~-~----~-­
Ethanol -page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. I 14 THURSDAY, MARCH 14, 1985 

Raise in activity fee rumored, disputed 
By CHRIS SKORCZ "I am just going on prior experi­StaffReporter ence of last year when the fee was raised from S30 to 535. Supposedly, 
The rumor currently circulating the stude"nt government is thinking about a possible increase in the man­about it, but that is all I know. They datory student activities fee con­are simply kicking the idea around tains no truth, according to Father right now. This is about the time of David Tyson, vice president for stu­year that it was increased last year," dent affairs. Novas said. 
"Asofnow, it.is nothing more than The increase, if made, would be a rumor. Since the Board ofTrustees "somewhere in the neighborhood of approves the budget and all in­$I 5 to (a_ s;ofee)." creases, this won't be acted upon un­The idea behind the proposed in­til they meet in May if it is acted crease, according to Novas, is to give upon at all," said Tyson. each class more money in order to 
The rumor came to the attention help them centralize activities, of AI Novas, student government moving them away from the dorms. treasurer, who is responsible for Novas addedd that any such pro-overseeing all transactions and must approve them if they pass through see RUMOR, page 5 student ~overnment. 
SMC freshman to take part in St. Patrick's Day parade 
By DAN McCULLOUGH known in the South Side of NewsEdttor Chicago," she said. Brennan is from Ill winds for Reagan Joliet, Ill. 
Strong winds in Washington ruffle President Later, the president's temper was ruffled as
Erin Anne Brennan, a freshman at "It's really an honor," said Bren­
Reagan's hairas he says goodbye to Egyptian Presi-Congress blew away his budget proposals. Story 
Saint Mary's College, has been selec· nan. She had previously had plans to 
dent Hosni Mubarak Tuesday at the White House. below.
ted as a member of the Queen's go to Daytona Beach, Florida for court for the annual Chicago Saint spring break, she said. "I had to Patrick's Day parade being held this weigh the differences, but I decided year on State Street this Saturday, that this was more ofan honor." 
Committee rejects Reagan budget
March 16. Originally 500 to 600 women en­Brennan was chosen on Friday, tered the contest, which is held an­
March I, at the Grand Ballroom of nually. Photos are sent into the Associated Press get when specific appropriation and military spending and $40 billion in revenue bills come up. As such, it domestic spending cuts.
contest committee and 180 contes­WASHINGTON The Senate would not go to the president for his The issue was forced to a headtants are chosen to take part in the 
Budget Committee, after days of approval. when Sen. James Exon, D-Neb., in­
final judging at the Palmer House. chipping away at President Reagan's The panel's chairman, Sen. Pete troduced the entire Reagan S974
From there a panel of ap­1986 budget, voted outright yester­Domenici, R-N.M., said the vote billion fiscal budget as a substitute
proxiamately 30 judges narrow the 
day to kill the entire plan. "shouldn't surprise the president," for the plan the committee has beenfield down to 35, based on appear­
ance and poise, said Brennan. The The vote in a showdown en­given the committee's slashingofhis drafting and de~anded a vote. final eight are gineered by the Democratic proposed military buildup while ig­Domenici dismissed Exon's move
interviewed by the minority was 16 to 4. noring most of his appeals for as political posturing, but said,
judges, and then five women for the Reagan anticipated the defeat, tel­domestic spending cuts. "We've done the same every year forQueen's court are selected. 
ling a group of businessmen every president (putting the entire 
''I'm really excited about this," beforehand he was disappointed in The action was largely symbolic spendingplan to a single vote) so we said Brennan, who has attended the the committee's action. as Republicans leaders had never in­ought to do it this year for this presi­parade in Chicago before and said He added, "I have my veto pen troduced the president's spending dent." she was aware ofwhat itis all about. drawn" for any legislation raising plan and had no intention to do so. The chairman said he would vote 
On Saturday, the court will attend taxes and challenged Congress to The vote dramatized, however, against the president's budget and Mass at Holy Name Cathedral, attend "go ahead, make my day." the widespread lack of support in "it won't be any shock to him when a special brunch, and then take part What the committee is drafting, Congress for the Reagan plan, with he sees how few of us support his in the parade. however, is a budget to serve as a tar-its S30 billion in proposed increased package." 

Student Saver business slow despite low-cost merchandise 
Editor's Note: The following cated Notre Dame Hammes ident for student affairs, and Browne continues to support the dent store has made a profit in its stories are parts five and six ofa Bookstore's prices were above opened at the beginning of this store because it has "so much po­first year ofoperation. Student in­
those in town. Competing with semester on the second floor of
series on thefinancial workings tential." terest will expand in time, he 
the bookstore is not one of the • LaFortune Student Center.
of Notre Dame student govern­Rick Schimpf, store manager, said, which eventually will make student store's soals, but provid­
ment and several student or­As for performance thus far, said the store will be close to the business profitable. 
ingstudents with cheaper beauty Browne said the store is "doing
ganizations. Today's stories breaking even by the end of the 
see STORE, page 4 
aids and school supplies is. OK · they're not hurting."
examine the Student Saver gen· semester, but noted that no stu-
Student Senator Pat Browne
era/ store and the Irish Gardens. 

chaired a committee which pre-By BOB MUSSELMAN 
Irish Gardens provides service at a profit 
StaffReporter 

By FRANK LIPO pays good wages to student Irish Gardens and its popularityis 
The newcomer on the student­CopyEdttor workers, gives experience to stu­peaking. run business block, Student dent managers and provides a Novas said last year Irish Gar­Saver, exists on the premise that "What is our goal as Student needed service to students; all dens made approximately students want an outlet for Activities Board businesses? Pure important functions of student S6,000 in capital exptnditures, second-label and generic goods -services or pure profit?" These businesses, said Novas. including two new refrigerators on campus. And surveys con­questions were asked by Student "We see ourselves as a service and reflooring of the shop. Al­ducted by Student Body Presi­Body Treasurer AI Novas. to the community. We_ could though this large investment dent Rob Bertino indicate such a Novas said the businesses exist easily make S5,000-S6,000, but looks bad on the books because store can be successful. to serve students and make a that is not our goal," said Denise ofthe method ofaccounting used 
Thus far, it is at least surviving. profit -as far as covering all costs. Keller, one ofthree Irish Gardens by his office, Novas claimed it The store was the brainchild of Irish Gardens, the first student managers. She added that most see GARDENS, page 3
Bertino's survevs, which indi-business opened three years ago, people on campus are aware of 







The Observer Thursday, March 14, 1985 -page 2 



In Brief 
An Army helicopter on a routine training mission crashed at Fort Bragg, N.C., yesterday afternoon, killing all 12 pas­sengers and crew, an Army spokesman announced at the Pentagon. The helicopter, a new-model UH-60 Blackhawk, "crashed today at 
12:40 p.m." EST, said spokesman Lt. Col. Miguel Monteverde. "The aircraft was totally destroyed and all 12 crew and passengers were killed," the spokesman added. The spokesman said the helicopter was flying in formation with several other copters at the time ofthe crash "and an accident inves· ligation is already under way." ·AP 
Only low-alcohol beer will be sold to Detroit baseball fans this season at Tiger Stadium, where officials hope to promote a "more healthy atmosphere." At Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pirates fans can sit in a new "Family Section" ifthey want to avoid rowdy beer drinkers. And folks attending Denver Gold foot· ball games can't buy beer during much of the fourth quarter at Mile High Stadium. It's all part of a move by officials to try to control 
excessive drinking at sports events. "The management ofour arena.S has come to recognize that this has become an increasing problem over the years," said Frank Rose, vice president ofthe Harry Stevens Company that runs concessions at Shea Stadium, Fenway Park, Giants Stadium and Candlestick Park, as well as the Astrodome, Nas· sau Coliseum, Madison Square Garden and Byrne Arena. ·AP 
President Hosni Mubarakof Egypt said yester­day a "golden oportunity for peace" exists in the Middle East be· cause of the recent agreement between Jordan and the Palestine Uberation· Organization to jointly seek peace with Israel. Mubarak repeated his call for the United States to invite a joint Jordanian· Palestinian delegation to Washington "to explore the chances for peace." President Reagan made clear to Mubarak in a meeting Tues­day the United States won't agree now to such a meeting, but 
Mubarak said in a speech to the National Press Club yesterday that the United States "could render the cause of peace a great service" by agreeing to a meeting. ·AP 
Of Interest 
The Washington, D.C., Notre Dame club will sponsor an informal Career Night Tuesday, March 19. The reception will begin at 6 p.m. at 2175 Rayburn House, the office building at the 
U.S. Capitol. Students in the area during break are invited to come and talk with alumni in various fields. Questions can be directed to Gary Caruso, 202·225·7742. ·The Observer 
The Senior ClasSwill sponsor aSt. Patrick's Day party a little early this year. The party will be tonight beginning at 9 at Senior Bar. Digger Phelps' green carnations will be distributed free of charge.· The Observer 
Staying for break?Then you can celebrate the start of spring by attending the Spring Zoolebration party to benefit the Potawatomi Zoo. More than 80 local celebrities will host the fes· tivlties on Thursday, March 21, from 5:30 until 11 at the Marriott Ballroom in downtown South Bend. Dancing, hourly ra.ffie prizes, food and drink will be featured. Admission is $3.. The Observer 
The Notre Dame Concert Bandbegins a 10· 
city tour through Eastern states today and will return to the campus for the annual spring concert at 7:30p.m. March 24 in the Athletic and Convocation Center. The annual spring tours are usually sponsored by Notre Dame Alumni Clubs or friends ofthe University across the nation, and raise several thousand dollars in benefit pro· grams for local scholarship and other funds. -The Observer 
Measles vaccinations will be administered free of charge from l until 4 today at the Student Health. The service is being provided by the State Health Department. · The Observer 

Weather 
Come on!You knew it wouldn't last. A chance of snow flurries this afternoon with highs in the upper 30s. Clearing and cold tonight with lows in the low to mid 20s. Mostly sunny tomorrow with highs in the low 40s. ·AP 

The Observer-
The Obeerver (liSPS S99 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Obeerver Is published by the studentsof th., University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscription> may be purchaoed for S30 per year ( J20 per se· mcster) by writing The Obeerver, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
The Obeerver Is a member of The 
AMoclatrd Pre811. All reproduction 
rights ar.. reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor..............................Anne Long Design Assistant ........... Mark McLaughlin Layout Staff............................. Ruth Bennet Typesetters ....Jennifer Bigon. Tracy Brin· 
gardner News Editor........................... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor........................ Mary Heilmann Sports Copy Editor.................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor.........Cindy Boyle Viewpoint Layout.................... Dave Grote Features Copy Editor.. Margaret McCabe Features Layout............................ Tom Hall ND Day Editor......................Allee Gromer SMC Day Editor............... Toni Rutherford Ad Design .. Susan O"Hara, Kathy Krenzer Photographer ..................... Paul Pahoresky 



Being a good sport on that long-distance road trip 
It's been awhile since I've taken a long road-trip. 
Must be years. 

But with a 23-hour drive to Fort Lauderdale to look 
foward to, I can't help but reminisce ... 
The best road trips I've taken were definitely the ones 
I took when I was little. It could be I was just excited 
about the destination -but I tend to think it was all due 
to the agenda ofexcitingstuffwe did to pass the time on 
the way there. 

I've decided there's no reason why, a few years later, the be-a-good-sport road-trip spirit can't be recaptured for all. 
Hoping to come up with a complete things-to-do list for all those hitting the road for more than two hours over the next few days ... I searched and found hidden, deep in the corners ofmy memory, a dusty collection of activities for all. 
Of course the list required a little editing and updat­ing, unless you're interested in playing with Barbie and Skipper as you wait to reach your destination.-The fol· lowing list is thus suitable for both mature · and im· 
mature -audiences . . . 
depending on your mood, 
not your age group. 
•I see something you don't see and the color of it is ... 
This game requires more than one player. One person says, "I see something you don't see and the color of it is (for example) green." At this point, all other partici­pants scan the car and guess 

wildly, screaming out any objects that -appear remotely green. Each gues­ser gets five chances to figure out what the object is. Be prepared · tricky players may choose "something" as simple as green stuff under the driver's finger nails or 
the grass outside. 
•The name game song 

Remember this one? Sure it's been awhile· but ifyou can remember the melody, you can sing at least as many rounds of"The Name Game" as there are people in the car. Let me trigger your memory with a little example. Suppose the driver's name is Larry (it's good to keep the driver involved in the fun ... and it's fun to keep the driver awake), all will sing: 
Larry Larry bo·barry 
Banana-jana fo jarry 
Me and my mo-many . .. Larry! 
•Twenty Questions 

This game must have been invented for the intellec-
I · : Notre Dame and St. Marys 1
·-------------------------~
I ~/.. Starving Student I 1 Discount Coupon 10% OFF I 
I
I 
I 
I 
1
1
I 
Checks Welcome • Visa Mastercard • American Expres~I Layaways and Repair Service 
~-------------------------~ 
75% OFF ALL GREEN TICKET ITEMS 
Thursday, Friday, & Saturday 

1' 
Over 1,000 pieces of clothing at 75% 
off 

GOODWILL Eddy Street at Howard (across &om Nickles) Mon-Thurs 9-7 /Fri 9-8/Sat 9-5:30 

Margaret McCabe 
Assistant Accent Editor 
tual road tripper. 
Maybe not. 
At any rate, one person privately brings to mind a member of either a plant, animal or mineral category. Let's say he or she chooses a famous personality. The other· players are informed that "it" is an animal, then they are free to ask any yes/no questions that will help to reveal the identity of the animal. Be sure to start off with basic questions "Is it living? ... Is it human? ... Is it male?" (watch the questionee carefully on these last two, difficulty in answering them may be a clue -perhaps it's Idi Amine or Boy 


George). Only 20 questions can be asked and if you haven't guessed by that point, then you're forced to give up. 1pe questionee will tell you what he/she had in mind, all will groan, and the same person will maintain the position ofquestionee. 
•The License Plate Game 
This fun one must begin as soon as you leave campus. All those in the car or in your general vicinity of the bus must predict how many states will be found represented by license 
plates before the destination is reached. As I recall, this always leads to a few hot debates. Should provinces of Canada be included? . . . Can the numerous license plates on 18 wheelers be counted? ... Should wagers be made on the results? Whoever comes closest to the ac· tual number without going over is the winner. 
eOtbers A little imagination does won~ers when you're tired of watching fields pass by. Have a thumb fight tournament, count mile markers, point out to those around you what shapes you see in the clouds (you may surprised at what shapes have shown up since you were eight years old). 
I hope the ideas I have offered will inspire you to appoint yourself Road-Trip Director (much like a Cruise Director but sorry, no shuffie board), and make the hours you spend on the road just as much fun as the time you'll spend at the end of the road. If not ... well, then just enjoy the ride, drive carefully and • have a great break! 


14k Italian Gold and Sterling Silver I Chains, Charms, Bracelets & Rings 1 
Students and Staff must present this Coupon or ID I for 10 percent Off-Offer Good Through March 31, 1985 I 
Great American Jewelers I 
University Park Mall -On The Concourse I (directly in front of Browns Sporting Goods) ' 1 
(219) 277-3353 I 


The Observer Thursday, March 14, 1985 -page 3 

Ethanol plant ordered to stop odor within 6 weeks as protests continue 
By MIKE MILLEN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The unmistakable fragrance from the ethanol plant is not scheduled to disappear soon. In fact, last night's Public Works Committee meeting gave the New Energy Company a six-week period to install equip­ment worth over S l 50,000 to help lessen the odor. 
According to plant manager Bill Cribbs, "the odor stems from con­centrations of soluble solids and drying corn left with starch in it." Cribbs said he "hoped by the end of April to have solved the problems," although he admitted "I don't have a lot of confidence that the odor will completely go away." 
Few onlookers were happy with the council's decision to give New Energy six weeks to install the equipment. One local resident thought it unfair for the plant to operate "at our expense," suggest­ing the company cease production until it had stopped the smell. When asked how much per day New En­ergy would lose if temporarily closed, Cribbs responded "I don't have that information with me." 
Aside from the odor, Dr. George Plain, St. joseph County Health Offi­cer, said, "No literature shows any long term effect." Many residents disagreed, however, stating they had trouble both breathing and sleeping. 
In the beginning, many city coun­cil members were assured the Sl85 million plant would be odor-free. Councilman Tom Zakrzewski, chair­man of the Public Works Commit­tee, commented "everyone bought the plan because there would be no smell." Beverly Crone, council­woman, said she had "attended a meeting where they (New Energy) said there would be an odor, but an 
acceptable odor." 
The.. council attorney said there might be reasonable cause to sue the plant under the recently passed City Nuisance Ordinance. This action will not be considered until the next committee meeting on May 1, at which time the situation will be reassessed and the improvements will be discussed. 

Optimistic Bush meets Gorbachev 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW Vice President George Bush had a long meetingyes­terday with Mikhail Gorbachev and said President Reagan will meet with the new Soviet leader whenever the 
Kremlin is ready. 
"Ifthere ever was a time when we 
could move forward with progress 
in the last few years, I'd say that this 
is a good time for that," Bush told 
reporters after a session with Gor­
bachev that lasted nearly l% hours. 
The vice president said he had brought a letter from Reagan to Gor­bachev, but would not say whether it included an invitation to a summit meeting in the United States, as had been reported by U.S. officials in Washington. 
"I will not discuss the contents of 
it (the letter), but I believe the presi­dent does feel a meeting would be useful." 
Asked whether Rt:agan had an. early summit in mind, Bush replied: "I think he'd be ready as soon as the Soviet leadership would be." 
Bush and Gorbachev had met briefly earlier in the day. They shook hands and chatted for a moment during a reception that followed the funeral of President Konstantin Chernenko, who was buried yester­day in Red Square. 
In Washington, U.S. officials said Reagan had sent Gorbachev a per­sonal message proposing a super­power summit in the United States. Reagan said Monday he was "more than ready" to meet Gorbachev. 
Bush said before the meeting with Gorbachev that he came to Moscow bearimt "a message of peace" from 
The"Observer-

The independent stude.nt newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­plications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editors News Copy Editors 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editors Questions should be directed to Keith Har­
rison or Joe Murphy. Resumes and personal statements are due Thursday, March 14. 


Weekend Specials 
Friday: 'Bud Night' Kamikazee-75~ /shot 
Saturday: 'Greyhound Night' -90~ Snakebite-$1.00 
Monday: 'Mexican Night' Free Mexican Pizza Margaritas -$1.00 
Happy Hours daily: 11:00 -on•• 

MR. D's 
1516 N.lronwood 
~ 

South Bend RonDelaere 233-7747 
Reagan, who he said "has no greater hope and no greater goal" than peace with the Soviets. 
The vice president was accompa­nied by Secretary of State George Shultz. 
Gorbachev is the fourth Soviet leader to hold the top parry job since Reagan became president, but Reagan has not met any of them. In the past, the United States said a summit should be held only ifit was likely to produce concrete results. 
Yesterday, the White House an­nounced U.S. conditions had been relaxed and that Reagan would meet with Gorbachev if"it would be ben­eficial to the cause ofworld peace." 
It is the third time Bush has flown to Moscow to attend the funeral ofa Soviet leader. In 1982, he came for the funeral of Leonid Brezhnev, and in 1984, he attended the funeral of Yuri Andropov. Chernenko died Sunday. 
This time, Bush is meeting the first Kremlin leader of a new postwar generation. 

No, the police aren't after ducks now. The new home of these ducks is simply the result offlooding in Spring Bay, Ill., where the Illinois River crested this past weekend. Although the river is now slowlyfalling, the ducks may be aroundfor a little longer, as the water is still 8 feet above the 18-footflood stage. 



Gardens 
continuedfrom page 1 
"mistates activities." The expend­iture was necessary for the future of Irish Gardens, said Novas. 
Keller said Irish Gardens made 
$1,600 last semester, although 
budgeted to make Sl,OOO the en~ire 
year. The two weeks prior to 
Valentine's Day brought in $12,000 
worth ofsales, she said. 

··gQowe~ lfJn aQQ occagtoJtg'' Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway 23!-3354 


SENIORS 
Remember to make 
GRADUATION PLANS 
with parents for 
1.,_, Commencement Weekend May 17-19th
'FBI, MAY 17• Senior Class Cocktail ' Dance -ACC North Dome 
I 
s_'·'··· 
tickets required 
I SAT, MAY 18·Dinner/ACC North Dome SUN, MAY 19·Brunch No./So. Dining Halls 
Order form has been sent to parents. Must be returned to CCE by April 23rd 
Keller said the volume at Irish Gardens is "unbelievable" compared to most shops. For in­stance, most shops sell approxi­mately 600 roses per week. Irish Gardens sold approximately 3,200 for Valentine's Day alone. 
Irish Gardens is trying to become more efficient in as many areas as possible, said Keller. This year finan­cial statements were instituted to provide betterfinancial control. Kel­ler said the pricing policies are based on those statements. 
Seventeen students work at Irish Gardens, all ofwho must be eligible for financial aid. Keller said in the past certain workers carried the majority of the hours. Balancing the working hours has been another way ofimproving efficiency. 
"We have tried to cut the payroll 
by becoming more efficient," Keller 
noted. She added, however, that the 
nature of the work produces a large 
payroll. 
Quality control, operating 
procedures such as a new order sys­
tem, and an emphasis on efficiency 
have been more important than in 
other years, Keller said. 
There has•been an increase in 
prices because of the doubling of 
wholesale prices, but Irish Gardens 
maintains the lowest prices in town, 
said Keller. She was optimistic about 
the its future. 
"The year before last the prices 
were incredibly high," said Chuck 
VanRavenswaay, general business 
manager ofthe SAB, speakingoflrish 
Gardens. He said last year the prices 
were lowered to make it more 
reasonable. 
"We don't want to gouge the stu­
dents," VanRavenswaay said. 
Last year's ~apital expenditures 
and lowering of prices accounted 
for the fiscal loss at Irish Gardens, 
said VanRavenswaay. This year they 
were budgeted negatively Jl,OOO, 
which they already made up last se­
mester. Any money made this se­
mester will be channeled into other 
SAB endeavors. 
Irish Gardens "generates the most 
traffic, people utilize it the most," 
said VanRavenswaay. He said be­
cause of a uniform fiscal policy, ex­
penses and waste are coming under 
control, not just in Irish Gardens, 
but in all student businesses. He 
credited the manager's hard work 
with keeping prices down. 

---
-----------~~----------------~­
~----------------­
The Observer 

Sextuplet pregnancy rumor untrue 
KITTERY, Maine -A woman who received national publicity when she reported that she was expecting sextuplets despite her husband's vasectomy is not pregnant and is un­dergoing psychiatric care, her family said yesterday. " 
Richard Perham, 33, of Kittery, said his wife, Kim, 27, has been ad­mitted for observation to an institu­tion he declined to name. She is "very confused right now" and is un­der psychiatric care, he told Foster's Dally Democrat of Dover, N.H. 
Perham, mother of 2-year-old twins, said last week she became pregnant after her husband had a vasectomy, and that an ultrasound test at Portsmouth (N.H.) Hospital on Feb. 28 had shown she was preg­nant with two boys and four girls. 


Store 
continuedfrom page 1 
Schimpfsaid maintaining a full in­ventory has been difficult thus far, citing inadequate estimates of demand and problems with his sup­plier. Thest; difficulties should iron themselves out in time, he said. 
The store buys in cooperation with Broadmore Pharmacy. 
The store spent about S450 on shelving and other start-up supplies, Schimpf said, under the guidance of the Student Activities Board. Its op­eration comes under direct control ofSAB, as do all other student busi­nesses. 

The SAB second-quarter perfor­mance report shows S650 spent on the Student Saver last semester. No money was budgeted for its opera­tion. 
Student Body Treasurer AI Novas commented that the store will pres­ent a special problem for the trea­surer's office in that if at the end of the; year the store has S 10,000 in in­ventory, it will show up as an ex­pense, and therefore a loss. 
In their accounting system, a major purchase, for example a com­puter purchased last semester, is recognized as an outright expense. Most businesses consider such pur­chases, as well as current inventory, assets and depreciate their value, as usefulness is exhausted. 
"The general store is going to have a specific audit at the end of this year to find out how they're 

r doing," Novas said. 
r Increasing product lines has
, 
already been considered, but such r an action is considered premature r by the administration. The store cur­r rently stocks 76 items, according to
, 
Schimpf, and he would like to see r that number grow close to l00 in
,. 
~ 
the future. One item Schimpf did say will be appearing soon on his shelves is sun­
Perham's pregnancy came under question Tuesday when doctors disputed key parts ofher story. 
Doctors at the hospital said they had no record of an ultrasound test given Perham. 
Dr. William CusackofDover, who the Perhams said was her obstetrician, said in a statement yes­terday that he had seen Perham once in recent months, had not given her a pregnancy test, and that she was not under his care. 
Perham's father, Donald Perham of Rye, N.H., told the newspaper his daughter-in-law had an ultrasound test performed recently to deter­mine whether she was pregnant, but he said she "has not been pregnant and is not pregnant now." 
Both Perhams said they did not know what prompted her story be-
Novas' remarks on the subject men­tioned earlier in the series. 
"Definitely, we're here to make money," Schimpf said, but he stressed the store's commitment to student service. Prices are lower be­cause oflower initial cost associated with the type of products the store carries, he said, not due to a smaller markup in relation (o the bookstore. 
Father Francis Cafarelli, vice pres­ident of student services and the person in the administration with whom the store's operators deal di­rectly, said the store is "an enter­prise of student government," and his duty is to "monitor, see how it's doing." 
"Research indicated a need was there, but I can't vouch for that," Cafarelli said. So far, business seems to be good, he added, "but it takes a lot to be successful." 
"The store is approved, estab­cause she had no history of such incidents. Her husband said that when the story was publicized last week he "had no idea" that she wasn't pregnant and that apparently no one else knew either. She had gone alone to all her doctor's ap­pointments. 
An unidentified spokesman at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, where Perham had said she expected to deliver the sexmplets by Caesarean section onjuly 28, told the Boston Globe the hospital had no record ofher being transferred to the hospital. 
Since reports about her preg­nancy, Perham has been featured on two national television news shows, and a local milk company had of­fered to donate one year's supply to the family. 
lished; I want to see it have a chance to succeed," he said. 
All actions of the store are moni­tored by student affairs, and are governed by seven guidelines imposed on the store at its approval, Schimpf said. 
One such restriction is that the store cannot carry items the bookstore carries. Browne said the managers of the bookstore were asked if it would carry second-label items which surveys indicated stu­dents wanted. They declined. 
But according to both Schimpf and Browne, the bookstore has begun carrying such products. Schimpf regards this as a "pretty big inconsistency." 
"We've done nothing to com­pete," Schimpf said, and it "seems like they're trying to get our busi­ness." 



EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
,.__ 


tan lotion. 

SUMMERSCHOOL
r Schimpfs description of the store's goals follows closely on 

INCLEVELAND 
ATJOHNCARROLL UNIVERSITY SESSION! SEsSIONll 
June 17-July 19 July 22-August 22 
Gain one year in one summer! 
• 
Business • Mathematics 

• 
Computer Science • Natural Sciences 


8111.0 YOUR SIILLS 

• Education • R"eligious Studies 
TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 

• English • Social Sciences 
PREPARE FOR: 

• Humanities ... and others 
To get our Schedule of Summer Classes. 
mail coupon or call (216) 491-4318

LSAT 

John Carroll University

GMAT 

Director of Summer Sessions• University Heights, Ohio 44118 
• 
TESlN-TAPE' LIBRARY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT TESTS 

• 
HOMESTUOY PACKET 


I 
I 

, 
1 il:<lllll' I 
277-4135 

l , , 
I 
Addn-s.o.,

I ------------­
I 
. I \"il\' Sial<-Zip
I 

t±±±±:t:tjt::i:±±±t:tjt::i:::tj__.......____ ---.. ---------------------.. ­
Thursday, March 14, 1985-page 4 

The Observer/Paul Pahoresky
All the world's a stage 
SeniorMikeMcKayandjuniorPb{llipManningaudttionforthe play "We Won't Pay, We Won't Pay" in Notre Dame's Lab Theater. The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's theater department production is slatedfor a Mayperformance. 
* 
Happy Birthday Bambi! 
1f 


Today is Shawn Heffern's 21st 
Birthday. To keep him smiling, why notgive him a call at 283-1790 and give him your best wishes 1 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------­
-~-~----~~----~---~ 
The Observer Thursday, March 14, 1985 -page 5 
Search goes on for 'alcoholic' dog 
RAPID CilY, S.D. -He was a boozer and a womanizer who treated officers with disdain, but for thousands of enlisted men who trained to fly here duringWorld War II and the Korean War, Bismarck was a special dog. 
NowAir Force officials are search­
_, ing for his grave so they can build a monument to the Rapid City Air Base mascot, believed to be the only canine in base history to reach the rank of master sergeant. 
"This dog was terrific, and maybe just a tad overweight" because ofhis alcoholic binges, said Staff Sgt. Charli Kochmar, who started the search as historian for what is now called El­lsworth Air Force Base. 
"The reason his eyes were so sad is he was an alcoholic," said lit­tleman Carlson, who served at the base for nearly 20 years. 
According to Bismarck's obituary 
in the Sept. I4, I95I, issue of the 
base newspaper, The Outpost, the 
shaggy, black and white mutt even 
had a road on the base named after 
him. 

Bismarck was a clumsy-footed, homeless pup when he showed up at the base in I942. He became a pal of the men training "for the grim job ahead in World War II," the obituary said. "He lived with them, flew with them, slept with them and drank with them." 
"He hated officers. He'd only asso­ciate with enlisted men," the obituary said. 
"That's the truth," saidJim Ander­son, a retired Air Force colonel who was stationed at the base from I947 to I960. "And he never walked anywhere. He always rode." 
"There wasn't a single person on the base who didn't know him," An­derson s;Jid. "They'd give him a ride in their car. I would bet that in his 
entire life on the base, he didn'twalk 
more than I00yards cumulatively." 
"Ofcourse, downtown, he'd have 
to walk from bar to bar," he added. 
Bismarck also was a womanizer, 
and he didn't seem to care who 
knew it. 

He was busted to corporal once "for chasing a member of his oppo­site sex through the NCO mess club," his obituary said. However, he "rose to master sergeant again by time in grade." 
Bismarck was about I 0 years old when he died in September I95I. 
Kochmar, an II-year Air Force veteran and historian for the 28th Bombardment Wing, said she hopes to find the grave and have a monu­ment erected in time for the 35than­niversary of Bismarck's death in 
I986. 

Carlson said he vaguely recalls the 
burial site, "I think on the south end 
ofthe main runway. They had quite a 
ceremony," he added. 


Indiana man killed in plane crash 
Associated Press 
ANGOLA, Ind. -An Indianapolis !nan died and four others were criti­cally injured in the crash last night of a single-engine plane near Angola. 
The Cherokee six-passenger plane went down near the Tri State MJJnicipal Airport about 5 miles west of Angola at about 6:30 p.m. 
after the pilot reported icing prob­lems, said Indiana State Trooper Gary Robbins. 
Carter Tharp, 66, of Indianapolis was pronounced dead at Cameron Hospital in Angola, Robbins said. 
Tharp was a passenger in the plane flown by Joseph Miller Jr., 52, also of Indianapolis, who police said operates a charter service. 


BAGS PLUS••• 
We specialize in: Totes Roll bags Luggage Belts Beach Bags Leather Handbags 
all at factory outlet prices ! 
$3.00 OFF COUPON! 
good on Olympic 3-way backpack or MonsacTote Located in Buyer's Marketplace 277-0474 
Robbins said police had not been able to confirm late last night whe­ther the flight, enroute from lansing, Mich., to Indianapolis, was char­tered. 
Miller was taken to Parkview Hospital in Fort Wayne, where he was listed in critical conditionwith a broken back. 
University requirements 
Present curriculum 
Time to complete requirement 

Proposed curriculum 

Eng. Comp./Sem. (1 sem. ea.) Eng. Comp./Sem. (1 sem. ea.) 
Math (2 sem.) 
Math (2 sem.) 
P.E. 
or ROTC (2 sem.) 

P.E. 
or ROTC (2 sem.) 


Hist./Soc. Sci. (1 sem.) Hist./Soc. Sci_ (2 sem.) 
Science (2 sem.) Science (2 sem.) 
Philosophy (2 sem.) Philosophy (2 sem.) 
Theology (2 sem.) Theology (2 sem.) 
Fine Arts/Lit. (1 sem.) 
Correction: The University Re­quirements· graphic in yester­day's issue did not appear cor· rectly. It is reprinted above. 
Wire Service Guild rejects UPI wage freeze 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Wire Ser­vice Guild said yesterday it has rejected a proposal by United Press International for an IS-month wage freeze and other concessions by employees ofthe news service. 
The union, which represents 
said the company made itsproposals 
Tuesday at a meeting in Washington 
with Guild president William Mor­
rissey and secretary-treasurer Dan 
Carmichael. 

A union statement said Morrissey 
and Carmichael called the UPI pro­
posal"entirely unacceptable." 
The union officers agreed to relay the proposal to members of the union's executive committee and the UPI national committee, the statement said, "but told UPI to get its own house in order before again asking employees to give up wages and benefits." 

David Wickenden, UPI general manager for information, said he had no comment on the Guild state­ment. 
The union said the company pro­
posal was made by Luis Nogales, UPI 
president and chief executive offi­
cer, and company representatives 
Ray Wechsler and Bobby Ray Miller. 
According to the Guild, UPI man­
agement proposed to continue cur­
rent, reduced pay levels -which are 
Daytona -, 7 pm LaFortune Little Theatre 

Fresh_ Junior Senior 
Observer Graphic Source: Office of the Provost 


85 percent of normal wages -for an 
additional IS months, until October 
I986. 
In addition to the new wage freeze request, the union said, UPI proposed curbs on staff overtime, a 25 percent cutback in vacation time, a 50 percent cut in "personal days" or holidays, a freeze on audio fees and differentials, and a reduction in the reimbursement rate for use of personal cars on company assign­ments. 
The Guild said UPI also proposed 
continuing a I 0 percent penalty for 
sick leave, which had been sched­
uled to expire April I5, and: restric­
tions on payments for employee 
transfers. 




Rumor 
continuedfrom page 1 
posal would have to originate with a 
student and be acted upon by the 
senate in order to be considered by 
Tyson. He noted, however, that he 
was unsure about what would hap­
penin the event ofan administration 
proposal. 
"It was mentioned that a lot of 
dorms had raised their hall taxes but 
those are completely different," 
Novas noted, since hall taxes 
originate with the hall presidents. 
"If the increase is made official, you don't have a choice. You. must pay it since it is part ofyour tuition. The only way students can respond ifthey are upset by the raise is to try to get a referundum going to protest it," he said. 
"I would not be surprised if it were proposed," Novas concluded. 
Student Body Vice President Cathy David was not aware of the rumor. 
"As far as I know it is nothingmore than a rumor. There is nothing at all positive or definite. Student govern­ment won't propose such a change but maybe the SAB will propose an increase so they can sponsor more activities," she said. 
A spokesperson for Joni Neal, director of student activities, said she was unaware of any such in­crease or even the proposal ofan in­crease in the fee. 


r 
~ 
,r 
, 
~ ~ 
r 
r 
r 
, ~ 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
f
, 
r 
,r r 
,.. r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
! r 
~ 
I 
r 
r 
r 
,I 

~i~~~_()__i_ll__t_________________Th_urs-da-y,_M~-ch_l_4,_19-85--pa-ge-6 
The course of evolution and the 'macho' man 
In my last article for The Observer, I pre­sented four stories which portrayed male violence towards women. Ever the op­timist, I did not dream that this would provoke yet another story in the same genre! It seems I badly underestimated the sick undercurrent in the Notre Dame male culture. 
Shortly after my essay appeared, I received a very nasty hard-core por­nographic picture and an advertisement designed to humiliate me as a woman. The sender, apparently unable to cope with 
Ann Pettifer 

guest column 
ideas that confronted his prejudices and 
neurotic predellctions, struck obscenely 
and anonymously · the modus operandi of 
the coward from time immemorial. 

In her Sophomore literary Festival 
lecture, Catholic author, Mary Gordon, 
told of having received death threats after 
the publication of her novels, "Final Pay­
ments", and "The Company of Women." I 
found this revelation mind-boggling, for I 
had read both books and could not see 
how the themes and ideas that they con­
tained could possible incite such irrational 
responses. I shared my incredulity with a 
theologian friend · how could these intelli­
gent novels activate the demons of hate 
and violence 1wanted to know. Without a 
moment's hesitation, my friend said she could see why crazy, reactionary Catholics would find the books threatening. It had to do, she pointed out, with Gordon's ex­traordinary accuracy in naming the pat­hological elements in Roman Catholicism. 
This pathology, which shares many features with fascism, includes an obses­sion with authority and hierarchy, male dominance and a fierce repression ofaffec­tive feellngs. However, the janus face of dominance is insecurity and, in extreme cases, paranoia. As dominant Roman Cath­olic males are challenged by women, a classic repressive/aggressive response is triggered and swift action is taken to bring these women back into llne. 
The pornographic picture which I received was just a more barbaric variety of the kind of sexual harassment that the Vatican Sacred Congregation for Secular and Sacred Institutes is presently directing at twenty-four nuns in this country. These women have shaken the Roman patriarchy 
to its foundations by calling for more in­
formed discussion on abortion. They are 
particularly concerned to see abortion 
situated in its social context and to analyze 
abortion as a symptom ofa culture charac­
terized by male aggression and female 
powerlessness. For their pains, these wo­
men have been threatened with expulsion 
from their communities if they refuse to 
recant. The Vatican's paranoid reflex is 
making our church the laughing stock of 
civilized society. 
So what is to be done? Do women stand a 
chance ofconverting these obdurate, silly, 
insecure men? The odds are dismal. My 
money is on evolution. I have been reading 
a lovely book, "On Becoming Human," by 
anthropologist Nancy Makepeace Tanner. 
Ifher thesis is on target, we can expect that 
the chest-beating male will be eliminated 
from the gene-pool through sexual 
deadend. His culture has given us all that is 
destructive in our world, from nuclear 
weaponry to capitaiist pillage. Ifour poor planet is to survive, we shall have to evolve values that are closer to the ethic of stew­ardship which jesus preached. 
A very long time ago, our wiley female 
hominid ancestors appear to have pulled 
the species up the evolutionary ladder 
when they developed a more complex gat· 
bering culture in contradistinction to the 
cruder, male hunting culture. Through 
sexual selection, Tanner says, the female 
also helped to reduce male primatecharac-. 
teristics,like large canines: 'Iffemales were 
choosing to copulate with the sociable 
males, ones who did not bear large canine 
"fighting teeth" at them ·thensexual selec­
tion supported the reduction of male 
canines.' 
There were already signs that women are beginning to ignore dominant, macho males as potential sexual partners. Self­respecting females are increasingly aware that they cannot afford relationships with men who cannot handle equality. As the patriarchal family becomes more and more disfunctional, the patriarchal male, with his high testosterone level, will be left braying with frustration as the female selects a less aggressive, more humane sort of chap. In her search for a new family model, it will be a discipleship of equality in domestic chores, in child rearing and in the civil order that will count most with the culturally evolVing female. 
Ann Pettifer is an alumna of the Uni­versity ofNotre Dame. 



The Russian bear is just wearing new clothes 
This week's top news story is the death ofSoviet leader Konstantin Chernenko, 73, after a lengthy bout with emphysema and assorted other serious ailments. Mikhail 
John Perez 

just wondering 
Gorbachev, a 54-year-old lawyer, was named to succeed him. 
Chernenko's rule, lasting a mere 13 months, has been described by many Kremlin watchers as a spectacular failure. The Soviet Union's agricultural sector missed all its producti.on quotas by a wide margin, domestic political dissent is at an all-time high, and the Soviets are about to begin the latest round ofdisarmament talks with the United States with nary a bargain­ing chip. 
Even as Chernenko's grave is still fresh, we must stop and think about how this latest leadership change will affect us-USSR relations, and every one ofus in turn. What should we expect from the new Gor­bachev administration? Will we be better off after this latest round of Kremlin Roulette? 
In a visit to Great Britain last December, Gorbachev stunned western observers by his most un-Sovietlike behavior. Instead of parroting the usual "promote world revo­lution" slogans and making a spectacle by visiting Karl Marx's grave, he made the rounds of London's cocktail party circuit acting like a sophisticated party animal. jokes, not propaganda, were his favorite topic ofconversation. 
Does this signal a major breakthrough in the Cold War of the superpowers? In all probability, no. Said Britain Foreign Affairs Committee chairman Sir Anthony Ker­shaw: "He's more dangerous because he's better up to the job than any of the old geezers." 
In an eradominated by rapid technologi­cal change, Gorbachev's apparent ability to be equally at ease with computers and combines, plus the fact that most of Mos­cow's most influential agencies are staffed 



Problem-solving must be done nonviolently 
The number ofincidents involving violence as an acceptable means of resolving conflict seem to be growing daily throughout the country. Some people, following. in the footsteps of our esteemed government and seemingly dissatisfied with the status quo, have decided that the best way to solve their problems is by taking matters into their own hands. This has. resulted in numerous out­rageous acts ofviolence across the country.. 
However, just because our government uses violence to solve its problems does not 
Michael Froning 
guest column 
mean we should. Rather, we should urge our government to avoid using violence as an ac­ceptable method for solving problems or changing the status quo. Violence breeds only violence, not peaceful or fruitful results. 
The tendency to use violence as an accep­table means of resolVing conflict has taken root in such incidents as the bombingofabor­tion clinics across America And in Pennsylva­nia, a pastor allied with the Denominational Ministry Strategy, a social actiVist group whicp promotes violence as a means towards social justice, has been working with a local group of militant labor leaders in harassing local executives in his church in an attempt to gain employment for the many unemployed people in his town. 
But perhaps the most exploited incident has been the shooting offour black youths on a New York subway by Bernhard Goetz. When asked by the youths for five dollars, Goetz reportedly replied, "I have five dollars for each ofyou" and proceeded to shoot all four. 
But what has prompted these acts of Vio­lence? In the past, violence as an acceptable means of resolving conflict has not been so widespread, but these incidents seem to be occurring more and more frequently. The rea­son for this is that our government, specifi­cally the Reagan administration, has been acting as a role model for our citizens. 
The present administrationconsistently has used force or violence as a method of problem-solving throughout the last four years. Many citizens of this country, in turn, have grown so accustomed to it that they are now following the government's lead and using violence to solve many of their prob­lems. It is easy to see how the actions of our governmem have influenced some Americans because tl1ere have been many acts of vio­
lence or force by the government, and all have 
been deemed acceptable by the Reagan ad­
ministration. 
The most obvious example of the govern­ment's use of violence is the invasion of Grenada. Without warning, official declara­tion ofwar or even sufficient provocation, the United States simply invaded Grenada and ousted the government there. 
The United States claims the people of 
Grenada to be better off now than they were 
before the invasion. This is fine ifone believes 
in our government's definition of "better" or 
the old Machiavellian standard that the ends 
justify the means. But ifthis is true, why don't 
we just shoot everyone who commits a crime? 
Ifwe could get rid ofall the criminals, it would 
not matter how we would do it, right? I think, 
however, that most people, especially 
Americans, realize how ludicrous these 
primitive ideologies are and recognize that 
we must find other methods in the non­
violent realm to deal with such problems. 
Another classic example of the administra­tion's use of violence is the aid we give the contras in Nicaragua. The United States aids a group of rebels attempting to overthrow, by force, the legitimate government in Nicaragua. The reason? Our government does not like the political affiliations of the Nicaraguan government. The message clearly states that if you do not like the situation, change the rules to suit your needs, which is what people like Bernhard Goetz seem to be doing. 
But is this the proper attitude for our gov­
ernment or for the citizens of this country to 
take? I ~hink not. Using violence as a means to 
solve problems is not only unnacceptable, but 
it is also unpractical. Violence only breeds vio­
lence. It does not, and will not, breed peace or 
solutions to a problem. This is not to say that 
Violence is not unavoidable at certain times · 
like ifone is attacked by someone or a country 
has war declared on it by another country · 
but there are better ways to solve problems. 
The idea of communication and mutual concession is one which seems to work well in resolving conflicts. Unfortunately, our gov­ernment does not do much of either but in­stead resorts to the ends justify the means theory. We, as Americans and responsible human beings, have a duty to encourage' our government and ourselves not to resort to violence when we have a problem to solve but to try and solve it through peaceful methods. Peaceful methods can and will bring about the best results. 
Michael Froning is a freshman in the Col­lege ofA.rts and Letters atNotre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

by similar whiz kids, probably means that a new Soviet diplomatic/economic/military onslaught on the rest of the world is close at hand. The Russian Bear is alive and well, he is just wearing different clothes. 
A dead giveaway of the Soviet Union's intentions was its decision to begin the long-delayed Geneva arms talks with the United States as scheduled Tuesday. Or­dinarily, one would expect the death of a head ofstate to disrupt such a meeting, but the Soviets' top priority is to obtain arms 
concessions from the United States. The fu. neral and memorial ceremonies will just have to wait. 
When the arms talks broke off last year, the Soviets had the upper hand. Their SS-20 ICBM's seemed to drive an invincible wedge between the Eastern Bloc and the western allies. Today, after deployment of the Pershing II intermediate range missile, the advanced cruise missile and the B-1 B bomber, the nuclear balance ofpower has once again shifted in favor of the U.S. side. The Soviet Union has its back to the wall, and the Strategic Defense Initiative (Star Wars program) looms like a sword over 
their heads. They are in trouble, and they know it. 
Another major problem for the Soviets is their generally poor economic condition. Their tattered economy makes them a second class superpower· one without the clout to get their message across. Any sort of economic reform will require dealing with the West. This, of course, will neces­sitate an appearance of "niceness" toward the United States and its allies. 
In summary, do not expect anything new. The players may be different, they may seem dashing and daring and new, but the coaches and the game remain the same. We must not forget that the East and West are based on fundamentally different ideas, ideas shaped and defined by both brains and bloodshed, and as such are unlikely to change significantly. Look at all the pomp and ceremony as just "entertainment" · a mask that merely hides the never-ending state of"business as usual." 
john Perez is a junior accounting major at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

r 
~ 


----------------~----------------~-~--., 
"ieVVP-~O~i~n~t~-------------------------------------------Th_u_r_sd_a~y~,M--~_ch__1_4,_1_9_B_S__p~a~g~e__7 


P.O.Box:Q 
Acknowledging hard 
work and dedication 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is written to acknowledge the 
hard work and dedication of four women ­
Carrie Bates, Laura Daugherty, Ruth Kaiser 
and Mary Beth Schueth. 
These four seniors of the Notre Dame Wo­
men's Basketball team are largely responsible 
for the tremendous progress of the program 
since their freshman season. The leadership, 
determination, perseverance and dedication 
these women display have, undoubtedly, in­
spired the younger members of the squad to 
aspire to the high standards of performance 
these seniors have demonstrated each time 
they are on the court. 
Carrie, Laura, Ruth and Mary Beth should be proud of the fine reputation they have built for this program. They are exemplary Notre Dame student-athletes, both on and off the court. 
Stephanie A. Korcbeck Atlanta, Georgia 

Domagalski was right in his senate actions 
Dear Editor: 
Sophomore Class PresidentJim Domagalski 
should be applauded for protecting the in­
tegrity ofthe Student Senate bywalking out of 
the recent meeting. The issue of reconstruc­
ting the senate is an important one which will 
affect the organization ofstudent government 
for the next few years, and it should not be 
determined by a debatable vote. 
The fact that the proxy votes were non­
written votes does not allow for any proofof 
those votes. In addition, the proxy were given 
to a non-voting members ofthe senate, which 
is a questionable procedure. Student Body 
Vice President Cathy David has a different 
constituency than student senate member Mike Quinn and, therefore, he should not be voting for her. 
As it turned out, Senator Paul Healy had left a written proxy which did not count for a quorum, so the vote could not have passed anyway. But the fact that the senate attempted to pass this measure under uncertain circum­stances indicates that the restructuring pro­posal has been rushed and that several aspects of the policy remain vague, as some of the voting members admitted. 
Because of the importance of this issue, Domagalski's move might spur further ex­amination of the proposal, or at least ensure that the policy is passed by an unquestionable quorum of the senate. 
Ellen McDonald 
Liza McAndrews 
Notre Dame sophomores 

The military has been utilized irresponsibly 
Dear Editor: 
The controversy raised by the recent letter of Fausto Nolasco centers on the question of whether or not ROTC should be on the Notre Dame campus at all. Nolasco obviously struck a nerve in those who defend the presence of ROTC here. Responses to his letter illustrate an archaic and dangerous view ofthe role our conventional forces, like the Rangers or the Marines, have played in defending "our na­tional security" or in "preserving peace among the nations." 
Recent history reveals all too well that forces, such as those Rangers shown in Mon­day's issue ofThe Observer, which have been training in Mishawaka have been used to thwart nationalistic movements in small countries which pose no real threat to our na­tiona! security (Guatemala in 1954, Cuba in 1962, the Dominican Republic in 1965, Viet­nam in the 1960's and '70s and Grenada in 1983). Such aggresive actions by these forces ofours do nothing more than protect isolated 
U.S. business interests and gloss over the fact that the root ofsuch movements lie not in in­ternational communism, but in the reality of the extreme poverty and injustice plaguing many regions ofthe world. It is highly unlikely that our Armed Forces will be defending our country's natural borders because of the vast nuclear arsenal we now possess. 
In considering all ofthis, again the question 
must be asked -does ROTC belong on the 
campus ofa Catholic university such as Notre 
Dame? When taking the Gospels into consid­eration, the message is obvious: "Love one an­other, love your enemies, love your neighbor as you love yourself." Our Catholic faith calls us to make a radical stand for life. When con­. sideriing what the military is involved in, it ap­pears evident that one's faith necessarily becomes conformed as -a member of the mili­
tary. 
Noltre Dame should be encouraging us to be peacemakers-rather than training us for an un­just war. Notre Dame should be challenging us to be prophets of peace of the modern world where the choice is between non­violence or non-existence. Instead, Notre Dame conforms its Catholic character with the fallacy that a Christian education will produce a more Christian soldier when, in fact, due to the reality of the American mili­tary institution, the concept ofa Christian sol­dier is a contradiction in terms. It is true 
that Sacred Heart Church's south entrance is engraved with the message "God, Country and Notre Dame." Those who use the message to justify the presence of· ROTC on campus seem to have the order of the dictum confused. 
Peter Carter Chuck Rub/in NotreDame students 
Everett's ideas show a poor understanding 
Dear Editor: 
Frederick Everett's recent letter to The 
Observer demonstrates a lack of understand­
ing regarding the highly complex nature of 
homosexuality causality and morality, as well 
as an ignorance ofthe Roman Catholic's views 
on homosexuality. 
Everett's indignation over Notre Dame's ap­parent support of homosexuality would seem to indicate that he believes homosexuality is a sin. This is not Roman Catholic teaching. Ask any orthodox theologian.Ask any bishop. Ask the pope. They will all tell you that while homosexual acts are to be considered im­moral-a homosexual orientation is not, ofit­self, sinful. And neither of these "poisonous tapes" advocates homosexual activity. 
Roman Catholics believe that divine revela­tion comes through holy scripture and through sacred tradition. It might be nice if the scriptures were as clear in their con­demnation of homosexuality as Everett believes them to be but, alas, there is not a single, unambiguous text in either testament which condemns homosexuality as a condi­tion. A check ofcurrent moral theology texts would have revealed this. 
Concerning sacred tradition, in 1976 the Roman Catholic bishops of the United States issued a pastoral letter entitled, "To live as Christ Jesus" in . which they stated: "Homosexuals, like everyone else, should not suffer from prejudice against their basic human rights. They have a right to respect, friendship and justice. They should have an 
active role in the Christian community." Im­agine that -"an active role in the Christian community." It almost sounds asifthe bishops are supporting homosexuality or, at least, homosexuals. They C!Ven went as far as to say 

that homosexuals were worthy of friendship 
and respect. And thatwas nearly ten years ago. 
Insofar as what the bishops have said above 
is authentic, Catholic teaching, one should 
not be surprised to find a Catholic university 
in the business of supporting it -maybe even 
promulgating it. 
Let me propose the possibility that the Holy 
Spirit has not yet revealed all of the 
"supernatural truths" about homosexuality, 
or any other issue for that matter. The prob­
lem with believing that you possess the whole 
truth is that you stop searching for it, as did 
the churchman who based their condemna­
tion of Galileo on the truth of the scriptures 
which they thought they possessed. 
So perhaps before we take our Christian heritage seriously, we ought to find out what it is. I always thought it was about being charitable, compassionate, merciful and avoiding self-righteousness. 
Brother Michael Dini, E.S.C. Brownson Hall 
ND cheerleaders were 
merely 'in attendance' 
Dear Editor: 
At the Dayton game last Saturday, we noticed late in the first half that our cheer­leaders were in attendance. We say "in atten­dance" because they were little more than that. They were noticeably inactive; none of us saw them perform even one cheer. 
Ofcourse, this situation should be put inper­spective before we wrongfully criticize them. The cheerleaders were flown to and from the game for free and had one of the best spots from which to view the game. With these piti­ful accommodations, who could honestly ex­pect them to cheer? Conversely, we rented a car to get to Dayton, bought scalped tickets (which we might add were in the nosebleed region of the arena), jammed six guys in a 
single room in a nearby tleabag motel and screamed our lungs out. We also stood for the entire game surrounded by seated Dayton fans. The most excited we saw our cheer­leaders become was at the bars Friday and Sat­urday nights. 
It is time the cheerleadersearn theirkeep.lf they are not going to cheer, why don't they just do us all a favor and stay home instead of looking ridiculous on the sidelines? 
Mike Schreder Dan McKeever Tom Halpin DaveHipp Pangborn Hall 
Christian duty involves helping, not judging 
Dear Editor: 
This is in response to Frederick Everett's • letter concerning the Counseline's tape dealing with lesbianism. Afier reading his comments and listening to the tape ourselves, we find a few ofhis basic premises wrong. 
First of all, just because Notre Dame/Saint 
Mary's is a Catholic community does not 
mean that all of the individuals attending 
these schools are Catholic. This mistaken 
belief is the basis of the majority of Everett's 
argument. They simply say that it is wrong to 
practice homosexuality. This is also said about -heterosexual premarital sex and all inter­course using an artificial contraceptive. 
Second, although the speaker says that she personally does not feel lesbianism is im­moral, the tape stresses the viewpoint that no individual can tell another what is right or wrong. It is your own choice. 
Finally, three-quarters ofthe tape dealswith raising the homosexual's self-esteem. It is not promoting lesbianism. Contrary to Everett's interpretation of the tape's message as "if it feels good, do it," the tape says to do what feels best for you, emotionally and physically. 
Homosexuals are not freaks. They need our understanding, not the pig-headed con­demnation Everett displays. Afier all, our Christian duty is to help, not to judge. 
Toni Rutherford Lorri Wright SaintMary's College 

Tom Mowle's pining is not unprecedented 
Dear Editor: 
Tom Mowle pines in his afi1'iety over meat­less Fridays, but he does not pine alone. Every year, someone takes up the cudgel anew on our behalf, to construct a rationale with a twist for students to be served meat during Lent. This year, we have been counseled of our "right to sin." 
It is unclear to me whether Mowle really believes that breaking the abstinence con­stitutes a sin since he obfuscates this point with his charming humor. But, in case he does, I should be interested to know whether he claims a right to expect the dining halls to abet us in sin. Perhaps he will spare the space in ,1 one of his columns to instruct us in more 
, 

subtle detail regarding this right -how one 
1 

ought to exercise it and so on. It certainly 
'1 

would make captivating reading. Until then, I ~,continue to wonder why this ancient Church discipline causes so many people such great anguish. 
I fail to understand how any mature adult 
,

could find such major difficulties in such a minor inconvenience. Mowle, for example, 1 seems to take it for granted that the adminis­1
,

tration has foul play in mind by adhering to this church canon. His point of \oiew is not '1 unique, ofcourse (although his delightful arti­1 cle, with such merry little arguments, has pro-. 1 vided me with more entertainingreading than ,
,

anyone else's), but it is one that I have never quite understood. 
His suggestion that the administration's en­forcement of the abstinence is designed to keep the students immature is so positively breathtaking that it transcends my ability to formulate a civilized response. As for the charge of "religious djscrimination," I have never known an open-minded non-Catholic who claimed to suffer from , Catholic chauvinism simply because the dining halls failed the abstinence rule as Mowle feels, then I might respectfully request, for the peace of those of us who are able to tolerate it, that they find some way to break it if tl1ey simply rriust but to break it noiselessly. 
Richard Flint Notre Dame graduate student 


Policy 
Viewpoint would like to bear from 
.,

you. If you would like to respond to 
..,

something you've read in The Observer, 
,

why not write a letter to the editor. Let­ters should be well-written, typed, no more than 250 words in length and must bear the signature of the author. Letters which are not signed by the au­thor will not be published. 
But letters are not the only way to voice your opinion in The Observer, Viewpoint also accepts guest columns. Guest columns should be well-written, typed, no more than 500 words in length and must bear the signature of the au­thor. A guest column, unlike letter to the 
editor, should notbe a direct response to another editorial. 
The Observer reserves the right to edit all material submitted to the Viewpoint departmentforpublication. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in·Chief. . Bob Vonderheide Managtng Editor . . ..... Mark Worscheh News Editor . . . ... Sarah Hamilton News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Edttor . . Anne Monastyrski Sports Edttor... . Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor . . _..... Dave Grote Features Editor . . Mary Healy Photo Editor. . ... Pete Laches 

Department Managers 
Business Manager..... _..... Dave Taiclet Con troffer ..............Dave Stephenitch Advertising Manager . . ... Anne Culligan Circulation Manager. . . ...... Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager. . . . . .. Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. . .. Chris Bowler Project Manager . . . ..... Amy Stephan 
Founded November 3, 1966 






Accent 
Thursday, March 14, 1985-page 8 
What stands between you . .. and the doors to law school? 
process will not begin until senior 
year, juniors can get a headstart on their competition for admission 
Andi Schnack 
features staff writer 
A
spots by sending for law school bulletins and catalogs over the s students put the finishing ning in 1984. The LSAT percentile summer. This allows enough time touches on spring break plans, dropped to 33.5 while the GPA to sift through all the information one can tell that spring is around remained constant at 3.2. and find the schools that best meet the corner. Soon, the main con­Of the I I 0 students taking the the student's needs. cerns will be room picks and sum· exam, 39 were taking it for the Along with the busy work of mer jobs. But, for juniors interested second time. Twenty-seven of those collecting information, time should in attending law sch<x>l, some who ret<x>k the test this past fall be spent seriously considering the thought ought to be given to start­bettered their previous scores by an reasons behind your desire to go to Vic Guarino/The Observer 
The pretentious doors ofthe law 
ing the application process. average of 3.21 additional points. law school. What is really motivat-students on the LSAT as compared 
Although procrastination comes Most Notre Dame students con­ing you to head in that direction? school may spark a fleeting to the national average of 30.5. She in all shapes and sizes in a student's sidering law school apply to 'i or Have you always wanted to be a curiousity as to what lies beyond adds that 32 percent of those who life, the search for g<xld law schools more schools to increase the lawyer? Are you simply trying to andfurthermore, what it would take the test over again after par­to apply to shoull.l not be put off chances of being accepted by a make your parents happy? Will it take to be a student oflaw. At left, ticipating in the Kaplan course raise 
until the last minute. Even spring of 
......~· their scores by H whole points.
a view ofthe law library and in the 
one's junior year is not too early to Obviously, actually taking the
lower left corner, two students 
.. illi'~~ J, . 14 
begin asking professors for recom­LSATis a vital step in the process of
apparently "camped out" and
mendations -the earlier the better. applying to law school. As seen in
~--... working dil{gently. 
By the time junior year rolls the Kaplan statistics, preparation around, you bopefu/~y have an idea 
prior to the test seems to indicate a ofwhat you'd like to be doing after "Smart applicants will start collect­higher score. you graduate from Notre Dame. ing recommendations and will 
Craig Douglass, a senior fromLaw school is an option that can cultivate professors who are poten­Keenan Hall, advises applicants tor launch a student toward one ofa tial recommenders early on," says law schools to take time and putr variety of professions, not necessar­Yao. "It's not a decision to be made some effort into the applications.

ily practicing law. Only one-third of in the last semester in college." 
"You're selling yourself in yourthose who graduate from law Among the self-help books application," says Douglass, "so youschool go on to practice law. available for those interested in should try to make it say the mostNotre Dame graduates do fairly applying to law school, "Packaging" good about yourself." He also well in comparison with the na­Vic Guarino/The Observer encourages students to emphasize recommends that you have some­tional averages of their peers apply­good school. Over one-halfofthe help you in the career you desire? their strong points and boost the one professional, such as a profes­ing to law school. This has been graduates who applied last year Law school is a very important weak points. Keying in on extracur­sor,look over the application toattributed to the solid liberal arts were accepted by at least one of step in one's future. The expense riculars will help those with a lack­make sure it's done right.

background that the University their choices. and work involved are only luster GPA or LSAT score. 
r Another suggestion Douglass 
provides. Some students considering law worthwhile if it's what you want to Yao strongly recommends that 
r makes is to make sure you apply to
This year, national statistics from school often change their minds do. Other alternatives such as grad time and care be put into the per­
r several schools on different levels, 
the Law School Admissions Service because they believe that since they school or training programs may sonal statement -this will be a key 
r with different reputations. "Apply 
reports that 66 percent of those are not Arts and Letters, they will better suit your career plans. factor in a law school's decision on to a school you're sure to get into, a,.r taking the Law School Admissions not have the right background for Juniors may want to begin your application. 
couple ofdecent schools, and oneTest (LSAT, an aptitude .test for law law. This is not the case. looking for professors who will be Another aid in the preparation for that you don't think you really canr school applicants) received a 34 Law Schools do not look specifi­good personal references for appli­law school are Stanley H. Kaplan get into."

r percentile ranking on a scale with a cally for apre-law major. Instead, cations. Professors you know well Educational Centers across ther high score of 4H. Also worth noting they seek someone with a strong or those who taught classes you did country which offer courses de· The old saying· "Why put off'til r is the national mean GPA ofthose literate background who can cope well in are good places to begin. signed to prepare you for the LSAT, tomorrow what you can do today?"
r 
tested-3.2. with the heavy load ofreading and Provide the professor with an op­as well as other major aptitude can apply to anything. But ifwe 
r 
A Pre-Law Action Report states analyzing that law school entails. portunity to get to know you. Ask tests. They offer a fairly intense want to designate it as a motto for 
r 
that Notre Dame produced a total English and philosophy in one's him or her for an appointment program consisting ofclassroom all those considering law school, it r of 505 candidates for law school in curriculum are helpful. This is not before you ask for a recommenda­instruction, tapes and homework, requires a little revision-namely, 
r 
1984, with an average GPA of 3.2 to say that science or engineering tion. all with-a format similar to that of "Why put off'til tomorrow what 
r 
and an average LSAT score of 34.22. majors aren't going to make it in Richard Yao, author of the LSAT. youshould do today?" As $er According to current trends, law. They actually might do very "Packaging: Your Key to the Top "We have good figures on our application process is long and 
r 
Notre Dame students have faired well because ofthe logical nature of Law Schools," recommends self­students for the LSAT," says a involved, a head start can only
r 
slightly lower than the national scientific work. evaluation as a good starting point Kaplan representative. Kaplan better the chances of it being a
r 
mark set in the school year begin-Although the actual application for those interested in law school. boasts a 36.5 average score for its process with satisfying results. 
r 
r 
r 
r 


Moot Court-experiencing law 
r 
produce professional work." 

r 
Margaret McCabe Each team must present a written brief representing the
assistant features editor 
pair's best effort at a legal analy­sis ofthe case. This gives judges "Alot ofpeople want to be schools across the country) in a chance to pick up any weak­
lawyers -but they really the students' second semester. nesses in the argument before it don't know what law school is According to Professor Terry is presented orally in a simulated like and they're surprised when Phelps, director and coordinator courtroom. they get there," says Christina ofMoot Court, when most When a case is presented in Smith, one of 160 first-year law people hear "court" they think the "courtroom," all is in order. students who have been "trial." Moot Court, however, Titree judges, comprised ofan working for the last month and a involves appellate cases, cases upperclassman, a professor and half as participants in Moot that have already been decided an attorney from South Bend, Court, an annual event that but are now being appealed. will each be addressed as "your winds to a close tonight with Thus, students must analyze a honor." A court clerk will keep final oral presentations. court record and appeal the track oftime. And, for the very 
Perhaps defining "Moot decision as a real attorney would first time, students will be ad­Court" is the best way to elimi­appeal a case. Arguments will dressed as "counselor." nate the element ofsurprise that not focus on what the law is, but "The judges are tough," says may arise as a first-year law stu­how it has been applied. Smith, "they play devil's adv­dent opens his or her "Moot Students paired offinto teams, ocates to force students to think Court Survival Handbook." The and each team represented quick on their feet." Smith adds definition of Moot Court, as either the appellant or the appel­thatthejudgesrepresentthe found in Black's Law Dictionary, lee in a given case. There were real opposition, much more happens to be the first sentence 20 cases assigned (each case than the opposing side.
r 
of the introduction to the Moot assigned twice) which were ofa Apparently, what students
r 
Court handbook: "a court held criminal or civil nature. learn from Moot Court cannot 
(normally in law schools) for the How should students regard be found in books. "Students sit 
~ 
arguing ofmoot or hypothetical their cases? The handbook in class and learn criminal law, cases." makes itself perfectly clear -tort, contracts, procedures and 
r 
~­
Moot Court is also the name of "This case is your first profes­so on." says Phelps. "Moot Court a course required offirst-year sional assignment. For this rea­is their first chance to law students (not only at Notre son you will be treated like experience what it is like to be a 
. Dame, but at most major law professionals and expected to lawyer." 




Thursday, March 14, 1985-page 9
The Observer 



Baron contributes to academic success of players 

Editor's Note: Today The Obseroer continues its series profiling the as­sistant coaches of the Notre Dame men's basketball team. Assistant jim Baron is third in the series, which will conclude tomorrow with a look atDon Casey. 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's basketball 
program has earned a solid reputa­
tion nationwide based on its fine 
performance on the court and its ex­
cellent record in the classroom. 
Notre Dame assistant coach Jim 
Baron contributes strongly to the 
Irish in both areas. 
Baron returns to Notre Dame for his fourth season as a part-time assis­tant. Because of a NCAA rule, the part-time label detains him from any on-the-road recruiting. Otherwise, he performs the same functions as the other Irish assistant coaches. 
The most amazing record of the Notre Dame basketball program comes from the fact that during Head Coach Digger Phelps' 13-year career here all of his players have received their degrees. Part of this success must be credited to Baron and his work with the Irish players. 
"I work with Coach Mike DeCicco (academic advisor) and the players on their academics," Baron states. "I keep in touch with the academic of-flee and the players in order to check on their progress." 
De!.pite stressing .academics, Baron's basketball experience gives him a solid knowledge of the game. 
Baron graduated from St. Bonauanture University in 1977, wher•~ he started for three years. The playmaking guard led the team in as­sists twice, and in his senior year he co-captained the 1977 team that won the National Invitational Tournament. 
After graduation, Baron served as head basketball coach at Aquinas In­stitute in Rochester, New York. In the following three vears he worked· 


TONIGHT! 
soc cocktails 8-11 pm 25c Hot Dogs! 

Join usfora St. Pat's bash Fri, Sat, & Mon ~ 

our dc:kets. or ho purc:hcaseY
Sho"'us tJ 2 or "'ore "' r candfor cany ':J~=e~ c:osdns $3-501e~: r 
ca lunch or r JIICII'Bcaritca• • 
the t!Jiitre o /85

.,.ore. offer expires 3/31 
~--------~-.-. 
tol

W+E 
8ACC 
*
.. 
0 0 0
t 
i 

g 
~ 
~ 


Entertainment Nightly 
~MIGO's 
MexicanI American Restaurant 2313 E. Edison at II"OIIWOed, South Beftd 234-3594 
as an assistant coach at the Univer­sity of Rochester, Loyola College in Baltimore, and finally returning to St. Bonaventure for the 1980-81 season. 
Following a year as an assistant at his alma mater, Baron moved to his present position at Notre Dame. 
After eight years in the coaching field, the Brooklyn, N.Y., native looks forward to a long career in bas­ketball. 
"Basketball has been very good to me, and in turn I want to teach to others what I learned," Baron ex­plains. "Through all of this you can also learn a lot about life." 
Baron obviously enjoys his cur­rent role, but he still has several goals for his basketball future. 
"I would love to be a head coach some day and have my own pro­gram," he says. "The first step would be to become a full-time assistant so I can get on the road and recruit, and thus get all the experiences of coaching." 
Baron believes that his years at Notre Dame have taught him plenty, and the experience will prove valuable later. 
"It's been great learning from Coach Phelps because he is one of the top coaches in the country and a very good tactician," Baron ex­plains. "Notre Dame stresses both academics and basketball, so its been the best situation for me." 
In the summers of 1982 and 1983 Baron served as the national coach for the Panamanian national team in the World Games. He heard of the job through Phelps and Father Ed­mundJoyce, who was a classmate of the archbishop of Panama. This in­ternational experience, combined with his collegiate years should give him a fine background to achieve his goal ofa head coaching position. 
Qualifying for the NCAA Tourna­ment for the first time in four years has proven to be a verv exciting time for the Irish basketball program. For Baron, the NCAA games being played at the ACC have even more significance because his brother Paul stars for Ohio University. Paul leads the team in scoring, as well as assists. 
"Paul has done a great job and I'm proud of what he has achieved," Baron says. "His leading the team in assists impresses me because it shows he's an unselfish player. His love for the game serves as a step­ping stone for him out of the envi­ronment in Brooklyn. Plus, academics are still number one for him." 
While success in the NCAA Tournament is number one with Baron this weekend, academics never seem to be slighted. This com­bination ofbasketball and academics should soon make Jim Baron a valuable commodity in the basket­ball coaches' market. 
Besides the 6-9 Green, third in career scoring and second in career rebounding at Oregon State, the 
Beavers 
continuedfrom page 16 

Beavers start a pair of juniors up "Notre Dame's front line is very ac­front, 6-7 forward Tyrone Miller tive and has good size to it." (3.1 ppg, 1.4 rpg) and 6-9 center 
The Beavers, who carry an im­Steve Woodside ( 12.9 ppg, 5.1 rpg). pressive 10-4 road record, also think Irish center Tim Kempton believes they're ready to face the heavily­Green and Woodside are the two partisan ACC crowd. In fact, Green players Notre Dame must stop to says, the heat might be on the win. hometown Irish. "We feel the strength of their 
"We love to play on the road. game is the inside people, especially There is not as much expectation Green and Woodside," the junior from the fans playing on the road," center says. "We'll be looking to said the Associated Press third-team contain those two. All-American. "There could be more "At the same time, we feel we pressure on Notre Dame playing at need an inside and outside game if home." we're going to go anywhere in the 
1''
11111111111111111111111 '''''''''"''"""'"'''"'"''"""''""''''"...''''""'"....., 
6fHERftl MICRO LH FORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
MHCINTOSH 128K PROFESSIONHL PHCKHGE HHS BEEN EHTENDED UNTIL MHRCH 20, 1985 
CHRRYIN6 CHSES RRE IN STOCK­
6ET YOURS BEFORE SPRING BREHK 
MHC WRITE/MHC PRINT SOFTWHRE 
ORI61NHLLY 111.11 NOW 57.00! 
~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIINIIIIIIIIIIIItlllfiiHIIIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.i 

St. Patrick and Campus Shell are gtvtng away••• St. Patrick lapel stickers 
Free! with any purchase! 
OPEN 24 HOURS 7DAYSAWEEK 

415 Dixieway South (At Tollroad Entrance) 
277-7929 
Mastercard and Visa accepted 
~~~~ss~~sS~~ss~~ss~~~~j 
NCAAs. We have confidence in our rebounding game. We're going to try to get points on the offensive end and try to get their big people in foul trouble." 
Irish sophomore Donald Royal, who has been on an offensive tear of late, will draw the assignment of guarding Green. 
"Green is tough to defense," says Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps. "He's so fluid and there are so many ways that he can get open. As much as he goes inside, he can go outside. Plus he's very active around the boards and posts up well. He's one of the top players we've faced all year." 
The Notre Dame front line prob­ably won't be at full strength tonight, though. Forward Ken Barlow, the team's second-leading scorer be­hind David Rivers with a 15.4 point average, still is feeling the effects of strep throat. The illness became public at Monday night's basketball banquet, and Barlow only shot 
briefly at yesterday's early-evening workout. 
He had a 99-degree temperature 
yesterday, after it had been 102 the 
day before. Soreness remained in his 
throat last night, and it won't be de­
termined until sometime today whe­
ther he can play against the Beavers. 
But don't expect the game to hinge entirely on the battle up front. Oregon State's backcourt isn't all that bad. Like Notre Dame, the Beavers start a freshman guard in Eric Knox. And while Knox may not be to Oregon State what Rivers is to Notre Dame, he does aid the Beaver cause significantly, chipping in 7.2 points a game. 
Paired with Knox is 6-3 junior Darryl Flowers, the Oregon State playmaker. Flowers is the team's third-leading scorer behind Green and Woodside with 10 points a game. 
"Their guards really compliment 

their front line," Phelps says. 
By the same token, Oregon State 

will have to contend with the back­
court of Notre Dame, especially 
David Rivers, who himself was an 
honorable mention AP All­
.\merican. But, although Rivers is 
Notre Dame's leading scorer at 16.6 
points game, Miller sees a weakness 
there. 
"We know he's the key to their sit­

uation," the veteran coach says, "but 
he doesn't present any special prob­
lems for us. I was noticing where he 
shoots just over 40 percent a game. 
It will be important to keep him on 
the perimeter, and to keep him from 
penetratingand dishingoffthe ball." 
Should Oregon State be successful 

in that task, Rivers won't be 
penetrating and dishing off the ball 
for Notre Dame until sometime in 
late November. If he is, though, the 
Irish will move ahead in a tourna­
ment, as they did one year ago 
tonight by beating Old Dominion at 
the ACC in the first round ofthe NIT. 
• 
! a 
Sports Briefs 
The NO/Oregon State basketball game 
will be broadcast live tonight at 9:30 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. Pete Pranica and Kelly Brothers will describe the action. -The ObsenJer 
1bink you're a better refthan those in the Big Ten? Perhaps you would like to reffor Non-Varsity Athletics and the Bookstore Basketball tournament. Ifso, call Mike Dunn at the NVA office ( 239-6100). Previous experience is preferred but not neces­sarily required. -The ObsenJer 
A scuba-diving class is being sponsored by NVA. Anyone who is interested in this six-week course should attend a meeting on Tuesday, March 26, at 6:30 p.m. in room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. -The ObsenJer 
Professional wrestling is coming to Stepan Cen­ter. The MS Drive presents World Wrestling Federation "Wrestlemania," a closed-circuit broadcast live from Madison Square Garden on Sunday, March 31 at 1 p.m. Tickets are on sale now at the Gate I 0 ticket office at the ACC and at Rock du Lac. All proceeds go to Multiple Sclerosis. -The ObsenJer 
An interhall lacrosse league is being formed by NVA. The deadline for entries is Monday, April 8. For more infor­mation, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -The ObsenJer 
Thursday, March 14, 1985 -page I 0 
Tennis 
continuedfrompage 16 
all but one have seen collegiate com­petition prior to this year. 
Heading the list is junior Susie Panther, who plays at the number one singles spot. Panther, a native of Prairie Village, Kan., had a sensa­tional season last year as she ran off a 34-8 mark in the top singles slot. Her agressive play over the past two seasons has allowed her to accum­ulate the best winning percentage (.784) in combined singles and doubles play in Notre Dame history. Thus far on the season, Panther is 9-1 overall, with an undefeated fall season and a 2-1 mark in the spring. 
Also vital for the Irish in singles competition is junior Mary Colligan, who survived some off-season lineup shuffiing by Petro to find her­self in the number two slot. Colligan tallied a 25-11 record at the number­three singles slot last season, and has 
carved out a 2-1 mark so far in the spring after winning 12 matches in the fall. Colligan is also an excellent doubles player, as she teams with senior lisa LaFratta in the number­two doubles slot. Colligan, who lost her fine doubles partner of a year ago, Pam Fischette, to graduation, has blended in well with LaFratta to post a 3-0 mark on the new season. 
LaFratta, a senior from Richmond, Virginia, and a co-captain of the squad, plays also at the number­three singles slot. She won 26 matches last year, and has been stel­lar so far this year with a 3-0 mark. 
At the number-four singles slot is freshman Michelle Dasso. Dasso, who comes to Notre Dame ranked 98th in the nation from her home in Sunnyside, Wash., has compiled a 3­0 slate in singles to go with her identical 3-0 slate on the number­three doubles team with Cathy Schnen. 
Also vital elements to the squad are senior Laura Lee, sophomore JoAnne Biafore, and junior Isobel O'Brien. Lee will be counted on this year in doubles, as she teams with Panther in the number orie spot. Biafore and O'Brien, meanwhile, are holding down the fifth and sixth singles slots respectively, and have compiled a combined 4-0 record this season. 
These positions and pairings, however, are subject to change a~ the season progresses and as the needs ofthe squad change. 
Tourney 
continued from page 16 

how they handled their first-round games," says Danch. "It's just a mat­ter ofbeing organized." 
Organization also meant a lot to Lou Scanna, a technical manager for CBS. "We had to be concerned with the number of cameras, tape machines, and graphics machines," says Scanna, explaining that, unlike Saturday's games, today's games are an NCAA production as opposed to a CBS production. CBS was hired by the NCAA to provide facilities for today's games, which arc being broadcast live nationally by ESPN . CBS then will take lull rein for Saturday's games. 
So putting on a major production such as this requires input from all angles. In the end, thousands of tick­ets will have been taken, a bevy of programs and releases will have found their way throughout the arena, a steady succession of televi­sion waves will have carried. the games to viewers across the country, concessions will have been made and then sold, and two teams will have survived through the media blitz to come out on top. 
The Ohserr•er Notre Dame oltke. located on the third noor of Lafortune Student Cent<-r. accepts dassilkd adverti,ing from'! a.m. until -1 p.m. Monday through friday. The Obserr•er Saint Man··s office. located on the third Ooor of Haggar College Centa. a<Tepts dassifinh from 12:.~0 p.m. until 5 p.m.• Mon· <.lay though Friday. Deadline for next-<.la~ cla"ilinls i' .~ p.m. All cla,,ifi<·ll, must ht· prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Charge is I() <Tnt' per lin-charac· ters cr da •. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8817 
TYPING AVAILAIILE 287-4082 
WOfiDPROCESSING 2n-ao45 
....................... 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAll MRS. COKER, 233-7001. 
Word Proceeamg/Typtng -aJao copying. Call Andrea 283-3880 · 9 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. 
TYPING 
Jtocklallogp 
8U-8713 
PRo-TYPE OvB< 14 yrs. expenence typing sludent papers. dissertations etc. 2n-5833 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD. "THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT' IS SPONSORING A BUS TO o·HARE. The bus leaves Fnday, March 15 at 3pm Indiana time and returns Sunday. March 24 at 6 pm Ch•cago bme. The trip coeta $10 each -Y· Bnng money to the SAB off1cee. 
ATIENTION all students s1gned up lor the SENIOR CLASS TRIP TO DAYTONA A MANDA TORY meeting Will be held 7:00 pm Thursday in the LaFortune tinle theater 
ATIENTION: ALL SOUTH PADRE IS­LAND BOUND NOTRE DAME STU­DENTS. THERE WILL BE A ST. PATRICK'S DAY PARTY ON SUNDAY NIGHT AT THE MARINA CONDOS' FOR MORE INFO CALL KURT AT 1583. 
LOST/FOUND 
TO WHOEVER TOOK MY BOOKBAG FROM THE BOOKSTORE FRIDAY MORNING--WOULD YOU AT LEAST PUT MY NOTES AND GLASSES BACK SO I CAN READ AGAIN 
Loet: MY SKI CAP; it's black with sevB<al white and grey stnpes; could be anywhB<e. Please call Andy ]1 176. THANKS1 
I!REWAR0/1 A ten pB<cenl reward ONB<ed for the return of a T1mex men·s wristwatch kJel on March 1 between Keenan and Cuotung Aud. Return 11. make yoursell leal good. and make a lew bucka in the prOCfta. Call x3327 
Loet:Spalding Executive PITCHING WEDGE;Ieh on 13th green;REWARD of­lered;cd Enk at 1623. 
LOST: Gold eamng between Stepan and PW Sat. night. It you happen to have lound it. please call 2958 because it waarfl m•ne and someone 11 gomg to be a little upset with me 
LOST: NOTRE DAMEI1AT IN LOBBY OF SOUTH DINING HALL. CALL TIM 2543 IF YOU HAVE IT 
FOUND: CROSS PEN AND PENCIL IN ROOM 124 NIEULANOSCIENCE BLDG. CALL TIM 2543 TO IDENTIFY. 

Found Gold Charm· Call Mary Zo at2619. 
found; sony walkman headphones, tell in my car by a girl wt1o hitched a ride with me up N.D. ave last thursday. II they are youre. call me at 2065 
LOST: set of keys on leather keychain, 3/T. In o·shag or Lalortune. 283-4233 it found-thanka. 
LOST· gold charm bracelet at SMC Friday. Please call Lisa at 284-4216. REWARD. 
LOST-MY OOG-"ambe('SHE IS REALLY MELLOW AND COOL. I CANT BELIEVE SHE WOULD LEAVE ME. IF SOMEONE SNAGGED HER PLEASE GIVE HER BACK. YOU CAN HAVE GRANT INSTEAD.THERE IS A REWARD OF A KEG OF BREW FOR ANYONE WHO KNOWS WHERE SHE MAY BE THIS DOG LIVES AY 802 NAPOLEON BLVD. PLEASE HELP HER FINO HER WAY HOME-AMBER IS LITILE.BROWN.WHITE.TAN AND A 
LITILE HUSKY. WITHOUT HER OUR PARTIES ARE NOTHING. AMBER IF YOU CAN READ THIS WE LOVE YOU PLEASE COME HOME CALL 234-2275 
FOR RENT 

SUBLET LG 2BR APT APRIL. 1ST 232­4355 . 
.______w_A_NT_E_D___.\ 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MORNING. MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
Relabves traveling from El S.lv1dor to see beloved president. So. I need many COMMENCEMENT t•ckets. Calf 381 I or you may lind a guerilla at your door. 
HELP NEED RIDE FOR TWO TO DEN­VER WILLING TO SHARE EXPENSES CALL 2187 ANYTIME 
NEED RIDE FOR 2 TO DENVER 2187 CALL ANYTIME 
WANTED: 3 nders tor return lrom TAMPA/FA.·s WEST COAST. Call Ed(1664) or Mike(1668). 
RIDE NEEDED to Pinsburgh Call Susie at4132. 
Need-nder to Boston for S.B. Leave Fri. Allernoon. Share usual. Call Tracy 4049. 
Ride needed to llllnoos for spring break to etther Peoria, Bloomington. or west on In· terstate 80 to LaSalle-Peru or Annawan. Can leave on Friday. Calf Daveat1931. 
Need nde to Milwaukee. Ken x1439 
RIDE NEEDED FORT LAUDERDALE Of LONG ISLAND Call Shawn, 4073 
FOR SALE 

...•.............................•.. 
Supersaver tix 58-Boston return 2113­2513 Call232-6085 
····················•··············•··•·· 
THE SUN. THE SAND. AND THE SURF SPRING BREAK IS ALMOST HERE AND YOU DONT HAVE PLANS GET A DIS­COUNT ON AN SAB TRIP TO FT. LAUDERDALE CALL 283-3815 AFTER 4 PM 
····················· 
FOR SALE: OLDS 118 AM/Flit STEREO, RUNS WELL. $300. 2113-1768 JOE. 
FOR SALE: ROUND TRIP TICKET TO CALIFORNIA (L.A.) ONLY $220!!! FLIGHT LEAVES ON THURSDAY (MARCH 14) PLEASE CALL 3693 IF IN­TERESTED. 
TICKETS 

TICKETS FOR NCAA·s round 1 & 2 thur&sat call ROBT. ]2 3 2-8 3 o6 
NEED-2 Kiss Tix. $$$ Call Jell Stouder Collect (317)474-0667 
NCAA TIX--call232-5569' 

yWANTED NCAA TICKETSy call272-7900 ask lor Mr. Hunt 
Tix lor sale: 2 NCAA lix for Thurs. night games. Contact Tom at272-8793 • 
\ PERSONALS 
KATHLEEN SHANNON KAREN KOSTECKY DORENE DOMINGUEZ 

KATHY SOMMER 24 MORE HOURS•,TEQUILA.S. PADRE,I<AHLUA.MEXIC0.24 MORE HOURS 
LMV PS--BY THE WAY, WHO IS GOING TO DRIVE THE RENTED CAR? WE'VE ALL HAD SO MANY ACCIDENTS WE CAN'T AFFORD ANOTHER! HOW ABOUT RENTING A CHAUFFER? LETS TALK! 
NEED EXTRA $. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS AT PANDORA·s BOOKS.937 SO.BEND AVE.M-F BIT12-4PM. WE ALSO OFFER A 3 DAY SERVICE FOR USED BOOKS. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
............................................. GUITAR PLAYER LOOKING TO START A BAND OR JOIN AN EXISTING ONE. NEEDS ALL THE HELP HE CAN GET. CALL ANDY 3039 
SHIP OUT THE HOMELESSIII ·I need a ride to O'Hare on Friday, March 151 II you are Chicago-bound on that day and have some space, Call Hank at2084. (Will Hare usual) 
JIM TABOR CORE COURSE Player of the week ...,. CUihWI 

TO POMI SMITH OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE WISE KOREAN Northwestern was great'l!! 0 wise one. thank you lor encouraging me to finally go. I had the time of QlY lite!! It was good to see him again. (And I'm going to buy every album that George Winston has ever put out!!) The only bad part of the weekend was hearing about the MG upon my return, and the tact that Lou•se had called. once again inquiring as to my wt1ereabouts. She's no tool ... I know she didn't buy the aunt and uncle routine. (But it was a good try.) Just mention "Northwesfern" and she gets a very worried look in her eyes --· it's the same look as wt1en I say "U of 1". And judging from the silence in Illinois, she isn't too pleased. Of course. there's always silence alter an earthquake. 1sn't there? 
TRON 
ANARCHY ..NOW!!! 
............................................. BOGREOISE SWINE PIG OPPRES­SORS BEWARE THE R.C.L.A. IS COM­ING 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD "THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT" IS SPONSORING A BUS TO O'HARE! The bus leaves Friday. March 15 at 3pm Indiana time, returns on Sunday, March 24 at6 pm Chicago lime. The price is $10 each way. Bring checks made out to SAB to the Student Activities Board offices. 
Beet and the barbarian say : "TOWNIE FEVER ... CATCH IT Ill" 
ATIENTION all students signed up lor the SENIOR CLASS TRIP TO DAYTONA A MANDATORY meeting will be held Thursday at 7:00 pm at the LaFortune little theater. 
SCROG SCROG SCROG 
Allthfl ICrOIHIIng mu1tend. 
hey tess baby. someone's watch•ng you .. 
RIDE NEEDED to Pittsburgh. Call Susie al4132. 
Jeff Herman-· Just wanted to say "hello" and wish you a tun and exciting spring break. Love. Your Secret Admirer. 
PANDEMONIUM AT STEPAN CEN­TER1!1 Sun. 3/31 1:OOpm "WRESTLEMANIA" HOGAN/MR.T vs. PIPER/ORNDORFF plus 8 other chaotic matches!ll TICKETS: Gate 10 ACC & SAB Record Store Don't Miss It! Beee There!! 
The Schwerha will not be denied her in­sanity' 
IRISH BOXER SHORTS !!! $5 
Liz x2761 
"WE ARE THE WORLD" The hit single by USA lor Africa is now on sale at Rock Du Lac. first floor. LaFortune. Help the starving people of Ethiopia 
"We •rethe World" On sale at Rock Ou lee ! 
CHEAP! Two airline tickets one way NY to Chicago Sunday March 24. Call284-4229 
AUDITIONS I PARTS IN DIRECTING PLAYS AUDITIONS WILL BE HELD IN WASH­INGTON HALL LAB THEATRE, THIS THURSDAY, 3-14-85, AT 8PM. 
ATIENTIONND&SMC: March 171hisJames(BO)McVeigh·s21st BIRTHDAY!! Be SURE to wish him a HAPPY BIRTHDAY today or tomorrow­Call 34 76-or look on 12th floor ot the 
·sAAR! ............................ HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIMB0!!-1 LUV YA! Love.your "little CW"(Fiorada) 
........................................ TO KAREN. LISA, JENNY. TRISH. BETH. PATII P.• DEBBIE A, DEBBIE C .. MICHELLE T • MICHELLE M.. SUE. SUSIE. AND SUSAN -THE DANCIN' IRISH: THANKS FOR THE BEST SEASON EVER! YOU GIRLS ARE TER­RIFFIC! (AND YOUR LEGS AREN'T BAD EITHER) WE'LL MISS YOU -LOVE. JAN AND PATII P.S. SPECIAL THANKS TO JOHN FOR ALL HIS HELP! 
ORA-HONEY. YOU WERE "ELECTRA"FYING!! LOVE FROM 'YOUR KEENAN FRIENDS WHO "WANT TO KNOW WHAT LOVE IS." 
TO THE GIRLS EATING LUNCH INC­LINE TUESDAY: WE NEVER KNEW ANYONE COULD LOVE CARROTS SO MUCH 
HEY ROACH. GOING DOWN TO MIAMI TO SEE IF YOU CAN GET GOOSED AGAIN? I STILL THINK SHE WAS AFTER YOUR WALLET. ..SKELLY 
KIM & CHRIS, Thanks lor putting me up. You're real saints. Have tun on break.NIC 
Nick G.-· J'espere que vous aurez un bon temps a Montana. Take lots of pictures. 
O.Why did no Morrissey guys run tor class of '88 office? A.Bec•un tra1hmen rep. Tony Simon is a pillar of Ineptitude. 
THE DISCIPLES OF DOLAN congratulate Jimmy lor being voted BEST DEFENSIVE PLAYER OF THE YEAR. Keep up the good work. big guy! 
HISquMky! Love, Sugar B•r 
BAPPY HIRTHDAY ERIN! ...from the one wt1o dares to be ditterent. .Hope your 201h is the best. Get psyched tor tO great days on the beach! Love, Megg1e 
SEX KITIEN! HERE'S TO A ROMANTI­CALLY WILD SPRIG BREAK! SO. CAL. WILL NEVER BE THE SAME AFTER WE TERRORIZE IT! I LOVE YOU. LOIN 
LION. 
Losl:p.wedge on 13th green:REWARO;Erik 1623. 
The Schwerha is running wild! 
MEXICAN LUNCH Thurs. 1 1 :30-1 :30 Proceeds to St. Stephan's atCSC 
I WOULD APPRECIATE HEARING 
FROM ANYONE WHO WOULD BE 
WILLING TO WRITE ME. I AM A VERY 
LONELY PRISONER IN NEED OF 
FRIENDSHIP. I WILL ANSWER ANY 
AND ALL LETIERS I MAY RECEIVE. I'M 
33 YEARS OLD. WHITE MALE.6"1". 150 
POUNDS WITH BLUE EYES AND 
BLOND HAIR. PLEASE DON'T SEND 
ANY POSTAGE STAMPS IN YOUR LET­
TERS, IF YOU WANT YOU MAY SEND 
ONE EMBOSSED STAMPED 
ENEVELOPE WITH YOUR LETIER 
SINCE WE ARE ONLY ABLE TO 
RECEIVE ONE EMBOSSED STAMPED 
ENVELOPE WITH EACH LETIER. 
JERRY L. HENNING, 161803. P.O. BOX 
45699. LUSASVILLE. OHIO. 45699­
0001. 
......................, .... 

PHIL DELEE; Thanks lor a great viSit. 
D.C. is lonely without you. JET'AIME. Nicole. 
24 more hours! 
tequila 
kahlua 
24 more hours! 

NEWS :'LASH! The First Lady VISits the Dairyman (via Or. Bunches) wt1ile the Royal Order olthe Quad and a dishwater blond "lox" from Montana hit D.C. Show the world some REAL hedonism• And remember--you don't h•veto steer' THE JESTER 
DMrC.ra 

Good luck today on camps. We know 
you·tt pass with flying colors. Alter its over 
it's t1me for some high powered Insanity. 
Get psyched lor Florida!! 

Love. the gang 
Do you heve Tu81day or Thuradaly 11­ternoona lrH? II ao, then how 1boul becomlne a SMC Obaerver day editor 1ub? C•ll T...•t 23~5303 or 2114-5365 for morelnformt~tlon. 
CALENDER BOY, do you th1nk that Far· ley girl has figured out who is sending the anonymous Gremlin cards? 
KATIE AUSTRAILIA-11 you were a temple l"d be a hun, wear something transparent to dinner. you m1ght as well I do worse things 1n my dre lltns.--lndiana Gordon 
I think I won this round-THE RETARD 
PROFESSOR HIGHLAND-NOW THAT CLASSES HAVE RESUMED. WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO TEACH ME? IF THE COURSE IS AN ELECTIVE, I CHOOSE .. I WANT TO KNOW WHAT LOVE IS ··--400 LEVEL. OF COURSE. SINCERELY. YOUR BELOVED STU­DENT. (ME-PAL) 
DEAR SANDRA DEE AND DEBBIE, I wanted to wish you both a FANTASTIC St. Patrick's Day! Drink a lew for me, be­cause I'm sure hard drinking isn·t on the agenda in Coldwater. Mich1ga1n. You're both really ....adequate roomates(just teasing!). See ya! Maureen 
TROY ILLIG: rm so glad that we are li­nally on the same wavelength. You don·r know how long I've been wailing lor this. Believe me. the leeling IS mutual. Please reply at your nearest convenience. Love 
and kisses, SEXXY 

The Observer Thursday, March 14, 1985-page 11 
Beats Grace for title 
OC takes hockey chaiDpionship 
By KEVIN HERBERT r•:cord of 4-1-2. Finishing in a two-however, the scoreless tie was bro­Sports Writer way tie for fourth were ken when Off Campus' Bill Smith Cavanaugh/Howard and Dillon (3-was able to beat Chura and give his 
Day in and day out, Off Campus 3·1 ). Rounding out the Krause divi-team the early 1-0 advantage. continually proved itself to be the sion were Flanner ( 1-6) and This lead did not last long, class ofinterhall hockey this year. forfeit-plagued Keenan ( 0-7). however, as Grace came right back 
Off Campus· brought its un-In the first round of the playoffs, to tie the game at one. blemished season to a close Tuesday Off Campus handed Pangborn its With around six minutes remain­night when it defeated Grace, 3-2, in first defeat of the year by a score of ing in regulation time, Off Campus overtime to capture the interhall 3-0. In the other postseason square-was once again able to take the lead hockey championship. o1I, Grace pounded Alumni 8-0. when Dave Hooster scored the go-
The top two teams in each divi-This set the stagt: for the second ahead goal. sion earned the right to participate meeting between the two Krause Grace was able to tie the game on in post-season play. In the Corrigan division powerhouses. Tuesday a fluke goal with less than five division, Alumni claimed the night in the ACC, Off Campus and minutes remaining. The puck divisional crown with a record of 5-G·race met to decide who would be bounced off of an Off Campus 0-1. Pangborn claimed the runner-crowned interhall champion. · defender, behind Pete Berry, and up position with a 4-0-2 mark. In the first half, each team was into the net. The game was tied at 
These two teams were able to able to put pressure on the opposing two. outdistance Stanford ( 4-2), ·Zahm defenses. Despite this pressure, and That is the way the score ( 3-2-1 ), Sorin ( 2-4 ), Carroll ( 1-5) despite each squad hitting its op-remained until the end ofregulation and Fisher ( 0-6). ponent's goalpost with the puck, time. This forced the game into sud-
In the Krause division, Off-neither team was able to score a goal den death to decide the interhall Campus got off to a great start and in the half. hockey league champion. was never surpassed, although it was The outstanding goaltending con-equaled. tinued for each team in the early part With three minutes remaining in 
Both Off Campus and Grace of the second half as Off Campus' overtime, a Grace team member claimed the top spot with identical, goalie Pete Berry and Grace' wound up and blasted a slapshot undefeated records of 5-0-2. goaltender Pat Chura proved towards the Off Campus' goal. Un­
Close behind the front-runners equally stingy. fortunately for Grace, the shot never 
was Holy Cross/St. Ed's, posting a Midway through the second half, got to'the net, it was blocked by Off­Campus defenseman John Dunn. Dunn then quickly shuffled the puck to John Leary as Off Campus streaked towards the Grace goalona three-on-one breakaway. 

Leary stick-handled the puck very well into the Grace defensive zone The independent student nHwspaper serving Notre where he fed Ed Sullivan who was all alone, Sullivan then capitalized on
Dame and Saint Mary's is ac~cepting appHcations for 
the opportunity, sending the puck
the following positions: 
behind Chura to give Off Campus the interhall hockey championship
Assistant Sports Editor (2) 
by a score of 3-2. 

Saint Mary's ~~ports Editor Alumni ended the year, playoffs included, with a record of 5-0-1. Pangborn was 4-1-2, Grace was 6-1­
Questions about these posil'ions should be directed 
2, and OffCampus ended its champi­
to Jeff Blumb at the Observm office. Personal 
onship season with an unblemished 
statements and resumes arc~ due Friday, March 15, 
mark of 7-0-2, the best record in in­
1985NCAA Tournament 
•s.c:oncfAound 
U.rch16-H  
Il-L - 1  WEST  
:::.  8 5 ·~:1J  J  I  
iiiL  6  
 
N.C.­--­ 3  
::;- 7 :1: 1 il!  I :  
 

6 
55 il! : 
1 li: Ui2 I 
.... 5 
~ •
E. 
.. . .;1:
_ .._ 2 ,_. 151 
: 
1
~ 
~
~--J 
·.lloiiioiii 5 
o. •
i.su 
l!!!l. 6 
March 22 & 2•
1-. :i: J 
I
lliiiiOiiOOo. 7 
I
-w:-.,.;,a;;o
--2 
198SNCAA~ 
CHAMPIONSHI:@ 


at5p.m. terhall hockey. 
r----------------------·---------------------------------------:----careerN19hf___: 
NAUGL:ES 24 HR. DRIVE THRU 
501 Dixieway North Roseland 272 -5455 
1 Reception 1 
r:liu.ut-d t sponsored by t ~~.'B-. ONE REGUlAR BURRITO FREE $ 
t The Washington, D.C. Alumni Club t
This check is worth One (J) Regulolr Burrito FREE with purchase ofMacho Combo Burrito. One check per visit, please. Not vali'd with any other promotional offer, coupons, or specials. t to discuss career opportunities and t 
t summer employment t 
JY~ 2~ ~. qj)~ f!Tiuu 
t hors d'oeuvres and bar , t 
Your Late Night Study Break Headquarters 
t Tuesday, March 19, 6-8 pm t 
1: *2* * 1: 0 ? 0 * 0 *0 * * B 1:1 5u• ? 0 t 2175 Rayburn House building t
EXPIRES 4/30/85 VALUE .0001 MILLS 
I
--------------·clip and St1Ve -------------------------------------t Contact: Gary Caruso t 
t Work: (202) 225-n42 or Home: (202) 544-3333 t 
~~---~~~~---~~~---~~~~~ 
BEE:R 
WINTER WARM-UP SPEClALS 
Every Thursday is Batl1tub Beer Night in 
Save s1 to s2 on ...
Kelly's NightClub. Enjoy any ofourCanadian beers for only $1.00 (Moosehead, Molson, No Coupons Necess.ary Reg. NOW· Labatts, Grizzly, 
FRIED SHRIMP. __ •• _----___ •__ }6.25 $5.25 
YUkon Gold, Iron Horse). PERCH----------,---------57.95 ss.95 
RED SNAPPER------------------sa.25 $6.75 
Music begins at 8 PM. Proper Attire ANDARD CUT of PRIME RIB••• < 58.25 • $6.95 
!Wquired. ·FULL CUT of PRIME RIB•• ______~2.50 s1o.sJ1 
~ 

Each entree Includes a bottomless tureen of home­made soup, baked bread and butter, plus your choice of baked potato, home fries or rice mason. 
Off~ f!O' v.Jiid with .Jny other .Jdvertised speci.Jis or 
-; Expires 6, 1985 
.... j 
1 
------------~---­
The Observer Thursday, March 14, 1985 -page 12 
.­
I 
•
• 
KANSAS JAYHAWKS 
vs. 

OHIO U. BOBCATS 
Ohio University 

(12:07 p.m.)
•Location: Athens, Ohio. 
•Enrollment: 14,930 
•Colors: 
Green and White 

•Nickname: 
Bobcats 

•Conference 
Mid-American 


•Personnel: 

Probable Starters arc: Henry Smith; Fr., forward, 6-5, 210 lbs., 3.6 ppg, 3.9 rpg. EddieHicks; Sr., forward, 6-6, 205lbs., 9.9 ppg, 6.7 rpg. Richard Stanfel; So,, center, 6-10, 245 lbs., 2.4 ppg, 3.4 rpg. PaulBaron; Jr., guard, 6-3, 185 lbs., 9.3 ppg. ,3.9 rpg. Robert Tatum; Jr., guard, 6-0, 185lbs., 15.3 ppg. 2.5 rpg. Top substitutes arc: VtcAlexander; Sr., forward, 6-7, 240 lbs. 
jobn Rhodes; Fr., center, 6-9, 230 lbs. Eddie Washington; Sr., forward, 6-3, 195lbs. Rick Scarberry; Sr., guard, 6-3, 175lbs. 
•Strengths andweaknesses: Defense is probably the Bobcats' big­gest strength, and it is one that they have worked hard to perfect because oftheir lackofsize. The key to their defensive game is quick· ness and variation. 
"We're a very simple team," says Ohio coach Danny Nee. "The nucleus ofour whole game is defense. We usc mutiplc defenses, we press, we play man-to-man, and zone. 
"Offensively, we have a couple of explosive players in Robert Tatum and Vic Alexander(Alexander, recoveringfrom a knee injury, is not expected to start.) Paul Baron is our leading assist man. We're not an explosive team as far as putting points on the board; we're more a spurt-type team. But we arc very sound defensively." 
•Coaching st2fl: Nee, in his fifth year as head coach at Ohio, has restored a winning tradition with three straight 20-victory seasons. He is no stranger to Notre Dame, as he spent four years here as an assistant coach, from 1976-80, assisting on four 20-gamc winners. In his five years at Ohio, Nee has a 85-58 record for a winning percentage of .594. 
Both of Nee's assistants, Billy Hahn and Fran Fraschilla, have been with the team for four years. 
•How 
they got here: Nee calls his players "blue-collar workers," guys that roll up their sleeves and do what they have to do to get the job done. Adversity is what made them that way, and they have had plenty ofit. Early injuries to Tatum and Alexander forced Nee to go to his bench, and players like Smith and Scarberry responded. Ohio reeled off 11 straight wins at one point and rolled Into the MAC Tournament with an NCAA bid as its goal. Wins over Kent State and Miami ofOhio clinched the touma!llcnt championship and gave the Bobcats their NCAA bid. They finished the year at 22· 7 overall, 14-4 in the MAC. 

•Post-season 
experlence:Thc last NCAA bid for Ohio was in 1983, when Nee's Bobcats beat Illinois State, 51-49, before falling to Ken­tudcy, 57-40. Before that, you have to go back to 1974 to find a Bobcat team in the NCAAs. But Nee is undaunted by his team's lack ofexperience. 


"The things we've done all year are the same things that we'll have to do In the tournament," he says. "It all starts with good solid defense." 


University ofKansas 
•Location: 
Lawrence, Kan. •Enrollment: 25,400 

•Colors: 
Crimson and Blue •Nickname:Jayhawks 

•Conference: 
Big Eight 


•Personnel: Probable Starters are: DannyManning; Fr., forward, 6-11, 205 lbs., 15.0 ppg. 7.6 rpg. Ron Kellogg; Jr., 6-5, 190 lbs., 17.8 ppg, 5.0 rpg. Greg Dreiling; Jr., center, 7-1, 240 lbs., 13.6 ppg, 6.9 rpg. Cedric Hunter; So., guard, 6-0, 180 lbs.. 6. 7 ppg, 2.4 rpg. Calvin Thompson; Jr., guard, 6-6, 205lbs., 13.5 ppg, 4.7 rpg. Top substitutes arc: Milton Newton; Fr., guard, 6-4, 195 lbs. Mark Turgeo11; So., guard, 5-10, 1 50 lbs. Tad Boyle; Sr., guard, 6-4, 180 lbs. 
•Strengths andweaknesses:One ofKansas' biggest strengths is its size across the front line · particularly Dreiling and Manning. who usually have kept the Jayhawks in control on the boards. Strong rebounding has, in tum, keyed Kansas' transition game. The Jayhawks are a team that likes to run and score a lot of points; they averaged better than 76 points per game this year, and four starters average better than 13 points per contest. Kellogg and Manning arc the keys to the offense, along with point guard Hunter, the team's assist leader with 13 7. 
Defense hasn't been one of Kansas' strong suits this season, but its wide-open style of play is a big reason why it gives up 70 points per outing. The key to beating the Jayhawks is slowing down the tempo of the game and forcing them into halfcourt situations. 
According to Kansas coach Larry Brown, one oftheJayhawks' big problems has been maturity; not just that their roster includes seven freshmen, but in light of the team's overall chemistry. TheJayhawks have not been as unified a team as Brown would like. 
"It's been a trying year, one of my most difficult in coaching." Brown says. "But we've won 25 games with a young team. Still, I would rather we had done a better job learning to care about each other offthe court." 
•Coaching staff: Brown, in his fourth season as a major college head coach, is only the sixth full-time coach in Kansas history. He was the head coach at UCLA for two years ( 1979-81 ), where he compiled a record of 44-17. Each of Brown's four collegiate teams have won at least 20 games and gained an NCAA tourney berth. 
On the pro level, Brown has nine years of experience, including four years in the NBA, where three ofhis teams won at least 44 games in a season. In short, Brown is one of the best in the game. He is knowledgeable and experienced, and knows how to win · in 1 3 years of pro and college coaching. he has never had a team finsh below .500.. 
Assistant coaches Bob Hill, Ed Manning andJohn Calipari add fur­ther knowledge and experience to the staff. Hill is in eighth season at KU, while Manning is a former collegiate and pro player. Calipari coaches the )ayhawks' junior varsity team. Graduate assistants R.C. Buford and Tom Butler complete the staff. 
•How 
theygothere: With such adominance ofyouth on his roster, Brown suggested it would be a "season of ups and downs," and his prediction proved true. Kansas struggled early in the conference, but then went on a tear, winning five straight Big Eight games. Late· season losses to Missouri and Iowa State forced the Jayhawks into second place, however, where they finished the regular season. Their record stands at 25-7, 11· 3 in the conference. A loss to Iowa State in the opening round of the Big Eight Tournament prevented Kansas from improving its ranking . 

•Post-season 
experience: The fourth-winningest program in col­legiate history, Kansas has been a mainstay in the NCAA tournament. The Jayhawks have appeared in the tourney 1 5 times, and KU is seventh in all-time tournament victories with 23. TheJayhawks have been to the Final Four six times. 


In last year's tourney, Kansas nipped Alcorn State, 57-56, before falling to Wake Forest, 69·59.
I 
t 
Middle Tennessee State University 
•Location: 
Murfreesboro, Tenn. •Enrollment: 11,250 

•Colors: 
Navy Blue and White 

•Nickname: 
Blue Raiders 

•Conference: 
Ohio Valley 



•Personnel: Probable starters arc: Kerry Hammonds; Fr., forward, 6-7, 225 lbs., 14.0 ppg, 8.0 rpg. 
Kim Cooksey; Jr., forward, 6-3, 175lbs., 17.4 ppg. 4.8 rpg. 
Lonnie Thompson; Sr., swingman, 6-4, 195 lbs., 13.1 ppg. 5.3 rpg. ]amesjohnson; Jr., guard, 6-5, 200 lbs., 5.8 ppg, 121 assists. Billy Mtller; So., center, 6-8, 225 lbs., 3.9 ppg, 3.0 rpg. 
Top subsitutes are: Russell Smith; Sr., forward, 6-7, 196 lbs. AIHolland; Jr., center, 6-8, 220 lbs. Greg Stevenson; Fr., guard, 6-3, 170 lbs. Neil Murray; Fr., guard, 5·11, 115 lbs. 
•Strengths and Weaknesses: One of Middle Tennessee's greatest strengths lies In Its solid outside shooting. Cooksey and Thompson, although not blessed with great size, own excellent outside jump shots. "Cooksey and Thompson certainly can shoot the ball," says North Carolina head coach Dean Smith, whose Tar Heels will face the Blue Raiders tonight. "We better have a hand in their faces." 
The Blue Raiders also have a very talented player in Smith coming off the bench. An All-Ohio Valley Conference pick last year and a starter for the first part ofthe year, Smith now comesoffthe bench to give the Blue Raiders help in the middle. "Smith, the all-conference forward, isn't starting now," says Smith. "And that's strange, because he can come offthe bench and hurt you." 
1be Blue Raiders lack hei(lht, however. Going up against the huge front line of the Tar Heels, this deficiency will be especially noticeable. As far as playing a slow-down game against the Tar Heels 
goes, Blue Raider Head coach Bruce Stewart doesn't feel he has the players to pull it off successfully. "We just don't have a quick point guard to be able to stall away a game," he says. "A coach always will do what he can to win a game, but you won't see a 2-0 game." 
•Coaching 
staff: Head coach Bruce Stewart is in his first season at Middle Tennessee after compiling a 64-9 record in two years at Wes­layan. Before that, the 31-year old Stewart took Volunteer State Junior College to the national junior college tournament. Although young. Stewart is considered an up-and-coming coach. A very hard worker, he has been able to transform la:st year's 11-16 club into this season's 17-13 Ohio Valley Conference champion, gaining an NCAA tournament bid in the process. 

•How 
they got here: Before the season, Blue Raider fans were unsure ofthe potential ofthe Middle Tennessee squad. The team had a new coach, Stewart, and eight new players. Four newcomers were freshmen, while the other four were junior college transfers. While most Middle Tennessee State followers did not know what the season would bring. Stewart was confident. "By the middle of February or so," said Stewart at the beginning of the season, "we're going to be the one team in the Ohio Valley Conference that other teams want to play the least." The Blue Raiders proved him correct 


when they upset Murray State, Tennessee Tech and Youngstown State to talce the OVC title and gain a berth in the NCAAs. 
•Post-season e:ll:perlence: Middle Tennessee is probably best remembered as the team that upset Kentucky in the 1982 NCAA tournament· the victory termed the "Miracle ofMurfreesboro." But the Blue Raiders finished with losing records each of the last two seasons, and so few, if any, of the players have appeared in post­season action. Playing North Carolina in the NCAA tournament would tend to make any team nervous, whether or not any of the players had post-season action under their belts. It remains to be seen whether Stewart can keep his players loose tonight as they meet the highly-favored Tar Heels . 
T 
c
ME 

NA
I N " 
OR
D N 
v 

Ro
DE 
s 
T L
L 5 
HI
E 5 

N
E 

A
E 
(7:07p.m.) 

... 
--~--------~----------------------------~----------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, March 14, 1985 -page 13 

AU BUR~~ TIGERS 
vs. 
PURDUE~ BOILERS 
Purdue University 
•Location: West Lafayette, Ind. 
(2:37p.m.)
•Enrollment: 31,457 
•Colors: 
Old Gold and Black 

•Nickname: 
Boilermakers 

•Conference: 
Big Ten 


•Personnel: Probable starters are: Mark Atkinson; Sr., forward, 6-8, I9i' lbs., 7.8 ppg, 5.I rpg. Todd Mitchell; Fe., forward, 6-7, 199 lbs., 7.1 ppg, 4.4 rpg. 
jat1Jes Bullock; Sr., center, 6-6, 2I5lhs., 14.2 ppg, 6.4 rpg. Troy Lewis; Fe., guard, 6-4, 185 lbs., I 0.1 ppg, 1.9 rpg. Steve Reid; Sr., guard, 5-9, 175 lbs., I;~. 5 ppg, 2.I rpg. T9p substitutes are: Mack Gadis; )c., guard, 6-1, 178lbs. RobertLittlejohn; Jr., center, 6-9, 207lbs. 
•Strengths andweaknesses: The most noticeable strength on this Purdue squad is its experience. The E;oilermakers are led by its three seniors, Atkinson, Bullock and Reid. 1be three veterans started all 28 games for Purdue in the regular sea5on, and Bullock and Reid have led the team in scoring with their double-figure averages. Reid also has dished off 166 assists over the course ofthe season. 
"I think any team that has scoring J'ocwards has a chance to win at any level," Purdue coach Gene Keady says. He also stresses the de­fensive skills ofhis seniors. Bullock u:mally does a good job guarding opponents' big men, and Atkinson takes care of the shooting guard 
or forward. 
Purdue is able to play the fast game and the slow-tempo game equally well, according to Keady. like most Big Ten teams, the Boilermakers like to play the physical game when they get a chance. lbeir size, however, could be a factor that limits their ability to push people around in the tournament. J.a,:k ofsize also has kept Purdue fairly even with its opponents on the boards. 
•Coaching staff: Head coach Gene Keady is in his fifth year at the helm for the Boilermakers. He has compiled an 82-41 record at Purdue, following two years at Western Kentucky, where he was 38-19. Keady has coached three teams to the NCAA tournament and has taken two to the NIT. 
Keady has two full-time assistants, Bruce Weber, who is in his fifth year as a Purdue coach, and Paul Curlis, who is in his third year with the Boilermakers. Pact-time assistant Tony Branch and graduate as­sistant Kevin Stalling round out the s1all. 
"Our stall is very compatible," Keady says. "It really has been a happy basketball family." 
•How 
they gothere: The Boilermakers have a 20-8 record coming into the tournament. They won 12 of 16 games at home and went 1 1-7 in the Big Ten. Purdue has won its last two games, and won as many as seven in a row during the regular season. The Boilermakers have outscored their opponents by at1 average offive points a game. 

•Post-season 
experience: Purdue has played in post-season tour­naments in 11 of the last 16 years. l11e Boilermakers played in the NCAAs each of the last two years, wi:ming two games in 1983 and falling, 66-48, in the first round to Memphis State last season. 


"I think since we were in(the tournament) last year, we know sort ofwhat it's about," Atkinson says. "Hopefully, that will help us in the stretch." 

Aubwn University 
•Locadon: 
Auburn, Ala. •Enrollment: 18,600 

•Colors: 
Burnt Orange and Navy Blue 

•Nickname: 
Tigers 

•Conference: 
Southeastern 


•Personnel: 
Probable starters are: 
ChuckPerson; Jr., forward, 6-8, 215 lbs., 22.3 ppg, 9.0 rpg. 
jeffMoore; Fe., forward, 6-7, 220 lbs., 8.6 ppg, 7.3 rpg. 
ChrisMorris; Fe. center, 6-7, 185lbs., 10.3 ppg, 4.9 rpg. 
Frank Ford; So., guard, 6-4, 210 lbs., 11.1 ppg, 4.7 rpg. 
Gerald White So. guard, 6-1, 175lbs., 8.0 ppg, 2.5 rpg. 
Top substitutes are: 
CareyHolland; Sr., forward/center, 6-7, 230 lbs. 
Terrance Howard; Fe., guard, 6-1, 165 lbs. 
johnnyLynn; Fe., guard, 6-2, 170 lbs. 
•Strengths and weaknesses: "Basically what we are is a very young basketball team that matured late," Tigers head coach Sonny Smith says. Auburn starts two freshmen, two sophomores and a junior, and there is only one senior on the squad. The young players definitely have been on a roll lately, though, which gives them a boost coming into the tournament. But if they run out of gas now, they could be in trouble. 
It was defense that won the Southeastern Athletic Conference 
tournament for the Tigers. The team's depth is limited. "We have 
one great player," Smith says, "and some very good role players." 
That great player is Chuck Person, the oldest starter, who leads the 
team with his 22.3 points and nine rebounds a game. 
The Tigers will have to overcome some internal weaknesses if 
they are to be victorious in the tournament. Auburn does not have a 
particularly big or quick team, in the assessment of its head coach. 
He also says that he is concerned about the Tigers' lack of experi­
ence and the trouble they have executing the offense. 
Smith also claims, however, that Auburn has shot over 50 percent in its last 13 games. In addition, his bench, which was inconsistent at the beginning ofthe season, has come on strong to help the team in recent weeks. 
If the Tigers continue to get solid play from their thin, young bench, they may succeed, but Smith says he is concerned that his team might be worn out after its four Southeastern Conference tournament games. "We dressed out a guy called Emotional High for about four straight days," Smith says, "but I don't know ifEmotional made the trip." 
•Coaching staff: Smith, who is called Sonny by his players (out of respect, he says), announced his retirement at midseason. He said that he had completed what he had come to do at Auburn. His ac­complishments in seven years there include a 103-99 record and two consecutive NCAA tournament bids. Smith previously compiled a record of 30-23 in two years at East Tennessee State. 
Smith is assisted by Tevester Anderson, in his fourth year at Auburn, Mack McCarthy, in his seventh year at Auburn and 1Oth with Smith, and first-year coach Lawrence johnson. 
•How they got here: The Tigers surprised many people by "maturing," as Smith says, late in the season and winning the Sout· heastern Conference tournament. Auburn ended the season with a 
· 20-11 record, despite a schedule that was rated by the NCAA com­puter as the second-toughest non-conference schedule in the country and the fourth-toughest overall. The Tigers were 8-10 in the SEC, and they now are riding a five-game winning streak. 
•Post-season experience: Last year was Auburn's first appearance in post-season play other than the SEC tournament. The Tigers were upset by Richmond, 72-7l, in the first round. 
Ifthe Tigers can continue to play as they did in the South.eastern Conference tournament and iftheir hero, Emotional High, is on their side, Auburn could make it to Round Two for the first time in its 
history. 
University ofNorth Carolina 
•Location: 
Chapel Hill, N.C. •Enrollment: 21,757 

•Colors: 
Carolina Blue and White 

•Nickname: 
Tar Heels 

•Conference: 
Atlantic Coast 


•Personnel: 
Probable starters are: BradDaugherty; )c., center, 6-11, 240 lbs., 17.3 ppg, 9.6 cpg. joe Wolf; So., forward, 6-10, 235 lbs., 9.1 ppg, 5.0 rpg. DavePopson; So., forward, 6-10,210 lbs., 6.2 ppg, 2.5 rpg. SteveHale; Jr., guard, 6-3, 180 lbs., 10.8 ppg, 166 assists. Kenny Smith; So., guard, 6-3, 165lbs., 12.5 ppg, 212 assists. 
Top substitutes are: WaTTenMartin; Jr., center, 6-11 1/2, 2<f0 lbs. Curtis Hunter; So., swingman, 6-4 1/2, L93lbs. Bu=Peterson; Sr., guard, 6-5, 180 lbs. Ranzino Smith; Fe., guard, 6-1, 189 lbs. 
•Strengths and Weaknesses: Noeth Carolina's greatest asset is its size. The Tar Heels have the luxury offour players who stand 6-10 or taller. "You can make jokes all you wmt about their height," says Middle Tennessee State head coach Bruce Stewart, "but when they toss the ball up, we'll have to deal with it." Three ofthe four are often in the game at any one time, giving the Tar Heels the ability to over­power many teams inside. Daugherty, Hn All-Atlantic Coast Confer­ence selection, has come on lately, ave raging 17.5 ppg and 10.4 rpg in his last 13 games. 
-. The Tar Heels also benefit greatly frosn point guard Smith's playmaking ability. A Second team All-ACC selection, Smith leads the team with his 212 assists. An excelle.nl transition player, Smith has been able to master Noeth Carolina'! patterned offense as well. 
But aside from the speedy Smith, the Tar Heels lack the quickness that has marked Noeth Carolina teams ofrecent years. 

•Coaching 
staff: No preview of the Tar Heels would be complete without mentioning Dean Smith. Considered one of the best, if not the best, coaches in the nation, Smith is making his eleventh straight NCAA appearance with the Tar Heels. This season perhaps has shown the true coaching talent ofSmith. Although most people did not expect the Tar Heels to perform well after the loss of Michael Jordan, Sam Perkins, and Matt Doherty, Smith has produced an ex­cellent squad that tied for first in the ACC during the regular season, and lost to Georgia Tech by three points in the conference tourna­ment. Smith holds a 28-15 record in NCAA tournament play. 

•How
theygothere:The Tar Heelsstarted the season as a team that appeared suspect on paper. Many expects picked Noeth Carolina to drop from the heights ofthe ACC after the loss of)ordan, Perkins and Doherty. So the Tar Heels quickly went out and proved the "expects" wrong by finishing first in the ACC, extendinga streak that has seen North Carolina finish either first or second in the confer­ence for each t>f the last 19 years. 


The Tar Heels started the season with eight straight wins. "Before the season even started, people really had written us off," says Daug­herty. "We all felt that we had a little to prove to ourselves and others." Except for a few minor slumps in the middle of the season, the Tar Heels continued to play excellent basketball, ending up the season 24-8 and seventh-ranked in the nation after the close loss to Georgia Tech in the ACC finals. 
•Post-season experience: Although Dean Smith and the Noeth Carolina basketball program will appear for the eleventh straight time in the NCAA tournament, the present players do not have much post-season experience. Kenny Smith and Daugherty are the only starters back from last year's NCAA tournament squad, while Hale, Peterson, Popson and Wolfalso saw some playing time. But last year, all of them were members ofa supporting cast for a team on which jordan and Perkins starred. In this year's NCAA tournament, they will be asked to carey the load by themselves, something they have done very well all season. It remains to be seen ifthey can continue this performance in the tournament. 
-
Dean Smith 
UNC head coach 

The Observer Thursday, March 14, 1985 -page 14 
Plays in Baltimore over break 
ND lacrosse looks to defend title 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
Best in the Midwest. That title 

sounded so nice to the Notre Dame 
lacrosse team last season when it put 
on a late-season spurt to capture the 
Midwest Lacrosse Association cham­
pionship, a feat that gave the Irish a 
legitimate claim to being the best 
lacrosse team west of the Appalac­
hians. 
But what was nice a year ago means trouble this season as Rich O'Leary's Notre Dame squad tries to adjust to its unfamiliar position as King of the Hill. Despite the fact that the Irish lost little to graduation, they realize that every other team in the conference will be aiming to knock them off their perch. 
"We didn't lose much from last year's team and, because we ended so strong, we gained a lot of confi­dence," says O'Leary, who begins his fifth year as Notre Dame coach. "Still, we realize that everyone will be shooting for us. We had some close games which we were very 
fortunate to win last year, so we 
know we have to work even harder 
this year." 
The 1985 lacrosse team has one major advantage over past teams, though, and that is namely experi­ence. For the first time, O'Leary will not have to rely on freshmen to fill in gaps in the starting lineup. With 19 letterwinners returning, the Irish 
will be able to field an entire team of players with rwo or more years of experience. 
"All the experience really makes me feel good," says O'Leary. "We don't have gaps that we have to fill with the freshmen, so we don't have to throw them in before they're really ready." 
Notre Dame will need all its expe­rience when it opens the 1985 season over break with four games in Baltimore. a place where lacrosse enjoys huge popularity. The team will take on Vermont (March 18) and Duke (March 20), before taking part in the Loyola ( Md.) Tourna­ment on the weekend of March 23­
24. Loyola, Delaware and New Hampshire also are in the tourney field. 
Each ofthe Eastern opponents, es­pecially the teams in the Loyola tournament, will present the Irish with some tough competition. Not only have most of them already started their seasons, but they also have one major advantage over Notre Dame -they grant scholar­ships. 
In the past. the Irish have had some problems with their Eastern opponents, even though they do fare well against the Midwestern part of the schedule. Three years ago, for in­stance, Notre Dame played in the Loyola Tournament and was destroyed by the host team, 27-10. 
However, the Irish have improved a 
great deal each year and O'Leary 
hopes his squad can earn some 
respect in the East with a good 
showing during the trip. 
"Whatever impact we're going to have on a national level is going to happen during this trip," says O'Leary. "We'd like to have a good showing in the East and show people what we're doing with our program. 
"Still, our main goal is to win the conference and I'd like to do it a little easier this time. We're capable of beating everyone, and we can have a very successful season by doing just that." 
Whether the Irish actually do beat everyone in the MLA will rely, in a large part, on the play of senior co­captains Bob Trocchi and Justin Shay. Trocchi, an attackman, was Notre Dame's leading scorer last year with 36 goals and 12 assists, in­cluding the game-winner in an I 1­10 win over Michigan State that gave the Irish the MLA title. The Sudbury, Mass., native should become Notre Dame's all-time scoring leader 
despite playing only three seasons with the Irish. 
Shay, on the other hand, will be part ofthe starting defensive unit for the fourth straight season. He has been first-team All-Midwest for the past two years and is considered, as is Trocchi, as a bonafide all-America candidate. 
Trocchi and Shay will lead a team 

that has plenty of experienced 
players and talented newcomers, 
some of whom will contribute al­
most immediately. 
Nowhere is this more evident than in the attack where Trocchi is joined on the first unit by juniorJoe Franklin, the second-leading scorer on the team last year ( 21 goals, 12 assists) and senior Kevin Rooney ( 5 goals, 1 assist). These three will be backed up by some unfamiliar faces 
in sophomores john McLachlan, Jim Shields and Kevin Cullinan, and freshman Frank O'Brien. 
McLachlan, who did not play last season, has been especially effective in the preseason practices and is ex­pected to play a major role at either attack or midfield despite his small 5-5 stature. 
"John is an amazing little player," says O'Leary. "He has extremely good stick protection and is in the best condition on the team. He should really help us out." 
There are plenty of familiar faces among the midfielders, but some of the veterans are going to have to pick up the slack caused by the graduation losses of Steve Pearsall, Mike Quinn and Kevin Smith. 
The leadership most likely will come from one of the first rwo lines, which are manned by experienced players. Juniors Mark Steranka and Tom Grote, and senior John Wilson will be looked to to provide some 

2.1-2-0312 Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 277-1619 We are only minutes from campus 
scoring punch in order to take some ofthe scoring pressure offthe attack. They will be backed up by joe Hart, Tim Corrigan and Dave O'Brien on the second line, while freshmen John Burtis, john McNicholas and Tom Lanahan wait in the wings. juniors Tony Rettino and Bob Carillo will handle the faceoff duties. 
On the defensive end of the field, Shay will be joined by junior Mike Rice and sophomore Wally Stack. Converted midfielder Dwayne Hicks, Randy McDonald, Ed Phillips and Steve Cloud will provide some depth. 
The goalkeeping duties arc once again in .the capable hands of Rob Simpson, a senior who has started since he was a freshman. Last year he stopped an impressive 70 percent of the opponents' shots and has been even more impressive in practice. Another freshman, Matt McQuillan, will serve as his backup. 
"I think we have a very balanced 
team," explains O'Leary. "The first 
few games are going to be very diffi­
cult, and I am worried that ifwe play 
poorly, it might carry over. But I 
don't want to play teams just to get a 
win. By playing better teams, we can 
learn from what they're doing and 
be better for it when we play the 
conference teams. 
"I'm not worried about getting 
into the NCAAs right now, so we 
don't need wins when we play tough 
teams. We can lose and gain lots of 
valuable experience." 
IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame's ho(lle and MLA opener will be Wed­nesday, March 27, when Lake Forest visits Cartier Field for a 3:30 p.m. 
game. 



Th~ Observer/File Photo 

The Irish lacrosse team will undoubtedly benefit thisyearfrom the leadership of senior co-captain justin Shay, a starter in Notre Dame's defensive unit for the fourth straight year and an all­America candidate. Mike Sullivan previews the season, which begins next week, at left. 

. ,& 
TONIGHT! St. Pat's Party 
3/$1 Buds and Bud Lights 
Green carnations to thefirst 1 00 ladies Watch the game with us on big-screen TV 



-
Little Kings l/2bbl 31.99 Hamms l/2bbl 27.99 
Budweiser Quarts $9.49 
Order your Green Kegs 
I 




~~~C3l~-------------------------------------Th ~_c_h_I_4_,1_9_8_S_.__
__u_r_sd_a_y_,M__ P_a_ge--15­Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
Campus 
•II
:30 a.m. -I:30 p.m. -Mexican Benefit Lunch, Center for Social Concerns. 

•I 
-4 p.m. · AdministrationofMeaslesVaccina­tions, Student Health Center, Free. 

•7 
p.m. -Thursday Night Film Series, "The Miracle," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7, 
9 & II p.m.-Fihn, "And Now For Something Completely Different," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, SI. 

•7-9:30p.m. 
-Ice Skating Party, ACC Ice Rink, li 1, Proceeds go to ND Millions Against MS. 

•7:30 
p.m. · Lecture, "What is Art?" Colqr, Prof. Harold Zisla, IUSB, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -Student Senior Recital, Chris Vieck,


Kevin Walsh
Zeto 
SMC Senior, Soprano, Little Theatre. 
•9 p.m. -Senior St. Pat's Bash, Senior Bar, Free Green Carnations to First IOO People. 
TV Tonight 
6:30p.m. 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 28 ABC's Nightly News 
7:00p.m. 16 M0A0S0H 22 Three's Company 28 jeopardy 
7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 2 22 WKRP in Cincinnati 
28 Wheel ofFortune 


8:00p.m. 16 Bill Cosby Show 22 Magnum, PI 28 Movie 34 In Search of Excellence 
8:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 9:00p.m. 16 Cheers 22 The 11th Annual People's Choice 
Awards 9:30p.m. 16 Night Court 10:00p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 
28 20/20 34 A Passion for Excellence: An Evening With Tom Peters 
ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Body Electric 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 NCAAPlayofli> 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Movie· Darkjourney 
12:00a.m. 28 Love Connection 12:30a.m. ,16 Late Night With David Letterman 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Tille modem lion 

50 Ignores 58 Eagle's home 52-Ness 59 Icelandic tale 54 Scratches out 60 At hand 
The Daily c:rossword 
56 Egyptian dam 62 Camera part 57 City on the 66 "-on parle..." Lys 67 -pro nobis 
39 Distant 71 B.A. word 12 King of comedy ACROSS 41 Chaneyof 72 Schoolyard 13 Columnist Wednesday's Solution 1 Use acid films insult Barrettartistically 42 Wanderer 73 Chipin 18 Type face: abbr. r:":~';';"';~~~~~~:;;~~~5 Parlor seats 
44 Car of yore 23 Consumed10 Open 45 Saws DOWN 25 Headpiece for 14 Kind of rubber 48 Capri or Wight 1 Solar-lunar "The Saint" 15-Gay time span 27 Chemical16 -contendere 49 Utah at first 2 No-no compounds17 US president 51 Vend 29 Taste19 Eastern prince 
3 Move furtively 4 Falstaff's 
53 Romantic 31 Nuncupative 
20 Iowa college runaway 32 Sally of space
buddy
21 Asian weight 55 Cruise 33 Wit 
5 Lawmaker
22 Actress Durbin 59 Wishful one 34 To shelter 24 Formal lid 61 Guinness _ 35 US president
6 Story opener 7 Court figures 
26 Fruit of the 63 Reserved 37 Machine part 
maple 64 Medal behavior 40 Danish island 28 Off-center 65 US president 8 Completely group 30 "Carmen" role 68 Over hill and -9 Alias for 43 Slick 33 Bumpkin of old 69 Detect in a Morpheus 46 Pushdown 36 Wise. city way 10 Turk. city 47 Three score 38 Onassis 70 Sari wearer 11 US president and ten 
3/14/85 


The ND Student Activiities Board is now accepting applications for the ·ss-'86 school year for the positions of ... 
STUDENT MANAGERS 
of 

DARBY'S PLACE ROCK DULAC RECORDS THE UNDERGROUND STUDENT SAVER 

NOW SHOWING at your local theatre 
(Engineering Auditorium) 
...... 

Applications available in thE~ SAB Office -2nd Floor LaFortune Deadline: Thursday, Mardt 28th Interviews begin March 28th 

---~----­

Thursday, March 14, 1985 -page 16 
Irish begin their second season against Beavers 
Oregon State looking to pound the boards in first-round game at ACC 
ByJEFF BLUMB Oregon State head coach Ralph Miller. "We Assistant Sports Editor are not deep, and you lose the edge in condi­tioning and for game time preparation. We've 
One year ago today, the Notre Dame basket­been relying on five or six players and I felt the hall team began a two-week journey to the fatigue factor hurt us. I think we are coming finals of the National Invitation Tournament. back now, however." Tonight, the Irish hope to begin a similar trip, Fatigue has cut into the Oregon State style only this time in the NCAA Tournament, when of play lately. Known for their 40-minute they fdce Oregon State at 9:37 in the ACC. For pressing defense, the Beavers were forced to those without tickets, the game will be move away from that against USC. The same 
telecast live on WNDU-TV ( Ch. 16 ). may be true tonight. 
The Beavers come to South Bend after "l don't think we've quite recovered," Mil­closing out a 22-8 season last Saturday with ler says. "We may be somewhat conservative in the first half with the press. But our philoso­phy has always been to slow the break before it gets momentum; we're not going to take
1985NCAA~ 
that out ofour game."

CHAMPIONSHI:@ 
Expect tonight's match-up to be a battle un­der the boards. Notre Dame ranks ninth in the NCAA with a plus-7.7 rebounding differential and will attempt to take advantage of its 60-"i8 overtime win at USC. Third-place finis­
strength underneath. Oregon State thinks it is hers in the Pac-1 0 with a 12-6 record, Oregon 
ready to face up to the challenge.Stare began the season by rolling up I c; vic­
"I know we'll have to be more aggressivetories in its first 16 games, reaching as high as 
with them and use our own muscle,'' says A.C. IOth in the Associated Press poll. 
Green, Oregon State's leading scorer and But as the season wore on, injuries and 
rebounder at 18.8 and 9.1, respectively. "I fatigue took <:ontrol, and the Beavers could 
know myself. I plan to be more aggressive." manage only a 7-7 record over the season's 
"Our goal will be to keep them off the 
final 14 games. ~ lack of depth didn't help the The Irish may be without the seroices of
boards," adds Miller, who has spent 15 years at 
situation much. junior forward Ken Barlow when they
Oregon State and 33 years at the college level. 
"Our problems stemmed from all the take on Oregon State to11igh,aat 9:37 in an nicking-type injuries we had in january," says see BEAVERS, page 9 NG4A Tournament first-round contest. 
Tourney is a major happening for Notre Dame 
By MARC RAMIREZ favorite teams watched players practicing on and practice-space availability for spring Thirty phone lines instead of the usual 10 Sports Writer a court bordered by NCAA decor. sports teams. But it was accomplished with a were allocated for press purposes. Press 

In the ACC Monogram Room, places were little planning, and the result is two-game ses­releases were produced by the dozen to keep 
A few days ago, the Notre Dame Athletic set for a special luncheon and dinner. In the sions today with hour-long breaks in between. the media informed. and Convocation Center was practically Office of Sports Information, meticulously "That gives our crews time to clean the place "More than anything, we've just had to let empty. Today, it will be a carefully planned, timed schedules were ironed over and out and make it ready for the second session. people know what's going on, keep things or­well-orchestrated machine housing approxi­reservations verified. Outside of this inner It's going to make for a very long day, but we ganized and ready to go," Heisler says. mately 12,000 persons as the NCAA Southeast world, fans with tickets prepared themselves knew that when we put in our bid more than a Although today signals the third time that Regional gets underway with four first-round for the likes ofNorth Carolina, Kansas, Auburn year ago." Notre Dame has hosted NCAA post-season contests. and Oregon State. And, of course, Notre The long days began for the Office ofSports tournament games, this experience is some· 
Dame. Information several days ago. "We had to try what different. "Before, we've hosted tourna­
Yesterday afternoon the tense, electric at­It is a major happening. to prepare for the onslaught of phone calls ments with only four teams playing," notes mosphere of tournament conditions had "We're used to big-time events here;" says which we knew we'd receive," says Associate Heisler. "But this time it's double that. We've begun to set in, as the pieces of the prepara­Mike Danch, ACC general manager. Sports Information Director john Heisler, "as never had eight teams at a site. tion puzzle fell into place. Table after table "However, life doesn't just stop because ofthe well as make sure everyone had hotel space, "This is precedent-setting. There's nothing was set up, row upon row; TV cameras were NCAA Tournament. The biggest obstacle and that we had a place for press conferences to fall back on." placed into proper position; members of .the we've confronted has been to schedule the and a working press room." But there are other examples to learn from, press procured credentials and observed the tournament around everything else." Press headquarters for the approximately and Marquette University was studied "to see festive application oflast-minute touchs: and Six games in three days can be quite a prob­260 members of the media who are in town curious fans bearing caps and T-shirts of their lem to schedule around the likes ofP.E. classes was set uo at the South Bend Holiday Inn. see TOURNEY, page 10 
ND women's tennis team starts '85 well by winning first three matches 
By MARlY BURNS toughest schedule we have ever as well as Florida Southern, Califor­Sports Writer played, and the majority ofthe teams nia Poly Pomona, Stetson, Abilene we play are Division I schools." Christian, and Auburn. The tourna­
While the excitement generated So far on the young season, the ment also should present to the Irish among the Notre Dame student seventh-year coach has had no rea­a chance to experience the type of body over the long-awaited arrival son to worry. Notre Dame posted a pressure conditions which they will of springtime has been intense, it perfect 5-0 dual match record in the face later in the season and in the cannot compare to the excitement fall, good for a j'qorth Star Confer­NCAAs. felt by the Notre Dame women's ten­ence championship, and it has won nis team as it embarked last week convincingly its first three matches "This spring tournament is quite upon its seven-week spring in the spring, against Big-10 teams important," says Petro. "Six of the schedule. from Purdue, Iowa, and Ohio State. teams competing are good Division 
The anticipatio·n can be under­II teams, and Auburn is a good Divi­
stood, for Irish Head Coach Sharon "I was very pleased with those vic­sion I team." Petro and her tennis squads have tories," adds Petro. "We had a good "Also," continues the Irish men­finished third in in NCAA Division II autumn, and it has carried over so tor, "we will have two matches per 
tennis the past two years. With eight far. We beat three Big-I 0 teams, and day for three days, which is goodplayers returning from last year's 25-they were Division I teams." practice for the NCAA tournament." 5 team, and with the experience of The 3-0 Irish now will go back to 
... 
the past two NCAA tournaments, it practice before heading south on Indeed, the practice should come should be an even stronger force Friday to partake in the Florida in handy, for Notre Dame certainly this season. Southern Tournament on March 20-has the experience and depth neces· "I think we have improved," says 23. This tournament promises to be sary to make the NCAA tournament Petro, "and it has really shown so far. another great challenge to the field. The Irish appear especially
Lisa LaFratta, senior co-captain ofthe Notre Dame women's ten­
squad, since several of the compet­strong in the singles lineup, as they
nis team, had a solid season last year, posting 26from the second 
"Our goal this year is to win the ing teams are top-flight Division II boast six talented players, of whom 
singles spot, while also notching seven wins in doubles play. Her 
national championship. But we can't schools. The Irish will face Southern 
3-0 record this season has helped the Irish win their first three 
afford to let down and just wait until Illinois-Edwardsville, which finished see TENNIS, page 10 
matches ofthe spring. 

the end to start working. This is tl.e second in NCAA Division II last year, 




