Sleep -page 7 

VOL XX, NO. 26 
'21 club' needs only student initiative 
By DAN EARNER 
News Staff 
Campus social life could soon have an added dimension for those of legal Indiana drinking age. The "21 club," proposed by Stanford Hall president Jim Crandall and Lewis Hall president Mimi Soule at a recent HPC meeting, will take on the form of Informal gatherings where al· cohol could be served. 
It will not be a campus-wide club, but an opportunity for 21-year-olds co Informally socialize with others in their own or neighboring dorms. The proposal is an attempt to utilize idle social space in the dorms, ac­cording to Soule and Crandall. 
Crandall and Soule met with As­sociate Vice President for Residence Ufc: John Goldrick on Friday in order to determine If the proposal was in conflict with the current University alt·ohol policy. 
The main obstacle in getting the idea off the ground was a stipulation in the University alcohol policy re­quiring a guest list for all events where alcohol would be served. 
Crandall, Soule, and Goldrick agreed this would be possible by limiting the number allowed to enter the specific dorms. The guest list would consist of names of all residents in the participating dorms who are 21 years old or older. 
Each dorm is now free to talk to their rectors and organize their own 21 clubs within their own hall government's guidelines, according 10 Soule and Crandall. 
Both said they see their idea as an alternative for seniors who want to stay on campus. Because it is not going to be campus-wide, the two do not foresee any conflicts ofinter­est with the Alumni-Senior Club. 
Both of the hall presidents said they are glad the way things turned out. "We wanted to keep it small and informal," Crandall said. 
"We think it will be more fun this 
see 21 CLUB, page 3 
~ .~ 
A Class act 
The Class of 1986 celebrated before the Notre Lafayette. Despite an Irish loss, this class appears to 
Dame-Purdue game by sponsoring this tailgater have indulged in life's simpler pleasures and 
outside of Ross-Ade Stadium in far-away West enjoyed themselves accordingly. 



Student cable televsion committee plans to bring coaxial to campus 
By MARK DICKINSON 
News Staff 
HBO, ESPN, and MTV soon could arrive on Notre Dame campus. 
Last Wednesday night, N9tre Dame sophomore Vince Willis held a meeting in LaFortune to organize a committee to start looking into the idea ofcable television. 
lbe committee plans to contact cable companies, satellite dish com­panies, and other universities cur­rently subscribing to cable television to get an idea of the feasibility ofcable at Notre Dame. 
Willis said he hopes to present a proposal for cable to the University before the spring of 1986. 
The issue ofcable has been raised in the past, but no groups have succeeded with the idea and its problems. Willis admits "there are many problems in bringing cable here such as cost, regulating chan­nels, and defacing the campus." Yet, Willis said he believes his commit­tee can overcome these problems and "make cable TV work where ot· hers have failed." 
Willis approached Vice President for Student Affairs Father Tyson with his committees thoughts last week and said, "Tyson supports the idea of 
looking into cable but has hesita­tions." Tyson could not be reached for comment. 
Willis said he sees the adoption of cable "as an alternative to the al­cohol policy." He also said he feels it could "be the greatest thing to hap­pen to this campus in a long time." 
If everything runs smoothly, Wil­lis said he believes Notre Dame students will be watching cable television in their rooms within the next three years. 
The committee will be sponsor­ing a meeting for those interested Thursday Oct. 3, at 6 p.m. in the stu­dent government office. 


J-council: Observer not accountable to senate 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
Copy Editor 
A Student Senate resolution re­
quiring The Observer to disclose its 
financial statements would have "no 
power or authority backing" it, ac­
cording to a statement released 
Friday by Karen Ingwersen, judicial 
council coordinator, after Thursday 
night's council meeting. 
"They can't touch it (The Obser­ver). '(1tey can pass resolutions right and left, but they can't force The Ob­server to open its books," Ingwersen said Thursday night. 
"The Student Senate can force the opening of The Observer's books only by convincing the administra· lion to force The Observer to do so," her statement said. 
lbe senate has no power in the matter, she said, because "they don't control Its (The Observer's) budget." 
Ingwersen's statement was released after a council debate regarding a possible senate resolu­tion requiring The Observer to open its books. 
The senate had discussed at its meeting last Monday whether it should pass such a resolution, but no final action was taken. 
Several council members debated the issue at Thursday night's meeting, which like the senate's, ended with no final action taken. 
"There's a distinction between the activity fee and The Observer fee. It's still is an independent newspaper," said Mary Mullaney, council member.' · 
"If it's an independent business, student government doesn't have the right to go through its records just like they don't have the right to go through any business in the South Bend community," Mullaney said. 
Council member Kathy Weisenberger disagreed with Mul­laney. 
"The issue is QOt fiscal control, they just want to see the records," Weisenberger said. "It is a student newspaper. Ifit's really for all of us, they should open the books." 
The issue arose after 12 student leaders voted two weeks ago to re­quest that The Observer open its books and allow them to monitor its expenditures. 
Observer Editor-in-Chief Sarah Hamilton declined the request. 
In other council business Thursday night, Weisenberger, chairman of the Judiciary Commit­tee, told the council that the judicial Board system will be revised on a two-year basis. 
The reason for the revision, she said, was because of the lack ofcon· sistency from one dorm's Judicial Board to another's. 
"John Goldrick {associate vice president for student affairs) thinks the Judicial Board system is ar­chaic," she said. "We could create some solid, lasting improvements. It could serve as a standard for years to come." 
Also discussed at Thursday night's meeting was the issue of how the senate should allot the approximate $10,000 in additional student ac­tivity fees that recently became available. 
Ingwersen, who represents the council on the senate, said she was seeking input on how she should vote on a proposal which would create a separate senate account. Ac­cording to the proposal, the senate 
see OBSERVER, page 3 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1985 
36 injured, 45 arrested, in Brixton rioting 
LONDON -Bulldozers shoved 
burned-out cars offthe streets while 
shopkeepers boarded up broken 
windows yesterday in the racially 
mixed slum district ofBrixton after a 
night ofrioting erupted when police 
shot and wounded an unarmed 
black woman. 
A dozen stores were gutted, 26 civilians and I 0 policemen suffered minor injuries and 45 people were arrested in seven hours of rioting, police said. It was the second racial riot in three weeks in a British urban slum district. 
Scotland Yard said Brixton in South London erupted Saturday night after pollee looking for a youth believed armed with a shotgun burst Into a home and shot his unarmed mother in her bedroom. It called the incident a well-planned operation "that went tragically wrong." 
But youths, most of them black, marched to the Brlxton police sta­tion and began hurling firebombs, paving stones, bottles and pieces of lumber. Stores were looted, cars and trucks overturned and set alight. 
Just three weeks earlier, the Hand­sworth district of Birmingham, home to predominantly West Indian blacks, went up in flames In a riot that black leaders said was prompted by a police crackdown on drug trafficking. 
For Brixton, it was the third riot since April 1981. 
"Brlxton is a cauldron which has been simmering for a long time," said local councilor Paul Boateng. 
"It took this incident for It to boil 
over," he said. "But it could have 
happened any time because there is 
a lot of bitterness and alienation felt 
by young people who have no status 
in society." 
The injured woman, Cherry Groce, 38, spent the night In the in­tensive care unit at St. Thomas Hospital with bullet fragments ln her spine. Doctors said it was too early to tell whether she was paralyzed. 
Boateng, who is a lawyer and who visited the family, said Mrs. Groce "Would sue the police. 
The Yard immediately called in a top police officer from another force, Assistant Chief Constable John Domallle of West Yorkshire, to conduct an inquiry. 
Neil Kinnock., leader of the socialist opposition Labor Party, demanded a separate inquiry headed by a judge. The party's domestic affairs spokesman: Gerald Kaufman, accused the police of operating under a "shoot-to-kill policy." 
But Home Secretary Douglas Hurd ruled out a judicial inquiry saying that one held .by Lord Scar­man after the 1981 rioting had been exhaustive and "a great deal has been acted on." 
Labor Party members said jobless­ness, running at a record 13.2 per­cent nationwide and exceeding 40 percent among urban blacks, was a key cause of the violence. 


The Observer Monday, September 30,. 1985 -page 2 




In Brief 

·Kevin Hurley, the Howard Hall freshman injured in a hit-and-run accident Sept. 7, was transferred to the intermediate care unit Saturday evening, a Memorial Hospital nurse said last night. Hurley remained in stable condition and in a coma, she said. He will be transferred at the end of the week to a hospital in Massachusetts to "facilitate hospital visits for his parents," she said. Hurley is recovering from multiple head and abdominal injuries suffered in the early morning accident. -Tbe Observer 
Dean of Continuing Education at Notre Dame, Thomas Bergin has been elected vice chairman ofthe newly­formed Arts Midwest Association. The action came at a historic meeting held recently in Minneapolis where the directors for two multi-state organizations announced plans to combine resources and form a nine-state arts group. -Tbe Observer 
Father Robert Pelton, director of Notre Dame's Institute for Clergy Education, will become director of the Univer­sity's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry next year. The ap­pointment, which becomes effective at the beginningofthe 1986-87 academic year, was made by Professor Timothy O'Meara, provost. -
Tbe Observer 

Chasity Gibson, the 2-year-old Uniontown, Ky., girl considered the nation's No. 1 candidate to receive a new liver, was in critical but stable condition yesterday in Chicago after 13 hours of transplant surgery, a hospital spokeswoman said. Dr. james Williams and Dr. Santiago Vera completed the transplant about 4 p.m. without any major complications, said Mary Ann Redeker, a spokeswoman for Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center. "liver transplant surgery usually takes between eight and 12 hours, and children take longer because they are smaller," Redeker said. The donor organ came from a child in Minnesota, but Redeker said hospital policy prevented her from releasing more details about the donor. Gibson suffered from biliary atresia, a congenital disease that causes jaundice and early liver damage. She had been atop a nationwide emergency liver donor list since late August. -AP 
Of Interest 

Professor Peter Walshe, director of the African Studies department at Notre Dame, will give a lecture titled, "South Africa: The Current Crisis," as part ofthe Kellogg Seminars Program. The presentation will be tomorrow at noon in Room 131 of Decio Faculty Hall. Everyone is invited. -Tbe Observer 
Attention ND/SMC juniors! Saint Mary's junior class is sponsoring a trip to Chicago this Saturday, Oct. 5. Buses will leave LeMans parking lot at 10 a.m. and return Saturday night, leaving Chicago at midnight. Cost is n 5, and tickets are also available for the musical "Cats," for S25. Sign-ups will be in SAGA all this week. For more information, call Kristi McKasy at 284-4380. 
Tbe Observer 

Today is the last day to sign up for Friday's West Coast picnic. Residents ofwest coast states are invited to drop their S2 offin an envelope with their name on it to the Student Activities office in the LaFortune Student Center. -Tbe Observer 

Weather 
,. 

Rainy days and Mondays, they might get you down today. There is a 70 percent chance ofshowers today with the high between 60 and 65. Mostly cloudy with a 40 percent chance of showers tonight, with the lows between 45 and 50. Tomorrow there is a 20 percent chance of morning showers, then becoming partly sunny with the high in the mid 60s. -AP 

Ihe OhserYer­
1be Obeerver (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Obeerver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per year ( .20 per se· mester) by writing lbe Obeerver, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Obeerver is a member of lbe 
Aaeociated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Design Editor..............................Tom Small Design Assistant ..........................Andy Saal Ty~tters ...................................... Pat Clark 
Bill Highducheck News Edltor...............................John Heasly Copy Editor ........................ Margie Krrsten Sports Copy Editor........ Eric Schuermann VIewpoint Copy Editor.......Cindy Rauck· horst VIewpoint Layout ......•..•.•... Priscilla Karle Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy Features Layout ................... Ellyn Mastako ND DayEdttor................•.......!Umee Storin SMC DayEditor...•.•.•.•..•..•. MaryJean Sully Ad Design............•....•.. Catherine Ramsden 
Sarah Wolohan Photographer.......................... Paul Cif:lrelli 



Can SYRs, the CSC, and the ACC lead us to Orwell's '1984'? 
Question: When does a Notre Dame freshman 

become just another Notre Dame student? 
Answer: When he or she can use the "words" SYR, 

ACC and CSC without flinching. 
A strange definition for what it takes to be a real 

Domer? 
Not really. 
You can't become a true part of a group or organiza­

tion until you imow the language. And in today's acronym-ridden world learning the language often re­quires the deciphering skills of a master spy. 
Acronyms and other less elegant abbreviations are quickly taking over the language. Orwell stated in the appendix to "1984" that one of the goals of Newspeak, the language of his fictitious society, was to cut down the name of "every organization, or body of people, or doctrine, or country, or instituion, or public building" to a "single easily pronounced word with the smallest number ofsyllables." 
1984 has come and gone, but Orwell's description ofa thought-limiting language is more and more becoming an apt description of American English. 
Organizations are more often known by an acronym or some other abbreviation than they are by their real name. Even seemingly in­nocuous groups have sue-,\ cumbed to Orwell's principle. We've heard of CILA, MADD, SOLA, .CEASE and the YMCA. Yet how many of us know what the letters in these "names" represent? 
Often the acronyms become so much a part of common usuage that no one really knows what they mean. Almost no one is sure what SAGA, the food service at Saint Mary's, stands for, although some very creative guesses have been proposed. Words such as SCUBA, RADAR, and LASER are so much a part of our language that many people don't realize they are indeed acronyms. 
Our fast-paced society provides the most obvious reason for the extensive use of acronyms. People are always in a hurry, and this haste affects one's speech as well as one's driving. Who has time to say radio detect· ing and ranging when what they really mean is RADAR? 
But the need to rush is not the only reason acronyms have become so popular. 
The use ofabbreviated language within a group forms an air of elitism. Nearly every group or community is well-armed with esoteric abbreviations and acronyms. Those who know the language know what's happening; 
99.9 PERCENT 
That is the percentage of letters to the editor that we print.Write us. 
joe Murphy, Viewpoint Editor P.O.BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 



BANKING... 


ON CAMPUS AT SAINTMARY'S 
1st Source Bonk's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's o.od Notre Dome students and faculty lr\ addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 bonking 
locations to serve you! 

Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday-11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~ source 
..:sank
Join Michiono's 1stTeorn 
Member F.D.I.C.

for unsurpassed bonking service! 
HIIIIIIIHIIIIHNIHIIiHIIIHtiiHHHHIIIHIIII.........IIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII... 

Amy Stephan 
Managing Editor 
those who don't are left out ofthe conversation. You are not really part ofthe Army, or IBM, or Notre Dame until you speak their language. 
Not surprisingly, the groups with the most ex­tensively condensed vocabularies are those that deal with the most sensitive information -the government, the military and the technical industry. Any ROTC (an acronym) student will vouch for the fact that the military is heavily reliant on abbreviated words. And engineering students often have more difficulty decod­
ing all the acronyms in their textbooks than they do un­derstanding the concepts. 
These confidential or­ganizations, however, reap more benefits from their acronym-laden dialects than an air ofelitism. An acronym is a painless way to squeeze a complex thought into two syllables; one can blurt out an acronym without even considering the meaning be­hind it. 
LASER, for example, is a simple enough two syllable word that any third-grader can spell. Were one forced 
"!-~ to say instead light amplification by stim· ulated emission of 

electromagnetic radiation, one would be more aware of both the nature and the complexity of this two syllable word. 
Often, acronyms replace concepts that are too com­plex or too unsettling to think about. We can say MIRV or ICBM without really considering that we are discuss­ing lethal weapons. We can say a computer runs at so many MIPs with no need to comprehend how fast this really is. 
As Orwell says (once again in his appendix to "1984" ), "It was perceived that in thus abbreviating a name one narrowed and subtly altered its meaning, by cutting out most of the associations that would ot­herwise cling to it." We can sputter acronyms without thought, and thus protect ourselves from meanings we'd rather not consider. 
It would be impossible to free ourselves from the al­phabet soup that now flavors our language. Acronyms are definitely here to stay. 
But for the sake of your own sanity and the integrity of the English language, the next time you say SYR stop and think: What does this really mean? 
The Observer Monday, September 30, 1985-page 3 





Bridget's admissions reflect past legal action 
ByJOHN GORLA 
StaffReporter 
It was the time of the year for Bridget McGuire's Filling Station to renew its liquor license and for the first time In a while no one objected. 

On September 5 the tavern was fined U,500 and had Its license suspended for 1 0 days by the St. Joseph County Alcoholic Beverage Board because ofan incident in April in which 41 people were arrested on the charge of being minors in a tavern. 
Teresa Bauer, bar manager, at­tributed the unusually large crowds of last spring to the closing of Corby's and other local bars. "Since many of the students had nowhere to go they ended up at our doorstep," said Bauer. 
Bridget's now has a stricter policy for those who plan to enter the bar. 
"Now there will be mostly uni­formed police officers at the door," said Bauer, adding "You must have at least one picture ID and two others to back it up." 
"With the officers there it seems 
that people will be less likely to 
show false ID," mentioned Bauer, 
adding," The presence ofthe officers 
will add to the security of the sur­
rounding area and make it safer for 
local residents." 
The new procedure for checking ID's is not too di.fferent from how it has been in the past, except now police officers ace doing the check­Ing. "Police officers are more aware of how people falsify Identification than we ace at Bridget's," said Bauer. 
Bauer said she feels that having the police present will bring a safer atmosphere to the bar, especially for women. 
Arts and Letters career day 

ByJOSEPH DePIRO 
News Staff 
All students will have the op­portunity to attend the College of Arts and Letters Career Day on Wednesday, Oct. 2, from noon until 4 p.m. This event will be held In the lower level of the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
The Arts and Letters Career Day has been held the past six years and has been very in­formative, according to Paul Reynolds, assistant director of Career and Placement services, and coordinator of the event. 
Approximately 450 students attended last year, Reynolds said, adding although the event Is primarily for Arts and Letters stu­dents, all students can benefit from the day. "It's a perfect op­portunity to see a lot of career representatives gathered in a small place," Reynolds said. 

More than 30 careers will be represented such as banking, communications, and politics. 
Also present will be representatives from the fields of financial services, higher educa­tion, and paralegal. 
Although major companies and corporations will be sending repre~ntatives, Reynolds said 
By PEGGY PROSSER terence.
they will not be representing 
NBU'S Staff Mary Ann O'Donnell, director oftheir companies but rather student activities at Saint Mary's, will specific careers. 
Saint Mary's College will be represent the school as its profes­Much literature will be 
"reaching out" to host the 1985 As­sional delegate, and is responsible available, so if students ace 
sociation of College Unions­for bringing this year's conference unsure about a possible career, 
International this year. to the school. Lavezzorio will be the they can clear up questions and 
Delegates from colleges and Saint Mary's student representative. uncertainties by attending this 
universities in Indiana and Illinois "We're really excited that Saint event, Reynolds said. 
will converge on the Saint Mary's Mary's was chosen as this year's site. Also, later this year a govern­
campus Oct. 4 through 6 for the con­Our bid was put in a year ago, and ment day and law caravan ace 
ference. we're proud that It was accepted," planned, Reynolds added. 
"Reach Out" is the theme of this O'Donnell said. year's conference, and its logo is In past years, the conference has 
r------------------------------.. symbolic of student leaders reach-been held at some of the larger par­
What makes Mondayspecial? 
So make Monday special with our $7.99 Monday special. It's 
One call, 

available all evening every Monday. Only from Domino's 
three friends .•. 
Pizza". 

and our s7.99 Call us: 277-2151
Monday special. 

1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
One call to DOMINO'S PIZZA"' 

South Bend 
gets you our Monday special­

a 16-lnch, single topping plua Our dnvers carry l&ss than $20.00. No coupon 
lor just $7.99.1t's s great way necessary. Jus! requesllhe Monday special. 
to get together with three other ~~~;~;; g~~:.~~%~~v~~;~ g~sm~e.
students and enjoy a hot, P1zza.lnc custom-made plua lor about 
$2aach~ 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
And Domino J Pizza Delivers"' 
DELIVERS~

Fraa. In 30 minutes or less, or you get $3 off your order. FREE. 

ing out to peers and their interests, ticipating universities, such as according to Saint Mary's senior Purdue, University of Illinois, and Mary Beth Lavezzorio, student chair· Northern Illinois University. person ofthe event. "Usually a conference is held at a 
The ACU-I is an international large university, but we feel that 
union designed for all members of Saint Mary's has as much to offer as 
the college commul'lity -students, any of the larger schools, even 
faculty, administration, alumni and though we're smaller. I'm really 
guests. The union provides the looking forward to this," Lavezzorio 
services and conveniences com-said. 
munity members need in their dally Junior Jayne Akalaltis attended 
life. last year's conference as a 
Through its various boards, com-representative of the Saint Mary's mittees and staff, the union provides Programming Board. Akalaltis said a cultural, social and recreational she was happy to hear this year's program aiming to coordinate free-conference would be held on the time activity with study and educa-Saint Mary's campus. tion. Akalaltis said last year's con-
Most unions serve as hospitality ference was good and very In­centers for the colleges, providing formative and "we were able to facilities for parents, alumni and share our ideas, such as Octoberfest educational conferences. and AnTostal." 
The union is made up of student Featured speakers will be; Saint government leaders, Mary's professor of business and representatives, and professionals, economics Bill Shannon, speaking such as student activity directors, on "Marketing Your Programs;" food service directors, faculty and Saint Mary's Student Body President administration. Anne Marie Kollman, who will con-
This year's conference will con-duct an ice breaking session on sist of seminars on topics that stu-"Getting to Know People Within dent leaders are facing today. Your Organization;" Patricia Ris­
"Our conferen-ce is unique to all smeyer, director of residence life at other conferences, because we're Saint Mary's, will speak on touching on subjects that student minorities; and Sister Karol Jack­leaders need to be aware of, like owsld, Saint Mary's dean of student sexuality, sexual harassment, al-affairs, who will address the topicQf cobol problems and minorities," sexual harassment, Lavezzorio said. Lavezzorio said. The delegate's expenses for the 
As Chairperson, Lavezzorio coor-conference are taken care ofby their dinated the sessions and along with school's student government, ex­her committee arranged for · cept for their lodging, which the speakers such as jerry Rubin, one of delegates pay themselves. Each the "Chicago 12" and Herb True, a school allots S60 per delegate, for Saint Mary's business and economics conference expenses. As host professor. Both speakers will school, Saint Mary's will make no address the topic of student leader-profit from this conference, Lavez­ship. zorio said. 
Each participating school is The seminars will be held In the allowed to send one student and one Haggar College Center, Madale.va professional delegate to the con-Hall, and Cushwa-Leighton Ubrary. 
Lavezzorio and her committee consisting of Saint Mary's seniors Francie White, Joanie McKenna and Mary Gorenz have planned many ac­tivities for the 150 delegates in addi­tion to the sessions. 
Conference members will be entertained this weekend starting with a Hawaiian dinner and luau Friday night at the Haggar College Center. 
Saturday night SAGA will be hos­ting a dinner in the Saint Mary's dining hall, followed by Casino night at Angela Athletic Facility. Each school was asked to bring a gift such as a t-shirt or mug with the school's emblem, which will serve as prizes at Casino Night. 
Observer 
continued from page 1 
would use the account to allocate funds to groups requesting financial support. 
Joe Merchant, council member, said the money should not be used for a "slush fund." 
"That's a vague way to deal with 110,000," he said. "It's a Jot of money with no specific purpose just sitting there." 

Ingwersen later announced she would vote against the proposal if it came to a vote. She said the funds should either go to the class govern­ments or allocated according to the present fiscal policy. 1 
i
21 Club 
continued from page 1 
way," added Soule. She also said It would not be fair to underage resi­dents, to open up their hall's party room to the rest ofcampus while ex­cluding them. 
Crandall said he has been receiv­Ing positive feedback from seniors as well as underclassmen. "We can set an example for the responsible use of alcohol as well as giving them something to look forward to." 
Crandall and Soule both said they are looking for a new name to describe the 21 club since it is not actually a club. No one can become a member or pay dues. All you have to be is an on campus student who Is 21 years old. 


--------------~--­
--------~---------------------------------------­
The Observer Monday, September 30, 1985 -page 4 
Grad student program to confer 100 degrees 

Spedal to The Obeaver 
One hundred minority students sponsored by the National Consor· tium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering Inc. will receive graduate degrees this spring, tplfilling a goal set for the consor­tium's lOth anniversary. 
The consortium, known as GEM and headquartered on the Notre Dame campus, was organized in 1976 as a means of encouraging more minorities to pursue graduate studies in engineering. In its early days, GEM was comprised of 15 uni­versities and nine employers. At the end of its first academic year, GEM had sponsored one graduate stu· dent. 
Today, 48 member universities have 250 GEM fellows enrolled in their graduate engineering programs. Fifty-four companies employ the students as summer in· terns. Since 1976, 310 minority stu· dents, or 12 percent ofall minorities who hold graduate engineering degrees, have been sponsored by GEM. Some 85 percent ofthose who have entered the program have completed their graduate degrees, 
Ferraro terms candidacy 'almost unbearable' 
NEW YORK -Geraldine Ferraro 
says her campaign last year for vice 
president was "almost unbearable," 
as she was subjected tq scrutiny, 
bigotry an~ sexism. 
"I wasn't prepared for the depth of the fury, the bigotry and the sexism my candidacy would unleash,N wrote Ferraro, the first woman to be a major party's national candidate. 
Yet the hardships wereoffset by the opportunities her candidacy opened for women like her two daughters, "expanding their life op· tions a thousandfold," the former New York congresswoman wrote in "Ferraro: My Story," to be published by Bantam Books in November. 
She called anti-abortion pickets who dogged her steps "vicious" and said the Italian-American com­munity abandoned her. 
She said her husband, john Zac· caro, was "devastated" and depressed by scrutiny and criticism ofhis financial dealings, and said she began to bite her nails and eat "almost compulsively" because of the pressures ofthe campaign. 
Ferraro said she incited a furor over her husband's tax returns by in· advertently approving a news release saying he would release them when he had told her he would not. The documents eventually were released. 
'"Please take my name out ofcon· sideration,' I told Mondale. 'I do not want to be part of this process anymore. I never really did want it,,. Ferraro wrote. "But he refused." 
Mondale promised her the criticism would stop, she said. 
On the night ofher nominatlon in San Francisco, she and Mondale and their spouses celebrated with cham· pagne. 
"There wasn't a cloud on my horizon," she wrote. "What I didn't know then was the personal agony that lay ahead, an agony that at times would seem almost unbearable." 
Ferraro said she was not dis· traught over losing the election. 
"Short of a major disaster that he couldn't grin away or shrug otfhelp· lessly, (President) Reagan was vir­tually unbeatable," she said. 

Come Reach For Stars. 
and applications have been received from all minority groups. 
In spite of the progress GEM has made, its student programs coor­dinator is calling for more applicants to fill the 150 fellowships to be of· fered in 1986. "Many minorities are looking for high-level positions in research and development, and they need graduate degrees to compete for those positions," said Dr. Martha Conley. "Many barriers still exist and it is important that more minority students become aware of the graduate school application process." 
Last year, Conley said 145 fellow­ships were filled from a pool of 400 applicants. Students who are ac· cepted will begin a graduate en· gineering program at one of the member universities and work as summer interns with the member companies. Fellows pay no tuition and receive an annual S5,000 stipend. Member companies pay summer salaries and provide transportation to and from work. She estimated the total value of a GEM fellowship at $20,000 to 
$30,000. 
~t's party time 
This room (225 Holy Cross) won the category of 
best party room at Saint Mary's last week. Tbe 
creators oftberoom areReginaRoby,]ennyFeeney, 


The Leo Burnett Advertising Agency invites you to a presentation on Careers in Client Services. 
Please join us in the upper lounge of the University Club on Tuesday. net 1, at 7 p.m. Additionally, first-year MBA students are"~nvited to a presentation on Wednesday night, same place, same time. Reception following. 
LEO BURNETT COMPANY, INC. 
--· -----·--­
The Observer Monday, September 30, 1985 -page 5 

16 skydivers and pilot die in crash 
JENKINSBURG, Ga. · An airplane filkd with parachutists crashed on takeoff from a private rural airstrip yesterday, killing all 17 aboard, offi· cials said. 
The single-engine Cessna 208 Caravan crashed in a pasture around 
12:30 p.m., said Federal Aviation Ad­ministration spokesman Roger Myers. 
"The airplane was apparently climbing out after taking off and a witness stated that the engine stalled," said Preston Hicks, a Na­tional Transportation Safety Board Investigator who was on the scene. 

Grady Wyatt, who lives near the crash site approximately two miles from the West Wind Sport Parachute Center, was out in his yard when the plane flew over just above the treetops. 
"The plane came up and looked like it could hardly stay up. A few minutes after that, I heard a crash, what sounded like a crash," said Wyatt. 
The plane came to rest on its back, its cockpit destroyed but the wheels intact, said Butts County Fire Chief 
W.L. Vaughn. 
Jenkinsburg is about 60 miles south ofAtlanta. 
"The first report to us was that there were 1 7 persons on board and all were injured fatally," said Myers. Patrol spokesman Bill Wilson also said that all those aboard the 16· passenger airplane were killed. 
Rescue workers spent two hours pulling bodies from the wreckage, which were taken to a National Guard Armory in nearby Jackson, said Hicks. 
The Caravan is an unusually large single-engine aircraft introduced by Cessna in 1982 and marketed as a cargo or passenger aircraft, Myers said. 
FREEl 

Alka-Seltzer Plus@ Cold Medicine Del Monte® Yogurt Raisins Anesse Shampoo Finesse Conditioner Finesse Luminescent Mousse Anesse Halrspray Usterlne('" Antiseptic Lubrlderm® Lotion 
o.b.® Tampons Oh Henry!® Schick® Disposable Razors 
• Trident® Soft Bubble Gum 
paks do not contain all products shown 
QUANTITIES LIMITED, 1PER STUDENT 
FlU OUT THIS COUPON AND BRING IT TO YOUR COUEGE STORE TO RECEIVE YOUR FREE CAMPUS TRIAL PAK 

FALL 1985 ONE PER STUDENT ONLY 
Name ----------------------------------------­College Student 1.0.---------------­Phone 
The Notre Dame Bookstore 

' l 
I I 

These three were caught apparently enjoying yesterday's sunny andpleasant weatheron the Stepan Mall. From leftan1seniorChad Henke, Henke's roommate's dog, Chester and Sonja Ribm sharing a quietSunday moment together . 
Black burned to death in second day of riots 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa· A mob burned a black man to death yesterday in the second straight day of clashes between rival black groups near Durban, and anti· apartheid violence spilled into white areas for the third day in a row, police said. 
Police also reported they shot and killed a black man heaving a gasoline bomb in Dordecht in eastern Cape Province. 
An explosion that police believed was caused by a bomb went off in the men's room of a hotel ncar Dur­ban where about 150 black youngsters were guests at a "children's day," but no one was injured. 
Peter Davidson, owner of the Ex· ecutive Hotel in Umlazi, a black township west of Durban, told The Associated Press: "We don't know who would have done lt. I am not involved in politics." 
However, local Zulus and sources within lnkatha, the million-strong Zulu political movement, said Davidson is one of the more than 100 members of the lnkatha central committee, which advises hereditary Zulu Chief Gatsha But· helezi. The sources spoke on condl· don ofanonymity. 
The youngsters, ranging in age from 9 to 15, were gathered for a party the hotel sponsors on Sunday afternoons for parents and their children. Police said there was little damage. 
Two Sunday newspapers called for the government to lift the state of emergency imposed July 21 in 36 areas, saying the emergency has given police the opportunity to torture detainees. 

Security crackdown appears to meet goal 
WASHINGTON · The armed 
services and defense contractors ap· 
pear to be meeting Defense 
Secretary Caspar Weinberger's 
three-month goal of reducing 
security clearances by 10 percent. 
Final figures on the crackdown, which grew out of a Navy spy scan· dal, are not expected until next month. But Weinberger's deadline for an across-the-board, 10 percent reduction in clearances expires today and some preliminary figures have been compiled. 
When the cuts were orderedJune 11, there were 4.3 million Pentagon employees, congressional aides and contractor employees with clearances ranging from Confiden· tial to Secret to Top Secret. 
The idea ofslashing the number of individuals with clearances is aimed at both reducing the potential sources ofinformation to the Soviets and freeing investigators to pedorm more thorough and timely back· ground checlcs. 
L. Britt Snider, Pentagon's prin· cipal director for counter-intelligence and security policy, told a House panel last week that "it does appear that DoD will meet or exceed the secretary's 1 0 percent objective by the first ofOc· tober." 
"As of Sept. 15, we estimate that an overall reduction of ap­proximately eight percent had been achieved . . .," Snider disclosed. "Each of the military departments has advised that it expects to satisfy the requirement in a timely man­ner." 
Defense contractors "had 
eliminated 149,599 existing 
clearances, or 1 0. 7 percent of the 
,
whole" by Sept. 14, Snider con­
tinued. "In short, the overall ob­
jective has been met." 
But Snider also said the Pentagon approved some exceptions to Weinberger's order. While he declined to offer figures, he said the goal won't be met by the National Security Agency and the Defense In­telligence Agency because their employees "have an undisputed need for a clearance." 
As for chances of new cuts, Snider said, "I do not anticipate funhcr across-the-board reductions at this time." 
Snider also noted, however, that Navy Secretary John Lehman has set a goal of reducing Navy clearances by 50 percent as soon as pos!liblc. 

The Observer Monday, September 30, 1985-page 6 

Spielberg inaugurates extraterrestial search 
HARVARD, Mass. -With the touch of a lever, "E.T." director Steven Spielberg yesterday inaugurated a search for real-life extraterrestrials, switching on a giant antenna that astronomers hope will detect radio signals sent from outer space. 
"This marks the beginning of a really powerful search that has a decent chance of finding someth­ing," said Paul Horowitz, a Harvard University professor who designed the 84-foot communications dish, part of the most powerful radio­scanning system ever used to hunt for aliens. 
The dish, capable of scanning 8.4 million radio channels, marks an es­calation of such efforts by The Planetary Society, which scans the skies for signs of life from its Oak Ridge Observatory in Harvard, a small town northwest ofBoston. 
Since 1983, the space-watching group had been searching with a simpler scanner, which picked up only 180,000 radio channels. 
The new antenna, known as Project Meta, was built with the help of a UOO,OOO grant from Spielberg, the science fiction filmmaker whose credits include "Close Encounters ofthe Third Kind" and "E.T.," which featured a lovable alien. 
Spielberg whisked into Harvard just long enough to flip on the an­tenna with the help ofhis infant son, Max. The communications dish hummed as it rotated skyward. 
"It's the most sophisticated search for extratrrestrial Intelligence in human history," said Carl Silgan, the popular science writer and presi­dent of the Planetary Society, who joined Spielberg, Horowitz and ot­her astronomers at the observatory to dedicate the antenna. Afterwards, they toasted the event with cham­pagne. 
Horowitz said the antenna was capable of reaching to the edges of the known galaxy. If there is life on other planets, he said, "this kind of communications system can do the job." He said he will visit the obser­vatory once every two weeks to check on the project. 
The scanner, which took two years to construct, is more versatile than its predecessor and includes changes that should increase the chances of raising alien messages. The antenna is hooked up to a com­puter room, which records all radio signals emitted from space. 
The previous system had turned up only the radio waves that all planets naturally produce, but im­provements in the scanner keep him 
hoping  for  concrete  results,  
Horowitz said .  
He  said  astronomers  will  be  

looking for a narrow radio signal to indicate other life forms. 
"We're looking for planetary sys­tems around stars," he said. "There are more than 1 million stars, so the cheapest way to look at a million stars is to look at everything at once." 
Because ofhis involvement in the project, Spielberg said he'd be happy ifthe antenna was the first to pick up signs oflife beyond Earth. 

$1.9 million received by three ND colleges 
Jennings. assistant professor of civil 
Notre Dame received n,199,052 in grants during August for the sup­port of research, equipment, in­structional programs, service programs and other projects. Research funding totaled $950,856, including: 
•U65,033 
from the U.S. Depart­ment of Energy for anaerobic se­quencing batch reactor treatment of coal conversion wastewaters by lloyd Ketchum, associate professor ofcivil engineering. 

• 
n 54,869 from the National Science Foundation for research in elementary particle physics by John Poirier, professor ofphysics. 

•U21,082 
from the National In­stitutes of Health for nuclear mag-


engineering. 
•$37,000 
from the National Science Foundation for transcen­dental algebraic geometry research by Andrew Sommese, professor of mathematics. 

•U8,500 
from the Honeywell Corp. for auger recombination research by John Dow, Freimann professor ofPhysics. 

• 
$9,075 from the WhlrlJXX?l Corp. for a fellowship in the College ofEn­gineering. 

• 
$8,669 from Michigan State Uni­versity for a comparative analysis of values in agricultural research agendas by Christopher Hamlin, as­sistant professor ofhistory. 


•U,500fromGraduateWomenin 

netic resonance studies of metals in Science-Sigma Delta Epsilon for kinases and related enzymes by research on the theory of correla­Thomas Nowak, profesSor of tions in (Ill )IV alloys by Kathie chemistry. Newman, assistant professor of 
•$101,313 
from the U.S. Navy for physics. EXAFS and XANES studies in in semi-Other projects received conductors by Bruce Bunker, assis-U21,519, including: tantprofessorofphysics. •U01,325 from the U.S. Navy in 

• 
$85,000 from the u.s. Air Force support of teaching and research by for research on the vibrational K.T. Yang, Hank professor of en­properties of 111-V semiconductors gineering, as a visiting Research byJohn Dow, Freimann professor of Chair professor at the U.S. Naval 


physics. Postgraduate School in Monterey, 
• $70,912 from the National Calif. Science Foundation for relativistic •U9,194 from the National random-phase approximation Science Foundation for participa­
research by Walter Johnson, profes-tion by Anthony Trozzolo, Huisking sor ofphysics. professor of chemistry, in the U.S.­
• S62,260 from the American China binational conference on Heart Association for research on photochemistry. the interaction ofplasmin with mac-•$1,000 from Geerman Marshall roglobulin and antiplasmin by Fund of the United States for par­Francis Castellino, Kleiderer/Pezold ticipation by Erhard Winkler, profes­professor of biochemistry and dean sor of Earth sciences, in an 
ofthe College ofScience. 
• 
S62,000 from Argonne National Laboratory for light water reactor aerosol research by Patrick Dunn, associate professor ofaerospace and mechanical engineering. 

•140,343 
from the Environmental Protection Agency for automated environmental reviews by Aaron 


international congress of deteriora­tion and conservation ofstone. Funds for instructional programs totaled $86,147, including: 
•$72,724 from the National In­stitutes of Health for research train­ing in mental retardation by John Borkowski, professor psychology, and Thomas Whitman, professor of
psychology. 


APPboco

OhGllligan 
hurricane Gloria. A witness said the boat snapped Curious scavangers pick through the wreckage of the thin rope line with which it was moored off this 40-foot cabin cruiser which washed ashore on shOre and then smashed on the exposed rocks Wtllard Beach in South Portland, Maine, durin 
low ttde Friday night. 

Get to the answers faster. With the ll55,11. 
What you need to tackle the higher mathematics of a science or engineering cur­riculum are more functions ­more functions than a simple slide-rule calculator has. 
Enter the TI-55-II, with l12 powerful functions. You can work faster and more accurately with the TI-55-II, because it's preprogrammed to perform complex calcula­tions -like definite integrals, linear regression and hyper· bolics -'ii'f. tbe touch of a button. And it can also be programmed to do repetitive problems without re-entering the entire formula. 

Included is the Calculator Decision-Making Sourcebook. 
It makes the process of using the Tl-55-II even simpler, and shows y5u how to use all the power of the calculator. 
Get to the answers faster. Let a TI-55-ll ..fi.1 show you how. ~ 
TEAS 
INSTRUMENTS 
Creating useful products and services for you. 


.. 
Accent 
Monday, September 30, 1985-page 7 
The sleep primer for those who don't sleep 
KrisMurphy 
features staff writer 
F 
unny .. thing about sleep at 
Notre Dame. Nobody gets any. If 
you're not studying you're drinking. 
Ifyou're not drinking you're eating. 
And ifyou are eating you're 
probably wishing you were drink­
Ing. 
So here you are. You've been up 
for 34 hours straight and things are 
starting to get a mite blurry. Your 
favorite phrases are 
"Mmmmmmph" and "Ofcourse: I 
wasn't snoring!" You used to get 
lots of sleep but that seems like 
years ago. But you can relax now. The Notre Dame sleep primer is here. When to sleep 
The best place to sleep on <:ampus is in class. Eight o'clock classes and lectures are traditional favorites but a few hardcores are now sleeping through chem lab and the phys ed swimming lessons. Clas.o;cs are good places to sleep because you have probably already finished your homework and be­cause the seats in the library auditorium are more comfortable than your bed. 
If you're In a psychology class the teacher will probably want you to sleep because then you'll dream. When you wake up the class can analyze your dream and discover your foot fetish. 
Pa.'iSing out and sleepjng are often confused at Notre Dame. People who pass out do not wake up when you kick them in the head. This is also a good time to shave off beards, moustaches, eyebrows, ears, and 

even whole heads ot hair. 
How to sleep 

If you are going to sleep in class, do it right. Subtle people put their heads on their desk and are hardly noticeable. Obnoxious people tend to cock their heads back at 90­degree angles and leave their mouths wide open. They snore and make rude noises with their nose. 
Eight o'clock classes and lectures are traditional favorites but a few hardcores are now sleeping through chem lab and the phys -ed swimming lessons. 

People who are somewhere between obnoxious and subtle tilt their heads forward on their chests and try real hard to keep their eyes open. These folks are bad news because: they drool when they sleep and they leave class with wet spots on their clothing. 
Things to dream about· men's 
Ust 
I. Women at Saint Mary's 

2. 
Women at USC 

3. 
Women in general 



Women'sUst 

I. Domers 
2. 
Newspaper columnists 

3. 
More Domers 


Gerry Faust List 1.9-2 2.9-2 3.9-2 
Stuffto consume before bed 

1. 
Pizza and beer 

2. 
Your French book 

3. 
Anything Mexican that will you give you heartburn and keep you awake until 3:30 so you can worry about how much ofyour savings the Notre Dame Credit Union has stolen lately. 


Things to wake up to 

1. Notre Dame fight song 


WANTS YOU 
The features department is accepting applications for: 
Features copy editor 
Applications are due 5 p.m. Oct. 4 For more Information contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-5313 
5. Your roomie who talks to Santa Claus in his sleep. 
Stuffto wear to bed 
I. All your clothes 
2. 
Spray paint 

3. 
Boxers 



Special Section: the all-rupter 
An all-nighter occurs when you have not done any ofyour homework and you must have It all done by tomorrow. AJJ-nighters last from 9 p.m. to 8 a.m. and they are grueling affidrs. Sleep is not an option and you couldn't sleep ifyou wanted to because: you're too cranked up on Cherry Coke and all-nightcr: "Giuuuuuuupt fsbvjk nw qsas88 mnfdwa sppUzj!" 
Someday you will sleep normally again. No longer will roommates tum on the lights at four o'clock. No longer will you drool on your­sc::lfin calc 125. Never again will you sleep on floors and In cars. Dreams ofEmil will cc::asc:: and you will never again be forced to watch the sun rise: through a haze of Cherry Coke and Folger's Crystals. That day is coming but not very quickly. "Sleep, who nc::c::ds itr' shall be your motto and yawns shall follow you all the days ofthe semester. 

'Handintan' brings curious looks to Farley 
Mark Mellett 
features writer 

W 
hen I first walk in, I get a few 
funny looks like what are you 
doing here." This is the reaction joe 
Rae Lukowski receives when she 
opens the door to her new hand­
iman job at Farley Hall. 
"But once I start whatever I'm doing they forget I'm even there," she says. 
Seeing a woman carrying a ham­mer or a wrench may put a curious look on some peoples faces, but tools toJoe Rae are what the pencil is to the writer or the calculator to the accountant, for she is a rarity at Notre Dame -a woman repairman. 
General repairs are her speciality. Screen windows, bolsters, door knobs, tile -you complain about It, Lukowski will doctor it. 
What interests Lukowski in such an occupation? "What's a good way to put this? You work with your hands," she said. You're all over the place and it's a challenge." 
Lukowski is a native ofGranger, Ind. Previously she worked as a janitor in Farely Hall for five years. With this experience Lukowski applied for the handlman job. The management "talked a lot about It," she said, adding, "lt was not handed to me on a sliver plater." 
Anne Finch, an resident assistant in Farely who has known Lukowski for three years, has nothing but compliments for her. "She's com­petent and capable." Finch said she 
~ 

was happy to hear Lukowski finally , received the job after two un­successful tries. "It's not that she is ,1 a women. It's that she is able to do 
, 
the job," said Finch. 
Along with the tools came some 
male skepticism. Lukowski has 
received some extra attention from 
odle men employees but conceded 
that most have been helpful. 
"They're adjusting as I am," she 
said. "They are there to help me 
when I need it and see that safety is 
taken. If I'm working over there on 
the saw, they make sure I don't cut 
my fingers off." 
When Lukowski is not tightening this or fastening that, she is on her way to the next repair. "It's very busy and I like to be busy," remarked the woman who handles 19 campus buildings from her shop In Farley. "Time goes zip." 
With her bubbling personality, Lukowski makes even the basement repair shop liven up. She comes to work clad In the appropriate Notre Dame employees' shirt and blue jeans. She also carries a ring ofkeys, the distinction of moSt building handlmen. Underneath this uniform is a truly geniune person. She Is a person being hersc::lfand doing what she wants to do. "I'm a normal human being and I do things any normal girl does. I love my job." 

View~_o_i_n_t________
M_o_nd-ay_,s_ep-tem_b_er-30_,1_9s_s_pa-ge-8 
Inconsiderate fans can ruin game for the others 
Before I came to Notre Dame last fall, I had an image of what a Notre Dame student was like. I came to visit the campus during March, but my visit coincided with Spring Break, so I 'was unable to meet many students. The few I did meet, however, left an impression on me that I always will remember. 
WllliamJ. Curran guest column 
I had been on campus for all offive minutes, after a 13 1/2 hour trip from New York, when I met my first on-campus Notre Dame student. He hailed from England, accent and all. His show of concern was one of my reasons for coming here. He thought nothingoftaking the time to help us orient ourselves with the campus map or showing us his room. 
While I walked around noticing the beauty of the campus, my parents met another stu­dent who acted in a similar manner to the first. It was this special, friendly feeling, the beauty ofthe campus (in addition to academics, etc.) that let me know this was the place for me. That special feeling is unique to Notre Dame. I visited other campuses such as Cornell Uni-. versity (which is itself a fine Ivy League uni­
versity), but that special feeling was absent. 
Last fall, the feeling was magnified at my first "home" football game. I never had seen such spirit and love for one's school as I had at the Hoosier Dome for our game against Purdue. Chanting "We are ND" at 6 a.m. while waiting for the arrival of the bus was a sign of real spirit. My tickets for our first home game at Notre Dame Stadium were in row 58 ofthe freshman section. They were not the greatest seats in the house, but we had a great time learning all the new cheers, rooting for our team and yelling. 
I wrote home telling of the spirit in the stands. It was something that I never had ex­perienced before and I wanted to share my excitement. 
Similarly, I found that special feeling when I recently attended the Mass held at Sacred Hean Church last Tuesday for Kevin Hurley, the freshman who is presently in the hospital in serious condition. At this Mass, there were more than 1,200 people by my calculation. 
When one realizes that Kevin was only on campus for a few weeks and that he could not possibly have known even one'third of those in attendence, one has to feel that special force behind this University. It is bean­warming to know that the Notre Dame spirit and love still are going strong. 
Yet, sometimes it is hidden from plain view, Such was the case at our first home game last week against ·Michigan State. There were people there so intoxicated they had difficulty standing. They fell often, and took 1 0 people with them each time. How can one enjoy the game and the Notre Dame spirit when one is continually knocked down by other fans? 
After having looked forward to the football game for so long, I'm sure many were disap­pointed because of the inconsiderate be­havior of others. Ifyou're going to tailgate, as I'm sure you'll want to do, leave it in the parking lot. Show a little counesy for your fel­low students. 
I was surprised to find beer cans in the stands at this year's home opener. Last year, we enjoyed the game and never saw any of these things going on. After the loss to Mic­higan the week before, the Irish victory was a welcome relief. It's too bad that some fans weren't allowed to enjoy it like it should be enjoyed. 
William]. CuTTan ts a sophomore mathe­matics major. 

r ~ 
r 
Sacrament of Reconciliation often neglected 
Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement, and Lent, the time offasting and preparation in an­ticipation of Christ Jesus's resurrection are both holidays set aside in theJudeo-Christian culture to reflect upon our sins. But it is not only to reflect upon our sins that we observe these special days. It is also to make sacrifices to God in reparation for those sins. 
Stephen Safranek 

r 
r 
~ a view from the limb 
r 
I Attempts at washing away our sins are fruit­
r less, however, but for the intervention of 
r 
r Christ Jesus, so Christians believe. His grace flows freely to those who seek him. In light of 
this need for reconciliation with God, the Church, based upon Christ's explicit admoni­tion, has instituted the Sacrament of Recon­cilation. 
This sacrament, however, seems in little use. Unlike Mass attendance, about which Notre Dame repeatedly boasts because ofthe 
r 
large proportion of students who participate 
r 
r 
r 
Human injustice not solely an international issue 
Mary's is also sponsoring three speakers this semester. William Beadall is speaking Oct. 7 on Nicaragua, Verghese J. Chimayath will speak on Third World Peace and Economics on Nov. 3, and on Dec. 2 Ana Casspan will be speaking about El Salvador. As you can see,

r 
' 
many avenues and paths are open but you must take responsibility for that first step. Reach out and help someone eise, the rewards are many and by helping others you may also help yourself. 
"It isn't just the poor peoples' problem, ul­timately global problems affect the rich as well, and we must teach justice in the context of each person's reality as well as that of our neighbor," said Father Peter Henret, director of Center ofConcern. 
Stacy Bonanni is a senior at Saint Mary's College who is a Liberal Arts major. 
Quote of the day 
How many roads must a man walk down before you call him a man? 
Bob Dylan 

We as college students have the obligation and ability to act on injustice and human right issues. Justice defined is a very subjective term open to many interpretations. It is also an intrinsic pan ofour value system. We have a responsibility to act upon our values. We know what is right and wrong, and to see ot­hers being treated unjustly and to ignore this issue shows a lack of concern and a large degree ofself-centeredness. 
Stacy Bonanni justice and human rights 
The church through the recent Bishops Synod mandated, in their call to action, that, "Those who enjoy the benefits of a Catholic higher education have the obligation to provide our society with leadership in matters 
Doonesbury 

weekly and daily at Masses, little attention is 
given to the Sacrament ofReconciliation. Cer­
tainly, the church and chapels packed with 
fervent students attests to the true Catholic 
spirit ofthis University and its members. 
Nevertheless, for some strange reason the Sacrament ofReconciliation seems neglected. Various reasons can be given for such neglect. Many persons now see the sacrament as su­perfluous because they talk to God and he forgives them. Besides, in Mass, everybody prays a collective confession. These acts seem to fulfill the role ofconfession. 
Such reasons, although enticing because of the double bonus they convey, (Mass and confession and prayer and confession for the price of one), ring untrue. If those means of confession were appropriate and sufficient, the Church would never have instituted the Sacrament of Reconciliation. Moreover, if confession without a priest conveys the full­ness of the sacrament, shouldn't Mass also be possible without a priest? 
The arguments ring hollow--to all but the most accommodating ear. Yet, the sacrament remains unused. One reason for this neldect may be because sin has been done away with in modern times. 
This has been accomplished in a variety of ways. Just as this age has been able to do away with so many other evils such as the diseases and epidemics of the past, so we have done away with sin. Withoutsin, we need not worry about guilt; psychologists tell us that such feelings are unhealthy anyway. Also, most of us do not sin anymore; we are victims ofcon­sequences and our backgrounds. i.e. we were drunk, or we did it because our parents did not raise us in the right environment. 
But even those who do occassionally sin, fail to go to confession. It just does not feel good. Who wants to talk to someone else about their most intimate weaknesses? This is especially true when that person may see one everyday and consorts with one's fellow stu­dents. It is difficult to confess one's sins in a serious way to someone who is just like everybody else. 
Although a variety of reasons exist for the demise ofconfession, none suffices to explain why so many persons do not panake of the sacrament regularly. This was brought home poignantly one day while I was in Rome.l was waiting in St. Peter's Church to go to confes­sion. A nun had gone into the confessional before me and had spent nearly thirty minutes there. I turned to a friend of mine and men­tioned something about how many sins that nun must have had. My friend responded by saying that it was probably just the opposite. This nun was so concerned for her soul and so anxious to be forgiven that she had probably elaborated on every bad thought and action she had since her confession the week before. 
Properly corrected, I figured if I used that nun's scale I would be in the confessional for weeks. After going to confession that time, and every time since, I have thought about that nun, and her struggle for perfection. It is a struggle we all should embrace. It is a struggle in which all need the graces that come only through the sacrament of reconciliation. Per­haps it is best characterized by the final words ofthe priest in the confessional -go, and sin no more. 
Take it easy Ray Vallera. 
Steve Safranek is a regular Viewpoint columnist and a second-year law student at Notre Dame. 
ofjustice and human rights." 

Injustice is not only in the third world, it is right here on your doorstep. Open your eyes and see. Every person has been treated un­justly. It can be as simple as receiving a grade you didn't deserve or beingturned down from a job you could have succeeded in doing. Na­tional and international injustices are simply a large group ofpeople being treated unfairly. 
We are all human beings and should feel a responsibility towards our fellow man. we·are bound by the thin thread which holds us all together as humans with rights. 
A Brazilian theologian once stated "The road is travelled by walking." Each person is imponant in the march towards justice. By working together we must believe we can make a difference. 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame offer a veriety of classes and organizations which deal with justice education and human rights. Saint Mary's is also offering a justice education minor for those who are interested. 
The urban plunge is a program through which students can experience the life of the poor and the way they are treated. After the plunge students are urged to take a follow up class named "People and Justice." The course expands upon the discoveries made during the Urban Plunge. The class emphasizes reflection, study and solutions towards action. It answers the questions of the students con­cerning what individuals can do next. Or­ganizations such as Amnesty International, Peacemakers, Appalachian Plunge, Hunger Coalition, and Rasta expand upon the various aspects of justice and deal with them accord­ingly. Events and films are scheduled throug­hout the year to promote sensitivity, knowledge and awareness about justice issues. 
The Justice.Education Depanment at Saint 
Garry Trudeau 
I 5/JRE f)J(), TINI<£R BEU.! HAV£3 YOU 

5017
SEEN 7HE NATIONAL 

HAS,
OE:8T LA7Cl..Y? IT'S 

5/R...
fXXJIJIB1 SINCE. I 
\
TOOK. OFFIC£1 
/ 

YOU HAVC 7D J<eEP 'W 
UNH! 7HER&!

8£:1../EJ//Iolj, 5/R.! FOR.. V• .. 
CANIOP&N

THE MA6/C 7V 14KJRK, lff!fY.L''f.. 
MY &Y£5 NOIU?

YOIJ HAl/£ 70 ao5t VN1 I " 
IINI<ER?71NI<ER

Y(}(}R. 8YES ANV@5H YOU SAY
50 BCU?

11./llHAf1, Y()(}R. MIGHT.' ; " 
' 

"ie~P-=O=i=n=t~==================----------------------M_o_nd_a~y~,s_e~p~te=m=b~e~r~30~,~~~98~S~~p:a~ge::9 -,. 
P.O. Box Q 
Excuses do not solve 
the problems at ND 
DearEditor: 
Dan McCullough recently wrote an article 
equating the residence hall system here at 
Notre Dame to a traditional fraternity system. 
It was definitely the biggest joke that I have 
read in quite a long time. 
Neglecting the alcohol policy, parietals, menacing re<:tors, quiet hours and several ot· her juvenile disciplines, we do have someth· ing in common with fraternities and sororities: we live in building.~. 
The key function of the greek system is Its social benefits. Obviously, since social life here is equivalent to watching the paint dry, there is no possible way that a realistic anal­ogy can be drawn between residence halls ami fraternities. · 
Thus, the key point I am trying to mal<e 
about this article and most of the articles and 
letters that appear in The Observer is this: 
every seemingly logical and "mature" answer 
to t~e great number ofinjustices that occur at 
Notre Dame can all be tied up in a single 
bunch and labled "excuses and com­
promises." 
For example, someone writes in that the 
teaching here is deficient. Someone else 
answers and says, "If it is so bad here why 
don't you go somewhere else?" 
Why are all these complaints answered with compromises and excuses? I guess some people spend their lives continually avoiding the facts. Uke all those oppressed in South Africa. Now why do you suppose that they are complaining. I mean if they don't like it, why don't they just leave?l am not trying to mal<e fun of the situation in South Africa, I am just trying to draw a strong analogy. They probably have more freedom than we do anyway. 
So why don't you get real McCullough,and write something that is non-fiction. You probably believe in the tooth fairy, too. 
Chris Lusi Notre Dame student 

Removal of stereotypes will allow for equality 
Dear Editor: 
In his rebuttal on Sept. 20, Don Johnson brought up several very misguided points about the recent Saint Mary's student ticket price increase (from o;o percent to 67 percent ofa general admission ticket). 
He first stated,"Saint Mary's is not Notre Dame." Ingenious observation. Saint Mary's, however, Is an integral part ofwhat I've come to know as the "Notre Dame community." This includes social and academic aspects, as Johnson himself points out by saying,"some of us (Notre Dame students) take classes there, (and vice versa)." 
Have you ever, Don johnson, paid addi· tiona! tuition to take these classes as you would if you were to take these at any other school in the nation? This certainly should tell even the casual observer something about the community surrounding these two very respected schools. 
Johnson also stated, "Before deciding that the ticket office is a grossly chauvinistic bureau of Saint Mary's College-hating officials ...." It is not the ticket office which is chauvinistic. 
"I find no fault at all with Saint Mary's girls," Johnson also said. "I think everyone should date one at least once." I was under the Impression the ignorance behind stereotypes died in the deep south in the civil rights move­ment ofthe 1960s. 
I was obviously wrong. Ignorance evidently reigns on one of the best liberal arts college campuses in the country. 
In light of my last point, I must agree with 
his point, "Before equality can end, it must 
start." Remove stereotypes and chauvinistic 
attitudes, and equality will begin. 

josepb Crocker Notre Dame student 
Athletic Department appreciates cooperation 
DearEditor: 
A word of appreciation to the student body t".:>r not going on the field at the Michigan State game. Thank you, the entire evening worked well for everyone, and everyone in the f.th· letic Department appreciates your coopera­tion in this matter. 
Gene Corrigan Director ofAthletics 
News reports may open hearts to Mexicans 
Dear Editor: 

John Conroy did not take certain key points into consideration in his comments on the front page Observer article dealing with the earthquake in Mexico. Conroy, in the Sept. 25 edition, accused the media of "irresponsible journalism," stating they had blown out of proportion the situation in Mexico City. He cited that cars were moving, and that physical structures were intact ouside of the center city. 
Conroy's trip to Mexico City is understan· 
dable, because his child lives there. Regard· 
less ofConroy's good intentions, however, his 
comments arc insensitive to the hidden 
realities of the earthqual<c. 

The death count now is estimated as high as 
4,000. That is about half of the number of 
people at Notre Dame. The figure may con­
tinue to rise. The threat of disease spreading 
from rotting bodies Is forcing authorities to 
bury or cremate unclaimed bodies. Many 
children are now homeless and have no 
knowledge of their parents' fate. Many 
families with no resources have lost their 
homes with no place to go. 

Above all this, Mexico's economy is falter­ing and poverty is a way of life for millions of Mexicans. The quake only has worsened life for the poor of Mexico City. Millions before the qual<c had no sewage system or running water. With utili9cs and city services paralyzed, the quake has intensified poverty for Mexico City's poor. 
Moreover, the poor do not have the resources to rebuild their fOlonies. The Jack of proper nutrition raises the oppressive im­pact ofpoverty. 
IfU.S. journalists sensationalized the qual<c, 
Bravisimo! It has awal<ened the hearts ofmany 
U.S. citizens, Hispanic, Anglo, black and ot­herwise, to give something ofthemselves. W c all have seen the television reports and the newspapers which have touched everyone of us to some degree. 
People across the United States arc con· tributing their clothes, time, money and prayers. They have been moved to do so after seeing and reading the reports. Journalism is not the only catalyst that has brought on this response, but it has helped. 
Thank God the 1 0 members of the Notre Dame family in Mexico City are fine. But the Notre Dame family should not stop with those ten; there are millions of residents in Mexico City who are not fine. The 10 students in Mexico City arc giving their time to rescue and relief efforts. Although we arc not in Mexico City, there are many concrete relief efforts we can undertal<c at Notre Dame, just as the thousands across this nation arc doing. 
Guillermo Garcia Miguel G. Mendivil Notre Dame students 
Warnings on records put blinders on children 
DearEditor: 
It is sad to see that attitudes like Maura Man­
dyck's still exist. It seems that Puritanism still 
exists in the 20th century. 
The "genius" wives of the Washington con· 
grcssmcn claim that what they arc asking for 
isn't censorship, it is repression. Repression is 
just as bad as censorship. 
The solution lies in bringing up the children. You can't raise the youth ofAmerica with blinders on. They must be prepared for life in the real world. Yes, sex, drugs, violence and body functions exist in the real world. 
Parents must instill values in their children 
so they can distinguish between what is 
wrong or right and act accordingly. If a child 
automatically docs what a lyric says, the 
parents have failed in teaching their child. 
America is supposedly a free country. Give 
musicians their freedom of expression and 
don't let the parents push their responsibility 
on someone else. 
Paul Czarnecki Michael Verbaro AlumniHall Kendra Morrill Pasquerllla West 
Dating not related to 
football ticket prices 
DearEditor: 
I agree with the point Donjohnson made in his letter ofSept. 20. Because Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are separate schools, there is no reason for Saint Mary's women to get the same football ticket discount Notre Dame students receive. 
There is one question, however, that I would like to address to Johnson. What do dates have to do with footballtickets? 
judy Gibbons leMansHall 
Pettifer challenged to write positive letter 
DearEditor: 
This is an open letter to Ann Pettifcr, Notre 
Dame Alumna. 
Would you look back In your files to sec if you can find a letter or column in which you said anything good about anybody or anyth­ing? Perhaps my memory fails me, but I carmot remember a time in the past four years when this has occurred. 
What satisfaction do you gain from blasting Janet Smith, who works tirelessly through the 


Women's Care Center to turn women away  
from abortion? Why should she not center her  
labors on her faith and her solid belief in the  
teachings of the Church in this area? I carmot  
think of a better rationale for her to do the  
work she docs. Rather than demean her work  
at the Center by characterizing it as a sad con­ 
fusion based on sexism, why not praise her for  
saving the lives of those children who ot·  
herwise would have been extinguished?  
Perhaps the kind ofgood that the Women's  
Care Center has been able to bring about is  
not dependant upon public acknowledge­ 
ment, but those individuals who work for the  
Center and make it an important part of their  
lives should certainly be encouraged In their  
goals.  
Pcttlfcr, a couple ofstudents in the Program  
of Uberal Studies (another bastion of right·  - 
wingcry like the Law School) once told me  
that you are nothing lilce the harsh and com­ 
bative individual that the Notre Dame com­ 
munity has seen in print over the years. They  
claimed that you are really a very pleasant lady  
whose main concern is to challenge apathy,  
admittedly a noble vocation. I would  
welcome evidence that supports this conten­ 
tion.  
True, Notre Dame is a university steeped in  
tradition, a characteristic revered by many  
people throughout the country. Yet tradition  
is not always a good thing, as I am sure you will  
agree. Therefore, I will ask you to break what  
has become a mini-tradition of constant  
criticism (for at least one column) by devot­ 
ing your prodigious rhetorical energies to the  
praise of someone associated with Notre  
Dame and/or Catholicism. I think it would be  
a refreshing change.  
Surely you can find someone or something  
to compliment! Hint: certainly, Smith and the  
Women's Care Center would benefit from  
your support.  
How about it Pcttlfer? Will you accept my  
challenge?  
Edward]. Sheeran  
Notre Dawre Law School  
Optimistic article  
does not warrant pick  -­ 
DearEditor:  
How canJeff Blumb be allowed to write an  
article covering one third ofthe back page on  
September 20 concerning "Important thing is  
how Irish respond to loss" and have the nerve  
to pick Michigan State over Notre Dame.  
Very sad!  
EdMurpby  
Liberty, MD  

Editorial Board Operations Board 
.Ihe_~Obset:Ver--==~ 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager.. . .............. Dav1d Stephenitch
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller......... . ...... Wilham J. H1ghducheck News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager . . .. ... J1m Hagan
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Umversity of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager ............. Mark 8. Johnson 
Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the 
Saint Mary·s Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guanno Production Manager.. ........ John A. Mennell 
admJnJstratJon of e1ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 

Sible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 

tanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 

campus, through letters, IS encouraged. 
Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Lipo Founded November 3, 1966 
-c­
t
• 
-
Sports Briefs 
The ND goH team won a triangular match yesterday on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The Irish scored 368 to beat Dayton (397) and Marquette (407). Doug Giorgio shot 70 to lead Notre Dame, while teammates Tom Ryan (73)and George Melinsky 
(74) were close behind. Norman Campbell hit 78 and Tim Hanlon and Mike Covert came in at 83. -The Obseroer 
The SMC soccer teamdropped the sixth game ofits season this weekend to Purdue, 4-1. The Belles will play the Notr~ Dame Women's Soccer Clubtomorrow at 4:30 on Stepan Field. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Clubhad the fastest time ofthe day at the Head ofthe DesMoines Regatta Saturday. The Irish lightweight "A" eight-man shell won its three-mile race in 17:38, while the "B" boat finished second in 18:20. The women's team won the open event and the lightweight event with times of 22:10 and 20:37, respectively. The men's heavyweight shell placed second to Kansas State by a narrow margin. Eighteen Midwestern coleges and univer­sities competed in the regatta. -The Obseroer 
Novice BoxingTournamentparticipants must report for physicals tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the varsity training room In the ACC. -The Obseroer 
The ND/SMC Ski Club will be meeting tomorrow at 6: I 5 p.m. in the LaFortune Uttle Theatre. Anyone who is In­terested in a trip to Colorado or weekend trips may attend. -The Obseroer 
The Domer Runs are coming on Saturday. Anyone who is Interested may register during dinner tooJahtat the South Dining Hall or outside "F-line" at the North Dining Hall. · The Obseroer 
I 

Monday, September 30, 1985 -page 10 
The ND junior class will sponsor a softball festival on Friday beginning at 4 p.m. Teams willconsist of I 0 juniors, four of whom must be women. Prizes will be awarded to the winnng team, as well as to the team with the most creative uniform, and food will be provided for all participants. The 15 entry fee may be given to dorm reps or to junior class reps at the dining halls tomorrow and Wednesday from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. -The Observer 
SMC flag football signups will be held today at the Angela Athletic Facility. Games will begin next week. · The Observer 
NVA co-ree basketball rosters offive men and five women are due Wednesday, Oct. 9, at the NVA office in the ACC. Call 239-6100 for more information.-The Obseroer 
NVA racqetball tournament entries are due 
Wednesday, Oct. 9, at the NVA office in the ACC. The best-of-three singles tourney includes three divisions: men's, women's and grad­faculty. Call239-6100 for more information.-The Observer 
NVA volleyball tournament entries are due 
Wednesday, Oct. 9, at the NVA office in the ACC. Two tournaments­one for co-ree teams of three men and three women, and one for graduate student and faculty-are planned. Call 239-6100 for more information. -The Obseroer 
Handball and badminton tournaments have 
beenplanned by NVA. The deadline for entries is Wednesday, Oct. 9, at the NVA office in the ACC. Call t39-6100 for more information. ­
The Obseroer 

More NVAinformationis available by calling 239­6100 or by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC. -The Obseroer 
Hayes enters hospital 
COLUMBUS, Ohio · Former Ohio State University football coach Woody Hayes was admitted to Uni­versity Hospitals here yesterday morning after suffering what his physician said was a mild heart at­tack. 
"The fact is, he had an attack this morning," said Dr. Robert Murphy, an Ohio State University athletic physician. "But he's doing fine." 
Murphy said the attack was due to congestive heart failure, but he declined to give more information on Hayes' condition. 
Hospital spokesman Doug Brandt said Hayes, 72, was admitted about 7 
a.m. and was in satisfactory condi­tion Sunday night. He said Hayes is expected to remain hospitalized for "at least a week." 
Brandt declined to say whether Hayes was in intensive care. 
"We were told not to release anything about his room," Brandt said. "But I can assure you he's not hooked up to a respirator or anyth­ing." 
Hayes suffered a mild stroke in May while on a Canadian speaking trip and oniy recently had begun to resume public appearances. 
Brandt said Hayes was treated at the Columbus facility in 1974 for a heart attack. 
He said he does not believe Hayes' shortness of breath and coughing has anything to do with his stroke. 
Asked when Hayes will be released, Brandt said "all I know is we'll keep him here for at least a week. That's what we normally do when Woody comes ln." 
The Obserr•er Notrt: Dam" offiu:. locatc:d on the: third floor of l.al'ortunc: Stud.,nt C"nta. ac:c.,pls dassifkd advc:rtising from') a.m. until ~ p m.. \londay through friday. The Ohserr·er Saint Mary's offin·. I<Katc:d on thl· third tloor of Haggar Collc:gc: Cc:ntc:r, accc:pls dassifkds from 12:.~0 p.m until:'> p.m.. :'vlon­day though Friday. Dc:adlinc: for nc:xt-day dassitkds is -~ p.m. All dassifkds must be: prc:paid. c:ithc:r in pc:rson or hv mail. Chargt: is I 0 cc:nts p"r five: charac­
Classifieds 
tc:rs ·r da ·. 
NOTICES 
································································ 
TYPING AVAII.AIILE 287-4082 
···························································· 
TYPING CALL CHillS 214-a..r 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL . MRS. COKER, 233-70011 
WANTED-onvn needed to cMiivw The ObMrvw. T•• llboul 2 houri a day, QDDd pay. If interaated C8li Mark Pottw at 2:5-5303 or 2450. Drivn needed for al 
day8. 
I1HIIO WIEIEKLY/UP IIAILJNG CIA­CUI-AMI MO QUOTMI IINCBiaY I~ IIU8H laf­~INVILCW.: ~. 
PO MIX 470CM, wooo.TOCK, IL
.... 
I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: Man'allrown I'IIMrY· poelillly in or ,_CCE on Friday Sept 13. F"-C8li Bolla! 233-2784. 
I HAD MY STUDENT TIX IIEFORE THE MIU GAME, NOW I DON'T. I WOULD LOVE TO HAVE THEM.IIIIIIIUII..... I THINK I LOST THEM AT SENIOR 11oM. PlEASE CALL L.ARRY AT 1177. I WILL IDENTIFY THE SECTION AND SEAT NUMSEA. THANK'S. 
u.T:IIY I.D. AT THII Focn.AU. .,... MT. IT 1M:LU111D rrt 
DIT~ " • ..,uca•n
I'D)Ia.....V,AIID rrtJIMVIII c.-TO IT. ~I I"'.UUe ~TO KA'fML-. 111 a.P. 011 
CALL 11ft. 
LOST: PlATINUM OIAMONO ENGAGE· MENT lUNG IN OR MOUNO STADIUM OR N:£ PAN<JNQ LOTS. OEN£AOUS REWAI'ID OFFERED. CALL DAVE AT 
20-1141. 
LOST: PAIR OF AOIDAS CLEATS. LEFT IN "A" UNE LAST WE£K. PLEASE RETURN, NO QUEITION8 ASKED. CASH REWARD OFFERED. CALL 2002 OR DROP OFF AT 411 STANFORD. 
LOST: ~<ar-. onvn u-. Rober1 Coovw, 1025 Emwy Fld., laWI'llllCe , ~<ar-.. 8F.1175 ... Oeaper8te! 11 found C8li 288-5447. "-df 
-FOUND--Sharp electronic calculator. foundllboul a week ago In O'Shag. Cal Chrie at 1878to identify. 
LOST LOST!!! lro.t a gold Elgin -tch w/ 
brown leethw bend, prob-ably on WIIO­
neaday the 18th. II coulcl have left it in the 
dark room in the Ar1 Building. P..... 

~ return it to me; II hM great een­timental value and if I don't find it my mol· her wi1 KILL me. CALL JIM at 3414. Thanka. S 
HELP ME, PLEASE!! I loel my lootbal tick... aflw the Michigan game belwMn the atedium and St. Louie St. If any kind hMrted QDDd Chrietian-type-of-falow finde them (Me 31, etudenl) ~­~. ~C8li Barb! 2721 (321 PW) 
L.oel: blue '*"< pack in lOUth OH 8/24 -end at lunch contente: -.v. Con­v-ehoee, T.H. South T-ehin and ehonuocka and notebook if found ~cal Kathleen at 38&4 THANKS! 
LOST: aUE JAHSPORT BACKPACK AT SOUTH DINING HALL. TUESDAY, LUNCH. 24 SEPT. IF PICKED UP CALL 287 5823, OR DROP BY BASEMENT OF ARCH. BLOO. ASK FOR AI.F. 
STOlEN: 8AOWN ''INDIANA JONES" STYLE HAT, MY UTILE SISTER SPENT THREE WEEKS SAVING HER AL· LOWAHCE TO BUY IT FOR ME AND SHE WILL IE SHATTERED IF I COME HOME WITHOUT IT. PLEAS£ RBJEVE YOUR CONSCIENCE AND MAKE MY UTTL£ SISTER HAPPY AGAIN. CALL 1844 OR DROP IT OFF AT IIMIOILLON (NO QUESTIONS ASKED) THANK8 
LOST: N.D. 8A8E8ALL HAT IN MAIN CONCOURSE A.C.C I NEED IT SEFOAE THIS WEEKEND. LARGE REWARD. PLEASE RETURN TO 218 STANFORD OR CALL 2fJIU. 
LOST: PANASONlC CASSETTE FM/AM RADIO P\AYEA. LAST SEEN ON FIRST FlOOR. AUGUBTA HALL, SMC. PLEAS£ RETURN TO PATTY FALLON, RM. 2211, 284-5341. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 
LOST: AOOM KEY WITH KEY CHAIN WITH NO CATHEDRAL. CALL 2738 OR DROP OFF AT AOOM 342 PW. 
u.T CALCULATOR I LOST MY CAL· CULATOR. IT'S A HP·11C. PROIIABLY LOST IN CUSHING OR FITZ. IF FQUND.PLEASE CALL 808 X1743 
THANX. • LOST: l'AN WALLET AT THE LIBRARY. AROUND THE 2ND OR 13TH FLOORS ON t/25. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL JIM AT 272-8016. 

FOR RENT 
Roommate needed to eh.. 3br houH c:loee to NO. Cal287-4748 
GRAD ROOM $100/MO 2n-2045 
SEEKING FEMALE ROOMMATE AT NOTRE DAME APTS. CLOSE TO CAMPUS, INEXPENSIVE. CALL MIC­HELLE AT 283-4027 OR SHIRLEY AT 
234-6847. 
WANTED 

Need ride to Deyton any weekend. Cal Maria4174. 
WANTED-onvn needed to delivw the ObMrvw. r•• llbout 2 houri a day, QDDd pay. Drivn needed for al day8. II intereeted cal Mark Pottw at 2:5-5303 or 2450. 
NEED RIDERS TO BOSTON AREA FOR OCTOBER BREAK LEAVING AFTER ARMY GAME ON SATURDAY, OCT. 18. CALL PRISCILLA AT 284-5312 
FOR SALE 

FOR SALE: ADVENT LOUD SPEAKERS, WALNUT CABINETS. $200/PAIR CALL SUSAN 2ll4--4e04 
TICKETS 

Hflp I ...cl 2 Army GA'e. Have 1 USC Stuciiii'I/J/or -totnlele; C8li Ned 1043 
I NEED MANY USC TCKS. WIWNG TO PAY 00001-CALL STEVE AT 43311. 
I IIUD 4 TIX FOil ND-UIC GAllE. W/TAK12IITIOF 2.CALL...,-.1. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR ARMY. CALL 284· 
5523 . 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE ARMY GAME. CALLSUE284·54n. 
I MilO QAa FOil AJIIIY A UIC.272· AOI 
FREE SEX FOR 2 ARMY GA'S CALL CLAYTON AT 1373 ALSO PY CASH 
WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR 2 USC GAe!x2280 
WILL TRADE TWO TICKETS FOR ARMY GAME FOR TWO TICKETS TO LSU GAME. CALL JANE 2141. 
Wil trade two ticketa to Army game for two tick... to Miuiuippi game. Cal Jane, 2141. 
GOT ARMY TIX? P/U PHONE & CALL TONY 18113. 
I'IEIII-IJII Ill? I PAID G000 MONEY FOR M.S.U. TKS. NOW I NEED 2 USC GA'S. GIVE STEVE A CALL AT 3318 SEFORE BREAK. WERE TALKING BUSINESS! 
......_..,._.._.4tlc:Uiai..-MAVY ·p._cal Peteat1840 
HELP ME! HELP ME! I NEED 2 OR 3 GA'S FOR ARMY GAME. MY 2 BEAUTI­FUL SISTERS WOULD SE VERY HAPPY IF THEY COULD COME TO THE GAME!! CALL TONY 1808 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY GA'S AND 2 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT 1733/1757 
Need3LSU tix; Cal Tom at 1228 
PERSONALS 
"''l);';;;;d';h;'l;;;;·;;;;;;·;;;;~·;;;;y·i~ 
-onedblood, butofrwpeci-JO'IIn 
eec11 other•,._ 
A.wydo_,.,.done r.mHy,_ up undel theeame root. 
OAR HOUSE: COlO SEER & UQUOR. CAARY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BI.OCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Help ue avoid the Beantown blu•. Give ua a ride to lloaton or vicinity for October breek. Cal Maria4174. 

WANTED-Orivn to delivw The Obeer· vw. Takee llbout 2 houri • day, QDDd money. Drivn needed for al dll~. If in­l-Ied C8li Marl< Pottw at 23e-5305 or 2450. 
Thank You St. Jude 

THE RUSSIANS ARE COMING! OC­TOSER 11 
ALL THE SMIRNOFF ONE CAN HANDLE!! OCTOSER 11 
IINIOMI TICKETS FOR FOOTBAlL PARTY during Senior Informal W-end wil be on ule October 1&2,Tu-y&Wedn-y IH!pm LaFortune Info Oeak 
ROOMMATE FOR SALE; quiet, domee­tic, wong farming background, blue ey•. 5'3", brown curly hair (W~Uying andlllightly bald on the left aide), but heallhyfll Cal 0001 for detaile. 
What ..you trying to My? 
Jamie, QDDd luck In Jaraey. You -e a gr•t roornioH'I mi.. yal I hope Wyckoff ie eMiw to pronounce than Campue View! Love, Oi 
T~w~D~~vl,. Nov-toIL .Nde 0 Heir IL Jude,,.._... Mil~. ... In virtue Mil rtoh _In ......, 
-Kl-llf Jeeue Chrlel, Fellhlul 1--llfelwtlolnvauyour..,... ....,,...,...lntl-llfneed.toroul 
twve -"-the depth ., lnY 
'-IMil huiiiMr ....to whOGooll '­IIY., euoh ....,_to-·lnY ~ reiUm I
........ .-on. In 

,_,.........,..,, -.._ 
.... -,.., .. -,.,..... (lJifWOw ,....... lhne Hell lllllry'e, lhne Cllllrla)IL.N*pnytorueMIIel whO lnvau rour ei4L ,._ lUI. 
___,......_..,Itt••
PulillaMion --pnlllllaed. Tht. 
OOMelllllve..,.. 
TO THE PERSON WHO STOLE MY BOOKBAG IN SOUTH DINING HALL­PLEASE RETURN MY CLASS NOTES. YOU PROIIABL Y CAN'T USE THEM, ANYWAY. KEEP MY CALCULATOR AND ALL MY 800K8-FFIOM EVERY ONE OF MY CLA88E8-JUST PLEASE RETURN MY CLA88 NOTES TO 210 KEENAN. 
New York Timee beatMier lu-:It'a AI In Your lllnd by !lou...., ie oow avallele. Cal him and have him lal you • etory friend. 
.............:.................................................. 
"GIVE ME A PHONE, I'LL GIVE YOU THE WORLD'"· .OUMON 
GUIOIS-Thank you tor being YOU I I LOVI YOU I Your1 FOREVER,JACKIE 
Marlt'a SYR dille uid, "You don't have to print my ful name becauae thwe il only 1 Ronde" 
IINIOMIRECOVERY NITE!1 Senior a-Stutly Break et Chria' Ice Cream TONIGHT! 10:30pm-12midnight SEE YOU THERE! 
REGARDLESS of what hap­~....nobody could have betlw roommat• and friendllthan I do (even you, Jake). Thank you for being 10 won­dwful!!!!!! I love you ala lot. Me 
tenl-: etudy br-tooighr at Chria' tee Cream. 30 percent off everything! 10:30 to midnight. Don't mleeltf 
~ON CLU.ItUS OCTOBER BREAK Sign-up w.t H LaFortune Main Lobby 
THANkS 81'. JUDI 

SINIOM Watch for Poat-ar.duate ()pportunitiee 
Dey. 

WANTED: Eight fu!Hoving gu~!! Eight PW _,..looking for a new twielto the old SYR _,.., Grab eeven of your friendl and _.,. ue a C8li for the !iW>t of your lie on Oct.12! Cal 2183,284ll, or 28158 ASAP to help fi9ht eoclal apathy at NO!! 
To the •-lllhlenllf 122L,_,. The SYR-"Ilea totally 8/lchln"' Thanka to the t.ck of attendance on your 
We oow ..ooate'*''with actu•femMeI K eaya " If you rMIIy Ike my 811chln' heir tome <NWionile and check outtherwtl" K M~ " Surl'l Up!" K'e My. " lllellw to SYulv•than to SYU!" 
HI 
Becky! 

Ride needed to Waeh DC wea for break.Anne Marie 4084 
~-------------------~~ 
The Observer Monday, September 30, 1985 -page 11 
Saints upset 49ers 

NFL Standings
Bears crush Redskins in wild affair 
Dieter Brock, a 34-ycar-old Na­
AMPICAN CONFIIIDCE

NA110NAL CONFIIMNCE 
Chiefs 28, Seahawks 1 
... ....
tional Football League rookie, com­
w L T Pet. PF PA w L T Pet. PF PA
The unheralded New Orleans pleted 16 of 20 passes for 21 S yards 
o.IM 3 1 0 .750 102 57 Miami 3 1 0 .750 114 116
Bill Kenney fired two scoring 
N.Y.Gilllrta 3 1 0 .750 84 50 N.Y. Jela 3 1 0 .750 11 li7
Saints shocked the defending Super and two touchdowns as the un­
passes to Stephone Paige and Deron 
St. Louie 3 1 0 .750 128 106 -Engllwld 2 2 0 .500 70 81
Bowl champion San Francisco 49ers defeated Los Angeles Rams defeated 
Phlledelphla 1 3 0 .250 35 eo inclal-..pOIII 1 3 0 .250 150 106
Cherry tied an NFL record with four 
20-l 7 yesterday in the biggest upset the winless Atlanta Falcons I 7-6. 
WMhlngton 1 3 0 .2150 46 121 Buffalo 0 4 0 .000 4e tOO
interceptions in leading Kansas City 
c-.i c-..
ofthe early National Football League Brock, signed by the Rams after 11 
to a watery victory over the fumble­
Chlc.go 4 0 01.000 13e 811 Plttlburgh 2 1 0 .1!67 72 20 
season. seasons In the Canadian Football 
Delrolt 3 t 0 .750 tiO 71 Clev-.nd 2 2 0 .500 81 81
plagued Seahawks. 
MI...-3 1 0 .7150 110 tiO Houlton 1 3 0 .2150 41 78
The Saints outplayed the 49ers In League, put the Rams ahead to stay 
The Scahawk:s, 2-2, six days after a 
ar...a.y 1 3 0 .2150 74 113 Onclnnali 0 3 0 .000 112 113
San Francisco despite a patched-up when he and Henry Ellard hooked 
TllmPIIIIaY 0 4 0 .000 66 111
lopsided Monday night loss to the 
.... 
Kat.-Oty 3 1 0 .7150 111 85

offensive line, with quarterback up on a 64-yard touchdown play to 
-

Los Angeles Rams, killed themselves 
L.A.Rame 4 0 01.000 81 52 DenY• 2 2 0 .500 120 101
Dave Wilson throwing a a 43-yard make It 7-31n the second quarter. 
with mistakes in the game playfd 
-Ortea.. 2 2 0 .500 tiO 111 L.A. R81den 2 2 0 .500 Ill tiO 
touchdown pass to Eugene Good­

8an FranciiJCO 2 2 0 ,500 107 74 San Diego 2 2 0 .500 100 120
throughout a cold rain. The Chiefs 
Atlenta 0 4 0 .000 77 124 S.ttle 2 2 0 .500 106 122
low early In the fourth quarter for Pat u ...'-y kicked four field goals 
won for the third time in four games. 
the winning points. and the New York Jets made a cru­
v--,.,...., .. 
0.... 17, Houlfon 10

Wilson outperformed the 49ers' cial goal-line stand to hold offthe In­
Lions 30, Bucs 9 
St. Loull 43, OrMn a.y 28

quarterback, Joe Montana, who was dianapolis Colts 25-20. TheJets built. 
L.A. Rllideq 35, -Engllw1d 20 

sacked six times and Intercepted a 2S-17 lead after three periods on 
Mlnneeota 27, Buffalo 20 

Wide receiver Mark Nichols, who 
N.Y. Gi.-18, Phlledelphla 10 

twice In one of his worst perfor­the strength of Leahy's field goals 
hadn't caught a pass all season, 
.....City 28, Seattle 7

from 22, 3S, 48 and 45 yards before
mances as a pro. 
Detroit 30, TllftiPIIIIay II 

caught two for touchdowns as 
Chlc.go 45, WMhlngton to

Both teams came out of the game stopping the Colts in the last five 
Detroit, 3-1, beat Tampa Bay and 
New OltMne 20, San FranciiJCO t 7 

with 2-2 records. The 49ers lost only minutes on their S-yard line. 
Miami 30, DenY• 28

kept the Bucs winless in four games. 

N.Y. Je1a 26,1ndiiJlllll()lla 20 
one game last season, going IS-1 In Nichols, turning in the first two­

L.A. Raine 17, Atllntl8

the regular season -including two In earlier action, the Chicago TO game ofhis career, finished with 
Clev-.nd 2t. San 018110 7 
Todlly'aa...

decisive victories over New Orleans Bears piled up a dub-record 31 six catches for 54 yards, including 
Cincinnati at Plttlburgh 

· and 18-1 overall for an NFL record. points in the second quarter en scoring catches of 4 and 9 yardsThe Saints, who last beat San Fran­route to a a 4S-1 0 rout of the Was­from Eric Hipple. Hipple scored cisco In 1982 and had lost five hington Redskins. 
Detroit's other touchdown on a 1­straight since, had three new starters Willie Gault's 99-yard kickoff 
yard plunge with 1:57 remaining in 
Ballesteros wins World
In thdr offensive line because of In­return triggered Chicago's second­the game.
juries suffered a week earlier. But quarter spree and quarterback Jim the unit gave Dave Wilson good pass McMahon threw touchdown passes 
Giants 16, Eagles 1 0 
protection and opened holes for of 14 yards to Dennis McKinnon and 
Matchplay tournament 
some big runnnlng plays. 10 yards to Emery Moorehead and Cornerback Elvis Patterson 
"It wasn't bad for a makeshift also caught a 13-yard TD pass from four-hole lead at the halfway stage of
returned an Intercepted pass 29 line," said tackle Ralph Williams, one Walter Payton on a ha!Jback option the 36-hole final. 
yards for a touchdown S5 seconds 
of the Saints' key players Sunday. during the flurry. VIRGINIA WATER, England · Langer led by two holes after the
into ovcnime to boost the Giants "But 1 don't consider us a makeshift Severiano Ballesteros of Spain founh but the turning point came as 
over Philadelphia.
line. We're all professionals. We The Rcdskids, 1-3, never posted a record 6 and 5 victory over early as the sixth when Ballesteros
Patterson, a second-year playerwouldn't be here If we weren't. It's recovered and the Bears, who have an ailing Bernhard Langer of West chipped to within three feet of the
from Kansas, grabbed a pass thrown 
an awfully sweet victory." scored an NFL-leadlng 136 points in Germany yesterday in the final ofthe pin for a winning birdie.
by Eagles quarterback Ron Jaworski 
Sald San Francisco Coach Bill their first four victories, put the 1240,000 World Matcllplay Golf Thereafter, the defending cham·
and raced into the end zone behind a 
Walsh, "We certainly felt we could game out of reach early in the third Championship. pion caught, ovenook and then
host of blockers to give the Giants deal with their line. We did, after a quarter when McMahon hit Payton streaked away from Langer, who hit
their third victory ofthe season. 
It was the Spaniard's founh trl·fashion, but not to the extent we with a 33-yard touchdown pass. The Eagles, I-3, trailed 1 0-3late in umph in. I 0 consecutive ap· seven bogeys and conceded two 
normally would." holes on the lush course.
the founh quarter, but sent the game pearances in the tournament, just
Walsh added, "So far this season, In other early-afternoon games, It Ballesteros sank an eight-foot putt
into overtime when cornerback one shon of South African Garywas Dallas 17, Houston 10; Kansas
we're a team playing In spurts and at the eighth but Langer could not
Herman Edwards intercepted a Phil Player's record five titles. 
without consistency." City 28, Seattle 7; Detroit 30, Tampa match him from half that distance as 
Simms pass and ran three yards for Bay 9; New York Giants 16, Philadel­Ballesteros' six-hole margin bet· the rot set in.
the tying touchdown with 3:02The Miami Dolphins, meanwhile, phia 10; Minnesota 27, Buffalo 20; tered the previous best winning Langer, the U.S. masters cham­remaining.
clipped the Denver Broncos 30-26 Los Angeles Raiders 3S, New 
score, Player's 6 and 4 success pion, said later his lingering virus as Dan Marino won his much­England 20, and St. Louis 43, Green against American Jack Nicldaus in had affected his judgment on the filst
Vikings 27, Bills 20
awaited duel with John Elway, pas­

Bay 28. 1966. greens. He missed three-footers at sing for 390 yards and three Cincinnati visits Pittsburgh in The 28-year-old Ballesteros, who the 1Oth and 12th and one from
A 22-yard touchdown run by Ted
touchdowns. Monday night's game. beat Langer 2 and 1 in last year's title four-feet at the 13th in the morning.
Brown with just under threeMarino · despite the loss of his decider, admitted he played "as well At the 15th, he fluffed a seven-foot minutes to play led Minnesota over
best receiver, Mark Clayton, to a Cowboys 17, Oilers 1o as I needed to" against the West Ger­birdie attempt to let Ballesteros off
the winless Bills. 
sprained ankle early in the third man this time. the hook. The Spaniard turned In 71 Quarterback Tommy Kramerquarter-completed 2S of 43 passes ·Dallas quarterback Danny White Langer, also 28, conceded he had with three birdies and hit anotherthrew three touchdown passes forand repeatedly kept the Denver 

lofted a game-winning 1-yard touch­"played as badly as I have In a long three in the afternoon.
the Vikings, including one to Brown,defense off-balance, making full use down pass to Fred Cornwell with time." The second 18 holes were evenbut Minnesota, 3·1, squandered a
of his available receivers. 1:47 to play and the Cowboys' He added, "But I was very tired worse for Langer -this time on the
17-point halftime lead before settingIn other late-afternoon action, ful­defense sacked Houston quarter­and still suffering from the cold I had fairway as well. He was In the trees atup Brown's game-winning run. 
lback Kevin Mack ran for one score back Warren Moon 12 times. before'the tournament" the founh, three-putted the sixth

Running back Greg Bell had hisand caught one of Gary Danielson's Both men said they were drained and conceded the ninth after finding best day of the season for the 0-4two touchdown passes to lead the The comeback helped case the by their cffons In the Ryder Cup two the rough with his drive. 
Bills, rushing 24 times for 92 yardsCleveland Browns to a 21-7 win misery for Dallas kicker Rafael Scp­weeks ago when Britain and Europe The 12th was another disaster.
and one touchdown.
over the San Diego Chargers, who tlen, who missed four field goals, In­beat the United States for the first Langer powered his drive into the lost starting quarterback Dan Fouts cluding two that hit the uprights, the time In 28 years. left-side rough, chipped just a few
Cards 4 3, Packers 28
to Injury. Fouts, who has thrown for last coming with 13:20 left In the feet Into more undergrowth, then more yards and touchdowns than game. 
Leonard Smith set up I 0 second­"I don't feel it was Bernhard drove across the fairway Into the any other active player In the NFL, The Cowboys, 3-1, sacked Moon 
quarter points with a blocked punt Langer I beat today but someone rightside gallery before concedingsuffered torn ligaments In his right seven times for SS yards In losses In 
and an Interception and Nell Lomax else," Ballesteros said of his below· the hole. They halved the 13th -but knee In the first quarter and was the first half alone. Moon also was In­passed for three touchdowns in the par opponent, whose putting and that left Langer 6-down with onlyscheduled to undergo arthroscopic tercepted three times and lost one third and founh quarters, helping St. tee-to-green game fell away in the five holes left. 
surgery that could sideline him for fumble In an unproductive first half Louis roll past Green Bay. unscasonally warm autumn sun at In the playoff for third place, up to six weeks. as the Oilers fell to 1-3. 
The Cardinals, following a score­the tree-lined Wentwonh course. florida-based South African Denis less opening period, exploded for 26 Ballesteros won 170,000 to bring Watson, 28, defeated American points in just under 18 minutes ex­his earnings in this event to an es· Andy Nonh, the U.S. open cham­tending to the third quarter. The timatcd 1450,000. Langer's collecte pion, 3 and 2. Cardinals, 3·1, dropped Green Bay 135,000. Watson, 28, earned 128,000 and to 1-3 despite Jesse Clark's 80-yard Langer sparkled briefly in the Nonh, who was the last American run for the Packers, longest ever by a morning session but looked a beaten left in the tournament, picked up St. Louis opponent. man when Ballesteros raced to a 121,000. 

•4 
AMERICAN 
CANCER
EUROPE 
~
• SOCIETYS 
Fall-Winter 
Ka«:.co'sHair 

Call for Lowest Rate and Assistance 
Styling 

Seven Seas Travel 



525 N•.Michigan 232-7995 
Phone 233-4957 

--------------~-----------~-------------------------~----._________.. 
The Observer Monday, September 30, 1985-page 12 
Texas Open delayed by rainstorm; play to continue today if possible 
round to follow immediately -weat­play eventually was halted by dark-her permitting. ness. 

Senior jim Tyler finished stxtb In Friday's National Catholic cross country meet to lead tbe Irlsb to a tblrd-place flnlsb. St. Thomas (Minn.) took tbe victory. For more on tbe meet, see Pete Gegen's story on page 16. 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas -Heavy rain wiped out play Sunday in the storm-delayed $350,000 Texas Open and forced a postponement until Monday ofthe golftournament wind-up. 
More than three inches ofrain fell early Sunday, flooding the Oak Hills Country Club. 
"The golf course was just un­playable," said Mike Shea, tourna­ment supervisor for the PGA tour. 
The schedule now calls for the completion ofthird round play early Monday morning with the fourth 

The forecast is for continued rain Monday morning, with clearing in the afternoon. 
"In the event we complete the third round, but weather prevents us from playing the fourth round, the sponsor has agreed to pay the full purse and we'll have a 54-hole tournament," Shea said. 
Tournament leader Jodie Mudd and 14 other players have yet to complete their third-round play. 
A series of thunderstorms forced two delays Saturday and the day's 
At that point Mudd, 25, seeking his first PGA tour victory, held a five­shot lead. He was 13-under-par for the tournament with five holes to play in the third round. 
He was trailed by John Mahaffey and Mark Hayes, each at S-under-par for the tournament. Mahaffey has completed 1 5 holes of third round play and Hayes has finished 13 holes. , 
Ken Brown ofScotland and rookie Steve Jones are another shot back at 7-under-par for the tournament. Jones has finished 14 holes of third round play, Brown 15. 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
didn't have any zip on his passes," said Woodson. "I suppose that was because ofhis shoulder injury. 
"I think as soon as he (Beuerlein) gets the ball and looks at his in­tended receiver, he never takes his eye off him." 
But Beuerlein's problems were not the sole reason for Notre Dame's offensive woes. As was the case two weeks ago when the Irish lost to Michigan, Notre Dame's play selc­tion was questionable. On their first 13 first-down plays the Irish called 11 running plays, with Pinkett get­ting the call on seven of the first nine. 
"Steve wasn't throwing the ball as accurately as he has been," noted Faust. "We felt we could run on them on first down." 
That belief proved false, and Notre Dame backed itself into a comer by not passing until it had to. The Irish trailed 21-3 heading into the fourth quarter before they scored their first touchdown on a three-yard run by Pinkett. Beuerlein hit Pat Cusack with a pass for a two­point conversion that made the score 21-11, with close to nine minutes left. 
When Purdue gave them the ball right back after three plays and a 10­yard punt, the Irish had a chance to make things interesting. They had a first down at their own 49-yard line. 
"I felt we were still in the ball game at that point," said Faust. "We were within striking distance with more than six minutes left, but we didn't move the ball -their defense held." 
That was something that Purdue's to 21 7, and scored on four drives of 78 yards or longer. 
Late in the second quarter, one of those drives was kept alive by a criti­cal penalty for "illegal participa­tion." What that meant was too many men on the field, and the results were disastrous for Notre Dame. Instead offacing a fourth-and­eight on the Irish 41, Purdue wound up with a first down on the 26. Four plays later, Everett hit Ray Wallace for a 15-yard touchdown pass and a 14-0 lead. 
"That was a case of disorganiza­tion," said Irish cornerback Mike Haywood. "It's one of those things where a guy (the sixth defensive back) is coming out on the field not calling out the new coverage. It's a situation where there's a lack of communication, and when people aren't concentrating there's going to be mental mistakes that will cost us." 
So far the mistakes have proven all too costly, and with 4-0 Air Force coming up next Saturday fn Colorado Springs, the time to start concentrating is now. 
llllunt.y'ao.­
Notre Dame  0  3  0  14  - 17  
Purdue  7  7  7  14  - 35  
a-t,.  

PUR -c.ter 1 run (llrigga kick) PUR-WilKe 15 p.-from Everett (llrigga kick) NO -FG c.ney.48 PUR -Griffin 12 p.-from Everett (llrigga kick) NO -Plnkett3 run (CuACk p-from Beuertein) PUR -WilKe 32 p.-from Ev..U (llriggl kick) PUR-Woodllon30interceptionretum(llrigglkick) NO-F..OOICO 1 run (p.-felled) 
NO Pur Flratdowna 16 27 Ruahing ettempla 41 37 Net Y.cla Ruahing 56 114 Nel Y.cla P.-ing 161 368 P-c:omp-attempted 12-33 27-48 Had intercepted 2 1 ToiiiiNetY.cla 217 482 Fumblee-loat Hl 3-1 Penalti..yerda 8-61 8-68 Punta-average 8-47 6-28 
Individual uadln 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Plnkell21-45; Andryaiak 6-16; F..OOICO 3-11; Stama 2-5; Monahan 1-4; Beuerlein 8--25; Purdue: WilKe 17-65; Everett 8­

We are pleased to announce that the following 1985 graduates of the University of Notre Dame have recently become associated with our firm. 
CHICAGO OFFICE DENVER OFFICE 
Julia A. Schwebel, Consulting
Samuel A. Awad, Consulting Jerome R. Judd, Audit 
BS Mathematics
BS Aerospace Engineering BA Accounting
Paul K. Sidrys, ConsultingSusan M. Cessar, Consulting 
DETROIT OFFICE BA EconomicsBBA MIS 
Brian A. Bartkowiak, AuditJames W. Sowar, AuditLinda S. Cleveland, Consulting 

BBA AccountingBA AccountingBBA Finance 

William A. Montague, ConsultingSandi L. Stevens, AuditPatricia A. Conway, Consulting 
MS Accounting, MISBA AccountingBBA MIS 

Jill K. Strenzel, Consulting
Robert J. Davis, Consulting HOUSTON OFFICE BBA Finance
BA Psychology, Economics Paul D. Adelizzi, Tax Andrea M. Yargo, Tax
Kathryn J. Donahue, Consulting BBA Accounting BA Economics Annette C. Peterson, Consulting
JD Tax Law 

Stephen H. Wagner, Consulting
Bernard 0. Dy, Audit BS Computer Science BA Economics
BA Accounting INDIANAPOLIS OFFICE 

Mary M. Welch, ConsultingMatthew J. Eaken, Audit Verrita L. Washington, Tax
BBA MISBA Accounting BBA Accounting

Thomas E. Woidat, AuditDaniel P. Fallon, Consulting 
BA Accounting
BA Economics, Computers LOS ANGELES OFFICE 
Andrew L. Wolf, Audit
Daniel S. Falter, Audit Bradford K. Amman, Tax 
BA Accounting
BA Accounting MBA Accounting 
Sherri L. Flohr, Consulting Jeffrey C. Williams, Audit
CHICAGO WORLD HEADQUARTERS BS Mathematics, Computers BBA Accounting
Steve Chang, Consulting James R. Gerbo, Consulting Frank S. Wosczyna, Consulting
BBA MIS BS Mechanical Engineering BBA Computer Science 
Stanton J. Taylor, Consulting Kathleen M. Hogan, Consulting 
BS Computer Science MINNEAPOLIS OFFICE BA Economics, Computer Appl. 
Judy A. Fenlon, Audit

ATLANTA OFFICE 
Christine Jeffirs, Consulting 
BBA Accounting

William M. Grojean, Audit
BA Computer Applications BA Accounting

Kathleen M. Kelly, Consulting NEW JERSEY 
Richard M. Lewis, Consulting
BS Chemistry, Biology Daniel J. Brady, Audit BA Business
Michael J. Kennelly, Audit BBA AccountingDavid M. O'Harren, Audit
BA Accounting BA Accounting 
NEW YORK OFFICE
Thomas F. Knee, Consulting William J. McDermott, Audit
BS Mathematics SALTIMORE OFFICE BBA Accounting

Mark D. Ludtke, Consulting Jeffrey J. Allison, Audit John T. McHugh, Consulting

BBA Finance BA Accounting BBA Computer Science 
Kathleen M. Maher, Tax 

BOSTON OFFICE
JD Tax Law PHILADELPHIA OFFICE 
Thomas Brittenbach, Consulting
David M. Mastic, Consulting Ann M. Gobble, Audit 
MBA Business

BBA Finance BBA Accounting
Patrick D. Burke, Consulting
Marylou P. Yepsen, Consulting Michael M. Marchio, Consulting
BA Engineering
.BBA Accounting BBA Computer Science Edward V. Gartland, Tax 
Kevin Q. McCarter, Consulting Donna L. Skokowski, Consulting
BA Accounting

BA Economics BA Liberal Arts 
William G. Goslee, AuditMary C. Minogue, Consulting 
BA Accounting ST. LOUIS OFFICE BS Mathematics 
Jane D. Panfil, AuditMary Ni, Audit 

CINCINNATI OFFICE BBA AccountingBA Accounting 
Peter J. Effler, ConsultingMichael J. Pigott, Audit 
BA Engineering TOLEDO OFFICE BA Accounting Patricia J. Stierwalt, Audit Edward C. Roohan, Audit BBA Accounting
COLUMBUS OFFICE BA Accounting 
Robert J. Doone, Consulting 
WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICEBBA Finance
Marya R. Sakowicz, Consulting Laura L. Deister, Consulting
BA Sociology DALLAS OFFICE BBA MIS

Jennifer C. Salvador, Consulting Steven C. Burt, Audit James G. Koehr, Consulting

BA MIS BBA Accounting BS Computer Science 

Michael W. Schmutz, Consulting David A. Montoya, Audit Henry F. Lange, Audit

BS Chemical Engineering BBA Accounting BBA Accounting

Jean M. Schommer, Audit Sharon A. Soller, Audit Thomas J. Treat, Consulting

BA Accounting BBA Accounting BBA Industrial Management 

Our Representatives Will Be Conducting Campus Interviews on the Following Dates: 
October 15 Consulting 
October 16 Tax 
October 30 & 31 Audit 
Please Contact Your Placement Office to Arrange an Interview. 
ARTHUR 
ANDERSEN 
&ID 

defense had been doing all day long. 23; c.ter&-17; Medlock 2·11; Foeter1-11; Team 1· -13; 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603 (312) 58()-()033 
Two incompletions and a sack later, 

PASSING -Notre Dame: Beuerlein 7-2~1,88;the Irish were forced to punt. Andryaiak 5-8-1,73; Purdue: Ev..U 27-49-1,368; 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Brown 3-30; Plnkett3­In contrast, the Boilers had little 26; Euon 2·50; Green 2-48; Miler 1-8; Monohan 1· ·2: Purdue: carter 8-58; Scott 5-85; WilKe 4-n;
problem moving the ball. They out­

Griffin 4-48; Jackaon 3-52: Hay•3-48;gained the Irish in total yardage 482 Attendance-69,338 

Baseball Standings 
NAllONAL ~UI! AIIPICAN ~UI!
,_
e.. 

w L Pet. Qll w L Pet. Qll St. Louta 118 58 . 628 Toronto 118 57 .632 New Yen 115 81 .6011 3 New Yen 112 62 .5117 5.5 Mon!r.., 81 74 .523 16.5 80 74 .5111 17.5
s.ltlmore Chicego 74 81 .4n 23.5 Detroit 80 75 .516 18 Phl~ta 71 83 .4111 211 lloeton 711 n .5011 111.5 P1n.burgh 53100 .346 43.5 Mitwauk.. 67 88 .432 31 Cleveland 57100 .363 42 U.AtlCiaM 112 83 .5114 Waet 
·-

Clnctnna~ 86 68 .558 5.5 California 87 68 .581 San Otego 711 76 . 510 13 KarwUClty 86 69 .555 1 Hoooton 78 n 503 14 Ch1cego 81 74 .523 6 Allanta 83 82 .406 ~ o.ldand 75 81 .481 12.5 San Franoeco 511 86 .381 33 Minneaota 73 83 .468 14.5 
SMilie 
73 83 .468 14.5 
511 86 .381 28
r-
Y-...y'aRaeulla 

Y-*Y'aRaeulla New Yen 4-11, s.ltlmor• o-2 Mon!r_, 7, St. LCMJil 5 Boaton 8, Detroit4 New Yen II, Ptn.bu~ 7, 10 '"""Ill Call1orniell, Cleveland 3 Adanta 3, San Diego 2 Minnelota e. Ka,_ Clty 3 
ClnctnMII 5, Hoollon 0 Toronto 13, Mitwauk" 5 Chicago 8, Phllldllphla 2 Chicago 3, o.ldand 0 Loe Angolea 7, San Franoeco 2 T-5,S..ttle2 
.------·---------~--------­
The Observer Monday, September 30, 1985 -page 13 
Baseball team wins two ~,. of four this weekend t ..., · 
By PETE VERDI and used five pitchers in the 10-1 Sports Writer beating. "If pitchers don't throw strikes, 
This weekend was a busy one for you can't win ballgames," Gallo said. the Notre Dame baseball team. The Saturday, Notre Dame played host Irish played two doubleheaders at a to Spring Arbor. The Irish had the 
very windy Jake Kline Field. When last laugh, taking both games from the dust had settled, the Irish had the opposition. come away with two victories. In game one, the Irish used an 
Spring Arbor College fell victim to eight-run fourth inning en route to a Notre Dame twice on Saturday, 16-4 victory. Notre Dame pitcher while St. Francis ( IU.) took two from Paul Mauk went five innings, picking 
the Irish yesterday. up the win. The big play for the Irish 
Yesterday, Notre Dame did battle carne in the fourth inning. when first with the Saints, who finished third in baseman Tom Guilfoile hit a the nation last year in the NAJA. The homerun with the bases loaded, put­
Irish did not falr well against St. ting the game out ofreach for Spring Francis, dropping both ends of the Arbor. doubleheader. 
The Irish took game two, 11-3.
The Irish let the first game slip Notre Dame pitcher Mike Harmonthrough their grasp, 8-7, in eight in­scattered four hits over five innings nings. They led twice, but let St. 

to notch the victory. As in game one,Francis back in the game both times. 
the fourth inning proved to be all the"We gave them all eight runs," Irish needed. They produced five
said Irish Head Coach Larry Gallo. ... 
runs, including two doubles, in that"We did not play fundamentally inning. The offense pounded outsound baseball." 
nine hits in the game.
The Irish could manage only six hits, and commited four errors in the With two weeks left in the fall 
Robert Banks (56) and Greg Dingens (92) reach 
game. season, Notre Dame's record is 3-9. 
Purdue quarterback jim Everett just a bit late on
Game two was a dilferent story. The Irish have three games on the 
this play during Saturday's game, just as the Irish 
The Irish were never in the game. road, and then come home to Jake They scored one run on two hits, Kline Field for their final four games. 
Mets win, while Cardinals lose; Toronto lowers magic no. to three 
top of the ninth inning to tic the cut the Cardinals' lead to three score at 7·7. games . PITTSBURGH Gary Carter The Mets, who won only three of 
Blue Jays 13, Brewers 5 

stroked a two-run homer with one their last six games with last-place out in the top of the tenth yesterday Pittsburgh, picked up a game in the MILWAUKEE -Tony Fernandez to give the New York Mets a 9-7 vic­National League East when St. Louis drove in four runs with four hits,tory over the Pittsburgh Pirates and lost to Montreal 7-5. 
highlighting a season-high 22-hit at­pull New York to within three games tack yesterday that powered theof the first ·place St. Louis Cardinals . 

Toronto Blue Jays over the Mil·

With one out, Keith Hernandez Expos 7, Cardinals 5 
waukee Brewers 13-5.

singled and Carter hit his 32nd Toronto, which also set its season­homer, a career high, against loser MONTREAL · Hubie Brooks lined high for runs, began the day leading Larry McWilliams, 6-9. It was a two-run triple to right field yester­the American League East by sixCarter's 13th home run in Septem­day, breaking up a seventh-inning tie games over New York, which beatber, tying a Mets record set by Dave and lifting the Montreal Expos to a Baltimore 4-0 in the first game of aKingman inJuly 1975. 7-5 triumph over the St. Louis Car­doubleheader. The Blue Jays'The victory went to Jesse Orosco, dinals. 
lowered their magic number for7-6, who worked the final 2 2-3 in­The loss left the Cardinals' magic clinching their first-ever division

nings. number to clinch the National title to three.
HowardJohnson had homered off League East title at four. The New Pirate reliever Cecillo Guante in the York Mets' 9-7 victory in Pittsburgh Uoyd Moseby, who had three hits, 
MORE Slats. Power' IMPROVED F1le Handltng Reporttng' 
and Ernle Whitt added two-run homers for Toronto. Jesse Barfield
• 
also got three hits. The Blue Jays 
a un1que 
ripped seven pitchers, including starter Ray Burris, 9-13, who got
opportunity 
only two outs and was charged with six runs. 
for 
Math/Science 

Canyou (Majors/Minors/Aptitudes) afford to gamblewith the LSAT, GMAT, 
_ GRE,orMCAJ? 
ProbaoJy not. Great grades alone may not be enough to impress the grad schoofot your choice. 
Scores play a part. And that's how Stanley H. Kaplan­can help . 
The Kaplan course teaches test-taking techniques, reviews course suQjects, and increases the odds that you'll do the best you cando. 
So if you've been out of school for a while and need a refresher, or even if you're fresh out ofcollege, do what over 1 million students have done. 
Jake Kaplan. Why take l

For you and for the world. Peace Corps will combine 
a chance with your

your education with training to prepare you for a 
volunteer position in: • Education • Fisheries • career? 
Health • Agriculture • Forestry or other areas. You'll 
meet new people, learn a new language, experience 
a new culture and gain a whole new outlook. And 
while you're building your future, you'll be helping 
KAPLAN 

people in developing countries learn the basics of 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL aNTER LTD

technological advancement. 
The worlds leading Interviews: October 9th In the test prep organization. Career & Placement Services SOUTH BEND AREA 
Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr.

Memorial Library 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219)"272·4135 
The Enhanced and E;cpanded Statistical Package for IBM PC/XT/AT's 
SPSSIPC •. ~With SPSSIPC• -Stallsta" 
and SPSSIPC• ~· loon THE 
moot~·-­
~a;;':._totn:,~ ==:'AI"t~~­
,_,_and~~ 
With ""' mMlfrlme """"""" And
SPSSIPC • conMS Willi .-ythlng 
~~-=~ 
pocQoo With ~dooJ­
andcus.,.,...._,, 
SPSS/PC+ 
• [)spW( fi1IIII8!IO' & editor 
• 
File fNifehlng & """9"'!1 

• 
File ,.,.,'"""populef PCPfOQI'III'IS 


~ol~·
·---&
• Cros.statx-.1 
• O.scttptNe stlltlsbcs • AllAlpje A9gi'8S$'OO 
•AMM 
• Plots&grap/15 
• 
Flaxlblll a.to rranslonn8bon

• 
eu.xr.zed ,.,_,. 



SPSSIPC+ ADIIUICID S1IIT1STJCS 
• MANOIII 
.F8Ciof~ 
·c.-~ 
.[)sc,__~ 
·L~~ 
SPSSIPC+ 1lllllES 
• Srul> & INJnnerlllbleS 
·~"'-a.to
• ""'"""""""qual!y
lllblesond""""" 
.Fulrongeol~­
r<J ""'*•opllom 
For """" lfllormahon. oorlaC1 our 
Mar1<elolg Depor1rnenllll 
SPSSinc. 
444N.~­C~.l.60611 
3121329-3500 
IN EUROPE· 
~~f,f'B.\1 
4200 N:; Gonnchom TheNolher1ands. P11one • 31183036711 TWX 21019 
VISit Masloteatd and Amencan ExpntSS iEC8IJI8d 


--------------------------------------------------~----------~~--~------------~--~------------~
-

Monday, September 30, 1985-page 14
The Observer 

Irish volleyball upset hopes dashed as Wildcats soundly win on Friday 
By CHUCK EHRMAN  "It wasn't very nice  to watch,"  troubles behind and hopefully get  
Sports Writer  said senior Tracy Bennington. "And I  off to a great start. The next five  
don't think Coach Lambert knows  matches are all against conference  
As far as the Irish volleyball team  what to say to us anymore. It's just  opponents.  Things  kick  off  this  
is concerned, victories are becom­ up to us."  Friday with a roadtrip to Xavier in  
ing an endangered species, in large  Cincinnati,  Ohio.  Then  come  
part due to the top-notch competi­ For now, the Irish have come tum­ Dayton, Marquette, Loyola and But­ 
tion they have been f.lcing lately.  bling down, Humpty Dumpty style.  ler.  
On Friday night, Irish upset hopes  And it will be up to Lambert to patch  
were  once  more  dashed  by  vol­ things back together before North  Last  year  the  Irish  finished  as  
leyball  power Northwestern.  The  Star Conference play begins later  runner-up in the conference. If the  
Wildcats,  ranked  17th in the  na­ this week.  Irish can get their entire game going,  
tional polls, beat the Irish in three  a conference title is not out ofreach.  
straight games, 15-0, 15-7, 15-5.  Confetence  play  should  be  a  Hopefully the team will be able to  
Without  a  doubt, it  was  not  a  breath offresh air for the Irish. They  put together a winning streak and  
pretty sight.  should be able to put all their past  tum the seasOn around.  

Saint Mary's finishes in third place in invitational tournament at home 

ByJD.L SARBENOFF 
Sports Writer 
On Saturday, the Saint Mary's vol­
leyball team finished third in an in­
vitational tournament at Angela 
Athletic Facility. Other teams 
featured in the tournament were 
Bethel College, Lake Michigan Col­
lege, Manchester College and Tri­
State University. 
The Belles triumphed over Bethel College, 12-15, 15-9, 15-3, in the first round. Junior Mary Reidy of Lake Bluff, ill. had four kills in the first game. Moira Cronan, a sop­homore from Overland Park, Kan., contributed six serves, while fresh' man Tammy Suth, a South Bend native, led in serve receptions. Sop­homore Colleen Mergens of Chicago had eight assists. 
In the second game, freshman Margaret Feldman from Naperville, Ill., and Reidy both had five kills. Sophomore Kara Telrulve of In­dianapolis had seven pass attempts. Mergens again led in assists with 19. 
In the third game of the first round, it was Reidy who had six kills. Freshman Katherine Koller, another South Bend native, had seven serve attempts, and Mergens had 13 as­sists. 
After not playing in the second round, the Belles were defeated in the third round by Lake Michigan 
Runners 
continuedfrom page 16 
miles," said Warth, "but I was hur­
ting towards the end." 
Ron Markezich finished three 
seconds behind Warth for 17th 
place. Markezich, a freshman, has 
been very impressive in his first two 
races. 
"They started out f.lst, a lot f.lster 
than in the first race," said 
Markezich. "I just came back again." 
Jeff Van Wie was the final runner to score for the Irish, crossing the finish line at 25:39 in 47th place. 
Missing from the race were Mike 
Collins and Dan Garrett. Collins was 
set to run on Thursday, but Friday 
morning his ankle swelled, forcing 
him to sit out the race. Garrett did 
not run because ofa groin injury, but 
he is expected back soon. 
Notre Dame head coachJoe Piane College, who was favored to win coming into the tourney. The score of the match was 16-14, 12-15, 12­15. 
In the first game of round three, Feldman had six kills and eight pass attempts. Reidy's two blocks for points helped fire-up the offense, as did Mergens' 18 assists. 
Feldman paced the team in kills and pass attempts in the ~cond game. Reidy led in serve attempts, and Mergens had 15 assists for the Belles. 
Suth contributed eight kills, followed by Feldman and Reidy with five, in the third game. In addition, Reidy also had nine serve recep­tions. Mergens once again had an outstanding game with 3 7 assists. 
Manchester defeated Saint Mary's in round four, 15-11, 15-7. In the first game, Feldman and Reidy had four kills apiece. Feldman also had one block, as did Telrulve, and eight serve receptions. Mergens led in serves with seven and in assists with 15. 
Feldman had three kills in the second game. Suth and Telrulve had six receptions each for the Belles. Mergens, meanwhile, had six serves and 10 assists. 
In the fifth and final round for Saint Mary's, the Belles lost to Tri­State University, 15-9, 7-15, 9-15. 
Lake Michigan College won the tournament, beating Manchester in 
wanted very much to win, but he was happy with the way his team performed. 
"I would have loved to win it, but I'm satisfied," said Piane. "Our kids competed well, very well. 
"Everybody on the team can run better," he continued. "But Magill and Warth did a hell of a job, and Markezich already improved on his first race. Van Wie ran well in only his second varsity race, and Tyler ran with alot ofguts. 
"We were the only team with four runners in the top 20," continued Piane. "Ifwe had Garrett and Collins, we would have won it." 
Piane also commented on the meet's champs, St. Thomas. 
"They ran very well," he said. "They returned six of their top seven runners from last year, and they got a transfer student who is now their top runner." 
Villanova head coach Dr. Charles Jenkins' squads also had a good 

,Browning hopes for MVP, but doesn't think he'll win 
went 20-6 for the New York Yankees iri 1954. CINCINNATI -Cincinnati Reds 
Harvey Haddix went 20-9 for theleft-bander Tom Browning doesn't St. Louis Cardinals in 1953, the lastthink his 20 victories will be enough National League rookie to win 20.
to land him Rookie of the Year However, Haddix f.liled to win thehonors in the National League. 
Rookie ofthe Year vote, which wentBrowning, 20-9, pitched 7 1-3 to the Dodgers' Junior Gilliam.

strong innings in a 5-2 victory over the Houston Astros Saturday to Browning figures he, too, will win become the major leagues' first 20 but watch Rookie of the Year rookie 20-game winner in 31 years. honors go to someone else -Vince The last one was Bob Grim, who Coleman ofthe St. Louis Cardinals. 
the championship match, 1 5-10, 15­8. 
Coach Mary Jo Lambert feels really good about her team's play be­cause the team is playing well as a unit. 
"I am really pleased with their progress. The highlight of the tournament was the match with Lake Michigan. In a couple more weeks, we will have a much stronger offense." 
Coach Lambert went on to say that she felt it was an advantage that the team was so young. 
"I think it is an advantage because I can train them my way," she said. 
She also felt that although the team played extremely well as a unit, there were a couple of players who had really outstanding games. In particular, she mentioned Kara Tekulve. 
"She is our ace-in-the-hole," said Lambert. 
However, the volleyball coach also cited Margaret Feldman, Mary Reidy and Tammy Suth for being so solid and consistent. 
Kara Telrulve also was happy with 
her team's performance. 
"We played as a team," said 
Tekulve. "We have a lot ofpotential. 
Overall, I am very pleased with the 
way we played." 
The Belles' next game will be 
tomorrow at Tri-State University. 

meets. His men placed second, and his women won their division. 
"We are very excited with the way the women ran," said Jenkins. "The men also ran well. Unfor­tunately we left one of them home, but then everyone has to deal with injuries." 
The final team results of the women's race were Villanova, Mar­quette and Georgetown finishing 1­2-3. The Notre Dame women's cross country club placed 14th against stiff varsity competition. 

Sophomore guard David Rivers takes swing at bat in yesterday's softballgame between the Notre Dame men's and women's basket­ball team. The men's team opens practice on October 15. 
Soccer team breaks even 
Speclal to 1be Obeerver and that goal proved to be the 
only one in the 1-0 loss, which 

The Notre Dame soccer team makes Notre Dame's record 2-7­split two games this weekend on 1. the road. After winning an On Saturday, Notre Dame's Bill overtime victory against Gross scored a goal to send the Wisconsin-Green Bay on Satur­game with the Pheonix into day, the Irish dropped a match to overtime, and teammate Martin Northwestern yesterday. Mangialardi scored the game­
The Wildcats scored 42 winner in overtime. The Irish minutes into yesterday's game, won, 3-2. 
MICHIANA CLEANERS, INC. 720 W EDISON RD. 
(LOCATED BEHIND GRAPE RD & HICKORY) MISHAWAKA TEL 255-2001 
HELP WANTED 
COUNTER PERSONNEL AND LAUNDRY ATTENDANT 
HOURS: 3pm till 9pm 9pm till MIDNIGHT 
(PREFERABLY MALE) 

PLEASEAPPLYINPERSON GREAT JOB-PAYS WELL 

NOTRE DAME·s OWN ..~DVERTISERS 
POSITIONS NOW AVAILABLE ART • WRITING • PUBLISHING 

"You just never know where if might take yo'u..." -Extra-CUIIicular 
239-7668 

'JI['4(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------M--o•n•d•a-y••s_e_p.te_m
__b•e•r•3•0•'•19•8•5----p·a-ge__1_5 

Bloom County 
ACROSS 1 Instrument 5 Mondale's 
nickname 10 Weight ofa 
container 14 Too bad! 15 Logrolling 
tournament 16 Clothed 17 Weather 
forecast 20 Betel 21 Croesus' 
kingdom 22 Some 23 Hasten 25 Rows 27 More weather 
forecast 35 Three: lt. 36 Scattered 37 Composer Erik 38 Bridge lee 40 Curl the lip 43 Costa­44 Cays 46 Nuncupative 48 Tennis call 49 More weather 
forecast 53 Detergent 54 Lady of Spain: 
abbr. 55 Quiz 58 "-directed" 61 Marble 65 More weather 
forecast 68 Film spool 69 Pianist 
Peter's family 70 Trim 71 Ms Ferber 72 Concord Ia one 73 Ma Rowlands 
DOWN 1 Laugh 2 Winglike 3 Teardown 4 Human spirit 5 To and­6 Islamic unit 
of weight 7 "Now-me 

MJW, IF I W&e 1l?fll"y f1 t.f}f/T... II /i'f/Frti?N... II HMt./Gf/N... liN flU. -1/f?OIA'/P, OCCI1510NIIt.t.Y Wt.(;flf?.­
MIN~CJ 8008 ... ~ I WOllt.CJ 1?1/N \ 01/el? 11£/?E 1/NCJ JIJMfON tr. 
91/ 
Tnbune Media Services, Inc. 3/30/85
Friday's Solution 

""Rights Reserved  .  
8 Tough tissue  
9 Astrology  
Item  
10 Ft. Worth  
school letters  
11 Soprano Gluck  
12 Forecast word  
13 Whirlpool  
18 Pelage  
19 Flax fibers  
24 Son of Seth  
26 Fly high  
27 "Toys In the-"  
28 Young student  
29 "I cannot ­ 
lie"  
30 Have  
31 -a kind 32 Useful  3/30/85  
33 Gambling man 34 William  47 Detection device  59 Taj Mahal site 60 Halt  
Butler­39 Certain glass 41 Hesitation sounds  50 Alleviating 51 First game 52 Carrying on 55 Field  62 Author James 63 Comparison word 64 Ms Kett  
42 Cheers  56 Vehicle  66 Chicken ­ king  

: :oo THE SAB PRESENTS ~... : 


: Tuesday, October 1· Saturday, October 5 : 
• • Tues. Oct 1 48Hours 7,9,11 • • • Wed. Oct2 TradingPlaces 7, 9:15, 11:30 •• • Thurs. Oct3 Trading Places 7, 9:15, 11:30 • • • Fri. Oct 4 Beverly Hills Cop 7, 9, 11 •• • Sat. Oct 5 Beverly Hills Cop 7, 9, 11 • 
• ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM • 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
1lJ 7ff/Ne 5elF 
tJEmlle. 
0 
D 
Campus 


The Arnolds feign death until the Wagners, sensing the sudden awkwardness, are compelled to leave. 
•3:00 
P.M. · Cardinal O'Hara Lecture, Emerging Forces in the World Economy, jack 

N. 
Behrman, Luther Hodges Distinguished Professor of the University of North Carolina, Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Room 122, Sponsored by College ofBusiness Auditorium 

•7:00 
P.M. · Prescntadon/Rccepdon, Arthur Young and Company, Senior Alumni Club, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, For all scheduled Accountancy Seniors and MBA's 

•7:00 
P.M. · Prescntadon/Rccepdon, IBM, Upper Lounge, University Club, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, For all scheduled Accountancy Seniors 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Honey Glazed Corned Beef Roast Turkey with Cornbread Dressing Stir Fry Chicken & Chinese Vegetables Beef& Bean Burrito with Enchilada Sauce 
Lemon & Herb Baked Cod Bagel Sandwich 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 
8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 

down ... " 45 Scrub 57 Eager 67 Sugar: suff. 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •.r------------------llllli!"------• 
16 NewsCenler 16 9:00P.M. 
22 22 Eyewilness News 
16 MASH 

22 Three's Company 16 TV's Blooper's & Practical jokes 10:00 P.M. 22 Scarecrow and Mrs. King 28 Hardcastle and McCormick 16 Tonight Show 23rd Anniversary 
Special 22 Kate and Allie 28 NFL Monday Nigh! Football: 10:30 P.M. Cincinnati & Pittsburgh 
34 National Nutrition Quiz 
22 Newhan 

46 Calvary Temple 11:00 P.M. 
'fM-H~ 

4609Grape Road t)O~'\ Mishawaka 
BE A GHOST THIS HALLOWEEN! 
Call about our Halloween special 277-7026 
Vegetarian Chow Mein Liver with Onions 
22 Cagney & Lacey 
34  Quesl  For  Killers:  "The  Las!  
Oulcasl''  
46  Lc:sc:a Alive  

16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyc:wilnc:ss News 
34 The Sea: "A Quest For Our 
Future" 
46 Church Growth lnlernatlonal 
16 22 
46 28 
David Letterman Show Remington Steele/CBS Late 
Movie Ught and Uvc:ly Nc:wswatch 28 

Prints and Slides from the same roll 
Kodak MP 111m .. Eastm.n KOdak's profenlonal motiOn picture (MP) fffm now adapted lor 11111 uee tn 35mm camerat by Seattle FllmWorkl. Enjoy micro-line gl'ltn and rich color utuiWitlon. Shoolln low or bnghl hghtlrom200ASA up to 1200 ASA. Get the opC•on of prints or tltdn, or boU'I. 
i~~o~~roRvc)i='FER·­
0 RUSH me two 20-eKPQture ro11t ol your leading KODAk MP lllm-Kodlk 52•7• (200ASAJ Enclosed •• $2.00. I'd like to be able to get color pnnta or slides (or both) !rom the same roll of this qUihty 111m. 
I N"ME 
ADDRESS 
CITY STATE ZIP 
Mail to: IMtlle fllmWDrtca 
~.0. Bo< C·3405G un seanle. WA 98124 
~-Selh' FtMi1lbb Llmll al2 ....~ 
1 

Monday, September 30, 1985-page 16
S~orts 
Boilermakers beat up on frustrated Irish, 35-17 

Symbolic ofhis frustration on Saturday against Purdue, Irish tailback Allen Pinkett (20) is taken 
Notre Dame cross country finishes third in National Catholic meet 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 

Astrong performance by the team as a whole gave the Notre Dame cross country team third place in the National Catholic cross country meet Friday afternoon. 
The meet was won by St. Thomas (Minn.), last year's NCAA Division III Champions. The final scores of the top four teams were St. Thomas 80, Villanova 87, Notre Dame 97 and Marquette 98. 
In the individual standings, Keith with a time of 24:29. Tyler ran a Hanson of Marquette placed first for strong race, though he wanted to the third year in a row. His time of place higher in the standings. 
23:02 smashed the course record of "I sprinted too fast at the start," 
23:27 set in 1979 by Mar!' Hunter of noted Tyler. "I felt I could have done Cleveland State. a lot better. I felt a little sluggish." 
Gerry O'Reiley of Villanova john Magill finished 11th for finished second, and his brother An­Notre Dame with a time of 24:40, thony placed fourth. Dave Kalunzy and Tom Warth placed 16th at of Marquete finished between the 24:56. O'Reiley's in third place, and jeff "I felt okay for the first three Hyman ofSt. Thomas was fifth. 
Jim Tyler was the first Irish runner see RUNNERS, page 14to cross the finish line, placing sixth 

Everett has great day to whip Notre Dame 
By LARRY BURKE 
Assistant Sports Editor 
WEST LAFAYETfE, Ind. -This time there were no surprises, no last-minute starter at quarterback, and most of all, no excuses. There was just Jim Everett's arm combined with a Purdue defense that was made to look a lot better than it really is. 
What it all added up to was a 35­17 loss for Notre Dame and a very real indication that the Irish are in real trouble. 
No this wasn't 1984 and it wasn't the Hoosier Dome, although there were some similarities, most of which centered around the quality, or lack thereof, of Notre Dame's play. There also were some dif­ferences -this time the Irish knew what was coming and they knew who Jim Everett was, but the results indicated that there was little they could do about stopping him, or about moving the ball with any con­sistency, for that matter. 
"I've got to give Everett a lot of credit," said Irish coach Gerry Faust. "We tried everything against him ­blitzing, adjusting our defensive fronts, but he just picked us apart. There's no doubt he's an excellent quarterback, one of the better quar­terbacks we've faced in all my years at Notre Dame. 
"The shotgun formation gives him a lot of time to get well-set back there in the pocket. Their offensive line did a good job picking up our blitzes and stunts, so they kept Everett in good shape. Even when we ftushed him out ofthe pocket, he 
· was able to run for yardage." 
Everett deserved a lot ofcredit for disecting the Notre Dame defense for 27 completions in 49 attempts that added up to 368 yards and three touchdowns. But the fact was that things could, and perhaps should, have been a lot worse. Several times Everett overthrew open receivers, and in the first quarter a wide-open Mark Jackson dropped a sure touch­down pass on a third-and-one play when the Notre Dame defense was fooled by a play-action fake. 
It was Notre Dame's offense, 
however, that was the biggest 
problem -in terms of on-the-field 
performance as well as play selec­
tion. The Boilers were keying on Al­
len Pinkett, and they shut him down 
to the tune of4 5 yards on 21 carries ­
his lowest rushing total since the 
1982 season finale when he was held 
to 4 3 yards. And as is so often the 
case with the Notre Dame offense, as 
Pinkett goes so go the Irish. 

Notre Dame's problems on the ground (56 net rushing yards in 4 1 attempts) were matched by its problems in the air. Quarterback Steve Beuerlein was off the mark all day, finishing with just seven completions in 25 attempts for 88 yards. Twice Beuerlein was replaced by spohomore backup Terry Andrysiak, but it was painfully ob­vious that the offense needed a lot more spark than either was able to provide. 
"I just wasn't doing the job," Beuerlein said of his fourth-quarter benching. "It was the worst game I've ever played in my life -one game I'm really ashamed of. I was missing open receivers, and once I missed the first few I started pressing a little. That's something a third-year quar­terback can't afford to do." 
Purdue free safety Ron Woodson, who picked off an Andrysiak pass late in the game and took it back for a touchdown to put the final nail in Notre Dame's coffin, was outspoken in his opinion of Beuerlein. 
"As I came onto the field (before the game), I saw that Beuerlein 
see IRISH, page 12 

No doubt about it, the Irish stunk 
WEST LAFAYETI'E, Ind. -It would be best to start by stating the obvious. Notre Dame's showing here Saturday against Purdue was worse than bad. To be blunt, the Irish stunk, and the players even said it themselves. 
Probably the worst game Notre Dame has played in Gerry Faust's five years as head coach, the 35-17loss to the Boilers begins to bring into question Faust's future in South Bend. Problems which have plagued Notre Dame teams throughout the lastfour seasons showed up again Saturday, their existence painfully obvious to anyone in attendance. 
The Irish offense again was predictable and uni­maginative. On 11 ofits first 13 first-down plays in the first half, Notre Dame chose to run. Of the first nine such situa­tions, Allen Pinkett was given the ball on seven occasions, including one stretch of six straight. The 11 first-down runs produced a grand total of 21 yards, an average of 1.9. 
"We felt we could run the ball on them in the first half," said Faust. 
Evidently not. 

Notre Dame lacked organization on its sideline, leaving 
the Irish with a slew ofmental mistakes to their credit. The 
key error Saturday was a 15-yard penalty late in the second 
quarter for "illegal participation." After stopping Purdue 
on third down to leave the Boilers with fourth-and-eight, 
officials ruled the Irish had 12 men on the field for the play. 
Notre Dame coaches had sent a sixth defensive back into the game, but somehow the change did not become evi­dent to those playing. The result on the field was a con­tinuation of Purdue's drive and a Boilermaker touchdown which gave the hometowners a 14-0 advantage. The result 
in the stands was amusement on the part of fans at Notre Dame's lack oforganization. 
A Purdue student trainer stationed on the Notre Dame sideline later described the situation there as chaos in com­parision to that ofother visiting schools. 
The list ofother such mental errors could go on and on. 

Jeff Blumb 
Sports Editor 
At one point the Irish hurry out onto the field to punt, hoping to catcb Purdue unready to field the kick. But in­stead ofgetting the punt off quickly, Notre Dame is forced to wait for one ofthe punting team's integral players to run out onto the field, his arrival the last ofall on both sides of the ball. 
And third, the Irish lacked intensity in their play. After being criticized for the same after the Michigan game, Notre Dame showed a little more emotion last week against Michigan State and the result was a much more favorable one. Saturday, however, was a repeat of two weeks ago as the Irish again showed a deficiency in the emotion department. 
"We weren't as pumped up as we were for Michigan State," said quarterback Steve Beuerlein. "We weren't fiat, but the intensity wasn't the same as last week." 
No? 

There is but one way to describe the feeling oflrish fans following the recurrence ofthese mistakes. • 
Frustration. 
And more frustration. 
Pinkett acknowledged this afterward, saying, "It hurts. I know as a fan it's frustrating, but it's even worse as a player, and especially as a senior. Still, I'm not ready to give up on any of the goals I set for this year, and one of them was getting to a major bowl." 
The players you feel sorry for are the ones who really care, like Pinkett, who came off the field in tears following an afternoon ofutter frustration. Unfortunately, there are a limited number ofsuch players. 
Faust, looking somewhat drained at his post-game press conference, reaffirmed his beliefthat things will get better for Notre Dame in the coming weeks. "I told the players that I still believe in them and in this coaching staff," he said. "We've got a lot of games left. I think things will be fine." 
Most Notre Dame fans would be hard pressed to believe the words of Faust. The chances that things will, in fact, be fine are dwindling with each passing week. 
Think about the captain of the Titanic. As his ship was sinking, do you think he expressed that belief? likely not, instead probably saying the ship soon would be righted and on its way again. It took 60 years to locate the Titanic. Hopefully, it doesn't take that long to find the Notre Dame program. 
Things will not get any better next week when the Irish must travel to Air Force. The Falcons have beaten Notre Dame each of the past three seasons, and there isn't much chance the oddsmakers will be favoring the Irish this year. 
"We've been through this before," Beuerlein said. "We've got to come back. We didn't represent ourselves or the University well on the field. People are just waiting for us to fold now." 
A national television audience will be tuned to ABC for the Air Force game; a majority ofwhich will be hoping for Notre Dame to roll over and die. Still, the Irish saw a similar situation last year after losing to South Carolina to go to 3-4. LSU was the foe the following week, and ABC was there with its cameras in anticipation ofthe fall ofNotre Dame. 
As Notre Dame fans know, though,, the Irish" fooled everyone, not only winning that game but the last three as well. Whether the same type ofthing can happen this year remains a big question mark. 
Through all this speculation, though, fans should not for­get that it still is their team. 


