Happenings -page 7 

VOL XX, NO. 35 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1985 

American warplanes intercept Egyptian jet; ship hijackers arrested 
Allsoclatcd Press "'111e United States wiU seek ex­tradition on grounds an American 
WASHINGTON -American war citizen was murdered," Speakes said. planes intercepted an Egyptian "... Our law permits it." aircraft carrying four Palestinian hija<.-kers, forcing the plane to land He said there was no agreement in Sicily where the gunmen have with the Italian government on the bt·tn handed over to Italian aut­extradition request. Italian aut­horities, White Houst• spokesman horities have said they want to Larry Speakes said late la~t night. prosecute, since the cruise liner was 
Spt"akes said that "in a matter of sailing under an Italian flag when the hours" the United States would hijackers took control. A govern­"pursue prompt extradition" so ment source reinforced that view prosecution could be undertaken last night. here for the murder of 69-year-old During the intercepted flight, ac­American tourist Leon Klinghoffer. cording to administration sources, 
"This operation was conducted the Tunisian government -ap­without firing a shot," Speakes told parently heeding a U.S. request to reporters. He said the four Pales­deny sanctuary to the hijackers ­tinians. who hijacked the Italian refused the Egyptian plane permis­luxury cruise ship Achille Lauro. sion to land. were in Italian custody "for ap­U.S. F14 jets, coming off the car­propriate legal proceedings." rier Saratoga, intercepted the 
Asked what the Palestinians said Egyptian 737 aircraft as it headed a~ they were taken from the plane. toward Tunisia from Cairo, Speakes Speakes said, "I judge they probably said. had an expletive or two." At Sicily's Sigonella airport near 
Speakes said President Reagan ap­Catania at 12:30 a.m. (7:30 p.m. proved the interception plan at mid­EDT),"The (Egyptian) aircraft day, giving general approval while landed with Italian consent and was visiting a Sara Lee baking plant in surrounded by American and Italian Chicago and giving final go ahead troops," he said. while returning to Washington "I think the president is extremely aboard Air Force One. pleased that this was a successful 
The intercept took place im­mission. It is one that was carefully mediately north of Egypt, above In­thought out, carefully planned, care­ternational waters of the fully coordinated. Mediterranean as the hijackers ". _. it should send a message and a thought they were flying to safety. strong one, that we will do what is 
"111e Palestinians, who surren­necessary to apprehend those who dered to Egyptian authorities on are involved in terrorism. We will do W<.·dnesday, had bargained for "safe it again, if the opportunity presents passage," and the airplane was itself." heading for Tunisia. Klinghoffer was in a wheelchair 
""111e president directed that U.S. when he was apparently attacked 
forces intercept the aircraft," and then thrown overboard as the Speakes said, as part of a U.S. policy hijackers pursued their demands for calling for "apprehension, prosecu­release of Palestinian terrorists held tion and punishment," of terrorists. in Israel. 

Anti-Apartheid rally occurs this afternoon 
ByMARKPANKOWSK.I Network in conjunction with Na­Copy /idtlor tional Anti-Apartheid Protest Day, is to "enlighten students to 
There's a big difference bet­different perspectives," said Det­ween the last student rally on the tling, who also will speak at the steps ofthe Administration Build­rally. ing and the Anti-Apartheid rally . A large turnout from students planned there this afternoon, ac­"will show there's student con­cording toJohn Dettling, student cern and student support for the government chairman of the revision of the University policy Committee for Responsible Uni­on investing in firms that operate versity Business Practices. in South Africa," said Margarita 
One rea'l<m is that University Rose, chairperson of the Anti­President Father Theodore Hes­Apartheid Network. burgh is scheduled to speak at today's rally. In addition to the rally, the 
~veral others besides Father Anti-Apartheid Network is spon­Hesburgh will speak at the 4 p.m. soring a program by Mary rally, including Student Body Frances Berry, a member of the President Bill Healy, Director of U.S. Civil Rights Commission and Notre Dame's South African one of the first people to be ar­Program Peter W alshe and rested outside of the South Motumbo Mpanya, a woman African embassy, said Rose. from Zaire, Africa, who is as­Berry will discuss "U.S. sociated with the Kellogg In­Response to Apartheid from the stitute. Campus to the Congress" at the 
The purpose of the rally, Memorial Library Auditorium at sponsored by the Anti-Apartheid 7 this evening. 
'The Obect"vcr/Chaltanya Pan.:hal
Umbrella for two 
Seniorjosepb Gostigian andfriend try to stay day's weatber was rightfor umbrellas, and there is dry on a rainy day underneath an umbrella. Yester-a good cbance Ibis weekend will be, too. 


Consequences of Dillon tailgater spark controversy at Notre Dame 
ByALEX PELTZER even if outside the immediate Goldrick said it was necessary to StaffReporter campus. maintain the University's reputation. "If real growth is to occur, there The event was not hall-sponsored, 
The recent administrative deci­will have to be a real lightening up of but the tailgaters still were regarded sion about the Ann Arbor tailgater in loco parentis," Healy said. "The by Goldrick as a recognizable group attended by members of Dillon Hall student viewpoint is that the ad­from the University. has sparked controversy on the ministration should not be our "We did not use any hall money," Notre Dame campus. parents. That is not their role." said John Husmann, Dillon Hall 
In a decision earlier this week, the John Goldrick, associate vice president. "But I can understand administration ruled that Dillon president for residence life, stressed how it came off appearing as a hall should be punished for inap­the importance of responsible be­event." 
propriate behavior at the tailgater havior on the part of students who Another point of controversy before the Michigan/Notre Dame represent the University. In the case surfaced by the Incident is whether football game on Sept. 14. of the Dillon incident, he said, a an entire hall can be punished for 
group of students who could be the actions ofa few of its residents. Much of the controversy centers identified as Notre Dame students Husmann said his fellow residents on the scope of the administration's "caused damage to its reputation." also are asking this question. 
authority. "It came off like the University "The people hurt most by the loss 
Student Body President Bill Healy tolerated the kind of behavior that of the SYR are the underclassmen questioned the administration's use some observers thought was in ex­and tbey were least represented at of in loco parentis, its right to set tremely poor taste," Goldrick said. guidelines on the students' behavior Although reluctant to take action, see DILLON, page 3 

Soviets debate ND on development 
ByROBERT RAPHAEL 
News Staff 
The responsibility of the United States and tbe Soviet Union in en­couraging economic and political stability in Third World countries was debated by students from Notre Dame and the Soviet Union last night. 
The debaters from Notre Dame, E. Michael Gray and Maureen Murphy, supported the position the U.S. Cat­holic bishops took in their pastoral letter on the economy. Gray and Murphy also proposed the forma­tion ofa ur?iversal credit union to as­sist third world countries. 
The Russian debaters, Yelenda Krabchenko and Vladmir Meshcheryakov, ·affirmed that developing countries must be free to choose their own system of government. They also stated the Soviet Union does not benefit from the countries it aids. 
The tour of the Soviet debaters was made possible by cooperation between the Student Council of the Soviet Union and the Speech Coun­cil of America. Mike Hazen, a representative of the Speech Coun­cil, gave the introduction to the debate. 
"We hope this debate provides an opportunity for the studentsofthese countries to come to a mutual un­derstanding of their values," Hazel said. 
Meshcheryakov, a graduate stu­dent at the Moscow Institute, defended his country. 
"The United States is responsible for the current situation. The roots of our moral obligations differ. Rus­sia has never had slave labor or colonies," he said. 
"The countries we aid are not sub­sidaries of the Soviet Union. There is no flow of financial resources Into the Soviet Union from developing countries," Mescheryakov added. 
Gray, a junior international rela­tions and Japanese studies major, who studied and coached debate at Sophia University in Tokyo last year, 
provided a view of the Notre Dame position. 
" The status quo is not solving the problem in the Third World. Soviet action there is unproductive and destabilizing," Gray said . 
Gray described the framework for a proposed international bank which would serve developing countries in time of crisis, benefit the lower half of their population and insure a more stable flow of financial resources to the Third World. 
" Our position appeals to the hig­hest moral imperative. All nations profit," Gray said. 
Krabchenko, a student at the Mos­cow State University, presented an argument for the Soviet Union. 
"The United States and the Soviet Union don't have the right to Impose anything on developing countries. They must be seen as sovereign states with the right to choose their 



~ --------~---------­
The Observer Friday, October 11, 1985-page 2 
:[­

In Brief 
Yul Brynner, the king in a record 4,625 perfor­mances in the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical "The King and 1," died yesterday after a two-year battle with lung cancer. He was 65. "He had so many facets as an actor. And ofcourse, he grew in the part of the king. He became the king," said Mary Martin, who recom­mended Brynner to Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammersteinfor the job as the imperious ruler ofSiam. -AP 
Orson Welles,70, died yesterday at his home, aut­horities said. He created the film classic "Citizen Kane" and a radio tale about a Martian invasion that terrified millions oflisteners. "The cause ofdeath appears to be natural in origin," said Donald Messerle, assistant chiefofcoroner's investigations. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Shelterfor the Homelesswill be holding 
training sessions for those wishing to volunteer. The sessions will be Sunday and Monday night at 7 in the Fatima Retreat Center. Those interested must attend either of the sessions to sufficiently prepare for the volunteer work. Any questions, contact John at 283-151 ~-­
The Obseroer 
Oktoberfestcelebrationfor the Senior Cla'iS will be tonight at the Alumni-Senior Club from 6 to 2. A S3 cover will be charged. Authentic food, drink and music, and a free glass mug will be available. Faculty members are welcome. -The Obseroer 
The SouthBend Police Departmentwill 
conduct an unclaimed bicycle and property auction at 8:30 a.m. tomorrow at the rear ofthe police station, located at 701 W. Sample St. Many items will be sold, including bicycles, mopeds, tools, televi­sions, jewelry, lawnmowers, clothes and other miscellaneous goods. Proceeds will be forwarded to the proper accounts of the city of South Bend. -The Obseroer 
The NAACP at Notre Dame is seeking additional members for its newly-founded chapter. Anyone interested can pick up an application at the Black Cultural Arts Center in LaFortune Stu­dent Center. Completed applications should be returned to the office, care ofBeverly Bean. Any current member planning to run for office who has not indicated the nature of his candidacy to the nominating committee must leave his name at the BCAC office. -The Obseroer 
Yakov Smirnoff, well-known Soviet comedian, will be appearing at Stepan Center tonight at 8. The performance will be in a coffeehouse-style atmosphere: Tickets are on sale at Rock duLac, the SAB record store in LaFortune, for S3 each.-The Obseroer 
The Saint Mary's Peacemakers will meet 
today at 4 p.m. in Room 11 Holy Cross Hall. The meeting will cover the status oflocal Pledge ofResistance activities, and plans for South African Awareness Week at the College Nov. 14 to 21.-The Obseroer 

Weather 
Rain, rain, go away and stop 
ruining weekend plans. Partly cloudy and mild today. High around 70. Partly cloudy and warm tonight with a low around 60. Partly sunny and warm tomorrow with a 30 percent chance of showers. High around 75. -AP 


USA Today provides color in black and white world 
vNOffiC~L 
RACCOON ENTRANCE£~ 
Test yourlcnowlege ofThe Honeymooners. 
\f ~0-can become an Honorary Raccoon. 
Woo! Woo! 

\..CJimJDUne the test by answering the 5 questions below 
~~--~ BRING YOUR TEST WITH YOU ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB on Sat. Oct. 12, 8:3.........
... 
You will win a Honeymooners Poster. (First 100 people with correct answers win poster) GOOD LUCK AND WOO! WOO! 
(1) First name oftlae aafeat bua driPer In NY. (lalnt: 118 notEd. Trixie. orAllee) 
(2) Tlae Raccoon Greeting (lalnt: 118 not Waa Waa) 
(3) He work• In tlae sewer. (lalnt:lt. notRalpla. Trixie orAllee) • 
(4) For30 year• tlaeae episodes tlaat we are alaowfng on October 12 were­(lalnt: notfound) 
(5) Tlae beat-loPed alaow on TV. (lalnt: NotMlflml VIce. I LoPe Lucy. orDynaaty) Remember: Bringyour completed test with you to Alumni-Senior on Sat. Oct. 12, when you come to watch Ralph & Alice & Ed & Trix,ie in the LOST but 
NOT FORG01TEN: The Honeymooners· The Lost Episodes. 
The Observer-
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( SlO per se· mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. 
Bnx Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 

The Observer is a member of The 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Production Consultant....................Steve Design Edltor...........................Alex Peltzer Design Assistant............... Melissa Warnke Typesetters ........................ Mark B. Johnson 
Becky Gunderman Typist........................... Mary Kate D'Amore News Editor .............................Jane Kravcik Copy Editor...................Cindy Rauckhorst Sports Copy Editor................. Marty Burns 5/otman........................................... Phil Wolf VIewpoint Copy Editor ....... Aimee Storin Viewpoint Layout............ Elizabeth Vogel Features Copy Editor...............sam Moore Features Layout............... Marie I Labrador ND Day Editor ....................... Lynne Strand SMC Day Editor................. Mary Jean Sully AdDesig" .......................Jeanie Grammens 
Michelle Martin Jesse Pesta TomBiafore Photographer...............Chaitanya Panchal 
What is black and white and blue and green and royal and yellow and read all over? 
Well, for those of you inside and outside the United States who are not aware of the flashy USA Today, you have seen and will be seeing its impact. 
When USA Today appeared more than three years ago it was novel in many ways. It was going to be a national general circulation paper. More importantly, it was going to be colorful and graphic. 
The newspaper gained immediate appeal because it was colorful and did not take all day to read. The stories were interesting and well-written, but brief. 
One complaint the paper has received from the start is that there is nothing to it. All the stories can be read within two minutes. Ifyou want to know anything more than what happened where and to whom, forget it. You would have to spend another quarter (or now two) on another paper. 
USA Today emphasizes the United States. There could be war in other parts of the world and we would hear about the North Carolina man who grew the largest tomato in our country. 
The local news in USA Today is minimal. The con­straints of publishing a na­tional newspaper are great. People in Cincinnati and South Bend do not care about the local news in Charlotte, N.C. But someone from Charlotte who is away from his beloved city would like to see some information from home. 
The Across the USA pages provide a glimpse ofall parts M~l-. WEMUA...T of the country but with a narrow scope. The Across the USA in Sports page that lists short stories(are there anything butshortstories in the paper?) has very little variety this time ofyear. On Monday you get the results ofthe top high school football teams, on Tuesday you get highlights from the high school games of the past weekend. On Thursday you get the listing of the AP top 10 high school teams and then Friday you get that weekend's schedule ofhigh school football games. For those ofus not really thrilled by high school foot­ball, that information leaves a little to be desired. The paper could at least throw in some high school cross­country results. A final complaint is about the use ofword "USA." New rules ofgrammar seem to be invented by the use ofUSA as every part of speech. USAers USAing USAish things are sentences praised by the editors. There also are praises for this national newspaper. While the brevity ofthe articles often leads to super· 

John Mennell 
Production Manager 

ficiality, the articles are easy to read. USA Today will tell you the basics ofwhat happened in a hurry. Ifyou don't really care about why something happened or what the consequences might be, USA Today tells you all you need to know. 
The newspaper'~apackaging is much like the half-hour local news programs that are so popular today. You can have a wide variety oftopics in a short time with a lot of color and flash. 
It is the color and flash of USA Today that is the best and most influential aspect of the newspaper. Since its inception, the days of the black and white newspaper have been numbered, aod small numbers they are. 
Of the daily papers that arrive regularly on the doorsteps across campus, the use ofcolor is commom. While the Wall Street jour­nal and New York Times remain in the conservative black and white format, USA Today, The Chicago Tribune, The Chicago Sun­Times and The South Bend Tribune use color ex­tensively. 
The use of graphics also 
has become more prevalent. Time magazine always had used colorful graphics to fur­ther explain news events. USA Today uses graphs con­sistently to further illustrate its pages. 
USA Today's impact has been great. News being packaged conveniently and attractively is more enter­taining and enjoyable. Although someone who reads only USA Today may not have extensive information on the impact ofmany international events, the newspaper they have chosen has made a statement to newspapers everywhere. I 
Printing in color is expensive but becoming less so to the extent that some college newspapers have begun to use an occasional color picture or some color graphics. 
Local newspapers across the United States have combined their regular news content with some of the packaging and color found in USA Today. The result is better newspapers. The USA should thank USA Today. 

-------------------------------~-----------------­
The Observer 
Funds to be collected to help Kevin Hurley 
By ROB PRICE 
News Staff 
Acollection will be taken at all dorm Masses this weekend to benefit the family of Kevin Hur­ley, the Howard Hall freshman who was injured in a hit-and-run accident on U.S. 31 on Sept. 7. 
Hurley was transported to a hospital near his home in Massac­husetts by air ambulance earlier this week. 
Hurley, suffering from mul­tiple head and abdominal in· juries, still is unconscious. 
Student Body President Bill Healy originally suggested the collection idea. He contacted Father Andre Leveille, director of campus ministry, and asked that the collection be taken. 
Father Leveille then wrote a letter to the hall rectors asking them to take up the collection this weekend. 

"Notre Dame students have been very generous in the past, and I hope their generosity con· tinues," Father Leveille said, ad· ding that he is looking forward to the collection optimistically. 
He said that earlier efforts to aid Mexican earthquake victims resulted in a Sl 500 collection from Notre Dame students. 
A fundraiser dance had been suggested by Elisa Cullina, a member of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance, who proposed giving the proceeds to the Hurley family to add to the collection. 
Cullina decided to postpone the dance, however, after dis­cussing the idea with Healy. 
The money collected this weekend will go to a trust fund set up by the Hurley family to help pay medical expenses. 
/).~ 

~uninr 'arents• lllttktnll 
~·v 
.Applications for lll~Hllll Ql~airper.son art now auailablt in ~t ~bent .Actiuitit.s (!!)ffice l.st floor &~ortunt 


'*'*''* 
lltabltnt is m~ursbag. ®ct. 17. 1985. 

'*'*'*' 


---------~----~-~----­
Friday, October 11, 1985 -page 3 
Alumni come back for conference 
ByDAVIDT.LEE 
News Staff 
Despite the lack ofa football game this weekend, many Notre Dame alumni again will be invading the campus. 
The group will participate in the Student Leadership Weekend, a con· ference including present student leaders and alumni who were for­merly involved in student govern­ment. 
The improvement ofboth student government and student life In general will be discussed at the con­ference. 
Five particular points will be con· sidered: 
•components 
of good student government, 

•continuity ofgovernment, 

•student 
response to elected leaders, 

•student 
responsibility, and 

•support 
offriends and alumni. 




The chairman of the conference, Student Body Vice-President Duane Lawrence, received the Idea from former 1975·76 Student Body Presi· 


Debate 
continued/rom page 1 
own economic and political sys­tems," he said. 
Murphy, a junior economics and computer applications major, ex­panded on Gray's statements on the creation of an independent interna· tiona! banking system. 
"Economic goods should be used for economic justice,"she said, af­

--FreeBaireuts-­
our styled haircuts are only $6°0 and now we'll give you a card that entitles you to every 5th haircut free 
Call or walk on over­
Open6days Evenings until 7:30 
dent Ed Burn, and Bill McLean, former 1972·75 OBUD director. 
Lawrence said the role ofstudent government may be underestimated by the administration, who he said operates In loco parentis. 
"Maybe our role is a little more imponant than the administration be-lieves," he said, adding the problem is not a new one. 
Other campus leaders who will at· tend, in addition to Lawrence and Student Body President Bill Healy, include Observer Editor-In-Chief Sarah Hamilton, Hall Presidents' Council Chairman Kevin Howard and Ombudsman Director David Stephenitch. 
Also attending will be Judicial Coordinator Karen Ingwersen and Student Activities Board Director Lee Broussard. 
Several administration officials In· eluding Associate Provost Father Ed· .ward Malloy and Vice-President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson will participate in the conference. 
Because this Is the first con· ference of its kind, organizers said 
firming the position in the U.S. Bis­hops' Pastoral Letter on the Economy. 
"Wealthy nations should shift aid from military aid to economic aid. Universal charity must prevail wit· hout one side making progress. Upon all this depends the civiliza­tion ofthe world," Murphy said. 
Gray and Murphy were chal­lenged on the feasibility of their proposal during the audience ques­tion period. The Soviet debaters 

----------------------,
The Varsity Shop Edison Rd. at St Rd 23 277-0057 


CONTACT LENS 



SALE 

DAILY WEAR SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
Clear Daily Wear Spherical Contact Lenses from Bausch & Lomb. 
EXTENDED WEAR CONTACT LENSES 
Softmate 30-day extended wear spherical contact lenses 
$39.98* 
$39.98* 
SOFT TINTED 
;t~a~!~n~!en~~h~:~n~ $79 
correct your vision, they enhance the color 
.98* of your eyes. Available in permanently tinted, natural colors of green, aqua, blue or brown. 
'Price does notlnlude an eye examination which Is required at the time of purchase. Visa-MasterCard-Medicaid-Insurance Programs Welcome Open 6 Days A Week With Evening Hours 
SOUTH BEND: 1111 E IRELAND RD...291·4000 MISHAWAKA: 506. W McKINLEY... 258·5000 
Also Offices in Indianapolis, Kokomo, Muncie, Anderson, Terre Haute, Richmond, Franklin, New Castle, Lafayette, Bloomington, Columbus, Marion, Shelbyville 
they were unsure what the response would be from alumni. Ap­proximately 125 former students were invited to attend and were sent questionnaires asking their opinions on the student relationship with the administration. 
More than I00 responses were received, and approximately 30 alumni have agreed to attend the conference. 
The conference begins this evening with an informal discussion at the concourse of the Administra· lion Building. A $35 registration fee will be charged. 
One conference discussion will feature a "roundtable" talk between administration officials, student leaders and guests. 
Lawrence said he hopes future student body administrations will continue to hold leadership con­ferences. 
It is important to learn "how to develop better structures so as to promote more real responsibility for students,"Lawrence said. 
were asked to explain Soviet in­volvement in Poland and the use of forced labor In Siberia. 
Alexi Kruglov, a member of the Presidium on Youth Organizations, said,"There is a rising feeling of readiness to reach a mutual under­standing in our countries. " 
The Soviet team previously had competed at state schools in Califor­nia and Arizona. They will visit Nonhwestern, Wake Forest, VII· lanova and the Universtly of North Carolina before returning home. 
Dillon 
continuedfrom page 1 
the tailgater," said Husmann. 

"People are trying to figure out how an entire dorm can be punished while less than half were respon­sible," he said. 
Father joseph Carey, Dillon Hall rector, said It was Impossible to find out exactly who was responsible. He also said the few who participated were representing the dorm as a whole. 
Goldrick said he hoped Husmann would direct the work to those he knew to be responsible. Ifthe under­classmen were affected Goldrick said the upperclassmen should make it up to them. 
Husmann said the tailgater got loud and offensive to some people and then was reponed to the ad­ministration. As a result, Husmann, Goldrick, Father Carey, and Ann Firth, director of resident life, agreed Dillon should be punished by forfeiting an SYR and doing com­munity service work. 
"The decision was a result ofcon­sultations, It was not a unilateral decision," said Goldrick. 
Husmann said the hall has chosen to do work for the Women's Care Center constructing new counsel­ing space. 
Healy said that contrary to some opinions, the Student Senate is addressing this issue. He said the Dil· Ion Incident was brought up at the last senate meeting. 
Some questions about the reasons for the administration's actions have been raised by members of the Notre Dame community. 
Goldrick said he was not trying to keep secrets but rather protect the individuals involved. He said the problem was not related to the al­cohol policy or the tailgater policy. 
"The problem was public be· havior," he said. "That's the most I can say without pointing fingers at cenain Individuals." 
Carey added that a number of people had complained about the behavior of the students Involved. 
"We actually had students as weU as alumni who were upset with the actions ofthe students," Carey said. 
HE MAKES EVIL AN EVENT 
DINO DE LAURENTIIS PRESENTS STEPHEN KING'S SILVEf'V3UI..LET ·GARY BUSEY· EVERETT McGILL COREY HAIM MUSIC BY JAY CHATTAWAY · BASED ON THE NOVELETTE "CYCLE OF THE WEREWOLF" BY STEPHEN KING SCREENPLAY BY STEPHEN KING PRODUCED BY MARTHA SCHUMACHER .lliiiliii<~ 
R ~;...:.. DIRECTED BY DANIEL ATTIAS -~-P~.R_6JVI9!;JN_T._~I.CJ\-!.~ ·-~-• 
Starts Friday, October 11 at a theater near you. 

The Obser:ver Friday, October 11, 1985-page 4 
Group for alcoholics returns after 9 years 
BySANTIAGO O'DONNELL 
News Staff 
An open Alcoholics Anonymous meeting returned to the campus last Monday in Dillon Hall, after a nine-year absence from Notre Dame. 
The meeting was attended by approximately 25 people. 
"The OAA meetings are 'open' to people from outside the group. The main goals are educa­tion and awareness," said Peggy Cronin, drug and alcohol coun· selor from Notre Dame's Coun­seling and Psychological Services. 
"Regular Alcoholics Anonymous meetings are dif· ferent because they are 'closed' and the main purpose is group support," she said. 
During the session, a man who called himself 'Terry' told his story ofconflict with alcoholism, and answered questions from ot­hers at the meeting. 
Dillon Hall Resident Assistant Andre Hutchinson said he was impressed with the meeting. 
"It gave me a better perspective of how to deal with alcoholism problems that might arise in the dorm," he said. 
Cronin said she hopes the meetings will continue to attract resident assistants, hall rectors, 

faculty and stalf, and members of the student body. Future meetings will be held monthly. 
She also said she hopes the open meetings eventually will lead to the formation of a local chapter ofthe AA. 
"When I started the meetings in 1975, drinking problems on campus were still a taboo, so par­ticipants were mainly from South Bend. This year we did not publicize outside Notre Dame­Saint Mary's," said Cronin. 
The November OAA meeting will be held in a women's dor­mitory, where a woman will dis­cuss the specific problems women have with alcohol. 
Counseling and Psychological Services also offers student sup­port groups for family and friends ofalcoholics. 
These groups meet Monday nights in the third floor of the Notre Dame infirmary and are open to students on both campuses. 
The service also coordinates support groups with emphasis on eating problems, graduate stu­dents, grief and loss, self-esteem, religious leaders, and gay and les­bian students. 
Students interested should contact Alicia Finn, staff psyc­hologist at the infirmary. 

Black alumni return to consider problems of ND minority students 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
CopyEditor 

Why aren't more black students coming to Notre Dame, and once black students do come to Notre Dame and graduate, why aren't they more involved in the Alumni As· sociation? 
The Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion wants the answers to those questions, and has paid the expenses of 2"1 black alumni to return to the University to get them, according to Charles LennonJr., executive direc­tor ofthe Alumni Association. 
The black alumni, who come from different specialty fields, age groups and regional areas, have returned to meet with top University officials and student leaders for the Black Alumni Mini-Senate, said Lennon. 
The purpose of the senate, which began with a speech by University President Father Theodore Hes­burgh yesterday and will adjourn after a Mass tomorrow, "is to get more black alumni involved with their University," according to Maria Miceli, an alumni representative with the Alumni Association. 
"Traditionally, we have not reached the black alumni as we've wanted to," Miceli said. 
The alumni have not returned "just to absorb" speeches by top University officials, Miceli said. They also will discuss issues ranging from the presence of minorities at Notre Dame to financial aid with students as well as administrators. 
"(The meeting) will be like a think tank," said Lennon. "It will be an exchange of ideas, a give and take." 
"(The Alumni Association) wants to ask them why aren't they par­ticipating? Why aren't we attracting more black students?" Miceli said. 
"We want their input," Lennon said. "We will give a status rep<)rt and we'll say, 'Here's where we are and here's where we'd like to be."' 
The alumni are scheduled to hear speeches from several University of­ficials, including Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson, Assistant Provost SisterJohn Miriam Jones, Dean of Freshman Year of Studies Emil Hofman and Vice Presi­dent of University Relations William Sexton. 
They also will meet with black student leaders to get a student perspective on problems faced by black students at Notre Dame, Miceli said. 
Miceli said she believes the ad· ministration will listen to the alumni's suggestions and take them into consideration. 
"Some of the most important people at the University are par­ticipating," Miceli said. "That ind­icates they're interested in it." 
If the mini-senate helps improve relations with the black alumni, that in turn will lead to an increase in black student enrollment, saiq Len­non. 
"If black alumni have a positive feeling about the University and the Alumni Association, that will have a positive influence on the black population and increase the number ofblacks at Notre Dame," he said. 
Miceli agreed with Lennon. 
''We need black alumni to be a positive force for the black com· munity to think Notre Dame is a good place to come," she said. 
"What we hope will come out of the meeting is an increase in black alumni involvement · as faculty, as donors, and as people to help us recruit more students," added Miceli. 
The mini-senate, which is not con­nected with the Student Leadership Weekend, is part of an ongoing program by the Alumni Association to increase involvement by all graduates of Notre Dame, said Miceli. 
It also is part of a larger plan, she said. 
"Part of the administration's plan is to bring in more minorities in a concerted effort of the entire Uni­versity," Miceli said. 
"We all believe it will improve Notre Dame and improving Notre Dame is what it's all about." 


University of Notre Dame 
Foreign Study Programs 
Attention: ALL STUDENTS GOING TO MEXICO and JERUSALEM SPRING 1986 



APPLICATIONS ARE DUE: 

420 ADMINISTRATION DUILI)ING (FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAMS OFFICE) 
Notre Dame's Dry but..... We've Still got 

Friday, October 11 Tickets on sale at 8:00pm LaFortune Record Store Stepan Center Price: $3.00 
A STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 

<
PRODUCTION 
__ ..........-,... 




on 

From the Campus
''U.S. Response to Apartheid: 
to the Congress 
TONIGHT: at 7:00 in the Library Auditorium 
~i~~~_()__i_ll__t_________________Fr-id-~,_o_cto-be-r1-1,_19-85
__p_age-5 
Leaders meet to offer students a chance to grow 
A lot of talking goes on here at Notre Dame. In just about every dialogue undertaken, reference is almost unfailingly made to "the Notre Dame community." People toss this phrase off; it reads better and sounds 
decidedly  more  sophisticated  than  "the  
whole  NO gang"  or  "that bunch of  Notre  
Dame people."  

Andy Barlow 
in transit 

Users of the phrase usually seek to describe the population of humans who work, study or play in the shadow of the Dome. What speakers so often forget is the true meaning of the word community and its importance in the lives of all those associated with the Uni­versity. 
The roots ofthe word community associate it with other words that are standard in the Notre Dame experience. "Common" is one, in the sense that Notre Dame students have a lot in common. The list of similarities is one we have heard since our first days here. 
"In high school, the average Notre Dame student typically scored highJy on his/her SAT's, was very active in extracurricular ac­tivities, was a fine athlete ...." 
Here at Notre Dame, the majority of stu­dents share the common goal of personal excellence and the accompanying burden of intense time demands due to study, athletics or hall involvement, to name a few. 
Another root of "community" is a word meaning "companionship." For a community to thrive and survive, it is necessary for its members to spend time together, striving for common goals. Friendships develop through the sharing of common experiences and traumas, successes and failures. 
Synonymous with companionship is "fraternity." There are no fraternities of the traditional definition on this campus, but the building of the fraternal spirit, ideally, is ful­filled by the University's policy of residen­tiality. 
"Communication" is also a part of community. People must work together to define common goals. Discussion, delibera­tion and even argument are necessary for community members to determine common goals. Often these lines ofcommunication are blocked by prejudice or ignorance, but these barriers must be dissolved to ensure the life of the community. 
These aspects of community: common goals, communication and companionship (fraternity) have not been boldly evident lately here at Notre Dame. The purpose of residentiality has become a bit obscured and complaints of a lack of communication bet­ween students and the administration are as widespread as ever. This lack of communica­tion has contributed to strife on campus and a degradation of the Notre Dame community spirit. 
Action must be taken in these areas. Too long have people waited for someone else to take the initiative to seek the resolution of these problems. Until now. 
This weekend, on the Notre Dame campus, forums will be conducted addressing the problems facing Notre Dame's status as a com­munity. Under the sponsorship ofthe student government, a body so often maligned for its contribution to the problems here at Notre Dame, alumni of Notre Dame will be meeting with concerned students to discuss residen­
tiality and the avenues of student input into 
the Administration's decision-making 
process. 
It's about time. Notre Dame is home to over 
8,000 students and is perceived from afar as a 
unified and progressive intellectual com· 
munity. It is obvious to all with the intimate 
student perspective things are far from per­
fect. Now students are beinggiven a chance to 
express their opinions, to re-establish the 
communication that is so vital to the survival 
ofthis community. 
Tomorrow at 3:00 in the auditorium at the Center for Continuing Education, a general forum addressing residentiality, student­Administration communication, and other vi­tal topics will be held. If you are concerned about this community and would like to see improvements made, be there. 
Changes may not immediately occur, but the communication that will strengthen our community must start somewhere. Why not let it start with you? 
AndyBarlow ts a sophomore in the College ofArts and Letters and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
P.O. BoxQ 
Hesburgh will not hear infantile government 
Dear Editor: 
You re(·ently received a truly admirable let· ter from three Alumni residents attacking the student government for continually dealing with trivial issues. Blowing open The Obser­ver's books is an OK idea, but they should try to do something worthy. Try to establish The Observer as a financially and contextually free publication. Hundreds ofother schools in this country have free newspapers, so I do not see why we cannot. 
The important point raised by their letter, however, is the obvious lack of real social event.~. Sorry, I just fell off my chair laughing about the overall mockery ofAn Tostal week. This is our alleged "spring weekend" (ha, ha). Wow! I cannot believe how much fun it is. Do you know that on the Saturday night of An Tostal week, there is an event known as "Recess I 0 I ". You know, they sponsor this big t.•vent with cake, ice cream and lots offun little games like "Duck, Duck, Goose," "Dodge Ball" and all sorts ofother fun goodies that are too infantile to appear even on "Sesame Street." We (·annot expect the administration to treat us like adults, when our student government is sponsoring such Wide World of Sports worthies like "tag" and "hide & seek." Nice display of intelligence, pal. 
An event like Marquette's block party would be a good idea. The best way to do it would be to ditch this Mickey Mouse opera­tion and hold it on a farm somewhere in Mic­higan. However, if you really want to, go play games at Recess I 0 I. Go ahead. Play tag. Only do not expect Father Hesburgh to listen to you when "you're it." 
CbrlsLusi Notre Dame student 
Walkway must be built to keep students safe 
Dear Editor: 

I realize the thought is untimely regarding 
the circumstances giving rise to the injury of 
Notre Dame freshman Kevin Hurley. Irregard­
less, it seems that there should be a joint effort 
by Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and the State of 
Indiana to enter into a project to construct an 
elevated walkway across Route 31-33 ena­
bling Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to 
cross this roadway with minimum risk to their 
personal safety. 

The student pedestrian traffic across this 
busy roadway at all times of the day and 
evening merits the administration's leader­
ship in taking practical and realistic safety 
measures beginning with construction of an 
elevated walkway. 

The design for an inclined walkway that is 
elevated over a highway can be seen in many 
forms throughout the country. Completion of 
such a project would create a reasonable al­
ternative to the multiple risks that presently 
exist. To do nothing to improve this dan­gerous condition is negligence for both col­leges and the responsible public authorities who are charged with maintenance of the roadway. Hopefully, this thought has rein­forced the concern for immediate action. lives are at stake at this junction 24 hours a day. 
Robert Casey Notre Dame MBA student 
The era of Gerry Faust not part of tradition 
DearEditor: 

I hear Head Coach Gerry Faust talk quite often of the great Notre Dame football tradi­tion when he is interviewed on television. He usually states how much he enjoys being part of that tradition. So when "Wake up the Echoes" was broadcast on ESPN last Wednes­day night, I took the opportunity to review that tradition. Tradition was Rockne, Leahy and Parseghian. Tradition was dominance and national titles. Tradition was great upsets against prohibitive favorites. Faust does not fit into this tradition. Rather, he has started a new tradition at the Air Force Academy, losing four straight to a team that had never beaten Notre Dame. Faust, please step aside now, and let the great tradition of Notre Dame football live again under the Golden Dome. 
Andy Walker Arlington, Va 

Garry Trudeau 
Hurley may be at home but he still needs help 
DearEditor: 
This letter is in response to the article "SMC 
plans Hurley aid" that appeared in The Obser­
ver on Oct. 7. 
After the Saint Mary's Board ofGovernance 
meeting, I was involved in several discussions 
with members of the Saint Mary's and Notre 
Dame student governments. We decided the 
timing did not seem quite right for a dance for 
Hurley's benefit; however, we also decided 
such an event would be better placed in the 
spring as a follow up to the present collection ·efforts. 
I would like to thank the various individuals 
and groups that have already voiced their sup­
port. I ask you to channel the energy you were 
willing to give and direct It toward assisting in. 
the present collection efforts. These efforts in­
clude the joining of collections taken at 
Masses, hall functions and other donations 
into one donation from the Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's community. 
Again, the dance was not cancelled, just re­
scheduled. After fall break, planning will 
resume. Anyone interested in helping can 
contact me and you will get put to work! 
And please remember: Kevin may have gone home, but he still needs our prayers and support. 
Thanks again. 
Eltsa Culltna McCandless Hall 

50Mt PRD6RAM!7 ARe 50 FT?JEN{}tY, 

THAT'5CAUW
YOU 'iii£, Mil<&, TH/3R& ARE 12 OIF­
l'tt TAl<£ CAR&
7Ht COMPI.!TlR HA5AMNI35/A. 17"3
ffl<tNT OE6I?fJ33 OF OPWlTIONAL­
"U5CR-70f13FANT." 

OfEvtRYTHIN6.
OKAY, BUT 
7Hf PR06RAMONI-Y

ALL A QUt5710N OFHOWMUCH OF
tA'3C BUil-TINTO "tVt." F3UT THE: 
GOHAVt50Mt.
JU5T7HI5 

Quote of the day
YOUR. 5!21<.s OF MEM{)Izy 'f(){) 5AC­
USC510K.. NOW

t M0/?13. "FRIENfJl.Y" THe PRD6RA/v1 
ONC&. 
COfRZANl? 
CL/(}( P05ITION !2

RIFIC& FOR. 5EF..VIC&. atO< POSI­
~ 'fiJU 5CLECT, THt L.e93 M&MOR.Y 
I<.JCKBACI<. 

TION ONt ANOA51<. IT 70 PRiNTOUT 
ANOT!?f

• IS LDTOVER fOR YOUR U5t. 
'tVUR Fl/,13.
JL\ 

"Power in defense of freedom is greater than 
powerinbebaKof~y 
and oppression. 
-Malcolm X 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
The Observer--­
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager. ... Dav1d Stephen1tch
P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ........ . ..... William J. Highducheck News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager ......... Jim Hagan 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager .... . ............ Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary·s Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager .. . . John A. Mennell 
adm1n1strai10n ot e1ther InStitution The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
tanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy 
ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. laches 
campus. through letters, IS encouraged. 
Copy Chief ..............................................Frank Lipo Founded November 3, 1966 

r 
Accent 
Friday, October 11, 1985 -page 6 
Pure grace of White's words is his testament 
Gipp's slaying of the 'big red' leaves coach with hope 
Rev. Robert 
Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
E 
B. White has died. He wrote • children's books like "Charlotte's Web" and "Stuart Little," and he was one ofthe all­

r 
time great wits and essayists ofThe New Yorker. His pieces were as perfect as a page out of"Walden," with shrewd observation turned into jewel-like prose you couldn't argue with. 
I've been reading E.B. White for 40 years. To tell the truth, he was so gifted I would be doing him an injustice ifI tried to tell you how good he is. There is so much more to him than meets the eye; and what meets the eye is exciting and bril­liant. I'm re-reading everything of White's I can get my hands on. It's the least I can do for a writer whose departure feels like a death in the family. 
E.B. White wasn't a newspaper man; he hated working for newspapers. However, he got his start as the editor ofthe college daily at Cornell. He was a good writer even then. He wouldn't lie to himself, and call it good writing. He had a New England vision, like Thoreau. He saw things New 
Editor's note: 

This is thefourth episode in The Observer's 
serial publication of the new Notre Dame 
football story, "The Gipper's Ghost," written by Notre Dame graduate Robert Quaken­bush. Last week's chapter told of bow the ghost of George Gipp, disguised as Notre Dame student Dutch Reagan, met his new roommate and signed up for the Sorin inter­ballfootball team. 
The big red 01ac 
I 
nterhall football at Notre Dame had a tradition ofits own. On most other college campuses, intramural teams played touch football. Not Notre Dame. They played real football. Tackle football. Interhall players wore pads, helmets, uniforms, mouthguards and game-faces. 
A number ofstudents firmly believed that Notre Dame's best interhall team could play competitively against many small college football teams. The entire student body, at least for the moment, was absolutely con­vinced they could beat the Notre Dame varsity. Easily. 
The Gipper's Gho~ 
Chapter F1ve ~ 
Interhall teams featured nicknames such as the Holy Cross Hogs, the Grace Tower Gorillas and the Stanford Studs. The "Notre Dame" ofNotre Dame -the team every interhall player dreamed ofbeating at least once during his lifetime -was Dillon Hall's "Big Red Machine." Dillon Hall was the ultimate "jock" dorm on campus; the unmis­takable aroma ofsweat socks penetrated every room and corridor ofthe hall. The perennial South Quad champions, Dillon Hall had lost only once in the past four years. The defeat had arrived in a championship game against the North Quad's superpower, Keenan Hall. 
This year's Dillon Hall squad was, as usual, the pre-season favorite to win it all. Accord­ing to the sports editor ofThe Observer, Dillon had recruited five high school All­Americans for its offensive line alone! 
Sarin Hall didn't have a prayer. 


Englandly, like Emily Dickinson. He was a New Yorker who became a naturalized Yankee. 
He made poetry out ofhis early life in Manhattan; then, replacing the taxi cabs on Fifth Avenue with chicken farming and planted fields, he made poetry out ofhis farm in Maine. His work combined style and grace with integrity and reflec­tion. He never had to inflate his emotions to illl the page with half­baked insights. 
None of the critiquing pretends to lay a glove on the essential E.B. White, or as his friends called him, Andy. He was a major talent in developing one ofthe slickest publications in the world. He was a writer whose journalism was so good, it turned into literature. 
Wednesday's Observer ran the syndicated cartoon with the drawing ofthe web, like Charlotte's web, with the epitaph, "So long. E.B. White." It was touchingly ap­propriate, and it claimed him as an elder statesman of journalism who achieved the status ofan American guru. The poetJohn Donne wrote: "No man is an island, entire ofitself; 
Gipp had been carrying his helmet when he passed the bleachers set up next to the field. He spotted Collins in the top row. 
With a wave ofhis helmet, Gipp called, "Hart! Thanks for coming!" 
"I promised I would. Do you really think our brave but tiny hall has a chance against these guys?" He pointed in the general direction ofthe red-shirted barbarians on the opposite sideline. "Dillon·has all-state players from Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas..." 
"Don't worry, Hart," said Gipp with a smile, "they don't have me!" Collins laughed with him. 
Meanwhile, in the football office on the first floor ofthe Athletic and Convocation Center-popularly known as the ACC -Joe Kelly was deep in thought. He had been studying the depth charts, searchingfor a magic combination that might yield a glim­mer ofhope against the powerful Michigan State Spartans. 
He didn't notice the priest who had en­tered his office. 
"Oh, Coach! Sorry. Didn't mean to disturb you. I was just nosing around a bit." 
Kelly looked up. "That's OK, Father. It's 
quite all right," he said. He had no reason to 
be suspicious. Who questioned the presence 
ofa priest anywhere at Notre Dame? 
"Ifyou don't mind me saying so, Coach, 
you look exhausted. Why don't you just relax 
for a little while? There's a football game 
starting up outside. Why don't you take an 
hour or so and watch the kids play? After all, 
Sunday is a day ofrest. And who knows, 
maybe you'll even discover the next George 
Gipp!" 

Kelly smiled. "You're probably right, 
Father. The fresh air might do me some good 
at that. Care to join me?" 

Kelly and the priest took a shortcut 
through the north dome ofthe ACC. They 
strolled over to the bleachers. The game had 
started. 

Kelly saw Collins, and climbed up to join 
him. 

"Looking for some new receivers?" Kelly 
asked. 

"Not really, Coach. I promised my 
roommate I'd watch him play today." 
every man is a piece ofthe con­tinent ..." Those who spend time contributing to a newspaper didn't have to ask for whom the bell tolled when Andy White died. Ifwe took our work seriously, it tolled for us. The world of journalism could ill afford to lose its distinguished senior citizen, though he had grown old. He was needed too much as a model. 
Now please bear with me as I shift gears. 
A year and a halfago, when the new alcohol policy was first an­nounced, some students appealed to Mike Royko, the Chicago colum­nist for help in getting the Notre Dame policy-makers laughed out of court. Royko only gave them the back ofhis hand. 
He wrote a column, as I remem­ber it, in which he expressed his enthusiasm for a strict alcohol policy imposed on students. He said he hated to see college students coming to bars to drink: they ruined it for everyone, because they didn't know how to drink with class. Mike Royko, dropping into the Billy Goat Tavern to clink glasses with the salty characters who hang around pubs, has his expectations ofwhat the clientele should be like. 
IfRoyko is choosy about whom he drinks with, I can imagine that 
E.B. White was choosy about whom he drank with. He andjames Thur­ber had the first section ofThe New Yorker, called "Talk of the Town," 
"I don't think I've met your roommate. Which one is he?" Suddenly, there was a roar from the Sarin Hall cheeringsection. "That one!" said Collins, jumping to his feet. 
On the field, Dutch Reagan had just ricoc­heted offtwo Dillon linebackers. He ac­celerated toward the end zone; ten yards ahead ofhis nearest pursuers. They were 20 yards behind when he nimbly crossed the goal line. 
For the next hour, Kelly and Collins witnessed the dismantlingofthe "Big Red Machine." The best interhall athletes played both ways, and Gipp, who had learned the game during an era ofsingle-platoon football, proved sensational. On offense, he led Sarin in rushing. receiving and scoring. On defense, he led in tackles, sacks and intercep­tions. He might have led in punting. too, but as it turned out, Sarin Hall never had occa­sion to punt. 
Kelly thought it was probably the most awesome display ofindividual football prowess at Notre Dame since, well, the days ofGeorge Gipp! 
At game's end, Collins and the men ofSarin Hall charged onto the field. They carried their new hero on their shoulders in a trium­phant, boisterous march to St. joseph's Lake, all the while chanting. "Lake! Lake!" In a time-honored ceremony, the celebrants christened their champion by hurling him off the pier into the chilly September waters. 
Meanwhile, back at the ACC, Kelly's mind raced with the possibilities. 
"He's quite a boy, isn't he, Coach?" 
It was the priest again. 
"He just might be the answer to a prayer, Father," said Kelly. 
Kelly was about to offer to take his new friend to dinner, when he realized he didn't even know his name. 
"Are you just visiting Notre Dame, Father...?" 
The priest understood. 
"Woulfe. FatherMichael B. Woulfe. Sort of. Actually, I'm on assignment from the Vatican." "The Vatican! It must be an important assignment." 
for many years; and they kept the short pieces ofthe section incisive and elegant. Imagine offering E.B. White a sample ofyour work. After working for a while in the local vineyard, it would be like switching from the dance floor at Kubiak's to 
the stage ofthe New York ballet. Yet every hack has probably sub­mitted a manuscript to The New Yorker at least once. I still have a 
rejection slip from them. That hap­pened in my salad days when my 
judgment was green. 

E.B. White, asked to handle my flawed masterpieces, would probably have been more tolerant than Royko, asked to share the bar stools with undergraduates. Maybe he would have offered me a copy of "Elements ofStyle," the manual he kept on his bookshelfnext to the Bible. 
Jamesjoyce, in "Ulysses," likened a newspaper office to the cave of the winds described by Homer. An hour-old newspaper is mostly use­ful for wrapping fish; there's not­hing slick about it. That's why it sells on the street for a quarter. One obligation the slick magazine and the tabloid have in common, I think: they have no constitutional right to fill us with lies. 
Some publications don't have a workoftruth-objective, sub­jective, relative or absolute -from cover to cover. They could be stamped with a·warning as cigarette packs are stamped: Caveat emptor; 
"It is, joe, it is. I'm your new team chaplain!" 
"Chaplain?!!?" 

"Joe, when a chaplain loses 22 in a row with all the talent available at Notre Dame, it's about time he got replaced, don't you think? The Pope certainly did. So here l am. Or would you prefer a coaching change?" 

-~---~>:"1 

let the buyer beware. They turn the freedom of the press into a terrible freedom to do harm. 
Journalism, even in high school, is not a children's game. Amateurs should have the rules ofprofes­sionalism, honesty, and fairness drilled into them. Tantrums in a newspaper are as unacceptable as falling off bar stools. Eventually, somebody older is going to tell the spoiled brats to stand down with the children. 
We have a gorgeous English language capable ofsuch deathless glory as the King james Bible and the plays ofShakespeare. Such works have changed the shape of the world by showing us the power ofideas whose time has come. People wishing to be opinion­makers should turn their heads around until they're sure they're facing in the general direction of the truth. Truth doesn't have to be long-faced, like dogma. It doesn't hurt truth to be gentlemanly, like a circus clown. 
E.B. White showed us the ef­fectiveness ofcharm and common sense. In a savage age, we couldn't have had a better teacher. He wouldn't have made fools ofstu­dents who asked for his help. There's a lesson here, I think, for journalism in Chicago. A magazine with the class ofThe New Yorker seems like an impossibility in the Second City. 
"Who am I to question the decisions ofthe 
Pope? Besides, any priest who helps me find a 
hal1back like that deserves to be promoted to 
head chaplain at Notre Dame! Welcome 
aboard, Father Woulfe!" 

"You can call me by my nickname. My 
friends call me Father Rock." 

The Lord was right, thought Rockne. A 
Roman collar at Notre Dame is a perfect 
disguise. 
Even the toupee fit. 
To be continued . .. 

From ""Tbo Glp/Wf"'l Gbos~" copyrlsllt 191U 1>y Robm Q-.,· biUb. Publubod 1>y O"Connor PublUbi"'J Co. ReprinUd 1>y fMmllsskJtt. 

~-------­
Happenings-page 2 
Mishawaka roller rink offers social alternative on wheels 
Marilyn Benchik 
features writer 
T 
hose ofus from Catholic school backgrounds first en­countered wheels on shoes at those 
·famous parish parties. You public school kids might have seen it out there with the rest ofhumanity. It's 
I"' the most American ofsports: roller 
I"' skating.
... 
Skating on wheels may not hold r r all ofthe romantic intrigue ofan SYR, and it probably isn't even as
r 
adventurous as watching Sonny
r 
Crockett do his thing on "Miami
r 
Vice." But for a change ofpace and
r 
a really fun time, roller skating is a 
r 
very enjoyable sport. 
~ 
United Skates ofAmerica is Mis­hawaka's answer to South Bend's lack ofa roller rink. General Manager Art Snowden has nursed -the U.S.A. rink for eight ofits nine years in operation. Snowden, who began skating in 1953, has seen the business become his family affair: Snowden's son works as a disk jockey at U.S.A. and his wife sells tickets and helps out generally. lbree DJ.'s play Top 40 music, the main fare, during the skating sessions at U.S.A. The rink itself has a floor area of 180 feet by 80. The building also houses a concession stand and a video game area. "The sound system is worth ap­proximately S70,000, and it comes complete with a video screen," Snowden said. 
U.S.A. sponsors a Colle~te NiJtht on Sundays. With an ID from any area college, students can purchase tickets for S1.50 and skate frl>m 9 to 11 p.m. Price ofadmission includes skate rental. 
"The activities for this night are impromptu. We try to keep a col-
FAMOUS LAST WORDS 

I"' 
FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
r 
r 
"AI'I' !!""OK to drit·l'("

r 
"What).; ali'II' lwei·.~(·

I r 
"Did .lfl/11 iiW'I' luo IIIIlCh to d1·iuk("
r 
"1'111 iJ''I.1i•r·t/y.fi1w." 
"AI~' !filii i11 1111!/ .~!tape to d1·il'el" "/'1'1' lll'l'r'rfi'lt /wtte1:" 

"/think yrm't'l' had a.fi•w ttHIIIIaii!J." "Ytlll kiddill,l l'a/1 dl'il}(' with 11/!f eyes closed." 
"Ytm't•e had f()() 1/lltch to dri11k. let Ill<' drive." "Nobody drivex 111.11 em· but 111e." 

r 
I 
r r 
r 
I 
DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KIU A FRIEN)SHIR 
Opea7dayl 9amtolam 

lege atmosphere," Snowden said. 
"We're trying to attract the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. Not only would it be fun, but it also gives the students a change ofpace and some exercise," he continued. 
Other special events planned include an all night Halloween Skate and a Toilet Paper Night when people are allowed to tee-pee the rink. 
Last November the Notre Dame football team held a fundraiser for Multiple Sclerosis at the rink. Team members provided entertainment by skating with the crowd. "It was a good time, and we hope they can do it again this year," Snowden added. 
The rink also offers lessons begin­ning next month for those who want to catch up on the skating scene. Cost ofthe Friday evening sessions, which will begin at 6 p.m., is S2. 
Also, appointments can be made with two-time national skating champion Crawford Williams for halfhour private lessons at noa session. Williams is also general manager for the sunday College Night. 
Regulars at U.S.A. are mostly South Bend and Mishawaka teenagers. The rink averages ap­proximately 300 skaters daily and 1400 on weekends. 
"We enjoy working with the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity. Last year we had a great time working with the football team and staff, and this year we're en­couraging students to participate in our College Night Skate," Snowden said. 
United Skates ofAmerica iS located ot 3909 N. Main St. in Mis­hawaka. Hours are from 7 p.m. to 11 
p.m daily. Friday and Saturday admission is $3.25 and Wednesdays the price is S1. Mondays and Tues­days are available for private parties. 


Featuring 24 bulb beds with facial Unit. Our large, contoured beds are over 7feet long and provide a 360° tan. 2314 So. Bend Ave.(next to Martins) Call for appointment 277-6444 
Open 7-9 Mon-Frl 8·8 Saturday 
NIG TCLUB 
Come to Tivoli's 
South Bend's Party Headquarters 
Open 6 nights a week Drinking and Dancing 
9':00 pm-? 
Located on U.S. 33 IV. at North Village Mall 77-1 
Restaurant 

The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown. Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00 P.M. Dinner 5:00 P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 
Cet Sk5&i./lf'~ 
-------------~ 

While a few skaters seem in fear of keeping their balance, others happily bop 'n' roll to the Top 40 tunes at the United Skates of America in Mishawaka. 
THE SOUND MASTER 
MUSIC YOU WANT TO HEAR! c=Over 1500 Watts Ftlrties For Total Fbwer Any Occasion___j OWNER GARY VINCENT 
MOBILE D.J. & LIGHTING 674-0035 
.----------------------------­

52929 U.S. 31 North 
Delivery •v•llable ....., •I a-tl'l Send Loutlon 
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizza for Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizza for Small Pizza Price (Delivery Orders Only) After 5 pm on Fri.-Sat. Only (Limited Delivery Area) 
217-5880 Offer expires Oct. 28 
~----------------------------~ 
!Bd?rzlcND'~ ~{.\~\'0.-a\ /l~ct 
I 
anb 1J1amilu iRentaurant 
Follow 23 South to: 2610 Prairie Ave. South Bend 
' 

288-3320 
Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane 
BUY 2 GET 1 FREE 

.SUBWfRl~
across &om Martin's Supermarket 
Offer expir~s Oct. 29, 1985 
Sandwiches & Salads
277-7744 

(Not valid with any other coupon I · '\fonda) and Tuesday ONL\' with student J.D . 

Happenings-page 3 Friday, October 11 , 1985 

I' 

LJurtng bappter times, Colonel jobn Matrix napping sets up the exciting action in (Arnold Scbwarze11egger) plays witb bis "Commando." daughter jenny (A~}•ssa Milano) · her kid· 
'Commando' thrills 
Movies' ~~~dj, 
•The 
Student Activities Board hosts the movie "Tootsie" tonight and tomorrow night. The film stars Dustin Hoffman as a man who bet:omes a female impersonator in order to meet the girl of his dreams, played hy Jessica Lange. During this comic role-reversal. Hoffman, a drama teacher, becomes involved with one of his stu­dents, played by Teri Garr. Tickets for the 7, 9: I'5, and II :30 p.m. shows in the Engineering Auditorium are SI.'50. 

•The 
Annenberg Auditorium hosts "Diva" tonight at 7:30 and 9:4'; p.m. This romantic thriller includes a variety of visual images and unusual symmetries. At the heart of"Diva" is an opera-intoxicated 


I H-year-old mail carrier who becomes unwittingly entangled in a web of murder, intrigue and passion. Tickets are S3. 

Misc. 
•The South Bend Symphony Or­chestra will begin its '53rd season Satur­day at the Morris Civic Auditorium. Director Kenneth Kiesler will be joined by the internationally acclaimed pianist Malcolm Frager. "Concert Comments," a pre-concert discussion series held by Kiesler, begins at 7: I'5 p.m. on the main floor of the auditorium. 'Ibe works of Berlioz, Beethoven, Prokofiev and Ravel will be among the music performed. Tickets for the Symphony's opening concert are available by calling the Sym­phony office at 232-6343. 
The Scoop 

"The Honeymooners" 

• Tomorrow the Class of '87 and the Around the Corner Club host The Best of the '50's with the Honeymooners at the Alumni-Senior Club from 8:30 p.m. to 
1:30 a.m. The evening will feature a honeymooner screening, in which jackie Gleason, Art Carney, Audrey Meadows and joyce Randolph talk about life as the Kramdens and the Nortons. In addition to the screening, a ''50's dance party with giveaways is planned. 
•The senior class Oktoberfest begins tonight at 6 p.m. at the Alumni-Senior Club. The S3 cover includes an oom-pah band and munchies. The first 800 people in attendance receive free glass beer steins. Faculty and staff are invited and !D's will be checked. 
•Junior Class Softball is today at 4 
p.m. on White Field. This event replaces last weekend's rained-out games. 
•The 
sophomore class-sponsored Chicago Night is this evening at South Dining Hall. Featuring a midnight drawing for a trip for four to the windy city, the prize includes two nights hotel accom­modations, dinner and tickets to see the Second City Comedy Shop. The event is open to all classes. Pizza and coke will be sold. 

•The 
Heritage Dance Company presents "Gotta Dance" in the Bendix Theater of the Century Center. The three part show features a Wizard ofOz skit in addition to tap, modern and interpretative dancing. 

•
Russian comedian Yakov Smirnoft' will perform at Stepan Center tonight at 8 


p.m. Apopular performer, Smirnoffhas made television appearances on "20/20" and "Late Night with David Letterman." His monologue consists primarily of material comparing Soviet and American societies. Tickets for the show, held in a cafe setting, are S3 and available from RockDu Lac. 


"Gypsy" 

•Saint 
Mary's College hosts the Broad­way show "Gypsy" tonight at O'I..aughlin Auditorium. "Gypsy" is the story ofGypsy Rose Lee, the first lady of the world of burlesque. Pushed into show business as a child by her aggressive mother, Momma Rose, played by Rhoda Travis, the musical follows Gypsy's development from a tank-town vaudeville player to an interna­tional celebrity. Tickets for the H p.m. show, available from the Saint Mary's ticket office, are SlO. 

•The 
Audubon String Quartet will perform in the Annenberg Auditorium 4 


p.m. Sunday. 
Mass 
•The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: FatherJohn Fortin at'; p.m. {Saturday 
night vigil). Father George Wiskirchen at 9 a.m. Father Niels Rasmussen at 10:30 a.m. Father Robert Kennedy at 12: I'; p.m . 

.---------------------------------~---------­
FONDA-U FONDUE PARLOR EXP!RfS 
100 c~nltr 

12/13/85
Mithaw•ka D5·UZ6 

DIVIDEND TO BEARER __;SE;;..;;;;...:V;,.::E:..:..N.:.....;:.D..:;.O..::L..::L;;..;A;;..,;R..:;.S_______$ 7.00 
This check Is worth $7.00 off the purchase of a Total Combination Dinner for 2. Not valid with any other promotional offer. 
,.,.. Valid Tuaaday through Friday Dinner only 
~w 

==.::: g~_ ~ y~ 9~ ai-IUI~ -------------------~-~-~~~------~-----------~ 

....... 632~U?v~s7t~C?mQ~5 0-o_\0
~~~ee~t 

Just West ofUniversity Park Mall ~0\' on State Raad 23, Next to Kroger r"': 
Mon. & Weds. 1 0 "/.off with dining room coupon only 
Bob Musselman 
features writer 
D 
on't shoot a character played by Arnold Schwarzenegger. He'll just get mad. 
Schwarzenegger proved that in his last movie, "The Terminator," and makes the point even stronger in his current film, "Commando," playing now at University Park Cinemas. 
In "Commando," Schwarzenegger is ColonelJohn Matrix, former leader ofan American special operations strike force which has assisted in the overthrow of several bad guy regimes around the world. 
Movie review 
COmmando--­

...

**' (out of lour) 
The force outlived its usefulness, and its 
members were given new identities and 
homes. 

Matrix lives in a modern mountain cabin 
with his young daughter, Jenny {Alyssa 
Milano), whom he treats like a queen. But a 
disgruntled old buddy ofhis, Bennett 
(Vernon Wells), whowaskickedoutof 
Matrix's unit, teams up with Arius (Dan 
Hedaya), deposed dictator ofVal Verde, 
whom Matrix had helped send into exile. 
Bennett, Arius and their goons kidnap 
jenny and blackmail Matrix into helping 
Arlus regain power by killing the new presi­
dent. 

.After Matrix is put on a plane to Val Verde, 
he promptly kills his escort and hops out of 
the craft as it leaves the runway. He has 11 
hours, the time the flight Is supposed to take, to rescue Jenny. Now we see the Arnold w which we've grown accustomed. 
Believe it or not, this a funny movie. It has to be humorous, since it certainly isn't realistic. Matrix does things no mortal could accomplish, giving the movie a certain heroic comic book effect. 
Schwarzenegger plays Matrix like a com­bination Rambo-James Bond-Mister Rodgers. The Rambo role creates action, violence, a few hundred dead bodies and an R rating. It's good creative violence · ever see anybody impaled on a steam pipe or partially be­headed with a circular saw blade? 
As a kind and loving father, Schwarzeneg­ger finally plays a a character everybody can love -and he does it surprisingly well. Schwarzenegger, despite his size and increas· ingly deviant image, can play a believably Rice person. And who wouldn't like to have Arnold as a father when arguing "My dad's bigger than your dad?" 
But the James Bond effect makes the movie. Every time Matrix kills a bad guy, he makes some witty remark. His escapes, like Bonds', are so ridiculous that they're funny. As a big Austrian Bond, Schwarzenegger does a good job. He's no Eddie Murphy, but he does have a sense of humor. 
Adecent cast helps create the comic book facade. His straight "man," Cindy {Rae Dawn Chong), a dingbat stewardess he kidnaps at the airport, ends up helping Matrix complete his mission. Hedaya, who also plays Carla's husband on the popular TV show "Cheers," is perfect as the stereotypical Latin strongman Arius. Wells, most recently seen in the movie "Road Warriors," looks ironically like one of the "Village People." 
"Commando" is a movie ofcontrasts, 
ironies, sarcasm and wit. I never thought 
Arnold had it in him. 

....---­
Friday, October 11, 1985
Happenings-page 4 

'Melting pot' of types sparks Commons fun 

The Qbocrva/Stq>hcn lllah2 
Clockwisefrom top:]aneBajc,]ohn Scanlon, Bud and laughs; Three's company for this john Kirsch and Chris Prebys unwind at the group ofNotre Dame graduate art students Commons bar; Tex McAleer and jerry Wat-andfaculty. son, two South Dining Hall cooks, share a 

'1"M Obse-rver/Sitphen Blaha 
< 
{ 
-.... 
• 
•
• 


BUS runs every 30 minutes beginning at 8:30p.m. 
1. 
South Gatehouse 

2. 
Lyons B-Ball Courts 

3. 
Grotto 

4. 
Admin. Bldg. 

5. 
Towers 


John Affleck 
features staffwriter 
T 
he Commons is a bar which has grown. 
In the past, The Commons at 826 
Nonh Eddy St. was the least popular ofthe 
Five Points' bars. Now with Nicky's and 
Corby's Tavern gone and a member ofthe 
South Bend Police at the door ofBridget's 
every night, The Commons has become a 
staple ofNotre Dame social life. 

The rise to popularity has not hurt The 
Commons because it retains the atmosphere 
it has always had, mixing the neighborhood 
bar with clientele from Notre Dame's 
bohemian community. 

From the standpoint ofdecor The Com­

mons is a basic neighborhood dive. There's nothing fancy about the bar itselfor about the tables and booths in the front room. National Geographic maps offoreign countries adorn the walls. The back room features a pool table, a little extra seating and an electric darts game. 
A juke box in the front room provides music for the bar. Mercifully, the selection on the juke box is a good mix ofrecent hits and rock 'n' roll classics such as "Brown Sugar" and "MaggieMay." :; Drinking at The Commons is a pretty inexpensive affair. Budweiser cans have been a dollar for as long as I can remember, and pitchers are $2.75 or $3.75, depending on the brand. I wouldn't recommend doing mixed drinks at The Commons; some ofthe bottles on the back shelflook like they pre-date Prohibition. 

What makes this bar really enjoyable is the people who go there. On any given night at The Commons one will probably find pool shooters from the neighborhood, assorted theater and fine arts majors and even mem­bers ofthe infamous "Buzz Club." 
The crowd at The Commons is an interest­ing, friendly one which knows how to have a good time. "The Commons is my home bar. It's a cool place to hang out," Joe Neuville said. The Commons' partying clientele offer both engaging conversation and many laughs. 
Although I would advise Domers to check out The Commons anytime, the bar is definitely better early in the week when it is less crowded. Monday through Wednesday The Commons is great for a simple beer and conversation. On weekends the bar gets really cramped, making it a better place for topping-off the evening after the late movie is over or the off-campus party runs out ofbeer. 
The Obocrver/Stq>hcn Blaha 
v t_)" 
, .!L 



r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, October 11, 1985 -page 7 
I be IJbSt>rl'er :'llotn· l>amt· ottin·. lcKalnl on lilt" !herd floor ol I.JI unum· ~lUdt·nl <.t·nler. Jnepl' c.:la"ofinl adn·rli,ing Irom 1) J no umil 1 p no ..\fonda\ through Frida\ 7'be IJhSerl·er ~ainl \fan·, offiu· lot Jlnl on lht· lhord floor of IIJggar Colll"gt· (.t'nlt:r, at-cepl' c.:la"ifinl' from 12 ~~~ p rn umil ~ p no ..\lon da\· though hida' lkadlont· for nt·xt·dJ\ tla'"fin" i' ~ p no .-\11 tla"ofit·d' mu'l ht· prt·paod.l'ilher in pt·r,on or 1)\ mao I. ( harJ.lt'" llltl"IH' pn r;,·t· t harK
Classifieds 
lt:r' t:r daY. 
LOOK, WHOEVEII II THE .ACKPACK 4SALE:4Army GA'S,IArmy&USC PLEAIEII MY FOLKS WILL BE HERE OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR WARNING TO ALL SMC GIRLS' The KLEPTOMANIAC AND HAS NAUED 4 Stud.B.0.277-3923 FOR USC: THEY HAVEN'T SEEN A CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 Holy Crou guya at SMC lcbrary are from
NOTICES OTMEII .ACKPACKI TMII WI!EK NOT GAME YET. I'M A SR. & THEIR BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. lhe jr. col.. nol the hall at N.D.--Dom... TO MENTION MINE, I JUIT WANT YOU KEYBOARD, Korg Poly-800. 5 moe. old, YOUNGEST CHILD. I'D BE IN· are more tun! TO KNOW TMAT YOU'VE IIIADE MY xcel cond. $550 or beel offer. call Tom al CREDIBLY GRATEFUL IF YOU WOULD Help us avOid the Beantown blu•. Gcve UFE A UVINO HELL TMII WEEK. AT 1619. SELL ME 2 GA'S. NAME YOUR PRICE-I us a ride lo Boeton or vicinity for Oc1ober PONG, I DON'T KNOW THAT WE CAN 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
LEAIT USE WHAT UTILI! DECENCY AM DESPERATE. THANKS. CALL RICK break. Cai1Mana4174. TOP LAST WEEKEND, BUT I DO KNOW 287-4082 
YOU HAVE LEFT TO IIETUIIN MY AT 1750. THAT IT'LL BE FUN TRYING! PING. NOTEI.AOAIN, IT II A BIIOWN Biff: So you'll be a1 lhe D.Y.B.O. In La JANIPORT CONTAINING I need 3 Army Sludenl Tix and 4 USC Fortune on Salurday nigh! around 9:00. 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8"7 
TICKETS

IR,FIIENCH,ICIENCE GA'a or Studenl Tix. Will pay lop $, call Are you sure you can afford the $2.007 NOTE.OOKI,AND KEYI.•IIINO TO 1644-Dan PAR 3 will be playing loud and outrageous 
DESPERATELY NEED A BABYSITIER EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 FOR FRIDAY NIGHTII JoN nevllf cri•
L08T AND FOUND IN THE AD .UILD­Rock-n-Roll, hopefully loud enough 10 INO OR lEND AN ANONYMOUI NOTE I NEED USC GA'a Have cash & home I need 4 Army & 4 USC GA's calf Mike muffle your screams tor help. Gandy end Ia well behaved' WIM pay $$$' 
PLEASE CALL MARY AT 284-4439. WALSH IN CARE OF VICTIM. ................................. BRIDGET'S BARGAINS: Good during all BUSINESS EXPRESS, INC ARMY QAa FOil SALE.232·1418 open houra on apecified daya. MON & Want to go on a telhered balloon ride? Wordproc-ng and typcng TUES $.60 -$.75 Come thia Saturday to the field betw.-> 
AI TO ITI WHEREA.OUTI TO 315 GA'alor lrade: Call DAVE 1712 3095 
• DRAFTS... WED L08T: MY NAVY ILUE IPOftT COAT
272-8827 NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE ARMY GAME. I need 1wo NAVY GA'a. Name your price. ROOT BEER SHOTS ... THURS ·$1.00 the dining haM and lhe Nbrary a1 Saml CALL SUE 284-5477. · Mary's. Join lhe alcohol educalion oouncll 
II ON TMII CAMPUI IOIII!WHI!IIE. I PIMMca!l Bob al283·1143. MOLSONS ... FRI $.75 WATERMELON 
lor a natural high. Bnng $1.00 on Satur·
SHOTS ... $.35 HOT MUNCHIES DAILY. WILL .E NO ? AIKI!D. NO ONE HAS NEED 2-4 USC TIX GA OR STUD KATH· WOULD UKE IT UCK AND TMERE 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL I NEED GAa FOR ARMY a UIC.27a­day from 4:00 to 6:00. Wealhllf permit· MRS COKER. 233-7009 UOI LEEN 277-1464 ling.
CALLI!D cYOUT THI!IR IPOftT COAT TMAT I HAVE. PLI!Aal! CALL MIKE AT 
Need nde lo Chcc:ago(S.Subutlla) on WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY NEED TWO GA'S FOR ARMY. CALL OKTOBERFEST
11011F YOU HAVE MINE OR I HAVE Fnday, 10/II.CaM Mcke,1781. YOUM. GA'S AND 2 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT SMC4180. SENIOR CLASS 
1733/1757 OKTOBERFEST 
HELP! I need a nde from Wall. DC to NO FOR SALE FRIDAY OCTOBER 11 AUTHENTIC on Oc1. 27. Will ehare exp.,_, Call WOftDPROCI!ISINO 2 ARMY GAME TIX, AND 2 USC TIX. GERMAN FOOD, BEER AND MUSIC Kathy 112600. alT-4041 CALL ADRIENNE OR ROBIN; 3808 ALUMNI/SENIOR CLUB 6pm-2am FIIEE PICKUP a DWV!RY need 4 lias to army call 2723491 (gu) PRICE NEGOTIABLE! COME EARLY! $3 COVER CHARGE 
The Nalc had an anack-bul now ehe'e FREE GLASS MUG WHILE SUPPLIES 
bact<! love.theacreamera 

NEEDED· USC GA'a. WiK pay lop$! Call .............................................. LAST . THANKS ST.JUDE FOR FAVOR Al287-9196. DESPERATELY SEEKING 4 Army Ga'a. Hello Bol Welcome to Notre Darnel Let'a GRANTE011 'JAR WiU pay lop$$$. CaM Jeanne 112750. ll'a jull AROUND THE CORNER ... have a aupllf lemlcc -end hied with 
RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CALL MIKE AT .................................. The .... ol 111e IIO'a wl1h the profound thoughla, Iota ol laugha and 
OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR 
1605 Deaperately need J Navy GA'a ASAP HONEYIIOONI!M summertime lunlllll L~e Alwllya, Michael CITY/COLLEGATE RENTALS Andy 1582 at the Alumni Senior aub INC.,2597661 Need many USC GA lix. Wil pay big Saturday at8:30 p.m. bucka' p-call28~3477. HTMERE 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED TO
LOST/FOUND 
SEWNG 4 USC TICKETS. Beat offer. JENNI MILLEII SHARE A VERY NICE TWO BEDROOM 
MIKE33BO JENNIMILLER HOUSE IN MISHAWAKA-NON 
Need 1 USC GAtor So. Cal. Dad. Will pay Yea, I edmil it, I want to go toN-J..-ey JI!NNI MILLEII LOST: ALRIGHT. I'VE HAD IT. ON 9/24 SMOKERS ONLY 258-4584. good$. Gall Pete at2353. NEED MANY USC GA'a or STUD. RICK tor Oc1ober breal<. And yea, I edmil II I HAPPY BIRTHDAYI/1 MY BLUE BACK PACK WAS STOLEN Turning ao Ia a mllelll-In -··Hie
288-5418$$$ want to be hllfe tor the Army and USC 
NEED PENN ITATE TlX!II gemea. Finally, I have to admillhatlneed lhiiiCIIIIelar rallectfon on llle pall! and SHARE 3BR HOME WITH 2 NONSMOK· WiN trade 2 Navy GA'e a ride to the Garden State. WIM pay the planning far 1ha IUIUN. Lalli -­FROM THE SOUTH DININO HALL. I 
HAVE RUN THIS AD FORA WEEK AND I 
lNG GR. STUDENTS. $130ft UTIL. 232· For 2 Penn State GA'e uaual. Pleue call3480 II you can offllf me -aclrunkenllflalr, eo IUatl,.....ne
HAVE HAD NO LUCK. I AM REALLY 
8327 CALIFORNIA LAWYER NEEDS 4 G.A. a ride. what IIIIa wtl be Mul The
PISSED'IT WAS AN OLD THING, BUT I II you've got PMin •-IlK, -­
TICKETS TO USC. ANY PRICE 263­
Lullhoue Lyon!... 2·3 BDRM. HSE (CARPETED), 3197 L08T: ONE ROOMMATE. Blew town 
WANT IT BACK MY ROOMMATE'S Cllll~lll2082 
MAROON JACKET WAS IN THERE AND IF YOU DON'T GIVE ANYTHING ELSE 
$275/MO. CALL 277-1589 OR 277 ·2364. ................................................ Sunday night Laalaeen at The ObM<ver BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN LIVE TAPES NEED TIX FOR MISS. GAME! WILL PAY USC TIX FOR SALE 4 TOGETHER 40.50 office? Male, 5' 11 ,"dark hair. Anaw...to from all toura tor aale or tr-. Llll ln­BACK. PLEASE AT LEAST GIVE ME 
THE JACKET BACK IF YOU HAVE IT. TOP DOLLAR! REALL Y!!l CALL MARY YO eALL PETE 317-792-4609 "Mark." II you have any info, callt373. dudee ~ary ohow at ND('78,78,&81) 
......................
AT 1323 IF YOU'RE WILLING TO Special ordare lor epaciflc dal• I NEED USC TIX. CALL BRIAN AT2937. 
PLEASE SHOW SOME COMMON available. Call2011 for Info 
DECENCY AND CALL 3884 THANK 
NEGOTIATE! I 
WE HAVE YOUR ROOMMATE. He FOR SALE: 4 ARMY G.A.'S. BEST OF· anew... to Marl< Mc-eomalhlng-or-other. 
YOU VERY. VERY MUCH1 
WANTED 

FER CALL MARYANN 277-3923 Give ua the Sony and the Maclnloeh. or HELP I!! MILLIONAIRE RECLUSE -·M Mnd him back. 
Hey Jewela-eome of ua have atelieh woth ARE YOU DATELESS? I'M LIME jello, not greanl Old you chack It
NEEDS 3 GAS AND 2 STUDENT TIX TO Need nde oo Deyton any -end. Call ARMY WILL PAY$$$ CALL BILL EVE DESPERATE! I NEED 4 ARMY GA'S, Deaf Roommatea: Eacaped lrom captcn. out? We made the ObM<vllf! I'm eo LOST GRAY EDDIE BAUER BACK 
PACK WITH BLACK STRAPS AND WILL TRADE GOOD TIME WITH MISS Found an ObM<ver on the beach hllfe In excoted, and I jual can'l hcde ft. I'm aboullo
Marca4174. AND MORNINGS 2886296 CALIFORNIA OR BIG BUCKS FOR T!XII Maul. (Or io thia Hawaii?) Appreciala your 1oee control..ah. torvet 11. The jello ce SEVERAL BOOKS IN NORTH DINING 
HALL ON 10.4 IF FOUND PLEASE 
HEY I CALL JILL X2904 concern. Sand suntan lotion and Lucky ready-meet me allhelridge. L~e. Dave CALL t•95 
WILL TRADE 2 ARMY, NAVY, MISSI8-Channa. • MARK 
JOBB-JOBS-JOBS-JOBS SliM need SMC Deeperalely need 5 GA tor Navy or Mlu. Francoaco Bueno!-Siobhan:e do81an'1
SIPPI,LOST: HEMATITE (GREY) and GOLD 

oludenla to perticipale en a lundraietng geme. Money no object. CaiiK~in2113. m2c.The "afler1ile" otarll loday Bel»
OR LSU GAe FOR BEADED BRACELET"' I aleo loet the 

campetgn. WiM contact 24.000 llfumnae, Wllnll to wleh Thllf,... the happletal ol 1>­
• UIC ltudenl or GAa perenta. end fnende by phone. Eepacially 234-741a JI!IIEMY OR JOHN I need 4 GA'a for ND-USC wi" accept 2 Long IIIIMd Club ltua lhe only bua to daya.(and from me,loo,Karen)1'1181''e eye bracelet' PLEASE call STEP· 
HANIE at 1327 ct you ha"e found 81ther 
cnlllf•led in gn1tl who are llaytng hllfe aela of 2 call Kathy al 1124 R<>rne<>Cyou know,l uaed lo have a ocene
O.K. Long laland ia leaving FRIDAY Oc1. 18one" I WOULD BE ETERNALL YGRATE­
durcng Oc1ober break. Call Pal al535ttor with him)lan't coming 'round here no
going lo Hempetead bus terminal, and it FUL (of that cen't good enougl1 how doee 
an '"'"'"'ew. Lola of $$1 TAKE ADVANTAGE OF ME!! I have two wiN return lo N.D. Sunday Oc1. 27. Round more-lhe etmple truth ca. my wile gol etck. 
REWARD eound7) THANKS" 
ARMY GAe. They are youra lor two USC Somewllllfe,eomehow.aomeoneiS going 
trip ia $76.00 One way trip ia $45.00 Calf I'M DESPERATE!!' RIDE NEEDED TO GAe or caeh. Call Sl~e a1 1204. Hurry to payiHAPPY 19th!! L~e.Judy
Pale or Paul at 2448 tor Info and reaerva­LAKE CHAS., LA FOR FALL BREAK. NI!I!D a IIIIIIIAIPPI TlX. Cllll llolt at before I wiN upII tiona. (Sh-nnon) 
HAVE YOU EVER LOST SOMETHING 
CAN LEAVE FRI. AFTERNOON. SHARE 1381. USUAL CALL KERI 4072 .. QUICK' For Sale: 2 Army GA'a, 1 lludenl, and 1
VERY SPECIAL TO YOU?II not, can you lENlOR CLAM OKTClai!RFEIT cmagme how you would feel cl you loet a 
NEED TWO USC TICKETS REAL BADI U.S.C. otudenllickel CALL 3442. CELIEMAT10N FRIDAY OCT.11 6PM-NSHP Tutcnlll Don'llorgat Bowling with prMent from your boyfnend or gor1friend? 3457 2AM AT THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB. klde, Sal. Oc1. 12, lla.m. lo !p.m. 11 PRETTY ROTIEN, HUH? WeM NEED RIDE TO NORTHERN N.J. FOR COME FOR
that'a AD HELPI NEED 2 TICKS FOR NAVY EARLY DIN­Beacon Bowl. Need a ride? Stop by Main how I leel nght now becauM I loet the BREAK WILL SHARE EXPENSES CALL HEAR YEI Utile Siller coming up tore GAME. WHAT'S YOUR PRICE? CALL NER,AUTHENTIC FOOD,DRINK AND Circle al 10:45. Gol a cai? PLEASE atop OLE MISS! The laaa hu ne'llf .....,e KERRY:1302 MUSIC.INVITED GUESTS IN· by Main Circle II 10:45 to give oth.,. a
GOLD BRACELET my boytnei>d ge"e FRANK 1502 
....................... 
me. II 11 aomewllllfe on lhe roed belwHfl NOTRE DAME h-eat home! Oodee of CLUDE:Tommy Laeorda, David Letter­ride. Any quealione? Call Annie 4012. LeMana and Soon. PLEASE HELP ME STUDENT WANTED TO SELL HOT caeh Involved, wille take GA or STUD Tia! WALLET FOUNDI-11 wu mine though. man,Ronald Reagan,Danny Domer. Paul PleaaeComell But thal'a wily I have $ tor ONE USC GA. 
FIND IT II you do, call Judy at 284-5063. NEW FOOTBALL BOARD GAME. MUST PLEEEEZE HELP! CaMe 3457. Newman,Jane Boland, Rodney Danger· THANK-YOU!!! BE AMBITIOUS AND OUTGOING, WITH CaM Dave1090. fleld,Dick Naugle,Robart Bligh,Shllhy Tomorrow le Tom McNeil'o birthday, bul A SPORTS BACKROUND. OWN Long,Tim McDowell, Pal Sajack,Vanna he'a gotta wort<. Stop by 1025 Flinner
.Yoi''.:i;;i·,;.:;;;y··i;.;~i·i;;;.·iiw;;·;~:·~
LOST: BLUE BACK PACK WITH White, Mlcllael Jaclcaon,Anna E~ lodlly 11 6 and wleh him a happy B-day MAROON TRIM, CONTAINS A JACKET POSITION WITH NEW DISTRIBUTOR. Need 3 USC GAa. Wll pay any hie day & mine. Call St~e.1851. II110<1,F,.nk Sinatra. Margaret for an hour. Or cal 1208. Oh. and don't 
HOURS. GROUND LEVEL SALES 
r.....,... price. Call Chria 1898 coniuM him with CaMy. .......................................... HELPI I NEED 4 MISSISSIPPI G.A'a. 
AND A CHECK· BOOK (THE CHECKS CALL KEN'S DISTRIBUTING, (707)763-Thalchllf.the South Dakota Club Preai­
ARE ALL CANCELED) AND IS LABELED 8048, COLLECT. dent,Meryt Straep, T_. tor 
. '(SWILL PAY WlELL WILL AND/OR ARMY
WITH AN AIRLINE TAG. CALL 3211 OR NEED USC GA TRADE USC F....cathenne Oxenburg Mluy Som­32011 mer,Shavy & Tavy, Sarah E. Haml~
CALL 284·5494 STUD AS PART OF DEAL. PETEA-1007 
...................................-.. SARA HARTY EVERYONE'S GOING 
ton,The Pope. 2 of Ul Wllnl logo IO CINCY 10.11 we BOSTON DOMERS LOOKING FOR WILL TWADE2ARMYGA'SANO$FOR TO HAVE A GOOD TIME TODAY liE· 
CAUSE ITS YOUR BIRTMDAYIIneed eithllf a nde or nderw eo pleue call USC TICKETS. WlLUNG TO PAY $$$. 4 OR 2 MISS. GA'S. KEITH-3034 WATCH TMOSE CONTACTS TONIGHT Moe al4173 if intllf..led CALL HELEN 277-4324 EVENINGS 
LOST: THURS. OCT 3 WILSON 'SURE HELP! NEED 2 NAVY GA'SI CALL AND DON'T FALL OFF THE WAGON
............................................................... 
8:00.11:00

SHOT' BASKETBALL AT THE ROCK. IF ................................................................ TOO HARD. LOVE, YOUR WONDER·
ATIENTION HOOKERS!! PERSON ALISON2980 
FOUND PLEASE CALL x1212 WILL TUDI! a UIC GA'. FOft Z PENN FUL ROOMMATES 
NEEDED TO COMPLETE 18X18" LATCH-HOOK RUG. EARN $$$. CALL 
ITATE TlX. 201-1111-4127. PREGNANT? 
NOW I .EQQINOIIII Niieo..usc..rix-·wiU:it.iG"ro.'P'-:Y'B'oo KAREN-HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO A VERY 
AM WHOI!VEII NI!I!DHI!LP?
MARC AT 1914 AFTER 7PM DECIDtil MY DI!NIM JACKI!T-WITM $$$RALPH 277·0177 2 ARMY GA'I tor aale beet offer. call Calf 234-0363. 24-hr. hotline, counaaling "EDikE"' WOMANI LOVE,MUFFY, 
TMI! TWO. TONI!, INAPS, a ZIPPI!II ................................................................ lan'y3460 & free pragnancy t-.WOIIEN'I CARE BUFFY ,MINDY.MANDY.SUZY,SLEAZY. OFF ILI!I!VI!I-WAI WOin'H fiiiORI! AREA TO NO .y NOON 10/21. HI!LPI NEED 2 USC GA TIX HAVE 2 STUDENT CENTEJI ANDEAZY TO TMI!M TMAN ME-YOU ARI! TIX FOR ALL OTHER GAMES TO 2 GA U. usc. 415-968-5291 Duty Office. 
NEED RIDE FOR 2 FROM BAL TO./DC 
call Kevin 1112048. 

'MIONQIITMAT JACKI!T II WOIITH TRADE AND SS$S CALL RED 1598 Leave name and meaagelor Juon. 
................................................................
Maftl! TO Ml! TMAN ANYTMING­PLEASE TAKE ME HOME lor break to !!!HAPPY BIRTHDAY SISJII Tha COULO YOU PLI!Aal! FIND IT IN YOUII Kewanee.ll.(-1 on 1-80) 10/18 or MOM AND DAD FLYING OUT FROM LA 4aale 1USC & Army atud tix CHEAPI Goodyear Blimp waa bool<ed eo you'l THANK YOU, ST. JUDE. 
HI!Ain TO III!TUIIN IT TO ~ t0/19.Call Jack 2073. have to be content with thia. Have a great FOR USC GAME. IT'S THEIR FIRST 1070 
AND ONLY NO FOOTBALL GAMEl I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THEM. AM WILLING ARMY TlX FOft SALE jG.A.'I AND 
LYONS/11281111 20th! L~e ya, Jerry CHICAGO CLU•I 
Wanted: nderw to and from Sl. Louca lor ) CHICAGO CLU•I 
TO TRADE 2 ARMY GA'S OR PAY
HEY: Do you like my JEAN JACKET? I break. Leaving 10/17. CaM Mike 288· ITUDI!NT) WILL II!LL RI!AIONAM.E 'OlE LAW CARAVAN ) CHICAGO CLU•I know I DID. II by accodenl you took It from 4650 CASH. PLEASE CALL GARY AT 1776. pNf-given to-_,,. II ) "SOCIAL GATHERING 1" ( THANKS!
Flannllf'l ptl on Tu-y "'llhl, pl­al ollh-ICIIII 271·7170) COMING ) Thla Saturday Nigh!, tOpm. 261 Drivllf lor U-Haul to Santa Cruz al Xmu
reiUrn 11. SS$S Reward offllfed and no Wed., Oct. 11,1rom 11 -•o 3 pm, at CAvanaugh. Queaffona? Call1475. qu•lcona uked. Calf 1177. MY SISTER IS COMING IN FOR THE
brk. Call234-9271. llle • ._"Can1er THANKS... WANTED: (2) GA USC TIX-BILL MISS. GAME AND NEEDS ALL TOUR 100 .__ lchoolllape. wll be on hand D.H.C. Flnallyl Hope you broughl plenty TIXSII SHE IS OFFERING HER FIRST
RIDE NEEDED to Mpla. One way or (617)746-8700 farOI--oelnlonnalmeatl... of quartera and pop .-.Be Wlllchlng out 
BORN AND/OR CASHI PLEASE CALL ALL ITUDENTI ARE INVITI!D 
round trip. Would like to leave before lorlhebugoa. Y.A.H. IIIII. L~e. C.P. 
ROBAT1034

ARMY and relurn before USC. $$$ BOSTON DOMERS LOOKING FOR DI!IPI!IIATELY HEKINO "FILA" pr~ided. Call Mark now-3584 USC TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY $$$. 
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF ME for 4 GA'alo
UCK-PACK CALL HELEN 277-4324 EVENINGS 
USC or LSU--call Big Jeff at3559 ,:,·APPv··a:o,\v··riiE:Ni'''oROC:oci<!i
To wll~llf It may concern; On Tu811day. 6:00.11:00 
To the anonymoua Mndllf of glfla--Thank PROMISE ME YOU WON'T SLEEP
Oc1ober 8, be-II:45olm & NEED RIDE TO BUFFALO OR NIAGARA 
USC-NO GA TIX NEEDED. CALL TOM you! And how did you know thai Bunllf­OUTSIDE ALL NIGHT, DANCE ON THE 
!2:15pm. my bact<-~ diUpp-ed I'm paying $300 to tty my lillie aiater up from the South Dining Hal. The FALLS AT BREAK. CALL LISE-283-2629 
HOLLERBACH COLLECT AT 312-585-Rum waa my favorite llavor?? Wll I be BANISTER OR THE RADIATOR. ORfrom T..,_,Florida to-the Army 
5959. liMe loMI< you thia in perwon? I hope eo... CALL ME FOR THE RUNt MAKE IT
heill wu a good one, app<OI<Jmalely geme, but ehe do81an'l h'"e a ticket. Now GREAT! LOVE, EMILY 
$500 In mercllandiM, bul only !hat I've blown !hal much, I fn911M welt 2 ARMY GA'S FOR SALE. CALL 4062. "Remember, 'Sill< no-.may no1 die. but 
wortll on.quartllf of the! to the poeeee-ONE-WAY RIDERS TO ALBANY. NY or ~ acme mora. Sal me an Army GA 1-80 pia en route tor Breal<. Calf JuNe they wiN nevllf grow.' 
" 
HEY SWlEET LIP8-HAPPY 18TH 8-0AY
and flnd out juot how much more. II wll be ,.,..,.. vllfue: one TORTS boot<, PllfW, Kl298. welt worth your trouble, I promiae. Call 
aor. Coni--•of 
NEED TICKETS FOR USC GAME CALL FROM FTW COALITION. REMEMBER: ANN 284-4296 IF YOU USE THOSE LIPS TOO MUCHhighlighl....etc.. bul more THEY MIGHT TURN SOUR. 
MILWAUKEE DESPERATELY NEED 
and r811d with and my whole RIDE TO MILWAUKEE AREA ON _,.,.. wortll of not• lor a1 my FRIDAY THE 18TM CAN LEAVE EARLY 
lmporlanlly my giMeee lhat I uae to ­
.. ~me /a money ... lnfonnation II money ... documentation II everytlling ... ,..,.
IN THE AFTERNOON WILL PAY USUAL NEED 2 USC GA'S. CALL CHRIS AT
-IAell-.lam 
PERSONALS 

/a no auiM~tutelor planning ... 
en lllfioul trouble without my not• and CALL SARAH 284--4391 EVENINGS 1488. TOOAY IS OFFICIAL. PICK ON CASEY ~.WhoeverNict HAYFORD DAY' SO IF YOU SEE HER, Law School wu ...y? Arry !~formation MAKE SURE YOU GIVE HER A HARD
NEED UIC TlCKETII Wll appreciate 
···e.;;;·~;;;;,:·;;·;;,~-~~;;;;;·;;;·~·;;~ So, how Ia the "dolaituation?" 
your Help Calf Stephen 111989 1111 th.,. becauae you have nwn them
'-ling lo lhe return of TIME I (THIS IS MUCH BETIER THAN A 
any of thwe articlee would be ap­BIRTHDAY AD, RIGHT CASEY?) LOVE 
FOR SALE 
HELPII NI!ED ONI! AIIIIY GA FOR MY there.
prtiCiated. P'-8cai277-Q182 YA.M.C.
RIDE DESPERATELY NEEDED TO ...........................................
DAD. WILL PAY ..cJ .UCKI. CALL
or llop by the Law Scllool LlbrWy W
ROII2101 Wrntt you cllooee to cto with them /1 up NEW YORK CITY AREA! Need ride to Brenda, Jan I Kf/Myanytime. 
to you. NYC for tal breai<.Can leave Thura. altllf· 1977 Oldl Cut Sup Brougham: 350 V-8; 
noon.WII ehare e~. Calf Jim Thenk You .. 
Loatl One jMn jact<et, probelolylul Friday pa,pb,A/C,T·Topa,CruiN,Rec.nt Eagle HELP I HELPI NEED 1 ARMY GA'SI WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! CALL TED AT 4073 -Richard Bach, lllual-. a1160.P'-help me in my hour olIn room 114 Oehag .. If you found it pleaM s... 100wCullomStereo.Sharp!Robart ] needIIORBOBAT2199125&-11346.
call784. 


Sophomore Michelle Dasso ofthe Irish women's tennis team bas allowed her considerable tennis skills to cany her a long way in her career. Marty Burns features Dasso in his story above, while john Coyle previews the 9-1 tennis squad's weekend St. Louis trip to the North Star Conference championships. 
--------------------~--­
The Observer Friday, October 11, 1985-page 8 
Gerlacher moves into vital role for soccer team 
By CHRIS KOSTER 
Sports Writer 
All Tom Gerlacher wanted was to win a position on the varsity team. The freshman from Columbus, Ohio, hardly imagined himself as a starter for the Notre Dame soccer team. 
But Gerlacher is more than just a starter. In his first season, he has found himself anchoring one of the key positions on the Irish squad, and he's doing it well enough to be clas­sified as a leader. 
"Tom offers us a lot offensively with his aggressiveness and his abilty to read the plays developing," says Notre Dame Head Coach Den­nis Grace. 
As a center midfielder, Gerlacher is called upon constantly to be in-

Notre Dame women's tennis team figures to go to the top with Dasso 
By MARlY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
The game of tennis has taken Mic­helle Dasso a long way. The sop­homore star of the Notre Dame women's tennis team started out in the state of Washington, moved to California for high school, and won a college scholarship half way across the country at Notre Dame. Now she is looking to go right to the tQp. 
That trip to the top of women's collegiate tennis may wind up to be the shortest of all her journeys if Dasso can maintain the consistent play which has been her trademark these past two seasons for the Irish. The versatile right-hander currently stands 6-2 in singles matches this fall, and has racked up an 8-2ledger so far with partner Susie Panther in doubles competition. 
All ofthis bodes well for the future of the young player, who set the Irish record last year for highest career winning percentage (.813) in doubles play. In fact, Dasso just may get the chance to determine ifshe is at the top come the spring season. At that time individual invitations will be extended for the NCAA Division I tournament. 
Notre Dame head coach Michele Gelfman, who takes over this year's team in its first season in Division I, seems confident that Dasso will get the chance eventually. 
"I think Michelle has an excellent future at Notre Dame, and will pos­sibly be one of our players in NCAA Nationals," says Gelfman. "She's very consistent with her physical game but will have to play intense tennis mentally this spring. This program has changed dramatically but Mic­helle knows what she has to do." 
Although Dasso would rather play as a team in Nationals, a team invita­tion for the Irish seems unlikely.lt is quite possible, however, that Dasso will be playing with teammate Pan­ther as a doubles entry. 
''I'd really like for us to make it'as a team to Division I Nationals this year," says Dasso. "But Susie and I play pretty well in doubles, so at least I think we can qualify for the individual NCAA's." 
Dasso's credentials would appear to make her a favorite for college honors. The Sunnyside, Wash. native was ranked the No. 1 player in the state as a freshman in high school before moving to California for the remainder of her prep days. Once in southern California, the tennis mecc;o. of the United States, Dasso led her high school to a pair of un­defeated seasons. When the time came for Dasso to move on, Notre Dame and USC came knocking at her door. 
"I was offered scholarships to both Notre Dame and USC," says Dasso, "But ND is better academi­cally and I wanted to come here. 

volved in the action. Often games are decided on the basis of which team is better able to control the midfield. The importance placed on his performance has forced Gerlac­her to mature quickly as a player. And that means learning how to make up for mistakes. 
"I realize that I'm inexperienced," the 5-10, 1 S S-pounder said after Notre Dame's 5-3 loss to Marquette last Wednesday. "I get beat a lot, but I work hard and hustle to make up for it. I'm not the most skilled player out there, so I have to play hard and be determined to be successful at mypositon." 
Gerlacher's determination has paid oft; as he has held the top spot on the Irish scoring chart for most of the season. He currently has three goals and three assists to his name. 
"The move to California was a good experience. I went to an academy down there and was coached by Robert l..ansdorp, who was a coach of Tracy Aus~n. My parents were totally supportive and they really helped me." 
Dasso seems to have made the right decision, for she had relatively instant success when she began playing college tennis for the Irish. As the No. 4-singles player last year she posted a 20-8 mark and won a North Star Conference champion­ship. In doubles play with the since­departed Cathy Schnell, Dasso tallied a 26-6 slate and won an NSC championship. In addition she won the respect of her teammates, par­ticularly Panther. 
"She's probably the most naturally-talented player on the team," says Panther, who holds a slew ofIrish records herselfand who was the team's Most Valuable Player last year. "It's fun to play alongside her because she's very aggressive. She's a very intense competitor and has a tremendous amount of poten­tial." 
Gelfman agrees with Panther that 
"Tom has good individual tac­tics," Grace said. "He's not a breakout player but he plays a con­stant hard game and is a very reliable passer." 
Despite Notre Dame's 3-8-3 record, Gerlacher said he has not suffered a lack of optimism in the team's playing or in his own abilty to contribute. He has consistently been tested by some of the best college players in the country, and he said he feels lucky to be able to play and learn under those conditions. 
"We're playing at a great level of competition," Gerlacher said. ''I'd much rather play against the best and take my knocks than not to be challenged as competitively. I love being able to play with this group of players." 
Second-year coach Grace is 
the best in Dasso may be yet to come. 
"When I first saw her play, I knew she had unreal potential that had not yet been tapped," says Gelfman. "She's got an excellent all-around game, but she has to get her mental level up." 
The mental aspect of the game is one which Dasso is ready to conquer now that she has settled into the ten­nis program. So far this season, though, not many players have been able to challenge Dasso. This may change over the weekend as the Irish travel to St. Louis to play in _the NSC fall tournament. 
"I wish we could have played bet­ter schools, but this was supposed to be a transition period," says Dasso. "The spring is our main season. Still, this year I've learned a lot about the mental part of the game, and I have things better under control on the court this year. This weekend should be a challenge because we start conference play." 
As usual, Dasso is looking forward to her next destination. Today she will be in St~ Louis, but her future may hold even greater tennis des­tinations. 
Obocrver/Chaltanf2 Panchal 
responsible for scheduling the tough teams for the Irish this season. The high level of competition was established as a means of attracting talented young players such as Ger­lacher to play for Notre Dame, which offers no scholarships for soc­cer players. 
Grace hit the jackpot with his freshmen this year, and he said he is expecting a lot from them in the years to come. 
"Tom is definitely a contributing freshman," Grace said, "and I'm very happy he'll be here for four years." 
Do you control your Eating or... Does Eating control you? 
Learn to Control your Eating Habits 
Call Counseline & ask for Tape 50, 51, & 52 
239-7793 
,.,_....,.,__.. COUNSELINE. ~ 
Monday-Thursday 4-12 p.m. 

C!rarttr i.Expnsurt Jrngram 
!/k ~ ~.. --'.%.u.e .@.,_ ~· ~ 
J~ a Cf&'aUJM $~ 8~ ~ 
fw. f>1U -'o/tk ~. 
alltr <llarur &posurr IJrogram ill intrnllrll for Juniors anll 
stniors wlto Itaur !tall tltr nurssaru prrrrquillttr courara to sprnll a wrrlt working anll unllrrstanlling in tltrir prosprctiur carrrr cltoicr. alltr numbrr anll tvpr of uoluntrrr rmptoumrnt spots oprn ill llrprnllrnt upon tltr auailabilitv anll willingnrss 
of local firms. a!Itrrrforr. all carur options mau not br auailablr for tltr wult of uoluntur rxposurr. · 
Jlinallu. it is important to rrall;r tltat tltrsr arr profruional profrssional ftnna participating in a profruional rntrrprtsr. &cit rrsumr ill prrsrntrll to tltrm anll it is important tltat timt 
anll rffort br put into prtsrnting tltr applicant, anll tltt llniutrsttu. in tltr brst mannrr posstblr. 
The following clubs have volunteer spots In the designated areas: 
Albany. NY: All fields will be considered. Aurora/Fax Valley.IL: Mechanical Engineering. Law. Physics Florida West Coast: Psychology, Social Work. Education. Plltsburg: Accounting, Banklng/Finance.Law.Sparts Writer. Social Work. La Crosse. WI: Agrlcullure.Law.Business.Government.Communlcatlons.Englneering.Architecture Los Angeles: Communications. Engineering. Medlclne.Law.Real Estate.Banklng.Archllecture. Rochester. NY: All fields will be considered. Orange County, CA: All fields will be considered. 
Tampa Bay: All fields will be considered. 
.Jfuou art inttnsttb in tltt C!rarur llrtak £xposurt Jlrogram. pltan pick up an application anb nturn tt compltttb to tltt Notrt llamt .Alumni .Association offtrt at 2D1.Abministration lluilbing. 
Applications are due October 18. 19851n the Alumni Association 
THE LAW CARAVAN 
•
IS 

COMING 
Wed., Oct. 16 
11om-3pm at Stepan Center 
..._..,...loythe ND-IIIIC P--l.aw SOc:l.ty 
The Irish will travel to Normal, Ill., this weekend to participate in the Il­linois State Tournamnet. Notre Dame will face the host Redbirds tomorrow and Vanderbilt on Sun­day. 
"We need 100-percent play the whole game from everyone," Grace said. "I hope the team can regroup and be successful in the tourna­ment." 
Grace knows that at least one player will be giving I00 percent at center midfield. 
• I 

---------------~ 

-------~------~--------­
The Observer 
Thr Obwrvrr/Ocbbh: Buchanon 

Fifth-year senior nosetackle Mike Kiernan (99) of the Notre Damefootball team bas mlf!T'Come a great deal ofadversity to play a big role in the Irish defense this season. Eric Scheuerman features Kleman in bts story at right. 
~...~--.....~...,~~~.....,....,~..,_..,_..,.,...~....,_s..,_..,_....,~,·····..,....,-..,.....,..,_~-...~....,_~)l 
I  
Attention: Sophomore and Junior  
Accounting Majors  
The Controller's Office ofthe Student Activities  ffi  
Board has openings for various positions.  ffi  
Don't miss this great opportunity to do  ~  
~.  something with your major as well as fill out  ;~  
~  your resume.  ]  
~  Ifyou are interested, call Jack Gallagher  ffi  
~  a_t 239-7673 Monday thru Friday  ~  
~  between 8:30am ­ 4:15pm  ~  

~.~,~~~~::::::~:::~:~~::~~~~~~~~ 

Friday, October 11, 1985 -page 9 

Football player overcomes injuries 
Nosetackle Kiernan ready to play 
ByERICSCHEUE~ 
Sports Writer 
The last five years certainly have 
been filled with ups and downs for 
the Notre Dame football program. 
Lost in the shuffie, however, have 
been the ups and downs offifth·year 
nosetackle Mike Kiernan. 
The 6-2, 252-pound Kiernan, from Highland Heights, Ky., arrived at Notre Dame in the fall of 1981, one of head coach Gerry Faust's -first group ofrecruits. 
"1 was pretty heavily recruited by Kentucky, as well as Ohio State, Purdue, Michigan State and Tennes· see," said Kiernan. "But I made up my mind that ifCoach Faust decided to give me a scholarship I was going to come here. This whole area was really excited about coach Faust being here, and 1thought that it was really going to be something big. 
"On the other side of it, I also looked at Notre Dame from the academic standpoint, because I knew that I'd always have something to fall back on." 
In that freshman season, Kiernan saw action in the last five games of the year, missing a varsity letter by only two minutes. Only Mike Gann played more minutes among the freshmen at the line positions. 
"Coach Faust called me into his office during freshman year and said he was really pleased that he had decided to give me a scholarship," said Kiernan. "He said he was really looking forward to me playing the next year." 
Unfortunately, Kiernan would be unable to play in either his sop­homore or junior season. In February of his freshman year, he tore two ligaments in his left knee while playing in a pick-up basketball game. 
"1 went to plant my foot to block a shot," said Kiernan, "and my leg just caved in under me. Mike Larkin was running behind me and he said it was the weirdest thing he ever saw." 
The injury put him in a cast for the next two months, and forced him to use crutches for two weeks after that. 
"After I got off the cast and off the crutches, my leg was nothing but flab," Kiernan said. "So they had me do isometric exercises three times a day and range-of-motion exercises 
The SAB Presents: 
l Bus to O'Hare Airport 
ILeave Main Circle ' Fri. Oct. 18 6pm
$10 

Sat. Oct. 19 6pm 
Tues. Oct. 15 at SAB Record Store 


•

• SUMMER PROGRAMS
•

• ND-SMC STUDENTS 
• 

: L()N[)()till 13th Annual Program R()t\1E 
: May21-June20 .@i'4Junel5-Ju/yl4 
• T,.,in lre...d TnaJelitfnmc:e
•
•
• 


: Courses in biology, business, history, Italian 
: music, sociology, and theatre ~ 
: Informational Meeting /~~~. : Oct. 14 /(t~·. 
• Carroll Hall (SMC), 7p.m. I.::!J ~ ··~
•

• previous student9, slides, andpizza • ­
• For further Info. call • Prof.A.R.Biack 4460 or 272~3726 
'····························· 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
: 
• • 
Sports Briefs 
The ND field hockey team will play twic(: on the road this weekend. The Irish will meet Central Michigan today at 4 p.m., and they will play Eastern Michigan tomorrow at 11 a.m. -Tbe Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will be meeting tonight at 10 p.m. at the Slush Club. All members are required to attend and bring checkbooks. -Tbe Observer 
The ND Rugby Club will play host to the University ofChicago tomorrow at noon on Stepan Field. -Tbe Observer 
Prospective ND basketballwalk-onswill 
try out for the men's team on Tuesday from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Anyone who is interested should report to the ACC auxiliary gym ready to play at 7:45 p.m. on that day. Call Coach Kilcullen in the basketball office (239-5337) for more information.-Tbe Observer 
Prospective ND women's basketball 
walk-ons will try out for the team on Wednesday from 8:30p.m. to 10 p.m. Anyone who is interested should report to the ACC auxiliary gym ready to play on that day. -Tbe Observer 
The ND junior class softball festival has been res­cheduled for today at 4 p.m. on White Field. All juniors are invited to attend and cheer on their classmates. The food should be pretty good, too. -The Observer 
A freshman swimming meet wm be hetd by 
NVA on Tueday at 7 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Building. Hall representatives must submit a list ofparticipants to Coach Welch in the Rock by Mond'ly. Divers must provide a list of dives before the meet. Call welch at 2 39-704 2 or 2 39-51 00 for more information. ­
The Observer 
Tennis 
continuedfrompage 12 
provide some much needed ex­perience. 
"On paper, it looks like we should have a pretty good team," says Fal­lon, who is coaching his 30th varsity team. "But I've been around long enough to realize that you've got to wait and see how they perform on the court. That's why this weekend is important for us to see ifthe fresh­men are as good as we had hoped. Also, you stimulate the upperclas­smen to get their act together." 
This weekend, Fallon will be 
going with freshmen Brian Kalbas of 
Carlisle, Penn. and Tim Carr of Mil­
waukie, Ore., in number-one and 
number-two singles. Sophomores 
Dan Walsh and Paul Daggs will play 
in the second and third spots, while 
freshman Dave ReiterofRichardson, 
Tex., and senior captainjoe Nelligan 
will round out the list for the Irish. 
In doubles, Nelligan and freshman 
Tony Cahill will start in the top 
singles spot for Notre Dame. A Carr­
Reiter team will go from the second 
spot, while Walsh and Daggs will 
make up the third unit. 
"All of these guys are really 
anxious to play," says Fallon. 
"Nobody is secure of his position 
right now, and as a result of this, 
they're all in pretty good shape and 
working real hard. 
"To give you some idea as to how 
it worked out," continues Fallon, 
"our captain, joe Nelligan, is cur­
rently in sixth place. But this is a 
little misleading too because I think 
what happened to the upperclas­
smen is that they didn't believe me 
when I told them that we had some 
good freshmen coming. As a result, 
they didn't get quite ready to go." 
Using three freshmen and two 
sophomores, however, in starting 
spots may result in a slow start for 
Notre Dame. But this weekend's ac­
tion should do a good job in intro­
ducing the rookie players to the 
college game. 
"As far as the freshmen are con­
cerned, our weakness would seem 
to be a little lack of college ex­
perience," notes Fallon. "They were 
very good in high school and a lot of 
them played in the junior circuits. 
But college is a little tougher game. 
You have bigger and stronger guys, 
and the serve and volly game is more 
important. 
"We're eager to see what happens, 
and this weekend should give us a 
pretty good clue as to the type of 
team that we have." 
The Irish will exhibit their new 
lineup tomorrow against Evansville 
at 9 a.m. and against lllinios State at 2 
p.m. Sunday. 

Friday, Octob~r 11, 1985-page 10 
Gelfman confident about weekend 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 

It may seem that Notre Dame women's tennis coach Michele Gelfman is a tad overconfident about this weekend's Northstar Con­ference Championships in St. Louis, Mo. To those who have followed the fall tennis season, however, it is easy to se(: why th(: first y(:ar coach b(:li(:V(:S so strongly in th(: capabiliti(:S ofh(:r play(:rs. 
"W(: ar(: going to bring home all th(: hardwar(:," says Gelfman. "W(: are going to win and W(: do not want to los(: a single gam(: in doing it. " 
From the very first match of th(: season it has been apparent that th(: 9-1 Irish would hav(: an easy tim(: of it against most of th(: t(:ams on th(:ir autumn schedule. Since the opening . match in which Notre Dame defeated both Marquette and 
Evansville 9-0 while only losing a competive and difficult this week so tinue their string ofvictories. 
handful ofgames, the Irish have con-·-------------------111111111!!•----..
tinued to win, usually convincingly, over their weaker opponents. The only exceptions have been 
the match against the University of Illinois and the Midwest Intercol­legiate Championships. Against 11­
lmms, the Insh suffered thetr on! 
• College Day
• 

•• 9 a.m. ~ to • • 
•• 9p.m• : Capello's : 
• Hair cataad blow d~
• $8.00
with •tadeatI.D. oaly
•
•

e CaD 255-1001 toda11 513 E. McKlaley e SO YOU WON'T MISS Our Miehawaka 

Graduate Student presents 
DUSTIN HOlTMAN 
IIJioolsie 
Friday, Oct.11 and Saturday, Oct.12 7:00,9:15,11:30 En ineerin Auditorium $1.50 
*********************** 
OlitobtrftGtt 
•Comtt ~~ •Com&. facuft~·• 
•COfntl. £orJy,l•
ABratt EurDinner ~pccial Authrntic.. C:Uman Food, M~t ~ Ba.tl.r fle•lGtrman Oof~~Nh Band/ 
Friday,Ottobu11~ 
6pm-2am Alumni61niorCiub $.3CJ:Ntr charge 


• FJCEE GLAS~ MUGJ • 
tuhile ~JPP.h(l~ la~l:. 
**********~************ 
• 
Oct. •
•
16 •
•
•
•
•
• 
team loss ofthe season in a very tight match that was decided by a matter of points. In the championships at Northwestern, Notre Dame faced its stiffest competition of the year. Al­though the Irish encountered some of the top Division I teams, Susie Panther, Tammy Schmidt and the doubles squad of Mary Colligan and lzzy O'Brien all played extremely well to prove that the Notre Dame tennis program is on its way up. 
The only thing Gelfman is afraid of this weekend is a letdown after the Northwestern tournament and last weekend's Irish Invitational, where the competition was also especially tough. She says that the team is playing superb tennis right now, and is trying to prevent the Irish from al­lowing the level of play to slip be­cause of the inferior skills of the opposing players. 
"I tried to make the practices there would be no letdown ofinten­sity this weekend, says Gelfman. "It's not easy to stay on top ofyour game against weaker competition." 
The confident Notre Dame men­tor will be counting on team captain Panther and experienced seniors Colligan and O'Brien to help prepare the Irish emotionally for this weekend. She also expects sop­homore Michelle Dasso, juniors joAnne Biafore and Schmidt, and freshman Natalie Illig to do very well. 
It should be an easy weekend for the Irish considering the level ofthe competition. Next year, however, things will not be so easy because Gelfman plans to strengthen the fall schedule by including more Divi­sion I schools. 
For the present, Gelfman knows her Irish squad should take advantage of the situation and con­
• 
~ 
mN~ HAWAII 

SUn +onn·lrQ SQ!rv-o. 
,~  1'  U  I  
~~ oo  J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka  

BE A GHOST THIS HALLOWEENI 
Call about our Halloween special 277-7026 
P---------------­
1 
I 

I A 
I

I 233-3964 
1 October Feast I
1 I
$5buysyouI a large pizza with I I 2 Items with this ad.
I I
"We're Talkin' Quality" 
~~511 Portage Ave One block north ofMartin's 1
1 

FRIDAY NITE OKTOBERFEST Beer & Brflt Specifll !!! 
~~~C3L~-----------------------------------------F·r-id_a_y_,_o_c.to•b•e•r•l•l•,-19_8_S P_a~g~e-1_1
Bloom County 
W!'K! PtJO~EP/ Y~ PfK)M6J IJYA CIMtfl IV!Z/. AU 86/JI.(Jk)J/ 
11J SM11HS?etN6/! 
')\/ 

Zeto 

ACROSS 1 Hold firmly 6 Southern 
constellation 10 Dawn goddess 13 Tanker 14 Continue 15 Land measure 16 Surpass by a 
single degree 19 Sugar suffix 20 Songbird 21 -as the 
hills 22 Whitman or Disney 23 Baseball's "Schoolboy" 25 Benevolent 
Xmas per. 28 Be on the way to success 
32 Santiago's 
land 33 Is sullen 34 Customary rd. 35 Depend 36 Henning and 
McClure 37 Burden 38 21 for one 39 Extra Inning 40 Lose control 41 Keep company 43 Beauty 44 Slsterof 
Charles 45 Rise 46 Wldeopen 49 Painter Duly 51 West 54 Be self· 
evident 57 Take-leave 
It 58 Helper: abbr. 59 Actress Berger 60-pros 61 Treaty acronym 62 Despised 
DOWN 1 Up-to-date 2 Sp. rivers 3 Century plant 4 Wash. bigwig 5 Introduction 
50•. so urru .,~ t~frl Ff{(}(t1 f((f?~ ON I IWJNT MEAlS CF IC£ C~I/M / €Nf7t£SS /J(/8!Jl.e MTH5 / ~Of U.rJ5e CrA'1€ H.ai1€N ~PING t£T'5 
Me f'at£/J Gf?IIPeS... 
\ 


All Rights Reserved 

Yesterday's Solution 
6 Representative 7 Mllitarygp. 8 Experience 9 Unit 
10 Reverbt~rate 
11 Mr. Roberts 
12 Transmit 
15 Cruising 
17 Cheat 
18 Singer from Chicago 
22 Crafty 
24 Chooses 
25 Scrawny one 
26 On -(moving) 
27 White and Blue 
28 Having joint 
-discomfort 
29 Frog sound 
30 Day's march 40 Stew 

31 Passover 42 Swinish beast highlight 43 18 Dand 
33 Plnetype Boudreau 
36 Acheson or 45 Influenced 52 Before: pref. Rusk 46 Once more to 53 Drat! 
37 Ring Snuffy Smith 55 Chin. river 
39 Belief 47 Attend 56 Affirmative 

~ 1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc 
··H·H€lf'.? NO, NO .•. JHI/(I:J 
}VGI lfJIV'T li'16rtr. 
MMN,.. 
I
"' 
10/11 I 85 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

~ 1985 Un1versa1 Press 
ADVICE 
5¢ 
• DR. LOCY VArJ PELT 
Kevin Walsh 

The bride, best man and ushers of Frankenstein 
Campus 
FRIDAY, OCT. 11 

•12:00 
P.M. · Live Band, West Entrance of LaFortune, Sponsored by Anti-Apartheid Net· work 

•12:
15 P.M. · Lecture, "The Civil Rights Movement: Past and Present", Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., University of Notre Dame, Room 124 Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns 

•4:00 
P.M. · Rally Agalnst Apartheid, Administration Building Steps, Sponsored by Anti·Apartheid Network 

•4:00 
P.M. · Softball Tournament, White Field, Sponsored by Junior Class, $5.00/team 

•7:00 
P.M. -Lecture, "U.S. Response to Apar· theid: From the Campus to the Congress", Professor Mary Frances Berry, U.S. Civil Rights Commissioner, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Anti-Apartheid Network 

•7:00, 
9:15, and 11:30 P.M · SAB Film, "Tootsie", Engineering -Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1.SO 

•7:30 
P.M.· 9:00P.M.-Meeting, Charismatic Prayer Meeting, Keenan/Stanford Chapel, Sponsored by The People of Praise Club of Notre Dame/St. Mary's 

•7:30 
P.M. ·Volleyball, Notre Dame vs. But· ler, ACC 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's Caribbean BBQ Chicken French Dip BeefStew over Bisquits Fettucine Carbonara Breaded Cod Cheese and Mushroom Omelet Beefand Cheddar Cheese Sandwich 
L.l. Club Bus 
Notre Dame to Hempstead 
Leaves N.D.: Friday Oct.18 7pm 1L Leaves L.l.: Sunday Oct.27 7am 
rl~
Slln up~~~ ealllnl Pete or Paul
I

~--------------atZ448-------------/ 
\JJ~EtJ: 
.............
Round Trip_____$76.00 
One Way $45.00, 
•7:30 
P.M. and 9:45P.M.· Friday Night Film Series, "Diva", Annenberg Auditorium 

•8:00 
P.M. -New York Stage Production, "Gypsy", O'Laughlin Auditorium, $10.00 

•8:00 
P.M. · Cider Stomp, Center for Social Concerns 

•8:30 
P.M.· Russian Comedian, Yakov Smir· noff, Stepan Center, Sponsored by Student Ac· tivities Board, $3.00 

SATURDAY, OCT. 11 

•7:00 
P.M. · Volleyball, Notre Dame vs. Illinois State, ACC 

•7:00, 
9:15, and 11:30 P.M -SAB Film, "Tootsie", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Jl.50 

•8:30 
P.M.· Around the Comer, "The Best of the SO's", Alumni Senior Club, 

•9:00 
P.M. · 2:00A.M. · Semi-Formal Dance, Stepan Center, Sponsored by Black Cultural Arts Council, S4.00 

SUNDAY, OCT. 13 

•4:00 
P.M. · Concert, Audubon String Quar· tet, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Department of Music 


· •7:00 P.M. · Mass, Stanford/Keenan Chapel, Sponsored by Junior Class 
~---------­
Friday, October 11, 1985 -page 12
S~orts 

(Chicago) for its fourth straight victory. The Irish will go for five in a row tonight at the ACC at 7:30 againstButler. Chuck Ehnnan details all theaction in his story to the right. 
Irish narrowly beat Loyola (Chicago) 
By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 

When you're bad you're bad. But when you're bad and you can still win, then you breathe a sigh ofrelief and take what you can get. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team snuck past Loyola (Chicago) on Wednesday night in an upside-down sort of match that seesawed to its eventual conclusion. When all was said and done, the Irish stood in the winner's circle, beating the Lady Ramblers 9-15, 15-3, 16-14, 13-15, and 15-11. 
"We played horribly and won," said Notre Dame coach Art Lambert. 

"That's a switch for us. We ab­Art Lambert solutely should have won the match ranked No. 20 in the latest coaches' in the fourth game, but I think the poll. team felt that it was a charitable or­
The Irish now have won four in a ganization, and seeing Loyola as the row and have raised their record to 
home team, decided to extend 6-8. Lambert just hopes the upswing charity to them. I know we can't go 
in the quality of play can continue. on winning if we continue playing "Butler and Illinois State are both like this, though." excellent teams," notes Lambert. "If 
Notre Dame better begin playing 
we play like we did against Loyola well soon. A blockbuster weekend when we play Butler, then we're in ofvolleyball action begins tonight at for a long night. And ifwe don't play 
the ACC as the Irish face conference well against Illinois State, then we're foe Butler. Then on Saturday night in for an even longer night come they will face Iilinois State, who is Saturday." 
Makes the grades on and offthe field 
ND Baseball's Loughran is a student-athelete 
By EDJORDANICH fielder stroked a .370 average bat­
"I'm looking for a little more con­With a fair arm and decent speed,Sports Writer ting in the middle of a the Notre 
sistency, and I'll work at that along Loughran has settled into the out­Dame lineup last year. According to 
with strength and running during field position after being a first team To the casual Notre Dame fan, Loughran this success at the plate our workouts in the ACC," he says. all-stater as a pitcher and center 
names like John Krimm, Bob Burger, was the result ofwinter work, and he "The fall has been kind of a downer fielder in high school. He was not Gary Novak, andJohn Loughran may 
hopes that a similar off-season record-wise, but its an experimental recruited by Notre Dame, and al­not ring a bell. To those fans who program will result in more good 
stage and it has made me aware of most attended Boston College, but recognize the balance and dedica­hitting when the snow melts. 
the talent our team has and its poten­the better baseball program of the tion of an excellent student-athlete, "I'm not too happy with my per­
tial for becoming a solid, winning Irish was a deciding factor in his however, these men represent a formance at the plate right now, and team." decision. This year, his dedication high level ofachievement. it just seems that the whole team is A finance major from Stamford, has been rewarded by a partialKrimm and Burger were football not hitting," says Loughran. "It's Conn., Loughran has had a 3.7 GPA scholarship.
Academic All-Americans at Notre frustrating, but when we hit like we in each semester at Notre Dame. He Dame while Novak earned the did at the end oflast year, the hitting said the cliches about discipline, After the Irish end their season honor in basketball. John Loughran becomes contagious. It's when 
time management, and priorities are with a doubleheader at Valparaisois the latest Irish athlete to be named we're cold, we can't score runs and essential to his student life. These, Sunday, Loughran plans to spend to the Academic All-American team. beat the teams we should." 
coupled with baseball, have really some time at home watching the His accomplishments on the Besides being an Academic All­given him a sense ofachievement at World Series over fall break. Then,
John Loughran 

baseball diamond and in the clas­American, Loughran was on the All­Notre Dame. he will return to start workouts. sroom put him on the academic Midwestern Collegiate Conference makes the most of average natural "I was a walk-on whose first squad's second team after last second team as a left fielder. This fall, ability. He had a heckuva year last season was not too great as far as Coming off a good year, John spring's season. though, Loughran has seen action in spring, and if last winter is any in­playing time and injuries go," says Loughran is excited about playing 
Loughran helped lead Head right field, and Gallo is leaning dication of what conditioning does, Loughran. "But I worked hard that baseball for Notre Dame in the Coach Larry Gallo's Irish to a strong towards playing him at that position he'll have a good season come winter and won the job last spring. I spring and excited about the team's finish last season and, despite a slow in the spring. March, April, and May." still have to work hard to keep the potential over all. In the tradition of start this fall, is looking forward to "John is a coach's type of Loughran describes himself as a job and that makes tp.e want to do as previous Academic All-Americans, another successful campaign after player,"says Gallo. "He gets the job line-drive hitter who has occasional well or better than last year even Loughran will take the field in the the winter layoff. The junior out-done, works extremely hard, and he streaks and mini-slumps. more." spring as a true student athlete. 
Notre Dame men's tennis team will host 14th Irish Fall Tournament 
By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL sophomores and a senior. tion. With the present lack ofan ade­Sports Writer "Last year for the first time in 
quate indoor facility, the invitational about eight or nine years, we fell un­has become a key part of the Notre While the Notre Dame men's ten­der the 20-win mark at 19-12," says Dame schedule. nis team will not face regular season Fallon. "This year, we have four "We've been trying for years to competition until March, they will freshmen who at least look good on 
play more matches in the fall, ex­host their 14th Irish Fall Invitational paper." 
plains Fallon. "The weather is better, this weekend. This year's invitational will boast there's less academic pressure for all 
The Irish will be looking to the same competition as last year's concerned, and most of the fellows recapture the fall classic after losing event with 1984 runner-up, Oral have been playing all summer so it the crown last year. In 1984, Notre Roberts, now having a 1985 Mid­
makes sense to do something in the Dame finished third in a field offour west Cities Championship under its fall." teams as Illinois State took first. belt. In the season to come, the Irish For the Irish, the main purpose of This year, however, there will be will be looking to duel with Oral 
this invitational will be to get a look many new faces in the lineup for the Roberts for the 1986 conference 
at the team that they have and to see Irish as a talented group offreshmen 
championship as they will par­in which areas they will have to will provide Notre Dame with great ticipate in that spring tourney as an direct their efforts before the 1986 depth and ability. Evidence of this associate member of the con­
season rolls around. In addition, talent can be found in head coach 
ference. with the youthful players that Fallon Tom Fallon's group of starters for Because of the weather in the 
has on the squad, this event will this weekend. The roster includes Midwest, the Irish use their annual three freshmen to go along with two event to get a feel for their competi-see TENNIS, page 10 




