-
-~ 
Student Senate -page 8 

thl' intkpl'ndt·nt .,tudl'nt nt·w,papn 'lT\ ing notrt damt· and 'Olin! 111011") ·, 

Body of American arrives for autopsy at end of hijacking 
AMoclated Press bought the tickets for the hijackers 
in Genoa, the Achille Lauro's home 

ROME · The Achille Lauro ended port. The other was said to have left its odyssey of terror yesterday, the liner in Alexandria, Egypt, the steaming into its home port of last stop before the hijacking Oct. 7 Genoa where two more Palestinians offPort Said. were charged in the killing of an Investigators who boarded the 
Amt·rican passenger during the liner as it rounded Sicily and headed ship's hijacking. for home questioned Capt. Gerardo 
'11te body of the dead American De Rosa and at least five crew mem­was flown to Rome for an autopsy, 
bers they hoped could shed light on Klinghoffer's murder. 

whik the Italian government faced The ship's company, Flotta Lauro, c.:ollapse over its handling of the said 313 crew members and 19 pas­hijack affair. 
<iennaro Calahn:se De Feo, chief sengers were aboard for the trip to prosecutor in <ienoa, said .Ul seven 
Genoa from Port Said, where the Palestinians ac:cused in la~t week's 
hijackers surrendered to Palestinian negotiators Oct. 9 and were takenhijal·king of the cruise liner had into Egyptian custody. 

heen charged with kidnapping and 
murder in slaying of Leon Klinghof­Egypt granted the pinites safe con­fer. the American tourist whose duct out of the country because, hody was found Monday along the President Hosni Mubarak said, he Syrian coast. did not know at the time that one of 
Prime Minister Bettino Craxi's the passengers had been killed. Navy l'Oalition, one of the longest-lived F-14s from the aircraft carrier Italian governments since World 
Saratoga intercepted the EgyptairWar II, split over how the piracy Boeing 737. 

ca~ wa~ handled and appeared Also on the plane was Mohammed ready to fall. Defense Minister Abbas, a PLO official who Italian offi­Giovanni Spadolini's Republican cials say mediated an end to theParty quit the 26-month-old hijacking. The United States said heCabinet, angered by Craxi's refusal directed the piracy and demanded to detain a Pl.O official the United he be held for extradition. 
States accused of masterminding the Craxi's government did not stop
hijacking. Klinghoffer's body drifted to 
Abbas from leaving for Yugoslavia, shore Monday near the Syrian port 
provoking U.S. outrage and con­demnation by Spadolini, the defense

ofTart us. Rq>orts from the captain and ot· 
minister. Abbas later left Yugoslavia, hers on the Achille Lauro said the 
and his present whereabouts are un­Palestinian pirates shot the 69-year­
known. In Washington, Atty. Gen. Edwinold New Yorker, who was confined Meese said the llnited States wasto a wheelchair, when the ship was "making as much headway as weoff Tartus Oct. 8 and threw him possibly can" in tracking down Ab­overboard. 

bas, but he did not elaborate.

State Department spokesmen in 
Wa~hington said Klinghoffer ap­Spadolini has criticized Italy'sparently had been shot twice, one in Middle East policy as devised bythe head and once in the neck. Craxi and Foreign Minister Giulio 
The seven men charged include Andreotti, especially their willing­the four who took control ofthe ship ness to deal with the Palestine fcjr two days, a Palestinian arrested Liberation Organization. The 
in (ienoa before the cruise began defense minister said he learned of there Oct. .'\, and two others the Abbas' release from television news prosecutor described as "fugitives" reports. 
but did not identify. He and two other Republican Italian authorities took the four al­ministers resigned from the 30­leged hijackers into custody after member Cabinet, which appeared to 
U.S. navy jets forced an Egyptian air­doom Craxi's coalition. The Socialist llner carrying them to land early last prime minister said, however, that Friday at a NATO air base in Sicily. he had no intention of resigning im­
News reports in Italy say one of mediately and would take the the fugitives is believed to have government's case to Parliament. 

Tbe Ita/tan cruise liner· ''Acbllle Lauro," hijacked for Italy after its week-long ordeal. Story at left byfour Palestinian gunmen on last Monday, sails 
Recent break-ins at student lots prompt security to issue warnings 
break-ins, a resident of Dillon Hall Despite the recent Increase In the reported a theft of about $1 000 number of car break-ins, Rakow did 
JAMES BRENNAN 
NewsStt~.ff 
worth of goods -mainly camera not predict a rise in crime during the 
Five cars in the student parking equipment, jewelry and clothes. The October break next week. He said lots D-2 and C-2 were broken into incidents in the parking lots and Dil­that previous October breaks have between October 12 and 14, ac­lon Hall appear to be unrelated. not been marked by Increased cording to Notre Dam(: Security According to Rakow, the parking crime. 
Director Rex Rakow. lots are included in the regular night Nevertheless, Rakow says that 
patrols by two security cars and two 
normal security measures wiU be ex­The thefts occurred at night in the officers on foot. In addition, a stu­

tended. Another car will be added to poorly lit back areas of the parking dent lot patrol checks the parking 
the nightly patrols and dorms will be lots. No suspects have been ap­Jots during the day. 
locked during the break. Keys will prehended. Rakow suggested that students in be given to those students who are 

the parking lots should check their 
staying on campus.

The thieves, believed to be youths cars from time to time and should be between 1 7 and 24 years old, stole on the lookout for any suspicious As a final security measure, Rakow stereo radios and cassette decks people or activity. If students see advised those students who stay be· from the cars. The dashboards of at anything suspicious, they should im­hind to keep a watchful eye out for least three newer cars were mediately contact security. Rakow shady individuals especially damaged by the culprits, according also advised students to park their juveniles in their dorm. Any suspl· to Rakow. cars in the more brightly lit areas of cious characters should be reported 
In addition to the recent car the parking lot at night. to security, he said. 
Suspension of civil rights sparks conflict in Nicaragua 
AMoclated Press 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua -Opposi­tion leaders said yesterday the suspension of civil rights will inten­sify the war-like atmosphere in this leftist-ruled nation and may en­courage support for ll.S.-backed rebels. 
President Daniel Ortega an­nounced Tuesday night that free expression, public assembly and the right to strike had been suspended because of "brutal aggression" by the United States and "its internal allies" against the Sandlnista regl'ine. 
Ilis decree subjects Nicaraguans to Inspection of mail and search and seizure without warrant. Authorities have no obligation to relea'ie in­formation about those arrested. 
News media must submit their material to the Interior Ministry's director of communications before publication or broadcast. Similar rules have not affected foreign jour­nalists in the past, but the scope of the current decree was not clear im­mediately. 
La Prensa, the main opposition newspaper, had been required previously to submit material dealing with "military affairs and the nation's economic relations." 
Ortega said in a speech broadcast nationally, "In response to the ter­rorist politics ofthe United States ... internal pawns of imperialism sup­ported by some political parties, news media outlets and rdigious In­stitutions have redoubled their ac­tions to sabotage the defc~nse forces ofour nation. 

"It is a fundamental condition for the lifting of these (XCeptional measures that the imperialist aggres­sion against Nicaragua be effectively stopped." 
In Washington, Whnte House spokesman Larry Speake~> called Or­tega's action "a clear example of the Sandinistas tightening their contrQI of their country by violating basic freedoms and refusing Ito tolerate dissent" that rertlects "gmwing dis­illusionment with the Sandinista regime by large parts of the popula­tion and the Sandinistas' tear oftheir own people." 
"These individuals have trampled on civil liberties as very few countries have done in the past," he said yesterday. 
The United States backs Nicaraguan rebels, known as Con­teas, who operate from bases In Hon­duras and southern Nicaragua. 
The Sandinistas overthrew rightist President Anastasio Somoza in July 1979 and suspended most rights and constitutional guarantees when they declared a state of emer­gen<;y in March 1982. 
Ortega's government lifted the suspension in most cases shortly before national elections last November, when hundreds of foreign journalists and observers were In Nicaragua. 
Erick Ramirez, head of the Social Christian Party of Nicaragua; said yesterday that the government ac­tion "polarizes even more the situa­tion in Nicaragua, ends the few guarantees the Nicaraguan people have, increases the tension and jus­tifies the increase of the counter­revolution." 
Justice Minister Rodrigo Reyes insisted that the decree "preserves the intrinsic rights of the people, such as the right to life and physical integrity." 
Ortega did not mention specific military action by the Contras that may have prompted the suspension ofrights. 



The Observer Thursday, October 17, 1985 ---'-page 2 

In Brief 

'Warmonger' perception of ROTC 
Weapon searches have been halted at Detroit's public schools pending a federal court hearing as to whether they are legal, the American Civil Uberties Union says. ACLU and school officials 


distorts commitment of the ranks 
reached an informal agreement concerning the searches in late Sep­
tember before U.S. district Judge Avern Cohn. The ACLU filed suit Sept. 1 7 on behalf of a female student who said she was unfairly patted down by a security officer. The suit argues that the random mass searches violate students' right to privacy. The checks began after a series of incidents in schools involving weapons. -AP 
Giant Strides in schooling since 194o "have 
made the American people the most educated in the world," but the quality of U.S. schools sagged in the 1970s, a Census Bureau study concluded yesterday. The special demographic study by two Census analysts also found evidence that the "return" on a college education ... the edge in earnings that college graduates have over high school graduates ... is growing again after shrinking in the 1970s. "Less than 45 years ago ... a solid majority of young adults were either high school dropouts or had never gone beyond elementary school," said the report. "Today ... high school dropouts have been reduced to a small minority." In 1940, only 38 percent ofthose ages 25 t~ 29 had attained a high school diploma, and a mere six percent had college 
degrees. -AP 
Merv Griffin surprised actor Robert Wagner by honoring him as the 25,000th guest star of his talk show, and Shelley Berman, who was the first guest in 1962, was on hand to share in the fes­tivities. After the taping of the show Tuesday for broadcast Oct. 24, the studio audience helped Griffin and Wagner eat a chocolate cake in the shape of25,000. "I've got my hand right in the icing," laughed Wagner as he cut the first piece. Griffin fed him the first bite, and Wagner ended up with green frosting on his nose. "I never thought it would go on this long," said Griffin, 60, who launched the show in October I 962. -AP 
A well-used tennis racket donated by Vice President George Bush will be among the items auctioned offby the Colorado Republican Party during its fourth annual auction. Ronald and Nancy Reagan sent two framed recipes, signed by the first lady. Bush's racket needs restringing, but that is part of its charm, said Slyvia Dennis, coordinator for the Oct. 26 auction. -AP 
Little Richard, the '50s rock star who turned to religion in the '70s, was recoveringfrom surgery for a broken leg suffered in a car crash last week. "He's in stable condition. He's alert and came through surgery very well," Cedars-Sinai Medical Center spokesman Ron Wise said after the operation Tuesday. The 52-year-old musician-turned-evangelist broke his right leg after his rented sports car crashed Oct. 8. He was driving with a suspended license, deputies said. Blood tests revealed no trace of alcohol. -AP 
Ann Landers, marking the 30th anniversary writing her column yesterday says she's learned to take readers' problems seriously without becoming a Miss Lonelyhearts. "There are problems today that no one could have predicted 30 years ago," Miss Landers, whose real name is Eppie Lederer, said. "AIDS Js an ex­ample. Also, the proliferation ofdivorce-all over the world." But the most frequent question remains,"What's the matter with me? I'm so lonely ... How can I make friends or fit in or do better?" In her column yesterday she thanked her 85 million readers for their loyalty and noted she has written 10,950 columns since Oct. 16, 1955. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Young Democrats of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are meeting tonight at 7 in the little Theater ofLaFortune. All current members and those interested are welcome to atttend. -The 
Observer 


Weather 
Cloud nine is in store for this after­noon. Clouds will increase with the high reach­ing 65 to 70. Mild tonight with a 60 percent chance of showers. Low around 55. Mostly cloudy and mild tomorrow with a 70 percent chance ofshowers and the high around 65AP 

Design Editor................. Mark McLaughlin Design Assistant.................. Alice Kroeger LayoutStaff..............~ .......... Patty Williams 
Jim Riley Typeseners .................... Becky Gunderman 

The Observer. 
Chuck Papandtea 
Slotman........................................... Phil Wolf The Obtoerver (USPS ~99 2-4000) is News Editor........................ Maty Heilmann published Monday through Friday and CopyEditor....................... Ann Kaltenbach on home football Saturdays, except Sports Copy Editor......... Dennis Corrigan during exam and vacation periods. The: Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ Doug Hasler Obtoervc:r is published by the studentsof Viewpoint Layout................. Carol Brown the University of Notre Dame and Saint Features Copy Editor.......-. .......... Ed Nolan 
Maty's College. Subscriptions may be Features Layout.................... Maria Groner 
purchased for $30 per year ( S20 per se· ND Day Editor................... Sharon Emmite 
mester) by writing The Obtoerver, P.O. SMC Day Editor................. Maty Jean Sully 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46~~6. Ad Design .................. Maty Carol Creadon 
The Obtoerver is a member of The Joan Wrappe 
Associated Press. All reproduction Peter Georges 
rights are reserved. Photographer ............ Maureen Bachmann 

Sure you need a job. And a way to pay for school. A challenge. An adventure. Pay and benefits. But are you willing to risk your life or take some­body else's in order to get it? 
This excerpt, taken from a Philadelphia draft counsel­ing agency publication, epitomizes the sentiment many students on the Notre Dame campus hold toward the collegiate ROTC programs. And, until recently, I was one ofthese students. 
I, like many others, voiced the usual complaints about being awakened by early-morning Navy jogs around the lake, engaged in the usual "baby-killer" rhetoric, maintained that "Really Only Tuition Counts." ROTC was an alien organization to me, and I irrespon­sibly and rather smugly decided that I had no desire to investigate the motivations behind the scholarships. I categorized all ROTC cadets as warmongers or as military Faustian figures, selling their souls to Caspar Weinberger for four years of tuition. 
And then one of my best 

seem to preclude the idea of friends joined Notre Dame's engaging in warfare. I myself Army ROTC, and my con­am such a liberal that Gai-y ceptions altered radically. Trudeau seems a virtual 
What would possess Barry Goldwater by com­anyone to rise at 4:30a.m., parison. I think, however, don BDU's (Battle Dress that the very fact that I Uniforms, or camoullage profess liberalism implies fatigues to the uninitiated), that I should be receptive to smear mud and paint on all philosophies, if not to their faces, and crawl agree with them, at least to around at Green Field while listen to them. "the enemy" scoured the It took seeing the ROTC surrounding woods looking program in the experiences for "prisoners" whom they of my friend, however, for would interrogate merci­me to acknowledge that it lessly? The answer must be encompassed more than my more complex than simply philistinism gave it credit money or the misanthropic for.
I .-17 
desire to annihilate mankind. 
And it is. 

In the case of my friend, the motivation was originally, and admittedly, the tantalizing prospect of knowing that she would no longer have to spend hours completing guaranteed student loan applications or 
working in the dining hall. (And as someone who has worked there, I can assure you that the mere possibility ofescaping is enough to compel one to hop the nearest tank to the ROTC Building and enlist). But as she became more involved with the ROTC program at Notre Dame, stronger motivations and deeper convic­tions surfaced. John Fitzgerald Kennedy said, "Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your­country," and my friend cites this philosophy as similar to her own. "It's a personal challlenge and an oppor­tunity to do things most people don't do. It's a sense of not just living in the United States, but of working for and being a real part ofthis country." 
··gQoweh~ fp~ aQQ OC(~agiotlg
I

531 N. Michigan St., ~ 
Come in and Browse 

327lincolnway . 232-3354

•....~~~.~!..~~.~~~~.~?.......1.1 : 
"I compared Paralegal programs and chose Roosevelt" • Largest ABA-approvc:d program in Illinois • Effective employment assistance-over 500 employers have hired Roosevelt graduates -• Choice of rime and location-Day and evening classes in the Loop, Arlington He1ghts • Diversified curriculum-specialize in Litigation; Cor­porations; Estates, Trusts and Wills; Real Estate; Employee Benefits or Generalist • ILLINOIS STATE GUARANTEED STUDENT LOANS • RECRUITER ON CAMPUS ON Lisa Larabee For your copy of the Lawyer's Assistant Catalogue and an Legal Assistant invitation to the next information session in your area, Santa Fe Southern Pacific writeorcall: 3U-341-3882 The Lawyer1S Assistant Program In cooperation with The National Center for Paralegal Tratning 46 Roosevelt University N=<--------------------­430 S. Michigan A..,. Chicago IL 60605 Address --------------------------­City----------State----Zip--­-~ Home Phone ----­Business Phone•  




Mary Heilmann 
Assistant News Editor 

Knowing this, I find it disturbing that normally apat­hetic Notre Dame students heckle the Irish Ranger Company while they drill by Juday Creek, calling them "warmongers" and, on special occasions, "warpigs." 
"You can't take that seriously," my friend says, "but it's upsetting when you're giving your all for something and people so misunderstand your motives." 
Perhaps on a campus such as Notre Dame, one might be inclined to think that such attitudes are quite under­standable. The deeply-rooted convictions of Chris­
tianity in the student body 

There is an inscription above the doors of Sacred Heart Church which reads "God, Country, Notre Dame," and my friend com­mented "I don't think the three are incompatible." After seeing her sincere commitment to the ideals that the three embody, I don't either. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpoint page. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views of their authors and do not nec~ssarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Observer staff. 






The Observer Thursday, October 17, 1985-page 3 




t 
******************** 

CONGRATULATIONS ~ 
tITommy PowersIa 

~ of * 
~ 

~  
~  We.1..2RYou-Never Change  ~  
~ ~  (Honor Bright) The Dillon Swim Club  ,....­lt  

******************** 


.fulte Ann Basset and Harold Wilson enjoyed the 

Students question cost of phones 
ByJOHN FLORY Notre Dame students do, in fact, number of occupants, singles being SIQ/J rr?porter pay a business rate as opposed to a least economical. residential rate. Also, Hums listed the advantages 
A report concerning campus Ed Hums, assistant comptroller, Notre Dame students have over stu­phone billing for students was however, said that the administra· dents elsewhere. Since touch-tone compiled and submitted to Univer­tion has attempted to get a residen­phones were installed early in 1984, sity President Father Hesburgh this tial rate for students. Nevenheless, with the breakup of AT&T, long­month, according to Mike Jaeger, since Notre Dame is, at least In the distance services have become <:ampus Improvements coordinator eyes ofthe phone company, "a busi­available to students. The University for the student government. ness," the University was "not offers one such service, Clark 
'lbe report, prompted by student eligible for a (student) rate." Telecommunications, but allows feedback and compiled over the students to choose any service they
Hums added, however, that the 

course of about a week, includes wish.
students "have everything they need

fiRures that seem to indicate that Students at universities with
" in terms of phone service, and are

Notre Dame students pay a dis­rotary-dial phones don't have this
"on a par with other universities in 

proportionately higher amount for option. Long-distance calls are
Indiana."

phone use than do students ofother operator-assisted, and charges for 
large universities in Indiana, Includ­He elaborated by saying that some such service add up. 
ing Purdue and IU. of the figures are misleading, since Hums said the students really 
Jaeger added that these univer­there is a much higher proponion of aren't as disadvantaged as one might sities "were very helpful" in singles at Notre Dame than at other bellve, and he does't expe4:t the ad­providing these figures, "as was universities. The charge for a phone ministration to take any action on Notre Dame." line in a room is contingent upon the the matter. 

.Juniars. Seniar• Came Meet 






LlFE & CASUALTY 
Manday, Dct. 28--7:31Dp University Club 
L•t A•tna r•pr•••ntativ•• t•ll yau abaut aur aumm•r lnt•rn and p•rman•nt, full-tim• paaltiana in bath aur Hartfard, Ct. Ham• Dffic• and natianal 
fi•ld affic• lacatiana. 
ByAMY BAKER 

ing the students, will vote on the SID//Reporter proposal. 
Ifthe proposal is passed, the issue The construction of a bypass at to follow will be whether to build an the Intersection of U.S. 31 between overpass or an underpass. According 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's has to Donald Dc:drick, director ofNotre been proposed by Student Body Dame's physical plant, an underpass President Bill Healy and freshman 
would probably be less expensive Eric Wold. 
than an overpass, but an overpass An overpass or underpass has would be safer. been "tllscussed" with University 
"They can build an overpass, but President Father Theodore Hes­
the students have to be willing to burgh and Father Tyson, Vice Presi­climb the stairs, walk over and climb dent for Student Affairs, according to 
back down the stairs. There's no as­Healy. Mayor Parent and the state 
surance that a bypass would even be legislature have also been con­used," said Dc:drick. tacted. "We have to come up with facts "Ifa bypass Is built, Healy said, "at and figures, as well as show that least the students will have a choice there Is student suppon for this as to whether to usc It or U.S. 31." bypass, when we present the Healy favors an underpass be­proposal at the next Board of Trus­cause It would be easier to use and tees meeting on October 24," said says he realizes the need for safety 
Healy. measures within such a structure. "We can't afford to forget about According to Healy, there have been Kevin Hurley just because he has problems with people falling and gone home to Boston. It's important jumping off overpasses and with Icy that we fight to get safety measures conditions during ihe winter approved," Healy added. months. He and Wold are cor­
The proposal will also be brought responding with other universities before the Hall Presidents' Council who have similar situations and have on October 29. The HPC, represent· built bypasses to aid the problem. 
Dormitory roof collapses, kills students in Bangladesh 
and The Dally News English­
language newspapers reponed at 

DHAKA, Bangladesh · The roof of least 100 people were feared dead a university dormitory collapsed on and 300 injured in the roofcollapse, hundreds of students during heavy the capital's worst tragedy in recent rain caused by an approaching storm years. • Tuesday night. Officials said 31 Survivors and rescue officials said people died and other reports said at least 100 people were injured in more than 100 were feared killed. the roof collapse, as a storm with 
Hundreds of tons of girders and wind gusts reported at up to 93 mph cement crashed down on about SOO hit Bangladesh and southeastern In­Dhaka University students who dia. were watching a popular television Many of the injured were program at approximately 9 p.m. reponed to be in critical condition. The building was undergoing State television appealed for blood 
repairs when the accident occurred. donations, but many students who 
answered the call said hospitals 

Officials said 31 people, mostly were not able to handle the influx of students, died. But The New Nation donors. 

Correction 
Due to a reponing error, an ar­Student Senate, an amendment to ticle in Tuesday's Observer gave the constitution must be passed the incorrect title for Eric Par­by two-thirds of the student zianello. Parzlanello Is the stu· body. dent body treasurer. The Observer regrets the er· Also, In order to disband the rors. 
---~-~------~-~ ---~-~-­
Thursday, October 17, 1985 -page 4
The Observer 

Gorbachev adds new member to Politburo 

MOSCOW -Mikhail Gorbachev 

added another member of his 
economic team to the Kremlin 
leadership Tuesday and criticized 
"groundless fantasies" in past Com­
munist Party programs that charted 
the nation's course. 
A full session ofthe party's Central Committee named the new state planning chief, Nikolai Talyzin, a non-voting member of the Polit­buro. It also retired one of the last members of the old guard, former 
Health data of Americans released 
WASHINGTON -Blacks and other minorities are less healthy and die younger than whites, the govern­ment reported yesterday, but it said many of the estimated 60,000 early deaths that occur each year couldbe prevented. 
Health and Human Services Secretary Margaret Heckler, in releasing the report, said there is "a pronounced and stubborn dis­parity" between the health ofwhites and that of blacks and other minorities which has not ap­preciably narrowed in the years that statistics have been kept. 
She said approximately 80 per­cent of the early deaths result from cancer, heart disease and stroke, al­cohol and drug abuse, diabetes, in­fant mortality, accidents, or murder. 
Nevertheless, many of those early deaths, perhaps most ofthem, could be prevented by knowledge and change in personal habits, she said. 
"Smoking. alcohol, diet and obesity are clearly linked to the hig­her cancer, cirrhosis, cardiovas­
cular,  infant  mortality  and  other  
disease  rates  aftlicting  our  
minorities,"  she  said.  "And  

knowledge about the symptoms of disease can lead to early detection, early treatment and fewer deaths." 
She said she intends to shift $3 million in available funds to help implement the report's recom­mendation for greater education programs to alert minorities of the risk they face and to encourage changes in health habits. 
But she also said she would propose no big new federal program to confront the problem, saying it was unnecessary and, because of budget problems, unrealistic. 
"I do not believe that money is the answer," she said. "I do believe that knowledge ... as well as the target­ing of resources that already exist will very significantly narrow that gap." 
Heckler said she told the federal task force that compiled the report in advance that a big new federal program could not be one of its recommendations. The restriction originated from the White House, she said, but she added that the 
White House order dealt with all programs, not minority health specifically. 
She cited government efforts over the last 20 years to alert black Americans to their increased risk from high blood pressure. As a result, she said, stroke mortality among blacks dropped 51 percent from 1968 to 1982, and heart disease deaths dropped 42 percent. 
Still, the task force found that blacks continue to die of those causes at a higher rate than whites. 
The task force estimated that there are more than 18,000 excess deaths among blacks due to heart at­tack and stroke each year, compared with the number of deaths that would occur if their health was on par with whites. 
Premier Nikolai Tikhonov, from the ruling body, the news agency Tass reported. 
In a speech at the meeting. Gor­bachevlashed out atwhat he called a "dangerous turn" in U.S. foreign policy and said, "international developments have approached a line that cannot be passed without taking most responsible decisions. 
"These decisions cannot be put off without risking loss of control over the dangerous processes threatening mankind's very exis­tence," he said. 
The committee approved economic plans for 1986-90 and through the year 2000. The party also approved a draft edition of its "program" -a general outline of goals, ideology and policy that will be approved at a party congress set to begin Feb. 25. 
Details of the documents were not available, but the official news agency Tass said they would be published by the state-run press. 
Gorbachev said the party program "should be an exact formulation of the real process, explicitly spell out 
MID -EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
..VqdanM & that DW!ft FOODS SH.AWBHIA. MiJGBOERA -BABA GHENOUJ HOMMUS~ FELAFEL 
TEBBOULI S.ALAD SOUTH BEND • U:BAHESB STYLE 

• Pit• SMfed 84111Mdtu G VROS 
•IHU,Iat{uJ P,.trie• • TuriJU.Ia Coffee 288-5639 
Tue• -Sot 6:30PM -9:30PM 
cot'Jl.J'f:r~'Z~~lJ>R 838 Portage toi.Discount for ND/SMC Students 
the main views and political ob· jectives, be free from excessive details, groundless fantasies and bookish subtleties, from a game of definitions." 
The program was drafted by' a committee under Gorbachev's direction. In his speech, the general secretary made it clear that it would, as expected, drop many of the op­timistic promises included in the 1961 edition drafted under then­Premier Nikita Khrushchev. 
Khrushchev's party program promised to "sweep imperialism 

away and bury it."  
out the  .-datl'  
doutob  ~o~­ 
f\o s~e 

II

cafee!o~"o~\l~n\~· 
ted\>'J 

s~"~ . 
• 
Find out about prospective career chOices 

•
Positions available in many cities 


For •oreinformation caD Annette 239-6000 

The Observer Thursday, October 17, 1985-page 5 
u-d •  Eras•us Books 1027 E. Wayne Tues • Sun, noon • 6 I block soulh of Jefferson & Eddy -•of pm.t boob IIHMI•IIt. -w.-relied  

********************************** 
!* The Student Activities Board !* ! presents ! 
* * 





~ F.O.B.I.S. FEST ~ 
* * 
! (Fun Outside Before It Snows Festival) ! ! In conjunction with the United Way Drive! 
* * 
** Monday, Oct.28 •••••.outdoor !* 
performance by the Shenanigans, the _v.J

* 
Jazz Band, the Dancing ~* Irish. From 12-1pm out· *

* 
side South Dining Hall. 


* 

* Tuesday Oct.29••••••"Lose Your Fat Fun Run" *
* 
' co-sponsored with Non-*

* 
Varsity Athletics at 4pm. 


* 

Admission $2.00. Regis-* ** !ration at dining halls ** and at SAB oHices. * 
* 
Wednesday' Oct.30•• Night at the Alumni-* * Senior Club. 9pm-2am. * ! Thursday, Oct.31••••• Halloween Masquerade !* Costume Party. South ** Dining Hall, 9:30pm-? ** $1.00 donation to United * 

* 
Way. 


* 

* friday, NOV.1••••••••••First F.o.s.1.s.
Annual : Fest Dorm Quad Parade *

* 
Parade around campus* starting at Admin. Bldg. * * and ending at the pep *

* 
rally. Features the Notre 


*

* Dame Marching Band. * * 6pm Rock-a-like contesl ** Up-sync contest for * 
United Way, North * : Dining Hall from 9-11pm. * 
Registration at dining ** halls and at SAB oHices. ** 
********************************* 


Law School-For real? 
Students share an apprehensive look as they planned their futures yesterday at the Law SchoOl 
Caravan. 

Haitians seeking political asylum force entry·into Italian Embassy 
Emmanuel Blanchard, secretary but would not say how many were general of the Haitian Patriotic there or what happened after they 
SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Union, said Haitians who have fted got inside. Republic -More than a dozen political persecution in Haiti by Haitians seeking political asylum crossing the border into the The spokesman said Italian Am­outran police, ducked bullets fired Dominican Republic are suffering bassador Antonio Venturella sought by a guard and forced their way into serious economic problems and are refuge on the second floor of the the Italian Embassy Tuesday. being arrested and deported after building when he saw the group ad­
being pursued by Dominican police vancing on the building and heardAn embassy guard fired shots into 
and agents of the Haitian govern­shots.
the air when the Haitians broke ment.
down one of the doors, said an em­Blanchard said police chased the Six Haitians, who have allegedbassy spokesman who asked not to Haitians to the embassy, in an ex­political persecution at home by thebe identified. 
clusive residential section of the government of President-for-Ufe 
Police said no one was injured, city. He estimated 14 got inside, said Jean-Claude Duvalier, have been but two Haitians who failed to get two were arrested and others fled. Inside the Venezuelan embassy inside the embassy were detained The embassy spokesman con­since Friday. They also seek political for questioning. firmed the presence of the Haitians, asylum. 

An independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­plications for the following positions: 
e News Editor 
e DayChief 
Questions should be directed to Sarah Hamilton or Amy Stephan. Resumes and personal statements are due Thursday, October 17 at 5 p.m. 
For more inJDrmation, call The Observer at 239-5313 

SCOPE US OUT 

FOR ALL YOUR EYE CARE NEEDS­
COMPLETE EXAMS 
contacts, glasses 
NO /SMC students, Facuity and Staff Show Your I. D. and Receive 20 ·;.OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
Excluding Specials 

ProfessionalVision 
ASSOCIATES 

113511. 1......-1341 hrtlp 277-11111 234-2400 Soutn ol u.s. 23 M8r11•·• Sho!>l>ng
Centot 



--------.~..-.-.~. -;-;­
The Observer Thursday, October 17, 1985-page 6 



Andwe danced 

U.S. Vice President George Bush bugs his host, visit to China since 1980 and his second as vice Chinese Vice Premier Wan Li, Sun. during a formal president. welcoming ceremony in Peking. It is Bush's third 

Senate claims military joint chiefs 'obsolete,' asks for abolishment 
.MMdated Press 
WASHINGTON -The military 

Joint Chiefs ofStaff have become ob­
solete, unable to give effective 
advice, and should be abolished be­
cause they pose an obstacle to ef­
fective joint operations by the 
military services, a Senate staff 
report said yesterday. 
The report, the product of 2% 

years ofwork by the bipartisan staff 
of the Senate Armed Services Com­
mittee, recommends that the joint 
chiefs be replaced with a Joint 
Military Advisory Council. 
It would be composedoffive four­starofficers, each ofwhom would be on his last tour ofservice, in order to "create a source of truly indepen­dent military advice, uninhibited by service responsibilities and pressures." 
The ranking officers of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force would continue to head their services but would lose their role as direct military advisers. 
At present, the report said, the chiefs wear two hats, as military ad-

U.S. military to emphasize security 
WASHINGTON-Spurred by ter­

rorist attacks on three continents, 
the U,S armed forces are putting new 
emphasis on advising their person­
nel how to avoid making themselves 
inviting targets for attack. 
The advice comes against the 

background of the murders of four 
Marine embassy guards at an out­
door cafe in El Salvador in June, the 
slaying of Navy diver Robert Stet­
hem aboard a hijacked TWA jetliner 
in Beirut in July and a car-bombing 
that killed two people at the Rhein­
Main Air Base in West Germany in 
August. 
Many of the security tips fall into the realm of common sense and most are not new, but there has been a renewed emphasis on them, offi­cials say. The Army, for instance, in mid-September instructed com­mands worldwide to tighten security generally. 
Elaine Henrion, an Army spokes­woman, said soldiers going abroard also "are counseled a little bit" about making themselves less conspicuous in their appearance and behavior. 
Army Lt. Col. Arnold Williams, a public affairs specialist on terrorism for the Defense Department, said this involves cautions such as not to choose as off-duty apparel "cowboy hats with feathers in the band and belt buckles the size of pie plates" visers and service heads, and conse­quently are not able to do either job well. 
Identifying 34 problem areas, the report makes 91 spec~c recom­mendations for change, many aimed at improving the effectiveness of military operations involving more than one service. 
The committee was told the. cur­rent system is "fundementally flawed and in need of critical struc­tural reform." The report was unveiled at a com­
mittee  hearing  in  which  most  
members  .  agreed  change  has  
become essential.  

Nevertheless, debate flared ·over how radical that change should be. 
"There will be,those who say the system ain't broke, don't fix it," said Sen. Barry Goldwater, R-Ariz., the committee chairman who is a major general in the Air Force Reserve and was his party's 1964 presidential candidate. 
"However, itis broke and we need to fix it," said Goldwater, who is retiring at the end of his present term. "If we don't, our military ef­
and "not to congregate in a par­
ticular place habitually." 
Williams said an Army newspaper he edited in Germany ran regular security tips so that increased atten­tion to safety would not be taken as alarmist but simply an attempt to keep up the safety awareness of troops. 
AnAir Force spokesman, Capt.Jim O'Brien, said personnel in his service are given a "local threat briefing" upon their transfer to an overseas base. The service members are expected to pass these precau-
The SAB Presents: 
Bus to O'Hare Airport 
$10 


Thurs. Oct. 17at SAB Record Store 

tions along to their dependents, he 
said. 

The servicewide directives 
followed immediate steps taken by 
some field commanders after ter­
rorist incidents. 

Because Stethem's military affilia­tion was uncovered by the fact he was traveling with an armed forces identification card and written or­ders instead of a passport, the com­mander of U.S. naval forces in Europe, Adm. Lee Baggett, ordered sailors and Marines in his region to obtain civilian passports. 
tectiveness will be seriously im­paired. Ifwe have to fight tomorrow, these problems will cause Americans to die unneccessarily. Even worse, they may cause us to lose the fight." 
Sen. John Warner, R-Va., a former secretary of the Navy, disagreed. He said some ofthe proposed remedies would subject the armed forces and the Pentagon to "open heart sur­gery." 
He also said Goldwater's charac­teristic outspoken candor may undermine morale and cause more 
damage. 

"I disagree with your bluntness in 
saying this system is broke," said 
Warner. "We must proceed with ex­
treme moderation and care... .I 
would suggest we not characterize 
the whole system as broke but act in 
a manner to preserve the morale of 
the armed services." 
Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., the com­mittee's ranking Democrat, said "the facts overwhelmingly establish that there are real problems." 


Vandiver execution prompts investigation 
Associated Press 

MICHIGAN City, Ind. -A prison vf­
ficial defended the procedures used 
to test the electric chair that took 
five jolts of voltage and 17 minutes 
yesterday to execute William Van­
diver for the stabbing and dismem­
berment ofhis father-in-law. 
The chair, however, wired 
directly to a nearby Northern In­
diana Public Service Co. power sub­
station, will be tested again soon, 
Department of Correction spokes­
woman Nancy Broglin said. 
"We are going to have that chair checked to reconfirm what we al­ready know ... that it was not mal­functioning in any way," she said. 
The 72-year-old wooden chair has been used for executions since it was fashioned from the gallows abandoned by the state in 1913 after 13 hangings. 
The Student Activites Board presents: 

Wednesday ond Thursday October 16th ond 17th 7:00, 10:00 p.m. 
Holl of Engineering $1.50 
THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES 
Department of State Department ofCommerce 
U.S. Information Agency 
Compete to become a Foreign Service Officer 
Applications are now being accepted for the Foreign Service Written Examination, which will be held on December 7, 1985. They must reach the Educational Testing Service in Princeton, New Jersey, by October 25, 1985. 
Obtain the official application booklet at your administrative/ placement office on campus, or telephone (703) 235-9369 for a copy. 
A Foreign Service career is much more than just a job; it is a way oflife requiring commitment, self-discipline, and sacrifice. However, the opportunity for personal growth and satisfaction, as well as the possibility of influencing the course ofhistory, could be 
yours. Take the FSO examination on December 7. 
AD Equal Opportllllity Employer 


"The chair has been used 61 
times, including last night, and has 
never failed, except sometimes it 
needs more than one application," 
Broglin said. 

The chair was tested three times 
before Vandiver's execution by a 
private contractor using 
"established electrical procedures," 
Broglin said. 

The offices ofstate prison Warden Jack Duckworth and Department of Correction Deputy Superintendent Cloid Schuler referred inquiries to Broglin, who had been appointed spokeswoman for the execution, and they did not return calls. 
Dr. Rodger Saylors of Michigan City pronounced Vandiver dead at 
12:20 a.m. Saylors said the first jolts of 2,300 volts for 10 seconds and 500 volts for 20 seconds left Van­diver brain dead but still breathing. 

View~_o_i_n__t________
Th_u_rs-da-y,_oc-to-be-r1_7,-19-SS.....;;p...;;ag;...e7­




The six years of suffering have ,gone unnoticed 
Anti-apartheid week is over. Through posters, presentations and demonstrations, the student body has become painfully aware ofthe racial policies of the Bothagovernment. Most seem to feel it Is up to the United States and Its allies to put an end to the inhuman treatment of blacks In South Africa. On campuses nationwide, students are calling for economic sanctions on the part of this. country and private organizations. 
Alison Pivonka 
in print 
It is at this time, when awareness at Notre Dame ofsocial injustice is at its highest, that I propose a different kind of protest. Many of the same organizations which have responded to the call for divestment in South Africa con· tinue to maintain their interests in the Soviet Union, which is not only oppressive within Its borders but exports its violations of human rights to the Third World. 
I speak specifically of Afghanistan. While it is certainly not the only example of Soviet repression and cruelty, it Is a country whose nightmare began only very recently. The violence it has experienced has slipped past the media almost unnoticed. 
It began In 1973, when a military coup brought former prime minister Sardar Mohammed Daud back to power. Although he was not a Communist, Daud filled key govern· ment post.'i with individuals supportive of 
Soviet policies. He was assassinated by the 
army in 1978 and an unstable Communist 
regime was installed in the country. Afghanis· 
tan was invaded on December 27, 1979 by the 
Soviet Union. 
According to Jean-Francois Revel, former editor of L'Express, information about the condition ofAfghanistan is scarce not only be· cause of Soviet consorship but because of Western resistance. In his article "The Awful Logic ofGenocide" which appears in the Oct. 4, 1985 issue ofthe National Review, he states that one of the reasons for this resistance is that"... we ... spare ourselves from seeing it in order to excuse ourselves from having to oppose it." 
Reprinted in that same issue are portions of 
a report made by the U.S. Helsinki Watch 
Committee from a series of interviews with 
Afghan refugees. From these interviews the 
committee was able to discover information 
about the following: 
• A 21-year-old student arrested for distribut­ing "night letters" protesting the Soviet inva· sion. After his arrest, he was "hung by a belt until he was almost strangled, beaten until his face was twice its normal size, his hands crushed under the leg ofa chair ...." 
Two blind brothers in their nineties, who were unable to flee the village of Mata during the spring of 1984: "... the Russians came, tied dynamite to their backs, and blew them up ... 
" 
• A French doctor told of the punishment of an entire village after Afghan troops had defected: "They tied them up and piled them like wood. Then they poured gasoline over them and burned them alive ...." 

One former Soviet officer, Sergeant Igor Rykov, told the committee, "We did not take any prisoners of war. None. Generally we kilkd them on the spot." Other reports in· volve the dropping into residential areas of plastic toys which explode when children pick them up. The committee also docu­mented the mining of mosques, the booby­trapping of bodies and the use of poison gas. According to Revel, "... nearly 40 percent of the Jpopulation (since 1978) is either in exile, or dead." 
Such activity has been a reality in Afghanis· tan for nearly six years. Yet it was only inJuly 1985 that the U.S. Congress recognized the need to support the Afghan resistance. It seems that apartheid has for a time stolen the media spotlight from the Soviet Union. What we must remember is that a closed societysuf­fering such human rights abuses needs Wes· .tern attention as surely as does South Africa, if 
not more. 

Alison Pivonka is a governme11t and economics major at Notre Dame. 

An editorial cartoon recently caught my eye. A baseball player is leaving a courthouse, a conspicuous trial of white powder behind him. A young fan, baseball glove in hand, cries out in dismay, "Say it ain't snow, joe!" 
Unfortunately for baseball, it is so. 
Eric Bergamo across the eighth dimension 
In a season where Pete Rose notched career hit number 4, 192 to break the immortal Ty Cobb's record. Where the Toronto Blue jays became the first Canadian team to make it to the league championship series. A sea-son in which a prodigy named Dwight Gooden proved that his rookie sea.'ion was no fluke and 



American baseball must return to its past 
longer. l now accept drugs as an unfortunate aspect to our favorite pastime. But it can be changed. 
I commend the proposal of Baseball Com· misioner Peter Ueberroth that players take tests to show for drug use. Other professions use this procedure and the umpires have al· ready said that they would cooperate. The players have refused to do so, stating an inva· sion of their privacy. The players should now realize that it is time to clean up their house before there are anymore trials such as the one in Pittsburgh. 
People like Curtis Strong, the man who al­legedly supplied cocaine to the ·players, should be kept away from the ballparks and from the players. They are only parasites who feed on the players for their own personal gain. They are the ones who bring this dark shadow over baseball. 
As a society, we must move away from this glamourization of drugs like cocaine. We should not blindly accept the fact that drugs will remain an ugly spot in baseball. If we do that, the drug problem will only grow until it is out of.control. 
I want baseball to return to the way it was. A game played on a summer afternoon in a stadium filled with cheering fans. A game· winning home run sailing over the fence, a magnificent catch, a blazing fastball called a strike. I am tired of testimony and charges, of which players will be accused of using drugs next, of denials and allegations and courtrooms. 
I know that there arc farui out there who think the same way. 
Eric Bergamo is a sopbomot'f! government and international n!lations major at Notre Dame and a t'f!gular Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the day 

"A faithful friend is a sure shelter, whoever finds one has found a rare treasure. A faithful friend is something beyond price, there is no measuring his worth. Afaithful friend is the medicine of life, and those who fear the Lord will find one." 
Ecclesiasticus 6:14-17 
gave us a glimpse of greatness to come. A season when the Cubs lost all their starting pitchers and thirteen in a row in the process. A season where Billy came back to the Bronx and almost took the Yankees to the division title once more. All these images are over­shadowed by one that never took place on the playing field, but in a courthouse in Pit· tsburgh. A parade of baseball players with such names as Hernandez, Smith, Cabell and· 
Parker, coming out of the courthouse to be surrounded by the media. There were no questions about game-winning hits or pen· nant chances. These were questions about tes· timony and allegations. 1985 will be known as the year when baseball and cocaine were on trial. 
Something is wrong in America's game when this pushes the pennant races to the 


Doonesbury 
second page. But it is not something wrong 
with baseball only, but something wrong with 
our society. Drugs have now become fas· 
hionable in our day and age. Cocaine is now 
known as "the middle class high." Drug use in 
sporlts has become widespread. Drugs have 
thrown baseball, as well as other professional 
sports, into the spotlight ofnational scandal. 
For the young fans, this episode could be devastating. To see their heroes, those w~o they idolize and worship, rendered in an ar· tist's sketch 'testifying about their use of cocaine. This could break that young fan, realizing that his hero has done something wrong. If you cannot look up to that baseball play<:r, who can you look up to? Even worse, if that baseball player has been doing lines of cocaine, what can stop that young fan front sniffing glue in emulation ofhis hero? 
I r'emember when I was in grammar school and my father took me to our parish's sports banquet. The speaker that year was Greg Luzinski, then with the Philadelphia Phillies. They raffled off autographed baseballs, of whic:h I won one. I still have the baseball, the red ink is faded somewhat. Back then, that eleven-year-old boy was amazed and awestruck when I walked up to the podium to recic:ve it. From that day on until he retired, I followed the progress ofLuzinski in the sports pages. If I had read that Luzinski had testified to us,ing cocaine, that image ofhim as my hero woulld have been shattered. 
Could we accept a notion that such baseball grealtS like Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig were ad· dieted to cocaine? Could we accept the reason that the 1950 Philadelphia Phillies, "The Whiz Kids," lost the World Series be· caus•e they had gotten high on cocaine. No, I could not accept those kind of notions, Back then baseball was free of such things, but no 
Garry Trudeau 

VR. C¥W, WHAT A80UT THl3 YUPPie's V~RESIU&NT, 7HAT N(Jff}RJOUS BIJ.BY W£3l.L, AS AN oaJECT 7HOUGH. I HAV£3 /IKJ [)(}()ErT He 9JUNlJ5 H&'S 8C£N BOOM 5UfJSPeCJES-Of Ml3/JfA INT/3R£5r, He'll-fJf3 8ACI<, PROBABl-Y LIKE A CAU131J 7He YUPPIE? /5 HE TH£:R!3'5 NOQi.JFETION IN TIMe FOR THe O/RJ5TMAS FRJJIT /I.IORS8.A PHE3NOM8NON OF He'S IN REM/59/0N. s&Asav. He TEIJ[)5 70 RE-Fl-Y. 
/ 7H&PASF I
"' 





"ie~P-~O~i~n~t~-------------------------------------------T_h_ur_s_d_ay_,_o_c_to_b_e_r_I_7,_1_9_B_s___P_ag_e__s 
I 
r 
r 
r I 
r 



A new beginning? 
In recent years, student government has garnered little reaction from students except laughter. The Student Senate often has been ineffective and tied up by its own bureaucracy. 
Obviously, something needs to be done. Monday night, five student leaders, frustrated with the current situation and in the wake of last weekend's student leadership con­ference, decided to do something about the appalling status of student government. Their proposal to disband the Student Senate brought both jeers and cheers from stu­
dents. 

For most students, the first reaction to the proposal was that it is a power play on the part of Student Body President Bill Healy and the other student leaders. Based on the precedent of his administration this reaction is understandable. Healy's administration 
has a tendency to criticize in a reactionary manner. 
A closer look, however, will reveal that the acquisition of power is probably not the sole motivation for the action. Rather, the dominant motive seems to be frustration on the part ofstudent leaders who have been unable to lead. 
The five student leaders assume their inability to lead is inherent in the structure ofthe senate, so disbanding this body seems the obvious and immediate solution. But it must be examined whether the problemlieswith the structure ofstudent government orwith the leaders themselves. 
Will disbanding the senate make student government more effective? 
Monday night's actions were rash and the methods are questionable. The five leaders submitted their proposal to The Observer Monday night for publication, less than an hour after the Student Senate meeting. And yet no mention ofthe plan was made at the senate meeting. This is a poor reflection upon the integrity ofthe proposal. 
Similarly, while the leaders have taken the first step toward streamlining student government, they have not followed through with any viable alternative to replace that body. According to the student leaders, the Campus Life Council will become the new voice for students. While the CLC is recognized by the Board ofTrustees and the senate is not, in recent years this council has been untested as a student voice. 
Students should not support the proposal to disband the senate unless the five student leaders can present a viable alternative. Right now, what they are showing us does not appear to be any better. To disband one body without somethingworthwhile to replace it will only result in anarchy. And that's not going to do anybody any good. 
-The Observer 

The recent controversy over the labelingof Rock music records is all rather humorous. Besides shedding light on the insanities that public officials are concerned over, it is inter­esting to see how this current stir fits into the conservative, regulatory trend that has been sweeping the country. 
Brian Broderick 
sincerely yours 
Tipper Gore is leading this movement of momentous importance. She is the wife of Senator Albert Gore. There, now her identity should be sufficiently clear. Anyway, she seems to be suffering from the same ailment afilicting our beloved, if personally unknown to most of the campus, Student Body Presi­dent Bill Healy. They both like to see their names in the paper. Tipper Gore's next project will be to team up with Bill Healy. and aid him in his attempt to make those guys at The Observer open up the books. "Observergate" is an issue of campus-wide concern. 
Before I stray, let me address my central point: you cannot legislate morality. Gover­nor Mario Cuomo told us this last year when discussing the controversial issue ofabortion. Yet for the lack of anything better to do, the Tipper Gores ofthe world feel it is the govern­ment's duty to guide the children ofAmerican down the straight and narrow path. 
Her concern is justifiable. Ifmy spouse was an unknown senator, I would want publicity 



Cannot stop the music from being heard by all 
also. It is comparable to Bill Healy's plight of having nothing worthwhile to offer the campus so he will try to create a scandal. Wait there is a third parallel. I am the University of N~?tre Dame Administration. Let me introduce measures to regulate alcohol consumption on campus thereby reducing liability and impressing all of my conservative friends. 
My concern is not the lyric contect of songs. It is not whether or not The Observer is grossly corrupt. It is not whether or not al­cohol should be consumed on campus. What I do fear is this growing tendency in the United States of people regulating society. All of our moralistic friends are attacking symptoms ofa problem and not the root cause. Morality and ethics begin at home. If this fails then educa­tion is the answer. Morality must be taught by example, no forced upon the individual. Un­fortunately our elected officials are placed in a position oflosing their jobs if they do not bow to the pressure of groups like MADD or the new Parent Music Resource Center. 
Go ahead, tell twelve year-old Johnny the latest Motley Crue album has sexually explicit and violent lyrics. Now he is just more apt to buy the record. We all know how successful rating movies "R" has been in preventing those under eighteen from going to see movies. 
jerry Falwell and the blind followers called 
the Moral Majority must be so proud ofTipper 
Gore, activist, crusader, curer ofinsomnia .... 
Brian. Broderick is a sophomore govern­ment major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 

'Should I stay or should I go' one must answer 
Going abroad? Considering it? This article is dedicated to those Southern-bound students or future Eurofreaks who are "Clashing" with that crucial question, "Should I stay or should I go?" 
Barbara Grant and Katy Spalding 
guest column 
Life in these United States is not always all it is cracked up to be, now is it? Let us be honest. Baseball, hot dogs, apple pie and Chevrolet pale in comparison to Jai Alai, bratwurst, French pastries and Mercedes. Of cou~se, there is always the issue ofwhether or not one wants to forfeit a year at Notre Dame, with football weekends, SYRs, good friends and the dome. And if you are in certain major se­quences, chances are that your advisor will tell you it is impractical and practically impos­sible to spend a year abroad. 
Many things in life that are worthwhile re­quires some amount of work, sacrifice and risk. No one goes away from home, goes on to better relationships or matures without leaving some things, some one or some place behind and taking a chance. It is hard once you have begun to be comfortable to take a big risk and go light-years away · to another country, another culture, another university, another a-lot-of-things. 
But how will I fit in "over there"? What if I do not like enchiladas or tea at 4? Do I really have to go a whole year without drinking the water? How will I ever survive on just two showers a week? These questions and a mil­lion more may or will be going through your minds before that fateful day arrives when you step on the plane and head towards that "foreign place." No matter to which foreign studies program you sell your soul, you will all be wondering basically the same things. 
Yes, it is true. France, England, Mexico, Japan, even Israel -they are all civilized countries. They do have indoor plumbing with flushing toilets; they do sell toothpaste and deodorant; and if you want to, you can probably listen to the latest top forty hits on the radio while catching Dynasty on cable TV. Of course, one must realize that these countries and their people are indeed foreign to us. Life will be different, and therein lies all the excitement. 
Being in Mexico for a year I learned about 
many of the advantages of my own country 
from a totally new perspective. I was on the 

outside, and reading Excelsior, or The Daily News. I was often amazed at what the U.S. government was doing and how the United States was perceived in Latin America. As I became more critical of U.S. foreign policy, I became more appreciative of the internal protection and freedom which we, as Americans, enjoy. 
Being in France can be quite unsettli~ag at times -especially when I looked at the world map in my classroom and saw myself in Angers and the United States an entire ocean away. What a completely new view of the world I had. The Germans and the Spaniards were my neighbors. I had Italian and English and, of course, French friends. It may sound sappy, but I found hope for a peaceful world rooted in these relationships. 
So, do not let the fear ofthat final interview, or your grades in 121F, discourage you from going through with the adventure. Even if you only know how to say "Guten Tag," or "Donde esta el bano?" you can always find someone who is excited that you are trying to learn his or her language, (even in France). And you will, if you try, actually be able to understand the teachers after awhile. Do not let the nightmares scare you, either; even if you are stranded at Mexico City International, or in Zurich in Switzerland, or at Orly in Paris · do not be too concerned. You will live, and those things later on make great stories. 
A year aborad can feel like an awfully long time, it is true. And it may not always feel like the "best year ofyour life." But in the end, it is really worth i-t. You will have discovered people, places, and a part of yourself that you never knew existed. You will have gained a new perspective on your life as an American and as a student at Notre Dame. And after all, everyone knows that those who have been abroad are the "coolest" people on campus, n'est-ce pas? 
Barbara Grant is a government major and Latin American area studies major. Katy Spalding is an American Studies and French major. Both are seniors at Notre Dame. 
Ecrivez nous! Schreiben Sie uns! i Escriba nos! 
Write us! 
Viewpoint P.O.BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 




What Geraldine Ferraro's historic first has done? 
When I was little, I wanted to be a priest. I wanted to teach children about God the way the priests in my parish did and Iwanted to be a leader of my church community. I did not think I would have any trouble being ac­cepted into the seminary and becoming a priest. After all, I had almost every part of the mass memorized. Not only did I know all of the responses and most ofwhat the priestsaid, but I thought that with a little work, I could know every reading and gospel and be able to talk about them. · 
Mary Berger 
guest column 
Little did I know that women were not and still are not allowed to be priests or celebrate the Eucharist in the Catholic Church. Nor did I have any idea of the many limitations and discriminations in other fields that women faced as they were seeking careers. 
In last year's presidential election, Walter Mondale, Geraldine Ferraro, and the Democratic-Party made history when Ferraro was named the Democrat's vice-presidential candidate. That the idea had even occurred to presidential candidates Mondale and Gary Hartwas a giant step in itself, accordingto Fer­raro in her new book, "Ferraro: My Story," ex­cerpted in Newsweek recently. 
The Democrats hailed 1984 as "the time for a woman vice-presidential candidate." For Ferraro, that meant opportunities and ex­periences beyond anything she had ever en­countered. For the millions of women in America struggling to be recognized by society inbusiness, politics and the home, this declaration was like winning the semi-finals of a match. Sure, there would be some tough op­position to face before emerging victorious, but their game plan was finally paying off. They had climbed one more step on the lad­der ofrecognition. 
As the first woman vice-presidential can­didate on a major political party's ticket, Ferraro and her campaign changed the way society perceives what is possible for women today. America saw this Queens' Congres­swoman with only six years of experience cope with the pressures of traveling, cam­paigning and press conferences with strength and confidence equal to any man's. They sawa woman intensely dedicated to her career but equally dedicated to her family. 

Ferraro confronted each obstacle in her life as a fighter-not as a "woman" or as a "man". Her philosophy is one that can only lead to success: "You work hard, you prepare, you give it your all, and within a short time, you're on top ofit." It never mattered to Ferraro that she was a woman in a man's world. She had her job, completed it well, and was rewarded. She learned from others and used her knowledge to further her career. 
So, what do Ferraro's accomplishments and mywanting to be apriest have to do with each other? A lot. 
I wanted to be a priest and it never oc­'curred to me that I could not be one because I was female. I feel that, eventually, the chance for women to be priests will be much greater than it is at the present time. That chance will be the result of tremendous work on the part of women's interest groups. The woman chosenas the first priest will play a role similar to the one Ferraro is playing. She will make history in the Catholic Church just as Ferraro did in the American government. Ferraro has set the precedent for this woman. 
Ferraro's candidacy was a huge step for womankind. Not only did itcreate a legacy for 
women in politics to follow, but it emphasized 
the idea that women are capable of handling 
any position men can. It removed more stones 
from the walls blocking women in their 
careers today. 

If a woman is qualified for a position, is 
motivated to complete her job well and works 
for her position, she will be successful. She 
may not encounter success immediately and 
achieving that success may be tough, but it is 
more realistic now than it has ever been. Now 
it is a possibility, whereas before it was a 
dream. 

That is not to saythat in the near future a woman will be ordained as a priest ifshe really wants to be one and works hard to attain that goal. Who is to say when that will happen? It does indicate, though, that some seeds have been planted, and that the ideas and results which generate from them are the future. 
IfI have a daughter, she may never be the Pope and live at the Vatican. But, thanks to Ferraro and her role in the 1984 election, she may very well be the President of the United States, seated in the Oval Office. 
Mary Berger is in the Freshman Year of Studies atNotre Dame. 


------~--------­

"ieVVP-~O~i~n~t________________________________,__________Th__u_rs_d~ay~,_o_c_to_b~e_r~17~,~1~9~8~5~p~a~g~e~9 
Writing takes a special inner courage to perform 
The world is filled with opportunities for your Macintosh will short-circuit and, mistak­the writer is the ideal but is only achieved by years of hard labor. And the liigners of the the adventurous. If one survives the rigors of ing you for sofrware, attempt to suck you into the most ruthless ofWriter Assault Teams. Declaration ofIndependence were just harm­undt·rgraduate life, one can choose from any the terminal and print you out as a rough draft, less, slightly disgruntled colonists until they
-I have been called a communist subversive.
number of hazardous occupations. One could writing may not seem to be a particularly dan­publicly committed themselves to a written 
I have been accused of Puritanism. I will leave 
aspire to chiefsecurity guard at the Beirut air­gerous pastime. Do not be deceived. Anyone document. They had to fight a whole war in 
you to ponder the ideological incompatability
port or candle-tender at the Grotto, for ex­who puts pen to paper or fingers to keyboard defense oftheir views. 
ofthose labels). Yet, I continue to write. Why?
ample. But if you really have courage, if you is asking for it. And there is a whole world out No, not stupidity, although I have not ruled
n:ally want to put your life and sanity on the there to insure that he or she gets it. My point is that to express one's opinions,
out that possibility entirely. No, not masoc­
line every day, if public humiliation is your feelings and deepest beliefs ln writing is a
hism, although it may be more of a contender
cup of tea, the choice is obvious -be a writer. Writing a column or an editorial takes a.spe­scary business. But even scarier would be to
than stupidity. Mostly it is because ofthe com­
cial brand ofcourage or a greater than average have those opinions, feelings and beliefs 
pany in which beingan abused writerputs me.
supply offoolhardiness. As soon as the article ignored. Every time a writer is criticized, he 
Maura Mandyck is printed, the Writer Assault Team swings Galileo was just another stargazer until he has been heard. Misunderstood, maybe, but into action. The writer's facts were wrong, his wrote "Dialogues Concerning the Two Chief heard. And that is the purpose ofwriting. So go quotes were out of context and his style was World Systems." Suddenly, he had the per­ahead, write a rebuttal. Write a letter to the
frankly my dear offensive. He must be punished, severely and sonal attention ofthe Pope and was declared a editor. Make my day. immediately. Letters must be written, insults heretic. Fyodor Dostoevsky wrote in support phrased and humility campaigns launched. ofthe underdog and was sentenced to solitary Maura Mandyck is a juniorEnglish major 
Now aside from the possibility of ex­'Ibe writer must be shown the error of his confinement, was exiled and narrowly at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint plosives in your ballpoint, or the chance that ways and made to repent. Self-flagellation by escaped execution. He "got off' with four columnist. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Pohlen resigns office 
answers except in the enigmatic words of ting which will continue i~definitely, Christ: "When you did this to the least of my providing the United States will do likewise. 
Students and faculty
brothers you did it to me." President Kennedy initiated such a

to avoid a hypocrisy 
I am grateful to Grammens for writing this moratorium on atmospheric testing. The wrongly treated at ND /Jear Editor: stirring commentary, and to The Observer for Soviets responded and this led to the Umited I wish to express my extreme displeasure publishing it. ------­
Test Ban (LTB) Treaty of October I963, 
which is still in effect. The Soviet moratorium Dear Editor: Baccanari from the ad hoc Comminee on American Studies dept. 
with the dismissal of John Dettling and Pat Elizabeth Christman could possibly lead to a permanent ban on all Last Friday afternoon I attended the anti­nuclear weapons testing, if President Reagan apartheid rally outside of the AdministrationResponsible Business Practices. To sel the 
would respond in kind. Building, along with a few hundred of therecord straight, my objection has less to do 
with South African investments than with stu­
Confusion exists over 
So far, Reagan's response has been to call it more informed and concerned students and propaganda and to reject it. No wonder the faculty members. Thankfully, this demonstra­dt·nt government's obsequious manner of 

Healy's representation 
Soviets say that they have tried to halt the tion contained a little more substance thandealing with the Administration. 
nuclear arms race, only to be rebuffed by the the Infamous Alcohol Policy protest. Students United States. If Reagan would take up the are finally beginning to stand up for what they The l>ettlin~ot·Baccanari fiasco is a vivid ex­
ample of well-versed, hard working cabinet Dear Editor: We are outraged by the dismissal of John Soviet challenge, then we would see if their believe in at this, the almightiest of college
members who find their expertise ignored and their opinions shunted aside. The fact that Dettling and Patrick Baccanari from their offer was propaganda or not. We might ac­campuses. Billllealy would discard two such obvious as­positions in the Student Activities Board be­tually get a halt in testing and take a major step Thank you, Peter Walshe for your advice on sests to student government at the slightest cause of their alleged criticism of ad­toward ending the nuclear arms race. But, our how to promote change -Protest loudly, but 
Healy not rudely. It seems that some of our elders
sign of controversy with the administration ministrators. We wonder who Bill president :seems determined to race on to 
represents -the students or the administra­oblivion. . could learn a lesson from Walshe's advice onspeaks poorly of his ability to stand up and tion? Obviously, Healy does not know how to The preamble to the L TB Treaty states that manners. We all patiently listened to Univer­
fight for student needs. Given this situation, it is obvious to me that play intelligently in a game of power and ap­
the parties are "seeking to achieve the discon­sity President Father Theodore Hesburgh and it is best that I resign my cabinet position as pears to be infatuated with the administra­tinuance of all test explosions of nuclear I will admit that his case against divestment Service Concerns Commissioner. I regret tion's timid position against the oppressive weapons for all time." In I982, Reagan halted was well made, however long and drawn out having to make this decision, but until Notre apartheid in South Africa. Has he himselftaken all negotialtions for a comprehensive test ban the process. So why could Hesburgh not show Dame gets a student government capable of a stand on the issue? Has he himselfsigned the which would achieve such a discontinuance. the same courtesy by politely listening to the .~tanding up for student goals I feel that any petition, questioning the administration's In I982, a United Nations resolution to outlaw next speaker, Walshe? Instead, he crossed in participation on my part would represent a policies? We doubt it, and we challenge him to all nuclear testing passed II I to I with the front of Walshe, down the steps of the Ad­great hypocrisy. explain rationally to the student body why United States being the I. ministration Building and over to the lawn to two hard-working and dedicated students Brother Bill Mewes conduct TV and newspaper interviews. Yes,
jerome Pohlen Alumni Hall were dismissed just as their work was gaining Columba Hall we all know Hesburgh is newsworthy, but I campus-wide attention. We challenge Healy 
was insulted and embarrassed for him when to explain why he himself does not take a 
he attempted to "steal the show" from his col­
Thanks writer and The Extra money from fees 
legue. Even leaving out the back way, side way doubt that Healy will do any of the above wit­stronger stance regarding apartheid. We 
or bottom way would have been better than
Observer for column could be used by WVFI 
so rudely crossing in front ofthe next speaker. Dear Editor: thought. We are ashamed that Healy claims to 
hin the parameters of good and sincere 
That next speaker was right, the University Jeannt· Grammens' essay on Oct. 14 about represent the student body when he appears DearEditor: 
treats its faculty like second-class citizen.-; and 
encountering the poor, is a moving look at a to be no more than a pawn of the administra­To my pleasant surprise, there has been its students like children. central Christian dilemma. tion. some interest in WVFI in the past weeks. The 
LisaDold 

()n a weekend ofexpense and enjoyment in Edgardo Tenreiro majority opinion seems to be, ''I'd listen if I Notre Dame student Chicago she was challenged by two examples Alejandro Foxley could, but I can't tune it in." A situation has of city poverty. With eloquence and sen­Anne Marie Finch arisen that could help remedy this situation. sitivily she reflel'ts on her response to these Notre Dame students The main impasse to the improvement of 

Bill Healy's resignation 
two challenges, recognizing that either or the station is money or the absence ofit. At the 
both ca..o;es might have been spurious. Perhaps United States should risk of sounding like a simpleton, I ask "What would be a clean start the man who asked her for money to feed his about that surplus money from student ac­
family wa..'! a fake. Perhaps the little boys tivities fees?" No one has been presented with Dear Editor:

give Soviets a chance 
shining shoes late at night on the street were this money yet, so no one will miss it. Why not Bill Healy and his gang call for "A New juvenile hustlers who should not be en­DearEditor: side step the politics and make it a gift to Beginning." I agree with their call, and think couraged. Congratulations to Evan Farley on his WVFI? It may not be all the station needs, but the new beginning should commence with 
'The Christian dllemma she expresses so recent Viewpoint column pointing out flaws it is movement in a positive direction. The their resignations from office. Ifthere is to be a profoundly is just this: can we refuse to help in Soviet propaganda as we approach the funds will help make the transmitter new beginning, let it be a clean start. Let Healy those who appeal to us unless they prove that Geneva summit. I hope that he will write a serviceable, thereby allowing reception in the and his gang offer a petition for recall of stu­
they are deserving? And how can they prove it similar article pointing out the flaws in U.S. dorms and giving the students the oppor­dent body president and vice president, along in "encounters that last only seconds"? propaganda as regards the nuclear arms race. tunity to be exposed to WVFI. with their petition to disband the Student 
Grammens does not want to become Nevertheless, I don't think all Soviet arms I think you will find you have presented a Senate. This done, a new election can be held, immune to such encounters. She wonders if control proposals should be seen as gift to yourself as well as the radio station. and a new beginning can be truly wrought. there are any answers. But her essay shows propaganda. At present the Soviets have in­W. Todd Wajjner Michael Vore that she already senses that there are no itiated a moratorium on nuclear weapons tes-Holy Cross Hall Cavanaugh Hall 
Editorial Board Operations Board 


The ObserYer--­
Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief .............................Sarah E. Hamilton Busmess Manager.... . ...... Dav1d Stephemtch 
Managmg Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ......... Wilham J. H1ghducheck 
News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager.. . ..... J1m Hagan 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of News Editor...... .. .................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager.. . . Mark B. Johnson Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guanno ProductiOn Manager.. John A. Mennell admm1stra11on of either 1nstitut1on. The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sports Editor.......................... .. ........... Jeff Blumb Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opmion of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commen­Accent Editor. .. .. .. .... .. .. .. .. .. . . . ........... Mary Healy tanes. letters and the InSide Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches campus. through letters, IS encouraged. Copy Chief ............................................... Frank Lipo Founded November 3, 1966 
~------~---------------­





Accent 
Thursday, October 17, 1985 -page 10 
Behind the opaque windows 
Marilyn Benchik 
features writer 
C 
ontrary so popular belief, 
people who go into the Notre 
Dame Radiation Research 
Laboratory are not swallowed up 
for all eternity by this edifice. 
According to Robert Schuler, 
director ofthe ndiation laboratory, 
the primary purpose ofthe lab is "to 
try to understand the intermediates 
produced by radiation." 
The radiation laboratory was built by the Notre Dame science department because ofits involve­ment in various electron accelera­tion projects since 1936. Notre Dame's chemistry department was considered the most competant by the federal government to conduct research in the radiation chemistry field, because of the laboratory's long time interest in the field. 
Schuler is the radiation 
laboratory's third director, and took 
office in 1976. john McGee held the 
position ofdirector from 1970 until 
1976 and Milton Burton preceeded 
him as director from 1963. 
The laboratory's projects have 
been governmentally funded since 
1946. The Atomic Energy Commi­
sion was the primary source of 
these finances at that time. 
Notre Dame's radiation 
laboratory is the principle research 
area for radiation chemistry 
nationwide. The two other 
laboratories are the Argon National 
Laboratory and the Brookhaven 
National Laboratory. According to 
Schuler, "This (Notre Dame's) 
radiation laboratory is the best and 
the largest." 
Associate Director, R. W. Fessen­
den, said that "We study the 
properties ofreactive chemical 
molecules which have short 
lifetimes. This process is studied 
through a technique called lasar 
photolysis which produces pre­
radials in a short time." 
Schuler elaborated upon this, 
"We are mea!iuring how fast the 
reactions occur that are produced 
by various types ofradiation, and 
what the nature ofthe inter­
mediates is. These reactions occur 
in a millionth ofa second or 
shorter." 
"The most significant recent 
developement was ofa special technique by which our scientists looked at the way molecules, produced by radiation, vibrate. This experiment provides information on the structure and the manner in which these molecules react," Schuler said. 
The experiments at the radiation laboratory are researched through the use ofspecial equipment which utilizes electron acceleration and 

There is absolutely no threat of radia­tion harming anyone in the lab or on campus. The thick wall structure prevents any leakage, and there are numerous other electric monitors to warn workers when radiation is present. 
lasers to produce reactions in a 
billionth ofa second. Devices which analyze the products ofthe 
reaction by their light absorption and emission properties are also used to conduct experiments. 
Fessenden offered another ex­ample ofresearch methods, "In 1981 the rate ofthe reaction of electrons and oxygen molecules was investigated by using microwaves." 
The radiation laboratory is now funded in part by the United States Department ofEnergy. The amount received equals S3.5 million a year. This amount supports the research and the purchase of major equip­ment items. 
The government is not involved in any specific projects; it simply supports the basic research at the lab. "Their interest is that these results will eventually be useful. The purpose ofour work is not to develop specific devices; that comes at a later stage. We provide the principles, and it is up to other 
researchers to use these prin­ciples," said Fessenden. 
Once a year, over a three day interval, government observers examine the scientific progress of the laboratory. "Most ofthe pressure to perform quality experi­ments is generated in one's self. If we conduct good research then there is no pressure to mass produce experiments. Each scien­tist is his own best critic," said Schuler. 
Approximately I 00 people work at the radiation laboratory, and they are all on Notre Dame's payroll. Two glass blowers, and an electrical technician are included among the ranks employed at the radiation laboratory. 
Presently, there are six under­graduate students and l 5 graduate students employed at the lab. Two of the undergraduates actually operate accelerators which are vital to many of the experiments. 
These undergraduates are on work-study (arranged through financial aid) while the graduate students are earning academia credit while working for their doc­tecate degrees. 
Most ofthe graduate students received their degrees in chemistry. Each student chooses a specific area to study, and they go through a standard procedure for chemistry graduate students. They apply for positions to assist a professor, and then students are accepted on the basis ofvarious factors involved in this admission process. 
Hugh McManus, a chc:mistry graduate student, is now working at the radiation laboratory. His under­graduate degree is from Maynooth College in Ireland, and his major was physical chemistry. He now works a minimum 70 hour week, and he earns J650 per month. McManus' tuition is free also. 
McManus' job includes running experiments, analyzing the results and planning new experiments. His advisor, Fessenden, is responsible for overseeing McManus' indepen­dant work. "I enjoy the research part of my job the most," McManus said. 
"Most people are curious as to what goes on in here. With the opaque windows and the fact that it 
The Qho...,,,./H:....,.. 
Top: A Van de Graaff electron accelerator with a potential of three million volts just may be tbe largest football on campus. Center: Mark Frick perfonns a laser flash photolysis while ex­perimenting tn tbe radiation lab. Bottom: Dr. Keith Madden per­fonns a Radtolysis ESR experiment using tbe Van de Graaff electron accelorator. 
is government funded, this building The lab seems much more mys­can be thought ofas being very terious due to the presence of the mysterious," McManus remarked. opaque windows. Both Fessenden 
In addititon to employing foreign and Schuler remarked that these graduate students, the radiation windows are used only to minimize laboratory has also accepted senior heating costs by saving electricity. research professors and doctors Each of them also said that there is from 50 different countries. Some absolutely no threat ofradiation ofthese guests represent countries harming anyone in the lab or on such as Argentina, Poland, Belgium, campus. The thick wall structure France, Japan, China, India, and prevents any leakage, and there are Yugoslavia to name a few. These numerous other electric monitors scientists usually remain at the lab to warn workers when radiation is for a year. present. 
-----------~­
Thursday, October 1 7, 1985 -page 11 

One bad apple can not spoil this bunch 


Neil Young goes front techno-pop to country ntusic; back to his roots 
Keith Harrison Jr. 
Record review 
Old Ways 
Neil Young 
*** 
Records are rated on a four·star scale. four being tne best 
First it was techno-pop, com­plete: with chilling synthesizers  Falling into the former category arc songs about a lonely man and  
:.md c~,>mputer-distortcd vocals.  woman, an homage to a loving wife  
Then came a rockabilly project,  and a beautiful ballad called "My  
featuring slicked-back hair, long,  Boy."  
burly sideburns and a lot of pink  The title track, along with "Get  
tuxedos.  Back to the Country," belongs to  
Now, for the third time in nearly  the latter category. Both songs arc  
as many years, rock legend Neil  about trying to get out of the chic,  
Young has changed his tunc again·  fast-paced lifestyle which drives  
and the result is nearly as satisfying  people to take comfort in booze  
as it is surprising.  and other vices.  
Neil Young has gone country.  The surprising thing is that nearly  
Country. As in johnny Cash,  every song works. One reason may  
George jones and Hank Williams.  be the veteran country musicians  
'Inc name of the album is Old  appearing on the album. Most of the  
Ways, and it is filled with country  credit, however, must go to Young,  
rhthyms, country themes and  whose songwrlting talents give Old  
country musicians · including ducts  Ways plenty ofcountry rcspec·  
with country "outlaws" Willie  lability.  
Nc:lson and Waylonjennings.  The flaws arc few, but they do  
Young obviously realized he had  exist. "Misfits" is about astronauts  
to explain this new musical direc­ in a space station, a hooker who  
tion, and he does just that on the  gets a sneezing attack and a drunk  
second cut of the: album, "Get Back  hitchhiker. And the whole thing is  
to the Country." Musically, it is a  backed by some very un-country  
flat-out country stomp, including a  orchestral strings. You figure it out.  
banjo,~ fiddle and a steel guitar.  Also, while Young's high-pitched,  
Lyrically, it tells the story of  whining voice is great for rock  
Young's conversion to country  music, it is not quite designed for  
music:  country music. He doesn't sound  
When I was a younger man  bad, but his inadequacies do  
Got lucky with a rock'n'roll  become apparent when he is  
band.  matched with the rich, deep voice  
Simek gold in Hollywood,  ofWaylon jennings.  
All/bat time I kneu• I would  Some may wonder if Young is  
Get back to the country, Back  truly committed to country music  
where it all began.  or if he is simply cashing in on the  
recent "roots music" trend. Young,  
Most of the songs use the two  however, claims that he will be  
tried-and-true themes ofcountry  making country music from now  
music: first, the rc:lationships of  on. Only time will tell if that state·  
<:ommon, hard-working people, and  mentis true, but from the sound of  
second, the pains tmt come from  "Old Ways," it would not be a bad  
hard drinkin' and fastlivin'.  thing at all.  



Tunes treated sante old way 
·n Walsh
KeVI 

Record review 
Rhythm Romance *" 
Romantics 
Records are rated on a toil-star scale, four being the best 
R
emember "What I like About 
You"? What agreat song. 11le 
kind ofdance song that actually 
made you forget just what an idiot 
you looked like dancing. One ofthe 
great party songs of all-time; it'll 
probably show up on some 
soundtrack in twenty years and all 
our teenage kids will drive us :nuts 
playing it. 
The Romantics next song · "Talking In Your Sleep" · made it big. "Talking In Your Sleep" always bothered me though because a) it sounds too much like Rick james' "Superfreak" b) the video for it revealed the members ofthe Romantics as having more hair combined than the entire popula· tion ofEthiopia and c) my 6-year­old sister walked around the house singing it. This takes away from a 
song. 
Rhythm Romance is the Roman­tics' new album and it is disappoint­ing. The problem is that the Romantics' style is so infectious that I found myself liking every song as it came up. In retrospect though, they all sound the same. 
"I Got It If You Want It" is a per· fect example ofwmt I mean. It is a competently written power pop sontt but it sounds like every other song on this album. It could have benefitted from a slowing down, a 
piano, and a lonely slide guitar. It could have been a great country-ish rock song, but the Romantics give it the same old treatment. 
Even though every track is mad· deningly similar, each one is also obnoxiously danceable. From these grooves springs not originality, but familiarity. You can sing along after two listenings. I just hope my little sister hasn't heard it yet. 





Pop songs with asharp edge 
Tim Adams guilelessness, and in its playing. It says people should not always be by
Record review 
meeting deadlines and going from place to place, something that's easy to say but not easy to do.

Rip Your Wig ***~ 

HuskerDu 
Flip Your Wig is an album to get excited over. It was born and 

Records are rated on a four-star scale, four being the best 
I
nurtured in the ranks of independent-label music, where the J aving achieved god-like heed the advice ofsomeone who most vital stuffcomes from today. If .l status on the independent says the only way to travel far wit· you're tired ofthe "doo doo doo" scene, hard-rocking trio Husker Du hin our minds is to reach our blues, Flip Your Wig will body slam recently found itselfwith more "private plane" (i.e. by drugs). anything c:lse around and will pin fame than it knew what to do with. My favorite song on the: album, your tumuble down for many 
Offers from almost every major "Flexible Flyer" is striJdn& In its months. record label poured in, hoping to lure the Huskers from their mighty powerful indie label, SST Records. All their efforts were in vain; a mere seven months after its last release, Husker Du has emerged with a new album, Flip Your Wig. On SST Records. 
The new LP features pop songs played in a sometimes sharp-edged manner. Don't buy this album and expect to hear the squeaky-clean arrangements of Wham! or Kool and the Gang. 
"Makes No Sense at All," the first single off the album, is fast and features powerful guitar riffs, yet it's still tuneful and you can hum to the arrangement. And the lyrics con­cern themselves with a little more than Wham!'s "doo doo doo's." 
"Makes No Sense at All" looks at someone who considers himself important yet humble, when he really is neither. "Private Plane" is an anti-drug song, telling us not to 



r ~-, The Observer Thursday, October 17, 1985 -page 12 
The Ohsert•t>r :'>Jotr<' Daml' offkl'. locatnl on tht· third Ooor ol l..Jl·ortUnl' Studl'nt <:l'nter. .Jcn·pts cla"ilkd ad\'l'rtising from ') a.m until ·t p m . \lunda' through l'rida\ lhe Ohsert•a ~aint .\tan·, offkt·. locatnl on tht· tl11rd !loor of Haggar <.ollt·gt· C.l'nter. an l'J'h da"ilinb from I.!. '0 p.m until ·' p 111 . \I on· da\· though Frida\' l>l'adlint· lor nl'Xt·da\ cla"ilinl' " ' p m All cla"ilit·ds must he prepaid. either in person or h\' mail <:hargl' is tO n·nts per th-e charac­




Classifieds 
ters er dav. 

L0Wr TWO DOZEN SliGHTLY USED FOR SALE: $26 OF CREDIT AT PASS PAY ATIENTION 
Help ua avoid the Beantown bluea. Give MEN'S CREW TEAM-Thanka for yourDUREX. IF FOUND PLEASE CAll PETS AT UNIVERSITY PARK WE ARE WANTlN TO TRADE ua a ride to Beeton 01 vicinity f01 October aupport-it mMna a lot to ua. WE'LL MISS 
NOTICES break. Call Maria4114. YOU! We'M make you and NO proud of ua
sconAT 288-5484. MALL: .ENOUGH TO BUY A LOT OF 2 loftilY G.A.a AND FISH OR A VERY, VERY SMALL 2 ARMY ITUDENT TICKETS
································································ in Boeton! WE LOVE YOU!!! -VARSITY 
LOST GLASSES BETWEEN GROTIO & DOG, MAYBE.ON SALE FOR A FOR lAIIlE NU1181R OF 
WOMEN. FLANNER PLEASE CAll4128 RIDICULOUS $20. CAll 1123, UIC TICKETS. G.A.a 
TYPING AVAILABLE HEYYOUIII ............................................... 
ASK FOR TONY. PRICE IS ORITUDINn'.
287-4082 MEN'S CREW TEAM· Thanka f01 your
Loat I know aomebody found my jMn NEGOTIABLE, BUT ONLY A BIT. GIVE Ul A DING. JIREIIY OR JOHN. I need a ride to Perwacota, Florida 
aupport-it meana a lot to ua. WE'LL MISS t-c~~et2 -'<811110 in room 114 Olhag.. If ········•······················································· 234-7412 01aomewhere ctoae (Mobile, Albama) YOU! We'l make you and NO proud of ua TYPINGI CALL CHRII 2J4-1117 alter the Army game Saturday 01 Sunday in Boeton1 WE LOVE YOU!!!-VARSITY
you found it I'd rllllly fikelt back..,piMM C811764. 
WOMEN. PRO-TYPE Over 15 y-.exp. Specializ­TICKETS PLEAIE CALL 808 AT 2f1T7
2 ARMY GA'S. TRADE FOR ANY HOME ing in atudent papef8, law papef8. dia­HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHAS!! I LOVE YOU 
loa! goklloop Mrring with """" hanging GAME GA'S. CAll DAVE AT 1059 BY -ona,,...,., 277-5633 THURS. WILL SELL AFTER 12 PM AND AM LOOKING FORWARD TO A
from iUentimental v•ue. If found C8l 284-41011 
need 4 tixa to army call 2723491 (gu) THURS. FUN WEEK! ACE THAT GROSS! 
································································ 
WOIIDP~NG 

2774141 Need many usc GA tix. Wll pay big SELLING 2 AIR FORCE GA'S BRIAN AT ATTENTION K·IIIAJIT aHOPPEIIS SAB GIGI-Don't try the~Mahed potato.in the FREE PICKUP & DBJV!Ein' bucka! Pleaae C81289-3477. 3374 BUS TO O'HARE FOR FALL BREAK. dark' We thougllt -·d get you a C.B.FOR RENT $10 $10 $10 $10 $10 $10 $10 $10 radio, but inatead you're getting eome of NEED PENN ITATE TIXIII NEED 6 NAVY GA'S!!PLEASE CAll BUSES LEAVE MAIN CIRCLE FRI OCT the green atuff! Wiahing you a Hubbabup Wll trade 2 Navy GA'a 272-4540 18 6 PM SAT OCT 19 6 PM DEADLINE 8-day. HOPE IT'S WEEL Y THWELL! F01 2 Penn State GA'a FOR PAYMENT IS THURS OCT 17 AT LOVE-COLLEEN, BARB, SHEILA, PEG, 
RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE II you've..,c Pann 1181e11x, NEED STUDENT USC TIX. CAll MIKE SAB RECORD STORE. NAT, ANNE. 
LOST/FOUND I 

OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR 
call LarYy ..2012 AT288-5355 
CITY/COLLEGATE RENTALS 
THANK YOU, IT. JUDE HEY: Do you Ike my JEAN JACKET? I 
INC.,2587661 NEED UIC QA FOR DAD NAME YOUR 
HEY MAYO! -IDID. If by accident you toe* H from I need 4 Army & 4 USC GA'a C8l Mike WOOOO PIG SOOOIE ENDAD 
PRICE HAPPY 18th 8-DAY, SEXY! 

SEEKING FEMALE ROOMMATE. CAll JEFF 1668 
Flamer'a pit on Tuaaday night, pie-. 3095 So what •e you gotng to do now thatNOTRE DAME
return it. $$$$ ~ offered and no FASHION YICTIIII you're an old man? Juat remember­APTS.INEXPENSIVE.CAU ALICE 232­
quaationa aaked. Crill 1177. FASHION YICTIIII 
DIFFUSION Love your SF Liz THANKS ....... FASHION YICTIIII
6069 OR 287-7657. 1 ARMY GA FOR SALE. CAll CHRIS 
1616
································································ NEED MANY USC GA'a 01 STUD. RICK NOV. 15, 1985 
Leenberta, My wiN miu you very much!!
1 01 2 ROOMMATES needed f01 Tur11e
LOCI«, WHOEVII!Jt IS nte UCKPACit: 288-5418 SS$ 
Have a wonderfuN breal<! Love ya, (aoonKLEPTOIIANIAC AND HAl NMeaD4 
Creel< Townhouae. Great townhouae, 2 ARMY GA'S $34. 272-9090 
to be) Tan Smurf OTHIEIIUCKPACKI THIS WUK NOT I NEED USC TIX. CAllBRIAN AT 2937. 
very rM80118b1e. Crll277-2364 NEED Army Student tix. Call Mike at 1806 
TO i11Bn10N ...I .lUST WAiff YOU 
TOM POWERS IS COMING TOM TO KNOW THAT YOU'YI IIADIE IIY Deaperatety need 5 GA f01 Nllvy 01 Miu. 
WOMEN'S CREW TEAM -Good luck in 
Beeton! Do it 101 yoursetvee and ua too. POWERS IS COMING TOM POWERS IS 
UFI A UYING HILL ntiS WUK. AT game. Money noobject. Crill Kevin2113. 
Dig deep inaide. DRAGON. COMING TOM POWERS/ COMING LEAIT Ull WHAT UTTU DICINCY 
DESPERATELY NEED ARMY GAS. YOU HAYI LIFT TO RITUM IIY WILL TRADE 2 ARMY GA'S AND$ FOR CALL CHRIS 1489. 

WANTED 
TOM POWERS IS COMING TOM
FRENCH TUTORING-EXCHANGE FOR 
NOTD.ACIAIN, IT II A MOWN 4 OR 2 MISS. GA'S. KEITH-3034 CALCULUS TUTORING OR PIANO POWERS IS COMING TOM POWERS IS 
.lAMPORT CONTAINNG I NEED 2, 4, OR 6 GA'S FOR THE USC
································ LESSONS. 233-6581. COMING TOM POWERS/ COMING 
lll,FMNCH,KIENCE RIDEIIS NEEDED TO PHILA. AREA AIUIY TIX FOR IALE (G.A.'I AND GAME. WILL PAY $$$. CALL DIANE NOTDOOKI,AND KEY8. IIIINQ TO ITUDENT) WILL IILL REAIONAIILE
FOR BREAK CALL BOB 1216 5406. 
BE THE FIRST ON YOUR BLOCK TO 
.............................
LOaT AND FOUND IN THI AD 8UIIJ). prwl-lfven to-..mlng 
SEE BOB ENJOY HIS FREEDOM . TOM POWEllS CAllE!
NEED RIDE TO NEW JERSEY CAN LEAVE 10/17 WILL SHARE EXPENSES· CAU284-5523 SEE AD ON PAGE 3
lNG OR IEJIO AN ANONYIIOUI NOTE ..~ tlhem (call277-7170) NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR ARMY PLEASE FR1.10PM.240M
M TO Ill WHBtiA80UTS TO 111 
CAUJOHNX1024
WALIH IN CAllE OF VICTIM. USC-NO GA TIX NEEDED. CALL TOM HELP! RIDE NEEDED SUN 10/27 FROM MY BROTHER NEEDS 8 USC GA'S TO HOLLERBACH COLLECT AT 312·565­CHICAGO SUB (N) SHARE USUAL
NEED 2 USC G.A.S CAll PHIL 1594 KEEP HIS JOB. BIG $$. CAll CINDY YOU'RE NOT cRAZY. IT'S NOT JUST
Loa! a HarniHon gokl -ch in SAGA on 5959. 
PLEASE CALL 2735 YOU. PLEASE CALL 
284-4116. NEEDED SPECIAL OLYMPICS BAS­-CHFIISLThurwday Oct. 10. Pieue cal 284-5490. 
R-d. NEED TICKETS FOR USC GAME CALL 
KETBALL COACHES TO COACH ONE NEED 3 NAVY GA'erea/ bad
ANN 264-4296 

OF 15 MALE OR FEMALE TEAMS. CAll ANDY 1582 0123&-5213 SECOND CITY'S COMING SECOND
LASSIE COME HOME!Our loat hund 
BILL THOMAS-289-4831. CITY'I COMING IECOND CITY'S 
a,._. by the namee of Ben••· Spot, NEED TWO USC GA'S FOR PARENTS COMING SECOND CITY'S COMING 
TO TOMMY POWERI OF DILLON NOVEMBER 7, 1985
and S!ay(u in Felch, Stay, Fetch). He'a FROM CALIFORNIA CALL CURTIS AT 
MY PARENTS ARE COMING ALL THE HALL: YOU'RE RIGHT...YOUR'RE Al­RIDERS TO TEXAS. RENTING A CAR.
half Huakia/German Shep•d and hia di• 1421 
WAY FROM PUERTO RICO! I WAYS RIGHT...! CAN NEVER BURN GOING TO AUSTIN THROUGH DAL­tingiuahing feature ia a 8-foot chain drag­
DESPERATELY NEED TWO USC GA'S YOU ... THE AD ON PAGE 3 DOESN'T LAS. $30 EA. WAY. STEVE K. 1786.
ging behind him. Look-wiae he .-mblea NEEDED: 3 Navy GA'I Call Paul at 1605 CALL GIL X3758 EVEN COUNT' I FORGOT,YOU'RE THE ONLY ONE WHO CAN PLAY PRACTI­
a WOif.REWARD OFFERED.288-5371 NO SOCCER TEAM -GOOD LUCK ON 
2 ARMY STUDENT TICKETS FOR YOUR FALL TRIP. MAYBE YOU'LLNEED A RIDE BACK TO NOTRE DAME 
Have Navy and LSU ticke'-to trade for CAL JOKES THAT ARE FUNNY. 0H AFTER FALL BREAK FROM PEORIA, ll.
OKAY, YOU WINI whoever took my blue SALE. Call284-4425 MEET SOME COWS• THANX FOR THE 
Miu. tickets. Call (502)-443-4754. WELL...i TRIED. LYNC, AREA. CAU1931.
t.ckpack from aouth dining hal 9/29, I CARD,SONG,AND FLOWERS. 
"THE ONLY PERSON YOU CAN TRUST" 
juat want to aay thanka Mll' You have NEED USC TIX CAll STEPH 3534 DO YOU HAVE ARMY GA TIX????????
given my freahman year a good atart! NOVENA TO ST. JUDE 
······························ 
RIDES OFFERED to Cleveland/Akron If you do, then ae11 them to me. I need two, (OR THOUGHT YOU COULD) 
Who needa giMHa? I wil juat aquint har­WE ME WIWNG TO TRADE; 
••·leaving Oct.20. Call Mike at 1806 and I neeo them bed. Crill JESSE at 2111 P.S. CROOKSY AND THE REST OF mouthpiece, you •e probely putting CHILDREN, INVOKE YOUR NAME. AMEN. 
der.Atao I do not need my bend mulic 01 IIIALL ANIIIALI, ST.JUDE PRAY FOR US AND ALL WHO THE SWIM CLUB AGREE WITH 
ME ... YOU'RE THE GREATEST POW­2 RIDES NEEDED BACK TO NO FROM FOR 1 UICG.A. OR ITUDENTTICKET. 5537 Daya Or 312-649-0186 Eveninga WOW!(HONOR BRIGHT) 
them to good uae! I alao hope my French OR ONE IIIIIIIIIPPI G.A. Needed Nllvy tickets ( 12) Call 312-536-SAY: THREE OUR FATHERS, THREE 
"'*8 and -•• helping you, I -HAIL MARY·s AND THREE 
-.tlng to buy a ,_ -and make a NJ ON 10/25WILL SHARE USUAL CALL GIVE Ul A CALL Collect GLORY BES FOR NINE whole ,_ aat of notee anyway. I don't MB264-5337 JEREMY OR JOHN. FRED FLINTSTONE SAYS: YABBA·
DAYS ... PUBLICATION MUST BE need an umbrella in thia terrific -'>er, 234-7412 2 Army GAa, Section 2. row 31. Cail4526 DABBA·DOAWAY WITH PASSING OUT 
PROMISED. you let it keep you dry, I Nke to ...tkln the RIDERS NEEDED TO ROCHESTER 011475. THIS NOVENA HAS NEVER BEEN rain.~ you feeltheurgetoretumanyof my AREA. CALL KATIE AT 284-4431. KNOWN TO FAIL !hinge, C8l SlOAN at 4553 01 bring to 838 NEED:GA'S AND STUDENT TX FOR Oelperately need 1 Ntovy G.A. 01 atudent VARSITY WOMEN: Good Luck in Boa­
P.E. And again, thanka alot!! HELP HELP!II I NEED A RIDE TO PIT­USC!CAU 1254 ticket. Call Jeanne 2862 
ton. We love ya! Gretch and Liz TSBURGH FOR BREAK! WILL SHARE 
HELPI! I NEED 2 G.A.'S TO THE UIC 
FOUND: ONE SET OF FOOTliAU. TICK­USUAL PLEASE CALL KATHY AT 264-I NEED UIC GA'I REACH OUT, I'LL BE THERE... with 2 GAME' IF YOU CAN HELP, CALL SYL­HOLY CRUSH HOLY CRUSH MARK ETS THE NIGHT OF THE MICH. ST. WILL PAY BIG $$, OR WILL TRADE VIAAT4144. MARK MIKE AND JOE OUR FAVORITE 
4172. ARMY GAa f01 you!! Call Steve at 1204. GAME. HAVE REASON TO BELEIVE GA'S FOR ANY OTHER HOME GAME 
Priced to sell becauae. I CAN'T HELP 
FOOTBALL COACHES! LEMANS GET THAT AN SMC STUDENT LOST THEM WANTED: ltudent intereated in manag­PLEASE CAll CATHY AT 3604 MYSELF!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY, ANGEL! HOPE TO YOUR KEGS COLD OUR GLASSES BECAUSE OF LOCATION FOUND. ing N.D. Women'a Volleyl*l Team. 
CELEBRATE WITH YOU SOON ARE READY! LOVE, "WE"RE ON THE PLEASE GIVE INFO. ABOUT WHERE T,.;ning tobegin immediately, ful reapon­ATIENTION: YOU Need 1 Army GA Call F01 Sale Army & USC STUD TX CALL LOVE SliME LINE WITH THE SAFTEY DANCE" LOST IF POSSIBLE! CAll 1074, ASK libifitiee to begin 1986 aeaon. Applica­Bilat 1775 THADAT1609 HOLY CRUSH HOLY CRUSH FOR MIKE. tions may be filled out in Volleyl*l Olfioe, 
................... . 

ACC. Oueltiona? be'-1 CUT YOUR BREAK FOR SALE-2 ARMY, USC, NAVY, MISS, 
2»6307 WHY OFF HEY ZARFS THANKS FOR A WILD PANCAKE BREAKFASTS Augusta Hall 
& LSU TIX! CALL 233-2163 OR 234-5778 
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. 2:30 and 6:30. EARLY.SELL ME YOUR USC TICKETS. WEEKEND! TWAS A WICKED SATUR­at Saint Mary'a ia aponaoring pancake REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CON­DAVE 1948 DAY (AND SUNDAY MORNING) breakluta at 9:ooa.m. bel01e the Army TACT ALICE 287-7657. INDEED! "ONLY THE GOOD DIE and USC gamee. AI you can eat f01 
CHICAGO NEED USC TIX 2 GA & 2 STUD HAVE 2 Pleaae help me! I em delperate. I YOUNG," SO HERE'S TO KIM'S LONG $1 .00. AI proceeds go to United Way. FOUND: Br8cetet outaide of Denny'a on STUD TIX FOR ALL GAMES CALL RED LIFE. BARTENDERS AREN'T
RIDEUNEI promieed my couaina I'd get them 2 tix for ITS HERE USC. Call JiM at 284-4036. Name your
Friday night. Crill Kathy at 2600 to identify. 1596 SUPPOSED TO GET SICK ON THEIR SOMEBODY LOOKED LIKE A FAG!! 
AND price. 
OWN DRINKS. THERE ARE OTHER ITS HOT! 
I NEED MillY & UIC GAa.232-14M WAYS OF KEEPING WARM IF THE KNIGHTS INN 
CAU1475 EVENINGS if you need a ride
LOST (01 preaumed taken): 1 FLOOR'S TOO COLD. LET'S DO IT 332 ZAHM ARE NOW ALL SKATEBOARD. Yeah you read ~ right, 01 need riderS to Chicago. Brought to you NEED 2 ARMY GA $20EA CAll JIM AGAIN SOMETIME,HUH? -"LOVER ZARFS;STEVE TAKE A FEW STEPS by the ND/UC CHICAGO CLU81 
my yellow, G&S akateboard eomehow 1605 PERSONALS LIPS" P.S.-1 WANT THE NEGATIVES OF OUTSIDE;ASSUME THE POSITION;NO diaappewed from my poaaeaion while I THOSE PICTURES! GUYS ARE STAYING OVERNIGHT -atudying at the fibrary on the night of HEY YOU BIG BUCK8-NO WHAMMY! I NEED ....................................................... (HA!HA!);ANYONE FOR SOME TASTY 10/14/85. If you have it.01 know of ita ARE YOU GOING BACK TO JERSEY EIGHT Oon·r be dismayed at good-byea. A OHNOOOOOOI DOUGHNUTS OR PERHAPS A FEW whereeouta, p1eua (and 1 do mean TONIGHT OR FRIDAY? IF YOU HAVE A GA'S FOR USC GAME. PLEASE CAll farewell is neceNary before you can HICKEYS?;NICE COUGH IN AZAR'S!! ~) C8l JIM at 1736 01 atop by 707 SPRINGSTEEN AT 2043 meetag~n. My little brother broke hie colar1lone and 
UTILE ROOM, I STILL NEED A RIDE. 
PLEASE CAll JEFF AT 2013 
GRACE HALL. REWARD BEING OF­my family can't come up f01 the Army 
FERED! And meeting ag~n. alter momenta or game. HEY JAIME-WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN 
NEED USC TICKETS! YOU GOT THE #letimea, is certain 101 thoae who are I've got3 GAl f01 aale atface value! ? SEE YOU IN NYC. ANN HELP! I LOST A GOLD CLADDAGH TICKETS; I GOT THE MONEY! CALL friendo. Call Mary at 3855 f01 thia tremendoua bar­RING (TWO HANDS HOLDING A FOR SALE JERRY AT 1654. gaintodey! CHAS. NEVER BELIEVE WHAT YOU CROWNED HEART, IRELAND READ AND NEVER GIVE UP. STAMPED ON INSIDE). COULD BE NEED 2 USC GA'S!!!III!!!!!WILL PAY lllarla and Klm'a auo.tatllea: ANYWHERE:eap. Lewia, O'Shag/Decio WELL-CALL MOLLY, 2870 1. The Grand Slam, an outstanding value. Tim, I had a really good time at the SYR Morri-.y •-· Hu IMMEASURABLE 1973 SAAB 99 Mechanicaly aound. FWD OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. .. 2. "Hey' Thia ian·t even Hotlandaiae Friday night. I'd ~ke to go out with you SENTIMENTLE VALUE! If found makee it a-me in anow. Xlnt winter NEED USC GA'S!! CALL MARK AT 288· CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., t aauce, it' a just ch-." T.H. again. Give me a call~ you are intereated, 
PLEASE C8l 112108. THANK YOU!! -fOI th-parta. Bil 233-8788 5355 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. JiH. 
Perfect record is first-time thing for Payton 
LAKE FOREST, Ill.-Don't ask Walter Payton how he feels about the Chicago Bears being 6-0 In the National Football League. 
"I've never been in this situation before," said the league's all-time leading rusher. "Not in high school, not in college. It's all new to me." 
Payton gained 132 yards and scored two touchdowns in Sunday's 26-1 0 victory over the San Francisco 49ers. 
It was the 65th time in his 11-year career that he has gone over 100 yards in a game, but he acknowledged there is added pressure with the team's surprising winning streak. 
"There's more pressure every week," Payton said. "Every game becomes more pressing. It's something you have to get used to." 
Is he surprised at the Bears' great start? 
"I'm surprised every day I wake up. We've accomplished a lot through hard work and we can't let down. Our coaches won't allow this team to let down." 
Payton, who seven years ago said he planned to play only"three or four more years," refuses to say how much longer he plans to stay in the game. 
"Any time you can play football after a few years is icing on the cake," said the 31-year-old Payton, one ofthe league's most durable players during a career in which he has amassed 13,731 yards rus­hing. 
"I'm happy. We've been a team that has struggled. Finally, we're here and I want to be a small part ofstaying here." 
The Bears no longer are the one-dimensional team ofleaner years, when they had little going for them but the churning legs of Walter Payton. 
Quarterbackjim McMahon has seen to that, with his ability to get points quickly with the passing game. 
"Jim adds a certain flare to the game," said Payton. "With his presence, a lot ofteams can't key on certain situations. We have a lot oftalent and teams no longer can key on us." 
Royals 
continuedfrom page 16 
pitching they needed for the third straight game. 
In the final three games of the series, Toronto stranded 26 runners, 1 7 in scoring position. The Blue Jays, who hit just a shade under .300 with runners in scoring position during the regular season, stranded nine runners in their final game of the year, including six in scoring posi­tion. 
Saberhagen, the Royals ace and one ofonly two 20-game winners in the American League, was forced to leave after three innings. He bruised his pitching hand in the first inning while trying to grab an infield hit by Willie Upshaw. 


Sports Briefs 
The ND soccer team took a beating yesterday at Akron, as the Zips rolled over the Irish, 8-1. Joe Sternberg put Notre Dame on the scoreboard first with his sixth goal of the season, but the Zips came back with five goals in I 0 minutes. The loss was the worst in Notre Dame soccer's nine-year history. The Irish, who will head South during break for three games, now have a 4-9-4 record. ­
The Obseroer 
The ND/SMC Ski Club will not be meeting tonight as previously announced. Call Tony at 283-4057 for more informa­tion. -The Obseroer 
A pep rally will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. Guest speakers will include members of the 1935 football team and offensive line coach Jim Higgins. -The Obseroer 
SMC intramural tennis tournament entries will be accepted at the Angela Athletic Facility until tomorrow. Both singles and doubles matches will be played. -The Obsen1er 
The ND basketball team will hold scrimmages each of the next two Saturdays. The Irish will work out at 3:30p.m. this Saturday, immediately following the Army football game. The team also will scrimmage at 4:30 p.m. on Oct. 26, immediately fol­lowing the USC football game. Both scrimmages will be in the ACC and free to the public. -The Obsen1er 
The NO-Army football game will be broadcast Saturday on WVFI AM-64. "The Irish Today" pregame show will air at 1 1 a.m., followed by play-by-play with Pete Pranica and Frank Mastro at I I :40 a.m. -The Obsen•er 
The SMC trackand field team will be meeting 
on Wednesday, Oct. 30. at 8:30p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
All Saint Mary's students who are interested in the varsity track and 
field team should attend. -The Obsen•er 
A fun run will be held with the theme "fun outside betore it snows" at 4 p.m. on Tuesday, Oct. 29 at the East Gate. Registration will take place in the dining halls and at the race site. All are welcome to participate by paying a S2 entry fee.-The Obsen1er 
Thursday, October 17, 1985 -page 13 
SMC tennis team ends with loss, heads to NAIA district tournament 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN were a difficult team to play because Sports Writer they were just waiting for us to err. "Shaun Boyd played a really good 
The Saint Mary's tennis team match; she kept her concentration," returned home Tuesday after falling added I..averie. to Manchester College 5-4 in its 
"I was pleased with both the No. 1closing match ofthe fall season. Con­and the No. 3 doubles teams. Theytributing to the Belle's score were both showed a lot ofimprovement,"singles team members No. 2 Shaun said I..averie. 

Boyd, 6-4, 6-2 and No. 6 Charlene Szajko, 6-4, 6-0. Victorious doubles 
The Belles are looking forward to the district tournament at Anderson, teams for Saint Mary's were the No. 1 Ind., this weekend. The seedingteam of Bridget Heraty and Anne positions have not yet beenDimberio, 6-4, 6-3 and the No. 3 determined. The team will an­team of Sheila Campbell and Kim nounce its seeds for the tournamentDrahota, 7-5, 7-6. 
tomorrow night after the meeting of
"Manchester plays consistently, the NAIA seeding committee.
and we're used to playing ag­gressively," commented Belles' "I've got a pretty good idea of Head Coach Debbie I..averie. "They what the seeding positions will be," 

Cards 
continued/rom page 16 
homer by Mike Marshall in the eighth. 
·Facing the Dodgers' ace reliever, Tom Niedenfuer, the Cardinals started their winning rally with one out in the ninth on a single by Willie McGee, who came into the game with only four hits in 21 playoff at bats. 
McGee stole second and Nieden­fuer then walked Smith, whose ninth-inning homer in Game 5 had beaten the Dodger reliever. 
Abouncing ball to first by Tommy Herr sent the runners to second and third, and Clark, the Cardinals' cleanup hitter, hit the first pitch deep into the left field stands as Dodger leftfielder Pedro Guerrero watched helplessly. 
Guerrero threw his mitt to the ground in disgust and the Cardinals poured out of their dugout to welcome Clark, who had only one previous RBI in the series. 
The hit put the Cardinals in only their second World Series since 
CORKTOWNE Ll UORS,
INC. 
OUTH BEND AVE. 
State Road 23, ~ mile west of Martin's Supermarket 
StockUJl for Tailgate Parties! 
•Christian 
Brothers Wine 1.5 Liters 2 for $7.00 

•Bailey's 
Irish Cream 1 Liter $20.89 



eKamchatka Vodka 1.75 Liter $8.99 
• Hammes Regular and Lite $5.99 a case 
divisional play was instituted in 1969. The Cardinals won the 1982 World Series over Milwaukee in seven games. 
The winning pitcher yesterday was rookie right-hander Todd Wor­rell, who gave up Marshall's eight­inning homer, and left-bander Ken Dayley pitched the ninth inning to save it for the Cardinals. 
This was a contest settled bet­ween the bullpens ofthe two teams. Dodgers starter Orel Hershiser worked 6 1-3 innings and the St. Louis starter, Joaquin Andujar, went six innings, neither pitching very ef­fectively. 
Hershiser beat Andujar in Game 2 in Los Angeles, but that was the last game the Dodgers would win in this series. The Cardinals swept three at home, winning 4-2, 12-2 and 3·2 befure returning to Los Angeles for what would be the final game ofthe playoffs. 
Hershiser gave up a run in the third, then was chased in the seventh after McGee's two-run single. Andujar gave up runs in the first and second innings, and Bill Madlock's solo homer, his third of the playoffs, capped a two-run fifth. 
Besides his home run, Madlock also drove in a run with a single, and Mariano Duncan had three hits, an 
RBI  and  scored  twice  for  the  
Dodgers.  
In  the  Cardinal  seventh,  Smith  

drove"in the tying run in a dramatic remat~h against Niedenfuer. Smith had hit the first left-handed home run of his career to beat Niedenfuer and the Dodgers in the bottom ofthe ninth inning in Game 5. 
Darrell Poner and Tito Landrum got the Cardinals' seventh going with consecutive singles off Her­shiser. A bouncer to first by pinch­hitter Steve Braun advanced the runners, and McGee punched a two­run single up the middle, chasing Hershiser. 
That brought on Niedenfuer for the rematch with Smith. Smith took a ball and a strike from Niedenfuer before ripping a line drive into the right-field corner. For a split second, it looked like it might also go out of the park, but it bounced up against the fence for a triple, and McGee scored the tying run from first base. 
said I..averie, "but I'm not sure be· 
cause Saint Mary's does not have a 
representative on the seeding com­
mittee." 
Probable candidates for high seeds are the No. 2, 3 and 6 singles players, Boyd, Drahota and Szajko, respectively. 
"Sheila Campbell and Shaun Boyd have a good chance ofgetting a high seed position as a doubles team," noted I..averie. 
I..averie asserted that her team is physically prepared fur districts, but they have to get themselves men­tally prepared. 
"If we go out there with con­fidence in ourselves and know how good we are, we'll win." 
Niedenfuer walked Tommy Herr 

intentionally and then got out ofthe 
inning by fanning Clark and Andy 
Van Slyke in succession. 
The Dodgers were clinging to a 2­

1 lead when Duncan came out to 
lead off the fifth inning against An­
dujar. Duncan hit a high bouncer off 
the hard dirt in front ofthe plate and 
toward the mound. Andujar ap­
peared to lose the ball in the bright 
sun, and when he dropped it fur an 
error, Duncan was safe at first. 
Duncan then stole second, went 

to third on a ground ball and scored 
on a sacrifice fly to center by Guer­
rero. The rainbow throw to home by 
McGee was well late of Duncan's ar­
rival at the plate. 
Madlock, the next hitter, then took a called strike from Andujar before lofting a pitch into the left­field bleachers, making the score 4­
1. Madlock, acquired in trade from Pittsburgh on Aug. 31, had seven playoff RBI. 
The day started poorly for An­dujar and quickly got worse. When he took the mound to start the game, the resin bag fell apart in his hands, then he caused a 10-minute delay to fill in some holes in front of the pitching rubber. · 
When he finally was ready to pitch, Duncan led off with a double down the right-field line and went to third on a fly ball to deep left field by Ken I..andreaux. After Guerrero popped out, Madlock got a single up the middle that scored Duncan, and the Dodgers led 1-0. 
Andujar pitched his. first 1-2-3 in­ning in the third, getting Guerrero to pop up, striking out Madlock on three pitches and inducing Marshall to line out to Landrum in left. 
Landrum was starting his third straight playoff game in left field, substituting for the injured Vince Coleman. Coleman hurt his left leg before Game 4 Sunday when it got caught under the metal cylinder that automatically rolls the tarp onto the field at Busch Stadium. 
Coleman took batting practice Wednesday, but Cardinals Manager Whitey Herzog said before the game, "He's obviously too sore to play today, and if there Is a seventh game, he would be questionable." 





EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'JIAilE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
,.__ 

277-6805 
The Observer Thursday, October 17, 1985-page 14 
Indiana meet this weekend 
Runner Warth wants to be first 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 
For senior cross-country runner Tom Warth, second best in state championships is getting boring. 
As a senior at McQuaidJesuit High School in Rochester, N.Y., his cross­country team finished second in the state. Warth also placed second in the mile in the state track champion­ships. 
As a sophomore at Notre Dame, he placed second in the 10,000 meter race at the Indiana State track meet. The team also happened to finish second in the meet. 
As a junior, the Notre Dame cross­country team won the Indiana Inter­collegiate state meet. But, as Warth's luck would have it, he did not run in that race. 
Tomorrow, the Irish travel to Bloomington for the Indiana Inter­collegiate state meet. Warth, who will definitely run, believes that things have to change. 
"I'm tired of seconds," he said. "I want the team to win this state meet. I couldn't take another second." 
Warth, known as "Silky" to his teammates, is not one to quit. He is in his fourth year as a cross-country runner but only his first as one ofthe top seven runners. 
"The last two seasons, sophomore and junior, were very frustrating," Warth noted. "I was always on the threshold of breaking into the top seven, but then I would have one or two bad races." 
Warth began his running career his freshman year at McQuaid Jesuit by joining the cross-country team. He enjoyed it so much that he later joined both the indoor and outdoor track teams. He has never stopped running both sports. 
"I feel that cross country and track compliment each other," said 

Interhall 
continuedfrompage 16 
Simon and the O.C. Crime defense. 
In their 3-0 win Saturday against Keenan, Tom Walker scored twice and Tom White chipped in with a goal of his own to lead the Crime's attack. Manny Maldanado and Dave Simon led the way Monday night against Zahm 'A', in their 2-0 season finale. The experienced Crime are looking forward to playing in the new double elimination playoff for­mat and should go far after playing in one of the tougher divisions in the program. 
Stanford was the third undefeated team after the regular season, taking their 5-0 mark all the way to the top of the East European League. On Sunday, the Studs took it to the Dil­lon I squad and won, 2-0. 
"It was our toughest game of the season, but it was also fun to play," said Stanford captain Jim Byrne. "Tom Zibelli's second-half goal was the best I've seen in all my years of interhall play." 
Dave Stevenson provided the ot­her goal in the first half. 
Stevenson and Zibelli teamed up again on Monday night, as Zibelli notched a hat trick and Stevenson added the balance in Stanford's 5-0 pasting ofHoly Cross 'B'. 
Although the Studs are talented, their 5-0 mark is probably the weakest of the three undefeated teams. Byrne openly wonders about his team's strength in comparison to other playoff teams. 
Warth. "I love the variety of cross country, running on different courses every week, and I love the precision oftrack, running BOO's and 1600's." 
Warth planned on attending Notre Dame. Though not recruited, he contacted Irish cross country Head CoachJoe Plane several times. Piane would ask about Warth's times and set goals for him during track season. 
"I was also a two miler in high school," explained Warth. "Plane said I should be running a 9:20 two­mile. The first time out, that's what I ran,a9:20." 
Piane has watched Warth develop over the years through hard work. 
"I told him that he would have to invest a year or two to develop," noted Plane. "That's what he really needed. 
"Warth, along with Jim Tyler and John Magill, are three of the most dedicated runners," continued Plane. "They have been extremely faithful to the program. Warth and Magill are especially a tribute to hard work. They justdon't have the wall-to-wall talent like other run­ners." 
In the four years Warth has been a member ofthe team, he has seen the team evolve. 
"In freshman year it really wasn't fun to run," he said. "It seemed we were competing against each other instead of with each other. But things gradually changed around, and the team has held together." 
Warth, a government major, wanted to spend a semester in Lon­don during his junior year. After dis­cussing the matter with Piane, Warth decided to go the second semester and miss track season rat­her than missing cross country. 
In this his senior year, Warth sees his role on the team as a leader by example, though he is not a co­captain. He also expects a certain level of performance from himself every time he runs. 
"Really I try to run · with Markezich, Magill and Garrett," he said. "Basically I just want to be a better part of the group." 
Warth has run well thus far. His best finish was in the National Cat­holic meet, where he placed 16th overall and third on the team. 
He is definitely looking forward to the state meet tomorrow as he would like something better than second-best. The competition, though, promises not to be too kind. 
Indiana is the featured team in this meet, powered by five strong recruits and ranked 15th in the na­tion. However, the Hoosiers were recently upset by Purdue in the Mar­quette Invitational so the Boiler­makers also promise to be strong competition. 
Piane hopes that the Notre Dame Invitational disaster is behind the team. 
"We have got to run more ag­gressively as a group," noted Piane. "Ifwe are as aggressive as we were in the National Catholic, then we should do alright. If we don't, we'll get hammered. 
The team should be boosted by the return of Mike Collins to the lineup. Collins, who has missed the first three races with a foot injury, has finally been cleared to run. Dan Garrett, however, still remains sidelined with a hip injury. 
The following Friday, the Irish will travel to Indianapolis for the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championships. Notre Dame, Oral Roberts, and Loyola (Chi.) favored in that race. 
Senior cross-country runner Tom Warth, sboum here in action earlier in the season, should figure prominently in the Indiana Intercollegiate state meet this weekend. Pete Gegen features Warth andpreviews the meet in his story above. 
******************* 
THL DrNASIT [0NTINUE5 ... 
N.n M1KtTBAlL ~UO~NJ TO THf AU. 
tic~et diStribUtion: oct. ZB-31. if JOU htlVent rewved w:et aFtmatiOOJ come to 3ate 10 tOdd~ or rridaJ. 


LET'S ~LJUKRE(T 
THL SIXTH MAN Of I'J!\[ Q1.1f
• 
rb 
****************** 
TONIGHT: $ 1.00 IMPORTS!!! 
0•• 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X6~~~~~..c 
It's a Boy! 10-16-85 
FRIDAY LUNCH: Lunch from 11:30 -2:00 Pizze -Subs -Beer

81/2 pounds 10 p.m. 



']I['4(Jt~CJl~-----------------------------------------T-h_u_r_s_d.ay_,_o_c_t_o_b_e_r_l_7_,_1_9_8_5___
P_a_g_e_l_5 

Zeto 
HAVE" YOO READ THE PN'E'R RECENTL'1' ?! 

Bloom County 

HAVE" YOU HEARD'WHAr THE"I''RE SAYtNG? 




The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  
1 Gladiator's  
milieu  
6 Nautical  
command  
11 Moppet  
14 Food fishes  
15 Musical beat  
16 Sign  
17 Famous  
Institution  
19 Sgt.  
20 Make lace  
21 Campltem  
22 Washer cycles  
24 Shows contempt  ~+--+­ 
26 Steady flow  
28 Coarse file  
30 Let-up  
33 lll·flttlng  
36 Warning  
38 Anderson's  
"High-"  
39 Biblical  
patriarch  
40 Petitions  
41 Coachman's  
command  
42 Ocean: abbr.  
43 Ryeforone  
44 Overhead  6 Like-of  
45 Interferes  bricks  
47 Cross over  7 Jacket slits  
49 Takes care of  8 "What a good  
51 Ancient Gr.  boy-!"  
area  9 Boxers  
55 Delinquent  10 Most ritzy  
57 High rating  11 Metal crafts·  
59 Kind of session  men  
60 Yale man  12 Formerly  
61 Small bits  13 Ring wins  
64 Elevation:  18 Meeting: abbr.  
abbr.  23 Nod off  
65 One who  25 Work units  
snlggles  27 Walks over  
66 Singer Ford  29 Most ashen  
67 Stadium cheer  31 Spree  
68 Pullman sound  32 Time periods  
69 Go formal  33 Building Item  
34 Before: pre!.  
DOWN  35 Author Oliver  

1 Helpers: abbr. 37 Meadowland 2 Kind of nose 40 Newspaper 3 Best people workers 4 Clear 41 Custom 5 The butt stops 43 Glorifies 
here 44 Provided food 

Wednesday's Solution 

46 Agnus-55 Hitchcock's 48 Window section "-Window" 50 Western 56 Actress Raines 52 Miss Dunne 58 Czech river 53 Major or Minor 62 Workmen's gp. 54 Church parts 63 Blunder 
The Far Side Gary f.arson 
Berke Breathed 
Kevin Wal~h 
"Puuuuut the caaooaat ouuuuuuuuut ... Puuuuut 




Campus 
•12:00 
P.M. · Lecture, "Liberation Theology", Dr. Dennis Goulet, University of Notre Dame, Room 1 0 1 Law School, Sponsored by Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government 

•5:30 
P.M.· Spanish Club Dinner, South Dining Hall -Right Side, Sponsored by Spanish Club 

•7:00 
P.M. · Meeting, Uttle Theater, LaFortune Student Center, Sponsored by Young Democrats 

•7:00 
P.M. ·Thursday Night FUm Series, "Enjo", 


Loft 

Notre Dame Turke·y with Dressing BeefStuffed Pepper Hungarian Noodle Bake Cheese Steak Sandwich 

TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M.  16 22 16 22  NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News MASH Three's Company  
7:00P.M.  16 22 28 46  Bill Cosby Show Magnum, PI The Fall Guy Fall Telethon  

7:30P.M.  16  198~ League Championship Series 7 National League West  
8:00P.M. 9:00P.M.  22 28 34 22 28  Simon and Simon Lady Blue 34 Front Knots Landing 20/20  

Dinner Menus 

the caaoaat ouuuuuuut ..." 
•7:00 
P.M. · Fellowship Meeting, Commoner Room, Flanner Hall, Sponsored by F<:llowshlp of Christian Athletes 

•7:00, 
9:15 and 11:30 P.M.· SAB FUm, "The God· father", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1.~0 

•8:10 
P.M. · Theater Production, "End of the World", Washington Hall, Tickets 14.00 and 16.00 


Saint Mary's Roast Beefau Jus BeefTaco with Hot Sauce Vegetarian Quiche Italian Sausage Sandwich 
!O:OOP.M. 
!0:30P.M. 
ll:OOP.M. 
!2:00A.M. l:OOA.M. 

34 Mystery: "Rumpole and the 
Show Folk" 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Masterpiece Theater: "The 
Good Soldier" 

16 NewsCenter 16 22 Nlghtheat/CBS Late Movie: "Night ofthe Claw" 
28 ABC News Nlghdine 16 Tonight Show 28 Eye On HoUywood 
16 David Letterman Show 
16 All In~ Family 
22 Nlghtwatch 
Thursday, October 17, 1985 -page· 16

SRorts 
Cardinals and Royals will meet in World Series 
K.C. overcomes 3-1 deficit, topples Toronto in game 7 
TORONTO -The Kansas City Royals, the team that would not quit, completed a stunning turnaround last night by beating the Toronto Blue jays 6-2 behind jim Sundberg's four RBI to win the decisive seventh game of the American League playoffs and advance to the World Series. 
The victory set up an all-Missouri, Show-Me Showdown in the World Series starting Saturday night in Kansas City between the Royals and the St. Louis Cardinals, who won the National League pennant earlier yes­terday by beating Los Angeles, 7-5. 
"fbe Royals iced their comeback from a three games-to-one deficit when Sundberg drove in three runs with a bases-loaded triple off the top of the right field wall in the sixth in­ning. 
Thus ended Canada's hopes for the first World Series outside the United States. 
In any other year since divisional playoffs began in 1969, Toronto would have won, three games to one. But this year, for the first time, it was a best-of-seven format, not best­of-five, and the Royals took full advantage of the extra two games. 
Sundberg finished the series with a team-high six RBI, one more than teammate George Brett, the playoff Most Valuable Player who had eight hits including three home runs in 23 at-bats. 
Kansas City's victory reversed AL east dominance in recent league playoffs. The 1980 Royals were the last AL west team to win a playoff and the Oakland teams of 1972·73· 74 were the only other Western representatives to win since divisional play began. 
Only four times in World Series history have teams rallied from 3-1 deficits. Of the 33 clubs that trailed by that margin, only Pittsburgh in 1925 and 1979, the New York Yankees in 1958 and the Detroit Tigers in 1968 came back to win. 
The Royals won the game by rip­ping Dave Stieb, who led the league in earned run average this season. Stieb, who won the opener and pitched powerfully despite getting no decision in Game 4, left the game after Sundberg's triple. 
Stieb was charged with six'earned runs, his second-highest total of the season. 
Kansas City starter Bret Saber­hagen, winner Charlie Leibrandt and Dan Quisenberry, who got the final two outs, gave the Royals the clutch 
see ROYALS, page 12 



Clark homer seals victory for St. Louis 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES · jack Clark, ac­quired in the offseason to put some power in a lineup built on speed, hit a three-run home run with two out in the ninth inning to give St. Louis a 7-5 victory over Los Angeles yester­day and send the Cardinals to their 14th World Series. 
Twice, the Cardinals fought back 
from deficits to beat the Dodgers in 
the sixth game of the National 
League playoffs for the right to meet 
the winner of the American league 
playoff between Kansas City and 
Toronto. 

The Cardinals thus completed a 
four-game sweep of the Dodgers 
after losing the first two games. 
Ozzie Smith, the playoff Most Valuable Player who had won the ftfth game with a ninth-inning homer, capped a three-run seventh with a run-scoring triple that tied the score 4-4, but the Dodgers regained the lead on a lead-off 
see CARDS, page 13 

Division winners decided as interhall soccer season ends 
previously undefeated Howard kickoff. St. Ed's never recovered, and of the season to cap off a stellar un­Cavanaugh's flat showing last Sun­By TERRY LYNCH team, defeating them to the tune of Grace walked away with the upset defeated season. Last Thursday's 4-1 day. Sports Writer 4-I and raising doubts about their win. victory over Grace 'B' was only the The team to beat once the playoffs playoff possibilities. However, St. The winner of the North second time Holy Cross was scored begin after October break will be 
Three out offour division winners Ed's, the only other undefeated team American division may be decided upon this season, and even that goal West European Division Champion were decided this week now that in the North American, was having by the outcome of the Howard-St. was caused by a Holy Cross O.C. Crime. The Crime not only the men's interhall soccer regular troubles of its own. Grace 'A' pulled Ed's game, which has yet to be defensive miscue. finished the regular season by going season has drawn to a close. The an upset oftheir own against St. Ed's played. Grace 'A' ( 4-1) will also undefeated, but had to do everyone remaining division hinges on a res-on Sunday, leaving both teams with a figure into the playoff picture and if The Hogs finished up their season else one better by being the only cheduling of the Howard-St. Ed's record of 3·1. St. Ed's beats Howard, Grace 'A' will with an unexpected 4-0 win over team to shut out all five of their op· match. After St. Ed's had tied the game at win the division. Cavanaugh, who figured to put up a ponents. Much of the credit for that 
Upsets were in the making this 1-1 with nine minutes to go in major challenge to the Hogs' un­achievement lies behind the out­past week in the North American regulation play, Greg Tice of Grace In the South American League, the defeated record and look for a standing play of goaltender Dave League. On Saturday morning, Mor-'A' capped offa furious charge with a Hogs of Holy Cross came through in playoffberth. However, those hopes rissey 'A' jumped all over a goal coming 50 seconds after the fine fashion in their final two games now seem in jeapardy due to see INTERHALL, page 14 

Things are looking better for Irish receivers 
Monday evening, after two ofhis wide receivers had suf­fered minor injuries during practice, Notre Dame offensive coordinator Mike Stock wondered aloud ifthe Irish might be better off using a full-house backfield in Saturday's game against Army. It wasn't a serious thought, but with the in­jury problems that have hampered the wideouts lately, it might not have been a bad idea to. put more running backs on the field and protect the receivers that were left. 
Fortunately for the Irish, things have gotten a little better since then. The Monday injuries · split end Reggie Ward's bruised shoulder'and flanker Pat Cusack's twisted ankle · apparently were not serious, and both should be back in time for the Army game. 
Split end Tim Brown, meanwhile, has been recovering well from the ankle injury he suffered against Purdue and figures to see some playing time Saturday. Add Alvin Miller, who appears to be rounding into form after a pre-season injury, and the picture appears even brighter. 
"With the stretch of seven games that we have coming up, it's good to be over the injury problems and to have a solid three-man rotation," says Stock, referring to Brown, Ward, and Miller. "They've all been hurt, but the nature of the injuries is such that those players won't be kept out of games. Some will just have to play sparingly." 
Ward currently leads the team with 11 receptions for I 58 yards, while Brown is second with nine catches for 150 yards., despite sitting out last week's game. Miller, who has played in only two games so far, chalked up four ofhis five receptions last week against Air Force. 
Stock can take consolation in the fact that Cusack and sophomore Tony Eason will be there to pick up the slack when needed, and both have done that so far. Eason, who started at split end in the season opener against Michigan, has hauled in six passes for 101 yards and has Notre Dame's only touchdown reception of the season. Cusack, who got 

Larry Burke 
Football Notebook 
the starting nod at flanker in the Air Force game, has caught three passes in '85. 
"Injury problems are going to come up," says Stock, "so it helps to have quality personnel like Eason and Cusack that can step in and do the job." 
Freshman Mark Green has also proven that he is capable of doing the job when called upon. Green recently made the move from tailback to flanker, and while he still has a lot to learn, he has shown good speed and an impressive ability to catch passes in traffic. 
"We moved Mark to wide receiver for two reasons," ex­plains Stock. "First, so that he could travel with the team at that position while being a return man on special teams, and second because we felt we had depth at the tailback spot at that time. As things turned out, Alonzo jeffersonwas injured soon after that, but what we wanted to do at that time was find a spot for Mark where he could help the team right away." 
Green caught four passes for 39 yards against Air Force when he was pressed into duty as a backup to Cusack at flanker because ofBrown's injury. 
"Against Air Force, Mark made a couple of exceptional catches on third down that helped us keep drives alive," Stock recalls. "Two of his catches were exemplary · there were defenders right in the vicinity to make the hit im· mediately after the catch. 
"He's been a quick learner at the position, but he still has 
to get his feet wet -he's got a lot more to learn. He's 
progressing well, though, better than most freshmen 
would, and he's definitely a gifted athlete. 
"He's a wide receiver right now, but down the road he could end up back at running back again." 
While the situation at wide receiver has been good and appears to be getting better, the tight end spot has been a weakness in the Irish attack. junior Tom Rehder will be the starter there Saturday, backed up by freshman Andy Heck. junior joel Williams, the starter in Notre Dame's last two games, has dropped to the number three spot. 
Stock assessed the performance ofthe tight ends so far as "fair," but noted that no one position has been the cause of Notre Dame's offensive problems this season. 
"It's been a variety of things," explains Stock. "Against Air Force, we had things happen in the 'red area,' inside their 20-yard line. It's just a matter of getting every phase, every particular aspect together and getting them on the same page to achieve total efficiency. We've got to eliminate mental mistakes and move toward cohesive­ness." 
EXTRA POINTS -Tailback Allen Pinkett needs only 50 more rushing yards to pass Vagas Ferguson's 3,472-yard total and become Notre Dame's all-time leading rus­her. Kickoff for the Army game is slated for 11:38 
a.m. local time. The Television Enterprise will televise the game, along with USA Network and WNDU. Injury report: Inside linebacker Mike Kovaleski (torn thigh muscle vs. Air Force) has been doing some running this week but is still listed as questionable for Army. Outside linebacker Mike Larkin (sprained ankle vs. Michigan State) and Brown are listed as probable for Saturday. 










