
.Activity in Florida-page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 11 5 the indqx-ndent ~tudent new~papt-r ~en ing 110tn dame and .'>aint man·~ 
FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1985 
WVFI ra.dio selects new station heads for 1985-86 
ByELIZABETH FLOR Mar1ager/Program LJm:ctor Steve Daniel, succeeding Kurt Holzber­production director, director of ingly poor quality ..." Copy Editor Wimmer said. lein, has goals of improved student remote operation and Nocturne reception ofWVFI as well as provid­Nighttlight director, plans to retrain AU members of the Executive 
The WSND/WVFI Executive Daniel, a junior accounting major ing an alternative to local radio sta­all disc jockeys, improve shift re­Board are equal in terms ofvotes and Board chose Reginald Daniel as from Atlanta, will assume office April tions. sponsibility, improve the visibility of ~tation power, Wimmer said. Before WVFI station manager/program 1, along with other executive board head staff with office hours and his promotion, Gagliardi was assis­director March 7 by popular vote. members News Director Vito "Because I was one of WVFI's loosen up the musical fbrmat. tant news director of WVFI and Ap­
The board did not select a station Gagliardi, a junior government and most vocal critics this year, I have "--, plebaum was on engineering staff. manager for WSND for 1985-86 be­alpa major from Atlanta; Sports often talked about possible solutions Yet, he said, ''It is a complete Pranica was re-elected as sports cause of a lack of qualified applica­Dirc:ctor. Pete Pranica, an 'junior to our problems. Now that I am in a waste of student effort, student lis­director tions. As soon as a "reasonable Amc:rican studies major from Clark, position to do something about tenership time, and a complete joke "Notre Dame has an excellent number of suitable applications are NJ.; and Chief Engineer Pete Ap­them and with enthusiasm and of all sutdent radio has stood for sports tradition and I have and will found" an FM station plebaum, a fourth year electrical en­vigor, I am attacking the problems here at Notre Dame to put a station continue to bring the excellence of managerI program director will also gim:ering and history major from St. head-on," Daniel said. on the air that cannot be heard, what it to the students," Pranica com­be chosen. WSND Station Louis, Mo. Daniel, who has been a'lSistant little that can be heard is ofdisgust-mented. 
Annual jazz festival attracts college bands across country 
Speclal to The Observer Note from the United States Air Combo, Fredonia Big Band, and the Force Academy as the guest band. Northern Iowa Big Band. 
America's longest running Col­Other participants are Notre legiate Jazz Festival comes again to Dame Big Band, American Conser­Appearing during the 7:30 c.."Ve­Notre Dame April 12 and 13 when vatory of Music Combo, Massachu­ning session will be the Virginia 16 musical groups compete for the setts Institute of Technology Big Commonwealth Big Band, Fredonia approval of a panel of noted jazz Band, Capital University Trio, and Alternative Jazz Experience Combo, practitioners. the University of Massachusetts Medium Rare Big Band from the 
(Amherst Big Band), all performing New England Conservatory, William 

The student-run activity in Stepan at the Friday session beginning at Patterson Reid Chamber 1 Combo, Center attracts major groups from 7:30p.m. A highlight of this evening Eastman School of Music Big Band, several of the nation's colleges and is the "Judges' Jam" which begins at and the Airmen ofNote. The top two this year will feature the Airmen of approximately 11:30 p.m. and con­high school bands will perform be­
tinues through early Saturday. tween 6:30 and 7:30p.m. Dan Morganstern, nationally Saturday afternoon's .session, known jazz writer and critic, will

Reagan sees rto difference between 
beginning at 1, will feature perfor­return for his 15th festival. He will mances by Ohio State Big Band, Mic­be joined in the judge's box by higan State Big Band, Notre Dame saxophonist Jimmy Heath, pianist

Chernenko a11d Gorbachev views 
Stanley Cowell, drummer Butch Associated Press man Monday, one day after the death group. "I look forward to dealing 
Miles, bassist Dave Holland and ofK[)nstantin Chernenko, 73. with him." 
guitarist Gene Bertoncini.

Correction

WASHINGTON President The president said he believes the Reagan said yesterday he does not The president, after an address to Soviet Union "is in a different frame Previous judges have included Because of a reporting error, a
think the new Soviet leader, Mikhail aboLit 100 members ofthe Magazine of mind" than in the past. Its repre­"Cannonball" Adderly, Herbie Han­
quote in a front-page Observer

Gorbachev, is fundamentally differ­Publisher's Association, was asked sentatives have returned to the cock and trumpter Wynton Marsalis,
article yesterday was incorrectly

ent from the older men that have whtther he knew if the new Soviet negotiating table out ofa realization 
winner ofa Grammy Award. attributed. Statements concern­
Tickets, priced at S5 fur Friday, S3

governed the Soviet Union. leader was any less ideological or that they must compete with ing the Notre Dame student ac­fundamentally different from the America's strength, Reagan said. 
for Saturday afternoon and $4 for tivity fee were from a"I don't think there is any leaders of the older generation that "I believe they are really going to Saturday evening, are available at the 

spokeswoman for Father David

evidence that he is less dominated preceeded him. try and, with us, negotiate a reduc­Notre Dame Record Store and 
Tyson, vice president for student

by their system, their philosophy, tion of arms," Reagan said. "This is Stepan Center before each perfor­affairs, not froJ.?l Tyson himself. 
than any of the others," Reagan said "It isn't true that I don't trust the first time that they themselves 
mance, and South Bend Bonnie of the 54-year-old Gorbachev, who anyone under 70," Reagan quipped, have said they would like to see the 
Doon outlets. An all-session pa'lS is was named Communist Party chair-prompting a hearty laugh from the elimination ofnuclear weapons." 
also available for 58. 



U.S. pulls '~itizens out from Lebanon 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON · The White 
House said today some U.S. embassy 
personnel have been evacuated 
from Beirut temporarily because of 
"unsettled conditions." 
Presidential spokesman Larry Speakes refused to say how many people had been evacuated but did say that the U.S. ambassador, Reginald Bartholomew, remains at his post. 
"We continue to be concerned about the safety of our official per­sonnel in Lebanon," Speakes said. "We are taking action when we deem it necessary. 
"At the moment, we have moved some embassy personnel out of Beirut as a temporary measure be­cause of the current unsettled con­ditioas in East Beirut. TI1e embassy is functioning, but with a limited staff. 
"The ambassador remains at his post. We will not get into numbers for security reasons." 
At the State Department, spokes­man Edward Djerejian said the Unit,~d States was concerned about receat developments in Lebanon 
challenging  the  authority  of  the  
Gem aye! government.  
He:  reitered:  "We  support  the  

sovereignty and territorial integrity of Lc: banon and we support the ef­forts of the central governn1ent un­der President Gemeyal to restore sove1:eignty over all Lebanese terri­tory." 
Djerejian would not say where 
see BEIRUT, page 3 

It's finally arrived! 
Spring break, that is. Today marks the begin-spread all over the country, with a heavy concen­
ning ofthe long awaited week-long vacation that tration located in Florida. These two left yesterda;• 
will find Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to get an early start on those tans. 


The Observer Friday, March 15, 1985 -page 2 



In Brief 
Vanessa Williams, forced to relinquish her Miss America crown for appearing nude in a men's magazine, is now pictured in dresses, blouses and skirts as a model for a mail-order house. Williams, 21, appears in 3.R million copies of the Royal Silk Ltd. Inc.'s winter catalogs, and in an advertisement to be published in Self magazine, said company Vice President Gerald Pike. Williams, of Millwood, N.Y., was the first of 57 Miss Americas to give up the title and the first black woman to win it. Shortly after she stepped down last summer. Royal Silk contacted her for its celebrity model series, Pike said. Pike said Williams earned "in the five-figure range." -AP 
A bomb blast ripped through a restaurant in Guadalupe on Wednesday, killing a woman as she ate lunch with her family and injuring II people. Police said four ofthe wounded were Americans from a cruise ship. It was the third bombing in five days on the French Caribbean island. The wave of violence began just before the first stage of local elections last Sunday. There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the explosion shortly after noon at the L'Escale restaurant in central Pointe-a-Pitre, the island's largest city. -AP 
Some passengers and crew probably woutd have survived the crash of a test aircraft in the California desert in December, even though the plane erupted into a fireball, the Federal Aviation Administration said Wednesday. The experimental crash of the remote-controlled aircraft, which carried dummies, caught na­tional attention when a fuel additive that was supposed to retard a post-crash fire apparently did not work, resulting in the plane being engulfed by a massive fireball. But the FAA, after analyzing film footage taken inside the plane's cabin during and after the crash, has concluded that if people had been aboard the plane at least some of them would have been able to escape, officials said. -AP 
What was that noise?The incredible roaring sound ~ou m~y have noticed yesterday afternoon was only a necessary step m the mstallment of a new steam line, a spokesman for the power plant said. The "roar," which lasted approximately half an hour, was caused by the process used to clean the line. -The Obsen'er 

Of Interest 
The Notre Dame Glee Club begins their annual sp~tng tour today. They will perform nine concerts during an Il-day swtng through southern and West Coast cities. The group's first show wi~l be a joint appearance with the jackson Symphony Or­chestra m the Mississippi Coliseum tomorrow evening. -The 
Obsen'er 
Notre Dame students helping area residents com­p~ete federal and state income tax returns will take a week offbegin­ntng tomorrow as the University observes spring break. They will resume their volunteer service Monday, March 25. The students, accompanied by faculty members and area certified public accoun­tants, are at the Northeast Center and Father Payne Neighborhood Reform Center Monday evenings, at the Center for Social Concerns, Notre Dame, Wednesday afternoons, at the Southeast Neighborhood and Ha~sel Centers Wednesday evenings, at the LaSalle Neighbor­hood Center Thursday evenings, and at the South Bend and Mis­hawaka Libraries Saturday mornings. -The Obsen•er 
Arc~tecture students are invited to design a co_mmumty cultural arts center for the l9R5 Student Design Compe­tition, an annual contest sponsored by the Society of American Registered Architects. Three cash prizes totalling $4,000 will be ~warded. Details and entry forms can be obtained from Raymond Studer, 216--455-0074.-The Obsen•er 


Weather 
Get ready' get set ...Sunny and cool today with highs in the mid to upper 40s. Clear and cold tonight with lows in the mid to· upper 20s. Partly sunny and warmer tomorrow with highs in the low 50s. -AP 

The Observer 
The Obtoerver ( USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 1hrough Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Obtoerver Is published by the students of the lJniversiry of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for J30 per year ( 120 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46~56. 
The Obtoerver is a member of The Associated PreiiS. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor......... ....... Maureen Murphy 
Destgr1 Assistant............. Matt Gracianette 
(Ex)Partlers...... Bob 'duck' Vonderheide Mike 'couch potato' Sullivan 
Marc 'madman' Ramirez 
Typesetter ............... Mary Ellen Harrington 
News Editor ............................Tess Guarino 
Copy Editor.............................. Jane Kravcik 
SportsCopyliditor......... Phil 'Shoes' Wolf 
Viewpoint Copy Editor..........John Heasly 
Viewpoint Layout................Andi Schnuck 
Joe 'featherweight' Murphy ND Day Editor....................... Mark Winters SMC Day Editor...............Toni Rutherford AdDesign ............................John O'Connor 
Mary Carol Creadon Photographer..................Johannes Hacker P.$........................................we love you Bob 



The story of Trump Troxail and his letters from a jail cell 
Every editor, at least once, has a right to get sentimer. 
tal. Today I am sentimental. 
Four years ago, as a freshman, I began losing sleep to 
write for this publication. This year I have served as 
editor-in-chief in what truly has been a remarkable, 
challenging and often overwhelming experience. 
Today is my last day. After break, it will be Sarah Hamil­
ton, not me, to whom Father Griffin will quote Shake-
spearswhen he comes up on Thursday night to check-his column. "Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown," Father told me on one occasion when our computer broke. I agreed. Sarah will have many opportunities for triumph and defeat in the next 12 months; Iwish her nothing but the best. But I am not writing now to seek sympathy for the imperfections that now and then creep upon our pages. I want to share a story about another kind ofchallenge­about the challenge of words -a message related by 
Trump~
the story of Trump (his 
nickname) Troxail. Tf'ivmph 
Trump is a prisoner at the Indiana State Prison who has two years left in his sen­tence. He is poor. He spends his days writing letters to newspapers asking for help, but often he cannot mail the letters because he has no money for postage. 
Injanuary of 1984, Tmmp wrote to The Observer. "I wanted to know if you would print an add in your paper for me and I don't have any money at all to pay you with! After that last line, if you decide to read on knowing that there's nothing in this for you, then what I wanted you to do was to put my name in your paper and see ifsomeone would write to me?" 
We printed Trump's name and address in the classi­fied ads section. I mailed him a copy and wished him good luck. Several days later, another letter from Trump arrived. 
"Hi Bob," he wrote with his red pen on his yellow paper. "Thanks a lot for your help guy! I can't tell you just what it ment to me. You said in your letter that if you could be of any further assistance to let you know, well there is some thing that I'd like to ask you. I hope that you wont think I'm just trying to get over on you because I'm not. It's just that your the first person who's ever wrote me back and even acted like they where interested in helping me or even cared." 
Trump then took two pages to ask me for a black-and­white Emerson TV. He said he saw one listed in a Ser­vice Merchandise Catalog for $5R. "I thought maybe 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 
For more information· and an applicat,on, please send completed coupon to: Reverend Jerry Dorn. Glenmary Home Missioners, Box 464n4, Cincinnati, OH 45246. 
Name-----------------------------------------------------------Age _________ Address ___________________________________________________________________ 
City ____________________ 
State__~---Zip------------­Telephone ) 1183/85 

Bob Vonderheide 
Editor-in-chief 


--------------------~­
you could run another add for me and see if any one would donate just alittle bit to get me a TV," he wrote. "I hope you don't think bad of me for asking that Bob. there just wasn't any one else I could ask. Ifyou think it will do any good then will you do that for me? If not, then that's OK. Nothing gained, nothing lost." 
Trump's letter was touching, but I set it aside. Three days later, Trump's final letter to me arrived. "It's me again," he wrote. "I'm writing this time to say 
that I'm sorry. I had no right what so ever to ask you to do what I did in my last let­ter, please forgive me OK? I was just being selfish man. After I mailed the letter, I thought, ah just let it ride and he wont do anything about the letter and in alittle while it'll all be forgotten about, but my insides just wouldn't leave me alone, so I had to write this letter to you and say that I'm sorry." 
I never heard from Trump again, and he never heard from me. From his prison 
calls out to world with words in a way just as graceful as Steinbeck or Hemingway. He is 3-1~ stripped of money, friends and hope. And yet it is his 

conscience that nags at him, and nags at him to write and say he doesn't need a TV after all. 
Words have power. They allow our soul to spill over into ink. But we waste so many. Readers this year com­plained to me when we forgot to print the time of a dance or the score of a game. So sometimes I would think of Trump to keep things in perspective. Words paint hope and descibe despair. They offer forth ideas. And it is the advancement ofthese ideas that have since inspired man to publish papers and write letters. It is 
what has inspired me all along. So I bid farewell to this chapter of my life, but I know deep down that just like Trump I will never be very far from the art ofwriting words. 

The Observer Friday, March 15, 1985 -page 3 

The Obscrver/Hannes Hacker

Keeping each other up 
The NCAA tournament was not the only event in the ACC last night. lee skating is stillpopular, despite the recent warm weather in the South Bend area. Notre Dame senior Maureen Ann McDon­nell and her sister Carrie practice up c n their skating technique aborJe. 

ND-SMC aluunni plan Florida break activities 
Special to The Observer 
Alumni officials of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will team up with Student Activities Board members in planning a weeklong schedule of events for students visiting the Fort Lauderdale area next week during 
spring break. 
The two schools plan to repeat many of the popular activities in­stituted last year during the precedent-breaking cooperative ef­fort of University and community agencies. 
The mobile office of the Notre 
Dame alumni group will be located 
once again near the Sheraton Yankee 
Trader Hotel. An information board listinjl. activities for students and score:; of sporting events will be lo­cated here, as well as a message ex­change service and a Watts telephone line where students may make free calls to parents. 
Students will join alumni in a St. Patrick's Day parade, and job inter­views with Florida area employers have been arranged. Other activities include a dinner boat cruise on the intra-coastal waterway and a snorkel boat eKpedition to Key Largo. 
Arnmgements have also been completed for Masses on both Sun­days with students receiving com· plimentary food, fruit, and soft dri~ for the trip back to Notre Dame on March 24. 

u1rant 
Best iinAged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
~:55-7737 
for reservations Lunch lll:OOa.m. to 2:30p.m. Dinner 5:00p.m. 
Closed 

* 
Sunshine Promotions presents 


with Special Guest 1,VASP I Saturday, March 23, 8:00 pm Notre Dame A.(:.c. Re~e<I'V•ed seats S12.SO.•.General Admission S11.50 

nclrrt• •uaU•ble at tlte ACC Jlo• Of/Ice Select Sc•ra, Select Ro••,..,.o,.·a. Tile Ellrllarl Tn~~tll • .I.R.'• ~f•-'e Aop(LaPorte), World RecordafGoalle•J. ltf.,alc Na..r (&r,.loll H•riJorJ, N..llt Wl,.da...PfU"•_..a .,.d NUe•J. Sl. .Jo.~p· S.•k(Jtl•l• 0/lfc~J. ••dK•,..• Reco,..,. (lt"ll. W•vw•J. 

* * 


Saint Mary's publication Chimes reflects students' thoughts in print 
By LYNNE R. STRAND 
News Staff 

Chimes, Saint Mary's literary mag­azine, reflects the thoughts of stu­dents in print, according to faculty advisor Max Westler. 
Chimes features stories and poems annually in late April. "We tend to shy away from formal es­says," said Westler, also an English professor. "This is an imaginative, creative journal, not at all scholarly." 
Chimes accepts literary submis­sions from everywhere, including Notre Dame students and the South 
Bend community. Even former Saint 
Mary's English majors write for Chimes, though most are not pres­ently professional writers. "They're quite good," commented Westler. He also added Saint Mary's students are given priority for publishing their work. 
With I2 student editors, Chimes is led byAnne Posega, Peggy Punket, and Kiley Moran in literature, and Pam Demers in art. 
Chimes is not onlyfinanced by the English department, but is con­nected to the art department. Drawings and photography com­prise one-fourth of the magazine. 
According to Westler, advisor to Chimes for 1 I years, the literary magazine has "existed for 30 to 40 years." "Chimes is something that I'm really proud of... it's quality ma­terial with alot ofprofessionalism." 
Westler said unlike The Observer and Scholastic, "Chimes really represents what students are think­ing on this campus." 
Submissions can be sent to Chimes, 31 0 Madeleva Hall. 


Redbud summer camp workshops offer course credit and experience 
ByDIANE SCHROEDER The summer workshop, coor-' but enrollment for each class will be News Staff dinated by Giovanna Sandusky, will limited to I 0 students. Applications, offer the students a "unique oppor-which are available from the art de­
Regular classes may be over by tunity to broaden his or her concept, partment in Moreau Hall, will be ac­
May 20, but they will be just begin­of nature in relation to work in a cepted in order ofregistration. 
ning for 50 students who attend the chosen area." The workshop will The courses offered are not 
Redbud Summer Workshop near also offer a chance for students and exclusively for majors, and students 
Buchanan, Michigan. faculty to live and work together from all areas ofstudy are welcome. 
throughout the two weeks. While the three credits that can be Sponsored by Saint Mary's Art De­
earned are not applicable for core partment, the two-week camp is 

Because of the intensity, the credit, they will fulfill elective open to any student from Saint 
equivalent of a semester's work in credits and will be helpful in work Mary's or Notre Dame. The camp of­one subject will be completed for with a minor or towards a major. fers five intensive workshops includ­three credits, according to Bill San­For further information, contact 
ing drawing and painting, dusky, also of Saint Mary's Art De­Bill or Giovanna Sandusky at 284­mixed-media printmaking, photog­partment. 
4655, or the art department at 284-• raphy and field biology. No prerequisites are necessary, 4631. 

Senate committee moves to budget which cuts social security, defense 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate Budget Committee marched toward final approval yesterday of a 1986 budget that calls for a freeze in Social Security benefits, a reduction in President Reagan's defense buildup and cuts in many domestic programs to chop S55 billion from the deficit. 
But even as the Republican­controlled panel struggled over final details of the S966.I billion spend­ing plan, the White House said Presi­dent Reagan was disappointed with parts of it. "It needs some work," Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole, 
R-Kan., added. 
If many Republicans declined to 
embrace the plan, Democrats were 
quick to turn on it, vowing to fight 
the Social Security change among other provisions, and complaining that Republicans were overstating the deficit savings. "We can do bet­ter," said Sen. Daniel Moynihan, D­N.Y., "We had better do better." 
The budget, given tentative approval Wednesday night in an 11­9, party-line vote, provides for no tax increases while projecting the deficit to decline from n 72.3 bil­lion next year to S101.8 billion in 1988. Without changes, the deficit is estimated at 5230 billion in fiscal 1986, which begins Oct. 1. 
In all, Republicans said they would lop nearly 5300 billion off deficits over three years. This would be done by cutting roughly $80 bil­lion from Reagan's defense request, suspending cost-of-living increases for Social Security and other govern­ment programs for one year, freez-
w-RM~~~--~~-~~~~~NR._._... 

SENIORS 
I 
Remember to make 
GRADUATION PLANS 
with parents for 
I 
Commencement Weekend May 17-19th 
~ FRI, MAY 17-Senior Class Cocktail " Dance -ACC North Dome 
I


~ tickets required I SAT, MAY 18-Dinner/ACC North Dome SUN, MAY 19-Brunch No./So. Dining Halls 
Order form has been sent to parents. Must be returned to CCE by April 23rd 
ing numerous domestic programs and making deeper cuts in others. 
While the budget technically only sets guidelines for Congress to fol­low, the committee made numerous assumptions about individual pro­grams -decisions that would give Reagan some but not all of the domestic cuts he requested. 
The budget recommended reve­nue sharing be phased out over the next two years but that the Urban Development Action Grant pro­gram, the job Corps and federal sub­sidies for Amtrak and mass transit be retained at reduced levels. Reagan wanted all ofthem eliminated. 
There would be cuts in stud(,nt loans, Medicare, Medicaid and farm programs, but not as deep as the president wanted. 
On the other hand, Reagan's ll'e­quest to terminate the Economic Development Administration and the Appalachian Regional Commis­sion would be accepted. 
At the White House, spokesm•m Larry Speakes said the president was "disappointed in some elements of the package." He said Reagan was pleased at the lack of tax increases, but wants to see funds restored to the Pentagon budget and cut from domestic accounts. 
Speakes no mention of the Social Security freeze until asked by reporters. 
He noted that Reagan originally opposed such a move, then said he would consider it if it were passed by "congressional mandate." 




Beirut 
continuedfrom page I 
the Americans had been evacuated to, or whether the action was lim­ited to embassy personnel. 
He did say that officials here "continue to be concerned about the safety of our official personnel and other Americans in Lebanon." 
He added "the numbers and se­curity arrangements, including the need for particular personnel to be present in Lebanon, is kept under constant review." 

The Observer 
New witness reopens subway shooting case 

Allsociated Press 
NEW YORK. A "mystery witness" will testify before a second grand jury that will consider further charges against Bernhard Goetz for shooting four youths on a subway, a prosecutor said Wednesday. 
District Attorney Robert Morgen· thau also said he had offered to protect and relocate the family of one of the wounded youths if he would testify before the panel, but the offer was refused. 
Agrand jury in january refused to indict Goetz for attempted murder and charged him instead with il· legally possessing a weapon. But on Tuesday a judge gave Morgenthau permission to resubmit the case to a second panel. 
"I don't know any way of putting new evidence in before a grand jury without a witness," the prosecutor said Wednesday. "And we intend for the witness to remain a mystery." 
Morgenthau said the offer of protection was made Saturday to Troy Canty, 18, and Canty's mother in a meeting at the district attorney's office. 
"She didn't buy it, and I can't say I blame her," Morgenthau said ofMrs. Canty. 
More than 50 letters containing death threats arrived at the Canty home after the youth's lawyer, Howard Meyer, indicated Canty might be willing to tell a grand jury about the Dec. 22 subway shooting, the prosecutor said. 
"She's a working woman with five other kids, and she's concerned about maybe losing her job or other problems," Morgenthau said. 
He said he did not make similar of· fers to the other three teen-agers, Barry Allen, James Ramseur and Dar­rel Cabey. Allen and Ramseur have said through lawyers that they would testify only if they received immunity from prosecution. Cabey, the most seriously wounded of the 
Former FBI agent admits to drug deals 
Allsoclated Press 
MIAMI · A former FBI agent who had gone undercover to spy on drug smugglers pleaded guilty yesterday to three counts of drug trafficking. He said he became a narcotics dealer while working for the bureau and made $850,000 selling cocaine. 
Dan Mitrionejr., 38, fuces up to 45 years in federal prison and fines totaling $2.6 million, or about three times the money he made traffick­ing, said U.S. District Judge Eugene Spellman. 
Mitrione, an FBI agent since 1972, is the son of a former police chiefof Richmond, Ind., who was killed in 1970 by guerillas in Uruguay while working for the Agency for Interna· tional Development. The futher's story was later depicted in a fiction· 
alized account in the movie "State of Siege." 
"This sad case illustrates our relentless determination to police our ranks," said FBI director William Webster in a statement released in Washington. 
When Mitrione fell under suspicion, "an immediate and thor­ough investigation was launched leading to the criminal charges filed against him today." 
Mitrione was placed in the cus­todyofthe U.S. Marshal's Service fol­lowing yesterday's hearing. The service declined to say where he would be taken. 
On March 6, 1983, the documents say, Mitrione witheld and sold 42 kilograms of a 235 kilogram cocaine shipment he was supposed to seize. 
youths, was paralyzed from the waist 
down and suffered brain damage. 
Goetz, 3 7, a self-employed electronics engineer, said he believed the youths were going to rob him when they approached him and asked him for 55. Canty said they were trying to panhandle the 
S5 for video games. 
After the first grand jury met, offi­cials released tape recordings in which Goetz said he fired a second shot at one of the four youths after telling him, "You don't look too bad; here's another." 
Mark Baker, one of Goetz's lawyers, said he might ask an appeals court to bar the new grand jury from convening. He also said he might · wait for the panel to act, then file a challenge if it indicted Goetz on ad· ditional charges. 
Asked for Goetz's response to the development, Baker said, "His reac­tion is, his lawyers will handle it .... He's developed an attitude where he accepts things as they happen and trusts his attorneys to deal with them." 


the left, however, prefers a daily newspaper while waiting in downtown Pittsburgh. 

Alaskan I<ing Crab Legs. 
$3.95 with any entree. 
Theire selling like hot cakes: Alaskan King Crab Legs at Red Lobster~' Come in right now and get a half pounaof steaming crab legs for just $3.95 when you order any entree. Crack open the shelfand you'll find tender1 succulent meat thaes sweet and delicious. But our special is only running for a limited time. So hurry in. And get them while theire hot. 
Red Lobster. 
201 W. McKinley Mishawaka 256-1565 1'1,.,:, HH! l.<~l,~rr·r lrrrh•,l :\rnNr•,
*approximate weight before cooking 
~1r,-,( ~i1111r C'n·dll C;rrd.., /\rrr•plr·r 

~i~~)21_()__i_ll___t________________F_ri_d~_,M_M_ch-15-,1-98-5--pag_e_s 
Geneva is important in the war between stars 
As the Geneva talks open, both sides will t>e sparring for months without overt results. Eut the U.S. chief negotiator, Max Kampelm:m, 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 
-

who talked endlessly with the Russians at Madrid, is a veteran at outwaiting them. 
Besides, armed with a new concept of peace through defensive strength, 1:he Americans have a proposition the Russi:ms can't prudently refuse. 
I have a letter from a professor who is writing a book on the impact ofthe Hiroshima bomb on the thought of the time. He dug up some columns I wrote 40 years ago, earl} in August 1945, in which I guessed the bomb would make a world of nations and empires obsolete, bringing in some global authority. 
Many others felt it. Yet our dream foun­dered. Dozens of new nations came on the scene and the old ones hung on. The Russians somehow got the bomb, Churchill gave us a term -"the balance of terror" -for deterrence theory, and the nuclear race was on. The H­bomb, the intercontinental missiles, the MIRV clusters -these only multiplied the offensive weapons. The world was offon a mad rivalry. 
We need this history for perspective, to note that the "Star Wars" initiative isn't more of the same. If the overused academic tetm ­paradigm shift -has any meaning it applies here. It describes a radical shift in the underly­ing assumptions with which we approach any basic research or thinking. 
What else are we'Witnessing but the dawn ofsuch a shift? This isn't just a "technical fix." For the first time both powers are studying how to stop offensive missiles, not only how 
to multiply and magnify them. 
It could well be the biggest story since the Einstein equation and the Los Alamos explo­sion, bringing with them a mega-shift in our thinking. It could dwarf the niggling political preoccupations. which obsess us. For this is what the great debate will swirl around, well into the 1990s, as we try to get straight what the underlying assumptions of the weapons race musJ be. 
Beyond the usual questions about how much a defense shield will cost and whether it can be achieved -there is a more far-reaching question. Assuming we can do it and pay for it, should we? Do we dare undercut the current balance-of-terror deterrence which has served the world for 40 years? 
This is the shadow under which the Geneva conference will be negotiating. As happened in 1945, the Americans have taken the lead again, and the Russians will try to keep pace, but it will strain their science and resources more than America's. 
The danger is that the Russians at some point, possessing the heavier offensive weap­ons, will decide to clean the slate by a first strike, before the U.S. can develop its defen­sive shield. It would be a desperate but not impossible move. This is what the mean when they warn that the "Star Wars" shield is "destabilizing." 
The U.S. has said again, to reassure them, that it contemplates no first strike. When America had a monopoly on the A-bomb and didn't make use of it, the democratic process prevented it and will prevent it again. 
That is why Geneva is important -to keep deterrence going with an offensive-defensive mix, at a moment ofhistory that carries a new hope for mankind, and the inevitable danger that always comes with the territory ofhope. 
(C) 1985,LOSANGELESTIMESSYNDICATE 
Raising questions on Reagan and J. Kennedy 
An article in the Feb. 4 issue of The New Republic will be looked back upon, someday, 
Garry Wills 
outrider 

.......................... 
as a milestone. It is a piece of journalism people will point to when asked, "How could Americans have been kept in the dark so long?" 
The article, by Carl Bernstein, is cal.led "Reagan at Reel II." It cites anonymously, or indirectly, the words of people either in the Reagan administration or dealing intimatdy with it -many, apparently, leftovers from the Nixon era whom Bernstein cultivated for tlls Watergate books. 
The burden of the piece is that Reagan is plain incompetent -that he has limited reservesofenergy and intelligence brought to focus on problems only by the strenuous in­tervention of those around him, who are si­multaneously trying to prod the sleepinggiant into action and to hide his generally inert state from the outside world. 
There is nothing particularly new or in­trinsically startling in Bernstein's article. The same case was better made in a specific area ­that ofweapons control -by Strobe Talbott in his book "Deadly Gambits." 
Talbott establishes in abundant detail that 
Reagan lacks the most basic information about 
the weapons systems of America and Russia, 
and has done nothing to repair his ignorance 
during·his years in office. 

Then why is Bernstein's article an impor­tant turning point? He admits himselfthat "the hints have been there all along" in the public record of Reagan's conduct of office. But he rightly adds that "the conventions of journalism discourage reporters from taking on the competence question directly." 
Bernstein's is the first major and blunt state­ment by so important a publication ofwhat is the ordinary gossip ofmany ofhis fellows who would not dare say the same thing in print, or would not be allowed to say it by their t~ditors. 
I have been asked many times, over the years, how the public could have been so misled about John Kennedy's health, marital bliss and writing talent. Why was it not re­ported at the time that he was sedated con­stantly, not tenderly monogamous, not the author ofhis own books? 
The answer is, as Bernstein says, that hints were there all along, sending nods and signals to the knowing. Others did only not know the truth, but did not want to know it, and would have refused to know it, given any opportu­nity. They would have resented its being voiced in their vicinity. 
That is the stage we are at with President Reagan. But his deficiencies are far more cru­cial to the performance ofhis office thanwere any ofPresident Kennedy's. 
Reagan's debilities, and the elaborate maneuvers engaged in to cover them up, will provide the stuff of many future books of memoirs, retrospective "revelations," and questions asked by the next generation. "Why was this not reported at the time?" 
It was, will come the answer, as the brittle pages of Bernstein's article are shoved across the table. The problem is not that the tru$ is hidden from us, but that we hide from it. 
We will allow ourselves to know only when it is too late for us to do anything about it. 
(C) 1985, UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
P.O.Box Q 
The violence puts world closer to intolerence 
DearEdttor: 
Although I would not quarrel with Profc:s­sor Rice's right to defend the abortion clinic bombers, and although Iconsider myselfto t>e "pro-life" in regard to the abortion issue, I Glll­not agree with Brother Benedict's appraisal of the actions of those who would blow up abor­tion clinics. Benedict has applauded the reli:~­ous conviction and passion displayed by these activists who would rather use explosives 
than reason. Yet I wonder ifhe is fully satisfic:d with the end product ofthis sort ofactivity? 
The Right to Life movement has waged a relentless war against the all-too-permissive abortion laws that we have had to live with since the Supreme Court's infamous ruling. But in the struggle to overturn what many consider to be legislation which allows for the destruction of innocent life, has the pro-life movement exhausted all legitimate means of achieving its goal? I think not. A number of avenues remain open, non-violent ones I 
might add. 
By blowing up abortion clinics the radic:al fringe of the pro-life movement has unv.it­tingly conveyed a message of defeat: having no legitimate means at their disposal, no sound philosophical or moral arguments which can be presented to the public at large, the radical activists have made a last ditch -ef­fort to circumvent an unjust law by commit­ting destructive and violent acts. 
The abortion clinic bombers also may have played into the hands of their opposition by further polarizing the opposing factions in the abortion debate. They have done serious harm to the pro-life cause by identifying it with a religious fanaticism which will stop at nothing to achieve its goals. 
Given a choice, who do you think will gain the sympathy of John Q. Public: the soft­spoken, law-abiding, compassionate woman who runs the abortion clinic or the dynamite­toting, religious fanatic who has a mandate from God Almighty? 
Rather than resorting to destructive acts of civil disobedience, can we not offer a more compelling moral vision to society at large? Can we not raise the level ofmoral discourse on what has come to be a highly charged emo­tional issue? Should we not eXhaust the legit­imate means at our disposal? 
Timothy Thibodeau Notre Dame graduate student 
Pro-lifers must offer a moral vision to succeed 
DearEditor: 

Brother Benedict praises the courage of those who destroy property in the name of human life. Yet it is not the courage, but rather the wisdom ofsuch people which deserves to be called into question. 
Members ofthe Plowshares Eight and those who bomb abortion clinics have this in com­mon: Each commits acts of violence which further polarize the American public into op­posing camps. Moreover, their acts ofdevasta­tion further reduce the opportunity fur dispassionate or reasoned dialogue regarding either abortion or the nuclear arms race. 
Are such results desirable? Only if one assumes that polarizing the American people will somehow hasten the resolution of either controversy. 
Few would quarrel with the proposition that certain atrocities have required a violent response in order to hasten their abolition. One thinks ofslavery and fascism. Do abortion or the nuclear arms race fall within this cate­gory ofsins so intolerable that they demand a violent response? Unlike Professor Rice's defendants or the Berrigan Brothers, I doubt that the answer to such a question has yet been handed down from heaven. 
No matter how selfless or allegedly "inspired" the motive, each act ofviolenc·e in­evitably weakens the fabric of society and prods us one step closer to the politics of in­tolerance. As a democratic and pluralistic country, can we really afford to shape public policy according to the violent deeds ofthose who claim to speak for God? 
Rev. Isaac McDaniel, O.S.B. Brownson Hall 


Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46551)  (219) 239-5303  Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef. .  Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager. .  Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor  .. Mark Worscheh  Controller.  .Dave Stephenitch  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  News Ed1tor .  . ... Sarah Hamilton  Advertising M~nager .  . Anne Culligan  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor  . Dan McCullough  Circulation Manager.  . Jeff O'Neul  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  Samt Mary's Ed1tor  .. Anne Monastyrsk1  Systems Manager.  . . Mark B. Johnson  
accurately and as objectively as possiblE. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Sports Editor.  . Michael Sullivan  Production Manager.  . .... Chris Bowler  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column  View_pomt Editor .  . ..... Dave Grote  Project Manager .  . .. Amy Stephan  
present the views ot their authors. Colun1n space is available to all members of the  Features Editor . ..... •. ...  Mary Healy  
community, and the free expression of vmymg opinions on campus. through letters.  Photo Ed1tor. .  . . Pete Laches  Founded November 3,1966  
is encouraged.  


Friday. March 15, 1985 -page 6
SpOrts Briefs 
Yesterday's Results

Yesterday's Results 
Auburn 59, Purdue 58

Notre Dame 79, Oregon State 70 
Auburn (59)

Oregon State (70) 
M FG-A FT-A R F PM FG-A Ff·A R F P

The Bookstore Basketball XIV field is now 
Morris 37 9·14 1-2 3 I 19

N
Miller 31 3-4 4-4 3 5 10
complete at ';60 teams. There will be a mandatory captain's meeting 
nerson 39 9-17 2-2 H 3 20

Green 40 10-14 6·9 12 I 26 
on Sunday, March 31, from 1:15 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. in the library 
Moore 28 1-5 0-0 7 3 2

Woodside 39 HI 1·2 4 2 5 
White 37 .i-5 1-4 5 7
Auditorium. Tournament action kicks off on April 9 with the Hall of 

Knox 19 2-5 0·0 I 3 4 
Ford 39 4-7 1-1 6 2 9

Aowers 37 6-12 1-1 I 4 13
Fame game. -The Obseroer 

c 
Lynn 7 0-2 0-0 0 0

Giusti I 0·0 0·0 0 0 0
• 
Guest 3 0-1 0-0 0 0 0

Derrah 40-00-00 0 
A 
HoUand 10 1-1 0-0 0 I 2
Houston 26 6·13 0-1 I 12 
200 27-52 S-9 30 11 59

Kaska-3 0·0 0-0 0 I 0 
FG Pet.·.519. IT Pet. -_556. Team rebound•­200 29-56 12-17 22 18 70

Think you're a better refthan those in the Big 
5. Turnovers-I I. Assists-H (White 4 ). Techni­

FG Pet.·.51 H. IT Pet.·.706. Team rebounds-
Ten? Perhaps you would like to reffor Non-Varsity Athletics and the 
cals-none.

3-Turnovers · I H. Assists · 5 (Flowers 3)_ 
Purdue (58)
Bookstore Basketball tournament. If so, call Mike Dunn at the NVA 

Technicals-none. 
M FG-A FT-A R F P
office (239-6100). Previous experience is preferred but not neces­

Notre Dame (79) 
Atkinson 36 0·2 0-0 3 4 0M FG-A Ff-A R F P 

A
sarily required. -The Observer 
Mitchell II 0-2 0-0 2 2 0

Royal 29 -l-7 4-4 4 5 12 
Bullock 40 6-15 1·3 10 4 13

Pt'lce 34 7·9 2-2 3 4 16 
Reid 39 9·17 0·2 3 4 IH

Kempton 27 3·5 3-4 5 3 9 
Gadis 10 0·1 0-0 0 0 0

Rivers 36 8-12 5·6 I I 21 
Robinson 5 0-0 0-0 0 0 ()

Hicks 35 5·8 4-4 5 2 14
A scuba-diving class is being sponsored by NVA. 
Iittlejohn 29 3·5 2-2 9 0 H

Duff 4 -o-o o-o 1 0 0
Anyone who is interested in this six-week course should attend a 

B 
Lewis 30 9-17 1-2 2 I 19
Dolan 19 3·3 1·1 6 2 7
meeting on Tuesday, March 26, at 6:30p.m. in room 218 of the 
200 27-59 4-9 29 15 58

Barlow 15 0·3 0·0 2 0 
FG Pet.· .45H. IT Pet.· .444. Team rebounds-
Rockne Memorial Building. -The Obseroer 

Voce I 0·0 0·0 0 0 0 
0. Turnov"rs · 'Y. Assists-9 (Reid 6 ). Technicals

200 30-47 19-21 26 19 79 
-none.

FG Pet. · .638. IT Pet. -.905. Team rebounds-
Halftim" -Auburn 31, Purdue 25. Officials ­

0. Turnovers· 16. Assists· 6 (Rivers 3 ). Techni· 
0 
Tom Fraim, Rich Eichorst, Ron Labetich. A ­cals-none. 
10,480.
Professional wrestling is coming to Stepan Cen­

Halftime· Notre Dame 35, Oregon State 26. 
Yesterday's Results

Officials -Tim Higgins, Woody Mayfield, Rich
ter. The MS Drive presents World Wrestling Federation 
Kansas 49, Ohio University 38

Ballesteros. A -I 0, 751 (c).
"Wrestlemanla," a closed-circuit broadcast live from Madison 
Ohio University (38) 
M FG-A FT-A R p Scarberry 27 2·7 0-0 I I 4 
Square Garden on Sunday, March 31 at 1 p.m. Tickets are on sale now 
at tlK Gate I 0 ticket office at the ACC and at Rock du Lac. All 

Yesterday's Results 
X F 
Hicks 37 0-3 3-4 7 3 3

North Carolina 76, Middle TennesseeState
proceeds go to Multiple Sclerosis. -The Obseroer 
Stanfd 6 0-0 0-0 0 0 0

57 
Tatum 37 1-8 0-0 0 5 2

Middle Tennessee State (57) 
Baron 34 1-3 2·5 6 4 4

M FG·A Ff-A R F P 
RSmith 2 0-0 2·2 I 0 2

Thompson 37 10-17 0-0 8 4 20 
Washington 3 0·3 0-0 0 0

Hammonds 40 3-111 3-4 7 4 9
An interhalllacrosse league is being formed 

s 
Lehmann 2 1·1 0-0 0 2
Miller 24 1-2 0·0 2 3 2
by NVA. The deadline for entries is Monday, April 8. For more infor­
H. Smith 17 2·7 0-1 4

Cooksey 38 7·22 0-1 5 3 14 
Brock I 1·1 0·0 0 I 2
mation, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Obseroer 

Johnson 26 4-6 0-2 6 5 8
\ 
Rhodes 2 0·0 0-0320

Murray 14 0-0 0·0 0 0 
Alexander 32 6-9 3-3 3 3 15

Stevenson 5 2-3 0·0 0 4 
200 14-42 10-15 26 22 38

Smith 16 0-2 0-0 I 2 0
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday 
FG Pet.· .333. FT Pet.-.667. Team rebounds­200 27-70 3-7 31 21 57 5. Turnov"rs · I I. Assists · 5 (Tatum, Baron 2 ).

through Thursday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third 

FG Pet. -.386. FT Pet.-.429. Team rebounds-
c 
Technlcals-none.
floor ofLafortune. Briefs must be clearly written. -The Obseroer 

I. Turnov"rs · 12. Assists-7 (Thompson 3). 
Kansas (49)

Technicals · nofli. 
M FG-A FT-A R F p

North Carolina (76) 

0 
Manning 38 4-5 1·2 6 4 9M FG-A FT-A R F P Kellogg 38 4-9 2-3 I 3 10Wolf 34 6-9 6-7 11 2. 18 Dreiling 36 3·4 4-4 8 3 10Popson 9 1-·i 0·0 I 2 
Hunter 37 2-3 0-2 3 I 4
Thompson 34 3·7 6-8 2 4 12Hale 32 1--i 0·0 4 2 Turgeon 2 0-0 0-0 0 ()Smith 39 1-6 4-4 4 6 Campbell 2 0-0 0·2 () I 0

r
Peterson IH 1-2 4-4 2 0 6 Hull 2 0·0 0-0 0 0 ()Smith 3 0-1 0-0 I 0 0 Newton 6 0-0 1-2 0Hunter 7 1-4 1-3 0 0 3 Piper 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 ()Martin 23 6-H 2-5 7 4 14 
Boyle O-Il 3·4 0 0 3

200 211-53 20-27 41 12 76 Pellock 0-0 0-1 () () 0
e
FG Pet.-.528. IT Pet.· .741. Teamrebounds-Johnson I 0-0 0-0 0 0 0
0. Turnovers · 16. Assists -II (Smith 7). 
200 16-28 17-28 21 17 49Technicals · none. 

s 
FG Pet.· .571. IT Pet.-.607. Team rebound•­Halftime · Middle Tennessee State 31, North 0. Turnover>· !1. Assists-H (Hunter 4 ). Techni­Carolina 3I. Officials -Jim Bain, Jerry White, 
cals ·none.

Mike Sierco. A-11,345. 
Halftime-Kansas I H, Ohio University 15. Of­ficials Larry l.embo, Norm Borucki, Tom 
Rut·ker. 

Classifieds 
The Ohsen•er Notre Dame otfkc_ locatcd on thc third floor of l.al'ortum· Student Centt·r. accepts das-ified adn·rti•ing from<) a.m. until -1 p.m.. Monda\ through Friday l'be Ohsert•er Saint .\!an·, officc. locait·d on tht· third lloor ,;f Haggar Collt-gc Center, accept' da"ifinb from 12:.~0 p.m. until-~ p.m...\!on day though Friday. lkadlinc for next-da\' da"'i!ktb ;, -~ p.m All da,_,ifinb must he prq>aid. either in person or lw mail Chargt· h I 0 n·nt, IXT fin· charat ter' t-r da\'. 
NOTICES 

TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81197 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 
WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING 272·8827 
WORDPROCESSING 2n-6045 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
Word Proceaamg/Typ1ng · also copy1ng. Call Andrea 283-3880 -9 a.m. to 11 :oo p.m. 
TYPING J•ckle l!l<>g98 684-87i3 

PRQ-TYPE Over 14 yra. expeflence 1yp1ng student papers. dissertations elc. 2n-se33 
LOST/FOUND 

TO WHOEVER TOOK MY BOOKBAG FROM THE BOOKSTORE FRIDAY MORNING--WOULD YOU AT LEAST PUT MY NOTES AND GLASSES BACK SO I CAN READ AGAIN 
Loat: MY SKI CAP. it'o black Wllh several white and grey otnpes. could be anywhere; Please C811 Andy ]1176. THANKS' 
11AEWARD'! A ten percent reward offered for the return of a Ttmex mens wnstwatch lost on March ~ between Keenan and Cushing Aud. ·Return 11. make yourself feel good. and make a lew bucks 1n the process. Call x3327 
Lost:Spa!d1ng Execu11ve PITCHING WEDGE:lefl on 13th green:REWARD of­fered;call Eflk al1623 
LOST: NOTRE DAME HAT IN LOBBY OF SOUTH DINING HALL. CALL TIM 2543 IF YOU HAVE IT. 
FOUND: CROSS PEN AND PENCIL IN ROOM t24 NIEULAND SCIENCE BLDG. CALL TIM 2543 TO IDENTIFY. 
found, sony walkman headphones, left tn my car by a gtrt who hitched a nde with me up N.D. ave last thursday. If they are yours, call me &12065 
LOST: sel of keys on leather keycha1n. 3/7, in O'Shag or Lafortune 283-4233 if found ~·thanks. 
LOST-MY DOG-"amber"SHE IS REALLY MELLOW AND COOL. I CAN'T BELIEVE SHE WOULD LEAVE ME. IF SOMEONE SNAGGED HER PLEASE GIVE HER BACK, YOU CAN HAVE GRANT INSTEAD.THERE IS A 
REWARD OF A KEG OF BREW FOR ANYONE WHO KNOWS WHERE SHE MAY BE THIS DOG LIVES AY 802 NAPOLEON BLVD. PLEASE HELP HER FIND HER WAY HOME· AMBER IS LITTLE.BROWN,WHITE,TAN AND A LITTLE HUSKY. WITHOUT HER OUR PARTIES ARE NOTHING. AMBER IF YOU CAN READ THIS WE LOVE YOU PLEASE COME HOME CALL 234-2275 
LOST: BROWN WALLET IN EITHER LAFORTUNE, N. DINING HALL, OR EMIL AUDITORIUM SOMETIME WED­NESDAY MORNING PLEASE TRY TO GET IT BACK TO ME BEFORE BREAK! PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 22871 

~-FO__R_RE_N_T~j 
SUBLET LG 2BR APT APRIL. 1ST 232­4355 
WANTED 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME-AFTER THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
Retal1ves traveling from El S.lvador to see beloved presrdent. So, I need many COMMENCEMENT tickets. Call 3811 or you may find a guerilla al your door. 
Ride needed to Illinois for spring break to either Peona. Bloomington, or west on In~ terstale 80 to LaSalle-Peru or Annawan. Can leave on Friday. Call Dave at1931. 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: 1980 PLYMOUTH CHAMP. GOOD GAS MILEAGE GREAT FOR RUNNING AROUND TOWN. KNOWS ITS WAY TO THE BARS BY HEART!! NEED TO SELL AS SOON AS POSSI­BLE NEED TO FLY THE FAMILY OUT FOR GRADUATION!! ASKING FOR THE HIGHEST BIDDER. YOU WON'T REGRET IT. CALL JEFF AT 3859 OR STOP IN 128 ST. ED'S 
s~~~;~;t.,~;· ,;~·'s8~6~~i~~--~~i~~n.21 i3~ 
25/3 Call 232-6085 

FOR SALE: OLDS 98 AM/FM STEREO, RUNS WELL, $300. 283-17611 JOE. 
~~__T_IC_K_ET_S~ 
TICKETS FOR NCAA'S round 1 & 2 
lhur&sal call ROBT. ] 2 3 2-8 3 0 6 
NEED·2 K1ss Tix. $$$ Call Jeff Stouder 
Collect (317)474·0667 
yWANTED NCAA TICKETSy call272-7900 ask for Mr. Hunl 
NCAA TICKET FOR SAT FAIR PRICE. CALL4278 
PERSONALS 
ATTENTION: ALL·SOUTH PAIJRE IS­LAND BOUND NOTRE DAME STU­DENTS. THERE WILL BE A ST PATRICK'S DAY PARTY ON SUNDAY NIGHT AT THE MARINA CONDOS! FOR MORE INFO CALL KURT AT 1583. 
NEED EXTRA $. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 SO.BEND AVE,M-F B/T12-4PM. WE ALSO OFFER A 3 DAY SERVICE FOR USED BOOKS. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., 
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
JIM TABOR CORE COURSE Player of the week M•r•Cu8hW8 
YO! YOHON! (THAT'S YOU RICH) I LOVE YOU! 
Jell Herman--Just wanted to say "hello" and WISh you a fun and exciting spring break. Love. Your Secret Admirer. 
"WE ARE THE WORLD" The hit single by USA for Africa IS now on sale at Rock Du Lac. first floor, LaFortune. Help the starving people of Ethiopia. 
"We •re the World" On sale at Rock Du Lac ' 
TO KAREN. LISA. JENNY, TRISH, 
BETH. PATTI P .. DEBBIE A .. DEBBIE C .. 
MICHELLE T . MICHELLE M , SUE. 
SUSIE. AND SUSAN -· THE DANCIN 
IRISH: THANKS FOR THE BEST 
SEASON EVER1YOU GIRLS ARE TEA· 
RIFFIC' (AND YOUR LEGS AREN T BAD 
EITHER) WE'LL MISS YOU -· LOVE, 
JAN AND PATTI P.S. SPECIAL THANKS 
TO JOHN FOR ALL HIS HELP' 
Nick G.~~ J'espere que vous aurez un bon temps a-Montana. Take lots of ptctures. 
THE DISCIPLES OF DOLAN congratulate Jimmy for being voted BEST DEFENSIVE PLAYER OF THE YEAR. Keep up the good work, big guy! 
Hey JIM DOLAN' Whenever you are in the neighborhood. stop by your HOMECOURT of 304 KEENAN for a ''gatherrng·· with your Disciples! 
HAVE A GREAT VACATION POOPSIE !!!!!!I'LL BE MISSING YOU! 
I WOULD APPRECIATE HEARING 
FROM ANYONE WHO WOULD BE 
WILLING TO WRITE ME I AM A VERY 
LONELY PRISONER IN NEED OF 
FRIENDSHIP. I WILL ANSWER ANY 
AND ALL LETTERS I MAY RECEIVE. I'M 
33 YEARS OLD, WHITE MALE. 6''1', 150 
POUNDS WITH BLUE EVES AND 
BLOND HAIR. PLEASE DON'T SEND 
ANY POSTAGE STAMPS IN YOUR LET­
TERS. IF YOU WANT YOU MAY SEND 
ONE EMBOSSED STAMPED 
ENEVELOPE WITH YOUR LETTER 
SINCE WE ARE ONLY ABLE TO 
RECEIVE ONE EMBOSSED STAMPED 
ENVELOPE WITH EACH LETTER. 
JERRY L HENNING, 161803, P.O. BOX 
45699, LUSASVILLE. OHIO, 45699· 
0001. 
Do you h8ve Tue1d.oy or Thured•y •f· ternoon1 free? If 10, 1hen how about becomine • SMC Ob•erver d.oy editor aub? canT...at 239-5303 or 284-5365 for morelnform•tlon. 
PROFESSOR HIGHLAND-NOW THAT CLASSES HAVE RESUMED, WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO TEACH ME? IF THE COURSE IS AN ELECTIVE, I CHOOSE " I WANT TO KNOW WHAT LOVE IS ·--400 LEVEL, OF COURSE SINCERELY. YOUR BELOVED STU­DENT (ME-PAL) 
North Carolina here we come! The sun IS just a lew hours away, but a questton still rematns: "Can etght women stand to be alone on a beauttful beach wllh all lhe sunny weather. seafood and beer they can handle and no one to see them in thetr bathtng sutts? 
(llhink they can) 
TROY ILLIG: I'm so glad that we are fi­nally on the same wavelength. You don'l know how long f"ve been watttng for thiS Believe me, the feeling tS mutual. Please reply at your nearest conventence love and kiSSes. SEXXY 
WOULD SOMEBODY PLEASE TELL THE DUMB BOXES IN THE A.M.H HOW TO SPELL CONGRA TULA liONS 
1-i~i--siE:vE: 'PArrE:Rsoi:.-~just want to 
WISh you a great break and a vary HAPPY 
BIRTHDAY--lots of love from your buddy, 
Lisa 
It's been a great year, gang. But now thts tame duck has gal Ia go. I'll never forget your great dedication and talent: M•rk, One, Mike, One, Anne, S.rah, Amy, Dan, Chrla, Pale, M•ry, Dave, Anne, lUrk, Jeff, •nd mo11 of •U...Shlrtey. ­
Bob 
Lfu •nd Belh ... Here 11 Ia lhe 1uper brMk we •re golnglo h•v• beginning In only hourel Th•nkl •o much...LI1 
Annemarl• we'll mlaa vou very much. Who el•• will 1Ing "Gr•pevlne" 10 weli?We'll hne bi8Ck Rul818nl (or m•ybe white) •D•In 1oon. Love. J•neP.S. W81lt lhe el or •n elev•tor? 
South P8dre llland.....We'll-ya'! 

The Observer Friday, March 15, 1985-page 7 
ND baseball team heads to Texas to open season 
By MIKE SULLIVAN said that maybe we bit offmore than should give No. 1 Texas a run for the season. He remains guardedly opti­While the hitting is suspect, the Sports Editor we can chew, but that's one of the SWC title. mistic about his team's chances pitching seems to be very strong recruiting tools I've got to use to get Sunday's game with Houston may against some of the Big Ten's best with a number of experienced hur­Earlier this week, Notre Dame the talent to come here. It lets them be the most important game of the teams and against the rest of the lers returning to the mound. Lopes, baseball coach Larry Gallo was know that they can get a good edu­trip, though, as the Irish try to show teams in the Midwestern City Con­last year's most valuable player with called into the trainer's room in the cation and play a very good a television audience that Notre ference. a 4-4 record and 4.29 earned run A'CC and was greeted by the sight of scheduk. Dame has more than a football and a The reason is simple. He realizes average, is expected to be the ace, his star pitcher, Buster Lopes, sitting "I don't want the players to get basketball team. that the performance of his un­but he has plenty of experienced with his pitching hand in a cast. their brains beaten in every game, "The game being on ESPN is the proven hitters will have a major ef­helpinJoe Dobosh(2-7, 5.56),Jason 
For Gallo, who has had to deal but everybody wants to play against greatest thing in the world for our fect on the team's success. A large Schomer (3-2, 7.12), Steve Powell with numerous barriers such as the good competition." program," says Gallo. "I'd be able to percentage of Notre Dame's home (1-2, 7.48), Brad Cross (injured last South Bend weather and lack of There is no mistaking the fact that say more if I had seen us play about runs and runs-batted-in graduated season), and Mark Watzke ( 4-0, scholarships during his five years at the Irish will be playing some tough I 0 games, but I think ifwe get some last spring with Mark Metzler, Carl 3.71 ). Newcomers Paul Mauk, Kevin the Irish helm, it just seemed like competition. One needs to look no good pitching, good defense, and hit Vuono and Jimmy Dee, so Gallo is Chenail (a Cleveland Indians draf­one more piece of bad news as he farther than this weekend, when a little bit, we can have a good counting on some untested players tee) and John Bowen should help readies his team for a brutally tough Notre Dame will have the un­showing. That would be a big boost to come through. give the Irish a deep staff. road trip to Texas. Unable to play enviable task of taking on two pow­to the program." "I don't think we have a tremen­Gallo will be relying on his pitch­any games and forced to practice in­erful So llthwest Conference teams After the Houston game, the Irish dous amount of power, so we're ing a great deal as Notre Dame tries doors all winter, Notre Dame could in Texas Christian and Houston. will continue the trip with a series of going to have to single and double to reach the MCC playoffs by finish­ill afford losing Lopes. Fortunately Both te;ms figure to be among the games against some smaller, but still them to death," says Gallo. ··we're ing among the top two in its division. for Gallo, though, it turned out that best teams in the nation and have the talented, schools. St. Mary's, St. Ed­going to have to move runners up Detroit, Xavier and Butler are the he was the victim ofa practical joke. added advantage of being able to ward's, Schreiner, Trinity and Texas and take advantage of other teams' other teams in the MCC's Northern The cast came off Lopes' hand and start their seasons early. Lutheran all will provide more than mistakes. We're going to have to Division. Notre Dame's chances for a success­Meanwhile, the Irish have had to enough competition. fight for every run we can get." ful break began to look much better deal with the bad weather that has "We're going to play to win every Senior captainJack Moran is going "Naturally, our goal is to finish in again. allowed them to use the entire Jake game," says Gallo. "It's unfortunate to be one person who needs to the top two in the division because 
Gallo is well aware that he is going Kline fie.ld just one time this winter. we have to play such tough competi­produce. The second baseman has a the winner ofthe conference gets an to need good performances from "Most of the teams we'll be tion before we get a chance to play lifetime .265 average and will be one automatic bid to the NCAA Tourna­Lopes and other key players if the playing have ali-eady played 15-20 some other teams, but that's the way .of the few Notre Dame players ever ment," says Gallo. "Playing down Irish are to gain respect for their pro­games," explains Gallo. "Naturally it goes. The players are very eager to to start for four years. However, he South will definitely get us ready to gram during their southern swing, that put!· us at a little disadvantage, start because monotony creates a must get some help if the Irish are play the northern part of our which features a March 1 7 matchup but, at this point, we just need to tremendous amount of anxiety. The going to be able to score some runs. schedule." with Houston that will be televised !)lay. The: 11 games we'll play down only thingleft for us to do is actually Veterans Tom Shields, Mike With a little bit ofhitting and few live nationally by ESPN, and the there will all be against very good playa game. Trudeau and David Clark also should real injuries, the Irish may just find remainder of their busy 55-game teams, so it won't be easy." "If we went .500, I would say it have some effect on Irish success, as that spring break down South could schedule. Notre Dame will not have the ad­was a very successful trip, but, will third baseman Rich Vanthour­make the remainder of the year 
"I truly feel that this is the toug­vantage of starting with some depending on the circumstances, nout. much more pleasant than usual. hest schedule that a Notre Dame weaker teams and gaining some mo­that's not to say that finishing a baseball team has played in a very mentum before taking on the strong couple games below that would long time," says Gallo, who has opponents as the first stop on the make the trip unsuccesful." 
Baseball's preseason
compiled a 94-83-1 (.531) record in trip will be tomorrow's matchup Gallo's approach toward the his first four years at Notre Dame. "It with th•: Horned Frogs. TCU has Texas trip is not much different than is really going to be a test. It's been won 12 of its first 13 games and his approach toward the rest of the 
warms up down South 

Open of 11om for Lunch 

You've been studying for Domino's Deluxe 
r----------------------,
hours. The pages are 5 1tems for the pric ~ of 4. blurring and your stomach Pepperoni. Mushrooms. Pay only $5.99 for a
$5.99

is stirring. So why not take Omons. Green Peppers 12" one item pizza a break and call Domino's and Sausage and 2 Cokes·
Special

Pizza? We'll be there with 12" deluxe$ 8.55 G;;-od .Fri., Sat., and Sun. Only a hot, custom-made pizza 16" deluxe $12.35 
Fast, Free DeliveryTM
in 30 minutes or less. Plaza 23 Center
Guaranteed! All of our 
Electives pizzas are made with 
Pepperoni, Mushrooms. 
~ ·"'·~~~~hs~~~~BendAve
· ~-_100% real dairy cheese Black Olives. Onions. 

Phone: 277-2151 and fresh, not frozen, 
Green Olives. Sausage. • JTC NA 103 2650 toppings. Now isn't that Ground Beef. Harr, Green • • • 1984 Dommo s Przza. Inc. worth contemplating! ~~~~==~~~
Peppers. Double Cheese .. Extra Thick Crust 
--·-----il® 12" p1zza $ .89 pe1 item 

L••••••••••••••••••••••J
Menu 16" p1zza $1 29 pe1 item 
All Pizzas Include Our Coke" 16 oz. bottl ~s. 
DOMINO'S

Special Blend of Sauce and 100% Real Cheese 
59~. 
PIZZA 
6l 
Our drivers carry less Our Superb Cheese Pizza DELIVERS™

than $20.00 12" cheese $4.99 
FREE.

16" cheese $7.19 
Limited Delivery 11-rea 
® 
Pnces do not rnclude appll ;able sales tax c 1984 Dommo s Przza. Inc 

Associated Press 
Designated hitter Willie Aikens bounced a bad-hop single in the ninth inning to score the tie­breaking run, and the Toronto Blue Jays ran their exhibition record to 6­0 yesterday with a 2-1 victory over the Minnesota Twins. 
Mitch Webster started the win­ning rally with one out in the ninth when he reached on a high-hop in­field hit to short and moved to second on a balk by Len Whitehouse. Aikens then bounced a grounder over the head of Steve Lombardozzi at second, scoring Webster. 
Buck Martinez ofthe Blue Jays and Kent Hrbek of the Twins had ac­counted for the other two runs with homers in the game at Dunedin, Fla. 
In other games, Detroit won its sixth straight, getting another strong outing from Walt Terrell and five er­rors by St. Louis to beat the Cardinals 5-4. Terrell, who came to the Tigers in the off-season from the New York Mets, worked three shutout innings. The Tigers have not lost since their opening game. 
Jim Rice drove in four runs with a homer and a single, and the Boston Red Sox rallied for five runs in the eighth inning for a 9-7 victory over the Cincinnati Reds at Winter Haven, Fla. The Red Sox rally against converted outfielder Scott Terry spoiled the 1985 playing debut of Cincinnati Manager Pete Rose, who had two hits as the Reds designated hitter. 
In Vero Beach, Fla., Terry Puhl tripled home one run and scored an­other in the first inning, and the Houston Astros went on to a 3-1 vic­tory over the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
The Astros, splitting their squad, lost to the New York Mets, 2-1, at Kissimmee, Fla. Former Astro Ray Knight and Darryl Strawberry each drove in eighth-inning runs to lift the Mets over Houston. Knight had a single and Strawberry a double. 
Mike Young drove in four runs, three with a bases-loaded triple in the first inning, to lead the Baltimore Orioles over the Texas Rangers, 5-2, at Miami. The Orioles' first-inning runs were unearned after an error by Rangers second baseman Wayne Tolleson. 
In Tucson, Ariz., Bert Blyleven pitched five scoreless innings, and the Cleveland Indians had 18 hits to beat the Oakland A's 13-3. Blyleven allowed only two hits, struck out two and walked none. Tony Ber­nazard highlighted a four-run rally in the second inning with an RBI triple. 
Ben Oglivie and Bobby Clark hit home runs to lead the Milwaukee Brewers to a 5-4 victory over the California Angels in Sun City, Ariz. Doug DeCinces and Jerry Narron homered for the Angels. 
Casey 
continuedfrom page 12 
six years before he assumed the 
head coaching duties. 
Where Casey will be next year is anybody's guess, but he hopes to find a spot somewhere in the col­lege game, and he already has talked to Providence and Dela­ware. 
"(Notre Dame athletic director Gene) Corrigan and Digger have talked to the people at Provi­dence," says Casey. "Delaware has also opened up. Nothing else is available that is obtainable for me. I don't know what's going to hap­pen, but this has kept my juices flowing." 
If all goes well for Casey, next year he will be able to start a much longer chapter for his autobiogra­phy. 
Tar Heels 
continuedfrom page 12 
point guards who have led their teams to outstanding seasons. Tar Heel sophomore Kenny Smith and Irish freshman David Rivers will get the chance to go head to head to­morrow. 
"Kenny Smith is really what makes them go," says Phelps. 
The Irish will try to stop Smith both from scoring himself and from creating easy scoring oppurtunities inside with passes to the Tar Heel big men, as he did last night. 
"I think North Carolina will come in here knowing that they can beat us," says Rivers, "but also under­standing the fact that we can beat them too." 
With some strong play from the Irish, it could be the latter. 

The Observer 
UNC 
continuedfrom page 12 
man with 2'), quickly threw down an 
allcy-oop offa feed from point guard 
Kenny Smith, who ended up with 
seven assists. After that, it was all 
downhill for the Blue Raiders, as 
they watched North Carolina ride 
strong rebounding and a punishing 
inside game to a 76-S7 victory. 

"I think after the timeout they hit a couple: of shots, and we got a little bit frustrated," said Middle Tennes­see head coach Bruce Stewart. "We got a couple of shots blocked, and we lost a little bit ofour poise. Their height and their depth I think took its toll ahout that time." 
In fact, it was surprising that North Carolina's height and depth did not take its toll on the smaller Blue Raider squad hefore that point. 
'lltroughout the first half. the Blue Raiders used a triangle-and-two defense to frustrate the North Carolina guards. It was then that 6-S Middle Tennessee point guard James Johnson, who would collect four steals hefore fouling out with 
4:27 left in the game, seemed to be all over the court bothering the Tar Heels. 
"We went to the trianle-and-two to try to match (North Carolina) inside," said Stewart. "and to try to put some pressure on the two 
Holmes' fight could be the last of career 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. -Larry Holmes, 

who says he prefers living in the 
blue-collar city of Easton, Pa., to life 
In the fast lane, could cap an un­
beaten career tonight in this heaven 
for high rollers. 
When Holmes fights David Bey in 

a 6,000-seat outdoor arena at the 
Riviera, it will be his 17th fight in 
this gambling oasis. 
Holmes' first Las Vegas fight was in 

a preliminary to Muhammad Ali's 
successful title defense against Ron 
Lyle May 16, 1975, and he won the 
World Boxing Council heavyweight 
championship hereJune 9, 1978, on 
a 1')-round split decision over Ken 
Norton. 
Friday's scheduled 1S-round bout, which will be televised by HBO starting about 7:27 p.m. PST, will be Holmes' second defense of the International Boxing Federation title. He relinquished the WBC championship in December 1983, rather than fight Greg Page, now the World Boxing Association cham­pion, for S2.SS million for promoter Don King. 
King is promoting tonight's fight, which appears to be the final match of a 13-year career for Holmes, who is getting S2 million. Bey's purse is 
S2SO,OOO. 
"If I don't get a solid offer byJune 9, that's it. I quit," said Holmes, who weighed in yesterday at 223. pounds. Bey weighed 233. 
Holmes wants S3 million to fight light heavyweight champion Mi­chael Spinks or S2S million for a rematch against Gerry Cooney, whom he stopped in the 13th round ofa rich WBC title defense hereJune 11, 1982. 
Holmes said he thought his chances of getting either fight were "slim or none." 
Should he retire after fighting Bey, and winning, the 3S-year-old Holmes would join Rocky Marciano as the only heavyweight champion to retire without having lost a fight. Marciano retired with a 49-0 record in 1957. Holmes has a 46-0 record, with 33 knockouts. 
Holmes was unimpressive in stop­ping james "Bonecrusher" Smith on cuts in the 12th round ofan IBF title defense last Nov. 9 at the Riviera. 
guards. I thought that was very effec­
tive. But later they made some ad­
justments." 
And something was definitely 
bothering the Tar Heels. The team 
that appeared last night against 
Middle Tennessee bore no 
resemblance to the squad that tied 
for first place in the Atlantic Coast 
Conference this season. 
The Tar Heels struggled at the 
start, allowing the Blue Raiders to 
jump out to a seven-point lead at 19­
12, mainly based on strong outside 
shooting by guard Kim Cooksey and 
Thompson. who led the Blue 
Raiders with 20 points. 
"Johnson was excellent stealing 
the ball," saicJ Dean Smith, and of 
course "lltompson shot so very 
well." 
The huge Tar Heel front line 
chipped away at that lead, with 
Daugherty getting 1l points and 6­
1 I reserve forward Warren Martin 
collecting nine. When Cooksey 
missed a one-and-one with no time 
left on the clock in the first half, the 
Tar Heels found themselves tied at 
31. 
When the second half began, North Carolina again worked the baH inside, but without committing so many turnovers. 
"We just wanted to calm down a little bit," said Daugherty, "take our time and use our size to our advan­tage. Once we did that, I think things began to open up for us, and we began to click a little bit better. 
"(The Blue Raiders) really came to play. They might have been a little more motivated than we were ear­lier on, and they came out and hit some shots to get things going their way. But we realized it was a forty­minute game." 
Six-ten Tar Heel forward Joe Wolf scored 16 points in the second half, many on baseline jumpers, to help the Tar Heels pull away. And as the North Carolina lead grew, Martin al­ways seemed to be in position to 

swat another Blue Raider shot away. 
He finished with six blocked shots. 
"When we play a smaller team and 
we have such a great height advan­
tage," said Martin, "I just try to stay 
off them until they release the ball, 
and just try to get a hand up. That's what I did most of the night." 
With the score S8-S I and North 
Carolina pulling away, perhaps the 
most controversial play of the eve­
ning occured. Center Kerry Ham­
monds of Middle Tennessee 
knocked Tar Heel guard Steve Hale 
to the ground as he was attempting a. 
layup. Hale landed hard on his side, 
and was later found to have a 
separated shoulder. 
Dean Smith ran down the sideline 
to scream a few words at Hammond 
before the officials interceded. Whe­
ther the hit was intentional or not is 
anyone's guess. In any case, 
however, Hale is out for the rest of 
the year with the injury. 
"They didn't want to give Steve the layup," said Smith, "but I thought it was a bit ofa heavy foul. I'd have to see the replay." 
The game proceeded without in­cident from that point, and began to resemble the blowout it was ex­pected ro be. With the Blue Raiders scoring only six more points, North Carolina was able to build its 19­point victory margin with success at the foul line: 
But all was not lost for Middle 
Tennessee. 
"Our guys have nothing to be ashamed of," said Stewart. "At this time last year, we only had three players coming back who knew each other. And this year we're sitting in an NCAA Tournament lockerroom. I think we really accomplished some­thing." 
And although the Blue Raiders did not win the game, most people would probably agree with Stewart's evaluation ofhis surprising team. 

~. ~~lo ~ol~ io oI~1111o~==~ol~' o·o],
USE THIS 20% mf COUPON TO EXPERIENCE THE UNIQUE IN 
~1) r20Q%o ~~~c?.~c:~~?€~~~~~~R~E 2 0 o%0 
-;;1_
PORCELAIN POTIERY. 
HAND WOVEN RUGS 6! 
AND MUCH MORE 
LC:I@~:=N:==o2J.::I~][~::@:•=="=c~=:~o2J;:ONj 
Running now is our one man show featuring Keith Romaine. Keith captures your imagination on vividly painted banners and framed pieces. A show not to miss Thru March 28. 
Also new for Fables is our world acclaimed Eskimo Art. And for the gourmet chocolate lovers...TRUFFLES, a new flavor every month! 
514 LINCOLNWAY EAST•MISHAWAKA, 1NlJIANA•219-255-9191 

~ Ohstrvtr/CaroJ Gales 

Middle Tennessee State's Kerry Hammonds (44) drives against North Carolina's Warren Martin in theTarHeels' 76-57 victory last night in the ACC. North Carolina will meet Notre Dame tomorrow afternoon at 2:15. Stories about North Carolina are on the back page. 
G~t'-Ut'LL 
Restaurant And Cocktail Lounge 
Authent1c Szechuan and Hunan Taste 
f30 Dixie Way South. Soufll Bend 
272·7376 
Sunday Special 11:30-3pm 
15 Entrees of your choice 
$4.95 
includes 
•soup 
"rice 

•
egg roil •hot tea Welcome NCAA fans 


St. Patrick and Campus Shell are g~v•ng away... St. Patrick lapel stickers 


Free! with any purchase! 
OPEN 24 HOURS 7DAYSAWEEK 

415 Dixieway South (At Tollroad Entrance) 
277-7929 

Mastercard and Visa accepted 
~ssssssssss~~ -~ 
The Observer Friday, March 15, 1985 -page 9 
Irish fencers play host to NCAA championships 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
For the third straight year, the Notre Dame men's fencing team will be going into the year-ending NCAA Championship Tournament with better than a legitimate chance of coming away with a national title. 
The Irish will play host to the 
championship tournament this 
weekend at the ACC. 
After finishing third in the nation in 1975 and 1976, the Irish captured national championships in 1977 and 1978. In 1979 and 1983, the Irish took second, and last year they carne away with a third-place finish. 
This year, however, the Irish have had their first perfect season since 1979 (When they were 20-0), as they amassed a strong 23-0 record against some outstanding competi­tion. The road to victory, however, will not be paved with easy chal­lenges, according to Irish head coach Mike DeCicco. 
"No one is going to have it easy," Decicco says. "This national champi­onship is designed to bring in the top 30 kids from around the country in all three weapons. There are no sure bets." 
The tournament, which begins Tuesday at 9 a.m., will run through Wednesday afternoon for the men and through Saturday afternoon for the women. 
In the men's division there will be 
30 teams represented by 90 fencers. 
With teams allowed only two entries 
in each weapon the teams with the 
most entries overall can certainly be considered favorites. Leading this class with six fencers each are the Irish, c.efending national champion Wayne State University, and the al­ledgedly top-ranked squad from Pennsylvania. 
Also, providing stiff competition will be Columbia, North Carolina, Penn ~~tate, and Yale, all of whom have q LJalified five fencers. 
"If I were a betting man, I think that I would probably limit by bet­ting t<> four schools," commented DeCicco. "Right now, it looks like Notre Dame, Wayne, CollUmbia, and Pennsylvania. All of these are strong entries." 
Overall, the Irish are well represc~nted with strong fencers in each dLvision. 
In the foil, the Irish are led by defending national champion Charles Higgs-Coulthard. In his sophomore year, he has compiled a 33-2 r·~cord along with his second­straight Great Lakes Championship. JoininJ~ Higgs-Coulthard is junior captain Mike VanderVelden, whom DeCic·co believes has a strong shot to emt:rge as the national champ. On the year, the junior went 35-7. 
Pro,riding tough challenges will be th': Wayne State entry, with Stephane Chauvel and Peter Dinsdale. Chauvel went ILJndefeated against the Irish in their last meeting of the season. Dinsdale is a defend­ing national champ from Australia. 
In tbe epee, the Irish will have the veteran senior captain, Andy Quarorli, and junior transfer Chris­tian Scherpe. Last year, both Quaroni and Scherpe were named as 


The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Sport!» Editor (2) Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Questions about these positions should be directed to Jeff Blumb at the Observer office. Personal statements and resumes are due Friday, March 15, at5p.m. 
For the 1YH5 Stanford Summer Session Bulletin and 
---··­
application. mail this coupon to Stanford Summer Session. Building liJ. Stanford Cniversity. Stanford. CA 94305. 
STANF<>RD 
SUMM:ER 
0.. 
N 
JUNE 24 THROUGH AUGUST 17 
.-\II student.< in ~m>J standing are invited to attend.
---··­


all-Americans with Scherpe finishing fourth in the tourney for Cal-State Northridge and Quaroni finishing sixth for the Irish. This year, the senior captain was 35-6 while the junior went 34-8. 
Coming into the event as the odds-on favorite to win, however, will be senior Ettore Bianchi of Wayne State. After capturing the title last year, the senior is back in strong form with an untouched record for the year. 
"Bianchi has about five people, in­cluding our two, who are going to take shots at him and try to prevent him from winning it," said DeCicco. 
In the sabre, the Irish are represented by two ofa squad which DeCicco said he believes is the best in the country this year. Juniors Don Johnson and John Edwards will be on the center strip in the sabre divi­sion after topping the field in both the Great Lakes Tournament and the regional qualifying round. This year, Johnson compiled a 28-7 markwhile Edwards was a consistent 25-5. 
Last year, Johnson captured all­American honors in the division as he finished second only to Michael Lofton of New York. This year, Lof­ton will be back to defend his title. 
Joining in the fight for the gold also will be Italian native Giovanni Girotto of Wayne State. Girotto comes into the event after taking the gold at the Great Lakes Tournament and going unbeaten against the Irish in the last regular season meet ofthe year. 
Tbe sabre field should prove to be 
the most entertaining and the most 
challenge-ridden division, accor­
ding to DeCicco. 
"The sabre field is going to be ex­
cellent," commented the Irish head 
Ready for NFL 
coach. "There :ure about five or six 
sabre men who have a legitimate 
shot at winning the gold." 
Despite Pennsylvania being ranked as the top team in the country in a fencing publication, the Irish probably should be considered as the premier team in the event. In . earlier season meetings, they took Pennsylvania by a 1 7-10 mark, and they beat the Tartars away (15-12) and at home ( 16-11 ). They also won the Great Lakes Team Champion­ship. 
"I'm very optimistic about our 
kids as far as their wanting it," said 
DeCicco. "My personal pride wants 
me to think that we are the 
strongest. If being at home and 
sleeping in your own beds will be 
any plus, then obviously that will be . a plus for us. 
"We certainly have a bettershot at 
it than we had last year. In the thirty 
or more years that I've brought 
teams to the nationals, I feel as confi­
dent with this team as I've felt with 
any other." 
Also in post-season tournament 
action is Notre Dame's women's fen­
cing team, whi<:h was 12-7 on the 
year and qualified as one of the top 
three teams in the regional qualify­
ing rounds. 
Leading the way for the Irish will 
be freshman foilist Molly Sullivan, 
who also qualified for the individual 
competition to be held next Satur­
day. 
Sullivan, who compiled one of th( 
best outings ever for a fencer at the 
Great Lakes, took the gold in her 
first-ever Great Lakes Tournament 
aftergoing 20-0 on the daywith only 
10 touches against her. On the year, 
she led all Irish fencers with 43 wins 
against only four losses. 
Joining Sullivan on the Irish squad will be junior captain Janet Sullivan (29-30) and sophomores Vittoria Quaroni (34-21) and Cindy Weeks (34-24). 
Unable to participate will be soph­omore Christina Sardegna. After replacing Janet Sullivan in the start­ing lineup and fencing well in the qualifying rounds, Sardegna will be unable to compete because of a prior commitment. The loss of the sophomore ( 13-7) has pushed Sul­livan back into the lineup and has moved junior linda Gase ( 4-4) to a backup role as the fifth fencer. 

"Christina fenced at Northwes­tern (the regional qualifying round site) and she did very well for us," explained DeCicco. "She won't be available to us because ofsome pre­vious commitments that she cannot change. With her, we could have conceivably broken into the top eight instead ofbeing in the bottom three or four." 
While Molly Sullivan could be looked upon as the odds-on favorite to be crowned as the 1985 individ­ual champion, the Irish squad, over­all, will have its hands full. Yale will be back to defend its national title and will be joined by the likes of Pennsylvania, Penn State and Wayne State. 
DeCicco, nevertheless, has confi­dence in his squad, which he said he believes possesses the potential to emerge with the title. 
The NCAA Championship action will begin for the men at 9 a.m. on both Tuesday and Wednesday in the ACC Fieldhouse. The women's ac­tion will commence at about 9:30 
a.m. on Thursday and Friday with in­dividual action beginning at about 10 a.m. on Saturday. 
Kosar cuts c·ollege career short 
Associated Press 
NILES, Ohio -Quarterback Bernie Kosar, whose strongarm led the Uni­versity ofMiami to the 1983 national championship, said yesterday he would cutshort his college career to play professional football. 
Kosar said he would make himself available for the National Football League's April 30 draft and that he would like to play for the Cleveland Browns in his native Ohio. 


"I followed th•e Browns my whole life," Kosar said at a news confer­ence. "That would be the ideal situa­tion." 
The Browns, however, would have to improve their draft position to get Kosar. As of now, they have the seventh selection. 
Granger Tap and Grill 
32 oz. Sirloin for two $15.95 Prime Rib ...... . 9.75 12 oz. Lobster Tail 18.95 
St. Patrick's DaySpecial! 
Corned Beef and Cabbage 1 -9 p.m. 
12797 St. RQad 23 277·6812 HQurs: 6 a.m. fQ 11 p.m. 
....HHIIIII'JIIHI••••q••t-IIIHIIIIIIIIIIHIHII..P~. 'IIH........._ .... 

Happy Birthday Special I 

I I I
You and your friends can have your very own Observer display ad 
: 
¥ We accept almost any picture, almost any information ...,. Just give us the material by 1 pm two publishing days prior to the birthday 
For only a few dollars per friend you can give this one-of-a-kind gift that won't be lived downfor years I 
The Observer, 303l.aFortune Student Center, 239-5303 
...............................-.................................................... 
The Buffalo Bills, with the first 
pick in this year's draft, already have 
made Bruce Smith of Virginia Tech 
their No. 1 choice. The Houston 
Oilers have the second pick. 
In Phoenix, Ariz., where the NFI.'s 
team executives are meeting this 
week, sources said the Browns had ­
made an offer to acquire Houston's 
first-round pick. 

Kosar said he currently has an 1B­hour credit load, meaning he would need to complete six credit hours this summer to graduate. He said he could complete his studies by the end ofJune-in time for NFL summer training camps. 
Kosar, whose family lives in nearby Boardman, Ohio, said he had no agent but believed he was worth as much as much as another college star, Doug Flutie. 
The Heisman Trophywinner from Boston College signed a five-year deal with the NewJersey Generalsof the United States Football League worth a reported $5 million to $8 million. 
"From what I hear from a lot of 

people, that's about what I've heard I 
should be making," Kosar said. "ButI 
think that'll be an individual thing 
with the club." 
Kosar said he had made no deci­

sion on whether to consider a USH. 
offer. 
Kosar said the University ofMiarni had been "nothing but first-class to me in my three years there." 
"It's tough. I made some really good friends," he said. "I feel an obli­gation to them, but I think it's best to take advantage of the opportunities the NFL presents me now." 
Miami Coach JimmyJohnson said Kosar told him of the decision to turn pro earlier yesterday. 
"...All I can say is we at the Univer­sity of Miami want the very best for him, and we wish him the verybest," Johnson said. 

The Observer 
Exciting 59-58 game 
Auburn holds on to beat Purdue 
ByPHnWOLF 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Freshman Chris Morris looked like a veteran yesterday afternoon as he scored 19 points, including the winning free throw, to help lift the Auburn Tigers over Purdue, S9-S8, in the first round of the NCAA Sout­heast Regional Tournament at the ACC. 
Morris ran wild against the Boiler­makers, and joined with teammate Chuck Person in a scoring barrage that Purdue could not overcome. Person, a 6-8 junior forward, pumped in 20 points and hauled down eight rebounds for the Tigers. 
The Boilermakers never led in the game, but Troy Lewis was able to tie the game at '58 with a jumper from the top of the key with 54 seconds left in the game. Auburn called timeout and then held the ball until a controversial call sent Morris to the 
line with 14 seconds left. 
Purdue's Mark Atkinson came up behind Morris just as the 6-7 for­ward received a pass from a teammate. The ball bounced off Morris' foot out of bounds, and At­kinson was whistled for the foul. 
Morris remained cool enough to make the first end of his one-and­one, but he missed the second, and Lewis grabbed the rebound for the Boilermakers. who called timeout with I 0 seconds left. 
Steve Reid, who scored 18 points for the Boilermakers, took control of the ball and drove outside to the left of the key. He was double-teamed in the corner, and dished off to James Bullock on the side of the key, but Bullock's turnaround jumper rolled 
Slow 49-38 contest 
Kansas downs Ohio in first round 
By LARRY BURKE  Kansas' spurts took over, and that  Kansas seemed reluctant to put the  
Sports Writer  was the difference in the game."  game away. But the Bobcats' offense  
In the first half, Ohio was success­ got worse instead of better. Junior  

harmlessly off the rim as time ran out. 
"We ran the play we wanted," Purdue head coach Gene Keady said afterward. "We were trying to get Troy out in the corner for a jumper or throw it inside to Bullock if they had Steve or Troy covered. It worked out, it just didn't go in." 
Auburn jumped out to S-0 lead to start the game, and the Tigers led by as much as nine in the first half. Much of the scoring in the early going came from Morris, who snaked through the Purdue defense to slam the ball home offfast breaks, alley-oops and rebounds. 
The Boilermakers came within two at 23-21 and traded baskets un­til just before halftime, when the Tigers ran off four points to lead at the intermission, 31-25. 
It was Auburn's running offense that put the Tigers ahead in the game, but it was the slow game that allowed them to stay on top until the end. Auburn won the Southeastern Conference Tournament last week with the slow-down game, accor­ding to head coach Sonny Smith, and the Tigers were able to do it once again. 
"As quick as they shut the clock off in the Southeastern Conference Tournament, we had to gear down and run our half-court offense," Smith said. "So we are probably ex­ecuting our half-court offense better right now than we did any time during the year." 
It was a good thing for the Tigers that their offense was able to generate points because their defense was not capable ofstopping the Purdue attack. Reid scored all but four of his 18 points in the first half, but when the Tigers went to a box-and-one defense. Lewis came through with 19 points, I 7 in the second half. 

Bullock pitched in with 13 points and grabbed I 0 boards for the Purdue cause, and Robert Littlejohn added nine rebounds and eight points on three-of-five shooting from the field and two-for-two from the line. 
"We weren't playing that bad of­fensively," Reid pointed out. "We were getting the shots we wanted and hitting them with a pretty good percentage. We just couln't get them stopped down on our defen­sive end. Everytime we'd cut it to three or one, they would come back down and answer, and we could never get the lead." 
It often was Person who came down and hit the shots for Auburn down the stretch, a role he said he is used to filling for his team. The Brantley, Ala., native hit five shots in a row for the Tigers in a four-minute period late in the game. 
"I think when we went to a couple change-up defenses," Keady ex­plained, "and Person hit a couple shots from the top of the circle, that carried them in. That really got them over the hump. 
"We were never really in it," Keady continued, "and they con­trolled it all the way. It probably would have been a shame if they would have lost it." 
lbe Tigers will meet Kansas to­morrow afternoon at 4:45 in the ACC. 
Friday, March 15, 1985 -page 10 

Thr ObsC'rver/Carol Gales 

Scott Hicks handles the ball against Oregon State last night in the ACC. The sophomore guard bad 14 points in Notre Dame's NCAA Tournament victory. Stories about that game and tomor· row's second-round contest with North Carolina are on the back page. 
Senior Bar wishes you a safe and sunny break. Don't do anything we wouldn't do. 

The Management 
Ohio coach Danny Nee had his 

Bobcats try something a little bit dif­
ferent in yesterday's first-round 
NCAA Tournament game against 
Kansas, and, for a while, it looked as 
if Nee's game plan might work. But 
in the end, Nee found that there is no 
substitute for scoring, and Larry 
Brown's hot-shooting Jayhawks just 
had too much offense for Ohio to 
handle as they took a 49-38 decision 
in the ACC. 
"Our game plan," explained Nee, "was to come in and take a 40­minute game and make it a 2'5­minute game, where we come down the court and eat up some of the clock, no matter what defense they're in. We just wanted to attack the basket and play our game." 
The Bobcats' game is defense, and 

they played it well for most of yes­
terday's contest. Ohio held Kansas 
to just 18 first-half points, even 
though the Jayhawks were shooting 
75 percent from the field. The key to 
the Bobcats' first-half defensive suc­
cess was rebounding, where the 
smaller Ohio team had an amazing 
13-4 edge at intermission. The Bob­cats' only problem was cold shoot­ing, which prevented them from capitalizing on Kansas' early slug­gishness. Ohio managed only I 5 points in the first half, and hit just 33 percent of its shots for the after­noon. 
"The big thing was that when we had to put the ball in the basket at certain times during the game, we couldn't," said Nee. "Then I think 
ful at shutting down the Jayhawks' 
potent transition game, mainly be­
cause the Bobcats accomplished the 
improbable task of preventing all 
three of Kansas' front-line players, 6­
S Ron Kellogg, 6-I I Danny Manning, 
and 7-1 Greg Dreiling, from grab­
bing even one rebound. 
The Bobcats came out ofthe lock­
croom for the second half trailing by 
just three points, and rallied to tie 
the game at 20 with 17 minutes 
remaining on a driving layup by for­
ward Vic Alexander, a regular Bob­
cat starter, who, depite a knee 
injury, came offthe bench to play 32 solid minutes. But at that point, Kansas, which never trailed in the game, suddenly started to come to life. The Jayhawks went on an 18-7 spurt over the next eleven minutes to take a 38-27lead. 
The key play occurred with I 0 minutes left, when, with Kansas leading, 25-20, Manning made a sensational save on a ball out of bounds and fed teammate Calvin Thompson for a 12-footer that put theJayhawks up by seven and forced Nee to call a timeout. 
"If we had been able to take the lead, then things might have been different," Nee speculated. "But Kansas controlled the tempo and the style of the game just by being ahead. I don't think there was much pressure on them, simply because they were always in the lead." 
Ohio still had a chance to catch the Jayhawks in the second half, as guard Robert Tatum was ice cold, hitting on just one ofeight shots, and forwards Henry Smith and Rick Scar­berry each canned just two of their seven shots. Point guard Paul Baron got into foul trouble, so the bulk of the scoring responsibility fell to Al­exander. The senior responded with a game-high I 5 points, but it just wasn't enough. 

The worse things got for Ohio in the second half, the better they got for Kansas. The Jayhawks went on a 9-I tear late in the half to take a I 7­point lead and put the game away. 
Junior guard Calvin Thompson led a balanced Kansas attack with I2 points, while Kellogg and Dreiling added 10 apiece and Manning had nine. Dreiling, who is still battling the Ou, scored eight points and pulled down eight boards in the second half. 
"In the first half, I thought we played scared," said Brown. "But in the second half, our big guys did the job. They controlled the boards. 
"This was a tough game for us be­caust. we haven't experienced playing without a shot clock, orwith anybody spreading it out the way Ohio did against us. I think we're going to see a lot of games in the tournament with teams playing slower, so this was a learning experi­ence for us." 
Kansas advances to face Auburn in Saturday's second round in the ACC. The Tigers beat Purdue, 59-58, yes­terday afternoon. 
.•.,ELcoME 
¥2 Litre of ITAS fROZEN MAR~!~hi.,.d. , 
ShoW us your tic.~e2':~':ore who purchase· y porlY o, $:J 50 each or 
andfor on dinner costing . i FR££ f a lunch or1 f"tre or rnorgoritciS S 111ore. the Y2 • ,·res 3/31/85
O.tfer exp 
Irish  and Notre Dame shot a collective 64 percent from the field, including 77  64, was icing on the cake as the Irish cruised to their 21st victory of the  
continuedfrom page 12  percent in the second half. In addi­tion, the Irish shot a quite respec­ season to eight losses. Oregon State, meanwhile, closed out its season at  
not the only one  to play well last  table 90 percent from the line.  22-9.  
night.  Nearly  every  Notre  Dame  
player who  saw  action  last  night  It was not Rivers alone in the final  Notre Dame now must turn its at­ 
;..  made a valuable contribution.  moments. Price had a key jumper,  tention to the Tar Heels. With only  
The game was truly a team win, as  and Dolan's layup and ensuing three­ one day of preparation, the task of  
four players were in double figures  point play to put Notre Dame up, 71­ winning will not be an easy one.  

Entertainment Nightly 
~MIGO's 
* 

Mexican I American Restaurant 
0 
0 
0

2313 E. Edison at 1111ftwoed, South Bend 
J 

234-3594 
~ 



~c:»cJlC3l~r----------------------------------------F-r-id-ay_._M_a_rc_h
__ts_._t_9s_s___P_a_ge---11 

Garry Trudeau
Doonesbury 
Zeto Kevin Walsh 


THERE's £VE'N A
Y<l/LL LOVe IT AT 

!)(')6 "RuN FDR
FT. METHUSElAH . 
IT'S A S\J/NGIN ' 
RCNER o.tER THERe! 
PLACE! 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 33 Singer Sonny 64 M.Zola 10 Remains 1 Old playing 34 Can. prov. 66 Building wings 11 Turning tool card 38 Small boy 67 "-Bug" 1.2 Pianist 
6 Deface 39 Warm or Hot 68 Less common Schnabel 10 Smelting dross 42 Former alii· 69 Realizes 13 Dinner signals' 14 Island off ance acronym 70 Ares' sister 22 Possessive . 
Venezuela 43 Swing around 71 Lawmaker 23 Brazil e.g. 15 Chi·chi 45 Fr. composer 25 Sports arbiter ' 16 Poi source 46 Jouster's 27 Concordes 17 Kind of button weapon 28 Roman: abbr. 18 Life: Lat. 48 Sacred images DOWN 29 Winds spirally : 19 Envelope abbr. 1 Bark cloth 30 Part of A.D. 20 Jillian of TV 50 Put under 2 Irish island 21 Ballroom dance contract 3 Site of Magna 31 Yule beverage , 
circa 1910 51 Marble Carta signing 33 Wheat husks 24 Ancient winter 54 Snow White 4 Kimono sash 35 Streisand role i 
holidays friend 5 Undiplomatic 36 Add spirits to 26 Transit patrons 55 How some like 6 Squirrels away 37 -Scott 27 Cook slowly their eggs 7 Grain bin 40 Arafat group 29 Ezra Pound work 59 Sailor 8 Aleutian isle 41 Fireside 32 Hitchcock's 62 Long walk 9 Fastballer footwear 
"The 39 -" 63 US author Nolan 44 Court figure 
Deep Inside, BriOJI wondered If the oltler guys ~to hla Ideal or regarded him only as comic relief. 
47 Cure 56 Spice for 49 Ron of baseball stuffing 50 Old Fr. coin 57 Stravinsky 51 What phoenix 58 Food shop 
rises from 60 Table spread 52 Cunning 61 Swiss city 53 Joint 65 Famous 54 Legal papers chairman 
Thursday's Solution 

Campus 
Friday, March 15 
•4:20 
p.m. · Physics Colloquium, "Experimental Tests ofthe Liquid Drop Model ofNuclear Fission," Dr. Margaret McMahan, Lawrence Berkeley Labo· ratory, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m.· Lecture, "Applications ofCD in Bioor· ganic Chemistry, Especially in Oligosaccharide Structure Determination," Prof. Koji Nakanishi, Room 123 Nieuwland. 


Saturday, March 16 
Midsemester Vacation Through Sunday, 
March24 
•8 a.m. · 3 p.m. · Graduate Management Adml<i· sions Test, Engineering Auditorium. 
Sunday, March 17 
•I 
· 4 p.m. · Opening Art Exhibition, Georges Rouault: Graphics from the Museum's Collection. 

•5 
p.m. · St. Patrick's Day Mass, Father Eman McMullin, Celebrant, Log Chapel. 


TV Tonight. ' 
6:00p.m. 6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
!O:OOp.m. ll:OOp.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 16 M*A*S*H 22 Three's Comp~y 28 jeopardy 16 Safe Harbor 22 WKRP in Cincinnati 28 Wheel of Fortune 16 Code Name: Foxfice 22 Detective in the House 28 Benson 34 Washington Week in Review 28 Webster 34 Wall Street Week 16 "V'' 22 Dallas 28 Streethawk 34 Rogers & Hammerstein: The Sound of American Music 
16 Miami Vice 
22 Falcon Crest 
28 Matt Houston 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
-
..• 
Bloom County 
M<U, l:+t 11/JSOWTaY 5T1/M~P. IJINKLEY. SHOI/t.fl!T N 11 REP Oli 11 (#(;eN 1le maw ! 
\ 
KWV 7IIE 51/N 15 fli!E m &0 NOVA" IINfl Elf'Wil€. 5WIIUOW!N& evet<.YTHIN& -· 
MOWT!l!NS... OC£11N5 ... '"TI/CO 8eU5''-·€VcRY7H!tl& IN ~ &!liNT Ffl(f 8111-1-...
I. 
Berke Breathed 
f(ffl a? &Rer:w 1 
'rfJV'Re WOf(IMN6 11801/T CH005!Nb 11 ~fl OR 6RfEN JTE WHOIIIU Of THIS WIU Hllf?.Pt.Y 6£11 WH/5PER Of II MeM?!?Y IN 11 5/IOI?T 
l'f3 MIUION YEilRf> ?.. 
;;/""'../ 
( ·: 
~J. :C,\· 


The ND Student Activities Board is now accepting applications for the '85-'86 school year for the positions of ... 
STUDEN1. MANAGERS 
of 

DARBY'S PLACE ROCK DULAC RECORDS THE UNDERGROUND STUDENT SAVER 
Applications available in the SAB Office-2nd Floor LaFortune Deadline: Thursday, March 28th Interviews begin March 28th 
Your Student Activities Board 
(The leader in entertainment)  ~.-k  
is still working...  '  ....  
Yettocome: More Movies... "The Cotton Club"  ~  

AnTostal Festivities"Gone With The Wind.. 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival("Footloose" "Bachelor Party" 
©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 3/15/85All Rights Reserved 
Friday, March 1 5, 1985 -page 12
S~orts 

Notre Dame wins, prepares for North Carolina 

-
joseph Price ( 40) played an excellentgame for Notre Dame last night as the Irish doumed Oregon State, 79-70, in a first-round NC4A Tournament game at the ACC. The junior will attempt to better his 16-point production tomorrow when the lrisbtake on North Caroltna.jeffBlumb describes last night'sgame at top right, andEricScheuermann previews the Tar Heel matchupbelow right. 

Tar Heels struggle, but then blowout MTSU 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
Ifanyone was planning on missing any ofyesterday's four NCAA Tourn­ament games at the ACC, the eve­ning game pitting North Carolina against Middle Tennessee State was supposed to be the one to choose ­unless, ofcourse, you wanted to wit­ness a big blowout by the Tar Heels. 
But with II :33 left in the game, swingman Lonnie Thompson slammed the ball through the net on a breakaway for Middle Tennessee, giving the Blue Raiders a 45-44 lead. Needless to say, most everyone in at­tendance was genuinely surprised by these developments, but that didn't stop anybody from choosing sides. 
When North Carolina head coach Dean Smith called a timeout at this juncture to settle his Tar Heels down, the almost full ACC erupted in a roar for the hard-working and outmanned Blue Raiders. 
However, Smith must have said something during that timeout that got his team going, because Tar Heel center Brad Daugherty, who finished the game as the high-point 
see UNC, page 8 

David Rivers puts on a show to lift Irish over Oregon State, 79-70, in first round 
ByJEFF BLUMB "'That's my job in the final minutes "In the t1rst half, we missed four Assistant Sports Editor to just play and not have turn­wide-open Iayups and made I 0 turn­overs," Rivers said. "I'm supposed to overs. That put us in a hole right 
For seven minutes last night, the take control and take good, selective away," explained Oregon State head ACC was host to Late Night with shots." coach Ralph Miller. David Rivers, as Notre Dame's fresh­Price's opportunity to hurt A.C. Green may have been Notre man guard took over the game in its Oregon State was created before last Dame's nemesis all night with his 26 final moments and led the Irish to a night's gamt: even started. With Ken points and 12 rebounds, but it was 79-70 win over Oregon State. Notre Barlow stiU feeling the effects of a Flowers and Darrin Houston who Dame now advances to the second bout with strep throat, he was in­bombed away from the outside in round of the NCAA Tournament, serted into the starting line-up, and the second half to keep the Beavers facing the Tar Heels of North the junior took good advantage of within reach of Notre Dame. Then, Carolina tomorrow at 2:1 5 p.m. in the chance for playing time. Price, the roof fell in on the Irish with nine the ACC ( CBS-1V). who had been slumping of late, hit minutes left in the game. 
Following a Notre Dame timeout seven of his nine shots, adding two Leading SS-45, Notre Dame began with 7:02 remaining, at which time free throws for a total of 16points on w get sloppy and allowed Oregon the Irish were clinging to a S6-54 the night. State back into the game. The lead, Rivers began to dominate the "Tonight was Joseph Price's big­Beavers scored seven straight points contest. Doing many of the things gest moment in a Notre Dame uni­and had an 11-I run to pull them which made him co-MVP with Ken form," said Irish head coach Digger even with the Irish at 56. Barlow, the freshman racked up 10 Phelps after the win. "We felt he "We were rushing too much. We of his team-leading 21 points in the could step in to play a role as a small simply lost our composure during game's final seven minutes. forward because he shoots the ball that stretch," Phelps said. 
"Coach Phelps gave him the green well. Yet, we thought he could still "Notre Dame's turnovers let us light and Tim Kempton made the do a job defensively for us, and he back into the game," added Miller. picks for him," said Oregon State's did." "The trouble is, we could never get Darryl Flowers of the explosion. Notre Dame jumped out to an one point ahead." "We allowed him to have the ball early 8-2 lead and never trailed in The Irish went to their bread and too long, and he created opportuni­the game. The Irish managed to ex­butter, then, for the game's last ties for himself. We expected a good tend their lead to 30-20 at one point seven minutes and the freshman game from him, but it was really in the half, before heading to the responded admirably. But he was Scott Hicks and Joseph Price that lockerroom at half up by nine, 35­
see IRISH, page 10hurt us." 26. 

Two top guards meet in classic match up when Notre Dame and UNC collide in ACC 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN intimidating and effective they can that could hurt them in the future. Sports Writer be inside. Starting off-guard Steve Hale suf­But Notre Dame will have more fered a shoulder separation when he With both Notre Dame and North size to go against the huge Tar Heel was fouled attempting a layup and 
Carolina winning first-round NCAA front line than did the Raiders. Tim wiU not play again this season. Tournament games last night, a very Kempton, Donald Royal, Jim Dolan "Hale means so much to our team interesting confrontation is set for and maybe even Gary Voce will be defensively," says Smith. "AU year tomorrow, when the Fighting Irish called on to contribute inside. IfKen long he's been guarding the other and the Tar Heels will meet for the Barlow can recover from the strep team's toughest man, and he's a great right to advance to Birmingham, throat that has plagued him of late, foul shooter. We're disappointed Ala., for the regional finals of the he will enhance both the Irish shoot­Steve can't be with us. It definitely tournament. ing and rebounding game. hurts our chances." 
"(To beat North Carolina) I think "Although North Carolina won'tThe last time the two teams met you've got to be very strong have Steve Hale on Saturday," sayswas on March 17, 1977, when North defensively inside," said Middle Ten­Phelps, "I know Dean Smith will ad­Carolina upset the Irish in another 
nessee head coach Bruce Stewart just."
NCAA Tournament game by a score after his team lost to the Tar Heels, Smith said he felt that his team'sof 79-77. Head coaches Digger 76-57, last night. "I think you've got sluggish play last night was in partPhelps and Dean Smith are 1-1 to be a good rebounding team. And I due to playing on a strange floor, andagainst each other, as the Irish think a quick team would hurt North now his team will have to face thebested the Tar Heels in an NIT semi­Carolina." Irish in their familiar ACC arena.
final in 1973. 
The Irish have shown themselves "It was a mental thing," said Smith 
The Tar Heels will enter the game to be a strong defensive team inside, about his team's troubles against with four players standing 6-1 0 or a good rebounding team, and Middle Tennessee. "But I don't taller. These inside forces will prob­quicker than other Notre Dame know what it will be like if we play ably be Notre Dame's main concern. squads in recent years. A strong against Notre Dame. It'll be louder, Center Brad Daugherty, forward Joe game by all, especially by those obviously." Wolf and reserve big man Warren inside, will be necessary. The game will also match two Martin all demonstrated last night Although the Tar Heels won last 
see TAR HEELS, page 7against Middle Tennessee just how night's game, they suffered a loss 

Volunteer assistant coach Don Casey moves on 
Editor's Note: Today The Obseroer concludes its series profiling the as­sistant coaches of the Notre Dame men's basketball team. Assistant Don Casey is the last coach in the series.  become reidentified with the col­lege game, something he left three" teams ago. "Being with Digger (Phelps) and at Notre Dame will help other col­leges take notice," comments  months the owner was telling me who to start." With Casey back in San Diego, Phelps asked his old friend to come out to Notre Dame as a volunteer assistant. And although Casey had  Casey said he still finds the role to be a good experience. "Basically I'm supposed to com­ment on things I see," says Casey. "My role is general in nature be­cause you have three very fine as­ perience, but for Casey that is just as well. "I don't know of any profes­sional opportunities," comments Casey. "I wouldn't rule out the NBA, but I think the best thing for  
ByJOE BRUNEITI  Casey. "The name and the visibility  to leave his family back in Califor­ sistants here. Sometimes the best  me  is to get back in the college  
Sports Writer  here are great. I felt I would have a  nia he said he was more than happy  thing to say is to say nothing at all  game  where  I'm  more  com­ 
good experience by being here. I  to come to South Bend.  because there  are  a  lot of good  fortable."  
If Notre Dame volunteer assis­ felt I needed  to get reidentified  "I had one or two other places to  things going on here. I'm observ­ Before Casey took the plunge  
tant basketball coach Don Casey  with the coUege game."  go, but Digger was the first to ap­ ing in a general way."  into the NBA, he spent nine years  
ever writes an autobiography, his  Casey began the year in Italy as a  proach me," Casey says. "Digger  as the head coach of the Temple  
chapter on Notre Dame is going to  coach for Scavelli in the Italian  and  I  have  been  friends  since  "Digger is helping me out as a  Owls while accumulating a 1'5 1-94  
be very short.  League, but a dispute over coach­ Philadelphia  when  he  was  the  person. He's keeping me occupied  ledger. He took his 1978-79 squad  
Casey joined the Irish coaching  ing and just about everything else  freshman coach at Penn and I was  and he's keeping my name in the  to the NCAA Tournament by pos­ 
staff January  I 1, and his stint at  prompted Casey to return to his  an  assistant  at  Temple.  Digger  game."  ting a  25-4 mark enroute to the  
Notre Dame will end at the end of  San Diego home.  asked me to come out and play it  Before Casey's ordeal in Italy he  East Coast Conference title.  
this season.  Although Casey isn't  "They're crazier than any other  by ear."  spent last season as an assistant to  Casey's association with Temple  
going to spend much time under  organization I've ever been with,"  With  Phelps  already  having  Jim Lynam of the NBA's Los ltn­ started long before. He graduated  
the Dome, these few months are  Casey says ofhis former team. "We  coaches Jim Baron, Gary Brokaw,  geles Clippers. The year before he  from  Temple  in  1970 and then  
playing a vital role in his coaching  had  a  contract  dispute  and  a  and Pete Gillen on his staff, there  served as Paul Westhead's assistant  went on to serve as an assistant for  
career. Hopefully for Casey this will enable him to once again  dispute over philosophy. Things just didn't work out. After three  isn't much room for Casey, nor much for him to do. Nonetheless,  with the Chicago Bulls. That is the extent of Casey's professional ex- see CASEY, page 7  







