JPW itinerary -page 3 


JPW kicks off tonight; cabaret-talent show is first event on schedule 

A Cambodian child enjoys the cool water of a bucket in the hot sun ofNong Prue, Thailand. The youngster was one of thousands of Cambodians whofled to Thailand to escape thefighting between Vietnamese and Khmer Rougeforces. 
Lower costs expected for this year's Senior Formal, slated for March 30 
By DIANE SCHROEDER 
News Staff 
"The Days of Wine and Roses" is 
the theme of this year's senior for­
mal on Saturday. March 30. at the 
luxurious and famous Chicago Pal­
mer House. 
Committee member Steve Smith 
said. "The seniors want something 
special and large groups are better 
facilitated in Chicago." 
Bids are $';6 per couple and may be purchased in the LeMans and LaFortune lobbies from c; to 7:00 
p.m. from February 20 to 2I, February 2S to 28, and March 4 to I 0. Rooms of three or four people will cost Sl c; per person per night. 
Palmer House promises check-in procedures will be quicker this year than last year. although the first per­son to arrive will have to pay the entire price of the room. 
Events for the weekend include performances at the Second City comedy club on Friday night at 8:30 and I I. Only I00 tickets are available for the first show and 7'; for the second. all tickets will be sold on a first-come, first-serve basis during the bid purchases. 
On Saturday afternoon. students can explore the diverse sights of Chicago. or simply relax in the pool or jacuzzi. 
The party starts again at 6 on Sat­urday, however, as the cocktail party swings into action. 
During the cocktail hour, a violinist and pianist will serenade. and photographer Neil King will be snapping candid and formal pictures with which to remember the eve­ning. 
Dinner and dancing are planned, with music provided by The Haymarket Riot. an eight-piece band and former back-up group for the popular band Chicago. 
Costs for the weekend are lower this year. according to Senior Formal committee member Steve Smith. The committe tried to reduce the cost of the event without com­promising any of the style for which it has become famous. 
"Fundraisers have been a key to reducing the costs for this year's for­mal. the most successful of which have been the candy sales." ·said Smith. The movie "Brian's Song" was also sponsored by the senior formal committee and was a huge success as welL This is the first time fundraisers have significantly helped to defray the cost of the of the weekend. which was reduced by sc; 
a bid. Overall savings for the weekend total S4,000. 
Gilbert's Formalwear is also pro­viding reductions on tuxedo rentals with first choices guaranteed. Spe­cific prices along with the Saint Mary's Plants and Flowers flower list will be available upon purchasing the bids. 
By CLAIRE KNEUER 
News Staff 
The 33rd annual Junior Parents' Weekend kicks off tonight with an unprecedented cabaret-talent show at 8 in the ACC and the traditional cocktail dance at 9. 
Chairwoman Julie Schuessler and Executive Coordinator Tim Griffin estimate 70 percent of the junior class and their parents will attend the three-day event. 
Griffin reports that despite wea­ther conditions, everything is going according to schedule. Schuessler said there have been some cancella­tions and probably will be more, but she emphasized that juniors who wish to cancel must do so officially at registration. 
Registration will be in the LaFortune Student Center on Thursday night from 6 until 10; Friday from 9 a.m. until 8 p.m.; and Saturday from 9 a.m. until noon. Tickets for all events will also be available at the door of the cocktail dance. 
All juniors are welcome to partici­pate in the weekend's activities even if their parents are unable to attend the weekend, Griffin said. 
"We want all juniors to partici­pate. Bring a date or join your friends and their parents," said Grif­fin. 
"We decided to add the cabaret­
talent show to show off juniors who 
have never been recognized in 
Notre Dame's theatrical or musical 
groups," Schuessler said. 
Featured in the show's program will be comedy skits, a one-act play, piano solos, a guitar recital and a rock group. John Cerabino, of Keenan Revue "Andy Looney" fame, will direct the show. 
The JPW Committee is very en­thusiastic about the theme of this year's cocktail dance, "A Taste of American Cities," which features food booths from 12 cities. Each booth will embody the spirit and delicacies ofthe particular U.S. city. 
Bill Hickey, director of Notre Dame Food Services, appointed managers from his staff to oversee the 12 booths and established a competition between them, in hopes that this rivalry would add to the creativity and ingenuity of the decorations. 
"They recognize that this is a student-run affair and help us in any way they can, always allowing us to remain in charge," Griffin and Schuessler said, praising Notre Dame Food Services. 
Saturday's main event will be the President's Dinner, at which Univer­sity President Father Theodore Hes­burgh will preside over almost 4,000 guests. Junior Class President Rick Ruehlmann will also be a featured speaker. 
After dinner, buses will be pro­vided to take guests from the ACC to the dorms for hall parties. 
The buses will run continuously between 10:30 p.m. and 1:30 a.m. to alleviate problems caused by wea­ther and limited campus parking. 
The final event of the weekend 
will be Sunday brunch, beginning at 
10:30 a.m. at the ACC. Do•t Keough, president and chiefoperating officer of Coca-Cola, will be the guest speaker. 
"Keough was chosen not only be­cause he's a dynamic speaker, but because he will offer a parent's per­spective as he has children here at Notre Dame," said Schuessler. 
Additional wekend activities in­clude the academic workshops, con­certs by Shenanigans and the Notre Dame Jazz Band, an open house at the Center for Social Concerns, tours of the Snite Museum, and a foreign studies reception. This reception is another innovation of this year's committee. 
"We added the foreign studies reception as a special opportunity for the students who spend a year or semester abroad to share their over­seas friendships and experiences with their parents," said Griffin. 
The JPW Committee said it looks 
forward to seeing weeks of hard 
work blossom. It began planning in 
early October, advised byJoni Neal, 
director ofstudent activities. 
Schuessler described the essence ofJunior Parents' Weekend, saying, "What is special about JPW is that it brings your two worlds together ­the world ofschool meets the world ofhome." 
Holy Cross bathrooms flooded 
By BETH WHELPLEY 
News Staff 
The north-wing bathrooms ofall six floors. including the sub-basement. of Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's were inundated Wednesday afternoon when a frozen water pipe split at approximately 3:30p.m. 
The pipe leaked into a holding tank before flooding the bathrooms. Electricity was also shut offtemporarily for safety measures because some electrical wiring had gotten wet. 
"Damage was done to the electrical wiring. the sprinkler system. and a window which was broken in the tower." said Hall Director Peggy Hayes. "No damage was done to any of the student rooms or student belongings." 
The bathrooms were separated by a hallway provid­ing enough avenues to veer the water to the sub­basement. 
Because of the unavailability of the north-wing bathrooms and the uncertainty of the extent of the damage. residents ofthe north wing were asked to leave the building. When the students returned from dinner. "Everything was found to be OK." said Hayes. 
Richard Clebek. director ofsecurity. said the leak was stopped by 6 p.m. Repairs were completed on the pipe yesterday. and the system is back in working order. 
"It was mostly an inconvenience." said Clebek. "I would say it was a direct result of the storm. A window blew in." 
Problems arising from the damaged sprinkler system were alleviated by several student volunteers, who patrolled the halls to check for signs ofsmoke or fire. 
. "It's not unusual for pipes to freeze." Hayes said. "This building was built before the turn of the century, so it's not surprising a thing like this would happen." She later commented that the chances of a recurrent water leak are "very slim." 
1 I 
~ 
1 
! 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
------......-.,...,..-..,...,-----­The Observer Friday, February 15, 1985 -page 2 
In Brief 

Singer Stevie Wonder, saying he was a 
"conscientious criminal" against oppression, was arrested along with a group of anti-apartheid demonstrators yesterday outside the South African embassy. Wonder was taken into custody by Washing­ton police during the latest in a daily series of protests held outside the embassy by the "Free South Africa" organization. 
"Yes, on this Valentine's Day I will become a conscientious cri­minal for world justice and against oppression, segregation and apar­theid," Wonder said. ·AP 
Profit is a requirement at a Morris Brown College student-run restaurant, where hotel and restaurant management stu­dents get hands-on experience and a feel for what it takes to operate in a profit-loss environment. School loyalties wlll not stand in the way ofsales: the restaurant's largest market is the 10,000 students at the Atlanta University complex. · The Observer 
The stock market turned downward in heavy trading yesterday, running into resistance at the 1,300 level in the Dow Jones industrial average. Analysts said enthusiasm remained high about the economic outlook and the stock market's rousing start on 1985. However, they said it was evident that some traders were using the 1 ,300 mark in the Dow as a cue to cash in some profits. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials fell 1 0.04 to 1 ,287.88. Big Board volume totaled 139.73 million shares, against 
142.46 million in the previous session. -AP 
Of Interest ~ 
The NAACP and its historical reflections will be the topic of a lecture delivered by Professor joseph Scott of Notre Dame's sociology department. The talk is scheduled for Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Colfax Cultural Center, 9 I 4 Lincolnway W., and is part of the organization's observance of Black History Month. · The Obsen•er CILA will be sponsoring a retreat from Feb. 22 through 24. Anyone interested in participating should sign up at the Center for Social concerns today. The retreat will be led by Sister Therese Mac Gillis. Cost will be S7. '50. ­The Obsen1er The Shenanigans singing group will per· form for Junior Parents Weekend tomorrow at 3 p.m. in Washington Hall. All are welcome and admission is free. ·The Observer Weather A 40 percent chance of snow Friday with highs in the mid to upper teens. Friday night, a chance offlurries with lows from zero to five above. Mostly sunny Saturday with highs in the mid to upper 20s. ·AP  
To our readers: Well, the gremlins have struck again, this time disabling our typesetting equipment during the middle of last night's production. As a result, it is not possible to include certain sections in this issue, such as Viewpoint and the Inside Column. In addition, today's delivery of The Observer may be running a little behind schedule. We apologize, and we hope to have the problems fixed by Monday.  
Today"s lssu~ was produced by: Design Editor................. Maur~en MurphyThe Observer Design Assistant ............ Matt Graclanett<: Layout Staff................................... Tom Hall Jennif~r Hom Mariel Labrador jeanette Burns Tht: Obs<:rvt:r (USPS W9 2·4000) is Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck publlsh~d Monday through Friday and News Editor........................... Marc Ramir~z on home football Saturdays. nc~pt Copy Editor ....................................... Uz Flor during exam and vacation periods. Th<: Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf Obs<:rv~r is published by the students of Viewpoint Copy Editor .........John Heasly the University of Notre Dame and Saint Viewpoint Layout................ John M~nnell Mary·s College. Subscriptions may b~ Features Copy Editor ..........John MenneII purchaS<"d for 130 per year ( 120 ~roe· Features Layout .................... Chris BQwler mester) by writing The: Ob~~t:rv<:r, P.O. ND Day Editor ...................... Mark Wint~rs Box Q. Notre Dam~. Indiana 46~~6­SMC Day Editor............ Maggie O'Connell Th<: Obs<:rvt:r is a member of The: Ad Deslgn ............................ John O"Connor AMoclat<:d Prc:u. All r~production Mary Carol Creadon righls are re~rved. Photographer ........................... Vic Guarino Typist.. ............................. Bill llighduch~ck  


Communication & Theatr«-Film!lil at the Snit.-Indiv. admission $2.50 Series tickets also available 
Fri. Feb. 15  Mon.feb. 18  Tues. Feb. 19  
Claude Goretta's A G•rl From Louoine(1982)  • Federlto Fellini's Felllnl Satyricon(l970)  Eric Rohmer's 'Moral Tal(>'  
(rescheduled lrom Jan. 25)  7:00 & 9:40pm  My Night At Moud's(1969)  
7:30 & 9:30pm  7:30pm  

£**** * * * * * * * * * * 

* ****i 

i  DISTINGUISHED STUDENT  :  
!  AWARD  :  
!  ~  
~-tc;  The Notre Dame Alumni Association will be accepting nominations  ~  
:::  from February 1 to February 22 for the 4th annual Distinguished Student  
t  Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor an out­standing senior student at the University based on the following criteria:  !  
::;-tc~!i  1) Service to Notre Dame, 2) Service to the Community, and, 3) Good Academic Standing.  i ~  

? Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on ~ the second floor of the Administration Building, The Center for ~ Social Concerns" and at Campus Ministry Office in the * ! Memorial Library :
! Nominations must be submitted to the Association by feb. 22. 1985. : 
****************************************************** 
communiCAnor. 
~THEATRE 


You've been studying for hours. The pages are blurring and your stomach is stirring. So why not take a break and call Domino's Pizza? We'll be there with a hot, custom-made pizza in 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed! All of our pizzas are made with 100% real dairy cheese and fresh, not frozen, toppings. Now isn't that worth contemplating! 
Menu 
All Pizzas Include Our Special Blend of Sauce and 100% Real Cheese 
Our Superb Cheese Pizza 12"'cheese$4.99 
Q
16" cheese $7.19 
® 

Domino's Deluxe 5 1tems for the pnce of 4 Pepperoni. Mushrooms. Onions. Green Peppers and Sausage 12'" deluxe$ 8.55 16'" deluxe $12.35 
Electives Pepperoni. Mushrooms. Black Olives. Onions. Green Olives. Sausage. Ground Beef, Ham. Green Peppers. Double Cheese. Extra Thick Crust 12" pizza$ .89 per item 16" pizza $1.29 per item 
Coke" 116 oz. bottles. 59¢. 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00 
Limited Delivery Area 
Pnces do no! tnclude apphcable sales tax c 1984 Oomtno·s Ptzza Inc 
r----------------------,
Pay only $5.99 for a

$5.99 
12" one item pizza and 2 Cokes· .

Special 
Good Ftl., Sat., and Sun. Only 


Fast, Free Delivery™ Plaza 23 Center 

-1835 South Bend Ave. 
-. South Bend Phone: 277-2151 
• JTC NA 103 2650 
• • 1 1984 Dommo s P1zza. Inc
Ia
~~====~========~ 
' , ----------I ® 
L----------------------J 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERSTM FREE. 
The Observer 
Sushi eaters run danger of acquiring parasites 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Sushi may be savory, but people who eat the raw fish are at risk of acquiring parasitic worms that can cause sharp abdominal pains, Japanese doctors say. 
The worms have to be removed with forceps stuck down the pa­tient's throat and esophagus into the stomach. 
In 15 years, doctors in Japan treated 178 patients who had the roundworm infection resulting from eating uncooked fish. The patients had abdominal pains within 12 hours after eating, and many suf­fered nausea and vomiting. 
But this condition is rare in the United States despite the increasing popularity of sushi, said Dr. Robert Fontaine of the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta. 
One possible reason, he said, is that these worms are more common in fish in Japan than in the United States. They are found regularly on the muscles of only a few species of fish found in U.S. waters, he said. 
Fontaine said the first case in the United States of roundworm attach­ing itself to the stomach and being pulled out with forceps in a treat­ment known as endoscopy was re­ported last year in Hawaii. 
He reported the conclusions of the Japanese doctors in an article published Friday in the Journal of the American Medical Association. 
Their patients all underwent en­doscopy. The worm, the Anisakis larvae, a parasite of marine mam­mals, attaches itself to the stomach lining. The patients also were prescribed antacids. 
If the worm is not removed, Fon­taine said, symptoms can occur similar to ulcers or inflammation of the stomach lining, but they eventu­ally would disappear. 

The Observer/Vic Guarino

Scraping away 
A man in a crane knocks away ice andsnowatop one of several buildings getting the scrape treat­Washington Hall yesterday. Washington Hall was ment this week because ofthe heavy snowfall. 
Sacred Heart Palm Sunday Mass to be broadcast nationally by NBC 
Junior Parents Weekend Itinerary 
Friday •Registration, 9 a.m.-8 p.m., LaFortune 
•Cabaret 
Show, 8 p.m., ACC 

•Cocktail 
Dance, 9 p.m., ACC 



Saturday •Registration, 9 a.m.-12 noon, LaFortune 
•Academic 
Workshops, 10 a.m.-12:30 p.m., various locations 

•Air 
Force ROTC Reception, 11 :30 a.m. -2:30p.m., ROTC Build­ing 

•Jazz 
Band, 1 p.m.-2:30p.m., Washington Hall 

•Shenanigans, 
3-4 p.m., Washington Hall 

•"Wake 
Up the Echoes," 1 p.m., 2:15 p.m., 3 p.m., Engineering Auditorium 

•Center 
for Social Concerns Open House, 1-4 p.m. 

•Tours 
ofSnite Museum, 2 p.m., 3 p.m. 

•Foreign 
Studies Reception, 2-4 p.m., CCE 

•Junior 
Class Mass, 5 p.m., ACC 

•President's 
Dinner, 7 p.m., ACC 

•Hall 
Parties, 10:30 p.m., each hall Sunday 

•Closing 
Brunch, 10:30 a.m., ACC 



ByTHERESA GUARINO 
AsststantNews Edttor 
NBC television cameras will invade Sacred Heart Church March 31 to carry the Palm Sunday liturgy there to a nationwide audience. 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh will celebrate the Mass, the first ever to be telecast from Sacred Heart. The television special, presented in cooperation with the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, will be an hour long. 
NBC broadcasts a religious ser­vice on Palm Sunday each year, alter­nating between Catholic and Protestant churches. Notre Dame was recommended to NBC by the conference ofbishops. 


Erasmus Books'ti ami 1027 E. Wayne T\Jes-Sun, noon· 6~.-~:r 1 block south or Jefferson & Eddy u..d &: oat of priat boob boaglllt. •old, ...rched  

you school. benefits and regular you're selected fora Physi-Best of all. you'll have Scholarship....:..trom1he Army, experience. A challenging job. 
Air Force -you'•$ commis-most of your medical school bil as a ReserveSecond Lieu-paid. Ensign. Yoy~~tve 45 Don't wait to get the facts. act1ve duty ea:;nyear while the coupon below now. There· . Handle div~rsepatient obligation.
L 

I"" --------·~~~~~----------------­
1 YESI Tell me how the~ Forces !-iealth Professions Scholarship Program 
• can help pay my ~1cal school expenses. I understand there is no obligation.
1------4----: Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box 1776.I Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102 9006 I Cheek up to three: 0 ARMY 0 NAVY 0 AIR FORCE I 
I P~... prlnt•lllntorm~~tion r,:l..rly •nd completely. 
I 

Name --.:;;------.:::---;;:;;;;;:-;=-------;-:.,.-----10Male0Female I
I Fwst •:: • Middle ln1bal Last 
I Address·-------"-'----------·Apl. fl---;:::;::::;:::::;::::;::::; I 
I C•ty ·;, Stat:<,________Zipl I I I I l1 ~ 
IPhone OIJITIJI I I Soc. Sec No.ITJJ OJI I I I II; I eouege_A•_••_c_-____""_"'_.._'__________E~~ OJ OJ OJ II ~ 
Mo Day Year ~ 
f--------1---...1 Gracluabon OJ OJ IJ."'J!~--+-----1 
-

~~~~ ~ ~ 

I ~~~ ;~~o~:n~'~"/o~~ ~~~~~=:.llr.fu~~~~;~;~~U~~egJg~) recruiting purposes only. The more complete it ts, the better we 
~ --------------~-------------­
Sacred Heart has been featured on several TV shows recently, but an entire Mass has not been televised there since the 50s, said Father Dan Jenky, rector of Sacred Heart, when Christmas midnight Mass or Holy Week services were shown locally. Production Supervisor Patricia Mauger, NBC's producer ofreligious programs, will do Sacred Heart Church's first nationwide telecast. 
Jenky cited three reasons for the 
selection of Sacred Heart this year. 
"There are two issues," he said. 
"First, Father Hesburgh, ofcourse, is 
a nationally recognized religious fig­
ure. Second, Notre Dameis the most 
famous Catholic university in the 
country and elicits immediate 
recognition. 
"Also, the quality of liturgy and music here is recognized. We have a lot of congregation participation and always produce some of the most gorgeous Holy Week Masses. We have some of the best music re­sources in the country.'' 
Jenky doesn't anticipate many structural problems with the plan­ning ofthe Mass. "NBC has been out once and seemed relieved when they first saw Sacred Heart. They ex­pect to bring a production crew of about 30 people," he said. 
Reserved seating will be neces­sary for part of the church. To en­courage student participation, some dorms have agreed to cancel their masses for the day. Jenky wants a "representative congregation" of parishoners, students and adminis­trators. He emphasized the need for a large student turnout of both men and women, saying, "some people across the country don't even realize ND is coed." 
Jenky acknowledged the Mass will require a lot of time and effort. "I said no the first time they asked," he said. "I wasn't sure we could pull it off since Holy Week is so big here. But this is an opportunity for Notre Dame to serve the American Church, so we said yes. NBC really wanted Notre Dame." 
'WomenS 
care 


Center 
PREGNANCY HELP CENTER 
Junior Parents Weekend 
OpenHousel 
Saturday,February,l6, 1=00 to 
3:00pm. Please joinus{ 
The Women's Care Center is located at 417 
N. St. Louis Blvd., the beautiful little blue house across the street from the Sc Joseph's Med Center emergency room entrance. Call 
us at 234-0363 for more information. 
1 
., 
The Observer Friday, February 15, 1985 -page 4 

Authorities believe they have killers 
Associated Press 
COLBY, Kan. -Suspects in a shoot­ing spree that left four people dead after a pollee chase may be linked to a seriesofarmed robberies In Kansas and seven other states, authorities said yesterday. 

A restaurant manager, two hostagcs taken at a grain elevator and one of the four suspects were killed Wednesday in the shootout that began with an apparent restau­rant robbery and ended in a gun­battle with pollee at a farmhouse, police said. 
Authorities believe the suspects may be linked to a two-week string of armed robberies and shootings in Kansas and seven other states, said Colby Police Chief Mark Spray. 
There were "strong indications" the suspects committed an un­known number of armed robberies In Michigan, Aorida, Georgia, Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas and Okla­homa before reaching Kansas, Spray said at a news conference. 
NBC protests Israeli shots at reporters 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-NBC ncws said yes­terday that Israeli soldiers fired a rifle: within int·hes of thc face of a network corrcspondent and also fired a shot into the car she and her crew were using at a checkpoint in southern Lebanon. 
Thc complaint was made in a let­tcr ot protest 10 Prime Minister Shimon Peres by Lawrence Gros­sman, president of NBC news. 

NBC said the incident occurred at the main Awali River Bridge near Sidon, the main crossing into Israeli­r occupied southern Lebanon. The r bridge: has been barricaded by the Is­raelis as their occupation force pulls 
r-
hack.
r 
The Ic:tter also said the soldiers.

r 
under command of a captain, seized
r 
r a tape: cassctte from the crcw. It did not idcntify the captain hut said he ,r was well-known to reporters. 
r 
~ 
r An Israeli military spokesman said r the army was investigating the inci­r dent. The Iettcr said the soldiers confrontcd corrcspondent Bonnie: Andcrson, and the captain demanded the tape: that t·amcraman ~ Gary Fairman was shooting at thc 
hridge. Grossman said thc officer "tried to

~ 
,. 
wrest thc cquipmcnt from the nt·ck of the recordist," Jonathan Callery.
~ 
'" 
r "An lsracli soldicr. in view of the: 
r captain, then placed an M-16 rifle to 
r the head of the camcraman and. when Miss Anderson told him to point the rifle to the sky. he fired it less than a foot away from hcr face and over the head of Mr. Fairman," Grossman said. 
He said that when the crew moved hack and tricd to set up, the soldicrs fired from a distance: and "one ofthcir hullcts struck our car." 
Correction 
Because: of a reporting error. the goal of the: charity hall to henefit Ethiopia was incorrectly stated. The correct total should be Sl 'i,OOO. 

estaurant 
Best inAged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 

for reservations Lunch ll:OOa.m. to 2:30p.m. Dinner 5:00p.m. 
Closed "'"""'.u" 

Friday, Saturday, Sunday 301..office cream for students EXTENDED HOURS•••TILL 1:30 
1723 South Bend Avenue (next to Turtle Creek) 
• • Junior Parents Weekend • • Junior Parents Weekend • •  
JUNIORS JPW REGISTRATION In LaFortune S. Alcove Also at the Cocktail Dance Thursday 6-10 pm Please Bring Your J.D. Friday 9am ­8 pm You OR Your Parents Saturday 9 -noon can Register  
• ·Junior Parents Weekend • • Junior Parents Weekend • •  


The Observer Friday, February 15, 1985 -page 5 
•
e •
S.A.B. Campus Entertainment • 
• presents... e 
:Shopping, : : Dinner& !! Dancing: : in Chicago ! 
: ******************' : 
: $15.00 : 
• 
t****************** • : Saturday, Feb. 23 : : Limited space -Tickets on : 

• 
sale at the Record Store e


•~.....................•. 

DOMINO'S PIZZA EATING CONTEST 
WHEN: Halftime of NO Women's B-ball games 
Championship: Sun., Feb. 17, 2pm. 
N.D. vs. Detroit 
DORM COMPETITION 
Morrissey vs. Grace GIVEAWAYS: Hats, cups, and pizza coupons 
PRIZES: Season pizza pass for winning team [Free pizza every week 11 
Winning dorm also gets a free pizza party courtesy of DOMINO'S PIZZA !! 
Decision to accept women rabbis triggers threats by some opponents 
Associated Press admitting women into its rabbinical America, believes that Jewish law 
program last year. One of them -should be constantly reinterpreted 
NEW YORK Conservative Amy Eilberg, 30, of Bloomington, by its rabbis -a middle road between Judaism yesterday formally an­Ind. -will graduate in May, and will Orthodoxy, which has a more static nounced its decision to accept wo­be the first woman to don a Conser­view of the law, and Reform, which men rabbis, triggering threats by vative rabbi's robes. uses the law as a guide. opponents to disregard marriages, Eilberg said she felt "very excited Opponents of the ordination of divorces or religious conversions and very happy and very proud" women have argued that scriptures performed by women. when she learned of the assembly's rule out such a move, noting restric­
"There are going to be two kinds decision. tions on women's roles as witnesses I 
,
of Conservative rabbis," said Rabbi "As of today, Jewish women need and elsewhere. David Novak, head of the Union of never again feel that their gender is a But Gerson Cohen, seminary , 
,
Traditional Conservative Judaism, barrier to their full participation in chancellor, said the decision reflects 
,
which opposed the move. "Some Jewish life," she said. both religious considerations and 
will accept women rabbis, some will Judaism's continuing adaptation to 
1
not." The decision came after years of changing times. 
1
The Rabbinical Assembly, the heated dt:bate, though the Reform Conservative movement's ruling and Reconstructionist brancht·s of Rabbi Alexander Shapiro, assem­body, on Wednesday voted 636 to Judaism started ordaining women as bly president, said the vote 267 in favor of an amendment that rabbis more than ten years ago, and recognizes "that all of us, both men gives automatic standing to any or­now have more than 80 women rab­and women, are created in God's dained graduate of the Jewish bis. image and that the potential for spir­Theological Seminary. Conservative Judaism, which itual greatness exists in all human 
The Manhattan seminary started claims 1.5 million members in North beings." 
Suspects held in crossbow murder 
..., 
Associated Press Witte's mother-in-law, Elaine Witte, being excluded from the San Diego ... 
ofTrail Creek, Ind. case. 
SAN DIEGO -A mother and son Elaine Witte was slain in January Hilma Witte and her son, John, charged in the crossbow killing ofan 1984, and her dismembered body were arrested Nov. 7 when they al­Indiana woman are on trial in San stored in a freezer before it was legedly attempted to cash one ofthe Diego, where they are accused of disposed of later in the year, accor­victim's checks at a bank in subur­forging and cashing the victim's So­ding to Trail Creek police. ban Chula Vista, Halpern said in his cial Security checks. opening statement earlier this week. 
Hilma Witte, 36, and her son, Eric, Hilma Witte, Eric Witte and a fam­Eric Witte was apprehended later 19, are charged with forgery, ily friend, Douglas Menkel, 22, are that same day at his duty station at presenting forged checks to charged with being accessories to the Naval Hospital in San Diego. Offi­, federally insured banks, and conspir­murder in the Indiana case. Another cials said Menke! had been arrested , acy. son ofHilma Witte,John Witte, 15, is in November as an alleged Navy , 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Phillip Hal­charged with murder, Indiana aut­deserter. pern said the case involves four horities said. John Witte is reported in the cus­S<>_cial Security checks issued to Any mention ofthe murder case is tody ofjuvenile authorities. 


1 
1 1
The IRS offers group tax return 
1 ~ 
preparation, called Outreach, In 
local communities during normal 
working hours, after hours. or on 
weekends at various community 
locations such as schools. 
libraries. or other public or 
business locations where 
volunteer program services are not 
available. Call your local IRS office 
for more Information about 
Exciting and Challenging Career Opportunities 
Master of Business Administration 
A small. highly selective MBA program has 
• management trainee with an been designed by The Ohio State University international assignment. Chase 
to provide professional management Manhattan Bank education to students with nonbusiness 
• assistant product manager. Pillsbury 
academic backgrounds. This two-year full-time • financial analyst. Hewlett Packard program 
• inventory control manager. IBM CorporC'tion
• 
facilitates a high level of student and 

• account executive. Merrill Lynchfaculty-student interaction 
• consultant. Price Ware. house 

• 
has no prerequisite cour~e work 

• management tra1nee · vith an international 

• 
is especially attractive tc students with 


assignment. Procter and Gamble liberal arts. scientific. and other 
For a brochure describing this program and nonbusiness backgrounds 
application information. please 
• is built upon a tightly integrated study of contact: foundation management tools and concepts Director, MBA Programs 
• offers the opportunity to concentrate in one The Ohio State University or two management fields through 112 Hagerty Hall elective course work 1175 College Road 
• 1s offered by one of the top 25 schools of Columbus,. OH 43210-1399 management 1n the country and is 614-422-8511 accredited by the American Assembly of Coliegiate Schools of Business 
Last year's graduates were very successful in finding career opportunities. Examples of positions they selected include the following: 
OOUJ

• assistant to the chief executive officer. Midland Mutual Life 
The Ohio State University
• f1eld marketing manager. F~rd Motor Company 
Accent 
Stuffed Animals 
Shelli Canfield 
features staff writer 
E 
ITrnme has a soft spot for a "'It friend who 11l'\'l'r talks hal·k or n>mplains. 

Stulkd animals make grt·at fril·nd,_ l'ratKl'S de Freitas. a Far­In ll.dl junim. says slw would go na11 1f anything happened to "-i111 her stulkd kittl·n. \X hen siH· was littk. she lt-ft Kitty at a hold on a family vacation and insisted that ht·r father bat·ktrac:k two hours to retrkn· her travding n•mpanion. 
Kitty has hn·n thruugh a lot. 

r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
f 
Iter mother keeps mt·nding it by 
Sl'wing on new n•n-ring. The 
result is that Kitty gets larger as timl· passt·s. 
Although Kitty is her favorite. she has shdn·s full ofstufft:d animals at homt·. She also has teddy-h..:ar slippc:rs and tc:ddy­hear earmuffs. 
"\Xhy not'" she says. "Stufkd animals bring out tht· kid in us 
Then: is only one thing that 
Ideal collegiate companions 
could replan· "-ill'. '-ref!.<' said .1 
man. 

Cecilia Smith. anot h.-r I;1rln IIall junior. kt-eps two stulk J animals in her room. 
Ont· is a huge yellow dog named Sunshine. Smith got Sun­shint· from her godfather who was a missionary. She: has muc:h ad­miration for him and ~ays that makes Sunshine mort· special. Sunshine is someone who she could cry to she: says. 
lkr loyalty to sunshine has not always been so great. Once sill' wanted a little spare cash. so she sold him to lu·r little brother. who procn·ded to ahuse him. A )Tar ago. Smith rescued Sunshine from her brother. Although worn and permanently dirty. Smith still loves her stuffed dog. 
Her other stuffed companion is Alexander the Grapt·. who she 
sis extremdy ugly. A sick 

green color, with dangling 
purple legs, Alexander 

sports autographs -one ofa 
grandfather who passed 
away, and one of her little 
sister who signed him 

when she was first learn­
ing to write. 

Not all animals are asso­
ciated with happy 
childhood memories. 

One girl. who wishes to remain ;monymous so as not to jeopardiZl· an already unsteady rdationship. tells about a bunny she got last )Tar. thl· day she had a date for a formal dann·. 
The date of the dance was 

Friday the I5th. It was till" worst dann· of her life. she said. The bunny reminds her of her date. who she still sees. \X hen siH· is on good ll-rms with this him. the bunny gets tn·ated well. hut when she is not -well. 
A quint of Lyons sophomores han· all kinds of storks about their ;mimal huddks. Aimee Storin has a favoritt· animal n;tmed "Baby". a brown ht·ar with bl;~c:k eyes. who's tail has fallen offfour times. She has had Baby sinc:c she was two months old. hut Baby loob good for his agl·. Baby survi\'t·d thl· abuse of four of Sturin's younger hrotht·rs. 
Somebody tril-d to killnap Baby. hut Sturin's hoyfril-nd l·aught the ahdunor and made him put Baby hack. "lie's just the right squishi-
Sharon Em mite and her stuffed 

bear, S.P.L.A., namedfor herfour roomates in Lyons Hall. 
m·ss... Sturin said of Baby. "lie's 
soft -he has no hard parts."' 
Sonwtimes. sc:ary things happen 

in the lives ofstu!kd anim;tls. 
Sharon I'm mite. anotlwr roomate. 
tdls about the kidnap of their 
hears. c:ompkte with ransom 
notes. Especially traumatic: was 
the abduction ofS.I'.I..A.. hn hear. 
(S.l'.I..A. arc: the lirst initials oflwr 
ruommatl·s. ) Apparently. S. 1'. LA. 
was kidnappnl h) a group of guys 
daiming to he nu·mhns of the 
Bear l.ihnation Army ( Bl.A ). 
S.P.LA. was hamlcuflt.·d and 

t·hairu·d to a pipe. Sharon n·n·in·d 
phomTalls from thl· HI.A. with the 
nwssage "Tiw hear lives1" l:mmite 
received a patch offur in the mail. 
with tran·s of red on it that \H·n· 
supposed to look like blood. She 
also gol messages with cut-oul 
Ill'\\ spapn ll'l!l'fs reading 
"(;orillas Allack -Bears Are \'ic­
tims'" She did get hn bear hack. 
Although they are nothing morl· than doth and fur and stutllng they ctn he very real. Owm-rs talk to t-hem. hold tl;l·m. give them names and get upsl'l when some­one is nu·an to them. Fmmite insists that her hears talk to her­S.I'.LA. coughs a littk when you sqUl'l'l.l' him. she says. 
She has anotlwr lwar nan1l·d 

Shnman. An old hoy friend gan· 
him !D her and said. "Now dDn·l 
squtT.re till' Sherman... 
During ( lust mas vacuion 

Fmmit<· !old a friend that while 
hn bears \\l'fe in the rtH•m hy 
tlwmsdn·s thq partied. "or 
maybe the~ read ... she says. Sill' 
t·alled long distann· from Tex;~s to 
prove it. "They didn't answer. 
Maybe thq ·rl· afraid of double 
rings. 
Not many men at Notre Dame have or admit owning. any stu!ll-d animals. Oru· guy aomilteo to having a stull'ed pl'l. IIis girlfriend gave him a yellow rahhit. "I hold it in my arms and dream of her" he said. 
The ow rwrs and friends l!f stulkd animals an· surl· that they make good companion.,_ The) cannot run away and listen to everything that is said to them. Their loyalty is unquestionable 
Next time when then· st'l'ms to he no onl· in till' world to ask to an SYR. try a stuffed animal -thq ,-annot say no. 
-

Friday, February 15, 1985-page 6-7 
JPW is an opportunity for families to get closer 
be like a pep rally at which talk is to say and do. As one acquainted things we said to each other in the cheap and there is a lot of rah-rah, with the hard knocks ofparenting, I last year ofhis life. or it can be a true liturgy offering wish to encourage the weekend as a Every day with one's parents the participants the grace to be on holy time, like the hour spent in should be lived as though there terms ofpeace with one another. church when you receive the Euc­would be no tomorrow. Something 
Forty years ago, I was a student harist. The outward signs should 
very deep should be going on at all on uncertain terms with his father. 
symbolize the underlying grace, so this weekend's events. I wish I had My father was afraid I was going to that a show-and-tell weekend lies 
no regrets. As a spiritual father with rve spent nearly all ofthe 3I years friends were here to celebrate the ruin my life, and that would have open to eternity and God. Ifthe spiritual children I talk to Notre ~ince my ordination in school­winter weekend with their broken his heart. He died while we grace is already there, hold on to it. Dame students. I don't want anyth­related jobs, as a techer, rector, or daughter who was a junior, the next eyed each other as strangers. In the Ifit is not there, pray for it to come. ing unpleasant going on between us chaplain. to the youngest child ofa family of glow ofa Notre Dame weekend, we My father died before I finished that I'll have regrets about later. It 11sed to be that the parents of eight. I know their story, because I might have been inspired to break my freshman year. I wish that as a the ~tudents I dealt with were older have lived so much ofit with them, down the walls. .teenager I had shown him a I've never met a Notre Dame than I. Then I became middle-aged, as for example, when Bob was I wish my father and I could have landmark time he could remember student I didn't care about and love. 
and found I was about the same age twice hospitalized with heart at­laid down the ground rules for an me by. In his final illness, when I Ifthere's a bottom line to any ofour as many of the parents I met. Now, tacks. armistice. It would have been was far away, he worried about me. quarrels, I would like it to be that at 59, I'm 10 or more years older merciful for each ofus to realize Hearing ofhis worry meant more to I'm sorry for not being a better 
than a large number ofthe parents I remember the December Bob that the other was doing the best he me than any ofthe ill-considered priest. ofcurrent Domers. tried to get by without an overcoat, could. The first law oflove is to 
The children ofboys I taught in because there were eight children accept other people as they are, The Near Side Mark Weimholt high school the first year I was he was helping through school. His warts and all. That's the way it ordained are now here, and I have kids, realizing that their old man seems to me as a priest; that's what to smile to see them. I wish I had was making do with a raincoat St. Paul means, I think, when he says known as much when I taught their rather than spend money on him­that love is patient. You have to be fathers as I do now. self, bought him a new overcoat for patient with a person ifyou want 
As an older member ofa genera­Christmas. him to trust you. When his trust is tion that has kids in college, I get The heros and heroines of my great enough, he may accept your excited overJunior Parents generation were not necessarily the help. Anger from the family doesn't Weekend because I identify so ones ordained for the altar. The save a parent who drinks. Harshness strongly with our visitors. As far as I stars made themselves reponsible doesn't bring home the children can see being a priest, is a form of before God for young lives, with who have left the reservation. parenting, and parenting has many ways ofcaring that set an example Whether you're a parent being of the duties ofthe prie'>thood to IlK professional shepherds ofthe priest-like, or a priest needing to 
Church. speak as a father, you've got to let 
The priest, according to the Behind every smile ofthe juniors the love show through. You don't Catholic tradition, is appointed to and their parents, there are stories, have to win any ofthe arguments, offer sacrifices on behalfof the some of which would bring tears to or get in the last word. The vic­people ofGod entrusted to his the eye. Couples do not marry and tories ofwit, logic or one­pastoral care. Parents offer daily raise families without there being upmanship aren't worth a pitcher of sacrifices as the unchanging ritual struggles and misunderstandings spit ifyou come offloveless. of their lifetimes, on behalfof which cause pain. What will the children gathered like a precious parents and students think about Students shouldn't have to grow flock under the family roof. when the speeches are made this up and have families of their own to 
Some would say the heads of Saturday night? figure out finally how much their families are first among the truly The official rhetoric uses the parents loved them. Parents empowered priests. That is why at language descriptive ofthe love, shouldn't have to wait until they're the time of the Exodus, the pride, and gratitude which young alone and broke, heading for the old patriarch, or elder, had the duty to men and women are offering to be folks' home, to feel their children's offer the spring lamb in sacrifice, for perfect, there are tensions between arms around them in worship. That, the blood of the covenant with members of the two generations I guess, is whyJunior Parent which to sign the doorpost, so that that need to be forgiven, and weekends are held. the angel ofdeath would not touch healing that is required after the Nobody needs me to write them the house. battles that once damaged tender­a philosophy for the weekend. 
Last year, two of my dearest ness and mutual respect. AJPW can Everybody knows the right things 



•Plenty 
of romance and adventure are in store for those who make it over to the Engineering Auditorium this weekend where the SAB will present "Romancing the Stone." Michael Douglas stars with Kathleen Turner in this story ofa romance novelist who happens to stumble into some real-life love and excitement. Showings will be tonight and tomorrow night at 7, 9: I 5, and 11:30. Admission will be Sl."iO. 

•Tonight, 
the Friday Night Film Series will present the I984 film "The Brother from another Planet." Partly a fable on the immigrant experience, partly the portrait ofour culture from an alien experience, this film tells the story ofa black who crash lands on Ellis Island and makes his way to Harlem. Showings are at 


7:30 and 9:30 tonight in the Annenburg Auditorium. Tickets are S2.50. 

Art 
•A new exhibit, Glenn Zweygardt: Steel and Stone Sculpture will open Sunday with a reception in honor of Zweygardt from 2 to 4. Zweygardt teaches sculpture and is deparment chairman at New York State College ofCeramics at Alfred Uni­versity. His monumental steel and stone 
sculpture has been featured in numerous 
one-man shows, as well as in private and 
public collections in the States. 
The traveling exhibit "Autochromes: Color Photography Comes ofAge" which is organized by the Ubrary of Congress, continues this weekend at the Snite Museum. The exhibition presents some of the earliest color photographic images made, dating from a time when most people think color photography did not exist. In a nostalgic, almost impres­sionistic fashion, they capture a world now lost. 
Gallery hours at the Snite are I 0 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday thru Friday, I p.m. to 4 
p.m. 
Saturday thru Sunday, and 4 p.m. to 8 

p.m. 
Thursday evenings. 



The Saint Mary's Art Department Faculty Exhibition continues this weekend at the Moreau Galleries at Saint Mary's. Gallery hours are Monday to Friday from 9:30 to noon and I to 3 p.m., and Sunday from I to 3 p.m. 
Theater 
•The 
Chicago City Ballet will be per­forming this evening at 8 p.m. in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Call 284­4626 for tickets. 

•The 
Broadway musical hit "Ain't Mis­behavin' "will be gracing Saint Mary's campus this weekend. Set in a Harlem nightclub ofthe I930s and '40s, the play celebrates the music, personality and high-living style ofone of that era's most beloved jazzmen and clowns, Thomas "Fats" Waller. The Tony award-winning musical will be presented at 8 p.m. on Sunday in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets are available for $5 and SI 0, call 284-4626. 


rMusic 



•The 
Notre Dame Music Department will present Darlene Catello in a harpsichord recital tomorrow at 3 p.m. in the Annen­burg Auditorium ofthe Snite Museum. Catello's performance will include works by Bach, Byrd, Bohm, and Rameau. All are invited to attend. 

•William 
Cerny will perform in a faculty plano recital on Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. The program will include works of Bach, Shu mann, Hin­demith and Ravel. The performance is open to the public without charge. 

•In 
commemoration ofthe I 75th anniver­sary ofthe birth ofFrederic Chopin, The Chopin Fine Arts Club ofSouth Bend will present pianist Dr. Ejnar Krantz in an all-Chopin recital this Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's. Admission will be free. 


Mass 
The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father David Schlaver at 5:I5 p.m. 
(Saturday night vigil). Father Francis Cafarelli at 9 a.m. Father Peter Rocca at I 0:30.a.m. Father Stephen Gibson at I2:I5 p.m. 
~............------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------~----~---I 
-
The Observer Friday, February 15, 198S -oaee R 
Classifieds 
LOST: ONE BROWN FOZZY THE BEAR LOST: NEED 2 GA's for BYU!! Will pay bucks' CHILE ... CHILE ... CHILE, HOI A message to a// members of CampusWATCH SANS WRISTBAND. NO REAL One ski mask and a pair of gloves Call John 1 567 
NOTICES Welt, try that again Crusade for Cthulu: Cthulu is about as
MONETARY VALUE BUT I AM WILLING lost in the A.C.C. south dome monday TACO...TACO... TACO, 5-Tl powerful as a soggy baloney sandw1ch.
TO PAY TO SEE M~ UTILE FOZZY'S night HELP! Family coming to vtstt! Stster Turn to Jesus Christ, the source of all
FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A SMILING FACE AGAIN. THANKS. should have been near tile nsers setup would die to see Rivers play' Need lix for Brought to you by the fans of Patricia power. Believe it or not. Jesus still lovesBELLY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEK' 272-X4173 there. BYU game' Call Gretchen at 1270. 
Quintana. Next lime you chomp on a you more than ever! Repent! Amen. 
1658 If found please call2339. 
Nachos Bell Grande. think of Patricia. 
LOST: Man's Timex watch outside of an Need 2 G.A. Marquene tickets. Call Dan EXPERT TYPING 277-6534 AFTER 5:30 ACC raquetball court Monday nite, Feb 4 2360 
Th1s marks the begmn•ng of ALEX CANO 

I'm not sentimental but! m•ss the hnle guy. If you stole my Accounting book from E FORGt:T FLORIDA!! SKI ASPEN. 
week He wtll be acceptmg hugs. ktsses 

Contact David at x4358. line in the North D1ning Hall, you'd better PLEASE HELP! Need 4 or 5 BYU GAs. COLORADO THIS SPRING BREAK. 
and smtles all week TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 return it to the Lost and Found •n the Ad Will Pay BIG BUCKS. Woody 1 188 AND GET A TAN TOO. $3971NCLUDES building before I find you. Otherw•se. I w1ll TRANSPORTATION, 7 NIGHTS TYPING AVAILABLE hunt you to the end of the earth and Need 2 GA's for MARQUETTE call ROSS LODGING, AND A 6 DAY LIFT PASS TO 
MOM & DAD: Thanks for com1ng out for 

287-4082 LOST: ONE GOLD AND PEARL ALL FOUR OF ASPENS MOUNTAINS
1897 
JPW. I Love You II SteveEARING. FRIDAY NIGHT. COULD BE IF INTERESTED CALL 3630 OR 3573. ANYWHERE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 

Need 5 GA or Student lix lor BYU game"' Put some sptce 1n your Saturday wtth GOVERNMENT JOBS. $15,000 284-5158. BORN TO SWING FROM CHAN­
CaiiSMC5323 WVFI and Saturday DJ·s L•sten lor T1m $50,000/yr. possible. All occupations. DELIERS!!! DON SEYMOUR AND PAT 
Lyons, Ken MacManus. and Ed Swam on

FOR RENT
Call 805-687-6000 Ext R-9634 lor infor­FOUND: APAIR OF WHITE MITIENS IN MURPHY THEONLYDJS THAT MAT­WVFI! Beat the South Bend blues w•th mation. THE OBSERVER SMC DAY OFFICE TER! WHAT MORE CAN YOU ASK WVFI!
CAN CLAIM M-F 12:30-3 PM. FOR? HIRE THE ONLY DJS THAT MAT­
PRO-TYPE Computenzed typing se1V1ce Semi-furnished home, good neighbor­TER! FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY OR SYR 277-5833 hood 255-3684/288-0955. CALL DON AT35730R PAT AT 3318 OR 3317. THANK YOU 
PERSONALS 
CAMPUS CRUSADE FOR PLS: LOST:One BURGANDY ASCENTE 
Keith. For those who aren·t sure what they want 1acket in LaFortune. If you took 11. acci­You were right, it wasn., Mozart, but 11 ATIENTION ALL OFF-CAMPUSITES to do wtth their lives but have a vague tdea EXPERT TYPING 277-6534 AFTER 5:30 
WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING dently or otherwise. please return it. If was the nicest V-day music I've heard in a OUR MASS IS SCHEDULED FOR SUN , that there ts some Bemg m the cosmos 
you're not willing to give up the jacket. WANTED while· even better than the Femmes! whose intelligence far surpasses ours.
272-8827 FEB. 17 AT CAMPUS VIEW,
please return the IDs. I've been look•ng 
and feel that it should have meamngful forward to this coming weekend for gomg Are Notre Dame students unreformable? 
BLDG.54655, APT 202 COME AND 
term papers written about•! on 21 years. and it just wouldn't be the
Typ1ng/Word Processmg-Term Papers. BRING YOUR HOUSEMATES' FOR 
Resumes. etc. Edit1ng available Call Established band needs a bass player. INFO. CALL RACE THOMAN AT 272­
same without my license. Thanks Patricta 
Cthulhu Saves! X2910
Andrea -~ 1 1 pm 263-3880 Call Matt 2937 or Paul 1578. 0734. 
GILA Retreat-Feb. 22-24. All •nterested 

please sign up at the CSC by Fnday. Feb MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 1. Twinkles? GA'S FOR THE BYU GAME IF YOU 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL Whose 21at birthday Is Sunday? IF YOU GOT IT, I NEED IT II I NEED 4 15. It Will be led by Mlflam Therese Mac­Gillis. OP. Cost: $7 50 
2. Pudaduh? CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN DISTRESSHELP!I! I lost my Uncle's watch. It was a 
FOR SALE 

3. Dol? PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT 3714 'George Backhaus on the back. Theband Stiver Bulova Acutron With the mscriptton 4. Peabody? 
was broken off on l~e right s•de of the 5. Pany-Pat? SUMMER PROGRAMS-MAY 22-JUNE I am what I am and !hats all that
LOST/FOUND 

watch lace Please call Paul at 3300 or 5 BEDROOM HOUSE. FULLY FUR­6. Binky? 21, LONDON (Ireland, Scot, Paris) and am!!l!!!!!l!!!l!!!!!!!!!!!!! come up to 302 Keenan. Definate NISHED. CLEAN AND IN NICE NEIGH­7. Ooga Booka Nooga? June 16-July 15 ROME (Paria. Ger. Reward$$$ offered. BORHOOD GOOD INVESTMENT. 8. Snookles? SWitz, Italy) Organizational meeting LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETIER JACKET IS $24,000 288-3109 EVENINGS 9. Patricia Quintana? Mon. : Feb. 18 349 Madefeva (7:00 ­
SOPHOMORES If you are interested 1n 

STILL AT LARGE REWARD FOR ANY Found:a SMC school ring at Jumor For­10. All of the above? London -8:00 Rome.) For info Call bamg a SOPHOMORE CLASS 
INFORMATION LEADING TO THE AR­Prof. A. R. Bleck 284-4460 or 272-3726.
mal call Bill x3267 PHOTOGRAPHER please call Ellen at 
REST AND CONVICTION OF ITS CAP­Send answers and birthday kisses to 228
APPLE lie Software: Wordprocess•ng 2723 
TORS. PLEASE CALL J.A REID AT P.W. (x2910) First 10 correct answers win I PITY THE FOOLS THAT VOTED FOR 
Package $80(negoliable): call4364 
277-7581 IF YOU HAVE ANY KNOWL­Taco Bell keychains and amputated parts HEALYII EDGE OF ITS WHEREABOUTS LOST: black onyx ring and men·s razor of Oscar and Mr. Tickle. out of yellow VW rabbit parked in lot east THANKS JOANIE AND PAT FOR NEED YOUR CAR SHOVELED OUT? LOST: A pair of black Afls women's size of stadium: call239-8423 w1th info. SENIOR CLASS SKI TRIP selling my $25 PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234-GIVING US A CHOICE. IT TOOK A LOT CALL MARK 1 597 
small gloves in rm. 208 O'Shag. I know reseNalion..call PETE AT 4259. CALL 0363. 24 hour holline/free pregnancy test OF COURAGE TO STICK IT OUT. YOU somebody has them. If found. please call LOST-maroon scarf in Cushing Tues. AFTER 12AM. available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER ARE 1 WITH US! KELLY & KELLY PROGRESSIVE MUSIC CLUB T­Stephame at 3738, or return them to 244 2/5. If found, call Liz 1992. SHIRTS: II you ordered one. pick II up
···········•••·••··························· 
Badin. Thanks. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, Need ride to CHICAGO Northwest sub­SUNDAY, 3-4 p.m. In 341 Keenan. CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., urbs. Call Fran 2596. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. JOHN ROMNEY YOU WENCH 1 
FOUND: ONE LOOSE CAR KEY, HELP LOST I lost my keys at the brar or Need ride to NORTHWESl ERN or FRIDAY, 2/8, NORTH QUAD. JOHN somewhere behind P W. My roommates nearby area. Weekend of Feb 15-17 Call WORLD RELIGION/CATHOLIC 2483. dont hke me and keep locking me oul. My BEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE. Miriam 4174. DIALOGUE Score after first mmng 
rector her keys to my car so now I can 'I DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING C.opteln Extenalon-1
TICKETS

lost: pa1r of gloves and hat left on bus after drive. (H. V.day-A.G.D.) iF YOU SEE A BREAK '85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­IRISH BOXER SHORTS" Chicago Trip please bflng to Dr Hofman SET OF KEYS for room 522 on a nng with DENTS. CALL 239-5136 OR STOP BY $5/pa~r a blue plastiC hook call LOU at4 1 1 0-help call Liz at 2761 
SENIOR CLASS OFFICE. 1.5 IF YOU GOT IT, I NEED IT .II I NEED LAFORTUNE, MON-FRI. 6-9pm. 423 Lyons LOST: pair of black gloves on Sunday LOST: A lhm green and black plaid wool FOUR (4) GA'S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF 
evening In Rock They are g1fts from scarf. Last seen at MTV video dance YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN Galin? Gel over? Get through? NEED AN EXTENSION? CALL CAP­somebody very dear. Please call 1167 or around 1:00AM. DISTRESS PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT Getout1 I have •·come on down. now where do TAIN EXTENSION TODA Y1 !..ave them in Rock If you have It please call John at 1 725. 3714. you want me to go? -T~ny A 

TYPIN.G 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 

CaD Chris at: 
234-8997 

You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 

PLAYth• 

7-ELEVEN EiAME! 
Durinljl ND Wam•n'a Baak•tball Gam•• 
n•xtt;~am•: 
Sun.,F•b.17 va. D•trait Zpm 

YDU CAN BE A WINNER. .JUST BY SHDWINEi UP!! 
If th• lri•h ar• ah•ad af th•ir 
(219) 674..6993 appan•nt by •ith•r ••v•n ar OR CALL YOUR 
TRAVEL AGENT
•l•v•n paint• at halfl;im• ar at th• •nd af th• 'il•m•. yau q•t a c:aupan far a ... 
FREE BICi CiULP 
Offer .,..adat parl:lclpatlncJ local 7-•orv-lltarell 
..... 

Clip and save this ad for easy travel planning! Travel United Limo to l1 from Chicago's O'Hare 
LEAVE LEAVE NOTRE MICHIANA 
Let':

DAME REGIONAL BUS AIRPORT 
ARRIVE SHELTER SOUTH BENO 
O'HARE 

4:20 a m 4.40 a m 
6.00 am 6·20 am. 640 am 
8:00 a m 8:20a.m 8 40 am 
10 00 am 

10.20 a m 10 40 a.m 
12:00 p m 

12:20 p m 12 40 p m 
2·00 p m 2 20 p.m 2·40 p.m 
4 00 p m 4 20 p m. 4.40 p.m 
6:00pm 6·20 p.m 6:40pm 
8:00pm. 

8:20 p m 8.40 p.m 
10:00 p m 


ARRIVE ARRIVE MICHIANA NOTRE REGIONAL DAME 
LEAVE 
AIRPORT BUS O'HARE 
SOUTH BENO SHELTER 
8·30 a m 11·50 a.m 12:05 p m 
10:30 am 
1·50 p m 2 05 p m 12'30 p m 
3:50pm 4 05 p.m 2 30 p m 
5:50pm 6 05 p m 4 30 p.m 
7:50pm 8·05 p m 6 30 p m 
9:50pm 10 05 p m 8 30 p m 
11:50p m t2·05a m 10·30 p m 
1.50 a.m 2·05 am 12·30 am 
3:50am 4 05 a.m 
SOUTH BENO ARRIVALS & DEPARTURES ON SOUTH 8ENO TIME. EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 28. 1984 
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES 
fhe Observer Friday, February 15, 1985 -page 9 
Central Collegiate Championships 
Pearcy leads track team into meet 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
This weekend will be one of the 
most challenging of the year for the 
Notre Dame track team. The Irish 
travel to Ann Arbor, Mich. for the 
Central Collegiate Championships, 
where they will face some stiff com­
petition. 
Head coach Joe Piane said he is 
well aware of the challenges that 
await. Strong teams from schools 
such as Illinois, Michigan, Eastern 
Michigan, Wisconsin and Iowa will 
be there. 
"This meet is phenomenal," Piane 
said. "Fifty percent of the winners 
will probably qualify for the NCAA's. 
It is really competive. 
One of the runners Piane will be 
depending on is junior Van Pearcy. 
Pearcy is having a great season and 
hopes to continue his success this _weekend in the 600-meters. 
Pearcy, who hails from Andrews, Tex., came to Notre Dame as both a track and football scholarship ath­lete. He said he had hoped to com­pete in both without any complications, but problems did arise. 
"I had some difficulties," explains Pearcy. "They (the Irish football coaches) were not too happy when I missed spring practice because of the outdoor track season. They felt that my receiving skills were not up to par because of the missed practice and that my playing time would be extremely limited." 
Pearcy was faced with what he calls a very difficult decision. 
"I never thought I would quit football when I first came here," he said. However, he adds, "I felt that it was better for my own self to con­centrate on track and field." 
SObering ~ce~, 
cansavea11~.~~~ 1 Think Before You Drink ~"' 
Before You Drive .. 
Coach Gerry Faust's loss was coach Piane's gain. 
"This year we'll see," says Piane. "He never had a fall season before because of football. I've never seen him fitter." 
Pearcy said he is pleased with his season so far but he knows he has room for improvement. This weekend should provide a good test for him. 
"I'm going in with the idea that I'm one of the top runners and I'll just give it my best shot," he says. 
Does Pearcy ever regret leaving football for track? No, he says. "Ifanything, I wish I had done it a little earlier," he admits. 
The middle-distance runner says he enjoys not only the competition but also the comraderie among run­ners. 
"It's an individual event but it's a societal type of sport," explains Pearcy. "Everyone has their own style, but you also become very close to your teammates and even intermix with your opponents." 
Piane said he sure is glad that Pearcy decided to spend t.is time and effort on track instead of foot­ball. He can count on the 6-1 Pearcy as the Irish hope to fare well this weekend in Michigan. 

Righttoyourdoor. 
(Within a two-mile radius.) 
I 


Call us anytime after 5 p.m., order a medium or large pizza piled high with any combination of your favorite toppings, sit back and relax. We'll be right over. Just think, hot, thick and delicious Godfather's Pizza, loaded with mountains of toppings and smothered with a thick layer of cheese. Mmmmmmm .... Are you hungry? Call Godfather's Pizza now. We'll be right over. 
277-5880 

52929 U.S. 31 North 
Delivery available only at South Bend location. 

The Observer /Pete laches 

Notre Dame will be counting on strong performances from players such as sophomore Donald Royal as they take on the Duke Blue Devils tomorrow. See the story on the back page for more on the game in the Meadowlands. 
TUGO'WAR CONTEST!! 
Halftime of NO Women's Basketball Games 
LEE JEANS will be sponsoring a Tug 0' War contest during the last four Notre Dame Women's basketball games of the season (Feb 20-March 6) Participants can win great prizes -including an entire outfit, courtesy of Lee Jeans. Audience giveaways too !! 
You can enter a team to represent your dorm just by filling our the application form below. Team weight restrictions are 700 pounds for women and 1,000 for men. Male and female dorms will be teams together. SEND IN YOUR APPLICATION TODAY. Teams will be announced early next week. 
APPLICATION FORM 1 Yes, I'd like to enter a team in the Lee I· Jeans Tug 0' War contest. I 
My dorm is_____________----~ Name Phone_____--f 
Send to: Jim Ryan Sports promotions Director Dept. of Athletics Athletic and Convocation Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 


The Observer 

Team tries to extend unbeaten streak 
Fencers brave snow for Cleveland 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame fencing team will once again battle the snow and the arctic conditions of the scenic Midwest as it travels to Cleveland, Ohio, where it will face Case West­ern Reserve, Miami (Ohio) and Al­legheny in three dual meets. 
The last time that the weather threatened the fate of the Irish, they were snowed-in and were unable to participate in an eight-team meet in Columbus, Ohio, onJanuary 26. This time, however, Irish head coach Mike DeCicco can only hope for the best as his team will be traveling to a heavily hit area. 
"I hope we're leaving (today~" said DeCicco. "We'll just keep our fingers crossed until we get off." 
When the Irish get to Cleveland State, host of the semi-tournment, the I '5-0 men's squad will be facing three schools to whom they never 
Detroit 
continuedfrom page 12 

teams, 76-62, in Detroit's Calihan Hall on Jan. 19. Pierce was the big gun for the Titans in that game, hit­ting 12 of 25 shots from the floor for a game-high 26 points. No other Detroit player even managed double-figure scoring in that con­test. 
• 
The Irish were successful in breaking Detroit's press in the last game between the two teams -so successful that Jones decided to pull his team back into a zone. That paved the way for a productive afternoon for the frontcourt players, four of whom scored in double figures. Sandy Botham led the way with a career-high 21 points and 14 rebounds, while Mary Beth Schueth had 14 points 
• 
and nine rebounds and Carrie Bates 
and Trena Keys added 12 apiece.
t 
If the Irish can produce a similar• effort Sunday afternoon, they should come away with a victory. The familar surrounding of the ACC should also prove helpful to Notre Dame, which has a 6-1 record at home this season. 
• 
~ngAdviCe . ~ 

~n~
alife / ,. 

I 
..·•·· 


Junior Parents \X/eekend Concert featuring:
....... _..,
.,....,... 

~;b.enani'sans 
Notre Dame's Singing and 
Dancing Ensemble  
When:  Saturday, February· 16  
3:00 p.m.  
\\'lwrP:  \\"ash i ngt on Ha I 1  

1UJ at~ tndcomc! jjuntot·s at~ cncouta~c~ to orin~ UJdt patents! 
have lost in their history as they try 
to extend their unbeaten streak to 
22. 

Against Case Western Reserve the 
Irish arc 37-0; against Miami (Ohio) 
they arc 7-0. They have yet to face 
Allegheny. 

"This weekend is going to be a lot 
like last weekend," said DeCicco. 
"Case Western Reserve is going to 
be the one that Is going to give us the 
most trouble because of their expe­
rience." 

Whik the Irish whitewashed their competition ofa week ago in scoring 20-plus points in each of their five wins, they probably will not be able to do the same this weekend. 
Tryouts for the United States Junior Olympic team andJunior Par­ents' Weekend will cost the Irish five of their nine starters. 
Taking time off to spend with par­ents will be foilist Craig Funai ( I 5­6). sabre men John Edwards ( 14-4 ), and Don Johnson ( 18-5 ), and epeeist Mike Gostigian (8-2). 
Taking time out to compete against other fencers in the 19-and­under Junior Olympic tryout bracket will be sophomore foilist 
St. Joe Travel Agency 
Plaza Place Building at 210 South Michigan Street Located just West of St. Joseph Bank in downtown South Bend (219) 237-5334 
Make your future travel plans now to lock in the low rates You can make reservations up to one year in advance Call the professionals at St. Joe Travel for airfare quotas to your destination 
237-5334 
Charles Higgs-Coulthard ( 24-1 ) and sophomore sabre man Kevin Stoutermirc ( 12-3 ), along with freshman sabre man Geoffrey Rossi ( 1 1-2). The three underclassmen wili be vieing for three spots in each weapon on the 198'5 United States Junior Olympic fencing squad, which will compete this spring in Holland against other world-class squads. 
In the last round to qualify for the squad, Higgs-Coulthard, the 1984 NCAA Foil Champion with a 67-7 lifetime record, is currently in second place. Stoutermire, 30-9 in two years, will be competing from the fourth spot, and Rossi will be looking for a strong showing to propell him into third from the tenth spot. 
"All four of them (including fresh­man women's foilist Molly Sullivan) have a very good shot at making the team," said DeCicco. "All four of them have to do well in order to make the team. They have a good shot at it. If they do well there, then hopefully, we might get one, two, three, or four of them to go to Hol­land." 

ULTRA SAVER FARES 
*Let us show you how inexpensive it is to fly for Spring Break. 
*Fly home for the Weekend. Call and find out the ridiculously low rates!! 
Seven Seas Travel 
525 N. Michigan 232-7995 
Friday, February 1 5, 1985 -page 10 
North Star Conference 1984-85 Standings Women's Basketball 
w  
Dayton  6  
Notre Dame  5  
Loyola  4  
DePaul  4  
Detroit  4  
Evansville  3  
Butler  1  
Xavier  0  

L  Pet.  GB  
1  .857  
1  .833  %  
2  .667  1%  
3  .571  2  
3  .571  2  
4  .429  3  
6  .143  5  
7  .000  6  


South Bend to Los Angeles •.•.•••••• $238.00 South Bend to Dallas.•.•.•••••••••••• 158.00 South Bend to New York.•.•.•••••.••• 138.00 
(some restrictions do apply) 
• 
: SUMMER PROGRAMS : ND-SMC STUDENTS 
• •• U.JNDON
• 
: May 22-June 2 
• Travel in lrellmd
•
•
• Scodandif~•

• 
Courses In Art, Bualneu and Economics, Education 
• English, History and nallan ~ 1~ 
: t..:;t~ /( 
e 0 . t' IM F b 1 ,;.!].;..J~_.­
• rg~mza wna eeting: e . 8th ·' ·.\.~-...{ 
e Rm 349 Madaleva (SMC) J., 
: 7:00pm London 8:00pm Rome ~...._, ., 1
,!if'' .! 
!!: --·· 
i_·.\ 

• For further info. call ~-·-. 
: Prof.A.R.Biack 4460 or 272-3726 ~--..., ·-~ • 4461 or 4491 
• • • e e e e e e Passport pictures will be takene • • • • • • • • 
: 

•
• 
• •
•
•
•
•
• • 

: ' 
•
• 
• 
• : • 



~~tellC3L~--------------------------------------F-r_w_a_y,_F_e_bru--ary---15_,_1_9_8__s __ l
va_g_e_l__ 

Doonesbury 
lWKIIJMI.MRS16ff151WIWSH flE5IfM5IJIJTY. Wli. ~l.ftil5lA­
J(X<S OlfRjtJFU5NECAlLEiJTOilJSI( IIM.LM5 N !RICE. 
/ 
5T?JP 1rl1 YOIJ'Rli MIMICKING Me.' WHY flO YOI/ IIU Pl?tY ON SOC!e1Y ? AA'Y (?rW'T YOIJ beTA NOR/t1AI. J09 :?f ANJW€!! Me/ 
OI<!IY,1H€N 
flON'T.' 
JVST. .. JriST 
L£4'1€ M€ INPMCf:.' 

m; t:SI£CIAUY 1lXXiHWilEN " 
Jf'IWs lE/16/W{f(Y'lll5llJP:f. .45 
7ERI5T!i£JIAXRIN~Ill/JC aJlJ6EIJ KJ ~71€/ENJ5(FMJI 
MElli/lEllllN. 
/ 
Garry Trudeau 
IvE B83Nll?YIN6 «HJfT(}() 70 THIN/: Of5fNI/It~ YOU MVE KJ 511'1 711/fT/IKXU)!XM 50 FlU?., IR71€!rffANIIk7 OF /tfY 
7RJP. 
jeffMillar & Bill Hinds 

The Far Side 
Cl 1985 Universal Press Syndicate 
"Aw, c'mon, you guys-the eat's away and everyone's so dead serious." 
fhe Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 41 Is ambitious 70 Iraqi port 10 Shot and shell 1 Forbidden 43 Soybean 71 Smelters' 11 Social dances 5 Comedian Bean product materials 12 Away from wind 
10 Pequod's 44 More caustic 
skipper 13 Stakes
46 Writer Hentoff 

14 Actor Richard 19 Raises
47 Greatly

15 Relative of beano imDressed 21 Crept quietly 25 Defraud 
16 Hidden spy 48 Turk. title 17 Affectations 49 "-in Arms" 26 More concise 
DOWN
18 Hearing aid (Roberts) 27 Blessed woman
Fresh-waterof old duck 28 Grant as true51 F and G 2 Exchange
20 Desolate 53 Sesame 29 Kind of car
premium22 Attitudes 54 Coffee or stew 3 Sheriff Andy 31 School subj. 
23 Corrode 58 Hiking tyro's Taylor's deputy 32 Forester24 Denominations condition mariner
27 Waco university 30 Article 62 Tattoo and 4 Breakopen 33 Model31 Sendoff reveille 5 Oil prefix 34 Fake jewelry 35 Mischievous 65 Offshoot 6 Ranges freely 37 Produce
child 66-of Man 
40 Kids' pie 36-Antilles 67 Open spaces 7 Roads ingredient 38 Musical ending 68 Make over 8 Baseball Mel 42 Brooklyn 
39 Food 69 Wall SUPDOrt 9 Correlative Institute 45 Gentleman 56 Ice house: var. 
burglar 57 Polar vehicle 50 Small tavern 59 Mythical Gr. 51 Guevara mountain 52 Kind of energy 60 Lift 54 Sacred bird 51 Selves 
of Egypt 63 Hackney 55 Reddish-brown 64 Macaw 
Thursday's Solution 

Campus 
Friday, Feb. IS 
•1:30 
p.m. -Basketball, SMC vs. Taylor, Angela Athletic Facility. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.-Film, "Romancing the Stone," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. •7:30 &9:30p.m.-FridayNightFilmSeries, "The Brother From Another Planet," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Hotel New Hampshire," li· brary Auditorium, Sponsored by Sophomore literary Festival, Free. 

•8 
p.m. -Chicago City Ballet, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Tickets S4.50, S5.50 and S6.50, Available at the SMC Box Office (284-4626). 

Saturday, Feb. 16 

•11 
a.m. -Sophomore Trip to Chicago, Meet at library Cicle, Will Return by Dinner Sunday. 

•3 
p.m. -Shenanigans Concert, Washington Hall, Sponsored byJunior Parents Weekend Committee, Free. 

•6 
p.m. -Senior Class Event, Lee's Blowout, Sponsored by Senior Class. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Romancing the Stone," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 


Sunday, Feb. 17 
•1 
· 4 p.m. -Opening Art Exhibition, Glenn Zweygardt: Steel & Stone Sculpture, O'Shaughnessy Gallery East. 

•2 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Women vs. Detroit, ACC Arena. 

•4 
p.m. -Concert, William Cerny, Faculty Piano Recital, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -BroadwayMusical, "Ain't Misbehavin"', Reserved Tickets Available at the Record Store, S5 With Student ID and S1 0 for Regular Admission, Tickets Also Available at SMC Box Office (284­4626). 


! TV Tonight 
Friday, Feb. 15  
7:00p.m.  16  M0A0 S0 H  
22  Three's Company  
28  jeopardy  
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
28  Wheel of Fortune  
8:00p.m.  16  Code Name: Foxfire  


©19B5 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Righls Reserved 

"ROMANCING THE STONE is super Engineering
entertainment." Associated Press 

Auditorium
Sunday, February 17 
8:00pm, O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC 
7:00 
Tickets: $5 students 
9:15
$10 all others 
11:30
/1 ~.~ 
On Sale NOW! ND Record Store 

$1.50
~-::n::-, ~ ......,,..... """"''"'~ 
O'Laughlin Box Office Century Center Box Office 
TONIGHT AND TOMORROW NIGHT 
-----~-------------~----------------------------------~--~----------~ --------~­
Friday, February 15, 1985 -page 12 
S~orts 
Irish hope to upset Duke i!l the Meadowlands 
By PHil. WOLF "is lh;H their guard~. Amaker and 
Assistant Sports lidilor Dawkins. have played togl'lhl'r filr a 
}Tar. ;llld tht·y havl' eont1dt·nn· in 
EAST RllTIIERI'ORD. N.J. ~ lkr~ lht· wc~y tht·y play the gamt·. They 
w~ go again. just general~ a lot of olft·nse. wht>­
Tomorrrow. for th~ founh tim~ thn it's in tran~ition or half-court. 
this ~~ason. th~ Notr~ Dam~ bask~l­against zone or man deknse." 
balltt·am will takt· on a Top· I 0 !~am Tht· kq to tht· game probably will 
in th~ hopt· of ~stablishing a be tht· play of tht· front-line playas. 
legilimat~ bid for an NCAA !ourna­though. Phdps said Wl'dnt·sday 
mt·m bt·nh. for tht· first tim~. nigh!. 
though. tht· Irish will bt· on a n~utral "I think li•r us to win the gaml'... 
nn1r1 as th~y mt'l'l the st·vt·nth­ht· explains. "wl''ve got to rl'ally bt· 
ranked Dukt· Hlut· Ikvils at Byrn~ aggrl'ssive on the boards. I think 
1\kadowland~ Arena. that'~ going to b~ a factor in this 
Tht· gamt· will bt· broadcast na­game. Thq don't have lht· shot tionally by NHC~T\'. bt·gmning at I blot-kt~r~. but tht·y hav~ the physit'al 
p.m. slrl'ngth. They also can bring in lll'n­
Nolrt· Dame. whid1 is 0-~ in dnson. who dot·s a lot of things lilr 
ganws thb st·ason against Top-I 0 tht·m." 
tt·ams. rakt·s a I +h r~n•rd imo to­Tht· Irish. who rank dghth in thl' 
morrow's ganu·. li1llowing Wt·dnes­nation in rebounding. have rdit-d 
day night's -•J-'H victory over N~w heavily on the insidt· gamt· all st·ason 
( >rll'ans at thl' Al .< .. Thl' Irish arl' +-f for much of their snlring. as Wl'll as 
on lht· road. tht· rl'hounds to gl'l lhl' transition 
Duke will bring an I H--l rl'cord game rolling. Donald Royal. Ken Bar­into !Ill' Meadowlands. Tht· Blue low and _lim Dolan have be~n th~ Ikvils. who ddi.·att·d Stl'lson. "H-" I. latest characters in the starting \X t·dnt·sday nigh!. have won all ll. of front-line roks. hut Tim Kt·mpton. thdr contests againM ll'am~ not in now rt'l'ovcred from the tlu that tht· Allam it" Coast Conft:rt•ntT. siddinl'd him a wn·k ago. should Sl'l" 
Dukt· and Notre Damt· havt· mort· playing limt· tomorrow. similar tt·ams in thatt·at·h team has a The Irish squad t·ould be a lillie ~rt·at dt·al of talent in ils junior dass. dt·pkted in lht· bat·kcourl. though. 
"\X hl'n wt· talkt·d about playing Scoll llicks and Dan Duff both lhb gaml'... Notrt· Daml' coach Dig­mis~t·d \X ednesday's gamt· bt"cause gt·r l'hdps said. "wt· kit it would bt· of thl' tlu. and both ~pelll that night a grl'at matt·hup btTaust· both in lht· infirmary. A spokeswoman for sd1oofs ha\'l' strong junior dasses tht· S!lldl'lll Health Ct·nter said last that are tht·lwart oftht· tl'am." night that both still wl'rt· staying 
Tht· juniors li•rming lhl' t·ort· of lhl'rt·. and it was uncntain whl'lhl'r tht· Blue Ikvib' squad art· 6-l. guard tht·y would bl' able to meet lht· rl'st Johnny Dawkins. 6-lJ forward Mark of the team in New _lersl'y li1r tomor­Alarit·. (>-H lTntt·r .lay Hilas and 6-" row·~ gamt·. ~:uard David I kndnson. Starters David Rin·rs and JoSt·ph 
Dawkins leads lht· Dukl' rostt-r in PritT left with thl' rest of the tt·am st·oring with hi~ I H."' points·p~r­yesterday morning. Phelps said tht· 
face the Irish. Phil Wolf previews the game in his 
game avt"ragt·. and he also has disht·d lt'am dt"partt·d so t·arly for thl' Satur­
story at left. 
oil I O'J assists thi~ Sl'ason. Alarie is day aftt"rnoon ganw btTaust· ht· did StTond w ilh a I 6.9 ppg. averagt·. and not want to miss any pr~l'!ict· bt·­Hendn~on·~ I 1.6 ppg. avnagt· b caust· of Wl'alhl'r ddays. Three "One day. that's all." Dukt· t·oat·h pcrc~nt from the field following to somebody in the Top I 0." Phelpsgood enough for third plan·. wn·ks ago. the Irish missl'd a day of Mike Krzyzewski said Wt·dn~sday W~dnt·sday's -! 1-perc.:ent shooting 
said. "I think if wt· t·an bt"at some­l'hdps said ht· ~xp~cts Alarie and practicl' hl'li•re a -:-,_6" loss at night of the time his !~am had to pnlilrmantT. 
body in the Top I 0. it's just going to 

Hila~ lo stan on lht· front lint· with Maryland. prepare for the Irish. "That concl'rr.s Phdps said the statistics do not gin· lht·st· guys a lot of conlidt·ntT st·nior Dan Meagher. a 6-7 Canadian ml' a lillie bil. \'\ l''ll havl' to gl't ready tell thl' wholt• story. though. Tht· going down tht· final stretch... Olympian. l'hdps ~aid ht· is looking Tht· Irish pral'!icl'd at thl' Nt·w rl'al quick." 
Irish art· 0-.~ agianM Top-I 0 tt·ams Tht• final stretch 10 which Phdp~li•r Dawkins to bt· joinl'd in the bat·k· York Athktic Club yesterday after­If thl' Blul' Dl'vils repeat their "9· 
this ~l'ason. just as thl'y art· 0--~ in all rl'ft-rs kads to tht· NCAA tourna· Ulllrt by (>-0 sophomore Tommy noon. and they will han· an hour to 
perCl'lll shooting of W~dnt:sday games in lhl' Mt·adowlands~ Both of mt·nt. and tht· Irish know that a win Amakt·r. shoot at thl' Ml'adowlands this after­night. il may b~ tht' Irish who will thesl' streaks will b~ on th~ lint· to· tomorrow will hdp th~m a gr~al "\X hat makt·s tht·m (lht· Blul' noon. as will the Blul' Devils. who appreciatl' th~ pranicl' time mosl. 
morrow. dt·al to t·nd tht· Sl'ason among the (HIkmons) so dftTiin·:· says Phdps. left Durham. N.<... this morning. Notrl' Damt" is averaging und~r -!6 "I think w~·rl' just tirt·d of losing tournament-bound tt·ams. 

Hockey team opens series tonight with Warriors 
By ED DOMANSKY Sports Writer  his Irish players. At the same time, however, he emphasizes that no team ever can be taken for granted.  "We must really strive to move the puck well," he said. "We have to recognize situations and be familiar  Smith's starter in the Irish goal for Friday's game, while sophomore Tim lukenda has a tentative starting  ment in Anchorage, Alaska, the Irish have just four games remaining on this season's schedule. After Monday  
MILWAUKEE. Wis.-After a solid  "It should be a relatively easy se­ with what  to  do  rather  than  just  assignment for Monday's contest.  night's  game  at  the  ACC,  Notre  
performance in series-finale with  last Iowa  Saturday's State, the  ries for us," said the Irish mentor, "but we can't take it and put it in the  panicking and forcing our way through and possibly giving up the  With the  recent  cancellation of  Dame will close out the 1984-85 season the following weekend when  
Notre  Dame hockey  team  wiU  at­ "W" column before we go out and  puck.  the Independent Invational Tourna­ it plays host to Michigan-Dearborn.  
tempt to transfer its new-found mo­mentum to the road as it travels to Milwaukee tonight for the first game of a home-and-home series with Marquette. Unlike the traditional home-and­home format, which features a game the following day, the two teams will meet again Monday night at 7:30 p.m. at the ACC.  prove ourselves on the ice. "They (the Warriors) will be ready to play. They have strong hopes of someday having their pro­gram upgraded to varsity and by playing us and making a good showing they gain credibility." "It could turn out to be very big for us if we could win one of the  "Saturday was a real team game. Everyone helped each other out and if we continue to play like that, we'll do fine." Co-captain Brent Chapman con­tinues to hold his place at the top of the Notre Dame scoring list with 28 goals and 22 assists. His linemate, Tim Reilly, is now just three points  Women's team ready for Detroit Sunday By LARRY BURKE times. Last weekend, the Titans Sports Writer lost an important conference game to Dayton at the buzzer, 56-54, that  
last weekend's split helped im­prove the Irish record to 7-16-I  games," said Marquette senior left wing Craig Gatto. "We know that  behind with 1 7 goals ~nd 30 assists. Co-captain Bob Thebeau remains in  After an unsuccessful venture to Alabama Wednesday night, the  dropped their record to 11-9. To make matters worse  for  
going into tonight's game. The War­ Notre Dame has depth, so we're just  third with 39 points and 18 goals.  Notre  Dame  women's  basketball  Detroit coach Dewayne Jones,  he  
riors are I 1-I 0-I.  going to skate our hardest to keep  team  will  try  to  regroup and  get  lost a  second starter to injury for  
The two teams met twice last season and the Irish came away with convincing victories In both con­tests. Notre Dame took a 9-4 win last Feb. 3 at the Wilson Park Arena in Milwaukee. The following night at the ACC, the Irish once again proved too much for their guests from the Beer City to handle, as they pounded the Warriors, 11-2. Notre Dame head coach lefty Smith said he is looking forward to  up." The Warriors are led by junior center Dan O'Grady with 45 goals and 30 assists. Gatto is second on the Marquette scoring chart with 69 points and 3'i goals. Another senior, Rick Carroll, is third with 59 points on 27 goals and 32 assists. To combat what looks on paper to be a high-scoring Warrior attack, Smith and the Irish have been  After missing action since the Forester Classic with a separated shoulder. junior left wing Dave Waldbillig will return to action this weekend. He will skate with center Tom Mooney and right wing Jeff Badalich on the second line. Junior defenseman Greg Duncan will be out of action one more weekend to further recover from the hip pointer he suffered in the se­ back on the winning track against North Star Conference-rival Detroit Sunday at 2 p.m. in the ACC. Wednesday's 67-62 loss to the Crimson Tide snapped a four-game Irish winning streak, and dropped Notre Dame's record to I2-8. In conference play, however, the Irish are 5-l, trailing only 6-1 Dayton in the NSC standings.  the remainder of the season. Senior guard Regina Pierce, the Titans' third-leading career scorer with I ,287 points, tore a ligament in her thumb last week that will bring an end to her Detroit career. Earlier this season, Jones lost 6-4 center Kim Sims to an injury, just four games into the schedule. The Irish won the first meeting of the season between the two  
the series as an opportunity to instill some much-needed confidence in  working on maintaining consistent puck movement.  ries at Huntsville, Ala. Junior Marc Guay  is  listed  as  a  Detroit, 4-3 in North Star play, is team that has fallen on hard  see DETROIT, page 10  


