Album reviews -page 7 


VOL XX. NO. 19 thl· indl'()l'lllknt ~tutknt m·w~paJXT ~t·ning tllllrt dame ;ttld ~aitll ma~ ·, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1985 

Fonner Notre Dame beadfootball coachAra Par· segbitm smilesfor sculptor Tuck Langland outside the Mnrrfs Cir•fc Artditorlum in South Bendyester· day. Langland created the bronze bust during part ofSculpture South Bend '85, a three-week outdoor sculpiure symposium. 
American held in Beirut released 
CONCORD, N.H.· The Rev. Ben· jam in Weir is free after a 16-month kidnapping ordeal in Lebanon, but President Reagan said yesterday that he will not he satisfied until the six remaining American captives also are released. 
Weir was relea.~ed to tJ.S. aut· horities In Beirut on Saturday, but an announcement wa.~ withheld to determine whether the release of the other Americans might also be obtained. 
"We were trying to keep it so quiet because we don't want to do anything that endangers the chances of the other six," Reagan said at the conclusion of a speech promoting his tax reform proposal. 
But White flouse spokesman Ed· ward Djerejian. briefing the press after Reagan's speech. said it 
became  apparent Tuesday night  
that  no  more  releases  were  im·  
minent.  

Unconfirmed reports about Weir's relea.~ surfaced Saturday with an anonymous telephone call to the Reuters news agency. The Presbyterian Church said early yesterday that Weir had been freed. Soon afterward. Reagan supplied the official confirmation that Weir was "back in America, safe with his family." 
"I am happy for him and his family," the president said, "but I wlll not be satisfied and will not cea.~ our efforts until all the hostages, the other six, are released." 
later, as he boarded Air Force One to return to Wa.-;hington from New Hampshire. Reagan held up six fingers and told reporters, "six more to go." 
Weir, 61, a Presbyterian mini· ster, wa.~ kidnapped by terrorists May H, 19H4, in Beirut. 
Neither Reagan nor Djerejian of­fered any details about his release. 
Djerejian said Weir was in Nor­folk, Va., but that he was not hospitalized. Doctors described Weir as being "in good mental and physical condition," the spokes­man added. 
He said the United States had made no deal with the terrorists who had held Weir. "Our position on negotiating with terrorists is very clear," Djerejian said. 
Asked if the United States had given up anything to win Weir's release, the spokesman said, "I'm not going to get into that." 
Djerejian refused to answer questions on why only Weir had been freed. 
But he said that "we have been In contact with several govern· ments" in the drive to free the ot· her Americans. He said Syria, widely believed to have influence with the terrorists, had not specifi· cally helped these efforts. 
According to Djerejian, officials had hoped the release last week of the last Lebanese prisoners held at Israel's Atlit prison camp would improve the atmosphere in the region. 
Vice President George Bush has scheduled a meeting tomorrow with the families of the six remain· ing kidnapped Americans. 
Another White House spokes­man, Peter Roussel, said the president told Weir the United States would continue its efforts until all the hostages are freed. Roussel said those efforts would in· elude "prayer as well as diplomacy." 
He quoted Reagan as telling the freed American, "You are an in· spiration to the people of this country and to all who might find themselves in situations of similar adversity." 
A native of Salt lake City, Weir graduated from Princeton Theological Seminary. He served as a pastor in Oakland, Calif. and as a U.S. army chaplain before being appointed to Lebanon as a mission· ary in 1953. Fluent in Arabic, he worked witl::l the National Evan­gelical Synod ofSyria and Lebanon and was actve in humanitarian ac­tivities and relief programs in Lebanon. 
When Weir was kidnapped, a man claiming to represent Islamic Holy War or Islamic Jihad, a ter­rorist group, told the French news agency Agence France Press that his organization was behind the incident. 
The caller said Weir's abduction was meant to "reiterate our com­mitment to the first statement we made after the U.S. marine headquarters blast that we won't allow any American on Lebanese soil." 
The group had claimed respon­sibility for the Oct. 23, 1983 truck bombing of Marine headquarters at Beirut airport, which killed 241, as well as attacks on a French paratroop building in Beirut and an Israeli post in southern Lebanon. 
In addition to Weir, Islamic Jihad also has claimed respon­sibility for abducting the other six Americans. The Americans who remain captive and the dates they were kidnapped are: 
· William Buckley, 56, U.S. em­bassy political officer, March 16, 1984. 
· Peter Kilburn, 60, a librarian at the American University of Beirut, Dec. 3, 1984. 
·The Rev. LawrenceJenco, 50, a Roman Catholic priest, Jan. 8, 1985. 
· Terry Anderson, 37, chief Middle East correspondent for the Associated Press, March 16, 1985. 
·David Jacobsen, 54, director of the American University hospital, May 28, 1985. 
. Thomas Sutherland, 53, dean of agriculture at the American Uni­versity,June 9, 1985. 
Student leaders request that Tlie Observer's books be made public 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
Copy Editor 
A group of student leaders has re­quested to see The Observer's finan· cia! statements from last year, according to a letter presented to The Observer last night by Student Body President Bill Healy. 
The signees of the letter include student leaders from all branches of student government, as well as leaders from student media. 
Observer Editor-in-Chief Sarah Hamilton indicated last night that she will not honor the request and that the financial statements will remain confidential. 
According to Healy, the request resulted from a unanimous vote by 12 student leaders taken during a secret Tuesday afternoon meeting. Representatives from The Observer were not invited to the meeting. 
A variety of issues were discussed concerning The Observer, accord­ing to Healy. 
"All kinds of people had all kinds of ideas and opinions of The Obser­ver," he said. "This (request) is what the group minimally decided to do." 
Healy denied that the request was an attempt to gain control over the newspaper. "The idea or concept of a · takeover at The Observer is ridiculous. 
"The concept that we are chal· lenging the editorial independence of The Observer is ridiculous too,,.. he said. 
According to the text of the re­quest, the student leaders want to see The Observer's 1984-85 finan­cial statements because "every stu· dent is required to pay the $6 fee, (and) these statements should be available for public inspection." 
"As student leaders it is our duty to monitor the expenditures of all student organizations which spend student fees (especially those held in a public trust)," the letter stated. 
According to Hamilton, The Ob­server is already accountable to stu· dents because the newspaper operates under the University's Budget Unit Control system. 
"The University approves our budget and they act as a final check on our financial transactions," she said. "We are accountable to stu· dents through the administration, just as student government is. 
"The biggest threat I see is that they want to monitor our ex­penditures and I think there is a risk for all students of losing an indepen· dent newspaper. 
"It comes down to do you want student government publishing your newspaper," Hamilton said. 
According to Healy, the meeting of the student leaders wa.~ called by Lee Broussard, Student Activities Board manager. On Monday, Hamil­ton denied a request by Broussard to see The Observer's financial state· ments, she said. 
Broussard could not be reached for comment last night. 
Healy said the request by student leaders was related to this year's raise In Observer advertising rates. "Apparently there is a concern about the rates," Healy said. "There's a question about the apparent great increase in rates. There are dis· crepancies in who gets charged what," he said. 
"No one is saying it's not justified. We're just asking to look at it," he said. 
The reason for the apparent dis· crepancies in Observer advertising rates results from specific organiza­tions and businesses receiving dis· counts, according to David Stephenitch, Observer business manager. 
Discounts are given to organiza­tions that purchase a large volume of advertising or provide ads that need no additional work before being sent to the printer, Hamilton said. 
The increase in rates in August was the result of rising costs in 
see BUDGET, page 3 
'Silkwood' lawyer scheduled to discuss trial, sanctuary 
By KATHY BERRY 
News Staff 
The civil rights attorney who represented Karen Silkwood's family in a landmark Supreme Court case that was the basis of a 1984 movie will speak at the Notre Dame campus today. 
Daniel Sheehan will speak on the Silkwood case at noon today in the University's law School student lounge. He also will lecture on the sanctuary movement In American churches at 8 p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Social Concerns. 
Sheehan is general counsel for the Christie Institute, a Washington based ecumenical public policy law firm, which provides lawyers to those who are unable to afford legal counsel. 
"It is very exciting for a lawyer of Dan Sheehan's caliber to be visiting Notre Dame," said Sara Webb Phil· lips, director of the Center for Social Concerns. "He is nationally known through the Silkwood case and his support of church workers prosecuted for giving sanctuary toil· legal aliens." 
The movie "Silkwood" was based on evidence Sheehan uncovered in researching his most celebrated . case, Silkwood vs. Kerr-McGee. 
During his lecture on sanctuary, Sheehan will discuss Issues arising from his legal representation of Stacey Lynn Merkt, the first of many church workers to be prosecuted for giving sanctuary to illegal aliens from Central America. Sheehan con­tends that the Reagan administra· lion's denial of political asylum to Central American refugees violates the 1980 Refugee Act. 
Sheehan's appearance at Notre Dame is sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School student organiza· tlon and the Center for Social Con· cerns. 
The Observer Thursday, September 19, 1985 -page 2 
t 
r 
r 
~ 
r ' f 
In Brief 
Senioritis is not burnout, according to the director of the University of Nebraska's Health Center. He said that job burnout stems from a lack of change, whereas senioritis is probably caused by the stressful life decisions facing students about to graduate. Two Michigan State University researchers had earlier drawn the comparison between senioritis and job burnout. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's Freshman Council election winners are: Annie Buch, Michelle Dill, Missy Dill, Tricia Flood, Beth Kavanaugh, Renee LaBoe, Carol Mahony, Sue Miller, Meaghan Nash, Erin O'Brien, Theresa Prieshoff, Allyson Sal~man, Janice Terpin. Forty-six percent of the freshman class voted in the election, said Election commissioner Mary Lally. ·The Observer 
Frederick Cooper,85, knew what to do when his ladder fell and he found himself stuck high up in the tree he was pruning. He pulled a cordless telephone from his pocket and called the fire brigade. But they didn't believe him. So, after waiting half an hour he called the police. They sent two men to get him down. When asked how he happened to have a cordless phone with him at the top of a tree, Cooper replied: "I was a Boy Scout when I was younger." The Scouts' motto is "Be Prepared." -AP 
Of Interest 
Outto lunch?The Center for Social Concerns will host a lunch tomorrow from 11 :30 until 1:30 at the esc building. The proceedsfrom the lunch will go to the Vietnamese refugees who will prepare it. Allare welcome. The cost is $3. -The Observer 
Dillon Hall's annual pep rally, held each year before the first home· football game, is tonight in front ofDillon at 8. Featured speakers will be Coach Kelly, Coach Lantz and Coach Well, as well as various Notre Dame football players. All are welcome. -The Observer 
A Pax Christi Chapter is being re-established at Notre Dame. Any interestedold or new members should contactJim Phalan at 239-7735.-The Observer 
Teach illiterate adults how to read. Training ses­sion tonight at 6:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. All new­comers are welcome. The session is sponsored by the Center for Basic Learning. -The Observer 
Senior Challenge 5-K Run registration takes place today and tomorrow from 6 to 8 pro at the Lafortune informa­tion desk. There is a registration fee of J1. The run will take place this Sunday morning. -The Observer 
The Entrepreneur Society of Notre Dame will have a short organizational meeting tonight at 7:30 in Hayes-Healy Room 124. All interested are encouraged to attend. · The Observer 
Anyone interested in working at the Shakespeare Club concession stand for the Michigan State game must attend a meeting tonight at 7 in LaFortune's New Orleans room. · The Obser­ver 
Weather 
Support 
March of Dimes 

CalHornia dream•n. , may ctis­rupt thoughts in class today as the summer weather continues. Sunny and warm today and tomorrow with highs in the mid 80s. Cooler at night with lows in the upper 50s. ·AP 

NOTRE DAME·s OWN ADVERTISERS 
Banning of kegs due to lawsuit demonstrates lack of logic 
On Oct. 27, 1979, Christeena Bearman ofButler, Ind. suffered a broken leg at the Notre Dame-South Carolina game, so now you can't have a keg on Green Field Satur­day. Having a hard time with the logic? So am I. 
A recent Notre Dame courtroom loss has led to the recent changes on and around Green Field. The suit also had an effect on the alcohol policy implemented in the spring of 1984. 
It is disturbing that the Indiana Court ofAppeals has determined Notre Dame is ultimately responsible for the behavior ofthose attending its home football games. It seems a common sense notion of responsibility has been irretrievably twisted by lawyers. Compounding the pity is the precedent the decision has established. 
A moment's thought will suggest that the University is not culpable for the drinking habits formed over countless years ofeveryone who steps on its property. As much as this institution enjoys the reputation ofser­ving as everyone's mother and father, the idea of such far-reaching responsibility 
thrust upon the University boggles the mind. 
A6l!SE OF THE RIWTS OF
Perhaps the judgment was seen by the administration 
OTf.lE~S AS A RESvt.T or:­
as a blessing to Notre Dame, ever seeking to extend the domain of its favorite Latin phrase in loco parentis. 
WhatI also find unsettling is the University's response to the court's decision. 
In order to protect us from ourselves, from each other, and most importantly, from lawyers, the University has prohibited the use of kegs on Green Field. As an 
added measure tion, the following informa­tion has been posted in the vicinity ofGreen Field, "Abuse of the rights ofothers as a result of the use ofintoxicating beverages will not be tolerated on University grounds." Apparently the University feels the abuse ofothers is permissible if the abuser is abusing some drug other than alcohol, or alternatively, abusing someone while you're sober hasn't been prohibited yet. You'll just have to wait for the appropriate lawsuit for that one, and the administration will, I'm sure, tack on an addendum to these gold and blue signs. And at the rate law schools are turning out un· employed lawyers, I feel quite sure your wait will be a short one. Aside from providing light entertainment to count­less alumni (especially those from the Law School) and making fans ofsuccinct English cringe, these signs serve no purpose, other than stating the obvious. These new tailgater measures were taken in an effort 
t.o give the impression that an attempt is being made to 
John Heasly 
Assistant News Editor 

insure the responsible use of alcohol. (At least, it is hoped, an impression that will stand up in court. ) 
But as educated people we clearly see that such measures will not deter those determined to get ob­noxiously drunk from doing so. Nor will they stop people from behaving in an obnoxious manner when drunk. So who is served by the recent actions of the University? You guessed it -the University. 
A lawsuit prodded Notre Dame into taking action to 
protect those attending 
home football games, that much is clear. The inference is that the administration was happy with the status quo on Green Field, that there was no problem with alcohol abuse. Obviously, 
one  woman  and  a  court  
decision  changed  that  
opinion.  

It's difficult at best to determine if a truly problematic situation exists out there, but it bothers me that lawsuits are fast proving the quickest way to get the attention of the administra­tion. Running a University with a seeming policy of dodging legal action seems a bit hypocritical for an in­stitution that claims to 

diffuse knowledge and understanding. 
The bottom line is the fans and the University are protected from each other no more this season than any other. The actions of the administration are legal window-dressing· the most visible and cheapest way to give the impression that something has been done. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support the 
~ ~t9!LQtQJQ1~ 
The Observer. 
lbe Observer (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students or the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purclwled for 130 per year ( S20 per se· mester) by writing The Obee~. P.O. 
Box Q, Noue Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member or The 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 


POSITIONS NOW AVAILABLE ART • WRITING • PUBLISHING 
Todlly's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor........................ Andi Schnuck Design Assistant ....................Alice Kroger Layout Staff. ............................. Alex Peltzer Typesetters .................... Becky Gunderman 
Charles]. Papandrea News Editor .......................... Mary Heilman Copy Editor................................ Miriam Hill Sports Copy Editor ................ Mike Chmiel Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ Doug Hasler Viewpoint Layout................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout............... Marie! Labrador ND Day Editor ...................Sharon Emmite SMC Day Editor................. MaryJean Sully Ad Design .................. Mary Carol Creadon Photographer ............ Maureen Bachmann 
"You just never know where it might take you ..." -Extra-Currtcular 
239-7668

, 
Thursday, September 19, 1985-page 3
The Observer 

Have panties, will party. 
Morrissey fresbmetl Matt Galo and Rodney Strickland proudly display the results of their ef-
The ObKrvar/Maurecn Bachmann 
forts at last night's panty raid at Saint Mary's. 
Hundreds of freshmen. stormed Saint Mary's in 
search ofunderwear during the annual tradition. 

MID .. EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
•v~,.,a,...,. &lkal D&.lwe FOODS 
SH.AWB.ltA. IIIUGMDftRA. · 8.4.8.4. GHENOUJ 
HOitlltiUS·FBLA.FEL ~ 
TBBBOIILI SA/.A.D 
• ~l'flolful Pa11n.,• Turlr&.lo Colfr~ 288-5639 
Tu~• · Sal 6::J0Pfll • 9::JOP!tl COMPLETE C:A.TBNNV FOR 838 Portage
PA.RTIBS .I BA.NQUBT!' • 
I Oi.Dis<:ount for ND/SMC Students 

·"crfQowerr~ {;orr aQQ or,(:o~io~~ 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway  232-3354  
Dr. HattyWolper is on  .  
eccentric genius. And,  ••. ·•· ·  

with the help of his loyol .· . assistants, he's d0$ing in on one of the greote$f discoveriet of all time. 
All that's standing il'l their way 
Author cites entrepreneurial spirit as key to success in business world 
-
PETER O'TOOLE •MARIEL HEMINGWAY •VINCENT SPANO rmwbble veraatility ofthis 
profeoaional quality fllm. 
NAME_______________ 
ADD~-----------­
CITY_______________ 
STATE ZIP_____ 
.._al:l .... ,...a.M~M:r. Mall to• Seottle FllmWorb P.O. 8oKC·34056 
Soaale, WA98114 
01984Sealrkflln.Wodra 
~:odd SZof7 II a tqlllaCd ~
STARTS SEPTEMBER 20TH AT SELECT THEATRES 
.,.... ,__oc..w.c.-. 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
Senior StaffReporter 
Students with new ideas could become tomorrow's corporate leaders if they take advantage of the entrepreneurial spirit pervading the American economy, best-selling aut­hor Paula Nelson told an audience at Hayes-Healy last night. 
"An entrepreneur is someone wil­ling to take on a risk, to do someth­ing out of the norm and right now we exist in a very unusual entrepreneurial environment," said Nelson. "We moved forward and now have a dramatic growth economy because of the entrepreneurial boom. For example, 
we  have  ·over  600,000  new  
businesses started annually."  
Nelson  attributed  this  rapid  

mc.pr.jm.k .•kc.k. kb,bn,cs 
~DUD ~ 
(f)./~·orF\\f"fV 
~ JJJu 
Prints 
andSUdes from tbe same roll 
Kodak MP 111m ... Eamnan Kodak'• profeooionolcolormodon plcrutt (MP) 111m now adap<edJor llill uoe in JSmm cament by Seattle fllmWorka. Ill micro-fine grain and rich color •turatlon meet me e>aiCtins lllllndattlo ofme movie induoay. Shoot in low or briaht llant from 200 ASA up to 1200 ASA. Oet prinll or ollda, or both, from me 1110e roO. Enjoy me wry lacat in phototjraphic ~olotlv with 
oubanlialavt,. 2ll74 
INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
0 Rwh me t'wo 20-expooure rolla of your leading KODAK MP !lim­Kodak 5247• (200 ASA). Encloaed ia $2.00. I'd Uke to be able to set color prin11 or olides (orboth) from me oame roll ond <>q>erience the 
Cocaine use reaches high addictive levels 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-A series of drug abuse studies released by the government yesterday indicate more than one of every four young adults has at least tried cocaine, which has emerged as a major public health threat, said · a top federal health official. 
Dr. Donald Ian MacDonald, head of the federal Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration, said cocaine "is one of the most powerfully addictive drugs known." 
"For years, people thought cocaine was harmless -a so-called 'recreational drug'," MacDonald said. "Now, we know the truth: cocaine can be a killer. Emergency room admissions associated with cocaine use tripled between 1981 and 1984. The number of deaths as­sociated with cocaine also tripled." 
In one of the papers published by the agency, Michigan researchers reported that use of cocaine, unlike other illicit drugs, tends to increase ampng young people after they graduate from school, and that young people also see less risk in cocaine experimentation by them· selves or others as they grow older. 
The researchers also said that while physical dependence on the drug is not inevitable, even among heavy users, the risk of becoming dependent is higher for cocaine than for other drugs. 
"Overall, we find a disturbingly high proportion of young adults in America place themselves at risk of developing a dependency on this highly reinforcing drug by taking the initial step of trying It," said Drs. Patrick O'Malley and UoydJohnston of the University of Michigan. 
growth to several current trends taking place within the economy. The first ofthese trends, said Nelson, echoingjohn Naisbitt's recent book, strictly industrial "Megatrends," is the switch from an industrial economy to one based primarily on information and service-related businesses. 
The second of these trends is "know-how and expertise are for sale. We have spinoffs in support areas ofbusinesses to accommodate our need for cheaper services," she said. 
A final reason for rise in the num­ber of entrepreneurs today is the availability ofcapital. 
"You need access to money to begin. You don't necessarily need money," said Nelson, "but you must have access to it. Today there is a great venture capital pool with capi­tal provided from overseas, venture capitalists, even credit cards." 
For today's college student this entrepreneurial spirit means oppor-
Budget 
continuedfrompagel 
The Observer is also "paying off 
two loans of about SlOO,OOO," 
Hamilton said. The loans are being 
used to buy a new computer system 
and typesetter, she said. 
Despite the ad rate increase, The Observer's rates are low relative to other college newspapers, Hamilton 
said. 
"I called seven newspapers today 
and we were lower than all but one," 
she said. 
Healy said members ofthe Univer­
sity administration have already 
been contacted regarding the re­
quest of the student leaders. "The 
administration has been talked to 
about the whole situation, the finan­
cial situation," Healy said. "We 
wanted to know what the legal right tunity, Nelson said. Citing her hypot­hesis that there are a lot of "closet entrepreneurs" · Individuals with ideas for Innovation but without means to bring the ideas to fruition immediately -Nelson emphasized that "innovation is the lifeblood of a corporation and corporate policy must encourage the ideas of the closet entrepreneurs" who are often found within restrictive corporate structures, reluctant to share their ideas. 
"We must teach people how to be 
entrepreneurs. These Individuals 
must recognize their economic or· 
bits of opportunity," Nelson said. 
"Your money-making capabilities 
come from your own economic or­
bit ofopportunity," she added. 
Nelson concluded her lecture by warning that the formula for success as an entrepreneur "may require 23­hour days and a blind commitment. Doing a good job Is not enough these days. However, doing an ex­cellent job will get you there." 
of the student body is as far as how their funds are spent," he said. 
The request was signed by twelve student leaders. The leaders signing the letter were Healy, Broussard, Duane Lawrence, student body vice president; Meegan Reilly, SAB publicity director and Joanne Ric­hardson, editor-In-chief of The Dome. 
Also signing were Reggie Daniels ofWVFI-AM;John Spatz, senior class president; Jim Domagalski, junior class president; Laurie Bink, sop· homore class vice president; Bryan Dedrick of Alumni-Senior Club; Kevin Howard, Hall Presidents' Council chairman and Eric Par· zianello, student body treasurer. 
"There's no hostility at The Ob­server," said Healy. "We just feel (the financial statement) is public Information." 
ND/SMC, we need your help! 
The Observer news department has immediate openings for dedicated, energetic people interested in reporting and writing the news. We currently are developing a staffofwriters who care about what goes on at Notre Dame and Saiilt Mary's a~d who want to keep people well-informed. If you think this could be for you, why not give us a call? We'll stick a pencil in your hand and a notebook in your pocket and put you on the beat 1'ight away. 
INTERESTED? Call Dan McCullough, Keith Har­rison or Tess Guarino at 239-5303 TODAY! 
Thursday, September 19, 1985 -page 4
The Observer 

Teetotalerswelcome 
Jbc, Qboervcr/Maurttn llochDWUl 
Over-enthusiastic tailgaters be warned; this Green Field sign indicates the University's plans to crackdown on alcohol abuse before all home games this year. 
r
, Weinberger: American technology 
r 
,r 
'subsidizing' Soviet arms buildup 
AModated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Soviets 
have been much more successful 
than previously thought in stealing 
Western technology and as a 
result, "we are subsidizing the 
military buildup of the Soviet 
Union," Defense Secretary Caspar 
Weinberger said yesterday. 
Weinberger released a study 
assening the Soviets have targeted 
specific American defense con­
tractors and universities; are ac­
quiring thousands of technical 
reports that are not classified but 
are useful, and are diverting high­
tech equipment designed for one 
purpose but which can be used in 
weapons programs. 
"By their own estimate, more 
than 5,000 Soviet military research 
projects each year are benefiting 
significantly from Western ac­
quired technology," Weinberger 
said at a news conference. 
The report said that while com-
Reagan calls opponents 'out oftouch' 
AMoclated Press 
CONCORD, N.H. -President Reagan said today that Washington politicians who maintain popular in­terest in his tax overhaul plan is nearly dead are themselves out of touch with the American people. 
"America wants tax reform; America deserves tax reform," Reagan said on the steps of the statehouse here. "If we stand toget­her, America is going to get tax reform." 
"There are politicians in Was­hington-someofthe sameones who constructed this tax code monstrosity -who say you, the American people, are not interested in tax reform," Reagan said. "The political establishment back in Was­hington says you don't care about these things. I say the Washington establishment is out of touch with the people," Reagan continued. 
At the end of his 20-minute speech, Reagan said he had some good news and officially announced that the Rev. Benjamin Weir, kid­napped 16 months ago in Beirut, had been released and was safely back in the United States. 
"But I will not be satisfied and will 
not cease our efforts until all the 
hostages, the other six, are 
released," he said. 
prehensive figures are not available, the Soviets estimate they saved at least S640 million in 1980 alone on selected military research projects by obtaining Western technology. 
Neither Weinberger nor Assis­tant Defense Secretary Richard Perle, who later briefed reporters on the study, would elaborate on the sources used to measure the Soviet etlon. 
But the report, said Perle, should lead to efforts by the United States to "even up" the number ofSoviet 
' diplomats allowed to operate here compared with the Americans in the Soviet Union. The United States and its allies should also consider "a system of blacklisting" to prevent Soviet agents who are ex­pelled from one country from gaining posts in another allied na­tion, he added. 
Perle said he would recommend that President Reagan not discuss any broader scientific and educa­tional ties with the Soviets when he meets with Soviet leader Mik­hail Gorbachev in November. 
The study was described as the product of a special Technology Transfer Intelligence Committee including officials from the Pen­tagon, the CIA and 20 other U.S. agencies. Much of the general in­formation in the study was dis­closed previously. But it gave what it called more examplesofhow the Soviets collect information and products and what they do with such technology. 
For example, the report said the Soviets somehow secured documentation on the weapon­controlling radars used on the Navy's F/A-18 jetfighter. It said the documents served "as the techni­cal basis for new look-down, shoot­down engagement radars for the latest generation of Soviet fighters." 

•
a un1que opportunity for 
Math/Science 
(Majors/Minors/ Aptitudes) 
For you and for the world. Peace Corps will combine your education with training to prepare you for a volunteer position in: • Education • Fisheries • Health • Agriculture • Forestry or other areas. You'll meet new people,learn anew language, experience a new culture and gain a whole new outlook. And while you're building your future, you'll be helping people in developing countries learn the basics of technological advancement. 
See our Film September 25 at 7:30p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns Interviews Oct. 9th In the Career & Placement Services, Memorial Library 
Syria: U.S. reneged on TWA hostage deal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Syria accused the United States of failing to honor an understanding on the release of 39 hostages from a TWA airliner hijacked in June and said it would not any longer try to win freedom for seven other American captives, a State Department official disclosed Tuesday. 
The official, who spoke only on condition of anonymity, said the Syrians made known their dis­pleasure in mid-July after it became clear that Israel would not release all of the more than 750 Shiite and Palestinian prisoners held at its Atlit prison immediately. The last of the 
prisoners eventually were released 
last  week,  1 0  weeks  after  the  
Americans  aboard  the  TWA  727  
were released.  

The official said it is not known whether the release of the last batch of prisoners by Israel last week will prompt the Syrians to give assistance now. 
Rep. George O'Brien, R-Ill., said on Aug. 16 that Syrian President Hafez Assad promised him he would work for the release of the other seven, while saying he didn't know who had them or where they were. 
"They said we had reneged on the deal, which we really hadn't," said the informed State Department offi­cial. 
Defections continue to hit West Germany 
Assoclated Press 
BONN, West Germany -The government rejected a request to tap the telephone of a couple who defected to East Germany, although the husband had been suspected for years, an Interior Ministry official said yesterday. 
The defections of Herbert and Herta-Astrid Willner were an­nounced Tuesday. She was a secretary in Chancellor Helmut Kohl's office and he worked for a foundation linked to a party in the conservative government coalition. 
West Germany's growing spy scandal began early in August with the first of several defections and there are increasing demands that Interior Minister Friederich Zim­merman resign. One defector was Hans-Joachim Tiedge, the man in · charge of catching East German spies. 
Hans Neuse!, the ministry official, 
told a news conference that Herbert 
Willner had been under surveillance 
sporadically for 12 years an9 Tiedge, 
who defected Aug. 19, was in charge 
ofthe case. 
He said Kohl was informed Aug. 
28 that Mrs. Willner was being 
watched because her husband was 
suspected of spying for communist East Germany, but agreed with mini­stry officials that there was not enough evidence to justify tapping the couple's phone or reading their mail. Mrs. Willner, 45, was a secretary in the domestic affairs department of the chancellery. 
By that time, the Willners were out of the country. They left Aug. 12 for a vacation in Spain and are believed to have gone to East Ger­many at the end of the month, Neuse! said, adding that Tiedge may have warned them. 
Hans-Juergen Foerster, a spokes­man for chief federal prosecutor Kurt Rebmann, said a search of the Willners' apartment revealed equip­ment that could be used for spying, including a container suitable for concealing microfilm, sensitive documents and a large amount of money. 
The Willner case is the first time a 
spy has been found in the chan­
cellery since Guenter Guillaume, a 
top aide to Chancellor Willy Brandt, 
was exposed in 1974. Brandt 
resigned and now is chairman ofthe 
opposition Social Democrat Party. 
"Mrs. Willner worked in the nerve 
center of the government. We are 
happy that (the East Germans) have 
lost an agent in the chancellery 
through her defection," Neusel said. 

ROBERTLEEfor hair 
Total Appearance Consultants offer Notre Dame and Saint Mary's the most progressive and sophisticated images availabl 
Robert Lee welcomes to his staff 
DAZZ AND JULIE 
(Formerly With Jan's Hair~Um) 
with a 
207.Discount off all service 
with any stylist Offer good through Sat. Sept. 21 
234-6767 
Corner of Ironwood and Edison (Formerly Shear Dimensions) 
-~--------~------~ 
Thursday, September 19, 1985 -page 5 
The Observer 

Taking a breakfrom the tedium ofclasses, these two students stretch out on South Quad yesterday.Lie here often? The weather was nice enough to keep up main­
tenance on those now-fading summer tans. 
Gemayel's palace sustains damage during latest skirmishing in Beirut 
Aasoclatcd Press palace spokesman said. In southern Lebanon, a car bomb 
Gemayel, his staff and guards and exploded at a Christian militia out­
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Six rockets his visitor all escaped harm, said the post, and state-run television said 30 and mortar shells crashed into Presi­spokesman, who spoke on condition troopers were killed or wounded. dent Amin Gemayel's suburban he not be identified. But in Jerusalem an Israeli military palace during battles between Mos­He said six l20mm mortar shells source said soldiers fired at the car, 
lems and Christians Tuesday, but the and Soviet-made Grad rockets ex­blowing it up, and there were no president was not injured, his aides ploded at the main entrance to the casualties among the Israelis or reported. palace. militiamen. 
Christian-controlled radio broad­Saeed Dawi, a ranking official of casts blamed the Druse for the attack Druse warlord Walid Jumblatt's New fighting also raged between on the palal·e. Progressive Socialist Party, said Moslem factions in the northern 
Gemayel, a 43-year-old Christian, Druse forces were "only retaliating port city of Tripoli. Police said 18 wa..-; meeting in his office with Parlia­for the shelling of Druse towns and people were killed and 88 were ment Member Fuad L.ahoud when villages in the central mountains by wounded in the fighting that swept 
the palace at Baabda was shelled, a army positions at Baabda." Beirut and Tripoli. 
1 
~
Britain declares end I 
to Soviet expulsions 
second-rank intelligence operatives, and the Kremlin matched that yes­LONDON -Britain called a halt terday by ejecting six more Britons. 
yesterday to the exchange of diplomatic expulsions that began when the KGB's top agent in London defected. The end came after the Soviet Union ordered six more Britonsout, making the score 31-31. The Kremlin, in its first major 
diplomatic imbroglio since Mikhail 
Gorbachev assumed power March 
11, took the unusual decision to 
retaliate in equal numbers to 
Britain's expulsion of 25 alleged 
Soviet spies last Thursday and six 
more on Monday. 
The Foreign Office said after Mos­cow completed the second round yesterday that it would not evict any more Soviets, insisting that it had not Backed down and that Britain had come out ahead. 
The cycle of ejections reduced the number of British citizens in Moscow from l03 to 72 and the number of Soviets in London from 234 to 203. 
Britain started the scrap by expell­ing 25 alleged Soviet agents last Thursday on information provided by Oleg Gordievski, 46, identified by the Foreign Office as the KGB sta­tion chief in Britain who defected recently and received political asylum. Gordievski is reported to have been a double agent for up to 15 years. 
The Soviet Union responded on Saturday, ignoring London's war­ning not to retaliate and ordering an equal number ofBritons out of Mos­cow. 
On Monday, Prime Minister Mar­garet Thatcher's government expelled six more men it said were 
It was the biggest spy confronta­tion between Britain and the Soviet Union since 1971, when London kicked out I05 alleged Soviet spies. The Kremlin in that instance reacted mildly, expelling only 18 Britons, I 0 of whom had already left the Soviet Union, and the matter ended there. 
The only expulsions since were in a series ofexchanges between 1981 and April of this year that cost the Soviets 12 alleged spies and Britain 8. 
"The Soviet Union must bear the full responsibilty for this lamentable episode. This severe setback to United Kingdom-Soviet relations was not of our choosing," Eir Geof­frey Howe, Britain's foreign secretary, said yesterday in London. 
Both Howe and Thatcher expressed hope that relations would improve over the long run. 
When Gorbachev visited Britain last December, as the number two man in the Soviet leadership, Thatcher and many British officials were impressed by his style and per­formance. 
"I like Mr. Gorbachev. We can do business together," Thatcher· said then. 
Asked yesterday whether she still felt she could do business with him, she paused, then said, "Yes, but men can be difficult sometimes." 
Britain said Gordievski's defec­tion gave it a major gain in the East­West intelligence contest. The KGB agent "was in a position to know full details of Soviet intelligence ac­tivities and personnel in this country," the Foreign Office said. 

Castro says 
•
prisoners will be freed 
WASHINGTON-Cuban President Fidel Castro, reacting to human­rights pleas from U.S. Roman Cat­holic bishops, is offering to release 75 political prisoners, church and 
U.S. officials said Tuesday. 
The general secretary of the bis­hops' national organization said he was "happy and hopeful" concern­ing the offer, and State Department spokesman Joseph Reap said, "We are always pleased to see political prisoners released by the Cuban government." 
However, Reap said, "any real nor­malization in migration matters will depend on Cuba's ending its suspen­sion of the migration agreement concluded last December and taking back the Marie! exdudables." 
The agreement called for Castro to allow up to 2,000 former political prisoners and 20,000 other refugees a year to apply for U.S. visas. It also provided for the return to Cuba of about 2,700 unwanted refugees, most of whom had been convicted of crimes in the United States since arriving in the huge 1980 boatlift from the port ofMariel. 
Still, release of the new batch of 
political prisoners was likely to b~ 
seen as a new gesture coward easing 
of tensions between Castro's island 
nation and the United States. The 
fact that Castro received the U.S. bis­
hops for a private, five-hour meeting 
earlier this year had been viewed in 
that same light. 
Visiting Cuban bishops brought word last week that the release was being offered and that the decision "had been based In good measure on overtures made to President Castro by a delegation of U.S. bishops during a visit to Cuba last January," said Monsignor Daniel Hoye, general secretary of the National Conference ofCatholic Bishops. 

The Observer 
The Observer/Maureen Bachmann 
Hike! 
These Breen-Phtllips football players apparently have worn the ground away underneath them practicing this play in preparation for the upcom­
ingseason. 
Insurance companies suggest blood tests to detect AIDS 
Thursday, September 19, 1985-page 6 
-----------~----~ -~-­

U.N. opens its new session amids!J>udget controversy 
UNITED NATIONS-The United States threatened during the opening of the 40th session of the General Assembly Tuesday to reduce its share of the total U.N. budget from 25 percent to 20 per­cent unless weighted voting is in­troduced for money matters. 
That system would give the major Western allies control of fiscal policy. 
The session was brought to order by outgoing Assembly President Paul Lusaka ofZambia. 
Lusaka said he strongly opposed changing the current voting system, which gives each of the 159 as­sembly members one vote regard­less of how much it contributes to the budget. 
He said the U.N. charter specifi­cally granted equality to each mem­ber, and weighted voting would require a change in the charter. 
The only veto power now lies with the five permanent members of the Security Council -the United States, Soviet Union, China, Britain and France. 

Congress passed a bill last month, which Reagan signed, requiring that the U.S. contribution be limited to. 20 percent ofthe U.N. budget unless weighted voting on fiscal matters is introduced by next year. 
If the charter were changed and each country's voting power reflected its contribution, the United States, Japan, West Germany and France could control U.N. spending because together they provide more than half the budget. 
Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, a Kansas Republican, sponsored the bill, claiming there is too much fat in the 
U.N. bureaucracy. 
High salaries and the General As­sembly's authorization last fall of $73 million for a large, modern con­ference center in famine-stricken Et­hiopia have been cited repeatedly as examples ofU.N. extravagance. 
There now are 147 items on the anniversary session's agenda, and the situation in South Africa is ex­pected to dominate debate. 
Insurance companies are keeping a wary eye on costs from AIDS, wor­rying that health and life insurance payouts could skyrocket as the disease spreads. Some say they may have to begin screening applicants by using a blood test that reveals ex­posure to the AIDS virus. 
Wisconsin and California, however, have barred the use of test findings for insurance purposes and New York state's Insurance Depart­ment will not let insurers ask about blood. test results on application forms. 
Results of national reading survey show both improvement, decline 
A.ssoclated Press 
WASHINGTON The reading ability of 17-yeat-old students im­proved in the past four years after a decade of stagnation, but 9-and 13­year-olds have stopped making progress; a federally backed testing agency said yesterday. 
At all threeage levels, pupils read better now than in 1971, the Na­tional Assessment of Educational Progress reported, and the biggest 
Holy Cross Fathers 
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame~ IN 
Howdolknow if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wru!t is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
What scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
What are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How dol pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 
Dan Sheehan------~ 
*Lead Attorney for Karen Silkwood (basis for "Silkwood movie) 
* 
Legal Counsel for Stacy Lynn Merkt, the first church worker prosecuted for giving sanctuary to Salvadoran Refugees 

* 
General Counsel, Christie Institute, Washington D.C. 


12 p.m. Silkwood: 
The Nuclear Power Law School Conspiracy Lounge 
8 p.m. Sanctuary: 
The Rise of Christian For Salvadorans: Center for 
Conscience Social Concerns 
Thurs. Sept .19 
Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns, Social Justice Forum,BALSA, PAD, Women's Legal Forum, La Rozo, Notre Dome Legal Aid. 
gains have been registered by blacks 
and Hispanics. 
But "The Reading Report Card," a 
study based on tests administered to 
250,000 school children over the 
past 14 years, also dramatized the 
big gap remammg between . minorities and the white majority. 
The average black and Hispanic 
17-year-olds can read "only slightly" 
better than the average white 13­
year-old, the report said. 
It graded reading on a five-step 
scale -from rudimentary to basic to 
The possibility of insurers using the test has raised fears of dis­crimination among high-risk groups, principally homosexual men. They note that the test, used by blood donor centers, detects exposure to the AIDS virus and that only 5 per­cent to 20 percent ofthose who test positive will actually develop AIDS. 
The insurance industry contends the blood tests can be a valid tool in underwriting individual health and life insurance policies. Group policies, such as those offered by employers, would not be affected since they are not based on in-
For personal~ confidential interview with no obligation~ please write or call a vocation director. Box 541~ Notre Dame~IN 
46556 
For appointment~ call between 
8:30am & 4 219-239-6385 
Fr. Michael Couhig,C.S.C. Fr. Paul Doyle,C.S.C 
dividual medical reports, industry spokesmen said. 
The Wisconsin law has been at­tacked by Milwaukee-based Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., which threatened this week to begin excluding coverage of AIDS from policies in its home state. 
"In the case of all other diseases, we're permitted to get all the facts, bu~ this legislation prohibits us from requiring a test to determine if they have the AIDS virus," said George Hardy, legislative counsel for Northwestern Life. "We think we can show that it's a reliable test for insurance underwriting purposes." 
intermediate to adept to advanced. 
"We are not raising at present a generation of illiterates. Virtually all of our children possess rudimentary reading skills sufficient to follow simple directions ... and respond to easy questions," Secretary of Educa­tion William Bennett told a news conference. 
But he expressed concern that al­most 36 percent of the 9-year-olds have not acquired the basic com­prehension skills needed to succeed in third-and fourth-grade work._ 

Accent 
Thursday, September 19, 1985 -page 7 
A rose among the thorns sticks out 
'Mask's' an albunt to appreciate 
Mark Mellett 
Record review 

Mask 
Vangelis *** 
Records are rated on a four-star scale, four being the best 
K 
eys tremble with a constant 
spirit among the chants ofan­
gelic voices. The pompous shud­
ders of harp and horn transcend 
into the dream of provocative syn­
thesizers. 
Vangelis has returned with yet another album ofastonishment. Creative new sounds, pacifying atmospheres, and active surrealism congeal into the unique form of Mask. 
Upon hearing Mask for the first time, you will not experience the appreciation ofsuch an unusual record. The aggresive sounds, along with the Latin incantinations do not make for an immediate liking. After a few days of trial, though, Mask does reveal its worth. 
Mask was divided up into move­ments instead ofsong titles, as was his last album, Soil Festivities. It contains six such movements. Each is different, but all have a similarity; a continuous play of running keys. 
Movement I begins with a penetrating sound ofa metallic gong which follows into the con­stant key play. The music is harsh and uneven. It settles to a smooth synthesizer and a calm background 
voice. 
Movements 2 and 3 compliment the first with a wide range ofscales and remind one of the lone organ of the dungeon ofold movies. The chant of the choir is set offwith a glass shattering effect and cul­minates with a-clap ofthunder. 
The sound is so foriegn that when 
the first side of Mask has reached its 
end, you may find yourselfreluctant 
to listen to the second. 
Movements 4 and 5 resume the 
atmosphere with delicate chimes 
and the motifof key play continues. 
A varied range of voices canter in 
Latin. 
After the listener has revolved through the spectrum of the first five movements, Movemen~ 6 closes with the serene style ofVan­gelis. 
This album is not for the un­wavering ear. It is distictive, yet subtle; classical, yet futuristic. Mask holds within itself a srimulant ofthe emotions. It is something not often found. 

Y ngwie a waste 'Marching Out' 
Gerry Scimeca 
Record review 

Marching Out 1 
Rising Force 
Records are rated on a four-star scale, four being the best 
you had a S I 00 bill, you could
I f 
roll it into a cigarette and smoke 
it, but you probably wouldn't be­
cause it would be a waste. 
Waste, unfortunately, is the only thing that happens on Marching Out, the new album by Yngwie Malmsteen's Rising Force. It's bad enough that this collection of heavy-metal anthems is among the worst things ever made, even by heavy-metal's standards, but it is truly baffling that this album has come from one of the most truly gifted guitarists in music today. 
Anyone who listens to this album 
can tell that Yngwie (pronounced YlNG-we) is a great guitarist. But in Marching Out, his second album since leaving the heavy-metal band Alcatrazz, the material is terrible. His guitar leads, as fast and furious as they are, come across only as incredible noise. 
The songs themselves try to be a diverse offering within the hard­rock framework. Such songs as "Overture 1383," which has a clas­sical feel, and "Marching Out," which is as close to a hallad as Yngwie comes, fall flat from un­originality. Even during these songs he can't help but insert a blazing solo, which sounds as good in these songs as it would in the theme from the Flintstone's. 
His songs, all ofwhich he composed, are such a mishmash of different styles that don't belong together. It becomes comical after a while. Witness "Disciples of Hell" for example. The song starts well with a beautiful acoustic solo that really displays Yngwie's guitar prowess. It is very Spanish­sounding. You get an image ofan old Flamenco guitarist, sitting on a stool in a room alone, playing-so that the guitar seems to cry. But 30 seconds into the song, Iron Maiden kicks the door in and drowns him out in a chorus ofdistorted power chords. I know afew Disciples of Hell and even they were em­harassed. 
Although Yngwie calls his band Rising Force, it doesn't take too long to see that they are going nowhere, unless, perhaps, Spinal Tap needs an opening act. 


Andy Kinney 
Record review 
Banging the walls 1 
Bar-Kays 
Records ere rated on a four-star scale, four being the best 

Bar-kays bark up the wrong tree 
B 
ar-kay's new album, Banging the Walls, would be more ap­propriately named Writings on the Walls, for the lyrics are reminiscent of the words scrawled on the stalls of mens' bathrooms. Equally as interesting are the repetitious beats of the "songs," a closer relative to for-next loops than rythym and blues. 
Albums with obscene lyrics, such as this one, are considered gim­mick.'>, designed to entice immature youths, who hope to catch a glimpse of what they miss on the street, to buy the album. Somehow the idea that this group "got away" with putting such words and meanings into their songs provides a mystique. The album is then credited with having a sort ofin­dividuality; but ifeveryone were individuals such as they, Hugh 
Hefner would be out ofbusiness. 
Ifthe first song, "Your Place or Mine," doesn't adequately express the need for certain kinds ofhuman companionship, then the next songs, "Sex Driver," "Dance Your Body," "Desara," and the other poor excuses for music, certainly will. 
The title track, "Banging the Wall," is as entertaining as listening to someone eating a fresh bowl of Grape-nuts. In the moderate ex­panse offour minutes and fourty­one seconds, "banging the wall!" is repeated a total of thirty times. Personally, I favor Grape-nuts. 
The only people who would probably find any interest in this album would be those psychology majors looking for a term paper subject. With lyrics like "I can't resist and there's no use in trying ..• cause I got no control, " Freud's Id literally beckons for attention. 
Overall, I'd consider their cheap excuse for lyrics as the Bar-kays' worst feature in their new album, followed closely by the music. A warning appears on the outside wrapper, unfortunately not enough ofone. Ifyou are naive enough to buy this album, the only people banging the wall will be your next door neighbors. 
~i~~~_C:_J_}_._Jl__t_________________Th_u_rsd_~_,s_ep-te-mb-e~rl-9,_19_8_5--pa-ge--8 
A cure must be found for 'handicap' of education 
Remember those bumper stickers that say "ifyou can read this, thank a teacher?" Well, I always thought they were pretty silly. Everyone knows how to read -school is re­quired in America, so how could anyone go through childhood without learning to read? I guess I am a little naive about these things. 
Heidi Cerneka 
simply said 
I spent this summer, however, in rural Alabama meeting and teaching those children who make it through school without learning how to read. "Phi Delta Kappan," an education magazine, refers to these children as the "new educational underclass." They tend to come from culture-poor homes, and they often have difficulties in meeting the requirements ofthe school from the very beginning." The r magazine goes on to talk about the impor­r tance of visible achievement in the schools, r and what happens to those children who do r not achieve. "Despite theirpoor performance, r they are often promoted to the upper grades,
, 
where, as soon as attendance is no longer re­r quired by law, they tend to drop out." 
The neighborhood I lived and worked in was poor. No one was starving, but people were definitely scraping to make ends come as close to meeting as possible. I, in fact, dis­
covered that the poverty of these people was starVation; they were starved for knowledge. Alabama is the 49th lowest state for quality of education. One of my students,John, is in the ninth grade and had to struggle through a Dr. Seuss book this summer. His sister, Matilda, just turned 16 and she is still working through first grade phonics books. These are things we whizzed through in first grade. The difference is phenomenal; it is like comparing a race bet­ween a high-powered speedboat and a swamped rowboat with a broken oar. Cer­tainly the motorboat is going to do much bet­ter and the rower will be lucky to finish under such circumstances -stacked beyond his or 
her control. 
From an objective viewpoint, the ability of the students could be questioned and blamed for the inability to learn. John and Matilda are the norm, however, and not the exception. In fact, how could they be passed for nine years through school, if they cannot read? Some­where in there lies the blame, maybe with the teachers, or the parents or the school system. Once a student gets to about third grade wit­hout being able to read, a teacher no longer expects to have to teach his or her students to read. 
Another aspect ofthese students' education that makes me cringe is how they were all rewarded for passivity. Children, who are too simple to make up lies, told stories of classes where they were allowed to go to the gym and watch television if they payed the teacher a quarter. John told me how he finally learned how to get through classes unscarred. He had a music teacher who used to walk around the room with a stick and hit people who were acting up. Now maybe he did not hit really hard, but the fact is that he hit students. John_ finally realized that if he just laid his head 
down on his desk and did not pay attention or cause any problems, he would not get hit. So, that is how John Grant passed music. If the students did not protest, they were passed on to the next level. If they did cause problems, they were passed on anyway. No teacher wanted to retain a troublemaker. 
One ofthe boys I taught this summer, Sher­man, was a dreamer. He is an artist at heart. Unfortunately for Sherman, there is no room for artists in Gordonsville, Alabama or any ot­her poor area like Gordonsville. The most im­portant thing for children to learn is productivity, how to work your hardest pos­sible to make enough money to survive. There is no place for someone who sits and dreams of other worlds and how things could be. Ar­tists like Sherman will get stomped on be-. cause they do not know how to defend themselves in this. world. 
SisterJane Kelly, a nurse practitioner I met in Alabama, gave me the best possible descrip­tion of the plig.'"It of these children. She described them as crippled. She was working 
at her clinic one day and a boy came in. Sister Jane asked him to read the poster across the room. When he could not do it, she became worried about his v!sion. Then the poor boy finally said, "Aw, Sister, I can see fine. I just don't know what all them letters spell." He was 12 years old. Sister Jane said if only they just had broken bones, then the clinic could help them. Unfortunately, it is more severe than that. It is like a crippling disease. Unless we can get these children out of their system, they will never be any better. 
The more I thought about the debilitation ofthese children and their families, the more I could not imagine their struggle to be self­sufficient and surviving people. Just try to drive down the street one day and not read any, any of-the signs. On the highway, read no billboards or signs to tell where to get offand how many miles still to Lo. In the city, try having to memorize directi, 'lS by landsights or images because street signs mean nothing. Try going to the grocery store and not being able to read the labels on the cans or meats. The handicap reaches much further than I can imagine. I do know. however, that these kids really want to learn, and s0mething must be done to stop this losing battle of theirs and give them a chance to stop the disease. 
Heidi Cerneka is a junior religious studies and English writing major at Saint Mary's and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
NATO has relied on United States for too long 
NATO-The North Atlantic TreatyOrganiza­tion. The name evokes visions of the postwar Western democracies united for their com­mon defense against the Soviet hordes, joined in mutual sacrifice and cooperation. That is the vision, anyway. Contrast that to the Bel­gians balking at the attempt led by the United States to safeguard Europe through the much needed modernization of NATO's prime deterrent, its tactical nuclear arsenal, or the West Europeans' continual neglect to provide even marginal increases in their defense ex­penditures. Currently, Europe spends about two to three percent ofits GNP on defense as compared to seven percent by the United States. 
Ken Soergel and Michael M. Traynor 
guest column 
To make matters worse, our allies refuse to transcend petty nationalism and the ghosts of history, thus preventing the integration of their forces and resources under a unified command. That is the reality ofNATO. 
After 1945, the democracies of Western Europe and Germany were in a postwar shamble, apparently ripe for Soviet domina­tion. To give these countries time to rebuild to the point where they could provide for their own defense, the United States, in con­
junction with the Marshall Plan, encouraged the formation of NATO. Accordingly, the al­
r 
r 
liance materialized, (helped greatly by the Soviet play for hegemony during the Berlin blockade)and the states west ofthe Iron Cur­tain rebuilt economically and militarily under 
Doonesbury 
U.S. benevolence. At that time, the alliance benefitted both sides; Europe rebuilt quickly as the United States salvaged the economiesof its major trading partners and secured a bas­tion of formidable wealth and power to face the "red menace." 
Today, however, is 1985, and the United States still keeps over one-quarter ofa million troops in Europe and pays a defense budget ridiculously out of proportion to its relative economic position, as if the Europeans were utterly without resources to provide for themselves. 
For the past three decades, America's allies have steadily over-relied on our conventional and nuclear forces while refusing to take the long overdue steps of integrating their military forces into a joint general staff. This would provide three advantages·. First, stan­dardized equipment (and considerable cost savings through economies ofscale), second, standardized doctrine and third, territorial depth (absolutely necessary for fighting in the fluid mechanized battlefield of today). In­stead, they rely on American forces in Europe to draw the United States into combat, and when faced with the loss of Europe, (which would certainly occur ifa Soviet conventional army attacked), to use the now chimerical nuclear umbrella to stop the Soviets from finishing their victory. The nuclear umbrella is chimerical because the presumption of nuclear supremacy on which the umbrella is provided is obsolete. 
Why do our allies persist in this pathologi­cal military posture? 
Why do the West Europeans persist in this pathological military posture? Two main reaons stand out: 1 ) The countries of Europe 
prefer to spenii their money on their over­
generous social programs and subsidize their 
obS<:>lete industries. 2) The West Europeans­
know that the only rational defense posture requires an integration of forces under a single unified command. Every knowledgeable European knows that the leadership of this command, (and hence the leadership of Europe) would fall, logically, to the obvious economic and military leader of postwar Europe -West Germany. To prevent the rise of Germany to its natural pre­eminence, they prefer to resurrect the long dead ghost ofGerman militarism to provide a convenient excuse to maintain their paltry military posture, and to rely upon U.S. .benevolence, although they protest foudly enough when we wish to commit the un­speakable crime of modernizing our 
European nuclear deterrent! 
In our opinion, the only way to cajole the West European countries into adopting a realistic military posture is to gradually withdraw all U.S. military personnel. The Europeans certainly could take care of them­selves ifthey wished to. Their GNP is $2.2 tril­lion (1980) vs. the East European -Soviet GNP of $1.75 trillion (1980), and the European manpower pool is 400 million compared to the Soviet 375 million. Furthermore, the Europeans have a substantial technological superiority in tanks, aircraft, helicopters, electronics -every military category. Every military professional agrees that the German Leopart II is far superior to the Soviet T-72 tank, and the British-French-German-Italian Tornado is the finest tactical strike aircraft in existence. These could be built in substantial numbers if only the Europeans cooperated in 
producing standardized weapon design, a 
Garry Trudeau 

move that would certainly be encouraged . when faced with the reality of a U.S. withdrawal. 
But, you may ask, would a U.S. pullout leave the Europeans naked to an overwhelming Soviet nuclear superiority? Far from it. The British and French nuclear arsenals (including over I00 submarine-launched missiles), 
·French bombers, and French tactical missiles would certainly deter the Soviets from the idea of attacking Western Europe just as well as American missiles. Furthermore, if West Germany would re-awaken from its self­induced coma and produce a nuclear missile or two (or two hundred), the Soviets would not be too anxious to attack an alliance headed by a uniquely militarily dynamic na­tion. Continued U.S. military assistance to Europe only retards these healthy processes from occurring. 
If, on the other hand, the remote possibility of European surrender occurs, what of it? They are nation-states, with all the prerogatives of sovereignty accorded to the United States, including surrender to ruthless barbarians. If they succumb to the Soviets, their governments which are democratically elected and represent the popular will, shall be to blame. Furthermore, the United States need not show the Europeans how to build a war machine. History proves that they are old experts at this art. 
Finally, a U.S. withdrawal would save the American taxpayer over S8 billion -a sum which our timid congressmen would be hard­
pressed to cut from our fiscal budget.  
Ken Soergel is a senior economics major. Michael senior physics major.  history Traynor  and is  a  

Quote of the day 
"A man travels the world over in search ofwhat he needs and returns home to find it." 
George Moore 
--'* 
"ie~P-~o_i~n_t~-----------------------------------------Th_u_r_sd_a_y_,s_e_p_te_m_b_e_r_I_9,_1_9_B_s_-~pa~g~e--9 
Alchohol policy has made campus drinking worse 
It ha.~ been little more than a year since the now famous alcohol policy took effect across campus. Though the memories offormer stu­dent leaders defiantly popping open a cold one in front of a national television audience may haum our minds, the hysteria and turmoil or those days are now gone. It is time to take a look at the alcohol policy from a new perspective. We no longer have to complain and worry about what thing-; might be like. We have lived through a year with the changes and now we can look at them from the point of view of people who have been there and know what it is like. 
Mike Wilkins 
here, there and back 
The goal of the administration when the new policy went into effect was to change the attitude of students toward drinking. Drink· ing, the administration noted, had become the school's favorite past-time and played an all t<x> important role in the everyday lives ofstu­dents. The alternatives, we were told, were to tc:ach and encourage students to drink rc:sponsihly; the new alcohol policy was designed to achieve that goal. 
Hut now that we have seen the policy in ac­tion, can we really say that it has changed the attitude: ofstudents toward drinking? No ques­tion it ha.~. The attitude: ofdrinking on campus ha.~ gone from had to worse. No longer is drinking seen as the only real social life at 
P.O. Box Q 
Complaints should not ruin the senior year 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing in response to an article on Sept. 9 entitled "A look at life at NO to depress the depressed" by Brian Broderick. 
We believe some kind of thank you is in or­der for Brian Broderick's personal welcome to all the incoming freshmen. Perhaps a "Stonehenge II" is an appropriate gift, or maybe Brian would rather wait around for a couple of Orange Bowl tickets (Notre Dame vs. Oklahoma). Better yet, how about a formal invitation 10 an up and coming dorm party? !low big would you like the room? Obviously, the sitftations which you prc:sented are not going to he readily improved with petty grunt and groan tactics. Complaining Is not going to make the World War II monument go away, sarca.~m will not win us the national cham­pionship and a po(>r attitude will not make a dorm room largc:r. With optimism like yours who needs pessimists? Okay, so maybe everyone does not think Ni>tre Dame is the best school on God's green earth, but we do hold the world record for musical chairs (clap, clap, clap), and where else are you going to find a campus that dumps 40 tons of sand on its outdoor basketball courts for an authentic beach party? Not too many places. Granted, "utopia" and "life at Notre Dame" are not interchangeable, but we must keep in mind that the campus and the football team are not solely ours. Who's donating that big chunk of rock and also rect:iving ';,800 of the 6,000 tickets to the University of Michigan game? A bird? A plane? No, the Almighty Alumni, who, incidentally, make many things possible for all ofus not yet prepared for green pants and Leprechaun ties. 
Thanks, Alumni. 
Welcome, Freshmen. 
Notre Dame. Now drinking is the young man's way to show he is growing up, a symbol ofthe defiance and independence that comes with advancing age. 
Sound a bit exaggerated? Think about what went on here last year. Parties were no longer held merely for the enjoyment of meeting new people and having fun with old friends. Though these may have been legitimate purposes of the average party thrower, an equally legitimate purpose was to prove that students could drink with or without the ap· · proval of the administration. Throwing or at· tending a party became a way to show that you considered yourselfgrown up enough or independent enough to .drink despite the expressed wishes ofthose in charge. Drinking became more than a social catalyst, it became a form ofrebellion. 
More evidence of this is exhibited through students' behavior at last year's An Tostal fes­tivities. Students, especially seniors, myself in· eluded, drank alcohol openly whenever we could, pushing Security and others as far as we could, daring them to take a stand against us so late in our college careers. This certainly was not an example of responsible drinking; if anything it was an irresponsible attempt to prove that they were finally getting out from under the authoritative grasp of the ad· ministration. 
The other major complaint voiced by stu· dents when the alcohol policy went into effect was that it would create a major change for the worse in the social atmosphere on campus. This, too, has turned out to be a fairly valid charge, though not nearly as accurate as students believed it would be when the claim was made. The alcohol policy certainly has made a change in the weekend ritual. Massive parties on campus are, by far, now the excep­tion rather than the rule. Through the hard work of organizations like the Student Ac­tivities Board, student government and the Office of Student Affairs, students now have many more social alternatives to drinking than ever before. Though some of these al­ternatives are permanent (invovement in student-run organizations was up last year), many of these activities have been one shot deals. How much longer can these groups keep coming up with new surprises like the Beach Party held at Stepan or the world record-breaking game of musical chairs? These were certainly smash hits with the stu­dents, but this kindof"one night only" special activity cannot be counted on to provide the backbone for Notre Dame social life. 
Closely related to this, the social atmo­sphere off campus changed just as dramati­cally last year. Popular student bars were filled with underage drinkers, everywhere from certain Five Points bars, where 18 year old girls have been rumored to gain entrance car­rying the IDs of35 year old men, to Senior Bar, where security officers watch as every person entering is checked for at least one 21 ID. Off­campus parties were equally cramped and a large portion of these crowds was the under 21 set. Allegations of increased student violence and drinking-related misbehavior last year were abundant and the high number ofdisturbances at student parties last year has 
Welcome back, Upperclassmen. 

Bestofluck to our Fightin' Irish this season. 
A yellow blinking light has much more potential than a red one. And isn't a 14 x 11 room an easy way to get acquainted with future SYR hopefuls? 
Brldgette Tompkins Lynn Ewing Farley Hall 
Petty gripes do nothing to change Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Peter Horvath's letter entitled "Greedy administration makes seniors cynical." I am a senior who is not cyni­cal. In the past three years I have come to realize how lucky and blessed I actually am to have been able to participate in a Notre Dame education. 
Perhaps it is because I did not come here starry-eyed, molded and domed over with gilded expectations from alumni parents. I came here seeking knowledge, an education. When I came here three years ago as a fresh­man, I was optimistic too, yet not blind to reality. Now, as a real honest to gosh senior I am in a real position to wail and whine and complain, and I do. But there is a certain measure ofconstructiveness in my criticism. 
There are things I do not like: I hate the new fountain. I hate the concrete monstrosity erected in front of O'Shaughnessy in place of the simplicity of Mestrovic's "Samaritan Woman." I question our investments in South Africa. I wonder about decisions made deep within the Office of Student Affairs. I hate broccoli-cheese casserole. 
But all this I do with a purpose. I do it with the intention ofgiving back some of myself to the university that helped to make me myself. I did not come here a complete human being and I do not leave here a completely fulfilled being. QJllt one thing I am leaving here with is the realization that I want to be one; and the education that I received and sought here will help me in my search for self: the selfthat will always remain part of the Notre Dame com­munity and the community that will always remain part ofmy self. 
I thank the University for the opportunity to learn and grow in such an environment. For professors who care enough to question and invite me to question. For hall staff who nurture and listen. For friends who laugh and cry and make some sense out of it all. For the administrators who allow all these connec­tions to occur. 
I thank God that there is a Notre Dame. Hor­
vath, your criticisms are valid, but please do 
not allow these complaints to ruin your final 
year at the University. Take time out to see the 
lakes, to share with friends, and realize how 
interconnected we all ar~. It is not a "greedy 
administration" making us cynical. It is rather 
our inability to see the good in the situation. 
Anne Marie Finch Farley Hall 
Appeal to right people to improve social life 
Dear Editor: 
In response to the response to the article on the depressing aspects of life at Notre Dame and the students' attitude towards Notre Dame and South Bend, we would like to en­courage negative but constructive input in­stead of discouraging it as Derwent did. Complaining in and ofitselfwill not amount to anything, but channeling your complaints to the people in charge (rectors and other ad­ministration) in an effective manner may result in changes at this university. 
The University of Notre Dame is an excel­lent school and has many positive aspects but the social life is not one of them. The aut­horities have taken away many forms of our entertainment with the new alcohol policy and have given us no alternatives to replace them. Sure there are SYRs, movies and the un­dergraduate nights at Senior Bar, but that Is not.enough. Students have nowhere to go on the weekends. After our recent trip to the Uni­versity ofMichigan, this bet has become even more obvious to us. Ashort stay in Ann Arbor gave us a taste of the opportunities that are available to the students at Michigan-not only fraternity and sorority parties, but also a variety of entertainment In the city itself. We realize this is not an equal comparison but the fact is a college education should consist of more than academics. And Notre Dame has 
the ability to provide us with slmiliar social opportunities. 
Because ofour social situation, dating is dif­ficult and therefore infrequent at Notre Dame. The main reason is not the male/female ratio. It is however, the f.lct that there arc:: few ac­tivities to attend with a date. Taking someone to every movie at the Engineering Auditorium can become very monotonous. Inviting a date over to drink in your room -fun!? 
It seems that the money the University receives is spent on anything but improving the social life -a memorial fountain? And no matter how many renovations are made on LaFortune, let's bee it, our student center is not large enough to accomodate a university of this size. 
This campus has spirit, unity,beauty and a lot of potential to develop us Into well­rounded adults. Life here cannot thrive on pure academics, we must have outlets ­parties, places to meet people, dating facilities. So do not just sit there and complain to one another. Appeal to the right people and use that spirit to change the social atmosphere at Notre Dame. 
Megan Duffy jenny Dubnlcq Lewis Hall 
l:he _ObserYer­
-c·· 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
The Observer 1s the independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the adm1n1strat1on of 811her mstitut1on. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible. Uns1gned editonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes. leners and the ln51de Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leners. is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr News Editor ...................................Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Lipo 
caused South Bend pollee to take a new, toug­her stance on off-campus parties. 
All these indications could be passed off as the students merely getting used to the new policy, though, if the policy did just one thing: decrease student drinking. But the sad bet is, the policy has not done that. Students are drinking just as much, though many arc much less open about it. Some students head for the bars or to off-campus parties, where drinking is accepted and even expected. Others drink in much smaller groups, or alone, because: the alcohol policy encourages this kind of drink­ing over drinking in large groups. The bottom line is, the policy is not working. 
Though I opposed the policy when it was initiated, I recognized the alcohol problem that existed on campus and hoped that the new policy could help solve this problem. I did not expect miracles -1 figured it would take a couple of years for the majority of people who were used to open drinking to graduate and be replaced by people who were not used to such tradition. When that hap­pened I figured the policy would begin to work. Only a year has passed and I admit the policy still needs more time to take full effect, but as I look around campus, I do not see many indications that the situation is going to get better. A year or two from now, when the policy should be solving one of our biggest problems, it could easily be contributing to make a bad problem much worse. 
Mike Wilkins is a first year law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Operations Board 
Business Manager... .... Dav1d Stephen1tch Controller.. . ....... Wilham J. H1ghducheck Advertising Manager... .. .. .... .... ... ..J1m Hagan Systems Manager.. .. .. . . . ........ Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ................... .John A. Mennell 
Founded November3, 1966 
.... __ 
I 
Thursday, September 19,1985 -page 10
Sports Briefs 
joe Piane, Notre Dame track and cross-country coach fQr 11 years, has been named as a member ofthe United States National Track Staff. As such, he is one of 40 collegiate coaches given the opportunity to coach a U.S. squad in international competition in upcoming years. Piane, the 1984 NCAA District IV coach ofthe year, was nominated for the U.S. staff by 1984 Olympic track coach Larry Ellis. -The Observer 
The SMC basketball team will hold a meeting today at 4:30p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility for anyone who is interested in trying out for the team. -The Observer 
The NO Windsurfing Club will be meeting tonight! at 7:30p.m. in the LaFortune Uttle Theatre. Anyone who is interested may attend. -The Observer 
The grad touch football captains meeting will be held today at 4 p.m. in the NVA office in the ACC. All captains must attend. -The Observer 
A kayak course is being offered by NVA on :nmr~days, beginning today. Anyone who. is interested should regtster m ad­vance at the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
A pep rally is planned for tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. Featured speakers will be Head Coach Gerry Faust, defensive line coach Rick Lantz and defensive lineman Greg Din­gens. -The Observer 
The ND-MSU football game will be broadcast live on Saturday on WVFI AM-64, beginning with "The Irish Today" at 6:05 p.m. Play-by-play will follow at 6:45 with Pete Pranica and Kelly Brothers. -The Observer 
ND/SMC Gymnastics Club members must pick up insurance forms as soon as possible at 302 Keenan, 253 Cavanaugh or 211 McCandless. -The Observer 
Interhall officials are neededfor football and 
soccer. For more information, contact the NVA office in the ACC. ­
The Observer 
Novice Boxing Tournament workouts con­tinue everyday at 4 p.m. in the boxing room in the ACC. Anyone who is interested may attend. Upperclassmen with experience are invited to workout, although they will be excluded from the novice tournament. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 13 
NFL Standings 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
Eut  
W  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
St. Louie  2  0  01.000  68  51  
Dallas  0  .500  65  40  
N.Y. Giants  0 .500  41  23  
Washington  1  0  .500  .30  57  
Philadelphia  0  2  0 .000  .  6  38  
Ci11111"81  
Chicago  2  0  01.000  58  35  
Detrojt  2  0  01.000  :54  48  
Minnesota  2­ 0  01.000  59  37  
Green Bay  1  1  0  .500  43  46  
Tampa Bay  0  2  0 .000  44  69  
WMt  
L.A. Ramo  2  0  01.000  37  22  
San Francisco  1  1  0 .500  58  44  
Manta  0  2  0  .000  43  63  
New Orleans  0  2  0  .000  50  81  
AMERICAN CONFE RENCE  
Eut  
W  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Miami  1  0  .500  53  39  
New England  0  .500  33  40  
N.Y. Jets  1  1  0  .500  42  34  
Buffalo  0  2  0 .000  12  58  
Indianapolis  0  2  0 .000  16  75  
Ci1111r81  
Cleveland  0  .500  41  34  
Houston  0  .500  39  39  
Pittsburgh  1  1  0 .500  52  20  
Cincinnati  0  2  0  .000  51  69  
WMI  
Kansas City  2  0  01.000  83  47  
s....ttle  2  0  01.000  n  59  
Denver  1  1  0  .500  t50  43  
L.A. Raiders  0  .500  51  36  
San Diego  0  .500  49  58  

Thl! Ohsat•f!r Notr<· Dam<· offin:. locatnl on thl" third floor of l.al·ortum· StudenI Crnter. acn·pt' da"ifkd adverti,ing from 'J J.m. until -1 p n1.. .\londa\· through ~rida\·. 7bl! Ohsl!rt'er Saint .\lan ·, offin·. !mated on the third floor of Haggar Colkge <.ent<·r. acceph cla"ifkd' from 12. 'IJ p m until _, p.m.. ~lun­da\· rhough frid:l\ Deadline ti1r nexr-da\ da.'-"tinh " ~ p.m. .-\11 da,_,itkd' must he prepaid. <"it her in per"m or h\ mail <.harg<·" I o <Tnl' rwr fin· chara<
Classifieds 
tt:"rs c:r day. 

NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 2S4-8117 
EXPERT TYPING 27H!534 AFTER 5:30 
Wordproceaing c.l Dolorea 277-6045 
typt111 • .,.. MllrM, 2U-4011 -you 
'-1 
LIFE IN THE SPIRIT SEMINAR offered by the Notre Dame Chariematic Prayer Group for al intereated in opening their ivetl to the action ev1111inga beginning Sept. 19. For more information cd 239­7651. 
···················· 
Club I tali a preHnll CANOU SALE!!! FIELDHOUSE MALL 
and 
LEMAN$ HALL IISMC Italian Club members pleUe contact Fred(1581) or Len(16IKI) concerning fridaya activitietl. 
AITENTION Fi,.t organizational meeting for Arll and Lett.,. Bulin-Society. 7:00p.m. Hay..·Healy room 122. Mem­btnhip duetl of $5.00 wiN be colected at thitltime. 
GORKY PAFIK!! Fri. Sept. 20 7,9:15,11:30 Eng Aud $1.50 (membera free) ljlOOIOI'ed by K of C 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: BENNEITON RUGBY SHIRT. Blue and White. Laundry lag with no. 10177 and two email elaina on front. If found pleue call Rick at 272-8588. 
REWARD!!!!! LOST TIGER'S EYE and GOLD BEADED BRACELET! OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO MEl!!! IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL STEPHANIE AT 1327. THANKS!! 
LOST: A GOLD CHAIN ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12. GREAT SENTIMEN­
TALVALUEPLEASECALLPATAT~ 
IF YOU KNOW WHERE IT IS. 
LOST on Greenfield 9111. pr. at mar/grey ming llhoee with my keya inlide! Cln't af­ford the fine, if found pi-call 1040 
-Thapka 
LOST: Man's brown rOMty, poaibly in or near CCE on Friday Sept 13. P'-call Bob ar 233-2784. 
............................................................... 
LOST: GRAY JACKET. SOMEWHERE BETWEEN HURLEY AND LAFORTUNE. KEY IN JACKET POCKET ON SILVER RING. LOST 9/16. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL3865. 
REWARD! Gold colored Seiko Quartz 
watch! P'-help me find it before I have 
to tel my parents I loet their gradu•tion 
preHnt Calf Tom at 3810 or 622 Grace 
Thanka! 
LOST: WHITE aAG WITH CLOTHES AND WALLET. DESPEJIATELY NEED WALLET. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL PHILAT288-47tl1. 
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. PLEASE CONTACT ALICE IF YOU KNOW OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. VERY IMPORTANT. 232-60611. 
LOST: White Catalina coat in or around Sanior Bar Thursday the 12th Steve-1650 
FOR RENT 
student efficiency $125.and utiitietl near N.D. 2558505; 2594943 
SEEKING FEMALE ROOMMATE AT NOTRE DAME APTS. CLOU: TO CAMPUS, INEXPENSIVE. CALL MIC. HELE AT 2113-J710. 
2 FMS NEED 3RD $100 MOft UTIL 233­7641 
GRAD ROOM;CLOSE QUIET;$100/M0.;277·2045. 
WANTED 
Need ride to O.yton any weekend. Call M81ia4174. 
.......................................... 
Domina·a Pizza has openinga tor part time delive<y persona. Muet be Ill least 18 yeara old, own car, and have valid in­aurance. Hourly wage plue commiasion. Apply in person at 816 Portage Ave. or 1835 South Bend Ave. 
WANTED:UPPERCLASSMEN TO BABYSIT 3MTH OLD INFANT IN MY HOME.KNOLLWOOD AREA. 15-20 HRS/WEEK. CALL FOR INTERVIEW: 2n-54so. 
JOBS -JOBS -JOBS -JOBS PART-TIME, ON CAMPUS NEED PHONE CALLERS TO CALl SMC ALUMNAE FOR FUNDRAISING CAMPAIGN. SEE MARTHA HEWIIT IN ROOM 303, HCC. NEED CLERICAL HELP. TOOl! 
Group (tO or more people) wanted for fund railing. All aupplietl provided. Ve<y lew hou,. required. Call319-363-7132. 
Deeperately need 4 Michigan Slate & 4 Penn Slate GA'a: Call Joe 1548 
Two ARMY G.A.s desperately needed I Will pay big $$$and USC Tix JOHN 3891 
NEED RIDE TO U OF ILL. OR IN­DIANAPOLIS AREA ANY WEEKEND. CALL KATHY 284-4395 
NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS ON 9/27 ­9/29. CALL MONICA 284-5171. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED FOR BEG. OF OCT. NOTRE DAME APTS. 112/month. CONTACT ALICE 232-6069. 
RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO Fri. 9/20 Please call Fritz 3413 
FOR All YOUR TYPING NEEDS CALL 2n-6015AFTER 5PM 
STUDENTS TO PASS OUT SAMPLES IN AREA GAO. STORES. CALL 815-485­8134 OR CONTACT FIN. AID AT NO OR SMC. 
FOR SALE 
TYPEWRITER: small portable electronic. CaR 5435 days;256-1312 eve. 
For Sale Stereo sland. new. $75 negotiable, call Mark at 2450 or 239-5303 
RECLINER-EXCELLENT CONDITION­5435 
78 CUTLASS BROUGHAM, loaded. good condition. 239-7564 deya; 616-699­7513 nights. ask for Bruce. 
For Sale 1975 Honda. 2-door. 5-speed. Call256-5175. 
1978 Chevett -low mileage-good condi­tion. 272-4884 
For Sale: 2 M.S.U tix. call1635 
TICKETS 
MICHIGAN STATE Two adjoining GENERAL ADMISSION tickate available for aerioua offers only. Cell 233-8803 and leave a mMS&ge and/or offer on machine. I will conlact you. 
I need 2 and/or 4 GA'e for Michigan Slate as soon as poesible. Call Mike at 1806 
UNCLE SAM WANTS YOUII! To Give Up lome Army G.A.'a ee AJINou can ee And Call Sam11'y at 2077 or 2078 (We offer cull. experience. end travel op­portunitiea.) 
I DESPERATELY NEED MANY MSU TICKETS CALL MIKE 1476 
I NEED TIXS FOR MICH ST & PURDUE.272-6306 
HELP! NEED MICH. ST. TICKETS BAD; CALl JOHN 1601 
NEED 3 USC OR 4 MISS. GA'S FOR CUTE IRISH PRIESTS WILL PAY ANY PRICE! CALL MARY 284-5442 
NEED 3 GA TIX TO ANY HOME GAME CALl STEPH 3534 
I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY GA'S OR 4 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT 17330R 1757 
NEED 7 MSU TIX. 284-4048 
need 2-3 tix for mich. et. call Pat 3n9 
need MSU tix $$call John at 1845 
I need 4 tlckata for ND-USC. call ­at29-8810. 
Need one MICH. ST. STUDENT TICKET. JOE2361 
WILL TRADE 2 MSU GA TIX FOR USC GA ONLY! CALL 4035 
OLD GIRLFRIEND WANTS TO GO TO MSU GAME -NEED 1 TICKET-TRADE OR $$$CALl289-4191 
Need two IIISU tickets. Can trade U.S.C. or Army tickets or money. Call John at 1126. 
HELP! DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S FOR LSU GAME CALL MIKE 2079 
BADLY NEED 3 GA'S FOR THE USC GAME CALL MIKE 2079 
PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE SELL ME YOUR TICKETS: 2 eeta of 2 GA'e Call KevinW.at41031!! 
HELP!! I NEED 2 G.A. TICKETS FOR 
N.D. va MSU. WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS! CALL JEFF AT 233-9400 DAYS/277-6376 NIGHTS. 
Soeal SENIOR need& two USC tix for MOM and DAD! Andy X21 09 
$$$Need 2 MSU GA'e $$$ Lany X11n I badly need G.A.'s for all home gamee. Call Marty at 1 050. 
I NEED 6 GA'S & 2 STUD. TIX FOR MICH. ST., PLEASE HELP ME!! I'LL BE KILLED IF I DON'T PULL THROUGH!! CALL PAT AT 3423. 
SISTER FROM MEMPHIS RIDING UP FOR OLE MISS GAME... THIS IS HER FIRST NOl:RE DAME HOME GAME... SHE'S 18... AND SHE'S READY. WILL DO ANYTHING FOR STUDENT TICKET, EVEN A G.A. WOULD MAKE HER HAPPY. CALl3457 AND ASK FOR HER SICK BIG BROTHER. 
need m1ch. state student tix. wil tra~ purdue,army, miu.• & lau call jeff 232­4578. after midnight 
OH PLEASE, OH PLEASE. OH PLEASE I NEED2 USCGA•S CALL 2841 PLEASE!'! 
How humlllatlngl Due to circumslancer beyond our control we (gasp!) we need 4 MSU ticketa. Call Steve or Tony 234­7421. 
Need five (5) GAo for Army game. Call Rod at 1768. 
HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED 4 TICK­ETS TO THE MSU GAME. IF YOU HAVE THEM. CALL JERRY AT 1654 OR TERRY AT1687. MONEY IS NO OB­JECT! 
NEED MICH. ST. TIX, CALL MIKE AT 288-5355 
I NEED 3 MICH. ST. TICKETS. $$$$ PLEASE CALL SCOIT AT 272-9518. 
I'd rather die than let my lriends miu the 
M.S.U. game. If you have GAo, call Dan at 4074. 
I need one studen1 ticket for M.S.U. Call Miriam at4174. 
NEED 2 GA & 1 STU FOR MSU-OAN 1772 
WE NEED MICH ST TIX. CALL 2937 OR 1062. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING MSU TICK· ET8 IF YOU HAVE THEM, I WANT THEMI PLEASE CALL CHRIS, 21112 ASAP. I THANK YOU, MY AIUNG GRANDMOTHER THANIC,S YOU, TOO. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSU. CALL BILL AT 234-7421. 
I NEED 2 MICH ST TIX. CALL DAVE 1586 
Need MSU tix. Call Dave x1190 
NEED 2 OR 4 GA"S FOR MICH. ST. CALL 284-4408. 
NEED 2 OR 3 PURDUE GA'S CALL GLORIA 284-4306. 
NEED MANY MSU STUDENT TIX. 289­4199. 
will trade 2 mich stfor2 purdue laura 1339 
NEED TICKETS: MSU tickets. 4 GA's and 2 Student. Pricet1 negotiabJe. Call1651. 
2 MICH ST GA'S FOR SALE. BEST OF­FER X3848 AFTER 6PM. 
I DESPERATELY NEED 2 ARMY G.A. TIX. WILLING TO PAY GOOO MONEYII IF YOU CAN HELP, CALL TIM AT 4246 ORJOHNAT1628 
1 student MSU ticket lor sale. Call John at x1083 or 239-5715. 
DESPERATE I NEED 1 MSU TICKET AND I NEED IT NOW!! WILLING TO TRADE 1 USC TICKET PLEASE HELP OUT AND SAVE MY LIFE!! CALL TOM 3175 
NEED MICH. ST TICKETS CALL:ANNEITE 284-4346 
PERSONALS j 
You reach best what you most need to 
learn. 
-Richard-Bach,IHualona 
OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.. 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
ODIN IS COMING !til 
The entire city of' Piqua, Ohio is coming out to aee NO play Michigan State. They are willing to trllde m their whole collec­tion of Slim Whitman albums to buy tick­ets. P181Ue help them. It's not often these people get out of Ohio. 
Call Amy at 23!1-5303 or 272-9519. 
Electrolysie Derma1ologiet approved Grad.Kree N.Y. Sterilized. lateet equip­ment,student ra1ee. Ladiee only. Day-eve. 291-9613 
CIAO to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. We love you all! Beth Whelpley and Kathleen Bock 
OUT TO LUNCH Fri. Sept. 20 11:30-1:30 Center for Social Concerns Vietnamese Refugee Benefit egg rolla. lried rice. More!!! 
FRESHMEN SCHMUCKS IN ROOMS 2011, 3311, 3011, 3158, 448, 4211 II!! BEWARE OF ODIN 
Need two MSU tickela. Can trade U.S.C. or Army tickete or money. Call John at 1126 
MAHERN FOR SENATE! MAHERN FOR SENATE! WANT TO HELP? CALL 2587 
BREAK! Need ride,rld.,. to Providence 
R.I. or neartly areas. Muet leave 10/17 or early Fridey.Call Antuco,late.283-3447. 
Attention Francophonea at Fran­
cophllea... · 
II y aura une reunion du Carcle Francale 
a partir de 19:30h demain wr dans le 
petit theatre a Ia Fortune. Venez tous a 
cette premiere reunion. A demain soir! 
TO WHOEVER NOW POSESSES MY SEIKO QUARTZ WATCH: I HOPE IT BECOMES AS IMPORTANT TO YOU AS IT WAS TO ME! Still Hoping, (3810) 
HAPN'N HOUSE ---Friday--­
ARRIVAOERCI MY FRIENDS!!! THANK YOU FOR EVERYTHING. HAVE FUN WHILE I'M GONE, BUT DON'T FORGET ME. I'LL NEVER FORGET YOU. SEE YOU IN '86. LOVE, LOUISE 
159ZAHMTOM KEEP YOUR PEEPERS TO YOURSELF! --FARLEY HALL 
ERIC. ROBBIE, AND DUANE: OK, I DONT DENY IT! I GUESS THIS IS WHAT HAPPENS NOW THAT I AM WIT­HOUT THE BENEFIT OF YOUR GUIDANCE AND PARENTAL IN­FLUENCE. BUT, LET GET ONE THING STRAIGHT. SHE'S FROM PENN, NOT CLAY. -YOUR EX-ROOMMATE 
To all 1ntereeted partiM,T1mmy. Matty. Mikey, Billy,Stevey 1, and Stevey 2: Welcome all to the chri"ening of 318 after the Michigan State game. 
AITENTION FIRST ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FOR ARTS AND LEITERS BUSINESS SOCIETY. 7:00 P.M. HAYE8<t!EALY IN ROOM 122 Member­ship duetl of $5.00 will be collected at thll time. 
AITENTION FIRST ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FOR ARTS AND LEITERS BUSINESS SOCIETY. 7:00 P.M. HAYE5-HEALY ROOM 122. Member­Ship duee of $5.00 will be collected at this time. 
Happy Birthday to you' Happy Birthday to you' Happy Birthday Mary Maloney' 
Happy Birthday to you! Do stop by 223 PW today fa WISh Mary a very Happy Birthday//'! 
Happy Birthday To the Hot Potato of Love MARY MALONEY To Dab Her with SoUr Cream Call2963 Love Tad and Karen 
To the baby ol our quad-Happy 19th Birthday. MARY MALONEY !! Hey guys, give Mary a call at 2963 or llop by 223 PW to wish her a happy birthday' 
TDKSAIO'a 
only 
5 lor $10 
This Thursday and Friday only 
Rock duLac 
Fira1 floor. LaFortune 
R-11 men don't want to go baki who neede "HAIR" anyway? there's 2 yre: left go lor a grad. ' 
Att1111tlon all Francophonea and Fran­cophllea••• The Carcle Franc:ela ie hoo­ting its first get together at 7:30 pm this Thur8day in the LaFortune Utile Theatre. Be sure not to miss thie first meeting ...and bring your friends. Salul! 
S.T.E.P. TUTORS NEEDED There are still opemngs for juvenile tutors on Thur8day nights. Anyone intereeted ehould attend tonight's brief orientation at the facility. Meet at library lobby at 7:00pm-tranaportation will be provided. The boya at the facility need your help! Quetltione? Call Tracy 4241 or Keri 4072. 
Thanke St. Jude. I'M NOT GIVING UP1 
Goodbye, Paul. 
SEND OUR QUAD TO NASSAU. CALL 3217 FOR DONATIONS OR STOP BY 108 KEENAN. 
AITENTION OFF-CAMPUS SEMI-FORMAL CAN­CELLED BECAUSE OF INCLEMENT WEATHER. SORRYII 
ILLUSIONS ARE FUNNY THING&­CAN•T UVE WITH "EM CAN'T UVE WITHOUT "EM. 
LIFE WITHOUT ILLUSIONS IS WHAT MAKES PANGBORN A DULL DORM! 
TODAY IS PBM'S 20TH BIRTHDAY. YES. THE WILD WOMAN IS NOW OUT OF HER TEENS1GIVE HER A CALL AT 284-5250 AND CONGRATULATE HER1 
P.S. STAY TUNED FOR THE PICTURE PAULA MAE! LOVE VA. M.C. 
The Observer Thursday, September 19, 1985 ·page 11 
St. Louta 
N-Ya<k Montreal Phtladelphia Chica.go Pinlburgh 
LoaAngelel Cinctnnatt Houlton San Diego Manta 
Baseball Standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE Eat Eat 
w L Pet. Ga w L Pet. Ga 90 55 .621 Ta<onto 91 54 .628 68 57 .607 2 NewYa<k 86 59 .593 5 77 68 .531 13 Baltlma<e 76 68 .542 12.5 70 73 .490 19 Detroit 75 70 .517 16 67 77 .465 22.5 !!Qeton 73 73 .500 18.5 46 95 .336 41 Milwaukee 63 61 .436 27.5 
WMI Cleveland 54 94 .365 36.5 
85 59 .590 WMI 78 66 .542 7 KanauCity 82 63 .566 74 70 .514 11 Califa<nia 61 64 .559 1 72 72 .500 13 Chicago 74 70 .514 7.5 
60 85 .414 25.5 Oakland 71 75 .486 11.5 
San F ranoaeo  56  88  .369  29  Seattle  69  76  .476  13  
Minneaota  68  79  .463  15  
YMterdtly'a Reeulltl  Texas  52  93  .359  30  
Plttlburgh 10. Montreal 6 ( 11 innga.)  
New Y O<k 4, Chica.go 2  YMterdey'aRMUIItl  
St. Loula 7. Phiiadelph•a 0  Minneaota 4, Texu 3  
Clnctnnat• 7, Ananta 3  Detroit 5, New Y O<k 2  
Houaton at Loa Angelea. late  Oakland 1 , Cleveland 0  
San Diego at San Franciaco, late  BaltimO<e 4, Milwaukee 2  
Boaton 13, TO<onto 1  
Callfa<nia 9, Chica.go 3  
Seattle 6. Kanaas City 0  


You Can Buy ,-his Baby A Lifetime! 
EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'IIAllE EVERY ZHOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 

10844 McKinley Hwy Osceola
' 
674-6993
255"3068 
or Clll your Travel AQent 
~IIUUI 
Ill ~mnuM 
,,1 ~,~ 1/111111111
II' ~~~ ~ •I"'" n u1 
11 e ·, ' 1111111111111111 I
,mllll IWIIIIilllllillllu. I \llllilllll!llllllr.l 

Students & Faculty 
SAVE 
• Nosignup • Start saving 
UP TO
fee. 
today by 
a/~
• Nomonthly SA ERLINE
40% 
service fee. 
at 
1-800-742-0528
ON YOUR
• Nominimum or dial direct usage ... 
1-812-232-2496
LONG 
pay only 
Monday through for what 
Friday Bam you use. 
DISTANCE 
to 5pm
PHONE 
CALLS 
~ 
~~~c 
~~ 
SAVER..LINE 
C 0 J.PO J.ATION on. lolllf I.Utaacc Wlcrcacc 
AP l'ho<o 
While Chicago Cubs centerfielder Bob Demler rnnningfor anypossible chance for a divison title. 
looks out afterfellow teammate Keith Moreland's The Cubs were mathematically eliminatedfrom the 
slide into second in a game with Montreal, he can­race in the National League East earlier this week 
not help but also watch his team slide out of the after winning the division last year. 
Knight 2 RBis back Aguilera as Mets beat Cubs, keep pace 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Ray Knight drove in two runs to pace New York to a three-run fourth inning, backing Rick Aguilera and the Mets to a 4-2 victory over the Chicago Cubs last night. 
With St. Louis also winning, the victory kept New York two games behind in the National League East. 
The Mets scored three times in the fourth against left-bander Steve Trout, 8-6, on four hits, including doubles by Keith Hernandez, Darryl Strawberry and Knight. 
Aguilera, 8-6, limited Chicago to four hits. 
Cardinals 7, Phillies 0 
PHILADELPHIA -Bob Forsch pitched a three-hitter and National League batting leader Willie McGee hit a double and two singles last night as the East Division-leading St. 
Louis Cardinals beat the Philadel­phia Phillies 7-0 for their seventh straight victory. 
It was the 17th shutout ofForsch's 11-year career and his first since Sept. 26, 1983, when he defeated Montreal with his second no-hitter. 
Forsch, 8-6, struck out four and walked three in his third complete game of the season. The loss ended a three-game winning streak for John Denny, 11-12. 
McGee, hitting .361, also batted in one run, scored another and stole a base. 
Reds 7, Braves 3 
ATLANTA-Nick Esasky drove in four runs, two of them in a four-run first inning and another on a home run in the eighth, to lead the Cincin­nati Reds to a 7-3 triumph over the Atlanta Braves last night. 
Right-hander Ron Robinson, 6-6, threw a five-hitter, giving up a pair of home runs. One of those was Dale 
Murphy's 37th on the season, a 
career high. 
But Robinson spaced the hits one to an inning as the Reds won their fourth straight. He struck out seven and walked one before being relieved by Ted Power in the ninth. 
Bo Dlaz had four hits, two ofthem doubles, and batted in one run for the Reds. 
Atlanta starter Len Barker, 2-9, took the loss. 
Pirates 10, Expos 6 
MONTREAL -Tony Pena hit a. three-run homer in the IIth Inning' last night to lead the Pittsburgh Pirates to a I 0-6 National League vic­tory over the Montreal Expos. 
Pena, who drove In four runs In all, lined his 1Oth homer on the first pitch from Bert Roberge, 3-2. The Pirates had gone ahead In their half of the 11th on Sid Bream's double, then Pena broke it open. 
Don Robinson, '5-11, worked four innings for the victory. 
McEnroe defeats Vijay Armitraj in first-round Volvo Tourney play 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -John McEnroe overpowered Vijay Armitraj, smack­ing in five services aces, to take a 6-2, 6-0 victory last night in the $315,000 Volvo Tennis-Los Angeles Men's Tournament. 
McEnroe, the tournament's top seed, completely dominated the first-round match at the Los Angeles Tennis Center, with Armitraj win­ning just the first game and the fifth game ofthe opening set. 
•
SObering Advice Think BefOre You Drink BefOre You Drive
cansavealife 
Punctuating his dominance in the first set, McEnroe won the deciding game. at love and closed it out with an ace. 
The second set was all McEnroe in a match that lasted 55 minutes.. 
In an afternoon match, third­seeded Scott Davis required just 53 minutes to down Bud Schultz 6-2, 6­2 in a second-round match. 
johan Kriek, the No. 4 seed, also won his match, but he had to survive a challenge by Tim Wilkison in a match that lasted two hours, 24 minutes. r 
Kriek, South African-born but now a U.S. citizen, escaJ>ed with a 6­7, 7-6, 6-2 victory over Wilkison on the fast concrete surface at the Los Angeles Tennis Center. 
Ramesh Krishnan of India defeated Larry Stefankl 6-4, 6-1 in the final second round match of the 
day. 
In a first-round match, Brad Gil­bert beat Marcel Freeman 7-6, 6-2. 
The Observer Thursday, September 19, 1985-page 12 
'· 
Baltimore third baseman Wayne Gross cannot elude tbe tag ofDetroit's Kirk Gibson in Monday 
Blue Jays lose, 13-1 
Niekro fails in bid for 300th win 
Mariners 6, Royals 0  
DETROIT -Phil Niekro failed in through the first six innings. He  KANSAS CITY -Bill Swift, Roy  
his second attempt to win his 300th struck out five and walked none in  Thomas and Ed Nunez combined on  
career game as Detroit's Nelson Sim­his fifth complete game of the  a three-hitter as the Seattle Mariners  
mons and Bob Melvin both season. Toronto scored its only run  continued their mastery over the  
delivered run-scoring singles in the in the seventh on Ron Shepherd's  Kansas City Royals with a 6-0 victory  
sixth inning last night that carried double and Lou Thornton's single.  last night.  
the Tigers over the New York The Red Sox scored three runs in  The Royals began the night with a  
Yankees 5-2. • the second inning off Jim Clancy, 7­ two-game lead over second-place  
New York, which started the night 5.  California in the American League  
five games behind the American League East-leading Toronto Blue Orioles 4, Brewers 2  West. Fifth-place Seattle, which shut out  
jays, lost its sixth straight game. That  Kansas City 7-0 on Tuesday, ex­ 
is the longest losing streak for the BALTIMORE -Fred Lynn's solo  tended the Royals' scoreless-inning  
Yankees this season. home run capped Baltimore's two­ string to 26. Seattle has beaten  
The 46-year-old Niekro was trying run rally in the sixth inning as the  Kansas City in eight of nine games  
to become the 18th 300-game win­Orioles edged the Milwaukee  this season, including the first three  
ner in baseball history. He lost to Brewers 4-2 in a battle ofhomers last  in this four-game series.  
Toronto 3-2 last Friday in his first try night.  Swift gave up one hit and struck  
to reach the milestone. Paul Molitor's leadoff homer in  out three before being replaced by  
Niekro, 15-11, pitched eight in­the top of the inning, his ninth, had  Thomas at the start of the fourth.  
nings and gave up five earned runs given the Brewers a 2-1 lead before  The Mariners said Swift left because  
on 11 hits. He struck out five and the Orioles retaliated.  ofa groin strain suffered in the third.  
walked four. Cal Ripken, Jr., opened the win­ Thomas, 7-0, gave up one hit in 4  
Mickey Mahler, 1-2, pitched 7 2/3 ning rally with a double, moved to  2/3 innings and Nunez allowed one  
scoreless innings ofone-hit relief for third on a passed ball by Charlie  hits the rest ofthe way.  
the victory. Moore and scored the tying run on  The Mariners, who won for the  
Eddie Murray's groundout. Red Sox 13,. Blue Jays 1 Lynn ran the count to 3-2 against  ninth time in their last 12 games, pinned the loss on Mark Gubicza,  
Tim Leary, 1-1, before hitting his  13-8, who walked six before being  
BOSTON -Rich Gedman hit for 21st home run of the season. It was  relieved by Mark Huismann with  
the cycle and drove in seven runs to Lynn's second homer in two games  two on and no out in the third.  
lead an 18-hit explosion, and Al Nip­after missing 21 ~ontests with a torn per scattered six hits last night as the ankle ligament.  Angels 9, White Sox 3  
Boston Red Sox crushed the Scott McGregor, 13-12, pitched a  
Toronto Bluejays 13-1. six-hitter for his third straight vic­ CHICAGO -Gary Pettis had three  
Despite the loss, the Blue jays tory.  hits, and Reggie jackson and Dick  
remained five games ahead of second-place New York. Oakland 1, Cleveland 0  Schofield each drove in two runs with two hits last night to lead the  
The Red Sox swept the two-game  California Angels over the Chicago  
series from Toronto and won all six CLEVELAND -Pinch-hitter Dave  White Sox 9-3.  
games against the Bluejays played in Collins singled home the game's  The victory, coupled with Kansas  
Boston this season. only run in the eighth inning and  City's 6-0 loss to Seattle, moved the  
Gedman hit a solo homer, his 18th jose Rijo and jay Howell combined  Angels to within one game over the  
of the year, in the third inning, a on a seven-hitter last night as the  American League West-leading  
three-run triple in the fourth, a run­Oakland A's nipped the Cleveland  Royals.  
scoring infield single in the fifth that Indians 1-0.  Don Sutton, obtained in a trade  
made it 10-0 and a two-run double in With one out in the eighth, rookie  with Oakland on Sept. 10, earned his  
the seventh. Jose Canseco singled off Cleveland  second victory in two decisions  
Gedman became the first Boston starter Don Schulze, 3-9. Canseco  with the Angels. Sutton is 15-8.  
player to hit for the cycle since took second on a groundout and  California jumped on Gene Nel­ 
Dwight Evans did it on June 28, then Collins, batting for Mike Gal­ son, 9-10, for two runs in the second  
1984. lego, lined a 3-0 pitch to right for his  inning. After hitting Jackson with a  
Wade Boggs had four hits, all RBI single.  pitch to start the inning, Nelson  
•  singles, in five at-bats and raised his Rijo, 4-3, yielded seven hits in major league-leading average to seven innings. He struck out seven  loaded the bases with a walk to Bobby Grieb and an infield single by  
. 3 72. Jim Rice and Bill Buckner each and walked two. Howell retired the  Bob Boone .  
added three hits for Boston, which final six Cleveland batters for his  Nelson then issued another walk  
shelled six pitchers. 26th save.  to Schofield that forced home jack­ 
Nipper, 9-11, retired Toronto's Oakland won for just the third  son and Pettis followed with an RBI  
first 11 batters and faced just 19 time in its last 14 games.  infield single.  


Nihilator races Friday 
Associated Press great horse to knock Nihilator ­
which haS won 24 of26 career starts 
DELAWARE, Ohio -No one has -out ofthe winner's circle. ever questioned the talent, the Dick Richardson Jr., trainer and bloodlines, the handlers or the driver of Marauder, which defeated speed of Nihilator. The only doubt Nihilator in the first heat at the that anyone has ever had about the Adios, says: "What's he lost? Two fastest pacer ofall time is whether he races in his career? Of course he's could adapt to a half-mile track. the horse to beat. But I don't think 
Tomorrow afternoon, before a anyone's afraid of him. At least I capacity crowd and 13 other horses, know I'm not." Nihilator will attempt to turn those question marks into exclamation Nihilator, which has been synd­
marks in the 40th edition of the icated for $19.2 million and insured Little Brown Jugat Delaware County for more than S30 million, ·will be Fairgrounds. starting from the inside post in the 
A topflight field, which includes first elimination. The horse thought the last horse to defeat the favorite, to be his chief threat, stablemate Marauder, will hit the track in the Chairman-of-the-board, was 13th and 14th races of the day. The scratched on the eve of the race be­top four finishers in each of two cause ofa high temperature. heats return in the 17th race on the Other horses in the first heat in­way to deciding the victor in the clude Destination First, Dignatarian, third jewel ofpacing's Triple Crown. Meadow Ro Mar, Broadway Express 
No less than legendary horseman and Niafirst. Billy Haughton, the trainer of The second heat, race No. 14, will Nihilator and the past winner offive feature Marauder, Pershing Square, Brown Jugs, says: "I think he's the Handsome Sum, Birmingham best I've ever seen. I've never had a Hanover, Just Jason, Witsends horse who could do the things he Wizard and Cervantes Osborne. cando." Marauder has-the inside lane. 
Even the opposition says that it Post time for the first race is 11 will take a great race by another a.m., with a possible 21 heats on tap. 
-----------I 
The Student Activities Board presents 
I 
JIMMY STILL 
Renowned Ventriloquist and 
I 
I 
I
MAX . 
I I
Tickets available at SAB Record Stor~ I 
friday, September 20 $2ND/SMC l 
8:30 Washington Hall $4 Gen. Admission l
L ____ _ 
---j
-
Da yau want the fame af ~ a PICASSO and the respect~ afa DR VINCI? 
DESIGN--­
Camputer l:iraphics 
Far th• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD' PUBLICITY COMMISSION 
Call Meegan at 7 605 for info 
........-.-••••, ..............,••.,••rl'...... 

TIPPECANOE 
PLACE® 
RESTAURANT 

620 W. Washington. South Bend. 234-9077 Reservations available. 
Tippecanoe Place Restaurant will be serving dinner from 2:00pm until 11:OOpm on Saturday, September 21st. 
Reservations Recommended 
----------------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, September 19, 1985 -page 13 
Size not the only factor as Holmes, Spinks square off 
A8aoc:lated Press 
i· 
LAS ·VEGAS, Nev. -The difference in size ·might not be the determining factor when Larry Holmes fights Michael Spinks Saturday night, says trainer Eddie Futch. 
"There are other factors involved such as styles and attitude," says Futch, who has trained both men. 
But the veteran trainer will be in neither corner when Holmes defends the •:International Boxing Federation heavyweight title against Spinks, the light heavyweight cham­pion. 
Richie Giachetti is back working with Holmes for the first time since Holmes outpointed Trevor Berbick in 191i I. Nelson Bryson will be in Spinks' corner for the scheduled 1 5­round bout, which will be televised by HBO from the: Riviera Hotel and Casino. 
Futch declined to pick a winner, but said, "I don't think it will go the distance." He also thinks the 6-1 odds favoring Holmes "are out of line." 
"You have to give the smaller man a shot," Futch said yesterday by telephone from Reno, Nev., where he is preparing former triple cham­pion Alexis Arguello for a comeback fight againt Francisco Roche Oct. 1 at Reno. 
"Spink.'i is a good banger, although he will be fighting a heavyweight," Futch said. "Power has to be con­sidered and Michael has power in either hand." 
"Small men like Rocky Marciano and Floyd Patterson were heavyweight champions," Futch noted. "Patterson was really a light heavyweight." 
The ";-I 0 Marciano weighed from 
Ili4 to 189 pounds in seven title 
fights while the 6-0 Patterson weighed from 189 to 19% pounds for 11 title matches. Both men punched with power. 
The 6-2 Spinks won't tell reporters what he weighs or what he thinks he will weigh for the fight, but estimates run from 185 to 195 pounds. The light heavyweight limit is 1 75 pounds. 
Holmes, who is 6-3, expects to weigh about 220 pounds. 
"If he carries too much weight, it will take away some of his snap," Futch said. 
Spinks can box much better than he generally is given credit for,' Futch said. 
"He's awkward," the trainer said. "There's no question about it. That's why a lot of people dismiss his ability. He's unorthodox. Sometimes he doesn't know what to do." 
That could work in Spinks's favor by keeping Holmes off balance, Futch added. 
"Larry will fight his normal style," Futch said. That is using his excel­lent left jab, to set up his right while trying to dictate the tempo of the fight. 
Both fighters will be trying to protect unbeaten records while trying to make boxing history. 
The 29-year-old Spinks, who has a 27-0 record, with 19 knockouts, could become the first man to win the light heavyweight title, then go on to become a heavyweight cham­pion. 
Holmes, 35, who has 34 knock­outs, will be trying to tie Marciano's 49-0 record. Marciano is the only the only heavyweight champion to retire unbeaten and stay retired. Holmes has said he wants to retire with a 50-0 mark. 
Both fighters held light workouts yesterday and attended a final joint news conference. 


SCOPE US OUT 
FOR ALL YOUR EYE CARE NEEDS­
COMPLETE EXAMS 
contacts. glasses ND/SMC students, Faculty and Staff Show Your I.D. and Receive 20 ·;.OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
Excluding Specials 
• ProfessionalVtSion ASSOC1ATES 
113511.1......... 1341,... 
277·1111 234-2400 South ot u.s. 23 Mame·, Shopp/lg Con1w 
Ewing 
continued/rom page 16 
Training camp for the Knicks begins a week from Saturday. 
"I feel great and I'm glad it's over," Ewing said. "I can get down to what I do best and that's playing ball. I left negotiations to my lawyers because I didn't want to pressure them. I spent my summer preparing myself to play." 
The previous high NBA rookie salaries, to Ralph Sampson and Akeem Olajuwon of the Houston Rockets, were for close to U million apiece the last two years. 
The only other rookies in American sports who signed con­tracts that may have been worth more than Ewing's were three foot­ball quarterbacks. Steve Young signed a multi-year pact worth an es­timated $40 million with Los An­geles of the United States Football League, John Elway a five-year con­tract worth about n million each season with the National Football League's Denver Broncos, and Bernie Kosar a four-year contract with the Cleveland Browns of the NFL worth about $1.4 million each year. 
Knicks Coach Hubie Brown said Ewing will play both center and power forward for the Knicks, rotat· ing at those positions with Bill Cartwright, who was injured all last season, and Pat Cummings. 
Tennis 
continuedfrompage 16 
her and trying some dltterent com· binations, so that we'll be pretty well set for the spring season. Our ser­ving has been excellent so far (with a near 80 percent first-serve percentage against DePaul) and the: girls' effort has been great also." 
Today's match against Illinois­Chicago begins at 3:30 p.m. on the Courtney Courts. Gelfman urged people to get there early because she doesn't expect it to last very long. Tuesday's match against DePaul lasted less than two hours. 
Tailgate Time!! 
The Date: September 21, 1985 The Game: Notre Dame vs. Michigan State The Place: Saint Mary's College campus 
on the field southeast of Madeleva Hall 

The Time: Three hours prior to kickoff 
Bring your family, friends and football cheer! Join the Saint Mary's College alumnae, faculty and students for a "pregame party." We'll provide the hot dogs -you supply the kitchen sink ... don't miss It! We're expecting you. 
Co-Sponsored by the 
Saint Mary's College 
Student Government and Alumnae Association 
Bri~fs 
continuedfrompage 10 
A karate course is being offered by NVA on Mondays and Wednesdays beginning Monday. Anyone who is interested should contact the NVA office for more information. -The Observer 
lnnertube water polo entries will be ac­
cepted until tomorrow at the NVA office in the ACC. ·The Observer 
An ultimate frisbee tournament is being 
sponsored by NVA. The deadline for submitting I 0-player rosters is Tuesday in the NVA office. For more Information, call 239-6100. ­
The Observer 
The Domer Runs are coming on Saturday, 
Oct. 5. The deadline for entries for the three-and six-mile events is 
Friday, Sept. 27, in the NVA office in the: ACC. For more: information, 
call 239-6100. -The Observer 
-
.. 
Thursday, September 19, 1985 -page 14
The Observer 
Senior tailback 
Carter has overcome adversity 
Playing both tailback and defensive than ready to get back into it though "Be prepared ... that's how I go back for Ursuline High School in when spring practice rolled around. about things," said Carter. I set high Youngstown, Ohio, Carter rushed goals for myselfand take steps to ac­for over 600 yards in his senior year 
hieve them. You never know what despite an ankle injury. He also was life will deal you, so be ready." named to all-state teams and 
With the unexpected loss of tail­received an honorable mention as a back Alonzo Jefferson this pastmember of the Adidas/Scholastic weekend, Carter has found himselfCoaches All-American team. 
in a better position on the depth charts -an attained status he wouldWhen it came time for him to have liked to achieve under betterdecide on a college to attend, one circumstances.
prevailing thought was on his mind. 
"Alonzo is a fantastic athlete and a"I probably could have gone to great competitor," states Carter. "Itmany places to play football," says is rough to lose someone like him. Ithe Cavanaugh Hall resident. "But I was just shocked by the whole in­wanted something more for myself jury. It gives me mixed feelingsbesides football. When I visited one when I think about it. I just w-ant toschool down South it was the dead help any way I can."
t ofwinter in Ohio. I got off the plane ~ to 85 degree weather and sunshine. 
Due to his leg injury in 1983, As I was leaving, there was a light 
Carter could be granted an extra rain and a rainbow was off in the 
season of eligibility. He also has 
! 
t horizon. I thought, this was great. aspirations for Law School after But when I came back home my dad Ray Carter 
spending last summer as an intern at just said to me, 'Remember, all that 
the prosecuting attorney's office in glitters is not gold.' I looked at the "It was hard to work my way back South Bend. 
graduation rate of that school and up -I think I was ninth on the depth "I think I want another shot atI the rate here, and that sealed it for chart," explained Carter. "But my football," says Carter. "And I want to me." goal was to show the coaches that I prepare myself for graduate school. could run with that ball. And Iwasn't My parents always taught me to have Entering Notre Dame in the fall of about to quit trying." a certain amount of self-pride in 1982, Carter found himself sur­Despite his hard work and effort, every aspect in life and I have always rounded with talent and found him­Carter saw minimal playing time in tried to do that. I'm not a perfec­self competing with the likes of 1984. He made game appearances tionist but I always strive to be the 
Allen Pinkett. But after a week of against both Colorado and Penn best that I can possibly be." 
Junior captain 
Drahota's influence key for Belles 
By PAMELA CUSICK "I feel I am a stronger singles Drahota, who taught tennis this Sports Writer player and am much more confident summer at the Saint Mary's sports with it," Drahota says. "So far, I've camps and worked at a tennis club in The Saint Mary's tennis team won all NAIA singles matches I've her hometown, found Saint Mary's 
played Goshen College on Tuesday played this year. I think we have a to be a natural choice for her, as she and fell short of obtaining a victory good chance to go to Nationals. We followed a long line of family mem­by a 5-4 score. One of the Belles' are showing improvements al­bers to South Bend. major contributions came from Kim ready." 
"I am the youngest in a family Drahota, a junior captain and the 
where four brothers and sisters at­only returning member from last 
tended Notre Dame and Saint year's successful team. 
Mary's," she explains. "I am com­Belles coach Debbie Laverie 
fortable at Saint Mary's because ofits believes Drahota's influence on the good educational opportunities." Saint Mary's team is important. Overall, the junior believes the 
"Kim inspires the other girls on Belles should do well this year as the team to look up to her since she they will be hoping to see post­is the only upperclassman," says season tournament action on the Laverie. 
strength of a strong effort and good Against Goshen, Drahota came coaching. from. behind with partner Shawn 
"The team is definitely improving, and by the time Districts come 
• 
Boyd at No. 3 doubles to win their match in three sets, 2-6, 6-4, and 6-4. around, we may have an opportunity She also disposed ofher opponent in to go to Nationals," says the 
3000 IN.STOCK
singles action, winning 6-7, 6-4, 6-2. Government-History double major. Dire Straits, Billy Joel
• 
"It was hard to lose the match 5-4, &more 
but it was an encouraging sign to see "I feel that Debbie Laverie is a Kim Drahota and Shawn Boyd win in good coach, even though this is her three sets," comments Laverie. "Kim KimDrahota first year, simply because she has a 
IDIROrtS 
is playing and working much harder lot of experience,'? Drahota con­this year." Drahota feels her leadership tinues. "I am excited about being 
Track's has tOO's 
Drahota started playing com­qualities as well as her strong back­captain and am pleased with how I petitive tennis in her sophomore round in tennis tournaments gained am doing this year." of Imports in stock year at Duchesne Academy in from playing on her high school The Belles' NAIA record currently and will be glad to Omaha, Neb. At Duchesne, she held team contribute to her overall is at I-4, and tomorrow the team will 
special order what
her own at No. 2 doubles and No. 3 success at No. 3 singles and doubles play Anderson College at 3 p.m. at singles. for the Saint Mary's squad. the Angela courts. you need from our catalogue Another satisfied customer
Rosen takes control of S.F. Giants 
Rosen said he also will hire Hob Ken­he will have financial respon­
Asaodated Press YOU CAN WALKTO TRACKS 
nedy, his former assistant with the sibilities that Haller didn't have. Hal­
At the comer ofEdison Rd & St. Rd. 23
Houston Astros. ler, a former Giants catcher who -SAN FRANCISCO-AI Rosen put 
Just across from the King's Cellar
the last-place San Francisco Giants "1986 will be a year when the held the titles of vice president and on notice yesterday that none of Giants will be competitive,'' Rosen general manager, was not offered their jobs are safe and that changes said. "We promise that. There will another job with the club. I 
will be coming as he takes on the be changes made. I'm not afraid to I challenge of turning the club change." Club owner Bob Lurie said Haller 
I 10 to 9 daily 1631 E. Edison
' 
.. 
around. will seek a job as a field manager el­I noon to 6 Sunday South Bend 
Rosen's first move as president Power, pitching and speed will be sewhere and that Davenport will I and general manager, replacing Tom emphasized in trades the Giants talk with Rosen about taking another I Haller, was to name former Detroit make, he said. job with the Giants. Davenport left I pitching coach Roger Craig as field Rosen said he will have more aut­with a 56-88 record in his only I INDIANA'S FINEST DISCOUNT RECORD STORE 
maruiger, replacing Jim Davenport. hority to shape the Giants because season as a manager. 
------------------------------· 
By TRISH SULLIVAN freshmen camp the coaches State and speciality team ap-Sports Writer switched Carter to defensive back. pearances in the Aloha Bowl. At the 
Thursday-754 shots of mellon balls all night
He remained at that position for half conclusion of this spring's practice, It is said that adversity builds ofthe year until injuries on the team Carter was awarded a Hering Award 
* 
character. If this axom holds true made for his switch back to tailback. for his overall improvement and Frl & Sat 75t shots of rootbeer all night * then Ray Carter certainly has built a Carter remained at tailback until contributions to the team. * wealth of character in his four years the 1983 season during which he Although he has not wracked up Kinetics , * 
Thun, Fri. and Sat. · :
at Notre Dame. suffered a leg injury. The injury many statistics for the Irish, this 5­Carter entered Notre Dame a caused him to watch the action that II, I75-pound, Ohio native always live at Chips DANCING EVEIIY NIGHT lt­highly sought-after commodity. year from the sidelines. Hewas more takes things like a Boy Scout. 
*
********************************* 


Tonight:Attention Senior Cl ess Mug Club!!! Bring Your Mug, 811 refills $ 1.00 !!!!!!! 
--~-------~---------­
Today_____________________Th_u_r_s_d_ay_,_s_e_p_te_m_b_e_r_19_,_1_9_8_5_·_p_a_g_e_1_5 
Bloom County 
OKIJY/ OKAY/ 
\ 
Zeto 

I'M GCJ.NG TV HAVE" TO CPU. THE' FEOR-E' WHo FVT KID's FACES ON 

MILK CARIDNS AND 
GIVE' THEM I.(OUR 
ADDRE"SS! ••• HE'LLD?•••YOU THERE? 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Luce's pub­lication 
5 Tic 10 Curve 14 Fusses 15 City near 
Milan 16 Ancient 
theaters 17 Enclosures 18 Pastry chef's 
specialty 19 Rorie 20 Founded: abbr. 21 Flacks 23 Kind of 
hormone 25 Swiss city 26 Small garment 27 Neighborly 32 A medium 34 Chastise a 
child 35 Beam 36 Lacking polish 37 Poorer 38 Knowledge 
handed down 39 Shoe width 40 Takes on 41 Puts on 
freight 42 Bible book 44 Remain 
unsettled 45 Crude metal 46 Observes 49 X·ray expert 54 Hydrocarbon 
suffix 55 Homeric 56 Heron 57 Org. 58 Thrall of 
long ago 59 Piece of cake 60 Amaze 
61 Morse messages 28 -media 62 Passover feast 29 Programs 63 Cruising 30 Suet 
31 Inspects 
DOWN 32-school 
1 Records 33 Penitent one 
2 That Is, 34 Tree related 
to Caesar to the apple 
3 S.A. capital 37 Radio 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
PIIRPON Mt:. MAY I · 1 COMfJ IN IINP Hf!N& NO/ &0 ' 111?01/NP YOI/1{ AWAY, YO!} 
t!VIN& flJOM fOR Vl/t..fl/f?ES / 7116 NfJXT 1 56Vff?fl{.. I I Wt:fJKS :d I I 
"' [ 
Kevin Walsh 



Campus 
•12:15 
P.M. -Labor Research Group Lecture, "Should the Church Tell Workers to Join Unions? Thoughts on the Bishops' Let­ter", Prof. james Gross, Cornell University, In­dustrial and Labor Relations School, Center for Social Concerns, Room 124 

•4:00 
P.M. -Lecture, Nonh American Cat­holicism: From Solitude to Solidarity, Otto Maduro, Maryknoll, New York, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute and Department ofSociology 

•6:30 
P.M. -Academic, Notre Dame in ln­nsbruck Program, Dr. Albert Wimmer, Notre Dame, New Orleans Room, LaFortune Student Center, Sponsored by Foreign Study Programs 

•7:00 
P.M. · Thursday Night FUm Series, "Death By Hanging", Loft 

•7:00 
P.M. -Reception/Presentation for all Chemical, Mechanical and Electrical En­gineering Seniors, Accuray Corporation, Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 



©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 
4 Double curve 5 Morale 6 Measured 7 Rara ­8 Sloth and 
envy 9 Place for 
ammo 10 Grocery store 11 Idyllic spot 12 Salamander 13 "-of Wine 
and Roses" 21 P.M. word 22 Sloppy debris 24 M. Coty 27 "-mol, le 
deluge" 
Tuesday's Solution 

38 Anderson 48 Medicinal 
ofTV shrub 40 Sandwich type 49 Hollow stem 41 Latvian 50 Lhasa­43 Utters 51 Force 44 Mural medium 52 Wolf's look 46 Relative 53 Network 47 Follow 57 Quick -flash 
Igor goes shopping 
•7:00 
P.M.-Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Commoner Room, Planner Hall, Sponsored by Fellowship ofChristian Athletes 

•7:00 
P.M. -9:00 P.M. -Workshop, Law School Personal Statement Workshop, Prof. Marullo, University of Notre Dame, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame/St. Mary's Pre-Law Society 

•7:00, 
9:30 P.M. AND 12:00 -SAB FUm, "Yentl", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1.50 

•7:00 
P.M. and 9:30 P.M -FUm, Peter Sellers Film Series: "Dr. Strangelove", Annenberg Auditorium, Student Liaison Committee ofthe Snite Museum ofArt, S I. 50 

•7:30 
P.M. -Seminar, "Life in the Spirit Semi­nar", Log Chapel, Sponsored by Notre Dame Charismatic Prayer Group 

•7:30 
P.M. -Organizational Meeting, Spanish Club, 2nd Floor LaFortune, Sponsored by Spanish Club 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Chicken Almandine Ham & Broccoli Roll Ups Mushroom Stroganoff Meatball Grinder 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
6:~0P.M.  16  MASH  
22  Three's·Company  
7:00P.M.  16  Bill Cosby Show  
22  Magnum P.l.  
28  NFL Football Special: Chicago at  
Minnesota  
7:30P.M.  16  Family Ties  
8:00P.M.  16  Cheers  
22  Simon and Simon  
34  A Walk Through the 20th Cen­ 
tury: "The Image Maker"  
8:30P.M.  16  Night Court  
46  Ught for Uvlng  
9:00P.M.  16  Hlll Street Blues  
22  Hometown  
34  Mystery: "Rumpole and the Old  
Boy Net"  

Saint Mary's  
Roast BeefAu Jus  
BeefTaco  
Vegetarian Quiche  
Italian Sausage  
46  Lc:sca Alive  
10:00 P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Masterpiece Theater: "The Irish  
R.M."  
46  Manna for Modern Man  
10:30 P.M.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Columbo/New Avengers  
28  ABC News Nlghtllne  
11:00 P.M.  28  Eye on Hollywood  
34  Film Du Jour: "The Emperor  
Jones"  
46  Praise the Lord  
11:30 P.M.  16  Late Night with David Letter­ 
man  
12:30 A.M.  16  Allin the Family  
1 :00 A.M.  22  Nighrwatch  
2:00A.M.  46  Independent Network News  


Thursday, September 19, 1985-page 16
S~orts 
Lindenfeld: It's back to basics now after one-sided 5-lloss to Toledo 
ByKEVIN HERBERT outside of the circle need a lot of another goal six minutes later, Sports Writer work also." leading at the half, 3·1. Seveh minutes into yesterday's In the second half, Toledo scored 
Yesterday afternoon, a talented match, the Rockets notched the first two more goals, at the 12 and 20 Toledo squad defeated the Notre tally of the game. Kathy Hudson minute marks, to complete a 5·1 vic· Dame field hockey team by a score streaked up the middle and slid the tory over the Irish. of5·1. ball past Gallagher giving Toledo an The loss puts the Notre Dame 
The Irish were dominated throug· early lead. season record at 1-2 after losing to bout the contest as is evidenced by Ball State and downing the Michigan the score and shots on goal. Toledo Five minutes later, however, Beth Wolverines. · notched 28 shots at Notre Dame Bisignano tied the game for the Irish Last season, the Irish got off to a goaltender Patti Gallagher while the with an assist from Benet Deberry. slow 0·1·1 start before turning Irish countered with 13. Last season, Bisignano and DeBerry things around, winning fifteen of 
teamed up for seven goals and nine their next twenty to finish the 
"It's back to basics for us" com· assists. season with a 15·5-2ledger. mented Notre Dame coach Jill lin· Notre Dame field hockey fans ar:e denfeld. "We need a lot more work From that point on, however, hoping that Undenfeld and her with receiving the ball on the run. Toledo dominated the game. The squad can do the same this year. The We also have to pass more ac­Rockets kept the pressure and the season continues Sunday afternoon curately." ball on the Irish side ofthe field. at I :30 and Monday at 4:00 when 
Undenfeld was also upset with The Rockets, however, regained Notre Dame will be home at Cartier her team's defensive game, "Our the lead 21-minutes into the contest. Field to take on Northern Illinois marking skills in the circle and Toledo then closed out the halfwith and Lake Forest. 
Women's tennis team looking for a challenge after three easy matches 
By EDJORDANICH powers USC, UCLA and SMU, these her varsity teamates, Mary Colligan, Sports Writer are good tennis teams nonetheless. Michele Dasso, Isobel O'Brien, "Our competition will get a little JoAnne Biafore and Tammy Sdupidt, 
Undefeated, untied ~d untested. better and so will we," said Gelfman. have not lost' a set this fall. 
This kind of start would be quite "We want to win our conference "The fall is a time to get the kinks welcome for most tennis teams. For out and get rid of the bad habits," Michele Gelfman's Notre Dame said Gelfman. "We're getting some women's tennis team, tliis 'fall doubles partners used to one anot· season's perfect beginning has not been a surprise, but an expected 
see TENNIS, page 13 springboard for tougher competi· tion and a difficult spring se~n. 
; 
; 
Ewing signs contract with Knicks 
Following blowouts ·against Evansville and Marquette tfn days ago and a 9·0 blitz over DePaul on 
to become richest NBA rookie ever
Tuesday, the Irish enter today's match with Illinois-Chicago in need Associated Press But at a Madison Square Garden NCAA championship Tournament of a challenge. According to news conference afiR.ouncing the three times, winning the title in Gelfman, they are not likely to get NEW YORK · Patrick Ewing, signing, Donald Dell, chairman of 1984. He averaged 14.6 points and one. saying he is not St. Patrick let alone a ProServ, said Ewing "will be the 9.2 rebounds a game as a senior. 
"We really haven't played franchise savior, signed a contract highest-paid rookie ever in the "I have nothing to be worried anybody yet," said Gelfman, "andwe yesterday with the New York Knicks NBA." about," said Ewing. "All I can do is should beat Illinois-Chicagowithout that makes him the highest-paid Ewing, regarded as the best play as hard as I can. I don't consider much trouble. The girls have (the North Star Conference) tourna· rookie ever in pro basketball and defensive center to come out ofcol­myself a savior. I'm not jesus, or worked very hard and are playing ment without losing a set, and we one of the richest ever in profes· lege since Bill Russell in the 1950s, even St. Patrick/' .. well right now. I think they've really should. All our players, singles sional sports. said he felt no pressure to turn worked harder than they ever have, and doubles, will be seeded first in The value and length of the con· around the Knicks' fortunes by him· Dave DeBusschere, the Knicks' and hopefully we'll continue this this tournament." tract were not disclosed by Ewing, self. New York finished 24-58 last vice president i~ charge of basket· success." The women's tennis format con· the Knicks or ProServ Inc., the year and earned the right to draft ball operations, called the signing "a 
The schedule gets tougher this sists of nine matches, six singles and Washington-based agency that Ewing No. 1 in the National Basket· significant day in the history of New weekend when the Irish travel to three doubles. Thus far, Susie Pan· handled the negotiations for the 7· ball Association's June draft by win· York. We all look forward to'seeing Western Illinois and Iowa, before ther has continued her dominance foot center from Georgetown Uni· ning a lottery among the seven the great attitude and determipation returning home to host Butler Mon· at No. 1 singles where she earned versity. Estimates ranged from five worst teams in the NBA. of this young man." · day afternoon. While these teams her the team's most valuable player to seven years and from n 2 million In his four years at Georgetown, 
see EWING, page 13are not quite the caliber ofperennial award last year. Panther, along with to $15 million. the Hoyas went to the finals of the 


Francisco's a team player, but a tailback at heart 
Last Sunday, the day after Notre Dame's 20·12 loss to Michigan, Hiawatha Francisco made a homecoming of sorts. Unfortunately for the Irish, it took a season-ending injury to Alonzo Jefferson to make it possible, but Fran­cisco is once again a Notre Dame tailback. 
"I think I'll be ready to play in a game in about a week," says Francisco. "Right now everything is going well. The holes are opening up, the timing is coming back and things are starting to gel. I'm still a little rusty, though. Right now (senior) Ray Carter is still ahead ofme." 
While Francisco is the type who would gladly play any position to help the team, one gets the feeling that he's happy to be back. 
"I consider myself a team player first," says Francisco. "I 
moved over to the secondary last spring to help the team, 
and now that the defense is solid and we need depth at 
tailback, I'm moving back. It really doesn't make much dif· 
ference to me where I play. The most important thing to 
me is that the team wins. 
"But I guess deep down I'm a tailback at heart. I've got 
tailback blood in me." 
Few who saw the flashy Francisco in his first game in 
1983 would dispute that fact. That day the Irish were 
playing Purdue in West Lafayette, Ind., and the freshman 
captured the fans' attention by rambling for 81 yards on 
just nine carries. On his first collegiate run, Francisco ex­
ploded for 18 yards. Later in the day, he broke loose on a 
33-yard jaunt. 

Larry Burke 
Football Notebook 
As impressive as he was, however, Francisco was a vic· tim ofcircumstance in the early part ofthat year. The Irish had Allen Pinkett, one of the nation's best at tailback, as well as senior Greg Bell, who rushed for 1 59 yards and four touchdowns in his first two games. Francisco found playing time hard to come by · that is until Bell went down with an injury. Bell played in only two ofthe final nine games, get· ting just eight carries. Francisco wound up as the top backup to Pinkett and finished as the team's third-leading ground gainer. His future at tailback looked promising. 
But Francisco's career as a running back ended in the iniddle of the team's 1984 spring drills. Jefferson had been moved from split end to tailback for the last thtee weeks of the '83 season, and it became apparent that the Irish had an abundance of talent at that postion. It also became ap· parent that the Irish did not have an abundance oftalent in the secondary. 
So on April 13, Francisco became a defensive back. The following day he played in his first scrimmage, backing up Steve Lawrence at free safety. The logic behind the mo~e was sound · the coaches wanted Francisco to be in the best position to contribute. But it was tough·for him at first. 
"In the beginning I was a little hesitant," he recalls. "But I knew that I had to do what was best for the team, so I made the switch." 
Francisco's hesitancy faded in time, though, and he worked his way into the starting lineup as the '84 season progressed. He developed into an impresssive tackler, and he proved he could handle either the free safety or corner· back position. He finished the season with 41. tackles and he was third among defensive backs in minutes played. 
"I got to a point at about mid-season where I started to feel really comfortable at defensive back," Francisco remembers. "I wasn't even thinking about playing tailback · I was enjoyiqg hitting people. I think I'm going to miss free safety · now people are going to be hitting me again instead ofme hitting them." 
But with the way players get moved around, it's possible that Francisco could be back in the secondary again next year. Jefferson should be back for 1986, provided his rehabilitation goes well, and the Irish have a pair of talented freshman' tailbacks in Corny Southall and Hiawatha's younger brother D'Juan, not to mention Mark Green, who currently is working at wideout. 
But as Francisco puts it, "Right now we're just thinking for the moment, taking it game-by-game, one day at a time. And I'll be ready to play when they need me." 

