r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Inside: Irish Extra 

VOL XX, NO. 30 
Rescuers rush to save victim of quake 
MEXICO CITY -Rescue workers 
digging with picks, shovels and their 
hands tried frantically yesterday to 
reach a 9-year-old boy believed 
u;~pped alive under tons of 
earthquake rubble for 14 days. 
· After digging for hours, grime­covered rescue workers said they still hope to reach Luis Ramon Navarrete Maldonado, whose relatives said he is trapped in the debris along with his 57-year-old grandfather, Luis Maldonado. 
The workers believe the boy has communicated with them by tap· ping on the debris surrounding him. Doctorli at the scene said the child is too weak to talk. Rescue workers emerging from the old three-story colonial building said there has been no voice contact. 
Carlos Malbran, an Argentine en­gineer who is one ofthose in charge of rescue efforts, said he could not estimate wh~n rescuers would tun­nel through the rubble and reach the point where the child is believed trapped under an estimated 20-ton mound of debris. Rescuers said they think they were within five feet of the location. 
One worker said rescuers have dug two primary, parallel tunnels and believe the boy is between the two paths. The workers said they must take a circuitous route to·reach the spot where the child is believed to be because of the debris. 
Rescuers at the site said the build­ing collapsed during the Sept. 19 quake, apparently trapping the boy in the patio area as he was trying to · flee. 
Alberto Maldonado, 30, said yes­terday he believes both his father and nephew have responded to res­cuers tapping on the rubble. 
·"I know my father is alive," he told the AP, adding that the older man is. "very strong. He plays jai alai all day on Wednesdays and Saturdays." 
Rescue workerJorge Sanchez Zer­
see QUAKE, page 3 

When I'm sailing • • • 
Tbe beautiful weather yesterday afternoon proved to be ideal for these boaters who sailed on 



Gorbachev releases reduction plan 
PARIS-Soviet leader Mikhail Gor­
bachev disclosed details yesterday 
ofa new, three-point Soviet plan for 
reducing superpower strategic ar­
senals by 50 percent, and offered to 
talk directly with France and Britain 

on reducing their independent 
nuclear forces. 

Gorbachev outlined three major elements of the Soviet plan in a speech to French legislators: to cut strategic weapons by half and prohibit space weapons, to talk with France and Britain on reducing nuclear weapons in Europe and to reduce Soviet medium-range missiles targeted on Europe. 
He said the Soviet Union is cutting back its SS-20 medium-range missiles in Europe to 243, the num­ber he said were deployed in june 
1984. 
"There can be no victors in a 
TheObecrveriJamn CuroU 

St. joseph Lake. They were able to sail before tbts weekend, when rain ts predicted. 
nuclear war," the Soviet leader said. "It is time to draw a practical conclu­sion from this -to stop the nuclear arms race. 
"A few days ago we proposed to the government of the United States to come to terms on the total prohibition of space strike arms for both sides and to reduce really radi­cally, by 50 percent, the nuclear arms capable of reaching each ot­her's territory," he said. 
Referring to the Reagan ad­ministration's Star Wars program for research on space-based missile defense systems, Gorbachev said it was "naive ... to search for a solution ofthe problem ofsecurity in the per­fection ofthe shield and the sword." 
Gorbachev said the French have insisted that their independent nuclear forces cannot be negotiated without French participation. The British also have refused to be in-
eluded in the present U.S.-Soviet arms control negotiations. 
NATO said the independent British and French arms should not be included as part of its arsenal in the reduction negotiations with the Soviets. The Soviets have rejected the NATO position. 
"The Soviet Union is prepared for such a direct dialogue with France just as with Britain," Gorbachev said. 
"Here I want to stress that we will take into account the security inter· ests of France in the most attentive manner," he said. 
Michel Vauzelle, spokesman for French President Francois Miner­rand, said there would be no com­ment on Gorbachev's proposal until the joint news conference the two leaders are to hold this morning. 
Reagan, visiting Cincinnati, Ohio, said he had no objection to separate Soviet negotiations with France and Britain. 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1985 


'Star Wars' defended by Weinberger 
Aasodated Preas 
WASHINGTON Defense 

Secretary Caspar Weinberger of­
fered a rousing defense today of 
President Reagan's "Star Wacs" 

program, accusing its critics of 
adopting a "blame America first" at­
titude and ignoring Soviet effons to 
achieve military superiority. 
Weinberger, addressing the Philadelphia World Affairs Council, said he was troubled by the "tunnel vision" and "lack of strategic perspective" that has marked debate over the program -known formally as the Strategic Defense Initiative. 
His prepared text was released at the Pentagon. 
"This tunnel vision is born of the simplistic idea that there i.~ really no substantial difference between the doctrines and capabilities of the United States and Soviet Union," he said. "Indeed, if you read only domestic critics and Soviet propaganda, you would think that SDI emerged full-blown from our minds without reference to Soviet capabilities or strategic history." 
The Star Wars program is more than the world's best hope for en­ding the "mutual suicide pact" that now maintains peace, Weinberger said. It is a military necessity, prompted by clear evidence the Soviets have spent the last 13 years ignoring arms treaties and seeking the capability to win a nuclear war. 
·~our broad examination of the strategic nuclear context led to a very troubling conclusion: the Soviet Union had rejected the no­tion of deterrence through agreed mutual vulnerability," Weinberger said. 
"In fact, the Soviets had been modernizing and increasing their of­fensive arsenal and simultaneously stepping up their defensive programs -all with t!Je clear aim of gaining a first-strike capability." 
"This is the 'blame America first' school, and its thinking is charac­terized by a casual dismissal of Soviet doctrine and of the raw facts of the Soviet buildup." 

Future role of residence hall judicial councils questioned 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
CopyEditor 
The Judicial Council last night debated the function of hall judi­cial boards and whether the boards should have any authority in al­cohol policy matters. 
The debate carne during a question-and·answer period with Ann Firth, director of residence life. 
"I'm raising the question of whether the judicial boards are functioning in the way they were intended to," said Fisher Hall Rec­tor Merwyn Thomas, one of several rectors and rectresses at­tending the council meeting. 
"A limited number of minor topics and cases are covered by the judicial boards," Thomas said "We're getting into a formal, legal system. Is that what we need for minor violations?" 
Patrick Flood, Carroll Hall's council member, said if judicial boards were eliminated, there would be "a lot of resentment" among students who no longer would have the option of having their case reviewed by their peers. 
"There is a positive atmosphere during the hearings," Flood said. "Granted, they may be for small violations, but this is not a courtroom (procedure). This is a hearing." 
The debate began after Firth finished her speech and opened the floor to questions. 
During the question-and-answer period, Firth told the council the alcohol policy overruled Du Lac regulations, and thus the rector, and not the hall's judicial board, has authority in cases ofstudent in­toxication. 

Kathy Weisenberger, Lyons Hall's council member, later asked Firth why the judicial board did not have more authority in such matters. 
Firth, quoting the alcohol policy, answered that such matters were not referred to hall judicial boards "for pastoral, clinical, and privacy reasons." 
"I'm pointing out that with seven students (on the judicial board), there is a greater chance of loss of confidentiality than you would have with one rector," she said. 
Flood said students should be given a choice of having either the hall rector or the hall judicial board hear their case. 
"If you are really trying to guarantee students' rights, shouldn't (students) have a choice?" he asked. 
Karen Ingwersen, judicial coun­cil coordinator, said,"Judicial boards are confidential. It's not dif­ferent except for its students." 
Firth said "the drafters of the al­cohol policy made the determination" that the hall rector should hear such cases for reasons ofprivacy. 
"It was not so much a lack of f.aith (in judicial boards), but for the student's welfare," Firth said. "I think you have to believe they had the well-being of the student in mind." 
Firth also was questioned why judicial boards had no authority in parietal cases. It was suggested that judicial boards hear cases dealing with "non-sensitive parietal viola­tions." 
"I think that's a good sugges­tion," she said. Firth added that a written proposal should be sub­mitted to the Office of Residence Life for the suggestion to be con­sidered. 
During her speech, Firth spoke of the need for more consistency. "In dift'erent halls, differ~nt things are done and ditferent sanctions are used for the same infractions. 
She also spoke on the need for more continuity from one year's judicial boards to the next. "Each year the judicial boards have to reinvent the wheel," she said. 
Firth suggested the council make proposals to improve the judicial board system, but added it would be difficult. 



A Nurse Career Day will be hosted by the Saint Mary's Student Nursing Association on Oct. 10 from 3:30 to 6 p.m. in Regina Hall's north lounge. Approximately 40 hospitals will be represented, mainly from the midwest. The Career Day is planned to enable students to make contacts with hospitals from their home towns for summer and permanent employment. The event has been organized by Nursing Career Commissioners Cathryn Smith and Pam Zimlich, with assistance from JeffRoberts ofthe Counseling and Career Development Office. -The Observer 
The National Conference of Catholic Bishops 
has designated this Sunday, Oct. 4,"Respect Life Sunday." Anyone interested in celebrating the respect for life is invited to a Mass in Lewis Hall on Sunday night at 10. The celebrant will be Rev. Andre Leveille, CSC, director ofUniversity ministry. The Mass is sponsored by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life Group. -The Obseroer 
To assist seniors in making choices, the 
Center for Social Concerns is hosting a Post-Graduate Opportunities Day. Today from 11 to 4, more than a dozen groups, including Holy Cross Associates, Jesuit Volunteer Corps and the Claretians will have recruiters available on the patio outside the center. Everyone is welcome. -Tbe Observer 
Holy Cross Associates-Chlle is a 2 112 year post-graduate service program which immerses Notre Dame graduates in the Church and culture of Latin America. For anyone interested in learning more about the HCA-Chile program, booklets now are available at the Center for Social Concerns. Application deadline is Nov. 7. For more information, see Mary Ann Roemer, 239-7949. -Tbe Observer 
VVeather ! 
Look for sllver linings in all the clouds out today. Mostly cloudy with a 30 percent chance of morning rain. Becoming partly cloudy, windy and cooler in the after­noon with the high near 65. Mostly clear tonight with the low 40 to 45. Mostly sunny tomorrow with a high near 60. -AP 


1be Obeuva-(USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on hom~ football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe ~is published by the studentsof the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUCJC. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( 120 per se· mester) by writing 1be ~. P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 

1be Obec~r is a member of lb~ ~ Pre.. All reproduction rights an: reserv~d. 
Design Editor................. Maureen Murphy Design Assist~nt............... Mdissa Warnke 
Layout Staff.................................Suc Ritger john O'Neil Typesetten ...................................Tom Small 
Bcclcy Gunderman Typist ........................... Mary Kate D'Amore News Editor .............................Jane Kravcik Copy Editor ...................Cindy Rauckhorst Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf Sports Special Layout............ Alex Peltzer 
jeft'Blumb 
Viewpoint Copy Editor .......Aimee Storin Viewpoint Layout............ Elizabeth Vogel Featun!S Copy Editor...............Sam Moore Featun!S Layout.................... Maria Groner ND Day Editor .......................Lynne Strand SMC Day Editor................. MaryJean Sully Ad Design .......................Jeanie Grammens Michelle Martin 
Jesse Pesta Tom Blafure Pbotograpber...............Chaitanya P:mchal 
The magic number this year seems to be 40. 
Media blitz after media blitz has examined the ramifications ofthe end ofWorld War II. Such events as V-E day, V-J day and the dropping of the first atomic bomb have been the subject of TV specials, battlefield trips and numerous survivor and first-hand accounts. 
Another anniversary is taking place this month in 
New York City. The United Nations is 40 years old. 
The anniversary session has been marked with con­
troversy from the start. The General Assembly budget 
committee has recommended that the United States 
continue as the largest contributor, paying 25 percent 
ofthe total budget. The 78 poorest countries would pay 
the minimum of one-hundredth of 1 percent of the 
budget. 

This recommendation comes in the wake of a U.S. Congress bill stipulating that unless voting is weighted according to contributions on U.N. budget matters next year, the United States would pay no more than 20 per­cent of the U.N. budget. In the past, budget matters have been one vote for each country, regardless of con­tribution. 
Such weighted voting would give the three largest Western contributors, the United States, West Ger­many and France, together with Japan, slightly more than 50 percent of the vote. 

U.S. 
actions come partly because "blocs" politicize the United Nations, says the United States. Because of this so-called politicization, the United States refused to sign the 1982 Law ofthe Sea MARK WEJI'IH()I.T Treaty or to recognize the jurisdiction of the Interna­tional Court ofJustice when Nicaragua complained of 

U.S. 
aggression. 



This latest conflict brings into focus the problem that makes the future of an effective United Nations so un­certain. It is not a new problem or one that easily can be solved. 
The problem is inherent in the structure of the United Nations. It is an organization which has an ideal to bring the n ttions ofthe world together in peace, not war. At the same time, this unification must take place in the hostile environment of power politics between rival ideologies and cultural backgrounds. 
The United Nations arose from a desire among tem­porary allies to avoid the mistakes that made the League of Nations one of the largest failures ofthe century and World War II a blot on history. 
Forty years has demonstrated much about the structure. Its strong points always have been its most simple. The sharing of ideas in a neutral environment, 

support the 





March of Dimes
--llllli'HDEFECtS FOUNDATION-­
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS 
ALL THE SMIRNOFF 
YOU CAN HANDLE 
WITH 

RUSSIAN COMEDIAN YAKOV SMIRNOFF 
Friday, October 11 8:00pm Stepan Center 
Tickets on Sale at La Fortune Record Sale Ticket Price $3.00 
Frank Lipo 
Copy Chief 

working until universal peace is achieved and ending human suffering are some ofthe simpler idealistic goals. Efforts toward these goals have outweighed selfish, nationalistic views. 
The United Nations has spearheaded the eradication ofsmallpox, the codification of human rights, develop­ment ofinternational law and perhaps thepreventionof Wodd War III. 
Such achievements cannot be overlooked. 
The hostile posture of the United States on budget matters is understandable. Our government must not give away the money of its taxpayers if it has serious doubts whether in the long run that money will be for the benefit of those same taxpayers. 
Yet the spirit of com­promise has kept the United Nations alive. It is true that the United States has borne the brunt of the budget responsibilities, but volun­tarily and with optimism. Also, we possess such a high level of the world's wealth and resources, it is only 
10-'l natural that we help those who are lacking. Such spirit must continue. 

The United Nations is invaluable to a better world future. Budget squabbles, vetos, and power politics aside, the simple fact of the matter is that we desperately need a forum for discussion on matters of war and peace, the hungry, the persecuted and the diseased. Factions and blocs will be inevitable when people of diJierent cultures and ideologies come toget­her; but so will discussion and the sharing ofideas. 
"Let each member ofthe United Nations ask itself this question: Who gains if the United Nations fails?" said Supiah Dhanabalan, foreign minister ofSingapore at the 
U.N. assembly hall last week. This question is the key to our future. 
Forty years is a shon time when viewed against world history. Starry-eyed optimism is foolish when we look ahead to the next 40 years. Pessimism just might be deadly. 


The Observer Friday, October 4, 198,5-page 3 

Offto market 
G. Ngwenya pushes bis two granddougbters aboard a wheel­barrowdown a street tn Soweto, tbe black township outside johan­nesburg, South Africa. 



government budget deficit by 1991 
~~~~~~~~~Sen~econ~derspl~toeli~n~e 
-----------------·A.IeodateclPraa
J.M.S. PLAZA 
WASHINGTON · The Republican­led Senate, trying to ease the politi­
4609 Grape Road 
cally unpleasant chore ofraising the
Mishawaka 
national debt limit above $2 trillion,


oo ~~ 
was stampeding yesterday toward 
adopting an emergency plan that 
promises to erase budget deficits by
BE A GHOST 
1991. President Reagan, campaigning
THIS HALLOWEENI 
for his tax overhaul proposals in Ohio, told reporters the administra· tion has been studying a similar plan "so we're in agreement on that (the 

goals of the plan) and we are going 1--------------------------.1to be talldng about that." 
Call about our Halloween special 277 · 7026 
Asked ifthe president will support 




Red Lobster· 
isbri--
ericatoyou 



on a platter. 
Presenting the Seafood Tastes of America. Red Lobster is bringmg home the tastes that make America great As we pres-ent 5 new combination platters. 
The Alaskan Platter. Tempt your tastebuds wrth Snow Crab Meat, Halibut Steak and a Salmon Frllet 
The Southern Platter. Savor the flav~r of lightly fried, Farm-raised Catfish, Calico Scallops ancfShrimp in the Round. 
I 

The Louisiana Platter. Taste the magic of Shnmp Creole, Bayou-style Seafood Gumbo and Cajun Blackent:d Snapper. 
The New England Platur. Experience the delicious differences of Maine Lobster Mornay, Boston Bluefish and New England Clam Chowder. 
The California Platter. Indulge yourself v._,dl d Shrimp Kabob, Halibut Kabob and lightly fried Calamari Rmgs. 

Red Lobster® 
201 West McKinley, Mishawaka, 256·1565 
!-1985 Red Lobster 

President predicts his tax proposal will be the law before end of year 

CINCINNATI · President Reagan brought his tax-reform message to Ohio yesterday, telling workers at a soap-making plant and business people at a Chamber of Commerce luncheon that both would benefit from a tax overhaul. 
During his three-hour stay, the president mentioned the name of hometown hero Pete Rose, who last month set a major league base-hit record, in predicting his tax proposal would become law by year's end. 
"Just as sure as (Babe) Ruth could hit homers and Rose can break records, during this session of the Congress, America's tax plan will become law," Reagan said 
Reagan arrived at Greater Cincin· nati International Airport, in nor­them Kentucky, shortly after 11:15 
a.m. From there, he headed to Union Terminal in downtown Cincinnati and traveled by motorcade to the Procter & Gamble Co.'s Ivorydale soap-making plant across town. 
After lunch with workers in the 
the plan, Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole said, "That's the indica­tion I received" from Max Fricdersdorf, the president's assis­tant for legislative . affairs. Dole said Reagan is expected to make a formal statement on the plan today. 
He said he expected the Senate to pass the debt limit increase along with the deficit-reduction plan. 
Speaker Thomas "Tip" O'Neill acknowledged that concern over government red ink made it likely that a similar plan would pass in the House. 
plant cafeteria, Reagan challenged House Democrats to "send a bill to the Senate as quickly as possible. 
"It's a challenge, I know, but I just don't think that America should have to wait for fairness and the in­creased growth that lower taxes will bring." 
H Congress sends him a bill before Christmas., the president added, "then, maybe, we can sing 'Joy to the World' with extra feeling." 
Later, before a Greater Cincinnati Chamber ofCommerce group ofex­ecutives, the president plugged his plan as a "substantial tax break'' for small business. 
"Many already understand that our plan will mean lower federal income taxes for most individuals," Reagan said. "But there's been some confusion about just what it would mean for business. 
"Permit me to set the record straight. For small business, our plan will represent a substantial tax break." 
After the downtown speech, Reagan returned to Union Terminal and headed by helicopter to the 
"We have here a five-year emer­
gency program that sets out the goal 
of balancing the budget, it imposes 
that constraint on the president and 
the Congress, (and)it imposes a bin· 
ding budget," said Sen. Phil Gramm, 
a principal author of the proposal 
that has been embraced by the 
Republican leaders in theSenate and 
House. 
"I think it's obvious that we have to increase the national debt, but it's far less obvious that a majority of United States senators arc (not)wil­ling to do that without, as some say, calling in some of the credit cards," said Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman ofthe Senate Budget Committee. 
The increase in the national debt limit -which the Senate began con­sidering yesterday · is necessary to allow the government to continue borrowing to maintain its opera­tions. But some legislators have said they will oppose the increase, and even filibuster, unless it is accom­panied by action to tame runaway budget deficits. 
The administration wants the cur­rent debt limit of S1.824 trillion raised to 12.078 trillion by Monday to meet the government's borrow­ing needs for another year. 

STATEMENT Of OWNE~~~~~~~~~~~~E~~~~~NT AND CIRCULATION 
P.O. Box Q. ~otre name. St ..Joseph County, Indiana, ..1fl5~6 
~l NAMt.SANOCOMf"l..llf NAILI"'G AO~f~S ~ PVSL!SH_tR _E~~T?R -:N~ M~~A~1.NG lOt fOR 1/II",..,., 'If.~( \ur/1, ~~~..•-_____j 
f'utiL.ISHfA 1'\•••-(.,_,...., .,._.. ,...,,...,, 
Sarah llamilton, 411 Bro!en-Phillips. 'lotrr name, Indiana, :HiSS6 ~,..._,.,....;c·.~,_.__ ~...~Joon•• ~ ~----~ ~--~------! 
SaTah llamilton, .ttl !reen-rhillips, 'iotre flame, lndiana, 46SS6 ~OITOAI~M,,-,-...,~..,.;,..,.,...,._, ------------­
My Stephan, ~SOO Hickory Rd. Apt. :W.A, South Bend, Indiana, 466\7 1 OWNE~tlf ..-.,ao,,, ,u_._,_.,..... _,,.,._,,.,d....,_,.,,,,.._,.,.t<rl, '"' 
_.....,_,.,w~-~--t•-•,.,.,.,... 

.,.....,_...,... ',_-nl __ __
., .,.,_. 1/_,.,_..._. .. ,~-...... ,,_ft.._.___._.,tlt#,..,........,,,_,.._., 
.,..,_ lfco...Wt,,...,.,.,.,.,...<IIIIIN_..,._.....,,._ lb_utd-..,.•.•-"LINtll{_lt.........,_k,._ If*""'....,. 
,._ '-fiN~•r•~-.-a-_....._,..,,.~ 111•_._,,..., t_,.u.IH I 
Fut.LitAIIIl 
FUlL ...... 
COIIIWLETl MAlliHG A DORIS& 

MAIL AT SI"'CIAl AATlS 1.~-4;:.11! O!IIM ,4,1 r... ~.r....a_.._..,.....,-ot,,._q~~-·~·-..a•,.••-.n, ...... torF.-..-,-...--K-...•·-' 
rtr •.._., ,..lllu/lfp_,, ...._, ~,,..._,.,.... .., 




0~0 
ro eso 

a I'AtOCI..CUlATIOh 
1 s-.t1'ftt0141'1 .......,,...~............ __..,._........ 
9 ?no
9 950 

1 "'--'Suti!Ko ........ -------------------~--~-1~65~0---+--~1~5~~0--~ 
_:_:~~AL ~A--10CI~C~LAf·Klft·'--,-,"',..._'.. ...,
:-::-'_,:-::-,:-::-__--+---'1:_.,.1,_,60'-"..0--­
I 0 Z~30'-----l 0 ftlff Dt51"RIIUTION •v lllAIL.~ ..IUt OR QfKfA MlANS ~lf~ r:ow~~~~~T~"· ~<!-'"'-"'-"'-'c_ooo_n_-+______:.Ze_5~0__ 
E TOTAl. CNSTAI.UTIQH,J-,'ft'-~~ ~ f 
COf'IU,.oT-o.ST;I~f(;--------~--+--!L_!_S_~---+-~1~0~48~0-----j 1 ~--+----'1~~0~---1---'~~oa~----l
Of'--·'-'·-.-..............p-... 
-0· -0· 

G TOTAL•"""'-•'It ,_.,.,., .. -~_,---·••••AI 
2 000 10 6~0 

Greater Cincinnati Airport. He left for Washington about 2:30 p.m. aboard the prcsidmtial jet. 
Reagan, who has been told by both Democrats and RepubUcans that there is little enthusiasm for pas­sing tax-overhaul legislation this year, has spoken in 18 dties and towns since Memorial Day in his campaign to persuade Congress to complete action on a tax revision bill this year. 
Kentucky Gov. Martha Layne Col­lins, a Democrat, greeted the Republican president when he arrived at the airport. Rep. Willis Gradison, R-Ohio, a supporter of tax reform and a member of the tax· writing House Ways and Means Committee, accompanied Reagan from Washington on ~c Air Force One jet. 
Other Cincinnati and Hamilton County politicians, including Cin­cinnati Mayor Charles Luken, a Democrat, and county commis· sioner Norman Murdock, a Republican, greeted Reagan at the airport. 
The emergency budget plan being offered as an amendment to the debt limit increase would, by statute, impose a series of incremental deficit reductions leading to elimination ofdeficits by 1991. 
Supporters say it is an alternative to a constitutional amendment re­quiring a balanced budget, and ac­hieves the same goal without rewriting the Constitution. 
Under the proposal, the maxi­mum allowable deficit would be $180 billion in the current 1986 fi.s. cal year, St44 billion in 1987, 1108 billion in 1988, 172 billion in 1989, 136 billion in 1990 and zero by 1991. 
Deficits now are running at an an­nual rate ofabout 1200 billion. 
Unless the president and Congress agree on the action to be taken, Domenici said, "nothing is going to reduce the budget deficit as it must be reduced" but this ap­proach "will force decisions. It will make it very difticult for the U.S. House and the _u.s. Senate and the president to somehow escape by each of them claiming that they must get their way." 

Quake 
continuedfrom page 1 
meno yesterday said rescuers had been using a super-sensitive microphone system to call out the boy's name and there was a tapping response, leading workers to believe the boy is alive. 
He said he could not speculate on the grandfather's fate. 
The first quake ·to rock Mexico City registered 8.1 on the Richter scale and a second the evening of Sept. 20 registered 7.5. 
The government's death toll stands at 4,600, a number that has not been updated since the weekend. 
Clarification 
Because of a reporting error, the quote attributed to Vince Willis in the Sept. 30 edition of The Observer was incorrect. Wil­lis actually said, "Drinking shouldn't be the focus. 1bis (cable television on campus)can be an alternative." 


---------· --------------~--------------------------------------------------------~--.................................... 
The Observer Friday, October 4, 1985 -page 4 

Maryland court rules i handgun makers liable 
ford expensive guns to protect1 themselves and their homes. 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. -People who The ruling applies only to guns
,t 
make or sell small handguns can be known as "Saturday Night Specials" 
sued by victims shot in criminal at­and not to better quality, more ex­
tacks, Maryland's highest court pensive handguns. It also applies 
ruled yesterday. only in Maryland, although spokes­
. The unanimous Court of Appeals men on both sides ofthe gun control 
decision was the first in the nation to issue said it could influence rulings 
hold that the manufatrurer or seller in similar cases in other states. 
of a handgun is liable for damages 
simply because the weapon even­The liability question reached the 
tually is used by a criminal to wound Court of Appeals in a case filed by 
or kill. Olen Kelley of Silver Spring, who 
The decision was hailed by gun was shot in a 1981 holdup ofa super­
Th~ OblerverI)ames CarroU 

foes as a major victory in their market in the suburbs of Was­
What was that?
protracted battle to halt the sale of hington, D.C. 
junior Marianne Herb of Badin Hall studies Senior Greg Davis ofSorin Hall. The two could be
handguns in the United States. Kelley, who recovered &om 
on the main quadyesterday afternoon along with studyingfor those approaching midtenns. 
But National Rifle Association wounds in the chest and shoulder, spokesman Dave Warner called the sued Rolm Gesellschaft, a West Ger­ruling a "very bad decision" that man firm that designed and could take away a cheap self-defense marketed the weapon that was used 

Shuttle lifts off for secret mission 
! 
weapon &om people who can't af. to shoot him. all-Pentagon mission. A spy satellite "protect the identity, mission and was delivered to orbit on the first. operation of DOD cargo" and

AIDS prevention idea 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -Atlantis Despite the news blackout, there "protect information concerning 
joined America's space shuttle fleet was reliable information that the vulnerabilities of the shutde and yesterday with a dazzling liftoff on a astronauts will deploy two Defense facilities."

could close bathhouses 
mission of mystery, carrying five Satellite Communications System Considerable information about House action as "gay bashing" aimed astronauts and a pair of military satellites, advanced models known the DSCS-3 satellites has been made at attacking homosexuals, not AIDS. satellites built to withstand nuclear as DSCS-3s. The Sl00 million public by the Pentagon, including 
Shutting down massage parlors "You're talking about one small radiation. satellites are designed to prevent an the fact that it uses superhigh fre­and gay bathhouses to block the part of sexual behavior that is just a Except for the launch, which enemy &om jamming their com­quencies for secure transmissions. spread of AIDS -as the House of small &action ofthe sex that is going could be seen from much ofcentral munications. They also are used by Each weighs 2,000 pounds, has a six­Representatives authorized the sur­on," he said. "If you close the baths, Florida, the flight had as much the president to send emergency in­channel transponder and has a solar geon general to do -only would the people practicing unsafe sex will secrecy as the Air Force could structions to nuclear forces around panel span of 38 feet. force sex underground where it just go do it someplace else." muster. the globe. could be less closely monitored, The measure, passed 417-8 Wed­"The space shuttle is in orbit," was The satellites also have been The Air Force, which manages many health officials and gay rights nesday as part of a larger appropria­Mission Control's terse announce­shielded against the radiation and defense shuttle missions, plans to activists said yesterday. tions bill, also included $189.7 ment 45 minutes after liftoff. "All electromagnetic pulse effects of launch four DSCS-3 satellites and 
"Our approach is not to close it million for research and other ac­systems on board the orbiter At­nuclear explosions, which could two spares to give worldwide down, but to influence the kind of tivities related to acquired immune lantis are good. The mission is short out or overload unshielded coverage for ships, planes and behavior that goes on there. We feel deficiency syndrome, a lethal crip­proceeding as planned." electronic components. ground troops. Troops in the field that educating people is more help­pling of the body's immune Both satellites are attached to the will be able to communicate ful than driving them out into the response. The disease is spread The Air Force said in advance same rocket motor, which will boost through the satellites with portable streets, so to speak," said Dr. George through intimate sexual contact or there would be only two public them to a stationary orbit 22,300 antennas. Lamb, director ofcommunity health blood products. reports about Atlantis unless miles high before they separate and The U.S. shuttle flee1 now stands services in Boston, where there is More than 13,000 people have problems develop. ·The first, a status are maneuvered to widely-spaced at four. Atlantis, joining Columbia, one bathhouse catering to the city's contracted AIDS, most of them report four hours into the flight; the stations. Challenger and Discovery, is the last homosexuals. homosexuals, intravenous drug other, a 24-hour notice that the The DSCS-3 satellites are not clas­$1.1 billion orbiter scheduled to be 
abusers and recipients of blood shuttle will land at Edwards Air sified as secret, but the Defense built. Enterprise, which never was Jim Holm of Seatde, president of transfusions contaminated with the Force Base in California. Department has decided to black intended to gu into space, recently .. the Dorian Group and a leader in the AIDS virus. More than half the vic­Atlantis' maiden flight, the 21st of out information about most military became a visitors' exhibit at Ken­
city's gay community, described the tims have died. the shuttle program, was the seco~d flights of the space shuttle to nedy Space Center. 

CIA agent became spy out of anger 
WASHINGTON-U.S. officials said yesterday they believe former CIA agent Edward Howard started working for the Soviet KGB because he was angry about being assigned to Moscow. 
"He was ticked offover his assign­
ment to Moscow," said one official 
yesterday when asked why Howard 
is thought to have become a Soviet 
spy. "That's why he went over to the 
other side." 
Sources also said yesterday that 
Howard learned of FBI interest in 
him when agents visited his house 
last month. He soon fled. 
Howard, 3 3, went to work for the CIA's clandestine service in january, 1981, and was fired by the CIA in june, 1983, according to U.S. offi­cials who were uncertain about the reason for his dismissal. 
Howard told co-workers when he returned to his uative New Mexico in July, 1983, that he had just turned down a government assignment to Moscow. That refusal might have prompted a firing, but two sources indicated Howard had failed a CIA­administered polygraph. 
The CIA tests prospective, cur­rent and departing employees on the polygraph for security breaches, and in some circumstances, a failure can lead to an employee's firing. The test is intenqed to cover a wide range, &om espionage to simple negligence with secret information. 

Q_Q 0 0 Q_Q 0 0 0 0 0 0 QQ_Q_Q__Q_O_O Q_Q_Q_Q_QJ)_~ Q_Q_Q_Q2 


URBAN 
EXPLORE A NEW 

HORIZON... 
IAPPLICATIONS AVAILABLE I 
FROM SEPT. 30-0CT. II 


AT  N.D.:  AT  S.M.C.=  
-Center for Social Concerns  -Office  of  j~Astice  EdL&ca+jon  
_q]niversity-"Ministry­ -Campus  "Ministry­ 
-Hall %'epr~ativos  -Hall "Rep~tativos  

DEADLINE: OCT. II 3:00pm 

HAVE YOU EXPERIENCED A LOSS RECENTLY? 
GRIEF AND LOSS GROUP 
BEGINNING Tuesday Oct. 8 3:30-5:00 
Will meet for 6 consequtive Tuesdays 
---239-7336­
PLEASE contact Linda Monroe at Counseling & Psyche Service Center 
Feeling Pressure From Exams ? Tense ? Can't Sleep ? 
Learn to Relax 
Call239-7793 and ask for TAPE 37 "Relaxation Exercises" 
COUNSELINE-
Monday to Friday 4-12 pm 
239-7793 
Accent 
Friday, October 4, 1985 -page 5 
We need solitude to search for our real souls 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a lonely God 
who won't let them drink enough. 
As free Americans whose standards 
are high, they should shake off the 
group-think. of tolerance that allows 
the slobs who don't flush the johns 
to continue to live. 
There's nothing wrong in run­ning with the crowd, or finding an identity in tribal gatherings. In New York, they tell you: "Stay away from Marna Leone's. It's a tourist trap." Out ofpride, you stay away, and waste the evening looking for anot· her place halfas good. You finally figure: "Those tourists must know something. Anyway, I'm a tourist, so what's the beef?" Once over the snobbery, Mama Leone's turns out to be the only game in town you want to join. 
For an hour on Sundays, the chapels become as popular as the fast food stands the tourists use. The Masses, as omnium-gatberum occasions when the dorm gathers to sing the very tired hymns ofthe St. Louis jesuits, are community events you should never miss. But breathe there Domers with souls so dead, who never to themselves have said: "I need a cave, where I can pray by myself?'' Some ofus have no use for caves where we could spend quiet times with God; the idea only bores us. Worship is limited to the religious rallies where we keep each other com­pany. We see no attraction in being alone with the Alone. 
I'm an old coot who lives with a dog. He has his space, and I have mine. I love crowds, especially when I'm in charge. I've played packed houses, where the results were awesome. "The more the 
merrier" is a social rule ofthumb I 
respect. Yet, part ofwisdom is learning not to need Woodstock. 
I met some of the participants coming home from Woodstock, serious-eyed and impressed, pleased that they had seen the dawning of the age ofAquarius. Like the British army who fought with King Harry on St. Crispin's Day, they would remember the anniver­saries ofWoodstock until the day they died, because they were proud ofbeing with a million flower children who spent a week in an upstate New York cow pasture, giving peace a chance, making love andnotwar. 
Youth have been misunderstood since the end ofWW II, but being misunderstood only gradually became a group activity. By the '60s, togetherness became so tight that teen-agers moved around in groups as though they were memebers of a chain gang who always had to walk in the same direction. Mavericks with no peers to hang out with were a worry, because you knew they must be into something harmful which would turn them into dropouts. 
I'm not on a soapbox encourag­ing misfits. As Donne told us, no man is an island, nor he want to be. In isolation lies the madness which friendship saves you from. Even the great Hemingway heroes, slugging it out alone, needed the kindness of attention when they finished their ordeals. 

"Hair," by now, is a dated musi­cal. So many gatherings since then have seemed tribal, like something out of"Hair." Youth has a genius for communal celebrations. Rock con­certs have an air ofbeing religious, and folk Masses seem as cohesive as a concert where all the fans are on similar wave lengths. I'm not criti­cal ofyouth culture, especially when it's beautiful enough to be an art form. Maybe you will think I haven't observed it well when you read these impressions. I don't wish to be unfair. Right or wrong, I'm on youth's side. 
However, aloneness is not bad, after you've stopped treating it like a prison sentence. Aloneness is worth fighting for in a world that hates to give you time to yourself. Loneliness is isolation that you haven't found a use for. Aloneness is the silence where you go to wait for the rest of life to happen. It is the desert where God and nature, truth and beauty wish to show them­selves. The soul selects its own society, Emily Dickinson wrote. Only when the door is closed from the inside can wisdom come like an angel to the feast. I'm old enough by now, I think, to know the difference between grouchiness and wisdom. 
ne of the inescapable draw­0 backs of dormitory life which 
nobody ever complains about, it 
seems to me, is the lack ofoppor­
tunity ofchoosing to be entirely 
alone. Being alone has so many 
benefits, if you've learned to like 
your own company. 
So much of life stays hidden until you pay attention to the miracles which are waiting for you to notice them in private revelations. I feel sorry for students who can never get up and close a door which shuts out the intruders. Where, in a busy dorm, can they find a place to hide from the distractions which keep them from figuring out life, love, the soul, and God; or poetry, truth, music, existence? 
In the early '40s, 'Thomas Merton 
joined a Trappist monastery where 
the monks kept a vow ofsilence as 
part ofthe rule. His early writings 
were filled with complaint.<, about 
how little time he had to meditate. 
He had left the world to be close to 
God; but in this famous abbey in the 
backwoods ofKentucky, he was so 
busy with duties, he considered 
finding a cave where he could go to 
pray by himself. 


The problem was that there were too many monks in too small a space, because, after the war, the monastery was jammed with ex­
G.I.s trying their vocations. All the space was used until even the cor­ridors were jammed with beds. No matter where Merton went, night or day, somebody was always breathing down his neck. The lack of privacy drove him so far up the wall that he nearly left to become a hermit. 
Not many Notre Dame students feel called to be monks or nuns. Students tend to be good·natured when the living space oftheir residence halls is in short supply. Yet students need room to grow in as much as monks do. It bothers me to see some of them so weU· domesticated as members of the pack, as though standing in line to use the common facilities never sets their teeth on edge. 
Sooner or later, they must get tired ofthe assembly lines they are herded through as though they had joined the army. They should make ritual protests against the indig­nities ofinstitutional living. They waste their anger on administrators 
Rockne and 'Dutch' Gipp slip into school life to set plans 
Editor's note: 
This is the third episode in The Observer's serialpublication ofthe newNotre Dame football story, "The Gipper's Ghost," written byNotre Dame graduate RobertQuaken­bush. Last week's chapters told ofa bow God commissioned Knute Rockne and George Gipp to return to Notre Dame tn disguise to rescue the lrlsb. 
Rockne's plan 
T 
hat evening, Rockne and Gipp lounged in the LaFortune Student Center. 
Rockne leafed through the previous day's 
edition of The Observer, the daily student 
newspaper. An article on the sports page 
triggered an idea. Notre Dame's interhall 
football season would begin the next day. 
"George, I think I've found a way to 
showcase your skills for our good friend, 
Coach Kelly." 
"What's that, Rock?" 
"I want you to play in an interhall game 
tomorrow afternoon. Ifyou play as well as 
you used to, you should be a walk-on mem-
The Gipper's Ghost // ~ Chapter Four 
ber of the varsity by Monday morning. With 
any luck at all, you'll make the traveling 
squad to East Lansing next weekend." 
"Sounds like a good plan, Rock. Which team 
should I play for?" 
"Well, I thought you might enjoy playing 
for Sorin, your old residence hall," said 
Rockne, "for a couple of reasons. One, it's 
one of the smallest men's dorms on campus. 
They could use a good player against Dillon. 
Otherwise, they'll get slaughtered. Two, it's 
home to Hart Collins, your new roommate." 
"The Irish quarterback?" 
"Precisely." 
"But that means I'll have to be a student.. 
"Precisely." 
"Now wait just a minute, Rock. .." 
"Too late George, it's all arranged. God's 
already taken care of most ofthe paperwork. 
AU we need to do is give you a new name." 
"I almost didn't think ofthat, Rock. You're 
right. I'U need an alias. I can't just walk into 
Sorin Hall with a duffel bag, walk into Hart's 
room, leap onto the top bunk and say 'Hello. 
I'm your new roommate. By the way, my 
name is George Gipp.' He'U die laughing." 
"More likely he'd die offright. He'd think 
he's met a ghost!" Rockne said. 
Suddenly, Gipp chuckled. He had an idea. 
He had read an article on The Observer's 
front page about a former United States 
president. 
"How about Dutch Reagan?" Rockne started to protest, "But that's the former president's name..." 
"Fair's fair, Rock. He borrowed my 
nickname with some success. Besides,l hear 
he has a wonderful sense ofhumor. I don't 
think he'll mind." 
Rockne considered Gipp's suggestion. He remembered his recent chat with Pat O'Brien, bless his soul, who had been a good friend ofMr. Reagan while on earth. Pat spoke very well of the former president. 
"No, I suppose he won't. He is Irish, after all." "Then it's settled Dutch Reagan it is. Now, what about your disguise, Rock?" "AU taken care of, George. It's perfect. You won't believe it." 
Later that night, Hart Collins was surprised to see the lights on under his door. He was sure he had turned them off before heading over to the Morris Inn to have dinner with his parents, who had driven down from Detroit for the game. The Morris Inn was a small hotel operated by the University. It was located near the University's main gate. 
So, he was understandably curious when he stepped inside the room and discovered someone stretched out on the top bunk. 
"Hi, I'm your new roommate. Dutch Reagan's the name." 
Then Collins remembered. Father Sinon, the hall rector, had mentioned earlier in the week that Collins could expect a new roommate any day now. Father Sinon had explained that an unusually high acceptance rate by incoming freshmen had resulted in overcrowded conditions in the university's residence halls. Some ofthe freshmen as­signed to the towers, Flanner Hall and Grace Hall, had been forced to live in hastily­converted study lounges, sharing space with as many as five roommates. The students often referred to these arrangements as "six-packs." 
The priest had told Collins that some ofthe students were being shifted to other dorms to alleviate the overcrowding. 
"Hello, Dutch. Welcome to Sorin. Where have you been living?" Gipp thought fast. "I've been staying off-campus." It was close enough to the truth. "Oh, I forgot to introduce myself. My name is Hart Collins." "I know. You're a pretty good quarter­
back." 
"Come on, Dutch, who are you kidding? Michigan killed us today. The Wolverines are laughing all the way back to Ann Arbor." Collins was still dejected from the day's events. 

"No, seriously. I'm from Michigan, too." Now that, thought Gipp, was the truth. He had grown up in Michigan's upper peninsula. "I know you set a lot ofrecords at Brother Rice. They say you were the best quarterback at Brother Rice since AI Fracassa coached there!" 
"It seems hard to believe now," muttered Collins. 
"I'll bet you're still that good. Don't be so hard on yourself. You didn't get much playing time last year as a freshman, but now that you've been named the starting quarter­back. . .'' 
"That's just part ofCoach Kelly's long­range rebuilding program. He hopes we can play .500 ball my senior year." 
Gipp thought, this guy really is dis­
couraged. 

"Hart, what's that plaque hanging on the 
wall, next to the Detroit Tigers pennant?" 
Collins walked over to the plaque, an 
award he had received in high school for his 
leadership as a varsity athlete. 
"One ofthe early athletic directors at 
Brother Rice started giving this award out. 
It's one of my favorite possessions. Whenever 
things are really rough, whenever I read a 
negative story in the press ofhear boos from 
the home crowd or receive an angry letter 
from a disgruntled alumnus, I'll often read 
this. It's a quote from Theodore Roosevelt." 
"What does it say?" Dutch asked. 
"It's pretty long." 
"That's O.K. I'm not going anywhere. Read 
the whole thing." 
Collins began reading the inscription 
aloud, "It is not the critic who counts; not the 
man who points out how the strong man 
stumbled, or where the doer ofa deed could 
have done better. The credit belongs to the 
man who is actually in the arena, whose face 
is marred by dust and sweat and blood, who 
strives valiantly, who errs and comes short 
again and again because there is no effort 
without error and shortcoming. It is the man 
who does actually strive to do the deeds, 
who spends himself in a worthy cause, who 
at the best knows in the end the triummph of 
high achievement, who at the worst, if he 
fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that 
his place will never be with those cold and 
timid souls who know neither victory nor 
defeat." 

Dutch appreciated the thought, but 
decided to change the subject. The new 
roommates talked for a few more minutes, 
but as it was already quite late, they decided 
to tum in for the night. 
As Gipp turned out the lights, he said, "By the way, I'm going to play in the interhall game tomorrow. Why don't you come on out and cheer your new roommate on to vic­tory?" 
"Victory? Against Dillon Hallr' Collins thought to himself, this Reagan kid sure doesn't know much about football. "Say good night, Dutch." 
Collins drifted into sleep. 
To be continued ... 
""-·n..Gtftp.r's G.._,, • cOJI7rlPI J9flj tty.,..,QtooiiiM· /nub. PtlbiWMI by o·cm~..-PllbiUbi"' co. •.,n,_,by JH"''IU· skm. 

~i~~~_()__i_Jt__t___________________Fr-id-~,_o_cto-be-r4-,1-98-5--pa-ge-6 
Fire at Grotto reveals its importance to many 
I walked down to the Grotto the other night have no idea what made me do it. Since I had remains a link between me and my memories I guess ifanything goodcould possibly have and was very pleased to find it virtually back been in the same position myself, it just of the previous four years. It has made the come from last week's fire it is that I now ap­to normal. That place has come to mean an seemed to be the right thing to do. My Grotto more than just a crutch for me to lean preciate the Grotto more and realize more awful lot to me in the four-plus years I've been Hawaiian roommate at the time called it the on when times were hard, and left in my mind fully the unique role it plays in my life and the here, and looking at its charred shell last week Aloha Spirit. I do not know what it was, but I a symbol of Notre Dame and all this place has lives of many others around campus. As I was quite hard to take. know there was something about being so come to mean to me. stood there last week and looked and the 
close to God that made me want to help that charred granite, the peaceful feeling I always 
I still use the Grotto as a crutch, as a way of

Mike Wllkins girl, even though she was a total stranger. get when I walk down to that part of campus
feeling close to God when things seem to pile
Sophomore year I spent some of the worst never came. But this week when I saw the 
up. My best friend and I have had a falling out
moments of my life at the Grotto. One of my Grotto almost back to normal, that feeling was 
of sorts lately and I go there and pray we will
here, there and back best friends was killed in an automobile acci­back. I realized then how important that
be understanding with each other and rebuild
dent and I was bitter and angry. I lit candles, feeling of peacefulness really is to me. I only
the special friendship we shared. But now
When I first came to Notre Dame, I didn't knelt on the kneelers, sat on the benches, wan­hope it doesn't take another tragedy for me to
when I am at the Grotto, it is more than just a 
even know the Grotto existed. I stumbled on dered around the grassy area between the recognize the other important things in my
crutch. It is a symbol ofwhat I have learned at
it by accident one day as I was walking around Grotto and the lakes · all the while question­life that I take for granted. 
Notre Dame, an expression of the beliefs that St. Mary's Lake. I was immediately impressed ing God. I went there frequently after my 
Mike Wilkins is a Notre Dame lawstudent.
are so important to me.
with its beauty and the peaceful feeling it friend died, mad at God every time. seemed to create in eveyone who stopped to Yet even through my anger, I felt that when pray. I was at the Grotto, God was near me and He 
Within a month or two, the Grotto had was trying to make me understand what had become a pretty regular part ofmy life. I didn't happened. Slowly, after many nights of go there every~ay, but when I needed a little prayingand questioning, and through the love lift or just a break from the pressures offresh­and understanding of a very special friend, I man year, the Grotto was always the first place was able to accept my friend's death. Even 
I would go. when I questioned God and my beliefs so 
I can remember breaking up with my severely, when I was at the Grotto, I would girlfriend from home that year. The night I never feel He had abandoned me. realized things were finally over I walked Last year, the Grotto became more than just down to the Grotto and had a good cry.Being a convenient link to God, but a link to my days there did not make my problems go away, but at Notre Dame as well. Just before graduation, it sure made me feel a lot more at peace with when the seniors made their last trip to the what had happened. Grotto, I carried a candle from Sacred Heart 
Not too long after that, I had wandered Church to the Grotto. I can still remember ex­down for a late night prayer and there was a actly where I placed my candle and exactly girl sitting on a bench crying. After much where my girlfriend placed hers as well. hesitation, I sat down next to her and asked Even though that candle holder has yet to her what was wrong and ifshe'd like to talk. I be replaced because of the fire, that spot 

Notre Dame football suffers from no imagination 
In the year and a half since returning to an avid fan picks up by repeated observation, the Fall of '77 when we won the national Today, we have Allen Pinkett off-tackle or Notre Dame for graduate study, I have seen supplemented by the ever-present "expert championship That time has been referred to, Allen Pinkett up the middle. In the Michigan many letters in these pages concerning the commentary' of the television broadcast. It is in these pages, as the "glory years." Well, there State game, where we were "successful," I fortunes of our football program. These have in acknowledgement of the limits of my ex­were moments of glory, but there was often counted only about three times when, on first ranged from analyses of particluar strategies pertise that I have consistently resisted the frustration, a frustration quite similar to that down, we did something other than send on the field broad based character assess­temptation to add my voice to the chorus of which we experienced last Saturday. Pinkett straight into the line. The person I feel ments ofCoach Faust. comment. However, even in the face of most badly for in aU ofthis is Allen Pinkett. He 
There was remarkable irony in the rousing
technical complexity, common sense has its is a true gentleman and has too much class to
ovation given Dan Devine at half-time of the
Michael X. Ball role to play; sometimes it pleads for a hearing. co.mplain. But he is being wasted, rendered
Michigan State game, for in the "glory years," 
After watching this season's first three games, ineffective by the way he is being used. Fur­
Devine was roundly disparaged and not a little 
and especially Saturday's loss at Purdue, there thermore, he is being placed at a much greater
disliked. Part ofit was personality. But part of
guest column are a few things I feel the need to say. risk ofinjury.
it was anger at what appeared as a chronic
The condition under which Notre Dame Pinkett is an enormously talented football
waste of talent and a seemingly permanent
I am not a coach, and my technical football today languishes is the same one that player. But Pinkett is 5'9" and weighs less than
state ofunrealized potential. Pact ofit was em­
knowledge offield strategy is limited to what was here in the mid-seventies. I was a senior in 190 pounds. He is not Earl Campbell; he is not
barrassment at being so often outplayed by Herschel Walker; he is not Eric Dickerson; heteams with less talent than ours. Part of it was is not even Keith Byars. The point was madethe dramatic inconsistency of our perfor­by the commentators during the Purdue gamemances. A big part of it was the baffiement that Notre Dame tries to play "power foot·produced when, game after game, two out of ball." That is all well and good, but one doesthree offensive plays, at least on first and not play power football by lining up with a 5-9 second down. Only rarely were there varia­guy in single setback and then running him
tions in the pattern. 
into the line. that's not power football; that's 
And so, one sees the malaise ofNotre Dame just plain stupidity. football defined: we suffer from conservatism In advertisements for upcoming games, one and a basic lack of imagination. Dan Devine often hears an announcer say: "Saturday, so won a national championship, but not be· and so takes their sophisticated offense into cause offine coaching. Had it not been for the battle so and so ...." When is the last time we singular talents ofJoe Montana, there would heard Notre Dame's approach · offensive or have been no national championship; there defensive · referred to as "sophisticated?" may well have been losing seasons. There has not been any consistent imagina­
In the 1970's, our opponents quickly tion or sophistication displayed in Notre learned to stack their defenses against our op­Dame Stadium since Ara Parseghian retired in tion sweep. We would sit in the stand and 1975. Dan Devine pulled a surprise switch to shake our heads in wonderment, because they green jerseys in 1977; Gerry Faust threw a knew what was coming (and always to the pass on fourth and one in the MSU game. It near side of the field, where there was no seems we'll have to be satisfied with that. room to run). It was as if we thought they Does anybody remember "misdirection?'' would never expect us to run it just one mor Mtchael X. Ball is a graduate student at time. So, we ran it, and they expected it. Notre Dame. 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the day 
"If at first you don't succeed, try, try again. Then quit. There's no use being a damn fool about it." 
W.C. Fields ( 1880-1946) 



. . 
I he< ••tme · · ~·1·11 t:·~c 11 t.· (.ltllt: 

Fighting Irish vs. Air Force 
------------· -------­
Time  .. Saturday, October 5, 1985 2:30 EST --------­ 
Series  Notre Dame 11, Air Force 3  

Last October 13, 1984 Air Force 21, Notre Dame 7 
Meeting 
Rankings Notre Dame unranked (AP) Air Force 17th 
Tickets Game is sold out 
w z·· ''f' II 1 'W'M , tt .,.r,= a =; 
r Ft'Di" 

Notre Dame 
Sept. 14 -lost to Mich., 20-12 Sept. 21-def. Mich. St., 27-10 Sept. 28 -lost to Purd., 35-"t 7 Oct. 5 • at Air Force Oct. 19 ·ARMY Oct. 26 ·USC Nov.2 -NAVY Nov. 9 • MISSISSIPPI Nov.16 ·atPenn State Nov. 23-LSU Nov. 30 ·atMiami 
Falcon Stadium ( 46,668) 

T\ ami ICtdio 
ABC Sports national telecast Keith jackson and Frank Broyles WSJV-TV (Ch. 28) 
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and Tom Pagna WNDU-AM 1500 
The Observer 
No more Air Farce 
Falcons become national power 
By MARlY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
F
or 11 straight seasons it was Notre Dame 
vs. the Air Farce. Throughout these years, 
beginning with the first battle in 1964, playing 
the Falcons meant only that the Irish reserves 
would geta chance to see a lot ofaction. Notre 
Dame repeatedly pulverized the weak sister of 
the service academies, and, no less, by mar­
gins like 49-0, 38-0, 34-7, 48-1 5 and even 35-7 
in 1981. On the way to lighting up the 
scoreboard in those glory days, the Irish 
rolled up an 11-0 series record. 
But all that was before the 1982 campaign, when Air Force head coach Ken Hatfield and his squad dropped a bomb on the Notre Dame defense, pasting the Irish, 30-17. 
The sudden change in the winds of war con­tinued the following two years with a 23-22 Falcon win in '83 and a 21-7 thrashing last year. The three consecutive and devastating losses left Notre Dame fans shaking their heads and wondering, "How?" 
To answer that question, one might have to go back to the year 1980, when current Air Force head coach Fisher DeBerry was hired on as an assistant coach by Hatfield. DeBerry had been an assistant at Appalachian State, where he had installed. a potent wishbone attack which brought the Mountaineers a 21-game winning streak. 
The considerable leadership skills of Hatfield, who left the Academy before last season to take over the head coaching duties at Arkansas, combined with the new "triple op­tion" offense of DeBerry transformed the Fal­cons into a considerable threat. Air Force has since won three consecutive bowl games, placed in the top 1 0 in scoring and total of­fense, and last year ranked second nationally 
in  rushing.  And  they  owe  it  all  to  the  
wishbone.  
.  

Well, maybe not entirely to the wishbone. A large share of the credit has to go to the un­dersized and underrated cadet players who make up for any lack of physical talent with sheer determination and discipline. These 
see FALCONS, page l-3 
Air Force 
Aug. 31 -def. UTEP, 48-6 Sept. 14•def. Wyoming, 49-7 Sept. 21-def. Rice, 59-17 Sept. 28 -def. N. Mex., 49-12 Oct. 5 ·NOTRE DAME Oct. 12 ·at Navy Oct. 19 -at Colorado State Oct. 26 ·UTAH Nov. 2 ·SAN DIEGO STATE Nov.9-ARMY Nov. 16-at BYU Nov. 23 ·atHawaii 

----------· ---···-------... ·-----. ·------· --------·--..............._______ . 
Notre Dame's john McCabe (45) at­tempts to pull down Air Force quarter­
•-nday, october 4, t9ss · 

NOift Dame Sporu lnlormatioo Pboto 

back Bart Wetss in last year's game at Notre Dame Stadium. 

Always doing his job 
Kovaleski stands out with his consistency 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
I 
nconsistency . The single biggest complaint against 
recent Notre Dame football squads has been their 
inconsistent play from week to week. The Irish can play 
inspired football in one game, and then come out flat 
just a week later. 
Consistency. The single word that best describes the overall play ofIrish linebacker Mike Kovaleski is consis­tency. No matter how the team is doing a particular week. Kovaleski stands out by playing hard and steady every game. 
Irish assistant coach George Kelly directs the play ofthe inside linebackers, and knows the football abilities of Kovaleski as well as anyone. 
"Mike is extremely consistent, and there is no doubt about his readiness to play each week," Kelly explains. "He's a total overachiever who plays to the best of his ability at all times." 
When told of the comments of his coach, Kovaleski 
agrees. 

"I think I've played consistently so far, but when I look at the films after each game I see there is room for im­provement and things I can do to make me a better player," says Kovaleski. 
"I'm a hard worker and I'll try to do whatever it takes to win," he continued. "I'm pretty hard-nosed and determined, but you also have to play intelligently and know your assignments." 
lt is the result of his hard work and determination that allows Kovaleski to be ready each week. 
"I've known ever since high school how important it is to be prepared mentally," Kovaleski states. "You have to know your opponent almost as much as you knowyour­self. 
"Every day I watch films of our opponents' previous ·games for a half-hour to an hour. Then it's important to be at practice each day andplay against the prep team as 
they run our opponents' offense." 
Such preparation explains how this junior can compete at a position where many of his peers are larger and quicker. Kovaleski does more than hold his own at the inside linebacker position as evidenced by his team-
see KOVALESKI, page l-3 
li 
.... -, • , A.' •It' •' 
f 
t 
Irish Extra -page 2-3 

~ 
.
Purdue game 
COJ 
lea1 bei mo
takes its toll on 
de~ 
·~ 
Ko1 \ 
optimistic Faust 
and ean the SiSti tals
Chuck 

niDI 
Freeby 

Km 
his
Irish Items 

lnd witlH
ello again, everybody! 
her stetSaturday night, Gerry Faust did what many parents do on an autumn 
MU
weekend evening -he watched his son play high school footbaU. 

dayHowever, Faust did not sit in the bleachers. Instead, he stood alone 
agai
in a far corner ofSouth Bend's jackson Field, his hands in the pockets theofhis baggy pants, his head bowed. 
HeIt usually is not depressing to be around Gerry Faust, but on this 
star
night it was. The look on Faust's face was one of agony beyond 
mo1
description. The Purdue game earlier in the day was obviously more defcthan a loss:This time Notre Dame didn't beat itself. This time Notre tear
Dame was beaten. 

beg tad
In fact, if the Purdue game would have been a prizefight, it would 
caw
have been stopped. The Irish were pitifully defenseless against a 
mak
barrage of passes by Jim Everett. They looked like one of those in­
mak
flatable Bozo dolls where you punch it and it falls, only to come back agaiup again for more punishment. 
Nav 
While the secondary was having its problems staying with Purdue 
CoU
receivers, the Irish linemen were making no progress in getting to playEverett, AU the Purdue quart,:rback had to do was go into the shot­
ere~ 
gun and you could caU it a day. Blitzes only seemed to worsen the 
pra<
situation as linebackers had single coverage on running backs, which ther was like the coyote chasing the roadrunner. 
bef( 
As far as fighting back, forget it. The Irish offensive punch couldn't 
"It"
have crushed a grape. Ofthe 74 offensive plays Notre Dame ran last to s1Saturday, 41 of them gained two yards or less. Twelve plays were twostopped behind the line ofscrimmage. 
was 
That last stat shows the porous condition of the Irish offensive line. 
The line wasn't a sieve because a sieve at least holds backsomething. 
would not risk losing five years of profes­Instead, it looked more like a funnel as black jerseys poured through sional money by enrolling at the Academy,from aU over to jump on Allen Pinkett and Steve Beuerlein. Anybody 
Falcons NotreDarr
many lesser-touted talents with no illu­who played in the Irish backfield should have been equipped with a 
continuedfrom page 1 
sions of stardom will enroll for other 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP
saddle because Purdue linemen were on their back aU day long. 
men, who also are required to give a five­reasons. year military commitment, are the keys to TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 873 1030
AU of this may not have been so bad if Notre Dame would have 
221

the success of the triple option since it is, "There are more young men now who Total Plays 208 played with any kind of enthusiasm. Unfortunately, the Irish once 
Yards per Play 4.2 4.7
perhaps, the most demanding offensive set want to go to the (service) academies," 
Yards per Game 291.0 343.3 in the game. says Faust. "They're all on scholarship, so PENALTl ES-YARDS 17-157 17-131 again came out with aU the emotional intensity of a coat hanger. 
Sure, there were a number ofplayers like Pinkett and Mike Kovaleski (the football players) don't have to play to FUMBLES-LOST 4-2 6-3who showed their utter frustration afterwards, but during the game 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 50 59
"We have kids who can think and react on get their education. They just love foot­By Rushing 19the Irish looked flat. 
their feet," says DeBerry. "You don't need baU." 31 
ByPassing 28 24 great physical, domineering people to run By Penalty 3 4
Thus, Notre Dame suffered its most humiliating defeat in a number (the option). It requires great precision "The thing you have to remember is that THIRD DOWNS-CONV 46-14 43-16of years, and its biggest margin of defeat since Miami shut out the 
Percentage 30.4 37.2
and execution." these kids want to fly planes," says DaveIrish, 20-0, in 1983. Saturday's game was an embarrassment which 
POSSESSION TIME 85:09 94:51 
Kellogg, Air Force sports information 31:37
Minutes per Game 28:23
caused Hiawatha Francisco to remark, "It can't get worse." 
Notre Dame head coach Gerry Faust has director. "If you lined up our players and 
SCORING GTO PA R-PA S FG TP
the utmost respect for the athletes at the asked how many ofthem want a shot at theOh, but it can, folks. It can. 
Air Force Academy. He should, for the Irish pros, not one ofthem would say 'yes.' Dis­
Carney 3 0 3-4 0-00 5-8 18 have known the option was coming the last cipline, personal pride and the fact that Pinkett 3 2 0-0 0-00 o-o 12Tomorrow the Irish face Air Force in a nationally-televised contest. 
they are goal-oriented makes them a good Starns 3 1 o-o o-o o 0-0 6In the past, that would have been enough to calm the nerves ofeven 
Eason 3 1 0-0 o-o o o-o 6
footbaU team."

the most pessimistic fan, as the Falcons were always an easy mark in 
Brown 3 1 0-0 0-00 o-o 6
"The thing you have to H. Francisco 1 0-00 6
3 0-0 o-o Forgive K.dlogg for forgetting to add to Cusack 3 0 0-0 1-10 o-o 2 the win column. That's just not so anymore. 
remember is that these kids 
that list the triple option. Although the Fal­For three consecutive years, the Irish have been unable to do anyth­
NO 6 1-1 5-8 56
want to fly planes. Ifyou lined cons might like to stress the individual 3 3-4 0ing against Air Force's defense, and they have been thoroughly em­
OPP 3 8 8-8 0-0 0 3-5 65 
up our players and asked how aspect of the game, nevertheless it is the
barrassed in trying to stop the Falcons' wishbone attack. They have 
RUSHING G NO YOS AVG TD LG
formation which makes their offense so
suffered defeat at the hands ofa team smaUer and less-talented than 
many of them want a shot at 
dangerous. Defenses find it virtually im­themselves. In shon, the Irish have experienced days like last Satur­
Pinkett 3 68 250 3.7 2 35the pros, not one of them possible to key on any one of the four Starns 3 13 44 3.4 1 8
day before. potential ball carriers out of the backfield H. Francisco 3 8 28 3.5 1 10
would say yes.' Discipline, Andrysiak 2 21 0 5
7 3.0
because even the quarterback does notNow they will have to try and stop it from happening again, this time 
Monahan 3 3 11 3.7 0 7
personal pride and the fact that know who is going to carry the baU until
in front of the ABC cameras. Not only will the Falcon be flying 
Taylor 2 2 11 5.5 0 7they are goal-oriented makes the play develops before his eyes. Jefferson 1 2 7 3.5 0 6
around the stadium, but the vultures will be hovering as well, Brown 3 1 7 7.0 0 7
waiting for another Notre Dame disaster. 
them a good football team." Bauerlein 3 19 -44 -2.3 0 13
"If (the option)is run right, it should work Dave Kellogg every time," says Air Force quarterbackAs Allen Pinkett said after Purdue, the Irish can respond in one oftwo 
NOTAEOAME 3 123 335 2.7 4 35 Bart Weiss, who will be commanding the OPPONENTS 3 138 533 3.9 4 25
ways. "We have two choices," said the Irish tailback. "Either fold 
right now or regroup on national TV at Air Force." 
Falcon attack tomorrow. "The defense 
PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YOS TO 
three times they have played the Falcons, decides. It's exhausting mentally onthem." Should the Irish regroup, they still may be able to salvage the season 
but still have been unable to master it. Bauerlein 3 75 33 .440 4 465 1 "I think one ofthe problems is that not too Andrysiak 2 10 5 .500 1 73 0
as well as Faust's optimism. With eight games remaining, there is still 
plenty oftim:: for Notre Dame to get its act together and put toget­"They present a lot of problems," says many teams run that type of wishbone," ------------------­
NO 3 85 38 .447 5 538 1 
Faust. "Their players are maybe not the says Faust. "This presents problems when ·her a good season. 
OPP 3 83 38 .458 3 497 3 blue-chippers, but I'm not sure if aU the you don't have the opportunity to run G NO YDS AVG TD LG
RECEIVING 

time those blue-chippers are the guys who against it week in and week out. And they ning of a long campaign. The last time a Notre Dame team started a 
On the other hand, should the Irish "fold," it could mark the begin­
make it in college. They get the men who are so well disciplined. With the type of Brown 3 9 150 16.7 0 49 14.4
have desire and who are maybe just reach­players they have, I'd run exactly the same Ward 3 7 101 020season with a 1-3 record was 1962 when the Irish finished S-S.Ifthat 
Pinkett 3 6 61 10.2 022
ing their peak." thing ifI was at the Air Force Academy.'' 5 17.2 1 33happens again, even the usually optimistic Faust may become a 
Eason 3 86 manic depressive. 
Green 2 2 48 24.0 029 The Air Force in Washington, D.C., may be For Notre Dame, which has been practic­Williams 3 2 34 17.0 0 19 
14

wasting 2,000 dollars on tiny rubber was­ing against the Falcons' triple option Rehder 3 2 25 12.5 0Pick of the Week. . . While just about every fall team is on the 
Starns 3 2 7 3.5 0 4
hers, but the Air Force in Colorado Springs, formation since last spring, tomorrow's 1 19 19.0 19road this weekend, there's still a chance to see one ofthe best teams 
Cusack 3 0 on campus in action. Coach Michele Gdfman's women's tennis team 
it seems, is making the most out ofa situa­game will be a far cry from years past, when Miller 2 1 9 9.0 0 9 will be playing host to the annual Irish Invitational at the Courtney 
tion which may offer a great deal less in the it was just an easy win and an opponunity Monahan 3 1 -2 -2.0 0 ·2 Tennis Center, beginning at 9 a.m. Saturday. 
eyes ofa highly-recruited high school star. to give the bench-warmers a chance to ------------------­
NOTAEOAME 3 38 538 14.2
While most outstanding prep players play. OPPONENTS 497 1 49 
3 38 13.0 332 


Friday, October 4, 1985 

tunate that I got the opportunity to play 
early.Kovaleski 
One injury after another 
continuedfrom page 1 
"I had to take advantage of the oppor­leading 108 tackles last year. Despite tunity because it might have been my 
Plantz has no regrets on choosing Irish 
being injured for two games, he had 40 only chance. "I feel kind of lucky be­
more tackles than the second-leading cause if it wasn't for the injury the defender, Robert Banks. coaches might not have noticed me and By TRISH SULLIVAN was working with him, so we pushed tent. . . injuries -only this time 
I might be on the bench now." Sports Writer each other a lot. We both wanted to it was his right knee that he sprained. Kovaleski had 18 tackles against Purdue just get out there and play again." Plantz sat out the majority of spring and 16 in the Miami game, which Kovaleski is a proven regular on the H ave you ever had one of those drills and the spring game, but was earned him Chevrolet MVP honors of Irish, but continues to set new goals in days when things keep crop­During his freshmen year, Plantz ac­being penciled in at number-one the contest. He demonstrated his con­order to reach a higher level ofplay. ping up and going wrong -nothing complished what all first-year center by the Irish coaches. Due to 
major really, but those nagging
sistency by registering double-digit to­players are after · he made the his hard work and determined effort, 
tals in seven games, while compiling "I want to do a better job in breaking up things over which we have no con­travelling squad and saw some that's exactly where Plantz found trol? Such is the story of Ron Plantz. 
nine tackles in two others. the passing game," he states. "I want to himselfon opening day of 1985. His four years at Notre Dame have
get more interceptions and break up Kovaleski earned many honors during more passes because I've only broken been filled with injuries, tough As the Irish center, his job includes defeats at the hands of rivals and calling the defensive fronts and
his high school career in New Castle, up a few in the past. I hope to make the constant position changes. But the relaying it to the other players,
Ind., but entered Notre Dame in 1983 big plays to help us out when they are senior from Chicago, Ill., remains
with less publicity than many of the ot­needed." besides being responsible for calling her freshman recruits. He quickly the eternal optimist. the blocking schemes · all before the stepped to the head of his class when Another goal ofKovaleski's is to remain ball is ever snapped. Because of his "I have no regrets about choosing
Mike Larkin suffered a broken arm 10 healthy after a 1984 season which saw experience at all the offensive line days before the 1983 season opener him plagued by nagging injuries. He Notre Dame," says the starting positions, Plantz finds the job well­center ofthe Irish. "This is a fantastic suited to his taients. 
against Purdue, and Kovaleski received broke a finger against Michigan State place and it offers you more than
the starting assignment. and was forced to play with three pins enough opportunities for the
in his right hand. Later against LSU, he "I think we've found the right posi­
future."
He surprised many Irish observers by sprained his wrist, which caused him to tion for me," comments Plantz. "I starting his first nine games, earning play with a cast on his other hand. In feel very comfortable at center. It more minutes than any other freshmen between these injuries, Kovaleski That's a pretty positive affirmation was kind ofdifficult going into some 
defender, and by finishing third on the sprained his ankle against Air Force and coming from someone who has years not knowing where I'd be team in tackles with 62. Kovaleski was slowed down. To top it all off, he every right to think that maybe life playing, but the experience at all the began his ·career by recording eight broke his collarbone before spring dealt him a tough hand. Plantz came positions only helped me in the long tackles, breaking up two passes and practice this year. to Notre Dame as a highly-touted of­playing time midway through the run." causing one fumble against the Boiler­fensive and defensive guard from season. But an injury hampered his makers. He continued his fine play by "My collarbone is fine and I've stayed Gordon Tech High School. During development that year and it was on As an offensive lineman, not much making a team-leading 1 5 tackles healthy so far," says Kovaleski. "My goal his senior year, he compiled 30 solo to thoughts of 1983. glory is received for a job that re­
against Miami and adding 12 in the for this year is to make it through the tackles and 62 assists and was named quires so much of an athlete. But Navy game. year without any scratches or bruises, to the Chicago Sun-Times all-state His sophomore campaign saw a posi­Plantz says that a center's success is or at least major problems." team. tion change to center, where he measured differently than that of College football is tough enough for any played behind all-American Mike most players. 
player, but the challenge is greatly in­Kovaleski's unexpected entry onto the His first week on campus at Notre Kelley and saw action in all 12 con­creased for a freshman who has college football scene two years ago is Dame, the Irish coaches saw how tests that year. He managed to stay "I don't rack up any statistics," ex­practiced for only several weeks and reflected in this economics/ALPA versatile Plantz was and decided to healthy during the season, only to plains Plantz, "but I judge my efforts 
then finds out he is starting shortly major's views on the future. have him begin by playing guard. make up for it in 1984, though. in two ways. One is from the analysis before the first game. Since then, he has seen three posi­of the coaches. On Sundays after the 
"I have no ideas about my future," he tion changes, going from center to Plantz came into his junior season game, Coach Oim) Higgins watches "It was a big shock for me being forced says. "I'll go wherever the ball bounces, quick tackle and back to center. But figuring to split time with Tom every play on film and rates each to start after only being here for about and I'm just living for today." Plantz has taken the adversity of all Doerger at quick tackle. But during snap ofthe ball. Personally, I get my two weeks," Kovaleski recalls. "I felt I his injuries and position changes in an October practice, he strained glory from watching an Allen Pinkett was good enough to play, but I feel for-If Notre Dame expects to defeat Air stride. ligaments in his left knee and was pile up the yardage or a Steve Beuer­
Force, it must employ the same attitude out ofaction until the USC and SMU lein have a good day. The more -----------------as Kovaleski: concentrate on the Fal-"Whenever I got injured it was just Aloha Bowl games. yardage our offense produces the cons and forget last week or next week. more incentive for me to work har­more satisfied I am." This attitude and preparation could al­der," says Plantz. "I worked with The following spring practice had
tme statistics 
low the Irish to play each week with the (strength coach) Gary W eil for yet another position change in store And the more yardage the offense same consistency demonstrated by rehabilitation at the same time for Plantz, but at least one thing produces, the more satisfied Irish
:>PP DEFENSE TMTL·YDS PBU FR BK 
Mike Kovaleski. (outside linebacker) Tony Furjanic remained consis-fansare. • 


030 Furjanic 41 1-1 2 0 0 221 Kovaleski 32 1-6 1 0 0 4.7 Dorsey 26 2·10 0 1 0 t3.3 Lawrence 23 1·3 1 0 0 131 Ballage 19 0-0 0 0 0 6-3 Kleine 16 4-20 0 0 0 59 larkin 16 1·2 1 0 0 31 Figaro 14 0-0 0 0 0 24 Wilson 14 0-0 4 1 0 4 Banks 12 0-0 0 0 0 1-16 Haywood 9 1·3 1 0 0 
17.2 G. Dingens 6 0-0 0 0 0 k51 DiBernardo 6 0-0 0 0 0 1:37 Weissenhofer 5 0-0 0 0 0 
Spence 5 0-0 1 0 0 l TP 
M. Dingens 5 0-0 1 1 0 Butler 5 0-0 0 0 0 
I 18 Kiernan 3 0-0 0 0 0 , 12 
Wells 3 o-o 0 0 1 
, 6 
Gordon 3 0-0 0 0 0 
I 6 
Kunz 1 0-0 0 0 0 
I 6 
Cusack 1 0-0 0 0 0 
I 6 
McCabe 1 0-0 0 0 0 
I 2 ------------------­
NOTRE DAME 254 11-45 12 3 56 65 
PUNT1NG G NO YDS AVG LG LG ------------------­
Sorensen 3 18 804 44.6 57 
35 ------------------­
8 NOTRE DAME 3 18 804 44.7 57 
10 OPPONENTS 3 18 674 37.4 59 5 7 
PUNT RET NO YDS AVG TD LG 7 ------------------­
6 
Wilson 7 56 8.0 0 12 7 
Cusack 2 5 2.5 0 3 
13 ------------------­
NOTRE DAME 9 61 6.8 0 12 35 OPPONENTS 9 53 5.9 0 15 25 
TO 
1 KICKOFF RET NO YDS AVG TD LG 
0 Brown 4 145 36.2 1 93 1 Miller 1 24 24.0 0 24 3 Jefferson 1 5 5.0 0 5 Rehder 1 0 0.0 0 0
LG 
NOTRE DAME 7 174 24.9 1 93
49 
OPPONENTS 3 33 11:o o 21
20 22 
33 29 
19 14 INTRET NO YDS AVG TD LG 4 
19 Haywood 25 25.0 0 25 9 Ballage 0 0.0 0 0 ·2 Wilson 0 0.0 0 0 
49 NOTRE DAME 3 25 8.3 0 25 32 OPPONENTS 5 68 13.6 1 30 
Irish rally in fourth quarter shocks Air Force 
second quarter to replace starter Rick Slager, led Notre Dame to paydirt only five plays after kickoff. This touchdown was negated, however, on the following Irish possession when Montana was
Time Capsule picked offby Falcon cornerbackjim Miller, who had three intercep­by Marty Burns tions• in the game, enabling the Cadets to reach the end zone for a 20-10 lead. 
I 
By MARlY BURNS ... Lawson then added another field goal for Air Force, and when Notre Sports Writer Dame tailback Jerome Heavens (20 carries for 138 yards) fumbled away the ball it looked as though the Falcons would win the battle. n 1975 Air Force finally had Notre Dame under the gun. After being routed three consecutive seasons, the Falcons had the 15th­After the Falcons' Worden flung a 33-yard touchdown pass to make it ranked Irish down, 30-10, in the fourth quarter. Further hindering 30-10, Montana went to work. Notre Dame's field general, who any comeback efforts by Dan Devine's squad was the thin air of the would go on to a career of classic comebacks, drove his team 66 7,000-foot altitude ofColorado, which makes for weary opponents yards for the touchdown. After hitting receivers for pickups of 14 late in the game. and 29 yards, Montana himself took it in, sweeping left for 2 yards 
with I 0:26 remaining on the board. No problem for the Irish, though. They could always go to Montana. Freshman quarterback}oe Montana, that is. Both teams then traded possessions, much to the credit of the Irish 
defense, which managed to shoot down any Air Force scoring strike The poised first-year player from Pennsylvania had come off the ir;t the final quarter. At this point things turned chaotic as Notre bench the week before to rally his Notre Dame team to a 21-14 Dame defensive tackle Jay Achterhoffrecovered a Falcon loose ball fourth-quarter win against North Carolina. And once again Montana at the Irish 3 7 with seven minutes left in the war. did not disappoint his coaches, as he gave an encore performance by conducting the Irish offense to a 31·30 victory. It was now Montana's turn to bomb the opposition. But on the deep 
throw, Air Force's Miller intercepted and ran the ball to the Notre Up until Montana's late scoring blitz, the attack of Ben Martin's Air Dame 15. Miller fumbled on the play when hit, though, and Irish Force attack had been flying along smoothly. In fact, the head coach guard Ernie Hughes threw himselfon the ball. of the Falcons thought his team finally had that elusive win over Notre Dame. The junior Falcons had even used psychological 1bis time the "Cardiac Kid" got it right, hitting haltback Mark warfare, placing a banner in the Irish locker room which read: "It just Mclane on a pass that went 66 yards to the Air Force seven-yard line. ain't fair when you're at 7,250 feet and there ain't no air." Montana then linked upwith tight end Ken MacAfee to make it 30-24 
with 5:29left on the dock. In the first half, the air was filled with footballs as Cadet quarterback Mike Worden had Notre Dame's secondary gasping to catch its Breathing deeply to gain strength, the Irish defense held back the breath. The left-handed Worden (19-of-34, 251 yards) landed his Falcon rush and rerumed the ball to Montana and the Notre Dame passes into the arms of his fteet receivers on three scoring drives, offense at the 45 with 4:34 still to play. An option pitch to tailbackAI netting the Falcons a 13-3 haltime edge. Hunter proved to be the critical blow to Air Force as the sophomore 
speedster ran down the sideline to the two-yard line. Heavens On the one touchdown drive ofAir Force in the first half, Worden crossed the barrier two plays later, and the Irish had their victory. never got off the ground, running a 16-yard bootleg for the score. The two Falcon field goals came from the leg ofkicker Dave Lawson. By proof of the two come-from-behind victories, the Irish also had Lawson, who did not have good enough eyesight to pass his pilot's for themselves a great quarterback. The three seasons in which Mon­test, had the vision on both 46-and 52-yard field goals. tana was officially on the roster (he missed all of 1976 because of 
injuries), Notre Dame boasted a record of 28-7, including two con­In the second half, Montana, who had entered the game in the secutive Cotton Bowl victories. 

Irish Extra-page 4 
Friday,~tober4,1985 




vs.
ame 


By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Wrltn' 

W 
hen Notre Dame travels to Colorado 
Springs for tomorrow's game against 
17th-ranked Air Force, it will be facing the 
team that has been the biggest thorn the side 
ofIrish head coach Gerry Faust. 

''You talk about purgatory, I've gone through purgatory with the Air Force," Faust said. _ 
The Falcons have beaten the Irish three years in a row to reverse a stringof 11 straight Notre Dame victories. Included in the Falcon streak are wins of 23-22 and 21-7 at Notre Dame Stadium the last two years. Given the inconsis­tent play of the Irish to date this season, this might not be the time or place to reverse their fonunes. 
Once again, the Falcons are one ofthe top rus­hing teams in the country, averaging just over 320 yards per game on the ground. In addi­tion, the Falcons have taken to the air for 163 yards a game. These numbers combine to make Air Force the 11th best team in the na­tion in terms of total offense. More impor­tantly, the numbers translate to a 4-0 record. 
The Falcons have not been just beating teams, they've been beating up on them. The Falcons have outscored the opposition by a 51-10 margin. They're second in the nation· in scoring offense and eighth in scoring defense. 
"They're a legitimate team, no if, ands, or buts about it," said faust of the Falcons. "They proved it in the {Independence) Bowl against the number-one defensive team in the country, Virginia Tech. They beat them bad. They're a better team than last year." 
Air Force's offense vs. Notte Dame's defense 
Led by senior quarterback Bart Weiss, the Fal­cons run the same wishbone offense that they used to defeat the Irish last year, 21-7. The 6-0, 172-pound Weiss leads the Falcons in rushing with 325 yards and eight touchdowns. In addi­tion, he has thrown for 614 yards and three touchdowns on 29-of-43 passing, with no in­terceptions. 
"Weiss is a very disciplined quarterback," said Faust. "The thing that's remarkable as far as I'm concerned is that he not. only reads the option well and runs it well, but he throws a lot better this year than last. 
"That makes it even tougher. They can break the 'bone and do a good job breaking it." 
Weiss gets plenty ofhelp in the backfield from fullbackJohnny Smith ( 310 yards, 2 TDs) and halfback Kelly Pittman ( 216 yards, 5 TDs). The other starting hal1back, Randy Jones, has rushed for 57 yards and one touchdown, and has thrown for another. 
It's a safe bet the Falcons won't throw much Saturday (Weiss attempted only six passes last year). When he does throw, however, his favorite target has been wide receiver Ken Carpenter. Carpenter has caught 14 balls for 336 yards and one touchdown. Tight end 
Hugh Brennan has ' snared four passes, ' including two for touchdowns, while Pittman has caught four for 104 yards and one TO. 
Again this year, the Air Force line is best described as small, averaging 24Q pounds. But size doesn't matter much -witness last year's game. 
"Their offense is ap­propriate for their size. They use a lot offinesse to make up for their lack ofsize. They're very quick," said Faust. 

The Irish defensive front of Greg Din­gens, Eric Dorsey and Wally Kleine defenitely has a size advantage, but this hasn't helped before. 
"The biggest problem about defending against the wishbone is that you don't see it week in and week out. Not many teams use it," Faust said. "The wishbone gives one back into the line, a lead back out in front as well as the pitch (back). When you don't work on (defensing the wishbone) every week, you don't perfect it." 
To stop the wishbone, the Irish will need plenty of support from outside linebackers Mike Larkin ( 16 tackles) and Robert Banks ( 12 tackles) as well as cornerbacks Troy Wil­son and Mike Haywood. The Irish also will continue to need the strong inside game of their leading tackler, linebacker Tony Fur­janie ( 41 tackles) and Mike Kovaleski (32 tackles). 
After facing the gun of Jim Everett, the Irish secondary, which is completed by free safety Steve Lawrence and strong safety Pat Ballage, should be in for a needed respite. On the whole, the defense is allowing 343 yards a game. 
Notre Dame's o&nse vs. Air Force's 
defense The Irish offense again will be search­ing for the consis­tency which has eluded it all year. Quarterback Steve 
Beuerlein and tail­back Allen Pinkett are coming off one the worst games in their respective careers. Although he was relieved by Terry Andrysiak at times during the Purdue game, Beuerlein will stan against the Falcons. 
"I have complete confidence in Beuerlein," faust said. "He's a proven player. He's had bad games, but he's bounced back from them. He's played well for us in the past. I don't think you can get down on 
on a guy after a bad game." 
On the year, Beuerlein is 33-of-75 for 465 yards and one touchdown, and has thrown four interceptions. With the loss of sop­homore split end Tim Brown ( 9 catches for 150 yards), Beuerlein's main targets figure to be Reggie Ward ( 7 for I 01 ) and Pinkett ( 6 for 61 ). Pat Cusack ( 1 for 19) or Alvin Miller ( 1 for 9)will replace Brown in the lineup. 
Faust thinks one of the keys to stopping Air Force's wishbone is for the Irish to control the ball. Ifthis is so, Pinkett once again should see a lot ofaction. So far, he has gained 250 yards on 68 carries, a 3. 7 average that has produced two touchdowns. Joining him in the backfield is fullback Frank Starns, who has run for 44 yards on 13 carries. 

The Irish offensive line of Jay Underwood, Tim Scannell, Ron Plantz, Shawn Heffern and Mike Perrino is also much larger than the people they'll be looking at across the ball. Once again, this probably won't matter. 
Although the Falcons have been giving up 31 7 yards a game, they have not allowed many scores. They are allowing an average of only 
10.5 points per game. In addition, they rank eighth in the nation in scoring defense. They not only deny scoring opponunities, they create opportunities for themselves. Falcon head coach Fisher DeBerry tends to play up his team's supposed lack ofsize, but after pas­ting four opponents, not many are taking him seriously. 
A record crowd is expected for the nationally televised game. While excitement is running high in Colorado Springs, DeBerry concedes his team hasn't played quite the schedule Notre Dame has. The Falcon's opponents have included three teams from the Western Ath­letic Conference, ofwhich Air Force is a mem­ber. Like BYU a year ago, Saturday's game against the Irish is a chance for the Falcons to prove to the nation that they are a legitimate team. For the Irish, it's a chance to show the nation that they aren't going to collapse this year. 

Bart Weiss 


PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports editor and some well­

game. The person must pick the  Jeff Blumb  LMTyBurke  Kelly Portoleee  Chuck Freeby  Phil Wolf  ''Norm''  RonC.Uiey  
winner  and  give  the  underdog  Sports EditOI'  Asst. Sports EditOI'  SMC Sports EditOI'  Sports Writer  Asst. Sports Editor  Guest Celebrity  Random Student  
points. Home team is in CAPS.  22·19-1 .524  18-23-1 .429  18-23-1 .429  17-24-1 .405  16-2~1 .381  18-23-1 .429  17-24-1 .405  
(last week: 7-7-o)  (last week: 6-8-0)  (last week: 6-8-o)  (last week: 6-8-o)  (last week: 7-7-o)  (last week: 4-1~)  (last week: 8-6-0)  
PIIT over South Carolina by 3. 5 INDIANA over Northwestern by 11  Gamecocks Wildcats  Panthers Wildcats  Panthers Wildcats  Panthers Hoosiers  Panthers Wildcats  Panthers Hoosiers  Panthers Hoosiers  
Boston College over RUTGERS by 1  Eagles  Knights  Knights  Knights  Eagles  Eagles  Eagles  
MICHIGAN over Wisconsin by 14 lOWA over Michigan State by 16.5 Ohio State over IlliNOIS by 2.5  Badgers Hawkeyes Buckeyes  Wolverines Spartans Buckeyes  Badgers Hawkeyes Illini  Wolverines Hawkeyes Buckeyes  Badgers Spartans Buckeyes  Wolverines Hawkeyes Buckeyes  Badgers Hawkeyes Illini  
AUBURN over Mississippi by 11.5 Washington over OREGON by 8  Tigers Huskies  Tigers Huskies  Rebels Huskies  Tige~ Huskies  Rebels Ducks  Tigers Ducks  Tigers Ducks  
UCLA over Arizona State by 5 KENTIJCKY over Clemson by 2  Devils Tigers  Devils Tigers  Devils Tigers  Devils Tigers  Bruins Wildcats  Bruins Tigers  Bruins Tigers  
Florida over l.SU by 2  Gators  Gators  Tigers  Tigers  Gators  Tigers  Tigers  
Purdue over MINNESOTA by 6.5  Gophers  Boilermakers  Gophers  Boilermakers  Gophers  Boilermakers  Boilermakers  
Baylor over HOUSTON by 4  Cougars  Bears  Bears  Bears  Bears  Bears  Cougars  
AIR FORCE over Notre Dame by 6.5  Falcons  Falcons  Irish  Falcons  Irish  Falcons  Irish  

--, 
"ie~P-~O~i~n~t_______________________________________________F_n_·d~ay~,_o_c_to_b_e_r_4~,I-9_B_S_-~P~ag~e-I_I 
'Number One Irish Fan' speaks to Notre Dame 
This is for all you Irish fans -hot, lukewarm or even cold. 
Well, I'm back once again to share some thoughts before the '85 football team goes any further. Two things before I begin: first, there probably will not be many underclassmen who know me. That leads to my second thought. Everything I am going to present is constructive and not destructive. Also, it is all my own inner feelings; I haven't been swayed by sports writers, sportscasters or fans. 
Keith A. Penrod guest column 
Now that that is out ofthe way, I would like to get down to the real reason I am writing: our "Fighting Irish." 
Having been around and associated with Notre Dame programs and people for many years, I am close to the administrators, the ath­letic people on the second floor of the ACC, tilt-coaches, players, students and fans. I will always be a truefan. I am in the middle for I am not a student, a player, coach, employee or relative. So here it comes. 
We have a very talented group of players andquality coaches (even though we are 1-2); but as a team, this hasn't shown. One thing I have noticed for each ofthe past five years, we are among the top institutions in the country when it comes to recruiting. I'd say that when you talk about "blue chippers," we have what I call a whole team of"blue chippers;" not just one year, butfour years ofthem! 
These young men come from good high school teams with their own talents, desires, enthusiasm and emotion, along with strong academic backgrounds. They come to an in­stitution filled with tradition and pride, ready to carry on that tradition. The academic tradi­tion continues, but after a player's freshman year, what happens to the other four things I mentioned? 
Before I go any farther, I want people to un­derstand, as God is my witness, I love Coach Gerry Faust. He is a great man. A wonderful person. A coach who in his own way is trying to do the best service (for it is not a job) by way of the Lord, as He directs. A man who al­ways keeps God first, as I do. A man I consider a very dear and close friend, one I cherish. I have told Coach Faust right from the begin­ning, I'd be there no matter what! I love Coach Faust, I won't question him and Iwill continue to back him! 
Unlike in the past, I have only been to three or four practices, and I haven't been to a game yet this season, but I have seen each of the three on television. I have also watched them on tape anywhere from three to five times apiece. 
That brings us back to the four elements: talents, desires, enthusiasm and emotion. Feelings which increase with the excitement, inspiration and honor ofbeing able to play on a Notre Dame Fighting Irish football team, with all its tradition and pride. The feelings increase to a point that only the young men will ever know. 
Enthusiasm is one big part, but I feel "emotion" is SO percent ofan individual's per­formance, especially when it comes to being on a team and partiCipatingin athletics. This is the biggest inner self, besides the Almighty One, which lowers or elevates one in life and in sports. 
You can have a group of young men with very little talent, butwith a lot ofheart, desire, enthusaism and especially emotion, and they will go a long way, all the way. I've seen it; we have all seen it. It happens all around the country, but especially here at Notre Dame. 
The opposite also happens. 
I have seen talented and enthusiastic 
players -a Pinkett, a Furjanic, a Kleine, a Dor­
sey, a Larkin not go all the way. I could go on 
and on, but it hurts me in a way that only our 
Father, Mother Mary and all the saints will 
ever know. 

In the same breath, I will say to Coach Faust: 
you ace the coach ofthe Fighting Irish football 
team and I respect you now as I did five years 
ago. 

Gerry, Coach Faust, Fuzzy, my friend, these 
young men can and will playyour game. But 
for Our Lady, whom you and I love deeper 
than deep, let them play tbeir game. 
One last comment, Our Lord bent but He 
did not break. I don't like to admit it, but if I 
had not bent, I'd not be this far! 
To the team, may I say that I may not be 
there in body, but I am with you in spirit! 
I do not knowifthe Irish ofold liked Falcon, 
but let's make a feast ofAir Force! 
God bless you! 
(The title given me four years ago,) just me, 
"Notre Dame's No. 1 Fan," 
Keith A. Penrod 

Keith A. Penrod was named "Notre Dame's No. 1 Fan"four years ago by tbe Notre Dame Athletic Department. 
P.O. BoxQ 
Registrar's office hours not in students' interest 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing this formal complaint con­cerning the transgression of our students' rights. Upon arrival at the Administration Building, little did we realize that we would not be able to obtain our student identifica­tion cards. We only arrived three minutes after 4:30p.m., which we soon found out was too late. Previously, we were denied service during our free lunch hour due to the Registrar's arbitrary closing. 
The question which we hereby pose is: 
"Why would this one essential office room 
have such bizarre working hours so as to be 
closed during students' only free times in the 
class day?" 
Also, after patiently waiting for their assis­
tance, they threatened to have us thrown out 
by security. The poor treatment we received 
was definitely uncalled for considering that it 
isour time and we are the future leaders ofthe 
University. 
S. Serra ]. Quinn 
D. Delong Morrissey Manor 
Cable television at ND not a boost to social life 
Dear Editor: 
Although we appreciate Vince Willis' in­itiative in trying to improve the social life here at Notre Dame, we do not believe that a majority of the students come here because they "want their M-TV". 
Sitting around on a weekend night watch­ing a replay ofthe motocross on ice campioin­ships is certainly not a viable alternative to the alcohol policy, and without doubt would not be "the greatest thing to happen to this campus in a long time." 
With the quality movies shown at Cushing and the variety of sports already present on network television, we can surelyfind abetter way to spend the conservative estimate of n 00,000 that would be needed to install basic cable to the campus. One of the main purposes of the alcohol policy was to bring the focus ofthe social life out ofthe rooms and into the mainstream of campu~ life. Cable television would only make it easier for stu­dents to stay in and not attempt to "make their own fun." 
The efforts and ideas ofstudents are neces­sary to improve Notre Dame's social life, since the administration has pro\>en incapable of findng a replacement for alcohol as the focal point of student life. If not, the South Quad, one morning, may be rudely awoken by the construction on Stonehenge Ill. 
Mark Erpelding john Keegan john Coyle AlumniHall 
Safranek must practice what column preaches 
DearEditor: 
On Sept. 18 you published a rambling essay in which Steve Safranekargued against the use of"ad hominem" arguments. He offered as an example of an "ad hominem" argument a phrase ("right wingery") which he lifted out of context from a letter by Ann Pettifer. Through a hackneyed rhetorical device, he then proceeded to launch his own "ad hominem" attack on Pettifer. He wrote: "One could respond just as easily that (Ann Pettifer) only responded to my article because its con­tent challenged her husband's earlier article in The Observer."This is a cheap rejoinder. 
Why does Safranek not respond to Pettifer's arguments? Why does he insinuate Pettifer only wrote in supportofher husband? Is it that Pettifer, being a woman, cannot voice her own opinions and convictions? Does Safranek believe that professors' wives only write in defense of or assurrogates for their husbands? 
I will not label Safranek a misogynist. But his rejoinder to Pettifer is misogynous. Fol­lowing Safranek's advice, I write to condemn his ·attitude and only incidently to criticize him personally as the promoter of such as at­titude. 
josephA. Buttigieg DepartmentofEnglish 

New Irish leprechaun supports all ND sports 
DearEditor: 
In the face of downtrodden spirits among 
the student population, I would like bring at­
tention to what I think is a display ofthe true 
spirit ofNotre Dame. 
To some people, football and basketball are 
the "only sports that matter." This has been 
the attitude ofthe leprechauns ofthe past, but 
not ofthis year's school mascot.JeffAnhut has 
been to several other varsity competitions 
this year in full uniform. 
I would just like to say that as a member of 
one of those "other teams" and as a Notre 
Dame student, I appreciat~ the support ofour 
leprechaun! Thanksjeffl 
Tracy C. Thoman Notre Dame student 

The Irish head coach 
was in over his head 
DearEditor: 
This letter is not sent out ofanger and disap­pointment because Notre Dame lost to Purdue by a score of 35-17. Instead, it is sent out ofdisbeliefand embarrassment because of the way Notre Dame lost to Purdue on Satur­day and to over 20 other teams on previous Saturdays in the last four years ofmediocrity. 
Otherwise intelligent and talented football players have embarrassed themselves and their school because oftheirseemingly stupid and below average performances on the playing field. Their performance is no fault of 
their own making. Notre Dame by any measure and without a doubt has many ofthe most talented and intelligent players in the country. In my opinion, the games Notre Dame has won in the last four years have only been from the sheer amount of talent on our side. 
The winning difference for Purdue on Saturday, and many other teams on previous Saturdays, came in the head coaching posi­tion. Gerry Faust did not have a handle on the game Saturday, unlike Purdue Coach Leon Burtnett. Faust's teams have played poorly and have been too conservative. Frankly, Faust has never had a handle on the head coaching position at Notre Dame. 
Since Faust came to Notre Dame, many ofus have sincerely hoped and prayed he would succeed not only for Notre Dame, but for him­self. No one would question his dedication to Notre Dame and his desire for the team and its players. He knows no stranger and most people are fond of him; however he is in a position way over his head and one he may never fully grasp. Therefore. it would not be in the best interest of the Note Dame tradition, the hundreds ofthousands offans, students or 
alumni, the very talented players looking for­ward to professional careers after college or to Faust to let him continue as head coach for another year or more. 

WesGainey Indianapolis.fnd. 

The Viewpoint 
Department 
P.O. BoxQ 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton BuSiness Manager..... ................ Dav1d Stephen1tch
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. Wilham J. Highducheck 
News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager......... . . . . . ........... Jim Hagan 
The Observer 15 the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the 
Saint Mary's Execut1ve Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager....................... John A. Mennell admmistration of either mst1tution. The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb 
Sible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opin1on of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ................................... Joe Murphyavailable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opimons on Photography Editor ..... , ................... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through letters, is encouraged. Copy Chief ....................................... ...... Frank Upo Founded November 3,1966 
Sports Briefs 
The ND baseball team will participate in the Brad­ley University Fall Baseball Tournament tomorrow and Sunday in Peoria, Ill. The Irish will meet Illinois State, Bradley and St. Xavier College in the tournament. -Tbe Observer 
The novice fencing program will begin on 
Monday at 6:30p.m. in the fencing gym above Gate 4 ofthe ACC. Any students, both men and women, who are interested may attend the first session in athletic attire. 'Thereafter, practices will be every Monday and Wednesday from 6:30p.m. to 8:30p.m. For more in­formation, contact fencing coach Mike DeCicco. -The Observer 
I 

Friday, October 4, 1985 -page 12 
In NVA cross country yesterday, two of Grace Hall's three teams placed in the top four of eight teams competing. Grace's A team won the meet with 56 points, while the B squad was fourth with 90 points and the C team finished eighth with 220. Mor­risey was second with 64 points, St. Ed's was third with 84, Cavanaugh fifth with 135, Stanford sixth with 151 and Flanner seventh with 197. The top individual finisher was St. Ed's Dave Warth, who ran the course in 13:23. Dan Whiteside of Flanner was second in 13:30, and Sorin's Matt Laboe was third in 13:37.. The 
Obseroer 
The ND-Air Force football game will be broadcast live tomorrow on WVFI AM-64. "The Irish Today" pregame show begins at 1:55 p.m., and Pete Pranica and Vito Gagliardi will have the play-by-play at 2:30p.m.· Tbe Observer 
Correction 
Because of a reporting error, several things were incorrect in yesterday's story on the Sportsmed 10-kilometer run. The tun will be Sunday, Oct. 6, start­ing at 2 p.m. south ofthe Century Center in downtown South Bend. Cost ofentry is 113, and the num-· ber for further information is 232-3034. Also, while entries may be picked up at WNDU-TV, they must be turned in at Pro Health ofSouth Bend. 

The Obsen•er :\otrt· Damt· offic.:c:. loc.:atnl on tht· third lloor of l.af'orlunt· Student Ct•ntt:r. aLTt:pts dassific:d ad\'c:rthing from l) a.m. until 1 p 111. \tonda\ through Frida\. The Ohst>rr·er Saint \tan·.., olfif.:t·. lot·atnl on t ht· thard lloor of Haggar Collt:gt· Cc:ntn. a~..:n·pts c.:las~illnl' !rom 12::\0 p m until-~ p.m.. :'\ton­day though Frida\. lkadlint· ti,r nn.t-da\ dassillnb h -~ p m. All classifkc.Js must ht· prepaid. dthn in pc:r.,on or h\ mail.< :hargc.· h I 0 n·nts pt:r fin: t·harat·
Classifieds 
tt:rs t:r c.Jav. 

FOUND: FOOTBALL. TICKETS. HELP!!! NEED RIDE TO NEW HAVEN Have ticketa lor ALEX OeGRASSI II i~ SMC-NO SUMMER TRAVEL:LONDON .RUCE IPIIIINOITEEN PATRICK MOORE, PLEASE CALL AREA FOR OCT. BREAK! CALL SARAH lerelted pleaae call AMY )231H30B. PROGRAM MAY 21·JUNE 20 WITH Won't be coming to NO for the NAVY 
LAURA AT 272·3764 TO CLAIM THEM. ·3757 IN SCOT.& Game.
NOTICES 

TRAVEL IRE. FRANCE: Need 1 USC GA lor So cal. Dad. WiM pay COURSES IN But, my parentl ARE, and they thmk I at­FOUND-NO SWEATSHIRT ON BURKE good$. call Pete at 2353. BIO,BUS,HIST,MUSIC,SOCI,AND ready GOLF COURSE. CALL JIM AT 4663 TO 
THEATRE. ROME PROGRAM JUNE 1 &-have tixfor them. I don't. COVER ME.and 
TYPING AVAILA81..E 

IDENTIFY NEED 4 TICKETS FOR MISSISSIPPI JULY 14 WITH TRAVEL IN sell me you111'(2) CALL RANDY-1855 287-4082 
FOR SALE 
GAME IN A REAL BAD WAY!!! WlU. PAY FRANCE.GER,SWITZ,& ITALY; FOUND: Football Ticket Book, Cal Mic­BIG BUCKS!!!!! CALL PAUL D. AT 3642 COURSES IN BUS,HIST,ANO ITALIAN. HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
hele • 1250 to identify. .. ..........•....•... ···-···························· OR3640 MTG ON OCT 14 1 CARROLL HAPPY BIRTHDAY! TYPtNQ CALL CHNI ZJ4.e117 
19n Oldl Cut Sup Brougham: 350 V-8; HAU{SMC) 17:00 PM. FOR INFO CALL HAPPY BIRTHDAY' LOST: ALRIGHT, I'VE HAD IT. ON 9/24 pa,pb,A/C,T-Topi,CruiM,Recent Eagle I NEED 3 USC GA'S CALL FRANK 1424 PROF A.A. BLACK 284-4460 OR 272-FRANK HAUGER EXPERTTYPING2n-8534AFTER5:30 
MY BlUE BACK PACK WAS STOlEN Sta, 1 OOw Cullom Stereo. Sharp! Robert 1 IF YOU DON'T HAVE TIXS AT LEAST 3726. WE LOVE YOU1!!1 FROM THE SOUTH DINING HALL. I 256-9346. AND SPUD A HAPPY
CALL WISH MOM, DAD. GREG, MARY, ALEX AND 
Wordpr~ng 

HAVERUNTHISAOFORAWEEKANOI BOAY!!! UMANPLUNGE BABY, MONICA, JEREMY, TRICIA. 
c.11 Dolor• 2n-6045 

HAVE HAD NO LUCK. I AM REALLY 1965 CHEVY 11, a dMiic:. no rull, ruc11 UMAHPLUNGE ANDY, WIENER. BREATH. GOI<EL PISSED' IT WAS AN OLD THING, 8UT I grNt, $2000,233-7463. UMAHPLUNGE PERSON. OORIE. AND ROSE. WANT IT BACK. MY ROOMMATE'S NEED PENN ITATE TIXIII Explore a new horizon ... take the Uctlen BUSINESS EXPRESS. INC. 
MAROON JACKET WAS IN THERE AND 1~ncll color TV, 1 yeer old $150 mull Pkmge. A 48 hr. inner city imrTMnion HAPPY 18TH COWBOY, I'M GLAD
Wordproceeeing and typing 

IF YOU DON'T GIVE ANYTHING ELSE aell2397632 or 2725612 Wil trade 2 Navy GA'e during Chriatmu break. Experience oon­YOU'RE HERE!! LOVE. CARRIE ROO 272-8827 
BACK, PLEASE ATLEAST GIVE ME For 2 Penn Stale GA'I ditiOI'll of poverty and injuatice while i~ THE JACKET BACK. IF YOU HAVE IT. For ....: Apple llf...wal• Pl'lnter­"you've got Penn atate tlx, creuing your awareneu of what is being PLEASE SHOW SOME COMMON '-than a yeer old. Herdy Uled. Allting c:8ll Lany at 2082 done to alleviate theee probleml. Do the TO KAREN, I KNOW A WOMAN.
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU. 
DECENCY AND CAU. 3884. THANK $350 c.ll Tom at 2308 alter Bpm PLUNGE! UMAH PLUNGE LOVELY IN HER BONES, WHEN SMALL MRS. COKER. 233-70011 YOU VERY, VERY MUCH! 
u•AHPLUNGE BIROS SIGH, SHE WILL SIGH BACK AT FOR SALE: 50 yard ~ne tickell to ALEX UMANPLUNGE THEM; AH. WHEN SHE MOVES. SHE
S1o.al0 WUKLY/UP IIAIUNG C. LOST NAVY BlUE JANTZEN BACK· 
DeGRASSI. SUNDAY 8:00pm, STEPAN NEED TIX FOR MISS. GAME! WILL PAY MOVES IN MORE WAYS THAN ONE.
CUUMI NO QUOTAS! IINCUIILY 
$4.00ATTHE DOOR. TOP DOLLAR! REALLY!!! CALL MARY THE SHAPES A BRIGHT CONTAINERPACK ON WEDNESDAY, OCT. 2
IN IMdlED MJ8H SB.F· 
AT 1323 IF YOU'RE WIUING TO 0: WHAT'S ONE GOOD THING ABOUT CAN CONTAIN (EU.EN TOO!)
AROUND 12:30PM IN SOUTH DINING
ADE'MieED ENVB.OPI: auccna, 
NEGOTIATE!! LSArS? A>THEY HAVE IMMEDIATEHALL. CONTENTS INCLUDED HP-11
PO IIOX 470CIG, W~OCK. IL 
CALCULATOR, SEVERAL SEATING! GOOD LUCK, Kllllll •EWAIIE 401,403,404.411. AND ESPE· 
10011. 
CIALL Y 405-STEDS YOUR NIGHTSNOTEBOOKS AND FOLDERS, AND AN 

TICKETS
AERODYNAMICS TEXTBOOK For Sale: 2 Senior USC Tickets. Belt Of· LESTER BUTTCHEESE SAY: GOOO ARE NUMBERED' Junior u.eue·a THRIFT SHOP. One day fer. Jl3867 Ann LUCK ON LSAT'I, RACHE!I
PLEASE RETURN TO LOST AND
onty. Oier 30,000 new Wid ueed itenw. FOUND, 2ND FLR. LAFORTUNE AS 
OCTOBERFEST ia coming...

Clothel, furniture, hou....,..., pillnta. 
SOON AS POSSIBLE I NEED USC GA'I Have c:alh & home need 2-4 G.A.'a for Army. call Paul et UNCONTROLLABLE:WELCOME BACK OCTOBERFEST ie coming..
craftl. Chriatmu ilema toya, riqu•. 
GA'Ifor trade: Cal DAVE 1712 3510 TO NO! ONE MORE DAY ... DMB! JCK!· WATCH FOR MORE DETAILS'! 
uled auto. P«*ed Bid auction. s.t. Oct. 
HOTSTUFFLo.TPOCKET WATCH-SILVER.NO

5, 8:30-3:30. St. Joe Cly 4-H F-.,oundl. 
CHAIN. LOST NEAR NSH ON SEPT.26. Help I need 2 Army GA'I. Have 1 USC HEY BOY· You loolc might line with them Freeadmillion, .50J*kjng. VISA&,.._ 
IF FOUND CALL BOB 234·5579 Stud and/or cuh to trade; call Ned 1043 4 ARMY Ga'1 Now you know that I know Kevin; Thankl for a FANTASTIC yeBI. I IIOSTON CLUI •ut IOITON CLUBlerc.rd accepted. 
that you wanllo IIIII ·em to me, 10 come wouldn't ltift be here if it weren't for you. BUI •OSTON CLU. •u1 Oc:1ober IrS ME AGAIN!! MY TWO-TONE DENIM I NEED 4 TIX FOR ND-UIC GAME. over here now-and I'm a give you top dol­You mean the world to me. I love you! Mic­Break cal Paul (233-8051) or Micnael
Profeeeionlll word Pf()CMiing and typing. JACKET WAS STOLEN FROM THE SOH 
W/TAKE211TS OF 2. CALL2116-1711. lar. call1097 and Ilklor Ted. THANX hele (287-6722) tolign-up.llrt..$80depoalt
'. Convenient location on N. Ironwood. c.ll 9/26. TO THE CULPRIT: IF ANY OF THE to: Lafortune Main Lobby on lloncllly2n-4220 tor _,pointment. 
RIGHT PEOPLE SEE YOU WEARING NEED 2 GA'S FOR ARMY. CAU. 284· BRIDGET'S BARGAINS: Good during all t:J0-7:00pm
I need one ticket for USC-NO. call 25&­····················-..... ·········· ·····-········ 5523 open houl'l on apecified dllya. MON &THAT YOU WIU BE SHOT DEAD-SO

COFFEEHOUSE AT STEPAN Enjoy 5175. YOU MIGHT AS WEU RETURN TO 400 
TUES • $.60 DRAFTS...WEO • $.75 HAPPY 22NO TO THE BEST R.A. Agood food Wid the mueic: of jizz mulic:iM LYONS-112815. THANX!!! NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE ARMY GAME. ROOT BEER SHOTS...THURS ·$1.00 GIRL COULD ASK FOR-MARY
ALEX DeOAASSI. TICKETS:$4.00 Itthe WANT A PRO TO WORK YOU OVER? 
CAll SUE 284-54n. MOLSONS ..FRI • $.75 WATERMELON HRONCHEK!! WE LOVE YOU, MARY'door. CONCERT TIME: 8:00PM My Iiiier the ~..can "do it" to you SHOTS ... $.35 HOT MUNCHIES DAILY. LOVE. B.P.'S 3-NORTH. 
in exchange lor 1 USC ticket. GA/Student I NEED QAa FOR AIIIIY & UIC.272­
ticket-no pi'ef. Pleue call 2968 with an ol·ALL DRESSED UP AND NO PLACE TO uoe Paquito: GOOD LUCK on the LSAT1 George,

fer. (You won'1 regret it.)

GO? Come to the COFFEEHOUSE AT 
FOR RENT 
tomorrow' Hope you do better than I did. We've been itchifl{l to wiah you aSTEPAN Enjoy the mueic of ALEX FREE SEX FOR 2 ARMY GA'S CAll Love. your lirlt year at Will. epeedy recovery. Get weiiOOfl'
DeGAASSI. SUNDAY 8:00pm, $4.00 at Need many USC GA tix. Wll pay bigCLAYTON AT 1373ALSOPYCASH Solie and Sue
door. buckl! Pteue c.rl289-34n. FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEOED.NOTRE DAME GOT ARMY TIX? P/U PHONE & CALL USC GAME. WASHINGTON DC CLUB FALL BREAK
NEED 2 GA'S for CALL APTS.112/mo.CALL ALICE 232-6089. TONY 1893. BUS SIGN-UPS: TUES 10/08 7-8PM HI THERE, BETH, YOU SMILEYFACE! A 
LAURA3839 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE· $65 ROUND BIRTHDAY WISH FUU OF NON-STOP 
Male houa.nate needed 1/4 mile from M--Ill liE? I PAID GOOD MY RICH OLD AUNT'S LAST WISH IS TRIP. LAUGHTER TO Y'ALL. LITTLE JOE NO 133/mtllutil.272-3832 MONEY FOR M.S.U. TKS. NOW I NEED SAYS "BIG ANN"! MARY SAYS HAVE A 
LOST/FOUND I 
TO SEE THE ARMY AND USC GAMES. 

2 USC GA'S. GIVE STEVE A CALL AT RIDERS NEEDED TO ROCHESTER. NY PRACTICAL BIRTHDAY! YOUR BUDS
IF POSSIBLE 2 GA'S.284-4129 GRAD ROOM $100/MO 2n·2045 3318 BEFORE BREAK. WERE TALKING FOR OCT. BREAK. LEAVING FRI. OCl. ATNO/SMC
LOST: K8Na Oriv.,. Uc:enM. Robert 
BUSINESS' 18 AND RETURNING FRI. OCT. 25 INCoover, 1025 Emery Rd., LAMenc:e • 
RENT A COLOR TV OR MIACOWAVE TIME FOR PEP RALlY. CALL FRANK
~. 6F.II75Ibl. Oeec>erate! If found OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR AT 1549. NYC RESIDENTS NEED NOT To the BLOND MOP: HAPPY 2111
c.rl288-54<47. ~! 
WIU. PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY CALL. BIRTHDAY MARC HAUNZ CITY/COUEGATE RENTALS 
PERSONALS

GA'S AND 2 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT 
INC.,2597661 WE LOVE YOU' LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. 
1733/1757 EH! MECS ET NANAS QUI SONT ALLES OeniH,Rodent.Anne,Wendy.A Fag &

REWARD OFFERED. IF FOUND, A ANGERS ET LES AUTRES FRAN­Menace
~EASE CONTACT ALICE 232-6089. You are never given e wilh without COPHONES' VENEZ A LA OEUZIEME 
aJto beirlfl given the po-ro make il REUNION DU CERCLE FRANCIS!
LOST: Set of 15 keys on two imerc:on­NEED 2 ARMY GA'S. CAU JIM AT 1489. 
true. MARDI, LE 8 OCTOBRE A PARTIR DE AnENTION "DRINK IF" ME...EM:
WANTED
nected ringa on 9/19/85. II you think that
r. 20:15 A LA FORTUNE DANS LA SALLE OCTOBER BREAK IS SOON AP·
you have found them. pl-. c:8ll Jon at DE LA NOUVELLE ORLEANS!! PROACHING!
2n-8171 or 23$-6471. Pleale leave your NEED USC TIX!!!!!! AS MANY Love, T&O 


name and number. Need ride lo 0rtt011 any weekend. Cal G.A./STUDENT AS POSSIBLE!!! WILL -Richard Bach. lluaiona. NEED RIDERS TO DENNISON OHIO 
Maria4174. PAY WEU.-CALL MOLLY AT 2870 
,) THIS WEEKEND IF INTERESTED
:oet: Gold .-tcll;Pulur.~ Oeveland 
PLEASE CALL 4431 IMMEDiATELY ANYONE INTERESTED IN BEING ON AStreet.eom.ct Katie al 284· 5157 NEED RIDERS TO BOSTON AREA FOR PLEASE HELP AN UNFORTUNATE OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR. FOR MORE INFORMATION COMMITTEE TO RESEARCH AND OCTOBER BREAK SENIOR whoM family haa never teen CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 PLAN A SPECIAL SAINT MARY'SLOST: dk. title bedlpack in eouth dining LEAVING AFTER ARMY GAME ON Notre Dame!!'! Do you have 3 GAllor the BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Hey th8i"e, Weird One! Jull wanted to lfJr CALENDAR CONTACT MICHEUEhal9130 eround 5:50p.m. contentl: Tl35 SATURDAY, OCT. 18. USC game? Wil pay $! Unda V. \'OU know that you're very much ep­4405, BETSY 51n, KATIE 4420, ANGIE 
'*<:ulalor. eyegt .. and ceM. piril 
CALL PRISCILLA AT 284·5312 (219)2n-6856 Help u1 avoid the BNntown bluM. Give ;-recielecJ. Love. A Fellow NSH81" 5157.
highlighr.t' band muaic:. calrinet reedl ua a ride to Bolton or viCinity lor Oc:1oberand mouthpiece, beginning French HEY YOU I Need cuh laat? Got 1 NAVY brealc. c.ll Manl4174. HAPPY BIRTHDAY SHAWN-BOY!! JUNIOR NIGHT OUT'!' TUES OCT. 8thtalboolt, II. title notebook, two computer RIDE NEEDED TO MADISON WIS THIS ticket (atud or GA)? We can make a OM!· 
GOOD LUCK ON LSATS, TOO ..HANG AT BEACON BOWLdieca. If aomeone h•il pl-.c:8ll Sloan WEEKEND OCT 4-6 PLEASE CAU. Name your plica (it doean't have to be THE RUSSIANS ARE COMING! OC· IN THERE· SATURDAY THERE'LL BE
j al 4553 or bring to 838 P .E. No quMiiOI'll ······················· ········· 
STACEY4118 money!) Cal13731ate. 
TOBER 11 "TIME FOR ROSES AND WINE"·AN PONG. TONIGHT'S THE NIGHT. I'M
liked.
) 
AVID ADMIRER LOOKING FORWARD TO IT. PING Riden needeci:Anyone intereated in ren­WI-" to... 
ALL THE SMIRNOFF ONE CAN ting a c:ar to go home to Florid 1 for Fll
J 
HANDLE!! OCTOBER 11 ODE TO KEVIN ON HIS BIRTHDAY TO MY OBNOXIOUS NEW YORKER ALL NCIHTII WHOEYIII BrNII cal Nancy at 4032 Wlahtobuy WHAT TO GET A TEXAN GUY? I BUD: DO YA WANNA DANCE TO ".aMOftD" IIY JORDACHE TWC> GA or eludent tla for 
TODAY THOUGHT PERHAPS A PAISLEY TIE. "CLEEK. CLEEK. CLEEK" ON OCT. TONE Delli .IACKIT FROII THI $$$$SSW ANTED$$$$$$ LIU or UIC ..,._ 
IEHIORS BUT I DECIDED THAT'S NOT COOl, 11th? WEU HAVE A LITILE ELFEN IDH'I WOIIKIM' COAT lltACK ON Travel enthueiutl wanted to join the na­Clll Chuck at 1104. 
Poai·Graduate MAYBE A JUMBO TOWEL WOULD DO MAGIC! LUV, KEEBLER 
1121, I WOULD APPIIIQA'ft ITI tion'l molt repu..,.. Cplpua Rep. Slllel ..........., 
Opponunitl• Day A BOWL OF MACARONI AND CHEESE, IWTURH UIMMti.Y. I VM.UI IT TNm. Earn unlimited c:ommitlionllnd 
12to 4 OR MACHO NACHOS SURE TO RIDE NEEDED TO CENTRAL PA FROM Vart HIQHLY AND ITI THe OHLY Free lripa promoting Slo and &.c:h lripa. 
patio, Cenltlf lor Social Conc:ema JVC, PLEASE. AND THEN I FOUND THE SOMEONE GOING EAST ON I 80 FOR ONII HAVI T1L ~.10 PLUM c.ll SUNCHASE TOURS INC. Today' 1· need 4 tiu to army c.rl2723491 (gea) HCA, Channel, more!!! PERFECT GIFT, TO GIVE HIS 20TH A OCTOBER BREAK! CAU. MAURA 284· oiU8T DROP IT OFF AT 400 LYONe DR 800-321-5911 
LIFT, HERE'S HOPING THAT YOUR 4200 CALl. 2111. NO QUDTlONI AIKID. NEEDED· USC GA'I. Wll pay top Sl c.ll 
Need 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE DAY GOES GAILY, WITH THIS AD IN THA*YOUII WANTED: Ueed Telephone Anewering Al287·9196. 
USC GAME, Pl'eferably in the Senior MC­YOUR FAVORITE OAIL Y!! WIDE MOUTH CLAM UP! We've only jult Machine. Cal Todd, 277·2640. 
tion .... WIU. PAY $$$$1!!! Undl V. begun THE DEMONIC BLACK CAR LOST: a REO women'l )acUt in the I NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S CAU MIKE AT (219)2n-6856. HEY Z1! FLASHERS lilnry or in Cuehing. ~EASE!!! c:onl8ct NEED RIDE TO DETROIT AREA ON 1605 OR STOP BY 304 GRACE. THE 
HAVE THE .EIT BIRTHDAY! Robin 11 x4030 If found. FRIDAY OCTOBER 11th. WIU. SHARE DIVE!! 
Student photograph• ne«<ed for M.Jmni LOVE. JEN HERB, You Big TUNA, Have 1 throb­EXPENSES ~EASE CAU KAREN 284· 
~ng 0c:1.12 at Sacred Heert c.11 Z2&Z3 bing 19th b-day you H.B.H.A.! WE LUV U! LOST:~ 10 folder with looblllidlell 4244. HAVE $$$.Need 1 USC & 1 Navy bx.c.ll 2n-se13 after 6. Demoncllic:, Auhercllic, C.chic: and licenee. Loat Friday m. 1t a good Paul3467. I*1Y with eome great p.ap~e. I'm Faltidoul, finicky and IeithIui mai~ 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES-Chile KATHY ~RIIANN HERE IS THE SKIP, 11'1 gmNt to have you bKk' LUV, .,_..,"--0. MBC,283-1782. 1enance 1-.n wanted lor BRIOOETS I'M IN OESPERA TE NEED OF 2 ARMY Slide Show/Oiacusaion with Stacy Hen­PERSONAl YOU'VE BEEN WAITING BITSY ~be 21 and terrific. Apply in~-GA'S!! ~EASE CAll 284-4310. $$$ neeeey/Ciaude Pomerleau. Monday Oc­FOR!!!! FROM YOUR FIRST FLOOR Lo.T=-ro.n Janeport llleceq.ck Ilion­
tober 7, at the escfrom 7-8pm. BUD. Hole KAREN LOGSDON in MEXICO -nltl 1ft Iouth Dlnlftl Hill. ConlaiM LET'S TALK CASH. I NEED ONE USC Hope ll'a going bell• Great to talk to
NEED 4TH MALE FAST 4 NEARBY APT. 
U,..FNNh~ IR 1121Mllt1/4EL. 288-4753(LATE) GA OR STUD TICKET. CAU DAN 1208. AnN_ SERIOUS RUNNERS TERRY G.Q. KNOWS WHO THE FLING QUEEN you! Enjoy that tun while you can! Think· c1 aaala I'd 1M -happJ puppy If 
FOX RUN AT PURDUE 10/19 ENTRY IS A~D SHE IS A HOT MAMA FILLET'! ing of you. much love. BANOABOO ,au -* rwlum .._,no queellona RIDE NEEDED TO/FROM TERRE ..need UIC GA'I anciiTU nx FORMS IN LAFORTUNE ?'S CAll ....._~ KARIN at 21t-4zal any HAUTE FOROCT.BREA!<. WIUSHARE Nng to be ~ve cal 2.32-IN7 DREW3287 k, i havethit!Owleeling thaTyou·re gone HOW PETI't' AND INSECURE CAN I'IOUr. COSTS. MARlA • 5193 forever. mi ..you too. love s-tc:n YOU BE JEAN? GROW UP!! 
The Observer 


2314 So. Bend Ave.(next to Martins) Call for appointment 
++•••••••••••••••••+ 
: proudly : + announces + + ou~.. + 
: Grand Opening : 
: Celellrationll : 
: Lookfor the big balloon and :+ find big grand opening savings + 
: * Stop In and eeta FR.E.E : + Champs T·shlrt plus + : other gfve-awa~s : 
+ *Register to win:
+ 
Z-$1 oo.oo lift eertlfleata

+ 
several una 1H11s

+ 
naan3J other prlsa

+ 
(no purefaase neeasa~ to enter}

+ 
~o 7.0FF WITH ND OR aMC LD. 


+ 

.,.,...fl.aJJ 
"Aer... fN• ...._ • JCI••'• C.llar" T • Jf.p J..a, ..t.IM,
+ ••LI4+.Silkscreening &Sporting Goods +

++••••••••••••••••+t 
.. 

Irish tri-captain 
Friday, October 4, 1985 -page 13 
Miles likes tough soccer games 
By GREG STOHR Miles' efforts have been largely Though a natural forward, Miles 
Sports Writer unrewarded this season as the now sees action as a midfielder as 
striker/midfielder has managed just well as at striker because of a knee 
Dave Miles is a man who knows one goal and three assists after ac­injury to senior midfielder Chris 
what he likes. The spunky fifth-year cumulating 16 goals and 12 assists Telk. Grace says he tends to take 
captain of the Irish soccer team over his last two seasons with the advantage of Miles' toughness at 
loves a hard-fought game full ofpus­Irish. midfielder. 
hing and shoving. He likes to play in "I'm cursed this year," he says. 
the mud. He does not, on the other "I've had ample opportunities, but I "We put him there when we need 
hand, care for the off-field rowdiness can't buy a goal." very, very aggressive, very, very 
and rituals that one might expect Less playing time this fall is part of hard defense," he says. 
from such an intense performer. the reason for Miles' low scoring Miles has taken the move in stride. 
In short, he just likes to play soc­output this fall. A strong crop of "I don't feel uncomfortable," he 
cer. freshmen has given the Irish greater comments. "I'd rather be upfield, 
"I never wa.s much for clapping depth this year than in previous but I don't mind midfield." 
and cheering," says the 5-10, 165 seasons and has reduced upperclas­
pound Miles. "I just like to play. sman playing time. Miles says that he Miles is proud of the attitude of 
Some guys like to listen to music and other veterans had trouble ad­the seniors, especially Telk, Jock 
before games or stretch for thiny justing to lesser roles. Mutschler, Mark Biddinger and 
minutes. I'd rather show up two "There was some remorse and Stuart MacDonald, for retaining 
minutes before the game and just go ·some questioning," he remarks. "But positive attitudes despite seeing the 
out and play." now I think it's better to play half a squad reduced to the role of a 
Irish Head Coach Dennis Grace game at full strength than a whole spoiler in a disappointing season. 
said he feels that the captain's hard­game tired out." 
nosed attitude rubs off on his Miles says he feels that it is his "The seniors have held up quite 
teammates. duty to keep players happy during well," he says. "Our job now is to set 
"He keeps an intense, demanding such controversies. He is sometimes a good precedent for next year." 
attitude on the team," says Grace, torn between his responsibilities as Miles, though, is nearing the end 
whose 2-7-2 squad will battle in the captain and his allegiances to his of his soccer career. He will fufill his 
Wright State Tournament in Dayton, teammates. Air Force ROTC requirement next 
Ohio, tomorrow and Sunday. "He "I'm more of a player's captain year by enlisting full time in the Air 
doesn't let his teammates get away than a coach's captain," he says, "but Force, where he hopes to become a 
with nonchalantness or giving less sometimes you have to be the pilot. A fitting ambition for such a 
than 100 percent." mediator." fighter. 
Cross-country meet set for 2 today 
By MIKE SZ¥MANSKI "We would have won the National against Chris Brewster of Michigan Sports Writer Catholic Meet if either Collins or today. Garrett ran, because we were the Craig Maxfield, who Piane thinks 
As the Notre Dame lnvitationai only team to place four in the top has the potential to run in the top approaches today at 2 p.m., Notre 17," said Piane. "Only two runners five, and Tim Diamond will replace Dame men's cross-country coach in that race were in the top seven Collins and Garrett, both of whom Joe Piane is looking for a runner to last year, and they were 6th and 7th Piane sees returning for the State emerge as the critical fifth man. men." meet. jeff Van Wie, an inex­
The fifth man, who is the last run­Piane pointed to the fact that John perienced but talented cross­ner whose score counts in a race, has Magill, Tom Warth, Ron Markezich, country runner, could challenge for been trouble for the Irish this and jeff Van Wie all had personal the fifth position. season. Injuries to key runners Mike record performances, and top run­Notre Dame will face tough Big Collins and Dan Garrett have left ner jim Tyler ran well. Tyler hopes Ten opponents Michigan, Ohio State vacancies in the top five. to have another fine performance and Eastern Michigan, the best Mid 


American conference team. South Dakota and Edinboro, ranked one and two, respectively, in Division II,
THE SOUND MASTER 
will join Cal Poly-Pomona to race
MUSIC YOU WANT TO HEAR! 
the Irish. Olympic marathon gold-medalist
I , Over 1500 Watts Forties For------. 
Frank Shorter, in South Bend for the 
---Total Fbwer Any Occasion---' 
Sportsmed 1OK this weekend, will start one of the races at Burke
OWNER GARY VINCENT 
Memorial Golf Course. 
MOBILE D.J. & LIGHTING 
Volleyball
674-0035 
continuedfrom page 16 

the improvement shows soon. The freshmen, both mentally and physi­cally, have improved tremendously. But they're still going to make mistakes. That's to be expected.
Dear Faculty AndStaff, 
Overall, it's a good group ofwomen, and they're working hard. They don't like being 2-8 as much as the next person."
;1..'B. 'Die~ Co. of South 'Bend, )nc. 
Surely, there will be no dilly­corcfia4v invites-to attend a dallying around when conference FALL SHOl\' OF NEl\' PRODUCTS play starts. And the loss of McLaugh­lin will not help matters. Still, the
On Campus 

Irish have the opportuniy to show presenti"9 iwns sw:fi as the other teams just how much they have improved. They have a chance 
-'Ekctronic Writi"9 'Boan{ -'fuok ':Binders 
to prove themselves and set a topsy­-Cofor Capias -Paper Sfire.Mers turvy season straight. Improvement is what Lamben 
-Gruk/Scitntific 1onts -Phi!ips O.ffice Partner 
will be looking for the most. The -PC to typesetter communications schedule is still loaded with top­notch teams, and he hopes to have
-Cofor pfotur aruf Jl'.B. 'Dick. 'K'WS 
the Irish ready. 
DATES: 'Tut..sd"a_y, Ocw6er 8, 1985 "I'm beginning to see results al­Wed"nt.Sday, October 9, 1985 ready," Lambert says. "I don't like waiting and I'm not a patient man. 
TIMES: On tht flour -every hour 
But, realistically, we're talking about 10:00 a..m. to 6:00 p.m. 
a two-to three-year adjustment PLACE: ~ Jnn period. Time is what matters the most."
5\fumni 1l.oom 
With a little more experience, and a little luck, the Irish may just be able to surprise a few teams this season. 
'Brit19 your &usint..ss card so wt can Camina.te it But only time will tell. for your ~909e tll9S. 



Royals 
continuedfrom page 16 
innings, but benefitted from two Kansas aty double plays as Califor­nia stranded nine baserunners. Dan Quisenberry retired the final batter for his 36th laVe. 
The three home runs -represent­ing career hipfor each man -came otfDon Sutton, 15-10, who departed after five innings. Jackson, 14-12, struck out three and walked none. 
1be Angels, who brought a one­game lead into the four-game show­down. will finish their regular season with three weekend games in Texas while the Royals host Oakland for three. A regular-season deadlock would be played otf in Kansas City on Monday afternoon. 
Jackson, a 23-year-old left-bander, who had lost five ofhis six previous decisions, worked out ofjams in the first and fourth to outduel the 40­year-old Sutton, who remains five career victories shy of 300. 
Brett, who homered in three of the four games against the Angels, drew a two-out walk in the first. lhcn White, a six-time gold glove 
Soccer 
I 
continU«lfrom page 16 
Keenan's schedule has a lot to do with their undefeated start. "Our easy early scbcdulc helps heading into games with the traditional powerhouses," he said Keenan and
I 
Leary will get to prove themselves
f· 
~ 
this Sunday as they take on tradi­tional power Flanner "A" at 3 p.m on 
North Stepan.
I' 
In the East European League, Tom
I 
Zibelli ofStanford booted a rare hat
ll 
trick against Holy Cross "B", and he also accounted for all of the game's
~ 
scoring as the Studs rolled to a 3-0 victory. 
"I'm pretty happy with the way we've scored," said Stanford captain Jim Byrne, remarking on the team's successive three-goal performance. ''Tom Biafore played good defense against Holy Cross." 
In other league action, Pangborn outscored O.C. Spliss, 4-3, in a shootout after both teams had played to a 1-1 standstill. 
Highlighting the next round of games this weekend, Morrissey "A" and Grace "A" will kickotfSunday at 3 p.m. onSouth Stepan, while the big game pitting Howard and St. Ed's was postponed to a later date. In the European leagues, aside from the Keenan-Flanncr "A" game, Dillon I will try to get its season underway against an improving Pangborn team. 
Irish 
continU«lfrom page 16 

"We need to score off of the comers;• Undenfeld said, "and we need to get more comers in order to improve o_ur game play. 
"Neither team that we arc playing this weekend has had a game on turf yet this year. That should be a good advantage for us," Undenfeld con­tinued. "I am very pleased with the way we switched fieldS today, I hope we continue that success." 
Notre Dame will play two more games this week. Today the Irish square off against calvin, while Sun­day they will be playing Albion. Game times are 3:30 p.m. this after­noon and 2 p.m. Sunday. Both con­tests will be played on the astroturf ofCartier Field. 
SObering
Advice ...·-~ 
can 

alife 

------------~----------~---------------------------· 
The Observer Friday, October 4, 1985-page 14 
winner at second base, hit a 1-2 pitch deep into the leftfield bullpen 
Notre Dame women's tennis team 
for his 22nd homer. Balboni, who set a club record last week with his 35th homer, clubbed 
plays host to invitational toomey
No. 36 leading dtf the fourth. With 
"We've beaten Marquette," said Gel..fman, "and Ferris and Saint Mary's have young teams that aren't too strong yet. I don't know too much about Louisville or Cincinnati, but I really expect us to be in the finals on Sunday and win our own tournament. 
"The girls are ready. They're really pumped up, and they're playing well right now," Gelfman continued. "I think we can have a little momentum going into the con­fert·nce championships by winning this weekend." 
Irish captain Susie Panther said she also is pleasedwith the season so far and is looking forward to the last two weeks ofthe fall season. "Wc've had some great experience this fall and we're playing strongly right now," Panther said. "Even though playing in the cold weather can be pretty bad, the enthusiasm is good and all of us arc excited about the team and the spring season." 
Another plus for Panther and the Irish this weekend will be the return of Michele Dasso. Out last weekend with an injury, Dasso is I 00 percent and will team with Panther for anot­her strong Irish doubles team to go along with seniors Izzy O'Brien and Mary Colligan. 
The Irish will play Ferris State tomorrow morning at 9 to open the tournament and, with a victory, will advance to a second-round match tomorrow afternoon. The Invita­tional final will be played Sunday at 1:00p.m. 
FoUowing the Invitational, Notre Dame will travel to St. Louis for the North Sw Conference Champion­ships on Oct. 11-12. 
After a lengthy layoff, seven players will go to the Rolcx Invita­tional in Madison, Wis., in Novem­ber. 

two out in the fifth, Brett unloaded his 28th over the centerfield fence to put the Royals on top 4-0. 
Sutton and reliever Stu Cliburn combined for 10 strikeouts of the Royals. 
California broke the shutout with two outs in the ninth on an RBI triple by Bobby Grieb. 
Tigers-2, Blue jay~ 0 
DETROIT -Tom Brookens tripled home two runs to back the six-hit pitching of Walt Terrell as the Detroit Tigers beat Toronto, 2-0, last night, completing a sweep of the Blue Jays and further stalling their bid for the American League East championship. 
Heading into the game, the Blue jays, who led New York by four games, needed any combination of Toronto victories and Yankee defeats totaling two to clinch the tide. 
IS Notre Dame Still Catholic? 
PART II The Strange Experiments of Dr. Basu 
In the summer of 1984 "Is Notre Dame Still Catholic?" shot across the sky of Catholic journalism like a comet. In a series of in­terviews with seminarians and theology professors, Fidelity went on to prove that the situation at the flagship of Catholic education in this country was worse than anyone suspected. One theologian ad­mitted he was an atheist; seminarians wondered whether Jesus was guilty of the sin of sexism. 
Now in a hard-hitting sequel, Fidelity looks at Notre Dame's contribution to the abortion culture. In the summer of 1985 Ann landers talked scoffingly of babies being put through meat grind­ers. Well, aborted babies are being ground up and used, if not for cosmetics, then for medical research. And the research is going on right now in the shadow of the Golden Dome. Find out what hap­pens to the babies after they go through the meat grinder and end up at Notre Dame. This is not just an article about fetal experimen­tation. It's about deals made with the abortion culture; it's about the sell-out of Catholic education and the need (and the hope) for re­form. It's a story of the courage of one man and the institution that let him down. It's a story you won't be able to put down once you ­start it. It's typical Fidelity 
-Fidelity is real Catholic and real journalism. It pulls rro punches in its defense of the authentic teachings of the Catholic faith. It's also a magazine that doesn't let other people do its thinking for it. It's not just somebody commenting on yesterday's newspaper ­seeing the world througtfsecularist glasses. Fidelity is first-hand, in­depth reporting on social/family issues -the issues that you want to know about, the ones that affect you most intimately. James Hitchcock called our coverage of the Pensacola abortion clinic bom­bing trial"one of the best articles to appear in any Catholic journal in years. It ranks with the best written and most acute pieces of journalism I have ever seen anywhere." Fidelity is hard-hitting jour­nalism that is up-front and unapologetic about its Catholicism. In future issues we take you to Death Row in Michigan City to see the effects of pornography, and to Rome for first-hand coverage of the show-down over V~tkan II. These are stories you won't want to miss. 
Fidelity tells the stories you won't read anywhere else. It has depth you can't get in_a newspaper and the readability of a thriller. 
Se~d me $15, and I'll send you 12 issues of a magazine that is good enough to be literature and Catholic enough to make a dif­ference in a person's life. Subscribe now and I'll send you either of our Notre Dame articles free. Subscribe for two years and I'll send you both. 
2

Fidelity Magazine I have enclosed: 206 Marquette Ave. 
0 $1.50 for one copy of "Is Notre Dame South Bend, IN 46617 
Still Catholic?" PART II. 
0 $15 for a free copy of "Is Notre Dame Name Still Catholic?" PART II plus a year's subscription (12 issues) to Fidelity. 
0 $30 for a free copy of both "Is Notre
Street Dame Still Catholic?" issues -PART I and PART II plus a two year's subscrip­
City I State I Zip tion (24 issues) to Fidelity. 
It's Time For A Change. It's Time For TJOflJTY 
By ED JORDANICH 
Sports Wrltn 
When Michele Gelfman's Notre Dame women's tennis team begins play tomorrow in the Irish Invita­tional, it will walk into the Courtney Tennis Center as an established Divi­sion I college program. 
Although this is the team's first ycu in Division I, last weekend's good showing at the Midwest Inter­collegiate Championships proved the Irish belong on the same court with some of the nation's best. 
The tournament this weekend will not provide the competition that Northwestern and Kentucky did a week ago, but the presence of Louisville and Cincinnati could make things interesting. The six­team tourney also will indude Mar­quette, Ferris State and Saint Mary's; teams that Gelfman said she is not too worried abouL 


Friday, October 4, 1985 -page 15 Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
•SCANNING 7H& VI16T, SINII&e Re/ICH€S Of 1H£ COSMIC VOl~ HIS MINP WIWPe:RS 1lJ 1T£ FIWT/16T/C•. TO 11£ VNFitf}(}('rl­A6le~. C()(Jt.P ~6e 5TIIRIN& 
lrmJ 7H£ ~F. Of•. OF 60P 11/Mf£/.F_? 
0//
.. 
, ;

I / 
Zeto 

ACROSS 1 Ancient 
kingdom 5 Date tree 9 Scarf 
14 Soprano Gluck 15 Jai­16 Fatherof 
Indira 17 Try to find 18 Dirt 19 Reverie 20 Fragrant shrub 23 A Whitney 24 Exploit 25 Fell into a 
decline 27 Parts of a 
calyx 30 Skullcap 32 Fabric weave 33 Serene 34 Environmental 
science: abbr. 37 Home of song 38 Afr.llly 39 Arrived 40 Hematite and 
galena 41 Floundering 42 Foxllke marten 4 Cooked state? 43 One-seeded 5 Annie Oakleys 
fruits: var. 6 VIva voce 45 Courters 7 Secular 46 Influence 8 Dairy product 48 Moiety 9 Of certain 49 Beret mountains 50 Thorny tree 10 Pulpit talk: abbr. 56-the good 11 Girlie photos 58 Russ. city 12 Clerical cape 59 Melody 13 Swollen 60 Della of 21 Bellow 
song 22 Guanaco's 61 Wife of Henry kinsman VIII 26 Easy chore 62 Ger. philoso· 27 Capital of 
pher Manche 63 Curves 28 Pitcher 64 Warm up 29 Grenades 65 Brideof 30 Bundles 
lohengrin 31 Fitzgerald 44 Resounds 51 Early ship 33 Crate 45 Billfold builder 
DOWN 35 Khayyam 46 "-for 52 Sea eagle 1 Crush 36 Camera part nobody" 53 Russ. river 2 Butter 38 Poem division 47 Men 54 Moral lapses 
substitute 42 Game played 48 Nocturnal 55 Solong 3 So be It on horseback carnivore 57 Mao -·tung 


NO•• I ar<TII!Nt.Y 
lJO NOT lHINK 1HII1 CI1Kt. ~ /llt:MP HAVE HIINPUP Jl{RT 
SITVIITION WITH MOK£ 
POlS£... 
J 

Kevin Walsh 
Campus · 
FRIDAY, OCT. 4 
•11:00 
A.M.· 4:00P.M.· Post-Grad Volunteer Day, Service Oriented Groups, Center for So­cial Concerns, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns 

•11 
:30 A.M. · Mass for the Feast ofSt. Francis Assisi, Rev. Robert j. Kennedy, celebrant; Sr. Mary jane Griffin, O.S.F., homilist, Sacred Heart Church, Following Mass a simple meal will be served at the Center for Social Con­cerns 

•2:00 
P.M.. Cross Country, Notre Dame In­vitational, Burke Memorial GolfCourse 

•3:00 
P.M. · Field Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Calvin, Alumni Field 

•4:00 
P.M. · Junior Class Softball Tourna­ment, Across from Stepan Field, Sponsored by junior Class, $5.00 entry fee 

•4:00 
P.M.. 7:00 P.M. · West Coast Picnic, Stepan Field -6:30 P.M. · Meeting. Christian Fellowship , Ubcacy Lounge, Sponsored by ICHTHUS 

•7:00, 
9:00 and 11:00 P.M. ·' SAD FUm, "Bevecly Hills Cop", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1.50 


Notre Dame 
Roast Top Round ofBeefauJus Sausage jambalya Beer Batter Perch Devonshire Sandwich 
TV Tonight 
8:00P.M.  22  Dallas  
28  DUfttent Strokes  
34  Washington Wcrk in Review  
8:30P.M.  28  &nson  
46  Father Michael Manning  
9:00P.M.  16  MiamiVicr  
22  Falcon Crest  


.. 
~ 
a. 

"Here comes another big one, Roy, and here-we-goooooowheeeeeeeooo!" 
•7:30 P.M. and 9:30P.M. ·Friday NJabt FUm Series, "Under the Volcano", Annenbecg Auditorium 
SATIJRDAY, OCT. S 
•8:30 
A.M.· 2:30P.M.· Retreat, "Spirituality For A Global Community", For Students, Faculty and Staff, Moreau Seminary, S3.50 per person -9:00 A.M.. Tenn18, Notre Dame Women Irish Invitational, Courtney Courts 

•2:30 
P.M. · Football, Notre Dame vs. Air Force, At Colorado Springs 

•7:00, 
9:00 and 11:00 P.M. • SAD FUm, "Beverly Hills Cop", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1.50 SUNDAY, OCT. 6 


-9:00 A.M. · Tenn18, Notre Dame Women Irish Invitational, Courtney Courts 
•2:00 
P.M. • Field Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Albion, Alumni Field 

•7:00 
P.M.· Concert, Alabama with thejudds and Charlie Daniels Band, ACC, $15.00 

•7:00 
P.M. · Meetlna, Marcel Vroman, Hayes Healy, Sponsored by AIESEC 


Dinner Menus 
Saint Mary's Patty Melt Batler Fried Fish Swedish Crepes Chicken Cacciatore 

28  ~nscr: For Hicr  
'"  LcseaAiive  
9:30P.M.  34  Wall Stccrt Wcrk  
!O:OOP.M.  16  NcwsCcnter 16  
22  22 Eyewitnrss News  
28  Ncwswatch 28  
34  Great Performances  


•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• • 


. .,.. 



Friday, October 4, 1985 -page 16 
Irish beat Goshen, score their 5th win 
By KEVIN HERBERT notched an unassisted goal 20 Sports Writer minutes into the first half. DiGiacomo sustained her scoring 
Jill Undenfeld's Irish field hockey onslaught by scoring two goals wit· squad showed the fruits ofextensive hin a minute to boost the tally to 5·0. practice and game experience as By this point, the outcome of the Notre Dame thrashed Goshen, 9·0, contest was obvious. Only one ques­in action yesterday. tion remained, and that was, by how 
The game was never in doubt as much were the Irish going to win. 
the Irish scored early and often, Notre Dame posted two more 
raising their record to one game goals before the end of the first half. 
over .500 at 5-4-1. Sommer scored her second of the 
Seven minutes into the contest, game and junior Stephanie Giggetts Melissa Sommer notched her fourth marked the other. They were as­goal of the season with the help ofan sisted by DiGiacomo and Sommer, assist from Corinne DiGiacomo. respectively. 
In the second half, the Irish scored 

Two minutes later it was another two to make the final tally DiGiacomo who scored, assisted by 9-0. The first was netted by Christina Molly McCabe. Weinmann, assisted by freshman 
"I am very pleased with the play of Christine Sweeney. The final goal Melissa and Corinne," Lindenfeld was scored unassisted by sop· said. "They both played great games. homore Mary Wagner. Mary Struckhoff also played excep· With some help from the defense, tionally well today. sophomore Maryjean Beetel picked 
"Our team has really improved it's up the shutout for the Irish. Of· inter-passing and marking man-to· fensively, Notre Dame managed 25 man." shots on goal. 
Notre Dame extended its lead to 3·0 when senior Mary Struckhoff see IRISH, page 14 
Cardinals beat Mets; 
Sophomore Mary Wagner, whose detennination team rolled over Goshen, 9·0. Kevin Herbert gives sbows in tbis photo, scored an unassisted goalyes­the details ofthe win, which brings the Irish to 5-4· 
magic number at two
terday afternoon as the Notre Dame field hockey 1, in his story at right. 
A.s8oclated Press victory Tuesday night and a 5-2 deci­sion Wednesday night. ST. LOUIS · Vince Coleman had The two teams were tied 1-1 in ·
r~ NSC volleyball play begins today 
I 
three hits, including a two-run single the fourth inning when Coleman By CHUCK EHRMAN and will miss at least four weeks of tough," admits Lambert, "but you in the fourth inning, and the St. Louis drove in a pair of runs with his Sports Writer play. can't go out and play a bunch of no­Cardinals averted a three-game second hit of the night off Rick 
"Her absence will be a hard name teams and then expect to be sweep by New York with a 4-3 vic· Aguilera, 1 0· 7. Coleman went into 
"Some people would look at a 2-8 blow," laments Lambert. "She's the able to go out and take on the big tory last night that restored their the game with one hit in his previous record and say 'what the heck is best passer and defensive player on boys in a year or so. You have to play lead in the National League East to 20 at-bats. going on?'" says Notre Dame vol­the team. We hope to have her back decent teams from the start. And two games over the Mets. Darrell Porter walked, Ozzie leyball coach Art Lambert, "but a in time for the conference tourna· that's what we're doing, playing the With the victory, the Cardinals Smith singled and pitcher Danny record doesn't tell the whole story." ment. It just depends on how fast she best." ended a three-game losing streak Cox sacrificed to set up the go-ahead 
He speaks with reassurance and a heals." The experience the Irish have and reduced their magic number to hit. certain determination of purpose. "I The first ten games of the season gained playing the best teams will be tWo. Any combination of two Car· Cox, 18-9, allowed nine hits in six do see improvement," he says, "and have been anything but easy for the put to the test in conference play. dinals victories or Mets losses would innings, but limited the Mets to two it will manifest itself as the season Irish, the schedule being the major The Irish are out to win the con­clinch the division. runs, both driven in by Keith Her­
I goes on. We're getting better and stumbling block. Lambert is quick to ference this time around, after The Cardinals finish the season nandez, who had five hits. Aguilera, better play." point out the caliber of the competi· finishing as runner-up last season. with three games at home against who had won three in a row, also · tion. The team has played some of "Ofcourse we have to win it," says Chicago, sending Bob Forsch against gave up nine hits in six innings. 
Make no bones about it, the Irish the traditional volleyball giants of Lambert with intensity. "But our ul· Dennis Eckersley tonight. The Mets are not ready to wave the white flag. the college circuit: Kentucky, Ohio timate goal as a team is not just to play three at home with Montreal, Royals 4, Angels 1 North Star Conference play begins State, Purdue, Oklahoma, Georgia win the conference. Ultimately, with Sid Fernandez going against the this weekend, and the Irish have a and Northwestern top the list. There we're trying to get recognition on Expos' Bill Gullickson in the opener. KANSAS CITY Mo. · Frank White, chance to change their luck and turn have been some regular David the national level." George Brett and Steve Balboni hit the season around. The team will versus Goliath confrontations. Lambert is a man with a mission If the two teams finish the season home runs last night in support of play three big road matches in a two­"You have to remember," notes not yet accomplished. His in a tie, a one-game playoff in New Danny Jack.'iOn, powering Kansas day span, facing Xavier, Dayton and Lambert, "this program was just one philosophy is a simple one: improve­York Monday will decide the divi· City past California, 4-1, and into a Marquette. step above the intramural level two ment will come in time. sion. one-game lead in the American
•

Misfortune has struck the Irish in years ago." "I have nothing but good things to The Cardinals came into the League West. 
the form of a costly injury, though. Taking on all the top dogs of the say," says Lambert. "I would hope three-game series leading New York Jackson gave up 11 hits, in 8 2/3 Senior Mary Mclaughlin suffered a volleyball world is not suicidal mad· by three games, but the Mets pulled broken finger in practice this week ness, though. "We've scheduled see VOLLEYBALL, page 13 within a game with a 1·0, 1 1-inning see ROYALS, page 14 
Hard-hitting games mark interhall soccer play 
By TERRY LYNCH Howard scored two goals from Warth scored on his opportunity seconds into the first overtime Mike Viracola scored twice as the Sports Writer Scott Fox and Brendan O'Connor. to win the game. period and hung on to win by a Crime defeated an overmatched The defense held, and Howard In the North American League, score of 1·0. Both teams came Sorin team, 3·0. Like Holy Cross, 
For the second straight week, walked away with the win. Kevin O'Brien and Todd Siczek away from the game with a record 0.C. Crime has yet to be scored men's interhall soccer resembled a While Howard was off to a fine scored one goal apiece for Holy of2-l. upon, due mainly to the outstand­che~y Chuck Norris movie as start, they were being echoed by a Cross as the young Hogs improved Rounding up the action in the ing play of keeper Dave Simon. hard-hitting and close matches surprising St. Ed's team, which their record to 2-0 with a victory West European League, perennial Keenan matched O.C. Crime's dominated the Stepan fields. posted its second straight shootout over the Dogs of Alumni. The frontrunner O.C. Crime also progress in the West as they 
In the South American League, victory. In the first half against the much-heralded Alumni offense, rambled to a 2-0 record as it downed Zahm "A" by a score of 1· this style of play was evident as St. O.C. Benders, St. Ed's Dean after scoring six goals against defeated two of its main rivals, 0. In a close match primarily Ed's and Howard chalked up one· Pilawski put his team on the board Grace "B", proved to be no match Flanner "A" and Sorin. In probably composed of midfield play, Chris goal wins in intense action last first, only to see the score evened for an even better Holy Cross the roughest game of the season to Durbin scored midway through weekend, improving both halls' in the second half on an O.C. defense. date, O.C. Crime used a goal by the second half. Zahm "A" never records to 2·0. In what was Bender penalty shot. The score "I was pretty happy with the way Mark McVeigh midway through recovered after the lone goal, and predicted to be a tough game, remained at 1·1 through the we played," said Holy Cross cap­the first half to beat Flanner "A" by was unable to mount a scoring Howard prevailed over the Grace overtime periods, and both teams tain Frank Loughlin. "It puts us in a a 1-0 score. threat afterwards. "A" squad by a score of 2-1. scored twice in the five-shot good position for the rest of the "The game could have gone eit· "Zahm "A'"s inexperience 
Grace "A" jumped out to a 1-0 shootout. season." her way," remarked O.C. Crime's showed a little bit after the goal," lead while dominating the first half Remembering their identical ex­Alumni got back on track in its co-captain Buddy Webster. said Keenan captain Mike Leary. of play, but Howard adjusted from perience the week before against nextgame,butnotwithoutatough Webster, who was a testament to Leary, who also has a young team a three· to a four-man front to Morrissey "A", St. Ed's capitalized fight from Cavanaugh Wednesday the game's physical quality, left the to deal with, said he feels that begin the second half. Before on the O.C. Benders' missed afternoon. Alumni's Pat Schmied· game with a separated shoulder. Grace could react defensively, sudden-death penalty shot as Dave ler scored an overtime goal 30 In its second game, O.C. Crime's see SOCCER, page 14 



A Noh 0.... 11f1MtU, of * /tiiUtW IIIIIW ~~t~•ll ·~r· ·~ ,..,.,_,
1MNP m111 ,.,.,t,.,lillon. 
Salons yield year-round bronze....,~"' 
Lisa Young 
features writer 
T 
he leaves are turning, the squir­
rels are gathering nuts, and your 
tan is fading. Yes, summer is gone 
and your golden bronze hue has left 
with it. But don't despair. You can 
keep that "lifeguard look" all winter 
long, even here in South Bend. 
South Bend's climate hasn't 
changed, but technology has. A 
craze in Europe, tanning centers 
have finally arrived in Indiana. A 
glance through the phone book 
reveals l 0 tanning salons, and new 
centers are opening monthly. 
Ifyou're used to a bottle of baby oil and an innertube, tanning salons will be a different experience for you. Michael & Co. Hair Concepts and Fiesta Suntan Center, two local salons, both employ tanning beds. Other salons are equipped with tanning booths, which offer a dif­ferent tanning adventure. 
How can tanning with the sun be simulated in a booth or bed? The sun contains ultraviolet, visible and infrared light. The ultraviolet rays are ofimportance to suntanners. Ultraviolet light is made up of4.9 percent Ultraviolet A (UVA) rays and 0.04 percent Ultraviolet B, (lNB) rays. Both rays produce color, but UVB rays tan at a much faster rate This speed, though, often causes burning, cancer, wrinkles and premature aging. 
Tanning booths most often use UVB rays, but sessions only last a few minutes. Tanning beds, on the other hand, use UVA rays which stimulate the melanin in the skin to produce a rich, deep tan. Treat­ments last approximately 20-30 minutes. 
Your tanning session at Michael & Co. begins in your private tan­ning room. This privacy allows you to acquire a line-free tan, ifyou so desire. After dropping a token in the tanning bed, the lights begin their work. The top ofthe bed lowers 
over you as you relax and listen to your favorite radio station. A special facial tanner emits only uvA rays to bronze your face. 
A fresh air fan cools your body as arthritis, poor circulation, 
headaches, acne and psoriasis. 
Fiesta Hair Salon also uses UVA tanning beds. Located at Scotsdale Mall, appointments are necessary because approximately 500 tanners per week use the equipment. 
Because tanning centers have become so popular, the options for tanners are endless. The best advice is to check into the equipment available as well as extras such as music, private rooms, etc. 
Here are some suggestions for the use oftanning salons: 
•Makeup, 
perfume, and oils and lotions should be removed. Regular suntan oils should not be used. A special oil for artificial tanning can be purchased. 

•A 
moisturizer should be used after 


treatments. 
•Tinted 
hair should be covered wi~ a t?wel or scarf. 

•F:ur-skinned 
tanners should start ~A treatments ~t 20 minutes and 


you pretend a tropical breeze blows build up to 30 mmutes. 
over you. Eight daily sessions are necessary to build a tan, according to Michael Murray, president of Michael & Co. Following this, one or two sessions per week are neces­sary to maintain your tan. 
Is artificial tanning safe? "All 

suntanning is bad for you " Murry says, "but uvA tanning is ~er than the sun." In fact, UVAequipment 
was developed for treatment of •Areas of the body that have not been exposed to the sun should be expo~d gradually. . So ifthe ~utu_mn blahs_are SC:tting m, and you re ttred of bemg mts­taken for Casper the Ghost, check out the possibilities oftanning 
salons. Michael & Co. charges $6 per 
see TAN, page 2 
Happenings-page 2 Friday, October 4, 1985 
'On Your Toes' provides first for South Bend, ND grad 
"On Your Toes" tells the story of
Mary Jacoby 
Junior, a dance teacher and former assistant features editor Vaudeville performer who trys to interest the impresario ofa Russian 
T 
he opening of"On Your Toes" this weekend marks a first for both the Broadway Theater League ·of South Bend and Zack Brown, Notre Dame alumnus. 
Never before has the League had 
the chance to kick off its current 
season with the premier production 
ofa Broadway show as it begins a 
national tour. 
As for Zack Brown, the opening 
of"On Your Toes" brings him back 
to South Bend for the first time 
since his graduation in 1971. Brown 
designed the set and costumes for 
the production, and he is currently 
in town helping with preparations 
for opening night. 
"I really like working with this 
production," Brown said. "It's got a 
little bit ofeverything in it· from 
classical balletto jazz." 
"On Your Toes" was first 
produced on Broadway in the '30s. 
A Rodgers and Hart and George 
Abbott collaboration, "On Your 
Toes" enjoyed a recent revival on 
Broadway, winning the Tony Award 
two years ago. Co-author and 
original director George Abbott, 98, 
also directed the revival. Still active 
in theater today, Abbott is 
tentatively scheduled for a visit (o 
South Bend in conjunction with the 
opening ofthe tour. 
"George Abbott is Mr. Broad­
way," Brown said. "It's impossible 
to separate him from American 
musical theater." 
As set and costume designer, 
Brown has had the chance to work 
with the legendary Abbott, an ex­
perience he calls "very exciting" 
because ofAbbott's prominence in 
the business. But in view ofBrown's 
own extensive background in 
costume and set design, it could 
TAN 
continuedfrom page 1 
session or S50 for 10 sessions. Also available are "Tan All You Can" packages: SSO for one month and 
S375 for one year. Michael & Co.'s hours are from 8 a.m. to 1 0 p.m. Monday through Thursday and 8 
a.m. 
to 6 p.m. Friday and Saturday. Appointments are necessary. Fiesta Tanning Salon charges S1 0 for five sessions and $28 for 10 sessions. Hours are 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday and 1 0 

a.m. 
to 5 p.m. Sunday. 



The Oblerver/Paul Pabotnl<y Fiesta Suntan Center, in South Bend 

hardly be called a humbling ex­ballet company in producing his perience. jazz ballet. junior falls in love witlt 
Brown has been a designer in Russian ballerina Vera Baronova, theater since 1971. After graduation incuring the wrath ofher lover, he spent a year working before Konstantine. enrolling in the Yale School of Vera and Konstantine are Drama. In addition to theater, poruayed by Russians Valentina Brown has also worked extensively Kozlova and Leonid Kozlov, who with opera and ballet. He won two defected to the U.S. in 1979 while Emmy Awards for sets and touring as dancers with the Bolshoi costumes for the production of"La Ballet. Gioconda" at the San Fransisco Performances for the musical at Opera and a Tony nomination for the Morris Civic Auditorium will be his "The Importance ofBeing Fri. and Sat. at 8 p.m. The 2 p.m. Sat. Earnest" settings at Circle in the matinee will be S3.00 off the Square, an off-Broadway theater. regular ticket price for students 
As an art and drama major at with I.D. Prices range from S12.50 Notre Dame, Brown received his to $25.50 for evening pe:rtorman•::~s first hands-on training in set and and $10.50 to S21.50 for the costume design by working with matinee. student productions. From there Brown began designing for the Williamstown Theater Festival in Massachusets, where he was able to build up his reputation and secure recommendations. 
For aspiring set and costume designers, or anyone interested in theater, Brown doesn't have any particular advice except to start working. "I don't believe in luck in this business. You can either do it or you can't. Nobody takes chances in theater because ofthe money involved, so it can be hard to get the ball rolling." 
Brown has also designed sets and/or costumes for Balanchine's "La Sonnambula" for the American Ballet Theater and "Mourning 
Michael Kubala dramatically dtps bts partner during a musical 
Becomes Electra" for PBS's "Great 
number in "On Your Toes." 

Performances" series. "On Your Toes is only one in a long line of projects for the New York City­based Brown, who also works fre­quently with the Washington Opera as a resident designer. 
live at Chips• •••••••••PALACE Fri. & Sat. 75 ct shots of rootbeer all night DANCDKJ EVI!IIYPDGRT  

The "Around the Corner Club ol Notre OCJme" pre•onts First of the Windham Hill Series" ALEX DEGRASSI Folk Jazz Guitarist and the nger-Higbie-Marshall Trio Sunday, October 6-8:00 P.M. Stepan Center COFFEEHOUSE Good music, goad food, good friends! RELAX ~ ENJOY A STUDY BREAK CK.ETS: $.4. 00 at the door, the ACC Box-Office> or at the Record Store in LaFortune.  

The Best in 
Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown. Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00 P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 

.-----------------~-----~-----
Goclfatbcr~
---Pizza 
~ 
52929 u.s.31 North 
Del"') _...._ ....,. • a...u. ..... lot.tkln. 
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizzafor Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizza for Small Pizza Price 
I

(Delivery Orders Only) 
I 
I 

I AfterS pm on Fri.-Sat. Only I 
I I I (Limited Delivery Area) I I 
277-5880 offer expires Oct. 14 I 
~----------------------------~ 
Opn7 day• 9amtolam 

aaSk[fttUJA~
Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane 
BUY 2 GET 1 FREE 
across &om Martin's Supermarket 
Offer expires Oct. 29, 1985 
277-7744 

C'ol valid with any other coupon\ \fonda) and Tuesday ONL\' with student I.D. 

--------------------------------~.-------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------~­
Friday, October 4, 1985 Happenings-page 3 

Tbe Mother Superior (Anne Bancroft, at right) clutches tbe nun Agnes (Meg Ttlly, 
•Eddie Murphy stars as Axle Foley in ..Beverly Hills Cop," this weekend's Studen Activities Board-sponsored film. Much to the annoyance ofthe Beverly Hills Police Depart· ment, Murphy, a street-smart Detroit cop, pounds the gilded pavement ofBeverly Hills in search ofhis best friend's murderer. Chased and harassed, Murphy shows the Beverly Hills police that sometimes rules must be bent in order to fight crime. Tickets for the 7, 9, and 11 p.m. shows in the En­gineering Auditorium are S1.50. 

"Beverly Hills Cop" 

•"Under The Volcano," starringJa­queline Bisset, Anthony Andrews and Albert Finey, plays tonight at the Annenberg Auditorium. Adapted from the novel by Malcolm Lowry, "Under The Volcano" is the story ofa self-destructive alcoholic. Tickets are S3 for the 7:30 and 9:30p.m. shows. 
center) as an elder nun worrlesaboutAgnes' inpending trialfor murder. 
r-w--+------­
Misc. 


•The Broadway Theater League hosts the New York national tour premier of Rodgers and Hart's "On Your Toes" at the Morris Civic Auditorium. The musical stars Valen­tina and Leonid Kozlov, who defected from the Soviet Union in 1979 while touring with the Bolshoi Ballet. "On Your Toes" tells the story ofJunior, a dance teacher who tries to interest the impresario ofa Russian ballet company in producing his jazz ballet. In the process,Junior falls in love with ballerina Vera Baronova and incurs the wrath ofher lover, Konstantine. Ticket prices for the 8 
p.m. shows tonight and tomorrow night range from S12.50 to 125.50 with a 10 percent discount for students. For the Satur­day 2 p.m. matinee, prices range from S1 0.50 to S21.50 with a S3 student discount. 
'Tension of traditions 
Andy Kinney 
features writer 

"Agnes ofGod" is a movie which proves 
that all learning is not gained through 
a college lecture. It sheds new light on the 
relationship between scientific reason and 
religious faith. 
Granted, not every professor can look like Jane Fonda, but the combination ofMeg Tilly, Anne Bancroft and Fonda results in an ex­traordinarily deep and powerful film con­cerning science and religion. 
Whether or not you are the most stubborn non-thinker in the Midwest, this film will 
encourage you to reflect on your values and 
your perceptions ofreligious life. 
Fonda, Bancroft, and Tilly's performances make "Agnes ofGod," based on a play by John Pielmeier and directed by Norman Jewison, possibly one ofthe best films this year. 
"Agnes ofGod," filmed on location in a convent in Rockwood, Ontario, revolves around a childlike novice, Agnes, who gives birth to a baby in a convent. The baby is found strangled in a nearby room, and the answers behind the incident are shrouded in mystery. 

•The
Junior Class Softball Fesdval. occurs today at 4 p.m. across from Stepan field. Teams consist of 10 players, at a cost of S5 per team. Prizes will be given to the winning team and the team with the most original uniform. All juniors are welcome to participate. 

•The 
Friends ofthe Library will host a Sunday Stroll from 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday. The Stroll consists ofa visit to five major cultural institutions in South Bend: the public library, the Studebaker National Museum, the Nor­them Indiana Historical Society Museum, the Discovery Hall Museum, and the Art Center. Participants have the opportunity to view a different exhibit at each site, collecting gold stars along the way which can be exchanged later for a free gift. The event is free and open to the public. 

•The 
Sportsmed 10-k run occurs Sunday near the Century Center. Nationally known runners will participate in this event along with novices. To register, call232-3034. 


knowledge ofthe events up to and including 
the birth, Psychiatrist Martha Livingston, 
portrayed by Fonda, is sent to investigate the 
case. 

What results when Livingston enters the 
convent is an immediate immersion into the 
secluded lives of the nuns and a moving 
relationship with Mother Miriam Ruth, 
played by Bancroft. 
The beauty ofthis movie is the manner in 
which the life ofUvingston is contrasted 
with Ruth's life. These two represent science 
and religion, respectively, and they each try 
to interpret Agnes' situation in light of their 
own values. 
As the mystery of the birth unfolds, 
answers become choices between reason 
and faith. The two attempt to resolve what 
actually occurred, and the views they give 
are representative ofthe questions anyone 
might have about faith in today's-times. 
"Agnes ofGod" also invites the viewer to become part ofthe drama because ofthe fascinating atmosphere in which it takes place. The movie places you in a microcosm ofreligious, as well as societal seclusion. 
Inside this world are intriguing social relationships, and before the eyes of Uvingston (which are closest to the eyes of our society), we gain admiration for these nuns as well as the vocation in general. 
Good films have depth ofmeaning. They are not superficial. "Agnes ofGod" coor­dinates symbolic elements within the plot with a grace that avoids superficiality and challenges the audience more than other recent movies. 
•The 
Sophomore Class Fall Warm-Up Patty takes place tonight in front of Morris­sey Hall from 10 p.m. to 1 am. Music, hot chocolate and marshmallows will be provided. 

•The 
Sophomore Class Mass is this Sunday at 11 a.m. Watch for posters regard­ing its whereabouts. 


Music 


•Country 
group Alabama will perform this Sunday at the ACC. Tickets for the 7 p.m. show are $15.50. 

•Guest 
artist Laura Klugberz will per­form at 4 p.m. Sunday in the Annenberg Auditorium. Klugherz is an assistant profes­sor ofmusic at Notre Dame and has travelled extensively as a solo and chamber violinist. She will perform with pianist William Cerny. 


Mass 


The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: FatherJames Flanigan at 5 p.m. (Saturday 
night vigil). Father Oliver Williams at 9 a.m. Father Paul Marceau at 10:30 am. Father Gerald Lardner at 12:1 5 p.m. 
r------------------------~------· 
SUPER PREMIUM 
HOME MADE ICE CREAM 
Cheesecakes(homemade) 10 Different Coffees and 10Different Teas Cappaclno Croulsant Meals and Homemade Soup 
DISCOUNT COUPON Buy one Ice cream treat. Get one ofequal value FREE. 

Good from 10/3 to 10/10826W. Edison Sun.-Thurs.11am-11pm Mishawaka 258-0777 Fri.&Sat. Open till 12 Midnight 
(Handpacked Ice cream not Included) 

South Bend's Party Headquarters 
Open 6 nights a week Drinking and Dancing 9:00pm-1 
Located on U.S. 33 IV. at North Village Mall 

PrlnUand A des fromlbeumemll 
-MPtllm... E-~1 .............IIIOIIOn lliCUI(Mf'l....­
~lor--ln35mm-bv Sed~ F-Enjormic:IO-IIMIJI'IIIn end rtcfl color~ SIIOOIIn lllw01 bl9"1i11t11 lrom200ASA up b 1200ASA. Qellheopliand prtnll Olllidll.Olllae\
....,.,,._.­
INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
C RUSH -IWo~IOIIol,ou< '-d~Rg~MP--~4.,. 
(200 AliA). E,_i1 $2.00.1"d llloe b lie -"'getcotorll""'lor-101~ 
!romllle-""01 ...~...... 
CITY STAlE ZIP 
Mellb: ............. 
P.O. I<*c:-340M 
..,.. ,.....••124 
----Ulllflt...,._ 

Happenings -page 4 Friday, October 4, 1985 
Nearby bar features 
comfort 
Dave Dvorak 
features staffwriter 
I 
find it rather surprising that the 
Unebacker Lounge is not a more popular 
student bar than it is. At the corner of Edison 
and South Bend Ave. (next to King's Cellar), 
it is the nearest drinking establishment to the 
Notre Dame campus, save Senior Bar. 
Clean, casual, and gaudily adorned with 
Fighting Irish paraphernalia, the Unebacker 
seems to be beckoning Darners to sample its 
simple, yet unique atmosphere. It is not a 
fashionable night spot but what this bar lacks 
in elegance, it makes up for in comfort and 
quaintness. 


ffyou're tired ofhaving to stand in sweaty, smoky Five Points sardine cans, you'll be refreshed by the ample seating and moderate crowd sizes at the Unebacker. No need to fight your way to the bar for a drink • waitresses serve you at your table, complete with complimentary nachos and popcorn upon request. No need to shout into the eardrum of the person next to you · the music level is such that you and your friends can converse as normal human beings. 
The great majority of the bar's clientele consists ofSouth Bend-Mishawaka area patrons. The t9wn customers here are generally well-behaved, and no apparent tension exists between them and the stu· dents. In fact, townie-student interaction is not uncommon at the Lounge. 
and sizzle 
In addition to the 3S cents-per-game pool table, the Unebacker offers entertainment in the forms of electronic darts, PacMan, and a trivia machine. The bar boasts a big screen TV, as well as three regular color TVs, which show everything from Monday Night Foot· ball to MTV. 
The Lounge also features a small wooden dance floor surrounded on two sides by mirrors and accompanied by a delightful jukebox. Here you'll find an excellent variety ofmusic, from Prince to Willie Nelson, including some truckers' favorites whose titles are unfit for print. A live disc jockey is on duty to spin requests every Friday and Saturday night. 
-

The Linebacker, however, has become better known for a different kind ofentertain­ment, namely its Monday and Thursday night intimate apparel fashion shows. During these so-called "lingerie nights," models parade around the lounge area in scanty outfits, selling $1 raffle tickets. 
Drawings are held during the course ofthe evening, with lingerie prizes going to the winners. The shows draw large crowds which are almost exclusively male. You probably can gather that the Unebacker isn't a great place to bring a date on Monday and Thursday nights. 
Drinks at the Unebacker are moderately priced· $3.25 pitchers are the best buy. The burgers, Italian beef, and Polish sausage available at the grill are ofquestionable quality. Be careful 
All things considered, the Unebacker Lounge is a very good idea ifyou're looking for a place to get together informally with friends. It is a townie bar with definite Notre Dame influence that welcomes patrons from both groups. 


It's a Birthday Celebration ........... . 
at 
, 

---1 year old-­
30/.offall Ice Cream Treats 
for ND-SMC students 
FREE 

Pop and Prizes 
Located on East Edge of Campus 
i. 





