
-------------~ ~----­
-~ 
Culture shock -page 5 




Cruise ship hijacked near Egyptian coast; 400 believed on board 
PORT SAID, Egypt · Palestinian hijackers seized an Italian cruise liner at sea yesterday with more than 400 people aboard, demanded that Israel release •;o prisoners and threatened to blow up the ship if at· tacked, officials reported. 
Italian Defense Minister Giovanni Spadolini placed the nation's armed fon:es on alert. 
An Italian Foreign Ministry report said 72 Americans were listt·d as pas· sengt·rs aboard the A("hille Lauro. 
llours later, Patrizia Terese, a duty officer at the Foreign Ministry, told The Associated Press that 7 2 Amcri<:ans and 20 Britons were among 600 passengers who left the .\hip in Alexandria ·for a day-long land tour. That would mean that all of the Amcri<:ans and Britons listed in the prt·vious ministry report had dist·mbarkcd; but Terese em· phasized that the figures were preliminary, and there still could have been Americans aboard the ship when it was hijacked. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman Mike Austrian said the l'.S. embassy in Cairo was trying to locate the cruise organizers to find out how many Americans kft the ship to visit Cairo and the nearby pyramids. 

Balanced budget plan deadlocked 
Ati!Kx:iated Prrss 
WASIIINGTON While the !(OVcrnmt"nt lived hand-to-mouth . without credit in what President Reagan called an "emergency situa­tion," tht· Senate tried again yester­day to break its deadlock over a balanced-budget plan that has stalled legislation to increase federal borrowing authority. 
·"We have to do something," said St:nate Majority Leader Robert Dole, R-Kan. But there was no indication of a quick t•nd to tht· tangle that kept the Senate in session over the weekend and delayed action on in­crea.'iiO!( the national debt limit to a landmark S2 trillion. 
At the White House, Reagan urged a gathering of Republican sup­porters to work for pa.<;sagc of the 

Senate debates Adworks computer 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
SeniorStaffReportl!r 
Although the University has a la.'ier printer available for student use, the Student Senate debated the possible purchase of a S7,SOO com­puter system for the Adworks ad· vcrtising agency at la.'it night's meeting. 
The proposed computer system has a laser printer capable of doing typsctting work. This could do the work that student government now must contract off campus for, Stu­dent Body President Bill Healy said. 
Cabinet member Mike Jaeger said the l lniversity has a laser printer of its own, open for student use. 
llealy said the University's printer is too heavily used for Adworks purpose. "There's a long line to use it, it," he said. "Ifyou step out ofline you lose your turn." 
Junior Class President Jim 
Domagalski said he didn't belicvt" 
the proposed laser printer could 
typeset as well as a professional's. 
"There is no comparison with what a professional can do and what the laser printer docs," Domagalski said. He added that his Macintosh computer does work comparable to the proposed laser printer. 
But Healy disagreed with Domagalski. "When its fully set in place it can do a very good job," he said. 
The question ofwhere funding for such a system would come from also was discussed. "We have a Sl <;,000 contingency fund set up for any cir­cumstances. The money could come from that," said Student Body 
Egyptian officials said the Achille Lauro had left Alexandria and was approximately 30 miles west of Port Said, its next destination, when it was commandeered by an un­determined number ofhijackers and headed farther out into the Mediter­ranean, its destination unknown. 
Word of the takeover came in a ship-to-shore radio report by the hijackers' leader to Port Said at about 9:30p.m.-3:30p.m. EST. The guerrilla said the hijackers were members of the Pah:stine Liberation Front, a dissident faction of the Palestine Liberation Organizaion. 
Many of the passengers who left the Achille Lauro in Alexandria had been scheduled to rejoin the cruise at Port Said, the northern entrance to the Suez Canal and I SO miles east ofAlexandria. The vessel then was to continue on to Ashod on Israel's west coast before heading for Naples. 
The threat to blow up the vessel came from the hijackers' leader, identified only by the name Omar, according to the Port Said officials. 
A Palestinian named Samir Konaiterry headed the list of prisoners the hijackers said were being held in Israel and whose freedom was demanded in exchange 
see HIJACK, page 4 
plan to set statutory limits on federal budget deficits in order to achieve a balanced budget by 1991. 
"That's one proposal that is worth fighting for," Reagan said in his fifth pitch in four days for the plan. 
He also complained that the proposal was "being held hostage for wrangling over the debt ceiling, putting the federal government in an emergency situation. The business of our nation must go forward. We 
need  the  debt  ceiling  increase  
passed."  
Despite  Reagan's  warning,  the  

government operated normally yes­terday. 
Howt"ver, John Niehenkc, acting assistant Treasury secretary for domestic finance, said the govern­ment had a cash balance of S6.2 bil­lion at the close of business Friday and that this was likely to be ex­hausted yesterday. 
Deputy Treasury Secretary Ric­hard Darman sent Dole a letter -one ofa series from the Treasury Depart­ment pleading for action on the debt limit -saying that when the govern­ment till becomes empty, "It is my understanding that, upon such notification, the Federal Reserve will then have to notify the banking system not to honor any govern­ment checks or electronic fund transfers." 
The Reagan administration has re­quested an increase in the national debt limit from its current $1.824 trillion to $2.078 trillion. 
The House increased the debt limit on Aug. I a.o; part of the budget 
see BUDGET, page 4 
,· 


In contrast 

While Notre Dame student Amy Treder was serving up a tennis ball yesterday at the Courtney Tennis Center (photo right), Mother Nature decided to seroe up someth­ing else in North Dakota -the first accumulation of snow this season (photo above). 
Th(' ObKn:~r/Hecror Maccno 
Treasurer Eric Parzianello. 
Healy said he wasn't required to bring the matter of funding the project before the senate. He said, however, "I feel it should come before the senate for discussion." 
Off Campus Senator Jim Hagan asked Healy if he would let the senate decide on the funding then. "I didn't say that," said Healy. 
The future ofthe Adworks agency, a branch of Healy's cabinet that docs advertising work for student or­ganizations on campus, also was dis­cussed. 
"The eventual goal of Adwork.<; is to be independent of student government," said Healy. 
Domagalski disagreed with Healy. 
see ADWORKS, page 3 

. 
' 
.\.
...
,, 
I. 
',·;· 


SMC plans Hurley aid 
ByK.IMBERLY TRENNER 
Senior StaffReporter 
"We would like to propose a benefit to help aid Kevin Hurley's parents with medical support," said 
Elisa  Cullina  at  last  night's  Saint  
Mary's  Board  of  Governance  
meeting.  

Cullina, a resident assistant from McCandless Hall, asked the board to support her and others involved in their efforts to sponsor a fundraiser. The board agreed to help organize the fundraiser in any way possible. 
"We would like lots ofstudents to get involved," said Cullina. Con­cerned students and faculty from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are planning a possible costume dance, tentatively set for Nov. I, she said. 
In other matters, the American College Union's International Con­ference, held at Saint Mary's this past weekend, appears to have been a success, said Anne Marie Kollman, Saint Mary's student body president. 
"It was a lot of fun. We think 
people left with a very good feeling 
about Saint Mary's," said Kollman. At 
the conference, student leaders 
from other colleges around the 
country gathered to exchange ideas 
and sharpen leadership skills, she 
said. 
In other business, it was an­nounced that Cathy Rigby was unable to speak at the O'Laughlir'l Theater last night because of a last minute television engagement. Rigby will be coming to Saint Mary's at a future date. 
Also announ~·cd at the meeting was the board's plans for a Gripe Night on Tuesday, Oct. IS, from 7 
p.m. until 9 p.m. Six phones in Hag· gar College Center will be open for students to air their complaints. 
It was also announced last night that the board will sponsor a movie night tomorrow in Carroll Hall. At 7 p.m., "Raiders of the Lost Ark," will be shown, and "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom," will be shown at 9:1 S p.m. 



In Brief 
Potential AIDS victims will not automatically be denied insurance coverage because they are men belonging to the high-risk group, an insurance company spokesman said yesterday. But unmarried men between the ages of 20 and 49 living in cities with high numbers ofAIDS victims will be questioned more closely and may pay higher premiums, said Bill Forsythe ofLincoln National Corporation. The corporation is the holding company for Lincoln National Life Insurance Co., which suggested underwriters use mari­tal status, "lifestyle, habits, or medical history" to identify potential victims of the disease, the Dallas Times Herald reported. In a letter sent to unde~riters injuly, the company also discussed the value of an AIDS virus screening test to reduce the insurance risk. Applicants with diagnosed AIDS, like those with diagnosed cancer or heart. disease, would be denied coverage, he said. -AP 
Doses ofsteroids appear to protect young victims of cystic fibrosis from lung damage, the single greatest cause of illness and death in this common inherited disease, researchers say. The study, conducted at Harvard University and Children's Hospital in Boston, showed that children who took the drug had healthier lungs and spent less time in the hospital than did a comparison group. After four years, "we felt we had to stop the study, because it was becom­ing so obvious that the steroid group was better. We felt we needed to open it up and let people know," said Dr. Harvey Auerbach, who directed the study. Steroids reduce inflammation, but they can cause serious side effects. The researchers said they do not recommend the drugs for routine use in cystic fibrosis until their findings are confirmed by a larger study. -AP 

Of Interest 
The Notre Dame Management Club is 
sponsoring the third annual Business Careers Forum tonight at 7 in the Library Auditorium. The forum will feature speakers from various business fields who will give short presentations on different aspects of professions in the business field. A panel discussion is planned. The public is invited. -The Obseroer 
The Center for Social Concerns wm be the 
site of a special luncheon tomorrow beginning at 11 :30 a.m. The proceeds from the event will be given to a group ofCarmelite Sisters in South Bend who soon will be traveling to. Mexico City to aid its earthquake victims. The event is open to the public. -The Obseroer 
juniorClasS night out at the Beacon Bowl is tonight begin­ning at 9. The bowling night is open to all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame juniors. -The Obseroer 
German gardens at Oktoberfestwill be this 
Thursday night at Saint Mary's. The gardens this year are open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Danny and The Deadbeats will entertain and admission is free. Included is a Beer Garden for those 21 and older. An ID and n admission is required for the Beer Garden. The German Gardens will be located on the northeast field at Saint Mary's, behind the Science Building. · The Obseroer 
Professor Peter Walshe will give a lecture titled "South Africa: What's it all about?" tonight at 8 in the Library Lounge. The event is sponsored by the African and Black Studies programs, in cooperation with the Anti-apartheid Network. -The Obseroer 


Weather 
Take offyour pants and put on your shorts today as it will be partly sunny with a high in the mid 70s. Partly cloudy skies are expected tonight with a low in the lower 50s. It should be mostly cloudy tomorrow with a 30· percent chance of showers and a high of 70 to 75.-AP 


The Observer. 
The Observer (LISPS ';99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( $20 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The 

Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Design Editor .............................. Tom Small Design Assistant ..............Tracy Schindele Layout Staff.......................... Maria Murphy Typesetters ...................... Suzanne Hammer Mary Ellen Harrington News Editor .............................. Scott Bearby Copy Editor ....................... Mark Pankowski Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Scheuermann Viewpoint Copy Editor.......... Sue Dunbar Photographer ..................... Hector Moreno Viewpoint Layout.. .................. Miriam Hill Dally Quotes ........................... Tom Darrow Features Copy Editor............... Tim Adams Features Layout...................... Karen Webb ND Day Editor ......................... Doug Hasler SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle AdBesign ............................ Sharon Emmite Mary Carol Creadon Typists ........................................ Colleen Foy Maura McKeever 



Some students don't make grade in handling pressure of college life 
"Don't burry, don't worry. You're only here for a short visit. So be sure to stop and smell the flowers." Walter C. Hagen (1892-1969) The New York Times,May22, 1977 
Do grades get in the way ofan education? 
There is a difference between a person who genuinely wants to learn, who has a goal in mind and is serious about reaching it, and the person who will do anything to "get the 'A.' " 
The latter is the cutthroat: Someone who acciden­tally erases another's computer program, clumsily knocks over another's chemistry solution, or mis­takenly spills coffee on another's 15-page history paper. 
Competition among students encompasses the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses, creating the utmost pressure. This competitive attitude can force students into a survival-of-the-fittest mentality. 
The same sense of com­petition that prompts stu· dents to do their best, however, can be unhealthy. 
A cutthroat sets out to stop the competition and to hurt another person's chances. He thinks his study philosophy should be the 
body. If he goes to
library, so should you. 
Because of the cutthroat's influence, he can harm his own identity as well as anot· her's. Whether it is study habits, social life, extra· curricular activities or even rqmantic interest, the cut­throat seems to emphasize 
what he wants to do. 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame offer programs to assist students such as these to guide them if they feel pressured. In addition, both schools offer programs to help students in their career choices. 
Counseling and Career Development is a center at Saint Mary's offering many programs for students. Study skills, time management, test-taking techniques, and personal problems can be dealt with at the center. 
The director of the center, Mary DePauw, said, "We try to be very sensitive to the time demands on students and to package quality educational programs with that in mind." 
Students need to "cherish individual differences, and begin again to have joy in one another's successes," DePauw added. While stressing the necessity of a healthy balance in one's life, DePauw said the center is available to help students cope with everything from career decisions to personal problems. 
Notre Dame also offers assistance at the Counseling 
You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 


Margie Kersten 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
and Psychological Services Center. Individual and group counseling is available to students, according to Mary Raeker, who is a graduate student in psychology at Notre Dame. Raeker works at the center as a psychol­ogy trainee and is in charge of the Counseline, which is open to students Monday through Friday from 4 p.m. until midnight. 
Students can call anonymously and request a variety of tapes including, "Coping with Stress," "How to Handle Fears," "Building Self Esteem and Confidence," 
"Learning to Accept Your­self," and "Anxiety and Pos­sible Ways to Deal With It." 
Possibly one of the most important factors for ef­fective study is time management and study skills. If a person masters these, he will be able to in· crease his perceptive skills 
-and broaden his interests. 
Through the programs of­fered at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, then, students can advance their own skills and re-examine their per­sonal identity. 
Grades are a personal choice. A negative attitude towards competition can be created by the cutthroat stu­
dent, and other students could lose their identities by trying to live up to another student's expectations. If you want the 'A,' go for it. 
But if the 'B' would satisfy you and give you a few extra hours to yourself, or time spent in other activities like taking walks, talking with friends, and sincerely trying to get to know people -that's what is important. 
A well-rounded student who can get along with ot­hers, articulate his own opinion and adapt to social and work situations, will succeed. It is not necessary to spend 99 percent of the day in the library. 
Yes, grades could get in the way ofan education. But only if you let them. If you take the time to be with others and stop and smell the roses, your education will be enhanced. 


The Observer Tuesday, October 8, 1985 -page 2 





-SENIORS­
.Explore your desire ---tolearn, 
---togive, ---togrow, 
___and to love with 

Holy Cross Associate Program in Chile 
A two-year post-graduate commitment in service in community lifestyle. 
For more information contact:  
*Mary Ann Roemer  ~M. J. Murray  
Center for Social Concerns:  Associates Office:  
239-7949  239-5521  Application Deadline November 7th  

The Observer Tuesday, October 8, 1985 -page 3 




Overhaul of Scholastic produces betterments in magazine operation 
ByWENDY P. CALLAHAN The magazine's format this year al­was paid with the excess funds in the News Staff lows students to glance quickly 1984-85 budget, Basile said. A Uni· through the magazine and pick out versity loan provided the rest of the 
A change for the better could be those articles that interest them, cost, he added. the Scholastic's theme this year. Basile said. Scholastic will pay off the loan in 
Because the magazine for Notre "There is something for approximately two years with the Dame and Saint Mary's "was not get­everyone," Basile added, referring to leftover funds in its budget and ad­ting through to students last year," Scholastic's articles, editorials and vertising income, Basile said. changes have been made this year in calendar which lists campus events 
Scholastic's business practicesScholastic's content, production and for the upcoming two weeks. 

also have been improved, accordingbusiness practices, according to Jim The change in production to Basile. All business operationsBasile, Scholastic editor-in-chief. primarily involved the purchase of a have been "tightened up," he said,$15,000 typesetter, he said. For­

The changes in content this year referring to the magazine's lower 
merly, the Scholastic sent its articles 
include articles "more relevant to costs and more efficient procedures
to the Ave Maria Press to be typeset,
the student but at the same time this year. 
which was both more costly and
raise important issues," said Basile. 
more time consuming than with the More people are working for 
Financial aid and a guide to new typesetter, Basile said. Scholastic this year, Basile said. This Chicago have been the core of the The new typesetter has cut year's staff, which now numbers ap­first two issues of the Scholastic production time by approximately proximately 30 people, is triple the published this year. In future issues, two weeks, enabling the Scholastic size oflast year's staff, Basile said. the Scholastic will explore such to publish twice a month, said Basile. All these changes, according to topics as minority students and the Last year the Scholastic published Basile, will lead to Scholastic's "goal state of the Notre Dame business three times per semester, he said. of being a competitive and impor­school, he said. Most of the cost of the typesetter tant part of Notre Dame." 
Controversial 'Hail Mary' debuts 
A88oclated Press "We believe in some sort of scenes, but there is no sex. decency and decorum in dealing As in the Biblical story, Mary is a with matters religious. There is pregnant virgin, and Godard focuses
Students participated In a campus-wide prayer for world peace 
NEW YORK· "Hail Mary," the film obscene language being used, and on the struggles of Mary and Joseph
at the Grollo last night. The event was sponsored by Campus Mini­
which was hounded out of Rome by obscene scenes," said John Puthen­to come to terms with divine insemi­
stry and the Notre Dame Network forjustice and Peace. 
a wrathful pope, made its U.S. debut veetil, executive director of the nation. The film takes little interest yesterday amid fresh protests by Greater New York chapter of the in the child. 
Roman Catholics who cannot envi· Catholic League for Religious and At one point, Gabriel and a little 
sion the Blessed Virgin as a nude Civil Rights, which coordinated the girl angel tell joseph that he must 
starlet. protests. have trust. "And love, you jerk!"



P----------------•I 
~..t~2 I Cardinal John O'Connor lnJean-Luc Godard's film, Mary is Gabriel adds, slapping Joseph hard.I ~ I denounced the film as an avid basketball player who works The story of Mary, Godard said at a "blasphemous and sacrilegious," at a gas station; Joseph is a dreamy news conference after Friday'sA DEUfPIZ lA and demonstrations were planned at and frustrated cabdriver; Gabriel an screening, happens every day. Every Lincoln Center during yesterday unshaven, unsavory-looking angel man must take his wife's word about evening's premiere at the 23rd New who travels by jet. Mary, played by her child's paternity. "Every man
I 233-3964 I York Film Festival. Myriem Roussell, is nude in several must trust his wife," he said. 
I I 

III II  October Feast $5buysyou a large pizza with 2 items with this ad. "We're Talkin' Quality"  I I I I 1  
11  1511 Portage Ave ------­ One block north ofMartin's ---------­ 11 

GROW WITH AWINNER 
...Alongside The Proven Professionals At Touche Ross 
Planning a career In public accounting? 
Wont to join on established Big Eight firm that en­courages initiative and creativity and offers challenge and opportunity? 
Then consider Touche Ross-one of the fastest­growing accounting firms In the Big Eight-and grow with a winning team. 
Over the post 40 years, we've built a global network connecting 17,000 accounting professionals In 8 7 countries. with over 80 U.S. locations. We've grown because we provide top-quality services and hove built a reputation for professional leadership and Innovation In our profession. 
Whatever the function-accounting and auditing, tax, management consulting, and other diverse special services-we strive to attract and develop the best talent. Soon, we'll be visiting the University of Notre Dome, because we know some of that talent con be found right here. Each year we Interview thousands of Bachelor's and Mosfer's degree can­didates In Accounting, along with JD/LLM degree candidates for Tax positions. 
Start mopping your future In public accounting now by contacting your placement office and finding out more about Touche Ross. Representatives from our finn will be Interviewing at the Career Placement Office on October 14-15. Equal opportunity employer m/f. 
0 Touche Ross 
The Proven Professionals 

Meets Wednesday 7:00p.m. At the WUson Commons 

Come & Join us in aDash... You Are Not Alone! 
If you need more information, Call Linda Monroe 239-7336 
Consultants to 

International 
We have clients seeking qualified individuals with language and area expertise regarding foreign markets. 

Part-time and full-time assignments available. 
Foreign nationals with advance degrees from American universities needed as visa restrictions will not effect certain projects. 
Technical fields in hard sciences, 
computers, marketing and finance 
most desirable. 

Send resume, including telephone number to: 
Swenson, Crawford & Paine 
Executive Search Division 
P.O. BoxA3629 
Chicago, Dlinois 60690 

Yet not every woman learns ofher pregnancy from an angel, the dis­tinction which makes the film so controversial. 
The film has been praised by some Catholics and won a prize from the International Catholic Cinema Office at the Berlin Film Festival this year, but Puthenveetil said that anyone who takes the film a.~ a sin· cerely religious statement "doesn't understand the story." 
Promising further, unspecified ac­tion against the film when it opens its theatrical run in New York tomorrow, he said, "I think Cat· holies too often have been silent. I think it is time we proved we are not politi;al pygmies. 


Ad works 
continued/rom page 1 
"I can't see letting (Adworks) go," Domagalski said. "Why give them $7,500 for the system and then have them charge us (for their work)? ' 
"Let them make money from someone else," he said, "while we use it at no cost." 
District Senator Chris Abood agreed with Domagalski. "Why should we spend S7,000 to set them up and then let then become autonomous?" Abood asked. 
No final action was taken at the meeting. 
The possibility ofexcess money in the Student Activities fund also was discussed by the senate. "We budgeted for 7000 (students) and got money for 7331 ," said Par· zianello. 
All Notre Dame students pay a 135 Student Activities fee that goes into the Student Activities fund. 
"We are guaranteed about $5,000 of the extra $11 ,000," said Par· zianello. "The rest can be withdrawn by the registrar as students withdraw in the first or second semester," he said. "We will have the exact amount In February. 
"I think we should postpone this until February when it becomes available," said Domagalski. "(Vice President for Student Affairs) Father (David) Tyson said none of the money will be released until February." 
The Observer Tuesday, October 8, 1985 -page 4 
232 British police injured in rioting 
Allsoclated Press 
LONDON -Police threatened yes­terday to use tear gas and plastic bul­lets against street rioters, after some of the worst urban violence in Britain since 1981. One policeman was stabbed to death and 232 fellow officers were injured. 
Twenty civilians also were hurt when more than 500 youths, some armed with shotguns, machetes and staves, battled police Sunday night and early yesterday in the racially mixed north London district ofTot­tenham. 
Police Commissioner Sir Kenneth Newman told a news conference the riot -the fourth major outbreak of urban violence in Britain in a month -was the first in mainland Britain in modern times in which guns were used and a police officer was killed. 
Newman said he sent tactical squad officers armed with plastic bullets and tear gas to the scene at lhe height of the violence but the riot was contained without using them. 
"But I wish to put all people of London on notice that I will not shrink from such a decision should I believe it a practical option for res­toring peace and preventing crime and injury," he warned. 
British police have never used plastic bullets in riots outside Nctr­thern Ireland, and tear gas has not been used since the 1981 distur­
bance  in  the  Toxteth  district  of  
Liverpool.  
Except  for  Northern  Ireland,  

where all police patrols are armed, police in Britain traditionally carry only night sticks and go into riots protected by body-length plastic shields. 
Home Secretary Douglas Hurd, the Cabinet official in charge of the police, said he fully supported the use of plastic bullets "if police find themselves being attacked by petrol bombs." 
The rioters, blacks and whites, ap­peared to be aiming at police, whom they blamed for the death ofCynthia Jarrett, a 49-year-old black woman who collapsed and died of an ap­parent heart attack during a police search of her home on Saturday night. 
Newman said Patrolman Keith Henry Blakelock, a 40-year-old fat­her of three, "was savagely mur­dered" during an attack by about 100 youths wielding machetes, knives and an axe. Police yesterday recovered a knife found near the scene of the attack. 
Scotland Yard said 69 injured policemen were treated at hospitals and 163 were treated at the scene for less serious injuries. Five were reported in serious condition, in­cluding one officer who was hit on the head by a slab of concrete and was suffering from kidney failure. 
Seven people, including two policemen and four journalists, suf­
fered  shotgun  wounds  and  one  
civilian  suffered  serious  stab  
wounds.  

Rioting in 20 towns and cities in 1981 injured hundreds ofpolice and rioters, caused millions of dollars in damage and led to 4,000 arrests. In the past month, riots have swept Bir­mingham, where two Asian brothers were killed, and London's Brixton district. There also was serious un­rest in Liverpool. 
Bernie Grant, the black leader of Haringey Council, which covers Tottenham, said the police treat­ment ofJarrett was an "atrocious ac­tion" and said it caused the Tottenham rioting. 
Police have refused to comment beyond an initial statement that said when Jarrett collapsed, the officers "were physically shoved out of the house." They were later allowed back in to administer mouth-to­mouth resuscitation, but the effort to revive the woman failed, the state­ment said. 

United States reverses view ofWorld Court authority 
Allsociated Press 

WASHINGTON -The United States, reversing almost four decades of policy, announced yesterday it would limit U.S. recognition of decisions by the World Court, which is hearing Nicaraguan charges that America illegally is supporting anti­government rebels. 
"Our experience with compul­sory jurisdiction has been deeply disappointing," the State Depart­ment said in a statement. It accused the Soviet Union and Cuba of using the court as "a political weapon." 
The action, approved by Presi­dent Reagan, reverses 39 years of 
U.S. policy and takes effect in six months. Formal notice was given to U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar. 
The State Department's state­ment, read by spokesman Charles Redman, said Reagan concluded that continuing to accept the court's compulsory jurisdiction Nicaraguans are supported by Cuba and the Soviet Union," Abraham Sofaer, the State Depart­ment's legal adviser, said later at a news briefing. "We believe that the Nicaraguan effort to export revolution is a part of a general effort by Communist regimes to take over and undermine democracies." 
"would endanger our  vital na­ 
tional interests."  
"We  believe  that  the  

Sofaer said the charges brought by Nicaragua to the World Court should have been taken to the U.N. Security Coun­cil; the Contadara group Mexico, Venezuela, Panama and Colombia -that is dealing with Central American problems; or to another forum. But he said the case did not belong in the World Court. 
Paul Reichler, a lawyer for Nicaragua in the Court case, called the U.S. action "an outrage." He said the administra­tion had demonstrated "contempt" for international law.. 
The Court ruled "that this is a legal dispute, raising fundamen­tal questions under the U.N. charter," Reichler said. 




Hijack 
continued/rom page 1 
for the ship and passengers, the offi­
cials reported. 
In Tel Aviv, a spokesman said the 
Foreign Ministry was in close con­
tact with Italian officials and the Is­
raeli Cabinet was being summoned 
for a meeting this morning. 
Other Israeli officials said 
Konaiterry was one of four Pales­
tinians who landed on the Israeli 
coast at Nahariya on April 22, 1979, 
and seized Dani Haran and his five­
year-old daughter as hostages. The 
hostages were killed as Israeli sol­
diers closed in; two guerrillas were 
slain in a gunfight and the other two 
captured. 
It was not known how the hijack­
ers took control of the ship, which 
had been scheduled to dock in Port 
Said at 9 p.m. (3 p.m. EST). 
Italian news agencies quoted the 
Foreign Ministry as saying the 
hijackers were armed and had a 
large supply of explosives with 
which to blow up the ship. 
There were conflicting estimates on the number of hostages aboard the ship. 
An Italian official involved in the crisis command said there were 340 crew members and "about 60 to 80 passengers aboard the ship." 
"The passengers seem to be treated well on the basis of what we've learned from Egyptian aut­horities" who were in radio contact with the ship, the official added. 
"We don't know how it hap­pened," he said. "The crew ap­parently was disabled, but we don't know if the hijackers boarded in Alexandria or from the sea." 
Egyptian officials said they believed there were 160 passengers aboard the ship when it was com­mandeered. 
Port officials in Naples said the ship originally carried 840 pas­sengers, including approximately 300 West Germans, 160 Italians, 120 Britons and others from France, Spain and the United States. 

Budget 
continuedjrompage 1 
outline it passed. But a separate vote is needed in the Senate. 
Supporters of the balanced budget plan offered by Senators Phil Gramm, R-Texas, Warren Rudman, R-N.H., and Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., with the blessing of GOP leaders, have seized the debt limit legislation to force action on their proposal. 
Non-smokingtravel minded roommate 
seeks samefor fun andadventure. 
This semester. move in v..ith aMacintosh~ The point being. Macintosh helps student'\ For starters, its incredibly light and compact. So work better, quicker and more creatively. you can take it places. And the beaut\· of ~lac intosh is. mu don·t 
And more important. Macintosh can take have to know diddle~· about computers' to use one. you places. From Biology IOI to advanced physics. So if you·re going to hare a From beginning French to the Italian Renaissance. roommate. why not have one willing From an average student to aMagna Cum Laude. tb help you with your homework? 


~ ll)X-\ ..~lpll' t:omputl'r.lnc.:\ppk ami th.: .\ppll' lo~o art' n')!.l!'ltl'n:d tradt'mark.' 11\ -\pplt· Cnmputt·r.lrll \l:llllll1r-.l11\ .1 tradt·mark 11l \klt1t'"'l1 1~1h11Lilnn. lnl :111tl 1~ hl'lllJ.: u....,! \\llli 11:-l'\Prt'' ['ot:nlll,,llll. 
For More Information ... 
Contact: General Micro LaFortune Student Center 239-7477 









Accent 
Tuesday, October 8, 1985 -page 5 
We are spirits in the electric w 
have electric razors. Some students
Mary Berger have electric toothbrushes and 
many have contact lens cleaners. 
features writer 
R 
So, let's say the average student emember those Ronco com­electric pencil sharpener, oscillat­has an average of three appliances 
mercials on television before ing fan, and revolving desk lamp, he needs to use in the morning and 
and after every episode of there is a Macintosh computer just has only two outlets at his sink. That 
"Gilligan's Island?" "All this for only itching to be used. Ifthere's no means he either has two triple 
$19.9';. But that's not all! We'll also personal computer, there's an outlet converters plugged in so he 
include ..." were the key words electric typewriter stuffed some­and his roommate can each have 
that always caught my attention. where ncar the desk. three outlets, or he has his room 
The awe I felt while seeing all As our guest's eye travels around draped with extension cords. (I 
those wonderful gadgets I could get the room, he spies the dining area motion we have a "most-efficiently 
by just buying twenty-seven odd­of the room. Next to the granola decorated room" contest.) 
shaped, teflon poached-egg pans is bars, cup-of-soups, cookies, Tang, Finally our visitor is offered a 
probably similar to what the bread and peanut butter stands a seat. He settles down on a brown­
apostles felt when all those loaves refrigerator with a toaster, a hot plaid GoodwiH couch and con­
and fishes kept popping up. pot, a hot plate, and a toaster oven tinues to gaze around the room. He 
That's the same impression one atop it. (Makes you wonder ifthese spots a popcorn popper and a 
may have when he walks into a guys are running their own food blender under a bed and his host 
student's room and sees the mul­sales.) informs him the blender is for his 
titude ofelectric appliances staring Getting close to the sink area, the high-protein breakfast drink. Next 
him in the face (and hears the hum­grooming essentials spring up. to the bed is another lamp, an alarm 
ming of those gadgets hidden in There's a hair dryer with its cord clock, and the controller for an 
strategic places). twisted incredibly out of shape, and electric blanket. There's Gilligan smiling as the 
first, our visitor spies the stereo the ol' Water Pik without the base As our guest turns to ask his host credits roll when suddenly a voice 
and amplifier in the corner and the to hold the water. In girls' rooms how all ofthese appliances can run is heard, "How much would you 
speakers suspended from the there are curling irons, curling on so much electricity at the same expect to pay for these thirteen, 
ceiling. On the desk, beside the brushes, and hot rollers while guys time, he sees the television is on. sturdy, plastic bowls which fit 


Going fro01 abroad to South Bend: culture shock at ND 
Diane Emard, also ofthe Angers back. It's almost like I've developed hest transition for most. Although 
Kathy Martin 
program, called the social life here two sides ofmy personality." some students feel that they don't at Notre Dame "stifling." She said, Most returnees said they grew up fit in with new groups offriends,
features writer 
"It wasn't hard to make a social life a lot last year. "I learned as much in don't know many people, and stay 
C 
in Europe. You just went out and one year abroad as I could have in close with their fellow returnees, ulture shock is not unusual At Notre Dame, students were there it was. It wasn't the same four years here," said Wendy Noble most agree that roommates and 
when visiting a foreign country, wearing backpacks on one thing every weekend, either. You of the Saint Mary's Rome program. close friends have welcomed tham 
hut would you expect that when shoulder, packing in three classes were like one person in a crowd, "I learned another language and back with open arms and interested 
returning to your own campus? As worth ofbooks for the trek to the and nobody k.new you, so there how to get along in any foreign questions. "No matter how in­
hard as it is to believe, that is what library, rather than three weeks' were challenges and adventure." situation. I learned so much about tegrated you are into a culture 
almost every Notre Dame and Saint clothing and souvenirs for a trip AJise Moretti, a returnee from myselfand my limitations, but abroad," said Moretti, "you need 
Mary's foreign studies student feels across a continent. I could wear my Mexico City, said she has become we're treated like children here." those friends who really understand 
when he or she arrives back on Notre Dame shirts again without "more mellow without the cos­Jodie Githens of the 1983-1984 you. It's uncomfortable being so 
campus after a year abroad! people thinking I was from Paris! mopolitan atmosphere ofMexico Angers program also remarked, conspicuous abroad. 'There's the 
The reimmersion into a culture Returning to campus rules and City." But she also said that the "We had a lot of responsibility. We American,' they all say." of ten·page papers, football Satur­the alcohol policy can seem limit­noise and tension of Mexico City were sent abroad as ambassadors of Almost a whole quarter ofthe days, all-nighters, the alcohol ing after a year of total indepen­made her appreciate the beauty of America, but brought back and school year is over, and I guess our policy, SYRs, parietals, and scoping dence. Steve Butman ofthe Angers the Notre Dame campus. "It's so • treated like children." readjustment should be about com­in the dining halls can make just as program said, "When you go away quiet here, and you can see the Some returnees opt to move off plete. My memories of the year large a splash as the plunge into a and come back, you realize that stars. I forgot all about it until I got campus to make the readjustment abroad are tucked away safely, but I culture abroad. As an lnnsbruck Notre Dame has authority in more back here." easier. lnnsbrucker Xavier Zang still find myselfreaching for my returnee, I can vouch that readjust­areas ofyour life than you thought. The culture shock ofreturning to said, "I still have the freedom I had photo albums and journals quite ment to campus life, in comparison Without Notre Dame and your America is even greater for some abroad. I can come and go when I often, trying to integrate what I've with the freedom of the year parents, you have to make your participants in the Japan program, want and I got used to cooking for experienced and become in my life abroad, can be both frustrating and own decisions, control your own like Leo Scheibelhut. "Some ofwhat myselflast year. This way, I'm far at Notre Dame. I may not be enjoy­exciting. life. Europeans tend to be more I learned last year just doesn't fit in enough away from school to relax." ing the Austrian Alps in my back­
The decision whether or not to accepting and open. You can do or with society here. I have to put it The long-awaited reunion with yard anymore, but there's still no go abroad is the most difficult one be anything you want to." away, save it for the next time I go close friends is probably the smoot-place like home. of the freshman year for some. "Should I Stay or Should I Go?" became my theme song. As fresh­men, we had just arrived, survived Emil, and made a place for our­selves in the dorms, clubs, and with our groups of friends. It was hard to think about giving up that familiarity we had worked so hard to achieve, only to return to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's as third-year freshmen. 
In Austria, I was homesick for the green quads of Notre Dame, my friends, dorm life, the Grotto, even Italian night at South Dining Hall! Most of all, I missed that sense of bdonging to a community ofpeers with common goals, and those familiar sidewalk.-; on campus where I would see the same nameless but always smiling faces every day on the way to classes. Abroad, I dis­covered things I had taken for granted but couldn't live without: peanut butter, Pop-tarts, American music and dancing. The worst culture shock, though, was waking up to my roommate speaking Ger­man · I faked sleep a lot when I didn't understand! 
But returning from ten months abroad is just as much ofa culture shock as the foreign experience. Dollars and quarters seemed like Monopoly money, and iron steeples ofskyscrapers and power towers replaced the cathedral spires to which I had grown so accustomed. 

inside each for easy storage?" when suddenly the picture dies. His host checks the set, looks up, and shrugs, "Guess we blew a fuse!" 


~i~~~_()__i_Il___t_________________r_ue-sda-y,_oc-to-be-r8_,1_98-5~-pa~ge-6 
United States supports Israel's state terrorism 
People who do not understand the situation in Israel are very unlikely to approve of whatever Israel does because ofthe existence of powerful propaganda, especially in this country. 
Khalil Mrabet 
guest column 
As we all know, Israel conducted a so-called "retaliatory" action, according to the Israelis and their supporters, against the Palestine Liberation Organization headquarters in Tunisia. Tunisia is a sovereign Arab country which believes the Palestinians, like all other 
people,  have  the  right  to  exist  in  their  
homeland  and  have  the  right  to  ·self­ 
determination.  

. The Israelis' act ofterrorism is a very impor­tant issue in international politics. The action • itself is to be comdemned by every nation which believes in international law and respects other nations' sovereignity, includ­ing what they believe to be right or wrong. 
Influencing people's ideas or imposing cer­tain issues on them by acting against what all nations agreed on, just because you are militarily more powerful, is the pure defini­tion ofimperialism. 
The problem, however, is that the United States, one of the two superpowers to be sit­ting on the table ofdiscussions with the Soviet Union on arms controls, justifies the military act oflsrael as an "act ofretaliation against ter­rorism." They should have added "by the worst kind of terrorism." 
I call the Israelis' act state terrorism, which usually is accomplished by natit>ns. Small groups always are condemned for carrying out "acts of terrorism," but military countries are not. 
Ifthis is the case, then I believe the United States should have an air raid also on all the nuclear reactors in the Soviet Union, since Is­rael did it in 1981 against Iraq, with the ap­proval ofthe United States. 
This shows how the two superpowers have their hands tied. But Israel can do anything, with or without the blessing of the United States. Israel does not care about the decisions of the United Nations, on what all the· countries agree to be wrong. Ofcourse a deci­sion always will be vetoed ifit touches a close friend. And as a matter of fact, this has hap­pened several times in the past. 
This operation is a slap in the face ofpeace. The Israelis, feeling the pressure to sit face to face with people they have accused of being terrorists for as 'long as they are taking their land, took this action to put some barriers in the Middle East peace negotiations. 
If they wanted peace they never should do something to disturb the whole world, all the countries who denied the act and especially the Arab world. But their intention is to keep 
the land occupied in 1947 and 1967 by avoid­
ing any talks with the Palestinians. 

It is very difficult to imagine someone who 
wants peace flying more than 1,500 miles just 
to retaliate for the assassinations of three 
people for which the PLO denied all respon· 
sibility. I cannot imagine an act of terrorism 
done by a group ofpeople and not claimed; if 
this is the case, why did they do it? 

Violence brings about more violence. Everyone knows that for every action there is an equal an opposite reaction, but the Tunisians never will respond to terrorism by terrorism, and never will forget. They will defend integrity until the last effort, believing always in the civilized people and the future. 
We should learn a lot from the h.istory of civilizations, and never forget the past which is always the foundation of the future. Israel is not invincible, and Lebanon is the proof. 
Khalil Mrabet is a graduate stUdent at Notre Dame. 
Students responses to global concerns lacking 
Unfairness. 
Injustice. 
Revenge. 
These three recurring themes are bleeding much ink into the local media lately. 
Barbara Blanchette with earnest 
Open your eyes and really look at the issues. 
Perhaps the South African crisis is just a bit too heavy to deserve any student opinion in the papers, or at the dining halls. All that rioting and unjustified slaughter is just not worth the thought. The government has the right to discipline its own citizens, like a parent-child relationship, but here the babies are being murdered instead ofspanked. 
Apartheid is real, and Notre Dame has a cer­tain degree of investment leverage in the economic and political situation in Africa. Per­haps no one needs to get indignant about a situation so far away, but there is an active fac­tion in South Bend sponsoring aprotest march on Oct. 12. Take a step in the right direction, people, ifyou care to show any opinion at all. 
Hey, how about those Mexicans? An earthquake just swallowed up their capital city along with more than 4,000 people, nearly half of Notre Dame's population. Several Notre Dame students in the area for a foreign study program now are helping rescue teams cope with the aftermath. 
A terrific image for the University, and probably an experience the students never will forget. When is the last time you heard anything: comment, opinion, or speculation about the situation? Mexico is just south ofthe border, and near and dear to our Naugle­mangled stomachs, but even closer in the thoughts and prayers of many of these stu­dents' friends and family. 
Let us try something a little more seasonal: football. The spirit with which we cheered the Fighting Irish over Michigan State is waning 
again. Crowds who wrote impassioned letters 
and cried in their cups over the loss ofkegs at 
Green Field did enjoy the game, and learned 
how to drink out ofcans. 
The Irish's beloved coach, of whom many vocal fans were skeptical, saw strong support. After his loss to Purdue, there was doubt again. To the chagrin of many Observer foot­ball gurus, Notre Dame again has put forth an unpredictable team. 
Want a real challenge? Try predicting whose side the Irish fans will be on. 
A little closer to home we find that "monstrosity" and "architectural mutant," to quote several dining hall conversations not too far back. Massive construction efforts still are underway on the new Fieldhouse Mall, leveled for the students' enjoyment ofa green park-like pathway. It was a hot topic, attract­ing anger and response from all sides. 
Students tried building their own cardboard monuments designed to reduce University costs by 5,000 percent. Some resourceful North. Quad students even dug 
graves near Zahm, and whether they were 
reacting directly to the monument's presence 
or not, they showed some initiative and 
creativity on the part of a large, talented stu· 
dent body. 

This seems to have been the last, and most 
recent student reaction to any University or 
College policies. Hey, is there anybody out 
there? 

Student reaction comes alive in spurts of energy, some of it at times not really focused on the most important issues in our tiny, and getting tinier, world. 
Once hotbeds for social reaction, campuses should be alive with the opinions and state­ments of fervent young minds. Causing con­flict within one's community is destructive, yet refusing to respond to global concerns can lead to other wrongs, like death. 
Barb Blanchette is a senior English major from Saint Mary's and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Drunkenness not necessary for drinking pleasure 

For all of the drinking that occurs on campus, there is little discussion ofthe proper etiquette of drinking. As in all social en­deavors, there should be an etiquette ob­served that insures proper sociability and pleasure in a resposible way. 
Michael Ialacci the troubadour 
I will offer my own opinions on the matter, 
not as having all the answers, not as approach­
ing the ultimate truth, but as offering some 
thoughtful reflections that will cause others to 
think on the matter as well. 
The end, the objectives, in drinking form­ulate one's entire attitude on the subject. The proper end is crucial for resposible social drinking. The proper end of drinking should be to increase the pleasurability of a social context. It is perfectly acceptable, for ex­ample, to drink because one likes the taste, or one wants to be "loose", or one enjoys tht" fd-
Doonesbury 
lowship in drinking. Drunkenness is unuer­standable (though not condoned) if, in the course of these ends, one drinks too much. 
Drinking with the intention to get drunk, however, is totally unacceptable. First, it is morally irresponsible. A choice of drunken­ness is a choice of potential destructiveness and obnoxiousness. It is a choice of dulling one's social, moral and mental faculties. One loses his ability to control his actions. Such a choice, then, is far from acceptable. 
Second, drinking to get drunk is not socially amenable. One loses the ability to carry on a conversation, or to dance with any degree of alacrity. One no longer is sensitive to other people's changing emotions, discourse or opinions and cannot properly respond. One does not adequately commingle with people. A choice of drunkenness is effectively a choice ofisolation. 
Finally, the pleasure derived from drinking grows commensurately less in proportion to the pain as one approaches drunkenness. There is a law of diminishing returns in drink· 
5TIU. FOOLING ONL-Y ASA I fAi.JRK£0 WITH
fT'5 6R£AT 
YOU 
AROUNO WITH 5/0tL./Nt. I'M HIM ATAPPU3.
7V5£E. YOU 
700, 
HAUUC/NAT!Vt M05TLY IN70
, AGAIN, 8&RN!t/ 
MIK&! 
IMA61N6, I 5tE.. HACKING THESE
j I 
I 
OAYS.

\ 
ing. The social pleasures of fellowship, con­versation, even the general feeling of well-being fade as one approaches drunken­ness. Conversely, however, the physical sick­ness and nausea increase. How enjoyable can drinking be if the inevitable outcome is im­molation before the Porcelain God? The choice of drunkenness is hardly a choice for optimum pleasure. 
Once establishing an end, the style ofdrink­ing must necessarily correspond to it.The style, then, should be relaxed, sociable and moderate. Thus, drinking should occur in a wider social context: within a meal, within a party, within a conversation. It should not be the sole activity to the exclusion of social in­tercourse. Drinking games, then, are unaccep: table because they elevate drinking from its proper social context and make it an activity of its own (whose end is more times than not to get drunk). Beer "chugging" and beer "bongs" are also unacceptable for similar reasons. They divorce drinking from its proper social context, are strenuous and not 
relaxed, and preclude social intercourse. And again, the end is often to get drunk in the fastest way possible. Drinking should be an in­gredient in a healthy social environment, not the means of abandoning such an environ­ment. 
I wish to make clear that I am not a teetotaler. I do not disparage drinking in the proper context. I am also not so naive as to think everyone will think about responsible drinking, let alone adopt an etiquette ofdrink· ing. I am also not so self-righteous as to claim always to follow the stringency of my eti­quette. I understand human failing and weak­ness. Yet I am firmly convinced we can all follow the spirit of an etiquette even ifwe oc­casionally fail. Drinking can be a pleasurable and socially amenable experience if we ob­serve moderation and reason in our enjoy­ment. We need not get drunk to get the most out ofdrinking. 
Michaellalacci is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
~------------------------------~ 
Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the day 
"We have no right to ask when sorrow comes, 'Why did this happen to me?' un­less we ask the same ques­tion for every joy that comes ourway." 
PhilipS. Bernstein Quote 

-----~ ~--­
"ieVVP-~O~i~n~t~--------------------------------------------T_u_es_d_a_y,_o_c_to_b_e_r_s_._I9_B_s_-_P_ag_e__7 
Flexibility of Gorbachev outshines Reagan image 
'!be upcoming Geneva summit between the United States and the Soviet Union gives J>resident Reagan a chance to display his rt.·markablc showmanship. But he has a for­midable adversary. Miklhail Gorbachev has proven himself quite a propagandist, one who can hold his own against Reagan in the game of gaining friends and influencing the world opinion. What we see is Reagan going into the November meetings a step behind the Soviet leader, or at least that is an opinion widely held by the rest of the world. 
Ken Kollman no easy solutions 
·1be Canadian Globe and Mail says that the "hard-nosed tactics of the Reagan administra­tion have inadvertently reinforced the impression of flexibility created by the Gor­bachev leadership." Uno Mas Uno from Mexico City writes "we hope the Reagan­<Jorbachcv mt·eting will induce in both ­especial~)' fn Reaga" -the belief that it is pos­sible to halt the arms race ..." (emphasis added). India's Economic Times hopes that tht· summit will "clarify the degree of prag· mat ism that ( Gorbachev) will bring to bear on improving relations with the United States." 
'lbcre is mort·. 'Inc French Liberation tells us that the "Soviet leader holds the advantage," and Ha'arctz of Israel writes, "There is no sign that President Reagan in­tends to give in on 'Star Wars'." 
<Jorbachev has developed an image of the llcxiblc, diplomatic leader while ReaKan is 
Sacrificing character not what ND is about 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to express my disappointment with a new line of clothing that refers to our football opponents. I do not know who is sel­ling it, but it Is very tasteless. I am talking about the shirts and hats which use an obs<:enc word and our opponent's name with tht· first letter of each word interchanged. To the people who bought them, it would be nicer If you would just throw your money in the trash rather than purchase something of that nature. It is obvious what these oh-so­ckver thing~ arc saying. It makes you look foolish, but worse, it makes the University look bad~ Wht·n a visitor, alumnus or anyone else sees you with it on, the sad fact is that they do not see you doing it; instead, they see only a Notre Dame student doing it. You know, that is not how we do things at Notre Dame. We 
seen wallowing in rigid idealism, a man who will not budge on any issue. It is fairly obvious that the Soviets have scored a hefty propaganda victory in the last several months. 
Images and world opinion aside, though, is Reagan actually far behind? I do not think so. The President has been trying to minimize the importance of the summit with the hope of deflating expectations. Meanwhile, Gorbac­hev has been determined to sway Western hearts and minds in his direction and is out on the stump to do so. 
Some signs of the lack of Soviet advantage are the several concessions they have made recently. They have given in on "Star Wars," in effect, by agreeing to research programs on missile defense systems as long as tests and development of the weapons in space are not used. And they recently offered a fifty percent reduction in long range and medium range missiles by both superpowers. Although the United States is still looking over the proposals, intuition tells me that Reagan will balk. 
The Soviets are flexible precisely because of their disadvantage. While he continually claims "Star Wars" is not a bargaining chip, Reagan uses it as one, and it is working. All of the sudden Gorbachev throws offers on the table, which tells me that there is fear in the minds of the Soviets. 
The fear is not necessarily of the U.S. advantage. Consider this quote from Bladimir Lomeyko, spokesman for the Soviet Foreign Ministry, as reported by the German weekly, Die Zeit: "We want to set our house in order. We need time and money to do so. We do not want to spend more on arms." 
With Gorbachev's energetic efforts to rejuvenate the Soviet economy, nothing could be more detrimental than a spiraling defense budget. The Geneva talks in Novem­ber give Gorbachev an opportunity to bargain for reductions in their defense expenditures, and for this reason, the summit may be the single most important·factor in determining the degree of recovery by the Soviet economy. Ifthe United States continues to in­crease its defense budget, Gorbachev feels he must keep pace. However, any mutual reduc­
tions would help him in his efforts to improve 
his country's fiscal health. 
'!bus, while Gorbachev has played the world press for all its worth, Reagan still holds the real advantage; it is the Soviets who are showing their cards first. This gives the United States time to react and counter to its benefit. So much for world opinion. 
Ken Kollman is a sophomore English and got'ernment major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 



P.O.BoxQ 
are not perfect, but we are admired by people all around the world because we have the reputation of achieving excellence while maintaining our dignity. We are supposed to be the good people, the people others look to for high moral character, the people others admire -that is why we are special! 
I remember a story from a few years ago about a Notre Dame football game. After making a great stop, a freshman Notre Dame defender started to jump up and down and taunt the opponent he had just tackled. Quickly, an older Notre Dame defender pulled him aside and said "We don't do that at Notre Dame." That is what we are all about: trying to be the best we can be and never sacrificing our character. 
1 urge you not to huy from this merchan­diser anymore. This stuff is not cool, see what I'm saying? Thanks! 
john Byrne Notre Dame student 

The Obset:Ver~~~~­
P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes, leners and the lns1de Column present the views of their authors. Column space is ava1lable to all members of the community and the free express1on of varying opinions on campus, through leners, IS encouraged. 
Neither party benefits from overexaggeration 
Dear Editor: 

I will choose to ignore the fact that the con­versation Jean Rozum referred to in her letter ofOct. 3 seemed singularly unlikely or at least out of context, and instead I will take her ac­count at face-value. I must compliment you on your superb way of formulating your opinions. If, in your view, one isolated inci­dent is a sufficient basis for the establishment ofa stereotype, then I think you should spend more time worrying about yourself instead of worrying about the image propagated by Saint Mary's women. I will give you an example to illustrate to you why your method is so narrow-minded. During World War II, there was a fascist movement in Northern America (no doubt there still is). :Yet the rest of the world did not jump to the conclusion that the United States was a fascist state. But the reasoning in your enlightening letter seems to suggest that in your view, the United States was indeed fascist at that time. 
I would agree with you when you say that there are some women at Saint Mary's who are there for the sole purpose of getting hitched to a Domer. So, what else is new? You are, wit­hout a doubt, one of the last bastions ofsheer naivity left in the world if you seriously believe that such women do not exist at Notre Dame also. May we infer that Notre Dame women need to clean up their image as well? No, we may not. I believe that, if a generaliza­tion is called for, both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame women deserve very good images. 
As a result of people like you throwing out these red-herrings, both you and many out­siders believe that there is a battle going on between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. For your information, this is not the case. It is not the women that are here for the purpose of getting married that bring reputations down. 
Rather, it is due to people like you who choose to exaggerate so much that these minorities begin to seem like majorities to those who do not know better. I would ap­preciate it very much if you and people like you would keep your misconceptions to your­selves because they only serve to stir up trouble. Neither establishment will win but both will lose. 
Evan Smyth FtsberHa/1 
Rozum did damage to image of ND women Dear Editor: 
I cannot believe that after four years I am becoming involved in one of the classic battles on the Observer's Viewpoint page. However, I am appalled by jean Rozum's let­ter regarding the motivations of the women who attend Saint Mary's College. I will not address the individual points raised in the let­ter, for I am afraid that my criticism will be too sarcastic. It will suffice to say that such prejudice is awfully petty for an "enlightened" Notre Dame woman. 
We could go on for weeks swapping stories that would support the ridiculous stereotypes of the women on both campuses. Yet the fact remains, although a few of these caricatures exist, there are serious, intelligent, generous and beautiful women on both campuses. So let us all rejoice in the fact that we are lucky enough to be members of the Saint Mary's­Notre Dame Community. 'lbere are far too many important and productive things to be done for us to waste our time in meaningless and damaging competition. 
Rozum, clean up your own act! You have made far too many Notre Dame women "aware of the damages (their) own college residents are doing to (their) reputation." 
Douglas M. Griffiths Alumni Hall 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ..........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ....................... ................ Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor............ . ........ Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Lipo 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ..................~ Dav1d Stephenl!ch Controller ........ ................... William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager . . ........... ... J1m Hagan Systems Manager .. ~ ~ .~ ................ Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ... ~ ~ .......... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 

r 
Sports Briefs 
Father Hesburghwill participate in a report on sports in American culture tonight at 5:30p.m. on CBS-TV's "The Evening News with Dan Rather." The program airs locally on WSBT-TV, chan­nel 22. -The Observer 
The ND JV hockey team will be meeting tomorrow at 7:15p.m. in the hockey pro shop in the ACC. Call Marty at 277-7571 for more information.-The Observer 
Classifieds 
Tuesday, October 8, 1985 -page 8 
Prospective SMC varsity swimmers will 
be meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. -The 
Observer 

Prospective ND basketballwalk-ons will 
try out for the men's team on Tuesday, Oct. 1 5, from 8 p.m. to 10 
p.m. Anyone who is interested should report to the ACC auxiliary gym by 7:45p.m. on that day. Call Coach Kilcullen in the basketball office (239-5337) for more information. Women's tryouts will be Wednesday, Oct. 16 from 8:30p.m. to 10 p.m.-The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 9 

The Ob.<erl'<'T Notre Dame offke. IO<.:ateJ on tht· third lloor of LaFortunt· Student Center. acncpts dassifieJ aJ\'t:rlisin!{ from') a.m. until·~ p m.. ,\olonJay through Friday Thl! Ob.H•rr•er Saint :\-I an's offke. located on till' third tloor of Haggar College Center. accepts cla"ifkJs from I.!:.~0 p.m. until .~p.m .. ~·I on· Jay though Friday lkaJiine for nt·xt·Ja\' cla"ifkJs is -~ p.m. All classifieJs must he prepaid. eith<:r in pt:rM>n or h\· mail. Chargt· is I0 cents pn fin·charac· ters erda\'. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAilABlE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHRia 234-8tltl7 
$11HMC) WEEKLY/UP IIAIUNG CIII­CULAMI NO QUOTAS! SINCERELY INTEJIIUTED RUSH IRF· ADOI'IEISED ENVELOPE: auccESS, PO BOX 470CEG, WOOOITOCK, IL 
110018. 
START YOUR CAREER NOW EARN MONEY AND WORK ON FORTUNE 500 COMPANIES' MARKET­ING PROGRAMS ON CAMPUS. PART· TIME (FLEXIBLE) HOURS EACH WEEK. WE GIVE REFERENCES. CALL 1-8Q0­243-6679. 
DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU WANT TO AFTER GRADUATION? WANT TO FIND OUT A80UT CAREER OPPORTUNITIES, ENTWY LEVEL P081TIONI, AND HIRING ClltTERIA FOR THE PETROLEUM, RETAIL, MANAGEMENT CONSULTING AND NEWSPAPER INDUSTIUU? THEN AT· TEND : THE .UIINEII CAREEn FORUM 7:00P.M. LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
PITTSBURGH CLUB-FALL ~K BUS $55/Roundtrip $40/0n•way ~VES: SAT. OCT. 19 6:00 PM FROM: C.C.E.&HOLY CROSS(SMC) RETURNS: FRI. OCT. 25 1 :00 PM FROM: GREYHOUND TRERMINAL IN DOWNTOWN PITT. SIGN-UPS: ---­THURS. OCT. 10 6:00PM Utile Theater in LaFortune Oueationa: Cal A.J. x 1844 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. REWARD OFFERED. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT ALICE 232-6069. 
LOST: dk. blue bKkpaclc in PJth dining hal 9/30 wound 5:50p.m. contenlll: Tl35 calculator. eyegra.. and cue, pink highlighter, band music. Cllltinet r­and mouthpiece, beginning French textbook, b. blue notebook. two computer diaca. II someone haa it~ call Sloan at 4553 01 bring to 838 P.E. No queationa asked. 
LOST: a RED wornen'a jacket in the libraly 01 in Cuahing. PLEASE!!! contact Robin at x4030 if found. 
LOST:•own Janaport ~fllon. drt nltaln Iouth Dining H... Con181na kaye,FNIICh,lclanca,811C1 IR nt.llooka.l'd lie one h8ppy puppy II you could return lham,no quaatlona -ad.call KAREN at 28._..238 any hour. 
FOUND: FOOTBALL TICKETS. PATRICK MOORE, PLEASE CALL LAURA AT 272-3764 TO CLAIM THEM. 
FOUND: Football Ticket Book, Call Mic· hele-1250 to identify. 
LOST: ALRIGHT, I'VE HAD IT. ON 9/24 MY BLUE BACK PACK WAS STOLEN FROM THE SOUTH DINING HALL. I HAVE RUN THIS AD FORA WEEK AND! HAVE HAD NO LUCK. I AM REALLY PISSED! IT WAS AN OLD THING, BUT I WANT 'IT BACK. MY ROOMMATE'S MAROON JACKET WAS IN THERE AND IF YOU DON'T GIVE ANYTHING ELSE BACK, PLEASE ATLEAST GIVE ME THE JACKET BACK. IF YOU HAVE IT, PLEASE SHOW SOME COMMON DECENCY AND CALL 3884. THANK YOU VERY, VERY MUCH! 
LOST EYEGLASSES. BROWN CASE. ON ST.MARY'S CAMPUS 10/5 IF FOUND PLEASE CALL PAT NO 1684 
LoaT: A NAVY BLUE SPOitT COAT IN FARLEY'S BASEMENT DURING SATURDAY NIGHT'S SYR.I PICKED UP A NAVY BLUE SPORT COAT THAT I BELIEVED WAS MINE BECAUSE IT HAD A ·aPECIALTY CLOTHING, PIT· TUUIIGH PENNA.' TAG INSIDE IT. I BOUGHT MINE AT THE SAME STORE. MY COAT HAS 3 GOLD BUTTONS ON THE CUFF AND IS FULLY LINED. THE ONE I HAVE IS NOT FULLY LINED. IF I HAVE YOUR COAT OR YOU HAVE MINE, PLEASE CALLIIIKE AT 111011 
LOSTPOCKET WATCH-SILVER,NO CHAIN. LOST NEAR NSH ON SEPT.26. IF FOUND CALL BOB 234-5579 
LOST RING Sterling ailver w/ turquoise stone on bird deaign If found, pi-cd t 255. lfs very amall. and has sentimental value! lost Oct. 4. 
LOST: GRAY EDDIE BAUER BACK PACK WITH BLACK STRAPS AND SEVERAL BOOKS IN NORTH DINING HALL ON 10-4. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 1495. 
LOST: HEMATITE (GREY) and GOLD BEADED BRACELET!!! I alao lost the tiger's eye bracelet' PLEASE call STEP­HANIE at 1327 if you have found either one!! I WOULD BE ETERNALLY GRATE­FUL (if that isn't good enough how does REWARD sound?). THANKS!! 
HAVE YOU EVER LOST SOMETHING VERY SPECIAL TO YOU? II not. can you imagine how you would feel if you lost a present from your boyfriend or girlfriend? PRETTY ROTTEN, HUH? Well thafs how I feel right now because I lost the GoLD BRACELET my boyfriend gave me. It is somewhere on the road between LeMana and Sarin. PLEASE HELP ME FIND IT. If you do, call Judy at 284·5063. THANK-YOU!II 
··················································· 

RENT A COLOR TV OR MIRCOWAVE 
OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR 
CITY/COLLEGATE RENTALS 
INC..2597661 
SHARE 3BR HOME WITH 2 NONSMOK­ING GR. STUDENTS. $130ft UTIL. 232­8327 
WANTED 

Need ride to o.yton any weekend. Cell Maria4174. 
RIDE NEEDED TO/FROM TERRE HAUTE FOR OCT.BREAK. WILL SHARE COSTS. MARIA-5193 
PLEASE GIVE ME A RIDE HOME TO IN­DIANAPOLIS ON FRIDAY OCT. 11. JIM 4339. 
GIRL NEEDS RIDE TO BERGEN COUNTY N.J. OR NYC AREA FOR oc­TOBER BREAK. CALL LYNN 284-5519. 
RIDE NEEDED OR OFFERED TO U OF I FOR 2 OF US. LEAVE 10/11, RETURN 10/13. CALL4083. 
WANTED: Tony Brusca, in Ft. Lauderdale, by Tawnya, I LOVE YOU! 
HELP! I NEED ONE ARIIY GA FOR IIY DAD. WILL PAY BIG •uCKS. CALL R0821CMI 
FOR SALE 

,~ ..;;·:r;;;;·:y~~··c;~~·ii~y·J;;;;;;~;;;;:·$44 
through the U.S. government? Get the facts tOday! Call 1·312-742-1142 Ext 7316 
·•····················•·· ········ 19n Olda Cut Sup Brougham: 350 V-8; pa,pb.AIC.T-Tops,Cruise,Recent Eagle Sill, 1 OOw Custom Stereo. Sharp! Robert 256-9346. 
·········································· 

1965 CHEVY 11, a daaaic, no rust, runs great, $2000, 233-7463. 
For Sale: Akai Tape Deck-$120, 2mosokl 1573 
............................................................... 
For Sale: Student F'ball Tix. Call 272­
3832. 
................................................................ 
TICKETS 

I NEED USC GA's Have caah & home GA'alortrade: Call DAVE 1712 
I NEED 4 TIX FOR ND-USC GAllE. W/TAKE2SETSOF2.CALL211&4711. 
BOSTON OOMERS LOOKING FOR USC TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY $$$. CALL HELEN 2n-4324 EVENINGS 6:00.11:00 
NEED USC GA TIXS WILL PAY WELL CALL284-5494 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE ARMY GAME. CALL SUE 284-54n. 
I NEED OAa FOR ARMY & UIC.272· 1301 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY GA'S AND 2 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT 1733/1757 
NEED 2 ARMY GA'S. CALL JIMAT 1489. 
PLEASE HELP AN UNFORTUNATE SENIOR whose family haa never seen Notre Dame!!!! Do you have 3 GAa for the USC game? Will pay $! Linda V. (219)2n-6856. 
Wi~h'i~·~;............................................. 
GAM atuiMnt 1111 f« 
usc ....... 

call Chuck at 11104. 
need 4 hxa to army call2723491 (gat) 
NEEDED-USC GA's. Will pay top $1 Call Al287-9196. 
I NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S CALL MIKE AT 1605 OR STOP BY 304 GRACE, THE DIVE!! 
HAVE $$$.Need 1 USC & 1 Navy tix.Call Paul3467. 
-I'IMII USC GA'S and STU TIX willing to be c:rMilve call 232-tlll7 
Need many USC GA tix. WiN pay big buci<a! Pleaae call289-34n. 
NEED 2 GA'S for USC GAME. CALL LAURA3839 
Need 1 USC GA for So. cal. Dad. WiU pay good$. Cal Pete at 2353. 
"NEED 4 TICKETS FOR MISSISSIPPI GAME IN A REAL BAD WAY!!! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!!!!! CALL PAUL D. AT :!642 OR3640. 
NEED PENN aTATE TIXI!I 
WiD trade 2 Navy GA's For 2 Penn State GA's If you've got P.,n s-IlK, c:MIIMry at 2082 
NEED TIX FOR MISS. GAME! WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR! REALLY!!! CALL MARY AT 1323 IF YOU'RE WILLING TO NEGOTIATE!! 
need 2-4 G.A.'s for Almy. call Paul at 3510 
HELP !!! MILLIONAIRE RECLUSE NEEDS 3 GAS AND 2 STUDENT TIX TO ARMY WILL PAY $$$ CALL BILL EVE AND MORNINGS 2886296 
HEY BOY-You look might fine with them 4 ARMY Ga's Now you know that I know that you want to sen ·em to me, ao come over here now-and I'm a give you lop dol­lar. Call 1097 and aak lor Ted. THANX 
HEY! WILL TRADE 2 ARMY, NAVY, MISSIS­SIPPI, OR LSU GAs FOR USC StuiMnt or OAa 234-7412 JEREMY OR JOHN O.K. 
Wanted: Two ticketa for the Almy game. Pteaae call Mike at 3562 and make him a happy guy. 
NEED 2 IIIISIISIPPI TIX. cMI Bob at 1385. 
........................ 
NEED TWO USC TICKETS REAL BAD! 3457 
HEAR YE! Little Siater coming up fore OLE MISS' The laaa haa ne'er aeene NOTRE DAME heere at home! Oodles of caah involved, wille take GA or STUD Tix! PLEEEEZE HELP! Calle 3457. 
Need 3 USC GAs. Wil pay any reasonable price. Call Chrit1898 
LOYAL FANS FROM IOWA NEED LOTS OF GA'S FOR USC AND LSU. EVEN AN NO GAME WOULD BE MORE EXCITING THAN THE OPPRESSED FARM ECONOMY. PLEASE CALL MATT x1076. 
NEED 2 USC GA TIX HAVE 2 STUDENT TIX FOR All OTHER GAMES TO TRADE AND$$$$ CALL RED 1596 
HAVE 2 STUD TIX FOR ALL GAMES CALL RED 1596 
MOM AND DAD FlYING OUT FROM LA FOR USC GAME. IT'S THEIR FIRST AND ONLY NO FOOTIBALL GAME! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THEM. AM WILLING TO TRADE 2 ARMY GA'S OR PAY CASH. PLEASE CALL GARY AT 1n6. THANKS! 
WANTED: (2) GA USC TIX-BILL (617)746-8700 
BOSTON DOMERS LOOKING FOR USC TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY$$$. CALL HELEN 2n-4324 EVENINGS 6:00.11:00 
FOUR ARMY GA's for aale. NO SIDE 50 YRD.LINE. BEST OFFER!! CALL 2n· 1256 
BOSTON DOMERS LOOKING FOR USC TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY$$$. CALL HELEN 2n-4324 EVENINGS 6:Q0-11:00 
FOUR ARMY GA's for aale. NO SIDE 50 YRD.LINE. BEST OFFER!! CALL 2n­1256 
I'm paying $300 to fly my little sister up from T allahaaeee, Florida to see the Almy game, but she doesn't have a ticket. Now that I've blown that much, I might as well spend some more. Sell me an Almy GA and lind out just how much more. II will be well worth your trouble, I promise. Cell 13n at a late hour. 
NEED 2 USC GA'S. CALL CHRIS AT 1489. 
PERSONALS 
The Otiginal sin is to Hmitthe Ia. 
• Richard Bach, llualona. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
............................................. 
Help us avoid !he Beantown blues. Give ua a ride to Boaton or vicinity for October break. ca11Maria4174. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST, FOOTBALL WEEKENDS; NO & SMC PARENTS. TWO NITE MINIMUM. 10 MINS. FROM CAMPUS. CALL 291-6152. 
Need 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE USC GAME, preferably in the Senior sec­tion .... WILL PAY $$$$!!!! linda V. (219)2n-6856. 
ATTN. SERIOUS RUNNERS TERRY FOX RUN AT PURDUE 10/19 ENTRY FORMS IN LAFORTUNE ?'S CALL DREW3287 
SMC-ND SUMMER TRAVEL:LONDON PROGRAM MAY 21-JUNE 20 WITH TRAVEL IN IRE, SCOT,& FRANCE; COURSES IN BIO,BUS,HIST,MUSIC,SOCI,AND THEATRE. ROME PROGRAM JUNE 15­JULY 14 WITH TRAVEL IN FRANCE,GER,SW!TZ,& !TALY; COURSES IN BUS,HIST,AND ITALIAN. MTG ON OCT 14 ] CARROLL HALL(SMC) ]7:00PM. FOR INFO CALL PROF A.A. BLACK 284-4460 OR 272­3726. 
WASHINGTON DC BUS SIGN-UPS: TUES 10/08 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE­$65 ROUND TRIP MUST BE PAID IN CASH OR NDCU CHECK WHEN YOU RESERVE A SEAT 
UMANPLUNGE U...ANPLUNGE U...ANPLUNGE Explore a new horizon ... take the Urban Plunge. A 48 hr. inner city immersion during Chrislmu break. Experience con­ditione of poveny and injustice while in­creasing your awareneaa of what ia being done to alleviate these problema. Do the PLUNGE' URBAN PLUNGE URIIAN PLUNGE U...ANPLUNGE 
Weds. October 9 is Laura Wolnsk1's birthday. Wish her a happy day cause she knows who the 'Fling Queen,' is and she is also a wonder ful girl who Notre Dame is blessed to have! 
Mr. X (a.k.a.Tom) Be warned' Your day is coming! Monica 
Gandy: So you think you can blow me off so easily. Hah! I'M also be at the D.Y.B.O. (Dance Your Buns Offl on Saturday, Oct. 12 from 9:00 until whenever. With t1ckelll only $2.00, I'll be dancing all over the La Fortune Ballroom with any girl that loot<s bener than you. Biff 
BRIDGET'S BARGAINS: Good during all open hours on specified days. MON & TUES -$.60 DRAFTS ... WED -$.75 ROOT BEER SHOTS ... THURS -$1.00 MOLSONS..FRI • $.75 WATERMELON SHOTS ... $.35 HOT MUNCHIES DAILY. 
JUNIOR NIGHT OUT!!! TUES OCT. 8th AT BEACON BOWL 
RIDE NEEDED TO CENTRAL PA FROM SOMEONE GOING EAST ON I 80 FOR OCTOBER BREAK! CALL MAURA 284­
4200 
The nomination speech 
It's a personal thing and I boldly state that my views on morality will have to wa11 'til my personal life's out of the public eye (and the limitations statute can protect my alibi) I'm devout, I'm sincere, and I'm proud to say that it's had exactly no effect on who I am 
today 
I believe lor the benefit of all mankind 
in the total separation of church and mind 
-"IT'S A PERSONAL THING" 
by STEVE TAYLOR 
............................................. CAMPY'S PIZZA NOW DELIVERING TO CAMPUS 255-0837 MON THRU THUR 
5:00 TO 10:00 FRI SAT 5:00 TO 11:00 
0 HOLY ST. JUDE, APOSTLE AND MARTYRE, GREAT IN VIRTUE AND RICH IN MIRACLES, NEAR KINSMEN OF JESUS CHRIST, FAITHFUL INTER­CESSOR OF All WHO INVOKE YOUR SPECIAL PATRONAGE IN TIME OF NEED, TO YOU I HAVE RECOURSE FROM THE DEPTH OF MY HEART AND HUMBLY BEG TO WHO GOD HAS GIVEN SUCH GREAT POWER TO COME TO MY PRESENT URGENT PETITION IN RETURN I PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR NAME KNOWN AND CAUSE YOU TO BE INVOKED. (THREE OUR FATHERS, THREE HAIL MARY'S THREE GLORIA'S). ST. JUDE, PRAY FOR US AND ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR AID. AMEN. L.S. PUBLICATION MUST BE PROMISED. THIS NOVENA HAS NEVER FAILED. SAY IT FOR 9 CON­SECUTIVE DAYS. 
MY BELOIT BELOVED, Kathy,Kathy where shall we roam? Under the moon­light of the Golden Dome. We'll go arm-in­arm all the way, 'Cause IOday's your glorious 20th birthday. I hope when you read this you'll be delighted, F01 these wriHen emotions make me excited. I won't give you a rough time, I won't give you guff, Because for me. once is enough. I'll be there if you want to lake a risk, 'Cause I still have access to the bedtime disk. You will like it aa I will, When I -enade you with Alphaville. There would be no need lor me to flirt, II you would just waah my ROTC shirt. I will always envision you as my queen, I AM YOUR MAN, THE KIL­LER KUEHN. Sensually yours, Robert 
CHICAGO...CHICAGO ... CHICAGO Who wants to go for free? Hotel/ Car I Dinners /Friends 
TRICIA THANKS FOR THE HAIRCUT ANDAGREATTIME. OK 
................................................................ 
WANTED: SYR dale. Applicants muat be male, have a good sense of humor, and love to dance. 21 and over only need apply. For a unique social adventure, call laura at 2785. 
PETE GEORGES HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Cathy Prein, fastest woman on crutches in the Midwest. Go, Cathy, go! 
Larry, laking is in this season-enjoy it while you can.Have a great birthday and year! from a mumbling idiot from second floor. As an afterthought, don't you think it is about time you get your aaa into gear? Nah, I didn't think so. 
.................................... 
4 DAYS 'TIL HONEYMOONERS TIME! 
3 DAYS 'TIL HONEYMOONERS TIME! 

OUT TO LUNCH 11:30-1:30 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS MEXICAN FOOD PROCEEDS TO EARTHQUAKE VIC. 
Tllla 

The Otiginalsin is to limit the Is. 
o.m·t. 

• Richard Bach, INuiSiona. 
PHILLY PH ILLY PH ILLY PH ILLY Spolll are still available 101 October break BUS; one -yand roundtrip. leaves Oct 18 and returns Oct 25. Price is sn. Call Dave Graham 3270. 
YOU'VE GOT STYLE.. .. THAT'S WHAT ALL THE GIRLS SAY. OBVIOUIL.Y. THANKS FOR A GREAT TIME! SOMEONE WHO DOESN'T LIKE TO SWEAT EITHER. 
NEED 2 ARMY G.A. 'S. IF YOU CAN HELP, CALL 3433 AND ASK FOR MELISSA. 
ti,.Y~;II.i.~;;d.II:E:~·· 
Thank you ma'ama lor a great fling 1n the Windy City. You gala really are Infor­mal Yahweaaes. Some day we'l have to relive our theme: Drink, drink, drink, drink ... ahop, ahop, ahop. ahop ... 
eat, •t.eat, eat. 

rna (not an M.E.) 
Yes. I adm11 it, I want to go to New Jersey lor October break. And yes, I adm•t it I want to be here lor the Army and USC games. Finally, I have to admit that! need a ride to the Garden State. WiM pay the usual. Please caM 3490 if you can offer me a ride. 
Sorry we igNORKed you this weekend. We'll catch a buzz with you soon. Keep in touch. love, the P.C.'a. P.S. Keg on Thursday? 
KEVIN "MR. HAPPY" GARDEN Will celebrate hia 21 BIRTHDAY on OCT. 9. He will atart celebrating ton1ght at Bridgeta' , Chipa' and the Commons'. Let'amake him happy' 
Theology Forum .......,.: Plan to at­~-the prMantatlon by Mary Doyle -Lucy O'llhe...,.-yon w~ clay, October II at 10:00 P.ll. 341 O'lhaugh.-y. Support your tallow atuclanta. 
Dear you (not me), Thankt for the note. You're right, the theme does deserve repeating! me(notyou) 
p.s. just seeing if you read these. 
TO THE INNOCENT PARTY OF 122 
LYONS 

HAPPY 18TH CATH! JUST A LITTLE ADVICE TO GET YOU OVER 'TURF BURN': 'GO WITH THE FLOW,' 'LEARN FROM IT!' AND 'PARTY TILL 
DROP .... AGAINII' 
LOVE FRAN, PATTY, & 1ST FLOOR 
REGINA SOUTH-LADY IN RED, Even though you can't remember, the SYR waa GREAT' Who aaid you can't dance? lan't it amazing how a few ecrewdrivera can looeen a person up! Hey, everything's Kool now. II happens to the beat of us. Remember, M meet1ng Thursday at 8:30' ROB 
You walled 30 years ... YOU WANT IT NOW. The HONEYMOONERS are coming!!! 
ISO STUDY BREAK TONIGHT 10:30 
ISO LOUNGE 

TO MY 3 ROOMIES AS WELL AS THE SCOUND QUEEN ROOMIES: THANKS SO MUCH FOR MAKING MY BIRTHDAY THE BEST EVER' I MUST SAY THE NIGHT PERKED UP AROUND 9:00 AND THE NIGHT WAS STILL YOUNG! THANKS FOR EVERTHING! LOVE, 361 UNTIL21 
Watch out!! The 'FLING QUEEN' is on 
roll. Laat weekend Dillion, next 
Alumni. What next? 

Of course the P .C.'s are into physical ness! Witness the once in our event: A run from leMans to the i 31, Saturday 1OAM. Beverage cigarene slops provided along the way. DON'T IIISIIT!I!II 
The Observer 

New York Yankee's pitcher Phil Niekro is shown hurling his way to his jOOth victory Sunday 011er the Toronto Bluejays. The Blue jays face Kansas City tonight in post-season action. 
.----·THE COLLEGE OF SCIE.NCE-----. DISTINGUISHED SCHOLAR LECTURE SERIES 
Presents 


(219) 239-5957 
Tuesday, October 8, 1985 -page 9 

Blue Jays face Kansas City tonight as major league playoffs begin 
AS80Ciated Press 
TORONTO -The Toronto Blue Jays, favored to bring the first World Series to Canada, can take their first step in that direction tonight when they meet the Kansas City Royals in the first game of the American League playoffs. 
"I'm sure everyone will be a little jittery," said Dave Stieb, who will start the best-of-seven opener for the Blue jays. "I'm going to try not to overthrow. But I'm sure I'll do that in the first inning." 
Toronto, an expansion team 
formed nine seasons ago, is making 
its first-ever appearance in the 
postseason. Despite winning the 
strong AL east with 99 victories, the 
Blue Jays are not one of the more 
well-known teams in baseball. 
"You ask anyone who the center fielder for the Blue Jays is and they don't know. They might say Willie Mays," said Toronto center fielder Uoyd Moseby, who hit 18 homers, stole 3 7 bases and is strong defensively. 
"I've played here six years and 
that's always been the way it is, that no one knows us," he said. "Now, it'll all turnaround. I'm not sure I really want that." 
The 8:35 p.m. EDT game will also showcase the best platoon in the game -Rance Mulliniks and Garth Iorg at third base for the Blue Jays. 
The unheralded pair combined for 17 homers and 93 RBI, with lefty Mulliniks hitting .295 and lorg bat­ting.314. 
"We don't have anyone of the stature of Dave Winfield," Mulliniks said. "What we have is a lot of all­around people who can play the game."· 
Kansas City Manager Dick Howser said he's well aware ofhow good the Blue}ays are. 
"They're a little late getting here," he said with a smile. "I picked 'em three or four years ago. We knew this was coming." 
Howser and his Royals also both have something to show. Howser has an 0-9 record in postseason games, while Kansas City is making its sixth appearance in the playoffs ­but has reached the World Series only once. 
"I think this series is pretty even," 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 8 
Prospective SMC basketball players will 
begin practice tomorrow from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Anyone who is in­terested should contact the Angela Athletic Facility for information about physicals. -The Observer 
Trivia night returns to "SpeakingofSports" tonight at I 0 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. Listeners may join cohosts Chuck Freeby and Kevin Herbert for their chance to win by calling 239-6400.-The Observer 
The ND golf team is in second place after 36 of 54 holes at the Midwestern Collegiate Golf Championships at the Golf Club of Indianapolis. The Irish, with a score of 636, trail Oral Roberts' 593. Notre Dame's John O'Donovan and Steve Fuhrer are tied for seventh place with 156 each. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club raised its 
record to 3-5 last Sunday with a 2-0 victor'Y over Nazareth College. Susan Haling and Kerry HaverKamp scored the goals for the Irish. ­
The Observer 
A horseback riding trip is being planned by NVA for Sunday, Oct. 13, at the Happy Trails riding stables. Advance registration and payment of a $7 fee for one hour of riding are re­quired by tomorrow. For more information, call 239-6100. -The Observer 
The ND Rugby Club raised its record to 5-I with its fifth straight win last Saturday, beating Fort Wayne, 10-4. The Irish will play host to the University of Chicago on Saturday at I p.m. on Stepan Field. -The Observer 
The ND junior class softball festival has been res­·cheduled for Friday at 4 p.m. on White Field. All juniors are invited to attend and cheer on their classmates. The food should be pretty good, too. -The Observer 
NVA co-ree basketball rosters of five men and five women are due tomorrow at the NVA office in the ACC. Call 239­61 00 for more information. -The Observer 
NVA racqetball tournament entries are due 
tomorrow at the NVA office in the ACC. The best-of-three singles tourney includes three divisions: men's, women's and grad-faculty. Call239-6100 for more information.-The Observer 
NVA volleyball tournament entries are due 
tomorrow at the NVA office in the ACC. Two tournaments -one for co-ree teams of three men and three women, and one for graduate student and faculty -are planned. Call 239-6100 for more informa­tion. -The Observer 
Handball and badminton tournaments have 
been planned by NVA. The deadline for entries is tomorrow at the 
NVA office in the ACC. Call 239-6100 for more information. -The 
Observer 
Howser said, although the od­
dsmakers have rated the Blue jays as 
slight favorites. 
The Royals won the season series 
from Toronto seven games to five. A 
Kansas City victory in the playoffs 
would mark just the second time 
since 1974 that the AL west team has 
won, with Kansas City having won in 
1980. 
Both teams like the best-of-seven 
format, expanded from the previous 
best-of-five. 
"I think it's a better test of 
baseball," Howser said. "I wish it was 
even longer." 
"It used to be that if you lost two 
of the first three, yo_u were in real 
trouble," Mulliniks said. "Now, if 
that happens, you're still not in good 
shape but you have time to come 
back.'' 
Both teams rely on their pitching, 
and that appears to be the key area to 
watch. Toronto led the league in 
earned run average and Kansas City 
was second. 
Stieb's 2.48 ERA was best in the 
AL, although he finished with a 14­
13 record. Leibrandt, at 17-9, was 
second in the league with a 2.69 
ERA. 
Tisdale stays away from Pacer camp 
AS80Ciated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. -Although he is 
missing preseason practices and ex­
hibition games with the Indiana 
Pacers, former University of Ok­
lahoma basketball star Wayman 
Tisdale thinks he is in basketball 
shape. 
Tisdale, picked second in last 
year's National Basketball Associa­
tion college draft, has not signed a 
contract with the team although the 
two sides are reported close on an 
agreement. He watched from the 
stands and from a spot behind the 
Pacers bench Sunday night as the 
Pacers defeated the San Francisco 
Kings II0-94 in an exhibition game 
in Norman. 
"It's just a different type ofshape .. 
getting with the team, learning 
their system and style of play," 
Tisdale said after the game. "I think 
it'll take me about a week to get ad­
justed." 
Indiana made Tisdale the second 
pick overall in last spring's NBA draft 
behind Georgetown's Patrick 
Ewing, chosen by the New York 
Knicks. 
Tisdale said the layout has been tough. "It's just one of those things where we have to get business straight first." 
His brother, Weldon, is handling the contract talks as Tisdale's agent. After the game. Weldon Tisdale met with Pacers co-owner Herb Simon and Ray Compton, the team's vice­president ofoperations. 
"He knows what he's looking for in the wording of the contract and the business part of it," Tisdale, a three-time All-American, said of his brother. "I'm leaving it up to him. That's why I hired him." 
Tisdale said he was ready to get with the team. "That's what I want to do. Hopefully, they're going to ac­complish something." 
Tisdale said the apparent progress made Sunday "is mainly because the owners are ready to get something done. Everybody's ready to get this thing over with. One night I'm think­ing I'm going to get signed and the next day I'm not even close." 
He said he doesn't think the negotiations will last into the season. "I think it will be this week -hope­fully," Tisdale said. 

-
-~-·-----~-~-~---~--..__________--..._________________________,1 
The Observer Tuesday, October 8, 1985 -page 10 

Record drops to 2-7 
SMC soccer wins one, loses one 
ByANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's varsity soccer team beat the Wheaton College women's soccer club 5-2 Saturday at Angela Field, but lost to the Univer­sity of Wisconsin-Milwaukee women's varsity soccer team Sunday at Milwaukee by a score of6-2. 
The Belles, whose record now stands at 2-7, played an aggressive game against Wheaton, particularly in the first half, when the team scored four of its five goals. 
Head Coach John Akers said he was quite satisfied with the Belles' performance. 
"It was a pleasant surprise to find us put in four goals in the first half," he said. "It's been awhile in having that happen for us. I was pleased, and I think the whole team was pleased with the way we played." 
Beth Hallinan, a sophomore, started the action at the goal after about seven minutes ofplay, scoring for the Belles off an assist by junior Mary Anne Perri. Sophomore Karen Chandler made it 2-0 for the team minutes later. Chandler was as­sisted by senior Katy Boldt in the play. 
Wheaton's goalie gave the Belles a third Scoring opportunity when, after making a save, she punted the ball to the Belles' Ellen Boyle, a 
Th~ Observer/Paul Pahoresky 
freshman, who kicked it in for a goal. 
Sophomore Karen Chandler ( 6) ofthe Saint Mary's soccer team Junior Ann Nora Ehret put the tries to get control ofthe ball in action earlier this year. Chandler Belles ahead 4-0 toward the end of scored a goal Saturday as the Belles beat Wheaton College 5-2. the first half, scoring on a penalty Andrea Lafreniere details the action at right. kick. 
In one way, Faust is no different than previous Notre Dame coaches 

A.88oclated Press 
INDIANAPOUS -Gerry Faust, like Dan Devine before him, was greeted with rumbles of dissatisfaction al­most as soon as he arrived under Notre Dame's famed Golden Dome. 
As successor to a line of coaching legends from Knute Rockne to Ara Parseghian, Faust wears the fragile mantle that goes with college foot­ball's most visible and pressure­packedjob. 
The quiet and outwardly colorless Devine, who labored earlier in the awesome shadow ofVince LombariJi as coach of the Green Bay Packers, never won the affection of Notre Dame's rabid fans. But he lasted six years because he won 53 games and a national championship. 
Faust, whose outgoing personality was a big factor in his selection as Devine's replacement four years ago, has always been well-liked, but he hasn't be~n a big winner. And at Notre Dame, that is unforgivable. 
The Irish, 25-20-l in Faust's frrst four seasons, are I-3 this year, with losses on the road at Michigan, Purdue and Air Force and a victory at home against Michigan State. Each loss has brought more criticism and has increased the rumors that Faust is on his way out. 
The University, however, states firmly it will honor the rest of his contract. 
"We've said before the season we wouldn't comment on it, and we still won't," Notre Dame Athletic Direc­tor Gene Corrigan said yesterday, referring to Faust's status. "Gerry's our football coach, and that's it. 
"Obviously, it does bother us," Corrigan said of the rumors and criticism. "But there's no sense in commenting on it. There's nothing I can say." 
What will happen when the season ends is another matter, and Corrigan said the situation "surely" will be evaluated at that time. 
Faust was a successful high school coach whose dynasty at Cincinnati Moeller produced a 174-17-2 record in 18 years. The last time Notre Dame took its coach from the 
high school ranks was in 1954, when 
the Irish went with Terry Brennan. 
Brennan had records of 9-1 and 8-2 
in his first two seasons but dipped to 
2-8 in 1956 and began feeling the 
heat. 

He lasted two more years before 
he was replaced. His 32-18 record 
would be more than respectable at 
most colleges. 

Faust came in 1981 after Notre Dame went 9-2-1 in Devine's final season. He won his first game but lost four of the next six and finished with a 5-6 record, Notre Dame's first losing season since 1963. 
"I don't care where you are, you're going to be criticized," Par­seghian said yesterday in defense of Faust. "I was criticized when I was winning -I didn't win big enough, I didn't look good winning. It's the nature ofcoaching. 
''I'm sure Gerry is going through a difficult situation because he's not winning. It's no different if it's Gerry Faust or whoever," Parseghian said. "You go around the country, any town, any high school, any college town, where they're not having success, you're going to find the football coach being criticized. This game, it's amazing to me how many people know so much about foot­ball, at least purport to know. And they express it." 
Will Faust be back next year? 

"All I can tell you is the general rumors before the season. The suggestions were that he has to take Notre Dame to a major bowl game for (a contract) renewal. I can't speak for the administration," said Parseghian. "Whether the rumors have any validity, I'm not qualified to express." 
Parseghian, who had a 95-17-4 record in 11 years as Irish coach, said his original contract was for three years. 
"At the end of the frrst year, we were 9-1, losing the last game in the last minute and a half. The University offered me a five-year contract. I served that contract, and at the end, I never asked for another contract. I coached the last five years without a contract. I knew if I couldn't do the job, I didn't want to be around." 
Faust, who left on a recruiting trip yesterday and was unavailable for comment, said in an interview when similar rumors began circulating a year ago, "If we win next year (1985), I'd say yes, I'd stay; yes, Notre Dame would keep me. We can't be 6-5. We've got to be 8-3 or 9-2. But I understand that. I don't know if I'd want to stay if we didn't have a good year." 
Last week, after a 35-17 loss at Purdue -a game in which the Irish appeared totally disorganized-Faust said, "I haven't given up the ship on the players or the staff. We've been in a similar situation before and you have to rise above it. We're not panicking at this point." 
On Saturday, after a 21-15 loss to Air Force, Faust heatedly denied a newspaper story that he had already resigned. 
"There is absolutely no truth to the story," he said. "I am still the football coach at Notre Dame. We'll be ready to play against Army (on Oct. 19, after a week off)." · 
John Heisler, Notre Dame's as­sociate sports information director, contrasted Faust's shaky status in his fifth season with the tenures ofboth Parseghian and Devine. 
"Both had taken their teams to major bowl games and won national championships within their first five years. In those instances, there was no question those coaches would be asked to stay," Heisler said. "If those kinds ofthings aren't happening, and we haven't been to a major bowl game in five years, then the situation isn't so obvious. 
"If you're having a great season, there's no question about it. But this season, that may not be true," he said. 
Freshman Theresa Harrington scored the Belles' fifth and final goal ofthe game minutes into the second halfofthe game. 
Wheaton scored two goals toward the middle of the second half, but were not able to overcome the Belles. 
Saint Mary's did not fare as well Sunday in their game against the Uni­versity of Wisconsin, whose varsity team includes scholarship players. 
Seniors Katy Boldt and Sue Schier! scored two goals for the Belles, but their efforts were not enough to stop 


• 
• : • 
~ 
~ 
~ 
s::: 
0 
.s. 
I.) 
-
NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! 
MEXICAN KITCHEN 
Reg.  Macho  
Taco  1.09  1.69  
Burritos  
Bean  L 79  2.49  
Meat  2.39  3.29  
Combo  2.09  2.79  
Cheese  1.89  2.59  

Make any bwrito wet for 50 cents!! 
P.S. Don't order macho unless you're ready for a pound of goc:x:Jies! 
Nachos lr Chee•e 1.19 Have some sauce for no extra charge to spice them up that much more. 
Macho Nacho·• 2.19 Retried beans, chips. cheese, peppers, mild meat sauce, spicy green sauce! 
Tostada Grande 3.29 (In a shell · wonderful) R'!l. Planer Mexican Salad 1.29 2.89 Tostada Combo 1.59 2.09 Chile Ole' .99 2.39 Ta'co Sandwich 1.49 2.59 Chicken Sandwich 1.74 2.84 
Platter · Assortment of sauces & side orders. Want it a special way· just order it! 
Enchilada'• (Platter of 2) Meat • lotza sauce & cheese 2.00 Chicken 2.50 
DINNERS 
#1 Enchilada· 1 chicken, 1 beef 
*2 Macho Taco 
#3 Meat Burrito 
#4 Cheese Burrito & Taco 
Complete with Mexican salad, refrled beans, chill & cheese: guacamole, sour cream & a pile of chips. 
A dinner wtth enough left over for tomorrow's LUNCH! 
4.79 
Plus tax on prices · $5.00 miniraum order 

the host team, which, according to Akers, is the strongest team the Belles have faced this year. 
The Belles next game is Saturday at 1 p.m. against Calvin College, located in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Akers was hesitant to offer any predictions about the outcome of the game. 
"It's really difficult to say how the game will go," he said. "We played Calvin last spring at a Notre Dame tournament, and we lost to them in a close match. We'll be looking to turn that around this year," he said. 
AMERICAN KITCHEN 
Hamburger• ~ 4 to a pound CUSTOM GRillED NOT STOCK Pfi..ED 
Naugleburger 1.99 2 Patties with the works double cheese 
Deluxe Hamburger 
1.39 2 Patties with lettuce, tomato, mayo dressing 
Hamburger 1.19 2 Patties with pickle, ketchup, mustard, onion 
add cheese .20 
DESSERTS 

Hot Fudge • Hot Caramel • Strawberry • Orange Blueberry • Chocolate • Cherry • Vantllll • Root Beer Shake• 1.09 Sundaa 1.49 Fudge Brownie .69 Putry .69 Fudge Brownie Sundae 1.69 
DRINK UP! 

Cold Beverage• 12 oz.-.64 20 oz.; .79 32 oz.-.94 
Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Root Beer, Mt. Dew Dr. Pepper. Welches, Sunkisi, LA!rnonade Ice Tea, Milk, Orange Juice 
Hot Beverages· .47 
Coffee, Hot Chocolate, Hot Tea 
SIDE ORDERS 

French Friel .99 Refrled Beans .99 with chill sauce .99 
Nacho Chip• .39 Guacamole Fresh, Fresh, Fresh .89 Sour Cream .25 Extra cheese for anything .50 
~~~C]L~-------------------------------------------T-u.e.sd•a•y•'-o.c.to_b_e_r_s_,_1_9_s_s_-~p-ag_e
__l_l 

Bloom County 
HVKKY.. ~T 
JH/5 /JtJWN: 
... &ei'EI?flt. ''WOMIIN 5aK5
I/Rr£!KY 
MAT€.

I/8(}(JT 7HIN&S." QVICK.'' 
0 \ 
() 0 
Zeto 
SIR, IS THe MDSqUl MANS LDNEUNES'S IN THE UNIVERSe? 
IJNYMJPY. 
711t.t.1 WH0'5 
SHOKT~ 

/HAT.?
fliT.'... 

\ 
IS IT GOr:>'s INTRICATE A..AN OMNIPRESENT 
IN EVEN THE MOST 
MINOTF OF HIS CREATURES? 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS --~~-T~ 1 Monastery men 5 VIctory token 10 Abominable Snowman 14 Between marquis and viscount 15 Hotdrlnk 16 River to the Caspian 17 Regarding 18 Ofan arm bone 19 Phone 20 California 23 Swiss mountains 24 Cereal grain 25 Former Ger. chancellor 28 Cal. city 33 Topper 34 Soli drinks 36 Peruvian mountains 37 Old times 38 Furious 
40 Words of ©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
10/8/85
All Rights Reserved
remonstrance 41 Ecole Monday's Solution 
attendant 5 Rodin or Arp 44 Maintain 6 Common 46 Pod seed maladies 47 Lineage 7 Teenage 
49 Guard complaint 
51 Free from 8 Bank business taboo, In 9 Rector Tahiti 10 Max. peninsula 
52 Aleutian Isle 11 Part of OED 53 Nevada 12 Poe specialty 60 The Beaver 13 Not well State: abbr. 21 Automotive 
61 Din pioneer 62 TV horse 22 Solong 63-avis 25 Radar signal 
64 Islamic devil 26 Moon valley 65 Mild oath 27 Totaled 66 Cupid 28 Fur 67 Vaticinators 29 Global area 
10/8/85

68 Bloody 30 Modify 31 Not as old 45 Baseball team 55 Round part 
DOWN 32 Analyze ore 48 Actress Ella 56 Foul 1 Noteworthy act 35 Fresh-water 50 Aromatic seed 57 Jasoh's ship 2 Foolhardy fish 52 Race of Norse 58 Lacerate 3 Comic Johnson 39 Upset gods 59 Whirlpool 4 Adman's 42 Cruet contents 53 Mlnecar 60 " ... man-
Invention 43 Selves 54 Pedestal figure mouse?" 

Berke Breathed 
The Far Side Gary Larson 
0
me 
Jf!NITOR. 

Kevin Walsh 
L08K, THE' MOSQUITO 
15 A LITTLE NASTY BIG­
NOSED INSECT THAT 
SUO<S SLDOD AND 
LIVES /N SLIME:! 

© 1985 Un1versal Press Syndicate 
"Quick, Abdul! Desert! ... One 's' or two?" 
Campus 

•12:00 
P.M. -Seminar, "Politics and Democratization: Queries and Concerns, Professor Manuel Antonio Garreton, FLASCO (Chile), Decio 131, Sponsored by The Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies 

•3:30 
P.M. · 5:00P.M.-Support Group, Grief and Loss Group, Linda Monroe, M.A.. Group Leader, Room 300, Counseling and Psyc· 

•6:30 
P.M. · Meeting, Lewis Party Room, Sponsored by Notre Dame Hawaii Club 

•7:00 
P.M.· General Meeting, New Orleans Room, LaFortune Student Center , Sponsored by French Club 

•7:00 
P.M. · Forum, Third Annual Business Careers Forum, Speakers from various com· panics, Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Management Club, All majors and years welcome 


hological  Services  Center,  Sponsored  by  
Counseling  and  Psychological  Services  
Center  

•7:30 
P.M.-Tuesday Night FUm Series, "Big Deal on Madonna Street", Annenberg Auditorium 

•8:00 
P.M. · Black Studies Colloquium, "South Africa: What's It All About?", Professor Peter Walshe, University of Notre Dame, Library Lounge 

•8:00 
P.M. · Meeting, Center for Social Con· cerns, Sponsored by RASTA, New members welcome 

•10:30 
P.M.· Study Break, International Stu· dents Lounge, Sponsored by Notre Dame/St. Mary's International Student Organization, 50 cents (proceeds go to our "adopted kids") 



Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Dublin Broil Chicken Teriyaki Baked Sole with Savory Rice Western Rice 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 6:30P.M. 16 MASH 22 Three's Company 7:00P.M. 16 1985 League Championship Series 1 American League (East) 
22  Hometown  
28  Who's the Boss?  
7:30P.M.  28  Growing Pains  
8:00P.M.  22  CBS  Tuesday  Night  Movie:  
"Love, Mary"  
28  Moonlighting  
!O:OOP.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 War: "Anybody's Son Will Do" 


34 NOVA: "The National Science 
Test II" 8:30P.M. 46 Blackwood Brothers 9:00P.M. 28 Our Family Honor 
Saint Mary's Veal Scallopini Spaghetti with Meat/Marinara Sauce Rice con Queso Beef Chimichanges 
34 A Walk Through The 20th Cen· tury: "1.1. Rabi: Man of the Cen· tury 
46 Lesea Alive 
46  Dwight Thompson  
!0:30P.M.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Simon  &  Simon/CBS  late  
Movie: "Seed ofInnocence"  
28  ABC News Nightline  
ll:OOP.M.  28  Eye on Hollywood  
34  Film Dujour: "The North Star"  
46  Praise the Lord  


-~----------------­

Tuesday, October 8, 1985 -page 12 
Something still wrong as mistakes continue for Irish 

Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 
It's still wrong! 
No need to mix with the pleasantries of"Hello again, everybody!" 
because it's still wrong. 
Unfortunately, things in the Notre Dame football program haven't 
changed much since the first game of the season. Notre Dame was 
making silly mistakes then, and it's still making them now. It was 
wrong then. It's still wrong! 
The list ofexamples is scary. 
•Example No. I -Five-yard penalties in crucial situations. 
In the Michigan game, Notre Dame's first drive was stalled be­cause of an illegal procedure penalty on third-and-five at the Wol­verine nine, and the Irish settled for a field goal. It was wrong. 
In the Air Force game, the first Irish possession put the ball on the Falcon five, first-and-1 0. Notre Dame promptly was whistled for il­legal procedure, and the Irish settled for a field goal. It's still wrong. 
•Example No. 2-Play calling. Keith Jackson said it defied his logic. Frank Broyles concurred_ The evidence certainly supports their argument. 
In the Michigan game, Notre Dame had a third-and-10 at the Wol­verine 14 in the first quarter. The Irish ran Allen Pinkett off right tackle for a loss oftwo. It was wrong. 
In the Air Force game, Notre Dame had a third-and-10 at the Fal­con 14 in the second quarter. The Irish wouldn't. they couldn't. they did it again. They ran Pinkett off right tackle for a loss ofone. Same play, same result. It's still wrong. 
•Example No. 3 -Inability to convert opportunities. 
Against Michigan, Notre Dame moved the ball inside the Wol­
verine 30 five times without scoring a touchdown. The Irish kicked 
four field goals and came away empty once. It was wrong. 
Against Air Force, the Irish moved the ball inside the Falcon 30 six 
times. Notre Dame scored one touchdown, kicked three field goals, 
and came away without scoring twice. 
That means in 11 possessions inside the opponent's 30, the Irish scored one touchdown and didn't even put points on the board three times. It's little wonder Notre Dame is 6-12-1 under Gerry Faust in games decided by six points or less. It's little wonder be­cause it's still wrong. 
•Example No. 4 -Defense. 
It's wrong to think the Irish defense did a great job against the 
wishbone. OK, to their credit, the defense only gave up 13 points to 
one of the highest scoring offenses in the country. For that they 
deserve congratulations, and I certainly am happy to offer them. 
On the other hand, last year the defense gave up an average of 4.9 
yards a play to Air Force for a total of 398 yards. It was wrong. 
This year, the defense gave up an average of 5.9 yards a play to the 
Falcon attack for a total of 412 yards. Hardly an improvement. It's 
still wrong. 
The greatest frustration of all is none of these facts and figures would have really mattered ifit weren't for. . . 
•Example No. 5 -Special teams play. 
In the Michigan game, Notre Dame fumbled the opening kickoffof the second half, and Michigan took advantage of the mistake by scoring a touchdown. Momentum switched, and the Wolverines went on to win. It was wrong. 
In the Air Force game, someone missed a blocking assignment on a John Carney field goal attempt. Air Force blocked the kick and returned it 77 yards for a touchdown. Momentum switched, and the Falcons went on to win. It's still wrong. 
Hopefully, the point is obvious by now. As a football team, Notre Dame has appeared to make absolutely no improvement since the first game ofthe season. The Irish still are making the same bad plays and the same mental errors they did at the beginning of the year. That's a sad commentary on the football situation right now at Notre Dame, and I'm sure it's just as frustrating for the players and coaches as it is for you and me. 
Still, there's not much you and I can do about it. The responsibility for improvement starts at the top with Gerry Faust and runs all the way down to the last man on the roster. Fortunately, the Irish have two weeks to work on the situation before they must face an un­defeated Army team. Another game with the same problems would just be inexcusable. 
Ifit's still wrong then, drastic measures may be necessary. 
Pick of the Week . . One team that could do no wrong over the weekend was the Notre Dame volleyball team, as it swept three consecutive matches on the road. Now, Notre Dame gets a chance to end a string of 12 consecutive road matches with a pair of matches at the ACC this weeRend. 
On Friday night, Notre Dame faces a steadily improving Butler squad in a contest beginning at 7:30. Notre Dame is 2-0 in the North Star Conference and would like to continue its winning ways against the Bulldogs. 
The Irish return to the court Saturday night to face Illinois State starting at 7:00. The Redbirds were a nationally-ranked team last season, and the Irish are striving for that goal. They could use your support this weekend. 
junior Irish outfielderjohn Loughran swings at a pitch in action against Bethel earlier this season. Notre Dame won one game over Illinois State, but lost to Bradley and St. Xavier in games over the weekend at Bradley. Nevertheless, Irish head coach 
"The' Obscrver"/Hann~ 'Ha~k~-~ 
Larry Gallo says that be is happy with the improve­ment shown by his squad during the fall season. Bill Irvin provides details of the baseball action below. 
Baseball team _wins once over ISU; loses two other weekend games 
By BILL IRVIN 
Sports Writer 

"Taking the good with the bad" was the theme for the Notre Dame baseball team this weekend. In ac­tion at Bradley University, the Irish scored a thrilling, come-from be­hind, 4-1 victory over Illinois State, dropped a 4-1 decision to Bradley, and suffered a 10-2 blowout at the hands ofSt. Xavier. 
The Irish started the action in fine fashion as they battled back to beat ISU in Saturday's opener. The Red­birds tallied the game's initial run in their half of the sixth inning on an Irish error and a pair of singles. Notre Dame countered in its seventh with Scott Rogers' one-out triple and steal ofhome. 
The game then became a score­less duel until the Notre Dame eleventh, which Rich Vanthournout opened with a single. Tim Hutson sacrificed him to second, and Tom Guilfoile followed with a single. Rogers launched another extra-base hit, a double, and, after Pat O'Brien struck out, Garry Sasse also clouted a two-bagger. In the inning, three runs scored, and Brad Cross came on to record the final three outs ofa stellar one-hit, 5 1/3 inning relief perfor­mance. Notre Dame took the game, 4-I. 
The Irish also hung tough in the second contest on Saturday, but ran into tough pitching in dropping a decision to Bradley. The host team plated a pair of runs in the first in­ning on a leadoff walk and a home run. That was all Bradley would need in the game, although they scored two insurance runs in the sixth. Pitcher Eric Smithberg made the four runs stand up, as Bradley won it, 4-0. 
Not much need be said about Sun­
day's game, in which St. Xavier capi· 
talized on poor Notre Dame 
defensive play. St. Xavier pushed 
across five first-inning runs to sew it 
up quickly. A leadoff hit-batsman 
followed by a home run sent the 
Irish reeling. After a strikeout, the 
Irish committed a pair of errors. A 
basehit and another error allowed 
three more runs to score, and Notre 
Dame, which never recovered, fell 
10-2. 
Irish Head Coach Larry Gallo was 
pleased with Saturday's effort. 
"We played well against ISU," he 
said. "Kevin Chenail pitched well, 
Brad Cross threw 5 1/3 innings of 
one-hit ball. Tom Guilefoil got the 
game-winning hit, and Sasse and 
Rogers produced with key doubles. 
"In the game against Bradley we 
also played well. We just ran into ex­. tremely good pitching from Eric Smithberg. We had opportunities to tie and win, but Smithberg was 
great." 
While lamenting the general per­formance on Sunday. Gallo praised his "rookie" pitching. 
"It was an uphill battle," he said. "We weren't ready to play Sunday. In the first inning it took us six outs to get three. Freshman pitcher Mike Passilla pitched well under alot of adversity." 
Gallo expressed guarded op­timism for the spring. 
"We had tremendous improve­ment this weekend in outfield play," he said. "For the most part, the pitch­ing was good. The hitting Sunday was not good at all. Craig Pavlina caught well, and Gary Sasse did a fine job. Scott Rogers had a fine weekend also. He improves every week. 
"We need alot of improvement, a lot ofwork. Everyone has had a good look this fall, and all players have had the opportunity to improve them· selves either in practice or in a game. These players definitely can play. They need to work hard in the of· fseason, and go out and play hard in the spring." 
SMC announces Kuzmitz will be swimming coach 
Nancy )o Kuzmitz was appointed varsity swim coach at Saint Mary's today by Jo-Ann Nester, director of athletics and recreation. 
Kuzmitz has 22 years of competitive swimming experience with the Michiana Marlins and the South Bend YMCA as qualifications. A member oftwo state championship teams at South Bend John Adams High School, she swam competitively at Indiana State University for two years. She also has taught and coached for five years with the South Bend Recreation Department. 
"NancyJo brings a very solid competitive background to the posi­tion here at Saint Mary's," said Nester. "We are pleased to have her expertise and enthusiasm for our program." , 




