-
Record reviews -pages 8-9 

VOL XIX, NO. 84 thl' imll'pnull'nt ~llllll'nt nn.. ~papl"r "lT\ ing notn danll' ami ~aint n-r.&n ·.., THURSDAY,JANUARY 31, 1985 

1 1 
Unlike all previous senate pened last year a lot," he said.
meetings, yesterday's session was 
"We've had no problem with that." 
dosed to the public. Several 
New York dty, McNeil is currently leading his ou·n
jazz recording artist and trumpeterjohn McNetl
senators were unable to explain the This year, however, with four pos­
performed last night at Washington Hall. Based in jazz quartet. 
reason for the secrecy, but Bertino sible tickets for student body presi­said, ''I'm trying to protect the mem­dent, "In Joni Neal's (director of 
bers of the senate." Student Activities) words, the un­
dercurrents have been stronger than Apparently some potential candi­
in the past," said Sienkiewicz. Neal 

Sophomore Literary Festival slates 
dates for student offices had already 
was present at yesterday's meeting.begun to collect endorsements for 
the upcoming elections, and Bertino The vote on whether to change 

John Irving, eight other authors
called the meeting to clarify en­the rule, and thus officially allow the dorsement rules that Sienkiewicz lenient endorsement policy to con­said "have always been a little tinue, stood even at 5-5, with 4 By CINDY RAUCKHORST ble candidates to invite to the fes­Calisher, has published sixteen fuzzy." abstentions. A two-thirds majority is StaffReporter tival. books including The New Yorkers 
needed to change election rules. "We wrote to over fifty authors and The Collected Stories of Hor­"We wanted to nip the problem in John Irving, Mary Gordon and during the summer and have con­tense Calisber. 
Because the senate reaffirmed the the bud," said Bertino. "It (the Hortense Calisher will be featured firmed nine of them, all very good," Poets attending the festival are
strict wording, Ombudsman now 
meeting) was for verification of the authors at the Sophomore literary Miller said. Alan Dugan, Howard Nemerov, Mi­
plans to enforce a more literal inter­
election rules and Rule 11 in partic­Festival, which will take place from Since the festival's beginning in chael Anania, and Jon Silkin. Dugan
pretation. "This year, we're going
ular." Feb. 24 to March 2. 1967, authors have responded has won two Pulitzer Prize awards
with the letter of the law," said favorably to invitations to speak, Mil­and a National Book Award.
Sienkiewicz.
Election Rule 11 states: "No one Festival Chairman Greg Miller 
ler noted. Many of them feel Nemerov has also won a Pulitzer may receive or solicit public en-Student Senator Pat Browne said said work began immediately after 
honored lO come to the festival," he Prize and a National Book Award, dorsements from any official organi-the senate's decision "really won't his appointment as chairman last said. and has published several works of 
zation or its members with the sole have an effect on the elections.... spring. Assisted by faculty members 
The festival will host three fiction and non-fiction. exception of the media. "Official (Endorsements) could give a person of the English Department and fac­prominent novelists. John Irving, au­Anania is a poet-novelist most organizations are defined as all an undue advantage, but I don't ulty advisor John Matthias, Miller 
thor of The World According to noted for his poems in The Color of campus organizations with normal think so." and his committee discussed possi-
Garp and The Hotel New Hampshire Dust and Riversongs, and for his 

Bouts continue amid controversy 

By MARK DILLON Bengal Bouts, involving 85 Notre during the actual bouts." StaffReporter Dame students, will be fought for Concern for safety is also a the 55th consecutive year. determinant is the scoring. Kelly 
The continuation of the Bengal Mike Latz, president of the said "The fights are based on style Bouts boxing tournament. which Notre Dame Boxing Club, and technique. Olympic scoring, raised more than S 1 S,OOO for the defended the tournament, used in the bouts, rewards tech­
missions of Bangledesh last year, saying, "I think it's important that nique equally with power. For in­has become a topic of debate you distinguish between profes­stance, a jab counts equally with recently. sional and amateur boxing. In pro a knockdown." The tournament, which uses boxing the fight is geared toward Pat Culhane, who suffered a 
the motto "We fight to feed," has a knockout. For example there is brain hemorrhage while training been a Notre Dame tradition no head gear, there are lighter for the bouts last year, was the since 1929. gloves, and fifteen rounds." first to sustain a serious injury in 
But the serious injury sus­"The Bengal Bouts are an the history of the Bengal Bouts. tained last year by graduate stu­amateur tournament," Latz con­Culhane was released from the dent Pat Culhane and the tinued. "In amateur boxing it is hospital after three days with no 
negative attention focused on only three roundo;, sixteen ounce ill effects. boxing in recent years has gloves are worn, head gear and Latz said that the Bengal Bouts, brought the future of the Bengal mouth pieces are required, and because of their preventative Bouts into question. any stunning blow stops the fight measures, have a better safety The American Medical Associ­record with regard to serious in­
for a standing eight count. Every­ation recently released a report thing is geared for safety." jury than interhall football. 
condemning boxing as "brutal, Tom Kelly, Director of Non­When asked about the future barbarous, and dangerous." Long Varsity Athletics, also stressed of the bouts in light of the time boxing proponent Howard the safety precautions taken for negative attention focused on Coscll will no longer provide the Bengal Bouts. Kelly said, boxing, Latz replied, "I'm very commentary on the sport be­"Our safety record is very good. optimistic. We had huge crowds cause of its danger. And the The boxers are given physical ex­last year and I see no reason for strongest outcry against boxing aminations before they begin that to change. In regard to the came when Ray "Boom Boom" training and again immediately criticism focused on boxing--I'm Mancini killed Duk Koo Kim in a prior to their bout. There are also suspicious of anyone who bout several years ago. first aid personnel at all training criticizes a sport they are not a 
Yet, on March 3, 5, and 8, the sessions and doctors at ringside part of." 
will attend. Mary Gordon, whose novel The Red Menace. Silkin is an novels Final Payments and The English poet whom Miller considers Company ofWomen have each sold one of the top English poeL~ living over one million copies, will speak today. on these works. The third, novelist 
see FESTIVAL, page 4
and short story writer Hortense 

Band loses Mardi Gras trip; academic interference cited 
O'Brien said that for the band to
ByJOHN MENNELL 
do anything out of the ordinary,
AssistantNews Editor 
such as the trip to New Orleans, re­quires special university permission.
The Notre Dame marching band He said student affairs denied the 
was denied an all-expense-paid trip band permission to go for "various to the Mardi Gras in New Orleans by reasons, including missing clases."
Student Affairs. 
"We were asked by the people "Undoubtedly there were other who run the Rex Parade," said Band reasons," O'Brien said. "'Ibe band Director Robert O'Brien. The Rex has a pretty high (academic) Parade is the official start of the average." Mardi Gras celebration. 
The only reason mentioned by Assistant Vice President for Stu­Cafarelli was academic considera­dent Affairs Father Francis Cafarelli 
tion. cited "intrusion into the academic 
One band member, who asked notschedule" as the main reason for not to be identified, said the band direc­allowing the band to go. The band 
tors sent forms to the members as­
would have to leave for the trip on 
king them how they would feel
Sunday, Feb. 20, and miss cla~s the about missing the three days ofclass.
next three days. 
"The decision was overwhelming," 
The Mardi Gras is an "entirely he said, "Only four, five or six out of new event," Cafarelli said. Post 212 members said they would care. season play in both basketball and From what I understand they could football are "expected" so participa­talk to the directors and would be tion by the band is permitted. excused." 

The Observer Thursday, January 31, 198 5 -page 2 

A College Bowl teani captained by senior Steve Zepf defeated a team captained by junior Tom Mowle in the second championship game of the Notre Dame Intermural College Bowl Tournament yesterday in the Center for Continuing Education. The College Bowl is billed as "the varsity sport of the mind" and is sponsored by Time magazine. A selection process will now begin to determine the four players who will represent Notre Dame at a regional tournament at Purdue University Feb. 16-17.-The Obseroer 


Of Interest 
A road. ttip to see the rock band the Violent Femmes on Sunday, Feb. 10 in Kalamazoo, Mich. is being sponsored by the Pro­gressive Music Club. Those interested must sign up tonight at 6 in LaFortune main lobby. Price of a ticket and transportation is S 13. SO for club members and S 1 S. 50 for non-members. -The Obseroer 
Ca1herineA. Kitcho,Geology Program Manager for the Office of Space Science and Applications, NASA, Washington, D.C., will speak on "Remote Sensing from Space -Studying the Earth as a Planet," today at 7 in the Science Lecture Hall at Saint Mary's. Kitcho will discuss her work with NASA, where she manages re­search programs in geologic remote sensing and synthetic aperture radar development. -The Obseroer 
Today is the deadline to register for the seminar "The 1985 Women Engineer: A Well-Rounded Professional." The event will take place on Feb. 23 in the Center for Continuing Educa­tion and is open to all women engineers. Those interested should submit a registration to their dorm representative of the Society of Women Engineers. -The Obseroer 
A skiing partyat Royal Valley Lodge will be sponsored by the senior class this Friday. Lift tickets will cost S8 and ski rentals will cost S9. For more information, contact the senior class office in LaFortune Student Center. -The Obseroer 

A senior lnnch. at Senior Bar will be sponsored by the senior class tomorrow afternoon beginning at 1 1 and ending at 2. Seniors will share their lunch with faculty and administrators.-The Obseroer 
AValentine's DayDancefor off-campus students 

will be at the Americana Hotel on Friday, Feb. 8. Tickets are S10 per couple and are available now at the Record Store in LaFortune Stu­dent Center. -The Obseroer 
The first off-canlpus newsletter of the spring se­mester is now available _at the Ombudsman booth in the LaFortune Student Center. The newsletter includes information on the Valentine formal, church services and various trips and events pianned for this semester for off-campus students. -The Obsen'er 
Tak.e off! A landlord's open house for any students inter­ested in moving off-campus will take place today from 3 to 7 p.m. The Off-campus senator and student government is sponsoring this event in the New Orleans Room of LaFortune. Information about Campus View, Notre Dame Apartments, Turtle Creek and private home owners will be available at the open house.-The Obseroer 

Weather 
A 30 percent chance of snow today with temperatures near steady in the low 20s. A 60 percent chance of snow tonight with lows from 10 to 1S. Tomorrow, a 40 percent chance ofsnow with highs near 20. -AP 


The Observer-. 
The Obsen"er (USPS 599 2·4000) is 
publhhed Monday through Friday and 
on home football Saturdays, except 
during exam and vacation periods. The 
Obsen"er is publbhed by the stud::nts of 
the University of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 

purchased for $30 per year ( S20 per se­
mester) by writing The Obsen"er, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Obsen"er is a member of The 

Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor..............................Anne Long Design Assistant........... Mark Mcl.aughlin Layout StaffScott Bearby, Ann Anderson Typesetters ....Jennifer Bigott, Tracy Brin· gardner Neu•s Editor......................... Keith Harrison Copy Editor........................ Mary Heilmann Sports Copy Editor.................. l.arry Burke Viewpoint Layout .............. Caroline Belin Features Copy Editor.. !\targaret McCabe Features Layout ....................Chris Bowler ND Day Editor................... Donna Gavi~an Ad Design .. Susan O'Hara, Kathy Krenzer Pbotograpber..................)ohannes Hacker 




Cheerleading is better left to students in the stands 
Question: What can a five-year-old girl dressed in pink do that a whole team of Notre Dame cheerleaders cannot? 
Ifyou answered "Bring a crowd to its feet," give your­
self a pat on the back for remembering one of the few 
highlights of last night's basketball contest with the St. 
Louis Billikens in the ACC. 
The child earned a standing ovation twice for shaking and gyrating to selections from the band. She was given the opportunity to perform because Jeff Anhut, the suspender-dad junior who periodically goes into dan­cing fits during a certain song, had to work tonight-­according to a sign held up by a friend. 
Meanwhile, your uniformed keepers ofthe Irish spirit watched from the floor. I hope they picked up a pointer or two. For when it comes to maintaining the spirit 
during games, the folks with the pom-poms have failed miserably. 
Two weeks ago, Notre Dame faced DePaul in na­tionally televised rematch. Not a seat was empty. During actual play, the stands were shaking, the din from the students' shouts as loud as anytime during the last four years. But during the timeouts, as everyone looked for direction from the cheerleaders, all we got were handstands. And pyramids. And choreographed dance routines. And the crowd sat down. 
Being a cheerleader at Notre Dame has to be one of the easier jobs to master. Ninty percent of the time, the student section starts the cheer anyway. The task usually becomes minimizing the time it takes to follow along. But there is that remaining ten percent when -God forbid -we actually need cheerleaders. Indeed, that's why the school dresses, trains and flys these individuals to all points of the country. 
But these people aren't leading cheers. They're rol­ling around the floor of the ACC doing impressions of Jennifer Beals and Kurt Thomas. And the atmosphere of the game suffers because ofit. The excitement ofcheer­ing for collegiate sports repeatedly gets drowned out under the onslaught of dance routines from the soundtrack of"Purple Rain." 
There's no help from the mascot, either. If there's 

anyone who has an outright license to go nuts during 
the game, it's the leprechaun. But talk about a dud. We 
were out-entertained by a Billiken last night, and I don't 
Take off! 
Off campus, that is. 

Landlords' Open House 
TODAY 3-7 p.m. 
LaFortune, 1st Floor, New Orleans Room 
Reps from: Campus View, Turtle Creek, Portage Place, NO Apts., & private landlords! 


Mark Worscheh 
Managing Editor 
even know what a Billiken is. 

Simple creativity is the request here. The best cheer­leaders don't just offer up the same old hash. The last cheer I can remember the skirted crew coming up with is the "arm swimming back and forth" cheer. But even that crowd favorite makes a rare appearance now in the ACC. Handstands and a dance move that looks like an attempt to dry fingernail polish is the standard fare. Nei­ther prompt much in the way of response, save a smat­tering ofapplause from kinds patrons on the other side 

• 

a un1que opportunity for 
Civil Engineers 
For you and the world it~elf. As a Peace Corps volun­teer, you can put your degrPe to work at a challeng­ing, demanding and unique opportunity. You'll be meeting new people, learning a new language, ex­periencing a new culture and-~aining a whole new outlook. And while you're buildrng your future, you'll help people in developing countries plan. design, and construct road~. buildings, sanitation systems, dams. bridges, canals or other structures which are critical for meeting their economic needs. 
l~cgi~tC'r 110\\ ror intclTic\\'~ l"l'11 () (~ -th in the C1rccr p ]~1!111 i ng Sc' n· i L'C'~ l)r riLl' 
of the arena. 
It's clearly time to take things into our own hands. The cheerleaders obviously are more content being a gymnastics team than being leaders of cheers. The game plan runs like this. Each game will be an audition. Anyone who wants to be a real cheerleader can just stand up and have a go at it. Whoever gets the most cheers gets the job. We're a democratic bunch. The five­year-old gets the LaSalle game on Wednesday based on last night's show, al­though Keith Lomax, the man the crowd called 
"Magic" from Providence College also deserves a shot. 
When football comes back, perhaps this won't be necessary. The sheer number of fans in the stands and the celebration surrounding each game makes any cheerleading void barely noticeable. But during basket­ball, inside the ACC, when keeping momentum can be vital to victory, cheerleading actually can become im­portant. And those entrusted with the job apparently would rather be on stage than on the ball. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 



The Observer Thursday,january 31, 1985-page 3 

U.S. Navy ship raided by a group of pirates 
Associated Press guards to be posted when travelling through the area. 
WASHINGTON-A band ofpirates The Military Sealift Command said boarded an American cargo ship guards had been posted on the Fal­leased to the Navy on Tuesday as it con Countess, but that their special passed through the Strait of Malacca, watch "had just ended as the ship tying up the, ship's captain and was leaving the "pirate zone." making off with $19,471 from the 
According to the command,ship's safe, the Pentagon said yester­piracy attacks in the area haveday. 
become almost routine since 1981The incident occurred at night off 
and most commercial oil tankersthe coast of Indonesia as the SS Fal­traversing the strait have begun pos­con Countess was traveling from ting guards as well. 
Bahrain to Guam, the Military Sealift The Falcon Countess was travell­
Command said in a statement. No ing at roughly 13% knots at the timeone was injured in the incident and of incident, according to the Pent­the ship conhnued on its route. 
agon statement. The pirates ap­The assault by the pirates, who parently used bamboo poles with
i 
were said to be armed with knives 
I hooks to climb from their boat on to
and bayonets and travelling in a the ship's stern.
f speedboat, is the second in two years involving a Navy-chartered "The pirates then rifled the ship's ship in the Strait of Malacca. The safe, taking $19,471, and threatened· Sealift Arctic was boarded by pirates and tied up the master, Capt. on Jan. 10, 1983, prompting the William Haney of West Palm Beach, 
I 
Navy to issue instructions calling for Fla.," the statement said. 

Marge Hronchek, president ofBreen-Phillips; Scott Hardek, co-president ofF/anner; and Cathy David, student body vice pt·esident, blow offfor awhile at the first BOFA Club social gathering in Flanner Hall. The Hall Presidents' Council sponsored the event. 

Snow on campus parking lots sparks widespread criticism 
By RICHARD PILGER reaction to snow removal efforts he is allowed to spend as much are nearly emptied of cars each Dedrick in order to devise a more News Staff as one of "almost universal un­money as he needs to employ night. "If we send plows down efficient plowing eftort. "I happiness recently." Professor workers overtime after a heavy the lanes the snow is kicked up checked out the lots and they Recent snowfalls have clogged Michael Etzel observed that snowfall. behind the students' cars, making were pretty bad," said many campus parking lots, "many mornings it seems they Currently there are 15 men it difficult to move them," he Sienkiewicz. "I saw many cars causing problems for commuting haven't cleared the lots at all." using 11 vehicles, two snow said. "Ifwe could get the cars out going around and around trying 
students and staff. Student Senator Javier Oliva blowers, and shovels to clear the for a night we could plow the to get unstuck." 
Lanes heavily clogged with agreed, saying that he had just campus ofsnow. The priority list lots, but some students' cars snow and parking spaces which spent half an hour digging out his for these men descends from won't start at this point. We're "I'd like to see some kind of are often impenetrable have own car and suggesting that the roads and important sidewalks to looking at maybe using a directive that would require stu­provoked criticism ofthe Univer­snow crews must be under­student lots, which are dealt with frontloader in there." dents to park for a night in the big sity's snow removal procedure manned and ill-equipped. last. lots by the ACC and stadium," he among both students and staff. Dan Dedrick, director ofPhysi­Dedrick cited several obsta­Henry Sienkiewicz, Om-added. "If that is done soon after 
Robert Miller, Director of Uni­cal Plant, denied Oliva's cles to effective plowing of stu­budsman director, has been dis­each heavy snow the plows could versity Libraries, described the allegation, however, stating that dent lots, noting that other areas cussing the situation with do a good job on student lots." 

From: Saturday Feb. 16, 11:00a.m. 
To : Sunday Feb 17, 5:00p.m. 
Trip Includes: Roundtrip chartered coach bus. Quad occupancy at the Holiday Inn on Lake Shore Drive. Walking distance to shopping, entertainment and Nightlife. 
Cost: $24 per sophomore. 
Complete PAYMENT DUE BY Midnight Feb 4th. 
Sign up entire quad with any dorm rep. 
Any ND or SMC sophomore is eligible to attend. 
Conte Party with the 

CLASSOF87! 
" .-=!'~" ~ ~-· )':v·~.· •,·-;f ' • . ~~-• ",' 
OPEC decision to cut prices will not affect costs at pump 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Analysts said OPEC's split decision yesterday to cut some prices for only the second time in its 25-year history is not likely to lead to immediate price cuts at the gas pump. 
And for the time being, they said, prices may level offor nudge slightly higher. 
"OPEC was responding to condi, tions on the open market, rather than leading the way," said Philip Verleger Jr., an oil industry analyst for the consulting firm of Charles River Associates. "The consumer has been able to take advantage of most of what has happened already." 
With earlier price cuts by OPEC competitors, such as Britain, Nor­way, Canada and U.S. oil companies, the average price of a gallon of gasoline has fallen 5.3 cents in the past three months, according to a recent nationwide survey by Dan Lundberg, a Los Angeles gasoline price consultant. 
Verleger said that if the industry interprets OPEC's action as a sign that the price-cutting is over, oil companies that had postponed pur­chases because of price uncertainty 
may resume buying, pushing prices up initially. 
On the New York Mercantile Ex­change, prices of contracts for future delivery of crude oil opened sharply higher after the Organiza­tion of Petroleum Exporting Countries concluded its special three-day meeting with its pricing announcement. The 27-cent rise to $25.65 a barrel in contracts for March delivery of West Texas Inter­mediate marked a rebound from a slump that earlier in the week had dragged the top U.S. grade of oil below S25 for the first time in more than five years. 
Earlier today in Geneva, Switzer­land, nine of OPEC's 13 members agreed to reduce some prices by up to S1.41 a barrel. But three members who have been pressing for holding the line on prices-Algeria, Ubya and Iran -refused to go along and Gabon abstained. Nigeria raised its prices by 65 cents, restoring part of a $2 cut implemented in October, when it broke ranks with the cartel to meet competition from Britain and Norway. 
Each $1 cut in the price of oil is equivalent to a reduction of 2% cents a gallon in the price of refined petroleum products, such as gasoline or heating oil. 
............................................................................................... 
Discover Diving with J.R. Aquatic Ce'nter 
Soles Specials on: 
51333 us 31-33 No. US Divers Former John Suits 199.95 
US Divers Conshelt 20 Octopus 79.95
South Bend, IN 46637 US Divers DotoMox 3 Gouges 129.95 
Toboto Deluxe Jacket BC 225.00
2n-oo5a 
Cayman Island Trip March 30 · Aprll6, 1985
Hours: 12-5 M-W-TH-F $1COO 
Classes starting now: Call Dione tor details 
.............................................................................................. 
I 
I : 

Ii I' 
The Observer Thursday,January 31, 1985 -page 4 

Congressmen release new tax plan ,----------------, 
Aasodatcd Press different• plans. A second news con-cuts to offset inflation would be I SENIORS I I ference provided a forum for Sens. repealed. 
t t
WASHINGTON -Agreeing that Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz., and •Kemp-Kasten features a single 24 Americans need still-lower tax rates Steven Symms, R-Idaho, to spell out percent tax rate, but in effect there 
t SENIOR-FACULTY-t
and that solid support of President their proposal. . would be a two-rate structure be­Reagan is necessary, members of Here are key provisions affecting cause the first 20 percent of wages Congress yesterday introduced individuals: subject to Social Security tax ­

: ADMINISTRATION : 
three plans to make sweeping •Bradley-Gephardt would $39,600 this year· would be exempt changes in the federal income tax. compress the present tax-rate from income taxes at most income 
t LUNCH! t
The bills share one major goal: all structure ( 1 5 rates for single people, levels. Exemptions and standard three would reduce individual tax 14 for joint returns, ranging from 11 deductions would be raised. A four­t t rates, continuing the three-stage cut percent to 50 percent) into three -member family's first Sl2,540 
t at t 
that was enacted at Reagan's insis­14 percent, 26 percent and 30 per­would be exempt. Automatic annual tence in 1981. They are aimed at cent. Sponsors say three-quarters of tax reductions would be retained. t SENIOR BAR t making the tax law fairer and taxpayers would pay only the 14 
t t
simpler, although sponsors have dif­percent rate. •The plan outlined by DeConcini ferent ideas on how to reach those Numerous deductions would be and Symms is a true "flat tax" be­goals. eliminated; those that remained cause a single 19 percent tax rate I Friday, February 1st : 
At one news conference yester­would be applied only against the 14 would apply to all taxable income. 
I 11:00 am-2:00pm I
day, Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J., Rep. percent rate. Personal exemptions All deductions would be repealed. Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., Rep. jack and standard deductions would be The first $12,600 earned by a family 
: $1.25 -brats I 
Kemp, R-N.Y., and his co-sponsor, increased. The first Sl1,200 earned of four would be tax free. It is so Sen. Robert Kasten, R-Wis., appeared by a four-member family would be simple that any person's tax return t .75-drafts, burgers t side by side urging support for their tax-free and automatic annual tax would fit on a postcard. 
L----·~~:t~, ~~d~g:----_t 



Senator disputes Meese's actions 

Associated Press tion hearings to questions about his though Army officials said it gave the conduct. appearance offavoritism. 
PROBLEMS IN EAT/ NG 
wASHINGTON . The ranking Biden's comments followed hours Committee Chairman Strom democrat on the Senate judiciary of often repetitive questioning Thurmond, R-S.C., quickly rose to THERAPY GROUP Committee, in a sudden burst of about the federal appointments Meese's defense, saying, "If you emotion, told Edwin Meese III yes-given to people who helped Meese were not the man of the right char­terday his behavior was ethical but financially. acter, you would be a multi­"beneath the office" ofattorney gen-In many of his responses, Meese millionaire." 
Are You Familiar With Eating Disorders?
eral. raised technical points to explain his "I don't believe you're unethical," "Who the hell cares" about the behavior. For instance, he said his Biden said. "But I think the office (of Are you concerned by some or all of the following? technical points, said Sen. joseph promotion from lieutenant colonel attorney general) should be occu­
Awareness that your eating pattern is abnormal and fear Biden Jr. of Delaware in response to to colonel in the Reserves did not vi-pied by a person of extraordinary of not being able to stop eating voluntarily. Meese's answers during confirma-olat.e U.S. Army regulations, even character." Spending an of thinking ahout
inordinate amount time food. 
~.r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r~..r...cr-..r~_,.._,.._,..~...,........
_,.....,.....,......,..,.....c>""....,.J"'~J"J"'J"'J"J"J.)f'"./"1' 

Consumption of high-c.1loric food during a binge. 
Hiding while bin~ing.
U.S. posts 8 ~ 
~ Student $averStore I Repeated attempts to lose or milintain weight hy severely 
restrictive diets, self-induced vomiting, or use of 
cathartics or diuretics.

worst deficit § §
§ Now with complete inventory § 
Anxiousness, depression. low sc Lf -esteem or loncl ines~ which are dealt with through <>aling.
in its history I of Health and beauty Aids ~ 
l::ating disorders affect fcm<~les and males hut is more prevalent among young wom~11 .•
Associated Press § § 
A 12-weck strut lt.r,··' tfl<'r'H"'-' 1 "'n mc..·eting every MondHy, be­ginning Monday, February4,1985 n the Notre !Jamc caml"'"·
WASHINGTON -The United~ 2 C ff h Ch B II § Limited Enrollm,·al.
States posted its worst trading year ~ room -0 t e atauqua a room, ~ in history in 1984-a u23.3 billionS 2nd Floor LaFortune ~ Contact CotmHt."'i inh .tml Services Center by
tht..· Psy<·holo~:i.(.·;d .l~nuary 25, JlJUJ 1..1 intnnn.11 inn .tnd .\1\ interview.
deficit that nearly doubled the old ~ ti 
For further infQrmation conlacl:
~~~~:~a:e government reported~ OPEN ~ 
Mary ThciH, M.~. 
or Pat Dunn, M.A.

Both_ the Reagan ~dministr~tion ~ : 3 : 00 • 7 : 00pDl ~ 
and pnvate economists predicted N 8 
2]9-7336 

the trade deficit will grow even 8 ~ 
larger this year. B 8 Jf this group time conflicts wittt your schedule, llleadc cont~ct us. The Commerce Department said !Jo-..r..r..r..r...r~...er_,...r.r..r...r_.......r..r.r~J"'....cY""J"_....._,.._,..r..rJ"'..r_,....r..rJ"'..r_.......r.r...rJ"'....:.r..r~ 
the 1984 deficit topped the old mark of S69.4 billion set in 1983 and was almost three times the 1982 level of 
542.7 billion. 

The growing deficits have been blamed primarily on the strength of the U.S. dollar, which since the fall of 1980 has surged upward by more than 40 percent against major cur­rencies. 
Since the dollar is not expected to drop significantly this year, most analysts expect the trade deficit will worsen farther hitting S130 billion. 


Festival 
continuedfrom page 1 

Playwright and novelist joanna Glass will also attend the festival. Her play, entitled Play Memory, received a 1984 Tony Award nomination. 
Completing the list is author and critic George Hunt, Editor-in-Chief of America magazine. He ha..'l pub­
, lished two comprehensive analyses of the works of john Updike and john Cheever, entitledjobn Updike and the Three Great Secret Things: Sex, Religion, and Art and john Cheever and the Hobgoblin Com­pany ofLove. 
While at the festival, authors will give evening lectures, with question and answer sessions following. Some will hold workshops and make in­class appearances during the week. 
Notable authors who have atten­ded past festivals include Kurt Vonnegut, Norman Mailer, joseph Heller, Arthur Miller, and Tennessee Williams. 
INTRODUCING THE NEW MACINTOSH XL 
M22cintosh XL inc1udes 512K , and optional 512k expansion board to give you 1rnegabite 
intemt~l memory  
M22cintosh XL 512K  2821.50  
expDnsion boDrd  524.40  

M~cintosh l28k Profession22l P22ck~ge av~Hable untH March 15, 1985 1765.00 1ncludes 1261< mac Macwr1te/Macpa1nt Software lmagewr1ter & external d1sl< drive for a sav1ngs of $237. 101 M~cintosh 512k Computer 1795.50 
1ncludes Macwr1te/Macp~1Q! Software 512k Macintosh upgrade 672.60 Macintosh Computer 1197.00 lm~gewri ter 448.02 External Disk Drive 367.08 1200 Bt~ud Modem 377.34 300 B~ud Modem 171.00 Box of 1 0 BlDnk Disks 33.06 SectrityCable 36.48 
(219)239-7477 seryjce contract pricing ayaiJible on reguesL 

1he Observer Thursday,January 31, 1985-page 5 

ID•Ilo•va•tor (in'e-va'ter) n. 1. One who begins or introduces something new; one who is creative. 
2. THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES. 

-

Ideas spark innovation. Imagination fuels it. Achievement realizes it. 
At The Travelers, we challenge your po­tential so you can strive for innovation. 
So let your ideas help shape our future. And yours. 
Write to: Rubin Fisher, Assistant Director, College and Professional Recruiting, Depart­ment 31 , The Travelers Companies, One Tower Square, Hartford, Ct 06183. 




TheTravelerSJ 
The Travelers Companies Hartford. Connect1cut 06183 
The Observer Thursday, january 31, 1985 -page 6 
Finns find w~eCkage of Soviet missile; apology issued 
A.ssodated Press 
HELSINKI, Finland. -Finnish officials said yesterday they have found the wreckage of the Soviet missile that strayed from a military exercise last month and that the Russian words on it confirm it was a target drone, not a cruise missile. 
Pieces of the missile, hunted ever since it strayed from Soviet naval ex­ercises in the Barents Sea Dec. 28, werefound on a frozen Finnish lake. 
The missile's flight, first over a thinly populated area of northern Norway and then into Finland, where it disappeared from r~dar screens, caused a sensation when it was initially described by Nor­wegian officials as a stray cruise missile. 
"We found the nose of the missile and chunks of metal on the ice and the Russian text on them confirms that the object was a flying target," Air Force Maj. Lars Fredriksson said at a news conference. 
Finnish Air Force divers are to go beneath the frozen surface of remote Lake Inari today to hunt for the main body ofthe missile, he said. The missile is believed to be about 4 5 feet under the ice. 
"By the size of the nose I would estimate that the missile was about 10 meters (33 feet) long," Fredriksson said. 
In the area where. the nose was 

found there was a crater-like depres-gone off course during firing exer­sion surrounded by packed ice, an cises. indication that something heavy had The search area was closed to out­penetrated the frozen lake, the siders a..fler reindeer herder Veijo major added. Saijets found a piece of plastic there 
He said he did not expect the Monday. Soviets to ask Finland to return the "At first I thought the object was remnants of the missile, because something fishermen had left be­"junk is the best word to describe hind but on second thought it what is now left ofit." looked so peculiar and so unlike 
The Soviet Union made an un-anything I have ever seen that I took precedented apology to Norway and it to the border guard people," Finland, saying a target missile had Saijets said. 

..,_,_,...__

_,_~ 
BEVERLY HILLS COP 
~:MTll LA 8E1.I..E I StW..AIIARI JUNIOR I Jlla( JAIIES/POWTER SISTERSI GUHN FREY I DANNY BRIAN I THE SYSTEM 
iiiftit..Y..Uc:.a; 
·~~;s.··=~;;_
~~ 

. ­
-I 
INCLUDES: New Atfitude 

PHILIP BAILEY 
CHINESE WALL


SALE 
including: Photogenic Memory Easy Lover (Duet with Phil Collins·) I Go Crazy/Walking On The Chinese Wall Children Of The Ghetto 

ll18UMOR 
Cll55fii'f 
o.;.-DURAN DU 
Arena 
F--...,_studio trKt! THE WILD BOYS plua HUNGRY IJI(E THE WOLF, UNION OF THE SNAKE. SAVE A PRAYER, IS THERE SOMETHING ISHOULD KNOW? 
( 
j 


WHAM! 
MAKE IT BIG 

including: Wake Me Up Before 'fbu Go-Go Careless Whisper/Freedom If You Were There 
BARBRA STREISAND 

Includes: There's ~ Way1 
--·-­
·-----

Loogbolot Keyl40 Hour Week 1------1 
CASSETTE 

JOHN FOGERTY CENTERFIELD 
JANE FONDA 
PRIME TIME 
WORKOUT 

.I J SAVE ON BASF CHROME VIDEOI 

SCOI'CH SUPER SAVINGSI 

T-120/L-750 
Reg. *6" 

Sale $5.99
Price 

~!6~te •$J.00 

T~~.~~:sd





$4,,
FINAL 
COST 

Scotch!· 
VIDEOCASSETTES 
/I 
I I~ l 
f 
~ 
l 
rl 
T-120/L-750 Reg. '6" 
Sale Price 
FINAL
COST 
f 
'( University Park Mall



CA MUSIC
'r
• 272-4186
'I 
15 MUSIC IIIID MOREl University Park Movie Dept.-Sale or Rental 
Pricing good through February 6, 1985. 
.. 
--. 
Thursday,january 31, 1985-page 7
Accent 

~ 
.. 
.. 
Curtains up! Keenan stars come out tonight 
weeks. The typical skit is born as a floor resident. "But everyone's together provide a pretty steady
by Marc Ramirez sudden flash in the mind ofsome­pretty relaxed, because it's so much cash flow in one direction. So ads 
one who is in the midst ofsome­fun." are sold, Keenan Revue T-shirts are
features columnist 
thing trivial, such as attending a "We're all looking forward to it," sold, and most important, donations adds freshman Tom Thanopolous. are encouraged at the door in order 
E
veryone in Keenan Hall is going up the steps and onto the stage." class, taking a shower, or just plain "There's a lot ofdorm pride in­to offset the liabilities. 
crazy. According to Boraczek, prepara­lyin' around. 
volved. It's a lot offun for everyuue "Donations are our largest"It's a mess," one resident an­tion for the revue began as soon as From there the idea is weaned for around here." source," says Keohane. "Ifwe didn't nounced last Sunday night between "the curtain went down" on last several minutes in the mind, then The fun began in 1977 as the have that, we couldn't make it." 
breaths. "Just wait until Wednes­year's show. So although most schooled at See-What-Your­concept of two former Keenan "Our costs are just enough," adds day." people may have just started to Roommates-Think-About-It Univer­residents, Rick Thomas and Torn MacLennan, pausing pensively,He paused to answer a fellow realize within the last week or so sity, a grueling program which Lenz, as a method to promote hall "that ifeach person coming into the resident's question. "Yeah, that yes, the Keenan Revue does operates on a pass/fail grade sys­unity and spirit, which Thomas and revue emptied his or her wallet or Publicover. He's a freshman down open tonight, it actually has been in tem. Ifthe idea makes it past that Lenz felt wa.., not up to par. In its purse, we'd just break even." 
on the second floor." its introductory stages for some point, it is sent to Audition College initial three years, it was staged in Keohane and Boraczek stress "People are just opening books time already. for the Master's program, and if it Washington Hall on the Notre their thanks to everyone associated now (Sunday night) for tomorrow," Before the spring semester of survives there, it is ready to face the Dame campus, but was moved to with the revue, especially the staff he continued. "And no one will do 1984 ended, the Revue's new direc­real world, or at least those mem­O'Laughlin in 1980 to accommo­at O'Laughlin and Dr. Emil Hoffman, .. 
any work for the rest of the week. In tor and producer were chosen (last bers of the real world who were date its growing popularity. There who is a staunch supporter of the fact, I'm going to be at Saint Mary's year's producer, Randy Fahs, and able to get tickets. 
was some fear that the large num­show. 

every night this week from six until director, David Magana, both "We had about 75 acts audition ber ofpeople in Washington would
midnight." graduated). Last semester the this year," notes Keohane. "That's And so, the annual barrage of
literally bring the house down.

He and more than 200 other remaining staff wa.., formed by the most ever." talent and humor which in the past ..
So, in this, its ninth anniversary

Keenan residents have had to hold Boraczek and Keohane. Junior Ifevery act were allowed to has targeted for abuse topics such
(the Information Please Almanac 

their calls as they prepared for this Stephen Thomas and freshman Paul perform, says Boraczek, the show as Cap'n Crunch, the exam and
suggests, quite appropriately, that

year's Keenan Revue, the annual Kane were picked as assistant direc­would run well over six hours. So alcohol policies, Billy Joel, and
you bring a gift ofleather), the

showcase of Keenan talent which tors, and seniorJim MacLennan from Friday afternoon until Satur­Notre Dame stereotypes, goes on.
Keenan Revue is still going strong,

opens tonight at 8 in O'Laughlin comes all the way from San Ber­day night, the acts were called and Very little is sacred. Maybe nothing
its popularity rampant enough that

Auditorium at Saint Mary's. The nadino, Calif., to serve as head the few were chosen to fill the time is sacred. 
some were in line for the gratuitousshow also runs tomorrow and Satur­writer. allotted the show. "It hurt to cut The Keenan Revue demands a lottickets by 7 a.m. on Tuesday mor­

day nights at 8. Admission, as al­Operating under this small, some ofthe stuff," admits Boraczek. ofwork, from both those involved
ning. Distribution began at 4:30

ways, is free. sleepy-eyed elite is most of Keenan "We had to pick on the basis of the p.m. in its production and those who 
"It'll be new, and creative, but we Hall. The show will feature approxi­most original, most promising acts. must wait in line for tickets and can't tell you what's in it," says this mately 225 enthusiastic residents in We had to think of what would look But why, asks the intelligent then traverse the distance to Saint year's producer, Bill Boraczek, a roles as actors, musicians, writers, funny on stage." reader, is the show so popular? Mary's in cold, dreary weather. But senior from Larchmont, N.Y. Borac­ads salesmen, ushers, make-up In the last week, the whole show "Well, it's free," says Keohane. for most, it's worth it, even though zek and director Neil Keohane, a artists, program designers, T-shirt falls into place. On Monday the acts "And it's unique. It's a great date. the long hours may take their toll. junior from Natick, Mass., have salesmen and production people. were first practiced at O'Laughlin; The weather's cold, so there's not "Look at us," said Keohane last been devoting a lot oftime to put­Non-residents will be involved only on Tuesday, most technical aspects many parties. It's early in the semes­Sunday in the lobby ofLaFortune as 
•
ting together this year's revue. A lot in technical positions in O'Laughlin, of the show were ironed out; yes­ter, so studies are just beginnillg, he pointed out the double-strength oftime. and as make-up artists. Onstage it terday performers staged dress and that way Keenan residents can bags under his eyes. "A week from 
"I do the logistics work," says will be Keenan, and no one else. rehearsal. put a lot ofwork into it. today, we'll all be very tired Boraczek. "The behind-the-scenes Planning lasted a long time. The Tonight, it's showtime. Ofcourse, Keenan Revues don't people." stuff. I take the production to the majority ofskits, however, have a "People are pretty excited," says grow on trees, and the costs in­Probably. But for now, they're steps ofO'Laughlin, and Neil takes it lifespan of not much more than two sophomore Brian Quinn, a fourth-curred while putting the show havin' some fun. 




Accent
! 

Tim Adams 
Record review 

There's just no substitute for 

D
uring the Christmas holidays, I saw the Replacements in con­cert at a bar in Chicago. It was kind ofa silly show, and the band, which hails from Minneapolis, was in good spirits. The lead singer and rhythm guitarist, Paul Westerberg, kept pulling the cord out oflead guitarist Bob Stinson's guitar and running away. Bob played a solo using his shoe as a pick, the roadie sang a song, and the band, which is filled out with Bob's 18 year-old bass­playing brother Tommy and drum­mer Chris Mars, even switched instruments for a song. 
What really struck me was that these four guys were not only having a good time, but they were " 
·also playing music that is not always funny; it has some very serious moments. This delicate balance, in 
general, results in "music that mat­ters." This is exactly what the Replace­ments produce. 
They put the fun, creativity, and message ~ dearly needed back into music. Let It Be, their latest album, displays their increasingly inim­itable style ofgarage rock and shows just why hip America is beginning to have a love affair with the Replacements. 
LetIt Be begins with the single that could very well break them through to a larger audience. The song is "I Will Dare," and it has been receiving considerable expo­sure in clubs across the country. It is a lighthearted, bouncy tune about an aging man trying to arrange a rendezvous with a younger woman. He sings: 
How young areyou? 

Offthe dance floor, it's mediocre music 
Don Seymour 
·{ I Record review 
E

mergency --Kool and the Gang, 
the nine member band from Jersey City that appeared on the scene over fifteen years ago with a self-titled debut song, has released a new album. It is named, ofcourse, Emergency and is filled with the same combination ofsleek pop, rythym and blues and funk that has frequented the charts regularly for the last seven or so years. The band, led by bassist Robert "Kool" Bell and vocalist James Taylor (yes, a different James Taylor.), is best known for the joyous pop romp "Celebration," still a favorite at dances and parties, as well as the downright funky "Get Down on It," the reggae-tinged "Let's Go Dan­cing," the smooth middle-of-the­road R&B of"Joanna," and others like "Ladies Night," "Too Hot," and "Tonight." All these songs display the band's knack for writing irresis­table and professional songs. 

Emergency will not disappoint our Top 40 music culture. "Misled," already being heard on radios throughout the country continues the band's tradition ofdanceable, if shallow, hits. 
The album blasts open with the slam-bam title cut. "Emergency" quickly establishes a catchy hook charged by power chords and throbbing bass. Taylor's unmis­takable vocals shift into an apt and melodic verse about heavy and uncontrollable passion bordering on the suggestion ofviolence. The song is tailor-made for dance floors, but the continuous beat tends to become monotonous. 
"Fresh", an easy-going love song, follows. The song is sleekly produced and the image ofan indi­vidual being fresh like a spring day engages but flounders with the standard fare that fills the rest of the lyrics. 
How oldam/? Let's count the rings around my 
eyes 
How smart are you? 
How dumb am I? 
Don't count any ofmy advice 
The lead singer, Paul, has a ter­rific rock 'n' roller's voice: gritty yet still capable ofsensitivity and emo­tion, kind oflike Bruce Springsteen's. In "I Will Dare," he plays the old man perfectly, down to the admission that he needs someone in his life:Ain't lost yet so 
I gotta be a winner Bacon and cigarettes is a lousy dinner 
What he's saying is that he needs someone to care for him, to cook for him. He's sick ofbacon and cigarettes. Quite unusual a concern for a rock band, huh? 
It seems as if the Replacements have done some serious thinking about loneliness and despair; per­haps they've experienced more than their fair share ofit. "Sixteen Blue" is a serious song about the loneliness ofgrowing up. It is about real life, and how kids try to cope with it. In it, Westerberg sings how life can be so frustrating and boring when you're young: 
Driveyourselfright up the wall No one bears and no one calls It's a boring state It's a useless wait /know 
This last statement about knowing what it's like is a very tender one, and we know he means it. Our teenage years are the hardest ones in our life. They're filled with awkwardness, sexual ambiguity, peer pressure, and just plain boredom. All these things are ad­dressed in this song, and the result of this is a confused Westerberg saying, "I don't understand." We can feel the tension in his voice, and suddenly we remember our high school days. "Sixteen Blue" gives a realistic view about maturing, yet it shows empathy, in a way. Bob Stin­son's beautiful solo at the end practically speaks to us, and it evokes some strong emotions. No other song about youth that I know ofdoes it better. 


"Misled," the highlight of this collection, comes next. The tune's title is a pun referring to the hero's misfortune in love and to the wo­man who wreaks that havoc. Power chording gives the song its power­ful feel and irresistable dance beat. However, the group's lyrical weak­ness rears its head in a line that gave me a good laugh: She's as heavy as a Chevy!pureexcttement/~is/ed." 
"Cherish," a sweet love song, ends the side. The song is genuinely pleasant to listen to despite my dislike of the word "cherish." The lyrics foreshadow later divine refer­ences when Taylor wistfully croons: 
Ifyou receiveyour calling before I wake. This may be the next single. 
The second side explodes like the first with the hypnotic beat of "Surrender." The record's sleek production continues, and the lyrics, though still about love, take a different approach, almost as ifthe song were politically or morally motivated. 
"Bad Woman," a soulful slower song follows. The lyrics start on a bittersweet tone:Every time I see lovers look into each other's eyes, I realize the best ofmy life was you, 
but slip into confusion in the 
chorus:Bad woman, mad wo­
man/you're the only one to satisfy 
the man. I may be slow, but I find 
not even a hint ofexplanation as to 
why the woman is bad or mad. 
The album's final song is in keeping with same musical groove, but takes an interesting lyrical turn. "You Are the One" is sprightly synth funk about a different kind of love--love ofGod. The words create a new dimension to the group's music, for me anyway, which has so often relied on standard themes of love and fun. Here's an excerpt from the only lyrics printed on the album jacket: 
In the name ofthe one who's gra­dous, the one who's merciful, high and mighty, we can feel it, through yourpres­ence all around us everyday. W'ben 
we're singing, working, playing, we give praises to your name. We thank the 
Creatorfor 
blessing us with success. 


The words are touching, but the song's seven minutes runs too long. 
Kool and the Gang have as­sembled a sleekly produced pack­age of danceable ditties. There are two notes to make though. 
First, after a decade of fluffy, disposable lyrics, I find it hard to take them any more seriously than smartly-fitted dressing. That's precisely why "You Are the One" surprised me. So many oftheir 



Bulling through tt 
by Andi Schnuck 
features staff writer 
" Thefirst four seconds ofan 
interview will decide the outcome." This may seem to be an exaggeration, butJim Schaf­fer, author of"How to Get a BetterJob in Indiana-Bullish Success," believes the heart ofan interview is in the first four minutes and the greatest impact is made in the opening seconds. 
"A good beginning and closing will leave the best impression on an interviewer," Schaffer says. He notes that creativity in an interview will leave a lasting impression on the prospective employer. Schaffer uses the term "Halo effect" to describe the act ofemphasizing notable achieve­ments that will wow the inter­viewer and overshadow minor points that might detract from one's desirability as a potential employee. 
Schaffer offers these and other "new and radical" concepts in "Bullish" to provide an updated approach to a job search. He felt a fresh outlook was needed to survive in a job market flooded by new college graduates as well as newly unemployed. 
Schaffer focused on four basic problems usually encountered during an applicant's search for a job. First and most important is the applicant's ability to deal with rejection -it generally ac­companies interviewing. Self-songs have dealt with love that the 

words have become meaningless 
and indifferent. 

Second, excepting the occasional clicks of brilliance that have produced memorable songs like "Misled" and "Celebration," much of the band's material struggles to rise above mediocrity, despite danceable rythyms and pleasant melodies. 
Still, "Misled" lingers in my ears .. 
confidence is a must when 
making the rounds of interview­ing. 
Ofalmost equal importance is the need to focus one's energies. Many people head in too many directions as they consider em­ployment possibilities. A good hard look at what one wants do with his or her life is necessary to find success and happiness in the vocational world. 
One important strategy for interviewing is the use of mar­keting tactics. The applicant should "hook" the prospective employer into wanting to know more about their prospective employee. Schaffer stressed that sensitivity to the needs of the interviewing company will help the applicant to assert talents and interests according to what will best fit those needs. This gives an opportunity to demon­strate creativity while maintain­ing an image that would fit their "team." 
Although an applicant may not, at first, seem to fit the per­ceived image ofa company, Schaffer feels there are ways to react within an interview that will overcome these deficiencies. A good strong atti­tude and self-projection show the interviewer that one is seriously interested in the com­pany. 

Thursday,January 31, 1985-page 8-9 

the Replacements' Let it Be 

The Replacements give an altern­ative look at another seemingly superficial topic-androgyny. "Androgynous" tells about two people, Dick and Jane, wearing clothes associated with the oppo­site sex. Dick and Jane love each other, but people laugh at them. They're happy with how they are, and as Paul Westerberg points out, "Cupie dolls and urine stalls will be laughed at the way you're laughed at now." The song doesn't encour­age androgyny per se, but it does seem to support individualism, another important theme for the Replacements. 
This theme is touched upon in "Answering Machine," a song about how machines can interfere with human communication. It poses a simple question: How to say "I love you" to an answering machine? Or "I'm lonely"? Or "good night"? Or "I miss you"? Obviously, you can't say any ofthese to a machine; only a real person will do. So Paul quiver­ingly says, "Oh, I hate your answer­ing machine." The song is solely Paul's, as he plays a powerful guitar part with no backing. The song fades with a recording ofan oper­
ator repeating itselfover and over, 
and it makes a statement on the 
difference between machines and 
humans. 
Not all ofletItBe's songs are as thought-provoking as these, but, nonetheless, they are still great. "Favorite Thing" is full ofincom­plete statements like "Yeah, I know. I love. I kill. I smoke. I drink. And I'm feeling swell." It is probably just a nonsensical song played very tightly, but it does say something. It is kind ofa love song, with its chorus of"You're my favorite thing." The playing on this song is great, and it is one of the album's more fun numbers. 
There are two really hilarious songs onLetItBe, "Tommy Gets His Tonsils Out," and "Gary's Got a Boner." "Tommy" is a visit to the local psychopathic dentist, or whoever it is who takes out tonsils. Monster guitar riffs and fast bass and drums accompany Paul Wester­berg's overanxious yellings like: 
Let's get this over with I tee offin an hour Didn't wash up 


The Kinks, a legend in their own time 
Bob Phillips 
Record review 
0 
ne band, nearly dating hack to the birth of rock, deserves special attention in that they dem­onstrate what may be called "the 

.e interview game 
how to get a better job 
in Indiana 
• Hoosier ~soo" Indiana'" l.alading Employers 
• H#lp-Want.•d Ad111o 
to Tbou~andi< of Carettta 
• lndtana Jobs 
What's Hot, \\'hat'• Not 
• Hoosier Matdua4en 
Employm•mt 1\_.nc;.. f.tlecutive Hecnatten 
• PlustheUttt.ate 
Breakthrough Rett•~~te 
ULLISII UCCEIS! 
~{. 
::~':· 
James Schaffer 
non-Beatle group from Britain to 
have a number one song in America 
-"You really Got Me," ( 1964). 
Twenty-one years later, they per­
form in three videos for M1V, one 
of which is the channel's finest. 
This group needs no further 

introduction. I'm referring, of 
course, to The Kinks. 
How does this band remain so 

strong, interesting and popular after 
over 20 years? The answer is very 
simple: Ray Davies, the lead singer 
and songwriter, is a charismatic 
genius. Musically, he's been able to 
create over two decades of 
pleasurable music. Lyrically, his wit 
and optimism are reknowned, com­
bining social satire with personal 
statements. Personally, he's able to 
win anyone to his side with his 
warm, friendly approach. His per­
sonality, more than anthing else, has 
held this group together and kept 
its audiences interested. 
And now, Ray Davies has done it again. Word ofMouth, released about a month ago, is a collection of intelligent, fun songs from rock's most accessible performer. Al­though Davies himself has been beset by personal problems (recent dissension within the band, and the recent defection ofChrissie Hynde ofthe Pretenders from his life), his lyrics remain ultimately optimistic and at times, humorous. 
Ray Davies is usually at his worst when experimenting with hard rock. Even this type ofsong succeeds to a degree on Word of Mouth. The two examples ofthis type ofsong, "Sold Me Out" and the title song, are mediocre in them­selves, but are saved by the smooth guitar work ofRay's brother Dave. 
The Kinks are at their best when Ray is mellow, the sound becomes lighter without becoming easy listening material. Here his lyrical wit shines, and he demonstates the interesting qualities of his voice. For example, "Good Day" is a quiet, nostalgic piece with an optimistic look to the future, in which his voice sounds confident and smooth. In this song, he's like a modern Dickens, creating vivid and interest­ing characters and drawing us into his world. How's this for a hit of nostalwa? 
News ofthe world, tea and biscuits in bed. 
Yesterday I took a shower 
This tainted look at dentists is played up to the max. Paul's doctor character is tense, impatient, and not very dedicated to his work. For instance, the chorus goes "Rip rip! Rip 'em out now! Rip rip! We're gonna rip 'em out now!" Not too subtle. And if you listen carefully, you can hear the patient asking the dental assistant what she's doing after the operation. You'll crack up. "Gary's Got a Boner" is pretty self­explanatory, and morals dictate that I not go any further into details. It's sufficient to say that it is really funny. And the Replacements even give partial songwriting credit to Ted Nugent, whose "Cat Scratch Fever" riff they obviously stole. 
They do perform one legitimate cover version onLetIt Be, and that is Kiss' "Black Diamond." This choice is kind ofa bow to Kiss, who really didn't make lousy music at the start oftheir career. Kiss helped to form the Replacements' trashy sense of music taste; Kiss was, at the beginning, just a garage band like the Replacements. The Replace­ments play "Black Diamond" as it's meant to be played -very loose. Gone are Peter Criss's operatic tendencies. Gone are the droning guitar chords at the end. This is minimalist garage rock. Chris Mars' drumming is perfect, and the Stin­son brothers do it right, too. Paul Westerberg's singing comes close to masterpiece quality. At one point, he sings the word "thumb," as in "they got you under their...", in a way that I wish I could frame. This song is done so well, it doesn't even sound like a cover version. Quite impressive. 

As you might have guessed, I really like this album. I think that only Bruce Springsteen's Born in the U.SA. surpasses it as the best album of 1984.LetItBe hits home in so many ways that it is hard to resist. It is both tender and hard­rocking, and always inspired. Bands of this caliber are rare, and they represent the small minority of good American rock 'n' roll bands. See if you can findLet It Be where you live, and ifyou can't, please write their record company at: Twin/Tone Records, 445 Oliver Ave. So., Minneapolis, MN 55405. 
The headline says that Diana is 
dead. She couldn't act much, butsheput on a show. 

She always smiled, even when she felt low. I used tofancy hera long timeago. 
That last line is delivered in a quiet, confidential voice, as if he's whispering it in our ears. Later, he states that "Today is gonna be a good day." He's going to make it a good day. Ray loves the past, but always keeps an eye on the future. 
Musical pleasantry and fine he becomes too sentimental. The song is very short, but stands out as one ofRay Davie's great mistakes. 
The album bounces back with "Summer's Gone," a song which seems contradictory in theme to "Good Day" but is interesting musi­cally. "Going Solo" is a brilliant piece of music, a song as good as any he's done in the eighties, with the possible exception of "Too Hot." 
Even Dave, in the two songs he's written for the album, appears in fine form here. His song "Guilty," 

lyricism meet in the album's greatest success, "Too Hot." Ray complains here ofthe intensifica­tion ofcity life, the building pre­ssures which confront the individual, which he humorously links to the recent "workout" craze. 
Sleazy toum gets me doum. Want 
somepeace and quiet. 
Thepoliceare everywhere, like 
there's gonna be a riot. 
But back at the gymnasium, they're 
trainingfor a war. Think ofall thefun we bad in 
1984. 
The one great weakness in the album is the song "Missing Per­sons." Ray mawkishly sings ofthe departure of Chrissie Hynde. Al­though his personal approach is almost always effective, in this song like "Sold Me Out," is weak in itself 

but is strengthened by great guitar 
work. His other song, "Uving on a Thin Une," is good simply because it sounds much like Ray's work. His voice is dropped down from its usual screech in this work and its theme recalls some of the group's work from the sixties, with refer­ences to "kings in days ofold," reminiscent of"Victoria." 
The Kinks make great music as they have for over twenty years. It's the personality ofRay Davies that makes the group a legend in its own time. He's an extremely likeable person and a terrific showman. It is this warm, absorbing personality that has kept the Kinks musically active and important after two decades ofwork. 

\ 
~i~~~_()__i_ll___t________________Th_u_rsd-ay_,J_anu-ar_y~31-,l-98-5~p-ag_e_10 
Sharon vs. Time sets a dangerous precedent 
A few days ago, a landmark case involving journalism was settled. After digesting a 64­page charge and deliberating for considerable time, a jury ruled that Time magazine, while 
John Perez 
just wondering 
negligent in checking the accuracy of its reporting, had not libeled former Israeli Defense Minister Ariel Sharon in a Feb. 21, 1983 cover story regarding an official Israeli government report on the 1982 mass murder of several hundred Palestinian refugees in Beirut, Lebanon. 
The $50 million lawsuit centered on one paragraph in the eight-page story. The passage stated that "Sharon told (Lebanese officials) that he expected (military) forces to go into the refugee camps and . _ _that there was a need to take revenge for" the then-recent as­sassination ofLebanese President-elect Rashir Gemayel. In effect. alkged Sharon, the Time story implied that he bore "indirect responsi­bility" for the massacre and thus tarnished his reputation. 
The trial itself was extremt"ly unu~ual, as both plaintiff and defendant claimed that Is­raeli security measures denied them access to information vital to their respective cases_ An­other oddity was the fact that the jury, instead of returning a guilty or not-gulity verdict, had to rule on three issues: First, could the aforementioned passage be interpreted as defaming Sharon? Second, was the content of the paragraph false? Finally, did Time print the item with a "high level of awareness" of its falsity? The jury answered "yes" to the first 
two, "no" to  the third. The magazine  was  
found not guilty.  
Regardless  of  the  outcome,  the  

Sharon/Time case sets a dangerous precedent. Every time a politician, foreign or domestic, disagrees with something reported by the news media, he could conceivably sue and then orchestrate the suppression of evidence on "security" grounds. "I don't see why (controversial Libyan leader) Muammar Khadaffi can't sue and then say every piece of evidence is a state secret," said Time Inc.'s chief defense counsel Thomas Barr. 
This entire debacle calls into question the role ofthe news media in today's world. In my opinion it has never changed: to inform the general public about what is going on and how it affects them_ Granted, modern technol­ogy has drastically changed the methodology of news-gathering over the years, but the ul­timate objective remains the same. Ofcourse, the media is obligated to accomplish this task in as objective and impartial manner as possi­ble. 
The journalistic profession has always been largely self-regulating_ Does the Sharon case, and others similar to it like Weshnoreland vs. CBS, mean that the media needs more regula­tion? Do we need a watchdog agency to keep an eye over the press?Absolutely not! 
Let's face it: public figures such as generals, presidents and dictators are all adults now. They're heavy hitters in the na­tional/international spotlight. They're in the big leagues now. Assuming that the press satisfies its responsibility to be fair, accurate and impartial, these public figures have noth­ing to snivel and whine about. By doing so, they only succeed in showing their childish nature to the world, sort of like the Little Leaguer who threatens to go home and take the only baseball bat unless he gets to bat leadoff and play whatever position he wants. 
Public figures are exactly that: public. Everyone should be accountable for their ac­tions. Why should such persons be any differ­ent? IfSharon had asked me for advice, I would have made it brief: grow up. 
john Perez is a junior accounting major at 
Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint colum­
nist. 

P.O.BoxQ 
Mother Theresa is a blessing not a curse 
Dear Editor: 
Ann Pettifer's column on Mother Theresa and the Bhopal disaster made me realize how easily a person's actions can be misconstrued by the ignorant. Pettifer begins by saying Mother Theresa is a pup­pet of the Indian government and then proceeds to tell usJesus Christ denounced capitalism. After this, she refutes the Church's authority to create dogma and doctrine and ends by telling us that spiri­tual attributes such as piety and charity are doomed to become extinct. Her untruths are so numerous that I can only address the more blatant ones. 
First, Pettifer states, "Mother Theresa is an example ofa Catholic spirituality which has divided and betrayed the vigorous con­frontation with power thatJesus displayed and which took him to the cross." Jesus vigorously confronted people who used their religiousposition to amass power and wealth along with the people who dese­crated the temple. But he treated the other wealthy and politically powerful people with the same love and understanding with which he treated the crippled, poor, or­phaned and widowed. It was not Jesus' confrontation with power that took him to the cross but mankind's sins such as mur­der, stealing, lying, adultery, sodomy and abortion_ 
Second, Pettifer deqounces the Church's ability to create dogma and doctrine. She says, "The Gospel, properly preached, is matchless." We must realize the Church is built on both the Gospel and tradition -tradition which is manifested by dogma and doctrine. The Gospel is beauti­ful but, as is obvious in the Protestant religions, if it is your sole source offaith it can become splintered into numerous in­terpretations by many people and contain no prescription by which to guide your life. Yes, the Church is structured into a hierarchy, but it is a necessary hierarchy used to administer the sacraments of Christ. Christ sanctioned this hierarchy when he gave Peter the keys ofthe Church. 
Third, Peuifer spews on about the lack of female role models in the church, and the clergy's endless obsession "concerning the state of Mary's hymen." She obviously has no understanding of Mary's prophetic role in the history of the Church. Mary, a female, was the greatest human being to have ever lived. Throughout history -at Lourdes, Mt. Carmel and Fatima-she has 
made God's wishes known to mankind. She is the Queen of Heaven and it is her life of obedience, piety and chasity which has shaped the model for all religious people and laity to follow. Her following of Christ's example gives hope to all mankind to live as Christ taught us to live. Mary was also the only person to have been consumed bodily into heaven. 
Pettifer ends her article by saying, "To end on a more hopeful note-it is becoming increasingly clear that Mother Theresa's spirituality will take its place eventually alongside the dinosaur." Well, I hope the day never comes when God no longer blesses us with examples such as Mother Theresa and the stigmatists Padre Pio and Bro. Gino to give us hope in this world. 
Paul Douglas Morrissey Hall 

Boudreax unaware of what ND offers 
Dear Editor: 
I am disturbed by an article that Charles Boudreaux wrote for Tbe Observer on Jan_ 
28. He speaks out rather strongly against the University of Notre Dame's annual plea for funds, denouncing Father Hesburgh's description ofthe administration as "active agents in Notre Dame's destiny," and "co­creators." 
I would like to know from whom Bou~aux thinks he is getting his educa­tion_ He refers to the appeal for donations as "false advertising." I would therefore refer to Boudreaux's degree upon gradua­tion as false advertising -ifthe University is as superficial as he seems to think. 
As a senior, I can look back on my four years here and recognize administration policies and actions with which I disagree. However, the education which I have 
received, both intellectually and emotion­
ally, allow me to put those dissentions into 
perspective. I am more aware ofinjustices 
and values than ever before. Moreover, I 
feel prepared to face the "real" world. I 
strongly resent being referred to as "a 
forty-thousand-dollar sheepskin glossed 
over with social service and moral or ethi­
cal platitudes." The person I have become 
is something I can be proud of, and I owe 
that in part to Notre Dame. Boudreaux is 
obviously unaware of the major social and 
ethical effects Notre Dame and its 
graduates have had upon this world. 
The University is not run by parents, nor by students, nor by the administration. It is ·a unique combination ofall three that per­mits a learning environment permeated by 
spiritual discovery and growth. And 
regardless of how it is run, it cannot be 
done without money. This is, quite simply, 
a fact. The donations that Notre Dame 
receives are not required dues; they are money put forth by people who under­stand this school's unsurpassed specialness and unique atmosphere. Does Boudreaux plan to drain the University ofeverything it has to offer, then leave with an education most people can only dream of, without so much as a goodbye or a thank you? It would not surprise me. My father would call him a hypocritical opportunist -and so would I. 
Trlcia Booker Farley Hall 
If you have an opinion, why not share it? 
Ifyou would like to respond to something you've read In The Observer, wby not write a letter to tbe editor. Letters should be well· written, typed, no more than 250 u'Of'ds In lengtb and must bear tbe signature oftbe au­thor. Letters wblcb are notsignedby tbeauthor will not bepublisb«J. 
Letters to tbe edltOf' can be mailed to The Observer. P.O.Box Q. NQtre Dame, Ind. 46556. or thllverfld to ettber our Notre Dame o.lftce In LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office In Haggar College Center. 


The Observer reserves tbe rlgbt to edit all materllll sul1mitted to tbe VIewpoint depart­ment/Of'publication. 
Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P_Q. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Ed1tor·in-Ch1ef. . .  . Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager. .  Dave Taiclet  
Managmg Ed1tor  . Mark Worscheh  Controller .  . . Dave Stephenitch  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  News Ed1tor .  . Sarah Hamilton  Advertising Manager ..  . .. Anne Culligan  
University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor . .  . Dan McCullough  Clfculation Manager.  . . Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news IS reported as  Saint Mary's Ed1tor ..... Anne Monastyrsk1  Systems Manager  . Mark B. Johnson  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opin1on  Sports Ed1tor..  . M1chael Sullivan  Product1on Manager  . Chns Bowler  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the lns1de Column  V1ewpomt Ed1tor .  . ... Dave Grote  ProJect Manager  ... Amy Stephan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the  Features Ed1tor . .  . ... Mary Healy  
community, and the free expression of varying op1nions on campus, through letters.  Photo Ed1tor. . .  . . Pete Laches  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  

------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------~-­
The Observer Thursday, January 31, 1985 -page 11 
Classifieds 
The Obserr•er Notre Dame oltke, IO<:ated on the..· third floor of Lafortune Student Centc::r. au:epts dassifit:d advcrti!>ing from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m .. Monday through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary's offke, located on the:: third floor of Haggar College Ct:ntt:r, an:ept!> dassified!> from 12:~0 p.m. until 3 p.m . Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must bt: prepaid. either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 n·nts per fivt: charac..-­ters ·r dav. 

Three business majors, including Kolin MARDI GRAS If Fr. Ted is gonna be in Ft. Lauderdale
FOUND ON JR CLASS SKI TRIP: URGENT' Need Syracuse Tixl! call1584 with a "K" request lhe pleasure of your MARDI GRAS during Spring Break, I'm going to N­
ONE PAIR OF RED I SKI SUNGLASSES
NOTICES HELP.....NE.ei:'):ro·rix.FoR.svRAcu'se company at a social gathering lhis Friday MARDI GRAS York, Sony SAB.
PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 1150. in room 129 Alumni. No engineering MARDI GRAS 
CALL ED 1A18 IT's SCRUNCHIER! 
majors need attened. MARDI GRAS EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 
This ad sponsored by those sexy furniture dancers at the McCandless Have 5 SYRACUSE G.A.s. Will sell 
If you discovered a BLACK GREEK FIS. cheap. Call Fran 2596 FRENCH CLUB MEETING tonita at 6:30 
Beach party (one party is never enough N.D.'s own Mardi Gras is coming!!! NEED TYPING, CALL DOLORES 2n-in the Uttle Theatre of La Fortune. Don't
HERMAN'S CAP in LA FORTUNE Tues­
day night, please return it to CHARLES at NEED 2 STUD OR GA FOR SYRACUSE for those SMC chicks) February 8th & 9th 
6045 forget. ..TONITE.
117 CAVANAUGH or cell 1373. CALL JOANNE 2800 
PICK UP AND DELIVERY ..... ' ..... ''' .................................. ····· ........
THANKS! lost: Wild pizza cup believed to have tal· Venez taus a Ia reunion du Cercle Fran­
len out of a third floor LeMans window. " Mardi Gras Dance-A· Thon TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 cais ce soir a 18h30 dans le "Petit
found please call Jan Farrell17n. featuring: The Danger Bros. 
LOST:WOMAN'S PETITE ND CLASS Theatre" de La Fortune. Vive le francais! 
RING. GOLD WITH BLUE STONE INI· TIALS, KMK, INSIDE. THIRD FLOOR Next time remember-
Friday, February 8th PERSONALS Ute is a never-ending iHuston ... 
TYPING AVAILABLE LAFORTUNE. PLEASE CALL KATHY 287-4082 4071! 
IT'S RYSER, OR IT'S WRONG !!!!! Airband/Talent Contest YOU GOnuM KEENAN REVUE TIX, WE GOTTUM DATEII Me Bob. you Girl.
LOST: a gold Citizen watch on Sunday TICKETS: Need TWO tickets for the Big Prizes 
ooooooooooo••••oooouon•ooooooooouooooooooooooooooooooooouooo 
When is this teat ever going to end? 
Me no got no tix. We wantum go real bad. 

TYPING Jan. 27, somewhere between Zahm and Syracuse game. I need these MARDI GRAS Weekend JACKIE BOGGS the North Dining Hall. If found, please call SAVE MONEY!! PURCHASE YOUR desperately!!! My girlfriend is corning up Sign ups start on Friday in the Dining Halls You go, me go, we havum fun. You callum 684-8793 Tom at 1244 and will kill me (not to mention things she 1CJ67 before Great Sun rises in East
TEXTS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 WON'T do ) if I don't get these tickets.
SOUTH BEND AVE.,NEXT TO CORBY'S YOU GOnuM KEENAN REVUE TIX,
found: 1 pair of blue and grey glovas in Please help out a fellow .Domer who KEENANITES(esp. Bonga Cr-)Best hasn't seen his beautiful girlfriend in a wishes with the Revue! Love, Boatman WE GOTTUM DATE!I Me Bob, you Girl.
BAA. 233-2342. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS appli­356 Fitz. Call4223 
long, LONG time!! Call Danat2275today! Me no got no tilC. We wantum go real bad.
cation deadline is February 1. More info at MAKE MONEY !! SELL YOUR CLASS You go, me go, we havum fun. You callum Center for Social Concerns! 
BOOKS TO PANDORA'S FOR $$ OR 1CJ67 before Great Sun rises in East. 
CREDIT ! PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 PRQ-TYPE Computerized typing service 
SO.BENDAVE. 233·2342. 
Beth H., I'd like to cordially invite you to

2n-se33 
FOR RENT our "social gathering" Fri. nile. Hopefully 
HIGGINS : You're a go--mn discrace! Chickenman won't show up. John 
............................................... OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, YOU GOTTUM KEENAN REVUE TIX,
FUN.AND HARD WORK WITH KIDS AS CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., You're just worthless and week Now drop WE GOTTUM DATE!! Me Bob, you Girl. CAMP COUNSELOR. YMCA STORER and give me 20!! What do you want to do 
Me no got no tix. We wantum go real bad. 

ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. with your life anyway? Remember· Al· Aviation Andy, INEFFABLE at the new
CAMPS IS CARING, CHRISTIAN COM· male roommate wanted to share apart· You go, me go, we havum fun. You callum COHOI... ABUSE IS NOT PRETTY!! 
hair! Rambo 

MUNrt-y SERVING KIDS 7-17. UNIQUE ment, CAMPUS VIEW APTS. call 277-1067 before Great Sun rises in East. PROGRAMS: HORSES, AQUATICS. 4833 
CCCChhhhhyyyaaaaaaaammmmpppp­Deposits for the Student Activities Board
SAILING, WILDERNESS ADVENTURE. NO band members: Please bend over one
iiioooonnnsss!! 
Ski Trip to Winter Park, Colo. will be col­

INTERNATIONAL EMPHASIS. FOR WANTED. A ROOMMATE TO SHARE more time. Sincerely, The Administration 
Who you gonna cail-FLQ-MONSTEA!! 
lected tonight from 7 -8pm in front of Littte

FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: APARTMENT 2A, AT NOTRE DAME Yo Flo & B.O. : O.C. ts the place to be next 
Theater. If you are sure you are going,ANN WIEDEMANN AT 283·3032 APATMTS. BLDNG. 832. RENT OF year. Yo Flo! You're getting your letters all JAMIE-DON'T MUMBLE WHEN YOU
place your deposit tonight to save your ·············· ..... ONLY 105/MONTHLY. CALL JOE wrong. The key letters for next year are LIE. -MO&CP
spot. Call Eric 2n-4617 or Joe 3296.

AN OFF-CAMPUS BOWLING LEAGUE MCBRIDE AT 283-1723 
not A.A., but rather O.C .. It's where youIS BEING FORMED ON TUESDAY JAMIE-IT'D NEVER STAND UP IN
belong!!! 
To the rowdy women of 421 MC··

NIGHTS AT 9PM. CALL 289-5379 OR SPRING BREAK IS COMING..__ , ... ARE COURT. -M&CP 
Maneater, Buggs, Mirror Lady, and272·0734 FOR SIGNUPS AND INFOR· 

YOU READY?! AVOID THE RUSH AND SENIOR SKI TRIP TO SUGAR LOAF 
Scoop--beware of an invasion from

MATION. DEADLINE IS SATURDAY, JAMIE-WE CAN'T HEAR YOU. ·M&C 
PLAN NOW FOR A WONDERFUL MOUNTAIN!! SPOTS STILL AVAILABLE 
Wildwood, Ill. Remember the policy!! EN·FEB.2 WEEK IN STEAMBOAT SPRINGS, MARCH 1 ,2,3 $25.00 DEPOSIT SENIOR DAD JAMIE·BA HA HA HA!!!!!! ·M&C
WANTED COLORADO .. -S. PADRE 15-CLASS OFFICE-·1.5 LAFORTUNE 
The New York Times! Its not too late to LAND.... CORPUS CHRISTI...OR, 
MON-FRI 6·9 . 
To Tammy and Sheila: Wihy don't you just 

subscribe to the New York Times. Contact BEACH! OF LIAA,LIAR, PANTS ON FIRE. 
DAYTONA PLENTY move to the 4th floor? 
George Devenny 145 Stanford 283·2094 REASONABLE PACKAGES ARE BEST TIME·BEST WHERE:
VALUE: Needed: one roommate to live O.C. next WAITING. CALL RENE FOR MORE VALENTINES .. .VALENTINES
DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING Patty Szeezil·· Is LITE Beer really that
year in a 6-room house ... Rent: $80 plus INFO. AT 1190. ... VALENTINES 
BREAK '85. WHO: All ND/SMC STU· good before an exam??
utilities...To qualify you must be a Sun 
DENTS. CALL 239-51~6 OR STOP BY Belt-type person who hates the winter and 
SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1.5 
Q. Why do the Hogs cross the frozen lakeloves the beach and surt ... Must like to lis· ANDI, We love you. 

LAFORTUNE. MON-FAI, 6-9pm. Dear NO Band HaHaHa! We did it to you 
in groups??

LOST/FOUND 
ten to the Beach Boys and Jan & Dean ... 
again! First there was Hawaii, but "Aloha" A. To increase their mortality rate ! ! 

Gall 2577 and ask for Le ... 
WANTED: FEMALE ROOMATE FOR to that! Too much money'(can't deplete ....................... Larry, You say all the right things. the 
O.C. CALL POZ 2295 the ol' endowment Heaven forbid) And LOST: One tear-shaped gold earring be· NEED RIDERS TO PENN STATE loved one 
then we found something better to take tween lewis and the Credit Union... If. LEAVE: FEB. 1st 
DANA BAINBRIDGE, EARL BAKER, away, Mardi Gras! To handle it though
Oooga....pooga....noogall

found please call Anne 2624 RETURN: FEB. 3rd or 4th the loved one is on the loose ...O BILL BARTLETT, JENNIFER BIGOTT, took more thought ·cause it would not cost 
CALL BRIAN AT 3499 or 3200 
CINDY BOYLE, CAROL BROWN, LIZ a thing. Lord knows (and we asked him)LOST Rhinestone necklace on Sat night, "All freshmen are to be eaten." 
CARROL, MARY DALUM, ANNE GAL­we can't allow any fun to occur, so we the 19. PLEASE HELP !!!! 
M.B.V.· Let's get together this

LAGHER, JOHN GIBBS, MATT ceme up with academics! A lame excuse 
$$$$REWARD$$$$ Gall Cindy at 272-Riders needed to Cleveland for this weekend,o.k.? give me a call. -your
GRACIANETTE, KRISTI HEFT, BOB but what can you expect from a bunch of 6084 weekE'nd. Call sean at 277-3953. The wind· freezes my nose. as well as HENKE, VERA HILLEGASS, KATHY Purple Rain friend deans! Wait till you see what's in store for everything in it. HUMM, BARB STEVENS, BYRON you ne~<t year...Tokyo,Bowl trip. maybe
HELP! REWARD' LOST MY Without death there would be no life ...
STEVENS, AND SCOTT VAN PELT • even Elkarht! Be sure to sign upand stand 
..·........t:................................................... . 

CHRISTMAS GIFT! I LOST MY LADIES AIDE NEEDED We need a roommate for next year.. 
pleaH '" Shirley In The Observer by your school(saps)! Yours In Notre
THE LOFT-Y CONCEPTS 1 CONCEPT 

GOLD WATCH FRI. NIGHT, POSSIBLY Great OC house... You must love the sun· ASAP. 
Dame Ted and the boys! 

AT THE SUBURBS CONCERT. PLEASE If you are going to I.U. Bloomington this shine(sopmething we don't have in 1: ALWAYS LIE TO WOMEN.THEY CALL WANDA ]4058.HELP! weekend, either 2/1 or 2/2 and returning SB)...A collection of Beach Boys and WANT YOU TO. CONCEPT 2: AT TIMES TO THE BEAUTIFUL brunette at the 9IT IS BENEFICIAL TO LIE TO YOUR­
......................... 2/3, please call Louisa at 1330. Jan&Dean albums is a must... Call Le at movie Tues nile wearing white LOST: Blue NO Bag.Contains 2 Sharp 2577 for further info SELF.
CAMPUS CRUSADE for the CLAVE turtleneck,silting against left wall:l caught calc~lators (scientific and solar). pencils RIDE NEEDED Who still participates in silly candelmas 
your eye there and would ~ke to catch it and pens.Lost probably at Dining FRANK SINATRA does not write for ntuals ??? What South Bend needs is the Thank you, St. Jude, for prayers again soon-CHRIS 3117 Halls,Galvin, or Stepan Chem. on Viewpoint • but you can. The Viewpoint Sunbl!ne!! Join the Clave today l!! ans-ered. 
................•...........•.......•..•.•.•.........•.....•... 

December 21.Prove me wrong that ND RIDE NEEDED TO COLOMBUS, depanment is currently seeking regular ATTENTION ALL OFF-CAMPUS-ITES:Thank you, St. Jude. 
students are thieves and return to NO Lost OHIO/OSU THIS WEEKEND. CALL columnists. If you are a Notre Dame or In appreciation to St. Jude for the answer· WE'RE HAVING A VALENTINE'S DAY and Found or Call Tom at 1524 after 1oam NOAMA2808. . Saint Mary's student and can elCpress you ing of special intentions. May all know the DANCE ON FRIDAY, FEB.8,1985 AT MWF or after 2:30pm on weekends. opinions clearly, Viewpoint needs you. If power of his prayers. 
THE AMERICANA YOU CAN PUR· Need Ride or Riders to U of I interested call Dave Grote at 239-5303. 
Q 1: Would you stick your finger in a CHASE YOUR TICKETS FOR $10 AT 

Lost: A pair of NIKES (Mid-tops) Basket· (Champagne) for 2/1 to 2/3. Call Candice MARCH 1985 AN EVENT
ON 15, leaking Dyke? Q 2: Would your finger get THE REECORD STORE IN ball shoes. White with blue and red atSMC 5261. Help educate a child who is unable to 
COULD OCCUR WHICH WOULD LaFORTUNE. FOR INFO. CALL RACE stripes. last seen at the mens locker learn himself! Join the Neighborhood CHANGE THE COURSE OF HISTORY. 
wet? 
272-0734. 

room at the Rock. If found please call Cliff CHICAGO Study Help Program and tutor in the THE MARTIANS COULD LAND. PRESI­LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: We were at 1436. NEED A RIDE TO DOWNTOWN South Bend community. We need tutors, DENT REAGAN COULD RESIGN. FA­snowed out last week, but don't despair; All O.C. STUDENTS: THE UNOB· CHICAGO OR THEREABOUTS. NEED We need you! Many times available. THER HESBURG COULD BE this week we will be prepared. SATUR· SERVED should BE COMING IN YOUR Lost: Gold and blue add-a-bead necklace. TO LEAVE FRIDAY AFTER 4PM. Transportation provided. Call Debbie CANONIZED. Well, we really don't know 
DAY at 9 am, we need everyone back for MAILBOX... IF NOT, PLEASE PICK UP 

Very sentimental in value. If found call PLEASE PLEASE CALL LISA VERY Doherty--3563, Annie Shaughnessy •• if these events will take place, but we do REC. prepared THIS VITAL DOCUMENT AT THE OBUD 
SNOW Come (dress

Laura at 2732. REWARD. EARLY IN THE MORNING OR VERY 4234, or Seymour Pigott-1580 for more know that THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES warmly) for TUBING and FUN in the DESK IN LaFORTUNE. 
VERY LATE IN THE EVENING. PLEASE info. It's not just a job. it's an adventure! BOARD WILL BE OFFERING TRIPS TO 
SNOW. N-Volunt..,.. Welcome II 

FOUND: A lady's watch in A.C.C. before KEEP TRYING TO CALL BECAUSE SHE FT. LAUDERDALE AND DAYTONA J. westonTHEGOODYEARBLIMP. 
Christmas Break. To claim call Mike at IS NOT HOME TOO MUCH! (SHE GOES Tired of the Notre Dame Alphabet? A BEACH1 These quality trips will include TO THE BARS WAY TOO OFTEN) CHANGE IS COMING !!
2122 St. Pa1ricks Day celebrations. scuba THANKS!!!!! THE PHONE NUMBER IS divtng, baseball, and endless fun activi­LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: We were 283-3033. ties all for $299 and $199, respectively. snowed out last week. but don't despair: 
ATTENTION! TWO SENIOR GIRLS

Call SAB or inquire at the Record Store for this week we will be prepared. SATUR­
Buzzard A-rd Winner: LOVE TAl-MIL BALLS. FOR TWO FUN
RIDERS needed to DAYTON 2fl·10 more information. DAY at 9 am, we need everyone back for 
LOST MAROON AND GRAY PLAID 
Uttle Kings and the statement "I won't DATES CALL MARY AT 2851 AND
Dave 256-6676 SNOW REC. Come prepared (dress
WOOL SCARF WED IN LAFORTUNE 
pass out." KATIE AT 2935. YOU WON'T REGRET
warmly) for TUBING and FUN in theOR THURS. MORNING IN SOUTH 

Guess the jokes on you. IT!
WANTED: one housemate for Campus SNOW. N-Volunt..,.. Welcome I!
DINING HALL. PLEASE CALL2116 
The Psychologist

View Apts. next year. Must be casual & DO PALM TREES, TROPICAL "BLUE-EYES" B·DAY QUOTES: 'BUT
laid back but not a couch potatoe. Call Warning to Slater Jo: BEWARE!! FRAN
LOST: GREEN SWEATER IN CUSHING, BREEZES, AND WARM STARRY 
SIR. I'M TIPLESS!': 'DOESN'T THAT ROOM 208 IF FOUND, CALL JOHN AT NIGHTS BAING OUT THE ROMANTIC
Mike ]2n-38n or Steve ]1509. LUND will be celebrating her 20th 
Blondie: Help! I see you everyday. I want GUY HAVE A NICE SMILE?' : -ITCH!
birthday today. HIDE YOUR SHOES I 

2196 NO QUESTIONS ASKED IN YOU? THEN GO WITH THE STU·
to meet you. Desc: Blond, stunning, blue (SMILE)'!!! HAPPY B·DAY HAEF! LOVE, 
DENT ACTIVITIES BOARD, "THE
··············· eyes, GREAT LEGS, cute laugh, YOUR J.l. PARTNER. 
FOUND: Silvar ring at the Rock over LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT" TO FT. Brian. Durbs, Greg, Jim, Jon, Pato. and 
sometimes wears a West Point shirt. Wiho Seas: Good Luck in the Review tonight.
the WMkend. Call John at 2063 and LAUDERDALE AND DAYTONA BEACH. 
are you? 
BREAK A BANANA' love, Mary and

ldantlty to claim. SAB offers the most quality for the lowest OH, VALENTINE! 
FOR SALE 
Catherinepnce. $299 and $199 respectively. CallHUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB

LOST: A ladies' Pulsar watch with a blue SAB or inquire at the Record Store for
272-4453 FREE DELIVERY MQ-TH 8-BMt the ruat~..-.come up to The 
band and a gold face. Lost sometime 11pm FA-SA 8pm-1 am more info. Obeer-ter and place your Valantlne'a Friday afternoon. If found please call Usa TO All OF YOU WHO EAT AT 
Dey ~ thla WMk. We've aet

For sale; AE·1 Program with auto
at 2998. LAFORTUNE: PIGS DON'T CLEAN UP allele a apeclal category Juat for you to
winder,no lense.very good condition PRINCESS Dl, FATHER HESBUAG, AFTER THEMSELVES. ARE YOU 
get rMI gooey with your hMI'tthrob.

$180; call Vic 234-6715 after 10 p.m.
LOST: A Black and Whlta Siberian ROBERT REDFORD AND EVERY PIGS? 
The apeclal dey Ia Thuract.y, Fab. 14, Huaky. Age 5 montha. Welgha 45-50 OTHER CELEBRITY OF WHOM YOU 
but avoid long llnesandc:omeln today.

KASTLE AX TEAM Racing Skis(190's) 1
pounda. Anawwa to the name CAN THINK ARE GATHERING ON Dear Mrs. Goodfreoch, If you are what
Is anyone going to the University of Iowayear old. Will sell for $125 (Orig.$225)call 
"SHINDIG". Loet on 1·27-851n tha arM MARCH 15' WHERE IS THIS GATHER· you use. then you certainly are not
this weekend? I need a nde. Please call 
3008
of Eut ta~varra Street. If apotted, lo­lNG GOING TO TAKE PLACE? FT. deodorant. Love, MR. GOODWENCH 
Marg~e SMC 4294. ctlted, or found plaaM cati Deveat 232· LAUDERDALE AND DAYTONA BEACH! 
Suzanne·

FOR SALE TRANSAUDIO BELT
07311. HOW CAN YOU GET THERE? Remeber the Ski TMn Tryoutl? lloned Tequilla? Apple Barrel? 1-31-64 mayDRIVEN TURNTABLE W/0 THROUGH THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES my brown a-terto aome guy on tha be your Big Day but some know it's really CTG.CHEAP CALL BEAVER 2225 BOARD. It is always possible that the van and I ct~n't ramember your name. H 7-14-21!! 
······················ TO:BETHC­stars could cancel their gathenng, but you have It pleue call Karan at x2145. Girls Girls Girls Fu"ill Your Every Fantasy WANTTOVISfTTHE FUN, QUALITY AND PRICE make it Thanka. With N.D.'s Sexiest Stripper ...DAVE
LOST Single Strand PEARL NECKLACE worthwhile to go anyway. Call SAB or the PLEASE, PLEASE Call Jodie 1669 ! SALTZMAN 1894 .. $1.19and up Free lor WASHINGTON MONUMENT? Record Store for more info. Suzanne· M.J.F.,K.D.,C.A.B BBD FRATERNITY The men of BBD Only the best for you!! Happy 21st! LOST Black trench coat at Corby's on (555 FEET PLUS!) ALL WAITING FOR SMC Ann and Holly The never ending 
wish TOM MALL a happy Birthday' All the 

Jan. 14. It had all ol my I.D.s in it so please YOU AND A FOUR· YEAR-OLD WITH A nightmare of Pangborn freshmen -the sexy women of ND/SMC are invited to Love, return as soon as possible. Reward of· THING FOR INANIMATE OBJECTS!! Cabbie help him celebrate this Saturday at THE Nak, Sara, KJ fered. Call Kay at 2903 or 2939. ···············
PARTY in 818 Grace. Maureen Emy was 20 yesterday. HAPPY ·The hottest chick north of Havana!! 
TICKETS I've been /yin' to myseff It's them and BIRTHDAY!! Sorry this is late. Hope you The girls from lyons want everyone to noone else Tha SOOPER BAND WASTE had a great day! LOST: MY SANITY!! CAN BE FOUND IN know that ANDY PANDY. 3 Sorin, is our JOHN--Thought the male/female ratio BAND This Fri nite • 11 pm • Nazz Compe-COLUMBUS, OHIO AT OSU. IF YOU man, and we love to snuggle next to our was three males to one female. not four tition love, ,CAN HELP ME GET THERE THIS HELP! Need 3 Syracuse vs NO ttckets. bear. females to one male Got any beads left? Shadubeh M&l WEEKEND OR ANY OTHER Please call Terry at 1991' Someone told me Father C. wants you to 
WEEKEND. PLEASE CALL NORMA AT YO FAE, What?? No reverse paper?? give him some more. Wihy were all those Yo Gang HAPPY BIATHDA Y MAUREEN ERNY! 2808. THANKS!! BIG BUCKS need 4 SYRACUSE stud tix Sorry about that. cheat meat. (You may people out in the hall? Congratulate Congrats to all on comps. Somehow we 
call Mark x 1204 quote me). Oaire--she won her bet! When do we hit all managed to puU it off. To Cara. Trish. LAURAFARR LOST pr. of SALOMON SKI BOOTS tn d1 the Morris Inn? and Melis, thanks for all the support. Good Thanks lor saving my almost disasterous student lot Mon. afternoon Gall Mark at GO AHEAD. MAKE MY DAY' I need 1 tix Thank you Anne M. for the Keenan reveiw luck on your cornps. We're behtnd you. b-day. You're the best roomie ever! Love, 1767 in 312 Dillon. THANKS! II for BYU or Wash. Matt 3718 tickets. You are too kind V.G. CHRIS 'STUD ·--underwear much? Love, T Mary 
········· ················ 
The Obserwr Thursday,january 31, 1985-page 12 



\ 
\ \ 
l \ 
} 
J' 
Gary Voce emerges from shadows to contribute much to Irish team 
ByPHRWOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 
It is hard to imagine a 6-9 person becoming lost in the shadow ofa six­footer, but when one considers that the shadow is that of David Rivers, a figure who stands larger than life on the Notre Dame basketball team, it is easier to picture. 
With all of the commotion sur­rounding the arrival of Rivers last fall, three other freshmen on the Irish squad were nearly forgotten. Among these three "forgotten" players was Gary Voce, a 6-9, 235­pounder from the Bronx, N.Y. 
Voce has accepted his role this year. A coach can ask for little more than a player who knows what is expected of him and then delivers on that ex­pectation as Voce has. 
"He's got to become a player for 
us," Phelps says. "The potential's 
there, and he's just got to get the 
game experience. By the time he's a 
junior, he should be able to step 
right in." 
That necessary playing time 
comes slowly, though, and Voce says 
sitting on the bench was the biggest 
adjustment he had to make coming 
to Notre Dame after starting on his 
high school team for three years. 
"I guess that's pretty hard to ac­cept at first," Voce says with an honesty that is manifest in his quiet tone, "but you just look down the road and see that everyone does it; you've got to go through it. So that's the role for this year, and next year I hope to be playing a lot more. And junior year it's up to me, I guess, be­cause there won't be anybody else in front of me." 
Voce seems to be at the age at which he is young enough to believe that he can do anything ifhe puts his mind to it and mature enough to ac­cept the criticism and limitations given him by his coaches. He modestly states that he thinks he is a good rebounder and inside scorer, but when asked about his weaknes­ses, he recites Phelps' criticisms. 
"My weakness is lack of consis­tency and aggressiveness sometimes," he says. "Coach says I fall into lapses and I can play hard for probably only a two-minute spurt. 
He says this, not me." 
Voce recognizes, however, the importance of impressing his coach with his ability and his effort. 
"Some games, I'll get in and find out that nothing's going right for the first two minutes or so," he explains. "And I'm not going to be in there for too long, so I hope that for the few minutes I'm in there, it's going to start working right off the bat." 
When things do fall into place for the big man, impressive things can happen, as he showed against St. Francis and Valparaiso. It seems as though Voce has a knack for corning up with a big play when he is in the game. Indeed, as Phelps points out, the native ofJamaica has a knack for the game of basketball, which he didn't begin playing until he was 13. 
NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS. ROOMMATES NEEDED! 
Boys and Girls
• 
• Call office 3-6 DAILY 234-6647
• 

Despite the fact that Rivers received most of the attention from the public early in the season, the Irish coaches knew that they had a player that they could count on in Voce. He has seen playing time in every one ofNotre Dame's 16 games so far this season. 
Voce has averaged only about nine minutes in those games, but he has learned to live with his role as a substitute player. He has come off the bench to lead the team in scoring on two occasions. He pumped in 17 points and grabbed 1S rebounds against St. Francis, and he led the Irish over Valparaiso with 14 points and 13 rebounds. Still, Voce knows that this is not his year to lead the team. 
"All I can really do this year," he admits, "is work as hard as I can at practice to help the team to get bet­ter and be ready when I'm called upon. I won't be the deciding factor in a game, but I can help the team win a game by practicing hard and helping to get the team pumped up." 
Head Coach Digger Phelps says he couldn't be happier with the way 
"This kid's a raw talent," Phelps says. "He wasn't, three years old, out there dribbling on the streets. He was out in Kingston, jamaica, having pina coladas." 
Although Phelps' account is em­bellished a little bit, the underlying point is clear: Voce still is at an early stage in his career. He certainly has come a long way since his friends in seventh grade tried to interest him in using his then 6-6 frame to play basketball, but his full potential is just now being tapped. It's just a mat­ter ofgetting game experience. 
So what of playing in the shadow of David Rivers? Does it bother Voce? No. 
In fact, Rivers and Voce have been good friends since they met last year. Rivers has nothing but praise for his classmate, and Voce sits back and takes it with a humble smile. 
Of course, it's only a matter of time before Voce could be regularly on the end of Rivers' fast-break passes. The two friends may eventu­ally cast quite a large shadow to­gether. 
CiO FORTHE GOLD. 
You've just about complered one big challenge-your 
degree. Ready for the next? Go for the gold. The gold bars 
of a Second Lieutenant in the Army. 

It's no picnic. O.C.S. (Officer Candidate School) is 
a)4-week challenge that will make you dig deep inside your­
self for mental and physical toughness. \Vhen you come 
out, you'U be trim, fit, a commissioned officer in the Army, 
and ready to exercise the leadership skills civilian com­
panies put such a premium on. 

Go for the gold. It could help you when you're ready 
to reach for the brass ring. 
SGT. dones (219) 234-4187 
ARMY. BEALLYOU CAM BE. 


PUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
Renting now for August of 1985 (1 and 2 bedroom furnished apartments) Additions to our indoor pool include: Exercise Equipment and Jacuzzi Spa 

*FOR INFORMATION 
CALL 

272-1441* 
Sports Briefs 
Two cross-country skiing clinics will be held today. Both clinics, one for beginners, and another for ad­vanced skiers, will be held at 7 p.m. in room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone Who has registered at the NVA office may attend. -Tbe Obseroer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting today at 7 p.m. on the first floor ofLaFortune. For more information, call Tim at 287-8264.-Tbe Obseroer 
The men's doubles racquetballtournament 
begins Sunday. Registered players should call the NVA office at 239­61 00 for their match times and court assignments. -Tbe Obbserver 
Lifeguard and lifesaving training courses will begin Sunday in the Rockne Memorial Building. The lifeguard train­ing course will begin at noon in the pool, and the lifesaving course will begin at 3 p.m. in room 318. For more information, call Brother Louis at 239-6321. -Tbe Observer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team dropped its meet at Miami of Ohio last night, 28-13. Winners for the 6-2 Irish were Guy Locksmith in the 126-pound class, John Krug in the 167­pound division, and Phil Baty in the 177-pound class. There will be a story on the meet in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer. 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
In Tuesday's interhall basketball action, Dillon moved into a two-way tie for first place in the ACC, while Grace remained unbeaten atop the Big Ten and Off-Campus earned its first win of the year in the Pac Ten. 
In a hard fought, overtime struggle, Dillon ( 4-1) was able to earn a share of the ACC leadership by defeating Alumni ( 2-3 ), 4 7-4 3. 
The win puts Dillon in a two-way tie with Flanner for first while the Alumni loss places it in sixth place. 
In the other ACC game, Zahm ( 3­

2) continued its winning ways with 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
it I 0-9 Irish. Senior guard Luther Burden came right down the floor and sank a I2-foot jumper with 8:27 left in the first half, giving St. Louis an I 1-10 lead, but the Billikens never led again. 
Nonetheless, Grawer felt com­fortable trailing by only four points with 4:36left in the game, 39-35. 
"We told our kids before the game 
Thursday,January 31, 1985 -page 13 

Grace leads Big Ten, tied for lead in ACC; Sorin still Pac Ten leader 
:r1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 II1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111..11111111111111111111 • I I IIIII IIIIII 
The Finance Qub Proudly Presents: The 27th Annual Finance Forum 
.Monday. Peb .f. 1985 .f:OO PM: 
Mr. Steven G. Rothmeier, Pres. &CEO, Northwest Airlines Inc. 
Tuesday. Peb. 5. 1985 .f:OOPM 
Mr. John K. Moore, Chairman &CEO, The Beach Bank 
Tuesday Peb. 5. 1985 7:30P.M Mr. John S. Poelker, Pres. & CFO, Citizens & Southern Georgia Corp. 
All presentations are in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Public Invited. 
• I 11111111111111111111111111111111111111 I 11111111111111111 I 1111111111 I II111111111111111111 I 111111111 Ill1111111 I IIIII I I 1111111 I I II 1111111111111111111111111111111•••••••••••• •11111111111 Ill II II II. 

INVE"TORY 
REDOCTIOH SALE 
I ( · ./~ JAMISON JIISN WMISUY
\' .....:__ a"oil 
~ . ~ 
-. ..! ' 
-J'
·"'/ I \ i ~~.;~ PASSPOIT Ol USHIIS CAUIITGIN lio.. ...... StiTCH 
YOUR CHOICE -I 75 l
17Sl ~ ~. 
899 ~ ,'
_,../I J ­
.. 
King's Cellar 
GIDIUI 
I 75L. 1.75 l 
ass gsa 
Budweiser 1f2 bbl Hamms 1/2 bbl little Kings 1/2 bbl 
Quarts-Budweiser 
L.DfUI.Iu:tfl>OMi ... ..... .. .. . . . 2ft CIIITUIII.M-7SO.,.,l .... . .2.ft
~r-m
CII.UITMITIII&IIIIITl "0 M. .. .......... 2.!1!1
··r-ll
·~• lllllw.fi:MIIP-7><> M. . ...~ _.Jf'~ ·. !_~TIIAII(.,._ten~_!l_!~"l')Q""'~ .... 
Wlllll ii'AKUIIC 
WIIITE ZJ•uou"o M• . . . &.tt
G­
LA 
Ill!Ill' 
Uii.TIISII IOSSI SPUtWHI som 
75() Ml 750 Mol
e~w A 
4'99 499 ·•·-299
k,. 
\I/;
\ DU CONTI -. ' ILACUllll Ol ......._ 
. l~lltOT LIQUIUI ~ 
.... 499 \ 
.... 150-.u \ 
.,.,/Jl 
I 
IRISHCRUM
e...~" 
JSO Ml 
1Q99 

We accept checks with NO J.D. Prices good at South Bend Ave. Store only. 
$32.99 $27.99 $30.99 $10.29 

a 61-47 romp ofOff-Campus ( 3-2 ). 
In Big Ten action on Tuesday Grace (5-0) maintained its first­place status with a 63-60 win over DilJon ( 3-2 ). 
In one other Big Ten game, Holy Cross ( 2-3) was able to overcome a two-point halftime deficit to defeat Alumni ( 2-3), 49-45. 
Meanwhile in the Pac Ten, Flanner ( 2-3) led Grace ( 4-1 ) by three into the final period ofplay but Grace was able to turn the tables and come away with a four-point win. 
In one other Pac Ten game, the battle of the defeated, Off-Campus ( 1-4) was able to earn its first victory 
that we wanted to be within five or six points with five minutes left," said Grawer. "That way we thought we'd be in position to win the game." 
Hicks, commg ott the bench for 22 minutes of play, hit on 4 of 6 at­tempts from the floor and was per­fect from the line enroute to a 10-point game. Freshman point guard David Rivers lead the Irish with twelve points, while Barlow and sophomore Donald Royal both hit for 11 points. 
of the year, the win came at the ex­pense ofwinless Fisher ( 0-5 ). 
In ACC action today, Carroll ( 0-4) will be playing Cavanaugh ( 0-4 ), and if Cavanaugh loses this one, it will get another shot for its first victory when it takes on Alumni ( 2-3 ). 
In Big Ten action, undefeated Grace will put its uncontested first­place status on the line when it plays Alumni ( 2-3) while Off-Campus ( 2­
3) faces Dillon (3-2). 
Grace ( 4-1 ) will try to move to within a half-game of front-running Sorin (5-0) in the Pac Ten when it squares off against Fisher (0-5). Flanner ( 2-3) will take on Stanford (2-3). 
With Tim Kempton in the infir­mary with the flu, both Barlow and Royal were forced to play most of the game, with Barlow playing the full40 minutes and Royal getting 38. 
Besides Hicks' 1 0 points, the rest of the Irish bench was almost silent. Senior Dan Duff took one ofhis rare shots, a 15-footer from the foul line, and hit it, but that was it from the bench. For the Irish it was an no­enthused performance, but a win is a win, and with UCLA on Sunday in Pauley Pavillion the extra "W" is all that counts. 
MID-WINTER SPECIALS-.,~=-=::::.1" 
Dinners Under s6.00 
No Coupons Necessary 
Reg. NOW 
~FILET ___________________ s7.95 s5.95 -=~STUFFED FILET _________ s8.95 s5.95 
~ (wrapped in bacon and stuffed w/mushrooms) 
·~LAKE PERCH  ___________  s7.95  $5.95  
RAINBOW TROUT _____  s6.95  s5.25_  
-;r B.B.Q. HALF CHICKEN_ ss.75  s5.25 =­ 

-~_Each entree include~ a bottomless tureen of homemade -soup, baked brPad, and butter, plus your choice of __ hakPd potato, home fries or rice mason. ,. ---_: _(}ff(•r not \,1/.id wtth .tm othN ,,d,,.t,rti~ed ftpcciJis or cnupons.~.:..-­
hpir<"~ h·hru.uy 16, 19U5 

Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
1985-86 Editor-in-Chief 
Open to any ND or SMC undergraduate in good standing 
Elected by 1985 General Board of The Observer 
Assume position March 25, 1985 
Applications must be submitted to Bob Vonderheide by 5 p.m. Feb. 1, 1985 
The Observer 3rd Floor, Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

----------~---------~~----~----­
-
The Observer Thursday, january 31, 1985 -page 14 

By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
Every athlete strives to play to the best of his or her abilities. Gaining recognition from coaches and fans can give the athlete added satisfac­tion for the effort put forth. 
Two freshmen hockey players have discovered that hard work can make the adjustment to the college hockey environment both beneficial and enjoyable. 
Of the seven freshmen who have seen action thus far with this season's Notre Dame hockey team, Mike McNeill and Tom Mooney have stood out above the crowd. 
Both are centers and both are in the top five on the Irish scoring chart, where they have been from the beginning of the campaign. 
McNeill, a 6-1, 1 75-pounder from South Bend St.Joseph's High School, recently jumped ahead of Mooney into the fourth spot by virtue of his two-goal and three-assist perfor­mance against Lake Forest on jan. 
23. In 19 games, McNeill has notched 12 goals and 1 5 assists. 
Mooney, a native ofthe Pittsburgh area, stands 5-11 and weighs 180 pounds. He has tallied 26 points, with II goals to his credit. 
Neither Mooney nor McNeill flaunts his achievements. But at the same time, both are extremely proud to be contributing to the team at such an early point in their careers. And each expresses his feelings in his own modest way. 
"It makes me feel great," says Mooney, "because in the beginning, I was just happy to make the team. I didn't know ifI was good enough, so I was really scared about the situa­tion at first." 
"Things are going well," adds McNeill. "I get a lot ofhelp from my teammates and that makes it easier. My goal is to keep improving as a player. 'Ibe points aren't the most important factor. I want to remain a team player." 
i., 
Despite their hard work and de­termination on the ice, both Mooney and McNeill are actually ex­tremely shy and quiet while away from the game. Both seem to have found a way to successfully separate the two different parts of their lives. 

"I really am a shy person," says McNeill with a slight grin. "I have a hard time sitting down and really talking to someone. I think in a way, this attitude carries over to the ice, but not in such a way that I am afraid to play my game. I can change enough to be outgoing and ag­gressive when I play." 
"Well, yes I am pretty quiet offthe ice," Mooney responds politely. "But I do change when I'm playing. Actually, J prefer rough games to skating games." 
Mooney is not a regular visitor to the penalty box, but he has made 10 trips in that direction this season. And he has also demonstrated that he can effectively throw his weight around. A Hartford writer cited a crunching check delivered by Mooney against a Yale player ­
'· 
('. during the Phoenix Mutual -as the best check of the tourney. McNeill on the other hand, has had just two penalties, but that is in part due to different strengths and 
( 
i. styles ofplay. 

"I try to anticipate things," says McNeill. "I feel comfortable playing hockey and I like to believe that be­cause of my understanding of the game, I can be a smooth player." 
"The line I'm on now is more of a grinder line," says Mooney, who was moved before the Alaska-Fairbanks 
~· game to the second line to add quickness to the abilities of linemates Dave Waldbillig and jeff Badalich. "Now we try to get up on the play and force things."
~­
Up until the change, Mooney had skated between co-captain Brent Chapman and Tim Reilly on the team's top-scoring line. McNeill hat; now assumed that spot. But the were very quick and I felt very un­change gives Mooney a better comfortable playing back there. I'm chance to utilize what he considers most used to playing forward." his best ability. Getting oriented to a new style 
"My skating is my strongest and level of play can be a difficult point," says Mooney. "I don't have a task. But Irish head coach Lefty great shot, so playing where I am, I Smith feels that Mooney and McNeill can rely on my skating to help make have adjusted quite well to college things happen." hockey. 
"Moving to first line was really no "Both of them have done a big deal," responds McNeill. "I just fabulous job," says Smith. "They are try to do my best wherever I play. probably without a doubt the brig­Tom's ability will help add more best spots among the freshmen." consistency to our lines." Each has continueo his smooth 
Aside from the most recent play and will be counted on in the change for McNeill, he also spent games still ahead. five games on defense due to a J Mooney and McNeill are both shoulder injury to co-captain Bob newcomers to college hockey, but Thebeau in the series at Michigan-their drive and determination can Dearborn. only help strengthen the Notre 
"My first series on defense was at Dame hockey program in the up­St. Thomas," says McNeill. "They coming years. 

"C(]Qowe~ f,otr aQQ occm~totlg~· 
Come.in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway· . ·23~--3354 
ssoooaoooooog
19 Nazz Entertain01ent CoOlpetition 
Friday, february 1st 7:00pm -2:00.am All Welcoftle•$500 in prizes ''Winner's Night" 
Saturday, February 2nd 
FOR RENT 
furnished. 3 bedroom home washer & dryer close to campus 
4 ~oommates Needed 
Only $125.00 each 
call287-0148for apt. 

SENIOR BAR! 
Thursday, January 31st 
*GRIZZLY PROMO¥ $1 Grizzly's all night ! 
Friday, February 1st 
25~ Beers ¥ ..Jfaturday, February 2nd .. ...., 9:30-11:00 Happy Hour *¥· 
soe 140z. ic ** !t~ 
75' G&Ts --\'--\' 

,,---------------~, 
J *ScholasticMagazine I 1 will be accepting applications for* I1 Editor-in-Chief. I
I

I ******************* I
I Applications available Monday, 2 I 4 I 85 II in the StudentActiviti-office. I 
I *************************** II 
I 
Applications due Friday, 2/8/85 in the same office.~ I 
\....______________,J 
DOMINO'S PIZZA EATING CONTEST 

WHEN: Halftime of ND Women's B-ball games 
First semifinals: Friday, Feb. 4, 7 p.m. NO vs. Evansville 
DORM COMPETITION 

GIVEAWAYS: Hats, cups, and pizza coupons 
PRIZES: Season pizza pass for winning team (Free pizza every week !l 
Winning dorm also gets a free pizza party courtesy of DOMINO'S PIZZA II 

-~--------~--­


Thursday, January 31, 1985 -page 15 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 


Campus 
•4:30 
p.m. -NROTC Midshipmen Battalion Change ofCommmand, Stepan Center. 

•7-9 
p.m.-Presentation, Continental Illinois Na­tional Bank, For All Sr. BBA and Econ. Majors, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services, Free. 

•7, 
9 & II p.m.-Film, "A Fistful of Dollars," Engi­neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activi­ties Board, $1. 

•
7 p.m. -MandatoryMeeting, SBP/VP Candidates, Little Theater, Lafortune, Sponsored by OBUD. 

•
7 p.m. -GeneralMeeting, Chicago Trip, Finance Forum, 122 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by Finance Club. 

•8 
p.m. -Keenan Revue, O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -MandatoryMeeting, Student Senate Can­didates, Little Theater, LaFortune, Sponsored by OBUD. 

•9 
p.m. -Right to Life Meeting, "Future Plans for Women's Care Center," Litter Theater, Lafortune, Sponsored by ND/SMC Right to Life . 


TV Tonight 
8:00p.m.  16  Bill Cosby Show  
22  Magnum PI  
28  Movie  
34  34 Front  
8:30p.m.  16  Family Ties  




9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00 a.m. 12:30a.m. 2:00a.m. 
16  Cheers  
22  Simon & Simon  
34  Mystery  
16  Night Court  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Masterpiece Theatre  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Movie -Our Town  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Night Heat  
28  ABC News Nightline  
28  Love Connection  
16  Late Night With David Letterman  
22  Nightwatch  


44 Manifest 49 Afr. gazelle 
The Daily Cross"Word 
46 Nicholas or 50 Intend Ivan 51 NCO ACROSS 33 Choler 58 "The Razor's-" 10 State of Brazil 47 Fit 52 Mets' stadium 1 Religious 34 Tender 59 Charter 11 Golf club 48 Gulf of-54 Correlative service 12 Tumult
35 Throw
5 Comic Viking 60 Smiles
36 Brainstorm
10 Swallow 61 -trap for 13 Fathers 
14 Jai-37 Point (try to catch) 19 Pay increase Wednesday's Solution 38 Liturgies 21 -Canals
15 Violin maker 
39 Fermented 24 Smooths out 
16 Tune 
drink 25 Like some
17 Outer coating DOWN
40 Mormon sounds
18 Sorority 1 Planet
letters
20 Evade 2 Others: lat. 
26 Eschew
22 Peter and 41 Elysium 3 Violent desert 
27 Strange
winds
Paul 42 Firm 
28 Abreast
44 Unique person 4 Moonlighting 
29 Of a surface 
23 Blackthorn 45 Wary: var. career fruit 46 Voyage 5 Hie 
30 Eng. author
24 Kazan 
32 Change
25 Country 49 Gallants 6 Pierre's friend 
35 Obliquely
53 Rattlesnake 7 Convulsive 27 Hird: lat. 55 Serbian city utterance 28 Patriotic grp. 56 Copycat 36 Fancies 
38 Take up again
31 Stratford-on·-8 lawyer: abbr. 57 "-is an 9 White table 42 Despises 
©1985 Tribune Medta Servtces. Inc All Rights Reserved
32 Coeurd'-island" wine 43 Sailor 



-------------------------~-----------· 
IT'S COMING. • • 
StudentActivities Board 
THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT 

PRESENTS TRIPS TO: FT. LAUDERDALE 
AND 
DAYTONA BEACH 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING NEXT WEEK 

---------------------------~-~-------J 
!l 
h ~ 
I ~ 
·~ 
., 
Thursday,January 31, 1985-page 16 
Rivers, Barlow, Royal pace Irish as Billikens fall short in upset attempt 
ByJOE BRUNEm likens mentor. "And that was the key Louis with UClA next on tap. 
Sports Writer play ofthe game." "I'm just happy the way we han­Barlow didn't stop there, either. dled it (the half-court game) and St. Louis University came into the The 6-10 center came back less than won the game," Phelps commented. 
ACC last night in an attempt to lull a minute later and did the same "We can't control a team that takes a Notre Dame to sleep. And it almost thing. This time the big man was minute and a half to take a shot. worked. With the Irish getting fouled while driving the baseline to We're not going to go out and ex­drowsy while the Billikens slowly the hoop. He then converted the pend a lot of energy when we have snuck up on them, junior Ken Bar­three-point play making it a 46-38 the lead." low woke up with a thundering slam Notre Dame lead. After opening up a 9-4 lead in the dunk with 1:16 left in the game ex­Good bye, Billikens. Good bye up­opening minutes with the help of tending Notre Dame's lead to five, set attempt. The rest was trivial as some horrendous shooting by Notre 43-38. the Irish won 48-42. Dame ( 2 of 12 from the floor), the 
And it was Barlow who made the St. Louis came in wanting to play a Billikens lost the lead as sophomore difference, at least according to St. half-court game, and Digger Phelp~ Scott Hicks was fouled and sank both Louis coach Rich Grawer. and his Irish didn't object. The last shots from the charity stripe to make "We let Barlow get by two of our thing Phelps wanted to do was tire 
see IRISH, page 13
guys and get a dunk," said the Bil-his troops out against a team like St. 
.; 
Men's swim team beat Holy Cross, Providence in last weekend's meets 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI The Irish dominated the meet second in the 200-yd. freestyle in Sports Writer against Holy Cross with nine first 1:47.25 and in the 200-yd. back­place finishes. The 400·\'ard medley stroke in 2:01.63. Kennedy placed 
The Observer/Vic Luartno 
The Notre Dame men's swimming relay of Paul Benz, Blaise Harding, second ·in both the one-meter and ScottHicks wasn't in tbe starting lineup last night, but the soph­team returned from its weekend co-captain Brian Casey, and Jeff three-meter diving events, while omore guard came off tbe bench to contribute 10 points in 22 roadtrip with two victories against Grace won in a time of 3:45.47. Steve Coffey swam a l0:40.20 in the minutes, bitting onfour ofsix shotsfrom thefield and two of two Holy Cross, 65-13, and Providence, Other first place performances in­1 000-yd. freestyle and Roland free throws. The Irish raised their record to 11-5 with a 48-42 win 65-1 5, but fell to a solid St. cluded co-captain Tim Bohdan in Hartzell recorded a 5: 13.88 in the over St. Louis in tbeACC.joe Brunetti bas tbe game story atright. Bonaventure team 81-31. Currently, the 1 000-yd. freestyle, Jim Dowd in 500-yd. freestyle. the Irish stand at 3-4 on the season. the 200-yd. freestyle, John Koselka "St. Bonaventure has a scholarship in the SO-yd. freestyle, Chris Green program and is always tough," said
Meets Saint Mary's Saturday 
in the 200-yd. Intermediate, Mike Coach Dennis Stark. "They were Kennedy in the one-meter diving, very keyed up for this meet, but our Chris Walsh in the 200-yd. fly, Joe second place swims were good per­\' Ridgeway in the 200-yd. backstroke, formances."
Women's team faces friendly rival 
and Dave Newman in the 500-yd. The Irish are now looking toward
' ~~ 
. \ By MARY SIEGER "We have a good relationship, first-place finishes against Provi­freestyle . their season finale in the Midwest -\ 
Sports Writer even though we're dominant," says dence. 
These strong performances, in­City Championships in February. Notre Dame head coach Dennis As the meet progressed, the Irish 
cluding several second place "We are happy under the circum­Friendly competition -it's rarely Stark. swam exhibition against their oppo­
\) \ finishes, were enough to overpower stances because this has been a seen between two teams who are "They've got a good program, but nents.
) Providence, which competed as the rebuilding year and many swimmers 
considered bitter rivals. we've got more depth,"says Coc­"In the second half of the meet, 
third team in this triangular meet. have gained experience," said Stark. But the mood will be cordial hiolo. "There should be some good we got the chance to move the girls 
However, St. Bonaventure was The team's final home meet is Feb. when the Notre Dame women's races, but the edge we have is our around and let them swim different 
able to dominate the Irish Friday 5 at 7:00 p.m. against a tough swim team welcomes Saint Mary's depth." things," explains Stark. 
night despite six first place finishes Kalamazoo team that has already College to the Rockne Memorial The Irish jumped back into action "It was a lot of fun and we got to 
by Notre Dame. Bohdan placed defeated Ferris State this season. Pool next Saturday afternoon at 2. this semester after an impressive relax," notes Cochiolo. "Sometimes In preseason activity, Notre Dame three-meet sweep on the East Coast it's nicer swimming more relaxed handily defeated the Belles in the last weekend. The six-day road trip than all tight and we learned other Notre Dame Relays last November. improved Notre Dame's overall events in the meet." While the Irish expect to defeat the season record to 6-1. 
The intensity oflast Friday's 77-63 
Belles on Saturday, they anticipate "The trip gave us a little exposure 
victory over Saint Bonaventure Uni­
some cornpetative races. for our program out East and gave 
versity surprised the Irish. Notre
"I think both teams are out to have the team a chance to see a part ofthe 
Dame never clearly dominated the
fun," says Irish co-captain Venette country it may never see again," ex­
meet and the contest was not
Cochiolo. "We'll try to use each plains the veteran swim coach. "It 
decided until Notre Dame's win in
other to improve our tim also gave the team an opportunity to 
the final relay race.

don't want to perpetuate the pull together a little more." 
"They surprised us, they had
rivalry." On Sunday, the Irish decisively 
stronger girls than we expected,"
Relations between Notre Dame defeated Holy Cross College, 79-60, 
says Stark. "We were not expecting
and Saint Mary's thawed when the and Providence College, 84-40, in a 
this to be that competitive but our
two teams shared a hotel during a triple-dual meet in Wooster, Mass. 
seconds and thirds won it for us." 
training trip to Puerto Rico over Notre Dame compiled 10 first-place Christmas Break. finishes against Holy Cross and 12 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 7-0 lead after the relay team of Barbara Byrne, Suzanne Devine, Julie Boss and Cochiolo edged Saint
ND routs Butler 
Bonaventure by one second in the first race. Action became more in­INDIANAPOUS -The Notre meland hit a short jump shot, but 
tense in subsequent races the lead Dame women's basketball team Butler tied the game at 18 with 
volleyed between Notre Dame and 
Saint Bonaventure in the first haif of
netted its highest point produc­6:32 remaining in the first half. the meet.
tion of the season last night, as The lethargic Irish carne to life 
the Irish romped to a 79-40 win towards the end of the first half, 
The Irish missed the services of top freshmen diver Andrea Bonny,
over Butler University in Hinkle and ran off a 20-0 spree that who spent this weekend in Notre
Fieldhouse. spanned 8:13 over both halves Dame's infirmary, but Colleen
Trena Keys led a balanced and put the game out of reach. Notre Dame scoring attack with The Irish had the rebounding 
Ambrose's performance in the one­
meter dive turned things around for
1 5 points, and the junior forward edge, 46-30, and shot 50 percent 
added eight rebounds and three from the field in the second half 
the Irish at Saint Bonaventure. blocked shots in the game. Kathy to add to their lead. Notre Dame 
"Colleen Ambrose really pulled Brommeland ( 13 points, four hit on 15 of 18 free throws in the 

through for us," said Cochiolo. "The rebounds) and Lynn Ebben ( 12 game to maintain its advantage, 
divers had their jobs cut out for points) sparked Notre Dame while the Lady Bulldogs hit only 
them especially at Saint from the bench, along with 12 of 22 foul shots and just 33 
Bonaventure because of the pres­Denise Basford, who added 10 percent of their shots from the 
sure." points on five-of-five shooting field. 
Last weekend's 3-0 sweep from the field. Mary Beth Notre Da'ine is now 9-7 overall, 
generated confidence on the team as Schueth, who graduated from 2-1 in the North Star Conference. 
the Irish enter the final phase of its season.
nearby Perry Meridian High while Butler dropped to 3-11, 1-3 
School, had eight points and five in the NSC. 
"Everybody came together," said rebounds for the Irish. The Irish will take on 
Cochiolo. "We were so high coming The Notre Dame men's swimming team went 2-1 on its weekend The Irish jumped out to a Evansville Friday night at the 
off the Saint Bonaventure meet and road trip, defeating Holy Cross andProvidence, while losing to ~-t. quick 14-4 lead when Brom-ACC. 
now we can look back and know we Bonaventure. Mike Szymanski recaps tbe action for the 3-4 Irish can swim that well." above. 
I 
-..____ 









