Conservative freshmen-page 3 

By SCOTI BEARBY 
StaffReporter 
Notre Dame hall presidents voiced their opinions regarding the possible restructure of student gov­ernment by the Student Senate Com­mittee to Reevaluate Student Government at last night's Hall Presidents' Council meeting. 
CREST asked the council foe input on the ideal role ofthe hall president in campus government. For the past few weeks, a committee ofhall presi­dents met to establish a proposal for tl':e HPC to vote on and send to the senate committe. 
CREST had originally hoped to implement a new structure by the time the new administration takes over on April 1. 
The ftrst proposal called for stu­dent government to function under a 26-member voting body consisting of 24 hall presidents, off-campus commissioner and student body vice president as a tie-breaker, plus 11 non-voting members. By a consi­derable margin, however, the HPC voted down this proposal. 
Visiting Senate Executive Coord­inator for Student Interests Doug Wurth and Student Body Vice President-Elect Duane Lawrence both saw difficulties with the pro­posal, stating that a new structure cannot be developed without ftrst deciding student government's pro­posed direction in the coming years. 
Only after long-term goals and ob­
jectives are established can a new 
body be formed, according to Wurth 
an.d Lawrence. 
While Gretchen Froehlke, Walsh Hall president, said a governing body made of hall presidents would help to unify hall and campus gov­ernment, other council members disagreed. Part of this disagreement was voiced by Cavanaugh Hall Presi­dent Kevin Conneely who said the proposal would "put a lot of pres· sure on HPC." He said additional re­sponsibilities might be overwhelming for hall presidents. 
Another option for restructuring student government called for a mir­ror image of HPC, 24 hall represen­tatives and an off-campus official, emphasizing standing committee and special project work. By a 13-9­3 vote, the proposal passed and will be sent to the CREST committee. Under this plan, duly elected legisla­tors would represent each hall's views equally. 
Keenan Hall President Kevin Howard voiced opposition to the passed proposal by saying he "didn't think there would be that much to do" for four or ftve standing commit­tees. 
However, Peggy Hess, Pasquerilla West president, countered this statement by saying there "should not be a question of not enough to do." This would signal the campus has no creativity, she said. 
By MARY CAROL CREADON 
Senior StaffReporter 
Michael Anania, poet and novelist, opened the Sophomore Uterary Fes­tival last night with a reading from his latest novel, "The Red Menace." The story is set in Omaha, Neb., Anania's hometown, during the McCarthy era and in the wake ofthe first atomic blasts in Nagasaki and Hiroshima. 
Anania also read a sample of his new poems, ones not in his poetry collections, "The Color ofDust" and "Riversongs." These new poems, in-eluded in "The Sky at Ashland" col­lection, focus on the poet in relation to his surroundings either in Ne­braska or in Chicago, where Anania is currently an assistant professor of English at the University ofIllinois. 
Excerpts from the novel were the high point ofthe evening, because of Anania's gift for comedy and insight on American spirit, culture and values. As Studs Terkel said upon reading the novel, "Michael Anania, an excellent poet, is now a multi­threat. This excellent novel, as timely as the razor's edge on which we live, is a natural." 
The hall presidents also voted to encourage CREST to draft an effec­tive plan for a new student govern­ment structure by the time the new ./ administration takes office, if at all possible. The HPC will be sending ;; some delegates to the CREST com­mittee for further hall president in­put. A new HPC committee will also be formed to do further work on the proposal and to determine what role the already elected senators will play in student government. 
In other business, hall presidents voted to amend the HPC Constitu­tion in order to better ensure future voting continuity Under the amend­ment, only one president from each hall will be considered an official delegate on the council. 
An additional change will allow a president to have a substitute for only three meetings during the year. After the three substitutions, the hall representative will be considered not present. Three absences after the substitutions have been used will result in loss ofhall funds for the year. 
Chairman Chris Tayback reported on the progress ofthe HPC Rafil.e for Multiple Sclerosis. Tickets are scheduled to go on sale Sunday, March 24, and will be sold through­1'he ot.erver/Mary out the week. The party for those Author and poet Michael Anania was tbe literary figure of last who purchase raffie tickets is nigbt as Sophomore Literary Festival continues. Anania's poetry tentatively planned for the weekend collectons Include The Color ofDust and Riversongs, where be ex­of March 29. plores river symbolism. Story below. 
Poet Anania writes of Americans' fear of Communism 
The two main themes of the novel, reflected in Anania's two se­lections, discuss American attitudes toward communists and their dark fear of the newly-developed atomic bomb. 
For instance, the main character, Arnold, and his teen-age friends, after hearing that "dead nuns put hexes on whoever drops" the bomb, decided to "write a letter to the Rus­sians and tell them we got dead nuns here so they better drop their atomic bomb someplace else ifthey don't want to get hexed and have boils all over them." 
Anania paints a vivid picture of high school age cheerleaders and jocks in a typically '50s malt shop before school. Arnold and his gang dance in, arm and arm, singing a Cab Calloway tune, Is you is, or Is you is a Commie. Doo-wap, doo-wap. 
After "entertaining" the various unimpressed couples, the boys proceed to walk towards their des­tination. Arnold says, "Do you see that school? Five, four, three, two, one, bam. Gone man. Just gone." 
The second excerpt centers around Arnold's first day working as a dishwasher in a hotel restaurant. A fellow worker, Louis, shares with Ar­nold some of his personal observa­tions about communists. "Why a Communist ain't no better than a queer. Worse. Least a queer will buy you a drink. A Communist won't shut up until you agree with him. And then he won't even give you a bowl ofsoup." 
Louie also says that part of going to "Communist school" is that they give the men ugly girlfriends. "You ever see the women that go around with Communists? Ugly and fat, every damn one ofthem." 

McManus resigns post after 9 years in diocese 
Associated Press D'Arcy is a Boston native who attended St. John'.s Seminary and 
WASHINGTON -Roman Cath­was ordained in Boston Feb. 2, olic Bishop William McManus of 1957. Fort Wayne-South Bend, Ind., has resigned his Church leadership McManus said in October position, and John D'Arcy of Bos­1983 that he intended to retire ton has been named as his succes­early last year. sor, Church officials said "It's my choice," he ~id. "I Monday. could stick around until I turn 
No reason was given for the 75." resignation of Me Manus, 71, who McManus said at that time that had led the northern Indiana he would request permission diocese for nine years. from Pope John Paul II to retire 
D'Arcy, 52, has been an auxil­after his birthday inJanuary. iary bishop responsible for the Lowell area in the Boston The bishop, a Chicago native, archdiocese since Feb. 11, 197S. had been spritual head of the He also is in charge of the diocese since Oct. 19, 1976. The archdiocese's spiritual develop­diocese is Indiana's third largest. ment office. after Indianapolis and Gary. 
This year's valedictorians chosen; A high GPA not the original goal 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
News Staff 
There are basically two types of students who make excellent grades in college: the genius and the hard worker. Both types may be 
represented  by  1984-85  Notre  
Dame  and  Saint  Mary's valedic­ 
torians.  

Notre Dame valedictorian, Jim Roche, is of the former type. Accor­ding to Roche, his perfect 4.0 grade point average is not the result ofany extraordinary amount of studying on his pan. 
"I'm r'!ally lazy. I'm not good at all at sitting down and studying," said Roche. "Basically, I study when deadlines are coming due. The sheer terror of facing deadlines does wonders for me." 
Saint Mary's College valedic­torian, Laura Banas, is of the latter type. Banas, whose grade point average is above 3.9, attributes her success to a lot ofstudying and hard work. "I don't consider myself a genius," said Banas. "I probably put in ftve hours of outside classwork a day. It was a lot ofhard work." 
The honor of valedictorian is 
given by both Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's to the senior with the highest 
cumulative grade point average in 
his or her graduating class. 
Roche, an electrical engineering major, said he never worked for the goal of valedictorian and was modest about his achievement. 
"I never really thought about (being named valedictorian). I knew the chances ofescaping without get­ting one •A-' was very small," he said. "There was a lot ofluck involved, es­pecially in liberal arts courses. If I had taken adifferent English course I might well have gotten less than an 'A.' Things like lab tend to be good equalizers too. It's pretty easy to get a 'B' or an 'A-' in those.'' 
Banas, a French and history major, also said becoming valedictorian was not a goal. 
"I never set being the valedic­torian as a goal. My short range con­cerns were studying hard and making good grades. I concentrated on those short range goals," said Banas. "I always have been a consci­entious student. But never in my wildest dreams would I as a fresh-
see GPA, page 4 



The Observer Wednesday, February 27, 1985-page 2 

Friends of New York Mayor Ed Koch 
have made a bid to buy the Village Voice, a forum for some of the mayor's most avid detractors, but the newspaper's owner, Rupert Murdoch, refused to sell. The architect ofthe bid was Howard Blum, a friend of the mayor, who said yesterday he conceived the idea while writing a novel about a weekly "similar to the Voice." Blum approached one ofKoch's aides, Dan Wolf, who put him into contact with Murdoch early last fall. A group ofinvestors backing Blum pre­sented Murdoch with an offer "between $30 million and S40 mil­lton" onjan. 7, he said. -AP 
The five reputed leaders of New York City's 
Mafia families were rounded up overnight and charged yesterday in a federal indictment with being the "rulingbody" ofacriminal enter­prise that deals in murder, labor racketeering and extortion. Officials predicted the federal indictment would encourage crime victims to cooperate with police and begin violent struggle within the families. "lbis is a bad day, probably the worst ever, for the Mafia," said U.S. attorney Rudolph Giuliani. Never before, he said, had a federal in­dictment charged so many bosses. -AP 
An Elkhart labor union'sformer financial secre­tary, under indictment on 20 counts of embezzlement, was held yesterday in Alabama, authorities said. Billie White Price, 54, was arrested in Jasper, Ala., on federal charges in connection with the alleged embezzlement offunds from Elkhart Local207 ofthe Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers Union. Price, indicted earlier this month by a federal grand jury in South Bend, was arrested by the 
U.S. Marshal's Service late last week. -AP 
Cuba's push in the 1980s to lure Western 
tourists and their dollars has made little progress, to the frustration ofgovernment officials who blame the Reagan administration's ban on travel to the communist island. "Americans want to come to Cuba. If the United States didn't have this blockade, the American people would be our number one market," said jorge Alonso Mac­hado, promotions director for the National Tourism Institute. -AP 
Four men, including a federal security 
agent and a former Mexico City official, were arrested in connection with the abduction ofa U.S. drug enforcement agent in Guadalajara earlier this month, Mexican FederalJudicial Police said Monday. En­rique Gonzalez Aguilar, former head oftransit in Mexico City; Tomas Morlett Borquez, 48, an agent ofthe Federal Department ofSecurity; and Eduardo Ramirez Ortiz, 34, believed to be a former agent of a Mexican security force, were arrested Sunday in Tijuana, said Angel Villa Barron, second in command of the judicial police. 
-AP 

Of Interest 
The United Religious Community wm 
sponsor a workshop for volunteers who work in its overnight Shelter for the Homeless.Joseph Bleich will lead a workshop at 7 p.m. today at Fatima Retreat Center on responding to"street people" who have emotional problems. He is a Madison Center therapist who also works with patients at Memorial Hospital in South Bend. -The Obseroer. 
Weather 

Sunny and seasonably cool today. Lows in the lower 20s to lower 30s tonight. We knew it was too good to last. -AP 

Today's issu~ was produced by: 
Design Editor................................ Andy Saal

The Observer 
Design Asststant ..................... Alex Peltzer Layout Staff.......................Tracy Schindel~ Priscilla Karle Typesetters ................................. Vic Guarino The Observer (USPS '599 2·4000) is Ted Dore published Monday through Friday and News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino on home football Saturdays, except Copy Edttor ....................................... Liz Flor during exam and vacation periods. The Sports Copy Edttor...... Eric Scheuermann O~rver is publish~d by th~ students of VIewpoint Copy Editor........ ... Mary Ellen the University of Notre Dame and Saint Viewpoint Layout ................. carol Brown Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan purchased for $30 per year ( J20 per se· Features Layout ................... Andi Schnuck mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. ND Day Editor .............. Cindy Rauckhorst Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46'5'i6. SMC Day Editor... ........................ Ed Nolan The O~rver Is a member of The Ad Design .................................. Fred Nelson Auociated Press. AJI reproduction Catherine Ramsden rights are reserved. Pbotograpber............................. Mary Flynn 
Just when you thought it was safe to go back into the parking lots 
Wouldn't it be nice if Notre Dame was far away from the real world of crime and vandalism? Unfortunately, you don't have to go as far as Cabrini Green or the sub­ways of New York to find such things-in tact, they are right here in our own backyard. 
Grace resident Ray Gutierrez left his '74 Camaro in the D-2 student lot as usual one day last October. When he returned later, the car was sitting on blocks, all four wheels and tires gone and never to be seen again. One­and-a-half months later,· Gutierrez's canvas car-cover also disappeared. As if this wasn't enough, two weeks after that someone broke into the unlucky Camara, and, unable to remove the stereo, scrawled over all its seat cushions with a magic marker. Gutierrez estimated total damage at S700. 
A Stanford senior arrived in D-2last Thursday to find the rear window of his Honda Accord smashed open with a crowbar. Someone had forced out his S300 stereo (and most of the dashboard along with it), not even sparing the two front speakers. 
Another student found his Z-28 decorated with dirt which was spread all over the roof and rubbed in to creatt" scratches. 
Students are not the only victims. Angel Delgado-
Gomez, assistant professor
of modern and classical Ian-~ guages, arrived in lot A-1 Monday morning to find the roof of his car smashed in, apparently by walking or jumping on top ofit. 
Delgado-Gomez was at a loss to explain the damage. "The radio is cheap, and there was nothing to steal inside. They may have tried to break in and couldn't, so they got frustrated." The offenders' intents seem to be random, pointless van­dalism as often as serious stealing. 
Who is responsible for the damage? According to Notre Dame Security Director Glenn Terry, the van­dalism often seems to be the work of students, while local people probably do most of the stealing. because "lotsdown on Route 31 and other places are getting hit. Acrew ofthieves works in the area, and picks on any lot they want to." 
What can be done about it? Most ofthe victims agree Security cannot do much more. Its staff patrols the lots each night, but with only one car workingoffcampus at a time it can only cover so much. Student patrollers also regularly check the lots, but "they haven't been as effec­tive as in the past," according to Terry. 
Even with more manpower, the problem is ex­tremely difficult to control. As one victim pointed out, anyone could "throw on a pair ofjeans and appear to be 
SObering
Advice .··.
ca_nsa\(e 
·. alife v: ,
/ ' 
•.4"
..
-

l'AMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
WAre you OK to driver "Whats a few beers?" 
"Did you have too m1teh to drink?" "I'm peifectlyfine." 
"Are you. i11 any shape to drive?" w/'ve neverjelt better." 
"I think you've had ajew too many." "You kiddin, I can drive r----------------~ with my eyes closed." 
I Nalre Dame I 
wyou've had too much to drink, let me drive." 
"Nobody drives my car lmt me." 
I Avenue I I Aparlmenls I 
I I
I Apartments Available for I I Summer Months I DRINKING AND DRIVIG 
I I 
CAN Kll A FRIENDSHIR 
1 Call office 3-6 p.m. daily 1 I 234-6647 I 
u.s. o._._of Tranopcrlal..... !] 

~----------------· 

Mary Healy 
Features Editor 
a kid from Notre Dame. You could pull in, wait for Se­curity to leave and make your hit. Use a brick to get through the window, and you could be taking apart the radio within minutes." When the patrol returns, you simply lie down in the seat -chances are the broken window will not be noticed. 
Taking extra precautions often seems to backfire. Junior Trent Rock equipped his Camaro with a security system and locked the wheels. But when vandals in D-2 last November found they could not break in, they "got 
frustrated and 'keyed' their initials into the top of the roof. Then they 'body slammed' into the side ofthe car," seriously denting it, ac­cording to Trent. 
The break-ins happen to cars in all lots, although D-2 is especially hard-hit, with 
41 cases oflarceny last year. Altogether in 1984, Security 
...ii!VIIItl' received reports of 101 lar­cenies, 3 7 automobile break-ins and 88 cases of damage to car accessories. They occur in well-lit spots and in dark corners. Cars both new and old, expensive and ·cheap, on and off­campus, have been abused. 
Nevertheless, Terry sug­gests a few precautions for students: always lock your car, park in a remote (but not dark) area rather than in the main lane, and register any items ofvalue in the car with Security. 
There are more drastic possibilities, such as closing off the lots with gates that can only be opened with a Detex-like card, issued to those with registered cars in the lots. But what happens when a student has lost his card and just bas to get to the airport in 20 minutes? 
Another answer would be to move the D-2 entrance to right across from the East Gate, and keep that gate open 24 hours a day. Terry suggested this idea in his annual report, he said, but money for it has not been budgeted. 
Automobile security is a serious issue, and must be addressed as such by both security and students. 
Until it is, must every student on his way to the parking lot dread finding his car only a shadow of its former self? 

The Observer Wednesday, February 27, 1985-page 3 
Cavanaugh's .Andy Sowder fund may near projected $10,000 goal 
By DIANE SCHROEDER 
News Staff 
Six years have passed since former 
Cavanaugh Hall President Andy 
Sowder died in St. joseph's Hospital 
ofspinal meningitis. 
Cavanaugh Hall residents hope 
this is also the year their Andy Sow· 
der Scholarship Fund reaches its 
SIO,OOO goal. 
Andy Sowder, a Notre Dame 
senior at his death, was on a ski trip 
during February 1979 and returned 
with what he thought was a severe 
cold or the flu. He went to the infir· 
mary. 
The next day his condition wor· 
sened, but because infirmary 
doctors are off Saturdays, he did not 
receive medical attention until Sun· 
day morning when he had severe 
neck and head pains and was rushed 
to St. Joseph's Hospital where tests 
showed he had a virulent form of 
spinal meningitis. 
By this time, Sowder was in a coma from which he never recovered. His parents arrived that day and Cavanaugh residents began ·a 24-hour vigil at the hospital with his parents. Efforts to revive him were fruitless and on Thursday of that week Sowder's parents and Fa­ther Matthew Miceli made the deci­sion to see if he could live without the life support systems.. He died that Thursday after receiving Last 
Rites from Miceli. 
Miceli, rector ofCavanaugh, was a 
good friend of Sowder's and still 
remains in contact with the Sowder 
family. "Andy was very popular," 
said Miceli. "He was the type of guy 
who did a lot without expecting 
anything in return. Those are rare qualities." 
Sowder came from Idalou, a small town in rural Texas. He was major­ing in business and finance, and received many job offers before his death. As president of Cavanaugh Hall, he initiated many projects, in· cludiJ1g a weight lifting room and the present pool room. Miceli added, "We owe a lot to Andy. We still miss him and will always pray for him and his family." 
A good student, Sowder was also interested in campus politics but never ran for higher office. His degree was presented to his parents by Father Theodore Hesburgh, Uni· versity president, in a private cere· mony at the Morris Inn. 
Sowder was a member of the Notre Dame Band and is especially missed by 1979 band members, ac­cording to Robert O'Brien, band director. O'Brien explained the band's relationship with Sowder and one another. "Band is a family affair and we are all very close. This close· ness comes from working hard to­gether and working out difficult situations. lbis is a form ofwork that everyone enjoys, a class where everyone wants to be there. It's like having 200 close friends." 
O'Brien said Sowder's death was a shock to everyone, and that he was "very personable and likeable. Andy was fun to tease and joke with be· cause he could tease and joke right back." 
Sowder played horn in both the marching and varsity bands for four years. During that time he was awarded the band sweater, and later an outstanding commendation after 
Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
Every Wednesday it's Mama Marriott's Italian Buffet in the looking GlaSs' Restaurant. A "buon gusto" array of antipasta, minestrone, fettuctne, cacdatore, lasagne, pasta with four sauces, cheese, breads and desserts. It's all served up in a festive Italian atmosphere -checkered table cloths, a strolling musidan, -the works. 
Every Wednesday 
5:00p.m.-10:00 p.m. All you can eat for $8.95 Children under 12 $4.75 
Reservations appreciated. 
$1.00 Off 
Each adult's \\'etlnesday night ~l~m1a ~larriott Italian Buftt.•t purrh~L"t'll. One coupon per tahle only. 
Expires 3·27-85 
SOLJTJI HEI\-l~Qrriott. 
12.~ \.St. Joseph St.. South Bt.·nd (219) 25+20<Xl 
his death in 1979. He had been picked for the award the previous year. O'Brien added,"We were all fond of Andy. We loved him very much;''' 
Shortly after Sowder passed away, his close friends and fellow band members joined with Miceli and Cavanaugh Hall Council to spear· head a memorial fund. This fund took the form of a scholarship in Sowder's name. A fund also began in Idalou, raising S2,000, and the Knute Rockne trophy was renamed for Sowder. The trophy is presented to Notre Dame dorms for excellence in some field ofendeavor. 
The scholarship, however, is Cavanaugh's own project. The goal is first to raise S 1 0,000. After that amount is obtained, the interest will help to pay the college expenses ofa needy student from Texas. The proj· ect, unique in the history ofthe Uni­versity, was approved by Notre Dame officials who helped set up the fund. 
So far, $8,000 has been raised. Ac· cording to Micelli, donations pour in from all over · Sowder's parents and relatives, friends, former residents of Cavanaugh, a Lenten collection from the hall chapel as well as proceeds from special hall projects such as an annual hall play. 
For the past six years, Cavanaugh has put on musicals and talent shows in addition to the annual hall play. This year's play, "Barefoot in the Park," by Neil Simon, is set for March 28 to 30 in LaFortune. Bob Ellsworth from the play's publ.icity staff said, "Production is going very well. The acting is excellent and the people are really enthusiastic about it." 
Celebrate Life! Help the 
<fp 
March of Dimes Fight Birth Defects 
5 p.m. -10 p.m. 
Frank's Red Hots Chicago Dogs Coney Dogs Gyros Deli Sandwiches Beer 
Freshmen see success, money as future goals 
By SHANNON OAKES 
News Staff 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
freshmen say they picture them· 
selves as conservative, money· 
conscious and success-seeking 
individuals. 
"I think that people our age are more conservative than fresh­men five or ten years ago. We are open-minded to new, liberal ideas, but conservative in our voting and in our actions," Saint Mary's freshman Angie Cortesio commented. 
Regina resident Ann Pelino would like to see less conserva· tive people at the two schools: "We don't get enough variety." 
Overall, the freshmen claim Notre Dame and Saint Mary's recruit uniformity, describing their class as having the same values and ideals with little diver­sification. "Everyone comes from the same background: Catholic high school, captain of the foot· ball team, student council presi­dent. the good guy next door," said freshman Sean Madden. 
"Individuality is stifled. If you're out of the ordinary, you are cast out," agreed freshman Andy Vierhile. 
These same freshmen also say, however, that the two schools of· fer tremendous possibilities for students' futures. "(Freshmen) come to Saint Mary's with goals in mind. The students are well· prepared · sophisticated," said Mary Ann Rowan, director of ad· missions at Saint Mary's. 
Alumni Hall resident Paul 
Clemens believes freshmen are 
more success-oriented. "They 
want the best that the world has 
to offer. They want the whole 
spectrum. They feel that by com· 
ing to ND and SMC they will see 
their dreams realized." 
Wendy Harris said she came to Saint Mary's because of the school's reputation. "Employers can depend on a SMC graduate as being a certain type of person. That's why recruits come here," she said. 
The atmosphere at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stresses studying, according to Harris. "Saint Mary's isn't a blow-off school, you have to work here. People come here to get a good job, they don't come here for the sake of going to college. They come here to work." 
Regina Hall Director Margaret Caven said, "Many students seem to be more oriented toward career choices where they can advance in terms of money and position." Caven said she feels this is a nationwide trend, one not unique to Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
Making money is definitely up­permost in the minds of most freshmen. After graduating, Har­ris said she wants to have "a good job making a lot ofmoney." 
Cortesio agreed, saying, "I think that our main goal is to achieve the American Dream: a good job, a nice car · monetary success -and good standing in so­ciety." 

ND receives over $4 million 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame received more than $4 million from various organiza· tions during January, with most awards going to fund research proj· ects. 
The S4,062,739 total includes a 53,367,000 grant from the U.S. De­partment of Energy for support of the Radiation Laboratory it sponsors on campus. 
Other research grants total S3,572,542 and include: 
• $222,428 from the National In· stitutes of Health for studies of the reproductive physiology of Aedes mosquitoes by Morton Fuchs. pro-
PRESENT YOUR NO or SMC 10 and receive 30% off all items on the menu. 
Chris' Ice Cream 
Homemade Ice Cream Banana Splits Homemade Wames Cones Sundaes 16Mixlns 62 Flavors 

Wfthfn WGI.fna dlstGnee 
1/c MILE EAST Of N.D. ONST.RD.23 
TRY US!


red hots 
fessor and chairman of biology and microbiology, and Suk-Hee Kang, as­sociate faculty fellow in biology. 
• 
S77,098 from the National In­stitutes ofHealth for research on the cology ofvectors ofjamestown Can­yon virus by Paul Grimstad, assistant professor ofbiology. 

• 
S70, 5 79 from the University of Wisconsin at Madison for a study of the cascading trophic interaction in lake ecosystems by Stephen Carpenter, assistant professor of bi­ology. 

• 
S68,700 from the National Sci· ence Foundation for research on gene expression in sporulating yeast by Mary Clancy, assistant professor ofmicrobiology. 

• 
S35,000 from the Semiconduc· tor Research Corp. for develop­ments in rapid thermal annealing in Si-phase II by Richard Kwor, associ­ate professor of electrical engineer­ing, and Dim-Lee Kwong, assistant professor ofelectrical engineering. 

• 
$34,737 from the National Sci­ence Foundation for research on en· docrine regulation in fish by Frederick Goetz Jr., assistant profes­sor ofbiology. 

•$20,000 
from the National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion for the research on coding con­siderations for fiber-optic data networks by Mark Herro, assistant professor ofelectrical engineering. 

• 
$10,000 form the Exxon Educa· tion Foundation in a grant to supple· 


ment  the  National  Science  
Foundation  Young  Inv estigator  
Award given  last year  to  Michael  

Katona. associate professor of civil engineering. _ 
• 
$109,200 from the U.S. Depart· ment of Education for graduate and professional fellowships for Hispanic students. 

•34,023 
from the National In­stitutes of Health for research train· ing in mental retardation, directed byjohn Borkowski, professor ofp_sy­chology, and Thomas Whitrpan; pro­fessor and chairman of psychology. 



.I 
j ! 
I 
1 
j 
I 
The Observer Wednesday, February 27, 1985-page 4 
1 
l 
Volunteers appear instrumental in 
l 
saving Fort Wayne homes in flood 
Associated Press green plastic bags, then building Not all the volunteers were sandbag walls along the river banks teenagers. 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -Shoveling, winding through the most vulner­Herman Aschliman, 63, a farmer hauling and placing tens of able neighborhoods. from rural Decatur south of the city, thousands of sandbags, Fort Wayne held open sandbags while his 66­residents again helped stem the tide Wendy Pence, 17, a student at Bis­year-old wife, Nina, filled them with offlooding rivers. hop Luers High School, spent six sand. 
But Mayor Winfield Moses Jr., hours Monday tossing sandbags Nor were the Aschlimans the grateful for their volunteer spirit, onto a· river dike and volunteered oldest volunteers. blamed political fractiousness as again to fill bags from a six-foot high That honor may have gone to 76­much as high waters for the current sand pile at a southside parking lot. year-old Walt Mundt, a retired rail· round offloods. "What's hard is tossing bags onto road conductor who lives in rural 
For the second day, city public the dike," Pence said. "I couldn't Allen County. schools and parochial high schools hardly move when I got up (this "I can handle this all right," Mundt Closed down while officials urged morning.)" said as he sat on a pile of filled bags students to help protect their homes She came back for more of the and held open empty ones for a and the homes offriends. tiring work "because friends of shoveler. "I don't think I could do an 
And for the second day, nearly mine's houses are going under. hour out on the river bank." 1,000 volunteers responded, shovel­People need help. You've got to pull Mundt said the work "keeps me ing tons of sand into thousands of together." out of trouble." 
Notre Dame's t-shirt shop in the basementofLaFortune isalive and well, as these four can attest. From left, Becky Miklos, Bob Cox, joe Can-ol/ and Pam Moeller demonstrate the technique involved
Prof speaks on civil rights groups 
in producin!( a printed t-shirt. 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
called comparable pay for women continue to be held back and held StaffReporter "the looniest idea since Looney down by ... bureaucratic rules and GPA fiftY chance of my becoming a pro­Tunes came on the screen." procedures of private corpora­fessor and going into industrial Joseph Scott, professor of sociol­tions." continuedfrompage 1 research for a research-oriented
In rebuking Pendleton, Scott said,ogy at Notre Dame, recently spoke "Private corporations, in the ag­man say, 'I'm going to buckle down company."

"His rhetoric is very insidious andat the Colfax Cultural Center in gregate, have in America . . . the and get a high GPA so I could be thedevisive. He attacks traditional civil 

South Bend on the leadership of power of determining who works valedictorian.' " Banas is uncertain about her im­
rights groups such as the NAACP.

several of the nation's more influen­and who does not and at what level Roche, who last year had the 14th mediate plans after graduation. "I'mYou shouldn't spend any time or en­tial civil rights organizations. 
of remuneration regardless of the highest score in North America on not sure if I'll go to graduate school ergy in debating the value of the 
In particular, Scott responded to skills, knowledge, and performance the Putnam Math Exam, plans to go right away or take a year off from 
NAACP, a group which has worked 

capabilities," said Scott. to graduate school next year and school," said Banas. "I'm basing my
criticism of Clarence Pendleton, hard to change laws which upheld "This country began as a liberta­pursue a Ph.D in electrical engineer­decision on whether I can get a
chairman of the U.S. Civil Rights segregation." 
Commission. rian democracy in rhetoric and ing. scholarship or not. IfI take a year off, In a paper titled "1984: The Public became a totalitarian democracy in "I'll probably go to graduate I'll use the time to get a job to earn Pendleton has come under fire for and Private Governance of Race Re­fact," concluded Scott. school at Stanford. There's a fifty-money for school," she said. 

remarks made in a November speech in which he criticized black leaders for having "made an industry out ofracial politics." 
In the December issue of the "Civil Rights Update," Pendleton lations" written in August of 1984, Scott maintains that "the gover­nance of race relations has shifted from the public to the private cor­porate bureaucracies. Blacks, wo­men, and other visible minorities 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
News Editor  Features Editor  
Saint Mary's Executive  Photo Editor  
Editor  Controller  

Sports Editor Advertising Manager Viewpoint Editor Production Manager Copy Chief 
Questions about these positions should be directed to Sarah Hamilton at The Observer. Personal statements and resumes are due Wednesday, Feb. 27 at 5 p.m. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

TONIGHT Sophomore Literary 
Festival 
presents 

8:00 PDI 
preceded by 
GEORGE HUNT 
expert on the work of John Updike 
7:00 pOl in the Library Auditoriuna 
--~-------~­
Accent 
Dancing keeps 'Fast 
Forward' on its feet 


John Hines 
Movie review 
What do Wonder Bread, Ohio and the recently released movie "Fast Forward" all have in common ? Each is flat and boring. Those of you who like Wonder Bread or live in Ohio have my deepest sympathies. To those who go to see "Fast Forward" after fair warning, I can offer no solace. 
What begins as a quest-for-success story about eight high school stu­dent age dancers journeying to New York to "break into" show business, emerges as a rehash of a well worn story line. The eight from Sandusky, Ohio, win a talent contest and head for New York for a one-in-a-million shot at stardom. 
Sidney Poitier may be a good ac­tor, but if "Fast Forward" is any indi­cation, he's a mediocre director at best. With a couple of exceptions, no character is very well developed. Most of the acting in this film is as natural as molasses flowing uphill in wintertime. The dialogue, actions and facial expressions of the charac­ters appear forced and artificial. 
When these characters get excited, they get too excited, and when they are depressed, they look too depressed. The secret to good acting, I'm told. is to not appear to be acting. These folks could not have done much worse if they'd have looked straight into the camera tense. In fact, these actors were cho­sen for their dancing ability, not their acting technique. It shows. 
The choreography in this latest of the dance film/musical genre is not bad. Although few of the actors in this movie can actually act, they can all dance extremely well. The cast manages to perform some complex dance numbers flawlessly. While the dialogue in this film seems forced at times, the movements on the dance floor are smooth, precise and a plea­sure to watch. 
The script, however, does not exude originality. Throughout the film one longs to see some character development or character depth ­anyone or anything interesting. Some ingenious person could have added some excitement to this film byletting the audience see different, interesting characters develop, . change or even stay the same -as long as these people were presented as people, not as cardboard cutouts sponsible for a notable lack of with Ultrabright -white smiles. originality is not clear, but some­Whether Richard Wesley, the body goofed. screenplay writer, or Timothy Sorry to admit it, but "Fast For­March, the author of the story, is re-ward" could more accurately be entitled " 'Eight is Enough' Goes to New York via a Low Budget Holly­wood Film." These teenagers look as though they belong on reruns of "Eight is Enough" or "The Brady 
i 
1 
j 
Bunch." The acting and the script are of the same caliber. The movie "Fast Forward" simply does not seem like a full -fledged Hollywood film. It's definitely a "B-" grade film. 
All in the family 
Margaret McCabe 
assistant features editor 
all15 in the family that is 
It's one ofthose standard getting-to-know-someone ques­tions -sort oflike "where are you from?" or "what's your major?". 
But when you ask Ellen Brown how many people are in her fam­ily, be prepared to drop your jaw. Brown, a junior and an education major at Saint Mary's College is 
" From Thanks­giving on, my poor mom is practically at the stores everyday, open til close, until Christmas." 
-Ellen Brown 

lucky number 13 in a family of 1 5 
children. 
You may jump to conclusions as anyone might in today's society, but all of them -Ron, Bill, Mary Annette, Debbie, Greg, Randy, David, Gerry, Dan, Chuck, Jim, John, Ellen, Dennis and Vickie (whew) -are 100 percent Brown. 
It all started in Kentucky where Mrs. Brown had six children by the milkman ... ahem, Mr. Brown's profession at the time. Before long it became apparent that Kentucky was not going to accomodate the Brown family. 
They moved to Bueno Park. California. "We lived thert" until­well, the houses were close to­gether," explains Brown, "and my 
brothers broke one too many 
windows playing baseball. So, my 
parents decided it was time to 
move again!" 
Eventually, they made their way to Riverside, California where they reside now. Ofcourse, the oldest being 3 7, the entire family does not reside at home. "The youngest is Vickie, she's 19. There are only five ofus at home now." Considering the number ofstatis­tics that Brown deals with when discussing her family, it's under­standable that once in awhile she pauses and does a few finger cal­culations. When the tallies are finally in, Brown explains, "Eight ofus are already married and there are 13 grandchildren." 
Four girls. _. eleven boys, hmmm, one might suspect that Mr. and Mrs. Brown were deter­mined to have their own football team. This may be the case. Every one ofthe Brown'boys has played, is playing, or is coaching football. Seven ofthem played college ball and at one time,John,Jim and Dennis played as linebackers for the same team -University of LaVerne in Pimona. 
How did Mrs. Brown manage to keep all ofthese athletes well­nourished? "By keeping the refrigerator full," says Brown. Actually, Mrs. Brown became so used to cooking for crowds that guests, friends . _. or entire teams were welcome at the Brown home. "There were already so many ofus that extras were hardly noticed," Brown adds. 
One advantage (or disadvan­tage, depending on one's perspec-Family traditions? Ofcourse, staying in touch with Mom and tive) to having so many siblings is Brown's family has its share. Dad, let alone brothers and sisters, that you never have to wait for the "Water fights," is one that comes imagine the job a "Brown out of school bus· alone. "There was quickly to her mind, "whenever town" would face. "I try to write always a brother or sister in we're all together, it always starts or call everybody," Brown swears, school with me." Teachers would up and eventually someone gets but as you know, either requires always know who th:: Browns thrown in the pool." At Thanksgiv-lots of time or money. Two pre­were, "You look just like a Brown" ing, the weaponry gets a little cious things for any student. is a comment Ellen heard fre-more sophisticated, "that's when Now to answer the question quently throughout grade school we have our traditional whipped that would be on anyone's mind. and high school. cream fight," laughs Brown.. _oh 


Holidays, as you might guess, well, so much for the pumpkin What's it really like to have 14 are quite a time in the Brown pie. brothers and sisters? Brown household. "Christmas is the best" The Brown family is clearly a seems to need a little reflection says Brown, "everybody comes contradiction to any psycholo-time to answer this question. "It's home!" Surprisingly enough, gist's theory that children in large hard to say," she comments. "I there's no name drawing when it families get lost in the crowd or guess I never considered what it comes to buying gifts at the feel like numbers. "We're all very would be like not to have so Yuletide, everyone buys some-close," says Brown, infact, "it was many.. .I mean I've never known thing for everyone else. "From really hard for me to come all the it any other way." Thanksgiving on, my poor mom is way to South Bend for school-I Ifthe truth be known, I don't practically at the stores eve::ryday, miss everybody a lot." think Brown Number 13 would open tiJ close. until Christmas." When most of us have difficulty want it any other way. 
----------------------~------~------------~ 
--------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------... 
~i~~~_{)__i_ll___t________________we_d_ne-sda-y,_Fe-br_u~--27-,1-98-5~-pa-~-6 

..
. 
Urban transit will suffer under Reagan's budget 
Railroading, the president said in his State of the Union address, should be returned to the private sector, where it belongs. But it has never been there, entirely. John Noonan, in his new book "Bribes," tells how our great railway system was driven across the con-
Garry Wills 
outrider 
tinent by a series of federal giveaways, oiled by bribes to senators. Land was granted, cavalry protection extended, the mails carried, naval preparations made at the Pacific shipping end. 
Nor were all the subsidies federal. Local areas tempted the railway across their special bit of tht' prairie by offering favorable rates or free facilities. These were investments in the future of the individual communities, but also political subsidies for the railroads. 
Well, one might say, that is just a particular blot on our history -though one that lies at the 
r 
very core ofour great economic expansion in the latter halfof the 19th century. So much for the idea that economic growth and govern­ment are at odds. In any event, why extend what was a corrupt bargain? Once in place, even if not at the outset, the railroads should make their own way, earn theis: own keep. 
The railroads did flourish, along with the in­ner cities they serviced, in the first half of the century. Of course, they did a booming busi­ness during World Warr II, transporting goods, troops and an increasingly mobile pop­ulation. 
The trains' troubles began not from pure market failure, but because ofgovernment in­trusion with new subsidies -subsidies for gas and tire and automobile and trucking com­panies; subsidies for shopping centers, subur­ban builders and highway contractors. All these sectors of the economy were given gov­ernment support by the building of the inter­state highway system. The trains suffered. 
Trains have to maintain their own tracks. Trucks do not have to lay their own highways. Cars now whiz around the inner cities, leaving the grand old hotels stranded next to empty train stations. This is not a result of market 
forces, but of government decisions that 
favored the new carriers as powerfully (and 
discriminatingly) as the land grants that 
favored the railroads. 

Then the government took its mail off the 
trains and put it on planes-a new form oftran­
sit whose development has been heavily sub­
sidized by government war research and 
contracts, by federal maintenance of rights of 
way and safety procedures. 

The very people who claim to resent gov­
ernment subsidies are backing huge expendi­
tures on the space shuttle. Apart form possible 
defense uses of this work, the "free en­
terprisers" of Silicon Valley point to future 
economic uses for space, just as towns out on 
the Indian plains gave city funds to the rail­. roads, hoping to cash in later. 
What we have, then, is not a division be­
tween market and subsidized activities, but 
between subsidies for development and sub­
sidies for maintenance. The difference is not 
between governmental action and inaction, 
but between government favoring business 
development and government favoring 
people and place. 

Looked at in the long term, the determiner 
ofeconomic outcome seems less an impartial 
umpire called the market than a putatively 
benign deity called success. The government, 
with all its resources, is to serve the tangible 
latter, while keeping clear of the mythical 
former. 

But maintenance of the railroads is mainte­
nance of many things as valuable as the poten­
tial earnings out in space or up in the air. It 
maintains the lives attracted to inner cities in 
the first place, then cut off by a fascination 
with new and shinier toys to chase. 
Urban transit is another major victim ofthe 
proposed Reagan budget -after having been a 
victim ofgovernment subsidies for roads, cars 
and suburbs. But total dependence on cars 
would be an expensive development -in 
terms of pollution, parking space, crowding 
and the further decay oflarge cities. These are 
not natural developments, but things the gov­
ernment can help to check, just as it helped to 
foster them. Chanting "the market" is a 
copout for those who do not want to make 
choices. 

(C) 1985, UNWERSALPRESSSYNDICATE 
We hold responsibility for our society's actions 
Henry Adams described politics as "the sys­tematic organization ufhatn:ds". This descrip­tion points to the level of emot10na!tMn .mJ the frequency of simplistic appeals in politics. Controversial political issues tend to.be more 
Pete Manzo 
father of the man 
often presented and most easily grasped in ab­solute terms like love or hate, and ofthese two the positive emotion is by far the rarer. 
All of us are at times emotional or hasty in making judgments. The masses of most societies, on the whole, are uncritical and lacking in discrimination, and so overlook the complexities of issues or are not appreciative ofthem. They are especially susceptible to the promulgation of simplistic positions or to emotional appeals, no matter how wildly con­structed, as Hitler's Germany clearly shows. It is alarming how many of the mosJ intelligent people fall into accepting simplistic or emo­tional views, either because of a lack ofvision or out ofsloth. 
A lecture given on apartheid by the South African Vice-Consul last Wednesday gave rise to some disturbing examples ofthe way emo­tions can hamper the proper treatment of is­sues. The audience interrupted the lecture for the beginning of a question and answer ses­sion that immediately deteriorated into a tense and emotional confrontation. Precisely because apartheid is such an emotional issue, better efforts to control the emotions con­nected with it were required. 
Undoubtedly, the moral outrage felt by the audience was genuine, and well warranted. The immorality of apartheid is undeniable, even the vice-consul would not defend it. Given this consensus, a more productive focus for discussion would have been the par­ticular options or strategies available for remedying the situation. Though moral protests ably serve good purposes, at times the declarations ofoutrage and condemnation at this lecture were superfluous in light ofthis consensus, and even appeared self-indulgent in some cases. They certainly distracted from discussion of strategies for dealing with apar­theid or from gaining an understanding ofthe official South African line. 
These displays showed a lack of social and political maturity to which we have all been parties at one time or another. While political theorists lament this common fault, politicos in almost all societies actively seek to exploit it, and thus worsen the dearth of political re­sponsibility. · 
ln order for political leaders to motivate the masses in democracies, and to dominate them as well in totalitarian states, the worth ofgoals and policies are presented as self-evident. 
;\1o~l d~pictton~ ,,f situations and issues as 
blat:k or whitt: ar•: deceptive, and moreover, 
Jrc most oftt>n intentionally so. 
A small example of the glossing over of complexity to which leaders resort and the governed succumb is President Reagan's recent reference to the U.S. supported contras fighting in Nicaragua as "freedom fighters", a common euphemism. A more truthful description would note that these "freedom fighters" include many "Sumocistas", sup­porters and members of the National Guard of Anastasio Somoza's brutal dictatorship. It would also mention that the Sandinista regime does not yet appear to have lost significant popular support. Disregarding for a moment the propriety of President Reagan's avowed aim of changing or removing the Sandinista government, it should be clear that a frank presentation of the realities of the situation would not be likely to engender public sup­port. 
A disturbing side to the effect that a simplis­tic, emotional, and many times deceiving approach has over a political body is that such a strategy may be necessary in order to sum­mon the will required for a certain endeavor. The same type of appeals to liberal Western values that couched nationalism and motivated the Allied populations in World War I were also useful in sustaining the Ameri­can people's commitmentin World War II and their acceptance ofthe Soviet Union as an ally. Attempts to present such-situations in all their complexity, or in their reality, would many times cause the society's resolution to be sickled o'er. 
The society does not yet exist where all the members have the awareness to perceive the common good in its various shades, and the required commitment to that good. Until then, the majority must be led, in some direc­tion. Indeed, given the limitations of the human intellect and the strength of our emo­tional component, democracy may seem a more unnatural system as compared with one which does nut expect its members to direct themselves. This is why I am so disappointed when I catch myself sliding into acceptance of surface distinctions or into emotionalism, and so frightened to see it in others. 
We must work hard to take some responsi­bility for the actions of our society, and try to be sober and critical in our judgments. We can practice this even with the smaller issues, such as an alcohol policy or student govern­ment election controversy. We at Notre Oame, especially, must realize that socializa­tion does not only include acqumng marketable skills and brushing up on rules of etiquette. 
Pete Manzo is a senior government major at Notre Dame and is a regular Vieupoint columnist. 
Got an opinion? Share it! 
Viewpoint would like to bearfrom you. Ifyou would like to respond to something you've read in Tbe Observer, why not write a letter to the editor. Letters should be well-written, typed, no more than 250 words in lengih and must bear tbe signatun> ofthe author. Letters which arp not signed by the author will not be pub­lisbed. 
But letters are not the only way to voice your opinion in Tbe Observer, Viewpoint also accepts guest columns. Guest columns should be well-written, typed, no mort> tban 500 words in length and must bear tbe signature of tbe autour. A guest column, unlike letter to tbe editor, should not be a direct rpsponse to another editorial. 
Both guest columns and letters to the editor can be mailed to The Obsen•er, P.O.Bo:x Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or delivered to either our Notre Dame office in LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office in Haggar College Center. Please includeyour telephone number. 
The Obset:ver-Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Editor-in-Chief. . .. Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . . .... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor . Mark Worscheh Controller . . . . . . . . . . .Dave Stephenitch The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News r=.dttor . . . Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Edttor ............ Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . . . Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Samt Mary's Edtlor . . . Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager. . . Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Editor... . M1chael Sullivan Producrion Manager. . ... Chns Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Vtewpotnt Ed1tor . . . . ... Dave Grote Project Manager . . . . . Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the Features Editor . . . Mary Healy 
community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. Photo Ed1tor. . . . . . . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 
"ielVP-_o_i_n_t~----------------------------------------W--ed_n_e_sd_a~y_,F_e_b_ru_ary~_2_7,_I_9_s_s_-~p~ag~e--7 
P.O. BoxQ 
Mouasher's definition 
Aside from denigrating, pestering and crip­cial meals with ethnic and holiday themes. who proclaimed jesus as the Son of the living In the last three years, many juniors have
pling the liberation Theologians he recently God; however, two verses later, jesus realizes uged students and workers in Peru not to fight attended Junior Parents' Weekend, which that Simon truly does not understand that be­
•

of integrity is unclear 
have been entirely catered by the food cause jesus is the Son ofGod, he must suffer. for their rights against armed oppressors but services. Most of these students will attest to Also in his article Gibson presents his DearEditor: to submit humbly to conditions of life un­the fact that jPW was exceptionally well readers with two reasons why women cannot 
In reading of the constant whinings and worthy of human beings. Yes, he requests the catered, given the size of the group. In the be ordained. In explaining why women are temper tantrums emitting from the OBUD heartless governments of Latin and Central past, caterers have been brought in from excluded from the priesthood, Gibson quotes offices, it is hard for me to understand Maher America to restore civil rights and to try to outside of the University because of the the Pope's "cogent explanation to the Na· Mouasher's definition of integrity and feed their starving populations, but then he quality of catering offered by on-campus tiona! Shrine of the Immaculate Conception." morality. How could Mouasher suggest that "urges and demands" that the progressive sources (or the lack thereof). Thus, under the Unfortunately I find no explanation for the ex· due to his position he may judge the integrity forces in such countries lay down their arms rubric of "specially catered events on elusion ofwomen from the priesthood in this and morality of Pat Browne and joanie Cahill? and submit to systematic annihilation. campus," the food services can also be seen as quotation. Gibson also claims that ifjesus had Not only that he may judge, but base his judge­On the one hand, he demands that progres­having made substantial improvements. wanted ordained women, he would have or­ment on the actions ofother. I defy Mouashcr sive priests and religious in the United States In addition, you might know that in the last dained his mother, Mary. From this statement to judge the integrity and morality of Browne and Nicaragua get out of J?Olitics -and boots three years both Corby Hall and Moreau Semi­it appears that Gibson believes that jesus and Cahill due to the ignorance and irrespon­them out if they don't -and then he himself nary have switched to University Food wanted men to be priests and therefore he or­sibility ofothers. plays a political game to the hilt. He regularly Services. The few Corby Hall residents and dained men. However in the New Testament, 
This attitude of" judging someone on the ac­intervenes in Polish affairs on behalf of trade Moreau seminarians I have talked to have no Christian is ever specifically identified as a tions of others is simply a generalization that unionists and nationalists while in Nicaragua found the change to the food services to have priest. Because Christianity originated as a any person with a thread of logic would view he sides with the right wing and says little or been for the better. sect ofJudaism, the early Christians probably as absurd, bar one. Despite the instructions of never considered replacing the jewish pries­Browne and Cahill, someone hung a poster in 

thood. In the Act of the Apostles, which was Walsh one hour before rules allowed; an over 
written around 85 A.D., the early Christians l zealous supporter wrote their name on a 
are reported to have gone to the Temple daily: I chalkboard, and another supporter, totally ig­
(Acts 2:46) In his book "Catholicism: Study j norant of the rules, put Browne's name in the 
Edition", Richard McBrien wrote "The pries­~ Hall minutes; and through investigation it was 
thood as we have come to know it represents ~ proven that the University property that was 
a fusion ofdifferent roles and ministries which damaged "to the tune of S300" was damaged 
are to be found in the New Testament 
' 
prior to the Browne campaign. These truly 
churches." (p. 802)jesus did not directly or­heinocs acts, this "serious breach ofrules" did 
dain women as priests, nor did he directly or­occur, yet when Browne and Cahill shoulder 
dain men as priests. the responsibilty for what others did against 
Unfortunately some of the information in their wishes, it is then that their integrity and 
Gibson's article is historically inaccurate and morality is questioned. The way I see it, it 
all ofhis arguments are unconvincing. takes more integrity to face up to one's 
julie Popham 

mistakes, admit you were wrong and keep 
Badin Hall 

pushing forward than to quit and whine over your predicament, the latter which seems to 
Catholics should be
be much in vogue these days. 
Although Mouasher considers himself the authority on this campaign controversy let me 
educated in their faith correct him on the most serious charge 
DearEditor:
against Browne and Cahill, concerning a fail­This letter is in response to Mark Gibson's
ure to report campaign expenditures, and 
article, "Role of Papal Authority Showsquestion his reasoning. First, 1000 platforms Christ's Teachings," which appeared in thenot 200 platforms were printed causing Feb. 21,1985 edition ofThe Observer.
Browne to exceed campaign funds by $1 5 and First, as for his statements on artificial birthnot S25. These were printed, yet if I under­
control, I doubt whether the rigors of thestand the rules correctly, it is when these ma­
rhythm method can be followed by all Cat­terials are used to further a candidate's holics who do not have the resources to raisecampaign that the candidates are held ac­a large family and who desire a form of birthcountable for their expenses. I believe Mouas­control. If rhythm is not possible, another ac­her received a receipt for those posters used ceptable option is abstinence. Is that "natural"in the Browne/Cahill campaign and therefore 
should have no interest on any of Browne's nothing about the murder ofMonsignor Oscar These three examples document only a for a married couple? Shouldn't personal deci­Romero, the Archbishop of San Salvador. His percentage of the substantial food and food sions such as the use ofbirth control be made
personal accounts except those earmarked for use in his campaign effort. Those posters visit to Nicaragua, in particular gave aid and service changes that have occurred under by an informed couple based on their own comfort to the forces of reaction and Reagan Hickey's leadership. However, it has been my consciences and circumstances, and not have
which Henry Sienkiewicz claims to have seen were not used to further the Browne/Cahill contras, while he systematically and relent­observation that The Observer has not only a summary judgment and condemnation lessly undermined the popular and highly taken this winning team for granted but also handed down from Rome? 
campaign. Looked at in this way, Browne did 
Christian revolution. A fervent nationalist has somewhat sensationalized certain The next issue I differ from Gibson is that of
not exceed his campaign expenditure. If Browne wanted such a large number of cam­when it comes to his own homeland, he wears negative aspects of it. Perennially, The women priests. Culture and tradition in the a different mask in the Americas. Observer has given them unfitting and unkind first century in the Middle East were quite
paign platforms to be printed covertly for the 
press. constraining. As for why Christ did not ordainprinciple ofcheating, why have the Copy Cen­Mary, who are we to question why and deter­
ter in O'Shaughnessey, which hundreds of Yes indeed, "he is a historical person carry­Since it is my philosophy to compliment as people walk by every day including the OBUD ing a share of prejudices and human frailty." well as criticize the efforts of a person or or­mine His motives? I doubt it was because wo­ganization, I feel obliged to compliment both men are not suited to the priestly vocation.
rules committee, print them? Would it not be And we shall all pay for it. 
Hickey and the food services on their per­But there are other issues here. According
safer to have "contraband" posters printed up William G. Storey tinent and pleasing improvements over the to the "Declaration on the Question ofthe Ad­
off-campus away from the Sienkiewicz and Professor ofChurch History impor­mission ofWomen to Ministerial Priesthood,"
Mouasher microscope? Before Mouasher last three years but also, and more tantly, on their constant effort to improve. (October 1 5, 1976) priests must bear a
points his moral finger ofintegrity at someone 
Thanks to Bill Hickey 
Stephen Smith "natural resemblance" to Christ. Well, womenI wish he would bother to view situations in Alumni Hall do: they are human. Th(" fact that the Secondsome way other than unidimensional. 
on improvement effort 
Person of the Trinity became human, joining the entire human family to God, is much moreBoth Browne and Cahill deny that they important then whether the Christ was to be
DearEditor:
were desperate to protect their integrity and 
Gibson is inaccurate, 
female or male.
There are two signs that a winning teamto have the election rigged so that'they would 
Some competent women feel called to
makes manifest in one manner or another:lose. I do not think that friendships won out 
unconvincing in article 
Catholic priesthood, but are unable to even
first, the team has a strong leader who setson the senate vote to keep the Browne/Cahill test their vocation. And the Church as a wholegoals, creates the means to achieve thoseticket in the election. I think that common 
DearEditor: would benefit from the ordination ofwomen.
goals, and subsequently, achieves them.
sense kept the Browne/Cahill ticket alive and On Feb. 21, Mark Gibson's article concern­With a decreasing number of priests, theSecond, the team is constantly trying to im­to take the election out of the hands of the ing tht> role ofpapal authority appeared in The Church hierarchy may eventually have toprove.
truly irresponsible and put it into the hands of Observer. After reading Gibson's article, I choose between ordaining women (andNotre Dame Food Service is just such
students who may use realistic logic and un­a now understand why the Theology Depart­married people) or denying Eucharist, theteam and William j. Hickey, the director, isderstanding to view the election and not the ment recently changed it s requirements so all "source and summit" of our Chrisitian exis­just such a leader. Before you skip to the nextnearsighted muckrakings ofthe frustrated and 
Notre Dame students would have to take a tence, to people living in sparsely populated
letter, hear me out. Because this editorial shalldiscontent. 
class in Catholicism. areas.
compliment a job well done, it is a type oflet­
Mike Riley 
In the beginning of his article, Gibson A final point of difference with Gibson is onter that I have seen rarely in our community
StanfordHall 
claimed "the Church has taught from the his statement of papal authority. "The Holy
newspaper in my four years here. beginning that the doctrine of papal infal­Spirit safeguards the Church from false
Bill Hickey has been a strong leader who libility originates in the Gospel." Unfortun­doctrine," states Gibson. But the Church is the
has set a goal (to have the best university food ately Gibson is not well informed on Church people of God, not just members of a
Pope is historical being 
service program in the country) and he has 
history or on the gospels. Papal infallibility hierarchy. The true teachings of Christ need
been and apparently is now having his team of was officially approved by the Roman Catho­not come simply through the Church
showing human frailty 
the University Food Services implement the lic Church in 1870 by Vatican I, not from the hierarchy. There are many other Catholics
DearEditor: changes necessary to achieve this goal. In the beginning of Christianity. While quoting Mat­with developed consciences and with the
Ann Pettifer's trenchant article on the cur­last three years, Hickey and his team have thew 16:19-20 in which Jesus renames Simon ability and desire to explore the wondrous
rent Pope did not go far enough, in my made many improvements in our eating envi­as Peter, Gibson does not include Matthew teachings ofChrist on their own.
opinion. As disgraceful as his internal inter­ronment which have been subtle but substan­16:23 which apparently occurred at the same Gison, however, ends on a note I agree withventions against Hans Kung and Edward Schil­tial. 
In our eating place and during the same discussion: "But hr: fully. Catholics must be educated in their faith
lebeeck have been, his impolitic, unbalanced "everyday environment" 
turned and said to Peter, "Get behind me, and more understanding of its varied and
and prejudicial interventions in Latin America changes range from the salad bar with its vari­Satan! You are an obstacle in my path, because wondrous aspects.
have been worse. Is he really in cahoots with ety of vegetable toppings, cheeses, and 
the way you think is not God's way but man's." Eileen E. O'Brien
the American State Department or does he yogurts, to the cereal bar which has been In Matthew 16: 19-20, jesus praises Simon Notre Dame graduate student
just look like it? upgraded in both quantity and quality, to spe­

J 
1 
, I 
' 
I 
i ~ 
\ 
' 
I \ 
Sports Briefs 
NVA wrestling tournament participants may 
attend open practice sessions throughout this week from 6:30p.m. to 9:30 p.m. in the ACC Pit. A mandatory weigh-in will be held on Sunday from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. Anyone who fails to weigh in and 
The ND Water Polo Club wm be meeting for produce insurance information at that time will not be eligible for practice tonight at II p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Building. the tournament. The tournament will be held March 5, 7 and 1I. · Anyone who is interested may attend. Club members should bring The Observer S7 to order team shirts. For more information, call Mike at 283-1471. 
· The Observer 

Buder University's Sigma Nu Fraternity will sponsor a 24-hour, 50-man relay starting tonight at 7 p.m. at the ACC to raise 
An open broomball tournament, to be money for Special Olympics. The fraternity members will run the played in sneakers, will be held by NVA on Saturday from 3:45p.m. 150 miles to the Butler Fieldhouse with a basketball, arriving in time to 6:45 p.m. The deadline to register rosters ofsix or more players is for the tipoffofthe Notre Dame-Butler basketball game tomorrow at today at the NVA office. · The Observer 7:30p.m. ·The Obvserver 
USFL Standings 
UNITED STATES FOOTBAll LEAGUE EASTERN CONFERENCE 
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Birmingwn  1  0  01.000  38  28  
Jacksonville  1  0  01.000  22  14  
Memphis  1  0  01.000  20  3  
TarrpaBay  1  0  01.000  35  17  
Baltimore  0  1  0  000  14  22  
New Jersey  0  1  0  .000  28  38  
Orlando  0  1  0  .000  7  35  
WESTERN CON FE RENCE  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Arizona  1  0  01.000  9  7  
Houston  1  0  01.000  34  33  
Oakland  1  0  01.000  31  10  
Denver  0  1  0  .000  10  31  
Los Angeles  0  1  0  .000  33  34  
Portland  0  1  0  .000  7  9  
San Antonio  0  1  0  .000  3  20  

The Ohsert•er Notn: Dame offin·. h)(.:ated on the third floor of l.al'ortunt: Student Ct:ntt·r. a<.Tepts classified advcrti!>ing from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.. :o.tonday through Friday. The Ohserz'f!r Saint Mary's offin·. lontt:d on the third tloor of Uaggar Collegt: Ct:ntt:r. an·t:pts dassifkds from l.L'>O p.m. unlll ·"p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for nt:xt-~ay dassifieds i;. 3 p.m. All dassifieds must ht· prt:paid. either in person or hy mail.< :harge is Io l't:nts pt·r fin: chara<.·­
Classifieds 
tt'rs er dav. 

TO WHOMEVER TOOK MY WALLET I URGENTLY NEED 5 TICKETS TO THE " .AND WHERE ARE YOUR TO THAT BLONDE GIRL in world JOHN TYLER playing at the NAZZ Satur­FROM THE ROCKNE LOCKERS· YOU WASHINGTON GAME. MONEY NO OB­NATIONALS?"-LETS GET MAD AND religions wearing the Jr. class shirt did you day. March 2 at 9pm. 
CAN KEEP ANY MONEY IT CONTAINS, JECT STEVE 1653 GO FOR IT GIR LS' notice anyone scoping you during class? I BUT PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE think you're pretty cute and would like to Need ride or nders to Mobile for break. LOST & FOUND OFFICE OR 520 Need 2 Wash. GA's call Tom 1022 RADICAL! SEE SURF INS. BEND-'BIG meet you. If you·re interested wear som• Share usual. X 1918. FLANNER. I'D APPRECIATE IT VERY WEDNESDAY"··THURS IN CHATAU­thing red to class or meet me in the pan­
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 

MUCH. I NEED 3 WASHINGTON GA's. x4197 QUA neled O'Shag lobby Thur. at 10:15 am TO EZ. Happy Birthday to the Atomic Dog ask for Mike. ·JAM of Howard, this is your day and all we canTYPING AVAILABLE 
My Black Beret' My Black Beretl Where ........... IOWA IOWA IOWA (Iowa State that IS) I ........... say is "Dorl'tdo it!" Be good. we'll see you 
287-4082 will I find My Black Beret? To have it back WANTED FOUR GA TICKETS TO THIS need a ride to that greet state with 3 EVERYBODY, I MEAN EV·ER·Y·BOD­Saturday night. Six Dogs from Flanner Is all that I ask. You know that it was A SUNDAY'S BASKETBALL GAME. syllables and only 4 letters in its name. I yyyy LOVES BILL, THAT'S B-I·L·L, "Vrai Basque." Merci Beaucoup! Call PLEASE HELP A GUY THAT can leave anytime this Friday. Call Terri WEILER .... YOU CAN TDO-JOINEXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 

Fred 1636 at 163 Dillon. EVERYBODY LOVES......BILL at 4570. "THE" CULTl!l!ll!lllll! BILL WEILER IS A GIFT TO WEILER. CALL HIM AT 288-4637 EVERYBODY UNDER GOD'S BLUE WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING 
lost: gold necKlace with single pearl.. Aide needed to CHICAGO We took a fishhead out to see a movie. SKY......I DON'T KNOW ABOUT YOU 272-8827 great sentimental value. ln. nile at k. of c. MARQUETTE TICKETS!!! I NEED 4·6 (Evanston/Northwestern) Thursday af­We had to pay to get her in. -LF & SF BUT I LOVE HIM!!!! date n1te. please call smc4326 please MARQUETTE GA'S FOR MY FUTURE ternoon, Feb. 28. Please call Fred atEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
EMPLOYER THIS FORTUNE 500 COM­1717. OUT?!! WHAT DO YOU MEAN, OUT ?!I WE'RE READY TO HANDLE WHAT WE MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
PANY HAS PLENTY OF MONEY. CON· THINK IS COMING.. MIDWEST DEAD!!' TACT GEORGE AT 283· 2094. PLEASE SKI VAIL COLO SPRING BREAK Condo ScoreTyping/Word Processing· also copying. 
sleeps 41, Ful Kitch, FRPL, Jaccuzi, Pool. MeOCaU Andrea· 9-11pm or whenever. 283· 
FOR RENT Needed: Marquene Tix Call1605 "Pete" LV M56 303·665·2700 Nobody Else 0 DO IT UP IF ISH! 
3880. 

Hey Senlora, let'l pany!l Where: SMC TODAY ONLY WOADPROCESSING 
NOW RENTING FOR NEXT SCHOOL Clubhouse MATI DONAHER: Hi it's me again. I Case of 1ollaxell XLII'a 277-6045 
YEAR • 4, 5 & 6-BDRM. HOMES. COM· wrten: Wednesday, Feb. 27 from 9-1 haven'tforgonen about you. In fact I'm still Only $231!1 PLETEL Y FURN. INCL. WASHER & FOR SALE $3 all you can drink. 21 10 required. quite interested. I'm working on a rendez­Today only at Rock duLac, Notre Oame·s DRYER 234·9364 vous dat• -it should be in the Personals record store. First fiQOI' LaFortune. 
Student Available lor Babysitting • LOVE 
JUNIOR CLASS AT BACKSTAGE! WED· quite soon! 
KidS and Dogs· can between 7 and 9 am. We hear that N.D. HOCKEY PLAYERS
.... ................................... . 
Nice semi-furnished house, 3/4 students, NESDAY FEB.27,10PM!! 
Usa 283·3033. have bigger sticks. When do we get to find
SPRING CLEANING Students available 255-3684/288-o955. 
for Housecleaning! We will take on any To the wench who tore down my Big Chill out?
FREE SM. DRINK WHEN YOU ORDER
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO ORDER THE TASK· LARGE or smaH! call Usa B• poster at the St. Ed's SYR: I saw you run­
Nice 2 student semi-furnished house, A SUB. CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR Mary ENen Harrington
NEW YORK TIMES. THE WORLD'S 1 tween 7 and 9am at 283·3033. ning up the stairs. so I know you weren't Typesetter Extraordinaire 
288-09551277-3604. FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MQ-TH 8·
NEWSPAPER. FOR ONLY 35 CENTS A carrying a concealed screwdriver. Still,
11 pm FA-SA 8pm-1 am Just a note of thanks for the courage and DAY. CONTACT GEORGE DEVENNY AFFORDABLE HOUSE NEAR NOTRE I've got $5 for you. Hopefuly you've got 
dedication above and beyond the call of AT 145 STANFORD HALL 283-2094 DAME. TIP-TOP CONDITION. CALL $15 for me. because that's how much it'll 
Theo Majora and other lnt81'Mtecl per­duty you displayed in doing all that 
cost me to replace it. Call Adam at 1717
NOW FOR BEST PRICE. PERFECT aone: Don't mlu the preeentatlon on stylebook work.
WANTED 

FOR STUDENTSIFACULTY 234-Q-465. and make my day. Remember-I don't 
Buddhlem given by your fellow etu· -a 
want your name, jull your money. 
denta... Maureen Jonee, Gary 
Kopyclnakl and Kevin Mc:AieYy: Need extnl $$$$for aprtng br•k?
lOST/FOUND 

tonftht at 10 pm In 341 O'Shag. Andr•somyshovelbuddytoldyouitwasme
We'll pay you to help enter the results 
ismycoverblown?from our Readership Survey. 
PERSONALS
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CANREWARD! $50.00 offered lor brown 

BISHOP WIWAMMCMANUS
LEAVE ANY nME AFTER THURSDAY

Sampsonite hard suitcase. Luggage tag of No special skills required. HEY GUATEMALA KID Have a hit tor
MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE says Douglas Snell. call John on days or 

Fort Weyne-South hnd Work on your own time. mel Juat -ntecl to My high. YourUSUAL. CALL MIKE AT x17.. 5. 
dispatcher evenings at United Limo 
apeekaon (Aimoet) anyone is eligible. BUFFALO friend PLEASE. 674-6993 or 255-3068 
"THE AMERICAN ECONOMY 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN 
AND Interested? Contact Amy Stephan at the ··········· .......... . 
LEAVE ANY nME AFTER THURSDAY
HELP!!!! I lost a large rineatone old­THE BISHOP'S LETTER" Observer office (3rd floor ol LaFortune) NEED A RIDE TO MILWAUKEE THIS
Native New Englanders seek freedom of MORNING, MARCH 1 ... WILL SHARE

fashioned clip somewhere at the JPW Tonight for details. WEEKEND. CALL 2038
Midwea1ern mentality. Need ride home 

USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x17..5. anytime. Call3884 to prevent extinction of 
cocktail dance on Friday; much,much 7:00PM 
sentimental value!!!! If found. or know of Howard Hall You can never have too much protection. 
piece of mind.

its wh«eabouts call Linda at 277-6856 ALL INVITED ATLANTA RIDER WANTED TO HELP RENT CAR
GET AWAY!! need riders to WE WANT YOU!!! 

LOST· Carner~~ flail TO ATLANTA FOR BREAK. CALL REG MU
Ctevelanci,Western NY for this weekend

On the a-oas country course bacK by the AT 1153 AFTER MIDNITE. 
call2894 

Student Government needs people who R8WIII'd: 1 six pack. want to make a difference! BUS: Sign ups this WED night at 7pm 
cemetary. If found please call 284·5186. LONG ISLAND CLUB SPRING BREAK 
JOHN F. SHE WANTED YOUR LOWER She's a blond bombshell from N-YorkNEED RIDERS to PGH., WESTERN PA. 
Applicati0fl8 for STUDENT GOVERN­Lafortune lobby. Round Trip $73. Bus will 
UP BAD She's a Wild Woman of Walsh this weekend. can Terri 277-7455. 
MENT CABINET positions for Bill Healy
LOST; Navy blue doll, N.D. mascot. last stop at Hempstead Greyhound terminal 
She's 21 years old seen after P.W.ILEWIS intra mural bball and ISLIP bus terminal. The bus will leave 
and Duane lawrence's Cabinel are now 
TO GRETCH OUR PRESIDENT TODAY But what is she doing to celebrate?
PASSENGER WANTED TO HELP W/ 

available in the 2nd floor LaFortune GAS & TOLLS.GOING TO PHIL.A.AREA
game. Gym 4, ACC. Tuesday, Feb 19. Fri. Mar 15, at 6:15pm. For more info call THE ALASKAN WONDER TURNS 19. Happy birthday. Laurie! 
offices.

Much sentimental value. she was a Pete 2453. or Kathleen 2905. 
YOU HAVE BEEN VOTED 1 AMONG The Walsh Women 3/15 RETURN 3/24. CALL MIKE 2n­
Applicati0fl8 are due no later then 6463
birthday present. Please call Barb at THE SECOND SEMESTER GIRLS AND 
FRIDAY, MARCH 8 (the week prior to4238. 
ARE THE BEST SLUSSY THIS CAMPUS ................ ... ........... .................. . 
Spring Break). "WHAT YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO 
HAS EVER SEEN. HOPE THIS DAY IS If you·re blue and you don't know where toRIDE NEEDED TO I.U.·BLOOMINGTON 
Come out and help us rebuild Student KNOW ABOUT THE OPPOSITE SEX
LOST· Carner~~ flail AS SPECIAL AS YOU MAKE ALL OF go to, Why don't you go where faah1on
March 1 OR. wiH rent car-so if you -ntto 

Government!!! BUT WERE AFRAID TO ASK" Find out
On the a-oas country course back by the OURS LOVE, YOUR FUTURE sits--PUTIIN' ON THE RITZ!! 
leave behind the South Bend Blues call WED, FEB 27 AT 7:00PM IN CARROLLcemetery. If found please call 284-5186. 

ROOMATESADMike 1581 or Ed 1160 WE NEED 
HALL'S PARTY ROOM
R8WIII'd: 1 six pack. 

TO THE BLONDE IN 308 CARROLL.
RIDERS! 

IIICK JAGGER's solo album She's the DAN FLORIN I had a good lime but you YOUR SMILE MADE MY DAY! THANKS. 
Boss now on sale at Rock Ou Lac. Notre Ski Colorado
LOST: In the corridor under the stands at left too soon. ld like to see you again. J.D.
Ride needed to Addison, ll or surround· Dame·s record store. 1st floor LaFortune .

the ACC ice rink; a black 'CCM' hockey Your Computer Date ing WEST (Chicago) SUBURB. Can 
SpnngBreak
helmet (21 on back). Probably left there ONLY 20 MORE DAYS UNTIL PALMleave Fri. 3/1 early afternoon. call Linda 
No Jacket Required. Phil Colllne·s new Need skiers to share expenses for condo 
after the Pangborn-Aiumni game (1 9 AI DERS needed to Chicago/lincoln Park SPRINGS! REAL SUN. REAL FUN,
-3749. 

solo album is on sale now at Rock du Lac. in Breckenridge. 
Feb). Has the name "Jay SuUivan" on it. area. leaving Friday 3/1 and returning WHAT A UFEI THE TOWN WILL NEVER Call Tim at x2367. 
1st floor LaFortune. Stop by and check Cynthia 284 • 5334 Ride Needed to MADISON. WI this 
out our discount prices on albums. cas­weekend. Able to leave after 2:00 on 
senes. andblank tapes. March 1 . Return anytime March 3. Will
Lost: Gold robe chain with solid gold nug­get medalion. Possibly lost in the ACC SENIOR FORMAL TIX on sale today at
share usual. call Jay at 1655. 

Thursday night in the indoor soccer tourn· LaFortune and LeMans from 5 to 7 pm. RIDE NEEDED -PURDUE UNIVER·
ament near gym one or two upstairs. Sen­$56 includes cocktail hour. dinner, and timental value and reward is offered$$$$. dance.
SITY Leave Friday afternoon Please call 
Tom x3082 If found please call Mike Viracola at 283­

4100 anytime. Karen, Kathy. Dorene, and Kathy CHICAGO 
GOLD ID Bracelet at Brigdet's or Corby TequilaRIDE NEEDED NORTHWEST SUB­
URBS OR O'HARE LEAVING 3·1. WILL 
SHARE EX. 284-4404 

Street CAll 5118 ask for Cethyann Kahlua 
Tequ1la LOST: Grey leather jacket at Senior Bar Kahlua Friday Night. School ID. Keys. and THINK SO. PADRE! 
NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OH this Drivers License in the pocket. REWARD. THINK MEXICO! 
weekend 
Can leave anytime Friday, March 1. 
Please call Tracy at 284-5185 Will share 
expenses. Thanks. 

phone:3567 lisa 
LOST SINGLE-STRAND PEARL Lou, Debbie, and Terry NECKLACE Please!! Please!!!! Call You. too, are loved. Jodie 1669lost on campus grounds 
found; one pair of women·s glasses out HEY blond CHEG jr. from BP who front of DiMon in a snow bank. If you lost a TICKETS brunched With Acct at JPW, call20971ate pair call Man 1181 and s~~e if they·re yours. SOME ADVICE FOR THE MIDWEST 
HELP!!! BOUND SWIMMERS: EVA--GO THE LOST AND FOUND: ONE UMBRELLA My parents have never seen an NO bas· OISTANCF. SUZANNE. KAREN. & AT CHAT AQUA VIDEO DANCE SATUA· ketball game. MONICA-YOU ROOMIES CAN'T LOSE. DAY NIGHT. If you m1splaced your blue and I'm about to graduate! BOSS--BILL'S READY. ARE YOU? umbrella and/or mistakenly took myblack If you have any available GA's for a VENETIE--GO FOR THOSE TIMS (I umbrella. please give me a call. Keith weekend game. MEAN TIMES) PEARL--DON T FOAG X1057. call Lorie at 28 1 0 • Today' ET THE BANANAS PJ--GO STINGRAY. 
(I'm a bit r:J a pup. so money is no object.) YOU'RE READY. NANCY--GO FOR IT FOUND: Pair of eyeglasses outside of CHIC BARB-JUST BLAISE IHRU THE south dining hall appeared during thaw. WATER (NO PUN INTENDED) MONICA· Frame and lenses are in pretty bad condi· ad NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR WASHING· -NO GRACE. JUST SWIM FAST AMY··"I lion. but could have sentimental value. TON GAME. PLEASE CALL HELEN DON T KNOW' WHAT YOU KNOW. BUT Makes for good "Tootsie" Impersonation 3505. I KNOW WE'LL SW IM SOME when worn upside down Call 3828 for AWESOME TIMES. ALLISON--GET demonstration. WANTED: 2 GAs for the Washington PSYCHED' ANDREA AND COLLEEN-· 
game call284-4230 LET ·s DO IT UP! GOOD LUCK-LETS FOUND: Ladies· watch. Call Steph 3468 GONDIFISH!!! 
I 

Wednesday, February 27, 1985-page 8 
Sunday evening. Cell Cindy at 284·5098. BE THE SAME. 
Get personal. 
And help fight MS at the same time. 
··-------,-----1
For the next week, The Observer 
I I 
teams up with the "Millions against MS" I Coupon lI campaign to raise funds to combat this I 
Place a classifieddisabling neurological disease. 
order by Tuesday, 1Just use this coupon before March 5th March 5, and receive .J
to save 50 cents on your next classified order ... and better yet, we'll match your savings by sending 50 cents to the fight 
SOC off 
against MS. 
your order. And TheYou save money, and the MS Society Observer will matchbenefits as well. And Notre Dame and your savings andSaint Mary's come a step closer to send soc to the fightwinning an MTV-sponsored concert. 
against MS. Offer ex­Hurry! Offer ends Tuesday. 
pires at 3 p.m. March 

5, 1985. Limit: one 
coupon  per order.  
Minimum  order:  
$1.50.  

L------------~ 
• t • ~ . 
' ' ' ' . ' 
The Observer Wednesday, February 27, 1985-page 9 
Major league baseball studies future expansion 
Associated Press ously, they would have to decide the to do 2-2-and-2 with a 2-3 year gap next year, the National League put base, marketability, climate and number ofteams involved." between every two teams," Stone franchises in New York and Hous­proximity to other major league 
Queued up like Little Leaguers at Before any of this can be done, says. "Six new teams represents 150 ton. But no franchises have been franchises. the general admission window, po­however, the owners' management additional major league players. -It added since 1977, when the Ameri­tential franchise cities are waiting team must agree on procedures with takes time to bring along that much can League moved into Toronto anp "It seems to me the best way to patiently for baseball to start selling the players' union as a part of talent." Seattle. determine the competition is not to tickets to the major leagues. negotiations on a new basic agree­Baseball began expanding from its look at who is the most aggressive 
Standing in line are the good ment. traditional eight teams in 1961 with Stone believes a final decision on pursuer but rather to look at which people of Denver, the central "The main purpose of this would American League clubs in Washing­expansion will come down to a set cities represent the most logical ex­Florida metropolitan area ofTampa­be to get agreement on both sides on ton and ,southern California; the of criteria that includes population pansion areas," Stone says. St. Petersburg and their neighbors to how the proceedings would take the south in Miami. place," Brown says, "so we would 
The Washington, D.C., contingent not have to reopen negotiations all 
McGuire comments on Knight's
just got in line, and some citizens of over again in the event expansion Phoenix, Ariz., and northern New took place." jersey have arrived. Then there are Assuming all this is taken care of­
troubles this year as Hoosier coach 
the groups from Indianapolis, Buf­and there's no reason to suppose it falo and Vancouver, British Colum­won't be -then the question of Associated Press terview from Washington, D.C., "I protest of a foul called on one of his bia. "when" can be answered. Soon personally think he's been on an players, McGuire said there was "no 
"Go from East to West, North to thereafter, baseball can start selling INDIANAPOliS -Indiana basket­emotional roller coaster, and I think possible way you can accept South," American League President those tickets. ball coach Bob Knight appears to be the two-year run into the Olympics bowling for dollars. I just hope the Dr. Bobby Brown says, "... I'd be The most likely scenario, and one "on an emotional roller coaster," has to be a strain. (Indiana) administration and Duke surprised ifwe didn't hear from all of generally painted by the expansion and his uncompromising demand "I know that in coaching -even and the Big Ten understand that them." candidates themselves, would add for perfection "might eventually when I was coaching, and I was one Coach Knight made a tremendous 
two teams in the National League, become an albatross," AI McGuire of the relaxed ones -your neck's sacrifice in coaching the Olympicslike death, taxes and Sunday 
giving both leagues 14 teams. It said Tuesday. popped out and there's a tenseness in L.A. It wouldn't have been that double-headers, major league ex­seems 1987 would be the earliest "Every other coach is happy when in your shoulders. I can just imagine much of a thing coaching them in pansion has become unavoidable. 
possible year for the first wave ofex­they win. But Coach Knight seems (the strain on Knight). He's really Tokyo, or London, or Munich, or The questions are when and where. 
pansion, but 1988 is more likely. only content when it's done right. put three seasons back to back with­Mexico City. But this was in your"Expansion will come without 
Denver and one of three Florida You'll see certain games, they'll be out a bust out, without getting away own backyard (with the Olympicquestion," Commissioner Peter sites have emerged as the favorites 20 up and he's going on like a Nean­from it. I think that might be a major Trials in Bloomington) and it was aUeberroth says. "When? I feel it will to receive first-wave franchises. derthal man. He's coaching against contributing factor," McGuire said. long, tedious run (for Knight).
be soon, but by that I mean over the A second wave of either two or the game. He doesn't know how to On Sunday, Knight apologized for "Obviously something will be nex~ two to five years. Exactly when, 
four teams -evenly split between the accept mediocrity." the incident in a formal statement done," McGuire continued. "I don't the owners will have to determine. 
leagues -probably would occur in Knight, who coached the U.S. gold released through the university's know what." 
My guess is it will be two teams first, 1990 oreven later. The prime candi­medal team in the Los Angeles sports information office. Athletic McGuire described an interview then four for a total of 32." 
dates for these entries look like Olympics last summer, was Director Ralph Floyd is preparing a he had with Knight for NBC in Mon­
Ueberroth and Brown are among Washington, Indianapolis, Phoenix, reprimanded by the Big Ten Confer­report to the Big Ten, which will tana a week after the Olympics. nine members of a Long Range Plan­Buffalo, New Jersey and Vancouver. ence in the fall for missing the an­then decide what action, if any, to "Bobby seems to like me ... I ning Committee empanelled in Au­Asecond team also could be located nual pre-season coaches' meeting. take, Commissioner Wayne Duke talked about being Alexander the gust 1983 to study the possibility of in Florida. And Knight faces possible further said. Great. He started to cry. Here's a adding to the 26 clubs that already "The problem is trying to staff six league action stemming from last McGuire said Knight's indication man who has done everything. comprise major league baseball. The new franchises at once with Saturday's ejection from a game that the incident stemmed from his There's not any other mountains to committee is to study the feasibility players," says Martin Stone, owner of against Purdue, when he received frustration with Big Ten officiating is climb, battles to fight. He said some­ofadding from two to six teams. the Phoenix Giants and head of that three technical fouls and angrily plausible. thing that's really an insight into 
Brown says that once baseball for­city's efforts to obtain a big league threw a chair across the court. "Bob looks for perfection. I don't Coach Knight-'it's the game. I com­mally announces its decision to ex­team. McGuire, former Marquette think it's possible for refs to hit the pete against the game' -he's per­pand, "then they would have to "You're spreading the available coach and now a basketball analyst limits Bob expects, expects for him­fected his coaching style to such a decide the time frame. Third, obvi-talent pretty thin, so you may want for NBC-TV, said in a telephone in-selfand his team. degree, it might eventually become 



IT'S NOT TOO LATE!!! The Student Activities Board 
THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT 
is your answer to Spring Break 
RELAX ••• aTe've done this before: 
• 
Free refreshments on bus 

• 
Free Parties 


• 
St. Patrick's Celebration 

• 
White Sox Baseball 

• 
Afternoon Boat Excursion 

• 
DePaui-Northwestern Parties 

• 
At the Sheraton Yankee Treder 

• 
Free Refreshments on Bus 

• 
St. Patrick's Day Celebration 

• 
Optional trips to Walt Disney World Epcot Center 

• 
Sun and Fun 

• 
Free Parties 

• 
At the Plaza Hotel 



Sign up at the Record Store 
BALANCE DUE!! 
(in LaFortune) 

"Another thing I think is creatinga an albatross, (because) I don't think strain on Coach Knight is he's been the game can be that perfected," involved in saying certain teams in McGuire said. 
the Big Ten are cheating," said "You can't get to that level. You're McGuire, referring to the reason dealing with kids, you're dealing Knight was believed to have with intangibles, with referees. boycotted the conference pre­There are so many things, you can­season meeting. "Where he started not govern them all. I think that may wearing a white hat in this, it seems be one ofthe problems. to be affecting him more than the "It's been what he's done at West othercoaches he says are cheating." Point and Indiana that got him there. 
Regarding Saturday's incident, Maybe it's time to readjust a couple which stemmed from Knight's degrees," McGuire said. 
Scholastic Magazine is now 
accepting applicationsfor thefollowing positions: 
* 
News Editor * Fiction Editor 

* 
Sports Editor * Advertising Editor 

* 
Features Editor * Distribution Manager 


Applications due Friday, March 1 and are available at the Scholastic Office, 




UJbrICniglJt& oftltrC!Ia&tl£ 
Men's Hair Styling at its finest... minutes from campus ! 

s 
OOHAIRCUTS 
Haircut, 

shampoo, 212-0312 
& blowdry

277-1619 
545.H rerracc: Lane 
$8.50

(St. Rd. 23) Aero~ from Martin's (hair must be shampooed day ofcut) 
We are only minutes from campus ! 
, 

Castaneda contributes both talent and spirit to Saint Mary's fencing 
\ . 
I 
I ' 
I 
~. 
\ 
~ 
\ 
\ . 
) \ 
~ j 
~ \ ~ ~ 
hI. 
l 
l 
I i I 
i I ·' 
j 
\ 
) 
J. 
J 
I 
I 
1 
The Observer Wednesday, February 27, 1985-page 10 
the Saint Mary's campus," says Notre Dame fencing coach Mike DeCicco who also helps out the Belles. "She gives unselfishly of herself to all the kids ofthe Saint Mary's team." 
Castaneda began fencing as a junior at Culver Girls Academy in Indiana and was named team captain her senior year. 
"Our team did well, considering we were in high school where there's not much competition," says Castaneda. 
The Belles' varsity fencing team was the primary reason that Cas­taneda decided to apply to Saint Mary's, although she also chose the college because of its small enroll­ment. 
"I like the atmosphere here," ex­plains the economics/Spanish double major. "Ifyou need help, you can get it. We get a lot more atten· tion here than at a big high school. I was used to that and I wanted to con­tinue it." 
Castaneda joined the SMC fencing team her freshman year and has been competing since then. As team captain she has had a big influence on the other team members. 
"I most appreciate Mary Ann's en­couragement and her leadership," says sophomore Mary Jean Sully. "She gets the spirit of the team going." 
Castaneda has done very well in spots, as she went 4-0 against Case Western Reserve on Feb. 16 and had a record of 14-2 when the team traveled to Boston and Philadelphia earlier in the season. 
"My record for the eastern trip was good," she comments. "I was very happy with my fencing at that time. As the season has progressed, I've been caught up in everything. I'm coming along. but with school work and all, I've been under a lot of pressure." 
Castaneda hopes to attend the Na­tional Intercollegiate Women's Fen­cing Association (NAIA) Tournament later this season. 
"We went last year, and the coaches will decide if we go this year, depending on how we do at the Great Lakes Competition," she remarks. 
Whether or not Cao;taneda fences after college is still to be decided. She states, "Maybe yes. Maybe no. We'll see." 
Ca.,taneda plans to return to Cali­fornia and work in the international department ofa bank. 
"Fencing's not too popular in Cali­fornia," she says. "Coach Weeks and I have searched for clubs there, but so far we haven't found any." 
Castaneda is pleased with the fen­cing program at Saint Mary's. "The team itself is great and Saint Mary's supports us," she comments. She would like to see the program expand, however. 
"Next year there will be a lot of senior team members, so we need new students to put in a semester of novice and to fence well enough to move to varsity," she says. "All it takes is attendance, skill, attitude and respect." 
Coach DeCicco believes Cas­taneda has had· a good influence on the SMC fencing program and the. team itself. 
"If not for Mary Ann, the success we've had at Saint Mary's for the fen­cing program and especially for the support of the team would not be what it is," he says. 
"We need people for publicity and to get students to join the team. She more than anyone else has been and is responsible for that." 
ByANDREA LAFREl'I"IERE 
Sports Writer 

Six years of experience has put senior Mary Ann Castaneda at the top of the Saint Mary's fencing team. 
Castaneda is currently the team captain for the Belles and holds a season record of 38-18. According to Coach Mike Weeks, "Mary Ann's a good fencer. She's a very hard worker and a real plus for the team." 
"Mary Ann is not only the team captain but also the team leader and has been from the day she set foot on 
Cochiolo 
continuedfrom page 12 
pleted Natatorium at the ACC. 

"This has been a good year of swimming for me," she said. I have definitely improved over my perfor­mance last year. I'll probably lift weights or get into aerobics in the off-season, and hopefully be even stronger next season." 
Cochiolo and her teammates look forward to improving on last year's sixth place finish at the Midwest In­vitational. The Irish will be compet­ing against eleven other teams, most of which ate from Illinois, Missouri, and Michigan. Count on Venette Cochiolo to be among the top finis­hers. 
St. John's meets Hoyas 
AMociated Press 

NEW YORK -In reality, tonight's game between St. John's and Geor­getown is little more than a prelude to bigger things. Yet it is being treated here as the biggest thing to hit New York since that big ape climbed that big building. 
The game will decide little. Oh, the top of the The Associated Press poll could be altered. The seedings in the Big East Conference tourna­ment could be affected, too, and per­haps the national championship tournament as well. 
But this is actually only the second half of the teams' home-and­home schedule. Barring an upset, they will be playingeach other again in a couple of weeks in the Big East championship game. And they have their sights set on the Final Four in Lexington, Ky., where they could meet yet again, converging in the na­tional tournament's climax from dif­ferent regions. 
Nevertheless, St. John's is No. 1, Georgetown is No. 2 and they are playing a game in the media capital of the world. And that alone is enough to stir the interest of even the casual fan. 
The 19,500 seats in Madison Square Garden, still the mecca for college basketball, have been sold out since December. No wonder that, depending on the rumor ofthe moment, the top ticket, S 12. 50, is going for anywhere from S300 to 
ssoo. 

The game is considered to be the Garden's biggest since Willis Reed limped out of the locker room on May 8, 1970, and electrified his teammates and the crowd with bas­lcets on his first two (and only) shots to spark the New York Knicks to a 113-99 victory over Wilt Chamber­lain and the Los Angeles Lakers for the National Basketball Association championship. 
Adding to the drama of Wednes­day night's get-together is the prospect of another showdown be­tween two of college basketball's premierplayers -chris Mullin, the 6­foot-6 guard for the Redmen, and 7­foot center Patrick Ewing of the Hoyas. 
BISHOP WILLIAM McMANUS 
OF 
FORTWAYNE-SOUTHBEND 
SPEAKS ON 
'THE AMERICAN ECONOMY 
AND THE BISHOPS' LEITER' 
TONIGHT HOWARD HALL 7:00P.M. ALL INVITED 
Women's Box Score 
Notre Dame 64 Loyola 63 

Loyola (63) M FG-A FT-A R F p Notre Dame (64) 
M FG-A FT-A R F p· Dougherty 10 1-1 0-0 0 0 2 Mimnaugh 40 5-11 1-2 0 3 11 Basford 4 0-0 0-0 1 1 . 0 Leyden 36 3-11 2-2 3 2 8 Ebben 32 6-10 2-2 2 1 14 Meyers 29 2-8 0-0 4 3 4 Kaiser 6 1-2 0-0 1 1 2 Huszti 32 7-11 1-3 4 2 15 McNerney 22 5-12 0-0 5 2 10
Keys 38 7-15 0-2 6 2 14 
Both am 38 9-14 6-8 12 4 24 Busiel 32 5-9 1-1 5 4 11 Brommeland 10 0-0 0-0 0 2 0 Zalig 9 2-4 0-0 0 4 Gavin 200 29-66 5-8 21 17 63
36 3-5 0-2 5 0 6 Schueth FG Pet -.439. FT Pet -.625. Team
26 1-5 0-0 8 3 2 200 28-52 8-14 35 14 64 rebounds-3. Turnovers-11. Assists-23 
FG Pet. -.538. FT Pet -.571. Team (Mimnaugh 12). Technicals-none. rebounds-3. Turnovers-21. Assists-20 Halftime-Notre Dame 36. Loyola 29. (Gavin 9). Technicals-none. 
Officials -Kevm Joyce, Joe Bentz (both North Star Conference). A-187. 
Portland loses Dupree to serious knee injury 
Associated Press 

PORTLAND, Ore. Marcus Dupree, the S6 million Portland Breakers' running back whose United States Football League career has stumbled from one injury to an­other, will be out for the rest of the season because of a damaged left knee. 
Dupree underwent arthroscopic surgery yesterday at Providence Medical Center for ligament damage. Although the surgery was successful, the knee won't heal in time to let Dupree back on the field this year, Breakers spokesman John Brunelle said. 
The Breakers intend to replace their superstar with Buford Jordan, who ran for 1,276 yards on 214 carries last year as a rookie. 
"We'll plug him right in," Brunelle said. "There aren't many teams that can lose their big gun and replace him with another big gun. We're for­tunate that we kept both of these guys coming into this season." 
Coach Dick Coury said Dupree, a former University ofOklahoma stan­dout and one of the highest-paid players in the USFL, had been "really coming along" after having no hamstring problems for two weeks. 
"Mainly, we feel bad for Marcus as an individual," Coury said in a state­ment. "It's extremely damaging to lose a superstar running back like Marcus, and we can just wish him a full recovery and hope that he'll be back with us next year." 
The 20-year-old Dupree, who left school early in his sophomore season, was carried from the field Sunday at Sun Devil Stadium on a stretcherwith just over two minutes to play · in the Breakers' season opener against Arizona. 
Dupree, in the second year of a five-year, S6 million contract, missed most of last season with hamstring problems. He also missed most of this year's training camp with more hamstring injuries. 

D 
ytana far Sprinr:~ Break 
YOU DRIVE (TO THE PARTY) WE DRIVE (THE PARTY STARTS HERE) 
94-5 per room $ 184-5 per room$ 104 · 4 per room 194-4 per room 


Si~n-ups and infarmatianal m•etin~ --TDMDRRDW 
Thursday. 7pm. LaFartune Little Theatre -ar­stap by the Seniar Class Dffic:e. 
1.5 LaFartune. M-F. &-!lpm 


Wednesday, February 27, 1985 -page 11 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
a to 







I DON'r BELieVC 
fT... A 90P~TH~ G'E"AVERJ 
Bl<KlfllCounty Berke Breathed lheFarSide Gary Larson 



Y65 ..1HIS tH15TY< OPUS 
vOOVE OCff?f? 
IS MISTER THIS 15 7H€ 
I(}(JR C!?U'I T 
f. OPI/S. 'V15A. ~PIT 

WHO C./MIT !3Y 
IS IT 7 # 15, 72'-. 3?
OffiCE. 
\ r 
r 

Campus 
•12 
· 1 p.m. -Lecture, "Faith, Family and the Ameri­can Constitution," Lewis Lehrman, Chairman, Citizens for America, Law School Student Lounge. 

•2:30 
· 5 p.m.-Income TaxAssistance Program, CSC Coffeehouse. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "The Gibbs Paradox and Nonuniform Convergence," Prof. Mi­chael Redhead, University of London, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
.m. -Lecture, "The Catalytic Consequences ofChanging Functional Amino Acids in an Enzyme: What Can We Learn?" Prof. Jeremy Knowlens, 


.. 
Room 123 Nieuwland. 
•5 
· 7 p.m. -Senior Fonnal Registration, LaFortune and LeMans, S56. 

•6:
1 5 p.m. -Circle K Meeting, Center for Social Concerns. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Toastmasters Meeting, Room 223 Hayes Healy. 

•7 
p.m.-Wednesday Film Series, "Strike," ETS Theatre, CCE. 

•7p.m.-Meeting, 
Women's International League for Peace and Freedom ND/SMC, Coffeehouse, 


esc. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m. & 12 a.m. -Film, "The Natural," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 

•
7 p.m. -Lecture, "The American Economy & the Bishop's Letter," Bishop William McManus, Howard Hall Chapel, Sponsored by Howard Hall, Free. 

•
7 p.m. -Meeting, Rally Against Starvation, ISO Lounge, LaFortune. 

•8
p.m. -Lecture, Rev. George W. Hunt, S.J., Editor ofAmerica, andJohn Irving, Author of"The World According to Garp," Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Sophomore Literary Festival . 

•9 
·9:30p.m.-TalkShow, "Campus Perspectives," Guest: Aline Gioffre, Director of the Millions Against MS Drive, WVFI-Radio 64 AM. 

•11 
p.m. -Mass a: ReOecdon, "What Has Lent Meant to You?" Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Lyons Chapel, Sponsored by Lyons & Morrissey Liturgy Commissions. 


49 Coward's 56 Cat cries spirit 57 Trade
The Daily Crossword 
51 Firearm 58 Rabbit 53 Saddle part 59 Leaf-stem ACROSS 37 Segal's story 68 Talon 13 WWil town 54 Town near angle 39 Take-out order 69 Skins 21 Gussie of Salerno 61 Tidy words 70 Diminutive tennis 55 Forearm bones 62 Immense 1 Squabble 40 Radioactive ending5 Profusion 
gas 71 Sibilate 
25 Imitate

9 Mapvolume 41 Bauxite e.g. 
27 Medicinal

14 -colada DOWN Tuesday's Solution 
plant

15 Hobgoblin 42 Marshy place 
28 Actor Greene

16 Resided 43 Muslim title 
30 Amphibian

1 Boxes
17 Came to rest 44 Horne of song 
31 Make eyes at 

2 Certain TV
45 Mineral 

show
deposits

18 Hindu 
3 Aromatic herb
46 Uris' cry

philosophy 32 Refusals
4 Spud
48 Exile isle

19 Bribable 33 Graceful horse
5 "Casino-" 20 "-Baby" (Fleming)(Levin) 50 Heidelberg Mr. 34 Vishnu 22 Musical piece 52 Chautauqua incarnation for short 57 Actor Dick 6-Sikorsky 35 Redact 60 Ellison's man 7 Wild party 
36 Roberts' 63 Grows 8 Bedevil 
passage64 Accomplishment
23 Solid alcohol 
24 Bridge seat 26 Actual 9 Counsel 38 Calf meat 29 Metalious' 65 "-Nanette" 10 Heller's catch 42 Kills place 66 Come up 11 Fast period 44 Seagod 
© 1985 Tribune Media Semces, Inc. 
2127/85

33 Bout site 67 Quirt 12 Winglike 47 Camera parts All Rights Reserved 


Tonight and tomorrow night 
THENATVRAL 
1 
' 

7:00, 9:30, 12:00 $1.50 
Engineering Auditorium 
--------~-------------~------------------~ 

Wednesday, February 27, 1985 -page 12
S~orts 

Tho: Obotrvo:r/Pbil Do:o:to:r 
Trena Keys played a key role in last night's 64-63 straight North Star Conference game. For more on victory over the Ramblers of Loyola of Chicago. last night's contest, seeMikeSullivan'sstorybelow. Keys scored 14 points as the Irish won their eighth 
Irish keep first place in conference with close victory over rival Loyola 
By MIKE SULLIVAN big steal to seal the Notre Dame vic­ham scoring inside and Lynn Ebben Sports Editor tory. and Teena Keys scoring outside, Gavin's steal with less than a min­Notre Dame led by as much as eight 
CHICAGO -The Notre Dame wo­ute remaining in the game killed a in the half. men's basketball team took another Loyola rally that had seen the The Ramblers, who had been big step toward the North Star Con­Ramblers turn a seven-point blown out in the second half in last ference title last night by defeating halftime deficit into a five-point lead Wednesday's 84-59 loss at Notre defending conference champion with 5:22 left. The point guard's two Dame, emerged from the locker­
\ 
Loyola, 64-63, at Alumni Gym. driving jumpers had given the Irish a room very strong. Led by forward
\ 
\ 63-61 lead and her steal and a foul Jackie Huszti, who scored 13 of her \ I The Irish were able to hand the shot by Botham that ensued team-high 1 5 points after intermis­~ Lady Ramblers only their second clinched for Notre Dame its ninth sion, Loyola gradually chipped away . \ I home loss in two years (against 26 North Star win against one loss . at the Irish lead, finally going ahead, 
wins) and stay a game ahead of 53-52, when Sue Busiel made a Dayton in the NSC race largely Coach Mary DiStanislao's squad three-point play with 9:24 to play. through the contributions of two once again relied on its strong inside freshmen, Sandy Botham and Mary game to control the tempo of the The Rambler lead reached 59-54 Gavin. Botham scored 24 points and game. The Irish outrebounded their before Notre Dame bounced back. pulled down 12 rebounds, while hosts by 16 in the first half, 25-9, as Ebben scored four points and Bot­Gavin scored two important baskets they built up a fairly comfortable ham one before Gavin put the Irish late in the game and came up with a lead despite 11 turnovers. With Bot-ahead for good with her two baskets. 

Team goes to Midwest Invitational 
Cochiolo leads Irish swimmers 
By DAVE Wll.SON in Walsh Hall for the past three give me a very busy schedule, but Sports Writer years. A swimmer since she was I've learned to adjust. The swimmers eight years old, the attractive 5-9 have given me a good group of 
Due in part to its recent victory in brunette discovered Notre Dame on friends, and we get together for the North Star Conference cham­a trip to Wisconsin, where she com­more than just swim practice." pionships, the Irish women's swim­peted on a national level in A.A.U. Head Coach Dennis Stark speaks ming team will send fifteen of its swimming. At the time, she was highly ofCochiolo, who captains the most talented athletes to the Univer­ranked twenty-second in the nation Irish along with seniorJoanne Pearl. 
sity of Illinois at Chicago today, to for her age catagory ( 1 5-18) in the "Venette is a very enthusiastic 
compete in the powerful Midwest 200-yard breaststroke. swimmer and team member," he Invitational. Venette Cochiolo, a 
says. "As a junior, she has demon­junior and co-captain of the squad, strated a mature sense ofleadership will play an important role in the among her peers. team's performance. "We'll probably enter her in two 
_"All of us are really psyched for individual medleys, two relay med­this one," says Cochiolo. "The con­leys and two breaststroke events," ference championship meant a lot, he says. "Last year we entered her in 
but the competition this weekend the same events, and she managed will be much more intense." four top-ten finishes. Her perfor­The North Star Conference, as mance will be instrumental to our 
Cochiolo explains, has only been in team's capabilities." 
existence for two years, and the Irish "Coach Stark has been a support 
have captured the championship to all of us," says Cochiolo. "He is a 
both years. The North Star was kind of mentor for the team. He is 
created by Notre Dame Athletic more than just a swim coach, be­
l 
Director Gene Corrigan to provide a cause he also shows concern for the conference for the new team. other aspects of our lives, like "Women's swimming was new to classes and family." varsity sports when I was a fresh­Venette Cochiolo Beyond her career at Notre Dame, man," continues Cochiolo. "I didn't Cochiolo is considering graduate "Coach Stark really encouraged
come to Notre Dame looking for an school in psychology. She wishes to 1 { ( .... intense, pressure-packed swimming me to consider Notre Dame when I be a counselor for marital and family ) l program. We enjoy the sport, and made that visit," she commented. "I problems. As for swimming, she is we enjoy each other's friendship. It was thinking about Yale or one of eager to return to the team next 
makes the time I put into my swim­the University of California schools 
year, when they will move from the ming very worthwhile." before I came to South Bend. 
Rockne Pool to the newly com-Cochiolo is a pre-med major from "I'm happy with my choice," she Santa Maria, California, and has lived continues. "Classes and swimming see COCHIOLO, page 10 

Are games really games anymore? 
Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 


Hello again everybody! 
Somehow during the weekend, the state ofIndiana seemed to lose its perspective on sports. The basketball"game", the hockey "game", and some similar events were no longer games. They didn't even qualify as sports. In fact, the only category some ofthese events were suited for was organized mayhem. Despite that fact, let's try to look at these situations in a civilized way. 
The trouble started in Bloomington, at that bastion ofhigher edu­cation known as Indiana University. The school's most reknowned personality, a Mr. Robert Knight, was trying to perform one of his celebrated clinics in the game of basketball in his classroom at As­sembly Hall. Unfortunately, some people in striped clothing were interfering with the execution of this clinic by penalizing some of Knight's star pupils. 
As any educator would do when his class is disrupted, Knight became incensed and scolded the perpetrators of this injustice. Then, as the class was beginning to resume, Mr. Knight hurled a chair across his classroom. Exactly what value of higher education Mr. Knight was trying to get across to his pupils in this lesson in the art of furniture tossing is unclear, but it certainly is not something one should accept at any institution oflearning. 
For instance, ifone ofMr. Knight's esteemed colleagues, say a Mr. Richard Phelps, were to throw a chair across his classroom, how long do you think he would remain at Notre Dame? Probably as long as it would take Gene Corrigan to get from hisseat at courtside to the Notre Dame bench. 
This is not to say Notre Dame is innocent. It seems Mr. Knight's action spawned a wave ofviolence at other "games" across the state, as evidenced by the occurences at Saturday evening's Notre Dame hockey contest. A splendid game between the Irish and Michigan­Dearborn had entered the third period, and the fans were thrilling to some marvelous goaltending and fine skating. That is until the 12:24 mark ofthat third stanza. 
At this point, a Mr. David Kromm ofMichigan-Dearborn was found guilty ofholding -an offense punishable by two minutes of solitary confinement in the penalty box. By the time justice had been delivered to Mr. Kromm though, several other offenses had taken place, which if committed outside a hockey rink would be punishable by five to ten years at the state penitentiary. 
Nine people were asked to leave the "game", thank.~ to various 
forms of fighting (assault and battery), swinging at the head with a 
stick (assault with a deadly weapon), and "molesting an official" (a 
penalty whose social implications we will not discuss here). It ap­
peared as though the players had tired of hockey and wished to try 
their hand at guerilla warfare. 
Admittedly, hockey and basketball are physical "games" where 
frequent contact -often ofan illegal kind -can incite its participants 
to acts of violence. However, this reign of terror even reached the 
civilized "game" of tennis, with the ACC (Attack and Cripple Cen­
ter) once again serving as the scene of the crime. 
Following a well-played match between a Mr. Mike Gibbons of 
Notre Dame and a Mr. Rudy Foo ofIowa -a match won by Mr. Gib­
bons -the loser was obviously distraught. As many upset people do, 
Mr. Foo expressed his frustration. He did so, however, by slinging his 
racket across the arena in the general direction of a canvas. Obvi­
ously, Mr. Foo has not yet learned any lessons ofself-control at Iowa. 
In the words ofMr. T, "I pity the Foo." 
Now there are probably many of you reading about these events 
and saying, "Big deal. That's part of the game." Not really. You see, if 
it's still a "game", you assume people are particpatingfor pleasure. It 
seems quite obvious that Mr. Knight, Mr. Kromm, and Mr. Foo were 
not really enjoying themselves. Unfortunately, their unhappiness 
disrupted the "game" to the point of almost overshadowing the 
event. 

People saying "that's part of the game" seem to condone what 
happened, since it occured within the confines ofa sporting event. 
After all, if somebody threw a chair, a stick, or a racket in a normal 
social situation, we would be questioning their mental stability. In­
stead, the fans at both the basketball and hockey games went wild 
with jubilation. 
It makes you wonder ifwe have taken the "game" too seriously. It 
makes you wonder whether sports is just a "game" anymore at all. 
Pickofthe Week ... Fortunately, there are sportingevents where 
"games" are still fun. The Irish women's basketball team is having a 
lot of fun against North Star Conference opponents lately, and the 
opportunity for another evening ofhappiness presents itself tomor· 
row night when Butler comes to the ACC for a 7:00 tip-off. 
Fans can take part in the fun, too. A crowd of 1,143 delighted to a 
free Big Gulp at their local 7-1 1 thanks to an 11-point Irish win last 
Sunday. If the Irish lead by seven or eleven at the half or at the final 
buzzer Thursday night, the Big Gulps will flow again. Can lightning 
strike twice? Will the Irish get another win, and will the fans once 
again witness a "Big Gulp moment"? You won't know unless you go 
Thursday night. 

