
-~ --­
Tina and Glen -page 7 

VOLXX,N0.6 tht· intkpcndcnt -.wdcnt Ill'\\ -.paper '>l'f\ ing 11111n dame ;md -.ami mar~·, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, I985 
• ~ Spring Student Senate 

~-~·~I budget vote overruled ==" by activities director 
By MARK PANKOWSKI "If the budget wasn't allocated CopyEdttor and sealed, which It wasn't, then the student body would have returned 
At least one Student Senator is and there would not have been all outraged by the decision ofDirector these activities which are now going of Student Activities Joni Neal to on." overrule the Student Senate's vote to Abood also cited the constitu­approve a two-thirds, one-third al­tion's provisiongiving the senate the location ofstudent activities fees. power to determine the fiscal 
policies of student government andIn its final meeting of the spring said this year's senate had never ap­semester, the senate had voted to all­proved of the fiscal policies. 
ocate two-thirds of the student ac­tivity fee budget then, and to hold He said former Director of Stu­the other one-third until it could be dent Activities Jim McDowell two reviewed in the fall when they had years ago had "fabricated his ownset more time. offiscal policies" and Neal again had 
A reportedly unsolicited attempt to save the Uni· 
Neal's decision last spring, decided "to hand down the same set
r'f!rsity appro:r:imately half a million dollars was 
however, nullified that vote and the ofrules."
undertaken on the Stepan Mall by some North 
entire budget was approved without According to Neal, she had
Qruul students sometime Thursday night. The im· 
the senate's consent. worked with the 1983-84 Student Body President Brian Callaghan and
Student Senator Chris Abood, Vice President Peggy Prevoznick,citing provisions in the Student
East L.A. residents assist police 
who she said, were instrumental inGovernment Constitution giving the formulating the fiscal policy. Neal senate the power to allocate student added she was "almost positive" thatfunds, accused Neal last week of the senate had approved it that year.
in capture of alleged Night Stalker 
taking away that power, thereby contradicting the constitution and Records show that the 1983-84Police launched an air and ground chasing him," Hernandez said of appearing to invalidate it. senate did abide by the fiscal policy, 
search as calls continued, saying the Manuel De La Torre, 35. "He hit him Neal, who made the decision after although they are unclear whetherl.OS ANGELES -Richard Ramirez, man was seen crossing the city line in the head three times." 
Vice President ofStudent Affairs Fat­the senate had approved it.
As Ramirez tried to flee, neighbors
a suspect in I 6 slayings throughout into unincorporated county ter­her David Tyson gave his approval, Although the fiscal policy wasSouthern California, was arrested ritory, where he finally was arrested. emerged from their homes and said she acted because "the Senate never approved by this year's senate, Saturday after he was chased and "It seemed like alert citizens were joined in the fight, police said. 
had not finished its job. They had to said Student Body President Bill
beaten by a group of residents in reporting the suspect every step of Ramirez had had problems with have a budget." Healy, "that argument Is Invalid be­
drugs since his childhood in El Paso,
East Los Angeles when he allegedly the way," said Booth. 
She mentioned two reasons why cause, by precedent, last year'sAt one point Ramirez ran through Texas, suffered epilepsy and waspunl·hed a woman and tried to steal 
the two-thirds, one-third split was senate came into power and
backyards, where at least one man working as a street sweeper for thea car. 
unacceptable. followed that fiscal policy." 
city of Los Angeles, relatives told
lbe capture ended an hour-long struck him with some barbecue "First, the University has a vestednewspapers.

chase that began when shoppers at a utensils, Booth said. The controversy surrounding the
interest in that money. No one has a 
Ramirez, 25, was being held wit­

liquor store reported that Ramirez Ramirez ended up in an East Los fiscal policy stems from Its stipula­
choice of paying the mandatory
hout bail Sunday after being booked

picked up a newspaper,looked at his Angeles neighborhood, where heal· tions providing for two committees,
(student activities )fee," she said. "It
for investigation of one unspecified

photograph on the cover, and fled, legedly tried to steal a car, but "one that allocates 80 percent of the
is run through the University ac­

count of murder and for attempted counts and the University really
said Los Angeles Police Commander crashed it into a house while trying budget, the other 20 percent. 
William Booth. to back it out of a driveway, said auto theft and assault. He was not-to does have the last say from an ad­Classes, which Abood said are be­
be: arraigned until Tuesday. 
Police identified and released a Booth. 

He crossed the street and pulled Sheriff's deputies took Ramirez for ministration point of view on how coming more important to students'photograph of Ramirez on Friday those funds are spent." social life, fall under the 20-percentnight. They identified him as the Angie De La Torre, 29, from her car questioning to the Hollenbeck Sta­committee.
tion, where a surgingcrowdofabout "The other reason is because
prime suspect in the Night Stalker in front of her home and tried to (clubs and organizations) can't run Because classes do come underseries of 16 slayings and at least 21 grab her keys, witnesses said. 500 jeering " people gathered outside, shouting "Kill him! kill on a partial budget. Groups can't .the 20-percent committee. theyas..~aults that has terrorized Califor­"He hit her in the stomach. She wait until the fall because they have 1must share 20 percent of the ap­

nia since Feb. 8. The·victims were fought back," said the woman's brot· him!" her, Juan Hernandez, 17. "She About 50 officers formed a human to have the summer to plan," she proximate S2';Q,OOO budget with
shot, bludgeoned, stabbed or had several clubs and organizations.

chain to protect the handcuffed said.
their throats slashed by an assailant recognized him right away. She who sneaked into darkened homes screamed, 'It's the killer, the killer!"' Ramirez as he walked from the sta­Father David Tyson agreed. Said "My brother-in-law took a metal tion to an unmarked police car for Tyson, "The senate did not do what
through unlocked doors or win· see SENATE, page 4 
dows. stick from the gate and started transfer to the main county jail. they were supposed to do. 
The Obocrver/Paul Citarelli 
promptu sculptural statement was apparently a response to the planned memorial fountain and was removed by late Friday morning. 


Donations set record 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
CopyEdttor 
ANotre Dame field hockey player is recovering from a minor gun-shot wound to her leg, sustained during a Thursday afternoon practice at Car­tier field. 
Christina Weinmann, a senior co­captain on the team, was taken to Saint Joseph's Medical Center after being wounded by a small-caliber bullet four inches above her ankle while warming-up before practice. 
Notre Dame Security, which is in­vestigating the incident, would not comment yesterday on whether a suspect had been apprehended. 
Weinmann, who returned to her dorm Friday morning, said she was "facing the Golden Dome on the north(west) side" of the field when she was hit. The trajectory of the bullet, she said, indicated it wasfired from a patch ofwoods at the comer of.Eddy and Edison streets. 
She said the nine-millimeter bul­let, which was fired from a .22 or a .38, was on the way down when it struck her. 
"Personally, I don't think anyone was trying to shoot me," she said. "I think it was a stray bullet." 
Dr. Willard Yergler, director of sports medicine at Notre Dame, per­formed the half-hour surgery on Weinmann's leg. 
"The bullet didn't have any power and didn't do any serious damage," he said. "It didn't strike the bone, but just hit soft tissue." 
Weinmann's description was slightly more graphic. 
"It was really gross. I didn't want to look at it, but I did and there was a big hole In my leg," she said. "(The bullet) entered the left side of my leg and was pertruding through the right side." 
"You could see the bullet. It just missed going all the way through," she added. 
Yergler said Weinmann should recover in approximately 1 0 days to two weeks, and said there should be no complications. 
The incident: Weinmann said, oc­curred at approximately 3:55p.m. "I bent down to stretch and I heard a loud whipping sound," she 
see WEINMANN, page 4 
By GERRY GOLDNER 
StaffReporter 
Notre Dame received a record breaking gift Income of $33.8 million in the fiscal year 1985 ac­ccordlng to William Sexton, vice president for University rela­tions. 
The total of $33.8 million represents an increase of 40 per­cent over fiscal year 1984 and an increase of S2.3 million over the previous University record of S3I.5 million in fiscal year 1981. 
According to Director of Development, Joseph Sandman, the University also received record breaking gift totals in the area.~ of corporate giving ( S9.7 million) and parental giving ( S7.5 million ). The percentage donated by alumni was also up 48 

Student receives gun-shot wound at afternoon field hockey practice 
percent. 
"The main reason for the in­crease is that the Notre Dame alumni, parents, and friends en­dorse the Notre Dame mission. Notre Dame is unique nationally in that it maintains both a strong graduate and a strong under­graduate program while also keeping a Catholic character," said Sandman. 
Atalented development staff is another reason for the increase in the gift income. This develop­ment staff has used several new fund-raisers,including the newly­created Sorin Society as well as an annual phone-a-thon. _ 
According to Sandman, most of the money Is being apportioned for buildings, scholarships, research, and the Notre Dame libraries. 

r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
' 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
The Observer 

In Brief 

Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC detachment has a new commander, Colonel David Woods, who will also serve as professor and chairman of the Department of Aerospace Studies. Woods, a 25-year Air Force veteran, was previously stationed at Minot Air Force Base in North Dakota. Also joining the Air Force ROTC faculty are Major Bruce Nawolj and Captain Samuel Gaglio as assistant professors. -The Observer 
SisterJohn MiriamJones, assistant provost at Notre Dame, has been appointed Coordinator of Disabled Students by Provost Timothy O'Meara. In addition to her responsibilities in the provost's office, jones also will serve as the University's primary consultant and contact for disabled students' academic needs. Al­though some matters concerning building access and housing ar­rangements will continue to be handled through the Office of Student Affairs, jones will be responsible for working with the various on-campus offices such as admissions, "financial aid and the academic departments. Her duties will also include assisting faculty members with special needs of the disabled in the classroom. -The Observer 
One of only 52 cadets in the country selected, Army ROTC Cadet Neil Keohane attended fiight training orientation program in Fort Rucker, AI. this summer. Cadet Keohane served as the company commander during the four week course. · The Obser­
ver 

The Rev. Jesse Jackson spoke at the Rev. Jerry Falwell's Lynchburg, Va. church yesterday, and said the two shared some ideas on how to end apartheid in South Africa. jackson, speak­ing at Thomas Road Baptist Church, said the situation in South Africa, where the white minority deprives the black majority of political power, presents a moral issue best addressed by the Golden Rule. Jackson, a civil rights leader, said he and Falwell, the founder of Moral Majority, "have shared various pointe ofview on how to end apartheid." Falwell, who did not attend the breakfast, said he thought it was only fair to letJackson speak at Thomas Road Baptist Church. "1 told jesse that it would probably be better not to have a debate forum, but to say anything he wished," Falwell said. "Talking with Jerry was a chance to share with him face to face how hurt people were, how as Christians we ought to find alternatives to apartheid or communism, the issues to end apartheid and fight for democracy," he said. -AP 
Of Interest 

Seniors maypickup their Sept. events calendar and class newsletters at the OBUD information desk in the LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 

Weather 

Definitely not a Coppertone day. Mostly cloudy with a 30 percent chance of showers today and a high of80. Tonight, partly cloudy and a 20 percent chance of showers. Low in the middle to upper 60s. Partly sunny, very warm and humid with a 30 percent chance of afternoon thundershowers tomorrow. High in the middle 80s. ·AP 


The OhserYer-' 
1be Obeervrr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. 1be Obaervu 15 published by the studentsof the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per~­mester) by wrlllfllllbe Obeervrr, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
1'he OIJ8enoer Is a member of Tbc ~ Praa. AU reproduction rights are re~rved. 

Design Editor ............................. Paul Bruce Design Asslstant.......... Jane Ann Rledford LayoutStaff............................... Miriam Hill Typesetters ........................ Mark B. Johnson Becky Gunderman Bill Highducheck News Edltor............................... John Heasly CopyEdltor................................. John Hines Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf VIewpoint Copy Editor ......John Menncll VIewpoint Layout............... Priscilla Karle Featurr!S Copy Editor.............. Mary Healy Featurr!S Layout...................EUyn Mastako ND Day Editor........................Aimee Storin SMC Day Editor....................Priscilla Karle AdDesign .................... Catherine Ramsden Sara Wolohan Pbotograpber........................ Paul CiJ&rdll Typist .............................. Jodi Shellenbarger 
Monday, September 2, 1985 -page 2 


Students of the 80s avoid confrontation of the 60s 
_ 

The not-quite-stiff body of a college student lies face down on the pavement. Another student crumples over him, the agony and disbelief on her face summarizing the incident known simply as "Kent State." This scene, a nationally famous photograph, captured on a square of film nearly a decade ofsocial upheaval and disgust with the war in Vietnam. It won a Pulitzer Prize. 
Last spring, fifteen years after the National Guard opened fire on a group of protesting students, more than 30 universities were the sites of student demonstrations. Some social historians have compared the new activism to that of the '60s and '70s. This time around, subjects in focus are broader than the Vietnam War. Among issues to which students are publicizing oppOsition is apartheid in South Africa. 
At last April's meeting ofthe Student Affairs Commit· tee ofthe Notre Dame Board ofTrustees, a small band of student representatives demonstrated their concern over University investments. 
There were no Pulitzer Prize opportunities at this demonstration. In atten­dance were 11 students re­questing a meeting with the University's Investment Committee. john Dettling, chairman of the student government committee for responsible business practices, presented the ap­peal, "It's not that we're suspicious, we're just in­terested." 

"There has been both dis­ruption and discussion on other campuses over this issue, but at Notre Dame there has only been discus­sion," Dettling said. He em­phasized the committee's strategy, "We've been careful not to make the mistake ofbeing antagonistic and confrontational." 
Veterans of the 1960s demonstrations might be surprised by the temperance of the students' concern with the University's dealings in South Africa, but it was fairly representative of this decade's college protests. Few such demonstrations have been violent. Many have been planned with cooperation from campus aut­horities. At Kent State, the university funded the demonstration that marked the killing offour students. 
In protest of the University ofMassachusetts' alleged violation of its policy of South African disinvestment, approximately 300 students camped out in administra­tion offices for three nights early last April. Chancellor Joseph Duffy brought hamburgers and french fries for the students when he met with them. 
The recent college protests may be less dramatic than those of the '60s; however, the participating stu­dents are demonstrating social responsibility. "I think 

Sarah Hamilton 
.Editor-in-Chief 

students are less into theatrics than they were in the '60s," said Alicia Svigala, 22, an activist at Brown. "There are mainstream-looking students participating here. They've done serious research into these problems and are involved in a lot ofplanning for these activities." 
"Violence versus nonviolence is almost an abstrac­tion. This is more along the lines of civil disobedience, giving the system a chance," said Sandor Katz, 22, anot­her Brown student. 
There may be fewer photo opportunities with the new activism, but the stu­dents are achieving results. Yale University, for one, agreed after a student protest, to stop investments in three companies with dealings in South A1Hca. Likewise, governing boards of Northwestern University and the University oflllinois have agreed to study proposals ofdisinvestment. 
After the hamburger and french fry session, the Uni­versity of Massachusetts consented to create a com­mission consisting of stu· dents, faculty and administration to study its disinvestment policy. At Notre Dame, three students 
serve together with trustees, faculty members and ad­ministrators on the Trustees Ad Hoc Committee on South African Investments. Last week the committee met to review the University's policy and prepare proposals for the Board ofTrustees' meeting in Novem­ber. 
No Pulitzer-winning photo may be shot at a campus demonstration this year. Rather than trying to fight the system through fires and violent protests, students of the '80s are attempting to change it, often elbow-to­elbow around a university conference table with ad­ministrators. It seems to be working. If so, maybe a Pulitzer will go to a frame of a racially integrated South Africa. 

Tbe Observer LaFortune office accepts ciRSSified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:JO p.m., Monday through Friday. Thr Saint Mary's olllicr In rhr Rrgina Hall basrrnent is OIKn from noon to 3 p.m•. Monday through Friday. The deadline for nexr day &ervice is 3 p.m. 
IIIN;;:,_;;;;.;.~••;••;Hiiooiiu;:,;:,_;;;,;;,";;";;,;;,_=:;,;,,_;H~o=nmrm;i;~~..;,..~H~II~I~II;,II;..; .. ~,;,.. ; .. ; ..;,_;._;._~-~,;_,;J 
OPENAUDITIONS 
ND-SMC Production ojNoel Coward's 
HAYFEVER 
Monday, Sept.2 at The Little -SMC Tuesday, Sept. 3 at Memorial Library-ND Come Prepared With A Non-Memorized Scene From Hay Fever 
Scripts Available In Dept. Office ofSMC 110Moreau 
For F•rlller Jrifon~~flllon Call 284-4640 284-464, 
llHIIII-HIIIItHIIHIII-IItiiiiHIIII-IIHIIH___IIIIIIHIItlllllltiiHIIIIIII 

•
•
•


•
•
• 

PRE-SCH~O~
•

• 
eParent/Child efrl ergarten

• 
eToddler eExtended Day 


•

• ePre-Primary Kindergarten
•

• 15767 Day Rd., Mishawaka 
• 
•
• 

ELEMENTARY •
•
Grades 
• 

First through Sixth : 624 N. Notre Dame Ave. • 
• 256-5313 :
•

• Tlae only accredited Montessori School in Indiana :
:.............................................. 

New Sai~t Mary's faculty and staff added for fall semester 
The Observer 
Inmates set fire in Eire 
AsAociatcd Press 
CORK. Ireland About 70 inmates, some wielding pickaxes and pitchforks, seized control of the Spike Island prison compound off the Irish coast yesterday and set it afire, leaving three-fourths of the prison a smoldering ruin, police said. 
Riot-equipped police, backed by Irish soldiers, moved in to restore order at the minimum-security prison. No terrorist convicts are housed in the compound. 
About 40 Inmates clambered onto the roof of a two-story recreation hall and held out for a time, but gave up and climbed down as dusk fell, police said. 
Inmates had commandered a bul­ldozer and smashed across the com-
By ANN KALTENBACH 
!ienlorStaffReporter 
It's that time of year again. 
Saint Mary's has recently added new smiling faculty faces and ad­ministrative staff appointments. 
Beginning duties as Holy Cross Hall residence director is Teresa Garrick. She is currently completing a master ofarts degree at Pacific Lut­heran University and was formerly a.'i.o;istant director of student ac­tivities and director ofElderhostel at 
Pacific  Lutheran  University  in  
Tacoma, Wash.  
"I  needed  residential  life  ex­ 

perience In the hopes of gaining a higher position In student alfairs," said Garrick. 
She cited creating a sense of com­munity and respecting the rights of others as hall objectives. 
"So f.u," Garrick added, "I really like Saint Mary's. Everyone is friendly and helpful." 
In other appointments, Sister Maria McDermott has been named special assistant to acting assistant president William Hickey. Most recently chairing the education department, McDermott has served pound a.'i they torched buildings, witnesses said. They said three buildings were destroyed and two others heavily damaged. 
One guard was slightly injured by a gasoline bomb, but no inmates were reported hurt, police said. 
Justice Minister Michael Noonan had said the rooftop protesters could stay there "until they come to their senses and realize that no prison system will tolerate activities of the type that they have been in­dulging in." 
Noonan rejected their demands for transfers to mainland jails oftheir choice and assurances that they would not lose the normal time off for good behavior from their sen­tences as a result of the distur­bances. 
as a member of the College's ad­ministration or faculty for 28 years. 
Joining the campus ministry department are Rene Kay, Father Thomas Stella and Jeanne Vasoli. 
New faculty members have also joined the ranks of several depart­ments. 
Acting as visiting assistant art professor is Julie Wroblewski, a 1982 Saint Mary's graduate. She received a master's in fine art from the Cranbrook Academy of Art in May. 
Carol Kirkner, a Notre Dame alumna, has been named a biology laboratory instructor. She was for­merly a research assistant at Notre Dame. 
Marlis Sever has been appointed a biology lecturer while Andrea Wade will join the department as a visiting professor. Wade earned her Ph.D. from Notre Dame. 
The business administration and economics department have ac­quired four new lecturers. 
joseph McKew, earned his MBA from Western Michigan University. Kalyan Patra, an MBA recipient of the Indian Institute of Management, 
Monday, September 2, 1985 -page 3 
The Obocrvcr/Poul Clfarclll 

right arejohn Massarela, Tom Roggeman, Bishop 
Dl4ny, and john Drew. Earlier yesterday the Bis­
hop celebrated mass in the ball. 
Calcutta, India, has also joined the department. 
Herb True and Marcel Vroman have also been named lecturers in the business and economics depart­ment. Vroman is currently complet­ing work toward an Master of Arts degree at Notre Dame. 
Earning her Ph.D at Notre Dame, Pamela Plouhar has been named a chemistry and physics lecturer. 
In the department of communica­tions and theater, there are three new additions to the staff. 
Cynthia Dieckgrafe, master's of fine arts from the University of Il­linois, and Roberta Rude, who received her master's of arts from Trinity University, have been ap­pointed assistant professors. 
Also joining the communication and theatre department as lecturer and visiting lecturer respectively are Carol Winchester, MS, Bradley Uni­versity, and Anita Zimmerman. Zim­merman is currently working towards a Master of Directing at In­diana University at Bloomington. 
The English department will be sporting many new faces this semester. 
Acting as a visiting professor and 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
chairman of the English department is David Clark. Receiving his Ph.D. from Yale, Clark was formerly an English professor at the University of Massachusetts. 
Clark said, "Saint Mary's is great. I retired from the University of Mas­sachusetts, but I really didn't want to retire. Saint Mary's was a golden op­portunity for me." 
). Robert Baker, MA, Notre Dame, has been appointed an English lec­turer. 
Coming to Saint Mary's from Stan­ford University is lecturer Charles Kirkpatrick. He is currently working towards a Ph.D. at the University of Texas. 
Jane Porter, MA, Pennsylvania State University, and Patricia Quat­trio, Ph.D. candidate, Notre Dame, will serve as English department lec­turers. 
The government department has named Jane Fleming as a visiting in­structor. 
A Ph.D. candidate at Southern Il­linois University, Fleming said, "I knew the reputation of Saint Mary's as a very good school." 
She added, "I like the smallness of the school and the feeling of com­munity. It's great." 
Also acting as a government In­structor is Stephen Manning, a Ph.D. candidate from the University of Wisconsin. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
IMPORTANT SENIOR PRE-lAW SOCIE1Y MEETING Tue.. Sept. 3, 7:30p.m. Library Aud. 
SPEAKERS: DEAN WADDICK, DEAN UNK, AND PROF. MARUllO 
,,~\t!>\\\Y (topics Include; lsat, personal statements, appllcatlona, etc.) tA~tA'b t'~~ SPONSOREDBYTHEND/SNCPRE-IAWSOCIETY 
Several paid positions are open f or 
• 
illustration • editorial cartooning 

• 
advertising art • graphics 


Come up to the Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune to apply. 
• 
Fill out a short application 

• 
Leave it with 3-5 examples of your work at 


the front desk. (Please use pen and ink or black felt tip--no ball point pen.) 
DEADLINE -5 P.M., SEPT. 4 
The history department has added Brian Pavlac, a former Notre Dame instructor, to its staff along with in­structor Walter Rinderle, a Notre Dame Ph.D. recipient. 
William ). Knight, a visiting as­sociate professor, Ph.D., University of California at Berkeley; Lauren Krieger, lecturer, MA, Michigan State University, and Karen Whitehead, MS, Butler University, will join the mathematics depart­ment this fall. 
Kevin Bauman, MA, Notre Dame, has been named a modern languages lecturer. 
New to the music department is Loretta Robinson, assistant profes­sor, MM, University of Cincinnati Conservatory of Music. 
Holding an Master of Science, Nursing from the Indiana University, Cynthia Bower will join the nursing department as an assistant professor. Melody Kessler, MS, University of San Diego, wi)J fill the same capacity. 
The philosophy department will add Terry Hall, MA Oklahoma State University, to its ranks as a lecturer. Joining him in the department will be visiting assistant professor Stuart Warner, Ph.D., Michigan State Uni­versity. 
Jyotsna Vasudev, Ph.D., University of Pittsburgh, has been named visit­ing assistant professor of psychol­ogy. 

The Observer Monday, September 2, 1985 -page 4 
Elena to hit land today 
Alllloclated Press The hurricane started moving yes­terday afternoon, when Zimmer said 
CEDAR KEY, Fla. -Unpredictable the storm had "established a definite Elena, after being stalled at sea for track, heading north-northwest." two days, strengthened to a major At 7:30 p.m. EDT the storm's hurricane with sustained winds of center was 40 miles south­125 mph yesterday and headed southwest of Panama City, the toward the Gulf Coast, where the center said. Zimmer said the "best second evacuation in four days was bet" was landfall between Pen­ordered. sacola, at the western tip of the Pan-
Some 250,000 people in Florida's handle, and Mobile, about 70 miles Panhandle were told to flee the to the west. storm Sunday, as were 175,000 ll!i!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. people on Alabama's coast. ~you 
Hurricane warnings were ex-affordto~amble tended westward from Yankeetown, l'th the LS I, GM n·r, 
below Florida's Panhandle, to n beyond New Orleans. The warnings GRE,orMCA17 covered more than 500 miles of 
coast. Probably not. Great grades The storm, blamed for at least one alone may not be enough to death, was expected to make landfall impress the grad school of 
your choice. 
by daybreak today between Pen-Scores play a part. And
afternoon. High tides in the area were ap­
sacolaand Mobile, Ala., ifitsustained thafs how Stanley H. Kaplan its movement of I0 mph to the can help.
was that by the time the senate tried committees shall make recom­north-northwest, Mark Zimmer, a The Kaplan course teachesto change the fiscal policy, it was too mendations.
Senate 
forecaster with the National Hur-test-taking techniques, reviews
late. Neal agreed that the word
continuedfrom page 1 ricane Center said yesterday course subjects, and increases
"The 80-20 policy was written in "allocate" should be changed to 
evening. the odds that you'll do the best
Tyson said he would be willing to stone by then. The senate wanted to "recommend." Neil said, however, Farther south, officials said they you can do.
consider changing the SO-percent, change it but they could not at that that the committees did make would lift evacuation orders in the So ifyou've been out of
20-percent split. "I have no par­point," Healy said. recommendations and the budget 
central Florida area around Tampa school for a while and need a
ticular investment in 80-20, 70-30, Abood also pointed out that the was brought to the senate. 
yesterday evening, letting some refresher, or even ifyot.ire fresh
or 60-40, so if they have a recom­fiscal policy states that the commit­"What it says on (the fiscal policy) 
500,000 people return home. Na-out of college, do what over 1
mendation, then fine." tees shall "allocate" funds, yet the and what happens are two different 
tional Guard troops called out ear-million students have done.
The problem, according to Healy, constitution expressly states that things," she said. 
lier yesterday to keep restless Take Kaplan. Why take lWeinmann said CoachJill Unden­a "penthouse on the seventh floor" evacueesfrom returning to the coast a chance with your feld, who thought her center­of the hospital, where her friends were then told to check identifica-career?
Weinmann 
halfback had been shot by a B.B. gun, "snuck in after visiting hours saying tions ofthose returning. continuedfrom page 1 carried her from the field to the they were my relatives and my Elena had forced evacuation in 
KAPLAN 
said. "I thought someone had driven training room at the A.C.C. roommates, even though I live in a . the Panhandle and in Alabama's two a hockey ball into myleg, but usually single," she said. 
coastal counties on Thursday before 5TANI£Y H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl CENT£R LTD when you get hit by a hockey ball, it After a trainer examined her leg, Weinmann, who is hoping to veering toward Florida's west-The worlds leading hurts on the surface. she said, she was taken to the emer­recover in time for the opening central coast, where an estimated I test prep organization. 
"But this pain shot right through gency room at Saint Joseph's Medi­game Sept. 13 against Ball State, said million people were evacuated. Pan-SOUTH BEND AREA handle and Alabama residents
my leg," Weinmann said. calCenter. she would not be using a golfcart to 
returned home as the storm Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr.
"I didn't think I got shot, but I Her leg also was x-rayed and get around campus. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. couldn't stand up," she said. "I had examined to discover the bullet's wobbled 80 miles west-southwestof South Bend, Indiana 46637 an unstable ligament and I just trajectory to aid in the investigation. "I don't want to lose any strength Cedar Key in the Gulf of Mexico on (219)"272·4135 
thought it had given out." After the surgery, she was taken to so I'll just hobble," she said. Saturday. Jliiiiii••iiiiiiiilriiii;iiiiiiiiiill 

APPhoto 
proximately I0 feet above normal. Residents took advantage of a break in the storm to tie things down as bestaspossible. Story at right. 

................................................
i lhe 1MUSICAL CI-IAIRS» world retord ~ i 
Sept b,lq~,-at §:ts-on Field
i :•
~;strotiofl :3:oo-5=Is­
• 
: 
Spon5ored by :~ZIP to~ )Cocek-Cola l 
.................................................• 


4 
.... ••••• ,,. 


The Observer Monday, September 2, 1985 -page 5 

APPhoto

The face ofSouth Africa Gavin Andrews, 14, his face suffered from buckshot wounds, waits for an ambulance in Manenberg township near Cape Town Thursday. Police moved against a group of school children who were staging a protest march. 

Dance Class Accompanist Needed Fox Ballet and Modem, Possibly Jazz Classes Held at St. Mary's Please Call IfInterested lndi Dieckgrase Dance Faculty 
284-4643 284-4640 
RENT BY SEMESTER 
Color TV Microwave Ovens $70/semester $50/semester 
~color City 259-7661 
Po\'18F 

---· 
I 


ata 
Price for Everyone 
TheLedlgEdgeModei"D" Plr10IDCompul8r 
NIBM~ $1895. Complete. 
The Leading Edge Model 0 PC comes with 256K RAM. lwo 320K floppy disk drives. a high reaolutlon monochrome monitor, buill-In graphics, built In color, and a price that can't be beat. For a limited lime all NO/SMC students, stall, and faculty can bring In their University ID'a and purchase a Leading Edge Model D, the Leading Edge Wordproceuor, and a lrolherleHer quality printer tor Jual S1895 complete. Add only $50 tor the Leading Edge Spelling Checker. Far more Information contact: 
computet 401 N. Michigan 
South Bend, IN 46601
,pcclall1t1 
234-5002 

Artificial heart recipient improves 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. -Michael Drum­mond shed his fever Saturday after doctors increased the blood flow through his artificial heart, and the youngest recipient of a Jarvik-7 was monitored for signs of pneumonia, his surgeon said. 
"I think he looks much, much bet­ter than he did yesterday," Dr. Jack Copeland said of the 25-year-old su­permarket assistant manager who on Thursday became the sixth person to receive the plastic device. 
Copeland, who installed the device during an operation at the University Medical Center, plans to remove it and implant a human heart, it is hoped within three weeks. 

Drummond, who suffered a viral heart infection in March, had been taken off a respirator for six hours 
Friday,  but  was  reconnected  be­ 
cause  of  breathing  difficulties  
caused  by  fluid  in  his  lungs,  

Copeland said. 
Although a broncoscopy showed no evidence ofinfection in his lungs, doctors were concerned he could develop pneumonia, Copeland said at a news conference. 
Drummond, who weighed bet­ween 210 and 220 pounds when he entered the hospital Monday with a severely diseased heart muscle, eliminated about 10 pounds of fluid in the last day, much of it after the heart rate was increased. 
Copeland said doctors thought they had an adequate blood flow, about 6 liters per minute, but the amount was insufficient because of Drummond's size. 
The problem was detected Friday night when an examination showed that Drummond's extremities were cool while his face, torso, back and upper legs were warm. 
Meanwhile, Drummond's parents said they were grateful their son has been kept alive by the device, al­though his mother said she had been against it. 
"But when you're against the wall you have no choice," Joan Drum­mond said. 
Clarence Drummond said, "We brought our son down here and he was dying, and today he's looking great.... He's scared but he's doing very well with it." 
Taxes and Geneva aWait Reagan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-With few big vic­tories under his belt this year, Presi­dent Reagan faces more tough battles with Congress this fall on everything from taxes and trade to sanctions against South Africa, topped off by a summit showdown with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbac­hev. 
It is a challenging autumn agenda for anyone, much less a 74-year-old president who underwent major surgery for colon cancer just seven weeks ago. The difficulties are com­pounded by a sluggish economy, a simmering White House feud with Republicans in Congress and the GOP's nervousness over next year's congressional elections. 

Given Reagan's mixed record of achievements and setbacks this year, his performance in the final four months of 1985 could determine how much steam Is left in the "Second American Revolution" he 
proclaimed  or  whether  his  ad­ 
ministration  is losing its  political  
muscle.  

"I am feeling fine and when we get back to Washington it's going to be full steam ahead," Reagan promised in his only public appearance during his 23-day' California vacation that ends today. He returns to work with 
his popularity at an all-time high, ac­
cording to a poll published by Time 
magazine in August. 
Administration strategists believe the chief measures of Reagan's success or failure this year will be his meeting in Geneva with Gorbachev in November, and the progress ofhis plan for sweeping changes In the tax code. 
Already, the administration has dampened expectations of any breakthrough In U.S.-Soviet relations at the summit, saying it may be dlf· ficult to achieve even incremental improvements without some change In the Kremlin's approach to arms issues. 
Space shuttle Discovery successful in repair ofcommunication satellite 
Associated Press 
NASA Space Center, Houston ­With a mighty heave and a weightlifter's grunt, spacewalker James "Ox" van Hoften sent a repaired satellite spinning off on its own yesterday, successfully com­pleting a daring salvage project in space. 
"Good spin, Ox," called fellov· spacewalker Bill Fisher as the 7 ton Syncom 3 satellite whirled away from the space shuttle Discovery at three revolutions per minute. "Ahhhh, that's great." 
"Well done, Ox," said mission commander Joe Engle, who watched from Discovery's cabin. 
Van Hoften pushed the satellite away from the shuttle while stand­ing on the end ofDiscovery's 50-foot robot arm, 230 miles above the Pacific Ocean. 

The hand launch was the final act of a complex repair job that energized dead electrical circuits inside the Syncom 3 and gave the $85 million communications craft a chan<;e to climb out of its uselessly low orbit and become a working satellite. 
About an hour later, Mission Con­trol told the astronauts that a ground station had contacted Syncom 3 by radio and that the satellite had responded to commands. 
"The status (of the satellite) looks good," said Mission Control. 
"That's good news," replied Engle. "If you've got any other satellites that need fixing, we'll be 

·······•e•·······················••e••••••••e•e' 
•e

We're welcoming back all ND/SMC students with the campus' best music. 
TVRN US ON & TUN£ US INI 
AM64 WVFIAM 
••eeeeeeee•••••••eeeeeeeeeeeeee•••eeeeeeeeee•e•• 
REFRIGERATORS For Rent 
(New 2.6 Cubic ft. Models) Call 282-2801 for student rate 341 0 Western Ave 
glad to take care of them before we come down.'1 
Fisher and van Hoften worked in 
the vacuum of space for four hours 
and 34 minutes to complete the job 
started in a record seven-hour, 
eight-minute spacewalk Saturday. 
Van Hoften was forced to enter 
the airlock ahead of Fisher and at­
tach an oxygen hose to his suit when 
he got a pressure warning, but by 
then the job was done. 
With the salvage work finished, Discovery's mission goals were completed. In addition to fixing Syn­com 3, the astronauts also launched three other satellites. 
The astronauts will stow equip­ment aboard the craft Monday and then land before dawn Tuesday at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif. 
As Syncom 3 spun away, the astronauts said they could still see lights blinking on an electronic box Fisher installed on its side Saturday. The box will permit ground stations to command the satellite, bypassing a failed automatic timing system. 
But officials said it will be at least two months before they know for sure lfSyncom 3 has been saved. 
Engineers at Hughes Communica­tions Co., which owns the satellite, said Its II,000 pounds ofrocket fuel had been chilled during its more than 2,000 lifeless orbits. The propellant must be ailowed to slowly warm up In sunshine before the engines can be fired. If success­ful, the rocket firings will place the satellite on station 22,300 miles above the Earth. 


~i~~~_()__i_ll___t________________
M_o_nd-ay_,se-pt-em-be_r_2,_198-S--p-ag-e6 
USC ticket should be optional student purchase 
All students buying season football tickets this year will become the proud possessors of a ticket to a game against the University of Southern California · a game often the high­light of the Notre Dame season. This year, however, some students may not wish to have a ticket: the game is during October break, and they simply cannot return for it. 
Tom Mowle 
on the line 
This situation has happened before. Two years ago, the Army game was on the second weekend offall break. Students were given the option ofpurchasing season tickets for all the games or a smaller package excluding the Army ticket. This year students are not given that choice. If they want season tickets, they must pay for the Southern Cal game, whether they can go or not. 
Perhaps there is a good reason for this. Mike Bobinski, Notre Dame ticket manager, ex­plained Notre Dame "didn't offer the option because we wanted to cut down on time during the ticket issue." That is a goal that can­not be faulted. A return to the mail-in policies of the past · with attendants searching for or­der forms and, in this case, checking to see which package was ordered · would be a step in the wrong direction. 
Bobinski also noted "historically USC has been the big game ofthe year. We felt it was of sufficient attention that the kids would want to go." Certainly students' desire to go to the USC game cannot be questioned. But what about those who cannot go? 
Since I had no idea how many that may be · if it were sufficiently small, I would have to agree that Bobinski made the right decision · I took a small poll. I called at random a resident of each dorm and an off-campus student, dividing my calls evenly among class and col· lege. Ofthese 25 students, six would not have bought the Southern Cal ticket, had they had the option. 

Friends of mine who have taken statistics assure me this 24 percent figure is derived from a valid sample. But to be conservative, I'll estimate that at least 1,000 undergraduates would have taken the smaller package. 
This strikes me as a sufficient number to warrant offering the five-game option. 
The students polled were nearly un­animous in agreeing it should have been available. Only two students disagreed, one explaining "I hate Southern Cal and am com­ing back special for that game." 
Three of the 25 ·by my estimate, at least 500 from the overall student body · will not be able to return for the game, and another is not sure. These four gave such reasons for not at· tending as "I will be at home in California," "I can't get back from break," and "It would be inconvenient." 
For those who will not be using their tick· ets, Bobinski mentioned the possibility of donating them to Logan Center so the children there could see a football game. While not all of the four agreed · two would rather sell their tickets · this would be a charitab:e use for the tickets. 
Any adverse effect the option might have on the length of lines during ticket distribution could be avoided. When the applications are presented, the attendant could remove the Southern Cal ticket. Then it could be stamped for general admission and resold to the public. Or the University could donate extra tickets to Logan Center and other worthy groups. This would save students the cost of a ticket they know in advance will not be useable. 
An additional five students volunteered they would not want a ticket on that weekend ifit were for a less important game. 
This problem often will arise when a home game falls on the second weekend of fall break. The most simple and fair solution is to always offer students the choice of not buying such a ticket. 
Tom Mowle is a fourth-year electrical en­gineering and international relations major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Protestors must look beyond apartheid injustice 
The events taking place in South Africa have been splashed across the headlines these past few weeks. Many people in the United States have responded to those events: Congress has proposed sanctions, Americans have been protesting in the streets and nearly everyone has condemned what is happening there. 
Steve Safranek a view from the limb 
Everyone is being persuaded to join the band wagon. In South Africa, a race is being denied what we consider basic rights: the 
~ 
right to vote, the right to a fair wage, the right
I 
to free association and many other rights. Cer· r tainly, the blacks and other races there do 
r 
deserve those rights. However, the way in 
r 
which Americans are responding to that state 
r 
of injustice seems inconsistent with the at·
I 
titude which Americans have expressed in so
I 
many other international affairs. 
When American companies have been used to support certain policies in South or Central America or in Iran, the same people who now support economic sanctions in South Africa have proclaimed that American companies should not be pawns of American foreign policy. They promote such actions now be· cause they happen to agree with the policy that is being promoted. 
The value being promoted in South Africa appears clear: the right ofall men to a fair and equal voice in their government · in other words . democracy or representative govern­ment. This, Americans believe, is a right ofall 
Doonesbury 
people. 
Americans, though, are concerned with South Africa more because it feels good to right the wrongs there than to promote the valuable principles which are at stake. 
South Africa, because of its relatively small size and economic ties to the West, is easy to influence. And Americans are determined to see that our influence brings about justice, ac­cording to our standards, in South Africa. 
The enthusiasm with which Americans have embraced the South African cause is surprising. As the Soviets slaughtered count· less people in Afghanistan, Americans were silent. As the Vietnamese massacred countless people in southeast Asia, Americans let it pass unnoticed. And as the Soviets repeatedly repressed the millions in eastern Europe, Americans remained silent. This silence, seen in light of our outrage over South Africa, is peculiar. 
The American response is encouraging ifit can be seen as a dedicated response to promoting democracy wherever we can. Our response appears to be an effort to purge our collective conscience. It appears to be an at· tempt to right the wrongs ofour own history of black enslavement. And it seems uncon­nected with a principle of promoting univer­sal suffrage and justice for all men · both black and white. 
The blacks of South Africa will rightly benefit from the various actions taken ·by Americans. Nevertheless, once the emotions subside, the people of western Europe still will be enslaved by a government with which Americans have chosen to talk rather than confront. The people of Afghanistan still will be systematically repressed. 

And as surely as night follows day, Americans will return to other pastimes, hardly caring or even wonderingwhy so many Cubans or East Germans have fled to the West. These same people who now protest on the streets ofAmerica will ask the United States to talk with the Russians this fall and to talk with Fidel Castro, even as so many of his countrymen flee to our shores. 
Such duplicity reveals the principle of our action in South Africa is not respect for justice, equality or other human fights. Instead, our actions are an emotive response which merely coincides with the promotion of these basic human rights. 
So after the South Africans are granted their rights due to our vigorous intervention, the people of eastern Europe, Afghanistan, the Philippines and other countries too numerous to name, will continue to live without a cham­pion for their rights. Instead, their only viable champion, its conscience cleared, will turn its attention to other things that happen to feel good. 
Steve Safranek is a second-year law stu­dent at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Garry Trudeau 

Department Managers 
Business Manager. Dav1d StephenItCh Advert!Stng Manager Anne Cull1gan Controller. B1ll H1ghducheck Systems Manager Mark B. Johnson Product!On,Manager John A. Men nell 
Founded November 3, 1966 
YUP! 7D THE APP/.£. 
/A/&'RC MOVING 50M£TIM& 

I FINI'3HBJMY RRST 
TH/5/A/E£1<. Jl15TA5

eA1CH OFPAINTINGS 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 
The Observer is the independent newpaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communtty. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, 's encouraged. 
Quote of the day 
"We are not on earth as museum keepers, but to cultivate a flourish­ing garden oflife." 
Popejohn XXIII (1881-1963) 

Editorial Board 

Ed1tor-tn·Ch1ef Managtng Ed1tor News Ed1tor . . News Editor. Saint Mary's Execut1ve Editor. Sports Editor . . Accent Ed1tor . Viewpoint Ed1tor Photography Ed1tor . Copy Chief. 
Sarah E. Hamilton Amy Stephan Ketth Hamson Jr. Dan McCullough . Theresa Guanno .... Jeff Blumb . Mary Healy Joe Murphy Peter C. Laches Frank L1po 

Accent 
Monday, September 2, 1985 -page 7 
Turner and Frey turn the heat on at the ACC 
Pat Beaudine 
Concert review 
A 
s seniors in line for football 
tickets listened from their over­
night camps outside the ACC, Tina 
Turner and Glen Frey made sparks 
fly inside. lbe audience at the 
Private Dancer Tour performance 
was prepared for a show, and what a 
show it was. 
The concert got underway with 
an opener by former Eagle Glenn 
Frey. He came out looking slick­
almost too slick-in a suit and tie, 
and launched right into "I Found 
Somebody," a hit from his first solo 
album. It was a perfect. con­
servatively performed rendition, 
but just a little slow for a concert 
openc.·r. 
'lbe next two song.~. "Sexy Girl" 
and "'lbe One You Love," followed 
suit and were again expertly per­
formed. lie seemed to follow the 
Eagles' philosophy of performing a 
song exactly as it sounds on the 
ret·ord. 
After that mellow and rather 
curious start, Frey started to show 
sparks of his old monster self. 
"Parlytown" was a highlight of the 
set, and the saxophone solo showed 
the highly respectable hand at its 
best. 
"Smuggler's Blues" came com­plete with jokes about Digger Phdps, who should, according to Frey, "lose the carnation." Frey also mentioned Coach Gerry Faust when he dedicated "The Heat Is On," a song that won instant ap­proval from the crowd. 
"Heartache Tonight" recalled frey's glory days with the Eagles. But the song "an old Eagles song from an old Eagle" stole the show. 
lbe audience then recharged in anticipation of the eigth wonder of the world, Tina Turner. Always running the risk of being overrated or being treated as a mere sex sym­bol. Turner established herselfas more than that the minute she charged on stage. With comments likt•, "Are you ready for me? ... Well, I'm ready for you," she got the audience hooked, and with her vocal gymnastics and onstage presence, she established her credibility as well. 
Turner tore through the first part of the set and a powerful rendition of"River Deep, Mountain High." Although the subtle intricacies of the next song, "You Better Be Good to Me," were lost in a blaze ofdis­tortion and guitars, Tina rose above the din of the audience and delivered another vocal exhibition. 
Turner appeared dressed to kill for the next song, "Private Dancer," which turned into a jam with saxop­honist/bodybuilder Tim Capello adding some pelvic thrusts to ac­cent his screaming solo. "What's Love Got To Do With It," and "Let's Stay Together" were back to back successes performed later in the set. Both were notable for their vocals, and the latter received spe­cial response. After all, it was responsible for relaunching her career. 


Turner's special chemistry was further illustrated by her next two songs, "Help Me" and "Proud Mary." During the Creedence clas­sic she was at her best, informing the audience that "the longer I do it, the better It gets." She also asserted," People ask me when I'm ever going to slow down. You know what l tell them? I'm just getting stronger!" 
After three encores, including the appropriate "Legs," Turner launched into the showstopper, Bruce Springsteen's "Dancing in the Dark." It was a perfect ending to a steamy evening, highlighting her energy and connection with the crowd. 
To say that the heat was on at last night's show would be an under­statement. Surprisingly and most convincingly, Glenn Frey proved himself to be that same all-nighter he was when he made the best music of his career. And Tina Turner showed what a dynamic and complete performer she is. 
Are you funny? 
become an Accent humor columnist ••• and have the campus in stitches 
Contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 3rd floor of LaFortune, 239-5303 


I 
Monday, September 2, 1985 -page 8 

.:.... _ 
Sports Briefs 
The ND wrestling team will be meeting today at 
5:15 p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC. All prospective wrestlers should attend. · The Observer 
The ND Water Polo Club will begin practice tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone who is interested may attend. For more information, contact Mike Roberts at 272-3971 or Tom O'Reilly at 283-3588. ·The Observer 
The ND Rugby Club will begin practice today. Players should meet behind Stepan Center. Anyone who is in­terested may attend; no experience is necessary.· The Observer 
The ND Women's Cross Country Club will begin practice today at 4:30p.m. at the steps ofthe Administra­tion Building. Anyone who is interested may attend. For more in­formation, call Mary Beth at 277-1983,Julia at 283-2720, Nancy at 283-4222 or Kathleen at 283-3873. ·The Observer 
The ND hockey team will have physicals for veteran and prospective players tomorrow at 9 p.m. in the training room in the ACC. Before taking physicals, all players must pick up a questionairre before 6 p.m. tomorrow at the hockey office. · The 
Observer 

The ND Squash Club will be meeting Thursday at 
6:30 p.m. in the Uttle Theatre in LaFortune. Anyone who is in­terested may attend. Both hardball and softball players are welcome. For more information, call William Mapother at 283·3451. · The Ob­server 
200 Michigan football tickets will be offered 
for sale to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students this week. Anyone 
who is interested may sign up for a lottery on Friday between 1 p.m. 
and 4:30 p.m. at the OBUD desk on the first floor of LaFortune. Lot­
tery winners will be posted on Sunday, and each winner will be 
allowed to purchase one or two tickets. -The Observer A scuba-diving course is being offered by NVA. Anyone who is interested should attend an information meeting on Wednesday at 6 p.m. in room 219 ofthe Rockne Memorial Building .. The Observer 
Aerobics for men and women are bei.ng of­
fered by NVA. Classes begin on Wednesday, and will meet on Mon­
days and Wednesdays at 4 p.m. and 5:10p.m. and Tuesdays and 
Thursdays at 4 p.m. There will be a small fee for students, faculty and 
staff. Anyone who is interested may register in advance at the NVA 
office or before class in ACC Gym 4. For more information, call NVA 
at 239-6100. · The Observer 

Alightexercise class is being offered by NVAevery Tuesday and Thursday at 5:10 p.m. in ACC Gym 4, beginning Thursday. ·The Observer 
Women's sports competitions in softball, 
soccer, tennis, golfand running (5K)will be part ofRun, Jane, Run, a women-in-sports weekend, which will be held by the YWCA Sept. 13 through Sept. 15. Information and entryforms will be available at the NVA office in the ACC until Friday. -The Observer 
A grad-faculty tennis tournamentwill be held by NVA. There will be men's and women's singles and mixed doubles divisions. The deadline for entries is Wednesday at the NVA office In the ACC. For more information, call239-6100. ·The Obser­ver 
A scramble golftournament will be held by 
NVA on Sunday, Sept. 15. Students, faculty and staff may register as individuals or pairs. The deadline for submitting S4 greens fees to the NVA office Is Sept. 11. -The Observer 
More NVAinformationis available by calling 239· 6100 or by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC. · The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. · The Observer 
Soccer 
continuedjrompage 12 
some players to new positions, hel­ping to even out the talent at both ends of the field. 
"Last year, our strength was our defense," Grace says, "but this year, our offense has the potential to score against the best teams in the country. 
"Our defense at midfield is ten times better than it was last year," he continues. "This midfield we have now is a very hard-nosed group. They are going to make the other team work like hell to get through the midfield." 
The last line ofdefense should be as strong as it was last season, and it also should be able to start off the offense more effectively than last year's squad. According to Grace, "the modern game is attacking from behind," and to prove his commit· ment to that strategy, he has moved his returning leading scorer, junior Pat Szanto, to the sweeper back posi­tion. 
The Irish will line up this season in a 4-4-2 formation, which is what most top-20 teams use, Grace says. A sweeper and a stopper will team with two wings in the defensive third of the field and four midfielders will carry the attack to two strikers on the front line. 
As the flow of the game goes in favor of the Irish, Grace says he will move people up to the front line to take full advantage of offensive op­portunities. 
"When we are good, we've got to make sure we capitalize," he says. "We've got to be very opportunistic. We can't afford to play our best and not get something out of it, even if it's confidence." 
The Irish will have to build a lot of confidence in themselves this season if they are going to survive the schedule that they have in front of them. If they do, some people might be surprised when Notre Dame ends the season with more than ll wins. 
The Ohserr•.,r :'l;orrt: Damt· otfin·. lotarnl on rhe rhir<.l floor of l.ah>rrunt·· ~ru<.lenr l.t·nra. acn·pr-l'ia,,ifinl a<.ln·rri,in~ from') a.m. unril·t p 111.. \lon<.la\· lhrou~h l'ri<.la~ Tht' ( JI>StTI'<'Y ~ainr \Ian·, olfitT. lot·arnl on rht· rhir<.l floor of lla~~r Colk~e l.t·nrer. anTpl' l'ia"ifinh from 12:.~0 p m. unril .~p.m .. \fon­da\-thou~h l'ri<.la\' lka<.llint· t<>r nexr-<.la\' da"itinb b .~ p.m. All classified' mu'r he prepaid. t·irht·r in pt'""" or h\· mail. C:har~e ;., I 0 tTnh pn fin· charac­
Classifieds 
le" n <.Ia\' 
NOTICES 
$10.$380 Weekly/Up MeiHng Circu._.! No ~/quorul Sincerely interealed rulh Nll-eaeed envelope: Dept. AM· 7CEG, PO Box 830, Woode1ock, ll 60098. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHilli 234-81117 
SAVE SSS ON YOUR TEXTII!! USED CLASS BOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD. PRESENT THIS AD AND RECEIVE AN EXTRA $5 OFF Of $50 PURCHASE. PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 SO. BEND AVE, 233-2342. 
Loving mother wiM ~~ In her home juat nor1h d campua. 2n-24Jl4. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: l.l.Been blue book b-el from our.ide !he NO booka1ore on 8/27 con­tents -e bMick chec:kbook,Ti 35 Clll­culator,gold era.. pen, brown~ wilh courae llchedule and courae -'Juat· ment forma, glaeaea in a bMick caae,tan Ray a.n caae and Olher erticlea. REWARD offered.Cell JEFF GRIFFIN 
288-5352. ' 
FOUND: clue nng near Mom-y· call 3413 ro identify 
OfiTHOOONTIC JIET AINEJI found 8/28 in Admin Bldg. If it fila you lt'a youra. Call Brian 239-5n2 ro claim. 

REWARD-REWARD-REWARD­LOST AMETHYST and GOLD BEADED BRACELET. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO ME!! IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL GRETCHEN. AT 3299. 
p Pulsar watch loa! in South dining hall during lunch on Tuesday. If found, pi­call Mike at 1644. High sentimental value. $REWARD$ 
FOR RENT 
APAJITMENT FOR JIENT PERFECT FOR GRAD. STUDENT. 1·112 BEDROOM, All UTILITIES, STOVE AND REFRIG. FURNISHED. EASY WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. ONE YEAR'S LEASE. NO PETS OR CHILDREN. $275/MONTH. $200 DAMAGE DEPOSIT. REFERENCES REQUIRED. CALL232·1405 DAYS; '07· 0151 EVENINGS. 
5-bdrm. house. hall mile from campus. 19095 Cleveland. $160/mo./peraon. Cell Jim '07·2194 or 674-6595. 
Private entrance. rwo room tumiahed, utilitiea paid. Call mornings 288-0955. 
Srorage. Large barn on Mishawaka Ave. at Ironwood. On bua line. 8 mon. leue $100.00 mon. 255-9078 
MALE ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE COSTS IN 2·BEDROOM HOUSE, FULLY FURNISHED, IN LEEPER PARK, LESS THAN 2 MILES FROM CAMPUS. $150/MO. CALL STAN 287-4024. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE APARTMENT WITH THREE FEMALES AT NOTRE DAME APART· MENTS. AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY. FOR MORE INFO CALL MARGARET AT 232-6069 OR 283--4088. 
FEIIALE JIOOMATES WANTED AT 
N.D. APTI. PLEASE CONTACT ANNE AT2t004 
WANTED 
Need exira cash? Wanled: a responsible peraon Willing ro bllbyail on weekends tor Soulh Bend reaident Call Patty Corcoran at 272· 6464. 
COMPUTER RETAIL STORE NEEDS STUDENTS, H'OURS FLEXIBLE PART TIME $3.35 HOUR 2n-5026 ASK FOR RAY 
Need ride to TEJIJIE HAUTE any weekends or break. Cell Tom x1545 
nighIS. 
SMC faculty person ia -king a atudent ro help clean my cluey big old houae on Thulldaya during !he achool y-. 234­4496, $4. per hour. 
DELIVERY PERSON WANTED. MUST HAVE OWN CAR PART-TIME EVENINGS. APPLY IN PERSON RICCO'S OLDE HOUSE PIZZERIA, 130 DIXIEWAY NO.,ACROSS FROM BIG C LUMBER. 
FOR SALE 
Metal bool<shelving, 36"x12"x72" high. 272-6358 or -at 18408 Dougla Rd. (hall mile_, of Credil Union). 
TYPEWRITER: amd portable eleclronic. Cell5435 daya;256-1312 eve. 
ALJIIOHT, who needl floppy diaka tor clue? Only $1 .50, and guaranleed. Call Johnat3673. yyyBEATtheBOOKSTORE 

TICKETS 
PLEASE. I REALLY NEED 2·3 TICKETS FOR THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILLING TO PAY ANY$$$$$. PLEASE CALLSCOTI AT272·9518. 
NEED4 MICH. ST. TIX 272·2454 
WILLING TO TRADE LSU, MISS, ARMY NAVY FOR MSU. CALL SCOTI 1924. 
I DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS • WILUNG TO NEGOTIATE ON PRICES. CALL ANN MARIEAT284-4159. 
................................................................ 
DESPERATELY NEED MICHIGAN STATE TIX FOR UTTLE SIS. URGENT! IF I DON'T GET THESE MY PARENTS WILL NEVER FORGIVE ME! TRADE FOR OTHER HOME GAMES OR MANY SSS. CALL JOHN ]1158. 
Help! I deapenltely need 1 ticket to .!he MSU game. Money no object. Cell Becky at3525. 
NEED 1 MICHIGAN ST. TICKET. WILL PAYSSORWILL TRADEMYARMYAND USC TICKETS. CALL MARNIE 2n­7586!! 
NEED 20R4 MICH ST GAs Wrl PayS$ Cell Jim 283-3527 
I need juat one ticket tor !he Michigan Stale game tor my aiater. Am wiling to trade one of my tickers tor any olher game of !he MUOn or to pay any emounl of SSS$. Pleue call laura at 3141. 
DESPERATELY NEED THREE TICK· ETSTOTHEMICHIGANSTATEGAME!! 284-4099 
NEED 1 TICKET FOR MICHIGAN STATE. 2 FOR SOUTHERN CAL, CALL TOMHAT3175 
PERSONALS 

lnterealed in lnter-Varaity Chriatian Fel· lowahip? Calf Shaila 1985, Kevin 1883 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20.200 30 daya 1/inlerear 11:30 ·12:30 M-F LaFortune Buement 

WE HAVE 4 TIX TO IPJIINGITEEN IN INDYHPT.I......... ...and you don't! Calf 1820 ao -can gloall 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIOUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH Of HOltDAY INN. 
Claael_..,lwi&Monetor beginneno I intermedlatea; reuonable rate. Cell Cas­aian al 239-5899 or 288-4945 
HEUO.. 
KNOCK KNOCK 
MCFLY HEUO.. 
PJIE12EUI PJIE12ELI PJIE12ELI PIIE12ELI 

................................................................ 
REGINA MONTHLY MOVIE NIGHT 
IIL.AZINQ SADDLES IIL.AZINQ SADDLES IIL.AZING SADDLES IIL.AZINQ SADDLES WEDNESDAY NIGHT ]9:30 
AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS AUDI­TIONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS Notre Dame'a Singing and Dancing Enaernble ia looking tor tun and talented individuala to Iii !he tolowing poaitiona: Singera, Oencera. Technician. Photographer, Pianiat. Bua Guitariat, IN· FORMATION MEETING Thureday, Sept 5, 7:00pm Sa!ellile Room, 2nd Floor O'Shag AUDITIONS Monday, Sept 9, 
6:00 • ? Tour plana include Boaton. Chicago, Piltlburgh, Atlanta, San Diego AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS AUDI· liONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS SHENANIGANS AUDI· liONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS 
Vlvela Frencel 
BAHAMAS! Two tickets at aavinga. Call 4033 or 4055 NO. A chance you shouldn't pauupl! 
Lemme tall ya a atory friend. I did ha.t andlung rran.planla in 60 pound hoga lhia aummer. How did I aneathetize !hem? Wilh a shot d bourtlon. 
BAHAMAS!IBAHAMAS!! 4 Sale: 1 depoait tor apol on Senior Trip to Bahama, Oct break. Buy from me and eave SS. For tun in !he aun call KATY 3497 aoon! 
lhanka tor !he help lui apring St Jude 
LONDON 
There·a nowhere in !he world Mke ill 
HNIOJII IENIOJII HMOJII HNIOJII HNIOJII Important Senior Pr•Law Society Meeting: Sept 3. 7:30, Ub. Aud. Topics Include: LIAT, PEJI­IIONAL STATEMENTS, APPUCA­TIONI, MUCH IIIORE THOUGHT: Tha WWd "procnetlnMion" enda the­
• «~a. "refection" 
LOOK FOR ND/SMC SAILING CLUB BOOTH AT ACTIVITIES NIGHT· LESSONS BEGIN AT BEGINNERS LEVEL-<X>ME AND FIND OUT MORE TUESDAY NIGHT! 

The Observer Monday, September 2, 1985 -page 9 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 

The Observer hoto Staff Needs YOU *Many paid positions available *B&W darkroom exp. crucial *Own equipment necessary 
Pick up an application and job description at the Observer office, Jrd floor LaFortune 
HEY NOTRE DAME 
DARE TO BE STUPID WITH 
N,c
~~0 


~~~ TICKETS ~\.~Q ~ $7.50 GENERAL ADMISSION ~-,;:."\,... $3.50 WITH STUDENTJ.D. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 4th, ATSTEPPAN CENTER 
8:00p.m. 

AVAILABLE AT THE ACC BOX OFFICE AND STUDENT RECORD STORE--LAFORTUNE 

Sunshine Promotions Present 
The Guitar VIrtuoso Is coming to South BendII 
Friday, September 6 8:00p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium 
A11seats reserved $13.00 
,.lckets available at the Century Center Box Office, Night Winds (Niles and Mishawaka), J.R.'s (La Porte) and Supersounds (Elkhart). 
•••Don't miss the hottest 

Bill Elliott receives $1 million after winning Grand National 500 race 
Associated Press 
DARLINGTON, S.C. -Bill Elliott, driving a heady, conservative race, watched his top three competitors go up in smoke on his way to win­ning both the Southern 500 Grand National stock car race and a S1 mil­lion bonus. 
Elliott, who earned his lOth vic­tory in 20 starts this season, made it three out of four in the Grand Na­tional "Big Four" and picked up the Winston Million, the biggest single payoff in the history ofauto racing as he outran five-time Southern 500 
winner  Cale  Yarborough  to  the  
finish line.  
"Awesome  Bill  from  Dawson­ 

ville," a 29-year-old Georgian, added his first Southern 500 victory to tri­umphs in the Daytona 500 and the Winston 500 to earn the $1 million prize offered for the first time this year by R.). Reynolds Tobacco Co. 
This week, shrugging off the in­tense pressure that nearly smot· hered the young driver at the World 600, Elliott first ran off to an easy pole victory on Thursday, played it cool for the huge media turnout, then drove confidently to the 14th victory ofhis Grand National career. 

However, Elliott's intimidating Ford Thunderbird was not dominant in the 367-Iap race over the treac­herous 1.366-mile Darlington Inter­national Raceway. In fact, he played a waiting game throughout the swel­tering day as Dale Earnhardt, Harry Gant and Yarborough all took turns in seeming control. 
Just past the halfway point in the 500-mile event, during the longest green-flag stretch in the race slowed by 14 caution periods, Elliott's tires appeared to be wearing badly. He slipped back to fourth, about 15 seconds behind Earnhardt, who was leading at the time. 
The always aggressive Earnhardt, :who was belching smoke from his tires on practically every tum, hung his Chevrolet Monte Carlo SS on the edge throughout the race. With Yar­borough leading on lap 324, Earnhardt slid sideways off the second tum, tagged the wall and slid down the backstretch. 
Elliott decided to go by on the low side as Earnhardt slid along the outside wall, but the Chevy sud­denly came down the banking and Elliott made it past by less than a yard. 
Gant's car, which had been 
spewing smoke, went out with a 
blown engine on lap 349. 
Elliott had just passed Tim Rich­mond moments before the hood flew off Richmond's car on the back­stretch on lap 332, bringing out the 12th caution flag. And the winner was starting to pull away when oil on the track, apparently from Gant's engine, brought out the 13th and final yellow flag on lap 33 7. 
Added to the Sl million, Elliott also picked up first-place money of $53,725 from the total purse of $410,000. He now has an all-time auto racing record of S1,857,243 in earnings for the season. 
Geoff Bodine, who regained a lost lap late in the race, wound up a dis­tant third, followed a lap down by Neil Bonnett and Ron Bouchard. 
Long-time racing star AJ. Foyt, who was a rookie at the Darlington track, never was in contention, fal­ling off the lead lap in the early going and dropping out with an engine problem on lap 263. Pancho Carter, an Indy-car star and another Dar­lington rookie, suffered a mild case of heat exhaustion on the tropically humid day and was replaced in the car shortly after the halfway mark by Phil Parsons. 
Detroit cruises past Oakland, 14-3 
DETROIT -Chet Lemon hit two 
solo homers and singled in another 
run and Barbaro Garbey added a 
three-run double during a nine-run 
explosion in the eighth inning yes­
terday as the Detroit Tigers beat the 
Oakland A's 14-3. 
The Tigers broke the game open 
in the eighth as Garbey's pinch­
double and a two-run single by Kirk 
Gibson highlighted the outburst. 
Juan Berenguer, 4-3, allowed six 
hits, struck out nine and walked one 
in 7 1 /3 innings. 
Loser Chris Codiroli, 10-11, gave up four runs in the 3 1 /3 innings he worked for Oakland. 
White Sox 4, Blue Jays 
1 
TORONTO Harold Baines slugged a two-run home run and Ron Kittle added a solo shot to power the Chicago White Sox to a 4-1 victory over the Toronto Blue jays yesterday afternoon. 
Both Baines and Kittle hit their homers off rookie Steve Davis, 1-1, who was making his first major­league start for the Blue Jays. 
Britt Burns, 1 5-8, who has two of the Chicago wins over Toronto this season, allowed five hits in seven scoreless innings. Bob James took over at the start of the eighth. 
Red Sox 10, Twins 3 
MINNEAPOUS -Jim Rice and 
Tony Armas homered, highlighting a 
16-hit attack yesterday that Jed the 
Boston Red Sox over the Minnesota 
Twins 10-3. 
Rice, Wade Boggs and Bill Buck­
ner each had three hits. Boggs went 
3-for-6 and is now hitting .362. 
Rookie right-hander Mike 
Trujillo, 4-3, scattered nine hits for 
his second major-league victory as a 
starter. The Red Sox hammered 
Twins starter Frank Viola, 13-12. 
Viola failed to retire any of the 
four batters he faced in the third, 
when Boston made it 6-0. Buckner 
singled and Rice lined his 22nd 
homer. 
Yankees 5, Angels 3 
NEW YORK -Pinch-hitter Don Baylor and Don Mattingly homered consecutively in the seventh inning, breaking a 3-3 tie and giving the 

New York Yankees a 5-3 victory yes­
terday over the California Angels. 
The triumph, coupled with Toronto's 4-1 loss to Chicago, moved the Yankees within four games of the American I..cague East­leading Blue Jays. 
Baylor's homer came with one out and on the first pitch from reliever AI Holland, 0-1. Mattingly's 25th made a winner of Bob Shirley, 4-4, who relieved in the sixth inning. Brian Fisher pitched the final two in­nings for his 1Oth save. 
Mariners 1 0, Orioles 2 
BALTIMORE -Jack Perconte went 
5-for-6, Alvin Davis hit a three-run 
homer and Domingo Ramos had a 
three-run triple yesterday as the 
Seattle Mariners rapped 16 hits and 
routed the Baltimore Orioles 10-2. 
Matt Young went eight innings 
and gave up seven hits, including a 
solo home run by Mike Young, as he 
raised his record to 1 0-14 while 
notching only his second victory in 
11 road decisions this season. 
Dennis Martinez, 11-8, was 
shelled for eight hits during his 3 1/3 
innings. 

Rangers 5, Royals 3 
ARLINGTON, Texas -Oddibe 
McDowell tripled and singled and 
scored twice last night as the Texas 
Rangers completed a three-game 
sweep by beating the Kansas City 
Royals 5-3. 
The Royals remained 2% games 
behind first-place California in the 
American League West. California 
lost to New York 5-3 earlier in the 
day. 

Winner Mike Mason, 6-12, 
pitched seven Innings, giving up two 
runs on eight hits. Duane Henry 
pitched the last two innings for his 
first save. 
Danny Jackson, 12-9, gave up all 
five Texas runs and took the loss. 
Phillies 4, Dodgers 1 
LOS ANGEI.ES -Juan Samuel had 
three hits, scored twice and drove in 
a run while John Russell homered as 
the Philadelphia Phillies completed 
a four-game sweep of Los Angeles 
with a 4-1 victory over the Dodgers 
yesterday. 
It was the first time the Phillies 
had swept a four-game series from 
the Dodgers since July 16-18 in 
1955. 

John Denny, 9-11, yielded four hits over eight innings. Denny walked six batters and struck out seven. 
Jerry Reuss, 12-9, let up three runs 
in six innings and lost to the Phillies 
for the fifth straight time. 
Reds 3, Pirates 2 
CINCINNATI -Bo Diaz homered and Pete Rose and Dave Parker singled home runs in a three-run eighth inning yesterday that carried the Cincinnati Reds to a 3-2 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Rose's single off reliever Rob Scurry, 0-1, tied the game 2-2 and Parker followed with a single for the go-ahead run. Rose had two singles in four at-bats Sunday, leaving him six shy of breaking Ty Cobb's all­time mark of 4,191. 
Mario Soto, 11-15, allowed six hits in eight innings. Ted Power andJohn Franco finished, Franco getting two outs for his eighth save. 
Cubs 15, Braves 2 
CHICAGO -Davey Lopes belted a homer and a pair ofsingles and Keith Moreland had three hits and drove in four runs yesterday, leading the Chicago Cubs to a 15-2 victory over the Atlanta Braves. 
The Cubs, enjoying their biggest scoring total since 1980, were aided by three Atlanta errors and 11 walks as the Braves suffered their second loss after winning five straight under new manager Bobby Wine. They had 15 hits. 
Derek Botelho, 1-2, pitched a six­hit complete game for his first Na­tional League victory and Len Barker, 2-7, was tagged with the loss. 
Padres 5, Expos 1 
SAN DIEGO -Andy Hawkins and Lance McCullers combined on a three-hitter and Garry Templeton singled in two runs to help the San Diego Padres defeat the Montreal Expos 5-1 yesterday afternoon. 
Hawkins, 17-4, gave up three hits in 5 1/3 innings, walking two bat· ters. McCullers replaced him with two runners on, got Andre Dawson to ground into a double play and pitched hitless relief for his fifth save. 
Floyd Youmans, 1-2, gave up a run in the first on a single by Templeton, a wild pitch and a single by Graig Nettles. 
The Observer 


Several seniors camped out by the ACC last night to get first shot at football tickets today. First in line were, left to right, Dan Pacifico, Colleen Car­roll, Todd Christenson, Regina Grove, john 
The Observer/Paul ClfarciU 
Bereslka, Kathi Deegan, Mike Wiseneski and Kevin Walker. Kevin Herbert relates the "camping out" experience in his story at right. 
Martina Navratilova breezes past Italy's Sandra Cecchini in US Open 
NEW YORK-Defending women's champion Martina Navratilova made a cameo appearance yesterday to join five-time winner Jimmy Con­nors and No. 2 men's seed Ivan Lend! in the fourth round ofthe U.S. Open Tennis Championships. 
Navratilova dropped only 21 points as she breezed through Italy's Sandra Cecchini 6-0, 6-1. The match was over so fast that there was a question on how long she took. 
The official clock on the court said the match was 37 minutes long, but umpire Jim McKnight listed it as 27 minutes on his scorecard. A replay of the television tape, however, showed the official clock was correct. 
Connors, the only man to win America's premier tennis event on all three surfaces on which it has been played -grass, clay and hardcourt defeated Thierry Tulasne of France 7-5, 6-2, 6-2. The victory was his 75th, tying him with Vic Sexias for the most men's singles matches won in a career. 
''I'm happy to have tied it and to have won so many matches here," Connors said. "I didn't even know about it until I walked out there and played. I'm here to play and try to win the tournament." 
Lend!, who has reached the final in each ofthe last three years only to lose, crushed Horacio De La Pena of Argentina 6-1,6-1, 6-3. 
Also posting third-round victories Sunday on the hardcourts ofthe Na­tional Tennis Center were seventh­seededYannick Noah and his French Davis Cup teammate, Henri Leconte, No. 11 Sefan Edberg of Sweden, Switzerland's Heinz Gunthardt and two teen-agers, 18-year-old Jay Berger of Plantation, Fla., and 17· year-old Jaime Yzaga ofPeru. 
Joining Navratilova in the fourth 
round of the women's singles were 
No. 4 Pam Shriver, No. 6 Zina Gar­
rison, No.8 Manuela Maleeva ofBul­
garia, No. 11 Steffi Graf of West 
Germany, No. 13 Catarina Ilndqvist 
of Sweden and two Americans, 
Alycia Moulton and Kate Gompert. 
Noah ousted Vitas Gerulaitis 6-3, 
6-4, 6·3; Leconte defeated West Ger­
many's Hans Schwaier 6-2, 6-2; 6-1; 
Edberg stopped Brad Gilbert 4-6, 6­
4, 6-1, 6-4; Gunthardt outlasted Ar­
gentina's Martin Jaite 6-7, 3-6, 7-6, 
6-4, 6-1; Berger, an amateur, 
eliminated veteran Brian Teacher 4­
6, 7-6, 6-4, 7-6; and Yzaga, the 
French Open junior champion and 
the lone qualifier left in the tourna­
ment, stopped David Pate 6-3, 6-3, 
7-6. 

Lend!, quietly slipping through 
the draw while the spotlight has 
been on defending champion John 
McEnroe, Connors and Wimbledon 
Monday, September 2, 1985 -page 10 
Seniors camp out for best football tickets 
By KEVIN HERBERT For Wisneski, this is the oppor­Sporfs Writer tunity to avenge past poor seating. " I have always wanted to see our 
When a line begins to form over games from good seats," he said. "In twenty-one hours before the ticket my freshman year I was as far up in windows open, you would expect the endzone as possible. This is my the sale of Springsteen concert tick­chance at the fifty." ets or a bank-run to be in the making. 
Ofcourse, these early arrivals will Yesterday at 5:45pm., however, op­be relieved this morning. And thetimistic Notre Dame seniors began relievers, in turn, will be relieved. In forming the line to obtain tickets to all, eight shifts ofpeople buying tick­this season's home football games. 
ets for no less than thirty-five peopleMike Wisneski, Tom Gallagher will come and go before the ticketand Kevin Walker from Grace hall, windows open at 3 p.m. 
John Berestka of Carroll and Todd As for last night, the early arrivals Christenson from Pangborn arrived came equipped with sleeping bags, at Gate 3 of the ACC to assure that beverages, snacks and cards.

they will have midfield seating for this year's action. Irish tailback Allen Pinkett 
" Even after three disappointing stopped to talk to the crowd outside years we still have the hopeful of Gate 3 when he left the Tina aspirations that Gerry Faust will Turner Concert last night at about exceed his expectations" com­11 :30. He told the crowd, which had mented Walker. "With all of the grown to about 25 people, that they talent we have, this should be the would not be disapponted watching year." the Irish from the best seats in the 
Gallagher was a little more prag­house. matic about his motives. Ticket distribution will continue 
" Win or lose, it is always better to tomorrow for juniors, Wednesday watch a game from the fifty than for sophomores and graduate stu­from behind a goal-post." dents and Thursday for freshmen. 
Kenny Bernstein wins drag race preliminaries 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOUS -Funny Car racer Kenny Bernstein won the final preliminary to the U.S. Nationals drag races yesterday, beating Ed McCulloch of Sanger, Calif., to win the Big Bud Shootout bonus race at Indianapolis Raceway Park. 
The victory was worth $30,000. Bernstein, 40, of Dallas, Texas, qualified second fastest for today's 16-car Funny Car finals and could win an additional S40,000 by cap­turing that event. 
Bernstein won the Funny Car preliminary in 1983 and went on to win the national championship the following day. 
Bernstein, whose Budweiser King Ford Tempo was timed in 5.69, 5.69 and 5.70 seconds yesterday, is one of the favorites to win the Funny Car title even though he qualified be­hind Tom McEwen of Fountain Val­ley, Calif., during the preliminary phase of the 31st annual event. 
The current National Hot Rod As­sociation record holder for quarter­mile time and speed at 5.646 seconds and 260.11 mph, Bernstein has won five of nine Winston World Championship Series races this season and has been runner-up in two others. He can clinch the world title today. 

McEwen, whose qualifying time was a career best of 5.671 seconds and 258.17 mph, lost to Bernstein in the second round of the Big Bud Shootout, an eight-car race run by drivers who earned the greatest number of points in the nine races preceding the Nationals. 
The qualifying orders in the Top Fuel and Pro Stock division changed little during yesterday's runs. 
Joe Amato's Saturday time of 
5.508 seconds, 259.36 mph, held up for the No. 1 spot in Top Fuel and Bob Glidden of Whiteland, Ind., made his Thursday best of 7.576 seconds stand up as the quickest qualifying run in the Pro Stock divi­sion. 
The quickest run during yester­day's qualifying was a 5. 51 7 second, 
259.96 mph effort by Gary Ormsby of Roseville, Calif. The run was good enough for the No. 2 position ahead of defending champion Don Garlits ofOcala, Fla. 
Garlits, a 53-year-old veteran, recorded a best of 5.535 at a track record-setting speed of 262.39 mph. Garlits, the current world cham­pionship points leader, is bidding for an unprecedented seventh U.S. Na­tionals title. 
champion Boris Becker, said his lopsided victories are indicative of how well he has been playing. 
"I would have to say that I haven't faced any players (who) ... have the game to push me," he said. "I'm definitely playing my best this sum­mer, but I was playing awfully well at Forest Hills," when he won the Tournament of Champions in May, downing McEnroe in the final. 
The crowd in Louis Armstrong 

Stadium applauded loudly when 
Cecchini held serve to begin the 
second set. It was her lone moment 
to shine in the bright sunshine as 
Navratilova was devastating. 
Navratilova served only six times 

in the match -and was taken to 
deuce only once. But she broke Cec­. chini's service six times. 
It was Navratilova's easiest match 

as she has rounded into top form for 
the final week of this Grand Slam 
tournament. She has yet to lose a set 

and has dropped only six games in her first three matches. 
"It reinforces the fact I am hitting the ball well," Navratilova said ofher briefStadium Court appearance. "In 1983, when I won it (the women's singles title), only the final went more than one hour." 
Noah said he is beginning to feel comfortable on the DecoTurf II· court and with his game. 
"I'm pleased I have been improv­ing with every match," said the win­ner ofthe 1983 French Open. "I feel . very confident now and this has been my best match so far." 
In the fourth round, Noah will face Berger, who just began his sop­homore year at Clemson University and is playing in his second profes­sional tournament. He qualified for Boston, a clay court event, before losing in the first round to Sweden's Mikael Pernfors, a University of Georgia graduate who has captured the NCAA singles title the last two years. 
Ticket Distribution 
Seniors Today Juniors Tomorrow Sophomores Wednesday Freshmen Thursday 
Tickets will be distributed at ACC Gate 3 from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. each day. 
Students may present up to 4 applications and ID's. 


STUDENT ACTMTIES NIGHT 
Tuesday,Sept.3,1985 7:00-lO:OOp.m. Stepan Center 
Get involved! Come Find Out About The Various ClubsI Organizations on Campus 
Saint Mary's Activities Night Is Also Sept.3, from 8:00-10:00 p.m. 

~~~C3L~------------------------------------------M•o•n•d•a•y•,S•e•p•t•em
__b_e_r_z_,_l9•8•5•--P_a_g_e_l_l 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
--~­



Zeto 
ACROSS 1 Prolific author? 
5 It has Its day 10 Fore and­13 Briefly 
brilliant star 14 Disco dance 15 Tarts 17 Bit of news 18 "I cannot-
lie" 19 Med. school subj. 
20 Economic system 23 Timetable 
abbr. 24 Table scraps 25 Water mammal 26 Globules 28 Ocean: abbr. 30 Before 31 In re 32 Kettledrums 38 Henry Ford 
Innovation 41 Surgeon's tool 42 Environmental 
science: abbr. 43 Spring mo. 6 Ten-percenter 46 Literary 7 Fasteners 
collection 8 Give the eye 47 Swelling 9 Leonine 48 "I have a-" outburst 50 Minor prophet 10 To one side 53 Coal holder 11 Measurable 54 Result of 36A 12 Puzzling 58 "How sweet -I" problem 59 Disconcert 16 Cubic meter 60 Twin 21 Dawn goddess 62 Layer of 22 Actress Bergen 
tissue 23 Blind as ­63 Forty·-27 "-I say, 64 Divider's word not..." 65 Tunisian ruler 28 Paris priest 66 Crystal·llned 29 Lanky 
stone 32 Wise -owl 67 First place 33 Anatomical tissue 
DOWN 34 Elec. unit 1 Cuckoo 35 Pung 2 Stale 37 Rascal 3 Value too 38 Like some seas 
. highly 39 Put on the 4 Title slate 5 Not now 40 Verve 
i**********************************}
.. .. 
* .. * 
: St. Mary's Activity Night : : TUESDAV,SEPT.3 8-10pm :
* .. 
: * Angela Athletic Facility * : 
* 
..

* 
..


: Both SMC and ND clubs and organizations ~ 
* will be involved!!! : 
: :
* NO and SMC activities nights are on the same evening, ~ somakesureyougotobothlll * 
;: : 
23 

t**********************************l('l)s~~ss•~·~-~·~ss~~;scac.cts.~-~~~-;s·ss;~;ssss;~;ssss;!>fl> 
Friday's Solution 
DORAIART I SILALA
0 8 0 L L0 0 S E E L I S 
R I T A 8 0 T HE RS 0 ME MEANT"f'M ~-DE I GNS
,_,•.,.._
STRIIDE IOUEENIING CRANE P.RA E
RANG F 0 I S T J AKE ELK.CASTE ANES E AS YAC ES DE C I DE I-ARTS PEAK­
ALECTO·~~J,ISTAY 
MOTH~RLESS OHRE 
P L0 T EX I S T NA I L 
S ANS D I NES S I L L 
Kevin Walsh 


!l;l 1985 Un1versal Press 9-Z. 
Campus 

•7:00-9:15p.m.-Class of '87 2nd annual Super Scavenger Hunt. Fieldhouse Mall, 
Sponsored byjunior Class, U per team 
TV Tonight 
8:00p.m.  16  NBC Monday Night at the Movies  
:z:z  Kate and Allie  
34  Survival Special no. 501 "Ughts, Ac­ 
tion, Africa!"  
8:30p.m.  :z:z  Newhart  
46  Calvary Temple  
9:00p.m.  :z:z  Cagney and Lacey  
34  On Stage at Wolf Trap "Presentation  
Hall jazz Band."  
46  LeseaAiive  
!O:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
:z:z  22 Eyewitness News  
:Z8  Newswatch 28  

Get Involved! 
The Observer has positions open for evening layout work. Two hours a week. No experience is necessary. 
mb.e ~iglfts oftlttC!fastlt 
Men's Hair Styling at Its finest 

. minutes from campus 
~~ Welcome Back Stud~ts! 
' STUDENT SPECIAL 
$5 Haircut only 
277·1691 

$850 Haircut. Shampoo
272-0312 

Blowdrv 
offer ()nly applies to male patrons 
Hrt: Tuee, Wed: 8:»6:30 
a.633Tenaoe..._ Thur.Frt:l:»>:30 AcrOie11om Martin'• Sat: 8:01).2:30 
!0:30p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 1Z:30p.m. l:OOp.m. 2:00p.m. 

When fleas go unchecked 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Oven Braised BeefShortribs Chicken Pot Pie Cheese Ravioli Fish Sandwich 
34 Even the Heavens Weep: The West Virginia Mine Wars 
46 Church Growth International 16 Tonight Show Zl U.S. Open Highlights :Z8 ABC News Nlghtllne 46 Uve and Uvely :z:z CBS Late Movie: "Cry for Strangers" :Z8 Love Connection 
46 Praise the Lord 
16 Late Night with David Letterman 
16 Allin the Family 
:z:z Nightwatch 
46 Independent Network News 
Cash 
•
tn••• 

The Observer needs creative, dedicatedpeople to design ads, so ifyou're interested, call Mary Carol Creadon at 
283-3461. 
...on your artistic talent. 


43 Allow In 44 Chattered 
Idly 45 Bounce back 47 Superlative 
ending 49 Ore analysis 50 Bell city 
912/85 
51 Meditated 52 Pigment: var. 55 Tolled 56 Acting award 57 "-hard, but 
I am not afraid..." 61 Chaney 



---~·------------------------~-----.~---------w 
r 
t 
Monday, September 2, 1985-page 12
SRorts 
Notre Dame soccer team has toughest schedule ever in '85 
ByPHILWOLF which they could grow and develop he expects five or six ofthe first-year Assistant Sports Editor and be as good as they can be in four players to step directly into starting years," he says. "The first step in that roles. 
Under normal circumstances, the direction is giving them good com­"I couldn't be happier at this point last thing a coach would admit petition. with the contribution that (the new before his season starts is that he "After I had made these promises, players) appear to be making," would be happy ifhis team were to I had to go out and patch the Grace says. "Anytime you can bring finish with a .500 record. schedule together. Making the in a freshman to contribute, that's 
But these are not normal cir­schedule was easy because important, but when you can bring cumstances. everyone wants to beat the Irish. in six to challenge for a starting posi­
Notre Dame soccer coach Dennis Everyone wanted to play us." tion, you have to be happy." Grace, in only his second year as the So just how tough is the schedule? Grace says the veteran players head of the Irish program, has put Considering that eight of Notre have accepted the newcomers into together the toughest schedule in Dame's opponents this season were their ranks with open arms. Notre Dame soccer history. If his ranked in the national top 20 last "Most of the players who are con­team is able to win halfof its games, season, it is by far the toughest cerned about the overall success of he will have been lucky. But still he schedule the Irish ever have faced. the program are delighted," Grace says it is possible. In addition, the schedule features says. "When they took a step back 
"I have a feeling that if we are lOofthe 11 teamswhichwereinthe and said, 'What's best for Notre somewhere around a .500 season top 1 0 ofthe Mideast region at some Dame soccer?' they recognized that then a lot of people will call that point last seafon. The Irish will face those six have to play." successful," Grace says, but he adds Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Wisconsin­The six players that Grace refers that his players are not among that Madison, Michigan State, Indiana, to as the most promising rookies are group ofpeople. "I don't know ifthis Bowling Green and Marquette at freshmen Tom Gerlacher, John group, with their attitude, is going to home. They also will come up Guignon, Randy Morris, Kun be satisfied with just .500, and that against Evansville, Wisconsin-Green Roemer and Joe Sternberg and makes me a happy coach." Bay, Miami (Ohio) and Akron on the junior college transfer Bruce 
Given that the team, which was road. Grace has called these regional "Tiger" McCoun. 12-6-2last year, will be playing some games "crucial" for receiving a bid With these new players in the of the premier soccer teams in the to the NCAA post-season tourna­lineup, Grace has a wealth of ex­country, Grace has adjusted his ment. perience on the bench, giving his Th~ ObK-rver/Fik Photo goals for the season. He says he is not Even ifthe Irish do not make it to team the depth it will need to play a 
Stuart MacDonald, shown here in action against Louisz,ille last 
as concerned about winning a cer­the NCAA tournament, they will see full 90 minutes with the best in the 
year, and his teammates on the Notre Dame soccer team opened the 
tain number ofgames as he is that his some tournament action. Notre nation. The Irish also have moved 
1985 season with a 3-0 loss at Virginia yesterday. Phil Wolftakes a 
team plays as well as it can. Dame will play in the Wright State 
look at the young season and gives a brief description ofyester­"I just want to look back in Tournament and the Illinois State see SOCCER, page 8 day's game in his stories at left and below left. 
November when I have my Tournament on consecutive Thanksgiving dinner," Grace says, weekends in mid October. "and, without reservations, say that "We wanted to make sure that we my team played as well as it could got 22 games in the season," Grace 
Mary Jo Lambert moves into new 
play, my team reached its potential, explains, "and we wanted to make my team won as many games as it sure that we didn't miss a lot of could possibly win." classes. So the logical thing was to 
job as assistant athletic director 
Grace says that the upgrading of play two games in one weekend. Notre Dame's schedule this season is And if you're going to play two By KELLY PORTOLESE With twenty years of college pressive tennis slate, Lambert just one step in the process of games, you want to make sure that SaintMary's Sports Editor coaching and teaching behind her, should bring much to the Saint upgrading the Irish soccer program the team you are going to play also this will be Lambert's first collegiate · Mary's volleyball program in her to the point where it will be on a par plays two games." In this age of specialization in the administrative position. first year with the team. with the best in the nation. He says One look at Grace's freshman sponing world, coaches who are ex­"I'm ready to take all my ex­"I coach from a team concept," he wanted to be able to offer a recruits is enough to show that his perts in several sports are a dying perience and use it in an ad­she says. "I have a commitment to demanding schedule to highly bold scheduling has begun to pay breed. But Saint Mary's has just that ministrative sense," says Lambert, excellence. I demand a lot of myself recruited high school players, so off. The class of 1989 is sprinkled coach in Mary Jo Lamben, who was who boasts collegiate coaching ex­and am constantly going to clinics. that they would consider attending with all-state selections, all-region named Saint Mary's volleyball coach perience in not only volleyball but Therefore I also expect this from my Notre Dame. selections and even one all-America in January, and recently has been tennis, gymnastics, basketball and players. 
"We promised our recruits that player. In fact, the freshman class is named Assistant Director of Ath­track and field. "I'm excited. There "I love the strategy of the game 
we would give them a program in so strong this season that Grace says letics and Recreation at the College. are a lot of things that could happen and teaching players to be students here. I want to make (the Angela of the game. I enjoy seeing players Athletic Facility) a positive place to feeling good about themselves and come. We are planning some fun excelling. ln the collegiate level you 
Irish lose soccer opener to Virginia 
things, including some night have to be tough." programs to bring the students in. Lambert, whose volleyball teams This place needs to be used." have won championships at the
as Cavaliers outshoot them, 33-3 
regional and state levels, says herA native of the Northwest, Lam­husband, Notre Dame women's vol­
ByPHILWOLF goalkeeper Hugh Breslin, the Irish only three shots near the Virginia ben did the majority ofher coaching leyball coach Art Lambert, hasAssistant Sports Editor were unable to stay in the game with goal, but the Cavalier goalkeepers and teaching at Eastern Washington rouded out her knowledge of the
the Cavaliers, who are ranked third were not forced to make a single State College and Spokane Falls 
game.
The Notre Dame soccer team in the country. save in the contest. Community College. At Eastern she "I've learned a lot," she says. "We
opened its 1985 season yesterday Virginia also owned an 11-0 developed a national caliber gym­share a lot about the game. He's very with a 3-0 loss at the University of Breslin kept the game close by advantage over the Irish in corner­nastics team, while at Spokane she demanding. I am too, but in a dif­Virginia. making 12 saves on 33 shots from kick restarts. coached five different teams and was ferent way because we're in two dif­
Despite the decisive play ofjunior the Cavaliers. The Irish managec;l named Washington's volleyball
The Notre Dame midfield played ferent programs. I've learned a lot 
~--------~------------~ coach of the year in 1981. 
well, but the Irish were not able to about'strategy, tactics and the men­sustain any offensive threat. At Spokane, she founded the tal part ofthe game from him." 
The Cavaliers took the lead only entire women's athletic department Although volleyball is her favorite
Lyons Hall begins 
7:36 into the contest with a goal by ·and is credited with making Spokane spon to coach, Lamben says skiivg is 
Jay Del Carmen. The score remained the first college in the state of Was­her first love and she really misses at 1-0 for the rest ofthe first half. hington to receive full women's the mountains and the ocean of the
volleyball tournament 
scholarships. In addition, all of her West where she also sailed com­About eight minutes into the players at this community college petitively on the national level. 
ByJEFF CISSELL "The tournament hopes to en­
second period, Virginia went on to receive full scholarships 
Sports Writer courage more involvement bet­
Though South Bend does not offerstrengthened its lead. Jeff Gaffney at four-year schools. 
ween the Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
the geographic advantages she en­A new tradition is starting at community and local charity or­shot the ball past Breslin for a 2-0 "A lot of my players have also joys, Lambert says she has been very
lead at 53:32. gone into coaching and been veryNotre Dame with the First An­ganizations," Wroblewski said. 
impressed with the Saint Mary'sScott Platenburg ended the successful. So that is very reward­nual Lyons Hall Volleyball Teams will match up for a best­community as a whole. 
Cavalier scoring with only two ing," Lambert says. "My profession 
Tournament. of-three series to advance. 
minutes remaining in the contest. has been very good to me. "The warmth from the faculty and Registration will be tomorrow staff has been great," she said of herThe event, which will be held 
His shot beat Breslin at 87:50. 

and Wednesday from 4:45p.m. to "I've fought for women's scholar­first year teaching health and physi­from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Satur­6:45 p.m. in both the Nonh and The Irish· will meet George ships throughout the years. "I've cal education at the College. "I feel day, Sept. 7, will be a fundraiser South Dining Halls. Teams are to Mason, another top-20 team, tomor­also had a lot offun coaching. I think so welcome. I love the attitude here.
for the Logan Center for Hand­consist of six players, two of 

row at 3 p.m. on the Patriots' home I have a real talent to analyze skill They want to make the Saint Mary's which must be women. An entryicapped Children. 
and people. God gave me a gift to be student be better academically, ath­According to tournament or­fee ofsix dllars will be charged. 
field before returning to Notre 
Dame late tomorrow night. a teacher ·first. Everyone is an in­letically, and emotionally. They'reganizer Gretchen Wroblewski, Wroblewski said she hopes that dividual and you can't treat them the looking at the whole person andthe tourney will provide an op­the charity volleyball tourna­
The home openerfor the Irish will same. But I will .be fair with that's exciting." ponunity for students to become ment eventually will become a 
be Saturday, when Notre Dame plays everybody." Saint Mary's is just as excited to more involved in the com­fall event comparable to the 
host to the Panthers of Wisconsin­With all of her successful years of have a coach and administrator asmunity, while having fun at the spring's Bookstore Basketball Milwaukee at 2 p.m. on Alumni coaching experience and a 211-60 qualified and entusiastic as Mary Jo
same time. Tournament. 
Field. volleyball record and an equally im-Lambert. 




