------------~-----------------------------------------, 
'Hot' people -page 5 

VOL XX, NO. 3 7 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1S, 19HS 
Proposal to disband senate meets with outrage 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
Senior StaffReporter 
Five student leaders, Including Student Body President Bill Healy, proposed last night to disband the Student Senate in a letter which stated the senate had "longceased to he a legitimate voice of the student body." 
"Student Senate doesn't do anyth­ing. A bunch ofpeople debate things and they don't accomplish anyth­ing," said Student Activities Board Mananger Lee Broussard, one of the five signers. 
"It's time we start doing our job and addressing student concerns," said Student Body Vice President Duane lawrence, who also signed the letter. "The Student Senate is stopping us. It's apparent to everyone on campus." 
In addition to Healy, Broussard 
and lawrence, Hall Presidents' 
Council Chairman Kevin Howard 
and judicial Council Coordinator 
Karen Ingwersen signed the letter 
asking for the abolition of the senate 
by student referendum. 
The announcement, which was 
made after the senate meeting last 
night, was met with outrage by 
several senate members. 
"This Is the most reactionary, 
juvenile stunt student government 
has ever attempted as yet," said 
Senator Jim Hagan. 
"They refuse to even consider taking up any issue dealing with the administration. These so-called stu­dent leaders proposing this referen­dum didn't even have the guts to bring up any of this just one hour earlier at the senate meeting," said Ilagan. 
"Three of the people: who wanted 
to disband the senate were not elected," Senator KC. Culum said, referring to Howard, Broussard and Ingwersen. 
To abolish the senate, a proposal first would need 1 5 percent of the student body's signatures or a rwo­thirds vote by the Hall Presidents' Council, said Parliamentarian Eric 
Parzianello, who also is Student 
Body Treasurer. 
The senate also could vote by a 
rwo-thirds margin to begin the 
process of disbanding itself, Par­
zianello said. 
If one of the above requirements Is met, then the proposal would need approval ofone-halfof the stu­dent body or a rwo-thirds vote by the HPC or the senate for adoption, said Parzianello. 
The process of disbanding the senate potentially could take six weeks, lawrence said. 
Several of the signers said they believe the Campus Ufe Council, composed of students, rectors and administrators, is the proper forum for student concerns. The process for approving proposals, they said, would become more efficient if proposals went directly through the CLC. 
In the present student govern­
ment framework, the CLC must pass 
all senate resolutions before they go 
to the administration for final ap­proval. All of the student senators are members ofthe CLC, Lawrence said. "The CLC is going to be the voice of the students," he said. 
Junior Class President Jim Domagalski criticized the leaders' action. 
"Bill Healy has once again shown his total inability to lead," said Domagalski, who is a senate mem­ber. 
"His attempt to disband the Stu­dent Senate has nothing to do with anything but his inability to organize student opinion into legislation and programming," said Domagalski. 
Healy, who chairs the senate, had much criticism for the body. 
"The senate is associated with the word 'joke,' " said Healy. "By the time the Student Senate dealt with something like South Africa, It would be 30 years later." 
"It's proven itselflnei:Iective,'' said Healy. "The students have had enough of Student Senate members tinkering with student government toys." Healy said last night's decision 
was  a  long  time  in  coming.  
"Tonight's  meeting  was  the  last  
straw,'' he said.  
Lee F. Broussard ~ren I~ersen 


"The idea has been around for a long time," agreed Lawrence. 
Hagan said the action came be­cause Healy had received criticism from alumni at last weekend's Stu­
A NEW BEGINNING 
October 14, 1985 
Given that the Student Senate has long since ceased to be s legimate voice of the student body, we propose that this body be disbsnded. In order thst we get back to the students and serve you as we were elected to do, we call for s student initiative to begin this process. Should f~fteen percent of the student body support this initistive by signature with I. D. number, it will become a student referendum. The support of one-half of the student body for this referendum will eliminste the Student Senate and will sllow student government to serve the students without the encumbrance of this "debate forum." We ask for your support on this student initistive, which will be available for 
~nature tonight. Thank you for your continued ~­
Pe~~H~:~ wt?~~e ly ~~t_. 
HPC Chairmen Student B a~ President~ 
-tu-1f, ~.t r,'df.Ut ~CIJ(( 
SAB Msnager Judicial Coordinstor 
~~d"'"-­
Duane Lawrence 
Student Body Vice-President 
dent Leadership Conference. "(Healy) admitted being criticized over not confronting the 
Officials vow to find 
administration and having no power as student body president," Hagan said. 
"He is reacting to that criticism by 
leader of ship takeover 
turning on students because he fears the administration," said Hagan. 
Domagalski also criticized Healy. "(Healy) has constantly shown a lack of understanding and vision in terms of producing tangible results for the students who elected him," he said. 
"It's a slap in the face to students," Domagalski added. 
Domagalski said he admits the senate has many major flaws that need correcting. He said, however, 
see DISBAND, page 4 
WASHINGTON-Top Reagan ad­ministration law enforcement offi­cials insisted yesterday that a Palestinian guerrilla leader accused of masterminding the Italian cruise liner hijacking be brought to the United States to face trial. 
But the administration, rebuffed earlier by Italy in an attempt to have Mohammed Abu el Abbas arrested, made no headway in getting his provisional arrest in Yugoslavia, pending a formal extradition re­
quest. 

In fact, the Yugoslav news agency reported that Abbas, 38, was out of the country. The White House said it had no independent confirmation of that. 
CBS news, however, said its cor­respondent in Tunis, Tunisia, had spoken to Abbas by telc:phone in Yugoslavia shortly before 8 a.m. ­after the Palestinian leader was al­ready said to have left. 
CBS quoted Abbas as saying that Yugoslav authorities had told l)im he could stay as long as he wanted. The nerwork did not say how its cor­respondent knew that the man to whom he spoke was Abbas. 
The State Department said the United States was asking Yugoslavia for confirmation that Abbas had left the country. 
The statement also said: "We have not yet received a response from the Yugoslav government to our request that Abbas be provisionally arrested pending a formal extradition re-
see HUNT, page 4 


Educator to address importance of testing 
By BOB MUSSELMAN 
AssistantNews Editor 
Stanley Kaplan, educator and founder of test preparation centers throughout the United States and Canada, will speak today at Notre Dame about standardized tests and testing. 
Kaplan's presentations, at 4:30 
p.m. in the Lafortune Little Theater and at 6:15 p.m. in the Library Auditorium, are being sponsored by the Notre Dame Preprofessional Society, Alpha Epsilon Delta, and the South Bend Kaplan center. 
The early program, which will concern the national medical boards and their relation to residencies, will be directed by University of Indiana medical students who study in Hag­gar Hall. 
professional society, said his group asked its advisor, Fatherjoseph Wal­ter, "to get somebody in here to talk on the role oftesting." Walter, chair­man of the department ofpreprofes­sional studies, contacted Kaplan. 
"Who could be more fitting than Stanley Kaplan to talk about tes­ting?" Bevilacqua said. 
Kaplan haS been associated with 
education since 1938, according to 
promotional literature. He began 
tutoring in high school and con­
tinued the technique of one-on-one 
instruction in college. 

During the 1950s, Kaplan developed courses which rein­forced skills tested in the Scholastic Aptitude Test, then proceeded to develop preparation courses for dental, medical, law and other graduate programs. 
He currently operates more than 120 test.preparation centers throug­hout the continent. 
The South Bend center, at 1717 
see TESTS, page 4 

Need a lift? 
As the days draw closer to break, students like those pictured above look toward the ride board at LaFortune Center with the hope someone else will 
At 6:1 5, Kaplan will discuss "The  
Role of Standardized Testing in the  
be going their way. Some are lucky andfind a ride home, whtle others simply find more people looking for drivers.  Admissions Process," with premed, prelaw and any other students preparing for admission tests. Tony Bevilacqua, president of the  


I 
-----~--------~--­
r The Observer Tuesday, October 15, 1985 -page 2 
I 

In Brief 
President Jose Napoleon Duarte. whose oldest daughter was kidnapped a month ago, said yesterday he sent his other daughters and grandchildren to the United States after telephoned threats were made to kidnap another ofhis relatives. An American plane left Ilopango military air base yesterday carrying what sources said were 1 5 to 18 people. "The question of the trip that my children and grandchildren are taking today is because I received more threats of another kidnapping, and I'm taking the precautions to protect my children and my grandchildren, and the men of the family are all staying with me," said Duarte, president of El Salvador and graduate ofNotre Dame. -AP 
Condemned murderer William Vandiver had lunch and talked with his wife, Mariano, yesterday, less than two days before his scheduled execution for the murder of her father, authorities said. Prison officials refused to release details about the meeting, which was granted at Vandiver's request. Vandiver has asked for pizza for his final meal this evening, a prison official said. T. Edward Page, a Lake County, Ind. courtcommissioner, said Vandiver had given up hope ofavoiding the death penaltyand wanted to spare his wife a lengthy prison term. -AP 
The richest of the rich in America is worth $2.8 billion, while the poorest of the rich checks in at a mere S150 mil­lion. But who's counting? Forbes magazine, that's who, and its 1985 list of the nation's 400 richest people is topped by Sam Moore Wal­ton ofBentonville, Ark., who has made S2.8 billion through his Wal­Mart discount stores. The average net worth of the 400 is 5335 million. There are 14 billionaires. Only 165 built their foctunes wit­hout significant inheritances. At least eight did not finish high school. Most ofthe rich are not very famous. -AP 
Of Interest 
Snite Museum's Noontalk will feature Brooks Joyner, director of the Art Center in South Bend, who will speak on the "George Rickey in South Bend" exhibition. The talk will be from 
12:10 to 12:55 this afternoon in the O'Shaughnessy Gallery West.­
The Observer 

The O'Hare bus trip deadline has been ex­tended to Thursday by the Student Activities Board. The cost will be $10 and buses will leave from the Main Circle on Oct. 18 at 6 p.m. and Oct. 19 at 6 p.m. Signups are at the SAB Record Store. 
The Notre Dame Pre-Law Society is spon­soring an informal Information Day tomorrow from 11 a.m. until 3 
p.m. in the Stepan Center. Representatives from more than 100 law schools will be present to answer questions from students interested in applying to law school. This event is open to all area college stu­dents considering law school, and is free ofcharge. -The Observer 
Rally Against Starvation is sponsoring a discus­sion by Montumbo Mpayna, from Zaire, Africa. He is presently with Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute and has done extensive research concerning African economic problems. He will address the African crisis in a discussion at 7 tonight in the Center for Social Concerns Multi-Purpose Room.-The Observer 
The Notre Dame chapterofPaxChristiwillmeet today at noon at the Center for Social Concerns. Members are asked 
to bring a brown bag lunch. -The Observer 
Weather 

Don't bother studying for those midterms. There aren't too many days left with weather like today's, sq get out and enjoy it. Afterall, there will be plenty ofdays to study coming up soon. A high of 60-65 is expected today and a low of 40-45 tonight. Mostly sunny skies and warmer temperatures are expected tomorrow with the high reaching 65-70. -AP 
The Observer 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observeris published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( S20 per 11(0­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 

Design Editor.............................. Tom Small Design Assistant.............. TracySchindele Typesetters ...................... Suzanne Hammer 
Becky Gunderman Typist .......................................... Colleen Foy News Editor............................. Scott Bearby Copy Editor...................... Mark Pankowski Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Scheuermann Viewpoint Copy Editor..........Sue Dunbar Viewpoint Layout.................... Miriam Hill Features Copy Editor...............Tim Adams Fealures Layout...................... lUten Webb ND Day Editor......................... Doug Hasler SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Ad Design .................... Catherine Ramsden 
Sarah Wolohan Photographer..................... Hector Mareno 
~-·-~-~· 
[

liJ 
Americans touring other lands face real possibility of hostile treatment 

The release of the luxury liner Achille Lauro brought to an end to yet another act ofterrorism in a long string affecting American citizens while travelling abroad this 
year. 

Recent hijacking victims have been lucky in a sense. No crazed terrorists have opened fire randomly. In­stead, the few killed seem to have been chosencarefully after a search of passports by hijackers. American tourists seem to be susceptible if Leon Klinghoffer is any indication. Klinghoffer, an 69-year old stroke vic­tims confined to a wheel chair, was shot and thrown into the sea by attackers. 
An article in yesterday's Chicago Tribune told of an American couple on the ship who concealed their U.S. passports and passed themselves off as Austrian citizens, producing identification issued by the Austrian govern­ment. Donald Saire was a United Nations diplomat based in Austria. His wife hid their passports, fearing her husband would be the first killed. 
Last summer Robert Stet­"We don't have any juris­ham, a Marine leaving for a diction over students while vacation was the onlf victim they're travelling," she said. of the hijacking attack of a "They're on their own when plane leaving Greece. they do that, although most 
According to a Chicago stay in West Europe." area couple, the hijackers Should Americans be aboard the Achilles Lauro wary of travel, and is this a announced they were Pales­legitimate concern? On one tinians, and directed hand, they seem to be remarks to passengers such singled out when terrorist as "America no good. acts occur. On the other Reagan no good." hand, in spite ofrecent well­
What can facts such as publicized events, statistics­these mean about the image wise, travel still remains of the United States abroad? relatively safe in most com-Obviously, hijackers are not monly toured areas. rational about their hatred. Events such as the Achille But when American citizens Lauro can can have two 
have to think twice before r-'fAR( W£tf1HOLT 
travelling to foreign countries, American foreign policy may need closer ex­amination. 
What about the consequences of such acts on American travel? Overseas businessmen have always enjoyed American tourists and the money they can pour into a country's ailing economy. However, this contribution can come to a grinding halt if the present state ofevents continues. 
Students in foreign studies programs may also think twice about some of their travel this semester. But ac­cording to Notre Dame Foreign Studies Director Isabel Charles, students may be "more and more realizing that these are isolated incidents possible anywhere in the world today." 
"The result (ofsuch attempts) is more security rather than less," she continued. 
Charles said that Notre Dame students travelling abroad are instructed to keep updated about possible trouble spots, and to avoid those areas. Students check 
TOMORROW 
100 Law School Reps. Descend upon Notre Dame 
applications. 
Informal discussion 
LSAT Information 
Wed. Oct.16 11 am-3pm 
Stepan Center 
The Law Caravan 


OVER A CENTURY OF EXCELLENCE AND SUCCESS 
-Alumni are l~cated in 46 different states and are active in every aspect of t~e judiciary, legal practice and teaching, government and business. 
-Valparaiso has consistently experienced at least a 91~ placement rate of graduates within six months of passing the bar of the graduates'choice. 
-The ovetall bar passage rate has been over 904 for the past several years. For example, the state rate for che july, 1985 Indiana Bar was 81.4~, with 
Valparaiso students posting  a  rate of  92.3~.  
The commi tm,I'L t to the students construction of a totally new will be ready next fall.  is law  manifes ted facility,  in the which  
Located 40 miles west of South Bend and 45 miles southeast of Chicago. 


Valparaiso University School of Law Valparaiso, IN 46383 (219) 464-5441 or 5436 
See us at The Law Caravan Wed. 11 am-3 pm Stepqn Center 

Theresa A. Guarino 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
with the director of. the particular program before travelling and are asked to leave an itinerary with the director. 
"One thing we're very careful about is being sure we get responsible carriers to book flights on," Charles said. 
At Saint Mary's Ireland and Rome programs, directors try and encourage students to "use common sense," said Ellyn Bussing-Pugh counselor of the Ireland program. 
10-15' meanings to Americans, if something can be gained from that and other such incidents. 
Ronald Reagan can fume, and threaten international terrorists with retaliation all he wants. But until the ad­ministration starts to deal with what is behind such acts, threats ofrevenge will not serve to deter terrorists who are beyond reasoning anyway. 
Secondly, while the government needs to look into the causes of hijackers' actions, Americans cannot be fearful of leaving the country because of them. When that happens, we will know that American esteem and confidence has hit an all-time low at home and abroad. 
Common sense is the precaution to be considered these days for American citizens travelling overseas. But in this case, simple prevention will not be the best cure. Examining the symptoms of the epidemic can only serve to stop the disease from further spreading. 
L,_----------------------------------~~---­
The Observer Tuesday, October 15, 1985 -page 3 
"Whistle Stop" highlights Board of Governance talks 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
News Staff 
Security precautions recently taken were among the topics dis­cusseJ at the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting last night. 
"I couldn't believe it, but a lot of students were getting mace and flashlights in their care packages from home," said Regina Hall Pre!>ident Mary Flynn, speaking about security concerns. 
To allay those concerns, Representative Ann Conte described "Whistle Stop," a program instituted as a safety precaution for the Saint Mary's community. 
She said a letter was sent to Saint Mary's students detailing the purpose for the sale of whistles, which are meant to scare away attackers and attract attention when blown. 
"Security on both campuses has been told about the program," said Conte. "But we do stress that the possession of a whistle does not guarantee your safety." 
Those int&:rested in purchasing the $1 whistles can contact their resident assistants, Conte said. 
Another topic raised at the meeting was the benefit for Notre Dame student Kevin Hur­ley. 
Although the original idea for a benefit dance was not employed, Saint Mary's Campus Ministry has donated SSOO to the trust fund Hurley's parents have es­tablished. 
In other business, jeanne Hel­ler, vice president of student affairs, said those at the meeting should continue their efforts in collecting for the United Way. 
The survey results from the possible change in library hours were announced, with only 39 percent of the campus respond­ing. 
"Until we get at least a 50 per­cent response from the students, we can't draw up any type of proposal, so we're urging those who wish to see a change in the library hours to return their sur­veys," Student Body President Anne Marie Kollman said. 
Saint Mary's governing body adds eight members in annual selection 
By CHRIS SKORCZ The new members ofthe Board of vice president for College relations. SeniorStaffReporter Regents include Paula Lawton O'Flynn, like Cushwa and Fahey, Bevington, a 1958 Saint Mary's has served previously on the board. Eight new members will join Saint graduate now serving as vice presi­
Mary's Board of Regents Oct. 24 dent for community relations at Ser­Slattery, a graduate of the Univer­when the College's governing body vidyne, Inc. in Atlanta. sity of San Diego, has been director convenes for its first meeting of Margaret Hall Cushwa, a 1930 of the associates program for the 1985-86, said William Hickey, acting graduate of the College, also has Sisters of the Holy Cross for the past 
president. been named to the board. Cushwa five years. The elections to the 30-member and her husband have been Turgi, assistant director of
board are based upon nominations longtime benefactors ofSaint Mary's Campus Ministry and coordinator of
sent to a separate committee of the and the Cushwa-Leighton Ubrary Social Ministries at Saint Mary's,
board designated to select the new bears their name. 
graduated from the College in 1969. 

members annually. Oliva Maria Espin, coordinator of There are no specific criteria for special projects for the International The student representative to theelection to the board, Hickey said, Student Office at Boston University, board is Anne McCarthy, a senioralthough he quipped that "board also will begin her first term on the English literature major from Ash­members at any institution usually board. 
tubula, Ohio. 

have one of the three W's: wealth, The sole male member elected to wisdom, or work." the board this year is joseph Fahey member elected a
Each is to 

"On a more serious note, our Jr., a Notre Dame graduate who has three-year term and may serve no nominations are people who have had four daughters graduate from more than six consecutive years, al­the concerns of the College at Saint Mary's. Fahey is a financial con­
though he or she may be reelected heart," said Hickey. sultant from Stamford, Conn. 
to the board after a one-year ab­"The board is like the stock­Representing the Sisters of the 
sence, Hickey said. holders of a corporation who are Holy Cross are Sister Basil Anthony responsible for making all policy O'Fiynn, Sister Rita Slattery, and Ten of the 30 board members decisions for the College. 'Ibese Sister Mary Turgi. must be Sisters of the Holy Cross, decisions include such policies as O'Flynn, who has served the Col­Hickey said. They are selected the budget, the curriculum, etc.," he lege in various capacities since directly by the General Council of said. 1956, is currently the assistant to the the Sistersofthe Holy Cross, he said. 
Senior named as member of Regents 

By ALEX PELTZER 
StaffReporter 
While many Saint Mary's students will be relaxing during their week­long October break, Anne McCarthy will be busy making their opinions known. 
McCarthy, the student regent on the College's Board of Regents, will be attending the board's three-day meeting beginning Oct. 24. 

"My main concern is voicing stu­dent opinion on decisions made and making sure they take students into consideration," McCarthy said. 
McCarthy, a full voting member on all issues addressed by the board, has several responsibilities that al­low her to accomplish this, she said. 
Among those responsibilities in­clude orienting the new regents to student life and government and sit­ting on the committee for student life. 
McCarthy is confident she will have an impact on decisions made by the board, she said. 

"The regents have an open ear for the students," McCarthy said. "Student government does have a large role in administrative deci­sions at Saint Mary's." 
McCarthy, who sees her position as a "student representative bet­ween the body of students and the administration's executive board," said she expects to be Involved in several issues at the October meeting, Those issues, she said, in­clude the sexuality survey taken last year and the College's financial mat­ters. 
To become a board member, McCarthy and approximately 15 ot­her students wrote Sister Karol jack-· owski, dean ofstudent affairs, telling her why they believed McCarthy 

was well qualified, she said. From there the letters went to
HOW FARWILLYOURTALENT TAKE YOU? 
john Duggan, then president ofSaint Apply ti)r thl? TIME College Achievement Awards and find $1,000-$5,000 and profiled in a special promotional section Mary's, who passed them on to the out. TIME Maga1illl? is searching tiJr 100 college juniors who in TIME. Eighty finalists will receive certificates of merit. All Sisters of the Holy Cross, where the 
have di~tingui~hl?d th~?msclves by their excellence. in academ­100 students will be given first consideration for internships final decision was made, McCarthy ic~ and. morl? importantly. exceptional achievement outside with participating corporations, some of which are listed said. 
Although McCarthy is president

the cla~sroom. 0 The top twenty winners will be awarded below. 0 Details at your dean's office or call 1-800-523-5948. 
of the senior class, she said being in­Time lnr. • The American Expre" Travel Rclatcu Services Company. lnr.· Foru Di' ision ·U.S. Navy Ortker Program 
volved in student government was not a requirement for the position. "They were looking for someone 
who was experienced In working with the problems with the ad­ministration and students." she said. 
TIME 
r 
r The Observer Tuesday, October 15, 1985 -page 4 
Three senators walk out in protest 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
Senior StaffReporter 
In what could have been one of the Student Senate's final meetings, three senate members walked out destroying the quorum and ending the meeting. 
The quorum, which is a sufficient number ofsenate members present, is needed to approve any senate resolution. 
The senate had been debating a 
proposal by Student Body President r Bill Healy to take a referendum on r students' views regarding 
r 
divestiture in South Africa. 
r 
When Healy was reminded by
r 
Kevin Howard, Hall Presidents' 
r ~ 
Council chairman, that he didn't need the senate's approval to spon­
r 
sor the referendum, Healy ended
r 
debate on the matter and told the r senate,"I will bring the referendum r to the student body." t According to parliamentary r procedure of the senate, however, 
Healy could not end the debate and ,.f it began again. 
At this point Howard, Judicial Council Coordinator Karen Ingwer­sen and Student Activities Board Manager Lee Broussard walked out. 
r 
"I think it's awesome," said Healy, referring to the walkout. He added he was glad to see some action taken. 
Earlier in the meeting, the senate had electedStudent Body Vice Presi­dent Duane Lawrence chairman ofa committee that will investigate a restructuring of student govern­ment. 
Lawrence was nominated by Healy, igniting an argument with Junior Class President Jim Domagalski and Senator K.C. Culum. 
"It cannot be Bill Healy's restruc­turing committee. It should be the Student Senate's," said Domagalski. 
Culum added, "Until we see the type of committee I don't think we should select a chairman." 
Healy then told the senate that all committee members had to be ap­proved by the senate as well as the committee's future actions. 
Earlier in the meeting, senate members had reported on what they learned during last weekend's Stu­dent Leadership Conference. 
"I got a lot more out of the weekend than I thought I would," said Ingwersen. 
"I learned to set realistic goals. Leadership is not just a position but making people believe you can do something," she said. 
Many problems plaguing the cur­rent student government discussed with past student leaders during the 
leadership  meetings,  Sophomore  
Class  Vice  President  Laurie  Bink  
said.  
"Student  relationships with  the  

administration aren't where they should be," Bink said. "Some mutual respect would go a long way." 
"One voice needs to come out of student government," said Brous­sard, adding, "We have too many right now." 
"Maybe we have to redefine our goals to gain the student's respect," said Senior Class President John Spatz. 
"If you're going. to be a leader you've got to lead and get things done," said Howard. "It reminds the administration that we are still here." 
Parliamentarian Eric Parzianello said arguing with the administration is not showing disrespect but is a good way to cause change. 
"We can't be complacent with the administration," he said. 


The ~n/Patry Schneider
Time travellers 
Therese Ryan (left) and Mary Frances Wilkin took a walk through history yesterday as part ofSaint Mary's Founders' Day activities. The exhibit, which features a historical view ofthe Col­lege, is on display at the Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
Disband 
continuedfrompage 1 
"It is the only forum that offers stu­dents a say in what happens at Notre 
Dame. 
"I only hope that one ofAmerica's 
most intellectual student bodies will 
look at the compulsiveness of 
Healy's decision and the potential 
for improvement In the Student 
Senate and work with those of us 
who continue to believe that our ef­
forts in working with students can 
improve Notre Dame." 

Senator K.C. Culum also strongly 
disagreed with Healy. "I question 
the prerogatives of the people who 
signed the letter," he said. "Who is 
the legitamate voice of the student body?" 
Culum said he believed better or­ganization on leadership's part would make the senate more ef­
fective. "I think Student Senate has the people who could make it effective," he said. Both Healy and Lawrence said the action would be in students' best in­terest. 
"We have to start leading the stu­dents and meeting their needs," said Lawrence. 
Added Healy, "It might look bad but it's the best thing." 

dynamic speaker and a very learned man." 
Walter called Kaplan a "great entreprenuer" who "has done a lot for education." He said Kaplan will discuss "the importance of prepar­ing for standardized exams in general." 
Kaplan's preparation program is unnecessary for students who are well prepared and self confident, Walter said, but for others it's a "perfect review." 
Walter said the program also gives confidence to students who are ap­prehensive about standardized ex­ams. 
As Walter said he tells his students, "It's here, it's available if you feel you need it for review or selfconfidence." 
Robert Waddick, assistant dean of arts and letters and advisor to the prelaw society, said he does not advise students to invest in the relatively expensive test prepara­tion programs. 
The Kaplan Law School Admission Test preparation, for example, costs S400. 
The Unexamined Life is not Worth Living 
Will speak on 

"The Role ofStandardized Testing in the Admissions process, 
When: 
Tuesday, Oct. 15 at 6:15pm 
Where: 
/ Library Auditorium University of Notre Dame 
.. 
I / 
I 

All students and faculty invited. Open to the public. 
Tests 
continuedfrompage 1 
South Bend Ave., offers students classroom and supplemental material, according to Katie Shaugh­nessy, manager of the center. 
The classroom materials, Shaugh­nessy said, make students aware of what the tests are like, while the sup­plemental information allows stu­dents to concentrate on weak areas. 
Shaughnessy said the center 
Hunt 
continued from page 1 
quest from the United States." 
"We've not had success in Yugos­
lavia at this moment, although 
discussions have continued," FBI 
Director William Webster ack­
nowledged. 
"If, in fact, he's gone to another 
country, we'll continue to pursue 
our rights through Interpol and ot­annually serves 150 to 200 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's premed stu­dents and 60 to 80 law school hope­fuls, plus students preparing for the GMAT and the GRE. 
"It's impossible to make guaran­tees (for success)," she said, "but we have consistently found that for the students who work hard on the sup­plemental materials, their score is a function ofthat effort." 
Bevilacqua said Kaplan's talks will not concern the Kaplan centers. He said Kaplan is a "really outgoing 
her organizations to enforce our 
criminal laws, which are entitled to 
respect by friendly nations el­
sewhere," he said. 

Abbas, also known as Abul Abbas, is close to Palestine Liberation Or­ganization Chairman Yasser Arafat and heads a wing of the Palestine Liberation Front, one of the most violent factions i.n the PLO. He has denied involvement in the hijacking, in which an American, Leon Klin­.ghoffer, 69, of New York City, was 
killed. 

MakeksnaW)! 
~-··-­
.. 

•••••• r1,
CAR RENTAL 
Snappy Car Rental offers you Unlimited Miles Low Daily Rental Rates $26.95-29.95 
............. ....w.,.... 

Lincoln Town Cars Chrysler Fifth Avenues South Bend 
INDIANA 

Ford L TD's/Tempos (219)277-6600 
_....,...• 

Chevy Citations Fort Wayne
.....~·· 

(219)436-6666 

Indianapolis (317)845-9100 
Indianapolis 

Nationwide Reservations 1-800-321-7159 (317)247-0333 


SaintMary's College t!i GRIPE NIGHT Tuesday, October. 15th 
7-9 p.Dl. 
Call with Questions, Comments, Complaints, 
one ofthe following numbers:  
284-2050  284-2061  
284-2051  284-2062  
284-2052  284-2069  



-~l 



~i~~~_()__i_Il___t________________
ru-es-day-,0-c-tob-er-15-,1-98-5--pa-ge-5 
E.B. White leaves his legacy in his written words 
I don't remember exactly when I had my first introduction to E. B. White, but I'm almost certain it occurred before I was able to read. 

johnHuebl 
guest column 
"The Trumpet of the Swan," a classic story about a swan named Louis who is born wit­hout a voice, was read to me and my siblings by my mother, who always had a sense for great books. I later read "Charlotte's Web" and "Stuart Little" on my own, and then, on entering junior high, I decided I had out­grown E.B. White. 
What I didn't realize was that White is con­sidered one of the most talented and versatile writers in American history. 
White's love for writing developed early In his life. He kept a serious journal as a boy, and as a teenager he published a series of poems, essays, and short stories in his high school newspaper. After graduating In 1921 from Cornellllnlversity, where he served as editor­in-chief of the student newspaper, White spent a few years traveling and working at odd jobs before joining the New Yorker full-time in 1927. 
White soon became the New Yorker's most important and influential writer, contributing serious essays and humorous articles in addi­tion to his regular introductory and editorial sections. 

Even when his prolific career had taken him elsewhere, White maintained a close relation­ship with this magazine and continued to con­tribute to it for over 50 years. His career culminated with a series of prestigious awards. including the Pulitzer Prize in 1978. 
I rediscovered White when I entered col­lege and picked up a small, thin handbook titled "The Elements ofStyle," known to many college students as "Strunk and White." It sits on a shelf next to two other books to which I refer whenever I write a paper: a dictionary and a thesaurus. 
White's pithy, 85-page book is written in the same concise style that it preaches to the reader. It contains a long list of one-line in­structions which read something like the ten commandments: 
Be clear. 
Do not overwrite. 
Do not overstate. 
Omit needless words. 
Revise and rewrite. 

The list goes on. A brief explanation and usually an example follow each command. "The Elements of Style" is the product of White's revision of the first edition, com­monly referred to as "the little book," published by his former English professor at Cornell. White's revised edition has become state of the art among books of English and composition and style, and it probably will be a long time before anyone suggests doing a second revision. This book would be difficult 
White's command of the structural and 
stylistic aspects of the English language 
marked him as a great craftsman. It was his 
humanity, however, that made him famous. 
It is for his humanity that he will be remem­
bered. His novels and essays emanate a love of 
the world and all of its creatures, great and 
small. Common themes were his hatred of 
war, his love for animals and especially his 
love for young people. 
In an essay titled "A Slight Sound at Evening," White reflects on Thoreau's "Walden," and offers some advice to both uni­versities and students: Ifourcollegesand universities were alert, they would present a cheap pocket edition of the book to every senior upon graduating, along with his sheepskin, or instead ofit. Received at such a juncture, the book is like an invitation to life's dance, assuring the troubled recipient that no matter whatbefalls him in tbe way of success orfailure he will always be welcome at the party -that the music is played for bim,too, if be will but listen and move his feet. 
Coming from such a phenomenally­successful man, these words of advice offer hope and inspiration to all students worried about their future. I, a senior whose real major (who am I trying to kid?) remains undeclared, read "A Slight Sound at Evening" for a class last week, and was floored by it. 
On arriving in class the next morning, 1was told E.B. White had died the night before. 
the team did not play with the class or inten­its coach and team. Coach Grace, wake up and

Grace must understand 

sity of a scholarship team. realize that it is only performance that counts 
• Hunter was an individual who was totally in life. 

only performing counts 

committed to the University. He never took 
Captainjames Stein, USN

Dear h'dllor: the credit for the team's successes -even South Drange,N] 
Since my graduation from Notre Dame four when he deserved it. He worked long hours years ago, I have attempted to keep up with for the soccer program, for the Bengal Bouts the news on the varsity soccer team. I have and as the best instructor on campus. And yet 
become very disturbed on many occasions the soccer program rose to midwest 

Hesburgh's apartheid
recently by some of the comments that have prominence and even achieved a national 
come from the head coach, Dennis Grace, ranking after the stunning upset of St. Louis. views insult students concerning this team and teams of the past No excuses, just performance. coached by my friend, Rich Hunter, and 1 • Hunter was and is the best friend a Soccer Dear Editor: would like to make the following points: player could have at Notre Dame. On and off We were disappointed that even the closing 
the field, he was a great guy and we enjoyed statement of Father Hesburgh's speech last • All teams coached by Hunter were very playing soccer for him. The lessons we Friday did not seem to address the issue of 
competitive. He never skirted any contest and learned about soccer and life in general will apartheid and the Notre Dame investments tried to play the very best competition not be forgotten. 
that support that system. As rare as politicalavailable. Notre Dame played Indiana in just It is not that I or any of my teammates wish movements on this campus are, an oppor­
our second season; St. Louis in the third the present coach or team bad luck or ill will, tunity like Friday's rally should not have been season and consistently played such great but when we read in the paper about Grace wasted on the rhetoric and name-dropping teams as Ohio State, Dayton, Xavier, Western 
"building soccer," or about how he has so that could only serve to divert people's atten­Michigan and Purdue. little to work with, it makes us mad. We know, tion from the matter at hand. Although we 
• Notre Dame was a consistent winner in the however, that Rich Hunter left Notre Dame were glad to hear of a Notre Dame alumnus' years Hunter coached. No excuses, no alibis. with a solid team and with many solid building involvement in the 1985 peace prize, the Just a hard-nosed brand of soccer that ac­blocks to work with: the beautiful field, the hundreds in attendance outside the golden 
hieved results. Hunter never had a scholarship bleachers, the camps and a record ofachieve­dome on Friday were there to protest and to give out either, but that did not mean that ment that would make any university proud of show solidarity with the plight of the black 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
OKAY, /JR. PAN, B£-7H&Y'RE TRYING EVEKI7HIN6:
80YBCOf16RS fX)N/ OMY, THAT'S
51()£.5 GUM /JI5CA5C. MINOX/lJIL-, CONIJITIONt/<S,
81lL/J­5l£M 7D 8CAEJI£ 7D BESIP85 ABOlfTIT.
/A/HilTfl.}£ ARE 7HE3 NaAJ HAIR 7TY/.£S. MANYARe
NE55, HANI?I.E THINNING HAIR.. HAIRL055 7HtR&'S 
8/GOIIU OIIWRaJ flC6ROIAJIN6 7HE 8CARIJ5 OF
MARK. THEY THOU6ffT 7Het'IJ ANVGUM 'XJRTOF
TA/..XJN6ABOUT 71-I&IR Y()(JTH. TH15/5N(JTA
813 'fO(JNG FOR&VE3R . f)JseAst.. AWLi. 
THE$& /JAYS" I \ GeN&RAT/ON 7HAT'5AGIN6 I \ I 
Editorial Board 


The Observer ' 
Editor-in-Chief ...................... ...... Sarah E. Hamihon
P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr 
The Observer ts the tndependent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough 
Notre Dame du Lac and Satnt Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino 
admtntstratton of etther tnstttutton. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
Stble Unstgned edttooals represent the optnton of a maJority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor.... . . ............................... Mary Healy 
ranes. letters and the lrlSide Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy avatlable to all members of the commumty and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches campus. through letters. ts encouraged. 
Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Upo 
When I remarked on the irony ofthe timing of his death with regard to our assignment, I was greeted with a double irony -I had read the wrong aSsignment. I'd like to think that White would have appreciated the humor in this. 
The book "Charlotte's Web" tells of a 
I 
..,

friendship between Wilbur the pig and Char­lotte the spider. Charlotte uses intelligence, 
.,l 

ingenuity, and stamina to save Wilbur's life, and then worn out, dies at the county fair. She ,1 
leaves in Wilbur's care an egg sack, which he holds safely in his mouth until he is brought back to the barn at home. 
When, after a long winter's wait the eggs begin to hatch, the baby spiders begin to spin little balloons and float away and out of Wil­bur's life. Wilbur breaks into a panic, and after watching desperately as spider after spider takes to the wind, he closes his eyes in despair and cries himself to sleep, only to awake later and find that three of Charlotte's children have decided to stay and mak~ their homes In 
his barn.  
Charlotte leaves him a legacy of friends which lasts the rest of his life, although none ofthem ever quite take her place in his heart. E.B. White died on October 1. Like the spiders which drifted out of Wilbur's life, the man will be missed. But he leaves a legacy of writing which offers warmth, beauty and in­spiration to all who will read it.  .., ,,,, 1  
john Huebl is a seniorin the College ofArts and Letters at Notre Dame.  

P.O.BoxQ 
majority in South Africa. 
We appreciate Hesburgh's participation in the rally. His apparent opposition to Notre Dame's divestment from South Africa, 
however, is wholly unacceptable to many of us. To begin with, his theory that theJapanese and West Germans would fill the economic vacuum created by divestment is insensitive and insulting to those people's social concern. Second and more Importantly, this line of thinking is believed by many informed scholars on the_ issue to be one of the more fallacious arguments about divestment. Third and finally, let us follow in the footsteps ofot­her fine institutions that have already divested their shares in South Africa, and not be among the last to wring our hands of the crime in South Africa. 
We believe that whereas President Reagan's policy of constructive engagement has only allowed the flames in that country to continue to smolder, constructive dis-engagement (i.e. divestment) will help to extinguish the fire outright. 
-1 
I
Nicholas Griffin 
l
MansourEid 
I
Notre Dame students 

Quote of the day 
"1, a stranger and afraid 
I

In a world I never 
.., 
..,


made." 
A. E. Housman 
(1859-1936) 

"The laws of God, the laws of man" 
Operations Board 
Business Manager.. . ............... David StepheMch Controller............ ..... Wilham J. H1ghducheck Advertising Manager... . ............. Jim Hagan Systems Manager.... . .Mark B. Johnson Production Manager... . ...... John A. Men nell 
Founded November 3, 1966 






Accent 

RING! Notre Dame firemen blaze into action 
r 
r 
amount ofresponsibility to each other," said Bland. "What each does can affect the lives of 200 or 300 people." 
Considering some common components ofdorm rooms -big, over-stuffed chairs from Goodwill, posters on the walls, wooden lofts, ­shaggy carpet where various chemi­cals may have spilled and dried -it's 
Grumblings over untimely drills or policies that limit creativity when decorating SYRs can be quieted by the fact that throughout the 46 years of service there have been no fatalities as a result of fires at the University. 
easy to see that a room could become a blazing inferno within a matter of moments. 
An incident at Providence Col­lege in the early I970s affected fire safety policies at many institutions, and Notre Dame was no exception. According to Bland, one student was trying to dry her socks with a hair dryer when a fire ignited and spread quickly into the hallway. 
Because it was Christmas time and the halls were lined with paper decorations, there was a flash fire effect which claimed the lives of ten women who had opened their doors and entered the corridor. "This is why we enforce decorating rules so strictly," said Bland. 
There have been incidences of damage done to buildings and campus structures. Most recently, the result ofan overabundance of candles burning at the Grotto called the department into action. 
As far as dorm fires go, a fire in St. Edward's Hall onJune 25, I980, probably was the most serious. It began when sparks from a cutting torch used by a workman to remove a fire escape set the roofon fire. Extensive smoke and water damage was done to the entire building, but the fire never reached below the fourth floor. 
As a result, the department now requires that any welding or use of cutting torches on campus be ap­proved by Bland. "Ifthere's any chance ofcombustion as a result of the job, we won't allow it," said Bland. "Ifwe do approve, there will be someone from the fire depart­ment nearby to supePVise." 
Besides Malley and Bland, the department is staffed by eight ex­perienced firemen (two ofwhom act as captains) and three students who also live in the fire house and juggle their academics with the responsibilities offire prevention. "At least four or five of of us will answer a call during the day," said Bland, "and at least three will respond at night." Bland also added that if those responding to the call were to spot any smoke coming from the building at all, the South Bend Fire Department would be called immediately. 
Because more smoke detectors continue to be installed in various buildings, the department is being called out by more false alarms. According to Bland, however, they leave the station hoping each time that it is just a case ofburnt pop­corn or toast. "I'd much rather answer 4000 false alarms than one real fire." 
The department's domain of responsibility is not limited to the University's campus. "We also respond to alarms at Saint Mary's College and Holy Cross Junior College," said Bland. Besides responding immediately to any an_d all fire alarms, the department has a number ofother reponsibilities. Among others, they conduct train­ing sessions, test equipment, install sprinkler systems, clean smoke detectors, check all safety systems regularly and participate in the orientation ofresident assistants each year. 
Possiblity offire, destruction and tragic loss are not things we want or need to be reminded ofevery day. In this respect, the Notre Dame Fire Department does what it can to make them the least ofour worries. Although "National Fire Prevention Week" was last week, the senti­ments that abide at the Notre Dame fire house are reflected well in a comment made by Malley: "We have fire prevention every day here." 

r r Margaret McCabe 
r features staff writer 
r 
r 
r 
I 
t's about II p.m. You're studying r for a midterm or you're in the
r 
shower with shampoo in your hair. The dreaded occurs -the fire alarm blares and an RA. directs everyone out ofthe dorm ... 
Though not uncommon, fire drills are something you neverget used to. As you stand in the cold, shivering and yawning, you might notice the red fire truck parked nearby and people running around the dorm looking for the hypotheti­cal blaze. 
It all seems to be a joke when you have a million things to be done, but the Notre Dame fire depart­

I ment has been serving a serious 
I"' purpose since 1939. 
r­It was at this time that Fire Chief 
r­Brother Borromeo Malley C.S.C, 
r then the director ofutilities, started 
r 
the fire department in cooperation 

r 
with the utilities department. Ac­

r cording to Malley, who constructed the University's first fire engine himself, "There was no fire station at first, so we kept the engine and equipment at the power plant." In the beginning, the fire depart­ment was run entirely by the Holy Cross brothers. The fire station, which is located on the north side ofcampus, was finally built in 1945 and the brothers slept at the station to provide around-the-clock service. It wasn't until 1978 that the fire department was recognized as a 
service independent ofthe utilities department. At this time, highly qualified firemen were hired from outside the University and put on payroll. Also, the position ofdirec­tor offire safety was filled byJack Bland, and Malley became the offi­cial fire chief. 
So for 46 years, the campus has been drilled, inspected, instructed, and asked to abide by certain fire safety policies. Grumblings over untimely drills or policies that limit creativity when decorating for SYRs can be quieted by the fact that throughout the 46 years ofservice, there have been no fatalities as a result offires at the University. 
According to Bland, the general attitude ofstudents during fire drills seems to be one ofunconcern. "This is understandable," said Bland. "Very few people will enter a dorm wondering 'am I safe in this building?' " Recently, this ques­tion has been raised by many when entering hotels across the country. ' 
Some visitors to hotels will refuse to stay in a high rise. Ifthis is the case, then perhaps more concern should be shown by students in regard to their safety in dorms; in the uniform building code for the state ofIndiana, dorms are treated as hotels for purposes ofinspection and fire codes. 
At the very least, it seems a cer­tain level ofawareness is needed for students. "Students hold a certain 


The Observer/Justin Smith 

The Observer/Justin Smith 

Second-year law student John Amarante, a fireman on campus, sits in one ofthe fire engines. Above, Brother Borromeo Malley, C.S.C. (left), the fire chiefofNotre Dame, and Director ofFire Safety Jack Bland (right) look over some building plans and fire escape maps. 


Student learns to handle 'hot' occupation 
Margaret McCabe features staff writer  Lorch feels that most students at Notre Dame only come into contact with the people from the com­ know the best techniques or loca­tions for perch fishing or the best places to buy tools ... much less  Lorch's experience began last summer when he found out that the department would hire during the  
munity in the dining halls or when  how to operate the self-contained  summer. He started working then  
W hen the fire alarm sounds in a dorm, the reactions are fairly  "It's a unique opportunity," said Lorch, "in more ways than the room  they meet janitors or maids in the  breathing apparatus or how to handle a one-and-a-half-inch hose  and when the summer was over, he applied for one of the open posi­ 
predictable ­a lot ofreluctant shuf­fling towards an exit. On the other  and board aspect." Lorch, a former resident of  Lorch is pleased  line?" Ofcourse wherever there are  tions. Although Lorch was trained on  
end ofthe scenario (at the fire station), there's another student responding to the alarm ­except his  Cavanaugh Hall, now lives on the second floor of the fire station with the other firemen. This aspect  not only to see how these firemen  advantages to a situation there are usually one or two disadvantages, and Lorch needs no time to decide  weekends for the first five or six weeks ofthe semester, "I'd never be required to enter a building if it  
responsibilities involve a little more than simply getting himselfout of  presents a great number of advantages to Lorch. "I love the  live, but also to get  what they are: "It's tough getting up in the middle ofthe night to answer  were actually on fire," said Lorch. "I'd remain outside and assist the  
the building. Pat Lorch, a senior biology major, is a fireman for the Notre Dame Fire  quiet," said Lorch. "I can study or go to bed early if I want to, which is tough to do in a dorm."  to know them as people.  calls," said Lorch. However, one (probably amale one) would think there is a slight advantage to  other firemen in any way possible." It's inevitable that students at Notre Dame share many similar  
Department. It doesn't seem likely  The people Lorch lives and works  roaming around a women's dorm at  experiences when it comes to dorm  
that preventing fires would fit easily  with, mostly firemen who've  three in the morning looking for a  life, social life or extra-curricular  
into any student's lifestyle. But  worked in South Bend or Elkhart for  dorm, but very few try to get to  fire. "We joke about it from time to  activities. Without a doubt, Pat  
according to Lorch it has its definite  a time, add interest to life in the  know them. For Lorch, getting to  time," said Lorch, "but when we're  Lorch has managed to create an  
advantages, an obvious one being  firehouse. Lorch is pleased not only  know the firemen has been an en­ actually there we don't really notice  admirable variation in an otherwise  
the compensation Lorch receives in  to see how these frremen live, but  lightening experience. "For in­ anything because we have our  homogenous collection of Notre  
the form offree room and board.  also to get to know them as people.  stance," he said, "how many people  minds on other things."  Dame adventures.  

~, 
Tuesday, October 15, 1985 -page 6 -7 


Desperately seeking stars at the observatory 
Leicester Cheong 
features writer 

M 
any Notre Dame students four Celestron telescopes on hand. probably have never heard of On a clear and moonless night, the Astronomy Observatory located students and visitors can observe on the roof of the fourth floor in stellar formations, foreign galaxies, Nieuwland Science Hall. Yes, folks, star clusters and other intergalactic we really have an Observatory here. phenomena. And even If your inten-. Isn't that great? Now you'll have an tion in going to the observatory is lnte~estlng place to visit on some only one ofa casual visit, just being boring weeknight. on the roof in the cool night air and 
The observatory set-up parallels gazing at the numerous serene that ofa modest science laboratory. spots in the darkness above The equipment available may not sometimes can have an influence on be as sophisticated as some major the emotional, and even spiritual, research· oriented observatories, sides of us. It's a nice sensation. but it does have some hardware As mentioned previously, the that's adequate for the facility's observatory is not intended for present purposes. research and big-time investigation 
An:ording to Terrence Rettig, ofastrological phenomena. The their pens freeze up on them on the 

associate professor of physacs, the present situation will not permit deck. A modern shelter really can primary purpose of the observatory such a large undertaking. Rettig said help the program, and pens. It will is to stimulate visitors and students, the best location for an observatory also make star-gazing a much more 
especially those ofscience­would be in the country pastures, pleasurable and romantic ex­oriented disciplines, to be aware of where there's minimal smog, light, perience. But just lil<e anything alse, our universe and those beyond. and pollution effects. South Bend this will cost. Finances will have to Besides just looking at planets, does not quite fit this bill. So even if be obtained from special funds such constellations and quasars, the the right finances were available, as grants and civil-minded alumni. audience is further encouraged to expanding to create a major obser­The observatory welcomes both 
think about the existence of vatory at Notre Dame probably the student ofastronomy as well as mankind and our planet, and its would be a mistake. the curious visitor. It is open on any relationship to the va..~t unknowns But finances are still helpful, clear night from 7 p.m.' to 11 p.m., in the heavens above. however. The observatory at Sunday through Thursday. So ifit 
This prospect rewards all. For the present is hardly deficient in equip­rains, forget it. 

S<:iem:e student, it develops an ment, but it could use some new However, Wednesdays are more appredation of the other side of facilities. The biggest need right suitable for visitors; the assistants sdence · that of the extra-terrestrial now is for a permanent are better prepared on this day. and a..~trologi<:al realms; and for the observatory-type shelter from the There will be a teaching assistant in 
rest, it augments the liberal arts elements. The viewing deck the facility during the stated times atmosphere that a Notre Dame presently has no shelter, so the and days, and they will be willing to t·du<:ation impresses upon us. heavy telescopes have to be kept in answer any questions. 
For tht· more interested student, the storage room downstairs and The observatory is located on the 

several a..~tronomy courses transported by hand to the viewing roofof the fourth floor in presently are offered. Physics 471 is deck every time a viewing session Nieuwland Hall, right past the de~igned for the science student commences. research section. There are signs with a more established back­In the cold winter months, night posted. So pay a visit when you can, 
wound in physics and other fields. observations can be quite chilling because it's an out-of-this-world 
On tht· other hand, there's also affilirs. In fact. last winter a class had experience. Physk~ I I 0 (introduction to 
......... astronomy) whi<:h can be handled by almost any student. This course f<Kuses on t."verything from the simpk beauty of the night sky to concepts on the formation of the universt·. and it is intended to provide the student with a basic background in a..~tronomy which should lead to an understanding of how science progresses. In fact, for most of us, this may be our only opportunity to operate a telescope 
on campus. The observatory presently has 
The story ofJoe Shmoe and Shelly the bas driver 
it, but I assure you, back then the made-up name, ofcourse), with the aspirin commercials who are always class thought it was just about as things. We chased him all the way complaining about their gargantuan

Tim Adams 

I 
hilarious as Curly ofthe Three back to my house, whereupon my headaches before "hidden" cameras features copy editor Stooges doing his "woob woob dad viewed our empty bucket and (wink wink). Well, being the brats woobs." Eddie's crying face and asked us just we were, we leaped on the oppor· wa..'i sitting amund my room eating way too much sugar-coated Mrs. jones didn't take too well to what the heck was going on. We all tunity to harass her. We sang every totally bored one day, and I cereal for breakfast, and he would it, though, and in her usual fashion shuffled our feet and grinned song in our repertoire oftoilet couldn't find a single: thing to do. vent his extra energy in some un· grabbed poorJoe's earlobe and sheepishly until he let us offthe humor, and gosh, we were having a You know what I mean. usual ways. scooted him to the principal's hook. Then we ran to the basement good ol' time. That is, until we got 
office. My guess is that he had one and cracked up laughing while. we to school. I tried practicing moonwalking 
One day,Joe stuffed spaghetti up bowl each ofCount Chocula, teased Eddie. And I went on to When we arrived at school, she for a while. but even doing my 
his nose during lunch, then Frankenberry, and Booberry cereal become a Boy Scout, too, ladies and slammed the bus Into park and once-favorite activity bored me. I 
proceeded to take a couple cartons that morning. What a nutty guy. gentlemen. yelled, "You kids stay right there." lookt·d through my Felix the Cat 
of milk and whip them against the As ifthose memories weren't My mind was beginning to strain She left, and minutes later returned coloring book, but I already had 
outside wall during recess. I figure fond enough, I began to recall my from all that thinking, so I decided with our principal, Mrs. Kidhater filled in every picture. (Yes, even 
he ate two or three huge bowls of glory days in Cub Scouts, back in one more memory would be (not anybody's real name), who the: one: of Ma..~ter Cylinder.) What 
Kaboom that morning. And five or third and fourth grade. My dad was enough. This time, I thought back was pretty old and crusty in her was I to do? 
six doughnuts. our pack leader, and boy, were we to our daily bus ride to school in own right. Mrs. Kidhater proceeded 


The Oblerver/Hannes Hocker 

At left, one ofthe older telescopes at the observatory. At top, senior Rich Roman looks through a Celestron telescope at the Astronomy Observatory. Above, Mark Gummin, a teacher's assistant, gazes at the heavensfrom thefourth floor ofNieuwland Science Hall. 
bratty. sixth grade. We had the coolest to slap on us one of the stiffest fines 
As most normal people do at lea..<;t 

Another time, he devised a mar­To achieve the cherished bobcat, driver. Her name was Shelly, and imaginable · two demerits. Aauug·
onct• in their lives, I started to 
velous scheme · to make our teac· bear, and wolfbadges, we had to do she even played the radio while she ghh! I never lived that one down.
reminisce about my past ex­
her, Mrs. Jones, go crazy. He went several dopey projects, like collect­drove. She was the neatest. Even Coming back into the present, I 
peraences and friends. Hey, I 
about this by saying the word ing leaves and taking out the her name was cool, because it wiped the sweat off my brow after
thought, this should take up at least 
"three" every minute or so. It garbage. On one ofour pack's many reminded us ofShelly the Turtle, an that intense mental workout. I
three or four minutes of my time. 
wasn't the word that caused the excursions, we collected as many ill-fated character who was featured thought about how lucky I was to
What a great idea! 
cla..~s to break out into high-pitched acorns as we could find. Now ifthat on the box ofsome ill-fated cereal have grown and matured into the 
-
Going all the way back to first guffaws so much a..~ the way he said isn't entertainment, I don't know back then. great guy I am now. Yeah, I've come grade, I recalled a strange lad in my it. He'd contort his face into a what is. One day, Shelly must have been a long way. You just better I hope I class namedJoe Shmoe (names moronical grin and let it fly, a To spice up the festivities, we sick because we had a substitute don't eat a big bowl of Franken­have been changed to protect the drawn-out, idiotic "threeeeee." took the whole bucket and began driver. She was old and crusty, kind berry and come after you with innocent). Joe had a nasty habit of Don't ask me what's so funny about beaning one member, Eddie, (a oflil<e one ofthose ladies you see in some acorns. 

...... 


Sports Briefs 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
tonight at 6:30 p.m. at the boathouse. All members should attend. ­
The Obseroer 
Prospective ND basketballwalk-ons will 
try out for the men's team tonight from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Anyone who is interested should report to the ACC auxiliary gym ready to play at 7:45p.m. Call Coach Kilcullen in the basketball office (239­5337) for more information.-The Obseroer 

Tuesday, October 15, 1985 -page 8 

Speaking ofSports will have an open line tonight at 10 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. Listeners may voice their questions and comments about sports to host Chuck Freeby by calling 239-6400.­
The Obseroer 

The SMC softball team will be meeting tomorrow at 6:30p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. All prospective players must attend. -The Obseroer 
The ND Rugby Club raised its fall record to 6-1 with its sixth straight win Saturday, a 55-0 drubbing of the University of Chicago. The club's "B" squad also won, 33-0. -The Obseroer 
see BRIEFS, page 9 
The Ohsert•er :"Jotrr: Dam<: otfin·. locat<:d on th<· third tloor of Lafortune ~ltHknt C<:nt.-r. anTpls dassifkd adn·rti,in!( from l) a.m. until ·i p.m.. ~limda~ through Frida\. The Ohserr·er Saint :\lan·, oftin· l<><·atnl on th<· third tloor of Ha!(gar Colk!(e C<:nt<·r. atn:pts cla"ifkds from 12:.~0 p m. until.~ p n1. ~I on· day though Friday lkadlint· li>r n<:xt·da\ l'la"itlnb i' .~ p.m. All classifi<:ds must he prt·paid. l"ither in p<:rson or lw mail.< :harg<: is Ill <Tills p<·r fin· c~arat··


Classifieds 
tas <:rdav. 
JOOIESAYS:

SEEKING FEMALE ROOMMATE. NEED 2-4 USC TIX GA OR STUD KATH­I NEED TWO ARMY GA'S. PLEASE Chlel Ju..lca Worn •uear .., •• 
NO SCARY TEETH! 

NOTRE DAME LEEN 2n-1464 CALL MAUREEN 1080 "Any person who doesn't take the oppor· 
APTS.INEXPENSIVE.CALL ALICE 232· !unity to apeak to the 100 law echool reps. 
6069 OR 287-7657. NEED.MANv·u·sc''G"A·;··;;·s:ruo:·Rici< at Stepan Cenler from 11 am to 3 pm on
NOTICES 
NEED 2 ARMY GA $20EA CALL JIM 288-5418$$$ 1605 Wed. Oct 16 ia a fool udeserving ol Con­
chris L: is it really so crazy to be interested 
in you? Or is it just me? 

stitutional protection." 
,.N.iiEo.usc:·-rix:·c'Ai.:i.:.iiR.IAN·A:rm7·.·· 
HAVE 4 ARMY GA'S WOULD PREFER Post-Graduate Service 
................................................................ TO TRADE FOR 4 NAVY GA'S, IF NOT THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
WANTED 

COUNSEUNG ASSOCIATE 287-4082 
Desperately need 5 GA for Navy or Miaa. WILL TAKE BEST OFFER. CALL 288· yPIANOBARy 
PROGRAM

game. Money no object. Cal1Kevin2113. 9502. FEATUIIING; 108 CORIIIGAN 8­11PII, OCT. 15 HCC • SMC yFREE 
Women's C.e Center STUDENT WANTED TO SELL HOT 
IF YOU ARE CONCEIINED ABOUT
.\o..H.iii.:Pi..N.iiE'o"2··:rici<s'F'oFi"N'Avv DONT PANICII SOMEONE WANTS NACHOSy
TYPING CALL CHillS U4-81117 

WOllEN WHO ARE EXPEIIIENCtNG ANEW FOOTBALL BOARD GAME. MUST 
GAME. WHAT'S YOUR PRICE? CALL YOUII 4 USC STUDENT TICKETSII BE AMBITIOUS AND OUTGOING, WITH PR08LEII PIIEGNANCY, THE
KERRY:1302 CALL PAT 2058WOROPIIOCUSING 
A SPORTS BACKROUND. OWN WOllEN'S CAllE CENTER HAS A
................................................................ THANK YOU, ST. JUDE
277-41041 

PROGRAM THAT IIAY IE OF INTEfi­HOURS. GROUND LEVEL SALES YO! Need Army ticket for little bro. Make PAY ATTENTIONFIIEE PICKUP a DEUVEIIY 
POSITION WITH NEW DISTRIBUTOR. hie day & mine. Call Steve,1851. WE ARE WANTIN TO TRADE !!! THE PET STORE IS COMING !!! !!! EST TO YOU. WE ARE OPPOSED TO CALL KEN'S DISTRIBUTING, (707)763-................................................................... 2 ARIIY G.A.a AND THE PET STORE IS COMING !!! 
QOimON AND WANT TO HELP THE 6049, COLLECT. WIU TRADE 2 ARMY GA'S AND S FOR 2 ARIIY STUDENT TICKETS 
WOMAN FACING A PROaEII PREG­NANCY WITH UFE-SAVING AL· TEIINATIVES .yOFFEIIING HER THE 
4 OR 2 MISS. GA'S. KEITH-3034 FOR SAllE NU...EII OF TIM G. KEVIN B. TED/ED S, MIKE M: 
MILWAUKEE DESPERATELY NEED .....).......................................................... USC TICKETS. G.A.a MIAMI VICE,CAUL AND PAULINE. 
RIDE TO MILWAUKEE AREA ON LOVE AND SUPPORT SHE IIAY NEED
WIU TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2 PENN OR STUDENTS'. GLACE LOVE. WE DONT NEED TO CARRY HER CHILD TO TEIIII. AND
LOST/FOUND I 

FRIDAY THE 18TH CAN LEAVE EARLY STATE TIX. 201-1115-41827. GIVE US A DING. JEIIEIIY OR JOHN. AVALON, ETCETCETC THANKS FOR A IN THE AFTERNOON WILL PAY USUAL WE NEED YOUR HELP1 3THE COUN·
234-7412 GREAT TIME AT THE SYRSYRSYR· CALL SARAH 284-4391 EVENINGS SELING ASSOCIATE PROGRAM IS OF· 
2 ARIIY GA'S for sale best offer. call SYRSYRSYRSYR PAT C. MARY H. Larry3640 MAURA M AND KATHY S 
FERED TO GRADUATES INTERESTED HEY: Do you like my JEAN JACKET? I 
HELP,! needaridetoD.C.· northern VIR­................................................................ !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! IN COUNSELING OR SOCIAL WORK, 
know I DID. II by IICCident you took it from 

GINIA area for break. Cal Sean at 3413. 2GA tix USC. 415-966-5291 Duty Office. ................................................................ AND ABLE TO WORK AT THE 
Flanner'a pit on Tueeday right. pleua 

WOMEN'S CARE CENTER ON A FULL· return it. $$$$ Re...,d offered and no PERSONALS
THANKS. Leave name and meaaage for Jaon. WE JUST WANTED THEM MALLEABLY 
TIME, VOLUNTEER BASIS. FOR MORE queetiona aked. Call 11n. 
WASTED .... AND THEY WERE<!!!!!!!!!!! 
IIIDERS NEEDED TO PHILA. AREA 4~··;·u·sc··i·,;:;,;~..;i~d··ii;··c;;EA;;·, INFORMATION. CALL THE CENTER AT 
THANKS ....... 
234-()363.

FOR BREAK CALL B081216 1070 Slnllght,_.,-TH
Here is a test to find whether your mis­
................................................................
LOOk, WHOEVEIIIS THE IIACKPACK sion on earth ia finished: 
Fertility A-­

NEED RIDE TO NEW JERSEY CAN ARIIY TIX FOR SALE (G.A.'S AND Need two atudenll tix for Army. Call
KLEPTOIIAHIAC AHO HAS NAMED 4 

LEAVE 10/17 WILL SHARE EXPENSES Miriam4174 This Friday, 10118, from 4:()().5:00 pm,.
STUDENT) WILL SELL REASONABLE
OTHEIIIIACKPACKS THIS WEEK NOT Ifyou're 8live, it isn't. 
the Women's c.te Center wiU have a Fer­TO IIENTION IIINE, I JUST WANT YOU 
CALL JOHN 1024 PNf-tlvan to--"1111 ..of them (c:.ll 277-71170) A crowd of homeboy& ie waiting lor the 

miry Awareneu PI'Oflr8m which wil cover TO KNOW THAT YOU'VE IIAOE IIY • Richard Bach.lllullfona.
I really need a ride to and from D.C. area jello exploeion. How do you apefl relief premenarruel syndrome, Nature/ Family UFE A UVING HELL THIS WEEK. AT 
aver break. Cell John at 289-5198. Planning, end other gynecological heelth 
USC-NO GA TIX NEEDED. CALL TOM from a -of hard work? J-E·L-L-0!
LEAST USE WHAT UTTLE DECENCY 

iaauo that you may have questionsYOU HAVE LIFT TO IIETUIIHI IIY OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR.
HOLLERBACH COLLECT AT 312-565-Come on Runnin' Rambo. show ue your 
Need a ride to Rocheater/upatate NY for about. There is no charge for this in­
5959. jeHo! Oct. break. Would prefer to leave after formative PI'OfiTem. Calf the Women's
NOTD.AGAIN, IT IS A ...0-CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 
JANSPOIIT CONTAINING BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Army and return before USC. Terry Care Center at 234·0363 for more in­
NEEDED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR THE ARMY HEAVENS TO MERGETROID!! HEY. J.
IR,FJIENCH,SCIENCE 

><2045. form•tion.
GAME! PLEASE CALL COLLEEN SMC-B.: No one wiH ever be able to tell me that 
NOTDOOKS,AND KEYS. MHO TO Help us avoid the Beantown bluea. Give 
4355 it's not worth it to read the claaaifi-1 WHEN YOU LEAVE FOR D.C. AND FIND 1034 EDDY ALL FOR 1ft 1 FOR ALL EX· 
LOST AND FOUND IN THE AD .UILJ). ue a ride to Boston or vicinity for Octobef 
................................................................ Thank& ag&ln for everything and don't
lNG OR SEND AN ANONYMOUS NOTE break. Call Meria 4174. 
THAT YOUR CAR WON'T START, IT'S NEED TICKETS FOR USC GAME CALL snift any winecorka. Lave. THE KING CEPT FOR 1-MCHALE PARRISH OJ 
AS TO ITS WHUEMOUTS TO 315 

BECAUSE I TOOK YOUR MOTOR. FOR ANN 284-4296 FLING FEVER-CATCH IT!!! AINGE 
SENIORSWALSH IN CARE OF VICTIM. 
THE SAKE OF YOU AND YOUR CAR. 

FOR 1986-87, CONSIDER WORK WITH PLEASE GIVE ME A RIDE TO THE D.C. NEEDED:GA & STUDENT TX FOR MARSHA you are a swine Why don't you 
CONNIEBEA· LOST: IIY NAVY auE SPOilT COAT HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY!' IS ON THIS CAMPUS SOIIEWHEIIE. I PROGRAM IN CHILE. APPLICATION
AREA. I'LL PAY MY SHARE AND A ARMY.THIS IS A PLEA FOR HELP!CALL clean your fetid vomit out ol our tub? No, 
LITTLE MORE. CALL CHARLES AT LOVE YA, GREG 
1254. we are not going to call you. 1456
WOULD UKE IT IIACK AND THERE DEADLINE NOV. 7. CALL MARY ANN 
WIU .E NO ? ASKED. NO ONE HAS ROEMER 7949. 
I have a PAIR of ARMY GA's foreale. Beet CALLED ABOUT THEIR SPOilT COAT 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHRISTINE THAT I HAVE. PLEASE CAU.IIIKE AT SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS' Sonny, Dugg•e. Cogs, Mike. Mark and "BABYCAKES" BYRNEII I'VE GOT 
I NEED A RIDER TO GO FROM BOS­offer aver $50. Call Peter 4-10 PM at 2n­
TON BACK TO N.D. I'LL LEAVE BOs­8285. Will be lOki by 10 PM TUE. .
1101 IF YOU HAVE ..NE OR I HAVE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATE: A CHANCE Kevin. 
YOUR 18TH!' LOVE YA.KELL Y 

TON ON SATURDAY, OCT. 26 OR ................................................................
YOURS. TO LEARN, TO GIVE, TO GROW AND 
The SYR was so much fun TO LOVE. FOR INFO CALL 239-5521IF YOU NEED A RIDE! FROM CALIFORNIA CALL CURTIS AT 
SUNDAY, OCT. 27. CALL SUSAN 2875 NEED TWO USC GA'S FOR PARENTS 
With laughter, songs and cheers Hey Yoyoe (Yeah YOU. Joe M. and Pal Loet a Hamihon gold watch in SAGA on OR 239-7949. The Good Times Rolled the whole night R.)! These SMC'S AIN'T lor free' We Thuradey Oct. 10. PI-c.11 284-5490. 1421 long
I NEED A RIDER TO GO TO NEW didn't want you two clowns to be dflpnved 
Reward. Yea. I admit it, I want to go to N-J.,..y 
And will throughout the yeare. after for Octobef break. And yea, I admit it I
YORK/ NEW JERSEY AREA ON SAT. NEEDED: 3 Navy GA's Call Paul at 1605 of your OWN personal FOUR 
We started out the evening right 
OCT.190RSUN. OCT20. CALL SUSAN WHOLE YEARS! How 'bout them
................................................................
LASSIE COME HOME!Our loet hund want to be here for the Army and USC
2875SOON!! A proceaion Lewia-bound Browne?? It must have been your Hans
2 ARMY STUDENT TICKETS FOR 
ana-. by the namea ol Benle. Spot, games. Finally, I have to admit that I need With all the guya in matching auiiS Haue-Kamikaze toast that inspored and Stay(a in Fetch, Stay, Fetch). He's a ride to the Garden State. Will pay the
SALE. Call284-4425 . 
The party ioom welound Bernie! hill! Huakie/German Shepard and hia dia­uaual. PI-caH 3490 if you can ofter me Punch me, Mark' laid everyone 
Lave. tingiulhing feature ie a e-toot chain drll!l' a ride. And some of ue got punched out 
Your future Cleveland lnd•ane ging behind him. Look-wi ..he r-mblea But not before we had our time
WE AilE WIWNG TO TRADE; Side-line Girte. (We promiae a wolt.REWARO OFFERE0.288-5371 SIIAU AMIIAI..S, PREGNANT? To let it all hang out. to be Iober enough to walk 
FOR SALE 

NEED HELP? 
CHILDREN, Bye, bye. Miaa American Pie. 
th<>m atr&Jgh!!lOKAY. YOU WIN! whoever took my blue OR ONE 111881881PPI G.A. Hello. auck and blow 
Calf 234-D363. 24-hr. hodine, counseling backpack from aouth dining hal 9/29. I FOR1 USCG.A.ORSTUDENTTICKET. & free pregnancy teata. Kick off your shoes and couch'dance julll want to aay thank& alot! You have GIVE US A CALL. WOllEN'S CARE CENTER And glitter everyone you know. S.M.C. Jr. Class CANDY BAR SALE 
given my frelhrnan y-a good start! Ia It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 JEREMY OR JOHN. $1.00 each Help Sell call 5046 or jull Who,_~? I wil jullloquint har­through the U.S. government? Get the 234-7412 EAT' EM! der.AIIo I do not need my band mUIIic or facta today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. THE LAW CARAVAN M888 kiaaing in the 'valor 
mouthpiece, you are probely putting 7316 IS In the dance room playing HA! To the partiers from the Budget-. them to good uae! I alae hOpe my French ARMY GA's FOR SALE.JOHN 1024 COlliNG Singing loud and strongly thank& for a wild and crazy time. Our Shot­not• and book are helping you, I -KEYBOARD, Korg Poly-800. 5 moe. okl, Wad., Oct. 111,1rom 11 am to 3 pm, .. Glittering the RA. GunaareatiNsmoking. Thegirtefrom 107. 
wanting to buy 1 n-book and make a xcel cond. $550 or beat offer. cal Tom at NEED:GA'S AND STUDENT TX FOR the atapan c.m. Bliaaful fun 'til3:00 whole ,_ aet or notea anyway. I don't 1619. USCICALL 1254 100 Law School IIepa. wtl be on hand Crazy timea and memories made need an umbr... in thia terrific -ther, lor oo-t·onelnlonnai..-Jnga Simple mind& are easily amuaed Tom H Had a great time Friday night. you let it keep you dry. 1~ke to walk in the 1973 SAA8 99 Mechanically aound. FWD I NEED USC GA'S AU STUDENTS ARE INVITED By theetupid game& we played. Hope you did too' But ... wlfl f ever aee you l'llin. ~you feel the urge to return any ol my makea it aweaome in snow. Xlnt winter WILL PAY BIG $$, OR WILL TRADE It certainly wa a wonderful time again??!! Lois thinga, c.ll SLOAN at 4553 or bring to 838 car forth-p-. Bill 233-8788 GA'S FOR ANY OTHER HOME GAME But all good timea must end 
P.E. And again, thank& alotl! I need a ride to Detroit on Friday afternoon FUZZY, Thank you for lest friday night! I
PLEASE CALL CATHY AT 3604 Until the next one cornea around 
or Saturday morning 10 I can aee my 11-You guya are the beat of friende! wiH nevet forget ill I hope you had a good found one white necklace at the Notre 2 ARMY GA'S FOR SALE Face Value y--old brother play aome rMI footbllfl! WE LOVE YOU I! time too. 'cuz there'elota more where that Dame Circle on lriday night Cal 283-Paul4052 For thia treat I wil ol courH pay all the Susie, Marjorie, Fran. Nancy, Sarah. and came from (wink)!! Senauoully yours, La 3076todaim TICKETS uaualexpensea. Cindy La P.S. Think about brown monkiea! 
NEED 1 NAVY GA FOR MOM. PLEASE. 
Cal Beth at 2630. FOUND: PRUCRIPTION CALL JOE AT 1900 SMC chice: Got a gripe? Cal 2050,2051. 
SUNOl •UU LEFT IN OllaUVP I NEED USC GA'a Have caah & home HELP! I need a ride from WaiL DC to NO Jim, 2052, 2061,2062, 2069 tonight and let Ul OFFICI .aiiETIIIE AT THI IIICIIN­GA'e for trade: Call DAVE 1712 HWNG TWO ARIIY G.M. Cell Chuck on Oct. 27. WiN share expense&. Cell Did you expect this four montha ago? hear it! SMC GRIPE NIGHT!!! ..NG OF THE SCHOOL YEAR.~ at 3685 or 239-7668. Kathy at 2600 . I love you! 
TOIITOIR-SHELL FRAIIU IN A need 4 tixs to army call2723491 (gas) Tracy Mike and Evil -We requeat an encore aACK CASE. CLAIII AT OllaUVEII FOR SALE One USC lllud tic. Beat offer. P.S. Don't you hate when I AM respon­You guya were
THANK YOU, ST. JUDE. preformance! the OFFICE. I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CALL MIKE AT Markx3434. sible for this greatell! lt'a aomething "we wil tell our 
1605 .............................,.................................. grandchildren about!" Speaking ol S.Y.R. 
HEYYOUIII
FOUND: ONE SET OF FOOTBALL TICK­ATTENTION: YOU Need 1 ArmyGA Call WOOOO PIG SOODIE ENDAD time in LeMans ... Shades, trenchcoata. ETS THE NIGHT OF THE MICH. ST. Need many USC GA tix. Will pay big Billatln5 and brut; No John, you're auppoaed to be GAME. HAVE REASON TO BELEIVE bucka! Pleaae call289-34n. I need a ride to Penaacola, Florida HAVE 4 ARMY AND 2 NAVY GA'S.NEED in your room! Mo. you can't drive. and THAT AN SMC STUDENT LOST THEM WHY CUT YOUR BREAK OFF or somewhere close (Mobile, Albama) 2 MISS llludent tix and/or 2 GA'e. Will neither can you, John; isn't the beck seat BECAUSE OF LOCATION FOUND. NEED PENN STATE TIXIII EARLY.SELL ME YOUR USC TICKETS. after the Army game Saturday or Sunday swap,aell or buy. Help some BOS­<X>zy? Lee, we're not listening to AC/DC! PLEASE GIVE INFO. ABOUT WHERE WiU trade 2 Navy GA'a DAVE1948 TONIANS aee an NO game.Cal CLAIRE The only fine Italian restaurant (NOT the LOST IF POSSIBLE' CALL 1074, ASK For 2 Penn State GA'a PLEASE CALL 108AT 2077 after 12 midnt x3823. one in Niles. Tom) Look, there's Mike and FOR MIKE. II you've got Penn at.ta tlx, NEED 2 USC GA'S call Brian 288-5270 Evii...OOH NOOD!!1 Boys, not just .... Larry ..2082 yyyy ATTENTION ROSE yyyy TO THE FR anybody gall serenaded in Pizza Hut; LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. NEED USC TIX 2 STUD & 2 GA HAVE 2 MEN FROM BP WHO STOPPED BY Lee,l told you to bring the umbrella! Great REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CON­STUDTIOX THE NOVICE ARE HERE Today ie the KEENAN FIRST FLOOR SUNDAY dancing shoes, Tom; John, can you TACT ALICE 287-7657. HELP! HELP! NEED 1 ARMY GA'S! WILL first dey of fights in the N.D. Boxing club NIGHT...CHEERS-FEST THURSDAY dance like ... Boy Lee, you really DO like to 
novice tournament. Come out and aee all
PAY BIG BUCKS! CALL TED AT 4073 NEED USC TIX 2 GA & 2 STUD HAVE 2 8:00 BE THERE 1!!1 dance! No green sweater for Mo. but ORBOBAT2199! STUD TIX FOR ALL GAMES CALL RED the action at 4:00 in the ACC boxing room. Azare perking lot was her real downFALL; 
1596 THE NOVICE ARE HERE WHAT DO MICHELANGELO, OSCAR let's go slammin' at Denny's -John, I need 3 Army Student Tix and 4 USC WILDE, RITA MAE BROWN, NOEL Denny's wa BACK there!!! Want someFOR RENT GA's or Student Tix. Will pay top $, call NEED A USC STUD TICKET REAL ATTENTION K·IIAIIT SHOPPERS SA8 COWARD AND E.M. FORSTER HAVE pancake& with your syrup, Ritz? Didn't 
1644-Dan BAD? WILL YOUR KID SISTER KILL BUS TO O'HARE FOR FALL BREAK. IN COMMON? YOU GUESSED IT! IF anybody get any Bleep last night? Nice YOU IF SHE DOESN'T GET ONE? THIS $10 $10 $10 $10 $10 $10 $10 $10 YOU'RE ONE OF THE LUCKY 10 PER toothpick, Tom! Hey guys, we really had a RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE I need 4 Army & 4 USC GA's call Mike ONE'S GOING TO THE HIGHEST BID­BUSES LEAVE MAIN CIRCLE FRI OCT CENT, CONTACT GAYS a LEHIANS blast • Thank& Matress, Gramps, and OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR 3095 DER!! CALL3741. 18 6 PM SAT OCT 19 6 PM DEADLINE AT ND/SIIC, PO BOX 114, NOTRE Tom! Love, Blanket, Grama. and 
CITY/COLLEGATE RENTALS FOR PAYMENT IS THURS OCT 17 AT DAilE, IN 41158 FOR CONFIDENTIAL Motown ... But what does CC>O-COO INC.,2597661 ARIIY QAa FOR SALE.272-AOI I NEED AIIIIY aUSC GA8.232·1411 SAB RECORD STORE. INFORMATION. relilly mean? 
' 
The Observer 
Tuesday, October 15, 1985-page 9 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 8 
A freshman swimming meet will be held by NVA tonight at 7 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Building. Divers must provide a list of dives before the meet. Call Coach Welch at 239-7042 or 239-SIOO for more information.-The Observer 
Prospective ND women's basketball 
walk-ons will try out for the team tomorrow from 8:30p.m. to 10 
p.m. Anyone who is interested should report to the ACC auxiliary gym ready to play on that day. -The Observer 
A pep rally will be held Friday at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. Guest speakers will include members of the 1935 football team and offensive line coach Jim Higgins. -The Observer 
SMC intra.tnural tennis tournament entries will be accepted at the Angela Athletic Facility until Friday. Both singles and doubles matches will be played. -The Observer 
Open co-ree volleyball games will be played every Wednesday night from 9 p.m. to 10:45 p.m. in the Angela Ath­letic Facility.-The Observer 
Ihe ,Obset:Ver____ 
An independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­plications for the following positions: 
e  News Editor  
e  DayChief  
Questions should be directed to Sarah Hamilton or Amy Stephan. Resumes and personal statements are due Thursday,  
October 17 at 5 p.m. 


For more inwrmation, call The Observer at 239-5313 
The SAB Presents: 
Bus to O'Hare Airport 
Leave Main Circle Fri. Oct. 18 6pm

$10 
Sat. Oct. 19 6pm 
Thurs. Oct. 17 at SAB Record Store 


Consultants to 
International 

We have clients seeking qualified individuals with language and area expertise regarding foreign markets. 


Part-time and full-time assignments available. 
Foreign nationals with advance degrees from American universities needed as visa restrictions will not effect certain projects. 
Technical fields iil hard sciences, 
computers, marketing and fmance 
most desirable.· 
Send resume, including telephone number to: 
Swenson, Crawford & Paine 
Executive Search Division 
P.0. Box A 3619 
Chicago, Dllnois 60690 

Toronto faces Royals tonight 
Cardinals win on Smith's homer 
ST. LOUIS -Ozzie Smith, the least likely man in the St. Louis lineup, homered with one out in the ninth inning to give the Cardinals a 3-2 vic­tory over Los Angeles in the pivotal fifth game of the National League playoffs yesterday. With the victory, the Cardinals swept the three games in their home park and took a 3-2 lead as the best-of-seven series headed back to Los Angeles. 
The homer came on a 1-2 pitch from Tom Niedenfuer and was the first that the switch-hitting Smith has hit batting left-handed in 2,968 career at-bats. He had only six homers this season. 
After an off day, the series resumes tomorrow afternoon at Dodger Stadium. In a rematch of Game 2, won by the Dodgers 8-2, Los Angeles will start right-hander Ore! Her­shiser against the Cardinals' Joaquin Andujar. 
In American League action, Kansas City travels to Toronto tonight to take on the Blue Jays in a game starting at 8:1 5 p.m. EDT. 
Before Smith's dramatic homer 
yesterday, the two teams had played 
a 2-2 tie after Bill Madlock's two-run 
home run for the Dodgers in the 
fourth inning. 
In and out oftrouble, Dodger left­
bander Fernando Valenzuela finally 
left after throwing 132 pitches 
through eight innings, and Nieden­
fuer, who saved Game 1 for Valen­
zuela, came in to pitch. 
He got Willie McGee to foul out to third and ran the count to a ball and two strikes on Smith before the slightly built shortstop launched .one into the second deck in right field, bringing his teammates rus­hing onto the field and eliciting a huge ovation from the 53.708 at 
Busch Stadium. 
Tommy Herr gave the Cardinals 
their only two other runs in the 

and Mil Mlllvllvan Classic 
E.B. Wh 
FAREWELL, MY LOVELY! 
Based on one of America's most loved essays Directed By WILLIAM RHYS 
Tuesday. October 29 Washington Hall 8:10pm 
Tickets: $14 Main Floor, $12 Balcony, $10 Students and Senior Citizens Group rates available 
For ticket lnformatlon:(219)239-5957 
and see--•
You'll hear A every word 
Sponsored by N.D. Department of Communication Th tre and the Student Activities Board 
game with a two-run double in the first inning, and Madlock evened it up in the fourth. It was the most closely contested game ofthe series. In fact, it was the only game decided after the sixth inning and only the second game of the playoffs decided after the third. 
The winning pitcher was Cardinal bullpen ace Jeff Lahti, the fourth St. Louis pitcher ofthe day, who retired the Dodgers in order in the ninth. 
Valenzuela pitched eight innings, giving up four hits and two runs with seven strikeouts and eight walks. The walks established an NL playoff record, surpassing the six allowed in 1974 by Pittsburgh's Bruce KJson and in Game 3 of this series by the Dodgers' Bob Welch . 
The Cardinals played their second straight game of the series without left fielder Vince Coleman, whose left leg was injured Sunday when he was partially trapped under the machine that rolls the tarp onto the field. 
"I wouldn't wish what happened to me on my worst enemy," said Coleman, whose only real injuries were scrapes and bruises. He could play Wednesday in Los Angeles. 
Cardinals right-hander Bob Forsch, a spot starter this year, lasted only 3 1-3 innings before he was relieved by left-bander Ken Dayley after giving up the tying runs in the fourth inning. The 35-year-old Forsch is the senior member of the Cardinals, having been with the club since 1974. 
Cards manager Whitey Herzog elected to go with Forsch on yester­<4y instead ofbringing back Andujar on three day's rest. Andujar was inef­fective in losing Game 2 in Los An­geles, going 4 1-3 innings and giving 
up six runs on eight hits. 
In Game I, Valenzuela had to 
pitch his way out ofminor trouble in 
the first two innings. This time, he 
was only half as lucky. And this time, 
the trouble was ofhis own doing, the 
result of wildness. 
Valenzuela walked Willie McGee 
on a 3-2 pitch to start the first inning. 
McGee checked his swing just in 
time to avoid striking out, and the 
next batter, Smith, walked on four 
pitches. Valenzuela then threw a 
strike to Herr before the Cards' RBI 
leader pulled a ground double down 
the left-field line. 
McGee scored easily and Smith ran through the "stop" sign of third­base coach Hal Lanier to score as Pedro Guerrero's throw from left field sailed over the head ofcatcher Mike Scioscia. Valenzuela backed up the play, and Herr held at second. Herr, who homered in Game 3, wound up at third shortly thereafter, however, when Valenzuela threw the ball into center field on an at­tempted pickoff. 
The Cards failed to score Herr as Jack Clark lined out hard to Bill Mad­lock at third, Cesar Cedeno struck out and Tito Landrum, Coleman's replacement in left field, flied to center. 
The double was Herr's fourth of the playoffs, tying a record set by Pete Rose of Cincinnati and Matty Alou of Oakland, both in 1972. And the RBis were the fourth and fifth in the series for Herr, who had 110 during the season. 
The Cardinals again had the first two runners of the second inning aboard on a double by Terry Pendleton and a walk to Darrell Porter. Forsch sacrificed the runners to second and third, but McGee struck out and Smith popped deep to shortstop Mariano Duncan to end the threat. 
Correction 
Because of an editing error, a hc:-adline in yesterday's paper in­correctly reported the status of the American League Champion­ship Series. Toronto leads the series, 3-2, over Kansas City. 
' 

The Observer Tuesday, October 15, 1985-page 10 
Clubs find success in competition 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY: The Notre Dame women's cross country team took this past weekend off. After having run in the Loyola Lakefront Invita­tional two weekends ago, the Irish ready themselves for a big meet at Indiana University next weekend where they will be competing in the Little State In­vitaional Cross Country Championship. 
"We should do real well at the meet because we are really begining to run well," said team captain Mary Beth Fiske. "At first, we didn't know how many women were going to run because ofbreak. But now we know that Kathleen Lehman, Julian Merkel and Nancy Loughlin will be, we should place well. Also, I intend to run in the tournament and hopefully, I am competely healed from my tendonitis inj_ury." 
After the Indiana meet, the Irish will run in the North Star Confrence Meet on October 26. The team feels pretty optimistic about the meet. 
"This year has been a little bit disappointing be­cause we have had a problem with injuries," said Fiske. "But all the runners have done real well this season and I expect good results at the confrence meet." 
One of the women who should do real well is Julian Merkel, who at the Loyola Lakefront Invita­tional placed 13th overall and was the first of the Irish to cross the finish line. Overall, the Irish as a team finished 1Oth out of 1 5 teams. 
ROWING CLUB: When the members ofthe Notre Dame Rowing team went to Des Moines, Iowa on September 28, they went into the regatta expecting good results. They weren't disappointed. They en­tered four boats and three of them came away with medals. In fact, one of the lightweight boats dupl­icated last year's feat when it came away with the fastest time of the day. And in accomplishing this feat, the boat was awarded the Traveling Trophy. 
In the lightweight division where the Irish enter two boats, the A boat won the gold medal and the trophy, while the Irish B boat settled for the silver. The participants in the winning boat were: Jeff Coil, Joe Brunnetti, Chuck Lumb, Tod Waffner, Eric 


Tom Voon 

Club Corner 
Adams, John Crilly, John Gibbon, Le Keogh and coxswain Lisa Thummus. 
In the heavyweight division, the Irish won the sil­ver medal, losing only to Kansas State. On the women's side, the Irish won the gold in the Open and Lightweight division. 
Last weekend, the rowing club traveled to Petersburough, Canada and participated in the Head ofTrent regatta. The Irish were one oftwo American squads in the race which had 54 boats total. Notre Dame entered three boats and they placed 17th, 23rd and 28th. 
"It was a very big trip and gave our club more exposure," commented team member Chris Ric­hardson. "Hopefully, by our results in Des Moines and Canada, the Administration will realize that our club is growing quickly and maybe give us varsity status." 
This weekend, the women's rowing team will travel to Boston and race in a very big regatta. The reason why the men's team cannot go is that this regatta has many varsity teams and can only accept a few club teams. Last year the men's team, which placed 18th, received priority over the women's team. So this year, the women will go, and maybe before the week is out the men's team, which is on the waiting list, will be accepted. 
"We really hope to be expected this year because this year, we have a much better team," said Ric­hardson. "I believe that we could do real well in Bos­ton, but since we are only a club team, we can only wait." 
Iowa retains No. 1 spot in poll; Wolverines move up to challenge 
Iowa remained No. 1 in the As­sociated Press college football poll yesterday but Michigan edged ahead of Oklahoma to set up a 1-2 show­down this Saturday, while surprising Army cracked the rankings for the first time in 23 years. 
The top three teams received 59 of the 60 first-place votes, with the other one going to sixth-ranked Penn State. 
Iowa is No. 1 for the third week in a row after defeating Wisconsin 23­
13. The Hawkeyes received 27 first­place votes and 1,146 of a possible 1,200 points from a nationwide panel · of sports writers and sportscasters. 
Michigan, which blanked Mic­higan State 31-0, received 20 first­Nebraska 34-24. Meanwhile, Arkansas climbed from sixth to fourth with 936 points following a 30-7 triumph over Texas Tech and Florida rose from seventh to fifth with 905 points by defeating Ten­nessee 17-10. 
Penn State, a 19-17 winner over Alabama, received the one first­place vote and 902 points. Alabama slipped from 1Oth to 15th. 
Nebraska moved up from ninth to seventh with 868 points and Auburn's bombing of Florida State enabled the Tigers to jump from 12th to eighth with 777 points. 
Rounding out the Top Ten are defending national champion Brig­ham Young, which trounced San Diego State 28-0 and vaulted from 11th to ninth with 685 points, and Air Force, which trimmed Navy 24-7 and shot from 13th to 1Oth with 624 points. 
.The Second Ten consists of Ohio State, Oklahoma State, Florida State, Baylor, Alabama, Georgia, LSU, UCLA, Army and Tennessee. 
Army's 45-14 rout of Boston Col­lege gave the Cadets a 5-0 record for the first time since 1950 and put them in the rankings for the first time since a No. 10 listing on Oct. 1, 1962. 
place votes and 1,126 points in 
All paid members ore invited to pick up
exchanging places with Oklahoma. The Sooners slipped from second to 
their Pre-Low pockets in 1 0 1 O'Shog 
Nice border. huh Dave 
third with 12 first-place votes and 
1,124 points despite a 14-7 victory 
Don't forget: Law Caravan tomorrow at Stepan 11-3 
over Texas that knocked the Lon­
ghorns out ofthe Top Twenty. 
Southern Methodist, a 21-14 loser t about the ~o9fat0 to Baylor, was the only other team to f\ndo e • .. fall out of the rankings. The Mus­
t.l os•"

tangs lost to Baylor 21-14. Florida State, which had been No. 
II ,ee'l~!p.ssoc·

4, lost to Auburn 59-27 and fell to C• ~\) p.\Utt't\ 13th place. Oklahoma State dropped sOteau'l 
~vat\

from fifth to 12th after losing to 
• 
Find out about prospective career choices 

• 
Positions available in many cities 


AP Top Twenty The Top Twen1y college foot~*~ teema in The As­
For more information 
sociated Preas poll, with firat-plllce votes in paren­th-. thieeeuon'e recorda and total pointa. Points 
caD Annette 239-6000 
baaed on 20-t9-t8-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
areitalicized. 
-
1. lowa(27) 
2. Michigan (20) 
3. 
Oklahoma ( 12) 

4. 
Arkaneaa 

5. 
Florida 


6. Penn State (1) 

7. 
Nebraska 

8. 
Auburn 

9. 
Brigham Young 


10. 
Air Force 

11. 
Ohio State 

12. 
Oklahoma State 

13. 
Florida State 

14. 
Baylor 

15. 
Alllbama 

16. 
Georgia 


17. LSU 
18. UCLA 
Ill. Army 
20.T­
5-0-0 1,146 
5-0-0 1,126 

• College Day • 
3-D-0 1,124 
5-0-0 936 

4-D-1 905 • 9 a.m. at • 
5-0-0 902 
4-1-0 868 
4-1-0 777 

: 9 to : Capello's : oct. • 
5-1-0 685 

• p.m. : •••••••••••••••••••••• ~ : 16 :
6-0-0 624 

4-1-0 522 4-1-0 493 •• Hair e11t and blow dry $8 00 • 
4-1-0 459 

5-f.O 375 • with •tadeat I.D. oalv • : 
4·1-0 364 4-1-0 336 

• CaD 255-1001 today 513 E. McKialey • 
3-1-0 212 4-1-1 182 

e SO YOU WON'T MISS OUT Mt.hawaka 
5-0-0 146 
2-1-1 141 

Novice boxing tournament begins this afternoon at ACC 
The Notre Dame Boxing Club will hold its annual novice boxing tournament beginning today. This afternoon at 4:00 the tournament begins in the boxing room at the ACC. The finals of the tournament will be held Thursday at 4 p.m., also in the boxing room. Final practices and weigh-ins were held yesterday. 
For the last six weeks these novice boxers have been training hard with this tournament in mind. This novice tournament serves as preparation for the Bengal Bouts in the spring, giving it added impor­tance. Spectators are urged to attend and lend their support to the aspir­ing boxers. 

Help Prevent Birth Defects 


A PARTY! 
No, a celebration...lt's our Birthday Our present to you is continued excellent and low prices. 
Men&Women 
Haircuts $600 (every 5th free)
. ' 
:Gloss Cuts $1500 (adds luster to dull hair) (adds color highlights) 
:color Cuts $1500
• (adds bounce or direction
:Bounce Cuts $1500 
• to short hair)
•
•Perms $250tp 
Walk over or call 277-0057 
The Varsity Shop •• •
Edison at 23 • 
New hours 8:00am-7:30pm M-Sat :
• 

----------~-----------· 
r----------clip and save ------------, 
II DELIVERY HOURS: 6:00 ·Midnight 272-5455
NAUGLES® 
501 Dixieway North, Roseland, Indiana 
NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! 
MEXICAN KITCHEN 
Reg.  M•cho  
Taco  1.09  1.69  
Burritos  
Bean  1.79  2.49  
Meat  2.39  3.29  
Combo  2.09  2.79  
Cheese  1.89  2.59  

Make any burrito wet for 50 cents!! 
P.S. Don't order macho unless you're ready for a pound of goodies! 
Nachos & Cheese 1.19 Have some sauce for no extra charge to spice them up that much more. 
Macho Nacho'• 2.19 Retried beans, chips. cheese, peppers, mild meat sauce, spicy green sauce! 
Tostada Grande 3.29 
(In a shell · wonderful) 

R.,. Planer Mexican Salad 1.29 2.89 Toetada Combo 1.59 2.09 Chile Ole'. .99 2.39 Taco Sandwich 1.49 2.59 Chicken Sandwich 1.74 2.84 
Platter · Assortment of sauces & side orders. Want it a special way· just order It! 
Enchilada's (Platter of 2) Meat -lotza sauce & cheese 2.00 Chicken 2.50 
DINNERS 

41"1 Enchilada · 1 chicken, 1 beef 41"2 Macho Taco #3 Meat Burrito #4 Cheese Burrito & Taco 
Complete with Mexican salad, retried beans, chill & cheese, guacamole, sour cream & a pile of chips. 
A dinner with enough left over for tomorra.11's LUNCH! 
4.79 

Plus tax on prices -$5.00 mlrnr.;:..~m order 
AMERICAN KITCHEN 
Hamburgers -4 to a pound 
CUSTOM GRILlED NOT STOCK Pll£0 
Naugleburger 1.99 2 Patties with the works double cheese 
Deluxe Hamburger 1.39 2 Patties with lettuce, tomato, mayo dressing 
Hamburger 1.19 2 Patties with pickle. ketchup, mustard. onion 
add cheese .20 
DESSERTS 
Hot Fudge • Hot Caramel • Strawberry • Orange Blueberry • Chocolate • Cherry • Van~la • Root Beer Shakes 1.09 Sundaes 1.49 Fudge Brownie .69 Pastry .69 Fudge Brownie Sundae 1.69 
DRINK UP! 
Cold Beverages 12 oz...64 20 oz...79 32 oz...94 
Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Root Beer, Mt. Dew Dr. Pepper, Welches, Sunklst, Lemonade lee Tea, Milk, Orange Juice 
Hot Beverages -.4 7 
Coffee, Hot Chocolate, Hot Tea 
SIDE ORDERS 
French Frtee .99 Retried Beans .99 with chill eauce .99 
Nacho Chlpa . .39 Guacamole · Fresh, Fresh, Fresh .89 Sour Cream .25 Extra chee•e for anything .50 


------~~-~-clip and save·----------­
i-S

~,_\)Gt: Needs·Drivers!!! 
Flexible hours, good 
CALL TODAVII (Business is Booming) 


'JI['t:Jtt:ll.at~------------------------------------------T·u•e•s•d-ay_,_o_c_t_o_b_e_r_I_s_,_l9•8--5---p·a•g•e•l-l 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Mat!/ IJ.fW ~PfCOIWW6. A~ Y()(J f;r}(NG YOII 51f(J(!W 
NO. Mflt( 1H6 /£U. 15 IIU. 1HIS 5T7ff ? {111f 
N€0-fKENCH PROVINCIAL. 
-------... 

Hannibal's first anempt 




The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Certain fiber 5 Examine 
minutely 
9 Hied 13 Give the eye 14 Less ruddy 16 Anxiety 17 Med. subj. 18 Over 19 He wrote "Rule 
Britannia" 20 Circus 
performer 23 Compass point 24 Have being 25 Issue forth 28 Sprinkle 31 Distributes 32 Cheese type 34 The almighty I 36 Parched 37 Glass sections 38 Calling or 
playing 39 Loco 40 "Carmen" 
©1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc.

composer 41 Crowd at times  All Rights Reserved  
42 Indian  
44 Crowns  9 Climbed  
45 Diamonds  10 Recreation  
46 Lemony  place  
47 Hobo  11 Sea eagle  
55 Snack  12 Ruminant  
56 Eng. city  15 Gifts for  
57 Capri, e.g.  good deeds  
58 Leaveout  21 Touches  
59 Bar for  22 Vicinity  
slackening  25 Cheese type  
threads  26 Aesop's point  
60 Dash  27 Leave out a  
61 Wagers  syllable  
62 Salamander  28 Singing pair  
63 Cult  29 Machine parts  
30 Heron  
DOWN  32 Stare  
1 Gravy  33 Single  
receptacle  35 Poems  
2 Hindu god of  37 Slender tube 10/15/85  
fire  38 Winning slot  
3 Ore refuse  machine 44 Associate  50 Air. port  
4 Leashed  camblnation 46 Scatter  51 Circuit  
5 Rare  40 One of the 47 Rounded lump  breaker  
6 lt. navigator 7 Cockeyed 8 Granular snow  three Bs 48 Alaskan city 41 Veracious 49 "-true what 43 Dark times they..."  52 Eur. capital 53 Winglike 54 Car mar  
r~ ~ ~·  ·. ')J..'~~~XICK>M(. .  ·~~..-.  ·•.  •.  




Campus 
•6:30 
P.M. · Party, AIESEC Paint The Office Party, Room 232 Cushing Hall 

•7:00 
P.M. · loformadonal Meeting, Notre Dame/St. Mary's London and Rome Summer Programs, Professor A.R. Black, St. Mary's Col­lege, Carroll Hall (St. Mary's) 

•7:30 
P.M. -Meeting, STAR WARS Space Defense, Lafortune Student Center Little Theater, Sponsored by Notre Dame L-5 Society 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Braised Short Ribs Chicken Pot Pie Cheese Ravioli Spidano Romano Sandwich 
Saint Mary's Veal Madeline Beef Pot Pie 
Corn Dogs 


TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 6:30P.M. 16 MASH 22 lbree's Company 7:00P.M. 16 1985 League Championship 
Series 7 American League East 22 Hometown 28 Who's the Boss? 46 Fall Telethon 
7:30 P.M. 28 Growing Pains 8:00P.M. 22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie: "Promises To Keep" 34 NOVA: "Seeds ofTomorrow" 9:00P.M. 28 Our FamUy Honor 28 A Walk Through the 20th Cen­tury: "30 Second President" 
10:00 P.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 War: The Profession ofArms 
10:30P.M. 16 TonightShow 
,::~<~~~ . ~~~.... -~.>.:c<..:>,»;:-;:..~)IM('latl(-.c~-<~•..-:•:· ·;•;·: ·;~ 
~ ~~ Wlp! 1JrinQ <&arbenn ~ 
-:J~~~~ Basement of Lafortune:Enter through door near Crowley ! 
~ : -? Discount for weekend flowers ordered in advance ~_;_.. ~ .~.o Hours 1 ~~~ . .. ,..J?!DER NO!!! CA!,!183-4242_ Mon ~!!~~~e.J 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

previously unbeaten Morrissey, 7-6. Greg Stohr details this game and others that were played this 
weekend in h,is story at right. 
Basketball ticket sale to begin soon 
Kleine out 4-6 weeks following knee injury 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Editor 
Junior starting defensive tackle Wally Kleine will be lost to the Notre Dame football team for the next four to six weeks, it was an­nounced yesterday. Kleine un­derwent successful arthroscopic surgery on his right knee Sunday afternoon after injuring it during a rigorous team practice on Saturday. 
The injury, which at first was thought only to be a slight sprain, was fully realized on Sunday mor­ning when Kleine awoke to find that the knee had locked up on him. Upon further examination, it was discovered that he had torn some cartilage in the knee, as well as straining some liga­ments. 
"It's a tough loss for us," said Irish head coach Gerry Faust. "We hope to have Wally back for the last two to three games ofthe season, though. He couldn't have gotten through the season wit­hout the surgery." 
It is expected that senior nose tackle Eric Dorsey will move over to see time at Kleine's right tackle spot. In turn, senior Mike Kiernan and sophomore Matt Dingens would play more at nose tackle. Sophomore Bob Martz will switch over from left tackle to back up Dorsey on the right Side. 


Wally Kleine 
The 6-9, 274-pound Kleine ranks seventh in tackles for Notre Dame this season with 22 and is credited with causing one fumble. 
As a sophomore, Kleine started every game as he racked up 48 tackles. He led the Irish in tackles for lost yardage and was a first­team pick on the sophomore all­America team of Football News. 
Students are to bring applications, payment and their ID card to Gate 3 ofthe ACC on the specified day, and each student may present up to four applications and IDs. 
Married students who would like a ticket for their spouse must show proof of marriage to receive their tickets. 
This year's student package in­cludes a ticket for 13 of the 16 scheduled home games. Omitted be· cause of . Thanksgiving and Christmas breaks are the Butler, Val­paraiso and Creighton games. In­cluded in the package is the Nov. 20 exhibition game with the Smelt Olimpija team ofYugoslavia. 
Cost of the package is SS2 for lower arena seats and $39 for bleac­her seats. 

-----. 
Tuesday, October 15, 1985 -page 12 
lnterhall races tighten with final games near 
By GREG STOHR Pat Marget to Stash Marczyk hetped 
Sports Writer Dillon triumph on Sunday. Morris­
sey countered with a 12-yard, 

Two major upsets Sunday compl-fourth-quarter John Mundo-ta-Tom 
icated the interhall football playoff Hardiman scoring pass but failed on 
situation as the teams prepare for a two-point conversion attempt. Oil­
the final round of regular-season Ion raised its record to 2-1-1, while 
play Wednesday and Thursday. Morrissey dropped to 3-1. 
Cavanaugh pulled the biggest up-Flanner, meanwhile, improved to 
set of the year by shocking Holy 2-1-1 and remained in control of its 
Cross, 12-8, to muddle the playoff own destiny with a 8-2 win over hap­
outlook in the Leahy Division. less 0-4 Off-Campus. A 51-yard Greg 
Cavanaugh had not scored in its last Smith interception return provided 
15 games and had not won in its last the winning touchdown. 
17 contests prior to the victory. "It won't be up to any other teams 
Cavanaugh team captain Tory Pat-now," said Flanner captain Tom Sul­
terson credits the victory to his livan. "We know we just have to 
team's unexpected wishbone of-win." 
fense. Grace moved into a first-place tie 
"The only reason we beat Holy with Morrissey by stopping Keenan, 
Cross was because we came out in 9-7. Butch Shnur kicked a 35-yard 
the wishbone," he said. "Holy Cross field goal, and John Mihalovich 
was not even prepared for it." added a 10-yard touchdown recep· 
At no time was that wishbone tion of a Tom Doyle throw for the 
more potent than on Cavanaugh's 3·1 winners. 
final touchdown drive. The In the Rockne Division 3-0 Sorin, 
Cavemen rolled 74 yards on just two despite not playing Sunday, became 
plays, both option pitches to Mark the first squad to clich a playoff spot. 
Bradshaw. Earlier, Curtis Takigishi Carroll's 2-0 win over 
had plunged two yards for 
Cavanaugh's first score. 

Cavanaugh, 1·2, will challenge defending champion Stanford on Thursday at 9:00 at Cartier Field. 2-1 Stanford will be fresh off Sunday's 
10-0 blanking of Zahm. A 30-yard Dan O'Donnell field goal and a 31­yard Vince Calouri run provided the scoring for the victors. 
"We had one surprise for Holy Cross (the wishbone)," warns Pat­terson, "but we're going to have two for Stanford." 
In the other Leahy game on Thursday, 1-2 Zahm will face Alumni, 1-2, at Cartier at 7:00. All five of the Leahy Division teams are still in contention for post-season ac· tion. 
Dillon produced the other big up· set of the week by conquering previously unbeaten Morrissey, 7-6. Dillon's triumph means that the win­ners of Wednesday's 7:00 Dillon­Grace game and 8:00 Morrissey-Flanner contest will reach the playoffs from the Parseg­hian Division. Both games are at Car· tier Field. 
A 28-yard touchdown pass from Pangborn/Fisher eliminated the losers and secured Sorin's post­season berth. 
Carroll will face fellow 2-1 squad Howard Thursday at 10:00 at Cartier in a battle for the final Rockne 
playoff position. Howard won its second consecutive game, a 7-6 tri­umph over winless St. Ed's. Mike Dooley hit Tom Passinault for a .24­yard touchdown pass for Howard. 
Carroll's lone two points in its vic­tory came through no merit of its own. An errant snap by the Pangborn/Fisher center sailed over his punter's head and out of the end zone for a safety. 
Sorin hopes to secure a first-round 
bye in the playoffs at Cartier at 8:00 
Thursday when it faces 1-2 
Pangborn/Fisher. 
Two Sundays ago in the Leahy 
Division, Holy Cross blanked Zahm, 
14-0, and Stanford conquered 
Alumni, 13-6. In the Parseghian Divi· 
sian, Flanner blanked Keenan, 8-0, 
Dillon shut out Off-Campus, 7-0, and 
Morrissey thrashed Grace, 13-0. In 
the Leahy Division Pangborn/Fisher 
edged St. Ed's, 7·6, and Sorin 
defeated Carroll, 7·0. 

Student ticket applications for the 1985-86 Notre Dame basketball season are in the mail and should be received by all Notre Dame students by Thursday. A lottery for the 200 Saint Mary's applications will be conducted tonight at Haggar Col­lege Center. 
Any Notre Dame student not receiving his or her application by Thursday should go to the ticket office on the second floor ofthe ACC to pick one up. 
Saint Mary's students must register for the lottery at the Haggar Information Desk today by 5 p.m. with their ID card in order to be eligible. After the lottery is con­ducted, a list of winners will be posted in all residence halls, the dining hall and at Haggar. Winning students are to pick up their applica­tions between Wednesday and Friday at the information desk. 
Do not mail the application in to the ticket office. Instead, bring it with you on the appropriate day for distribution. 
Distribution will be according to the following schedule: 
•Seniors-Monday, Oct. ~8 •Juniors-Tuesday, Oct. 29 

•Sophomores, 
Graduate and Law Wednesday, Oct. 30 

•
Freshmen -Thursday, Oct. 31 



Tennis team finishes up fine fall; looks forward to spring season 
By EDJORDANICH 

Sports Writer 
A 9-1 dual match record. The North Star Conference Champion­ship, the Irish Invitational Cham­pionship and an impressive top-ten finish in the Northwestern Invita­tional. 
If Notre Dame women's tennis coach Michele Gelfman had set her fall season goals any higher, she would only have been pleased with perfection. As it turned out, she al­most got it. 
Last weekend's conference cham­pionship in St. Louis was the capper on an outstanding fall warm-up for Gelfman's squad. Making its debut in Division I tennis, the Irish sailed through a schedule of second-class opponents and held their own against the challenging competition it faced. 
"I'm estatic about the way the girls played in these last six weeks," said Gelfman. "They played hard, practiced hard, and they drove themselves to improve the entire fall. I can't say enough about the dedication of the girls to achieve what they have. Their play was remarkable under the pressures of academics, and the balance they demonstrated was excellent." 

After a three week break from competition, which will consist of conditioning,lifting and some hit· ting, the Irish will play in the Rolex Invitational in mid-November. The 
experience will be essential because the spring season will formally in­troduce The team to big time women's tennis. Some tough Big Ten teams combined with other 
Division I heavyweights will provide enough reasons for more hard work and Gelfman is aware of necessary improvements. 
"We have to work on changing stratagies, our serve and volley games and our baseline consis­tency," said Gelfman. "We also have 
to improve our tenacity when it comes to putting points away." Led all season by the steady play of 
senior captain Susie Panther, the Irish will make few changes in per­sonnel over the winter. The singles lineup of Panther, Mary Colligan, 
Michele Dasso, lzzy O'Brien, Joanne Biafore and Tammy Schmidt proved their strength and will try to extend the momentum gained in the fall. 
The doubles teams of Panther­Dasso, Colligan-O'Brien, with Biafore and freshman Natalie Illig, were formidable as the season ended and can only get better as their court time together increases. 
The future looks very bright for the Notre Dame women's tennis program. The fall season was both a confidence builder and an indica­
tion for Gelfman of where improve­ment is needed, both in singles and doubles play. The hard work has paid dividends already and the 
spring should be an interesting and exciting season. Division I powers beware. ·There's a new kid on the block. 




