-----~~-~--------­
CROP Walk-page 3 


HPC gives okay to new constitution 
By SCOTT BEARBY our halls feel," said incoming Badin Assistant News Editor President Judith Windhorst. Student Body Vice President 
The Notre Dame Hall Presidents' Cathy David sympathized with the Council echoed earlier Senate ap­new presidents, but asked them to proval ofa new student government understand the nearing deadline constitution at last night's meeting, before the new administration takes clearing the way for it to take effect over. with the new administration on She stated that she hoped incom­April I'i. ing presidents had been briefed by 
Discussion of the document cen· retiring officers. tered more on whether the HPC Rob Bertino, student body presi· should vote on it at the meeting, not dent, said negative press and "some on the constitution itself. of the worst journalism I've seen in 
In the end, the body agreed to four years" could alter opinions if vote on the proposal. But each presi­the presidents took the proposal dent was given the option to abstain, back to individual hall councils. consult with their hall councils, and 
Bertino also stressed that lastthen vote yes or no at a later date. 
week the HPC unanimously passedThe original final tally was 22 votes the basic structuring proposal pre­to approve the constitution with sented in the constitution.
abstentions by presidents from Fis­her, Keenan and Morrissey halls. Hall elections for senator are still lbere were no votes against the planned for the end of the week fol­constitution. lowing Easter, according to David. 
Incoming Keenan President Bill Senators elected before the new Boyle said, "I didn't feel I was constitution was passed will serve as qualified since I was not involved in their respective hall's representa­the selection process," adding that tives. the old president should have made An informational meeting will be the decision. After meeting with held tonight at the student govern· Keenan's former president, Boyle ment offices in LaFortune Center for changed the hall's vote to yes. all those students interested in run­
Boyle further added, "they took ning for senate positions. David en­advantage of the transition period" courages prospective candidates to in getting the constitution passed. contact her if they cannot make the 
Fisher and Morrissey halls are still meeting. considering the proposal. In other news, "Millions for MS" 
The restructured student govern­Chairperson Aline Gioffre an· ment calls for the senate to have one nounced to the HPC that Notre representative from each hall and Dame had defeated nine other uni­off-campus, will eliminate class versities in money raised per capita presidents as voting members, and for Multiple Sclerosis. will incorporate the Student Activi­Over S22,000 ( S3.31 per capita) ties Board under the senate. was raised in the Notre Dame and 
Unlike other senate actions, the Saint Mary's community. In new constitution does not need ap· residence hall competition, Fisher proval by the Campus Life Council Hall raised $3.58 per person and or Vice President for Student Affairs placed first. Father David Tyson. Further funds were added by the 
"I think new presidents agree recent Hall Presidents' Council with the structure, but want to do raffie which raised 11964 according what is right. We don't know what to HPC Chairman Chris Tayback. 

The Observer/Mary Flynn 

But he hates to wait 
Tom Pace waits in line yesterday at the Washington Hail Box Officefor tickets to tonight's Notre Dame Glee Club spring concert. There was no chargefor the tickets, and remaining tickets will be distributed at the door tonight. The concert begins at 8:15. 
Win official: MTV concert on April27 
By KAREN MC CLOSKEY 
News Staff 
It's official. Notre Dame has won the first annual Millions Against MS Fundraiser. 
The Notre Dame Student Activi­ties Office received the confirma· tion phone call yesterday morning from the National Multiple Sclerosis Society headquartered in New York I 
~ 
City. 
As a reward for raising the most money per capita, the winning school was promised a free concert from MTV, Music Television. 
Notre Dame will receive its free concert on April 27 in the ACC. The performer will be Tommy Shaw, guitarist for Styx. 
With a total of S22,676, Notre Dame was one of only two schools to raise over $20,000. Marquette, 
l
the runner up in the competition 
1
raised approximately S22,300. 
With its enrollment of 8900 un· dergraduates, Marquette could not better the Notre Dame mark of S3.31 raised per student. Notre Dame has an undergraduate enroll· ment of6847. 
The New York Millions Against MS office would not release the results of the other ten competitors. 
"We can be very happy and very proud," said ND Millions Against MS Co-chairperson, Vince Willis. "We were one of the smallest student bodies and we raised the most money, period." 
Aline Gioffre, Co-chairperson of the committee, said," I just hope everyone realizes the national coverage that this campaign and this concert will receive. I can only hope that when the other eleven schools 
see CONCERT, page 4 


U.S. 'hopeful' for summit meeting, possible sites Helsinki, New York 
Associated Press But Reagan and the U.S. official been no discussions about arrange­said the agenda would range beyond ments for a summit, no meeting set, WASHINGTON -Soviet leader weapons to include other issues, as no time set, nothing along those 
Mikhail Gorbachev has "agreed in well. Among them, presumably, are lines." 
principle" to a summit meeting with human rights, which the Soviets 
President Reagan, but the time and pledged to improve when they and Reagan, in an Oval Office inter­
place still must be worked out, a 34 other countries, including the view Monday with The Washington 
senior U.S. official said yesterday. United States, signed the Helsinki Post, refused to discuss the contents agreement in the Finnish capital in ofGorbachev's letter but said he was
Two possible sites and times are 
1975. "hopeful" that a summit could beHelsinki, Finland, in August, and the Reagan has frequently criticized held. Other administration officialsUnited Nations in New York in Sep­the Soviets' record. The Helsinki were similarly tight-lipped. I "Itember, the official, who insisted on agreement will be marked by a 1 0-wrote, and he (Gorbachev) an­anonymity, told The Associated year anniversary observance onAug. swered, and we're in negotiations,Press. 
1. It is an important accord for the and we'll just leave it like that," theIt would be the first U.S.-Soviet 
Soviets since it climaxed more than president said.
summit since 1979, when former a decade of effort to confirm theirPresident Jimmy Carter and the late influence in Eastern Europe.
Leonid Brezhnev signed the second Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty Finland, as· the host, has been con­
Correction

(SALT II) to reduce some kinds of sidering invitations to the foreign nuclear weapons. ministers of the 3 5 governments 
Yesterday's story concerning that signed the agreement. 
the Student Senate vote on theThe two sides are stockpiling The opening ofthe annual session new constitution contained another missiles, however, and have of the U.N. general Assembly, mean­error in explaining the proce­been unable to agree on ways to stop while, draws foreign ministers and dure used to amend the consti­their arms race. In declaring it was other senior officials to New York. 

tution. The current"high time" for a summit, Reagan Last September, Reagan chose the constitution states "a vote ofsaid at his last news conference two session as a forum for a major speech two:thirds of the voting mem­weeks ago that he would try to urging a new dialogue with Moscow. 

bers of the Student Senate" isquicken the pace of negotiations needed to propose a change in now being held in Geneva, S~tzer­The president's spokesman, Larry the constitution.

Jand. ifhe met with Gorbachev. Speakes, told reporters "there have 

, 
"r 
i 
r 
r 
,~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r
, 
r 
~ 
The Observer 
In Brief 
I 

The Notre Dame Student Activities Board has an­nounced its new staff for the l98S-86 school year. The new board manager is Lee Broussard. The general business manager is Rob Hoover. And the new controller is jack Gallagher. "In ere are l 0 new commissioners on the SAB. Orlando Griego has been named calender commissioner. janet Grojean is the new campus entertain­ment commissioner. The new cultural arts commissioner is Anne DuCharme. For ideas and issues commissioner, Mike Yore has been chosen. The new movie commissioner is Donna Callis. And the musi­cal entertainment commissioner is Ron Mileti. The personnel com· missioner is Sarah Stenger. Meegan Reilly is the new publicity commissioner. For services commissioner, Ted Mandell has been chosen. And Steven Morita is the new special events commissioner. · 
The Obsen•er 

Megan Koreman,a Notre Dame junior in the Program of Liberal Studies, has been awarded an S1800 Endowment for the Humanities grant. One-hundred such grants are awarded as part of the Young Scholars Program. Koreman will have nine weeks in the summer to write a research paper here at Notre Dame. Her working title is ""lbe Myth of Romantic Love in Literature," and she plans to examine "Madame Bovary," "War and Peace," and "Pride and Preju· dice" for such a theme. Koreman is prohibited from working at an outside job or taking courses for credit during the nine weeks. Koreman applied in September for the grant. Janet Smith, assistant professor in the program of liberal studies, was her adviser am! received J..iOO from the program. ·The Obsen•er 
Khmer Rouge guerrillassaid yesterday that they killed 362 Vietnamese soldiers and wounded 339 in repulsing a Viet· namese attack in western Cambodia near the 'lbai border. A Thai military ~ource confirmed the battle in Battambang province took place but said the claimed casualties appeared high. A Khmer Rouge radio broadcast monitored in Bangkok said 7,000 Vietnamese troops supported by artillery and other heavy weapons attacked the guerril· las at the Souvan hills on March 23. 'Inc Vietnamese renewed the attacks on March 28, 29 and 30, the radio said. -AP 
Life began in clayrather than in the seas according to a recently released NASA report. The researchers have verified that day can store and transfer energy, two properties essential for the generation oflife, they told a symposium at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Ames Research Center in California. "The functional attributes that we associate with life are not neces· sarily confined to organic systems," said Dr. Lelia Coyne, a San jose State University chemist who led the NASA research team. "The recognition that many of the specific functions ofliving systems can be performed by inorganic molecular systems is forcing us to re­examine, at a real fundamental level, the definition oflife," she said. "Inc "clay-life theory" of evolution challenges the long-favored no· tion that life emerged from the primordial oceans after millions of years ofchemical reactions between simple organic molecules.·AP 
Of Interest 

A meeting ofRASTA, Rally Against Starvation, will be tonight at 8 in the Center for Social Concerns. Group coordina· tors will be presenting information on an upcoming benefit concert. 
· The Obsen•er 
Weather 

It's getting better. Partly sunny, breezy and a little warmer today with highs in the mid SOs. Mostly cloudy tonight with lows in the mid 30s. Partly sunny tomorrow with highs in the mid SOs. ·AP 

The Observer 
The Observer ( l'SP!. S<J<J 2·4000) i' puhlhhed Munday thmugh Friwr and on homt· football Saturday~. ext:ept during exam and vacation period~. The Observer i' puhli'h~d hy the .rudent' uf the t:nivcrsity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary'' College. Suh"'ription' may he purcha,cd for 1.'10 per y~ar ( JlO per se· mc,tcr) hy writing The Observer, P.O. llox Q. Notr~ Dame. Indiana 46SS6. 
The Observer i' a m~mhcr of The Assoclaled Press. All reproduction right' are rc,..,rved. 
Toc.lay'~ issue wa!'t prmJu'-·ed by: 

Uesig11 Editor................................ Andy Saal 1Jesig11 Assista11t ..................... Alcx Peltzer Layout Staff....................... Tracy Schindel~ Typesel/ers ................................. Vic: Guarino Mary Ellen llarrington Ted Dorc Neu•s Editor......................... Keith Harri~on Copy Edllor................................. John Hine' Sports Copy liditor .............. Mar<· Ramirez Vieupoi11t Copy Editor............ Mary Ellen Vieupuitll Lti)'UUI ................. Carol Brown 
Features Copy Editor................... E,f l\uhm Features J.ti)'HUI.. .. jane: Anne Riedford ,VIJ Day liditor ..............Cindy Rauckhor.t ~MC Day Editor............................. Ed Nolan Ad 1Jesig11 .................................. Fred Nl'lson 
Catherine Ram~den Photographer............................. Mary Flynn 
Wednesday, April 3, 1985-page 2 
Spring will spring, basketballs will bounce 
Spring. Even in South Bend it's bound to get here eventually. Right now, there may be more ethanol in the air than spriug, but the calendar says April indica­ting that any day now spring will indeed ... uh, spring. 
Spring. That lovely time of year when all things again seem possible. New life appears. People come out of their shells, shedding an extra ten or so pounds of win· ter clothing. 
Spring. Even at Notre Dame there are the telltale signs that things are warming up. Icy sidewalks no longer impede us on the way to class. Instead, the quads are barraged by fun-seekers armed with frisbees and softballs. 
But spring at Notre Dame means more. lbe true sign of spring here might be captured in this simple phrase: "In the spring, a young man's fancy lightly turns to..." bookstore. A young woman's too. 
Yes, indeed, it's that time of year again, time for Bookstore Basketball. "Ibis famous rite ofspring can be seen as one of the last true 
Andi Schnuck 
Assistant Production Manager 

afternoon's slate of games, it somehow seems to sneak up on the unsuspecting. Passers-by get drawn in by the action of a great game while walking by the bookstore or Stepan courts. Forgeting what you originally set out to do, many an hour will be spent courcside. 
Once you find yourself glued at courtside, do not despair that time is being wasted. Many things can be accomplished with a minimum ofeffort. A key activity for those not interested in basketball is the ever popular scoping. Bookstore's great renown provides an excel­
lent opportunity for mem· 

social events left on campus. her~ of either sex to see and 
In a matter of days the be seen, without being too 
greatest basketball tourna­obvious. 
ment on earth, as some Bookstore Basketball also 
believe, will commence, offers an easy method to be a 
giving hours of entertain­good neighbor, big brother. 
ment. It has something to of­sistt·r or friend without 
fer to everyone on campus. really even trying. You 
Although Bookstore Bas­might not be able to bake ketball might appear geared ('Ookies, but it's easy to stand toward the more athletically through someone's basket· aware, you really don't need hall game. It always seems th to know slamdunking from bt· a boost for those on the donut dunking to enjoy it. ('Ourt ti> know, no matter Even engineering students how good or bad they are. can relate to it. they still have fans on their 
Obviously, for campus side. 
sports diehards who just Spring and the warm wea­
weren't satisfied with only 64 NCAA basketball tourna­ment teams, the bookstore tournament will provide massive daily doses of fast-paced action with a starting field of S60 teams. The first games are scheduled to begin right after break on April 9, so sports junkies won't have to wait long for another basketball fix. 
Non-sports lovers too can enjoy the thrills of bookstore. Everyone seems to have a different reason for weathering the intemperate South Bend climate to watch the world's largest basketball tournament. 
As if we need another diversion, Bookstore Basket· ball offers an exciting break from those long hours we all devote to our books. What will it hurt if we only watch one game? The books will still be there after the first game, and the second, and the third.... 
Being a veteran bookstore junkie, I no longer even debate whether I'll sit in the 'brar with a philosophy book, or withstand the elements watching four hours of basketball. The choice seems crystal clear. 
Even when one doesn't plan on watching an entire 
ther it promises may never 

make it to Notre Dame. But sun or no sun, one can be sure that Bookstore Basketball will get here right on schedule. 
The Obseroer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide· column article on the Viewpoint page. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Obseroer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Obseroer staff. 

SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
(5 x 10 spaces available) 
Call 259-0335 to reserve space self lock storage of McKinley 
816 East McKinley Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 
............................. 
ClubsI Organizations 
Now is the time for aU ClubsIOrganizations to: 
1. 
Register for the 85-86 Academic Year 

2. 
Request Student Activity funding 

3. 
Apply for a Football concession stand 


All forms are available in the Student Activi­ties Office, 1st floor of LaFortune. Deadline is Monday, April 15, 1985. 
............................. 

The Observer Wednesday, April 3, 1985-page 3 

AP Photo 
Juana that bas popped up everywhere in the tiny Central American country, bas become the top trzoney-earner, surpassing sugar, with most sales of the dmg going to the United States. 
ByJAMES MONTGOMERY 
News Staff 

On April 14, Notre Dame Basket­ball Coach Digger Phelps will join members of the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and South Bend communities in doing something about. world hunger by participating in St. Joseph County's Third Annual CROP Hunger Walk. The 1Okm ( 6.2 miles) walk begins with registration at St. Joseph High School at I:30 p.m. and follows a course through downtown South Bend and Mishawaka. 
Each walker will obtain sponsors who pledge a certain amount of money per kilometer. Last year's walk raised S 16,000. 
CROP, a branch of Church World Services, has set $25,000 and 800 walkers as this year's goaL 
Bill Jordan, director ofoff-campus recruiting, is more optimistic. 
"Last year we did not have the proper infrastructure for recruit­ing," Jordan stated. 'This year there has been a lot more publicity.' 
Included in this new in­frastructure are hall representatives and members of service groups, clubs and other organizations. 
Phelps, others walk for world's hungry 
Phelps has agreed to help the CROP Walk this year, though he's not sure if he can go through with the walk. If he can't, his S652 worth 1 of pledges will be transferred to Stu­1 
1
dent Body President Rob Bertino, 
1
who will walk in his place. according ,to Jordan. 
Other organizations involved in recruiting for the walk include the ~ Hall President's Council, Neighbor­hood Help Study Program, Big Brot­her/ Big Sister Program, and ROTC. Bob O'Brien, a Marine ROTC senior, 
jhas recruited about 30 Marines to run the !OK. 
"We'll run in formation, which will add comraderie to the event," O'Brien said. "It's for a good cause, and will show that ROTC is capable of humanitarian things." O'Brien is also in charge of recruiting runners in the other three services. 
At Saint Mary's the SMC World 
l ~ 
Hunger Coalition is in charge of recruiting. 
"So far the response is hearten­ing," said Anne Gallagher, recruiting director. "My goal is not so much a specific number as making people aware of the walk so that they can participate, through walking or sponsoring." 

'Anything is better than plagiarizing,' says ND professor 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
Copy Editor 
A student copies an article from Newsweek and does not document it as a source. Another student hands in a paper written by his roommate. A third student uses an architecture book to help him with his project, but fails to tell his professor that he did so. 
All are examples of plagiarism. All violate academic integrity. And if discovered, all can result in serious punishment. 
A question immediately comes to mind. Why would a student do it? 
"At midsemester and at the end of a semester a student may become panicked. He might have a strict teacher that won't give him an ex­tension on the deadline. Rather than hand nothing in or something half done. they do things they shouldn't do," said Edward Kline, chairman of the English department and director of the freshman writing program at Notre Dame. 
"If a student has a number of deadlines to meet, and they all hap­pen to coincide, that's when the temptation (to plagiarize) comes," said Kathleen O'Gorman, a teacher in the freshman writing program at Notre Dame. "People offer to do favors for friends. He or she sees a friend bogged down with work, and will come in and say, 'I'll write that English or theology paper for you while you do the rest.' " 
In other instances, a student's plagiarism is the result of that stu­dent not realizing what constitutes plagiarism. In one such recent case, Mary Broske, a finance and business economics assistant professor at Notre Dame, discovered that an entire class of seniors had failed to document their sources on a major project. 
"The fact that this report involved the entire class clearly indicates that no deception was intended on their part," said Broske. "If I thought my students were guilty of plagiarism, I would have immediately brought it to the Honesty Committee. I'm a bear when it comes to academic in­tegrity.'' 
There is some disagreement among faculty and administrators about whether or not freshmen plagiarize more often than up­perclassmen. 
"(Freshmen) are more prone to plagiarize because they don't under­stand what plagiarism is," said Kline. "In some high schools, they are en­couraged to copy straight from the encyclopedia. Many bring that habit from high schooL They're innocent victims of bad training. But on the other hand, we do have those who deliberately do it.'' 
"(Freshmen plagiarize) for differ­ent reasons than upperclassmen. but I don't think they plagiarize any more than anyone else," said Susan Vanek, freshman academic coun­selor at Saint Mary's. "In fact, I think they plagiarize a little less because freshmen don't have as many papers to write, as say, an English major.'' 
Despite students' best efforts to conceal their plagiarism, instructors maintain that plagiarism is rather easy to recognize. "You would be shocked at how obvious it is, not only to the teacher who knows the student's writing style, but also to an impartial observer," said O'Gorman. 
"Professors active in research not only can recognize plagiarism but can tell where it came from," said Kline. "Usually when (students) plagiarize, they plagiarize good stuff, not junk. It's usually a mature in­sight. Not that undergraduates are incapable of mature insights, but it signals we either have an excep­tional student or we have a prob­lem." 
Many students believe a teacher will not go through the trouble of looking up a source in order to prove a case of plagiarism. This is simply not the case, said O'Gorman. 
"It certainly is not the way a teacher wants to spend his or her time, but you become determined to find what the source was," she said. "Students don't know that we do that. We know how to use resource references to find things fairly quickly.'' 1 

~
O'Gorman added some simple ad­vice for students tempted to ~ 
,
plagiarize. "Every teacher at the University, 1 1
,
think, prefers to have a student come to him or her and say, '1 can't get the work done on time,' instead of plagiarizing. A lowered grade for turning in a paper late is still better than plagiarizing," she said, adding, "Anything is better than plagiarizing, anything.'' 
Architects celebrate, honor two 
Special to The Observer 
Two of five living winners of the 
coveted Gold Medal ofthe American 
Institute of Architects will be 
honored Tuesday, April 9, by Notre 
Dame. 
The honorees will be participants 
in a celebration of the School of Ar­
chitecture's new master's degree 
program. 
The daylong observance is called 
"A Salute to Architecture" and is co­
sponsored by the AlA. The gold 
medal winners, persons who have 
been singled out for their distinctive 
contributions to the profession, will 
participate in a symposium and 
receive honorary fine arts degrees at 
an academic convocation. 
The architects are Pietro Bel­
luschi, Portland, Ore., the 1972 gold· 
medal winner, and Phillip Johnson, 
New York City, who received the 
gold medal in 1978. 
Other principals include John Burgee, an architectural partner of Johnson and a 1956 Notre Dame alumnus who will deliver the ad­dress at the academic convocation; 
R. Bruce Patty, the president of the AlA who will moderate part of the symposium, and Richard Guy Wil­son, author ofa recent book on win­ners of the AlA Gold Medal 
Wilson is an associate professor of architecture at the University ofVir­ginia. He will speak on the history and significance of the gold medal and lead a discussion among the ar­chitects at the end of the sympo­sium. 

The Observer Wednesday, April 3, 1985 page 4 
Legislators fast for bill to halt foreclosures 
A.'lsoclated Press 

,r 
ST. PAllI., Minn.-Agroup of Dem­
r 
ocratic legislators fasted f(Jr a 
' ~ r 
sct:ond day yesterday to rally sup­port for a hill stalled in the Republican-controlled House that would halt all farm foreclosures in the state for one year. 
Twenty-six lawmaker~. all mem­bers of the Dcmocratic-Farmcr­l.ahor Party, signed a pledge to fast, maintain a vigil or support those who arc fasting until the full House votes on the measure a third timt.· to­morrow. 
"ll's a symbolic attempt to show people who arc living in uncertainty and real cnmomic insecurity that there are people who care," said state Rep. Todd Otis. "I realize it's a symbolic thing." 
The fasting lawmakers set up a table outside the House chambers and at least three were staffing the table li1r three-hour shifts around the dock. 
I f 
r 
'f11c state Senate, where the Democratic-Farm-Labor Party has a '12-2'; majority, has twice passed legislation to impose a moratorium on farm mortgage foreclosures. But the hill was overwhelmingly defeated by a committee in the House, where the Republicans hold a 69-6'; majority. 
Two unsuccessful attempts have been made on the House floor to override the committee action and bring the hill up for a vote by the full House. The last procedural vote ran strictly along party lines. 
Otis, :\9. said he has taken only water and vitamin pills since joining the fast Monday, after about .200 farmers visited the Capitol to round up support for the moratorium. 
Independent-Republicans argue that Democrats are playing politics. 
"'111e DFI. feels they are going to use this in the next election. They are calling for as many votes as possi­ble ... to that end," said House Majority Leader Connie Levi. 
u•est-central Minnesota. He led 
~­~ 
Cockroaches bug representative 
r 
I' 
A."'sodated Press 

WASHINGTON Rep. Silvio 
r 
Conte, hugged about cockroaches marching "one trillion strong" through the halls of Congress, said yestcrday hc wants to cnlist Presi­dcnt Rcagan in a war against thc 
r 
roach "so we can squash one for the

r 
Gippcr." "I call it thc Come-Crush-a­

~ 
Cockroach Campaign," said the Mas­sachusets Republican, climbing into white exterminator's coveralls dotted with large plastic insects to pose for photograph~ on the marble: steps of the House of Representa­tives. 
Hc clutchcd a commercial bug spray canister in one hand and two yellow fly swattcrs in the other and positioncd himsclf bctween two 

giant photo blowups of the common roach, one shown climbing over a cucumber. the other crowning a slice ofcheese. 
Conic announced Shulton Inc., a "roach busting" company, has donated :\S,OOO roach traps to the firm that is charged with the anti­roach campaign on Capitol Hill. 
He made no secret of the fact that Shulton Inc. is a constituent, based in his congressional district. 
"l1lis thing is deadly," he said of the product. "The roaches smell the scent inside and they just have to crawl in. They never come out. It's better than the MX missile." 
Other commcrical roach fighters had been attracted to thc Capitol steps and tried to interest Conte in their wares and in a cockroach sym­
posium being held in a Washington 
hotel. 

"In my .27 years down here I've run into all kinds of cockroaches in and around the Capitol," Conte said. "Whcn I came to Congress in 19S8 my supporters gave me a warning. They said 'Silvio, look out for your­self down there · in the halls of Congress, there are a hunch of old cockroaches lurking there.' And you know. they were right." 
"I hope everyone will JOin m, said Conte. "I even want to appeal to the president. I am certain that Presi­dent Reagan wants to gct rid of as many troublesome cockroaches that run around the halls of Congress as possible. 
"So please join me in this war on Capitol cockroaches and squash one for the Gipper." 
Marine convicted of 'slashing' daughter 
Associated Press 
PARRIS ISLAND -A Marine gun­nery scrgcant convicted ofthc slash­ing murder of his I 1-month-old daughtl·r wa.~ sentenced to death, dcmoted to private and deprivcd of pay by a military court on yesterday dcspite his tcarful statement of remorse. 
Attorneys ti>r .\-Iarine Gunnery Sgt. Melvin Turner Jr. argued during the trial that he wa.~ cmotionally dis­traught at the time of the slaying bc-
Concert 
continuedfrom page 1 
send their reps to ND, they realize 
the attitude that prevails.'' 
"Whcn they come here," Gioffre continued, " I want them to see we appreciate this concert. Wc earned it, we dl·scrvc it. I don't understand why we can't say thank you. They'rc thanking us for what we've done and we're not accepting it." 
Gioffre wa~ referring to thc Inside Column which appeared yesterday in 'J11e Observer. The article sugges­ted that the student body respond to the M'IV offering of pcrformer Tommy Shaw hy turning down the nmcert and donating the money used to produce the show to the fight against MS. 
"It's the biggest blow to all the en­thusiasm that we have built through­out the last two months," Gioffre said of the column. "The money is at MS already. His concert was some­thing above and beyond." 
"I assumed that the NO/SMC com­munity , in addition to myself and the committee, raised this !22,000 

causc of his wife's threat to !cave 
him. 
Prior to closing argumcnts Tues­day, Turner stood at the defense table with tears running down his face while he addressed members of the court. 
"I just want to say I loved my daughter very much and that I wanted a full family life," he said. "I wanted to watch her grow, see her accomplish things and be proud of her. I loved my baby. I'm sorry." 
An I !-member military court returned the sentence after 9S 
for MS. I viewed the concert as a reward for all our hard work," Gioffre stated. "Since Tommy Shaw receives no money for this and every penny raised goes toMS, Isee no rea­son why a suggestion to give up the concert was made." She added that if the conccrt werc turned down by Notre Dame, it would be awarded to Marquettc. 
Asked about initial indications from MTV that the winner's concert would be a "Top Five" act, Gioffrc responded, "We were told that it was going to be a Top Five act. When we ~poke with New York, they sent out bids to artists who they thought would suffice. Some of the bids were to popular artists and that's who we thought would come." 
Gioffre added,"They sent out bids to Bruce( Springsteen), Madonna, l11c Fixx, John Cafferty, to artists they knew were affiliated with charity performances.'' 
Asked if ND Millions Against MS had becn treated to the classic bait and switch, Gioffre responded, "MTV didn't screw us over. They ac­cepted the best bid that was returned. I'm sure that MlV and MS 

AP Pho10

Farm marchers 
The Ret'. jesse jackson, in the center wearing a thousand demonstrators in support of economi· cap, carries one of ten white crosses symbolizing cat~v hard pressed fanners in Glenu•ood, Min­fanners u•ho hat•e committed suicide recently in nesota. 
minutes of delibcration. Thc Marine's .21-year-old wife, Dena, hid her face in her hands and sobbed as the jury announccd its decision. 
"J11e la.~t person to he executed by the military was Army P\·t.John Ben­nett, who was hanged at Fort J.cavcnworth, Kan., in 1961, said Capt. Keith Oliver, a base spoke~­man. 
Turncr, 38, stood rigid, his face expressionless, as military police of­ficers placed him in handcuffs and led him from the crowded court­room after the sentence was read. 
hoped for the most popular musician they could because that would draw the most people to the contest next year." 
Willis was angry about the con­tent of yesterday's Inside Column. He said, "You work for three or four months on something and you win. I don't see how anyone else could he anything hut happy." 
Both Gioffre and Willis hope that the concert will be appreciated and enjoyed by the campus community. 
Willis said, "We are just so happy that we won. When cverything is said and done and the Tommy Shaw stuff blows over, the world will know that ND did its best." 
'J11e Shaw concert will fall on the Saturday of An Tostal Weekt:nd, the traditional Notre Dame spring fes­tival. 
Kendra Erven, vice chairperson of the I98S An Tostal Committee, was optlmtstlc about the concert. "Actually people are real happy," she said. " They're glad that we won. The Saturday night dance (of An Tostal) is after the concert. It's not a problem for us. It's another event to add to a weekend full of events that students are going to enjoy.'' 
more tht.in a 


It's nevertoo late to become a bronze God orGoddess! 
Deepen that Spring Break tan. Call us at 277-7026 
1M-HAWA1i'AN 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 





6502 Grape Road (219) 277-2400 
SAVE ON CONTACT LENSES! 
$49 SPHERICAL SPHERICAL
$9 9 

DAILY WEAR EXTENDED WEAR SOFT LENSES SOFT LENSES 
OOer includes trial wearing plan. Examination &care kit not mcluded. Offer good on initial pair only w/Village Optical prescription. Expires 5/11 Vdlage Optical 
25% off 
all sunglasses 

I -Bausch & Lomb 
I 
-Ray Ban
I 
-Logo Paris, etc.
I I Expires 5/11

,--------------------------­
1 SAVE ON EYEGLASSES 
I I 

I 20% 1st complete pair of
I 
prescription eyeglasses 
I off
I I I 
\ 

...~ .
The Observer ' ..... Wednesday, April3, 1985-page 5 
.r--

Prokcution far from conviction in f1hilippine assassination trial 

AP Photo

"Singing Nun" dies 
jeanine Deckers, the guitar-playing "Singing Nun" who won u•orldu•ide fame more than 20 years ago with her song "Dominique" committed suicide along with a friend over the u•eekend at the home they shared in Wavre, Belgium, the Belgium Neu•s Agen9• reported Monday. 
BACKSTAGE 
Every Wednesday 
college graduate a valuable edge in the job market. 
Entry-ll:vel positions in the Chicago area pay as much as SIZ.OOO to Sl5,000-and some paralegals are now earning as much as S3Z.OOO. 
It takes just three months ofdaytime study (six months in the evening) to prepare for a career as a la\\ryer's Assistant. The program at Roosevelt llniversity is the largest A.B.A.· approved program in Illinois, and its record of graduate employment assistance is the best there is. 
RECRUITER ON CAMPUS APRIL 11 
FOR INFORMATION AND A FREE BROCHURE CALL (312) 341·3882 OR MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY! 
} 

Associated ~ess 
Mtn"l,HLA, Philippines -Early court 
· ~ulings, the failure of key witnesses to appear, and much of the tes­timony in the Benigno Aquino assas­sination trial have so far favored the defense. After five weeks and 46 witnesses, the prosecution has failed to un­cover a significant new fact against Armed Forces ChiefGen. Fabian Ver or the other 25 defendants. Much of the evidence uncovered by a fact-finding board that recom­mended the indictments has en­tered the court record without being presented in open trial The defense, invoking rights against self­incrimination, has filed motions to exclude the volumes of testimony by the accused themselves. Prosecutors say they are still confident ofbuilding a strongcase of military conspiracy in the Aug. 21, 1983 double murder of top opposi­tion leader Aquino and Rolando Gal­man, the man the military said killed him. Only one of the defendants is a civilian. But Chief Pros_ecutor Manuel Her­rera complains the trial has been going at a "dizzying tempo" and protested last week that prosecutors have been subject to "warnings, reprimands and contempt proceed­ings as compared to the nil situation for the defense." The court has ruled favorably on 
defense motions to drop the name of Ver from the case's official title, to keep accused soldiers not entitled to bail under military custody instead of in civilian jails and not to require the accused to be present at every stage of the triaL 
Neither Herrera nor any of the government prosecutors took part in the fact-finding investigation, while the counsel for most of the military defendants, Rodolfo Jimenez, played a key role, cross­examining most of the board's 200 witnesses on behalfofthe military. 
Public interest has waned in the trial if not in the assassination of the man many Filipinos thought was most likely to end President Fer­dinand Marcos' 19-year rule. The charismatic Aquino was killed with a single bullet in the back of the head as soldiers escorted him off a plane after three years' voluntary U.S. exile. 
Although trial sessions are crowded, the courtroom is tiny and only a few spectators squeeze in among foreign and local reporters and the U.S. embassy representative. Most taxicab drivers don't even know the location ofthe three-judge Sandiganbayan Court, which is hold­ing what opposition newspapers once billed as the "trial of the cen­tury." 
Ver and two other defendants are free on bail, while 23 ofthe accused remain under the custody of their 
Lawyer's Assistant Program 430 S. Michigan Ave. 
MEN'S AND WOMt:N•S UNDERGRAD, GRAD AND FAC-STAFF 
Chicago. Ill. 60605 
-~ 

FIRST PLACE TROPHIES IN EACH DIVISION 
In coopenuion with 
•

The NalionaJ Cen:c:r for Paralegal Training 
TRAFFIC CONTROLLED 
Please send me a copy of !he Roosevelt 
AID STATIONS
Lawyer's Assistant Program catalog. 
07 

SPLITS GIVEN AT EVERY MILE
I am interested in the D Chicago or 
DArlington Heights location. 
FOUR DOLLAR ENTRY FEE 
Name 
Addr~ss 
(.j. 
Slate: z· 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE APRIL 12 
Home Phone 
Approved for VA and Ill. Scare 
ATTHEACC
Guaranteed loans 
Roo.ISC'''l';l \ ·m··~n .&dm11S .&II \lulknL' on 1hc b.ASt11 ul u"Mhv1du.&l ml'nl .&lUI w1lhou1 negud 10 racr ~.:otor.""' or "F 
military commanders. The court has yet to rule on a motion by private prosecutor Lupino Lazaro. who represents the Galman family, that the court reconsider its earlier 
ruling and put the accused in civilian jails. 
"The military custody is to ensure that none of them will break," said lawyer Andres Narvasa, who was chief counsel for the fact-finding board's 10-month probe. 
The court has had to order a nationwide search for four missing eyewitnesses who are considered important to the case. Each of the four indicated Aquino was shot on an airport stairway where only a sol­dier could have pulled the trigger. 
One witness told the court every­thing he said to the fact-finding board linking soldiers to the killing was "rumor and gossip." 
Another, Galman's stepdaughter, Roberta Masibay, 16, was withdrawn at the last minute because she said she was changing testimony involv­
,
ing Ver and two other defendants. 
,
Aviation chief Brig. Gen. Luther Custodio heads a list of 17 defen­~
,
dants accused as principal con­spirators. Ver, Brig. Gen. Prospero Olivas and six other soldiers are charged as accessories. The lone ci­

1 vilian is an alleged accomplice. Pos­sible sentences range from 40 years in prison for a convicted accessory to death for a principal conspirator. 
Prosecutions 
stopped, says Jewish group 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-More than 30 Baltic and Ukrainian emigre groups have stepped up a campaign to thwart the Justice Departmen~'s investigation of Nazi collaborators, World Jewish Congress officials charged yester­day. 
The organization's investigation disclosed "a widespread campaign, fraught with anti-Semitism, to derail the government's pursuit of war criminals," said Kalman Sultanik, vice president oftheJewish group. 
"The campaign has intensified greatly in the last six months," said Eli Rosenbaum, a consultant to the Jewish Congress and former Justice Department lawyer. 
"These are not fringe groups, 
these are mainstream groups with 
hundreds of thousands of mem­
bers," said Elan Steinberg, theJewish 
group's spokesman. 
The charges were denied by 
members of the Lithuanian and Uk­
rainian communities, who said op­
position to the Justice Department 
effort focused on its use ofevidence 
provided by the Soviet Union. 
Among the activities alleged in 
the congress' report: 
-lobbying with White House aides and other top federal officials for a statute of limitations on war crimes prosecutions; elimination of the Of­fice of Special Investigations, the Justice Department agency which investigates suspected Nazi col­laborators; and repeal of the 1978 law allowing deportation of Nazi war criminals. 
-deceiving members ofCongress into helping alleged war criminals. In January, Sen. Alfonse D'Amato said he was duped into writing a let­ter ofsupport for a Long Island man facing deportation for concealing his alleged role in the executions of 
I,000 people in a Nazi concentra­
tioncamp. 
-urging, primarily in newspaper ads and articles, potential witnesses not to cooperate with OSI inves­tigators. 

Imports $1.00 
Tomorrow Night: 50¢ cocktails 8-11 pm 
No cover with this ad 
corner of Main and Mishawaka 
Summer Special Rates 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683-1959 

•VERY 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX 2 Y2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
"In my job at the Pint National Bank ofChicago, I am constantly using the knowledge acquired
LAWYER'S 

through my paralegal training at Roosevelt." -Ann BriO Ettolel, Willi and !IUIII Graduate
ASSISTANT: AGROWTH CAREER FOR THE SO's 

Training as a Lawyer's Assistant can give today's 'RooSEVEi:i"UN'"IVEisTrr--­
Thanks to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
community  for  your  support  for  the  
Women's  Care  Center  and  your  overall  
respect for life.  Keep  a  special place in  

your heart for the unborn during this truly special week and all throughout the year. 
HAPPY EASTER!! 
Sponsored by ND/SMC Right to Life 
IRISH SPRING RUNS 
SATURDAY APRIL 20 
NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

TWO RACES 

IRISH SPRING SIX 11:00 AM. IRISH SPRING THREE -10:00 AM. 


T-SHIRTS AWARDED TO ALL FINISHERS Sill DIVISIONS: 
I 
f 
...___, . 

View~_0_1_._n_t___-.;:~-·~~_____
w_e_dn-es-da-y,-Ap-ri-13_, l-98_5_p_ag_e 6 
P.O. Box Q 
Money raised to fight MS, not win concert 
Dear Editor: 

We and our commil!ee would like to clarify some misunderstood facts as in yesterday's ar­ticle on the MTV-MS conn·rt. 
The money that the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community has raised through social events goes entirely to the National MS foun­dation in Nt·w York. The concert is awarded to the school that raises the most money per capita and is not paid for with any money raised for MS. The performerdonates his time. 
MTV did inform us that we would receive a "top" a<.·t, hut never was a definite name given. We had hoped that free social event would be appreciated, not ridiculed. 
Our committee had also hoped to provide social activities for the campus during our two-month campaign. The money "given" to MS was a donation in exchange for entertain­ment and prizes and in most cases was not a direct handout. We tried our best to create some fun along the way. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's raised $22,676 for multiple sclerosis. As co­chairmen, our time was directed toward raising money-notfor u•inning the MTV con­cert. We thought such a reward would be something everyone on campus would enjoy. Yesterday, we were notified that we raised $300 more than Marquette, our closest com­petitor. Our $3.31 per capita was enough for us to win! 
r To relinquish rights to this concert would merdy he a rejection of New York's attempt to show us its appreciation.
r 
Aline Gioffre' r Vince Willis MS Drive co-chairmen
r 
r 
Pettifer's conception 
r 
of history warped 
~ 
Dear Editor: 

f 
Ann Pettifer offered an interesting theory about the human race in her March 14 View­
point editorial. Evidently history is not the conflict hetwccn humanity and sin as the
~ 
Christians tell us, nor was Marx right when he claimed it as the result of an economic process. Rather, history is simply the struggle between the "ohdurate, silly, insecure" male­responsible for "all that is destructive in our world, from nuclear weaponry to capitalist pillagt·"-and the "wilely, <.'Ulturally evolying" female, who stands against repression, fas­cism, the Roman Catholic Church and so on. 
Obviously Pettifcr drew this conclusion 
l r from unimpeachahle evidence. First, she used an anonymously mailed "hard-core por­nographic picture" to condemn the male gender in general. Then she exposed the Cat-
holies as the "crazy, reactionary" fascists they all arc hy citing Church opposition to a group of nuns, puhlicly supporting ahortion. Some­how this oppositiOn also conclusively demonstrates that the Church is the "laughing stock ofcivilized society" and moreover docs not conform to the "ethic of stewardship which Jesus preached," though what killing bahies has to do with an "ethic of steward­ship" seems slightly unclear. 
In any case, Pettifer has fortunately found the solution for this historical scandal in which hy some cruel irony offate the male has reduced the female to "powerlessness." The beauty of it is that kindness, decency and moral strength have nothing to do with it. Everything, as it turns out, is ineluctahly de­termined by evolution (instead of economics as Marx thought). As a result, as Pcttifer puts it, "we can expect that the chest-beating male will be eliminated from the gene-pool through a sexual deadend" as the female "selects a more humane sort of chap." Thus, by choosing only to "copulate with the sociable males," females will cleanse the race of its impure "male primate characteristics" and thus phase out all inferior people. Further­more, by continuing to purify the race, Pet­tifer says, all of history's prohlcms will be completely solved. And who knows, mayhe someday, Pettifcr claims, we will be able to perfect the ultimate humanity-a new breed of ideal men and women all sharing in a glorious New Order, in which all reactionary non­sense, such as Catholic values, is destroyed once and for all. 
Shall we call this ultimate goal of evolution the Master Race? 
Christopherju/ka Stanford Hall 
Hesburgh's sermon and Mass followed set time 
DearEditor: 

Just for the record, The Observer's com­ments about Father Hesburgh's sermon and the length of NBC's telecast of the Palm Sun­day liturgy were erroneous. When the Mass was rehearsed Saturday, it took less time than the original script had estimated. Father Hes­burgh was asked to lengthen his homily from four and a half to nine and a half minutes; as it was, he talked for about nine minutes. It was always intended that the telecast end at the beginning of communion. It was deemed the hest solution to the problem of fitting a 7S minute liturgy telecast live into an hour's time slot. 
Richard Conklin Asst. Vice President University Relations 

Q: What do you call an Ethiopian with bucked teeth? A: A rake. 
Now granted, graffiti on desks here at Notre Dame is not a major problem, but sitting down and seeing this on my desk was enough to make me take the time to write a few thoughts concerning our response to the famine condi­tions in Africa. I am not claiming that this at­tempt at humor in any way summarizes a prevailing apathetic mentality here on camus. 
Bill Jordan 
guest column 

Nor am I suggesting that we should unite as a 
community and put together a record album 
to raise funds for the nameless faces. This joke, 
however tasteless, does demonstrate how dis­
tant the problem of starving people is to our 
daily lives. The sense of hopelessness in res­
ponding to the problem makes it easier to ra­
tionalize away to the point where such a joke 
can even ease one's conscience a bit. 
Why can't we stop such mass starvation? This seems to be the question which needs to he addressed. I am not going to fill up a whole page of The Observer trying to answer this question. People do not have the time to read such a long article. Therein lies.the first ele­ment to the answer: time. We are all busy people with our own personal lives. Most ofus are students who may be very busy. Realisti­. cally, for the most part, we are relatively care­free compared to adults who must often juggle spouse, family and work responsibili­ties every day. When can good-hearted people take time to respond to such human tragedy? 
The answer to that must come from each indi­vidual.! guarantee men and women like Bruce Springsteen, Huey Lewis, Stevie Wonder and Diana Ross are much busier than most of the people on this campus, but they were able to drop difference and come together in sym­bolic unity to make a statement. Granted, we may not he able to raise as much money as they can, but the real answer lies in human concern and political will. Solutions will be part of the distant future, hut the long term developmental help which is needed must be grounded in such human concern and politi­cal will. We had the political will to reach the moon and now we are flying around in space shuttles. My assertion here is that the hunger issue goes beyond the bounds of being just another social justice issue. Completely inno­cent people are being born to die and we have knowledge of it. Anti-abortion proponents should agree that this is just as reprehensible as abortion, while pro-choice advocates have no criterion to say there is a choice once an African is born. 
A response seems appropriate when the need is so clearcut. Mayhe we, as a university, can drop differences over issues like ahortion and drinking policies, and find the time to unite a little in response to the ongoing death of thousands. 
The opportunities to do so will be availahle in the coming month and a half. First there will be a !OK CROP Walk-Run on April 14. There will also be a RASTA concert and an Ethiopian Ball. I'm not big on giving hyped sales pitches­the people are out there and the concern is there. Do something about it. 
Bill jordan is a senior government and Italian major at Notre Dame. 

Quote of the day 
"The purpose oflife, is 
to love it, to taste expe­
rience to the utmost, to reach out eagerly and without fear for newer and richer ex­perience." 
-EleanorRoosevelt 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
(219) 239-5J.{J3 
fdrror rn Chttd Sarah E Ham1lton Busmess Manager Oav•ij Sleor,en ':,.. 
Managrng Edt for Amy Stephan AdverfiSing Manager Anne Cu•11gar
Th~ Observer IS the Independent newpaper published by the students of the 
News Edrror Ke1th Hamson Jr Conrrolfer Bill HIQ11ducneo
Untverstty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College It does not necessarily 
News Edrror Dan McCullough Sysrems Ma~ager Mark B Jc ''"50'
reflect the poltctes of the admintstratton of e1ther tnstttut/On The news is reported as 
Satnr Mary's E•ecurrve Edrror Theresa Guanno Producflon Manager JN1n A Mf'n~c-. 
accurately and as ObJeCtively as posstble. Unstgned edttortals represent the op1n1on 
Sporrs Edrror Jeff Blumb of a maJOnty of the Edttonal Board. Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column Mary Healy
Accenr Ed>for present the vtews of thelf authors Column space IS a~ailable to all members of tt1e Vrewpotnr Edt for Joe Mcrphy communtty and the free express/On of varymg optntons on campus. through letters. Phorography Edrror Pete1 C Laches 1s encouraged Copy Chrer Frank L1p0 Founded November 3, 1966 

Accent 
Wednesday, April 3, 1985 -page 7 
'CATS':pur-r-rfect chance to eye a winner 

Back fro111 a passage to India 
radiolysis spectascopy offree radi­
Patti Tripathi 
T
cals, computerized instrumentation features staff writer in chemical experiments, in situ Electron Spin Resonance (E.S.R) he sights, smells and culture of tion Laboratory, Schuler estabiisht:L studies of transient free radicals and India are somethings many of us one of the foremost centers of E.S.R. studies ofacid-base equilibria. can only imagine, or at absorb while modern research in the area of Schuler also helped to organize a watching "A Passage To India." Dr. radiation chemistry, photoc­national seminar on "Advances in Robert H. Schuler, director of Radi­hemistry, pulse radiolysis, flash Photochemistry and Application" ation Labrotory, recently returned photolysis, lasers, and theoretical while in India. from India where he spent six chemistry. Besides his academic assign­weeks as Sir C.V. Raman endow­Sir Lawrence W. Bragg, a well­ments, Schuler traveled to several ment professor. known British physicist and foun­places and got a first hand informa­
Sir C.V. Raman was a well known der of crystallography, was first to tion about social, economic and physicist for his disclosure that light accept the endowed Sir C.V. Raman political aspects ofIndia. Madras, scattered by any medium contains chair in 1963. Linus Pauling, where he spent most of his stay in frequencies differing from that of recepient of two nobel prizes, was India, is a city located in the soqth­the incident light by amounts the first chemist to receive this ern part of India. The heavily pop­which are characteristic of the award in 1966. Schuler is the fifth ulated city had "large amount of scattering medium. In 1930, he chemist to receive the honor. green park area," said Schuler. received the Nobel prize in physics Schuler spent one month with Other scientific institutes that for his works on the diffusion of the department of inorganic Schuler visited were in Bombay and light and for discovery in 1928 of chemistry, University of Madras, Banglore. He saw many temples and the effect which is named after him. where he was to "expose the stu­enjoyed the "quite spicy and heav­Raman became the director of the dents and staff of the university ily favored food." Raman Research institute at department and affiliated colleges According to Schuler the cities Banglore in 194 7. Madras, a state in in Madras to some of the frontier were even more crowded than he India where Raman was horn, estab­areas in chemistry." Aseries of had expected. "I had not lished an endowment chair in lectures on time resolved studies of recognized the extreme poverty in physical and life sciences to honor transient radicals were presented some instances." its native son. by Schuler. The series ofsix "There did not seem to be too 
This prestigious invitation was lectures covered topics such as much political unrest," commented 
-

extended to Schuler for his out­Raman Spectascopy of transient free Schuler referring to the much standing research in radiation radical, application of time resolved publicized recent chaos in the chemistry. As director of the Radia-Raman Spectascopy. pulse Indian government. 
The Observer !Nicholas Griffiu 

Dr. Robert Schuler taught in India for six weeks and absorbed the culture. 

transported to the top of the preos­cenium and dissapears before the audience. During the show's final song "The Ad-Dressing ofThe Cats," Deuteronomy's tire is suspended and moves to the center of the stage. 
The lighting and the sound in "Cats" is also a wonder. Costumes light up in red and green neon; eyes of the Cats blink as they terrorize helpless theater patrons. The en­trance of Macavity is signaled by flashing lights and sirens, all of which can can be heard clearly from speakers spread throughtout the theater. 
Choreographer Gillian Lynne, winner of the SWET award for her choreography of Cats (London's equivalent of the Tony) sees to it th:::t Cats is a show that involves dance as much as it involves music. Her involved choreography in­cludes evertyhing from the jazzy dance of the Mungojerrie and Rumpleteazer cats to to the amazing ballet of Mr. Mistofolees. Also impressive is the tap dance for "The Old Gumbie Cat" and the intricate dance that the whole company takes part in during "Skimbleshanks." 
Although the play is called "Cats," the show it is ultimately about people. Characters, through diversity of costume and make up represent people we know -per­haps ourselves. "Cats" is also about accepting the unaccepted ( Grizabella ), the glories and the sadness oflife (Gus) and death "cats-Now and Forever" is the 

phrase that is used to ad­vertise the musical "Cats" in the Broadway theatre directory ofThe New York Times. "Cats" will prob­ably run forever, but, as for now, Andrew Llyod Weber's British import will call Chicago's Shubert Theatrt: home for the next nine months. Weber, whose musical composition credits include "Joseph and The Amazing Tech­nicolor Dreamcoat," "Jesus Christ Superstar," "Evita," and his newest "Starlight Express" adapted "Cats" from T.S. Eliot's "Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats." The play tells about Eliot's cats, which, a~ Old Deuteronomy notes in show's final song, are just like people. 
"Cat's" 26 cast members perform 22 songs by the curtain's close. Most songs tell about different types ofcats. For example, there's the Rum Tug Tugger cat, an ob­noxious cat whose mannerisms and singing are bold. Grizabella, the glamour cat, is the victim ofher own faded beauty. Her song "Memory" is one of the most touch­ing and powerful songs in the show. Gus, whose real name is Asparagus, is the theater cat who longs for the spotlight that he recieved when he was younger. Macavity is the mis-
Stephen Thomas 
Theater review 


chevious cat and Deuteronomy, the oldest and wisest of the cats. Deuteronomy sits on a suspended tire figuratively ruling over the other cats in the junkyard. 
You learn quickly not to be suprised with anything that hap­pens in "Cats." The magic of the show starts when you enter the theater. The set of"Cats" is one of the most detailed and extensive I've seen in the theater. Multi colored lights intertwined in the set make their way to the second mezzanine of the Shubert. The set, a highly detailed ionion ofcollection of "junk" can be found on the stage as well as on the walls of the theater. Patrons in the box seats are literally encompassed by the set of"Cats." At the base of the stage, large pipes through which smoke is emitted during the show extend into the orchestra. 
The set is only the beginning of the complexity of "Cats." Director Trevor Nunn, who won the 1983 Tony for his direction of"Cats" is brilliant in working the characters into the set. When Gus sings of his past glories during "Growltiger's Last Stand," the back of the set folds out to create and becomes the deck of a ship. During "The Journey To The Heavyside Layer," Grizabella is ("The Journey to The Heavyside Layer.") 
Before seeing Cats it is recom­mended that you listen to the soundtrack, ifpossible. The fast pace of the play and it's multitude ofcharacters can be confusing if you go to theater unfamiliar with the play. Ifyou're unable to make it before the end of the semester, 
there's always next year. Try to catch it now, although it will prob­ably be around "forever." 
The junior class is sponsoring a trip to the Windy City on Saturday, April 13 · for the matinee perfor­mance of"Cats," followed by an eve­ning on Rush Street. The S35 tickets include admission and bus transpor­tation. For information, call Dan McManus at 1787. 

r-~~------------------------------------------------~----------------~--------~--------------------------------­
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame track team will compete 
against Michigan State and Indiana on Saturday in Bloomington.-The Obsen•er 
The Notre Dame golf team will participate in 
the Purdue Invitational this Friday, Saturday and Sunday in West 
l.afayelte. -The Obsen•er 

The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
tonight at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse. All members should attend.­
The Obsen•er 

An Tostal mud volleyball signups will be hetd 
today and tomorrow from 3 p.m. to c; p.m. in the An Tostal office in LaFortune. Each team must consist of at least seven players, two of whom must be women. For more information, call Janet Tabit at 277-3967 or Matt Corrigan at 283-246<;.-The Obsert•er 
An Tostal ultimate frisbee signups will be held 
tonight in the lobby of LaFortune from ~:-~0 p.m. to 9 p.m. Rosters of ten players and their ID numbers will be accepted for the tourna­ment, which begins Thursday, April I I. -The Obsert•er 
An Tostal innertube water polosignups wm 
be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Hall lobby. A S7 registration fee will be collected with team rosters. -The Obsen•er 
Cheerleading applications are due by c; p.m. tomorrou• in the basketball office inside Gate I of the ACC. · The Obsen•er 
Anyone interested in refereeing for 
Bookstore Basketball should come to a meeting tomorrow at 4:30 
p.m. in the Football Auditorium at the ACC. For more information, call Mike Dunn at the NVA office ( 239·6100). ·The Obsen•er 
Classifieds 
I 

Wednesday, April 3, 1985-page 8 
Applications are being taken for the position 
of president of the Saint Mary's College Athletic Council for the 198';-86 school year. Applications can be picked up now at the An· gela Athletic Facility and must he returned by tomorrow. All inter­ested athletes are encouraged to apply. -The Obsert•er 
Several top amateur wrestlers from the 
United States and japan will participate in an international challenge match tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the ACC. Some Olympians and NCAA champions will compete, including Irish assistant coach John Azevedo, the NCAA ';7 kg. champ. Tickets are available now at the Gate I 0 ticket office of the ACC at sc; for adults and S3 for students 18 and under. · The Obsen•er 
An interhalllacrosse league is being formed 
by NVA. The deadline for entries is Monday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. ·The Obsen•er 
The Irish Spring Runs, road races ofsix and three miles, will be held by NVA on Saturday, April 20. T-shirts will be awarded to all finishers, and a trophy will_ be awarded to the top finisher in each of the t1ve divisions: men's undergraduate, women's undergraduate, men's graduate, women's graduate, and faculty and staff. An entry fee of 54 is due by Friday, April I 2, in the NVA office .. 
The Obsen•er 

An interhall tennis tournament will he 
held by NVA on Saturday, April 20. Each hall may enter two singles players and two doubles teams; no player may play both singles and doubles. Team rosters for the single-elimination tournament are due by Friday, April 12, in the NVA office.· The Obsen•er 
lnterhall baseball umpires are being sought 
by NVA. Anyone who is interested may fill out an application at the NVA office. · The Obsen'er 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be dearly written.. The Observer 
Tennis team beats Butler; record at 10-4 
By MIKE CARNEY 
Spo,.ts Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis 
team raised its season record to I0-4 
with an an impressive victory over 
the Bulldogs of Butler University at 
the Courtney Tennis Center yester­
day. 
Not only did the Irish win all nine matches, but also they did so with· out losing a set. The match provided the Irish with a chance to fine-tune their games as they prepare for tough matches with Indiana tomor­row and Ohio State on Saturday. 
In singles competition, Irish cap· tain Joe Nelligan, playing the No. I spot, defeated Joe Gentry, 6-1. 6-I. "Ibe No. 2 spot proved to he the closest match as Notre Dame's Mike Gibbons won a tie-breaker in the first set and then went on to heat Bob Klumpp, 7-6, 6-2. 
Freshman sensation Dan Walsh easily dispatched Mark Kobren at the No. 3 spot, 6-I, 6-0. Dave Obert had little trouble taking the No. 4 match from jeff Hughes, 6-2, 6-2. At the No. c; position, Tom Grier whitewashed Bryant Darner, 6-0, 6­
0. Finally, rounding out the Irish sweep at the No. 6 seed, Paul Daggs did not lose a game as he blanked Kevin Hickman, 6-0, 6-0. 
The inexperieced doubles teams. none of which has played together before this season, continued to show improvement. The team of Gibbons and Walsh proved to be too tough for the Bulldogs as they coasted to a 6-I, 6-2 victory over Klumpp and Kobren. 

The Ohsert•er Notrt: Danu· otficc, lotatcd on tht: third floor of l.al·onum· S!Uderu Ccntt·r. anTpt~ dassilkd advnthin!( from<) a.m. until·! p.m.. ,\1ond;l\ through l·riday 1'he Ohserr·er Saint Mary's offin·. locatt·d on till· third floor of llaggar Colll-ge Ccntn. anTpts da"ifit:ds from 12:.~0 p.m until -~p.m .. \1on· da)· though Frida1· Deadline lilf ne.x1-da1· cla.•.•itkds is -~ p 111. All classilkd., must ht· prt·paid. t·ithcr in person or h1 mail <.harge is I 0 cents pn !ht: t·harat·· t.:rs a dav. 
Whoever left me in charge of the1r pearls ATTENTION JUNIORS MOONCHILDREN are comtngl Reserve JEFF HERMAN--Just wanted to tell you at lhe last Drllon SYR. please call me to reservations are still available for the April 18, 19 and/or 201h and check them how much I enjoyed talkrng wrth you the
NOTICES WANTED
claim. Eric Schneeman 3744 CHICAGO ROADTRIP out 1n Washrngton Hall. olher day, although I doubt you remember on April13 it. Hope you enjoy your Easter break TYPING CALL CHRIS 234·8997 found: one basketball call jrm 1747 Cat• tix only $35 BUS TO O'HARE! When? 3 pm on Apt~l4 Love, Your Secret Admtrer. Cubblee tix only $17 How much? $10. Who's sponsot~ng if? TYPING AVAilABLE "an evening of fun, baseball, culture and THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD. of HAPPY BIRTHDAY, JOHN GISLESON! I 
LOST: Gold bracelet wrth engraved rnl· 287-4082 trals ASB. Even 11 these are your in111als, Ride Needed To M..Hchuaett• debauchery in the Windy Crty"' call Dan course. Bnng your money to The Record know it's not unt1l Sat., but smce I won't be too, this bracelet was a grit and l"d Help me, I stayed here lor spring break nowat1787 Store as soon as posstble. Seats are on a · here, have a good time (but not too good). REALLY llkellke to get 1t back. Call2998 and I must get out of South Bend before I 
first come. first serve basts Hope you wrn the beer hunt. Love, Cathy. WOADPAOCESSING AND TYPING 
go crazy!!!! Can leave at noon on Wed­ATIENTION JUNIORS!! Its ttme to plan272·8827 To whoever stole my den• m jacket from a nesday. Will share usual. Call Paul at for the SENIOR TRIP to the The 1mmoral, unethical. greedy. 
C. Vtew party Frr: I WANT MY GLASSES 2275. BAHAMAS.Deposits can be patd lrom man~pulative, devious cap•tallst pig from WORDPROCESSING BACK. I CAN'T DRIVE HOME WITHOUT NOW til 4/3 at First Sourse Travel FLORIDA FOR EASTER BREAK! Manchester, BRIAN BROUCEK, turns 22 277·6045 THEM. GIVE ME A BREAK. Call me up: Need rrde to St. Lours 4/4 Call4053 offices(Badin and Deccto). They accept Riders needed. Leaving lomorrow at loday. Happy Brrlhday, Bro. Blake 1436 all major credit cards.Depostts will be noon, coming back Tuesday night. Atder Needed to So. N.J. Leave Wed. taken •n LaFortune, 4/9·4/12(Tues-Fri) Call Mary att333. LISA G does it on t>Jue v1nyl TYPING night Call Bill1816 from 6:30·8:30pm.THINK BAHAMAS111 every night. 
Jltckle Bogg• To the person who left the pany at Tunle 684·87113 Creek Saturday ntghl (3/30) wearrng my Need rrde to Cleveland leavrng TALL, GOOD-LOOKING MALE WITH· 
Hey, all you country types! You be go~n·
Liz Clatborne demm jacket: It was a pretty Thurs.(4/4) of Easter Break. Call 4174. OUT A MUSTACHE SEEKS 
home for Easter break? I need a ride to
Need rrde to Chtcago O'Hare Thurs. AM GIRLFRIEND. MUST BE WELL· 4/4. Call2611 or 1029chilly night, but wrlh any luck 1"11 survive OMAHA, NEBRASKA and if I don't get rt I
Word Processmg · Call Andrea at 283· the pneumonia. And, s1nce sickness OPEN MIKE NIGHT AT THE GROOMED, QUIET AND ALSO WITH· 
may break out •n a Midwestern rash. I
3880 from 9:00am · 11 :00 pm. hasn'tlimshed me off yet. l"d like my coat CHAMELEON CLUB. LISTEN TO YOUR OUT A MUSTACHE. IF INTERESTED 
mJss my cow Molly! Please call Johnn1e at
NEED RIDERS TO WASH. DC FOR 2483 if you can help. I can leave Wednes­back. Please call Joan at 1292: if I don't FRIENDS OR PERFORM YOURSELF CALL NICK AT 1684. 
GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U make rt through, 1"11 willrt to you. EASTER. LEAVE THURS/RETURN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10. FROM 9·111N day'
repa!t) Also det~nquent tax property. Call MON. CALL JEFF 3859. THE CHAMELEON ROOM OF H.C.C. JIM TABOR CORE COURSE 805-687·6000 Ext GH-9834 lor informa­LOST: Vlvrtar lnstamatrc camera at CALL SMC STUDENT ACTIVITIES OR Player of the week: tiOn. Semor Formalin ballroom. II you picked it TONI AT 284·4068 FOR DETAILS. Tim Lyon•
LOST TRI-COLORED GOLD RING SAT. 
up by accident, please call Julie at 234· TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 RIDE NEEDED to DAYTON OH. Leave 
MARCH 30 ON N.D. CAMPUS SEN·
7319. MAXELL XL90'• Thurs pm. Call Kevin at 3024 TIMENTAL VALUE CALL 4060 MYRA 
10 for $22 
(SMCI

TYPING Term papers. r83umes. letters, Lost: The Torso of our mannequm This week only at Rock du Lac Records. manuscripts. Reasonable rates; p1ckup & (answers to Blanche). Last seen at River­first floor LaFortune. TOASTMASTERS 
THIS IS BILL.. CALL STARKIST THANKS delivery on campuses avarlable. Call Mrs vrew Lodge in Mrshawaka wearrng a pink ....,... 
FOR THE ROSE HAPPY EASTER 
Schultz between 5·10 pm 277·5134. sweater. Great Sentimental value. Please BUT DOES THE SOUP COME WITH Tomghi6:30pm
FOR SALE
call284·5518 with any information. POTATOES!! 223 Hayes Healy A prolest wrlltake place on Good Ft~day rn New Members Welcome front of the abortuary (near campus on St. 
A WE'RE FOOLS SALE AIDE NEEDED TO PITTSBURGH, PALouts--across Iron the St. Joe Medrcal Be smart' Sell your class books before the ALL APRIL FOOLS WEEK AREA
Center) !rom 7:30am-? SUPPORT LIFE!' LOST: BLUE ND BOOKBAG IMPOA· rush. Mon.·Fn between 12 and 4. Save$ MY MOM IS HAVING SURGERY
Maxelf XLII's: 10 for S22 
ANYTIME THE WEEK OF APRIL 1-5 
"God's greatest grit of all " TANT TO GET NOTEBOOKS BACK IM· on paperbacks. Fri: 3-6: 50/ off used: 20/ DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO MIL·
Limit two. We wtll beat any pnce! Rock du WILL SHARE EXPENSES
MEDIATELY Luggage tag wrth off new. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 So WALKIE THURS OR FRI. THANKS
Lac Record• first floor LaFortune CALL LINDA 284·5134 
Word Processrng and Typrng Resumes. BARNES-HIND corporate logo on it. Bend Ave. 233·2342 BETH at 1618 Letters. Papers. Documents Call 234· Everything inside has name, address, at 
CLASS OF "87 Junior Advtsory Board and 
2380 3136 on it. "Lost"' btwn. 1 0·1 0:45 AM MIKEK IS HETEROSEXUAL. 
Comm1tee applications are available 
Tues. April 2. in South Dining Hall. ISN'T HE?
NOW until Wed April 3 at the Student Ac­PLEASE CALL PSYCHO RIGHT AWAY
hello julie hello nancy BUS TO OHARE' When? Apt~l4 at 3pm. tivrties Office in the Ma1n Lobby of PUCKER UP and WATCH OUT' Krsser IS AT3136. SANKS. How much? $10. Who's sponsotlng it? coming! K•sser IS com~ng• K1sser IS com­
LaFortune. Applications due Wed at 5:00. am seekrng TRUTH and A THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD, of students welcome. GET ing! HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY. LAURA
London IN­VEGETARIAN HAS ANYONE FOUND MY UNCLE'S course. Br•ng your money to the Record VOLVED!! GRONEK!!! WWHOUGE1I can't believe 
PHYSICAL WATCH7?71still have not found my silver Store. Seats are sold on a f•rst come, f1rst 1congrats congrats congrats! to KATHY, it's finally here! Get out those Acutron watch that belonged to my Great· serve bas1s. NANETIE ANNE. MOREEN BP 'S CAAZY,CRAZY SOCKS and get wrld' Uncle. II you have by any chance dis· 277·3875 share usual NEW OFFICERS '85·86 NY, Chicago, and the yellow hot spot in covered it in a meltmg snowbank or 78 HORIZON, Power, Automatrc, New BP and I love you Quotes, no sleeps, llrnterested? Call232·0392 somethrng, Please call 3300 and ask lor Battery, Muffler. Well Ma•ntained. Low I WOULD JUST LIKE TO THANK THE CHRIST A-the deb-the hottest thing to hit shanng verses and general sillmess Paul. If you want money or my first born or Mrleage. BEST OFFER. 287-8603 GIRLS OF SECTION 2·B IN PW FOR Atlanta Since the lite-BE THE BELLE OF mean you Will utimately surrender to your 
ATHEIST Need t~de to DETROIT Area 4/4 JEFF 
anythmg just ask! THE BALL• Love, the Women not in Wh•te passionate nature. HAVE A BLAST' ­
SHOWING ME HOW FANTASTIC 
your hopptng alarm turner-offer -JEFF NOTRE DAME GIRLS REALLY ARE ED-Thanks for hstenmg on Fnday. DOMERS ARE FRIGID 
I 
Remember-1f you ever need someone to lend an ear. the Lew•s chapel IS always ATTENTION THERESE RYAN: l"ve seen open. too -BETH you at the bars, but only from alar. l"d like SORRY FRISKY 
,=~~~:~~-~~.~ I.____Fo_R_RE_N_T_____.I I.___P_ER_s_o_N_A_L_s___. P.S. 
to get to know you. but/ don't have a car . and about ma1n or soulh quad about 2 KJ: Mahr Maht. CJ. baked scrod. "the 
weeks before spnng break--heaps and NEED AN APARTMENT OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, boat . CAR SEATS'. beer on deck. llytng 
bunches of senttmentalvalue 1S aHached Summer Townhouse ava•lable for rent! CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., contacs. aerobtcs, matchmg dresses, Dave Wood and Mary Hen· Happy 20th Brrthday s Mark Peabody to It--please call Heather at 3763 11 you Call22751or •nlormatron. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Mamou ceilmg, and Toto, too I had a zei... ... CONGRATULATIONS ON THE and Joe lacopom x341 0 Gtve them a call have found It--thanks I blast' Thanks lor everything. -FN ENGAGEMENT.... GOoD LUCKI!!!! and mvite them out for a beer! Love, L.l.z 
l 
The Observer ·Wednesday, April3, 1985-page 9 
All four defensive coaches return for '85 season 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
The I985 football season will be one of new challenges and old rivalries for the Irish, as every new season is. 
Last year, the Irish were forced to make changes before the season started as they enlisted both new coaches and philosophies to replace a few that had left following the pre­vious season. 
This year, however. Irish head coach Gerry Faust is blessed with the good fortune ofhaving his entire coaching staffreturn basically intact. 
When the Irish are defending their goal, the II men on the field will once again be the responsibility of defensive coordinator Andy Christoff In his second year, Chris­toff is confident that the new system that he brought in a year ago will run more smoothly this year as the Irish were able to adjust to it well at the end of their last campaign. 
"We're going to get better at what we did last year," commented Chris­toff. "It was a new year for the players, last year, in the system. As one could see, there was an im­provement toward the end of the year when they got used to doing what they were supposed to be doing." 
Christoff joined the Irish coaching staff as defensive coordinator and secondary coach last year after an eight-year tour of duty with Stan­ford. While defensive coordinator for the Cardin;:ls, Christoff was re­sponsible for improving their over­all defense from a last-place ranking to a sixth-place ranking in the Pac 10, and for improving their pass defense from from a last-place ranking to a top ranking in that same conference. 
Christoff graduated from Idaho in 1967 after playing linebacker and defensive end for its program. Since then, he has coached at Idaho, New Mexico State, New Mexico, Oregon, and Stanford. 
*********************************** 
: Pre-Law Society Officer Applications :* Due by 10pm Tomorrow, April4 : ~ Return to Room 915 Grace : 
t*********************************l 
~~~~~~~~~.-...~.._.._..._...,... ...... ~._ 
t t· 
t WORRIES? QUESTIONS? t 1 CONCERNS? : 
COUNSELINE is an anonymous service with tapes on many subjects. Call and ask for tapes in your area of concern. 
L----------------­
t  t  
t  239-7793  t  
t  Mon-Thurs 4-12  Fri 4-8  :  

Great beaches, crystal-clear waters, incredible prices. 
OOH BaHaMaS! 
It's all waiting for you ' 1 
on Nassau/Paradise Island, CLASS OF 86 
Freeport/Grand Bahama, and 
The Family Islands-SENIOR TRIP 
The Abacos, Andros, Bimini, Eleuthera, and The Exumas. 
DEPOSITS CAN BE PAID
In The Bahamas, you never 
in 1st Source Travel Offices 
run out of things to do. 
on campus(Badin, Declo,Haggar) 
Until you want to. 
unti14/3. 

Can be paid by MC, VISA DEPOSITS will be collected 419-4112 (Tues-Fri) LaFortune 6:30-8:30pm Haggar 6:00-8:00pm 
Its BetterInThe Ha.Jilall~ 
THE EARLY.~BIRD... __.~ .  
Classes starting April14  
LSAT Call Days heninas I Weekends 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 ~~ (219) 272-4135 Educational Center  

This year, Christoff believes that the defense will be better prepared to face the opposition because of both last year's experienc-e in his new system and the fact that all four of the defensive coaches are return­ing to their roles ofa year ago. 
"One ofthe most important things in playing good defense is having continuity and experience," said Christoff. "We feel that these two things will be a tremendous carry­over from the year before. Just having the continuity and that expe-
Spring Football 
\\ '85 

~ 
rience in itselfshould make us a bet­ter team." 
Aiding Christoff in setting up the defense of the Irish goal will once again be linebacker coaches Bishop Harris and George Kelly and defen­sive line coach Rick Lantz. 
Harris joined the Notre Dame staff inJanuary of 1984 after four seasons at LSU were he coached the outside linebackers. Harris graduated from North Carolina Central in 1963 and earned a Masters degree from Duke in 1972. 
Before joining LSU in 1980, he coached at both Duke and North Carolina State. He helped coach the Wolfpack to a Peach Bowl victory over Iowa State in 1977 and to a Tan­gerine Bowl win over Pitt in 1978. 
Currently, Harris is coaching the outside linebackers for the Irish. 
According to Harris, the assign­ments for his players will basically stay the same with good depth this year. 
"Depending on IOJuries, we should go into the season with ade­quate depth at outside linebacker this year," said Harris. 
Harris sees the goal of his corps of linebackers as doing the best that it could possibly do this year with sin­cere hopes of becoming the best in the business. 
"Our goal is to be the best that we possibly can be," commented Har­ris. "Hopefully, we're working toward that end. Everything we do is directed toward that end, toward becoming the best that we could possibly be. 
"We're not concerned about what anyone else does," continued Harris. 
"We're concerned with each indi­vidual becoming the best that he could possibly be." 
While Harris will ·be concerning himselfand his players with the runs that sweep outside and those short out-let passes, Kelly will be concern­ing himself and his players with the inside game. 
Kelly, who is in his 17th year as a member of the Notre Dame coach­ing staff, is the true veteran among Faust's advisers. 
The inside linebacker coach has held that position since he joined the Irish staff after coaching stints with Marquette and Nebraska. As a member of the Cornhusker coach­ing staff, he was a key figure in bet­tering the Husker defense to a top ranking in the country in both 1963 and 1967. 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1949, Kelly returned in 1969 to take control of the Irislr inside linebackers under Irish legend Ara Parseghian. Since he took control of that position, he has been responsible for many outstanding Irish defenses and individual linebackers. 
This year, Kelly does not foresee any major changes in assignments for his players outside ofthe moving of freshman Darrell Gordon and senior co-captain Mike Larkin from inside positions last year to outside positions this year. 
As far as Kelly sees it, the defen­sive philosophy of the Irish has basi­cally not changed outside of improving upon last year's efforts and some new ideas. 
"It (the defensive philosophy) al­ways undergoes changes as a result ofpicking up new ideas," explained Kelly. "The whole staff has been to­gether for a year. Consequently, we intend to implement a lot of other things that we didn't feel as though we could a year ago." 
Overall, the veteran believes that his personnel provide for a strong unit and that they will be able to continue .to develop to make for an even stronger and more solid unit as the year progresses. 
"It (the linebacking corps) is pretty solid right now," commented Kelly. "We naturally feel that we would like to be a little deeper than we currently are, but we feel that we are pretty solid. 
"If you play them together more as a 'unit, they understand the entire defensive package more thoroughly, and that is, naturally, our goal for the spring," continued Kelly. "We will continue to build upon this goal in the fall." 
Before the opposition puts the de­fensive backfield to the test, it must first go through the defensive line. Defensive linemen, with the respon­sibilties of keeping opposing run­ners from penetrating their territory and opposing quarterbacks from throwing over them, are among the toughest and biggest on the squad. 
The man with the responsiblity of taking this type of talent and filling the front line of the defensive unit for the Irish is Lantz. 
The second-year coach was brought in to form a solid three-man front following a two-year tour of duty with Georgia Tech. 
With the Irish, Kelly's responsi­bilities include the left and right tackle positions along with the nose tackle position. This year, as in most years, the Irish are endowed with good talent and depth at these posi­tions. 
Going into the spring, the Irish had two stalwarts returning from last year, including sophomore Wally Kleine at the right tackle spot and sophomore Mike Griffin at the nose tackle spot. The Irish, however, will be looking to replace all­American Mike Gann at the other spot on the line as the senior will be graduating in May. 

Hall of Fame Game marks opening of 14th annual Bo9kstore Tourney 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
The Hall of Fame game, the first game of the 14th annual Bookstore Basketball Tournament, usually pits a top-ranked team against a team that provides plenty ofgags and fun. This year's game should be no differ­ent. 
Revenge of the Fun Bunch, the No. I seed in the tournament, takes on Donkey Hodie and the One­Armed Bandit Tuesday, April 9 at 
6: I 5 p.m. on the courts behind the bookstore. 
Revenge of the Fun Bunch features Pat Collins, Steve Treacy, and football players Tom Rehder, Greg Dingens, and Matt Dingens. 
The team is ranked No. 1 based on its performance in last year's tourna­ment, where it lost in an exciting semi-final game to eventual cham­pion Macri's Deli. The only change in personnel comes as Matt Dingens replaces Rich DiBernardo, who suf­fered a wrist injury and cannot par­ticipate. 
Donkey Hodie is captained by Dan O'Donnell and Rob Heglin, but is led by a donkey donated by a local stable. Donkey Hodie will ride the donkey, while four one-armed ban­dits in Mexican outfits will provide support. The team also promises plenty ofother gags. 
When asked if his team had a chance, Heglin responded, "No." 
Donkey Hodie has prepared for any problems created by the donkey. 
"We have an assigned pooper scooper to pick up any mess dropped by the donkey," Heglin assured. "But if he makes a mess on the opponents free throw line then we're going to leave it there." 

Greg Dingens described his team's strategy for the game. 
"We'll use our best defensive player, Steve Treacy, in a box-and­one on the donkey," he said. 
560 teams entered the tourna­ment this year to make it the largest Bookstore Tournament ever and the largest single-elimination tourna­ment in the world. 
Last year's tournament fielded 512 teams, while 22 teams were on a wanmg list. Commissioner Jeff Blumb used a different strategy this year to accommodate the large response of teams. 
"This year we have three preliminaries with 48 teams so everyone can get in," Blumb ex­plained. "We didn't want to deny anybody a chance to play because people thrive on it." 
"Some teams might have to play I 0 games instead of nine to win the championship now," Blumb conrin­ued. "But all the teams know that and do not mind." 
Blumb feels the Hall ofFame game will be a good start for the tourna­ment. 
"The whole idea is to kick off the tournament in a fun way, with a visible game that people will talk about," he said. "We chose Rev~nge of the Fun Bunch because they stuck out in my mind as the team to beat after being only one free throw away from defeating Macri's." 
Revenge of the Fun Bunch felt honored to be the top seed, but they had some reservations. 
"I would rather not be No. 1 be­cause then we're the team to beat," Dingens stated. " I don't think you can determine the top team because there are new teams coming out. I'm not sure which team will be the best, but I feel 10 teams have a chance to win." 
Besides having more teams, this year's tournament will be run similar to last year. Two rule clarifications were added to avoid problems that occurred last year: all balls that go out of bounds are checked at the top of the key, and any ball that hits the basket pole is out of bounds. 
Because of the large number of teams, all games will be played as scheduled regardless ofthe weather. In past years teams have been forced to play in the cold, rain showers, and 
-
even snow storms. 
All of the preliminary prepara­tions have been made and three weeks offun, exciting, and competi­tive basketball remain. 


~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, April 3, 1985 -page 10 

..
I 
~ 
I I 
I I 
t 
~ 
l 
•
•~ t 

With yesterday's 5-4 win 011er Huntington Col­lege, the Saint Mary's softball team improt,ed their record to a perfect 3-0 on the season. The Belles 
Belles' softball teatn gets third win 
By ANNE KARNATZ Mary Lynn Mulcahy, and first backed each other up in the later in­Sports Wrt ter baseman Barb Theiss. Saint Mary's nings and they knew what to do then tied the score in the bottom of when they got the hall. 
The Saint Mary's softball team that inning. "There's always need for improve­now stands at the 3-0 mark after Senior Teresa McGinnis scored ment in every area, though, and we'll defeating Huntington College, ';-4, the winning run in the ninth inning work to keep down the number of yesterday in nine innings. The on an outstanding line drive hit by errors." Belles, on their home field, came Janine Adamo. The second game of the double: back in extra-inning play after tying "I think the team did really well header was cancelled because ofthe the score in the bottom of the defensively," said Logsdon. cold, and the lateness. due to the seventh inning, 4-4. "Especially in the second half." delay ofthe first game. 
Saint Mary's started out slowly "The players worked well to· The Belles are scheduled to play with six errors and only two runs in gether as a team," noted Beisel after the Notre: Dame softball club today the first four innings. Head coach the game. "They were a little shaky at 3:30p.m. at Saint Mary's. Beisel an­Scott Beisel attributed this to a half­at the beginning, hut they really ticipates "a good, close game." 
Arkansas coach Sutton to succeed Joe B. Hall 
Associated Press would have crawled all the way to 
Lexington," he said. "Fortunately, I 

LEXINGTON, Ky.-Eddie Sutton, was already here for the Final Four." after saying he wouldn't leave: Sutton, 49, became coach at Arkansas for any other job, w·as ap-Arkansas in 197'; after five years at pointed yesterday to succeed Joe B. Creighton and quickly turned Hall as Kentucky basketball coach. around the Razorbacks' program. 
Sutton, who took Arkansas from Kentucky's national champions the basement to the top ofthe South· eliminated the ~.2-4 Razorback.~. 64­west Conference, brought his col-';9, in the 1978 semifinals. The: lege coach, Henry lba, formerly of schools haven't played since. Oklahoma State, along for the: an-After hearing of Sutton's appoint­nouncement. ment, Kentucky star Kenny Walker, 
Sutton wore a Wildcats' tie pro-Southeastern Conference Player of vided by Cliff Hagan, Kentucky's the Year, said he would be back for athletic director. his senior season. 
"When you think about basket· Hall, who resigned March 22 after ball, that's Kentucky," Sutton said, the Wildcats were eliminated from noting that he grew up in Kansas lis-the NCAA tournament by St. John's, tening to Kentucky games on the did not attend the news conference. radio. "It's the only job I'd leave the But he issued a statement approving University ofArkansas for... the choice, and departing assistant 
"When (Kentucky President Otis coach Lake Kelly said Hall, 56, Singletary) called me. helieve me, I wanred to let "Eddie have his day." 
r-.r..r.r.r.r..r.r...oC'".r./".r..r..r.rJ"J"J"..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r.r..r.r..r.;Q""..r.r..r..r.r.r.r..r.r..r.r~ 
X....r..r..r..r..r..r.;-.r.r..r..r..r.r.;Q""..rJ"..r..r.r.r..r..r..r..r.r.r.r.r..r..r..r.r.r..r.r..r.r.r.r.r..r..r~ 
I§ I  New day and time! Chameleon Club Weds. April 3, 8-1 Opm  I~ I  
~  HCC Chameleon Room  ~  
~  Movie Night  §  
~  ~furi~  ~  
8  "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland"  ~  
§  starring Peter Sellers  and  ~  
§  Edgar Allen Poe's  §  
~  "Fall of the House ofUsher"  ~  
s  s  

hour time delay at the beginning of the: game when the officials were late. "This kind of delay mentally slows the: players down," he said. 
Beisel added that he was very pleased with the way the team "came hack and executed at the end." 
Junior pitcher, Cathy Logsdon, the Belles' only returning pitcher, is now 2-0 -ht:r first win coming via a I0·3 victory over Bethel in the first game of a March 26 double header. 
Freshman Betty Milhalik pitched the second game against Bethel in which the the Belles also came out on top by a score of 12·9. 
Despite the early errors, the Belles were ahead, .2-I, until the fifth inning when Huntington scored three runs to move ahead. Saint Mary's, playing a tight defense, was ahk to hold its opponent in the next two innings. 
In the seventh inning, the Belles infielders demonstrated their team­work with an impressive double play by Logsdon, second baseman 
Women 
continuedfrom page 12 

two teams intensified after they moved indoors and competition heated up as both squads played more aggfl·ssivc:ly. 
Michelle Dasso and Kathy Schnell playing at No. 3 doubles, put their opponents away quickly, winning their matches, 6-I, 6-I. Their victory gave the Irish a 4·3 edge over the Broncos and added pressure to the 
Applications are now being taken for the SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES TASK FORCE. 
Positions open include: 
1. 
Film Series Manager 

2. 
Faculty-staffContact . 3--PublicitY Coordinator 


4. 
Poster Artist 


5. 
Educational Media Contact 


Deadline•.•friday, April 1 Forms available at the Center for·Social Concerns 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWRENTINGFORFALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence,­all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 820 ND Ave or caDopen Mon-Fri3-6pm 

-
doubles pairs still on the court. 

Fans and team members sat at the edgt·s of their seats until senior co­captain l.isa l.aFratta and Mary Col­ligan at No. 2 doubles scored the winning point. With the win locked up, everyone grinned from ear to ear as they watched Laura Lee and Susie: Panther finish their matches, 6·3, 4-6 and 6-0 at No. I doubles. 
"We were e\·enly matched and we played hard fought matches," said Petro. "We have good doubles teams. Sometimes you can have a had day in singles hut with the moral support of a partner you can play better." 
Yesterday's win over the Broncos will generate the momentum the Irish need to carry them through this weekend. The team will travel to Evansville, Ind., to face Evansville, Edwardsville: and Morehead State in what promises to he a weekend of 
234-6647
Sat ll-3pm 

Happy 21 st Birthday to a great daughter Beth DeMent 

(SMC'86) 
from Mom and Dad April 6, 1985 
fierce competition. 

~~~C3L~----------------------------------------w-e_d_n_es_d_a_y,_A_p_r_il_3_,_19_8_5
___P_a_g_e_l_l 

Bloom County 

Zeto 
SO CAROL, \./HEN 
ARE \JE 601 N6 


ACROSS 1 La Paz lady 5 Lassoer 
10 The Stoic 14 At the time of 15 Pontiff's 
vestment 16 Dutch treat 17 Mex. "jumper" 18 Burn 19 Meande~ 20 Cook up 22 Hams 24 Aspires 26 Certain rip 27 Revealin£ 31 Flat payments 34 New Haven 
colleg•a­35 Binc: 37 Pentateuch 39 "-wei' 
that ends ...,. 41 Abominable 
snowmen 43 Octavia's mate 44 Throwing rooe 46 Bergero' 
movie~ 
48 Begum's 
husbanC> 49 Cometlome 51 Flapper~ 
runabou! 53 Naldi of tn£ 
silent. 55 Pheasant brood 56 Eastern to: 
ont 60 Firearm 
cleane· 64 Dtva s son{ 65 Relativf 67 Dermal outle~ 68 "Auld-Syne" 69 Vampirt­70 Anciem 
kingdom 
71 GIVe u~ 72 Atlanta schoor 73 Show girl city 
DOWN 1 Knights 2 Cartel letters 3 Biblicaf 
skipper 4Toughen 
NeVCKTHeL€55.. rr IS TfM€ FOf{ /t1€ 1/NP 50N, 

MY HOI?flYJNeS YOY HIIVeN'T 
17J Sal< 111~ CA5H Af'Pf?OPf?ltrre fOI? A Ft.ING. 
ffi'rf!NIN£ \ 


The Daily Crossword 

(c;' 1985 Tribune Media Services, m~. 
4/3/85 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
S/1?.' N0,811r tr MON€Y /MPRO',f;S YOIJI{ CAN Nor 8AI?Gfi/NING 
8{JY POStnON. H£/?.G'SWV6 .. 7EN /1(/CKS. 
Kevin Walsh 
HERE IT IS. 


Campus 

•-Blood Drive Sign-ups, St. Mary's Dining Hall, Blood Drive To Be Held on April 11 & 12, Sponsored by St. Mary's Senior Class. •2:30-5p.m.-IncomeTaxAssistancePro­gram, CSC Coffeehouse. 
• 
3:30p.m. -Lacrosse, ND vs. Radford, Cartier Field. 

•4 
p.m.-Lecture, "Chicago Women in Archi· lecture," Linda Searl, President of Chicago Women in Architecture, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Statistics of Biased Linear Polymers," Prof. Hisao Nakanishi, Purdue University, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Toastmasters Meeting, Room 223 Hayes Healy. 

•7 
p.m. -Wednesday Night Film Series, "Fort Apache," ETS Theatre of the CCE. 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
6:30p.m.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
28  ABC World News Tonight  
7:00p.m.  16  M*A*S*H  
22  Three's Company  
28  Jeopardy  
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
28  Wheel of Fortune  
8:00p.m.  16  Highway to Heaven  
22  Charles in Charge  
28  Fall Guy  
34  Discover: The World ofScience  


How locusts are incited to swarm 
•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "What is Catholicism?" Rev. Richard McBrien, ND, Catholicism and Spirituality, CSC Classroom. 

•8: 
1 5 p.m. -Concert, Notre Dame Glee Club Spring Concert, Washington Hall, Sponsored by NO Music Department, Free. 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Baked breast of chicken almandine Stuffed peppers Baked cod with lemon 
Saint Mary's Chicken pot pie Roast top round ofbeef Spagetti with meatballs 
8:30p.m.  22  E.R.  
9:00p.m.  16  Movie· A.D. (Pt. IV)  
22  Movie  
28  Dynasty  
34  Compleat Gilbert and Sullivan  
!O:OOp.m.  28  Hotel  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Body Electric  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Magnum/Movie  
28  ABC News Nightline  
34  Movie · lady of Burlesque  
!2:00a.m.  28  Love Connection  
!2:30a.m.  16  late Night With David Letterman  

All Roghts Reservec 
5 Hert 6 Fierce whale 7 Former TV host 8 Logan anci 
Raine~ 
9 Ruddy, only moresc 10 Approach, ir 
awa•· 11 Biblical lane 12 Wheel hut. 13 Augu~; 21 Yogi's glove 23 '-a mal' 
with...' 25 Pivots 27 Drop of sorrow 28 Havelock­29 Flowerll' 
Whitman's 
dooryard 30 Organic salt 32 Pay for 33 "Beetle 
Bailey's" boss 36 Trojan Horse name 

Tuesday's Solution 

38 Fros! 56 Powder base 
40 Era long ago 57 Dies­42 Flight 58 Intellect 45 N.M. neighbor 59 Sailors' saint 47 Lizarti 61 Function 50 Prima ballerina 62 Algerian port 
52 "-fldells" 63 Certain car 54 Vietnam region 66 Ventilate 


'"'MO'rch of Dimes
'-'t' 

-IIIIIIIIBIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION-illl• 

THE ND STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD AND THE BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL present 
'-------------RecordStore-----1 
Dr. Benjamin Hooks Executive Director ofthe NAACP 
Wednesday, Aprill0, in the LIBRARY AUDITORIUM at 8:00pm. Reception to follow. 

S~orts 

tough competition. The Bloomington meet in· eludes teamsfrom Indiana and Michigan State. 
this u•eekend as they tra11el soutbward toface some 
Women finally ~efeat W. Michigan 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports lr'rlter 

Nothing could stop them. Not the high winds, not the icy tempera· tures, not even baseball announcer Chuck Freeby's singing audible from Jakt• Kline Field during the fifth­inning stretch could prevent the Notre Dame women's tennis team from capturing its first victory in its history over Western Michigan llni· versity. 
The Irish wanted this win against the top-ranked Division I Broncos yesterday a! Courtney Courts, and Notre Dame's determination to avenge last weekend's disappointing loss to the Indiana Hoosiers showed in every point the Irish scored in their solid 6-3 victory. 
"I hope this is the turning point for us," said a jovial Notre Dame head coach Sharon Petro. "It gives us confidence knowing we can fight hard and win, knowing we can be up and win. They're not a slouch team and we beat them." 
Battling less than balmy South Bend gusts was a source of frustra­tion for the Irish throughout the singles competition. Players from both squads struggled to get their shots over the net or keep them from straying off the court and the Irish and Broncos were dead even at 3·3 entering the doubles sequence of the meet. 
The chilling weather adversely ef­fected junior Mary Colligan's play at No.2 singles. While she dropped her matches, 5-7, 6-2 and 6-3, she didn't easily give up points to the Broncos and struggled to keep thr matches alive. 
At the end of the singles sequence, the teams moved into the ACC to continue the meet at a more suitable temperature. Friction between the 
see WOMEN, page 10 
Notre Dame splits with Ball State 
four innings, gtvmg up only three The Notre Dame homestand will hits and zero runs. Head coach Larry continue today when the Irish play a Gallo expressed nothing but praise double-header against last year's Big for Mauk. "I am very pleased with Ten runner-up, Northwestern. The Mauk's performance today. He came action will take place on Jake Kline into the game when we were down field, and starting time is I :30 p.m. 8·1, with not much to gain." Northwestern comes into the 
Offensively for the Irish, Mike game with a record of 9·3 Trudeau, the leading hitter for Notre (excluding yesterday's results from Dame, continued his white-hot slug· their twinbill vs. Valparaiso). Gallo ging pace. Trudeau went 4-8 in the will start Mark Watzke in the opener twinbill, upping his season average and either Dan Sacchini, John to .421. The Irish lost the second Bowen or Brad Cross in the second game of the doubleheader, 8·3. end of the double-header. 
Irish face E·astern rivals 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team will take a break from its Midwest Lacrosse Association schedule to take on three Eastern opponents over the next week, beginning with a game against Radford College ofVirginia at 3:30p.m. this afternoon on Cartier Field. 
The team will also travel to the Long Island area to play games against Holy Cross and Stony Brook during the Easter vacation. 
With two league victories already under their belts, the Irish will be trying to do some fine tuning before the hardest part of the MI.A schedule begins after Easter. Although the defense has played well through the first six games, the lack of offense has been a source of concern for Coach Rich O'Leary. That problem seems to be working itself out, though, as the Notre Dame attack had its best game this year in Saturday's 14-8 win over Kenyon. 
"This break falls at an excellent time for us," says O'Leary. "We're doing better now, and by playing challenging teams like Radford and Holy Cross, we should be reaching mid-season form. Hopefully, we'll be more than ready for the conference schedule." 
Once again, the Irish will be looking for attackmen Bob Trocchi and Joe Franklin, who already appear to be in mid-season form, to bear most of the scoring burden. Trocchi, who tied a school record with eight points (four goals, four assists) against Kenyon and who earned the Great Lakes Lacrosse Association award as the player of the week, has scored 13 goals and assisted on nine others, while Franklin has contributed 14 goals and three assists. 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports lr'rlter 

The Notre Dame baseball team 
opened its homestand yesterday 
when it split a doubleheader with 
Ball State, winning the first, 6-5, and 
dropping the second by an 8-3 
count. The split brings the Irish 
record to 5-8 for the season. 

In the first game of the twinbill, Notre Dame was aided by a six-run fifth-inning rally, a rally which was highlighted by a Mike McNeill solo home run, and shoddy pitching by Ball State. 
In the inning, the Irish were able 
to take advantage of hit batsmen, 
walks and three hits to push all six of 
their runs across the plate. As it 
turned out, Notre Dame would need 
all six of these as starting pitcher 
Buster Lopes encountered serious 
trouble in the top half of the sixth. 
Lopes went five innings, giving up four hits and five earned runs. In the sixth, he gave up four of those runs as Ball State cut the Irish lead to 6-5. Fortunately for Notre Dame, John Schomer was able to extinguish the fire as he pitched the sixth and seventh, picking up his second save of the spring. Lopes got the win, eve­ning his record at 2-2. Sophomore John Loughran picked up the game­winning RBI. 
Things turned for the worst in the second game of the doubleheader. Notre Dame starting pitcher Joe Dobosh was pounded by Ball State, yielding I 0 hits and eight runs in three innings ofaction. 
On the brighter side for the Irish, freshman Paul Mauk made an im· pres.o;ive appearance in relief of Dobosh in the fourth. Mauk pitched 
Wednesday, April 3, 1985-page 12 
Spring is in the air as baseball returns 

Chuck Freeby 
IriSh Items 

Hello again, everybody! Despite the fact that Mart·h 21 has 
already passed, we all know that spring has not yet arrived. It's not 
the fact that snow still falls in South Brnd, that thr trees have not yet 
begun to bud, or that the smell of spring instead of ethanol has not 
yet come into the air. Ask any hascball fan, and that person will tell 
you that the surest way to know that springtime has comt• is when 
Opening Day of the baseball season comes around. 
That day is only t1ve days away, and soon millions of fans will be 
headed for the ballparks. That includes plenty of Notre Dame stu· 
dents, who will be more than happy to take a day off from classes 10 
take in a ball game. The only question is: Whcre's the best place to 
go? Well, that depends on what you're looking for, but hopefully the 
following guide will help you in establishing your plans to take your· 
self out to the ballgame. 
Comiskey Park -Chicago White Sox... Located just off the Dan 
Ryan Expressway, Comiskey has easy access and plenty of room in 
April and early May for frigid fans. Thcrr's plenty ofparking near the 
stadium, bur it is best to travel in a group beacuse the neighborhood 
isn't the best. Once you're inside, this structure is a mix of traditional 
old-time baseball with a flashy scoreboard and great organist. A trrat 
for any baseball fan. 
Sox Home Dates -April 19·21, Boston. April 22-24, Milwaukee. 
April 26-28, New York. Tickets rangr from S9. 'iO for Golden Boxes 
to S3 for general admission. Those include some very good bleacher 
seats in left and right t1eld. To order tickets in advance, call :\ 12-'i'i9· 
1212. 

Wrigley Field-Chicago Cubs... Lights or no lights, this is one of 
the most beautiful ball parks in baseball. Tucked in away on the cor· 
ncr of Clark and Addison on Chicago's north side, it's a little tougher 
10 get to than Comiskey. Take the Dan Ryan 10 the Edens and take the 
Wrigley Field exit. Parking is minimal. but once you get inside grab a 
great hot dog and your favorite beverage. This is the park for the true 
baseball afficionado. 
Cubs Home Dates -April9, II, Pittsburgh. April 12-14, Montreal. 
April 1 5-I 7, Philadelphia. Aprii30-May 1, San Francisco. May :\·'5, San 
Diego. May 6-7, Los Angeles. Tickets range from Club Boxes for 
S9.SO to bleachers for S3.50. Now that bleacher tickets arc sold in 
advance, order early. To do so call.-\ I 2-28 I -50'50. 
County Stadium-Milwaukee Brewers... Right offl-94, here's 
another stadium that has easy access. With plenty ofparking, the best 
thing to do at a Brewers game is tailgate, hut if you don't want to do 
that, there's plenty ofgood brats and dogs inside. Beer is abundant in 
Milwaukee, but there's also wine cooler for the Yuppies in tht· 
crowd. A warning: Milwaukee is very cold in April. 
BrewerHome Dates-April9, I I, Chicago. April 19·21, Texas. April 
25-28, Detroit. _May 7, Seattle. Tickets range from S8.50 for mez­
zanine seats to S3 for bleachers. A very good, decently-priced s•·at is 
$5.SO for upper grandstand behind home plate. To order tickets, call 
414-933·1818. 

Tiger Stadium -DetroitTigers... Motown is Tiger Town and this old place rocks when the Tiger fans come in. They should be there in droves this year to see if their club can repeat. Take J-80 to 1-69 then to 1-94 to get to the ballpark. After last year's World Series, I should only need to say, "Be careful where you park your car." 
Tiger Home Dates -April 8, 10-1 I, Cleveland. April 16-1 7, Mil· waukee. April 19·21, Kansas City. April 30-May I, Minnesota. May 3·5, Chicago. Tickets run from S9 for box seats to $3.50 for bleac· hers. The best bet is general admission at five bucks a crack. Call 313-963·9944. 
Municipal Stadium -Cleveland Indians... You've got to be kidding me. If you had a long weekend, why would you spend it on the banks of the Cuyahoga? Nevertheless, if you're favorite team is playing the Tribe, it's not too difficult to get to this old relic of a ballpark. Just take 1-80 into Cleveland, and follow the signs. There's plenty of room to park and plenty ofseats, but this isn't a pretty park at all. 
Tribe Weekend Dates -April 13-14, New York. May 3-5, Texas. There's no need to call ahead for tickets, because there are always plenty available at the gates. Prices range from S8 for field boxes to $2 for bleachers. You might as well buy a bleacher scat, because after the third inning, you can sit where you want. 
Riverfront Stadium -Cincinnati Reds... Here's one of those stadiums that they could take to six different cities in the National League and no one would know the difference. Riverfront Stadium is nice, but so are houseplants, and they both come iQ plastic. Still, it's a nice place to watch a ballgame. Parking is limited by the stadium, but there's plenty ofgarages across the bridge from the park. There's also plenty ofconcession stands in this very clean stadium. 
Reds Weekend Dates -April I 2-14, Philadc:Iphia. April 18-21, San Francisco. Tickets range from $8 for box seats to $3.50 for "Top Six" seats from which you can see Notre Dame better than the game. Your best bet is a 56 seat for green level reserved beyond the out­field wall. Call 513-42 I·7337 for tickets. 
Pick ofthe Week .. The easiest and cheapest place to go is Jake Kline Field, and there's plenty ofaction there this week. Today, Larry Gallo's Irish diamondmen entertain Northwestern in a doubleheader, and tomorrow Michigan State comes in for a twinbill. 
But wait · there's more. Saturday features a doubleheader with Wisconsin, who will stick around for a single game on Easter Sunday. You can't beat fun at the ol' ball park, so come toJake Kline and see some exciting baseball action this week. 



