Activities night -page 5 

the imkpl.lllknt ~tudn!l Ill"\\ ~paper .~lTI 111g 11e 1tn dame ;111d ~aint man·~
\01. XX, NO. 7 


Hurricane Elena wreaks havoc on Gulf Coast 
AMoclated Press northwest with winds of 125 mph. horities would begin damage assess­hardly traverse it," said George Phil­
The storm's highest sustained winds ments immediately, but Public lips, emergency services official at 
BILOXI, Miss. -Hurricane Elena began dropping after it hit land and Safety Commissioner James Roberts Gulf Shores. In some areas roads finally howled ashore along the Mis­by midday were down to about 75 said major roads to the Gulf Coast were covered by about two feet of sissippi coast yesterday with winds mph. were closed by high water. water. up to 122 mph, ripping off roofs, By early afternoon all hurricane Gulfport received 4.25 inches of 
He said power was out and thereuprooting trees, flooding highways warnings were discontinued along rain from the storm by midmorning. 

was little sign of life since mostand knocking out power to 300,000 the coast. "Roofs are flying all over," said Ed people evacuated Sunday. "Nobodypeople. In the Pascagoula area, Jackson Petro, news director ofWGCM radio is moving except in police cars," heDespite the damage, no serious in­County officials said there was ex­in Gulfport, during the storm. 

said.

juries were reported as the season's tensive damage to vehicles when the "Shingles are goin' offwhat roofs are fourth hurricane landed ashore after sudden drop in air pressure blew staying attached to the house." At various times 1.25 million were: zigzagging around the Gulf of windows out, and cars parked at the Emergency shelters weren't evacuated in Florida, although that Mexico for four days. Earlier, the courthouse were crushed by falling immune to the storm, and at least included Panhandle residents twice storm contributed to three deaths in trees. three schools used as shelters in because they evacuated twice, said !-lorida, including one heart attack. Parts of U.S. 90 along the coast Gulfport lost roofs to the wind. Joy Mcilwain, emergency manage­
More than half a million people were blocked by water that surged Early reports in Aorida indicated ment spokeswoman for the Depart­had evacuated in Florida, Alabama, over seawalls. Elena had washed away piers, ment of Community Affairs. Gov. Mississippi and Louisiana after Elena Gov. Bill Allain asked President eroded beaches and flooded homes. Bob Graham lifted all mandatory reversed· course off the coast of Reagan to declare the coastal Alabama Highway 182 was closed evacuation orders yesterday except Florida on Sunday and headed counties a disaster area. He said aut-because it "is full ofdebris. You can't for Escambia County. 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 198'5 
ND Security continues investigation of shooting 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
Copy Editor 
Notre Dame Security now 
believes the bullet which struck a 
Notre Dame athlete Thursday was 
fired from an automatic pistol, in­
stead of a rifle as originally thought, 
said Director of Security Glenn 
Terry. 
No suspect has been apprehended 
in the shooting, which left Christina 
Weinmann, a senior field hockey 
player, with a minor leg wound. 
Because of the trajectory of the 
nine-millimeter bullet, Terry said, 
he didn't believe criminal intent was 
involved. 
Instead, he said, the shot likely was fired accidently by a hunter or someone shooting tin cans. 
"The normal traveling distance (of the bullet) could not be more than 400 to 500 yards," he said. "I don't think anyone could be aiming from that far." 
Weinmann was on Cartier field when she was struck, another reason why Terry believes she was shot by accident. 
"She was in a fenced area, and un­less you're right up against the fence, you can't see anything," he said. 
Security is continuing its inves­tigation, however few clues have been found and no witnesses have stepped forward, Terry said. 
"We searched the area but we found no casings and the neighbors didn't hear any shots that day," he said. "There were 30 people around her but no one heard or saw anyth­ing," Terry said, adding, "We have very little to go on." 
Security will send the bullet to a lab to aid in the investigation, Terry said. "It's in the realm of possibility for the best labs to tell you what brand of pistol It was based on the grooves on the bullet,;' he said. 
Ifthe person responsible is caught and all the facts known, Terry said, he'll decide then whether to press charges. 
But, said Terry, "We cross that bridge when we come to it." 


Hofman chosen as one of the finest professors 
By ROBERT RAPHAEL 
News Stuff 
The legend of Emil Hofman has spread beyond the confines ofNotre Dame into distant parts of the country. 

Hofman, dean offreshman year of studies and professor of chemistry, wa.o; one of ten finalists in the 1985 Professor of the Year competition conducted by the Council for the Advancement and Support ofEduca­tion (CASE). 
Although he did not win the award, Hofman was chosen from among 2'56 nominees across 41 states. 
The purpose of the award is to "send a powerful and important message that teaching in America counts," according to the Carnegie 
Foundation for the Advancement of Teat'hing which funded the award. 
Hofman, who has taught ap­proximately 20,000 freshmen since he began teaching chemistry at Notre Dame in 1953, was nominated by Richard Conklin, assistant vice president for University relations and Notre Dame's CASE representative. 
Acknowledging that there are many outstanding professors at 
Notre Dame, Conklin said he 
nominated Hofman because he has a 
unique combination of teaching ex­
cellence and administrative respon­
sibility. 
Provost Timothy O'Meara 
affirmed that Hofman's teaching ex­
cellence and administrative work 
was so close to the lives of his stu­
dents that it made him a prime can­
didate for the nomination. 
O'Meara also cited dedication to 
the University, a national reputation 
and a keen personal interest in stu­
dents as positive qualities Hofman 
possesses. O'Meara further said he 
admired Hofman for accomplishing 
his goals while demanding high 
academic performance from his stu­
dents. 
One criterion for the award was a demonstrated impact on the lives 
and careers of students, which Hof­
man seems to have accomplished. 
The three people that nominated Hofman for the award were William Rocke of Escondido, Cal., William Bell of the Johns Hopkins Medical Institution, and Daniel Lungren, a Republican congressman from 
California. All three were former students of Hofman. 
Br~wsing The Ol»erv~/Paul Plho<nky 
julliette LaChapelle spent part of yesterday looking for that finishing touchfor herroom. Many varieties ofposters were on sale at the LaFortune Student Center. 


SMC, ND student governments ' begin '85-'86 meetings 
the curve on the Notre Dame side her and exchange information. available. of the road are currently being Workshops on stress and time Last spring, however, Neal,
Board calls Tyson, Neal 
fixed," said Kollman. management also are part of the with the approval of Tyson, nul­Council members also discussed agenda. lifted the vote and approved the 
the possibility of having an emer­The ND/SMC People of Praise budget without the senate's con­gency telephone installed along Club, a Christian club providing sent. the Saint Mary's road near the light. students with the opportunity to "I did not want to begin the 
By KIMBERLY TRENNER Students would be able to contact experience charismatic renewal, By CHRIS BEDNARSKI year not feeling secure about the Senior StaffReporter security for help immediately in was okayed for approval by the SeniorStaffReporter budget," said Tyson. the case of an emergency. board last night. Student Senator Chris Abood 
'lbe need for increased security The recent rape ofa Saint Mary's The new club is an ecumenical Father David Tyson, vice presi­said he could have guaranteed both on campus and on the road student was cited as an example of Christian community which will dent for student affairs, and Jonl Tyson that the senate had between Notre Dame and Saint the need for tightened security. gather for prayer and fellowship Neal, director of student ac­provided enough funds for the Mary's was discussed at last night's Also discussed at the meeting meetings. tivities, defended their decision summer and fall. Board ofGovernance meeting. was the upcoming American Col­Also discussed last night was a to overrule the Student Senate's Tyson, however, said approv­
Student Body President Ann lege Union's International Con­survey to determine student spring vote at the first senate ing a partial budget was "not Marie Kollman said there was ference, which Saint Mary's will be opinion on weekend lunch hours meeting of the year last night. good procedure" and that he some cause for concern among hosting during the weekend of and Sunday library hours. In its final meeting last spring, wasn't comfortable with it. "I students regarding the lighting Oct. 5-6. Another survey will be given to the senate had voted to approve think It Is bad business practice," along the road connecting both At the conference, college stu­both faculty and hall desk workers two-thirds ofits budget then and he said. campuses, but mentioned one dents involved in student govern­regarding the current weekday leave the remaining one-third Neal said activities, such as solution being instituted. ment will be gathering from alone until it could be discussed 

for security detail action 
"The lights which are out along various regions nationwide to gat-see SECURITY, page 3 in the fall when more time was see SENATE, page 3
• 

r 
r 
r r r 
r 
I 
r r 
[ 
I I 
I 
l 
~ 
I 
The Observer 




In Brief 

Intelligent life on other planets? Nearly half of Americans think so, and they believe money is well spent searching for it, according to a Media General-Associated Press poll. And while the idea of civilian space travel is no longer far-fetched, Americans are not overly eager to ride in the space shuttle. Forty-seven percent ofthe 1,51 7 respondents in the nationwide telephone poll said they believed alien life existed, while 36 percent disagreed. Seventeen percent were unsure. -AP 
The star-studded 20th annual Jerry Lewis muscular dystrophy telethon raised more than $33 million yesterday, the largest amount ever in the history of the Labor Day weekend event to fight neuromuscular disease. The $33,181 ,65 2 raised across the country in the ''Jerry Lewis Supershow" surpassed by $1.1 million the record of $32,074,566 set last year. In addition to the $33 mil­lion pledged Monday, an estimated $50 million po~red ~n throu~­hout the year from corporate and civic sponsors nauonwtde. Lewis said he expected the entire year's donations to exceed last year's total of $81.6 million. -AP 
Of Interest 
All seniors interested in attending law school are requested to attend a Senior Pre-Law Society meeting at 7:30 tonight in the Engineering Auditorium. -The Observer 
A piano recital by Jeffrey Jacob, associate professor of music at Saint Mary's, will be presented Thursday night at 8 in the little Theater of Moreau Hall. The recital will include works by Haydn, Debussy, Chopin, and Barber. jacob previously has per­formed at Carnegie Hall and recently returned from a three month concert tour of Europe. Jacob also has performed in the People's Republic ofChina,by invitation of the Chinese government, and he is the first American to receive the Peking Conservatory's Com­memorative Medal. His performance on Thursday is Cree and open to the public. -The Observer 
Sign-ups continue tonight for_ the Tippecanoe Res­taurant senior class brunch. Representatives will be at the LaFortune Information Desk from 6 p.m. until 8 p.m. The ticket price is U 1. · 
Tbe Observer 

A lottery will be held for tickets to the upcoming football game against Michigan. Students with their I.D.'s can sign up for the lottery from from 1 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Friday at the Ombudsman desk. There will be 200 tickets available and the winners' names will be posted Sunday in the first-floor LaFortune Student Center glass case and in the Student Activities Board offices. Each student is eligible for two tickets. -The Observer 
A new Guiness world record for the largest 
game of musical chairs will be set by the Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's community if all goes well on Friday, Sept. 6 at 5 p.m. The 
attempt to break the current record of506o participants will be held 
on Green field in conjunction with a special Hawaiian dinner for 
Notre Dame students prior to the event. Members ofthe faculty and 
their families are welcome to participate. See hall representatives to 
sign-up. -The Observer 


Weather 

Hey Kool-Aid! Despite the heat, the Kooi-Aid guy is not likely to show up today, however, the Bud man just might make a guest appearance. It will be mostly sunny, warm, and humid today. High in the mid to upper 80s. It will be partly cloudy and warm tonight. Low in the mid and upper 60s. Very warm and humid tomorrow with a 30-percent chance of thun­

dershowers. High in the mid to upper 80s. 
The Obser-ver 
lbe Obeerver (USPS ~99 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Obeerver is published by the students of the University of Notte Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchased for HO per year ( SZO per se· mester) by writing lbe Obeerver, P.O. 
Box Q, Notte Dame. Indiana 46556. ­

1be Obeerver is a member of lbe 
"->elated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 

Design Editor ..............................Tom Small Design Assistants ......••.•. Catherine Coffey Tracy Schindele Typesetters .................... Becky Gunderman Mark B. Johnson Mary EUen Harrington News Editor ............................. Scou Bearby Copy Editor....................... Mark Pankowski Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Scheuermann Viewpoint Copy Editor........... Miriam Hill Viewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown ND DayEditor......................... Doug Hasler SMC Day Editor......•............... Pricilla Karle Ad Design .................... M. C. Creadon et al. Photographer ..................... Paul Pahoresky 
----~ 
Tuesday, September 3, 1985 -page 2 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ­the merger which almost was 
Saint Mary's students: It is the summer before you enter college. You receive your new dormitory room assignment in the mail and are overjoyed to find that you are now a resident ofStanford Hall? 
That scenario might have been a typical one, had the proposed merger ofSaint Mary's and Notre Dame taken place 14 years ago. · 
In January 1971, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's released a consultants' report recommending that Saint Mary's join Notre Dame as a separate entity within the University, with eventual plans to merge. 
The report, written by Rosemary Park, professor of education at UCLA and Lewis Mayhew, professor of education at Stanford, proposed that Saint Mary's take the official name of"Saint Mary's College in the Univer­sity ofNotre Dame," and concentrate on an educational program for women. 
The Park-Mayhew report also recommended the merger of the registrars, admission staff, psychological services, and securityforces. 
Criticism of the report 
broke out immediately after its release. This was not real co-education, maintained an Observer editorial. 
"We don't want Saint Mary's to remain as a woman's college in Notre Dame," said Karen Schulz, academic affairs commis­sioner. Notre Dame Student Body President Dave Krashna called the report a "half-assed approach to a 
co-education. 

*****************
lt lamafamous * : ND Alumnus : 
~ ;
* 
I pitch for the ~

* 
L.A. Dodgers Jt


: : 
* * 
: Whoaml? : 
lt Check to•onow'e paper lt
* * 
lt for the nu:t clue. lt 
t***************t. 

Theresa Guarino 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
It was all officially approved March 21 during a joint meeting of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's trustees in Palm Beach, Fla. 
Unification was ordered to be complete, according to Acting SMC President Sister Alma Peter, who said she was "very excited and enthusiastic about the decision." An official merger plan was announced and many Saint Mary's departments packed up for their move across the street. 
But in October 1971, merger plans hit a snag. The 
Sisters of the Holy Cross 
refused to give or lend build­


ings to Notre Dame, and in­sisted on leasing them. And as Father Jerome Wilson, vice president for business affairs, said, "Ifthe lease they want is too high, the unifica­tion would have to be called off." By November, the merger prospect was begin­ning to look dim, thanks to budget conflicts. 
On December 1, the ex­pected happened. At a press 
very important problem." 

Task forces and commit­tees were formed, issues q.'3 were discussed, polls were taken, and insults were hurled from group to group. 
Father Charles Sheedy, chairman of a coordination committee, said the greatest obstacle the report found was the "grandioseness" of Notre Dame's attitude and the "defensiveness" of Saint Mary's side, calling both views a "constant source ofdifficulty." 
When asked about the major point ofcontention bet­ween the schools, Father Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­sity president, replied, "Saint Mary's, like any smaller school is worried about being gobbled up. Let's not try to gobble them up. Who knows, we may get indiges­tion." 
"We've got to work this situation out," Hesburgh continued. 
Krasny and Ann Marie Tracey, student body presi­dent at Saint Mary's, issued a joint statement calling for a unified drive to influence the decision of the boards of both schools. Both student leaders said the Park­Mayhew report was inadequate and not contributing to conference, Hesburgh con­
firmed that "it is not possible 
to accomplish complete uni­
M4ttWflf'ftiO«.T fication at this time" bet­ween the two schools. And the Saint Mary's depart­ments started packing up again. Students reacted by boycotting classes, and booing Sister Alma, as she attempted to explain the reason for the merger collapse. Student government cited "manipulation" of the student body, and tried to pressure the SMC trUStees to reverse their decision. 
It all made for a very interesting year, for both stu­dents and administrators alike. Today, luckily, any thought of a merger is a thing of the past. The College survived the storm, and has done quite well "as a separate entity." Notre Dame admitted women the next year, and they aren't doing too badly themselves. 
The proposed merger between the schools doesn't seem quite so earth-shattering now as it did in 1971. But in a time when the biggest issues on campus can be a parietals extension and a new student store, it can make for interesting reading. 

SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
IMPORTANT SENIOR PRE-LAW SOCIETY MEETING 
Tues. Sept. 3, 7:30p.m. LlbraryAud. 

SPEAKERS: DEAN WADDICK, DEAN UNK, AND PROF. MARULLO 

(topics Include; lsat, personal statements, applications, etc.) 
SPONSORED BY THE ND/SMC PRE-lAW SOCIETY 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
"" Support the . 
'li'~!~!JECQ{J2~[['..2§ 

••••••••••• ...................................,
•
• 
Little
•
• Flower
•
• Montessori
•
•
•
•
• PRE-SCHOO~
• eParent/Child ekin ergarten
• 
eroddler eExtended D~y
•
• ePre-Primary Kindergarten
•
• 
15767 Day Rd., Mishawaka 
624 N. Notre Dame Ave. •

•
• 256-5313 • 
• Tlae only accredited Montessori School in Indiana :
• 
.: : •
•
•
•
•
ELfMENTARY • Grades •
•
First through Sixth •
•
•
• 

The Observer 

R.I.P. 
Cm•anaugh residents took advantage ofsome spare construe­lion dirt andfonned their answer to the proposed Fieldhouse Mall memorial in front oftheir hall. Either that or the hall isplanning a little early for HalloweetJfestivtttes. 
: ACAP : 
e ADULT CHILDREN OF ALCOHOLIC PARENTS e 
• Mondays....... 5:30-6:30 pm : 
: Counseling &Psychological Services Center • • Room 316 • 
: Does someone significant to you have a drinking : • problem? Does It affect you? Maybe we can help. • • Call 239-5085 
,.............................................................................................................................. 
i S.O.A.P i 
I Students on Alcohol Problems i Meeting on Mondays at 4 :oo pm. ~ Counseling &Psychological Services i 
Center rm. 316 Do you have some Ideas about alcohol? Would you like to share them with other 
students who may also be like you? Call 239-5085 or stop by C.USC. (Monl
............................................................................................................................. 
Sunshine Promotions Present 
The Guitar VIrtuoso Is coming to South Bend II 
Friday. September 6 8:00p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium 
A11seats reserved $13 .00 
nckets available at the Century Center lox Office, Night Winds (Niles and Mishawaka), J.R.'s (La Porte) and Supersounds (Elkhart). 
... Don't mlathe hottest 
Tuesday, September 3, 1985-page 3 


Old aerospace laboratory to get breath of fresh air with new facility 
ByAMY BAKER 
StaffReporter 
Nearly 40 years after Notre Dame aerodynamic pioneer F.N.M. Brown assembled his temporary smoke­tunnellaboratory from World War II surplus equipment, a modernized research facility will house the world's first three-dimensional smoke tunnel to be used since the first one was created. 
Plans for a new aerospace research facility have been on the drawing board since 1979 and developers still are working on the plans, according to Thomas Mueller, aerospace and mechanical engineer­ing professor and director of research and graduate studies for the College of Engineering. 
"We are waiting for all the neces· sary funding for the building to come in before we begin construc­tion," said Robert Nelson, associate professor ofaerospace and mechani­cal engineering. 
Several corporations including Bendix South Bend-Mishawaka, l..ockhead Corp. and McDonnel Douglas have donated money for the new building which has a proposed ment most likely would be attained construction cost on the order of to purchase any such equipment. Sl,OOO,OOO, said Mueller. Current aerospace research by 
The location of the new facility is Notre Dame faculty receives fun-undetermined at this time, he said. ding from NASA, the Navy and the 
The new quarters will provide Air Force, the largest suppliers of aerospace researchers with the basic research funds in the field. necessary space for the large wind Renovations took place this paM tunnels, more offices for faculty and summer in order to update the lab's graduate students, as well as a com-largest wind tunnel, the subsonic puter room, machine shop and low-turbuknce smoke tunnel. electronics shop, said Mueller. The diffuser was redesigned, and a 
The facility also will reduce the new motor and speed control unit noise levels caused by the tunnels by were added to allow for simulation providing an underground chamber of higher speeds and better speed to dampen the noisy exhaust. control at a cost of approximatdy 
"The housing for the current lab is S2S,OOO, according to Nelson. so antiquated that it causes A design for fabrication of un· problems in operating the equip-steady flow generator also was ment," stated Mueller. "The move added to the tunnel. "This addition will simply make a good laboratory allows us to study flows that vary even better. with time, gusts or variable wind 
"We will also be able to con-speeds," said Mueller. solidate the aerospace research "The computers we received as a 
equipment which is now in a couple gift from Project Software Develop· of different buildings under one ment Inc. a few years ago have roof," he said. greatly increased the productivity of 
Mueller and Nelson are unsure the research lab now that they are what new equipment, if any, might properly programmed to interpret be added in the new facility, but said the data received directly from the matching funds from the govern-wind tunnels," he said. 

Breen-Phillips, Farley renovations make halls more pleasant and safe 
By TED SPINELLI 
News Staff 
Residents of Breen-Phillips and Farley halls will be the first to agree that construction is a booming busi· ness on the Notre Dame campus. 
Summer renovations have left the two North Quad dormitories with rejuvenated interiors and updated facilities to meet Indiana's current fire and occupancy safety codes, ac­cording to Don Dedrick, director of the University's physical plant. 
As a result of the project, Breen-Phillips and Farley rooms have new wardrobes, freshly painted walls, new windows and new window shades. Each room also received new doors and door frames, and hall 

Security 
continuedfrom page 1 
parietal hours. According to Kol­lman, the parietal hours, which now begin at 4 p.m., have been a problem for faculty and staff leaving buildings at 5 p.m. 
The survey will determine how 
many students make use ofthe ear-corridors have been refitted with new carpeting, Dedrick said. 
To meet·the latest building safety codes, dorms have been equipped with fire doors, new fire alarms, and new smoke detectors. New emer­gency lights and a state-of-the-art sprinkler system also were installed, he said. 
"Dead-end" hallways, a possible safety hazard, have been eliminated in both dorms, said Dedrick. 
Several rooms at the end of cer­tain hallways on each floor have been combined into larger suites. In doing so, Dedrick explained, the suite door would be located nearer dormitory exits. 
Bigger improvements in the dorms include new ventilation sys-
lier parietal hours and the number of faculty and staff in favor of later parietal hours. 
The new ride board also was mentioned last night. The board, to be located in the Berezny Game Room, will be available to students for use within the next few days. 
The new board will provide stu­dents with a place to locate a ride and to find riders. 
Several paid positions are open tor 
• 
illustration • editorial cartooning 

• 
advertising art e graphics 

Come up to the Observer office on the 3rd floor ofLaFortune to apply. 

• 
Fill out a short application e Leave it with 3-5 examples of your work at the front desk. 


(Please use pen and ink or black felt tip--no ball point pen.) 
DEADLINE -5 P.M., SEPT. 4 
terns, new stair towers and storage rooms. Hall study and TV lounges have been refurbished along with all in-room lavatories, he said. 
The total cost of the Breen· Phillips and Farley renovations is Sl,750,000, which includes the cost of installing new windows in Badin Hall, he said. 
The 198'5 summer renovations are only a part of long-term projects to refurbish Notre Dame's rcsidem:e halls, he said. The hall-restoration project is scheduled to end in 1993. 
Because work on the Breen-Phillips and Farley chapels is set to take place over Christmas break, Dedrick said, il is too soon to determine which halls will be tar· geted for renovation next summer. 


Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
orientation, could not have been started on partial budgets. "It could have been very limiting," she said. 
In other senate business, Neal suggested the senate ask the Board of Trustees for a raise in the student activity fee. She said Notre Dame's 53'5 fee is SSO less than many other colleges. 
Aiso during the meeting, the senate voted to pay S200 in ex­penses that a Lyons Hall commit­tee will incur in running a volleyball tournament to benefit the Logan Center. 

FEATURING DIFFERENT NAnONAL COMEDIAN$ EVERY WEDNESDAY Ill 

The Observer 

The Obecrver/Paul Pahoresky 
The hunters 
and Lindsay Dodd were declared the winners in (left to right) Annie]enning, Maureen Connelly, last night's Class of '87 2nd Annual Super Sabina Morchau, Alycta Dodd, George Molinsky, ScavengerHunt. 
Citizens across the country enjoy Labor Day in a laborless manner 
people at a Labor Day breakfast that California and the University of unions, as well as the U.S. economy, California at Los Angeles, supported 
While Notre Daine students, are threatened by a flood of foreign by bands and cl;leerleaders, com­fllculty and staff sat in class yester­imports. peted in a sand-sculpting contest. day, most Americans hailed the But he dismissed the notion that Beverly Hills held its first-ever working person by taking the day off organized labor is weakening. Labor Day bash, with 100 Rolls­for Labor Day parades, picnics, rock "What I see today from the gras­Royces chauffeuring celebrities at music and sun-bathing. sroots up is not a weak, sick, dis­the head of the parade and gourmet Hurricane Elena, however, was no couraged labor movement," he said. food stands lining its route, which vacation for hundreds of thousands "The labor movement is the first line included posh Rodeo Drive. on the Gulf Coast. of defense and the only real avenue At San Francisco's Golden Gate 
In New York, tens of thousands of of progress for the plain people in Park, tens of thousands heard rock marchers representing hundreds of this country." stars Paul Kantner and Marty Balin, unions paraded up Fifth Avenue to Labor Day was wet and windy on co-founders ofJefferson Airplane, at press for the creation ofmore jobs. the Gulf Coast, where Hurricane a benefit concert for the city's 
"lbis is the high holy day of the Elena came ashore with wind up to hungry and homeless. working people in this country," 100 mph, ripping off roofs, uproot­By midafternoon yesterday, 345 said New York Gov. Mario Cuomo, ing trees, flooding highways and people had died on the nation's who marched in the vanguard. "It's a knocking out power to 100,000 highways during the three-day day to remember the role unions people. More than half a million Labor Day weekend. The National have played in our progress. It's a people had evacuated in Florida, Safety Council had predicted that day to recall what the situation was Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana between 450 and 550 people could before unions." as Elena approached. die in traffic accidents during the 
Cardinal John O'Connor But on Southern California's holiday weekend, beginning at 6 reviewed the parade from the steps beaches, Los Angeles County p.m. Friday and ending at midnight ofSt. Patrick's Cathedral. lifeguard Phil Tobar predicted a big­yesterday. 
"It's absolutely imperative to keep ger crowd than Sunday, when more President Reagan ended his vaca­the concept of labor and unions than a million bathers flocked to the tion yesterday at his California ranch alive," O'Connor told the marchers. ocean. and flew to Independence, Mo., to "It's so easy to forget what things "This is the last weekend at the lobby for his tax reform proposal in were like before we had unions." beach for a lot ofkids," he said. his first speech open to the general 
In El Paso, Texas, AFL-CIO Presi­At Santa Monica beach, teams public since he underwent cancer dent Lane Kirkland told about 600 from the University of Southern surgery. 
Explorers uncover ''unsinkable" Titanic 
stitutes sponsoring the expedition  Ballard  is  associated  with  the  
agreed  in  advance  not  to  make  Woods Hole Oceanographic Institu­ 
PARIS-A U.S.-French expedition  public statements on the results of  tion  in  Cape  Cod,  Mass.  Shelley  
has located the wreck of the Titanic  the search "unless they  were  ab­ Lauzon, information manager for the  
about 560 miles off Newfoundland, a  solutely certain ofthe facts."  institution, said yesterday she was  
French  government  institute  an­ Sunday night, Canada's commer­ trying to reach the Knorr to confirm  
nounced  yesterday.  The  British  cial  television  network  crv  the report.  
luxury liner struck an iceberg and sank in 1912 with the loss of 1,513 lives. "The Institute for Research and Ex­ploration of the Sea · said the wreckage, found in 13, 120 feet of water, was identified by the French­made SAR submarine sonar system and American-made ARGO under­ broadcast what it said was a ship-to­shore interviewwith Robert Ballard, an American member ofthe expedi­tion, in which he said the team found pieces of the wreck early Sunday about 360 miles south of New­foundland. According to the conversation broadcast by CTV, Ballard said from  The French agency's announce­ment said it and the Woods Hole in­stitute would hold simultaneous news conferences about the dis­covery in Paris and Washington, on Sept. 13, with the members of the expedition participating. It did not give the precise location  
water cameras. The Titanic, which its owners touted as unsinkable, was bound for New York on its maiden voyage when it went down on the night of Aprill3-14, 1912.  the U.S. Navy research ship Knorr, "We came on it early this morning. It was just bang, there it was right on top of it. Our initial reaction was excitement, then a coming down off  ofthe wreck, apparently for security reasons. At the time of the disaster, the Titanic was the largest and most luxurious ocean liner ever built. The  
In its announcement, the agency  that to realize that we hadfound the  wreck  is  believed  to  contain  a  
said the French and American in- ship where 1,500 people had died."  fortUne in jewelry and diamonds.  

Tuesday, September 3, 1985 -page 4 



Clark plans to make long distance closer 
By CHRIS SKORCZ campus representative," he said. SeniorStaffReporter The decision to use Clark was made final after Hums and a commit­
It should be easier for Notre Dame tee charged with recommending a students to reach out and touch new service toured the Clark someone this year, according to Ed fllcilities. Hums said he was Hums, assistant comptroller. impressed by Clark's switching 
Clatk long-distance service, a sub­equipment which he termed "state sidiary of the Clark equipment com­ofthe art technology." pany, has become Notre Dame's Hums also expressed hope that new long-distance telephone com­this advanced technology will afford pany. Clark replaces Campusnet, the Noire Dame's overall telephone system used by the University last service the opportunity to change as year. necessary in the future. 
Clark offered "the best overall The individual responsible for package" of services among the choosing Clark, said Hum, was several companies the comptroller's Thomas Mason, vice president of office compared, said Hums. business affairs. Mason echoed 
"Campusnet was a disaster, so late Hums' optimism. last year we looked into al­"Clark is very customer­ternatives," said Hums. "Clark ap­oriented," Mason said. pealed to us because they are a local "Furthermore they are financially company with what we perceived to sound so we can be sure that they be a genuine corporate commit­will last longer than some of the ment to quality and prompt smaller companies available." 
service." 
The most common problems with last year's service concerned billing errors and the difficulty students had in correcting these mistakes, said Hums. He hopes to be able to avoid similar problems this year. 
"Because Clark is headquartered here in South Bend, we can funnel complaints directly to the company. Last year with Campusnet, any stu­dents with problems had to refer to a 
Correction 
Because of incorrect informa­tion supplied to The Observer, former Director of Student Ac­tivities Jim McDonnell's name was misspelled in yesterday's Sena:te budget vote article. The Observer regrets the error. 
HEYNOTREDAME 
DARE TO BE STUPID ~ 
WITH Q~\C :.:L
7 
~"( ~~~ TICKETS 
~\9.Q ~ $7.50 GENERAL ADMISSION 'll~' $3.50 WITH STUDENTJ.D. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 4th, ATSTEPAN CENTER 8:00p.m. 
AVAILABLE AT THE ACC BOX OFFICE AND STUDENT RECORD STORE--LAFORTUNE 
nlverslty of Notre a me Department of Communications&. Theatre Invites 
MAJORS and STUDENTS INTERESTED IN Film/video Media Studies Theatre 
to a Reception in THE LOFT O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL Friday, September 6 3:30·5:00 pm 

Welcome Back COTH majors! 

orientation meeting for students interested In joining the largest collegiate service organiza­tion in affiliation with Kiwanis and Key Club: 
Wednesday, September 4 
Center for Social Concerns 
Regular meetings: 
6:15pm 
Wednesdays, 6:15pm Center for Social Concerns 



How to find your favorite organizations 
the farmers," said Strang. 

OPENAUDITIONS 
** ** He said other major recording
ND-SMC Production ofNoel Coward•s 
I : Sf. Mary's Activity Night : companies have joined in the effort 
and will pay for newspaper ads for

HAYFEVER 
I : TUESDAY,SEPT.3 8-10pm : 
the Sept. 16-27 sale.

Monday, Sept.2 at The Little -SMC 
! 
Tuesday, Sept. 3 at Memorial Llbrary-ND : * * 
: Angela Athletic Facility : "We've never gotten this kind of
Come Prepared With A Non-Memorized Scene From 
* iadvertising support for anything 
Hay Fever 
* else," he'said, adding each ad will : d cost nearly SI 100.
* Both SMC and ND clubs an organizations ~ ' 
&rfpte Available In Dept. Office ofSMC 110Moreau 
* will be involved!!! "Ideas like this are an important : part ofFarm Aid," said Vince Petrini, \ ' 
For Furfll.,.lrifo,...atfon Call 
* ND and SMC activities nights are on the same evening, an aide to Governor Thom.pson. 284-4640 
* SO make SUre yOU go tO bOth Ill *"People take their own partiCUlar 284-4649 
: * talents, specialities or products and* * turn them into something beneficial 
~~~~~~~=~H!!!H!!!It.....HIII...IIIIIIIHIIII...IIHIIH......HI....IIIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIII 
***********************************~ for farmers." 
99. Transfer Club 
20. lJrban League I5. lJrban Plunge 
39. Water Polo Club 
25. West Virginia Club 
65. S.T.E.P. 
44. Student Liaison Committee of Snite Museum 
46. Student Managers Organiza­tion 
13. Summer Service Project 
28. Thomas More Society 
5. 
Student Activities Board 

6. 
Student Government 


22. St. joseph's Care Center 
19. St. joseph County Juvenile Probation 
64. St. Joseph's Medical Center 
37. S.O.L.A. 
26. Southern California Club 
94. 
Spanish Club 

95. 
Spiritual Rock 


23. Sr. Marita's · Adult Literacy 
4. Scholastic 
22. Shelter for the Homeless 
98. Shenanigans 
59. 
Society of Women Engineers 

60. 
Sociology Club 


63. Pre-Professional Society 
93. Progressive Music Club 
77. Project Head Start 
92. Sailing Club 
65. Science Quarterly 
67. Notre Dame Women's Track and Cross Country 
7. The Observer 
64. Ombudsman 
37. People of Praise Club 
58. Pre-law Society 
71. Notre Dame Weightligting Club 
29. ND/SMC Women's Caucus 
6H. Notre Dame Women's Soccer Club 
43. Notre Dame Tennis Club 
45. Notre Dame Toastmasters 
92. Notre Dame Sailing Club 
75. Notre Dame Shakespeare Society 
40. ND/SMC Ski Team 
H9. Notre Dame Squash Club 
41. Notre DameJudo Club 

88. Notre Dame Taekwon Do 
56. 
Notre Dame Martial Arts Club 

57. 
Notre Dame Math Club 


47. ND/SMC Right to Life 
90. Notre Dame Rowing Club 

LLJ SINGERS DANCERS TECHNICIAN DRUMMER "'CC 
~··········.......~ 
~ ::  shenanigans  ~  
[2 0  Notre Dame's  ~  
~  ~ •  Singing and Dancing Ensemble  ~  
::J ~.  INFOBMADONAL MEETING  ~  
~  ~ •  Thanclav, Sept. 5  
"(I  ~ ~  7:Hpa SateUhe Rooa, 2acl Floor  ~  ~ (I)  
::j  ~.  O'Sh••  •  ~  
< ~·  AUDmONS  • £;  
t;).._  oilll~ ,  Moaday, Sept. 9 6:00pa·?  :  );!::1::1  
~  ~.  Be part oftlte acdonl TourBoston,  ~  
iS:  ~ ~  Cltlcago, Plttsburglt, San Diego, Atlanta  •  

~~················
Fo===·-="...".............. ....................".............. 
39. Windsurfing Club 69. World Hunger Coalition  31. Abiogenesis Dance Collective 49. AIESEC  77. American Red Cross 50. American Society of Civil En·  
9. WSND-FM 9. WVFI-AM  38. Alpha Epsilon Delta 31. Alternative Realities  gineers 51. American Society of Mechani·  
42. Young Democrats Club  66. American Lebanese Club  cal Engineers  
32. Amnesty International  


68-691.........___________, 
45-47 
90-94 

12. Neighborhood Study Help 
55. Marketing ClubProgram 73. NAACP91. Notre Dame Boxing Club 2. Non·Varsity Athletics 52. National Society of Black En·38. Notre Dame Fast-pitch Softball 

21. Northern Indiana State 
gineers54. Notre Dame Finance Club Developmental Center 83. Notre Dame Gaming Club 

99. Notre Dame Advertising Net· 
87. Notre Dame Hawaii Club work 
76. Notre Dame Amateur Radio Club 





Next aid concert to benefit farmers 
Associated Preu some of the big record companies, The lineup includes john Cougar he said. Mellencamp, Willie Nelson, the CHAMPAIGN, Ill. · Record-shop Beach Boys, Waylon jennings, B.B. 
owner Phil Strang wanted to do his "The small businessman is getting King, Billy joel, Loretta Lynn, Bob bit for the nation's struggling squeezed everywhere; It's almost Dylan, Huey Lewis and Charlie farmers, like the entenainers donat· impossible to make a living," said Pride. ing their talents for the star-studded Strang. 
Farm Aid concert. Strang, 35, said his plan "will en·
He said he thought the 12-hour 
courage people to buy the records"The saddest thing is when a event being staged in his hometown and it will give us a chance to donatebusinessman or a farmer has to go would be "an exciting event," but to a cause we believe in."

bankrupt and lose his dream," said wondered, "What can we do?" Strang, whose Record Service stores 
He decided to try his idea on RCA

The answer was in the racks ofal· records, asking if the company in Champaign-lJrbana are planning a 
bums · many recorded by three would pay for a half-page advertise·sale on records featuring Farm Aid dozen rock, country and blues stars ment in the local newspaper. 
artists · with SI from each transac­
expected for the Sept. 22 concert in the lJniversity of Illinois football The plan has drawn support from stadium. 
tion going to Farm Aid. 
He said RCA officials responded: "How about a whole page?" 
"The publicity will help

j**********************************i 
everybody and the money will help

* * 
48. Arts and Letters Business Society 
33. Baptist Student lJnion 
62. Biology Club 
72. Black Cultural Arts Council 
21. Boys Club ofSouth Bend 
16. 
Center for Social Concerns ­Mexico City 

17. 
Center for Social Concerns . 


Washington I 0. C.I.L.A. 
II. Circle K 
3. College Bowl 
30. College Republicans 
86. Collegiate Choir 
63. Communications and Theatre 
I. Counseling and Psychological Services 
79. 
Council for Fun and Learning 

80. 
Council for the Retarded 


8. The Dome 
14. DuComb Center, lJnited Religious Community 
34. Entrepreneur Society 
34. 
Environmental Concerns Or­ganization 

35. 
F.L.O.C. 


27. Fellowship of Christian Ath· letes 
96. Foreign Study Programs 
35. ICHTHlJS 
74. India Asociation 
97. International Students Organization 
81. The japan Club 
36. Knights ofColumbus 82. L-5 Society 
53. League of Black Business Stu· dents 
18. Madison Center 
61. Management Club 






Father sends advice to his freshman daughter 
My DearBabygirl: 
Mom and I have returned home safely and still are full of the infectious enthusiasm which orientation weekend gave us. We are so proud ofyou! What a great opportunity Notre Dame offers you to become "that better per­son." The house seems a little quieter, definitely a lot cleaner, but a bit empty wit­hout you and your brother. 
Robert Burtchaell guest column 
Today your Mom and I start our 21st year ol marriage.I remember back when someone would talk about someday having kids in col­lege, I would pass it off as ifit were I00 years down the road. Well, it was not. I want you to be happy, little girl, and I want you to be safe. You already are caring, friendly and honest, the kind of girl that would make any father proud. That is why you have been selected as special, and accepted into the Notre Dame family. Now the burden ofgrowth has moved to your shoulders. The decisions you make can affect your entire future, and sometimes the future ofthose near you. 
Let me tell you a little secret. All those times you thought I was so smart, I had help! And so do you. God is our friend and it is evident that 
Doonesbury 
he spends a good deal oftime on your campus. I saw Him in the peacefulness ofyour hall rec­tor, in the tone of sincerity with which Emil Hofman spoke, in the welcomes the kids gave one another as they were returning, in the thoughts that Digger Phelps shared with us, in the smiles and good manners of your dorm's orientation committee and in the real interest Sister Jean Lenz showed in our family. Notre Dame is lucky to have you! You will help make Notre Dame a better place, and it .will help make you a fuller, better person. Both ofyou, the school of Our Lady and 'my most dear daughter, are growing. It is very exciting to me. 
I would not be the same old Dad ifI did not give you a few last reminders, some negative, some positive: Do not throw your clothes on the floor. Do not let booze become a big part of your life. Do not chew gum with your mouth open. 
As you know, your Mother and I love each other very much, and today is special in memory. I once heard a person say that ifyou want to love your wife, then love her children. I do! We love you very much. 
If you want to love Mom and I, then love yourself, and this, my daughter, can be done by loving God. 
Robert Burtchaell is the father ofa fresh­man atNotre Dame. 
I 5UPP0581AJ!3'o (()'./­

OH)AJetL,7HA7's {)!F­5/!J!31< A TIAJ0-8WROOM 
ftRENT. IEMMtSE£, AmRIM!3NT, ?HOUGH. 
A 7W0-8WfltXJM PREFeRABL.Y IAJ/7H 
64f?!JEN APARTMENT A GA/?J:J&N. \ 
FOR1350.. GOSH, !AJ&'R/3 fRESH OUT! I 
Tu-es-da-y,S-ep-te-mb-er-3,_19-85_-_pa-ge-6 
P.O.BoxQ 
wondering-and, ifnothing else, I really would
Student body must give 
like to have them back. They are oflittle use to you unless your name is Jeffrey. If it is, then
team its full support 
you, thief, might be able to show them to DearEditor: people and make them think even a scumbag 
When I was a freshman at Notre Dame, Ara like you can get a girlfriend. Ifyou do not want Parsegian was in his last year of coaching. To them for that, though, please send them back my surprise, people in the stands were to me at 1014 Eddy, South Bend, 46617. criticizing him. It was a very telling observa­I do not know whether the criminal who tion. After all he had done for Notre Dame -I stole my property will see this letter, but I could not believe it. hope many young members of the class of 
Last year our own fans booed our football 1989 see it and are warned. Yes, there are team. That really hurt. Again, I could not thieves at Notre Dame and it may, as in my believe it. case, take three years to find that out. But they 
My plea is this: loyalty. The team gives "all are there and I hope they do not get you like they've got" -the student body has to do the they got me. same. When the team needs it the most show jeffrey Griffin them all the support you can. Really let them Notre Dame Student know you are behind them. Give them "everything you've got!" 
Paul Coppola Dissention is promoted 
N_otre DameAlumnus New Rochelle, New York by secularism at ND 
Students should realize ND does have thieves 
DearEditor: 

This is an open letter to the member of the Notre Dame community who chose to save himself a few bucks on a book bag and steal mine from in front of the Notre Dame bookstore on August 27. I must compliment you on your choice. It's a blue L.L. Bean model, one of the best types around for the money. You saved yourselfabout $18 right off the bat. You also got yourselfa gold Cross pen that my uncle, a 1950 Notre Dame graduate, gave me for graduation from high school. It's probably worth about $25. Then there is the Tl-35 calculator that was in the zip pocket, which probably retails now for about n 5. 
In case you plan to use the checks in my checkbook, First Federal of Michigan already has been notified; the account is frozen, and you will probably get the FBI on your trail should you be ignorant enough to use them. 
Maybe you will also get some enjoyment out of the new five by seven inch picture frame I had bought that day at the bookstore. It was meant to hold a picture ofmy girlfriend, a Saint Mary's student who is in India for the semester. The two notes inside the cover of the calculator are from her -in case you were 
DearEditor: 

It is ironic that Notre Dame, once the bed of Catholic action in the United States, from whence spread the Young Christian Student (YCS) and Young Christian Workers in the 30s and the Christian Family Movement ( CFM) in the 40s, has allowed the thistles of Secular Modernism to choke out the lay apost­ulate which introduced Christian principles into America's economic and political life and which had a great influence on Vatican II. 
The school ofOur Lady where Fulton Sheen and a host of outspoken Catholics expanded the Faith now invites discredited theologians like Hans Kung, and ambitious politicians like Gov. Cuomo who denies the obligation oflay apostolic action in public life to oppose the Church's teachings. 
Leading opponents to the Church's most basic teaching on the sanctity of human life like Eleanor Smeal and Catholics for a Free Choice for Abortion are given the prestige of the Notre Dame podium to give credibility to their anti-Catholic views. 
This is a scandal, not freedom ofexpression, and Mary must weep when she sees her school promoting dissention with her Son's Church. 
Burnie Bauer Notre DameAlumnus South Bend, Indiana 


99.9 PERCENT 
That is the percentage of letters to the editor thatwe print.Write us.. 
joe Murphy, Viewpoint Editor P.O.BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the day 
"The opposite oflove is not hate-it's apathy." 
Leo Buscaglia 
Love 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-m-Ch1ef _ . __ . Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager. . Dav1d Stephen1tch The Observer is the independent newpaper published by the students of the 
Managmg Ed1tor. .... Amy Stephan Advert1smg Manager Anne Cull1gan News Editor. .K~ Harrison_Jr. Controller Bill Hlghducheck
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
News Editor. Dan McCullough Systems Manager. Mark B. Johnson
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution_ The news is reported as 
Sa1nt Mary's Executive Ed1tor Theresa Guanno Productwn, Manager_ John A. Men nell 
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
Sports Editor_ . . Jeff Blumb 
of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column 
Accent Editor_ . Mary Healy present the v1ews of their authors. Column space 1s available to all members of the Viewpoint Ed1tor .. Joe Murphy commun,ty_ and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Photography Editor Peter C. Laches IS CiiCOuraged Copy Ch1ef Frank L1po Founded November 3, 1966 

The ND hockey team will have physicals for veteran and prospective players tonJsbt at 9 p.m. in the training room in the ACC. Before taking physicals, all players must pick up a questionaire before 6 p.m. at the hockey office. -The Obseroer 
The ND Women's GolfClub finished fourth in an eight-team fitld ~ast weekend in the third annual Labor Day Weekend Tournament on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Purdue won the tournament,with a combined score of 629, and Southern Illinois and Wisconsin-White Water also finished ahead of Notre Dame's 685. Laura Gleason led the Irish with scores of 82 and 81. The club will play next on Sept. 1 3 and 14 at Ferris State. -The Obser­llt'r 
In the NVA biathlon last Saturday, Steve 
Pophal came in first with a time of 23:57 for the half-mile swim and two-mile run. Holllanne Logan finished second in 24:03, Sandy Gresko was third in 24:31 and Mark Harris came in fourth in 25:04. Twenty-seven participants started the race, and 25 of them were able to finish. -The Obseroer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be giving free lessons for new members today and tomorrow at 4 p.m. on St. joseph's Beach. Anyone interested in force 4 wind and wave jum­ping is asked to attend. · The Obseroer 
"Speaking of Sports," a weekly sports talk show, returns to the air tonight at 10 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. Usteners may share their sports questions and comments with cohosts Chuck Freeby and Kevin Herbert by calling 239-6400. ·The Obseroer 
The ND Women's Softball Club will have a 
meeting for all new and returning fastpitch players tomorrow at 5 
p.m. in room 409 Farley. Anyone who is unable to attend should call Marilu at 283-4189. -The Obseroer 
The ND Squash Club will be meeting Thursday at 
6:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre in LaFortune. Anyone who Is in­terested may attend. Both hardball and softball players are welcome. For more information, call William Mapother at 283-3451. ·The Ob­seroer 
200 Michigan football tickets will be offered for sale to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students this week. Anyone who is interested may sign up for a lottery on Friday between 1 p.m. and 4:30p.m. at the OBUD desk on the first floor of LaFortune. Lot­tery winners will be posted on Sunday, and each winner will be allowed to purchase one or two tickets. -The Obseroer 
A grad-faculty tennis tournament will be held by NVA. There will be men's and women's singles and mixed doubles divisions. The deadline for entries is tomorrow at the NVA office in the ACC. For more information, call239-6100. ·The Obser­ver 
A scuba-diving course is being offered by NVA. Anyone who is interested should attend an information meeting tomorrow at 6 p.m. in room 219 ofthe Rockne Memorial Building. · The Obseroer 
Aerobics for men and women are being of­
fered by NVA. Classes begin tomorrow, and will meet on Mondays and Wednesdays at 4 p.m. and 5:10p.m. and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4 p.m. There will be a small fee for students, faculty and staff. Anyone who is interested may register in advance at the NVA office or before class in ACC Gym 4. For more information, call NVA at 239-6100. -The Obseroer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every brief must include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Obseroer 
-
NFL rosters cut down to 45-man limit 
Aaeoclatcd Pre1111 
Four veteran quarterbacks were among the familiar names cut yester­day, while another was sidelined by a fractured ankle as National Foot­ball League teams reduced their rosters to the regular season 45­player limit. 
Jim Zorn, jack Thompson, Bob Avellini and joe Pisarcik all were dropped as teams prepared for next Sunday's openers. Houston's Oliver Luck suffered "a slight fracture" of his left ankle, leaving the Oilers with only starter Warren Moon available for the opener. 
Zorn, an original member of the club, was released by the Seattle Seahawks. Thompson, known as the Throwin' Samoan during his college days at the University of Was­hington, was waived by Tampa Bay. Avellini was dropped by the New YorkJets and Pisarcik was cut by the Miami Dolphins. 
Other veterans who did not survive their teams' final cuts in· eluded running back Ron Springs and wide receiver Duriel Harris of the Dallas Cowboys, safety Beasley Reece of Tampa Bay, nose tackle Ken Kremer of Kansas City, linebacker Dan Bunz of the Super Bowl champion San Francisco 49ers and running back Mike Pruitt of the Cleveland Browns. 

The Ohsen•t•r Notre: Dame: olfkc:. Jocatnl on the: third lloor of l.afortum· Studt·nt Ct•ntt•r. accc:pts classified advc:rti,in)l from') a.m. until-~ p 111.. .\londa~ throuRh l·ri<lay. The Ohserr•er Saint Maq ·, olfit'l'. lt>t·atc:d on tht· thirlllloor of lla)l)lar Collc:)lc: Ct·ntc:r. accept' da,sifit·d, from 1..?..~0 p.m until .~ p m. Mon· day though fridav lka<llinc: for nc:xt·da\ da"itlt·d, b .~ p 111. All das,ific:d' must ht· prepaid. t·ithc:r in pc:r">n or hy mail <:har)lt' i' I 0 c't'nb pc:r tl\'e t·harac
Classifieds 
ters c:r day. 
NOTICES 
$10-1360 WMklyNp ~ling Ci<cua.r.t No ~quOIMI Sitl<*lly t-ed 
rulh Mlf·--envelope: Dept AM­
7CEO. PO Box 830, Wocdlod<. IL IIOOe8 
TYPING AVAilABlE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHfll8 ~e.l' 
SAVE $$S ON YOUR TEXTS!! USED CLASS BOOKS IIOUGHT AND SOLO. PRESENT THIS AD AND RECEIVE AN EXTRA S5 OFF OF S50 PURCHASE. PANDORA'S BOOKS 1137 SO. BEND AVE. 233-2342 
Lovtng molher wtl IIM>yatt in her home jul1 nor1h of campua 2n-2484. 
HAIRCUTS 3.50-REFERENCES-CALL B1Llll4100 
Rtde n<Nided to Untv-ty of MiiiOUn, Columbia Of St. LoUta on ~27: r11um. ~ 2il C..21M11 , late nighta. 
EXPERT TYPING 2n·8534 AFTER 5:30 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: L.L.Bean blue book bag from ouW~de the NO bookalote on 8/27 con­lerna -• black eheckbook.Ti 35 cat­eulatot.llofd Croea pen. brown not­With OOUI'M lehedula and OOUI'M adjull· mant lotma. c;-. In a tuck <aaa,tan Ray Ban caaa and other lf1Jdee. REWARD olfered call JEFF GRIFFIN 
288·53!12 
FOUND: clue nng ,_ Mom-y· call 3413 to tdantily 
ORTHOOONTIC RETAINER found B/28 tn Admin Bldg It Illite you ll'a yourw. c .. &an 23~5n2 to clam. 
REWAAD--REWAP.D-·REWAP.D­LOST AMETHYST and GOLD BEADED BRACELET GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO MEl! IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL GRETCHEN. AT 321111 
Pu-watch to.t In South dtrong h.. dUnng lunch on Tu-y. It found, pi­call Mike at 1644. High aenltmental value $REWARDS 
Red and blue w..et, thei.O. cardaweim­portanl. PI-call J.A. ll2060 
Gray purae loat in St. Ed"a ladtee rflltroom, pt-call1614. 
LOST Old brown dockatd.,. at Dun. on Saturday Golf club at Burl<e G.C. : Haist Ultra Sand Wedge on 1 Blh hole Sr-•d$ at2387 
FOR RENT 
APARTMENT FOR RENT PERFECT FOR GRAD. STUDENT. 1-1/2 BEDROOM, ALL UTILITIES. STOVE AND RE'FRIG. FURNISHED. EASY WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS ONE YEAR'S LEASE. NO PETS OR CHILDREN. $275/MONTH. $200 DAMAGE DEPOSIT. REFERENCES REQUIRED. CALL 232·1405DAYS: 2n­0151 EVENINGS. 
Pnvate entrance. two room turnitlhed, utilttt" p11d. Can motmnga 2B8-otl55. 
FEMALE ROOMATES WANTED AT 
N.D. APTI. PLEASE CONTACT ANNE ATHOO 
EFF.APT.cloee to campua.Ktlchen,balh.watk in d.234-6647 
~...--1_W_A_N_TE_D___J 
wanted 2 gu to any home games call 272-3481 
Need extra eah? Wanted: a rMp008ibla peroon wiling to babyalt on -.ndllot South Band reatdant. Cell Patty Coralran at272-6464. 
COMPUTER RETAIL STORE NEEDS STUDENTS, HOURS FLEXIBLE PART TIME $3.35 HOUR 2n-5026 ASK FOR RAY 
..............~~. .... 
Need nde to TERRE HAUTE any weekends ot break. Call Tom x 154 5 mghta. 
SMC faculty person ia seektng a aludent to help dean my cluay btg old houae on Thuradaya dunng the aehool year. 234­4498, $4. per hour. 
DELIVERY PERSON WANTED. MUST HAVE OWN CAR PART-TIME EVENINGS. APPLY IN PERSON RICCO'S OLOE HOUSE PIZZERIA, t30 DIXIEWAY NO..ACROSS FROM BIG C LUMBER. 
NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO BUFFALO. NY LEAVING 9/6 AND RETURNING 9/8 CALL ANNIE AT 4012 Need ride ot ndera to INin011 State Univer­sity. Leave Friday, Sept. 5th return Sun­day Sept. 7th. Call John at X2153 

····················· 

RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO OR NORTHWEST AREA THIS FRIDAY 916 ANYTIME 284-4401 
ATIENTlON: NOTRE DAME AND HOLY CROSS STUDENTS POSITONS OPENED MONDAY. WEDNESDAY. AND FRIDAYS 11AM TO 1:30 PM. APPLY IMMEDIATELY AT ST. MARY'S DINING HALL EOE. 
FOR SALE 

......................... Ia It True You Can Buy Jeepa lot $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facta today• Call 1-312-742-1142, Ext. 7316. 
Metal bookahelvtng, 36'x12'x72' high. 272­6358 Of see at 18408 Douglu Rd. (hall mtle eut ot Credit Union). 
TYPEWRITER: small portable electronic. Call5435daya:256-1312 eve. 
ALRIGHT, who needs floppy disks lot clue? Only $1.50. and guaranteed. Call John at 3673. BEAT the BOOKSTORE 
62 VALIANT, REBUILT ENGINE, CALIF CAR-SOLID BODY, STEEL RADIALS MANY NEW PARTS, $750 OR BEST OF­FER, 287-7400 OR 239-6226 
···························· .............•.. FOR SALE 10 IN B&W TV ONE YEAR OL03240 
FOR SALE: 2 matchtng bedspreads $50 )(2600 
STEREO EQUIPMENTII Otaeount Pncea. Over 50 Majot Brands, Full Warrantee, VISA/MASTER. Call scon: 283-2088 
TICKETS 

WILLING TO TRADE LSU. MISS, ARMY NAVY FuR MSU. CALL SCOTI X1924. 
I DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS -WILLING TO NEGOTIATE ON PRICES. CALL ANN MARIEAT2B4·4159 
DESPERATELY NEED MICHIGAN STATE Till FOR UTILE SIS. URGENT' IF I DON'T GET THESE MY PARENTS WILL NEVER FORGIVE ME! TRADE FOR OTHER HOME GAMES OR MANY $$$.CALL JOHN AT t158. 
Help! I desperately need 1 ticket to the MSU game. Money no object. Call Becky at3525. 
NEED 20R4 MICH ST GAs Will Pay$$ Call Jim 283·3527 
DESPERATELY NEED THREE TICK· ETS TO THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME!! 284-4099 
NEED 1 TICKET FOR MICHIGAN STATE, 2 FOR SOUTHERN CAL, CALL TOMHAT3175 
............................................... PLEASE HELP! I NEED 3 G.A.'S TO. THE ARMY GAME OCT.11 AND II G.A.'S TO MSU OR 111881181PPI. IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL MEL AT3433. 
Need 1 or 2 Mich St Tix. Cal Bil J<3515. $$ no object. 
HELP! HELP! deaparately need one ot two ttekets to MSU game coat no iuue' Call Dave at 2048 
I have Michigan and Mich. St.licketa. Beat otter. Call Erie 1527 
........................ I need 2 and/ot 4 GA's lot Michigan State as aoon as poaaible. Call Mike at1806 
I NEED USC GA'a Have euh & home GA's tor trade: Call DAVE 1712 
Need two ttX to Army game lot folks Wil· ling to pay good money. Call1560. 
NEED MSU TICKET BAD CALL ANDY 272-6783
I PERSONALS 
Interested in lnter-Varaity Chriotian Fel­lowship? Call Sheila 1965, Kevin 1883 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-200 30 daya 1/ tnterest 11:30-12:30 M·F LaFortune Basement 

ATIENTION TRANSFERS WE NEED YOUR NAMES AND PHONE NUMBERS FOR TRANSFER ACTIVITIES AND ESPECIALLY THE ADOPT-A­TRANSFER PROGRAM. SIGN UP AT ACTIVITIES NIGHT OR STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICES (SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE) 
WE HAVE 4 TIX TO SPRINGSTEEN IN INDY SEPT. & ......... ... and you don'I! Call 1820 so we can gloat! 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.. 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
CIMalcelguiW IMaona lot begonn"" & intermediates; reuoneble rata. Cal Cu· aian at239-5699 ot 288-4945 
HELLO.. 
KNOCK KNOCK 
MCFLY 
HELLO.. 
PRETZELS PRETZELS PRETZELS PRETZELS 
REGINA MONTHLY MOVIE NIGHT 
BLAZING aADDLEI BLAZING aADDLES BLAZING aADDLES BLAZING aADOLES WEDNESDAY NIGHT AT 11:30 
AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS AUDI­TIONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS Notre Oame'l SOngtng and Dancing Ensemble il looi<Jng lot tun and talented individualll to lilt the lolowing poaitlona: Singara, Oaneara, Technician, Photographer, Pianiat, Sua Guitarill, IN­FORMATION MEETING Thurwday, Sept. 5, 7:00pm Satellite Room. 2nd Floor O'Shag AUDITIONS Monday. Sept. 9, 
6:00 • ? Tour ptan1 tnelude Boeton, Chteago, Ptltaburgh, Atlanta, San Otego AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS AUDI­TIONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS SHENANIGANS AUOI· TIONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS 
BAHAMAS! Two tieketa at savtngs. Call 4033 "'4055 NO. A chance you shouldn't pueupl! 
thanks lot the help lutspnng St Jude 
Wanted:BABYSITIERS:pl.ltme daya/nitea/wkenda:need car Of trana. 5 mi. from campua:3kid8:1,4,6 In our home.call2n-8807 Bam-10pm 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS Important Seniot Prt!t·law Society Meeting: Sept. 3. 7:30, Lib. Aud. Topiea Include: LIAT, PER­SONAL STATEMENTS, APPUCA· TIONI, MUCH MORE THOUGHT: The word "procrutlnallon' anda the aama aa doaa "r-tactton' 
LOOK FOR ND/SMC SAILING CLUB BOOTH AT ACTIVITIES NIGHT· LESSONS BEGIN AT BEGINNERS LEVEL-COME AND FIND OUT MORE TUESDAY NIGHT! 
DOC PIERCE'S ia accepting applicattons lot part-time food server. Muat be 21. Ex­pertence '" food "' liquot aervtee helpful. 
Apply in paraon 3-5 p.m. 120 N. Matn, Mtshawaka. 

WARNING: IF YOU RECEIVE A CALL FROM EO GAUSMAN OR GRACE 215 AND YOU HAVEN'T MET ME THEN YOU AND I ARE HAVING A JOKE PLAYED ON US. I DO NOT HAVE YOUR MAIL. SO LAUGH AT THEM BUT DON'T BELIEVE IT. 
PLEASE HELP-I NEED 3 G.A.'I TO THE ARMY OAME OCT. 11 AND t G.A.'I TO IIIU OR ltii881881PPI. IF YOU CAN HELP, CALL MELAT3433. 
MARIA. WE MISS YOU! THE GANG AT CAMUS VIEW 
IENIORIISign-upa lot Brunch at Tip­pecanoe II TONIGHT Sapt.3 lrom6-8pm LaFonune Into I>Mk.Bruneh 11 .Sunday Sept.8 llam.Gratuitl• included in $11 ticket priee.Umited Space! 
M.M.· THERE IT IS AGAIN! A FULl MAIL­BOX IS A HAPPY MAILBOX. WHAT WERE YOU DOING IN FRONT OF THE 
K. OF C. HALL? YOU COCKAROACHI 
IT'S GOOD TO SEE YOU BACK AGAIN. SIGNED: THE SECRET ADMIRER. 
Jannll•. Otd you ever have one of thoae ctaya when you teal ltke everyone 11 rip· ping ycu oH? What doea NO do wtlh that $24,000 of eJCira revenue from our tootball beketa?' Are you tired of dealtng With In­competent people at a namelela Of· ganization? Another year of puning up with B.S. We'll get through. Love. Your deeol'atot of a roommate. 
Thank you St. Jude lot anawering my oummerpray..... 
AFRAID OF PUBLIC SPEAKING? NO TOAITIIASTERI CAN HELP MEETINGS EVERY WED 6:30 HAYES HEALY ALL ARE WELCOME QUES­TIONS? CALL RACE 272-2478 
HAPPY aiRTHDAY Jill GROWl Yes lolk1l Our ltnte Jtmmy hu croued that magtc barrter and ia now 21 YEARS OLDII Say. Jim, old buddy, can you ptek me up a cue ot Mtek Ltte? LAW 
YESTERDAY, You should ltve how you dnnk: FAST AND EASY 
I'VE GOT SOMETHING EVERYBODY WANTS! 4 Till TO SEE THE BOSS AT INDY SEPT. 6. MAKE ME AN OFFER I CAN'T REFUSE ... CALL LARRY AT 4134 
Dear MORONI ot the NOH -Th11 ''very 11mple: It you are IN the dell·ltn... STAY in the deli-linea WE ARE WATCHING YOU II 
-The Observer Tuesday, September 3, 1985-page 8 
Cardinals lose to Reds by score of 
Major League Standings 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NAnONAL LEAGUE Eut bat
4-1; Mets close to within one game 
Aasodated Press 

ST. LOUIS -Dave Parker hit a two­run homer in the sixth inning, powering the Cincinnati Reds to a 4­1 triumph yesterday over the St. Louis Cardinals behind eight-hit pitching by Tom Browning andJohn Franco. 
Cincinnati player-manager Pete Rose was hitless in three official trips, leaving him five shy of Ty Cobb's lifetime major-league hit record of 4,191. 
Rose, however, walked on four pitches preceding Parker's 24th homer, a blow into the right-field bleachers offJoaquin Andujar, 20-8, that gave the Reds a 3-0 lead. 
The loss was the fourth in five games for the Cardinals, who started the night two games ahead of New York in the National League East. 
Browning, the majors' winningest rookie pitcher with a 15-9 record, protected a shutout until there were two outs in the seventh. Willie McGee, the major leagues' leading hitter, hit his eighth homer and second in two days. 
A crowd of 29,026 boosted St. Louis' home attendance to 2,014,129 in 61 games. It marked the fourth straight year the club has topped the 2 million mark. 
Astros 7, Cubs 2 
CHICAGO -Eric Bullock's first 

major league hit, a tie-breaking, two­
run pinch double in the fifth inning 
yesterday helped the Houston 
Astros defeat the Chicago Cubs 7-2. 
Kevin Bass opened the fifth with a 

single and went to third on Mark 
Bailey's double. Bullock doubled 
both runners home and scored on a 
single by Denny Walling. 
Nolan Ryan started for the Astros but left in the first inning with a strain in his right shoulder after al­lowing two runs. 
Bill Dawley, 3-2, took over and was credited with the victory. Charlie Kerfeld pitched 4 1-3 in­nings for the Astros before giving way to Dave Smith for the last two outs. Jay Baller, 0-3, was the loser. 
Phillies 4, Giants 3 

SAN FRANCISCO -Tom Foley beat out an infield single and later scored on pinch-hitter Luis Aguayo's double in the lOth inning yesterday to give the Philadelphia Phillies a fifth straight victory, 4-3 over the San Francisco Giants. 
Foley went from first to third when Giant reliever Mike Jeffcoat, 0­2, made a throwing error on a pick­off attempt. Aguayo hit for winning pitcher Don Carman, 7-4, and doubled to left field. 
Dave Shipanoff, Philadelphia's fifth pitcher of the game, worked a perfect lOth to earn his third save. 
San Francisco starter Vida Blue went eight innings, allowing six hits and three runs. He retired 12 straight batters before wall0ng the leadoff man in the ninth, and Greg Minton relieved him at that point. 
Steve Carlton, who had been on the Phillies' disabled list for 1 0 weeks because of an arm problem, pitched three-hit ball over the first five innings in a strong return perfor­mance. 
Pirates 5, Braves 4 

PITTSBURGH -Mike Brown hit his first National League home run, a three-run shot in the first inning, and led the Pittsburgh Pirates to a 5-4 win over the Atlanta Braves yester­day. 
Singles by Joe Orsulak, Steve Kemp and Jason Thompson produced a run before Brown's homer over the left-field wall. The outburst came against Atlanta's Rick Mahler, 17-13. 
Lee Tunnell, 2-9, earned his first win since July 21, pitching 6 1-3 in­nings. Cecilia Guante finished for his third save. 
The Braves have now lost three straight after winning their first five games under manager Bobby Wine. ap-na-09-02-85 1543est 
Orioles 12, A's 4 

BALTIMORE-Cal Ripken hit two homers and drove in six runs yester­day to power the Baltimore Orioles past the Oakland A's 12-4. 
Ripken, who drove in a first­inning run with a groundout, keyed a seven-run second inning with a three-run homer, his first blast in 16 games. He hit his 20th home run of the season, a two-run shot, in the eighth off Jeff Kaiser. 
Ripken entered the game with only one homer in his last 28 games and two in his previous 41. He has now driven home 93 runs this season. 
Winner Scott McGregor, 11-12, who allowed three homers, two by Dwayne Murphy and one by Steve Henderson, pitched 5 2-3 innings for his third victory over the A's this year. Ken Dixon allowed one hit over the final 3 1-3 innings and struck out five for his first save. 
w L Pet. GB Toronto 
82 49 .626 

17 52 .597 4 Detroit 
New York 

70 60 .538 1t.5 Battimore 
68 60 .531 12.5 Bolton 
62 68 .477 19.5 Milwaukee 
59 69 .461 21.5 Cleveland 
47 84 .359 35 W•t California 
74 57 .565 

70 58 .547 2.5
~<a'-~ City 

67 64 .511 7 Chicago 64 65 .496 9 Seattle 
Oakland 

60 71 .458 14 Minnaeota 
59 70 .457 14 Texae 
49 81 .377 24.5 
llondlly'alleaulta New York 8, Seattla 7 Cllifornia 11, Datroit 1 Toronto3, Cteveland2 Baltimore 12, Oakland 4 Bolton 11, Texae2 Kaneaa City 3, Chicago 2 Minnesota 6, Milwaukee 1 
Angels 11, Tigers 1 

DETROIT -George Hendrick blasted a three-run home run and Bobby Grieb homered with the bases empty yesterday, sparking the California Angels to an l I-I rout of the Detroit Tigers. 
Jim Slaton, 6-10, held the Tigers to four hits in eight innings. Then after allowing two singles with no outs in the ninth, he was relieved by Donnie Moore, who retired the side. 
Yankees 8, Mariners 7 

NEW YORK-Dave Winfield drove in four runs with a three-run homer and sacrifice fly and Dave Righetti picked up his 24th save as the New York Yankees hung on to defeat the Seattle Mariners 8-7 yesterday. 
The Yankees jumped to a 7-0 lead after two innings off starter and loser Frank Wills, 4-7, but Seattle battled back and knocked out starter Ron Guidry, 17-5, with two runs in the 
w L Pet. QB St. Louie 
78 50 .609 New York 
78 52 .600 1 Montreal 
71 59 .546 8 Chicago 
63 66 .488 15.5 Philadelphia 
63 66 .488 15.5 Pitllburgh 
41 87 .320 37 W•t LoeAngetee 
75 53 .586 Cincinnati 
69 60 .535 6.5 San Diego 
69 61 .531 7 Houlton 
61 68 .473 14.5 Atlanta 
55 74 .426 20.5 San Francieco 
51 78 .395 24.5 
Monclay'a Raaulta Pitllburgh 5. Atlanta 4 Houlton 7. Chicago 2 Philadelphia 4, San Francieco3, 10 inngl. Cincinnati 4, St. Louil 1 Los Angeles 5, Montreal4, 11 inngl. New York 12. San Diego 4 

fourth, one in the fifth and three more in the sixth. 
Righetti, the Yankees' fourth pitcher, allowed a run in the ninth on Bob Kearney's two-out RBI single. Righetti then struck out Jack Perconte to end the game. 
Blue Jays 3, Indians 2 

TORONTO lloyd Moseby singled home Ernie Whitt in the seventh inning to snap a 2.-2 tie Mon­day and lead the Toronto Blue Jays to a 3-2 victory over the Cleveland Indians. 
With one out in the seventh, Whitt doubled to left center and, one out later, Moseby lined a 3-2 pitch up the middle off Curt Wardle, 6-6. 
Dave Stieb, with relief help from Tom Henke, who earned his ninth save, boosted his record to 13-9. It was a struggle for Stieb, who gave up nine hits, all singles, in his seven­inning stint. He walked two and struck out six. 


The Observer 
Tuesday, September 3, 1985 -page 9 
King gets second victory this year with win in LPGA Charity Classic 
Aslloclated Press women's golf tour, tied for third at 8 Lopez shot a 5-under-par 67 but under par. Dale Eggeling, Martha never came closer than two strokes SPRINGFIELD, Ill. -Betsy King Nause and Kathy Morse were to the leaders. birdied five holes on the back nine knotted at 7 under. 
Jane Blalock's 66 was the best
yesterday to break out ofa tight pack Chris Johnson, the leader after the 
round ofthe day and moved her into
and claim a two-stroke victory over first and second rounds of the three­
lOth place. 
Janet Anderson in the LPGA rail . day tournament, tied for eighth, five Charity Classic. shots behind King. King, the 1984 LPGA Player ofthe It was the second victory this year Year, made pars on the first nine foe King, who is sixth on the 
Frosh l
j
holes before her birdie spree women's pro tour money list this started. She finished with an It­year. continuedfrom page 12 under-par 205 in the 54-hole tourna­Anderson birdied six holes but pected to return this week. 
1
ment. said It was a bogey on the seventh Wideouts Milt Jackson and Alvin 
j
At one point late in the S185,000 hole that salvaged her round. After Miller didn't play either, but should tournament, six players were tied putting her tee shot on the par-3 be back soon. . . Final scrimmage, l for the lead, but when others began hole in a water hazard, she sank an closed to the public, will be 4 to fade, King got hot, sinking five 80-foot pitch from a bunker to make Thursday afternoon. . . Faust on j birdie putts, all from within 15 feet. !Jogey. Purdue, which lost to Pitt, 31-30, 
"I was hitting the ball well all day," Anderson had a chance to tie King Saturday afternoon: "I was j said King, 30, Limekiln, Pa. "It was on the 18th hole and force a playoff. impressed with the way they moved just going to be a matter ofwhether I But her drive ended up in deep the football, but we always knew could sink any putts. Once you make rough and her second shot landed in they were strong offensively. a couple, you feel like you're going a bunker. Her attempt at the tieing They've got a young offensive line, to sink some more." birdie from the bunker slipped past so I think you can look for (QB Jim)
Mark Green, one ofthree tailbacks in this year's freshman class, is 
Mary Beth Zimmerman, playing the hole. Everett to throw a lot, because pass 
shown in action during an Irish practice session. Cun-ently, Green 
just 50 miles from her Hillsboro, Ill., Anderson said the tournament blocking is easier than run block­
ts working at tbe wide receiver position to take better advantage of 
home, and Nancy Lopez, the leading was her best since she won the 1982 ing." Irish face Boilermakers In West
his speed. For more on tbe freshmen, see Larry Burke's story onpage 
money-winner on the 1985 U.S. womens Open.
12. 
Get our new $49* software module when you buy an HP-41. 
It's a deal that has no equal, for a calculator that has no equaL 
Our new HP-41 Advantage software module packs 12K of ROM. One and a half times the capacity of any other HP-41 module. Large enough to hold the most popular engineering, mathematical and financial pro­grams ever written for the HP-41. 
You get comprehensive advanced matrix math func· tions, roots of equations and polynomials, integrations, base conversion and logic functions, and time value of money functions. 
Our new module is also sub-programmable. So you can quickly access just a portion of a program, or trans­fer that section to your own program. 
And it's even menu-driven. That eliminates overlays ··· .and reduces the number of prol!lrts .. · In short, you get everythmg tt s gomg to take to help the grade in everything from Linear Algebra 
to Electronics to Statics and Dynamics. . . HP-41 is a deal all its own. Its operatin~ · · is so advanced, it doesn't need an "equals' 
Little wonder it's preferred by more engineers any other calculator. · is a limited time offer. Call (800) FOR­. Ask for Dept. 658B. We'll instantly give name of a dealer who has no equal. now. The phone call is free. our new module won't be for long. 
F~3 HEWLETT 
·E~ PACKARD 
I'm a student who has no equal. Here's my proof-of-purchase to prove it. Please send me my free software module. 
Name 
Address 

City State Zip 
Phone Number 

HP·41 Serial Number Mail coupon with proof-of-purchase to: Hewlett-Packard Co., c/o Direct Mail Projects/M-M, P. 0. Box 10598, Portland, Ore11on 97209 OHtr not redermablr at HP dnlrr. HP-41 mull be purch.std betwcrn R/15/85 and 11/15/R5 Envelope>• mu11t hr po1tmarktod hy 12/31/85. Good only 1n ll.S.I\. Void whrre prohihilrt.l,taar·d PG12511 or ruttktrd hy law. Hr rmpln~rr fiUrt'hur.. nut rh11ihlr 1\llu~ 
•tt S HUIZ,Jt,!t"Rit"£1Ji'ol prlrt' fi.M wt•ri.:OII fltr dC"Iivrrv 
Lafayette on Sept. 28. 
with the LSAT, GMAt 
GRE,orMCA17 ' 
Probably not. Great grades 
alone may not be enough to 
impress the grad school of 
your choice. 
Scores play a part. And 
tha(s how Stanley H. Kaplan 
can help. 

The Kaplan course teaches 
test-taking techniques, reviews 
course sut?jects, and increases 
the odds that you'll do the best 
you cando. 
So if you've been out of 
school for a while and need a 
refresher, or even if you're fresh 
out ofcollege, do what over 1 
million students have done. 
Take Kaplan. Why take l
a chance with your career? 
KAPLAN 
5TANU:Y H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl CENTER lTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219)'272-4135 
AUTHORS AUTHORS AUTHORS 
MANUSCRIPTS 
HDIDD [J 
Juniper Press Is looking for a manuscript to pub· llsh. If you would like to submit a manuscript for consideration send It to 339 O'Shaughnessy Hall or call 283-1184. 
Canyou

affordtogamble 
The Observer 
Many major colleges will use drug testing to monitor athletes this year 
that 50-60 Division I schools were 
conducting some form of drug tests 

Quarterbacks, point guards and on athletes. Division I is made up of even cheerleaders at more than 50 the biggest members of the National major colleges will be tested for Collegiate Athletic Association. drugs this year as schools crack Toner also said his committee down on the use of illegal narcotics would recommend to the NCAA's and performance-enhancing sub­policy-making Council next month stances. that drug tests be required at all 
Most small colleges responding to championships and postseason foot­an Associated Press survey said the ball games. He did not reveal details cost of such tests were prohibitive, of the proposed tests. but major schools apparently have 
The AP survey found that somedecided that the need to assure a major schools are using voluntary "clean" athletic program is worth drug tests, others are picking the testthe price. 

subjects at random and still others"It would appear to me that most are requiring everyone in the ath­institutions have been initiating letic program to be examined.

drug education programs because of "Every athlete, every coach andthe widespread acceptance of the every coaching staff member infact that drugs are being used," said every sport will be periodicallyJohn Toner, athletic director at the checked during the season," said theUniversity of Connecticut and a sports information director at one offormer president of the NCAA. 
the hard-line schools, Jim Vruggink"Following the example of the of Purdue. "Every sport is involved. 

United States Olympic Committee, Every person with direct contact tocolleges are coming to realize that the sport, including, I think, even thetesting is part of the education cheerleaders."
program." 
Another school with a tough anti­The AP asked athletic depart­drug stance is Florida State. Par­ments at 38 colleges and universities ticipation is not only mandatory, butnationwide if their athletes were the football players are required totested for drug use. 28 said drug­take the tests naked, to preventtesting programs were in effect or players from concealing a cootainerwould be in effect by the end ofSep­of urine from someone who hasn'ttember. Several others said they been taking drugs. 

were studying drug-testing proposals. Schools generally don't start 
Toner, who heads a committee serious punishment ofan athlete un­looking into mandatory drug tests til the second or third offense. If a for all NCAA schools, said last week test comes out positive once, coun-
Garlits wins U.S. National drag racing championship 
since joining the Blue Max Racing Team last winter. INDIANAPOUS -Don Garlits set 
"We've been in a sort ofslump this an Indianapolis Raceway Park speed season," Lombardo said, "But thisrecord of 263.00 miles per hour on win makes up for it all. The finalthe way to his seventh U.S. National round was exciting, but so was thedrag racing title yesterday. 

semifinal where we were able toThe seemingly ageless 53-year­knock off Bernstein." 

old veteran from Ocala, Fla, beat 23­year-old Darrell Gwynn of Miamai 
Lombardo had a four run series of for the Top Fuel championship 
5. 789, 5.772, 5. 770 and 5. 786 worth 140,000. 

seconds at speeds ranging up to 

Garlits also set a new single season 252.95 miles per hour. Pulde, ap­record for victories in the unlitnited pearing in his first U.S. Nationals final class by winning for the fifth time in since 1971, was timed in 5.870 the 1985 National Hot Rod Associa­seconds at 213.98 mph in the final. tion season. 
It was Glidden's sixth victory inGarlits, who padded his lead in the the Labor Day classic and his ninthWinston World Championship straight trip to the Pro Stock finals standings by beating reigning cham­since he failed to qualify for thepion and closest pursuer Joe Amato 1976 race. The 41,year-old Hoosier of Old Forge, Pa., in the sem.linals, 

earned a measure of revenge in theshared the spotlight with John Lom­finals where he eliminated rookiebardo ofSaugus, Calif., and Bob Glid­driver Bruce Allen of Lapeer, Mich., 

den of Whiteland, Ind., who to whom he had lost in the semi­prevailed in the Funny Car and Pro finals of Saturday's Mr. Gasket Chal­Stock categories, respectively. 
lenge preliminary. 

"This race had more meaning to seling is the most frequent response, and sometimes parents are informed ofthe athlete's problem. 
Suspensions of a week or a month are common for second positive tests, with suspensions of a year or more, or permanent dismissal, com­monly assessed after a third or fourth offense. 
Most of the tests are designed to uncover use of "street drugs," such as marijuana, amphetamines, cocaine and opiates. Most of the schools said the cost of testing for steroids and .other performance en­hancing drugs is too high -about 
noo per test-to use regularly. 
Some schools feel the drug tests are beneficial because they give ath­letes a good reason for resisting pressure to take drugs socially. 
"Drug testing gives the athlete a reason to say 'No'," Wake Forest trainer Steve Yates said. "He can say, 'No, I don't want to lose my scholar­ship." 

Becker loses to Nystrom at U.S. Open; McEnroe, Navratilova win 
Associated Press Mandlikova eliminated Kathy Jor­dan 7-5, 3-6, 6-1; Shriver stopped NEW YORK -Sweden's Joakim Alycia Moulton 6-2, 6-4; Kohde­Nystrom knocked off Wimbledon Kilsch outlasted No. 12 Wendy champion Boris Becker yesterday, Turnbull of Australia 5-7, 7-5, 6-2; advancing to the quarterfinals of the Garrison crushed Kate Gompert 6-3, 
U.S. open Tennis Championships 6-2; and Sukova ousted No. 15 Car­and dashing the anticipated meeting ling Bassett ofCanada 4-6,7-6,7-5. between Becker and top-seeded Becker boomed 20 aces and 24 John McEnroe. service winners. Nystrom had only 
McEnroe, the defending cham­two aces. pion, fulfilled his part earlier in the 
But it was Nystrom -who lost to Becker at Wimbledon and the ATP Championships · who found the hardcourts surface at the National Tennis Center more to his liking. And the baseliner opened up his full barrage of passing shots and lobs. 
"The surface here helped me," Nystrom admitted, then added: "Boris didn't play so well." 

day by stopping 16th-seeded Tomas Stnid ofCzechoslovakia 6-3, 7-5,6-2. 
But Nystrom, seeded 1Oth, eliminated the 17-year-old, eighth­seeded "wunderkind" with his relentless, accurate ground game. Becker, however, did not go down without a fight, staving off five match points before succumbing 6-3, 6-4, 4-6,6-4. 
Another Swede, No. 8 Anders Jar­ryd, also reached the quarterfinals as he ousted No. 13 Tim Mayotte 7-6, 7-6,6-4. 
In the women's singles, top­seeded Chris Evert lloyd and defending champion Martina Nav­ratilova led a stampede of the favorites into the quarterfinals. 
lloyd crushed Robin White 6-2, 6­4 after Navratilova fought off No. 13 Catarina Lindqvist of Sweden 6-4, 7­5. 
No. 3 Hana Mandlikovza of Czec­hoslovakia, No. 4 Pam Shriver, No. 5 Claudia Kohde-Kilsch of West Ger­many, No. 6 Zina Garrison and No. 7 Helena Sukova of Czechoslovakia also reached the round ofeight. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
IMPORTANT SENIOR PRE-lAW SOCIETY MEETING Tues. Sept. 3, 7:30p.m. LlbraryAud. SPEAKERS: DEAN WADDICK, DEAN UNK, AND PROF. MARUllO 
\l~¢\~\\\Y (topics Include; Jut, personal statements, applications, etc.) tA~V> ~~ SPONSOIIED BYTHE ND/SJIC PRE-LAWSOCIElY 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 

The Observer Photo Staff Needs YOU *Many paid positions available *B&W darkroom exp. crucial *Own equipment necessary 
Pick up an application and job description at the Observer office, 3rd floor LaFortune 
me than even last year's," Garlits said, "This year I'm on the way to a Winston World Championship. Very few people have won back-to-back National championships and now I've done it twice. I'm very thrilled about that." 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
Gwynn, whose car ruptured an oil line at the start, still managed to 
Tuesday,Sept.3,1985
make a race of it, destroying an engine in the process. 
7:00-lO:OOp.m.
"I don't mind losing to him," Gwynn said of GarHts, "but I just Stepan Center wish I could have made it a closer race." 
Gwynn was runner-up to Garlits 
Get involved! Come Find Out About The for the second time in nine pro starts. He lost to. the eight-time auto 
Various ClubsI Organizations on Campus racing All-American In the finals of the NHRA summernationals at 
Englishtown, N.J. 
Lombardo, driving for two-time 
Saint Mary's Activities Night Is Also Sept.3, from 8:00-10:00 p.m. 
former U.S. Nationals winner Raymond Beadle, upset runaway Winston points leader Kenny Bernstein of Dallas, Tex., in the Funny Car semifinals and then stopped Dale Pulde ofGranada Hills, Calif.. in the finals for his first victory 
'JI['4[Jt~C3l~------------------------------------------T·u•e•s•d•a•y-,S·e•p·t-em
__b_e_r_3_._19_s_s__-.p.ag_e__l_l 
----------------------~-------------------~~~~~ 
Bloom County 
GtJO(J 

Zeto 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Brother of Prometheus 6 Splendid 
display 10 Snakes 14 Wake rudely 15 Brilliant fish 16 Curmudgeon 17 Lerner-Loewe 
show 19 Israeli dance 20 Sight at JFK 21 Croissant 22 Small terrier 24 Waitress' aid 25 Fashion name 26 -inone's 
chips 29 Illustrated 33 Staredrudely 34 Caesar's 
sidekick 35 Fly high 36 Plumbing 
nuisance 37 Artist's stand 36 Instrument 
~ 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. lor David All Rights Reserved 
Monday's Solution 

39 Against 40-Scott 3 Singer Lorna 41 Snacks 4 Neat-pin 42 Cutouts of 5 Agitated 
a kind 6 Parrot 44 Bedding 7 Milky-white 45 Receipts gem 46 Brownish 8 Deranged 
purple 9 "Let's Get-" 47 Lion hunt 10 Hamllsch show 50 Friend In need 11 Chimney grime 51 Great 12-Said 54 Asian land 13 Corset part 55 Kenneth Tynan 18 "Tobacco-" 
show 23 Folding bed 58 Vendetta 24 Yul Brynner 59 Saint Philip -show 60 Old language 25 Chopped finely 61 Judd Hirsch 26 Sodas 
vehicle 27 Go-between 62 Spotted 28 Blackboard 63 Expunge 29 Attitudes 43 Vehicle 50 Field measure 30 Highway 44 Calm before 51 -boy! DOWN 31 Devoured the storm 52 Elevator man 1 "-and the 32 Frock 46 Unadorned 53 "Citizen -" Man" 34 Pianist 47 Baking 56 -·haw 2 "-In the Frankie direction 57 Alliance Attic" 37 Publications 48 Surface acronym 
9/3/85 
49-pas 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Kevin Walsh 

'r'FS, IT SE'CMS THAT THeSE" BDXCAR WIWE FANS ARE' ALMOST AS ENTHUSIAST/C. AS 11-iE C.ROWD WA1TIN6 FOR FIGHTING IRt:lH Tlc.KETS AT 6ttTE 
ur 


Campus 
•8:00 
a.m.· 4:30p.m.. Eihibidonand sale of art prints, LaFortune ballroom, Sponsored by Office ofStudent Activities 

•2:00 
· 3:00p.m. ·Career Workshop, Career Opportunities in International Relations, Orion Yeander, Agency for International Development, Career and Placement Services Office 

•4:15 
p.m. · Meedng ofNotre Dame debate team, G-2 Ubrary basement, public welcome 

•7:30 
p.m.· Pre-law Society Senior Meeting, Dean Robert Waddick, Dean David Unk, Profosor Marullo, Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Pre­Law Society, S4 year membership fee 

•4:30 
p.m.· Biological Sciences Seminar, Room 283 Galvin Ufe Science Center, Sponsored by the Department of Biological Sciences 


'TV Tonight 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
!O:OOp.m.  
16  Th~A·T~am  
22  CBS Tu~sday Night Movi~: "Carbon  
Copy"  
28  Who's th~ Boss?  
28  Three's a Crowd  !0:30p.m.  
16  Riptide  
28  Moonlighting  
}I  Nova: "Gard~n ofInh~ritanc~"  ll:OOp.m.  
46  Blackwood Broth~rs  
16  R~mington St~cl~  
22  w~st 57th  11:30p.m.  
28  MacGrud~r and Loud  !2:30a.m.  
}I  Uf~llne: "Dr. Joan Hodgman"  l:OOa.m.  
46  Lcsl~a Aliv~  2:00a.m.  

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Veal Marengo Oven Fried Chicken Broccoli Quiche Reuben Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Roast Beef Spaghetti Rice Con Queso Grilled Uver and Onions 
16 N~wsC~nt~r 16 22 22 Ey~witn~ss N~ws 
28 N~wswatch 28 }I Soundstag~: "Th~ Greg Klhn Band" 46 Dwight Thompson 16 Tonight Show 22 U.S. <>Jxn T~nnis Highlights 28 ABC N~ws Nightline 22 CBS l..at~ Movie: "K~y West" 28 lov~ Conn~ctlon 46 Prai~ th~ Lord 16 Late Night with David Lctt~rman 16 Allin th~ Family 22 Nightwatch 46 lndepend~nt Network N~ws 


Dance Class Accompanist Needed 
MID .. EASTERN 

Fox Ballet and Modern, Possibly Jazz 
VEGETARIAN 

Please
Classes Held at St. Mary's
• Ve,.lanall .t .,HI Dulwe FOODS 
SHAWBaliA • MUGBDERA · BABA GHENOUJ 

support the
Please Call IfInterested
HOMMUS· FELAFEL 
TEBBOULI SALAD 
lndi Dieckgrase 

AMERICAN
SOUTH BEND • LEBANESE STYLE 
• Pile Ski/fed Sdftdwitlta GVROS 
Dance Faculty 
~ CANCER
1
•IHiifht(ul Paatrin • Turltuh Cof/re 288-5639 
!'SOCIETY~
Tuea • Set 5:30PM • 9:30PM 
COMPLETE CATENNG FOR 838 Portage 284-4643 284-4640
PARTIES .t BANQUETf 
IOi.Discount for ND/SMC Students 

Tuesday, September 3, 1985 -page 12
S~orts 

Inside linebacker Ned Bolcar, shown here in action in practice last week, is one ofseveral .freshmen standouts on this years Irish football team. For more on the perfonnance ofthe freshman class, see Larry Burke's story at right. 
Last-second comeback by Crimson Tide beats Georgia 
~dPress 
ATHENS, Ga. -Mike Shula threw a 17-yard touchdown pass to Al Bell with 16 seconds remaining to lift Alabama to a 20-16 Southeastern Conference victory over Georgia in a game ofwild comebacks last night. 
Alabama, which had led most of the way before falling behind on a blocked punt with 50 seconds left, had no timeouts when it started a 70-yard drive. 
Shula, son of Miami Dolphins Coach Don Shula, connected with Greg Richarson for 16 yards, Bell for 26 and Richardson again for 12, before finding Bell alone at the Georgia 3 on the 17-yard scoring play. 
Bell, a junior college transfer, also 
AAoclated Press 
KOKOMO, Ind. Mark Wroniewicz scored on a single by Richard Barrett in the ninth inning and Midlothian, Va., held on for a 3-2 victory over Sacramento, Calif., and the championship of the 60th­annual American Legion baseball World Series Monday night. 
Midlothian defeated Sacramento 8-4 in the first game of the final round earlier Monday, after Mark Chambers scored from third on a wild pitch. 
In the championship game, the Virginia team took a 1-0 lead in the first inning when Kevin Leigh scored on a throwing error by Sacramento shortstop Clyde Keller during an at­tempted double play. 
Freshman class has talent to contribute to football team 
By LARRY BURKE 
Assistant Sports Editor 
For college football players, the first preseason is very often the toug­hest. No one knows that better than Irish coach Gerry Faust, and that's why he's trying, as he does each year, to keep an eye on his first-year players and .to do what he can to make a difficult adjustment easier. 
"This is kind of a tough time for the freshmen players," says Faust. "I think they get a little homesick this time ofyear. But I've talked to them, like I do every year. And beyond that, they help each other out ­they're a very close group." 
While Faust doesn't want to baby his new players, he does want to make sure that they maintain a positive attitude through the early weeks oftheir first season. This often is difficult because under normal cir­cumstances, freshmen players wouldn't be expected to contribute that much to the team in the early part ofthe year -at least not in actual gaffie situations. 
But as Faust is well aware, normal circumstances have a way ofquickly vanishing once the regular season begins. Injuries often wreak havoc with the depth charts, and a new player can end up thrust into a role of prominence a lot earlier than his coaches would like. That player's ability to perform in that new role can end up meaning a great deal to the fortune of the team. 
Last year was a perfect example. The Irish had injury problems early in the year, and rookies such as Tim Brown, Reggie Ward and Cedric Figaro stepped in to fill the gaps. In addition, players like Frank Starns and Brandy Wells, who will play key roles this season, picked up valuable on-field experience through special teams work. All five earned monograms in '84. 
Faust is confident that this year's group of rookies will be ready and willing to do their part to help out the team. And that means more than just on-the-field contributions in Notre Dame's first few games. 
"This is a talented group," says Faust of his class of '89. "They're all going to contribute something to this football team -but it won't be just in game situations." 
It's too early to tell which of this year's rookies will make the biggest contributions, but already there have been indications that several players could have bright futures in store for them if their progress con­tinues. 
The tailback position, which al­ready has one of the nation's best in senior Allen Pinkett, has seen the emergence of three impressive rookies so far. The one who came in with the most acclaim was Moeller (Cincinnati) product D'Juan Fran­cisco, whose brother Hiawatha is a junior defensive back for the Irish. The younger Francisco was selected to high school All-America teams by Parade, Adidas/Scholastic Coach, National High School Athletic Coaches Association and Chicago Catholic, in both his junior and senior years. He set Moeller records for career rushing yards ( 4,032 ), career points scored ( 3 78), single­season touchdowns (27 as a junior), single season rushing yards ( 1,658 as a junior), single-game TO's (five) and career 1 00-yard games. Nagging injuries have limited Francisco's playing time so far, but he has started to demonstrate the flashy running style that made him a high school Star. 
Mark Green, a Riverside, Calif., product, entered Notre Dame with many of the same accolades as Fran­cisco, and in fact outdistanced his new teammate by being named to the USA Today's first-team high school All-America squad as a tail­back. The coaches like his speed -so much so that they've been trying him at wideout this week. Plans are to keep him there until at least the end of the week,. and Faust feels 

By KELLY PORTOLESE easy transition of coaches because13-9 with 4:21 to play on freshman 
Satnt Mary's Sports Edt tor Nester's philosophy of coaching
Wayne Johnson's 11-yard scroring reflects that ofthe four-year MVP.
strike. 

It was next to impossible to talk 
"Dr. Nester got the team to beAlabama's vaunted defense, about Saint Mary's tennis these past more disciplined in the springfeaturing nine returning starters four years without the mention of which will make it easier for me,"from last year and led by the play of the team's number-one singles and said Laverie. "The players learnedlinebacker Cornelius Bennett, doubles player in .each of those four she meant business. The team wasclamped a stranglehold on Georgia's years. That player was none other run the way I want to run it."

offense most of the game, holding than Debbie Laverie, a 1985 the Bulldogs to only five first downs Humanistic Studies graduate, who is Laverie, who finished ninth na­until the Tide had established a 13-3 now the Belles' new varsity tennis tionally in NAIA competition this 
lead with B:38 left in the game. coach. spring, has high hopes for this year's team.
Laverie takes over for Director of 
Green will have no problems read­justing if he is moved back to the tail­backslot. 
A third tailback, Corny Southall, also has been running well in preseason. A high school standout at both running back and defensive back, Southall rushed for over 2,000 yards and 25 TO's in his high school career. Southall, who hails from Rochester, N.Y., has also been working as a punt returner for the Irish. 
At the quarterback position, Phoenix native Steve Belles has had a solid camp so far. Belles connected on 61 percent ofhis passes for 2,233 yards and 20 TO's as a high school senior. In last Thursday's scrimmage, Belles impressed Faust with his poise as he drove his squad to a touchdown in a two-minute drill. 
On the defensive side, freshman Ned Bolcar has the potential to be an outstanding middle linebacker. Like the tailbacks, however, Bolcar's playing time will be limited by the quality of players in front of him ­names like Tony Furjanic, Mike Kovaleski, John McCabe, Ron Weis­senhofer, and Dave Butler. By the same token, however, Bolcar will benefit by playing on one of the na­tion's best inside linebacking units. 
At safety, Chicago native George Streeter could develop into a out­standing player. Streeter's size ( 6-2, 205 pounds) and hard-hitting style of play have already gained him some attention. Once he settles into the Notre Dame system, he could possibly put some heat on veterans Pat Ballage and Wells at the strong safety spot. 
EXTRA POINTS -Hiawatha Fran­cisco sprained an ankJe in yester­day's practice, but the injury apparently is not serious. . . Tight end Tom Rehder also was sidelined for yesterday's workout with a strained back, but he also is ex-
see FROSH, page 9 
caught a 16-yard TO pass from Shula in the second quarter. 
Freshman Terri Webster blocked a punt in the final minute and junior 

Laverie takes over as St. Mary's
Calvin Ruff pounced on it for a touchdown to give Georgia a 16-13 lead. 

tennis coach with hopes for success 
The Bulldogs had closed to within Athletics and Recreation Jo-Ann "Our long term goal is to make na­

Midlothian, Va. victorious 
Nester, who coached the team last tionals again and finish above tenth, spring. where we finished last year. I think 
After a month and a halfs travel in we're capable of finishing seventh, especially since only two of us 
in American Legion tourney 
Europe this summer, Laverie 
Midlothian made it 2-0 in the 

returned in July to direct the tennis graduated," says the Belles former 
seventh inning when Tony Moore 

portion ofSaint Mary's Sports Camp, captain of two years. 
scored on a sacrifice fly by Tris 

and is presently attending Notre 
In order to better prepare for the nationals, Laverie has scheduled some tougher opponents for the team's fall schedule. 
"We used to just play smaller In­diana schools in the fall and the big­ger schools in the spring. But now we play tougher competition all year around." 
The Belles will be put to the test this weekend when two of the new additions to the Belles' schedule, Evansville and Marquette, visit the the Saint Mary's courts. 

With the majority of last year's talent returning, and Debbie Laverie at the helm, the Saint Mary's tennis team should be headed for another exciting and successful year. 
lipscomb. 

Dame's Graduate School ofBusiness. The Columbus, ·ohio native feels 
Sacramento scored without a hit very fortunate to be able to coach
in the bottom of the seventh, when 

Ticket Distribution 
tennis at a school such as Saint
Joe Colletto, the first ofthree walked Mary's and thinks her familiarity
batters, went home on a sacrifice fly with the team will be a definite
by Bobby Jones. 

advantage. 
Juniors Today 
The California team was able to "I know their personalities and 
Sophomores Tomorrow
generate only one other run, when capabilities on the tennis court amd Dave Hajek scored on a single from I'm familiar with their games and the 
Freshmen Thursday
Jones in the bottom ofthe ninth. way the program is run," says the 22­year old Laverie. "We're all on Jim White scored in the seventh 
tight schedules and I have a good un­
Tickets will be distributed at ACC Gate 3 
for Midlothian to tie the game at 4-all derstanding that we all have a lot to 

from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. each day. 
on a ground-out by Mark do. But while I'm here I want busi­Wroniewicz, before Chambers gave 
ness to be all tennis and I expect the the Virginia team the lead in the same from them." 
Students may present up to 4 applications and ID's. 
double-elimination tournament. Laverie predicts it will be a fairly 


