Inside: Irish Extra 
l 
I I 
l 
Caution ahead 
Concern was shown for campus squirrels with proximately two blocksfrom campus. The warning tbis sign posted along Notre Dame Avenue ap-bas been postedfor more than a week. 


Eastern seaboard braces for Gloria 

become the first this century to hurricane battered North Carolina's 
smash with full force into the heart Outer Banks, with 56 mph gusts at 
MOREHEAD CITY, N.C. -Hur­of New York City, the nation's most Cape Hatteras. High tides washed 
ricane Gloria raced toward shore populous metropolitan area. waves over Route 12, the main road 
yesterday, menacing every coastal The National Weather Service· along the islands. Waves eight to 12 
hamlet and big city along a 750-mile posted a hurricane watch for the feet in height were breaking against 
swath from the Carolinas to New New York area at 3 p.m., and said the 3,000-pound sandbags sur­
York and New England with I30 that would be upgraded to a warning rounding the 114-year-old Cape 
mph winds, pounding surf and tor­if the storm continued to swirl up Hatteras lighthouse. 
rential rain. the coast. At least 30,000 people had been 
More than 100,000 people fled The service gave the storm a 25 evacuated on the North Carolina 
their homes in the face ofGloria, one percent chance ofpassing within 65 coast from Carolina Beach to the Vir­
ofthe most powerful Atlantic storms miles of the city today, and a 17 per­ginia border, said Chrystal Stowe, 
this century, vacating resort bun­cent chance of passing that close to spokesman for the state Emergency 
galows in North Carolina's barrier is­the east end ofLong Island. Management Division. Traffic was 
lands and high-rise condominiums Hurricane warnings flew from bumper-to-bumper on U.S. 74 west 
in Ocean City, Md. Little River Inlet, S.C., on the North ofWilmington. 
In New York City, authorities Carolina border, northward to At least 43,000 people were or­closed down the twin I I 0-story Plymouth, Mass. The center of the dered out of high-rise con­towers of the World Trade Center, 300-mile-wide storm, which awed dominiums and hotels on the beach and the Statue of liberty's old torch forecasters by its size and gale-force in Ocean City, Md., a delicate 10­was moved indoors as New York winds extending 200 miles north mile barrier island only a few blocks braced for the hurricane's un­from its center, is due to hit land wide. welcome visit. early today. 
see GLORIA, page 4
The hurricane had a chance to By last night, the surge from the 
'Private action' ·to be taken against Observer 
By TRIPP BALTZ saying they want to monitor our ex­Observer Sports EditorjetfBlumb StaffReporter penditures," Hamilton said. "We confirmed that two reporter&. and cannot release information when two photographers were sent to the 
At a secret meeting yesterday, 12 these people come at us with hostile game. student leaders decided to take intentions. They can change wor­"Our photographers aren't profes­private action with The Observer's ding on the letter, but that was their sionals. We need two of them to 
editor-in-chief concerning the dis­original intent," she said. 
assure several good shots," he said. 
closure of the newspaper's finances, Earlier in the week, Student Ac­according to Student Body Presi­tivities Board Manager Lee Brous­"I budget all the trips, and we dent Bill Healy. sard said student organizations had don't stay at the Marriott or fly first· 
Healy would not elaborate on the spent S20-25,000 on advertising last class with Continental Airlines," group's plans. year in The Observer. Last night he Blumb said. 
The I2 student leaders asked to said those figures were ". . . off the Observer Business Manager Dave see The Observer's finances in a let· top of my head, and they could be Stephenitch said money left over ter last week. Observer Editor-in­less." from the previous year is cash carry Chief Sarah Hamilton d(:clined to Broussard said ·Hamilton showed forward rather than a profit. release the information. him that the expenses really totalled "This does not mean it is profit in 
Healy was unsure ifThe Observer approximately Sl2,000. "I'm not the sense of the word. It is used would decide to open the records as sure, it could be around S1 5,000," during the year to pay off other ex­a result of the private action. Broussard said. penses." 
"I don't know, I would like them At Monday's Student Senate Because the money left over fluc­to," he said. "I really and truly meeting, Healy also brought up a tuates from year to year, the cash believe it's in the best interest ofthe · complaint concerning Observer carry forward is not included as a students." reporters and photographers being part of the budget. 
Hamilton said she questioned sent to the Notre Dame-Michigan "People seem to be saying that Healy's motives. football game. we're making a profit off of it," said 
"I really wasn't aware that the stu­"A student had approached me Hamilton. "We don't divide it up or dents were concerned with our with the complaint that rooms, ex­take trips to the Bahamas. This financial transactions," she said. penses, and a rented car had been money becomes part ofour business 
"First, I get a letterfrom Bill Healy paid for by The Observer," he said. operation in the next year." 


Knute Rockne movie premiere re-enacted 

ByTHERESA GUARINO man of the board of First Source SaintMary's Executive Edttor Corp. as honorary chairman. Knute Rockne was the famous 
The ghost of George Gipp and Notre Dame football coach of the Knute Rockne, along with Ronald twenties, who garnered six national Reagan, once again may be returning championships and five unbeaten 
to South Bend when the world seasons for the Fighting Irish. He premiere of "Knute Rockne · All died in a plane crash over Kansas in ,American" is re-enacted Oct. 18 in 1931. the Morris Civic Auditorium. Organizers are trying to make all 
The recreation will take the form events of the weekend as authentic of a benefit screening that or­as possible, according to Nickle. ganizers hope will attract many of "We are trying to get the Morris the stars who attended the original Civic Auditorium to recreate the viewing. Reagan has been invited, original look of big banners and U.S. with other heads ofstate and federal flags," she said. "Guests will be arriv­government, but has not yet ing in vintage cars at the theater." responded. The movie first was shown in four 
Gen. William Westmoreland, downtown theaters on Oct. 4, 1940. however, and other officials of the WNDU-TV has agreed to show a 
U.S. military will be in attendance for film of the original premiere before the event, held the night before the the night's activities get underway. Notre Dame-Army game. The film has travelled across the country and was found specifically 
The screening is part ofa series of for the weekend. Celebrities arriv­"Rockne Returns" events planned ing in the city were filmed by one of by a committee to benefit the the founders of Burke Audio-Visual Hospice of Saint joseph County, an in South Bend, who loaned the film organization which teaches and to a friend 40 years ago. counsels the terminally ill, and gives Burke contacted the friend's patients "dignity in the last days of widow this year and found that his life," according to Tina Nickle, film had ended up in Traverse City, technical director ofthe benefit. Mich. The committee got the color 
The committee is headed by Mary see ROCKNE, page 4
Ferlic, with Ernestine Racklin, chair· 

Gene Krames, a Lansing, M icb. window wasber, bangs by bis safety linefrom tbe 6thfloor ofan office buildingas a ladderfrom tbefire department is pusbed near bim. Tbe platform be bad been working onfellfrom tbe building. He was not injured. 


The Observer Friday, September 27, 1985-page 2 

Beautiful room contest winners at Saint Mary's were announced last night. The most unusual room award went to a quad consisting of Patti Petro, Lori Totenti, Margaret Brown and Katie Smith. Most beautiful room award went to Alisa Hardy of 213 Regina North. The residents of 147 Holy Cross, Marsha Imfeld and Nannette Larkin, won the award for most collegiate room. The best party room award was won by the residents of 225 Holy Cross, Regina Robie, Jenny Feeney, Sheila Doyle and Patti Novak. The final round ofjudging occurred last night. The contest was sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Government. · The Observer 

Of Interest, 
The American AsSOCiation of University Women will hold its annual book sale tomorrow at the North Village Mall on U.S. 31 from 9 until4. The sale will include collector's items, novels, paperbacks and other books. The public is invited. · The Ob· 
server 
The 18th annual Michiana Mennonite relief sale will be Saturday from 6 a.m. until mid-afternoon at the Elkhart County Fairgrounds. Admission and parking are free. Featured will be handmade quilts and other domestic products. · The Observer 
A Nurses' Capping Ceremonyfor ;unior nur­sing majors at Saint Mary's will take place tonight at 7:30 in the Church ofLoretto. Thirty-nine student nurses nowwill work at local hospitals and health service agencies throughout the school year. The capping ceremony will be followed by a reception in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. ·The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Army ROTC battalion has been named the top unit in the second ROTC region, based on the outstanding performance of the senior cadets at Advanced Camp in Fort Lewis, Wash. this summer. This places the unit among the top three in the nation. · The Observer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh,University presi· dent, will be part of an ABC·TV Special Report on the teaching of values in public schools to be aired on the network at 12:30 p.m. Sunday, Nov. 10, following "This Week With David Brinkley." Hes­burgh's involvement in the program is as a participant in a discussion of the issue with Phyllis Schlatly, whose Eagle Forum was set up to guard the nation's classrooms from secular humanism. The discus· sion was to be taped last week in the library of a public school in Monon Grove, Ill. · Tbe Observer 
A symposium on Catholic-Jewish rela­tions will be held at Notre Dame October 28-29 at the University's Center for Continuing Education. The symposium celebrates the publication of "Nostra Aetate," a document issued by the Second Vatican Council October 28, 1965. The document, whose English title is "Declaration on the Relationship of the Church to Non­Christian Religions," repudiated anti-semitism, provided a positive theology of the role of the Jewish people in salvation and is widely considered a major improvement in the often tragic history ofrela­tions between Christians andJews. -The Observer 

The Conference on Chrlstianityand Literature will hold its midwest regional meeting at Notre Dame October 10-12. The meeting, whose theme is "Christianity and its Boundaries," will include discussions of English and American literature in light ofrelations between Christianity andjudaism, bet· ween Christianity and modem skepticism, and between contem­porary critical theory and religious belief. Major addresses will be given by Gerald Bruns, William and Hazel White Professor ofEnglish at Notre Dame, and Felicia Bonaparte, professor of English at City University of New York. -Tbe Observer 

Weather 
Perfect football weather this weekend, even ifthere is no home game. Partly sunny and continued cool today with a high of 60 to 65. It will be fair and cool tonight with a low of 40 tO 45. Saturday will be partly sunny and warmer with a high near 70. -AP 


The -Observer-
The Obeerver (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during e:um and vacation periods. 1be Obeerftr is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, Subscriptloll5 may be purchased for I~ per year ( UO per sc­mnter) by writing The Obecna, P.O, 
Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The ObK~ is a member of 1be Aalodakd Prall. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

Destgn Editor,., ........ ,.,,. Maureen Murphy Destgn Assistant............... Melissa Warnke Layout Staff...................... , ..Suzanne Ritgcr Typesetters ..............................,.., Tom Small 
Becky Gunderman Typtst ....... , ...., ............. Mary Kate D'Amore News Editor ,.., ..... ,.,..,..,....,..,..jane Kravcik Copy Editor,.. , ...... ,.,.,, Cindy Rauckhorst Sports Copy Editor,.,....,.....,.Many Burns Sports Special Layout............ Alex Pcluer 
JcffBlumb 
Slotman,....,.,,.,.,..,,.,.......... , .......... Phil Wolf VIewpoint Copy Editor ,.,,.,Aimee Storin Viewpoint Layout.,,........ Elizabeth Vogel Features Copy Editor,............. , Sam Moore Features Layout,,..,.,..,.,., Maria Groner ND Day Editor ..,..,.,,.,.,..,......Lynne Strand SMC Day Editor..,.,, ......... , ... Priscilla Karle Ad Design ,.,.,.., ..... , ..,....,jeanie Grammens Michelle Martin jesse Pesta Tom Biafore Pbotograpber...,,,,.,,,.,,Chaitartya Panchal 



Glory days of high school athletics fondly remembered 
One thing I never will forget is the pain I felt as I walked off the field after my last high school football game. 
I am not talking about any type of physical pain, but rather, an indescribable anguish which stemmed from the realization I probably never would play in another football game in my life. Many people may not be able to understand the way I felt, but to me, the end ofa 12-year football career was a bit traumatic. 
When I arrived at Notre Dame last year, I kept meeting hoatds ofpeople who all were ex-high school athletes. They came in different shapes and sizes but were held together by a common bond of their past · the high school athlete who did not have the talent or size to participate on the level of varsity athletics that Notre Dame boasts. 
So here we all were, after the smoke ofmoving in and getting situated had cleared, left to regale each other with mountains of stories about past high school ath· letic achievement and fame. 
No matter who told the story or what sport he played, the storyteller al· ways made sure to hit the highpoints of his career. In fact, I don't believe I've ever heard a person tell about fumbling the ball in a crucial game or striking out when he was at bat. Regardless of the story, the teller always seems to be the hero. 
Believe me, I am not placing myself above this mass of story-telling ex· athletes; as a matter offact, I may be one ofthe worst. 
I never seem to let the sour points of my career slip out unless I make it seem like a joke. By trivializingthe valleys in my performance on the football field, I do come off as trying to act humble, but fail to let my compeers realize how much ofa klutz I actually was in a helmet and shoulder pads. 
By no means do I feel badly about making myself out to be some kind of great athlete · because there is no one around here from my hometown who is able to contradict me. In other words, in the next three years if I can manage to keep my friends and relatives from pop­ping up and o• Jening their mouths, I have it made in the shade. 
just because I said I was one ofthe worst ofthe some­what "tall tale tellers" does not mean I was the worst. For example, I often used to exchange stories late into the evening with an ex-soccer player from Pittsburgh whom I will call John. No matter what story someone would tell, john always had a better one. 
Noticing this trend in his one-better-than-you yarns. I attempted to make it impossible for him to top one of 

Kevin Becker 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
my stories. 

I let rip with astory about our football team having to run up and down a steep levee in full football gear with the mercury around 100 degrees and the humidityat 99 percent. Needless to say, his soccer team had to sprint up and down the treacherous Alleghenies every day before practice. There just is no beating some people. 
Actually, I do not mind listening to all the stories my friends have to tell me. I never get tired ofhearing about my roommates' excellent wrestling career or of anot· 
her one of my friend's tennis exploits. I guess it's neces­sary to sit back and listen to people relive their past. 
I think I would go crazy if my roommate were to turn a deaf ear to all the stories, I have told him. In a way we are helping each other by turning memories that are potentially painful into stories meant to impress and beguile others. 
Even though I am playing interhall football this year and my friends are par· ticipating in various other sports, the feeling just is not the same. Although interhall is fun, there is not the same feeling and spirit in interhall 

sports as there was in high school. The comradeship and the great moments we experienced in high school never will be relived by us ex-high school jocks. 
So we all sit around and dream about past glories and conquests. We talk about how good it would feel to be back in high school and to don the old uniform. 
There is something inside that will not let us forget the times when we were once great athletic heroes · at least in our own minds. 
Thankstoyou... itworks... 
•

forALLOFUS 



Help Prevent Birth Defects 

Ask one of the 3million Americans whdve survived cancer, if the money spent on research is worth it. 

Weare 
. . 

wtnrung. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
rSOCIETY$ 

Having Trouble Finding An SYR Date ? 
Cal/-239-7793 
and askfor Tape 18 
"Dating Skills" 
COUNSELINE Monday-Thursday 4pm to12am 

AUDITIONS!! AUDITIONS!!AUDITIONS!! ~A new and exciting dance company on campus ~~ 



~A-~



September 28 in Regina Dance Studio(SMC) 
9:30am to ?No Experience Necessary 
for more info. call 2~-5505 
The Observer Friday, September 27, 1985 -page 3 

~ Obs6ver/Cbaltanya Panchal 
An Irish mix-~p . 

Tbts truck gets into tbe football spirit as it tton crew working on tbe LaFortune renovations. mixes cement yesterday. It is part of tbe construe-

What makes 
Sundayspecial? 
One call, three friends •••and our $7.99 Sunday special. 
One call to DOMINO'S PIZZA® gets you our Sunday special-a 16-inch, single topping pizza for just $7.99. It's a great way to get together with three other students and enjoy a hot, custom-made pizza for about $2 each~ 
And Domino's Pizza Delivers® Free. In 30 minutes or less, or you get $3 off your order. 
So make Sunday special with our $7.99 Sunday special. It's available all evening this Sunday. Only from Domino's Pizza~. 
Call us: 
277-2151 

1835 South Bend Ave .. Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
IJ/J 
~ 
,,. 

()..e ~~· 
(JoeJ 

Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. No coupon necessary. Just request fhe Sunday spataL '16-inch ptzza generally serves 3-5 pecple. limited deliv:try area.~ 1985 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 

DELIVERS® 
®FREE. 
Album warning label discussion continues 
ByROBPRICE 
News Staff 
PARENTAL GUIDANCE: EX­
PUCIT LYRICS. 
This warning label will appear on selected albums of 19 major record companies as a result of pressure from the Parents' Music Resource Center, a Washington-based group whose members are wives of legis­lators and other public officials. 
The group's purpose is to make parents more aware of albums whose lyrics deal with sex, violence, drugs and alcohol, or satanism. A record-rating system, similar to the one presently being used for movies, also is suggested by the PMRC. 
Although public opinion varies, at least one group openly opposes the attempts made by the PMRC. The Musical Majority, made up of artists, managers, publishers, broadcasters and others in the music business, does not want albums rated and is concerned the PMRC has too much political clout. 
"The rating ofrecords will do not­hing but impose a sense of censor­ship on the creative community," said Danny Goldberg, chairman of the Musical Majority and president of Gold Mountain Records. 
The proposed record-rating sys­tem also has stirred opinions at Notre Dame. 
Ron Mileti, chairman of the musi­cal entertainment committee of the Student Activities Board, said he hesitantly endorses a rating system as long as it does not cause the artist to restrict his creativity. 
Father George Wiskirchen, music professor and assistant director of 
the Notre Dame band, said he 
believes rating records is an accep­
table idea. He said, however, it 
would be difficult to do because of 
people's different moral bases. 
"And how do you define 
'obscene'?"Wiskirchen asked. 
Both Mileti and Wiskirchen agree 
rating records is not a form of cen­
sorship. Wiskirchen noted, "It can't 
be censorship because it does not 
prohibit production of records." He 
added, however,"It is a dangerous 
first step towards censorship." 
Kevin Purcell, a Notre Dame 
senior, said he strongly opposes a 
rating system because it is a form of 
censorship. He said, "Music has al· 
ways been a form of expression, like 
poetry. Nobody rates poems, do 
they?" 
The issue ofwho is responsible for censoring the music children listen to, parents or the record industry, is also controversial. 
Tom Klein, president of Spiritual Rock, said he believes children don't understand the lyrics of rock songs. "For the most part, they don't listen to the lyrics, they are attracted to the image the group projects," he said. 
Purcell disagreed with Klein, and said he thinks children do under­stand the lyrics. Anyway, he said,"Children can hear the music on the radio even if their parents won't let them buy the album." 
Wisk.irchen said the issue doesn't concern him too much. He said only a small number of people are at· tracted to the "cults" formed by the music and that it is only temporary. 

Greenpeace explosion blame given to Hernu 
A.s8oclated Press 
PARIS · Prime Minister Laurent 
Fabius on Wednesday blamed 
former Defense Minister Charles 
Hernu and the former secret service 
chief for the bombing of a Green­
peace ship Rainbow Warrior. 
Fabius said it was difficult to 
determine specifically who gave the 
order to sink the ship July 10 at its 
berth in Auckland, New Zealand, be­
cause "there was no written order." 
He said he questioned Hernu and secret service chief Adm. Pierre Lacoste Wednesday afternoon. 
"My conviction is that both of them acted under the impulse of their owri. idea ofwhat was in the in­terest of our country," he said. "My conviction is that it is at their level where the responsibility lies." 
Lacoste was fired last week for refusing to answer questions about the sinking, and Hernu, who had ul­timate responsibility for the secret service, resigned. 
On Sunday, Fabius announced that the secret service carried out the bombing on government orders but did not say who was responsible. 
Speaking during his weekly televi­sion appearance, Fabius said, "In a democracy like ours, the respon· sibility for this kind of decision is borne by the civilian authorities · that is to say the minister (Hernu )." 
Some news reports have said military subordinates carried out the attack either because they misin­terpreted orders or because some right-wing elements in the army wanted to embarrass the Socialist government. 
The Rainbow Warrior was prepar­ing to lead a protest flotilla to France's South Pacific testing grounds for nuclear weapons. 
One theory holds that Hernu gave an oral order to Lacoste to "take care of' the Greenpeace protest, and Lacoste interpreted it as an instruc­tion to sink the ship. 
A greenpeace photographer was 
killed in the bombing. 
Earlier Wednesday, the govern­
ment named army chiefofstaff Gen. 
Rene Imbot to replace Lacoste as 
head of the General Directorate for 
External Security, France's secret 
service. 
The Cabinet ordered lmbot, 60, a 
Foreign Legion veteran, to clean up 
the agency and report fully on its 
role in the bombing. 
The authoritative daily Le Monde 
quoted sources close to Fabius as 
saying the premier wanted Hernu to 
admit his role publicly, even ifthere 
had been "slippage" between his or­
der to "anticipate" Greenpeace ac­
tions and the actual bombing. 
Three military men have been 
arrested and two are being sought 
for questioning in connection with 
leaks of information about the scan· 
dal to the news media. Authorities 
said the arrests were made on in­
formation from new Defense Mini­
ster Paul Quiles. 
Francis Szpiner, an attorney, said one of those sought was Capt. Paul Barril, well known in France, who was transferred from a special anti­terrorist unit in 1983 after inves­tigators said he manufactured evidence against three purported Irish terrorists. The three later were· cleared. 
Szpiner said Barril was "at the dis­position of judicial authorities" but would not say where he was. Le Monde said he was not in France. 
Le Monde charged the arrests were an attempt "to intimidate the press ... and hamper its investigative work." It said if convicted on charges of leaking state secrets, in­formers could face a 20-year jail. term and journalists who used their information could be jailed for five to 10years. 
In its meeting Wednesday, the Cabinet also retired Lacoste from active military service. 
The Observer Friday, September 27, 1985 -page 4 

Tbe late PatO'Brienposes in his role asKnute Rockne in tbe 1940 film "Knute Rockne-All American."Story on page 1. 
Rockne 
continuedfrom page 1 
film back and found it in good condi­tion and "still vivid," Nickle said. A cocktail reception at the Rockne Memorial will be held at 
5:30 for top patrons, and a cham­pagne reception before the viewing will be at the Morris Civic Auditorium for all guests. 
After the movie, the Century Center will host a supper-dance for all invited and ticket-holders. 
Rockne's daughter and granddaughter have agreed to at­tend, after being found by the com­mittee's lengthy search, said Nickle. 
In 1940, South Bend christened the week of Sept. 29 to Oct. 4, as "National Knute Rockne Week." The premiere of the movie attracted the stars of the film, with celebriti~s such as Bob Hope Rudy Vallee, jane Wyman, William Randolph Hearst, Ed Sullivan andjimmy Fiedler. Presi­dent Franklin Roosevelt sent a message through hs son, Franklin Jr., 


Gloria 
continuedfrom page 1 
North Carolina Gov. Jim Martin declared a state of impending dis­aster for 27 counties and Virginia Gov. Charles Robb mobilized Na­tional Guardsmen to help with evacuations. 
At the southern end of the Chesapeake Bay, mailboats were pressed into service, along with police and Coast Guard vessels, to ferry about half the residents of Smith Island. 
Classes were canceled in North Carolina, Virginia, Delaware and Maryland as schools were turned into evacuation centers, and hundreds of military airplanes and helicopters and dozens of ships set sail from their home bases to protect them from the storm. 
People fled their homes as far north as Fire Island, which runs the southern coast of New York's Long Island. But others who planned to stay home stocked up on food, bat­teries and candles, boarded up win· dows and set up sandbags to guard against floodwaters. 
At 9 p.m. EDT yesterday, the center of Gloria was near latitude 
33.5 north, longitude 76.0 west, 140 miles south of Cape Hatteras, moving nonh at 20 mph. The storm's forward motion was ex­pected to accelerate, and a hur· ricane watch was issued from Plymouth to Eastport, Maine, in ad· ditionto the hurricane warning. 

Charges of South African police brutality made by young woman 
Tuesday morning under the Internal Security Act. 
She belongs to the Western Cape Student Action Committee anti· apartheid group and said she was picked up at a roadblock on her way to a rally, apparently because she carried anti-government pamphlets. 
She said she was struck repeatedly until a senior police officer, whom she identified only as Steenkamp, arrived from Cape Town. The other officers then became courteous and apologetic, she said. 
A police spokesman at national headquarters in Pretoria said he could not comment on the com­plaint, but that all people with al­legations ofpolice misconduct were urged to file sworn affidavits and bring charges. 
He said all complaints were thoroughly investigated. 
She said she was released Wednes­day afternoon after being treated Qy a district surgeon, then was taken home by police. Her lawyer, Nadeem Human, said he would bring assault charges. 

Senate requests AIDS funding 
AMoclated Press . QueenMown in eastern Cape 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa· A 1 7 -year-old girl ofmixed race whose face was bruised and swollen said yesterday that five officers, behaving like "real animals," beat her for no reason in a Cape Town police sta­tion. 

The charges came the day after a judge barred policemen from as­saulting prisoners in two other Cape Province cities, Port Elizabeth and Uitenhage, where other allegations of brutality have been made during more than a year of protest against white-minority rule. 
Cape Town police said they fired on a crowd from which a gasoline bomb was thrown at a police station, killing a 15-year-old black youth. A policeman in the Ciskei tribal homeland shot and killed a black man who was in a threatening mob, authorities there said. 
Police headquarters reported a dozen riot incidents during the day, mainly rock-throwing and arson, and said 45 black men were arrested for "public violence" in Province. 
Finance Minister Barend du Ples­sis said in Pretoria that a leading Swiss banker, Fritz Leutwiler, would help the government renegotiate its foreign debt of S24 billion and major creditors had agreed to Leutwiler's role. He is former governor of the Swiss national bank and former chairman of the Bank for Interna­tional Settlements. 
Foreign banks have refused to renew loans to South Africa because of the continued uprising against apartheid, the race laws that guaran­tee privilege for the nation's five mil­lion whites and deny rights to the 24 million blacks. More than 700 blacks have been killed. 
South Africa's currency has plum­meted in value during the financial crtsts and the government postponed repayment of principal on the debt until january. 
Cheryl Phillips, who lives in the Bishop Lavis suburb of Cape Town, told a news conference five policemen beat her at the Bracken­fell police station after her detention 
and members of Rockne's last team held a reunion, placing a wreath on his grave in South Bend's Highland Cemetery. 
The premiere was an event that gathered nationwide attention. Celebrities arrived on the "Twentieth Century Limited" and "Super Chief' trains, and met in Chicago to ride to South Bend in the "Knute Rockne Special." 
In South Bend, streets were decorated, and merchants were hoping for visitors to spend almost $1 million by the end of the week. 
At Notre Dame, the Glee Club par­ticipated in a· local broadcast of the "Kate Smith Show" and dining hall chefs prepared a menu for the night's banquet, the first time women would eat in the main dining hall. 
"Anyone who wants to buy a ticket can," said Nickle. Tickets start at S25 and go as high as S500. They can be purchased by calling the Hospice of Saint Joseph County office. 



AMociated Press 

WASHINGTON Citing the growing threat of AIDS, the govern­ment's top health official said yester­day he asked the White House to approve an additional 55 percent in­crease in federal spending to combat the deadly disease. 
Dr. James Mason, acting assistant secretary for health in the Health and Human Services Department, told a Senate subcommittee he has asked the Office of Management and Budget to approve a $70 million in­crease in the administration's 1986 budget request for AIDS research. 
The increase -the second in two months -would bring spending in the fiscal year beginning next week to about S200 million, more than double the amount President Reagan asked for in his first budget proposal in February. 
The new total also would be more than three times the amount spentin 1984. 
Another witness gave the panel fresh evidence that the disease is spreading to the heterosexual population. 
"This disease is the department's number one public health priority," Mason told the Senate Appropria­tions Subcommittee on Health. "We will continue to reassess our efforts in order to make maximum progress in our fight against this disease." 
Sen. Lowell Weicker, R-Conn., the subcommittee chairman, told Mason the money would be available as soon as the administra­tion formally requests it. 
"Whatever you ask for, you got," Weicker told Mason. 
Meanwhile, a Harvard researcher cited Army studies showing that 5.4 percent of the U.S. soldiers seeking treatment for venereal disease in Berlin this june were infected with AIDS. 
Dr. William Haseltine said the sol­diers got the disease from German prostitutes, who have infection rates of 50 percent or more. And the sol­diers likely will spread the disease further, he said. 
"These aren't homosexuals," he told the subcommittee. "These aren't drug abusers. These are nor­mal, young guys who visited pros­
titutes.  Half  the  prostitutes  are  
infected,  and  these  guys  got  in­ 
fected."  

Weicker questioned whether enough soldiers were involved to draw such broad conclusions. He cited a similar study, possibly the same one, which put the infection rate at four cases of AIDS among 74 soldiers seeking treatment for VD. 
AIDS, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, generally is thought to kill its victims by destroy­ing their immune system and leaving them vulnerable to secondary diseases. Haseltine said, however, that recent research indicates AIDS also causes massive brain damage that may be as serious or more serious as the immune system damage: 
The majority of its victims to date have been homosexual men, and many people identify AIDS as a disease of homosexuals. That is not correct, Haseltine said. 






OCTOBER 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
® . 
FRANK SHORTER JOINS THE LIST OF SPORTSMED GREATS 
Bill Rodgers, Alberto Salazar, Allison Roe. Joan Benoit (course record 32:34). Jim Spivey. Pete Pfitzinger. Rudy Chapa. Paul Cummings. Joe Kipsang. Lisa Larsen Wiedenbach, Dan Henderson {course record 28: 16). Julie lsphording. Chris Hughes. Ke~meth Cooper. George Sheehan. David Costil. Tony Staynings -Plus many of the world's fastest 1OK runners 
-

lAST rW:ii: -FIRSTNAME IN'ii'W. -RAcfDAY Aa: 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I u w 
AOOftESS 

I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

Slgftlltllre: __~------------­
(hrelrt'a ...nature If unller II) 

....._, ctiOCk or money !ll'dlr ~ tD' 
SPORTSMED 10K 
No ..runds or oxc11ang1s tncumpe.m ontty forms wW !It rwtumed 
HOTLINE 219-Z32-3034 
MAIL CIA llEUVEJI ElfTRY TOo 
SPORTSMED 10K 
320 S. Saint ..lo!eph St.. South Bene. IN 46601 
TAC I  INDIANA 0  OTHER 0  
I  I  I I  I  I I  I  I  I  I  
Tile Sportlmed 10K  

II ~ lndlau TAC 10K Champlonsblp 
~i~~~_{)__i__Jl__t__________________Fr-ida-y,_se-pt-em_b-er-27-,1-98-5~-pa-ge-5 
Fear of failure must not limit our aspirations 
"You get up again--over and over..."­Madonna. 
No -this column is not a plug for the princess of lace and bizzare boots so do not change that dial yet. I was listening to this Madonna tune the other day, though, and it really hit me. 
Carol Brown 
in these times 
It is true -you do get up again. 
Just take a moment to remenber all the 
times that things seemed hopeless. Remem­
ber that test that your entire life depended on 
-the one that was humanly impossible to pass? 
Remember that major break-up with your 
high school sweetheart or that disastrous SYR 
with your dream date? Or how about the great 
fear that many of us here shared -the fear of 
rejection by the Notre Dame Office ofAdmis­
sions. 

Now, after these "disastrous, life-ending" events have passed, how does life look? Well, ,you probably passed that "impossible" final, you have gone on living without the person you could never live without, and, if you are reading this from the South Dining Hall (no offense North), you were not denied the chance to become a Domer. 
Even ifyou had been who is to say it would have been for the worse? It is probable that you would have been just as happy or even happier participating in the collegiate life on some other campus. The point is, all things seem worse at the time they bombard you than they usually tum out to be. 
An exaggerated example of this, which all Domers can relate to, is the past two weeks of Fighting Irish football. The entire Notre Dame student body, alumni and players went from the utter despair brought on by a defeated team to the elation we all experienced after this past weekend's victory. 
Who is to say that losing that first football game was necessarily a bad thing for Notre Dame. Granted, it was definitely a letdown to start off the season with a loss, but looking on the flip side, maybe an opening loss is just the motivation the Irish need to win the rest of this fall's games-we can hope, can't we? 
This is not to suggest by any means that things always work out the way we would like them to, for to do so would not only be naive, but blatantly ridiculous. Rather, I want to remind you that we cannot see into the future and time does heal many, if not the majority, ofall wounds; there really is a silver lining be­hind the dark clouds (even in November in South Bend). 
We ought not underestimate the power of people-in body, mind and spirit. Not to sound egotistical, but we are incredible creations of God, with exceptional resiliency. We do bounce back and we are often much stronger than we give ourselves credit for. 
Since we cannot predict the future and of­ten have little control over which way our paths in life will bend, we should keep in mind, particularly in times of crisis or disap­pointment, that what may seem like the ul­timate blow in life now might ultimately tum out to be for the best. 
To those of you who find yourselves the doldrums oflife right now, this may not seem like much consolation -but step back from your problems for a moment and think... are things really that bad? How many times have you been down before and things worked themselves out? You got up again, right? 
Look around your world. We all have so much to be thankful for -so much to be happy 
about. Among many other things, we live on a 
beautiful campus, we have our minds and our 
health to be thankful for, we have friends and 
family and we have the freedom to choose 
how we want to live. 
Along these same lines we have the power to make our lives happy -to look to the future with hope and aspirations. We know that along with our desire to achieve certain goals in life comes the possibility of failure. We must not let fear offailure and disappointment limit our aspirations, however. 
We know from experience, although we of­ten seem to forget, that if we do not succeed we will "get up again" and eventually we will succeed. 
In high school, my friends and I had a saying: Everything works out in the end. I still believe this and follow it today. The message is clear and the meaning is right. 
So, next time you are feeling smothered by a dark cloud in any part ofyour life just remind yourselfthat "things can only get better." 
CarolBrown is a sophomore in the College ofArts and Letters and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

P.O. Box Q 
Feeling of Irish Guard will never be forgotten 

DearEditor: 
I would like to discuss a feeling which could not be experienced by anyone except nine ot­her guys and myself. This feeling is only ex­perienced by marching in front of the Notre Dame Band. The band inspired me so much on the Saturday night of the Michigan State game that my heart felt like it was pumping faster than the speed oflight. I was overtaken by the noise of the crowd, the music ofthe band and the voices in my head saying "Sean, this is great!!!" I felt like I was on top of the world. I was so uplifted by the band, and I will never live this feeling down. This special feeling which I experienced on Saturday the 21st will stay close to my heart for the rest of my life. The enthusiasm surrounding me overtook me and put me in a state ofcraziness (nothing un­usual). 

• The best way to describe all my feelings is to say marching on the campus to the stadium, marching in the tunnel, marching in the stadium, and marching on the campus back to the Band Annex is heaven. This is Notre Dame, this is the Irish Guard. March and become overzealous to march all the time. 
If I had not made the Irish Guard, I never would have lived it down. These feelings I have mentioned and discussed ace very spe­cial to me, and I would like to say, "Do it up!" 
Sean P. Munster SorinHall 
Ticket prices are not the issue for Johnson 

DearEditor: 
I could not help but feel sorry after reading Joseph Pupel's and DonJohnson's letters. I do not think the price of football tickets is the issue here. What is crystal clear is that both men have a need to exert the "dominance" of the Notre Dame name that is too strong to be healthy. Being in a very intelligent community 
Doonesbury 
comprised of two well-regarded schools, like ours, it disappoints me that it has come to this. Pupel and Johnson, if you want me to cringe with hurt feelings when told "You are not NO" you will be disappointed. My friends and I are proud of Saint Mary's College. The caring faculty and staff ace genuinely interested in our search for full personhood. The small School atmosphere nurtures our senses of in­dividuality. Most importantly the many beautiful friendships we have been lucky enough to acquire are in themselves enough for us. My friends and I do not feel an in­stinctual need to play the "Anything-you-can­do-l-can-do-better" game. What a waste! Why don't we instead emphasize in our two schools shared values and friendship; this is living in a way from which all ofus can benefit. 
Susan Langworthy Holy Cross Hall 
Damage at the Grotto makes some feel lonely 
DearEditor: 
In the midst of all our complaining about "Stonehenge II," a beautiful, integral part of this campus has been damaged by fire. The Grotto, which symbolizes what this Univer­sity is all about, is now a charred, lifeless structure. It makes me sick to think of the once radiant statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary covered with black soot. 
I hope people will stop their protesting over the fountain and take time to reflect on this incident. Yes, the Grotto will be restored, candles will soon brighten dark nights, and Our Lady will once again shine. For now, though, where can we go for those precious moments of silence and meditation we all need at some time or another? For me, it has always been difficult to pray in my room (and even the hall chapel) amidst the sounds of laughter, Bruce and typing. In lonely, sad times I rush to the Grotto, knowing that I will always find peace, hope and, most ofall, love and acceptance there. At the place that was once home for all, the barricades now read "Danger! Unsafe." 

I r;;a.J'TI<NOfAJ 54l. 7HAT 
a/£3/...L, 511?., 8lJT IT 5EEMS 
70 ME YOUR~ 15 
57{)(]( IN THe !?1ST. 
" ~ 

I know some on this campus do not care about what has happened to this very special place, but for those who do, I appreciate your sense of loneliness, confusion and emptiness, for in my heart they are so painfuJJy real. 
jeanne Quigley LyonsHall 

Hurley's Mass showed ND family cohesiveness 
DearEditor: 

The house was fuJJ. "Come in out of the cold," Father said. The children huddled together to think, to eat, to hope and to pray. They came in various costumes-some in suits, some in sweatshirts, some with bafkpacks, but all with warm hearts. They came to show their support for their injured brother, Kevin. 
For the Hurley family, Kevin's Mass and the multitude of students and staff who par­ticipated must have been a comfort. For the rest ofus, the gathering was an opportunity to experience the strength and unique cohesive­ness of the Notre Dame family. Something of­ten alluded to by alumni in green plaid pants but something we, as students, often fail to recognize-Notre Dame is a very special place. 
]oanieMeyer Farley Hall 

Presence of monument will not let us forget 
DearEditor: 

As of late, the Vniversity has come under heavy fire for its plans to erect a monument to those alumni who have died in service since World War II. While the criticism may be jus­tified in light of other pressing needs which demand immediate attention, it is unfair to cite the monument as an example offinancial 
irresponsibility  and  a  frivolous  waste  of  
money.  
This generation  has great  reason  to  be  

thankful. For the past 40 years, our freedom 
Garry Trudeau 
81fT mAT IKJKJJJ.I'M t-VA50N/..Y NOTSAYIN6 7liJO )'CAR5 H&CANTEJE AGO. HWCJJ. 
has gone relatively unthreatened. It is very 
easy to forget the millions in previous genera­
tions who died to preserve it. 
Each year in Leningrad, thousands of Soviet 
school children file past a monument com­
memorating soldiers who died at the hands of 
Nazi invaders. Soviet newlyweds stop at the 
monument before leaving for their 
honeymoons. 
we would do well to take this advice from 
our Soviet counterparts: Never forget. These 
Notre Dame students who gave up their lives 
to guarantee our freedom deserve our respect 
and a place in our memories. What better way 
can we recall their unselfishness to us, save 
through a monument that most ofus will pass 
each day? Surely S500,000 is a small price to 
pay to preserve our memory and respect. We 
cannot afford to forget. 
Chris Devron PlannerHall 

Saint Mary's women not just for dates 
DearEditor: 
In reply to the editorial "St. Mary's should not pay same for tickets", my friends and I un­derstand and agree with the fact that if Notre Dame wants to raise ticket prices for our stu­dents then they have every right to. What we have a bone to pick about is the condescend­ing attitude of certain Notre Dame students toward Saint Mary's, specifically DonJohnson. TI1e message that came across in the editorial by Johnson is that Saint Mary's women are only good for a date. What makes him think that Notre Dame men are good for more than one date? Excuse me, 1 do not mean to take cheap shots as Johnson did. Do not get my friends and I wrong, we enjoy the combined social life, we don't enjoy being treated con­descendingly. Johnson degrades himself trying to elevate himself above others when he has no right to. He also makes the mistake of believing that Saint Mary's students wish to join Notre Dame. WE DON'T. 
jultejablonowski LeMansHall 

Quote ofthe Day 
"Temptations are like bums: treat one nice, and he'llreturn -with his friends." 
Megiddo Message 

; I 
·~ 

VieW~_O_l_._n_t_________ ar_,se-p-tem-b-er-27_,_19_ss~-P-ag-e6
Fr-id... 

P.O. BoxQ 

i
l 
t 
I 
Notre Dame lacking 
a good radio station 
Dear Editor: 

When looking at the size and potential the University of Notre Dame possesses, we too, find it difficult to understand why we as a col­lege community lack a viable student radio station. In response toW. Todd Waffner's let­ter, we would like to shed some light on this issue. 
First, we do have two radio stations on campus. One is WSND FM 88.9, a fine classical station which services the Michiana area. The second is WVFI AM 64 which services the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. Un­fortunately, WVFI has gradually become dis­
I 
! missed by the administration as an apathetic
L 
and unprofessional organization, which has 
r, 
led to its present condition. In a sense, WVFI is presently being told to become a first rate
( 
radio station and then it can "play ball" with the administration. I We at WVFI have taken the necessary ac­
I 
tion. We possess a great deal ofstudent poten­
( 
tial, and the energy and enthusiasm needed to make WVFI a truly viable student radio sta·
I 
tion, an organization of which the student
{ 
bodyand administration can be proud. 

For example, we have a four year \VVFI( veteran as station manager. We have ex­perienced, enthusiastic people in all of our 
i 
departments as well including sales, promo­tions, sports, news and production. We provide immediate information-the absolute latest in news and sports -and the best music programming college radio can offer. Also, our promotions staff has some exciting ideas planned for Notre Dame and S3.int Mary's. 
Granted, we do have problems with our equipment, but not with our committment to excellence. 
We look to you, therefore, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community and the ad· ministration. We have taken the first shot and the ball is in your court. 
Thomas]. Hall Patrick]. Beaudine College Promotions, WVFI 
Cheering for the Irish just as easy for SMC 
DearEditor: 

I wish to re-address the issue Pupel challenged in his letter ofSept. 23. Pupel questions the right ofSaint Mary's 
I 
women to stand alongside Notre Dame stu·
( 
dents in the fan section of the Notre Dame 
~ 
( 
f 

Stadium. I would think, simply from all the 
commotion being raised that many of us on 
this side of the road do put a value on our 
ticket. Saint Mary's has been an integral part of 
the fan section far longer than Pupel's 20 
years. He could confirm this fact by simply 
cracking the history books he is most 
assuredly surrounded by on a football mor­
ning, while the rest ofus are sinfully socializ­
ing. · 
Saint Mary's is simply questioning the difference in price and is addressing the ad­ministration of Notre Dame. Ifit would be so kind as to offer a reasonable, acceptable answer a lot of the griping would abate. Cer­tainly before the Notre Dame males decide to do something as drastic as flooding the stadium with students from Holy CrossJunior College and Saintjoe High School. 
There is no apparent reason for this slan­derous attack on the Saint Mary's community by certain factions. This issue did not attack them personally, but these factions cannot be surprised at our retaliation. 
We are equally proud of the football tradi­tion, and will continue to support it if Mike Bobinski has anything to do with it. Pupel, Saint Mary's women must be part ofthe cheer­leading squad. 
Go Irish...and it comes just as easily from this side ofthe street. 
Alice Kroeger leMansHall 

Both schools dependent on the other's existence 
DearEdttor: 

I hesitate to write this since I am probably stepping right into the trap which Joseph Pupel has set by writing his letter on Monday, Sept.24, but I am willing to risk being a fool in order to express my sincere disappointment towards the disrespect I have felt ever since I have been here. Maybe I just took Pupel's ar­ticle "too literally" while it was really meant to be "light-hearted", but I did all I could to stop from chokingon my coffee when I read it. 
The argument that divides Notre Dame and Saint Mary's has gone on so long, I am tired of it, and since we all know it is asinine, why can't we admit it? We Saint Mary's students do depend on Notre Dame for many of its academic, social and sporting events (notice I separ~ted them.) Notre Dame, in turn, depends on us for the same kind ofactivities. Why can't we just respect each other for what we have to offer? 
Let us not forget how far back the bonds 
between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's go. If we showed Pupel's letter to Saint Mary's alumnae, they probably would have choked on their coffee as well. Why do students from Saint Mary's have the opportunity to buy tick· ets to Notre Dame sporting events? Because we always have, and we want and deserve them for all the support we have willingly given to Notre Dame in return. 
I realize that while the best rebuttal I could have written to Pupel's article would have been none at all, I refuse to sit back and neglect the opportunity to stick up for some­thing that deserves attention and respect. We are on Notre Dame's side (even ifwe are not mentioned in the cheers or the football program), and we know Notre Dame is on our side as well. Our schools have so much poten­tial separately and together! Only when we can respect each other's individuality can we live up to this title deeming us the Notre Dame(Saint Mary's community. 
Suzanne Ritger LeMansHall 

Original article threw no mud at Notre Dame 
DearEditor: 

.It always amazes me at how a small a human mind can really be and Don Johnson has truly amazed me. His letter to the editor regarding Kelly Portolese's article was uncalled for. 
In her article, there was no mud slinging; it was not meant as a slap to the University of Notre Dame or its students. She was merely asking a question, "Why are Saint Mary's stu­dents required to pay more for tickets to ath­letic events at Notre Dame?" It was not a criticism of the "grossly chauvinistic bureau ofSaint Mary's College-hating officials." 
I hate to say it, but how stupid. Give Saint Mary's students more credit than that. She did not say Saint Mary's College and the Univer­sity of Notre Dame were one school and that their students should be equal. She only said the students ofboth school are treated equally in many respects but sports tickets seem to be a different matter. 
Yes. We are Saint Mary's College and U.S. 31 divides us from the University ofNotre Dame, butJohnson have you ever heard ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community? We are separate schools, but the schools are related through tradition and friends. Let us hope that does not change. 
Finally, I would like to make a comment on Johnson's closing statements concerning Saint Mary's students: "I find no fault with Saint Mary's girls. I think everyone should date one at least once." If I only knew the one girl from Saint Mary's who dated you once, Johnson, there is one thing I would like to ask her -Why? Dear God, Why? 
Colleen Walker ]til McGaffigan Monica Ctlettt Holy Cross Hall 
Policy 

• 
The Observer encourages commen­taries from all members ofthe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 

• 
The Observer accepts letters to the editor at the above address. All letters received become the property of The Ob· server. Letters must be typed, no longer than 250 words and signed by the author. 

• 
Guest columns may not respond directly to previous commentaries appear­ing in The Observer and may not exceed 700words. 

• 
Commentaries appearing in The Obser­ver do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofThe Observer. 

• 
The official opinions of The Observer appear in the Viewpoint section ofThe Ob­server and are signed "-The Observer." 



Editorial Board 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
( Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan
), News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr 
The Observer is the tndependent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough 
Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poltcies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino
admtnistration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Spans Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb
sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healy 
taries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Copy Chief ..............................................Frank Lipo 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ...................... Davtd Stephenttch Controller ........................... .William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3,1966 






Accent 
Friday, September 27, 1985 -page 7 
Flames announce His wrath, and our thoughts 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a lonely God 

T 
he prophets ofgloom seem 
unanimous in agreeing that the 

next time God destroys the world, 
He will send down fire from the sky 
to incinerate us, and the globe will 
be left in ashes like Sodom and 
Gomorrah ofold. 
Fire, in our religious tradition, is both God's best symbol (meeting Moses, He disguised Himself as a burning bush ), and the agent of punishment and destruction promised to the damned, who will be gathered like faggots for the everlasting campfire. 
Sailors fear the storms when the masts ofthe ship burn like candles on a sacrificial altar as St. Elmo serds his fire as a warning ofim­pending disaster. The Chicago fire, started by the clumsiness ofMrs. O'Leary's cow -who couldn't fairly be accused ofdropping a cigarette while smoking in bed -was seen as a judgment on a town that forgot God. All the great fires ofhistory have been pointed out as examples 
ofwhat the New Testament meant 
when it warned us that our works 
would be tested as though by fire. 
Early Monday morning, Our Lady's Grotto exploded with fire. We didn't know it was possible for glass, metal, and stone to burn. "Maybe it was a bomb?" some ofthe Catholics asked. "No," the fire department said, "it was too many candles lighted and left burning by weekend visitors." 
Blaming weekend visitors sounded too easy, so the specula­tion went on. Maybe it was Gerry Faust's fault because he was over­zealous in asking the Blessed Mot­her's help. Maybe it was the gamblers with heavy bets on the game, not leaving a stone unturned to get heaven on their sides. Maybe it was the fault ofseniors, frightened by interviews, regaining their lost faith in the power ofthe saints. 
The Christians who felt them­selves gifted in reading the hand­writing on the wall shook their experienced heads. "It was a God­sent sign," they said. "It. was like the first tremor of the ground in an earthquake alerting the local in­habitants with a signal ofdanger. God, at His most dram~tic, uses fire as a language to say He is cross with us." 
Reading The Observer one could get the impression civil war is about to break out, as though we were Catholics and Protestants in Nor­thern Ireland; but that's because people who like to drink write more letters than their sober-sided classmates. Anti-establishment tirades are a form ofself­indulgence, likt: the last orgy ofa bachelor before his marriage, in a generation whose members are paying their dues to join any respectable establishment that will take them. The closer you get to a career, I suspect, the more savage indignation seems, as Adlai Steven­son described Disneyland, like "a paroxysm in trivia." 
There is a time to pick up stones ­which those without sin are free to cast -and a time to hold our peace. One ofthe benefits ofbeing my age We never had a major fire, the
is that you grow timid enough to be old-timers say, as long as those holy
fair. devotions lasted. Now Our Lady
A madonna with a face covered herselfis the victim whom the fire
with soot -Our Lady ofCzestoc­howa? . looks down from her niche engines came to save. The news is in the Grotto; it's about time, one of disturbing, like hearing that Smokey the blacks said, that Notre Dame the Bear dropped a match in the 
had a black madonna. Maybe there's woods, and got his bear hat dirty a message here to increase the from the smoke. minority enrollment. In that case, Maybe the only conclusion to be the Admissions office should be drawn is one that Protestants at-torched, and not our lakeside ways knew: a symbol is only a sym­shrine. Maybe the Blessed Mother bol. A statue is only a painted doll to got tired ofthe bonfire warming her which we have attached pious feet, importuning her intercessions. hopes. Tapers with price tags at-And maybe we're trying too hard. tached are not dependable, as likeJob, to find the reasons ofthe cheap things never are. They are mystery which tries our taith. not manageable the way the 
Evening Star is manageable, set to 
Supernatural or not, there is burn through the night by the irony here. The Queen ofHeaven is Maker. Candles melt, drip, make a our chosen patroness, specially mess, until they build themselves invoked to save Notre Dame from up to an explosion as secular as sin. burning. Sorin, who lost his main The beauty ofthe Grotto is not building to the flames, had an inter­attached like a mineral to the ivy­est in fire prevention. Dating from covered rocks; it is brought here by his time, the Holy Cross Com­people who come to kneel in munity said the rosary and the humility. The miracle ofthe Grotto litany ofLoretto at First Sunday is in taith that lights the candles. I devotions, to ask the Mother ofGod love the Grotto, though it's only a to serve as fire warden, keeping the showplace where Catholics come night watch, and guarding us from to pray. I'll stop worrying about the consequences ofoverturned Notre Dame losing its soul when all candles, upset oil lamps, and faulty those Catholics give up their wiring. praying. 
lfs 'divine intervention'-and the return of legends 
Editors note: 
This is the second episode in The Obser­

ver's serial publication ofthe newNotre 
Damefootball story, "The Gipper's Ghost," 
written by Notre Damegraduate Robert 
Quakenbush. Last week's chapter told ofa 
disheartening loss to Michigan which added 
to the Fighting Irish's 22-game losing streak. 
But God, seeing their despair, decided to 
take action. 
Divine intervention 
bewildered soul in a gray sweatsuitA reported to the Lord's office a short time later. He knocked and entered. 
Flashing a lopsided smile, he said, "I got 

your memo, Sir. I came right away." One 
usually didn't keep The Boss waiting. 
God closed the book he had been examin­

ing. The visitor noted the words, Permanent 
Record, inlaid in gold on its cover. 
God spoke. "You're aware ofthe Notre 

Dame situation, aren't you?" He asked. 
The soul answered, "Yes, Sir, I am. Twenty­

two straight losses. You know how much I 
The Gipper's Gho~ 
Chopt.ers 2 ond 3 · ~ 
love Notre Dame. I never would have left, 
except..." 
God interrupted, "I know, I know. But I needed you up here. The guardian angels were experiencing a mid-eternity crisis. Morale was low and you were the best motivational speaker available." 
The Lord returned to the issue at hand. 

"My son, Catholic football in America is in a shambles. It's a sin how many Catholic high schools are changing their nicknames from the Fighting Irish to such devilish variations as the Blue Demons. That pagan team in Southern California has stolen the national collegiate championship two years in a row. It has to stop! 
"Mind you, never before have I directly intervened in a Notre Dame football game, despite persistent rumors to the contrary. But I really am a fan. And I confess I do take secret pleasure in those bumper stickers I've spotted on the Indiana Toll Road. You know, the ones that say 'God Made Notre Dame Number One'. They're usually found on the rusted bumpers ofl977 Chevrolets. 
"But surely you realize that I didn't make Notre Dame 'Number One' that year or any other year. The boys did it themselves. Oh, sure, I admit I may have stopped that 1 5 miles-per-hour wind at precisely the right moment at the end ofthe 1980 Michigan 
game. But give Harry Oliver most ofthe 
credit. He's the one who actually kicked the 
ball 51 yards!" 
"That was quite the miracle finish, Sir," the 
soul in the sweatsuit acknowledged, "Having 
no time remaining on the clock was a nice 
touch, too." 
"Lately, however," God resumed, "I have been preoccupied with other problems. You know how it is. Ifit isn't the Russians, it's the Democrats. Fortunately, Heaven admitted its first management consultant just the other day. She's given me quite a few pointers already about effective delegation. 
"And so, Knute, I'm delegating! I'm return­ing you to Notre Dame. Your assignment is to resurrect a winning tradition at our Lady's University!!!" 
Rockne's chaUen!Je 
T 
he soul of Knute Rockne was stunned. 
Although he had thoroughly enjoyed his 
heavenly reward, he had been a bit miffed 
when the Lord drafted him into The Biggest 
League ofALL on that fateful day in March, 
1931. 
A chance to go back to Notre Dame.... 
"...ofcourse, Knute, anything or anyone 
you need will be at your immediate dis­
posal." God's commanding voice brought 
Rockne back to attention. 
Being a soul of action, he made a swift 
decision. 
"I want George to go with me." 
God leaned back. At last count, there were 
128,912 souls named George listed in the 
Permanent Record. "George?" 
"George Gipp," Rockne answered. 
God was a little surprised. Knute usually played by the rules. "Knute, you know he's ineligible. He's still in Purgatory working off all those misspent afternoons in South Bend's pool halls...when he should have been studying!" 
"It's a touch assignment, Lord," countered Rockne. "I need the Gipper." 
God relented. 
"Oh, I suppose it can be arranged. Tell you what. I'll even fix it so that he receives a 
certain amount ofplenary indulgences for 
every touchdown he scores while wearing a 
Notre Dame uniform. They'll be credited to 
his account in the Permanent Record." 
"Thank you, Sir. When do we start?" 
"The next time someone lights a candle for the football team at the Grotto, you're on your way. Good luck, Knute!" 
Rockne's spirit rose. He started to leave. 
"Wait, Knute. I almost forgot!" 
The Lord handed Rockne two large tablets 
made ofstone. 

"I wrote these during halftime oftoday's 
game. Deliver them for me," said the Lord. 
Win or lose, Joe Kelly was an exceptionally devout Catholic. As was his custom after every game, he made a visit to the Grotto of Our Lady ofLourdes to say a Rosary in honor of the Blessed Virgin. The Grotto, a one­seventh scale replica ofthe original French shrine, had been built in 1896. It had become one ofthe most beloved spots at Notre Dame. Generations ofNotre Dame men and women had offered fervent prayers at the site. 
Kelly knelt at his usual spot along the rail, near the statue ofSaint Bernadette. He had to smile. An earlier visitor, probably one ofthe co-eds, had placed fresh flowers in the statue's delicate left hand. 
He prayed the Rosary, and then added an extra Hail Mary. He hoped the Lord oc­casionally listened to a coach's prayer.. 
Kelly rose to leave, then turned back and entered the Grotto. He removed two quarters from his pocket and slid them 

through the slot ofthe collection box. Taking a taper, he touched its waxed end to one of · the burning flames. He lit a devotional candle in the back row, where it was a little more sheltered from the wind. 
As he strode resolutely from the Grotto toward his office in the ACC, he was already too preoccupied with next Saturday's game with Michigan State to notice the flash of heavenly light over his shoulder. 
Rockne and Gipp landed on a bench at the edge ofthe clearing. They observed Coach Kelly as he headed away. 
"That's him, poor soul," said Rockne, "Joe Kelly. A Notre Dame alumnus and a fine man, too. This is his third season at Notre Dame. He came here determined to turn the Notre Dame program around. He knew it would be difficult, and it hasn't been easy on him. But he loves the University ofNotre Dame." 
"Do you really think we can help him, Rock?" asked Gipp. "I'm not sure, Gipper. But we'll certainly give it the old college try!" 
Rockne suggested a tour ofthe campus. Gipp enthusiastically agreed. Uke other souls assigned temporary guardian angel duty, they were invisible to mortals until they chose to reveal themselves. Therefore, they could move undetected among the passing parade ofpriests, professors, students and alumni. 
Entering the Main Quad, the souls turned and looked upward. 
"She's still a lovely sight, Rock," said Gipp, "The gold leaf looks good as new." 
The central campus was much as Rockne and Gipp remembered. Many of the buildings surrounding the perimeter ofthe Main Quad had been standing during their era. Most had aged gracefully. Ivy now covered their exterior walls. 
Suddenly, Rockne grew excited. There was 
one thing he wanted to see! "C'mon, George. Follow me!" They walked briskly southeast and crossed 
the South Quad. When they emerged from the walkways between the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering and O'Shaughnessy Hall, Rockne's destination came into full view. 
Notre Dame Stadium! 
"The House That Rockne Built" was an impressive structure. It had been built during the Golden Age ofsports by the same con­struction firm responsible for Comiskey Park in Chicago and Yankee Stadium in New York. Its outer wall stood 45 feet high and measured a half-mile in circumference. Along its rim fluttered brightly-colored pennants symbolic ofNotre Dame and its opponents for the season. 
Rockne said, "George, I coached the Irish a 20-14 win over Southern Methodist on Opening Day in October, 1930. What a day! I wish you could have been there!" 
"So do I!" 

Rockne glanced at Gipp, suddenly remem­bering. Their eyes, glistening with tears, met. Both realized how much they missed being part ofNotre Dame. 
Together, they made a silent vow to restore the lustre to its golden tradition. To be continued ... 
~ "TI» Gtpp.r's Gbost... copyri&bt 19115 by ltolwrt ~­bwb. PtdJIWI«< by o·coniiOf'" PtdJIUblns Co. lteprlniH byperrrtls· simi. 
I 
1 \ 
1 
' ~ 

Sports Briefs 
ND women's tennis players began competi­tion in the Northwestern Invitational yesterday. Susie Panther led the Irish in the individual play by defeating Robin Gerstein ofIowa ( 6-2, 6-2 ) and Mary Wood of Kentucky ( 6-3, 6-1 ). Panther will face number-four seed Katheryn Bumstead of Vanderbilt today. Also continuing in play will be Izzy O'Brien, who lost to Kansas' chris Kim and had a bye in the consolation round, and Tammy Schmidt, who beat Northwestern's Kristin Laux and Iowa's Pat Leary. Also remaining alive in competition was the doubles team ofO'Brien and and Mary Colligan. -The Obseroer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club raised its 
record to 2-3 yesterday with a 5-3 victory over Hope College. Kate Titterton scored two goals, while Susan Haling, Beth Haverkamp and Teresa Sheppard each added one. The Irish will play at Kalamazoo College tomorrow at 3:30p.m. -The Obseroer 
The ND Cycling Club will tour in two groups on Sunday at 10 a.m. from the Grotto. Anyone who is interested may participate.-The Obseroer 
I 

Friday, September 27, 1985 -page 8 
The SMC volleyball team lost to Purdue-calumet last night, 7-15, 2-15, 15-6, 3-15. Margaret Feldman had eight kills for the Belles, who will return to action tomorrow at l 0 a.m. with the Saint Mary's Invitational at the Angela Athletic Facility. Other par­ticipants will include Bethel College, Lake Michigan College, Tri­State University and Manchester College. -Tbe Obseroer 
The SMC tennis team will play host to the Sajnt Mary's Invitational tomorrow at 9 a.m. in Leeper Park in South Bend. Other participants will include Ball State, Cincinnati, Depauw, Mar­quette, Toledo and Xavier. -The Obseroer 
ND Rowing Club members should submit money for betting shirts to Mike Songer in 823 Grace Hall today. A list oforders will be posted on the door. -The Obseroer 
The ND basketball teams, both the men's and women's, will participate in a softball game Sunday at 1 :30 p.m. be­hind Moreau Seminary. Spectators are welcome.-Tbe Obseroer 
see lJRIEFS, pa~e 13 
Pete Gillen hires staff at Xavier 
Associated Press . 

CINCINNATI -Xavier basketball Coach Pete Gillen, who left his job as an assistant to Head Coach Digger Phelps of Notre Dame earlier this year, has hired West Virginia high school coach George "Skip" Prosser as an assistant, the university an­nounced yesterday. 
Prosser, 34, graduated from the United States Merchant Marine Academy and has been coaching basketball in Wheeling, W.Va., since 1972. Prosser was head coach at Unsly School for two years and later led Central Catholic High in Wheel­ing to a state championship. 
The Ohserr•er !\otrt:' Oamt: olfi<:c:. I<Katnl on thl· third floor of l.al'ortunl· Studt:nt Ct'nt<:r. al.-ct:pts dassiflt'd adn·rti~ing from ')a. rn. until f p m...\lunda\ through l'riday. The Ohser'!'er Saint \tan's offilT. lot:atnl on till' third tloor of Haggar Colkge Centt:r. alTt:p!s clas!'>ifkd~ from 12..~0 p m umil -~ p.m . \ton­day though Fridav. lkadlint: ti1r nt:xt-da\ da....ifinl' i" :'> p m All da..~ified~ must hl· prepaid. eithu in pn~on or h\· mail. ( :harge j, I 0 t.Tnh per fiH· t.·harac­



Classifieds 
ters er dav. 

LOST: ~ Oriv.. U'*-. Robert GRAD ROOM $100/MO 277-2045 Well John,what do you want? What I want IENIOMI Pre-pme Party ND-Purdue REGINA AND IHEILA, CON­Coov•. 1025 Emery Rd., Lawrence , .....,........................................................... and fi'I«Y guy wanta who want r:N• th•e Sept.2811am to game time 11:-'0 Look fOf GRAOULATIONS ON YOUR CAPPING!NOTICES I· ~-6F.1175 !be. Deeperate! If lound and epilled hie gull fOf a ltudent ticket. ie SeniOf CIMa Fleg. Look fOf Mapa to be HOW ABOUT THAT MASSAGE? YOUR 
C811288-5447. R-d! 4 GA'a to the •my game.Thal'a what I diatributed In dOfma and at SeniOf Clela ..CHIGAN al.EIPING PARTJtER PRO-TYPE Ov• 15 yra exp. Specializing want. Help John find tickata Of elM he'l Cocktllil Party. Relreehll'*lll!
WANTED 
in atudent papera, rfiiUmea, diuerta­-FOUND-Sharp electronic calculatOf, find you! Bounty paid fOf tix. Cell4289 BIU.: DON'T WORRY. BIMBOS WIU. BE tione,law papen 277-5833 found about a WMII ago in O'Shag. Cell OKTOBERFEST!OKTOBERFEST!OK­BIMBOS TIM. Chria at 167tto identify. WIU. TRADE TWO TICKETS FOR TOBERFEST! WATCH FOR DETAILS! TYPING AVAILABlE NMc:t ride to Deyton any weekend. Cell ARMY GAME FOR TWO TICKETS TO WANTED: lltlht fuiHovlftl ...pll 
287-4082 LOST LOST!!! lloata gold Elgin watch w/ Marla4174. LSU GAME. CAll JANE 2141. GO -IN-PHIWPS FOODALL.I EJtlht PW WOI'MII..Ioold"l tor a ,_ brown leather bend, prob-ably on Wed­GO, GO, GO, GO, GO, Go, GO! twt• to theold 8Yfll ReMI car..-ven needay the 18th. It could have left it in the WANTED-Orivera needed to deliver the Wil trade two tickellto Armygame IOf two Get payched I Of Sunday niglt! ofyour frlende.nd tlue uaa aaltor the TYPING CALL CHin 2J4.1117 dart room in the Art Building. Pleue, ObMrV•. Takea about 2 houra a day, ticketa to Mia.iaaipp1 game. Cal Jane, CfiiUaH FAIILIYIII nltflt of your ltfa on Oct. 121 c.l zta, ,._. rii\Jm it to me; it hal great aen­good pay. Oriv..needed fOf II days. II 2141. 2Me or 21M MAP to help fllht aoc1111 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5-:30 timental v~e and if t don't find it my mot­interllated call Mark Pott• at ~5303 Of apethy at MDII h• wil KIU. me. CALL JIM at 3414. 241i0. GOT ARMY TIX? P/U PHONE & CALL ROOMMATE FOR SALE; quiet, domel­Thankl. s TONY1893. tic, atrongf.-mingbackground, bkJaeyea. 

WANTED 5'3", brown curly hair Cgraying and alightly HELP ME. PLEASE!! I 1oat my football A VERY ENEMETIC INDIVIDUAL Ollt REIIE-UI liE? I PAID GOOD beld on the left aide), but healthy!!! Cell KENNY,CONGRATS ON EXAM. HOW
ticketa after !he Michigan game between A CAIIPua OIIGHIZAnON TO ACT MONEY FOR M.S.U. TKS. NOW I NEED 0007 fOf detaill. 
BOUT A DATE? LOVE C.O. 

BUSINESS EXPRESS, INC. the atadium and St. Louil St. If any kind M OUR IIIEP FOfll OUR ANNUAL 2 USC GA'S. GIVE STEVE A CAll AT Wordpr~ng and typing h.-ted good Chrillian-type-of-fellow PIING MEAK TfiiiiPS TO FT. 3318BEFORE BREAK. WERE TALKING What ..e you trying to My? 
70 OPEL G.T. RED COMPLETELY 
272-8827 findl them caec 31, atudent) pleaM, LAUDIRDALI AND DAYTONA BUSINESS! 
RECONDITIONED 30-34 MPG A SHARP
pleaae, pleaH call &.rb! 2721 (32t PW) IIIACH -EARN C0--0118 MIR: wuthat you with that man on your 
I 
CAR. $2195. CALL 288-4093 
AIIID/Ofll FliiEI TNP. CALL Ollt WIIITI root? EXPERT TYPING SERVICE_ CAU.. Loat: blue back pack in lOUth DH 9/24 COMTAL TOUM P.O. .OX 12tl8 MAS. COKER, 233-7009 weat end It lunch contenta: caov. Con­UaLI, ILL 10112, 1-800-146-1471 OH TESS BABY: 
JACQUE HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY 
verae alloea, T.H. South T-ahirt and PERSONALS EVEN IN 85-86, WE'RE WATCHING 
LOVE, JOHN

TYPING-term papera, rfiiU"-, tett... lhor1a.IOCka and notebook if found YOU ... applieationa. Reaaonable ratea; pickup pleaae C8ll Kathleen at 3884 THANKS! 
0.. BP 2nd Floor Fellow "Friendl" and
and deliv.ry on C1111pu... available. Cell There i1 no auch thing u a problem wit­
Cathy Schultz ~5-10pm '07·5134 FOR SALE hout a gift fOf you in ita handa. Thole wild women from Mc:Candlea8 ticketholdera1 Have you fl'l• wondered why -·ve ltopped VISfTING? Have you
('Lean. Trilh. Kath, & 'Zanne) ..e at it 
LOST: BLUE JANSPORT BACKPACK noticed, OR DO YOU REALLY CARE?
You leek P~fN oecau11 you nHd AGAIN! Party at Purdu..OO lrilh!! See Why ian't walking up 2 flighll ol ataira u
'wAN;:eo:·Ori·~-~-~-i~-~~;·n;~ AT SOUTH DINING HALL, TUESDAY, 
1973 VW BUS. GOOD TRANSPORTA­their giftl. yath•e!
LUNCH, 24 SEPT. IF PICKED UP CAU.. ..Y fOf you u il WAS fOf ua? Wei it'a
Obeerv•. Takea about 2 houra a day, TION. $500. CALL 233-7297 AFTER 6 -Rich..d Bach. llualona. 
287 5623, OR DROP BY BASEMENT OF about time -a1 called a truceand put an
good pay. Hint•eated call Mark Pott• at P.M. To teddy bear bandill who kidnapped
ARCH. BLDG. ASK FOR AI..F. end to thia medneel! Let'a get back to the
~5303 Of 2450. Olivera needed fOf a1 OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. bear when "friend" dropped him out win­good 'ole daya. Sincerely, John & Jeffrey
daya NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL PROGRAMS cARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.. 1 dow at Le Mana. I am wi•ng to pay ran­
Thia Minneaotan huk*hie light blueim­FOR SALE-Great gift idea IOf "llumre", BlOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. aom. Leave him ina plain brown bag at Le itation "Member'a Only" jacket aome­
S1o-tll0 WEEKLY/UP IIAIUNG ~ parenta Of collectors. 1932 thru 1984. Mana deak and l'llhare care package w/
wh•e in O'at.g Of La Fortune and wil
CULAMI NO QUOTMI .NCEMLY Ov• 200. Cell Ken (211) 277-4342 Teke me home to Chicago and 1'1 be your you. Pteue return. He hal great Hn­have tor1110rt to ~ng hie heavy jacket, Thia Ia A PtnONII FOf You Bily-Biatlby
INIEltdfED fiiUIH MLF· friend forfl'l•. I need a ride the weekend tiii'*IWI v~e. Cal Sullie 5076 
capable o1 praaerving Nfe through eevere Happy Birthday El-Groeeo Have a good
ADDMieED ENVELOPE: auccna, FOR SALE: ADVENT LOUD ol Sept. 27. Cell Fran at2687. blizzard~, unlala it Ia found. Cell3584. day Of -·· BELCHA! Love and Ki­
PO IIOX 470CIQ, WOODITOCK, IL SPEAKERS, WALNUT CABINETS. TOM, URAQT.2bad1Mcalled4. 
Big 0, L.M.(my kneeee)
$200/PAIR CALL SUSAN 284-4604 Help ua avoid the Beantown bluea. Give Looking4-d2Rmygame. Katie T P.S. 
STOLEN: BROWN "INDIANA JONES" l.auri,Sally,Steve,Kate,Smelaa,
ua 1 ride to Boaton Of vicinity fOf Octoblf THANX! P.P.S. FiQht eong?... anytime1 Mc:Murphy,Sue.Waly,The Beaa-~ee. 
-· 
STYLE HAT, MY LITTLE SISTER SPENTYour Mother'a Plac:e CStanfOfd Hal break. Cell Marla 4174. 
Mick and FREDTHREE WEEKS SAVING HER AL·

Foodulea) wil be open during the ND­Happy Birthday to the fMteat whit.t)oy in 
LDWANCE TO BUY IT FOR ME AND
PurclJe Game Saturday Phone 3t88 NEED TWO USC GA'S. WIU PAY TOP the Weat. Van P. Thul'lday ­a BETH WELCOME TO NO FOR A GREAT
SHE WIU. BE SHATIERED IF I COME
Speciale: t" 1 topping pizza and 2 aoctaa TICKETS DOlLAR OR TRADE YOU LSU GA'S blaat ..... don't let the SMC Chaaa-girl get WEEKEND! WCAM? LOVE TERRYHOME WITHOUT IT. PLEASE RELIEVE 
fOf $2.90 12" 1 topping deep dilh pizza FOR THEM. CAll JODI 113693. you down (Maybe Saturday) GOTCHA YOUR CONSCIENCE AND MAKE MY
and 4 IOdU fOf $5.25 

GUIDO-my honey-Welcome to NO!
LITTlE SISTER HAPPY AGAIN. CAU.. 
I NEED USC GA'I Have caah & home LI.-Happy illrthclayll You .. HAPPY ANNIVIMARY acHNUCUIIa­
ILOVEyou!"ffUf Beby1644 OR ~OP IT OFF AT Hit DIU.ON 
GA'aiOfu.de: Cell DAVE 1712 .......We ..hera...Heve a ..-1LOVE YOUIIAME 
(NO QUESTIONS ASKED) THANKS 
wlttt your-fl'lendl ............ Love HAPPY ANNIVIMAIIY 1 need 4 dc:Uea for ND-uac. Cal 11art1 anclal...eoodatufffrom Dad,,..... acHNUCU~ LOVE YOUIUIU 
LOST: N.D. BASEBAU HAT IN MAIN
LOSTIF?UND I 

.....10. lt'a the 11th) etwte, Jen, 8molley and HAPPY ANNIVIMARY 1k* Sheehy, Flannlf' hal'a Reaident 
CONCOURSE A.C.C I NEED IT 
.hl hi 

acHNUCUMS-1 LOVI YOUIMUI Stu~in-trlining, tuma 21 today! Any of 
BEFORE THIS WEEKEND. LARGE 
I badly need G.A.'1 fOf all home ga,_, ND'a ben• half (the 30 percent) who REWARD. PLEASE RETURN TO 216
LOST: Man'a brown roury, pouibty in Of Cell Marty at 1 050. WANTED-Orivera to deliv• The Obeer­would Nke to help him linilh hil education 
STANFORD OR CAll 2084.
near CCE on Friday Sept 13. PJeua C811 v•. Takea about 2 houra a day, good ND/UICtaO (he teama lut) can C8ll him at 3715 and Bob at 233-2784. PftOOIGA&. aONa NEED TWO ARMY money. Orivera needed fOf al daya. If in­FINALLY 
off• her' aerv1cea.

FOUND: NO F004ball tickata inaide 
G.A.'S TO GET BACK IN THE HOUSE. tereated C8ll Mark Pott• at ~5305 Of 80FT8ALL PlCNIC TODAY~tedium on Saturday. They're IOf the
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. MONEY IS No CONCEfiiN TO US II 2450. 4:30 MOREAU FIELD WE COULDN'T FIND A BF SO A PER­
_.Of MCtion. Cd me to identify: Laura
PLEASE CONTACT ALICE IF YOU PLEASE CALL TIM 4246 OR JOHN (meet in ISO Lounge) SONAL WIU. HAVE TO DO. HAPPY
at272-3764.
KNOW OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. VERY 1628. N.D. WOMEN HWMI HIYA THUlE!! BIRTHDAY DEBBIE. MIC AND HOL IMPORTANT. 232-6061. OF THE K'S OF 321 HOWARD; 
Help I need 2 Almy GA'a. Have 1 USC 2 GUYS WHO "LIKE, LOVE TOFUTII HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY DEBBIE HEY DOMERS!!! My blue NO bookbag LOST: PANASONICCASSETTE FM/AM Stud and/Of c:aah to nde; C8ll Ned 1043 MAN" . Ill'.~: MERRY CHRISTMAS! BYRNES HAVE A GREAT DAY! HOU.Y WMtaken from the South Dining Hal aft• RADIO PLAYER. LAST SEEN ON FIRST AND HAVE "LIKE, TOTALLY BITCHIN 
MICHELE BRENDA dinner ThLnday the 1tch. Contenta: 2 FLOOR. AUGUSTA HALL. SMC. Need 1 Anny GA Cal Brian 1 605 HAIR" ATIENTION CALLERS, ATIEN­
ALL weldlea. room keys, Vtll'f important PLEASE RETURN TO PATTY FALLON. GET A CLUE IN LIFE! TION ALL UNO AND SMC LADIES: 
peyd'l. book and notea. PLEASE C811 me AM. 226, 284-5341. NO QUESTIONS I NEED 2,4,0R6 USC TIX, DAN 3475 HAVE YOU GOTIEN ANYONE FOR ARFY FROM MINN. NEEDS SOME YOUR8.Y.R.? HAPPY BIRTHDAY BETSY PATI<O
at4051. Thanka. AS!<ED. WARMTH ON HIS BOAY. CAll 1396 TO 
MAYBE YOU SHOULD JUST LOVE THE GANG MICHELE HOU.Y
I NEED MANY USC TCKS. WIWNG TO CHEER HIS SPIRITS OR STOP BY CAV I HAD MY STUDENT TIX BEFORE THE LOST: ROOM KEY WITH KEY CHAIN PAY GOOD$. CAU.. STEVE AT 4338. 8.Y.IELVIIII 152 AND SMACK HIM A SMOOCH!! DEBBlE BRIENDA MARCIA BRADY MR STA-PUFF PHIL PACKER SEAN PENN
MSU GAME, NOW I DON'T. I WOULD WITH NO CATHEDRAL. CAU.. 2736 OR 
LOVE TO HAVE AND WIFE r.tR WOO MARION
DROP OFF AT ROOM 342 PW. I NHD 4 nx FOIIt NO-UK GAllE. FOZZV MAR ·WE AT THE 'NAUGH 
THEM.AS$SS$$$$$SSSS$ I THINK I W/TIIXI21ETS OF 2. CAL&. --..nt. Thank You St. Jude ARE GLAD YOU AREN'T LIVING MCCANDLESS r.tR CLEAN CHUCK DICOLA PAPA SMURF AND PEE WEE
LOST THEM AT SENIOR BAR. PLEASE LoeT CALCULATOfll I LOST MY CAL· HERE,WE WOULDN'T WANT YOU TO CALL LARRY AT 1177.1 WIUIDENTIFY CULATOR. ITS A HP-11C. PR08ABLY NEED 2 AIR FORCE-NO TIX FOR A JOYCE-HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! Hope ANYWAY!!!! -GOON ThE SECTION AND SEAT NU..ER. LOST IN CUSHING OR FITZ. IF COLORADO FAN!! CAll KEVIN 4103 your 211t ia a great one. Thanka fOf •ng SKOL: HAPPY 1 YEAR! See Steve. THANK'S. FOUNO,PLEASE BOB auch good care ol u1. LOVE, your freah­20th IIII.IMAI Scoop can't fit the hot dog in hie mouth
CAU.. X1743 HAPPY .IITHDAY, 
man buddiea-JOHN, ROGER I BRIAN either! Oh come on ... nothing NXUal. I
THANX. NEED 2 GA'S FOR ARMY. CAU.. 284-CMiaey, to mel) Love your favorite little ail,
LOeT:IIY I.D. AT THE FOOTaALL 5523 hale when that happere. H-'• to Old
AMY!!! GAME MT. IT INCLUDUJ IIY LOST IN POST MICHIGAN STATE HEYLI. 
Style, wine codefa, roling down hill and DnDCIT'8 A sao MPL.ACIIIENT GAME FESTIVITIES: Levl'a denium NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE ARMY GAME. Aaenllon Oft-CM!pua .,OChaN and
HAPPY 18TH parking tickata! Love, Elizabeth C. Meat­
1 I 
FH)lo.IIONEY, AIIO IIY PMYIJI back-~. containing beige puraa CALL SUE 284-54n. HAVE A GOOD ONE! ...... loef CAIIOa TO 81'. JUDE! PUME and wool blaz•. Hfound, pleaea cont8ct LUVYA, Poat Purdue Picnic At J'OtAea ..,._ M1'UIIN TO KATHLEEN, 211 •.P. 011 Jo at 284-4424. I NEED CU. FOfll PUfiiDUE.272-GOI PATTY, FRAN, CATHY
1 ............llav......Collee and 
c CALL1271­
Jokea LOOK OUT! ITS MARILYN'S 18th B­
:', 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S FOR PARENTS­W_,., PenNalftl Till P.ll. Actlv• DAY! GIVE HER A CALL AT 284-4407 LOST: PLATINUM DIAMOND ENGAGE­THE RUSSIANS ARE COMING! oc­
CALL 283-3536 Don'tV...... AND WISH HER A HAPPY B-DAY! MENT RING IN OR AROUND STADIUM TOBER11 
-soNNY 

OR ACe PARKING LOTS. GENEROUS FOR RENT NEEDTWO U8C Q.A.'8 THE WHO STOLE
TO PERSON MY 
REWARD OFFERED. CALL DAVE AT 283-1041. 
LOST: PAIR OF ADIDAS CLEATS. LEFT IN NA" LINE LAST WEEK. PLEASE RETURN, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CA8H AEWARO OFFERED. CALL 2002 OR OAOP OFF AT 41tSTANFORD. 

Student -1w0 rooma. lhower. private entrance .. uti.tlea paid 288-0t55/277­3e04 
Roommate needed to ahara 3br houae clolll to NO. Cal287-4748 
CAU.. JIM 2a.a412 5-7 P.M. 
FREE SEX FOR 2 ARMY GA'S CAll ClAYTON AT 1373ALSOPYCASH WIU. PAY TOP DOUAA FDA 2 'JSC 
GAalx2280 
ALL THE SMIRNOFF ONE CAN HANDLE!! OCTOBER 11 
RNIOMI TICKETS FOR FOOTBAU. PARTY during SeniOf Informal Weekend 
• wll be on .... October 1&2,Tueeday1Wedneadly 6-8pm LaFortune Into Deek 
8()()J(8AG IN .SOUTH DINING HALL­PLEASE RETURN MY ClASS NOTES. YOU PR08A8lY CAN'T USE THEM, ANYWAY. KEEP MY CALCULATOR AND AU. MY 8001<8-FROM EVERY ONE OF MY CLASSEs-JUST PLEASE RETURN MY CLASS NOTES TO 210 KEENAN. 
VARSITY CREW: GOOD LUCK in Dea­Moinea novice men and women -1 be thinldng ol you! 
STEVE HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY! I HOPE YOU ENJOYED THIS DAY AS MUCH AS I HAVE THE LAST TWO WEEKS. LOVE, SUSAN 
The Obserwr Friday, September 27, 1985 -page 9 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 8 
The ND Women's Cross-Country Club 
will participate in the National Catholic Meet today at 3 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. -The Observer 
The Domer Runs are coming on Saturday, 
Oct. '5. The deadline for entries for the three-and six-mile events is 
today in the NVA office in the ACC. For more information, see page 
16. -The Observer 
The ND-Purdue football game wm be broad· 
cast live tomorrow on WVFI AM-64. "The Irish Today" pregame show will start at 11 a.m., and Chuck Freeby and Pete Pranica will have the play-by-play beginning at 1 1 :40 a.m. -The Observer 
The ND lacrosse team wm have strength testing with Gary Wei! on Sunday at 12:30 p.m. in the weight room.· The Obseroer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will travel to Lake Michigan on Sunday. All club members who are interested should call Kevin or Brian at 283·1148. -The Observer 
.SMC flag football signups will be held until Monday at the Angela Athletic Facility. Games will begin next week. · The Ob· server 
The ND junior class wm sponsor a softball festival on Friday, Oct. 4 beginning at 4 p.m. Teams will consist of 10 juniors, four ofwhom must be women. Prizes will be awarded to the winnng team, as well as to the team with the most creative uniform, and food will be provided for all participants. The $5 entry fee may be given to dorm reps or to junior class reps at the dining halls on Tuesday and Wednesday from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. -The Observer 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame field hockey team used a stingy defense to subdue Hope College by a 5-0 score yesterday on Cartier Field. 
Molly McCabe and Corinne DiGiacomo powered the Irish of· fense with two goals apiece. 
Notre Dame Head Coach Jill Lin· denfeld singled out the defense as a factor in helping the offense to get rolling. 
"Our defense, Mary Rose Rodgers in particular, was excellent throug­hout the game," she explained. "We made good passes up to the forwards but they were not scoring. It was very frustrating. 
"Finally, in the second half, our of­fense broke loose and took advantage of the scoring oppor· tunities." 
Despite the missed opportunities, the Irish ended the half with a 2·0 lead. Melissa Sommer opened the scoring with a rebound shot, and Molly McCabe scored after receiv­ing a solid cross-field pass from Mary Rose Rodgers. 
Notre Dame exploded for three more goals midway through the second half. Molly McCabe set up Corinne DiGiacomo nicely with the third goal for the Irish. McCabe and DiGiacomo each scored again to close out the scoring. 
Irish goalies, Patti Gallagher and MaryJean Beetel, had little action in front of them as Hope attempted only one shot on goal. 
l.indenfeld said she thought the offensive outburst would help in this weekend's play. 
"Hopefully, the offense will have 

Field hockey team wins, 5-0 

APphoro 

That Hurts! (no bull) 
A raging bullgets his horns into the Spanish bull­fighter "Cannelo" in a Madrid bullfight last week. 
Fortunately for him, "Cannelo" walked awayfrom his abuser with only mouth injuries. 
some confidence this weekend after Those tough games will be in breaking loose for those second-half West Lafayette, Ind., as the Irish take goals. We have two tough games this their 4-2 record against Big Ten foes weekend." Purdue and Ohio State. 

Notre Dame field hockey player Benet DeBerry attempts to get control ofthe ball in a match earlier this season, while coachjill Lindenfeld looks on in the background. Yesterday, the Irish defeated Hope College, 5·0. RickRietbrock hasmoreon thegame in his story at the left. 
USFL team after AI Harris; Vernon Maxwell also sought 
A.ssociated Press 
PHOENIX · The Arizona Outlaws say the'y hope to sign former Na· tional Football League linebacker Vernon Maxwell and have made an offer to linebacker AI Harris, a con­tract holdout with the Chicago Bears this season. 
Maxwell and Harris played col· legiately at nearby Arizona State for Outlaws head coach Frank Kush. 
M~ell, who also played for Kush for two NFL seasons with the Colts in Baltimore and Indianapolis, was traded to San Diego this season and then was cut by the Chargers. In 1983, he was the NFL's defensive rookie ofthe year. 
Outlaws co-owner Bill Tath~m Jr. said Maxwell talked to Kush two weeks ago about playing for Arizona and someone in his organization has begun "very, very informal" con· tract talks with Maxwell. 
The Outlaws reportedly have of· fered Harris a four-year contract worth more than S1.2 million. 
"We're taking the offer seriously, but it will have no effect on our negotiations with AI. We do not con­sider a USFL team as a factor in the negotiations," Bears general manager jerry Vainisi said Wednes· day. "In the course of some 60 con· tracts I've done this year, they've been a couple of occasions when a USFL offer came up and we told the agents to accept the offer with the USFL, that it was their perogative." 
Vainisi said the Bears' original of· fer to Harris of S825,000 over three years has been taken off the table. 
Harris' agent, Ethan Locke, said the Outlaws' offer is more than the Bears' "in straight dollars" and hinted that his client is prepared to sit out the 1985 NFL season. Arizona's offer reportedly starts at S250,000 and jumps to S400,000 in the final year. 
"The dollars are there. The structure of the deal is the thing," Tatham said. "The time factor is not critical for us, but it may be critical for AI." 
"We'd still like to have him play for the Bears," Vainisi said. "He's made a good contribution to the team, but he's priced himself out of the NFL" 

Baseball Standings 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE EMt EMt 
w L Pet.. GB w l Pet. 011 Toronto 95 57 .625 -St. Louis 97 56 .634 -NewYorit 89 62 .589 5.5 New York 93 60 .608 4 Baltimore 80 71 .530 14.5 Montreal 79 73 .520 17.5 Detroit 79 73 .520 16 Philedelphia 71 80 .470 25 Boeton 77 76 .503 18.5 Chicago 71 81 .467 25.5 Mil-ukee 67 85 .441 28 Pittsburgh 52 98 .347 43.5 Cleveland 55 99 .357 41 
WNt WNt Kansas City 86 66 .566 -La. Angeles 89 63 586 ­California 86 66 .566 -Cincinnati 83 68 .550 5.5 Chicago 79 73 .520 7 Houston 78 74 513 11 
CJakland 74 79 .484 12.5 San Diego n 75 .507 12 
Seattle 71 82 .464 15.5 Allanta 62 90 .408 27 Minneeota 70 S3 .458 16.5 San Franciaco 59 93 .388 30 Texu 58 94 .382 28 
Thu.-.dey's"-ub Thursday's "-ulta Boston 4. Toronto 1 St. Louis s. Philadelphia 0 Kansas City 5, Seattle 2 New York 3. Chicago 0 Chic.go 11. Oakland 7 Cincinnati 6. Adanta 1 s.ltimore 9. Milwaukee 1 Montreal at Pittaburgh. ppd .• rain Texu2. MinneaotaO Detroit at New York, ppd.• ram 

The Observer Friday, September 27, 1985 -page 10 


Fr1doy
sophomore, and, then to No. 7 as a junior. His summer training was 

$.50 14 oz. Little Kings
distance-base orientated, and he has continued his improvement. In that 

Beer. 
way, he is a fine example to walk-on members of the team. "Motivating this group is not a dif· 

Obstacles stand in way of the Irish as they try to improve soccer mark 
ByPHRWOLF 
AssistantSports EditOf' 
The members of the Notre Dame soccer team, who already will "have their hands full" with some tough competition this weekend, also will have to overcome additional dif­ficulties, Irish Head Coach Dennis Grace said yesterday. 
Several players have been sidelined this week with injuries or illness, and the Irish will be without the full benefit of their services tomorrow when they play at Wisconsin-Green Bay and Sunday at Northwestern. 
Tomorrow's game will begin at 2 p.m., and Sunday's starts at 1 p.m. 
"Green Bay is going to be a good team," Grace said. "They're very tough at home. I know that we're going to have our hands full, espe· cially because we don't have some of our key players. Other players have the flu and will be getting back to (only) 80 or 90 percent by the time we play." 
The Irish will leave two regular starters, John Guignon and Chris Telk, behind when they leave for Green Bay. Guignon, a freshman wingback, is fourth on the Notre Dame scoring list with two goals. Telk, a senior captain, has recorded a goal and an assist as a midfielder this season. 
Four other starters, Randy Morris, Steve Lowney, Bruce McCourt and Dave Miles, have missed some practice time this week because of illness. 
Wisconsin-Green Bay will present the Irish ( 1-6-1 ) with a 4-3·1 record, which includes a 1-0 win over Wis­consin and a 0-0 tie with national power Akron. Green Bay currently is ranked fifth in the Mideast region, behind Evansville, Akron, Wisconsin-Milwaukee and Cleveland State. 
Tomorrow's game will be the first ever between the Irish and the Phoenix. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame will face the Wildcats of Northwestern, who have lost four games to the Irish in as many meetings. However, this season's squad is stronger than ot­hers the Irish have encountered, Grace said. 
"Northwestern is a much­improved team from last year," the Notre Dame coach said. "(Head Coach) Mike Kunert does a real good job with them. 

"I know coming off a Saturday game and then travelling to Northwestern on Sunday, we're going to be concerned that the kids get ready to play again. They (the Wildcats) will be a very good op­ponent, and we've got to be on our guard. If we're not, we're going to be in trouble." 
Additional trouble may hamper the Irish if the players cannot recuperate from their illnesses. 
"When you're sick, you don't recover as fast as you can after a game," Grace said. "So we're taking an extra player or two in case they don't recuperate as they should by Sunday. We'll still have some people to go in and take their place." 
Grace said his players' attitudes seem to be good. They have forgot· ten about last weekend's disappoint· ing 1-1 tie with Michigan State and 4-0 loss to Indiana. 

Inter hall 
continuedfrom page 12 

overtime ended the game. As Zahm "A"'s left wing Rob Paradise at­tempted to cross the ball for Chris Koster, the ball bounced offa Dillon defender and into the net. 
Zahm "A"'s captain, Bill Lane, pointed out the fact that his team is comprised of nine freshmen, and said that the work of keeper John Gisleson in the Dillon II game was "excellent". He admitted, however, that such a young team will have dif· ficulty playing in a division pop· ulated by older and talented teams such as Flanner and O.C. Crime. 
In the Eastern European League, Stanhrd defeated Pangborn on a 
DISCOUNT RECORDS &TAPES 
lOto 9 daily 1631 E. Edison noon to 6 Sunday South Bend 
INDIANA'S FINEST DISCOUNT RECORD STORE 
"Initially after the loss to Indiana they were a little down," he said, "only because of how they didn't play well and how Indiana really took it to them. But they seem to have bounced back, and they seem to be hungry, which is good. 
"They seem to be ready to go." 
Grace intentionally scheduled several tough games for the Irish this season so his players could grow. Now, as he has to deal with injuries, illness and travel restrictions, he said he still is not having second thoughts. 
"We're facing more and more ad­versity, but somehow we're going to do it," he said. 
The schedule does not get any easier for Notre Dame for the rest of the season, so ifthe Irish are going to tum around their 1-6-1 record, they might as well start this weekend. 
slippery Cartier Field, 3·1. Using goals from Rob Zilenski, Dave Stevenson, and captain Jim Byrne, Stanford got off to a good start this season. 
"We should do pretty well this year, even though we have a lot of freshmen on the team," said Byrne. 
Still, such bellicose statements will have to be kept in perspective in a league with O.C. SP, Dillon I, Holy Cross "8", and Flanner "B". 
This weekend a full slate ofgames is scheduled, featuring Howard vs. Grace "A" on Sunday at 4 p.m. on the South Stepan Field, Alumni vs. Holy Cross, Sunday at 3 p.m. on South Stepan, and Monday afternoon's 4 
p.m. slugfest pitting Sorin against 
O.C. Crime on South Stepan. 

\
. 
\ '· 
{ \ 
'} 
~ 
\ 
l \ ' 
\ 
\ 
\ 
~ 
\ 

l \ Irish 
l 
continuedfrom page 12 
before Marquette's four and five 

j 
men, we could win the race." The Irish, though, must also con­tend with several other strong 
teams. St. Thomas (Minn.) enters this season as defending NCAA Divi­sion III champions, and the Vil­lanova Wildcats boast the brother combination of Anthony and Gerry O'Reiley. 
Then there is Boston College, which provides an extra incentive for Magill. 

\ "I've run against two of the run­
) ners,John Cofepeck andJose Rocha, back home in Boston," says Magill. "They are both pretty good."
I Magill 
continuedfrom page 12

l nationals, to this season's squad,
) 
Magill considers this healthier squad

) 
a bit deeper than previous ones. 

'I 
Along with this, though, he senses the same "hardworking atmo­sphere" which characterized 1984. 
As co-captain, meanwhile, Magill views his responsibility as leading by example everyday and enjoying practice. 
"We encourage the younger members by recognizing their ac­complishments in practice and in meets," says Magill "The team con­cept is extremely important. 
"Only seven men run in the var­sity race," he continues, "but 15 to 20 members support them in practice and at meets. This is almost as important as running because it inspires the team spirit, and no one wins cross country meets without a team effort." 
Magill, who will graduate in the spring, has become especially close to the younger members of the team. 
"The younger runners arc impor­tant to me," he says. "When I graduate, I want the spirit and success to continue with them." 
Magill's success throughout his tenure has been clear. He has steadily improved from No. 12 man freshman year, to the No. 9 place as a Magill also notes that it will be dif· 

ficult to improve on his 17th place 
showing last year. 
"I hope to place somewhere in the 
top 15," he says. "But the field is a lot 
deeper talent-wise." 
The Notre Dame women's cross country club, meanwhile, will race against 15 varsity women's teams this year. Club president Mary Beth Fisk noted that the club usually does not run against these teams, so she really does not know how they will perform. 
The top runners for the club are Julia Merkel, Nancy Laughlin, Kath· leen Lehman, and Susan Wanchow. 
Spectators are welcome for both races. Piane notes that there are several spots on the course that the runners pass three or four times, so it is easy to catch most of the action. 
ficult task," says Magill "They have instilled already in themselves the discipline and work ethic from previous academic success required for admission to Notre Dame. Also, when you run with quality Division I runners, you improve toward their level" 
Magill, a walk-on who made it to co-captain, is proofof that. 
II!P.40Sale 
All the top 40 on sale starting at just $5.99 includes: Dire Straits, Sting Billy Joel 
CLASSICAL TAPES 


3/$1 QOO 
LONDON•DG• PHILLIPS • 
COLUMBIA • ANGEL • AC,'\. 1 00s at 3~~ 
YOU CAN WALK TO TRACKS At the corner of Edison Rd & St. Rd. 23 Just across from the King's Cellar 
CASH PAID FOR LP's•TAP 's 


BUY•SELL·TRADE 
GUITAR STRINGS 

ONLY
Marquis 
Martin 

$4.99
Guild D'Addario Dean MariCley 






~~~C3L~------------------------------------------·F•r•id•a•y•,•S•ep•t•e•m•b•e•r•2•7•,•1•9•8•5--~-p-ag_e
__l_l 

Bloom County 
Zeto 
RUFFLE" <..;~


ACROSS 1 Red letters 5 Harvest 
goddess 

8 Go to mari(at 12 Auction 13 Cereal 15 Before sol 
or space 16 NawHavan 
denizens 17 Iowa town 18 Swaddle 19 Lea offllms 21 Spark up again 23 Short wool 
jacket 25 Carmine 26 Prompts 28 Cut molars 33 Skiff 37 Energy 38 Distress 39 "Show Boat" 
air 42 -lizards! 43 Meadow 44 --do-well 
@1985 Tribune Media Se~~tlces, Inc. 
9/27/85

45 Traitorous All Rights Reserved 
general 46 Wood strip 7 More closely 48 Leprechaun considered 50 Immoderate 8 Cut 55 Top-drawer 9 Throng 60 Gr.goddass 10 Phonic 
of wisdom 11 "Essay on Man" 61 Fort -,Ky. poet 62 BeholdIto 13 Title song of 
Pol rot Allee Faye 64 Lopsoff film 65 "-Wonderful 14 Signature tune 
Wortd" fora Duke 66-marbles 20 300 67 Absorbed 22 Consummate 68 Wordsworth 24 Give off smoke 
work 27 Hex 69 Wind lnstru· 29 Hibernia mant for short 30 Poinciana e.g. 70 it. city 31 Lifted, nautically 
9/27/85

DOWN 32 Pitcher 1 Customers 33 Gaucho Item 47 Topper 55 Passup 2 Orchid tuber 34 Ace 49 Dummies 56 "Do -others.••" 3 Muck 35 Ladd or Arkin 51 Partake 57 Modalact 4 Lac 36 Misprint 52 Waco's state 58 Quiz 5 Gar. physicist 40 Certain runner 53 Not competent 59 Latvian city 6 Fruit 41 Globule 54 Social class 63109 






:·········Jl~~'S •
• 

• ATPURDUE • 
• Invites NOTRE DAME fans to attend • 
• Pete's Breakfast Club • 
• Pete's egg sandwich $1.25 
• 

: Bloody Mary's & Screwdrivers $1.00 •
•

• Amstel, Heineken's and Grizzly Beer $1.25 
• 

• OPEN AT 7 A.M• 
•

• WLZR will be broadcasting-live from Pete's • • • Pete's • • • • • • • • • • • • 200 North Western • • • • • • • • • • 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


psycHIATRIC JiELP 
5¢ 
~. lUCY ~ PELT 
, Kevin Walsh 


Late at night, his own stomach would foil Gordon's attempt at dieting. 
Campus · 
FRIDAY, SEPI'. 1.7 SATIJRDAY, SEPT. 1.8 
•12:15 
P.M.· 1:00 P.M.· Lecture, "Housing •8:00 A.M. · 3:00 P.M. · Eum, Educational Discrimination in South Bend", Richard Testing Service Examination, Engineering Lamanna, University of Notre Dame, Room Auditorium • 124 Centerfor Social Concerns, Brown Bagor •7:00 P.M. · Gospel Concert, "David and the Soup and Bread, $1 Giant", O'Laughlin Auditorium, Tickets: S6 in 

•3:00 
P.M.. Cross Country, Annual Catholic advance, S7 at the door Meet, Burke Memorial Golf Course •7:00, 9:00 and 11 :00 P.M. ·JuniorClass Film 

•4:30 
P.M. -Softball Picnic, Field behind "Karate Kid", Engineering Auditorium, Moreau Seminary; meet in ISO Lounge, Sponsored byjunior Class, Sl.50 Sponsored by International Student Organiza· tion 

•7:00, 
9:00and 11:00 P.M. -JuniorClass Film "Karate Kid", Engineering .Auditorium, 



l
Sponsored byjunior aass, $1.50 

•7:30 P.M. and 9:45P.M.· Friday Night Film •8:00 P.M. . Concert, Chestnut Brass En· 
Series "The Bostonians", Annenberg semble, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by Auditorium Department of Music 
Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
l A

Oven Fried Chicken Fried Chicken Beef Bourguignon BeefTaco~SoftsheUed Sole Florentine Zucchini/Mushroom Crepe Olympian Sandwich ComSouftle 

TV Tonight 

7:30P.M. 28 Mr. Belvedere 10:00 P.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 
8:00P.M.  16  Miami Vice  22  
22  Dallas  28  
28  Different Strokes  46  
34  Washington Week In Review  10:30P.M.  16  
8:30P.M.  34  Wall Street Week  22  
46  Father Michael Manning  28  
11:00 P.M.  28  
9:00P.M.  28  Spenser: For Hire  34  
34  Great  Performances:  "To  the  46  
Lighthouse"  11:30P.M.  16  
46  LescaAlive  1:00A.M.  16  

22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Jimmy Swaggan Weekly Tonight Show CBS Late Movie ABC News Nightline Eye On Hollywood Film OuJour: "Our Town" Praise the Lord Friday Night Videos All in the Family 
Cash 
•
tn••• 


The Observer needs creative, dedicated people to design ads, so ifyou're interested, call Mary Carol Creadon at 
283-3461. 

. .. on your artistic talent 




Irish hope to repeat Walk-on Magill as meet champions turns team leader 
By PETE GEGEN By MIKE SZVMANSKI 
Sports Writer Sports Writer 
This afternoon Notre Dame will be the host for the In the sport ofrunning, where individual accomplish­National Catholic cross country meet. The 3000-meter ments are usually highlighted, Notre Dame cross women's race begins at 3 p.m. and the five-mile men's country co-captain john Magill concentrates his efforts race starts at 4 p.m. exclusively to team goals. 
In the men's division, Notre Dame will be defending Magill began his careeras a walk-on, but through con­the title. The Irish come into the meet fresh off their sistent hard work has developed into one ofthe top five wins over Ohio State, Michigan State, and Missouri Bap­Irish runners on the squad. tist on September 13th. "John emphasizes a positive influence with an up 
Again seniors jim Tyler and john Magill will lead tempo, never a negative attitude," says Notre Dame Notre Dame. This meet also will mark the return of head coach joe Piane. "He is extremely dedicated, a junior Mike Collins to the lineup. Collins, who had been trait which comes across to the aspiring runners whom sidelined by a foot injury, feels that he is almost com­he unceasingly encourages." pletely over his injury. Magill placed tenth as the Irish No. 3 man at the 
season opener, but he knows that he can run better. He 
The team, however, will face some stiff competition expects this will come in today's National Catholic in the form of Marquette University. The Warriors are meet, held here at Notre Dame. led by Keith Hanson, who has won the National Cat· "I expect to be in the second to fourth man range at
"~w~.. ;~ :;!~~~
holic two years in a row. the National Catholic meet," says Magill. "We should 
"The only way he won't win it this year," joked Notre " have a four to six man pack right at the front." Dame head coach joe Piane, "is if he's in a car accident Piane echoes Magill's statements concerning the on the way here." depth ofthis year's cross country unit. 
Marquette also returns Dave Kalunzy, who finished 

"I believe that two weeks. of tough training has 
'~ y. 

second in this race last year, and Dave Onhman, who tightened the pack considerably," says Piane. placed tenth. Part of the r~ason for that depth may be because "It will be very difficult to win it again," notes Piane. .. Magill does not have any personal goals that do not tie 
_.,-*-.

"We'll be hard pressed to do it again." directly into team performance. 
. ·0 \ .. "
-~ -~ . . ...~-~ 
.

In looking forward to the race, Tyler also is keying on ,, .~· "The only goal one can have is to return to nationals
--~----~ 
...... _

Marquette. as a team," says Magill. "The team will improve over the "I plan on staying with Hanson as long as possible," course ofmeets and as key runners such as Mike Collins says Tyler. "I want to finish either first or second. Ifwe 1be Photo return healthy."
Tbe Notre Dame cross country team will begin competition tn
could get our (numbers) two through five men in Comparing last year's team, which finished 19th in
the National Catholic meet this afternoon here atNotre Dame. Dan see IRISH, page 10 Garrett andhis teammates will attempt to repeat as champions. see MAGILL, page 10 



Close games mark the opening of inter hall soccer season 
By TERRY LYNCH time, the game remained at 0-0 after Two more close games were the second half was pretty even," European League, Stef Doesdal of Sports Writer the two overtime sessions and was played in the North American said Cavanaugh captain Dan Carr. Keenan scored with 30 seconds left forced into a shootout. Both teams' League, as both Holy Cross and While Cavanaugh is expecting in regulation time to tie the match at 
Men's interhall soccer kicked off keepers, however, managed to stop Cavanaugh eeked out one-goal vic­some great things this season, it 1-l with Sorin and force overtime its 1985 season this past week with a one out ofthe five shots, so the score tories. Holy Cross used a goal from must find a way past a very strong and a shootout. By outstanding goal­slew of surprisingly competitive stood at 4-4 after the shootout. Dave Beckemeir with five minutes and potent Alumni team, which had tending by Keenan keeper Frank games, including two shootouts and Finally, St. Ed's john Kromer booted left in regulation time to defeat Car­no trouble in its first game of the Parigi, Keenan won the shootout, 3­a dramatic sudden death win. With the game-winner as Morrisey "A" roll. The Carroll "Vennin" jumped season by mauling Grace "B", 6-0. In 1, and earned the extra goal to walk 24 teams organized into four was unable to keep pace. out to a 1-0 lead early on in the a balanced scoring attack led by away with a 2-1 win. divisons, that kind of action should "It was the most organized game game, only to watch the Holy Cross Wynn Young, Matt Hanley, and john In other West European action, continue through the regular season we've played," remarked St. Ed's "Hogs" score a first-half equalizer Coveny, the "Dogs" ofAlumni got a Zahm "A" beat Dillon II by yet anot­and the playoffs. coach Charles Higgs-Coulthard. and go on to win the game. satisfying early victory. her one-goal victory, 1-0. Although 
The early-season intensity was St. Ed's is looking to keep the In a game pitting Cavanaugh "I'm pleased with the way we the Zahm squad controlled the ball epitomized in the South American momentum going this year in the against Fisher, Cavanaugh's Luis played," said Alumni captain Brian throughout the game, they were League as St. Ed's slugged out a 5-4 South American League, which in­Canales scored late in the first half Aquadro. "We have a lot ofreturnees unable to score on Dillon II until a 
I shootout victory against the Mor­cludes Grace "A", Zahm "B", on a 2 5-yard shot that proved to be and good freshmen out for the team fluke goal in the sudden-death r \ risey "A" squad. Howard, and the Off Campus the only scoring in the game. this year." 
~.$ see INTERHALL, page 10
A scoreless tie after regulation Benders. "We dominated the first half, but Moving over into the West 
~.-;\ 
~.. ' ~ ,: ~: )~ 
~.. 

Hey, could you pass the Wheaties? 
~ \ 
Here's a question for all the marketing majors. What type 
just one ·request for Saturday, though. Stay off my 1V
~. l 
of food product would manufacturers want to advertise screen Mary Lou Retton! 
~. {· 
Jeff
during the telecast of tomorrow's Notre Dame-Purdue
~ . 
. \ 
football game? •
r.. ,J 
Blumb 
~ t 
The answer, ofcourse, is breakfast cereal. Yes, the folks Purdue's jim Everett should test the Irish secondary as
Sports EdI tor 
at Wheaties would do well to promote their prod~ct while much a.., any opposing quarterback this season. The senior, the Irish and Boilers do battle -mainly because anyone ofcourse, made himselfa household name last year against who likes to sleep a little late on the weekend probably will the Irish in the Hoosier Dome. Don't expect Notre Dame to be just crawling out of bed come tomorrow's 11 :40 a.m. The cause ofall this havoc is, what else but, television. As be surprised by Everett's ability this time, though. kickoff time. with just about any other sport worth televising, 1V has Everyone over at the ACC knows what they're up against 

crept in and changed the complexion ofit. College football this week. That wasn't the case last week when the Irish 
Ever since last year's "deregulation" oftelevised college on a cool autumn afternoon, the way it should be, is not weren't sure which Michigan State quarterback they football, college football fans have been subjected to eating nearly the same anymore. would be facing. their breakfast as they watch players bang heads at a Last Saturday's showing certainly was impressive in preposterous hour for any kind ofgame. Gone the way of If someone had talked of artificial lighting by Musco many ways, yet, at the same time, no one will be confusing the dinosaurs is the standard, and more conventional, early before the 1982 season, the response from anyone listen­theSpartans with Oklahoma this season. It was a good start­afternoon starting time. It used to be that there wasn't a ing surely would have been, "Lighting by who? Muskrat?" ing point for the rest of the season, however, although week when the Notre Dame game didn't start at either one Today, seeing the Musco trucks pull up to the stadium on tomorrow's game should have the effect ofturning the '85 or one-thirty. Wednesday is as much a part of the game a.., the band and campaign one way or another. 
cheerleaders. Well, let's not carried away. Maybe the two The best sign coming out of last week's game just may 
Now there's 11:40 kickoff times, 3:40 kickoff times, 6:40 aren't quite the same-but they are close. have been some of the creativity and risk-taking with play kickoff times, kickoff times all over the place. You name a selection. While it didn't work, perhaps the best call of the time of the day on any Saturday during fall and there's It's not that night games are inherently bad. It only day was Notre Dame's first-half, fourth-and-one attempt at 
probably a football game starting at that time. makes sense for Arizona State to play its games at night to a pass in Michigan State territory. Frank Starns was wide­Last week's Notre Dame-Michigan State game began at avoid the afternoon heat of the Southwest. But why do we open on the play as the Spartans clearly were caught off­
·I 
6:45 p.m., this week's contest gets under way at a pre­need to have so many other games at night? TV money guard.
i! 
) 
lunchtime hour and next week's game at Air Force will dictates this, as we know, and. like anyone else, the powers More of the same unpredictable playcalling tomorrow 
\ 
start somewhere in between, at 2:30 p.m. that be in college football listen when money is talking. would sit well with Notre Dame fans, no doubt.
( 



Mary Healy and Kris Murphy 
features staffwriters 

S 
crew -Your-Roommate. The dance with a difference. The tryst with a twist. A chance with a chump. Or a bash with a beauty. 
Only at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's could such a concept have become the pivot around which social life revolves. 
In their short existence at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, Screw-Your-Roommates (more
fun or flops? delicately known as SYRs) already have taken on the prestige ofa weighty tradition. A dorm that does not hold at least one SYR in a semester is seen as socially backward. A student who doesn't attend any SYRs in his college career is left out of many conversations. 
You may love them, you may hate them, but you can hardly ignore them. SYRs have become as 
~:r~~~-·/:~·  "t  
'.:'»-~ ·~:~  ~. :··~f/, ~ '· -'"r"'~ ..~ --:• .. -. _,::,.:L -~ 'Y~':'l~~­ ..  
. <  : ; -~:If -·-·:-~;..::-~-~~.1  

much a part ofNotre Dame as the Golden Dome. 
Actually, they only have been around for seven 
years. The whole thing began in 1976 with the 
then-novel idea ofan all-hall dance, according to 
Sister jean Lenz, assistant vice president for 
student affairs and former rectress ofFarley. That 
idea was born in 1976 with the first Pop Farley 
birthdaycelebration, for which the dorm had to 
obtain special permission, she said. 
Two years later, according to Lenz, a women's 
dorm (she and other former rectors are uncertain 
as to which one) became the first to hold a dance 
and call it a Screw-Your-Roommate. It was simply 
the name ofan all-hall dance that was supposed to 
be all blind dates, but the idea spread like wildfire. 
By 1981, all dorms were holding SYRs, some not 
even pretending to hold to the blind-date idea. 
"There were a lot of reverberations from that 
event," she said. "We had such a good time-the 
hall was themed and decorated, and there was 
nothing like that before. People asked, 'When can 
we do it again?' It became an annual thing." 
One reason for the spread ofhall dances, Lenz 
believes, was that they were one ofthe few 
situations where alcohol was allowed. 
Lenz believes SYRs are now phasing out. "I 
think people put themselves in a difficult situation 
socially in that setting. You get somebody you 
don't like, you start at 8, and it goes all the way to 
1," she said. "I get the impression that it's getting 
hard to get the whole hall to do this." 
Cavanaugh Rector Father Matthew Miceli noted 
that at Cavanaugh's first SYR in 1979, "the decora­
tions were enormous. But now they are minimal." 
Lenz said she doesn't know what may take the 
place ofSYRs, but the University is trying to bring 
social life out ofthe dorms by introducing such 
alternatives as new Around the Corner Club. 
An informal survey revealed that for many 
students, SYRs still are seen as a major source of 
fun and a way to meet people. 
"They're a blast and this campus is so boring 
that any social life is good social life," Bob 
Cahelsky, a Stanford sophomore. "It also gives you 
chance to drink." 

"I think they're a good alternative, but I tell 
~~••n•.cu that basing a date on just looks is 
immature," said senior Laurene Powers of 
Pasquerilla West. "They have a good mature party 
atmosphere with a chance to meet a lot of 
people." 

Many students said they "cheat" and do not follow the blind date theme strictly. Technically, for an SYR, you should call up a blind date for your roommate and not tell her who it is until he shows up for the dance, and vice versa. But of course, this doesn't always fit the plans. Following are several ways mentioned to get around this: 
•The 
main way to cheat, ofcourse, is to choose your favorite "scope" and tell your roommate to call him. "We are having an SYR this Friday, and I thought you might want to go with jane," your roommate says. "Don't tell jane I'm asking you, because she doesn't know." Meanwhile,jane is listening near the phone with bated breath. 

•SYRs 
are inextricably linked to another Notre Dame tradition, the Dogbook. One common way to find that ideal SYR date is to simply page through it until you find a great-looking person. One slight disadvantage to this method is that people who happened to have good photog­raphers end up getting calls for 30 different SYRs in one semester. Another is that photos taken during junior year in high school can be very 


see SYRs, page 2 


~-----------------------------~---------~----------------------------------------------------------~----~--------------~~..............~.....
-

Happenings -page 2 Friday, September 27, 1985 



Simple, subtle, striking 
Maureen Marie Farley 
features writer 
l lD 
o you like diamonds?" "Mm hrn." 
"Yeah?" 
"Yeah." 
-The Time 
Saturday night SYR. Feeling like a 
million dollars, and oh, have you 
got the hottest date around. Ready 
to burn down the night. 
An SYR gives you the best ofboth 
worlds; it has the formality ofa 
major dance but doesn't have to be 
as serious. But it will assuredly be 
only what you make ofit. You can 
turn an SYR into "a dance I went to" 
or into a wild talk-about-it-for­
weeks kind of night. The choice is entirely up to you. 
Your look for the night is a major factor in how you will be perceived. Realize that few will challenge you on it. It's there and will receive a reaction and will receive a reaction. 
Question: What kind ofa reaction do you want? The decision to dress 


SYRs 
continued {rom page 1 
unreliable. 
•The 
dogbook is also key at the other end of the line. It is a well­known fact that when you are cal­ling for an SYR date and the person at the other end ofthe line says, "Can you hold on a minute while I check my calendar?" they are ac­tually frantically paging through the dogbook. To save time, some people simply have mentioned at the end of the call, "By the way, he's on page 32." 

•One 
nasty way ofcheating is to make up a "Top tO" list several weeks in advance, and have your roommate run down it in order until he gets an affirmative. 

•If
your date really doesn't know you, it is possible (though risky) to pretend you are your roommate and ask "Hey, would you like to go to our SYR with my roommate John?" Later you call up and say, "Hi, I'm John, your SYR date." 

•Corsages/boutonnieres 
always present a problem. You don't want to be tacky and not get one, but on the other hand you don't want to embarrass your date if he didn't buy one for you. The safest bet is to buy one and put in the refrigerator until the night ofthe dance. Ifyour date arrives without one, simply don't take it out (but be careful he doesn't see when you open the fridge to get a beer). 

•One 
twist to playing by the rules is to actually call a blind date for your roommate, and casually men­tion to him that you did so several days later. This is not recom­mended unless you are desperately trying to switch roommates. 


No matter how you work it, it is likely that SYRs will provide both your best and the worst times at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. As Lenz noted, "I've heard ofpeople who left (their dates) before a dance was over. But I'm sure there are people who have married their blind dates from anSYR." 

up or down is completely yours. There are no rights or wrongs in the look you create, though ofcourse the dress code is semi-formal at the very least. Subtle elegance, cool sophistication, wildly chic ... each look can conceivably make your date's knees weak. 
Simple, clean lines are key. This year's premise is to keep the dress a simple base that can be comple­mented with accessories. The idea is to keep the body ofthe outfit in a slim, fluid line. "Dressing" becomes the act ofadding to the base with eye-catching, head-turning acces­sories. 
The premise is the same for evening dress. The throwaway charm ofthe "little black dress" is still very appealing, but now flashed with color. Vogue's September issue suggests coloringand textures should be "almost fantasy-like in their decorativeness, their dazzle." Mesh, tulle, leather, cachmere, lace, velvet, satin, and watered silk are all 
extremely "touchable" signatures. 
But keep the styling simple to set 
offthe actual ..-dressing" pieces. 
Body-dressing jewels demand attention; with these, you can vir­tually do no wrong. Chokers of colored glass, stacked bangles on arms, and pearls dripping down the back ofa gown are coming up in the fashion scene. Gold in particular should be worn with daring, making the most ofits charms in the form of matte textures and unique bracelets against the background ofdark colors and simple shapes. 
Stockings are back in unusual textures, patterns, and colors to showcase the legs. And gloves, long and short, studded and jeweled, of suede, leather or lace, are ideal for playing offthe simplicity ofthe base dress. 
The ultimate objective is to create contrast and impact. Use colors that move to a rhythm with an intensity that grabs the eye. The total effect should be striking but not garish. Overpowering your date is not the goal. 
Aword for men. There is no need to feel limited to a traditional suit or coat and tie. Textures and colors are your forte and can be taken advantage of. Leather and suede carry a distinctly masculine feel as do wool and tweed. Accents like ties and collars can alSo be a major part ofyour dress. 
Cufflinks are a nice addition to any look. They carry a sense of romance and add a classy touch. 
Your choice ofcologne will be burned in her mind. Make it a good one. 
"So wbere's yourguts, baby?" 

Dress to kill. 

live at Chips 
Mark Allen Band 
Fri. & Sat. 75 ¢shots of rootbeer all night 
r------------------------~-----­
SUPER PREMIUM 
HOME MADE ICE CREAIJI 
Cheesecakes(homemode) 10 Different Coffees and 10 Different Teal Cappaclno Croulsant Meals and Homemade SOUp 
DISCOUNT COUPON Buy one Icecream treat. Get one of equal value FREE. Good from 9/26 to 10/3 


826 W. Edison Sun.-Thurs. 11am-11pm Mishawaka 258-0m Fri.&Sat. Open till12 Midnight 
(Handpacked Ice cream not Included) 

NIG TCLUB 
Come to Tivoli's 
South Bend's Party Headquarters 
Open 6 nights a week Drinking and Dancing 
9:00pm·? 
Located on U.S. 33 IY. at North Village Mall 277-1 


EUROPE 
Fall-Winter 
Callfor Lowest Rate and Assistance 
Seven Seas Travel 

525N•.Miclaigan 232-7995 

Happenings -page 3 Friday, September 27, 1985 

Recipe for an SYR 
Patti Tripathi 
features writer 

"Isn't he a total babe? Set me heated through. Makes about 7 
up with him for our SYR. He cups. has got to be the best looking guy in Tip: substitute 1/2 teaspoon the dog book," you tell your garlic salt, l/2 teaspoon celery seed roommate, who smiles cryptically and 1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire and asks you ifyou're sure. "Sure, sauce for Italian salad dressing mix. I'm sure," you explain. "I don't care Discussing the party mix really what other people say. It's what's ~tarts the ball rolling. It seemsjef­on the outside that counts." fery also likes to cook for parties. 
When that magical night finally The conversation jumps from topic arrives, it turns out your date is a to topic for over an hour, and you hunk all right; but ofwhat, you're don't even stop to look at your not sure. watch once! 
He hands you a wilted flower "But after all that party mix," you from Irish Gardens and says: say, "I could really use something to "Greetings. My name is Jeffery drink." Rump." You sigh, resigning yourself "How about some of that Irish to the situation. Meanwhile, your coffee over there?"sugges.tsjeffery_ roommate Barbara Ann is flirting "I don't know," you reply warily. with the gorgeous swimmer you "Irish coffee sounds pretty fishy. Is got for her date. it green? What's in it exactly?" 
Thus the evening begins. Jeffery "Irish coffee is my specialty!" is immediately attracted to the exclaimsJeffery, as he begins to bowl ofparty mix, which just hap­explain how to make the hot wants to do," she says, pointing "You'll have to give me the recipe." Before you know it, the night is 
pens to be one ofyour favorites, creamy party favorite: exasperatedly to her hunk date, "is Crispy marshmallow treats already over. You meet Barbara Ann also. "Hey, great! Party mix," he drink the strawberry punch. It fits 112 cup butter or margarine glumly escorting her date to the yel.J.s. "I've always wanted to know Irish coffee into his training diet because it has 5 cups miniature or 40 large door. "He didn't eat anything she how to make this." Cooking for 3-112 cups water no alcohol. He won't tryanything marshmallows repeats dramatically. "He said he parties happens to be one ofyour 2 tablespoons instant coffee else!" 5 cups crispy rice cereal had to watch his weight." hobbies. "Party mix is so easy to 2 tablespoons sugar You tell Barbara Ann that you're Place butter in 12 by 7-inch glass After kissingJeffery goodnight, make,'' you begin. "It goes like this:" 1/3 to 1/2 cup Irish whiskey sorry she's not having fun. "But you baking dish. Microwave for l to you make plans to go out next 
l /4 cup whipping cream, whipped know how irresistible the punch 1-1 /2 minutes on medium-high weekend, too. He and the hunk 
Munchm.b: Combine all ingredients, except must be. We did make it ourselves." (Roast), or until melted. Stir in walk out into the night together, 1/2 cup butter or margarine whiskey and whipping cream, in 4 Strawberrypunch marshmallows. Microwave for one Jeffery with a full stomach and I pkg. ( 6 oz. ) Italian salad dressing cup glass measure. Microwave for 8 1 2-liter bottle 7-Up minute on medium high. Stir and Barbara Ann's date with an empty mix to 10 minutes on high, or until hot 1 can ( 12 oz.)frozen orange juice continue cooking for 1·112 to 2 one. 2 cups salted peanuts (about 200 degrees F). Stir in whis­concentrate, thawed minutes on medium-high or until "After all," you repeat softly to 1 cup pecan halves key. Pour into mugs or glasses. Top 1 can ( 12 oz.) frozen lemonade marshmallows are softened. Stir yourself. "Didn't I always say it's 2 cups pretzel sticks with dollop ofwhipped cream. concentrate, thawed until smooth. Mix in cereal. Press what's on the inside that really 2 cups toasted oat cereal Makes about six 6-oz. servings. 2 lbs. strawberries (frozen or fresh) into baking dish. Cool until set. Cut counts?" 
Place butter in 12x9 inch glass Blend all ingredients together. into squares. Makes 24 to 30 crispy baking dish. Microwave about 2 After two engrossing hours of Pour into a bowl. Top with ice squares. Above recipies (exceptfor straw­minutes on medium-high or until conversation, you decide that your cream and orance slice. Serves 15 For mint chocolate crispy treats, berry punch)from "Step byStep melted. Stir in seasoning and date might not be all that bad. "Why to 20 people. add 1 pkg. ( 6 oz.) "real" chocolate Guide to Microwave Cooking remaining ingredients. Microwave don't we try to mingle some While your roommate wallows in . pieces to butter. Microwave for 2 Basics" by Litton Microwave 

The ()bserver/Peul Pehoresky melted. Stir 1 I4 to 1/2 teaspoons peppermint extract into melted marshmallows. Increase cereal to six cups. 

misery next to the punch bowl, you minutes on medium high or until Cooking, copyright 1981. 
Father Robert Griffin at 5 p.m. (Saturday 
night vigil). Father George Wiskirchen at 9 a.m. Father Patrick Malony at 10:30 a.m. Father Andre Leveille at 12:1 5 p.m. 

Music 


•The Notre Dame department of music will present the Chestnut Brass Company as part ofthe University Artists Series. Chestnut Brass will perform a variety of music, including works performed on reproductions ofrenaissance instruments. 

•"Hoosier Sports," sponsored by the new The five trained musicians, who began as a Student Activities "Around the Corner" club, street band in Philidelphia, pride themselv will take place tonight at the Stepan basket­on their ability to perform in a wide variety

Misc. 
ball courts. Teams from each hall compete ofsituations and places. The free concert against each other. The winning dorm begins at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. receives a S200 gift certificate. •Help feed the hungry this weekend at the •Tonight the Holiday Star Theater in 
2 to 4 minutes on high or until awhile?" 

•Ponder the isst•es behind the clash between Victorian ideals and feminist ideol­ogy while viewing "The Bostonians," tonight's movie at the Annenberg Auditorium. Starring Christopher Reeve, Vanessa Redgrave, and Madeleine Potter, "The Bostonians" is a comedy with tragic overtones. The picture includes a detailed recreation of New England around 1875, the setting of the classic HenryJames novel on which the movie is based. The 7:30 and 9:30 
p.m. shows are S3. 
•Bring back summer memories with "The Flamingo Kid," this weekend's Student Activities Board-sponsored film. Matt Dillon playsjeffrey Willis, a young man from Brook­lyn who is facing a critical decision while having the time ofhis life at the El Flamingo 
Beach Club during tlte summer after his MJchlana Mennonite ReUefSale. Held at •"Around the Comer" is also hosting Merrillville brings you an evening with graduation from high school. Everything the Elkhart County Fairgrounds in Goshen, "Indiana Fun Night" tomorrow at the Peter, Paul, and Mary. The $15.95 perfor­about the El Flamingo impressesjeffrey, the sale is a means ofraising funds to support Alumni-Senior Club. Square dancing is mance starts at 8 p.m. 
especially Phil Brody (Richard Crenna). 
the world-wide reliefprogram of the Men­planned. All people wearing "country"
"Forget literature, religion, music, nonite Central Committee. The items sold apparel can take a shot at a Bob Evans gift .Check out the Ronnie Milsap Show thi philosophy ... things like that," Brody tells are from over 20 domestic and overdeas certificate by entering the Mr. and Mrs. weekend at the Holiday Star Theater in him during a spin in Brody's Ferrari. "You've projects. Dolls and stuffed toys from Ap­Farmer contest. Included in "Indiana Fun Merrillville Sunday. Tickets for the 7:30 sho never seen a philosopher drivin' a car like 
palacia, wooden bowls from Haiti, and Night"are free food and top-40 music from are S14.95. 
this. Socrates rode around on a donkey." 
articles embroidered by Arab refugees are a 10:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Produced by Garry Marshall of"Young few examples. Every dollar used to buy sale Doctors in Love," "The Flamingo Kid" is a 
items will be contributed to relief. •Are you a sophmore? Ifso, join the 
story about values and the decision all 
sophmore class canoe trip Sunday from 11 
Art
post-graduates must make about which road 
•The Acting Ensemble presents the}. a.m. to 3 p.m. Tickets are $5 and are available 


to follow in life. Tickets are Sl.50 for the 7, Hartley Manners comedy "Peg 0' My Heart" at the sophmore class offices. 
9:15, and 11:30 p.m. shows in the Engineer­in the Recital hall ofthe Century Center this ing Auditorium. 
weekend. Tonight's and Saturday's shows •Seniors-take the "Senior Challenge" •The Annual Faculty Exbibidon con­begin at 8 p.m., and the Sunday matinee starts Sunday at the Burke Memorial GolfCourse. tinues this weekend in the O'Shaughnessy at 2 p.m. Sign-up time for the lO a.m. golf tournament East Gallery and courtyard. The exhibition 
is 9:45a.m. The winner receives dinner for includes recent works by members ofthe two at Macri's. Notre Dame department ofart, art history, 

•The 
Morris Civic Auditorium hosts "Let the Good Times Roll" Sunday at 7:30p.m. The show features Del Shannon, The Drifters, Low Christy, and Danny and the Juniors. 

•Scottsdale 
Mall hosts an exhibition of vintage Ford Mustangs that begins today. The cars will be available for viewing from 10 




and design. 
•"FourWoman Photographers" is the title ofan exhibition featuring works byJoan

Mass 

Salinger, Andrea Eis, Constance Bruner, and Freedom Lialios. The exhibition, which is free to the public, will be held in Moreau The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Gallery at Saint Mary's until Oct. 18. The 
Matt Dillon in "Flamingo Kid" 

a.m. to 9 p.m. Church this weekend will be: exhibit is free to the public. 


-~-----------~----------­
Happenings-page 4 Friday, September 27, 1985 
·Laugh with comics; laugh at drunk b9ors 
John Affleck 

__.,___,..,_,_.._________
features staffwriter 

W
~dnesday I almost had a really good 
ume. 

My roommates and I went to the nightclub 
Chips to catch a couple ofcomedy acts. The 
comedians were slick, the club was passable 
and the beer was definitely all right. Unfor­
tunately, the townie clientele did their best 
to ruin everyone's evening. 

Chips has been hosting comedians every 
Wednesday night since February, according 
to Manager Elaine Kistner. Kistner said most 
ofthe comedians come from either the 

Chicago or Detroit area, though the featured 
comedian last week was john McDonell, an 

Englishman from the Finsbury Park section of 
LOndon. Admission on comedy night is 13 
and one must be 21 to enter. 

As a building, Chips is a cut above regular 
Domer bars such as the Commons, Bridget's 
and Mr. D's. The bar is divided into two 

rooms. One is a long room, with a large bar 
extending down the left side as one enters, 
and a small dance floor converted into a stage 
for the comedians at the far end. Offthis 

room is a lounge with a big screen television 
and the standard barroom video games: 
Pac-Man, Centipede and Electric Darts. 

Chips is spacious, and though the decor is 
nothing special, it was a refreshing change 
not to be crushed getting a drink. In fact it 
wasn't necessary to go to the bar at all as 

Chips has a couple ofwaitresses who visited -our table frequently. The comedians were obviously profes­
sionals who knew their craft. Opening was Kevin Norman, a Chicago native who enter­tained the crowd for half an hour with infectious, Eddie Murphy-esque humor. His topics included family life, fat jokes and imitations ofjames Brown and a drunk driver ("I ran over your dog. I'm sorry, but you shouldn't let him run around in your back­yard.") 
After Norman finished his act, the natives started to get restless. Chip's master of ceremonies came out to ask the audience of about 50 people, mainly Hoosiers, to allow the featured comedian the chance to get through his jokes. 
The request had no effect. McDonnell had been onstage no more than 30 seconds when he was heckled by a sizeable group ofdrunk patrons at a table in the center of the room. The hecklers were led by a guy who said he "works 'sat da' effanol plant" -need I say more? 
For about 30 minutes these people kept up a continuous flow ofinnane comments aimed at the stage. To McDonnell's credit, he was able to make the most ofthe comedic poten­tial ofhis attackers. Finally, the hecklers became preoccupied with grabbing at a waitress and shut up, giving McDonnell a chance to get into his standard material ­which was quite funny. 
McDonnell's observational style ofhumor, vaguely reminiscent ofGeorge Carlin, worked especially well when he talked about places such as Alabama ("There are some retarded people down there, and they're in charge.") and about women ("I love ladies­where would men be without them? Probably in a circle somewhere.") 
Until something is done about audience respect for performers, I would not recom­mend Chips for anything but a large group of people capable ofdominating the atomo­sphere ofthe bar. 
Chips is located on 746 South Eddy St. off Mishawaka Avenue in South Bend. 








"HOOSIER HYSTERIA" 
.-r\ 

TONIGHT TOMORROW 
0

"Hoosier Sports" "Indiana Fan Night" Stepan BasketbaU Courts Ala•ni-Senior Club 7-10 pOl 8p•·lam ~ Eyep!s; EyepJs; 
Hayrides 

~ 
Free·throw shooting Bonfire Watermelon pitching Square dance 0Watermelon eating 
"Real dance'' 

Watermelon seed spitting Horseshoe pitching 0 Tonsoffood 
0 
Cider "Exotic Breadsn d'o~$200 Gift-certificate 
Peanuts ~~ 
c 
..,
for winning dorm Best dressed ''Hoosiers,, ""'<J. win Gift Certificates to Bob Evans 
0 0
IETuEIE 

0 



'THESEEVENTS WILL CHANGE THE WAY YOV THINK ABOVTHOOSIERS" 

' r.p-• 
l'h(.· St.u.Jium ···,: 


Fighting Irish vs. Purdue 
Time Saturday, September 28, 1985 
11:40 EST 

Series Notre Dame 34, Purdue 20, two ties 
Last September 8, 1984 Purdue 23, Notre Dame 21 
Meeting 

Rankings Notre Dame unranked Purdue unranked 
Tickets Game is sold out 

Notre Dame 
Sept. 14 -lost to Mich., 20-12 Sept. 21-def. Mich. St., 27-10 Sept. 28 -at Purdue Oct. 5 -at Air Force Oct. 19 -ARMY Oct. 26-USC Nov.2 -NAVY Nov. 9-MISSISSIPPI Nov.16-at Penn State Nov.23-LSU Nov. 30 -at Miami 
Purdue 

Aug. 31-lostto Pitt, 31-30 Sept. 21-def. Ball St., 37-18 Sept. 28 -NOTRE DAME Oct. 5 -at Minnesota Oct.12-ILLINOIS Oct.19-at Ohio St. Oct. 26 -MICH. ST. Nov. 2 A NORTHWESTERN Nov. 9 -at Michigan Nov. 16-IOWA Nov. 23 -at Indiana 
Ross-Ade Stadium ( 69,200) 

WNDU-lV (Ch. 16) Jack Nolan andJeff Jeffers 
WTBS syndicated telecast Pete Van Wieren and Ron Kramer 
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and Tom Pagna WNDU-AM 1500 

· · · ' . The Observer Friday, september 21, t98s 

What is this thing anyway? 
Notre Dame, Purdue continue play for shillelagh 
H 
ByTRISH SULLIVAN 20 advantage over Purdue, with only two ties A consistent home-and-home series between Sports Writer having occurred in the series. the two schools didn't start until 1946, and play for the shillelagh didn't begin until 1957. The trophy was the brainchild of an avid But even without the trophy, the 11 years ere's one for the trivia buJJs. . . What Notre Dame fan and South Bend native. The prior to the shillelagh's beginning were not is the shillelagh and what has it got to do late Joe Mclaughlin brought back a shillelagh without their share ofthrills. with Notre Dame footbal!? from his trip to Ireland in the late 1950s. He 
donated the dub to then Notre Dame athletic One meeting, that of 1950, further intensified All right, it is a short, thick dub mainly used by director Moose Krause. Mclaughlin sug­the rivalrly. After losing to Notre Dame the Irishmen for walking. But there is much more gested it be used as a type of award between previous year at home by a 35-1 2 score, to it than that. It is somehowconnected with a the two schools to add incentive to the al­fourth-year coach Stuart Holcomb and the great college rilvary. Give Up? For a piece of ready intense rilvary. Krause tossed the idea Purdue team were out for blood. His vengeful the pie, the answer please: to Purdue athletic director 'Red' Mackey and Boilermakers were prepared to meet an Irish 
the rest is history. squad that had a 39-game winning streak on The shillelagh is the trophy awarded to the the line. winner of the Notre Dame-Purdue football Although many people may be wondering game. what makes this rilvary so special, one look at Irish coach Frank Leahy and the Notre Dame 
the longlist ofpast contests makes the answer team enjoyed a number-one ranking that 
Okay, so how many of you really knew that cle.ar. week, but wouldn't enjoy much else after that one? The shillelagh is a little known part of weekend. Purdue upset the Irish 28-14 on a Notre Dame lore, but it signifies one of the Notre Dame first met Purdue in 1896 when rainy South Bend afternoon, and the Irish biggest intrastate rivalries in college football. Head Coach Frank Hering and his Irish met would go on to finish the season at 4-4-1. Upon the conclusion of each contest, a mini-S.M. Hammond and the Boilermakers. Both ature gold football is attached to the base of clubs had even records of 2-2 at the time. ••1 remember that year the streakwas broken," the trophy with the name of the winner and Purdue came outon top, 28-22, and ever since the score ofthe game. Notre Dame owns a 34-that time the rivalry has flourished. see TROPHY, page 2-3 
mr•l~•n.--~a....aam·~••a~-m...aRs&,.~~.~{-~~~aa..sa..uza.aa~x...........2&R~~..........~~~UA~.._........._..._...~..az.-.m..~ 


Tim BroWn redeems himself 
Flanker forgets freshman flub to become starter 
By MARTY BURNS standing alone in front of the entire Notre 20-yard line I started smiling because I knew I Dame student body, caught the ball, but it was gone. I was talking after the game to my
Sports Writer 

W 
jarred loose when it hit one of his pads. The girlfriend back home, and she said I must have hen Notre Dame flanker Tim Brown Boilermakers recovered and wound up had a flashback from high school or someth­stood in the end zone before the student scoring a field goal to begin their eventual up­ing." body last weekend and raised the ball trium-set of the highly-ranked Irish. Woodrow Wilson High School in Dallas
phantly over his head, he had come a long 
way. To this day, Brown still remembers the col­_probably would like to have the flashy player lective groan of his schoolmates from behind back. In addition to his frequent touchdown runs, Brown racked up more than 4,000 yards
But the 93 yards he returned the ball against his back. while playing running back, wide receiver,
Michigan State on the opening kickoff of the "After that happened I wanted to go home," quanerback and free safety. In addition, he
second half was not the hard part. That was 
almost easy for the sophorpore spe~dster from says Brown. "I was never so embarrassed in all was captain of the football team, the track Dallas, Tex., because he had pulled offsimilar my life. I wanted to be on the next plane back team and the basketball team, and even was runs eight times in high school. The long path to Dallas. The guys on the team, though, told vice-president of his senior class. he had just completed, instead, was the road me to forget about it." 
"It is definitely a good memory," says Brownto a successful college career. 
Brown did, of course, and went on to catch a of his high school glory days. "The only bad Forgive Brown if he thought at one time that key 19-yard pass completion in the same thing was that most of the guys didn't care he would never see the finish line. Last year game. In fact, he grabbed a lot of aerials in about football. My three years on varsity we the 6-0, 192-pounder almost did not survive 1984 and has caught at least one pass in every were-4-25-1." the road back from the Hoosier Dome. game of his career. Still, many fans did not for­Yet there was no doubt to college recruiters 
get last season's blunder until Brown's that the kid from Dallas was a pure athlete and Playing in his first collegiate game, he was as­electrifying run against the Spartans. a winner. 
Plloco c:ounay oiNolft 0...!ipofu lnlbrmadoo ~
signed to return the opening kickoff of the season as the Irish met Purdue. The freshman, "It was great," says Brown. "When I got to the see BROWN, page 2-3 Tim Brown u.a.a.aa-...-......................._.~........aa.-................-.a....-.............._.~.;......._............~~~·~~~~ 
----------------------------------------· 


Irisb Extra -page 2-3 


Key for Irish is to be consistent against Purdue 

Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 
Hello again everybody! 

Last week the key word for Gerry Faust's Fighting Irish was "win," and Notre Dame achieved that goal by using an excellent game plan and-for most ofthe game-executing it. 
Anybody can win once in a while, though.Just look at the Pittsburgh Pirates. What makes the champions is the ability to win again. . . and again. . . and again. So, the key for the Irish this week is not only "win," it's achieving "consistency". 
Consistency and intensity are words Faust has used a lot during his tenure at Notre Dame. We've seen the intensity on several occa­sions, the most recent occurence being last week against the Spar­tans as the Irish shook off the doldrums suffered in the opener and came out fired up and ready to play. Consistency, however, has remained an elusive element for Faust's teams. 
Oh, certainly we've seen spurts ofgood play. The first four games of the '82 season and the last four games of '84 were examples of steady, winning football. In both streaks, the Irish used a solid run­ning game while shutting down the opposition's aerial attack. It cer­tainly wasn't the most exciting football, but it did produce four victories in a row, and that is the bottom line. 
The reasons the Irish were unable to maintain consistency in those seasons are very simple. In examining the breakdowns in those losses, the first thing one notices is that the running attack was not strong enough to establish the passing game. That meant the Irish found themselves in several long-yardage situations, and you didn't have to be in the Irish huddle to know the ball was going in the air. 
Secondly, the Irish defense may have been exceptionally strong against the run, but it certainly had its shart: ofproblems against the pass. Opponents with good quarterbacks knew this and took advantage of the weakness. While the running stats remained low, the passing numbers ballooned, as did the Irish loss total. 
In many ways, Faust's '85 edition resembles these teams. It was ob­vious Saturday night that once Notre Dame established Pinkett as a potent weapon on the ground, the passing game became increas­ingly effective. It also is apparent that the defense is strong enough to thwart an average or less-than-average quarterback, as it has in the season's first two games. 
Purdue, however, posses~s the qualities which have troubled recent Notre Dame teams. Jim Everett may be the premier passing quarterback in the Big Ten, and he certainly will test Notre Dame's defense unlike any other quarterback the Irish will face this season. 
Everett has an exceptionally quick release for a quarterback, which means the defensive line and linebackers must move off the ball quickly to get to him before he can set up. If the Irish pass rush is ineffective, it's going to be a long day for the folks in the secondary, who will have their hands full with Purdue's fine receiving corps. 
The Boilermakers also possess a strong defensive line, which shut down the Irish running game last year. While Purdue ~dmittedly is weaker against the pass, Notre Dame must establish the running game in order to exploit that weakness. If not, Steve Beuerlein could be wearing linebackers on his back every time he looks to pass. 
The warning signs are there for Faust and the Irish. They certainly know what to expect from Purdue -now it's just a matter ofstopping it. That is easier said than done, though. 
Ifthe Irish can't stop Purdue, 1985 could take on the same inconsis­tent character of Faust's previous four years. On the other hand, if Notre Dame beats Purdue tomorrow, it could be a sign that the con­sistency which has eluded Faust's teams in the past has finally arrived. 
Pick of the Week Consistency was one thing Notre Dame cross country coach Joe Piane's team had last year, and he'll be looking for that hallmark to continue when the Irish play host to the National Catholic Meet this afternoon at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The Irish are the defending champions, but in order to repeat they'll need to hold offa strong challenge from strong Eastern teams such as Boston College and Villanova as well as perennial rival Marquette. The action starts at 3 p.m. with the women's race, so go on out and give the Irish your support. 

L: 
By DE SfJOt1$ "A 
co: 
tum to safety 5 whatm 
"I enjo me," sa 
In foot 
Aside f 
the cm 
Starlin~ 
strange slot at 1 onega• 
"My so] wet," l tion an was ex feel for 
Lawre11 
before Miami. himseU 
"That's 
have tc 
Injurie: Lawrer higan alongv play lru loss of 
Franci~ 
to bacl 
perien4 

Photo counesy ol N«Kft D:a.me Spona lnlOmwion Depanmenr 
Irish quarterback Gary Forystek attempts to elude a to replace Forystek, sparking the Irish to 17 un­"Iwas4 Purdue defender in Notre Dame's 1977 win over the answered points and a 31-24 come-from-behind vic­burl h Boilers. Unfortunately for Forystek, be could not get tory in West Lafayette. Marty Burns details the petitiV4 away and suffered a broken clavicle and concussion Montana-led comeback at far lower right in Time 
after a crushing hit by Purdue linebacker Fred Ar­Capsule. rington. Youngjoe Montana was called offthe bench 
Trophy 
continuedfrom page 1 
reflected Krause. "Purdue went on to lose to all their Big Ten opponents and finish 2-7. But they still gave Coach Holcomb an extension on his contract. That's how im­ponant the victory over the Irish was." 
The notability of the Irish-Boilermaker contestcontinued throughout the years. In 1957, although the shillelagh was at stake, the players had even more on their minds than the trophy. Both teams were trying to bring some respectability back to their programs. Purdue had just seen its team complete a 3-4-2 season in 1956, while the Irish didn't have any luck that year either, finishing 2-8. Both schools were looking for some sense ofredemption as they faced each other at Ross-Ade Stadium in the season opener. 
"Our first game that season carried the to­tal weight of the last season because everyone was looking to see if we were going to pick ourselves up or repeat the tragedy of '56," explained 1957 Irish co­captain Ed Sullivan. "You build a winning season one game at a time, and the opener is certainly a pivotal point. It sets the tone for the team. And a victory over Purdue al­ways helps. 
"They were a great rival -mortal enemies at times. We knew Purdue was always a tough, physical team and that they were going to hit hard. The past two times they came up here to play they beat us, so we wanted to go down there and return the favor. We wanted the win badly." 
And a win was exactly what Sullivan and his teammates brought back to South Bend, along with the shillelagh. The Irish defense had the usually potent Purdue aerial attack hobbling on one leg. The Boilermakers didn't complete a single pass in the first 59 minutes ofplay. In addition, Big Ten standout and Purdue record­holder Mel Dillard gained only 51 yards on I 5 carries, the second lowest total of his career. 
The Purdue defense was just as stingy, hol­ding the Irish to just 12 points. But that was all Notre Dame needed to record a victory that afternoon. The win spurred the Irish to a 7-3 season and a ninth-place finish in the polls. 
Notre Dame has not always had such luck when it comes to Purdue games, though. In 
1967, Notre Dame coach Ara Parseghian was riding high with a l 0-game winning streak and a number-one ranking. Once again, the Boilers came in as the giant kil­ler. Ranked 1Oth in the country, Purdue had everything to gain and not much to lose. Boilermaker coach jack Mollenkopf had all-America back Leroy Keyes and highly­skilled quarterback Mike Phipps prepared to welcome the likes of Irish signal caller Terry Hanratty and fullback Rocky Bleier. In front of a capacity crowd at West Lafayette, Notre Dame was handed one of only two defeats that season, 28-21. 
Not that Irish fans should despair. Notre Dame has had more than its share of vic­tories in the series. Since 1968, the Irish lead the series 11-6, with such scoring mar­gins as 48-0, 35-14 and 52-6 showing up in the record books. But ask anyone knowledgeable about the series between these two schools and they'll tell you that when these teams meet you can throw out the book. 
"You never know what to expect when the two play," Krause said. "It seems that whoever is favored ends up losing anyway. It is one of the best rivalries we've got." 
Exactly 28 years from the day the shil­lelagh first was made a part ofhistory, these two teams will square off once again tomorrow. Whether it is a rainy Saturday or a clear, sunny day, whether a team's reputation is at stake or is being defended, one thing is clear. when the Irish and the Boilermakers clash, it is always something special. 
Read Football Notebook every Thursday 
For La~ 

Notre Dam 
TEAM STATISnCS  ND  OPP  
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS  656  548  
Total Plays  134  135  
Yards per Play  4.9  4.1  
Yards per Game  328.0  274.0  
PENALTIES-YARDS  9-96  9-63  
FUMBLES-LOST  3-2  3-2  
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS  34  32  
By Rushing  ~3  23  
By P8$Sing  21  7  
By Penalty  0  2  
THIRD DOWNS-CONV  27-9  28-9  
Percentage  33.0  32.0  
POSSESSION TIME  58:10  61:50  
Minutes per Game  29:05  30:55  

SCORING 
Carney Pinkett Stams Eason Brown 
ND OPP 
RUSHING 
Pinkett Stams Francisco Taylor Monahan Jefferson Brown Andrysiak Bauerlein GTD PA R-PA S FG TP 

2 0 3-4 0-0 0 4-6 15 2 1 o-o o-o o 0-0 6 2 1 o-o 0-0 0 0-0 6 2 1 o-o o-o o o-o 6 2 1 o-o 0-0 0 o-o 6 
2 4 3-4 0-0 0 4-6 39 2 3 3-3 0-0 0 3-4 30 
G NO YDS AVG TO LG 
2 47 205 4.4 1 35 2 11 39 3.5 1 8 2 5 17 3.4 0 10 1 2 11 5.5 0 7 2 2 7 3.5 0 7 1 2 7 3.5 0 6 2 1 7 7.0 0 7 1 1 5 5.0 0 5 2 11 -19 -1.7 0 13 
NOTRE DAME  2  82  279  3.4  2 35  
OPPONENTS  2  101  419  4.1  3 25  
PASSING  G NO  CO  PCT INT  YDS TD  
Bauerlein  2  so  26  .520  3  3n  1  
Andrysiak  1  2  0  .000  0  0  0  
ND  2  s2  26  .soo  3  an  1  
OPP  2  34  11  .324  2  129 0  

G NO YDS AVG TD LG 
Ward 2 7 101 14.4 0 20 Brown 2 6 120 20.0 0 49 Eason 2 3 36 12.0 1 17 Pinkett 2 3 35 11.6 0 22 Williams 2 2 34 17.0 0 19 Rehder 2 2 25 12.5 0 14 Stams 2 2 7 3.5 0 4 Cusack 2 1 19 19.0 0 19 
NOTRE DAME 2 26 3n 14.5 1 49 OPPONENTS 2 11 129 11.7 0 27 
Friday, September 27, 1985 




Lawrence thrives on competition as Irish safety 
C 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN petition even factored into his decision to up, but we had a lot ofseries' where it was three refuses to dwell on his past achievements, Sports Writer attend Notre Dame. plays and out. The interception was near the though, because there's still competition. end ofthe game." ompetition. "I wanted to go to a place that was away from 
"I've had a lot of good moments," Lawrence 
Some athletes thrive on it, while others home, but not so far that I couldn't go home ifI Similarly, Lawrence's return of 25 yards against says, "but I don't look back and remember 
tum to jello when faced with it. For Irish free wanted to," he says. "I wanted to get a degree Missouri last year was the season's longest inter­them. Those things don't matter. In sports, you
safety Steve Lawrence, though, competition is and still play top-rank college football. Notre ception return. His nine tackles in the Aloha have to prove yourselfevery time you go out on what makes him go. Dame has one of the toughest schedules, and I Bowl against SMU led the team, as well. the field. People don't remember what you did wanted to play against good competition, teams 
last week, but rather that you did well this "I enjoy competition. It brings out the best in like USC and Miami." This year Lawrence made a team-high 10 week." 
me," says Lawrence. tackles against Michigan and chipped in five 
While at Ypsilanti High School, Lawrence ex­more last week against Michigan State. He Lawrence's competitiveness translates to solid In football, competition is a daily fact of life. celled in four sports. Besides playing defensive 
on-field performances. Aside from the on-field competition, there is back and earning two letters in football, he the competition to maintain your place in the played guard in basketball (three letters), 
"Steve has improved tremendously. He runs ag­starting line-up. Lawrence, a junior, is no center field in baseball (one letter) and ran 
gresively to the football both on the run and the stranger to this fact. He earned a regular starting track (three lettersf. Once again, competition 
pass," says Irish defensive coordinator Andy slot at the beginning oflast season after starting transcended the sports themselves. 
Christoff. "He's an excellent competitor." one game his freshman year. "I had no preference for one or the other," says "You have to have a lot ofdiscipline," Lawrence 
--.

"My sophomore year, I was just getting my feet Lawrence. "I enjoyed them all. I liked the com­
says of playing in the secondary. "You have to ~ wet," Lawrence says. "I was learning the posi­petition." read the linemen. Ifthey showpass, you have to j tion and I didn't know what to expect or what drop into pass coverage. If they show run, you J was expected of me. This year, I have a better When he first came to Notre Dame, Lawrence have to be able to support. Free safety isn't as I 
j
feel for it." had hoped to play baseball for the Irish during 
free as people think. the spring. Lawrence started the first six games of last year "Our defense will be pretty good this year ifwe before sustaining a sprained shoulder against "I enjoy baseball," he says. "I decided, though, 
stay healthy. Coach Christoff has a good Miami. When he returned to action, he found to concentrate on football and school. I could 
scheme. We can only get better and better." himselfsplitting time with Hiawatha Francisco. still play, but. 
The competitive Lawrence says he has no long­"That's part of the game," says Lawrence. "You Since coming to Notre Dame, Lawrence has had 
term goals. have to fight to keep your spot." many highlights on the football field. In his first start in 1983, which came against Colorado, he 
"I don't like to look too far ahead," he states. "I Injuries again have beset the 6-0, 190-pound returned an interception 43 yards, the longest 
live from day to day, and live each day as if it Lawrence. He pulled a groin muscle in the Mic­return ofthe year for the Irish. were the last." higan game, but extenuating circumstances, along with his competitive nature, drove him to "I was happy to play against Colorado," he The ot.crftr/Hanna Hacker 
Presumably this carries over to the next com­play last week against Michigan State. With the recalls. "I was nervous until I started mixing it Steve Lawrence petition. loss of tailback Alonzo jefferson for the season, 
francisco had just been moved to the position Once under the Golden Dome, the normally Being a better basketball player than football 
to back up Allen Pinkett, leaving a lack of ex­reserved Brown did not make much noise or player would be difficult because Brown was
Brown
perienced back-up at free safety. attract much attention off the football field. tabbed at the end of last season as a starting
continuedfrom page I Then came Bookstore Basketball XIV. receiver on The Sporting News\ All-Freshman "I was only about 85 percent for Michigan State, "He played everywhere on a team that didn't team. This season he already has had thebig day bur I had to play," Lawrence says. "It's a com­win many football games," says Notre Dame Large crowds turned out to see Brown, against the Spartans, as well as two outstanding petitive thing."· head coach Gerry Faust, "and he was an out­teammate Joel Williams and former teammate runs in the opener against Michigan. 
standing player on film. We felt he was one of Joe Howard play together on their Bookstore 
For Lawrence, a native ofYpsilanti, Mich., com-the top recruits. He's a guy that didn't get much team, Dangling Manhood. The team, which "I was glad (The Sporting News) felt that way," 
~ame statistics 
OPP .. DEFENSE TMTL·YDS PBU FA BK 
548 Furjanic 24 1-1 1 0 0 135: Dorsey 20 2-10 0 0 0 4.1 Kovaleski 20 0-0 0 0 0 274.0 larkin 16 1-2 1 0 0 9-63 Lawrence 15 0-0 0 0 0 3-2 Ballage 12 0-0 0 0 0 32 Kleine 10 2-10 0 0 0 23 Figaro 10 0-0 0 0 0 7 Banks 8 0-0 0 0 0 2 Wilson 7 0-0 2 1 0 28-9 G. Dingens 6 0-0 0 0 0 32.0 Haywood 4 1-3 1 0 0 61:50 Spence 3 0-0 1 0 0 30:55 DiBernardo 2 0-0 0 0 0 M. Dingens 2 0-0 1 1 0 :a TP Kiernan 2 0-0 0 0 0 Weissenhofer 2 0-0 0 0 0 
1-6 15 
Wells 2 0-0 0 0 1 1-0 6 Gordon 1 0-0. 0 0 0 1-0 6 Kunz 1 0-0 0 0 0 
1-0 6 ------------------­
NOTRE DAME 167 7-26 7 2
1-0 6 
·-6 39 1-4 30 
PUNTING G NO YDS AVG LG TDLG ------------------­
Sorensen 2 9 379 42.1 52 
1 35 ------------------­
NOTRE DAME 12 9 379 42.1 521 8 OPPONENTS 12 12 505 42.1 59
0 10 0 7 0 7 0 6 
PUNT RET NO YDS AVG TO LG 
0 7 
0 5 ------------------­
Wilson 4 44 11.1 0 12
0 13 Cusack 2 5 2.5 0 3 
2 35 ------------------­
NOTRE DAME 6 49 8.2 0 12 OPPONENTS 5 14 2.8 0 15 OS TD 
3 25 
>77 1 0 0 
KICKOFF RET NO YDS AVG TO LG 
>77 1 
Brown 4 145 36.3 1 93 
29 0 
Jefferson 1 5 5.0 0 5 Rehder 1 0 0.0 0 0 ro LG ------------------­
NOTRE DAME 6 150 25.0 193 0 20 OPPONENTS 3 33 11.0 0 21 0 49 1 17 0 22 0 19 INTRET NO YDS AVG TO LG 
14
0 ------------------­
0 4 Ball age 0 0.0 0 0 0 
19 Wilson 0 0.0 0 0 
1 49 NOTRE DAME 2 0 0.0 0 0 0 27 OPPONENTS 3 38 12.6 0 20 
press because he was from an inner-city school. Tim Brown was an unknown to the press but not to football coaches." 
Those football coaches that recruited Brown especially hard were from Oklahoma, Notre Dame, Iowa, Nebraska and hometown power­house Southern Methodist. 
"Notre Dame offered me the education," says Brown, explaining his college selection. "The other schools weren't taking education seriously. Also, the football tradition is here. I would have liked to stay home, but then again it was good for me to get away." 
featured a wide, wide, open offense, eventually reached the semifinals of the annual campus tournament. 
"Nothing thrills me more than ~o dunk a basket­ball," says Brown. "In high school, I liked bas­ketball more than football. I got some offers to play junior college basketball, and there was mention ofmy walking on here when I came up to visit. 
"I thought about it, but with football it would be too much," he continues. "I really like basket­ball, but I don't think I could ever be a better basketball player than a football player." 
says Brown. "But I don't like for people to label me because then if I don't live up to their ex­peciQtions, they're disappointed. I'd rather they just said that I was a solid football player." 
Tim Brown may be more than just a solid foot­ball player. Although his reticence off the field prevents him from admitting any impending greatness, he could very well end up alongside other great Notre Dame receivers in the memories of Irish fans. 
And that graceful image in people's minds will be much better to Tim Brown than the one people received from his first collegiate game. 


Montana comes off bench to spur Irish 
Starting Irish quarterback Rusty Usch, who had thrown for both of Notre Dame's first·halftouchdowns, sat down for the second time in Time Capsule the contest to allow for Montana's entrance. In the first half, Notre 
by Marty Burns Dame head coach Dan Devine substituted senior signal caller Gary Forystek for Usch. This piece ofstrategy was short-lived, though, as Forystek suffered a broken clavicle and a concussion on a crushing hit by Purdue linebacker Fred Arrington. 
I 
t was the third game of a frustrating 1977 season, and, following a 20-13 upset loss at the hands of Mississippi the previous Saturday, Though Devine's strategy did not succeed at first, he tried again late Fighting Irish affilirs were in an awful state for the second con-in the third quarter with the Irish trailing by I 0 and having posses­secutive week. Then came Montana. sion at their own 15-yard line. Montana, who was deemed the 
"Cardiac Kid" for coming off the bench two weeks in a row as a Notre Dame golden boy joe Montana, the 6-3, 191-pounder from freshman to rescue his struggling team against Air Force and North Monongahela, Pa., came off the bench with just under two minutes Carolina, entered the game and immediately sparked the team, remaining in the third quarter and his 1-1 Irish team down 24-14. driving it 80 yards for a 24-yard Dave Reeve field goal. The Boiler­Before the day was over, he would post 17 unanswered points on the maker margin now had been cut to 24-1 7. board to lead the Irish to a 31-24 victory over Purdue in front of 68,966 stunned fans in West Lafayette, Ind. After an outstanding interception by Bradley gave Notre Dame the 
ball at the Purdue 32-yard line, Montana went back to work. The Although most of the passing in the fourth quarter came from the gifted field general, who had missed much of the previous two arm of Montana, the big sky over Ross-Ade Stadium had been bom­seasons with nagging injuries, moved the Irish to paydirt by hitting barded all afternoon with the aerials of the Boiler's awesome fresh­sure-handed tight end Ken MacAfee from 13 yards out for the tying man, Mark Herrmann. The intensely recruited kid from Indiana, who touchdown. had considered enrolling at Notre Dame before finally agreeing to attend Purdue, connected on 24 ofhis 51 attempts for 315 yards. Unfortunately for Purdue fans, their team only could hang on to the 
ball for six minutes. It then made the mistake ofpunting the ball to Herrmann was a monster to the Irish in the first halfas he racked up the Notre Dame 42-yard line with four minutes left OJl the clock. much ofhis yardage total and threw for two touchdowns to give the Boilermakers a 24-14 halftime lead. Montana ( 9-of-14) hooked up with split end Kris Haines for 26 yards 
on the first play, and then hit MacAfee for 15 more before a pair of 
The Notre Dame defense, led by all-America defensive end Ross Browner and all-America safety Luther Bradley, eventually began to put pressure on the inexperienced Herrmann, however, and the Purdue attack (404 total yards)was kept out ofscoring range for the· entire second half. 
nice runs put the Irish into the end zone for the 31-24 conquest. 
Ofcourse, there would be more "Miracles of Montana" in games to come, especially in this particular season as the Irish went on to an 11-1 finish and the national championship. 

Irish Extra-page 4 Friduy, September 27, 1985 




vs.
ame 

ByERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 

W 
hen Notre Dame opened the 1984 
season against Purdue in the Hoosier 
Dome, Jim Everett was practically unknown. 
But within a span of three hours, Everett had 
burst upon the college football scene, com­
pleting 20-of-28 passes to lead the Boiler­
makers to a 23-21 upset over the Irish. 

The Irish will try to avenge that loss tomorrow as they travel to West Lafayette, Ind., to face Purdue. And this time around, they know whom to regard as the main threat. Everett has thrown for 738 yards and seven touchdowns in his first two games. But although Everett is well known to Notre Dame, howwell the Irish prepare for him will spell the outcome ofthe game in the end. 
The Boilermakers enter the game with a 1·1 record, losing to Pittsburgh in their opener, 31·30, then whipping Ball State 37-18 last week. And even though Purdue had a three· week break before facing the Cardinals, Irish head coach Gerry Faust points out that some ofthat time might have been spent looking at the Irish. 
"Purdue had three full weeks to prepare for Ball State," said Faust, "and I think Leon even admitted they already had spent some time working on Notre Dame. So we're going to have our work cut out for us. It'll be tough." 
It certainly will be tough, but the Irish possess the potential to derail the potent Boilermaker passing attack. If Notre Dame plays with the intensity it did last week against Michigan State, it very well could leave Ross-Ade Stadium with a victory. 
Purdue's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense: 
When talking about the Purdue offense, one speaks essentially of Everett. The 6-5, 212­pound senior Has completed 68 percent ofhis passes ( 58-of-85) for 738 of Purdue's 970 to­tal yards this season. Everett has thrown just two interceptions, and Purdue head coach Leon Burtnett makes no bones about how the Boilermakers will attack the Irish defense. 
"We will have to throw the football a lot to be successful," said Burtnett. "You just don't run the football up and down the field against Notre Dame." 
Everett's main targets are fullback Ray Wallace ( 12 catches for 128 yards), tight end Marty Scott ( 12 for 116) and wide receiver Steve Griffin ( 10 for 1 50). 
But although the Boilermakers are feared mainly for their passing attack, they do have two very talented and underrated running backs on their roster. 
The 6-0, 221-pound Wallace has rushed ·for 115 yards on 24 carries, while 6-0, 206-pound tailback Rodney Carter has gotten the call 2 3 times, gaining 55 yards. 
The offensive line, which consists of Mark 
Drenth, Vince Panfil, Rick Skibinski, Bret Brunell and Mike 
nose guard slot. The Irish will try to put the same pressure on Everett that they had on Spartan quarterback Bobby McAlister last week, forcing 13 incompletions in 17 at­tempts. 
The linebacking corps again will consist of Larkin and Robert Banks on the outside, with Tony Furjanic and Mike Kovaleski on the inside. They will try to stop the Boilermaker rushing attack, while also keeping an eye on Everett's short passing game. 
The Irish secondary will have its hands full with Everett, but from the first two games it appears Notre Dame has the ability to meet him head on. The 
Connors, averages Irish are ranked 
6-3 and 263 pounds. second in the nation It has the bulk and in pass defense, experience to com­giving up only 64.5 pete with Notre yards per game in Dame up front as the air, and while four of the five are Everett is the first seniors, meaningthe "pure" passer Notre Irish will have to get Dame has faced, it another spirited ef­appears the passing fort from their battle will be a good defensive line s0 one. that Everett does not get too much "We'll find out how time in the pocket. good we really are in 
the secondary this "I really look for a week," said Faust. wide-open football "They're an out­game this weekend standing offensive when you consider football team. I'm Purdue's explosive­really impressed ness," said Faust. with the way they "They'll throw the move the ball up and ball on any down, down the field. from any place on the field and they'll "We'll have to cross utilize all of their things up against 

receivers. And Wallace and Carter are good enough runners to earn your defense's respect." 
Notre Dame should be able to start the same players on defense that it did against the Spar· tans. Outside linebacker Mike Larkin sprained an ankle in that game, while free safety Steve Lawrence aggravated a hip flexor. But both are expected to play in tomorrow's game after improvement in their conditions. 
Thedefensive line will have Greg Dingens and Wally Kleine at the tackles, while Eric Dorsey, who had 12 tackles and two sacks last week, will try to ignite the Irish defenders from his 
Everett defensively. 

I don't think we can afford to play the same type ofcoverage down after down." 
Notre Dame's offense vs. Purdue's defense: 
The Notre Dame offense also will enter the game with the same look. Junior quarterback Steve Beuerlein has completed 52 percent of his passes for 3 77 yards, hitting for one touch­down while throwing three interceptions. 
"I think (Beuerlein) has given us good leader· ship over the first two weeks," said Faust. "I think he's thrown the ball quite well except for a couple times. I think his performance has been good and it will get better." 
Junior split end Alvin Miller should be at full strength this week, joining Reggie Ward, Tim Brown, Tony Eason and Pat Cusack as Beuer­lein's targets. The Irish will try to balance their offensive attack against the Boilermakers be­cause Beuerlein will be facing an experienced secondary. 
As far as the Irish offensive line goes, improve­ment was evident in the Michigan State game. Hopefully for Notre Dame, this improvement will continue Saturday against the 4-3 defense ofPurdue. 
"I thought our offensive line did well against Michigan State," said Faust. "I really was impressed with our pass blocking. Our run blocking has to improve, but it will get better because we'll keep working on it." 
The Purdue defense, however, most certainly will challenge the talented Irish offense. The Boilermakers have given up only 294.5 total yards per game, 141 passing and 153.5 on the ground. 
The defense returns eight starters from last year. The front four is headed by senior Brad Horner, who has recorded six tackles, four of them going for losses. 
The Purdue secondary is filled with veterans, with junior free safety Rod Woodson recognized as the hard-hitting leader. The defensive backs will have their hands full trying to keep up with the Irish speedsters. 
"The secondary is an experienced secon­dary," said Faust. "They've got a lot of speed back there. I think their defense is excellent and is going to cause a lot of problems for us, but we're just going to have to be ready to button our chin straps. 
"I think the Michigan State game proved to our players what can be accomplished with consistent intensity and aggressiveness. We played hard and we played with emotion · and when you do that you can overcome some er­rors along the way." 
There is no reason for Notre Dame not to ap­proach tomorrow's game in the same way. Stopping Everett will be the key for the Irish defense, and if Notre Dame is able to put together a consistent offensive effort as well, it could be a long afternoon for the Boiler­makers. 

PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports editor and some well­

game. The person must pick the Jeff Blumb Larry Burke Kelly Portolese Chuck Freeby Phil Wolf Eddie White Cathy Logadon winner and give the underdog Sports Editor Asst. Sports Editor SMC Sports Editor Sports Writer Asst. Sports Editor Guest Celebrity Random Student points. Home team is in CAPS. 1 5-12·1 12·1 5-1 12·15-1 11-16-1 ~18·1 14·13-1 ~18-1 
.556 .444 .444 .407 .333 .519 .333 
(last week: 8-6-0) (last week: 5-9-0) (last week: 4·10-0) (last week: 5-9-0) (last week: 6-8·0) (last week: 8-6-0) (last week: 3-11·0) 
Miami (Aa.)over BOSTON COLLEGE by 3.5 Hurricanes Eagles Eagles Eagles Hurricanes Eagles Hurricanes VIRGINIA over Navy by 13.5 Midshipmen Midshipmen Cavaliers Midshipmen Midshipmen Cavaliers MidshipmenCLEMSON over Georgia Tech by 2.5 Tigers Tigers Jackets Tigers Tigers Tigers TigersPenn State over RUTGERS by 5 Lions Lions Lions Lions Lions Knights Lions MICHIGAN over Maryland by 2.5 Terrapins Terrapins Terrapins Terrapins Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines WEST VIRGINIA over Pitt by 2.5 Panthers Mountaineers Panthers Panthers Mountaineers Mountaineers Panthers GEORGIA over South Carolina by 7. 5 Gamecocks Bulldogs Bulldogs Gamecocks Gamecocks Bu~ldogs Gamecocks Auburn over TENNESSEE by 6 Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Volunteers Tigers TigersOHIO ST. over Washington St. by 13 Cougars Cougars Buckeyes Buckeyes Cougars Buckeyes Buckeyes
MISSOURI over Indiana by 11 Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Ucla over WASHINGTON by 1 Huskies Huskies Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins Oklahoma over MINNESOTA by 15.5 Gophers Gophers Sooners Sooners Gophers Sooners GophersSouthern Cal over ARIZONA ST. by 1.5 Trojans Trojans T~ojans Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans 
Notre Dame over PURDUE by 3. 5 Irish Irish Irish Boilermakers Irish Irish Irish 







