Psych Services -pages 8,9 

VOLXIX,NO. 104 the independent student nnvspapcr serving notre Jame and saint mary's 1HURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1985 

Novelist Irving previews new novel for capacity crowd 
ByJOHN WALTERS that the migrants never obeyed the News Staff posted "cider house rules" because they did not know how to read. He 
The father of"Garp" introduced a brought this to the attention of the group of orphans to a standing­orchard owner who responded, room-only crowd at the library "That's no excuse for not following auditorium last night. the rules." 
John Irving, the internationally­"The Cider House Rules" itself has known author whose credits in­nothing to do with apples orchards clude "The World According To or migrant workers, however; in­Garp" and "Hotel New Hampshire", stead, it is a historical text concern­was the featured speaker for the ing orphanages from the period fourth night of the Sophomore 1870-1950. literary Festival. Irving's inspiration came from 
Irving, along with George Hunt, reading the texts of his grandfather, editor-in-chiefofAmerica magazine, an obstetrician during this time. He attracted this year's festival's largest found these medical texts of a small­audience by far. His presentation town doctor anecdotal enough to in­consisted primarily of reading from corporate into a story. the first chapter of his forthcoming 
The story is set in the once proud

novel, "The Cider House Rules." logging-camp community of St. The , novel, slated for a june Cloud's, Maine. "First came the log­release, concerns the relationship ging mill, then the vagrants, then the between an obstetrician/orphanage thugs, and at last there was a director, Dr. Wilbur Larch, and the church," read Irving. orphan for whom he is unable to find 
Three times Homer is given to a home, Homer Wells. It is a story foster f.unilies, with each familyabout their love and what eventually more bizarre than the last. At hisdrives them apart. 

third home, the abode of ProfessorIrving, a native ofNew Hampshire and Mum Draper, Homer narrowlycurrently residing on Long Island, escapes sexual molestation fromopened with an explanation of his Mum's grandson by crying out.

novel's title. "It refers to the cider When Mum runs to the bedroom tohouses of a New England apple or­investigate, the boy reverses thechard," he said. "The migrant story, explaining to his grand­workers would live in the houses, mother, "He tried to bugger me, so Iand the orchard owner would type him have it." 
up set rules for the migrants to obey." George Hunt, a Jesuit who has He cited a few of the rules as written major critical analyses on 
"Please don't drink," "Please don't the works ofJohn Updike and John sit on the roof," and "Please don't Cheever, adressed the audience drink while sitting on the roof." prior to Irving. He spoke ofUpdike's 
Irving was an apple orchard works and discussed literary tech­foreman in his youth, and noticed niques. 

Novelist john Irving, author of "The World Ac­cording to Garp," read the first chapter of his up-
N.Y. politician Lehrman speaks on faith, family, U.S. Constitution 
By KAREN moMPSON America" have begun a major push "attentive to the just claims of the and HARDY LEWIS in support of the government cost­least among us." He advocated a low News Staff cutting recommendations of the simple tax rate and favorably Grace Commission, which favors a compared American free enterprise 
Lewis Lehrman, mentioned as a . balanced budget amendment to the to the Social-Democratic welfare possible dark-horse candidate for Constitution, and will continue its states ofWestern Europe. the 1988 Republican presidential efforts in support of aid to Central On the American family, Lehrman nomination and narrowly defeated America. claimed that recent legislation haS by Mario Cuomo in the 19.82 New In his speech, Lehrman made ref­shifted the burden of taxes to the 
York gubernatorial race, spoke last erence to the bishops' letter middle-income family with two to night on "Faith, Family, and the denouncing poverty. He agreed four children. This factor, he said,'" is American Constitution." with their conclusion, but ex­reducing the American family." pressed dissent with their means of Lehrman, who recently helped Lehrman, chairm~ of "Citizens achieving it. launch a petition effort in support of For America," stated that America is "While I agree with the bishops' a simplified tax code, also added 
the "preeminent standard-bearer of motives, the means to that goal lie that, "Everything I am, and every­the code ofJudeo-Christian civiliza­deep in the democratic way of life -thing I could ever be rises up from tion." free economy," he said. the simple fact that I am an Ameri­
The members of "Citizens For Lehrman urged his audience to be can." 


Bishop McManus presents two opinions of U.S. economy 
ByMARGARETC~ON The bishops' stance defending ing government intervention, News Staff Church involvement in econom­saying, "Government should ics, according to McManus, is that create jobs so that people are not Bishop William McManus of the "economics is subject to a higher sitting idle, rotting at home. (What moral law. Unemployment is a is needed) is less unemployment
Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese 
presented the bishops' views on hideous evil and grinds a person and more jobs." the American economy as well as down. Decisions of economics McManus also pointed out the those ofthe "other side" during his must be based on what they do to opposition's opinion that creating talk last night in Howard Hall's and for people, not to what they do jobs would cause taxes to rise, job 

chapel. to and for stock and corporate opportunities in the private sector The bishop's talk was made pos­structures." to diminish, and more unemploy­sible by Howard's religious com­The bishops' stance defending ment to result. mission leader, Mark Bomber, with Church involvement in econom­
"From their (the government's)the assistance of the hall's rector, ics, according to McManus, is that 

Father Eugene Gorski. "economics is subject to a higher point of view the best thing to do would be to say, 'Face it, it's an im­
moral law. Unemployment is a 
Defending the bishops' involve­moral system,"' McManus said.
hideous evil and grinds a person
ment in economics, McManus said, "The bishops repudiate the idea

down. Decisions of economics "Bishops should make a stand on that it would be better to leave
must be based on what they do to 

ecomonics. Jesus Christ addressed these (poor) people as they are
and for people, not to what they do 

himselfto economics. For a second than to let the government inter­
to and for stock and corporate

reason, bishops seek to address the vene."
structures."

evil ofwidespread wealth distribu­
The opposing view, which artic­

tion." 
ulates the bishops' criticism of the After the speech, McManus was McManus added that preaching current administration's role in questioned on his recently· on economics "is not an innova­American economics, is that "the announced resignation. Citing age 
tion. It's very much in the Biblical best economics is unrestrained as the primary factor, McManus tradition of the Church." He also economics -Reagan's supply-side replied, "It's a tradition for bishops expressed a desire "for the begin­economics and the trickle-down in the Chicago area to resign soon 
nings ofa pastoral council with lay theory. In other words, let it be." after they reach the age of 70. This men and women pooling their McManus summarized the bis­gives the younger ones a chance to ideas." hops' opposite opi,nion concern-move up." 





The Observer 

Thunday, February 28, 1985 -page 2 



Sophomore class officers 
In Brief 

deserve recognition, thanks 
The Saint Mary's Programming Board met 


last night and announced that applications for student government commissioners are available today through Thursday, March 7, in the Haggar College Center. The student body officers will visit each dorm on the evening ofTuesday, March 5, to explain these commis­sioner positions. They will be in the lobby ofdorms at the following times: LeMans, 6-6:30; Holy Cross, 6:30-7; Regina 7-7:30; McCand­less, 7:30-8:00. The Chameleon Club will meet this Friday from 5 until 7:30 in Haggar. Entertainment will be provided. The movie "Flash" will be corning to Carroll Hall on March 5. Show times are 7 and 9:30 p.m. This Saturday there will be a college open house at Angela Athletic Facility from 12:30 until 2:30p.m. in honor ofSopho­more Parents' Weekend. -The Obseroer 
Macho nerds for Reagan and Girl Geeks for the Gipper claim to represent the true spirit ofReaganisrn and have been stealing the show at the University of Wisconsin's College Republicans' pro-Reagan rallies. The Nerds' platform includes na­tional standards for lawn care and a chain of retail stores called "Wars R Us" to reduce the deficit. 
-The Obseroer 

Dartnlouth's tuition and room and board fees are jumping to U4,860 next year, making it more expensive than Ivy League counterparts Brown, Columbia, Cornell and Pennsylvania. The 8.9 percent increase follows a 9.5 percent hike in 1983 and an 
8.5 percent increase announced last year. Tuition was Sl3,537last year. Among the reasons for the increase that were cited by the school were more financial support for athletic programs and im­provements In the college's computer capabilities. -AP 
Of Interest 

Developments in labor will be the topic of a workshop, sponsored by the Helen Kellogg Institute, to take place this evening and contninue through March 2. The workshop, titled, "Labor in Contemporary Latin America" will bring together some 20 invited scholars from this country and abroad. It will consider developments primarily In Argentina, Brazil, and Chile but also will aim to incorporate Insights from recent research on Europe and the United States. A Roundtable session, designed to present some ofthe principal workshop themes and issues to a broader audience, is scheduled for 7 this evening in Room 131 Decio. A full agenda can be obtained by contacting the Helen Kellogg Institute at 239-6580. ­
The Obseroer 

A Senior Cocktail Party will be held in the Monogram Room of the ACC tonight from 9 until 1 a.m. The cost is $3 at the door with proceeds going to MS. Drinks will be free from 9 
··to 11 and a raftle will be held for a Senior Formal Bid and a trip to Daytona Beach for spring break. A 21 ID is required. -The Obseroer 
A"jumpathon"to raise moneyrortheArner­lcan Heart Association is planned for March I6 from I until 3 p.m. at Stepan Center at Notre Dame. Participating will be third-through eighth-grade Catholic students from St. John the Baptist, St. Joseph, Holy Family and Our Lady of Hungary schools In South Bend; St. Bavo, St. Monica and St.Joseph schools in Mishawaka and St.John the Baptist school in Goshen. -The Obseroer 
Applications for Saint Mary'sstudent govern­ment commissioners positions are being accepted beginning today until Thursday, March 7. Applications may be dropped offanytime at the front desk in Haggar College Center. -The Obseroer 
Weather 
' ~· 

Mosdy sunnyand mild today. High :(5: in the middle to upper 40s. Southwest wind around 10 mph. Tonight, fair and not quite as cold. Low In the lower 30s. Tomorrow, mostly sunny and warmer. High In the lower 50s. -AP 
The ,Observer 
The Obaenu (USPS ~99 2·4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Obeerver Is publtsh"d by the stud.,ntsof the l.lnlv.,rstty of Notr" Dam" and Saint Mary's Coile!!". Subscriptions may be: purcb2l!C:d for 130 per y"ar ( 120 per ..,. m"st.,r) by writing The ~r, P.O. Box Q. Notu Dam.,, Indiana 4M~6. 
The Obeerver Is a m"mbc:r of The AMoclakd Prns. All rq>roduction rights ar" userv.,d. 
Today"s issue was produced by: 

Design Editor .............................. Ann" long Design Assistant ........... Mark McLaughlin Layout Staff. Scott Jkarby. Ruth lknn"tt Typeset~ ..............jennifer Btgott. Tracy News Editor......................... K"tth Harrison CopyEditor........................ Mary Heilmann Sports Copy Editor....................... Phtt Wolf Viewpoint Copy Editor.......... Dav" Grote VIewpoint Layout.............. Caroltne Belin Featurr!S Copy Editor .. Margaret McCabe: Featurr!S Layout............................ Tom Hall ND Day Editor ........................ Alice Groner SMC Day Editor............... Toni Rutherford Ad Design .. Susan O'Hara, Kathy Krenzer Pbotograpber .................. )ohannes Hacker 
This week the Sophomore literary Festival commit­tee is proving once again that sophomores can organize a thoroughly successful event. It seems a fitting time tt· recognize a group ofsophomores who have organized a thoroughly successful year: this year's officers of the class of '87. 
In the garbled world of Notre Dame student govern­ment, where the road to office is paved with good inten­tions, this group ofsophomores has proved they can do more than win an election. They have planned and or­ganized SO events to date, almost of which have been well-attended and, rumor has it, a lot offun. 
Ask almost any sophomore what he or she thinks of this year's class officers and he or she will tell you "They're great." Few other branches ofstudent govern­ment can claim this kind ofenthusiasm. 
Jim Domagalski, Ann Jennings, Mark Foley and Dave Miklos have organized what is possibly the most suc­cessful branch of student government this year. They have a force of IOS sop­homores working under 
them on various commit­great events and don't tell tees, and claim nearly per­anyone about them," said fect attendance at the Domagalski, "it's like biweekly meetings of their winking at a girl in the dark. Sophomore AdviSory Coun­It doesn't do any good." 
cil. To improve communica­"We tried to see how we tion, sophomore class offi­
could get the most effi­cers have covered the ciency from the most campus with posters, relied people," says Domagalski, on dorm reps to spread the 
sophomore class president. news of important events, Jennings, the vice presi­sent out a newsletter (The dent, and Domagalski say Sophomore Scoop) and they owe a great deal oftheir even issued inivitations to success to their staff. "The every sophomore for major dorm reps are great," says events. 
Jennings. 
These four officers may owe a great deal to their staff, but the success ofthe staffowes at least as much to the people who organized it. Jennings and Domagalski say they built the five-committee structure under which they now operate from scratch. "We interviewed IOS people for sophomore class commissioners, and we gave all of them a job," said Domagalski. 
Because most sophomores are not yet 21, class events must be nonalcoholic. It requires a bit more creativity to plan such events, but the sophomore class has proved equal to this challenge. More than 850 stu­dents attended last month's Super Bowl suitcase party, at which two sophomores were awarded trips to the game. The sophomores also sponsored an overnight trip to Chicago which involved more than 1SO students and a Christmas party featuring a horse-drawn sleigh ride. 
This class has also managed to add a new twist to standard events. For example, they hired a belly dancer to perform at one of their study breaks. Jennings and 
TONIGHT!! 
Sophomore Literary Festival 
presents 
HOWARD NEMEROU 
8:00p.m. 
This Weekend ... 
FWDAY: Joanna Glass 
8:00p.m. SATURDAY: Mary Gordon ·>, 8:00p.m. 
all readings in the Library Auditorium 
Student Production of"Canadian Gothic" by Joan:J..
a Glass...3:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom 
------------------=---,-)ID'~.~,,_,_,, .... . 

Amy Stephan 
Project Manager 
Domagalski say the average attendance at class events is 200 to 250 students. 
But the success of this group is not limited to a few great parties. They've displayed creativity In the area of service as well. Nearly every sophomore who has spent time in the infirmary has received a flower, a card and a phone call courtesy of the sophomore class. This weekend, the sophomores are sponsoring a CPR cer­tification program. 
Perhaps the most important element in the success of 
this administration has been 
communication. "Ifyou plan 
How much does it cost to 
sponsor so many events, a 
majority of which are free? 

The sophomore class has received $1,700 per semester from student fees. Compare this to the $122,000 budget under which the Student Activities Board func­tions and the accomplishments of this class become even more impressive. 
This year's officers of the class of '87 prove true the statement that we've heard so many times and never quite believed -student government can make a differ­ence. The creativity, enthusiasm and hard work of the sophomore class government has helped unify the class and provided a lot offun for a lot ofpeople. 
Candidates for next year's class offices would do well to keep this In mind as they open their campaigns. It's not the system, nor the almighty Notre Dame Adminis­tration that makes student government what it is. It's the people. 
Just ask any sophomore. 


--~--~--~­
--~~-------------------------------------------------~ 

engineering students along with fac­ulty is also being planned. 
Both Szewczyk and Brach feel that

••••••••••••••••••••••• • this lab will give students the oppor­
• • tunity to work with a modem pro­• • gram of study and will open up a
• : TONIGHT! : • variety of new interests within the
• • mechanical and electrical engineer­
• • SOt c:ocktaUs 8-11 p.m.· • • 
ing departments.

• • $1.00 Imports every Wednesday • 
• Open at 8:00p.m. 259-7233 •
• 
Daylana far Sprinrj Break 
YOU DRIVE (TO THE PARTY) WE DRIVE (THE PARTY STARTS HERE) 
tt_ 94-5per room ~ 184-5perroom ~ 104-4per room ;p 194-4per room 
SiiJn-ups and infarmatianal meetin'd --TODAY! 
Thursday, 7pm, LaFartune Little Theatre -ar­stap bythe Seniar Class Dffic:e, 
1.5 LaFartune, M-F, &-!lpm 
Boston U. officials fight can1pus n1easles 
Associated Press school's 28,000 students are vul­
nerable, either because they 
BOSTON -Boston University were not inoculated as officials, battling a campus youngsters or because they were measles epidemic that has vaccinated before a longer las­stricken 53 people, urged stu­ting dose was developed in 1968. dents yesterday to avoid crowded elevators, planes and "There was a rumor going for a even intimate dinner parties. while that we were going to call 
in the National Guard to sur­The school has called off all round one dorm," said Keller.
plays, art exhibits and large "We've been busy runninglectures, and is warning students around, pasting up postersto stay away from crowded dor­saying, "There will be nomitory rooms and dining halls. 

quarantine. There will be no Na­Classes were not affected be­tional Guard."' 
cause ofmid-term examinations. 

Fans have been barred from all Keller said doctors from the 
BU sporting events. And school state and city departments of 
and government health officials health, as well as an epidemic 
have said they are concerned stu­specialist from the U.S. Centers 
dents will spread the disease for Disease Control in Atlanta, are 
from coast-to-coast when the helping the school operate vac­
week-long vacation begins cination centers. 
Friday. 

They have asked students to Worried parents flooded the 
travel by car ifpossible. Students sprawling urban school with 
whose admission forms do not in­phone calls, and hundreds ofstu­
dicate they have been inoculated dents crowded three new clinics 
will not be allowed to return to offering free inoculations. By yes­
school without written proof of terday afternoon, about 2,500 
immunization, university spokes­students had received shots to 
manjohn Keller said. prevent measles, a virus that 
Medical authorities have esti­causes an itchy rash and flu-like 
mated that about 5,000 of the symptoms. 
• 
Vegetarian & Meat Di•hes SHAIVERMA-MUGEDERA-BABA GHENOUJ lfOMMUS-FELAFEL TEBBOl!Ll SALAD 

• 
LEBANESE STYLE



SOUTH BEND 
GYROS
• 
Pita Stuffed Sandwiches 

• 
Delightful Pastrie• • Turkish Coffee 


Tues -Sat 5:30PM-9:30PM COMPLETE CATERING FOR 

288-5639 
PARTIES & BANQUETS 838 Portage Ave 
Saint Mary's sophomores prepare for Parents' Weekend festivities 
ByANN KALTENBACH provided by Danny and the Dead­Aerobics will also be offered and the StaffReporter beats, who play a variety ofmusic." swimming pool will be open." The costofthe weekend is S 70 for New to the Sophomore Parents 
More than 500 parents are ex­two parents and one daughter. Weekend schedule of events this pected to converge on the Saint A variety of other activities also year is a student art display entitled Mary's campus this weekend as the are slated with registration and "A Taste ofthe Arts." Erny said, "This College's class of 1987 hosts Sopho­ticket distribution extending from 2 gives parents an alternative for those more Parents' Weekend, said SPW p.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday in the who don't enjoy sports." Chairwoman Maureen Emy. LeMans lobby. 
She added, "The art show will in­

Late registration and ticket distri­
The highlight of the weekend is clude the work of sophomore art
bution will be held from 9 a.m. to
the dinner dance beginningat 6 p.m. students and will be a walk-through
noon in the LeMans lobby on Satur­
Saturday at the Century Center. type event."
day.

"This is the only event of the The display will be open from I 0 
Friday evening at 8 p.m. selected
weekend where we will have the op­a.m. to noon in the Haggar College 
members of the sophomore class
portunity to be together with both Center Parlor. The choir, in con­
have produced a variety show en­
our families and friends," said Emy. junction with the art display, will
titled "Together Wherever We Go."
She added, "The dance is the most sing from 10:30 a.m. to 11 a.m. and
"The production includes 15 acts
formal event planned. It also offers from 11:30 a.m. to noon.
and will be performed in the Angela
the opportunity to hear College Acollege open house is scheduled
Athletic Facility," Emy remarked.
President john Duggan speak." 
from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30p.m. on Sat­
Parents and daughters may partic­
urday afternoon in the Angela Ath­Preceding the dinner dance, a ipate in the Sports Festival on Satur­letic Facility. An anticipated Sunday
cash bar will open at 6 p.m. Saturday day from 9 a.m. to noon in the liturgy will ensue at 4 p.m. in the
evening in the Century Center. A Angela Athletic Facility. Church ofOur Lady ofLoretto.
welcome by Emy and Duggan will "Tim Dillon, assistant director of 
begin at 7:30p.m. with dinner being athletics and recreation at the Col­Sophomore Parents' Weekend served at 7:45p.m. lege, will speak on fitness," ex­will conclude Sunday with a brunch The dance will proceed from 9:30 plained Emy, "and racquetball and from 9:30a.m. to 10:30 a.m. in the 
p.m. to 1 a.m. "The music will be tennis courts may be reserved. Saint Mary's dining hall. 
ND receives grant for robotics lab 
ByCAROLYN GILLESPIE of robots, when it is actually "an in­Located in Fitzpatrick Hall ofEngi­StaffReporter dustrial robot that is likened to an neering, the lab should be available arm, one that has several joints along for student use next fall. All of the 
A robotics laboratory emphasiz­with extension and gripping capa­S250,000 will be used for equip­ing analysis and design is being es­bilities." ment purchases and for funds sup­tablished in the University of Notre The arm is completely controlled porting various programs of study Dame's College of Engineering with by computer programming which the engineering department will a S250,000 grant from the Garret allows for greater versatility. pursue. Corporation, a Los Angeles-based 
This machine has become a 
The lab itself will be used mainlyaerospace firm. 

popular mechanic device used 
by graduate students and faculty butThe grant was issued to the Uni­
throughout various automotive 
will also be available for under­versity as a result of a proposal in­
plants to replace manual labor. 
graduates to use for projects. Initialitiated and written in a joint effort by plans call for a fundamental teachingProfessors Albin Szewczyk, The University has already and research lab.
Raymond Brach, and James Kam­received the first allocation of the man, all of the aerospace and me­S250,000, which is being dis­Szewczyk, chairman ofthe depart­chanical engineering department. tributed over a three-year time per­ment of aerospace and mechanical 
According to Brach, robotics is iod, and is now in the planning stage engineering, said laboratory instruc­
often misinterpreted as the creation ofthe lab itself. tion will coincide with an introduc­tory robotics course now being taught as part ofthe mechanical sys­tems stem of the aerospace and me­chanical engineering curriculum. Some interdisciplinary work involv­ing both mechanical and electrical 
The Observer  Thunrlay, February28, 1985-page 3  

The Observer Thunday, February 28, 1985-page 4 

Israel, Egypt consider peace talks renewal 
JERUSALEM · Prime Minister Shimon Peres and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt ex­changed special envoys yester­day to explore the prospects for renewing Middle East peace talks. 
Peres met twice with an envoy sent by Mubarak, and the prime minister's spokesman told reporters that Israel and Egypt "recognize the need and urgency to further the peace process" and "will intensify their contacts." 
The new contacts are the first significant movement toward a Middle East peace initiative since the U.S.-mediated talks on autonomy for Palestinians living under Israeli occupation broke down in 1982. 
Peres' spokesman, Uri Savir, repeated the prime minister's po· sition that he is ready to partici· pate In new Middle East peace talks withJordan or with a mixed 


Budget office says deficit to stay high 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Federal deficits 
are likely to remain above S180 bil­
lion through the end of this decade, 
even if Congress adopts all the 
spending cuts sought by President 
Reagan. the non-partisan Congres· 
sional Budget Office said yesterday. 
In a 141-page review of the presi­
dent's S974 billion budget for fiscal 
1986, beginning Oct. I, the CBO 
disputed the administration's con­
tention that adoption of the budget 
would cause the deficit to decline 
gradually to S82 billion by 1990. 
Instead, the deficit would drop 
from its current level of just over 
S200 billion to about S186 billion 
and "remain at about (that) level 
through the period," CBO director 
Rudolph Penner told the Senate Ap· 
propriations Committee in prepared 
testimony. 
Meanwhile, White House budget 
director David Stockman rejected 
Democrats' suggestions that the ad· 
ministration was using "fake" figures 
to support its budget projections. 
He also denied that his outspoken 
attacks on certain programs like 
farm subsidies and military pensions 
might cost him his job. 
"I plan to be here. I know 
(defending budget cuts) is a tough 
problem but I think I have some­
thing to contribute and I believe 
they know that downtown," he told 
the House Budget Committee. 
The CBO, in the first complete congressional analysis of Reagan's latest budget proposals, said the ad­ministration's projections of declin· ing deficits after 1986 are based on brighter economic conditions than those foreseen by congressional economists. 
For instance, although both the administration and the CBO predict that interest rates will remain be· tween 8 percent and 8.c; percent throughout 198S, "the administra­tion assumes that real interest rates decline steadily after 1987," the budget office said. 
Under the congressional forecast, the three-month Treasury bill rate would decline from 8.2 percent to 
S.O percent by 1990. Under the con­gressional analysis, the rate would remain at 8.2 percent through 1990. 
Administration projections also assume lower inflation rates and more rapid growth in the gross na­tional product throughout the de­cade than those foreseen by congressional analysts. 

Jordanian-Palestinian delegation, provided the delegation did not include members ofthe Palestine liberation Organization. 
In Cairo, Mubarak met with Is· rael's energy minister, Moshe Shahal, in what Israeli sources said were "complementary" talks. A second Israeli was ex­pected to head for Cairo later and Israeli sources indicated he would be Avraham Tamir, director-general of Peres' office. 
Israeli officials saw in the in· tensified contacts a possibility of better relations with Egypt after a chill that followed Israel's June 1982 invasion of Lebanon. 
The new Israeli-Egyptian moves came at a time when Jor· dan and PLO chairman Yasser Arafat have agreed on a joint negotiating strategy on the Middle East. That agreement has been applauded by Mubarak as offering a way to get talks going on the entire range of issues that block peace in the Middle East. 
Pope, Grotnyko meet in Vatican; discuss Catholicistn in U.S.S.R. 
VATICAN CITY· PopeJohn Paul II and the Soviet foreign minister, Andrei Gromyko, held an apparently cordial conversation for nearly two hours yesterday about world peace and the "situation" of Catholics in the Soviet Union. 
Neither side gave details ofthe un­usually long audience. It was John Paul's first with a Kremlin official since the martial law crackdown in his native Poland in 1981 and the at­tempt on his life, which some reports have linked to the Soviet se­cret police. 
Gromyko, 75, got a red-carpet welcome for his first visit to the Vatican in six years. He said it was a "good" meeting, and that the ques· tion of a papal visit to the Soviet Union did not come up. 
John Paul, 64, said last year that he had been denied permission to visit lithuania, a strongly Roman Catho­lic republic in the Soviet Union. 
John Paul greeted Gromyko in Russian, and the Soviet official assured the pontiff of his "best wishes" in English at the end of the meeting. The pope appeared relaxed and both men were smiling when reporters and photographers were ushered into the papal library. 
Presenting his gift of a smali lac­quered box to John Paul, Gromyko said, "It's a small memento, as the ~ericans say." 
Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro said only that the two men discussed "peace in the world and the situation of Catholics in the So· viet Union." 
Advance expectations were that Gromyko would seek papal support for the Kremlin campaign against President Reagan's space-based defense proposal, commonly called Star Wars, and that John Paul would press his guest about religious liberty in the Soviet Union. 

St. Patrick was a Gentleman 
but. john Kennedy singS at the Grad. Club Friday March 1. 9pm -1am located in Wilson Commons 
--~---~------~~------~ 
The Observer 

Troubled kids get hospital ward 
Associated Press "We will seek ... to be the child's videotaping children with parents, advocate," said Dr. Howard Levy, he added. CHICAGO · Abused, neglected chairman of the pediatrics depart· 
"A large part of(caring) for a child 
and emotionally troubled children ment, who helped develop the pro­
is not just treating physical ail­
will have their own ward . with spe· gram. 
ments," Levy said. "We'll give them 
cially trained doctors, nurses and 
psychiatric tests, psychological eval­
The hospital staff and children ·
"child life therapists" . in what 
uation . . . and evaluate the family
the program is geared to those 14
Mount Sinai Hospital says is the first 
with the child.... Ifyou just go into a
and younger · will dress in street
pediatric program of its kind in the 
home, that's a one-shot deal."
clothes and the rooms will be fur­
United States. nished to look more like home than Levy said parents would be be en­The ward, which opened yester­a hospital. couraged to stay with their children day, is designed to treat physical and during treatment. behavioral problems arising from A team ot about 20 -including In some cases, he said, parents just 
Thunrlay, February28, 1985 -page 5 
childhood crises ranging from sexual abuse to divorce and emo­tional trauma that might be faced by "latchkey" children whose parents work. 

doctors, nurses and social workers ­will treat parents and children referred by law-enforcement and other agencies, Levy said. The team would use techniques such as 
Men's Hair Styling at its finest ... 
(St Rd 23) Across from Martin's 


OOHAIRCUTS 
minutes from campus ! 
Haitcut,

f!1'j 
shampoo, & blowdry

rfJ 
$8.50 

(hair must be shampooed day ofcut) 
We are only minutes from campus ! 
. ENTIRE STOCK 
conaN 
SWEATERS.... 
ENTIRE STOCK 
SWIMWEAR. 
need to know how to do their jobs. The Observer/johannes Hacker
'I' before 'e' ... 
"I've never understood why 
Sopbwlore]imMcGawanandseniorAnnandoByrnejudgedthe
people think that we in the Western 
Grace Hall Spelling Bee last night in the Grace Pit. The event is a
society as parents know how to be 
four-year tradition in Grace.
parents," said Levy. 
Senate authorizes new farm bill 
DENIM JEANS..... OFF ~;~~~TS ........... 6 10 OFF ~~~~!~ ........2 FOR 616 
WASHINGTON-The Senate, ig­noring the ·wishes of President Reagan, yesterday endorsed legisla­tion authorizing S 1 00 million to "buy down" interest rates for credit­poor farmers needing loans for spring planting. 
The Republican-controlled body voted 54-45 in favor of an amend­ment to an African relief measure, but Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole, R-Kan., predicted it is "never going to become law" and adminis­tration officials said Reagan might veto the bill. 
Eight Republicans defected in 
......ss 
ss 

MIX OR MATCH: 
CAMP SHIRTS, CROP TOPS, 
~i:n~~~~~ .......2 FOR$20 

MAURICES 
Where Fashion Doesn't Cost A Fortune UNIVERSITY PARK SHOPPING CENTER 
passing the amendment, which was sponsored by Sens. Edward Zorinsky, D-Neb., and)ohn Melcher, D-Mont. 
The White House had lobbied against any changes in federal credit help for farmers, many ofwhom are unable to obtain new loans because the land they use for collateral has plummeted in value. The adminis· tration is rushing to put in place its own much-modified loan-guarantee program, which President Reagan contends is adequate to save those credit changes sensed growing sup­port for their amendments, Dole said new legislation would only cause delays in implementing any credit program, and "the farmer's not going to know what he can do." 
farmers  with  the  best  chance  of  
long-term survival.  
As  senators  backing  the  farm- 

The vote had been seen as so close that Vice President George Bush had delayed a trip to Texas to be present in the Senate in case his vote was needed to break a tie. 
The Zorinsky amendment -would make available $100 million in federal money, to be matched by an equal amount from individual farm lenders, to "buy down" interest rates by up to four percentage points. 
Pittsburgh declared top U.S. city 
1 
, 
1 NEW YORK-Pittsburgh, a giant of l
.,

the industrial Northeast, has replaced Atlanta, boomtown of the Sunbelt, as the best American city to 1
,

live in, according to the second edi­tion Rand McNally "Places Rated AI-1
,

manac." Yuba City, Calif., an expanding ,1 agricultural center, which wasn't 
1 

even considered a citywhen the first book came out in 1981, has replaced Lawrence-Haverhill, Mass., as the lowest metropolitan area. 
The second choice is Boston, which jumped from No. 18 on the previous list. No. 3 honors went to Raleigh-Durham, N.C., which also was in the top 1 0 last time, followed by San Francisco and Philadelphia. 
Nassau-Suffolk, two affluent counties on Long Island, a suburb of New York City, ranked No. 6, up from 48 because of a new rating method that allows areas where there is significant commuting of workers to count the cultural re­sources of the larger city while not being penalized for any of its flaws, notably crime. 
St. Louis, Louisville, Norwalk, Conn., and Seattle rounded out the top l 0 while Atlanta slipped to llth place. • 
Pine Bluff, Ark., retained its second-to-last ranking, despite the addition of 32 new metropolitan areas ranked for the first time. 
Others in the bottom 10 were, from the bottom: Modesto, Calif., Dothan, Ala., Albany, Ga., Benton Harbor, .Mich., Gadsden, Ala., Casper, Wyo., Rockford, Ill., and An· derson, Ind. 
Four cities in the bottom 10, Yuba <;ity, Dothan, Benton Harbor and Casper, were not even considered cities when the first edition of "Places Rated" came out, ranking 277 cities. 
The 448-page book, co-authored by Richard Boyer and Davad Savageau, analyzes 329 government­defined metropolitan statistical areas in the country. 



-~-------------~ 
View~_o_i_n_t_______
Th_unday_,_Fe_bruary-28_,1_9s_s-:_pag_e_6 
Educational financing appears as total disaster 
By March I, many of us will have filed the To deny qualified students access to educa­Financial Aid Form. This elaborate document tional funds merely to "trim a little fat" from helps determine a student's eligibility for both the budget while we send millions of dollars University-based aid, such as Notre Dame in so-called covert aid to Nicaraguan rebels Scholarships, and Federal programs like Pell and possibly 2 S2.2 billion in aid to Israel, Grants, Supplemenul Educational Opportu­would be ludicrous. nity Grants, National Direct Student Loans, The student receiving aid is in a "Catch-22" 
situation. The price ofeducation and the price of non-education are both quite high. What
John Perez 

can be done to ease this painful situation, to wean higher education off loan dependancy? 
just wondering It is obvious that cutting student aid is not the answer. Neither would it be fair to burden citizens with still higher taxes. The only al­
and Guaranteed Student Loans. ternative is to develop new ways to finance 
Over halfof Notre Dame's students receive higher education. These alternatives would some kind of financial assistance. Indeed, the necessarily involve government, educational Financial Aid Office has calculated that a typi­institutions, and students. cal Domer shelled out nearly Sll,OOO to at­One possible help, albeit rather indirect, tend Notre Dame in this academic year -a would involve government farming out more significant sum by anyone's standards. Finan­of its research and development activities to cial aid, in the form ofgrants, loans, and jobs is the nation's colleges and universities. They for many a key to footing this substantial bill. could probably do it for less than the govern­
Unfortunately, this picture may change for ment itselfor private industries. The resulting the worse if newly-appointed Secretary of increase in cash flow to the schools would Education William Bennett gets his way. Ben­serve as an incentive to hold the line on or to nett, a hard-line Reaganomics supporter, reduce tuition and fees as well as provide wants to slash funding for federal student aid income for students in the form of campus programs. According to syndicated columnist work-study opportunities. Ellen Goodman, Bennett sees the typical col­A more direct approach would involve aid lege student as a "car-owning, stereo-buying, in exchange for service. In a manner akin to In the dead of winter the abortion issue against a cultural force operating through the beach-hopping youngblood with books ... a that of ROTC scholarships, governmental comes alive again. The anniversary of Roe vs. woman, and it points to creation itself, which variation on the theme of the Cadillac-driving units or private firms could provide grants in Wade, the demonstrations, the bombings, the operates through changes during all of one's welfare mother." The Secretary insists that if exchange for an employment commitment to president's voice, the "Silent Scream": these life. It looks to the principle that thou shalt not his proposals are enacted, some students that agency. Students would be able to afford give pro-life new energy and pro-choice new terminate the creation of a human life at any might just have to "trade down from private an education, the nation would get highly resolve. The two sides argue without result, stage. schools to public ones" or temporarily delay qualified public servants, and industry would except to attack each other's spirit, destroy The secular vs. the religious, sociology vs. their education. Families would just have to get qualified employees in return. each other's self-esteem. Both sides call out philosophy, body/mind vs. mind/body. How "tighten the belt." Suggestions for changing or otherwise im­can we ever communicate? How can the issue 
Granted, one side effect offinancial aid pro­proving the financial aid picture could fill this Professor Edward Vasta ever be resolved? grams is the growing student "debt bomb." entire newspaper and dozens more. One thing One thing is clear, that pro-choice fears life Government statistics show that about 60 per­is clear: the present system of educational and pro-life fears death. Pro-choice fears the cent of full-time undergraduate students bor­financing is a disaster -a total mess. Cutting aid guest column inconvenience, the hardship, the tragedy that row at least some money to cover their programs will only make this mess that much an unwanted child can let into a woman's, a educational expenses. The average loan is for worse. Action needs to be taken now: by gov­their arguments, sloganize them, family's, a society's life. Pro-life is outraged $2,200 a year, for a total of about S8,800 of ernment, schools, industry, and students alike. platitudinize, accuse, but move eachother not that humans let death invade the womb, kill a debt by graduation time. Graduate students Otherwise, the number of persons in this one jot from original convictions. living being in life's very sanctuary, the one 
r 
face an even tighter crunch. For example, country who will benefit from higher educa­The onlyone converted is "Silent Scream's" place to whose peace every person uncon­lawyers and doctors average from S30,000 to tion will plummet. We will all be the worse off narrator: a medical scientist and therefore sciously lives to return. S40,000 of debt by the time they begin their for it. Our leaders and legislators all had their convertible from abortionist to anti­How can the two sides communicate? How practices. crack at hitting the books, now it is only fair abortionist by scientific evidence. A sonic can we resolve the issue? 
This, certainly, is a tremendous burden. It that we and future generations have at least movie showing a fetus evading the abor­Is, however, a burden we assume voluntarily the same chance. tionist's probe leads the doctor ofmedicine to Perhaps by recognizing that fear of life and in pursuit ofwhat we hope are grater rewards: conclude that abortions injure sensitive fear ofdeath are the same fear, and that these 
knowledge and satisfying employment. Loans john Perez is a junioraccounting majorat beings. But other scientists contradict, saying fears are the organismic condition, according are a necessary evil, an investment in our Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint col­that the fetus's evasive movements are the to a host of modern psychiatrists, that always future and the future ofour society as a whole. ~n~ -painless reflexes of a primitive nervous sys­explains why humans act the way they do. life tem. There can be, tlley say, no silent scream. is overwhelming, threatening, enslaving, shot So the conflict proceeds, the two sides cas­through with terror and death. With every in­tigating, tearing at consciences: pulling apart convenience some of life's possibilities die; the confidence and security of a mature with every tragedy, families die. We fear life civilization. because it brings death; we fear death because
P.O. Box Q 
They also stick each other with sneering it takes away life. identifications: liberals vs. Conservatives, At­In our stands on abortion, life/death faces heists vs. Moral Majority, Women's liberation us on its naked terms. Let us come together 
But it has gotten to the point that each and vs. the Catholic Church. These narrow labels then, over our fear. Let our leaders come to­
Do not destroy reading 
every letter printed is a response to another sting: churchgoers say pro-life is not necessar­gether in their common fear and trembling, letter. Or sometimes a fresh idea pops up and ily a religious argument; family planners say which can clear the eyes and open the heart.with P .0. Box Q battle someone writes a good opinion, only to get pro-choice is not without reverence for life. Let them acknowledge their misery, our insulted by someone else who feels they are Both speak with sincerity. Pro-choice looks misery, the misery ofthe unborn. Let them ac­Dear Editor: smarter or better informed. to the inconveniences, the hardships, the knowledge that we, all three, are in this to­
I am writing In response to all the responses Then again, maybe the editors could stop tragedies that an unwanted child can bring, gether. Then let us see what can be done. In P.O.Box Q lately. printing letters that have no real purpose but and to cultural forces that, through their I do not feel that the things that have been to insult someone who had an opinion strong hegemony over pregnancy, control a wo­Edward Vasta is a Professor ofEnglish at argued in the column recently are important enough to write it down. man's body. Pro-life defends the baby's hody Notre Dame. 


enough for all ofus to be getting upset at each other for our opinions. I feel that people have Please, please, my schoolmates, friends, a right to express their opinions without fear alumni, professors, and other readers of The of others criticizing ( or, more recently, in­Observer do not try so hatd to destroy or sulting ) their poSitions. lunchtime reading by trying to start a battle of 
the letters to the editor; lunch is hard enough 
I can understand how emotions can get out to stomach already. of control here, what with the pressures of joe Neuville classc:s, tests, and boring social alternatives. Planner Hall 
Viewpoint wants to hear from you. Ifyou
Viewpoint have an opmwn, brilliant insight or humerous comment concerning anything ap­
pearing in The Observer just send a letter to 
P.O.BoxQ.
Policy 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edttor·tn·Chtef . . .. Bob Vonderherde Business Manager. . Dave Taiclet Managing Edttor . ... Mark Worscheh Controller . . . .........Dave Stephen itch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Ed1tor .. Sarah Hamrllon Advertising Manager . Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Edttor .. ... Dan McCullough Circulation Manager .. Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Edt tor .. Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager. . .. Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinron Sports Edttor . . Michael Sullivan Production Manager . Chris Bowler of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Vtewpoint Editor . ... Dave Grote ProJeCt Manager Amy Stephan present the views ol their authors. Column space is avarlable to all members of the Features Editor . Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. Photo Edttor . .... Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 




Thunrlay, February 28, 1985 --page 7 
Not justa pianist on the side 
Special to the ObServer 
Notre Dame, Ind... "Not oruy does he play with an exceptional technique, but his performing style is a quite special mix ofthe endear­ing and the engaging. Some pianists come on to the platform and say, 'listen, this is me.' Mr. Jacob is much more the servant of the music which, as unfamiliar repertoire, he takes the trouble to expound before he plays." 
This praise was given by critic MichaelJohn White ofa concert by Jeffrey Jacob, a concert pianist and professor at Saint Mary's College. He recently returned from athree month European tour, receiving superlative reviews in each country he visited. 
Jacob's unique concert manner, as indicated by White in his review in "The Guardian", is one ofthe reasons for his most successful European tour-but not the only one. In Holland he was hailed as "a young musical genius", while a British magazine reported his "formidable technique and a real artist's imagination in the in­terpretive field.'' 
Jacob's tour began in Ghent, Belgium, in September and in­cluded five concerts in England, five in The Netherlands, two in Germany and three performances in Warsaw, Poland. His program was primarily contemporary and featured world premieres ofworks by composers in two ofthe countries on his itinerary. 
In the London Purcell Room concert he presented "Celebration," a work written for him by British composer, Francis Routh. At his concerts in The Net­herlands he played "Piano Sonato No.2" by Dutch composer,Jo Sporck. His programs also included his own "Two Fantasies" which according to English critic Denby Richards, "clearly demonstrates jacob's strong leaning to the roman­tic imagery and mystery ofpiano color and drama." 
As part ofmost ofhis programs, Jacob presented the European premieres of"Gnomic Variations" by George Crumb and "Piano Sonata No. 1" by Chu Wang-Hua. (The latter was written for Jacob by the Chinese composer when he was invited to make a three week con­cert tour ofChina in 1982. Jacob was the first American to receive 

A summer in Cape May ' 
TimFarreU 
features staffwriter 
Need summer work, but don't want to sacrifice fun and sun at the shore? Don't despair --there's a place for you. Cape May, located on NewJersey's Southern tip has plenty ofsummer jobs for college students. Just follow the Garden State south and you are there. 
This town was first settled in the 17th century as a fishing port before becoming a resort area in the Victorian age. Now the town is a national historic site with both a thriving to"Urism and fishing indus­try. 
College-aged people (both mentally and physically) come to Cape May from all over the country, but mostly from the Philadelphia area. Most take on tourism-oriented jobs such as waiting on tables, bussing or cooking. The Barberry Inn, Lobster House, Blue Claw and 


MS drive still strong 

Karen McCloskey 
features staffwriter 
Rock-Alike is on the way! . 
So, keep the coins and quiet money rolling in. 
As the NO Millions Against MS drive prepares for its fourth week, the dollar amount keeps rising. More social activities and collections are scheduled for the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and the deadline for the MTV concert contest is drawing near. 
Organizers are encouraging students to participate in the planned activities. Ifthe momentum continues through March, Notre Dame could well play host to the April 27 MTV bash. 
THIS WEEK 
•SAB 
Movies-Tuesday night, the Student Activities Board presented rpe final film in its MS benefit series, "Against All Odds". 

•Snow 
Softball Sign-ups-Sign-ups were held on Tuesday for the Snow Softball Tournament to be held this weekend. Ifyou want to participate in the tournament but missed the deadline, call Jeff McGowan at 283-1049. Teams should have five girls and five guys. The registration fee is S 10 and will be donated to the MS drive. 

•
WVFI-Aline Gioffre, chairman ofNO Millions Against MS, was featured on a radio spot on Wednesday evening at 9:00 p.m. on WVFI, the campus AM station. 

•Festiwl 
ofHealth-University Food Services begins its Festival ofHealth this week. The festival will run through March 11. The MS Bike-a-thon is part ofthe event and will be taking place in the Dining Halls during the dinner hours. Be sure to make a pledge for your favorite dorm. For more information, contact Mark Facer at 283-1969. 

•Senior 
Cocktail Party-A Senior Cocktail Party will be held in the ACC tonight from 9-1. There will be a S3 admission fee and all proceeds will be donated to MS. Free drinks will be served from 9-11. 


THIS WEEKEND 
•Snow 
Softball Tourruunent-The "Snow" Softball Tournament will be held this weekend with or without the cooperation ofthe South Bend weather. The tournament will run from Friday through Sunday and games will be played on the fields behind the ACC. It is a single elimination tournament with prizes for the winning team. For more information, call Jeff McGowan at 283-1049. 

•
Phone-a-thon-The Freshman Advisory Council is sponsoring a phone-a-thon on Saturday. Students will be taking pledges in the Student Government Offices on the second floor ofLaFortune all day.Radio announcements on South Bend stations will be encouraging the general community to pledge. Students are also asked to make donations. The numbers to call on Saturday are 239-7668, 239-6111 and-239-7417. 


' NEXTWEEK 
•Rock-Alike-A mandatory meeting for all persons interested in competing in the Rock-Alike contest will be held on Tuesday from 7-8 pm in the New Orleans Room of LaFortune. The campus winner ofthe rock look alike contest will compete against winners from the other MS/MTV contest schools at the MTV concert in the spring. The overall winner will be awarded a summer internship with MTV in New York City. Information will be distributed Tuesday evening. For more ·information call ~he Student Govern­ment Offices at 239-7668. 
DORM AND CLASS ACTMTIES 
•Alumni-Dillon 
Tug-of-War-Last Saturday, Alumni and Dillon Halls challenged each other to a tug-of-war. The dorm which raised more money for MS was allowed an extra man in the actual tug-of-war and a distinct advantage in the contest. Alumni Hall raised $525 while Dillon raised S401. 

•Mr. 
D's Party a Winner-The Junior class sponsored party at Mr. D's last week netted over S400 for the MS cause. 

•Flanner 
Food Sales-Flarmer held a Speci"l food sales night night and raised S 14 5 for MS. 


•USA Skating Party-The Skating Party held last week at USA 
Skates in Mishawaka raised S150 for the MS cause. DONATIONS 
•United 
Beverage-The United Beverage Bottling Company donated S128 to NO Millions Against MS. 

•ND 
Education Majors-Students majoring in Education at Notre Dame are being asked to donate S 1 each to the MS fund. 

•Donation 
Cans-Food Sales in each dorm should have the official MS donation cans available for students to make individual donations. 

•
Direct Donations-Individual and group contributions are always welcome. To make a direct donation, call Aline Gioffre at 283·2179 or mail checks, made payable to "NO Millions Against MS," to Student Activities, attn. NO Millions Against MS, LaFortune Student Center-1st Floor, Notre Dame , Indiana 46556. 


STILL TO COME 
Events to look forward to include: 
Sophomore Class Monte Carlo Night on March 8. 
Happy Hour at Senior Bar from 4 to 8 p.m. on March 8. 
Ice Skating Party at the ACC 7 tp 9:30 p.m. on March 14. 
Alumni/Dillon Tug-of-War rematch, date to be announcc;d. 
Chairman Aline Gioffre would like to remind groups and dorms that are holding fundraisers to turn in the proceeds from the events as soon as possible. 
Gioffre said that money raised in the fundraisers may be delivered to 238 Lewis Hall or to the Student Activities Office in LaFortune. 
..,
,' 
,
,
,
., , 
., .., ,, 
1 
~ 

the Peking Conservatory Com­memorative Medal ofHonor.) 
In Germany Jacob was the first guest artist in the new Beethoven Hall ofthe Richard Strauss Konser­vatorium in Munich, the largest music conservatory in Germany. 
At the invitation ofthe Polish Ministry ofCulture,Jacob spent a week in Poland. On November 27 he gave a lecture/recital entitled, "Foundations of20th-Century Music," and on November 28 he gave a lecture/recital, "Aspects of Contemporary Chinese and West­ern European Music." On Decem­ber 1, Jacob gave a recital in Paderewski Hall ofthe Frederic Chopin Academy for Music. A reception following the concert was held for Jacob at the American Embassy in Warsaw. 
while in Europe. The British Broad­casting Corporation recorded works by George Crumb, Vincent Persichetti and Samuel Barber to air nationally in March 1985. Polish Television recorded Jacob's recital in Paderewski Hall, Warsaw, along with a pre-recital interview and Polish National Radio will broadcast a concert in March 1985. 
Jacob, who makes all ofhis own tour arrangements, met many musicians and their families in the countries he visited. He developed close ties. He comments, "The people I met were warm and hospitable and very curious about all aspects ofAmerican life.'' 
An ingenuous manner and prodigious talent make Jacobs a remarkably effective goodwill em­bassador for Saint Mary's College and his country as well as an Ameri­
plu:sicilm ofthe first rank. 
Jeffry Jacob, Concert pianist and professor at Saint Mary's 
Golden Eagle all have large kitchen and service staffs. In fact, a good waitress can work in just about any of the dozens offine Cape May restaraunts. 
Jobs women !Jlight prefer are in the various gift shops, and flower shops. Incidently girls (and guys), Caroline's Boutique has got some of the best fashions on the coast. Tell Caroline you read this, and she will be sure to get you in style for the beach and bar scene. 
All of the beaches are great, but do require tags. The best bars include the Ugly Mug and Car­neys. Both ofwhich offer fine entertainment and excellent set­tings filled with young people. 
The more adventurous types can work on the docks. The three main docks are Lobster House, A and)'s and the Co-op. They open between 7 and 8 a.m. and once the dockmaster gets to know you it is pretty steady work. Pay is daily and tax free. 
Ifyou're interested in a summer ofcommercial fishing experience, ask to speak to either the captain or first mate. Ifyou have never been out, make sure you tell them you are a greenhorn. Also, make sure you have a sea bag ready when you board, just in case. It may require living out ofa bag for a while but in an instant you could be out to sea making as much as a thousand dollars in two weeks or, ifyou don't catch anything, not a dime. 
Ifyou decide to do it, write the chamber ofcommerce to get boarding house addre~s. I rec­ommend the Maycomber or Hunt­-ington. Rent averages about $55 a week, which usually does not include a stove. 
For a fun-filled, money-making summer go to Cape May. Who knows, you may come back to school with a pocket full ofCape May Diamonds. 

-·­

Accent 
r 
The February blues 
I r 
~ 
, 
r 
' 
r 
r 
r 
A dedicated staffat the Counseling and Psychological Services Center works to provide students with the opportun­ity to talk about a problem . ..or, just talk. Above is Dr. Patrick Utz, director ofthe center. Below, Dr. Alicia Finn, at right Dr. Wayne Pelligrini and at bottom, Dr. Susan Steibe. 
I 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
you can b t'e 
Psych Services-p people with prob 
Kathy Scarbeck 
features staff writer 
The Notre Dame student body is a population at risk. Its members are confronted with SU(;h nagging questions as what they want to do with the rest oftheir lives and with whom they will do it. Meanwhile the academic and social demands pile up like snow drifts during a South Bend winter. To further complicate matters, the students, after having left the unit ofthe family, must struggle to develop an entirely new system oftheir own. 
According to Patrick Utz, direc­tor ofthe Counseling and Psycho­
''People will ex­
perience difficulties 
and problems in life 
management. This 
is why the Univers­
ity recognizes the 
need for profession­als in managing problems more 
effectively. '' 
logical Services Center at Notre Dame, these are some ofthe reasons that can make the college years rather difficult. "People will 
_experience difficulties and prob­lems in life management. This is why the University recognizes the need for professionals in managing problems more effectively," says Utz. 
Staffed by a team of psyc­hologists, a psychiatrist, a social 
worker and psychology students working toward their doctorates, the center offers a variety ofpro· grams to assist both undergraduate and graduate students. 
In addition to providing counsel­ing on an individual level, the cen­ter, located on the third floor ofthe Student Health Center, offers many regularly scheduled group meetings and workshops. Alcohol abuse is dealt with by such groups as Stu­dents on Alcoholic Problems (SOAP) and Adult Children Al­coholic Parent (ACAP), which is aimed at helping young people affected by someone else's drinking. There are also groups designed to help with family crises. "Family Ties" helps the student who is struggling to maintain a positive relationship with his parents, while the Griefand Loss group assists those who have had close family members die recently. Self-hypnosis and relaxation are discussed in Stress Management which is offered in the form ofa physical education class. Achievement workshops give instruction on how to come to grips with pressure. In addition there are programs on eating disorders, asser­tion training and study/time man­agement skills. Counseline, a telephone service that provides taped materials on a variety ofstu­dent concerns, is also offered. 
With all the center does for the Notre Dame community, Utz would like the center's image to be more positive. "Our society is coming out ofthe Dark Ages where people with psychological problems are ostracized." Utz cites the center's teaching ofP.E. courses and spon· soring ofa film/ discussion series on psycholigical topics as helping to put the center into the mainstream ofservices. "Ule third floor (of the Student Health Center) is not an 



"Room 300"-a comfortable lounge is used at the center for group meetings. 
~ople for 
Iems 
eerie place where crazy people go," says Utz, "It is staffed with people for people with problems." 
The center assisted approxi­mately 1300 students last year on either an individual or group basis or in the workshop format. Utz states, though, that percentage wise, the center was at the lower end ofusage compared to similar institutions at other colleges. He explains that this is in part due to the counseling that is made available through hall rectors as well as the services offered by the Freshman Year ofStudies, which helps freshmen adjust to the process ofcoming to college. 
Utz urges people to come to the center ifthey are having a problem but aren't sure ifcounseling is nec­essary. Some signs to look for, though. are In academic perfor­mance. Studying longer to master the same arriount of material or missing test questicns to which the student knew the answers are symptoms ofa high level ofanxiety which may get out ofcontrol. 
According to the nature ofthe problem, the center might well refer a student to other depart­ments on campus such as the Uni­versity Ministry, the Career and Placement Center or the infirmary for a medical evaluation. 
"I would like no one to have to use our services, but that is un­realistic," Utz explains, "There are more people who could profit than just those who are using them. We're hoping that a more positivt image (ofthe center) will get the .n to take advantage ofthe services without a stigma being associated with it." 
$ervices at the center are offered 
on a minimalfee scale starting at 
14.00 per session. However, there is no chargefor the initial appoint­ment, and unlimited credit is available. Students wishing to have more information on any of the programs are asked to call the center at 239-7336. 
Counseline Counseline is another service of the Counseling and Psycho­logical Services Center. It offers professionally taped materials covering a variety of sfudent concerns -all you do is dial 239-7793 and ask for the name or number ofthe tape you wish to hear.  
Hours: 4-12 p.m. Mon.-Thurs. 4-10 p.m. Fri.  
1 Friendship BuDding 3 Types of Intimacy 4 Physic:allntimacy 6 Expressing Negative Thoughts and Feelings 7 Dealing with Constructive Criticism 8 Dealing with Anger 9 Understanding Jealousy and How to Deal with It 10 How to Say"No" 16 Becoming Open to Others 18 Dating Skills 20 Female Homosexuality 21 Male Homosexuality 30 Anxiety and Possible Ways to Cope with It 32 How to Dealwith Loneliness 33 How to Handle Fears 34 Increasing Self-Awareness 35 BuildingSeH-Esteem and Confidence 37 Relaxation Exercises 38 Coping with Stress 39 Female Sex Role ­changes and Stresses 40 Male Sex Role ­Changes and Stresses 44 Learning to Accept Yourself 61 What Is Therapy and How to Use It 70 Infatuation or Love? 83 How to Cope with a Broken Relationship 84 Death and Dying 85 Understanding Grief 90 Helping a Friend 160 Early Signs ofan Alcohol Problem 161 Responsible Decision About Drinking 402 Self-Assertiveness 412 Examples ofContract Building 431 What Is Depression? 432 How to Deal with Depression 433 Depression as a Lifestyle 478 Becoming Independentfrom Parents 479 Dealingwith Alcoholic Parents 491 Suicidal Crisis 492 Recognizing Suicidal Potentials in Others 493 Helping Someone in a Suicidal Crisis  

Thursday, February 28, 1985-page 8 -9 
Self help may be the key to happiness 
Monica Fatum 
Book review 


All ofus have our own private definitions ofhappiness. According to Dr. Harod Greenwald, author ofThe Happy Person, only you can decide what makes you happy. And now, with his book, you can begin to make it happen. 
The back cover ofthe book makes this pitch: "You'll be able to determine, perhaps for the first time in your life, exactly what would make you a happy 
· person; how to get rid ofthe life decisions, conscious or unconscious, which are holding you back. Most important -you'll find your own alternatives to the self-destructive behavior that's causing your problems. Within yourselfyou'll discover the resources to heal your pains and overcome your most paralyzing fears." That sounds like a pretty monumental task, but actually Greenwald approaches it in a simple seven-step plan illustrated with personal case studies and soul-searching questions. In the first place, happy people don't see themselves as the victims in their life stories. They choose to be happy by turning problems on their heads, using them to their advantage. However important external factors like health, physical appearance and upbringing may be, they don't have to determine the happiness quotient in anyone's life story. Quite simply, the way we experience our lives is up to us. Ifyou see a situation in your life as a problem, that's what it is-a problem. Ifyou see it as an opportunity, it can suddenly look and feel very different. 
•Step 
One ofGreenwald's plan is to decide what you want in order to be happy or happier. You want to be happy, but what does that mean to you? What do you really want? You need to develop a specific goal to work for. 

•Step 
Two involves finding the decision behind the problem. In other words, describe the problems you have in reaching your goal. However, avoid judging your behavior at all costs. To be a good therapist to yourself, you must recognize that conquering yourselfis an impossible task. No one judges you as severely as you judge yourself. Learn to forgive yourself. 

•Step 
lbree ofthe plan is finding the context for the original decision. Ask yourselfwhen it was made. Tracing behavior back to an original decision is a little like solving a mystery and can help in shakingoffhappiness-blocking behavior. 

•Step 
Four includes listing the payoffs for the decision. Dr. Greenwald advises you to look at it this way: no matter how unhappy life has been for you so far, you have survived. You have_coped. And you can, ifyou choose, sweeten things for yourself. 

•Step 
Five calls for an examination ofyour alternatives to the behavior that is causing the problem. Stop taking yourselfso seriously. Decide to look at your alternatives. Relax. There's no deadline, no contract. · 

•Step 
Six involves choosing your alternative and putting it into practice. Don't be afraid to trust yourself. Dr. Greenwald counsels that it really doesn't matter whether or not the rest ofthe world defines your purpose as a mighty one. Just deciding to be happy constitutes a terrific contribution to the world. 

•Step 
Seven, the final stride, you learn to support yourselfin carrying out the new decision. Allow yourselfflexibility. After all, old habits die hard. Remember that a slip back into your old behavior does not mean you are a failure or the decision was bad. Acknowledge your lapse and continue carrying out the decision. Don't hesitate to reach out to friends and family for additional support. 


The Happy Person just might be your ticket to a happier life. Dr. Harold Greenwald's step-by-step method has a way ofdrawing you in and making you respond to his techniques and probing questions before you even realize it. In the book, he talks directly to you, as an old friend might. You begin to feel that Dr. Greenwald is really pulling for you. 
As the author ofThe Happy Person claims, ifyou feel that your life isn't working, you owe yourselfthis chance to be a happy person. It could work for you ifyou let it. 

Sports Briefs 
• 

Bengal Bouts tickets are now available at the Gate 10 ticket office at the ACC. Tickets are S3 for ringside and J2 for general admission to the quarter-and semifinal rounds and S5 and J4, respectively, for the finals. Three-day passes also are available at J5 for adults and S3 for students. · The Observer 
Potential cheerleaders and anyone interested in. being the leprechaun should attend a mandatory meeting on Mon­day at 6:30p.m. in the Chautaqua Ballroom. -The Observer 
Thnnday, February 28, 1985 -page 10 
The bike tournament for MS is now in prog­ress, but dorms still may register teams. Prizes will be awarded to the winning teams and runners up. For more information about this event, call Mark Facer at 283-1969 or Suzanne Farnia at 239-5449. · The Observer 1 
A racquetball clinic for intermediate players will be held tonight at 7 p.m. at court 1 in the ACC. Noel O'Sullivan will instruct players on strategy and technique in the free clinic. Anyone who is interested should sign up in advance at the NVA office or call 239-6100.-The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 11 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
0 LJnl-way 

The Obsen•er Notr.: Dame office. located on the: third floor of LaFortune Student Ct·nter. accepts classified advertbing from<) a.m. until~ p.Rl.. Monday through Friday. The Obsen•er Saint Mary's offke. lcKated on the third floor of Haggar Colleg.: Center. a~·cepts classified• from IZ:;o p.m. until ; p.m.. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for nl'Xt·day dassifit·ds b .~ p.m. All da.sifieds must be prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Chargt: is I 0 cents p<"r five charac·
Classifieds 
ters er dav. 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-3997 
TYPING AVAIL.AIILE 287-4082 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER. 233-701111. 
WORDPROCESSING 
277-M45 
Student Available for Babysctting • LOVE Kids and Dogs • Cell between 7 and 9 am. Liaa283-3033 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST· c.n-afluh On the cr088 country course back by the cemetary If found please call 284·5186 Reward: 1 six peck. 
...................... 
LOST· Camen fluh On the cr088 country course back by the cemetary. If found please call 284-5186. Reward: 1 SIX peck. 
LOST: In the corndor under the stands al the ACC Ice nnk: a black 'CCM' hockey helmet (21 on beck) Probably left there after the Pangborn-AJumni game ( 19 Feb). Has the name "Jay Sullivan" on it. Cell Tcm at x2367. 
····················· 
Lost: Gold robe chain With solid gold nug· 
get medaiion. Possibly lost in the ACC 
fhursday night In the indoor soccer tourn· 
ament near gym one or two upstacrs. Sen· 
IImental value and reward cs offered$$$$. 
If found please call Mike Viracola at 283· 
4100 anytime. 
GOLD ID Bracelet at Brigdet's or Corby 
Street CALL 5118 ask lor Cethyann 
....................... .......................... 
LOST: Grey leather jacket at Seriior Bar 
Friday Night. School ID. Keys, and 
Drivers Lccense en the pocket. REWARD. 
phone:3567 
FOUND: A SILVER RING· LOOKS VER· ARRAY VALUABLE FOUND ON 3rd FLOOR PANGBORN LAST WEEKEND CALL 2329 OA 1264 AND DESCRIBE 
found: one pair of wornen·s Qlasses out front of Dillon in a snow bank. If you loet a peir call Matt 1181 and see If they're yours. 
LOST AND FOUND: ONE UMBRELLA AT CHAT AQUA VIDEO DANCE SATUR· DAY NIGHT. If you mcsptaced your blue umbrella and/or mistakenly look my black umbrella. please give me a call. Keith REMEMBER WHEN ..... you took thai Physics book from 156A Stepen several Mondays ago? Well there is a name in lt. Check the brown. inside. lower. right cover. It says Kevin Shea 283·3828. I need it back 

Nice semc-lurncshed house. 3/4 students. 
255-3684/288.()955 
Nice 2 student semc-fumished house. 
288-Q955/2n-3604. 
FOR RENT 

SUBLET LARGE 2BR APT. AC. DISH­WASHER. WALK·IN CLOSETS, WAS· HER AND DRYER, PETS OK, RIVERSIDE DR. AND ANGELA. CALL 232-4355 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER niURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
Native New Englanders seek freedom of Midwestern mentality. Need ride home anytcme Call3884 to prevent extinction of pcece of mind. 
Summer Sales Positions. Average earn· ings $2900. Sell yellow page advertising for Notre Dame Universcty Campus Tete­phone Directory. Car necessary. No sum· mer school students. Qualified students ) should call University Dcrectories, 1-800­334-4436, for more information and to set up an cnterview by March 11. Ask for Bar· bara Nieukirk. 
WANTED 

PASSENGER WANTED TO HELP W/ GAS & TOLLS.GOING TO PHILA.AREA 3/15 RETURN 3/24. CALL MIKE 2n­6463. 
RIDE NEEDED TO I.U.·BLOOMINGTON March 1 OR. will rent car-so if you want to leave behind lhe South Bend Blues call Mike 1581 or Ed 1160 WE NEED RIDERS! 
·················•··············•····· 
Ride needed to Addison. IL or surround­ing WEST (Chicago) SUBURB. Cen leave Fri. 3/1 early afternoon. Call Linda -3749. 
SPRING CLEANING Students available for Housecleaning! We will take on any TASK -LARGE or small! Call Usa Be­tween 7 and 9am at 283-3033. 
AFFORDABLE HOUSE NEAR NOTRE DAME. TIP-TOP CONDITION. CALL NOW FOR BEST PRICE. PERFECT FOR STUDENTSIFACUL TV. 234-()465. 
74 MERCURY MONTEGO • REBUILT ENGINE,AM/FM,$650. 232-0697 
75 Chevy Maicbu CIBSSJc. excetcent ru,, ning cond. $700, call2n-4745. 
TICKETS 
HELPII! My parents have never seen an ND bas­ketball game. and I'm about to graduate' If you have any available GA's for a weekend game. call Lorie at 2810 • Today! (I'm a bit of a pup, so money is no object.) 
ad NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR WASHING· TON GAME. PLEASE CALL HELEN 3505. 
I URGENTLY NEED 5 TICKETS TO THE WASHINGTON GAME, MONEY NO OB­JECT STEVE 1653 
Need 2Wash. GAs call Tom 1022 
I NEED 3 WASHINGTON GA's. x4197 ask for Mike. 
WANTED FOUR GA TICKETS TO nilS SUNDAY'S BASKETBALL GAME. PLEASE HELP A GUY niAT EVERYBODY LOVES ...... BILL WEILER. CALL HIM AT 288-4637 
MARQUETTE TICKETS!!! I NEED 4-6 MARQUETTE GA'S FOR MY FUTURE EMPLOYER THIS FORTUNE 500 COM· PANY HAS PLENTY OF MONEY. CON· TACT GEORGE AT 283· 2094. PLEASE 
HetpiHetp! Desparetly need 1 student or GA Wash.ticket. Cell 3790 and ask for 
Bob. 

............................ WANTED: TICKETS FOR WASH. GAME. BIG$$ CALL STEVE 3457 
NEED2WASH.GA. CALLJ.B 1646 
Needed 2 GA's for Washington game. , Please call Kathy 284-4271 
PERSONALS 
SKI VAIL COLO SPRING BREAK Condo sleeps 41. Ful Kitch. FRPL, Jaccuzi. Pool, LV M56 303-665-2700 
JUNIOR NIGHT AT TIVOLI'S FRIDAY MARCHI! 
Ski Colorlldo 

Spring Break Need skierS to share expenses for condo In Breckenridge. Cynthia 284 -5334 
ST LOUIS-CONNECTICUT-SO CALI­FORNIA CLUBS: HAPPY HOUR AT SENIOR BAR TOMORROW (FRIDAY) 4:30-7:30 QUARTER BEERS!! FRIENDS WELCOME! NEED 21 ID AND $1 COVER CHARGE 
...................... .......................... HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BRIDGET! You don·t look a dey over 22! You are going out. WELL. AREN'T YOU, PUNK?! 
IF YOU'RE BLUE... The Notre Dame Chapel Choir proudly presents A DANCE BACK IN TIME Seturday. March 2, 9:00 
p.m... t :30 a.m. in Chatauqua featuring the Notre Dame Second Jazz Bend-live Admission $1.50 Semiformal attire re­quested. 
Heppy Birthdey to the best sister in the world! And a leap year baby at that. New City isn't that far away so remember I'm thinking of you. Love to all 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . AITN NOTRE DAME MEN: TODAY IS YOUR LUCKY DAY!!!!!! Both Allison Buh· man AND Chris Janicik are 21 today!!! Stop by 243 Lyons or call 2871 to help make their 21 sts the best ever!!! 
,._extnl $$$$for aprlng brMk? We'll pay you to help .,nter the results from our Readership Survey. 
No special skills required. Work on your own time. (Almost) anyone is eligible. 
Interested? Contact Amy Stephan at lhe Observer office (3rd floor of LaFonune) for details. 
Hey. . Have a happy birthday, O.K.? It's about vme you turn 21. Catch you at Sr. 
881. I've been anxiously awaiting an op· portunity to get you drunk and try out a lew choice French phrases ... 
not? 

HeyCaf8 Good luck on Nursing Test II.We know you candoitll Love, The Gang 
ATLANTA RIDER WANTED TO HELP RENT CAR TO ATLANTA FOR BREAK. CALL REG AT 1153 AFTER MIDNITE. 
RIDERS needed to Chicago/Lincoln Park area. Leaving Friday 3/1 and returning Sunday evening. Call Cindy at 284·5098. 
Yo Bill, I'll have to pass on the offer. Love, T 
It's Greg Bower's birthday. and he's waiting for you: at 130 Keenan ... (HEY!) He heard this already; (a sneaky one, too); a birthday message; AND ALSO THE CLUE!! 
...etmerde! 
................................. 

PAT D.: Romance comes and romance goes, but a good dancing pertner is hard to come by. Let's talk--soon, okay? A GIRL NAMED "SAM" 
DAVE from KEENAN call Susan Downes at4406 
................................\ .............. 
Annie. When your ship came in, why did you go to the airport? Come off the power trip, have a journey on my vessel John 
ARE YOU O.C.? (OUT OF CONTROLII) ELECT t!l!RRENT O.C. COMMIB­SIONER TRACY (RACE) .niOMAN FOR ANOniER YEAR OF O.C. FREEDOM I VOTE RACE 3/5/85 
WARD'S WARRIORS .. .WARD'S WAR· RIORS...WARD'S WARRIORS WARD'S WARRIORS.. .WARD'S WAR· RIORS ... WARD'S WARRIORS WARD'S WARRIORS.. .WARD'S WAR· RIORS...WARD'S WARRIORS 
THEY'RE COMING!II!! THEY'RE COM· lNG!!!!! 
AN TOSTAL GENERAL MEETING For anyone cnterested In helping with the week's activities Sunday, March 3 Library Audctori•Jm, 7:15 
................................... Scattered wits take a long time picking up 
HEY cHRis AND Ai:i:iso'Nii...H~py 
Birthday, ya bazoos! We love you and hope your 21 sts are the best ever' Celebrate-you're legal at las I! Love. OW andTC 
niE SUN, niE SNOW, niE NIGHTLIFE, niE MOUNTAINS. SKI niE BEST nilS SPRING BREAK­ASPEN, COLORADO. $397 INCLUDES TRANSPORTATION, 6 DAY UFT PASS, 7 NIGHTS LODGING RIGHT ON niESLOPES! CALLMIKEAT283-3573 FOR INFORMATION OR TO SIGN-UP. 
JOHN TYLER playing at the NAZZ Satur­dey, March 2 at 9pm. 
Need ride or riders to Mobile for break. Share usual. X 1918. 
KATE My favorite flavor ??? How about a date??? ·K.J.G. 
VOTE BEAVER BEAVER BEAVER 
FOR O.C. COMMISIONER 
ROUND TRIP TICKETS FOR SALE­
CHEAPII! 
$178 FROM CHICAGO TO MIAMI FOR 
SPRING BREAK!II CALL DICK OR 
CHRIS AT 2289 OR 2266 NOW 
...................................\ .... 
FEELING TIRED/DRUNK ...FOLLOW 
THE SMOKE TO PRESIDENT'S FREE 
PIZZA, RECTOR APPROVED. HOURS: 
2-SAM DAILY. 
Happy B·Day KERRY REGAN!! We luv U! From3APW 
The~Zip-104 
is the most annoying radio station in the world. 
.......................... HUGH BRESLIN 
It's your BIRTHDAY! At 20 is 15 still the 'ripe' age? Past that ERA. or is protein still a problem? How 'bout those workouts? 
Kev-dog, Thinking of you. Thanks for February!I! K 
SMC Students Join the KOLLMAN GENERATION Applications lor 1985-86 Commissioner positions available today through Thur. March 7 at HCC. 
Rhonda's Captors 
Thou shall not covet 
thy neighbor's reindeer 
No scrubs! Will talk. 
Crime Stoppers 
CARRIE LYNCH • TOOTH CHEWING QUEEN.YOU'VE IMPRESSED THE PSYCHOPATHIC KILLER.HE WANTS TO TAKE YOU OUT.TOO BAD YOU'RE GOING TO CHICAGO FOR THE WEEKEND. 
VIOLETS ARE RED ROSES ARE'BLUE TODAY LAURA FARR TURNS22 OK so I'm not a poet.Heppy Birthday anyway!Love,Mary 
BARB Feticidades You're LEGAL' Saiudos! Maggot 
Dios. Cuida a mis amigos y da les paz. Y ayudame a ser una buena am1ga a enos. Gracias 
DAN FLORIN I had a good time but you left too soon. I'd like to see you again. Your Computer Date 
Hey Denielle. (alias D.B.t)lt's not POSIIi· ble that you are 1/4 of 11 century today is it? For all the MEN out there give my sister a call 5322 and wish he HAPPY BIRTHDAY it will be worth your time, 00 LA LA. Tell her about TOMATOES in dish· wash and ask her where FRED niE BAS· SET Love Deneen (alias D.2) 

RIDE NEEDED -PURDUE UNIVER·X1057. 
SITY Leave Fridey afternoon Please call Tomx3062 
CHICAGO

FOUND: Pair of eyeglasses outside of RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN 
RIDE NEEDED NORTHWEST SUB­
south dcncng hall appeared during lhaw. LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER niURSDAY­
URBS OR O'HARE LEAVING 3·1. WILL
Frame and lenses are in pretty bad condi· MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE 
SHARE EX. 284-4404 
Hon, but could have sentimental value USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
Makes for good "Tootsie" impersonation NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OH thiswhen worn upside down. Call 3828 for 

weekend.
demonstration Cen leave anytime Fnday, March 1. 

Volunt..,.: Elementary & high school Please call Tracy at 284-5185. Will share 
FOUND: L.adtes' watch Call Steph 3468 teachers and student superviSors are 
-
expenses. Thanks. 
needed to work in the Cethofic Missionary Diocese of Prince George, B.C., Canada. 
We ask. ~possible, a 2-year commitment. 
. . .... 

,._TwoRldera to T•mpa!Fort My.,. Room, board. medical coverage andTO WHOMEVER TOOK MY WALLET •-tor Spring B-kl! One way stipend are provcded. For more informa­FROM niE ROCKNE LOCKERS • YOU '-"lng Thul'8dlly or Frtdlty. Call Lfea tion, please contact: Frontier Apostclate, CAN KEEP ANY MONEY IT CONTAINS, or Mel M3716 or 3033 P.O. Box 7000, Prince George, BritishBUT PLEASE RETURN IT TO niE Columbia, V2N 3Z2PM LOST & FOUND OFFICE OR 520 Need riders lo BOSTON. 3-15 toFLANNER. I'D APPRECIATE IT VERY whenever. Cail Tom 1655 SENIOR FORMAL TIX on sale today atMUCH. 
LeFortune and LeMans from 5 to 7 pm. RIDE NEEDED lo MADISON. WI from $56 includes cocktail hour, dinner, andMy Black Beret' My Black Beret! Where 3/1 to 313. Call Jay at 1655. dance.
will I find My Black Beret? To have it back 
Is all that I ask. You know that it was A 

Lou, Deble, •nd Terry
NEED RIDE TO CHI FRI3/1 TO SUN 313 
JAY 1209 "Vrai Basque." Meret Beaucoup' Call You, too. are loved. 
Fred 1636 at 163 Dillon 

RIDE OR RIDERS 
lost: gold necklace with scngle pearl.. 

HEY blond CHEG jr. from BP WhoNeeded to Pitteburgh. Leave 3/1 Sharegreat sentimental value ln. mte at k. of c. 
brun~ed with Acct at JPW, call20971ate expenses. Call Unda 284-5131date nile. please call smc4326 please 
•·················•·••••;•ooo••· 

SEE SURF TONIGHT·-"BIG 
WEDNESDAY"..SHOWING AT 9 & 11 IN A calculator found en Hayes-Healy. If you _I FOR SALE CHATAUQUA lost one call BRUSH to dacm it at 1150. 
.........•............................•..•..•. IOWA IOWA IOWA (Iowa State that is) I LOST: ONE PAIR OF BlACK LEAniER ........................................................... need a ride to that great state with 3 SKI GLOVES BUT I DONT KNOW For Saie:BUNDY ALTO SAX-good con­syllables and only 4 letters in its name. I WHERE. CALL CHRIS IF FOUND AT dition & indestructable-incl accessories-­can leave anytime this Fridey . Call Terri 1150. best offer·-call Rob-3305 at4570. 
Get personal. 
And help fight MS at the same time. 
·r-------·-----1 

For the next week, The Observer 
Coupon

teams up with the "Millions against MS" campaign to raise funds to combat this Place a classifieddisabling neurological disease. 
order by Tuesday,Just use this coupon before March 5th March 5, and receive to save 50 cents on your next classified order ... and better yet, we'll match your 

50¢ off

savings by sending 50 cents to the fight against MS. 
your order. And TheYou save money, and the MS Society Observer will matchbenefits as well. And Notre Dame and your savings andSaint Mary's come a step closer to send soc to the fightwinning an MTV-sponsored concert. 

against MS. Offer ex­Hurry! Offer ends Tuesday. 

pires at 3 p.m. March 5, 1985. Limit: one coupon per order.

~-/.·._m-a. Minimum
__ order:
~ Ihe()bseiWI'­
$1.50. 
L------------...J 

-------------·----­


----------------------~------------------------~-----------------~~----~~------.-------------------------~-------------.--~----~~..~ 
The Observer Thunday, February 28, 1985 -page 11 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 10 
NVA wrestling tournament participants may attend open practice sessions throughout this week from 6:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. in the ACC Pit. A mandatory weigh-in will be held on Sunday from 3 p.m. to S p.m. in the NVA office. Anyone who fails to weigh in and produce insurance information at that time will not be eligible for the tournament. The tournament will be held March S, 7 and I I. -The Observer 
Stepan Center will be closed, starting Satur­day, until Sunday, March I 0, for the Bengal Bouts. ·The Observer 
Percentage of body fat measurements will again be provided free by NVA on Monday from 6:IS p.m. to 8: IS p.m. Anyone who is interested who di~ not have a measurement already should come to the NVA office in shorts and a short-sleeve shirt. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame basketball banquet 
will be held on Monday, March II, at the Athletic and Convocation Center. A cocktail hour begins at 6:30p.m. and the dinner begins at 7:30p.m. Tickets are SI9 each and are available at the Gate I 0 ticket window ofthe ACC. -The Observer 
SMC athletic commissioner applications will be available until Thursday, March 7, at the Saint Mary's student ac­tivities office in the Haggar College Center. All student/athletes are eligible. For more information, contact the student activities office.­The Observer 
The Notre Dame hockey banquet will be held on Tuesday, March S, in the Monogram Room at the ACC. Cock­tails will be served at 6 p.m. and dinner is at 7 p.m. Tickets are S I 0 for Blueline Club members and $II for the general public. Tickets are available at the hockey office in the ACC ( 239-5227).-The Observer 
3700 NCAA tournament tickets for bleacher seats still remain for the first-and second-round games at the ACC on March I4 and I6. The S30 tickets, good for all games, are available at the ACC ticket office. -The Observer 
An aerobiCS inStruCtOr is being sought by NVA for the I98S-86 school year. Anyone who is interested may fill out an application at the NVA office in the ACC. For more information, call 239-6690. -The Observer 
.Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written. -The Observer 

* 
Sunshine Pro111otions presents 

with Special Guest WASP! Saturday, March 23, 8:00 pm Notre Dame A.C. C. KeseJrve:o seats $12.50...Genera1Admission $11.50 
Tickets available at the ACCBox Office, Select Sears, Select Robertson's, Tlae Elkhart Truth• .J.R.'s Music Shop (LaPorte), World Records (Goshen). Music Magic (Benton Harbor), Night Winds...(Mishawaka and Niles). St. .Joseph Bank(Main Office). and Karma Records (Ft. Wayne). 
Tickets on safe tomorrow I
* * 

Owners will show ledgers 
Assoclated Press 
NEW YORK -Citing baseball's "serious financial situation," team owners asked the players for a moratorium on labor negotiations yesterday until the two sides can "discuss the grave economic con­cerns" ofthe game. 
The surprise move could pave the way for the players' union to get its first look at the clubs' financial ledgers. Also, it probably will delay any settlement until after opening day, April 8. 
Lee MacPhail, president of man­agement's Player Relations Commit­tee, said the decision "came after a long discussion about the whole fin­ancial state ofthe industry." 
After a meeting of owners Tues­day in New York, baseball Commissioner Peter Ueberroth em­powered the PRC to require a finan­cial accounting from all teams if it became necessary in negotiations. 
Owners have refused in the past to open their books to players. Labor law, however, requires management to show proof of financial problems ifpoverty is used as a tool in negotia­tions. 
Ueberroth said that MacPhail, PRC counsel Barry Rona, union head Don Fehr and Marvin Miller, the former union leader acting as special adviser to Fehr, were responsible for any decisions regarding the release offinancial information. 
And, the commissioner said, "if those two parties said that was what was needed to get the job done, I would see to it that they got what they needed." 
A negotiating session for today was cancelled, and the PRC said the two sides would not meet again on March S in West Palm Beach, Fla. 
For nearly four months, the two sides had been negotiating rather smoothly toward a contract to replace the one that expired on Dec. 3I. Owners and the union wanted to have a new agreement by opening day, and that appeared to be a real possibility until now. 
The union has asked for sweeping changes in the free agency system, particularly in the re-entry draft, and also was prepared to request that a percentage of baseball's television revenue be applied toward the union's benefits plan. 
GUADALAJARA 



SUMMER 
SCHOOL University of Arizona of­fers more than 40 courses: anthropology, art, bilingu­al education, folk music and folk dance, history, political science, sociol­ogy, Spanish language and literature and inten­sive Spanish. Six-week session. July 1-August 9, 1985. Fully accredited pro­gram. Tuition $440. Room and board in Mexican home, $460. 
EEO/AA 
.-­
Write Guadalajara Summer School Robert L Nugent 205 University of Arizona Tucson 85721 (602) 621-4729 or 621-4720 

The Observer Thtmrlay, February 28, 1985 -page 12 
All-around senior 

Suess plays several roles for SMC 
two basketball invitational tourna­
ment all-star teams her sophomore 
year. She received the Saint Mary's 
Coaches' Award for the 1983-84 
season and also was named to the all· 
tourney team at Saint Mary's annual 
Roundball Classic that year. 
As a freshman she also earned the 
Saint Mary's Coaches' Award for 
softball. 
When Suess was considering col­
leges, basketball was definitely in 
the back ofher mind. 
"I went to basketball camp at 
Notre Dame my senior year and the 
Saint Mary's coach talked to me. 
"I like Saint Mary's because it's 
small and I can really become in­
volved in a diverse amount ofthings. 
Being in sports has actually im­
proved my grades because I have to 
be organized when involved in dif­
ferent activities." 
Off the court and field, Suess has made many contributions to the Saint Mary's community. She has been in charge of the Adopt-a-Nun program for the past three years and also is co-coordinator of photogra­phy for the Saint Mary's yearbook this year. 

Presently, she coordinates the Sports Information Department, which works closely with the Col­lege's Public Relations Department. Suess said she sees this department as a positive step for Saint Mary's in the promotion of Its athletic pro­grams. 
In an effort to facilitate better communication between varsity and non-varsity athletes and be­tween the athletic and school ad­ministrations, Suess also helped to organize the newly founded Athletic Council, on which she serves as a basketball team representative. 
On the basketball court Suess 
noticed her team's own lack ofcom­
munication. 
"One ofthe big things teams have 
to do when losing is communicate, 
and for a while we were not commu­
nicating as a team," she explains. 
"But I think that when we realized it 
was causing a problem, we began to 
communicate better and played bet­
ter." 
Wood emphasizes Suess' past ex­perience as being influential on a team comprised mostly of under­classmen. 
"One thing that must be noted," commented Wood, "is that Elaine is a natural leader. She sees things that need to be done, takes hold of them and gets things done." 
Sophomore guard Mariclaire Dris­
coll agreed with Wood. 
"She's a good leader and has helped me personally as far as en­couraging me and giving me confi­dence," said Driscoll. "She tells me what I do wrong, but in a positive way." 
Although Saint Mary's record was disappointing this season, Suess said she is grateful for first-year coach Wood's efforts. 
"I appreciate his enthusiasm for the program," she said. "Even If we weren't doing well he tried not to let us get discouraged. He was very pos­itive toward the team, which was needed." 
Wood assessed the senior player in one statement. "She doesn't have a large frame but plays with a lot ofheart," he said. 
Good things do come in small packages, and Saint Mary's has benefited greatly from Elaine Suess' four years of contributions in aU aspects of the College community. 



ByKELLYPORTOLESE 
Sports Writer 
Although the 4-16 Saint Mary's basketball team may hav~ wished for a slightly better final season record, It does have a lot to be proud of ­nam~ly senior Elaine Su~ss. for all that sh~ has contributed to the team and to her school. 
When one speaks of a model stu­dent/athlete, the Grand Blanc, Mich., native Immediately comes to mind in Saint Mary's athletic circles. 
Suess, an English major, has per­formed the rare task of playing both varsity basketball and varsity softball for four years. She also helped coor­dinate the College's Athletic Coun­cil and Sports Information Program. 
Head basketball coach Marvin Wood has nothing but praise for the '5·5 senior on the court. 
"Elaine has made a strong contri­bution to the basketball program," said Wood. "She is also very unsel­fish on the court." 
Due to various circumstances on past Saint Mary's teams, Suess has been asked to play at a number of positions and has gracefully ac­cepted the challenges. 
"I had played guard all my life, In­cluding my freshman year at Saint Mary's," said the dual sport star. "During my sophomore year the starting point guard left and I took over In a position I had never played before. Then due to a lack of height (on the team) In my junior year I had to play center/forward. And I played forward again this year." 
Her versatility along with her con­cern for team play allowed Suess to make the smooth transitions. 
"I had good fundamentals and was able to move where Coach wanted me to play," she said. "Looking back, I see Icontributed in an area where I was needed most." 
And Wood appreciated the cooperation ofSuess. 
"Elaine is probably a natural guard, size and ability-wise. It (switching positions) is harder than most people think. You see the game from a different perspective." 
Wood credits Suess with excel­lent outside shooting, strong defen· sive play and the ability to make g<x>d assists. But Suess has no doubts concerning her favorite aspect of the game. 
"I love to pass," says the 22-year· old, who handed out 60 assists this season. "There is not a better feeling than when you make a perfect pass and a teammate grabs it and scores for two. 
"I don't think scoring points is al­ways the most important part of the game," adds Suess, who also re· corded 29 steals during the season. "There are so many different facets. Playing good defense is one of the hardest because you've really got to work." 
Not only did Suess dish off 60 as­sists and grab 29 steals this season, but she also pulled down 60 r~bounds and had 167 total points on 60-of-144 shooting from the field. She also shot 68 percent from the free-throw line. 
Over the years, Suess has been rewarded well for her athletic en­deavors. At Grand Blanc Community High School, she was named Woman Athlete of the Year, while serving as captain on both the basketball and softball teams her senior year. 
At Saint Mary's, she was named to 
Learn the facts about cancer. 
And make not knowing the risks, one less risk. 

"Happy 21st Mark Irving !! 

I,---------------~\
I I
$1.00 OFF COUPON 
I I I 
I
I 
Serving Mexican & South Bend I
I 
American Food (just north past toll road) I
I 
I EXPIRES March 7, 1985 I I 
\ I 
~---------------' 
BONITA'S GIANT 1 WET BURRITO $3.50 1 

I 
~~~t 1 
available on 1 allitems I 
I 
277-5990 I I 
open 11:00-11:00 1 daily 1I 
146 Dixieway S. I 


~--~~-----·~ -~---~ -----··-·.------·----~-~------~·--~­
The Observer Thunday, February28, 1985-page 13 


Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 
..CJ'Qowe~t<J fp~ aQQ occagio"g~~ 
Come in and Browse 327lincolnway .231-3354 
t NICK&* ~ 
iC ... iC 
~ KENNY'S ~ 
iC iC ~ THURS: 25~ BEERS ~ iC FRI: Music by LAKE EFFECT ~ ~ 75~ mixed drinks iC ~ Come by early and beatthe crowds ! ~ 
Ir----------------•
Natre Dame I I Avenue I I Apartments I 
I I 
I Apartments Available for I I Summer Months I I I
1 Call office 3-6 p.m. daily 1 I 234-6647 1 
~----------------· 

SUNDAY­

ALL YOU CAN EAT COUNTRY FRIED CHICKEN $4.50 
THURS. 11:30-2 P.M. I 5:30-8 P.M. 
MEXICAN BUFFET 
$4.95 

INCLUDES TACOS, BURRITOS, ENCHILADAS, • CHIPS & SALSA I TOSTADAS & MORE! WITH $1.00 MARGARITAS 
HAPPY HOUR PARTY 
3:00 to 6:00 P.M. $1.00 COCKTAILS/ .50¢ DRAFTS 
cttEE POPCORN I Plf££ 
~ CHIPS & SALSA I NACHOS I TACOS I PIZZA I MEATBALLS I CHICKEN 
WINGS & MORE! 

No grudge against Knight 
Steve Alford says he feels tired 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indian;1's Steve Alford doesn't feel intimidated by his volatile coach, Bob Knight, but the Hoosiers' starguard admits he's a tired basketball player and looks for­ward to a less hectic schedule oflif­ting weights this summer. 
Alford, the team scoring leader and Most Valuable Player as a fresh­man last year, has been in a two­week slump he says has been "probably the toughest in my career." 
A 20-point, 60-percent shooter from the field most ofthe season, AI­
ford's recent games have been a nightmare. In two losses last week, he hit onlysix of26 shots and scored a total of 14 points. And his personal slump has coincided with the Hoosiers' slide as a team, now 6-8 in the Big Ten and 14-10 for all games. 
"I don't really have much of an idea (ofthe reason). That's the prob­lem we're having," the 6-foot-2 sophomore said in a telephone inter­view from Bloomington. "The players are disappointed, and the coaches have the same feeling. We as players feel we're working as hard as we have in the past, but we haven't come up with a solution. 

Scholastic Magazine is now ~ accepting applicationsfor thefollowing positions: 
• 
News Editor • Fiction Editor 

• 
Sports Editor * Advertising Editor 

• 
Features Editor * Distribution Manager 


Applications due Friday, March 1 and are available at the Scholastic Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune 
rf111111MHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII, 
JOIN THE 

Kollman Generation 
Student Body Commissioner applications will be available thru March 7th at Haggar College Center 
Sign up for an interview 
li................................................................................................i 
Senior Pre-Spring Break Cocktail Party 
THURSDAY FEB. 28th 9:00pm -1:00am ACC Monogram Room Proceeds to MS 
That's been our problem lately." 
Indiana has lost seven of its past 1 0 games. In Saturday's loss to Purdue, Knight was ejected five minutes into the game after receiv· ing three technical fouls and hurling a chair across the court. 
"I didn't see any ofit," Alford said ofthe incident with the chair. "I was as upset (with the official's call that led to Knight's outburst) as anybody. The officiating has been poor, and it's been frustrating. 
"He's sorry, and he apologized," Alford said of Knight. "What more can I say. There's just no better man in the business than him." 
Men 
continuedfrom page 16 
Teaming up with Fitzgerald is 6-1 senior Mike. Burt. A transfer from South Georgia Junior College, Burt contributes 6. 5 points to· the Bul­ldog effort to go with 68 assists. 
Receiving the call often at third guard is senior Gave Gilbreth. A good outside shooter, Gilbreth averages 6. 5 points and has totalled 45 assists. 
In the Bulldogs' first basketball game in Hinkle Fieldhouse, in 1928, they defeated Notre Dame, 21-13, in overtime. 
This time around, the Irish will have to score a few more points if they hope to leave the unfriendly confines of the Fieldhouse with a victory. 
Swimming 
continuedfrom page 16 
"Our hard work is behind us now," said Stark. "We're in a taper­ing situation right now so we're not too tired and if we're not too tired, we should improve our times." 
Since the Irish have not competed since the North Star Conference Championship meet, they will be rested and well-trained going into today's competition. While winning the championship would be the icing on Notre Dame's season, the Irish will be pleased iftheycan attain some personal best finishes. 
Women 
continuedfrom page 16 
fective player. She's also a very good penetrator." 
Rounding out the core of the But­ler attack is 5-4 freshman guard Denise Walters, 5-9 freshman for­
. ward Pam Schiefelbein, and 5-8 for­ward Christie Essington. Schiefelbein and Essington, who average 12 ppg. and 1 0 rpg. between them, should be keys to the contest, since Butler will need a strong rebounding effort to keep the Irish from controlling the game. 
"We have to use our height advan­tage on the boards," notes DiStanis­Jao. "They are not a really deep team. Basically, we just have to play good, solid, fundamental basketball." 
Despite a recent abundance of turnovers, the Irish should be able to play their solid, fundamental game. Junior guard Trena Keys has taken over the scoring role for the team, as she averages 17.8 ppg., while 6-0 for­ward Mary Beth Schueth and 6-2 center Sandy Botham provide a for­midable inside game. 
In brief, the Irish should win this one; unless, of course, they are looking ahead to their next game against Evansville. 
"A good team does not look ahead past anyone," says DiStanislao. "They better not be looking past this one." 
Ifthe Irish can last long enough to tame the Lady Bulldogs, they will be able to enjoy a breather from heavy competition. 
~---------~-----~------.---·---~-~ 
The Observer Thunday, February 28, 1985-page 14 
From wrestling family 
Ken Kasler impresses in first year 
By BRIAN McCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Wrestling Pro­
gram is having a good season and 
one of the reasons has been the 
strong performance by underclas­
smen, including freshman Ken Kas­
ler. 
A 16-4 victory over his Marquette 
opponent last week put the finishing 
touch on a 17-12 regular-season 
record and gives Kasler momentum 
heading into the NCAA regionals In 
Des Moines, Iowa, this weekend. 
Success Is not new for Kasler, who compiled a 71-9-2 record at North Olmsted High School in North Olmsted, Ohio, on the western edge of Cleveland. Serving as team cap­tain both his junior and senior years, Kasler was a three-time conference champion, regional champion and a third-place finisher in the state as a senior. 
Kasler's wrestling career began at age six, inspired by his father, who was a high school wrestling coach. An interest In wrestling appears to be a common trait in the Kasler fam­ily. 
"My dad wrestled, my brother wrestles, I wrestle, my mom follows wrestling." says Kasler. "In fact, they've been to quite a few matches this year." 
During his senior year in high school, Kasler expressed interest in Notre Dame before he was recruited by Irish head coach Fran McCann. Since McCann was not hired until late In the school year, he did not contact Kasler until after he had been accepted. The reputation of the North Olmsted program con­vinced McCann that Kasler was a quality wrestler. 
"We didn't know him too well," says McCann. "Ken's interest in us came first. We based our judgement on his high school program." 

~ir~f -~~­
Ken Kasler 
Kasler took his first semester of college in stride, at least in the class­room, but he found the college wrestler provided much more of a challenge than the average high school wrestler. 
"The college wrestler is a lot more physical," says Kasler. "You see bet­ter competition every time out." 
Kasler did not know how he would fare once he arrived at Notre Dame, but he was optimistic. 
"I wasn't sure how I would do," says Kasler. "I thought I could do all right. I didn't really know what to expect." 
As his first season nears the end, Kasler's contribution to the team has been more than can usually be ex­pected from a freshman. Even though he had good coachingbefore arriving at Notre Dame, Kasler praises McCann and assistant coach John Azevedo for improving his style tremendously. 
"There's definitely a difference between college coaching and high school coaching," says Kasler. "Coach McCann and coach Azevedo have shown me a lot about tech­nique; coming out from underneath, escaping." 
The effect of the Irish coaching staff on Kasler's wrestling has been evident as the 158-pounder im­proved tlu-oughout the year. McCann sees one of Kasler's attri­butes as his ability to recognize his strengths and weaknesses. 
"Ken utilizes his strengths and does what he has to do to win," says McCann. 
McCann describes Kasler's best assets as his slickness and intelli· gence. Kasler said he plans on using his talents as best he can in the next three years. 
"I'm definitely setting my goals pretty high for the next few years," say Kasler. "With this program and the coaches and the guys were bringing in I'm looking forward to it." 
The goals for the Notre Dame wrestling program also are high for the coming years and it appears Ken Kasler will be a great aid in helping the team meet those goals. 

y\OI~~~~e1 "ele SPRING BREAK IS NEARII This year tan, don't burn; prepare your skin at J MS. Plaza1M-HAWA1&N 4609 Grope Rood sun ronn1ng solon Mishawaka, IN277-7026 Can't go to Florida? Get a tan anyway in our booth, beds, or bothe  

WEEK-END SPECIALS: THURS: "Can Night" 75c Free pizza 11-1 am 
FBI: Old Style Pitcher $2.75 KAMIKAZE£ 25tIshot 
SAT: Gin & Tonic 75c SNAKE BITE 25tIshot 
Starting Monday, Mexican Night Happy Hours daily: 11-on ... 
Interhall 
continuedfrom page 16 
quick enough against their zone (In 
the first quarter) and we forced 
some bad shots from the outside," 
said O'Malley. "In thefourth quarter, 
though, our defense was great. we 
got our heads up and moved our 
feet. Tough defense was definately 
the key to our comeback." 
In the second game, second· 
ranked Pasquerilla East clashed with 
third-ranked Farley. Both teams en· 
tered the game with 8-2 records. 
Play was very sloppy early on, and 
the referees called a number offouls on both teams. P-E took advantage of the situation by passing inside to Reggie Richter. Richter went to the foul line repeatedly during the first half. Farley relied on the outside shooting of Mary Borkowski, along with an occasional basket by Julie Pietras. At half, P-E led, 16-13. 

The plethora ot fouls continued in the second half. However, the tables were turned on P-E as Richter col­lected her fourth foul early in the third quarter and then fouled out only a minute into the fourth quae­ter. Meanwhile, Borkowski, Pietras, and Marilu Almeida were helping Farley take the lead. Entering the fourth quarter, Farley was up, 23·21. 

. ·• 

The game see-sawed back and forth the rest of the way. With 30 seconds left, Farley had the ball, trailing 28-27. But Borkowski missed two IS-foot jumpers and P-E hung on to win with aslim one-point margin. 
P-E must now play B-P on Sunday at 6 p.m. Farley and Walsh drop into the losers' bracket and play at 7 p.m. on Sunday. 
MR. D's 
/\.:.6~

1516 N. Ironwood 
N 
JO!nl"l Delaere

South Bend 233-7747 
OPEN ONSUNDAYS 

....----------~--~­
T0 day______________
Th_unrlay,Feb_ruary 2s_,_19_ss_-_page 1s 
BloootCounty 
''VISit CIJI.i.ltr Y'AI.L 6Qr A 
·p_ OPtJS" ~5 ? IER€'80tff5 '?
I .....,",___ 
Zeto 

GarryTrudeau 
Ye'5, 5/R. ANPIUHAT5
ca.JW '!OU 7fU. 
IT'5 8tZN 7H£~lY7111N6
TH/5 COMM/7"'/E& 
IN MYfAMilY NOIU§lANiliNG
JUST ;aui1N3 
FOR 7H!?E& 8C'IWC&N YOU
7HATFMMHA5 
GENE/?A710N5. ANP 7He ENO
8lfi3N IN YOUR 
I a= YOUR WAY
MMilY? ~ 
OFliF£? 
.........____ 
Berke Breathed 

1H€a'80Y 
~€K'€EilEP Hf5 CKeP/1W~ UM!f. M A--clJMG 
MAYa€. FEl( H/5 51</N. ~y? \ 
Kevin Walsh 
loe, Aeel, toe, 

neeC-toe, -toe ... No. \Wail... Toe, heeL h<?e/... ( :Dang! T -tJ.,.nJr I just 
~asTe.:J fif.'fy buCKs. 
-(.)=) ..) 





The Daily Crossword 
22 Cudgel 
ACROSS  37 Traveling  64 Label again  18 Green parrot  
first class?  65 Cravings  19 Container  
1 Verve 5 Catkin 1 0 Church section 14 Rounded part 15 Pep 16 Gold oflsr. 17 Making a name In athletics 20 Supplication 21 Rialto  40 Nitwit 41 Villain's expression 42 Murray or West 43 Adult pike 44 Dancer Shearer 45 Backtalk 46 -Jacinto 47 Macerate 49 Visitors  DOWN 1 Eur. river 2 Desolate 3 Help a crook 4 Close 5 Flying 6 Aromatic herb 7 Like omelets 8 Partnerof  23 Probing one 24 Decay 25 Follower of a certain religion 26 Garret 28 Johnny or Kit 29 Qom native 30 Vehicle 31 Camel's kin  
53 Easyto  neither  32 Assumed name  

understand 33 Units of force 23 Puton 
58 On a pedestal 35 Coterie
9 Shiver
24 OneHoss­
of sorts 36 Boat: abbr. 
10 Cupid27 More frosty 
60 Portico 38 Garden tool 
11 -up(make30 Garbed 
61 -blue

34 Excavation jaunty) 39 Lasting from 
62 Tarkenton of Jan. to Dec. 35 Tangle football 12 Border 1t4 Libertine's 36 Clever remark 63 Chin. club 13 Formerly once relative 45 Pompous 53 Map 46 Sault -Marie 54 -Kazan 
48 Fairy 55 Concern
49 Pith 56"-Old Cow· 50 "Do-others...". hand" 51 Jacket 57 Rec rooms 52 Matted hair 59 Devoured 
·Wed.nesjay's Solution 

SPATIRIOT ATLAS
P I N A 0 G R E D W E L T 
A L I T Y 0 G A V E N A L ROSEM~ INTRO 
S T E R 0 L EAST­
R E A L P E Y T 0 N ARENIA L~VE.TOGO 
R A D 0 N 0 R E S W A L E AMIR.LE~A LODES 
B A T T L E E L B A 

1-H E R :Qi!lll.lL Y C E U M SHAWN INVIiiBLE



WAXES FEAT NONO 
A R I S E L A S H C L A W 
P E L T S E T T E H I S S 
Campus . 
•4:30 
p.m. · Biology Seminar, "Ecological Im­plications of llie in a Three-Dimensional Viscous Environment," Dr. jeroen Gerritsen, University of Georgia, Room I 0 I Galvin . 

•5 
· 7 p.m. · Seilior Fonnal Registration, LaFortune and LeMans, $56. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m. & I2 a.m.· FUm, "The Natural," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 

•7 
p.m. · Movie a: Discussion, "Los Pasaran," Claude Pomerleau, Room I24 CSC, Sponsored by SOLA, Free. 

•7 
p.m. · Discussion, "Labor in Latin America," Room I3I Decio, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 

•7 
p.m. ·Thursday Night FUm Series, "Native Land," O'Shaughnessy Loft. 


' e7 p.m. · Basketball, ND Women vs. Butler, ACC Arena. 
•
7:45 p.m. · Meeting, Fellowship ofChristian Ath· letes, CSC, All Are Welcome. 

•8 
p.m. · Concert, ND Chamber Orchestra, Sacred Heart Church. 

•8 
p.m. · Lecture, Howard Nemerov, Poet, Author, and Mallincrodt Professor of English, Washington University, St. Louis, library Auditorium, Sponsored by Sophomore Uterary Festival. 

•9 
p:m. · I a.m. · Seilior Cocktail Party, ACC Monogram Room, Proceeds Go To MS Campaign, $3. 

•9 
· I0:30 p.m.·Jazz Concert, "Jazz at the Nazz," Notre Damejazz Band, The Nazz, Free. 

•9 
& II p.m. · Mo'rie, "Big Wednesday," Chatau­qua Ballroom, Sponsored by Southern California Club, Free to Everyone. 


TV Tonight 
8:00p.m. 16 Bill Cosby Show 22 Magnum, PI 28 Solid Gold Countdown 34 34 Front 
8:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 
9:00p.m. 16 Cheers 22 Simon & Simon 34 Mystery 
9:30p.m. 16 Night Court 22 WKRP in Cincinnati 
10:00p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots landing 28 20/20 34 Masterpiece Theatre 

©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
2/28/85

All Rights Reserved 

. ' 

NEW HOURS 
3:00 to 7:00pm 
• 

2nd Floor LaFortune, Room 2-C, off Chatauqua Ballroom 

Tht.mrlay, February 28; 1985 -page 16
S~orts 
Irish men travel to Butler to take on Bulldogs tonight 
Sophomore Mike Harper back.~ up

points per game (first on the team), and is second on the squad with 6.0 Haseley in the middle. Harper, also
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
6-8, adds strength to the Bulldogs' frontcourt. 

rebounds per game. 
Riding a winning streak of three Tucker has led Butler in scoring games, the Notre Dame men's bas­thirteen times this season, with his Although lacking in height over: ketball team will travel to In­high of 33 points coming in a game all, Butler has bet~n able to out­dianapolis tonight to take on the 
against Ball State. rebound its opponems by a margin Bulldogs of Butler University. Starting at the opposite forward of 31.8 to 30.8, a fat~t that can not be will be another sophomore, 6-4 taken lightly by an Irish front line
The Irish will square off against the Bulldogs at 7:35 p.m. at Hinkle Tony Gallahar. Gallahar, a transfer that has had trouble rebounding ·at Fieldhouse. a house of horrors for times lately.
from Texas-San Antonio, scores at a many visiting teams in the past. 9.1 clip and contributes 4.7 At the guard position, the Bul· 
Butler is 32-8 on its home court rebounds per game !dogs are led by sophomore sensa· over the past two years, with 12 of Backing up Tucker and Gallahar tion Darrin Fitzgerald. Only S-9, those victories coming this year. are two newcomers to the Bulldogs. Fitzgerald has improved over an out­
The Irish, with a record of I 7-7, Aaron Hoover, a junior transfer from standing freshman year la~t seao;<m. know they can not become another Modesto Junior College in Califor­casualty of the Fieldhouse if they ' nia, and Johnny Jones, a freshman Fitzgerald owns an excellent hope to continue on the road tO an from Gary, Ind., have filled in outside shooting touch, one of the NCAA Tournament bid. sparingly and have added about two main reasons he has been able to 
"We come into the week with the points and two rebounds per game average I S.8 points per game. An ex­best record ofall the independents," between them. cellent passer. Fitzgerald leads the says Irish head coach Digger Phelps, At center, the Bulldogs start 6-8 team with 100 assists and 47 steals. 
"so we can control our own destiny senior Tim Haseley. Haseley leads His quickness and jumping ability to a great extent over the last two the team in rebounding, collecting should test David Rivers of the Irish. weeks of the regular season." 7.2 per game. He also chips in with 
see MEN, page 13

But before they can concentrate 8. I points per game. on Sunday's game with Washington or on next week's crucial contests 
~ Oblc:rvcr/Chaitanya Panchal 

Women's swimming team 
with Marquette and Dayton, the juniorLynn Ebben, sbown bere in tbeACC In a game earlier this Irish will have to get past the Bul­season against Evansville, will be In the ACC again tonight as the ldogs, who enter the matchup with a 
ends season at Midwest meet 
Irish take on the Butler Lady Bulldogs. Notre Dame can raise tts 17-8 record. record to 17-8 overalland 10-1 in theNorth StarConference with a Head coachJoe Sexson's Bulldogs By MARY SIEGER University and the University of win over the struggling Bulldogs. Marty Burns previews the game are led by sophomore Chad Tucker. Western Michigan round out the
Sports Writer in his story below. The 6-6 forward averages 20.4 field of teams looking to unseat Illi· Finally, the end is in sight for the nois State this weekend. 
Notre Dame women's swim team. "If the girls get their best times, The Irish start swimming their then we'll have an improved situa­1985 season finale this afternoon in tion from last year," said Stark. "It all 
North Star game 

Chicago as the team races 12 Mid­depends on how much stronger the 
western schools for the title in the other teams are over last year. Our By MAR1Y BURNS in five nights," says Irish head coach "In fact," DiStanislao continues, Founh Annual Midwest Indepen­depth indicates we should do bet­Sports Writer Mary DiStanislao. "Plus, you get "she was the only one to score in dent Championship Meet. ter." 
everybody's best shot when you're double figures." "This is our top meet ofthe season "Hopefully, we'll move up to the On a pace more befitting an NBA at the top." be~ause it will have our toughest top four," said Cochiolo. "Since 
ND women play host to Butler 
In that game, which was played

franchise, the Notre Dame women's Fonunately for the Irish, Butler's competition," explained Notre there is more competition, it will be 
Jan. 30 in Indianapolis, Butler

basketball team will attempt to clear "best shot" has not been falling this Dame head coach Dennis Stark. "It's more intense and that always makes 
managed to stay even with the Irish

another conference hurdle tonight, season. First-year head coach Russ a larger meet with some more estab­times go down a lot." 
for much of the first half mostly

as it entenains the Lady Bulldogs of Sarfaty's squad has had greater suc­lished teams, so it will be tougher." Notre Dame's top I 5 swimmers 
through the efforts of Morris, who

Butler University at 7 p.m. at the cess than last year's 2-20 team, but For some seniors, this weekend's travelled to the University ofIllinois­
ended up with 22 points on the eve­

ACC. the Lady Bulldog's first year in the gruelling three-day meet will be Chicago yesterday afternoon and 
ning. Notre Dame, however, was

The Irish, who so far have handled NSC has been a disappointment. their farewell to competitive swim­Stark said he hopes each ofthem will 
able to run off the last 11 points of

the pressure of a conference race One player who has not been a ming. For other members of the pull through for the team over the 
the half to stake a 29-18 halftime

like professionals, enter the disappointment for the Lady Bul­team, it is their last chance to ac­next three days.
lead, and, finally, to blow the game

homestretch 16-8 on the season. ldogs, though, is center Sue Morris. heive their fastest times of the year "Since scoring comes in the finals, 
open in the second half, 79-40. 

Notre Dame Is 9-1 and on top in the The 5·1 I senior is ranked near the and possibly qualify fur the NCAA we want as many girls as possible to Nonh Star Conference. Butler, on top of the conference in many DiVision I National Championships. qualify for the finals," said Stark. "I 
Another key element in that game,

the other hand, will come in with a statistical categories, including "We're not concentrating on the hope they all can score." 
and in Butler's attack this season, has

4-20 slate on the season, and a last­scoring, as she leads the Lady Bul­team," said Irish co-captain Venette Notre Dame dives into today'sbeen freshman guard Melissa
place 1·9 in the conference. ldogs with an 18.1 points-per-game Cochiolo. "We'll concentrate on in· meet with an impressive 1 1-1 season. Kilgore. The 5-8 floor captain is
When you are at the top of the average, and a 7.1 rebounds-per­dividual performances." dual meet record. Earlier this year, averaging 9.5 ppg. for her team, and
heap, however, everyone is looking game standard. Notre Dame grabbed sixth place the Irish dominated the first annual 
is counted on by her teammates to

to shoot you down. And with the "Most of their offensive story is in last season's championship meet Notre Dame Relays in preseason set the offense in motion.
number of games the Irish have Sue Morris," says DiStanislao. "She is and the Irish plan to improve their competition and two weeks ago, the played lately, they will be, at least in their tallest starter at 5-1 I. She is "Melissa Kilgore is their floor final standing this year. team claimed its second con­the Bulldogs' hopes, prime for the very strong, and she has a very good leader," notes DiStanislao. "Aside Defending champion Illinois State secutive North Star Conference picking. touch at the perimeter. She was from Sue Morris, she's their most ef-will fight to retain its title and will championship in Saint Louis. 
"The toughest thing about this really able to hun us in our last provide the Irish with their quickestsee WOMEN, page 13
game is that It will be our third game game. competition. Nonhern Michigan see SWIMMING, page 13 
B-P and P-E advance in women's interhall playoffs 
defense and then pounding the baskets. B-P looked ripe for an
By MICHAEL FLANNERY B-P (31)
offensive boards. Laura Gleason upset. Walsh seemed ready to do
Sports Writer 

did most ofthe dama~e. the honors. But it was not to be. B-P
The women's interhall basket­B-P, on the other hand, seemed 
clamped down on defense with

ball playoffs got underway with to be in a fog. On defen~. B-Pwas 
some fierce man-to-man pressure

two games at the ACC last night. sluggish at best. On offense, they 
and Walsh's ballhandlers

The playoff format calls for the were stymied by Walsh's 3-2 
crumbled under it. Turnover

four top regular-season finishers zone, which forced their guards 
after turnover down the stretch

to compete In a double­beyond normal shooting range. 
led to easy layups; slowly, B-P

elimination tournament. Put B-P fired up several 20-foot 
clawed its way into striking dis­

simply, if you lose twice in the bricks, anyway. 
tance.

playoffs, you're history. The second quarter saw B-P 
With a minute left, Ann Curoe
gain ground with the help ofa 2·3

The first game of the evening picked off a pass and fed Lisa 
zone. Walsh lacked good bal­pitted top-rated Breen-Phillips 
Brown for the winning basket. It
lhandlers and couldn't find any

against founh-rated Walsh. B-P was Farley (27)
also B-P's first lead ·of the
pockets in B-P's defense.

finished the regular season with a game. Two Curoe foul shots iced
However, B-P remained cold

,... 
perfect 10·0 record. Walsh came a 31-28 victory. Walsh
from the perimeter and the half
In at 8-2. 
8-P coach Fran O'Malley com­
ended with Walsh leading, 14-10. 
Walsh was the clear aggressor 
mented on his team's slow start 
Sunday

at the outset of the game. Walsh Walsh's Mary Langer caught and fast finish. jumped out to a 12-5 first-quaner fire in the third period. In "We weren't moving the ball lead, patiently working the ball celebration of her twenty-first Farley 
?p.m. 
see INTERHALL, page 14

inside against B-P's man-to-man birthday, she sank four strai¢lt 







