
-~ ­
Tobacco company sued-page 3 
VOL XX, NO. SS WEDNE8DAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1985 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame Security not alone on football Saturdays 
This is the first part of a three­officials helps "provide the very In the stadium, he said, the 60 

County Police 
article series examining security best protection for fans." South Bend and St. Joseph County 
30
at Notre Dame home football The effort on game day In and officers are responsible for a "ton games. Today's story examines the around the stadium includes 30 of things." Before the game, they structural design of tbe security 
patrol the gates and walkways; system. It explains who coor­during, the force concentrates on
Home Game 
dinates security a·nd patrols the crowd behavior. They assist the 
St. Joseph 
Notre Dame campus on a football 400 ushers hired by the Athletic
Security Posse
Saturday. Department. 
12
"Most of law enforcement work · 
By BOB MUSSELMAN is mundane. It's not Adam-12," 
SentorStaffReporter University security personnel, 30 Rakow said. Mundane at the 
St. joseph County Police officers, stadium means breaking up fights, 
For Notre Dame Security, a foot­30 South Bend Police officers, six directing lost people, responding ball game boils down to one groups of two horse-mounted to medical emergencies and ominous fact -the campus' normal patrols and 12 reserve officers, all keeping fans off the field. He es­City Pollee population of 12,000 bulges to of whom are payed by the Univer­timated that between 95 and 98 NO Security around 60,000 literally overnight. sity. percent of what his force does is 
30 
"There aren't many cities that do On the roads leading to and from "service related. • that," said Rex Rakow, dlrector.of the campus, Rakow said, state, city All the city and county officers, Notre Dame Security. and county officers patrol intersec­though off duty, are able to make 
Unlv~rslty security doesn't tions and implement the complex arrests. Detained individuals are handle the influx alone. A complex traffic plan. These officers are paid placed in a holding cell near gate Security Personnel In And Around arrangement of city, county, state by the their individual depart­s~ ~tCURITY, page 4 
Stadium On Football Saturdays 
and Notre Dame law enforcement ments. 
Survey on cheating to be given to students 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
StaffReporter 
A survey to assess academic 
honesty at Notre Dame will be taken 
among all students, according to 
Earl Baker in an address to the Hall 
Presidents' Council last night. 
Baker, student government academic commissioner, said the survey would be used to provide student input for a committee designed by the Academic Council of the University to investigate this issue. 
According to Baker, input has al­ready been gathered from resident assistants and those in student government. The committee, however, hopes that through a more broader-based, objective survey, a greater sampling could be made and could provide a better idea of the 
ls.~ue. 
The survey Itself would be 
designed to discover if cheating 
does exist at Notre Dame, and if It 
does, to what extent it exists, what 
forms are most common, and what 
factors may promote it. 
The survey will be presented to 
the academic commissioners of 
each dorm during a December 4 
meeting with Baker. Despite con­
cern about the outcome of the sur­
vey, Baker believes it will benefit the 
University overall. 
The Hall Presidents' Council was also presented with a plan to es­tablish a Progressive Student Al­liance by the student government. 
According to Mike Millen, an executive coordinator in student government, the purpose of this al­liance would be to provide the "average student" with a medium through which he or she could present ld~as and have them recognized. 
"What PSA addresses is the av~rage student who has an idea," explain~d Millen. "Many students have an Idea which, if It got to the right place, could make a change." 
According to Millen, students may. 
see SURVEY, page 3 

'New Beginning' ends; senate easily survives vote on disbandment 
By SCOTI BEARBY 
AssistantNews Edttor 
The Student Senate's battle to 
remain in existence ended success­
fully as students overwhelmingly 
voted against a proposal which 
would have disbanded the body. 
According to Ombudsman figures, only 41 percent cast a ballot in favor ofthe proposal which called for disbanding the senate and focus· ing on the Hall Presidents' Council and Campus Life Council bodies. A 2/3 majority was needed for the amendment to pass. 
Of those who were not in favor of the proposal, 57~2 percent voted·no, while 1. 3 percent cast an abstention ballot. 
Ombudsman directors Nancy McDermott and Dave Stephenitch said 2608 students of an eligible 7539 students ( 34.6 percent) voted in the election. McDermott at­tributed the rather low turnout to students "not understanding the issues." Stephenitch added there may have been some confusion on what students felt they were voting. 
In reacting to the amendment defeat, Student Body President Bill Healy said he "was not surprised" by the results. "The life or death of senate is not as important as what can be done," he said. 
Reagan, Gorbachev agree to news blackout 
GENEVA -President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, agreeing they "must achieve deci­sions together," met face-to-face for the first time yesterday and plunged into a series of"businesslike" discus­sions behind the curtain of a news blackout. 
Arms control issues 'were on the agenda for the first day of the sum­mit, but there was no public word on developments. The day ended with Reagan and Gorbachev sitting down for an unscheduled 50-minute fireside chat. 
"I think we will have a good relationship," Swiss television quoted Gorbachev as saying of Reagan. It was one of the few breaks of the blackout, which the White 
House  said  underscored  the  
"seriousness"  of negotiations  bet­ 
ween the superpower leaders.  

While posing for pictures at the beginning of a private dinner given by the Gorbachevs at the Soviet mis­sion, the Soviet leader was asked why he had spent so much time alone with Reagan. 
"We think it's useful to have face­to-face contact," he replied. 
When Reagan was asked ifthe pair had made progress during the day, he said with a grin, "We're smiling." 
Because both sides agreed at the outset not to talk publicly about the deliberations until after they end, the content of the two leaders' dis­cussions was not revealed. But spokesmen for both sides agreed the talks took place in a "good atmo­sphere" and were "businesslike." 
The summit is scheduled to end today, with the possibility of a "public reporting session" tomor­row morning, according to White House spokesman Larry Speakes. 
The time could be taken up by the signing of any joint agreements, or the leaders could simply use the op­portunity to end the blackout with their views of the first superpower summit In six years. 
Yesterday, the leaders were scheduled to hold a I '5-minute get­acquainted chat In the morning before joining six advisers from each side to begin th~ formal talks devoted to a two-hour review of 
see SUMMIT page 5 
Healy did call the effort to disband the senate "worthwhile," since more Interest has been generated In student government. He also said he felt senate members have con­centrated more on compromise and not conflict during the effort. 
Student SenatorJim Hagan said he 
is encouraged "we won by such a 
margin." Hagan said the vote is "a 
signal to Bill (Healy) that he needs 
to begin using the senate again." 
"We had a good proposal that did 
cover all possibilities," said HPC 
Chairman Kevin Howard, who 
called the final vote "a shame." 
Howard said he feels the students 
did not say they wanted a senate, but 
they didn't want the proposal. 
Student Body Vice President Duane Lawrence agreed with Howard by saying students were just voting on the amendment. If a vote were to be taken whether student government should be restructured, the vote would be different, he added. 
"Students chose they want a senate," said Healy, but he added student government has to Imple­ment ways to get students closer to the senate. "We are not tinkering with student government toys," but are going to work with the govern-
see VOTE, page 3 
The Observer Wednesday, November 20, 1985-page 2 
Of Interest 
The Notre Dame Macintosh Users Group will 
meet tonight at 7:30 in Room 120 Hayes-Healy. All are invited and welcome. -The Obseroer 
"Stragetic and GeopoliticalConcerns in 
South Africa" will be the topic ofa lecture by Chicago lawyer Cheryl Harris. Harris is a representative ofthe Coalition for Illinois'. Divest­ment from South Africa. The film "South Africa: The Nuclear File" will also be shown. Both events begin at 7:30 tonight in S~;H>leton Lounge of LeMans Hall and are open to the public. -The Obsefter 
The values ofa liberal arts education in 
the business world will be the topic of a lecture tomorrow night at 
7:30 by James Jack, chief financial officer and executive vice presi­dent of the Associates Corporation of North America. Jack is also a member of the College's Board of Regents. The lecture, in Haggar College Center, is sponsored by the business and economic depart­ment, and is open to the public. -The Obseroer 
Jo.Antte Slavin, assistant professor in the food, science, and nutrition department at the University of Minnesota, will speak tonight at 7 in the LaFortune little Theatre. The topic of the discus­sion will be, "Nutritionfor Athletes: Myth vs. Reality." -The Observer 
ThedaSkocpolofthe University ofChicago will present "Political Formation of the American Welfare State" as part of the EXXON Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series sponsored by the department of sociology. The lecture will start tonight at 7 in the library Auditorium. -The Obseroer 
All business and engineering students are 
invited to a student-faculty mixer this afternoon from 4 to 6 in Zahm's social room. The mixer is sponsored by District II halls ­Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Farley, Keenan, Stanford and Zahm. -The Observer 
LSU football tickets will be collected during dinner tonight, tomorrow and Friday in the dining halls by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Council for the Retarded and will be used to send Logan Center children to the game Saturday. -The Observer 
Adopt-A-Chlld-At-Christmas sign-ups will be 
conducted by the Junior Class Service Committee during dinner tonight, tomorrow and Friday in both dining halls. -The Observer 
CarletonWest, president electtor the Notre 
Dame Chapter ofthe NAACP will discuss the group's goals and func­tions on "Campus Perspectives" tonight on WVFI-AM. Join co-hosts John Deckers and Tom McGee with questions and comments at 239­6400. -The Observer 
Weather 
Wake the neighbors because it 
will be partly sunny but cold today. High in the low 40s. Cloudy and cold tonight with a 30 per­cent chance of snowshowers. Low around 30. Cloudy and cold tomorrow with a '50 percent chance ofrain. High in the low 40s. -AP 


Design Editor.............Jane Anne Riedrord Viewpoint Layout.......... Melinda Murphy Design Assistant .................. Kathy Huston Features Copy Editor...... Gertie Wimmer Loyout Stoff............................. Brendan Fox Features Loyout......................... Carey Gels Typesetrer-s ...................................... Pat Clark ND DayEditor........................ Diane Dutart 
Jennifer Lynn Blgott SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle News Editor...................... Mark Pankowski AdDesign ......................Jeanne Grammens Copy Editor...................... Anne Kalterbach Jim Kramer 
Sports Copy Editor .......... Mike Szymanski Pbotograpber ..........................Paul Kramer Vku'[Joint Copy Editor ....... Allee Groner 
lbe Obeerver (liSPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. TbeObeerver is published by the studentsofthe University of Notte Dame and Saini Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( llO per semester) by writing lbe Obeerver, P.O. Box Q, Nolte Dame. Indiana 
4M~6. 
lbe Obeerver is a member of Tbe Aseoclakcl Praa. All reproduction rights are 
resrrved. 
Rape can happen anywhere, even here at Notre Dame 
Twenty-year old Mary, a sophomore studying medicine, was pleased whenJohn, a guy in her calculus class, offered her a ride home from a party. Maybe this would be the first of many invitations, Mary thought as she entered the car. True, it was odd that someone she hardly knew had offered to take her home, but this was a Catholic university and John seemed like a really nice guy. 
When John said he was taking a shortcut, Mary thought nothing of it -until the car pulled into a dimly lit field. A slight 5 feet 4 inches, Mary was no match for the 175 pound John. He raped her, then drove her home: 
Afraid others would think she had brought the rape upon herself, Mary never told anyone what happened. She didn't want to embarrass her parents or be judged by friends. 
The above scenario, although fictional, dramatizes an existing problem -date rape. Experts estimate that as many as 47 percent of all rapes go unreported. Among those cases that are reported, abOut half the vic­tims knew their assailants before the rape. 
One does not picture the male Notre Dame student as a rapist. Usually coming from a middle-to-upper­class Catholic family, most Notre Dame men are well­
educated  and  well­ 
mannered.  
This  does  not  mean,  

however, that Notre Dame students could not commit this crime. "The impulse to ~..,..._T rape is not linked to a man's status, income or educa­tion," Jane Shaw reported in the May 1985 issue of Woman's Day. A rapist may be rich or poor, young or old, a high school drop-out or a 
chemical engineer. 
The sheltered and safe atmosphere at Notre Dame may lure women into a false sense ofsecurity. To many Notre Dame women, rape is a crime restricted to the inner city. It ·is not something that could happen to them. 
Although it may be difficult to believe, Notre Dame is not immune from dangers of the outside world. Stu­dents may have been victimized, perhaps even by fel­low students. It's just that these rapes haven't been reported. 
A rapist knows that most victims won't report what happened in fear ofsocial consequences. "Many victims still have a basic distrust that ifthey report a rape, either no one will pursue the charge or no one will believe them," said Mary Ann Lagen ofthe Center for Woman's Policy Studies in Washington, D.C., in.Woman's Day. 
Thanks to you ... it works... forALLOFUS 
• unlt.~WIIII 

Canyouaffordtogamliewith the LSAT. GMAT,GRE,orMCAT?
ProbaOf\' not. Great grades 
alone may not be enouQh to 
impress the grad sChool of 
your choice. 
Scores playa part, And 
tha($ how StanleyH. Kaplan 
can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches 

test-taldng techniques, reviews, 
course sutjects, and increases 

the odds that you'll do. the best 
you cando. 
So ifyou've been out of 
school for a while and need a 

refresher, or even ifyou're fresh 
out ofcollege, do what over 1 
million students have done. 
fake Kaplan. Why takeI
a chance with your· 
career? 

-

Cathy Coffey 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Because only' 43 percent of those arrested for rape are ever convicted, the victims' fears are not entirely unfounded. A rape victim who testifies at a trial can ex­pect her entire history of sexual relations to be ex­amined, perhaps furthering her already strongfeeling of personal violation. 
Many woman would rather deal with the frustration and guilt they feel than risk the embarrassment of a public trial. Potential assailants who are aware of these facts are not likely to be deterred by the threat of the 
law. 
Rapists are not always easy to identify. "Victims of­ten report that their as­sailant seemed like a really nice guy,"says Mark Zuck~r­man, a rape counselor and coordinator of the Vic­tims/Witness Assistance Program of the Boston Uni­versity Police. "Then when the woman is in a vulnerable position -alone with her date in a car or apartment ­the whole scene changes." 
This is not to say that no man can be trusted. The vast majority of men would never force a woman to do something she doesn't want to do regardless of the 

cicumstances. But it's a good idea to take some precau­tions: 
•Trust 
your instincts. Ifyou feel uncomfortable letting a guy you just met drive you home, don't do it. Call security for a ride. 

•Set 
clear limits. Ifyou feel that a man's behavior is inap­propriate, let him know and stick with your decision. 

•Keep 
in control ofyourself. Ifyou're in unfamiliar sur­roundings and not with close friends, don't drink more than you can handle. 


Most woman will never find themselves in a rape situation, but it's important to be aware of the fact that rape does occur, maybe even at Notre Dame. It is not my intention to make women suspicious of men, but to make them aware that rape is not limited to the inner city. Someday they may be the victim. 
130 U.S. 31 North 1 Mile North of Campus 
277-4519 
FREE DELIVERY 

KAPLAN 

r-------~---------T--------,
1 Monday II WedneSday I Sunday I 
Thewodd's U:ling testprep.organization. 

114",111em
SOUTH BEMD AREA 
Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. SOuth Bend Ave. 

I $5.9~1 
SOuth Bend, Indiana 48837 

L
Coli befOre 11
(211)"272-4135 


16",1 Item 118",1 Item 1 
$7.95 I $9.95 I 
Coli befOre 11 before 9:30

L::... ~ 
I -----------_, 

The Observer Wednesday, ~ovember 20, 1985-page 3 

Another day in paradise 
Umbrellas have become an essential ttem for stu­their ways to the North Dining Hall as rain once dents attempting to survive the November again drenched the Notre Dame campus. swampland ofSouth Bend. Here, students splashed 
Tobacco conipany sued by widow 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif. -John Mark Galbraith, crippled by heart 
disease,  lung  cancer·  and  em­ 
physema,  lived  his final  years on  
bottled oxygen.  

Yet his widow and children con­tend he was so addicted after nearly a half century of smoking that he yanked back the oxygen mask to sneak a puff of Camel, Salem or Winston cigarettes. 
This week; Galbraith's life and death will be spotlighted in his sur­vivors' S 1 million liabiliry suit in the Santa Barbara Counry Superior Court against RJ. Reynolds Tobacco Co. and two stores. 
Jury selection began Monday in the suit, the first among about 35 new liability suits against Reynolds to go to trial. 
Tobacco industry spokesmen and some financial analysts said a win for 
AHention: Notre Dame Employees YOU CAN JOIN THE FIRST LOCAL IPA*HMO IN THE MICHIANA AREA 
Key

Health Plan 
TOTAL HEALTH CARE WITH NO DEDUCTIBLES AND MINIMAL COPAYMENTS 
COVERS 
IN FULL 
Wholly Owned by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Indiana 
*Individual Practice Association (you personally choose a privately practicing physician as your health care manager) 
..,. OFFICE VISITS 
..,. ROUTINE CHECK-UPS 
..,. PREGNANCIES 
..,.SURGERIES 
..,. HOSPITALIZATIONS 

..,. EMERGENCY CARE BOTH IN AND OUT OF AREA ­
WORLDWIDE ..,.PAP SMEARS ..,. IMMUNIZATIONS/INOCULATIONS 
KEY HEALTH PLAN 
Galbraith's family could trigger a bil­lion dollar flood of similar claims against tobacco companies and open the door for liability suits against a wide range of goods, from liquor to fatty foods. 
The wrongful death suit filed in 
1983 against Reynolds and two 
stores that sold Galbraith cigarettes, 
claims his 1982 death at age 69 was 
due to Injuries that resulted from 
cigarette smoking. 
It alleges that the cigarettes Galbraith smoked for approximately 50 years were "defective and unsafe for their intended purpose in that they contained contaminated, adul­terated, impure, harmful, lethal and carcinogenic ingredients." 
"The heart of the law suit Is to have an American jury, having heard the medical and scientific evidence presented by both sides, find that cigarettes cause human illness and especially, Mr. Galbraith's death," 

said Paul Monziodt:, associate to at­torney Melvin Belli, who is handling the case for Galbraith's widow, Elayne, of Stanton, and son and daughter. , Similar suits have been brought before, but Reynolds spokesmen say the tobacco industry has never been found liable for damages resulting in death or disease stemming from cigarette smoking. 
However, Belli, one ofthe nation's leading personal injury lawyers, said he believes he can win. Belli has brought similar cases against Reynolds and lost them all, the first time 25 years ago. 
Belli sought out the Galbraith family -a practice prohibited by California law unless the attorney pledges any proceeds to the public good. Belli says he will donate any income he receives from the case to cancer research. 
Students to join fight against ethanol stench 
By THERESA WEI111MAN 
News Staff 
Plans to establish a student group to lobby against South Bend's et­hanol plant are being coordinated, according to Student Body Presi­dent Bill Healy. 
Healy, who on Nov. 8 met with John Roberts, chairman of C.E.A.S.E. -the group formed in protest of South Bend's plant, announced plans to establish the group in conjunc­tion with Saint Mary's and the local organization. 
The group, functioning under Roberts and Healy, wlll gather stu­dent signatures on petitions to send to South Bend Mayor Roger Parent. Fund raisers will also be organized to help support Roberts' group. 
Roberts informed Healy that 

C.E.A.S.E. had recently filed suit 
Construction of house to benefit community 
By MARY REYNOLDS 
StaffReporter 
A new house is being built in South Bend which promises to improve the qualiry of life fOr both South Bend residents and the Notre Dame communiry. 
The construction ofthe house, 
in the city's Northeast neighbor­
hood, the Five Points area, Is 
being coordinated by Neighbor­
hood Housing Services, an or­
ganization dedicated to 
revitalizing South Bend neigh­
borhoods. 
The ciry of South Bend, local businesses, local students, and several community organizations are also involved in the project according to NHS Director Bill Hardy. 
Besides helping residents renovate their homes, NHS also purchases homes in, need of renovation, Hardy said. Notre Dame graduate student John Kennedy bought a house from the group, according to Hardy. 
When Kennedy bought the 
two-apartment duplex for 
$9,000, it was badly in need of 
repair. NHS provided the techni­
cal assistance Kennedy needed to 
renovate the house. 
It also arranged a low-interest loan for him. For approximately four months NI-lS worked 
Vote 
continued from page 1 

ment bodies we have, said Healy. 
Junior Maher Mouasher, who was against the proposal, said even though he is happy students rejected the amendment, a good restructuring committee needs to be set up. Hagan said he also an­ticipates "major reconstruction to be formed over the next three months. 
Survey 
continued from page 1 
find it impossible to have an Idea 
recognized and acted upon in the 

present. They must first find their 
dorm representative, present the idea to him or her, and hope that the idea would get passed through tht various channels of student govern­ment until It reached those in aut­horiry. 
With this alliance, section leaders in each dorm would gather ideas from the people in their sections and present a list to their dorm representative. Each dorm would then submit a list of ideas to the PSA which would, in turn, compile the against New Energy Corporation, which is responsible for the opera­tion of the ethanol plant. Roberts' group, however, does not want the plant closed, according to Healy. They just want the smell stopped. 
The ethanol stench not only devalu.es properry within the com­munity, according to Healy, but also could prove to be a negative factor in students' and faculties' decisions to come to Notre Dame. 
Healy has invited Roberts to speak at an open forum on campus during the next few weeks. Healy also spoke briefly with Parent in the hopes or organizing a debate bet­ween Roberts and the mayor on their solutions to the ethanol problem. 
Students Interested in joining the activist group or who have ques­tions can call Healy at 2 39-61 1 1. 
steadily with Kennedy on the project. 
"They adopted me, you might say," said Kennedy. Commenting on NHS's renovation program, Kennedy said, "It's not for everyone, but it's a great oppor­tuniry." 
Notre Dame students have also been Involved with volunteering for NHS. At the present time, a number of architecture students are drawing landscaping plans for homeowners along South Bend Avenue, said Hardy. 
Earlier this year, ROTC stu­dents painted a resident's home, Hardy added. 
The new hou·se, which is cur­rently being built by local stu­dents of the South Bend Community School Corpora­tion's Building Trades Class, will be finished by next June, accord­ing to Hardy. 
When the house, located at 738 N. Frances Street, is com­pleted it will be put up for sale. "We hope to market the house for under S40,000," Hardy said. 
Neighborhood Housing Services has existed in South Bend since 1979. This is the first time it has undertaken the con­struction ofa new house, accord­ing to Hardy. "A new house is kind ofa symbol ofhope and faith in the future," said Hardy. 

Hagan added that he hoped restructuring would not be the major project for senate so they can focus on their main job of "acknowledging student concerns in every manner possible." 
A tradition of low voter turnout was noted by Howard, who added there was a "lot more interest than 1 expected." Healy also said he was pleased that there were "that many srudents who voted." Hagan likewise called the 2,608 people who voted "encouraging." 
Ideas and present them to the Board ofTrustees, the president ofthe Unl­versiry, and the student body presi­dent. 
Following these presentations from student government, the HPC recognized events generated by the dorms including a charity all-star game sponsored by Zahm. The game will involve all-star flag football teams from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame competing against each other in Notre Dame Stadium on Sunday at 
1 p.m., directly preceding the men's interhall finals. Admission will be through gate 14 and a collection of S1 per student wlll go to benefit Kevin Hurley. 
~----­
The Observer Wednesday, November 20, 1985-page 4 

Six killed in South African riots; 900 black student nurses evicted 
Associated Press killed one man near Queenstown, a civil defense volunteers have main­farming center in eastern Cape tained limited services at Barag­JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -Province, where the burned body of wanath for several days since the 
Six people were killed and 21 ar­a black man also was found. nurses went on strike over a variety rested in riots across South Africa According to police, 11 blacks of grievances, and several hundred yesterday as armed soldiers evicted have been killed near Queenstown auxiliary workers walked out for 900 black student nurses from the since Sunday, in one of the highest higher pay. Southern Hemisphere's largest tolls from rioting in recent weeks. hospital, which is threatened with a Police reports attributed all but one Approximately 800 doctors, strike. ofthe deaths to police fire. nurses and social workers later met 
National police headquarters in Armed soldiers evicted 900 black at the hospital and threatened to Pretoria, which reported the deaths student nurses from Baragwanath strike this morning if the disputes and arrests in. eight black townships, Hospital yesterday, and doctors were not resolved. 
The~~cr 

said eight blacks and two policemen threatened a protest strike that ·
Frosting on the cake? 

were wounded as police used shot­could cripple the 3,000-bed hospi­Police and soldiers moved into 
It's all In fun wben yourfavorite Lyontte gets a pte In berface. 

guns, tear gas and rubber bullets. tal, the only one in Soweto, johan­Leandra, a township of 15,000 in an 
judy Grace, left, andjennifer Christie, right, encourage students to 

The headquarters said four of the nesburg's black township of 1.5 industrial area 50 miles east of 
"Cream tbetr Favorite Lyontte" by paying 13 to have a pte thrown 

deaths occurred in Leandra, near million. johannesburg, after residents stoned 
tn tbe face of any Lyons Hall resident. Proceeds wtll go toward 

johannesburg, in a confrontation Witnesses said soldiers using dogs vehicles before dawn, and attacked 
over the threatened eviction of sealed off the empty student government-run beer halis and
Notre Dame's adopted Cambodian f!!!ntly. 
Security
continuedfrom page 1 
11, and are taken to the county jail for processing. 
County police Captain james Weisser said, however, that "arrest is a last resort." Students who break rules are usually referred to Univer­sity officials, he said. 
Approximately one-third ofNotre Dame's security personnel are "bona fide police in the state of In­diana," Rakow said, a fact many don't realize. 
Though Rakow is ultimately responsible for all football security, Captain james Weisser and Chief joseph Shead of the county police organize and make assignments to the mixed group inside the stadium. Chief Charles Hurley .and Chief Don Ruszkowski of the city police are particularly responsible for South Bend officers. 
The mixture of departments doesn't cause problems, Rakow said. "It's a lot of dedicated people doing one thing together." 
Outside the stadium before, during and after the game, the reserve officers and the 12 horse­mounted officers, part of the St. Joseph County Sherift's Posse Inc., provide "eyes and ears" on adjacent ' fields, Rakow said. 
Scalpers, though scalping is not prohibited in Indiana, are kept away from places such as the ticket office and the Morris Inn, he said. 
Rakow also expressed concern about "bootleggers," merchants sel­ling items unlawfully using Univer­sity trademarks. 
In particular, he said, groups of "Moonies" have recently been pas­sing out buttons and stickers, asking for donations. These people are asked to leave and warned not to return. 
And on campus, he said, janitorial staffs are retained so that dorms do not sit empty. A couple of extra walking routes are added. 
But not all of the security opera­tions are so "mundane." Officers sta­tioned in a "crow's nest" above the south scoreboard scan the parking lots for suspicious individuals. From there, they can direct ground of­ficers. 
The South Bend Police help out with the scoreboard watch and provide a bomb expert in case such a need should arise. 
And, Rakow said, it's "real fun" when a dignitary decides to take in a Notre Dame game. Several years ago, stadium security had to cooperate with the security detail of the secretary of state. Presidents have visited, he said, and President Reagan came close to attending this year's ·Army game. 
Ruszkowski said there have been no arrests inside the stadium this year, "which says a lot for the stu­dents and the fans." He said he's noticed a "marked difference" in be­havior this year, also mentioning the alcohol policy. 
Weisser agreed that "everything is going real smooth this year." The biggest problem, he said, continues to be the "intoxicated patron." 

black squatters. Police said officers quarters in the hospital. Soldien; and homes oflocal policemen. 


MORGAN STANLEY 
will host an infonnal reception to discuss 2-yearjob opportunitiesfor 1986 graduates as 
Financial Analysts 
•
Ill 


Investment Banking 
Thursday, November 21, 1985 8:00p.m. Notre Dame Room The Morris Inn 

All Majors Welcome 
-The Obserwr Wednesday, November 20, 1985 -page 5 
....... __ ' 
..-~

Satellite photos reveal vegetation; •*--'' ·--. ~ ~ 
.............. 
·~···

::::.::..· ......... .. _ c·-·· .. 
·-•

drought in Africa may be easing. a-:MA 
ANoclatcd Pre1111 
NEW YORK · Newly analyzed 
satellite photographs of famine-torn 
regions ofAfrica show substantial in· 
creases in vegetation during the last 
year · a sign that the drought may be 
easing, a researcher says. 
"Things are better in many places," saidjames Tucker ofthe Na­tional Aeronautics and Space Ad· ministration's Goddard Space Flight Center In Maryland. "It probably means that the natural conditions underlying the drought are some· 
what better In many areas." 
The satellite images show sub­stantial increases In vegetation In many scattered areas In the Sahel · 

Summit 
continued/rom page I 
U.S.-Soviet relations. Then they were to break for lunch and return for two more hours of discussions with ad· vlsers on nuclear arms control. 
The first tete-a-tete, however, stretched into an hour-long meeting in a small room of the lakeside villa adjacent to the formal meeting the semi-arid area lying along the southern border of the Sahara desert, Tucker said in an interview. The images were made In August and September of 1984, and again In August and September of this year. 
The vegetation consists largely of grass, which is not edible but which will support· livestock, Tucker said. "These areas are almost exclusively pastoral," he said. "Thlrtgs are based on animals being the convener of energy for human uses, either through milk or meat, because people can't eat grass." 
Increased vegetation growth does not necessarily mean more rain has fallen, Tucker said. But It does sug· gest that the rain occurred at times 
room. White House spokesman Larry Speakes said the U.S. and Soviet advisers were left "cooling their heels" and chatting with their coun· terparts while they waited for the one-on-one talk to end. 
And' In what Speakes called a "clearly unexpected development," Reagan, who played host for the first day, ended the afternoon session by inviting Gorbachev to join him for a walk through the garden down to that are best for nurturing plant growth. 
"If all the rain comes at one time, that's not good," said Tucker, be· cause the rain will run off before plant seedlings can use it. 
Tucker said the satellite 
phQtographs provide Information 
that is difficult to get otherwise be· 
cause there are no ground-based 
weather stations or because political 
unrest makes travel to remote areas 
impossible. 
In addition, Tucker said,. ground 
observers usually have detailed 
knowledge of only small areas, and 
the observers' judgments of vegeta­
tion changes are subjective. 

the Student Activities Board presents: 


against all odds 
November 20th and21st 7:00, 9: 15, and 11:30 p.m. $1.50 Hall ofEngineering 

the shore ofLake Geneva. 
He said the two men put on their coats to ward off the near-freezing temperatures and took a five-minute stroll leading to a wol house, which they entered and sat down by a tire:: burning In the fireplace. 
"The president, I think, felt at a certain point in the meeting that It was a desirable time for the two to continue their talks alone," the spokesman said. 

......,....., 
............ 
.... ....... .•.. 
~ ••,..It \1111*\U ...
.. ...,, 
....... ...
~ 
1••, ...1' 
J.rI !.J.:..:JI.3:.}IJ: J:.5 •• ...-­
~."·~....... ~·I ~.:·;~:r,~·;:~•••~ .• 

Mtlltants of the Soltdarlty CommlttM wltb the jews ofU.S.S.Jl. bold their newspaperjewlsbNews during a demonstration In.front of the Soviet company Aeroflot on the Cbamps Elysee Avenue In Paris Monday to ask Soviet leader Mlllbatl GorlJachev to allow jews oftbe U.S.S.R. to leave the countryfrwly. Story below. 
Israel seeks free emigration of Jews from Soviet Union 
JERUSALEM · Prime Minister Shimon Peres urged Moscow on Monday to restore relations with Israel, but he was quoted as tel­ling a Parliament committee that free emigration ofjews from the Soviet Union is more Important. 
journalists who were briefed by members said Peres also told the Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee the government would allow the Sovlet.Unlon a role in Middle East peace negotiations if it permitted jews to emigrate. 
"If they agree to emigration, we shall waive our objection to 
their taking pan In an interna· 
tional peace conference on the 
Middle East," the prime minister 
was quoted as saying. 
Peres earlier had excluded the 
Soviet Union and China, two of 
the five permanent me~bers of 
the U.N. Security Council, from a 
role in the Middle East peace 
talks unless they resume 
diplomatic relations with Israel. 
In a speech to American fundralsers later Monday, the prime minister restated his old position that Israel would accept Soviet participation only if the Kremlin renewed the diplomatic ties It cut after the 1967 Arab­Israeli war. 

The can1pus-VY'ide-test file. 
····-.. ­
.. ........ I ••• I <Ill I -·••
I I I I ••••• I
..........
··--· ..........············.... ·-····
'"' ·-........ 
i: :: ·.: .-.··.· ·. ·--···· .-.·.•· .•.· ••· .•••••. •••==.·
:: :,: ::--::·. ::
:: :. :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :• •: :: :: 
oz.::;.: u :.: u uuuu u ~.::.. ~.::: ;.:::J 
---·A _
--... _. 
·--··

-·--· 

W£ HAVE TESTS FOR THE F<X.LOWING CLASSES: 
ACCT 332, 334 
AERO 240 
610 101 
CHEM 115 (Emil) 
CMSC 101 
ECOO 115,123 
ECOO 123 

EE222, 224,241,345 
EG 120 

FIN 231, 361, 370, 376, 380 
GOVT141 MARK 231 

MATH 103, 104, 105, 115, 125, 126, 165, 215, 225, 321 (diff eq), 323 ME 225, 334 MGT 230, 363 PHVS 111, 127. 141 • 20 1, 221 I 229 soc 102 
Come talk V·lith us.. We're Tests Unlimited, the new campus-vvide test file sponsored by student government. If you are presently enrolled in any of tl1e courses listed to the left, v.,Te have old finals and/or tests that you can legally use as study aids for those tough upcoming final exams. For a nominal fee .(usually i~¢) we \·\Till take your order, find tlle test(s.), copy tt!em.. and deliver thetn to your donn by Thursday, December 14tll. Orders Vv'ill be taken fron1 Thursday· the 2 1st through Tuesda)'T the 26th. Your Tests Unlimited hall representative V\1111 post in your ball exactly T...·v1len and vmere to place your order. 
"A quarter can save your time ... and maybe your grade... 



View~_o_i_n__t_______
w_ed-ne-sd-ay_,N-ov-em-be-r2_0,-19-85-p-ag-e6 
Notre Dame alumna reports on Peace Corps work 

Greetings from Oku, Cameroon. I trust this 
letter finds everything well at Notre Dame. 

Way, way back in May, which seems like ages ago, you mentioned a project you would be working on this academic year concerning production and marketing in the Third World. At that time I offered to correspond with you and provide information concerning my own work in Cameroon in case it might be of help to you. Though the specific focus of your work escapes me, I will simply outline my work and allow you to choose those aspects that might be pertinent to your own work. 
Virginia Clynes 

guest column 
My official title is Technical Advisor to the Oku/Noni Women's Cooperative. This cooperative has a membership of 2,0Q6 women, making up an area of 42 village groups. The main activity at this point in time is the purchase ofpalm oil in bulk, then resell· ing to members at prices (hopefully) lower than market prices. Members pay entrance fees to, and share capital with, the village 
r groups, which gives the group capital to carry 
out its functions and make payments to the cooperative. Oil is sold on acredit basis where necessary, though a deposit for the oil drum is required for every purchase. (Palm oil is a necessary ingredient in nearly every Cameroonian dish.) 
Some problems arise within the groups of this cooperative. Among the most common are: bad debts · not paying the cooperative on time for purchases made on credit, and lack of education concerning cooperative principles, role of officers, and basic account­ing/bookkeeping at the village level. 
The major complaint from the women un­questionably concerns the price of transport. The village groups are responsible for transporting the oil from the "main shop" here in Oku to their respective groups. Oku is situated in a very mountainous region, and all roads leading to and from Oku are winding and steep. The soil along the roads is hard packed clay, so in the rainy season (March to November) the roads become slick and full of potholes. The r~sult is high prices charged by transporters to offset the risk and effort of driving. When f.tte cooperative incurs high transport costs in carrying palm oil from the southwest province to the main shop for dis­tribution, there is little room for savings to be passed on to members. 
The cooperative movement is very strong inCameroon and receives a great deal ofback­ing from the government. An effort is being made now to expand the women's cooperatives Into foodstuffs marketing (corn, beans potatoes, rice ) . The northwest province is rich in agricultural production, with women doing most of the farming. With high production and only local markets to sell the produce, women have to settle for lower prices as a result of oversupply. At the same time, produce is being lost due to lack ofade· quate storage facilities. 

In . developil:lg-a--foodstuffs marketing scheme, some issues must be addressed. As in palm oil operations, transport is again costly. Also, the women lack the storage facilities to keep their produce until shortage season, at which point they could sell at a profit. The Oku Women's Coop. is the sight of a potato storage demonstration facility. This has been provided through the assistance of the food loss prevention program of MIDENO, a development agency operating here in the northwest province. A member ofMIDENO is presently looking into the southern parts of Cameroon for markets for the potatoes (primarily large institutions). It is hoped that the potatoes will be sold in November, with the buyers incurring the cost of transport. 
What has been done "'ith the potatoes needs to be done on a larger scale with the other foodstuffs. Storage faciltities must be built to keep the foodstuffs with minimum loss. Markets outside of this immediate area must be found for the foodstuffs, with buyers who will be able to incur the cost of transport. 
So, in my role as technical advisor, it is projected that 50 percent of my time will be spent doing field work. That is, travelling on 
my nifty red and white Yamaha to the village 
groups to provide education on the specific 
areas needed. In additl.·on, tt"me will be spent gathering statistics regarding the women's production to assist in the development of a foodstuffs marketing strategy. The Ministry of Agriculture has hired Rod Kite, an agriculture marketing specialist from the U.S. on ashort term contract, to conduct a national 
marketing research study. 

In addition, MIDENO has hired a Food Crop Marketing Officer who will be working with a former Peace Corps volunteer, now on con­tract with Small Project Assistance/Technical Assitance, to develop a strategy for women's cooperatives entry into foodstuffs marketing. The Peace Corps volunteers at these women's cooperatives will be doing the field work at the groups level for this research. The project proposal involves three pliases, lasting a total 
of one year. Phase I involves some interview­ing at the cooperative level and gathering of some statistics. This phase has just been as­signed to us, and we are meeting (all cooperatives volunteers and the research staff) Oct. 21 and 22 to exchange information. The remainder of my time is spent advising the manager at the main shop on her account· inglbookkeeping, budget preparation and 
analysis, and general office operations. There are presently seven volunteers working with women's cooperatives in Cameroon · six in the northwest province and one in the southwest province. There are three volunteers working with the marketing cooperatives. These cooperatives are con­cerned primarily with the marketing ofcoffee 
· a cash crop farmed by men. Foodstuffs have not yet achieved cash crop status. It is hoped that eventually, after looking to markets in neighboring African countries, foodstuffs will achieve status as an export item. 
1 find my work to be very exciting. The womt;n want very much to find markets for their foodstuffs, but they lack the means to 
conduct such a search. With backing and assis­tance from the government and development agencies, I feel my work will have a definite 
focus and positive results for these women. 
Oku itself is a sleepy little town of about 4,000, situated along the slope of Mount Oku. There are mountains and valleys in every direction; the views are spectacular. I am the 

• only Peace Corps volunteer here, am in fact the only fair skinned individual here, and I would not trade it for the world. The people have given me a very warm welcome and have done their best to make Oku my "home away from home." The small town atmosphere al· lows one to make friends with ease. I have taken on a secondary project of teaching English at the secondary school (i.e. high school) here in Oku. My first day is Monday and last night I had a nightmare that no one showed up for class. Is this common among teachers? 
For your personal information . the single major marketing effort in all of Cameroon is carried out by Brasseries du Cameroon, the breweries. In the middle of nowhere you can find an "off licence" (bar) selling some of Cameroon's best brews. By the way, the bottles here are equivalent to 2 V2 American­sized beer bottles. "I think I'm gonna like it 
here..... I look forward to hearing from you. Please let me know ofany information you may need to assist you. Remember me to "Gerry and the boys." 
Virginia Clynes is a Notre Dame alumna and is now a volunteer tn tbe Peace Corps. 


We should revel in youth instead of complaining 
Dear Editor: 
Ireland is beautiful. 
Joe Smoe No. 1 
Dear Editor: 
What does joe Smoe No. 1 mean wben be says that Ireland is beautiful? It rains everyday and is so cold that one can see his breath in every building be enters. What is so beautiful about gross weather and insuffi· ctent beating? 

Joe Smoe No. 2 
TamiEtten 

guest column 
Dear Editor: 
I disagree withjoeSmoe No. l's interpreta­tion oftbe beauty ofIreland. Tbe afternoon showers provide a great opportunity for tbe grass of tbe hillsides and flatlands to grow 40 different shades ofgreen, while making tbe sunshine a rare and well appreciated treat. Beauty is in tbe eye oftbe beholder and tbe beholder must befitfor observing. 
Joe Smoe No. 3 
Dear Editor: 
I felt that tbe last comment ofjoe SmoeNo. 
Doonesbury 
3 about tbe beauty ofIreland was quite inap­propriate and insulting. He may see tbe beauty, while joeSmoe No.2 may not, but we are all free to see what we want to see. Wby must we limit one another's liberties? 
Joe Smoe No. 4 
This is what we, the Ireland Foreign study students, "see" of The Observer. Is there beauty in this? As we reach for a taste of our home away from home, our Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community, we read slanderous in­sults, petty arguments and menial issues being beat to a fine pulp amongst the pages of this newspaper. Is this necessary and accurate reporting of the news, and ifso, is this neces­sary and accurate news? Must the student body, facultr, and administration be so preoc­
cupied with these things that they jeopardize the decency of a campus newspaper and a campus? 
College Is supposed to be the best four years ofour lives. Why, then, should we com­plain and argue endlessly about every petty issue that comes our way? We are part of an incredibly small minority of the WORLD's population that is lucky enough to attend col­lege. We are even luckier to be attending an institution that is regarded as a "great" univer­sity. Why do we make ourselves so miserable? We should be reveling in the freedom ofour youth, in the greatness of what we are ex­periencing. Our student newspaper, if it is an accurate barometer of the student body's at­titudes toward the world, is miserable. We only wish that more important things were happening at one ofthe world's "great univer­sities." 
Tailgate violations, parietal violations, stu­dent government recalls · why must we restrict ourselves when our freedoms and op· portunities are so great? 
In writing this letter, we do not wish to give you the wrong idea, nor do we attempt to limit your liberties. We love the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and write solely out ofconcern and compassion for the problems that are occuring there. We just wish you would relax. Make these college years ofgrowth and experience exactly that · four years you can look back on and remem­ber contently, knowing you have grown, and have experienced them to their fullest wit­hout forgettng to stop and see the beauty along the way. 
Tami j. Etten co-authored this column with Molly Maley, Btl/ Sammon, Annie Nets, andjulie Deignan. They are enrolled in tbe Ireland foreign study program. 


Garry Trudeau 


Quote of the day 

"Who can turn the world on withher smile?Who cantake a nothing day and suddenly 
make  it  all  seem  
worthwhile?"  
Theme from  

"The Mary Tyler Moore Show" 

VieWP-Oint Wednesday, November 20, 1985-page 7 

Saint Mary's Peacemakers inform on apartheid 
As the issue of apartheid rises again and dustrles, black wages are only 20-25 percent tually are forced to move to these barren African Awareness entitled Amandla, or again around our two campuses and our na­ofaU white wages. resettlement camps. Women are not a.Uowed "freedom now." We hope, through this week, tion, we continua.Uy discuss and reposition Apartheid not only limits the wages of the to leave the homeland without the permission and the many articles that have been appear­ourselves on the strug8les of South Africa. economic minority, but It also reduces their of their father, spouse or employer and.of the ing In The Observer, that people on both Many people, however, are confused on what lives to a system of laws and restrictions. The commissioner of the area. campuses will become aware of what is hap­
actua.Uy is apartheid. What are divestment and term used for the minorities collectively is Because the homelands have very little, if pening in that country. The issues of divest­disinvestment? It Is very difficult to become Africans. This refers not only to the blacks, but any, opportunities for employment, many of ment and disinvestment are very real, and involved In an issue by jumping right Into the also the Asians and the coloreds. The most the men must become migrant workers and crucial. Divestment is simply the sale of stock meat of the topic. So, for those who missed it stringent and most dehumanizing of these travel to wherever they can find a job. They in companies that do business In South Africa, when the fight against apartheid became laws is the Pass law System. All Africans over are housed In special compounds and their while dlsinve~tment is the complete public, like I did, and for those who just want 16 years of age must carry a pass book with wives are not a.Uowed to accompany them. In withdrawal ofa company's capital from South to remind themselves, I am going to answer them at all times. Failure to have one can addition to the break up of the family caused Africa. The first Inclination ofanyone Is to ask, the question, "what's It all about?" result in arrest and imprisonment. In the last by this system, there Is no opportunity for up­"why should I worry about South Africa when 20 years, an estimated seven million blacks ward mobility. Education Is very limited for it is so far away?" However, U.S. companiesHeidi Cerneka have been tried for passbook offenses and 40 the Africans. White farmers In an area have the now facing the Issue of divestment are "blue­percent of aU black prisoners are imprisoned power to decide whether or not a school may chip firms with a total stock value of 600 bil­for passbook offenses. The passbooks contain: be allowed to exist, and even ifone does, often lion" according to the Research Association. 
simply said an identity document with the person's sex, children have to be pulled out at harvest time We are Involved. name, photograph, pass number and ethnic to work. Thus, the issue of apartheid, while it may 
The term "apartheid" which litera.Uy means classification, fingerprints, employment his­Not until very recently have labor reforms seem to be growing old, is very real and needs "separateness," is a "complex system ofopen, tory and the signature of their employer for arisen to improve the working conditions of to be addressed as the crucial Issue It Is. Over legal racial discrimination which allows 4.~ each week, travel permits, residential address, Africans in Industry in South Africa. the last year, "more than ~00 South Africans 
million whites to maintain political and tax receipts and family records. In essence, Previously, African employees risked losing have been killed In protest and demonstra­economic conrrol over 22.5 million Blacks the passbook contains all aspects and informa­their jobs if they even voiced any protest tions" for the simple rights of humane living. and 4 million 'coloreds' (mixed race) and tion ofan African's life. against the conditions oftheir jobs. According This is not simply an Issue of economics, It Is Asians (primarily Indians and Pakistanis)" ac­In addition to the restrictions of the pas­to the Labor Research Association, as recently an Issue oflife and the treatment ofa people as cording to the Economic Notes of the Labor sbooks, the Africans have no vote and no as 1984, "Union Carbide's Tubatse subsidiary people. Apartheid is discrimination and dis­Research Association. This control Is the key participation in the government, except in the fired the entire black workforce and cancelled crimination Is not right. to the financial profits of the corporate ad­"homelands" to which they were forced to its recognition agreement with the union after 
ministrators. The oppressed people of South move. Even in these homelands, In fact, the a series of disputes touched off by a super­Africa provide a very cheap labor source. The leaders are kept under restraint by the central visor's assault on a worker." That is just last labor Research Associadon also says that the government. The "homelands" are the most year. Heidi Cerneka Is a junior religious studies blacks account for 72 percent of all South barren parts of the country reserved for the Saint Mary's College Peacemakers, in an ef­major at Saint Mary's, a member of Saint African workers, but receive less than 30 per· Africans. The Africans, however, are not of­fort to make this issue and all ofits sides more Mary's Peacemakers and a regular View­cent of aU wages paid out. In most major In-fered living space on these homelands, but ac-clear has been running a week of South point columnist. 
1 
1

Financial gains should not be reason for major 1 1 
Many college students choose a major or The idea of learning and working simply for Often, liberal arts majors are criticized be­Those who choose a career only because of ~ career without sufficient knowledge or the sake of reaping financial rewards does not cause they take so-called "lightweight" the financial benefits may dread the working motivation. 1 have heard several say that busi· appeal to me. I am not implying that aU those courses. These courses, however, allow stu­world Instead of enjoy it. Happiness should ness and engineering are the only fields wonh who lean towards engineering or business are dents to become better acquainted with exceed drudgery in the workplace. One who 1 pursuing. When I questioned them about financially obsessed. Ifone enjoys those fields, themselves and society. They are as crucial as Is not happy with his work cannot possibly ex­.., their reasoning, they replied, "For the money, then that Is what he or she should pursue. any science or math course. cellnit. 
.,
of course." Granted, I, like others, hope to en­Those who study what they enjoy tend to A solid background in the arts, sciences and There are so many opponunltles In this age 
l
joy the financial fruits of my labor, but this Is excel. They truly care for their work and mathematics widens the spectrum for the un­of technology and advancement. Knowledge not my primary motive. Somehow, I, like a become dedicated. These are the types of decided student. Often, a spark is ignited in in many areas can lead one to discover what 
1
number ofother freshmen, retain an idealistic professionals society needs, those who con· courses like these that leads one toward a he enjoys the most. And diligence and per­, sc:nse ofcareer goals. sider work as pleasure, those whose love for specific area. severance can aid in finding an application for 
1 
their work encourages them to achieve great· The major problem with the prestige ofthe that study. ,Kim Yuratovac ness. teaching profession is the insufficient salary. It Those who widely consider their career op­1 This Is the greatness that has left Its mark on is a shame that many qualified Individuals tions and find an enjoyable field may agree , mankind. Ifgreat musical artists such as Beet­choose not to teach because it will not yield a with the old German proverb, "For those ~
,
my views hoven and Mozart were forced to sacrifice wealthy financial situation. Teachers hold happy, the hour never strikes." 
,
their creativity to assume a more "practical" more influence on the minds of soclety than 
'I
I hope to attain success, but success In my job, the world would lack several musical any other people. It would make sense, then, Kim Yuratovac ts a freshman at Saint own terms, not necessarily financial success. masterpieces. that they should be praised for their effons. Mary's and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
,I 

P.O. BoxQ 
be changed to include all new mothers, not Faust as a person or otherwise. All anyoneMaternity leave should just those who have borne aU of their own cared about was that a new "supercoach" was children. going to come in and guide our Fighting Irish be same for adoption Carla E. B. Witzel to numerous national titles. And this was a Regina Hall reasonable dream. But it seemed that when Dear Editor: this did not materialize, fans of Notre Dame 
Maternity leave should be exactly what the The criticism of Faust became muckrakers ofFaust. name implies · time off for new mothers. The The point is this: Faust is not less a person means by which the child becomes a member should not be personal than he was five years ago, so why do people 
ofhis family should not be taken into account continue to bad-mouth him now that he has when granting a request for maternity leave. Dear Editor: lost some football games? Granted, some Whether a child Is adopted or born into a This letter is in regard to the present situa­people criticize only the coaching ability of family, he still requires extra love and atten­tion of the head coach of our resurgent foot­the man, but all too often he has been tion at the earliest stages ofdevelopment. ball team. It is not critical of him, not does It maligned In a more personal way. 
Ifanything. an adopted child might require praise him for the "outstanding job" he has It appears now that there Is a good chance more attention and affection at first than one done In his stay here. What It Is intended to do that Faust will not be back next year, at least as who was born Into his family, because he and Is to remind the student body that whether he head coach. But this season Is not over yet. his new mother do not share that natural stays or goes after this year, he is a man deserv­The students should stand behind and suppon mother-child bond which is formed during ing of the respect and dignity that he was him more than ever as the end of his reign pregnancy and early infancy. shown when he arrived here five years ago. approaches. After aU, no o~ wanted to win Without a doubt, the decision which was At this time, I remember no person at all, more than Faust, like it or not, he has shown a passed down In Professor Traxler's case must Notre Dame fan or not, who criticized Gerry lot of character these past fc:W years when he 
, ~ 
was under heavy fire from the media and fans. 1 Now is the time to show him that we ap­
1 preciate his efforts and that we truly respect ~ him as a person. 
CbuckRoacb 

1
ZabmHall 

I 
~ 
The Viewpoint Department 

1 1
P.O. BoxQ 

1 
,1
Notre Dame, IN 
46556 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. 5arah E. Hamilton Business Manager ...................... Davrd Stephenrtch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan 
The Observer 1s the independt>nt newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager.. ... Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennetl 
admrnustratron of etther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb 
srble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
tarres. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy 
available to aH members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Copy Chief ........................ , ................. Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 



Accent 
! 
r 
r 
Curator's Choice also 
r 
I"' 
r 
r 

writer's choice 
r 

r 
r 
FRAN NORTON 

~ 
features writer

r 
~ 
D 
espite frequent cries that South Bend is a cultural vacuum, small enclaves of culture do exist. 
One such haven for those drowning in the malaise ofdaily routine is the Snite Museum ofArt. Aspecial exhibit Is now on display at the museum, entitled "Africa And The America's: A Curator's Choice." 
The pieces in the exhibit were especially selected from the museum's own collections ofAfrican, Native American, and Pre­Columbian artworks. Many pieces in the collection were given to Father Sorin from missionaries in these areas. 
This exhibit offers the perfect opportunity for students to explore pieces ofpast civiliza­tions that can provide insights to how others lived and thought. The exhibit is con­veniently located in the northwest corner of the Snite, which can be entered from the 
r 
Great Hall ofO'Shaugnessy. Several of the artworks are particularly 
striking. 
I A terra cotta figure ofa man in mourning 
r was emotionally moving. It was produced by 
r theJenne culture between the 11th and 15th 
I centuries in what is now central Mali. It was 
r excavated from the walls ofa town that was 
r subjected to annual floods. In order to ensure that the mud walls of the town stood against
~ the raging waters, a virgin was ritually buried 
r 
within the walls. This legend adds to the figure's mystic quality. ~ One example ofPlains Indians an is a pictograph on muslin made by White Swan, a 
r 
r 
t 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
I 
r 
I 
I"' 
I"' 
r r 
r 

..­
Pre-Columbian figure that may 
have inspired Steven Spielberg to 
produce the movie "Gremlins." 



Observer promotions 
T 
he Observer has announced the following promotions: 
Genie Wimmer, a junior English major 

at Saint Mary's, has been selected as an 
Accent copy editor. Wimmer is from 
Hoban, Ind. 
Eric Bergamo, a sophomore Interna­

tional Relations major from Seneca Falls, 
N.Y., has also been chosen as an Accent 
copy editor. 
Tht> following reporters have been promoted to the position offeatures staff reporter: Crow scout in the U.S. 7th Cavalry. The pictograph illu.-r.tes White Swan's exploits and bravery in several battles. It was painted in the period shortly after the Battle ofthe Little Big Horn of 1876, in which Custer's 7th Cavalry was decimated. 
Art 
Africa and the America's 

From this particular artwork one can gain a new perspective on Indian life. The bright watercolors and graphic depiction of violence force the viewer to appreciate the artist's own turbulent life. 
From the Upper Remojadas I culture of Veracruz, Mexico comes a hermaphroditic figure. The left half is male, and the right half is female. While there are normally life/death or age/youth splits, this is a unique figure as it is the only known male/female split figure. It is believed that this figure was worshipped as an idol. 
The goal of this exhibit is not only "art for 
art's sake," but is to educate people about 
what the Snite has to offer. For those wishing 
to explore other cultures, or for those merely 
wishing to escape for a short time, this 
exhibit is highly recommended. 
The exhibit will run untilJanuary 19 of 
next year. The Snite is open from 10 a.m. 
until 4 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 
till 8 p.m. on Thursdays. Guided tours are 
available upon request. 


The terre cotta figure ofa man in mourning, from the Jenne culture. 
John Afileck, a senior from Syracuse, N.Y.; Marilyn Benchik, a Saint Mary's freshman from South Bend; Mary Berger, a freshman from Denver, Colo.; David Dvorak, a senior from Westchester, Ill.; Kathy Manin, a junior from Columbus, Ohio; Kris Murphy, a freshman from Dayton, Ohio; Gerry Scimeca, a freshman from Willingboro, NJ.; Patti Tripathi, a sophomore from South Bend; and Lisa Young, a sophomore from Rochester, Mich. 
. . •..:.:::,­
i 



~i.l 
;:J 


Indian coat from the early 19th· century, based on an English oj}icer's model. 


Wednesday, November 20, 1985-page 8-9 
Take us away from the ball game, say students 
"I spend my extra time writing
ED NOLAN 

letters, or shopping at the mall,"
fNtures copy editor 

W 
Sheldon said. "I can spend the S60 on shoes or clothes or something hen the Fighting Irish do 
else I will enjoy," he noted further. 
battle on their home gridiron, "Tickets cost S60, Morgan Notre Dame's students flock into chimed in. "That's six records, the the stadium. But not all students are cost offixing our stereo's amp, or 
shaking down the thunder from the six cases ofbeer-and I couldn't sky over the Notre Dame Stadium. afford missing out on six cases." 
"I like to play football but I don't "I think the spirit Is fun and I can like to watch us lose," said Ed Mor­get caught up in the enthusiasm, gan, a second year chemical en­noted Sheldon, "but I would end up 
.glneering student from Albany, N.Y. watching the cheerleaders Instead "I don't understand the game of of the game." Morgan added, "Dan football all too well, and I do not doesn't even know which team Is think that it is worth it ( timewise) ours when we watch It on televi­
to go to the games," said his sion." roommate Dan Sheldon. "The tick­Morgan sleeps late and tunes in ets are priced reasonably, and the the game in the comfort of his 
student discount Is a good deal, If room. "I can open a beer and a bag you follow football," he added. ofchips and enjoy the game wit­
"I love football," said Beverly hout the push and the shove of the Bean, a junior business major from crowd," he said. "After the game, Elkhart, Ind. "My brothers played in we can go right outside and work high school. I know what a punt is out our frustrations by playing and what a safety is. I watch the football on the quad." team on TV and cheer them on." Bean believes, however, that the six "It's great to see the alums in football tickets are too highly their plaid pants, though. They priced. "But I am getting basketball really add to the hysteria. On Coot­tickets," she added. ball Saturdays, the air is charged 
"I often visit home and my with excitement," said Sheldon. boyfriend on football weekends," "It's fun to see the hustle and ac­she said. The team's record of the tivity." past few seasons influenced her "It's kind offunny when the decision not to purchase tickets, alums who used to live in your although other fans expressed other room open your door and walk reasons for discontent. right In," said Morgan. "Alums al­
"I..ast year it was a drag standing ways have a story to tell you about in the rain," remembered Morgan. your room." "I hate the long walk to the stadium However, the worst part of a too. It never fails, just as the second football weekend, according to half starts, your hangover from Morgan, is the fact that "the band Friday night hits you, and you loose wakes me up at H a.m. as they interest In the game. Besides you practice outside my room with can see it better on TV." their obnoxious drumming."

Less than expected 
-• 

Some ofyou also may have: seen I'm beating around the bush in tA
MARYJACOBY 
his recent article In Rolling Stone getting to the story line because
assistantfNturw; editor 
entitled "Down and Out at Ben­that's the most uninteresting part of nington College," in which Ellis the whole book, unfortunately. -.. .... decries the state ofencroaching Aside from the excitement of

T 
he: first clue: that "Lc:ss Than Yupplsm and conservatism and callsZero" by Brc:t Easton Ellis is a for a return to emphasis on the: arts
different kind of novc:l can be: found In American society. Such a call 
on the: quotations page: prc:cec:dlng seems rather Ironic, though, when Idon't know.
the first chapter. 
you consider how tough It must beThere are no weighty excerpts 
I guess people
living the: "down and out" life at ttie 
from Plato's "Republic" or Tolstoy's •• 
most expensive: college in the: na­
"War and Peace" here. Rather, there tion, Bennington in Vermont. 
really have . :* ..
arc: quotes from the bands X and ted Zep~lln. The: pages arc: filled "Less Than Zero" is the: story ofa names likewith references to MTV, Elvis Cos­college: freshman returning to histello .md other such manifestations home in Los Angc:Ic:s during his first that.
of our age: group's popular culture, break from school in the East. The:although this is a serious novel. 
four weeks ofvacation turn into aAuthor Ellis has appeared on the reading a book which incorporatesfluid nightmare: ofdrugs, parties, "Today" show and "Firing Une" an Elvis Costello promotionalcars, clubs, sex, psychiatrists, with William Buckley, discussing poster into a major theme, "Lessspending money, wasting time: orhis frightening depletion o!today's Than zero" makes for some slowany other such pastime which youlost and :tpoiled youth. The intel­reading.
could think of as embodying the:llgensla and literati, atways on the: 
lookout for wmc:thlng to analyze, "alienated youth ofour materialistic In an attempt to create a literary .. 
•

culture:" syndrom~. )'', l•
have: picked up on Ellis as the description ofthe current "MTV 
'J 

generation," Ellls structures his book in video-like fragments which . 
Less than Zero Books strive to convey to the reader the • ­disconnected, Indulgent life of America's rich kids as mirrored by
by Bret Ellis 
their cultural leader, MTV. The characters in "l.ess Than Zero" burst into short, intensive periods 
emerglng voice ofour generation. ofsense-overload with parties, sex, "Less Than Zero" Is the first novel The main character, Clay, spends and drugs, analogous to the music to appear dealing specifically with his month at home running around video's compact form, which packs r us, that is, the current I H to 22-with other such characters as Blair, a lot ofenergy and flash into one 
year-old group. Trent, Rip, Muriel (who has 
song, burning out into nothing in 
anorexia), Julian (a bisexual male the end. 
•

It's hardly surprising that no 
prostitute), Alana, Cliff, Raoul andother such literary "voice" has This fragmented style, in addition 
Ronnette. emerged for this specific sector of to the fact that the main character, them. If you don't either, why not American society, because until Clay, just seems to wander aim­write your own book as a challenge now no one ha..~ been old enough to lessly in an emotional void, loses to Ellis' pessimism? After all, you're: 
I don't know. I guess peoplewrite ahoutlt. Ellis wrote "Less fans quickly. It's hard to care about all still young. Maybe you could be
really have names like that. It just
Than Zero" la..~t year when he was someone who himselfdoesn't care the next voice of our rising genera­
might be possible in LA. 
21. about anything. tion. 


I could go on about the:-scoiy, but basically things ju:.c move from bad to worse, ami the reader is left with a totally desolate and depressing image in the end. I don't think thi-.p are as bad as Ellis paints 


.,--..~~l'IIWIII_______m::llll!ll_________!t:"..l':!!l!"'~;a----------------------­
... 
-The Observer Wednesday, November 20, 1985-page 10 

Sports Briefs 
ND Squash Club President, William Mapother, posted a 1·1 record competing in the 'C' division at the Wright State Open Tournament in Dayton, Ohio last'weekend. ·The Observer 
ND Rowing Club pledge sheets for this weekend's er· gothon must be turned in by all members today from 6 p.m. to 7:30 
p.m. at the La Fortune Student Center. Sign-ups for the weekend will also take. place at this time only. For more information call Mike Songer at 283-4I 08. · The Observer 
JoAnne Slavin,Assistant Professor in the Food Science & Nutrition Dept. at the University ofMinnesota, will speak tonight at 7 p.m. in the Lafortune Uttie Theater. The topic of the discussion will be, "Nutrition for Athietes: Myth vs. Reality."· The Observer 
NVA hydrorobics sample classes will take place today and Ftiday at 7 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Non-swimmers are welcome to partake in the water aerobics. For more information call the NVA office. · The Observer 
The ND water polo team will hold a meeting tomorrow at 6:30p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Yearbook photos will be taken at that time. For more information call Tom O'Reilly at 283·3588. ·The Observer 
ACC open skating will be available for a11 students, filculty, and staff immediately following tomorrow's Notre Dame· Lake Forest hockey game. Game time is at 7:30 p.m. and skates will be available for a rental fee. · The Observer 
A pep rallyfor the ND football team will be held Friday at 7 
p.m. in Stepan Center. Guest speakers will include Allen Pinkett, Mike Larkin, coach Mal Moore and Head Coach Gerry Faust. · The Observer 
NVA white water river rafting will be held over spring break of 1986. For those interested there will be an in· formational meeting on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Football Auditorium of the ACC. For more information call the NVA.. The Observer 
"WVFI Sports,AM-64, will broadcast tomorrow night's ND· Lake Forest hockey game at 7:20p.m. with Joe Malvezzi and Chuck Freeby. Friday night, Pete Pranica and Frank Mastro will call the ND· St. Joseph's (Ind.) basketball game beginning at 7:50p.m.. On Satur· day, WVFI will broadcast the ND-LSU football game beginning with "The Irish Today" at II:45 a.m .. Pete Pranica and Kelly Brothers will call the action. · The Observer 
The ND Charity Bowl to raise money for injured student Kevin Hurley will take place Sunday at 1 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. An all-star team ofND women flag football players will play an all-star team ofSMC players at I p.m., followed by the men's inter· hall football championships. Cost of the event is n, and students may purchase tickets at I2:30 p.m. the day ofthe game at Gate I4. · 
The Observer 
A co-ed volleyball tourney, four on four, will 
be held Monday evenings at the Angela Athietic Facility beginning 
this Monday and running until Dec. 19.. Women players must be 
SMC students. Applications are due Friday to the Angela Athietic 
Facility. For more information call the Angela Facility at 284-5549 or 
Karla at 284-4354. ·The Observer 
The annual SMC Turkey-Trot cross-country 
races will be held Monday at 4:30 p.m. at the Angela Athietic Facility. The races, a 3-mile run, a 5-mile run, and a I 1/2-mile walk, are open to SMC students, filculty, staff, and friends. Entries cost JI and must be turned in bv Friday at noon. · The Observer 
The NDWeight and Fitness Club will spon· 
sor a bench press competition on Sunday, Dec. 8 at a time and loca· tion to be announced. Sign-ups are being taken in the third floor weight room ofthe Rockne Memorial Building, and any member of the ND/SMC community is welcome. For more information call Pat Browne at 283-2056. ·The Observer 
An NVA one-on-one basketball tournament 
will be held Monday, Dec. 2 at 7 p.m. on the ACC Arena floor. Separate double-elimination contests will be held for men under and over six feet tall and for women. Registrations will be accepted at the NVA office in the ACC until Wednesday, Nov. 27. ·The Observer 
Opener 
continuedjrompage 16 
Joseph Price will the first guard to be subbed in. 
Forward Matt Beeuwsaert is doubtful ·for tonight's game with bruised ribs. The injury was su1fered last week in practice when Beeuw· saert was sandwiched between Kempton and Royal. He also is ques· tionable for Friday night's game with St. Joseph's (Ind.) as his status is being evaluated on a day-to-day basis. 

Fans 
continued from page 16 
Inflation is hard to control, as Jimmy Carter found out. In the world of college basketball, the media can and will hype a team to unrealizable heights. It will be tough, but Notre Dame tans should refrain from expecting too much from the Irish this year. Ifthey keep things in perspective, they may have as much fun watching the Irish as it 
looks like  the  Irish  have  on  the  
court.  
Number  seven  in The Sporting  

News looks really good, but remem· ber: Two years ago, The Sporting News picked the Notre Dame foot· ball team to be number-one. Could they have gotten that much smaner in only a couple ofyears? 

Thf! Ohsar•f!r '\;<Hrt· Dam<" otfkt". lm·Jtt·<.l on tht· thtr<.l floor of La~ortunt" Stu<.lt"nt Ct"ntt"r. at·n·pt' da~~ifit-<.1 J<.ln·rti~inl( from') am until ·I p m. \lunda\ through friday l'ht• Ohsf!Tt'f!r ~aint .\1an ·, otfkt· lot·att·<.l on tht" th1r<.l floor of llaAAar Collt"gt: <.t·ntt"r. an't"pt' l'la'"fk<.J, from 1.! ~0 p m until .~ p m . \lon· <.Ia\· though Frida\ l>t"a<.llint" for nt·xt·da\ da"llk<.J, ., .~ p m .\11 l'ld"ifk<.l~ mu-r ht· prt"pa•<.l. t·Uht·r in pa,on or h' mJil < hargt: '' I 0 n·nr-pt·r fin· t·harac-





Classifieds 
tt"r~ r Jav 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHIH 214-8117 

EXPERTTYPING2n-8534AFTER5:30 
PRO. TYPE Ovet15r--exp. Speciallz· lng in IIIUdenl papeta, law papeta. ell• 18f1ationa. ,...mea. 2n-5833 
•••••••~•••••n•••••••••••••••••••ooooooooooo••••••••"''''''''' 
S1HIIO WEEKLY/UP IIAIUNG CIIICULAIISI NO QUOTMI 81tf. CEIIEL Y INTEIIUTED IIU8H ALl'· .ADIIMIRD avii!LOPII: au~ PO 80ll 470CH, WOODeTOCK, IL
-· 
8U81NIEU EXPRIEU,INC. Wordproc:eaaing and typing 272-8627 
TYPING m-41141 FREE PICKUP a DELIVERY 

TYPING DONE .yULLY. 272-7171. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LoeT One women'a Pulaar watch (alblack) 
Pleue cal 1254/ffound 

LOSTIII Smal navy eo.ch purw. Con­talna Iota ol 10 ptua keyal Pleaaa cal 4203. Sizeable rftlrd offeted. 
Found:'* key belonging to an Audl. HM been 18ken to Loll & Found, La Fortune. 
LOST FRIDAY AT RIVERVIEW LODGE· 35mm MINOLTA CAMERA· PLEASE RETURN FOR REWAADII11284·5146 
LOST SiLVER BEADED BRACELET • REWARD 284·5118 
Have you loll an umbrallately? Did you leave H on a tray in the dining hal? Wal then you're in luck. Cal Anne at 1320 to dalmit. 
LOST: 1 c:lelr glul dangling helr1· llhaped eamng on 11/14; aomewhare around ArchHec:ture bldg, aouth dining hal, or llladlum lot. If found ~ cal Stupid at 272-3378. Great Mntlmentaf value. Thanlla. 
FOUND: A woolen cap on the llidewalk in front o1 the Notre Dame Poet Office. May bec:t.tmed In Room B-18 Atzpalltck orby caling 231H381. 
HIGHSCHOOL JACKET LOST: VERY, VERY, VERY SENTIMENTAL!! piclure o1 New York -e on t.ck-"CHRIS" on front-"12"on lleeve H you return It I promiM 11 IMke It wor1h your while THANK YOU I Chrta 1453 
LOST: PAIR OF GLASSES. GOLD ME· 
TAL FRAME AND SUOHnY TINTED. WERE IN A SOFT, BROWN CASE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 3404. THANK· YOU. 
FOUND A WHITE YARN CAP. SUNDAY EVENING IN FRONT OF DILLON HALL. 
1431 
LOST: amall cameo ring on Monday 11/18 • maybe in N.Oining Hal or BP. II found, PLEASE cal1264 REWARD 
LOST·ND ROUND METAL KEYCHAIN AND FOUR KEYS.SOMEWHERE IN EN· GINEERING BLOO. CALL ANNE m­7566. 
LOST AT SMC ·GOLD WOMEN'S 11185 HIGH SCHOOL CLASS RING ON 11/8185 ·GARNET STONE· INITIALS CAB INSIDE • REWARD CALL CHERYL AT 284-50111 
LOST IN MADELEVA • A PURPLE . FOLDER CONTAINING AU. MY MANAGEMENT ASSIGNMENTS IN­CLUDING FINAL EXAM!!!! IF FOUND PLEASE CALL UZ 284-4102 PLEASE HELP IT IS VERY IMPORTANT I GET THIS BACK!!! II 
LOST • BURGUNDY GIRL'S EYE GLASSES BETWEEN THE GROTTO BUS STOP AND FLANNER. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL THERESA AT 284-4128. 
FOR RENT 
F=-;;··;;;;;··;;;;;;;i;··;;;;;;;;;;;;;d..h;;;;;;··5 
bedrooma good wea 1 mile north ol N.D. m-3604 
Nice fumilhed homea for next IChool year 277-3604 
Need riden to Atlanta wea 11127·1211. 
Cal Ed 232-8230. 
Ride needed to Syracuae, NY (ManliUI) 
for Thank8giving. Pteue cal Malgaret 
4088. 
Rldera needed to Ath-/Atlanta erea, 
leaving Wed. Nov. 28, retuming Sun. Dec. 
1. c.l Mike at 1806. 
HELP DON'T LEAVE ME STRANDED AT 
SMCI NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI FOR . 
THANKSGIVING BREAK PLEASE CALL 
ANNE AT 284·5408 WILL SHARE IN EX· 
PENSES 
I NEED A RIDE TO YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO FOR 2 PEOPLE, CALL 2722 WANTEO:Ride to MM1.·11/24/85, WlY friendl vaveling to N.D. lor the L.S.U. gmne who a1n 18ke me home on Sunday? 
c.1 P-..t at 2n-1913 Allo need ridet.ck to N.D. elter Thantc.glving 
RIDE/RIDERS TO· LEXINGTON FOR THANKSGIVING. DON'T MAKE ME EAT TURKEY HERE. CALL MIKE,1644 ANYTIME. THANKS! 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO THIS WEEKEND 11/22·11124 CALL JUDY 283-3572 OR 284-4388 
RIDE NEEDED TO U OF ILL NOV 22·24 CALL KATHY 4385(SMC) 
Need ride No. NJ Thantc.glving Janet 284-4346 
Riden needed t.c:k to NO lrom St Louia Thank8givlng. Cal Mike )286-46!50. 
"'-8 help mal 1 need a ride to w... hington, D.C., for Thantc.glving. can leave anytime. Cal Paul at 1636. 
Going to Columbus Ohio for Thantc.glv­ing? Take me with you. Willh•e up.,.., Chria 2882 
HelpII need4LSU GAS. c.IMikeX1145 
YOU CAN HIELP liE GET HOllE 
or, rou-tum lhefllll8. 
IIJicle,__toWMH., D.C. 
forT~......... 
John 214-7412 
Need ride to Cleveland area (exit 10 off o1 Ohio Turnpike) lor Thantc.glving. Pleue cal Colin 2371. 
I...__F_O_R_S_A_L_E_ ___, 
'76 TOYOTA WAGON 4-CYUNDER, 4 SPEED. SOME RUST, RUNS VERY WEll PRICE: $750 m-5294 
2 L8U GENEJIAL ADIIIUION foraate 
cai233-BB03 
LSU GAa FOR SALE.272-6306 
..........................................~····················· 
WIU PAY ANY PtiiCE FOil EITHU TWO OR THREE L8U GA'8. PL1E.AR CALL IIIIUCE AT 4101 ANYTIIIIE. 
TO SEU.-lSU STU TICKET·2741·ASK FOR GRACE. 
FOR SALE • 2 LSU STUDENT TICKETS CALL 284-4425 
Need Two LSU GA'a or Student Ticketa c:allllahn•4073 

HELP( I NEED 2 L.S.U. STUDENT TIX BADI CALL ERIC X3658 
WIU PAY M •uctta FOII2 GA'8 TO THE NO 118. aT. JOUPH8 IIMKET· UU. GAllE THta FIIDAYII CALL IIKEAT1171 
IN DESPERATE NEED OF I L8U GA'8 PLEASE CALL JIM AT 272-4104 
'

.........................1•• , ................................... 
Need two (2) B-Ball GA'a to St. Joaeph'a game. c.llx1484. 
NEED TWO LSU GA'S 283-4332 
I HAVE TWO ARMS AND TWO LEGS, WIWNG TO PAY ONE OF EACH FOR TWO GA'S TO NO V. ST JOE'S FRIOAY..CALL ED 4384 
Help! Need 2 LSU GA'a, call Moly II 284· 
5521. 
FOIIIALE: 
2L8UGAa. 
Cell Chuck at 1104. 
NEED LSU TilCa. 232·1468 mtet3. 
FOR SALE 4LSUGA'a 2n-835Klm 
I have 6 LSU GA'a for aale. Belt offera. Eric 1527. 
PERSONALS 
...o.:;·;;;;;·;;.;;;;;;;:·;;.;;;;;;;·;;;;;·;;;··i~ 
the 111<1, how euy It waa, how natutel, limp/a, right, ,.._-coming-home It waa, to be free ofyour body? 
·Richard Bach,· 
The llrldge acn.F-• 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Earn $$$ for .. thoae bool<a you didn't reedll PANDORA'S wil buy your uaed bookll M-F 11-4. or we can help you find a uled book fora daM. We're open M-F 11· 6, SAT & SUN 1G-5. PANDORA'S i1 op­poaite CORBY'S at 837 South Bend Ave. 
Applicationa for AN ToeTAL 
EXECUTIVE COIIIIIITTEE poaitlona are 
available in the a1Uelen1 government office 
on theiiiCOIId n-ol La Fortune. Anyone 
inter..redin working for the zanieat group 
on campua lhould apply by o-mtNtr 2. 
Any queetiona? c.M Kendra Erven at 28_8­
4417. " 
IIAONIEU retume to Notre Dame for LSU. Taco John'a anyone? 
HUNGRY? Cal YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272·HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm-12pm Monday· Thrulldlly: 5pm-2am Friday: 3pm-1am Saturday: and 4pm-10pm Sud­nay . 
NO NOVICE CREWS • GOOD LUCK IN PHILLY!I·VW. 
JOHNJOEHEARNJOHNJOEHEARN JOHN JOE HEARN 
._.,.~~u-.. 8er!lenl8 
• For thee Glptafllerw of Cclmllpple _....,lleciMCI-coml..llllll 
YO .UNNY Only 2 days left! Hete ere aomethoughta lorthe day: Nofairacoping below the waiat! • Sounda Nke a mllketable llkll • So I've heard • On a acale ol 1 to 10, how doee EITINo e. tevez'a lowet herd bone projeCtion rete? Luv, Zippy, Lone Roomie, Crowbar Woman, Sexy Me, Loet Sheep 
Need ride to PITTUUIIQH for break! Donna2278 
Blondle, RoMe •• red Violeta we blue tf you don't pick me, I'M hate you! Fred/freddy 
Ult2GI'IIE.ATEll 

TO MY FAVORITE FLUE : HAPPY 811n'HDAY •natROSELAND DRUGS FOREVER. LOVE, S.S. 
HAPPY atln'HDAY 8ET8Y I HELP, I NEED SOME AIR. LOVE,BIG ED 
Need help-Ilk St. Jude 
The Santee Sioux aay: "How, white man. Today ia John McOreevy'a 22nd birthdly....alegendfrom South Dakota." 
UVE IIIIUCE aPIINGal'UN TAPa FROM ALL TOURS FOR SALE. CALL 2011 FOR INFO. 
LAURA IIAAII • You we my .,_to today'a quote ol the dayl Thanka to you I'm "going to make it aftet IIIII" Your friend, Juan 
....................................................!'''''"'''' 
MF(golf-) How'a the WONDEJIFUL & AMAZING Bil? HAHA I live for lkating: al equlta & oneiiMEIJ 
KEENAN 4N "NON-JERKS" OF THE WEEK: GREG POIRIER AND JOHN­MONGREL· WEYKAMP 
PLEASE HELP ME. I need a ride to the WINDY CITY for Thank8giving Br-. Wil lh•e ·~ etc. c.l ANNE 284­
4083. 

THE BRIDE IS BACK !I 
THE BRIDE IS BACK!! 
THE BRIDE IS BACK!! 
NewAIIIuJMby Manlion Depeche Mode Alia 
Y• 
Freddie Jack8on Eddie Murphy and11m morel ONLYSI.• Rock du Lac, first floor Lafortune 
TOKIAIO blanktapee 
ONLY 2 for $3.118 
While IUpply lull Aockdu Lac 

Suzenne, UR2GREA TER. Thla month h..been gr•t! N•t. huh?· J.R. 
Ski Colcndo rNet Spring llreak!l! Stay on the alopee ol Breckenridge Min. Trip in­cludell elope aide condominium, Mft tickela (lor Copper Min, Keyatone, A-8Min, and Breckenridge), and ahuttle to Min. Allor $248111 Organizational Mig. Monday Nov. 25 Contact Joe Mdlride(1236) or Jeff Pllrker(3418) lor place and othet detaila 
Congratulationa C/Col Jon ~~ Good Luck u CC! Jodi 
The Corn Palace Wal Drug The Sioux Fall Mount Ruahmore and John McGreevy..... th-and more can be found in South Dakota. Happy 22nd birthdey, Johni·Rock and Rat. 
Hey, South Dakota Club! Your preaident. John McGreevy, ia 22 
today! (free ice watet for the celebration wll be prrNided by Well Drug.) 
Hey Ted -BEEP meana you're aweeome too! (and whatnot) Mol 
TOYS FOR TOTS NIGHTII Thurwlay night, November 21 at the SENIOR ALUMNI CLUB. AI proceed~ at the door go to the TOYS FOR TOTS program. C'rrdt out and help the Semper Fidelia Club put a nleon the racea ol the kidl o1 South Bend thia Chri-. 
Get peyched PENNY LOU ... only 4 days left 'til the big marathon! GO PENN! Love ya,Jo 
.........; ...................................................... 
To a guy who orclen crinkle cuta. Jgglee. playa a mean game of Bowling, hal a big boo-boo Mp and il GOING WUT today: Good luckinS.F.I.L.Y. theB.E. 
MAJOR TOM hope dlffy·q _,t well love your little dlgit·head 
CONGRATULATIONS LIZ MURPHY'S BROTHER AND THEE STREET BAND!! 
HOLY CRUSH, HOLY CROSS HOGS? WE'RE THE CHAMPS..SWEETNESS! HOW DO YOU LIKE YOUR MEAT? RAW·UHHI WAIT, HOW MANY CASES OF CHAMPAGNE? CHEESE POP· CORN ANYONE? JOE, SOMEONE PUKED IN YOUR POT! CLIPPING?!! WHO?!I HEY ED-GO TAKE A BATH! BROWN JERSEYS? RAX TRAINING TABLE·HOP IN THE WMRRDLY MOBILE. GO BACK TO HOLY CROSS. IrS OPEN 24 HRS. NICE HOUSE· MATES, APROPOS TRASHMASTER. CHICKEN FIGHTS! BROKEN COUCHES? HI DAVE! NERONI, NEXT 
N.D. FOOTBAU. COACH? WHO'S YOUR BUDDY? OUOA DUDA ... LOVE. THE KNIGHTS OF NEI NEI FAN CLUB.P.S. I HATE -TERRORISTS. THEY-ME OFF! PLEASE? 


.... 
L_ 
..-------------------------~------------------------------------------, 
The Observer 
NHL 
PIIINCI! OF WALU CONFIUII!NCE AciMwDivlelon 
WLTQfGA"'-. bton 10 6 3 80 84 23 Buffalo 11 7 1 72 55 23 Ouobec 10 7 1 74 62 21 Montreat 8 7 3 73 72 18 Hllf'tford 8 8 0 60 73 18 
PMrtci<Divlelon Phlledelphla 15 3 o 80 55 30 WMhlnglon 10 8 3 76 84 23 N.Y.I-8 8 3 611 66 111 
N.Y. RMgera 8 8 1 65 511 17 New.Jwley 7 9 1 61 68 16 Pln.burgh 5 10 3 62 71 13 
CUIIINCE CAMP81U CONFIUII!HCI Smythe Dvtelon 
WLTGFGA"'­Edmonton 13 4 2 95 87 28 c.lgwy 10 8 3 85 68 23 Vancouver 882848420 
Winnipeg 7 8 2 74 86 16 L.A.Klnga 4 13 1 60 94 8 Nonte Dlvlelon St. Loula 7 6 3 55 83 17 Chicago 6 10 2 73 85 14 Mlnneeota 4 8 6 87 73 13 Detroit 4 10 4 55 89 12 Toronto 3 12 3 62 78 8 
LMIN!tht'a.....,._ Bufflllo2. Hllf'tfordO Edmonton 5, Qullbec 4 WUhlnglon 4, PlltabuiVh 3 Vancouver 7, o.troit 5 N.Y.I.... 8, Phlllldelphla6 Calgary 3, Ml~ 3 New JwMy 8, L.A. Klnga 3 ToniF!'a a.m. Edmonton at MontrMI Toronto at N.Y. RMgera Wuhlng!on at Pln.burgh Vancouver at Chicago St. louie at Winnipeg 
NBA 
-...c:cw-
Allllntlc Dlvtelon w L Pet. bton 8 2 .800 

-
Plllllldelphla 5 5 .50() 3 
-Jwley 7 7 .500 3 Wllllhlnglon 3 8 .273 5.5 -York 3 8 
.273 5.5 Cenlnll Dlvlelon MllwaukH 10 
4 .714 o.tTOif 7 5 583 2 
Ad.tlnt.a 6 6 500 3 Clevoland 5 7 .417 4 Ch•cago 6 8 
.385 4.5 Indiana 3 7 .300 5 
w-..eont­
IIIII~Divl•on 
w L Pet. Gil Denver II 2 .616 Houlton II 3 .750 .5 SanAnton•o 6 6 .500 3 Utah 6 6 .500 3 Del* 5 7 .417 4 Secnmento 4 7 .384 4.5 
Plldftc Dlvlelon L.A.LIII<WI 10 1 .808 PorUand' 8 6 .571 3.6 GolcMnSt.all 7 6 .538 4 L.A. Clip.,.. 5 6 .455 5 s.ttle 4 8 ':333 6.6 
p~ 1 11 .83 8.5 
1.8et.....,t'a........ -York 116. Waehlngton 94 GolcMn St8te110, Clevelend 104 Chicago 121, lndl-114 Delu 123, Ph0W11X118 Sacramento 103, San Antonio 98 Denver127, Houlton 113 New Jweey 108, PorUand 102 

Wednesday, November 20, 1985-page 11 
SPORTS WEDNESDAY @ E> 

'" ••• Competitively out of hand, we now switch you to the Ball State.•• " 
Regular Hi's  Sugg. List $38.50 Sale $29.00  
Sampson's Lo's  sugg. List $34.50 Sale $25.00  


Football Top20 

The Top Twenty college football tuma In The ,._oclated p,_ poll, with 11.-t·piace vot81 in parenth-, thle eeuon'e ,_,.,.. and total pointa. Pointa baled on 2tJ.19-18·17 etc. Notre Dame opponenta are Italicized. 
1. Penn Stall (46) 1040 1,160 2. Nebruka(12) 9-1-0 1,122 3. Iowa 9-1-0 1,020 4. Miami 8-1-0 1,011 
5. Oktehoma (2) 7·1-0 9112 6. Michigan 8-1-1 923 7. Otctahoma State 8-1-0 769' 8. UCLA 8+1 720 9. FlOridA 8-1·1 700 
10. Auburn 8-2-0 648 11. Btllfiam Young IH-0 516 12. Ohio State B-2-0 508 13. Air Fore. 11).1-0 492 14. FlOridA State 8-2-0 438 15. Baylor 8·2-0 3111 16.T~ 8-1-2 310 17.LSU 8-1-1 217 18. Arkeneu 8-2-0 1811 19. T-A&M 7·2-0 183 20. Georvia 7-2-1 135 
NFL 
---~ 
' 
NAnONAL Focn.M.L LUGUI NAnONAL CONFIMNCIE 
.. 

w L TPct. PF PA 0.... 7 4 0.838 220 1V7 N.Y. Oitlnlll 7 4 0.838 246 1113 Philadelphia e 5 0 545 183 178 Wuhinuton 6 5 0 .545 168 202 St.Loula 4 7 0 .364 
200 255. 
Cenlnll 

•·Chicago 11 0 01.000 323 127 o.troit 6 5 0 .545 214 241 Green Bay 5 6 0 .455 228 247 Mlnneeot.a 5 6 0 .455 221 248 Tampa Bay 1 10 0 .91 228 334 
Wee! LA.Rame 8 3 0 .727 224 181 S.nF111n. 6 5 0 .545 275 187 N-OIIeana 3 8 0 .273 180 300 Ad.tlnt.a 2 9 0 .182 218 321 
AMEIIICANCONFIUII!HCE 
IEellt 

w L T Pet. PF PA New England 8 3 0 .727 227 184 
N.Y. Jeta 8 3 0 .727 287 184 Miami 7 4 0 .836 275 231 lndianapolie 3 8 0 .273 207 272 Buffalo 2 9 0 .182 148 233 
Cenlnll Pin.butgh 6 5 0 .545 249 188 Cincinnati 5 6 0 .455 293 301 Clev""'nd 5 6 0 .455 1n 
166 Houlton 4 7 0 .364 169 235 W•t Denver 8 3 0 .727 266 221 
L.A. Reiderl 7 4 0 .836 243 233 Seattle 6 5 0 .545 261 225 San Diego 5 6 0 .455 284 295 KanauCity 3 8 0 .273 202 271 
x-cflnchecl dlvl.,on lhle ~·a ......n 
Wuhlnglon23, N.Y. Glanta21 lundlly'ao.­Ad.tlnta at Chicago Clncinnall at Cleveland Detroit at Tampa Bay San Diego at Houlton Wuhlnglon at Plltlburl;l Miami at Bullelo New England at N.Y. Jeta N-Orteaneat Ml~ N.Y. Olanta at St. Loula Phlleclelpllla at Del* 0..... Bay at L.A. AM-. 
indlanapollelll KAMM City Denver at L.A. Relden 
lllclr*y, Nov. 21 
Seattle at San FranciiiCO 

*Time to think about Intramural Basketball Equip. & Uniforms* 
lnterhall Football Playoff Pairings 
Quarterfl nala Flanner 8, Stanford 7 Alumni 12, Howard 10 • 
Semifinal a Alumni 7, Sarin 0 Flanner 6, Grace, 0 
Ch•mplonshlp Game 
SUndlly'ag~~me 
(Notre Dltme Stlldlum) Flanner vs. Alumni, 1 p.m. 

Basketball Top 20 
APTopT-, The TOp Twenty COllege baeketbal tMma In The ANoclllfld p,_ pol, with flrwt-place vot• In parenth-. thla ._,·a reoordland total polnta. PointabMed on 20-1i-1B-17 etc. Notre Dame 
opponenta arelteJ/clz-1. 

1. Ga. Tech (28) IHl 1192 2. No. Cwrlln• (13) IHl 1148 3. Michigan (13) ().0 1141 
4. Syracu.. IHl 1136 5. l<anaa(4) IHl 821 6. Duke(2) IHl Ql1 7. lttinoia (1) IHl 847 8. G-vetown(1) IHl 824 
9. Loulevllte IHl 667 
10. Auburn IHl 670 
11. Kerttucky IHl 471 12. Nan0eme(1) H 
... 
13. 
Oktehoma IHl 380 

14. 
LSU IHl 323 15. Memphle Sta1e IHl 292 


16. UAB IHl 270 
17. North C.Ottna St. IHl 266 
18. UNLV IHl 182 
18. Mflty~Md IHl 1153 
18. Navy IHl 1153 

lnterhall Soccer Playoff Pairings (double-elimination) 
Firat Round Holy Cross 3, Dillon 2 (OT) Stanford 1, Flanner 0 Off-Campus 2, St. Ed's 0 Alumni 6, Grace 5 (shootout) 
Second Round Winner'• Brlleket Stanford 1, Holy Cross 0 Off-Campus 5, Alumni 3 (shootout) 
LOMr'a Bnlc:kM Flanner 3, Dillon 0 St. Ed's 2, Grace 0 (Dillon, Grace eliminated) 
Third Round LOMr'a Br11eket Flanner 2, St. Ed's 0 (St. Ed's eliminated) 
Holy Cross 2, Alumni, 1 (Alumni eliminated) 
Fourth Round Winner'a Br11eket Off-Campus 1, Stanford 0 

Fifth Round LOMr'a BnlckM Holy Cross 3, Flanner 2 (OT) (Fianner eliminated) 
Sixth Round 
LOMI''I Brlleket 
Stanford 1, Holy Croas 0 
(Holy Cross eliminated) 
Ch•mpionahlp Game Thuradlly'a rMUit Off-Campus 4, Stanford 0 

(Ott-Campus wins championship) 
Saint Mary'slnterhall Flag Football Playoff Pairings 
Semlflnala Holy Cross 13, LeMans 0 
Ch•mplonahlp Game SUndlly'a ,...It 
(~aFIIIId) 

Holy Cross 21, McCandless 14 (OT) 
Friday, November 22­3:30 to 6:30 


A. C. C. North Dome 
All Faculty, Staff, Seniors Be Neighbors from the Community WELCOME!! 
Food & Beverages at Great Prices, 
-------------~-----------------------------" 

The Observer Wednesday, November 20,1985-page 12 
UCLA's-Gaston Green (44) goes over a mountain ofmucle to score tbe first touchdown in last year's Rose Bowl. Tbe Bruins, ranked eighth In this week's AP poll, have tbe Inside track in tbe Pac 10 drive to tbe Rose Bowl bid. 
• 



New York Knicks rookie Patrick Ewing blocks a first q~rter sbot by Newjersey Nets center Darryl Dawkins earlier this season. Ewing is tbe highest 
Ewing makes 1.2 million 
Rookies earn large average salary 
NEW YORK -The average base salary offirst-round draft choices for the 1985-86 National Bllsketball As­sociation season will be about S300,000, substantially up from last year. 
The NBA players Association said the average base pay for first-round rookies is S291,ooo; but that doesn',.t include No. 7 pick Chris Mullin t>f the Golden S~te Warriors, who signed on Nov. 6, about 10days after the season starte~l. · 
Mullin reportedly' is being paid S500,000 th~ year. H that figure is included, the average Salary for .the rookie ciass rises to S300,000. 
Sports 
continuedfrom page 16 

and finance are the main concerns, 
satisfaction must be found by other; 
means. 

"When everythi,ng is running smoothly and we . have a certain degree of success. with our various teams -it doesn't always hli••e tQ be football -the~;~ we've achieved our go~," O'Brien says. "We take a gre·at deal of pride in the 'ac­complishments of our teams. Last year it was men's basketball; a couple of years ago it was fencing. We put a great deal ofeffort into all ofthese things. 
"Also, we're pleased when we can show the growth of the athletic program. Right now it's the new swimming pool, next it will be a new tennis pavilion, and after that, some­thing else." 
Keeping on top ofthings is impor­tant, and the business office does its best to accomplish this priority. O'Brien described the office as "the nuts and bolts, day-by-day, hour-by­hour, behind the scenes operation. That explains it pretty well because we take care ofany kind ofthing that 
comes up." 

judging from the popularity of athletics at Notre Dame, the office is certainly doing its job in this regard. 
The Asso~iated Press learned that rookie compensation for this season ranges from a potential Sl.2 million for Patrick Ewing of the New York Knicks to $75,000 for A.C. Green of the Los Angele~J Lakers. Ewing was the No.1 pickin thejune 1985 draft, Green was the 24th -last in the first round. 
"The first five players drafted had an average increase of 25 percent compared to .last year," Charles Grantham, executive vice president of the players union, said. 


llfappu 1Btrt1Jbau 

flunbnnmn! 
.J"rom: m.&.f.N. 
iK.®_.iK. 
JA&®NA &IAllffRfl 


Y&RNY 

YOUNG &RUBICAM NEW YORK 
"The No. 1AdvertisingAgency in the World" 
The AP learned that ·Ewing could earn up to Sl.2 million this season in salary, bonuses and incentives. He reportedly has a 10-year contract worth S31.2 million, with tqe first six years and S1 7 million guaranteed. 
joe Kleine, the No. 6 pick, by the Sacramento Kings, potentially has the second-highest rookie salary this season, Sl.062 million, followed by the second draft choice, Wayman Tisdale of the Indiana Pacers, S987,500. 
You are invited to meet Mr. Gary Villani, Ma.nager of Employment and hear him speak on "Alternative Careers in the World of Advertising" 
Thursday, November 21st 8pm in Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Arts & Letters Business Society 
Pitt has chance to beat top-ranked Penn State 
AModatc:d Press 

Pittsburgh's record isn't worthy of even one vote in the Associated Press Poll. But the Panthers hold a key to a possible national champion­ship showdown in the Orange Bowl -and perhaps a bowl appearance of their own. 
The 5-4,-1 Panthers haven't been close to a berth in the Top Twenty since the openingweeks ofthe 1984 college football season. They get a close-up look at No. 1 Saturday when they entertain Penn State, with the Nittany Lions hoping to remain atop the rankings for a third consecutive week. 
H Penn State, 10-0, can do it, and if No. 2 Nebraska can beat fifth-ranked Oklahoma at Norman, Olda, the Lions and Cornhuskers are virtually certain to meet in Miamiwith the na­tional championship at stake. 
For Pitt, the incentive to win ­
besides beating its cross-state rival ­
is a possible bowl berth of its own. 
Penn State avoided the fate of Iowa and Florida, each of which as­cended to No. 1 in the poll only to lose and tumble from the top. The Nittany Lions, after pounding Notte Dame 36-6last Saturday in what was supposed to have been a com­petitive game, earned 46 of 60 first> place votes Tuesday and remained first in the rankings with 1,180 of a possible 1,200 ppints from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. 
Nebraska mauled Kansas 56-6 and 
received 12 first-place votes and 
1,122 points. Iowa edged Purdue 
27-24 and rose two places to third 
with 1,020 points, followed by 
Miami, which went from sixth to 
fourth with 1,011 points despite 
being idle. 

The two remaining first-place bal­lots went to Oklahoma, which moved from sevenJh to fifth With 992 pointsfollowing a 31-0 shellack­ing ofColorado. Michigan, with 923 points, also moved up two places, to sixth, following a 48-7 trouncing of Minnesota. 
Rounding out the Top Ten were Oklahoma State, up from lOth to seventl:l following a 21-19 victory over Missouri; UCLA, up five rungs to eighth after blanking Oregon State 41-0; Florida, up two spots to ninth by virtue of its 15-13 victory over Kentucky; and Auburn, up to 
lOth from 14th following its 24-10 triumph over Georgia. 


What Should Catholics Know About... • 
PRAYERFR. JOliN DUNNE , 
SACRAMENTS 
FR. ANDRE ,LEVEILLE 

SCRIPTURE and TRADITION 
DAN JENKYe
MORAliTY • FR. 
FR. HONK MALLOY 

CHURCH •
•


---·-------•FR.TOM O'MEARA ••,
. 
THE CATHOLIC FAITIJ PROGRAM will present these speakers and topics on SUNDAYS (January 19 -February 16 in Keenan -Stanford Chapel) ·a~d again on TuEsDAYS (January 21 -February 18 in Keenan -Stanford and Walsh Hall Chapels) ••~ 7 -8:30 P.M. 
• 

Pre-registration Necessary •••deadline December 9th 
Contact: OFFICE OF UNIVERSITY MINISTRY Memorial Library -239-6536 Badin Hall Office -239-5242 

The Observer Wednesday,November20, 1985-page 13 
Big Ten could send six teams 
to the various bowls this year 


CHICAGO · The Big Ten is on the verge of sending six more teams to various post-season football games and the conference can thank Mic­higan Coach Do Schembechler. 
Michigan has an outside chance to make the Rose Bowl this year if the Wolverines defeat Ohio State Satur­day and Iowa loses to Minnesota. 
But if it doesn't happen, "We'll still be playing in a bowl game on New Year's Day," said Schem­bechler. 
It wasn't always so, and Schem­bechler and Michigan were instrumental in getting the policy changed. 
"In 1972, '73 and '74, Michigan teams had a 30-2-and-I record and never got to a bowl," Schembechler said Tuesday in a telephone inter­view, "and one of those teams was undefeated., 
"It was Michigan that got that turned around. If I had my way, I'd send all ten of the Big Ten teams to bowl games." 
The policy was changed in 1975. Before that, the Big Ten allowed only one team to go to a bowl and that was the Rose Bowl. In 1975 Ohio State went to the Rose Bowl and Michigan to the Orange Bowl. The following year, Michigan went to the Rose Bowl and Ohio State to the Orange Buwl. 
In 1977 the Big Ten landed three teams in bowl games and the num­ber kept growing, Six teams went to various bowls last season and it looks like six teams will go this year. 
Iowa needs to defeat Minnesota to win the Big Ten tide and represent the conference in the Rose Bowl. But Coach Hayden Fry has guarded against the possibility the Hawkeyes might lose. 
"We have it going for us," said Fry. 
"But win or lose," he said, "Iowa will be playing somewhere january first. We've told the players what's on the line and we voted on a backup game if we lose. We saw what happened last week when Wis­consin beat Ohio State. You have to be realistic. 
"We talked about what happens if we win and what happens if we lose." 
Michigan hasn't gi-..en up on the possibility of going to the Rose Bowl, but the Wolverines ap­parently have cut a deal in the event Iowa wins the tide and Rose Bowl trip. 
"There's a lot of speculation in­volving the Fiesta Bowl and the rumors are well-founded," said Schembechler. "If we're not receptive to the Fiesta Bowl, the Cotton Bowl is interested in us and we're interested in them." 
Michigan has to deft:at Ohio State to gain a shot at the Cotton Bowl and Ohio State will receive an invitation somewhere, depending on the outcome of the Michigan game. 
Ohio State Coach Earle Bruce hasn't given up hope on the Rose Bowl. 
"In this league, anything can hap­pen," said Bruce, whose team could make it with a victory over Michigan and an Iowa loss to Minnesota. 
"We haven't talked about any bowls," said Bruce. "The only bowl there 1s this week is the Michigan bowl. All we've talked about is Mic­higan." 
Illinois needs a victory over Northwestern on Saturday to earn an invitation to the Peach Bowl. Min­nesota figures to lose to Iowa but will be Invited to the Independence Bowl, and Michigan State is slated to meet Georgia Tech In the All­American Bowl. 



South Bend council approves resolution planning stadium 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Aproposed downtown sports stadium that would host a minor league baseball team has . moved another step toward reality with approval from the South Bend Common Council. 
The council voted 7-2 Monday night to approve a resolution that backs a lease purchase plan for the proposed stadium. The vote came after nearly two hours of public comment by more than 20 sup­porters and opponents. 
Under the proposed plan, the city would borrow 15.5 million and pay it back with interest over 1 0 years. The annual lease payments, includ­ing interest, would be 1817,000 a year, putting the 10-year lease cost at more than $8 million. Security Pacific Leasing of San 

ARUNGTON, Va. -Washington 
Redskins quarterback joe Theis­
mann yesterday was scheduled for 
more surgery to repair a compound 
fracture of his right leg that 
threatened to end his 12-year Na­
tional Football League career. 
Theismann, 36, who was operated 
on shortly after being injured in 
Monday night game's against the 
New York Giants, was undergo a 
second round of surgery today, ac­
cording to Arlington Memorial 
Hospital spokes~oman Usa Flynn. 
Dr. Charles jackson, the team physician, said after completing the first surgery at I :30 a.m. EST yester­day: "X-rays showed very good posi­tion ofthe bone, and the prognosis is good." 
He was not available for comment late yesterday. 
While the team continued to express optimism about Theis­mann's eventual return, experts in bone fractures said it Is doubtful from a property tax levy that would start in 1987. City Controller Mic­hael Vance said the levy would amount to 13.75 cents for each I I00 ofassessed valuation. 


The stadium would be the home of a Class A baseball franchise that would compete in the Midwest Professional Baseball League. 
Supporters of the stadium plan claim that the facility will not mean an increase in taxes for city property owners. 
"We object to the misinformation put forth by the administration," said joseph Guentert, chairman of the St. joseph County Fair Tax As­sociation. The mayor struck out in his bond petition for $3.86 million. The mayor struck out on his J 1 mil­lion private fundraising. 
"If all of his petition signers came together they would not fill the stadium," Guentert said. "We object to the use of public funds for a private purpose and the signing of a contract with a corporation which can dissolve itself at any time." 
David Nowak gave the council a petition with 52 signatures against the stadium. 
"I walked around my neighbor­hood for a short period of time and found the property owners more than happy to sign this petition," Nowak said. "They do not want this basebaU stadium shoved down their throats." 
Renelda Robinson told the coun­cil that the stadium would be good for the city's youth. 
"This is a real positive step for our community," said jan jakiel, presi­dent of the South Bend-Mishawaka Area Chamber of Commerce. "A multipurpose stadium can really make an Impact on our community. Convention and tourism is real today. There is competition out there for the franchise." 

Francisco would build the stadium and the lease would be financed 
Theismann's fracture could end his long-playing career with Redskins 
with the type of the injury he suf­
fered that Theismann will ever take 
another snap. 
Although other doctors had not 
seen the X-rays, they said television 
replays showed the injury's severity. 
"It's possible that he can return, but my candid view is that it is unlikely," said Dr. Robert Neviaser, deputy chief of orthopedic surgery at George Washington University Hospital. 
"There is a strong possibility that this is career-ending," he said. "It's going to be a long, hard road to hoe to rehabilitate that leg. He could surprise everybody and I hope that he does, but it will be difficult." 
Dr. Richard Wells, co-director of the sports medicine clinic at Geor­getown University Hospital, agreed that even if the cast comes off as early as May, Theismann's rehabilita­tion could keep him out of next season. 
"It would take six to nine months to put weight on it, then another 
three months after that to get the leg 
back to normal," said Wells. "It 
would be tough for a normal person, 
much less for a professional, scram­
bling quarterback." 
Theismann suffered the injury when he was sacked in the second quarter of the Redsklns' 23-21 vic­tory. He was trying to twist away from linebacker Lawrence Taylor, who hit him low, when linebacker Gary Reasons fell on Taylor, trap­ping the quarterback's leg under­neath. 
A television replay showed Theismann's right leg crumbling un­der the weight. 

jackson described the injury as "an open compound fracture of the tibia and fibula," the shin bone and a bone adjacent to it. He said "the fracture is right at the boot line. The bone has some other cracks in it." 
Theismann will wear a full leg cast for at least six weeks, then in a half cast. "We're talldng about six months at least," said jackson, before the quarterback can begin walking without a cast. 
I 
~~--------------­
I 
The Observer Wednesday, November 20,1985-page 14
I 
l 
Heffern gains starting 
I 
I 
l ~ 

I role on all-veteran line 
By NICK SCHRANTZ about their slants and stunts, and Spor-ts Writer their tendencies."
~ ~ 
The Irish offensive line struggled ~ Shawn Heffern headed into the at the start ofthe year, but except for I 1985 season as probably the least the Penn State game they have come 
known of the all senior Notre Dame together to play a key role in the offensive line, but he earned the team's success during the middle of! starting position at strong guard in the schedule.I the first game against Michigan. During the team's four game win­Tim Scannell, Tom Doerger, and ning streak on the recent homes­
~ 
Mike Perrino all started regularly tand, neither the offensive line as a
~ 
last year, while Ron Plantz was a group In fact, the line only seems
I 
starter for four games despite in­to get noticed when the quarterback
I 
juries. Heffern had played in 1 5 gets sacked or the running back gets
~ ~ 
games the past two years for the tackled for a big loss. This doesn't I Irish, bufall those were as a rese.-ve. seem to bother the linemen, as they ~ Thus, many Irish football obser­continue to work baed and succeed 
vers were surprised to hear the in obscurity. name Shawn Heffern when the start­"We get our recognition when Al­ing lineups were announced. Hef­len (Pinkett) has a good day or Steve fern did not gain the position by (Beuerlein) doesn't get sacked," default though, since he had to beat Heffern explained "I get satisfaction out veteranJohnAskin duringspring and feel personal pride in just doing and fall practices for the spot. my best. I feel great whenever Allen 
Playing guard was a change foe gets 150 yards." Heffern, because in 1984 he served Despite the rushing and scoring as a backup to Perrino at the strong records set by Pinkett, along with tackle position. He played in all fine play In some games, Heffern still games but three as both the number­isn't satisfied with the year. one reserve at his position and on ''I'm not satisfied with how I've the special teams. been playing because there is always 
Heffern's move to guard wasn't a room for improvement," he said. "I complete shock, as he played the don't think I'll ever be totally happy position during the 1983 campaign with how I play because I canalways and saw action in six games. improve." 
The 6-5, 266 pound senior com­"This season hasn't gone as I had mented on the reasons for his latest planned," he explained. "No matter success as a starter. what people say, the team docs have 
"My main asset as a player is con­the will to win. Sometimes we just sistency," he stated. "That is very im­have trouble accomplishing it." portantfor an offensive lineman, and The Irish's relative lack ofsuccess I'm trying to become more consis­this year and in years past troubles tent as the season goes on." Heffern because ofhis big success in 
high school. The Carmel, Indiana, "Moving to guard wasn't a big 
native helped his team to state change because I had played that 
championships his final two years, before," he continued. "Strong while he was named first-team all­tackle has more one-on-one blocks state on both offense and defense his on both runs and passes, while guard senior year. In addition, he was is a little different because there ace 
voted as the Indiana player of the more pulls and combinations." year in 1981. Besides playing several line posi­
Even though things haven't gone tions, Heffern experienced the other 
as planned, Heffern still remains side of the line as a defensive 
positive about his decision to come lineman in 1982. He came to Notre 
to Notre Dame. Dame as a 6-5,225 pound freshman, "I really am glad I came here," he and after the year he realized he was 
stated. "I've learned and matured a not big enough to handle defensive 
lot, and not only in football. I learned tackle line play and pass coverage. 
how to handle the pressure, and I Thus, the move to offense seemed got a great education." necessary. 
Heffern has enjoyed Notre Dame Despite his troubles on defense, 
so much that he has decided to Heffern's experience there and at 
return next year for another year of both guard and tackle have aided his 
football, which he is eligible for be· progress as an offensive lineman. 
cause he didn't see action as a fresh­"Having a general knowledge of 
man. He will earn his degree in different offensive line positions economics this year, and then will helps because you know what the 
return to graduate school during his people around you will do," he com­final year offootball. mented. "It really helps to have an The Irish will gladly have Heffern all-senior line because you get used 
back next year, as the other four to people, and that's really Impor­starting linemen will graduate. Hef­tant on the offensive line because fern came into the 1985 season as 
everyone has different styles." the least experienced and least 
"Even knowing about the known of the starting linemen, but defensive line helps somewhat," he 1986 will be different in these continued. "I know the techniques regards due to his experience the linemen wtU u.e apiost me, gained this year. 


Notre Dame volleyballplayers Kathy Baker(9), Maureen Shea (11), and Kathleen Morin (3) are seen here in action against Eastern Michigan last 
help Notre Dame tie the score at 15-1 blitzkrieg of the Irish and 
12-12. force the decisive fifth game. 
From there, the "veterans" on That's when the young Irish continued from page 16 the court took over. Kathleen showed surprisingly good poise. 
her 22 digs Tuesday played a big Morin and Jill Suglich (both of Just when it looked like the Irish 
role in the Irish victory. whom landed spots on the might fold up the tents and go 
Another unsung hero for the second team All-North Star Con­home, Notre Dame roared to a 9­Irish had to be outside hitter ference squad) scored a block i lead and sent the Hurons pack­Kathy Baker. Used sparingly this and a kill respectively, and the ing. Zanette Bennett keyed the season, Baker made the most of emotional Irish came up with the easy win with four of her 13 kills an opportunity last night, coming win In game two. on the evening, while Baker off the bench to score seven kills Notre Dame proceeded to drilled home three kills. and spark the team to a dramatic breeze through game three with The Irish can't spend much turnacound in the second game. a 15-6 win, but suddenly, Eastern time savoring the win, as the 
When Baker entered the con­Michigan came back on the remainder of the schedule is as 
test, Notre Dame had alceady lost strength of one of its own fresh­delightful as a field trip to death 
the first game handily and tcailed men. Middle blocker Lisa Hen­row. It starts when 14th-ranked 
8-3 in the second. Baker served derson took charge at the net, Arizona State pays a visit to the 
up an ace to start the comeback scoring several ofher match-high ACC for the home finale Saturday 
and added a couple of kills to 18 kills to lead the Hurons to a night. 
Irish 


-I 
0 

WED.­
$.75 Mixed Drinks!! 

BAND -EASY STREET THURS.-$.90 IMPORTS!! Semper Fi and A 1 umni Senior Club present Toys for Tots! 

bring your toys to the Club! 


FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1069 239-7521 
-~------------~-------~ -----------~ 





T0 day____________________
w_e_d_n_e_s_d_a_y._,N_o_v_e_m_b_er_z_o_._l_9_s_s_..P._a.;g_e_l_s Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
... 


SOl II NEW NOS! ~ EJY fl¥?($, eH '?/ C()J'JM/W/?e/? 8Y TIE' WIU. OF 1116 P!OP/.c, eH ? mrs rs PeWJCKIK:Y 
f((JN Wit./?/! 

Zeto 
ACROSS 1 Hamlet e.g. 5 Part of an oar 
10 Uriah­14 Depraved 15 Fine station· 
ery 16 Hall-of-Farner 
Graham 17 Positions 18 Prank 19 Reo or Dodge 20 Not precise 22 Type of cable 24 Sort 25 Swiss city 26 Pedagogical 
method 30 Delighted 34 Afghan coins 35 Angers 37 Man and Wight 38 Map abbr. 39 Sklrt part 40 Square meter 42 Joke 43 Basra native 45 Church part 47 A Starr 48 Verbal noun 50 Outcasts 52 Dolt 54 -de Cologne 55 Live together 58 Any USSR 
leader 62 Saxophonetype 63 Complete 65 Opinion: pref. 66 Part of a nut 67 Official 
stamps 68 Two--sloth 69 Magnet end 70 Disintegrate 71 Sailor's saint 
DOWN 1 Where to find 
a hero 2 Bard's stream 3 Mediterranean 
resort city 4 Panac.eas 5 Tuxedo 
accessory 6 Yam fluff 
70H6CK WITH fleMOCK!ICY / WHIIT 7H/5CO(JNTRY NttPS IS fl t.lme U55 Pe"MOC/YICY/ 1.111£ ~ MONII?CHY/Ul(t ROYI/tTY/ 
'r'CAH, MY LIST" OF POSSIBLE 

S!t!R. [:IA.TE'::.S::::,L-L----J WMOS 1}4/S 
,,..,,. :L* "? 
.. t.IKC f'f?~ CHIIR/.eS IWP PlANA /,.. WHO, EJY 1He NAY, JUST VIS/TCP t.AST W6~K ... ANP WfKJ, IF I MAY 8e SO 8(){../?, COflt.(J 8071{ fi5C fl 
amt NOt£-B0881N& 


©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

Tuesday's Solution 
7 Social Insect 8 Melt 9 Repeat 
performance 10 Frauds 11 Small case 12 Miss Kett 13 Tam 21 -king 23 Broadway 
musical 25 MIT degree 26 Young fellow 27 Bizarre 28 Lucid 29 "-Ia Douce" 31 Seaweed 32 Bailey or 

Buck 11/20/85 33 SomeNCOs 47 Sourceof 58 Pinochle 36 Impudence aluminum laydown 39 Language 49 Desuetude 59 Pedestal 
of India 51 Spoil occupant 41 Practice 53 Mink's cousin 60 Appear 44 Man of La 55 David e.g. 61 Fuss 
Mancha 56 Bread spread 64 Confucian 46 Abyss 57 Lat. abbr. truth 

·'*'*'*'*'*'****'*'*''*'*'**'*'*'*'*'*'*'*:
# ETHNIC MINORITY LAW NIGHT -t+ 
+)-d N 20 i+
+J-Wednes ay. ov. +J­+J-7:30 Law School Lounge +j­*"'•Law Professors Crutchfield and Le will dlscuss+j­
l/Kt HOW 
ICAMC 
ffJ[.{. CIRCle ON 71llfT ON€ ! 
I 
Kevin Walsh 
~E'l..L.D, NA'i I REASE Sff'AI< IN ITH CAAJ.i1rT'A. CHIPMUNK? 

Campus 
•4:45 
P.M. · 6:45 P.M. · Information and Sig· nups for the "Great American Smokeout", American Cancer Society, South Dining Hall, Sponsored by University Food Services, 

•5:30 
P.M. · Presentadon and Recepdon, American Express, Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Open for Accountancy Seniors scheduled to interview with American Express 

•6:
I 5 P.M. · Meeting, Circle K, Center for So· cial Concerns 

•7:00 
P.M. -Meeting, Notre Dame Toastmasters Club, Room 223 Hayes-Healy 

•7:00 
P.M. · Fellowsb.lp Meeting, Notre Dame Spiritual Rock, Keenan Hall Chapel 

•7:00 
P.M. · Lecture, Nutrition for Athletes: Myth vs. Reality, Joanne Slavin, University of Minnesota, little Theater, LaFortune Student Center, Sponsored by Non-varsity Athletics 

•7:00 
P.M.· Lecture, "Political Formation of the American Welfare State", Theda Skocpol, University of Chicago, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Department ofSociology 


-------...
FREE! 

REGUlAR RAXs
WITH PURCHASE OF REGUlAR FRIES AND MIDIUM DRINK 
fit the role of minorities In the legal profession. +J-Our famous Rax roast beef, sliced +j-• Dean Mclean will discuss law school # =:_.r:_u_:.~is.'!;1i.nd ..rvec~ on a#admission criteria and financial ald. * =.::-.:.~"':':.'7'N::t":~.;.::
...llon 

+l-•Question and Answer period Involving * ~ls~.e~~..~~~=:!r>g *students and a Notre Dame Law School panel#I 
I

!. ..r.J..I I&
Thl1 Ia the lint event In a continuing program dnlgned to ....,... familiarize minority 1tudenta with opportunltinln the legal ....,...+}-prof-lon: Ethnic Minority Night I• hosted bv the Notre t)o Offergood Dame Law School In cooperation with the ND/SMC Pre Law ..r.J..I •j85 
J

Socle· ....,... tlaru J2/2~ •
$
'****'*'*'*'**'*'*'*'*'*'*'*'*'*'*'*'*'*?L.------­
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Garlic Baked Chicken Spaghetti with Meat Sauce Stir Fry Seafood Baked Swiss and Tomato Sandwich 
TV Tonight 
7:00P.M.  16  MASH  
22  Three's Company  
7:30P.M.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP In Cincinnati  
8:00P.M.  16  Highway to Heaven  
22  CBS Special Movie: "Lost In Lon·  
don"  
28  1bc Insiders  
~  RiverJourneys  
8:30P.M.  46  Renewed Mind  


Cl 1985 Un•versal Press SyndiCate 
Dog endorsements 
•7:00 
P.M. -Egyptian FUm Series, "Aiexandria...why?", Zakaryia Abaid, com­mentary, ETS Theater, CCE, Spo_nsored by Mediterranean/Middle East Concentration in Anthropology 

•7:00, 
9:00 and II:00 P.M. · Movie, "Against All Odds", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, J I.50 

•7:30 
P.M. · Get together, Spanish Club, Cente~ for Social Concerns 

•7:30 
P.M. · Ethnic Minority Law Ni&ht, Representatives from the Notre Dame Law School, Law School Lounge, Sponsored by Notre Dame Law School and Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Pre-Law Society 

•7:30 
P.M. · Movie and Lecture, Movie: "South Africa: The Nuclear File", theryl Harris, Coalition for Illinois Disinvestment from South Africa, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Stu­dent Government and Peacemakers 


Saint Mary's Turkey Cutlet with Parsley Sauce 
9:00P.M. 
!O:OOP.M. 
!0:30P.M. 
Fillet of Fish Parisienne Fresh Vegetable Omelet 
Footlong Hotdogs  
16  HeUtown  
28  Dynasty  
~  Creation orthe Universe  
46  J..csca Alive  
16  St. Elacwhere  
22  1bc Equalller  
28  Dynasty II: 1bcColbys  
46  Calvary Temple  
~  Spaces: The Architecture: ofPaul  
Rudolph  


SOberingAdvicEf 

cansavea~~~~' 
Think BefOre You Dr1nk -~"" 
BefOre You Dr1ve .~~-..· 

<tl tim i.' Erasaaas Books J ...... r 1027 E. W•yne 
..~• . Tun· Sun, noon. 6 ..., -1 block lOUth ofJdu.on It Eddy 
...................._..-..........--a..~ 

-

S~orts 
Irish start season with exhibition against Yugoslavian national team 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Editor 
It won't count in terms of regular season record, but tonight's exhibi­tion game with the Smelt Olimpija team of Yugoslavia will provide the Notre Dame basketball team with a chance to test its skills against someone other than itself. After weeks of practice, the Irish take to the ACC floor for the first time this season at 7:30p.m. 
Tonight's game is the seventh stop 
on an eight-game American tour by 
the Yugoslavians. Prior to last night's 
game at Valparaiso, Smelt Olimpija 
had managed a 2-3 record, beating 
Illinois-Chicago and Butler, while 
losing to Loyola, Bowling Green and Dayton. 

"They (the Yugoslavians) need exposure to the American type of finesse," said Irish coach Digger Phelps, embarking on his 15th season at Notre Dame. "That's their trouble in the Olympics all the time. They're all great shooters but they have yet to learn the finesse of the American game. 
"Just like scientists exchange ideas, we in college sports have felt that this'is one of the things we can do to bring our countries closer together. Besides helping to develop this relationship through sports, the game gives both sides an oppor­tunity to gain playing experience." 
In Smelt Olimpija's 74-72 win 
over Butler Sunday, Slobodan Sub­
otic hit a 15-foot jump shot with 
three seconds to play to give the Yugoslavs the victory. Subotic had 18 points against the Bulldogs, while Slavko Kotnik led Smelt Olimpija with 20 points. 
Notre Dame will start a lineup of David Rivers and Scott Hicks at guard, Donald Royal and Ken Barlow at forward, and Tim Kempton at center. "But who knows if they're going to be the same five that finish," added Phelps. "I'm not worried about starters. All I've got to say is that the Lakers and Celtics got where they are with their bench, and our bench will be a factor in 
how far we go this year." Jim Dolan and Gary Voce will be first off the bench up front, while 
see OPENER, page 10 


Associate A.D. O'Brien handles all financial problems for ND sports 
(Editor's note: Today The Obser­
ver begins its four-purt series on the .vurlous offices within the Notre Dame athletic depurtment. Purt one 
focuses on the business office.) 
By MARlY STRASEN 
Sports Writer 
While the fields and courts of 
Notre Dame are constantly filled 
with major college sporting events, 
the business office of the athletic 
department seldom receives the 
glory of a basket at the buzzer or a 
last-minute touchdown pass. 
Associate Athletic Director joe 
O'Brien is in charge of internal af. 
fairs dealing with business and 
finance, and he handles the "behind 
the scenes" arrangements required 
to organize sporting events at the 
university. According to O'Brien, 
the job entails more than people 
realize. 
"I'm what you can call Mr. Inside," 
he explains. "l handle the financial 
affairs, the building of the budget, 
and the monitoring ofthe budget for 
each and every department, sport 
and support group." 
Such responsibilities put O'Brien 
and the business office in touch with 
every aspect of Notre Dame sports · 
from the equipment managers and 
trainers to the ticket people and the secretaries. O'Brien describes his game-day responsibilities as the "health, safety, protection and enter­tainment" ofthe fans. 

"Anything that has to do with the 1,500 people that service you on game days is my responsibility," he says. "The security, traffic, conces­sions, parking, some 600 ushers, doctors, nurses and paramedics -all those are mine." 
Making travel aJTangements is another important task facing the business office. For football alone, 

planes are booked one year in ad­vance and hotel reservations are secured eight to ten months prior to game day. The work never ceases for O'Brien and the business staff, be· cause finance lies behind every col­lege sporting event. 
"(Financial matters) are my overall functions," O'Brien con­tinues. "Just to run the department daily means taking care of 25 to 50 purchase orders, from buying fen­cing foils to shot clocks or whatever it takes. People have to be paid, plan· ning has to be done, and policies have to be made. It's my job to keep those wheels turning. 
"It's daily routine for people to come into the office for one reason or another. Almost every coach will pass through here a couple of times per week and every support group once a day. If they're not in here, we're out there on the field and the court keeping in contact with them." 
In this day and age, college sport involves much more than can be seen in a few hours of watching television or sitting in a stadium. Books have to be balanced for every sport, whether it is football or field hockey, and the business office at Notre Dame deserves recognition for its efforts in keeping up with the business ofcollege athletics. 
"College sport is a big business," notes O'Brien. "Our challenge is to maintain fiscal stability in light of rising costs. We have been fortunate down through the years at Notre Dame to operate in the black. We've always come out ahead financially. This year we projected to break even." 
But what kind ofrespect does the business office receive operating be· hind the glory of the actual stx>rting events themselves? When business 
see SPORTS, page 12 

Wednesday,November20, 1985-page 16 

~ 
I 
The ot.enrr/HIUlnea Hockrr 

Notre Dume .fresbmlln lxuketbull player Michael Smitb (32) from Soutb Bend, IN tulles the bull up-court In a recent pructtce session. The Irish beginning their season tonlgbt aguinst the Smelt Ollmpiju teamfrom YugosluvUl. 
Women's volleyball goes to underclassmen to gain win 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports writer 
The "kiddie corps" made an old man out ofArt Lambert. 
Disappointed with the perfor· mance of his upperclasswomen, the Notre Dame volleyball coach played a lineup composed offreshmen and sophomores Tuesday night against Eastern Michigan. Then Lambert had to sit and watch his team dig itself a big hole before climbing out to earn a 4-15, 15-12, 15-6, 1-15, 15-4 vic­tory before a crowd of 176 fans at the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The win raises Notre Dame's record to 12-18, but more impor­tantly, it shows the Irish have some talented performers to form a nucleus for the future. Heroes were plenty, as the Irish managed to come up with the big points which have 
eluded  them  so  many  times this  
season.  
What  allowed  Notre  Dame  to  

score those points, however, was its defense, which was spectacular for most of the night. Freshman Whit· ney Shewman may not win many games during her~ Notre Dame career with her spiking ability, but 
see IRISH, page 14 


ND basketball team will face great expectations 
Yugoslavia is a country known more as the starting point on the road to the Big War than as the home of a team on the road to The Final Four. That shouldn't change at all tonight when Yugoslavia's Smelt Olimpija gives the Notre Dame men's basketball team a season-opening tuneup at theACC. 
It's not that Yugoslavia isn't capable of upsetting the Irish; already on this trip they've beaten Butler, a team which Notre Dame lost to last year. Yet it is still highly unlikely that an upset will occur again tonight. After all, Yugoslavia is so small it has enough trouble making the national news, although in that area it do~s have to com­pete in the mighty Southeast European Conference. At any rate there is not as high a priority there on building or buying a basketball power as there is here in the U.S., and therefore the Irish should have few problems with the touring Slavs. 
Thus it should be an entirely congenial and diplomatic affair tonight when the two squads tip off. King Richard 'Digger' Phelps will be there with carnation on, leading his court of Donald Royal-ty and the rest of the knights of the round ball into what many observers are predictingwill be the most successful Irish season in years. 
In fact, it seems even David "Einstein-Michelangelo" Rivers could not dish out as many preseason accolades as the Irish have been getting from the people who are supposed to know about these sorts ofthings. 
The Sporting News, Sport Magazine, Inside Sports, and Street and Smith's Basketball Guide all invited Notre Dame 

Marty
Burns 
Assistant Sports Editor 
to crash their top-20 parties, with Sports Illustrated slight· ing the Irish by putting them first on the next-20 waiting list. 
The Irish, of course, would love to gratefully decline these advances to be guests ofhonor at another respected, ahem, sports publication which supposedly can throw a really big blowout of its own. Playboy Magazine ranked Notre Dame number-one in its preseason poll (or so I've been told.) 
Still, this bold prediction is not that hard to believe from an institution which has made its fortune in daring stunts. The Sporting News, a highly-respected and traditional bas­tion ofsports journalism, meanwhile, has given Irish fans a real reason to get excited. Their seventh-place ranking of Phelps' team lends an awful lot oflegitimacy to fans' hopes. From all present signs, Notre Dame can be one ofthe best teams in the nation this year. 
This news is no news to students, of course. They have willingly bought every available ticket in the house in hopes ofseeing the Irish bring it down like they often did last year with their intense · and, at times stunning, play. Those students and those fans will be there again this year, but only in much greater numbers than anybody has seen around here in awhile. 
"The more the merrier" is a thought which undoubtably appeals to Phelps and many of those excited by the chances ofNotre Dame going very far this year. But there's also a saying that goes, "the bigger they are the harder they fall", and that may just happen if expectations are built up so high that even leapers like Kenny Barlow, Scott Hicks, and Mark Stevenson can't reach them. 
At this time last season not much was expected of the Irish. There was a faithful core offans who bought season tickets and who subsequently were rewarded and delighted by the surprising play of their schoolmates. While the team dazzled observers by playing above the rim, it also was playing above its head and above expecta­tions. This pleased fans, many ofwhom had been let down too often by trumped-up football hopes. 
Accordingly, when the flashy Rivers dribbled the ball and Notre Dame's NCAA tournament hopes off the foot of North Carolina's joe Wolf last March in the ACC, there were very few angry Notre Dame students. All were disap­pointed, but most realized that the Irish had played a fine game and had had a great year. It was a strange bit ofirony that it was the irrepressible Rivers who ultimately popped the bubble when he was responsible for so much of its inflation. 
see FANS, page 10 





