
-----~-­
--~ -­
Curriculum -page 4 

VOL XIX, NO. 107 the: indc:pc:ndc:nt ~tudc:nt nc:w~papc:r serving notre Jame and saint mary's TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 1985 

Program provides an alternative for off-campus housing 
By TIMOTHY GIANOTII Both of these areas are "target purchased a house in the near­Senior StaffReporter areas" for NHS, a non-profit corpo­northwest neighborhood more ration which has been dedicated to than a year ago, and has since 

Neighborhood Housing Services the revitalization of South Bend become a showcase example of of South Bend is offering a new al­neighborhoods since 1979. The NHS success. He now lives in his ternative to students who wish to near-nonhwest neighborhood was restored home on Cushing Street live off-campus: the purchase of the first community in the city to and rents out the second story. their own home. be targeted, and while work is still Kennedy now sits on the Near­
Especially in the northeast and going strong there, NHS has Northwest Neighborhood Advi­near-northwest neighborhoods -decided to move into the north­sory Committee and is a big the two most popular student east as well. supporter of NHS. He admits that neighborhoods -NHS is ready and "We want to promote home­buying a house as a student can be willing to help prospective ownership," Hardy said, and he a frightening prospect, but he en­homeowners buy and restore saw no problem in supporting sin­courages it nevertheless. "It's houses. cere students who are interested worth it," he said. 
"Housing can be acquired at in what NHS has to offer. "We are He sees the present dilapidated rental market rates," said NHS Ex­concerned about the housing con­condition of both neighborhood ecutive Director Bill Hardy. "It is ditions for students, and we are target areas as a great opportunity an excellent way to get started, and getting students who are inter­for the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's then you can start building equity. ested in buying houses." community. The prices are "very It is very affordable housing with John Kennedy, a graduate eco­tremendous potential." nomics student at Notre Dame, see NHS page 4 
Community revitalization is NHS goal 
By TIMOTHY GIANOTII representatives, educational and financial assistance, said Hardy, Senior StaffReporter medical institutions, government involves working with lending in­programs and officials, and com­stitutions to design loans which 
Community revitalization is the munity residents, he said. will conform to the needs of each fire Neighborhood Housing "I think we have really individual, a factor which makes Services is trying to spark in South broadened our focus since we NHS programs available to lower Bend, and it goes far beyond the started in 1979," he said. "Our mis­income families and individuals renovation of houses and low­sion is to leave a community with a who would otherwise fail to interest loans, said Executive strong group ofleaders and a com­qualify for a loan. Director Bill Hardy. munity that can deal with all ..:.;:&; 
"It is a complete neighborhood aspects of neighborhood life." Financial assistance also m­program," Hardy said. It involves "Basically, we offer two things," volves personal budget and finan­the participation of local financial he said, "financial assistance and institutions, businesses, real estate technical assistance." see GOALS, page 4 
The: Obocrvcc/Nicholu Grlllln 
Neighborhood Housing Seroices Executive Director Bill Hardy stands in front of one of the refurbished homes in the Northwest Target area ofSouth Bend. Stories at left. 

There are only two on the map 
St. Mary's andSt.]oseph's are the two lakes on the parking lots was one ofmany caused byyesterday's map of Notre Dame, but this one seen in the rainstorms. 



Claim of commissoner clarified 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
StaffReporter 
Tracy 'Race' Thoman is not the off-campus commissioner as re­ported yesterday and stated in her · campaign posters and classified ad­vertising in The Observer. 
"Race Thoman is not the off­campus commissioner," said Cathy David, student body vice president and chairwoman of the ad hoc com­mittee controlling elections. 
"Doug Honeywell is the off­campus commissioner and while Race has done a good deal of work 

Overhaul resolution tabled after discussion in Student Senate 
ByMIKE MILLEN 
Senior StaffReporter 
After a heated debate, the Student 
Senate last night tabled a resolution 
calling for a general overhaul of stu­
dent government. 
Presented by the Committee for 
Restructuring Student Government, 
and authored by Executive Coordin­
ator Doug Wurth, the plan calls for a 
new senate to be composed of 24 
hall senators, devoid ofclass officers 
and hall presidents. It also contains 
provisions to make the Judicial 
Council and Campus Life Council 
purely advisory bodies. 
Lee Broussard, who was unani­mously approved by the senate as the 1985-1986 Student Activities Board Manager, was unhappy with the proposed removal of Ideas and Issues and Campus Services from his jurisdiction. 
"Student Activities Board has a cenain rolcr on campus. It's perform­ing that well. I don't see why we need to break it up," he said, adding ·"ifyou look at other schools, are stu­dent government and student activi­ties one big organization, or are they separate? I think you'll find the lat­
ter." 
President-elect Bill Healy said the 
plan's purpose was to "provide ac­
countability." Currently, the Stu­
dent Senate is informed of the 
board's expenditures only at the end 
ofeach fiscal quarter. 
Jim Domagalski, sophomore class 
president, and Dean Christy, senior class president~ both spoke against the exclusion of class presidents from the proposed senate. Christy argued there were instances when it is was important classes be represented, citing last year's pro­posal to raise the student activities fee. 
Wurth disagreed. He said the ac­
tivities fee was no more a class issue 
than any other. Senator Tom Abood 
also thought class officers had no 
place on the senate. "I don't think 
class presidents need a vote," he 
said. 
Senators were generally divided 
on the issue ofreducing the Campus 
Life Council to an advisory body. 
Wunh said, "We don't see the logic 
of student referendums being voted 
upon by faculty and administrators." 
SenatorJavier Oliva was not in favor 
of that part of the proposal. He said 
the opinions of faculty and adminis­
trators on some issues are impor­
tant. 
After more than 70 minutes of debate, the entire proposal was tabled. It will be discussed in a spe­cial senate meeting scheduled for this Thursday. 
Karen McCloskey and Ed Augustine, chairpersons ofthe Com­mittee to Lobby for Student Finan­cial Aid, said they will make postcards available, which students concerned with President Reagan's proposed budget cuts could fill out. The pre-addressed, pre-stamped cards will be in the dining halls Sun­day and Monday. 
for and with him, she does not serve as the off-campus commissioner," David said. 
"No, I'm not the OC commis­sioner," Thoman said, ''I'm acting in Doug's place. It is not a re-election. 
"He still attends the HPC meetings. I'm just acting." 
She explained that she got a letter from the student body treasurer (AI Novas,) which was addressed to the "acting OC_commissioner." "I didn't just make it up," she said. 
In Thoman's posters, the fourth paragraph begins, "I am currently the acting O.C. Commissioner." Her classified advertisement said, "Elect current O.C. Commissioner Tracy (Race) Thoman for another year of 
O.C. Freeedom!" 
Tom 'Beaver' McDonald, who is also running for the position and was was unavailable for comment on his unavailable for comment on his plat­form yesterday, said, "people move off-campus for both social life and community service. I spend most of my time off-campus, so the fact that I don't live OC now won't really mat­ter too much. 
Honeywell was unavailable for comment on the discrepancy. 

The Observer Tuesday, March 5, 1985 -page 2 
' 
• 

In Brief 
When Putnanl County' Tenn. officials want to talk to County Attorney jerry Burgess, they have to let their feet do the walking. And they're not happy about it. Burgess, an elected official, had the telephone removed from his office last fall. His home phone number is unlisted. "He doesn't have a phone, he doesn't have a CB, he doesn't have a satellite. You have to go to him," said Jim Copeland, chairman of the county planning commission. "Ifhe's not there, you leave a note and hope he'll get back in touch," Copeland said. Efforts to reach Burgess for comment were unsuccessful. -AP 
Actress Lynne Frederick, the widow of actor Peter Sellers, testified yesterday in London during her $2 million lawsuit concerning a film composed ofunused footage ofSellers. She believes "The Trail of the Pink Panther" included some of her hus­band's worst work. Frederick, 30, is suing director Blake Edwards, United Artists and Lakeline Productions, which is owned by Ed­ward's wife, actress Julie Andrews. She told the High Court the ftlm was an insult to Sellers, who died in 1980, and was made without her consent. "It was representative of Peter's worst work rather than his best," she said. The ftlm, released in 1982, was made from clips which were not used in the previous "Pink Panther" movies, which Edwards also directed. The defendants contend they own the neces­sary copyrights and were entitled to make the film. -AP 
Christie Brinkley, who is launching a line of casual wear and swimsuits bearing her name, said 10 years' experience as one of the world's most sought-after fashion models has given her a feel for the kind ofclothes today's woman needs. Russ Toggs, Inc. of New York, the manufacturer, "very definitely wanted me to be in­volved in the designing, not only doing the personal appearances," she said last week during a visit to a Los Angeles department store to promote the line. Brinkley, 30, is engaged to marry rock star Billy Joel in April. -AP 
Liberal and conservative attitudes were strongly mixed among 1985 freshmen in a survey by the University of California-Los Angeles and the American Council on Education. A majority ofthe students label themselves "middle-of-the-road," with "liberal" coming in just ahead of"conservative."-The Obseroer 
Author George Plimpton paid a visit to Norfolk, a western Nebraska town, to research an "explosive" story-an inter­view with fireworks inventor Orville Carlisle. The article, which will appear in a spring issue of Esquire magazine, is part of a series on "Great Americans" -not necessarily famous people, but those who embody "the soul of America," Plimpton said during his weekend visit. Plimpton met Carlisle, inventor of a toy rocket and an ardent collector of fireworks, several years ago at a fireworks convention. The author included photos ofsome items in Carlisle's collection in his recent book "Fireworks." -AP 

Elegy for a brutish Saint 
"But then they danced down the street like dingledodies, and I shambled after as I've been doing all my life after people who interest me, because the only peoplefor me are the mad ones, the ones who are mad to live, mad to talk, mad to be saved, desirous of everything at the same time, the ones who neveryawn orsay a commonplace thing, but burn, burn, burn like fabulousyellow roman candles exploding like spiders across the stars and in the middleyou see the blue cen­terlight pop and everybody goes 'Awww!' " -jack 
Kerouac, "On the Road." 
Frank was a tired, mean old man. He owned and worked in Chicago liquor stores and taverns until Satur­day, the day he died at the age of67. 
He wore a grey goatee and had shocking grey and black hair. He always wore a huge gold ring that had his initials, "FM," emblazoned in diamonds in the middle. 
A long time ago he broke a hip, and he walked with a cane and a limp ever since. 


Dan 
McCullough 
News Editor 
Frank was a wily old man. He would wink at the whis­key women. Even into his final days he still was tossing smart-mouthed underage hoods out into the night 
. street. He possessed among the employees, and even among the owners, a bad ass admiration. Frank had his share offriends. Mostly they were life­long drunks who came into the store two or three times a day. No matter how bad-offthey were, however, Frank would always give them a "hello" and a "howsitgoin' " before sending them back into their nightmarish lives. A continual flow of young guys passed through the
He couldn't get around very easily, but he always got to payroll sheets of the liquor work at a liquor store on store. Usually the guys time. started working there when 
And one hot Chicago sum­they were in the first or mer he taught a young man second year of high school, about life. and they would leave a few 
Frank led a full life. He was years later for college or for 
raised on the streets during a better-paying job. the Great Depression. He But old Frank was there, worked and sweated and content to spend the rest of fought his way to a decent his life on the job, content to living for his wife and see the young guys come 
children. They took vaca­and go as he grew older and tions, they had fights, and as his once virile body failed they made up. And Frank him again and again. continued going to work at Frank taught people les­whatever tavern employed sons. He wasn't a preacher him at the time. or even a very virtuous man, 
In his later years, he was sometimes nasty. He would snarl and snap at the little kids taking too much time over the candy bars or at the little old ladies who came in after Mass for a wine they couldn't choose for themselves. 
To the younger guys who worked in the store, he would tell stories ofhis wild youth and his wilder adul­thood. And his narratives always were told with a sense ofregret. But the regret was never for the things he did, but for the days that were gone. 
His gravel voice would rattle off details of crazy nights ofcar stealing, joy riding, drunkenness, sexand-­more often than not --violence. 
A group of younger guys perpetually listened to the old man. Sometimes they would laugh at his stories. Sometimes they would make fun ofhim behind his back and between each other they would pretend to doubt his stories. But there was always a certain amount of respect for Frank, because they privately knew the stories were true. 
but he taught everybody he 

came in contact with something new about life. His 
knowledge ran deeper than the knowledge learned in 
schools or on the streets. His was a knowledge earned 
from years ofhard and tough living. 
Frank was a brutish saint. And it was this quality which endeared him to the people that knew him, even when they hated him. 
Frank is dead now. His stories will continue to be told Jor a while, maybe a few years, and then they, too, will be dead. Memories will forget who the old man was. And he'll be just another gravestone. 
But the lessons of a mad old man will continue to 
strive in the dark, wild eyes of youth. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 

Of Interest 
The Notre Dame L-5 Society will sponsor a public debate on the Reagan administration's proposed "Star Wars Space Defense Program." Participating in the debate will be a representa­tive from the Fusion Energy Foundation and a representative from the Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign. The debate will be tonight at 7:30 in the LaFortune Little Theater and will be open to the public. -The Observer 

Weather 
-----~ 
Clearing tonight, which means the sun may make an appearance before spring [ break. The high tomorrow is expected to climb to the mid 30s. The winds will continue from the west at I 5 to 20 mph. And if the sun does not come out -12 days until spring break. 




~~:I 

The..Observer-
The OI»Krw:r (USPS S99 2·4000) is published Monday through friday and on home footbaU Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The ObKI'V<:r is published by the studentsof the Unlversiry of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUcge. Subscriptions may be purchased for J30 per year ( J20 per se· mcstcr) by writing The Observcr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 465'16. 
The Obaerver is a member of The= AMoclated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 

Design Edltor ................................ Andy Saal Design Asslstant........jane Anne Rledford Layout Staff........... Melissa Warnke, Alice Kroeger Typesetters....jennifer Bigou, Tracy Brin· gardner News Edltor............................john MenneU Copy Editor ................................. Frank Lipo Sports Copy Editor.................. Mary Sieger Vleupolnt Copy Editor......... Cindy Boyle VIewpoint Layout................ J(c,vln Becker F"'atures Copy Editor......... Theresa Keefe Features Layout............. Catherine Colfee Typist ................................... Gina farabough 
ND Day Edltor......................Aimee Storrin SMC Day Editor ............... Toni Rutherford Ad Design ......... Anna Marie furleigh, Usa Dickinson Photographer .................... Nicholas Griffin 

FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"An· .11o" OK 111 dril'f'!" "What~ afi•ll' hl'l'l~~~· 
''IJid !filii /uti'(' /1111 IIIIIch /11 r!l·i11k r "I'IIIJH'1.1i•ctl!f.f/lle." 

SObering~·~' 
"Arr· .Ifill/ i11 1111!/ shaJH' lu dril•rf' "l'1•r• llf'l'r'l'.fi'/1/wllel:" 
cansavea11~-~;£.~. ; 
"ffhi11k !fOII,I'f' had a.f(•ll' fOOII/1111!/·" Think Before You Drink ~~ ~ ·r;111 kirldi11, 1 m11 d1·;,.e 
Before You Drive .~ ­
ll'ilh lll!f i'!fi'S closed." 
"HIII'I'e /i(l(/loo 11111('/i lo dri11k, /elllll'driue." "Nobod!f rll·il'f'.~ "'!!car bllllill'." 
....................................................................................................................................................1 

BANKING... 
ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bonk's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center. offers free checking to Saint Mary's I and Notre Dome students and faculty. In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 bonking locations to serve you I 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~ source 
Join Michiono's 1st Team ~Bank 
Member F.D.I.C.


for unsurpassed bonking service I 
....................................................................................................................................................i 

The Observer 
Tuesday, March 5, 1985-page 3 





Seventh ticket named in class race, previously omitted by Cathy David 
By CHRIS SKORCZ presidential candidate Roberts said, Student Body Vice President StaffReporter "Our main idea is a service project Cathy David explained the absence for the needy in South Bend around of the Lowney ticket as "nothing There is a seventh ticket running Christmas. As far as social functions, more than an oversight on my part. I 
for next year's sophomore class we want to have a Winter Carnival, a am sorry." 
leadership. sort ofwintertime An Tostal. 
This ticket is composed of Steve "Since we are the first class to hope to resume Little Sibs' weekend. Lowney, Carrie Roberts, Kevin have to deal with the alcohol policy We want to establish a sophomore Gleason, and Ann Shipman. for four years, we are encouraging class loan fund like the fund Morris­
Speaking for the ticket, vice non-alcoholic alternatives. We also sey has." 

ND's justice week to be a preview 
By CHRIS SKORCZ apartheid and the cessation of rac­from the South Bend area participat­StaffReporter ism in the United States. ing. I am not sure of the number of On Thursday, April 18, college students going to Washington, but 
Peace with Justice Week at Notre students, faculty and staff will gather there are two organizations co­Dame will provide a taste of bigger for the 1985 University Lobby to sponsoring the trip, the Student Or· things to come next month in Wash­End the Arms Rat:e. T'le lobby day ganization for Latin America and ington, D.C. will feature briefings by Washington Students for the Freeze. 
The series ofevents at the Univer­arms control lobbyists, meetings "On Monday, the various freeze sity includes films and lectures on with legislators and a chance to groups will be visiting with mem­business ethics, abortion, racial dis­share experiences with campus bers of Congress--including crimination in South Africa, the nu­delegates from around the country. Indiana's Senators Lugar and Quayle clear arms race and several other and Representative Hiler--because
Lobby Day is being sponsored by
related topics. that week legislation for a compre­
United Campuses to Prevent Nu­
The week is coordinated by the hensive nuclear freeze will be intro­
clear War. Yale University's Students 
Center for Social Concerns and the duced."
for Nuclear Disarmament is leading
Network for Peace and Justice, and Sara Phillips, coordinator for
the effort to encourage participation 
runs through Thursday. justice and peace education at the 
in Lobby Day. 
CSC, said, "Lobbying is a key tool in aThis local program will serve as a Michael Wishnie, a key organizer democratic society. In issues of precursor to a larger. nationwide at Yale, said the objectives of the human rights, it can make a differ­protest march in Washington, the Lobby Day are, "a renewed effort to ence. For example, the efforts forweekend ofApril 19-22. 
curb the spiraling nuclear competi· 'bread for the world' got money rec­
On the agenda for the march are tion by demonstrating the presence hanneled directly into food aid. 
four major topics: U.S. military inter­of a well-informed and active "Notre Dame has potential in 
vention in Central America; the campus movement for arms con­dealing with social issues. The cen­
creation ofjobs and the reduction of trol." ter is part ofthe educational division 
the federal defense budget; the While no groups from Notre of the University," Phillips said. 
freezing and reversal of the arms Dame will take part in the Lobby Day "We're an apolitical organization 
race beginning with a halt on the activities, there will be several local and we provide resources for stu­
testing. production, and deploy­organizations in attendance. John dents concerned about the issues." 
ment of nuclear weapons; and oppo­Monczunski, a member of the Advi­Anyone interested in Peace with 
sition to U.S. government and sory Board ofthe Network for Peace Justice Week or the protest march in 
corporate support for South African said, "There will be a delegation Washington should contact the CSC. 
By MAE WHITEMAN 
News Staff 
Overturning the student govern­ment election "woulddo more harm than good," said Ed Funai, a fresh­man who was going to try to collect approximately 1,100 signatures to attempt such an action. 
"In the printing stage, we received input from people in stu­dent government and actually never got to the signature stage," Funai said. "With Bill Healy taking over Bertino's position in one month, it is time to make the best ofit," he said. 
Funai wanted to overturn the election because "there were only a limited number of candidates, and with only 24.3 percent of the stu­dent body voting for Bill Healy, and plus the restraints put on Pat Browne and Joanie Cahill, we don't think it was a real election." 
Funai's challenge would have 


Clip and save this ad for easy travel planning! Travel United Limo to 1.1 from Chicago's O'Hare 
LEAVE LEAVE 


I ARRIVE ARRIVE 
NOTRE MICHIANA 


MICHIANA NOTRE 
DAME REGIONAL 
REGIONAL DAME 
BUS AIRPORT 
ARRIVE 
LEAVE 
AIRPORT BUS 
SHELTER SOUTH BEND 
O'HARE 
O'HARE 
SOUTH BEND SHELTER 
4:20am 4:40a.m 
6:00a.m 
8:30a.m. 
11:50a.m. 12:05 p.m.
6:20a.m. 6:40a.m. 
10:30 am.
8:00a.m. 
1:50p.m. 2:05p.m.
8·20 a.m 8:40a.m 

10:00 am. 
12:30 p.m. 
3:50p.m. 4:05p.m.
10:20 a.m. 10:40 a.m. 

12:00 p.m 
2:30p.m. 
5:50p.m. 6:05p.m.
12:20 p m. 12:40 p.m. 
4:30p.m.
2:00p.m 
7:50p.m. 8:05pm.
2:20p.m 2:40p.m. 
4:00p.m.· 
6:30p.m 
9:50p.m. 10:05 p.m.
4:20p.m 4:40p.m. 
6:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
11:50p.m. 12:05 a.m. 
6 20 p m. 6:40p.m. 
8:00p.m 
10:30p.m. 
1.50a.m. 2:05a.m 
8:20p.m 8:40p.m. 

10:00p.m 
12:30 a.m 
3:50a.m. 4:05a.m. 

SOUTif BEND ARRIVALS & DEPARTURES ON SOUTif BEND TIME, EXPIRES APRIL 27,1985 FOR RESERVATIONS CALL FOR COMPLETE UST OF POINTS & TIMES. 
(219) 674-6993 

$100 off any p1zza. OR CALL YOUR $1.00 One coupon per p1zza. TRAVEL AGENT 
Off 
Fast, Free Delivery'M Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend 
Phone 277-2151 Good Mon.-fri. Only 
J rc NA 128/2H~O r 1984 Dom1no s P1zza. Inc 
been under the "Initiative" section of the constitution, which states "only 50 percent plus one" of the student body would have to vote in support of the referendum for the election to be recast. 
Healy seemed doubtful of Funai's plan when he said last week "the election is over now and we have been working with Rob Bertino and Cathy David (current student body vice president) to set up the new ad­ministration. We're working very hard in setting up an administration for next year." 
Funai said he began the action be­cause oflack ofpower ofthe student government. "I expected the stu­Uent government to have more power in college than in high · school, and the administration to have less," he said. "I didn't expect the student government to be lim­ited to being social coordinators. The students need to be unified be­hind the student body president." 
The Observer 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE 
Edttor-ln·Cblef 

A proposal to replace Notre Dame's two-course requirement In philosophy with a yearlong intro­ductory course met with some op­position during last month's session 
of the Academic Council, according to the meeting's minutes which were released Friday. 
The proposal is part ot 17-page report Issued last year by the Univer­sity Curriculum Committee. The committee's report suggested some sweeping changes In the University core curriculum, including new re­quirements for two additional courses-one in fine arts or literature and the other in history or social sci­ence. 
The Academic Council -which in­cludes students, faculty and administrators -has to accept the proposals before final approval is given by the Board ofTrustees. 
The council's meetings are closed to observers, and the minutes are 

r 
r ATT lines 
r stop calls fromDomers
I 
r r ByAMYBAKER 
News Staff 
Notre Dame: students were unable to reach out and touch anyone last Thursday afternoon because of repair work on an ATT trunk line. 
"We rarely have problems with the phone system. What happenc:d last Thursday was an accident," said Edward Hums, assistant comptroller for the University. 
The problem that occurred last Thursday prevented students from making long distance phone calls from the student system. Ron Wag· ner, a Keenan Hall junior, said he tried to call home Thursday after· noon. He attempted to use his Bell credit card number, but was unable to reach an outside operator. Wag­ner then called the Notre Dame operator and was told the system was being worked on. 
According to Hums, Indiana Bell worked on the trunk roots from ap· proximately 2 to 4 p.m. They acci· dentally had fallen down and were being readjusted. ATT patched the problem and students were able to call long distance by 4:30 that after· noon. Indiana Bell completely repaired the trunks later that day. 
Hums said that in addition to working on the trunks, the Bell sys­tem installed additional screening. This addition prevents third party calling. He said there has been fraud in the past, with students charging long distance phone calls to a third number. 
Hums said that the Notre Dame student phones were the only ones affected and last Thursday's problem was an accident. 

'---------------------------------------------~-----­
Tuesday, March 5, 1985 -page 4 
Interested individuals 


Concerns, "spoke strongly for a re· quirement" in experiential learning. Malloy said his committee "could not support a requirement" but definitely supported student volun­teer work. 
• 
A segment on drug and alcohol use will be incorporated into the physical education curriculum. Ac­cording to the minutes, "a brief dis­cussion followed on the merits of PE at a sport-oriented place like Notre Dame." 

• 
A foreign language course wiU not be required because ofa "tightly structured curricula, especially in professions-orientated colleges." Fa· ther Theodore Hesburgh, University president, reiterated his belief that foreign languages can be self-taught. 


published each month in the Notre 
Dame Report. 
During the Feb. 4 meeting of the Academic Council, a representative of the College of Business said the proposed philosophy course during the sophomore year would upset the "timing and impact" of the col­lege's current requirement of Infor· mal Logic and Ethics in Business. 
And the College ofScience argued that "the new format (would) ad­versely affect the essential con­secutive nature ofa configuration of science courses," according to the minutes. 
The philosophy department, which initially suggested the change, said introductory philoso­phy is best taught in a single course early in a student's career. 
According to the minutes, other comments during the meeting "also pointed out the potential problems in logistics for ROTC students and student who change majors." 
Representatives for the ROTC program had said earlier that the ad· 

March of Dimes 
--·BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION-Iilllil 
,-/ 
21'2-0312 277-1619 'S45.U ferrace Lane 
(St.Rd. .Z3) Aero~ from Martin's 

ditional course requirements would 
overload their students, especially 
those in engineering. A subcommit­
tee was set up last December to 
resolve the ROTC problem and 
should issue a report soon, accor­
ding to the minutes. 
The council also had some ques­
tions about the proposed 
requirement in fine arts or 
literature. 

Father Edward Malloy, associate provost and chairman of the Univer­sity Curriculum Committee, said studio or creative writing courses would not satisfy the requirement. He added that because a variety of courses would meet the require­ment, "increased load will not be borne by a single department." 
Final determination of which courses would satisfy the criteria "will probably be made by the Dean ofArts and Letters," the minutes say. 
The council also discussed at length the proposal to place another history/social science requirement in the University curriculum. 
"Father Malloy explained that the 

Men's Hair Styling at its finest ... minutes from campus ! 
Haiccut, shampoo, & blowdry 
$8.50 
(hair muilt be shampooed day ofcut) 
We are only minutes from campus ! 
NUS 
continuedfrom page 1 
attractive," said Kennedy, and NHS is very willing to assist in the financing, restoration and mainte· nance ofthe houses. 
"We're concerned with the health and safety of everybody," said Hardy, "We are working 
._,toward a healthy, self-maintaining neighborhood." And it is working, Kennedy said. "A lot of work still needs to be done, but those .of us who have been involved in the community see a dramatic difference." In the northwest, property values are just beginning to increase, and the "notion of neighborhood," said Kennedy, is building. But he em· phasized it is a very slow process, and the struggle is not over. 
(University Curriculum) Commit­tee was concerned with a perceived problem about the 'ahistorical' quality of the current curriculum," the minutes say. According to statis­tics on the Class of 1982, 16 percent of the students graduated without a course in history. 
Several members of the council asked why history could not be re­quired alone instead of a choice be· tween history and social science. The council decided that the pro· posal should suggest one history and one social science, even though the requirement could still be filled by two courses in either area alone. 
In other matters: 
• Kathleen Maas Weigert, an assis­tant director ofthe Center for Social 
are welcome to attend an open house this afternoon at 71 3 Lindsay Street, a freshly completed NHS house. It begins at 4:30 and will continue until 6. Tours will be given, and the NHS staff will be present for questions and discus­sion. 
Goals 
continuedfrom page 1 
cial counselling for those need or request it. 
"We are targeted to income people," Hardy said, "but we would certainly give assistance to anyone." 
"We have, right now, about 65 loans in service," he said, and the grand NHS investment currently 
who lower 

Tbe shaded areas on this map of portions of South Bend represent tbe major target areas oftbe Neighborhood Housing Services. Tbe NHS targets specific blocks to concentrate their revitalization efforts. Tbe Northwest Target Area (shaded area on left) is bounded by Ltncolnway West, Scott Street, Portage Avenue and Cottage lirove. The Northeast Target Area is bounded by Sorln Street, Eddy Street, Howard Street and St. Peter Street. Both areas are not far from tbe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 


After your lastexam, whattoughquestions will you still befacing? 
W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 

share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers· One· Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contocto Rev. Andre.Leveille, C.S.C. 
Vocation Director Box 541 
Notre Dome, IN 46556 
(219) 283·6385 

THE EARLY.~BIRD... ~-~~  
Classes startin in April  
LSAT Cail 01ys Evenints & weekends 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135 Educational Center  

-------------~-.... 

~i~~~_()__i_ll__t_________________T_ue-sd-~._M_arc-h5_,1_98_5__p~-e5 

Does Rice serve the best interests of the campus? 
Few issues in America wday generate more controversy than abortion. Debate on the sub­ject seems endless. In fact, it will probably continue for most of our lifetimes. Indif­ference about abortion is rare since most 
Brian McKeon 
reflecting 
people have a definite opinion as to whether 
or not abortions should be performed. 
Groups on both sides ofthe issue fight vehe­mently for their causes. For example, those who take a strong pro-life stance now judge candidates for political office solely on the basis of their abortion position. Pro-choice groups work equally hard to maintain "the right ofa woman to control her body." For the most part, the debate, while at times heated, has remained non-violent. 
Recently, though, violence has reared its ugly head. Radical opponents of abortion, frustrated by their inability to stop what they label genocide, have taken matters into their own hands, bombing clinics and offices where abortions are performed. Twenty-four such bombings occurred in 1984. The Army of God, East Coast Division, the group which claimed responsibility for an attack on a clinic in Washington, D.C. two months ago, has warned that the attacks will continue. 
Abortion foes have criticized these bom­bings. On jan. 3 of this year, President Reagan condemned the bombings as "violent, anar­chist activities" and pledged that the per­petrawrs would be brought to justice. The National Right to life Committee endorsed Reagan's condemnation. President of the group, John C. Wilkie, said, "If we were to adopt the evil tactics of those who promote abortion by using violence ourselves, we would destroy the very ethic that is the foun­dation ofour pro-life movement." 
Four people face trial later this month in 
U.S. District Court in Pensacola, Fla., accused of committing a series of bombings in that area last year. Charles Rice, professor at the Notre Dame law School, along with two others with ties to Notre Dame, have asked to join the defense. Rice is known for his anti­abortion tendencies, and he has written ex­tensively on the subject. 
A couple of questions arise in my mind. First, why are Rice and his cohorts offering to defend the actions of the accused? Second, do 
they endorse the actions of the defendants? A 
gag order issued by the judge in Florida 
prevents them from discussing the case, so we 
can only guess. 
In response to the first question, one could 
answer that all people accused in a court of 
law deserve assistance in defending them­
selves. This is no doubt true, and the legal 
code in this country operates on this premise. 
But ifthat is the sole concern of Rice's group, 
aren't there capable lawyers in Florida? 
Do they have other motives? Do they sup­
port the bombings? It is difficult to say. Rice, in 
his book, "Beyond Abortion," does not adv­
ocate such violence: "Abortion presents a dif­
ficult issue of civil disobedience." But, he 
adds, "personal injury and property damage 
must be avoided, and isolated kamikaze ac­
tions would do more harm than good." 
Has he changed his mind since then? At any 
rate, it appears that he may have had a change 
of heart concerning the use of violence. 
Volunteering to assist in the defense of a case 
hundreds of miles from South Bend suggests 
at least tacit approval ofthe bombings. This is 
not to say that lawyers who defend violent 
criminals support their crimes -ofcourse they 
do not. What I am saying is that it appears that 
the attorneys from Notre Dame seem more in­
terested in lending moral support to the cause 
of violence than in worrying if the accused 
receive an adequate defense. 
The bombing of abortion clinics may seem 
morally defensible in the eyes of some pro­
lifers. However, it remains illegal under 
federal law and is a reprehensible action 
which does little to serve the anti-abortion 
cause. For a Notre Dame professor to offer to 
defend those responsible gives these lunatics 
in Florida credibility they do not deserve (one 
of the accused, when turning himself in, said 
he received a direct order from God). 
Notre Dame students are constantly reminded by the administration that they rep­resent the good name of the school wherever ~hey go. Students even have been threatened with expulsion for actions occurring out of town during vacation periods. This, some feel, goes too far. But given that it is current Notre Dame policy, shouldn't the same standard ap­ply to faculty? Does Rice serve the best inter­ests ofNotre Dame by his actions? 
Brian McKeon is a senior government major at Notre Dame and is a regular View­point columnist. 

~=The Observer~­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either mstitution. The new5 is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opin1on of a majority of the Editoriai Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Cutting won't solve abuse of financial aid 
Going to the beach for spring break? 
Hoping to buy a car this summer? 
Not so fast, friends. William Bennett, the new secretary ofeducation, thinks 
you're trying to pull a fast one: Get a student loan and hop off to the Bahamas 
leaving David Stockman holding the bag. 
As a remedy, Bennett says cut. And that's exactly what his boss says too. 
President Reagan has proposed a decrease of 2 5 percent in the federal student 
aid program, including a plan to deny Guaranteed Student Loans to families 
earning more than $32,500 a year. The proposal also would limit Pell Grants, 
Work/Study awards and other federal aid only to those families who make 
$25,000 or less. 
A study by the American Council on Education predicts 460,000 students 
(or 14 percent of those students receiving loans) would lose their GSLs. 
Private colleges, including Notre Da1p.e, say that 50 percent of their students 
who receive GSLs would be affected ifCongress accepts the cuts. 
Bennett's callous attitude has intensified the opposition to Reagan's deficit­
reducing plan. At his first press conference last month, Bennett went to great 
lengths to show his contempt for spoiled college students. 
The cuts, he said, "may require, for some students, divestiture of certain 
sorts -stereo divestiture, automobile divestiture, three-weeks-at-the-beach 
divestiture." 
Students, Bennett said, are just going to have to get used to the idea that not 
everyone can go to expensive, private colleges. "The administration wants to 
help the students who might not go to college at all," he said. Others will have 
to tighten their belts. "And tightening the belt," Bennett added, "might have 
the effect ofsharpening the mind." 
Reagan's proposal and Bennett's loose tongue, however, have drawn much 
criticism, and the plan to ax student aid doesn't hold much support in 
Congress, according to Joseph Russo, director offinancial aid at Notre Dame. 
Indiana University's student government called for Bennett's resignation, as 
has national columnist David Broder. And Sen. Robert Stafford (R-Vt.) said, "lfl 
knew he would make these kinds ofstatements, he would not be the secretary 
ofeducation." 
But the main brunt of criticism should be aimed at Reagan, whose myopic 
approach to budget cutting will only preserve abuses in the system. Instead of 
cutting off-and cutting out -qualified students, Reagan should have Bennett 
direct his energies away from his mouth to his brain so as to study more sen­
sible alternatives, such as: 
• 
Requiring loan checks issued by lenders to be payable to both the student and the college. Some students may be using GSL money for down payments on cars, but all that could end ifcolleges have a say in how the money is spent. 

• 
Requiring loan payments by lenders to be made in two installments: one for the first semester, another for the second. This would serve as another check against those students hoping to finance spring break off Uncle Sam. 

• 
Changing the federal law that allows college students to declare them­selves financially independent. Independent students are eligible for more aid, and many dependent students who are calling themselves independent are abusing the system. This abuse especially has gotten out ofhand at lower-cost colleges. 

• 
Revamping the law that allows any student whose family earns less than $30,000 to receive a GSL no-questions-asked. Approximately 40 percent of today's college students-including many who fall below the $30,000 cutoff­attend local, inexpensive colleges. Why should these students receive $2,500 a year when they haven't really proven a need? 

• 
Decreasing the special allowance the federal government pays lenders from 3.5 percent to 3 percent. While some smaller lenders might drop out, the GSL program still would be too profitable for larger banks to do so. And mil­lions offederal dollars would be saved. 


The answer, Mr. Bennett and Mr. Reagan, is not so much to cut as it is to restructure. Abuses within the GSL program occur in all income brackets. A $32,500 cutoff misses the point-and the problem. 
As Russo says, "Before we start using the sledge hammer to kill the fly, let's get some common-sense suggestions." 
-The Observer 

Editorial Board 
Edttor·in·Chief. Bob Vonderheide Managtng Editor . Mark Worscheh News Edttor . . Sarah Ham1lton News Edttor . . Dan McCullough Satnl Mary's Edt/or ..... Anne Monastyrsk1 Sports Edt/or. M1chael Sullivan Vtewpoint Editor Dave Grote Features Editor . . . Mary Healy Photo Edt/or. . Pete Laches 
Department Managers 
Business Manager. Dave Ta1clet Controfler . . Dave Stephen itch Advertising Manager. . Anne Culligan Circulation Manager. .... Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager. . Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. ... Chris Bowler Project Manager . ... Amy Stephan 
Founded November 3, 1966 
., 

---------~---------------------------------------------------­
Accent 
The scoop on the spring fashion forecast 

There is something so charming, so utterly romantic about spring. Every little thing seems new and fresh just waiting to be experi­enced. We are in the mood for a glorious change, a change ofatti­tude, a change oflifestyle and most enjoyable ofall, a change in dress. 
Naturally we want to look fantas­tic. However, people all too often become concerned with dressing to create a certain look. They want to project an image not so much of how they are but more or less of how they wish to be seen. The best look ofall is the look ofourselves ­unclutered, pure, and simple. In Bazaar's February Issue, Ralph Lauren said, "My statement is that clothes should be the backdrop to the person. They should never dominate. I don't think the first thing anyone says to you should be about what you're wearing." 
Now Ralph isn't saying that neon is out, not by a mile. (He isn't saying it's in either, mind you.) What he is saying is that neon shouldn't be such a contrast to your character that its glare (rather than you) is what grabs your viewer's attention. 
Clothes that accent your person­ality are key. This season's spring line will offer you everything your little heart desires in order to show offthe true you. 
There is on one hand, a distinct, romantic attitude towards dressing. A more feminine approach to man-
Maureen Farley 
features staff writer 
styling, ifyou will,. Look for a soften­ing offine-tailored details. Declares Vogue, "Broad shoulders, tough tailoring, and the oversized scale of coats and jackets with their strict collars and lapels have been replaced." 
Coming forward is a narrow, body-close line that expresses simplicity and purity ofshape. The interesting catch will be in a playful sense ofproportion oflong over short, n oflong over short; big over narrow. 
We'll see longer blazers over short skirts or perhaps exotic sweaters, big and bunchy, over cropped pants. All of this will be appearing in outrageously bright tints playing off dark or white clothes. 
The hit ofthe season is big shirts. Bazaar says,"The idea is to let those shirttails fly over shorts or a straight simple skirt perhaps." A variation of this will be big shirt jackets that knot at the hip or relaxed multi­levellayering for a cooler,sophisticated look. 
Skirts will also be softer to go with the feeling ofromance. The best are those that wrap around and tie to hold the body. 
Most ofall, colors are changing. The more relaxed looks will be cool shades ofwhite, silver, aqua and blush, and inventive mixes of barely-there tints. Another look says Vogue, is "hazy whitened shades 
with whimsical dots or dashes of 
color." 
And for those ofus who favor 
neon, masses ofchintz and floral 
print fashions are in. Look for print­
mixing and patterning not onJy in 
clothes but in shoes-multi-toned 
or striped. Sunglasses are great this 
spring in hot tropicaL colors. 
In make-up, think more ofbold face colors and shading in unusual ways. Perhaps a streak ofyellow across your eyes need onJy be added or a hint offuchsia across your browbone. Without a doubt scents are lighter and softer to take us into spring. 
For men a clear, natural look holds true as well. Men's fashions will hold a more unstructured feel. The focus is on the texture of ma­terial. Two of the most prevalent are mesh and loose knits. 
Colors are both bright and 
muted, but a particular emphao;is is 
placed upon the same hazy 
whitened look in the women's 
fashions. It's a distinctly masculine 
appeal but slightly more casual than 
we have seen in the past. 
Fashion should be pleasurable. Dressing is so closely tied with how we feel about ourselves that we ought to dress in order to express ourselves not a fashion image. I.cave the images to the store mannequins. 
Ralph Lauren, Esprit, and bscar de La Rente are successful onJy ao; long ao; we see ourselves in their fao;hion lines. Projecting ourselves through our style ofdress ought to be easy this spring. 



Tuesday, March 5, 1985-page 6-page 7 

This meditative mannequin (seen at L.S. Ayres) models a spring ensemble. 
Los Lobos' songs throb with life 
Slash Records has brought to the American consciousness a number ofelectric, non-mainstream bands, like the Violent Femmes. Los Lobos is the latest ofthese, and their first full-length album, How Will the WolfSurvive?, is quite impressive. 
The group hails from East Los Angeles and along with producer T-Bone Burnett they have managed to synthesize their Mexican roots with blues, rockabilly, and country into a delightfully uncommon sound. 
Lead singer David Hidalgo lofts 
his smooth tenor in contrast to 
guitarist Cesar Rosas' rougher vo­
cals on the sweet, often melancholy 
melodies. 

The material varies from the 
boogie-woogie blues of"Don't 
Worry Baby," the hardest rocking 
song on the album to "I Got 
Loaded," an energetic, bluesy rock­
abilly romp which is also a MTV 
video. 

The nostalgic "A Matter ofTime,'.' with a gentle strumming guitar, crooning sax, and bitter-sweet melody recalls the '50s. And "Serenata Nortena," a sort of Mexican polka sung in Spanish and accompanied by accordion. 
However, the gem of this superb collection is "Will the Wolf ·Survive?", a beautiful blues-rock number about survival in the world. The song opens with haunting images'of a wolfon a frozen win­ter's lake running for his life. Later, 
Hidalgo sings: 

Allacross the nation 
Comingfrom your hearts and 
minds 

Battered drums and oldguitars 
Singing songs ofpassion 
It's the truth that they all lookfor 
Something they must keep alive 
Will the wolfsurvive ? 

The Lobos seem to have created an anthem for themselves and all others who sing ofthe common man. 
Other numbers include "Our Last Night," a song that could have come straight out ofNashville. "The Breakdown," a ditty written with T-Bone Burnett and sounding like '50s rhythm and blues with an accordion, and "Lil' KingofEvery­thing," an instrumental guitar piece hinting ofthe group's Mexican folk roots. 
You'll find no synthesizers, electronic drums, or power-chord­ing here. In fact, the music is almost impossible to be categorized, which possibly provides some ofits ap­peal. The songs throb with life, and there's not a weak one in this col­lection. I can safely say this is one of the year's best albums. I highly 
recommend it. 

Punk fused with social awareness 

flowing feel through the singing as well as through the hair-trigger bass 
and airplane-like guitar. 

Another way in which Husker Du encompasses a '60s feel is through their increased use ofacoustic 
Tim Adams 
Record review 
guitar. "Celebrated Summer" and "Perfect Example" both contain bits 
One of the most promising punk darkness, can see some light at the of it, but for different ends. The 
bands ofthis decade is Husker Du (pronounced Hoosker Doo), a hardcore trio from Minneapolis. The Huskers specialize in a smart, unique style ofpunk that fuses the extreme power and volume of hardcore with an acute social awareness. 
So far they've produced four albums and one EP, and among these, 1983's Metal Circus EP and last year's double LP, Zen Arcade, stand out as some ofthe best new music produced in the '80s. 
Upon hearing Husker Du's fourth and latest album, New Day Rising, I can safely say that they haven't begun to decline just yet. However, they do seem to be backing off a bit from their preoccupation with society's problems. 
On New Day Rising, Husker Du seems to focus on more personal issues, such as friendship or lack thereof. Musically, they still crank with the best, but new touches are added on this album. 
The title track signals a more optimistic look at the world, in severe contrast to Zen Arcade's apocalyptic "Turn On the News." The only words in the song are "new day rising," but the message is clear; Husker Du, through all the end ofthe tunnel. 
Grant Hart's drum playing, with its characteristic stomping bass drum and loud cymbals, and Greg Norton's discreet but reliable bass help guitarist Bob Mould scream his way through the song. "New Day Rising" links Husker Du's past to their future with its old-style playing and new-style message. 
One ofthe newer aspects of Husker Du's songs is their recent assimilation of'60s style into their own music. "Terms of Psychic Warfare," the album's best song, features Grant Hart rambling like a modern-day Bob Dylan. Hart sings about a broken relationship and the "psychic warfare" that occurs after­ward: 
It's sad but the means they just Don'tjustify the ends To be forever haunted by the ghosts Ofallyourfriends Painful, yeah, that's the wayyou've chosen it to be C'mon can'tyou think ofanyone 
besides me? 

The extra "they" in the first line, 
plus the words "yeah" and "c'mon" 
are very Dylan-esque. 
Overall,"Terms" achieves a free-
former is an evocative ode to the carefree days ofsummer, when you get back to basics and hang around. 
Towards the end of the song, Bob Mould literally unleashes a guitar break that harks back to the Ramones' three-chord beginnings, but then the tempo slows and the acoustic guitar calms things down. This is a lot like how summer has to come to an end, and eventually, it too must slow down. 
"Plans I Make" is a terrific hardcore jam, with its frenetic playing and superfast lyrics. It ends with Mould grunting, "Plans...make, plans...make," which sounds a lot like Johnny Rotten yelling, "Prob...lem, prob...lem" at the end of the Sex Pistols' song, "Problems." Apparently, the H\lskers haven't forgotten their roots. 
Two ofNew Day Rising's songs contain swipes at today's society and the people in it. "I Don't Know What You're Talking About" hits right on the mark with these lines, directed at belligerent types: 
There's more to life than being right and wrong There's something in between called getting along 
And "Folk Lore" laments the change 


that has occurred in our country since the American Revolution. Bob Mould again scores a bullseye with this cynical observation: 
Now the kids play vids instead Their heroes are living on Wonder Bread 
It's funny, but it's true. 
Grant Hart gets a tip of my hat for his scream-to-a-louder scream vocal work too. Another cut, "Books About UFO's," is one of the weir­dest love songs I've ever heard. It's 
kind ofswingy, with some jumpy piano work in it to liven it up. 
Hart actually sings pretty wdl on this one. The song is about a guy who's in love with a girl who loves to read about and study outer space. He watches her watching the stars, and decides: 
I'm going to tum into a lens andfocus all my attention onfinding a newplanet and naming it right after her. 
Sure it's a sappy ending, but it's touching in an absurd sort ofway. 
That's kind of how Husker Du comes on; they may seem loud and raucous, but inside you know they really care about what's going on. And that's touching. 

Sports Briefs 
The ND Rugby Club will be meeting for practice today at 4:1 5 p.m. behind Stepan Center. Anyone who is interested may attend; no experience is necessary. For more information, call Steve at 272-0828. -The Obsen1er 
The ND Rowing Club will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall. Members must turn in raftle tickets and pay for sweats and shirts. ­
The Observer 

Classifieds 
I 
Tuesday, March 5, 1985 -page 8 

The ND Water Polo Club will be meeting for practice today from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Build­ing. Anyone who is interested may attend this practice session. The club also will practice tomorrow and Thursday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. For more information, call Mike at 283-1471.-The Observer 
Trivia night returns to "Speaking ofSports" when it airs tonight at 9 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. Valuable prizes will be awarded to those who call 239-6400 with the correct answers to host Chuck Freeby's questions. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 9 
Please 
!
support the AMERICAN 
~ CANCER 
"SOCIETY~ 
This space contribulJd as a public serv1ce. 

The Obsen•er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classifkd advertising from<) a.m. until .j p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obsen•er Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:.30 p.m. until -~p.m .. Mon­day though Friday. Deadlim: for next-day classifieds is .\ p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 n·nts per five ~·harac­ters cr da · 
Dear Dave, Thank you lor a wondertulLOST: A ROUND, BROWN. LEATHER LOST: GOLD CHAIN BREACELET BE­RIDERS NEEDED TO D.C.. S. MD, CALL Kathy BASKETBALL I LOST IT AT THE ACC TWEEN (OR IN) CAMPUS MINISTRY. 3283 FOR INFO Dorene lime Friday night. You're the best dale(&

NOTICES 
lriend!) a girl could ask lor. Could we do il again? Love, Karen P.S.I think the light is LAST WEEK. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL THE GREAT ZAHM HALL & FARLEY. Karen 

DAVE BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE AN IDIOT SENTIMENTAL VALUE, PLEASE zNeed ride to Pittsburgh this weekend. Kathy FOR LOSING IT. MY NUMBER IS 1118, supposed to stay on. 
RETURN IF FOUND FOR REWARD. Call Karen at 2844. CALL LAURIE AT 4039. 10 more days! 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 ED BORNEMANN GOOD LUCKLOST: Key chain with 3 keys, two dorm Need ride to Rochester.NY lor Spring 

TONIGHT! YOU'RE THE BEST' LOVE TYPING AVAILABLE 
keys and one small. silver trunk key. Break. Can leave 3/15. Call Mike 2510 Tequila 
MURPH 287-4082 SMURF key chain says: "I'd rather be 
Kahlua skiing." lllound please call4081. ASAP!!! NEED RIDE TO MADISON WI. FOR Usa 
TOMORROW DNLY
FOR RENT 

SPRING BREAK. WILL SHARE EX­LOST:Biack and gold Cross pen between Riders needed to Rochester. NY. Leaving TDK SA 90 Tapea: 5 lor $10. Only atPENSES. CALL ROBS AT 4107 EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 3/14 and returning 3/24. Call Frank at Rock du Lac, Notre Oame·s record store.
Laundry Bldg. and Morrissey last Friday 
.. . 
1422. lirst floor LaFortune. Limit 10. 
at 11:30 a.m. --3628 Kevin Nice semi-furnished house, 3/4 students. NEED MATH 104 TUTOR FOR TESTWORDPAOCESStNG 
255-3684/288·0955. NEXT TUESDAY. IF INTERESTED
277-6045 RayS.-When's the first game? THEY MOAN. THEY GROAN. THEYlost: A girl's GOLD bracelet. somewhere . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . ' ' . . . . . ' ' ' ' ' .' .. . . . . . . . . .. . .' ' . . . . . CALL ROBB AT 4107. on campus. Saturday. March 2. It was a Nice 2 student semi-furnished house, CRY FOR MORE---THE CHORUS OF 

CHICKS!!! ELECTRAgift. and IS of great sentimental value. If 

288-0955/277-3604-CHICAGO!! CHICAGO!!
TYPING Term papers. resumes. letters, Pat "P.A." McCauley is 20 today. calllound. PLEASE return to Aline--238 Need a ride to downtown ( or the west

manuscript•. Reaoonable rates: Pickup & him & tell him what you really think ol him Greek women do it under their
Lewis, X2179. Please have a conscience! SUBLET LARGE 2BR APT_ AC, DISH: 'burbs) on FRIDAY March 8th Pleasedelivery on campuses available Call Mrs. 
(3626) or stop by 354 Morrissey to give togas...See ELECTRA REWARD OFFERED!! WASHER, WALK-IN CLOSETS, WAS­have it in your big heart to give Usa a call­Schultz between 5-10 PM 277-5134. 
him his spankmgs. 
HER AND DRYER. PETS OK. • She is always lonely!! Her number is 
MOM & DAD--Can't wait lo see you .. ILOST: Necklace with single pearl in the RIVERSIDE DR. AND ANGELA. CALL 283·3033. She is so lonely so keep trying A lree application lorm that gives you Get ready to party your sophomore year. love you. Jane Anne women's locker room at the Rock on Sun. to call even ­

232-4355 real late at night that ol 
access to mCM'e than 500.000 chotce VOTE Steve LOWNEY. Carrienight. Would It help II I said it had sen­course is when she is home. 

SUMMER JOBS •s yours by sending a ROBERTS, Kevin GLEASON, and Anne GOODBYE FR POORMAN HELLOllmental value .. it does. Please call TRISH 

RENTING NOW FOR NEXT SCHOOL
stamped, aeH-addreaaed. return en­ANIMAL HOUSE GO BIG RED 
SHIPMAN lor the etas of '88. Good Luck. 
at232-0659. 
YEAR· FIVE & SIX BEDROOM HOMES Aide Needed to Dayton Area leave 3/13
velope to: Student Employment Services THE Freshman Quint. 

COMPLETELY FURNISHED wm-i (Wedn. before Spr. Break) share usual.
205 Wendell Avenue, Pinalield, Maaa. 
THIS IS WHAT YOU HAVE ALL BEENFOUND SUNDAY NIGHT OUTSIDE 

WASHER & DRYER CAll 234-9364 call Suzene 284-4242 THANKS 
01201 

Riders needed to Northwestern WAITING FOR: MANDATORY IN· TICKET NUMBER 1111. I SAW YOU STEPHAN CENTER A BENGAL BOUTS AFTER 5. 
University. Leaving Friday and returning FORMATIONAL MEETING FOR ALL DENVER!! DENVER!! RIDER NEEDED 
DROP IT BUT COULDN'T FIND YOU IN Sunday. Call Jennifer at 284-5276. THOSE GOING ON THE STUDENT AC· FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL MARC J 
TIVITIES BOARD SPONSORED TRIPS 4101. 
THE CROWD. CALL KIM 4205. 
TO FT. LAUDERDAlE AND DAYTONA BEACH. WHEN? T-HURSDAY. MARCH TO MY BEST FRIEND: YOU'RE THE 

LOST: My keys on Saturday night at the ~--RI_DE_S__~I ~~__F_O_R_SA_L_E~ MOST WONDERFUL PERSON I'VE
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 7. 1965 AT 9PM. WHERE? THE LA

Zodiac party at St. Mary's Clubhouse. II EVER MEL I'M SO LUCKY TO KNOW you lound them. please let me know. 1 AFFORDABLE HOUSE NEAR NOTRE YOU! HERE'S TO HAPPY YEARS MM. COKER, 233-7001. 
FORTUNE LITTLE THEATER 

need them back. Thaqks! Molly x4003 DAME. TIP-TOP CONDITION. CALL AHEAD...ALl MY LOVE, TON PETITE Suave, suede. sophisticated stud
CHOU LOST BLACK ARMY ROTC COAT AT 
AIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN NOW FOR BEST PRICE. PERFECT 
Szmanski seduces sophomore. Sweet

LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY FOR STUDENTS/FACULTV. 234-0465. 
succeaa, Stud! YOU OL' DOG I 
LOST/FOUND 

ST. MARY'S CLUB HOUSE SATURDAY NEED EXTRA $. SELL YOUR CLASS
MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE 
MARCH 3.1F FOUND CALL3127. 
USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. II you're looking tor a CHEAP ticket to BOOKS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED TO UNIV.
SO.BEND S AVE.M-F B/T12-4PM. WECALIFORNIA lor spring break, I've gotLost: Gold robe 
ch~n wtth aolid gold nug­LOST: A GOLD lioPii aRicii'Ler..Ar OF IOWA, IOWA CITY THIS WEEKEND. 
ALSO OFFER A 3 DAY SERVICE FORone ($218 round trip). Linda V. 277-6856 
get m_.lon Poaaibly lost In the ACC LEAVING THIS FRIDAY THE 8th AND
THE SENIOR COCKTAIL DANCE IN USED BOOKS. Thuraday night in the indoor soccer tourn· RETURNING THE 10th. CALL JEFF AT
THE MONOGRAM AOOM OF THE ACC, 
A member ol ND·SMC community to drive 
amenr near gym one 01 two upstairs. Sen· 1118.
THURS. FEB. 28. IF FOUND PLEASE PITTSBURGH SPRING BREAK BUS
new car to Seattle and drive car back after
timental value and reward ia oMered $$$$. 

CALL MAAY 277-3834. THANKS! SIGN UPS: THURSDAY, 7 P.M.
Spring break. Call232-0453 after Mar. 4, 
It lound pleaoe call Mike Viracola at 283-U2 can take your Pink Cadillac Follow the 
! TICKETS 
LAFORT. LIL THEATER. $45 ROUND 4100 anvtime Yellow Brick Roed on A Passage to IndiaA.M. and evenings . 
Found: a leather beaketball at the Rock.II TRIP, $30 ONE WAY. BUS LEAVES FRI. you fit the situation please call Bill at MARCH 154 P.M. 
hit Taco Bell and Find There's No Place 

• EXCElLENT INCOME FOR HOME AS­........................... 
t 
like Senior Bar. INTERESTED? Callx3133 to describe your rock and hopelully 
SEMBLY WORK. FOR INFO CALL 504-FlY to RALEIGH. N.C. lor Break! Call 
Katie Your Cruise Director P.S. Thanks

claim it Sueat2960. Colleen, Brian. Tara & Megan (I
lound: one pa1r ol women's gtaaaea out 646·0315 EXT.I!-1938. mean lor the postcard. 
• 
Megan & Tara) ... What a great weekend. 
lront ol Dillon In a snow bank. II you lost a 

FOUND: Cat near Senior Bar. Call Dan Chuck and Beach Roamers are the best. 
• 
WANTED: Student or GA tickets tor Mar­
pair call Man 1181 and see II they're Summer Sal9ll Positions. Average WOMAN AND M.B. 
1849. I'm looking forward to U of 1-J.A. 
yours. earnings $2900. Sell yellow page adver­quette on Wed. Please call Liz 2659. 
tising lor Notre Dame University Campus 
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN 8 "FRIENDS"

LOST: Pendant on a silver chain some­Women (NO girls, pleas): The Human
t 
Telephone Directory. Car necessary. No Need 2 or 3 Marquette GA's. Mike 3388 where between South Dining Hall, the Magnet.Pat Mccauley, is 20 today, come GET TOGETHER IN AN 0. MACHINE? 
• 
summer school students. Qualilied stu­Rock, and the ACC Wednesday evemng, to 354 Morrissey & give him a surprise.
dents should call University Directories, 
LOST: ONE PAIR OF BLACK LEATHER IT'S JUST NOOO BIG DEAL! 
February 13. Pendant has a rose painted (Remember, crowds are a tire hazard so
1-800-334-4436, lor more information
SKI GLOVES BUT I DONT KNOW 

on a black background. with a silver back­line up along the east wall. ..)
and to set up an interview by March 11.
WHERE. CALL CHRIS IF FOUND AT

t 
ing. It has great sentimental value.• PERSONALS
Ask lor Barbara Nieukirk. 

1150. Did you know that a SMC girl met PRINCE 
REWARD:Does a pan ol brownies and Pat Mccauley: That GOOD DODO 
amy undying gratitude sound good? II THING last weekend . . and he gave her 

CALC 105 TUTOR NEEDED: WILL PAY
REMEMBER WHEN.. .. you took that blemish!
t 
lound please call Karen x2145. PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234·
$$ · START IMMEDIATELY DUE TO
Physics book lrom 158A Stepan several Bye. Twitch & Hildegard 
0363. 24 hour hotline/free pregnancy test HE'S HOTIER THAN SPRINGSTEEN'S
TEST NEXT WEEK. CALL SHAWN AT
Mondays ago? Well there Ia a name In it. 

lost: light blue woot suit jacket with blue available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER TIGHT LEVI'S BLUE JEANS HIS~ Check the brown. 1naide. lower, right 4107 
leather patches on elbows. lett at the ACC PITCHFORK IS HOT THIS IS ONE cover. It says Kevin Shea. 283-3828. I KAREN NICHOLAS 
t 
alter the brunch for JPW. call Tom at 1655 DEVIL GRANT WON'T STOP THERE'S need It back. 
NEED RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA lor 
NO DENYIN' HE'S FIERCE AS A LYON 
Spring Break. Will leave Fri or Sat. call Ed 
LOST: PAIR OF BAUER CHALLENGER Turns 21 today. Will small miracles ever
AIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN FRESH FROM THE SHORE TONIGHT FOUND: A SILVER RING-LOOKS VER­HOCKEY SKATES LAST FRIDAY IN cease? Call and wish her a Happy B'day x3160. 
LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY HE'S BACK FOR MORE GOOD LUCK RRRRY VALUABLE FOUND ON 3rd THE CUSHING AUDITORIUM AFTER 
at SMC 5252 Does this mean Dexter isn't FLOOR PANGBORN LAST WEEKEND THE 11:15 EMIL CLASS THEY WERE Riders needed to Northwestern Univer­l• MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE TIM 'JERSEY DEVIL' LYONS. YOU 
needed anymore? Happy B'day. M and B ~ CALL2329 OR 1264 AND DESCRIBE IN A GREEN BAG WITH THE LETIERS sity. Leaving Friday and returning Sun­USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. KNOW I'M IN YOUR CORNER. I LOVE 
U, KERRY "MIKE'S PLACE". PLEASE CALL MIKE day. Call Jennifer at 284-5276. 
JIM· ANGELS GUARDED MY EVERY FOUND: Ladle's watch dunng breaklast OR KEVIN AT 3443. STEP WHEN YOU WERE GONE BUT
HEY CORBETT! Happy 21st' love, your
(Thursday. 2/28) at North Dimng Hall REDE NEEDED: to Kewanee, ll.(along 1-I'M GLAD YOU'RE BACK! I MISSED
SKI VAIL COLO SPRING BREAK Condo lavorite Quad p.s. DON'T YOU GO
Call 1101 (Gary. Jim. or Bubba) to iden­A calculator lound in Hayes-Healy. II you BO).Leave 3/15.Share usuat.Call Jack YOU. LOVE, EMH 
sleeps 41, Ful Kitch, FRPL, Jaccuzi, Pool. CHANGIN'! 
tity. lost one call BRUSH to claim it at1150. 2066 
LV M56 303-665·2700 Paul
M.E.O lrom P.E. Many thanks lor the Good luck in the Midwest. 
WARD'S WARRIOAS.. .WAAD'S WAR· great time Sat. night You had some really Break all the records 
RIORS.. .WARD'S WARRIORS WARD'S great moves,but I still want to see you WAARIORS...WARD'S WAR· drop! D lrom H. RIORS.. .WARD'S WARRIORS WARD'S 
(but please. not your hand) 

WARRIOAS ... WARD'S WAR­OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
I'll be thinking about you from Dayton. 

RIORS...WARD'S WARRIORS CAAAY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N.,
Get personal. 
Little ladyONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 

THEY'RE COMINGIIIII MAUREEN ERNY 
THEY'RE COMINGIIIII Thanks for a great SPW'
And help fight MS at the same time. 
CHESTER AND ANNE ND/SMC SOPHOMORES SKATE Margaret, Faye. lisa. Kate, Amy. Paula.
NIGHT!!!!!!!! Tuesday 8-10 at United Karyn. and Beth 
Skates ol America. Sign up with dorm THE SUN, THE SNOW, THE reps lor FREE bus ride. $2.00 admission, 
··------------1 
For the next week, The Observer "Can we just drop these two guys off at
NIGHTLIFE, THE MOUNTAINS. SKI $1.00 skate rental. DON'T MISS IT! 
I Coupon 
the seminary?" 

teams up with the "Millions against MS" THE BEST THIS SPRING BREAK­
ASPEN, COLORADO. $397 INCLUDES A'LA BRAZILEAN 
campaign to raise funds to combat this I Place TRANSPORTATION, 6 DAY LIFT CARNIVAL GET PSYCHED FOR SPRING BREAK!
a classified 
Send BEACH IN A BAG

disabling neurological disease. I PASS, 7 NIGHTS LODGING RIGHT ON LUNCH 
to your friends! 

order by Tuesday, THE SLOPES! CALL MtKEAT283-3573 Center for Social Concerns, March 7Just use this coupon before March 5th FOA INFORMATION OA TO SIGN-UP. 11:30-1:30 On sale for 50 cents at SAGA during din· 
March 5, and receive 
ner3/5-3n

to save 50 cents on your next classified 
Sponsered by SMC CIRCLE K CLUB SMC Students Never too Late For 

order ... and better yet, we'll match your Get involved1 MARDI GRAS 
OOOOPS! I wrote the wrong name! I
50¢qff 

Join the Brazilean Soup and Hot Bread 
savings by sending 50 cents to the fight meant DAN CONWAY' YOU lelt the
KOLLMAN GENERATION Center for Social Concerns, March 7 dance too early! CALL MEl Love Always. 
against MS. Applications lor 1985-86 11:30-1:30
your order. And The Thursday
Commissioner positions available 
You save money, and the MS Society 
now through Turs. March 7 
Observer will match 
.... oh. and. uh, Casey. take care ol those pick up at HCC. A'LA BRAZILEAN 

benefits as well. And Notre Dame and 
your savings and CARNIVAL toes, o.k? ~just keeping it interesting Saint Mary's come a step closer to LET'S GO METAOIII NY METRO CLUB LUNCH
send 50¢ to the fight 

SPRING BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS WED. Center for Social Concerns 
winning an MTV-sponsored concert. 
against MS. Offer ex­3/6 ] 7 PM 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE PA ThursdayHurry! Offer ends Tuesday. $80 WP $85 BUS DEPARTS FRI. 3/15 11:30-1:30 Take •teat you're aure to paaa
pires at 3 p.m. March 

AFTER CHOW BE THERE OR BE Stop by the American lung Associat•on 5, 1985. Limit: one SOUAAEIII .. exhibit and test the elfects ol amok~ng. Pat Mccauley (Mike Galvin's roommate) Compare smokers and non-smokers on coupon per order. BOXERS BOXERS BOXERS "KISS ME wants to receive his 20 spankings today skin temp.. carbon monoxide p.p.m. and 

I'M IRISH" $5 BOXER SHORTS $5 ON lrom any (and I mean any) lemale be­tremors. You'll be surprised.
Minimum order: 

SALE IN THE DINING HALLS MARCH 4 cause it's his BIRTHDAY. Any interested TuHday dinner$1.50. THAU 8 JUST IN TIME FOR ST. PAT'S chicks swing by Morrissey and give him North Dining H•ll DAY what he wants. 
L-------------~ 

The Observer Tuesday, March 5, 1985 -page 9 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 8 

SMC athletic commissioner applications will be available until Thursday at the Saint Mary's student activities of­fice in the Haggar College Center. All student/athletes are eligible. For more information, contact the student activities office. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame basketball banquet 
will be held on Monday, March II, at the Athletic and Convocation Center. A cocktail hour begins at 6:30 p.m. and the dinner begins at 7:30p.m. Tickets are SI9 each and are available at the Gate I 0 ticket window ofthe ACC. -The Observer 
NVA spring sports entry deadlines have 
been set. Spring events include men's interhall baseball, men's inter­hall softball, women's interhall softball, graduate men's softball, wo­men's interhall soccer, men's interhall soccer and men's interhall floor hockey. The deadline to register team rosters at the NV A office for all of these events is Wednesday, March I3. For more informa­tion, contact the NVA office at 239-6IOO.-The Observer 
NCAA tournament tickets for bleacher seats 
still remain for the first· and second-round games at the ACC on March I4 and I6. The 530 tickets, good for all games, are available at the. ACC ticket office. ·The Obseroer 
Bi'd BrathersjBifd Sisters 
CHICAGO TRIP Saturday, March 9th 
Transportation provided all expenses paid 
CALL JOHN at 277-0607 BY TOMORROW IF INTERESTED 
*********************************** 
* *
* * 
~ We Want You! i 
* *
: : 
: Applications ~ 
tember, he won three gold medals in 

~ for Bill Healy & Duan~ Lawrence's ~ ! Counseline i 
the Masters Nationals, defending 

~ Ill 
titles in the mixed doubles and

: 1985 -86 Cabinet * 
men's eight-man crew in his age divi· sion.

* ~ r 239-7793 t
~ are now available ;: 
-Kelly is survived by his wife of 35 ~ Not going on SpringBreak? "' years, the former Sandra Lee Worley;~ 2nd Floor LaFortune ~ -~ ~ six children by a previous marriage,
&. try tape 9 ~ 
which ended in divorce in 1980; his

* * = ­
* * 111c !!I!..! nuo -1""''-;;111 mother, Margaret; and one sister. 
a. ~ ftl-blp lulldlq 6.
* Executive Caardinatars ; 
~ ~ ;; . =:.::::: 
1
: Cabinet Members : Ill ' .......lq ....u.. 'llloup......... '­
g_ ! =~= :::=o:ucu.. C.Oltlci• !~ Wrestlers 
C. t Ulldel'lta4laa JH10UI7 ad llqv to O.al With It ­
: Transfer Drientatian Cammittee : 
D 10 Bowto1a7-ao" ,.;­
continuedfrom page 12

~ ~= ~~ to.Ottwro 11
~ Frash Drientatian Cammillee : 
-zo -1• _m,. 8.. "Carl lost a couple of tough
;; Zl llale a.o.auallt7 •
111 : :::1:!'~ :".:1:'.!:.~.!• eopo Vlth u ~ matches," McCann commented.
* * 
8. n -•• -1•· r.... 'n•" "Carl really hustled; he lost both
* * "' IacnaelDc s.u--.naeu
: MAKE ADIFFERENCE : f " JulldlJot. S.lf·llo••• .... Coftfld•nc• .S: times, but was in both matches." ~ ~ ~=·~h.:;::!:•• · 111 With McCann's first season now
! IN ! 
~STUDENT GOVERNMENT ~ 
: : 
* RPPLICRTIDNS DUE *
i : 
* March 8, 1!185 * 
* *
: : 
*********************************** 
The Notre Dame hockey banquet will be held tonight in the Monogram Room at the ACC. Cocktails will be served at 6 p.m. and dinner is at 7 p.m. Tickets are $10 for Blueline Club members and SII for the general public. Tickets are available at the hockey office in the ACC (239-5227).-The Observer 
The NVA wrestling tournament will begin 
tonight Wrestlers in the I23-I52 weight classes should arrive at 
5:45 p.m. Those in the remaining classes should arrive at 7 p.m. Anyone who did not weigh in on Sunday is not eligible. For informa­tion concerning byes, call the NV A office at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Bengal Bouts tickets now are available at the Gate IO ticket office at the ACC. Tickets are S3 for ringside and $2 for general admission to the semifinal round and $5 and $4, respectively, for the finals. Two-day passes also are available at $5 for adults and S3 for students.-The Observer 
An NVA roller-skating party will be held on 
Thursday from 8 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. at United Skates of America, 3909 North Main Street, Mishawaka. The cost is $1.95, which in­cludes skate rental. Bus transportation tickets may be purchased in advance at the NV A office for SO.75 or for $1 at the bus. Busses will leave the library circle at 7:40 and 8:25 and the main circle at 7:45 and 8:30. Return busses will leave USA at IO and I0:30. -The Obseroer 
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
The O'Neil Lecture Series 
Speakers: 
William E. Besl Chairman, National construction Employers Council Washington, D.C. 
James R. Baxter President, national Construction Employers Council Washington, D.C. 
TOPIC:. 
New Directions in Industrial Relations 
DATE: Wednesday, March 6,1985 TIME &. PLACE: 
12:15 p.m. Faculty Seminar Board Room, Hayes-Healy Building 
All members of the Unlversft)l of Notre Dame Faeult)l are invited. 
4:15p.m., lecture and panel discussion Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Room 122) Faculty, students, and the public are invited __
.. 

Jack Kelly." Kelly competed in four Olympics dip and sa\>e-cllp and save-clip and save-clip a;,d save-clip and save-clip 111 -I948, I952, I956 and I960. In Sep­
U.S. Olympic Committee leader dies while jogging 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA America's amateur athletic officials mourned Sunday forJohn B. Kelly Jr., who had just achieved his lifetime dream of becoming president of the U.S. Olympic Committee when he died while jogging on a Philadelphia street. 
Brother of the late Princess Grace of Monaco, Kelly collapsed Saturday morning. Friends and associates were shocked, and Mayor Wilson W. Goode said part ofthe city died with the 57-year-old Kelly, who made his mark in sports, politics and business. 
Police originally blamed the death on a heart attack, and Lt.James Cahill of the homicide department said police were listing "natural causes" in Kelly's death. Bob Waters, an in­vestigator at the Medical Examiner's Office, said a formal ruling would be delayed several days until the com­pletion oftoxicology tests. 
Tragically, Kelly's brother-in-law, Eugene Conlan, also 57, died seven hours later Saturday. Cahill said aut­horities had ruled out any connec­tion between the deaths. 
Kelly, a Democrat who served on the City Council from I968 to 1970, was a lifelong rower, swimmer and amateur sports enthusiast and win­her of the 1947 Sullivan Award as the nation's top amateur athlete. A bronze medalist in the single sculls in the I956 Olympics, he could be seen rowing on the Schuylkill River most mornings he was in Philadel­phia. 
The son of a three-time Olympic rowing champion, he was elected just last month as president of the USOC 8 a position he said in an inter­view he had "looked forward to for a long time." 
"I felt like my dad did. I got a lot out ofsports, and I'd like to contrib­ute something back," said Kelly, USOC vice president from I980 to 1984. 
Robert Paul Jr., a USOC spokes­man, said Robert H. Helmick of Des Moines, Iowa, the committee's first vice president, will serve as interim president until the executive board of the USOC is convened to select a successor. Paul said no date has been set for the board meeting. 
"It's heartbreaking for everybody," said former U.S. Trea­sury Secretary William B. Simon, who preceded Kelly as USOC presi­dent. He described Kelly as "someone who was willing to drop anything ... there wasn't anyone like 

,, r-b Sex lole--cbanpa Uld Stre•••• :I' 
complete, he must turn to the task of

.tO Mate Sex lot•-~•• Uld Str•aMa 44 ~amlat; to Accept Youraelf 
landing some top recruits in order to 

61 IIJhat lt Tberapy ud Nov to Uae It 70 IDfatuatton or t.ov.? 
achieve his goal of a top twenty 

13 Ho. to Cope with a ltroken lelatlonahip 14 Drlath and O,tna 
wrestling program at Notre Dame. 

.as lbllnltandlna Grld 90 Hlllpiq a Friend 
"I don't think we could have done 

160 Early Sipu, of an alcohol Probl• 
any better," McCarui said of his first

161 hapon.dble Decldone about Drinkina 402 S.lf A....-rti¥ene.. 
year at Notre Dame. "We did as well 

412 Exulpha of Contract luildi.nc 431 What ia O.preu}.on. 
as we could with the kids we have 

43.2 Bow to Deal vitb p.preadon 433 l)tpreadon •• a Lifestyle 
here right now. When I came in here 

478 lec•i.nc IMepen1•"t fr• Parenu 679 Dulina vitb Alcvtao.&.ic Parenu 
I didn't want to put any pressure on 

491 Suicidal Criala 
them with expectations. I just

492 ltecopi&lna Suicidal ·rotentiah in Othen Ul Kelp1n.a Sa.eon. in a Suiddal Crhb 
wanted to get them to get the maxi­Hours: M·Thurs 4·12 pm 
mum out of their ability. That's a Friday 4·8 pm ______... margin ofsuccess in my mind." 
The Observer Tuesday, March 5, 1985 -page 10 
Bookstore Basketball registration starts next Sunday in LaFortune 
Bookstore Basketball doesn't ac­tually begin until April 9, but sign­ups for the 14th edition of Notre Dame's annual springtime tourna­ment are this Sunday, March I 0. Registration will be held from 1-3:30 
p.m. in the New Orleans Room of LaFortune and the fee will again be 
·~-Last year <; I2 teams participated in the tournament, with 22 late­comers on a waiting list. As the tournament staff is unsure whether it will expand the tournament beyond ~ 12 teams this year, it is rec­ommended that teams register early or risk not getting into the tourna· ment. 
Eligibility for the tournament ex­tends to all graduate and undergraduate Notre Dame-Saint Mary's men, women, faculty, and staff. "Staff'' includes any person who works for ND-SMC; for in· stance, maintenance workers and dining hall staff. Students must be currently enrolled to be eligible. No 

alumni or future students are 
allowed. 
The Bookstore commissioners 

have made a few other simple rules 
for those who are trying to put to­
gether teams. 
No one can play for more than one team. Teams advancing beyond the first round are free to use players other than their original five, but new team members cannot have already played for another team. 
Only one tormer or present NCAA Division I basketball player, male or female, is allowed on each team. In addition, no more than three varsity football players are allowed on a team. But if a team has a varsity bas­ketball player on it, then there can only be two varsity football players. 
Should one football player be unable to play for his team, another football player may be substituted for him as long as he has not played for another team. Varsity basketball players, however, may not be sub­stituted for varsity basketball players. "Football players" are those persons who were listed on the pre­vious fall roster or on the current spring roster. 
The names of two team captains and their phone numbers must be given at the time ofregistration, and the person signing up the team should indicate whether that team has any football players on it so that they may be scheduled only for late games. No games will be res­cheduled. 
Team names containing vulgarity (i.e., any of George Carlin's seven dirty words) or flagrant attacks upon other students will not be accepted by the tournament staff at the time of registration. Teams refusing to give an acceptable game will be assigned a team number. 
The Bookstore XIV finals will be held on Sunday, April 28, culminat· ing the week-long celebration of AnTostal at Notre Dame. 
Faces two day suspension 
Dailey returns to Chicago Bulls 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Quintin Dailey's lawyer said yesterday that the Chicago Bulls' guard will rejoin the team after his two-day suspension and has no intention of bolting the team despite his highly publiczed squabbles with Coach Kevin Loug­hery. 
"I think the matter has been re­solved," attorney and agent Bob Woolf said in a telephone interview from his Boston office. Woolf declined comment on other aspects of Dailey's publicly expressed dis· agreements with Bulls management. 
Dalley, the team's third-leading scorer with a 16.6 average, was quoted by the Chicago Sun-Times Monday as saying of Loughery: "ifhe stays, I'm gone." 

"I'm tired ofthe personal vendetta part of it," Dailey told the newspa­per. "You can see it. I'm not going to be Kevin Loughery, Jr. I'm Quintin Dailey." 
The suspension, the latest inci­dent in a stormy three-year pro career for Dailey, was levied by Bulls' General Manager Rod Thorn "for blatantly disregarding the rules of the team." It was announced shortly before Sunday's 11 7-113 loss to the NewJersey Nets. 
Dailey also will miss Tuesday's home game against the Washington Bullets, but is scheduled to join the team against Boston Wednesday night. 
Dailey has missed practices and team planes throughout his two­and-a-half-season professional career. In the past week, he was late for a game against Cleveland and late 

John Stearns reports to Red's training camp 
Associated Pre811 
TAMPA, FLA. -Catcher John Stearns is going to give it one more try. 
The former New York Mets catcher said he'll report to the Cin· cinnatl Reds' training camp later this month to sign a minor-league con­tract and attempt a comeback from elbow surgery. 
Stearns is expected to work out with the Reds in Tampa and then play for their Class AAA Denver farm club as part of his elbow rehabilita­tion. He's currently a free agent not under contract with a club. 
"Stearns told us he wasn't ready for a (major-league) contract, and since he lives in Denver, we thought this would be an Ideal situation," Reds President Bob Howsam said. 

"That's one of the reasons why I leaned so heavily toward the Reds," said Stearns, currently working out at his Colorado home. "There were other invitations, but with the Reds I could rehabilitate at home. 
"There were other factors, too. They were willing to be patient with me, and the idea of playing for (player-manager) Pete Rose was ap­pealing to me." 
Stearns' elbow problems limited him to just 12 major-league games the last two seasons. The Reds drafted him as a free agent last No­vember, and he began playing win­ter baseball in Puerto Rico. 
However, Stearns hurt the elbow again during the first winter game and undeFWent surgery on Nov. 21. 
Organizational meeting for all those interested in entering the ND/SMC Multiple Sclerosis Fund Drive 
Rock-A-Like Contest 
Tuesday, March 5 7:00-8:00pm New Orleans Room, LaFortune 
•Win yourself a spot at the MTV concert, 
and a paid MTV internship Any questions call 239-7668. 
Bengal Pairings 
140 pounds Tom Berens vs. Marshall Rogers Pat McCormick vs. Jim Priola 
145 pounds Ed Kelly vs. Ed Borneman Tom Newell vs. Tom Lezynski 
150 pounds Mike Latz vs. Jim Silver Todd Lillie vs. Joe Collins 
155 pounds Ted Gradel vs. Jeff Anhut Ed Reilly vs. Pat Gee 
160 pounds Dan Watzke vs. Tom Cummings Ed Gavagan vs. Joe Simmons 
165 pounds Denny Coleman vs. Don Androbus Steve Freschi vs. Tom Hardart 
175 pound Grant Gailus vs. Tim Lyons Kevin Hamer vs. Dave Packo 
Heavyweight Jim Vignore vs. John Uhll Ken Munro vs. Dave Sassano 
Super heavyweight Dave Butler vs. Tom Rehder Pernell Taylor vs. bye 

for one practice. He completely missed a second two-hour practice session Saturday, saying his girlfriend had been in an auto acci­dent. 
"Who does he think he is -Kareem Abdul-Jabbar?" Thorn asked after an­nouncing the suspension. 
~4C:t~C3l~-----------------------------------------T_u_e_sd_a_r_._M~M-c_h_s_._1_9_8_s___
p_ag_e_l_l 

Zeto 
I DON'r KNOW WHAI you BOI{S ARE 
TALKING ABOUT! 
I DON'T SMELL 
ATHING! 
Bloom County.Be:rl<eBreatlnl 

fOfl.G!Vf M€, fOI? I HIIVI:: !fiNN€(?.. 
.. MICHAEl.. J:4CJ<5CW, I<AYOIAI<tES, 9E:V!eat:Wt:lil?., /JflTEMI/JtliR., aANA ROSS, 8/UYJOEl.., PAUL. 5/MCN, KENNY~ IAI!Ute 
NCIS(JI, TINA TlJRJ./ER., SMOKEY 
ROIJIN50N AN/J f 
/JKX'/NEIJJIII?tQICK.. 

'w'E'LL, [11YBE ,THERE1S 
SOME'THJNG A L!TILE VOLATILE IN THE 
AIR! 
The Far Side Garylanrn. 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 35 Paper quantity 65 Art style 21 Ward off 37 Disparate 66 Punta del -22 Gain knowledge mores 27 Persia today 
1 Old clothes 
41 Pedestal part DOWN 28 Jerk
5 Ariz. Indian 
42 Used to be 29 Marquis de ­
9 Stand fast 
43 Mountain 30 Increase
14 Blue-pencil 1 Near East 
system

15 Wallet items. fiddle 16 Granada 44 Tautened 2 Sun-dried brick 31 Billy or nanny gentleman 46 Pouch 3 Huge 32 Impolite4 Scatter about 
48 Ancient 33 Black 17 Wild pig 49 Crated 5 Container 34 Drinker's 18 Money in Milan 6 Like some
54 "I didn't hear shakes 19-bleu! nothing," e.g. salads 36 Texts: abbr. 20 Baseball 7 Llama's land 
58 Handbag

inventor 8 Sp. queen 
38 "Seven Year 

23 Intermediate to 9 Declare
59 Swelling Itch" co-star 24 Always to 60 Arabian Sea 39 Madeglum poets gulf 10 Round piece 40 Bangladesh25 Snoop 61 Goldbrick of glass city26 Spaniards and 11 Ancient native 45 -up (dries 
Italians 62 Knievel of7D out) 30 Consent 63 Optical glass 12 Small boat 46 Like some new 34 Trader: abbr. 64 Requirements 13 Before lawns 

~lf> Custom-designed ~Imprinted Sportswear 
T -shirts * Pullovers * Sweatshirts Polos * Sweaters * More 
SE corner of LaFortune Basement (Below the Deli) OPEN MWF 2:30-4:30 TI 3:30-5:30 
(Formerly the N.D. T-Shirt Shop) 239-5157 
47 Actress 54 Type of ranch Lansbury 55 Heraldic 50"-of Two border 
Cities" 56 Second-hand 51 Factions 57-Scotia 52 Occasion 58 Arnie's flag· 53 Thick pole 
Campus 
• 
2 p.m. ·Tennis, ND Women vs. Purdue, Courtney Courts. 

•3:30 
p.m. · Graduate Seminar, "Initiation & Elimination of Oscillation in Continuous Cultures ofSaccharamyces Cerevisiae," Dr. Satish Parulekar, Purdue, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•3:30 
· 5 p.m.· S~C Film, "The Doll Maker," Car­roll Hall (SMC). 

•4 
p.m.· Seminar, "Advantages and Disadvantages of Privatization of Public Works Facilities," Fred Spitz, OfFred Spitz and Associates, Oklahoma City, Room 303 Cushing Hall. 

•5 
· 7 p.m.· Senior Formal Bid Sales, LaFortune, $56. 

•7 
& 9 p.m.-Social Concerns Film, "The Busi­ness ofAmerica," Center for Social Concerns. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m. -Ford Theatre Film, "Twilight Zone," Engineering Auditorium. 

•7 
p.m.· General Meeting, World Hunger Coali­tion, Center for Social Concerns. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Faculty Senate Meeting, Room 202 CCE. 

•7:30 
p.m.· Bengal Bouts-Semifinals, ACC. 

•7:30 
p.m.· Debate, Star Wars Space Defense, The Fusion Energy Foundation vs. Nuclear Weapons Freeze, Sponsored by Notre Dame L-5 Society, little Theatre, LaFortune. 

•7:30 
p.m. · Meeting, Alternate Realities, 2nd Floor, LaFortune. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "What is Catholicism?" Rev. Richard McBrien, CSC Classroom, Free. 

•7:30 
& 9:40p.m.-Tuesday Night Film Series, "Rear Window," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. · Lecture, "The Silent Wars of the CIA," John Stockwell, Formerly With the National Secur­ity Council of the CIA, Sponsored by Student Ac­tivites Board, Library Auditorium. 

•8-10 
p.m.-Sophomore Skate Night, Free Bus Leaves library Circle at 7:15, United Skates of America, $2 Admission, $1 Skate Rental. 


TV Tonight 
8:00p.m.  :i6  TheA-Team  
22  Billy Graham  
28  Three's A Crowd  
34  Nova  
8:30p.m.  28  Who's the Boss?  
9:00p.m.  16  Riptide  
22  Special-Kids Don't Tell  
.28  MacGruder & Loud  
34  Ascent of Man  
!O:OOp.m.  16  Remington Steele  
34  Austin City Umits  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Body Electric  

IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
FORALLYOUR FLORAL NEEDS 
MON-SAT 12:30-5:30 or DIAL 283-4242 
Order early for corsages and wrapped flowers 
.... 

r 
Tuesday, March 5, 1985-page 12 

S~orts 
Competition narrows as 55th annual Bengal Bouts continue tonight 
ByJOE BRUNEITI The 160-pound division saw no 
Sports Writer action in Sunday's quarters, but all 
fighters will have to prove them­

By the end of the semifinals of the selves tonight when Dan Watzke 
5Sth Bengal Bouts tonight, there meets Tom Cummings and Joe Sim­
will be a few more bloody noses and mons squares off against Ed 
cut faces, but there also be 17 less Gavagan. 
boxers left in the competition. Don "Transpo" Antrobus will at­
Tonight is a do or die proposition; tempt to advance to the finals ofthe 
there is no tommorow when it 165-pound class by fighting Denny 
comes to the Bengals. You lose Coleman. Steve Freschi will have to 
you're out. upset number one seed Tom Hac­
Marshall Rodgers will attempt to dart if he wants to meet the winner advance to the finals when he takes ofthe Antrobus-Coleman duel in the on Dillon resident Tom Berens in finals. the first 140-pound bout. The other Dave Packo, an '83 Bengals 140-pound matchup will pit two champ, will continue his quest for boxers who received first-round another title when he meets Kevin byes: Pat McCormick andJim Priola. Hamer in a I75-pound semifinal. 
Ed "Munster" Kelly, the 145-The other bout has Grant Gailus 
pound favorite, will take on Ed Bor­meeting Tim Lyons. 
neman, another quarterfinal winner. 

Defending champ Tom Lezynski will Bengals veteran Ken Munro will 
try to advance to the finals when he meet Dave Sassano in one of the 
squares off against Tom Newell in scheduled bouts in the heavweight 
the other bout. class. Jim Vignone and John "the 
Boxing club president Mike Latz, a Captain" Uhll are the other runner-up last year, will fight his first heavyweights squaring off in the bout of the '85 Bengals when he second bout. takes on Jim Silver in the 150 divi­sion. Notre Dame wrestler Todd The Super Heavyweights will see Ullie, winner by a TKO in the quar­their first action ofthe Bouts as Dave ters, will meet Joe Collins in the Butler meets sophomore Tom Reh­other fight. der. The winner of the Butler-Reh­
Jeff"Wipeout" Anhut is scheduled der matchup will have the to meet Ted Gradel in the first bout unenvious task of fighting Pernell at 155. Pat Gee meets Ed Reilly in "Big Train" Taylor for the champion­the second bout at 155. ship in the finals. 
Women's swim team finishes fourth at Midwest 
By MARY SIEGER 819 points. Western Illinois Univer­individual and a team effort. We put Freshman diver Andrea Bonny with other teams that are stronger Sports Writer sity claimed second place with 478 it all together and supported each took fourth place in the three-meter than us." points, followed by Northern Mic­other." dive and sixth place in the one­Depth was the key to Notre 
Jimmy Buffet said it best when he higan University with 463 points. The Irish shattered five individual meter dive. There were 28 divers Dame's success this season, leading 
belted out, "the pleasure is worth "Illinois State ran away with it," varsity records this weekend and es­entered in those events. to the team's impressive 11-1 dual 
the pain." said Notre Dame Head Coach Den­tablished four new varsity relay "We all had good performances meet record, its second consecutive 
After months of hard work and nis Stark. "We were fighting to catch records. Freshman Amy Darlington and were able to cut our times," said North Star Conference Champion­
dedication, the Notre Dame wo­them and it was competitive be­set records of 1:54.65 in the 200-Cochiolo. "Everything went into ship and its first victory in the Notre 
men's swim team was rewarded last tween individuals all the way down yard freestyle and 54.13 in the 100-this meet and for the 1 5 who went, it Dame Relays. 
weekend in Chicago as the Irish the line." yard freestyle races. She also swam makes the whole season." "Depth really paid off," said Stark. 
captured fourth place in a field of 13 While Notre Dame did not claim on the record breaking 200, 400 and Last year, the Irish took sixth "When you've got more depth, it 
teams at the Fourth Annual Midwest many first place finishes this 800-yard freestyle relay teams. place in the championship meet and will help you." 
Invitational Championship Meet at weekend, the 15-member travelling Two new records were set in the their improvement in this year's Since training for this season 
the University of Illinois-Chicago. squad's strong individual perfor­200-yard backstroke. Freshman Bar­meet added credibility and reflects began in September, many of the 
Notre Dame tallied 398 poyus in mances enabled the Irish to score bara Byrne cracked the old record the growth of Notre Dame's pro­swimmers are looking forward to the gruelling three-day meeT. and during the final rounds of the meet, during the preliminary round of the gram. "We placed higher than ever resuming a normal schedule. "It will the fourth place finish allowed the while the relay teams contributed to meet, only to watch sophomore before and we made an impact on be nice to be normal students again, team to close its 1985 season on a Notre Dame's overall performance. teammate Karen Kramer break it the teams who were there," said especially for the seniors who can positive note. "Things started well Thursday and again during the final heat, posting a Cochiolo. start their senior year now," said 
Illinois State University retained we carried the momentum through time of 2:16.68. Byrne later went on "We got many outside compli­Cochiolo. "It was a long three days, the championship title for the the weekend," explained Irish co­to establish a new record in the I 00-ments," said Stark. "I think it gives us but it was definitely worth it since second consecutive year, earning captain Venette Cochiolo. "It was an yard backstroke race. confidence that we can compete we slaughtered our times." 
Notre Dame wrestlers finish ninth 

lion. Winners of tonight's battles will advance to the semi-finals. joe Brunetti previews tonight's bouts at left. 


in NCAA regionals this weekend 
ByJOE BRUNETTI Senior Guy Locksmith also pulled qualify someone would have been Sports Writer off a sixth-place finish in the two-day an upset. We just didn't have the ex­qualifying tournament. perience. There were more ranked 
Too bad things didn't go as well "Guy wrestled pretty well," said teams than any other region in the for the Notre Dame wrestling team McCann of his 126-pounder. "He country; that's pretty tough com­this past weekend at the NCAA had a pretty good year considering pany. It was easily the toughest Regionals as they did for senior Don he hadn't wrestled for a long time. tournament in the country." Heintzelman. Notre Dame could He didn't wrestle for three years. He John Kcug, who was considered to only manage a ninth-place finish in had a decent year." have the best chance of any Irish 
the Regionals, while Heintzelman Considering the company that the wrestler to make it to the Nationals finished with a much more respec­Irish went up against, their ninth­in Oklahoma City, was the victim of table sixth-place individual finish. place finish doesn't seem that bad. a bad draw. Not only did Krug have 
The Western Region contains more to compete in the toughest weight 
It was not so much that Heintzel­top twenty teams than any other in class, 167-pounds, but he also drew 
man finished sixth that made his the country. McCann's squad had to the second!seeded wrestler in the performance respectable as it was deal with the likes of 4th-ranked first round. Teammate Phil Baty, the his upset of the second-seeded 142-l.5U, 12-ranked Indiana State, 14th­senior captain, was also beset by a pound wrestler of the tournament ranked Northern Iowa, 18th-ranked bad draw and could not advance. 
The Ot.crvcr/FUC ~lo that garnered him respect. Notre Tennessee, and unranked Cal Poly­Sophomre Carl BUdinger once 
Dame coach Fran McCann was so San Luis Obispo, who surprised again showed that he is alot more in­
Notre Dame's]ames Patterson and Lloyd Constable qualifiedfor 
impressed by the senior's win that everyone with its third place finish. timidating than his I 18 pounds. He
the NCAA National Indoor Track Championship this weekend at 
the IC4A Indoor Championship Meet in Princeton. Patterson set a he called it "the upset of the tourna­"I wasn't real happy because I lost two close matches; one to the ment." And anyone who knows wanted to qualify someone (for the fourth seed 4-3.
newNotre Dame record in the longjump at25'-5" while Constable shattered the standing highjump record. See tommorow's Observer 
McCann knows the first-year mentor Nationals)," said McCann. for details on this weekend's meet. doesn't exaggerate. "Realistically, it was tough. To see WRESTLERS page 9 
b 



