
Inside: Irish Extra 

VOl. XX, NO. ·J9 WEEKEND EDITION, NOVEMBER 8·9, 1985 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
United Way lengthens fund raising 
•

campaign 
By LYNNE R. STRAND 
StaffReporter 
Hrought back by "popular demand," Lock Up A Friend will be held for two more nights as part of the extended 191'1'; United Way Campaign, said Student Body Presi­dent Bill Healy. 
In conjum:tion with the cam­paign, the Student Activites Board will hold a Lip Sync Contest Thursday, Nov. 14. In addition, a Senior-Alumni Club donation night will take place next Wednesday for the llnited Way. 
Student government extended the campaign not merely to raise more money. but because "these events were planned anyway," said Healy. The SAB had postponed the Lip Sync contest because there was not enough time to organize it or 
see EXTENSIQI'Ij, page 7 

Advice from a pro 
Notre Dame students, left to right, Tom Escb and Dan Lizarraga, follow the advice of 60s radical Abbie Hoffman b_y making apartheid-protesting 



Anonymous caller gives false infor·mation about hostages 
AMOClated PreM 
BEIRUT, Lebanon-An anonymous callc:r said Islamic Jihad extremists planned to kill their half-dozen American hostages Thursday, and a second caller claimed they were dead. But no bodies were found in the designated spot. 
The captives were to be "executed" by firing squad because indirect negotiations with the llnlted States had reached "a dead end," the first man said in a call to a Western news agency. 
In Washington, however, a White !louse official said "contacts" in the Lebanon hostage case had not broken down. And President Reagan said of the death threat, "Evidently there is no substantiation of that at all." 
Since the calls could not be aut­henticated, it was impossible to determine whether they were a macabre hoax or simply part ofa war of nerves being waged by the shadowy Shiite Moslem faction to pressure Washington into making a deal. 
Six Americans are missing in Lebanon. Islamic Jihad claimed Oct. 4 it killed one ofthem, diplomat Wil­liam Buckley, ';7. But no body has turned up. 
The other American captives are Peter Kilburn, 60, an American Uni­versity of Beirut librarian; Father Lawrence Jenco, 50; Terry Ander­son, 38, chief Middle East cor-
Thr Observer/Hanna Hacker 

banners In front ofthe Center for Social Concerns Thursday. The signs will be used atSaturday's foot­hal/game. 
Only 24 write in protest of parietals 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
AssistontNews Editor 
After learning only 24 letters would be delivered to the ad­ministration Friday protesting the punishments levied for overnight parietals violations, the Judicial Council voted unanimously Thursday night to write its own let­ter seekinga change in the penalties. 
"There was not a response from the student body," Judicial Council Coordinator Karen lngwc=rsen said, referring to the number of studc=nts writing Vice President for Studc=nt Affairs Fathc=r David Tyson In care= of Ombudsman. 
"Some people are pretty mad be­cause (the Hall Presidents' Council) spent a lot monc=y on advertise­ments" in The Observer, Ingwersen added. 
The council lc=tter, to be= sent to Tyson, University President Father Theodore Hesburgh and membc=rs 
see LETTERS, page S 
respondent for The Associated Press; David jacobsen, ·director of the American University Hospital, and Thomas Sutherland, the univer­sity's dean ofagriculture. 

Islamicjihad, or Islamic Holy War, believed made up of fundamentalist followers of Iran's Ayatollah Ruhol­lah Khomeini, had said it would release the Americans when Kuwait frees 17 Shiite comrades serving prison terms for the bombings ofthe 
U.S. and French embassies in Kuwait in December 191'13. Kuwait refuses. 
Several threats were made earlier to try the hostages as spies and "execute" them if the demand was not met. But no deadlines were set. 
In some other Lebanon abduction cases, calls reporting supposed "executions" have turned out to be false. 

A representative of the news agency, which declined to be iden· tified, said Thursday's first call came at 7:15 a.m. ( 12:15 a.m. EST) from a man who, speaking in classical Arabic, declared the American hostages would be shot by firing squad. 
"We wish to tell America that the sad end of the American hostages will not be the last. We shall shake the earth at America's feet and the feet ofits agents," said the caller. 
He promised to call again at 1 p.m. 
local time to say where the bodies had been dumped. That call was never made. But another man, speaking colloquial Lebanese Arabic, called the agency at 10 a.m. 
He said that "all the bodks of the= Americans, including Buckley's," had been dumped in the basement of the derelict, shell-pocked Coca­Cola factory in the Kola district of south Beirut. 
But policemen, reporters and Moslem militiamen found nothing after several hours of searching the rat-infested factory, surrounding buildings and nearby neighbor· hoods where bodies have bec=n dumped before. 




Night Oak sign will be removed from building after student protest 
By LAURA S. GRONEK 
News Staff 
The neon sign proclaiming"Night Oak Open" will disappear from the facade ofSouth Dining Hall because of student opinion that it detracts from both the beauty ofthe building and from all ofSouth Quad. 
The sign, the most recent attempt by University Food Services to promote the Night Oak cafe, has been met by much student opposi· tion, including a proposal by Notre Dame student Kurt Weidmann that all students adorn the campus Friday night with gaudy signs, lights, and "other visual nuisances." 
Weidmann, a fifth-year ar­chitecture student, voiced his protest in Wednesday's Viewpoint section of the Observer. 
"It doesn't take five years of ar­chitectural training to see that the sign is blatantly wrong," Weidmann said. 

completely out-of-place with the "gothic-romantic style" of South Quad. · 
Director of Food Services William Hickey already has made the deci­sion to remove the sign. Student reaction was brought to Hickey's at­tention through a Food Services Ad· 
"It doesn't take five years of architectural training to see that the sign is blatantly wrong." 
-Kurt Weidmann 

visory Meeting earlier this week, where student representatives of each dorm on campus relayed the feedback they had receivc=d. 
the sign and try an altc=rnatlve ap­proach to advertising the cafe. 
"We originally wantc=d a posted light," said Hickey, but bc=cause of numerous safety codes involved in installing It, such as a special wiring of the electrical system, the presc=nt sign was chosen. 
Hickey recalled the Night Oak's debut four years ago as "a social center for the students." 
The sign, stated Hickey, was merely "a means for letting students know that the cafe Is open and available for their use." 
Open seven nights a week, 9 to 1 Sunday through Thursday and 9 to 2 on Friday and Saturday, the Night Oak requires an additional staff and prc=sently Is operating with just a few managers. 
For this reason, Hickey calls the entc=rprisc= "more ofa headache= than anything else" in response to accusa­tions that the= sign was installed to attract more business for his own 

This sign above South Dining Hall may no longer exist, after According to Weidmann, this Agreeing that "the= sign did not fit personal gain. students protest that Its neonism detracts from the beauty of the neon element of "All-American in with the building md its ar· "The Night Oak Is here for the stu­campus. Story at right. blight" belongs on U.S. 31, and is chitecturc=," Hickc=y will take down dents, not for us," Hickey said. 
-----------~--~-----------­
The Observer Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 -page 2 



In Brief 
A man choked to death after the Navy-Notre 
Dame football game last Saturday, but it was an hour before his death was noticed. Stephen DeVriese, 25, was waiting in a van after the game with a friend to get the autographs of the football players. When DeVriese began choking, the friend believed that he was ex­periencing an attack similar to previous ones. The friend returned DeVriese, a quadriplegic, to Regency Place nursing home, where DeVriese lived. He believed medical help would be available there. DeVriese was discovered dead about 8 p.m. at the nursing home. ­
The Obseroer 
Of Interest 
"Peace Child," a production jointly sponsored by the Network for Peace and Justice and the Center for Social Concerns, will be presented Sunday at 4 p.m. at the Bendix Theater at the Cen­tury Center in South Bend. Ashuttle bus will leave the main circle at 
3:30 and return after the play. Tickets are free, but must be reserved in advance at the CSC. The production is part of the "Call to Peacemaking Week."-The Obseroer 
Interhall basketball courttime applications 
for Stepan Center are available now at the Student Activities Office, on the first floor of Lafortune Student Center. Final deadline for ap­plying is Friday, Nov. 8. -The Obseroer 
Rock-A-Like. Any person or group still interested in en­tering an act in the Rock-A-Like/Lip Sync Contest on Nov. 14 still may enter. Drop by the Student Activity Board offices by Monday for more information. -The Obseroer 
United Way Dance. All classes are invited to attend this event, part of the United Way fundraising drive. The dance will be held in South Dining Hall from 9:30-12:30 Friday night at a cost is J 1. The event is sponsored by the junior class. -The Obseroer 
The role ofmediationin the resolution ofconflicts will be addressed by Larry Hoover, president of the Community Mediation Center of Harrisonburg, Va. on Nov. 11 at noon in room 101 of the Law School. Hoover is a former advisor to the U.S. State Department. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Chorale Fall Concert will be 
presented in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday, Nov. 10 at 8 p.m. The 45-voice mixed choir will be under the direction ofCarl Starn.-The Obseroer 
The First Annual RaceJudicata wm be run 
this Sunday at 10 a.m. Sponsored by Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity, the four-mile race will benefit Hospice ofSaintJoseph County. Race forms are available at the Law School snack bar. Entryfee is J4 before the race or J5 the day ofthe race. The first 100 entrants will receive a free t-shirt. All students are welcome.-The Obseroer 

Weather 
Partly sunny and cool Friday 
with a high in the mid 40s. Increasing cloudi­ness and not as cold Friday night with a 60 per­cent chance of light rain toward morning. Low in the upper 30s to around 40. An 80 percent chance of rain Saturday. High in the mid 40s. ­
AP 


Ihe-Ob.se·~~er-­
------A.-=-Y~ ~-­
Design Editor................. Maureen Murphy Viewpoint Layout.......... Kevin McDonald Design Assistant............... Melissa Warnke Kevin Becker Typesetters ................................... Tom Small Accent Copy Editor ................Sam Moore Becky Gunderman Accent Layout ............................ Dan DutUe Typist ........................... Mary Kate D'Amore Accent Special Layout .......... Dan Sullivan News Editor .............................Jane Kravcik ND Day Editor ....................... Lynne Strand Copy Editor.................. Cindy Rauckhorst SM C Day Editor............... MaryJean Sully Sports CopyEdltor..................... PhU Wolf AdDesign .......................Jeanie Grammens Sports Special Layout............ Alex ~ltzer Michelle Martin jefiBlumb jesse Pesta Viewpoint Copy Editor......... MlrWo Hill TomBWore Pbotograpber ...............Chaitanya Panchal 
The O~rver (liSPS ~99 l·-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the l'niversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for I .'10 per year ( llO per semtster) by writing The_ Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
-4M~6. 
The O~rver is a member of The Asaoc:lated Press. All reproduction rights are 
resr..,·ed. 


Scholastic goes bi-weekly to provide in-depth analysis 
"Bi-weekly," we laughed, "they are barely a bi­monthly." 
And so It was last spring when Notre Dame's news magazine unveiled its plans for the 1985-86 school year. 
The skeptics still had their doubts. How could a magazine that appeared at most sporadically in 1984­1985 make a dramatic turnaround and appear regularly, twice as often as it had in the past few years? 
Scholastic was not always a monthly. In the early part ofthis century it was a weekly news magazine. It served as the primary source of campus news. When The Ob­server was created 19 years ago, its new staff was developed from the old paper and from Scholastic, where most people with journalistic inklings were employed. 
Over the years The Observer, which started as a weekly, became the preeminent newssource because ofits daily publication. Scholastic changed its focus and faded from the limelight. 
Anywhere that a daily 


John Men nell 
Production Manager 
Maria Press typeset Scholastic's content. According to General Manager Maher Mouasher there has been general improvement in all departments toward better organization. The staff size is approximately tripled. 
The number of magazines to be produced this year already has come close to the number last year, when students and faculty saw only six issues. This year, in­cluding the special South African issue, there have been four. Eleven more issues are to be expected before the end ofthe school year. 
While the magazine has 
made some definite 

newspaper is the main 
_progress and looks poised to source ofinformation, there leap forward, room for im­is also a need for a news provement still exists. One magazine. The New York thing lost in the cuts re­Times is great for daily quired to go from six issues reading, but Time magazine to 14 was some of the gloss. helps in overall understand­Gone is the higher quality ing of issues. Daily coverage paper and the full color cannot provide the full covers that we saw last year. amount of background in­The limited amount of time formation necessary to com­it has for each issue gives the prehend some issues. Scholastic staff less time to While a newspaper can come up with eye-catching run a long series over the page designs. course of several days, it is Scholastic has succeeded easy for a reader to miss a in some of its goals. It has 
day and difficult to save the ~lbCWE•HHOt..T entire series. A magazine can ef­fectively package an issue into an issue. 
Scholastic has tried to do just that in issues about Chicago, financial aid and apartheid. The atteqtpts have been nowhere near the failures that the skeptics oflast fall predicted. 
Not only have the issues been informative, interest­ing and intelligent, they have appeared every two weeks. 
The special edition (or is it addition) on South Africa provided much information on an issue that appears regularly in daily papers. It was loaded with facts and figures that made interpretation of apartheid easier to understand -adding to The Observer's daily coverage. 
Scholastic has made technological and organizational advances that have propelled it to where it is. Personnel additions are a third important advance. 
By installing a computer with a laser printer and typesetting software, Scholastic has been able to do its typesetting in its office, avoiding the time ofhaving Ave 
11-&  become  a  bi-weekly;  stu­ 
dents can expect its regular  
arrival. The first issues also  
have shown  that they  can  effectively  cover  timely  
issues.  

Next week the cover story focuses on money and Notre Dame sports. Another upcoming issue will deal with the rebirth ofAmerican rock. 
Scholastic also has revamped some old regular features. The calendar which has been appearing on the cen\er spread provides fairly complete information on the events of the upcoming fortnight and "On Other Campuses" which features other college's events. 
Jim Basile, Scholastic editor-in-chief, deserves much credit for bringing Notre Dame's oldest student publication to the level where it currently stands. It is a positive step that reflects well on the Notre Dame com­munity and proves what can be done with some ambi­tion. 
Unlliedway 


ALEXIAN BROTHERS 
A Religious Community of Men in the... 
HEALTH CARE MINIS'IqRY 

Committed to Christ... 
Through a life of fraternal love, prayer and service to the sick, poor, dying and unwanted. 
• 
ADMINISTRATION • NURSING 1 CLERICAL 1 TECHNICAL 

• 
PASTORAL CARE • X-RAY • LABORATORY 1 ENGINEERING & MAINTENANCE • MECHANICAL WORK • PUBLIC RELA­TIONS • PHARMACY • COMMUNITY HEALTH, ETC. 


••••••••• WRITE FOR INFORMATION ........•
• 
Vocation Director, Alexian Brothers •
•
600 Alexian Way, Elk Grove Village, ll 60007 •
•
•
•
•
Name---------------------------------------------•
• 
Address 029 :
•
City__________,tate______Zip______ •
•
• 
Age_____Education Tel. No :
•
11A HEALING PRESENCE" : ..................................................; 
HOSPITAL A~D'HEALTH CENTERS: Elk Grove Village, ILL.!Eiizabeth, N.j./St. Louis, Mo./San jose, Cai./Signal Mt., Tenn./Milwaukee, Wise. Brothers working in the Missions, in Mexico and Philippines. 

The Observer Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 -pag~ 3 


T E ROA TO SUCCESS Series will focus on South Africa 

OPEN 24 HOURS DAYS A WEEK==ll 


fOREVERYC 

AD 

WHO S EE TOl 

·t t;l 4.· 

Rapt attention 

Saint Mary's students, left to right, Katy Orle, Barb Antboine, Robin Rodi arid Mary Moran listen 
to a speaker as part ofAlcoholAwareness Week. 


IS PAVE WIT 
ByJOHN GRIFFIN 
NewsStaff

PINSTRIPE SUITS 
"Amandla: South Africa Freedom 
... We beg to differ. 
As a leader In the transportallon lndus!Jy, Roadway Express, Inc. offers a unique option In business management. 
We're not talking about a staid approach to manage­ment. We've buiH the challenge and excitement of day­to-day Involvement Into our management positions. We're open to your new Ideasand developments. We're aiming to match the growth of the transportation Industry -to remain a leader In a competitive market. 
Roadway Express is a financially stable leader In the transportation Industry with over 500 locations servicing more than 42,000 communities nationally. Our practical training will start you In a brief office assignment and move you rapidly through the ranks. You'llleam the boslcs ofour business and move upfrom there. You'll need 35WPM typing & nexlble hours. 
Of course, you can wear pinstripes whenever you like. And sooner or later you'll need them. But for now, we're more concerned about whafs In your head than whafs In your closet. 
ROADWAY~ I~ nl
1515 W. Beardsley Elkhart, IN 46514 -•• 8 
Roadway encouroges qualified l&male and minority applicants. An A 11/rmaflve Action/Equal Opportunity Emp/oYfJrM/F!H! 11. 

Take Your Holiday Break Early! 
a® 
A special price break, that is, on Macintosh™, the computer that is helping students everywhere wofk smarter, quicker and more creatively. The beaut of Macintosh ™ is that you don't have to know anything about computers to 

se one. In fact, you can be creating with Macintosh™ faster than you can arve a turkey or shovel your driveway. 
ontact your campus Macintosh™ location for more information about the oliday Bundles available until December 31. And don't wait for Santa o bring it....he has enough to carry already! 
© 1985 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Macintosh is a trademark rofMclntosh Laboratory and is h.r-;,fJ used with its express permission. 
For More Information... ConInet: General Micro LaF.,rlunc Student Center 239-7477 
~ ~ ll$ Now" is the theme for a weeklong series of lectures, films, discussions and liturgical services to be held beginning next Thursday at Saint Mary's. 
The week is sponsored by the Saint Mary's College Peacemakers. 

"The Peacemakers believe that the means to effective action against apartheid is through awareness of the crucial issues surrounding South Africa," said Robert Hohl, secretary of the group. 
All lectures and films will be held at 7:30p.m. in Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall, and are open to the community at no charge. 
The week's activity's are as fol­lows: 
•Thursday, 
Nov. 14:Juliejensen, as­soclate professor of communication and theatre at Saint Mary's, will give a dramatic appreciation of the plays of South African playwright Athol Fugard. 

•Sister 
Franzita Kane, professor emerita of English at Saint Mary's, 



will give a review of the book lead a discussion on the business and "Waiting for the Barbarians," by economic aspects of U.S. lnvolve­
~~~~:.lc~~v~0~~~is~~~;;:;z~~~ :ee;~~~~~~\:~~~i:~!~:s~::~! 
film, "South Africa Belongs to Us," a can play in countering Apartheid. documentary examining the impact The film "More Than an Invest­of Apartheid on South African ment," a documentary by the South women, Mutombo Mpanya will give African Consulate, will be shown. a lecture titled "Apartheid." Mpanya •Wednesday, Nov. 20: Following the is currently a Fellow at the Kellogg film "South Africa: The Nuclear Institute at Notre Dame. A native of File," a history of South Africa's Zaire, he spent the last 12 years con-quest for nuclear capability, Chicago ducting research and evaluating lawyer Cheryl Harris will speak on development projects in "Strategic and Geopolitical Con­community-level programs. cerns in South Africa." Harris Is a 
representative ofthe Coalition for II· 

•Monday, 
Nov. 18: Amnesty Interna-linois' Divestment from South tiona! will present a lecture by Africa. Sonny Venkatrathnam on the topic •Thursday, Nov. 21: The week will "Prisoners of Conscience." conclude with the Oxfam Fast for a Venkatrathnam, currently a World Harvest, with films and graduate student in New York City, prayer services to be held throug­is a South African who was im-hout the day. prisoned for eight years on Robben •An exhibit outlining South African Island for his political beliefs, issues and concerns will be dis­though he neither had committed played at the Cushwa-Leighton nor advocated acts ofviolence. Ubrary and other locations on Saint 

•Tuesday, 
Nov. 19: Peter Walshe, Mary's campus, and a letter-writing professor of government and inter-campaign in support ofa prisoner of national studies and director of conscience will be conducted by African studies at Notre Dame, w.ill Amnesty International. 


Minorities committee to address problems 
By MARK DRAGIEM 
News Staff 
A committee on minority problems has been created to give minorities on the Notre Dame campus a new outlet in addressing their unique problems, said Marsha Auls, committee organizer. 
Auls explained the special dif­ficulties which face the Notre Dame minority student. 
"Beyond all the· studying pressures, there is the fact that you stand out. You look different. If so­cial life seems rough on majority stu­dents, imagine how it is to be a minority," Auls said. 
"For some people, coming to Notre Dame is not such a pleasant experience," she added. 
The committee developed from a Board of Trustees decision to study how minorities cope with life at the University, Auls said. 
Auls, along with Student Govern· ment Chief of Staff Beth McCahill, is working on a report to be submitted to the board. 
The report encompasses the problems now being worked on by the committee. Auls and McCahill interviewed 300 students, two­thirds of whom were minorities. A random mailing survey soon will begin. From these two surveys, the data will be compiled in the report. 
Auls said two major problems faced by minorities at the University are recruitment and retention. 
She said that qualified, academically-minded minorities of· ten do not consider Notre Dame an option. The University should make a more concerted effort to open this option up, Auls added. 
The bigger problem, however, seems to be retention, she said. 
And for some, the difficulties of social Interaction, not academics, force minorities out before gradua­tion. 
As the student government's ex­ecutive branch minority concerns commissioner this year, she also ex­panded the student government to include a minority rights commis­sion. 
While Auls and McCahill collect the data and organize the report to the Board of Trustees, the commis­sion will try to alleviate the problems discovered while writing the report. 
The commission's first duty will be to act as a social outlet. It then will work to provide tutoring, Big Brother/Big Sister, and information. The goal is to provide a healthy atmosphere, Auls said. 
Presently the commission Is or­ganizing Minority Concerns Week, scheduled Dec. 3-7. The Dec. 3 start marks the 20th anniversary of Rosa Park's historic seat on the bus ride home from work. 
One representative each from the Hispanic American Organization and the American Indian population, and two members of the Black Cul­tural Arts Committee now compose part of the commission, Auls ex­plained. 

r---------~·------~--~·.....--~---~--~---­

to have fun while helping charity 
ByJOHN C. GORLA Olympians in the nation," said dividual events, anyone ...:an come StaffReporter Derengoski. "With the International over and use all available facilities," Special Olympics coming to the area said Derengoski. There will be open 
Did you ever pull an all-nighter in 1987, it seemed natural for Notre skating, aerobics, table games, and that was fun and interesting? Or one Dame to become involved in the other events, she added. that was for the benefit of someone program." Teams and individuals must other than yourself? Aiding in the Special Olympics ef­register for the competitive events 
If you answered no to the above fort is not new to the University. at the NVA office in the ACC or at the 
questions, Non-Varsity Athletics has Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Angela Athletic facility at SMC by something that will make you say will host events for the 1987 Inter­Nov. 13. yes: a campus all-nighter next Friday national Olympics and have sup­To enter, each team must make a 
·-----~-------------------.,/1
to benefit the Special Olympics. ported it in the past. minimum entry bid of $15. Teams I .., Notre Dame and St. Marys "Our goal is to have all facilities in Ideas for the event began last that bid any higher amount will be 
I .)?. Starving Student I
the ACC open to the students for spring when Derengoski and stu­given priority for entry. For in­one night," said Sally Derengoski, as­dent leaders met to discuss the pos­dividuals, the minimum bid is S2. 1 Discount Coupon 10% OFF I sistant director ofNVA. sibility of such an event. "From the 
I 14k Italian Gold and Sterling Silver I
She explained the all-nighter also beginning there has been a lot ofen­All proceeds from the entry bids 
I Chains, Charms, Bracelets & Rings I 
will raise money for the Saint thusiasm about the all-nighter," said will go to the Saint Joseph County 
1 Students "!ltl Staffmust present this Coupon or ID 1 Joseph's Copnty Special Olympics. Derengoski. Special Olympics Organization. "for to•;.off. Offer Good Through I "Originally the all-nighter was for Competitive events will range "As of now, we have no monetary I November 30, 1985. 
the students," said Derengoski, "but from inner-tube basketball to indoor goal," said Derengoski, "but hope­I Great American jewelers I it quickly developed into a means soccer. The,re are individual as well fully the teams that bid for entry can I University Park Mall -On The Concourse II Checks Welcome • Visa (directly in front of Browns Sporting Goods) I
for Notre Dame to assist the local as team events like raquetball, nerf be generous in their support of the 
M&stercard • Amencan Express I 
Special Olympics." football, volleyball, broomball, and Special Olympics." I Christmas layaways ( 2l 9) 277_3353 The Special Olympics, a unique basketball. sports training and competition The water sports will provide an The games begin on Friday, Nov. 
·-------------------------~ 
program for mentally retarded opportunity for the students to use 16 at 6 p.m. and will run until 11 a.m. children, is a volunteer organization the new Rolfs Aquatic Center, the following morning. Volunteers which depends greatly on the scheduled to be formally opened on as well as the NVA staff will help run Student Activities Boa~d economic and moral support of the Nov. 13. Water sporting events in­the event, but many more volun­local community. clude open swimming, diving and a teers are needed, Derengoski said. 
~ 

"The South Bend area has the giant Marco Polo game. Anyone wishing to help should con­second largest amount of Special "In addition to the team and in-tact the NVA office at 239-5100. 
What better way to wish your 






GH'3ST
son or daughter good luck on
Parents! 
an exam or happy birthday than an inexpensive Observer 


BUSTERS
ad?

Parents!! 
Contact Jim Hagan, adver­tising manager, at (219)-November 8tQ
Parents!!! 239-5313 for information 1=oo,9:oo,fl:ooand price•. Photos are accepted Hall of En~inee..-inO $t.50 
"I ain't !fraid ofrPo ghost"
***************************~~~ 
Pick a Flick Mavie Rental Center 

GRAND DPENINCi 
4& cspecial tape rental far 
I*WI:$ m~tt r l!lEillf§

members 
****************************** 
11£D(B(B[$§U §[$11[$lBUUlDW UW UlDOOW ****************************** 
Came inand see aur Children•• Raam 

514DD U.S. !11 N
* Gha•tbu•t•r• 

Clacktaw•r Squar•
*Karat• Kid 

Shappinfjl C•nt•r Sauth B•nd
* Dv•r 25DD hundr•dmavi•• 
The Observer Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 -page 5 
Bizarre story of mother and son unfolds in Indiana murder trial 


MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. -A woman charged with plotting the crossbow killing of her stepmother-in-law did no such thing, a defense attorney said Thursday. 
Atty. Scott King told a LaPorte Su­perior Court jury that Hilma Marie Witte panicked when she dis­covered her son,John Witte, 17, had shot the elderly woman with a cros­sbow arrow, or bolt. 
Mrs. Witte was not trying to protect herselfwhen she helped her son dismember and dispose of the body after the Jan. 1 0, 1984 slaying, King said. 
"It was to protect her son," he said during opening statements. 
Witte, angered at his grandmot­her's strictness and indulged by his mother's permissiveness toward his use ofalcohol and drugs, plotted and carried out the killing by himself, he said. 
Chief Deputy Prosecutor William Herrbach, however, alleges Mrs. Witte planned the slaying and charged her with murder and con­spiracy to commit murder. The prosecution had filed for the death penalty, then withdrew the request. 
Herrbach said Mrs. Witte had withdrawn $6,000 from Elaine Witte's bank account the day before the slaying. Fearing the withdrawal would be discovered, she told John Witte to kill his grandmother. 
Witte fired a single crossbow bolt into the woman's chest as she slept in the family's home. He pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter and agreed to testify against his mot­her. Witte has been sentenced to 20 years in prison. 
"You are about to be Introduced to one of the most bizarre, disgust­Ing and grotesque murders that's ever happened In our community," Herrbach told the 1 0 men and two women on the jury. 
He then outlined Mrs. Witte's al­leged attempt to concoct contradic­tory vacation stories as an explanation to bewildered friends and relatives of Elaine Witte's prolonged absence. Her dlsap­
. pearance went unreported for five months. 
Finally, Mrs. Witte's mother, Mar­garet O'Donnell, told Investigators of the woman's violent death and meticulous efforts to destroy the body, Herrbach said. 
To reduce the dismembered body, parts were packed In plastic bags and stored in a freezer. 

Give us 1 hour. 
We'll give you the way to higher grades and more free time. 
Would you like to: ./Raise your grade point average without long 
hours over texts. 

../"End all-night cramming sessior:~. 
r Breeze through all your stu~lying in as little as 
113 the time. / Have more free time to enjo:· yourself. ./'Read 3 to 10 times faster, with better 
concentration. understdnding, and recall. 
Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics works-over 2 million people, including students, executives, senators, and even U.S. presidents have proven it. A free 1 hour demonstration will show you how to save hundreds of hours of drudgery this school year, and to increase your reading effec­tiveness immediately. 
It only takes an hour, and it's free. Attend today. 
EVELYN WOOD 
READING DYNAMICS 
will open your eyes. 
Schedule of Free Introductory Lessons 
"' D""fit~­tfOaa1J  ~~~~~easeSllee, l'"olll' II  
~~~  ~~~~  
~  LOCATION:  Pot1CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION  
[directly across from Morris lnnJ  
on Notre Dame Avenue (on campusJ Room 230  

FRI. NOV. 8 1 0:00 AM, 12:00 PM & 2:00 PM 
Choose the day and time most convenient for you. Reservations are not necessary. For further information, please call 1-(800) 447-READ 


Letters 
continuedfrom page 1 
of the Judicial Review Board will state "there Is a problem with the penalty as It stands and that some sort of change needs to be made" and the policy clarified, Ingwersen said. 
As the policy stands now, over­night violations result In automatic suspension or dismissal from the University. 
Prior to approving the letter, several council members said they, like many other students. were confused whether the parietals policy was linked to the sexuality code. 
The sexuality code, which forbids students from participating In premarital sex, Is separate from the parletals guidelines, Ingwersen said. 
"They're two separate parts of du Lac," she said. "They're two separate issues." 
"Although parletals are not as­sociated with sex," that's the way they're enforced, council member Ed Lahood said. 
"You don't dismiss someone who just stayed two to three hours late," Lahood added, referring to the two students suspended for violating the overnight parietals policy, but not the sexuality code. 
Council member Steve Simone questioned whether students would leave dorm rooms at night If the penalty for parietals violations was reduced and the possibility of being suspended or dismissed wa.'i no longer a threat. 
"No one's saying abolish the stric­test penalty," answered council member Jim Radke. 
"Each case should be looked at In­dividually. There are certain ex­tenuating circumstances" which should be taken into account, Radke added. 
Before the council approved the letter, the idea ofa circulating a peti­tion was suggested. 
"A lot of people are too lazy to write a letter, but they will sign a petition," council member John McNamara said. 
Although the council took no final action on the suggestion, Ingwersen did say a petition "is a possibility." 
In other business, Student Senator Steve Taeyaerts told the council he's heading a committee studying the possibility of eliminating the elec­tion rule prohibiting organizations from endorsing candidates for stu­dent government office. 
The elimination ofthe rule, which applies to all organizations except the media, met with favorable response. 
"It would be a good Idea to open (the election) up," said council member Pat Flood. "The Observer Is like a rubber stamp ... every time It endorses someone they win." 


The Observer Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 -page 6 

Police kill two blacks in South African riots 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa· A riot patrol shot and killed two blacks in a mob stoning police vehicles near Cape Town in the first con­firmed riot deaths in a week, police said Wednesday. 
A witness said the two men were killed when violence broke out at what had been a peaceful funeral for a riot victim after police seized the flag of the banned African National Congress guerrilla movement. 
The witness, who declined to be identified, spoke to reporters and to members of the opposition Progressive Federal Party's Unrest Monitoring Committee who visited the Crossroads squatter area where the funeral was conducted. 
A spokesman at police headquarters in Pretoria, however, said his records showed the two blacks were killed in Guguletu, next to Crossroads. He said he had no report ofa funeral in the area. 
They were the first riot deaths since the government imposed a 
An independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­plications tor the following position: 
• Copy Editor 

Requires editing news copy one night per week. This is a paid position. Submit ap­plications to Dan McCullough or Frank Lipo by 5 p.m. Sunday. 
For more information, call The Observer at 239-5313 
crackdown on the news media last 
Saturday, and it was believed that no 
journalists were present at Cros­
sroads to verify the police or wit­
ness' accounts. 
The absence of reporters also meant there was no test of the new rules ordering television crews and photographers to leave the scene when violence breaks out in state-of­emergency areas. 
The clash was one ofa dozen cases ofviolence around the country from late Tuesday to late Wednesday, ac­cording to police headquarters. 
Also near Cape Town, police said they were investigating the murder of a mixed-race soldier who was found shot to death early Wednes­day on a road near mixed-race townships torn by rioting in recent months. 
Police and soldiers have been fre­quent targets ofattack by rioters, but a spokesman said it was unclear whether the 22-year-old soldier, whose duffel bag and toiletries lay neatly by his body, was the victim of such an attack. 
With ~ CLI~RKTELE 

cavlMUNICATIONS, INC. 
LESS COST -Clark Telacommunication rates are 7'12% below A f& T rates all the time. 7'1> o/o below daytime, evening and nighttime rates. 
LESS HASSLE -Bacause Clark itemizes your billing for each individual, there is no more figuring out your roommate's calls. 
LESS NOISE -Clark long distance is clear, quality communications. No more strange interference, funny noises, dead air, or low volume with Clark. 
LESS RUNAROUND· Because Clark was chosen by the Administra,tion · of the University of Notre Dame to handle long distance service for students, we have an on-campus service representative to answer questions and respond to problems right away. 
your voice counts ... Cal/ today to start saving on all your long distance services, or see our ON-CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE In room G911n the Memorial Library. 283-4150 

Monsignor Francis Sampson and Michael the birthday of the Navy ,md Murine Corps. The Reyda, a 4th class midshipmtJn. ,·ut the birthday ceremony occurred Thur. rJay a{ternmm i11 the cake which was part of the ceremony celebrating Library Auditorium. 
Samnaer Job Applications AvaUable 
11ae Notre D...e AJu111nl A..oelatfon, In cooperation ll1ltla tlae CareerandPface~nent Semcea 0/Jfce, ..., again aponaor tlae Su1n111er tloiJ Place111ent Progra111 
fn1986. 

lP YOUAREINTEJI£STED INAPPLYING FOR 
SIJMllfEJItiOBS INAN Alu•BI Club dfp, oiJ,.,.•• 14,pplfcatfonfro• dae AI•••'OJIIce. 20J A..,._BW•· 

APPLICADONS MUST BE COMPLETED AND RE11JRNED BY NOVEMBER SO. 




ENJOY 
''The Best Coffee In Town'' 
Taste . • • 
The Big Difference 
Really Good 
Coffee Makes 
D ~ 


• 
We proudly carry the largest selection of the World's Finest Superior Gourmet Coffee Beans 

• 
Whole or custom ground to your order 

• 
Always Fresh 

• 
100°/o Satisfaction Guaranteed-* Mail Order 

• 
Safe to drink, Water processed-Decaffeinated 

• 
Also delicious tea, coffee makers and filters 


• Gourmet Coffee and Tobacco Shop 

6502 Grape Road, University Center Mishawaka, Indiana (219) 277-6887 
Behind Jeremiah Sweeney's 
7!% LESS  7~% LESS  7~% LESS  
ftfAHAf&l'"1  rHAH.u&r·.  JHAJ\IAT&T'1  
DAYTIME RATES  EVENING RATES  NIGHTTIME RArrs  


e ·cLqAKTELE 

~ COMMUNICATIONS, INC 
211 West Washington Suite 1700 South Bend, IN 46601 

The Observer Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 -page 7 
Bowen chosen as cabinet secretary 
Associated PreBS 
WASHINGTON -Otis Bowen, a former Indiana governor described as a conservative country doctor, was selected by President Reagan on Thursday to be the next secretary of health and human services, replac­ing Margaret Heckler, who will become U.S. ambassador to Ireland. 
Reagan said he picked Bowen "because of all the qualifications he has In excess for this particular posi­tion," including experleoce as a family doctor and medical professor and eight years as governor. 
Reagan and Bowen, citing the nominee's pending confirmation hearings In the Senate, declined to answer most questions from reporters when they appeared in the president's Oval Office for the an­nouncement. 
But Bowen denied any Illegal ac­tion in deciding to treat his terminally Ill wife some years ago with three: drugs not approved by the Food and Drug Administration. 
Bowen had revealed his action In a 19H l speech to an American Medi­cal Association conference, and criticized what he considered daw­dling on new drug approvals by FDA, which will be under his direction at HHS. 
The drugs he used included dimethyl sulfoxide, or DMSO, an in­dustrial solvent believed by many to be a pain reliever when used as an ointment; tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC, the principal active ingredient In marijuana; and an unidentified drug approved in France but not in the United States. 
The first two were intended to treat his wife's "incredible, ex· cruciating, unbearable pain," he said at the time:. The third was an attempt to treat her fatal bone cancer. She diedjan. 1, 1981. 
"Why can't a dying person, with severe pain, have easy prescription access to it?" Bowen asked In his 1981 speech. "The only excuse I could flnd was that after prolonged use and heavy dosage, It (DMSO) caused an occasional cataract In dogs only." 
He later said DMSO use was part of a clinical trial of the drug. But he said, "It seems to me as If we have been looking at some of these drugs forever. I'm not calling for unleash­ing of harmful drugs, but it seems to me you have to weigh the benefits and risks. With any new drug, there is always going to be someone who reacts badly to it." 
"I don't want others to have to go through what Beth did," he said. 


r----------------------------­
-~ 
~Pizza 
52929 u.s.31 rtonh 
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizza for Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizza for Small Pizza Price (Delivery Orders Only) After 5 pm on Fri.-Sat. Only (Limited Delivery Area) 
277-5880 Offer expires Nov. 11 
~----------------------------~ 



Here For The Game ... The Weekend ... The Day? RunningShort of Cash? 
Ifyou have a CIRRUS-linked bank card, you don't have a problem! 1stSource Bank says, ..Welcome," and invitesyou to any of our 17 conveniently located Resource Centers, where you can get the cash you need! Three are located within a mile and a half of the Notre Dame Campus: 
rra 
CIRRUS 

Reagan did not comment on the iss·ue. Later, White House spokes­man Larry Speakes said Reagan was aware of everything in Bowen's background before selecting him. 
"I don't anticipate It (DMSO) would be any trouble," Speakes said. "It's an old issue that's been dis­cussed many times and that's about it. The man wlll be testifying before the Senate, and the Senate can go Into this." 
Initial reaction to the nomination 
was favorable, including praise from 
Heckler. 

"First as a doctor-then as a public 
servant -Otis Bowen has been ser­
ving people all of his adult life," she 
said. "The president has made a flne 
choice." 

On Capitol Hill, Sen. Bob Pack­
wood, • R-Ore., chairman of the .Senate Finance Committee, predicted "clear sailing" for Bowen before his committee and the full 
Senate. 

"I think there will be tough ques­tions on Medicare and Medicaid," Packwood said, but, he added, "I think they will be fair questions. I think Governor Bowen will handle himselfadmirably and I think he will get clear sailing and be easily con­firmed." 
"l\JJIT WlE IE AlDVfERIA 
Larry Hoover, 
attorney on: 
an Alternative 
Adversarial Litigation" 
lMJ@trn~llW !HI@Wg 
111t !H)(C)@Ill) !A@(C)Ilft\1 
lll"' s(C1m(C) (C) ll 
Sponsored by: 
Social Justice Forum & Pre-law Society 
u~ u 
• 

1. 
Roseland-52990U.S. 31 N. at Cleveland 

2. 
St. Mary's College-Haggar College Center 

3. 
Maple Lane-2230 So. Bend Ave. at Ironwood 


Resource and CIRRUS ... long on convenience whenyou're short on cash! ~.source
-.Bank 
-F.D.IC 

1 
1 

1 
1 
'l'br Ol>oerver/Kathl Danahy 

Satnt Mary's students Maureen Connaughton and Rachel Chua roam the campus Thursday, enjoying the partly sunny after­noon. 
Senate issues subpoena for Soviet sailor 
Assoclated Pre88
"Mediation as 
WASHINGTON -A Senate com­mittee Issued a subpoena Thursday for a Soviet sailor who apparently tried to defect, but later changed his mind, calling him to Washington to determine whether his change: of heart was made freely.
U U 
Meanwhile, the full Senate called on the Reagan administration to use "all legal and legitimate means" to resolve the case of 22·year-old Miroslav Medvld . 
The deputy counsel to the Senate Agriculture Committee, Terrance Wear, was carrying the subpoena, translated into both Russian and Uk­rainian, on a flight to New Orleans and planned to attempt to serve It late in the day. 
Nine members of the 17-member committee had been contacted and given their authorization for the sub­poena to be served, staffers said. 
The Senate resolution declared that there were "serious questions" about the Initial handling of the case by the Immigration and Naturaliza­tion Service, and suggested further government action was needed to determine whether the sailor was returning to the Soviet Union of his own free will. 



Extension 
continued/rom page 1 
flnd  a  place  to  hold  the  popular  
event.  
The  night  at  the Senior-Alumni  

Club was cancelled last week be­cause of damages sustained by patrons after the University of Sout· bern California football game. 
"Those were circumstances beyond our control," stated Healy. 
"The lock-up has worked out beautifully," he said. "But because (Notre Dame) Security can only handle so many arrests in one night, 25 arrests per night," the lock-up will be extended to next Wednesday and Thursday nights from 7 to I0 p.m. 
"Security will be a lot tougher this round," Healy said. The prisoner will be behind bars for "the full three: hours unless he actively calls to raise his flve dollar bail." 
He added, "Security won't let th.:; prisoner just sit In there for an hour doing homework." 




r 
The Observer 
When I graduate... 
Students, left to right, Tom Korecki, Madhu .Walik and Mike Gray, discuss graduate school pos­sibilities with Notre Dame alumni Brian McCorry. 


Surrogate mother delivers baby 
MALDEN, Mass. -A healthy baby girl was born Thursday to a woman who had agreed to be impregnated by her brother-in-law's sperm so her sterile sister could start a family. 
Kristen Jennifer was born at 3:35 

a.m. at Malden Hospital, into the waiting arms of her mother-to-be, Carole Jalbert, according to a state­ment released at a news conference. 
Jalbert, who was present throug­hout the labor of her sister, Sherry King, exclaimed, "Oh, my baby, my baby," when the 7-pound, 6-ounce baby was born, the statement said. 
King said the delivery "hurt, but it 

was worth it." 
Owen King, husband of the biological mother, said the child was "the culmination of a two-year project with a pretty heavy emo­tional investment." 
Jaruzelski leaves post in Poland 
Assoclated Preas 
WARSAW, Poland Gen. Woj­ciech Jaruzelski, who imposed mar­tial law in Poland to crush the Solidarity labor union, resigned as premier on Wednesday but retained his dominant position as head of the ruling Communist Party. 
After giving up his post as head of government, Jaruzelski was named to the largely ceremonial post of president, replacing Jenryk Jablonski. 
As Communist Party first secretary, the 62-year-oldJaruzelski occupies the most powerful posi­tion in the country. 
His resignation as premier ended an extraordinary period in the his­tory of Communist Poland and the Soviet bloc in which a four-star army general held the two most powerful positions in the country: head of the party and head ofthe government. 
During martial law, the army, and not the Communist Party, appeared to be in control of the country, an unusual situation for a Soviet bloc country. 
For a part of that time Jaruzelski also was defense minister, a post he relinquished in 1983. But he was named chairman of the National Defense Council, which preserves many martial law powers, and he still holds that post. 
Deputy Premier Zbigniew Mes­sner, an economist who was hand­picked by Jaruzelski to head the government's economic reform program two years ago, was asked to form a new government. 
The changes were made at the in­augural session ofthe newly elected Sejm, or parliament, which adopted the changes unanimously. 
"When the baby was born, to say we felt ecstasy and just incredible cheerful joy is an understatement," King said. 
He was there when his wife gave birth, as was the adoptive father, Ernie Jalbert, and the two sisters' patents. 
Both couples agreed to explain the circumstances of her birth with the child "when she is old enough to understand," according to the state­ment. 
The family had refused all com­ment until the news conference because of an exclusive agreement to appear on a syndicated television show. Malden Hospital would say only that the baby was normal and healthy. 
"We wanted to leave some things unsaid," said King, who is a public 




CHR S' 
ICE CREAM 
one•.....•. Get one FREE 
3 to 6 pm on Saturday 
Mumt~ the wnrd. Just flash •.'our NDorSMCID while ordering 
r,_..._...._.._...._.._~~~._....._...._..~.._...._...._..~~---,. 
I SPEND THE WEEKEND WITH us II I FOR THE II NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH I 
I 
8 THE MIAMiv u"mm.ICANES I FOOTBALL GAME I NOVEMBER 30 , 1985 II I
AT THE ORANGE BOWL 

I Il
I THE HOLIDAY INN FORT LAUDERDALE AIRPORT I CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT STATE ROAD 84 & 1-95 I 
• Complimentary Airport Shuttle Service 
* Welcome Gift & 2 for 1 Drink at Check In 
l 
• 
Two Pools and Tennis Courts 

• 
Bus Service Available to the Game 



Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 -page 8 
The Obsr~r/Hann~.~ Hacker 
McCorry represented the American Graduate School ofInternational Business at an MBA mini­forum at the Center for Continuing Education 
relations official with the American Education Association. 
He said the family also had agree­ments to share their story with Red­book, People and Boston magazines and The Boston Herald newspaper. 
King said the couples were being paid "peanuts" for their stories, but added, "I'm not rich and I can use a few peanuts." 
The family began working in 1983 for a child for Jalbert, 39, who is unable to bear children because ofa hysterectomy 18 years ago. 
King was artificially inseminated by a doctor with sperm from Jalbert, a police officer in Beverly. She became pregnant, but suffered a mis­carriage. 
"I lost the baby after 16 weeks. I was devastated that she lost her baby. I did not feel a loss for myself," she said. 

tll!l X(]Ut:'~DJUJ[; ,·1·•· G.'!.:..~~ Unlv•ralty p ...., ..!!f~ Z7i!-8Z4!1 
Lunches starting at. ______s2.95 
· Open 7 Days a Week 

Dinners starting at._______s4.25 
2 Locations: 
lar open 7 days a weft:

South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy. (Roseland) 
llon.-Thura.: 11:30 a.•.-10 p.•.

Next to Randall's Inn 272-7376 
Frt...s.t.: 11:30 •·•··11 P.•·

'Elkhart, 610 N. Nappanee Sl 293-3499 Sun. & Holidays 11:30 L•.-Ul p.a 

HERE'SHOW: 

• Powerful English language commands manage data for over 1.000.000" users. 
.COme See aDemonstration Today~ 
,i~al Sp"iolldnq in computer wftwaN',

lli'17
~  ha<dwoN' ond booh  
d0, 1639 N. Ironwood South Bend  c:!._b Drive  Mon. thru Fri. 10-5 Sat. 12-5 277-5026  

Ashton-Tate Is a trademark of Ashton-Tate. dBase II Ia a registered trademark of Ashton-tate. 
UNITED WAY 
c 

A 
8 M 
p 
5 
A 
I G 

N 
SODA 
PIZZA POPCORN 
$3 

TONIGHT 9-12:30 
SPONSORED BY THE SOPHOMORE AND .JUNIOR CLASSES AND STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Pizza araelousl~ donated ·~Dominos 



View~_o__l_._n__t___________
w_e_e_k_e_n_d_E_d_it-io_n_,_N_o_ve_m_b_e_r_s_-_9_,_1_9_s_s_--p-ag_e_9_ 
The Hurleys thank ND community for support 
Dear Father Hesburgb: 
Please accept our very belated thanks for the support you and the entire Notre Dame community provided us during the time we remained in South Bend with our son Kevin after his tragic accident. 
Dick and Celeste Hurley guest column 
To feel so wonderfully secure after driving him to Notre Dame to begin his freshman year was delightful. Little did we know that two weeks later our joy would be shattered by a terrifying phone call informing us that Kevin, having been struck by a car, was critically injurt>d with little hope for survival. 
Words could never adequately describe what has transpired since that phone call at 6 
a.m. on Sept. 7, 1985. What we do know, however, is that Our Lord was everpresent, most specifically through the compassion, presence and prayers of the Notre Dame family. 
You captured the essence of it all at the lovely Mass you celebratedfor Kevin at Sacred Heart when you said, "I can think of no other university where this would occur." You were referring to the demonstration of"caring and compassion" whlch poured forth in ways too numerous to count, but most poignantly in the attendance at that Mass. 
We continue to offer prayers of tlianksgiv­ing for the Notre Dame community, without whom we could not have coped with this 

tragedy. You are our tangible strength and our 
hope. You identified and met needs we could 
not even raise to awareness at the time. 
You can be proud of the reaching-out of religious and lay administrators, that from faculty and students, to University employees in every imaginable area from security to cafeteria to cashiers to groundskeepers. We learned the most profound meaning of "we are ND" and earnestly pray that Kevin will recover to someday at least appreciate this, and at best return to the University as an active participant in Notre Dame family life. 
We pray meanwhile, for divine guidance In our devoted efforts to make insightful and ef­fective decisions in accordance with God's plan. 
The pain is severe, the sorrow of Kevin's losses sometimes overwhelming. In our mo­ments of greatest despair we are uplifted by the many young people who continue to maintain such a positive attitude In their en­couraging correspondence and presence. 
We do miss the physical presence of Father David Tyson, Father Gene Gorsky, Sister Jean Lenz, Emil Hofman, Brian Bates, the Marks: Huber and Bomber from Howard Hall, Bill Healy and the multitude of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's people who were faithfully there for us over time. Although we have ourfriends and family nearby for support now, we shall always feel the "special hand" of the Notre Dame community as a unique and lrreplicable experience. 
Again thank you for both the fruits of your leadership and for your personal concern for Kevinand for us. 

Judicial coordinator requests some compassion 
I sent to Father Dar,id Tyson, vice president for student affairs, the following commen­tary as an open letter to all members of the Notre Dame community: 
I like very much the way that the rules and regulations of this University, including the parietals policy, distinguish the Univeristy of Notre Dame. I always have enjoyed the man­ner in which this school places the character 
ofits students in exaltation. 
Karen Ingwersen guest column 
In addition, I believe that the specific rule of parietals is welcomed by the vast majority of the student body as a beneficial institution 
that places each of us under mild supervision 
by individuals who care, somewhat in the 
same manner that our parents would su­
pervise each ofus. 
I cannot, however, agree with a penalty that is so harsh that it allows for no compassion on the part ofthe University. I believe the penalty for violating parietals is so severe that it detracts from many, if not all, of the positive aspects of this visitation policy. 
Do not misunderstand me; I believe rules should be enforced. Furthermore, penalties should exist which will ensure that these rules are respected and obeyed by the majority of students. I also believe, however, that these punishments should be in accordance with the importance of the rule. 
At a Christian and Catholic University, the importance of rules should be determined based on the ethical and moral implications of the rule or on the potential for endangering the greater University community. The penalty imposed on those individuals who vi­olate the University visitation policy definitely does not fall under these crltera. 

Rather, given that parietals are not intended to address the University's sexuality code or, for that matter, any other moral issue, these penalties seem almost malicious in nature. 
In conclusion, I believe this policy of the· University does and will continue to mar the characterofour University. A change is neces­sary to ensure that the administrators of our institution are not required to abide by a policy that is not in keeping with the charac­ter ofour community. 
Unfortunately, this change cannot be ef­fected soon enough to help two individuals who represented everything that this Univer­sity appears to uphold, such as caring for ot­hers, compassion and understanding in a time of need, and simply setting aside all concerns for oneselfin order to help someone else. 
These individuals acted in a manner that would make many universities proud of their students. I only wish that Notre Dame, with its keen sense of family and care and suppon of that family, shared that same pride. Instead, it has deserted, or rather, banished, at least one member who needed the care and support of this family In the time ofher greatest need. 
I fear that this action and the fear that similiar actions will be fonhcoming have per­manenty disillusioned many ofits members. 
Thank you for your time and consideration. 
Karen Ingwersen is a senior accounting major and judicial coordinator at Notre Dame. 
P.O. BoxQ 
Ineffective senate has been around too long 
/Jear Editor: 
Can you believe it? Our elected leaders have turned into monsters who want to eliminate the last bastion offree speech left on campus, that glorious paragon of enlighten­ment and responsibility: the Student Senate. 
Of course, this is not exactly true. In fact, the student leaders want to do something quite humane -they want to shoot a dying horse. The senate has been a rock around the neck of student government long enough. Abolishing it would not signal the end of an era but the end of an idea only several years old which has proven its inability to affect the administration, the: student or student life in any way. 
Without the senate, the Campus Life Coun­cil can return to a position ofimportance. The CLC, rel·ognized by the Board ofTrustees, has shown itselfresponsive to students in the past. Before the senate made a mockery of the channels of communication between stu­dents and the administration, the CLC affected student life many times in a positive manner. 
Moreover, a "forum for the student voice" can be found in the Hall President's Council. Do not tell me the senate ever provided that voice; a.~ a senate member, I know it has not. As a hall president, though, I have seen the 
Doonesbury 
record of the HPC on student issues, and it is an admirable one. The HPC can and has handled issues as great as those debated in the senate, and debated, and debated.... 
Throw out the senate. By its very nature, it will never represent anyone. Take the HPC and the CLC out ofits shadow. Then, you will find a much more representative and respected body in the HPC; you will find a CLC which can work for the students; and you will find a strongand effective student govern­ment. 
Steve Kern Carroll hallpresident HPC represenative to Student Senate 
We should clean house before attacking USSR 
Dear Editor: 
Alison Pivonka wrote in her column on Oc­tober 17 that "Many ofthe same organizations which have responded to the call for divest­ment in South Africa continue to maintain their interests in the Soviet Union ..." While I hope this does not stifle the grain exporters of this country, I agree with such a view. However, I differ somewhat with other com­ments made in the article. The first and slightest is that the Soviets did at least have a pretext for the incursion in that 

!T'5 &XACTLY WHAT I WA.NTW, MOM. IT N!Zf)5 A lim& WOO<, !JUTIT'S RiGHT NCAR. AU 7H& 
GAU&RJ£!3/ 
the Afghan military had been trained for some years in the Soviet Union, and the government ofAfghanistan was in idealoglcal sync with the Soviets. This in no way excuses the atrocities subsequent to the occupation. Also, Congress funded the "covert" aid to the Afghani resis­tance with little, ifany, of the opposition that was expressed to the covert operations against Nicaragua. This happened despite the much higher level of funding. One may only speculate at the amount of money forwarded by the CIA before the open admissions of covert assistance. 
Furthermore, the characterization of media neglect of this war seems to me Inaccurate. The information in Plvonkas' writing was not entirely unfamiliar to me, at least, and I had heard of other horrors besides. Within the past two days there was mention on television of the situation in Afghanistan but it wa.~ tucked in between coverage of the "Achille Uauro" hijacking. 
This leads me to my final point, and the one which I believe most important. When even a single one of our own citizens is killed it naturally draws more attention than many many deaths to a people largely unknown to us. This same sort of tendency causes us to notice more acutely the wrong doings of a government from which we as members of Notre Dame make money. I believe it is ab­solutely necessary for us to keep our own 
Garry Trudeau 
IOON'T5UP­
~YOU'l? HAV~ANY 
Pf5TO 54UCE. I 
K-v--~._ 

household clean if we are to assault the wrongs ofthe Soviet Union. Otherwise we are just like the pot calling the kettle black, and at least in the eyes of a non-panisan judge we would only seem to be political opportunists. 
Gregory Derby Notre Dame alumnus 

Blumb commended for excellent Faust article 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to commend Jeff Blumb for his excellent article "Facts Speak for Themselves" in the Nov. 1-2 issue ofThe Observer. 
I especially was disturbed to read about the scarcity of all-Americans and Academic All­Americans during Gerry Faust's years. Just im­agine all ofthe potential wasted in those years. It seems to me that this fact should be upset­ting, not only to win-at-all-cost Irish fans such as myself. 
It ought to be apparent to everyone that Faust is not providing the necessary leader­ship like that which produced 22 Academic All-Americans during the years of Parseghian and Devine. I do not think that even Faust could figure out how to blame this fact on in­juries, wet fields or wishbone offenses. 
Mtcbaelj. Cbmell Notre Dame alumnus 

Quote of the day 
"H you really want the last word in an argu­ment, try saying, 'I guess you're right.'" 
Funny, Funny World 

--------------~--------­
-------------------------------------~·-----· 
View~_o__l_._n__t__________
w_ee_k_e_n_d_E_d_it-io_n_._N_o_v_em_b_e_r_s_-_9_,_1_9_8_5_-_p_a..g_e_l_O 


Summit should end arms race not produce defense 


With the summit in Geneva fast approach­ing, many topics concerning nuclear war are likely to be discussed. One of them may or may not be civil defense. With the rapid "proliferation ofnuclear weapons, the plans for the survival of a nuclear attack have also un­dergone rapid changes. In an attempt to provide our nation with the best possibe chance for survival, the United States has con­stantly revised its civil defense program. 
Tom Varnum 
r 
guest column
r 
During the 1950s, civil defense was in­troduced at an early age. Periodically, drills ere performed in grade schools across the na­tion. When the siren sounded, two thoughts would flash through the young child's mind: duck and cover. Across the nation, children were taught to duck their heads to avoid the initial shock wave caused by a nuclear explo­sion. Then they were taught to take cover in the nearest building so they would not be af. fected by the radiation. Ifthere were no build­ings in the ar,.,.,, any car or tree would do. The 

P.O. Box Q 
Students lacked class when booing Beuerlein 
DearEditor: 
I would like to address an issue that has been bothering me since last Saturday after­noon, when we beat the Naval Academy, 41­
17. It is a point I believe many students are aware of, and yet, are now afraid to speak publicly about. 
In the founh quaner of the game, a very close friend of mine experienced pain that even words cannot describe. When Steve Beuerlein went in to command the offense, he was greeted with boos from the student sec­tion. This is a disgrace. I want to tell those stu­dents that I have never seen such a classless act by anyone in my life. That's correct, down right classless. Deplorable. Sure, you can argue that you have the right to boo and do anything else you want to at the ball game, but that is your own business. That is not my 
point. The issue is, you are dealing with a per­son who has the intensity, glow and spirit of Notre Dame, as well as personal feelings. 
I only hope that no one ever turns their back on you and shows you suchshivering cal­lousness -it buns, stings and gnaws at you like an acid -take my word for it. I saw it. 
Tom Galloway Notre Dame Player 
Jealousy could explain complaint about photo DearEditor: 
I would like to respond to a letter in the Nov. 6 Observer that was submitted by some women from Breen-Phillips Hall, concerning a picture of a USC cheerleader that appeared in the Oct. 29 Observer. 
First, these women take offense at the fact that a USC cheerleader was pictured in our school newspaper, instead ofone ofour own cheerleaders. Why? Our own Notre Dame cheerleaders do. a great job, but we see them all year long. What's wrong with picturing another school's cheerleader? I found it very refreshing and different, a nice change. 
Second, the ladiesobject to the caption that appeared under the photo, which read, "but her appearance at the game was viewed with joy by many ofthe Notre Dame student body." Why? The caption is accurate and, in my opinion, inoffensive. The young lady's ap­pearance was viewed with much joy by a large ponion of the student body, myself included. 
These women make a fundamental mistake by believing that because this young lady's beauty was being appreciated, a value judg­ment was being made. Appreciation ofbeauty and judgment ofa person's wonh are two dif. ferent things. The young woman's beauty is unquestionable. But I didn't hear anyone children were assured that it would not take more than an hour before they would be able come out from under cover. By that time, all the radiation would have disappeared and they could live happily ever after. This was a truly ingenious plan to survive a nuclear at­tack. It would obviously be effective during the most devasting attack the Russians could throw at us. 
Unfonuantely, scientists continued to revise, improve and increase our nucleaer ar­senal. To combat these technological im­provements, the government also improved our civil defense plan. The revised civil defense plan was centered around bomb shel­ters. The government advised people to build this home-away-from-home in their own back Y¥d, stock it with food and water and keep it ready at all times. They also advised people to bring a portable radio with them so they would know when it would be safe to come out. This is a very bright idea when you con­sider that the range of ponable radios is un­limited when underground and radio stations are virtually impervious to damage from a nuclear attack. When the warning was sounded, families gathered up all their posses­sions and dashed offto their very own hole in the ground. They were assured that their confinement would only last a week or two. By that time, all the radiation would have dis­appeared and they could live happily ever after. Despite the proliferation of nuclear weapons, the civil defense plan was still one step ahead. 
During the 1970s the civil defense plan was upgraded once again. this time the plan in­volved relocation. People who lived in high risk areas were instructed, in times ofcrisis, to pack up and head for safer ground. This plan relied on the ability ofpeople to remain calm, cool and collected in a time ofdire crisis. The government felt people would patiently drive to a safer area while their homes were being obliviated by a nuclear missile. People were advised to remain relocated for a couple of years. By that time, all the radiation would have disappeared and they could live happily ever after. Once again, the civil defense plan has kept pace in the arms race. 
As you can see, some of the civil defense plans developed by the United States have serious drawbacks. I am not sure, however, that the plans were meant to be effective. Most of the people who create these plans know that there is very little we can do to 
make any comment concerning her per­
sonality. 

I take offense at the ladies from Breen­
Phillips asking "Why, even in this day and age, 
are women valued solely for their physical at­
tributes?" Since when is it offensive to 
recognize and appreciate beauty? Thepoint to 
be made is that the young woman's person­
hood was not judged; her beauty simply was 
admired. 

In closing, I would like to put some ques­
tions to the ladies. Do you wear makeup? Do 
you wear jewelry? Do you wear nice clothes 
to make yourself look more attractive? If 
someone were to appreciate your attractive­
ness, I am quite sure that you would not send a 
letter to The Observer. 

Shawn Ridley GraceHall 
USC photograph broke usual South Bend blahs 
DearEditor: 

We would like to express our views regard­
ing the picture ofa gorgeous USC cheerleader 
in the Oct. 29 edition ofThe Observer. Thank 
you for that refreshing reprieve from the 
South Bend blahs. 

How anyone could possibly find the photo 
and caption offensive is beyond us. Ofcourse 
the cheerleader was "viewedwith great joy by 
the student body," including us, during the 
game. We do not have Notre Dame football 
calendars on our walls. 

The Observer is just serving the Notre 
Dame community which just happens to be 
one of the last great bastions of male 
supremacy. Unfonunately, Notre Dame 
women tend to get a little bent out ofshape by 
anything they might consider female exploita­
tion. 

like it or not, ladies, admiration of the female form is a great American male tradi­tion, right up there with ownership of guns and pickup trucks. It's high time Notre Dame women realized there is a real world out there, and we Notre Dame men cannot wait to get out there. 
Dan Scanlan]r. Robertlsomjr. Randy Golob]r. Morrissey Hall 
No judgement passed on the girl's personality 
DearEditor: 

Arecent letter to the editor from six Breen­Phillips residents has finally prompted a letter from this apathetic senior. These young ladies complained about an Oct. 29 Observer photo ofa USC cheerleader. 
Their main issue was that the caption under the photo, "But her appearance at the game was received with joy by much of the Notre Dame student body," was anti-feminist and degrading to women, and was not the prevalent opinion on campus. 
Ladies, I beg to differ. I suggest that the majority of students on campus as well as the rest of the fans at the game were overjoyed that the USC cheerleaders were able to attend the game. I know I was. 
I also suggest that there is possibly a covert reason for such complaints to The Observer. The ladies could be jealous. They might be in­secure and have an inferiority complex and, therefore, resent the photo of an attractive USC cheerleader. 
In their complaint to The Observer these women also make a few rather prejudiced as­sumptions. Their complaint assumes the USC cheerleader is "just another dizzy blond." Need I remind them that USC is an excellent academic institution? 
The cheerleader in the photo is most cer· tainly as smart as she is beautiful. Fur­thermore, since when is admiring a person's physical beauty equivalent to lack of respect? How can one respect someone that he or she can not even look at? 
To paraphrase a popular line, I think everyone should date a USC cheerleader at least once. 
Christopher]. Benz AlumniHall 

USC band performance proved they have talent 
DearEditor: 
The Notre Dame-USC football game was a most enjoyable one for many fans, especially Notre Dame enthusiasts. The clear skies and warm sll'll combined with the inspired play of the Notre Dame team made it a day to remem­ber for quite some time. Moreover, the Notre Dame band entertained us with their rousing halftime show re-emphasizing that they are certainly among the best bands in the nation. 
Fans were presented with an added treat, however, as the USC band staked its claim as one of the top collegiate bands. Although the bands differ in style, one traditional and the other more flamboyant, both should be ap­plauded for their ability to excite and enter­tain football fans. 
The USC band is an integral part of a 

spectacle which includes a mascot, baton twirlers and cheerleaders. Also an important part ofthis spectacle, the cheerleaders' dance routines were much appreciated by most fans attending the game. Apparently, some not-so­appreciative fans include six Breen-Phillips women who felt "degraded" by a picture ofa USC cheerleader which appeared in The Ob­server on Oct. 29. 
These young ladies are offended by the fact that "much of the Notre Dame student body viewed her appearance with much joy," and they ask the batHing question, "Why, even in this day and age, are women valued solely for their physical attributes?" 
survive an all-out nuclear war. Perhaps these plans were meant to supply hope to the mil­lions ofAmericans who yearn to see the light at the endofthe tunnel. Ifthis was the purpose of the civil defense plans, I cannot dispute them. If, however, they were meant to be ef­fective, we are in trouble. Ifwe are supposed to believe that these plans would be effective in the event ofa nuclear attack, there is some­thing very wrong. If the government spent more oftheir time trying to end the arms race instead of updating the civil defense plan, maybe we would have something better to hope for. Perhaps we can accomplish this at Geneva. I certainly hope so. 
If we cannot accomplish this at Geneva however, the civil defense plan will probably need to revised once again. I believe I have come up with the ultimate plan. This plan will never need to be updated. There is no duck and cover, bomb shelters or relocation. This plan can be implemented anytime and anywhere. It is very simple. First, put your hands behind your head. Second, bend over placing your head between your knees. Finally, kiss your buns goodbye. 
Tom Varnum is a freshman atNotre Dame. 
It is quite remarkable that these women are so misguided as to consider a cheerleader doing dance routines during a football game the prototypical woman leading her daily life. If we were to go to a bodybuilding contest where men were enthusiastically praised for their muscles would we be so absurd as to consider this applause a blanket statement on society's opinion of men? Certainly not. , Surely cheerleaders would agree that they perform to excite and entertain the crowd and that they should be recognized for their ability to do just what is expected of them. The fact that Dianna Billings and friends assume that appreciation of a woman's outer beauty and performing ability precludes ap­preciation of her inner beauty is very disturb­ing. 
It is people such as these who fail to treat women with the respect they deserve when they exhibit a curious distaste for the recogni­tion of a woman's superficial loveliness. Any reasonable person acknowledges the fact that beauty may be expressed in various ways, not the least ofwhich is physical appearance. 
As the thousands of fans who remained for almost an hour after the game to watch the USC spectacle will attest, these young men and women were quite successful in enter­taining our eyes and ears. Indeed, Keats was right,"... a thing ofbeauty is joy forever." 
Tom Hardiman Mike Galvin jim Doyle BobAnnour Pat Me Cauley FrltzDuda Morrissey Hall 
Mistake on catalogue 

'shuld' be subtracted DeerEditor: 
"Last knight when J red 'Revised Addition' stamped on every Notre Dame catalogue of course selections for the spring semester, I had to right to offer my complements. Eye herd this was know accident. Bee knot afraid two sea the principal involved hear. Lettuce prey that hour university mite publish the se­quel: 'Revised Subtraction.' Wee are weight­ing four this site with baited breadth." 
jeffLaurenson Rob Hennig Pangborn Hall 

Kazoos at game viewed as blessing for ND fans 
DearEditor: 
I just thank the Lord we had the kazoos on Saturday. 
Eric Hunter NotreDame student 


lbr~rr/Paul ~r 

Pulling together to fight disease 
LYNNE R. STRAND 
features writer 
L
ook at that irresistable face. 

Three-year-old Christopher 
Bankowski has much to smile about -for 
the United Way has helped him a lot 
along the way. 

Christopher's winning smile is shining 
all over St. joseph County as the local 
19H'; United Way Campaign's poster 
child. 

Christopher wa.~ born at Mishawaka's 
St. joseph's Hospital with hydrocep­
halus, an abnormal increase in the amount offluid In the cranium, and myelomengiocele (spina bifida), a deformity of the base of the spine. 
Christopher was transferred to the Memorial Hospital Neo-Natal Intensive Care Unit, where the opening in his back was closed and a shunt was implaced for the water on his brain. 
The doctors told Christopher's parents "... that he would most likely have little or no movement from the waist down, that there would be bowel and bladder control problems, and that learning disabilities might be in store for him," says julie Bankowski, Christop­her's mother. 
But Logan Center, a United Way agency, has helped to change Christop­her's prognosis. 


·a··--=~~~:: 
' ·=,-= w·-n 
As a part of Logan's Home Start program, home-bound teacher Sherry 
Blueprint for fun times 
LYNNE R. STRAND 
features writer 

1-I 
ave you noticed that there is something special on campus? That there have been more social events than usual? 
Or maybe you've seen your friends and enemies get mysteriously locked up by Security? !lave you noticed a marathon of horror stories? !lave you danced away a 


United Way Campaign '85 
holiday among.o;t witches and goblins? Have you literally pulled your weight for a good cause? 
Have you noticed a special spirit ofgiving? If so, you have been a part of the Notre Dame 19H'; United Way Campaign. If not, you still have a chance to "Dance Your Class Off" Friday from 9 p.m. to 12:30 
a.m. in the ACC concourse. 

"No shoes will be allowed at this Sock-Hop dance," dance organizer Steve Georgi, sophomore class president, noted. "The music will be kind of'50s ... but we'll be playing all kinds of music. We don't want to turn anybody off." A disk jockey will play "older and newer music." 
"This will be our big push," Georgi said, noting that the student United Way Cam­paign wants to raise at least $7,500 this year, $100 more than was raised last year. "We're hoping for a lot ofpeople." 
For only $2, you can party away the night for a good cause. Pop and popcorn will be· available for a minimal fee and -everyone think Italian -Domino's will be donating the pizza. 
This United Way Campaign surely has something for everyone: ifyou do not want to "Dance Your Class Off," you can "sing your heart out" in the Up-Sync Contest next Thursday night. 
Somewhere on campus there must be another Bruce Springsteen or Madonna 
waiting in the wings. "'' 
just a reminder: the dorm tug-of-war finals will be held Friday at 5 p.m. on Green Field. In another "gripping" battle between North and South, it will be Pasquerilla West vs. Walsh and St. Edward's vs. Dillon vying for the first-place trophy. 
Getting out there and screaming for your team will be a big help for United Way. 
Pinter visited Christopher weekly until he was rwo. Infant stimulation exercises helped Christopher set personal goals such as developing his language, fine motor, gross motor, socialization, and self-help skills. 
"At the age ofrwo, he was going to school (Logan Center) everyday," notes Christopher's father, James Bankowski. "Since my wife is a school teacher, the JJR bus picks up Chrissy at the babysit­ter's and takes him home by 2:30." 
\.._ 
~-~ ·~-~~-
PIKMo from llnlted 'll'ay 


Happenings-page 2 . Weekend Edition, November 8-9, , 985 
ARRESTWARRANT
Alumnus finds purpose 
lOCK UP AFRIEND 
in serving Logan Center 
w:want 1s;;u"d t:y __./!1Lcthrt.;..__.PI_t:5C'' ',:;: ..... 


LYNNE R. STRAND 
features writer 

W 
hat do Domers do after they graduate? What do they do ifthey want to ·help people? 
When '80 graduate Patrick Man­gan thought about those questions, the answer he came up with was to become the assistant director ofthe St.Joseph County United Way. 
"United Way pulled all my Notre Dame experiences together," said Mangan, who was an American studies and communications major. "I work with people constantly; there is a strong community spirit here ... and many difficult problems." 
"The Notre Dame community gives a very significant amount of money towards our goal," Mangan 
r added: Last year, Notre Dame employees contributed $160,000 to the United Way's county-wide goal of S2.9 million. 
Also a part of the United Way effort, the student campaign raised S7,400 last year. "(Co-chairmen) Mike Huber and Bob McNamara are 
much more ambitious than past chairmen. They want to raise sig­nificantly more funds through direct and dorm donations and fundraisers." 
"The student campaign is very important," continued Mangan. "It's just not the money. The campaign points out that students, who are mostly visitors to this community, 


Chris 
continuedfrom page 1 
"Logan Center has fantastic programs," adds Bankowski. Logan provides the attention Christopher would not otherwise receive, such as swim, speech, and occupational therapy. 
Christopher was enrolled in Logan's two-and three-year-old programs, and he may soon enroll in a program to specifically help his ". . . developmentto enter the elementary classroom," says Bankowski. 
Except for Christopher's day care, the Bankowsis do not pay for any of Logan Center's services. 
"When Chrissy was tested develop­
mentally," boasts Bankowski, "he got 
158 points of a possible 160. He is 
~-------------------------------------------­
FONDA-U FONDUE PARLOR  EXPIRES  
100 Cmter Miwwaka Z55·15Z6  12/13/85  
DIVIDEND  

TO BEARER _SE;;..;;....;V...;;E;_N_D;;;...O.;...L;;;;;L;;;.;A...;.;R...;.;S;:;,..._______$ 7.00 
This check Is worth $7.00 off the purchase of a Total Combination Dinner for 2. Not valid with any other promotional offer. Valid Tuesday through Friday Dinner only 
Go Irish Beat Ole Miss 
W~t Qlolonial Jlancnkt lrtoust 
' 


Sl.OOOFF.::::hAd~ 
OUR SPECIALTY 
Limit 1

OVEN-BAKED per person APPL£ PANCAKES 
lJ .S. 31 North tn Roseland IA~:-ro-.s rrom the Holiday Inn) 272-7433 Opt~n 7 days a WHk at 6:00am 
care enough to give. This is a point ofinspiration. Ifvisitors care, surely those living in St. Joseph County can help out the United Way cam­paign." 
Commenting that both industry and the federal government are "retreating their support," Mangan stressed that "every dollar counts." 
"There are two questions people always ask me: 'Does the United Way really help people?' Yes. The Bankowskis know that first hand. The other, 'Does the money go where it is supposed to?' Yes ... 86 cents ofa dollar goes right to the agencies. Don't we wish we could 

United Way campaign ·as 

do that with our tax dollars?" Cam­paign and administration costs account for the other 14 cents. 
People are helping people, noted Mangan. "The United Way has 2,000 volunteers helping people through 36 agencies. Over 70,000 people are aided in some way, and the number will continue to grow." 
United Way's full-time operation in South Bend, Mangan said, con­sists ofpeople taking incoming calls; the allocations division, which reviews the budget and "stretches the funds;" and the planning divi­sion, which makes sure United Way is responsible to the community. 
advanced in many areas . . . his 
social invasion skills meet all stan­
dards." 
"He is a very, very, very social person. Chrissy is always smiling and always happy . . . Anyone he meets, he likes." Noting that he is the manage! of the Morris Park Country Club, Bankowski says, "Chrissy is around people a lot." 
Though Christopher is "verbally doing excellent," he managed to call University President Father Theodore Hesburgh "Father Hes­burt" at a tlniversity United Way Campaign kick-off. "Father Ted really got a big kick out ofthat," notes Bankowski. 
Christopher and his parents have been quite busy since the local United Way drive started in Septem­ber. "Good Morning America" inter­viewed Christopher and his father 
"I describe the United Way as local people solving local problems with local resources and local solu­tions," noted Mangan. "Since there are over 2,000 United Way or­ganizations in the country, each board ofdirectors decides who will be a United Way agency." 
"Some United Way organizations support Right to Life or Planned Parenthood, or maybe both ... This United Way supports neither. Our 36 agencies support the quality of life and caring of the community." The local United Way organization funds Catholic Social Services, which arranges adoptions "for those who might be considering an abortion," commented Mangan. 
He stressed that "services are accessible to all on all ends ofthe economic spectrum. Sometimes there is a fee based on the total family income and indebtedness, but no one pays the full price. United Way is not a hand-out, but a hand for people to help them-· selves." 
The United Way concept was born in Denver in 1887 when a Catholic priest, two ministers and a rabbi "united together to help their fellow flock. This was the first federated campaign, to help more than just one charity." 
Added Mangan, "This is one campaign for all other campaigns. This campaign is worth support­ing." 
As the United Way slogan says, "Thanks to you, it works for all of us. 
earlier this week. 
The blond thi-ee-year-old ob­viously loves cars. Says Bankowski, ". . . the first things Christopher asks when he meets somebody is 'What's your name?' 'What's your last name?' and 'Where's your car?' " 
When Christopher was born, the doctors said he would be confined to a wheelchair for life. "But now Chris­topher is on his second set of reciprocating braces and is starting to use forearm crutches," notes Bankowski. "By moving the upper part ofhis body, Chris can help move the lower part ofhis body." 
Noting the Notre Dame -Logan Center connection, Bankowski says that a Monday afternoon aid was one ofChristopher's favorites-"Pat from Notre Dame." 
Chrissy is probably one ofPat's favorites, too. 
Ph<JM N!Jn"llJ~f ~f/3.. :/1.~~· ?.-0 :_.W!)jL~.--......-..""'"­
0'"U .'d ,•<w ' A'• • ~ ( < ., 'rct••d _(.;fl:~IC.:i G..~il~ """". Pf:NIIi'f. ~OM;&; .o-J~.·0• 
,·. ' ·\f'e5t ...l..Q2.Jm...:_.J2C!.."i .~, ms: ... 
~-xan tocat 100 :•I Afrest. ··-"""'··""""'-'·-·~·· 
• .., ,,.. ··: o:_itlfJ'..JL~h:."'•*

·03··"· ·:r Arr;>:.t flftro.·;<?:-."5:~ ... 
!4 -:!, "'"kt.. w,SPA! {=t-A .. ..,_!'~· ~~l"-~ .:>-:::W.i..A-r><' ~~:-· <:;;,.;..;;~ P."-•~ --{, 
'~-~~-. ,· . 


.~ 
• ·~ ~!\. •.:-"c:'"~~r 1..•13/>U 

•~·~~<~< :· ', -~'.: t,..' ~,~···; . -:. ,-: , t". ~(..j,.-0-1 At,..i$1:(;\t· At..t.:'W 'trl¢: ');J\.io, 
Cf_i:\ti~I.!:IJ•.....::&c.ilA .fi.!?C~':I.f;t£. Ji.~(;j_JIMJ~.~!>~Dt:'; ~ 
l\t:rvM•8 o~_n.o: ~~::·~n.Y<~~~'k£ ~~,., ~~ .."f>T a•t-';"5£ ... ..,~.._.._ 3'\Jll' ~'·" ----.. RUl.[S.OF tOCK UP~"~'~'/ M"'Eil' 
1 AJ• a:,,.•: 'v: ,.• }c; X1 must oe presented with tt\1! arri)St w3rtant to :>e<: ur :•y m tt•t> :,ecunty f:lu!Jalny no tater tni!f\ 600 f!!'1 on tt\e day of 
,,· ,t 

·..,•.. n,,., :..e artw;t~;t must be on campus at me Umt> ot tM arrest , 'P" "· root!ted H tnt~ p@rson 1s not in tl'tt' :.tJted Jocatlot\ at 
.·~:;t<:d aqaln>t n:s ortwr own wtshes t< pl"esent~O ror ret~a'il!. 
p. ;t,._ .--~~,_., ~..., ,_ ... ..tSt~C w~H hav~ Jtt-0~~-) tr• a ~~leN~ 7 rM arrests wH! bl' hfit'l Ot!Oile ~·9 r,. )OITvesoav and WtNltV>sqay> and. 
. .... . ~,. -~; The Observer/Andy Sandler 
An "arrest warrant" waits to be carried out. 


Chinese, Vietnamese & American Food 
Oriental Express 
Carry Out Dint11g Room 
272-6702 e' ~e 
6329 University Commons ~\0'0. Just West ofUniversity Park Mall ~"' on State Road 23, Next to Kroger 
Mon. & Weds. 107.off withdiningroomcoupononly 

anb Jfamilu fRrstaurnnt 
Follow 23 South to: 
2610 Prairie Ave. 
South Bend 
288-3320 
NIG TCLUB 
Come to Tivoli's 
South Bend's Party Headquarters 
Open 6 nights a week Drinking and Dancing 9':00 pm ·? 
Located on U.S. 33 N. at North Village Mall 77-18 
Th~amr . 
Irish vs. Mississippi 
Time Saturday, November 9, 1985 
12:20 p.m. EST 
Series Mississippi 1, Notre Dame 0 
Last September 17, 1977 Mississippi 20, Notre Dame 13 
Meeting 
Notre Dame unranked Mississippi unranked
Rankings 
Game is sold out
Tickets 
The Schedule 
Notre Dame 

Sept. 14-(L) Mich., 20-12 Sept. 21-(W) Mich. St., 27-10 Sept. 28-(L) Purdue, 35-17 Oct. 5-(L) Air Force, 21-15 Oct. 19 • (W) Army, 24-10 Oct. 26 • (W) USC, 37-3 Nov. 2-(W) Navy, 41-17 Nov. 9-MISSISSIPPI Nov. 16-at Penn State Nov. 23-LOUISIANA ST. Nov. 30 -at Miami 
Mississippi 1 Sept. 7-(T) Memp. St., 17-17 
1 
Sept.14• (L)Arkansas, 24•19 
I Sept. 21-(W) Ark. St., 18-16 
i 
1 Sept. 28-(W) Tulane, 27-10 
1 Oct. 5-{L)Auburn, 41-0 Oct.12-(L) Georgia, 49-21 Oct. 26 -(W) Vandy, 35-7 Nov. 2 • (L) LSU, 14-0 Nov. 9 -at Notre Dame Nov. 16-at Tennessee Nov. 23-at Mississippi St. 
----~ 

The Stadium Notre Dame Stadium ( 59,075) 

TV and Radio 
WNDU-TV(Ch. 16) jack Nolan and jeffjeffers 
USA Network national telecast Eddie Doucette and Kyle Rote, Jr. 
Television Enterprise Network 70 markets nationwide Harry Kalas and jack Ham 
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and Tom Pagna WNDU-AM 1500 

• 
flS 




The Observer Long hours without notice 
Work of managers helps team to succeed 
~y NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
W 
hen the Notre Dame football team stormed out of the locker room in green jerseys for the second half of the l'I!C game, Irish coach Gerry faust received much of the recognition for the switch. However, the student managers working behind the scenes deserve tht· credit for making the change without any mistakes. 
Such is the life of a student manager · working long 
hours at menial tasks without notice in order to ensure 
the smooth operation of Irish teams in all sports. 
The three senior managers in charge of football for 19H'; arc head manager Mark Gcss, personnel manager Mark Murphy and equipment manager Bob Landry. 
The Student Managers Organization is composed of I 5 seniors, 15 juniors, and a larger number ofsophomores and freshmen .. 
Each of the seniors heads one sport, while the juniors aid them with that particular team. Sophomores and freshmen help wherever they are needed, while all the managers help out with football and basketball. 
According to l..andry, each of the three senior football managers has spent about 70 hours a week at their job since their arrival on campus in early August. Junior managers must spend up to 45 hours a week working, while sophomores and freshmen work several days a week for at least I 0 hours and often more. 
Despite the long hours, the competition to be a manager is tough. All freshmen and sophomores are allowed to work ifthey are willing to put in the time. In the spring, the three_ managers for football are selected and the other future seniors are ranked. These seniors then choose the sport they would like to manage in the order oftheir ranking. The three football managers then select I 5 sophomores out of a group of about 30 to work as juniors, while the rest are turned away. 
According to Landry, handling the green jersey switch is just one ofthe many jobs ofthe football managers. 
see MANAGERS, page 2-3 
weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 


lbeOboerftr/HonnaHocller 


ND linebacker tradition 
Furjanic strives to be among greats 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
otre Dame has had Its share of great
N middle linebackers In the past, and senior Inside linebacker Tony Furjanlc Is making a bid this year to be remembered along with them. 
So far this season, he leads the Irish defense with 99 tackles over seven games, a figure which includes 23 solo tackles, 44 first hits and 32 assists. 
And a switch in defensive philosophy over the last couple of games has pleased the Chicago native as well. Prior to the USC game, the Irish were using the basic 3-4 defense. But for the last two games, Notre Dame has alternated between the 3-4 and a 4-3 alignment In which the Irish use two down linemen and five linebackers. 
Furjanlc, who plays on the weak side (away from the tight end) In the regular 3-4 defense, enjoys playing middle linebacker In the 4-3 setup because it allows him to be near the ac­tion more often. 
"I like being in the middle," says Furjanic. "It whereas sometimes when we're In the 3-4 and the flow of the play goes away from me, there's less chance I'll be able to get in on the play. 
"It's not a big change, but it puts more pressure on the linebackers because we've got two backers playing on the ~ackles and three more playing behind them. But since we're so deep In the llnebacking position, it gives more people a chance to play." 
Coming out of Mt. Carmel High School In Chicago, Furjanlc was a highly regarded recruit for the Irish. He was an all-state pick on both offense and defense, playing guard and linebacker, and was chosen one of the top 50 incoming freshman by Football News. 
"I chose Notre Dame partly because of the academics and the fact I knew I'd get a degree," Furjanic says. "But it was more than that. I knew I'd be forced into getting better as a petsQn. I think I've grown here. That's some­thing I don't think I could have done anywhere else. 
"Besides, Notre Dame also ls close to home 
Furjanic chases USC tight endjoe Cormier. gives me a chance to be around the ball more, set FURJANIC, page 1-3 
.• -___,.·-----~ ....... --. -.,.-::.-·c-l ·-------------------­
r 
r 
r 
-~ -~ --~---------­
Irish Extra -page 2-3 


Here's a chance for you to write your own column 

Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 

Jfella again, everybody! 
With a load of papers and tests awaiting me in the next week, there just hasn't been time to write a column for this week's game with Ole Miss. So, here's a chance to help me out of a real bind. It's called "write your own column." 
I'll provide you with most of the materials. All you have to do is throw in those key phrases, and you'll have all the information you need to have an informative and entenaining column which will delight yourself and your friends. Not only will you be informed, I'll get a chance to stay in school. 
So, grab a pencil or pen, and let's get started. 
(Your opening ltne here). 
Last week, the question was "Why?" This week, the question for the Notre Dame football team has changed to (Interrogative). 
Irish football coach Gerry Faust seemed to have (verb) when he said Steve Beuerlein would (verb) for the Irish this Saturday. It (verb) most observers of the Irish, who were (adjective) with the perfor­mance of backup signal caller Terry Andrysiak. And the confusion hasn't stopped there. 
This week, Faust opened practices by putting Beuerlein with the (noun ) and Andrysiak with the (noun). What helped muddle things even more was Faust's silence at Tuesday's press conference about his starting quarterback. Yet among all the (noun), one has to wonder whether it really will matter who (verb) this week against Ole Miss. 
After all, the Irish offense has (verb) on the legs ofAllen Pinkett for most of the year, but especially the last three games. Pinkett now is ranked eighth among (noun) in the country, and continues to gain ground thanks to a rejuvenated (noun), Which had its problems ear­lier in the year. 
Things have straightened themselves out, however, in the last three games, much to the delight of (person). Nobody had been more frustrated at the lack ofoffensive production than (person), but the events ofthe last two weeks have made a dramatic change in attitude for (person) as well as the rest of the Irish. 
(Noun ) is now the key word for the Irish, and it shows up primarily in the defensive unit. The Irish are playing much more (adverb) in the last three games, which is (verb) considering this is the side of the line that has been hurt most by Injuries. 
One of the most (adjective) aspects of the defense in the last three weeks has been the play of the linebackers. George Kelly's inside players along with Bishop Harris' outside group have done a (phrase). Not only are the Irish linebackers (verb) the run, but they no longer are (verb phrase) on those shan pass plays as they were earlier in the season. 
Of course, some of the help in that respect comes from the (adjective) play of the Irish defensive secondary. After the Purdue and Air Force games, It looked like the best way for opponents to (verb) against the Irish was to throw. That is no longer the case, as Navy found out. 
Despite their (adjective) play ofthe last three weeks, this is no time for the Irish to (phrase). Mississippi is having a (adjective) time this year, and a lot ofpeople already are looking to next week's matchup with Penn State. Still, the Irish should know be~ter than to (verb) any opponent, especially Mississippi. It was the Rebels who (verb) the Irish with a 20-13 win in jackson in 1977 to give that championship team its only loss. 
Funhermore, the Rebels are (adjective) than their 3-4-1 record. The Ole Miss defense looked pretty (adverb) last Saturday against LSU, while the offense will be (verb) by the loss of quanerback Kent Austin. Austin injured himself in last week's game against LSU, leaving (noun) to fill his shoes. 
Overall, though, it looks like it will be another (adjective) weekend for· the Fighting Irish, which should make Gerry Faust a very (adjective) man, indeed. 
And that's the way it is. 
Pick of the Week. . This much I can handle. Take a break from varsity athletics and take in a little NVAaction this weekend. It's the finals of Interhall Flag Football Sunday at Notre Dame Stadium when Farley faces Pasquerilla East at 2 p.m. 

Misadaalppl Spom Information Pt 
Shown here dodging a defender in Mississippi's 24-19 loss to for the Rebels with 305 yards and two touchdowns Arkansas earlier this season, Nathan Wonsley is the leading rusher 
Managers 
continuedfrom page 1 
"On Monday I pull the opposing jerseys for the prep team and do all the game laundry," he said. "On Wed­nesday I get ready for the game by making the game rolls (shorts, socks, and other equipment). Thursday is ticket day and time to pull the game jerseys, while Friday is more game preparation. 
"Friday is also the day we paint the helmets," he ex­plained. "We have eight people painting and wrapping the face masks, while 20 others get all the game equip­ment, coaches equipment and psyche signs ready. These people are there from 6:30p.m. to 2:30a.m." 
The football managers have no time to rest as they arrive at the stadium four hours before the game. They 
keep busy by setting up the locker room, distributing  "I d•  
equipment, hanging jerseys and helping the players in  tod  
anyway.  tact  
During the game, Gess handles Faust's headset, Murphy  The  
keeps  statistics  on  minutes  played,  while  Landry  mar  
handles any needed equipment changes. The l 5 juniors  WOI  
and the few sophomores selected work in the locker  
room, handle footballs or work with the visitors.  "Th  
che  
go;  
In spite of all the demands, there are some rewards for  Spe'  
those who put in the long hours. The seniors who make  reat  
it receive full or partial scholarships, while those who  roo:  
are sophomores or older get free books and tickets to  soc  
other games.  the•I  
I  
"It's really hard to spend the time managing and still  No  
study," Landry said. "My grades suffered  some  as  a  do  
result, but it really pays off in getting a job because an  pla  
employer sees that I can handle the work load.  be  


Notre Dame statistics 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2541 2470 Pinkett 7 181 796 4.4 8 43 Total Plays 503 518 H. Francisco 6 32 158 4.9 2 16 Yards per Play 5.1 4.8 Slams 7 32 142 4.4 323 Yards per Game 363.0 352.9 Green 5 3 54 18.0 0 40 
PENAL TIES-YARDS 45-370 29-225 Monahan 6 17 54 3.2 0 11 FUMBLES-LOST 9-5 23-14 Andrysiak 5 11 37 3.4 0 18 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 141 141 Taylor 4 6 19 3.2 1 7 
By Rushing 68 71 Brown 6 2 9 4.5 0 7 
ByPassing 68 62 Southall 1 2 8 4.0 0 8 
By Penalty 5 8 Jefferson 1 2 7 3.5 0 6
,

THIRD DOWNS-CONV 4Q-103 36-100 Carter 4 5 1.3 0 3 
_, .4
Percentage .388 .360 Bauerlein 7 30 -43 , 16 POSSESSION TIME 209:13 210:47 ------------------­
Minutes per Game 29:53 30:07 NOTRE DAME 7 322 1246 3.9 15 43 
OPPONENTS 7 321 1243 3.9 7 39 
PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TO SCORING GTD ------------------­
PA R·PA S FG TP Bauerlein 7 151 75 .497 7 991 2 Carney 7 0 15-17 o-o o 12-11 s1 Andrysiak 5 30 19 .633 1 304 2 Pinkett 7 8 o-o ()-{)0 o-o 48 ------------------­
Brown 6 3 o-o o-o o 0-0 18 NO 7 181 94 .519 81295 4 Stams 7 3 o-o o-o o ()-{) 18 OPP 7 197 105 .533 71227 4 
o-o o-o o 0-0 12 
Eason 7 1 o-o o-o o o-o 6 Taylor 4 1 o-o o-o o 0-0 6 Ward 6 17 257 15.1 0 26 Bauerlein 7 1 0-0 Q-1 0 o-o 6 Brown 6 16 290 18.1 2 49 Williams 6 1 0-0 o-o o 0-0 6 Miller 5 10 160 16.0 0 39 
4 0 o-o 1-1 0 o-o 2 H. Francisco 6 2 RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 
Cusack Pinkett 7 9 68 7.6 0 22 Andrysiak 5 0 o-o Q-1 0 o-o 0 Eason 7 8 128 16.0 1 33 
----------------~--Green 5 8 104 13.0 0 29 
NO 7 20 15-17 1-3 0 12-17173 Rehder 7 8 104 13.0 28
0 OPP 71312-12 1-1 0 8-15116 Stams 7 8 63 7.9 0 25 
Williams  6  4  50  12.5  1  19  
Heck  3  2  35  17.5  0  23  
Cusack  4  2  33  16.5  0  19  
H. Francisco  6  5  5.0  0  5  
Monahan  6  -2  ·2.0  0  0  

NOTRE DAME 7 94 1295 13.8 4 49 OPPONENTS 7 1051227 11.7 4 37 
DEFENSE TMT\.-YDS PBU FA BK 
Furjanic 99 2-7 3 0 0 Lawrence 62 2-7 2 4 0 Kovaleski 61 1-6 1 0 0 Dorsey 56 10-46 0 1 0 Ballage 39 1-3 1 1 0 Wilson 38 3-6 6 1 0 Figaro 37 2-5 0 0 0 Banks 34 2-9 0 0 0 Weissenholer 32 ()-{) 0 1 0 Kleine 25 5-23 0 0 0 Spence 24 ()-{) 5 2 0 Larkin 23 1-2 1 0 0 Haywood 23 1-3 3 0 0 Kunz 22 3-17 0 0 0 DiBernardo 15 ()-{) 0 , 0 G. Dingens 15 1-15 0 0 0 Kiernan 15 1·1 0 0 0 Wells 14 o-o 1 0 1 Butler 13 o-o 0 0 0 M. Dingens 10 0-0 1 1 0 Pritchett 6 o-o 0 0 0 Gordon 4 0-0 0 0 0 Kvochak 4 ()-{) 0 0 0 McCabe 3 o-o 0 0 0 Southall 3 0-0 0 0 0 Cusack 1 o-o 0 0 0 Streeter 1 o-o 0 0 0 Cooney 1 o-o 0 0 0 Robb 1 0·0 0 0 0 Martz 1 0-0 0 0 0 
NOTRE DAME 682 35-150 24 12 

Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 
Provides good pass coverage 

Haywood uses size and speed to advantage. 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
Sport.e W'rlter 
T 
he llelcn~>n c il;•. 'Jielll ofa football team is a unit which relies on players who may not dominate in size but must try to dominate in speed. These players are responsible for covering speedy receivers and backing up the front people on the run. 
Senior Mike Haywood, playing with good size for a ddensive back, benefits the Irish as a solid weakside cornerback. lleavily endowed with the commodity of speed, Haywood provides good coverage and strength against the run. 
A Houston, Texas, native, Haywood originally intended to play football in the South as he was re<:rulted by major schools within his stale and elsewhere in the Southwest Con­

"/ think that I have done a pretty good job at becoming known because people go around calling me Jack Tatum . .." 
ference. Notre Dame. however, was the only northern school, outside of Princeton, to recruit him. 
"Basically, I was influenced by my parents,'' rn·alls the or;. I I, I H 1-poun<.l Haywood. "I was going to decide to go to the University of Houston. But, through the influence of my parents, I realized that I was going for all ofthe wrong reasons. I was just going to be close to home. bet·ause they hall a good football program, and, basically, I wasn't going there for the academics. 
"I had been raised on academic excellence all
... 
1010 my life and brought up in Catholic schools all of my life. My parents felt that Notre Dame would he the place for academics first, but 
~cidcd to manage as a freshman just for something 
10. But there are rewards and I've made some con­~ that will help me later." 
' work of the managers often goes unnoticed by ly of the students, but the coaches appreciate their 'k. 
e managers set up practice, handle film exchanges, ck players and do all the little things to make things >rnoothly,'' said Faust. "This allows the coaches to 11d all our time evaluating the opponent and getting Jy for the game. They are outstanding, and are the ;t efficient student organization I've ever been as­ated with. The coaches not only appreciate the job 
do, but we really respect them." 
many students know how much preparation is in getting ready for the week's game, but any er or coach will tell you that their job is made easier 
use of the efforts of the student managers. 
PUNTING  G NO YDS AVO  LG  
Sorensen  7  36 1525 42.3  57  
VonWyl  1  13 13.0  13  
NOTREOAME  7  37 1538 41.6  57  

OPPONENTS 7 31 1147 37.0 59 
Time Capsule 

PUNT RET NO YOS AVO TO LG 
by Marty Burns 

Wilson 12 64 7.0 0 12 Cusack 4 29 7.2 0 19 
NOTREOAME 16 113 7.1 0 19 OPPONENTS 20 102 5.1 0 15 
A 
ppearances can be deceiving.Just ask the 1977 Notre Dame foot­ball team. 
Ranked No. 3 in the nation after a season-opening conquest of Pit­tsburgh, it looked like an easy win for the Irish the next week at 
KICKOFF RET NO YOS AVO TO LG 
Brown 8 231 28.9 1 93 
Mississippi. If the Rebels did not have enough weapons to challenge
Miller 3 82" 27.3 0 30 
Head Coach Dan Devine's troops, It appeared that the Irish at least
H. Francisco 2 34 17.0 0 18 Jefferson 1 5 5.0 0 5 
would get a pleasant road trip in the sunny South before facing the 
Monahan 1 0 0.0 0 0 
real powers looming on the schedule. 
Rehder . 1 0 0.0 0 0 
But the Irish should have looked again. When they took the field of
NOTREOAME 16 352 22.0 1 93 OPPONENTS 10 197 19.7 0 49 
Mississippi Memorial Stadium, they discovered that their day at the beach had become, instead, a day in the heat. Humid, with a tern­perature of 88 degrees, the weather bothered Notre Dame a bit 
INTRET NO YOS AVO TO LG 
more than the inhospitable Southern crowd which shouted such epithets as, "Go to hell, Notre Dame."
Ball age 2 35 17.5 0 35 Haywood 2 ~5 12.5 0 25 Spence 13 13.0 0 13 
The Irish quickly realized they already were in hell as the Rebel 
Wilson 0 0.0 0 0 
offense turned out be a bit more imaginative ttian the fans, keying the 
Lawrence 0 0.0 0 0 
horne team to a 20-I 3 upset win. After Notre Dame's Dave Reeve 
kicked his second fourth-quarter field goal to make it 13-I 0 in favor
NOTREOAME 7 73 10.4 0 35 
OPPONENTS 8 90 11.2 1 30 
also to play top-quality football at the same time." 
As a high school athlete, Haywood lettered in football, basketball, baseball and track. In each of these sports, he earned all-area honors and had the potential to go on and play them in the collegiate ranks. 
At> a high school football player, Haywood was given the starting nod in his sophomore year_ For his St. Thomas team, he was used on both sides of the ball, playing in both the defensive backfield and as a receiver. In his senior year of high school, he caught 18 passes for two touchdowns, rushed for 205 yards and three touchdowns and intercepted four passes with one being brought back for a touchdown. 
Coming out of high school, he was recruited as both a receiver and as a defensive back. But he soon moved to his present position for good after an injury sidelined him for the 
1983 season. 
"Notre Dame recruited me as a defensive back," explains Haywood. "In the first couple of days that we were here, I was a defensive back. But after we ran our 40s and I ran a 4:41 ( 40-yard dash), I was moved to wide receiver because they needed help at wide receiver. 
"I prefer defense because the type of offense that we run is basically run-oriented. "I really don't care to go downfield and block all ofthe time. IfI was going to go downfield and block, Iwould rather be on defense and be able to hit 
Furjanic 
continuedfrom page I 
and I have a big family that is able to come up to every game here." 
Furjanic earned a letter his freshman season, mainly because of his play on the special teams. He did start against Air Force that year, however, while backing up at the weakside linebacker slot the rest of the year. After the season, he was named a first-team pick on the freshman all-America team of Football News. 
But it was in his sophomore year that Furjanic really distinguished himself. He was the team's top season tackler with 142 stops, more than twice the number of any other player on the Irish squad. He led the team in fumbles caused with three, and continually made big plays throughout the season. 
He finished off the outstanding campaign by being voted Notre Dame's defensive MVP in the liberty Bowl win over Boston College. But despite all this, Furjanic was not overjoyed. 
"I wasn't real pleased with the year," he says. "I had some bad games. It was a learning ex-

Appearance of Ole Miss deceives '77 Irish 
~J

,_, 
"'\ ~· 
MikeHaywood 

somebody -instead of receiving the pain, in­flicting the pain." 
As a freshman, Haywood started in five games for the Irish as a flanker. In his rookie year, he logged over 116 minutes of playing time and caught 13 passes for 128 yards, including five against Air Force and four against Southern Cal. In that year, he wound up fourth in recep­
perience. Mike Kovaleski was a freshman and I was a sophomore and we learned a lot. But it's paying off now. What it comes down to is that we now know how to react to what each other is doing. 
"Going into my junior year I was really looking forward to things, but things didn't go as I planned." 
In the fourth game of that season against Mis­souri, Furjanic injured ligaments in his knee, something that would keep him out until the final two regular season games_ He found it hard to be on the sidelines as the Irish faltered. 
"That was really hard to not play," he recalls, "because during that stretch I was out we lost three games. Every time we lost it really ate me up inside because I felt that I could have helped in the cause, and all I could do was sit on the sidelines." 
As f6r this year, Furjanic has no complaints now that the team has turned its season around. 
"I'm pleased. Things have been going really well and we've been improving every week. We've been winning, and our attitude has 
of the Irish, it appeared Notre Dame had escaped disaster. This, of course,was a grand illusion. 
Devine's team had been burned all day by the passing ofRebel quar­terback Bobby Garner, Still, Notre Dame thought it was seeing a completely different player leading Ole Miss down the field so easily after Reeve's go-ahead score_ Actually, the Irish were seeing a dif­ferent player -substitute quarterback Tim Ellis. 
Notre Dame soon wished that this, too, could have been an illusion as Ellis marched the Rebels 80 yards for the winning touchdown. On the scoring play, a 10-yard pass to fullback James Storey, It looked like Irish Heisman Trophy candidate Ross Browner had batted the ball safely out of the path of the intended receiver. Well, just call it the luck ofthe, er, Rebels, as Storey somehow caught it for the touch­down. 
Ellis later directed Ole Miss to a field goal which forged the final score and sealed the victory for the South. 
After the game, Devine vowed to listeners that the Irish would rise again. Many, ofcourse, thought this was nonsense for they had seen the debacle with their own eyes. 
But appearances can be deceiving. A little-known player named Joe Montana, who many saw as nothing more than a practice player, would take over the team soon thereafter. Indeed,what players, coaches and 48,200 fans in attendance saw on that balmy day was the future 1977 National Champions_ 
tions and yards gained, in addition to securing the starting flanker spot for the 1983 cam­paign. 
Haywood was moved back to the defensive side of the ball in 1984, however, after he missed the 1983 season with a thigh Injury. In the '84 campaign, he played in every game and started the last five after teammate Troy Wil­son went down with a severe thigh bruise. He logged over 148 minutes, made 23 tackles, had two interceptions and blocked two punts. 
Splitting time with junior Marv Spence at the weakslde corner this year, Haywood has started half of the games for the Irish_ Playing in all of the games, he is credited with 23 tackles, including 10 solos, a sack and a tackle for loss. He also is tied on the team with Pat Ballage for intercepted passes with two. 
"This year my goals were just to go out and have four or five interceptions," Haywood says, "and really become one of the 'known' corners in the country_ I think that I have done a pretty good job at becoming known because people go around calling me Jack Tatum, but I don't know why because everything I do is legal." 
Because he missed the 1983 season, Haywood will return next year as an MBA student for a fifth year of eligibility. The American studies major, who concentrates in government and communications, will go to the Notre Dame Business School for his MBA and then on to law school. 
changed dramatically," Furjanic says. "It's a more positive attitude. We don't go out there anymore saying, 'We'd better not lose.' We stress winning. 
''After the Purdue game, we realized we'd bet­ter get our act together_ It seemed like we were blowing the whole season. A few of us got together and decided we were going to turn it around. Since then, I think we've played very well. Even though we lost against Air Force, it was kind ofa fluke thing.'' 
And although he has experienced four rather tough years in an Irish uniform, Furjanic remains happy with his choice to come to Notre Dame. 
"I'm really happf I came here," he says. "I was skeptical at first because I wasn't sure I was going to fit in. Coach Kelly (inside linebacker coach) is a great coach. I've learned a lot from him. He's fair and tells it like it is -even if it hurts sometimes. I've really enjoyed my years here." 
But his football years here are far from over. And with Tony Furjanlc playing the way he can at linebacker, the Irish defense should continue to impress. 
-
-
-

-
-
I 
• 
l 
-
.­
Irish Extra -page 4 Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 

W 
By TRISH SULLIVAN TDs) and senior flanker Jamie Holder ( 16 of with the noseguard replacing one ofthe three sophomore has picked up 16 receptions for · Sports Writer 215, 2 TDs). Ambrose emerged as a top SEC inside linebackers. 290 yards this season, providing Irish fans receiver when he finished last season with a with some thrilling moments in the process. ho will lead the charges?That's the ques­35.2 yard average on six receptions. Just how Notre Dame's offense vs. Mississippi's Classmate Reggie Ward also has been a key tion on everyone's mind as Mississippi productive the receiving corps can be with a defense: offensive player at the split end slot. Ward has and Notre Dame prepare to clash for the rookie thrower at the helm is questionable, been the most targeted Irish receiver, nabbing second time in the history ofthe two schools. though. Just who will be taking the snaps from the 1 7 passes and averaging I 5 yards a reception. While the Irish have to make a choice bet­Notre Dame center won't be revealed until ween two talented quarterbacks, the Rebels It's time now for the Ole Miss backfield to game time on Saturday, according to Faust. Al­A pleasant surprise at the flanker position has will be sifting through the rank and file to prove its worth. The Rebel running game has though sophomore Terry Andrysiak carried been freshman Mark Green. And, although he replace their starting signal caller. been virtually nonexistent thus far, account­the Irish to victory last weekend, coming off has yet to earn a starting spot, Green has seen 
ing for an average ofonly 78 yards a game. The the bench to complete II passes for 195 considerable playing time as a rookie and has Coach Billy Brewer and his Ole Miss squad runners are led by senior tailback Nathan yards, Faust doesn't believe junior Steve five receptions for 1 04 yards on the season. stand 3-4-1 and must play the final three Woosley (79 for 305, 2 TDs), who also was Beuerlein has lost his starting job. Beuerlein games on the road. The Rebels are looking to the leading receiver in 1984 with 36 recep­has been plagued by shoulder troubles since The increasing success ofthe Irish offense has rebound from a 14-0 homefield loss to l.SU last tions for 248 yards. to do with the continual improvement of the
bruising his throw­
weekend and finish the season as strong as Woosley's name is a offensive line. The front has been led by guard
ing shoulder against
they did last year. Despite Mississippi's familiar one in the Tim Scannell and tackle Mike Perrino, who are
USC and practiced
relative lack ofsuccess this season, Irish coach football ranks since largely responsible for Notre Dame's 314 rus­
only minimally prior
Gerry Faust refuses to underestimate the his brother George hing yards against Navy -the most by the Irish
to the Navy contest. 
talent of the Rebels. plays for the In­since the 1983 Colorado game. Additional dianapolis Colts of blocking chores are taken on by senior guard
Each quarterback of­
"The times they have given up a lot ofpoints the NFL. Shawn Heffern and senior tackle Tom·
fers a different style, 
have been more a case of turnovers," Faust Doerger. The snapping responsibilities are
with Andrysiak
said. "I'm really impressed with their defense; Assisting W onsley in handled by senior Ron Plantz. 
working out of a 
they're quick and they like to blitz. This is a big the running chores roll-out attack while 
game for Ole Miss, so it better be a big game has been fullback The Rebel defense hasn't had too much luck
Beuerlein uses a
for us." Joe Mickles. The controlling the opposition's running game, al­
pocket passing ap­
senior is second on lowing 21 0 yards per contest. Brewer and his
proach. Each has 
the team in rushing staff had the task of rebuilding the defense
Mississippi's offense vs. Notre Dame's been successful in 
(34 for 155, 2 TDs) after losing the entire secondary and getting
defense: his own right, with 
and is the only other only five starters back on the line. Junior
Beuerlein complet­
The Mississippi offense relies heavily on its back to gain over ing 75 passes for 991 passsing attack, but is in a bit of a bind right 100 yards this 
yards and two now because of an injury to standout quarter­season. 
touchdowns and 
back Kent Austin. At the start ofthe 1985 cam­Andrysiak totaling "This is a· big game for Ole paign, Austin was atop some SEC offensive The Mississippi 
19 completions for Miss. so it better be a big game
statistic charts, holding the fifth slot in pass front line not only 304 yards and two 
completions, seventh in passing yards and has experience to for us.,.
touchdowns. 12th in total offense. offer, but also good size with a 6-2, 258­
Tailback Allen It appeared the record-setting senior was on pound average. Pinkett continues to Gerry Faus. his way to yet another successful year ( 89 of Center Nubin Ross 
roll along, gaining a 
14 7 for 1,116 yards) when he was forced to sit ( 6-2, 258) is the season-high 161 
out the Auburn and Georgia games with knee only junior on the Fuzzy Huddleston, Mississippi's top returning
yards against Navy.
problems. He returned to action against l.SU offensive line. He is tackler, and sophomore Jeff Herrod lead the only to suffer additional ligament and car­flanked on the right by senior guard Tony The senior scampered for three touchdowns Rebels in the linebacking positions. tilage damage to his left knee and will be Rayburn (6-2, 250) and on he left by senior last weekend, with his longest gain of the day watching this week's contest from the Bobby Clark (6-2, 267). The tackle spots are coming on a 43-yard romp that set up an Irish "Defensively, I thought Ole Miss played very sideline. filled by seniors Eric Sheenan ( 6-4, 255) and . score. well aginst l.SU," said Faust. "They didn't give 
Ross Genovese ( 6-3, 261 ). up a first down for almost 25 minutes in the Austin's replacement most likely will be fresh­The Notre Dame running game also has been second half, and they kept ( LSU quarterback) man Mark Young. Young has only four The Irish defense continues to play with in­bolstered by the play of sophomore fullback Jeff Wickersham and ( LSU back) Dalton Hil­quarters of experience under his belt and tensity despite the loss of three key in­Frank Starns (32 for 142, 3 TDs) and junior lard under control. That's saying something stands 12 of 29 for 122 yards on the year. But dividuals who were expected to comprise the backup tailback Hiawatha Francisco ( 32 for against a team the caliber of l.SU." 
Brewer says the underclassman plays with a Irish line this year-junior Mike Griffin, senior 1 58, 2 TDs ), each ofwhom scored in the Navy lot of confidence and has the respect of his Greg Dingens and junior Wally Kleine. Notre contest. It's a clash of the North and South when the teammates. Dame has been making use of a couple dif­two teams take to the field. For Notre Dame it ferent defenses, both the even front with two Notre Dame's corps of receivers is headed by will be a prelude to a tough final three games The top targets for the Rebels will be sop­down linemen, two outside li~ebackers and flanker Tim Brown, who snared five passes for of the season, while Ole Miss is looking for it homore split endJ.R Ambrose (33 for 607, 4 three inside linebackers, and the odd front 1 I 1 yards and one touchdown last week. The to be a turning point in its season. 


PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports editor and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the 







JeffBiumb PhiiWoH Kelly Portol... UlrryBurke Chuck Freeby Mary DIStllnl...o Jeff Ker1'18gla
spread. In other words, it isn't 
Sports Editor Sports Writer SMC Sports Editor Asst. Sports Editor Sports Writer Guest Celebrity Random Student 
enough to pick the winner of a given 
43-3~2 38-44-2 3&-4&-2 3~7-2 33-4~2 42--41)-2 3&-4&-2 
game. The person must pick the 
.524 .464 .440 .429 .405 .512 winner and give the underdog (last week: 8-6-0) (last week: 7-7-0) (last week: 9-5-0) (last week: 5-9-0) (last week: 7-7-Q) (last week: 7-7-0) (last week: 6-8-0) points. Home team is in CAPS. 
Pittsburgh over TEMPLE by 2 Panthers Owls Panthers Panthers Panthers Owls Owls WEST VIRGINIA over Rutgers by 8 Mountaineers Knights Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers MICHIGAN over Purdue by 14 Wolverines Wolverines Boilermakers Boilermakers Wolverines Boilermakers Wolverines Michigan State over INDIANA by 6 Spartans Hoosiers Spartans Spartans Hoosiers Spartans Hoosiers Florida over Georgia by 6 (at]'ville) Bulldogs Bulldogs Gators Gators Gators Gators Gators Syracuse over NAVY by 5 Orangemen Midshipmen Orangemen Orangemen Orangemen Midshipmen Orangemen Penn State over CINCINNATl by 12.5 Bearcats Uons Uons Uons Bearcats Uons Uons IOWA over lllinois by 7 Hawkeyes llllni Hawk eyes Illini Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes AIR FORCE over Army by 11 Falcons Falcons Cadets Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Miami (Fla.) over MARYLAND by 2.5 Terrapins Terrapins Terrapins Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes ARKANSAS over Baylor by 3 Bears Bears Bears Bears Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks LOUISIANA STATE over Alabama by 1 Tigers Tide Tigers Tide Tigers Tigers Tide MINNESOTA over Wisconsin by 11 Badgers Gophers Badgers Badgers Badgers Gophers Badgers NOTRE DAME over Mississippi by 17 Rebels Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 

..__ 

Happenings-page 3 Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 
Ballet stars and the KGB 
I 
Auoclatcd Prcll8 The two dancers are transported to Leningrad, where each becomes intrigued n this era ofhigh concept films !rom with the other's style. Hines realizes the error Hollywood, "White Nights" offers this nifty of his defection, and joins the ballet star in a tale: Mikhail Baryshnikov, a Soviet ballet star plot to escape. who defects to the West, finds himself More a drama with dances than a musical, imprisoned in his native land when the jet "White Nights" places a heavy responsibility he's on crashes In Siberia. Gregory Hines, an on the two stars' acting. Baryshnikov has the American who defects to the Soviet Union, is easier task, reflecting his real-life distaste for assigned to help convince Baryshnikov to the Soviet regime's repression of artists. resume his career there. Hines must deal with a less-defined charac· 
The plot is a long stretch, but it succeeds ter; the reasons for his defection during the most of the way, largely because of the Vietnam War remain unclear. Both have romantic conflicts: Baryshnikov with the ballerina (Helen Mirrin) he left · behind; Hines with a wife torn between love
Movie review~ 
for her husband and her country.
White Nights 
Perhaps because Hackford did not want "White Nights" to seem like a musical, the
* * ') 
(out of four) 

dances have been subordinated. Fans of 
Baryshnikov and Hines may be disappointed, soaring talents of the two stars and the but they can savor those moments when the sure-handed direction by Taylor Hackford two stars perform their specialties. And when ("An Officer and a Gentleman," "Against All the pair combines in a dazzling duet ofballet Odds"). and jazz, viewers are likely to cheer. 
"White Nights" refers to the endless days A natural-born actor, Baryshnikov is totally of northern Russia, where most of the action convincing in a role paralleling his own takes place. Baryshnlkov, flying between history. Impressive in "The Cotton Club," appearances in London and Tokyo, survives Hines again displays emotional depth. Rossel· the crash and Is quickly claimed by the KGB lini, a haunting replica of the young Ingrid 
GERTIE WIMMER 

as a propaganda prize. KBG agentJerzy Bergman, seems capable offoUowing her 
features copy editor 

Skollmowski enlists Hines, who has fallen out mother's profession. The always reliable of favor and is touring the Siberian provinces Geraldine Page, however, is wasted in the 
F 
our women in a trailer camp. What does with his Soviet wife, Isabella Rossellini. role ofBaryshnikov's manager. 
this mean? 
It means that Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre scored another success yesterday evening with their performance of"Between Daylight and Boonville." 
Theater 
Between Daylight and Boonville 


"Between Daylight and Boonvill~" focuses on the families ofcoal miri'ers in soltthern Indiana. Though full ofhumor, thJ piece is a serious and compassionate look at the struggles offour women whose lives are bound up with the events at the mines and the men who work them. 
The main cast, consisting mainly ofsop­homore students with one senior, puts on a better-than-average show with this piece by



Movies The Scoop 
•The Student Activities Board hosts the movie "Ghostbusters" Friday and Saturday night in the Engineering Auditorium. Starring Bill Murry, Dan 

Mass /Music
Aykroyd, Harold Ramis and Rick Moranis, this comedy is about a group of friends 
I~who start a business serving ghost· plagued customers. In the course oftheir •Sunday the South Bend Symphony job, they get slimed, encounter a giant The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Orchestra, conducted by Kenneth Kies· marshmellow-man, and save a possessed Church this weekend will be: ler, will perform at 4 p.m. in O'Laughlin woman. Tickets for the 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Auditorium at Saint Mary's. shows are S1.SO. 
•This weekend the Holiday Star Theater 
FatherJoseph Walter at 5 p.m. 

in Merrillville hosts Wayne Newton with (Saturday night vigil). 
special guest Freddie Roman. Friday and•The movie "Bob Le Flambeur" can Father George Wiskirchen at 9 a.m. 
Saturday nights' shows begin at 7 andbe seen Friday in the Annenberg Father Niels Rasmussen at 10:30 a.m. 
10:30 p.m. and Sunday's performancesAuditorium at 7:30 and 9:30p.m. Directed Father Robert Kennedy at 12:15 p.m. 
begin at 6 and 9:30p.m. Tickets areby Jean-Pierre Melville, the French direc­U7.95. 
tor who greatly influenced the "new 
wave" trend, this 19S5 film presents a 
gentleman gambler looking for one last 
flamboyant score . the crime of the cen­
tury. Tickets for this comedy are $3. 
IAssortedrJ 
•Friday night is the Sock Hop for United Way at the ACC concourse deck. The dance Is from~ p.m. to 12:30 a.m., and all classes are welcome. A donation of S2 is required. See story on page 1 of Happenings. 




Indiana playwright Matt Williams. Saint 
Mary's student Uz Murphy plays the part of 
Carla, the discontented wife ofa coon-dog· 
breeding coal miner, while senior Denise M. 
Blank plays her pregnant best friend and 
neighbor, Marlene. Although the miners 
never make an appearance on stage, the male 
factor is more than amply represented by TJ. 
Miles, also a sophomore. 
The best performance ofthe evening, however, is given by Anne Marie Borgman, who plays Lorette, an older neighbor with good taste in movies and lousy taste In outerwear. The chiefantagonist Is played by Meghan Farley as the morally lax Wanda. 
The play is directed by Saint Mary's theatre professorJulie Jensen, a seasoned actress and respected playwright. The last play she both wrote and directed for the college theatre group was "Kitchen Gothic" in the fall of 1983. jensen is always immersed in her craft, as she teaches both acting and script writing classes at Saint Mary's. 
Sophomore Rachel Durkin stage manages the play, which can be seen at 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday in the Uttle Theatre at Saint Mary's College. Tickets are $2 and can be purchased at the door. ­



jrheater~~~ 
•The Casaday Repertory Ensemble wlll present the plays "Now Uke a Dream" followed by "Three Women: An In­diana Medley" Friday and Saturday night at 7 p.m. and Sunday at I :30 p.m. at the Northern Historical Society Museum. "Now Like A Dream," set InJan. 1885, tells offormer Vice President and Speaker of the House Schuyler Colfax through the reminiscences ofhis wife, Ellen Wade Colhlx. "Three Women: An Indiana Med­ley," braids together the lives ofEmma Barrot Malloy, Flora Stanfield and Ottilie Poehlman Miller through a medley of stories told by the women themselves. Tickets are $4. 
Art ~I 
•Opening Sunday in the Warner Gallery of the South Bend Art Center is the ex­hibit"Accummulations: Harold Z1sla Retrospective". The exhibit will include 200 prints, drawings and paintings from 
-
55 local collections as well as the artist's own collection. Zisla, first chairman of the fine arts department at Indiana University 
at South Bend and former director of the Art Center, has constantly sought new ways to depict the world around himself. The exhibit features his formal experi· ments in cubism, abstraction, realism and expressionism. The exhibit opens at 12 p.m. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Happenings-page 4 Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 


-
Late-night customers find haven at Shirley's 
DAVE DVORAK 
.fwllu~ writer 

F 
at Shirley's is not a bar, a tavern or a discotheque. It is an all-night diner. So what's it doing in the Bar Beat? 
Well, just ask any ofthe hundreds of 
students who have experienced Fat Shirley's 
late-night cuisine. They'll tell you this joint is 
an absolute "must" after a night at the bars. 
They'll rave about the food, the atmosphere 
~ The Bar Beat ~ (~ Fat Shirley's 
~ ****!outotlourJ 
and, ofcourse, the woman who has made this 
place the most celebrated greasy spoon in 
the Michiana area. 

Open 24 hours, seven days a week, Fat Shirley's is the classic great American truck stop, an endangered species in this era offast food. The long counter and squeaky swivel stools, the antique cash register and the old-fashioned gas grill will lead you to believe that you're eating breakfast in the 195.0s. 
The main attraction ofthe diner is cer­
tainly the legendary Shirley. Contrary to 
popular opinion, Shirley does not own the 
place -she is merely the night manager, on 
duty every night from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. Any 
attempt to describe her would prove grossly 
inadequate. Believe me, you'll know her 
when you see her. 

To watch Shirley at work is a wonderful experience. The woman obviously takes great pride in what she does. Every egg is cracked with the confidence ofan expert; every hotcake is flipped with gentle finesse. As she labors over the tiny grill with quiet intensity, you get the distinct impression that she knows what she's doing. 
The mutilated piece ofpaper that is the menu offers a good variety offood at very affordable prices, which Shirley claims have not been raised in five years. In the same breath, though, she admits that a price hike is currently being considered. 
After a long night at the bars, a person's body often cannot resolve the "breakfast or dinner?" dilemma. Shirley's has both meals. The most popular late-night choice is the Trucker's Special-two eggs, Shirley's famous American fries and toast with bacon, ham or sausage -all for $2.30. Or perhaps you'll want to try the unlikely hamburger and macaroni combination for just $1.25. Both choices are excellent, especially ifyou've been drinking. 
Because all hot meals are cooked by Shirley on a two-by-three foot grill, service may be slow on crowded weekend nights. A good way to pass time is to pop a quarter into the jukebox against the wall. You'll choose from a variety ofcountry knee-slappin' favorites, like "Tequila Sheila," "Hillbilly Girl with the Blues" and "IfDrinking Don't Kill Me Her Memory Will." 
You might even want to strike up a con­versation with Shirley while she's cooking. Though she's a woman offew words, a polite approach usually is pretty successful in getting her to talk. Several encounters with obnoxious students, however, have prompted the posting ofa sign: "Only four students allowed in the diner at one time." 
It pays ~o be friendly to Shirley. Realize that she probably won't be warm and receptive back to you; she's not the type. But she just may give you an extra-large serving ofAmerican fries. 
Fat Shirley's is located on Mishawaka and Twyckenham, about a half mile east ofEddy. Look for a big neon sign that says "24 Hrs. 
Coffee Shop." 


m....~iel,~
~ant 


The Best in Aged Steaks 

120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 

for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00 P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 
FILET OF SOLE OSCAR 
Filet of Sole Topped with Seawest Alaskan King Crab Meat, Asparagus Spears Topped with Bernaise Sauce 
$8.95 
121 s. 111111, South Bend Reservations Appreciated 
Phone(219)234-9000 


A cook tends the grill at Fat Shirley's, a diner with the essence ofAmericana. 
TWO DINNERS 
FOR 51295 

Choose from Prrme Rrb. Chrcken lmperral. Frred Shrrmp, or Orange Roughy. A gourmet delrght PLUS our famous salad buffet and 
your chorce of baked potato. rrce 
prlaf. or hot fresh vegetable. 
NE\X/1 NE\X/1 NE\X/1 
Peel & Eat Shrimp by the bucket S3.75 a quarter pound 
(J~ ,Qt--J.;.•• 

~-------,-o-1-fax---M--th_e__


... ReservMions AppreciMed-234-4477 
NOTRE DAME 
presents: 


JOSEPH HOLMES DANCE THEATRE 
Tickets $8 (reserved seating) available at Century Center; Roc Du Lac Records, Lafortune Student Center and at the door. 
-

VieWP-Oint 
Pres~s~u~re_s_o~f~t~h-e~f~u7 


weigh greatly on seniors 
Relaxation, a pile of books that never get 1.1s are the same people we were three years 
opened, back with the family again, late night ago. We have all contributed to each other's television, shopping with mom, sharing growth, by giving and receiving from each ot­pictures of the latest dance, raking leaves, her. throwing brothers and sisters into them, hot I have experienced more caring for and by 
apple: cider, bon-fires, creating Halloween others on these campuses, than I have in my costumes, dreaming about catching up on let­entire life. Our present community is someth· ter!' are a few ofthe visions associated with fall lng we often take for granted. In spending the break. But not this year; not If you're a senior. last semester at American University in Was­Sure, it all seemed peachy-keen for the first 24 hington D.C., I realized the atmosphere at hours; until mom and dad cracked. What was Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is definitely disguised as a delicious family meal, turns in to unique. I was shocked when people did not a disaster. smile and greet strangers. I am not trying to say it is a jungle out there, but it is different. 
jeanne Grammens People are not as supportive or concerned 
with our daily problems as they are here. The 
atmosphere on these campuses is conducive 

ask not to Christianity. 
As we prepare to live in the world outside of 

Looking back, it did seem pretty suspicious this community, we should be aware of how as a little sister offered to clean up and brot­easy it will be to forget the ways we have hers all disappeared upstairs to do homework. learned here. At the tlme, my attention was completely The process is already beginning. I can see focused on my current calorie intake, it in some people's eyes. When it comes to homemade dutch-apple pie. Things got aw­survival, which in our terms is securing a job, fully quiet. With the clearing of dad's throat, we feel threatened by each other. We are be­the dream world shattered. "So what are you coming rivals for the imagined limited num­going to do with your life in six months?" Sud­ber of jobs. We cannot help but feel denly something similiar to reality came uncomfortable when someone else is moving crashing in. Senior bar, cocktail parties, faster in "the process" of securing a future. It dances, dunes, Naugles, tailgaters, late-night takes a mature Christian person to be truly walks to the grotto, cozy evenings chatting happy for someone else who reaches a goal with friends, reflective hours spent alone in that we are told we should be reaching. thought, all start to fade out ofthe picture. For As each day brings us closer to the end of those of you who opted for the Bahamas, in­our undergraduate education, as anxiety and stead of home, your day is coming. Wait until pressure grow deeper and darker, values and Thanksgiving. beliefs may slowly take the back seat In this 
The verbalization of such a question is a time where deep faith is necessary, it is definite downer. II spells pressure with a capi­paramount that seniors here do not sacrifice tal "P." We have been asked about our life OC· the loving, caring Christianity we have found <.·upation ever since we knew what firemen at these institutions for the security of"fitting and nurses were. As each day passes however, in and being a financial success" out in the real the implications of this question have gotten world. more and more uncomfortable for many It may feel relievingly secure to say we have seniors. The answer can no longer be a fantasy a second interview with a company which has or a "someday, I want to be" phrase. entry level salaries of 530,000 a year, but this 
Our parents, and the rest of the world, ex­prestige does not mean a thing ifthe Christian pect something from us, and rightly so. Most education is forgotten. of our parents have made sacrifices in order Before I get carried away, I feel I must stress that we acquire this special education. As I am not ragging on business people, or on beautiful as these sacrifices are, they con­high-level, high-prestige jobs. We are not all tnnue to add to the boiling pot ofpressure wit­called to be social workers, or work with the hin most seniors. Actions must be taken and mentally retarded. These jobs take gifts just as decisions must be made. accounting or managing does. As alumnae of 
this University or College, we can bring ourWhile the future holds the excitement of Christian actions and beliefs into any setting: a endless possibilities, there is a definite terror law firm or a classroom, a national bank or ain the unknown. In reaction to this fear, many center for battered and abused children, astudents try to make the future extremely television station or an advertising agency. AI·predictable. We draw up our resumes listing though it may not be extremely popular orour accomplishments. Sometimes, we tend to advantageous in modern terms, we must bringover-exaggerate our small accomplishments the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's support sys­or give credit to ourselves where credit is not tem into the world we are about to step into.
due. Some will advise us to use mild white lies. 
We cannot measure these qualities with theBut it's OK because it will bring us closer to same yard stick of material wealth andensuring our future. right? 

prestige. We can not measure apples and 

We go through the interview process, oranges. 
sometimes fighting our fellow classmates in In the rush, panic and frustration ofthe "job 
order to get one of those limited interviews hunt," I really believe it Is necessary to main­
with the prestigious companies. We then at­tain a Christian motivation. We do not have to 
tend receptions and talk to people we do not push and shove and knock each other down. 
really know, but who are important to us be­We do not have to feel threatened because 
cause they might be the necessary link to a Tom, Dick or Mary got a second interview 
job. with the best company in the world. 
Although it may seem sort ofsuperficial, it is Everyone has talents, and if we search hard 
a necessary step to ensure the future. This be­enough, and honestly enough, we willfind the 
havior does not apply to specifically business job that will allow us to use our potential. 
majors. Any undergraduate searching for a Most ofus want to give our best, and someone 
job, from chemical engineers to elementary out there wants to hire us to do our best. Let's 
school teachers, will face the reality of the not start a mode of life, the cut throat, un­
"knock-em-down" job market. In this job­Christian, that does exist "out there." Let's not 
search process some negative things are hap­start a bad habit out of fear of the unknown 
pening. I fear that these "necessary processes" future. 
may be just the beginning for us as we begin 
the struggle for survival in the "real world." jeanne Grammens is a senior government 
We have spent the last four years working and communications major at Saint Mary's 
hard, playing hard and growing hard. Few of and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 -page 11 

The-=Observer 
P 0. Box 0, Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the polic1es of the adm1n1strat1on of 811her•nst1tut1on. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible. Uns1gned editonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes. leners and the lrlSide Column present the v1ews of tha~r authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through leners, IS encouraged. 
Recently, there has been a big debate raging over U.S. support for the white South African government. The South African government has been accused ofbeing one ofthe most im­moral governments existing today. 
Rich Coglianese guest column 
This charge has been made against South Africa because of its system of apartheid. Al­though a very large majority of Americans agree that apartheid in morally unacceptable, it is also true that we cannot abandon a friend as important as South Africa over the issue of apartheid. South Africa is a good ally as well as a strategic partner on which we must not turn our back. 
Many Congressional leaders have been cal­
ling for economic sanctions against South 
Africa. These sanctions range from mild cur­
tailing ofbank loans to full divestment. We can 
see plainly that any kind of economic action 
against South Africa cannot be justified. 
We continue to trade with the Soviet Union while they deny human and civil rights to their citizens. We just dismiss the Soviet Union as a cruel regime that we must deal with in order to ensure peace In the world. 
This regime, however, is responsible for murdering millions upon millions of its own citizens. We still trade with the People's Republic ofChina even though they practice a policy of one child per family and encourage women who are pregnant with a second child to undergo an abortion. 
The Chinese make this the most favorable path by offering economic incentives to families with only one child while penalizing families with two or more children. We also continue to trade with other countries such as Vietnam and North Korea, as well as other Marxist brethren ofthe Soviet Union. 
These ·economic sanctions only would hurt the people that we claim we are trying to help. We claim that we would try to change the South African system of government by for­cing it to move to a racially balanced scale through economic sanctions. This would force white-owned businesses to lay off both their white and black employees. 
Also, South African President Botha stated that if the United States took any economic sanctions against South Africa, he would be forced to send all of the foreign workers from the neighboring countries home. This would spell disaster for these countries since most of their economies are tied directly and heavily to the South African economy. Also, many citizens from the neigh-
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Lipo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief ................. , ........................ Philip H. Wolf 
Operations Board 
Business Manager. .......... Dav1d Stephemtch Controller ....... . . .... Wilham J. H1ghducheck Advertismg Manager .... J1m Hagan Systems Manager .. ... Mark B. Johnson Productton Manager. . . John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 
------------~~ 
Accent 
Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 -page 12 
A splendid ground on which to question fate 
Truth. Quidnunc will be the Alma  patriarchs or veterans in the Pepsi  don't eat quiche, so they tried  
Mater that declares itselfUn­ Generation.  suchi, but suchi didn't save them.  
Father Robert Griffin  decided, with a motto that admits: "We're not really sure."  We are the world, Ed. The Promised Land is ours. The  They enrolled at schools officially committed to Truth and Veritas, but  
Truth, Veritas, and Wisdom have  American dream has come true. We  all they got was academic freedom.  
Letters to o Lonely God  campuses and churches founded to protect them. Wisfulness is entitled  are the best-looking, best-washed, cleanest-teethed, shiningest-haired,  They were promised Love, American-style, in exchange for the  
to a.grove in academe for worriers  sweetest-breathed, uncola'd people  rituals of hygiene, religiously ob­ 
who have waited for the answers so  in history, thanks to the ads on  served. The other customers at the  
D ear Edward: I like your University very  vague perception which I would like to describe.  long, they have forgotten the ques­tions. I'm not offering to educate  prime-time television. We're also blessed by technology, and have a  singles bar, getting a whifofthem, thought they were peddling vice.  
much; however, I'm not writing to  the skeptics, Edward. Even Cat­ standard ofliving so high, caliphs  St. Augustine told us that we  
congratulate you as a crazy  The university I'm thinkingof  holics see truth through a glass  and emirs in the "Arabian Nights"  were created to know and love  
Frenchman who had a great vision.  will not.need S300,000,000 worth  darkly. The truth seen through  look like sharecroppers compared  God, am;i that our hearts would be  
Notre Dame is a success. I hope that  ofbuildings to keep it going. It will  many a dark glass is that Malt does  to us.  restless until they rest in Him. The  
part ofyour happiness in heaven  not need 3 or 4 million books in the  not do more than Milton can/To  "The mass ofmen lead lives of  lesson, more than any other, is  
comes from knowing abou the fine  library. A few acres ofland, with  justify God's ways to man.  quiet desperation," wrote Henry  !earned by trial and error. In this  
reputation Notre Dame has. You're  some trees that the birds live in, and  Happiness, in your day, Edward,  David Thoreau, back in your cen­ age ofover-sell, when soap com­ 
not going to hear from me how well  a lake, will do. I would also like  was described as the last end of  tury. In those times, the mass of  panies promise happy marriage, and  
Sacred Heart Church has served us,  some flowers so that the bees will  man, unattainable in this life. Happi­ men didn't know the benefits of  recruitment officers from the Bible  
and how brightly Our Lady on the  come. Ifthere are enough bees, we  ness is now marketed by an Eastern  jogging. Today, the quiety  colleges practically guarantee a  
dome shines at night.  can support ourselves on the sale of  syndicate. Madison Avenue haS  desperate man hires a therapist to  vision ofthe face ofGod, maybe  
Notre Dame was started by Cat­holics who had faith in a collection ofbelie& that they called the Truth. Harvard was begun by Protestants who had a sim~ conviction: Har­vard was founded on Veritas. Veritas is taught behind the ivy­covered walls of Harvard, just as Truth is taught behind the yellow brick walls ofNotre Dame.  honey. The beeswax will be useful in making candles. My university, though simple and modest, could be famous for its contributions of sweetness and light. The name of my university would be Quidnunc, which is a code word for "What's up, Doc?" or "Wilat's­happening-now?" It will not have a faculty, students, or curriculum out  done more than God's grace to improve the world. You never heard ofGleem, Diet Coke, Calvin Klein jeans, Nikes, Prell, Zest, Total, Jane Fonda, or the Scarsdale Diet. Ifyou follow all the directions on the commercial products offering hope, you can practically eliminate the effects oforiginal sin. An old greybeard like you, Ed, could take 15 years off his appearance with  cheer him up. AsJohn Mitchell said at the Watergate hearings: "When· the going gets tough, the tough get going." Thoreau wrote: "Ifa man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away." On the subway, Ed, you see the disap­ there's room for the college of "What's-happening-now?" It could be a breath offresh air to replace the old triumphalism of Truth and Veritas with an admission that the blind are leading the blind. Even in the kingdom of the blind, there are one-eyed men who are kings. If all this sounds dumb, remem­ber my letter on the choice ofa  
My reason for bothering you,  ofthe ordinary. It will mostly be a  Grecian Formula, a hair darkener  pointed faces ofstrapholders who  coach. The laugh was on me that  
father-founder, is that I have an idea for a university. I don't have a  lovely piece ofreal estate to which dreamers can come to argue abou  that would rid you of the ap­pearance ofSanta Claus. Hair styling  have waited for years to hear the drummer and the music. They  time, Edward, old founding father, whose memory I venerate. Not  
central insight like Truth or Veritas  the fickleness ofFate and other  would help too: the Father Abraham  complain that they were deafened  everyone can have your genius, or  
which would serve my university as  such puzzles. Harvard represents  look is out, the Willie Nelson look is  by the silence.  was it luck? With filial affection,  
a cornerstone. I only have this  Veritas. Notre Dame glimpses the  in, for those wishing to be  They were told that real men  R.F.G., Congregation of Holy Cross.  

Gipp is mad at coed ed's acid pen-but her blue eyes 
This is the eighth episode in The Observer's serialpublication ofthe Notre Damefoot­ball story, "The Gipper's Ghost." In last week's episode, newly-recruited halfback Dutch Reagan (the ghost ofGeorge Gipp) kicked a last-minutefield to end Notre Dame's22-game losing streak-in a tte. 
The Gipper's legend 

Collins went on, "Anyway, the Irish missed the extra point, so it was 6-6 at the end ofthe third quarter. Late in the game, the Irish had a third and 26 at the Army 32. Frank Carideo hitJohnny O'Brien with a touchdown pass to make it 12-6. That lead almost didn't hold up. Army made it to the Notre Dame one-yard line. A goal-line defense stopped the Cadets there just as the final gun sounded to end the game." 

"What a finish!" said Gipp. 

"Perhaps more accurately, what a begin­ning for the legend ofthe Gipper. The follow­ing Monday a feature story in the New York Daily News revealed the story. The headline said, GIPP'S GHOST BEATS ARMY. IRISH HERO'S DEATHBED REQUEST INSPIRED NOTRE DAME. When Warner Bros. made the movie in 1940, 'Win one for the Gipper' became part ofthe American language. It's been used at pep rallies and political rallies ever since." 
"Has anyone ever equalled Gipp?" asked Gipp. He was understandably curious. News traveled slow in purgatory. 
"Most ofhis statistics have been surpassed on the field. His rushing record of 2,341 yards held up for more than half a century. But no one has ever matched his legend. Wherever he is, he should be proud of himself." 
Dutch Reagan said quietly, "I'm sure he is. Thanks for the story, Hart." "You know the most amazing part ofthe Gipp story, though? He never played football 
in high school. He preferred baseball. He was an excellent centerfielder. After graduation, he planned to play for the Chicago Cubs." 
The sports editor 
M 
onday evening, Dutch and his 

teammates enjoyed steaks in the North 
Dining Hall. Real, "training table" steaks, not 
the mystery meat variety customarily served 
to the school's student population. 

Hart Collins found a discarded copy ofThe 
Observer on a nearby table. He began 

reading""Summers' Sports," the daily column 
written by the sports editor. 

"What does Summers have to say about the 
game?" 

Collins read from the column. "It says here 
that 'The tie with Michigan State was the 
greatest thrill associated with this colum­
nist's career with The Observer.' " 
"Darn right," said O'Connor. 

Collins proceeded. "The field goal by an 
unheralded walk-on named Dutch Reagan 
was a near miracle. Ifelections for student 
body president were held tomorrow, Dutch 
Reagan would probably win in the biggest 
landslide since student government's brief 
experiment with a monarchy in the early 
'70s." 

"You'd get my vote, Dutch," said Shenan­
doah Lee. 

"Heck, I'd vote for you at least twice," said 
a player from Chicago. 
Collins frowned. 

"Hold on, guys. Summers isn't entirely 
convinced ofour abilities. Listen to how the 
article ends: 'Yes, sports fans, a tie with the 
Spartans is a thrill. Unfortunately, based on 
past performance, the thrill may have to last 
us all year. It's really a shame the team had to 
peak so early in the season. Now, we may 
have nothing left to look forward to.' " 

"PEAK SO EARLY IN THE SEASON?" Dutch said angrily. He was hot. "Anybody know where this Summers character lives?" 
"Breen-Phillips. Why?" 

Reagan jumped and strode toward the exit. "Because I'm going right over there to give him a piece ofmy mind!" 
Collins called out to him, "Dutch! Wait! There's something you should know about Summers ... .'' 
Dutch was too enraged to hear. He was gone. 
"Relax, Hart. He'll find out soon enough," 

said O'Connor. "I'd sure like to be there 
when he comes face to face with the sports 
editor ofThe Observer.'' 
Reagan covered the distance to Breen­Phillips Hall in seconds. The hall was large enough to house about 230 students.· He entered through the north doors which faced Farley Hall. A girl was coming out. 
"Where does that idiot ofa sports editor Summers live?" he demanded. 
The girl was too startled to think. Without hesitation, she blurted out, "Room 305. Up the stairs, third floor, turn left.'' 

Reagan took the stairs two at a time and flung open the double doors on the third­floor landing. Halfway down the hall to his left, he found the door to Room 305. He pounded on it so forcefully that one ofthe door's wooden panels fell in. 
Moments later, the door swung open. A calm voice said, "May I help you?" 
For once in his second life, George Gipp was speechless. Before him stooda girl in an ankle-length terrycloth robe. Atowel was draped around her head. She had the most 
beautiful blue eyes he had ever seen. "I'm sorry. I'm looking for somebody else. I'm very sorry to disturb you." 
"Disturb? I just returned from a shower, some hulk smashes in one of my door panels and you call it a slight disturbance?" 
·"I said I'!J! sorry. I was angry. Just moments ago I read what the sports editor ofThe · Observer had to say about the Irish peaking so early in the season. When I find the jerk I'm going to let him know exactly what I think ofhim!" 
"Oh, really?" 
"The son ofa gun doesn't deserve to be a sportswriter, let alone have a byline." 
The blue eyes turned icy. 
"Well, whoever you ate, you just told 'him'. I'm Summers. Nicki Summers. I'm the sports editor ofThe Observer." 
She slammed the door shut. 
Dutch called through the open panel. "Wait ... .'' "Goodbye!" The panel slammed back into place. Great, just great, Dutch thought. He shuffied away. 
He considered avoiding his friends for a few hours, but evidently they had anticipated the outcome ofhis surprise visit. He found them all waiting for him outside, leaning on the bike racks. He could tell they were all trying to keep from breaking up with laughter. 
"I guess you really told 'him' off, right, Dutch?" 
"Get an exclusive interview, Dutch?" 
"Well, now you know one thing. Notre 
Dame may have the best-looking college 
sports editor in the nation!" Collins said. 
"How would I know? She was shrouded in terry cloth from her head to her toes. I'll get you for this, Hart!" 
"Me? It's not my fault. I tried to stop you." 
Reluctantly, Dutch surrendered. 
"Besides," Hart continued, "Nicki's only the third female sports editor in the history ofThe Observer. How could you have been expected to know?" 
Dutch thought, Indeed, how could I? When I was a student here the first time, the weren't any females at Notre Dame. 
To be continued ... 
From "The Glppcr"s Ghost." CopyTiglu 1985 by Robcn Quakenbush. Published by O'Connor Publlshl"ll Co. Reprinted by 
~rmission . 
.... 

The Observer Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 ·page 13 
Sports Briefs 
The ND wrestling team will travel to East Lansing, Mich. on Saturday to take part in the Michigan State Invitational meet. · The Obsen1er 
The Off-Campus hockey team will hold a practice on Sunday at l l: 1 5 p.m. on the ACC ice rink. All interested are welcome to attend. For more information call Tim at 288-5484. · The Obsen1er 
The ND· basketball teams, both the men's and women's, will play lntrasquad charity basketball games on Sunday beginning at 6:30 p.m.Tickets are $I for students and can be purchased at Gate I 0 of the ACC. All proceeds will benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics and the Neighborhood Study Help 
Program. · The Obsen1er 
· 

Help Prevent Birth Defects ~ Support the 
~ ~!9DIC9.tQ~!Jl~
Apep rally will be held Friday evening at 7 p.m. at Stepan Center. Irish Quarterback Coach Ron Hudson will be the featured speaker. · The Observer 
The ND men's basketball team wm hold a scrimmage on Saturday at 4 p.m. Free to the public, the scrimmage will be held in the ACC. · The Observer 
WVFI Sports will broadcastSaturday's Notre Dame· Mis­sissippi football game beginningwith "The Irish Today" at 11:45 a.m. on AM-64. Pete Pranica and Kevin Herbert will handle the play-by­play.· The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 17 

Th" Ohsl'rt·a :'1/otrr Dame: otfin·. i<Katnl on tht· third floor of l.a~ortunt· ~tudt·nt Cc:ntc;r. Kn·ph da"itkd adn·rti"nl( from \1 am until ·t p m.. \lunda\ throuJ~h ~riday Thl' Ohs!'rt'l'r Saint \tan·, otfin·. lot·atcd on tlw th1rd floor,;,. llaJ~jo:ar Colkjo:t' <.cntt·r. accept\ da'"tkd' from 1.!..~0 p m unttl ~ p m ..\ton· da\· thoujo:h htda\ lkadlint· lt~r nt·xt·da\ c·Ja,"tkd' " .~ p.m .-\11 da.-ifit:d• mu't ht· prt·pald. t•llho:r 111 pt·"on or h\ ma1l <harl(t:" I 0 cT!ll' pt:r fiH·c·harac·
Classifieds 
It'" n dav 

NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING CAll CHRII 234-8887 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 
TYPING 277-t045 FREE PICKUP AND DWVERY 
HELP WANTED $60.00 PEA HUNDRED PAID lor proc_.ng matl at home' Information, oend aelf·addreued. ahlmped envelope Aaaoclatee. Box 95. Aoeetle. New Jeraey 072Q3 
I1G-UIO WEEKLY/UP IIAIUNG Ctii­CULAMI NO QUOTUI IINCERELY INTERUTI!D RUIH IELf· ADORUUD ENVELOPE: IUCCI!A, PO IIOX 470CI!O, WOODITOCK, IL 
eo<KMI. 
EXPERT TYPING IERVICE. CALL MRI. COKI!It, 233-7001. 
BUIINEII EJIPREII, INC. Wordpr....-lng and typing 272-1827 
Prof-onal word pr.,.,_ng and typ1ng. Conv..,.enllocallon on N. Ironwood. Cell 277·4220 lor appoontment. 
HAND·KNITIEO IN IRELAND. WOOLEN ARAN SWEATERS ONLY $60 SCARF. MITIS. HAT AND SWEATER SET ONLY $99. Pt-<ONE 288 8tt2 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST • ONE GOlD LOOP EARRING ABOUT 6 WEEKS AGO SOMEWHERE BETWEEN PANGBORN AND REGINA. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 284-4006 
FOUND: Solve< Br-et Fliday Night in Pangborn. Call 289-4238 to Identity. 
FOUND: WOMAN'S WAIST WATCH ON DANCE FLOOR OF SENIOR BAA. CALL TOM AT -3556 TO IDENTIFY AND CLAIM 
LCJeT: Gold women'a ND cleaa rtng, blllck onya with a Cllamond,lnlllala JLT -841 lnetde. P._. .,.. Jollnle at 2U.2771. 
UIC TAILOATOR it whe<e I loll my b<ke Ita a blue Schwinn Trav-111 to-apeed. Lui aeen at the 'FIIIcon' tallgator on Green Field duling the USC blowout. PIMH help me out if you know whe<e it it. Ihi my only way to campua from my houae. Clll Steve X 288·6176. 
Loet A paJr of gJrfa eyeglau• burgundy color lramee, between the Grotto and Ftanne<. II you have them PLEASE con­hlct me at284-4t28. Thankalll 
ENOUGH II you can find it In your heart pi­return my wallet by calling Jon Liu at 2385. I'm lored of wa~t1ng for that vacuoua cavity known u your cranial capadty lo decide whal to do next. Keep the money. jual return the reel of my atuff. 
FOR RENT 
....................... 

RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR CITY/COLLEGATE RENTALS INC.,2597661 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED IM· MEDIATELY.NOTAE DAME APTS.CHEAP CALL ALICE 287·7657. 
HOUSE FOR 2ND SEMESTER. 5­BORMS. $t25/MO/PEASON. 1 MI. NO. Of CAMPUS. CALL 674-MIIS AFTER 5 P.M. 
WANTED 
AIDE/RIDERS NEEDED TO SYRACUSE 11/15-17 CALL KELLY 424t 
Need ride to Pinaburvh tor Thankaglvlng break. Cln leave anytime. Cell TerHI at 287·6703. 
DRIVER TO TAKE CADILLAC TO PALM SPGS. CA. EARLY DEC. AUTO EX· PENSES PAID. 233·56t8 
NEED AIDE TO DAYTON!! NOV. 15-17. Call Donna 2279 
FOR SALE 
TICKIE11l FOR IALE: 2 L.aU OA'I. CAll (111) 771-0830 NIGHTS/WEEKENDS. 
TICKIE11l FOR IALE: 2 L.aU OA'I. CALL (111) 771-0830 NIGHTS/WEEKENDS. 
'75 FIAT IEDAN $650 Need to sell ASAP! 2B4-402t 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL PROGRAMS FOR SALE· Oreal g1N idea for "llumna". parenta or collectora. t932·1984. Over 200. Cd Ken (219) 277-4342. 
FOR SALE KENWOOD AM·FM STEREO AECEIVEA;50 WATIS/CHANNEL · 2 SETS OF PIONEER CAR SPEAKEAS;ROUNO-INMOUNT· MARKUS 277-0840 ANYTIME 
FOR SALE: TWO MISSISSIPPI GA'S. CALL TOMAT1667. 
HAND·KNITIED IN IRELAND. WOOLEN ARAN SWEATERS ONLY $60. SCARF. MITIS. HAT AND SWEATER SET. ONLY $99. PHONE 288 61t2 
TICKETS 
NEEDED··2-4 GA'S FOR LSU GAME. WILL PAY PREMIUM. CALL 4434. 
I NEED Mill Q.Aa.272-ao& 
PENN ITATE TIX NEEDED CALL 11104 
PENN ITATE TIX NEEDED CALL 11104 
Mill GAl FOR IALE.272-aoll 
I NEED PENN IT AND LSU OA11.272­83011 
NEED 4 STUD. OR GA TIX FOR MISS. CHRIS 272-2466 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 LSU GA'$­WILL PAY TOP $$1CALL JOHN AFTER 1tPMAT460t. 
.............................. FOR IALE: 2 IIIII. TJX. CALL (415) 388-11.AFTER8 CALIF. TIME. 
I NEED A AIDE HOME FOR THE PENN STATE GAME. I LIVE AN HOUR FROM PENN STATE. FREE MEALS AND LODGING TO WHOEVER GETS ME HOME. CALL CAROl 1273 
I need many Mill OA'I Leave 1 m....aoge al283-2943. 
NEED 2-4 GA'S lor Mlu. game. Clll Helen 3624. 
lor tile : two miaa ticketa call jly 232· 0554 
PI-help oend MB club of Wharton to Penn Sl. game Nov. 16. If you have (or know any01111 who hu) llcketa, ~call BiN Georven at 4187 or 3751, or Kate Georgenat(215)·732·7842. Thanka! 
NEED Mill. QA'I. W/BUY OR TJIIADE FOR TIX TO OTHER GAMEl. CAll 277-7570. 
NEED tO PENN STATE TIX (GA OR STONT) CALL 4434 
DESPEAATEL Y NEED 4 MISS. TIX (STUDENT OR G.A.). WILL PAY $$ !! CALL SHARON AT 4367!! 
..................... YOU WANT THEM-I'VE GOT THEM!! 2 MISSISSIPPI GA'S avalt.ble. Pleale call Frank at x20t8. 
FOR SALE 2 MISS GA'S 284·5073 
NEED 4 LSU GA'S CALL LYNN 284-4023 
I'M DATING A LAWYER'S DAUGHTER COULD BE IN BIG TROUBLE IF I DON'T GET LSU TIX CALL 2488 AND HELP ME OUT BEFORE HE SUES MY PARENTS OR TELLS THE ADMIN. ABOUT MY FELONY CONVICTIONS 2488·2488· 2488-2488-2488·2488 
Need Miaa Stud Tlx-1644 
I HAVE MISS. GA'S TOM 3t80 
....... o.ltry won't be h•e for the game... But you can pick him up lor only $7.25 at Rock du Lac. li,.t lloor LaFortune. 
NEED 2·3 STUDENT TIX FOR MISS GAME. PLEASE HELP MEl CALL KATHY AT 4598. 
FOR SALE 2 MISSISSIPPI STUDENT TIXS CALL 284·5312 
I miaa atd ticket $t2. 272·9090 
WHAT A DEAL!!! 5 G.A. TIX FOR A MORE THAN REASONABLE PRICE. CALL 288-545t. SUPPLY IS LIMITED !!I 
FOR SALE: Miaa tix • 2 GAl AND t Slu. Call Billxt083 
WANTED FOR A RICH DOCTOR: 8 GAt in blocks of 2 or more for lhe LSU game. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Fran at 2667. 
................................ 
I'LL DD ANYTHING lor an LSU atudent ticket. Call Alicia II 2687. 
FORMER BAND MEMBER NEEDI 1 Mill. ITUDENT TICKET. Lei me aee my fl,.t game lrom the ahlnda. Call Caryn 2887. 
Mlaa. aludent tix for tile. Call Renee. 2631 
For Sale: 2 Mi... lix, call t635 
2 GA'S FOR MISS. FOR SALE. CALL 237·7713 BEFORE 10 P.M. ASK FOR PETER. 
NEED PENN STATE TICKETS CALL CATHY (284·5237) OR ALICE (284· 5260) PLEASE HELP USI! 
PERSONALS 
There are excitements indeed, having one·a book reed by many people. One can /orget, ch8Jl11ng mlle·a·mlnute down the /ace or 1 giant wave, that If one /an·r terribly aklllful. the next ourprlae ia aome~mN c.tled a wlp-.t 
• Richerd Bach. The Bridge AcrOM F-er 
OAR HOUSE: COlD BEER AND Ll· OUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.. 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? 
Call 234-<l363. 24-hr. hoUine, counaeling 
AND free pregnancy tee... 
WOitiEN'I CARE CENTER 

Post-Graduate Serll/ce COUNIEUNG AIIOCIATE PROGRAM 
Women 'a Core Center IF YOU ARE CONCERNED MOUT WOMEN WHO AilE EXPERIENCING A PROBLEM PIII!QNANCY, THE WOitiEN'I CARE CENTER HAl A PROGRAM THAT MAY BE OF INTEII­EIT TO YOU. WE ARE Of>PCJeED TO ABORTION AND WANT TO HELP THE WOMAN FACING A PROBLEM PREG­NANCY WITH UFE-IAVING AL· TEIINATIVEI BY OFFI!IIING HER THE LOVE AND IUPPORT IHE MAY NEED TO CARRY HEll CHILD TO TEIIII. AND WE NEED YOUR HELP! THE COUNIEL· lNG AIIOCIATE PIIOQIIAII II OF· FEIIEDTOGRADUATUINTERUTED IN COUNIEUNG OR IOCIAL WORK, AND AIILE TO WOI'IK AT THE WOIIEN'I CARE CENTI!JI ON A FULL· TIME, VOLUNTEER IIAIII. FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL THE CENTER AT234-0383. 
EARN $$$ FOR ALL THOSE BOOKS YOU DIDN'T AEADII PANDORA'S WILL BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M·F 11-4. OR WE CAN HELP YOU FIND A USED BOOK FOR A CLASS. WE'RE OPEN M· F lt-6, SATANOSUN tG-5. PANDORA'S IS OPPOSITE CORBY'S X 937 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
................................ 

Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE AT 272-HIKE. Delivery Hou,.: Monday· Thu!Bday 5pm-12pm; Friday 5pm·2am; Saturday 3pm·tam and Sunday 4pm­10pm. 
UNITED WAY·SAB ROCK-A-LIKE IS COMING! 
THUASDAY.NOVEMBER14~ 
WELCOME BACK TO SAINT MARY'S. MAURA HURLEY The place hun't been the aame alnce you left. The dogl h•ve had lo otart eating Alpo. Love, E.B. 
~ankyou so much at. jude 
LON HUFFMAN 
HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY! WISH I COULD BE THERE BABE! LOVE YABUNCHEI 
T. 

Thank you St. Jude. 
NEED AIDE TO YOUNGS. OHIO FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK PLEASE CALL ELAINE SMC-4007. WILL PAY USUALI 
SOCK HOP SOCK HOP SOCK HOP Friday, Nov. 8 9-12:30 ACC Concouroe $2 for Unlled Way Pizza, aoda, popcorn Dance Your Clua Off 
FAMOUS QUOTES, by Kevin FioRito: "I may have high ahlndarda. but I allo have hormones." 
Welcome 

Mr and M,. Lochhead 
Enjoy your -ekend, 
and thanka lor aharing your eon 
He's 1 wicked good leader 
CILA 
HEY DIANE SCHNELL! 
HAPPY ANNIVERSARY. 
LOVEJ.B. 
From ABC to ZZ TOP 
We offer Ill our 11bu1111 and llpee II dia­
count prices. 

lnc/udng the /liNt by: AHA. RUSH, 
UB40, and PAUL YOUNG. Rock du LAc. 
Firat floor. LaFortune 
VOUS ETES TOUS INVITES A LA CREPERIE DU CERCLE FRANCAIS CE VENOREDI SOIA OE 21h JUSOU'A MINUIT A BADIN HALL. IL Y AURA UNE SELECTION DE CREPES ET DE BOIS. SONS CHAUDS ET FROIOS. ALORS, VENEZTOUSI THE FRENCH CLUB INVITES YOU TO 
DINE AT ITS CREPERIE CE FRIDAY 
NIGHT. 9 TO 12 IN BADIN HALL 
DOWNSTAIRS. CREPES AND AS­
SORTED DRINKS WILL BE SERVED. 
COME AND EXPERIENCE FRANCE 
AND ITS CUISINE I 

................................................. 
SMC CIRCLE K CLUB MEETING 
8PM MON. 11/11 IN THE GAMEROOM 
OF HAGGAR. 

ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATIEND AND 
TO LEARN ABOUT CIRCLE K. 
REFRESHMENTS! 

HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY CHRIS CON· WAY (NOV 9) Old you reilly ~Ink I could Iorge! auch an lmporhlnt day? Love. Debbie 
Helpll 4 "Cougarettee" need -•­seata togethe< lor the John Cougar Mel· lencamp Concert. cal Jenniler at 284· 4092 
THE COTION CLUB 
THE COTION CLUB 

SMCFRESHMANFORMAL NOV.22 
...................... 
CHEEEASII SMC Freehman Study Break Nov. t4 at Haggar 
...................•... 
SENIORS! Teet your knowledge of Sou~ Bendt Road Rally Sunday Nov. 10. Regille< Senior Bar Pari<lng Lot II 9:30 am $1. Prize Ia dinne<lor two 11 Meal'a. 
IENIOI'IIh.OCK PARTY 
SENIOR IILOCK PARTY 
lENlOR IILOCK PARTY 

.......................... 
DATING IS LIKE A TUG-OF-WAR ­JUST ONE JERK AFTER ANOTHER 
SMC Admirer: Meet me at my place aNer game Saturday. JH 
Mari-LO SIENTO LO SIENTO LO SIENTO Eapero que -lodavia ml amiga. Allison 
JH: LETS MEET ON THE ISlAND ON ST. JOE'S LAKE, 11/08 AT 4:30. YOUR SMC ADMIRER. 
IENIOitl liON UPI FOR SR.REFLECTION QROUPI TODAY,C.I.C. 
JAH LOVE·····PAEPAAE FOR THE ADVENTUAE-·t034 EDDY, SAT. NIGHTIIII 
To ~e Soc. major !rom the cocldail party: Even ~ough I'm In accounting and probllllly dance In a box, I like hearing your vieM. "The<e'a atilt timelo ch.,..... you lllld. Call me? (Try p.342 ol 1985) • Bill. 
Atkie Annie. the architecture godd-. tuma 20 tomorrow! Give he< 1 cal 11 2750 Uuat aak lor the one with the aWMOme body) or alop by the blonde bomblhelter and wish her a HAPPY BIRTHDAY In pe<· 
son. 

....................................... 
My lillie brudder: GREG "BA8YCAKES" WAGNER turna 20 today. Celebra tiona will commence at 5:30 In t28 Keenan. All ND/SMC women are en coureged to alop by and help him eacape the net of teenagerhood. 
HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY, MIKE KLEIN I You managed to 81C1pe thia y-.Butjuat w.-lt tiM you're21. 
from your lana in the WM/J qua<n. 
DelrND, 

Octoberfeet Ia here. Dire Stralta il he<e. 
We're he<e and you're not. P-Nnd 
hate mall c/o lnnlbruck Prog~~m 
lnnrain 33/1 
A-6020 lnnabruck 

Auatria Love, Uz, Chrla R., Kathy, Rob. U.. (not Sullll), Suaan (not Uaa), Shannon, Joe, MllfY, Christy (one way ~cket). Donna, Ann. EJI. Melt and Pelly, Amy, Danny, ChrlaJ. 
WelcometoNDII-......... Btl, Doug,-Dorve 
Mr. Grey Cloud, Even grey clouda haveli/ver Mninga. Mil}' Sunahlne 
P.J. AmiMirVII 20 on Sundayl Roe. we red and vloleta wen't green. Portia may be older. but ahe'a atiN the lEX 
MACHINE I 
Welcome to NO Phibn Gang ENJOY! 
MAE Thanka tor being 10 greatl ILOVEYOUII Gene 
MIKE. COLLEEN. JUDE, MELISSA, 
PAT. MICHELLE. AND THE REST Of 
THE FOLKS FROM CAEIGHTON-I'm 
SOOOOO excited you •• II 11«8111 
Welcome to Notre Oamel We'l llhow you 
a good time! Love, Mary ('M' o1 
"MANDM'a") 
.f:.T. SHUT-UP E.T SHUT·UP E.T. SHUT-UP E.T. SHUT-UP E.T. SHUT-UP 
E.T. SHUT·UP E.T. SHUT-UP 
THANKS ST. JUDE. YOU'RE THE GREATEST. 
...................................................... HI Becky! 
MARK 14 DAYS AND COUNTING! MARY 
FAIHION VICTIMI THE BEAUX ARTS BALL Nov. t5, 1985 UVE BANDIII (Chicago'a own Big Man Ill-ad Bind) llx: $4 preMie,.$5 at the door 
... UPAT THE CRACK OF NOON... 
...... ........... 
The herd ia interviewing for 1 bul. To apply contact the head cow II 2886. MOO! 
J.T. Quit reading the peraonela, we know lt'a your only IOIJrce of In! ormation. -F. 
!hank you very much lllnt jude 
HOLY CRoal WEEK '85:NOV.•I4 
SAT. HOLY CROSS TAILGATER lOAM 
SUN. MASS 7 PM, MOVIE "ARTHUR" 
AND NACHOS 8:30 PM MON. BREAK· 
FAST 7-9:30, FIRESIDE CHAT 6:30PM 
TUES. COlOR DAY WED. OPEN 
HOUSE 3:30-5 PM THUA. MISS HOLY 
CROSS CONTEST 7:00PM COlli! JOIN 
THE FUN 
ATIENTION ALL WOMEN FROM SMC/ND Be aure to ell RAFAEL CAR· REIRA and wiah him a happy blrthdayl 283-4080 Happy 19th GOOB Love, Cyn­thia 
jE'F'F'''WELCOME..BACKi···it;~···;;··tt;~ 
aame without you. Love. Amy 
ANDY OURNAN HAPPY HAPPY HAPPY 2tll BIRTHDAY love, the girll you met In Franklin! 
ANDY, I LIKE LIKE LIKE YOU! II MET 
TO MY MAN AT SMC 'BRAR WITH THE BALLOON-FILLED CAR: REMEMBER WHEN I SAID I WAS PATIENT FOR REVENGE? HOW'D I DD? I HAD TO LET THE HOT AIR OUT SOMEHOW. ·HAPPY CAMPER 
To the Shlnford "Siuda": We-.ldloveto -the plea you took o1 yourMiv• EX· PLOtTED In the pape<lll 
MEGAN· HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO OUIII FOOT (?) FIIIENDI KEIEP T1'IYING. DON'T LoeeANYTHING IN D.C. WE'LL ...YOUII-LDVE Ul ALL 


r-------·--------------------­
--~­
-~---­

f r 
The Observer Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 -page 14 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN 

S~rlter 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team closed its season Tuesday, falling to Franklin College, 7-15, 2-1 5, 3-15. 
Franklin, according to Belles Head Coach Mary Jo Lambert, is the best team in the district. 
"We played with them extremely well in the first game," commented Lambert, "but Franklin's coach is very good and he made adaptations and attacked our lackofheight in the front line. 
"Franklin is a very good team, but they are heatable," added Lambert. 

r 
"It was a great experience for the girls because now we know what we 
t 
have to accomplish for next year."

I 
f 
Lamabert said she is optimistic about next year's team. There are no seniors on the team this season, so all players are ~xpected to return. Lambert said she has seen an in­crease in the players' commitment 
to the team as the season wore on. "We had enough moments ofbril-
Andrysiak 
continuedfrom page 20 

Competition was never much ofa problem in high school for the soft­spoken Andrysiak. At St. Frances Cabrini High School, he lettered in basketball, baseball and track, while rewriting every passing record known on the school's gridiron. When gradution rolled around, Mic­higan, Michigan State, Boston Col­lege and Nore Dame all applied the recruiting pitch. 
Ironically, the fact that the prep star's father, Donald, had graduated pre-med from Notre Dame made little impact on the decision. It seems Terry had the maize and blue of Michigan in his blood, and therefore was not in the least bit a fun ofits rival in South Bend. 
"My dad really left it all up to me," says Andrysiak "I was a Michigan freak all my younger years, and I didn't really consider Notre Dame until my senior year. You get twisted every which way by recruiters, but I liked Notre Dame." 
Once under the confines of the Golden Dome, Andrysiak began his gradual climb up the depth chart. Last season's hard work culminated in three series of action against Colorado in which he handed off all nine plays. 
Seniors  4:00-5:00  Monday, November 11  
Juniors  5:00-6:00  Monday, November 11  
Sophomores  4:00-5:00  Wednesday, November 13  
Freshman  5:00-6:00  Wednesday, November 13  

"It was exciting, but they didn't want to put too much pressure on me right away," notes Andrysiak. "It was a thrill playing in front of the crowd. Everyone dreams of being able to play football for Notre Dame. 
Since then, Andrysiak has shown the potential to be the next great quarterback ofNotre Dame. Accord­ing to Hudson, however, this may take time. 
"He's on track to be a quality player, but a lot of things will come into account," notes Hudson. "He's an all-around athlete, but is just now starting to analyze the game. He's just now starting to look for more than the primacy receiver. 
"Terry is adding another dimen­sion by not dropping back and by rollingout to the corners. He made a comment to me on the sideline after the Navy game. He came up to me and said, 'This is fun."' 
For Terry Andrysiak, the fun may just be starting. 
Join Us 
Tbe Observer is always looking for new talent. If you are interested in newspaper writing or newspaper produc­tion, stop up at Tbe Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune. 

'Solid, consistent' Kara Tekulve a~ded to '85 SMC volleyball team 
Hance to know what our capabilities are," said Lambert. "I'm excited for next year. I accomplished what I set out to do -I've got them hooked." 
Hooked they are. The players will be practicing during the off season and will be returning early next fall for training, which is something not usually done by Saint Mary's ath­letes. 
One of those returning athletes is sophomore Kara Tekulve. An In­dianapolis native, she has been a stable force for the Belles all year. She has a 92 percent serving record, a 91-percent mark in pass reception and an 88-percent score in assists to the setter, which is the second hig­hest assist percentage on the team. 
Tekulve, a nursing major, has been playing volleyball since sixth grade, and she coached junior high volleyball for two years. Tekulve was the captain of her high school team as a senior. That year she also was named the team's most valuable player, while receiving the Joseph P. Harmon Leadership/Athletic Award, the Marion County Coaches' Award. In addition, she was nominated as the Female Athlete ofthe City. 

Tekulve said she decided to at­tend Saint Mary's because ofits small size and excellent nursing program. She said she wanted to play vol­leyball for a small school. Tekulve said she prefers playing volleyball at Saint Mary's over high school be­cause collegiate volleyball is more competetive and there is more strategy incorporated into the game rather than just the reliance upon skill. 
Tekulve plays outside hitter, and her role on the team has changed considerably since last year. Then, she was a freshman and new to the team, while this year with only three returning players and six freshmen she is one of the more experienced players for the Belles. 
"Kara has been a solid, consistent player all year," said Lambert. "She is a good all-around player. She is very coachable and has made a lot of im­provement this year." 
SObering ~e·~\ 
cansavealife,, 
.. ) 
.)~
Think Before You Drink ~ Before You Drive 
Special StudentI Youth Fares to 
SCANDINAVIA 
On Scheduled Airlines! The inexpensive way to get to Scandinavia~ Winter Rates: New York to Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm from $215 one way, $350 roundtrip Chicago to Copenhagen from $215 one way, $350 roundtrip Chicago to Oslo, Stockholm from $255 one way, $430 roundtrip and tours designed especially for students to the 
SOVIET UNION 
For Information Call: 
WHOLE WORLD TRAVEL 17 E. 45th St., New York, NY 10017 (212) 986-9470 

Rebel sez: 
Compare our prices! 
ironwood liquors 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 ,2191272-7144 


Featuring 24 bulb beds with facial Unit. Our large, contoured beds are over 7feet long and provide a 360° tan. 2314 So. Bend Ave.(next to Martins) Call for appointment 277·6444 
Open 7·9 Mon-Frl 8·8 Saturday 
Theology at Saint Mary's College 
NO students may fulfill their frrst requirement in theology by taking RLST lOO at SMC and RLST 201-299 at SMC for the second requirement in theology 
ND students register at Angela Athletic Facility at the following times: 
•For more information call: 284-453414535 

Tired of Running Around for Bargains? 
j? 

IAs~ Ey 

Mishawaka, Indiana 

"'HONDA 
Bob Welch 
Sales Representative Used Car Department 
3820 Grape Rd.

Phone(219)256-5550 
Mishawaka. IN 46545 

Transportation Specials: 
1976 Maverick  1979 Pontiac Grand Prix  
4 door, 6 cylinder, automatic  8 cylinder, automatic, power  
FM radio, 5500 miles  steering, air, FM radio, 40,000 mi.  
$1995  $3900  


The Observer 

~ ot.nver/Paul Pahornky 

Sophomore Kara Tekulve provided stable play for the Saint Mary's volleyball team tbrougboullbe 1985 season. Christine For­tin wrtles about/be season and about Tekult>e in herstory on page 14. 

The Committee on 
Public Policy Studies The University of Chicago 
Master's/PH.D. Program in Public Policy Analysis and Management 
Mr. Steven Wheatley, Dean of Students, will be on campus to discuss the program and career opportunities. 
NovemberS, 1985 1:30-3:30 Placement Office For more information please call239-5200 
Interested students with any major are welcome to attend these meetings. 
Study policy issues including: Urban Fiscal Stress, Health Care, Housing, International Trade, Economic Development, Taxation, Regulation, Federalism. Welfare, Energy, Arms Control, Immigration, etc. 
' I r • 

• 

Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 -page 15 
Four senior players helped pace first -ever SM C varsity soccer team 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
SportsWriter 

Central to the success of the Saint Mary's soccer team's first varsity season was the talent and commit­ment of senior players Katie Boldt, Maureen Murphy, Mary Beth Proost and Sue Schier!. 
These players were key figures not only on the soccer field but also in the development of the College's soccer program itself. 
Boldt, a fifth-year senior, helped initiate the Saint Mary's Soccer Club when she was a freshman, and Murphy, Proost and Schier! all played on the club team during their freshman, sophomore and junior years. 
The interest in soccer among en­thusiastic students like these prompted the College athletic department to sponsor a varsity team. 
Boldt, a psychology and German major from Palatine, IlL, said she was thrilled with the College's decision to make soccer a varsity sport. 
"I was so happy to find out last year we could go varsity," she said. "The team no longer had to worry about the scheduling or any costs, and we could play more competitive teams." 
When soccer was a club sport, the team was a member of the Michiana Soccer League, which limited its competition to area teams. 
"As a club team, the only other colleges we played were Goshen and Notre Dame," Boldt said. "This season all ofour games were against collegiate teams. It was a lot more challenging to play against such skilled competition." 
Murphy, an English writing and government major from St. Louis, Mo., said she believes the decision to make soccer a varsity sport was a wise one. 
"I think soccer is growing so much as a sport in the United States that going varsity shows progress as far as women's collegesgo," she said. 
According to Proost, a psychology major from St. Louis, the decision was a positive one for the whole Saint Mary's sports program. 
"I think it was an important step for the school and for sports at Saint 
Mary's,"  she  said.  "The  players  
worked  hard  to  earn  the  varsity  
status."  

Schier!, a philosophy and Spanish major from Green Bay, Wis., said she sees the College's decision to spon­sor a varsity soccer team as one that acknowledges the commitment of the team members. 
"The decision shows a lot of the dedication to the soccer program on the part of the players and in­itiators," she said. "I think it's the start of a really strong soccer program at Saint Mary's." 
These seniors not only con­tributed to the development of the 


• 

RESTAURANT & LOUNGE 10331AKE STREET 
NILES. MICHIGAN 616/683-7474 

a Notre Dame, SaintMary's Tradition for over 30 years. 

JUST ASK ANYONE! 
I 2
• 
• 

soccer program, but they played an 
important role on the soccer field, 
also. 
Boldt served as center halfback 

for the Belles, a pOSition in which 
she was responsible for directing the 
action on the field to help control 
the game. 

According to Belles Head Coach John Akers, Boldt was a "solid center halfback who was a key player both offensively and defensively." 
Murphy played primarily as stop­per for the team, a defensive posi­tion, but toward the end of the season she saw action at right ful­
lback, as welL 
"Maureen proved at fullback that she was one of our more aggressive defensive players," Akers said. 
Proost alternated between the ful­lback and halfback positions for the Belles. 
"Mary Beth was an important utility person, taking on several posi­tions for us," Akers said. 
Schier!, the team's center­forward, or striker, worked at the wings and at the center of the field and was, according to Akers, "a con­sistent goal scorer." 
Despite the team's final record of 
5·9, all four playe.rs said they believe 
the season was successfuL 

Boldt remarked that the team started out slowly but gradually im­proved, particularly with the arrival of assistant coach Eric Evans at mid­season. 
"I think we did well for being a first-year varsity team," Boldt said. "Ourseason didn't startout well, but as the season progressed, we got bet­ter Eric Evans helped us out a lot. He can communicate well with the players." 
According to Murphy, the players improved and worked together more as a team with each game. 
"We kind ofgot offto a slow start," she said. "There: were lots of new people who had to adjust to the commitment the sport requires. Toward the end of the season, though, everyone pulled together as a unit, and we started playing well as a team." 
Proost remarked that she was 

satisfied with the Belles' season, 
especially in light of the tough com­
petition. 
"I think our first season as a varsity team was successful. We had a tough schedule. Considering our competi­tion, we did really well," she said. 
Schier! suggested that the team's season record isn't an accurate in­dication of the players' abilities. 
"I was a little disappointed in our record. We should have won more games. We had a lot of talent," she said. 
The team wiU have to search for some new talent to fill the positions these seniors vacate. All four players wiU graduate in the spring. 
Proost is undecided about post­graduation plans. Boldt and Schier! plan to go to Germany after gradua­tion, and Murphy wiU attend graduate school to study political science. 

100 c.tw,........ 251-1241 
50'• &60'• Music 
OPEN 7DAYSA WEEK AT7 P.M. 

Football Notebook 
every Thursday in The Observer 


Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 -page 16
The Observer 
Men's interhall football playoffs continue with 4 teams remaining 
Flanner vs. Grace 

By GREG STOHR 
spomwriter 
September 22, 1985 -Grace defeats arch-rival Flanner, 2-0, as a blocked punt by the Green Machine's Tom Doyle results in a safety. 
Flanner hopes to avenge that defeat, its only loss of the season, Sunday at 2:30p.m. on Cartier Field when the tower dorms again meet. This time, it will be in the semi-finals of the interhall football playoffs. 
"I thought we outplayed them in 

that game," said Flanner captain 
Tom Sullivan. "But we had almost 
200 yards in penalties. 
"It's a big rivalry. This is the first 

year that the two of us have been in 
the playoffs." 
Flanner edged Stanford, 8-7, last 

Sunday to advance to the second 
round. After a poorly-played first 
half, Flanner (now 4-1-1 ) 
rebounded in the second half to 
score the winning touchdown. 
"In the first half we were pretty 

stale," said Sullivan, "but in the 
second half we looked like a new 
team." 
Grace captain Ed Bornemann was 

at the game, too, but he said he was 
not quite so impressed. 
"I still think Flanner will be 
tough," he said, "but after watching 
the game, I think we have a really 
good shot at controlling the game." 
Grace, 4-1, had a first-round bye 
last Sunday, but the Green Machine 
did not rest on the seventh day. 
Grace scrimmaged previously-

eliminated Cavanaugh to remain sharp. Grace will have to rely on its quickness ifit is again to conquer the much larger Flanner squad. "Our biggest weakness is that we don't have size," said Bornemann. "We have a lot ofsmall, quick guys." Grace has opened up its passing attack since its initial encounter with Flanner. Quarterback john Mihalovich's top recievers include wide receivers johnny Vanderlaan and Tony jordan and tight end john 
Deckers. Freshman fullback Tom 
Doyle handles much of the running 
duties. 
Other top Grace players include 
guard Bill Cope, linebacker Mike 
Wisneski, center/linebacker Charlie 
jolie, and guard/defensive tackle 
Phil Poinsatte. 
Flanner had to alter its power of­
fense against Stanford with some 
trickery but will still rely on its run­
ning game, especially tailback Tim 
Arnold. Flanner also boasts one of 
the toughest defenses in the league. 
The winner will face either Sorin 
or Alumni next Sunday for the inter­
hall championship. 
Sorin vs. Alumni 
By GREG STOHR 
SportsWriter 
Rockne Division champion Sorin will risk its undefeated record Sun­day when it faces hard-hitting Alumni in the semi-finals of the in­terhall football playoffs Sunday at 1 
p.m. on Cartier Field. 
The 4-1 Dogs will present Sorin with its biggest challenge of the season. Alumni eliminated Howard, 12-1 0, last Sunday to reach the second round, while Sorin drew a first-round bye with its 4-0 record. 

Alumni boasts strong-armed quar­terback Ken Schuermann, who threw two touchdown passes . against Howard, both to tight end Paul Laughlin, and backs Chad and Tim Smith as its top offensive threats. The Dogs will need a potent offense to top Sorin, who has yet to allow a point this season. 
"They're a tough team, no doubt about it," says Laughlin, Alumni's captain. "They're going to be the toughest team we've played all year." 
Defensively, Sorin relies mainly on its tough line ofjim Fallon, Mark Avallone and Steve Trepiccone and linebacker Steve Pampush. · Sorin's offense has suffered from a lack of practice time, according to captain K.J. Phelan. Still, led by quar­terback Mike Kurowski and tailback Sean Garrett, the Otters have averaged almost 14 points per game this year. 
"Our only problems," said Phelan, "have been timing and coordina­tion." 
Sorin will attack an Alumni defense which encountered problems last week against Howard, whose 1 0 points were the second most scored against the Dogs this 
season. 

"Our defense did not play up to their ability l!l5t week," said Laugh­lin. "When we needed a play they came through, but they bent too 
much." 

The victor will meet the Grace­Flanner winner next Sunday in the interhall championship game. 
MANDATORY MASS TONIGHTI 
Just one ofthe Reflections In The Dome 
Now on Sale at ND Bookstore 
"Take a bit ofNotre Dame history home with you when you leave campus" 
Fro• Juniper Prea• 

Burns Creative Party Shoppe 
608 Liberty Dr. Mishawaka 
RENTAL OF: 
cond~ 

cotton Popcorn Machines d Electric) Gritls(G05 on Suo Cone } lfotD, )
''"' h oggers
uac oCheese 

SUPPLIES AVAILABLE FOR ALL MACHINES 
Helium Rental and Sale ofBalloons in collegiate and other colors Hour•: 
CALL: 259-4807

9 am· 5 pm Mon-Fri 9 am -12 pm Saturday VISA and Mastercard 



CAMPUS ALL-NIGHTER 
THROUGH
NOV. 15 6PM NOV. 16 11AM 
COME SUPPORT THE SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
\\ l 


EVENTS 

BASKETBALL· MEN'S AND WOMEN'S INDOOR SOCCER· MEN'S AND WOMEN'S COREC INNERTUBE WATER POLO BROOMBALL ·OPEN COREC VOLLEYBALL SQUASH· NOVICE AND ADVANCED RACQUETBALL SINGLES· MEN'S AND WOMEN'S RACQUETBALL MIXED DOUBLES TABLE TENNIS SINGLES AND p0WBLES NERFFOOTBALL·OPEN WHIFFLE BALL· OPEN WATER BASKETBALL· OPEN 
PLUS: SKATING AEROBICS TABLE GAMES RECREATIONAL SWIMMING DIVING FOR DOLLARS MUSIC CONCESSIONS MARCO POLO INFORMAL USE OF ALL FACILmES IN ACC 
HOW TO ENTER A TEAM 
1. 
PICK UP ENTRIES AT NVA OR AAF 

2. 
SIGN UP YOUR TEAM BY NOV. 13 

3. 
ALL FEES GO TO SPECIAL OLYMPICS: 


$2 MINIMUM BID FOR INDIVIDUAL AND DUAL SPORTS $15 MINIMUM BID FOR TEAM SPORTS 
(IF MORE TEAMS ENTER THAN CAN BE FACILATED, TEAMS WILL BE CHOSEN GYAMOUNT BID) 
4. TOURNAMENT SCHEDULES WILL BE POSTED AT NVA AND AAF ON THURSDAY, NOV. 14 
ENTRY DEADLINE: NOV.13 
The Obserwr Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 -page 17 

Briefs 
continued from page /3 
NVA campus all-nighter entry forms are now available at the NVA office in the ACC and at the Angela Athletic Facility. These forms must be turned in by Wednesday. For more inti>rmation call 239-6100. ·The Observer 
The ACC hockey rink is now available for interhall hockey practice. Individual dormitories may reserve late evening ice time for one hour at a rate of S50 per session. For more informa­tion call Tom Carroll between the hours of 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. at 239·5227. ·The Obsen•er 
NVA basketball officials are needed for co-ree basketball, men's and women's interhall, and club basketball. For more information call the NVA office. -The Obsen•er 
An NVA team turkey shoot will be held Nov. 
I H-19 from 4:30 -6:00 p.m. at the stadium rifle range by Gate 14. Teams must be comprised oftwo men and two women, and reserva­tions must he made hy Thursday. To reserve a time or to get more information call the NVA office. · The ObsenJer 
Racquetball enthusiasts who are looking for competition should mail an index card to 30H Walsh Hall by Nov. 22 stating name, address, phone number and skill level. For more in­li>rmation call Michele Debrey at 283-4526. ·The Observer 
Off-Campus basketball needs players for the "A" interhall team. Tryouts will be held Friday and Monday at 4 p.m. in the ACC. Check th.e NVA office in the ACC for correct gym. For more information call Grant Gailius at 2HH-H422. -The Obsen'er 

Freshman defenseman Roy Bemiss joins Irish first team in Dearborn 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
SportsWriter 

When the Notre Dame hockey team takes to the ice Friday and Saturday nights in Dearborn, Mich., freshman defenseman Roy Bemiss will be skating on the first defensive line. 
It's not often that a freshman jumps in to start in any sport. Ifone does, it usually is someone with more than average ability. Irish Head Coach Lefty Smith will testify to Bemiss' abil!tY 
"Roy's a tough player," said Smith. "He's got a good shot and good speed. He's certainly defensive help. It's different for a freshman to come in and play defense due to it's com­plexity. Roy's handled it well. We put him onto the point on the powerplay. He's not afraid to mix it up." 
Bemiss said he has found the col· lege game to be faster and more physical. The latter characteristic is to his liking. 
"It's a little more physical, but I like to play this way," he said. "I'm a defensive defenseman, so I don't look to score often. If I can stop the 
PRICES GOOD THRU 
11-9-85 
POPOV VODKA 
899 1.15 L 

WALKER'S TEN HIGH BOURBON 
9
99 
1.75L 


BEgAMggLEND 
1.75 L 
other forwards from scoring, then 
I've done my job" 
Bemiss, a native of North East, Pa., attended high school at the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn. There he earned three letters in football and track (he was an all-city selection in the javelin throw) in ad· dition to his four hockey letters. As a seniot, he captained his squad while scoring l 5 goals and an equal num· ber of assists. 
The highlight of Bemiss' youth hockey career came while playing midget hockey when he was 16. Bemiss was one ofthe top 50 midget players in the coutry chosen to the Midget Elite Camp run by 1984 Qlympic Hockey Coach Lou Vairo at the Olympic Training Center. 
"It was interesting," recalled Bemiss. "Midget players all over the country tried out, and the 50 best were chosen supposedly. Lou Vairo was in charge with a bunch of col­lege coaches. It was a good camp, very hard, though. 
"(Vairo's) very outspoken," Bemiss said. "He's not what you would call a mellow coach. When he wants something done, you do it." 
Bemiss first caught Smith's atten­tion while playing youth hockey, and Bemiss' coach at the Hotchkiss School is an acquaintance of Smith's from his days in Minnesota. Soon, the two were in contact. 
"Lefty called my coach, and we talked," noted Bemiss. "He was very optimistic about the future of the program. He was out to get good players and develop from there. That was a major reason (for coming to Notre Dame). 
"I was also looking for a place 
where 1could come in and play right 
away." 
Bemiss' chance came sqoner than he might have expected. When senior defenseman and co-captain Bob Thebeau was injured in the second game of a four-game Alaskan roadtrip, Bemiss found himself paired with Mike McNeil on the first defensive line. 
"I was really excited," Bemiss said. "1 expected to play, but not on the first line. I moved to the powerplay, which put a lot of pressure on me. But when you lose your big gun, you have to switch." 
"He got a rough indoctrination in Alaska," recalled Smith, "but I've seen improvement in each game since. He has a tendency to fight himself if he makes a mistake, which we're trying to teach him not to do. Ifhe continues to work hard, he'll be a big addition. 
"He's a hard hitter. He had one 
check Friday (against Kent State) 
that looked good, but the referee 
called him for a penalty. When he 
came back, we told him to keep it 
up." 
Smith said he hopes Bemiss will continue his good play this weekend as the Irish travel to play the Michigan-Dearborn Wolves in Dear· born, where the Irish lost by scores of 5-4 and 6-3 last season. The Irish swept the Wolves at the ACC twice by 5-4 scores. 
Notre Dame will look to improve its 2-4 record with momentum gained in last weekend's sweep of Kent State. Game times Friday and Saturday are at 7:30p.m. 
The Irish return to the ACC next weekend for games against St. Thomas. 

McEnroe wins in Open 
Associated Press 

STOCKHOLM, Sweden -Top-seeded John McEnroe, gunning for an unprecedented fourth Stockholm Open-Scandinavian title, ad­vanced to the quarterfinals of the world's oldest Grand Prix indoor tennis tournament Thursday with a 6-4, 6-1 victory over Juan An­tonio Rodriguez ofSpain. 
Eleven Americans were in the 32-player draw for this f375,000 event, but only McEnroe reached the last eight, as Tim Wilkison was eliminated by third-seeded Stefan Edberg of Sweden, 6-2, 6-2, in an 
earlier center-court match. 

Also, Jakob Hlasek of Switzerland whipped Thierry Tulasne of France, 6-3, 6-3, and fifth-seed Anders Jarryd overcame fellow· Swede Jonas Svensson, 5-7, 6-2, 6-3. 


The Observer is now accepting ap­plications for 
• Assistant Photo Editor 
Duties will include: coordinating Ac­cent photo assignments and darkroom maintenance. 
Applications are due to Pete Laches by 5 p.m. Tuesday, Nov. 12. 


The Observer 


0 

Regional tourney this weekend 
Rodgers leads field hockey team 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sportilrriter 
Field hockey may not be one of the more easily recognized sports at Notre Dame, but the program may well represent "what collegiate sports should really mean," accord­ing to co-captain Mary Rose Rodgers. 
"Even though field hockey has a 
competitive atmosphere," Rodgers 
said, "we really know how to keep 
the spirit and have fun." 
And while defensive specialist Rodgers has fun, the back also plays some strong field hockey. 
"She's had a very good season," Irish Head CoachJill Undenfeld said about her senior co-captain. "She had a slow start, but lately she's really started coming around." 
Rodgers' strength is her "anticipation at interception," ac-

Final flag football playoff contest pits Farley against Pasquerilla East 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
spornwriter 
The interhall flag football season will boil down to one final contest Sunday afternoon at 2 p.m. on the turfofNotre Dame Stadium. 
Farley, which outscored its op­ponents by nearly six to one in regular season play, will face a spirited and talented Pasquerilla East squad, a team which has out­ledgered its opponents by nearly four to one so far. 
The matchup is a classic, taken out of the pages of last year's season, only with roles reversed. 
In 1984, it was P.E. which had rolled over its opponents, going 8-0 to the finals. Marching into the Stadium, it was P.E. which was the undisputed favorite to defeat Farley and win the championship. 
That was not to be the case, however, as Farley upset P.E., taking P.E.'s undefeated season and the championship with it. 
Can Pasquerilla East, 6-2, turn the tables on 8-0 Farley Sunday? 
"We have a good shot," said P.E. quarterback and captain Colleen Donnelly. "Last year, we had beaten Farley in the regular season. We were more confident than we should have been. That will not hap­
penthis year.  
Pasquerilla  East  will  have  to  
overcome  more  than  overcon­ 
fidence this year.  

cording to Lindenfeld. "Her stick­
work and drive have also really 
improved." 
Rodgers, who lettered four years at West Essex High School in New Jersey, seems to prefer talking about the team's successes to her personal success. 
"Overall, the season has been great, especially considering the caliber of the teams we play," she said. "We went up against a lot more Division I teams~ and although we lost, they weren't great defeats. They were close games." 
Lindenfeld echoed Rodgers' words concerning the team's 10-6-2 record. 
"I'm pleased with it," the coach said. "Its already one more loss than last year, but we've played a little bit tougher schools -schools with a lot of scholarship players. We haven't 
"We must improve our pass protection to win on Sunday," Don­nelly said. 
P.E.'s line must be strong because Farley can rightfully brag of the best defense in the league. 
In the regular season, Farley recorded five shutouts in seven con­tests. In the two teams' only matchup this year, Farley blanked P.E., 14-0. 
"The key to the game will be defense," according to . Farley cap­tain Marilu Almeida. "Both squads have outstanding offenses, the deter­mining factor will be the defense." 
The only team this year which had anything close to success against Farley was Lyons. In their regular season matchup, Farley had to come from behind in the final minute to pull out a 14-12 win. 
In the playoffs, Lyons took un­defeated Farley into overtime before being downed, 14-8. 
"Lyons played a different defense than any other team in the league," Almeida said. "We tried to change our offense because of their defensive structure. I beleive this had an adverse effect on us." 
Lyons tallied more points against Farley than all the other teams in the league combined. 
However, it will be P.E. fadng Far­ley in the finals. P.E. began its season scorching hot, winning five in a row before losing its last two, 14-0 to Far­ley and 14-6 to Breen-Phillips. 

lost any games that we shouldn't have lost." 
Notre Dame goes into the Mid­west Regional Tournament this weekend ranked fourth in a six-team field. The team played fifth-ranked Southwest Missouri in Carbondale, Illinois Friday morning and will play the Tourney's No. 1-ranked St. Louis. 
Other pairings over the weekend 
will depend on game results. 
Other teams at the tournament 
are Eastern Kentucky, Louisville, 
and host Southern Illinois. 
"We haven't played any of the teams at the tournament," Linden­feld admitted, "but we've done com-· paratively the same against the schools we've both played. We're in great shape to take the tourney." 
Rodgers also seems optimistic about the team's chances. "I'm really getting psyched up," she said. "We're really psyched up." 
In the playoffs, P.E. won a see-saw contest over Pasquerilla West, 26­22. 
Pasquerilla East's season statistics ~e impressive, averaging 20 points on offense while yielding only eight. 
"Our biggest plus is our ex­perience on offense. This has helped us all year and will hopefully help us Sunday," said Donnelly. "We also had great fan support for the playoff game. Our entire team is ap­preciative ofthe support ofour fans. We hope that they are at the stadium in full force Sunday afternoon." 
Asked if her team's 14·0 win over 
P.E. would have the effect of making her team overconfident, Farley's Al­meida said, "I think the overtime scare against Lyons has put us in our place. We know it is going to be a tough game. 
"Our versatility is a big plus. We can throw and run effectively. We also have a good variety ofplays." 
Help the 
dp 
March of Dimes Fight Birth Defects 
Senior co-captain Mary Rose Rodgers wt/1 lead the Irish field hockey team to the Midwest Regional Tournament this weekend. Kathleen McKernan provides a profile ofRodgers in her story at left. 
SUNSHINE PRDMDTIDN PRESENTS: 
JOHN COUGAR 
MELLENCAMP THE SCARECROW TOUR 
Saturday. Nav•mb•rt&. B:DDpm Natr• Dam• A.C.C. All••at• r•••rv•dI t4.SD 
tickets available at the ACC Box Ofllce, area Sears, Robertson's, Elkart Truth J.R.'s Music Shop (La Porte), St. Joseph Bank (Main Ofllce) Record World (Goshen) and Music ftlagic(Benton Harbor) 

SKI COLORADO 
AT TH£ END OF Christmas Break 
FRIDAY NITE: Get Psyched for ... OLE MISSIIf 
* lusurloiU mountain-top condominiums 
* priiHite II•Itil elu• lneludln-= Indoor ~1, Jaeussl, •una, r•~fl•et••ll 
* 
llfNie•etsat Vall (aJ Copper Jlountaln{JJ, JC~stone (ZJ *deluH motor e..ell traJUportatlon round trip 

from tile e......oa..,.will pie• ~· •• on tile..,.. to Colorado. 

* 
fr•sa.llason for ...lnners *optlonaiUHofrent..·e•r 


.,,.,,••,,.D,. ~
a•t~ilaU.

* tOJMJuallt» rental•••·• .,......e 
m.fh.J.J~~ m!1'46""--. 9',.,..,.. ~,.,.....,

Cost$ 349.00 
~.~·.te~. ~~I TS.OO 

----------....-~~----~---­
T0 day_________________ ag~e-1._9
w_e_e_k_en_d_E_d_i.ti_o_n_._N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_s_-..9..._1_9_8_5_-..p.. 

Bloom County 

Zeto 


Thursday's Solution 

'S'W A'"GIR A M p 
-l0 R E U S 0 
E R R 

G 0 A l  s  
T A M E  E l I E  0 G 0 E N  
E C 0 N  P E N ~  W E A V E  
POSTPON~.R  !i~!-~  

A S S E R T A l 0 N ~­
S H A M E S l 0 U G H I N G p ARE. c u 
N E A I~N 8 0 NE s A s 
r uP •o 
c Ap
S A T Y R A l T A R S s H E 1 8 s A1111 s N o w­

'ji~'fT'Y 'TRAVERSED 
ENROL SOLIIINRO 
E N E R 0 E V E l T A l l 
R A M 0 N N E S S E P E E 
44 Distinctive 54 Beginning periods 55 Metal bar 
46 Plow pioneer 56 Forego 
48 Attu natives 60 Amerlnd 
51 Poetic times 63 Springtime 
52 Hunterln 64 Charlemagne's the sky domain: abbr. 53 Ruth's In-law 65 Feather stlckum 

Berke Breathed Th(~ Far Side Gary Larson 
Kevin Walsh 
Tempers flare when Professor Carlson and Lazzell, working independently, ironically set their time 
ACROSS 1 Spinach-like 
plant 6 Fleur-de·­9 Crude men 
13 Indian city 14 Plndarlcs 16 Neglect 17 Neglectful 
of duty 19 Spouse 20 Words for 
Brutus 21 Memorabilia 22 Cigar ending 23 Aa 25 Charge 28 -was saying 29 Ibsen role 30 Hanoi holiday 31 Miles­34 Barn bedding 38 Lugged 39 High hill 41 Sinister actor 43 Della of song 45 Rhythmic 
patterns 47 -tree 
(at bay) 49 Zulder­50 Cloche 51 Take over 
completely 58 Rouse 57 Algerian city 58 Time period: 
abbr. 59 Horse color 61 Bravo and 
Grande 62 Snug jacket 66 Alaskan port 67 Where Greeks 
met 68 -barrel 
(In a fix) 69 Small tantrum 70 Plggery 71 Snlggler 
DOWN 1 Peculiar 2 Female ruff 3 Ease 4 Broadway's 
Rivera 
Campus 
FRIDAY NOV. 8 
•12:15 
P.M.· 1:00 P.M.-Lecture, "Racism in America: Lingering Effects on Children's Intel­ligence", Professor John Borkowski, Unlver· sity of Notre Dame, Room 124 Center for Social Concerns 

•6:30 
P.M. -Christian Fellowship Meeting, library Lounge, Sponsored by ICHTHUS 

•7:00 
P.M.· Pep Rally, Stepan Center 

•7:00 
P.M. · Egyptian Film Series, "Never 


'cry My Love", ETS Theater, Sponsored by Mediterranean/Middle East Concentration In Anthropology 
•7:00, 
9:00 and 11:00 P.M. · Movie, "Ghostbusters", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S1.50 

•7:00-2:00 
A.M. · Banquet, Dance, Interna­tional Students Organization Chatauqua Bal­lroom, LaFortune Dinner and Dance S5, Dance only, S 1 Dance at 9:30 

•7:30 
P.M. & 9:30 P.M. · Friday Night Film Series "Bob Le Flambeur", Annenberg Auditorium 


machines to identical coordinates. 
•9:30 P.M. · 12:30 P.M. -United Way Dance, South Dining Hall, Sponsored by The Junior Class, S1.00 
SATIJRDAYNOV.9 
•7:00, 9:00 and 11:00 P.M. · Movie, "Ghostbusters", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S1.~0 
SUNDAY NOV. tO 

•II
:00 A.M. -Swim Meet, Men's Blue vs. Gold lntrasquad Meet, Rolfs Aquatic Center 

•12:00 
P.M. · 8:00 P.M. · Junior Class Retreat, Mishawaka Res., Sponsored by The 

•8:00 
P.M. -Concert, Notre Dame Chorale Fall Concert, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored 


Junior Class  
•7:00  P.M.  Meeting,  Hayes-H ealy,  
Sponsored  by  AIESEC,  Come  meet  the  
trainees!  

by Department of Music 
Att Rtghts Reserved 
5 Cue 6 Rawls of music 7 Paragon 8 Stage trumpet 
sound 
9 Sky traveler 10 Fine violin 11 Same as above 12 Dutch artist 15 Puts on 18 Having status 
of a sort 23 Final 24 Fur trader 26 "-we forget" 27 Br. statesman 29 Totals 32 Society page 
word 33 Ad -com· 
mlttee 35 Ely or Howard 36 Gabriel's rank 37 Inflict as 
havoc· 40 Tease 42 Punta del ­
Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Chili with Fixings Southern Fried Chicken Pork IUblets with Barbeque Sauce Shrimp Creole 
:Tv Tonight 
8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 
16 Knight Rider 
22 The Twilight Zone 
28 Webster 
34 Washington Week In Review 
28 Mr. Belvedere 
34 Wall Street Week 
46 Father Michael Manning 
Saint Mary's  
Patty Melt  
Batter Fried Fish  
Swedish Crepes  
9:00P.M.  16  Misfits ofScience  
22  Dallas  
28  Dlft'rent Strokes  
34 46  Great Performances: Gospel At Colonus Lcsca Alive  
9:30P.M.  28  Benson  

The 


A giftfor someone who has everything 277-7026 GIVE A SUNTAN 
Gift Certificate• AvaUable Booth• and Bed• AvaUable 
----------------------------.---------------------­
Weekend Edition, November 8-9, 1985 -page 20
S~orts 
-~ --~------------~----· 


Sophomore Andrysiak creates pronunciation, quarterback questions 
By MARlY BURNS 
AssistantSports Editor 
Quick. Which Notre Dame foot­ball player replaced Student Body President Bill Healy this week as the biggest topic of conversation in the dining halls? 
Which Notre Dame football 
player might soon be able to replace 
Student Body President Bill Healy, 
period? 
With a few more performances like last week, sophomore quarter­back Terry Andrysiak might make this admittedly far-fetched idea seem plausible. Although a bit premature, fans who witnessed the 6-1, lSI-pounder's display in last week's 41-1 7 Irish demolition of Navy immediately begantalking about his future. 
In their talking, the name Andrysiak was spit out of mouths in almost as many ways as the tofu vegetables. For the record, it's pronounced ANN-druh-zack. 
The mispronunciations of the 
name can be expected, however, be­
cause Andrysiak is just starting to 
play after spending last season as a 
third-string quarterback. Eventually, 
though, it appears that everyone will 
know his name. Indeed, it already 
has been a sudden and intense rise to 
fame for the right-hander from Allen 
Park, Mich., who accepts the atten­
tion with as much poise as he shows 
on the turf. 
"I didn't think it would all come 
this fast and this early," admits 
Andrysiak. "Hopefully, it's not going 
to give me a big head. I also hope 
that I don't get humbled too much, 
either, though. It's really a team 
thing, and you just have to stick with 
the team." 
Notre Dame Head Coach Gerry Faust did not stick with starting quarterback Steve Beuerlein last week against the Midshipmen, in­serting Andrysiak into the game late in the first quarter. Andrysiak, who had been waiting for a real chance to prove himselfsince last spring when he asserted himself as the second­string passer, hit 11-of-1 7 passes for 195 yards and a touchdown. This set up a sticky situation for Irish coaches and a lot ofstudent support for the young signal-caller. 
"A lot of things went right for Terry last week," said Irish quaner-' back coach Ron Hudson. "He threw fairly well, but he made some mistakes which might catch up with him. Defenses are eventually going to figure him out and then he'll have to make decisions on the field. That will be the true test." 
With the crowd-pleasing perfor­mance, Andrysiak also set the na­tional spotlight on the issue ,of who is going to start for the Irish this week against Mississippi. Although he admittedly wants to play as much as possible, Andrysiak says he under­stands the situation. The new com­petition between himself and Beuerlein, both of whom are resi­dents of Sorin Hall, has remained professional. 
"The competition is friendly," says Andrysiak. "All the attention bothers you because you don't want to create a controversy." 
"Every quarterback thinks he's better than the others and that's good," says Hudson. "Competition helps them to be better. Thus far the competition has been very positive." 
see ANDRYSIAK, page 14 


Sophomore quarterback Terry Andrysiak bad a shining perfor­mance against Navy last week under the ltgbts, creating questions about the status of starting quarterback Steve Beuerletn. jeff Blumb discusses the quarterback situation in his column below, andMarty Burns introducesAndrysiak in his story at left. 
Notre Dame volleyball blows away Valparaiso 
By CHUCK EHRMAN 
SportSWriter 
Thursday night's volleyball match between Notre Dame and Valparaiso probably will not go down in vol­leyball lore as the greatest of con­tests. 
It was no nail-biter at the Athletic and Convocation Center, and there was no escaping with victory by the skin of the teeth. It was more like taking candy from a baby as the Irish dominated, destroyed and ot­herwise picked apart a puttering Val­paraiso £earn that occupies the lowest rung of the volleyball ladder, sporting a record of 4-12. 
The Irish took the match in straight games, l 5-1, I 5-6, 15-4. 
"What I'm most happy with," said Irish Head Coach Art Lambert, "is that for the first time this year we didn't play down to the other team's level." 
Zanette Bennett set the tone of the match right from the start with a pair ofkills that helped the Irish grab the serve in the opening game. From then on it was Easy Street for the Irish. 
With the entire team setting, spiking, passing and playing defense well, there was nothing much Val­paraiso could do except take it. 
Thursday night also marked the return of senior captain Mary Mcl..aughlan to the starting ranks after suffering a broken finger earlier in the season. 
Mcl..aughlan most definately will be needed Tuesday when the Irish face Purdue in the ACC. Purdue is ranked 16th in the latest polls, so the match is sure to be a war for the Irish, now 10-16 with a 6-2 con­ference mark. 

Bowl game now a possibility for two-quarterback Irish 
Gerry Faust has come under fire many times as Notre Dame football coach for his overall record and, at times, for the miserable play ofhis team. But nothing should be taken away from the way the Irish have played over the course of the last several weeks. 
While it is impossible to change the amount of success (or lack thereof) which Faust has experienced at Notre Dame, the Irish have found a way to reverse their fortunes following a 1-3 stan. After the Air Force loss, which sent player morale to its lowest in years, not many people would have given Notre Dame a chance of reaching 5-3. But now the Irish face that possibility as they prepare to meet Mississippi, a team they should have no trouble han­dling. 
Talk of Notre Dame going 8-3 and playing in a major bowl game might be just a tad premature, but there is not­hing wrong with Irish fans believing it will happen. It's not probable, but stranger things have happened. 
Notre Dame already has been mentioned as a possibility 

Jeff Blumb 
Sports Editor 

for the Gator and Cherry Bowls. The Cherry Bowl, un­doubtedly, can be ruled out. Even with the game's close proximity(Pontiac, Mich.), the fact that it is played on Dec. 21 is enough to scare University officials away. That, of course, is much too close to the final exam period. 
The Gator certainly would be more appealing, and not only because ofits Dec. 30 date. The fact that it is played in jacksonville, Fla., might have something to do with its popularity. 
Bowls aside, the Irish have their work cut out for them the next·few weeks. Notre Dame must guard against a let­down with No. 2 Penn State looming on the horizon next week. Still, even though the Irish may not win by as much as some people are predicting, they should win. 
There is still the question as to who will start as the Irish quarterback. Since stating that Steve Beuerlein was the starter immediately after last week's win over Navy, Faust has been mum on the subject all week, saying that either Beuerlein or Terry Andrysiak could start. 
Both Beuerlein and Andrysiak are good quarterbacks, and whichever one does end up starting should do well. Beuerlein has the benefit of experience, while Andrysiak has the momentum ofhis recently found success. 
An argument could be made for either case, but the bot-. tom line is that it's not going to matter a whole lot this week. The deci,sion should be made with next week in mind, though. If the Irish coaches want to start Beuerlein against Penn State, then he should be in there to get back on track. At the same time, if they want to start Andrysiak against the Lions, then he should play Saturday if for not­hing other than game experience. 










