
Student Senate -page 3 


VOL XIX, NO. 82 thl' indl'pl'ndl'nt ~tudl'nt Ill'\\ ~papl'r ~lT\ ing notrt dame and .~aint man·~ TUESDAY,JANUARY29, 1985 

Notre Dame student arrested in Friday morning raid of Nickie's 
Although seven people were plea, according to Badics. All of
By CAROL CAMP 
SentorSkl/J Reporter ticketed, four were taken to the the students were charged with East Sector police station, be­violation of state liquor law, South Bend police arrested cause they did not have any form being a minor in a tavern. Ifdley Notre Dame junior Paul Mclean ofidentification with them. Upon plead guilty they will receive a and ticketed six other Notre arriving at the police station, the fine, of approximately S50, Dame and Saint Mary's students students were positively identi­which will include court costs. If when they raided Nickie's, 928 fied. They were then driven back they plead not guilty they will be 
N. Eddy St., last Friday morning. to the Five Corners area by police assigned a court date. officers and released. 
The students violated Indiana Ueutenant Richard Badics of McLean was charged with liquor laws, because they were the South Bend Police Depart­being a minor in a tavern, which minors who were frequenting a ment said he told those he is in violation ofstate liquor laws, tavern, according to the police ticketed, "We'll ticket you and and possession of a false ID with report. Under state law, minors we'll let you go." He emphasized intent to purchase alcohol. He who enter bars can be fined S50, that when someone receives a was arrested at 2:20 Friday mor­while those who are actually ticket he cannot pay the fine at ning. McLean was taken to the seen consuming alcohol on the that time. CountyJail at 129 South Main St., premises are ticketed and The students have five South Bend. He arrived there at charged with a Class C mis­working days to appear at the 
see NICKlE,, page 3
demeanor. county clerk's office and enter a out a midsemester break. But at the University of Virginia, where the first vacation of the school year is Thanksgiving weekend, students are demanding an October breakfor the sake oftheir mental health. 
University ofVirginia senior Steve Milo, chairman ofStudents for a Fall Break, said there is evidence that an October break could be a psycho­logical boon to exhausted students tense from midterm exams: "It's a problem of stress...the Student Health Center has evidence that the number of psychiatric problems on campus is highest in October." 
Milo said the suicides ofthree stu­dents last October have resulted in increased student support for a break. 
The Charlottesville campus is divided on the issue of the break. While a poll demonstrated that 85 percent ofthe students support a fall break, many older faculty members and administrators oppose the idea. 
Milo said that the Dean of Stu­dents "has gone on record against the break." Presently, the University director of the university's Student Health Center. "We see more people in October with stress-related com­plaints than in any other month," said Keeling, who has testified to stu­dent need of a break before the ad­ministration. "The nature of the complaints are more severe and ur­gent than at any other time," he said. 
Among the problems Keeling cited were extreme depression, fatigue, and "not very adaptive be­havior," such as going for long peri­ods of time without food or sleep. A midsemester break, Keeling said, would help relieve "the pressure parents and faculty put on students, as well as the pressure students put on themselves." 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's health personnel expressed mixed feelings on the necessity of the break. "Since there has always been a fall break while I've been here, I can't tell whether it helps or nQ!," said Director of Saint Mary's Health Services Gloria Chelminiak. 

Class of '87 wants pope at graduation 
ByANDRE mEISEN extend the invitation when the op­portunity arises. Hesburgh was
NewsSkl/J 
recently in Rome from jan.13-22, Members of the Sophomore Advi­
but it is not known if he actually sory Council are already thinking invited the Pope during that time. 
about a possible speaker for their commencement in 1987. Their Although they realize the chances choice: Pope john Paul II. of the Pope accepting their invita­
josh Golub, Sorin Hall's represen­tion are very slim, both Golub and tative on the S.A.C., explained in his Domagalski emphasized that having written proposal to the council how the Pope as commencement speaker 
he came up with the idea: "At the in 1987 would coincide nicely with 
end of last year, during all the dis­the retirement of Hesburgh, which ­gruntlement over the choice of is scheduled to be announced on Lorette Ruppe as the commence­May 9, 1987. The commencement 
ment speaker, I began thinking of exercises in 1987 will be Hesburgh's whom I would like as the key-note last public function as president of speaker at our graduation in May of the University. 1987...and decided on one whom I "The Pope would therefore thought would be the supreme greatly add to the pomp and circum­choice: the Pope." stance surrounding the stepping 
down ofFather Hesburgh, and more 
So Golub proposed that the soph­than exemplify the religious and omore class extend a formal invita­humanitarian ideals for which Fa­tion to the Pope to be the featured ther Hesburgh has stood during the speaker at their commencement ex­four decades he has guided this Uni­ercises. In addition, Golub sugges­versity," wrote Golub in the pro­ted that University President Father posal. Domagalski added that the Theodore Hesburgh, be asked "to presence of the Pope would "help tender the invitation in the name of celebrate what Hesburgh has done himself and the University, for he is for Catholic education in America." surely on closer terms with john Paul than we are." The unusual aspect of the sopho­
Golub made the proposal in mid­more's situation is that they initiated November to the S.A.C., and shortly the process so early--a process nor­afterward he and the four elected mally undertaken at the end of 
S.A.C. officials met with Hesburgh to junior year or the beginning of the discuss the idea. senior year. 
According to Jim Domagalski, "We realize that the final decision president of the S.A.C., Hesburgh is up to Father Hesburgh, but we was not negative about the idea and demonstrated that we are sincere by seemed pleasantly surprised that the beginning so early; we presented sophomores were taking the initia­our idea and he responded tive so far in advance. But Hesburgh positively--now it is more or less up emphasized that the Pope was very to him," Domagalski said. "The 
busy and the chances of his accept­worst that can happen," Golub said, ing the invitation were slim. "is that we will receive a very polite refusal." 
In conversation last Wednesday Normally Hesburgh asks the night with Bob Vonderheide, editor­graduating class, as well as other in-chiefof1be Obseroer on the same groups and governing bodies, to topic, Hesburgh said that the Pope submit a list of speakers they think wouldn't be able to come because would be appropriate; from these "he is living like there is no tomor­lists a final choice is made. Speakers row." Also, the Pope said the next in the recent past have included time he comes to the U.S. he would Chicago Archbishop joseph Bernar­have to go to the West Coast, since din, former Canadian Prime Minister he hasn't been there yet. Pierre Trudeau and President 
Nevertheless, Hesburgh agreed to Reagan. 
His Holiness Pope john Paul II inspects some photos ofclergy and religious ofChina's National Association ofPatriotic Catholics taken by Univer-
ByKATHRYN HUMM 
NewsSklff 
john Duggan, president of Saint Mary's, recently announced the formation of the Saint Mary's Col­lege Accreditation Self-Study Steer­ing Committee. 
The purpose of the committee is to conduct a self-evaluation ofSaint Mary's in accordance with the guidelines established by The North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, an accreditation body. 
Donald Horning, professor of sociology at Saint Mary's and chair­man ofthe committee, said the eval­uation will involve all components of the Saint Mary's community. Every office, department, council, committee, and administration unit will be asked to contribute. 
In addition, members of the Saint Mary's community-administration, faculty, students, support staJf and alumniwill be asked to contribute to the evaluation process. 
In order to insure the evaluation 
of all components, the committee's 
responsibilities have been grouped 
into five basic task force areas. These 
are: Administrative, Academic, Stu­
dent Aifairs, Governance, and Cor­
porate Board/Board of Regents. 
Each department and administrative 
unit is the responsibility ofa particu­
lar task force area. 
"The self-study process will focus 

Students want a break 
By DIANNE MCBRIEN Calendar Committee is reviewing Skl/JReporter the possibilityofa four-day weekend following midterms. Most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's SFAFB is receiving professional students cannot imagine a fall with­support from Dr. Richard Keeling, 
·"' I

Observer FUe l'tlo<o 
sityPresident Father Theodore Hesburgh. Pope john Paul II saw the photos during a recent meeting in thepapa/library in the Vatican. 



Saint Mary's starts self-evaluation 

on four elements: the goals of the college, with particular attention on how each component contributes to the accomplishment ofthese; there­sources the college brings to bear on these goals; and the prospects for future achievement of the goals," said Horning. 
All Saint Mary's students received a letter explaining the committee and its purpose shortly after they returned this semester. 
see EVALUATION, page 3 

----------------------------------~------------------------·---·-------------------~~-----------­

The Observer 



In Brief 

Bernhard GoetZstiii may be prosecuted for the shoot­ing offour young men in the New York subway. A federal prosecutor said yesterday he will meet with the Rev. AI Sharpton, a black ac­tivist, who wants the federal government to use civil rights laws to prosecute Goetz, but he said his office may not be able to play any role in the case. A civil rights prosecution probably would require proof that the shootings were racially motivated, that there was a conspiracy to violate someone's rights or that there was wrongdoing by a public official acting "under color of law." -AP 
A majority of OPEC oil ministers have informally endorsed a cut in the cartel's S29-a-barrel base price, sources say. But dissenters led by Iran and Algeria could thwart any formal agree­ment. lbe Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries called yesterday's meeting as part of its efforts to prevent prices from col­lapsing under the pressure of diminished oil demand, especially by the United States and Western Europe, and aggressive competition from Britain and other non-OPEC petroleum producers. -AP 
Iraq announced yesterday that 4o,ooo of its soldiers supported by air and artillery launched the first Iraqi ground offensive across Iranian lines in nearly three years, and "occupied enemy positions." Iran said the Iraqi attack was "totally crushed." A war communique released by the General Command of the Iraqi Armed Forces said soldiers acting on the orders ofPresident Saddam Hussein took part in the attack Sunday evening and before dawn yesterday In the southern sector of the 700-mile-longfront. -AP 
Of Interest 

The Career and Placement Services of­fice Is sponsoring an Executive-in-Residence series this semester. William DeSana, manager of human resources, Owen-Illinois, Inc., will visit the office on Wednesday, Feb. 6. This visit is for those stu­dents, especially sophomores and juniors, interested in speaking with DeSana on an individualized, one-on-one basis about different career options and their personal job search. Sign-ups will take place in Career and Placement Services (lower level, Memorial library) through this lbursday. -The Observer 
Upcoming campus election candidates mu~t attend an informational meeting tonight. At 7, student body presi­dent candidates wiii meet in the LaFortune little Theater, and at 8 student senate candidates will meet In the same location. -The Observer 
'fhe Senior ClasS is sponsoring a class Mass today at 
5: 1 5 in Sacred Heart Church. Seniors are asked to sit in the front left pews. -The Observer 
Disadvantaged pre-schoolers will be helped by Head Start volunteers. Students interested in signing up to help can do so at the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's tonight at 7. ­
The Observer 

Interested in NO history? Undergraduate and graduate students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are eligible to participate in the annual essay contest sponsored by the Committee on the History of the University. An essay ofany length dealing with the history ofNotre Dame or Saint Mary's is eligible for the S50 prize. Entries should be sent to Philip Gleason, department of history, Notre Dame, by April 19. -The Observer 

Weather 

Continuing cloudy today with a 20 percent chance of light snow toward eve­ning. High In the mid 20s. Tonight and tomor­row, a 70 percent chance of light snow. Low tonight in the mid and upper teens. High tomor­row in the middle and upper 20s. -AP 


The Observer 
lbe O~rvrr (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe O~rvrr is published by the students of the Unlver:;ity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas<'d for 130 pcr year ( JlO per se· mestcr) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46~56. 
lbe Observer is a member of lbe A.~soclated Press. All reproduction righb are reserved. 
Design Editor.............................. Paul Bruce Design Assistant ........................ Anne Long LayoutS~ ........... Melissa Warnke, Alice Kroeger, Becky Gunderman, Mark 
Mclaughlin,Jane Ann Reidford Typesetters..... Mary Ellen Harring to~ and 
Maggie Mergenthaler News Editor ............................... Mark Potter Copy Editor..................................Frank Upo Sports Copy Editor .................. Mary Sieger VIewpoint Layout..................... Paul Bruce VIewpoint Copy Editor......... Cindy Boyle Features Copy Editor ............ Teresa Keefe Features Layout..... Catherine Coffey and 
Andi Schnuck NIJ IJay Edttar ........................ Aimee Storin AdDesign.. Anne Marie Furleigh and Usa 

Dickinson Photographer ............... Chaitanya Panchal 
Tuesday,January 29, 1985-page 2 



Best gimmick of all is good food 
"They totally ignore the fact that they finally have somewhat organized lines in the serving area, and then they screw everything up by putting all these stupid buffets in." 
--A Disgruntled Notre Dame student 
I don't like dining hall dinners, and I will skip them every chance I get. 
Sure, it bothers me. But only when I really think about it and realize that it's all paid for. Otherwise noth­ing bothers me, not the thought of all the work that went into preparation, not the fact that I am snubbing an award-winning operation, and not the fear that maybe, just maybe, I might be missing something good. Nothing. 
I used to like them, mind you, but that's because the enjoyment of consumables rises directly in proportion to the hunger involved. Ofcourse being at Notre Dame has helped me to mature ever so much, and so I have learned w control my 


Marc Ramirez 
Assistant News Editor 
your rice is gonna be cold anyway." 
"It was extremely, horribly organized. They brought out this hugepiece ofmeat, and I didn't know what it was. I asked them, and they said it waspig." 
With the advent ofTheme Nights they hath created a monster. These were good ideas that got out ofcontrol, good ideas which did have potential. I did enjoy some of the various ethnic food nights, although I can't remem­
ber which. You could tell


some cereal instead, but they bid it all. All I could find were more pig beads. They bad them all over the place." 
Okay, so maybe once out 
of every 25 times I'll consider dinner a worthwhile 
prospect, but the other 96 percent of the time I refuse 
to queue up. I will not wait In line for Pasta, I will not 
wait in line for Seafood Quiche, and I absolutely refuse 
to wait in line for Hungarian Noodle Bake. I will, 
however, wait in line for lunch, because I can always 
count on the Deli. 
But dinner poses problems for me, and I imagine it 
does for a lot of other people, too. And that's why 
Theme Nights were invented. 
Theme Nights only make it worse, though. They 
create longer lines. 
"I waited in linefor about I 0 minutes andI got this plate of rice. Then I waited in ltne for another I 5 minutes andgot to the meat. Butthey haveall this rice. And then they have this boat full of all this ice. My argument is, why don't they justput the rice into the boat on the ice, because by the timeyou get to the boat 

hunger for certain hours, the staff was really striving say, from 4 to 7 p.m. or so. I for authenticity, though. won't even eat salad. In fact, But sometimes authen­I rarely set foot inside the ticity can go a bit too far dining hall after 2 p.m. I with an unsuspecting gen­never know what I might eral public. find. 
"They bad these three pigs 

"I went to dinner and and they were in there rip­there was thispig bead with ping up the pigs. It was an apple in its mouth. It raunchy. I went to get des­grossed me out. So I decided sert, and they were still to blow it off and go get 
"They were mutilating the pigs. It was like 'lord of the Flies."' 
What this major issue 

comes down to is, although I will forever dread the thought of dining hall dinners, Theme Nights could be the bright spots in all the dreari­ness. But they've got to understand: All I care about is getting some good food. I'll wait in line for that. No more Eiffel Towers, or pinatas, or South Pacific decor. Please. 
Just good food. 

"I've bad it with these Theme Nights. I mean, thefirst thing I saw when I got in there was this deadpig with its mouth open. It was disgusting. They bad these stupid little buts everywhere, and a big boat in the middle with watermelon and stuff Don't they under­stand? I don't careaboutbuts and boats. I just want to be nourished." 


CANCER.
NOT


KNOWING 
THE RISKS 
IS YOUR 

GREATEST 
RISK. 
~~D!!"""O~YO~U"'!""R~U~N,...~ 
: with your : 
: "WALKMAN?" : 
Now you can protect your invest-! ment and nd yourself of the annoy-o ances: tangled cords. inaccessble o controls from backpacks o• DOC-: kets and the "bounce" associated • w1th belts or waist clips •

• ••
. 
•.. • • •• 
.
• 
Sound-PAK is a zippered. Insulated.: well-podded. canvas "PAK" w1th o elasticized strops thai hold your • portable stereo securely to the top: of your chest dunng all sperts" : 
SOUND-PAK : ftts stereos up to 4'x5' Blue. Red oro Green Adjustable Send $17.95 plus • $1 pest Ia. Sound-PAK. Box 66.; Williston. VT 05495 o 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEEII! : 


Put your degree to work where it can do a world of good. 
Your first job after graduation should offer you more than just a paycheck. We can offer you an-experience that lasts a lifetime. 
Working together with people in a different culture is something you'll never forget. It's a learning experience everyone can benefit from. 
In Science or Engineering, Education, Agricul­ture, or Health, Peace Corps projects in de­veloping countries around the world are bringing help where it's needed. 
If you're graduating this year, look into a uni­que opportunity to put your degree to work where it can do a world of good. Look into Peace Corps. 
Register now Cor interviews Feb 6 &7th in the Career (j PLuming Services Office 
The Observer 
Ice Sculpture 
Two passerbys pause by an ice sculpture ofa reindeer Sunday at Haroard University's Cambridge, Mass., campus. Tbe sculpture was part ofthe University's Winterfest activities. 
CARNIVAL SALE 
Sweaters and accessories 25%-40% oft earrings. bracelets & resortwear 25% off 
Mon.-Sat. 10-6 step into the Richness ofthe Andes at: JOOCPntn·Friday 10-9 
Orchid Lane 
Mishawaka \

Sunday 12-5 
! JOHN MARSHALL
•
! LAW SCHOOL 
• 1393 Peachtree ,Rt., N.E. Atlanta, GA 30309 
! APPLICATIONS TAKEN NOW ·
.
:February, June, September Admissions : Day or Evening Classes
: 
• John Marshall Law School admits without regard : to national or ethnic origin
•
; APPROVED FOR VETERANS ; Graduation from John Marshall meets the
•
• requirementsfor admission to the Bar
•
: Examination in Q_eorgia and Indiana ONLY : (404)872-3593 


i
•
A;~/\1 i 
·-;···<· • 1 
~·l:"··t.ri
·• 
: 
...,~..... :; • 
•: 
:• 
: :• : 

Tuesday,January 29, 1985-page 3 
KOC receives support from Senate 
By MIKE MRLEN 
SentorStQ/fReporter 
The Knights ofColumbus, looking for University permission for their proposed hall rental plan, received unanimous support at last night's Student Senate meeting. 
Tom Duffy, Knights of Columbus liaison and special projects commis­sioner, said the resolution "was hung up last year because we wanted to use alcohol." The current proposal forbids alcohol in the building, and Duffy said this provi­sion was important in preliminary talks with the administration. 
The proposed contracf''is like a party-room contract," he said add­ing "the facilities are for groups that are in need ofspace." 
In order to use the hall, interested groups would first post a security deposit of SIOO and pay S25 for every 50 people in attendance. Then the group would contact campus se­curity and pay for the use ofsecurity guards -about SSO for every 50 people. 
Some senate members thought four security guards for 200 people more than enough, but Duffy responded "if there are too many guards, we may renegotiate" later in the semester. He added, "John Goldrick (associate vice president for residence life) was worried about security." 
Student Senator Javier Oliva re­ported the success ofthe proposal to place cars in one parking lot over Christmas break. "Many people took advantage ofit," he said, adding "no reports of vandalism have been given." 
Student Body Treasurer AI Novas issued the fiscal report of the Stu­dent Activities Board for the first se­mester. He said most departments are on budget, although musical en­tertainment has already spent their entire budget for the year. "The new wave groups didn't go over as well as expected, and they were not well at­tended," Novas said. Therefore campus entertainment will sponsor the year's last concert, he said. 

Student Senator Pat Browne, in response to the recent wave of criticism which the Notre Dame Credit Union has received, gave a report on the status of some contro­versial policies. He said the 21-day­hold on out-of-state checks was necessary because "it might take as long as five weeks for a bounced check to come back." 
He added, however, "if your ac­count Is good, you can go to mem­ber services and have your account 'flagged.' " This enables one to bypass the hold, and Browne said more than one-halfthe members are eligible for this status. 

Boards discuss chapel renovations 
ByANNE GALLAGHER 
Sentor SIQ/fReporter 
Leaders ofa group examiningpos­sible renovations of chapels at Saint Mary's have assured government leaders that students will have a say in any changes to the four chapels. 
At last night's combined meeting of the Board of Governance and the Programming Board, Mary Feeley, chairwoman of the chapel renova­tion committee, said "Our task is not to renovate -our task is to come up with a renovation that the commu­nity will be pleased with. The one decision we've made is that we want to he~ from you: the faculty, resi­dent advisors, sisters and especially, the students." 
The committee, composed ofstu­dents, staff and consultants, is ex­amining the prayer needs of the community and eventually will rec­ommend either to renovate or preserve the current dormitory chapels, according to Feeley. 
Although the renovations prob­ably will not begin for more than a year, interest in developing the LeMans and Holy Cross chapels has been growing. 
"The buildings are servants of the people," said Barbara Searle, the liturgical consultant for the commit­tee. "If they aren't, they become 


Keenan Revue Ticket Distribution 
Chautauqua Ballroom Today 

4:30 

2 Tickets per person 
After your lastexam, what toughquestions will you stillbe fadng? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers· One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
Contact: Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 • 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 283-6385 

mere museums." 
Hoping to allay students fears about losing the traditional interiors of Saint Mary's chapels, Searle showed slides of other renovations to churches and chapels, many similar in design to those at the Col­lege. She pointed out that a mix be­tween traditional and post-Vatican U architecture can add comfon and a feeling of community in a liturgical experience. 
Feeley emphasized that," 'We' as a community are going to renovate, and we have to decide what those things are thatwe are lookingfor ina chapel, what kind ofspace helps you pray." 
Nickie's 
continuedfrom page 1 
2:30 a.m. and was released on a cash bond of 550 at 3:45 a.m. 
IfMcLean is found guilty ofthe charges he faces a maximum jail term of 60 days in the county jail as well as a maximum fine of 
ssoo. 
No legal action will be taken against Nickle's until the Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Commission reviews the police repon, Badics said. 
Both McLean and Nickle's management refused to com­ment on the incident. 
Evaluation 
continuedfrom page 1 
Sophomore and senior Saint Mary's students, plus those who are members of the numerous councils. and committees of the college, will 
participate in this evaluation. In late February, all sophomores 
, and seniors will be asked to com­plete a questionnaire prepared by the task force on Student A1fairs. The reason for choosing sop­homores and seniors for the ques­tionnaire is because sophomores have just entered classes in their major, and seniors are preparing to end their studies in their major, said Horning. Horning said the committee wants everyone involved to "focus on the question: Is there anything we can do to improve Saint Mary's as an institution? We want students to be involved in this process. This is their opportunity to voice their opinions and to insure a sound future for Saint Mary's." Members of the committee were chosentorepresentthevariouscon­stituencies and disciplinary perspectives of the college commu­nity. 
The self-study process will take place duringSpring 1985. The Steer­ing Committee's report will be sub­mitted prior to Spring 1986, when the North Central SiteVisitation will take place. 
1 
,1 

The Observer Tuesday,january 29, 1985-page 4 


Saint Mary's changes procedures and times for housing selections 
By DIANE PRESTI 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's is in the process of implementing a new system ofroom selections. The random number picks to determine the order of room selections instead will be done by computer and the room selec­tions will be held in March. 
These changes will be put into ef. feet this semester. In the past, students stood in line for several hours to randomly pick a number which would determine the order of room picks. The juniors would go first, then the sophomores and then the freshmen. 
lbis process proved to be time­consuming and expensive. Saint Mary's student government, to­gether with Director of Residence Life and Housing Patricia Rissmeyer, devised the new system. 
I 

lbis new system will save time and moneyfor both the students and the school, said Rissmeyer. She said the details ofthe plan have not been fully determined yet. The students will recdve a letter a few weeks bdore room selections describing the new system. 
The student government had been receiving several complaints about the old system. Early in Octo· ber 1984 they sent out a survey to all Saint Mary's students concerning room picks and the parietal system. According to Anne Marie Kollman, vice president for student affairs, the students responded well to the sur­vey. 
The survey asked If the students thought room selection was too early in the year. Sixty-six percent felt that it was, with only 9 percent disagreeing, and 25 percent having no opinion. When asked If they would be willing to pay the room deposit fee in February, but not choose rooms until March, 66 per­cent ofthe students agreed. 
Room selection was formerly in the third week ofFebruary. Now the students will get their selection numbers on March 10 and make their choice during the following two weeks. 
The student government is also in the process of making recommen· dations concerning the parietals sys­tem. These recommendations will be submitted to the Student Affairs Committee and Council, said Kol­lman. 
Saint Mary's residence life has been undergoing many changes in the past year. Last semester was the beginning of a new system of inte· gration. In the past freshman, sop­homores, juniors, and seniors were segregated in separate dorms. Now, with the new system, all the classes are incorporated in every building. 


Special Olympics Director named 
By ERIK.j. HICKEY 
StaffReporter 
Steve Gay has been named the ex­ecutive director ofthe 1987 Interna­tional Summer Special Olympic Committee. 
Gay, the sports manager ofsoccer for the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, was chosen from a group of60 appli· cants for the position. Gay will be re­sponsible for the 1987 International Summer Special Olympics to be held at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
During the past year, Gay worked for the Los Angeles Olympic Or­ganizing Committee and coor­dinated soccer events at the four sites used during the Games. 
.Gay also has had experience in real estate management, marketing, and sales, and served as head coach for the U.C.L.A. soccer team from 1975 to 1980. Gay was himself a member of the U.S. Olympic soccer team in 1972 and 1976. 
In his new position as executive director ofthe ISSOC, Gay will be re­sponsible for organizing and manag­ing all aspects of the 1987 International Summer Special Olym­pics including fundraising, market· ing, volunteer recruitment, and developing the necessary opera­tional plans for use of facilities, services and sporting events. 
This is a large task, since the ISSO are held only once every four years, and involve every state of the union and more than 60 other countries. Daniel Harshman of Logan Center said the ISSO are the largest single event for the handicapped. 
Harshman said the games will be a first class sporting event with over 4,000 athletes competing in 13 dlf. 

ferent sports,including track and field, swimming, gymnastics, soccer, basketball, and softball. The Games will be held at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's during a 1 0 day period from July 30 to Aug.8. 
Harshman said that many loca­tions all over the nation were con­sidered as sites for the 1987 ISSO games. Syracuse University, the Uni­versity of Oregon at Eugene, Ohio State University and Notre Dame were the finalists in the selection process. Harshman said there were three main reasons for the selection ofNotre Dame. 
First, the facilities are ideal and it is easy to create an Olympic village type atmosphere because of the campus size and setting. 
Second, the University's name stands for a committment to the Spe· cial Olympics, and University Presi­dent Father Theodore Hesburgh and the University were very willing to accomodate the Games. 
Finally, Harshman cited the his­tory of committment in the area; within Indiana, South Bend and Logan Center in terms of the handi­capped. 
Harshman said, "The people in Washington (D.C.) were impressed by the support we received from the people in town...The combination of Notre Dame and the community will insure that the games are carried on in a professional and dignified man­ner." 
He was equally pleased with the support of many of the Notre Dame staff. Harshman said, "It's great the way they've opened themselves up to us, from Father Hesburgh to Gene Corrigan (director of athletics) and Lefty Smith (head hockey coach), all the way to food service, main­tainance and even the computing service." Harshman also hopes to get students involved as volunteers. 
The Games will require about 
1 5,000 volunteers and agreat deal of support from organizations willing to help defray the S3 to 4 million cost ofthe Games. Harshman listed a few of the major organizations hel­ping with the Games, such as Civitan International, which according to Harshman is a civic organization, similar to the Kiwanis, who are cru­cial to the success of the Games. 

IIHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.HIIIIIIIIItlllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Discover Diving with Jr. Aquatic Center 
Sales Specials on: 
51333 US 31-33 No. 
US Divers Farmer John Suits 199.95 US Divers Conshelf 20 Octopus 79.95
South Bend, IN 46637 
US Divers DataMax 3 Gauges 129.95 Tabala Deluxe Jackel BC 225.00

277-0058 
Cayman Island Trip March 30 ·April 6, 1985
Classes starting now: Call Diane for details 
............................................................................................. 

SEMES IER IN SPAIN 
Not just for Spanish majors only, but for everyone: beginners, "in between" students, and advanced. Put some excitement into your college career!! 
BEGINNERORADVANCED-Costisaboutthe Live with a Spanish family, attend classes same as a semester in a U.S. college:$3.480. lour hours a day, lour days a week, lour Price includes jet round trip to Seville from months. Earn 16 hrs. ol credit (equivalent to 4 New York, room, board, and tuition com­semesters taught in U.S. colleges over a two plete. Government grants and loans may be year time span). Your Spanish studies will be applied towards our programs. enhanced by opportunities not available in a 
U.S. classroom. Standardized tests show our 

-----------------F-:5 -I 
students'language skills superior to students I completing two year programs in U.S. I 
Advanced courses also. 
I Hurry, it takes a lot ol time to make all sr­
college you attend 

I rangements. -yo_u_rn-1-m-.-------------I SPRING SEMESTER-Jan. 30 ·May 29 I FALL SEMESTER -Aug. 29 ·Dec. 19 I each year. 
your prPsent street address 
I FULLY ACCREDITED-A Program ol Trinity I Christian College. 
Clly state 

''P I For full information -send coupon to: II you would like lnlorm•llon on lulu,. prot~remo gtw I 
.,.""...."'add,... below. : SEMESTER IN SPAIN 
your pPrm11nen1 '\lrpet address 2442 E. Collier S.E., F-6 Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 Clfy SIBIP zop (A Program ol Trinity Christian College) 

The ~Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Submit applications to Anne by February 7, 1985 at 
the SMC Observer office. For more information, call 
239-5303. 

e Observer experience necessary. 
FOR RENT 
furnished~ 3 bedroom home washer & dryer close to campus 
4 Roommates Needed 
Only $125.00 each 
call287-0148forapt. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
will be in the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn on January 29 starting at 7 pm to discuss career opportunities at Tl and making the transition to a full­time job. 
Open to Engineering, Math & Business Juniors and Seniors with Computer Science background and interest. 
Reception willfollow 
The Observer 
Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
1985-86 Editor-In-Chief 
Open to any NO or SMC undergraduate In good standing 
Elected by 1985-84 General Board of The Observer 
Assume position March 25,1985 
Applications must be submiHed to Bob Vonderheide by 5 p.m. Feb. 1, 1985 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Accent 
Tuesday,january 29, 1985-page 5 
Looking for our own 'celestial fireworks' 
worthwhile. Some ofus are con­nothing to do "'ith their wheeling which He circles in close all the
Rev. 
vinced late, and others early, of the and dealing over cocktails. They time.Robert 
love in the world. Most ofus search know what they want in order to be A number of Christians wait for all the time for love that we can't happy. As Catholics, they have their God to send them visible manifesta­
Griffin 
M 
wear out. We catch glimpses of religion, just as they have their tions ofHis Spirit: a miracle, the giftLetters to a lonely God beauty that bring us peace: the political party and their credit of tongues, a hunger for the Euc­beauty ofpeople, or of nature or art; cards. They're not apt to get excited harist. God doesn't owe them such it delights and surprises us as over the dogma that God has favors, and He doesn't send them, uch of the talk about religion get tired of, so that He is left hang­though we had been presented with invaded their world with His love, so they stop working hard at their goes this way: "I try to pray. I ing like a jilted schoolboy. "Who a gift. Our desire to hang on to and is anxious to put His arms religion. The greatest help I can go to Mass and listen to the priest. can know the mind ofGod?" something or someone beautiful is around them as His lambs. Upward give them is the reminder that God After receiving Communion, I do The clue I can.give the skeptical love being active in us. All ofus bound, for them, has nothing to do goes with them as a lover. All good my best to be open to Christ, Catholic is that God does love us, have met someone anxious to hang with heaven. things-from playing varsity football hoping He will give me one little and works tirelessly to bring us on to us. It is hard to say there is no to being the president ofMacy's ­sign. All the answer I get is silence. I home to Himself. This is the revela­love in the world, even ifthe world Yet one suspects that in the work together for good for those have the strong impression I'm tion the Bible contains; this is the is broken and bleeding, when we weariness at evening, they must who love the Lord. It's a great grace talking to myself. I've decided that if truth the churches give witness to. look at families, or couples on their sometimes ask themselves what the to want to love the Lord, even if He God exists, He is never there for The grace that saves us from futility wedding day. hustling is all about. Later, after never shows me the celestial me. It doesn't matter if He exists or begins with our faith in a caring years ofstriving, they may realize fireworks. not, if He stays so hidden I never God Who became battle-scarred Perhaps it takes an act offaith or a that even the house in the A Catholic tells me his doubts hear from Him." out oflove for us. The doubting leap ofpoetic logic to argue from Hamptons is not enough. In our about God. My advice is: In all I would never promise to bring Thomas has heard it before; the passion in creatures to the search for happiness, it is part ofthe things you do, stay honest; don't lie anyone to a religious experience. "Jesus loves me, passion in God. Metaphysics of human condition that none ofus is to yourselfor others. Be a good, God isn't easy to get to know as a This I know course doesn't study the divine ever finished waiting for the other kind decent human being who stays buddy. Preachers on television offer For the Bible emotions, but the Bible is a highly shoe to drop. I would be smiled at open to the possibilities all your instant conversions from which the tells me so." emotional account ofthe weeping for suggesting the bright young life. God is always busy, bringing us grace comes to break the shackles It's the advertising slogan ofthe Creator. Hope comes from knowing people are listening, like the sainlS, closer, if we let Him, even when of the major vices. The moral fundamentalists, the bumper sticker we have a heavenly Father Who for the sound ofGod's shoe. "Later," we're travelling blind. Salvation was miracles I'm sure ofare the ones favored by the religious enthusiasts. dotes on us. St. Augustine wrote they would answer, "there will be His idea before it was ours. With His 
people work at. My job would be easier if God came rushing in with the eagerness ofa Fuller Brush salesman, every time He finds an open door. The eternal Father Who so loved the world takes His time with us. Maybe He doesn't want His dealings with us to tum out like some cheap love affair we quickly It's the spiritial pablum that keeps the lunatic fringe going, turning the churches into a carnival. 
I don't know how you can prove the love tltat shapes the universe; to tell the truth, I don't want to try. Maybe each ofus is given a different set ofclues as evidence for the love that creates us, and makes our life long ago that our hearts are restless until they rest in Him. 
I'm going to New York on Satur­day for a Yuppie wedding. At the reception I'll meet dozens of Yuppies ready to rise and shine. I could tell them: "Your hearts will be restless until they rest in God." It would seem like priests' talk, having 
·time in our old age to worry about 
the soul's forgiveness, if there is 
sin." Christ is busy keeping our 
souls alive now. "God isn't finished 
with me yet," said Jesse Jackson. 
Half ofthe beautiful, restless people 
don't dream He's even begun with 
them. Their secular careers are 
booby-trapped with grace with 

help, in whatever way it comes, do the best you can, and have a good time enjoying life. There are no games you can play with the deity that will bring you to, or keep you in, the state ofgrace. Work as though everything depended on you. Wait, trusting that everything really depends upon Him. 
10 of 1984's best-keptcinema secrets 
theaters by cheap advertisements flaunting sex and violence. There's nothing wrong with a little sex andMarc violence, ofcourse, but these moronspay to see it. They say 1984 was the year of Eddie Murphy and IndianaRamirez Jones. I don't know about that, but I do know this: I know a good flick when I see one. And although I'm pretty easy to 
Strange days indeed please, I also know a bad one when I see one. "Buckaroo Banzai" was by far the worst film I have ever laid eyes upon, and that comes from someone who's seen "Ice Pirates." 
T
here's probably nothing better in life than enjoying a But I'm through complaining. It's time for me to once good movie while kicking the seat of the person in again pick the top films of 1984. Ifyou're reading fbis front ofyou, and believ.e me, I do it all the time. That's looking for "A Passage to India" or "Fanny and Alexander," because there isn't much worse than having the male half of forget it. I, for one, pride myself on being a relatively a lovey-dovey couple constantly lean over to whisper complex intellectual with a keen mind, at least when sweet trivial nothings into some dreamy-eyed nymph's ear, compared to modern man. I was the kid that passed up and if kicking the seat is what it takes to get this insanity to "Emergency!" and "Happy Days" to watch "Howard stop, then I have no qualms about it. Cosell's Saturday Special." Ahead ofmy time, if you will. 
But I digress. So here, at last, is my list of the top I 0 films of 1984: 
It pains me to think that there are actually poor mis­guided simpletons out there who fork over hard-earned I. Toastbusters. This thriller about three Notre Dame moula to see films like "Supergirl" and "Sheena of the students majoring in food inspection was clearly the best of 
Jungle." They're all degenerates, and you know it as well as '84. Inspiringly played byJohn Hurt, John Candy and Olivia 
I do. They are living beings without brains, drawn into Newton-John, these brave young stalwarts defy the odds by donning anti-mold suits and arming themselves with powerful chain saws as they prepare to tackle the toasted outsides ofa BLT from the South Dining Hall. 
2. Trash! Inspiring performances by David Letterman and Dolly Parton highlight this romance comedy about a Notre Dame senior who falls in love with a beautiful girl he finds while foraging around the mess in his room. In actuality the girl is an overdue homework assignment, but only the two 

Olivia lVewron -Tohn 
lovers know it. When the administration discovers the girl's true identity, it demands that she be turned in for partial credit, but true love wins out over all when the student jumps into the mess in his room and becomes a five-subject pocket folder. 5. Wbere's the Briefs? A Notre Dame female is pressured 
3. Gremlins. Kareem Abdui-Jabbar is inspiring as a into relinquishing her title as a Studymate-of-the-Month in well-wishing father who purchases a mysterious new AMC the Women ofND Calendar after it is revealed that long ago car for his son (Lou Gossett Jr.) for Christmas. Three she posed for the centerfold spread in the University's guidelines come with the car: 1) Think before you drink revised alcohol policy, wearing nothing but oversized before you drive before it's too late; 2) Do not expose the boxer shorts. Vanessa Williams is just too inspiringly car to heavy traffic lest it be buried among heavy laughter; perfect as Bunny, the unfortunate girl, and Michael Jackson and 3) Never, never, no matter how much it may beg, provides the soundtrack, including the smash hits "When never put leaded gas into the Gremlin's gas tank. Well, as Gloves Cry" and "(I Want to Love You) BVD." you can surmise, leaded gas soon makes its way into the tank, and, amongst heavy traffic, the Gremlin multiplies and Rounding out the list of the top 10 of 1984 were "Lofts in transforms into thousands ofsmoke-belching Volkswagen Space," starring Mark Hamill; "Hard to Say I'm Sorry," Vans. The ending will leave you swiveling in your seat. starring Mary Decker; "BurgerWarGames," starring Burger 
4.Romancing the Phone. An enterprising jack-of-all­King, Wendy's and McDonald's; "Laundry Week III -In trades, played byJoe Piscopo in an inspiring role, is Search ofSock," starring Mel Gibson; and the St. John's besieged by Infonet servicemen who insist on fixing his Redmen, who shocked No. 1-ranked Georgetown, 66-65. 
.5-telrrinJ: 

dorm room phone although it is in perfect working order. So there you have it. Of the eleven or so flicks I managed When he refuses to pay his bill, he is taken off Domino's to catch last year, those are the top 10. Ifyou didn't get a
Me1 G1bsoh as JAMfs T. KIRK 
delivery list and forced to eat the dining hall's "Bloody chance to see them, they should be out on videocassette Duck a Ia Tangerine," made from a famous recipe used by soon. Join me next week when I will present my list ofthe
.Chr-istopher Ll d o.s CLING-FI?£E 
Villanova University. 10 best places to order out for Vietnamese food. 



,
,
, 
l, 
1 'l 
.., 
j 
., 

~--------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------­


r 
r 
r 
r­
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
, 
r 
VieW~_O_i_n_t___~~~~~~Tu~es~da~y,J~an~uary~29~,19~ss~p~ag~e6 
Reagan's speech shows his vision of America 
The president's second inaugural speech reaffirmed his known convictions about a res­toration ofAmerican enterprise -security and values. 
But the most moving part of the celebration 
and the most promising for Republican 
Max Lerner 

The Max Lerner Column 
hopes -was the devoted response the presi­
dent got from the young people who were dis­
appointed about the cancelllng of the 
Inaugural parade but gathered to perform 
nevertheless. 

the rapport between a 73-yeac-old presi­
dent and America's high school and college 
students who are the promise ofAmerican life 
was the extraordinary thing about the 1984 
election and the 1985 inaugural. 

There may be three principal reasons why 64 percent of the youngest voters gave Reagan their suffrage. One is his sense ofcom­mand, because the young identify with the image ofa leader who is in charge. The second is the restoration of traditional values, which the young of the 1980s have aided and welcomed. The third is their sense that an en­terprise system freed from governmental in­trusions is becoming a high technology system which opens future possibility for them. 
All three were embodied In the inaugural address, which was vintage Reagan. Although it Is bruited that he wrote it himself, which remains to be confirmed, the more important fact is that his thinking and feeling and his whole first term supplied the themes. All three appeal not only to the young but to the large middle and enterprise classes which make up Reagan's America. 
There is another America, too, that of homeless, jobless and hopeless -fewer than during the depression but still there -whom Reagan's "opportunity society" is passing by. 
There ace city families squeezed by the con­
tinuing budget cuts, and farm families losing 
their land and homes. The president did not 
omit mention of "compassion" from his ad­
dress, but caring and sharing have not been 
dominant Reagan themes. 
Yet the sentence of the inaugural most 
likely to be remembered concerns the 
changes in American society: "We live in a 
world that's lit by our lightning." 
Reagan has been most cleacly recognized as 
a "restoration" president, one who has 
rejected the traumas of the '60s and '70s of 
"anything goes" and the abandonment of 
traditional values and returned to the triad of 
"family, country and God." But the restoration 
of values does not mean the suspension of 
change, and Reagan's "lightning" metaphor 
embraces both the American heritage and the 
high-tech future. 
Reagan's America, in the face of the predic­
tions, comes closer to an era of good feelings 
than any since Eisenhower's. The reason for it 
may last beyond the decade, despite the inevi­
table tensions and acrimony that will accom­
pany the struggle over the budget, the deficit 
and the acms control debate. 
Paradoxically the Restoration Presidency Is 
also one imbedded in the current revolutions 
of our time -especially the information revo­
lution, the knowledge and science revolution 
and the managerial revolution. · 
The young applauded Reagan's evocation of 
America's past. But they respond more to the 
world of the computer and high technology 
and a laser defense strategy which they see as 
opening a future of security and success. For 
them it is a world in which their skills will be 
translated Into jobs and careers, and one in 
which they can get a good chance at life's 
chances. 
They ace bound to encounter difficulties and doubts. But we had almost forgotten that a civilization draws its strength from the belief of the young. 
(C) 1985, LOS ANGELES TIMES SYNDICATE 

Weighing the odds in the abortion debate 
One of the arguments used last fall against voting for Ronald Reagan was the fact that he would have the chance to color the future of the Supreme Court into the 21st century by the appointments he can make In his second term. It was not an 
Gary Wills 

outrider 
argument that meant very much to me. I 
saw ample reason for opposing Reagan in 
himself; I did not have to fall back on Indi­
rect effects that his presidency would have 
later on. 

But the argument was sharpened for some had the Idea that abortion might be outlawed again -or, more properly, "turned back to the states" -by a new court. After all, we are told, only two differ­Ing votes ace needed to alter the previous balance on this issue. This argument reflected, fearfully, the hopes raised by some evangelical and Catholic leaders who said that President Reagan would give them the two appointees they need. 
The argument In this sharpened form was no more compelling to me-actually, even less. For one thing, It rested on an as­sumption that the votes of sitting justices were forever ascertained. But when the court addresses the problem ofabortion, it will be a problem different from the one it faced in 1973, in part because of its suc­cessful actions in that yeac. 
One does not need to agree with Dooley that the court follows election results to know that justices look to the large legal problems of their time -including the problem of enforceability. A majority of the court Is not likely to vote for something It knows will be no more practicable than was Prohibition. 
As pact of its coverage on the large anti­
abortion demonstration in Washington, 
ABC conducted a poll that showed a 
majority of the American people not only 
favor abortion but favor abortion on 
demand. The network added what its com­
mentators thought would be surprising ­
that over 50 percent of Catholics favor 
laws for abortion on demand. That does 
not surprise me because I am Catholic. I 
heac from my fellows what they think, 
though I myself am opposed to abortion. 
The ABC poll reflects other polls, which 
also indicate a growth in the number of 
those who would allow abortion -and no 
wonder. We have lived with the results of 
Roe vs. Wade for a dozen years. The 
resisted thing has become, for many 
people, the normal thing -whether one 
likes that or not. A generation has reached 
or left its teens with the understanding that 
abortion, whether evil or not, Is an option. 
Social inertia, once against abortion, 
then checked and slowly reversed, now 
favors it, or increasingly favors allowing it. 
We ace at a state ofsocial process different 
from the one addressed by the court 
beforehand. We will be at a further stage in 
this process by the time a new court gets 
around to abortion. 
It is not a problem that can be solved in the Supreme Court any longer. In this, it resembles slavery -though it is unlikely that a majority of the voters in America favored slavery by the 1860s. This will mean nothing to those who oppose abor­tion on moral grounds, no matter what the political odds. More power to them. But those who tell their followers they can take a shortcut across massive popular resis­tance by a favorable appointment or two to the Supreme Court ace living on dreams, or 
peddling dreams. 
(C) 1985, UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
Jl~·'
I .-/ I 
I 
I //; 
jL::-;; 
I; I 

Mother Theresa and the Bhopal disaster 
Ever since I heard the brief report on the NBC news that Mother Theresa had visited the victims/survivors of the Bhopal (India) disaster, I have fumed. It was what she said that got my dander up. Once upon a time, Mother Theresa had an authentic calling, that of rescuing the destitute and dying from the streets of Calcutta. Then she had the mis­fortune of being "discovered" by the British 
Ann Pettifer 
guest column 
journalist Malcolm Muggeridge. He was in the process of sloughing off his worldly, rather dissolute past. Promoting Mother Theresa was pact of his public, some would say ex­hibitionist, spiritual quest. It did neither of them any good. 
So what was the offending statement that Mother Theresa made? She urged the sur­vivors of Bhopal not to feel anger at what had happened to their community; rather, she ex­horted them to forgive those responsible for the catastrophe. Those responsible were American corporate buccaneers and Indian officials. lf people were less besotted by the cult ofher holiness, they would recognize that this Is the response of a co-opted woman for Mother Theresa has hitched her wagon to the status quo in both church and state. She has lost, if she ever had it, a critical capacity, what the Christian Testament calls the power ofdis­cernment. 
Did Jesus go to society's victims and exhort them to forgive those in power whose actions desecrated and deformed their lives? The hell he did! He spent his time cataloguing the sins ofthe supply-siders ofhis day, throwing huck­sters out of the Temple and, without mincing his words, castigating the priestly establish­ment as place-man, career types, more inter­ested in the spoils that the priestly office had to offer than in keeping God's Covenant. At the heart of the Covenant was an emphasis on justice for the economically marginalized, 
people like widows and orphans, who were thought to be particularly vulnerable. 
Mother Theresa Is an example ofa Catholic spirituality which has diluted and betrayed the vigorous confrontation with power that jesus displayed and which took him to the cross. A Catholic woman I know once told me that she believed anger to be a sin against charity (sic). When anger Is not appropriated it leads to Inertia and alienation in both the individual and in society. It can, of course, only be repressed for so long; if anger Is not channelled rationally into a political agenda, it will erupt sooner or later, irrationally. This usually plays into the hands of demagogues. Norman Cohn's Tbe Pursuit of the Millen­nium Is a classic analysis ofthis phenomenon. 
Had the Russian Orthodox Church done its job properly, had it risked telling the czac that his dispensation was corrupt and unjust when judged by biblical standards of justice, Lenin and dialectical materialism would not have found such fertile soil. The Gospel, properly preached, Is matchless. However, when we 

codify It into dogma and doctrine, denature 
and etherealize it, we leave the door open to 
other ideologies whose proponents ace 
prepared to organize and exploit people to 
counter the poverty which is their ruin. 
Several years ago, in an undergraduate phi­
losophy course I was taking at Notre Dame, 
the class read John Locke's Tbe Reasonable­
ness of Christianity. A propagandistic pur­
pose lies behind this book. Pact of Locke's 
intention was to propose Jesus and the Good 
News as effective social pacifiers. Locke him­
self was probably a religious sceptic. He 
believed that if the church taught an other­
worldly spirituality which promises rewards 
in an after-life for injustice and poverty 
endured without complaint in this life, the 
result would be social peace. A great deal of 
mainstream Christianity continues to adv­
ocate this kind of perverted, dualistic 
spirituality which insults Jesus and human in­
telligence. Marx was quite right when he 
called It opium -like opium it demoralizes and 
eventually dehumanizes. 
One of the reasons that Mother Theresa's 
spirituality Is so unprophetic is the absence of 
prophetic female role-models (accursed hyp­
henate) in the church. The church had a 
gloriously prophetic figure in the person of 
the mother ofJesus, Mary, but successions of 
church fathers have stripped away her elan. In 
focusing on her perpetual virginity, they have 
ignored the woman who came from a politi­
cally radical family and who welcomed her 
pregnancy with the Magnificat: "God had 
shown the power of God's acm, God has 
routed the proud of heart, God has pulled 
down princes from their thrones and exhalted 
the lowly, the hungry God has filled with good 
things, the rich sent empty away." 
Perhaps it Is because I am a woman, a 
feminist and a convert to Roman Catholicism 
that I find Roman Catholic ecclesiastical male 
concern with Mary's gynycologica1 arrange­
ment indelicate. It is an outrageous intrusion ·into Mary's privacy, this endless definition and formulation of doctrine concerning the state of her hymen. The miracle of Mary is not the non-rupture ofthat fragile membrane, but her unfaltering commitment to the Jewish Cove­nant. She also raised a great fellow and had the perspicacity to push him out of the nest, propelling him into public ministry when she thought the time was ripe. Perhaps at thirty, the time was ripe! 
To end on a more hopeful note-it is becom­ing increasingly clear that Mother Theresa's spirituality will take Its place eventually alongside the dinosaur. A new breed of nun­woman is on the move, pacticulacly in the United States. She does what she can to avoid taking her orders from prelates and in the process builds new organizations like 
Network, the social justice lobby in Washing­ton, D.C.. The modern nun-woman is gradually giving up her submissive quasi­clerical status, thus she is helping to lead the way to a classless church, a church without clerics -those spritituallords -and without a lumpenproletariat -the laity. 
Ann Pettifer is an alumna ofNotre Dame. 

"ielYP-~O_i~n~t~~::~--~~--~~------~===============Tu=e=s=da=y=,J=a=nu=~==2=9=,=19=8=5===p=ag=e~7
'Stop it David. Put your hands down.' 
The boy stops flipping his hands in the air. He looks at me with big, brown eyes that ques­tion what he should do next for excitement. I give him my key chain and it occupies his un­divided attention. He is fascinated by in­animate objects. 
David is tall and thin for a thirteen year old boy. He has brown hair and brown eyes. His beautiful smile displays straight, white teeth. 
Diane Yoder 
guest column 

His movements are strong and graceful. Physiologically, doctors can find nothing wromg with the boy. But David is autistic. He does not speak and signs only a few words. He exhibits selective deafness along with seven or eight characteristics ofa classically autistic person. 
I know very little about autism or handicap­ping conditions. I only see a young boy ex­hibiting very strange behavior at times. It is a behavior which is often hard to deal with. I would describe his autism as a glass barrier erected in front of him which keeps the outside world from invading David and vice­versa. It constrains his speech and actions, yet his mind is sharp and bright. At times, he at­tempts to break down the glass barrier, and at times he seeks refuge behind it, in himself. 
David lives in Northern Indiana State Hospi­
tal in a unit with 15 other higher function 
children. The hospital is home to children of 
handicaps such as severe and profound 
retardation, cerebal palsey, and autism. I work 
with many of these children on a volunteer 
basis, but mainly with David. I am his volun­
teer and he is my child, so to speak. I take him 
ice skating, to Notre Dame sporting events, to 
the mall, and to Saturday recreation at Logan 
Center. David loves McDonald'd and ice 
cream. He loves to swim, bowl, and ride a sta­
tionary bicycle. 
He is no angel as far as behavior is con­cerned. He spits, and has thrown temper tantrums which have left permanent marks on both my mental and physical well-being. He gets depressed and cries, too. 
But David is very special in many other ways. He craves affection. He needs to feel the security and warmth of a hug. He loves to be told how good his behavior is or how well he did in completing a jigsaw puzzle. He is filled with love and has no reservations in showing that love. His eyes dance and shine with joy when he knows someone else loves him. 
David is like many other handicapped people in this: He is human and desires to be loved and to love others. In my eyes, handi­capped people are truly special in that respect, because they are blessed with the ability to give and receive love without judging others. They are quick to welcome anyone and everyone into their lives, and into their hearts. 
Since I have been in college, working with the handicapped has been one ofthe most im­portant and enjoyable aspects of my life. There was a time when I felt uncomfortable around disabled people because of my own ignorance and lack of experience with them. That uncomfortable feeling dissolved within minutes the first time I entered Logan Center. Since that first day, I have missed only one "rec" and have become extensively involved in NISH and other programs at home. 
If I had to describe what happens at Logan Center or when I take David to the mall for example, I would say that it is a chance to play, a chance to become a child again. It is two and one-half hours of running around and acting like we did in kindergarten or playing games like "Red Rover" or "Duck, Duck, Goose." It is non-stop fun and laughter. 
I continually laugh when I work wiUI me handicapped. I always return to school with many stories to tell about "the kids" (and the volumnteers ). It is never a malicious laugh, it's just that funny things always happen at the least expected moment. For example, there is a young man who comes to Logan Center named Brent. Brent thinks he is the ultimate ladies man. He approached me at a dance last year and I greeted him with, "Hi Brent." He said, "I thought you wouldn't recognize me." When I asked him why he thought that he replied, "because I am wearing colonge." He was dead serious. I almost died oflaughter. 
Working with the handicapped is not al­ways full of joy and happiness. It can be frustrating and discouraging. It is absolutely heart-wrenching to see David cry and not have the capacity to understand why or to help him. But to see the joy in his eyes and smile when I come to see him washes away the bad experiences and fills me with a sense of joy and satisfaction rivaled by nothing else. 
'· 
Working with the handicappped has taught 

me so much about people, love, and giving as 
well as about myself. It has helped me to love 
others as human beings, without judging 
them. It has instilled in me a passionate com­
mittment to helping those less fortunate than 
myself. More import, it has had a permanent 
impact on my life and has made my four years 
here extraordinarily memorable and en­
joyable, 
When I graduate from Notre Dame in May and leave Logan center and NISH behind, I will be leaving behind one of the most special aspects ofmy life. The only comfort I will have is the certainty that there will be many stu­dents to come who will make Logan center and NISH an important commitment during their years at Notre Dame. When that hap­pens, David and many others like him will for­get me, but I will never forget them. The people of Logan center and NISH, especially David, will remain in my heart and prayers forever. 
Diane Yoder is a senior government and japanese major at Notre Dame. 
If you have an opinion, why not share it? 
If you would /Ike to respond to something you've read In The Observer, wby not write a letter to the editor. Letters sbould be well· written, typed, no more tban 250 words In length and must bear the signature of the au­thor. Letters wbicb are notsigned by the author wtll not bepubllsbed. 
Letters to the editor can be rrultled to The Observer, P.O.Bo.x Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or delivered to ejther our Notre Dame office In LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office In Haggar College Center. 

The Observer reserves the rlgbt to edit all rrulterlal submitted to the VIewpoint depart­ment/orpublication. 

Doctor Kanury's story, is it fact or fiction? 
As a new semester begins at Notre Dame, students who are all too familiar with the campus, the snow, the administration and the faculty return to see much ofit the same. But if one looks closely, one may detect some marked differences, for it is between semesters and over the summer that the Uni­versity tends quietly to make changes. 
One noticeable difference is.the absence of ,a highly respected mechanical engineering professor, Murty Kanury. Winner of the Me­chanical and Aerospace Engineering Faculty 
John Goebel becker guest column 
Award in 1983 and the College ofEngineering Faculty Award in 1980, Kanury has repeatedly been evaluated by his students as one of the best professors at the university. Even several currently enrolled Indian graduate students considered Kanury's reputation in heat trans­fer in their decision to attend Notre Dame. 
With such an impressive rapport with his students, one wonders what the reasons were for his departure. Several reports have circ­ulated around the mechanical engineering de­partment. One is that PACE report, a summary of recommendations made by the board of trustees, has called for an increase in the num­ber of Catholics on the University's faculty. The rationale is that a larger number ofCatho­lic educators at Notre Dame will create an at­
,mosphere more conducive to Catholic indoctrination. 
Such cookbook policy does not always produce the desired clie<"t, and we begin to see more evidence ofNotre Dame's obsession with "excellence"-no, even better, "Catholic excellence." What looks good in our reports is good for the university. The more research grants our profs acquire and the subsequent publications they write, the greater Notre Dame's academic reputation will be. If more masses are said on campus each week, more Catholics are on the faculty and fewer speakers with controversial viewpoints are invited to speak, Notre Dame will be all the more Catholic. To a certain extent these policies may work, if the faculty and adminis­tration remain committed to the student and to education. 
My experience here unfortunately has not seen that commitment from its faculty. So many professors are pressured to land re­search grants and churn out publications that they literally have no time for their courses. Is this an institution ofhigher education, or are-search lab comparable to NASA's Lewis Re­search Center in Cleveland? Research is unquestionably vital to a university's success in maintaining the highest level of education possible, but it should never upstage the fun­damental goals ofNotre Dame-education and formation. Kanury, while conducting impor­tant research in combustion, never prioritized his research over his students. 

Another report unveUs an even more upset­ting policy of preferring a professor who writes "Roman Catholic" on his portfolio over one who writes "Protestant" or "Methodist." Who is to say the Protestant is not going to be more committed to teaching and to the welfare of his students and embody a more Christian lifestyle than the Catholic? Although Kanury was not Catholic, he was Christian, and he was one of the very few profs who made the effort to incorporate his philosophy of life into the engineering courses he taught. Teaching heat transfer was not enough if he was not able to stimulate the students to think about morality and daily living. He never forced his views on his class but exposed us to them and challenged us to think. 
I remember him saying at the close of the semester, "If my life has affected you in some positive way, then I have helped thirty people. But if you in turn take what I have given you and share it with someone else, and the process continues, my life is worthwhile." His teaching is his life. No other engineering prof so clearly manifested that. 
Still another report indicates that Kanury had a personality contlict with one ofhis col­leagues. Having been granted tenure, he ap­plied for full professorship three times. The second was denied after a thirty-nine person faculty recommendation board evaluated Kanury's application. Thirty-six approved Kanury's professorship, three did not. It is bit­terly discouraging to see the students and the University pay the price for personality con­flicts and political shenanigans within the de­partment. 
The purpose of this column is to express extreme dissatisfaction with the engineering school's action in denying Kanury's professor­ship which prompted his departure. The uni­versity has yet another blemish on its record of excellence, in its quest for excellence and, again, the students suffer. 
A public statement is in order, in fairness to Kanury's former students and especially to the Notre Dame students who will not have the opportunity and privilege to experience the man. 
john Goebelbecker Is a graduate mecbanl­cal engineering studentatNotre Dame. 
=~-· -The_-Observer-..-Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed1tor·m-Ch1ef. Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. ...... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor .. . Mark Worscheh Controller . .. Dave Stephenitch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Ed1tor . ... Sarah Hamilton Advert1smg Manager .... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor . . Dan McCullough Circulation Manager . .... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Ed1tor . . . . Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager . ... Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Ed1tor. Michael Sullivan Production Manager. . Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Viewpoint Ed1tor . .. Dave Grote Protect Manager Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Ed1tor . . .... Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. Photo Editor. . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 


Sports Briefs 
The ND junior varsity hockey teamwon two games last weekend over the Fort Wayne Juniors to increase its record to 4-1. Saturday, freshman Kevin O'Neill scored two goals in the 3-1 victory and Sunday sophomore Mike Marino scored twice as Notre Dame won, 4-3.-The Observer 
The ND Novice Crew Club will be meeting today at 8 p.m. in the ACC. The entire team will begin practice tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the ACC. Anyone who is interested may attend the meeting. -Tbe Observer 
The ND/SMC Gymnastics Clubwomen com­peted against V(lparaiso last Saturday. Dena Heisler and Unda Beal tied for first place on the vault and Cheryl Sydow placed first on the floor exercise and second in the all-around competition. -Tbe Observer 
The ND women's track team is looking for volunteers to help at its home meet on Friday. Anyone who is inter­ested should call Patty at 283-4072 or Anne at 283-2646. -Tbe Observer 
Pat Sullivan, general manager of the New England Patriots, will be a guest speaker in the Notre Dame Law School on Thursday at 2 p.m. Sullivan will discuss "How Highly Compensated Individuals Negotiate Contracts" during a session of the Sports and Entertainment Law class. The talk, in room 110 of the Law School, is open to the public. -Tbe Observer 
1
Tuesday, january 29, 1985-page 8 
Mary Beth Schueth and Mary Gavin, Notre Dame basketball players, will be the guests tonight on Speak­ing ofSports at 9 p.m. on WVFI-AM 64. Call with your questions and comments on Irish women's basketball at 239-6400. -The Observer 
MaryJo Lanlberthas been named the varsity volleyball coach at Saint Mary's. Lambert, who teaches health and physical edu­cation at Saint Mary's, previously has coached at the college level at Washington State College, where she had a record of 211-60.-The Observer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting Thursday at 7 p.m. on the first floor ofLaFortune. For more informa­tion, call Tim at 287-8264. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will be meeting today at 6:30p.m. in the basement of Breen-Phillips Hall. -
Tbe Observer 
A pool tournamentis now being organized. Anyone who is interested may sign up by Friday in the pool room in the basement ofLaFortune. -The Observer 
Cross-country skiing events are being sponsored by NVA. There will be an advanced skier clinic on Thursday, there will be "moonlighters" today and Feb. 8, on Satur­day there will be a day tour, and on Feb. 9 there will beadayofraces. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -Tbe Observer 
Track 
continuedfrom page 12 
time of 7.93, while Mick took the 
shot put with a toss of forty-three 
feet, one-quarter inch. 
DePaul was only able to win the 
three mile run, 440-yard dash, 1000­
yard run, triple jump, mile run, and 
mile relay. The Blue Demons' joe 
Vogenthaler captured both the 
1000-yard run and the mile, while 
Kerry Sloan won the 440-yard dash 
and took second in the long jump 
and 60-yard high hurdles. 
While many of the top Irish run­
ners did not participate, the meet 
displayed several important charac­
teristics of this team. Most impor­
tantly, the Irish runners ran hard, 
and when challenged for the lead, 
they held off DePaul and captured 
the events. This determination will 
be especially Important In the bigger meets later In the year. 
Once again, the jumpers stood out and showed that they can be counted on to consistently score points. Finally, many ofthe freshmen competed for the first time, and demonstrated they will provide solid performances in the remaining part ofthe year. 

The Obsert>er Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified adverti~ing from l) a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, an·epts dassifieds from 1.2:.~0 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five l'haral·­
Classifieds 
ters r da 
NOTICES 
............................................................... EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 
EXPERT TYPING IIJIVICE. CALL liM. COKIDI, ~71101. 
NEED TYPING, CALL DOLOfiiB 277­1041 
PICK UP AND DELIVIDIY 
TYPING CALL CHillS 234-81117 
tiliTTiiul·:voo·CiN·auv·J£1Pi.iiOit 
S44 THI'IOUQH THE U.S. GOVEIIM­IIENT? GET THE FAC'n TOOAYI 
CALL 1412-742-11421!XT. 73111. 
TYPING AVAILAIILE 
287-4012 
TYPING JACKIE 110008 ll84-e7a 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS appli­a~tion ~ne 11 February 1. More info at Center for Social Concemal 
FUN AND HAAD WOAK'WlTH "KiDS'As 
CAMP COUNSELOR. YMCA STORER CAMPS IS CARING, CHRISTIAN COM­MUNITY SERVING KIDS 7• 17. UNIQUE PROGRAMS: HORSES, AQUATICS, SAILING, WILDERNESS ADVENTURE, INTERNATIONAL EMPHASIS. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: ANN WIEDEMANN AT 283-3032 
AN oFF:CAMPUS BOWLING LEAGUE IS BEING FORMED ON TUESDAY NIGHTS AT 9PM. CALL 289-5379 OR 272-{1734 FOR SIGNUPS AND INFOR­MATION DEADLINE IS SATURDAY, FEB.2. 
THE NEW YORK TIMES! IT'S NOTTOO LATE TO ORDER THE NEW YORK TIMES FOR CAMPUS DELIVERY AT 35 CENTS A DAY CONTACT GEORGE DEVENNY AT 145 STANFORD 283­
2094. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETTER JACKET, BLUE AND BLACK WITH NAME ON INSIDE POCKET. MISPLACED AT BRIDGETT'S TUESDAY EVENING OR EARLY WEDNESDAY MORNING PLEASE RETURN , NO QUESTIONS ASKED CALLJ.R. REIDAT2n-7561. 
.............................................................. LOST: One tear-shaped gold 8111Ting be­tween Lewta and the Credit Union... If found piMN C8ll Anne 2624 
....... ······· ......... "LOST": One long, blacl<, wool coat. If you "found" It 1n the Cornmona 1ut Mon. night. would you piMN return it to the Loll and Found In ltle Ad.Mln. Bldg? If you're not wiNing to do 10. would you at !Mat return 
my room key,"""-or any other item you do not deeire to keep? lt'l a COLD world out there, but I'm trying to keep a warm heart about ttl 
FOUND FOUND FOUND HEY DON'T CRYIIF YOU LOSE A GOlD IRISH RING A COUPLE OF DAYS AGO I FOUND IT, GIMMEA CALL ASAP AT<4008 ASK FOR JOSUE SORRY I DIDN'T PLACED THE AD EARLIER LOST Rhlneatone necldece on Sat. night, the 19. PLEASE HELP 1111 $$$$REWARD$$$$ Cal Cindy at 272­6084 

HELPI REWARD! LOST MY CHRISTMAS GIFT! I LOST MY LADIES GOLD WATCH FRI. NIGHT, POSSIBLY AT THE SUBURBS CONCERT. PLEASE CALL WANDA ]4058.HELPI 
LOST R~iri~;;;·~~:·;;g;;:·ry~:·Th~ dog ia golden with a blacl< atripe on tail and It hu blacl< rnartdnga around eyes and muule. The dog'a name ia "Winaton". If located p1eue call 2n­
5828 or 272-6920. 
LOST: Iliad< wool coat at a pel1y, F rlday night at Turtle Creel<. If found please con­tact me at 1090: NO queationa asked. 
LOST: Blue NO Bag.Contllna 2 Sharp calculatora (lcientific and solar), pencils and pena.lcet probebfy at Dining Halls,Galvln, or Stepan Chern. on December 21.Prove me wrong that NO students are thieveaand return to NO Loet andFoundorcatiTornat 1524 after 10am MWF or after 2:30pm on weekends. 
Loet: A pelr ol NIKES (Mid-tops) Basket· ball shoea. White with blue and red atripes. lut seen at the mens locker room at the Rock. If found pi-call CH:r at 1436. 
UJST:J~~·;;;fik,·~~~~~/G-'Ori~;;;-~ 
license, military 1.0. and other valuablea in or around Corny's n Bridget'a. Need dMperately! Cali Keny McMonigle. SMC 4322 
FoUND: ..;;i KEYS i~ DU~Of ~h Dining Hall !eat WMk. Call3217to ldan­tlfy. 
Losr·:·o;;;;·;:i3Q.~i;;i;;;·;;.;·it;;i;;·~~;;;; 
Kevin Camblin very sloppily sa-etched on it. I could of awom I had it Physics lab 10 IJither the h~udgena are stiU worl<ing or the girl next to me picked it up by accident. Anyway, call Kevin at 210311 found. 
............................................. 
Loet: Gokland blue add-a-bead necklace. Very sentimental in value. If found call laura at 2732. REWARD. 
FciuNo:·,.·~·~ ~i;;,,~,_:c.c::·b;;;;;;.~ 
Chriatmu Break. To claim call Mike at 2122. 
LOST:MY IDEAL CHRISTMAS.ON THE BEACH, IN THE SUN, ON THE SAND WITH A BEER...AND KELLY FITZGERALD. 
LOST MAROON AND GRAY PLAID WOOL SCARF WED IN LAFORTUNE OR THURS. MORNING IN SOUTH DINING HALL. PLEASE CALL2116. 
LOST: GREEN SWEATER IN CUSHING, ROOM 208 IF FOUND, CALL JOHN AT 2196 NO QUESTIONS ASKED 
FOUND: Silver ring at the Rock OYW the _..__ call John at 2013 and Identify to clelm. 
LOST: A ladies' Pulsar watch with a blue band and a gold lace. Loet sometime Friday afternoon. II found pleaae call u.. at2998. 
...................................... 
LOST: A lllllck and Whit. Siberian Hutllly. Age 5 monilia. Welgha 45·110 pouncla. ""--" to the NlfM "SHINDIO".Loaton1·27.ftlnthe­of Eaat ............ If apolted, .... c:M8d, or found II'-.,..O.Vaat 232· 0731. 
LOST Single Strand PEARL NECKLACE PLEASE, PLEASE Call Jodie 16691 
·······:···········""'"'''''''''''''''"''''"'''''''''······· 
FOR RENT 
............................................... !. .............. . male roommate wanted to share apart­ment, CAMPUS VIEW APTS. call 2n­4833 
................................................ 
WANTED. A ROOMMATE TO SHARE APARTMENT 2A, AT NOTRE DAME APATMTS. BLDNG. 832. RENT OF ONLY 105/MONTHLY. CALL JOE MCBRIDE AT 283-1723 
WANTED 
.................... ............................ WANTED, TO IIORAOW: One ab1ng baa,lor the K-.._,ua. REWARD: _.,.. ....,uetlcblalllakayour baa 
• calabrtty today. 
Needed: one roommate to live O.C. next year in a 6-room houae ... Rent: $80 plus utilities ... To qualify you must be a Sun Belt-type penson who hates the winter and loves the beach and surf... Must like to lis­ten to the Beach Boys and Jan & Dean ... Call 25n and ask for Le ... 
....... .. ....... . 
RIDERS NEEDED TO BUF­FALO/ROCH. L:1/31 RET:2/3 RICK 
4384 
NEED RIDERS TO PENN STATE LEAVE: FEB. 1st RETURN: FEB. 3fd or 4111 CALL BRIAN AT 3499 or 3200 
Rid8fll neeiled to Cleveland tor this weekend. Callsaan at 2n-3953. 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: One MW P..-.ound TURNTABLE. Bought thll eummar, and haa not been uaad alnc:a. OrMt lor dorm u•. call Chuck at 3240 or 32411. 
................................................................ 
FOR SALE: YAMAHA 6-STRING JUMBO FOLK GUITAR (MODEL FG-345 II). like new. CUe included. $200. Call234·1067 between 9:00 am and 3:00 pm. Ask for Jim. 
F-ofi.sAi:ii i:i'iiiAAiNoiii:i .6F.sil.i·o· a: 
BALL TICKET BOOK. CALL ANNE AT 1884. 
For ..le: AE-1 Program with auto wlnder,no lenae,very good condition $180; call Vic 234-6715after 10 p.m. 
TICKETS 
......... .. ..................... . 
HELP! Need 3 Syracuse vs NO tickets. Pleue call Teny at1991! 
BIG BUCKS need 4 SYRACUSE stud tix call Mark x1204 HELP!I I have a friend coming from the Univ8fllity of Virginia. She wants to aee whet real basl<etballls like. She's tired of watch the dool'rnlts of the ACC play. I need 1 Syracuae ticket. I have KEENAN REVUE ticketa(llfeady). Maybe we can make a deal. Call Scott at 3241 or 3242. 
HELPIIII I don'tgettwoSyracuseGA's, I'll loee. PIMI8 call Chuck at 1565.Morn and Dad are jetting in from the coaat, 10 money is trivial. 
PERSONALS 
pfiE:c3N-"'Nr?..NE:'Ei:i..ii.Ei:P7..cA'U:·234: 
0363. 24 hour hodine/free pregnancy test available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
................................................................ 
When ia this teat ever going to end? 
Tough lrlanda 1aat longer. 
................................................................ Crom lefor IWTERATE barberiana. Cthulhu'e awndarda-higher. 
crii'ui3ii·-'·sA'vE:s~·-............................... 
SAVE MONEY!! PURCHASE YOUR TEXTS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 SOUTH BEND AVE.,NEXTTO CORBY'S BAR. 233-2342. 
MAKE MONEY !I SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS TO PANDORA'S FOR $$ OR CREDIT I PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 SO.BEND AVE. 233-2342. 
......................... OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.ll., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
ASPEN!I!ASPENI!IASPENIII 
SPRING BREAK '85 CALL MIKE AT 283·3573 OR LARRY AT 283-3630 FOR INFO. 
I'd like a bigger room, please. 
So Baker, did you ever remember what she lool<ed like??? 
CAMPUS CRUSADE FOR QUETZAL· COATL 
To the barbarian who can't spell: Further desecration of lhe Great One's name wiN resu~ in your "participation" in a certain Candlemas ritual. 
Campus Crusade for Cthulhu 
Yo Flo& B.O. :O.C. is the place to be next year. 
................................. SPRING BREAK IS COIIING........ ARE YOU READY?! AVOID THE RUSH AND PLAN NOW FOR A WONDERFUL WEEK IN STEAIIBOAT SPRINGS, 
COLORADO.•.S. PADRE 18­
LAND.... CORPUS CHRtSTl ... OR, 
DAYTONA BEACH! PLENTY OF 
REASOHA8LE PACKAGES ARE WAITlNG. CALL RENE FOR MORE INFO. AT 1190. 
ANOI, We love you. 
Larry, You ..y all the right things. the Loved one someone ctlli up Phil 
"All freshmen are to be eaten." 

KEENAN REVUE TICKET OISTRIBIJ. TlON: llelntllary'l etudanla. Tuaaday, Jan. 2t O'llughlln Aud. 4:00p.m. SIIC ID'I required. 
Buzzard A-.d Winner: Utile Kings and the statement "I won't pass out." Guess the johs on you. 
The Psychologist 
····················•····•····································· 
Zieb-Today'a your birthday, and we love ya, 10 you've got that going for you ... which is nice. Lynn & laur 
KEVIN, are we still making up ???????? -me 
....................... Yo Fae! late at night, and without permia­sion, they delivered a large piua when we ordered a medium! (clasp arms, jump up and clown) 
I "heart" T.K. and Maria! 
•············································ 

Karen, Rockin' and Ether: I know this is late, but thanks for the Happy Hour. A suggestion tor next time: serve more Raisin Bran!FN 
Trish and Unda (the winner of the Super 
Bowl trip and the winner of the dream pie 
contest): This wu suppolled to run lut 
week. I'm glad you had a blat, It couldn't 
have happened to a nicer pelr of girls! Is 
everyone who goes to Mr. D's from New 
Jersey? 

........•..... ...... 
Fun with the Gooee(Gormley), a redneck 
from Kentucky. They don't make T-birds 
like they used to. Surfin' Salan. I'm a n~ce 
guy, why can't I get any. $500 out ltle win­
dow. I was sober through the whole thing. 
On top ol ltle world for $6! The 3B Meg· 
gots!! 

..................... Dear Father Ted, I can't take it anymore! No social lite, no sleep and NO nice girls. Goodbye! Hello OSU!!I 
Dear Father Ted. I can't take it anymore! No social life, no sleep and NO nice girls. Goodbye! Hello OSU!II 
Maura, They'll hurt me bad But I won't mind They'll hurt me bad They do it all the time 

-The Violent Femmes 
NEEDED: Red baby grand piano equipped with C-400 outboard motor, for Keenan Revue. R_.,d: several hundred Revue tix. Make your lnatrument famous. Send piano in manila envelope only to Room 602 Keenan. 
HEY Au>(ou' Fi'fsTY NO-SMC"w(i 
MEN TODAY IS PAUL AVONA'S BIRTHDAY! STOP BY 232 ZAHM & BRING SHOTS & SEXUAL FAVORS OR CALL1235. 
TOM YOU WAITED TOO LONG. I lOVE PAUL B,&UAUUA HA HA HA HA TRISH 
Liebes T esachen, tch hoffe daB ea Oir gut 
geht, und war' gern bei Oir. DaB aoviel 
land zwischen una ateht. hangt ab doch 
nur vorn M-. Trotz desselben konnen 
wlr beiaammen tleln, indem wlr una die 
Starke achaffen, die zu elner Phan­
tuiefahrt notlg scheint. Ou muB una 
doch klappen! Oamlt Du weiBt, -ich 
bin, KuB lch Olch, einmalauf Oeiner rech­
ten Backe, 'mal auf der llnken Backe, und 
zuletzt 'mal auf Oeinen Uppen, (und nlcht 
auf der Stirn) demit Du welbt, Wer lch 
wlrkllch bini P.S. Dalch nlcht mehr weiB, 
wann Ou Geburtatag hut, wunache lch 
Oir Illes Gute zum Tag Oeiner Wahl, tiel 
es morgen oder gestem. 
HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB 272-4453 FREE DELIVERY M0-TH 8­11 pm FA-SA 8pm-1 am 
;:~;;; D~ ~~i·~~;;..;;;;.~i~;;.: I~Hkiti;;;,;; 
Boae 
.............................................,.................. G1rls---can't live wlth'em... can't shoot 'em. 
.............................................................. .. QUOTE OF THE WEEK: "You GOTIA get it moist flrst!!!"--Winkie 
.:i~;:· sj;~u;;. i<i~-~-c;;i~~Yih~i· ~· · 0 ;~, 
beginning. How many people fit in a Jacuzzi? Reservations lor 37, please! Awfull Awfull Thanks a bunch-we had a great time! 
RicJ~·~;;..d;.d ..i~· ~~-~~ (;;;.·u-~i 
Iowa, or Des Moinea, or...) ltlia weekend. If intllfested, call John at 2483. 
Hey Bath, 
I enjoyed our talk Friday night. Oon'1 
worry, I won't getfristebot. 
.................. . ..... . Cath At least MY relsina are all In one place. Can you remember where you've left all ol yours? Touche'darling, Con 
3rd law of Mrs. Goodfrench: You are what you uae. 
Is anyone going to the Univnty ollowa this weekend? I need a ride. Pleaee call Margie SMC 4294. 
-r;,;~· b~~;~;;;· ;;;~~~.-;;;;;k;;;~,;g·i<~i~ 
with a "K" request the pteaaure of your 
company at a SOCial gathering thiS Friday 
in toom 129 Alumni. No eng1neenng 
majofs need aUened. 
This ad sponsored by those aexy 
furniture dencenl at the McCandless 
Beach party (one party is never enough 
for those SMC chicks) 
............................ 
Lost: Wild piua cup believed to have fal­len out of a ltlird floor LeMana window. If found pleaae call Jan Farrell1777. 
........................ 
LADIES· Today the chance of your lifetime hu tlfrived. That's right, after 21 long yeara you finally have that perfect 
excuse to whatever with that auttan of sexuality JOHN ZEIBERT to celebrate his entrance into legality. You won't have another chance like this until he reachea puberty, 10 act now. All well ·wlsh8fll may bring ltleir presence and presents to 154 MORRISSEY or call 3482. Do a guy a favor, Elbow block8fll need not apply. 

The Observer 
Tuesday, january 29, 1985-page 9 
Saint Mary's fencing team reaches end of rebuilding era 

By COLLEEN MACISZEWS.KI 
sports Writer 
After the first few weeks of the 1985 season, it appears that the rebuilding period is coming to an end for the Saint Mary's fencing team. 
Although the program still needs sonGeiDlprovennentbeforeitreturns to the level it attained three years ago, the fencers and first-year coach Mike Weeks are expecting good results by the end ofthe season. The reason is siDlple. For the first tinGe in a few years, the team has a large number of experienced fencers re­turning to the squad. 
"We are an improving team," says Weeks who succeeded Marc Dejong this year. "We should continue de­veloping as the season goes on." 
Weeks will be counting on cap­tain Mary Ann Castaneda to help the Belles' development. The senior has a great deal of experience and has been the most constant figure in the program which has gone through a number of coaches in the past several years. She knows that she has a great deal of responsibility, and hopes to help set the program back on the correct course. 
"When I was a freshman, we had a very good year," says the San Diego, Calif., native. "We lost a lot of fen­cers after that year, though, so we had to start from scratch. I think I've been able to help rebuild the pro­gram along with Coach (Mike) DeCicco (the Notre Dame coach) and the other coaches we've had. 
"I think the program is progress­ing quite rapidly now because most of the team started last year. Last year was really the starting year for everybody except myself, but this year everybody is much better." 
The key to this year's squad will 
be the continued iDlprovement of 
the three juniors: Ann Raney, 
Debbie Buchanan and Becca Bar­
nett. They forDl the core ofthe team 
and will be expected to fill the void 
that will result when Castaneda 
graduates. 
The juniors are not the only ones with whom the responsibility of rebuilding the prograDl will rest. Sopho01ore Laura Harris, the youngest member of the squad, also will be counted on in the years to come. 
The Saint Mary's team has benefited a great deal from its close association with the Notre Dame fencers. DeCicco, one of the Dlost successful fencing coaches in the country, spends a lot of time with the team. The Belles also practice with the Irish, allowing them the ex­perience ofcompeting against some ofthe best fencers in.the nation. 
"Practicing with Notre Da01e does us a world of good," says Cas­taneda. "It does take the girls a while to get over to Notre Dame from Saint Mary's which is kind of a hassle, but if we didn't have the competition, we wouldn't be able to compete with the good fencers." 
The team's road trip to the East Coast during the semester break is a good example of how much the as­sociation with Notre Dame helps. The Belles did not think they would be able to go east to face some ofthe nation's best fencers, but the team was able to raise enough money to go and DeCicco brought them along with his fencers. 
Saint Mary's took advantage ofthe opportunity as it performed quite well, finishing with a 2-2-1 record in non-tournament action. The Belles also lost in the first round of the United States Fencing Association Collegiate Open. 
"The East Coast trip really did us a 
world ofgood," says Castaneda. "We 
were very fortunate to go and we did 
really well." 
The trip began on Jan. 7 when Saint Mary's competed in a meet with Harvard and MIT. The Belles got off to an inauspicious start as they fell to Harvard, 7-2. However, the team bounced right back against MIT, winning a close battle, 5-4. 
The University of Pennsylvania played host to Saint Mary's two days later and quickly wiped out the memory of the MIT win by routing the Belles. Once again, however, the 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
started controlling the boards, once we got ahead, we just wanted to take our tinGe and get good shots." 
The Irish did not hit all of their shots, though, and they finished the game with a percentage of .434 on 23-for-53 shooting. Notre Dame did gain an edge over the Friars in rebounding, 39-24. 
Donald Royal and Joseph Price, who started the ga01e in place ofjim Dolan and Scott Hicks, scored 12 and 11 points, respectively. Tim Kempton had eight points and 11 rebounds, while the Friars' Brian Waller led all scorers with 20 points. Palazzi had 16 points for Provi­dence. 
Phelps explained that his strategy in starting a new lineup was not to punish anyone for last Saturday's loss at Maryland. 
"I'm just looking for a combina­tion to get ourselves going again," Phelps said. "I don't blame anybody for what happened Saturday." 
Several Notre Da01e players ap-


SOPHOMORES! JUNIORS! SENIORS! 
GET ON THE RIGHT CAREER TRACK! 
Meet with: MR. WILLIAM J. DeSANA Manager, Human Resources Owens-Illinois, Inc. 
On Wednesday, February 6 For one-on-one Career consultations 
Sign up by Thursday, January 31 at Career and Placement Services Lower Level, Memorial Library 
SENIORS:£ CHALLENGEYOURSELF! HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 

I 
A one year postgraduate experience which allows you to live in community, develop your faith and discern your priorities. 
For more info: 
M.J. Murray 239-5521 

THINK ABOUT IT! 
Mary Ann Roemer 239-7949 APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEB.1 
team bounced back as it easily beat 
Princeton and tied Temple before 
heading to Bryn Mawr Colle_ge 
outside Philadelphia to compete in 
the USFA tournament. 
Saint Mary's was seeded 14th in 
the 16-team field which competed 
at Bryn Mawr from Jan. 11-13, and 
was forced to Dleet a tough William 
& Mary team in the first round ofthe 
single-eliDlination tourney. The 
Belles lost, eliminating them froDl the competition. 
As expected, Castaneda was the star ofthe trip, posting an impressive 14-2 record, easi!y :he best among 
pear to be in a slump lately, a situa­tion which Phelps compares to that of a baseball player in a hitting slump. Although Dolan and Hicks played only four and six minutes, respectively, Kempton, one of the other slumping players, played 33 minutes. The Irish coach defended his use ofthe 6-9 center, despite the poor play Kempton has demon­strated lately. 
"Timmy does two things very 
Waller Wright Knight Brown 
Donovan Lomax Kipfer Starks 
Palazzi 
Roth 

the team members. Raney was the only other fencer to finish above .500 as she finished with a 9-8 record. Buchanan headed back to the Midwest with a 5-11 mark, while Barnett and Harris had identical 4-7 records. 
Although the trip ended more than two weeks ago, the Belles have not competed since they lost to WilliaDl & Mary. They were supposed to compete in a tourna­ment at Columbus, Ohio, this weekend, but the bad weather forced its cancellation. 
well: he rebounds and he makes his foul shots, especially when we need them at the end ofthe game," Phelps said. "He's struggling with his of­fense right now, (but) Kempton is very valuable for what this teaDJ does defensively." 
Last night's victory raised Notre Da01e's record to 10-5, while the Friars fell to 9-11. The Irish will be back in the ACC tomorrow night for a 7 p.m. game with St. Louis. 
Last Night's Resulcs Notre Dame 70, Providence 63 
Providence (63)  Notre Dame ('70)  
M  FG·A  Ff·A  R  F  p  M FG·A  Ff·A  R  F  p  
36  8-14  4-4  6  5  20  Barlow  36  8-15  3-5  13  2  19  
13  2-5  0-0  2  0  4  Royal  36  5·7  2-2  6  3  12  
33  0-1  2-2  3  5  2  Kempton  33  2·5  4-5  ll  4  8  
33  3-6  0·2  1  3  6  Rivers  39  3·10  6-7  1  3  12  
7  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  Price  34  4-ll  H  3  3  ll  
22  1-4  0-0  4  4  2  Hicks  6  0-1  1-2  0  0  I  
12  1-1  0·0  3  I  2  Spencer  6  1-2  0·2  0  I  2  
16  2-2  5-8  3  3  9  Dulf  5  0-1  4-5  1  0  4  
24  5-13  6-6  0  4  16  Dolan  4  0-1  1·2  2  I  I  
4  1-1  0-0  1  1  2  Voce  1  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
200 23-47 17-22  23  26  63  200 23-53 2-l-34  37  17  70  

FG Pet.-.489. Ff Pet.-.7/3. Team rebounds-FG Pet.-.434. FfPet.·.706. Team rebounds. 
l. Turnovers · 15. Assists -3. Technicals -I 2. Turnovers-15. Assists-7 (Rivers 3 ). Techni· (Lomax). cals-none. 
Halftime -Providence 31, Notre Dame 27. 
Officials -Dan Woolridge, Dave Lodge. Stan 
Rote (all ACC). A· 10,614. 
.. 
~
~ 

Arts and Letters Business Society sponsors a night with 
The Northern Trust Company ofChicago 
Tuesday, January 29 7:00pm 124 Hayes Healy All are Welcome! 
PSYCHOLOGY 
MAJORS 
ARE CRAZY 
ABOUT 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA. 
277-2151 

Get two free Cokes~ with
Two Free 

any pizza. One coupon per pizza. 
Cokes~ 

Fast, Free Delivery'" Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend Phone: 277-2151 

The Obserwr Tuesday,January 29, 1985-page 10 
Races heat up in men's and women's interhall basketball 



B.P. leads women's division 
By MICHAEL FLANNERY 
Sports Writer 
In the making of cottage cheese, everyone knows cream rises to the top. Stir up the womens' lnterhall basketball league and you'll get the same result. Halfway through the regular season, the elite have dem­onstrated their superiorty ·· under­neath them, there's a mad scramble to make the playoffs. 
Breen-Phillips A-team, ranke<l second In the preseason, have a firm grip on the number one position. They are undefeated, with a record of5·0. 
Using a simple motion offense, 
B.P.·A has taken advantage of some 
hot shooting from Janice Monagle, 
Usa 'Downtown' Brown, and Dava 
Newman. Under the boards, 
forward-center Ann Curoe has been 
dominant. 
"In all of our games, In every cru­
cial situation, we have risen to the 
occasion," says B.P. captain Kathy 
McCarthy. "Best ofall, we are enjoy­
Ing ourselves •· even when the game 
Is on the line.' 
On Sunday, Lewis B became the 
latest victim ofB.P.·A's stellar perfor­
mance, losing by six points. 
Close behind B.P.-A, with a 4-1 record, Is Farley A. Last year's cham· pion was expected to falter this year, but It has proven unbeatable after an opening game loss to Pasquerllla East. An in-house battle with Farley B on Sunday was no contest with Farley A winning by 13. 
The surprise team of the year is 

NOTRE DAME AVE. APfS. ROOMMATES NEEDED! 
Boys and Girls 
Call office 3-6 DAILY 234-6647 
ENGINEER~ 
February 19 

SUNDSTRAND ON CAMPUS 
Sundstrand, a leading technology-based company, is involved in the design, manufacture and sale of advanced electrical and mechanical aerospace systems for commercial and military jet aircraft as well as missiles and space applications. 
Sundstrand is a Fortune 500 company headquartered in Rockford, Illinois with annual sales of:about $1 billion. We have manufacturing and service locations worldwide and use state-of-the-art technologies to design, manufacture and deliver our products. 
We offer a competitive salary, a solid benefit package including health and dental, an educational reimbursement program and a liberal holiday schedule. Investigate the engineering opportunities for you! 
Sundstrand Corporation 4747 Harrison Avenue P.O. Box 7002 Rockford, ll 61125-7002 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Walsh. This preseason dark horse upset P.E. on Sunday to run their record to 3·1. "Our defense forced 
P.E. to take the perimeter jumpers; their inside game wasn't really a fac­
tor,"  says  Walsh  captain  Claire  
Welsh.  
Welsh calls  the  game  a  "hard­ 

fought battle on both sides. I'm sure both teams will be in the playoffs." 
What about P.E., the early favorite to win It all? They are mired in fifth place, with a 3·2 record. Against Walsh, P.E. was forced to play with­out talented Reggie Richter, who was In the Infirmary with stomach flu. 
While they aren't out of the playoffpicture, captain Susie Fessler sums up the situation well. "Basically, we've got to win the rest ofour games," she says. 
Lyons, also at 3·2 and struggling to make the playoffs, typifies the atti· tude of the rest of the league. They are conceding nothing to the top teams. Captain Gretchen Grieb says simply, "We think B.P.-A is heatable." 
The best game of the year should be a Valentine's Day clash between B.P.-A and Farley A. Cards and candy aren't likely to be exchanged. "They know we're a force to be reckoned with," says McCarthy. "I just hope It's clean ·· but we'll be ready for anything." 
The records as ofJanuary 29: B.P.· A, 5·0; Farley A, 4-1; Walsh, 3-1; Lewis A, 3·1; P.E., 3·2; Lyons, 3·2; Lewis B, 2·3; Badin, 1·3; P.W., 1·3; Farley B, 0-4; B.P.·B, 0·5. 

Sorin, Planner, Morrissey hold top spots 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
In interhall basketball action 
Thursday, Sorin maintained its one­
half game advantage in the Pac Ten 
while Flanner took a half-game lead 
in the ACC and Morlssey inched 
closer to Grace in the Big Ten. 
Pac Ten powers Sorin and St. Ed· 
ward's each continued their win­
ning ways Thursday, Sorin with a 
61-47 victory over Pangborn and St. 
Ed's with a 55-51 win over Stanford. 
Pangborn {2·3) led Sorin (5-0) into the fourth quarter by a score of 39-37. A tenacious full-court press by Sorin however forced countless Pangborn turnovers down the stretch, turnovers which Sorln quickly and consistently capitalized upon. Though Pangborn led by 1 0 at the half and by two at the end of three it was Sorin who prevailed in the end 61-47. 
Steve Beuerlein led the Otters with 19 points, 131n the second half, Chris Nanni added 15. For Pangborn, Thorn Geyer and Chris Rawson each scored a dozen. 
Meanwhile In the Pac Ten, St. Ed's ( 4-1 ) remained one game behind front-running Sorln with a 55-51 vic­tory over Stanford ( 2-3 ). The loss dropped Stanford three games be­hind the pace. 
Ed Roohan scored 14 points, while teammates Chip Roohan added 12 and Jim Sower chipped in 
EHIO 
.......-------Wednesday, January 30 
BEACH PARTY 

free draft to anyone in shorts or bathing suit 
Thursday, January 31 

GRIZZLY PROMO 
$1 Grizzly's all night & shirts, mirrors, prizes 
Friday, February 1 

25• BEERS :i~"J 
Saturday, February 2 
HAPPY HOUR 
soe 14oz drafts 
75e G&Ts 

Coming Up••• TOGA PARTY 
11 to collectivelypace St. Ed's to vic· 

tory. Stanford was led by the high 
man for the game, Shawn O'Grady 
with 20 points. 
In Big Ten action Thursday, 
league leader Grace ( 4-0) was idle 

while Morrissey ( 4-1 ) gained a half 
game with a 48-32 victory over 
Howard ( 0-5 ). 
Hot shooting from the field by 
Howard combined with ineffective 
experimental defenses by Morrissey 
led to the close 21-14 Morrissey 
halftime lead. 

"With the aquisition of some of 
the, football players, we wanted to 
try some new defenses to see just 
what we could and could not do," 
explained Morrissey captain Steve 
Treacy. "Our man to man defense Is 
what really worked for us." 
In the second half Morrissey 
switched to its man to man and the 
Howard sharp-shooting ceased, the _result was a 48-32 Morrissey win. 
In other Big Ten action, Keenan 
pulled off a mild upset by defeating 
Off Campus 4 5-41. 
Keenan ( 2-3) led comfortably at the half 21-12. After intermission, however, the Off-Campus offense began to heat up with 19 third quar­ter points to cut the gap to 32-31. In the end however, it was Keenan who prevailed 45-41. Keenan was sparked by Jim Reid's 13 points and Riek Bliha's 10. .Off-Campus' leading scorer was Dave Taiclet with 12. 
Moving on to the ACC, Flanner 

A 
edged out to a half-game lead i_n that 
division with a 45-37 win over Stan­
ford. 

Stanford (3·2) shot out to an early 12-8 second quarter advantage but from there on In It was all Flanner. Flanner ( 4-1) led by six at the half, seven at the end ofthree and eight at the final whistle. The loss puts Stan­ford one game behind Flanner. 
In one other ACC game, Zahm {2-2) defeated Cavanaugh (0-4) 50· 45. 

Cavanaugh shot out to a com­manding first half lead but Zahm kept chipping away and when Zahm's Mark Palaski hit an acrobatic one-bander at the end of the half Cavanaugh's once comfortable lead was down to nine. 
In the second half Zahm's zone press and size advantage took con­trol of the game as Cavanaugh's lead was erased, Zahm prevailed 50-45. 
In ACC action today Off-Campus (3·1) will be taking on Zahm (2-2) and Alumni ( 2· 2) will be playing Dil­lon ( 3·1 ). In the Big Ten two of the league leaders will battle it out. Un­defeated Grace at 4-0, will take on third running Dillon ( 3· 1 ). In the other Big Ten game Holy Cross ( 1· 
3) will play Alumni (2·2). 
In Pac Ten action two defeated teams will do battle to see who stays in the cellar, Fisher vs. Off-Campus, while Flanner {2·2) will take on Grace ( 3·1 ). 




48 Grumble 56 Siam. field 

The Daily Crossword 
50 Lock of hair measure 52-Heights 57 Back of the 53 "-of the neckACROSS 41 Nastase of 68 Make callous 12 Shelter People" 58 Away from 1 Stadium sounds tennis 69 Russ. refusal 13 Work units 54 Personal shore5 Roller 42 Govt. agents 21 Cartoonist history 62 Soul: Fr. 

9 Show feeling 43 Eye sugges-Thomas 55 Division word 63 Poker money 14 Coupd'-tively 22 Steinbeck's
DOWN
44 Fashion "The-" 45 Gandhi •26 Circular band Monday's Solution 
15 Wading bird Desert
47 Austen heroine 27 School: Fr. 
16 Circus man efflorescence
49 Ancient Irish­

17 Munich mister man 2 Eroded 18 Undiluted 29 In a lazy way 19 Metallic sound 30 Thwart
3 Groucho's 51 Solicit 
brother 
31 Gallows
54 Boutonniere 4 Bare all 20 Hallucinatory 59 Dickinson of 

33 Invoke evil 
beasts films 5 Winnieof 

upon

23 October gem 60 Orient the comics 
24 Origin 
61 Vault 6 Have-in 25 Gobi-like 34 Matured
one's bonnet 28 Not anchored 35 Reacting with 32 Make suitable 64 Laurel and terror Freberg 7 Small tube 37 Type of sch. 36 Baker's helper 65 Graf-8 Kefauver 40 Arboreal 38 Bouquet 66 Arsenal stuff 9 Lined marsupial 39 "The Forsyte -" 67 Holding 10 Clumsy 44 Indian dress 40 Rounded hill implements 11 Arab monarch) 46 Niche 



for late ni&..·lt IDGhchies !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!1111 
LOOK 
INTO 

DARBY'S 
~-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii in the basement of Lafortune 



NEWHOVRS 
3:00 to 7:00pm 

2nd Floor LaFortune, Room 2-C, off Chatauqua Ballroom 
-

Tank McNamara Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 



__2_9_,._19_8_s___p_a_g_e_I_l 
Campus 

•12 
-1 p.m. -Debate, "On the Moral Obligation of the U.S. Role in International AJfairs," Dr. Harvey Seifert (Claremont College) vs. Dr. Ernest Lefever (Director of the Ethics & Policy-Washington, D.C.), Sponsored by Thomas). White Center for Law and Government, Room 115 Law School. 

•3:30 
p.m. -Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar, "Hydrodynamics Interactions in Suspensions of Non-spherical Particles," Prof. Sangtae Kim, U. of Wisconsin, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 

•4 
p.m.-Civil Engineering Research Seminar, "The First Passage Problem for a Simple Hysteretic Structure," Prof. B.F. Spencer, University ofIllinois, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•4:30 
p.m.-Keenan Revue Ticket Distribudon, Chautauqua Ballroom, Free, limit -Two Per Per­son. 

•7-9 
p.m. -Presentadon, Texas Instruments, For Jrs. & Srs. MA, MBA in EE, Math-Comp. Cone. and MIS Majors, Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services, Free. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m. -Ford Theater Movies Fllm, "Body Heat," Engineering Auditorium. 

•7 
p.m.-Speaker, Northern Trust Co. ofChicago, 124 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by Arts and Letters Business Society, Free-All Are Welcome. 

•7 
p.m. -lnformadonal Meedng, SBPIVP Candi­dates, little Theater, LaFortune, Sponsored by OBUD. 

•7:30 
& 9:30 p.m. -Tuesday Night Fllm Series, "The Story ofAdele H.," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -lnformadonal Meedng, Student Senate Candidates, little Theater, LaFortUne, Sponsored byOBUD. 


TV Tonight 
8:00p.m.  16  TheA-Team  
1:1:  TheJdfersons  
1:8  Three's A Crowd  
34  Nova  
8:30p.m.  1:1:  Allee  
1:8  Who's the Boss?  
9:00p.m.  16  Riptide  
1:1:  Movie  
1:8  State of the Union Address  
34  Ascent ofMan  
10:00 p.m.  16 34  Remington Steele Austin City limits ­Exile  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
1:1:  22 Eyewitness News  
1:8  Newswatch 28  
34  Movie ­They Made Me a Criminal  


Tuesday,January 29, 1985-page 12
Seorts 
Ken Barlow leads Notre Dame over Providence 

The Observer/carol Gales 

Ken Barlow (44) scored 17 points in tbe second ba/flast night, including this slam dunk, while RayKnight(32) and tbe rest oftbe . Providence Friars looked on. Barlow led tbe 1risb in an 11-point spurt that secured tbe victory in tbe ACC. Phil Wolf describes tbe game in bis story at right. 
Five-team meet cancelled 
ByPHRWOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 
Ken Barlow exploded in the 
second half last night to lead the 
Notre Dame basketball team past 
Providence College, 70-63, in the 
ACC. After scoring only two points 
in the first half of the game, Barlow 
netted 1 7 in the second period to 
help the Irish overcome a four-point 
halftime deficit and win the game. 
As the second half got underway, the crowd, which had been relatively quiet during the first half, came to life, and the team followed suit. Aggressive defense and control of the boards at both ends of the floor gave Notre Dame the edge it needed to pull away from the Friars. 
The Irish scored 11 unanswered points to open the second period, and Barlow accounted for seven points during that streak. He ended the game with a team-high 19 points and 13 rebounds. 
Irish head coach Digger Phelps said that he had explained to the 6­10 forward in the first half that he had to play more aggressively, and Barlow did just that. 
"He had the exertion to go in there and make things happen," Phelps said, "especially in the offen-· sive rebounding situations. I told him he had to be more active on the boards, and I think that's where he asserted himself. 
"When Kenny plays aggressively, he's a complete player. I thought in the second half he played as a com­plete player. He got into the game." 
Barlow explained how his rebounding helped him to get into the game after such a poor showing in the first half (two rebounds, 1-for­3 shooting). 
"In the second half, fortunately, I was able to crash and get some rebounds and get some easy bas-

Constable qualifies for NCAAs 

By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
Heavy snow and freezing temper­atures converted a scheduled five team indoor track meet into a non­scoring dual meet between Notre Dame and DePaul Friday in the ACC. 
The Irish were missing some of the top members of their team be­cause ofparticipation in the Millrose Games in New York City and the Bally Invitational in Chicago, but the meet still had some memorable moments. 
junior high jumper Uoyd Con­stable once again provided the best effort ofthe meet. Constable jumped seven feet, three and one-half inches, which qualifies him for the NCAA Indoor Track Championships on March 8 and 9. In addition, his jump broke his old Notre Dame and ACC record of 7-2, which he set just last week against Iowa. 
Constable jumped 6-8 in order to defeat teammate Chuck Unsen­mayer. He then proceeded to clear the bar at 7-0 and the record height, each on his first try. The bar was then placed at 7-'5, but Constable missed on all three attempts, but just barely on his first attempt. 
Phil Gilmore was the only Irish 

-participant to capture two events. The senior sprinter won the 60-yard da~h in a fine time of 6.49, and later posted a winning time of 32.46 for the 300-yard dash. Notre Dame freshman Chris Mat­teo and former Irish captain Perry Stow, now of the Notre Dame Track Club, provided plenty ofclose com­petition at the pole vault pit. Stow, who rank..'i third on the all time Notre Dame list, cleared 1 5-6 on his last attempt to win the event. He later missed on all three attempts at 16-0. 
Matteo looked good clearing 14-6 and 1 5-0 on his first attempt. He would have won the event because of fewer misses if Stow had failed at 1 5-6. 
Notre Dame freshman Rick Mul­vey took control of first place half way through the two mile run, and went on to win in a time of 9:43.9. The first mile had many lead changes, but once Mulvey took the lead, he never relinquished it. Mike Burns, a Notre Dame freshman, n:mained close to Mulvey and finished second in a time of9:45.3. 
Two Irish freshmen, john Dadamio and Paul Duvair, provided plenty ofexcitement on the track by holding off fast charging DePaul run­ners to win their events. Dadamio won the 880-yard run in 1:59.7, two tenths of a second ahead of Eric Camplin of DePaul. Duvair finished four tenths ofa second ahead ofCarl Webb ofDePaul to win the 600-yard dash in a time of 1:16.2. 
Irish sophomore joel Autry proved his versatility on the track and the jumping pit. He captured first place in the long jump, with a leap of twenty-two feet, three and one-half inches. He then went on to place third in both the triple jump and the 60-yard dash. 
Freshmen john Sorenson and Tom Mick were the final Irish win­ners. Sorenson captured the 60-yard high hurdles by .01 seconds with a 
see TRACK, page 8 

kets," Barlow said. "It helped my 
confidence out on my jump shot be­
cause I felt I was in the flow, and I 
was ready to score some points." 

joseph Price started off the 
scoring for the night with a 20-foot 
jumper that put the Irish on top at 
2-0. Notre Dame led by as much as 
seven points and did not trail until 
just 1:55 remained in the half. Then, 
Mathew Palazzi hit a jumper from 
the top of the key to give the Friars 
the lead at 27-25. 

Providence extended its lead to 
31-25 before Barlow hit from the 
right baseline with four seconds left 
to bring the Irish within four at the 
intermission. 

Notre Dame outrebounded the Friars by only one ( 11-10) in the first half, committed eight turnovers and shot only 48 percent from the field ( 1 0-for-21). Providence, mean­while, hit 65 percent of its shots from the floor ( 13-for-20 ). 
In the second half, however, the Irish defense became too much for the Friars to overcome, and their shooting fell to 3 7 percent ( 10-for­
27) for the half. Providence coach joe Mullaney said that Notre Dame's 
defense was only partially respon­
sible for his team's downfall, though. 
"It was a combination of their 
defense getting better the second 
half," Mullaney said, "and our In­
ability to hit the shots plus handle 
the ball well enough to get open. 
"I thought they (the Irish) picked up the defensive tempo a little bit and they made it a little tougher in the halfcourt We forced a couple (shots), and then we missed some we had. 
"It's not quite that unusual that we've had problems with our of­fense this year," the Friars' coach continued. "Defensively we usually hang in pretty welL (We had) a pretty good defensive effort against a very good team." 
Notre Dame guard David Rivers, who scored 12 points for the Irish, described how his team was able to control the game in the second half. 
"We just regrouped and tried to get them to do some things that they wouldn't normally do by pressuring them with the full-court press," Rivers said. "After our big men 
see IRISH, page 9 

Wrestlers make semis, then lose tournament 
ByJOE BRUNEm 
Sports Writer 

It always seems like there is a cru­cial point in any sporting event that will affect the outcome. For Notre Dame wrestling coach Fran McCann, a series of one point defeats in this past weekend's Na­tional Catholic Collegiate Tourna­ment made all the difference in the world. 
After the Irish earned the right to 
send eight wrestlers to the semi­
finals of the two-day tournament in 
South Orange, N.j., they suffered a 
let down on Sunday and lost four 
one point matches. 

"Losing those four matches was critical," said the first-year Irish mentor. "We did a pretty good job, but we let it slip away. We had a chance to win. On the first day we did what we had to do, but we couldn't come through on the next day." 
A turnaround in those four matches would have propelled the Irish to a first place finish, instead McCann's troops had to settle for a second place finish behindjohn Car­roll University. 
Still McCann had to be pleased with the performance of his young squad. 
"We went in knowing it would be tough to win, and we knew that we would need some breaks to do it," said McCann. "We didn't have the people to be the champions, but overall there were a lot of positive things. Looking from the positive side, all the guys that placed will be back next year." 
McCann was right in saying that he didn't have the champions, and only junior john Krug wound up with an individual first place finish. Krug had a tough time in the finals, and it took him until the last minute of the match to secure the victory. 
"Krug did a nice job," McCann praised. "I told him what to do and he did it. That's great." 

However, McCann did have three other wrestlers who made it to the finals, including two freshmen, Ron Wisniewski ( 134) and Ken Kasler ( 150). Carl Hildinger, a 118-pound 
sophomore  was  the  other  Irish  
wrestler  to  advance  to  the  last  
round.  

"Hildinger did a really good job," said McCann. "He really hustled, and he just wrestled his heart out." 
Sophomore Dave Helmer was one of the wrestlers to lose a one-point semi-final match. The 177-pounder was forced to wrestle up to the 190­pound class, but he still managed to beat the number one seed in an ear­lier match. 
Johnson 
• 
may sign with USFL 
Senior tri-captain joe johnson has signed a contract to try out for the Tampa Bay Bandits of the USFL, The Observer learned yes­terday. 
A source dose to johnson has verified that the strong safety has agreed to sign with the Bandits, although he is not guaranteed a spot on the final roster. Reportedly, he will receive $30,000 to try out with Tampa Bay and $90,000-100,000 if he makes the team. 
The 6-2, 192-pound johnson tinished his Notre Dame career with 182 tackles and four inter­ceptions after earning letters in each ofhis four years. 

Notre Dame bigb jumper Lloyd Constable qualified for the NCAA Indoor Track Champion­ships in March at last weekend's meet against 









