Domer dictionary-page 13 


VOL XX, NO.1 
SATIJRDAY, AUGUST 24, 1985 
ND, SMC freshmen: They've only just begun 
Freshmen start life under dome 
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
News Editor 
The Clas.'l of 1989 began arriving on the Notre Dame campus this weekend to begin their four years under the golden dome. 
Traffic on Notre Dame Avenue andJuniper Road will continue to be congested as the approll.lmately 1,830 freshmen arrive to begin their college careers. 
Pat Leonardo, assistant director ol admissions, said this year's crop ol freshmen are academically on paJ with thC' cla.'ISrs from the prevlou; ten years. 
"The thing we are most impresse• 1 
with is their enthusiasm," Leonard> 

said. 
About 2,950 students wh> applied were invited to attend Notre Dame by the admissions depart­ment, but only 1,830 accepted tt,e invitation, Leonardo said. This is routine, he said. Also routine Is fi 1r some of the freshmen who agreed to attend Notre Dame to not show up. "There's a certain amount of atf n­tion every year," he said. 
The size of this year's freshman 

class Is slightly larger than last yc·ar, 
when I , 790 freshmen carne to 
campus. Two years ago, in IS•IH, 
I,775 freshmen experienced 

orientation weekend. 
About 1 ,300 of this year's fresh­man class are men, and '530 are women. 

Freshman Studies offers support throughout year, Hofman says 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
Copy Editor 
You won't find any freshmen in 
the College ofScience or the Col­
lege of Engineering at Notre 
Dame. Nor are there any fresh­
men majoring in business or arts 
and letters. 
The freshmen can be found, 
however, In a program that is at­
tracting national attention, ac­
cording to its dean. 
The program? The Freshman Year of Studies. Its dean? E"mil Hofman, now serving his 15th year as head of the program. 
"The Freshman Year ofStudies Is, In effect, the college for fresh­men. It Is responsible for arrang­Ing the academic program for freshmen and for providing the support systems especially needed by freshmen," Hofman said. 
The goal of the program, begun In 1962 and embarking on its present course in 1973, Is to "emphasize to a freshman the meaning and purpose of higher education," said Hofman. 
"We try to impress upon them that the experience of a Notre Dame education is a liberal education," he said. 
Some Institutions have varia­
tions of Notre Dame's program, 
according to Hofman. "A large 
number of universities now 
come to me for consultation about our program," he said. "It has attracted national attention." 
The Freshman Year of Studies Is successful because "ofwhat we do to relieve (students') anxiety," said Hofman. That anxiety, he said, stems from "particular problems and par­ticular needs (of freshmen) that require special attention, such as adjustment to a new situation and planning one's future. 
"Very few freshmen have a 
clear idea ofwhat is to happen to 
them at a university," he said. "A 
large number of them view the 
university experience to be 
career or job oriented. This view 
causes many problems." 
For example, Hofman said, al­though there are students who know what they want to do In life upon entering the University, "relatively few know exactly what career they they want to pursue and therefore do not know how to fashion their educa­tion." 
1be Freshman Year of Studies offers several support systems, said Hofman, Including a guidance program, the Freshman Learning Resource Center, and special activities for freshmen. 
In addition to the support sys­tems provided by the Freshman Year of Studies, Hofman credited the "magnificent efforts in the ot­her support systems (at Notre Dame), like the residence halls, the University Ministry, and stu­dent activities" for the success of the program. 

Hofman also cited the quality of the students that Notre Dame attracts. According to Hofman, Notre Dame's "freshman class, year after year, is classified in the highest category ofthe American Council on Education system," which, he said, is based on average Scholastic Aptitude Test scores. 
According to Hofman, having students with high SAT scores Is not enough. "A large number of universities have good students, but still have a very high drop-out rate for students during and after their freshman year." 
In fact, he said, "Nationally, the 
average drop-out rate for fresh­
men is about 35 percent." 
But, Hofman said proudly, 
"Ours Is about one percent." 


Wakeup 

Construction noise and flying dustfill the airas studtmts return to campus for the 1985-86 school year. Two major construcNon projects continue on tbe Notre Dame grounds: LaFortune Student Center (at rlgbt) and tbe Law School (above). 
Renovation at LaFortune began during tbe summer, slightly behind schedule. Currently, many LaFortune mainstays bave been rel­ocated; dust and inconvenience will be ti;Je norm. 
SMCclass has quantity and quality 
By MARGIE KERSTEN 

Assutant SaintMary'I Editor 
This year's freshman class at Saint Mary's College is the largest since 1981, according to Mary Ann Rowan, director of admissions for the College. More than 500 fresh­man will be arriving on campus this weekend. 
"It's an excellent class that Is strong both In quality and quantity," Rowan said. She added that 30 per­cent ofthe freshman were In the top 1 0 percent of their graduating high school class. From 1,100 applica­tions, 850 women were accepted to attend Saint Mary's, she said. 
Thirty-four states and seven foreign countries are represented In the class of 1989. M011t of the stu­dents are from Illinois, Rowan added. 
The class is a positive addition to Saint Mary's because of a "well planned admissions program with support from the faculty and the col­lege administration," said Rowan. 
The end ofsummer and the begin­ning of another school year Is a transition period for most students, but especially for freshmen. 
Some freshmen living in hall study lounges 
By MARY HEALY This year, of the 2950 students StaffReporter who were accepted so far, ap­proximately 1830 have sent In their 
Some Notre Dame freshmen arc confirmations, said Leonardo. He starting college right off In study added that fifty percent fewer than lounges -but not to hit the books. Be· last year have cancelled their con­cause of overfilled dorms, 41 men firrnations. have had to set up their bunks tern-According to Evelyn Rrlnebold, porarlly In the study rooms of Plan-director of student residences, the ncr and Grace halls. policy of "overbooking" Is partly to 
This year only men are In make up for not holding a room lot­temporary housing, although last tery for upperclassmen. "It's our year study lounges were home to 27 answer to asking seniors and juniors women and 41 men, some for the to move off campus," she said. She entire first semester. added that Housing has used the 
The study lounge residents will be lounges for this purpose for six or gradually moved out as other stu· seven years. dents drop out or move off campus, The freshmen are set up In five a process that can take anywhere lounges in each of Flanner and from two weeks to several months, Grace, with four men to a lounge. depending on the date freshmen They are supplied with most of the sent In their enrollment conftnna-furniture found In ordinary rooms, tions. Currently, only those who but there Is no sink and no phone. confirmed after June 1 0 are wilhout And there Is little chance to give the a room. room a personal touch, since Its oc-
According to Pat Leonardo, assls-cupants could move across campus tant director of admissions, the at any time. makeshift quarters are necessary be-"It's very unsettling. It's very dlf­cause the Admissions Office accepts ficult for freshmen. I don't Uke it at more students to Notre Dame than aU, but that's the way It's been," said there is space for, knowing that Rrlnebold, who has been director of many will not come. student residences since last year. 
The office must estimate the num-Brian Carney, a freshman who was ber who will cancel at the lut placed in a Grace study lounsc be­minute or not show up Cor enroll-cause of a registration mix-up, ment. agreed. "It Isn't too hot," he aaid. "I 
"There's a lot of guesswork in-don't want to complain, but it can be volved. It's better over than under," kind ofa drag." said Leonardo, nodng that even ten The lounge Carney Is ln Is much fewer students than there Is room larger than dorm rooms, but there Is for means •100,000 less for the Uni-only two desks for the four people in versity. it. 

---------------------~-----------~-------~--------~------------~ 
The Observer 



In Brief 
Police inJohannesburg, South Africa, tired shot­guns at black rioters in Cape province yesterday, killing six and wounding 20, and jailed nearly 700 children for boycotting classes in Soweto. Some of the children were 6 or 7 years old. Bishop Des­mond Tutu negotiated for their freedom, then used a bullhorn to tell hundreds ofworried parents outside a police station, "All those un­der 13 will be released immediately without being charged. Those over 13, the police are taking their particulars and they will be released to their parents." -AP 
A 13-year-old AIDS victimin Kokomo, Ind., who has been barred from school this fall will be connected to the clas­sroom via a telephone hookup to his home beginning Monday, school officials said yesterday. Ryan White, a hemophiliac who con­tracted acquired immune deficiency syndrome through a blood transfusion, has been out of school since December. The seventh­grader would have started school Monday, but Western School Corp. officials refused to allow Ryan to enroll because they fear the boy's condition could harm other students. -AP 
A crackdown on alcohol abuse is being planned at Purdue University. The school plans to decrease alcohol abuse and events that might encourage it, from rock concerts to student parties to athletic events, university officials said. Barbara Cook, the dean of students and task force chairman, said she will suggest that the task force form about eight committees, each as­signed to one ofan area ofconcern such as effective campus alcohol­education programs; alcohol abuse at university and student organizational events; fraternity, sorority and co-op events; off­campus drinking; residence halls; social climate ofcampus and com­munity; sources for individual alcohol-abuse treatment; and ethical considerations and public-relations issues. -AP 
The Miss America Pageant may be known for its glamor, but Miss Indiana says she sees it more as a prolonged job interview. "To really answer questions is exactly what is important, as if Miss America were a job interview, which is exactly what this is for -a job for one year," said Laurie jean Broderick of Elkhart. "I've already made some contacts that can help in my future career. That keeps me feeling positive." Broderick, preparingfor the pageant that ends Sept. 14 in Atlantic City, NJ., plans to pursue a career in busi­ness with fitness mixed in, perhaps by running a fitness center. -AP 
Of Interest 
David Stockman, former director of the Office of Management and Budget, will be campaigning for U.S. Senator Dan Quayle (R-Ind.), during a stop in South Bend next Wednesday. Stockman will appear at a fundraising reception at the home of Er­nestine Raclin, 1st Source Corp. chairman. Stockman and Quayle served together in the House of Representatives from 1976-80, when Stockman represented Michigan's Fourth Congressional Dis­trict. -The Observer 
The scavenger hunt, begun at 8 am. today, will continue until 5 this evening. In order to be eligible for prizes, Notre Dame freshmen must submit their scavenger sheets before 8 p.m. Tours ofNotre Dame for freshmen and their parents will leave from the Main Circle hourly from 2 p.m. until 4 p.m., with those at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. offered in Spanish as well as in English. Beginning tonight at 6, freshmen cango Hawaiian at the Saint Mary's Luau on the Dining Hall Green at the College. Guests ofSaint Mary's freshmen can pur­chase tickets for S5.50 and 13.25 for those 12 and under. And last but not least, a carnival and dance at Stepan Center, complete with a fog and light show and featuring "The Music King," is scheduled from 9 
p.m. until midnight tomorrow for all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's freshmen. -The Observer 

Weather 
Welcome to weather in South Bend. Today it will be cloudy with a 60 percent chance of showers. The temperature will peak in the lower 70s. Tonight, clouds will accom­pany a 50 percent chance of showers, and a brisk low in the upper 50s. The clouds will remain tomorrow, and there will be a 30 per­cent chance ofshowers. The high will be in the 


lower 70s. -The Observer 

The~Obse~WI'­

lbe Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the studentsof the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( 120 per se· mester) by writing lbe Obeerver, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, lndiaru1 46556. 
lbe Observer is a member of The 
AAoclated Preu. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 

Design Editor....................)ohn A. Mennell Design Assistant......................... Tom Small Typesetter .......................... M. E. Harrington News Edftor .............................Scott Bearby Copy Editor.............•.•....... Mark Pankowski Sports Copy Editors ..................... Phil Wolf jelfBiumb Viewpoint Copy Editor. M. E. Harrington Viewpoint Layout.....•.•.•.•.... Kevin Becker Features Copy Editor............... Mary Healy Features Layout ........................ Mary Healy AdDesign ..........................•... Anne Culligan Mary Carol Creadon Jim Hagan et a!. Photographer.....•...................... Pete Laches 
Saturday, August 24, 1985 -page 2 


As time goes by 
Dejavu. 

just as the Classof1989 unpacks its stereos, sweaters, popcorn poppers and more sweaters this weekend, so did our Domer ancestors a century ago. 
Through the past century the tradition that is Notre Dame has survived fires, the admission of women, and losing football seasons, but life under the Dome would be unrecognizable to the Classof1889 -all 20 ofthem. 
Besides the absence of women, the most obvious change is the campus itself. What are now buildings were then men. Father Thomas Walsh was the Univer­sity president, to be succeeded by Father Andrew Mor­rissey in 1893. Father John Zahm was a physical chemist. 
In 1889, the campus's latest structural addition was Sorin Hall. The first building composed entirely of private rooms for students, Sorin offered its residents the most modern of facilities. "The building is com­modious, thoroughly ventilated, and the rooms and cor­ridors are well-lighted, and comfortably heated at all times," according to a Uni­versity bulletin from that year. 
Although the dome rested on the same administration building that now stands, underneath there were a few differences, including an armory on the first floor, complete with bayonets. Next door, in the Music Hall (now known as Washington Hall), were the dressing rooms of the Bicycle Club and the Athletic Association. 
Buses now shuttle stu­dents to downtown South Bend for shopping and en­tertainment, but in 1889 a University bulletin outlined the benefits of a rural campus: "Its comparative isolation insures immunity from distractions ofevery kind; ... association with per­sons of depraved tastes and bad habits is necessarily avoided." 
Soon the Class of 1989 will be introduced to du Lac, the disciplinary bible many freshmen may choose to hide in their bottom dresser drawers. But whenhitwith a fine for using an air conditioner or rotisserie in your dorm room, (both of which are prohibited) think of those in the Class of 1889 who were saddled with the following discipline code: 
•All students were required to rise at the same time in the morning, no later than 6:30a.m. 

Sarah Hamilton 
Editor-in-Chief 
•All 
students were required to take meals at the same hours during the day. · 

•All 
students were required to retire no later than 10 p.m. 

•"No 
student shall leave university grounds without permission of the president or vice president, or the persons delegated to represent them." 

•"The 
use of tobacco is strictly forbidden, except to such students ofthe Senior Department as receive from their parents written permission to use it." 

•"The 
use of intoxicating liquors is absolutely prohibited under all cir­cumstances." 

•"To 
guard against clan­destine and improper correspondence, the presi­dent reserves the right to su­pervise letters to and from students." 




Rather than The Obser­ver, last century's Domers turned to The Scholastic, a weekly magazine, for all the campus news. A regular item in the Saturday publication was the Roll of Honor which 
recognized students "for their politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance 
Paralleling The Observer's Personal Classified sec­tion, The Scholastic published Local Items. Among those read by the students of 1899 was an item ob­viously posted by the administration: "NOTICE. -The centre walk through the paterre in front of the main building is not intended as a drive for carriages or buggies." 
So as you settle in to enjoy four years of unrestricted sleeping hours, almost 80 more buildings, tobacco and uncensored letters, give a thought to the Class of 2089 who will move into their co-ed dorms with video phones, laser writers, sweaters, jet shoes and more sweaters. 


The Observer 
communication as job 


By TIIERESA GUARINO 
SaintMary's Execut{ve Edftor 
Freshmen at Saint Mary's may take for granted the extended parietal hours and lofts in their Regina rooms, but these are two changes In College policy which were prompted by student government last year. 
Student government at Saint Mary's takes the form of three main bodies: the Board of Governance, the Academic Council, and the Programming Board. 
Proposing changes in policy comes under the jurisdiction of the Board ofGovernance, chaired by the student body president. Residence hall and class presidents are mem· 
bers of the Board of Governance, in addition to student commissioners. A Notre Dame representative and a resident advisor representative also attend Board meetings. 
The Programming Board is a student government body that is chaired by the vice president for stu· dent affairs. The Programming Board plans activities and coor· dinates student-related events on campus. 


Despite the August beat, Notre Dame band mem­der to practice with the oldest marching band in the bers continue to march across campus. They landfor the upcomingfootball season. arrived earlier than most students this week in or-
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Extended Hours 

Tuesday, August 27 and Wednesday, August 28 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
YOUR FUlL-SERVICE COUEGE STORE 
• 
BICYCLE B~NUS 
Register to win a FIRENZE 12-SPEED BIKE. Fill out the cou­
• 
pon t return it to the Bookstore. No purchase required. NAME_______________________________________ 
~ ;::::_s_s__________________________________ __ 


···~ 
I on any I purchase inI Housewares or Home Furnishings I 
I 
Sheets-Pillows-BlanketsI Curtains -Towels -Small Appliances 
I 
I 
I offer volld until September 30, 1985I must present ot time of purchose
I 
I 
I 
I I JCPenney 
I University Park Mall I Mishawaka 
ND government aims at better student life 
By FRANK LIPO 
CopyCbtef 
"We the students, in order to form a more perfect University ... " 
Although these words are not in· scribed in gold letters above the doors of the student government offices in LaFortune Student Center, the different branches of student government attempt in diverse ways to improve the quality ofstudent life at Notre Dame. 
Student Government 
Campus-wide student govern· ment is established by a written con· stitution. The constitution establishes the positions of student body president, vice president, and treasurer, and allows a cabinet to be chosen by the student body presi· dent. This is the traditional core of student government at Notre Dame. 
The StudentActivides Board 
The constitution also establishes the Student Activities Board by means of a steering committee of student government representatives. 
By the use of subcommittees, the SAB runs the annual Stepan Mall where students are able to rent refrigerators and buy furniture for their rooms. The SAB also coor· dinates other events throughout the year. 

r------------------------------------------------------,
Save 20% 
Save 20% 
on any purchase of National Brand Athletic Shoes 
Hike®-Puma® -Converse® Adidas® -Brooks® -Autry® -Reebok® 
offer valid until September 30, 1985 must present at time of purchose 

JCPenney 
University Park Mall Mishawaka 
Residence hall and class vice presidents are members of the Programming Board. Student com· missioners include publicity, off· campus, athletics, social and traditional events. 
The third student government body, the Academic Council, is chaired by the vice president for academic affairs and public rela· tions. It consists of student representatives from each academic department of the College and various College committees. The Academic Council provides a forum for student discussion of different academic policies and proposed changes. 
Anne Marie Kollman is this year's student body president at Saint Mary's, with Julie Harmon and Jeanne Heller as vice presidents for student affairs and academic affairs and public relations, respectively. 
Heller sees student government as a liaison between students and the College administration. "We are a major communication link between students and the administration," she said. "We serve in getting there· quests ofstudents acted upon." 
Student government offices are located on the third floor of Haggar College Center. 
Another recent responsibility of the SAB has been the organization of student-run businesses such as the Irish Gardens, a flower shop; Rock DuLac, a record/ticket store; and The Underground, a t·shirt shop. 
The Student Senate 
The Student Senate also is es­
tablished by the constitution. It is 
composed of representatives from 
other branches of government, an 
elected off-campus senator and four 
elected on-campus senators. The 
student body president acts as the 
chairman ofthe senate. 
The senate determines the fiscal policies of student government and allocates funds. 
TheJudicial Councll 
The Judicial Council also is es· tablished by the constitution. It is composed of the judicial board chairmen of each dorm. They vote once a year to elect a judicial coor­dinator who oversees the council. 
The council seryes to provide as· sistance to students accused of violating University rules and regulations. It also serves to foster greater student understanding of University rules, regulations and dis· ciplinary procedures. 
The Hall Presldencs' CouncJI 
The Hall Presidents' Council is composed of all 24 hall presidents, an elected off-campus commis· sioner, a secretary and a chairman. The HPC acts as a network of in· formation and a suppon system for the individual dorms and helps sponsor dorm events. For example, if a certain event works well in one dorm, that fact easily can be con· veyed to the presidents of other dorms. 
It meets once a week and has Its own constitution. 
The HPC also has legislative responsibilities. The HPC chairman and three other members hold Stu· dent Senate seats. The HPC receives and discusses weekly senate reports and sometimes is asked to ratify stu· dent government proposals. 
The Campus Life Councll 
The Campus Ufe Council is the part of student government respon· sible for passing or rejecting proposals initiated in the senate. It includes people from every aspect of the University. 
Each student's S35 studt"" tivities fee pays for the acti 

student government.
~-------------------------~--------------------------­
-----.......---~--------------­
~~-~--------~­
The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1985 -page 4 
Who's who among Notre Dame administrators 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, president 
As president, Hesburgh is ex· ecutive head ofthe University and is responsible for the general direction ofits affairs. He appoints most ofthe University staff and presides at all academic functions at which he is present. Hesburgh also is the public representative for Notre Dame, and he has been active in a variety of issues including civil rights and world hunger. 

Father Theodore Hesburgb 
Timothy O'Meara, provost 
As provost, O'Meara is the second officer of the University and is in charge in the absence of the presi· dent. He has responsibility, under the president, for the administra· tion, coordination, and develop· ment ofall of.the academic activities and functions of the University. The dean ofthe freshman year ofstudies, as well as the deans of the various colleges at Notre Dame, report to O'Meara. 

Timothy O'Ml!ara 
Father David Tyson, vice presi· dent for student affairs 
Tyson heads the student affairs department, which presides over student services, residence life, and student activities. He is liaison with the officers of the University, the graduate school, the four colleges, and the freshman year ofstudies. He is also in charge of the University ministry and rectors. 

Father David Tyson 
Father William Beauchamp, executive assistant to the president and executive vice president 
As executive assistant to the presi­dent and executive vice president, Beauchamp is involved in upper­level administration in a variety of different ways. He performs specific projects, such as chairing the al­cohol committee two years ago, and gathers information for the presi· dent and executive vice president. Beauchamp's responsibilities in· elude the Morris Inn and student laundry services. 
John Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life 
Goldrick is in charge of security, discipline, residence halls, and resi· dent assistants. He is also the liaison with the athletic department and lo· cal government. 
john Goldrick 



""March of Dimes 
~ -lllllilllllTH DEFEClS FOUNDATIONIIIi-

REFRIGERATORS For Rent 
(New 2.6 Cubic ft. Models) Call 282·2801 for student rate 3410 Western Ave 
Father Francis cafarelli, assis· tant vice president for student services 
Cafarelli's responsibilities include student facilities, health services, student government, career and placement services, student media, and specific student activities. 
Father Francis Cafarelli 
Emll Hofman, dean of freshman year ofstudies 
As dean of freshman year of studies, Hofman is in charge of all academic matters relating to fresh· men, ranging from scheduling to ar· ranging for college programs for freshmen entering their sophomore year. He provides a support system for freshmen, including counseling and study aid programs, and he ar· ranges freshman activities such as date nights. 
Emil Hofman 
Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for student affairs 
Lenz has responsibility for inter­national student affairs, minority stu­dent affairs, transfer students, and specific student activities. 
Sisterjean Lenz 
William Hickey Jr., director of food services 
As director of food services, Hickey is in charge ofthe North and South dining halls, the Oak Room, the Huddle, the deli, football concessions, and all vending machines at the University. He also oversees a campus-wide catering operation that serves functions such as Junior Parents' Weekend and commencement. 
Joni Neal, director ofstudent ac­tivities 
Neal is in charge ofa vast network of students and administrators which works to provide entertain· ment and activities for the students. Neal and her staff work in various capacities, ranging from creative programming and broadcasting to negotiating with agents and coor· dinating events. 
Daniel Winicur, registrar and 
dean ofadministration 

As registrar, Winicur is in charge 
of all record-keeping associated 
with academics. According to 
Winicur, this includes students' 
transcripts, course catalogues, class 
schedules, and student directories. 
He also oversees student registra· 
tion and enrollment as well as com­
mencement. As dean of 
administration, Winicur is in charge 
ofall academic buildings. 

WELCOME BACK! 
Checking 
Savings 

Travelers Checks 
24-Hour Money Card 

InstantAccess by Phone 
~·
.•.•.,• 

Right on Campus! 
We lookforward to serving you this year 
~ 

NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
FEDERALLY CHARTERED 
19033 Douglas Road 239-6611 

The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1985 -page S 
Hickey tops list of Saint Mary's administrators 


NAUGLES 
24 HOUR DRIVE THRU 
UMIT ONE COUPON PER CUSTOMER 
NOT YAUD WITH ANY OTHER PROMOnONAL OFFER 
EXPIRES 1-31-15 
NAUGLES 24 HOUR DRIVE THRU 
501 DIXIEWAV NORTH, ROSELAND 272·5455 
" ~ 
BU'Y' ONE NAUGLE BURGER ET ONE NAUGLE BURGER FR 
PRIVATE6B5
DANCER l:: 


Wllllam Hickey, acting president. 
Hickey, who is ultimately re~pon­sible for all academic and fiscal af­fairs at Saint Mary's, said having an acting president will not slow the College's growth. "This will be an active administration and we will be making decisions," Hickey said. An expansion in computer science studies and the completion of a 125 million fundraising program are two goals for the year, he said. Hickey has been acting president since John Du~n retired July l. 

Mary's is "Our department does public rela­tions, works with alumnae clubs and organizes fundraising drives," Durance said. Courier magazine, which Is sent to College alumnae, is one example of his department's work. 
Lawrence Durance 
Dorothy Feigl, acting vice presi­dent and dean offaculty. 
"I supervise the academic focus of the College," Feigl said. Her duties include keeping academic programs up to date, overseeing faculty selec­tion and making sure the students' academic needs are fulfilled. She is also professor and chairwoman of the chemistry department. 
Mary Ann O'Donnell 

MID • EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
............t JIHt ow.. FOODS 
SHAWB&WA·MUO&DERA·BABAGHBNOUJ 
HOMMUS-FELAFBL 
TltBBOULI SAI..AD 
SOUTH lEND • l.E~BS8 STYU 
• 
Pile SiiAIIed ~ OYitOS 

•O.fi#tt/ul 
Putrin• TurlaUII Cof(H 288-5639


Tun • .!retll:!OPM-9:30PM coMI'I.BTBCATEitiNG FOR 838 Portage
PAiff'IBS. BANQUE"n' 


lO~Discount for ND/SMC Students 
Mary Anne O'Donnell, director of student activities. 
O'Donnell works with student government organizations such as the Programming Board and the Board of Regents. She also helps or­ganize freshman orientation and commencement activities and advises the Blue Mantle, Saint Mary's yearbook. 
Patricia IUssmeyer, director of 
residence life. 

As director of Residence Ufe, Ris­smeyer supervises the five residence halls and the housing office at the College. She also oversees the resiqence staff and coordinates hall programs. 

Patricia Rissmeyer 

Sister Karol Jackowski, dean of student affairs. 
As the head of the student affairs office, Jackowski deals with the aspects of education occurring outside the classroom. Her office oversees six departments: Residence Ufe and Housing, Student Activities, Health Services, Athletics and Recreation, Campus Ministry and the Counseling and Career Development Center. 
Sister Karol]ackowski 
Jason UndowerJr., controller and business manager. 
Undower supervises all fiscal af­fairs of the College. This includes overseeing the maintenance and construction of College facilities and supervising the operation of the bookstore and the SAGA, the Col­lege's food service. 

jason Lindower ]r. 
Mary Feeley, director of campus ministry. 
Programs in sexuality education and peer ministry will be new services offered by Campus Mini­stry, headed by Feeley 

~~--~~--.----~--~-~~-­
The Observer 

Dance, scavenger hunt on tap for ND frosh 
BySCOTI BEARBY 
AssistantNews Editor 
Notre Dame freshmen with not­hing to do soon will become a rare breed as the Freshmen Orientation Committee kicks into high gearwith its weekend activities. 
Events began at 8 this morning with a scavenger hunt. Orlando Griego, chairman of the committee, hoped the first-annual hunt would be the "start ofa long-standing tradi­tion" offreshmen activities. 
Students are scheduled to wander 
the campus in search of answers to 
campus trivia until 5p.m. In order to 
be eligible for prizes, scavenger 
sheets must be submitted before 8 
p.m. 
Tomorrow night students will be 
treated to a carnival and dance at 
Stepan Center. According to Griego, 
games, prizes, and refreshments will 
be a panofthe fun. 
Freshmen will also have the op­
portunity to dance to the music of 
"The Music King," complete with a 
fog and light show. A carnival is 
scheduled from 9 p.m. until mid­
night for all Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's freshmen. 

For those students and parents who have not yet toured the campus, the Freshmen Orientation Committee will continue to offer tours today. Groups will leave from the Main Circle hourly from 1 p.m. until 4 p:m., with those at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. offered in Spanish as well as in English. 
Other events also are scheduled during the weekend in conjunction with the Freshmen Orientation Committee. Dean of the Freshmen Year ofStudies Emil Hofman and his department have planned welcome and introductory sessions tonight and tomorrow. 
According to Griego, his commit­tee also has been working closely with hall orientation committees to plan mixers, movies, and other hall sponsored events in between campus activities. 
Commenting on the committee's work, Griego said, "Freshmen Orientation 1985 will prove to be the most successful ever," and credited the large number of en­thusiastic volunteers for his op­timism. 
SMC goes Hawaiian as part of Orientation 
By SCOTI BEARBY 
AssistantNews Editor 
Saint Mary's freshmen should be constantly on the go based on the many activities the Saint Mary's Orientation Committee has planned for the weekend. 
Beginning tonight at 6 on the Dining Hall Green, incoming stu-. dents have the opportunity to go Hawaiian at the Saint Mary's Luau. According to the orientation com­mittee, good food, dancing, and socializing will be part ofthe night's festivities. 
Orientation Publicity Chairper­son Mary Beth Braun said Hawaiian dancers and tiki torches will add to the tropical atmosphere. 
Guests of Saint Mary's freshmen will be able to purchase tickets for S5.50, and S3.25 for those 12 and under. 
Socializing will continue on Sun­day night at the Pre-Dance Party on the Haggar College Center Terrace for both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's freshmen. During the party, Saint Mary's freshmen will be able to obtain tickets for the Stepan Center carnival dance, which will follow at 9p.m. 
Monday night freshmen will mix with upperclassmen for a Notre Dame and Saint Mary's "Anything Goes" contest. Billed as "the ul­timate icebreaker", the contest is scheduled to begin at 6 p.m. on the Dining Hall Green. 
After the "AnythingGoes" athletic competitions, the Notre Dame Stu­dentActivities Board is scheduled to hold an open air concert on Stepan Mall. 
Survival group meetings will con­tinue throughout the orientation period. According to the committee, the groups provide freshmen the op­
portunity to ask questions about 
Saint Mary's life and to help them ad­
just to surviving college life. 
We Need You! 
Work for 2 hours a week lay­ing out a daily newspaper. Stop in at The Observer of­fices for an application. 

r r 

1. 3rd floor, l.,aFortune Student Center_ 

Group meetings currently are scheduled for this afternoon and on Monday. According to Braun, the in­formal gathrerings will also con­tinue through October. 
In addition to the socializing, educational meetings will be scheduled for incorr.tng students today and tomorrow. Meetings &Jr parents and discussions about col­lege majors are among the events planned. 
After the initial transition to col­lege life, Saint Mary's will be spon­soring a freshmen trip to the Warren Dunes in Michigan. Buses arc scheduled to ~epart from the McCandless Hall parking lot at 9 
p.m. Saturday, August 31. 
Braun said the orientation ac­tivities are "really looking good" thanks to the approximately 200 people who are volunteering their time for the committee. 

Saturday~ August 24, 1985 -page 6 

It's a long dry road to the sea, but byMay of'89, ROTC freshmen. the adventure will finally begin for these Naval 

CORKTOWNE Ll !!~!,zv~c. 
State Road 23, ~ mile west ofMartin 's Supermarket 
Welcome BackStudents 
(Especially Campus Zoo Animals) .. 
KEGS$34.88 
Bud, Bud Light, and St:rohs Free Bag oflee with each Keg Cooler Tubs Available (Liberal Deposit Policy) 
Bud Quarts 
$9.99%case 
(while quantities last) 
277-6805 

BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! 
For your convenience Textbooks are now arranged by course number 
Extended bookstore hours on 
Tuesday, Aug. 27th and 
~ednesday,Aug.28th 
9 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
HAMM.ES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

~i~~~_()__i_ll___t__________________
sat-ur-da-y,_Au-gu-st-24_,1_98-5--pa-ge-7 
Pressure, parents and promises for ND family 
The following column originally ap­peared in the August 25, 1984 edition ofThe Obseroer. It was read to the students and parents of tbe Notre Dame Class of 1988 at Freshman Orientation. Although its content bas been revised for the Class of 1989, Its message remains uncbangea. 

Joe Murphy 
so it goes 

Other "Veteran Domers" no doubtedly will tell you, the Class of 1989, about Emil and about the alcohol policy. I will not. Instead, this column is about pressure, parents and promises. 
Last year at this time, I received a phone call from a man who had hoped his son would be a member of the class of 1989. The man asked that I tell his son how one becomes a "Domer" and what exactly "Domers" do. So being the man for others that I am, I met with the man's son. 
Young Bill reminded me of myself. Here he was, not even officially a senior in high school, already worried about college life. He ob­viously had been placing a great deal of pressure on himself to succeed and become a "Domer." I told him that you do not have to be "Domer" to be a success. 
The pressure Bill was facing was com­pounded by the fact that his parents, like many Catholic parents, wanted him to attend Notre Dame. Bill wanted to know whether he could get acccepted and whether he could survive at Notre Dame. I told him he would answer those two questions himselfin the near future. 

Unfortunately, Bill was not accepted. During your four years here, remember Bill and the thousands of other young students who would love to be where you are. I ask only that you make a simple promise to your­self because you are here and they are not: Promise yourself that you will leave Notre Dame a better person and that Notre Dame will be better place for your having been here. 
For the class of 1989, the question ofaccep­tance has been answered. I am sure though, the question of academic and social survival remains a nagging doubt hidden in the back of your mind. 

To the class of 1989, some simple advice is offered. Do not let the pressure get the best of you. Your parents will be just as proud of you whether you make the Dean's Honor List or not. Second, keep in close touch with your parents and relatives for they are a source of inspiration on many lonely nights. Third, stay particularly close to your grandparents for you are their golden dome which keeps them young. 
Fourth, remember it is a privllege to attend Notre Dame, but it is a privilege for which you are paying. Do not accept second-best from yourself or your school. Go beyond your potential and expect Notre Dame to go beyond its. That is all anyone can ask of you, and all you can ask of Notre Dame. Simply be the best. 
Fifth, and above all, remember that not everyone's life revolves around Notre Dame. Be proud, but always be humble. The purpose of your education is not to place you above the masses, but enable you to lead the masses. 
Today marks not only an arrival, but a departure. You are leaving leaving your family and joining ours. You are doing the one thing which your parents have feared from the day ofyour birth -you are growing up. 
So to the parents of this class, I merely say that it is OK to cry when you say goodbye. If you cry though, cry for the right reasons. Cry because you have given your children an op­portunity you probably never received. Cry because your children are no longer under your roof, and you will miss them. Cry be­cause you love them. 
Parents remember that for every parting there is a homecoming. Your children have left only your house, not you. Rejoice in this triumph. You have raised your children well. Call often, send surprises through the mall and one day four years from now your children will return having become the type ofpeople you are. That is a promise. 
joe Murphy ts a junior government & in­ternational relations major from Saint Louts, Missouri and the Viewpoint editor at The Obseroer. 


Experience the wonderful 'firsts' of college 
This column is for the new freshman classes ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's from someone who has been there, and has come out on the other side without too much damage. 
You arc entering a time ofnew experiences and new friends. You have come to this new 

Mary Ellen Harrington 
batteries not included 

beginning with old Ideas and impressions. We all enter Notre Dame with some precon­ceived Ideas ofwhat it will be like. Everyone is confronted with the difference between Notre Dame the myth and Notre Dame the reality. To some it happens sooner than toot­hers, but everyone eventually finds something about this place that Is different from their ex­pectations. 
Perhaps you will have roommate problems, or get stuck with a professor you don't like or you will run into problems deciding on a major. Whatever it might be, do not become disheartened and cynical. Do not lose sight of your dreams and your ideas about Notre Dame. 

No place Is perfect. Everything has faults and you will be running against them soon enough. Maybe you will get sick of spaghetti every Wednesday and tired of the tofu vegetables and unidentified meat in the dining halls. Maybe the football team will shame you before your friends by losing the first three. Maybe you will wonder if there is any social life here except SYR's. 
It has been said before (probably by your parents), but I will say it again. Get involved. There are lots of things to do on both campuses, both hall and campus-wide. Everything from learning Tac Kwon Do to hel­ping the mentally disabled at Logan Center on Saturdays. 
Ifyou like to write, there are Scholastic, the Juggler and ofcourse, The Observer. Ifyou are Interested in volunteer work there are numerous programs run by the Center for So­cial Concerns and every dorm. You can help the aged or tutor the young, work with the deafor assist with the handicapped. 

Not everything involves work or volunteer­ing. College means having fun. Remember, these arc the "best years of your life," so plan accordingly. Play interhall sports, plan hall parties and dances, and get involved in your class government and activities. 
Do not get stuck in a cut and not do anyth­ing about it. Make decisions that are going to make you and those around you happier people. Soon there will be an activities night at Stepan Center where all the things I have mentioned, and more, will be available for your questions and for your name on a dotted line. The more things you become involved with, the more people you will meet and the more friends you will make. 
When you graduate four years from now, it is the positive you will wish to remember, and once again it is the myth you will carey with you. There is something special about this place. A kind offeeling about the campus and the people that is unique to Notre Dame. Stu­dents try hard here to make something of themselves, whether it be academically, ath­letically or spiritually. There are few underac­hievers. By themselves and for and with each other, people work to promote the campus spirit. This spirit is symbolized by the golden figure we always have before us, and the spe­cial feel the grotto gives at 2 in the morning. 
From someone who is looking at things in terms of "lasts," I think how wonderful that you will be experiencing "firsts." Enjoy them. make friends. Remember the good times. 
Mary Ellen Harrington ts a senior English and computer applications major at Notre Dame. She ts from Dayton, Ohio andan assis­tant Viewpoint editor at The Obseroer. 

The class of 1989 should be realistic about future 
Finally. 

After months of anxiously sweating out the arrival of your first semester at the land ofthc Golden Dome and after impatient hours of travel to get to campus for the first time as a 
Kevin Becker 
to the point 

full-fledged Domer, you are finally a freshman. As usual, welcome and good luck. 
To most ofthe students who arrive at Notre Dame as freshmen, this place has been both a dream and a fantasy. For months on end many of you have dreamed about the mythical aura that surrounds the legends and people that have made Notre Dame famous world-wide. There are very few freshmen here who can actually claim that they have never been briefed on the life of Knute Rockne or heard the "Victory March" on television or in a movie. It is this typt of widespread glamour and fame that has made this University one of the most desirable to attend in the nation. 
I am sure that, like the classes that have preceeded the class of 89, many members of this freshman class are expecting the fantastic, utopian dreamland that Notre Dame has been cracked up to be. For many of you, life at Notre Dame has been a fantasy for so long that your expectations are extremely high. You have thought nothing but good things about life as a Domer; therefore, you may have grown to expect nothing but good things. 
The fantasy will soon be over. 

To sound pessimistic and cynical is the last thing that I want to do. To be realistic is my goal. The longer that it takes for a person to realize that Notre Dame is a human institution with very many human imperfections the ruder his awakening will be. 
In the first few months you spend here as a freshman, you may encounter some of the most trying times in your life (all ofwhich will be mere triviality in retrospect). Your class load may seem to be unbearably hard even for those of you who have never had a B in your life. The social life around here may appear to be so boring that you do not think that you will survive until Christmas break. 
One of the worst things that many of you will encounter will be homesickness. Most people try to deny the fact that at many times during the first semester they would like to be back in the hometown with old friends and family. Believe me, homesickness can be a little more traumatic than missing your mot­her's beefstew. It seems to be the worst when the tough times get even tougher around here. There may be times when the only thing in the world you want to see Is a friendly, familiar face. Do not be ashamed; it happens to the best ofus. 
No matter what happens during the course of the year, never give up on Notre Dame. I can remember back when I was in such a dis­mal mood about this place that I began to second guess my decision to come here. For a brief time, I could care less about Knute Rockne and the plethora of other god-like figures that Notre Dame history boasted. Like many of you, I had expectations that were far too high and this place just was not cutting It as "a dream come true." 
To say the least, as time wore on and reality set in, my love for Notre Dame grew. I began to see Notre Dame as a place that Is made spe­cial mainly by the people who comprise this community. I began to realize that all of the legends and mythical figures exist solely be­cause it is very hard for a student or alumnus to explain why Notre Dame Is so special. In other words, the Notre Dame of myth and fan­tasy is fine for people who will never have a chance to be a part of this place, but I prefer the real Notre Dame tenfold. 
Kevin Becker ts a sophomorefrom New Or­leans, Louisiana and an assistant Viewpoint edttor at The Obseroer. 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-m-Ch1el Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager. . Davod Stephen1tch Managmg Editor. .. Amy Stephan AdvertiSing Manager Anne Cull1gan
The Observer 1s the tndependent newpaper publtshed by the students of the 
News Edt tor. . Ke1th Harnson Jr. Controller . B1ll H1ghducheck
Untverstty of Notre Dan,,• du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily 
News Edt tor. Dan McCullough Systems Manager. Mark B Johnson 
reflect the pohctes of the .Jdmtntstratton of either institutiOn. The news is reported as 
Saint Mary's Executtve Edt tor Theresa Guanno Product•on Manager John A Mennell 
accurately and as obJeCtively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Jeff Blumb
Sports Editor of a ma1onty of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Accent Edttor . Mary Healy 
present the vtews of thetr authors. Column space IS available to all members of the Viewpomt Edt/or Joe Murphy 
commumty. and the tree express1on of vary1ng opintons on campus. through letters, Photography Ed1tor Peter C. Laches 
IS encouraged CopyChtel Frank L1po Founded November 3, 1966 
-~--~-------~---------­
The Obserwr Saturday, August 24, 1985 -page 8 
• 


• 

THE STUDENTACTIVITIESBOARD 
• 
• 

PRESENTS: 
• 

OUTDOOR CONCERTS 
Monday, August 26 
• 
• Fieldhouse Mall 
Starting at 2:00 p.m.
• 
HYPNOTIST ·JAMES MAPES VVednesday,August28 VVashington Hall 8:00p.m. 
FUN&GAMES Thursday, August 29 Fieldhouse Mall 
• 
•
• 

STEPAN MALL
• •
•

MOVIE "The Big Chill" Friday-Saturday, August 30-31 Engineering Auditorium 
• 

7:00, 9:00, 11:00 
• 

BEACHPAR1Y Co-Sponsored with Class of'88, '87 
•
Friday, August 30 Stepan Basketball Courts 
• 
Evening 

• 
WARREN DUNES TRIP (On Lake Michigan) Saturday, August 31 
•
•
•
• • 

Get great deals and prices on items
• 
for your room: refrigerators, plants, 
• 

wall hangings, furniture, carpet, and much, much more! 
• Tuesday-Wednesday, August 27-28
•• 9:00a.m.· 5:00p.m. • 
Stepan Center 
• 

................. 
• 

Searching for fun things to do? Need programming ideas for your hall, club, or organization? 
THE STUDENT ACTMTIES BOARD can help you!
• 

The Student Activities Board invites and encourages you to participate and enjoy their many planned activities:
• 

Movies, dances, VVinter Festival, Collegiate jazz Festival, concerts, plays, lectures, AnTostal, trips, and more! 
• 
• 

There are also four S.A.B. businesses for your convenience:
• 

Rock-DuLac (Record Store) Irish Gardens (Flowers & Plants) The Underground (T-Shirt Shop) Student Saver (General Store) 
• Stop by the 2ndFloor, LaFortune orca/1239-7757 andfind out
• 

what the SA.B. has to offer! 
The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1985 -page 9 
Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane 
across from Martin's Supermarket Students show/D and receive free med. drink 277-7744 with sandwichpurchase. Offer expires 9/8. 
Welcome Freshmen 
All kinds ofpeople shop Goodwillfor all kinds ofreasons Comeseewhy 
Good Quality, Great Prices on clothing, houseware, shoes, new, and used furniture 
See us at Stepan Mall 
•  Tues. AWed.  
M-T 9-7  
..__,. F  9-8  Eddy St.  
(JiliiW!WI s  9-5:30  Across from Nickies  

The Student Activities Board Presents: 
STEPAN MALL 
Tuesday, August 27 9:00-5:00 Wednesday, August 28 9:00-5:00 
• Refrigerator Rentals 
eLumber for your Loft and Shelves (Circle Lumber) 
ecarpet -all colors and sizes OC Penney) 
eFurniture and Knick Knacks (Interior Concepts & Finishing Touches) 
• 
School Supplies (Student Saver Store) 

• 
Flowers and Plants (Irish Gardens) 

• 
Newspapers 

•chris' 
Ice Cream!!! 


PRICED AFFORDABLY FORYOUR BUDGET 
Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane across from Martin's Supermarket 
277-7744 

GET INVOLVED!!! 
Students sb(Jw.JD andreceivefree med. drink with sandwichpurchase. Offer expires 9/8. 
Next to Aldl's 
933N. Eddy 287·3663 
MERRICK'S 
Super-Val Drugs 
18075 St. Rd. 23 
OuatNonhof 
Turtle Creek Apt.) 272·7747 

(OPEN7DAYSAWEEK) 
Welcome Freshmen! 
-We have allyourhealth and school supply needs atDiscountPrices 
-Pharmacistalways on duty 
-We cash check's up to S25 for students with valid schoolJ.D. 
, 
I 
1 
J 

The Observer Saturday, August 24,-1985-page 10 


r 
r 
r 
I r 
1801 South Bend Ave. Just east of Notre Dame 277-7727 


Carpet voar dona roo•with thick,.._• .._. carpet, bat aot eaptvyou pocketbook! Slz-fro• 6X9, 12X7, 12X8 12X9,12X12,12X13,12X14,12X15,12X16,12X18 
aadap.  
Bring Your Measurements  
VISA and MasterCard accepted  
McKinley  , Open Dally 1()-6  
Carpet Remnant  Sat.1D-5 Closed Sunday  

All you have to do is sign up... 
I d . h f .
t . 

o ge 1nvo ve 1n t e ast-paced excitement of newspaper production. ~ositions are available on any day of the week-
some are pa1d. If you have worked for The New York Times 
or have never even read a newspaper you are encouraged to 
apply at the Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune 
Student Center. 
Ihe_~­--------------------------------------------~ 
2701 S. Michigan, South Bend 
RENT BY SEMESTER 
Color TV *Microwave Ovens 
~color City 
259-7661 
1...................................;¥~~.....................: 
,..  Why watt.  !  
,..*  Join Viewpoint today and  ,..*  
~ ,..  become part ofa winning  ~*  
~  team ofwriters.  ~* 

,.. Call joe Murphy at 239-7471. : Noexperiencenecessary. ; 
*¥••··············.¥.¥.¥.¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥~~~... 

.Hardware .Lumber 
• Shelving 
weekdays 8:00-8:00 8:00-5:00 Sat. 10:00-4:00 Sun. 
Werntz 




Eslingers 
Why rent when you can buy!I I 
FROM $40.00 
We are selling our entire stock of rental refrigerators priced J40 to S60 
For Information 291-5676 




The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1985 -page 11 

Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane 

.SUBlYWfR1~
across from Martin's Supermarket 
Students show ID and receivefree med. drink 
Sandwiches & Salads
277-7744 with sandwichpurchase. Offer expires 9/8. 





REMNANTS!
OUR SPECIALTY Ltaatt t 
Keep your feet warm this winter! 
0 VEN-BAKED per person 
Special purchase of 6ft.x9ft. quality remnants. All colors, styles, qualities YOUR CHOICI
APPLE PANCAKES 
and fibers. Values to $120.00. 
$3888


All other rcmftlnts on ulc et uvtngs of 40%-75%. 100'1 to choote from. 
'10760 U.S. 31 North 

~Booll CAAPETI.AND Soouh 8cod, Indiana 46637
""l!!!!!!·l!!!£!!!!!!"'~'
ETLANDu•"' (ZI9) 272·4'100 
DON'T WORK HARD! 
W~t Jlntgltts nftlttQiastlt 
Men's Hair Styling at Its finest 4 ~ "". minutes from campus 
C.._;j. ~~ll Welcome Back Students! 
. ~~ STUDENT SPECIAL 
$5 Haircut only 
277-1691 

$850 Haircut, Shampoo
272-0312 

Blowdrv 
...on your
offer pnly applies to male patrons 
artistic

Hra: Tuee, Wed: 1:306:30 
64633Tenoce kiM Thur, Frl: 1:30-1:30 AorOu from Marlin'• Sat: ·~2:30 
talent.
•. Ad.23 Ctoled~. 


Welcome Back Students Good thru Sept 85 
w~e <ltolnnial Jancake Jtouse , 
Sl.OOOFFT'::!hAd' 



SPECIAL!! 
DORM ROOM SIZE 

The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1985 -page 12 

Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane across from Martin's Supermarket
Students showID and Tl!ceive free med. drink 
277-7744

with sandwich purchase. Offer expires 9/8. 



REMNANT SALE 
• 
Over 500 Remnants • Small and Large Sizes 

• 
Area's Lowest Prices • Delivery Available 

• 
Hundreds of Colors • Best Selection 


Mon. 8:30-8:30 
Tues. 8:30-6:00 
Weds. 8:30-6:00 

FLOOR CENTER
Thurs. 8:30-8:30 

Fri. 8:30-8:30 
402 56\JTH IRONWOOD, MISHAWAKA 
Sat. 8:30-5:30 
PHONE: 259-5638 
Sun. 1:00-5:30 

• CARPET • VINYL • TIU • CERAMIC • WOOD • AREA RUSS 
Closed Sunt/Qys untilSept 8 

LOCATED ON IRONWOOD ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF LINCOLNWAY, NEXT TO RAILROAD TRACKS 
NOW OPEN! 


COMIC BOOKS AND BASEBALL CARDS
*lnlHE lATEST COMICS, PLUS 
THOUSANDS OF BACK-ISSUES
* BAS£1ALL AJID FOOTBALL CARDS
*SUPPLIES FOR COMICS AJID CARDS
*OPEN 11 :00-&:00 MONDAY-SATURDAY 

ALL-STAR COMICS &CARDS 507 E. McKINLEY AVE. MISHAWAKA PHONE 258-4388 
welcome sack 
stuoents 

LET US SHOW YOU THE WORLD! 

Computerized Airline Reservations Amtrack Limo Tickets to Chicago Tours and Cruises No Charge for Our Services Major Credit Cards Accepted 
Badin Hall 
239·7080 New Declo Office 239·6682
~source 
Haggar Center 
284-5606
_.Travel 

, 
Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane across from Martin's Supermarket

Students show ID and receive free med. drink 
277-7744

with sandwich purchase. Offer expin!s 9/8. 



Accent 
Saturday, August 24, 1985 -page 13 

From the Ad Building to 'Za 
A Domer dictionary 
byPhUWolf 
features staffwriter 

0 
kay you've made It; you finally have arrived at the 
University of Notre Dame (not Notre Dame Univer­
sity, although that's what most of the world seems to think 
It's called). Once you get your room organized and you 
figure out where your classes meet, you probably will think 
you fit right In with all of the upperclassmen. You figure 
that you know all there Is to know about Notre Dame. 
Maybe you're right. But if you are going to be a Domer, you 
have got to learn to talk like one. Ifyou don't even know 
what a Domer is, you better read this quickly. 
Ad Bulldlng · Short for Administration Building. 
Nob<Kly's really sure what goes on inside, but there are a lot 
of people with Important-sounding titles who hang out 
there. 
Boolu:asc · A term you give your rector for the large 
wooden structure in your room with the mirrors behind It 
and glassware on the shelves. It's a shame Domers are not 
allowed to have bars in their rooms. 
'Brar ·Short for Memorial Ubrary. There are 14 floors, 
but all of the people seem to be on the second floor. Your 
parents think it's where you go on Friday nights. Football 
fans know It as the site of"TouchdownJesus." 
CHEG · Chemical Engineer. Tapt: on the horn-rimmed 
glasses. 11-~5 calculator on the belt. Stripes with plaids. Get 
It? 
Dome · The gilded top on the Administration Building. 
Also refers to all of Notre Dame. The Dome Is not just an 
architectural embellishment; It Is a way oflife. 
Domer · What you soon wiU be if you were not born and 
raised as one already. It's hard to define, but when you go 
home for October break, your parents will wonder what 
has happened to you. You never will be the same again. 
Double E · Electrical Engineer. You can't spell "geek" 
without a double E. 
Ducks · Ducks are ducks. That probably doesn't mean 
much to you now, but by the time you graduate, you will 
have spent more than 73 hours watching and feeding the 
ducks by Saln't Mary's Lake. 
Emll-A person, a thing, an event, even a verb. Dr. Emil 
T. Hofman is the chairman of the Freshman Year ofStudies, every freshman's pseudo major. Chemistry 115 is Emil's class, which almost every freshman takes. An Emil is the seven-point quiz Emil gives every Friday. Emil Night is Thursday night when everybody Is studying for Emil. One even can use the word as a verb to describe the process of cramming for the big quiz. It gets confusing, but not nearly as confusing as Chern 11 5 can be. 
Ethanol-A relatively harmless substance · until you get a whiff of the exhaust from the plant southwest of Notre Dame. 
Hoosier · The janitor in your hall who cannot change a lightbulb Is a Hoosier. The dining hall worker who won't give you two servings of Hungarian Noodle Bake is a Hoosier. The guys who try to run you off the frozen sidewalks with snowplows are Hoosiers. The origin of the word is unknown, but the Hoosiers are everywhere. 
H.T.H. ·Home Town Honey. The person you left behind whom you promised to write every day. The person you wiU dread seeing by the time October break rolls around. 
Major -Ifyou have one now, you probably will change it three times before Christmas. If you don't have one yet, you probably won't until you graduate. Just don't ask the cute girl in your psych class what her major is. 
O.C. ·OffCampus. Where you will want to move after you learn about alcohol policies and parietals. 
Parietals · Midnight on weekdays and 2 a.m. on weekends. Ofcourse, it all depends on who your RA is. Supposedly, parietals are serious rules, but watch out when your roommate closes the transom, leaves the key in the lock and hangs a tie on the doorknob. 
Passion Pit· The lounge in Regina Hall. Go by there at about 2:15a.m. on a weekend and you'll see how it got the name. 
The Pit· The basement of Memorial Ubrary. Home of numerous vending machines which make living in the 'brae for days at a time possible. A good place to meet the cute guy you've been staring at for three hours on the second floor. 
Quad· Everybody on South Quad thinks it's the best. Everybody on North Quad thinks it's the best. People in the towers and Pasquerillas call themselves the Mod Quad. 
Those in Sorin and Walsh refer to the grass in front of Sacred Heart and the Dome as God's Quad. The mall where the old fieldhouse used to be has been called the Sod Quad. All of them are covered with beautiful grass which the students are not allowed to touch. 
The Rock· The Rockne Memorial Building. Named after a legend. Rumor has it that Knute Rockne was part ofa winning tradition in football that Notre Dame used to have. But that was before any of us were born. 
SAGA · The dining service at Saint Mary's. The word is that SAGA stands for Soviet Attempt to Gag America. They serve steaks on Saturdays, but they won't let Notre Dame students go over there then. 

SMC Chick· SMC rhymes with chick. A term for a student at Saint Mary's College. Don't call your date this while she is within hearing range. 
S\'R ·Stands for Screw Your Roommate. No, this docs not refer to any strange sexual behavior. It refers to a dance for which your roommate attempts to set you up with the girl/guy of your dreams · or at least your sixth or seventh choice. Seventeen roommate murders have resulted from SYR setups in the past five years. 
Throat· Originally, this word refered to those highly competitive students who use cut-throat tactics to improve their grades by maklng their classmates look worse. A throat is what you called a brown-nose in high school. The throat in your class is the one who borrows your notes and makes himself a typed, indexed copy, even though he recorded every lecture on tape. 
Tofu · Nobody knows what it is, but when they serve It in the dining halls, it's time to call for a pizza. 'Vator · The elevator in Lewis Hall. Saying the whole word is at least as difficult as walking up to the fourth floor. 
Vendo land· SAGA serves rubber chicken for dinner; you have no money to buy a pizza; it's time for Vendo Land. Down in the basement ofevery hall at Saint Mary's is a world of vending machines in which a few quarters and dimes can give you more junk food than your parents let you eat in the first 18 years of your life. 
'Za ·Short for Pizza. You can get It from Dominos, you can get it from Pizza Hut, you can get It from the Huddle or from foodsales, but get it you will. And often, too. Pep­peroni beats Mystery Meat anyday. 


Before · tbe bare cell 


Adding the personal touch turns your dorm cell into a home 
Center sale on Aug. 27 and 28. At Saint Mary's, there is a plant and 

by Mary Healy 
poster sale In front of J...cMans Hall 

features editor untU tomorrow. There Is also a rummage sale at Moreau Seminary until Aug. 27, where second-hand 
I 
t's your first day at Notre Dame or will raise the bed high enough to furnishings are available. And Saint Mary's and you enthusiasti· put another bed underneath. Lofted before you spend big bucks, walt cally bound into your new room · beds are an especially popular way for upperclassmen to return who only to trip over what appears to be to fit more into less space. often are anxious to get furniture or 
a pile ofdesks, beds, large •If you and your roommate rugs off their hands. wardrobes, a sink, or maybe a brought totally clashing 
•For the lucky ones in renovated couple ofdressers. Putting out your bedspreads, you can help coor· dorms who may not attach anything hand to steady yourself, you find it's dinate by buying cheap fabric and to the walls, molding hooks and already touching the opposite wall. using it for wardrobe covers, cur­fishing line are your best bet. The How, you think, can you possibly tains, sink skirts, and bed ruffles. hooks soon will be available in the make a home for yourself among •Plastic milk crates are inex­bookstore, and can accommodate such an accumulation offurniture pensive and are ideal for stacking posters, pictures, wall lamps, or in such a small space? Well, with the and to hold sweaters, record aJ. anything else you may want to hangwisdom that comes from long bums, or knickknacks. up. practice, there are ways. With the •Inexpensive furniture, plants, •Look at your RA's room for 
right touch, you not only can make pl~ood, refrigerators and carpets ideas. Their rooms often are the enough space to walk around In, willl>e available at the Stepan best decorated. 
but even create a classy and per­sonal atmosphere. Here are some tips to help trans­form that bare ceU into a home. 
•First 
ofall, check out the rules for the University or tht; College and for your dorm. It's no use tack· lng up a lot ofgreat posters if you're only going to have to take them down plus pay a hefty fine once your rector spots them. 

•Sometimes 
it's useful to get rid ofexcess furniture. Ifyou prefer studying on your bed or at the library, you might consider moving your desk to a basement study room, for instance. Some dorms also allow wardrobes to be stored downstairs for those who don't want them. 

•Bunking 
or trundling beds does a lot for increased room. Cinder blocks under the bed posts usually 


Like to write? 
The Observer Accent department 
is looking for talented, dedicated fresh­men to write feature stories, humor columns, movie and record reviews, and all about what's happening on campus. 
Contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-5303. 

r 
The Observer 

Saturday, August 24, 1985-page 14 
ONAN ALPINE A new Lamborghini with a factory standard Alpine car stereo will set you back about 199,000. However, at Classic Stereo you can get the same Alpine sound quality without the Lamborghini and save the tidy sum of about 198,500. Fact Is, during Alpine Week, through Aug.31 you can save handsomely on all of our Alpine systems and components. SoIfyou can'tafford a newl.amborghini, get the next best thing. The l.amborghlni sound· an Alpine carstereo. At Classic Stereo.  
Polk Audio's design goals were all selected • Ultra wide sonic dispersion to achieve better sound in your home and You Can Afford the Incredible Sound of Polk ensures that you will receive optimal sound give you the greatest listening pleasure and through your listening room. long term satisfaction from your music, your records and your hi fi system. • Optimal performance in your roam. • Open, life-like, three-dimensional Polk speakers are easy to position and are designed to provide superior performance in imaging your listening room. recreates the illusion of musicians actually playing in your room, with height, depth and placement across the sound stage. • High efficiency and power handling.• Smooth, accurate frequency Your Polk loudspeakers can be used withresponse virtually any amplifier or receiver, large or across the entire audible range provides you small. They will play very loudly if desired,with natural, non-fatiguing, easy-to-listen-to but also sound exceptionally.cJear at lowsound. volume levels. • Dynamic bass performance. • Unit to unit consistency and long­Your speakers will rattle the windows when term sonic integrity. a kick drum or low organ pedal calls for it, TotallOO% quality control means your Polk but will also reproduce all the subtle deli­speakers will sound as good as the labora­cacy oi plucked or bowed string bass or cello. tory prototypes and will continue to do so for many years to come.State-of-the-art technology, performance and value (Starting at 179 each ) "Literally aNew Dimension in Sound." Stereo Review Magazine "Our Advice is not to buy speakers until you hear the Polks.'~usicianMagazine"Vastly Superior to the Com'-etition." Musician Magazine Polk Speakers Sound Better.  
MITSUBISHI® The Receiver Bug ofthe Century! Classic Stereo has made a special purchase of Mitsubishl Receivers just in time for back to school. Save over 407.! Three models to choose from. The DAR11 has 35 watts per channel, 0.0151. THD, Quartz Digital tuning and much more. Reg. 1349 $199 The DAR17 has 45 watts per channel, 0.0157. THD, variable loud­ness countour and much more. Reg. 1450 $249 The DAR25 has 65 watts per channel, 0.015% THD, moving coil Inputs and much more. Reg. 1600 $319  ~ ~ Classic St~r~ YOUR FRIEND IN STEREO 6341 Univerislty Commons, South Bend 277-1515 Hours: M-F 11 to 8, Sat 10 to 5, Sun 12 to 5  Bang&Oiufsen Beogram RX The Bcopam RX The most economical way to bring the quality ofa Bang & Olufsen turntable to an audio system. The RX turntable offers ultra-low tracking error, an accurate electronically controlled bell-drive system, automatic anti-skating, and the incredible pendulum suspension system that protects your records from harm and your music from distortion. What is perhaps the most Impressive feature ofthe RX is that even in a modest audio system, the RX will show an incredible improvement.  
CAR STEREO Alpine, Nakamlchi, Proton, PolkAudio, Boston Acoustics, Panasonic, Pioneer, JVC, Sherwood, Yamaha, Sentrek, and much more. HOME AUDIO A VIDEO Unn Sondek, VSP, Nakamichl, Bang & Oluliien, Signet, B & W, Klipsch, NAD, Mitsubishl,}VC, Canon, Pioneer, Fisher, Polk Audio, Yamaha, Vector Research, Phase Technologies, Paisley, Nairn, Sanyo, Panasonlc, Luxman, Ohm, NEC, Sylvania, AR, Proton, Hafler, Conradjohnson,CWD  

The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1985 -page 15 
Wrestling 
comes to NDACC 
If the excitement of professional wrestling Is your cup of tea, prepare yourself. The World W restllng Federation's Super Stars ofWrestling come to town on Tuesday, Aug. 27, with six bouts at the ACC scheduled for an 8 p.m. starting time. 
The night's main event will be an Inter-Continental title match bet­ween challenger Tlto Santana and champion Greg "The Hammer" Valentine. In other bouts, Tony Atlas squares off with The Missing Unk, Ivan Putsky matches up with Adrian Adonis, George Wilk wrestles Mike Sharpe and Tony Garea faces King Kong Bundy. In a tag team match, The British Bulldogs meet Volkotf and Sheik. 
Tickets are S9 and S7 reserved and are on sale at the Gate 10 box office of the ACC. Office hours are 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday and 9 a.m. un­til match time on Tuesday. 

Wouldn't miss the big game? 

Are Orioles and Blue jays more than just birds to you? Ever wonder what it's like be­hind the scenes of a major college athletic program? Ifyou answered yes to these ques­tions, then writing sports for The Observer could be just like pitching a no-hitter in the seventh game of the World Series for you. Come to a meeting on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. We'll put you on deck, and it won't be long before you're in the batter's box and hitting away. 


Classifieds 
Rockne Memorial 

Monday through Friday  7 a.m. to 11 p.m.  
Saturday and Sunday  10 a.m. to 11 p.m.  
ACC  

Monday, Aug. 26, through Sunday, Sept. 1 Monday through Saturday 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday 1 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
Normal fall schedule resumes 
.. 

Monday, Sept. 2 Monday through Saturday 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
Sunday 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
Student 10 required for use offacilities. 

f)J; Obsen,er Notre Dame: ollkc:. located on the third floor of laForiUnc: SIUdem Cemer, accepts classified adverlising from 9 a.m. unlil4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. Tbe Observer Saini Mary's office:. loc::alt:d on the: third lloor of Haggar College: Cc:mer. accepts classifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. umil 3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is -~ p.m. All classlfic:ds must be prepaid. either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five: charac­ters r da . 
NOTICES 
PRO. TYPE Ovw 15 ~up. Specillllzing In otudenl pepera, reeumee, dl­tionll, law pep..2n-5833 
LU«na, RUGS ANO POTTaY 
PLU. Lon Of UIIQUl JlWlLJIIY, a.Ol'lid AND 11001(1. THI IT. FRANCII IHOPPl, llH1ND FATIMA RIE'niii.AT CIJIITIR, NOTRI D.U.. 
Viva Loe Badlendoe • II 
1878 Chevy ~bu Cluelc AM/Flo!, Air, WANTED New Tlr•, Battwy, MufflerS1 ,600 or olfw 2n-5833 w.,ted ride lo C&llfomla or New York. ............................................................... . 
~e expeMee. Cal Marco at 1-264­

I I 
~~:........................................................ TICKETS 

I FOR SALE I ,:;i:we·_·i·FiiiAi:i:v.Nee·o·2:3·:rici<'E-Ts 
FOR THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME. ETHAN ALLEN Rocl<w·Rec:llnw Baet Of-WIUING TO PAY ANY SSSS$. PLEASE lw 233-8nO CALL SCOTT AT 272-11518. 
PERSONALS 
Joe MoniiiNIIa a woman hatw 
HAPPY IIRTHDAY 
to u.nlel J. au•van 

SAINT LOUIIANI -W*<>me 1o Noire Darnell! Your olficera. 
Domino'& Plzu -tha world'a ..,._ pizza-dllllvwy company -Ia now hiring driv.. lo handle the Influx oA IIIUdenla. Muat have own car and I....,.,.,._ For a fun part-time job with flexible hOin and $5-$8 per hour avanoge c:.ll Domino'a Pizza. 2n-21s1 
································································ 
Pwuvlan law IIIUdenlaeeldng ,...,.pen pal to exchange ldeu ltbout both c:ulluqe and eelllblah fr1endahlpe. PleMe write: Mol-Antonio Lopez, 330 German Amezaga, Urb. Benavidea. Uma 1 Pwu 
................................................................ '"'-· 
Welcome 1o tha a.. oA 118811 _,., Mit lo_,gelling .-..Intha INIII 
································································ 
E. William Ia a nice guy. 
................................................................ 
Welcome 1o NO, Devld. Chewal 
PRISON INMATE WISHES TO COA­
RESPOND WITH A COU.EQE STU­
DENT. PLEASE WRJTE: NB..SON BASTIC, 12817-(183 31101 KLEIN BLVD. LOMPOC, CA 8S438 

UNIVERSI1Y FOOD SERVICES NEEDS 
A 

FEW AMBITIOUS STUDENTS 



POSITIONS AVAILABLE Waiters Waitresses Bartenders Attendants Casual Employment Catering Positions 
Apply to.· Delores· North Dining Hall (6176) jean-South Dining Hall (6147) Pat-Huddle(7157) 

Byprovidingyour name and social security number, we will clearfinancial aidforyou. 
--------------~-~------­
The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1985-page 16 
Meet the ND/SMC athletic administrators 
I I 
I I 
l 
! ~ 
•
• 
t I I 
' I 
I L 
Rev. Edmund P.Joyce, C.S.C.­both at Notre Dame and on the na­A 1937 Notre Dame graduate, Fr. tional level. In addition to being a joyce was named executive vice member ofthe NCAA Division I bas­president of the University in 1952, ketball committee, Corrigan also has three years after his ordination. As been instrumental in the dealings of chairman ofthe faculty board in con­the College Football Association trol of athletics, joyce always has (CFA) with both the NCAA and the maintained, "First things come first, television networks. Corrigan was a and the first things for us are driving force in the organization and academics. I tell every squad of ath­planning of Notre Dame's first-ever letes that when the students return athletic endowment fund, designed to campus each fall." In his 33 years to increase opportunities for Notre at Notre Dame,joyce has watched as Dame students at all levels of com­Notre Dame has built one of the na­petition. He also is credited with the tion's most successful records in in­introduction of two new varsity tercollegiate athletics, while at the sports -lacrosse and women's swim­same time maintaining one of hig­ming -in his'first full year as athletic hest graduation rates among its ath­director. Before coming to Notre letes. Dame, Corrigan served for nine 

~ years as director of athletic programs at the University of Vir­ginia. 
Rev. EdmundP.]oyce 

Gene Corrigan Since succeeding the legendary Moose Krause as athletic director in 1981, Corrigan has made his presence felt 
We need you back! 
Ifyou wrote sports for The Observer last year, get back into the ballgame by coming to a meeting on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Observer office. On injured reserve and can't make it? Give Jeff Blumb a call at 239-5323 before the buzzer goes off. 

Bring The Family For Good Food at Good PricesUI 
• NEW OWNERSHIP • 
BREAKFAST • DINNERS • TEXAS CHIU 
GOURMET BURGERS • MEXICAN SPECIALTIES 
SALADS • SANDWICHES • COCKTAIU 
SUN. THRU THURS. 7 A.M.-10 P.M.HOURS:FRI. & SAT. 7 A.M.-12 P.M. 


• 
RESTAURANT & LOVNGE 1033LAKE STREET 
NILES, MICHIGAN 616/683-7474 
a Notre Dame, SaintMary's Tradition for over30 years. 

JVSTASK ANYONE! 

Jo-Ann Nester -Nester is in her second year as Director of Ath­letics and Recreation at Saint Mary's College. In her first collegiate ath­letic administrative position, some of Nester's accomplishments in­clude organizing Saint Mary's first student-run athletic council and bringing in four highly-touted coaches to the Saint Mary's staff. 

jo-Ann Nester 

Nester also is credited with upgrad­ing the College's soccer team from club status to the varsity level, in ad­dition to arranging for the Saint Mary's swim team's use of Rockne Memorial pool. With 11 years of high school and college coaching and teaching behind her, Nester headed the Saint Mary's tennis team, which finished 1Oth in the nation in NAIA competition last spring. Nester holds bachelor and masters 
degrees from West Chester State in Roger Vald.iserrl -Valdiserri is Pennsylvania, and she received her entering his third year as associate doctor of education degree with a athletic director after having served minor in sports administration from seven years as an assistant. However, Temple University. he is best known for his work as 
director of the sports information Col.John Stephens_ This is jack department. A 1954 Notre Dame Stephens' 18th year in the Irish ad­
ministration and his third year as director of special projects for Cor­rigan. He assumed the role after having spent seven years as associate athletic director and another eight as an assistant director. Despite hol­ding his present job for only a short time, though, he already has made an impact, playing a major role in the formation of the North Star Con­ference -a conference in which several women's sports now com­pete. 


Roger ValdiserTi 
graduate, he served briefly as an ad­ministrative assistant to former foot­ball coach Terry Brennan. In 1966, after public relations stints with Mercedes-Benz and the Kansas City Chiefs, he returned to his alma mater to become sports information direc­tor and, 10 years later, added assis­tant athletic director to his duties. Regarded as one of the best In his field, Valdiserri has earned 43 awards since 1976 from the College 
see FACES, page 17 
We Overbought fro11 Sealy® and now we're loaded with excess inventory. Oat they go! 
We Guarantee the Low•t Prices • NAMI811AND81.DING 
SeilyPISa.a,.~ 


•+
SULY Fill 

Reg. $118 to $399101 + 
'IITiiiEa.Pc. •
...f.Ea. Pc. 
• 
'235........ • 
SEALY FillER 
Reg. $138 to $6991101 
177 Twi1 Ea. Pc. 'II Filii Ea. Pc• 12SI.....Set 13471iqSet 
I'OSJUIEP£DfC + 

Reg. $198 to $8191101 + 
1111 Twill Ea. Pc. + 1153 fll Ea. Pc. + 
13&7QIHIIet • 
141llilllet •

• 
-------------------------~ 
: FREE BED FRAME + : ~:a~a.OOd •39 to •&9 Value or FREE DEUVERYi+ 
+ Within 25-Miles Radius with Set Purchase 
·-------------------------­
: 1985 ~ 
. 
• · F1nancing Available •Immediate Delivery ~It • •Free Layaway
+ 
Open Daily 10 to 9 Colle&• S11••,......

+ 
SatuNar 10 to 5 l55-99la· wnt~Ms.tii-'T...a~llillf\


t Slllllltl) 1t·S ·~
. illt<ttelly .--tram~·., 

............................. 
~----------~~---------~---------~~-----------------------------~~~~~~~, 
I 
The Obserwr 
Saturday, August 24, 1985 -page 1 7 

l 
Tom Kelly -As director of over that span. Presently Boulac's non-varsity athletics, Kelly oversees job is to offer direct assistance to
Faces 
19 intramural and 12 club sports, in athletic director Gene Corrigan in a 
continuedfrom page 16 addition to 30 recreational wide variety ofareas. programs for both staff and students. Sports Information Directors of 
Kelly, who was named an assistant

America for his sports publications, 
athletic director in 1983, received 

many honored as the best in the na­
his masters degree in physical

tion. 
education from Penn State and his 

joe O'Brien -A 1949 graduate of masters and Ph.D in Educational Ad­Notre Dame, O'Brien is in his third ministration from Notre Dame. He year as associate athletic director previously was NVA's assistant after a seven-year stint as an assistant director for 11 years (until 1979) director. He also continues to and varsity baseball coach from manage the department's finances as 1976 through the 1980 season. athletic business manager. In 1955, O'Brien was named director of per­sonnel functions at South Bend's second-largest employer -Notre 

Brian Boulac

Dame. He has been here ever since, joining the athletic staff in 1976. He 
Sharon Petro -Formerly Notre served as president of the College 
Dame's women's tennis coach and the chairman of the University's
Athletic Business Managers Associa­department of physical education,
tion in 1983 and was named busi­Petro now joins Gene Corrigan's
ness manager of the year in 1983 by staff as an assistant athletic director. 
CABMA. 
Petro served as women's tennis coach for seven years after three years as women's basketball coach. Last spring, she was named NCAA Division II coach of the year after leading the Irish to a 25-5 record and second place in Division II women's 
Brian Boulac -A former Notre tennis. Her new duties will include Dame tight end, this 1963 University several administrative tasks, but she graduate was named assistant ath­will continue to teach physical letic director in 1983 following 13 education. Petro graduated from seasons on the Irish football coach­Wayne State and received graduate ing staff. During that time, Boulac degrees from both Eastern Michigan was recruiting coordinator for seven and Notre Dame. years, an administrative assistant to Dan Devine for two years, and a Mike Bobinski -Bobinski is coach of the offensive and defensive something ofa newcomer to the ath­lines, receivers, and specialty teams letic department's administrative



NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
SUBSCRIBE NOW-See WEST SIDE STOBY Free! 
\ ~ \ 
---End
ol U.e World by Arthur Kopit 

\ 
'-October 10, 11, 12, 17, 18, 19. Washington Hall-University of Notre Dame Hay Fever by Noel Coward December 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14. O'Laughlin Auditorium-Saint Mary's College J'lle Tempest by William Shakespeare 
February T/, 28, March l, 6, 7, 8. Washington Hall-University of Notre Dame 
Wut Side Story by Leonard Bernstein and Arthur Laurents May l. 2. 3, 15. 16, 17. O'Laughlin Auditorium-Saint Mary's College 
Each Subscriber receives 25% oft regular slnglellckel prices -the equivalent of seeing West Slde Story freel 
Series Dates (be sure to indicate which series you wish) Series A Thursday E98Di.ngs-8:10 P.M.: OcllO. Dec. 5. Feb. 'l/, May l. Series B Friday Evellings-8:10 P.M.: Oclll. Dec. 6. Feb. 28. May 2. Series C SaturdayEvelli.ngs-8:10 P.M.: Ocll2. Dec. 7, Mar. I. May 3. Series D Thursday Evelli.ngs-8:10 P.M.: Ocll7, Dec. 12. Mar. 6, May 15. Series E Friday Evelli.ngs-8:10 P.M.: Oct. lB. Dec.l3, March 7, May 16. Series F Saturday Evelli.ngs-8:10 P.M.: Ocll9. Dec.l4. Mar. B. May 17. 
Series Prices-For All Series (See all four shows for one low price) 
At full price Subac:rlben ' Students Save25% SaveuptoSa% 
Washington Hall-Main floor and 4@$6-$24 $18 $12 O'Laughlin Auditorium Rows A-N 
Washington Hall-Balcony and 4 @ $5-$20 $15 $12 O'Laughlin Auditorium Rows 0-W 
For Hcketlnfonnatlon call (219) 239-5957 Make checks payable to: utmTERsiTY OF NOTRE DAME 
r---------------------------------------,
Subscription Order Blank 
Dlrfe_____

N~--------------------------­
PhoDe(
~------------------------------­
City__ .__________ 

Slate·------Zip__________ ~eti~.NwmbK______________________ ~~-------------­
Serl• D.llrecl Localloa: ..Floor Jalcoay____ 
J(wmbK of Suhscripliou Mall Order lo: Pleaae add $1.00 for .....,..tage cmd hcmdling Noire Dame/Saint Mary'a Theatre 
r-Waahlagton Hall Total CIIIIOUDI ot check Ual..mty ol Notre Dame or money order Notre Dame. Indiana 4155& 
L---------~-----------------------------~ 
ranks, although certainly no stranger four years as assistant director, the 
to Notre Dame sports. He was 30-year-old Heisler has had a large 
named ticket manager and assistant hand in the editing of a number of 
business manager in the spring of award-winnin~ publications. Ten 
1984. The 27-year-old Bobinski is a 
1979 Notre Dame graduate and a 
former Irish baseball pitcher who 
returned to South Bend after two 
years in maru~gement audit and par­
ticipant accounting with Disney 
World in Orlando, Fla. He earned 
two letters as a right-handed pitcher 
and was a four-year member of the 
Irish starting rotation. 


Heisler 
have been judged "Best in the Na­tion" by College Sports Information Directors ofAmerica panels, includ­ing two of the last three football guides. Before coming to Notre Dame, the South Bend native had been an assistant director at Mis­souri for one year, after serving as a student assistant at that ·SChool for four years and then graduating from Missouri's School of Journalism In 
Mike Bobinski 197~·-­

Mike DeCicco -Better known as coach ofthe highly-successful Notre Dame fencing team, DeCicco doubles as academic advisor for all Notre Dame athletes. Responsibility for the University's high graduation rate among its athletes lies mostly with DeCicco, whose task is to advise more than 500 athletes at Notre Dame. A 1949 graduate of Notre Dame, DeCicco taught for a number of years in the University's mechanical engineering department Mike DeCicco before giving up teaching to con­


Eddie White-A four-year veteran centrate full-time on his job as 
of the Notre Dame sports infortrul­academic advisor. His fencing teams 
tion department, White serves as as­have brought home an overall 
sistant director, following six years record of 466-47 (including a 23-0 
in the sports information office at men's team last season) since 1962 
tiny Wilkes College In Wilkes-Barre, and were winners of the national 
Pa. White's duties at Notre Dame championships in both 1977 and 
center around the publication of 1978. 
brochures and programs for all 

John Heisler-Now In his .fourth sports, in addition to coordim~t.ing year as associate director of sports sports information's staff of student information at Notre Dame after assistants. 
~*********************************~ 
: BURNSRENTAL : 
* *
* *
: i
* 2 Cubic foot Refrigerator * 
* *
i $45 I School year * *
*

* Delivery and Pickup Available
*
:
i 
323 W. Mishawaka Ave : 

: 259-2833 a t*********************************** 
YOGI'S YOGURT 
"ONE LIITLE TASTE 
IS ALL IT TAKES" 

Imagine the finest ice cream­only with 40o/, less calories and one quarter the cholestrol. 
Colombo Frozen Yogurt is all natural and made with fresh whole milk 
One little taste is all it takes. 
OPEN 11:00 AM-10:00 PM 



,......_ --­
------~---------~ 
The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1985 -page 18 
Several facilities now available for athletics 
Whether you enjoy playing foot­Angela Adlledc Facility ball, basketball, tennis, golf or rac­Located north of die Cushwa­quetball, or just like going for an Leighton Library on the Saint Mary's occasional dip in the swimming campus, Angela includes a track, bas­pool, there is an athletic facility for ketball, volleyball, racquetball and you. The quads are available in the indoor tennis courts. Weight fall and spring for various activities machines, fitness and gymnastic (although the University tends to equipment also are housed in the frown upon too much use of the facility. In addition, there are tennis lawns), while, during the cold weat­and basketball courts outside the her months, you can retreat indoors. building. The facility is open to all H~re is a list ofthe facilities available Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­to students on both campuses: dents upon the presentation ofa stu­
dent ID. Reservations are needed for .\dlledc A: Convocation Center the racquetball courts. 

Athletic and Convocation Center
Burke Memorial Golf Course ­east of the Stadium, contains more 
' The double-domed ACC, located On the west end ofcampus is the 18­
area than the Houston Astrodome. hole, 6,500-yard University golf The South Dome houses the basket­course. The course is open until late 
BANKING••• 

ball arena used by both men's and fall and reopens in early spring. women's varsity teams. The North Green fees are S3 for students, 
ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
Dome is used by the hockey, tennis faculty and staff. Alumni can golf for and track teams, among others. Wit­S6 on weekdays and S7 on hin the structure are handball, rac­weekends. The course is a par 71 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in 
quetball, squash, basketball, tennis and does not require that the golfer 
and volleyball courts that usually are have great skill. 
Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's 
open to the public. Reservations are • Rockne Memorial Building ­
required for most ofthe courts. One Located at the west end of South 
and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
may also take advantage of the ice Quad, "The Rock" is the center for 
rink, boxing room and running the physical education program. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 hr. banking 
track. For those interested in Notre The brick structure contains basket­
locations to serve you! 
Dame sports history, many of Notre ball courts, handball-racquetball Dame's awards are displayed outside courts, a weight room, a light ap­the athletic department offices on paratus room, a swimming pool and 
the second floor. the golfpro shop. Use ofthe Rockne 
Banking Hours· Monday through Friday 
Memorial is free to all students and Natatorium (under construe­faculty members upon presentation 

Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m.
don) -Construction is expected to of a University identification card. 
be completed in October on the Closing time is 11 p.m. daily. 
Friday-11:00a.m. -4:00p.m. ~source 
Olympic-size pool that will be Stepan Center -Stepan Center 
located on the east end of the Ath­and its adjoining fields and outdoor 
letic & Convocation Center. The basketball courts are located in the 
..:aank

Join Michiana's 1st Team 
poolwill have the capability ofbeing northeast corner of the campus. 
for unsurpa~sed banking service! Member F.D.I.C. 
divided into three sections. For in­Outside of the domed Center, one stance, this would allow diving in can play basketball, football, soccer, one end, recreational swimming in rugby and softball. The basketball the middle and water polo in the ot­courts, which can be turned into an her end. The pool, which will ice rink in the winter, are outfitted measure 50 meters in length and 25 with lights that allow students to 
r----------sT~~~~i~;~~-~~-----------1 
yards wide, also will include a diving play basketball late into the night. area with three one-meter boards Within Stepan Center are basketball I Stop in whlle shopping at U.Park Mall I and two three-meter boards. In addi­and volleyball courts, open for tion, an observation deck, seating recreational and league play. Many 380 spectators, will be part of the ofthe interhall sports are conducted 
r--------i---------i---------i--------1 
structure. in this area ofthe campus. 
As part ofhis career rushing totals 

IONLY iFREEl i SOC iONLY I
of 25 touchdowns and more than 

2,000 yards, Southall racked up 988 I I I continuedfrom page 20 yards and nine IDs in his senior I e.taCIIIolo.flhUa• I e.tabHChloll.fNiancJ. I e.tiOCOffyourllllld • I I 
Rookies $_1.29 I OFF! $2.491 
season. 1n his best game, he picked I wlohtoronly99Cwllhlhll I wlohwtt.youp&RhaM I ohaHofa1or2~ I e.taChloll.fNiancJ. I
I ooupon.Thlaoffarnotgood 1 aCIIIokofti.Aianclwloh 1 C~ora1or2 1 =-."::::.-.:::::.. 1
positions. In high school, you were up 241 yards on 1 7 carries. able to run away from opposing Also an outstanding kick returner, I ~~~~ I =.c:-.'2::~ I =Mealwllh~ I ~~~offar~good I players. Here, it's not as easy to do. Southall had six career kickoff I ::·z~~Seplem-I ;:.,~.eneanv I f:"~~~FrtesTM 1 wtthanvolherooupono~tar. 1 
"Allen (Pinkett) has everything returns for touchdowns in high I Stmoys. I oouponperperronpervtslt. I anctco~es~ow.Thiloffarnot I ~~.J:= 1
1 1 OllerexplresSepiember ts. 1 goodwtthanvolherooupon 1 zs.19as.Cioled5oodavs. I
down pat. I'll be able to learn a lot school as his team posted a 24-5-2 I I 1985.Ciosed5tmoyl. offar.Oneoouponperper­from him this season just by watch­record over the course of his sop­ing the way he looks at blocks and at homore, junior and senior years. the way he hits holes." The biggest diJJerence from high 
lh lh lb~lh I 
And he may be the next Heisman school for him? candidate. "The hitting is a lot more ex­
I~gt;lc I~gt;lc I~gt;lc I~fl',;lc I
But that person justas well may be plosive," Southall says. "It's dean, Francisco, younger brother ofjunior but it's more explosive. It's nice to I TASTE IT. I TASTE IT. I TASTE IT. I TASTE IT I defensive back Hiawatha. He arrived have linemen that always know ex­I YOU'll LOVE IT I YOU'LL LOVE IT I YOUtlLOVE IT I YOU'llLOVE IT I 
in South Bend with equally actly what to do, and I like the total 
I FOR GOOD.SM I FORGOOD.SM I FORGOOD.SM I FORGOOD SM I 
phenomenal numbers. team concept here." Twice named all-city, all­conference and all-state as a mem­
'--------~--------·---------·-------~J 
ber of the team at MoeUer High School in Cincinnati, Francisco set Moeller career records for rushing yards ( 4,032), career points (378), single-season touchdowns (27 in his 
ATTENTION SCIENCE 
junior season), single-season rus­
AND ENGINEERING 

hing yards (I,658 as a junior), single 
game IDs (five) and career 100­
MAJORS!

yard games. As both a junior and senior, he was chosen back of the year in Ohio. 
The Air Force has openings for young men and women majoring in
However, things now are diJJerent 

selected science and engineering fields. Like Aeronautical, Aerospace, 
than they were in high school. 
General and Electrical Engineering, Mathematics, Physics and Com· "At this level, there's a lot more 
puler Technology. To help prepare for one of these, Air Force ROTC offers two and
technique stressed," says the 5-10, 
four·year programs of study which will defray some of your college
178-pounder. "In high school, there 
costs. wasn't so much technique as em­
After completion of the AFROTC requirement, and upon your phasis on just using your taleni. I like 
graduation, you'll be commissioned an officer in the Air Force. Then comes responsibility, experience in your specialty with some of the
the fact that Hiawatha is here to help 
best people and facilities in the world, and a mission with a purpose.
me with the adjustment as much as 
You'll get excellent starting salary, medical and dental care, 30 dayshe can." 
~ 
vacation with pay beginning your first year, and more.
~ 
Look into the Air Force ROTC program right away. See what's in it for you. See how you can serve your country in return.
• 
' 
At 6-2, 185 pounds, Southall plans to take his own shot at becoming the next great Irish back. A standout at 
Rush-Henrietta Sperry High School
t Contact Capt. Schaefer 
in Henrietta, N.Y., he was an
I honorable mention pick on the 239-6634 Adidas/Scholastic Coach prep all­America team. 
I r 
L_ 


--------------------------------------------~------------------------------~----------------~-~--------------­
J

~~~C3L~-----------------------------------------sa.t.u.rd_a_y_,_A.ug_u_s_t_2_4_,1_9_s_s
___p_a_g_e_l_9 


Doonesbury 
AL81c, rMGOING 7D LeVE/.... 
14//TH >lXI. 8A8tlXX ca.lEf£ 
15 61?aA/ING, ANlJIAJtN££1) 
J[J.II(Y<. FAQJl.TY ~Y! 
\ I 


ACROSS 1 Personal history 
5 Becomes zealous..,.,...+--+--+­10 Bandy words 14 Peruvian of 
yore 15 Total 16 Describing a 
takeout order 17 Ripped 18 Finicky 20 Stroll 22 Old·tlme 
transport 23 Fruit 24 Korean city 25-Arabia 27 By 28 Flower part 32 Everyone 33 Kind of shark 35 Used car deal 36 Picot 38 Kind of Ink 40 Walked 41 Hardy's 
sidekick ©1965 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
43 Porridge  All R1ghts Reserved  
45 Harbor craft  
46 One of the  6 Heb.month  
Fords  7 Ways: abbr.  
47 Silent  8 Complain  
48 Live  9 Agnew  
50 Establish  10 Most silent  
52 Distinctive:  11 Billiards  
abbr.  12 Chills and  
53 Moon goddess  fever  
56 Law  13 Optimistic  
59 Finicky: var.  19 Extinguish  
61 Verve  21 Scut  
62 Levantlne ketch  24 Sentences to  
63 McCarthy of  prison  
movies  25 Room In Rouen  
64 Fat  26 -off one's  
65 Border  mind  
66 Gaze fixedly  27 Skillet  
67 Madrid ladles:  29 Finicky  
abbr.  30 Audible  
31 Shelf  
DOWN  34 Black gold  47 Culverln  55 Math branch  
1 Abysmal  35 Butter  49 Climbing  for short  
conditions 2 Wlldox  37 Attendance 3§ "-a Camera"  Asiatic plants 51 Pillowcases  56 Recipe word 57 Scarlett's  
3 Finicky 4 Whipped  42 Resin 44 Hemingway's  52 Composer Jule 53 Church part  home 58 Alms  
5 Cookie  nickname  54 Interpreted  60 A Gabor  



tltttllllttttttttttlttttltltttttltHIItttttttttttntttlttttltltttttttttttltlltttl___ltltlttiHIItttlltltlllltlltttlllllllttllllttlllllllttl 

Queen'sCastle* ==:~I ~IRELAND 
usnTerrace Lane, Across from Martin's 27Z·OJU/27Z·I471 
I \:!I!l pR 0 GRAM 
*SEE ATAN IN MINUTES. ___ NOT HOURS! OUR BED OFFERS: I 
1. F1ci•l T1nner 
2. No Colorin& Cre1m1 Information Sessions
Introductory Prices: 

Needed to Obtain T1n 
3. No Bumin&. PNiin& or 
SMC ND
Dryinc 
4. S..h with U.V.A. Bulbs SAT., AUG. 24 SUN., AUG. 25 
If these Factors Are Present. You·ve Chosen 
9:00a.m. 2:00p.m.
The Proper Sun Tan Bf>d 
HOURS LITTLE THEATRE ACC 
Tues Wed. S;., 8 3(}.5 30 Thurs -8 3(}.8 30 
(after general session) 
Fn 830-6 30 
J

QUEEN'S CASTLE-loyal Broa~ Saataaaiac Ceater, Z?Z·OJ12/Z?Z·14?1 -Closed Monday-
Parents Welcome 

MIIIIIIIHIIHHIHIHH...III"IIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIHHHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIHIIHIIIHIIH 

"'"'"''''''"''''''''"''''''''' 
Bloom County 
•'CfM?T5H!P 8€HAVKJR Of TIE Cf)t!/fiON Pe/oh(JIN !Jt61N5 WITH 7H6 MIU.t QIIICK/..Y fJ(ff 
&em.Y IMKINfiii&KA/3 
{()({ 7Ht fCMilL£'5 ~INS.~ 

Berke Breathed 


The Far Side Gary Larson 
Garry Trudeau 
a<AY. 8IJT£J(Nf'( $500,000 (;if$ H/5 C¥UN PWS PO/fo/T5. CAaiWA. ANlJ \ {)E £XJN'T 7tACH. 
\ I 
"So what do you guys want? My watch? Money? ... I got nothln'." 

Campus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
•8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. · Scavenger Hunt, See hall 

•I
0 a.m. to 4 p.m. · Plant and Poster Sale orientation director. 


Lawn west of LeMans Hall. 

•I 
to 4 p.m. · Campus Tours, Main Circle •3 p.m. -Meeting for transfer students, (hourly). 

Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center. 


•7:30 
p.m. · Welcome and Opening •6 p.m. · Luau, Dining Hall Green, freshmen Ceremony, ACC. 


free; guests, S5.50; children under 12, S3.25 

Welcome Baptist Students 
BAPTIST Student Union 


Bible ~tudy -Fellowship • Fun 
Join * Monday, September 9, 1985* Time: 7p.m. 
* At the Bulla House
Us! 
·:.MfAM1111l-£, II€ t.f71ffl.Y 5f..AP5 
71£ feMI/1£'5 5ft.G&N WI7H H/5 
C/E£1<5 IWP C/1~55€5 16? t.ru6 
WfTH !Nml{!llm;Nr f'IK/5eS 
FOf( K/Soe5 ON1HfJ KNfJe:i ... 

-~----------------------­
~----­

Saturday, August 24, 1985 -page 20
S~orts 

Freshman football players find challenges at Notre Dame 
ByJEFF BLUMB deal with and overcome those some outstanding credentials. A SportsEdttor growing pains. consensus prep all-American, he was Once again, Notre Dame's fresh­named as one of the top 100 incom· Challenges and new beginnings. man recruiting class has been rated ing freshmen by The Sporting News. For 1,800 freshmen, the arrival at one ofthe top in the nation, so there With his help as both a tailback and a 
Notre Dame this weekend signifies is no shortage of players with the defensive back, Riverside Poly High the start of another period in life. capability to rise above the rest. Yet, School in Riverside, Calif., was able Still, the time spent here will not be Faust, in his fifth year as Irish head to capture two state titles. without its growing pains. coach, sees something different in As a junior, Green rushed 94 times 
For 24 freshman football players, this class. for a total of 1,035 yards. Poly went arrival at Notre Dame two weeks ago "It's too early to tell how good this undefeated at 14-0 and captured the for the opening of fall practice class is," he says, "but it is the first California Class 3A state crown. In marked a new beginning in a football class I've had here where no one has an effort to top his junior year, he career. No longer are they the stars been a disappointment. In past then ran for 1,384 yards on 116 and heroes of their teams. Once years, there always was somebody carries in his senior season as Poly again, they are forced to work them­we recruited that when they got recorded a 13-1 mark and went on selves up the totem pole in an effort here they were a disappointment to to win the Class 4A title. to reach the same kind of plateaus us. Then on July 27, Green showed they reached in high school. "I'm pleased with all of them. his mettle in the 34th Annual Shrine 
And, as one might expect, the They all seem to have very good Football Classic at East Los Angeles transition from high school· to col· work habits, and that's something College as his South squad took lege football Is not an easy one. you need to be successful on the col­apart the North, 25-6. Beside run­Domination on the playing field be­lege level." ning nine times for 64 yards, he cause ofsuperior size or talent is no A trio offreshman tailbacks will be caught two passes for 70 yards, one longer possible as it was in high putting their work habits to use this ofwhich went 55 yards for a touch­school. They look around the field fall in an effort to become the next down. As If that weren't enough, and see that everyone out there pos­Allen Pinkett, the next 1,000-yard Green continued his show by sesses the same superior size and rusher, the next Heisman Trophy opening the second half with a 94­talent. candidate. Mark Green, D'Juan Fran· yard kickoff return for touchdown. 
The challenge is there for these 24 cisco and Corny Southall all have the Can he do the same thing at Notre freshman scholarship players to one potential to fill the shoes of Pinkett Dame? Green thinks so, but says it day rise above their peers and reach someday, and each has noticed the won't be as easy. new and more lofty heights. difference between the high school "It's been a big change," he says. However, there will growing pains and college levels in the short time "Everybody Is just as fast at the skill for them, as well. The test will come they have been here. when each of the 24 are forced to Green comes to Notre Dame with see ROOKIES, page 18 
One player recovers; another lost for season 
Beuerlein says that he'll 
Nose tackle Mike Griffin be ready to go for opener breaks ankle at practice 
ByJEFF BLUMB ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports EdttorSportsEdttor 

"I'll be ready for the Michigan game. There's no doubt in my Junior nose tackle Mike Griffin suffered a broken right ankle at mind," Notre Dame quarterback Steve Beuerlein said yesterday, put­yesterday morning's practice and will be lost to the Notre Dame ting to rest any rumors to the contrary. 
football team for the season. Griffin, who started all but the Missouri and South Carolina games last year, again was listed as No. 1 on the 
Bcuerleln underwent successful shoulder surgery on April 16 to Irish depth chart. repair a painful chipped collarbone that hampered his throwing last Surgery was performed on the ankle yesterday afternoon and season. Many observers had pinned Notre Dame's hopes for success there has yet to be official word on the success ofthe operation. in '85 on his ability to make a complete recovery in time for the "The loss of Mike is going to have a big impact on our football season. That question mark now may have been erased with the team," said Rick Lantz, coach of the defensive line. "He was one of junior's proclamation that he will be under center when Sept. 14 the leaders on the defensive side, not vocally but by his consistent rolls around. play. "We'll be fine, but the thing I feel bad about is Mike. He has 
Surgery was performed by Dr. Frank Jobe, a shoulder specialist worked so darn hard. He has overcome a number ofinjuries here and and the team physician of the Los Angeles Dodgers. The procedure came back this fall In great football shape only to have this happen." involved removing a small piece of clavicle bone from Beuerleln's Fifth-year senior Mike Kiernan Is listed behind Griffin on the depth shoulder. Jobe had been 100 percent successful with this type of chart with sophomore Matt Dingens behind him. Kiernan played in surgery in the past. five games last season, as well as in five games his freshman year. 
Beuerlein, who has thrown at both of the team's two-a-day There also has been some talk of filling the hole created by Grlf­practices on some days and at only one on others, is not yet through fin's injury by moving senior Eric Dorsey from his starting left tackle with his rehabilitation. position. Should that happen, Greg Dingens would move up to take 
"The arm still getS a litde tired," he said. "I'll swim once In a while the job at left tackle. for rehab and plan to work on the weights just a little, also. Mainly, "It's a tough break," said Notre Dame head coach Gerry Faust, "but though, I just have to throw, throw, throw. But the arm feels fine." Mike Griffin is a tough player and he'll be back and ready to go next 
As a sophomore, Beuerlein enjoyed a season that sawhim produce fall." the highest individual pass completion percentage in Notre Dame A two-year monogram winner, Griffin is a veteran of 22 games in history, in addition to throwing for 200 yards or more on five occa-his Notre Dame career, and he has been known for his solid play sions. Mike Griffin against the run. 

r--------------------------------------------,
1 ~':::, Extra SUBSCRIBE NOW! I I Ihe__-ObseLVer I 
I Parents, shorten the mlles between you and Notre Dame, Ind., I1 with a home subscription to The Observer. When the letters become few and II1 far between, you still can keep up on all the news and sports at Notre Dame II and Saint Mary's through the daily newspaper published by students. 
1 Make checks payable to: The Observer 11 and mail to: P.O. Box 0 Name ________________ 1
I 0 1
Notre Dame, IN 465561 Enclosed is $30 for one academic year. Address 1 
I 0 Enclosed is $20 for one semester. City State Zip -I 
~--------------------------------------------~ 





