~-~~---~---------~~ 
Rock-Alike, page 7 
·---­
VOL XIX, NO. 117 the independent ~tmknt nn\ ~paper ~en ing notn dame and ~aint mary·.., WEDNESDAY, MARCH27, 1985 

Soviets: U.S. story of officer's death 'deliberately false' 
Associated Press 
Tass said in its report that Nichol­MOSCOW -The Soviet Union said son "secretly approached" a military yesterday that a U.S. army major shot equipment storage facility in a and killed in East Germany was camouflage uniform, opened a win­spying onforbidden ground and that dow and was taking pictures. It said the United States is spreading a the sentry shouted a warning in Rus­"deliberatelyfalse version" ofthe in­sian and German, fired a warning cident. shot, then shot to kill when the 
The United States says Maj. Arthur American tried to flee. Nicholson Jr. was on a legitimate Nicholson spoke fluent Russian. mission, in an unrestricted area, and In Frankfurt, West Germany, a U.S. the shooting was tantamount to diplomatic source said the facility murder. A U.S. embassy spokesman was a tank storage shed and that Nic­in Moscow called the report by the holson was standing outside it, official Tass news agency an attempt "near, but not on, restricted 
"to justify an action that just cannot ground." The source, who spoke on be justified." condition of anonymity, said he 
Michael Burch, a U.S. assistant could not say exactly how far the defense secretary, said in Luxem­American was from the shed. bourg, "When we find the Soviets, In its version ofthe shooting, Tass even in restricted areas, we simply referred to Nicholson as "the take their cameras away and send stranger" or "the intruder," indica­them home. We don't shoot them." ting the sentry did not know he was 
In Washington, State Department an American. But it asserted that the Sophomores at Saint Mary's pickedfuture dwell­earlier this week, and juniors will select rooms Russian soldier's actions were
spokesman Bernard Kalb com­"in 
ingplaces last night, which is what these sophs are tonight. 
mented, "We can only say that our strict compliance with military reg­
doing in the LeMans Hall lobby. Freshmen chose 
reaction is one of disgust that the ulations." Soviets would compound their inex­It said the incident was cusable killing of Maj. Nicholson "regrettable, but the entire responsi­with such an obviously tendentious bility for it lies with the American 
account of the events." side, which is now circulating a Asoviet sentry shot Nicholson on deliberately false version of what Sunday near the East German town happened." 
HPC approves extension of terms, 
of Ludwigslust about 30 miles from President Reagan said he was 
the West Germany border. U.S. offi­"shocked and saddened" by the By SCOTT BEARBY was originally to go into effect by today and will continue until the cials said Nicholson's driver was shooting. He added that Nicholson StaffReporter April 1. end of the week. Tickets are prevented from going to the was "not spying and violence was 
The new administration is now available in each hall for S1. wounded man with his first Alid kit, not justified." 
Student Body President Robert scheduled to take over April 15, ac­Each ticket is also good for admis­and the major was left to die without A pentagon source, speaking only Bertino announced a revised cording to Bertino. The rough draft sion to a "Chance to Dance" on Sat­medical attention. on condition of anonymity, said the timetable for implementing changes of the revised constitution will be urday night at Chatauqua in The Americans say Nicholson and missions cause confrontations on in student government structure at presented to the Senate at theirApril LaFortune. Sgt. Jessie Schatz were on a routine both sides. He said a French officer last night's Hall Presidents' Council 1 meeting and will be sent to the HPC Chairman Chris Tayback an­surveillance tour permitted under was killed a year ago when his vehi­meeting. HPC in time for their next meeting. nounced that University President the 1947 agreement that provides cle was rammed by an East German 
The revision became necessary Father Theodore Hesburgh will for liaison missions on both sides. guard truck, "but to the best of our after the HPC unanimously passed Because of the limited time speak April 1 5 on the role ofleader­Since the end of occupation, the knowledge, the killing of Maj. Nic­Monday's Student Senate action ex­available before the deadline, the ship in avoiding nuclear war as part main function of the missions has holson is the first outright shooting tending current senators' terms by Senate and the HPC need to accept of the HPC lecture series. been intelligence gathering. ofa liaison mission officer." two weeks. Extending the terms will or reject the rough draft next week. allow the Senate to complete the Unless either body rejects the draft, restructuring process before cur­elections for hall senators will be rent members leave office. April 9 in each dorm. 
The plan, which calls for one The HPC-sponsored raflle to 

announces restructuring timetable 
GE indicted on federal charges 
senator to be elected from each hall, benefit Multiple Sclerosis begins 
Associated Press false declarations" before a federal The indictment charged that grand jury, Dennis said. Calabria and Baessler, after being PHILADELPHIA General Their lawyer, Walter Phillips Jr. given immunity, "made false

Hellwig to open center 
Electric Co., the nation's fourth­said, "Pure and simple, neither Roy declarations before a grand jury largest defense contractor, was in­Baessler norJoseph Calabria made concerning the closingofaccountsBy TIIERESA GUARINO The Center will give participantsa dicted by a federal grand jury a false declaration to the grand related to the contract on which
Saint Mary's Executive Editor chance to reflect upon the contribu­
yesterday on charges it defrauded jury, and there is no question that the cost overruns were incurredtions women today can make to the the government ofabout S800,000 they will be fully vindicated after a and changing employee timeMonika Hellwig, "America's Catholic Church and the spirituality on a nuclear warhead system. trial in this case." cards."
foremost woman theologian," will of the world in general. 
The company was charged with If convicted, GE faces a maxi­The indictment "does not allege,inaugurate Saint Mary's Center for Saint Mary's offered a graduate four counts of "making and mum penalty ofa $1,080,000 fine, and there is no evidence to sug­Spirituality tomorrow night with a theology program from the 1940s presenting false claims to the and Calabria and Baessler each face gest, that there are any defects inlecture on today's Christian woman. through the 1960's. The Center for United States" and 104 counts of a maximum penalty of 1 0 years in the actual work performed by GEHellwig's topic, "Christian Wo­Spirituality hopes to continue the making false statements to an prison and a S20,000 fine, Dennis on the contracts," Dennis said. 
men in a Troubled World -Can We same kind ofeducation in a wayrele­agency of the United States, said said. In anticipation of the indict­Make A Difference?" will be pub­vant for today's college student. 
U.S. attorney Edward Dennis, who "The mischarging was accom­ment, GE denied any criminallished by the Paulist Press as the first Hellwig's lecture will focus on announced the indictment. plished by altering time cards of wrongdoing by the company or itsMadaleva Lecturein Spirituality. some of the goals of the Center, in­In a statement issued after the in­GE's Re-entry Systems Division employees.
Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality cluding the relationship between dictment, GE denied the company employees without the The government allegeswas frrst proposed by Religious tradition and current expressions of or any employees had committed employees' knowledge, charging "incorrect charges on about 100Studies Department Chairman Keith faith, the problems women face in any criminal wrongdoing, but said costs to other contracts im­employees' time cards of approxi­Egan last March, and was approved power structures, and Hellwig's vi­it is willing to reimburse the gov­properly, having employees sub­mately 100,000 time cards submit­by both the Board of Regents and sion of Christian women's vocation ernment for any improper charges. mit blank time cards which were ted between March and NovemberCollege PresidentJohn Duggan. The possibilities. 
It also issued a statement before completed incorrectly by of 1980," Larry Vaber, a GE spokes­Center's purpose is to prepare wo­Hellwig, a professor at Geor­the indictment, denying any cri­managers, and allowing the divi­man at company headquarters inmen to become spiritual leaders in getown University, was recently minal wrongdoing. sion's accounting department to Fairfield, Conn., said. 
the Church. awarded the John Courtney Murray The indictment also charged GE transfer costs from the contract, "We understand that there is noPrograms will include speakers, Award for Distinguished Achieve­employee Joseph Calabria and which was over ceiling, to another allegation of charges for servicesworkshops and seminars on adult ment in Theology. Her inaugural former employee Roy Baessler contract, which had costs thattheological education. Men and wo­lecture for the Center for with two counts each of "making were reimbursable," Dennis said. see GE, page 4men ofall faiths are invited to attend Spiritualitiy will begin at 7:30p.m. in all events. O'Laughlin Auditorium. 





---------------~----------------------------------------~--~~------~------------------------------------...... 
The Observer Wednesday, March 27, 1985 -page 2 
l Fireside dreams transformed
In Brief 
A man sought bycampus securityofficials 
at Notre Dame for questioning in connection with several reported 
incidents ofindecent exposure over the last three to four weeks, has 
been apprehended and admitted his participation. Security officials 
said he was not a resident of the immediate area and has agreed to 
seek professional assistance for the problem. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
A symposium on Carl Sandburg today 
honors the late Father Leo Ward, poet and philosopher for most of his 91 years at Notre Dame. Three faculty members, Professor and Director of Graduate Studies Thomas Schlereth of the American studies department, English Professor Thomas Werge, and professor emeritus of the English department Ernest Sandeen will participate in several programs honoring the American poet. The program begins at 3:30 in the Memorial library lounge. Admission is free and the public is welcome. -The Observer 
The Charles and Margaret HallCushwa Cen­
ter for the Study of American Catholicism presents a lecture, 
"Poverty and the Irish Economy Before the Famine," by Joel Mokyr, professor ofeconomics at Northwestern University. The lecture is in Room !22 Hayes-Healy Center today at 4. Mokyr is author of the book, "Why Ireland Starved: A Quantitative and Analytical History of the Irish Economy 1800-1850." This lecture is sponsored by the Ancient Order of Hibernians Endowment. -The Observer 
The American Catholic Studies seminar 
will meet tomorrow afternoon at 4 in Memorial Library lounge. 
Speaker Edward Kantowicz of Chicago tides his presentation "The 
Golden Age of Catholic Church Architecture in Chicago, 1891­
1945." The seminar will deal primarily with the work of seven ar­
chitects or partnerships who built most ofthe churches during these 
years. -The Observer 

Juniors of all majors are invited to attend a presentation tonight at 6:30 in Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. Paul Reynolds, assistant director of Career and Placement Services, will highlight the office's services as well as outline some activities juniors should consider in preparation for their possible job search next year. lbis presentation will be repeated at the same time to­morrow night. -The Observer 
A "Show OffYour Tan Party" is sponsored by 
the senior class at Senior Bar tonight beginning at 9. 
Observer Editor-in-Chief Sarah Hamilton will be the guest on WVFI-AM 64's "Campus Perspective" talk show tonight beginning at 9. listeners are invited to call in with questions and comments at 239-6400. -The Observer 
CILA will sponsor a reflection and discussion group tonight at 10:30 in Room 115 of Farley Hall. All are invited. -The Observer 
Weather · 
Look out.tt will be warm, but it might be wet. Windy and warm today with a 60 per­cent chance of thundershowers and a high from 65 to 70. Cloudy tonight with a 40 percent chance of thundershowers and low in the mid 40s. Cooler tomorrow with a 60 percent chance ofshowers and high in the lower 60s. 

The Observer 
lbe Observer (USPS ~99 l-4000) Is 
published Monday through Friday and 
on home football Saturday>. except 
during exam and vacation period>. lbe 
Observer i> published hy the student> of 
the Univer>ity of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's College. Suh"riptions may he 
purchased for S30 per year (SlOper se· 
mcster) hy writing lbe Observer, P.O. 
Hox Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46~~6. 

lbe Observer Is a member of lbe 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
right.., are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 

Design Editor................................ Andy Saal 
Design Assistant............. Matt Graclanc:tte 
Layout Staff....................... Tracy Schindele 
Priscilla Karle 
Typesetters................................. Vic Guarino 
Ted Dore News Editor ....................... Bob Musselman Copy Editor .................................... liz Flor ~ports Copy Editor...... Eric Scheuermann Vieupoint Copy Editor............ Mary Ellen Viewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor ...... Ed Nolan Features Layout .................. Andi Schnuck ND Day Editor ............ Cimly Rauckhorst .\MC Day Editor .................. Ed Nolan Ad Desigtz ................. Mary Carol Creadon 
Kathy Krenz·er Photographer . ........................ Paul Kramer 
into more practical goals 
The sun was setting like a flare across the Illinois 
River, as we fmally managed to start the campfire. We 
had ridden 90 miles that day and were exhausted . 
Gralfuation was two days away, and having com­
pleted our last set of finals, we had two days of freedom 
to tour downstate Illinois. As we sat around the 
campfire, burning Fritos and marshmellows, we talked 
about our fuur years together in high school and what 
the future held for us in college. At the time none of us · 
knew what we wanted to do with our lives or what 
careers we would pursue. 

It seemed our lives were just beginning; a vast void lay ahead of us, and it was we, not our guidance coun­selors or parents who would decide how to fill that void. As the fire burned down, we decided our first priority in life was to have fun -that was the bottom line. We were going to enjoy ourselves and do what we 
wanted. We felt we could conquer the world and could do anything ifwe worked hard enough. 
During high school, life was easy. We always had enough money, we never had to work too long or too hard, and school was just an inconvenience to endure until the end of the day when we went to practice ­the only reason we bothered to go to school. After school , we went home to talk on the phone , watch television and maybe, if we had time, do some homework. 
How things have changed. 
In high school, we believed success would 1-27 come easy. The job ofkrs would just roll in, and we would never have any trou­
ble with school. Back then, 
0 
~ 

ideo.{ 
the main criteria for choosing a career was to find a job we would enjoy as much on the day of our retirement as we did during our first year. 
Now our first questions about a career are: "What is the starting salary? What are the prospects for advance­ment?' ' These seem logical questions, but two years ago we did not consider them the most important factors. 
As high school students, we did not think quality of life should be dictated by position or salary. Rather, we thought happiness should arise from activity we enjoyed and at which we were good. We thought our jobs should be recreation, not hard labor. 
In the last two years, we have awakened to reality. We have discovered photography is not the path to ridtes, and that if you want the house on the top of the hill, coaching track may not be the ideal career choice. In the real world money talks, and it is a safe bet that if you want job security, a nice place to live and a month-long vacation every year, you will have to throw out the no-

Vic Guarino 
Photographer 

tion of doing what you want and settle for a career that will give you the lifestyle you want. We have learned to make a tradeoff between what we would like to do and what we should do. 
Upon graduation from college, our lives will be much less carefree. If we want to ''get ahead,'' our actions will often be dictated by others. No matter how hard we work, we may not achieve what seemed so easy a few 
years ago. College has been one 
realify 

step in our baptism into the world. It has taught us to c~ with many difficulties and still enjoy life. When we graduate we will, if you will pardOn the cliche, become full-time actors in the play of life. 
camping along the Illinois. 
The Observer encourages the free expres­sion of opinions through letters to the editor. Letters should be brief (approximately 250 words) and typed whenever possible. All let­ters should be signed (although the author's name need not be published), and should in­clude a phone number at which the author may be reached. Letters are published on a space-available basis. Letters are edited to correct erro!s in grammar and for space con­siderations. 

Learn the facts about cancer. 
And make not knowing the risks, one less risk. 
S.C>.~.P ; 
Students on Alcohol Problems ••
•
Meeting on Mondays 4:00 -5:00 pm •
•
•
Counseling &Psychological Services 
•
Center rm. 316 •• Do you have some ideas about alcohol? •• Would yo·u like to share them with other • students who may also be like you? ••• 



• 
The Observer 

""'MO'rch of Dimes 
~ -lliiBIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATIONIIIIIIillil 
The Observer 
The independentstudent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Production Manager 
For further information contact John Mennell at The Observer (239·5303) by 5 p.m. Thursday, March 28. 
'NOISMC Millions Against MS' .._-¥-ROCK-ALIKE CONTEST'** North Dining Hall WedMarch27 $3.00 9:30-? (includes 1 vote card for favorite performer 
Tix on sale in the Dining Halls Tues. and Wed. during dinner and also avaUable at the door. 
COME HELP US CLOSE OUT OUR 
FUND DRIVE WITH A BANG!!! 
Wednesday; March 27, 1985-page 3 
Juniors looking toward Nassau: deadline for payment April12 
ByJOHN WALTERS 
News Staff 

Spring Break is still fresh in our minds and our tans have not surren­dered to the South Bend climate, but already plans for the next tropical as­sault have been made. 
The class of '86 senior trip has been in planning stages since janu­ary. For those who want to attend the October break escape to Nassau, the Bahamas, the time to register is now. 
The $150 non-refundable deposit must be submitted by April 12 to reserve places for the excursion. 
Total cost of the trip is $460, which includes round-trip airfare from O'Hare, plus a week's stay at the Sheraton British Colonial, a beachside resort in Nassau. Special arrangements have been made to return the seniors on the Friday night before break's end, in time for the USC game the following day. 
"We originally sent out surveys right after Christmas break to let the 
Peacemakers present Central America week 
By KAREN BRADY 
News Staff 

Concerned about your lack of knowledge regarding world events? 
The Saint Mary's Peacemakers are sponsoring a week of education about Central America, an opportu­nity to learn about Nicaragua and El Salvador. 
Central America Awareness Week will run today through Friday. The 
Vocation Retreat 
where is the Lord leading you? ... a chance to explore religious life 
C\  as a sister ofthe Holy Cross.....  
C'\\  April19 and April20  
(7 pm. Friday to 7 pm. Saturday)  
Mary's Solitude  

St. Mary's College campus...it'sfree! to register, call Sr. PatMcCabe, C.S.C. 284-4466/42B7 
'1C::;:::S;::~ 


juniors decide where they'd like to go," said junior Paul Kolano, one of four trip coordinators. Montreal; Cancun, Mexico; and Nassau were the locations under consideration. 
Approximately 500 juniors an­swered the survey, making Nassau the most popular destination by far. Explains Kolano,"In choosing a site, we were looking for a place that would provide both a change in climate and a good night life. Nassau had the best ofboth." 
Kolano said he expects approxi­mately 350 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students from the class of '86 will attend, but foresees potential problems because of the early deposit necessity. 
"The problem is that this is a ter­rible time to collect money from people,"said Kolano. "Everyone is either broke from spring break or will be by Easter, but when they have some extra cash this summer, they'll wish that theyhad signed up." 
The early deposit is necessary to secure some special advantages in 
theme is "CA Libre," a central idea for the week's activities. 
The symbol of the project will be the Quetzal bird which represents the forces ofgood against evil. 
This educational program will in­clude an inaugural lecture, four films, a panel discussion and two prayer services. 
Throughout the week, the 
Peacemakers' Issues Board will be 
located at various points around 
campus. This board will provide store for the sun worshippers. For example, First Source, the travel agency handling travel details, will have a tour representative in the Bahamas to plan events during the trip. Delta is also giving one free flight for every 25 tickets sold. 
"We will raffie off the free flights when students bring their deposits to the first-floor desk at LaFortune between April 9 and 12," said Kolano. This will save the winners approximately S250 off their vaca­tions. 
"Our biggest problem is momen­tum,"said Kolano. "Once word of mouth spreads, the trip's popularity will snowball." 
The coordinators have had in­formational meetings in every dorm, and have displayed posters as well as put out a newsletter to stir up inter­est. Kolano said he knows many people will be excited to go, but that it is vital to plan for the trip at the present time. 
The absolute deadline for submit­
ting the $150 deposit for the Carib­
bean fling is April 12. 

facts and opinions about the serious 
issues at hand and the way they 
relate to U.S. citizens. 

The prayer service today is in Holy Cross Hall chapel and will focus on "The 8th Station, The Weeping Women of the Americas." 
Tomorrow afternoon, the movie "Target Nicaragua" will be shown in Room 12 5 ofRegina Hall at 1:15 and 3:25. 
Schedules ofthe week's events are at the front desk ofall hall lobbies. 

WSND -Notre Dame Public Radio is currently accepting applications for the positions of: 
. Station Manager ·Program Supervisor -Music Director 
. Production Coordinator ·Business Manager 

Applications should contain a resume and a brief statement of intent and may be dropped off at the Office if Student Activities. 
239_7308 (9.5) For further information, call283-4184 (evenings) 
SENIORS 
Remember to make 

GRADUATION PLANS 
with parents for Commencement Weekend May 17-19th 

FRI, MAY: 17 -Senior Class Cocktail Dance • ACC North Dome 
tickets requited SAT, MAY 18-DinnerIACC North Dome SUN, MAY 19·Brunch 
No./So. Dining Halls 

Orderform has been sent to parents. Must be returned to 
CCE by April23rd 

, 
l , 
~ 
1 
. 1 
The Observer Wednesday, March27, 1985-page4 

Court denies pregnancy lawsuit 
Allsodated Press 

ALBANY, N.Y. · A mother who became pregant after undergoing a sterilization procedure cannot sue the doctors and hospitals for the costs of raising her daughter, New York's top court ruled today. 
"In view ofour society's acknowl­edgment ofthe sanctity oflife, it can· not be said as a matter of public policy that the birth of a healthy chlld constitutes harm cognizable at law," wroteJudge MatthewJasen for the state Court ofAppeals majority. 
The 6-0 ruling narrowed the kind of damages Brian and Susanne O'Toole may seek in their suit against doctors Benjamin Green­berg and Arthur Leber as well as the Jamaica Hospital and Family Practice Center. 
No trial has been held yet to deter­mine whether the doctors and the hospital were negligent. If the couple can prove negligence was in· volved, the couple may seek dama­ges for expenses incurred for the pregnancy, delivery and other medi­cal expenses. 
At the center of the controversy is the accidental conception of the O'Tooles' daughter, KellyAnne 
Grain dealers feel farming pinch 
Allsodated Press 
GARY, Ind. · Grain elevators, many of which sell seed grain, chemicals and fertilizers to farmers and then buy their crops of corn, soybeans and wheat, have felt the pinch ofa weakened farm economy, an agriculture agent says. 
"They're facing the same credit 

problems that farmers are," said 
Harold Eubanks, Lake County agent 
of the Purdue University Co­
operative Extension Service. 
In northwest Indiana, at least 

three grain dealers have filed for 
protection in recent months from 
creditors under federal bankruptcy 
laws, the Gary Post-Tribune re­
ported. 
"If the farmer is suffering, the elevator is not going to be in clover," said Don Harrell, manager of the Farm Bureau Co-op in Crown Point. 
The filings have left dozens of creditors, including many farmers, to wait for approval of plans to reor· ganize the grain businesses and free thousands of dollars in cash and grain assets frozen by the courts. 
Ed Hein of rural Lake County said he was issued a S41,000 check in January for I '5,000 bushels of corn brokered through Ag-Consultants Grain Division Inc. of Lowell. The check bounced after he had written about 2'5 of his own checks against the deposit, Hein said. 
GE 
continuedfrom page 1 
or products not received by tne gov· 
ernment, nor for excessive pricing," 
he said. "Rather, the matter involves 
complex contractual and account· 
ing procedures. GE has fully 
cooperated with the government 
during its four-year investigation." 
"It's entirely possible that during 

the course of performing these 
multimillion-dollar contracts, charg­
Ing errors did occur," Vaber said. 
"However, there was no criminal 
wrongdoing on the part of the com­
pany or its employees." 
A Pentagon official, who spoke on 

condition of anonymity, said an in­
dictment of GE "will almost 
as.o;uredly be the largest defense con­
tractor ever charged on criminal 
counts." 
The GE work was performed at the company's Re-entry Systems Op­eration division here, since merged into GE's Space Systems division, which employs more than 6,500 people In Valley Forge and Philadel­pbla, said John Terino, product in­formation manager forGE. 
If convicted, GE also could face debarment proceedin~ aimed at all or part of Its Pentagon contracts. The company and its subsidiaries received more than S4.5 billion in military contracts in fiscal 1983, fourth among defense contractors, according to the most recent statis­tics available from the Pentagon. 
General Electric's 1983 contracts included supplies such as washing machines and light bulbs, as well as nuclear-missile warheads and engines for the B·1 bomber and the F-14, F-15 and F-16 fighter planes. 
Early this year Brett Ellis of Lowell, the owner ofAg-Consultants and Ceres Farms Inc. filed under Chapter 11 of the federal bank­ruptcy laws. Court records show the companies hold assets of S700,000 and liabilities of S2.1 milllon. 
Neither Ellis nor his attorney could be reached for comment. Ellis' wife, Ann, when reached at home, said she had been instructed not to comment. 
Two other area grain elevators Marie O'Toole, a 3-year-old, blue­eyed, strawberry blonde. 
Both parents have said they love their daughter but brought the suit to raise a point: "It's hard bringing up too many children," O'Toole said recently. The couple has four children. "This is something that 
never should have happened." Does someone significant to you have a drinking problem? Does It affect you? Maybe we can help. John Bonina, the O'Tooles' attor-Call 239-5085 ney, said he had not read the deci-1',_..._,.,.__....,~,..~1\---~-..-·,__..,'-"'_....,.j~--.fl. 
sion yet but indicated he may recommend an appeal to the U.S. Su­preme Court. He said Mrs. O'Toole was Catholic and rejected abortion as an option. 
creditors, according to the Post­
Tribune. 
Eubanks said slow collections of bills, coupled with high interest rates, were responsible at least in panfor the financial troubles ofeach of the three elevators. 
"They have to purchase (their) goods and they generally have 30 to 60 days to pay for them," he said. "If they don't collect from the farmers, who are drawing out their debts, then interest costs can be very 
ALANON Monday 5:45-6:45p.m. 
Counseling &Psychological Services Center Room 316 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWR£NTI1VG FORFAIL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 820 ND Ave or callopen Mon-Fri 3-6pm 234-6647Sat 11-3pm

establish your credit history. And, for busmess, the Card is invaluable for travel and restaurants i'ls well as shop­pmg for yourself. 
Of course, the Amencan Express Card I:> recogniZed en ound the world. So you are too. 
So call l 800-528-4800 and ask to 
--have n Speciill S!Udent Applica­
~i~~~_()__i_It__t________________w_~-e-~a-y,_M_Mm_2_7,_1~-s__p~_s 

Many of them, however, do gripe about being put in branches for which they did not apply and being denied opportunities to immedi­ately pursue graduate education plans. And in the final analysis one does wonder about many of the Pentagon's decisions. 
These days, it seems that my entire decision-makingprocess has begun to operate by default. A specfic example being my deci­sion not to go to law school. I did successfully take the I.SAT but when it came time to fill out those applications I just couldn't bring myself to compose a personal statement. I took this as a sign that I did not want to go to law school but it may have been pure procastination. 
Adding to my problems is a pep talk I often hear in one ofmy classes. The professor in this class, a dynamic and invigorating lecturer, repeatedly provides enlightening philosophi­cal digressions on what it takes to be success­ful. Doing the work for his class is, ofcourse, a prerequisite but he also offers examples of former students who took his philosophy to heart and have gone onto great heights in the academic and business worlds. After describ­
ing the accomplishments of these past stu­
dents he lets the class know, if they work hard 
enough, they too can reach that enigmatic 
plateau commonly referred to as success. 
After one of these classes my current deci­
sion to stay around home for a year and work 
before (ugh) deciding where to go back to 
school and what to go back in seems wimpish. 
A part of me wants to change my laid back 
ways to that ofa marauding Yuppie whose ul­
timate goal in life is to take over small com­
panies, but such a change would involve 
making a major decision. 
The best solution appears to be to go home and watch television and to wait for those mil­itary recruitment commercials. "Be All You Can Be," seems to be the best advice to follow when faced with those tough choices. 
Mark Boennighausen is a senior govern­ment major and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 
The agonies of making decisions continue to exasperate me even after close to four com­plete years of a rigorous Notre Dame educa­tion. The powers of conceptualizing, organizing and criticizing that have been ex­pertly developed during my liberal Arts edu-
Mark Boennighausen 
gravity is a myth 
cation seem to desert me when it comes time to make the big choices. And senior year seems to be full ofbig choices. 
Throughout my life I have had the decision­making ability ofa child in a candy store. Now the complex choice ofwhether to buy a grape or cherry sucker has multiplied tenfold into decisions concerning going to grad school or finding a job. And once a decision has been made the ultimate result is the opening of a whole range of new situations where choices have to be made. 
Part of my problem undoubtedly stems from having a bunch of overachievers as friends. Talking to any of them makes me question any current decision I have made about my future. When I talk to one friend who is having his own difficult time deciding between Harvard and Stanford law school, I want to go to law school. Talking to other friends who have secured lucrative jobs makes me want to find gainful employment. Finally, discussing the future with my Rhodes 
Scholar buddy makes me wish I had studied a little harder during my four years under the Golden Dome. 
I am almost to that absurd point where I envy all of my ROTC friends. After all, they at least have the military making sound and com­petent decisions about their futures for them. I hear constant speculation about being sent to basic training camps in such exotic and seemingly fun-filled places as Fort Benning, Georgia and resort-sounding places in Texas. 
Doonesbury 

Where's the beach? 
Florida-the land ofclear water, blue skies, open beer cans -it represents everything Notre Dame is not. 
In Florida, one can drink the water and guzzle the beer without fear of poisoning or arrest. 
In Florida, the air does not reek like a pile of basketball players' socks left after the NCAA Touranment came to town. 
I have developed Murphy's Laws on Florida (called an Irishman's guide to finding a pot of gold): 
First and above all, to look tan -don't wear 
white, wear make-up. 
Joe Murphy 
so it goes 
For the trip down, rent the smallest car 
available and find the fattest people to ride 
with you. 
Never, but never, stop at McDonald's, when 
you can go the whole way without eating. 
Save your money for Florida. 
Bring more luggage than Nancy Reagan would for a week at her ranch. Don't bring a cassette player when you can listen to Phil Collins 48 times on the radio. 
Be friendly with the other riders -you may not be on speaking terms with them on the way back. 
Once in the Sunshine State, act like a native, not a savage. Those who reside in Florida do not generally eat their empty beer cans. 
Do not refer to Florida as the land where -as a friend says -old people go to sweat. 
Allow yourself enough time to get to the 
beach, since your ocean-view hotel is always a 
minimum offive miles away. 
Do not talk to young ladies with purple hair 
or young men with tattoos on their arms of 
young ladies with purple hair. 
Remember, Florida is America's micro­
wave, and you are its frozen dinner. 
Finally, take lots ofpictures because none of 
your (jealous) friends back at school will 
believe you had the incredible time you will 
sayyouhad. 
On the ride back, don't roll the windows down. Keep the air conditioner on maximum since that is the only thing that will keep you from breaking out in sun blisters. 
And finally, when you get back to Notre Dame, stop the car (or at least bring it to a slow roll) and get out and kiss the muddy South Bend ground. It may be wet and chilly, but it's home for four years. 
Uike many of you, had to learn these laws 
the hard way last week I am printing them 
before I forget them, and so that next year you 
can have a road map to the better way of life 
that is Florida. 
Spring break is part of college, but it is not 
college. Four days have past since I left, but I 
still find myself on the beaches (baking in the 
sun). The time has come for school, for work, 
Garry Trudeail 
for what we, the young and restless, call 
"hell." 

Still, there is a purpose to what we do here at Notre Dame. Florida must wait; now is the time to learn. I was tempted to stay in Florida (and had I had my dad's credit cards I may have), but Florida will always be there. We, hopefully, will only be at Notre Dame for four short years. 
In today's world, a college degree is almost 
a prerequisite for success. If we did not 
believe that we would not be here. Most ofus 
seek success material; some of us seek spiri­
tual success. However we define success, all 
of us believe Notre Dame will help us find it. 
Otherwise, we would all be in Florida. 

I wondered how people can go to Florida 
and see how peaceful life can be, and then go 
back to their work with all the pressure that 
goes with it. Work is one long massive heart 
attack, but it is a matter of survival. People 
leave Florida, not because they want to, but 
because they must. 

Accepting the pressure and doing the work make the fun times seem so much more fun. Responsibilty comes with age. Oh, many ofus still called our parents to let them know we arrived safely in Florida, but more and more we are on our own. Vacations now are much more appreciated than vacations as children. Then, life was one constant vacation. 
Oh, I am not saying we have to go to Florida to relax (PadreIsland is nice too). Rather, I am saying that we should make a part ofeach day a vacation. Relax, as Frankie would say, or you'll die young before you have a chance enjoy life. 
And I am not saying pressure always follows 
hard work and that hard workleads to an early 
death. Look at Ronald Reagan. But it can. Re­
member Ernest Hemingway, Judy Garland, 
and Peter Sellers. They either could not cope 
with the pressure or overextended them­
selves. 

I have another law, Murphy's Universal Law, 
which states that you just do the best you can 
where you are; anyone can do less than his 
best. 

And so, I say at a time when the memories of spring break are fried into your being and the hope ofsummer springs forth in your soul, to be patient. Your season in the sun will come. For now, study, study, study. 
Nothing replaces persistence and hard work. Talent will not, nor will beauty. Hard work and determination make all things possi­ble, but do not let the pressure get the best of you. Ifyou do this now, later in life when you are old you can go to Florida (and sweat). I'll be there. Until then, hang ten and ride the waves oflife as a born surfer. 
P.S. Does anbody have a clean white shirt I can borrow? 
joseph Murphy is a sophomore govern­ment and international relations majorand is Viewpoint editor ofThe Observer. 
''JOAN!& REAIJ5 TO HIM, GIVES HIM PolicyA 8J.T7H, ANO 7HEN AFTER.OINNER, 5H& BR/N6S HIM 70M&PJII/1.& IM 

Viewpoint would like to bear from
tullTOf!NG 7HtN&JIJS, ANOI K/55 
you. If you would like to respond to

HIM GaJIJNIGHT. I 00 7H6CV&I<Y 
something you've read in The Observer, why not write a letter to the editor. Let­ters should be well-written, typed, no more than 250 words in length and must bear the signature of the author. Letters which are not signed by the au­thor will not bepublished. 
The Observerreserves the right to edit all material sul»nitted to the Viewpoint departmentfor publication. 



Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5Jt)3 
Ed1tbnn·Ch1e/ . Sarah E. Hamilton Bus1ness Manager. Dav.d Stephen,tch Managmg Ed1tor. . Amy Stephan Advert1smg Manager Anne Cull1gan
The Observer is the Independent newpaper published by the students of the 
News Editor. . Ke1th Harrison Jr. Controller. B1ll H1ghducheck
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
News Editor. Dan McCullough Systems Manager. Mark B Johnson
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as 
Samt Mary·s Execut1ve Ed1tor Theresa Guanno ProduCtion Manager John A. Mennell 
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
Sports Editor. .. Jeff Blumb of a maJonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column 
Accent Editor Mary Healy present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the V1ewpoint Ed1tor . Joe Murphy commun1ty. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. Photography Ed1tor Peter C. Lathes IS encouraged Copy Chief. Frank L1po Founded November 3, 1966 

Accent 
Class Rings 
More than prestige 
Dan Mc:CuUough 
features staff writer 
"T"he poet George Crabbe to the current ring design. "That 
.l once sald, gave added prestige to the Notre "The ring so worn as you behold, Dame ring," said Moran. So thin, so pale, is yet ofgold." Notre Dame rings can be bought There are a lot ofworn, yet only through the Hammes 
golden rings around the world from Bookstore. At Saint Mary's, the bookstores of Notre Dame and however, things are done a little Saint Mary's. differently. 
The familiar blue and gold ring Two companies offer rings for with the golden dome and sham· sale at Saint Mary's -the Balfour r rocks, and the antique gold crushed company, the same company who 
,. 
seal ofSaint Mary's act as symbols supplies Notre Dame's rings, and r which graduates carry with them the Herffjones company. Balfour is 
~ 
throughout life. located in Alburn, Mass. Herffjones, 
Garnering a class ring is a tradi· which is a division ofthe Carnation tion that many Notre Dame and Company, is from Monticello, Ind. Saint Mary's students take part in Unlike Notre Dame, where stu· 
dents can order their rings at any time (providing they are juniors, of course), Saint Mary's students are 
'' The style has not able to buy rings only when the representatives from the companies
changed, the same 

are on campus. "We try to provide design is still there. the opportunity for students to order rings at least once a month,"The rings now are a said Racine. "The student can order a ring directly from one of the com·
little larger than 

panics. But they usually use the they used to be. " bookstore service." Alumnae of the College are more Br. Conan Moran likely to order directly from one of 
the companies. "We act as an agent before graduation. And yet a ring is for the companies. The alumnae more than simply for traditional or could buy direct," said Racine. ornamental purposes. "We're just a go-between." 
"It's a prestigious thing," said The most popular time to order a Brother Conan Moran, Hammes ring at Saint Mary's is on Ring Day, a Notre Dame Bookstore manager traditional day ofdecision-making and resident class ring expert. for ring·orderers that takes place at "Most men wear a ring ofsome Saint Mary's usually in early Septem­
, 
kind. Notre Dame is one of the few ber, according to Racine.
r 
schools where the class ring is "Ring orders are also especially something that is really traditional. abundant during Saint Mary's 
r 
At some other schools, anybody can reunion weekends at the College,"r walk in and buy a ring." she added. Moran said he gets a
r 
"This is definitely not the case at "good number" of requests for rings 
r 
Notre Dame," exlaincd Moran. from alumni because, "People are "Only Notre Dame graduates are always losing their rings."
~ 
allowed to purchase a class ring. At Notre Dame, it's almost always The rings arc made available to busy around the ring counter which
, 
r 
students at the end of their sopho· is located in the back, left-hand 
r 
more year," said Moran, "because corner of the bookstore. "Certainly
r 
students will generally not drop out Junior Parents' Weekend is a good
r 
ofschool once they have entered
r 
their third year. Ifa student drops
r 
out during the summer between 
sophomore and junior year, he or 
" 
'' Notre Dame is 

she will not receive the ring even if the balance has already been paid." one of the few "We have several double checks 
schools where the 

on this," said Moran. "Students calls Notre Dame to order a ring," Ring buyers at Saint Mary's are At both schools, each ring is purchasing a ring must present a said Moran. given the choice ofa number of custom-made to the buyer's order. 
~ class ring is 
f 
valid 10 card. For alumni, ifwe Moran has been selling class rings different styles, designs and stones. This is why delivery takes a while. don't know them we'll check them something that is at Notre Dame since 1930, when "The most popular is the one you The inside ofeach ring may be 
out on the alumni list." class rings were first sold at the wear on your pinky. It's called the ingraved. Students can have three
really traditional.'' 

Similarly at Saint Mary's, only bookstore. He has seen fashion petite miniature," said Racine. initials engraved for no charge, or students are allowed to buy rings. change the way people live and "Every ring from the College has else they can pay by the letter for
Br. Conan Moran

According to Shaheen Bookstore dress and the shapes of the cars the official seal on it." their full name. Manager Barbara Racine, "Only they drive. But the passing genera­Stones are either smooth or cut. juniors and higher are allowed to weekend for rings. And graduation. tions have left one thing unchanged Moran estimated that About 90 to At Notre Dame, the metal can be buy rings." Agreat number ofsophomores buy -the Notre Dame class ring. 95 percent of the students who either 1 0 karat yellow or white 
In the early 1950s, said Moran, a their rings when the sales are first "The style has not changed, the graduate from Notre Dame buy a gold, 14 karat yellow or white gold, company from Okalahoma tried to opened to them," said Moran. This same design is still there," said class ring. The blue stone is the or the mysterious quasar plus. And copy the style of the Notre Dame way, students will not receive their Moran. "The rings now are a little most popular for both men and the ring can be antiquated or left ring and placed fake rings on sale in rings until September -guarantee­larger than they used to be. All women. Being the school colors, shiny. a dc.."J>artment store in downtown ing they will be returning for their college rings are larger." said Moran, it isn't surprising more While most people wear their South Bend. The legal counsel of junior year. of this type are sold than any else. ring from Notre Dame or Saint the Univer~ity hit the company with "It's a forgone conclusion that Class rings are a relatively new Every Notre Dame ring includes Mary's as a symbol ofprestige, 
a cease and desist order. when you see an ND ring on a per­tradition. "Prior to 1930 there were the golden dome, the insignia, the tradition or even as just an orna­
"lben they sued us for the right son there is a fairly good chance class pins," said Moran. "They were University seal and shamrocks. In ment, some people have the ring for to the ring style," recounts Moran. that the person graduated from fancy with the year the student the center is a stone, which can be other reasons. "The case was finally decided in a Notre Dame. Not very many stu­graduated in the middle." the tradition fire blue, the color of "Perhaps William Shakespeare federal court in northern Indiana. dents drop out after junior year," At Notre Dame, the styles range the buyer's birthstone, or any other said it best in "Richard Ill," 'Inc trial lasted a week. After the adds Moran. from the petite women's dinner of the various colors available. "Look, how my ring encompasseth (Jnivcrsity won, the company ap· "Sometimes a student will not be ring to the monstrous men's ring Racine said, "At Saint Mary's, the thy finger, pealed to a higher court in Chicago. able to afford a ring while they are with a diamond centered in black basic ring is pretty much the same. Even so thy breast encloseth my 'lhc first decision was upheld. It still in school. In that case, tl1e onyx. And the prices depend on What kind ofdiamond the buyer poor heart; was made final in 1954." lbe Uni· person will generally wait until he how much the customer wants to wants in the middle is what Wear both of them, for both of versity had won the exclusive rights is financially stable, and then he spend, according to Moran. determines the changes in price." them are thine." ( l,ii,204) 


··--~-----­
-

Wednesday, March 27, 1985 -page 6 -7 
NO's Rock-Alike look alikes jam tonight 
working really hard,'' said Tara Shea. Shea will be Keith Partridge in 
Karen McCloskey 
C
the Rock-Alike Partridge Family. features staff writer Madonna a .k .a. Linda Ryndak said, ''It'II all come offreally great ifwe lose your books, break your Contestants registered to enter have people come out. '' date, blow-offyourtest,plan to the contest before spring break and Joining The Time, The Partridge wash your hair another time, just attended practice sessions in Stepan Family, and Madonna will be twelve don't miss the Rock-Alike G>ntest at Center on Monday and Thesday other acts. Soloists include Bruce 9:30 tonight in the North Dining evenings. Springsteen, MickJagger, Cyndi Hall. Lauper, Stevie Nicks, Cyndi Lauper 
The Rock-Alike Contest will be a And TheWinner Is... (yes, another one), Pat Benatar, and combination ofall the concerts that The winner ofthe Notre Dame Bryan Adams. Barry Manilow may don't visit Notre Dame and the Rock-Alike contest will be deter­also make an appearance . parties ofyour wildest dreams, well, mined by audience participation. The Pointer Sisters will be there semi-wildest dreams. Eadt person paying admission to indrag, sharing the spotlight with 
The Contest is the rulminating the contest will receive a ballot The F.urythmics, The Monkees, and event ofnearly two months of ticket good for one vote. The vote Quiet Riot. fundraising organized by the ND should be cast for the best or favor­Millions Against M S Committee. ite Rock-Alike contestant. North goes Rock'n Roll 
The Rock-Alike Contest should Everyone is encouraged to vote North Dining Hall was chosen as 
be the biggest M S fundraising event more than once by purchasing the site for the Rock-Alike Contest held on campus both in tams of additional ballot tickets at the Con­for a number ofreasons. Bill Healy, money raised and student participa­test. The extra ballot tickets will dlairman ofthe Rock-Alike Contest, 
tion. cost S1 each. said,' 'We couldn't get the ACC. 
Contest organizers look favorably North Holds more people than upon ballot -box stuffing because Stepan(Center)." vote selling increases fundraising Healy arranged to use the dining 
revenues. Members ofthe audience hall through William Hickey, Direc­may also vote for more than one tor of Food Services. ''Mr. Hickey contestant . and his staffhave been extremely 

.. 


The Contest 

The contest itself is a competi­
tion in rock impersonation. Student 
contestants will don costumes and 
makrup and lip-sync onstage to the 
music oftheir favorite perlbrrners. 
The winner ofthe contest, the 
best impersonator, will enter the 
next round ofcompetition at the 
MTV b-ee concert to be held in 
April. At that time , the Notre Dame 
Rock-Alike winner will compete against the "Rock-Alikes" from the other schools in the Millions 
Against M S project . 
The winner ofthe overall compe­tition will receive a paid internship with MTVin New Yorkthisswn­mer. 
The Rock-Alike contestant with the most votes at the end ofthe evening will be named the Notre Dame Rock-Alike. 
"It's Gonna Be A Fun Time !" 
Vince Willis, co-Chairman ofND Millions Against M S, is enthusiastic about the Rock-Alike Contest. He said, "It's going to be a really good show. The acts are going to be 
really good. It's going to be a fun time.'' 
Several contestants shared Willis' enthusiasm . Dan Holland, Rock­Alike for Morris Day ofThe Time, said,' 'We've been practicing. It's the dance routine from 'Putple Rain'. The song we're doing is 'The Bird' . '' 
''People are going to be really surprised when they come out because these people have been helpful. He said, 'We'll do anything and everything we can to help you . ' '' Healy said. 
Hickey and his staffhave moved the North Dining Hall dinner to Stepan Center for the evening. The dinner in Stepan will have a special Rock-Alike theme. Dinner at South will not be changed. 
One Last Chance To Win 
Aline Gioffre, dlaitperson ofND Millions Against MS,ishopeful about the results ofthe Notre Dame fundraiser. With a good turnout at 
the Rock-Alike Contest, Gioffre thinks Notre Dame will win the 
MTV concert. 
''I'm afraid to say it in case some school does some fantastic thing,'' Gioffresaid. "We'reoneofthetop sdlools in terms ofmoney raised. 
Velvet Underground's sound-timeless treasure 

Tim Adams 
Record review 
T
he Velvet Underground. You've probably never heard a song by them. Then again, you've probably never heard of them, for that matter. But without the Vel­vets, today's music scene would certainly not be the same. 
They never sold many records, but their influence on thousands of bands is, and has been, felt in ~ kinds ofmusic, from avant garde to punk. The Velvets were never the 
most technically proficient band, 
but nonetheless they gave proof 
that inspiration, imagination, and 
succinctness were all that great 
music required. 
To commemorate the 20th an­
niversary of the Velvet Under­
ground's formation, PolyGram 
Records has re-released their first 
three albums, The Velvet Under­
ground and Nico, White 
Ught/White Heat, and The Velvet 
Underground. In addition, the com­
pany has also issued I 0 previously 
unreleased songs by the Velvets, 
recorded between February, 1966 and October, 1969, on a new album called V.U.. 
V.U. is immediately striking be­cause of its very high fidelity. Obvi­ously, much care went into the process of mixing and engineering the 10 songs; they sound as ifthey were recorded yesterday. Ifyou're familiar with the Velvet Under­ground's songs, you'll be startled at 
how good the group can sound 
when produced well. 
Not that the production makes the album; the songs themselves are the stars. Two ofV.U.'s songs feature bassist John Calc, who departed in September, 1968. "I Can't Stand It" is one ofthese, a resonating ditty which displays the group in peak form. Calc's rumbling bass, the dual frenetic guitar work ofSterling Morrison and Lou Reed, and Maureen Tucker's solid drum­ming all choogle along, with Reed, 
in his Brooklyn accent, singing, "I can't stand it any maw, maw." The other song which features Calc is "Temptation inside Your Heart." Bongo-spiced and a little nutty, "Temptation" is a hip, fast-paced 
composition that cannot be 
resisted. My only regret is that it 
isn't any longer. At any rate, these 
two songs are quite good. 
In fact, V.U. does not contain a 
bum song. Even with the variety 
represented here, the Velvets have 
shown that they can handle it all, from hard rockers to romantic 
ballads. Surprisingly, lots ofVelvet 
Underground fans think that the 
Velvets' ballads are some of their 
best songs. From the robotic yet 
effective singing ofGerman chan­
teuse Nico on "Femme Fatale" to 
Lou Reed's touching, restrained 
vocal performance on "Pale Blue 
Eyes," this "wimpy" outlet has proved to be a pot ofgold for the 
Velvets. 
On V.U., "Stephanie Says" and "I'm Sticking with You" similarly join the ranks ofclassic 60s ballads. The former is simple and beautiful. From the soft, tuneful backup sing­ing to the delicate instrumentation (featuring xylophone and viola), this song gives the listener a really good feeling. "I'm Sticking with You," the other ballad, ends the album in grand fashion. Sung mostly by Maureen Tucker (who makes up in directness what she lacks in vocal strength), this one will remind you of another old Mo Tucker vocal piece called "Afterhours." Except on "Sticking," Tucker receives help from the rest ofthe band towards 
the end, as they build up to a low crescendo. It's a glorious ending, one that signifies fidelity to a friend, lover, or both. 
Lou Reed, who has gone on to a solo career of some note, sings the rest of the songs on V.U.. He gets aggressive, as does the guitar playing, on the hard-rocking "Foggy Notion," but then he rattles off the child-like lyrics on the funny We have a good chance to win. 
Marquette is our closest rival.'' 
Gioffre commented on the Rock­
Alike contest, ''We have some good 
participants. It is the final major 
event. We need the full support of 
the student body in order to make it 
a success.'' 

''Beingour last major event, we hope people will come out and support it,'' Gioffre continued. ''We hope the student body has enjoyed the events. We appreciate the par­ticipation given. This is one last 
contribution. '' 

Following this weekend, the official ND Millions Against M S contribution will be sent to the New Yorkofficeofthe National Multiple Sclerosis Society. Gioffre requests that all organizations and donns deliver their money as soon 
• 
"Andy's Chest" without a hitch. adventurous. All oftheir studio Perhaps his best work is on "She's albums, except Loaded, have been My Best Friend.'' a darn fine pop re~mixed, so their sound quality is song. He sings pleasantly through­probably pretty good. V.U. sounds out the song, and when he needs to good, and ifsound quality is what 
l
go higher, he does it wonderfully. you seek, I heartily recommend it. Ifyou're not familiar with anyth­But every one oftheir albums con­ing that the Velvet Underground tains several classics, and each 
i 
has done, I would advise you to try deserves a listen. So get a little any oftheir albums, except possibly adventurous and go discover what a White Light/White Heat, which lot ofhappy music fans already should be reserved until you get know. 
j 
j 
l • ~ 
j 
-

i 

as possible. All contributions should be delivered to 238 Lewis Hall by 
Friday morning. 
The Place To Be Tonight 
The festivities begin tonight at 
9:30 in North Dining Hall. Admis­sion will be S3 . and include one vote ballot. Tickets are on sale during dinner in the dining halls. Tickets will also be available at the door. 
Pizza, JXlX:Offi, and soft drinks 
will be sold for a nominal marge. 
All door and refreshment proceeds 
go to the fight against MS. 
Healy said, ' 'We're hoping for 
1000-1500people. we'rereally 
excited about the number ofcon­
testants. We have fifteen." 

J ~ 
-
• 
Sports Briefs 
An Tostal innertube water polosignups will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Hall lobby. An entry fee of S7 will be charged for the 64-team tournament, which begins on Tuesday. Teams must consist ofat least seven players, two of whom must be women. No more than two varsity swimmers or water polo club members may be on one team. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will be meeting for practice today and Friday at 4 p.m. and tomorrow at 4:30p.m. on Stepan Field. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Clubwillmeettonightat 
6:30 in room 204 O'Shaughnessy. The club will hold practice for this weekend's freshman icebreaker regatta tomorrow from 4 p.m. to 6 
p.m. All first-year sailors, especially crew, are invited to attend.-The Observer 
NVA spring sports captains must attend meetings this week. Mens' softball team captains will meet today at 
4:30 p.m., women's softball captains at 5 p.m. and floor hockey cap­tains at 5:15 p.m. Women's soccer team captains will meet tomorrow at 4:30p.m., open soccer captains at 5 p.m. and baseball captains at 5:15 p.m. All meetings will be held in the football auditorium at the ACC. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Water Polo Clubwm be meeting for practice tomorrow from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone who is interested may attend; no previ­ous experience is necessary. For more information, call Marianne Buckley at 283-3891. -The Observer 
The ND Skateboard Club will be meeting tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. outside the LaFortune Little Theatre to dis­cuss ramp construction. -The Observer 
An off-campus lacrosse team is now forming. Anyone who is interested should attend a meeting tomorrow at 6 
p.m. in LaFortune and bring proof of insurance. For more informa­tion, call Dan at 287-6262. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball team captains must attend a mandatory meeting on Sunday from 1:15 p.m. to 2:30 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium. This is the only time schedules will be distributed. Tournament action kicks off on April 9 with the Hall of Fame game. -The Observer 
Classifieds 
I 

Wednesday, March 27, 1985 -page 8 
Professional wrestling is coming to Stepan Cen­ter. The MS Drive presents World Wrestling Federation "Wrestlemania," a closed-circuit broadcast live from Madison Square Garden on Sunday at 1 p.m. Tickets are on sale now at the Gate 10 ticket office at the ACC and at Rock du Lac. All proceeds go to Multiple Sclerosis. -The Observer 
A K.nute Rockne memorial Mass and break­fast will be held on Sunday by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley at 9 a.m. in the West side of the South Dining Hall. For more information or to make reservations, call Pat Novitzki at 237-5392.­
The Observer 

Dancin' Irish tryouts are coming up. An organiza­tional meeting for anyone interested in trying out will be held on Monday at 7 p.m. in the Chautaqua Ballroom. For more information, call Debbie at 283-3552 or Lisa at 283-2697.-The Observer 
Several top amateur wrestlers from the United States and Japan will participate in an international challenge match on Thursday, April 4, at 7 p.m. in the ACC. Some Olympians and NCAA champions will compete, including Irish assistant coach John Azevedo, the NCAA 57 kg. champ. Tickets are available now at the Gate 10 ticket office of the ACC at S5 for adults and S3 for stu­dents 18 and under.-The Observer 
An interhalllacrosse league is being formed by NVA. The deadline for entries is Monday, April 8. For more infor­mation, call the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Observer 
Interhall baseball umpires are being sought by NVA. Anyone who is interested may ill! out an application at the NVA office. -The Observer 
Think you're a better refthan those in the Big Ten? Perhaps you would like to reffor Non-Varsity Athletics and the Bookstore Basketball tournament. Ifso, call Mike Dunn at the NVA office (239-6100). Previous experience is preferred but not neces­sarily required. -The Observer 
The St. Mary's softball team opened its season yesterday by sweeping a doubleheader from Bethel College, win­ning by scores of 1 0-3 and 12-9. The team hosts Nazareth College in another twinbill today at 3:30p.m. -The Observer 
Golf 

continuedfrom page 12 
Fuhrer posted a score of 264. "Steve 
was a pleasant surprise during the 
fall," says O'Sullivan. "Being named 
to the all-conference team has 
proven his skill." 

The spring trip tournament was 
played on Miami's Fountainbleau 
Course, a par-72 championship­
calibre site with a 73.5 course rating. 
"I wouldn't know what to do with­
out spring trips," O'Sullivan com­
ments. "They're a necessity. We'd be 
in the intramural leagues without 
them." 

The Irish begin their spring 
season Saturday with the Tri-State 
meet. "Our goal is to try and break 
the course record of 359," says 
O'Sullivan optimistically regarding 
the 13-year-old mark. 

Sunday is a triangular meet against 
Xavier University (Cincinnati) and 
Detroit's Wayne State. Both meets 
are scheduled for the Burke 
Memorial Golf Course. 

This weekend's play also marks the beginning of the season for the Irish blue team, the second squad. "This could very well be the best blue team ever," says O'Sullivan. The No. 1 player for the blue team is junior Tim Hanlon, followed by sop­homores Tom Ryan and Mike Cul­ver, and freshmen Joe Hills and John Parker. Junior Blake Garside, who O'Sullivan calls the "true" No. 1 on the blue team, will be out for the spring season after having hand sur­
gery. 

O'Sullivan is confident that the success in Florida will serve as a for­midable springboard for the spring. In addition to the two home dual meets, five 54-hole tournaments lie ahead for the Irish in which they will face teams representing the Big Ten, the Mid-American Conference and major independents, among others. 
''I'm going to enjoy this season," O'Sullivan says. "I really am. The rap­port, consideration and respect be­tween the players has been wonderful. 
"We hit a pretty good thing down there in Florida. It can happen again." 
The Ohsert•er Notre Dame office. located on th<· third floor of l.atonunc Student Center. a<-cepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until ·i p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obsert'er Saint Mary·s office. I<Katcd on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts clas~ifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. until :\p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next·day dassifieds b :\ p.m. All dassificds must be prepaid. either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five chara<·­ters erda·. 
FOUND: CROSS PEN AND PENCIL IN  ""Nice boat. but where·sthe chicken???""  You  Need  E..ter Aide?  Rockford.IL:  YOU MAY HAVE MISSED 11  
NOTICES  ROOM 124 NIEULAND SCIENCE BLDG. CALL TIM at2543 TO IDENTIFY  FOR SALE  Seniors-want to sell some gear wllen you  Beloit.Madison.LaCrosse.WI: I'm leaving 04/03/85 Cllll 3360, Steve  LAST SEMESTER NO MORE EXCUSES  
graduate? Will make a Very Reasonable  IT"S BACK  
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-3H7  Lost: Maroon Samsonite overnight bag  Offer for a small refrigerator If interested  NEED RIDERS TO FLORIDA-LEAVING  BEWARE  
containing BOOKS and personal items.  1978  Pontiac  Grand  LeMans.  Air­ call x258-2998  412. CALL FOR DET AILS-3884-MARY  THE BEAUX ARTS BALL  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-40112  Lost 3/16 between NO and SMC. REWARD offered. no questions. Please  condlitioned, No rust. One owner, good condition. $2800. 282-1805.  HUNGRY? CALL THE  YELLOW SUB  NEED  RIDE  TO  APRIL 12, 9:30 BE THERE!  
call Barb at 283-3846.  For sale: La Belle slide projector. carrying  FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO-TH 8-11 pm FA-SA 8pm-1am  MIAMI(OHIO)/DA YTON.3/29. GLENN AT 3460  CALL  
WORDPROCESSING 272-8827  AND  TYPING  WANTED  case. lour stack loaders. Superb condj­tion. 277-1226 alter 7. $50.  ROCKAUKEI ROCKAUKEI ROCKALIKEI ROCKALIKEI  CLEVELAND: ride needed to Willowick arealate4/4. Call1250.  ITALIAN CLUB NEWS The ND/SMC ITALlAN CLUB Will be meeting this Thursday at 6:30 1n the  
WOAOPROCESSING  TONIGHT 9:30PM  LaFortune Little Theatre. Elect1ons of next  
277-ll045 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER. 233-7001. TYPING J..:kleBogga 684-117113 Word Proc8QI ng -Call Andrea at 283­3880from9:00am·11:00pm. GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U repair). Alao dehnquenttax property. Call 805-687·6000 Ext. GH-9834 lor informa­tion. BURKAT COMPUTER CENTER SOFTWARE AND ACCESSORIES FOR MACINTOSH BEST SELECTION SUPER LOW PRICES. All SOFTWARE 2o-50/ OFF 3105 MISHAWAKA AVE. 287-3344 AOCKAUKEI ROCKALikEI  Relatives traveling from El S.lvador to see beloved pres1dent. So. I need many COMMENCEMENT tickets. Call 3811 or you may lind a guerilla at your door. RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED ANYWHERE FROM S. PA. TO DC AREA FOR EASTER. CAN LEAVE ASAP AFTER WED PM-ALAN 3128 HISTORY TEACHER. FORMER TRAVEL AGENT. PLANNING SUMMER IN EUROPE. SEEKS PERSON OR PER­SONS WITH SIMILAR PLANS AS TRAVELING COMPANION/$. CALL JACK YOUNG: 616-683-0547. Ex. 36. SA FORMAL TICKET NEEDED­IF YOU RE WILLING TO SELL YOURS FOR FULL PRICI!l, CALL 232-0659 OR 232-5432. NEED BICYCLE FOR APRIL-MAY. WANT TO RENT OR BUY. MUST IN GOOD SHAPE SEAN 277-3953 WANTED: A place to live next year! If you  TICKETS HELP I f f ONLY CHILD NEEDS 7.SEVENI. GRAD TIX. If I dan·t gel ·em, they won 1spoil me anymore. If you share your tix, Ill share what I have. CALL KAREN 277-6740. PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT "TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. PITI CLUB EASTER BUS SIGNUPS: THURSDAY, 6 P.M. LAFORTUNE LITILE THEATER. $45 ROUND TRIP, $30 ONE WAY. FIRST COME, FIRST SERVED. QUESTIONS? CALL A.J. AT 1657.  NORTH DINING HALL ROCKALIKEI ROCKAUKEI ROCKALIKEI ROCKALIKEI TONIGHT!Ill COME OUT AND SEE YOUR FRIENDS IMITATE THEIR FAVORITE ROCK STARS!II 3 MEN FROM DILLON WILL BE THE POINTER SIS'rERS!!I BRUCE!!! THE TIME!I!! MADONNA!!! THE MONKEYS!!!!! THE STONES!!!! AND MANY MORE!!!I ROCKALIKEI TONIGHT 9:30PM NORTH DINING HALL FUN, EXCITEMENT, ....... FOODIII TONIGHT 9:30PM All PROCEEDS GO TO THE MILLON$ AGAINST M.S. CAMPAIGN!! THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO COME OUT AND FIGHT M.S.!!III!! 9:30 NORTH DINING HALL ....BE THERE !I ELAINE. KATHY. & KIM, lHANKS FORA GREAT BREAK IN SANIBEL! JUST A FEW REMINDERS: CHOWDER AND PRIME RIB-I HATE THAT. RAMONE  LOST a ladies gold seiko ,;etch around and about ma1n or south quad about 2 weeks belore spring break--heaps and bunches of sentimental value is attached to it--please call Heather at 3763 if you have found it--thanks! FOUND: ONE COAT AND ONE BOOK ON THE WASH DC BUS. CALL3744 TO CLAIM THEM. Whoever lett me in charge of their pearls at the last Dillon SYR. please call me to cla1m. Eric Schneeman at3744 Rosemary Max and May: Thanks lor being such great roomres in Lauderdale Don'tlorget about our party! If you bring Squish, I'll bring Pookey. May-we have to write to !hose guyslrom U.T. Jeff Herman-Hope you enjoyed your break I'm from New York originally, too. Love, Your Secret Admirir. TAM THANX FOR THE BEST BREAK  year's officers are scheduled and details of llahan Cullure Week will be discussed. TONIGHT All are Invited toe free ehowtng of the cl..alcal w..tern film "'HIGH NOON"' etarrlng Gary Cooper and e commentary-dlecuulon of the film by Prof. William Krter Dept. of Englfah Tonight-March 27-7:00 PM Howard Hell JIM TABOR CORE COURSE Player of the week: Lonnie Erklne Character Reference for NANCY ELLEN VAST (a.k.a. Pasley, Penguin, Rosebud) Enjoys--leaching Archys about astrologi­cal phenomena Greatest Strengths·· rewrrting songs: "Love rs a nose so you  
AOCKALIKEI ROCKALIKEI TONIGHT 11:30 NORTH OININO HALL MILLON& AGAINST MS ROCKAUKEI ROCKALIKEI  are rn need of an extra man for 11 house, or have yet to lind an OC home. call Ray at 2059. ROUND TRIP CHARTER FLIGHT FROM  JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: CAREER PREPARATION FOR YOUR SENIOR YEAR. WED., MARCH 27,6:30 P.M. 118 NIEUWLANO SCIENCE HALL.  AND SERGE SAW SHIRLEY A K­MARTS BLUE LIGHT SPECIAL­SPONGES. THANK GOD '"WE'RE OVER THAT!"' I CAN T PUT All THAT I REALLY WANT TO SAY. BUT I THINK  EVERIHL YWO BCH WILL NEVER BE THE SAME WHAT IF ... Obi Wan Kenobo were JeWisn  better not p1ck it and ""Throw off your Greatest Weakness-­authorlly problem: "'Nancy. put your beer in the car '"Some fun you are, Bob! Per­sonal References-­'"I OON"T KNOW  
- LOST/FOUND I  SOUTH BEND TO ST. LOUIS FOR EASTER S120 CALL 1527 JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: CAREER PREPARATION FOR YOUR  SPONSORED BY CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. PRESENTA­TION REPEA TEO ON MARCH 28. JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: CAREER PREPARATION FOR YOUR  YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN... MM YOU GOT THAT RIGHT. -PROMY TO THE TASTY MUNCHES: John. Dan.  Darth is !hat you? Just look at you now. You used to be my best student. Twenty years and not even s post card from you... I could be dead lor all you know .... ··  HIM!!'. (Aren·t you glad we d1dn·1 write your recommendation?) CONGRATS ON YOUR I.U. MEO SCH ACCEPTANCEI// Dear T -club. At times lh1ngs got ugly but  
SENIOR YEAR. WED., MARCH 27, 6:30  SENIOR YEAR. WED., MARCH 27, 6:30  Sully. Chris, and Eddy. Thanks for making  ugly things always come sooner or later  
P.M.118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL.  P.M. 118 NIEUWLANO SCIENCE HALL.  Spring Break so much tun. It wouldn"l  RIDERS  NEEDED  TO  VANDER­ Thanks for an awesome week. With you I  
WASHINGTON, D.C. IS WHERE I NEED  SPONSORED  BY  CAREER  AND  SPONSORED  BY  CAREER  AND  have been the same without you. When  Bill/NASHVILLE.  LEAVING  THURS  feel so secure. Advice from H81di: "Even  
A RIDE TO. CAN LEAVE THURS .. APRIL  PLACEMENT SERVICES. PRESENTA­ PLACEMENT SERVICES. PRESENTA­ are you gomg to tuck us in? Love. the  3/28. CALL MARK ANY TIME. DAY OR  when il is flowing In a b1g way, you can sun  
4 CALL JOHN 277-0607.  TION REPEATED ON MARCH 28.  TION REPEATED ON MARCH 28.  Gumbelles.  NIGHT, AT 1638. RETURNING ON SUN  /eel happy. Sexually yours.  MC  

he Observer Wednesday, March 27, 1985 -page 9 
Referee Bain sues over 
Piane named coach of the year 
Notre Dame cross country coach Joe Piane was honored by being named District IV coach of the year along with Gary Wieneke of Illinois at the NCAA Indoor Track Championships in Syracuse, N.Y. The 37-year old Piane guided the Irish to their most successful campaign in his 1 0 seasons with a nineteenth place finish at the NCAA cham­pionships. 
"It's a tribute to the kids and 
not to me," offered Piane upon 
hearing ofthe award. "Thi~ year's 
teain just did an excellent job. All 
along I knew they had the poten­
tial to qualify for the NCAA's and 
they did it in one of the nation's 
toughest regions." · 
Piane's tenth edition of Irish cross country swept through the regular season with an unde­feated slate and then placed fourth in the District IV cham­
pionships behind Wisconsin, Illi­nois and Michigan. During the course of the year, Notre Dame captured its second 

disputed T -shirt design 
title for the first time in 19 years. 
In addition the Irish also gar­nered first place finishes in the 
Associated Press Midwestern City Conference 
IOWA CllY, Iowa · A Johnson 
competition and the Indiana Invi­County District Court jury was tational. 
charged late Tuesday with deciding
In addition to being named if Big Ten Conference referee Jim District IV cross country coach of Bain was libeled by a T-shirt the year, Piane has been ap­showing him with a rope around his pointed as president of the neck. 
Central Collegiate Conference. 
Judge Paul Kilburg dismissed the The league consists of 25 mem­jurors until 8 a.m. Wednesday after 
ber institutions and organizes an­charging them just before 5 p.m. 
nual cross country, indoor and Bain, 53, of Decatur, Ill., is suing outdoor track championships Iowa Ciry T-shirt printer John Gil­and was founded by legendary lispie for an unspecified cash settle­
. Irish football coach Knute ment. Bain claims the T-shirt shows 
Rockne. 
him in a hangman's noose and has "I intend to encourage better 
participation by the 25 confer­ence schools," says Piane about his goals during his two year ten­
Irish 
ure. "I'd also like to see the or­
continuedfrom page 12
ganization get more exposure in the track community." 
Loyola was. In a sloppy, rain-soaked game, Notre Dame played well 
"DON'T BlAME ME! I VOTED FOR MONDALE!" 
Bumperstickers for only $2: 
B.P., P.O. Box 433 
Edison, NJ 08818 
against a Loyola team that had beaten the Irish, 27-10, a few years ago. The Greyhounds also are making a bid to reach the Top Ten. 
Thanks mostly to senior attack­man Bob Trocchi's four goals and two assists, Notre Dame was able to keep Loyola from running away like it did in the past game. Although 
AnENTION SPORTSWRITERS 
There will be a mandatory meeting on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Observer office to set up coverage of spring sports. Anyone not able to attend should call Jeff Blumb at 239·5323 BEFORE the meeting. 
WANTED: Members of the Class of '87 for Junior Class Government 
We're tough. We're mean. We hate puppies. We know that there is a Red under every bed. Richard Simmons is a whimp. We don't eat quiche. We don't even know what it is. We steal candy from babies. We drink Jack Daniels. Straight. Without ice cubes. We'd sell our little sisters down the river for some more money. We don't bathe. We don't write good, and we can't even spel. And we never laugh. Ever. 
We are fighting a war for fun social life, quality service projects, and academic and liturgical excellence, and we're looking for Soldiers and Soldierettes of Fortune. The hours are long and the pay is non-existent, but ihe people are friendly, the activities are exciting, and the constituents, the Class of '87, make up the best Class ever! 
Are you Interested in joining Notre Dame's most exciting branch of Student Government?? Do you want to make next year a terrific one for the Class of '87? If you answered yes to the above questions pick up an application for Junior Advisory Board and Junior Committee positions. 
Applications can be picked up in the Student Activities Office, located In the main lobby of the LaFortune Student Center, from Wednesday, March 27 through Wednesday April 3. Applications are due back to the Student Activities Office by no later than 5:00p.m. Wednesday April 3. 
We encourage all IJ:lembers of the Class to apply and contribute as much time as you can. (ondon Program people are welcome."With your participation and continued enthusiasm THE BEST IS YET TO COME for the Class of '87. 
damaged his career, reputation and peace ofmind. 
Bain's lawyer, David Dutton of Waterloo, claimed in his closing statement that Gillispie created aT­shirt showing B;tin being hanged in effigy for the purpose of capitalizing on a storm of protest Bain created with a late foul call at a March 6, 1982 basketball game between Iowa and Purdue. 
In that game, Bain called a shoving foul on Iowa's Kevin Boyle as _time elapsed. The late call allowed Purdue's Dan Palombizio to make two free throws with no time left. 
they never threatened after tying the score, 1-1, early in the first quarter, the Irish played better as the game progressed. 
"We wanted to make sure that we kept improving during the game," said O'Leary. "We wanted to end the game well and everything worked out favorably." 
Unfortunately for the Irish, though, they were not able to dupli­cate their performance against Duke and New Hampshire, two teams that had more talented players than Notre Dame. The Blue Devils blew open a close game in the final minutes of the first half, while New Hampshire took the Irish out of the game early by scoring nine of the first ten goals. 
"I'm disappointed because, if we had played as well against Duke and New Hampshire as we did against Loyola, we would have won at least one more game," says O'Leary. "The teams we played were better than us, but I feel the scores were not in­
dicative ofour team. 
"We did get a real good assess­ment of the team, though. We knew we were going in over our heads in the Loyola Tournament (where the Irish played ·both the Greyhounds and New Hampshire), but we learned just how good we are compared to the teams of the East. 
"We're able to sit down now and better evaluate the individual talent and develop an offense that our tal­ent is capable of running," adds O'Leary. 
Offense does seem like the major weakness of the Irish after the trip. Trocchi (five goals, five assists) and Joe Franklin (nine goals, one assist) played well on the attack, but the midfielders failed to show much scoring punch. 
"We're going to have to change our philosophy a little," says O'Leary. "We thought we could score in settled situations by creat· ing offense with our middies. We concentrated a lot on that in practice, but we couldn't do it against the teams we played, and we hadn't practiced in an unsettled sit· uation which was our strength last year. Now we'll try to do both so we can get a good offense." 
IRISH ITEMS · Notre Dame will play half of its home schedule in the next week as Lake Forest, Kenyon College (Saturday), and Radford (next Wednesday) all visit Cartier. 
Engineering Week 
Treasure Hunt Clue 1: When found, this prize will be your crowning achievemPnt. Clue 2: This clue is the right size for March 17tll Clue 3: To win, you will have to come perilously close to the forbidden fruit. 
When you find the certificate, contact Mary George, x3680. 



Wednesday, March 27, 1985-page 1
The Observer 

{******************
Hudson works with quarterbacks; 
*TONIGHT -SENIORS-TONIGHT
Stock moves to direct Irish offense 
* 
By MARlY BURNS "The offensive coordinator 
~''SHOW OFF YOUR TAN"
Sports Writer assumes the responsibility ofsetting up the game plan and the overall of­Benjamin Franklin, who did fensive philosophy;'' says Stock. "But everything but coach college foot­the actual planning of the offensive 
~ PARTY 
ball, once said, "an ounce ofpreven­philosophy will be group-oriented tion is worth a pound ofcure." as it has been in the past." 
It was with this thought in mind that Notre Dame assistant football So far in the young spring football 
~ At coach Ron Hudson asked Head season, both Irish coaches have 
~ 
Coach Gerry Faust earlier this stepped boldly into their new roles . 
•~ month to take Franklin's advice by Hudson is testing the young quarter­* 
~ SENIOR BAR
reassigning Hudson's own duties as backs to find out which are ready to offensive coordinator. This move take the backup role, while Stock is would enable Hudson to concen­trying to fill the holes in the offen­trate solely on the task ofdeveloping sive lineup left behind by graduating
! *ltiMPORTNIGHT, DJ, DANCING 
freshmen quarterbacks Terry seniors. t 
"We're losing three quality 
~ 9:00-?
players in (center) Mike Kelley,
• 
(guard) Larry Williams, and (tight 
*******************
t end) Mark Bavaro," notes Stock. "There is going to be some move­ment in positions among the Ron Hudson linemen. We just need to find people we can count on and the right com­the 1-formation and then throwing binations." from the split-back, but that became 
As for any changes in the general too predictable, and we'll need offensive scheme, Stock hesitates to some diversity. make any binding decisions at this "Also," continues Stock, "we are early juncture. going to put (wide receivers) Tim 
"Depending on what we see this Brown and Reggie Ward at flanker, spring," says Stock, "we'll then and then put Milt Jackson and Alvin decide the personality of the of­Miller at split end. Brown and Ward fense. Our attack in the past has been will give us the double threat as centered on the rushing game, and receivers and ball-carriers In the that took us down the road last backfield. season. We have the same nucleus Finally, Stock hopes to see a new returning, so we'll probably use that spirit on the offensive squad this same philosophy. year. 
A couple specific changes which "This team must play with Mike Stock Stock is looking over during the feeling," he notes. "We are going to spring, however, involve an adapted have to dig deep if things get rocky. Andrysiak, Tom Byrne, and Pat offensive formation, and a new This is Notre Dame. Everybody Pesavento. flanker position for a pair of former came here because of the tradition, 
As a result, Hudson assumed the wide receivers. and they have to realize that the sole duty of quarterback coach, "We would like to run more from tradition is now." · while Irish assistant Mike Stock took the split-back formation," notes Benjamin Franklin himself could over the reins of offensive coordina­Stock. "We had been running out of not have said it better. 
tor. 

The Irish coaches are now hoping that through this move they can prevent the potential crisis of not having a capable quarterback to run the offense in the event of an injury to starting quarterback Steve Beuer­lein. Last year's backup, Scott Grooms, will graduate in May, leaving only the three freshmen to fiJI his role. 
"(Hudson) felt there was just not 
enough time to do the job he wanted 
when it came to working with the 
young quarterbacks as well as coor­
dinating the ideas of the offensive 
staff." said Faust when he made the 
announcement of the coaching switch. 
Although Hudson will be relin­quishing the role ofoffensive coord­inator, Faust will still look to him for help with the offensive philosophy. 
"We want to be able to go into the fall with confidence in our backup quarterbacks, and that's going to re­quire all of Ron's attention this spring and in the fall," continued Faust. "But when it comes to plan­ning the offense, the quarterback coach is going to be just as involved as anyone else." 
The official task of coordinating the offensive philosophy now will be thrown to pass receivers coach Mike Stock. Stock will continue to serve as pass receivers coach, al­though his other duties, that of special-teams coach and recruiting coordinator, have been reassigned 
to fellow assistant coaches Mal Moore and joe Yonto, respectively. 
Stock, who is in his third year of a second tour of duty as an Irish assis­tant, is no stranger to the offensive coordinator role, as he held that ex­act job for three seasons at the Uni­versity of Wisconsin before moving on to be head coach at Eastern Mic­higan for five years. 
Stock feels that his role will be to basically synthesize the ideas of the Irish coaching staff into a successful offensive philosophy. 
Summer Special Rates 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683·1959 
•¥ERY 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
2Yz MILES NORTH US 31-33 




SENIOR BAR,the fun nest bar on campus,
•GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 
is now accepting applications for
Master Mini Warehouses 
1985-86 managerial positions. 

Have you got what it takes?? 

Don't miss this once-in-a-lifetime pportunity for FAME, FORTUNE, and FUNII 
Pick up and return applications at the ·Student Activities Office in Lafortune by Fri., March 29 at 5:00pm·. 
P.S. It'll look great on your resume!! 

Applications for Off Campus Coordinators available in Student Government Offices 
Openings in the 
following commissions: •Liturgical •social •Athletic eSocial Concerns/ 

Community Affairs •Treasurer Must be living Off Campus next year Deadline: Monday, April1 Any questions? Call Beaver: 2225 
Hey You! 

~c:tcJlCl~----------------------------~-w--crm_e_~_a_y_,M_~_ro 
27_,_19_8_s p_ag_e_ll 


BJoom ilimty 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 N.T. book 5 Musefora 
laureate 10 Fiasco 14 Witticism 15 Gaseous 
element 16 Silkworm 17 Certain school 
letters 18 Form of 
combat 20 Baboon 21 Gait 22 Dismissal 23 Brook denizen 25 Genesis victim 27 Tossing game 29 BigApple 
attraction 33 Scriptural preposition 34 Capote the 
author 36 Fruit drink 37 Cavell or 
Bunker 39 West of Ida. 40 Bargain events 42 Liquor 43 Afr. antelopes 46 Fr. girl's 
title: abbr. 47 Superfluous 49 Chatters 51 Discharge 52 Alliance 
acronym 53 Lewis Carroll 
heroine 56 Friendly talk 57 Network 60 Type of 
salesman 63 Singular 64 Chill 65 Sculpt 66 Disembarked 67 Pink table 
wine 68 Totaled 69 Insect 
DOWN 1 -vitae 2 Moonpoint 
©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
3/27/85
All Rights Reserved 
Tue~ay 's Solution 
3 From -(occa­
sionally) 4 Resort 5 Deplete 6 Spring back 7 A Bancroft 8 Wool weight 9 Can. prov. 
10 Lo! 11 Algerian port 12 Chin. dynasty 13 Invited 19 Vast amounts 21 Kitchen item 24 Tumult 25 Ready for war 26 Python 27 Grain grinder 28 Inappropriate 


3/27/85

29 Comic George 30 Like carpeting 44 Wreath 55 Certain debts 31 An Astaire 45 Lanced 56 String 32 Agreements 48 lrade 58 Indian 35 Entree 50 Deserter 59 Gr. letter 38 Batter's 52 Elbow 61 Edible tuber 
protection 53 Heb. month 62 Father 41 Amo, amas,-54 Trademark 63 U.K. flyers 
Berke Breathed The Far Side 
@ 1985 Universal Press 
Campus 

•
3:30p.m. -Lacrosse, NO vs. Lake Forest, Car· tier Field. 

•3:30p.m.-Lecture, 
"Carl Sandburg: Chicago Author in His Setting," Prof. Emeritus Ernest Sandeen, Prof. Thomas Schlereth and Prof. Thomas Werge, Ubrary Auditorium. 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "Poverty and the Irish Eco­nomy Before the Famine," Prof. joel Mokyr, Northwestern University, Room 122 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by The Ancient Order of Hibernians Endowment Fund. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Are Weak Vector Bosons Composites?" Prof. Kamal Dutta, Delhi University and Southern Illinois, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Interaction of the Chicken Oviduct Progesterone Receptor with Target Gene DNA In Vitro," Dr. john Com­pton, Baylor College of Medicine, Room 278 Galvin. 

•6:
15 p.m. -Circle K Meeting, CSC. , 

•6:30 
p.m. -Presentation ForAlljuniors, "Preparation For Your Senior Year," Paul Reynolds, Asst. Director, Career & Placement Services, 118 Nieuwland, Also on Thursday, Free. 

•7p.m.-WednesdayNightFilmSerles, 
"My Darling Clementine," ETS Theatre ofCCE. 

•
7 & 9:30p.m. & 12 a.m. -Film, "Firefox," En­gineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, 51.50. 

•7 
p.m. -RASTA Meeting, CSC, All Are Welcome. 

•7 
p.m.-Film, "High Noon," Followed by a Commentary/Discussion by Prof. William Krier, Howard Hall, Free Admission. 

•7 
p.m. -Discussion, "All You Wanted to Know About Life in Mexico and Aren't Afraid to Ask," Dr. Olivera-Williams, 110 O'Shaughnessy. 


TV Tonight 
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
28  Wheel ofFortune  
8:00p.m.  16  Highway to Heaven  
22  Movie · A Summer to Remember  
28  Fall Guy  
34  Tosca  

Creationism explained. 
•
7 p.m. -MandatoryMeeting, For Anyone In­terested In Serving As An Officer For Finance Club Next Year, 122 Hayes Healy. 

•7:30p.m.-Lecture, 
"What is Catholicism?" Rev. Richard McBrien, Catholicism and Morality, Catholocism and Social justice, CSC Classroom. 

•8 
p.m.-Concert, Gail Walton, Faculty Organ Recital, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by Music Department. 

•9:30 
p.m.-Rock-A-Like Contest, North Dining Hall, 53 Per Person, All Proceed Go To MS Campaign. 

•9 
p.m. -Finance Oub Fest, 1635 Turtle Creek West, S1 For Members, $2 For Non­members. 

•9 
p.m. -Senior Rejection Night, Senior Bar, Sponsored by Tau Beta Pi, $.75 Specials for Letters. 

•9 
-9:30 p.m. -Radio Show, "Campus Perspectives," Guest: Sarah Hamilton, Editor­in-ChiefofThe Observer. 

•11 
p.m. -Mass 4 Reflection, "What Has Lent Meant to You?" Fr. Dave Tyson, Morrissey Hall Chapel, Sponsored by Lyons & Morrissey Uturgy Commissions. 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Roast pork loin Whitefish Individual vegetable quiche 
Saint Mary's Turkey cutlet with parsley sauce Fillet offish parisienne Spanish omlet Eunice's six-foot hoagie 

9:00p.m.  16  Facts oflife  
28  Dynasty  
9:30p.m.  16  Sara  
!O:OOp.m.  16  St. Elsewhere  
22  CBS Reports: The Gift of Ufe  
28  Hotel  


S~orts 

3:30 against Lake Forest on Cartier Field. For more on the team's road trip, see Mike Sullivan's story below. 
lacrosse team plays itsfirstgame athome today at 
Lacrosse team gains experience on Eastern road trip over spring break 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

Nobody said that Spring Break '85 was going to be easy for the Notre Dame lacrosse team as it headed to Baltimore to take on four East Coast teams. And the trip was indeed as tough as expected as the defending Midwest Lacrosse Association champs struggled to a 1·3 record. 
The trip featured the best compe· tition the Irish should see this year as they took on Duke, Vermont, New Hampshire and Loyola ( Md. ). AI· though the results will not help the team's record, Notre Dame coach Rich O'Leary hopes that the tough opponents will be good preparation for the Ml.A schedule which begins today with a game against Lake For· est College at 3:30 p.m. on Cartier Field. 
"I'm worried because I now know how badly we can play, but I think the adjustments that we made over the last few games have made us a better team," says O'Leary, who has 
been leading the Irish since lacrosse became a varsity sport five years ago. "Ifwe keep improving, we shouldn't be an easy game for anyone and we could win them all." 
The Foresters should serve as a good yardstick to measure Notre Dame's improvement. Last year they gave the Irish a tough fight, taking an early lead and staying even through three quarters, before O'Leary's squad exploded for six unanswered goals to take an 11-5 victory. 
Both Notre Dame and Lake Forest find themselves in the same division of the MLA · the Great Lakes Lacrosse Association · which also in· eludes Ohio State, Michigan State, Ashland College, Wittenberg and Mt. Union. The main goal of each team, though, will be winning the Midwest championship since there is no MLA championship game. The league champion will be deter­mined by a selection committee of judges. 
"I'd rather not start out the Mid­western part of the season with a conference game," explains O'Leary, "but we've played some real good teams now. The teams we'll play the rest of the year aren't as good as Loyola or New Hampshire, but we still can't afford to let down." 
Loyola and New Hampshire, as well as Duke, showed the Irish that they are still well below the level of play of many of the Eastern teams as they repeatedly took advantage of Notre Dame's mistakes to move out to big leads. The Irish were able to handle Vermont, 8-6, to start out the trip, but dropped the last three by fairly lopsided scores · 18-4 (Duke), 13·7 (Loyola), and 12·3 (New Hampshire). 
Although the Irish played well for most of the Vermont game, the win over the Catamounts was not the highlight of the trip · the loss to 
see IRISH, page 9 
Finishes third in Florida tournament 
Irish golf team starts spring season 
By MARC RAMIREZ 
Sports Writer 

Normally the Notre Dame golf team's spring trip to Florida is used primarily as preparation for the spring season. But following a good fall session, Coach Noel O'Sullivan 
was convinced his players had the right mental attitude and prepara­tion going into last week's Florida In· ternational Tournament not only to take part, but also, as he put it, "to be competitive." 
lbe right stuff paid off as the Irish came away with a remarkable third­place finish in Miami, finishing be­hind host Florida International University and Boca Raton. 
"I was very pleased," says 
O'Sullivan. "Not just with the team's 
performance, but also with the 
players' preparation, sportsmanship 
and manner. 

"To go south and take part in a 
tournament where five Florida 
schools are participating and come 
out third is a fine accomplishment. 
But it doesn't mean we're all that 
powerful yet." 

The Irish finished with an overall score of 984, while FlU earned a score of 925 and Boca Raton 9T5. Yale came in fourth at 988, with Bis· cayne College and Salem State ran flfth and sixth with scores of 1001 and 1002, respectively. 
Team captain John O'Donovan led Notre Dame, posting a 242 score that was good enough for seventh place out of a field of 60. As well as being captain and No. 1 player ofthe golf team, O'Donovan also is captain and No. 1 skier for the Notre Dame ski team. "He's only the second player in my 13 years as golf coach that didn't have an 80 in the fall round of our schedule," O'Sullivan says of the Ada, Mich., resident. "That's superb · a sign of a highly 
skilled performer." 

Freshman Rich Connelly of Per­rysburg, Ohio, came in second for the Irish with a score of 246, which gave him 11th place overall. Con· nelly had only one fall score in the 80s · and an 80 at that. "Rich is the only freshman to make the first team and make it with a lot of thunder," says O'Sullivan. "He's an excellent player from tee to green. He missed conference honors by only one stroke this fall and that's some way for a freshman to make his mark." 
Finishing just behind Connelly was juniorJohn Anthony, with a final tally of 247 and 12th place overall. The Ft. Worth, Tex., native is a second-year member of the squad, and according to O'Sullivan, is get· ting his chance on the first team after a fine fall season. "John can score some consistent rounds with his outstanding putting stroke," O'Sullivan says. "His future is now." 
Lon Huffman, from Roseville, Calif., scored a 253 for Notre Dame. A third-year letterman, Huffman is expected to make a solid contribu­tion to the team this year. 
Finishing fifth for Notre Dame was sophomore Chris Bona, with a score of 254. "Chris' confidence is build­ing after a strong fall season," says O'Sullivan of the Western Springs, Ill., resident. "He has a great deal of potential." 
In sixth place for the Irish was 
junior Steve Fuhrer of Oakmont, Pa. 
see GOLF, page 8 
Wednesday, March 27, 1985 -page 12 
Brent, Billy and their use of cliches 

Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 
Hello again everybody! 
If you have now seen so much basketball that your eyes have Spalding imprinted on their corneas, if you constantly hum the opening song of CBS basketball telecasts, and if you know that the Ugabee Travel Agency is the "official travel agency of the 1985 NCAA basketball tournament," you have become a basketball junkie. You can appreciate the topic of this column. 
But even if you don't know a high post from a lamp post, a 2·3 zone from a tow-away zone, or Jim Bain and Patrick Ewing from Conrad Bain and J.R. Ewing, this may hold some interest for you. For if you have watched even one telecast ofthis NCAA tournament, you could be the next Brent Musberger or Billy Packer. All you have to do is remember a few cliches. 
These are the familiar utterances used more often than we would 
like to admit by sportswriters and sportscasters, even by alleged 
ones such as yours truly. They are convenient, time-worn crutches 
which take up time and space and say absolutely nothing. So if you 
think you want a job in the media, just remember a few of these: 
•"He's 
a player" . This would be fine if every time the camera showed somebody the announcer told us his occupation. For in­stance, you never hear "she's a cheerleader," "he's a tuba player," or "he's a welder." I can see he's wearing a uniform, so I assume he's a player. If he's not a player, then what is he? THAT would be telling me something. · 

•"He's 
some kind ofplayer"· Well, that's as obvious as the preced­ing one. Ofcourse he's some kind ofplayer, but what kind ofplayer is he? He could be a terrible player, and still deserve the title of"some kind ofplayer." Use any adjective in place of"some kind of' and you say something meaningful, and thus lose every right to be read or heard. 

•"He.c.,,e 
to play" -1 certainly hope he came to play, because ifhe didn't he's in the wrong place. What else did he have in mind in that get-up if he didn't come to play? Just once, I would like to see the camera get a shot of some walk-on who never plays and have the announcer say "He came to sit the bench. He has no intention of · playing." 

•"Cinderella 
Team" · If you hear the name Villanova used this weekend without this phrase following within the next 15 seconds, consider yourself fortunate. Somehow I can't picture a short, balding Italian man like Rollie Massimino wearing a glass slippe·r, going to a ball with a prince and talking to a winged creature. He looks more like the Keebler Elf than Cinderella. So, please don't call the Wildcats the "Cinderella Team." 

•"They 
need a basket" · 'lbank you, Dick Tracy. Of course, they need a basket. In fact, if a team is trailing, it's going to be kind of difficult to win unless it gets a few baskets. On the other hand, if a team is ahead, it doesn't really need a basket. It might want a basket to make things easier, but all it really needs to do is stop the op· ponent from getting a basket. So, on one hand this is stating the obvious and on the other hand, it's just wrong. 

•"There 
is no shot clock and there will be next year" · If you have watched one game in the tournament, you know this by now, so it doesn't need to be said again. If you haven't watched a game, you probably don't care that much, so the absence ofa shot clock doesn't make any difference to you. In either case, the fact that the Kukamonga Conference used a shot clock all year but doesn't havt. one here but will have one next year if they get to the NCAA tourna­ment doesn't matter. That doesn't mean it won't be said, though. 

•"He's 
deadly from there" ·This can only be said ofBernard Goetz on a subway. Bernard is definitely "deadly" from there. However, the fact that Chris Mullin can make a jump shot from the corner 90 percent of the time does not make him hazardous to your health. As far as science knows, a good jump shot is one of the few things that does not cause cancer, and thus it is not deadly. 

•"They've 
shown a lot of heart" · This is great if you have a team made up of William Schroeder, Barney Clark, and Murray Hayden and have it coached by Dr. William DeVries. These guys have shown a lot of heart in the past few years. Unless I'm misinformed, not too many people have. 


So you now have the basics to do your own broadcast this weekend. Turn down the sound, and pick which announcer you want to be. If you want to be Brent, drool over Georgetown, call everyone a key player, tell how wrong it is to malign the deities of John Thompson and Patrick Ewing and get a haircut. If you want to be Billy, explain why you wouldn't do any of these coaching manuevers, extol the virtues of ACC basketball despite the fact that no teams from that conference are in the Final Four and lose a lot of hair. 
On second thought, just turn down the sound. There's no sense making a fool out of yourself. 
Pick of the Week. .. Making plans to go out to the Burke Memorial Golf Course this weekend? Guess again. The Irish golf team holds domain over Burke this weekend with their only two home matches of the season. On Saturday, Notre Dame entertains Tri-State, while on Sunday the Xavier Musketeers pay a visit. 
Ofcourse, that doesn't mean you should stay away from Burke. Go on out and give some support to the Irish linksters. Maybe you can even talk coach Noel O'Sullivan into giving you a free tip or two. If your game is like mine, it couldn't hurt. 


