
Survivors-page 8 


Issue of parietals to be topic of student survey 
By MICHAEL]. CHMIEL large expenditure of energy. What StaffReporter we decide to do is come up with something that smells ofsimplicity," 
A survey of Notre Dame students he added. 
regarding the parietals issue was With the questionnaire, that "will 
originated at last night's Hall Presi­take two to three minutes to fill out," 
dents' Council meeting by Bruce Lohman said he hopes his commit­
Lohman, student government judi­tee will be able to discover whether 
cial board member. or not there is a concensus among 
The survey will be distributed to students. 
approximately 20 students in each "Further progress must be made 
dorm by the hall presidents, Lohman in a professional manner and taken 
said. to the proper bodies on this campus 
The questionnaire isshort and ob­where the right buttons could be 
jective in nature, he said By using a pushed," explained Lohman. "There 
concise format, Lohman said he has to be some sort oflarger body of 
hopes the questionnaire elicits a data, and that's what this is." 
good response in order to get a true The information from the ques­
feel for student opinions on the tionnaires will be assimilated and 
issue. taken to the proper channels, ac­
"There's been a lot of discussion cording to Lohman. Comments over the last couple of weeks over dealing with ideas that are not listed the issue of parietals," explained among the questions will also be Lohman. "Unfortunately, the welcomed, he said. response from the student body at After addressing the parietals large has been fairly minimal. 

Bishops urge synod to take stand on threat of nuclear war 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -Canadian bis­hops yesterday urged an interna­tional assembly of bishops to take a stand on the threat of nuclear war and Third World debt, calling the issues two of "the most urgent problems ofour time." 
U.S. bishops attending the two­week synod promptly supported the Canadian initiative. 
"The future of the world hangs precariously on these two issue$," Bishop Bernard Hubert ofSaintJean­Longueuil, Quebec, president ofthe Canadian Bishops Conference, said in a written statement submitted to the synod. 
The statement said the synod should issue a message that affirms "the determination of Christians to take part in building a better world by confronting two of the most ur­gent problems ofour time ..." 
Hubert, who made the proposal on behalfofmore than 160 Canadian bishops, later told The Associated Press in a telephone interview, "The synod should convey a word ofhope to the world, and we can do so by expressing our shared preoccupa­tion over these two issues." 
Bishop james Malone of Youngstown, Ohio, told the AP he agreed it was "appropriate for the synod of bishops to express its con­cern about these issues." 
Young said, "Both are matters of great importance to the bishops of the United States as expressed in their 1983 collective pastoral letter on peace and in the pastoral letter on economic justice now scheduled for completionin November 1986." 
The 1983 document condemned first-strike usage ofnuclear weapons and demanded a halt to the growth ofsuperpower arsenals. 
A draft of the 1986 pastoral letter says U.S. foreign assistance should be geared to meet basic human needs and promote social and economic development rather than security interests alone. 
Pope John Paul II convened the 165-member extraordinary. synod to assess the impact of the 1962-65 Second Vatican Council, which fas­hioned far-reaching reforms in liturgy, ecumenism, church govern­ment and seminary education. 
Hubert suggested that the bis­hops' concern on the two issues be reflected in a pastoral message that will be issued at the end ofthe synod on Sunday. 
The message, addressed to all Cat-holies, is being drafted by a panel of five bishops. 
The pope has repeatedly called on the world community to work out measures to alleviate the "crushing debt burden" on Third World countries. 
He also has condemned the 
nuclear arms race, often warning of 
the dangers of"a nuclear holocaust." 
Before the Geneva arms limitation talks resumed earlier this year, the pope called on the United States and the Soviet Union to renounce "egoistic and ideological interests" for the successoftheir negotiations. 


'Tis the season 
Christmas tree lights radiate throughout the Ad· ministration Building (upper left). DanielleKlein· richert (upper right) places an ornament on 
U.S. suspends General Dynamics 
Associated Press only to Pentagon contracts, but also decide whether or when the freeze 
to any other government work. should be lifted. 
. WASHINGTON General Company executives had no im­"The suspension does not affect Dynaroics Corp. yesterday lost its mediate comment on the decision, contracts already awarded to right to obtain any new government which was announced by the Navy General Dynamics, but these con­contracts, one day after the firm and in its role as executive agent for the tracts will not be renewed or ex­four former or current executives, Pentagon on all contractual matters tended during the suspension including NASA administratorjames involving General Dynamics. period," the Navy said. Beggs, were indicted on fraud The imposition of the freeze on charges. The suspension will prevent the new contracts comes at a crucial 
nation's third-largest defense con­point in General Dynamics' dealings 
The contract suspension, an­tractor from receiving any new Pen­with the Pentagon. The company 
nounced by the Defense Depart­tagon work for at least 30 days. The manufactures the Air Force's F-16 jet 
ment, is the second such action company will now have the right to fighter, and is facing a special com­
imposed on the nation's third­contest the sanction or propose cor­petition ordered by Congress in-
largest defense contractor this year. rective actions. After formal plead­
See FIRM, page 3 
The latest suspension applies not ings,, government officials will 
"Writing a letter is a relatively See HPC, page 4 


Shuttle Atlantis lands after historic mission 
pilot Bryan O'Connor guided 
their ship onto the concrete. 
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, Five thousand spectators were Calif. -Space shuttle Atlantis on hand to watch the returning landed on a concrete runway in a space travelers. California desert yesterday, While still in orbit on Monday, returning from a week in orbit Atlantis' astronauts said their test and a historic first test of con­assembly of a large framework in struction techniques that will orbit was an "exhilarating" ex­help shape an American space perience and a major step in station. learning how to build a per­
Atlantis, with its seven­manent orbiting space station. member crew, blazed through The astronauts, replying from the Earth's atmosphere in a long orbit to questions posed by jour­fiery glide from a 218 mile-high nalists at the Johnson Space orbit, crossed tl!e California Center, said they expected after coastline north of Los Angeles their return to Earth yesterday to and touched down under partly assist the engineers who even cloudyskies at Edwards Air Force now are beginning to design the Base. first U.S. space station. 
Mission Commander Brewster "It was one of the most ex-
Shaw put the spaceplane on the . hilerating experiences I have 
center of the runway and rolled ever had," said Sherwood Spring 
smoothly to a stop. The landing of the two spacewalks he made 
completed a voyage of 2.8 mil­with Jerry Ross. "It was a first ef­
lion miles that began Nov. 26 fort at trying to understand how 
with a launch in darkness from we'll probably construct a space 
the Kennedy Space Center in station." 
Florida. Ross said he and Spring will 
Normally, shuttles land on a spend time with space station dry lakebed at Edwards, but rain 
See SHUTTLE, page 3 
has soaked the area, so Shaw and 

The Observer Wednesday, December 4, 1985-page 2 

In Brief 
The Campus All-Nighter was attended by more than 500 students and raised almost $700 for the St. joseph County chapter ofSpecial Olympics, according to Sally Derengoski, assistant director of Non· Varsity Athletics. ·The Observer 
Student Body President Bill Healy and WVFI-AM Station Manager Reginald Daniel have been selected for inclusion in the 1985 edition of "Outstanding Young Men of America." Can· didates for the book are selected from nominations received from senators, congressmen, governors, mayors, state legislators, univer· sity and college presidents and deans as well as various civic groups, according to the group's board ofadvisors. ·The Observer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University presi· 
dent, received the St. Francis Xavier Medal Sunday from Xavier Uni· versity during its Universal Communion Sunday celebration. According to Charles Durrie, president of Xavier University, the medal is presented annually to an individual who represents the ideals of the missionary priest who founded the jesuit order with St. Ignatius Loyola in the 16th century. Recent recipients include Car· dinaijoseph Berdardi~ and Monsignorjohn Tracy Ellis. As partofthe celebration, Hesburgh was a concelebrant in a morning Mass and spoke briefly to an alumni group. · The Observer 
Of Interest 
Professor ofreligious studies Gregory Baum 
of St. Michael's College, University of Toronto, will give a lecture titled "Liturgy and justice" tomorrow night at 8 in Notre Dame's Memorial Library auditorium. Baum is author of 14 books including the recent "Ethics and Economics." The lecture is sponsored by Notre Dame's department oftheology as one ofits Micheal A. Mathis series. · The Observer 
Academic dishonesty will be the topic of discus· sion tonight at 7 in the Little Theatre of the Lafortune Student Center. Earl Baker, academic commissionerfor student government, has called a meeting of all hall academic commissioners to discuss the issue of cheating at Notre Dame and to distribute surveys to students concerning this topic. Students should receive a survey from their hall commissioners and are asked to return them to their commissioner before Dec. 11. ·The Observer 
Dr. James Muller, co-founder of ~nternational Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War which was recently awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, will speak in the Center for Social Concerns this afternoon at 3:1 5. Muller's address, "Science and the Global Community: the Nobel Peace Prize," is sponsored by the In· stitute for Peace Studies, the Center for Social Concerns and the Distinguished Alumni Series. The address is open to the public. · The 
Observer 
Toastmasters International wm hold a 
Christmas party tonight from 7 to 9 in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's. All Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Toastmaster members are welcome. · The Observer 
The plightofmidwestern farmworkers and what the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community can do about it will be the topics discussed tonight at the Federal Labor Organizing Committee . Notre Dame support group meeting at 7:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
The parletals issue will be the topic tonight on Campus Perspectives on WVFI·AM. join host johlt Deckers with his guest at 10 p.m. with questions and comments. ·The Observer 
The Spanish Club will offer its last get together ofthe year at the Center for Social Concerns at 7 tonight. All are invited. · 
The Observer 

Weather 
White nights may not only be in the movies. It will be cloudy today with a 20 per· cent chance of snow or mixed rain and snow developing in the afternoon or evening. High in the low 30s. A 40 percent chance oflight snow tonight. Low in the low to mid 20s. A30percent chance ofsnow showers tomorrow. High in the low 30s. -AP 


The ObseO{er_-=
Today's issue was produced by: Oeslgn Editor........................ Andi Scbnuck Features Copy Editor...... Gc:rtie Wimmer Design Assistant .................. K2thy Huston Features Layout......................... Carey Gels Tyf>es'tt~ ...................................... Pat Clark ND Day Editor........................ Diane Dutart Jennifer Lynn Bigou SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle News Editor...................... Mark Pankowski Typtsts ........... ; ............................ CoUeen Foy Copy Editor........................ Ann Kallc:rbach Mark Mclaughlin Sports Copy Editor................. Marry Bums A.tl Design ......................jeanne Grammens VIewpoint Copy Editor ....... Alice Groner jim Kramer VIewpoint Layout............ Mdlssa Warnke Photographer .......................... Paul Kramer 
lbr O.,_.,rvrr ( l 'SPS ~99 l·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.lbr O.,_.,~r is published by the students ofthe l'niversity of Notre l>amc and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for HO per year ( JlO per Kmestcr) by writing 1br Obeervn, P0. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 
·l6~~6. 1br ObK~r IS a member of 1br Aaoelatrd Prrae. All reproduction rights arc r~!lr""\'~ 
1970s were a dull time to grow up; decade's television shows prove it 
"Ttll the one day when the lady met thts fellow, 
And they knew that tt was much more than a bunch, 
That this group must somehowform a family; 
That's the way we all became the Brady Bunch." 
· Theme from "The Brady Bunch" 
Have you ever seen the television commercial for the 
record album that features theme songs from of old 
television programs? Ifyou haven't, keep an eye out for 
it. It's hilarious. 
It features a couple who would ordinarily be 
described as yuppies •· but since that term has outlived 
its usefulnt:ss they would have to be called post-yuppies 
·· listening to this record and acting like idiots as the 
announcer recites the titles ofold television programs 
and fragments of the theme songs play in the back· 
ground. 
The problem is, however, 
that most of the songs are 
from programs which most 
college students today 
would recognize only as 
syndicated programs which 
were rerun on obscure 
channels at odd times ·· 
shows like "Green Acres," 
'r 
"Dragnet," "The Un­
touchables" or "Batman." 
It is humorous to watch 
the grown adults in the com­
mercial jump around like 
little children and scream in 
glee as the familiar theme 
from "The Andy Griffith 
Show" is played. But the 
commercial emphasizes 
something that is kindl of 
depressing: 
llte 1970s were a very boring decade to grow up 
during. 
Ofcourse, this statement applies to more than theme 
songs of television programs. The same conclusion can 
be reached by examining the music ofthe 1970s. 
Each decade seems to have had its definitive musical 
culture. In the 1950s the birth of rock and roll and an 
increase in the intluence of near-deity cultural heroes, 
such as Elvis Presley, marked an identifiable musical 
scene. 
In the 1960s, immediately recognizable are the British invasion, the "mods," and the psychedelic move· ments ·· and, ofcourse, the Beatles who were integral in defining all three. 
nie dawn ofthe 1980s brought a transition from the violence ofpunkdom to lrhe ascetic techno-pop of new wave. Now, in the middle of the decade, a common middle ground seems to have been found, as evidenced by the rising popularity of Madonna, Prince and Duran 
.. 



AL BROTHERS 

A Religious Community of Men in the... 
HEALTH CARE MINISIKY 
Committed to Christ... 
Through a life of fraternal love, prayer and service to the sick, poor, dying and unwanted. 
• 
ADMINISTRATION • NURSING • CLERICAL • TECHNICAL 

• 
PASTORAL CARE • X-RAY • LABORATORY • ENGINEERING & MAINTENANCE • MECHANICAL WORK • PUBLIC RELA­TIONS • PHARMACY • COMMUNITY HEALTH, ETC. 


••••••••• WRITE FOR INFORMATION ••••••• 
Vocation Director, Alexian Brothers 600 Alexian Way, Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 
Name_______________________________ 
Address_________________________________ 
CitY-------State_____zfp,_____ 

..,..,,., Age Education Tel No 
29 

"A HEAliNG PRESENCE" n•••nnnLunn••nn•nnu•nnn•••nn•n••• HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CENTERS: 
Elk Grove Village, ILL.!Eiizabeth, N.)./St. Louis. Mo./San )o~e. Cai.!Signal Mt., Tenn./Milwaukee, Wise. Brothers working in the Missions, in the Phil1ppine<o. 
Dan 
McCullough 
News Editor 

Duran. The degree ofability and talent in these artists is irrelevent. Rather, they all can be readily identifiable as music of the 1 960s. 
In the 1970s, such an identification could not be found. Trends in music were fast and furious, and conse­quently without substance. First, the holdovers from the late 1960s, which included such artists as Led Zep­plin and Neal Young, put record albums out with the a sound suspiciously like that ofthe preceeding decade. 
These artists eventually gave way to a kind oi pure pop music that didn't do anybody any good, as defined \)v such groups as Paul McCartney and Wings· and Kiss. This gave birth to a rise in disco. Ha ha. Disco developed into a new popularity in country music. Then the punk music of England crossed the Atlantic and became toned-down in the form of approachable new wave. What a mess! 
This undefinability was not excusively confined to music. The same
.. 
phenomenon is apparent in other facets of popular culture ·· such as television programs. 
The 1960s gave us "The Ed Sullivan Show," "The Andy Griffith Show," and "The Dick Van Dyke Show." Creators back then had a problem with titles, I guess. 
The 1980s mean "Miami Vice." The 1970s? Can anyone name one program from the 1970s? W~ there television in the 1970s? 
Well, maybe "Saturday Night Live." But it is interest· ing that the only program that could possibly be iden­tified with the 1970s was centered on satire of American culture. 
Several factors can account for the confusion in popular culture of the 1970s that made the decade a boring time to grow up. Politically, the country was not very stable. The U.S. was just coming out of the bad dream ofVIetNam. Liberalism was thriving even under the squelching influence of conservatism, which was losing its credibility. The U.S. was one confused place. 
So when those of us who grew up during the 1970s come to be the ruling class and everything falls apart, don't blame us. We're all just victims of our environ­ment. 

The Observer Wednesday, December 4, 1985 -page 3 


Afghanistan accused of mass civllian killings 


As!loclated Press 
UNITED NATIONS-A special U.N. investigator introduced a report Monday accusing Afghanistan of mass killings of civilians and per­secution of political opponents. The Afghan ambassador called it "cheap lies and fabrications." 
Felix Ermacora of Austria, as­signed to report on Afghanistan by the U.N. commission on Human Rights, presented the conclusions, unusually strong by U.N. standards, to the General Assembly's social committee. 
Ermacora said he was convinced "that I have obtained quite an ac­curate picture of the situation of human rights in Afghanistan." 
He said the government, in trying to modernize the country, is meeting resistance from Islamic fun­damentalists and traditionalists. 
"The government has tried to overcome this with all available ofbuses in Alabama.
St. Francis Shoppe 

The commemoration, which was sponsored by the Minorities Concerns Commission of student 
is the place to shop 


for Christmas! 

government, kicked off Minority Affairs Week. Speakers at the event 
Discover a unique shop with handcrafted merchandise 

included Carlton West, president 
we are proud to present. 
Including: 
• 
Baskets 

• 
Clowns/Dolls 

• 
Navajo Rugs 

• 
Ebony & Teak Carvings 

• 
Nativity Sets 




~~~~ MBA program set for SMC juniors 
-~~~~~!-lours: 10am-5pm, Monday-Saturday/Phone 233-7467 
SpeciaJ to The Observer 

Saint Mal)·s juniors who have 
strong liberal arts backgrounds are 
being sought by the University of 
Chicago for its Early MBA Program, 
according to Gail Mandell, chairman 
ofthe humanistic studies program at 
Saint Mary's. 
"Saint Mary's, one of15liberal arts 
colleges nationwide chosen to par­
ticipate in this program, is the only 
Catholic and the only women's col­
lege to be selected," said Mandell. 
Last year a committee of four, chaired by Mandell, selected two juniors from Saint Mary's to par­ticipate in the Early MBA Program. The three-year-experimental program allows selected colleges from across the nation to choose two of their best students to take a maximum of three courses, tuition free during the summer before their senior year on the-campus of the Unl\t:rsity of ':hicago. 


Shuttle 
continuedfrom page 1 
designers "to assist them in under­standing what it means to build a space station and what is the best and most efficient way ofdoing it." 
Both men said the spacewalks ex­hausted them, but that they were not as tired after the second excur­sion Sunday as they were following Friday's spacewalk. 
commemorate her because she was the beginning, the spark." 
He added that he feared that America has returned to the indif­ference of the 1950s and that a "spark is needed to bring us out of complacency." 
West encouraged people to make a commitment to social change and become aware of the problems ofminorities today. 
"There are many avenues for change," he said. "Mrs. Parks showed us a quiet one. That's why we're quietly remembering her today. 
"It takes courage for you to go beyond signing a petition. Sometimes you have to stand quietly and sometimes you have to open your mouth and say someth­ing." 
After West's speach the crowd 
sang "lift Every Voice and Sing" 
and "We Shall Overcome." 
Beauchamp ended the ceremony with a prayer in memory of Parks' courage and defiance. 
Marsha Auls, minority concerns commisioner, said she was pleased 
Students earn credit toward a 
master's degree for each course 
taken and may be admitted to the 
MBA program at any time within 
three years of completing their un­
dergraduate degree. 
Maribeth Kehl aand Kristi Stathis 
participated in the program last 
year. Stathis, a communication and 
government major, and Kehl, a 
mathematics major, both agreed 
that this was a great opportunity for 
them. 
Stathis lived and worked at home while Kehl lived on campus. "Not only did the university give us a warm welcome," said Stathis. "They also kept in touch with us on a regular basis. I never felt alone." 
Stathis added that the program 
was intense and competitive but 
nonetheless a great experience. 
After graduation, Stathis said she 
plans to work and return to the Uni­
versity ofChicago as a part-time stu­
dent to finish her degree. 
Astronaut Mary Cleave said the crew tried to take pictures of Hal­ley's comet, but "I'm not sure we saw it ... It's really not that dis­tinctive." 
Mission commander Brewster Shaw said the crew took "a whole string" of pictures over Somalia and Ethiopia using a variety of cameras. Experts had asked for the pictures in hopes that they could find geologi­cal evidence of hidden water. The 

to convince the Newport News billion in contracts. It was ordered Shipbuilding and Drydock Co. to by Navy Secretary John Lehman in

Firm 
compete with General Dynamics for the wake of disclosures the com­
continuedfrom page 1 
Trident contracts. A navy source pany had submitted questionable volving the F-16 and the Northrop who demanded anonymity said yes­administrative and overhead claims Corp.'s F-20 fighter. That competi­terday the service will likely on defense contracts. tion is to begin shortly under the redouble those efforts given the St. Yesterday's suspension, which terms of the Pentagon's fiscal 1986 Louis-based company's latest legal had been strongly hinted earlier in budget. problems. the day by Defense Secretary Caspar 
General Dynamics is also the The last such freeze imposed on Weinberger in a television inter­country's sole producer of nuclear­General Dynamics lasted three view, followed the release of a powered Trident missile sub­months, from May 21 to Aug. 13, and seven-count indictment by a federal 
marines.. The Navy has been trying delayed the award of more than $1 grand jury in Los Angeles . 
with the turnout at the ceremony, noting that the crowd was not made up ofstrictly minorities. 
"The audience today was representative of our cross­cultural themes. It was sort of a rainbow coalition effort," said Auls, who said she hopes to or­ganize a similar but bigger minorities week next semester. 
West encouraged those present to attend the two other scheduled events during the week. The Social Justice Forum will sponsor a dis­cussion of landmark civil rights decisions in the Law Building tomorrow night at 7 and an open discussion will be held in the LaFortune Student Center Fridayat 7p.m. 
Auls said both events are open to everyone. West said he hoped that any perceptions of minority problems would be aired at the in­formal discussion on Friday. 
"Faculty and clergy will be present and we would like stu­dents with experience and a lack of experience (with minority '1roblems) to come," said West. 
In addition to the three business 
courses, each student took a 
management seminar. 
Saint Mary's administrators have 
encouraged all juniors with liberal 
arts backgrounds to apply, even 
those who might not have con­
sidered a business career, Mandell 
said. Applications are available from 
Mandell, 220 Madeleva, and must be 
returned by Feb. 28. 
A selection committee will 
review the applications, select the 
two best candidates and notify the 
university by April 15, she said. 
Because of the demanding nature 
of the University of Chicago, the 
committee is looking for students 
who show leadership ability and 
have strong academic records, Man­
dell said. 
Those chosen will be expected to 
attend the university from the endof 
June until the end of August before 
their senior year of college, she 
added. 
countries have been hit by drought and continuing famine. 
Atlantis, which landed yesterday, completed a seven-day mission that included the launching of three satellites as well as the spacewalks. 
While still in orbit, a 45-minute news conference ensued in which television pictures showed the· seven-member crew wearing white T-shirts enblazoned with a stripe of the colors from the flag of Mexico. 
means: the persecution of op­ponents, the disregard of human rights for all those unwilling to fol­low government policy," and dis­crimination against those not adhering to the ruling Communist Party, Ermacora said. 
He said in trying to crush the Af­ghan resistance, the government, supported by "foreign troops," used indiscriminate bombardment, poisons, taking ofhostages and treat­ing them brutally, and dispropor­tionate retaliation with deadly 

Executive Assistant to the President Father Wil-commemorate Rosa Parks' act to arnf•mP liam Beauchamp offered a prayer yesterday to equality. Story below. 
Spark f-or equality commemorated 
consequences for the civilian population. 
Ermacora did not refer by name to the 115,000 Soviet troops support­ing the Afghan government of Babrak Karma!. In his report he said the presence of foreign troops "is one of the principle reasons for the current human rights situation in Af­ghanistan." 
The 

ByALEX PELTZER 
StaffReporter 
Approximately 30 Notre Dame students gathered in front of the snow-covered steps of the Ad­ministration Building yesterday af­ternoon to quietly remember the act of a tired black seamstress on Dec. 3, 1955. 
The seamstress was Rosa Parks and her act was to deny giving up her seat to a young white man who demanded it. This denial ul­timately led to the desegregation 
• 
Sterling Jewelry •Ornaments •Glassware ·Brass 

• 
Pottery 



of the Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP, and Executive .Assistant to the President of the University Fat­her William Beauchamp. 
· West spoke of the meaning of the gathering and the importance of Parks' act. 
"What Mrs. Parks did was not 
momentus," said West. "But we 

The Observer Wednesday, December 4, 1985-page 4 
50,000 South Africans attend peaceful funeral 

Associated Press 

MAMELODI, South Africa-Their arms raised in clenched-fist salutes, up to 50,000 mourners jammed a soccer stadium yesterday for the funeral of 12 blacks killed in one of the bloodiest days in 1 5 months of rioting. 
In Pretoria, President P.W. Botha announced that he was lifting the 19-week-old state of emergency in eight of38 districts. He declared in a statement, "The revolutionary climate is fast losing momentum." 
The five-hour funeral and burial service in Pretoria's Mamelodi township began and ended peace­
AP l'hoto 

fully. After talks with organizers, police had agreed to keep out of sight at Mamelodi and to lift riot
derson during a protestparadeMonday. More than 
funeral restrictions, including a limit
150 people were arrested and security around the 
of 50 mourners.

plant was ttghterzed in an effort to prevent any 
Diplomats from 11 countries, in­cluding U.S. Embassy Political Coun­selor Tim Carney, attended. 
Winnie Mandela, wife of jailed 
t violence. 
f 'Star Wars' compromise unlikely black leader Nelson Mandela, defied 
WASHINGTON -U.S. and Soviet 
positions on "Star Wars" have har­
dened in the aftermath of the 
Geneva summit, American officials 
say, making it more difficult to find a 
compromise that would clear the 
way for a comprehensive nuclear 
arms control agreement. 
Moscow is understood to have promised further concessions in its latest arms control proposal ­moving closer to the U.S. position -if the administration will drop its Star Wars research program officially known as the Strategic Defense In­itiative. 
Space-based weapons, along with strategic and intermediate-range missiles, are the subjects of the U.S.­Soviet arms control talks scheduled to resume in Geneva onJan. 16. 

A member of the U.S. summit delegation said President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbac­hev engaged in "a dialogue of the deaf' on Star Wars in Geneva, with 
HPC 
continued from page I 

issue, Lohman also relayed thoughts from Academic Commissioner Earl Baker who Is in the process ofinves­tigating the academic honesty issue with the student government and administration. Baker plans to hold a meeting tonight with the academic commissioners of the dorms, at which time questionnaires dealing 
with academic honesty will be dis­tributed, Lohman said. 
Such a survey of vital student in­put will provide a committee made up of administrators and students a better perspective on the subject, Lohman added. 
The honesty committee is "going 

An Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­plications for the following position: 
• Viewpoint Copy Editor 
This paid position requires editing View­point commentaries one afternoon per week. Letters of application should be sub­mitted to Phil Wolf in the Observer office by S p.m. Wednesday, Dec. 11. 
For more Information, Cllll The Observerat 239-5313 

neither conceding any validity to 
the other's point ofview. 

Reagan stressed SOl's potential as 
a defensive shield against nuclear at­
tacks, several informed officials said, 
while Gorbachev saw it as a ploy to 
develop a first-strike capability for 
the United States -to attack without 
fear ofcounter-attack. 

When Reagan proposed his open 
laboratories strategy for each nation 
to send scientists to keep track ofthe 
other's Star Wars research, Gorbac­
hev countered with his own open 
laboratories offer for each side to 
make sure there wasn't any research 
at all. 

The result was that there was no 
real discussion of what Star Wars is 
about, and no progress made toward 
the American goal of drawing Mos­
cow into a dicussion of how to mix 
offensive and defensive weapons 
systems, according to participants. 
Several officials said the U.S. posi­tion had definitely hardened, in part because of the So'Viet attitude at the summit. 
Officials suggested that before the 
to the students to get response," Lohman said. "If this isn't responded to well·enough, there's going to be a lot of questions as to whether the student body is actually concerned enough to get involved in the issues." 
In other business, several upcom­ing events were announced. The women's caucus will meet tomor­row in the Pasquerilla East chapel lounge at 7 p.m. 
A preliminary announcement was made for a fund-raising dance for the Multiple Sclerosis Foundation to be held in early February. Questions regarding the lighting of the student parking lots and the paying for ice time for interhall hockey were also addressed and are being studied for the next meeting. 
her banning order to be at the summit Reagan was signaling stadium. To a standing ovation and flexibility by emphasizing that the freedom chants, she told the throng, United States would insist on . its "The blood of our heros will be right to conduct Star War research, avenged ... We are here today to tell but without mentioning testing or you that the day when we shall lead development. you to freedom is not far away." 
Gorbachev had in the past sug­Mandela's eight-year-old banning 
gested the Soviets might not oppose order bars her from attending gat­
laboratory research. Between those herings and restricts her to the-small 
two positions, some officials said, town ofBrandfort. 
there was room for a compromise. The flag of the outlawed African 
"They tried their level best to 
National Congress guerrilla move­break down our position without of­
ment was draped over the dozen fering anything in return, and they coffins in Pitjie Stadium, including didn't get away with it," said Paul those of Magdalene Mlombo, a 69­Nitze, senior arms control adviser to year-old woman shot to death by 
Reagan. police, and Trocia Ndlovu, a two­
A senior State Departmem official month-old inhaler oftear gas. said, "The Soviets made a big Nelson Mandela was head of the mistake in the way they dealt with armed wing of the African National 
SOl. It's a very personal thing with Congress when he was sentenced to the president. And they've got to life in prison in 1964 for plotting deal with it that way. sabotage to overthrow white rule. "They can't just say it's a product Residents said police opened fire of the military-industrial complex, without provocation on a vast that it's expensive and will cost a tril­crowd of at least 50,000 protesters lion dollars, and therefore you who gathered Nov. 21 outside shouldn't do it," added the official, 
Mamelodi's town hall to protest who insisted on anonymity. funeral restrictions, rent hikes and 
Don't Count on Getting A Bundle This Holiday 
I 
(un!ess you talk to Apple.) 
A 

Let's face it. The only bundle that will fit in your stocking is a bundle of sticks. Or lumps of coal. Who needs that? All you get are thorns in your fingers and dirty hands. 
Instead, ask for a Holiday Bundle from Apple® --a Macintosh TM computer and Imagewriter'rM II Printer. MacintoshTM is helping people everywhere work smarter, quicker and more creatively. What's more, you can be creating with Macintosh TM and getting a head start on next term before the turkey even gets to the table. 
Contact your campus MacintoshTM location for more information about the Holiday Bundles available until December 31. Ask for a MacintoshTM, and leave the sticks and coal in the fireplace where they belong. Extra batteries not included ... or needed. 
Contact: General Micro For More Information ... LaFortune Student Center 239-7477 
~ 1985 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple and tM Apple logo are trademarks ofApple Computer.Inc. Macintosh is a trademark ofMd111oslt Laboratory and is used with its express permission. 
use ofsoldiers on riot patrols. Police 
said they had been forced to battle 
"particularly violent mobs" in the 
township throughout that day. At 
the time, police said 13 people were 
killed, not counting the infant who 
died later. 

White opposition legislators 
joined black activists in demanding a 
full government inquiry. 

Police manned roadblocks at 
township entrances but allowed free 
access for television crews and jour­
nalists. Mamelodi is outside the 
emergency zone and not covered by 
one-month-old rules limiting 
coverage of unrest. 

Carney said it was the first time a 
U.S. diplomat attended a political funeral in South Africa. He said the American presence yesterday was partly because some embassy employees live in Mamelodi and "we are here to show sympathy" for people there who suffered loss. Another reason, he said, "is to express our support for the prin­ciple of peaceful protest." 
As mourners entered, funeral mar­shals handed them lapel rosettes in the African National Congress' colors -green, gold and black. 
Mandela flouted her banning or­der to be with her husband in Cape Town during his recent recovery from prostate gland surgery and has addressed news conferences, but 
she has not before addressed public gatherings. 
Her contention that black freedom is near contrasted with Botha's assessment in a statement yesterday that the unrest is ebbing and that radicals opposed to peace­ful change "are being defeated." 
Approximately 900 people, nearly all of them black, have died in I 5 months of anti-apartheid unrest that has included many attacks on blacks seen as collaborators with the white rulers. Apartheid is the racial segregation system by which five million whites govern South Africa's 24 million voteless blacks. 
Botha said he revoked emergency rules in eight districts because nor­mal life had been restored. 
The Observer Wednesday, December 4, 1985 -page 5 



Nation recovers from winter blast; 55 deaths blamed on snowstorms 
Auoclated Press  The Midwest storm was blamed  towed in Minneapolis for violating  
for at least 26 deaths since Friday,  snow-emergency parking restric­ 
The upper Midwest dug out yes­ and more than a week of stormy  tions, adding up to at least S78,000  
terday from the season's first big  weather in the Northwest con­ in fines and charges for the of­ 
snowstorm, with Minneapolis  tributed to 29 deaths.  fenders. And Fire ChiefTom Dickin­ 
towing hundreds of cars from snow  Major and secondary roads  son urged people to "adopt a fire  
routes, and cold air made its  throughout Minnesota were in  hydrant" and dig out the city's 6,000  
seasonal migration into the Sout­ generally good condition yesterday  hydrants.  
heast while warm, wet air melted  with scattered slippery spots, after  Most schools reopened yesterday  
snow in the Northwest.  the storm dumped I,: feet ofsnow,  in the Midwest, where Minnesota  
Off California, the Coast Guard  state transportation officials said.  alone had more than 500 schools,  
rescued crews ofboats caught in 20­ Minnesota spent an estimated  colleges and universities closed  
foot waves that made a Coast Guard  $1.8 million to plow snow from  Monday.  
surfboat turn over.  Friday through Monday, said Curtis  The storm's wind blew two  
The list ofrecord lows that started  Christie, maintenance engineerwith  freighters from their moorings off  
in October got longer yesterday as  the state Department of Transporta­ Sturgeon Bay, Wis., forced closure of  
International Falls, Minn., chipped  tion. The state ran approximately  a canal on the St. Lawrence Seaway  
four degrees off its former mark with  750 snowplows with 1,500 workers.  and pushed water into low-lying  
a low of 27 degrees below zero, and  communities, with 12-foot waves on  
Tower in northeastern Minnesota  Plowing Minneapolis streets was  eastern Lake Erie.  
hit 33 below. While relatively warm  expected to cost $500,000, which  Western Maryland got its first  
rain melted Seattle's snow and ice,  officials said left approximately  snowfall of the year, state police  
Yakima, Wash., posted a record low  500,000 in the budget for the rest of  reported, and temperatures  
of I below zero, and other parts of  December.  dropped below freezing in parts of  
the Northwest got wet snow.  At least I,200 vehicles had been  Tennessee.  

Truck driver among 22. heroes cited for courageous deeds. 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -A truck driver who was one of 22 people honored Monday for heroism says he let a fel­low trucker who los~ his brakes on a treacherous mountain road ram into his truck because the man "didn't have much of a chance" otherwise. 
"I figured we could both jump if we had ro," LouisJoseph Gallant said Monday. "At the time, itwas the only thing I could think of doing. We didn't have much time to decide." 
Gallant's bravery made him one of 1 3 Americans and nine Canadians honored Monday by the Carnegie Hero Fund Commission. 
Six ofthe heroes died during their heroic deeds, and one award was granted anonymously to an American who wanted no publicity, said commission Assistant Secretary Walter Rutkowski. 
Each hero or hero's survivor received 52,500 and the Carnegie Medal. The Pittsburgh-based com­mission has cited 6,955 people since industrialist Andrew Carnegie founded it in 1904 to honor heroism in the United States and Canada. 
Gallant, 29, of Wellington, Prince Edward Island, was inching down Nova Scotia's Kelly Mountain onJan. 14, 1984, well ahead of fellow trucker john Waite, 28. Both are 

drivers for Midland Transport Ltd. of 
Moncton, New Brunswick. 
With his citizens band radio, 
Waite called for Gallant's help when 
he suddenly lost his brakes. 
"If I didn't let him run into the back of me, he would have had to jump and he would have been killed. So, I just told him to run into the back ofmy trailer," Gallant said. 
Gallant increased his speed from approximately 20 mph to ap­proximately 50 mph on the twisting downgrade before Waite's rig slammed into his trailer. Gallant then hit the brakes hard. 
"We slid down the mountain with my brakes locked, about a half mile altogether," Gallant said. "We finally came to a stop only about I,OOO feet in front of a horseshoer, I80-degree turn we normally take at about about I5." 
Gallant was uninjured and his trailer was barely scratched. Waite suffered a minor injury and his cab sustained approximately 56,000 in damage, Gallant said. 
Other winners identified by the commission included: 
•Jean Louis Bertrand, 32, a store owner from Louis Creek, British Columbia who was burned while saving a 28-year-old man from a bur­ning pickup truck in Kamploops, British Columbia, on Aug. 26, 1984. 
•
David Caines, 20, a fisherman from Glace Bay, Nova Scotia, who saved a 54-year-old man from drowning on May 10, I983. 

•James 
Calvarese, 49, an in­surance salesman from Alameda, Calif., who rescued a 25-year-old deputy sheriff from an armed assault in a courtroom in Oakland, Calif., on Feb. 7. 

•Robert 
Conner, 66, a retired ex­ecutive from St. Petersburg, Fla., who tried to revive a 72-year-old man who suffered a heart attack on a tennis court on Sept. 25, 1984. The man died. 



Survey finds some cheat on taxes; most say extramarital sex is wrong 
Associated Press likely than their elders to tell lies or eOn tax returns, 24 percent of 
steal. And they also are more likely Americans say they have at some 
WASHINGTON -One in four to have no moral qualms about sex time been "less than completely Americans cheats on his tax returns, before marriage. honest." but most say it's wrong to •:heat on a However, people between the •On premarital sex, 61 percent say husband or wife, a new poll ind­ages of I8 and 29 also are more it isn't wrong, a near reversal of1969 icates. likely than slightly older Americans Gallup Poll figures that found 68 
· Marriage vows apparently make to condemn sexual affairs outside percent saying it is. In both cases, all the difference, since a clear marriage, and they are the most young people were more likely to majority says there's nothing likely ofall age groups to see a newly say sex before marriage is all right. 
morally wrong with premarital sex. "serious and growing problem" in •Extramarital sex is always or al­
The poll, conducted by the Roper white collar crime and business et­most always wrong, according to 88 Organization for this week's issue of hics. percent. The percentages for all age 
U.S. News & World Report, points to Asked to rate professions, poll groups are 85 percent or more. laxness on some moral or ethical respondents said only the religious matters but also shows that clergy deserved more than 50 per­•In business, 64 percent see white Americans continue to hold clear cent "very high" or "high" ratings collar crime as a serious, growing moral views on other issues. for honesty and ethical standards. problem representing "a real 
For those who see moral failings Car salesmen were at the bottom decline in business ethical be­in the younger generation, the poll with 6 percent. havior." The highest age-group total does show young peopk as more Some key findings include: is 64 percent for the 18-to-29 group. 
NT ACT LENSES 
TENDED WEAR ONTACT LENSES 
'"""m"'" 30-day extended wear llsnh1uical contact lenses 
ral Tint contact lenses that not only 
$79 • 9 8 

your vision, they make your eyes and exciting. Available in blue, ltur·our~is.e. emerald Jreen and brown. 
Price does not include an eye examination which is required at the time of purchase. 
Visa-MasterCard-Medicaid-Insurance Programs Welcome Open 6 Days A Week With Evening Hours 
SOUTH BEND: 1111 E IRELAND RD...291400 
MISHAWAKA: 506 W McKINLEY 

Also Offices in Indianapolis, Shelbyville, Kokomo, Lafayette, Anderson, T"''" H:>ute Ricflmond. New Castle, Franklin, Muncie. Marion 



PIZZERIA AND PUB 
130 U.S. 31 North 1 Mile North of Campus 
277-4519 FREE DELIVERY 
Monday  Wednesday  
14", 1 item  16",1 item  
$5.95  $7.95  
.Coli before 11  Coli before 11  


Sunday 
18",1 item 
$9.95 

1717 E Sou\'1 Bend Ave. Call before 9:30 South Bend. Indiana 46637 
272-4135 


~i~~~_()__i_ll___t_______________
. we-dn-es-da-y,_oe-ce-mb-er-4,_19-85--p-ag-e6 
Danger of accidental nuclear war is increasing 
The American and Soviet people in­cinerated in a holocaust caused by computer error? It is on the verge ofhappening. Because of the total devastation that would be caused by a nuclear war, there is a tendency to believe that there are powerful incentives working against the conscious initiation of such a holocaust. According to a growing number of expert observers, however, the nuclear arms race is now reaching a point where the factor of human deliberation will no longer play an important role in this process. As this process becomes more automated, the danger of an unintended, ac­cidental nuclear war is increasing dramati­cally. 
Bill Mewes and Gary Houser 
guest column 
In the 1950s it would have taken 12 hours 
to deliver a nuclear warhead by plane. With 
nuclear weapons stationed ncar the target, 
this time has been reduced to 8 to 10 minutes, 
and accuracy has been improved from miles 
to a 100 feet. As a result of increasing speed 
and accuracy, each side's forces are becoming 
vulnerable to a lightening-quick first strike at­
tack. This has moved each side to rely more 
upon computerized early warning systems. 

Seeming inexplicable, inconsistent and un­predictable human "goofs" account for 50 to 70 percent of all failures of major weapons and space vehicles, according to Uoyd Dumas writing in the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists. The condlrions under which many weapons personnel work are monotonous, isolated and extremely stressful. Working under such con­ditions reduces the reliability and quality of performance and increases withdrawal and psychological instability. 
Statistics released by the U.S. Air Force covering 1977 to 1983 show that over 17,000 emergency action conferences were held be­cause offalse or unknown readings in our war­ning system. More serious false alarms have increased every year, going from 43 in 1977 to 255 in 1983. Such information is no longer released to the public. One such incident oc­curred on June 3, 1980, when a $.46 com­puter chip malfunctioned in the NORAD warning system and signalled that missiles from Soviet submarines in the Atlantic were attacking the United States. This alarm caused 76 B-52 bomber crews to board their planes 
and start their engines, 240 missile launch ot: ficers to go on alert in their bunkers, and lasted 3 minutes and 12 se·conds before the malfunction was located. 
The military term for an accident that oc­curs during the handling of nuclear weapons is "broken arrow." The Defense Department has released information confirming the oc­curence of 32 such broken arrows in the period from 1950 to 1980. One example oc­curred on Jan. 24, 1961. Two 24-megaton atomic bombs separated from the wing of a B-52 bomber as it was flying over Goldsboro, North Carolina. One bomb's parachute came open and it glided down to a soft landing. The other bomb fell freely and hit the ground with full impact. It was discoverc:d later that five of the bomb's six safety devicc:s had failed. 
Dr. Brian Crissey, formc:r Pentagon com­puter modeler, recently completed a prominent study, "Launching Policies and the Threat of Unintentional Nuclear War." He simulates several attack scenarios to determine how much time would be available before £he perceived "use them or lose them" point would be reached. He then applies this information to data on both current false alarm rates and the historical frequency ofsu­perpower crises. He assumes that in a crisis both sides will go into higher states of alert. His computer studies show that in these cir­cumst~lnces, an accidental launch can be ex­pected no later than 1990. That is within 5 
years. 
It is only quite recently that the subject of accidental nuclear war has started to become the focus ofserious study. All studies that have been completed so far are in agreement that the danger of accidental nuclear war is in­creasing. 

A U.S./Soviet nuclear weapons freeze would prevent further testing, production and deployment, thus reducing fears as well as even greater dependence upon computers controlling nuclear response. The sooner we stop the nuclear arms race, the safer we become. "Star Wars" would be a step forward in computerization and in the arms race, thus making our world much more dangerous. 
As interest in and concern about this issue grow, more studies are being initiated and more informational resources are becoming available. A newsletter has been started to keep interested people updated. 
Brother Bill Mewes, a Notre Dame graduate student, co-authored this with Gary Houser. 

Living abroad forces opening of eyes to world 
OK. How many ofyou really know anything about the Grcenpeace affair? Or about the recent riots in London? Are there any changes 

Annemarle Reilly guest column 
in South Africa? What Is the deal in Afghanis­tan? Better yet, where Is Afghanistan? 
I know. There are assignments to do, papers 
Viewpoint Policy 
• 
All letters to the editor submitted to The Observer become the property of The Observer. Letters must be typed, no longer than 250 words and signed by the author. The Observer reserves the right to edit all material received. 

• 
Commentaries in The Observer do not necessarily reflect the opinions of The Observer. 

• 
Guest columns may not respond directly to previous commentaries ap­pearing in The Observer and may not exceed 700 words. 



Doonesbury 
' ' 
to write and tests to study for. But stop and 
think for a moment. What is really happening 
around you? I am not talking about the im­
mediate environs of the beautiful island we 
call Notre Dame. I am talking about the world. 
I am not condemning anyone for not taking an active interest in the affairs of the world. I am afraid I too would probably let myself get wrapped up in the pressures of academic life at Notre Dame, ifI were tht:re. But I'm not. 
Sure I miss Notre Dame. I miss my friends, dorm life, the football games and yes, even the food. But I also feel I am extremely lucky to have been placed in this alien environment. From here I have been forced to open my eyes to the world around me. How much more alive, how much more real the world becomes when you actually see, meet and speak with the inhabitants of those countries that always seemed so far away. 
The world takes on a whole new aspect. It gets sharper and you can see the details. The characters in the stories on the news take on names and personalities. I have spoken with people from Germany, England, Ireland, France and Japan. They too have opinions on world events. They have to because they are usually directly involved. I have found that Europeans are generally more interested in and knowledgable of world events than the average American. Of course, we have a.n excuse, but I find it to be a lame one. 
The countries of Europe are dependant on each other. They are so closely related, geographically and economically, that they must k•eep on top of the activities that occur within their neighbors' borders because many will inevitably affect them. America, on the ot­her hand, could just as well be an island. Sure, we have had our problems with Cuba and Mexico. And the Soviet Union is always giving us headaches. But how many of us watch the news each night? Or read a paper? We feel no immediate threats to our nation and therefore feel no need to know what is happening el­sewhere. 
But last summer, West Germany had problems with major spy infiltration by East Germany. The admission of Spain and Por­tugal into the European Economic Com­munity in January could cause serious problems for the wine producers of France and Italy. Meanwhile, at Notre Dame, the foot· ball team is looking better, but what are we going to do about Faust? Somehow the em­phasis I see put on sports and academics seems almost absurd in light ofworld events. 
I am not saying to drop your books and call Reagan and discuss the results of the Geneva Summit. We are attending Notre Dame to learn about our chosen fields. But I do· not think !<earning should come from books and labs only. One learns so much more about life and relationships by discussing the news, by paying attention to the world around you. Where else but on a college campus are we going to be able to discuss the things that con­cern us with so many people our own age? 
What I am suggesting is read a paper and get mad. Give a name to one ofthose unidentified 
Garry Trudeau 

guerilla sources in Afghanistan (located bet­ween the Soviet Union and India). Imagine what his (or her) daily life is like; what his friends and family are going through. The news is no longer just news. It becomes what it is -reality. 
Unfortunately, sometimes reading about the world that way tends to make one feel a bit overwhelmed. What on earth can I do about human rights' violations in Indonesia? Honestly, probably not a whole lot. There is no way one person can topple a crooked regime or feed all the starving. But we are not totally helpless. There are sources of power we have access to -organizations such as Am· nesty International and UNICEF and yes, even our government. We live in a democracy, remember? We can write to those senators and representatives that we elected. It is their job to find out what their constituents have on their minds. We can be informed of world events and at least have compassion and un­derstanding for what our brothers and sisters are going through. 
I consider myself lucky to have been born an American. We have more opportunities and abundances than anywhere else in the world. I have come to appreciate the general ease of life in America that I had before taken for granted. But even more importantly, I have opened my mind and eyes to the rest of humanity. 
Annemarle Reilly ts a sophomore at Notre Dame, currently studying in Angers, France. 
ESPfi:CIAU.YMY
aANl-fON&Y, Nt7TA 
A 5I3C/?&T.
IJKJRI) OFMYtu!N/J­NOTM.N 
UNClE/}()/<&! 
17"5 50I<TOF
Y/35,5/1<. 

$23MIWON!
FIIU 70 ANYON&UN-YCUI< 'N­
IT'5 A S£3Cf?&T, 
A <;{!()(tT,

IMU5TBe
'!OUCAN 
UNfJ/3R5TAN/J~
t Till 711/NI< 7HI5 a&IJUJ<&, 
'5/R.'

{)REAMING ..
COUNTa./ 
, 7H/?fXGH, tJI:'AY? 511<? 
A 513CRET.1 

0 
I
I M&. 

0
~ I I 
Quote of the day 

"Christmas is coming, the geese are getting fat, Please put a penny in the old man's hat; If you haven't got a penny, a ha'penny will do, Ifyou haven't got a ha'penny, God bless you!" 
Beggar's Rhyme 

.,1

made my train. 
Hickey did not divest 
I would like to thank sincerely Saint Mary's Security for the pride they have in their job. 
for the sake of 'study'
They extend special care and help to all the 

I 
students at Saint Mary's. I tip my hat to the DearEditor: 
1 

outstanding security here at Saint Mary's. The current president of Saint Mary's has 
1 

Melissa Murphy finally done something I agree with. I for one Regina Hall am happy to support him down the line on 
l 

this one. Even if no one else does. 
o· 



P.O. Box Q 
contained the majority of frat houses. If we dents, to study? No, I say your president
No mention of the high 
could organize one street or a group ofhouses d•eserves a great deal ofcredit on this one. He together and form official fraternities and and other brave men like him make it possible 
scorer made in article 
sororities, we too could form our own for students like you to study and learn about DearEditor: "fraternity row." apartheid. 
We are writing in response to Marty Burns' The most positive element fraternities Nona Griffiths article regarding the women's basketball portray is the unity among its members. Brot­South Bend, IN team's blue and gold scrimmage which ap­hers and sisters offrats and sororities share an peared in the Nov. 18 Observer. unparalleled support for one another. Be­
We do not feel that the reporter was ob­cause of the.size of many ofthe dorms here at Problems of Church jective in his coverage ofthe scrimmage. As as Notre Dame, this unique support and unity is objective journalist, Burns should have missing. Dorms such as Grace and Flanner are not because of council presented all the facts ofthe game. He failed to good because they house a great number of note the high.~corer of the scrimmage, Kathy students, and therefore more studc:nts can be 
DearEditor: 
Brommeland. ' . admitted to the University. But an alternative Regarding Rich Coglianese's article 
We are not trying to take anything away for upperclassmen in the form of fraternities 
"Church must eliminate its Vatican II from the other members of the team; they all and sororities should be offered. 
relorms," I would like to make the followingdid a fine job. This fact, however, should have Fraternities and sororities would add a new 
remarks. 
been mentioned, as Kathy was a key player in positive look to Notre Dame. And of course, 
The article conveys the message that the the game. Not only was she the high scorer, students would know where to go for fun on 
reforms were promoted by a body "alien and but she also contributed several rebounds and weekends. 
hostile" to the Church, when in reality the op­assists. Tim Burke 
posite is true. Bishops from all over the world, The South Bend Tribune's article ran a DtllonHall 
assembled under the guidance of the Holypicture of Kathy, along with one of Gary Voce 
Spirit, and sought to bring the Church to an who was the high scorer in the men's blue and 
Alumna urges change 
awareness of herself and of her mission. As gold scrimmage, and mentioned her name 
stated in the opening lines of the Dogmaticseveral times. 
in the parietals penalty 
Constitution on the Church, the intention was It seems ironic that South Bend's paper 
"to set forth, as clearly as possible, and in the would do a better job reporting the facts of DearEditor: tradition laid down by earlier Councils, her the scrimmage than our own school paper As an alumna and the sibling of a student, I own nature and universal mission ... for the which claims to represent the school. 
was appalled to learn of the action taken by benefit ofthe faithful and ofthe whole world." 
Marilyn Laurenzo 

the University against two students who were I, as well as you, miss the beauty of the 
julie Thornbury 

technically in violation ofparietals. ceremonies, the angelical sounds of the 
Donna Berg 

I believe that any private institution has the Gregorian chant and the rich aroma of in­
Susan Shelton 

right to set whatever rules and regulations it cense. Nevertheless, the decrease in Church 
Farley Hall 

chooses. In fact, as a former member of com­attendance lies not in the elimination of this munalliving situations, I strongly favor having tradition and of the Latin Mass, as you argue. some times when living areas are off limits to Rather, many Church goers felt their security members ofthe opposite sex. Neither ofthese threatened by the call to overcome thethanked for their care beliefs, however, allies me with the University divorce between faith and practice. Through on this action. Surely the University can en­the liturgical reforms, the Fathers ofthe Coun­Dear Editor: force its regulations -even ones it determines cils aimed to integrate the worship of God 
In this time of world hunger, poverty and to be as critical as parietals -without taking with deeds and commitment to our brothers. conflict, I would like to extend some hope by the extreme step of expelling students. The Many Christians were not ready for this. commending Saint Mary's Security for going community service recommended by the Together with its eschatological dimen­above and beyond the call of duty. On Tues­judiciary board seemed far more appropriate. sion, the Community called Church has a mis­day, Nov. 26, at 8 p.m., I was on my way to the Finally, as a lawyer trained by Notre Dame, I sion to be performed in the world, through 
train station when my friend's car broke am troubled by the procedure which allowed service to God's creatures. The Church is the 
down. Just as we were getting out of the car, two students to be expelled even though the means for salvation, and not an end in itself. two Saint Mary's security guards pulled up and judiciary board recommended community like the Apostle James, I have become very offered us their assistance. They popped the service. 
Saint Mary's Security 
suspicious of any love of God that is not hood and tried to spot the problem. By 8:15, I urge the University to reconsider its posi­expressed in the care for others as well. To they told us that the car was not going to make tion before it is too late for the students expect hope, as you do, that the Synod may it to the train station. So, one of the security directly involved and, equally important, for reverse Vatican II is to wish the reverse of the guards told me to get into his car and he the University. message of Christ. 
Stanley M uscbettIbarra

would get me to the station on time. He, by Kathryn Kelly the way, did not even know where it was 
Washington, D.C. Notre Dame graduate student 
located. At 8:30, we arrived at the station and I 

Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan 
News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1versity of News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino administration of either institution. The news ia reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sporta Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Sible. Unsigned editonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy tanes. leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through leners, is encouraged. Copy Chiel .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
Points about Vatican II held no factual basis 
DearEditor: 
After three months at Notre Dame, I have finally been compelled to reply to the closed­minded ignorance and sexism of Rich Coglianese's article ofNov. 25. 
In the article to which I am referring, 
Coglianese told how fuolish the reforms of 
Vatican II really are. He spoke ofthe traditions 
that this council had destroyed and expressed 
, , 
., 
, 
-, 

1 
1 

,, 
hope that Pope John Paul II's "extraordinary synod" would "reverse the dangerous momentum." 
Are you even old enough to remember a Latin Mass, Coglianese? Then how do you know itwas "beautiful Church tradition"? You proposed that people will go to Mass if they want to, regardless ofthe language. So, saying Mass in the vernacular cannot decrease atten­dance and only makes the Mass more relevant to the participants. 
You made another point that has no factual basis. You must have looked for a long time to find the part of Vatican II that denied papal authority, because it is not there. The same is true of female presence in the priesthood. These are individual cases which were never advocated byVatican II. And, while we are on the sexist rampage, why do we not relegate 1 women to the second-class citizenship of I
,

bibilical times, too? Finally, your ignorance shines brightly when you say that the pre­1
,

Vatican II Church is Christ's Church and even though we do not understand it, we cannot 1 
1

change it. If you recall, two of the Church's 
1

greatest theologians argued the opposite. 
1

Thomas Acquinas and Augustine both argued convincingly that no beliefcan be contrary to 
l 

reason; thus, everything must be satisfied in the intellect as well as in the heart. Without change, society would become 
l,

stagnant. In the 1860s, changing the slavery tradition was worth a Civil War to some 1
,

people. Or, ifthat is not close enough, decades 
1

of tradition ended in 1972 when women were 
1

accepted here at Notre Dame. I have not .., heard any complaints on either issue. 
It is people like yourself that help promote the image of Catholics as closed-minded and antediluvian. Do us and yourself a favor by coming down off your high horse to join the 
~ 

rest ofGod's people. 
Dan]anick ~ 
.,

MorrisseyHall 
I 
,j , 1 
I
FJf.IFIERS 

• 
1
:{ 
1 
' 
,
, 

ND dormitories missing unity of Greek system 
Dear Editor: 
After journeying to Penn State, I have found one thing that Notre Dame is desperately mis­sing: fraternities and sororities. 
When most people imagine fraternity and sorority life, they think of the Delta House, Mandy Pepperidge, and 1.2 GPAs. I have found, however, that frats and sororities are nothing of this sort. Fraternities and sororities would bring to our University many elements upperclassmen are currently seeking. Frats and sororities give its members their own sense offreedom, unity and independence. 
Fraternities and sororities could be set up similarly to the way off-campus housing is. At Penn State, one street called "Fraternity Row" 
He has decided not to take any ofhis money out of South Africa. Well, really, it is not his money. It belongs to the school. But that makes no difference to him. And that is a sign ofdedication. 
One reason he gave for not taking any ofhis money out of South Africa was that Saint Mary's is an educational institution and not a political institution. And I for one agree with this. Your school is very educational. For ex­ample, your school has seminars on South Africa. Maybe there would not be such semi­nars ifthe president takes money out ofSouth Africa. Students should be studying things rat­her than trying to change them. 
Think of it this way: if your school, and ot­hers like it, and other people, and companies, and banks, and so forth, all took their money out ofSouth Africa, apartheid might disappear. But then what would there be for you, the stu­
• 

Wednesday, December 4, 1985 -page 7 
Operations Board 
Business Manager...... . ............ Dav1d Stephenllch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan Systems Manager....... .. Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Accent 
r 
Mexico City Survivors Insights on the disaster 
' 
STEPHANIE IVERSON 
insignificant. What has really ef­
guestfeatures writer 

fected me has been the faith and god-oriented aspect ofthis whole
r "E arthquake: A shaking or trem­bling ofthe earth that accom­ordeal. It has made me value
r 
f 
panies moutain building or other everything that I have in this world crustal movements..." and question as to why I have so All ofus are well aware ofthis much and why others have so little. definition ofan earthquake. Uke Material wealth becomes increas­
you, I have always known what an ingly trivial the more I realize how earthquake is and have been well much the people of this city have 
aware ofits effects, but somehow, I lost. I also ask, "Why would God never fully realized or felt the allow such a tragedy to occur?" But profound destruction and devasta­this Is not a question that I can even tion that may result from the power attempt to answer. I can only try to 
ofan earthquake, until it happened. remember that our God is not a Ofcourse, I have always sym­malevolent God. Even within this pathized with and mourned for terrible destruction and loss oflife, victims ofearthquakes but the I can see some good. It is incredible 
recent earthquakes of Mexico made to see how the Mexican people a greater impression on my life than have united to support and aid their anything that I could ever have fellow Mexicans. I can only hope 
heard from the news, because I wa!> 
that this united effort continues 

actually there. Moreoever, in a even when the last bit of rubble has wider scope, I'm sure that these been cleared away. events will effect the rest ofmy life. This is only a very short and They have already effected me in somewhat disorganized discourse 
r r 
more ways than I probably realize. I about how I feel and about how I r even hate to call these earthquakes see the earthquake and its effects. In "events". That word does not seem trying to illucidate my subjective
r 
t to encompass the total significance view ofthe earthquake, I hope you r ofwhat these earthquakes really understand a little better the r widespread and varied effects that 
~ 
mean. r I myselfhave not been physically an earthquake of this or any mag­effected other than losing nitude can produce. Although this electricity, telephone services, and is a devastating occurance, it will 
, running water for ·long periods of continue to be a valuable ex-­time. Compared to the great losses perience from which I should be ofso many inhabitants ofthe city, able to draw many things which
',-my so-called losses are relatively will help me throughout life.
r 
r 
r r "We only represent
' 
ourselves." 
"From where?" They only distin· 
JEFFWOODEL 

guish us as being from ND because
guestfeatures writer 

W 
we get a weekly allowance and they do not. So, in the end, we only e are the students from Notre represent ourselves. And we Dame whom Dr. Isabel are...we are having fun. Charles sent down to Mexico City Our classes are oriented to give first to represent the United States, us the greatest opportunity to meet 
r r and second to represent Notre and encounter first hand that which I Dame. To begin with, let it be is Mexico. In other words, we are r known that no matter how we act given ample time to travel. And, 
here in Mexico City, the Mexican being the University students that
'r view of the Americans, or as they we are, we take advantage ofevery call us, the North Americans, will opportunity we can. Mexico is a not be changed by us students. This truly beautiful country, once you
r is the viewpoint ofa majority of the leave the capital. lffor no other r Mexican people: We are all rich and reason than to see a little more of I stupid; all North American women the world, I would encourage a trip 
will give it to all Mexican men; and to Mexico. As a student, the vantage we all love to be stared at. Second, point Is changed, the reasons are none ofthe other American stu­even more numerous, and I would dents here even care that we are even go so far as to say that the 
~ from Notre Dame. Some even ask, rewards are greater. 
r 
r r ND students enjoy the pyramids ofTeotihuacan in Mexico. From left to right, they are: Stephanie Iverson, Chris Bowler, John Omernik, Karen Logsdon, Jeff Woode, Megan Kearns. John Raven, Mary-Zoe Conroy, Jackie Schwartz and Paul Oeschger, who is also the photographer. 
The unforgettable earthquake 
without running water for the past porary shelter and medical care. KAREN LOGSDON, month, causing the students Incon­The University was also used as one STEPHANIE IVERSON, veniences such as having to go to ofmany centers ofdonations and PAUL OESCHGER friends' houses to shower, or tlush distribution offood, clothing, and 
guestfeatures writers the toilet. Other students imagine medicine. As reliefefforts began, we that they feel non-existent joined the Mexican students earthquakes. Telephone service has delivering and collecting materials 
A 
lthough It has been more than been erratic since the quake. There to aid those injured and homeless. one month since the earthquake are still days when we cannot call Although we were enthusiastic to ofSeptember 19, a day does not go within Mexico City. When the help, we found little that we were by that we, the Notre Dame stu­phones are working, there are no able to do, due to the great number dents ofthe Mexico City Foreign international operators for collect of volunteers. The display ofcon­Studies Program, and the Mexican calls, and direct calls to the States cern shown by the Mexican people people, have not heard the word take a great deal oftime to connect. during this tragedy was overwhelm-' "earthquake", seen its effects, or Immediately following the lng! been affected by it in some way. We earthquake we may not have had It is unfortunate that we were have not been as drastically affected electricity, running water, or here during this disaster. However, as those city residents who lost telephone services, but there were we: have learned through the ex­their homes and families, but each many more important things to perience. We were incon­of us In our own way has felt Its think about. venienced, but Mexico was greatly impact. Classes at the Universidad affected. Nonethless, neither we 
Two houses, in which four Notre Iberoamericana were cancelled for nor Mexico will forget the 
Building destroyed by the earthquake ofSeptember 19, taken by Paul Oeschger Dame Students live, have been five days in order to provide tern-earthquake ofSeptember 19, l9B5. ofthe ND mexico City Foreign Studies Program. 
Wednesday, December 4, 1985-page 8-9 
Rock around the world. Hard Rock, that is. 
W 
CAROLINE GD..LESPIE McDonalds. Nothing will ever top the atmo­because I like its shock value. The London Saturday night. Maybe it's more exciting features writer sphere, the people and the a...ambience of shirt was too trendy." then," Seifert said. the Hard Rock in Amsterdam." Heidi Bowman, a junior at Saint Mary's, "The atmosphere is more ofa restaurant Does Zang own a shirt? agreed that London's Cafe is more ofa tourist than ofa bar. There was loud music playing· atch out paisley, move over Calvin, "Ofcourse. You've got to take the Cafe place. a lot ofrock-n-roll nostalgia. It just seemed Hard Rock Cafe shirts are taking over. with you wherever you go." Does Bowman own a shirt? like a bunch ofyuppies sitting around So now everybody has them. Yes, it's the Junior Todd Harding has been to both eating." new fad. Cafes in London and Amsterdam. "No, but I bought one for my brother-in­Does Seifert have a shirt? But why are there so many ofthem? "The Hard Rock in Amsterdam has a more law." "Yes. I bought one because I wanted a shirt Where do these T-shirts and sweat shirts Has he ever been there? that said San Francisco." 
laid back atmosphere,'' Harding said. 
which have invaded the Notre Dame and "No, but I'm sure he'd like to go there,'' Maybe that's why so many other people 
Saint Mary's campuses come from? "It (the Cafe in Amsterdam) isn't as rowdy. Bowman said. bought Hard Rock Cafe shirts. 
The answer is London, New York, San It's more ofa European student bar. There So, ifthe Cafe in London is exciting, and Maybe everyone suddenly got the urge to 
Francisco and even Amsterdam. are a lot ofAmericans in both Cafes but the the Cafe in Amsterdam is psychedelic, what have a shirt advertising the name ofa city. 
Hard Rock Cafes must be popular places. Americans in the Amsterdam Cafe are more are the Cafes like in America? Soon, people will have the chance to wear a 
Just what does a Hard Rock Cafe shirt look subdued as compared to the boisterous, Kimberly Seifert, a junior at Saint Mary's, Chicago Hard Rock Cafe shirt, as the chain 
like? obviously American patrons in the London described the San Francisco Cafe as con­moves into the Windy City. 
The shirts from London, New York and San Cafe." servative. All I know is that I'm guilty. I have a sweat 
Francisco all look the same. they have a Does Harding own a shirt? "I was there on a Monday night and I don't shirt from the London Hard Rock. And I've 
yellow circle with the name 'Hard Rock Cafe' "Yes. I bought the one from Amsterdam know what the Cafe is like on a Friday or never been there. 
written across them and the name of the city 
underneath. 
But I'm sure you've seen one. 
Trish Col bourn, a junior at Saint Mary's, went to the cafe in London. 
"I was there on New Year's Eve. There was a mix of people from all over Europe ­everyone from the London punks to the American students wearing their penny loafers. 
"I remember that there wasn't a bit ofwall space. The walls were plastered with electric guitars and the music career history ofevery rock-n-roll artist England ever had." 
Does Colbourn have a shirt from London's Cafe? 
"No.They didn't take Visa." 
The similar shirts from London, New York and San Francisco suggest that the Cafes are part ofa chain. Amsterdam's Cafe apparently is not part of this chain. 
Junior Brian Peters described his shirt. 
"It's the only real Hard Rock shirt.lt's 
philosophy, 'Come high...get higher,' says it 
all,'' Peters said. 
"Being one of the many students who have a shirt without ever having set foot in one of the Cafes, I look at the Amsterdam Cafe as some place I'd really like to visit." 
Junior Xavier Zang did get the chance to visit the Cafe in Amsterdam. 
"In fact, I spent my birthday in the Hard Rock and it was quite a rewarding ex­perience," he said." 
"After several pleasant hours spent watch­ing videos, I feasted at the local psychedelic 
Alternate coach candidates: could have been 

ANDYSAAL 
features writer 
T 
he anxious eyes ofthe world were once 
again focused on Notre Dame. Touching 
every alumni, subway alumni, and sports fan, 
a rare iitrain of Hoosier mania swept the 
nation. 
What single event could have had such an 
dramatic impact on the world media · the 
Geneva Summit? Apartheid? Another hostage 
crisis? The USC cheerleaders? No, Notre 
Dame has chosen a new head football coach. 
The best part ofall ofthe excitement was 
ofcourse the speculation before the decision 
was made. Rumors about who the new coach 
would be spread like an epidemic. 
The Athletic Department wouldn't talk, so the over-eager sports world ran away with any name they heard from anyone... "I just heard from the guy next door whose mother is the secretary to the guy who just installed the carpet in Don Shula's new house in South Bend..." Or "I just sawJohn Madden wearing a Notre Dame tie while he was walking in the University Park Mall..." After many predic­tions and much analysis by every armchair sportscaster, sportswriter, and quarterback in the nation, Notre Dame chose veteran coach Lou Holtz to replace to succeed Gerry Faust. 
But what about those candidates who were rejected for the job? While recently burrow­ing for food in the trash bins behind the ACC I discovered a super secret file ofprospectiv~ coaches. I attempted to sell my discovery to The Midnight National Inquiring Globe, but they said that it was real and refused to print it. So now I present this secret document to you, the wonderful Observer audience. 
DOUBLE SECRET MEMO 
Dear Gene, 

Regarding those new coach candidates, we might have some problems ifwe hire any of them. I'm sure that Lou Holtz, Dick Vermeil, and Terry Donahue are excellent coaches, but this time we have to get someone who is universally popular to both the alumni and the students. I hear that ClayJunior High School has an incredible coach... Sorry, just kidding. Anyhow, I went ahead and screened about fifty candidates for the job. 
At first thought, I hoped that Woody Hayes could be lured out ofretirement. But, then I remembered th·at Notre Dame could not tolerate a coach who assaulted the visiting team members. Former olympic coach Bobby Knight also has the popularity to take the job. But he would probably rip out the bleachers and throw them at the referees. 
We could hire libya's Khadafy, then we 
could literally blow away our opponents. I 
also thought that Bha~an Rajneesh might 
make a good coach. Imagine the contribu­
tions that he could persuade the alumni to 
donate. Neither man, however, is catholic. 
Besides, it would be a pain to get them 
through immigration. 
Our ratilngs would skyrocket ifwe hired a 
professional wrestler like Hulk Hogan, The 
Iron Sheik, or Rowdy Roddy Piper. But then, 
I'm not sure ifbody-slammingour opponents 
would win games. 
We also offered the coaching position to 
Dick Addis, Bobby Rivers, Lee Iacocca, Lech 
Walesa, PopeJohn-Paul ll, Pee Wee Herman 
Bill the Cat, and Opus. But they all gracious!~ 
turned down the offer when they heard that 
Emil Hoffman had also been offered the job. 
On the basis ofoverall popularity, we asked Phil Collins to coach at Notre Dame. He also refused the bid, but he did offer to produce the marching band's next album, as long as he c:ould play all the drums. But ifwe want universal popularity among the sports fans ofthe nation, all we have to do is hire any USC cheerleader. 
So after much consideration, I present the two best choices to replace Gerry Faust : 
1 David Letterman -Think ofthe popularity among the students! He could insult the visiting teams with snappy lines while boosting our ratings. Paul Schaffer could come with him and take over as director ofthe marching band... We'd be unstoppable! 
2 The lite Beer All Stars-With all ofthose guys, we could change coaches every week. This rotation offamous ex-jocks would be certain to please everyone. Imagine Billy Martin throwing a tantrum on the sidelines. 
L.C. Greenwood could intimidate the referees by crushing beer cans with the palm ofhis hand. On the lighter side, some weeks we could have Rodney Dangerfield or Yakov Smirnoffcoach. They could drop one-liners while the student body chants "Less Filling ­Tastes Great." EvenJohn Madden could be slipped into the rotation. We could give him a colossal CBS chalkboard and let him ex­plain his plays to the home side. The variety and color of the lite Beer All Stars make them the optimal choice to replace Gerry Faust. 
Sin,ceJ·ely Yours, 

Epilogue: 
Obseroer News Brief, Dec. 13, 1985 
Notre Dame administrators discovered today that, due to a clerical error, alumnus Phil Donahue rather than UCLA coachTerry Donahue was hired as the new head football coach. Sensing a boost in his ratings, Phil Donahue has refused to void the fifteen year contract. At his first football press con­
ference, Donahue chose to cover the issues ofwomen priests, school censorship, and 'swinging couples. When a reporter from Sports Hlustrated questioned Donahue on his choice ofstarting quarterback, he was shouted down and pummeled by the middle· aged, housewife audience. 
-

The Observer Wednesday, December 4, 1985-page 10 
' . 
I 
l 
Sports Briefs 

Interhall football teams which have not yet 
returned equipment can still do so tomorrow from 6:30p.m.· 8:30 at Gate 9 of the Stadium. · The Observer 
Stepan Center needs student monitors to work Tues­day, Thursday, and Saturday evenings. Applications should be taken to the Student Activites Office on the first floor of La fortune by the end ofthe week. •Tbe Observer 
Pitcher Ed Whitson. whose mediocre season was punctuated by a fight with Manager Billy Martin, has asked to be traded from the New York Yankees. Yankees owner George Steinbrenner said Monday that Whitson's agent, Tom Reich, con­veyed the pitcher's desires, adding, "I'll do what I can to accomodate him. I don't know that there's any interest." Whitson signed a five­year, S4.4 milion free-agent contract with the Yankees last season. According to the New York Times, the contract includes a provision that allows him to demand a trade. Whitson was 10-8last season with a 4.88 earned run average. ·AP 
Texas Longhorn track coaches, stan 
Huntsman and Terry Crawford are finalists for the men's and women's head coaching positions for the 1988 United States Olym· pic team, and could find out this week whether they will get the prestigious jobs. "This can be a very political thing," said Huntsman, a veteran of international competition. "But I'm an eternal optimist who believes in the American system." Two coaches from the same school vying for jobs In the same Olympic sport is unique. ·AP 
David McWilliams, the defensive mastermind for the University of Texas, signed a five-year contract Monday to become the new head football coach at Texas Tech University. He promised "we're going to talk bowls and championships here every year." Texas Tech hasn't had a winning season since 1978, and the 43-year~ old McWilliams replaces jerry Moore, who was fired Nov. 19 after five years with the Red Raiders. · AP 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. · The Observer 
jay Vincent (left) of tbe Dallas Mavericks and Mitch Kupchak of the Los Angeles Lakers battle it out in a game earlier this season. The Mavericks 
CORRIGAN: OK, Dan. Uh. well. Lou. I guess 
Wheel 
you're the only one to spin the wheel this time. It looks like you're
continued/rom page 16 
our winner. time I spun that wheel for you, and I HOLTZ: I can honestly tell you just think I'd rather sit back and this is one ofthe happiest days of my watch now. life. 

Holtz 
continuedfrompage 16 
New York to be inducted in the Col­lege Football Hall of Fame: Tuesday night. 
Devine predicted that Holtz may be shocked when he finds "there's not nearly as much emphasis on football, internally, as you think there is." 
Recalling his experience at coach, Devine said Holtz will "Get his players later in the day than at any other school in the country. He'll get less practice time. Kids will go to a lab class rather than practice. 
"But they'll play on Saturday. They'll compete." Devine said Holtz soon may 
CORRIGAN: We're just glad to have you, Lou. So why don't you get· ready to spin the wheel. But, remem­ber, there is a loss space on the wheel. If you hit it, you lose the game but not your contract, because once you sign an agreement, it's yours to keep. 
wonder, "My gosh, is this Notre Dame where football is so impor· tant?" 
Devine, who led the Fighting Irish to the National Championship in 1977, said Holtz also will find less pressure from alumni than he may think. 
"The alumni does not dictate at Notre Dame, though the university may let them think they do." 
Tht• Oh.<ert•a :\otrt· llamt· otfiu·. lot atec.J on tht· tlurd floor ol l.dl·ortunc ~tuc.Jt•nt C .t•ntt·r. dlll"[lt' da"1lkc.J aJn·rt"lll!( lmm 1) d m unlll I p Ill ..\1ontld\ throu!(h Fndd\ T'ht• t Jhs•-rr·••r ~ami \Ian·, otfin·. lontt·d on tht· rhm.f floor of lla!(!(dr <.ollt·!(e <t·ntt-r. dttt·ph tla"lfit·J, from I! ~0 p m until ~ p m. \1on· da\· thou!(h I ntla\ I kadhnt· lor nt·xt dd\ tld"llil-J, ;, ~ p m All tla'"fit·c.J, mu't ht· prt·paid. nth..r 111 pt·r-on or In mdil <hdr!(t' ;, I 0 t'l'nt' lll'r fiH· t·hard<
Classifieds 
,,." erda' 

NOTICES TYPING CALL CHillS :1344117 EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 .................................. 8U.,NEU UPIIEU,INC. WO<dpf-ng and typing 272-8827 TYPtNO 2n..o41 Filii! PtCKUP I DI!LJVI!IIY PIIO.TYPI! • Ov• 15 yn. aap. ~11111 In a1udenl_,..,_, .._ ~ ~ cl•,_,__ m­IIU3. LOST/FOUND ......... ........................... .  STOLEN BLACK WALLET: There Ia not· hlng of value leh in ~ aince I cancelled al lhe plutic and there-no money. Save aome Hmbfance of ~ncy and uve me further h_,. by jual returning it. And if you •e caught ateafing anything e1ae at lhe new pool you can expect no mercy. Leave it at loet and found Of if anyone has found a bfacf< wallet • piMM call me ot drop it oH. STEVE 2459 117 Pangborn 'fia the •.-on for loaing thinga ... THERE ARE TWO THINGS I HAVE LOST RECEI'I'rLY THAT ARE CIIUCIAL FOR MY SURVIVAl ON THIS CAMPUS AT THIS TIME OF YEAR: 1. AN ND CIII!DIT UNION AUTO.TI!LLI!II MACHINE CAIID. You know you can'f get money out of my account becauae you don't have the aecret ~K:CMa no. I do, and I need lhat card! 2. AN LL8EAN Qt.OVE, LEFT HAND. 11'1 navy on lhe back. dirty grey on the front. light blue hning. Take pity on my freeZing left handiiF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO PAULA MIRANOA.(I'M IN THE DIRECTORY.) THANKS SO MUCH!!!II LOST: Someone accidently picked up my long, llln (tweed). wool coat from lhe coat room at the Lyona-Faney-Aiumni F!lffMI.  Nice umi-lurniahed houaeln good neigh· borhood '"'3. 25&-3684. I HDROOfll HOIIE.NEXT HIIIEITEII.WALKINO DISTANCE TO CAIIPUS.m-aoe one male roommate needed at N.D. Apia .. Only $1 07/month. For more info. call Curt at 232-7547 or Shirley at N.D. Apta. Male houaerroate(a) needed to share ex­p..­2nd· 1emeater. rent: $90­100/monlh plua food & utiNtiea location: 711 Rex Sl. Call Mike or Kevin at 233· 5715 3 BORM APT. AVAILABLE. MILE FROM NO. CALL233-7631. WANTED SEEKING FEMAlE ROOMMATE AT  CFORSALE MOOG SYNTHESIZER, exc. cond., $650/ollfer. x3566. rovorA···cei:icA···75'.···FiuNs···veiiv GOOD SOME RUST, $400 OR BEST OFFER. CALL IGNACIO 2n-0803. FOR SALE: Golf C1uba: Tourney Cuatom !rona 3-p.w.. the 98511 Hogan und wedge. All atiH a/latta with victory grips Alao V.I.P. wooda by Nicldaua 1 ,3,4.Selling to belt oHer. call Mike 272· 3971 FOR SALE: Cycfea Gilllne lightweight(231b.) touring bike. 12apeed. good IN training, triathlonl. llnd rlldng. 1 and 1 /2 yeara old,lharp call mike at 272· 3971 L TICKETS 72 WANTS TO SEE YOU THIS SUN­ Need a ride to and lrom Ch1cago? Ridea to and from Chicago. Fly cheaper lhan lhe airlif181! Calf Pfanemaater Setvicea Inc. 312-3n-5730 FOR SAlE NAO 6040 CASSETTE OECK-EXC CONO CALL 288· 8529(1201 DIAMOND) Communill Rag From Hell number 2 i1 coming your way aoon!! EXCISE COPSifll D.C. X·IIIAS 8US Sign-upa Mon. 12/9 2nd Floor LaFortune. 7-8pm $68 Rd. Trip ?'a calf Kevin Viroetek af 1062 THE SRI DE IS BACK YOU'RE INVITED TO THE OFF CAMPUS & AUGUSTA HAll WEOOINGLESS RECEPTION THURSDAY, OEC.5 9pm-2pm SAINT MARY'S CLUBHOUSE 21 ID REQUIRED Tickets on ule Mon· Thurs at SMC Chriatmaa Bazaar and SeniOf Bar Wade THANK YOU ST. JUDE.  You've ...n them. you've heard about them. now you can get lham! HOOP HYSTI!IIIA T·aHIII'n lor ~n Center Short Of long aleev... Calf 2078 or 2089 lot delivery. REGINA HALL MONTHLY MOVIE SERIES CONTINUES. POIIKY'S POIIKY'S POIIKY'S Tonight at 8 and 10 in Regma Hal fot only one dollar THERESE, AWESOME. AWESOME' COOL AS HEU! SINCERELY. YOUR DOMER (PHIL DONAHUE) To the chick wilh the white Corv11r-11'1 your big 21 II, ablolutely not! Lei'I do a ~tile hooaie hootin' & get alittte nuta!1We love ya! ·Annie, Ab, & Kelly Ate you from Michigan and North Quecl? Were you out throwing 1now at 1 a.m. Monday? Remember the guy miNing hia left eye? Buay Saturday night? Mark (1373)  
FOUND: A-<=-!> on lhe 11""'--k In front of lhe Noire Dame Poet Office. May be a-Imed in Room B-19 Fltzpa1rtck Of by  If you noticed you got lhe wrong one, piMM <:aft Mo: X3023. X2999, or X299e.  N.D. APTS. 5112/mo. PLEASE CALL LIZ 288-8110  DAY!! Two Beara-Co111 tklll. for ule $60 fOf lhe pair (No warm cfolhea included). Cellffl-2839  Flying nonatop to LA, San Frandoco. or  Thank you St. Jude  
<*ling 239-6381.  LOST:  CALCULATOII  IN  IILACK  WANTED: An apartment IOf two guya IOf  Sacramento?  Looking  to  tranaport  2  
LOST • BURGUNDY GIRL'S EYE GLASSES BETWEEN THE GROTTO BUS STOP AND FL.ANNER. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL THERESAAT2&4-4128.  POUCH AT NOIITH DINING HALL MONDAY, DEC.2.1F FOUND, PLIEME CALL :112:1.1 NEED IT FOil FINALa. FOUND: one WATCH in Bndgeta on the  apring aermlaler. Wil !like either a two­peraon Of • four-p..., place. Prefer C.mpua Vi-but will !like other. Call Mike at 334:!.  [PERSONALS  doge. NO HANDLING NECESSARY' BONUS$$Cafl1·656-4565after8:30pm THE POPE IS 21 TODAYII GIRLS OF NO AND SMC GIVE THIS MACHO LEADER  OUT TO LUNCH? help fJ ND.../volu..-. workl"' In PuM1o lllco 3 Fill. DEC e, Cemw lor loclal Con­- 
Friday befO<elhe LSU goome. Cal1023 to  OF CATHOLIC MORALITY A CALL AND  
SOMEHOW I ENDED UP WITH YOUR  claim lt.  Whon  we look  back on  our days,  TELL HIM WHAT IS WRONG WITH CAT·  
KEYS! The only prolllem ia lhal I don'!  RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED TO U OF  they've p-ed In a flaah.  Time daean·t  HOLIC TEACHINGS  OR JUST WISH  To our favorite rel'ndeer:  
knoW who you we. If you lcellrack of your keya ala party 1n the 832 building of Notre Dame Apta. and if you wanllhem back.  FOUND SAINT MARY'S RING-CALL PASQUAlE AT THE COMMONS TO IDENTIFY.  Ill. LEAVE 12/6: CALL 2309 SEEKING a nde to ANN ARBOR Thia  -·and nobody'& got long 10 Mve! SOMETHING brldgea #me -What? What? What?  HIM A HAPPY BIRTHDAY! CALL THE VATICAN AT 11731  PRANCER Happy 21at &;rthdeyllllll Love,  
coni8CI Mary'Beth at288·55n. L()aT: IILUI! ND 800K 11M IN lOUTH  LOST: IF YOU WERE AT AlUMNI'S FORMAl NOV 23, YOU MAY HAVE MY  Weekend Fri.6-Sun.8!Will penMaiBiH 2155  Share  ex·  ·Richard Bach. Thallrtdge Acroea For.v•  HUNGRY? CaH YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours: Wed-Thurs  One and the Bonuo,pfuathe Option.  
DININO HALL ON THUIIS., 11·21 AT LUNCH. IT HAS fNtnAUIIIW. PUAal! CALL IMKI! »4--1017 PUAR.  COAT!I MY FRIEND PICKED UP A WOMEN'S LONG BEIGE WOOL COAT WHICH LOOKS A LOT LIKE MINE. IF  Need rider1 to I.U.,SLOOMINGTON· L•vlng Thura. & returning Sat. night call EO at 1528.  OAR I~OUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR.  5pm·12am; Friday 5pm-2am; Saturday 3pm-1am; Sundey4pm-10pm  HAPPY BIRTHDAY BAR WIU NEVER LOVE,MJ  ELLYN!! SENIOR BE THE SAME!I  
......................  YOU HAVE A SIMILAR COAT WITH  CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1  lhank·you St. Jude  
- LoaT: A palf of teddiah·framed women'a ~in a cream colored cue. If  SROWM TRIM AND BROWN BUTTONS PLEASE CALL 284·5543 OR 5526. I  BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  ............................. ........................ PHILLY PHILLY PHILLY PHILLY Sig­ MHOIRE MCGRATH--DO YOU STILL EXIST? HERE'S THE PERSONAL AS  
found. pi-call4128. Thanka.  'IIJE YOURS'  Ridera n-led fo NORTH JERSEY lor  Earn $$$ IO< all thoae booka you didn't  nupa IO< lhe PhiNy bua for XMAS break •  PROMISED. CALL ME SOON. BEFORE  
Chriatmu break. can leave Oecembm 18  read!l  PANDORA'S will buy your ueed  Thura. Dec 5, 8pm in Lafortune. ?s call  X·MAS. LOVE YOUR SMC CONNEC·  
FOUND:  ONE  STUDENT  BOOK  OF  "'19. cell M1chelle 2n-4364.  bookll M·F 11-4. Of we can help you find a  OaveG.3270  TION!  
BASKETBALL TICKETS. FOUND BEFORE THE ST. JOSEPH'S 8-8AU. GAME. THERE WAS NO NAME ON THE  FOR RENT  need femaiB rider to help drlve-pointa -1-wyomu>g. utah, leaving dec. 21at  used book lot a c1.... We're open M-F 11· 6, SAT & SUN ID-5. PANDORA'S ia op· poaite CORBY'S at 937 Soulh Bend Ave.  HAY FEVER HAY FEVER  Ia tho bower to the right··Of wu that lhe LEFT ... 8 3/8 inch&~?!  
BACK OF THEM, SO TO CLAIM, YOU  call mary jo 284·5548 Of 272 8616.  HAY FEVER  
MUST  TELL  ME  EXACTLY  WHERE  .....................  ·····················  SENIORS! HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES  CATCH ITI  cc, kaleen, mary, hdk, annie. and duke. I  
YOUR SEAT WAS LOCA TEO. CALL TIM  Nice fumiahed homee for nextiiChool y- NEED RIDE. TO U OF Ill DEC 6-8 CALL  Worl< •  a volunt-in aeveral U.S. citi81.  O'LAUGHLIN  AUDITORIUM  THRUS.  miu you all! Have a Guin-IOf mel  
AT 1243.  2n-3604  KATHY SMC-4395  Apphcation: Mary Ann Roemer, 7949.  DAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, BE THERE I  love. Meglo  

The Observer Wednesday, December 4, 1985-page 11 
Miami coach Johnson gets wish as Hurricanes move to No. 2 in poll 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla.-Miami was accorded respect that Coach Jimmy Johnson felt was long overdue yes­terday when the Hurricanes vaulted to No. 2 in The Associated Press poll and within striking distance of their second national football champion­ship in three years. 
A critic of balloting in recent weeks because of his team's slow rise despite victories on the road over· Oklahoma, Florida State and Maryland, Johnson was ecstatic that the Hurricanes climbed from fourth in the next-to-last regular season poll. 
Miami has won 10 games in a row since losing its season opener to Florida and is traveling a path that is strikingly similar to the road it took to the national championship under Howard Schnellenberger two years 
ago. 
Schnellenberger's 1983 team also lost its opener to Florida, but rattled off 11 straight victories -including a triumph over Nebraska in the Orange Bowl -to claim the crown. The 1985 Hurricanes are headed for the Sugar Bowl and a showdown with Southeastern Conference champion Tennessee. 
"This team has made a lot of progress and has made steady im­provement throughout the season," said Johnson, who replaced Schnel­lenberger two months before the start of the 1984 campaign. "We're happy to have a high ranking. I think we're deserving of this ranking ... or higher." 
No. 1 Penn State, which com­pleted an 11-0 regular season a week earlier and will meet fourth-ranked Oklahoma in the Orange Bowl, received 47 of 59 first-place votes and 1,164 ofa possible 1,180 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. 
Miami received three first-place votes and 1,063 points to move past Iowa and Oklahoma, which had held · down the No. 2 and No. 3 spots a 
see poll, page 13 
week ago. Rose Bowl-bound Iowa collected three first-place ballots and 1,050 points, while Oklahoma dropped from third to fourth with five first-place votes and 1,048 points. 
The other first-place ballot went to Michigan, 9-1-1, which remained in fifth place with 935 points. 
The Hurricanes closed the regular season with a 58:7 mauling of Notre Dame last Saturday. In the aftermath, Johnson pushed aside suggestions that he tried to run up the score to impress pollsters, saying: "I couldn't ask our second-and third-stringers to not do their best." 
Smith attributes the Hurricanes' 


"'I rn:r:f? Erasmus Books j ....1'! r 1027 E. Wayne -'"jill~•. • Tues-Sun, noon· 6 
···-· 1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy 
u.... a -•ol....._t boob!'-..t. -w.-I'Cited 
University of Notre Dame College of Business Administration 

The O'Neil Lecture Series 
SPEAKER: Dr. Martin L. Weitzman, Professor of Economics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
TOPIC: "Profit -Shoring as o Way to Reduce Unemployment" 
DATE: Thursday, December 5,1985 
TIME AND PLACE: 
12:15 P.M., Faculty Seminar Board Room, Hayes-Healy Building All members of the University of Notre Dame Faculty are Invited. 
4: 15 P.M., Lecture and Discussion Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Room 122) Faculty, Students, and the Public ore invited. 
The New York Times 
From an Editorial of March 28, 1985 
"Best Idea Since Keynes.'' In what may be the most important contribution to economic thought since John Maynard Keynes's General Theory, Martin Weitzman, an M.I.T. economist, suggests an elegt~nt way to br~ak the link between employment and the business cycle. He set out hlS plan in a readable little b?ok called "The Share £c6nomy." The core of.his 1 dea is SOJnet~l ng 11 ke profit-sharing: to change our system of f1xed wages to one 1n which workers' incomes are detet"lnfned by company perfo~ance. Most workers are paid according to contracts. From the employers perspective, how much they're paid depends almost entirely on how many hours times the hourly rate. If the cost of extra h~urs is less than the extra revenues the work would yield, the employer h1res more ~eople. If workers insist on higher wages or sales fall, they get la1~ off. Professor Weitzman asks us to imagine a different pattern. Po1nt one: Suppose that labor. instead of negotiating for so 
many dollars an hour, negotiated for a share of company revenues. Point two: Suppose the agreement leaves the employer free to hire as many more workers as he wants. Attitudes toward hiring would be 
transformed. 


success to total team dedication and the development of quarterback Vinny Testaverde, who replaced Bernie Kosar when Kosar ga,ve up his final two years of college eligibility for the National Football League. 
Smith said he wasn't surprised the Hurricanes advanced two spots al· though neither Iowa or Oklahoma lost last weekend. "We feel like we were deserving to be ahead of both of them. This makes it right." 
Florida, 9-1-1 but barred from bowls because of NCAA probation, held onto sixth place with 903 points, followed by Nebraska, 9-2, which climbed from eighth to seventh with 779 points. 
Tennessee, which won the SEC 
title and a Sugar Bowl berth opposite 
Miami with a 30-0 shutout of Van­
derbilt, jumped from lOth to eighth. 
Brigham Young, 10-2, and Air Force, 
11-1, round out the Top Ten. 
The second ten consists of Texas A&M, LSU, Arkansas, UCLA, Alabama, Auburn, Ohio State, Florida State, Oklahoma State and unbeaten Bowling ~reen, which cracked the Top Twenty for the first timein 12 years. 
The Mid-American champions last appeared in the rankings in Septem­ber 1973 when the Falcons were tied for 20th for one week. Bowling Green will take an 11-0 record into the California Bowl against Fresno State. 
Top-seed Lendl advances in Open 
Associated Press Steyn, ranked 170th in the world, 
played extremely well and often 

MELBOURNE, Australia -Top kept LendJ, the wotld's No. 1, off seed Ivan LendJ of Czechoslovakia balance. He needed 2 hours, 23 moved into the quarterfinals of the minutes to wrap up the match, Sl.5 million Australian Open tennis which set up a meetingwith English­championships yesterday with a 6-3, manJohn Lloyd in the quarterfinals. 6-2, 6-7, 6-2 triumph over unseeded The 26-year-old began the match South African Christo Steyn. in impressive style -hammering four 
aces in his first service game, taking 

Lend!, the U.S. open champion the first set 6-3 and the next 6-2. bidding to win the Australian Open Steyn, a 24-year-old graduate of title for the first time, was given a the University of Miami, rallied in code of conduct violation for ball the third set. abuse in the third set and bounced The South AfriCan led 5-2, had a his racquet angrily on a couple ofoc­set,point at 5-3 and, after Lendl had casions. fought back, took the tiebreaker 7.3. 
The fourth set was all LendJ's, however. The Lend! victory completed the quarter-finaJ line-up. 
Besides Lendl-lloyd, Michie! Schapers of the Netherlands will play Stefan Edberg of Sweden, Mats Wilander of Sweden meets Johan Kriek of the United States and John McEnroe of the United States is paired with Slobodan Zivojinovic of Yugoslavia. 
Ion Tiriac, the former Romanian tennis star now guiding the careers of Boris Becker and Zivojinovic, has no doubts about the ability of the lesser·lmown ofhis two charges. 

tennis tournament with his win over Christo Steyn. More on the tournament can befound in the story above. 
--~-~~-~-~-~-~-~.-.~.-.~-~-~-~-~-~...,..~...,..e..:o-e..:~.e..:~-e..:~-e..,..e..,..e,.~..,..~..,..e...,..e...,..e...,..~...e..:~.~.-~-~-~.. 
~ ND/SMC Theatre Presents Hay: Fever bv J 
.~ Noel Coward $ 
~ i
"' ~ A Delightfully Frivolous Comedy ~
11 ~ "' 
~ O'Laughlin Auditorium Student Tickets $4.00 f ­~ December 5,6,7, 12, 13,14 May be purchased at Door i ~ At 8:10 P.M. Or Reserved by calling the \l ~ Box Office at 284-4626 f 
.-.e..:~.e..:~.e..:o-e..,..e...,..!1>.<:~·~-=-t>..,. ~-~.;..e..:o-~.-.~-~-'1>.-~.-.e..:~-e.<:l-l'l.-.~.-.~-~-~-~.~-~-t>...,.t>at>..:o-~...,.~""'·~""·e..:o-e !J 

The Observer Wednesday, December 4, 1985-page 12 

AP Photo 

Indiana basketball coach Bobby Knight threwa chair infrustra­tion last season when his team dropped a match with Purdue. This season, however, things have been running smoother as Knight's Hoosiers find themselves in the AP Top-20 basketball pollfor this week. The poll and a related story can befound at left. 
$5.040 FOR COWCE FOR WEEKEND WORK. 
It's the New Arrm Re-serve GJ Bill. and it's yours for college-up to $).040-for serYing one weekend a month (usually) plus tV.'O weeks annual training in a nearby local Reserve unit. 
The money for college is just part of the Army Reserve experience rou'll eam a good. part-time salary-over $1,225 a year to start-plu:;, learning an interesting skill. One that could possibly help you in your civilian career The challenge to you mentally and physically. The excitement. And money for college It's all waiting for you in the Army Reserve. 
To find out how you can qualify. call or stop by: 
SERGEJ.I..NT LANE 
219-234-4187 

ARMY RESERVE. BEAUYOU CAM 
dBv
d Opt'rate · OUJflt!d All Of Ladies · "" Is rurer . . 

d FashtO•'"' Manufac ,ct pnce~­
can a rei I rv Dtrr
ding APpu . At fadO . 
LeO . , fashtOil!S 
ouuhl) 
~~CQNDQ~ 

With Affordable Business Fashions 
EVERYDAY 
~ PRICES: 
Suits from $39.99 
Blazers from $19.99 
Shirts & Slacks from $10.99 
South Bend: Buyers Market Place 

5901 N. Grape Road Mishawaka. Indiana 46545 

-
Michigan takes over N·o. 2 in poll 
Assodatcd Press 
The first tipoff that Michigan might be moving up in The As· sociated Press college basketball poll came in the Tip-Off Classic, when the Wolverines knocked off second-ranked Georgia Tech. 
Yesterday, a nationwide panel of sports writers and broadcasters made it official, giving Michigan 12 first-place votes and 1,165 points · not enough to seriously threaten North Carolina's hold on first place · but enough to move the 4-0 Wol· verines up from third to second. 
In fact, the Stumbling Wrecks from Georgia Tech, who sat atop the preseason poll and slipped to second a week ago, are fifth this week following Saturday's nationally televised 49-44 loss to Michigan in Springfield, Mass., that put their record at 2-1. 
North Carolina, 5·0 and the win­ner of the Great Alaska Shootout last 

weekend, received 45 of a possible 63 first-place votes and 1,239 points.
. 

Duke also rode a tournament tri· 
umph norrhward in the rankings, 
receiving four first-place votes and 
1,1 12 points to jump from sixth to 
third. 

The Blue Devils won the in· 
augural Big Apple National Invila· 
tion Tournament last weekend in 
New York, defeating then-fifth­
ranked Kansas 92·86 for the title. 
And on Monday night, Duke, playing 
its second game in less than 24 hours 
and third in four days, routed East 
Carolina 98-66 to run its record to 
6-0. 

Syracuse, 3-0, remained fourrh in the poll with 1,054 points, followt·d by Georgia Tech with 910. Geor· getown, unbeaten in its first two games, received one first-place vote and 908 points for sixth, up two spots from a week ago. Kansas, 3·1, fell to seventh with 830 points. 
Oklahoma, 5·0, made a big jump 
from 12th to eighth place with 753 points. Kentucky and Notre Dame each moved up one notch . Ken· tucky, 3·0, to ninth with 693 points and Notre Dame, 2-0, to I Oth with 636 points and the remaining first· place vote. 
APTopT-.ty The Top Twenty college buketballteama 
•n The Auocl•ted Preu poll, with firat·placa votes in parenlhesee, thi1 aeuon'a recorda and total points. Points baaed on 20-19-18· 17 etc. Notre Dame opp1>nents are 
itiJ/icized. 
1. No. Carolina (45) 5·0 1239 2. Michigan (12) 4..() 1165 3. Duke(4) 6·0 1112 4. Syr8CUIIJ 3..() 1054 5. Georgia Tech 2·1 910 6. Georgetown ( 1) 2-o 908 7. Kansu 3-1 830 B. Oldahoma s-o 753 9. Kentucky 3-0 693 10. Non O.ma(1) 2-G 636 11. LSU 5-o 565 12. IUinois 2·1 527 13. Memphio St. 2..() 469 14. UNLV 4·1 445 15. St. John's 3-1 412 16. louisville 2·2 287 17. UAB 2·1 166 18. Iowa 4..() 126 19. Auburn 1·1 122 
(tie) Indiana 1·0 122 
NVA interhall basketball teams get ready to start battle for '86 crown 
By MICHAEL KEEGAN 
Sports Writer 
Last night marked the beginning of the 1985-86 interhall basketball season. According to NVA organizer Blll Carswell, every hall produces strong teams that enhance the level ofcompetition. 
"Strong competition, especially in the A-League, is present year after year," said Carswell. "There are very few dominating teams. Blow out games hardly ever occur because of the level ofIntensity ofeach team." 
Paul Derment, captain of the Grace I team, also feels that the com· petltlve level of interhall basketball Is extremely strong. 
"The league consists of some of the best athletes on campus," said Derment. "Because of these players, the level of competition is initially strong. Most of these athletes take the games seriously because for many it will be their last chance to play organized basketball. The level of intensity generated throughout the league almost makes it the same caliber of basketball played at many small colleges." 

The A-League consists of three divisions: the A.C.C., the Big Sky, and the Big Ten. The regular season con· sists of either six or seven gamt's depending upon the size of each division. When the regular season ends in mid-February, the top two teams in each division will be placed into the playoffs. 
For the moment, Carswell believes that no teams can be predicted as favorites in each divi· sion. The Towers, Flanner Hall and Grace Hall, however, are perennial powerhouses. 
"We can't get a feel for the power· house teams until the end of the season," commented Carswell. "The season really does not get into swing until after break. With only two games before break, we can only see which teams might be strong and which may be weak. 
"As proved in previous years 
though, the Towers are always 
strong," continued Carswell. "Grace 
for instance comes out playing 

The last club sport to wind up its fall season is the 
Salling Club. The club just completed a lengthy 
schedule which had the team racing almost every 
weekend. The results were impressive as the team col· 
lected a second, three thirds, and a fourth. In addition, 
the Irish qualified for the national regatta at Chicago. 
"The: team this year was much Improved over last 
year," said Club President Dan Dressel. "We did a little 
better at each regatta." 
In order to claim a spot at the Chicago regatta, the 
Irish first had to race in a qualifying regatta at th~ Uni· 
verslty of Michigan. The team took third, the last 
qualifying spot. 
Then over Thanksgiving break the Sailing Club 
went to Chicago to take on a field which included 
coastal powerhouses Rhode Island, Harvard, Navy, 
and Southern Cal. The Irish, putting forth their best 
effort of the year, finished tenth. · 
"Rarely do midwest schools beat schools not from 
the midwest," noted Dressel. "We were third among 
midwest schools, but we ended up fenth when you 
include the seven schools not from the midwest." 
The Sailing Club began its season with its traditional trip to the East Coast. And as traditional this trip resulted in a killing, as Notre Dame finished 17th out of 18 teams at the Yale regatta. Actually this trip is a very important experience-gainer for the team. 
The club then held the Notre Dame regatta on Diamond Lake in Cassopolis, Michigan. In a field of 18, the Irish placed a strong second. 
Other regattas included third place showings at Iowa and Marquette, and a fourth at Michigan. The team also raced a three-man sloop at Detroit, placing sixth, and two single-man boats at Northwestern, finishing eigth and tenth. 

zones on defense while using 
numerous set plays on offense. Their 
organization leads to many wins." 
All of the games take place in the ACC gyms numbered one to four. The games consist offour 1 0-minute quarters of running time. Any overtime contest will be decided by a three minute overrimc period. 
An interesting development to this year's league will be whether or not varsity football players will be allowed to play. With Lou Holtz in· forming the players of 6 a.m. mor­ning workouts throughout the winter, there is doubt as to whether he will allow them to play interhall basketball. Carswell believes that many of the teams depend on these players to enhance their chances to win. 
"It will be interesting to see Ifthe varsity football players will be allowed to play," said Carswell. "With Holtz coming in to coach, new team rules, such as morning workouts, will be added. These rules could prevent the fo01tball players from playing during the interhall basketball season." 
D Sailing Club, novice crew units enjoy great success as season ends 
Pete Gegen 
Club Corner 


The club raced four boats throughout the season. 
The skipper-crew combinations for these boats were 
Dressel and Ann Wiedemann, Tony Fink and Sarah 
Hussey, Ted Ganely and Barb Blanchette. and Mark 
Ryan and Priscilla Karle. 
The team has a short spring season which st:u-ts in 
late March with the Notre Dame Freshman Regatta, 
and includes races at Toledo and Ohio State. 
Much like the varsity crew teams, the Rowi111g Club's men's 11nd women's novice teams have done very well "this fall. 
In a race against Michigan, the women placed four boats in the top six. The men raced well against stiff varsity competition, but did not place any boats in the finals. 
In late November the teams entered one boat each in the Frostbite Reggata at Philadelphia. According to women's novice coach Gretchen Pugliese, the women gave the best performance over by a novice women's boat by winning a gold medal in their heat. And the men also raced well, placing fifth in their heat. The overall results are not yet available. 
---------------~-------------~ 
------------~----­
Wednesday, December 4, 1985-page 13
The Observer 
Q @ , SPORTS WEDNESDAY @ 8 
NAnONALCONF~k~E 
EMt 

w  L  T  Pet.  PF  
DaH88  9  4  0  .692  289  
N.Y. Giants  8  5  0  .815  315  
Waahington  7  6  0  .538  226  
Philadelphia  6  7  0  .462  223  
St. Louis  4  9  0 .308  220  
C8ntr81  
Chicago  12  1  0  .923  383  
Detroit  7  6  0  .538  261  
Green Bay  6  7  0  .462  267  
Minneaot.a  6  7  0  .462  272  
Tampa Bay  2  11  0  .154  247  
WMt  
L.A. Rama  9  4  0  .692  261  
San  Fran·  
CISCO  8  5  0  .615  329  
New0r1eana  5  8  0  .385  249  
Attanta  2  11  0  .154  242  

NFL 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
EMt 
PA w L T Pet. PF PA 
231 New England 9 4 0 .692 278 231 
231 N.Y. Jets 9 4 0 692 323 228 
260 Miami 9 4 0 .692 336 269 
238 Indianapolis 3 10 0 .231 245 330 
325 Buffalo 2 11 0 .154 169 269 
canlr8l 
165 aeveland 7 6 0 .538 238 205 
280 Cincinnati 6 7 0 462 344 352 
281 Pittsburgh 6 7 0 .462 295 249 
301 Houston 5 8 0 .385 233 315 
371 
WMt 
227 L.A. Raiders 9 4 0 .692 308 285 
Denver 9 4 0 .692 325 275 
201 Seattle 7 6 0 .538 291 250 
391 San Diego 6 7 0 .462 359 339 
391 KanauCity 4 9 0 .308 229 302 
Monday'a Aeault Miami 38, Chicago 24 


College Bowl Lineup 
Saturday, Dec. 14 C.llfornla Bowl (Freano, C.llf.) Fresno St. (10-Q-1) vs. Bowling Green (11-0), 3 p.m. 
Saturday, Dec. 21 Cherry Bowl (Pontiac, Mich.) Syracuse (8-3) vs. Maryland (8­3),1 p.m. 
Independence Bowl (Shreveport, La.) Clemson (6-5) vs. Minnesota• (6­5),8p.m. 
Sunday, Dec. 22 Holiday Bowl (San Diego, C.llf.) Arkansas (9-2) vs. Arizona St. (8-3) 8 p.m. 
Friday, Dec. 27 Uberty Bowl (Memphla, Tenn.) Baylor(9-2) vs. LSU (8-1-1), 8:30 p.m. 
Saturday, Dec. 28 Florida Cltrua Bowl (Orlando, Fla.) Ohio St. (8-3) vs. Brigham Young (10-2), 1 p.m. 
Sun Bowl (EIPuo,Texu) Georgia (7-3-1) vs. Arizona (8­3),3p.m. 
Aloha Bowl (Honolulu, Hawaii) Alabama (8-2-1) vs. Southern Cal (6-5), 8 p.m. 
Monday, Dec. 30 Freedom Bowl (Anaheim, C.llf.) Washington (6-5) vs. Colorado (7-4), 8 p.m. 
Gator Bowl (Jackaonvllle, Fla.) Florida St. (8-3) vs. Oklahoma St. (8-3), 8 p.m. 
Tuesday, Dec. 31 Peach Bowl (Atlanta, Ga.) Army (8-2) vs. Illinois (6-4-1), 2:30p.m. 
Bluebonnet Bowl (Houaton, Texaa) Air Force (11-1) vs. Texas (8-3), 2:45p.m. 
NBA

NHL 
A-cDtvl81an

Aclllme Divia1on w L Pet. Q8
w L T GF llA Pia. 
Boston 16 2 .889 ­

Boston 12 8 4 93 79 28 Philadelphia 10 8 .556 6 
Montreal 12 9 3 106 88 27 '•\ 
New Jersey 10 9 .526 6.5 

Quebec 12 "'0 1 85 75 25 Wuhington 8 10 .444 8 Buffalo 12 11 1 87 76 25 New York 5 14 .263 11.5 
Hartford 11 11 0 87 89 22 Cantr81 Dtvl81on 
P111rick Dtvl81an 
Milwaukee 15 7 .682 ­Philadelphia 19 6 0 116 73 38 
Detroit 12 8 .600 2 Wuhington 14 7 3 95 75 31 
Atlanta 8 11 .421 5.5 

N.Y. 
Illes 10 8 6 92 91 26 


Cleveland 7 11 .389 6 

N.Y. 
Rangers 11 13 1 91 84 23 

ChiCII(IO 7 14 .333 7.5 Pittsburgh 9 12 3 93 87 21 
Indiana 4 14 .222 9 New Jersey 9 12 1 n 89 19 
Ml~ Dtvl81on Smythe Dvl81an 
w L Pet. Q8 w L T QF 111< P1a 
Houston 14 6 .700 ­
Denver 12 7 .632 1.5

Edmonton 18 4 3 129 90 39 
10. Air For<» 11-1.0 617
Utah 12 8 .600 2

c.lgary 13 8 3 103 84 29 
11. TexaA&M &-2-o 562
DaiU 10 7 .588 2.5

Vancouver 9 14 3 101 114 21 
12. LSU 8-1-1 531
San Antonio 10 9 .526 3.5

Winnipeg 9 14 3 90 121 21 
13. Arkanaaa 9-2.() 416
Sacramento 6 12 .333 7

LoaAngelea 5 15 3 79 127 13 
14. UCLA 8·2-1 410
PIICiflc Dtvl81an 

Norrta Dtvl81an 
15. Alabema 8-2-1 363
L.A.Lakers 15 2 .882 ­
16. Auburn 8-3-0 318

St. Louis 10 9 3 78 84 23 
Portland 12· 9 .571 5 
17. Ohio State 8-3-0 255

ChiCII(IO 9 11 4 97 108 22 
Seattle 9 10 .474 7 
18. FloridaSt. 8-3-0 140

Minr>MOia 7 12 6 94 116 20 
Golden State 8 13 .381 9 
19. Oklahoma St. 8-3-0 97

Detroit 7 13 4 79 118 18 
L.A. Clippers 6 12 .333 9.5 
20. Bowling Green 11-Q.O 73

Toronto 5 15 3 79 103 13 
Phoenix 3 16 .158 13 

At First=·=====; 
you succeed 
Reception: VVednesday,December4, 1985 Morris Inn· Alumni Room 
7:00 · 9:00 P.M. 

All interested candidates are welcome 
Interviews: Monday, February 10, 1986 
Fin:: !01nit Sys:e~ lS the l'lth liq!!tbank holdir.g ccm;:.my ln the counc:y with binks 01r.d t!".!St cot:l.p.u:.Jes 
~~~.Z~i~~: ~~k"~~~e~~~~ ~~~~~~;~c;.~~uP!"!lr~·::.t!~~':,~~~~~~:JS~~~:.~~:-~~ 
f!.Jgsh1p b01nks. w.ch ccmbu:.cd UK~ m ~~::r..:eu of S1; btU101'L. ~~ oifxes 01nd bnr:.d:~ .m: also !CCJted 1b:cad..•. !e--.Juse of ~t c.Omftm.:ve ts~t".Jre of tcC.lys de."q!Ji.ced banking e~nree::-:t. First S.m.lc Sys~e:r: 15 :tr.::ly c.ornm•t:ei to mve:mr.g.che n:::e .tod mcne:<J n.e--....euuy co he!p Its prciec..sier...Jls beo::co.e: the: ~r.: ;n thc:r :te!C.S. 

First BankSystem===l,:
C . In First.
amng 
SM 

All-American Bowl (Birmingham, Ala.) Mich. St. (7-4) vs. Georgia Tech (8-2-1), 8 p.m. 
.wednesday, Jan. 1 FleataBowl (Tempe, Ariz.) Michigan (9-1-1) vs. Nebraska (9-2), 1:30 p.m. 
Cotton Bowl (Dalla, Texaa) Auburn (8-3) vs. Texas A&M (9­2) winner, 1 :30 p.m. 
ROM Bowl (Paudena, C.llf.) Iowa (1D-1) vs. UCLA (8-2-1), 5 p.m. 
Sugar Bowl (New Orleana, La.) Miami (10-1) vs. Tennessee (8­1-2), 8 p.m. 
Orange Bowl (Miami, Fla.) Penn St. (11-0) vs. Oklahoma (9­1),8p.m. 
Top20 
The Top T-nty college foolball teams in The A88ociated p,..,.. poll, with first-place votea in parentheses, this eeuon·a records and totlll pointa. Pointa baaed on 20-19-18­
17 etc. 
1. PennState(47) 11-Q.O 1,164 2. Miami 10.Hl 1,063 3. lowa(3) 1()-1.() 1,050 4. Oklahoma (5) 9-1.() 1,048 5. Michigan ( 1) 9-1-1 935 6. Florida 9-1-1 903 7. Nebruka 9-2.() n9 B. Ten,_..., 8-1-2 746 9. Bngham Young 10.2.() 657 

~(umni­
eoSentC9r Cfu6 
\Jpectafs: 1· 
Wednesday Nj ght ­EASY STREET 
Come end enjoy the sounds of Pink Floyd, Jim Morrison, end Jimmy Buffet. Also-$.90 Imports!! 

j 

l 4 
-
•. 

The Observer Wednesday, December 4, 1985-page 14 
lndia1111 82, Notre Dame 67
"We came back and were alert 
Notre Dame (67)
and I was very pleased with the way 
M FG-A FT-A R F P
Irish 

we played the game. When we got Royal 32 5-8 3-8 5 2 13 beat last year, I was disappointed in Barlow 38 4-15 6-6 7 2 14
continuedfrompage 16 

Kempton 14 o-1 o-o 2 3 o
,the way we had played, and I'm sure 
Rivers 36 8-15 2-4 1 3 18
til freshman Mark Stevenson hit a that's the way (Notre Dame) feels 
Hicks 20 4-7 o-o 3 2 a 
short jumper in the lane with 6:07 tonight." 

Dolan 6 o-o 0-0 0 2 0 remaining to pull Notre Dame wit­Voce 12 o-o o-o 1 3 o Price o-o
hin six at 67-61. "Indiana regrouped and played 17 2-3 2 3 4 
Stevenson 19 5-9 0-0 2 3 10
Stevenson had 1 0 points on the well," added Phelps. "I thought they 
Beeuwsaert 3Q-OQ-0110
night, his best performance of the controlled the game tempo. We had Smith 1 o-o o-oooo young season. a chance to cut into the lead and go Connor 1 o-o o-oooo Peters 1 o-o o-oooo
Only nine seconds after Steven­after it, but we used poor shot selec­
200 28-58 11-18 24 24 67
son's basket, though, Winston Mor­tion. Our level ofconcentration was 
FG Pet. .483. FT Pet. ·· .611. Team 
gan countered for Indiana, 1-1, with poor." 

rebounds -7. Turnovers -2·1. Assists -8 a short jumper from the left side to Besides Alford's excellent play (Barlow, Rivers 3). Technicals-None. give the Hoosiers some breathing and Notre Dame's inadequate shot 
lndia1111(82) M FG-A FT-," R F P 
room. selection, the desire to win seemed 
Morgan 39 7-9 1-2 4 3 15 Morgan had 1 5 points for the to weigh more heavily with the Harris ·r4 2-4 o-o 1 5 4 Hoosiers on 7-of-9 shooting, while Hoosiers. Thomas 21 2-5 4-5 4 5 8 freshman Ricky Calloway added 18 "They were really motivated," Alford 39 13-23 6-7 2 3 32 
Calloway 37 6-9 6-6 9 4 18
points ofhis own. said Rivers. "They were more into 
Ayt 30 1-3 Q-1 4 1 2 
"Maybe the most crucial play was the game." 

Smith 4 o-o 3-4003 the basket Morgan got when we had Meier 5o-oo-o210 the six-point lead," said Knight. "I Notre Dame now must attempt to Brooks 3 o-o o-oooo Robinson a o-1 o-o o o o
felt at that point we were a little motivate itself by Saturday, when 
200 31-54 20-25 26 22 82 
tired and (Andre) Harris and (Daryl) Loyola (Ill. ) visits the ACC for a 4 
FG Pet. .574. FT Pet. · .800. Team Thomas had already fouled out. I p.m. game. The Ramblers upst:t rebounds -4. Turnovers -19. Assists -14 was hoping we could take some time North Carolina State last weekend (Morgan 5). Technicals-None. Halftime-Indiana 41, Notre Dame 31. Offi­
oiJ the clock and work to score on and will be looking to do the same to 
cials -Rich Mulkow, Rich Eichhorst, Tom 
every possession. another ranked team in Notre Dame:. 
O'Neill (all Missouri Valley). A-17,161. 
Defense 
continued/rom page 16 
hurt us. When we had to have the 
buckets we gave the ball away." 
"I didn't have an opportunity to 
get the shots I wanted and to do 
what I wanted," said Rivers. 
"(Winston Morgan's) defense was 
good. There were things I didn't do 
because I couldn't." 
"We've worked really hard to get 
together out on the court and get 
things done together," said Knight. 
"I think It showed tonight." 
With that togetherness, the Hoosiers were able to defense an Irish Inside game that was expected to dominate the smaller Indiana squad. 
Of all the Irish frontline players, only Donald Royal V3 points) and Barlow (14 points) were able to score. 
In the rebounding department, where the Irish also were supposed to dominate, Notre Dame ended up with 31 to the Hoosier's 30. Indiana did a very good job keeping the Irish off the offensive board, often hol­ding them to one shot. 
"We knew they were going to try 
and push the ball inside because of 
their size," said Hoosier freshman 
guard Ricky Calloway, who finished 
with 18 points. "So we concentrated 
on keeping the ball out of the post." 
"Our scoring game inside broke down," said Phelps. "They did a good job against us. We have to have the inside game to be successful and tonight it was a negative for us. 
"We didn't do the things we had to do inside. We didn't get the of­fensive rebound, and we let therA 

T H E 


inside too often. If we score inside, then Rivers Is able to go outside, but we weren't able to get it going inside." 
Knight agreed with his couoter­part's assessment, adding that he ~a'> pleased with his team's work in the rebounding area. 
"We knew Notre Dame was a good rebounding team," he said. "We had to come close to neutraliz­ing that and we did, I thought. 
"I was really pleased with the way we played the game from the standpoint of doing what we were supposed to do." 
As for the Irish defense, it showed flashes of strength, but often came up lacking against the patient Hoosier offense. 
Too many times, especially as the Irish tried to come back from a 10­
THEEARLY ~­
BIRD £·• 
In "*'w ~111 SUit 5Uolt', H K.l(lldn lO'UUMr!dl f~tf II(J 
TEST PREPOlRATION SPECIAliSTS SIMCE 19311 CALL DAYS. EVENINGS & WEEKENDS 1717 E. Soulh Bend Ave Soulh Bend, Indiana ~6637 
(21 272-4135 
B A N D 


fl, i Ill ill ll'' 
Will be appearlnt: Saturday D•c•mb•r7 Alumni-S•niar Club B:DDpm-t:DD am 
FREE PIZZA SOFT DRINKS 

-
AND 
Cam• dane• ta th• •aund• af 11Thi• End Up'' andfind yaur••lf •unny•ict. up! 
Sponsored by: Around the Corner Club 


point half-time <!elicit, the Hoosiers left the Irish defense confused and out ofposition. 
junior guard Steve Alford riddled the Irish defense, scoring 32 points, many coming on open jumpers and uncontested base-line drives. 
With the Irish left out of position on their full-court press and half­court defense, Indiana. often was able to find someone all :done inside. These layups led to 57-percent 
Notre Dame sophomore guard David Rivers goes for the bucket
shooting for the game, 63 percent in 
over an Indiana defender in last night's game. Rivers scored./8
the second halfwith the Irish trying 
points but it wasn't enough as the Irish fell victim to a relentless
to chip away at ttle lead. 
Hoosier defense and a hot-shooting Steve Alford. 

~  
·wEo.­ BAND  -EASY STREET  
2nd Appearance!! Come and get a taste of-Pink Floyd Jim Morrison, and Jimmy Buffet. Also!! $.90 cents IMPORTS!  

• HURS.-Music with MAX, come out for some Glory D~ys!!! SPECIALS: $.80 Mixed Drinks and 
$.50 Haagen-Daz!!! FR L-Take off to the Great White North Day with $1 Canadian Imports and $1 Canadian Whiskey!!! 
FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1069 139-7521 
'JI['4(Jt~~~----------------------------------------•VV•e•d•n•e•s•d•a•y-,D--e.ce.m..b•e•r•4•'•1•9•8•5--•p·a•g•e•t..s •
Bloom County 

Zeto 

ACROSS 1 Amusing ones 6 Rages 
10 Hit 14 Toward the 
left 15 Arrow poison 16 Fountain drink 17 Of the cheek 18 Kings and 
queens 20 Introductory statement 22 Ms Blake 
et al. 23 Boxing term 24 Basic: abbr. 25 Maxims 29 Spread out 
troops 34 Tree snake 35 Place for 
clothes 37 Martini item 38 Asian notable 39 Milne and 
Paton 41 Kind bl code ©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
12/4/85
42 Run-down All Rights Reserved 44 QEDword 45 Wagon 7 Literary 46 Tiny plants collection 48 Objects 8 Sticker 50 Current units 9 Appeared 52 Moccasin 10 Look over 53 Sunshade 11 News 57 Makes bubbly 12 Hawkeye of water "Mash" 
61 TV performer's 13 Russ. news prompter agency 63 Orchard 19 Gem carved 
64 "High-" In relief 65 Franklin 21 Coconut meat 
flew one 24 Steep slopes 66 Lips 25 Whey 67 Punta del -26 A Montague 
68 Br.gun 27 Indians 69 Tyrants 28 Recital of happenings 12/4/85
DOWN 30 Table-seating 1 Bivouac items 43 Dough raiser 56 First-rate 2 Armadillo 31 Turk. coins 47 Garments 57 Former Br. 3 Character 32 Out In the 49 Bull's-eye colony 4 SSS Issues open 51 Braid of hair 58 Robe of office 5 Ship's hull 33 Irish poet 53 Long 59 Always 
planks 36 Wood knot 54 Commotions 60 Meeting: abbr. 6 Flute 40 Minehole 55 Profusion 62 Hwy. 

Ireland 

~ 
~
Program 

T 
A ~ 
Information Meeting 

C J. T Jj't, J.
TONIGHT 

V 11\, 
I
6:30p.m. 

r 
.Jt,I A
Clubhouse SMC (near Holy Cross HaD) 

~ 
~ 
Pwa ..... Slides •••• Scrapbooks 
l 


Berke Breatheq The Far Side Gary Larson 


Kevin Walsh 
-
. 

..• I WAS WONDER/No WHAT THill" WHIIT' ~ ~/N6 OOTOF 
1HE DOME ME"AI\IT. 
Campus 
•12:
15 P.M. -Workshop, "Experiences with Keenan Hall Chapel, Sponsored by Notre Employee B-uyouts and Industrial Revolving Dame Spiritual Rock Funds", Charles Craypo, University of Notre •7:00 P.M. -Faculty Voice Recital, Loretta Dame, Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Robinson, Little Theater, Saint Mary's, Department ofEconomics Sponsored by Saint Mary's Department of 

• 
3: I 5 P.M. -Lecture, "Science and the Global Music, Community: the Nobel Peace Prize", James •7:00 P.M.· 8:00P.M.· Workshop, "Skills for Muller, M.D., Harvard Medical School, Center the Second Interview", Kate Dascenzo, Assis­for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Institute tant Director, Career and Placement Services, for Peace Stllldies, Center for Social Concerns Career and Placement Services Office and the Distinguished Alumni Series, •7:00 P.M. and 10:00 P.M.-SAB FUm, "West 

•6: 
15 P.M. -Meeting, Circle K, Center for So· Side Story", Engineering Auditorium, cial Concerns Sponsored by Student Activities Board, 51.00 

•7:00 
P.M. -Presentation and Reception, •7:30 P.M. · Meeting, F.L.O.C. · Notre Dame First Bank Systems, Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Support Group, Center for Social Concerns Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, •8:00 P.M. -Exxon Lecture Theories, 


Open to Finance and Accountancy students Meaning and the Self: "Hume's Self', John R and MBA's wiith Finance or Accountancy con­Perry, Stanford University, Galvin Life centrations interested in career opportunities Sciences Auditorium, Sponsored by Exxon with First Bank Systems Lecture Series, College ofArts and Letters, and 
•7:00 
P.M.· Meeting, Hall Academic Commis­Department ofPhilosophy sioners, Little Theater, LaFortune Student •8:00 P.M. and 10:00 P.M. -Monthly Movie, Center, Sponsored by Student Government "Porky's", Regina Hall, Sponsored by Regina 

•7:00 
P.M. · Christian Fellowship Meeting, Hall, Sl.OO 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's Spaghetti with Italian Meat Sauce Roast Turkey with Dressing Breaded Pork Chop Baked Breaded Fish Broiled Haddock Almandine Cheese Enchiladas Tuna Muffin with Cheese Beefand Bean Chimichangas 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS •J thi11k lf!lll't•e had a.fi·w fmllllllllf." FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. ·}~m kiddi11,/ m11 d1·it·e !l'ifh IllIf l'!f!'·~ cln~ed." "An· ,1/1111 OKlo rlrin·!" ·Whats ati·ll' lwers!" •Yrm't•e had fm IIIIlCh to dri11k, let 111e drive." 
"Did !filii hat'!' fm IIIIIch to driok!" 
•Nobody cft·it·e.~ IllIf em· b11t 111e." "J'IIIJH'I.1l'l'f/{/.fi'll(•," 
DRINKING AND DRIVING


"An• lf!lll io all!/ Nliape to cirit'l'!" 
CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIR

"/'t•t• !ll'l'l'l'.fi•/t bl'ffe1:" 
~-------------, 
FREE' I I REGULAR RAx® I 
I WITH PURCHASE OF I I REGULAR FRIES AND.~ ..4,.1.-U~-------r'M"'f I MEDIUM DRINK I 
UJ::lU.~..J..UJ~~~~~LJ...II Our famous Rax roast beef, sliced I Ithin, piled high, and served on a a.esame-seed roll. 
IPleaM pre•nt coupon before ordering. One 
~~~:o:t:~ :,~:-eire~:.:~~~M~ 
, ..-----:-.-.M""4 1Rax Restaurants. l/20 cent calih redemption value. 
., l"'l985 Rax Resoaurants, Inc. 
II...+-I~~~:.;...J....L..::L..L..41 ­
~O~good
Itlaru J2/2S/8S. 
L--=ft----~'"-----="==-~'"-=--=ft==~'"-=--="==--=il LfD~-~!!!!!~...!!!~~~!!!~~~!.~~~2E~II!illlla;BIJ~CJ '-------------­
r-------------------------------------------------------------------­
_S~orts 

Wednesday, December 4, 1985-page 16 
Irish suffer first defeat of season as Alford sparks Indiana to 82-67 win 

ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Editor 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Steve Al­ford considered the debt repaid. 
The Indiana point guard figured he owed Notre Dame something after being held to just four points in the 74-63 victory of the Irish last year at the ACC. 
Alford's 32 points, many ofwhich 
came on strong moves to the basket, 
keyed the. 19th-ranked Hoosiers to 
an 82-67 win over Notre Dame last 
night before 17,161 fans at Assembly 
Hall. 
"What happened last year was definitely in the back of our minds tonight," said Alford afterward. "Especially for me." 
Alfor'd got Indiana out to a quick 2-0 lead with a 1 5-foot jumper as the Hoosiers took early control of the game. That lead would grow to 18-9 by midway through the first half. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame was struggling offensively, and things 
The ~cr/Pete Lllcba 
Notre Dame junior guard Scott Hicks makes his move against two Indiana defenders in last night's 82-67 Irish loss to the Hoosiers. jeffBlumbgives details oftbefirst Notre Dame loss oftbe season at right, while Eric Scheuermann writes about Indiana bead coach Bobby Knight's team's aggressive defense below. 
Intense Hoosier defense keys win over lOth-ranked Irish 
didn't get any better when David only minutes later. The junior, who Rivers took a fall early in the game played on the 1984 Olympic gold turning his right ankle -something medal basketball team under In­he later said bothered him the diana coach Bob Knight, got 12 of remainder ofthe game. his 16 first-half points in the final 
Notre Dame, 2-1, was having 5:25 of the initial period to give the trouble getting the shot it wanted Hoosiers a 41-31 halftime lead. against a tough Indiana defense (see "We didn't do our job on offense, related story), and so it began to. so they got ahead early," said Rivers. push the ball into the lane hap-"It was hard to come from behind." hazardly. Rivers paced the Notre Dame at­
"We forced a lot of situations we tack with 18 points, but turned the didn't need to force," said Notre ball over an uncharacteristic eight Dame coach Digger Phelps. "Indiana times. played well and got into an early Indiana remained in firm control groove. ofthe game, stretchingits lead to 49­
"Steve Alford is among the best 33 minutes into the second half on players in the country, especially Alford's 20-foot jumper from the left when he's on, and he was tonight." corner. 
The Irish were able to pull close at That was enough to send Phelps 22-2l.Joseph Price got a layup after calling for Notre Dame's second he stole Indiana's inbounds pass fol-timeout. lowing Donald Royal's strong The Irish, ranked lOth coming rebound goal of a Ken Barlow miss. into the game, would chip away at Price's basket capped a furious the lead for the next I 0 minutes un­eight-point run by Notre Dame. 
see IRISH, page 14
But Alford would take control 
Minnesc)ta officials decide Holtz will not coach Gopher's bowl game 
devote full time to his new head­
coaching position at Notre Dame. 
A three-member Minnesota 
search committee is looking for a 
new coach for the Gophers, and Giel 
said he is confident that a coach can 
be named before the bowl game. 
The athletic director said the uni­versity is grateful to Holtz for the job he has done in turning the Min­nesota football program around during the past two years. 
The Gophers are scheduled to play Clemson in Shreveport, La., Dec. 21 and Holtz had been prepared to coach the game, said Eddie White, assistant sports in­formation director for Notre Dame. 
"We don't want people to 11tink we pirated away their coach," said White. "We were all ready to let him coach their game." 
Holtz was named to replace Notre Dame coach Gerry Faust, who resigned Nov. 26, three days after a loss to Louisiana State made him the losingest coach in Notre Dame his­tory. Holtz, head coach at Minnesota the past two seasons, was hired the next day. 
Holtz talked individually with Notre Dame football players and as­sistant coaches yesterday in his first hectic week as head coach in one of college football's most prestigious and high-pressure programs. 
"I want to establish a line ofcom­munication between me and the players," Holtz said. "I want to put their minds at ease as far as the future is concerned, especially going into final exams. That's priority number one. 
"Number two is recruiting. We're going into that very hard," he said. 
Holtz will find, as did Faust, that Notre Dame no longer has first shot at the best Catholic high school players in the country, according to another former coach, Dan Devine. 
"There's no longer the feeder sys­tem where a product of a Catholic High School automatically goes to Notre Dame," said Devine, who coached at South Bend from 1975­1980. 
"You've got to go out and fight for those kids," said Devine who was in 
see HOLTZ, page 10 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
AsstswntSports Edttor 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-In the end 
It seemed the game was decided by 
defense. 
The Notre Dame basketball team never was able to get Into the flow of last night's 82-67 loss against In­diana, and much ofthe credit for that has to go to the disciplined Hoosier defense of Head Coach Bob Knight. 
"They worked real hard at what they did and they executed very well," said Irish captain Ken Barlow. "Coach Knight prepared them well." 
It certainly seems that way. Despite the high score, the game never seemed to open up for Notre Dame's David Rivers and its big men Inside. 

The Hoosiers held the Irish to 48­percent shooting for the game, and forced them into 21 turnovers. Rivers was harassed constantly by the Indiana guards, especially Winston Morgan, and committed a startling eight turnovers. 
Although he finished with a team­high 18 points on 8-of-15 shooting, Rivers and the rest ofthe Irish never seemed to be able to get untracked against the scrappy Hoosiers. 
"We had too many turnovers in key situations;:· said Irish Head Coach Digger Phelps. "That's what 
see DEFENSE, page 14 
Special to the Obsecver 
The University of Minnesota an­
nounced yesterday that Lou Holtz 
will not coach the Gophers in their 
Dec. 21 Independence Bowl game 
against Clemson. 
"The decision was made by the University of Minnesota," said Holtz, from South Bend, where he was preparing to take command of the University of Notre Dame football team. 
Holtz said he was told ofthe deci­sion yesterday afternoon by Min­nesota Athletic Director Paul Giel. 
"As I said before, I will honor whatever decision they would make. And if this is In the best inter­est of Minnesota, then I'm very pleased with it. I wish them well in the bowl game," Holtz said. 
"My main thought now Is how we can improve our chances to go south for Christmas and New Years in the future." 
In Minneapolis, Giel said he and Holtz decided it would be best for Holtz to be relieved of his coaching duties immediately so he could 
Holtz was lucky winner on"wheel of coaches" 
Hello again, everybody! 
Yesttrday's edition of The Observer reported the se­quence of events In last week's hiring of Lou Holtz. While those events actually occurred, they were merely a facade put on for the press..Nevertheless, "Irish Items" has learned the true story behind the Holtz hiring. 
Believe it or not, It happened on a special edition of "Wheel of Fortune." What follows Is the transcript ofthat show. 
ANNOUNCER: Just look at this studio filled with valuable coaches. All of them just waiting to be hired on "Wheel ofCoaches". And here's your host, Gene Corrigan. 
CORRIGAN: Thank you very much, Jack Clark. In the wake of the resignation ofour last champion, Gerry Faust, we have a nufllber of new contestants on hand. Let's meet them now, starting with Lou. 
LOU HOLTZ: Thanks, Gene. I'm Lou Holtz. I'm the foot­ball coach at Minnesota. I've always dreamed ofhaving the opportunity to be on this show, and I even know the theme song from my days in grade school. 
CORRIGAN: Gee, Lou, that's great. Standing next to Lou, let's see is that Dick? 
DICK yERMEIL: Yes, sir. I'm Dick Vermeil ofCBS Sports. I really don't want to be here, but somebodysaid I bought a house In this area so 1 figured I would drop by and see what it looks like. I used to coach football, but now I make oodles of money just for putting up with Brent Musburger on Sunday afternoons. 
CORRIGAN: Well, Dick, if you don't want to play I 

but I just signed a 1 0-year contract with another network.
Chuck 
Plus, the last time I tried to get on your show, you bumped me off for that Faust guy. I'm just going to have to pass this time.
Freeby 
CORRIGAN: Wait a minute, George. You just said the magic word. "Pass". Let's get Bill Walsh In here to spin the
Irish Items 
wheel. 

----------------------WALSH: Sorry, Gene. We're in the middle ofa divisional 
suppose you don't have to give the wheel a spin. Why don't we fill your spot withJim. is It Mora? 
JIM MORA: That's right, sir. 
CORRIGAN:Jim, could you tell us a little about yourself? 
MORA: Well, sir, I'm a head football coach for the Bal­timore Stars ofthe USFL. 
CORRIGAN: I'm sorry, Jim. I think you're looking for "Wha.t's My Line?". That's the neJtt studio down the hall. Let's talk to Terry. 
TERRY DONAHUE: Well, thanks but no thanks, Gene. I'd love, t:o stay, but it's kind ofcold here and my tan is already starting to fade. l'm sorry but I have to go back to UCLA. 
CORRIGAN: Well, I'm sorry to hear that Terry. Good luck to you. Why don't we bring In Howard? HOWARD SCHNEUENBERGER: Uh, yes, I'd like to buy a playt:r: 
CORRIGAN: What's that? 
SCHNELLENBERGER: I mean I'd like to buy a vowel. 
CORRIGAN: Sorry, Howard. That's against the rules and disqualifies you from our game. Hmmm. How about you, George? GEORGE WELSH: Aw, shucks.. I really wanted to play, 
race here. A few weeks ago I might have thought about it, but those Rams are folding up the tents so we're going to stick around here awhile. 
CORRIGAN: Gosh, I thought everybody wanted to spin the wheel, but so far we only have you, Lou. HOLTZ: Well, I'm not a genius and I'm not a miracle worker, but I would love to spin the wheel. 
CORRIGAN: Hold on there, Lou. We still have to get some other contestants. Let's look at some past champions. Ara? 
ARA PARSEGHIAN: No way, Gene. I'm not into that 
coaching stuffanymore. I'm like Dick. Coaching used to be 
nice, but ifCBS is going to pay me money just to sit around 
with Brent Musberger on Saturday afternoons, I'm not 
going to spin the wheel. 
CORRIGAN: Hey, whatever you say, Ara. You're still a 
champion to us. How about you, Dan? · 
DAN DEVINE: Well, Gene, it was so good to be back with ")o to the campus this fall to see the greatest student body In the world. But I remember what happened to me the last 
see WHEEL, page 10 





