-----------------------------------------------------·----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Student trustee -page 7 

By MARK PANKOWSKI  "Ifyou want me to tell Father Ted  
Copy Editor  ( Hesburgh) that, I already did," he  
said.  
Student Body President Bill Healy,  Lawrence  added  that  the  pos·  
facing a possible recall election and  sibillty ofbringing the issue ofparie·  
approximately  50  students  last  tals  to  the Board of Trustees this  
night, said although some perceive  spring is being discussed.  
his  working  with  University  ad·  The  issue  Healy  and  Lawrence  
ministrators  as  "kowtowing," it  is  spent most of the time addressing,  
the most effective way to achieve  however, was the attempt by Healy  
results.  and four other student leaders to dis·  
.  "I can say to the administration,  band the Student Senate.  
'You're  jerks, you're jerks, you're  
jerks.'  But  what  would  thai  ac·  Healy  acknowledged  that  the  
complish?" Healy said.  timing of the attempt to disband the  
llealy  said  University  President  senate "might have been politically  
!'ather  Theodore  Hesburgh  "had  bad," but he added, "you still have to  
met  with  the  past  student  body  go with what you think is right."  
president twice la.~t year."  Most of the questions and com·  
"I  have  access  to  ( Hesburgh ),"  ments from the students, several of  
Healy said. "... I can call him late at  whom  were  members  of student  
night and tell him what the student  government,  centered  around  
body is thinking."  which body would take the senate's  
lkaly, who along with Vice Prcsi·  place if it were to be disbanded.  
dent  Duane  Lawrence  answered  
questions for two hours at the open  "The people on (the senate) are  
forum, defended his letter run as a  not bad but it doesn't do its own  
full· page ad in The Observer Oct. 18.  work  because  it's  too  political,"  
Healy said the letter, addressed to  The Ot.crver/JU>IIn SmHealy said. "It's very difficult for the  
the student body and paid for with  body to get a consensus on anyth·  Student Body PresidentBill Healy and Vice  llh Hayes-Healy auditorium. Healy andLawrence bad  
student government funds, "was a  ing."  President Duane Lawrence answered questions  invited students to bring their "questions, com·  
defense of student government."  The  Hall  Presidents'  Council,  from  approximately 50 students last night at  ments or violent dissent" to tbe forum.  
"It was not a defense of myself,"  however, "is not a political body. It's  
he maintained. 'Inc letter was not in response to the petition being circulated  a group ofstudents that come toget· her to do projects," he said. "The HPC could address any  Student Senate rejects proposal 
seeldng a recall election, Healy said.  issues that the senate has addressed  
'llle issues addressed in the letter "were concerns that students were bringing to us," he said.  this year," said Healy. Lawrence added that the HPC would be "the voice of the stu·  to ask HPC to review referendum  
"It was not a campaign letter," he  dents."  By CHRIS BEDNARSKI  senate voted nine to seven to dis·  Referring to  the HPC's dcci·  
said.  Several students said the HPC did  SeniorStaffReporter  band.  sion to let students decide the  
The  letter  was  run  because  not represent students equally. Off·  Many  senate  members  said  fate  of  the  senate,  Parliamcn·  
"student government  was  . . . not  campus  students  and  students  in  The Student Senate last night  they believe the senate is inef·  tarian Brian Holst said, ''I'm not  
getting  heard,"  Healy  said.  "You  large dorms such as Grace Hall each  rejected a resolution aimed at en·  fective but should remain intact.  sure everyone on the HPC knew  
have to pay to get the word out."  have one member on the HPC, as  ding the attempt to disband the  "Granted  there  are  a  lot of  what was going on.''  
Lawrence,  who  also  would  be  much  representation  as  smaller  senate  and  defeated  another  flaws here," said Senator Steve  HPC Chairman Kevin Howard  
recalled with Healy if the petition is  dorms, they said.  resolution  that  asked  Student  Taeyaerts.  "I  think  we  should  argued, "I respect the HPC more  
successful and two-thirds of those  Healy responded by saying "One  Body  President  Bill  Healy  to  work within the structure here. I  than any other body on campus  
voting support the referendum, said  senator represents six dorms. And  apologize to students for using  don't sec it doing any good to dis·  and I think they knew what they  
he  always supports  Healy's  state·  when  you  represent  all  those  student government  money  to  band it," he said.  were voting for."  
ments.  people, are you going to go back to  pay for an advertisement explain·  SenatorJim Hagan said Student  Howard said  he wanted  the  
Healy  and  Lawrence  also  your  constituents  and  get  their  ing his actions as president.  Body President  Bill  Healy and  vote to come before the student  
answered  students'  questions  on  opinions?"  The senate rejected a proposal  Vice President Duane: Lawrence  body. "Let the people decide," he  
what action student government is  Astudent then asked whether hall  by Senator K.C. Culum that asked  had  not  provided  the  proper  said.  
taking on the Issue of parietals viola·  presidents  go  back  to  their  con·  the Hall President's Council to  leadership needed to make the  In  a  separate  resolution,  
lions.  stituents seeking their input.  reconsider  a  resolution  they  senate effective.  Culum  challenged  Healy  for  
"I  think  the  punishments  are  "Hell, yes," answered HPC Chair·  passed that put the question of  In defending the  purpose of  spending  $300  of  student  
ridiculous," Healy said, referring to  man Kevin Howard, who was sitting  disbanding the senate before  a  the senate, Hagan said, "You have  government  money  for  an  ad·  
two students suspended from the: University this semester for a parie·  in the audience. "Ifthey didn't, they would be extremely remiss in their  student vote. In a non-binding straw poll, the  to have a body that cultivates stu· dent opinion."  see SENATE, page 3  
tals violation.  duties."  

Anti-abortion activist defends his controversial methods 

By CHRIS SKORCZ 
~nlor StaffReporter 
IJeclaring that we have "lost a sense of the value of man," pro·life activist joseph Scheidler in a lecture last night emphasized the need for continued anti-abortion activities and defended his methods that many people:, including some: of his fellow pro·llfe activists, have: found con· troversial. 
"I've always been an activist. I have seen an enormous growth of concern for the abortion conflict and feel that we must teach to anyone who will listen," Scheidler told a crowd in the auditorium ofthe Memorial Library. 
"l believe In the words of Jesus that whatever we do to the least of our brothers, that we do unto him. And I also believe that we are now strong enough to shut down a por· lion of the abortion Industry," he said. 
Scheidler said that in order to shut down the industry, "we have to fol­low people around. Some people say that we are not nice, but abortionists are not nice people. They are mur· derers, not doctors, for they do not heal anyone. 
"If you don't try it, it won't hap· pen," he said. "The Lord wants us to 

do it because he can't do it without 
us. That is not how he works for he 
won't force the human will." 
A major obstacle that the pro-life 
movement must overcome is the 
1973 Supreme Court decision in tJ,e 
Roe vs. Wade case, according to 
Scheidler. Claiming that the 
Supreme Court was "wrong in 
saying that 'thou may kill,' " Scheid· 
ler insisted that the mere fact that 
such a decision has become law 
does not make it right. ' "Some laws must be disobeyed. 
You are morally bound to disobey 
such a law," Scheidler said. 
And it is this moral obligation to 
disobey such laws that Scheidler cited as the primary reason for the pro-life movement's vehement ef. forts to remove such pro-choice political figures as Senator Bob Pack· wood of Oregon and former con· gresswoman Geraldine Ferraro. 
"Governments are for people and ifyou don't care about life at its ear· liest stages, if you don't care about people, you should not be in govern· ment," he said. 
Scheidler provided several reasons for the tremendous "popularity" ofabortions, especially since the famous Roe vs. Wade deci­sion. According to him, one of the primary reasons for the large num· bers of abortions being performed today is a "playboy philosophy" that is present among today's young men. 
Scheidler explained this philosophy as one in which "women are seen as objects, things, pieces of meat. And this attitude has had a devastating effect on our young men. These young men tend to demean women and it is dreadfully harmful." 
Another reason given by Scheid· ler for the prevalence: of abortions nationwide is the financial pressure felt by many medical school stu· dents who sometimes incur debts 
~ABORTION, page 3 


--------------~-------------------. 
The Observer Thursday, October 31, 1985-page 2 
In Brief 
The Alumni-Senior Club did not open as 
planned last night. Manager Bryan Dedrick refused to comment on the reasons for the closing of the club. Dedrick said the club would be open tonight for the scheduled Halloween party. -The Obseroer 
Of Interest 
Guest artists Robin Rice, baritone, and Lee Thompson, pianist, will appear in recital tonight at 8 in the little Theater of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. The program will include songs by Ives and Debussy, and will feature a complete performance of Schumann's "Dichterliebe." The two artists will also hold a class from 1 to 4 p.m. tomorrow in the little Theater. Both events are free and open to the public. -Tbe Obseroer 
The Hibernian Lecture sponsored by the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Cat­holicism will be held tomorrow afternoon in the lounge of the Memorial library. Professor Lawrence McCaffrey ofthe department ofhistory, Loyola University will speak on "Fictional Images ofIrish­America." Admission is free.-Tbe Obseroer 
The publisher ofUSA Today, Cathleen Black, 
will be executive-in-residence tomorrow at Saint Mary's. Black will address the Saint Mary's Business Associates at 12:30 p.m., and speak in an advertising class at 1:15. An open forum will be held from 3 to 3:45p.m. in Stapleton Lounge ofLeMans Hall. The public is invited to attend at no charge. Black will end her visit with a press conference and a reception in Haggar College Center. -Tbe Obseroer 
.. John Cougar Mellencamp will appear in con­
cert at the ACC Nov. 16. Tickets go on sale at the Gate 10 Box Office of the ACC tomorrow at 9 a.m. All seats are reserved and will cost $14.50. No lines will be allowed to form before 6 a.m. At 7 a.m., a lottery for positions in line will be held. This lottery will be only for a position in line and not for the tickets. -Tbe Obseroer 
The Nazz may be a thing of the past, but its spirit continues tomorrow night in Chautauqua Ballroom in LaFortune Student Center from 9 to 11 when the Student Activities Board presentsJohn Kennedy along with New Age Mothers and the American Dream -a four-piece bluegrass band. These entertainers will share their musi­cal abilities with all. Admission is free. -The Obseroer 
An organizational meeting of the Saint Mary's Society for Entrepreneurship and New Venture was held yesterday. For more information, contact Chris Brufke at 277-1943.-Tbe Ob­
server 
A mandatory AIESEC meeting will be held 
today for those Interested in applying for traineeships. The meeting will be from 6 to 7:30p.m. in the tower room in LeMans.-Tbe Obser­ver 
It's trick or treat time and youngsters who visit their neighborhoods tonight can have their goodies X-rayed for tam­pering. They can go from 6~0 to 8:30p.m. to the radiology depart­ments ofeither SaintJoseph Hospital of Mishawaka or SaintJoseph's Medical Center in South Bend for the free service, or from 6 to 8 p.m. at Direct Care, the immediate care facility in University Commons shopping area. Direct Care is a joint venture of the two health care facilities. -Tbe Obseroer 
Weather 
Witches may want to don 
longjohns and raincoats when they hop on their broomsticks tonight. A 60 percent chance of rain tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight in the mid to upper 40s. High tomorrow in the upper 50s to low 60s. -AP 


Design Editor........................llndi. Schnuck Design Assistant..................Aller Kroeger Layout Staff........................ Cathy Logsdon 
Jrannr Lambkr Typeseners .................... Becky Gunderman 
Chuck Papandrea Slotman ........................... Mark McLaughlin News Editor........................ Mary Heilmann Copy Editor................................ Miriam HiU Sports Copy Editor......... Dennis Corrigan Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Mary Ellen Har­rington 
lbe Observer ( l 'SPS ~99 l-~000) is published Monday through Frida); except during exam and vu·ation per1od!'l.lbt Observrr is published by the studentsofthe l 'r;siversity of Notre Dame and ~ami Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased for SW per )·ear ( SlO per semester) hy writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
~6~~6 
Thr Observer is a member of lbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are rc:srrvc:d 
Viewpoint Layout................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout............... Marirl Labrador Daily Quote ............................ Tom Darrow Typtst .......................................... CoUeen Foy ND Day Editor................... Sharon Emmitr SMC Day Editor................. MaryJean Sully Ad Design .................. Mary Carol Creadon . Joan Wrappe Peter Georges Photographer .................... Patty Schneider Justin Smith 
Alcohol awareness must increase 
"Heading to Senior Bar tonight?" 
"Yeah, and after that there's a party at Campus View." "I'm going to get ripped this weekend!" "We'II get some seniors to make a beer run." 
Everyone at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's has heard sentences like these before. Most have spoken them in one version or another. What clearer signals are there that another weekend is about to begin? 
To most students, such words are harmless descrip­tions ofa night's activities, and at times, the products of a week full ofstress. 
But to others, these words take on a different meaning. They become not an occasional indulgence, but a routine. Somewhere along the line they stop being fun, and become compulsion. 
Such is the origin ofthe student alcoholic. 
The problem is more widespread than many would like to believe. Statistics es­timate that one in every 12 
Americans is an alcoholic, awareness week scheduled and the Irish-Catholic for February. Events will in­nature of Notre Dame only clude lectures, discussions compounds the problem. A and films on alcohol aware­1980 survey conducted at ness and rehabilition, drunk Saint Mary's showed that 15 driving and the physiologi­percent of its students were cal effects of drinking. A heavy drinkers. lecture will be given at 
At Notre Dame, the ad­Senior Bar and students at ministration has long various levels of intoxica­recognized that alcoholism tion will be given sample is a very real and widespread breathalyzer tests. problem. But the way the ad­At Saint Mary's, a student ministration has dealt with survey on alcohol use was this problem has been taken last year and its results anything but effective. will be announced Monday. 
Next week is Alcohol

Characteristically, the 1'14~K tuEIMHOLT 
University's main solution is punishment. According to du Lac, intoxication will result in anything from dismis­sal to suspensions, fines, or a mere referral to Psyc­hological Services. Such an arbitrary system does little 
more than confuse and alienate students and skirts the problem. 
In May 1984, the University took a major step by im­plementing a new alcohol policy. The campus went dry (except in an' alcoholic's prime drinking hideout -his own room). Rules were tightened and threats of an even dryer campus made. 
But, a year and a half later, the policy's most impor­tant part, a program ofalcohol awareness, has yet to be developed. Without such a program, the policy has caused a lot grieffor ordinary students while doinglittle for alcoholics, whom it was meant to help. 
In the absence ofdecisive action from the University, however, students finally have begun to take charge. According to Mark H., a recovered alcoholic who is spearheading alcohol awareness efforts on campus, 

Mary Healy 
Accent Editor 
"The alcohol policy was done with good intentions but I don't think it's achieving the purpose it set out to ac­hieve. The University hasn't followed through." 
Recently Mark submitted a proposal to the Hall Presi­dents' Council asking that it support his idea to offer a course at Notre Dame on addictions, a course he believes is a crucial step toward alcohol awareness. He is planning petitions to be circulated in the dorms. 
Even student government has taken action by creat­ing the position of Alcohol Commissioner. This year's 
commissioner, Fifi Paraiso, 
is organizing an alcohol 
IO·")I Awareness Week at the Col­

lege. Events will include talks on the history of drinking at Satnt Mary's, the per­sonal story ofa recovering alcoholic, and the benefits of endorphins or "natural highs." 
Alcoholics Anonymous meetings are being held on both campuses. At the meetings, a recovered alcoholic relates his or her personal story, followed by an open discussion. 
An open AA meeting (for anyone interested in learn­ing more about alcoholism) was held in Dillon Hall last month and attended by at least 15 students. Another, geared to women, will be held Monday at 7 p.m. in Breen-Phillips. 
Aclosed AA meeting, for those who believe they may have an alcohol problem, will be held Tuesday night at 
7:45 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Alcohol abuse on campus is a problem which previously has been met with bumbling ineptitude. But as students face it head on with determination and creativity, the result will be a real improvement in the heart ofthe problem. 

:***************************************************** 
~Transfers :Now that all the welcomes have died down, and you're: 
* 
returning to N.D, we would like you to know that we are still very  :  
:  anxious to help out witrrany problems.  Please feel free to call us  :  
:  or stop by 2nd floor LaFortune if you need help.  :  
:  Mike Huber-Transfer Club President: (o)239-7668, 283-5389  :  
:  Bill Healy-Student Body President: (o)239-6111 ,283-1601.  :  

: *Best Wishes as you continue your first semester! (Transfer Club : : T-Shirts on sale in Student Government Offices!l : 
********************************************** *******• 
.,--------------------~------------------~--~~-------­
The Observer Thursday, October 31, 1985-page 3 
South Africans elect party stressing refortn 

AAocJakd Preu 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa ­The National Party, putting its race reform measures on the line with white voters in five special par­liamentary elections, handily won one race yesterday, narrowly defeated an ultra-rightist In another and lost a third, unofficial returns showed. 
Results were not In from two con­servative farming communities. 
The elections were viewed as a gauge of white feeling toward the government's limited moves away from apartheid after 14 months of black riots and a deepening economic crisis. 
Meanwhile, police said at least seven blacks were killed yesterday and late Tuesday in violence believed linked to unrest against apartheid, South Africa's system of enforced racial separation. 
In Sasolburg, south of Johannes­burg, an ultra-right candidate, Louis Stolberg of the Reformed National Party, defeated the National Party candidate by 367 votes out of nearly 13,000 cast. 
Stolberg's victory was the first 
Principle is Important 
Parietals are a positive influence on the residentiality of Notre Dame and distinguish it from other universities. Unfortunately, the severe penalty inflicted upon students who violate this rule also distinguishes Notre Dame. 
The punishment of suspension or dismissal regardless of circumstances contradicts the Catholic nature of the University. Removing a student from Notre Dame when there is no moral issue in question is detrimental to both the students and our community. When the punishment is so unforgiving that it denies the Notre Dame and Christian ideals of compassion for one's fellow man in a time of real need, something is wrong with the principle. 
This has been the case recently and will continue to blemish the character of the school unless you, the parents, students and faculty of the University, Please take action against this unjust penalty. take the time to write Vice President of Student Affairs Father David Tyson to show your displeasure with this punishment. Don't allow the opportunity to pass -act now. 
Vice President of Student Affairs Father David Tyson c/o OBUD LaFortune Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
. 'l 

but What About the People? 
parliamentary seat won by his party since it broke from the National Party 1 6 years ago when the Nationalists suggested allowing ra­cial integration on the country's ath­letic fields. 
One National Party victory came in Port Natal, near Durban, where Home Minister Stoffel Botha won easily, as expected. 
The second win was in Springs, a depressed blue-collar town east of 
Johannesburg  that  was  until  now  
solidly Nationalist.  
The  government's  candidate,  

former journalist P.W. Coetzer defeated the Conservative Party can­didate by only 749 votes out of nearly 10,000 cast. 
Results were not In from Beth­lehem and Vryburg, both farm com­munities. 
The balloting was to fill midterm vacancies In the whites-only cham­ber, which has final say In the three­chamber Parliament. 
Whites, people of mixed-race and Asians meet separately In the Parlia­ment. Blacks have no vote and no chamber. 
Senate 
continuedfrom page I 
vertlsement explaining what Healy's administration has accomplished that appeared in last week's Obser­ver. 
The resolution demanded that Healy refund the money and make a formal apology to the senate and stu­dent body. 
The resolution was defeated 1 1-4. 
"I do question was It serving stu­dent government or Bill Healy the student. Most students said that It's serving Bill Healy," Culum said. 
But Judicial Council Coordinator Karen Ingwersen disagreed with this view. "I think the letter told students what student government Is doing," Ingwersen said. 
Senator Chris Abood said he thought Healy had ev~ry right to spend the money and that the senate could not force him to refund it. 
In other business, the senate un­animously passed a resolution sponsored by Culum requesting the administration to clarify its rul~s regarding where and when a student can be punished. 
The resolution also expressed the senate's dissatisfaction with the ad­ministration's treatment of Dillon Hall residents who sponsored a tall­gater In Ann Arbor, Mich. 
"When you read du Lac It's v~ry vague," said Culum. "We want parameters made as to when we will be made accountable. 
"I'm not saying wh~ther or not Dillon Hall should have been punished. I'm not questiong th~ right ofthe administration to punish. I want some parameters defined," Culum added. 
Abortion 
continuedfrom page I 
up to It00,000 trying to pay for their education. 
It is a need to pay off such debts that drives some medical students into the abortion industry, said Scheidler. In this industry, "abortionists can make as much as S250,000 In their first year and can pay off their debts quickly." 
Scheidler does see the near future 
with a genuine sense of optimism. 
Citing the Increasing number of 
closed abortion clinics, fearful, em­
barrassed doctors, and effective 
picketing measures, Scheidler 
declared, "I think we are going to 
win this thing. We are going to whittle away at that law which even Justice Sandra Day O'Connor has

Clip and Post 
said is 'on a collision course with It·

•paid for by the Hall Presidents' Council 
self.' 

Thursday, October 31, 1985-page 4
The Observer 
Soviet journalists to conduct Reagan interview today 
WASHINGTON President Reagan, in a pre-summit gesture to the Soviet Union, will be questioned today by four journalists from Mos­cow in the first interview granted by an American president to the Soviet press in nearly a quarter ofa century. 
j
The session, at 2 p.m. EST in the Oval Office, is "a unique and historic opponunity for the president to communicate directly with the people of the Soviet Union," said White House spokesman Larry Speakes. "We hope it is a sign of a new and more open information policy on the part of the Soviet Union." 
Shooting in mall kills 2 
AIII!Odated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Pa. -A woman in 
army fatigues and black boots 
opened fire with a semiautomatic 
rifle in a crowded shopping mall yes­
terday, killing a man and a 4-year-old 
boy, and wounding eight others 
before she was subdued by a 
passerby, police said. 
The 28-year-old woman was taken 
into custody following the 4 p.m. 
rampage at the Springfield Mall in 
Delaware County, said Springfield 
Township Police Chief George Hill. 
Police then closed the shopping 
center. 
Police had dealt with the woman 
before because of "emotional 
problems," said John McKenna of 
the Delaware County district attor­
ney's office. Neither he nor Hill 
would identify her. 
The woman got out of her car at 
an entrance to the mall and began 
shooting the .22-caliber rifle at a 
woman using an automatic bank 
machine, but missed her, Hill said. 
"Then she began firing at 
everybody and anybody who got in 
her path," he said. 
A 4-year-old boy near the mall 
entrance was shot fatally, Hill said. 
She then moved inside the mall, 
turning and firing as she worked her 
way through the crowded main 
walkway, firing more than 15 shots 
in less than five minutes, Hill said. 
"The woman went on a random 
shooting rampage until she was 
wrestled to the ground by a college 
student" outside a shoe store, he 
said. 
Jack Laufer, 24, of Medina, 
"grabbed her from behind, wrestled 
her to the ground and kicked the 
rifle away," Hill said. 
She still had several rounds in the 
rifle when the student jumped her, 
he said. 
It was not known immediately 
where the 40-year-old man was 
slain. 
The victims, who ranged in age 
from 2 to 67, were taken to six 
hospitals. 

1117 E. South lend Aft. Iouth lend, lndlena ~ (21tt 272-4135 
No restrictions have been imposed on the Soviets' questions, although they are likely to focus on Reagan's summit Nov. 19-20 with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in Geneva and superpower relations, Speakes .said. He said the United States has not asked to review in ad­vance what will be published. 
"They will repon it as they wish to repon it," he said. Likewise, he said there was no requirement for the Soviets to publish the full text of the questions and answers. 
"We think a sufficient amount of the interview will be conveyed," Speakes said. "We have no reserva­tions about the matter." He said the material probably will be published first on Sunday in the Soviet govern­ment newspaper Izvestia, followed by the release of a complete transcript by the White House. 
In other developments related to the summit: 
•It 
was announced that Reagan will address a joint session of Congress at 9 p.m. EST on Nov. 21, immediately upon his return from Geneva. On his way back to Was­hington, Reagan will stop off for two hours in Brussels to report to allied leaders at NATO headquarters on the summit. 

•Reagan 
said he was "personally hopeful'' and "striving" to present a counteroffer -before the summit -to the recent arms proposal from Mos­cow, which calls for a 50 percent reduction in strategic nuclear 



FOR ALL YOUR EYE CARE NEEDS­
COMPLETE EXAMS 
contacts, glasses 
ND/SMC students, 
1 

F acuity and Staff Show Your I.D. and Receive 
20 ·/.OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
Excluding Specials 

ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 

1........... 1141,..... 277-1111 234-2400 South ol u.s. 23 u......Shoppjng Gontor 

An independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­plications for the following position: 
• CopyChief 
-responsible for training all copy editors and maintaining consistent style throughout the newspaper 
Resumes and personal statements ara due to Sarah or Amy Thursday, Oct. 31 at 5 p.m. 
For more information, call The Observer at 239-5313 
O.C.S.CAN HELP 
YOU BRING OUT THE LEADER IN YOU. 
Army Officer Candidate School (O.CS.) is a 14~week challenge that will make you dig deep inside yourself for mental and physical toughness 
It isn't easy. But you '11 discover what's inside you. You'll know you have what it takes to lead. You'll come out a trim, fit commissioned officer in the Army, ready to exercise leadership skills civilian companies put a pre~ m1umon. 
If you're about to get your degree and you're looking for the right chal~ lenge, look into O.C.S. 
Call your Army Recruiter. 
SERGEANT LANE 234-4187 
L...----ARM~ BE ALLYOU CAN BE. _ _____. 
weapons. In an interview with Britain's BBC radio, Reagan said the Soviet proposal contains both "seeds to nurture" as well as "some thing that we believe are so disad­vantageous to us that they should be negotiated and some changes made." 
•Reagan, asked by the BBC what he hoped to accomplish in the sum­mit, said, "I think that the most that we could get out is if we could eliminate some ofthe paranoia, ifwe could reduce the hostility, the suspicion that keeps our two countries particularly . . . at odds with each other." 
Speakes said the journalists would have about a half hour with Reagan. Their questions will be posed to Reagan in Russian, and translated into English by an interpreter. Reagan's replies will not be translated into Russian on the spot because ofthe journalists' fluency in English, Speakes said. 
The White House will provide the Soviets with a Russian language translation of the interview, Speakes said. 
"We will certainly be able to read their newspaper to see if it is published in its entirety and see if the translation agrees with our trans­lation," Speakes added. 
He said the Soviets have not replied yet to a longstanding U.S. proposal for Reagan to appear on Soviet television. 


SATURDAY, November 2, 1985 8:00PM Washington Ha II University of Notre Dame 
a: 

( ·Iafortune record storeJ Record Connection and Nightwinds 
f 

sponsored by AROUND THE co~ 

The Observer Thursday, October 31, 1985-page 5 


Call

Kegs 
For 

Available Specials 
ironwood liquors 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 
JAMES 0 DETTLING 12191272·7144 
Class of'61 
e --\t
~ ... 
j'

I 
Smile for Emil 
Emtl Hofman, dean oftbe Freshman Year of Studies, organizes Notre Damefreshmen for a class picture at the football stadium. A copy of the 
Sunshine Prot~~otions Presents 
JOHN COUGAR 
MELLENCAMP THE SCARECROW TOUR 
Saturday, November 16 8:00pm Notre Dame A~C. C. AU seats reserved: $14.50 Tickets on sale tomorrow 

picture wtll be sent to freshman Kevin Hurley in 
Massachusetts, where be is recovering after being 
bit by a car in September. 
Democrats criticize Reagan's SS cuts 

WASHINGTON -Congressional Democrats charged yesterday that President Reagan's attempt to cut 17,000 positions from Social Security's staff by 1990 is a back­door effort to erode service and un­dermine support for the program. 
Several senators and representatives held a news con­ference to release copies of internal Social Security documents discuss­ing possible cutbacks in service. 
"It's all a very clevergame to build up public antipathy and resentment of the program," said Sen. Paul Sarbanes of Maryland, where offi­cials are worried acutely about a potential loss of thousands of jobs at the Social Security Administration headquarters in Baltimore. 
The Reagan administration has acknowledged previously it wants I to eliminate 17,000 of Social , Security's 79,600 jobs by 1990 through attrition. But spokesman James Brown said yesterday, "There is absolutely no list of offices to be closed or combined." 
No position will be eliminated "if it would reduce the level of service we give to the public," he said. 
Twenty-four members of the House, including two Republicans, Virginia Smith of Nebraska and Clarence MillerofOhio, signed a let­ter urging colleagues to accept a Senate appropriations rider that would bar Social Security from cut­ting 1,000 jobs or closing offices in fiscal 1986. 
Sen. Lawton Chiles, D·Fla., the aut­hor with Sarbanes of that prohibi­tion, said lines at the nation's 1,300 Social Security offices already are "too long" and any plan for further cutbacks Is "reprehensible." 
Social Security has already reduced Its staff by the equivalent of 7,000 fuU-tlme workers In the past four years. 
An Aug. 29, 198S, a memo by Louis Enoff, deputy Social Security commissioner for programs and policy, said clerks spend the: largest amount of time helping people piece together all the information needed to get a retirement benefit. 

The Observer Thursday, October 31, 1985-page 6 


some sundOY  'I! am? Erasmus Books i rqa• r 1027 E. Wayne -~ " Tues ·Sun:_ noon. 6 ...--1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy Und a -•of prlat boob bo••lat. -ld, •ean:laed  


·' G~~ 
k....~
Gleaming in tbe night, tbe space shuttle seven-day mission. 
Challenger sits on launch pad 39a, ready for its 
~ 20% Discount 
Security tight for Ghandi's 
•
anniversary 
Assoclated Press 
NEW DELHI, India Sharpshooters in trees will help guard Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi when he addresses a rally expected to number a million people today, the anniversary ofhis mother's assas­sination. 
Angry Sikh militants in Punjab called a counterrally to glorify her slain Sikh assassin as a martyr. 
Elaborate security plans, includ­ing helicopters, were laid out yester­day for the New Delhi rally honoring Indira Gandhi, Rajiv's mother and predecessor. 
"Security is so tight that even birds will not reach him (Gandhi)," the Statesman newspaper reported. 
lbroughout the capital, more than 35,000 police and security troops were posted to prevent Sikh terrorist attacks on the first anniver­sary of the day when Gandhi's own security guards shot her on the gar­den path of her residential com­pound. 
Speakers at the rally will include Mother Teresa ofCalcutta, winner of the 1979 Nobel Peace Prize for working with slumdwellers. 
One Sikh guard, Satwant Singh, is 
on trial for murder in Mrs. G;mdhi's 
death. Two other Sikhs are charged 
with conspiracy. The government 
says a second Sikh gunman, Beant 
Singh, was killed at the scene by 
police. 
The government says the prime 
minister was killed to avenge her or­
dering the army attack on the Gol­
den Temple in Amritsar in June 
1984 to root out Sikh terrorists. 
More than 1,200 people died during 
the assault. 
In Sikh-dominated Punjab: 
security forces were bolstered as 
militants put up hundreds ofposters 
of Beant Singh and other slain ex­
tremists and set a rally for today in 
the Golden Temple, the holiest 
shrine of the Sikh religion. 
Activists demanding a separate 
Sikh nation called for a "Beant Singh 
Martyr's Day Rally," hailing him as 
"the man who saved the falling tur­
bans ofthe Sikhs ... the Sikh nation's 
leading warrior." 
India has 13 million Sikhs, who 
make up 2 percent ofits 750 million 
population. Most Sikhs want greater 
autonomy for their state. 

---------.a.~•=-....&.---­
An independent student newspaper serving 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­
plications for the following position: 
--Ih-e-0-bse--~~­
• Day Editor 
Questions should be directed to Doug Hasler. 
For more information, call The Observer at 239-531:J 


Horror Story 
Marathon 
October 31} 8-1 2AM at the South Dining Ha11. Scary stories read by your favorite ce 1 ebs} inc 1 udi ng 
·Fr. Tyson}Dr.Sexton}and Fr. Beauchamp. Keep an eye out for your beloved rectors and rectresses. 
All Donations go to UNITED WAY!! 
N.D.-S.M.C. Students 

niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 

DISCOUNT RECORDS & TAPES 
CASH PAID FOR LP's•TAPES.CD's 


POSTERS 
U2 David Bowie REM John Cougar Sting Bob Marley Police James Dean Beatles Run DMC Billy Idol 

Even More Excitement at Tracks starting Nov.8 
10to 9dally 
1631 E. Edisor, 11 to 8 Sunday South Bend 
INDIANA'S FINEST DISCOUNT RECORD STORE 
~i~~~_()__l_._Jl__t__________________
Th-ur-sd-ay_,o_c_tob-er_3_1,_19-85--p-ag--e7 
Board stepping toward 
increased effectiveness 
Twice a year a group of SO people visits Notre Dame. This is the University's Board ofTrustees, the school's ultimate governing body. Until now students have had only a muffled voice on this board. 
Soon the student voice well may be amplified. Two ofthe board's four commit­tees . the university relations and academic and faculty affairs committees -are considering admitting student members. Because the committee is the backbone of the board, student committee members would allow the student body to par­ticipate meaningfully in governing the University. From their seats on these two committees, students would have potential for substantial input to the board. 
Anthony Earley, chairman of the student affairs committee, said students al­ready occupy seats on his committee. But these "student c~mmittee ~ember~," to this date, have been permitted to attend only select meetmgs ofthetr commtt­tee. 
It is doubtful a student will occupy a seat on the investment committee in the near future. Last week Robert Wilmouth, chairman ofthis committee, said such a position would provide more of a learning experi~n.ce for t?e student member than a source of positive input to the board. By htdmg behmd such an excuse, Wilmouth is denying the intelligence of Notre Dame students and ignoring the other merits ofa student committee member. 
The ad hoc committee on South African investments demonstrates that stu­dents are knowledgeable on investment issues and are able to deal with them responsibly. On controversial issues such as tuition increases and University in­vestments in South Africa, the trustees are often viewed as villains. The presence ofa student on the Investment committee would help defuse such an attitude and untangle the lines ofcommunication between the students and what they view as the powers that be. 
To be as an effective body as possible the board needs to seek out all perspectives of Notre Dame. Because students are the main focus of the Univer­sity, their viewpoint must not be overlooked or_stifled. . .. 
Establishing student committee members wtth full commtttee prtvtleges and responsibilities would be a giant step toward effective and pro~er student par­ticipation in governing their university. But ifstudents are permttted to serve on the hoard's individual committees, why not on the full board? 
The trustees argued that a student trustee with full voting rights and pri~ileges would not be as effective as student committee members. Many have satd that most of the board's decisions arc determined by consensus, not by actual votes, and that most of the actual work of the board is doric within the committees. 
Given such an organizational structure, a student on the board would not hinder its work. On the contrary, the establishment of a student trustee would symbolize the University's acknowledgement of the value and necessity of stu­dents in attaining a complete view of the University. 
In looking at the: results of last week's trustee meeting it is obviou~ the board wants student participation in the governing process. Student commtttee mem­bers would be a first step toward unmuzzling the student voice on the board. The final step must provide a voice in which a student speaks clearly as a full trustee. 

I Jl5TCAN7 

u f)N, ~itO<SCk l'KOU~ IN~ WA!.-~COJTINI.E iO ~ C~t>.~L£S MID DIANA a.1 ~~ u.s. VISrr..... ,'' 
Filial appreciation, love develop from maturity 
In December of 1967 I lost my position as only son. At the time I did not know what my new position entailed, and although I doubt that 1fully understand the position now, it is becoming clearer what it means to have a brother. 
The 18 years since that December day have been filled with many things inherent to the family situation: name-calling, tattle-taling, fighting and competing. 
johnA. Mennell guest column 
The name-calling continues, though often filled with more adult terms, and rarely meant as seriously or with the same criticism that it had in earlier years. The tattle-taling has changed to the telling oftall tales, and where I often felt cheated by the tattle-taling, I am now baffled by the ingenious tales. The physi­cal fighting has ended, probably to my advantage, as lifting for me consists of moving my dining hall tray to the conveyor belt ofthe South Dining Hall but for him it is weights. 
The competition through the years has been sometimes fun and often quite intense. As children we both played basketball and baseball. We both had some talent and were solid contributors to our respective teams. While we never played on the same team or in the same league, I often felt the need to better the performance of my younger brother. I did not want to be shown up. 
The competition followed us into the clas­sroom where we were both good students, but I never wanted my brother to get better grades than I did. I was determined to go to Notre Dame and knew I needed good grades to get here. Grades came easily for me in high school and my goal was realized. 
My brother did not have the luck with grades that I did in my first years of high school, nor did he have my goals. Everyone who ever talked to him realized that he was intelligent, but his creative mind just was not excited by the thrill of trigonometric calcula­tions. He may have felt the need to compete with the marks ofhis.older brother and sister, and has shown that he can. 
The competition went beyond the field and the classroom as sibling rivalries often do. I had troubles sometimes accepting his suc­cesses; instead viewing them as shortcomings of my own. He had different goals which would lead to successes that I could never ex­perience for myself. 
As we have grown older our interests have diversified and we have started doing things 
Garry Trudeau 

I TfK)()(jff(I
CAse5, Of!CKS IA/IlH EJII,ff 

YtAH,BIJT CJUTRA6f{)(J5/
5AM&He/l&.

8tLJ£VE 7H& I HEAR 
/NIT/Alb (J-.1 mEIR 
IWN'T

/.VAS 7H& ONL-Y
f)£Af)-Ht.Af)5 YW,MAN. 
CITY, 
WGOT A 

M£3 NEITHER.! 
-The Observer 

f)U[)f;S tullH lRJ&f­
~~ 

that are more difficult to compare. My brother began running and I took to my own activities. 
While I did run cross-country in seventh grade, I realized that it was not an activity for me. I often finished In the top ten, but rarely were there more than 15 people In the race. 
My brother began running after my early retirement but at a younger age than my start. He did well, but he did not often win, regularly beaten by his good friend from across the street. Even in junior high school when when two runners on his team consis­tently had better times than my brother, he continued working hard at his running. Heap­peared the third best runner but was never discouraged. He realized the merits ofwhat he had done better than I had when I ran, and better than winning the races, worked harder to become a winner. 
I do not think I have ever worked as hard at anything as he has at running. Not many people have worked that hard at anything, and I wish 1 could say I had. While I have envied his determination, I also realized I could never compete with him in running. Rather than sulldng, or trying to knock his achievements, I have realized the best thing a brother can do is take pride In his sibling's accomplishments. 
Rather than talk about my brother who is the third best runner on his high school team, 1 can brag that I am the brother of a determined kid who has run daily through the biting cold of Minnesota winters. He has become the third best, behind two of the fastest runners In the state, on an undefeated cross-country team which Is facing only the state meet. He got there only by struggling five kilometers with the pain of tendonitis tearing at his knee. Had he not run with that pain, he and his teammates would not have won the regional meet that qualified them for the state competition next Saturday. 
There was a time when I might have been more envious and less proud of his ac­complishments. I won one letter in high school for tennis In my senior year -the same year that he won his first letter in track as a high school freshman. Now he will be com­peting in the state cross country meet. 
Regardless of what happens at Saturday's Minnesota State High School League Cross Country Meet there will be two definite win­ners: my younger brother who has worked for years to get to where he is, and his older brot­her who realizes what an accomplishment It Is. 
jobn A. Menne// Is a junior American studies/government major at Notre Dame and tbe production manager of Tbe Obser­ver. 
Quote of the day 
"Atlast, smallwitches, goblins, hags, And pirates armedwith paper bags, Their costumes hinged on safety pins, Go haunt a night of pumpkin grins." 
john Updike 
(1932-) 
"October" 

"ie~P.~O~i_n_t__________________________________________Th__ur_s_da_y_,_o_ct_o_b_er_3_I_,_I~98_5___P_a_ge__s__ 
P.O.BoxQ 
America should assist blacks in South Africa 
DearEditor: 
Those who call for the withdrawal of ~ American companies from South Africa are r right on target; but they focus too narrowly on 
one aspect ofa much largerproblem. Not only
~ 
-ought the United States end its political andr economic collusion with the white govern­ment ofSouth Africa, it ought also to offer as­
r 
ssistance, at least moral if not material, to the African National Congress and other political factions which struggle to throw offthe chains ofoppression within that country. 
However tragic, the day has long since passed when South African blacks can achieve their freedom by non-violent methods of rebellion. The white government has proved itself intransigent to the point of filnaticism; and the genie ofpolitical unrest among blacks can no longer be put back into the bottle. As Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. once remarked, "A closed society in the defense of evil institu­tions creates moral differences ru too profound to be solved by compromise. The unhappy fact is that man occasionally works himselfinto a log-jam; and the log-jam must be burst by violence." 
The question regarding South Africa is not r whether there will come a revolution. It has 
,.. 
already begun. The question is whether r America can still remove its own interests 
r 
from the log-jam. Surely our national security
r 
(not to mention the demands of conscience)
r 
r suggests that we should withdraw the last r vestiges of American support from that op­r pressive system and instead throw in our lot 
with those who strive to bring it tumbling down. 
Isaac McDaniel, O.S.B. 

Assessment of problem leaves much desired 
Dear Editor: 
It would be difficult for me to convey ef­fectively the rage I felt after reading the View­point article by Ken Andre on Oct. 18. Therefore, a systematic critique of his presentation will have to suffice. 
Andre began his piece accurately with an assessment ofthe South African situation. The arguments he puts forth concerning economic sanctions against South Africa however, left much to be desired. 
The first contention, that apartheid is a political problem not an economic one, demonstrates not onlya lack ofunderstanding of the situation in South Africa but a fun­damentally erroneous conception ofpolitical­economy in general. As much as corporate executives deny the link, politics and economics are inextricably entwined, even in the ·~free market" of the United States. This relationship exists to an evengreater extent in the Republic ofSouth Africa. 
How can Andre claim that apartheid is not 
,an economic problem when the white minority prohibits black South Africans from owning property in so called "white areas", and maintains a stronghold over the owner­ship ofall productive sec~ors ofthe economy? Does he not know that blacks do not own the gold and diamond mines, the large farms, nor the high-tech industries? Blacks do not realize profits in South Africa. Instead they provide a source of cheap labor by which the powerful white minority obtains the profit. 
Two criticisms concerning Andre's second point on economic sanctions against South Africa can also be made. It seems it was not long ago that I stood on the steps of the Ad­ministration Building and heard the now in­famous statement that should U.S. firms divest from South Africa, theJapanese and West Ger­mans, who are not as concerned with social issues, would buy up U.S. interests. Little did I expect to see that same weak argument 
reiterated in The Observer a week later. As 
Mary Frances Berry pointedly asked at her 
lecture on Oct. 11, should we cavort with evil 
because ifwe don't someone else will? I think 
not. 

Secondly, Andre points to the failure of 
sanctions against Rhodesia as a justisfication 
for not imposing them against South Africa. 
One of the reasons these sanctions "didn't 
work" was the failure to fully implement 
them. Let us not forget the Byrd Amendment 
which allowed U.S. firms to import chrome 
and other minerals in spite of the sanctions. 
Perhaps if the sanctions had effectively been 
enforced, Zimbabwe would have been a free 
nation much sooner. 

Additionally, Andre claims that the frequent 
use ofeconomic sanctions to achieve political 
ends has resulted in a perception ofthe United 
States abroad as an unreliable supplier. I find it 
strange that this argument received little at­
tention when President Ronald Reagan 
imposed sanctions against Nicaragua. 
The third aspect of Andre's cost benefit 
analysis examines the cost ofsanctions against 
South Africa to the United States. I did not 
realize that the goal of sanctions against any 
country was to improve the U.S. economy. 
Certainly the potential for suffering by U.S. in­
dustry as a result of sanctions exists, but no 
one said fighting apartheid would be acostless 
battle. As black South African leaders have 
told us, they themselves would rather suffer 
briefly now than continue to suffer endlessly 
under the oppression ofapartheid. 
Arguments against economic sanctions fur­ther demonstrate patronizing, paternalistic at­titude that pervades this University. For some reason, the beliefexists at Notre Dame and in the White House that the United States knows what is best for South Africans living under the apartheid system. Foolishly, we think that we 
have solutions to their problems. In actuality, South Africans realize that only they can change their country, but not at the exclusion of outside assistance. Black South African leaders are urging the United States to come through with that aid in the form ofsanctions against the government of P.W. Botha. The best we can do is to heed their call. 
Margarita M. Rose Notre Dame graduate student 
Kevin Howard answers attack on his position 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to address some points made by John Ginty, a student senator, and the co­writers in their letter of Oct. 29. It would seem logical that someone involved in stu­dent government would try to get filets straight before committing near-libelous statements to print. 
To begin with, it is interesting to note that "it is no secret that the chairman of the Hall President's Council has the most to gain by making the Student Senate a scapegoat for the Healy-Lawrence administration's ineptitude." Also, I was in on "the IDthy grab for power when I signed the proposal for the abolish­ment of the senate. By the elimination of the senate, I will lose the only vote I have with regard to student government, as I will not sit on the Campus Life Council, the body which will effectively address student issues. The senate has been incredibly inept in fulfilling this role. You, Ginty, and the other four senators sit on the CLC with an HPC representative, currently Carroll Hall Presi­dent Steve Kern. I see absolutely no way in which I"gain power" as a result ofmy actions; in filet, the proposed move will increase your power. And now I suggest we declare a moratorium on the use of that word. 
nd then I read I was a "main instigator be­hind the student government debacle last spring." I was not on the CREST restructuring committee. I voted for this proposal as a mem­ber of the senate, but only with provisions asked for and often attained. I felt it was a good proposal but agree that it was unconstitu­tional. A "main instigator"? Please. Do not at­tempt to associate my name with such negative images when you couldn't even get the facts straight. 
You conclude by stating "Howard, (Lee) Broussard, and (Karen) Ingerswen have no constituencynd serve no purpose as mem­bers of the senate. Yet these so-called student 'leaders' abolish themselves and resign from the Student Senate so that some real work can be done." Precisely. You understand our point at long last, Ginty and friends. We serve no purpose on the senate and should be removed to allow the CLC to be the forum for the stu­dents to voice their opinions. Allow me to do my job, and Broussard and Ingwersen theirs, without the conflicts within the senate. Wit­hout the senate, even senators might ac­complish something. And none of us have resigned our positions on the senate, nor will we. I will not even mention the incorrect usage ofthe word "abolish." 
I am very proud of the members who sit on the HPC, their mature attitudes and their open minds throughout this confusing issue and our history as an effective body. Our record speaks for itself. I will thank you if, in the future, you do not drag the HPC's good name down by your silly allegations, Ginty and fel­low signers. 
Kevin Howard HPC Chairman 

There is much to be learned from the Reformation 
"How would things look ifRome (without ceasing to be Rome) were one day simply to overtake us (Protestants) andplace us tn the shadows, sofar as the renewing ofthe Church through the Word and the Spirit ofthe Gospel is concerned?" -Karl Barth 
David K. Seid 
~ 
guest column 

r r 
r This day, Oct. 31, 1985, this All Saints' Eve, ,.. we observe the 468th anniversary of the ,.. Protestant Reformation. Should we rejoice or 
should we mourn?
r-
We rightly mourn the divisiveness that frag­mented the unity ofthe Christ's Mystical Body and that gave rise to the scandal of a divided r house preaching reconciliation. Yet, we do r even better to mourn how little of the 
r: Reformation, our Reformation, we have 
r 
chosen to own. 
r 
The Protestant Reformation is our (Roman Catholicism's) Reformation as well as "their's" because it was God's chastisement of a people who had gone astray and become confused. The Spirit ofthe Reformation was a historical manifestation of the prophetic im­pulse. This is not to say that all ofits prophets acted in perfect harmony with the Holy Spirit at all times and in all places. There are prop­hets in every age who, like Jonah, are more possessed of self than they are possessed of God; and then there are others, likeJeremiah, who possess "the gift oftears." But who is the wise man? The one who judges the messenger or the one who judge the message? 
What, then, is the central thrust of the Reformation, and is it compatible with true Catholicity? Modern ecumenical dialogue has made apparent that the primary emphases of the Reformation, certainly at least at their core if not necessarily in every particular expression, stem from basic biblical prin­ciples. They are principles that sorely need to be reiterated for today's Christians: for Cat­holics, who still have much to absorb, and for Protestants, who have forgotten much. 
First of all, the Reformers emphasized, or more clearly, said not~ng new, but only restated and clarified that which is eternally true, that we are justified and made right with God by faith alone (Eph 2:8; Rom 3:28). Good works are indeed important, but form and expression are subordinate to substance and value. Faith, not good works per se, pleases our Divine Lover because the healthy Finally, the Reformers reaffirmed the relationship depends more on the state ofthe "priesthood of all believers" ( 1 Pe 2:5-9; Rev heart (will) than on the external (acts). The 5:10). The Lutherans and the Calvinists did not person who presumes to earn salvation and denigrate the ordained ministry but simply in­
reconciliation aspires to the impossible and the odious: attempting to earn love freely given. Yet, how many people today sincerely but wrongfully think that a merely moral and/or dutiful life will get them to heaven? 
Second in importance only to the necessity ofinner conversion is the Reformer's stress on holding a high view of the Bible. Why? Recall the words of St. Jerome, Doctor and Father: "He who does not know Scripture does not know Jesus Christ." Yet, little comfort to know that many mainline Protestants are even worse off. Fundamentalists, we say, know a lot of Bible but very little (good) theology. But are we really better off if we know very little Bible and a lot of bad theology? H. Richard Niebuhr jabs at those clerics and theologians who tell us: "A God without wrath brought men without sin into a kingdom without judgement through the ministrations of a Christ without a cross." Traditionalists. Progressives. Without the word of God, we think like mere wo(men) (Rom 12:2; Mt 22:29). 
:rhe Obse~,.er .. 
------: .=::=.. -...: -.: --..-=·~ --­
-

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­taries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Lipo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
sisted that both responsibility and power be restored to the whole People of God. To paraphrase St. John Chrysostom: to say that monks should strive for sanctity and that lay people need only avoid hell, is a doctrine of devils. Yet, there are still many parishes and congregations that seem like one-(wo)man shows while scores ofparishioners each week put in thousands of (wo)man hours into ot­her, less important causes than the work of advancing the Kingdom of God ( 1 Cor 12:12­27; 2 Cor 5: 11-21; Vatican II, "Decree on the Apostolate of the Laity," Article 2,6, 7,10,13 ). Protestant Evangelicals say that every Chris­tian is a saint. Let's prove them right. 
I have a vision. I have a dream ... Isaw a man shrowded in white. Perched on a high bal­cony, his gaze fell upon a vast sea ofhumanity. Then he spoke -like a voice crying out in the wilderness -"Long live the Reformation!" , and the people -in a resounding thunder ­replied "Viva il Papa!" 
DavidK. Setd ts a graduate student tn psyc­hology at Notre Dame. 
Operations Board 
Business Manager .. ..... David Stephenitch Controller ............... . . Wilham J. Highducheck Advertising Manager ............... Jim Hagan Systems Manager. .... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. ........ . .... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Accent 
Thursday, October 31, 1985-page 9 
Russia 
A look behind 
• 
~
the Iron Curtain 
HANNES HACKER 
featuns Writer 
A 
mericans hear of the Soviet 
Union every day on the news or 
in the papers, yet few ofus have a 
clear picture of what life is like in 
what President Reagan called "the 
Evil Empire." Terms like chis cause 
us to wonder even more, what it is 
like to live in the Soviet Union? To 
say the least, an "Evil Empire" 
which buffers itself from the West 
behind an Iron Curtain is a mys­
terious creature. 
However, some Notre Dame 
students have had the opportunity 
to go behind this Iron Curtain and 
see the Soviet Union for themselves. 
Three of these students are Edward 
j. Sheeran, David lmmonen, and Mike Kucher. Although their stay was short, they still had an oppor­tunity to experience the country and its people enough to satisfy curiosity and learn a great deal about the Soviet Union. 
The first thing these students saw 
in the Soviet Union was a guide 
from INTOURIST, the Soviet 
government tourist agency. 
Sheeran, a Notre Dame law student 
who went to the Soviet Union while 
he was an undergraduate here, was 
surprised to find that his guide 
recognized him as well as the other 
students in his group from the 
photos they sent on their visa ap· 
plications. 
These applicatons asked for back­ground information and Sheeran felt lucky that his did not ask for his military background: he was an ROTC cadet at the time and he felt this would cause the Soviets to deny him an entrance visa. 
Sheeran described his guide as a "friendly but dogmatic" person who would not hesitate to criticize 
U.S. policies. He also mentioned that the guides had to report their 
location and that of their group to 
the KGB every day. For this reason, 
they would turn down invitations 
to dinner with the students. 
In addition Sheeran said, "Foreigners are mistrusted and 


j 
their freedom is strictly limited while guests in the Soviet Union." •j The reason for this, he said, is that 
l J the Soviet government wants to avoid foreigners mixing with its population. 
In order to restrict his group's freedom, his itinerary was made so tight as to discourage independent exploration. 
lmmonen, junior in the College ofArts and Letters, had a different experience with his guide, who was much more open and even made jokes about the KGB. Also, his guide "only mildly discouraged going away from the group." However, he went on to add that, "everything was planned so there wasn't much opportunity to do it." 
lmmonen speculated that the difference between these guides could have been due to the fact that his group was primarily from Austria, a neutral country, where Sheeran's group came from London. 
One common stereotype ofRus­sians that Sheeran found to be untrue was that Russians are back­ward, cold, and ignorant. He said that Russians are very warm, Intel-• ligent, and curious people, but it is not always manifested due to mistrust offoreigners induced by the state. 
Sheeran also noticed, "The people, generally, are not salified 

St. Basil's Cathedral is located in Moscow's Red Square. 

with the way the things are." They would never openly say so, he said, Czechoslovakia and East Germany but it was apparent in the way they have had freedom in their recent acted, as if life were a burden. history, before the cold war." 
Kueber, on the other hand, had a Another preconcieved notion different perception of the Soviet which Sheeran discovered to be citizens. "People don't really know untrue was that religion had been what they're missing, where as the crushed in the Soviet Union. He other eastern bloc countries, like went on to say, "Despite attempts of 
The ice this fiend swipes can really be finger licking good 
MARY BERGER 
featuns Writer 
T 
he clauerring "Tink, tink, tink, 
link, tlnk, link" and human siren 
"Whaoooa, whaoooa, whaoooa" as a 
box of fudgesicles Is slid not-too· 
discreetly under a sweater foil 
another attempt to steal something 
tasty from the cafeteria. 
An alert Unlverstly Food Services worker is poised at the door ready to disarm the culprit, as the student specta!Ors become more aware of each move the opponents make. 
The Fudgesicle Fiend slides the plain, brown box on to a chair as she spots what Is awaiting her and stops to discuss the dilemma with the people seated at the nearest table. 
At the same time, the relentless worker flusters a bit, attempting to watch every move the Fiend makes while still appearing to concentrate on the paperwork in her hands. 
After consulting her accomplice, the Fudgeslcle Fiend stands and chats a bit more, appearing to the worker to be in a deep conversa­tion. 
The Fiend's eyes flicker to the opposite side ofthe cafeteria and the door located at that end, open and unguarded, calling her name. 
The tension rises as the worker waits for the Fiend to make her move and the Fiend contemplates just what her next move shosuld be. 
like a thiefin the night, she goes for it. Heading for the door at a steady jog, the Fudgesicle Fiend eludes the unsuspecting worker! 
The worker doesn't lose much time, though. Realizing her suspect has outwitted her, the worker chases after her. THe worker moves slowly at first but soon picks up the pace. 
Suddenly, she drops her keys! The crowd sucks in their breath. "Will she pick them up or continue her pursuit?" they wonder. 
In one deft move, as if to answer the question without It even being verbalized, she sweeps her keys up offthe floor and continues the chase. 
The crowd cheers her on as she reaches the edge ofthe room and disappears behind the doors, seeking out her suspect. 

"Did they get away with it?" 
"I wonder Ifshe caught them?" 
"She should have left the keys!" 
Curiosity fills the air as the stu­
dents try to settle down to their 
reubens, leftover ravioli, and legal 
fudgesides. 
Then... she emerges. 
Victorious and with the evidence in her own hot little hands, the pride of Univeristy Food Services returns to the dining room amid roars, cheers, and extensive hand clapping. 
It seems a standing ovation is appropriate for the moment but our heroine is back to her job at the bat ofan eye. 
She returns to the checking area and is then seen recounting her colorful tale to her co-workers, a huge grin on her face. 
Another great day at the North Dining Hall for our unwavering worker. But, another futile attempt for the Fudgesicle Fiend and her cohorts. 
With heads hanging, the Fudgesicle Fiend and her com­panions return to their rooms, plotting all the way how to palm those popsicles tomorrow. 
the state to crush it, there is still a substantial amount ofreligious belief in the Soviet Union. Much of it today centers in the elderly, those who've lived through the purges, sieges, and wars." 
He also cited a growing resur­gence offaith among Russia's youth. 
He felt that this was due to a dis­satisfaction with party teachings, but not a total rejection ofthem. 
Kueber also noticed the amount ofreligious beliefamong the Rus­sian citizens, saying, "No matter 
see RUSSIA, page 10 

....,-.. -· -i~··!·:\--.
·"\·. .. . 



t 
I ~ 
l 
t 
l l 
~ ~ 
t 
l 
l 
I 
i 
t 
t 
I• 
Thursday, October 31, 1985-page 10 
• I\ I 
'i 
The Observer/Ed Sheeran 

Our Lady o{Smolemsk is no longer a functioning Orthodox church. 
All aboard for Russia 
HANNES HACKER 
featun?s writer 
U 
nlike most Notre Dame stu­
dents who will just go home 
over Christmas break, a small group 
of them will also visit the Soviet 
Union. jim Butterfield, a graduate 
student in Soviet Studies, is organiz­
ing a trip to the Soviet Union in the beginning ofjanuary. 
Butterfield explained the purpose of the trip, "It's hard to appreciate what it's like being Rus­sian without actually going there. You can read about it in the paper or in books, but its not the same thing as experiencing it first hand." 
The trip starts from Kennedy International Airport in New York onjanuary 2. (This date allows interested students to spend Christmas at home.) It is up to the student to be in New York on the second, but if there is enough inter­est, a domestic group rate to New York could be arranged. 

The Council ofMinisters' building is the main Soviet house ofgovernment. 
Russia 
continued {rom page 9 
how hard the government tries to 
stamp out religion and people's 
beliefin God, they still believe in 
Him. It was a sign ofhope for me." 
INTOURIST did give the students an opportunity to meet Russian students, but only high school students who firmly believed in the Communist party's doctine. When 
The guy second next to God was driving by us 
KATHY SCARBECK 
featun?s writer 
T 
he loud, staccato knocks upon the doors ofthe stu­dents' rooms were scarcely ack­nowledged. It was all too easy to roll over and hit the snooze button on the alarm clock as it obnoxiously signalled the rude hour of3:30a.m. With a tremen­dous amount ofeffort, and more than a little help from their roommates, the members ofthe University ofNotre Dame In­nsbruck Program slowly arose from the haven oftheir beds to get ready for church. This would be no ordinary Mass, however, as the location was the tiny European country ofLiech­tenstein and the celebrant was PopeJohn Paul II. 
Scarcely a "Guten Morgen" was heard as most ofthe group of twenty seven and their direc­tor David L. Schindler boarded their bus at 5 a.m., half an hour later than planned. The gorgeous Austrian countryside was scarcely appreciated during this Sheeran's gro~p asked to visit Mos­cow University, the tour guide brushed them off saying, "Nothing would interest you there." 
Perhaps the most educational aspect of the visit was experiencing, first hand, a society without basic human rights. Traveling students were well aware of the fact that they could easily get into trouble for as little as saying something wrong. 
Aman approached Sheeran's group in Moscow and said he was a dissident and wanted to know 
five-hour trip from Salzburg, 
Austria to liechtenstein's capital 
city ofVaduz; at this point the 
view behind closed eyelids was 
quite enough for these Domers. 
At least they arived fairly 
refreshed at the entrance to the 
Sport Park Eschen-Mauren, a 
large field upon which a huge 
platform, bleachers, and roped­
offstanding areas had been con­
structed. The group members 
spent the hour before the Mass 
listening to unfamiliar voices 
give speeches over a loud­

speaker in German. "What? That 
was the prince ofLiechtenstein? 
I didn't know they even had · one!" said one confused listener. 
Soon it was 11 a.m. and time 
for the pope's entrance. Luckily, 
only half ofthe expected 50,000 
people were in attendance, so 
most ofthe students had an ex­
cellent view ofjohn Paul II as he 
drove by in his clear plastic­
shielded "Pope-Mobile," perhaps 
no more than ten feet away. · 
The date was Sunday, Septem­
ber 8, the Church's designated 
day for celebrating the birthday 
ofthe Virgin Mary. The Pope read aloud the Gospel according to Matthew, recounting how an angel toldjoseph not to be afraid to take a pregnant Mary as his wife. This theme was recounted inJohn Paul Il's 40-minute homily on the worth of the family and marriage. 
"The Catholic Church will not stop repeating its principles and those in particular that concern the problems ofunmarried couples living together, in­fidelity in marriage, divorce, and abortion," asserted the pope to the people ofLiechtenstein, 85 percent ofwhom are Catholic. 
The members ofthe program expressed a variety ofreasons for wanting to see the pope. "My grandmother would have killed me if I didn't go!" states Notre Dame sophomore joAnne Bar­bera. 
"It gave me goosebumps," says Patty Scallen, a sophomore from Saint Mary's. "There was only one kid in front of me and then the pope. It was great -the guy second next to God driving by us." 
The itinerary includes visits in Leningrad, Moscow, and Tbilisi, the capital ofthe Georgian republic. This last stop is meant to show the diversity of the Soviet Union, since Tbilisi has a different climate, heritage, people and history than the other two cities. 
There will also be an opportunity 
to sightsee in Helsinki. 
The deadline for sign-up was Monday, however students can still sign up if they pay a late fee. Also any student wishir;tg to sign up should already have a passport. 
The total price for the trip, late fees included, is about S I 500, but if enough students sign up, this price could drop to as low as S1325. These prices include round trip transportation from New York to South Bend (arriving on the night before registration ),room and board, guide costs and visa ex­penses. 
For further questions, interested students should contact the depart­ment ofgovernment and interna­tional studies. 

where he could find other dissi­dents. Sheeran wanted to help him, but he did not want to take the chance that the man was really a KGB agent, so he did not even answer him. 
All ofthe students who visited the Soviet Union thought it was an educational experience. Kueber summed it up: "Russia is a fascinat­ing land, and there's much Americans can learn by going there. Americans should make an effort to study Russia, their land, their culture, and their language." 
The Observer Thursday, October 31, 1985 -page 11 
Sports Briefs · 
A pep rally will be held tomonuw at 7 p.m. in Stepan The ND basketball team will hold a scrimmage Center. Guest speakers will include members of the 194'5 football on Saturday at I p.m. Free to the public, the scrimmage will be held team and Inside Linebacker Coach George Kelly. -The Observer in the ACC. · The Observer 
WVFI sports will air coverage ofboth hockey and football SMC intramuraltennis tournament entries will be this weekend. Pete Pranica and Vito Gagliardi will call Saturday's 
accepted at the Angela Athletic Facility until tomonuw. Both singles Notre Dame-Navy game, beginning at 2:'50 p.m.. joe Malvezzi will and doubles matches will be played. -The Observer anchor coverage of the Irish hockey team beginning at 7:20 Friday night and 8:20 Saturday night. ·The Observer 
A Red Cross water safety instructor course 
sponsored by NVA will hold an organization meeting on Monday at 7
The Saint Mary's soccer team lost to Hope 
p.m. at Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. For more in­College yesterday 2-1, dropping its record to 4-9. Sue Schirel scored formation about the course call the NVA office. -The Observer 
for the Belles. The Belles play their final game ofthe season Saturday at noon against Loyola (Chi.). -The Observer 
Off-Campus hockey team will be meeting on 
Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Lounge. Anyone interested
SMC aerobic classes will be held beginning Monday should attend. For more information call Ed Sullivan at 272-2454 or and running through to the end of the semester. Classes will meet Tim Connors at 288-5484. from 10-10:'5'5 p.m. Monday and Wednesday, and from '5-6 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday. The entry fee of 15 will be accepted at the see BRIEFS, page 14 Angela Athletic Facility. · The Observer 
Soccer 
continuedfrom page 16 
now shell-shocked Valparaiso goaltender. About three minutes later, on probably the best play of the game, co-captain David Miles scored on a header from freshman Tommy Gerlacher's assist to stake the Irish to an insurmountable 6-1 lead. 
Valparaiso scored two late goals 
to make the final 6-3, but Coach Grace didn't think that his team got complacent with a five goal lead. 
"I played 25 guys," explained Grace. "Heck, at one point I had five goalies on the field. I thought everyone was intense until the end." 
This ·victory brings the team's record to 6-11-4, with one game remammg Friday against tough Loyola on Alumni Field at 2 pm. 
"They took us to a 0-0 overtime 

l•
tie last year so we'U be looking for a pretty good game," said Grace. "It sure would be nice to close out the season with three straight wins." 

Th•• fJhs••rn•r :\otn· IJ.Jmt· otfi«· hKatrd on tht· thord floor of l.ah>num· 
~tudt•nr ( xntn. .Jlll"Jlt' tla~"lkd .Jd\l"rl"ln!( !rom') a m until ·~ r m . \lund.. , 
throu~o:h hod.11 fh•· Uhst'T"t·er ~.Jon! \I.J~ 'offou· lo<att·d on tht" rhord floor ot 
lf.JIQ(.Jr <.olll"j(l" ( l"nll"r. .J«TJl1' tla'"fk.J, from 1.! ~(I Jl 01 untoJ ~ Jl 01 .\Ion 
d.JI 1h11Ujo:h ~nd.JI lkadlont· f1 • ~'·" d.JI lia'"finl' " ~ Jl 01 .\II li.J"Ifil"d' 
mu't ht· pn·p.11d. t·orhn 111 per" on r h1 mao I ( har~o:•·" 111 u·nt~ p.-r fovr,·hara<·
Classifieds 
tt'r' t·r da' 
NOTICES 
Le111 be known 1h81 
KellyHav­
'' celll,.!mg !he big 
29 
1od8y 
H8PP~ 81Nhd8y from Ulllll 
TYPING AVAIL.AIIlE 287-4082 
TYPING CALl. CHilli U4-8117 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-853-4 AFTER 5:30 
BUSINESS EXPRESS. INC. Wordpr~ng an<l typing 272-8827 
PRO. TYPE Qv.,. ! Sy-. elp Speaallz­lng In e1ud8n1 P8P..... lllw ~· dll· llt18bona. •-mee. 2n.5933 
TYPING 
2n-4104a 
FIIIE PICKUP & DEUVEIIY 
TYPING wm _..,__,llltere, appltt*(-. 11-Chlllllle .....; 
plctwp & dellvwy on ...,pu_ ....111111. C8ll c.thy lc:huta "'­&-10 p.m. m-&114. 
Will DO TYPING-EXPERIENCED TYPIST-15YEARS CAll287-5162. 
WINTER BREAK ekung 11 S1Mmbo8t Spnnga ln<l V811 from $75. Of eunn1ng 11 Sou!h P8dre l...n<l lnd OlyiONI 8Mcl1 from $1181Hurry. call Sunchue IOf more 
•ni<Jmlllbon loll free 1·8()()-321·5911 Of con18c1 1 Sunchlle Repr...,ll11ve Of your loc8l Travel Agent}' TODAY' When your Winter break countl...count on Sunchll81 
UllaAN PLUNGE! 
I1D-PIO WI!I!KLY/UP IIIAIUNG CIR­CUI..AMI NO QUOT.UI IINCI!JtElY IHTEIIEITED IIUIH IELF· ADOREIIEO ENVELOPE: IUCCEII. PO 101 470CEG, WOODITOCK, IL 50018. 
EIPEIIT TYPING IEIIVICE. CALL IIIII. COKER, 2»-70011. 
LOST/FOUND 
lOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CON· TACT AliCIO 287-7657 
la.l I know eomebody loun<l my jean j8Cke1 2 week• 8110 in room 114 o.h8Q.. It you lound i11"d rMiy like it b8ck 10 please call1784 
FOUND: SMAlL BlACK PURSE WITH NO 1.0. BUT LOTSA DOLlARS. FOUND ON OCT. 16AT PARTY AT CORNER OF NAVARRE AND ST LOUIS. CAll TEO AT 2383 TO IDENTIFY. . 
TO WHO EVER TOOl< MY BACKPACK • I do no1 C81"1 how you happened 10 gel II. bu1a11eu1 have1he decency 10 re1um my NOTES. My backpack wu dlr1< blue an<l dlllp~ed dunng lunch 10/16 11 IOUih dln1ng hall. 11 con!8/ned Ill or my no111 lor H111ory. Phyelca. Emil. and Englilh. I!-., con!81ned • Radio Sh8Ck callcuill10f ln<la lew booQ My Mme and number are on every1h1ng In my backpack. 10 I! lhould no! be dlfflcuh 10 lind me. I would really appreaare 11 11 I could have my NOTES baek.ll you have !hem pi-cllll MIKE 11 2360. No QUM!ione liked 
Found: wan-·e -ch •rum.r nita on .,......._,PE I ar-belcn fur· noll toPE. call K811'y a411081o icler*fy. 
LOST:goldh-'1hllpedpinkynngwilhl 
tiny ruby In 1118 -·0..Mnii!MtiWI •alu•.H1ound.~caiiHMcy ..421M. 
LOST: A ,.,... lzoel eui1.-a1 S18p8n 
c.ntar Frtd8y nigh! all.,. vcatlon. 11 you have 11, know ol -who ~. Of have-n It,~ c1111 K81hteen Kiley a1 2n-a53&. 
LOST: My eu~ ..,.,.,_,.,..be!· _,green tletd 8n<l Grace hal after !he USC Q8me. They lite blllck. mirrored. and h•v• an llqUa e!ripe ...-ou !he frame. They •• vary "nllmental!lll c.tt Jim a1 4245. Th811k1!! I kn.,. eomeone would re1Um !hemI! 
................................................. 
LOST:a black SONY DISKMAN. La.1illa1 Mond8y on !he Uni1ed limo Van. Picked up by • gon on !he van wi!h me. Sheliv11 in Breen-Phillipl. Pi-re1urn 10 loe1 1n<1 lound Of me 11 Jeff 4609 
FOR RENT 
.................................. 
RENT A COLOA TV OA MICROWAVE OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR CITY/COLLEGATE RENTAlS INC..25tl7661 
.................. 
f or 2 ROOMMATES needed tor Tunle Creel< Townhouae. 0rM1 rownhouae. v..-y riUOn8tlle. C8112n-2384 
3 BR HOME HAS ROOM FDA 1 non­amoking ORAD STUOENT.$130/UTIL.232-8327 
CAMPUS VIEW APTS 1 MAlE ROOMMATE NEEDED CALL 272·3840 
WANTED 
WANTED: 11uden1 in1erea1ed in mall80­ing N.D. Women·a Volleyb811 TNm. Tr8/lllng 10 begin immedia181y. luireapon­liblii11M 10 begin 1986 aeuon. Appllc.­11ona m.ay be lilted ou11n Volleyball Office. ACC. Oueatio,.? 23~7 be!ween 2:30 ln<l 6:30. 
Tntvel Field Opportunity. O.n 
.......... rn8rlllltng ••Piri--white 
.-nlng money. C.mpua 
nep-1••nMCiecllmmedt8blly 1cw 
epring llrMic trtp to Ftortdll. Cll llr8d ......... 811-8()()-282-8221. 
TAKE THE UR.AN PLUNGE! 
KEYBOARD PLAYER NEEDED lo com­ple1e rod< band. c.tt Fri1Z 3413 
RIDE NEEDED TO U of I CHAMPAIGN. LEAVE EARlY FRI. AFTERNOON. RETURN SAT. FDA GAME. CAll STEVE 1204 
FOR SALE 
INFLATABLE HAlLOWEEN PUMPKINS GREAT DECORATION/GIFT DON 1463 
LIU QA"a AVAIU.LEI LIU GA"e AVAILAIILEII I h•ve over lw8nly lSU GA 11cketa IOf aale 1o anyone who wan18 !hem. They ere greer ...,. bu! •e going lui!! If you need any of lh-1icke18 call 3828 aorne11me aoon. Any 11cketa !hat aren"1 bough! h.,.e 11 NO llfe1o be sold to 1 hoard olll8bld TIGER Fanall 
FOR SALE · 6 Navy GAl. C811 Jean 284· 
4380. 

TICKETS 
I-NAVY~-QAa.272.GCII 
Deapent81y r18ld 1 N8vy O.A. or e1Udllnl ticllet. Cll JMnna 2862 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA"a. CALL DAVE, 272· 
3832. 

NEEOED-2-4 GA"S FOR LSU GAME. Will PAY PREMIUM. CALL 4434. 
NAVY: Need 3 ticke!a. a1udllnta Of GA"a. wil p8y BIG $$$. Ch.. 1023. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING ... Navy GA"a Of arua.nr ticke!a. P-C8lt Char .. 2773. 
NEED 4 GA"S FDA NAVY OA LSU GAME. CALL 312·1151-4167 OA 312· 112&-9411 AND ASK FDA JOHN. 
I GOT NAVY. MISS .• AND LSU TIX. CALL ERIC 1527. BEST OFFER. 
................................................................ 
NAVY GAll FOIIIIALE.2»-14411 
Need 3 e1ud8n1 Mlu. 11• C/111 Mluy 284· 5424 
I AM DESPERATE FDA NAVY TICKETS I PLEASE CALL JULIE 284-4317 
NEEDED: 4 O.A. ·a -led1Dg81her IOf ell· h.,. NAVY Of MISSISSIPPI. Call Vihce at 3262 or 3261 . 
NEED A NAVY GA Of Studen1 tor my BIG li111e BROTHER.John 2n-12tl8. 
HEY YOU! You go11Wo NAVY GAl? C/111 13731nd m8ke me an off.... we·re talking deaper8tion h ...e. $$$$$$ 
NEED 2 NAVY OA"a (4245) 
I NEE03 NAVY GA"S. Will PAY$. CAll CHRISAT3349 
........................ 
NEED 3 OAio FOR NAVY CALL JOHN 3323 
NEED 4 MISS. OA"S CAll ROO AT 272· 
4504 

··········································· 
I HAVE 4 NAVY GA"S. NEED 2 lSU AND/OA 2 MISS OA"S. CAll JOHN· 1639 
Deap.,.a!ely NEED NAVY Tll-3 OA"a. 4 S!ud. c.ll Gene l288-4650 or Suun l2773. 
....................,,........................... I NEED 1 NAVY STUDENT TICKET I CAll2460 
4 NAVY G.A."S FOR SALE. 18811 1Dg81· her. c.ll Michele 232-7301 
NEED 2 NAVY GA"S CAll284-5523 
PENN I TATE Til NEEDED CALL 1104 
ORANGE IOWLI 
ORANGE .OWLI 
ORANGE BOWL ICOUII need 
IIIIISIUIPPI OA"al Call Mn ar 1515 
NAVY-NEED 2 OA"S.4125 ASK FOR JOHN 
I NEED 2 MISS GA"S OR STUDENT TIX"S. PLEASE CAll Bill-3467 
I NEED 5 (YES. 5) STUDENT TIX FOR MISSISSIPPI!! CAll SUSAN l2875. 
Need 2 Mill. OA"I. Nick 3662 
FOIIIALE: FOUR (4) NAVY ITUDEHT TICKETS. WOULD UKE TO lliADE FOil OLE IIIII GA'I IF POUIIILE. HAVE ITUDENT TlX TO ALL HOllE GAIIEI. CALL 2n·71170 AFTEIIB P.ll. 
PERSONALS 
··~Wid;;,";hj~P.,. true: .......................... 
w.·,. not dull, ....,.m8g/C! 
.ulle*CS.uJta.ICSIII eom. join In 1he fun &undlly-Thulldlly 10:00 pm ..Knightl of Cclumbua. Any~ C8lt ~<a-en at2855. S..y•1herel 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIOUOA. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.. 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
GLEE CLUB FAll CONCERT ThlaFnd8y· 8:15pm Wl8hlngtonHIIII Ticke!a wil be dla!ribu1ed a11he liFortuM Record S10fe TUII. ·Fri.• 12:30 • 4:30 (Umit of 2 per cullomer) 
F.O.B.I.S. FEST IS COMING!II F.O.B.1.S. FEST IS COMING Ill F.O.B.I.S. FEST IS COMINGIII F.O.B.I.S. FEST IS COM· lNGIII 
Bed &brMkfl8t, too1ballweekendl. NO & SMC p8f8f118. 2 nigh! minimum. 12 mine. from C8fTIPUI. $47 per night. Cal 291· 6152. 
THE ANIMAlS ARE OETIINO REST­LESS & THEIR CAGES ARE ABOUl' TO BURST. ADOPT A PET AT THE PET STORE ON 11/2 
THINKSTVI 
THINKSTVI 
THINK STY! 
HAllOWEEN PARTYII HAllOWEEN PARTY!! McCandl-H811 Frid8yNov.1 9-1:30$1 11 door 
d. 

SMC Ride Bo8rd lake a look in !he H1QU81" O•meRooml 
Appllc.tio,. due Thura. Oct.31 Take the plunge! UllaAN PLUNGE TOOAYI 
UR.AN PLUNGE 
UllaANPLUNGE 
ugANPLUNGE 

Atten11on Wuhington,O.C. 118H II COMING! IIBH II COlliNG! You only have a lew mon!ha to prep8fe .. Good luck, Bemateinl Love. Woodward 
PlgManlal 
""Their Playing Our Song"" Nov. 38pm O""laughlin Audi1orium $5 S1uden11 and F acul1y $1 0 General Admiuion 
Gel Dirty W11h AHog I 
'klngHoge 
HAPPY 501h. DAO!II Love. CA 
Go Hog Wild I 

Hungry?·· C8ll YEllOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Oeliv..-y houra: 5prn-12pm Mond8y· Thurad8y: 5pm-2am Frid8y: 3pm-1am S.rurd8y; and 4pm-10pm Sun­day. 
Ask not what your count/)' c.n do for you bu1 what you c.n do in !he c.pital ot Mua.-Springlield. l"m glad you all c.me home wi1h me even it I didn"t gel to gel drunk! Basion will never be !he umel 
143. your lour guide EARN $$S FDA All THOSE IIOOI<S YOU OION"T READ!! PANOORA"S Will BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M-F 114. 0A WE CAN HELP YOU FINO A USED 11001< FDA A CLASS. WE"RE OPEN M­F 11-6, SAT&SUN 10.5. PANOORA"S IS OPPOSITE COABY"S • 937 SOUTH BEND AVE. 

..LLORa.LE Alaia AJAX. famoue for hie pick-up IInil Ia 191od8y! HAPPY BIRTHDAY Blue---­
Hey W01118n! (1hl1 rnMnl you. Norma): Ch-Upllln !he ligh1 or e!emity. wha1 do GRADES maHer? All your w•ckY lrienda e1illluv yal-Amy Sue 
NEED ICU.A EQUIPMENT (COMPLETE WITH FUPPEMI) TO IETTLE GRUDGE MATCH ON lOUTH QUAD. CALL OENIIE 011 IUE IN 
• A DIN. 

........................................... 
JOHN S.-BEWARE!!I YOUR STill AT THE TOP. MIDDLE. AND BOTIEM OF ITII YOU REAllY SHOULON"T SAY NASTY THINGS LIKE THAT TO GIRLS EVEN IF THEY ARE YOUR FRIENDS!!! 
LAUGH NOW KEVIN-YOU MIGHT BE NEXT!!! 
O.J.O. (Aiiu H.H.) I GUESS ren1 len"! !he only th1ng you have 1o pay tori See ya Frid8y ""baby"". D.O. 
Happy 8-d8y Silver Bullet Cetebra1e !hie '""'"'en<I?Love.Cue 
ODE TO MYCHAl SCHULZ by Ginny L11 Wi1hou1 mee1ing you on d8y 1hree. I wouldn"1 have made It 11 NO. You"re !he only m.an I wan11o 1ickle.1he rMl Mr. April. my Super Pickle. You"re1heeubjec1 ol my ar1. and the owner ot my hear1. Halloween 11 only h81f the tun. leg81ityl YN! You"re 211 Be in my room ronigh1117.ln<l you"ll be taken etrligh1 10 hMven. So happy bint>dlly Mychal bear. jul1 wan1ed you 1o know I Cllfe. 
J.B. (hey.lhl1 rhymel wi1h 33).have 1 GREAT one! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Love.Kathleen 
·;;;;;;id··N~:~~~~·~.;;;;;;;~~~·b.:·iii~··~~~~ 
craze? 

THE •ot~a ARE BACK SATURDAY NOV. 28:00 PM Wuhlngton Hall TICKETS 2$ 11 Rock Ou lac 
HAllOWEEN COSTUME PARTY Frid8y nigh! Pangborn Social Spece. 9:30.1:30. Admiuion $1. Proceeda go 1o Uni1ed Way. Come in coa1ume for 1 howling good time! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY· KATHRYN HUMM!II HOT LIPS HUMM. how long hull really been? Do you eliN know how? No more e•cu-1 lt"a juet peychologlclll. right? Thia gin really dllervea • big bir1hd8y emooch. 10 guya It you -her around­don't heaita1e !o lET HER HAVE ITIII 118 her one and only birth· d8y wilhI Thi1 women il HOT!!I Anyoneln1erll1ed in fu~ lilling !he birthd8y wiah and celebr811ng wi!h Ka1hl")'n may call her at h.,. Slh floor pen!houae Le1118nl Hall. l5273. Enjoy your BIRTHDAY! (we lite) One1o remem­ber! Love.Ru1h.Red. and Ryan 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SHUFFERSI LUKEWARM WISHES TO A PRETTY MEDIOCRE DUDE PARTY IT UP -INDEED LUV N" OTHER FUN STUFF, THE P.C."S 
THE ZARFS OF AUGUSTA HAll ARE SHOWING UP EVERYWHERE! 
HEY MICHAEL FRANCIS MAC 
LENNAN· I'M CRAZY ABOUT YOUII 
LOVE. MICHELE RENEE KRUZE 
P...-tclt-~ 
with hHdphonN 
Onlyi1UOI 
llueiXUIIO'a 10for$23 
Piue1he ill1ea1111bume trom ABC. Rulh. Mr. Mieler. •nd m()(e... Only af Rock duuc 
Firat floor LaFortune 
AIDS; ANOTHER IOWAN DISCOVERS SEX 
.............................. 
JOBS IN FLOAOIA! Come -'"Arming The Air FOfce; Eglin Air Force a...·· 31 Oct II 6 p.m. In !he Lib. Aud. L_, ll>ou1 job oppurtunitiea. bolh dv!Uan 1n<1 miN!IIty a1 Eglin. 11"1 1 rMl boom-boom.llhoo1_.,., up Hick. Wi!hou1 ue1he Air Force 1ajua1 an unachedUied 81rlin11. 
SMC SNA AND NO PRE-MED SOCIETY ·MASH BASHI· NOV. 1 AT HCC ~7 pm WEAR YOUR SCRUB SHIRTS! 
FDA A SAVAGE TIME CALL BEAST AND HOO 284-5265 
THANK YOU TWICE. ST. JUOE 
JULIE PANEPINTO: WISH I COUlD HAVE BEEN THERE TO CELEBRATE MY BEST BUOOY"S 21ST. HANG IN THERE KIODO. THESE THINGS HAP· PEN WITH FRUIT FLIES. WATCH THE MAIL FOR A PACKAGE FROM IRELAND. A LEPRECHAUN MAY BE JUST YOUR HEIGHT, lOTS OF LOVE FROM LONDON. 
DEAR K. HAPPY B·DAY. YOU BIG "OL HAAG. HERE"S WISHING YOU MUL· TITUDES OF GIFTS! LOVE. THE 
COMBS 
NORMIE·· Oon"tle! EMil get you down I To him you c.n only be • 7 bu! 10 u1 you are 1 10 I We are all puMing !Of you ­Thoumou1 
Be. TOLEDO II PROUD 10 wolh you I 
,HAPPY BIRTHOAYII Love ya. The GLASS CITY KIDS and GROUPIES 
GIRLS GIRLS GIRLS GIRLS C/111 ewee1. adorable. ""Bilby Paul"" Kann8kk8nMn on hi• 1tlth Blnhd8y. He would love 1o h­lrom you a11201. 
THERESE. Don"! be deprllled babe. only 16 more O.ye lo your birthd8y (Oil yMh you"re g01ng 10 love 11). Rhlnol Qonu1! AliiI Hytu! MUFF 
BaB 
OrA 
Bee 
SK 
MOIRA moira MOIRA HAPPY 8-0AYI M8y you lllw•y• 1118in1ain !he per1ect buzz KB& Biff 
3000 KAZOOII 3000 KAZOOII THE SAB Will BE DISTRIBUTING 3000 KAZOOS TO YOU ABSOLUTELY FREE! WHEN? AT THE STUDENT GATES OF THE STADIUM BEFORE THIS SATUR· DAY'S NAVY va. N.D. GAME. IT"S APr SOLUTELY IRRESISTIBLEIII 
GAY? LEUIAN? LONELY? 
WHY? DO YOURSELF A FAVOR AND CONTACT GAYI & LU.AHI AT NO/IIIC, PO 11011114, NOTRE DAIII!, IN 41188 FOil CONFtDEHTlAL IM­FOIIIIIA TION. 
18 con lc lle-"k8n-ik/ed/ (1U85): u81ng or involving !he uae ot a minimum ol wordl: conaae to !he poln1 of being myelerioul. bu1 111M very rMl ayn Loving. •ccep!ing. gen!le. generou•. pebenl, fun -Ufe-givmg 

The Observer Thursday, October 31, 1985 -page 12 

Paxson signs offer sheet with Bulls 
A88odatcd Pre• 
San Antonio Spurs guard John Paxson has signed a free-agent of­fer sheet with the Chicago Bulls, according to officials of the Na­tional Basketball Association team. 
The Spurs have 15 days to match Chicago's offer, Bull's spokesman Tim Hallam said Tuesday, adding that the terms of the offer were not available. 
The 6-2 former Notre Dame player was the Spur's first-round pick, the 19th selection overall, in the 1983 NBA draft. 
He averaged 6.2 points and 3 assists in 78 games last season. 
lfPaxson signs a Bulls contract, Chicago would have to make room for him on its 12-man 
MID .. EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
FOODS

•· Ve~Wtanaa & lleot D;.lwe SHAWBDIA A MUGBDERA-BABA GHENOUJ HOMMUS-FELAFEL 
TEBBOULI SA/.AD SOUTH BEND • LEBANESB STYLE 



• 
Pita Sk4/ed Slut.dwid&a G VROS 

• 
DeU,ht/ul Putriea • TIU'•iah Coff~e 


288-5639

Tueo -Sot ll:30Pitl -9:30PM COMPLETE CATENNG FOR 838 Portage
PARTIES & BANQUETS 

107.Discount for ND/SMC Students 

;:~·--------, FRIDAy N v 1.
1Br1dget, I + , o : 
1 1hope your night 1Sta~ s at +he Adrv"\tn.""B\d9. I isn't too scary! I 6: 00 f7" I heeheehee I. "Pf=t,12.ES • ~\Z.ES • ~IZ.ES • 
~~~~~~~~~~~~----------------------------------------------------------------J 

BLESSED SACRAMENT FATHERS AND BROTHERS (S.S.S) Religious communities are a Jot like you has blessed the work of the Congregation and me. As we look around, we see people enormously in ils first century-and-a­who resemble us in many ways-physical quarter of life and labor on behalf or lhe features, shared feelings and human ex­Kingdom. periences, common goals-and yet who are Whal distinguishes lhe Blessed Sacra­very different from us In I heir Individuality, ment Fathers and Brothers is their intense too. We are ddined as persons by lhal love for I he Eucharist. Certainly, I he which we share with the res I of people, and Eucharist beh;ngs lo lhe entire Church, bul by thai which distinguishes us from others. lhe Priests and Brothers of lhe Congrega­tion have accepted a special charge from lheIn lhe Catholic Church there are hun­Church lo be contemporary aposlles of lhedreds of religious communllies, or orders. Eucharist and of eucharistic living. The TheThese groups of "religious" men and Rule of l.ife puis il this way: "Our ideal is women have come out of a common tradi­lo live I he Eucharistic Mystery lo the fullest llon-whal Pope John Paul II terms "lhe and to make clear its significance so thai theconsecrated life''-and thus have much in Kingdom of Christ may come...." (I) common (the vow•, community living, and l.il'ing the Eucharistic Mystery to its a share In the Church's mission of fullest means developing every pG"siblespreading the Kingdom of God). dimension of I he Eucharist. Through a love But each religious communlly has for the Liturgy and for prayer before lhr something which marks II out as distinct Blessed Sacrament, through a life of from the others, too. This charism (or gift brotherly concern in community, and of the Holy Spirit) is each community's through a life of service and of dedication unique ideal or spirit which, when added to lo justice and peace, Blessed Sacrament lhe whole, manifests lhe richness or lhe Fathers and Brothers seek 10 show all of us mystery of salvation in Jesus Christ. II is how fulfilling and demanding life lived in filled, like a single piece of colored stone in­the light of the Eucharist can be! to a mosaic, lo form pari of lhe bigger pic­The Congregation of lhe Blessed Sacra­lure of Jesus Christ today. ment has nine local communities through­The Congregation of the Blessed Sacra· out I he United Stales. Since coming lo New men I (or I he Blessed Sacrament Fathers and York City in 1900, the Blessed Sacrament Brothers) is a relativelv new and small com· Fathers and Brothers have expanded their munily among lhe. Church's religious witness and ministry to Chicago, orders. The Congregation was founded in Cleveland, Albuquerque, San Antonio, Sail lhe ;ear 1856 by Saini Peter-Julian l.ake Cit)'. and other cities and towns. Eymard, popularly known as "lhe Aposlle The fire of eucharistic zeal still burn~ in of I he Eucharist," lo promole awareness of I he hearts of lhose who have followed in I he and appreciallon for the eucharistic foolsleps of Saini Peter-Julian Eymard. Pt"esence of the risen Lord. hom its hum­New generations of apostles of lhe ble beginnings in Paris, France, the Con­t:ucharist continue his work and inspira­gregation today numbers 1200 members in tion, so lhal all Christians mighl he more approximate!) 34 nations worldwide. God genuinel) men and women of I he t:ucharisl.  
EUCHARIST ISOUR LIFE Contact: Brother Zeegers s.s.s. 1335 West Hamson Street Chtcago, llltno1s 60607 (312) 243-7400 ~The Blessed Sacrament Fathers and Brothers  



. "Relatiyely speaking, ,.
Pizza Hut SpecialDelive,ry
does3 nuinberQll fie. Einstein 
©1985 Pizza Hut. Inc. 

r-------------------------------~-------------------~----~----­
The Observer 

··gQowehg {;oh aQQ or-cogio~g 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway 232-3354 
The Student Rctiuities Boor-d pr-esents: 
THE 
EXORCIST 
NOV.l AND 2 FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 7:00p.m., 9: 15, 11:30 HALL OF ENGINEERING 
• $1:50 


Thursday, October 31, 1985 -page 13 
NV A Hours 
Rockne Memorial 
Monday to FridaySaturday to Sunday 
Monday to Friday 
Saturday & Sunday 
Monday to FridaySaturday & Sunday 
Monday to Friday SaturdaySunday 
7 a.m. to 1 a.m 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. 

Swimming Pool 
7:15-9 a.m., 12:05-1:15 p.m. 3:10-4 p.m., 8:30-11 p.m.1 p.m.. -6 p.m., 7 p.m.-11 p.m. 
Fr. Lange Weight Room 
ACC 
Ice Rink 

Monday, Wednesday,Friday SaturdaySunday 
Studc:nt ID required for U8C offild.Uties 

Ifyou've been ~anting the A;erican 
Express~ Card for some time, this is some 
time to apply. 
Because if you're a senior, all you need is to accept a $10,000 career-oriented job. 
That's it. No strings. No gimmicks. 
(And even if you don't have a job right now, don't worry. This offer is still good for 12 months after you graduate.) Why is Amencan Express making the Card a can help in a lot of ways as you graduate. The Card can help you be ready for busi­ness. It's a must for travel to meetings and entertaining. And to entertain yourself, you can use it to buy a new wardrobe for work or a new stereo. 
The Card can also help you establish your credit history, which can help in your future. 
So call 1-800-THE-CARD and ask to have 
little easier for seniors to get? r-..---~-_.,.1 a Special Student Application sent 
Well, to put it simply, we be-: '·w«·KJil%'1~ I to you. Or look for one on campus. lieve in your future. And this is ' • • I The American Express·~ Card. a good time to show it-for we l:~M---~=h J j Don't leave school without it.5M 
C 1985 Am~inn Expraa Travel Rebrrd Servicn Company, In(:. 
3:15 to 11 p.m. Noon to 5:30p.m. 
7 a.m. to 1 a.m. 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. 1 p.m. to 11 p.m. 

Noon to 1 p.m. 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. 2:30p.m. to 4:30p.m. 
Wildcats OK investigation by NCAA 
~dPR:U 
LEXINGTON, Ky. ·The University of Kentucky has advised the NCAA that it would cooperate with any In­vestigation into repons that basket· ball players accepted cash and other gifts from boosters, an official said. 
"We've been advised we would receive any assistance that we deem appropriate from the institution," said David Berst, the National Col· legiate Athletic Association's en­forcement director. 
Berst said UK invited the NCAA "to participate In the collection of information" about the alleged violations. He declined to say whet· her an actual investigation by the NCAA had begun. 
Berst said that, in general, lnves· ligations involving former players can take longer than those Involving current ones unless the school In· 
volved asks  for  an  Immediate in­ 
quiry.  
The  Lexington  Herald-Leader  

reported Sunday that 26 former Wildcats said they had accepted money from boosters. The players 
also said they sold their free season tickets for Sl,000 or more each and received excessive payments for speaking engagements. All violate NCAA rules. 
UK already had announced that It had begun an internal investigation of the reports and had notified the NCAA and the Southeastern Con· ference. 
Brereton Jones, a member of UK's board of trustees, said he did not know whether the university had invited the NCAA ln. However, he said a "call for the investigation is ap· propriate." 
But, he said, "I wouldn't imagine that an independent Investigation would come up with any different results" than what appeared in the Herald-Leader. 
"I'm just very saddened. Unfor­tunately, it seems to be a sign ofthe times, not just at UK but for aU other colleges," he said. "I hope this kind of expose will help force the issue" of Improper payments In collegiate 
athletics. 
o.--l 


r--------­
----~------~ 

1 
I I The Observer Thursday, October 31, 1985 -page 14
I 
Field Hockey team routs Valpo, 9-1 
By KENT R. WELDON 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame field hockey team made its last match of the season an exciting one, as a relent­less Irish offense posted a 9-l victory over Valparaiso yesterday. This vic­tory upped the team's final regular season record to 10-6-2. 
This victory did not come as a surprise to Irish Head CoachJill Un­denfeld since the Irish downed Val­paraiso 9-0. in an early season scrimmage in which the Irish were without two starters. 
"They were all good goals, but we just weren't challenged today," Un­denfeld said. 
The Irish coach was right, as the best defense proved to be a strong offense. Notre Dame's goalies only had to make three saves on the day as the Irish offense peppered the Val­paraiso goalie with 35 shots on goal. 
Corinne DiGiacomo started the rally with a goal just two minutes into the game, and then she followed with the next three Irish goals making it a four goal outin_g. 
Melissa Sommer picked up the next three goals after assisting DiGiacomo on an earlier score. Meg McGlinn finished the scoring with two goals, while Molly McCabe had three assists. 
"Corinne and Melissa had great games for us today," Undenfeld noted. 
The Irish coach said that she was happy to see her nonstarters all get a chance to play. 
"It was hard for the substitutes since they aren't used to playing together, but they did a good job," commented Undenfeld. 
The second team fared as well as the starters, posting three of the Irish goals, but they also allowed a late second half goal which kept Val· paraiso happy and Notre Dame from a shutout. 
Undenfeld noted that second teamers Caroline Berezny, Christine Sweeney and Joanne Marshall all played well. 
"Caroline will be a strong player and starter for us next year," lin· defeld said. 
Although the Irish have finished their regular season schedule, they are not done as they will travel to the Midwest Regional Tourney Nov. 8· I 0. There the Irish will face some tough squads in Eastern Kentucky, Louisville, Southern Illinois and Southwest Missouri. 
Irish 
continuedjrompage I6 
with some of the regulars to keep the chance of a sweep from slipping away, scoring 13 of the next 14 points. Freshman Mary Kay Waller came to life to key the rally with two kills, two blocks and an ace. 
While Lambert wasn't totally happy with the play ofhis bench, he did see some play to his liking. 
"After winning the first two games, I wanted to give everybody a chance to play," said Lambert. "We had our mental lapses, but I was happy to see us come back. I espe­cially thought Rochelle Holder played well, considering it was the first she has played this season. 
Everybody will need to be ready 
Sunday for the match with DePaul. 
The Blue Demons sit atop the Norh 
Star Conference with a 6-0 record, 
while Notre Dame is next at 5-l, so 
the match will be important in 
seedings for the upcoming con­
ference tournament. 
Side Outs. . . The match 
with Indiana scheduled for next 
Tuesday at the ACC will not be held. 
The match was cancelled prior to 
the season. 
Briefs 

continued from page II 
An NV A weighttrainingworkshopwill be held Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Rockne Weight Room. Gary Weil, strength and conditioning coach, will be on hand to demonstrate proper techniques. For more information call the NVA office.-The Obseroer 
NVA interhall basketball rosters must be sub­mitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. There is a $25 entry fee for men's teams and a $20 entry fee for women's teams. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
NVA Grad and Club basketball rosters must 
be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
NVA interhall hockey rosters must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. There is a team entryfee of S35 to be submitted with a roster. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
Bruce Springsteen of comedy!" .. Boston Globe 
"I styled myself after Jay Leno when it comes to stand-up comedy." David Letterman, Playboy Interview 
late Night with Leno "To see the long lines for Leno outside the Great American Music Hall, where 1caught him this weekend, you'd ·think Joan Rivers was in town. Leno's following is also smart, upscale and can't sleep." 
Variety 

"Mr. Leno's humor was at its sharpest in its skewering of sexist im­agery in popular culture." New York Times 
PRESENTED BY NOTRE DAME S.AB. 
Tickets available at: Notre Dame S.AB. Record Store, ACC Box Office, Century Center Box Office or Charge by phone (219) 284·9111. 
Advance Tickets $10.50 • $12.50 at the door 
NV A table tennis tournament registrations 
must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. The tournament is open to students, staff, and faculty, and will be single elimination. For more information call the NVA office.-The Obseroer 
NVA squash tournament .registrations must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. The tourna­ment is open to students and faculty. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
An NVA team turkey shoot will be held Nov. 18-19 from 4:30-6:00p.m. at the stadium rifle range by Gate 14. Teams must be comprised oftwo men and two women, and reserva­tions must be made by Nov. 14. To reserve a time or to get more information call the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
NVA Century Club is a program to promote in­dividual exercise and fitness. Applicants select an exercise and pledge a personal fitness goal. When the applicant reaches his/her goal, a free Club T-shirt will be given out. To ffil out a pledge card or to get more information call the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
NVA fitness focus newsletter is published 
monthly and is available through campus mail at no expense. To be placed on the mailing list call the NVA at 239-5100. ·The Obseroer 

Bud Light Fright Night $.50 brews, t-shirts for the best costumes, end mugs to the first 500 through the door. 
~-------~ 
~t(Jt~C3L~---------------------------------------Th--u.rs_d_a.y,•O•c•t•o•b•er
__3.1,•1•9•8•5--•p•a•g•e•l-5 


Bloom County 
We MIINII&EMfHT OF mt5 Fe!ITT./{(6, IN CONJIJM:TlON Wmt ''lJ/& fl& fMCIES : f'f?e5eNTJ THe F<JUOWI!V(J II£'1?(){J(C5 !IV5Tlfi/CT/CW 
f0R7lfe ff/MIC 'S 8tAI€Fir. 
lli£1/WIY 1/Nf? fir Ct»1CS 
Rei/PeR 151/ tllfi&HIN& liN/? JO'ttJ(JS COMIC5 Ref/flfR 
50Mt MIIY WI'SH TlJ CONS</tT A fHYSICIIW 8€FORe llirfMfflN& THe,; 
EXef(C!S€5. 
lfi-JI 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
THilNK YOIJ RJf? vfJININ& f/WIVG /'B!K·W/&&1./N& "t 
f€1/CH€5 lf/15 SCHeflllt.E/? 7H€ lf(lf'1 1fiiP1 
N€XT W(Jf(KOIJT FOR TV£5f?f/Y, 

111/f'l flflf71 
Aff?lt. '!, 201'+ . 5£€ Y(}(J 7HEA/ /tWE rWRe .• !ff/f7l 
( 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Boiled grain 5 Indian tongue 9 Attic 
13 Rug type 14 A Webster 15 Blunder 17 Trick-or-treat 
garb 19 Bryant or Loos 20 Family 21 "La Boheme" 
lead 22 Trick-or-treat garb 
23 Made a white Christmas 25 -of Sundays (long time) 
27 Attention 
getters 29 Plus entries 31 Different 34 Prepare an 
apple 36 Watchdog org. 38 "King Kong" 
Fay © 1985 Tribune Media Servtces, Inc

Wednesday's Solution 

LOFT.IIILERIPEST 
E R L E AIL 0 N E A L L I ANY A FLYTHE CIO 0 P POSSE ASINIM 
WEASEL.RAF TARTAR.REMISS

~~T. EM 0 T~. S T 0 A 
OTTER.DAB.STUOY B E E R •l.B.lf P A S T • N~
IRA PIEID•T 0 A~T s
SIT.BELIEF 

A T U R E R E L A Y FlYB.NI.YNE
EARL E L IIAIS TEN N 
EPEE DE NISIE 10 RES 
Campus 
•ll:OO 
A.M. -Charity, Gift Check SaJes, Dining HaUs, Sponsored by United Way Cam­paign, 

•4:30 
P.M. · Meeting, Snite Museum, Sponsored by Student liaison Committee, 

•4:30 
P.M.-Lecture, "The MedicaJization of SociaJ Control"John O'Neill, York University, Ontario, 210 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Department ofSociaJogy, 

•6:00 
P.M.· Film, "Armingthe Air Force, Eglin AFB", lieutenant joseph Meyer, USAF, United States Air Force, library Auditorium, Sponsored by Placement Office, 

•7:00, 
9:00 AND 11:00 P.M. • SAD Movie, "Halloween", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Sl.50 


The nightmare makers 
•7:00 
P.M. -General Meeting, ISO Lounge, LaFortune Student Center, Sponsored by In­ternational Students Organization, 

•8:00 
P.M. · Recital, Robin Rice, baritone and Lee Thompson, pianist, Uttle Theater, Moreau Hall · Saint Mary's College, 

•8:00 
P.M. · 12:00 A.M. · Horror Story Marat­hon, Speakers include Father Tyson and Fat­her Beauchamp, Lawn in front ofSouth Dining Hall, Sponsored by United Way Campaign, Free, but donations will be accepted 

•9:30 
P.M.-Halloween Masquerade Party, South Dining Hall, Sponsored by Student Ac­tivities Board-F.O.B.I.S. Fest, SI.OO donation to United Way 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Broiled Strip Steak Broiled Halibut Steak Vegetable Crepes Marinara 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M.  16  NewsCcnter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
6:00P.M.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
7:00P.M.  16  MASH  
22  WKRP In Cincinnati  
7:30P.M.  16  Barney Miller  
22  Three's Company  
8:00P.M.  16  BID Cosby Show  
22  MagnumP.I.  
28  The Fall Guy  
~  34 Front  
8:30P.M.  16  Family Ties  
46  Ught For Uvlng  
9:00P.M.  16  Cheers  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  Lady Blue  
~  Mystery: "Death Of An Expcn  
Witness'  
46  Lcsca Fall Telethon  
9:30P.M.  16  NlghtCoun  

Saint Mary's VeaJ Parmesan Sweet and Sour Fish Cheese and Broccoli Potato 
BeefStew  
10:00 P.M.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
~  Masterpiece Theater: "The Last  
Place On Earth"  
46  Manna For Modern Man  
ll:OOP.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  NewsWatch 28  
~  Body Electric  
46  Lcsca Fall Telethon  
11:30P.M.  16  Tonlght Show  
22  Nightheat/CBS Late MoVie: "A  
Dangerous Friend"  
28  ABC News Nlghtllne  
~  Film Dujour: "Picture ofDorian  
Gray"  
!2:00A.M.  28  Eye On HoUywood  
!2:30A.M.  16  DaVid Letterman Show  
2:00A.M.  22  Nightwatch  

39 Tree covers AI~RightsReserved
40 Break 41 Diamond-4 Actor Linden 42 Commadla del'-5 Massad up 
43 Adhesive 44 Satisfy 47 Beauty 49 Commands 51 Sound of 
raai17A 55 Bagan to 
appear 57 Rhymester 59 Corn unit 80 Moldings 61 Oct. 31 garb 63 High point 64 Personal: pre!. 65 Old man: Ger. 66 Chip In 67 Youngster 68 "Those ware 
the-" 
DOWN 1 Oct. 31 wear 2 Alan of 
"Catch-22" 3 -evil 
6 Chamber 7 Fla. town 8 Sentence 
fillers 
9 Gats the news 10 Showy 11 Says "boo!" 12 Oz-bound pup 16 Operated 18 Arab tsar 22 Sets amounts 24 Milk product 26 Graded 28 61A lor one 30 Tiff 31 Hooter 32 Stumble 33 Smiling 
pumpkin time 35 Tabla scrap 37 Imitate 39 Situated 40 Preserver 43 Gr. phlloso· 
pher 45 Borgnlna or 
Truax 46 "-Fldalas" 48 Beaver State 50 China 52 "I cannot ­
lie" 53 Non-clergy 
54 Sea eagles 55 Brother of Bashful 
56 Jahan slept 
hare 58 Acting award 61 Success 62 Defective 


Thursday, October 31, 1985-page 16
SRorts 
Sternberg's two scores pace Irish to 6-3 soccer win over Valparaiso 
By PETE SKIKO 
Sports Writer 
Wednesday's Notre Dame men's soccer game against Valparaiso started out on a very familiar note for the Irish · slow. Mickey Cseri's indirect kick off of a restart 12 minutes into the first half put Val· paraiso up 1·0, i;)ut the Irish roared back to score six unanswered goals to put the game away, winning by a score of6-3. 
"I felt we started slowly again, and I was disappointed that we gave up the restart goal," said second-year head coach Dennis Grace. "But we came back tough and played some smart soccer." 
Joe Sternberg opened the Irish scoring at the 16:33 mark ofthe first half. He scored after Notre Dame was awarded a penalty kick for a Val­paraiso tripping violation inside the penalty box. Sternberg scored two goals and had an assist on the day, raising his team-leading goal total to nine. 
"Since the season's.halfway mark, Joe's really come into his own," commented Grace. "Once (Chris) Telk went down with an injury, we had to put Joe back to midfield, and he's made me look like a great coach because that's where he was born to play." 
Pat Szanto opened the second-half scoring off of a free kick by senior Stuart McDonald, deftly faking past a defender and firing into the corner ofthe goal. That put the Irish on top, 
2-1. 
At this point, Notre Dame began to dominate the game, as the majority of the play took place in Valparaiso's end. Junior forward Bill Gross tallied on a nice feed from Sternberg with ten minutes gone in the second half, and then Sternberg followed with his second goal. The Valparaiso goalie committed himself by going after a loose ball, but Sternberg beat him to it, flicked it past him and steered it in. 
Sophomore Bruce McCourt pushed the lead to 5·1 with 21 minutes left, taking a pass from Randy Morris and blasting it past a 
see SOCCER, page 11 

Notre Dame volleyball team beats St. Francis in three straight games 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports Writer 
It was an inconsistent, uninspiring and certaiilly not an artistic perfor· mance by the Notre Dame volleyball team to say the least. 
To say the most, it was a win. 
That's all that really mattered to the Notre Dame volleyball squad Wednesday night at the ACC, as the Irish struggled to a three-game sweep over St. Francis (ill.), 1 5· 7, 15·12, 1 5·12. 
The victory, Notre Dame's second in _a row, raised the: Irish slate to 9· 
15. Meanwhile, the Lady Saints tumbled to 24-25. More impor· tantly, it keeps any momentum Notre Dame: has rolling towards Sun­day's North Star Conference show­down with DePaul in Chicago. 
Nevertheless, the Irish will have to play much better than they did against the Saintsifthey are to knock off DePaul. Notre Dame combined flashes of brilliance with streaks of bad play to leave head coach Art Lambert with mixed feelings. 
"I'm happy with the win, but we still have too many unforced errors," noted the Irish coach. "It was ob· vious we couldn't put the ball down tonight, and that was due to a com· bination offactors." 
Not the least of which is the fact the Irish are in transition at the set· ter slot. Sophomore Jill Suglich has moved to outside hitter where she can better use her passing and defensive skills, putting classmate Kathleen Morin in the setter's role. While Morin's statistics were not im· pressive Wednesday night, it was clear she is still making progress in adjusting to her new role. 
"This was only Morin's fourth game at setter, so to ask her to do it all is a little much," commented Lambert. "She's doing a nice job, though, and we need Suglich for pas· sing and defense." 
The Irish had problems at times in both those areas Wednesday, as they were forced to come from behind fn all three games oftheir sweep. Notre Dame started quickly, bolting to a 5· 0 lead by dominating the net. Those unforced errors that Lambert men· tioned started cropping up, though, and consecutive kills byJulie Kruger and Jody McCormick rallied the Saints to a 7·51ead. 
That would be all for the Saint comeback, as Notre Dame scored the next 1 0 points to win game one. 
Maureen Shea collected three kills to key the spurt, including the game­winner, while St. Francis helped with five unforced errors. 
Game two followed the same pat· tern, as the Irish jumped to a 4-1 lead on the net play ofSuglich. St. Francis regrouped following a timeout, however, and an ace by Sheavoun Pivaronas tied the game at four. 
The Saints then proceeded to score the next five points, three of them comingon consecutive kills by Dawn Maxwell, to JO on top 9·4. That meant it was time for another Irish comeback. 
Everybody contributed to this one, as four Irish players came up with kills during a 1 0-1 scoringspurt which helped pace Notre Dame to a 15-12 win. 
Game three gave members of the small group of 92 people on hand a lesson in what eternity is. The game featured 45 side outs and a number of unforced errors, as neither team looked like they wanted to win. The Irish looked partcularly sloppy in fal· ling behind 11·2. 
By this time, Lambert had cleared his bench, and the reserves teamed see IRISH, page 14 

The ObecrvuI Patty Schnct€kr 

Notre Dame sophomore wingback Steve Lowney brings the ball upfteld against Valparaiso yesterday. Pete Skiko details the 6-3 Irish victory in his story at left. 
Only 900 tickets left for '85-'86 basketball 
Special to The Obllerver 
Any student who has yet to purchase his 1985-86 basketball ticket may have cause for alarm. When the ticket windows dosed yester­day at 6 p.m., only about 900 tickets remained, according to the estimation of Notre Dame Assistant Ticket Manager Ron Vogler. 
Freshmen are scheduled to pick up their tickets today from 1:30·6 
p.m. at Gate 3 of the ACC, and there is some chance that the ticket supply could run out before everyone gets an opportunity to buy one. 
On Tuesday, Notre Dame Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski had expressed his belief that there was no need for anyone to worry about the ticket office running out of student tickets. At that time, approximately 2,000 total tickets had been sold the first two days to the junior and senior classes, including all 1,575 lower arena seats. 
According to Vogler, yesterday's sale to sophomores, law and graduate students was about 1,400, consuming the bleacher seats in sections 103, 104, 105, 106 and all but four rows of 107. What is left for today's sale is the rest of 107 and all of 108, as well as seats in sections 115 and 116 behind the basket on the east end ofthe ACC. 
Cost ofthe bleacher seats is S39. 
Irish defense won't rest this week against Navy 
When Notre Dame takes on Navy in a nationally· televised contest Saturday afternon, the spotlight will be on the matchup between two of the nation's top tailbacks, Allen Pinkett of the Irish and Napolean McCallum of the Midshipmen. But don't be surprised lf it's the Notre Dame defense that steals the show. 
This is a unit that has slowly but surely gotten itself together over the past several weeks, after hitting its low point in a 35·17loss to Purdue a month ago. It is a unit that features a secondary that is coming into its own, a solid corps oflinebackers that is playing up to expectations, and a group of defensive linemen that are performing above and beyond the call ofduty. 
The latter group has been particularly impressive oflate, if only for its ability to cope with adversity. When left tackle Greg Dingens went down with a leg injury against Army two weeks ago, he joined right tackle Wally Kleine and noseguard Mike Griffin on the sidelines. Of those three, only Kleine has a good chance ofmaking it back this season, but that won't be for at least two more weeks. 
But even with three ofits top performers out ofaction, the defensive line has kept chugging along. The Irish defense has given up just one rushing touchdown in the last 1 5 quarters, and a lot of the credit goes to a couple of reserve linemen, as well as a new defensive formation that has made things easieron the linemen that are still healthy. 
The reserves that have held the line together lately are senior noseguard Mike Kiernan and sophomore tackleJeff Kunz. Keirnan saw his playing time reduced when Eric Dorsey was moved from right tackle to noseguard in the beginning ofthe season, but since then the injury situation has pressed him back into duty. When Kleine went down, 

Larry Burke 
Football Notebook 
Dingens was moved from left to right tackle so that Dorsey could move back to the left side where he is admittedly more comfortable. That move made Kiernan the starter at noseguard again. 
Kunz, meanwhile, has stepped in for Dingens at right tackle and is making rapid progress. In his last two games he has recorded 15 tackles. The injury problems have likewise meant more playing time for sophomores Matt Dingens and Bob Martz, and both appear to be coming along well. 
But that still adds up to only five down linemen with any sort ofgame experience, and that's not enough to run a 3-4 defense week in and week out. This is why the Irish defensive coaches made the intelligent move to 4-3 defensive alignment (or 2·5, if you prefer) that includes two outside linebackers at the defensive end spots. The alignment uses Dorsey and Kunz as the down linemen, and makes good use of Notre Dame's abundance of ex­perienced linebackers. 
One of those linebackers, senior captain Tony Furjanic, has paced the defense with 87 tackles this season. He was named Midwest Player of the Week on defentie by the As· sociated Press for his efforts in the Notre Dame's 3 7· 3 win over USC last Saturday, as the Irish held an opponent wit· hout a touchdown for the first time since a 42·0 rout of Army in 1983. Furjanic recorded 10 solos and 15 total tackles as Notre Dame's defense shut down an offense that had rolled up 93 points in its two previous games. 
Furjanic's inside help has come mainly from Mike Kovaleski and Ron Weissenhofer, while the new alignment has enabled outside linebackers Mike Larkin, Rick DiBer­nardo, Robert Banks, and Cedric Figaro to get more playing time. The results against USC speak for themselves, par· ticularly in the area of rushing defense, where the Trojans were held to 102 net yards on 34 attempts. 
Trojan quarterback Sean Salisbury managed to have a solid game Saturday, connectingon 21-of-34 passes for 191 yards, but the Irish secondary did the job when it had to. The defensive backs gave up the short pass but didn't allow themselves to get beat for the long gain, which is a big reason why USC managed just three points Saturday. 
EXTRA POINTS . Starting quarterback Steve Beuerlein will definitely be available for the Navy game. Beuerlein injured his throwing arm last week against USC, but had full rotation of the arm on Tuesday and began practicing on Wednesday. The injury occurred on Beuerlein's six-yard touchdown run in the first quarter. . The medical report is not as favorable for back-up strong safety Brandy Wells. The sophomore pulled an abdominal muscle against USC and will miss the Navy game. . · The Navy game will be carried by ABC, with air time slated for 3:30 p.m. Musco will once again be on hand to provide the portable lighting. 


