~-------------------------------------------­
Apartheid -page 6 


an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Hoop Hysteria 
Mark Howell (left), Bob Stefa~ (center), and ]obn Sullivan (rlgbt), members of tbe recently or­ganized "Students For Logan Center," display T­sbirts being sold to belp raise 11,000 for tbe 
The Ob5crvcr/Paul l'ahor'e!lky 
handicapped. T-sbirts are being soldfor 17 and are to be worn at Irish home basketball games in con· 
junction with "Hoop Hysteria." 

Waite leaves combat-tom Beirut; begins negotiations in New York 
Associated Press 
ATHENS, Greece -Anglican envoy Terry Waite, in Athens after a high­speed car ride Sunday through com­bat in Beirut, said he was "optimistic" about his attempts to negotiate the release of American hostages in Lebanon. 
Waite, the archbishop of Canter· bury's envoy, left for New York early yesterday to meet U.S. officials on his efforts to free the hostages. His one­man mercy mission was stalled in the Lebanese capital because of fighting between rival Moslem fac­tions. 
"I'm optimistic but it takes time. At least the contacts have been made and the kidnappers identified," Waite said at Athens airport. 

He arranged to spend the night in Athens and arrive in New York yes­terday aboard TWA flight 841 after a stop in Rome. He was expected to land at New York's JFK airport at 
2:20 p.m. EST. 

The Anglican troubleshooter, a bulletproof vest under his tan safari shirt, told reporters at Beirut on Sun· day that after his secret meetings with the kidnappers "we're making progress." 
He added that he expected "to be back soon." 
Waite was trapped in west Beirut's Commodore Hotel with scores of journalists for three days while Druse and Shiite Moslem militias fought savage street battles around the seven-story building. 
He was sent to Beirut after four Americans kidnapped in Lebanon appealed by letter to the Reverend Robert Runde, the archbishop of Canterhqry, to work for their release. 

The Briton made a 15-minute dash to the airport in a sedan pocked with bullet holes. Following him, as gunfire crackled around the city, was a fast-moving convoy of jour­nalists and television crews. 
Waite joked with reporters at the airport and called his dash through Beirut's streets an "invigorating ex­perience." 
Islamic Jihad, or Islamic Holy War, a shadowy group of Shiite fun­damentalists apparently linked to Iran, has claimed it is holding the American hostages. 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1985 
Egypt·claims rescue effort on airplane was justified 
Associated Press 
VALLETTA, Malta -Egypt said yes­
terday it sent commandos storming 
into a hijacked jetliner to avert a 
massacre, but the hijackers 
responded with fire grenades that 

turned the plane into a blazing coffin 
for scores ofpassengers. 
Nine of the 59 victims were 

children. One of the five hijackers 
survived the assault on the Egyptair 
jet and underwent surgery at a 
hospital, said Paul Mifsud, the Mal­
tese government spokesman. 
Prime Minister Carmelo Mifsud 

Bonnici of Malta said he approved 
the raid because "we wanted to 
show we would not give in." 
"The Egyptian forces assured us 
that this would be a quick operation 
... and that the assault would come 
to a good ending," he said. 
Mifsud Bonnici said he refused the 
hijackers' request for fuel and told 
them that "other forces" might in­

tercept the jet if it left Malta. The 
gunmen threatened to blow up the 

plane in flight ifit was "accosted," he 
said, and "we felt this was a very real 

possibility." 
Egypt blamed the hijacking on renegade Palestinians working for an Arab country it did not name. Government sources in Cairo said the country was Ubya, Egypt's neighbor and arch rival. 
Egyptian officials in Cairo said the commando unit included 80 troopers selected from special army and paramilitary police units. 
In Washington, the State Depart· 

ment said in a statement: "the United 
States supports the difficult decision 
of the governments of Malta and 
Egypt to end the brutal terrorist 
hijacking of Egyptair Right 648 .... 
We are saddened by the tragic loss of 
innocent life resulting from this act 
ofterrorism and extend our deepest 
sympathy to all those who suffered 
through this ordeal." 
State Department spokesman Daniel Lawler said that while U.S. personnel took "no part in the rescue operation, we said we were prepared to offer all appropriate as­sistance." 
The jetliner was hijacked ap­proximately 15 to 20 minutes after leaving Athens Saturday night, and in a radio conservation one of the sky 
see HIJACK, page 3 


Student senate to form committee to study restructuring 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The Student Senate discussed the structure of a committee that will examine restructuring Notre Dame's student goyemment at last night's meeting. 
Senator K.C. Culum proposed a ten member committee · six seniors and four underclassmen ­with Duane Lawrence, student body vice president, as the nonvot­ing chairman. Culum said that when the chairman does not have a vote the group's discussion will be better. 
"When the chairman is neutral it proYides a freer discussion. By not having a vote you can't affect the outcome," said Culum. "The chairman's vote tends to sway th vote's ofothers." 
Student Body President Bill Healy said he didn't think Lawrence or anyone else would ac­cept the chairmanship of such a committee. "I don't think you will 
find someone who will not throw 
their opinion in," he said.  ·  
Lawrence  was  not  at the  
meeting.  

Junior Class Vice President Dave Miklos suggested putting a f.lculty 

member or administrator on the committee. 
Culum said he thought this was a good idea but "they wouldn't have time to go to the meetings." They would only be able to check and review a restructured constitu­tion, he said. 
He added that he thinks the 
basic structure of a revised con­
stitution should be hammered out 
before Christmas. 
Miklos agreed. "We're almost out of time. There's only two weeks before Christmas and only three weeks after, before elec­tions," he said. 
Parlimentarian Brian Holst said anyone interested in restructuring should sit on the committee through a sign-up procedure. Healy agreed, saying that next Monday students could sign up in the student government offices. 
The senate also discussed the Judicial Council's role in settling election disputes. Holst said the senate should have final respon­sibility, noting, "I think accoun­tability should come back to the elected people. This body should take responsibility for decisions." 
Senator Jim Hagan disagreed. "The students are looking for a good, impartial decision," he said. They are not looking soley for a decision made by someone they can say they elected, he added. 
Miklos said partiality could be a factor on the Judicial Council. "Somebody could be partial on the J-Board," he said. 
Judicial Council Coordinator Karen Ingwersen disagreed. "Usually, political aspirations are not found on the Judicial Council and half the members are seniors. It's not a political body and politi­cal situations are not found," she said. 


The Observer Tuesday, November 26, 1985-page 2 

One ofthe best colleges in America was 
the designation recently given to Saint Mary's by U.S. News and World Report. A survey, published Nov. 25, showed that top educators had placedSaint Mary's on the midwest, far west, list ofthe nation's pacesetters in higher education. Saint Mary's was also chosen by Ted Fiske ofthe New York Times as one ofthe best buys in college education nationwide. -Tbe Observer 
Latchkey children who are home alone after school are more likely to experiment with sex than are other children their age, according to a report published Sunday on a new study. The study covered 400 middle-school children age 12 to 15 who were interviewed across the nation, the Denver Post reported in a copyright story. "Teen-agers these days don't get pregnant in motels and cars at 10 at night," educational researcher Thomas Long said. 
"Sex happens at home at three in the afternoon while Mom is away at work." The children did not say they were experimenting withal­cohol or drugs when they were asked what they do at home after school. 
Of Interest • 
Toastmasters International has organized a 
fourth chapter on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. Toastmasters is an organization devoted to teaching members how to improve their communication skills through hands-on ex­perience in groups. The most recently established chapter, Toasters III, which meets Wednesday nights at 6 in the LeMans Hall board room, also has several openings. To join Toastmasters or to obtain more information, contact Kristi Stathis or Christina Gatti at 284­5334. -The Observer 
The Madrigal Christmas Dinners will be 
held Dec. 11-13 at Saint Mary's. The 13th annual program will feature instrumenta music, singing, dancing and feasting to authen­tic 16th century delicacies. Tickets, priced at Sl2 per person, are still available from the Saint Mary's ticket office. This year, guests may attend the Dec. 10 program for dessert only. Those tickets are $5 each. Seating is limited and tickets must be purchased in advance. For more information, call 284-4626. -Tbe Observer 
All on-campus students are reminded that safety regulations regarding Christmas decorations will again be in effect during the Christmas season. The use of evergreen trees and/or branches ofthe same is prohibited in campusbuildings because they dry easily and are very flammable. The use ofcandles, other than for liturgical purposes in chapels, is prohibited also. Students should use care and discretion when using other traditional decorations such as Christmas lights and paper goods which also constitute increased fire haz.ards. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Security has suggested that betore Thanksgiving break, student cars parked on Green Field should be moved to the stadium parking lot as a precautionary measure in or­der to prevent vehicle break-ins. -The Observer 

Weather 
Gross. One word says it all for today with an 80 percent chance of showers and thunder­showers. Warm with highs in the low to mid 60s. A 50 percent chance of thundershowers and turning colder tonight. Low around 40. Cloudy and colder tomorrow with showers en­ding early. High 40 to 45. Partly sunny and cool 

on Thanksgiving. High around 40. -AP 

Design Editor........................ Thomas Small Features Copy Editor ........_Eric Bergamo Design Assistant.............. Tracy Schindde FeaturesLayout...................... K2rcn Webb Layout Staff............................... Rob Luxem ND Day Editor...................... Ray Szafranski Typesetters ...................... Suzanne Hammer SMCDay Editor.................... PrisciUa Karle 
Mary EUcn Harrington Ad.Design ............................ Sharon Emmite News Editor ........................ Mary Heilmann Mary Carol Crcadon Copy Editor ....................... Ann Kaltenbach Pbotograpber ..................... Paul Pahorcsky Sports Copy Editor ......... Dennis Corrigan Typists ........................................ Colleen Fay Viewpoint Copy Editor. Suzanne Dunbar Manra McKrcvcr Viewpoint Layout.......... Mclinda Murphy 
The Observer ( l'SPS ~'N l· -1000) is published Mond2y throu~ Fnd2y except dunn~ exam and vacation pc-nods The Obeftvcr is pubh!>~d by t~ students ofthe l'niversu~ of Notre Dame and Samt Mary's Coltetce Subscriptions may be purcha.'iC'd for J:\0 pe-r year ( JlO pe-r !>C'mc-ster) by writin~ The Observer, P 0 Box Q. Notre-Dame-. Indiana ..Mt;6. 
The Obecrvcr i!> a mrmbcr of The AMoclattd PI-cu. All reprodunion right.s are re!ir"'Ved 


Tests Unlimited will limit learning potential in class 
Tests Unlimited strikes me as the something to be lumped in the same category as radar detectors. Sure, they're legal but they still seem, well, unseemly. 
Preparing for exams by studying past tests is a legitimate method of study when they are used "(to) anticipate questions of similar length, difficulty, and time ..." which are ideal things to know about when preparing for a math test. And appropriately the previous wordS were uttered by Associate Professor of math john Derwent. 
Father Robert Austgen, assistant dean of the College ofArts and Letters, quoted in last Friday's Observer, was more cautious and "couldn't makea blanket statement" concerning Tests Unlimited. Perhaps understandably so. 
The number of problems that can be summoned up by a professor in the realm of mathematics, chemistry or electrical engineering is virtually infinite. This allows these professors to permit their students to take their tests home as souvenirs. 
The themes and literary 
devices of F. Scott If you did, your hard­Fitzgerald's "The Great earned cash is probably bet­Gatsby" are finite in num­ter placed in the hands of ber, and so are they ways to Stanley Kaplan or some ot­test for a thorough under­her such organization. standing of them. And The creation of Tests Un­hence, rare is the English limited has somewhat professor who lets tests walk legitimized the practice of out of the examination preparing for tests by study­room. ing previous examinations. 
So this leaves us with a It's existence implies that student government project the organization's sponsor, which undoubtedly favors Notre Dame student govern­those engineering, math and ment, condones this method science majors whose tests of study. I don't believe stu­deal with subject matters dent government should 
more concrete than those of the College of Arts and Let­ters. The students of philosophy, English, or other subjects with less ob­jective tests are left to fend for themselves. 
Another point of criticism is that Tests Unlimited, whether it means to or not, attempts to relieve students of the responsibility of determining for themselves what to study, assuming the professor in question to be relatively consistent in his of her test writing. 
An important aspect ofa college education is to place responsibility upon students to prepare themselves for a test they will ultimately face by themselves. 
Tests Unlimited removes the onus from the student to prepare by discerning what is relevant test material and what is not. 
By studying a previous test the student is gambling that the next test will cover the same areas. 
We didourhomework. 

Nowdoyours. 
You WJJll acomputer for college. You don't know which one to get. You're confused. You get depres.'it'd 
Don't he. 
Hecdi.JSf the answer to all vour computer prdlle~ as at ~l)lJf' campus computer center Where you 11 find ~lacint~h per.;onal computer and aselection of Macint!lih products specific:dly suitedJor students. 
The Macint~h personal computer lets }l)IJ '>'mrk f:l\ter. smarter and more creatively. The Apple' F.xtemal Disk Drive gives ~oo the power 
\C) .., AA* IJft'flJ'1 IJII.. ~ .a•llt.. ~· li'!ll .1\' I'I.'ICJ*1'"1flrJdi1111k_..11f ~·l'fl'Pflrf IJk \t... t!tlr...,l ... .I tr.&..k!IM'~<If \\.fn'-..Jil.tt-..r.altll'\ lt11. .UilJ I' hrllll)t U'rl!.,.,lfJI ltr-r\f'"""" f--"1MWO.I ~~~~'*""'.I ....lr1wu'i ••""' f ,......,. h.
. 
. 


John Heasly 
Assistant News Editor 
Another problem with the project is that it places an emphasis upon performance through the study ofpast performances rather than upon the study ofthe subject matter at hand. For example, a mastery of turbulent 
flow is attained through the study of turbulent flow. Studying past tests is an efficient way to be proficient at taking tests on turbulent flow. Granted, studying old tests is probably far and away the most efficient way to convert study time into a high test score, but it comes at a price. 
Studying tests prepares you for taking tests, and for 
taking tests only. Presumably you came to Notre Dame 
to receive an education or a vocational training, and not 
to master the limited applications of knowing the ins 
and outs of test taking. 
place itselfso solidly behind 
an effort that advocates this 
method of studying for 
finals. 

But let's give student government an "A" for effort. 
Tests Unlimited is a laudable attempt by student 
government to help the student body in the area of 
academics. 
On the positive side, if Tests Unlimited proves ef­fective, professors will undoubtedly change the con­tent of their tests at more regular intervals, and both student and professor will benefit from this new chal­lenge. 
Now, if student government can only revive the old senior exemption exam policy. 
to store and aCCt:'S.\ informaticnJ f:L'iler And the lmagt!tlriter•printer lets \OO pnnt out crisp copie. of \t)lJr \1/nrk. Lastly. there's the ~taciotaih c-~ing case Which leb yc)IJ lake ~nur ~laontcr;h s~Sit'llliATirml.'l' mur work takes mu · So go to the campus computer centl'f :uKI pick up a ~lacinlelih hmchure. 
And rememher. 1Mlt'n you hring a ~lacintclih home. • there's a good chance youll he hringing honlt' sonlt'thing else. Ik-ner grac.lt's. w 

The Observer Tuesday, November 26, 1985 -page 3 

behind the donn when they grilled hamburgers in the rain. It may not bejuly, but barbecue diehards cannot be stopped. 
Barbecue diehards 
-wrbetber rain or sleet, a soggy burger beats the dining ball alternatille any day. Guys from Cavanaugh Hall braved the chilling cold last night 

Saint Mary's joint boards discuss library hours, Little Sibs Weekend 
By K.IMBERL Y TRENNER 
Senior StaffReporter 
Debate on a change of hours at Saint Mary's Cushwa-Leighton Library was part of last night's joint meeting of the Board of Governance and the Programming Board. 
"It is a recommendation of the 

Library Council that the library 
hours continue as scheduled," said 
Sister Bernice Holienhorst, director 
of the Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
Julie Harmon, vice president of Academic Affairs, discussed •the reasons behind the council's conclu­sion. "More part time employment would be needed on Sunday mor­nings," she said, adding that "Saint Mary's would like to honor Sunday as a dav of rt>st " 

Hijack 
continuedfrom page 1 
pjrates said they were members of the group Egypt's Revolutionaries. 
Egyptian aviation authorities said Egypt's Revolutionaries is an ex­tremist group opposed to Egypt's peace pact with Israel, signed in 
1979. 
Dorothy Feigl, acting vice presi· 
dent, said the decision made by the 
library Council was not final. Stu· 
dent Body President Ann Marie Kol· 
lman concurred, saying, "We will 
look into library hours again if they 
are a problem." 
In other matters, the upcoming Little Sibs weekend was discussed. "We are trying to hit a low cost," said Jeane Heller, vice president of Stu· dent Affairs. 
This year's Little Sibs weekend is planned for March 7-9. Sibs from ages 12 to 16 will be invited. 
On the agenda for the weekend is a Merle Norman makeup ~nalysis, an· ice cream social, a pajama breakfast, a fashion show sponsored by Hud­son's, an ice skating trip, a pizza party, a movie and a mass in Holy 
Greek security police reported 97 
people were aboard Egyptair flight 
MS648, including six crew members 
and four Egyptian security agents. 
Mifsud said the hijackers never identified themselves or made political statements, but had demanded that the plane be refueled. 
Mifsud told reporters one woman, probably an American, was shot to death before the assault and her body was thrown off the plane. 
Lochmandy Leasing & Rental, Inc. 
IINational Car Rental_ 
Weekend and Weekly Specials all year round. Need transportation to get oft campus tor the weekend? check our low rates. Going on a long trip? We hove weekly specials designed for a student's budget. 
One Way Rentals Available to over 1000 locations ·at low unlimited mileage rates with no drop charges. Excellent way to get home tor vocation at reasonable prices. 
Conveniently Located at the 
We feature GM cars like this Buick Regal. 


Cross Hall. 

Also discussed was the announce­
ment by the Chapel Renovation 
Committee that plans are being 
made for the renovation of Regina 
Hall. "Regina is the starting point," 
said Kollman. "Plans for LeMans are 
in the distant future," she added. 
In other business, the board an­nounced that Toastmasters Inter­national, "an effective speaking organization conducted in a relaxed atmosphere," will soon form Toastmasters III. The new dub will be formed due to an increased inter­est in the club among students. 
Kollman illustrated the need saying, "Only 25 spots are available in each cluh" 
Galal earlier pleaded with airport officials by radio to cooperate with the hijackers to save passengers' lives. In a tape of the coversation broadcast by ABC news, Galal spoke of the killing ofan American woman and said: 
Mifsud said another woman was thrown from the plane with a head wound and left for dead. But two air­port officials who delivered food to the plane found her alive. He said the woman, "probably is American." 
Summer job program offered by alumni club 
By MARY lll:ILMANN 
AssistantNews Editor 

The summer job search may be 
easier for some Notre Dame stu­
dents next year, as the Notre Dame 
Alumni Association offers its Sum­
mer Job Placement Program for the 
fourth consecutive year. 

"What started out as a pilot 
program with just one alumni club 
participating has developed into an 
extensive job search network," said 
Charles Lennon, director of the 
Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
"The response has been excellent." 
Outlining the program procedure, Lennon explained that each of the 181 Notre Dame alumni clubs nationwide are invited to par­ticipate in the program, adding that usually approximately 1SO clubs agree. These clubs then are sent the applications ofstudents expressing a desire to work in their area, and the club tries to match the student with an available job. 
"What we do is try to place the person in the field that they've been studying in," Lennon noted. "But we make it quite clear that this is only a goal, not a promise, and that we don't guarantee placing a student in a job in their area ofstudy." 
In the past, Lennon added, stu­dents have been placed in jobs ran­ging from cooks at McDonald's to construction work to highly spe­
cialized work in their particular area 
of study. 

"That's the neat aspect of the 
program," Lennon said. "It's really a 
piece of Americana where you have 
finance majors working in a fast-food 
place and getting a taste of someth­
ing they would not normally ex­
perience." 

According to Lennon, of the 795 
applications that were filed last year, 
41 5 students were placed in sum­
mer jobs. But, he stressed, "that 
figure · may be deceptive because 
many times once people get a job, 
they forget to tell us." 

In the past, he added, applications 
were accepted during January, but 
the deadline was advanced at the re­
quest ofthe participating local clubs 
in order to facilitate interviewing 
over Christmas break. 

Although the program itself is the responsibility of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, Career and Placement Center Assistant Director Kate Dascenzo notes that her office is available to, help students par­ticipating in the program. "What we can do is assist students in developing resumes and interview­ing skills, and in offering summer position counseling," she said. 
Students wishing to participate in the SummerJob Placement Program must submit their applications to the Notre Dame Alumni Club office in the Administration Building by 5 
p.m. on Friday, Nov. 30. 

Saint Mary's plans bazaar to help ease holiday hassles 
By GREG TIJEL 
News Staff 

For the student who wishes to avoid the Christmas shopping rush, but rejects the notion of buying another Notre Dame sweatshirt for mom, the St. Nick's Christmas Bazaar offers the ideal opportunity. 
According to Georgeanna Rosen­bush, assistant director of student activities at Saint Mary's, the bazaar was started in 1979 "in order to bring in outside vendors so that the students could have a flea market for Christmas presents." 
The bazaar will run from 10 a.m. 
to 5 p.m., Dec. 2-6 in LeMans Hall. 

Rosenbush said the bazaar has ex­panded because of student par­ticipation. Approximately 75 to I 00 booths will be included in this year's bazaar, with student booths com­prising roughly half of that number. 
Rosenbush named the Notre Dame Credit Union, the Saint Mary's Student Government, the Saint Mary's International Business Club, 
BEING A PART-TIME SOLDIER COULD HELP YOU BE A FULL·TIME STUDENT. 
If you mclude CC•llege In VOU! rlans for the fururt OT VOU 're alrea.:h mcoUt-ge and gemng the moneY~~ ar. urhill bartle lcx"~k mw a near~ loca~ Anm Res.e~w unit 
Yo~.: can make o\'er Slh\_\' tor colle~e Anc 1.nthour makmj? :naJor dlsruro,"~m myour school and ~1al hie There~ a5­mwd-. a~ ~ "-'-"' mcoUegt-atd for JOI.TUTlg There s S S "-"\"'for ont-"·eek · e:-~d ·a -month Re;,er\'e r:rammg and t"'-''O:> week summe~ trai!1mg !it'S.Sk"!:.~ dun.'"lg vour four college-vear<-Plu~ twc summe~ o-am.mg r-er· •od~ t0r whiCh vou re pah:1 C'H'r $2 2l\"' h add~ ur 
It~ nvt \l(•ur ordman pan·ome Jvr either )'0-. cou:c "in.:: ur r:ramm~ m a field you m1gh: "1sh to .:-ononue m Ct''>llege Fmd our Stor b-. or call 
SERGEANT LANE 
219-234-4187 
ARMY RESERVE. BE ALLYOU CAM BE. 
and the American Marketing As­sociation as registered vendors. 
She said that limited space has forced other vendors and clubs onto a waiting list. 
As a result of this increased par­ticipation, the bazaar will offer the customer a wide variety of items such as posters, baked goods, quilts, Christmas tree ornaments, candy, and boxer shorts complete with the slogan 'I'm behind the Irish.' 
Previously, the proceeds have gone to St. Jude's, but this year's money will be divided between the Kevin Hurley Fund and the United Way. Rosenbush added, however, that St. Nick's is "not as much a fund raising deal as a bazaar." 
According to Rosenbush, booth rentals purposely are kept low in or­der to encourage participation. As a result, the bazaar only will raise ap­proximately S500, she said. 
Nevertheless, according to Rosen­bush,"the vendors are all getting to know each other, and, as a result, it's getting fun." 
Happy 21st B-Day Kay Bull-Mabel!! 
THE EARLY BIRD 



In !lew '!!Irk SUI! SUnoey H IUj)lall EOUUIJOIW C!nlt< 1.10 TEST ~PMATlON Sfi£CIALISTS SNCE 1938 CALL DAYS, EVENINGS & WEEKENDS 
1717 E. Soul'l Bend Ave. South Bend. lndoana 46637 
219) 272·4135 


----------~-----~-­
Tuesday, November 26, 1985 -page 4
The Observer 


Anti-apartheid protest continues after 1 year 
WASHINGTON -Three men, two in business suits and one wearing worn sneakers and jeans, locked arms and raised their voices in an off­key rendition of "We Shall .Overcome." 
After the customary three war­nings from police, the men were carted away in a paddy wagon, fol­lowing a script that has been replayed every working day for more than a year outside the South African Embassy. 
What began as a three-person sit­in on the eve of Thanksgiving, Nov. 21, 1984, to protest the South African government's holding of 13 black labor leaders, became a daily staging of anti-apartheid demonstra­tions in which thousands have been arrested. 
Among those taken into custody have been the Rev. Jesse Jackson; musician Stevie Wonder; comedian Dick Gregory; feminist Gloria Steinem; singer Harry Belafonte; former President Carter's daughter, Amy; Sen. Lowell Weicker, R-Conn.; and 18 members ofCongress. 
Leaders of the protests concede they have not achieved all they had 


Anti-Apartheid Network 
Fact of the Week Over 300 American Corpor­ations now support the South African Economy through direct investments and trade. 
lion ..-.no full-time llal. Lodging. • ••month. healltl co.-age. flubflc lnterelt QrOIIIP developing OOUfMI on non­VIolenCe and operating National Cool"'on on Televtllon VIolence 
national headquarter~. In Cham· 
palgn next to unlveralty llllnOta. hMorch. writing, office work. monitoring entertainment. One year commitment. 
~----217-38A-1 



---------.,I 
F~! I
I REGULAR RAX® I 
I WITH PURCHASE OF I 
I REGUlAR FRIES ANDI 
.. MEDIUM. DRINK 


IOur famous Rax roast 
beef, sliced 1 thin, piled high, and served on a 1sesame-seed roH. 
Pleaee Pftsent coupon before ordering. One 

I
coupon per person llf'r llisit Not valid in combination 
with 11n9 ocher Rax after. Olfer good at partie ipating 
RaK Restaurant•. 1/20 cent cash redemptiOn value. 
$1985 Rax Reslaurants,lnc. 
I 

I 
I Offergood I tlaru 12I 23I 85. I 
_______..
L. 
THE EARLY 
BIRD 
SDDN 
~.fl KIIPUIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER In New 'lbR Stole Stinley H ~(-Cente< L111 T£ST PREfiiUIAT10N SF£CIALISTS SM:£ !9311 CAU DAYS. EVEMHGS 6 WEEKENDS 
1717 E. Sout'l Bend Ave. South Bend. Indiana 46637 
272·4135 hoped, "but we've accomplished more in the last 1 2 months than we've been able to accomplish in seven years of traditional lobbying," said Cecelie Counts, legislative liaison for TransAfrica, a lobby group that organized the demonstra­tions . 

As of yesterday morning, 2,901 people had been arrested since the protests began, police said. The charges-demonstrating within 500 feet of an embassy -have been dropped against all of them. 
President Reagan originally opposed economic sanctions against the Pretoria government. But faced with the likelihood that Congress would approve the sanc­tions -and had enough votes to override a veto -the president an­nounced in September that he was halting most new bank loans to South Africa, banning the sale of computer equipment that is used to enforce apartheid and of most nuclear technology. 
Reagan also banned the importa­tion of South African gold coins, Krugerrands. The Pretoria govern­ment's announced earlier this month that it would temporarily stop minting the coins. 

Tbe Ob6erver/Paul Pahornky
The 'Brar alternative 
Ignacio O'Donnell found tbe LaFortune main ment ofquiet studying yesterday. lobby to be an alternative to tbe library for a mo-

Attention Notre Dame Employees 
Wednesday November 27 is the deadline for your decision regarding your Health Care Insurance. Health Plus reminds you should You choose Health Plus, You Will receive the following Benefits: 
eNo Deductibles eNo Co-Insurance Charges eNo Charges for doctor visits eNo Charges for physical examinations eNo Charges for-x-rays eNo Charges for laboratory work eNo Charges for immunizations eMany more medical services at no chargeeLargest list of physicians to choose from eOther health maintenance organizations 
being offered 
ePrescr1ption drug plan ($2 co-pay) eNo claim forms eNow you can budget your health care 
costs and know exactly what they will cost 
Health Plus seeks Your confidence and enrollment in Health Plus. We truly wish to help You and Your Family stay Well. 

HealthPiusHMO.. 
227 South Main Street Suite 201 South Bt'nd, Indiana 4()()01 

View~_o_i_n__t________T_ue-sd-ay_,N_ov-em-b-er-26_,1-98-5~-pa-ge_s 
Thanksgiving reminds us of family's importance 
P.O. BoxQ 


I am going home for Thanksgiving. Many of us, however, will celebrate Thanksgiving thousands of miles from home. It is inevitable that as we mature, we shall drift further apart from our families. Yet, this one ·day, we all yearn to be home. 
Michael Ialacci the troubadour 
Many of my fondest childhood memories are from Thanksgiving. That was one of the two times of the year (the other being Christmas) when all my cousins, aunts and uncles would gather at my grandparents' house to catch up on each others' lives. What a joyous time it was! We would gather around an old Singer piano, belting out favorite songs as my grandmother played on the worn keys. My cousins and I would play two-on-two foot­ball in the large lawn in the front of the house until someone bled (usually me). All my aunts and uncles would gather in the kitchen to visit, trade stories about their children, play euchre, and drink beer well into the evening. 
And, ofcourse, there was a feast. My uncles would bring out a long warped table and set it in the living room, placing card tables at each end because there were so many of us. We would line up for fresh chicken (alive not two days before), ham, grandma's homemade noodles, mashed potatoes and my favorites, apple and pumpkin pie. 
In my experience, Thanksgiving has always been a celebration of the family. Of course, I remember an idealized picture, but that does not diminish the fact that for one short day, we all thought it important enough to gather together for a meal. Despite all the miles and hardships that separated us, we were a family. If I have learned anything from such crisp autumn days on a farm in the middle of"God's country," it is that a family can be a real source ofphysical and spiritual nourishment. 
Such experiences, I fear, may not be as com­mon as they should be. In our generation we are facing challenges to the stbility and con­tinuity of the American family with an inten­sity never before experienced. Many of us have personally experienced the grief and guilt of a family torn apart. On this day devoted to the family, it seems proper to reflect a bit on the state it is in today. 
Divorce, a major cause of family estrange­ment, has been steadily increasing over the last twenty years. In 1960 2.1 percent of the people ever married in America were divorced. That percentage increased to 4.3 in 1970 and 9.9 in 1980. According to the latest available statistics ( 1983), the divorce rate is currently hovering at 11.6 percent, an in­crease of over 8 percent in twenty years. Im­agine, one out of every ten marriages ends in divorce. 
The number ofsingle-parent families has in­creased as well. The number of families wit­hout a married couple was 6,806,000 in 1970, increased to 8,718,000 in 1975, and reached 10,431,000 in 1980. Two years ago that num­ber was 11,476,000, an increase of almost 5 million in 13 years. 
I cite these figures not to provide any scien­tific analysis. These figures are too crude and 
ill-defined for that. Rather, I merely cite them 
k> support my concern for the state of the family. 
The decline ofthe American family can only impend the spiritual impoverishment of our children. It portends a time when Thanksgiv­ing is only another day off from work or an excuse to have an office party. We should not be casual about such a possibility, but neither should we despair. The family has weathered other storms before. The family can survive, but only if we think it important enough to struggle to preserve it. We must approach marriage and the family with the attitude that raising children is one of the most important obligations we have in this life. It is our responsibility to nurture our children in a healthy and supportive atmosphere. Only then will our children away at college yearn to come home at Thanksgiving. 
Michael Ialacci isa juniorin tbe College of Arts and Letters and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Faust should be given chance to remain at ND 
Dear Editor: 
As we all know, the likelihood of Gerry Faust coaching our football team next year is slim. But that is no reason why we should not support him. 
I constantly hear students ragging on Faust, 
especially when we lose, but when we win, 
they credit the players. Is not a football team 
the coach and the players together? It does 
not make sense. 
Faust is a great man who is trying his best 
from the bottom ofhis heart (which is difficult 
with so much criticism). I hope that when he 
is relieved of his responsibilities as head 
coach, he is given the opportunity of a good 
job here, a place that he and most of us love. 
Patrick Brennan Grace Hall 
ND mother commends 
Hesburgh on decisions 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing to you in response to Mark Pankowski's Nov. 14 article regarding the recent suspension of two Notre Dame stu­dents for violation of parietals. 
Pankowski wondered how John Q. Public (in this case, Jane Q. Public) would react if 
Doonesbury 
HI, 7HI'i I~ MARK. 5/.ACKMEYER, COMIN6 70 YOU fR/J'rl LAFA­~ PARK WITHA 5PEC!AL­

j
• L./Vl3 BRCWJ(AST OF "URBAN ~ HOMe CIJ+fPANtON." 
" \ 
they were aware of this situation. Well, here I am. 
We have two students at your school and I say to them and to you that you knew the rules would be strict when you entered this educa­tional institution and it is up to you to abide by them. Also, do not bring)esus in to try to jus­tify immorality. 
And, to Father Theodore Hesburgh, regard­ing this suspension and his sensitive handling ofthe apartheid situation, I say, "Hurray!" 
judithA. Bare Monroe, Michigan 
Intention, not the act determines morality 
Dear Editor: 

This letter is in response to Rip Elwell's ar­ticle appearing in The Observer on Nov. 21 titled "Notre Dame policies hinder our freedom ofchoice." 
I disagree with Elwell's assessment of the situation. He argues that Notre Dame should allow more freedom of choice for its students so that their actions have more moral worth. The problem is, his conception ofwhat makes an action morally good is mistaken. 
He thinks that our following Church laws and guidelines, such as those regarding pre­marital sex and abstinence during Lent, has little, if any, moral worth if Notre Dame 
"A Mf:MI!tR OflH& HOMti.tS$ 

"forces" us to comply with them through 
parietals and meals served without meat. 
Because we cannot choose between two possibilities, Elwell says, our choice is not a real choice at all, or at least not one that carries moral worth. On the contrary, any choice made with good intention is morally good precisely for that reason. 
Take, for instance, the abstinence from meat issue. True, ifNotre Dame does not serve meat in the dining halls on Fridays during Lent, we may not be able to actually choose between having and not having meat. But this does not mean that our not having meat provides no value for us. 
If we approach the meal with the right in­tention, of offering up the little sacrifice to Christ and for Christ and in union with Christ, 
SR.A;..I,& AS :..e IJ+,C 
:~ :lEE?." COIC"~E..""'. 
"IS;.(~•• 
'JJijA~ ASo,.714£p_r;M­
c;: t<E ~:E"' ~•·M:ES­
::.i--Ev.S".: 

then we derive the same spiritual benefit had we done so with meat in front ofour eyes. It is the offering itself, not exactly how the act is made (with or without meat in front of us) that makes the act beneficial. 
Indeed, if we did not eat meat that was placed in front of us but failed to offer it up with Christ, then we would derive as much benefit as going to The Huddle and eating a fish sandwich instead of a hamburger simply because we wanted fish. 
we must remember the teaching Christ gave us when he pointed out the poor widow who put two small coins into the Temple treasury. It is the intention behind the act, and not the act itself, that is spiritually important. 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the day 
"There is always room for i.tnprovement and action when people are talking to each other rather than about each other." 
PresidentRonald Reagan Address to Congress, 
Nov. 21, 1985 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
=---Ihe=-ObserYer= 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager. .... Dav•d Stephen1tcn 
P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller .................. ......... W1ll1am J. H1ghducheck 
News Editor .........................................•... Frank Upo Advertismg Manager . . J1m HaganThe Observer.•s the independent newspaper pu~ished by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager.. ... Mark 8. Johnson Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the 
s.int Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Productton Manager . John A. Mennell admm1stration of etther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb s•ble. Uns1gned editorials represent the opi01on of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor .........................................Maty HeaJy tanes. leners and the Inside Corumn present the v•ews of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expr8SS1on of vatymg op1n1ons on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Lachee campus. through letters. 11 encouraged. Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. won Founded November 3, 1966 
-







Accent 

• 
li . 

rica
~ l • 

For blacks and whites against apartheid, 'gray areas' still exist 
I 
MARYJACOBY apartheid, because with the blacks to nine bantustans, or assistant features editor declared state ofemergency, aut­homelands as the government horities have the power to arrest terms them, because "There is f there was ever a clear-cut, anyone for any act which they nothing homey about these places," black and white situation, many interpret as "disturbing the peace." Sipho said. The homelands are people believe they've found its This makes any activism on the part established in rural, scarcely arable epitome in today's South Africa, ofwhites risky, although Leibrandt areas which are located away from where government policy actively continually mentioned that any the economic centers ofthe cities. pursues rigid distinctions between sacrifice by whites is not only small Both Sipho and Leibrandt em­the black and white races. Yet in comparison to the years of phasized the lack ofrights for blacks among white South Africans who oppression suffered by blacks, but in South Africa, but it is Sipho who oppose apartheid, difficult gray also necessary to affect a solution. has personally experienced the areas persist. "The time is getting short for any degradation ofbeing a "non­Muray Leibrandt, an economics type ofpeaceful solution," person." "The South African graduate student at Notre Dame Leibrandt said. "The government government is scraping blacks of and native ofjohannesburg, said he has hardened its heart." their citizenship," Sipho said. "We cannot foresee a solution to his "Almost every act in an apartheid are presumably not citizens." country's problems until whites society is an act ofapartheid," Leibrandt, who until August, confront these gray areas and Leibrandt continued. "IfI get on a 1984, had never been outside of eliminate them. bus, I am getting on a white bus." South Africa before, had little con­
Leibrandt, one offive South He said further that people who tact with blacks previous to his 
African students on the Notre Dame attempt to change the status quo entry into the university system, campus, has grown up with quite face a "very unaccepting situation," although his country's population is different experieces than his ac­citing the fear ofretaliatory police 85 percent black. The school sys­quaintance and fellow countryman, action with which whites who tems are kept completely Sipho, also a student at Notre Dame. openly oppose apartheid must live. segregated until the college level, Leibrandt is white; Sipho is black. "The only hope for peace ... is if when a few qualil.fied blacks are Both are united in their opposition white South Africans join black allowed to attend white univer­
( to apartheid; but on account of South Mricans in making these sities. Sipho was one such black 
I. thier disparate heritages, both must sacrifices....Although these are granted permission to matriculate 
( struggles, I get very scared, but South African police seek to stop an01
combat their country's system in at a white university. different ways. black people are making these Leibrandt said that the segregated "Uving in South Africa and being sacrifices every day." Facing blacks school system further perpetuates a white against apartheid is not daily, Leibrandt said, are "vicious the cultural oppression ofthe
I 
~ easy," Leibrandt said. "There's no police, (the possibility ofbeing) blacks. A superior education is 
r , middle ground....You have to be locked in jail, and death in deten­granted to white students who pay Inequality present in Sc , either for apartheid or against apar­tion." virtually nothing, while blacks, who 
, 
theid." Leibrandt said he feels it is For Sipho, apartheid has have the least money, must pay for ( time for whites who do not ascribe translated not into a moral dilemma their inferior education. contain few employment oppor­( MARY REYNOLDS 
to the government's apartheid but rather a degrading way oflife It is through the possibility of tunities and cannot support the 
i features writer 
program tQ take a firm stand against which must be worked around. unity which the schools offer, populations assigned to them. 
( 
it, although he said also that his "When you are in a mad society, however, that grass-roots change Movement ofthe black majority
( 
opinions are atypical-for white you try to adjust yourself," he said. can come about. At the university in The word apartheid means within the country is restricted by South Africans in general. After two-and-a-half months in johannesburg, Leibrandt was part of literally "separateness." On a strict pass laws. These laws do not 
Family considerations -the desire the United States, Sipho says he is a multi-racial church and student deeper level, apartheid is the belief pertain to the white South Africans. for a normal life-cloud the issue. As still wary. "I am not even feeling organization which attempted to that the white race is superior and Violation of the pass laws can result a hypothetical example, Leibrandt safe here, because I have to go back open lines ofcommunicaton bet· its economic and poltical in fines or imprisonment. Those cited South Africa's policy ofcom­home, and you never know." ween the races and explore ways supremacy must be protected. convicted under the laws are most pulsory national service and how Unlike Leibrandt, who has never problems could_be solved. The initial inhabitants ofSouth often unemployed people seeking his personal objections to it would witnessed a riot, Sipho has seen "We could work out a response Africa were Africans. In the seven­work. cause anxiety within the family. many. "When I left, it was a bit bad, in theory," Leibrandt said. But those teenth century the country was South African citizenship is Fortunately for Leibrandt, he has really. I knew quite a number who difficult gray areas persisted. invaded by Europeans who force­denied blacks and blacks are alceady served his initial term of were arrested." Leibrandt said it was easy when the fully took possession ofthe in­prohibited from participating in the approximately a year, and now that Sipho learned about Notre Dame group decided to stop attending habitants' land. The struggle for central government. he is studying in the United States, through the same means which all-white movie theaters to display control ofthe land intensified in tht> Working conditions for hlack'l he does not have to attend annual Leibrandt did: advertising. After their solidarity with the blacks, but nineteenth century with the initia­are, for the most part, grossl) made­mandatory summer camps. But choosing Notre Dame for graduate it became harder to commit direct tion oflarge scale diamond and gold quate. Black workers are confined with the current situation, study, Sipho filed an application acts ofcivil disobedience like per­mining. The Europeans ultimately mainly to the lowest paying jobs. Leibrandt said he feels he would not with the Equal Employment Oppor­forming anti-apartheid street gained control, chiefly due to their The average income for whites last be able to serve in good con­tunity Commission and received a theater in the shopping malls -acts more advanced weapons and to the year was S8,l60. For blacks it was science. visa through the American embassy for which one can be arrested. African inability to fight as a united 
"She (my mother)wants to be a in South Africa, for South Africa "Whites don't like to tum their force, due to tribal divisions. By the 'good mom.'...IfI were still there would not grant him a passport. backs on their privileged position .. beginning ofthe twentieth century (in South Africa), I wouldn't have Sipho's family is also from johan­. At the core, whites are scared," he the Africans had been forced off gone back to the camps; I would nesburg. "Should I be found in any said. As for the future, Leibrandt almost all of the1r original have refused to go. Mother, being other place," he said, "I can't really says that he sees hope in the black homeland. afraid ofme going to jail, would stay there." leaders. "The quality ofthought of The disproportionate distribu­have persuaded me to be 'practical.' Unlike Leibrandt, whose move­the black leaders is far superior to tion ofland continues to be the In a subtle sense, it means 'Mom's ments are not restricted, Sipho that ofthe white leaders. Blacks most fundamental division ofapar­for apartheid.' must carry a "reference book" with always say they hate apartheid, but theid. Whites, who comprise 15 
"Mom's not a racist, but she's him which states where he is they don't hate whites;" Leibrandt percent ofthe present South worried -worried about retirement, supposed to be. "IfI want to go to said. African population, own 87 percent security, and it makes them (my Cape Town, legally, I have to apply Although far from home, Lei· ofthe land including the richest parents) cautious in going the full at the local administration board for brandt and Stpho are reminders that farmland and the majority ofthe way in opposing the government," a permit which allows me to stay the oppressive situation in their mines. The black majority, 85 per­Leibrandt said. "Ifyou haven't got there," Sipho said, remarking fur­country is complex and emotional. cent of the population, is confined the support ofyour family, though," ther that such permission is seldom Sipho is a fictious namefor a to the "bantustans," small fragments he continued, "it's very difficult to granted. blcu.k :Wuth African student at ofovercrowded land. push anything through." Sipho is fortunate that he was Notre Dame who spoke under the The bantustans, lacking the vast 
Caution is the current rule for issued a reference book before the condition that his real name not mineral deposits and commercial both blacks and whites who oppose government began restricting be used. centers ofthe rest ofthe country, 




Tuesday, November 26, 19RS -page 6 -7 

1therprotest qgainst apartheid 
outh Africa 
only SI.Al';. 
Inequalit) exists also in the areas ofeducation. housing, and medical care. In addition, freedom ofspeech is severly limited for anyone speak­ing out against apartheid. 
The struggle against apartheid is not new. The struggle for racial equality in South Africa has been· going on for a century. Initially this struggle was non-violent. As the government persisted in using force 
. to enforce apartheid, the liberation movement felt that they had to turn to armed struggle. 
As the current government under the leadership ofPresident Pieter Botha continues to disregard calls for the ending ofapartheid, the struggle for racial equality in South Africa will continue. 


0'Meara remembers life in 


South Africa before apartheid 
Seven to eight hundred miles feelings about South Africa. On a
TRIPP BALTZ 
away, the majority ofthe country's visit to South Africa in 1962,
features wrlter 
T 
blacks lived in an area called the O'Meara brought his wife. "The Eastern Province. "They lived in society there was a shock to her," he conflicts in South Africa have what they'd call a 'location.' But he said. ·'she found it outrageous." sparked interest and con­they'd come and work in Cape 0'Meara dt:s<:ribed tile arguments troversy all over the United States, Town for a while. They'd get passes his wife, originaHy frutn Philadel­including the Notre Dame com­and leave the location for a few phL ha.d with the people there. munity. Students have joined both years, and then go back." A black "She got into a few heated discus­sides in the current debate that man needed a pass to travel outside sions. questions American involvement in his province. the riot-torn country. The action in O'Meara's fondest memories of Signs ofthe coming difficulties this drama takes place on a stage South Africa were of the long trips were apparent in O'Meara's early over 10,000 miles distant from the he made by motorcycle. "I did a lot life in South Africa, however. He Notre Dame community. Some of ofthat in those times," he said. remembers riding with the bakery's the South Africans who lived Stretching his hands across his truck drivers to a shop owned by through the development ofevents forehead, he looked up, remember­his father in District Six, one ofthe in the ravaged land have since ing a trip he once made with a very old parts ofCape Town. The exited the stage and eventually friend to an area called the area was inhabited totally by come to Notre Dame. Transvaal. "We went to see a parish coloreds. 
Provost Timothy O'Meara priest in an isolated mission station. "It was very attractive, with nice remembers what South Africa was It was definitely a peaceful place. houses like row houses in it. But like before apartheid became a Those were very happy days." one day they took the people out of policy. Born in Cape Town in 1928, District Six. They raised their O'Meara lived in a South Africa that He once dreamed.ofbiking up to houses out ofthe ground and was quite different from the one Kenya. "After we crossed the forced them to relocate.'' that is there today. "The kind of Transkei, which means 'across the "They had destroyed where the violence that's going on now was river Kei,' we were turned back by roots of the people had been for not present when I was there," he sandy roads," O'Meara said. "Some centuries. They started putting said. O'Meara's accent is a thick ofthese areas were totally black, apartheid into practice by relocat­mixture ofan Irish Brogue and a and we were always welcome ing people. I was really saddened by 
rough Australian dialect, rolling there: that was quite a contrast." the way ideology would ride freely offhis lips as he recalled his O'Meara reflected: "That's where roughshod over people with a ealier life in Cape Town. a lot ofthe troubles have been culture oftheir own," O'Meara said. 
Although non-whites were coming lately. I guess they (the obliged to ride separate trains and blacks) were close to their tribal South Africa has raged with con­use different facilities, such as culture back then, and had not flicts between its many ethnic 
toilets, "you didn't have this infinite  developed realization ofthe ini­ groups since European founders  
segregation ofrace," O'Meara said.  quities in their nation."  reached its shores. "Any two groups  
Distinctions were made between  The school O'Meara attended  have problems between them," said  
Europeans and non-Europeans.  was all-white, run by the Christian  O'Meara. "There's tension between  
AP Photo  Brothers ofIreland. Every year their  the Afrikaners and the non·  
O'Meara lived with his family on  school performed the same Gilbert  Afrikaners, who are antagonistic  
the second floor ofa building at the  and Sullivan play, and one time the  towards Catholics." The problems  
edge ofdowntown Cape Town.  principal sent a black man out to  between whites and blacks that are  
Underneath them was a bakery  get some colored lightbulbs for the  just now becoming a major conflict  
owned by his father. "Close by my  play. "On the way back, someone  have existed for centuries. O'Meara  
father had the garages for the  arrested him. Since he was black,  feels that the blacks are beginning  
bakery. The truck driver who  and had a huge suitcase, they  to understand the situation they are  
looked after this property was  figured he must've stolen them. The  in. Furthermore, the whites'  
black." The neighborhood his  principal raised cane," added  response; their overt use ofpolice  
family lived in was mixed, meaning  O'Meara.  force and the taking ofpolitical  
colored and white, so it was un·  prisoners; has does nothing to  
usual that O'Meara's father would  Soon priests were predicting  warm relations between groups.  
have a black man watching and  when the revolution would come.  
driving his trucks.  Back then the whites had no  He remembers what a priest in  
"It was also strange to hear my  problems speaking out. "Apartheid  his parish once said, predicting the  
mother refer to him as Mr.Johnson,  wasn't a theory then, it was a cus­ revolution. The priest got into a  
that was strange for Cape Town."  tom," O'Meara explained. "You  discussion with a black man who  
Johnson, O'Meara remembers, had  weren't going up against the state."  worked in the parish. "When the  
made two holes in the roofofthe  The governmental policy of  fight comes, the priest said to the  
garage. "They were his church, they  separation by race wasn't es­ man, 'Surely you are not going to  
held services up there," O'Meara  tablished until after O'Meara had  kill me, we're friends.' The black  
Dr. Timothy O'Meara  smiled, recalling the devotion ofthe  left. While studying at Princeton in  man answered, 'I won't kill you, but  
black man.  the '40s, O'Meara had nostalgic  someone else will."  

Garner amazes ND crowd 
audience participation. He said he on top of the cards. Gamer then The funniest trick ofthe night
KEVIN KENNEDY 
wanted to show that he had nothing took a piece ofpaper with a star on was when he hypnotized a banana
features writer 
I 
to hide. I noticed that he didn't it, lit it and threw it into the urn. He and had it dance. To end the trick fyou happened to be one of the have many props. He wasn't going then asked the man what the card he had a whole bowl full ofbananas 40 or so people at Washington to make any elephants, airplanes, or was. Upon receiving an answer, appear. The next participant he Hall Friday night, you were in for a the Statue of Liberty disappear. Garner pulled out the card and it called up on stage said she wanted treat. Illusionist/Magician Bob had a star burned through it. The to see the bananas before she'd help Garner had the formidable task of Garner proceeded to tell the whole while Garner picked on his him. Garner burst out laughing at competing for a prime time audience how 14th century temporary assistant and made jokes this remark. audience against the Irish Basket· magicians ofthe king's court would about him. ball Team. have to prove themselves by giving As a finale to the evening he 
For those who did see the show, their magic powers to another The tricks that produced the called a girl up on stage and asked it was quite a treat indeed. Garner individual. So he called up a man most amazement was when he her to think ofa famous trick. Her came out and started by making wearing shorts from the audience randomly picked people to think of reply was "sawing a women in half." pocket watches appear at his finger­and told him he was going to do names, places and cards and then So he proceeded to saw the girl in tips. He proceeded to throw them some magic. They both donned proceeded to predict their halfwith an electric saw. in a bag along with a chain. When capes and hats. Garner took a big thoughts. He wrote his predictions Overall the evening was a he pulled out the chain, the deck ofcards and had his "assistant" on a chalkboard and covered them tremendous enjoyment. Garner watches were all connected to it. pick one. The man showed the up. The people then told what they kept the audience laughing the 
Gamer had no assistants and audience the card and replaced it in were thinking. Garner was right whole time as well as keeping them specifically said that he preferred the deck. Then an urn was placed with his predictions every time. in awe. 


The Observer Tuesday, November 26, 1985 -page 8 

Sports Briefs 
Phil Hersh, sportswriter for The Chicago Tribune, will be one ofthe featured guests on "Speaking ofSports," tonight at 10 on 
• WVFI AM-64. Join host Chuck Freeby with your questions and com­ments by calling 239-6400.-The Observer. 
The ND novice women's crew team took first 
place at the Frostbite Regatta in Philadelphia, Penn. this past weekend. The first-place finish was the best ever for a Notre Dame crew squad at the tournament. -The Observer 
NVA one-on-one basketball tournament 
registrations must be turned in tomOtTow to the NVA office in the ACC. The double-elimination competitions will be held Monday at 7 
p.m. on the ACC Arena floor. Separate contests will be held for men under and over six feet tall and for women. -Tbe Observer 
NVA All-nighter T-shirts are still available at a cost of S5 at the NVA office in the ACC. Shirts can be picked up from 8 am. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC Ski Team will hold a meeting Tues­day, Dec. 3 at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune little Theater. The meeting is only for those planning to go on the Colorado trip. Final payments and insurance forms wiU be collected. For more information call John O'Donovan at 283-4006 or Tony at 283-4057. ·The Observer 
The ND Weightand Fitness Club will spon­
sor a bench press competition on Sunday, Dec. 8 at a time and loca­tion to be announced. Sign-ups are being taken in the third tloor weight room of the Rockne Memorial Building, and any member of the ND/SMC community is welcome. For more information call Pat Browne at 283-2056.-The Observer 
0 bserver Sports Briefs are accepted sunday 
through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third tloor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -Tbe Observer 
Irish 11th in latest AP hoops poll 
As8oclated Press 
Notre Dame, which blew out St. Joe's (Ind.) Friday night, moved from 12th to 1 1 th in the latest As­sociated Press college basketball poll. The Irish received one first place vote and 518 total points from the AP panel. 
North Carolina, which handed 
UCLA its worst defeat ever, passed 
idle Georgia Tech to take the No. 1 
spot in the poll, which was released 
yesterday. 
The Tar Heels, who blasted UClA 107-70 Sunday night in the season opener for both teams, received 22 first-place votes-two less than Geor­gia Tech -and 1,158 points in the nationwide balloting of 61 writers and broadcasters. 
After Georgia Tech, 10 points be­hind North Carolina, the third through ninth spots in the poll remained the same as the preseason Top Twenty. 
Michigan, which won two games during the opening week of the col­lege basketball season, had nine first­place votes and 1,030 points, followed by Syracuse, 947, Kansas, 
APTopT-my 
The Top Twenty college bak81b811 teams in The Auocilted Prea pol. with first-piKe votee in pwen­theeel. thi1 aeuon·a recordland total poinll. Poinll bMed on 20-19-18·17 etc. Notre Dame opponenll 
two tlrst-place votes and 933, Duke, one first-place and 917, Illinois, one first-place and 809, Georgetown, one first-place and 791, and Louis­ville, 786 points. 
St. John's, which beat Navy -the only team to fall from the ranks of the ranked -and West Virginia in its Big Apple National Invitation Tournament regional, is the only newcomer to the poll. The Redmen, a Final Four team last year, were the only team besides Georgetown to hold the No. 1 spot last season. 
The four teams scheduled to meet in the Big Apple NIT semifinals Friday night in New York are all ranked. Duke will face St. John's, while Kansas is to meet Louisville. 
Four of the ranked teams have yet to play their first game of the season. Georgia Tech, which fell despite not playing, was the only team hurt by inaction. Illinois remained seventh, while Me'mphis State improved from 15th to 14th and North Carolina State jumped from 17th to 15th. 
Auburn and Ala.-Birmingham are the only Top Twenty teams with losses and both received theirs in the Big Apple NIT. Auburn was blasted by West Virginia 75-58, while Ala.-Birmingham fell to Duke 66-54 after beating Texas A&M 71­68 in the regional opener. 
Kentucky, which led the Second Ten in the preseason poll, improved one spot with 526 points. 
11en.licized. 
I. Nonh CNoline (22) 2. Georgi1 Tech (24) 3. Mic:tlig.n (9) 
4. S~ute 
5. K.,_(2) 
6. Duke (1) 
7. llinoil (1) 
8. 
Georgetown (1) 

9. 
LouiiVille 

10. 
Kentucky 


11. NonDame(1) 
12. Loui8iana State 13. Oldahom1 
14. 
Memphil State 

15. 
N. Cllolina State 

16. 
Nev.-La Vega 


17. Metylend 
18. 
St. John 1 

19. 
Auburn 

20. 
Ala.-Birmmghem 


1-o 
o-o 
2-Q 
1-Q 2-o 2-o 
0-0 1-o 
2-o 
1-o 1.0 1-Q 
1-o 
o-o 
o-o 
1-Q 
1-0 
2-o 
[)-1 
1·1 
1158 
1148 
1030 947 
933 
917 
809 791 
786 526 518 
471 412 378 283 243 
214 
192 
164 
156 

Irish 
continued from page 12 

This lack of height in the Boiler's front line should give 6-2 sop­homore center Sandy Botham, 6-4 freshman forward Heidi Bunek and 6-1 senior and North Star Con­ference MVP Trena Keys the chance to sweep the boards on both ends. 
In the backcourt, meanwhile, 
Irish guards Lynn Ebben and Mary 
Gavin will have their hands full 

Wrestlers 
continued/rom page 12 

captured the second Irish cham· 
pionship in St. Louis. Carl Hildinger 
was third in the 118 lb. class. 

The overall results from St. Louis 
were impressive and the impact of 
McCann's recruiting efforts are against the quick, perimeter­shooting Boiler duo of Sharon Ver­syp ( 12.3 points per game in 1984-85) and LisaJahner ( 10 ppg. ). 
After the battle with the Boilers, Notre Dame will move north to face Western Michigan, a team which finished 19-10 and made the NCAA tournament. Yes, this is the same Bronco team that the Irish demolished, 76-46, last season. But the Broncos got hot when it counted, winning the Mid American Conference tournament and getting the automatic bid. 
payingoffalready. Not only is the ex­pected wrestling talent proving it­self, but the process of gaining experience and maturing at the col­
lege  level  of  competition  is  
remarkably ahead ofschedule.  
After  several  days  off  for  
Thanksgiving,  the  Irish  will  get  

ready for their sternest test yet. The Las Vegas Invitatational will be the next journey for McCann's squad on Dec. 6-7. 
Th,· Oh.~t·rn·r '"trt· D.Jilll' ollitt· lllt.Jtnl on tht· tlur,J fl.,.,r ••I IJh•rtlllll' "tlldt·nt ( t'llll'r Jll t'Ph ti.J"IIinl J<h nt i'lll)o: Irum •I J 111 until 1 p 111 \lont.IJI throu~o:h I ntiJI Tht• lihscrr·t•r "Jmt \IJn 'oft~tt· lotJinl on till' tlurJ !lour ol IIJAA.Ir Collt·~t· ( t·ntn. Jtll'PI' ~oiJ"IIinh lr1101 I 2 \II p m until \ p m \lon ti.J\ thou~h I nJJ\ lkddhm· tor n,-,. d.l\ li.J"IIinl~ ,, -\ r 01 \II liJ.....Itil:.l.h mu.,t hl· pn·pJ1J nlhn Ill pn...un or h1 mJII < hJr~l-•~ 11 I',..," Jlt r ltH· 'hJr.ll' tn' ·r JJ\ 




Classifieds 
u.t: My father lost his Om8f18 -tch WANTED:TUDORING IN BASIC FACT: If it happens once. you know it hap­DAN.ANN.FUN.PATTY.TONY.SARA.
ATIENTION All ELIGIBILE OOMERS somewhere on campus on the Saturday CHEMISTRY.MAKE AN EASY EXTRA pens twice. PREDICTION: If it htppena MARK
Don't miU the chance of your tfe to 1:811NOTICES ot the Millisaippi game, N011ember 9. BUCK AND HELP SOMEONE eight time~. you know it happens nme LETS GET SOME BULLETS AND
SMC 4366 « drop by 351 Holy Cross Thia -tch ha great personal value to OUT.CAll ALEX.EVENINGS.289-3604. times! BAING HOME A FIRST PLACE TROPHY 
today to wish the SEXIEST REDHEAD on him. It ha a leather band, with hia com­AT TIMMES! RUSH STREET LOOKOUT 
campua, MICHELE GEARY a HAPPY pany's intitiall, WNL, on ill fiiC8. The $$$$ <: $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$IF YOU HEY, DIANE ICHNELL HERE COME THE IRISH SAILORS' 
19th BIRTHDAY!! WE LOVE YOU! THE watch alae hu hia name engraved on it in ARE GOING TO BE AROUND DURING HAVE A HAPPY THANKIOIVINOTYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082 QUAD&CO.
script: John K. Drake. Please cal 234-CHRISTMAS BREAK AND WOULD LIKE ELL'S I AYCHES CHRISTMAS FOOD DRIVE 
0363 « 284-5236 and ak f« Role if you TO EARN SOME EXTRA $$$$$$. THE W.BRADLEY SPONSORED BY S.M.C. JR. CV.SS OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & liQUOR
have any info about thia watch. Think PHONE/ MAIL PROGRAM IS JUST THE AND C.L.C. BRING BACK CAN GOODS TYPING CALL CHAtS 234-8117 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1
you! PLACE FOR YOU! PARTICIPATE IN FROM BREAKII DEC 4·18 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOliDAY INN.
CAlliNG ALUMNAE OF SMC IN AN EX· D.C. CLUB X-MAS BUS IS COlliNG!
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 
LOST• A grey Swatch with a blacll fiiC8 CITING FUND RAISING VENTURE. MORE INFO. AFTER BREAK RUMOR HAS IT THAT TESS HAS BEEN 
PREGNANT?
and two awatc:tlg.urdl. Poaibly at the SMC STUDENTS ONLY. CAllMARTHA SEEING VISIONS. 
PR<> TYPE Over 15 y-.exp. Specializ­NEED HELP?
Rockne Memorial. Wagiventomebymy _OR PAT AT 5351 TODAY!!! JOE MURPHY-THANKS SO MUCH .............. .......................................
ing in student papera. law papera. dia­Cell 234-{)363. 24-hr. hotline, counaeltng 
Hometown Honey and ha great aen­FOR ALL YOUR HELP WITH THE "FALL RUMOR HAS IT THAT DAN HAS INSIDE 
sertationt. reeume1. 2n·5833 & free pregnancy 18118.SEEKING FEMALE ROOMMATE AT
timentll value. LMge r-ard offered!!! BALLI" YOU'RE TERRIFIC! SOURCES WOMEN'S CARE CENTER
Please call Eric at 283 2558 

N.D. APTS. $112/mo. PLEASE CALL LIZ ........ HI. MR. WONDERFUL! HEY EASYTYPING 
288-6110 LOST: Silver Medal with Our Ledy on front HAPPY THANKSGIVING 
277-eo.IS 

FREE PICKUP I DEUVERY E11n $$$ f« all those books you didn't
and Santo Nino on back. I think I left it in WHO GAVE PFIANICA THE "FINAL read!! PANDORA'S WiN buy your used
the Rock on M7. If you found it please cal WORD" ON THE SEXES? ......... 
,. TYPING books M-F 11-4. or we can help you find a 

Rich at 2458. HOT LIPS: THANKS FOR A GREAT
Jec:kle 8ogge FOR SALE usedbookf«aclaaa. We'reopenM-F 11­
WEEKEND!! HAVE A NICE184-8713 6, SAT & SUN 1Q-5. PANDORA'S ia op­
$$$REWARD$$$$ LOST: UNUSUAL THANKSGIVING! AND COMPANY PS poeite CORBY'S II 937 South Bend Ave.
BLACK METAL PEN SOMEWHERE ON SA"""""AHI SHEILA'S EYE IS GETIING BETIER! NO CAMPUS HIGH PERSONAL VALUE 
TYPING DONE BY SALLY. 272-7573. Ia It True You Can ~y Jeepe fOil S44 Apptcatione f« AN TOSTAL
CALL 288-8119 OR 284·5038 WANT TO KNOW WHAT KLBSS 
through th1 U.S. government? Get the EXECUTlVE COMMinEE poertiont tre
$$$REWARD$$$ STANDS FOR?? FOR A FREE fec1a today! c.tJ 1-312-742-1142, Ext. available in the llludent government office 
DEMONSTRATION CALL BETH NIKL.AS 73111. on the MCOnd floor of LaFortune. Anyone 
SOMEHOW I ENDED UP WITH YOUR YOU DON'T HAVE TO aE BORN AT 284-4410 
interested in working I« the zanieet group
KEYS! The only problem il that I don't ANYWHERE PARTICULAR TO IPENO
LOST/FOUND I 
'83 RENAULT AlliANCE DL. 40R. on campus thould apply by December 2.
know who you 11e. If you 1oat triiCtt c:A your HALF YOUR UFE JUaT COVERIN' UP. SCAAYDEA TH-MB-I<OOlAID! Happy
5SPD TRANS. AM-FM CASSETIE. Arty queetiona? Call Kendr1 Erven at 289­
keys at a pwty in th• 832 building c:A Notre IIOeT QAY/LUBIAN COLLEGE STU­20th. Never f«get: Roedtripa to Purdue 
························· ······· ...... . LOW MILEAGE. 2 YEAR WARRANTEE, 4417.
Dame Apta. and if you -nt them back. DENTS FEEL THEY HAVE TO. MEAK Phi Delta, Party til you bruise « til you're FOUND: A woolen cap on the sidewdl in EXCELLENT CONDITION, $4225. 287­
contact Mary'Beth at 288-55n. THE CHAIN81 CONTACT QAYSI LEI­ripped'. Champange. Snakebitee. 13th
front ot the Notre Dame Pa.t Office. Mey 6493 THE BRIDE IS BACK!! 
BIAN8 AT ND/SMC, P.O. aox 114, Hoor brar, "cuz it's Uke that". ITid moet ofbe daimed in Room 8-19 Fitzpatrick« by 
FOUND: Gold bracelet in the tunnel jult NOTRE DAME, IN 48656. all-US! We luv ya! Have a great day.
caling 239-6381. 4 nx TO DENVER. DEPART 12123. THE BRIDE IS BACK!! 
outlide Haggar Center. Cal Martha at Janey B and Crispy 
RETURN 12130. $200 EA.. CALL 184-.. -...........•.................•..• ·········•·•····
284·5019 to claim. I LOVE YOU NICKI LISAHIGHSCHOOL JACKET LOST: VERY, 
24418 THE BRIDE IS BACK!! 
"On the DORK side." Teet marketVERY. VERY SENTIMENTAl!! picture ot 
THERE ONCE WAS A GIRL NAMED reaearc:tl 151--~ghter leahee... DUZNew York sllte on back-"CHRIS" on 1970 VW BUG; Runt great, looks good. 
DEBBIE D -WHO MEANT AN AWFUL AND NORK ENTERPRISES Inc. 
front-"12"on sleeve If you return it, I $550.00. Cal233-3509. REGINA HAll RAFFLE
LOT TO ME-YOU SEE SHE'S AWAY,
promise 11 make it WOfth your while FOR RENT F« new raquetblll equipment Wileon rl­
LIVING UNDER THE DOME -SO A nov1ce cr-:the woody 101181 u1 & welove
THANK YOU ! Chril 1453 ljo.Jet Willon tennis ball VOit beg Ek1elon
SURPRISE I'VE PLANNED WHEN SHE the woody. HOOiier buddy, HOOiier pal? 
glove $100 value $1.00 each ticket «6f«
GETS HOME -IT'S A GIFT THAT'S Pat we love you! Men:you h811e your
FOUND A WHITE YARN CAP SUNDAY :.s.OO Cal Jennifer 284-4092 « Mary
Nice aemi-furnilhed house in good netgh­AWESOME AND WILL BE SO MUCH choic.ue « Bunll Remember no more
1-TICKETS
EVENING IN FRONT OF DILLON HALL. 284-4081 
ba~ f« 3-255-3684. FUN-SHE'LL SAY IT HELPED GET­SYR'a but we're alii happy cam~Mn!
1431 

TING THOSE FINALS DONE -SO Gretch &Vicki Good Morning!
........ ................................... . 
HUNGRY? Cell YELLOW SUBMARINE
8 BEDROOM HOME.NEXT HURRY HOME DEB AND SET THELOST: small cameo ring on Monday One -y ticket to BUFFALO. 11/28 7am at 272·HIKE. Deli~ery houra Spm-12am
SEIIESTER.WALKING DISTANCE TO SECRET FREE MUCH LOVE AND YO DATES . 122 TRAVELOOOE . SMC
11/18 -meybe in N.Oining Hal « BP_If from S. Bend, $30 b/o 288-5334 « 272-Monday-Thurtday: 5pm-2am Friday:
CAMPUS.m-ao8 SUNSHINE. MAMA D SOPH FORMAL . VAN . BING . NICE
found. PLEASE cal 1264 REWARD 2795. 3pm-1am Saturday: 4pm-10pm Sunday. 
TIES . DUFE . KK REGULAR VIEWPT 
............................................... 
KAnE TRAXLER 18 A FREE WOMAN!! COLMIST. CRASHING B P'a .WIPEOUT 
LOST AT SMC-GOLD WOMEN'S 1985 
4 MIAMI GA'S FOR SALE Call2047 ATIENTION SOPHOMORES!!! 
. BJ'S COAT? . QUARTERS. SNORINGHIGH SCHOOL CLASS RING ON Ski Trip deadline has been extended until OAGO PARTNERS FINAL SCENE
11/8/85 -GARNET STONE -INITIALS WANTED Tuelday4 Bring your S20 dtpoeit to the
FOR SALE NAD 6040 CASSETIE .KILLR MASHIN TUNES. CONTACTS.
CAB INSIDE • REWARD CALL CHERYL C.._ of '88 office between 6 and 1 0 pm
DECK-EXC COND CALL 288-DID BETIY BUTION UP UNBUTION?
AT 284·5091 on Monday« Tuesday!
······ ............... PERSONALS 8529(1201 DIAMOND) BUT CAN WE STILL BE FRIENDS? YOU CAN HELP ME QET HOME RIGHT! WHERE WAS YOUR DATE THE 
LOST -BURGUNDY GIRl'S EYE Hippy Turlrey Dly Merle G Reppel LOO'e,
011' rou Clln tum the ..... Fridly it Dan Schlehuber'a Birthday' NEXT MORNING? APPLICATIONS FOR 
GLASSES BETWEEN THE GROTIO Mom
ltlde IIMded to WASH., D.C. I hope it it1 Qreat one Den! DATES W/ THE QUAD &CO ARE NOWBUS STOP AND FLANNER. IF FOUND 
1011 T11VInt InK. Hippy Thlnkagivmg to you too' BEING ACCEPTED CAll 4366!•
PlEASE CAll THERESA AT 284-4128. There haDe)'I been eleciTicify f« me. w ... I guess thlt Deep Throat 11pe did
John 234-7412 Lot's of love, UN 
pleeture in meeting people who cen do the tnck ... 
thinga that I c1n't. Congr1tulationa to the newest rock etar. FOUND: 14K GOLD BRACELET IN THE Molly. I thought I might blow-off your B­ELLEN NOLAN CONWAY!! Autographs LIBRARY. TELL ME WHAT FLOOR AND WANT RIDERS TO PITISBURG AREA 
MAJOR TOM I MISS YOU LOVE YOUR Dey, bull know how that ia. happy 18th. WIN be 1ccepted tonight in LeMana lot!by 8 THE DATE LOST TO ClAIM_ 4364. 11/27-12/1. CAll ELAINE 272·7245 LITILE DIGIT-HEAD Get I noeebleed. PM. 


.. 
The Observer Tuesday, November 26, 1985 -page 9 


the Tigers. Mike Szymanski profiles the consistent Wilson in his story below. 
Irish cornerback 
Troy Wilson gives consistent effort 
By MIKE SZVMANSKI 
Sports Writer 
Despite the team's 5·5 record, the 
Notre Dame defense has shown 
bright spots all season, including the 
defensive secondary play of junior 
cornerback Troy Wilson. 
As one of the players who covers the pass and contains the outside run, Wilson has played consistently all season, similar to Irish defensive play as a whole. 
"I think that my strength lies in my quickness against the pass, and my technique against the run," said Wil· son, a native of Frederick, Md. "At my position, I must assume a pass will occur on every play and if that does not develop, I react to the run." 
The cornerback must be able to read offenses quickly as the play evolves. 
-·FreeBaireuts-­our styled haircuts are only $6.00 and now we'll give you a card that entitles you to every 5th haircut free Call or walk on over­
.------------------------.
The Varsity Shop 
Open 6days Edison Rd. at St Rd 23 
Evenings until 7:30 277-0057 

CAR RENTAL 
Snappy Car Rental offers you Unlimited Miles Low Daily Rental Rates 
............. 
.....ltt'f't. 
INDIANA 


(317)147-0333
Nationwide Rnenatlons 1-800-321-7159 
$26.95-29.95 
Lincoln Town Cars 
Chrysler Fifth Avenues  South Bend  
Ford L TD's!Tempos  (219)277-6600  
Chevy Citations  
Fort Wayne  
(219)436-6666  
Indianapolis  
(317)845-9100  
Indianapolis  

"I feel that I can improve my 
strength, learn to support the run 
with better technique, and 
recognize offensive plays more 
quickly and effectively," added Wil· 
son. 

Wilson also has the hazardous job ofreturning punts on special teams. 
"I dabbled with punt returning freshman year and moved up the depth chart after injuries to Joe Howard and Alvin Miller last year," explained Wilson. "I try to get as many yards as I can straight ahead on the return." 
Wilson started two games in the middle of his freshman season, which he says forced him to learn the responsibilities of his position quickly and exposed him to a pressure situation. This was unusual on "a predominately upperclassmen team on which freshman replaced injured veterans." 
This early experience proved in· 
valuable as Wilson was third only to 
Pat Ballage and Joe Johnson in 
minutes played among secondary 
personnel last season. 
"Our defense has played consis· 
tently well from the first game," 
stated Wilson. "Our season has been 
disappointing. We had big expecta· 
tions which just did not turn out to 
be the case." 

Notre Dame gave up 294 passing 
yards against I.SU but yielded only 
10 points. 

"We gave them quite a few five· yard passes but no big plays, and that is when we are at our best," Wilson said. 
Wilson said that Marv Spence is 
the most improved secondary 
player, improving his run and pass 
protection. 

Wilson does not agree with those who say that the Irish did not play with intensity against some op· ponents. "We take every game one at a time, and we have played our hardest in each," he said. "We know many teams take us on as their big game of the season, but we are prepared for that. I prepare per· sonally during practice all week, (knowing that) if I have a good week, I will have a solid Saturday." 
The next opponent, Miami (Fla.), is ranked fourth in the nation, and Wilson sees the chance for Notre Dame to recapture some ofits pride. 
"They will be the same type of team as last year," Wilson says. "They like to talk to you and in· timidate you. "They try to force their type ofgame on a defense, but we will not let that happen. We like to dictate play. We will probably go with the same coverages with a few minor adjustments." 
Wilson, a junior business major, has learned to balance athletics and academics. However, he will con· sider playing Irish spring baseball along with spring football, which could complicate his schedule all the more. 

St. Mary's swim team prepares for season 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
The St Mary's swim team welcomes ten new swimmers, eight of whom are freshmen, and Coach Nancy Jo Kuzmitz, a South Bend native, to this year's squad. Although this is her first year of coaching on the collegiate level, Kuzmitz comes to St. Mary's with a great deal of swimming experience. A com· petitive swimmer for twenty years, Kuzmitz has been a member oflocal teams and has coached swimming at the South Bend Recreation Depart· ment, as well. 
The new coach is excited about her first season with the Belles. 
"St. Mary's is going to be a strong competitor this year," Kuzmitz said. "We have some very good swim· mers, and I'd say we even have some state possibles." 
Returning to the Belles' roster are seniors Anne Cushing and Joyce Murtagh; juniors Mary Fisher, Patricia Juckniess and Margaret Mannion; and sophomores Meghan Rafferty, who qualified for nationals last season, andJennifer Veselik. 
Sophomores Mary Hogan and Heidi Traxler are first-year team me1.1bers, along with freshmen Jen· nifer Burke, Margaret Halloran, Jen· nifer MacDougall, Sara Maurer, Bridget Murphy, Tanya Reeves, Kier· nan Walter and Anne Marie Wolf. 

Montana leads 49ers past Seahawks, 19-6 
SAN FRANCISCO · Joe Montana, 
intercepted twice in a nightmarish 
start, completed his first two passes 
of the second period on a 66-yard 
San FranciSco touchdown drive and 
the 49ers posted an important 19·6 
victory over the Seattle Seahawks in 
last night's National Football League 
game. 

On a third-down play, Montana threw to fullback Roger Craig for a 33-yard gain, and Fred Solomon caught a 27-yard pass on the next play for the game's first points. The 49ers added five points in the quarter on a safety and Ray Wersch· ing's 32-yard field goal. 
Dwight Clark, the wide receiver who broke into the NFL along with Montana in 1979, established a team record for career receptions when he caught a 22-yard TO pass from Montana in the final period. It was Clark's 408th catch. 
Montana finished the game with 16 completions in 32 attempts for 232 yards. 
With the victory, the defending Super Bowl champions made their record 7·5. The 49ers are two games behind the Los Angeles Rams in the National Football Conference West. )be &ahawks, 6-6, fell two games betJind in the AFC West race. 
Seattle averted a shutout, which would have been the team's first 

NFL standings 
NAnONAL CONFERENCE AIIEJICAN CONFERENCE bet bat w L T Pet. PF PA w L TPct. PF PA Dllllu 8 4 0 .667 254 214 N.Y. Jew 9 3 0 750 303 117 N.Y.G~w 8 4 0 .667 282 196 New England 8 4 0 .667 240 200 WUhington 7 5 0 .583 218 225 Miami 8 " 0 .667 2V8 245 Philadelphia 6 6 0 .500 200 210 lndiaMpO!ia 3 9 0 .250 214 292 St loui1 4 8 0 .333 203 290 Buffalo 2 10 0 .167 162 256 
Centrll CentNI x-chic:ego 12 0 01.000 359 127 Cleveland 6 6 0 .500 201 172 Detroit 6 6 0 .500 230 260 Pitllburgh 6 6 0 .500 272 218 
~Bay 5 7 0 .417 246 281 Hou•on 5 7 0 .417 206 270 Mii'IOMOtll 5 7 0 .417 244 278 Cincinnati 5 7 0 .417 299 325 Tamp~~ Bay 
2 10 0 .167 247 3!50 

L.A. R8iden 8 4 0 .667 274 261 L.A. Rami 9 3 0 .750 258 1118 Denver 8 4 0 .667 294 252 San Ff811111C0 ·-7 5 0 .583 294 183 Seattle ... 6 6 0 .500 267 244 NewOrleens 4 8 0 .333 220 323 San Diego 5 7 0 .417 3111 332 At.nta 2 10 0 167 218 357 KroMICity 4 8 0333 222 278 
x· cincheddivieion tiU. 
since 1982, when linebacker Sam Merriman blocked a punt by the 49ers' Max Runager and fell on the ball in the end zone for a touchdown with 1:55 remaining. The extra point attempt by Norm Johnson was blocked. 
The Seahawks refused three 
points in the first period, acceptina a penalty and a first down instead of Johnson's 44-yard field goal. They were pushed back by a penalty and a sack of quarterback Dave Krieg. and Johnson then missed a 49-yard field goal attempt. 
.Johnson also missed a 45-yard try in the second half. 
Krieg, who had thrown TO passes in 28 consecutive games before being shut out by New England a week ago, left the game in the fourth 
quarter  after  suffering  a  bruised  
shoulder.  Rookie  Gale  Gilbert  
finished up at quarterback.  

Montana was intercepted a total of three times in the first half. Two interceptions were in the opening quarter, when he completed just one ofseven attempts for a four-yard gain. 
The first interception, by comer­back Dave Brown, broke a streak of 117 consecutive passes without an interception by the San Francisco quarterback. 
The second interception was by safety John Harris in the end zone. 
f.;-eshr.&..at Kelly 0'!!::-:en serves as 
manager for the team. 

The season schedule for the Belles is quite competitive. Among the schools the team will face are AI· bion, Kalamazoo, Olivet, and North Central (Ill.) Colleges, as well as DePauw, Milligan, Valparaiso and Notre Dame. 
One of the season highlights for 
the team is a trip during Christmas 
break to North Palm Beach, Aa., 
where the team will train and com· 
pete in a meet. 

According to team co-captains 
Cushingand Murtagh, both ofwhom 
were named Academic All­
Americans last year, this season 
promises to be a successful one. 

"We have a very enthusiastic 
coach, and that helps us tremen· 
dously," said Murtagh. "All of us 
work well together. We hope to do 
well not only individually but as a 
team, also." 

Cushing hopes the Belles' season record will be more indicative ofthe team's talent than it was last year. 
"We had many individual achieve· ments last year that our record didn't demonstrate," Cushing noted. "We had three relays and two in· dividuals who qualified at nation· als." 
The Belles will open their season on Dec. 2 when they travel to AI· bion, Mich., to compete against AI· bion College. The meet is scheduled for6p.m. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
SOCIETY 
-~----~-­

, 
The Observer Tuesday, November 26, 1985 -page 10 
I 
~ 
I 
' 
( ) 
( 
f 
\ 
' 
{ I 
l 
} 
' 
j 

ND crew team has strong year; water polo also i~pressive in '85 
Everybody knows about those members of the crew team. They are the lunatics who wake up at five 
a.m. to run down to the river and freeze. They are also the ones on campus who walk around in those funny-looking jackets that have the long tails in the back. 
Sure the team is unique, but lately the members have been standing out for different reasons. 
lbe Men's and Women's Varsity Rowing Club boats have won four gold and two silver medals in three races. 
At the Head of the Des Moines, Notre Dame blew away the competition. The women's boat won both the lightweight and open races, and the two men's lightweight boats finished first and second. The men's heavyweight boat placed fourth, as did the men's heavyweight four. 
The teams then traveled to Canada for the Head of 
the Trent, a prestigious Canadian race. Out of 42 
men's boats, the lightweights placed 17th and 23rd, 
while the heavyweights finished 26th. The women 
finished 1Oth out of 20 boats. 
Finally the teams participated in the Head of the 
Tennessee. The top men's lightweight boat took a 
gold medal, and the women took a silver medal. 
The women's varsity team had the privilege this year of participating in the prestigious Head of the Charles. The team placed a strong 14th out of 30, missing an automatic invitation to next year's race by just eight-tenths ofa second. 
"This was just a fantastic season," said six-man member Liz jeszenszky. "This is the first time I ever won a medal, and we won three." 
The women's boat was coached by Margaret "Mugs" O'Hearn and coxswained by Margot Kirchner. The eight rowers, from stern to bow, are Stephanie jordan, Carol Blanchette, jeszenszky, Patty Warth, Cathy Robertson, Megan Lee, Molly Sheedy and Sue Pusek. Colleen Siegel also rowed in the Des Moines race. 
For the top men's lightweight boat, the season was also very successful. 
"This is one of our best fall seasons ever," said Le Keough. "Two gold medals is the best a boat has ever done." 
The men's lightweight boat was coxswained by 
lisa Tumas. The eight rowers are john Gibbons,john 
Crilly, Eric Adams, Todd Waffner, Chuck Lumb, 
Keough, joe Brunetti and Mike Woll. 
Things look almost too good for the club right now. Membership is increasing very rapidly, and the teams should be very strong the next few years. 
As for now, the club will condition through spring break, when the teams travel to Texas to prepare for the spring season. 

Pete Gegen 
Club Corner 
The Men's Water Polo Club wrapped up its season with a respectable S-6 record. The team first played some tough regional competition, beating Northwestern and losing to Michigan, Iowa State and Loyola, which is considered the best team in the
.. 

midwest. 
In a tournament in Wisconsin, the team took 
second, beating Northwestern and Wisconsin but 
lost to Ohio State in the final game. 
"We played well considering the competition," 
said Club President Tom O'Reilley. "It's some ofthe 
best in the midwest." 
During fall break, the Irish traveled to the East Coast for four games. They beat Boston College and Villanova and lost to Harvard and Iona. Harvard, it should be noted, is ranked in the top 20, and nar­rowly defeated Notre Dame by one goal. 
Leading scorers for the season were player-coach Mike Robertson and Steve Guenther. Other strong performers included O'Reilley, Marty Watts, Tom Cashman, John Coffey, Dave Topehin and Dick Hamm. Goalie Matt Brehm, in his first year on the team, also played very well for the team. 
The water polo team resumes play in the spring by hosting a tournament in the RolfAquatic Center. 
• 
The Women's Golf Club participated in three matches over the fall. The team's most successful outing came at the Notre Dame Labor Day Classic, where the team placed fourth out ofeight teams. 
The four golfers to score for the Irish were Laura Gleason (82-81-163), Mary Huffman (82-85-167), Angie Uoyd {83-84-167) and Cathy Logsdon (96­92-188). 
Not only has the team done well on the course but in terms of growth, the club has its largest member­ship ever. 
"Interest in the club has really grown over the past three years," noted Club PresidentJane Boland. "As a result the team has grown more competitive." 
A new addition to the team this year is Coach Tom Hanlon. Hanlon, a 1942 alumnus, played on the men's team which won the NCAA Championship that year. 
The team begins indoor practice next semester, and will play thtree matches in the spring. 

Phillips quits job at New Orleans 
AMociakd Press public relations director, Greg Suit. 
NEW ORLEANS· Bum Phillips, the Jones, Peppler and Suit were crew-cut cowboy coach of the New asked to resign by new owner Tom Or~eans Saints since 1981, abruptly Benson, who said he will work as resigned yesterday, foregoing the president and general manager. final three years and $1.3 million of "My job was to win football his contract. games. My job here was to provide a 
His son Wade Phillips, the team's winning season, and I didn't do defensive coordinator, was named that," Phillips said. interim head coach. 
Also resigning were team presi­The Saints, after winning Sunday 
New Orleans and 86-80 for his career in the NFL Benson said it was Phillips' deci­sion to resign. 
"I want you to know I didn't ask for it," he said at a hastily called news conference. "He told me he was doing it for the good of the club, the good ofthe city and for me." 

Carroll's experience a bonus to ND hockey 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN "It's hard though. A lot of people Sports Writer don't know we're playing hockey agai~. They only know the bad part, 
When the Notre Dame hockey that we dropped to club for a year. team travels to Colorado Springs, They don't know that we're back." Colo. this weekend for a pair of 
It has been in the recruiting area
games against Air Force, Tom Car· that Carroll has been of the mostroll will be seeing his 13th game as benefit to Smith.
the Irish assistant coach. So far this season, the 24-year-old Carroll has 
"It frees me to do other things," been a big asset to Head Coach Lefty 
Smith says. "Last year I was trying to Smith. 
coach as well as recruit. I was "Tom works hard and has a good 
dealing with 126 kids as well as the overall knowledge of the game," 
team." 

says Smith. "I can delegate authority and he accepts it easily. He's very This freedom for .Smith was evi­serious about his job." dent this weekend as Carroll did not 
Carroll, a native of Edina, Minn., travel with the team to Lake Forest. 
played on two state championship He was in Minnesota scouting high hockey teams as a prep player. He school players. also served as an assistant coach at 
Carrol's other duty, coaching theCulver (Ind.) Military Academy last forwards, has been helped im­year after playing on two national 
mensely by his experience as a championship teams at Wisconsin. 
player. 

Carroll looks back with excite­
''I'm trying to get them to use ment on his days as a Badger when 
their imagination out there, not to he played under two of the top 
always do the same thing," notes coaches in the college ranks, Bob 
Carroll. "I'm also trying to get them Johnson, now with the Calgary 
to show some more enthusiasm. Flames of the National Hockey 
We've got a pretty good club that League, andjeffSauer. 
has a chance to win every game. "I'd also like to give them more or­
"It was great," Carroll recalls. ganizatio~. A good club has to be or­
"The big thing (at Wisconsin) is ganized. You could really say that
football, but hockey wins a lot of I'm trying to give them a winning at­
support. We drew 9,000 at every titude."
game. It was a great experience. Winning the national championship Hopefully for Notre Dame, this at­twice was more important than titude will carry over into thescoring a goal. It ranks right up there weekend series with Air Force. Inwith some of the greatest things in recent games, the Falcons have splitmy life." 
series with Colorado College, a 
Carroll originally walked-on to member ofthe WCHA, and Gustavus the team bdore winning a scholar­Adolphus College. Their fine play ship at Wisconsin. There, he played has Smith looking forward to the with Marc Behrend, Chris Chelios trip. (members of the 1984 U.S. Olympic 
"With what has happened around
team), and Pat Flatley ( 1984 here with the Air Force footballCanadian team). All three made it to team," Smith comments, "people arethe NHL. Carroll's move from walk­beginning to realize that the serviceon player to scholarship athlete at· academies take their sportstracted Smith to him. 
seriously. They're well-conditioned"That shows he has a positive and disciplined. I'm sure we'll haveattitude and is an overachiever," plenty ofexcitement."
Smith notes. "That kind of person makes a good coach." 
Heading into this weekend's ac­tion, the Irish are beset with injuries.
Carroll's duties at Notre Dame in· Co-captains Bob Thebeau and Daveelude coaching the forwards and Waldbillig are both injured as isrecruiting. At Wisconsin, where he center Mark Anquillare. Smith saysgraduated with a degree in com­that if none of the three are able to,munity management, Carroll practice today, they won't berealized the importance of getting a making the trip. If this proves to bedegree, a fact he stresses while the case, Smith will be forced torecruiting for the Irish squad. 
juggle his lines as he did in Satur­
"I tell (a potential recruit) that day's 6-3 win over Lake Forest. With he's going to get the best education the injury to Thebeau and the emer­around," Carroll says. "We play Divi­gence of Mike McNeill as a fourth sion I hockey and he'll be able to defenseman, Smith may only use play, not sit around on aJV team. three other defenseman on the trip. 

dent Eddie Jones, director of foot­at Minnesota, are 4-8 this year. Phil­
' 
ball operations Pat Peppler, and lips was 27-42 in four-plus seasons at 
, ~~ Fly Hame ta New Yark with 
:·····Happy 18th •• 
• 

The Lanr:~l11land Club
•

! Birthday •
• 

Leaves Michiana Regional airport
•

: 0 • 
December 21 at 12:40 a.m.
•

: I • 
(a little afta midnight ya's dummies) Return flight leaves N.Y.L.G.A.
• a • 
January 12 at 10:30 p.m. 
• n • 
Fare $195
• d •
•
• 

Transportation to/from South Bend Airport included
a •
•
• 

Reservations:$ 20.00 deposit Call 2448 for details
I ~f to Rm. 33 Pangborn Hall Full payment REQUIRED by Dec. 2 

Reminder: ! 

•
•

• Summer Job Applications are due in the Alumni Office, Room 201 • by November 30. 1985•
• 


Tuesday, November 26, 1985 -page 11 
Bloom County 

Zeto 
I 
IM RE'ALL'r' eETTrNG TIRED OF Tl-115 SANe 



Ml1 MOST !MPORrANTZ.Y, I'tc. tJe seNsmv& w Y~ 

Mietl FOI( P!f?SONAl. (;f((MITH... GIVIN& Wll Pef?MISS/ON m UJOK RJI? II JO/J AFJef( YOGI f(l/ft£ ()(//? NIN£ TO 1l:N k/C'S. 
I 
You'o 


, 

SO f'!BJ5C•. WHI/T 15 IT/1/J()(ff Me 7HI11 ANY fftJASONABt.£ ~ IN 
7HIS ftJST-fGff!NIST AMtK!CA 
waltllN'T CKR~ ? W6t.t. ? 

J 
~T ND! EVB(Y WeEK WE' HAVE' TO HEA"D our f.IERE TD 0'51-!A& 'WITH 
..:­

The Daily CrosSW'ord 
ACROSS 
I "E tu -?" 3 Frtmzied 0 PEce 
14 Pitcha1 'said J 5 ';~ -to Live" 16 WAC'ro coun· 
tmpart 17 "La Boheme" 
for one 18 (;apri or Man 1~ Norsegod 20 "Fit.lliler on 
the Floof" star 22 Pownr source 23 Fencing foil 24 Parr..>ts 26 Che~s piece 30 Peep show 32 Xanadu's river 3'J House votes 3j S21nctioned 39 Travel 
industry 41 Greek 43 Passover meal 44 Ca•tsar's 

unlucky day 46 Son of Seth 47 Banquet host 49 T9mptresses 9 Willie or Ruby 51 Praye. book 10 Kid's bike 54 Youngster 11 News medium 56 Aware of 12 Sheeplike 57 Unique 13 Is ~nclined 63 Footnote word 21 Leads off 64 Fires 25 Hive feature 65 Brainstorms 26 Puma and 66 Fc·al's parent ocelot 67 Bi ·d of prey 27 Century plant 68 Vi;torian 28 Potato 
nc velist 29 Golfing 69 W11ips parties 70 Huskies' 31 Netman Arthur burden 34 Fr. lady 71 Daisy-like friend flower 36 Unit of heredity DOWN 37 Shortly 
1 Joslp -(Tito) 38 Minus 2 Cheap cigar 40 "My Friend-" 3 Addict 42 Ruhrcity 4 Beginner: var. 45 Relaxing of 5 Glossy paint tension 6 Comeabout 48 Times 
7 Skill 50 A Gandhi 8 Stare at 51 Tearful 

Monday's Solution 

11/26/85 

59 Pindar works 60 Fastidious 61 Put on freight 62 River into 
North Sea 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


·campus  ·  
•12:00  P.M.  ·  Brown  Bag  Seminar,  
"Industrial  Policy  and  Problems  of Dein­ 

dustrialization Mexico", Kwan S. Kim, As· sociate Professor of Economics, Room 13 l Decio Hall, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute 
•4:30 P.M.. Seminar, "Stem Cell Develop· ment in Cnidarians", Dr. Vicki J. Martin, Uni· versity of Notre Dame, Room 283 Galvin Life Sciences Center, Sponsored by Department of Biological Sciences 

•6:00 
P.M. · 8:00 P.M. · Ski Trip Sign Ups, Junior Class Offices, Sponsored by Junior Class, 140.00 

•7:30 
P.M.· Meeting, Amnesty International, Center for Social Concerns, 

•7:30 
P.M. · Tuesday Night FUm Series, "The Marriage of Maria Braun", Annenberg 


Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Chicken Teriyaki Baked Sole with Savory Rice Western Sandwich 

TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 
9:00P.M. 
16 NewsCenter 16 

22 22 EyewitneM News 
16 NBC Nightly News 
22 CBS Evening News 
16 MASH 22 lbree's Company 
16 Barney Miller 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 
16 The A-Team 

22 CBS Special: A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving 28 Who's The BoM ~ NOVA 22 CBS Special: The Bugs Bunny Thanksgiving Diet 
28 Growing Pains 

46 Blackwood Brothers 
16 Movie ofthe Week: "Mussolini" 
22 CBS Special Movie: 
"Doubletake" 
28 Moonlighting 

!O:OOP.M. 
ll:OOP.M. 
11:30 P.M. 
}2:00A.M. 12:30A.M. 2:00A.M. 
Saint Mary's Salisbury Steak Breaded Baked Fish Foot Long Hot Dog 
Cheese Souffle  
.  
34 46 28 34 46 16 22 28 34 46 16 22  Comet Halley Lese-a Alive Spenser: For Hire On Stage At Wolftrap Dwight Thompson NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News WSJV Newswatch 28 Body Electric Praise the Lord Tonight Show Simon and Simon/CBS  Late  

Movie: "McCoy· In Again, Out Again 
28 ABC News Ni~tline 
34 Film Du Jour: "Tarzan the Fear­leM" 28 Eye On Hollywood 16 David Letterman 22 Nightwatch 46 Independent Network News 


l
t 
~ ~ 
\ 
-i 
~.-. 
\ 
\ 

coming games against Purdue and Western Michigan in his story below. 

Irish women's basketball ready; Purdue, W. Mich. provide 1st test 
ByMARlY BURNS ing break. After the Purdue contest, The 1· 1 Boilermakers are AssistantSports Editor the Irish will travel to Kalamazoo, probably one of those teams that is Mich., to face the Broncos of Wes· worried about the Irish attack this Is the Notre Dame women's bas­tern Michigan, a team Notre Dame season after beating Notre Dame last ketball team ready to open some easily defeated last year. year. Purdue relies on a strong
I ' 
eyes this season? The Irish won many games last defense and the transition game to

~ \ 
I 
Fans will find out for sure Saturday year in rolling up a 20-8 rC"cord. make up for a lack of great height. when the 198S-86 Irish make their They did not receive a bid to the This style of play worked well last
I • I l first showing of the season at NCAA tournament, though, mostly year as the Boilers nipped Notre I \ Purdue's Mackey Arena for a match because they failed to beat enough Dame, 62-S9, but it might not be 
I\1\< 
with the Lady Boilermakers. The of the non-conference powers on enough this time around against a clash with the Big I 0 Boilers should the schedule. Those powers took taller, better rebounding Irish
d:
•· give everyone watching the first real notice later, however, when the squad. 
. '' 
indication whether Notre Dame has Irish stormed through the latter half "I think our speed is good," said 
I ' 
I , .the appearance ofa national power. of their schedule, prompting many Purdue head coach Dr. Ruth jones, "There's no doubt I like the look observers to augur even better who guided her team to a 12· 16 
of this team," said Irish head coach results for Notre Dame this season. mark last season. "Our ability to run:~ Mary DiStanislao. "We've had a "Right now is the time it starts if and play transition basketball is get­I~ good, solid preseason, and it's time we want to receive an NCAA tourna­ting better. But rebounding is a
' 

for this team to go out and play. I feel ment bid," said DiStanislao. "We majot concern because of our like we're ready to play a game." must win our non-conference games height." Actually DiStanislao's squad will if we want to get in and these first 
see IRISH, page 8

play two games over the Thanksgiv-two games are crucial." 


Wrestlers impre&sive at St. Louis; 
I 

I. freshmen lead way in tournament 
i. 
I . 
By EDJORDANICH freshmen right into the open 'divi­intimidated, and this alone is great
I 
Sports Writer sion where they faced mostly up· for so early in the season." perclassmen and wrestlers from 
Also in the open division, fresh­Remember these names: jerry some of the nation's better man Pat Boyd took third place in the
:fI 
Durso, Pat Boyd and Dean Bubulo. programs. They responded excel­142 lb. class, losing a close match to
II t. These three wrestlers are part of lently. an Oklahoma wrestler who was the I the blue-chip group offreshmen that Durso won the 134 lb. class with a eventual runnerup 
I Notre Dame wrestling coach Fran victory over a previous nationals Steady senior captain john Krug I' McCann brought to the Irish competitor from the University ofll· continued to provide leadership on I program this year. They are already linois and undoubtedly opened the mat. He finished third in the 177 I lb. class. Freshman Chris Geneser
making their mark and quickly es­some eyes in the process. With I tablishing McCann's group as a team powerhouses such as Oklahoma, and senior Eric Crown also reached 
I 
to be reckoned with in NCAA Divi­Missouri, and Illinois present, the semi-finals in their classes. \ i sion I wrestling. McCann was obviously delighted In the freshman-sophomore divi­
I 
I { This past weekend in St. Louis at with Durso's performance. sion, four Irish wrestlers reached the 
• 
the St. Louis Open, the Irish placed "The chances of a freshman win· finals. Ron Wisniewski, freshman I ten members of their squad in the ning his class in a tournament ofthis Dean Bubulo, and Dan Carrigan I semifinals or better. The tourna­caliber are pretty unrealistic," said finished second in the 142, 1 SO, and I -ment consisted ofboth an open divi­McCann. " Jerry did a real good job 1SB lb. classes respectively. In the 
sion and a freshman-sophomore and the poise and composure of all I67lb. class, sophomore Tom Ryan division. McCann took 18 wrestlers the freshmen was something that with him and threw his heralded pleased me very much. No one was see WRESTLERS, page 8
I '· 
! 

Tuesday, November 26, 1985 -page 12 
Faust deserves praise for optimistic attitude 
Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 


Hello again, everybody! 
Nice guysfinish last 

This will probably be my last column about Gerry Faust, and that's a shame in a way. Five years and 2 5 losses after he achieved his life's ambition . to become football coach at Notre Dame · Faust is about to have that dream ended. The only thing that may be sadder than seeing a man die is to see him live while his dreams die before him. 
We come not to bury Faust, but to praise him. Not his coaching abilities, just the man himself. You won't find a nicer guy than Faust­it just can't be done. Even his detractors cannot take away from Faust that he is a man ofgood morals and incessant optimism. He outgrins the cheshire cat and pumps your hand when he shakes it like he is drilling for oit 
Unfortunately, those traits do not win football games, and Gerry Faust is about to find out that is the bottom line for a football coach at Notre Dame. Faust didn't realize that when he came to the job five years ago, saying "It's important to win, but there are other aspects just as important as winning. cooperation, example, attitude, togetherness and spiritual existence." 
That's not true at Notre Dame. 
Although this university would like to think it is different than others in its athletic standards, it is not really. You are basically judged on two standards ifyou are the Notre Dame football coach. 
First ofall, do you cheat? Ifyou do, you're gone. That's a guarantee Secondly, do you win? If you don't, you're gone. That is also a guarantee. Gerry Faust has not cheated, but he has not won, and that means 
he will be gone. Faust now knows that the other traits don't matter to football fans. "Uke it or not," he says in The Sporting News, "you are judged on 
wins and losses." He has produced 30 wins and 2 S losses, along with one tie while at Notre Dame and that is unacceptable for a football coach. 
Gerry Faust can take solace in one thing, however. He has not changed his priorities as a person. He seems to have remembered the quote from the late, great Grantland Rice who said: 
When the One Great Scorer comes to write against your name He marks · not that you won or lost -but how you played the game 
Faust plays the game no differently than when he came here five years ago. While wins and losses may be what gets him fired, Faust knows there are more important things in liie. 
"I've got a lot of breaks," he said after Saturday's game, smiling in the face of the firing squad of reporters lined up to question him. "I've got my health, I've got a great family, I represent a great Univer­sity, and I get to wotk with a great group of kids. I'm happy to have 
that opportunity." It's an opportunity that Faust knows may end soon, but he is facing his fate with a public graciousness that has drawn the admiration of even his harshest critics. He answers the que_:;tions about his future with amazing patience and steadiness. "I don't even know," said Faust last Saturday of his job future. "IfI am retained, that's fine. IfI'm not that's part oflife." Few men face the prospect of being fired · and let's face it, that's what it is no matter what you call it· with such an objective attitude. Then again, few men have their job future analyzed as frequently as Faust. He has been subjected to an unbelievable amount of criticism (I have given some ofit myself), and occasionally it does get to him. "But what can I do abom a?" he laments. "When I read it, it bot· hers me for a minute, but 1 take it for what it's worth. It makes me understand what some of my predecessors have gone through. But they'll never get meta react in any way but a positive one." 
Still, the pressures show in Gerry Faust's face. The smile may still be there, but some other features belie the strain. The hair has receded and turned gray. The cheeks have hollowed. The eyes sag. The head shakes nervously. When one of Faust's predecessors, Ara Parseghian, left after 11 years and two national championships, he noted that he did not realize what the job had done to him until he looked in the mirror after he resigned. The same will probably be true for Faust. 
Nevertheless, the feature of Faust's face which will remain in nearly everyone's memory ofhim will be that everlasting grin. It is a grin that didn't even vanish from his face when he answered a loaded question at Saturday's post-game press conference by sharing a bit of philosophy with the press. 
"The score does not depict winning or losing." said Faust. "There are a lot of winners (in scoring) who are losers and a lot of losers who are winners. These kids are a group ofwinners, not losers." 
And while history won't reflect it, Gerry Faust is a winner, too. Nice guys don't always have to finish last. 



