~-------~--·-·----~~ ------------~--~~-~--~ -----~-~-~ 
Great Wall -page 7 

VOL XX, NO. 41 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1985 
' 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Revised investment policy approved 
By SARAH HAMILTON 
Edltor-ln-Cblef 
Notre Dame's Board of Trustees has refused to set a deadline for divestment from corporations doing business in South Africa, but instead is requiring them to adhere to a toughened civil rights policy, ac­cording to the statement approved Friday. 
Any company in which Notre Dame invests now must have signed the Sullivan Principles and adhere to the amplified Sullivan Principles, which demand that companies "take an active part in talking the South African government out of apar­theid," said Thomas Carney, board chairman, at a press conference Friday. 
The unrevised Sullivan Principles concern treatment of blacks only in the workplace:. 
Rather than imposing a blanket policy of divestment, the University will consider each corporation in­dividually. "We: have made the policy totally flexible," said Carney. 
" 'I don't believe in running away from a fight••.' and that is what divestment would be." 
-Fr. Theodore Hesburgh 
"We can make: the decision to divest tomorrow," Carney said. "Something horrible can happen," and the: University might decide: it has to pull out ofSouth Africa, he ex­plained. 
The policy recommends "Notre Dame will not invest in any com­pany, lending Institution or govern­ment if such an investment would support the policy of apartheid." 
Examples of such support, described by the: policy statement, are selling goods or services to the South African police, military or government. 
In addition to its statement regarding corporations, the policy states that Notre Dame will not in­vest in banks that make loans 
directly or indirectly to the South 
African government or its agencies 
or engage in the sale or trading of 
South African Krugerrands. 
The new policy further states, "Decisions as to further investment or divestment from corporations and banks doing business in South Africa will be made on the basis of both of the above criteria: genuine negotiations and the ending of apar­
theid." 
"We're going to need all the in­
fluence we can bring to bear in 
South Africa," University President 
Father Theodore Hesburgh said in 
support of the board's policy. 
"The day you divest ... you're out of the ball game. We wouldn't have any base from which to operate," flesburgh said. "I don't believe in running away from a fight," he added, and that is what divestment would be. 
Although Notre Dame has divested from ll corporations doing business in South Africa, the University currently owns stock in 30 such corporations. Carney es­timated that 10 percent of the school's total endowment fund is in­vested In businesses with holdings in South Africa. 
The University's Investment Com­mittee unanimously approved the policy and the full board supported that which its Ad Hoc Committee on South African Investments recom­mended after reviewing the Univer­sity's policy established in 1978. 
John Dettling, a member of the Anti-Apartheid Network, and Direc­tor of African Studies A. Peter Walshe, both members of the Ad Hoc Committee, dissented from the committee's final investment policy recommendation because they said it was "seriously inadequate on the central issue of divestment." 
In response to the board's deci­sion, Waishe said, "For Notre Dame to encourage corporations to remain in South Africa in these cir­cumstances, is to abdicate moral responsibility. When the dust of repression settles, our endowment funds will remain in the new apar­theid with its more flexible institu­tional racism." 
Walshe had recommended that 
see DIVEST, page 5 


A break after break 
Students decided to relax a little longerafter tbe lunchtime yesterday. Tbe music was a part oftbe mid-semester break and enjoy tbe musical enter­beginning oftbe weeklongStudentActtvities Board tainment outside South Dining Hall during Fun Outside Before ItSnows festivities. 
Students to decide senate future; Healy recall campaign continues 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
SeniorStaffReporter 
A petition requesting the recall of the student body president and vice president is approaching the num­ber of signatures needed for a stu­dent referendum while students will vote next week on another referen­dum calling for the disbandment of the Student Senate. 
"We're not out to get Healy. We just have some questions if he can be an effective leader," said Mike Vore, one of the students sponsoring a petition to recall the student body president and vice president. 
The petition states that Student Body President Bill Healy and Vice President Duane Lawrence have failed to be responsive to the diver­sity ofstudent opinion. 
Furthermor~. the petition states, Healy and Lawrence have failed to operate student government effi­ciently and to r~present student in­terests in ail ar~as ofUniversity life. 
Vore said he has approximately 800 signatures so far. The signatures of 1100 students are needed to force a referendum to recall Healy and Lawrence, he said. 
Once the necessary signatures are collected, Vore will present the peti­tion to the Student Senate which then would have to act on the peti­tion within two weeks, he said. 
"We want someone to represent the people In a more vocal way," said Vore. "We looked at the duties of the president and vice president, and felt they weren't being followed correctly." 
"We're just calling for more ef­fective student government." said Susan Yadlon, another student in-
see VOTES, page 6 


Trustees consider student committee members at meeting 
By SARAH HAMRTON Robert Wilmouth, chairman of committees it's a great first step proposal, presented at last proposal was that a student trus­Edttor-tn-Cbtef the Investment committee in the right direction," he said Thursday's meeting of the tee would not be an effective rejected the idea of a student yesterday. board's student affairs commit­avenue of student input. Those 
Students soon could be serving member because he said it would Healy said he never had been tee, stressed that a student trus­committee members who on three of the four committees be more ofa learning experience informed that the student tee would not represent the disagreed with the proposal said of Notre IJame's Board of Trus­for the individual student rather representatives who attended student body to the board, rather a student trust~e would not be as tees, as a result ofstudent govern­than a positive source ofinput for the meetings of the board's stu­a student trustee would add anot­effective as the Input the student ment's proposal for a student the board. dent affairs committee were her perspective to the governing representatives have through the trustee at the Oct. 24 meeting of Student representatives who members of that committee. "I process at Notre Dame. student affairs committee. the board's student affairs com­attend each meeting of the stu­knew that I chaired that commit­". . . a student on the Board Several trustees suggested that mittee. dent affairs committee with · tee (during the session students would be a formal recognition the two recent graduate trustees 
Dr. Martha Peterson, chair­speaking privileges are members attend) but I didn't know we that students do have a right to accomplished student govern­woman of the academic and of that committee, according to were full members," he said. participate in their governing ment's Intended goal. Kathleen faculty affairs committee and Anthony Earley, chairman of the Ifthat is the case, Healy said he system, and that, in fact, students Sullivan, a graduate ofthe class of Frank Sullivan, chairman of the student affairs committee. would like to see the student are needed in the process. As we 1978, and Terrence Keeley, a Univ~rsity rdatlons committee Student Body President Bill members included in the rest of have seen with such bodies as the graduate of the class of 1981, have taken the student commit­Healy Is encouraged by the the activities ofthe student affairs academic council, and the stu­were appointed to the board in tee member's proposal back to board's positive reception ofstu­committee. The committee dent affairs committee, students J984 for a three-year term. Sul­their committees for final ap­dent government's proposal. "I meets at least once before and can provide Important insights livan serves on the student affilirs proval. The committees also will think it's fantastic. The way this after the session which now in­into very Important issues," the committee and Keeley is a mem­discuss the mechanics of select­board is set up, it's a committee cludes the students. proposal also states. Ing such members. board. Ifwe have people on those Student government's The major opposition to the see TRUSTEES, page 5 
The Observer Tuesday, October 29, 1985-page 2 



In Brief 
An acrylic painting on canvas "Old Style­

New Style," by Don Vogl, associate professor of art at Notre Dame has won "Best ofShowAward" at the seventh ElkhartJuried Regional Exhibition. The 60 by 72 inch painting will he on display at the Midwest Museum of Art, Elkhart, until Nov. 17. Other current Vogl exhibitions include "Arora Borelis," a 60 by 60 inch acrylic on canvas, until Nov. 15 at Indiana State Museum, Indianapolis, and "Five Birds Flying South" until Nov. 9 at Uncoln Way East at South Street, South Bend. -The Observer 
Vince Willis, campus chairperson for stu­

dents Against Multiple Sclerosis, appeared on "Good Morning America" this morning in the show's opening faces segment. The show highlighted 150 campus chairpeople waving their school pen­nants and banners, all on behalfofa national collegiate effort to wipe out multiple sclerosis. The segment was shot in Miami during a leadership seminar sponsored by the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. All 150 campus chairpeople shouted, "From Miami, Good Morning America," in unison, symbolic of the camaraderie that has turned the campaign into what one student called "a movement."­
The Observer 
Edward Trubac, associate professor of 

finance and business economics at Notre Dame, has been appointed director of the Center for Research in Banking in the College .of Business Administration. The center was established last springwith the support from 20 Indiana banks. Its programs include research, lectures and seminars in financial areas. -The Observer 
Admissions counselor Father David Porterfield has been elected vice president for admissions practices of the Na­tional Association of College Admissions Counselors. His respon­sibilities during a three-year term will include monitoring relationships between the nation's secondary schools and higher education to assure the rights ofstudents in transition. -The Obser­
ver 
Of Interest 
Apartheid: the Notre Dame Response 

will be the title ofa forum and panel discussion that Flanner Hall will host on South African investments at 7:30 tonight in the Flanner Hall main lobby. Speakers will be Professor Lee Tavis, Director ofAfrican Studies Peter Walshe and Father Oliver Williams, all members ofthe Ad Hoc Committee on South African Investments. Panelists will be Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson, Associate Provost Father Edward Malloy and Professor Robert Howland. Fol­lowing the panel discussion the speakers will yield to questions from the audience. The public is welcome to attend. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will present its fall concert Friday night at 8: 1 5 in Washington Hall. Tickets are free and may be obtained at the LaFortune Record Store, tomorrow through Friday from 12:30 p.m to 4:30p.m. There is a limit oftwo tickets per person. Tickets will not be honored after 8 p.m. the night of the concert. -The Observer 
Off-campus students:The United Way campaign is presently underway and off-campus students are asked to contribute also. Cannisters are available and awaiting donations in LaFortune. 
-The Observer 

Weather 
Inspiring? That's what today's weat­her is, according to Dick Addis, WNDU's weat­herman. And what exactly is inspiring weather? Partly cloudy skies with highs in the low to mid 60s. For tonight, mostly cloudy skies are ex­pected with lows in the mid to upper 40s. And for tomorrow, cloudy skies also are expected but with a 20-percent chance of rain and highs 


in the upper 50s to low 60s. -AP 


Design Editor ..............:: ..............Tom Small Accent Copy Editor..............Eric lkrpno Design Assistant..............Tracy Schlnd<:le Accent Layout ......................... Karen Webb Typesetters ......................Suzanne Hammer ND Day Editor......................... Doug Hasler 
Macy EUen Harrington SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle News Editor ............................. Scott Btarby Ad Design ............................Sharon Emmitt Copy Editor....................... Mark Pankowski Macy Carol Creadon Sports Copy Editor ...... Eric Scheuermann Photographer ..................... Paul Pahoresky Vkwpoint Copy Editor ..........Sue Dunbar Typists ........................................CoUttn Foy Viewpoint Layout .................... Miriam Hill Maura McKeever 
The Observer ( l 'SPS ~99 .!·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during <"Xam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the studentsofthe l'niversity of Notre Dam.-and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for SW per y.-ar ( J.!O per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 
-16~'>6. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. Ail reproduction rights are 

reSt"rved. 

Student government mid-term quiz shows less tha~ flattering marks 
OK, now that everyone's back from break, it's time for a quiz: Student government is (supposed to be): 
Amy

A. An organization through which students can or­ganize various events and thereby aid the struggling so­
Stephan
cial life on campus. 

B. An organization representing student concerns Managing Editor before the administration, Board of Trustees and 

outside groups. ------------------­
C. An organization providing good material for a select group ofstudents' resumes, but basically. ignored It wasn't until the recent leadership conference that by other students. our elected officials realized that in order for one to be a 
H you're turning the page, you obviously picked op-leader, one must actually lead. tion C. You're sick and tired of reading about student So after the confer~nce, they took a stab at leading. government. They marched up to The Observer with a petition to 
Go ahead and turn to The Far Side, if you like, but disband the Student Senate, one hour after a senate please don't sign the petition now circulating which meeting at which no mention was made ofthe soon-to­asks for a recall election. Ifyou don't care what student be-descending guillotine. government does or does not do, a recall election will This attempt was admittedly clumsy and perhaps a bit 
produce no change. PoLITICAL LARYNGITIS rash, but let's not be too For those who chose op-harsh. After all, this was, for tion A or B, you didn't fail some of them, their first at-the quiz, but your grade tempt at leading. One can­can't be established yet. not expect full-blooming Why? There is no consensus roses to spring from a void. as to what the answer should STUDENT BOOY Perhaps their next at-be. / tempt will be better. Per-No one seems to have a haps not clear idea of what student STUO£NT You c~uld wait patiently government is supposed to GOVERNMENT for leaders to learn their jobs do, least of all many student now that their terms are half leaders. And until recently over. But if you haven't no one seemed to care. flipped to The Far Side by This year's "leaders" were now, chances are you won't elected on the usual plat-sit back and wait for student form ofplacebos. Ih a debate A government to recover its last spring, Bill Healy said his A I'!Mll( voice. Chances are you've number one priority as stu-11 loiEJitiiDI.T come to realize what Notre dent body president would Dame students historically be to improve the social life have not realized; student on campus. Obviously, he thought the function of stu-government belongs to the students and without their dent government leaned toward choice A He was support it is powerless. elected. Many branches of student government are respon­sible for planning certain social events. But student Now, halfway through his term, he is being told he is government's most important duty is one that is unique also responsible for option B. unto itself; representing student concerns and working Students rights were trampled upon in the Dillon tail­to effect necessary change. This is where our student gater incident. Nothing has been done. But student leaders have failed. government is looking into it. Students recently have needed a channel through Students are upset about apartheid. Student govern­which they could be heard, and our current leaders ment has not adequately voiced students' complaints in have not provided this. So students are actively involv­this area, and some would claim it has helped muzzle ing themselves in an attempt to change student govern­them. ment. Suddenly students are looking toward student Such an infusion of student concern into student government as a powerful voice through which they government cannot be bad. A recall election either will can effect change. They are finding student government provide the ·student body with new, and we hope more tms laryngitis. effective, student leaders, or force Lawrence and Healy We cannot blame student leaders for this illness. to reaffirm their commitment to the student body. After all, they thought they were elected to provide a Either way the students end up with a more effective better social life, and rumor has it their victory party government, a government that does much more than was a good time. embellish the resumes of its leaders. 

..:., ADULTCHILDRENOF (,~ ALCOHOLIC PARENTS 
lion seeking full-time staff. 

~ a•d odae,.. co•cer~~ed do•tpeople llllda drfflldfl• proltle,...
Lodging, $150/month, health coverage. Public Interest group developing courses on non­
oNO~'IS 5:45-6:45pm 
violence and operating Notional 
M Counseling & Psychological
Coalition on Television VIolence national headquarters. In Cham­
Services Center Room 316 
paign next to University Illinois. Reseatch. writing, office work, 
Does someone significant to you hove a drinking problem? monitoring entertainment. One 
Does It affect you? Maybe we con help 
year commitment. 

Cal/239-5085 and ask {or Peggy or Michael 
~----217-384-1 
BANKING... ONCAMPUSATSMNTMARVS 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 hr. banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday-11:00 a.m. -4:00p.m. ~ source 
Join Michiana's 1stTeam ~Bank for unsurpa~sed banking service! Member F.D.I.C. 

The Observer Tuesday, October 29, 1985-page 3 
USA Today publisher to visit SMC 

Special to The Obeena 
Cathleen Black, publisher of USA 
Today, will be executive-In· 
residence at Saint Mary's Nov. 1. 
Black, who joined USA Today as 
president and became a member of 
the Gannett Management Commit· 
tee In 1983, will speak at a luncheon 
of the College's Business Associates 
and will lecture to business stu­
dents. 
Blackwas promoted to USA Today 
publisher lnjune, 1984. 
USA Today, which hit the presses three years ago with the goal of be­coming the nation's only national general interest daily newspaper, is known for Its heavy dose of human interest stories, two pages of state· by-state news briefs, a giant sports section, a consumer-oriented busi­ness section, and a hard news sec­tion that Is famous for reducing almost every story to five or six short paragraphs. 
-Gannett Co., Inc., parentcompany of USA Today and largest media 
Mazzoli: Students ready for public service 

By KATIE CRONIN 
News Staff 
Congressman Roman Mazzoli was one of the many alumni on campus for the Acmy football weekend, but instead of spending his Friday after­noon In the bookstore updating his Notre Dame wardrobe, Mazzoli spoke to students about the Univer­sity's role In preparing them to be public servants. 
Mazzoli, a U.S. representative from Kentucky since 1970, described the role of public servant as "demanding, but rewarding," and said he believed Notre Dame stu­dents are well prepared socially, in­tellectually, and morally to play such a role. 
Mazzoli, on campus to receive the Rev. john J. Cavanaugh CSC Award, noted that Notre Dame students benefit not only from a strong 




Join the Campus Search! 
We're lookingfor a college man to feature in our EnglishLeather® Musk advertising. 
Win cash, prizes, and an all-expense­paid trip to 
New York. 
Kerry DeGroot. The 1985 English Leather Musk Man. 
Do you know a guy on campus who represents the "bold/shy" appeal of English Leather,R Musk Cologne? Send (or have him send) his photo, name and address, and the name of his college to Campus Search, English Leather, c/o the Editor-in­Chief of this newspaper. That's all! It's fun, exciting and it just may be that your nominee or you yourself will end up in the English LeatherR Musk advertising in 1986. There will be a finalist from your campus as well as a national winner. Nothing to buy, no obligations of any kind. 
Photos must be received by the editors of this newspaper by November 22nd, 1985. Be sure you write entrant's name, address, phone number, and the name of the college he attends on the back of the photograph you enter. 
Complete rules are available from the Editor-in-Chief of this newspaper. 

company in the United States, 
publishes 87 daily newspapers, in· 
eluding USA Today, and 381 non­
dailies. 
Gannett also operates six 
television and 14 radio stations and 
the largest outdooradvertisingcom­
pany in North American. 
USA Today has an operating deficit which the company predicts will approach 1350 million. Several publishing and advertising veterans, however, agree that Black has the ability to pull the paper out of the red. 
USA Today almost has doubled Its advertising revenues in the last year, and is now the number three paper in circulation. 
Black joined USA Today from a position as the first woman publis­her ofa weekly consumer magazine, New York, which she helped turn Into a highly profitable publication. Agraduate ofTrinity College In Was­hington D.C., she previously served as associate publisher of Ms. magazine. 

Also a member of the Advertising Council's Board of Directors, Black recently was selected as The Out· 
standing Newspaper Executive by 

Cathleen Black 

The Gallagher Report. In the fa1J of 1984, she received NOW's Legal Defense Education Fund Equal Op­portunity Award and earlier that year, the Catalyst Award, presented annually to four women who have made Impressive strides In the cor­porate world. 
education, but also from the religious influence and tradition that is unique to the University. 
He said the pervasive influence of the Church also Is a strong factor In shaping character. 
Because the best public servant Is the one who bases his decisions on the needs ofhis fellow man, Mazzoli said the Notre Dame student's ex­periences and moral and religious attitudes make him an excellent can­didate for a career in public service. 
He noted that this year there are three freshman congressmen on Capitol Hill with Notre Dame back­grounds. 
Mazzoli also spoke about changes he'd like to see made In the structure of Congress. He criticized what he saw as an overbundance ofcongres­sional committees and sui!Bested 

that the number and jurisdiction of different committees be reduced. 
Mazzoli also sui!Bested that representative's term of office be lengthened, saying the present term oftwo years makes It necessary for a representative to spend much of his term campaigning for his next elec­tion. 
Sensitive issues are dodged by campaigning politicians and the government Is less effective, he said. 
Mazzoli recently has served as chairman on the House judiciary Subcommltee on Immigration, Refugees, and International Law. 
The Rev. john J. Cavanaugh CSC Award honors a former student per­forming outstanding service In the field of government, patriotism, public service, and local, state or na­tional politics. 

1 1 1 
1 
The Observer Tuesday, October 29, 1985 -page 4 
lb. 
Ham 
FrUtts and Vegetables 
~r!".~ ~~~~ .......... 49e 
Fruit Cocktail, chooce quatoty. ..19e 
heavysyrup16oz .............. "t Sliced Peaches
choocequatoty.heavysyrup.29oz... 79"'~ :u..:r,~::.,y 16oz ............ 39e :,:,ancy_,soz ........... 39e !::!~.!. 1soz ............ 39e 
Cooktes & Snacks 
~c:~~-~~~~---········39e ~~~~-~~~---·-···99e 
Bread & Pastry 
=!~rorptaon 12e1.....79e arown aServe Hot 69e
Bread,t6oz ................ . 
~~~-~ -~e_R_on_s_ ..... 49e ~4~~~~-F_r_u•.•. ~~~e ........ SJ99 ~5h~0~~~~-s -~~~~~81\ ............SJ99 
Baktng Suppltes 


Jutce & Ortnks 
100% Pure Orange Juice 
unsweetened. 

99e 
grade A laney. 46 oz.. .......... . 

~~~::..~·-~ .............89e :!:~n~~~~r .................. _SJ99 
~=~~-~~~-~~~---·· _SJ49 
Prepared Foods 


Condtments & Spreads ~=~fancy. 32 oz ............69e r4a.:!cak~ -~~-r~~-.. ' '' ''' ' .. '.79e 
Stoek up at these new low priees! 
Vegetable Oil Q~ ~ Spread, _16 oz.•... ~ 
Premium 

291a 
Margarine, 1_6 oz. ..,. 
Pure VE!9etable S149 Shortenmg, 48 oz.• -. Pre-Creamed 
~2h:~~~.i~~: .. ;. 99e 
~!~~~·t· ~.i~~~... 99e 
~20:.~~~~ .~~.~~.'19e 

::~z~.~ .~~.~~·r· ...79e 
Peanut Butter 
creamy or chunky; 
89A 

grade A fancy, 18 oz. .... 
Premium Sliced ~~~~~~·. ~ ~ .~r.~~~: ....,29 Savory Bacon 59e 
#11b..•..(was .69) Ground Beef Patties, soy added. ~ 3 lbs .••••. (was 3.29) -~ -­
New Harvest••• 
New low priees! Just 

Datry & Lunchmeat .Cheese Slices, ornotatoon. 

89e 
ondivldually wrapped, 12 oz...... . 

~f1~·2~-~ ~~~ ....... 29e 
Sliced Boi~M or ~ Cooked Saliml,12oz.......77• 
"'Priee Redue~ ~~oz~as19c)69e
NEW LOW PRICE 

~~-·-........(was89c) 79e 
.... NEW LOW l'ft!CE ...1111 
Cereal 
~:.~~~ ....:........·: ..89e ~~=':!c..O:!...............SJZ9 
Paper & Household Items 
=ar~~ ......,.......39e 
~7~ct..~ !~~=~-.-............. 49e 
~-.~::ze , ................ SJZ9 
G.E. Ught Bulbs, Sl99 60..,.100wan.pkg ol-4 ............ -.-­


929 North Eddy, South Bend Store Hours 

(In Goodwill Plaza) 
"MONDAY·THURSDAY 10 A.M.·7 P.M. FRIDAY t A.M.-a P.M. SATURDAYI A.M.-I P.M. CLOSED SUNDAY 
....._.ceeh.................. NoOflec:Q...... 
Produce 

~~~~~:~'~.....69e ~r:e~S#1 ............•.. 25e ~~~~:AI bag................ 39e 
Frozen Foods 



The Observer Tuesday, October 29, 1985-page 5 
ANNOUNCING 

Apartheid meeting, library hours The liT MBA highlight College governance talks 
with a 

By KIMBERLY TRENNER Of the 44 percent of the: student LcMans residents arc: complainingMANAGEMENT INTERNSHIP SeniorStaffReporlBr body who responded, 69 percent about the: early morning construc­
YOU GET VALUABLE WORK EXPERIENCE WITH A MAJOR CHICAGO AREA CORPORATION WHILE YOU EARN YOUR MBA. 
A full-t1me. day MBA program in: 
• 
Operations Management 

• 
Information Resources Management 



From Illinois Institute of Technology, the University in the forefront of technological innovation and management. 
This MBA uniquely integrates advanced management theory and practice w1th an understanding of the impact of technology on the strategy, organization and operations of financial, service and manufacturing f~rms. 
Two semesters of internships during a six-semester, two year course of study. 
Program beg1ns June 1986. Inquire now. 
CALL OR WRITE: ­Director, MBA Programs ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY School of Business Administration 77 South Wacker Drive Chicago, Illinois 60606 




lliJ
312/567-5878 
"Awareness is very important," said Saint Mary's Student Body Presi­dent Anne Marie Kollman, referring to the the need for student aware­ness of the: injustice of apartheid, at last night's Board of Governance meeting. 
Kollman encouraged members of the board to attend tonight's panel discussion on apartheid at 7:30 in Flanner Hall. 
The panel will provide students with the opportunity to learn about apartheid and to ask questions, she said. 
In other business at last night's meeting, the results from the: recent library survey were discussed. 
said the current weekend library hours were unsatisfactory. Most stu­dents who responded said they would like the: library to open at 1 0 
a.m. or 11 a.m. on Sundays, rather than the current 1 p.m. opening. 
For the new hours to take: c:ffc:ct, 
however, they first must be: cleared 
by both the: library and the 
Academic Council, Kollman said. 
The United Way campaign also ·was discussed at the: meeting. 
"The United Way campaign took in a total of '368 in cash and II,800 in pledges," said Kollman. The pledges will be collected shortly, she said. 
Also brought up at the meeting was the Gripe Night held by the council before break, which Kol-
Word Processing101. 
There is agrim reality of college life that you may or may not be acquainted with. '!\ping. No. make tl1at hours oftyping. Precisely whv vou should consider aMacintoslr. 
· · With programs like MacWrite™ and Microsoft® Word. you can compose. edit. move paragraphs, and change ~pe sizes and styles with one finger.Which can come in very handy. (Especially if thats the 
way you type.) And iliats just one example of how Macintosh helps students work smarter. quicker and more creatively. 
The good news is, wiili Macintosh you don't have to know anyiliing about computers to use one. The better news is, you don't have to know anyiliing about white out. either. 

~· I'll!) ,\pple t:om111Jier.lnc..\pplc. tl-., .\pplc h~u and ~lac\\ me ;re rra<Fm:rrk> of Apple Cmll111Jier.lnc. ~I:ICullosh IS a rra<Fmark of :lldntosh bibor:UOI'I: Inc. :u1d is bemg LJ>e<l '-'irh iiS express penniSSIOtl \hcmsofi IS a reglsleretlrra<Fmark of :llicmsofi IA>fJKJr.Uion. 
For More Information •.• 
Contact: General Micro LaFortune Student Center 239-7477 

tion taking place:. "Although it is a pain for students, this work is impor­tant," said Kollman. 
The renovations are being done for safety purposes, she: said. 
lman said nao a Otg response. Stu­dent gripes included the need for a flower shop and an aerobics class on campus, demands for the yearbook, the new system of basketball ticket distribution, and the: high cost of ID replacements, she: said 
The S4 million dollar renovations on both Holy Cross and LcMans Hall also were discussed last night. 
Renovations currently are being done: on the bathrooms In LcMans Hall, Kollman said. "Each bathroom takes 13 weeks to finish," she: said. 
details were discussed. 
During the committee's discus­sion of the proposal It was ack· nowledged that the University would have to deal with county and state officials on this Issue:. 
The student alfairs committee also concurred that the vice: presi­dent of student alfairs no longer should sit ex officio on the: Campus Ufc: Council. "Because the: vice: president has veto power over any action taken, his expressed opinion at any meeting tends to stiftc: debate amongst other members of the council," student government's proposal stated. Tyson agreed with the recommendation, but said that he does retain the: right to par· ticipate in meetings In an informal capacity. 
·Divest 
continuedfrom page 1 
the University call upon those: cor­porations with holdinBS in South Africa in which Notre: Dame: invests to start the: process ofdivesting Ifthe: government there has not com­mitted itself to ending apartheid by Feb. 1, 1986. 
Walshc: said he wanted Notre: Dame to divest from particular cor­porations that did not begin this 
process. 
IfNotre Dame does not follow this recommendation, Walshc: said, "We: (the University) shall also be: con­tributing to the only alternative means ofchange· civil war, with our endowment resources at the: dis· posal ofthe oppressors." 
Carney said that If the: board thought civil war would result If Notre: Dame did not divest, the: Uni­versity would divest. He: called this idea, however, a "simplistic view." 
Both Carney and Hesburgh men­tioned other actions the University Is taking to help end apartheid in South Africa. 
"Notre: Dame is part of a pres­tigious U.S. university network col­laborating with South African universities in their struggles," Hes­burgh said. "We: arc: part of two con­sortia providing scholarships to South African blacks and colored. 
Notre Dame has granted scholar­ships to two black South African stu­dents for the University's graduate theological program this year. Hes­burgh said he hopes to add two more scholarships next year. 
Carney admitted that the board was between a rock and a hard place: in that the: policy is only a threat and ifIt enforces the policy then the: Uni· verslty will have: no more leverage. 
In determining the: University's )>olicy, the: board considered the: sentiment of the student body, he: said. "Certainly the: attitude: of the students lnfiuc:ncc:s the: board," Car­ney said. 
He explained, however, "I don't think If all three: students had been against the: policy it would have: ma'dc: a difference:." 


Trustees 
continuedfrom page 1 
ber of the academic and faculty af­fairs committee. 

In other matters, the full board gave its support to student govern­ment's proposal for an lndepth study ofthe feasibility ofplacing an under­pass or overpass on U.S. Route 31. The crossing would be in the area between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's where freshman Kevin Hur­ley was struck by a car in September. 
Father David Tyson, vice presi­dent ofstudent alfairs and a member ex-officio of the student alfairs com­mittee, said yesterday the board ap­proved the idea in principle, but no 
--------~­
Tuesday, October 29, 1985 -page 6 



®rtnbtr 30-:HQ!Qt 
•fllnnnliglft 11Rallnrss e"Walrs from t!Jr ilark.&wr" 
Shah"" Bookstore 1-10 pm SMC/ND Hall Skits 8:30 HCCParlour 

FREE

beaUbur ltablnnr 
Berenzy Game Room

8pm,12am 6pm,10pm Good food, music 8L much more. 
lelltJIIt <!Lnstwnr <!Lnntrst Don't miss ltll 
Atteraklta Sponsored by HCC Snack Bar 



HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL 
MBA PROGRAM 
The Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration seeks top graduates with a career interest in general management. 
An Admissions Officer will be on campus 
October 30, 1985 

to meet with students interested in the two-year MBA Program 
Contact the Career and Placement Service Center for more details and to sign up for an information session. 
Harvard Business School is committed to the principle of equal educational opponunity. 

The Observer 
Hostage famllies' confidence raised after 'fruitful' meeting with Reagan 
WASHINGTON · Relatives of some of the six U.S. hostages held in Lebanon said yesterday a half-hour meeting with President Reagan bolstered their confidence that ·steps are being taken to obtain their loved ones' release, but no breakthroughs appear likely soon. 
"It was a very fruitful meeting, and we hope that the administration will continue to pursue their initiatives, and we intend to continue to pursue private initiatives," said Peggy Say, sister of Terry Anderson, 38, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press. 
Say, whose brother was kid· 
napped on March 16, said the group 
was given information "that we can­not pass on." "There are initiatives being pursued," she said. 
Paul jacobsen, the son of David jacobsen, 54, who was abducted on May 28, said he found the meeting with Reagan "constructive." 
"We do feel that the president is committed to getting these men out, that is something that he does keep track of," Jacobsen said. He said the group presented a yellow ribbon to Reagan to place on a White House door as a remembrance. 
"We learned a lot, and I think they accept the feelings of the families and the frustrations and the sugges­tions," Say said. "(But) there ap­parently are not any breakthroughs." 
In recent weeks, one of the nine Americans kidnapped in Lebanon since early 1984 has been reported killed. This followed the release of another, who carried a message that the remaining hostages would die if the kidnappers' demands were not met. 
jacobsen said McFarlane reaf· firmed a commitment made several months ago "to speak directly with a representative of the group" that is believed responsible for the hostage-taking. 
"Ifthe captors are willing to come out and open up some direct lines of communication," progress could be made in gaining the hostages release, jacobsen said. 

Saint Mary's announces activities 
By KATHLEEN ZASSICK 
News Staff 
r 
r November will be a busy month for Saint Mary's students, thanks to the Student Programming Board. The Board has scheduled a variety of social and community awareness events for the month, including AI· cobol Awareness Week, which has been slated for the weekofNov. 4-9. Speakers, who have been scheduled for Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday of that week, will dis· cuss the results of a survey taken 

Votes 
continuedfrom page 1 
volved in the petition. 
"That's our main goal. Ifthey con­vince me that they can do it then I. would vote for them (if a new elec­tion is called for)," she said. 
"We're looking for student leaders that are able to voice the outrage that students feel. It may not get anything done but at least we need to be heard," said Vore. 
"That hasn't been done at all," 
added Yadlon. 
Healy would not comment on the 
recall petition. "I would rather not 
talk about it," he said. 
Healy would comment, however, 
on the student referendum calling 
for the disbandment of the Student 
Senate. 
He said students will vote next 
week on whether or not to disband 
the senate, saying a two-thirds about alcohol awareness, the ex· periences of a reformed alcoholic, and the Church's position on al· cobol, marriage, and birth control. 
In an effort to educate the campus on the apartheid issue, Nov. 19 has been set as a tentative date for Apar· theid Awareness Day. 
A proposed panel discussion would include members of the faculty and there would be an op· portunity for those attending to ask questions. 
An apartheid awareness bulletin 
board also will be assembled in 
majority of those who vote will be needed to pass the referendum. 
Two weeks ago Healy and four ot· her student leaders proposed to dis· band the senate in a letter that stated the senate had "long ceased to be a legitimate voice of the student body." 
"It's time we start doing our job and addressing student concerns," Lawrence, a co-signer the letter, said at the time. 
"The Student Senate is stopping us. It's apparent to everyone on campus," he added. 
Last week the Hall Presidents' Council passed an initiative to put the vote before the students. 
Healy said the senate would be be replaced by the Campus life Coun­cil if the referendum is passed. He has called a meeting ofthat body for next Wednesday. 
"We want to make sure the body starts out on the right foot," said Healy. 
******************* 
Aviation Careers 
U.S. GOVT. POSITIONS 
Prestige careers with medical, retirement benefits plus paid vacations. More than 2000 openings nationwide for Air Traffic Control Specialists -permanent U.S. Civil Service positions. Aviation exp. not necessary. If selected you will be trained at U.S. expense. Entry level applicants will start at $17,824 per year. Aptitude test required. 3 yrs. general work exp.. or 4 yrs. college, or work-education combined. 
Apply now. Write your name. address on postcard, mall today to: 
FAA, AAc3oi239 
P.O. Box 26650 

Oldahoma City, OK 73i26 Applications must be received before Nov. 30, 1985. Equal opp. employer. 
Immerse Yourself 
Spend a semester or a year in Latin America: 
• 
Become tluent in Spanish. 

• 
Participate in University courses, internships, or independent research. 

• 
Learn Latin American culture and history face-to-face. 

• 
Study in Peru ( Lima/Cuzco) or Colombia ( Bogota/Medellin ). 

• 
Receive full Academic credit from the University of Miami. 

• 
Use your existing Financial Aid. 


Applications and inf(>rmation from: North/South Academic Exchange Program 
Universitv of Miami PO. Box 2481.2.3 Coral Gables. Florida .3:'>1 24 

A GLOBAL UNIVERSITY (30S) 284-4.303 
Madeleva Hall 

The Board is attepting to get the movie "Six Days in South Africa" to show in coordination with the awareness week. 
The Board also has scheduled the musical "They're Playing Our Song" for Nov. 3 at O'Laughlin Theater at 8 
p.m. Tickets may be purchased at O'Laughlin for $5 each. 
On Nov. 12, Bob Husky, an acous· tic guitarist, will perform. Tickets will be available for purchase for the 8 p.m. performance at O'Laughlin. 
"There's all kinds of issues that need to be brought up. The role of the senate. The judicial process and the role of the review board. The Dillon Hall case and the role of the administration outside of Notre Dame. The penalties for parietals and Uttle Sibs week," Healy said. 
Lawrence said a complete discrip· tion ofhow the CLC will replace the senate will be released tonight. 

If you're selected for a Physician's Scholarship-from the Army. Navy, or Air Force-you're commissioned as an officer in the Reserves. 
While you're in school, you'll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and years of scholarship assistance received. 
. As an Armed Forces physician you'll receive officer's pay and benefits, and enJOY the advantages of working regular hours. You'll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology. 
But most important, while you're in medical school we'll help pay the bills. For more information, send in this coupon. There is no obligation. 
,

1Tell me how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program 
I 
r --------­YES. can help pay my medical school expenses. I understand there is no obligation. Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box 2865 Huntington Station. NY 11746-2102 9007 
I 

Check up to three: 0 ARMY 0 NAVY OAIRFORCE 
Pfease pnnt alllnformabon clearly and completely 
Name'-;=:,,::-.,----·--,M:-:""':::-:'•""''"•:-:c
1181,-----------:-cL,=-~----DMale OFemale
I I
Address, ________________Apt.#-;::::::;:::::;:::::;:::::::;::::::; 
City--;:=;=:::;=:;-;=:::;::::;:::;-;=:;:::;=;:=State•-----ZipI I I I I I
I Phone ITIJ ITIJ I I ISoc Sec No ITIJ rnI I I I I I 
Area Code Number 
Birth rn rn rn 
I

College•----------------Date 
Mo Day Year
I 
Graduat1on rn[I]

FieldofStudy•_________ _ ___Date The 1nforma110n you voluntanly provide Will be used for recrwtlng purposes only The more complete 1t IS t:better ::ar 
J

can respond to your request (Aulhorrty 10 USC 503) 



L --------­
-----------------~ 
Accent 
Tuesday, October 29, 1985 -page 7 
Beyond the Great Wall, ND finds China 
J 
CAROLINE GILLESPIE do anything to help a visitor, even If features writer they couldn't speak a word of ' English." ohn Fitzpatrick was walking along In addition to the learning oppor­the streets ofTianjln, China, with tunltles provided In the classroom, some other Notre Dame students. the students have the chance to They were lost. travel on weekends and further 
"We were walking In the. . . experience the culture. The two-wrong direction," said Fitzpatrick, a week tour at the end ofthe graduate student who participated program, led by Chinese faculty in last summer's Notre Dame from the institute, covers such foreign study program in Tianjin. cities as Tianjin, Nanjin, Suzhou and "Finally, we ran into a Chinese Shanghai. The students then depart person who, although he spoke no from the Orient after a short visit In English and we spoke no Chinese, Hong Kong. somehow managed to get us back "The tour takes the students to all on the right track. We would've the standard stops and allows the ended up in Peking at the rate we students to get a sense ofChinese were going." history," Fitzpatrick said. "There is a 
The eight-week Tianjin program, human element which shows the established in the summer of 1984, Chinese people as remarkably enables students to experience first resilient and adaptive. They are a hand Chinese language and culture. people who have suffered a great Open to all students of Notre Dame deal, even beyond communism and and Saint Mary's, including graduate yet they retain remarkable achieve-students and faculty, the Tianjin ments." program has had 22 students par­ticipate in the summers of 1984 and Isabel Charles, director of the 
198~. The program costs Jess than Foreign Study Program at Notre J:\000, which includes round-trip Dame, stressed the advantages of airfare, tuition, room and board, and the program. "I think it's very im­a final two-week tour. The students ponant to introduce our students live in dormitories and eat typical to the Chinese people, their lan­Chinese food In the student dining guage and their culture since such a hall. Professor Peter Moody has large ponlon of the world's popula­acted as director of the program tion Is centered in this area. Hope­and has accompanied the students fully this introduction will forge the past two summers. relationships contributing to an 
Tianjln Is a seapon city 60 miles understanding which will promote from Peking. Foreign trade is a big world peace. We also hope to en­business with various trade sections courage Notre Dame students to of the city designated for foreigners, consider helping and working In giving the city an International these areas In their future lives." flavor. The students have easy Provost Timothy O'Meara first access to the nation's capital, explored the possibility ofa formal Beijing, which is located just program with the Tlanjln Foreign northwest ofTianjin. Languages Institute. O'Meara and 
While at the Tlanjin Foreign his wife have visited China every languages Institute, the students summer since 1981. O'Meara study six credit hours ofChinese believes that contact with the which help to fulfill Notre Dame's Chinese people, especially at this language requirement. The study of time In history, Is vital. the language is encouraged before Junior Kevin Cullen participated departure but it is not required. in the program last summer. "I liked 
"The more Chinese a student a lot oflittle things in the ex­knows before going over there, the perience. I really liked the Chinese better,"Fitzpatrick said. "However, people. I liked the fact that when even though there is a great lan­you went shopping, you could buy guage barrier, there is such warmth things that were unique -not like and hospitality among the our mass-production items that you (Chinese) people that they would find inK-Mart." 

KntnCuUen 
Notre Dame students learn a local dance in Tianjin. 
BRUCE CHESLEY 
features writer 
W 
bile most of the campus was 
watching the Royals win the 

World Series, the Scott Cossu Quar­
tet performed in Washington Hall. 

Describing his group as "the 'Spinal 
Tap' ofheavy mellow," the perfor­

mance was the second in a series of 
jazz concerts by Windham Hill 
recording anists sponsored by the 
Around the Corner Club. 
The show began with Cossu 
alone at the plano for a medley of 

semi-improvisational solo composi­
tions. He was joined by his two 
percussionists, jim Brock and Billy 
Collie, and a violinist, Tora. Cossu 
was the primary musical force in 

the group, laying the harmonic and 
rhythmic framework for each piece. 
The concert featured Cossu 

playing an erotic courtship song on an instrument from northeastern Thailand, a bamboo pan pipe, as well as a solo by Brock on a 


Brazilian birumbau, which he likened to a "talking burrito." The 
rest ofthe show focused on Cossu's previously recorded material, cast in an entirely new light in the hands ofhis current sidemen, making the pieces interesting to people familiar with his albums. 
Cossu's pieces were not par­ticularly melodic, but he made an impression with his interesting arrangements and unhurried phras­Ing. Nearly every piece was based on a motifonto which layer upon layer ofrhythmic and harmonic complexity was added. This built the tension and feeling ofchaos without losing the original tone or structure. 
The real beauty ofCossu's playing was his phrasing ofhis harmonic Ideas. Each phrase 
swelled and unfolded naturally Into 
the next, giving the music a life of 
Its own. The percussionists' wide 
variety ofnatural sounds added to the rhythmic flow ofCossu's com­positions, but their effects sometimes overpowered the other musicians. The violinist played too mechanically to match the free lines delivered by the rest ofthe ensemble, falling to make a sig­nificant contribution. Despite these shoncomings, the concen provided a rare opponunity to be entenalned on campus by a musician as 
talented as Scott Cossu. 
The World Series is over, but the Windham HIU series at Notre Dame continues. The final performance In the series is scheduled for Novem­bef 23, and will feature solo pianist PhiJip Aaberg In Washington Hall. 


~i~~~_{)__i_Il__t________________
r_ue-sd-ay,_oc-to-be-r2-9,_19-85--pa-ge_s 
r Life is meant to be enjoyed for seven days a week 
I Monday morning, moan andgroan, r Another week's begun. Why did it have to come around Andspoil my weekendfun? Wednesday morning, haifa week 
Is almostgone and tbenf IfI can make it two more days I I'll come to life again.
r 
Friday morning, hip hooray,
r 
Another weekend's nearing. 
r 
Two days offandpayday, too. r It makes mefeel like cbeerlng.
r 
But watt a minute, something's wrong. 
r 
r It really Is annoying. r I've wisbed awayfive days oflife r I should have been enjoying. 
-Karen Wegand 

course, things always gomake the most of our days here -all of our
Carol Brown days, Monday through Sunday. smoothly, and we may feel as if we have to "live for the weekend." But that is what life is So, do not wake up tomorrow and think,
However, even worse than wishing away all about. We have to take the good with the "It's Tuesday...only 3 more days to get
our days "living for the weekends" is "living in these times for the weekends" and then, when they finally bad in order to experience it fully. We should through until the weekend." Rather, say to 
not wish tougher times away. We should deal yourself, "This is a day in my life. How do Ido arrive, obliterated becoming so obliterated It is sad, but true. A lot of us do wish five­
sevenths of our lives away. We "live for the r weekend," or more appropriately, we DO r NOT live; we waste a good part of our lives r looking to the future, or even rekindling the' 
r 
r 
Healy-Lawrence recall gaining great support 
Dear Editor: 
Bill Healy is a joke and we are not laughing. 
Time and time again Bill Healy and Duane 
Lawrence have proven their dedication to the 
Administration. When the administration says 
"jump," Healy and Lawrence buy pogo-sticks­
with our money. 
The administration does not have to attack 
the students; Healy handles that for them. 
Whether it be Healy's personal Observer scam 
or his firing of students allegedly 
"disrespectful" to the administration, Healy 
and Lawrence have repeatedly demonstrated 
where their loyalty lies. To them, respect for 
the administration is synonomous with 
unquestioned obedience. 
How can we expect the Student Senate to 
accomplish anything with Healy and 
Lawrence at the helm? It is also sad to see the 
collusion of Kevin Howard, Lee Broussard, 
and Karen Ingwersen on the filthy grab for 
power. It is no secret that the chairman ofthe 
Hall Presidents' Council has the most to gain 
by making the Student Senate a scapegoat for 
the Healy-Lawrence administration's inep­
titude. Howard and Lawrence, let us all 
remember, were the main instigators behind 
the debacle in student government last spring. 
Howard, Broussard, and Ingwersen have no 
constituency and serve no purpose as mem­
bers in the Senate. Yet these so-called student 
"leaders" abolish themselves and resign from 
the Student Senate so that somereal work can 
be done. 
Please do not put the Observer down now. Make sure that you read Healy's HOO "political crutch" ad of Oct.18. After all, you paid for it. $300 of the students' money was spent on this joke. 
It is no secret that there has been increas­
ingly overwhelming support for the impeach­
ment/recall and/or resignation of Healy and 
Doonesbury 
IVHAT's THE MA"TTlfR, EJA13Yr AMI TAl-KIN' 7lXJ WIJP FOR YtXJf 
'\ 
past. How many times do we find ourselves It is time to realize that life is great -right plaining about it and the other half miserably saying something to the effect of, "IfI can only now! Every moment wasted is a moment lost plodding through it. Just tackle the mountain make it to this weekend..."? It seems as if we forever -REALLY! Life is an expendable com-ofwork straight on and do your best. Do not think our happiness depends on some distant approach it from a negative perspective. In· 
modity -the MOST expendable commodity!
future event. Yet, we know from experience stead, think of it as a challenge. Think ho "' 
Every moment is a "once in a lifetime oppor­
that often that event that we have "lived for" tunity."
all week falls through anyway. So, we must ask Life is short. Anyone who has ever taken a lucky you are to have the opportunity andourselves, what have we wished those last five 
days away for? history course knows that on a historical time ability to learn, to deal with that challenge. line one man's life would look about the size Attitude means everything. Ifwe view life's
Time is especially important for those ofus of a speck of dust. Particularly in our times of difficulties with a negative outlook, the result
here at school now. We only have about four nuclear technology, we cannot predict how will be self-defeating and depressing ­
years to be a part of college life. And it is a much time we have. This is not to say we definitely not the way we want to spend ourgreat time in life, a unique time. Not everyone should spend our lives dwelling on the moments. Yet, if we can handle those samehas the opportunity to spendfour years in pur­thought that we could all be gone tomorrow, difficulties within an optimistic framework,suit of higher learning and higher goals. We for this would only be another useless waste we can truly live our lives to the fullest. Ifwe
are very lucky to have this time to try to dis­ofour time. But realize that although our time can learn to appreciate all of life's moments,
cover what we want for our lives. But four seems limitless, it is not. We have to make the we will be that much happier for all those mo­
years is not a millenium. It goes by very most ofour lives everyday. · ments.
quickly. This gives us all the more reason to Of do not 
with them, make the best of them, and hope­want to spend it?"
that we forget them anyway. What is the 
fully we will learn from them and emerge
point? Why do some seem to feel that the only 
stronger as a result. Carol Brown is a sophomore in tbe College 
way they can "get through life" is by wasting 
So, if you are looking at a rough work load of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame and a
it, forgetting it, or simply fantasizing about 
this week, do not spend halfofyour time com-regular Viewpoint columnist.
how great itwill be in some far off time? 
P.O. Box Q 
·Lawrence. In short, "there's a bad moon violated; the couple openly admitted their tial for change is there. With a unified effort, a'risin' for Healy and Lawrence." guilt. The question is whether or notall parie­we can reach that potential. tals violations should be handled in the same 
Sbeila B. O'Connorjohn Hallissy Walsh Hall president

manner, regardless of the circumstances or
jay Yap 

the intent ofthe people involved. In this case, 
Hasan Dossal 

john Ginty the couple was found asleep in the living Students must not work room of a suite in a women's dorm, with the
Fisher Hall 
against ND government 

door open and the lights on. Should these 
people be dismissed from the University just 
Healy showed care in 
as would a couple whose sole intention is to Dear Editor: have sexual relations behind closed doors Rationality has never been a key facto~ in
visiting Hurley's room 
after parietals? That is ridiculous! politics, but at Notre Dame rationality must be Dear Editor: the factor students rely on to make decisions. 
It is time that people stop the name calling Unfortunately, the administration does not Currently the popular issue on campus is the 
and look at what Bill Healy has ~eally done for presently recognize this distinction. After As­recall ofStudent Body President Bill Healy. Its 
the student body. sociate Vice President for Residence Life John vocal proponents argue for "A Real Begin­
When Kevin Hurley was in the hospital here Goldrick and Director of Residence Life Ann ning," but if Healy is ousted, what will con­
in South Bend, Healy made it apoint to visit Firth handed down the original decision to tinue is choatic, self-seeking politics. The 
Hurley almost every day. He gave his support dismiss the students, the judicial review board student's have already had quite enough of 
to the family and friends ofHurley and he tried overturned the decision, choosing com­that. to help in any way he could. No one bothers to munityservice as a reasonable punishment for This student body does not need another look and see that Healy truly cares and shows the violation. The review board's decision, election to take time away from working on it everyday. To any of those students calling however, was appealed once more, leaving issues that need our sincerest effort, issues names that can say they care as much about the final decision to Father Hesburgh. The ad­that the student's care about. Yet to satisfy the the student body as Healy, I challenge them to ministration had one more opportunity to egos of Notre Dame's pseudo-politicians, we go and talk to him face to face. Sure, go ahead recognize that the violation was not might have to put off workese issues and and write letters of complaint, but also have premeditated; the intent was not to blatantly further hurt the student body's image. If we the guts to go up and visit Healy and talk to abuse university regulations. Nevertheless, act like irrational children, following ong the him about all that he is trying to accomplish. Hesburgh decided that the students should be newest political fad, we have justified the ad­
TaraSbea suspended. ministration's view of us. Rather, ifwe let our 
Notre Dame Student The parietals rules themselves are not in voices be heard within the framework of stu­
question here, but discretion on the part of dent government, we will show ourselves to
Letters from everyone 
the administration in dealing with parietals be mature and informed adults deserving of violations is a necessity. We need to workfor a respect.
needed to make change 
change. We need to demonstrate our dissatis­Yes, the structure and its leaders are far faction to the administration. Because the stu­from perfect, but to improve our government
Dear Editor: 

dent voice is not always heard as much as we requires work from within the set of "Principle is important but what about the 
would like it to be, we need the support of structures. To obtain what we desire from stu­people?" These words surrounded an ad­
dent government, we must work for it in an vertisement in the Friday, Oct. 18th, issue of atmosphere of stability. It is easy for IS per­parents and alumni. 
Recently, there has been a lot of criticism 
the Observer, which asked members of the about the lack of action in student govern­cent of the students to ask for the recall ofthe 
Notre Dame community to write letters to president. However, if that same number
ment. Student government is acting on this 
demonstrate their discontent with the ad­issue; but without the support of the entire would let the student body president know ministration's handling of a recent parietals 
loudly and clearly what they want, and then case. 
Notre Dame community, it is very difficult to 
make a change. Please take five minutes to work with him for it, the desires of the stu­In brief, the case at issue involves two stu­dents would be met much more effectively
write a letter addressed to Father Tyson, C/0
dents who were recently suspended from than by blindly following an irrational fad. 
OBUD, and drop it in a campus mailbox. Ask 
Notre Dame for a Barietals violation. There is 
Eric Wold 

your parents to write letters also. The poten­
no question as to whether or not the rule was 
Howard Hall 

Garry Trudeau 
M/ZT/ItlllliY, LAMEJPIE! MeeT [3CCIJJ.J58 WR 
aJHYSHOOlPIf 

HOUJ'M
ME! A fJUJO<.OII{)( tu!TH A 
Quote of the day

I [)()!N6?
I?AWY'S RICH 

MAJOR MOf!lH ONfER! YW6fJT 
\
ANI?tuH/Tl3 ANI? 
fTUPW!TH 
'IW~Y50.'2 
"There are no il­
/ 
legitimate children -only illegitimate parents." 
Leon R. Yankwicb 

U.S. District Courtjudge Decision, Zipkin v. Mozon 
(1928) 



·"ielYP.~O_i_n_t____________________________________________T_u_e_sd_a~y~,o_c_t_o_be_r_2~9~,~19_8~5--~p~ag~e~9 
l I 
P.O.BoxQ 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
The _Qbset:Ver--= 
Students insulted by Hesburgh's statement 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to comment on a statement made by University President Father Theodore llesburgh at the anti-apartheid rally. Hesburgh remarked that students must think carefully about the consequences of divestment. I felt this remark was an insult to those who drew up a petition which seeks University divestment from South African related stock, to those who signed it and to professors who spend many hours teaching students to think critically. Those who drew up the petition spent a lot of time analyzing the issues and gathering facts prior to con· eluding that divestment, under the conditions stated in the petition, is a good answer-not just an "easy answer" as Hesburgh stated. Fur· ther, much energy and effort has been spent on educating students about the facts and issues. The students have thought the issue through very carefully and are aware of what they signed. 
"lbe divestment option, as outlined in the petition, does not support total divestment from all firms in South Africa. Rather, it outlines specific steps toward the: elimination of apartheid which firms must take by Feb. 1, 1986 or the University will begin divestment from these firms. This allows the University to maintain activity in those firms which are moving toward elimination ofapartheid. Con· tinuing to hold Investments in those firms which do not take action as outlined in the petition is a failure to exercise one's option of divestment as an investor. If one is not able to exercise power as an investor (i.e. convince firms to take the actions outlined in the peti· tion ), what is the point of maintaining the in· vestment? Further, to continue to hold investments in those firms is to participate in an economic institution that actively adv· ocates apartheid. The purpose ofan economic institution is to serve the individual by allow­Ing for freedom, justice and self· determination. Continued participation in economic institutions which do not promote these ends is immoral and unethical. 
Mary A. Engelmeyer Notre Dame graduate student 
Students should know when good things occur /Jt•ar Editor: 
We would like to pose the question,"What is the function of The Observer?" Is it not 
supposed  to  bring information  to  the  stu·  
dents?  
We  attended  the  Alex  

DeGrassi/Anger,Higbie and Marshall Trio concert at Stepan Center on Sunday evening. Stepan had been converted into a coffee house with round tables covered in red and white: checked tablecloths, plants screens and a lot of food such as croissants and pastries. This was an excellent achievement and we ap­plaud lbe Around the Corner Club. All 350 or so In attendance enjoyed an excellent perfor­mance with a surprisingly comfortable atmo­sphere in Stepan Center. But no one else found out about it because of the failure of The Observer to cover the event. There was no mention of It in Monday's paper, or Tues­day's for that matter, while Alabama and Charlie Daniels were featured. It seems at least one staff reporter could be afforded to attend and report on the concert. A lot oftime and money goes into the organizing of these events for the students, and •he students should know about a good thing when it hap· pens 
From what we have seen and heard, this situation seems to be a habit where The Ob· server is concerned. There will be future events ofthis kind at Stepan; see what you can do. 
Rick Totab jobnRubtno Notre Dame seniors 
T-shirts against Faust harm more than help 
DearEditor: 
This letter is in regard to the ingenious shirts which have appeared on campus lately. lbese shirts, which poke .fun at Head Coach Gerry Faust, are very creative and sometimes even amusing. But one would think that stu· dents with such creativity could channel their thoughts and opinions in a more positive way. The individuals making and selling these T· shirts are among the select few that are allowed to attend Notre Dame. When they elected to go here they agreed to support and be a part of the University, good or bad. The students that came to Notre Dame within the last five years recognized and understood the "Faust" situation. Although it is good that the people making these T-shirts care about the welfare: ofour University, and want to make a statement, it seems to me that they are hurting the University more than L'ley arc: helping it. 
Wynn Young 
AlumniHall 
Healy's submissiveness not acceptable to all 
Dear Editor: 
So very few times do the students of Notre: Dame have the courage and resolve to ques­tion authority and the commitment to in­stitute a change that it is a sad and bitter blow to this University's integrity when two such voices of protest are silenced because they chose to ignore the empty rhetoric of most student leaders and fight injustice through positive action. The decision to dismiss John Dettling and Pat Baccanari from the Commit­tee for Responsible University Business Practices sends a clear message to the: Notre Dame student body: question authority, but not the University's authority. 
Perhaps Student Body President Bill Healy felt pressure from above, or perhaps he was motivated by personal ambition, but the reasons he offers for the dismissals cannot fool even the most submissive and blindly loyal domer. I am outraged and disappointed, then, to find the students of Notre Dame: so accept· ing of Healy's action. I suppose with the ex­perience ofage comes the realization that one does not try to question or change authority. No, ifone: wishes to survive, one must accept its actions like a docile and ignorant animal. Perhaps this is a lesson that the blacks ofSouth Africa also find difficult to accept. 
Mark Toner Notre Dame student 
Wolf holds distorted view on 'bandwagons' 
DearEditor: 
I am concerned about the backward order 
of importance many students at Notre Dame 
place on current issues. 
Typical ofthis was an article written by Phil 
Wolf in the Oct. 16 issue ofThe Observer on 
the fickleness of Notre Dame football sup­
porters. 
Although Wolf reasonably tried to urge 
people to continue supporting the football 
team, a passage in the article sadly revealed a 
distorted perspective of what is and what is 
not important in his eyes. 
In the article, Wolf adopted the role of a 
"bandwagon" driver, driving groups charac­
terized by a crowd mentality fueled by emo­
tions rather than reason. As an example, he 
unfortunately wrote, "I have some buddies 
who've been driving the anti-apartheid 
bandwagon and they sure are busy." 
This statement, perhaps written rashly, 
reflects a sheltered awareness of the world. 
Wolfs outlook places support of the football 
team as a moral priority above any thinking on 
the apartheid issue. 

Surely feelings on any political issue, in­
cluding apartheid, should be encouraged. 
Most countries in the world look at univer­
sities as sources of fresh thought on current 
issues. Students have more time to develop 
their ideas about these issues than they will at 
any other time in their lives. 
Sad to say, Wolfs priorities, common here at Notre Dame, contribute nothing to that development. 
The more the students become obsessed with and stew over football issues, the less they help in giving Notre Dame a voice. This ultimately hurts the school and the individual more than any lack offootball fanaticism. 
I would hope the administration can do more in the future for the development ofstu­dents' awareness and ideals. 
BtllClarke Notre Dame graduate student 
Hesburgh, Healy dodge main apartheid issues 
DearEditor: 

It was great to see so many people at the 
rally against apartheid · although the crowd 
seemed to thin significantly after Father 
Theodore Hesburgh spoke. For those who left 
then I'm sorry you had to stand in the cold for 
so long. Hesburgh managed to meander 
around the issue for about 45 minutes lacing 
his "memoirs" with names of the people he 
hangs around with and what he said or did 30 
years ago. 

Hesburgh stated that the easiest way out would be to divest now but that it would not be a very intelligent move right now. To me that was just the easiest way of getting away from discussing the whole issue. Just making blatant statements without offering any al­ternatives shouldn't satisfy anybody.I wonder ifthere was as much debate when Notre Dame decided to invest in these companies operat­ing in South Africa · I doubt the moral ques­tion evercame up. There are no easy solutions to the problem except to leave the investment there and continue to bolster the apartheid regime. Did anyone ever talk of investing in 
the economy of Nazi Germany in order to help the Jews? Hesburgh also mentioned the standard 
argument against divestment, "Well if it's not us then it will just be someone else who doesn't care." Can a man justify raping a woman by saying that if he didn't do it someone else would? Morally, this University should not aid in South Africa's repression whate'ver other countries are willing to do. He mentioned Japan as one of those:-countries­actually Japan does have policies prohibiting new investments in South Africa. 
Finally, I would like to address Bill Healy, the student body president/trustee puppet who fired the two student government mem­bers who have been active in the South African issue. According to him, they were fired for being impolite (in his mind) to Board ofTrustees Chairman Thomas Carney. To put the whole issue into a broader and yet relevant context, does he think that the South African police are polite when they ask a black man for his pass book or break down his door to search his room? They seem to get quite a bit done by being impolite. Healy,this is no 
longer a "please sir," "thank you sir" issue. 
Ttmotby Thomas Notre Dame graduate student 

Harassment of students extended far from ND 
DearEditor: 
In the last week, I have been following the various articles that have been published on the "Dillon" tailgater at Ann Arbor. Personally, I find the University's attitude on this event and similar events as very unjust and very out ofdate. It Is not like those young men were: in prison, let out on parole, violated parole and so must be punished. They are free, or is this Russia? 
I am from Ireland and I have never heard the Irish government complain to the Notre: Dame administration about their use of the slogan "the Fighting Irish" or the symbol of the leprechaun. For in similar fashion, the Irish people would find this insulting and very unrepresentative ofour country. 
What is the problem with the Office ofStu­dent Affairs? Why do they persist In harassing the students; constantly keeping them in check? Does this mean when I go back to Ireland for Christmas that I must not go to a pub and sing songs with my friends, in fear that the out of date, unjust Office of Student Affairs might not approve? Who knows, maybe it wishes to extend this rather large campus east to Dublin, Ireland, someday. 
Sean Evers Grace Hall 



P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarali E. Hamilton Busmess Manager. . ........ Dav1d Stephenllch 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller . .......................... William J. H1ghducheck 
News Editor ............................................. Frank Lipo Advertising Manager .... J1m Hagan
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1versity of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager .. ...................... Mark B. Johnson 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager.. John A. Mennell 
mstrallon of e1ther mstitut1on. The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as pas­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
Unsigned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy ieners and the InSide Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ........ : ........................... Joa Murphy to all members of the commun1ty and the free expresston of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches . through leners. is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer 
Tuesday, October 29, 1985-page 10 
Sports Briefs 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
tooJ&bt at 6:30 at the boathouse. All members should attend. -The 
Observer 

Synchronized swimmers with some ex­
perience are to meet today at 4 p.m. in Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. For more Information call Coach Dennis Stark at 239-7042. -The Observer 
A fun runwill be held with the theme "tun outside before it snows" at 4 p.m. today at the East Gate. Registration will take place in the dining halls and at the race site. All are welcome to participate by paying a 12 entry fcc. -The Observer 
NVA aerobics will begin the second fall session today in gym IV above Gate 3 at the ACC. Classes arc open to men and women, students or staff. Classes begin at 4 p.m. and at 5:15 p.m. on Mondays and Wednesdays, and at 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will be 
meeting tomOtTOw at 6:30p.m. in the basement of Breen-Phillips. Information concerning the indoor soccer season will be discussed, and anyone interested may attend. Anyone unable to attend the meeting should call Karen at 283-1362 or Kerry at 283-4673. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC ski team will be mcctingtomOtTOw at 6:30p.m. in the LaFortune little Theater. Fund-raising materials will be distributed and I 100 trip deposits will be collected. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Track Club will hold an 
informational meeting tomotTOw at 7 p.m. in the basement ofWalsh for those interested in track and/or field events. For more Informa­tion call Mary Beth at 277-1983 orJulia at 283-2720.-The Observer 
The ND WeightandFitness Club will hold a 
general meeting tomOtTOw at 7:30p.m. at the New Orleans Room in LaFortune. Anyone interested may attend. -The Observer 
The SMC trackand field teamwill be meeting tomOtTOw at 8:30p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. All Saint Mary's students who arc interested in the varsity track and field team should attend. -Tbe Observer 
A pumpkin carving contestsponsored by NVA will be held tomOtTOw at 7 p.m. in the South Dining Hall. There is a Sl entry fee for both individual and two-person teams. To reserve a pumpkin call the NVA office by 5 p.m. tomorrow.-Tbe Observer 
SMC intramuraltennis tournament entries will be accepted at the Angela Athletic Facility until Friday. Both singles and doubles matches will be played. -Tbe Observer 
SMC aerobic classes will be held beginning Novem­ber 4 and running through to the end of the semester. Classes will meet from 10-10:55 p.m. Monday and Wednesday, and from 5-6 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday. The entry fcc of 15 will be accepted at the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 11 
Ditka not surprised with Bears 

LAKE FOREST, Ill. -Coach Mike Ditka isn't surprised that his Chicago Bears arc 8-0 and the only un­defeated team In the National Foot­ball League. 
"If you speculated before the season that we'd be 8-0, yes, itwould seem tough and I'd be surprised," Dltka said yesterday. "But now, no. We've earned every one of our vic­tories. We haven't backed into any games." 
Asked if his Bears could go un­defeated and wind up 19-0 with a Super Bowl triumph, Ditka smiled and said, "Stranger things have hap­pened." 
As far as Ditka is concerned, the Bears have not reached the peak of their potential. 
"We can execute on offense bet­ter," Ditka said. "We told the players early that if they'd cooperate, we'd be in good shape. We told them every game would be a dogfight. 
"The main thing is we wanted to control our Central Division. 
1. x-Farley 
1.000 
2. 
x·Puquerilla Eaal .714 

3. 
x-Puquerilla Weet .714 4. x-Lyona .571 5. Breen-PhiMipl .571 6. Lewio .286 7. Wallh .143 8. Badin .000 


x-diched playoff apot 

l'h•• Oh.<<'rl'<'r '\otrt· l>dmt· •>lfin·. lm JtnJ on tht· thlftl tloor of I.JI orrunt· O,tutlt·nt ( t·ntt'f. Jttt·pt' t"ld'"fktl J<h't•ru"n~ from 9 J m unul 1 p m \lontlJ\ throu~h 1-rttlJ\ The Oh.<I'T'l'I'T O,Jtnt \IJn ·, offiu·. lot Jtt·tl on tht· thtrtl nnor Ill ltJ~).:Jr ( .ollt·~t· ( t·ntt•r. J< n·ph <la"itinl' lrom 12 .~11 p m unttl ~ p m \fon­da\· thou~h httla\ I>t·Jtllim· lor nn;t-OJ\ t!J"tfktl' " ~ p m .-\11 tiJ"ttit·tl, mu't tw pn·pattl. l'ltht·r tn pt·r-on or h• mJtl ( h.tr~t·" llltl'nt' pt·r fht·t hJrat
Classifieds 
tt'" t·r tla•· 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAII.A8LE 287-4082 

TYP1NQ CALL CHNS 2J4.1187 
WORDPttOCDeiNQ 
277-4041 
FME PICKUP & DEUVEJIY 

TYPING tann papan, ,_,_..._, 
applcllll-. " 11 a ...., -;
plclwp & dlllvery on _,_ av..-... c.l CMhy lcttullz ...._ .._10 p.111. 277-11M. 
WILL 00 TYPING-EXPERIENCED TYPIST-15 YEARS. CALL 287-5162. 
WINTER BREAK tlkiing at Steerrmo.t Springo and Vail !rom 575, "' ounning at South Padre llland and Daytona Beach !rom $991 Huny, cal Suncltua IOf more information tal !rea 1-800.321·5811 Of contact a Sunch-Repr-tive Of your roc.l Travel Agency TODAY! When your winter break counts ... count on Sunclt-! 
LOST/FOUND I 

LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CON­TACT ALICE 287-7657. 
FOUND: llrllcalet outaide ol Denny'l on Friday night. Cal Kllllty a1 2e00 toidentify. 
................................................................. 
LOST (Of preeumed lellef1): 1 SKATEBOARD. Yeah you read 11 right, my yalow, G&S lkateboard oomahow ~ed from my ~on while I -~no .,lha 11t1rary on the nlghl or 10/14/85. If you have it "' know o1 i1a wttara.bouta, ~ (and 1 do mean ~)cal JIM 1111736 Of 11op by 707 GRACE HALL. REWARD BEING OF· 
FEREDI 
loltl I know aofMbody lound my jean _..el2-agolnroom 11401hag.. lf you found it I'd really Uke it back 10 pleaoa Cal1784. 
LOST: P-·lhaped aapphlre ring, white gold, and 8 diamondl. II you hava lound my ring PLEASE cal2922. 
FooNo;·SMAi:l"iii:Aci<·;;·uR&E"Wi:rH 
NO 1.0. BUT LOTSA OOI.LAA8. FOUND ONOCT.18ATPARTYATCORNEROF NAVARRE AND ST. LOUIS. CALL TEO AT 2383 TO IDENTIFY.
. 

Found: Woman'a -a. ~relay nita on lidawllk ~PE I ar.cebafOfa tur­noff toPE. caiK..y x4!508 to iclenllfy. 
LOST: gold h_,·lhapedpinky ring with a tiny ruby in the canter. Graallefltirnental value. lllound, pleaaa cal Nancyat4294. 
TO WHO EVER TOOK MY BACKPACK­I do nolc.a how you happened to g.t i1, but at leMt have the decency to ratum my NOTES. My t.ckpaclt -dlrtc l:tlJe and 
diupp.-ed during lunch 10/UI at lOUth dining hal. 11 contained al ol my noiMIOf Hillory, PhY8ica. Emil, and Englilh.ltallo contained a Radio Shack calculator and a 1-booka. My name and number •e on everything in my t.ckpaclt, 10 nlhould not be dlfficuH to lind ma. I would really appriOCiate it if I could have my NOTES back. II you have them~ cal MIKE at 2360. No quelliona alked. 
FOR RENT 

RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR CITY /COLLEGATE RENTALS INC.,2597661 
SEEKING FEMALE ROOMMATE. NOTRE DAME APTS.INEXPENSIVE.CALL ALICE 232­6069 OR 287-7657. 
1 Of 2 ROOMMATES needed IOf TurUe Cr-Townhouoa. Great townhouoa, very r-.able. Call277-2364 
WANTED 
.

................................................................ 
RIDES OFFERED to Cleveland/Akron
•ea.leaving Oct.20. Cal Mlke al1606 
WANTED: student int•aatad in manact ing N.D. Women'o V~ TNITI. Training lobegin immedialely ,luireepon­tlibilitiM to begin 1886-.. Applica­tiona may be filed ou11n Voleybal Olflce, ACC. Quelliona? 231H1307 batwMn 2:30 and 6:30. 
Travll Field Opportunity. ca.ln valuaMa _....,. ...,.n-whlla 
....... __,., c..pua ••-MIIveMedeiiiiRF lf'lllfrf• apr!......... trip to FlarldtL Ctlll .... Nllaon 1111-100-212-1221. 
.._.,.."-Northv........._ 
to NO. WI._ ...,..._ c.l Joe 2774481M pm. 
.•••••••.•••.••••....••••......•••.....•..•....!..•..•...••..••. 
FOR SALE 
11 It True You Can Buy JMpe fOf $44 through the U.S. gcwernment? Gal the f-1oday! Cal 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 7318 
INFLATABLE HALLOWEEN PUMPKINS OREAT DECORATION/GIFT DON 1463 
TICKETS 
NAVY QENEJlAL ADIISIION Two Mtpning tickats Cal 233-8803 
NEED PENN ITATE TIXIII WiM pay big buckl FOf 2 Penn State GA'o llyou'veeotPanni!Mellx, 
_,&..rylll2082 
I NEED NAVY & IIIII GA8.272-GOS 
NEED ONE STUDENT TIX OR G.A. FOR NAVY WILL PAY $$$. CALL JOHN AT 3258 
Needed Navy ticketa (12) Call 312·536­5537 Days Or 312-641H>186 Eveningo Colect 
Deaperately need 1 Navy G.A. Of lludent ticket. Cal Jeanne 2862 
FOR SALE-2 ARMY, USC, NAVY, MISS. &LSU TIX! CAll233-2163 OR 234-51?8 
2 50YD Navy GA'1 bell offer by 11 :OOPM 10130 DAVE 1712 
SELL ME 4 NAVY GA'S (1254) 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'o. CALL DAVE, 272­3832. 
I NEED NAVY ITUDI!NT TIX OR GAll . CALl CHUCK AT 111114. 
NEEOE0-2-4 GA'S FOR LSU GAME. WILL PAY PREMIUM. CALL4434. 
NEE02NAVYGAS.1027. 
NAVY: Naed 3 tickets, 11udenta Of GA'I, wiN pay BIG$$$. Chu 1023. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING...Navy GA'a Of student tickets. PIMH cal Ch• at 2773. 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR NAVY OR LSU GAME. CALL 312-951-4167 OR 312­928-9411 AND ASK FOR JOHN. 
································································ 
HELPII need 2 Navy GAa and 2 Navy IIU­denl tiX fOf IUrpriH lamily Viii!. Wil pay cull and/Of beer. Cal Jeff 24611. 
................................................................. 
GAAHDIIA DI!PAULO WIU. lEND UNCLE VITO TO DI&OCATE IIY KNUCAP IF I DON'T GET 1 NAVY 11CKET. IOIIEONE HELP liE. CALL ....1221. 
Wilh to trade: 2 LSU tix (oac 33, row 8) fOf tix (any -)1o any other home game afler Oct. 20. 517-687-3347, before 6"' 517-627-8088 all•7. 
................................................................ 
HAVE LSU TIX TO TRADE FOR MISS TIX (502) 444-8263 

NEED Six Navy GA'I. PI-call M. Clark3347 
IGOT NAVY, MISS., AND LSU TIX. CALL ERIC 1527. BEST OFFER. 
NAVY GAll FOR IALE.232-1411 
Need 3 student Miu. tix Cal Miuy 284­5424 
LITll.E BRO COMING TO VISIT NEED 1 NAVY STUDENT OR GA CALL 284·5455 
I AM DESPERATE FOR NAVY TICKETS! PLEASE CALL JULIE 264-4317 
Wi~ trade Navy GAs IOf 2 Penn St GAa Call 284-5167 
PERSONALS 
-how fortunate .,. you and i, whOle home is timeleaaneu: we who have wan­dfJI'ed down from lniQrant mountains of etemalnow 
to frolic in such mysteries • birth and dealh a day(or maybe evan leu) 
................................,............................... 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? 
Cal 234-o363. 24-hr. hotline, cou..ering 
& frea pregnancy Ieaia. 
WOIIEN'I CA!tE CENTER 
HAVE 4 ARMY AND 2 NAVY GA'S.NEED 2 MISS 11udent tix and/Of 2 GA'o. Wil owap,lell Of buy. Help 10111e BOS­TONIANS-an NO game.Cd CLAIRE afler 12 midnl x3823. 
POIII-Grllduate Service 
COUNIELJNQ AISOCIATE 
PIK)QRAII 
Women'a ear. Center 
IF YOU ME CONCERNeD UOUT 
WOllEN WHO ME EXPEJIIENCINQ A 
PROalll PMQNANCY, THE 
WOIIEN'I CAllE CENTER H.U A 
PIIOGIIAII THAT MAY IH OF INTER­
EST TO YOU. WE Alii OPPOIHD TO 
MOIIllON AND WANT TO HB.P THE 
WOllAM FACING A PfiOaEII PMG­
NANCY WITH UFE-UVINQ AL· TUINA11Vd •vOFFEJIINQ HIR THE LOVE AND IUPPORT '"IMAY NEED TO CAIWIY HPCHILD TO TBIII..AND WE NEED YOUR HELP! 3THE COUN­SELING ASSOCIATE PROGRAM IS OF· FERED TO GRADUATES INTERESTED IN COUNSELING OR SOCIAL WORK, AND ABLE TO WORK AT THE WOMEN'S CARE CENTER ON A FULL­TIME, VOLUNTEER BASIS. FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL THE CENTER AT 
234-0363. 
HAPPY TWENTIETH TO DAVE JONESt STOP BY 320ZAHM OR CALL 1118 TO WISH HIM A HAPPY BIRTHDAY. 
WINTER BREAK lkiing at Steamboat Springa and Vaillrom $75, "' ounning at South Padre llland and Daytona Beach lrom $99! Huny. cal Sunch-TouraiOf more iniDfmation tollrea 1~1-5911 "'contact a Sunch-Repr-tative "' 
your local Travel Agency TODAY! When your winter break counts...count on Sunchua! 
J.R. You are delinitely in my oyotem. in 
fliCI, roees ••red, violets are blue, I hate homework, but am in..... How lhould I end lhat?!? 
Thanks St. Jude 
F.O.B.I.S. FEST IS COMING!!! F.O.B.I.S . FEST IS COMING!!! F.O.B.I.S. FEST IS COMING!!! F.O.B.I.S. FEST IS COM­ING!!! 
FASHION VICTIIII FASHION VICTIIII FASHION VICTIIII NOV. 15, 1985 

CONQIIATULATIONI CONGIIATULA110NI CONGIIATULATIONI CA!tYN HAIIVEY .ad JOE IUCH On your exciting wedding plaM. Belt wilhee and good luck! We'U miu you both. LDve, Fran "Pieaae don'l lake lhe matching bedap,..da! Cindy "Toa lhe bouquet my -...y!" and Alicia "OK, what'olhe punch Nne?" 
Coun-von Dracula: Your handl make me 95 percent jelloi-Pizza neck 
Molly How'o "fe in old Eire?? No Blarney about it, we a1 miu you eapecialy the equellrian policeman in SP:Hnlield!! Take care. LDve the party chickl. 
Happy 18th Birthday to our Nttle Robby. Welcome to the AduH Workl 
R.C.B. Try not to make a ,._ on your BIG day! I am not going to clean up! Maybe lOon though, you never know. 
peuarecool 
THIS IS YOUR CHANCEl VOLUNTEER FOR THE SOUTH BEND ELDERLY • 1 hour and 17 minute aeriou1 but fun meeting/worltlhop/lllm -Wad. Oct 30 
6:30 117 Haggar. Call 238-5278 with quelliona. 
TO All GUYS INTERESTED IN THE GIRL WITH THE SEXUALLY BLATANT HAIRCUT, BE SURE TO ACK· NOWLEOGE TRACEY HEINBECKER'S 20TH BIRTHDAY WITH A PHONE CALL AND A HUGE KISSI 132 LEWIS HALL 2678. HAPPY BIRTHDAY BABYI FROM YOUR MORALLY CASUAL BUDDIES IN LYONS!!!! 
TRACEY, GUESS YOU CAN'T YELL AT ME FOR NOT ACKNOWLEDGING YOUR BIRTHDAY THIS YEAR. HAVE FUN IN THE COMPUTER LAB! HAVE A HAPPY BIRTHDAY! LOVE, SUZICAT 
Hey! Nancy Hor1t1, We hear thltl your car ohal<ee at 69. If anyone io interaaled in a lrea demonstration. call 2799. And Molly Shannon, are you the cute blonde with HUGE... that Tom and Whitey don't remember being with? Guys il you have had a similar experience. call herat2B70, and tell her that you remember' 
OFF-cAIIPUI lli1P TO IIUL.DOONI WED.7P.II. 8$ INCLUDES .UIIIIDE AND A BIQ IPECIAL IUPIWIE ANY ??? CALL MCE 272-2478 or!lEAVEII PLEASE MAKE "EIE,.VI IV TUES P.M. 
Bed & breakfut,lootball weekendl, NO I SMC parents. 2 night minimum. 12 mina. from campus. $47 per night. Call 291· 6152. 
You wanted it made public, right? O.K., 
-dub thea "Johnny T Slipo Cube root Flincher Steven Frank Rubridge" No •-t· !JR. P.S. the loll il now oturdy. beware!! 
THE PET STORE PARTY IS COMING!!!! THE PET STORE PARTY IS COMING!!!! THE PET STORE PARTY IS COMING!!!! 
HI Norkll Beware the 801 cookie bakeoll iecomming!!! 
Sex. drugs, rock and roll, tuneage, doobage, and lood. 
KEN LUMB Oh, Hi Hon! You've been the biggeat and beet part of my tile lor the put two yeara. I love you too much. Your one and only always, Andrea. 
i love ann murphy even though lhe likee to :!rink beerl!! teea and mj 
HAPPY 8-DAY ELAINE 
LOVE. THE GANG 

HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY 
MURPHY! 

Auguata Party Animals-Welcome 
Luv,MB 
HEY YOU,I<LEPTO,YEAH YOU 
FINK. GUMBY SAYS HAVE A 
BIRTHDAY DAMBOT 

MITCH HITS GEORGETOWN and the IOfeign competition ...-d 
Suchi and Mr. Iranian II!! Wa11 to CJO ~Htch 
pceaible future fling in 

M.G. really be the man for you? s.:eat trip-can't wait to tour Europe apring with ya. Love, JB 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~
-

The Observer Tuesday, October 29, 1985-page 11 
Iowa retains No.1 spot in AP poll 
Iowa remained a unanimous No. 1 
as the nation's top college football 
team for the second week In a row 
yesterday while defending national 
champion Brigham Young suffered 
Its second loss of the season and 
skidded from seventh place to 17th. 
The 7-0 Hawkeyes, 49-l0 winners 
over Northwestern, received all 58 
first-place votes and a perfect 1,160 
points from a nationwide panel of 
spons writers and sportscasters In 
the Associated Press poll. 
Over the last 13 years, the only ot· 
her team to be voted a unanimous 
No. 1 for two consecutive weeks 
was Nebraska early In the 1983 
season. 
The first six teams all held onto 
their spots from last week. Runner­
up Florida, a 35-18 winner over Vir· 
ginia Tech, received 1,060 points 
while Penn State blanked West Vir­
ginia 27-0 and totaled 1,025 points. 
Fourth-ranked Michigan received 
994 points after trouncing Indiana 
42-15, No. 5 Nebraska downed 
Colorado 17-7 and received 912 
points, and sixth-ranked Auburn 
turned back Mississippi State 21-9 
for 866 points. 
BYU's stunning 23-16 loss to previously winless Texas-El Paso dropped the Cougars 10 places In the ranldngs. Meanwhile, Air Force, another Western Athletic Con­ference team, climbed from eighth to seventh with 764 points by defeating Utah 32-15 . 
Ohio State pulled out a 23·19 tri­umph over Minnesota and rose from ninth to eighth with 682 points while Minnesota fell out of the Top Twenty. Oklahoma moved up from 
lOth to ninth· with 655 points by 
crushing Iowa State 59-14, and 
Florida State went from 11th to 1Oth 
with 592 points by rallying to beat 
North Carolina 20-10. 
The TOll TWM!Iy oollege foollll -In 1M ,_. ..,_,_pol, with~-In~ 
~. thle -··reconle end IOIIII'Oif*, Pol'* 
~on 20-111-18·17 etc.-o.m. opponen1e 
..~We/Zed. 1. IOWII{58) 7-o-Q 1180 2. Florldll 6-0-1 1080 
3. Penn St. 7-o-Q 1025 4. Michigan 6-HJ ~ 5. NebrMica 6-1.0 1112 
6. Auburn 6-1.0 filM! 7. Air Fan:e 8-o-Q 7&4 8. Ohio 81. e-1-o 882 11. Oldehoma 4-1-o &55 
10. Florida St. e-1-o 5112 fl. Miami (Fla.) 6-1.0 548 12. oo.homaSt. ~1-o 5311 13. Baylcr 7·1.0 537 14. ~ 6-1.0 466 15. UCLA 6-1·1 3114 IIJ. LSU 4·1.0 287 17. BYU 6-2.0 182 18. a-,;.. ~1-1 113 1e. r..,_ 3-1-2 s1 
20. SMU 4-2-o n 
The Second Ten consists of Miami 
(Fla.), Oklahoma State, Baylor, 
Arkansas, UCLA, LSU, BYU, Gt:orgia, 
Tennessee and Southern Methodist. 
Last week, it was Florida State, Ok­
lahoma State, Baylor, Arkansas, 
Miami, Tennessee, UCLA, LSU, Texas 
and Minnesota. 
However, Texas was drubbed by 
SMU 44-14 whtle Minnesota lost to 
Ohio State. SMU made the rankings 
at No. 20 after a two-week absence 
and Gt:orgia, which had been mis­
sing for just the last week, reap­
peared as No. 18 by defeating 
Kentucky 26-6. 
1717 E. Soulh Bend Ave Soulh Bend. Indiana 46637 (219) 272·4135 

Promotions announced 
Briefs 
continued/rom page 10 

A Red Cross water safety Instructor course 
sponsored by NVA will hold an organization meeting on Monday, Nov. 4, at 7 p.m. at Room 218 ofthe Rockne Memorial Building. For more information about the course call the NVA office.· Tbe Obser­
ver 
An NVAweighttrainingworkshop wm be 
held Tuesday, Nov. 5 at 7 p.m. in the Rockne Weight Room. Gary Well, strength and conditioning coach, will be on hand to demonstrate proper techniques. For more information call the NVA office. · Tbe Obseroer 
NVA interhall basketball rosters must be sub­
mitted to the NVA office in the ACC by November 6. There is a 125 entry fee for men's teams and a S20,entry fee for women's teams. For more information call the NVA office. · Tbe Observer 
NVA Grad and Club basketball rosters must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by November 6. For more information call the NVA office. · Tbe Observer 
NVA interhall hockey rosters must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by November 6. There is a team entry fee of S35 to be submitted with a roster. For more information call the NVA office. -Tbe Obseroer 
NVA table tennis tournament registrations must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by November 6. The tournament is open to students, stall, and faculty, and will be single elimination. For more information call the NVA office. -Tbe Observer 
'• 
Halloween Party 
1 

.fl
\ Jazz Kar~1dscope 
;­
7p.m. -Midnight Americana Hotel (6th Floor) Admission: $5 
Come in Costume! 
r• .,• 
GOFROMCO~GE~THE~Y 
WITHOUT MISSING A BEAt 
The hardest thing about break­of 40 performances a month, there's read music, performing in the Army mg into professional also the opportunity for travel-could be your big break. Write: music is-well, break­not only across America, but possibly Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort ing into professional abroad. Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216-5005. music. So if you're Most important, you can Or call toll free 1-800-USA-ARMY. looking for an oppor­expect a first-rate pro­tunity to turn your fessional environment musical talent into from your instructors, a full-time perform­facilities and fellow ing career, take a musicians. The Army good look at the has educational Army. prof...rrams that 
It's not can help you all parades pay for off­and John Philip duty instruc­
Sousa. Army tion, and if hands rock, you quai­waltz and b(x)gic Ifv. even as well as march, help you and they perform repay hef()reG mecrt au­your 
diences as well federally-insured 
ARMY BAND.
student loans. 
If 
BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
'lbe Observer sports depart­ment announces two promo­tions. Eric Scheuermann, a junior accounting major from Stowe, Vt., will be one of two new assis­tant sports editors. Scheuer­mann, who began writing for The Observer as a freshman, has been 
a  sports  copy  editor  since  
January, 1985.  
The  second  assistant  sports  

editor will be Marty Burns, a sop­homore from Chicago, Ill. Burns, who is enrolled in the College of Arts & Letters, has written for The Observer since his freshman year and has held the position of sports copy editor since March, 1985. 
Along with present assistant sports editor Larry Burke, the two will assist the sports editor in a variety of tasks, including story development and assignment, staff management, training of new personnel, filing and for­mulation of sports department policies. 
Both appointments are ef­fective immediately. 


J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 
oo ~~ 
BE A GHOST THIS HALLOWEEN! 
Call about our Halloween special 277·7026 
-----~---­
.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------­
The Observer 
Line 
continuedfrom page 16 
hardly scratched out there. We're 
making less mistakes. It makes my 
job easy." 
It made everyone's job easier. 

With the Irish able to move the ball 
downfield via the rush, Irish quarter­
back Steve Beuerlein was able to 
pass when it was not totally ex­
pected, thus gaining more time to 
throw. 
Simply put, the Irish were finally 

able to set up the pass with the run 
Saturday, instead of having to do it 
the other way around. 
And with the offense able to grind 

first downs out on the ground, the 
Irish defense was able to get some 
much-needed rest it had not been 
getting in past games when the of· 
fense was not able to move the ball. 
"We just got whipped in every 

phase ofthe game," said Trojan head 
coach Ted Tollner. "Their line just 
came off the ball so fast, and their 
backs came right up and ran right at 
us." 
It was the kind of line play that WllS expected from the start of the season, but has only recently ap· peared. Team captain and starting guard Tim Scannell had some thoughts on this development. 
"Consistency is the key with the play ofa line," said Scannell. "If one guy screws up, the whole team screws up. And earlier in the yearwe were taking turns screwing up on the line. Now it seems like the errors are disappearing. 
"It should have been that way ear­lier in the year," he said, "but it's just a matter ofgetting better each week and coming together more. We're just having more fun and are more relaxed now. I think we've im­proved each week and I think we'll continue to do that." 
And Faust sounded very different this time than he had on that sad Saturday after his squad had been bowled over by Michigan. 
"You've got to give credit to the offensive and defensive lines," he said. "Our offense, both the first and second units, moved the ball ex­tremely well. 
"The offensive line is coming off the ball much better. And they're healthy now. Southern Cal was ranked fifth in the country on defense, and I think they're a bit quicker than they were last year. And we moved the ball great dis­tances down the field. The offense helped the defense out. 
"The confidence is starting to come," he continued. "We're start· ing to make things happen." 
Indeed they are. With a tough schedule ahead of them, however, the Irish will need continued strong play from the men blocking in the trenches in order to continue making things happen. 
NV A gives all-nighter 
Spedal Co the Obeerftr 
The department of Non-Varsity 

Athletics has announced the first­
ever all-campus all-nighter to be 
held in the ACC. The campus all­
nighter is scheduled to begin the 
evening ofNov. 15, and will run into 
the morning hours ofNov. 16. 
The all-nighter will include sport· 

ing tournaments in basketball, in­
door soccer, broom ball, innertube 
water polo and volleyball. This will 
be the first all-campus event to make 
use ofthe new natatorium. Other ac­
tivities planned are all-night 
aerobics, open skating, racquetball 
and squash tournaments. 
Proceeds from the event are 

slated to support the Special Olym­
pics of St. Joseph's County. Special 
Olympics is a program of sports 
training and competition for men­
tally retarded individuals. Locally, 
Special Olympics involves over 400 
athletes. 

'lbc UbiUVU/Hannca Hacka' 
This University ofSouthern California cheerleader seems con­cerned as she views the Irish destroy the Trojans, 37·3. But her ap­pearance at the game was viewed with joy by much of the Notre Dame student body. Details ofthe USC game appear on pal!e 16. 

130 U.S. 31 North 1 Mile North of Compus 
277-4519 FREE DELIVERY 
1 -------------------------Tuesday I 1 Wednesday I • Sunday 1 
I I
I
I 14", 1 item I 16", 1 item 118", 1 item I 
I $5.9_:j $7.95 I $9.951 
Call before 11 Call before 11 L~!before 9:30 1
L-----------____..
' 


Tuesday, October 29, 1985-page 12 
r-------------------,
Bring In This Coupon And Save 


Soft Contact Lenses 
Daily Wear $49.50 
Includes B&L. DuraSolt. CIBA and American Hydron 
Extended Wear $79.50 
Includes B&L. AO Soltcon 
Tinted $89.50 
Spherical Dally Wear 
Includes B&L. CIBA and CTL Chem-care kits are included at no extra cost. Other brands, torics, bifocals and specialty lenses available at nominally higher cost. Coupon and student/faculty identification must be presented at time of order. No other discounts apply. 
South Bend, Scottsdale Mall 291-2222  
Elkhart, Concord Mall  8 7 5-7472  
[(,,~\]'---"· II ·I  Offlc.. lhroupout lnd._na Open All Day saturday and Sunday Mall Hours PROFESSIONAL J:YE EXAMINATION AVAILABLE BY OPTOMETRIST WITH OFFICE ON PREMISES  

L~------------------~ 

The Observer 
Tuesday, October 29, 198'5 -page 13 

Trojans 
continuedfrom page 16 
An independent student newspaper serving 
Junior Don Shafer kicked the ball
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­
from 39 yards away after missing an 
plications for the following position: 
earlier 34-yard attempt. "They didn't do anything to baffle
• CopyChief 
us," said quarterback Sean Salisbury -responsible for training all copy who became the Trojan career pass completion leader on Saturday,
editors and maintaining consistent 
completing 21-of-34 for 191 yards.
style throughout the newspaper 
"They just played hard." With injuries on the defensive 
Resumes and personal statements are due to Sarah or Amy 
line, the Irish were forced to Thursday, Oct. 31 at 5 p.m. maneuver people around and utilize a healthy linebacking corps. With
For more information, call The Observer at 239-5313 
tackles Wally Kleine and Greg Din­gens not being able to play due to injuries, the Irish started senior M~e
********************************** 
!* The Student Activities Board
! presents 
E * F.O.B.I.S. FEST 
*
! (Fun Outside Before It Snows Festival) 
: In conjunction with the United Way Drive~ five linebackers, using dther two or 
* 
*
* Monday, Oct.28 ••••••Outdoor pertonnance
by the Shenanlgana, the
* 
Jazz land, the Dancing

* 
lrllh. ft"om 12-1pm out·

* 
lldeSouth Dining Hall. 

* 
Tuesday Oct.29••••••"LoaevourFatFunRun"

* 
' C<HPOfliiOred with Non·

* 
Valllty Athletics at 4pm. 


AdmiAion $2.00. Regia·** tratlon at dining halls
* 
and at SA8 olllces.

* 
Wednesday, Oct.30•• Night Alumni·


at the
* Senior Club. 9pm-2am.
! Thursday, Oct.31.•••• Halloween Masquerade
* 
Costume Party. South

* 
Dining Hall, 9:30pm-?

* 
$1.00 donation to United

* 
Way.

* 
Friday, Nov.1-••••••••••Ftrst F.o.s.t.s.


Annuot Fest Dorm Quad Parade
* 
Parade around campus

* 
starting at Admin. Bldg.* ond ending at the pep

* 
rally. Features the Notre

* 
Dome Marching Band.

* 
6pm Rock-a-Like contest

* 
Up-sync contest for United Way, North** Dining Hall from 9-11pm. 


Registration at dining : halls and at SAB ofllces. 
Kiernan for the second straight
* week at nose tackle along with sop­
! 
homore Jeff Kunz in his first start! ever at right tackle. Senior Eric Dorsey, who remains the only defensive lineman to start
* 
in every game, made seven tackles
E 
including a fourth quarter sack of Salisbury for a 12 yard loss. Due to
* 
the lack of depth on the line, the
~ 
Irish were creative In their use of 
three down linemen for much ofthe
* pme.
* 
~ "I believe that having the five outside linebackers was the key for
-M4 
us because: USC's linemen weren't
* 
usc:d to handling quick, very technique-oriented players," ex­
* 
* 
plained Dorsc:y.* 
To go along with a strong
*
* 
defensive effort, the Irish also put

* 
forth an outstanding offensive effort


* 
with their first and second units
* 
both dominating the line.

* 
"Sure our offense is predictable," said Pinkett who rushed for over


~ 
I00 yards for the 21st time in his
*
* 
career with 28 carries for 110 yards.

* 
"We're 
going to try to take the ball* and shove it down the other team's! throat. 


*
* 
** Army
*
*
* 
continuedjrompage 16
* 
* 
broke the frustration. We weren't so
*
* worried and we just went out and 
played."
* ******************************* * "They certainly had the momen­

tum after we fumbled early," noted Army head coach Jim Young. "That play took a lot out of us and fired them up. We knew we had to be at our best and get a few advantages from them, but we made our own mistakes." 
Notre Dame made no mistakes on two long scoring drives which sealed the victory. The first of these
CONTACT LENS 
drives carried 86 yards on II plays, "There's no substitute for execu­
tion," continued the senior. "I've 
come out ofthe last three games wit· 
bout a scratch because the offensive 
line has blown open some huge, 
gaping holes." 
In the first half, the Irish did not 
have to punt as they scored five 
times and went Into the locker room 
with a 27-0 halftime lead. 
On their second possession, the 
Irish capped a 71-yard drive when 
Irish quarterback Steve Beuerleill 
scrambled into the end zone on a 
third-and-four play from the six-yard 
line. The score was the first one the 
junior had scored running so far In 
his collegiate career and increased 
the Irish lead to 14-0. 
In the second period,John Carney sandwiched a five-yard touchdown run by fullback Frank Starns with field goals from 26 and 33 yards away. A 43-yard kick late in the third 
"quarter marked the sixth time that 
the junior has kicked three or more 
field goals in a contest for the Irish. 
With less than two minutes to go In the game, Joel Williams finished the Irish scoring with an eight-yard touchdown reception from sop· homore Terry Andrysiak. The scores by Starns and Williams were both made with the second team of­fensive unit ofthe Irish. 
"Our second team played excel­lent football," commented Faust. "Playing two units also helped in wearing them (Southern Cal) down." 
Coming out at half-time, the Irish not only carried a commanding lead. The also carried green jerseys on thdr backs.for the second time in three years. 
"I went along with it (wearing the green jerseys) because they scored so many points in their last two games," said Faust in recollection of a game that the Irish lost 55-24 to the Trojans in 1974 after taking a 24­6 half-time lead. "We had it set for 

NoTRE DAME
SALE 

N,S BASKElRALL
DAILY WEAR SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
RETURNS TO THE A.C.C.
Clear Daily Wear Spherical Contact 
$39.98* 
Lenses from Bausch & Lomb. 
EXTENDED WEAR CONTACT LENSES 
Softmate 30-day extended wear 
$39.98*
spherical contact lenses 
SOFT TINTED 
:t~a~!~n~~en=~h~~t:n~ $79 

LET'S 'PUSI-4 '11-IAT
correct your vision, they enhance the color 
.98* 
of your eyes. Available in permanently tinted, natural colors of green. aqua, 'blue or brown. 
TICI.<ET TO""DtL OVER 
~u: OF CAPACITY
"Price does not lnlude an eye examination which Is required at the time of purchase. 
Visa-MasterCard-Medicaid-Insurance Programs Welcome Open 6 Days A Week With Evening Hours 
LET •s ResuRRECT 
SOUTH BEND: 1111 E IRELAND RD...291-4000 MISHAWAKA: 506 W McKINLEY•..258-5000 
-nl6 

"Til MAN 
Also OHices in Indianapolis, Kokomg, ~ncie, Anderson, Terre Haute, Richmond, Franklin, New Castle, Lafayette, Sloominaton, Columbus, Marion, ShelbyVille 

OF NoTRE DAME II..
• 


and carne shortly after the opening touchdown in the first quarter. The Irish scored this touchdown when a play-action fake drew the coverage off flanker Tim Brown, leaving him wide open in the end zone for Beuerlein to hit from 19 yards out. 
The second offensive drive carne in the third quarter after a Craig Stopa field goal for the Cadets had cut the Notre Dame lead to 14-10. After the kickoff the Irish marched 82 yards on 14 plays, reaching payditt on a goal-line leap by Pinkett. The drive, in chewing up over six minutes of the clock, seemed to break the spirit of the Cadets. 
"The drive early in the third quarter took time off the clock and was very important," said Faust. 
the second half, and we felt that It would stir up the crowd." 
"We were surprised when we came into the lockerroom and saw the green jerseys," said Pinkett. "I guess it has become somewhat of a tradition since the first time they did it In 1977." 
Overall, however, the Irish vic­tory was directly attributable to the players under the jerseys according to Faust, whose team is playing relaxed and Improved football. 
"The team is taking more of a relaxed approach to the game," said Irish guard Tim Scannel. "We're playing football and we're not worried about making mistakes." 
"What we need to do," adds Dor­sey, "is to get a couple of games un­der our belt with a lot of points on our side and a few on thdr side In order to get the confidence we need. After we destroyed Army and beat USC, we're on our way." 
.............. 
Southern C8l  0  0  3  0  3  
No4re 0.....  14  13  3  7  37  
a-~,.  

NO • Pinkett 2 run (c.m.y lUck) NO· a.u..-n II run (c.m.y loick) NO· FO c.m.y 211 NO· St.me 5run (c.m.y lUck) NO· FO c.m.y 33 USC· FO llhm• 311 NO· FO c.m.y 43 NO· WI.....8 p.-lrom AndryNk 
uac NO 
Firat~ 18 18 
R'*'lng.Uempl8 34 411 Net Y.U. Rulhlng 102 217 Net Y.U. P-'ng 244 118 
p-~pted 2&-42 1().17 
H..:llnteroept-.:1 1 1 Totlll Net Y.U. 3441 336 Fu~ 4-3 1.0 PeNIIti_.y8fdl 4-35 1H10 Pu,_..-ge 3-211 4-43 lnclvl.,.. LAecleN 
RUSHING • South.., c.l: Crutcn. 15-50; EmMUel 13-48; P«* 3-8; Webury 3-(-4); Notre 0.....: PI-28-110; F....a.co1G-57; a.m. 4-31; MoriiiMn 4-14; a.u..-n 2-3; lnMn 1·2; 
PASSING· Southern Gel: Webury 21-34·1, 1111; P-4-7.(), 53 ; P«* G-1.0, 0; Notre o.m.: ...,__ lein 7·14·1. 82; Andryliak 3-3-0. 311; RECEIVING • Southern c.l: Corml• 7·54; Nor· 
111111'14-65; Amngton 3-17; Wlllhlnglon 2-311; Chelley 2-22; Crutch• 2·22; Po1112·7: McKM 1-11; EIIWIUel 1-4; Steele 1-4; Notre 0.....: Rellder 2-37; H.c:k 1· 23; St.me 1-15; wn 1·14: Miler 1-12: o.... 1-a; Wl.....1-3; FIWid8CO 1·5; Pl-1-i-4); 
"-.511,075 
"The offense moved the ball very well. Anytime you can take the ball 87 yards twice in a pme, that's a good offense. 
"We mixed it up and the players executed well," continued Faust. "We were really pleased because: we played a bona-fide team in Army." 
The Cadets were certainly for real, but then again, so were the three losses the Irish experienced earlier this season. But that, after all, was "last" season. 
CET $25,200FORCOLLEGE INTODAY'S ARMY. 
The rewards ofbeing a 
soldier just got richer. With The 
~w Gl Bill Plus The New 
Army College Fund. 
You contribute $100 a 
month from your first full 1Z 
months' paychecks (for a total of 
$1,2001. The government and 
the Army will contribute the 
rest !up to $9,600 from the gov­
ernment and up to $1-HOO 
from the Army, if you qualify). 
That's a great deal. 
And as a soldier, you'll also learn a great deal. The Army offers over 80 skills for train· ing. Many ofthe skills are high-tech, and man\' are skills you might want to pursue in college. 
Call your local Army Recruiter for all the details. 
SERGEA.NT LANE 
234-/1187 
ARMY. -~ALLYOU CAN BE. 




------------------~ ------------~-----~­
The Observer Tuesday, October 29, 1985-page 14 

Irish runners regain strong form 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame cross-country team made several major strides in regaining its winning form over the fall break. With first-place and third­place showings, the team is position­ing itself for what hopes to be a strong performance in the districts. 
On October 18, the Irish placed third in the Indiana Intercollegiate State meet. Purdue won the race easily with 20 points. Indiana finished second with 58, and Notre Dame totaled 78. 
Jim Tyler, John Magill and Ron Markezich placed seventh, ninth and eleventh respectively. They all ran well, finishing within 14 seconds of each other. 
Tom Warth took 16th, and Mike
The Olloerver/H110De8 Hacker 
Collins rounded out the top five by
junior hitter Karen Sapp is shown above in action from earlier this season. Overfall l»'eak, the volleyball team won two games 
finishing 35th. For Collins, this was his first race of the season. He had bis story below. missed the first three races because 
wbtle losingfive. ChuckEhrman provides details ofthesegames in 
Volleyball team picks up two wins 

By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
The story goes on. Another chap­ter in the season saga ofthe women's volleyball team was completed over break. 
Over break the team played in four different states against seven different teams in just one week. When it was all over the team had managed two victories to go along with five defeats. 
The Irish knocked off conference opponents St. Louis and Evansville. The team was beaten by Missouri, Oregon and three teams from California:Santa Clara, San Francisco 
and California-Berkeley. "We learned a lot out there (in California)," said coach Art Lambert. 

1717 E. South Bencl Ave. South Bend. indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135 

HOW WOULD YOU LIKE TO THROW SOMETHING AT STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT, BILL HEALY? 
Questions, comments, or violent dissent. 
Wed., Nov .. 30 at 8:30 pm Bill Healy will be in Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Room 122) 
He will answer all questions and concerns of interested students. paid advertisement 
"It was a worthwhile experience for at home as they face St. Francis (Ill.) the team." tomorrow. After the St. Francis game the Irish
Bad luck struck the Irish just will have to prepare for a showdownbefore the start of the Santa Clara ofepic proportions on Sunday whencontest when starting setter Jill they do battle with conference rivalSuglich suffered an injury that DePaul.
caused her to miss action. And with "DePaul is the best team in theMary McLaughlin already out with a conference right now," said Lam­broken finger, Lambert was forced bert. "They are just beatingto make a position change and put everybody."
Kathleen Morin in at the setter posi­Some big games are ahead for thetion. 
young Irish squad as it heads into the 
"Morin filled in well at the setter final part of the season. With some 
spot," said Lambert. "It was unfor­strong play, the the Irish squad 
tunate not to have our starting set­should be able to end the final half of 
ter, though." the season on the upswing. But only 
The Irish continue play this week time will tell. 
r---------------------------. ~ A'"0 Y"l1\ tt J\ J'J .N'\'""'1::::1.. 
~..£"'l.D r -'-­
FOBIS. FEST 
Nrqht at 1+.~ 
Alumf\\-£en\c~ C..(ub 1''th-ir\k , +he. \Jnit~ Wa'1 ' 
WeoNESCit\Y Oc.T. 3o 4-h 
q:COP" -2 : CC».al'n 
~ a ''2..~ 11 eVet-'\t. • 
ofa toot injury. Head coach Joe Piane believes there is still room for improvement. 
"We ran well, but not up to our potential," noted Piane. "We could have beaten Indiana if our fifth man had run better." 
Notre Dame will probably face both Purdue and Indiana in the NCAA District IV meet in Novem­ber. The Boilermakers simply ran away with the state meet, placing five runners in the top eight. The Hoosiers also ran well, as Marty Bas­sett and Mark Deady placed fourth and fifth respectively. 
"Indiana is traditionally a power," said Piane. "If you can beat them, you are almost assured ofmaking the NCAA championships." 
During break the team traveled to northern Michigan to train and to take a break from the usual routine. 
The following Saturday, October 26, the Irish traveled to Indianapolis to defend their Midwestern Col­legiate Conference title. The team finally ran as a group, and the result was an easy victory. 
Tyler again was the first Irish run­ner to cross the finish line, placing fourth. Then, to Piane's delight, a group of four Irish runners -Markezich, Warth, Magill and Craig Maxfield ·-finished in a 19-second spread, taking sixth through ninth places. 
"I'm happier with the way they ran," said Piane. "For the first time all year we ran as a pack." 
This meet also marked the fifth time in a row that Tyler has been the first Irish runner to cross the finish line. However, he still has yet to place first overall in a meet this vear. 
Both Piane and Conelly believe that there is much room for im­provement on the team. The fifth man has been a problem for all but the last meet. Also, Collins needs to be running up front with Tyler and Magill if the team wants to advance to the NCAA finals. 
There will be plenty of time, though, to iron out the problems as Notre Dame has no meets scheduled until the districts on November 16. 

Based on one of America's most loved essays Directed By WILLIAM RHYS 
Tuesday, October 29 Washington Hall 8:10 pm 
Tickets: $14 Main Floor, $12 Balcony, $10 Students and Senior Citizens Group rates available 
For ticket lnformatlon:(219)239·5957 
and see--•

You'll hear A every word 
---------------------------------------------------·----­

']I['~~C3L~------------------------------------------T_u_e_s_d.ay_,_o_c_t_o_b_e_r_2_9_,_19_8_s _.r.a~ge
__ __l_S 

Bloom County 

Zeto 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Chantilly product 5 Ancient Gr. coin 
9 Slip 14 Famous office 15 Apple 16 "Let's Make-" 17 Walked 20 Yoko­21 Before distant 
or lateral 22 Florid 23 Bewilder 24 Shrub genus 25 Shrewd 28 Cop.yread 29 Preserve 32 Slow In music 33 Test 34 Island near 
Java 35 Hit a grand 
slam 38 State strongly 39 Sleuth Wolfe 40 Concerning 41 Negative 
prefix 42 A Bombeck 43 Abundance 44 Corn lily 45 Season 46 Numeral style 49 Additional 50 Amusement 53 Makes progress 56 Peep show 57 Therefore 58 And 59 Have­
(Intend) 80 Neck-and-neck !11 Repair 
DOWN 1 Trademark 2 River to the 
S.vem 3 -·nine-tails 4 Guldonote 5 Not trans· 
parent 6 Petty officer 7 Buddhist 
mountain 
,~ ~ . '"' 

(: 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Righls Reserved 

10/29/85
Friday's Solution 

8 Zodiac sign 
9 Lip ornament 10 Turk. city 11 Chinese wax 12 Gob 13 Different 18 Track man 
19 "-for 
Sergeants" 23 Sweetener 24 Sun Valley 
state 25 Northern highway 
A S E lA 
26 Barrage 
V E S T 
27 Made of wood 
A R T E 
28 Over and above 
L E A R 
29 Golden Fleece 

retriever 30 Alaskan native 42 Wentout 31 Obscure 43 Clergyman 33 Wate., 44 Dramatist 
swelling Henrlk · 34 O.T. tower 45 Smithy 
36 Caruso 46 Uttar Pradesh 37 "Swan Lake" city 
for one 47 Paper measure 
<XII!(-~~XItk:')M{ ·• 
46 II. town 10/19/85 
49 Guided missile 50 FOR's pet 51 SALT par· 
tlclpant 52 Slgngas 54 Fixed charge 55 Too -I 
~~...... ..• 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


Kevin Walsh 
~:~THIS oc.c.uRENOEI 
AT A t\ILSA"Tl;R 6ERJ£
IT SEEMS "'I'Htrr SOME!<
NOTRE' !:tAME" OFFICIAlS 
THE" SAME" THE"'r'
IAAT'E' ARMit' ANI> USC.
WERe RJT ON Rfl>AI..el{r 
RAIS£1> WHAT HA\5
FANS' TRIED TO FRAME" 
SATUIIWI /4/tb WE'RE 
llf"CQME" A SVM!OC. CF
THe ~roDeNT BOI>Y. 
~TO lAKE MEAslJJ!S 
~w aN TI£...,....I'VJI.I 
~ Vll:£011\J£••• 
Suddenly, everything froze. Only the buzzing of the tsetse flies could be heard. The crackling grass wasn't Cu!""mings returning to camp after all, but an ammal who didn't like to be surprised. 
Campus 

•12:00  P.M.  Seminar,  Consistent  
Representation  and  the  Problems  of  
Democracy  in  Brazil,  Regis  de  Castro  

Andrado, Kellogg Fellow, Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
•12:30 
P.M. · 3:30 P.M. · Blood Drive, Health Center, Sponsored by St Edward's, Flanner and Sorin Halls, Last chance to donate for Kevin Hurley 

•4:30 
P.M. · Seminar, "Ontogenic Habitat Shifts in Fish aand Fro~", Dr. Earl Warner, Kel· logg · Gull Lake Biological Station, Room 283 Galvin Life Sciences Center, Sponsored by Department of Biologicaal Sciences 


•4:30 
P.M. · Lecture, "U.S. Middle East Policy", Mr. Alan J Kreczko, U.S. Department of State, Room 20 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by Mediterranean/Middle East Concentration 

•7:00 
P.M. · Presentadon, Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command, Room 20 Hayes· Healy , Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Open to Electrical Engineers in· terested in career opportunities with Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command 

•8:00 
P.M. · Meeting, Center for Social Con· cerns, Sponsored by RASTA, 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Breast ofTurkey BeefStuffed Pepper Seafood Newburg Baked Ham and Swiss 

TV Tonight 
10:00P.M. 16 RemiOIJlon Steele 
:Z8 Our Family Honor 
34 War: "Keeping the Old Game 
Alive"  
46  Dwight Thompson  
U:OOP.M.  16  NewsCcnter 16  
:z:z  22 Eyewitness News  
:Z8  Newswatch28  
34  Body Electric  
46  Lesea FaD Telethon  
11:30P.M.  16  Tonight Show  
:z:z  Simon  and  Simon/CBS  Late  

Movie: "Cool Million: Tbc Ab­ductlon ofBaynard Barnes" 
28 ABC News Nlghtline 34 Film Du Jour: "Ghost 
Loose" t:z:OOA.M. :Z8 Eye On Hollywood 12:30A.M. 16 David Letterman 2:00A.M. 22 Nightwatch 
;-.-:.;.~~ . ·~~. 
on the 
Saint Mary's Salisbury Steak with Brown Gravy 
Breaded Baked Fish Chicken Patty Sandwich 

6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 
7:30P.M. 
8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 
Cheese Soume 
:z:z  22 Eyewitness News  
22  CBS Evening News  
16  MASH  
:z:z  WKRP In Cincinnati  
16  Barney Miller  
:z:z  lbrec's Company  
16  TbcA-Team  
:z:z  CBS  Special:  Donald  
50th Birthday Party  
28  Who's the~  
34  "TechnolotJY at Work"  
46  Blackwood Brothers  
16  Riptide  

Duck's 
:z:z CBS Tuesday Nf8ht Movie: "Into Thin Air" 
:Z8 Moonlf8htlng 34 Nature: "Battle ofthe Leaves" 46 Lesea PaD Telethon 

. -,..<D;.<.>~•;.<.;~;.<~)-C~'>M(~;:J£<::0:.':<':0:· ·:•;·· ·~: 
1r~l, ,:~ W~e 1JrtsQ <&arll.ens : 
~ :Jl'~:l!i Basement of Lafortune:Enter through door near Crowley ~ 
9
! IJ .. ~
Discount for weekend flowers ordered in advance ~ _,.,.~ Hours ~ 
L-:.~..... O,!!_D~R NO,Y!!.CA!_!1~3-4242-. . Mon~,!~e..,J 


Tuesday, October 29, 1985-page 16 
Notre Dame rebounds to even record at 3-3 
coach Ted Tollner. "Ifsomething bad happens, you try to overcome it. And we never did."
Offensive line dominates in crucial win 
Irish running back Allen Pinkett bursts through one of the gaping boles opened by his improving offensive line on Satur­day_ A strong running game helped lead Notre Dame to its lopsided win over the Trojans. Against Anny the week before, 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
AssistantSports Editor 
When the Notre Dame football team started the season in desultory fashion with a 20-12 loss at Michigan, the offensive line received some of the blame. After the 37-3 crushing of USC on Saturday, that of­fensive line deserves much ofthe credit. 
Head coach Gerry Faust h;t it be known after the game against the Wolverines that the offensive line had played poorly. 
"Michigan contolled the line of scrimmage," said Faust after that disap­pointing first game. "Our offensive line just 
Irish regroup before Army game, wear down Cadets in 24-10 victory 
By MARlY BURNS 
AssistantSports Editor 
Notre Dame's season opener took place a bit later than usual this year. Five weeks later to be exact. 
At least that's what Irish head coach Gerry Faust and his players said Oct. 19 after they had dealt a convincing defeat to previously­unbeaten Army, 24-10, at Notre Dame Stadium. According to the fifth-year coach and his squad, the three sloppy losses and the ensuing onslaught of national criticism which marked the first part of the season now could be put in the past. 
"Coach Faust kept telling us this week that it was a new season," said an elated Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein after the game. "We can learn from what has happened, but it's now a new season." 
"We've been subjected to a lot of adversity," echoed tailback Allen Pinkett. "The criticism has come from all angles. It really preys on our nerves, but we have a lot of deter­mination and a lot of pride. We saw (the Army game) as a chance to fight back against that adversity." 
The Irish certainly fought hard in their second "season opener." And although the New Year's day bowl committees, may not accept Notre Dame's calender move back to the future, they will accept the fact that the Irish finally have proven that they have the talent to play a na­tional power and emerge victorious: 
This revelation was a first to Irish fans this season, but it was not the only "first" they encountered in the win over the Cadets. 
• 
Pinkett truly broke free for the first time this season, garnering 133 yards and a touchdown on 27 carries. In the process, the senior from Sterling, Va. placed his name in first place on the all-time Irish rus­hing charts with 3,556 yards to pass Vegas Ferguson's total of 3,472. 

• 
The win over 19th-ranked Army marked the first home victory over a nationally-ranked team since 1982. 

• 
The Notre Dame defense stopped a wishbone offense for the first time in a couple of years. The Irish bent but refused to break to the Cadets, holding them almost 200 yards shy of their rushing average and 32 points below their scoring average. 


The biggest "first" for the Irish, though, would have to be the way they played errorless football and turned Army mistakes into touch­downs. In fact, Notre Dame was able to take command of the game early didn't come off the ball at all. We aren't going to win when they do that. Ifwe can't open holes our game won't go." 
But it was not until the Army game last weekend that the line got untracked, al­lowing the Irish to wear out the smaller Cadet defense. 
And in the game against the Trojans, the line really blossomed for the first time. USC came into the game with a strong defense that was ranked seventh in the country against the rush, allowing only 82.8 yards per game. 
But the Irish consistently were able to run over the Trojans, gaining 217 yards on 

Irish bombard USC, take 37-3 victory 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 

For the third time in three home dates, the Irish succeeded in destroying their opponents. For the third straight year, the Irish also succeeded in knocking off their Pac-1 0 rival, USC, the first time they have done so since the 1957-61 period. 
Silencing critics for the second straight week, the Irish seem to have turned things around after destroy­ing Southern Cal Saturday afternoon by a 37-3 margin and improving their record to 3-3 on the season. 
"We're getting better," said a pleased Irish head coach, Gerry Faust. "What happened in the beginning was that nobody knew how good Michigan was. and we played well against them. We played well the next week too, but then we stunk against Purdue. The next week, though, we played well against Air Force and we've played well since then." 
For the second Straight week, the Irish began their first possession following a turnover. Against Army, a week earlier, the Irish recovered a fumbled pitch and followed with a 16-yard touchdown drive which set the tone for a 24-1 0 Notre Dame win. 
Saturday, Irish junior Troy Wilson recovered a fumble caused by freshman George Streeter on the opening kickoff. Racing down the middle of the field, Streeter knocked the ball loose from USC sophomore Randy Tanner at the Trojan 11-yard line, and WilsOn recovered at the two.
Pinkett broke the all-time Notre Dame rushing record fonnerly 
Ten seconds into the contest, the Irish grabbed a
held by Vagas Ferguson. Mike Cbmtel details the USC game at right. 
quick 7-0 lead as Allen Pinkett swept left and into the end zone on Notre Dame's first play from scrimmage. "You try to be prepared for things to go wrong in the opening kickoff situation," explained Southern Cal head 
when Army committed its only tur­nover of the day on the second play from scrimmage_ 
On the option, Army quarterback Tory Crawford pitched the ball over halfback William Lampley's head and in front of Irish safety Steve Lawrence, who fell on it at the Army 16-yard line. After Beuerlein ( 12 completions out of 20 attempts, 186 yards) hit split end Alvin Miller for a first down, the Irish had first and goal from the four-yard line. 
At this point Faust, who had seen his team squander similar scoring opportunities all season, put in a three-man backfield with which the team had been practicing for two weeks in preparation. The strategy worked four plays later when junior fullback Pernell Taylor lunged over from the one. The touchdown gave the Irish a quick 7-0 lead and, more importantly, the confidence and momentum with which they would play the rest ofthe way. 
"It gave us lots of confidence," said Pinkett in reference to the early Irish touchdown. "Our offense has lots oftalent, and when you don't get touchdowns it is extremely frustrat­ing. Once we got the touchdown it 
see ARMY, page 13 
the field, they were unable to score, even though they 49 carries, the highest rushing output for outgaincd Notre Dame, 346 yards to 335 yards. • A the team yet this year. spirited Irish defense was able to keep Southern Cal 
Tailback Allen Pinkett, who rushed for from its endzone for the first time since 1966 when 110 yards on 28 carries, seemed especially Notre Dame notched a 51-0 triumph. pleased with the execution ofthe offensive "We knew before the game that Notre Dame would line. be the most physical team we have played all year," said 
"People say our offense is predictable," Tollner. "We knew their size and strength matched up said Pinkett. "Well, you're darn right it's to ours and we knew they have the potential to be the predictable. We want to go out and shove best they can. Notre Dame played an excellent ball the ball down a team's throat. game and deserves the credit." 
"It was simply a matter of execution," In their last two games, the Trojans downed con­continued Pinkett. "Our offensive gave me ference rivals by scores of 63-0 and 30-6. This week huge, gaping holes to run through. I was they were limited to a late third quarter field goal. 
see LINE, page 12 see TROJANS, page 13 
The Oboerver/Chalunya 

Anny quarterback Tory Crawford attempts to pitch the ballas be is dragged down by Irish defensive tackle Eric Dorsey in tbe tbtrd quarter of Notre Dame's 24-10 victory on Oct. 19. On the play, Crawford pitched to teammate William Lampley who carried the ball into the end zonefor an apparent touchdown. Referees ruled Crawford's knee bad touched the ground, however, and nullified the score. Marty Burns details the game at left. 





