
Educator -page 4 

VOL XIX, NO. 13S 
FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1985 

Hall presidents call for student input in future evaluations of rectors 
By SCOTI BEARBY 
Assistant News Editor 
The Hall Presidents' Council is dissatisfied with the administration's methods and decision to remove Carron Hall Rector Father Steve Gib­son. 
They want the students to have 1110re input in the evaluation and hiring of rectors in the future. 
HPC made these statements at a special session hdd last night to con­tinue discussion on the administra­tion's procedures in the hiring and firing of rectors and to draw up an official response for Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson. 
Tyson met with HPC Chairman Kevin Howard before the meeting to detail the procedures used when hiring rectors. According to Howard, there are four steps which rector candidates need to take before the University will hire them. 
There are three major areas the University concentrates on when in­itially judging candidates, according to Howard. Anyone seeking a rector position passes to a first screening after they are judged to possess the necessary disciplinary, ad­ministrative, and pastoral abilities. 
Tyson, along with administrative officials Father Francis Cafarelli, Sister Jean Lenz, and John Goldrick conduct a second screening. At this point, according to Howard, a final set of prospective rectors goes through another interview. 
'This interview is with a four mem­ber team, which does include four hall resident assistants. 
Other than the four resident assis· tants, students do not have a great deal of input. Unlike previous years, students were not given an oppor· tunity to evaluate rectors. Howard said the administration viewed the old survey as too unscientific and are currently having a new evalua· tion form devised. 
HPC is seeking to have a bigger student voice in determining what qualities should be looked for in a rector. Based on ideas submitted from each hall, a list will be compiled and given to Tyson. This list included such factors as approac­hability, fairness, and consistency when dealing with students. It also stressed the fact that rectors should be able to take charge of day to day hall functions and be a good ad­ministrator. 
Carroll Hall President Steve Kern asked the HPC to issue a strong state­ment against the administration's al­leged firing of Gibson. 
According to Kern, Carroll Hall is in the midst of a campaign to make students aware of the administra­tion's action. Included in these plans is a mass in front of Carroll on Sun­day night. 


Presidential campaign of Jackson discussed 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
Copy Editor 
"The goal of the Jesse Jackson campaign was not to win the presidency or win the vice presiden­tial nomination," said Professor Lorn Foster of Pamona College, speaking last night onJackson's recent run for the presidency. 
"The basic goal of the campaign was black empowerment-to in­crease the number of registered black voters, to increase the number of blacks running for office, and to increase the number of blacks hel­ping out in campaigns," Foster said. 
Foster, a professor ofgovernment and black studies, said the main sup­port for the Jackson campaign came from "social movement organiza­tions," most notably, he said, "the black church." 
"(His campaign) was a social movement. It was not traditional. There were no professionals run­ning the campaign," said Foster. 
Besides the Jackson campaign. Foster also spoke about the man himself. Jackson. he said, was not a "political leader," but a "social leader." 
"Jackson was an outsider. He was not in the mainstream of the Democratic campaign," said Foster. 
"ReverendJackson was somewhat of a renegade. Some adored him, some were skeptical about him, and some hated him. Whatever you thought ofhim. he created an aura of 
excitement just because of his presence." 
Foster, who was speaking on the topic "The Jackson Campaign as a Social Movement: An Analysis of the Jesse Jackson Presidential Cam­paign," said the reason Jackson lost the election was "not because ofthe issues." 
"What was most disheartening was that (Jackson) was discredited strictly because of his race," he said, adding that many in America are "skeptical of blacks who have po'"·er." 
"Blacks will crossover to vote for whites, but on the other hand, it is difficult to convince a majority of whites to crossover to a black can­didate," he added. 
Foster, whose · lecture was co­sponsored by the Black Studies Colloquium and student govern­ment, also addressed Jackson's relationship with the press. "The press had a love-hate relationship with Jackson," he said. 
"Jackson spoke extem­poraneously and he spoke flam­boyantly. On the other hand, he was a terrible story to cover," he said. 

"Spending time with Reverend jackson was like a protestant prayer. It was a new experience every day." This created problems for reporters, said Foster, because they had deadlines to meet and the)· "were never sure where (they) might be that day." 
:'­
~, !'
-., 


·• 
"'" ~-::.&­
-1 -· 
........ . . ,, -~-~ 
·. ~ 
w­--~ '!-.. --~.. y ;~' : ;:~ -~ 
• '"'4.;-_.._,. ·•. -·_ ~ ·. 
--$····~-~-­
( ~"' ' ~ ""'* :·~ .<: 
.... 
'• 
t' 
• 
t.. '• 
... 
,_\.. ..._._ 
.. ,_ 
lbt Obscrver/Johannts Hacker 
A shower a day ••• 
Dick the Bruiser? Mr. G.Q. ? No, it's just Mr. Fis­BM.O.Caround, just the wettest. Mt·. Stanford won 
her, a.k.a. Skip Holtz, in last night's Mr. Campus this highly competitive,prestigious event. The event competition at Saint Mary's Angela Athelic waspart ofthe An Tostal activities. Facility. Mr. Fisher was not judged the biggest 

Band kicked off stage at Senior Bar 
By KEVIN YOUNG 
StaffReporter 
Was it justifiable censorship? That was the question Wednesday night at Senior Bar when the Urban Gueril· las, the Minneapolis band ofthe year, was thrown off stage by the manage­ment. 
John Bowie, manager at Senior Bar said, "The band was blatantly of­fensive. That song "···· My Mother" was the last straw." 
The band opened their perfor­mance by asking the crowd, "Are you drunk enough to drink semen?" and abruptly ended their show with their song"···· My Mother". 
According to the band, the man who hired them, senior Bill Borg, had seen their show before. Larry Sahagian, the spokesman for the band, said, "We've done the same show in many other high schools and colleges and never had any com­plaints. Bill saw our show and he hired us." 
Borg had a different opinion. He said, "This was not the same act that I had seen. They were worse last night." 
About being thrown out, Sahagian stated,"We only did two things that were objectionable. If we had known it was going to be such a big deal we wouldn't have come. The crowd didn't want us to leave. They patrons were disgusted. I received numerous complaints about the band." 
were  cheering  us  on  for  more  
music."  
Bowie disagreed.  He said, "The  

Borg claims that he talked to the band before the show. He said, "I didn't specifically warn them, but they should have known better. I told them that it was a private uni­versity, and they would have to be careful." 
Whether thrown out justifiably or not, the Urban Guerillas want their money. They were booked for Wed­nesday and Thursday nights at 1250 a night, and they want all 1500. 
Bowie said, "We are still consult­ing our lawyers about that matter of payment for Thursday night's show. We'll reach a decision tomorrow." 


SMC investment policy examined 
Editor's Note: This ispartfourofa five part series dealing with the problems in South Africa and the relations of this conflict to the Notre Dame community. Today's articlefocuses on Saint Mary's in­vestmentpolicies in corporations with interests in South Africa. 
By ANNE GALLAGHER 
Senior StaffReporter 
Does Saint Mary's College invest in American companies in South Africa that support that nation's government policy of apartheid? 
They just don't know. 
According to Jason Lindower, 
controller and business manager of 
the College, and Dr. Jack Ruhe, 
chairman of the business and 
economics department, that ques­
tion cannot be answered at the 
present time. 
While the College does invest in at least one South Mrican com­pany, both men, members of a newly formed ad hoc committee on College investments, said they believe investment may be a good choice if the companies are promoting racial equality and are "good corporate citizens." 
Lindower said he recently learned from investment advisors that part of the College's endow­ment has been invested in the Newmont Mining Company, located in SouthAfrica, since 1977. 

Such investigation of the Col­lege's investment policies is fairly 

new to the administration. "Up un­til recent years · because our in­vestment portfolio was not that large -this wa'i not an important topic.," said Ruhe. "Now, with S I 5 million to invest we have begun to take notice of our investments. Granted, we are not a Harvard, Yale or Notre Dame. But we should represent the views of the Col­lege." 
A new committee made up of students, faculty, administrators, and Sisters ofthe Holy Cross, com­pleted a statement on corporate responsibility in investments two weeks ago. The statement addressed the South African issue, as well as such topics as corporate response toward· women and minonttes. This account was adopted by the Board of Regents la'it Saturday. 

In this statement, the committee listed three specific goals which must be fulfilled when considering investment for the College. These goals were: 
• 
Looking for and investing in firms whose mission statements and/or actions ensured dignity of persons and the quality of life and the en­vironment. 

•Considering 
annually at least one issue for education for all campus constituencies. 

•Identifying 
current issues of so­cial concern and recommending appropriate investment strategy. 





.... _ 
The Observer Friday, April 26, 1985 -page 2 

Bridget McGuire's Filling Station was raided last night by the Indiana State Police. The raid occurred at approximately 
12: l 5 a.m. and several arrests were made. ·The Observer 
The average millionaire is 57 years old, holds a college degree and is self-employed, says a professor who has spent more that 10 years studying affluent Americans. Tom Stanley, a marketing professor at Georgia State University, estimated there were 832,602 millionaires in the United States in 1984 and said the number has been growing at a rate of8 percent to 9 percent per year. California· with 114,427 ·had the most millionaires in 1984. -AP 
Some changes in parking areas for faculty will be ordered by the construction schedule for the new Law School addition. Notre Dame security officials said one-third of the present A-1 parking area south of Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering and east of the Post Office will be cordoned offand used for storage ofconstruc­tion materials and vehicles of workers. Motorists using this lot are asked to use the remainder of the A-1 lot, B-1, or the stadium parking area. · The Observer 
Three biologists at Notre Dame were 
recently elected to office in national and state scientific organiza­tions. Dr. George Craig, Clark professor of biology and director of the University's Vector Biology Laboratory, was elected vice presi­dent of the American Mosquito Control Organization. Dr. Paul Grimstad, assistant professor ofbiology, is serving as president ofthe Indiana Vector Control Association. Dr. Paul Weinstein, professor of biology, has been elected president of the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. ·The Observer 
Mary Keenan Reid, a candidate for a doctoral degree in psychology at Notre Dame next month, has been awarded a MacArthur Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship. A resident of Seattle, Wash., she will spend the next two years at the University of Washington where she will focus her research on early childhood transitions and crises. ·The Observer 
Of Interest 
J.S. Bach's "B Minor Mass" will be presented by the Notre Dame Department of Music in Sacred Heart Church Sun­day night at 8 p.m. and at the same time on Monday. Carl Starn will conduct the 4 5-voice Notre Dame Chorale and the Chamber Or­chestra in these performances. Soloists will be Mary Beaudoin, Marianne Lipson, Mary Nessinger, Michelle Rego and Doris Starn, sopranos; Beth Babbitt, Constance Barrett and Rachel Nigro, altos; and Father Patrick Mahoney, and Timothy Shilling, tenors. Guest soloists are baritones Ralph Klapis, Sunday, and Doyle Preheim, Monday. Instrumental soloists will be Laura Klugherz, music direc­tor of the chamber orchestra, violin; Andrea Mather, oboe; Korin Schilling, flute, and Elizabeth Fairlie, horn. Both performances are open to the public without charge. ·The Observer 
The Student Activities Board is sponsoring 
"We Can Make You Laugh," a live comedy show, tomorrow night at 
6. The show will be in Washington Hall. Tickets can be bought at the Rock DuLac record store in LaFortune Student Center and at the door.-The Observer 


Weather · 

Perfect party weather Partly --.. ~l 
-.
sunny skies and warm temperatures will ac­-o' 
'I' 
company the An Tostal festivities today with highs in the low 70s. There is a 60 percent chance of rain tonight with lows in the upper 40s to low 50s. There is a 30 percent chance that tomorrow's events be held in the rain with highs in the mid to upper 60s. -AP 

The Observer 
lb~ Observer ( l'SPS 599 .Z-4000) is publish<-d Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Obeerver is publistKd by ttK students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 530 per year ( S.ZO per~· mcster) by writing The Obee~r. P 0 
Box Q. Nocre Dame.Indiana 465~. 1be Obllerver is a member of lb~ .usoctaccd ~"reM. All reproduction 
nghrs are rncrvC"d. 

Oesigrz Editor.............. .......... Chri~ Bowler IJesign Assistant ............ Matt Gracianette 7ypesetters ...................... Bill HiW1ducheck 
Vic Guarino Neu-s Editor .......... ..................Jane Kravcik Copy Editor ................................John Heinz Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf VieU>point Copy Editor .........John Heasly Viewpoint Layout ........... Mariel Labrador Features Copy Editor .. Margaret McCabe Features Layout ............ Mark Mcl.auW11in NIJ Oay Editor ...................... Mark Winter~ SMC /Jay Editor ............... Toni Rutherford Ad Design .... .......................John O'Connor 
Kevin Murphy PbotrJgrapber .................... Hannt.-s Hacker 



LaFortune "business district" could meet student's needs 
The student-run stores at Notre Dame are evolving. And the next two years will determine if student-run stores will meet student needs effectively in the future. 
"Our experience is that students can be very respon­sible (running businesses.) Ifit's a student-run business, with students running it and working it, the business can be more responsive to students' needs," said former Student Activities Board Business Manager Chuck Van­Ravenswaay. 
VanRavenswaay was the first to hold the position of SAB.husiness manager. lbe position was created two years ago specifically to become a link between the SAB manager and the individual business managers. This link has brought a unified direction to the SAB businesses. 
Will the five current stores continue with the same type of merchandise in the future? The SAB Business Manager Rob Hoover said changes are already on the drawing board. 
The Student Saver general The Student Saver is an store and the Rock du Lac exception to the rule which record store will merge if governs the other student the administration clears the businesses, according to change, according to Hoover. "Part of the ac­Hoover. cepted proposal was that the 
"Ifwe combine the stores, administration would have it will help both," said approval over what the store Hoover. He said sells .... Unfortunately it strengths and weaknesses of will continue that way," the two stores are different. Hoover said. For instance, Rock du Lac is "It's in a crummy location, in a high-traffic area, which with crummy hours and, is good .for a business. The right now, with crummy in­Student Saver is in a poor­ventory. We're waiting for traffic area, but it sells the administration to ap­products which are more es­prove a list of 40 items and sential for students' every kind of dragging 
day living. A merger would benefit both businesses, ac­cording to Hoover. 

The biggest changes will result from the renovation of LaFortune. The renovation will begin this summer and is scheduled for completion in the fall of 1986. 
While the renovations are in progress, the student stores will have temporary locations. 
More important to the future of the businesses will be their permanent place in the overall renovation scheme of LaFortune. 
The renovated basement of LaFortune will contain a "business district" composed of the SAB businesses and the businesses presently located in Badin Hall. 
"The renovations will help us immensely," said Hoover. "For instance, you can wander around here (LaFortune) for days and never find the t-shirt shop," he said. 
"It is the key to the future," said VanRavenswaay. "Once they (the businesses) get down there, (the base­ment of LaFortune) I think it will be a turning point," said VanRavenswaay. 
So you thought Spring Break was over! Well not at Tippecanoe Place. We are extending Spring Break with a special offerfor students. Bring this ad In/or a special price 'Break'. 
$1.00 OFFourfabulous Sunday Brunch Good on the following Sundays: April21 Aprii28 MayS 670 W. Washington St.--Reservations Required--234-9077 

Frank Lipo Copy Chief 

The renovation of LaFortune will not solve every problem with the student businesses. The newest stu­dent store, the Student Saver, has the most bugs to work out. 
Hoover said the administration does not have direct control over the day-to-day operations of the businesses. But they can influence the long-term direc­tion of student businesses. The allocation of space in a remodeled LaFortune is one such case ofadministrative decisions affecting student businesses. 
their feet on it," Hoover said. 
The original agreement 
stressed the Student Saver would be allowed to sell only "generic" items, accord­ing to Hoover. Hoover said this restriction is too strin­gent. The Student Saver is not requesting the right to sell the same items as the bookstore, just brand name products that would attract students, he said. Some products aren't even available under a generic label, for instance, contact-lens solution, said Hoover. 
These problems, however, will not be impossible to overcome. The SAB now has a structure which has proven it can effectively manage student businesses. Hoover stressed he will be working closely with the student activities office on the renovations in the next year. 
Cooperation with the administration during the LaFortune space-allocation process and feedback from the students on which businesses should be included in the "business district" are essential to assure a smooth transition which will serve the needs of the student body. 
............. THE ROYAL BRONZEQueen's Castle* SUNTANNINGCENTER S4SSJ Terrace Lane, Across from Morfin's Z'72·0J12/2'72·14'71 *SEE A TAN IN MINUTES. ___ NOT HOURS! OUR BED OFFEilS: 1. F1eill TlltMr 2. lo Colerin& Crea~~~sIntroductory Prices: I.Wtt '*-in T1n 5 SeuiODI---­'25 3. It Bumin&o PMiinc orI Seuioas___ -'JS lhyinc 4. Site with U.V.A. BulbsREFUIH YOUil s7 If these Factors AreTAN IN MINUTES Present. You·ve Chosen The Proper Sun Tan BPd HOURS Tues Wed .&,, 83(}.5 3{) Thurs -8 30-8 30 Fn 8 30-6 30 QUliN'Swn£-loyal Iron"SuataaaiacCenter, 2'72·011212'72·1471 -Closed Monday­............  




··~ 
The Observer Friday, April 26, 1985 -page 3 
Notre DaDie Avenue ApartDients 
NOW REN11NG FOil FAIL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & malntenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good dealaforSummerSealon) 

081ce at 820 ND Ave 
or call 
open Mon-Frl3-6pm 
234 6647Sat 11-3pm 




Win a Porsche! 
Play the Domino's Pizza Game cards are available Fast, Free Delivery .. "No Problem" Game and at participating Domino's 
2n-2151 
you might win a brand .Pizza locations. Game 1835 South Bend Ave. 
new Porsche 944 Sports Rules are on the back of 
Car from Domino's Pizza the cards. No purchase South Bend
and Coke~· Just rub off necessary. the Problem section of the game card. Then rub Play the "No Problem" off the Solution section to Game and. Win! see if you won a prize 
such as a FREE serviflg Limited delivery area. of Coke~) toppings, pizzas Our drivers carry less or one of five Porsche than $20.00. 944's!! Hurry! Game ends May 19. 

0 1985 Domino's PIZZa, Inc. 
Two SMC juniors chosen to enter 
U. of Chicago early-entry program 
By SHANNON OAKES program. 'The College was picked for the classes they take. The stu­StaffReporter because of its "reputation for strong dents are on full scholarship at this liberal arts and the graduates that at­time. 
At least two Saint Mary's juniors tended MBA (at University of After graduation the students may wil! not be spending the summer on Chicago) and did well," said Gail defer for up to three years or enter the beach as they get a head start on Mandell, associate professor of MBA school upon receiving their 
graduate school work at the Univer­humanistic studies and chairman of undergraduate degrees. They are sity ofChicago. Saint Mary's selection committee. guaranteed admission. 
Kristi Stathis and Maribeth Kehl In addition to taking courses this have been selected to participate in Selections were based on the stu­summer, the students will also at­the early-entry program of the uni­dents' grade point averages, non­tend seminars given by prominent 
versity's Graduate School of Busi­academic participation, previously businessmen. ness. held jobs, writing and speaking skills "I can get information from 
The program, new this year, was and community involvement. people that I would not normally designed by the University of In addition to Mandell, Jack Rube, meet," said Stathis. Chicago to encourage liberal arts chairman of the department ofbusi­Mandell said the University of majors or students with a well­ness and economics, Mary Ann Chicago said a business background rounded education to consider at­Rowan, director of admissions, and is not necessary. The students tending MBA school. Mary Lou Gorno, ofthe University of chosen for this program have the 
"It's a great opportunity. It will Chicago's MBA School participated confidence, intelligence and help me a lot. I'm looking forward to in the selection process. capabilities to perform well, she it," said Kehl, a math major with a Stathis, a government and com­said. minor in business. munications major, said this is a 
According to program ad­"unique opportunity." According to both Kehl and ministrators, the varied back­"Having to compete with business Stathis, some background in busi­grounds of the liberal arts students majors could have been detrimental ness would not hun because the will enable them to offer additional to me. This program offered me a program is on the graduate school skills to potential employers. much better opportunity to get into level. 
"It will make a difference in the a school of the caliber of the Univer­"I think it's really an honor for the working world,"said Stathis. sity of Chicago," she said. University of Chicago to include 
Saint Mary's is one of twelve small The program, which runs from Saint Mary's," said Stathis. "I en­liberal arts colleges across the late June to late August, enables un­courage people next year to look country who participated in the dergraduates to receive MBA credit into the program." 

HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY GEORGE TONG C.B. 
LETS HAVE FUN AND LETS LAKE HIM ON THE 28th OF APRIL. 
from: 
ALL THE GOOD OLD BOYS 
•
• The Student Activities Board :
•
• 
"Leader in Entertainment" •• 

• 
presents 


• 
••• A 9PM. IIPM. and lAM showing of •• 
•
• • • •
• 
•
• • 
• .. 
• 
• 
: April 25 and 26 Engineering Auditorium : 
Correction 
Because of a reporting error, some information about the Tommy Shaw MTV concert was incorrect in yesterday's Obser­ver. Glenn Goodwin, who is producing the concert video, has not worked with the Police or the Rolling Stones, nor on the movie "The Making of Michael Jackson's Thriller." That movie was directed by Jerry Kramer, who also will direct the tomor­row night's concert video. 
Because of a reporting error, the speaker at Washington Hall last night was incorrectly listed. The correct speaker was Profes­sor Lorn Foster. 


The Observer Friday, April 26, 1985 -page 4 


Center nominates educator of year 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
SeniorStaffReporter 
William Bennett, secretary of education, has been nominated by the Thomas J. White Center for Law and Government as educator of the year. 
The award, named in honor of Thomas J. White, a 1937 Notre Dame graduate and well known at· torney, "annually seeks someone ad­vocating educational policies consistant with those of Mr. White." said Professor Douglas Kmiec, White Center Director. White has continually advocated the financial ability ofparents to choose between public and private education for their children, said Kmiec. 
Bennet will speak at 12 p.m. Tues­day in the Law School lounge. 
Bennett has suggested students meet aid cuts with "Divestitures of certain sorts, stereo divestiture, automobile divestiture, three weeks at the beach divestiture." 
Although Bennett may support giving parents the financial ability to choose at the elementary and secon­dary levels, his stance is different for the college education. In the February 25 edition of Newsweek, He said the federal government "can't afford to give every student the opportunity to go to the college ofhis choice." 
Bennett supported President Reagan's proposed denial of federally guarenteed student loans to families with incomes over $32,500. When Congess raised that proposed limit to S60,000, with an S8,000 limit on the total amount of aid, Bennett called the compromise 
"extremely reasonable." "People in higher education, I would think, would be very happy with the proposal." 
Bennett has been criticized for his choice of Dr. Eileen Gardner as an official in the newly created Office of Education Philosophy and Practice. Gardner, in a 1983 paper, written while serving as an analyst for the Heritage Foundation, a con-
Co•••nklttlon a. The•1ft' Fl._• ••tile S•lt• 
lncllv. admlulon $2.50 
Fri. Apr. 26 Kry•ztof Kieslo-.<ski 's Camera Buff (1960) A Keotonesque technological comedy 
7:30 pm 
i 
I 
CQI-lage of Scieoce 
f 
~ 
DistiDgaiued Scholar Lecture-Series 
{ 
( 
Pnsats 
( 
) 
Professor mario Borelli 
~rna Im~~fflfh 
•toaaputers ill Sciuce. BuiDess ud Sacietg: Uses aDd Rllases• 
Tuesdat. Bpril 3D. 1985 B:DD P.m. 
Mon. Apr, 29 Tues. Apr. 30 
Ors:::>r. 'Nellee' Max Ophuls' 
The Trial (1962) Le Plaisir (1952) 
A brilliant adaptatior. of the Kafka novel An exc~llent trilogy adapted from three 
7:00 pm Guy de Maupassont stories 
7:30 pm 

Great beacha, cryatal-dear waten, iacreda,le pricea. 

OOHBaHaMaS! 
It's aU waiting for you' 
on Nassau/Paradise Island, Freeport!Grand Bahama, and 
The Family Islands-The Abacos, Andros, Bimini, Eleuthera, and The Exumas. In The Bahamas, you never run out of things to do. Until you want to. 

CLASS OF '86 SENIOR TRIP 
Due to the Iorge turnout. depos1t deadlines hove been extended today Is the last day ! Deposits w1l! be collected 1n the 1st Source Travel offices (Decio. Bodin & Haggar). They accept MC. VISA Cosh. Checks 
ttsBetter1nThe 
servative research center said "Laws for the education of the hand­icapped have drained resources from the normal school population, probably weakened the quality of teaching and falsely labelled normal children." 
Gardner, and another Bennett aid, Lawrence A. Uzzell, both advocate ending most federal aid programs to education, said an April 17, New York Times article. 
Gardner has even called for the elimination ofthe Education Depart­ment. In the New York Times article, Bennett would not comment directly on this, but did did say, "I do not think government would be worse off without me or anybody else in this job." 
Bennett was chosen by a commit­tee of very prominant educators from, among other places, Harvard, The University of Texas, and The University of Tennessee. "He has been a strong proponent of tuition tax credits and educational vouc­hers," said Kmiec. 

communiCAilOf) 
6. THfATR£ 
Don,t be a Hoser! 


see"Strange Brew" 
at the Knights of Columbus 
Fri. & Sat. at 7:00,9:15,& 11:30 
Admission $1.00 
College of Science Student Council announces the 1985 Dean's Run 
Distance:  7km (twice around  
thelakea)  
Date:  Sunday, April28  
Time:  12:00noon  
Registration  
Fee:  $4.00  

• 
Tee-shirts for all registrants 

• 
Please register by Friday April 26 at 5pm in the Dean's Office, 229 NSH 






~i~~~_()__i_ll___t___________________F_ri-da-y,_Ap-ril-26-,1-98-5~-pa-ge-5 
Affirmative action deserves support of everyone 
It was 191 0. BasebalJ was on its way to be­coming a national pastime, and the automobile had just recently been introduced 
Michael Froning in the minority 
to the American public. Americans would 
prosper in the years to come. At least most of 
them would. 

It was also around this time, 1909 to be ex­
act, that two black people were lynched every 
five days. Blacks also could not vote, were 
legally segregated and were not even con­
sidered equal to whites under the law. 

BUl despite this progress, advancement is 
still needed in social and economic circles, 
not just for blacks, but for all minorities. One 
program which is helping to achieve greater 
equality for minorities is called affirmitive ac­
tion. 

Affirmitive action is a program designed to give qualified minorities the opportunity to pursue their dreams, whether they be in the 
·job market or in education. It is not designed, 
as many people may think, to prioritize less 
qualified minorities over higher qualified 
whites. The intentions ofaffirmitive action are 
simply to open doors to those who have had 
the doors closed upon them for so long. 
To understand the need for affirmitive ac­tion, it is necessary to understand that doors do need to be opened to qualified minorities. 'There is discrimination in this country, and the following statistics on blacks in America, even 20 years after civil rights, demonstrate this fact. 
·Out of 2,100 daily newspapers in this country, two-thirds do not have a single black person in the newsroom. 
-Ofthe 2,200 predominantly white colleges in the United States, only 12 have a black president. 
-Out of 9,500 commercial radio stations in this country, only 119 are owned by a black person. 
-Of the 9,000 television stations in the United States, only ten are black-owned. 
-Only two to three percent of all the profes­sional doctors and lawyers in this country are black. 
-Of the 50 governors and 50 lieutenant governors in the United States, none are black. -Only 5,000 of the elected officials in this country are black. That is one percent of the 
SOO,OOO elected officials in the United States ofAmerica. 
Despite the need to correct the obvious im­balance in the social and economic realms of our society, many people are still worried that affirmitive action keeps qualified people from getting jobs or educations because quotas must he filled. 
lbis simply is not the case. Affirmitive ac­tion only requires, by law, that higher qualified minorities be first priority over anyone who is less qualified than they. Quotas are simply an easy way to assure this .. Quotas require that a certain number of qualified minorities be admitted to a school or offered jobs. 
This is a simple, yet effective, way of preventing some of the discrimination in our society which results from underqualified whites being accepted to schools or being of­fered jobs simply by virtue of their color. 
Some argue that because ofquotas there are more incompetent professionals, such as doc­tors and lawyers, because unqualified minorities are allowed to practice in various fields, rather than qualified whites. 
In 1980, however, the American Medical Association announced th~re were two mil-
P.O. BoxQ 
Where was the support for player and family? 
Dear Editor: 
On Saturday, April 20th, I had the privilege of witnessing a joyous celebration of life amidst a dark cloud of death. At True Vine Baptist Church in Blue Island, Ill., Reverend Lewis presiding, the death of Melvin Eugene Flemons (brother of Notre Dame tail back Lester Flemons) was mourned and his life brought forth into the light oftruth. It is in this light that Melvin will reap the fruits of the seeds he had sown as the Father judges the worthiness of the fruits of his twenty-nine years of toil. 
In this life I have been many things -friend, foe, liar, thief, son, hypocrite, lover and more than I can recall. In light ofthis I would be the last to judge the acts ofanother human being. 
I will say that there were many football players who wanted to go to the funeral and pay their respects but none were allowed to due to a scrimmage game on Saturday mor­ning. Three injured players were allowed to attend the service but what about the friends of Lester who were not injured? 
I can only surmise Gerry Faust believed that the players needed the practice and who am I to say otherwise? But I do know that Lester Flemons needed his friends. 
Doonesbury 

Gerry Faust speaks of the players, coaches, and staff being like a family. Ifthis is true then they should support and love each other like a family. Where was the support? Where was the love? 
The Director of Minority Affairs, Edward Blackwell, also did not attend the funeral. However valid his reasons may or may not have been, the fact still remains that the Flemons family did not receive the personal support ofthe highest ranking black official at the University. The beautiful and well­meaning flowers and the plant sent to the family on behalfofvarious black organizations were well-appreciated by the Flemons family, but where was the love? 
There is love shown by sacrificing a scrimmage or a meeting to be present in times of sorrow and pain. I too am guilty of notal­ways showing my love and being there when needed. Preoccupied with our own affairs we tend to not notice the pain of others and the necessity ofbeing present. 
I am not questioning the sincerity or at­tempting to impune the integrity ofanyone as I am probably the most imperfect human that can be found. I am however simply reminding them that they, as we all, will one day stand in the light oftruth next to our actions ofthepast and be held accountable and judged accord­ingly. I pray that myself and all who stand in 
~Y, I<JIJS, 7HIS158/NKI& ANVFl./P·ttP's816SCENE 
JliSTIJERRETIESC/(J{1}S 
CIW.J~!JE6/NS. PLAY 
.. 7H£7!N5IOI. PlAY 
., JH&AJJT/OPA­./71011! 


the light may stand as proud and confident as Melvin Eugene Flemons. 
Christopher Williams President Black Cultural Arts Council 


Response to a death was not of a family 
Dear Editor: 
How many times have we heard "we are all a Notre Dame family"? Who belongs to the Notre Dame family and what does it mean? 
This past week a member of the football team lost a brother after a lingering illness. Many of his teammates expressed the desire to attend the services. However, a Saturday scrimmage took priority. (Three injured players and a graduate assistant were allowed to represent the team.) Where was a coach or someone from the athletic department? Where were the rectors from Howard Hall? 
Had the loss been a parent, would the same decision have been made? Was not the loss of a brother high enough on the list? Was it be­cause a black person was involved? Perhaps there was a fear ofgoing into a black neighbor­hood ofChicago or into a black church. 
A family gathers in grief, that is what a family is all about. 
MamaWray University Staff 
Garry Trudeau 


Hon surgeries performed by incompetent doctors in that year. Realizing that only three percent of the doctors in America are black, this means 97 percent ofthe incompetent sur­
geries  wert  performed _by  non-black  sur­ 
geons.  
Obviously  the  problem  is  one  of  

institutions admitting unqualified people, not just unqualified minorities. Certainly the ad­mittance of qualified minorities would not hurt the medical, or any other, profession. 
It is clear that despite the need for social and economic equality for minorities, it will not happen overnight. It did not happen in the first 20 years after civil rights and it will probably not happen within the next 20 years. 
But equality will not just happen by itself. The people and government of this country must make a concerted effort to overcome the difficult task of helping minorities achieve equality. And programs such as affirmitive ac­tion can lessen the amount of time it takes for minorities to achieve social and economic equality. 
Michael Froning is a freshman in tbe col­lege ofArts andLetters and is a regular View­point columnist. 

Kroeger does not grasp horror of the Holocaust 
DearEditor: 
I was very disturbed with some ofthe com­ments Dave Kroeger made about Reagan's proposed visit to a German cemetary contain­ingSS graves. The crudity ofsome expressions made me shiver. How dare you call six million dead Jews "a bunch of bones lying halfway across the world"? 
Have you ever tried to imagine what it would be like to get tattoed with a number and to see your family and friends gassed or mutilated by SS officers. 
Your comment "Holocausts are a dime a dozen" displays incredible mental shallow­ness. Holocausts are tragedies not to be for­gotten. The fact that they occur regularly should not mean that they are a fact of life. If people like you refuse to understand these events then our generation is doomed. 
There are better ways to recognize Ger­mans. Reagan could have visited Rommel's grave and others who tried to overthrow Hit­ler's regime. He could have honored the 
positive  contributions  of Germans  to  the  
world.  
Carl B. Bastien  
St. joseph'sHall  


Quote of the day 
"The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win. Workers of the world, unite! 
-KarlMarx 

---Ihe.-~~~~--­----­---='-AJM:C=~I~ ____  Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239·5::W3  
Edttor-m-Chtef  Sarah E Hamtlton  Busmess Manager.  Dav1d Stephen1tct"l  
The Observer tS the tndependent newpaper publiShed by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Satnt Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the poltctes of the admtntstrat1on of erther Institution. The news is reported as accurately and as obtectlvely as posstble_ Unsigned edttortals represent the optnion ot a mator"tty of the Edrtortal Board Commentar•es. letters and the lns1de Column  Managtng Ed1tor News Edttor News Ed1tor Satnl Mary's EKecuttve Ed1tor Sports Edttor. Accent Ed1tor  Amy Stephan Ketth Hamson Jr. Dan McCullough Theresa Guanno Jeff Blumb Mary Healy  Advertrsmg Manager Controller Systems Manager. Product1on Manager  Anne Culltgan Btll Htghducheo Mark B Johnson John A. Mennetl  
present t~ vtews of thetr authors. Column space tS available to all members of the  V1ewpotnt Ed1tor  Joe Murphy  
communtty and the free expressiOn of varytng optntons on campus. through letters. 15 encouraged  Photography Edt tor Copy Ch1et  Peter C Laches Frank Ltpo  Founded November 3, 1966  






Accent 
Friday, April 26, 1985 -page 6 
Could Catholics bring death to Catholicism? 

Rev. 
Robert 

Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
can imagine that final night whenIthe last Catholic priest ever heard ofon earth, said the last Mass that history remembers. 
He gathered a dozen Christians in a basement room, read them les­sons from the Gospel ofJohn, and then celebrated the Eucharist. After Communion and the Final Blessing, he blew out the candles on the table of the Lord -all that was left was the darkness. 
The world didn't come to an end, ofcourse. The myth of the Second Coming was one of the errors of Rome. History continued as a record ofchaos and suffering. But the great harlot out of Babylon, guilty ofendless fornications with whomever would supply her with power and money, was dead as a doornail. It was said that the old bitch could have survived for anot­her thousand years if she hadn't relied on such stupid procurers to serve as pope. 
Nostalgia for the old religion hung around like a ghost. Christians continued to celebrate Christmas because they loved the legends of the Divine Child's birth. At Easter, they promoted the rumors ofa crucified and resurrected God. The problem was, nobody except the diehards believed in the Christian folktales. 
The church was the repository of the documents attesting to the miracles in the life ofjesus. The Church had made a business of collecting the gospels and apostolic writings into the book called the 



MovieS 

: i Anthony Edwards and Robert Carradine, (I '.' stars of"Revenge ofthe Nerds." 

•Be sure to be on hand this weekend at the Engineering Auditorium to watch the Revenge ofthe Nerds. You won't want to miss this story of some lovable underdogs who rise to the peak ofpopularity after put­tingsomecampus hot shots in their places. 
Showings will be at 7,9 and 11 tonight and Saturday night and admission will be Sl.50. 
•In the Annenberg Auditorium tonight Camera Buff will be presented for S2.50. Mixed in this comedy are sharp satire of the cinema/ critical/bureaucratic es­tablishment and a fascinating self­reflective commentary on the nature of cinema itself.This is a story about a man whose home movies of his newborn daughter quickly burgeon into an artistic cinematic career. 
New Testament. The world haa only the Church's opinion that the New Testament was inspired. Once the Church bit the dust, faith in the New Testament as the Word ofGod became moot because the only evidence alleging its worth was its acceptance by the Church, so famous for deceiving itself. 
The Protestant churches carried on the feasts, but after the disap­pearance of the mother institution, the days of the denominations were numbered. For all ofthem, the power structure quartered in Rome turned out to be the Great China wall of their defense. Their identity always represented some modifica­tion ofthe Church's identity as they tried to be purer or less political than Rome. They just stopped being impressive. IfRome was a lie, the reasoning went, and the lesser breeds upstaging the hoary old mother couldn't be authentic eit­her. 
And so, like all great empires, the kingdom ruled over by the popes went to its grave. The reactionaries wept for the good old days. Some of them tried to invent a new power structure to take the Church's place. They couldn't think ofa founding myth that would capture the popular imagination, and they weren't any more successful in converting a new people than those foolish Moonies were. 
Every now and again, the rumors ofa new Incarnation circulated. However, the surviving Catholic patriarch, who claimed to be in touch with the Holy Spirit, just shook his head, saying: "He tried it once. Dollars to doughnuts, He won't try it again."' 

It's hard to pinpoint the year that Christianity died. The priest who said the final Mass in the basement room was killed by the Com­munists, betrayed by one ofthe Catholics who sat at the table as a latter-day Judas. The priest knew he was one ofthe last ofhis line; probably the very last, unless God was keeping a spare that He wasn't talking about. The priest gave the left-over Eucharist to one of the women to take care of, as long as the Sacrament endured under the form ofbread. He hoped for a new miracle of the multiplication of loaves by which Christ would keep His promise to stay around always. 
In the last homily, the priest said: "We have come to an end ofthe holy symbols. Jesus gave us this sign ofHis death and suffering. After His resurrection, He said, we would celebrate it as the Living Bread that comes down from heaven, the food on which the hungry sheep are nourished. From tonight on, God will withold the manna and the people will perish without food and drink in the wilderness. Ofall the mysteries relating to evil, this is the hardest to understand. Why, God, do you consider us so undeserving? The only answer He gives us is silence." 
It wasn't a great curtain speech, though the soul-searching sounds sincere. It seems like a damned shame that God couldn't have left us something ofChrist's message to hang onto. 
So far as we can judge, He took back all His grace, because the old Christian values seemed wiped out. The politicians still talked about love. But they forgot to say that greater love than this no man has, that he should lay down his life for his friend. The teachers paid lip service to truth; what they mostly had in mind was opinion polls. 
Vision, once the prerogative of prophets, became the stock in trade offortune tellers. The world was a tough place to live in when the Church was alive and kicking. It really turned mean once the State was in charge ofdefining sin and morality. The forgiveness ofone's enemies became as outdated as the idea, once widely held, that the earth is flat. 
In all the visible universe, in addition to the stars, the spring and other changes ofseason, only one miracle remained: Israel,Judaism­the Chosen People kept the name of God alive and honored. In spite of hell and high water, Abraham's family endured, as fixed in faith as the everlasting hills anchored to the foundations of the earth. They believed, as they will always believe, in the God Who keeps His promises. In this way, they enjoy an advantage over the rest of mankind. 
The survival ofIsrael looks like a greater miracle than the resurrec­tion ofthe Lord because their whole history is a continuous resur­rection of life coming out of the scenes ofdeath. Why does God grant them the miracle ofsurvival? 
God doesn't tell me what's on His mind. However, in visitingJewish homes, it has struck me that Yah­weh's heart must be moved by the way His first-born children stay faithful to their religious tradition. Even in times of trouble, the youngest children in the endan­gered ghettoes asked their elders the question which begins the Passover: "Why is this night dif­ferent from all other nights?" This loyalty, above everything, identifies the faithful Jews who keepJudaism alive as a holy religion. 
God never said that Christians couldn't keep their Church until the end of time. He didn't say that it wouldn't go so far underground that it would disappear from his­tory, either. I can only imagine the way Christianity might be remem­bered at its premature burial, if it lived through a century during which it was totally eclipsed. 
The New Israel described by St. Paul has a serious lesson to learn from the Israel that made covenants with God in the desert. One small lesson that seems obvious to me: I've never heard a rabbi on a talk show badmouthing the Chief Rabbi ofJerusalem. I've never read ar­ticles and letters (written in ig­norance) sent to the newspapers from students at Brandeis, cheapen­ing the tribal beliefs and dismissing them as of no value. 
AJewish tale tells of the rabbi who called the police to arrest an outlaw who asked him for sanctuary. Later, God rebuked the rabbi: "Ifyou had bothered to look at the face ofthe outlaw, you would have seen he was the Messiah." Catholics should be particular about the traditions they trade off: one or two of them may be part of the truth that makes them free. The enemies of truth could be laughing at the Catholic naivete that throws away a pearl. 
The New Testament warns us bluntly that we're in a war with the principalities and powers ofdark­ness. Sometimes, when I look over the battlefield, it seems the way that Pogo says: "I have seen the enemy, and they is us." 
Music 

•South Bend Symphony will present Grant Johannesen on the piano at the Mor­rie qvic Auditorium at 8 p.m. Saturday night. The orchestra will accompany Johannesen in a performance of Chopin's Piano Concerto No. 2 and will perform Barber's Second Essay and Brahm's Sym­phony no. 1 . Those interested in purchas­ing tickets should call 232-6343. 



Nazz 


John Tyler and Mike McCaughey will mellow out the Nazz tonight with guitar and song, beginning at 9. At 10:30 the action quickens with a heavy metal extravaganza by Wicked Sh--, who will play heavy metal favorites and rock classics. 
Saturday, Mark Luchini and his guitar will entertain, beginning at 9 p.m. 
Art 
•At 
the O'Shaughnessy Gallery East of the Snite Museum will be displayed a selec­tion of recent work by Don Vogl, a prolific artist and a member of Notre Dame's Department ofArt, Art History and Design. Represented this weekend will be a palatable palatable entree of large abstrac­tions, watercolor landscapes of the American West, West, and a small ceramic sculptures. 

•Carnival 
for the Arts at the Century Center is the place to be tonight and Saturday night. It's exciting ... it's unique ... it's the Best Party in Town' The carnival will create all the excite· ment of the Big Apple as it underscores the 198Ci themeof"NewYork, New York." Tickets for the annual Michiana Arts and Sciences Council fundraiser, from 6 p.m. to I a.m., are 56.50 in ad· vance at the Century Center Box Office, or S7.50 at the door. 




Misc. 
•An 
Tostal, that perennial favorite, continues to celebrate Spring this weekend. Today's events include the Dating Game, Keg Toss, toudmouth, Trivia Bowl, Recess l 0 l and a midnight movie. Tomorrow's events climax with the famous mud pits, plus the Road Rally, Obstacle course, water polo, and a grand finale dance on the Library Mall in the evening. And if you can keep a straight face at 6 p.m. in Washington Hall, you will win 525 in the "We Can Make You Laugh" comedy show. Don't miss Sunday's exciting conclusion to the Bookstore Basketball tournament, or the ultimate frisbee games. 

For details, see the An Tostal booklet. 

•Don't 
forget, tomorrow is your last chance to turn in answers to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's trivia contest and win S20! Leave answers, with your name and address, at the Observer office. 



Mass 
lbe celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father Robert Kennedy at 5:1 '5 p.m. 
(Saturday night vigil). Father Francis Cafarelli at 9 a.m. Father David Tp.on at 10:~0 a.m. Father Mark Poorman at 12: I 5 p.m. 
~~--------~ 
The Observer 
Friday, April 26, 1985 -page 7 
THE 



GIPPER'S GHOST© 
CAST OF CHARACTERS 

THE COACH: Joe Kelly was everything the nation's sportswriters had come to expect in a Notre Dame head football coach. He was Irish. He was Catholic. He was a loser. 
THE LEGEND: Knute Rockne, Notre Dame's head foot· ball coach during the golden age of sport. No coach, past or present, pro or college, had ever matched his winning percentage. 
THE LORD: Notre Dame's "Number One Fan," God Almighty. Only His divine intervention might restore the lustre to the University of Notre Dame's golden football tradition. 
THE QUARTERBACK: Hart Collins, a former all·state high school quarterback, faces his greatest challenge as a sophomore signal~aller for the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. 
THE LADY SPORTS EDITOR: Nicki Summers is the beautiful female sports editor of THE OBSERVER, Notre Dame's school newspaper. Her discovery might cost Notre Dame a national championship. 
and 

THE GIPPER: Rockne's first All American at Notre Dame, George Gipp suffered an untimely death yet still won immortality. He assumes the secret identity of Dutch Reagan when God returns him to Notre Dame to lead a quest for the national championship. 
THE GIPPER'S GHOST© 1985 by Robert A. Quakenbush 
Introducing 
THE 
' 
© 




by Robert Quakenbush 
Joe Kelly was everything the nation's sportswriters had come to expect in Notre Dame's head football coach. Irish. Catholic. And a loser. 
Two years. No wins. Twenty~two losses. Thank God he had three years left on his contract. So, when the Fighting Irish lose their season opener 
to the Michigan Wolverines by the humiliating score of 45 to 7, Notre Dame's "Number One Fan" -God Almighty -decides it's time for divine intervention. 
God assigns the souls of Knute Rockne and George Gipp -the greatest coach and the greatest player in the school's history -the awesome task of resurrecting a winning tradition at Notre Dame. 
Assuming the name Dutch Reagan, The Gipper joins the Irish football team. He enlists the help of sophomore quarterback Hart Collins in a quest to restore the lustre to Notre Dame's golden tradition by winning the national championship. 
The result is an exciting, inspiring and, at times, hilarious story of the spirit of Notre Dame. 
Yes! Please send copy(ies) of the original manuscript 
of THE GIPPER'S GHOST by Robert Quakenbush. I have 
endu~ $10 (plus $1 for postage & handling) for each copy. 
Name 
Address 
City __________State ___Zip ____ 
Mail this coupon with your check or money order to O'CONNOR PUBLISHING, Box 10344, Chicago, IL 60610. Allow four to six weeks for delivery. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------... 
J 

. t .• 
, ' 



Sports Briefs 
Notre Dame wrestling coach Fran McCann 
has announced the signing of the top five high school wrestlers in the country to wrestle at Notre Dame next year. The wrestlers are David Carlin ( 126 pounds),Jerry Durso ( 134 pounds), Patrick Boyd ( 142 pounds), Gregory Goad (I SO pounds) and Christopher Geneser ( 167 pounds). -The Obseroer 
An Tostal is here,in case you didn't notice. For details on the many events beginning today, check the An Tostal booklet or the special section in today's Observer.-The Obseroer 
The ND/SMC Gymnastics Club banquet has been rescheduled for tonight at 6 p.m. All past and current mem­bers are invited. For location, call Tim Sennet at 283-3308. -The Obseroer 
The Senior 5K Runwill be held Monday at 3:30p.m. at Stepan Center. Runners should meet at 3 p.m. For more informa­tion, call Vince Thomas at 283-1769 orJane Dowd at 283-1349.-The Obseroer 
Ascramble golftournamentwill be hosted by 
NVA on Saturday, May 4. Students, faculty and staff may register by paying a S3 greens fee at the NVA office by Tuesday. Prizes will be awarded. For more information, call NVA at 239-6100. -The Obser­ver 
Friday, April 26, 1985 -page 8 
McMonigle joins SMC track team, throws javelin and runs short races 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE in the javelin throw to several fac­"Megan's given us a lot ofstrength Sports Writer tors. in the javelin that we didn't have," "I jog occasionally, and I swim to Kerich says. "She's shown self­
Setting a new school mark in the strengthen my back and arm discipline; and she's had a strong javelin event has been the highlight muscles," she says. "I also work a lot desire to succeed. Because of that of Megan McMonigle's first year as a on sprinting, which is really impor­she's added a lot to our team." member of the Saint Mary's track tant before the javelin release." team. Saint Mary's track coach Jean McMonigle, who will study in 
McMonigle, a sophomore from Rome next year, says she hopes to Savannah. Ga., who is double­qualify for the National Track and majoring in English writing and fine Field Competition when she returns arts, had never participated on a to Saint Mary's her senior year. track team until this year. She joined ''I'm going to try to get some train­the team primarily for the javelin ing from a college coach who spe­events but soon started to compete cializes in field events while I'm in in short distance and relay events. Rome. Hopefully I will be able to add 
"I thought javelin would be fun, so a few feet to my throws." I gave it a try," she explains. "There Kerich says she believes was a lack of people for the other McMonigle has a good chance to events, so I began running races, too. qualify for the National Competition 
"My biggest accomplishment this in her senior year. season was in the javelin. I progressed from an initial throw of The Belles will travel to Rich­78 feet to a throw of 1 1 5 feet, seven mond, Ind., tomorrow to compete in inches. I was really surprised and Kerich says she believes McMonigle the Little State Meet, held at Earlham excited when I set a new record," has a lot of natural ability in the Co!lege. The meet, which will mark she adds. javelin throw and contributes a the end of the season for the Belles, 
McMonigle attributes her success great deal to the team. is scheduled to begin at 9: 1 5 a.m. 



The Obser:·er '\c tre Dame office. locatnl on thl' third floor of l.al'ortunt· Studl"nt <:t:ntn. an.t·pts dassilkd adn·rtisinj.( from 9 a.m. until ·4 p. m . Monda~ through Frida\. The Ohserr•er Saint :'1-tary·s offin·. hKatt·d on the third tloor of llaggar Collt:lo(l' Centt·r. at·n·pts dassifil'lh from 12::~0 p.m. until ~p.m .. :0.1on· day though Frida\· lkadlint: for nt·xt·day da..silkds is .'\ p.m. All da..silkds must he prt:paid. t·itht·r in pl"rson or hv mail.< :lurgt· is I 0 c·l"ms pt-r fin·t·har:ll"·



Classifieds 
tt-rs er day. 

SKI GLASSES LOST .... in lawn area bet­HELP! I NEED GRAD TIX! CALL PETE YOU MAY NOT FEEL LIKE DOING IT, There once was a guy named Marchand KMMn 3-North PIGS Welcome AN ween LEMANS HALL and SMC 1856 BUT YOU'LL BE GLAD YOU DID!I Who thOI.ight he was the best in the land TOST AL '85 with open hooves ­
NOTICES PARKING LOT. Please return 'cause AN TOSTAL'S HANGOVER 5K But the girls all got wise When they found See you at the Mud Pits. these glasses were not my property !!!! Need studious. male roommate for next SATURDAY, APRIL 27 out his lies And now all he has is his hand The MIRRORED SKI GLASSES brand year at Hickory Village Apls. Call Mark at STARTSAT9;30 WHAT? name resembles CELAIS --but I'm not 272-6298 SHOW UP TO REGISTER $1
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8t97 KISSERERS! Check In: Friday, 4/26

positive .... These SKI GLASSES can be OUTSIDE STEPAN CENTER 
6:30pm. LaFortune KISSERERS! Check WORDPROCESSING-2n-6045. 
easily identified as BLUE with a ~tile RED RIDE NEEDED TO THE PITISBURGH HEY. MUSIC LOVERS' 
in: Friday. 4/26 6:30pm. LaFortune BE
and WHITE trim. and twisted wire replac­AREA ON MAY 2 or 3. CALL JIM AT I've got sort of a problem here. The 
THERE!!!! 

TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 ing the small screws next to each eye !!! 1930 SATURDAY, APRILL 27 IN FRONT OF Minutemen are coming to Chicago on PLEASE CALL 283-3437 or RETURN FARLEY May 3. and I already have tix. Problem is. I NEWG NEWG VOTE 
Wordproc...ing and Typing THE GLASSES to the LEMANS HALL NO REGISTRATION need a ride. Can you help? Grandma says is needs NEWG Need Tickatl For Gr8Ciuatlon
272-8827 DESK (or) Notre Dame LOST and 10;30 AM--BE THERE!!!! there's help for people like me. so call Reg 
P..... C.ll Mit at 283-3716 ugly your UMOC 
FOUND in the Administration Building. at 2651 if you thtnk she's right. 
VOTE

Please respond before this weekend !!'! FOREt!! 
Word Processing and Typing. Resumes. Thank you. ITS TIME FOR FRISBEE GOLF HARTZELL THE HORRIBLE !' Yoo-gee­
ONE-BDRM. SUMMER SUBLET 
Letters. Papers, Documents CaH 234-4:30 HOLY CROSS HALL(ND) el-wye He ain't got no alibi He's UGLY!
NEEDED. CALL 313-764-8979 AFTER 6 GURDAK says. "NEWG cs the ugliest
2380 LOST. NAVY BLUE MEN'S SWIMMING FRIDAY APRIL 26 TOM HARTZELL FOR UMOC' 
P.M. thing I've ever seen, and I look at myself in WINDBREAKER LEFT ON COAT RACK BRING YOUR OWN FRISBEE(OR ANY the mirror every day!!!!!!!!" VOTE NEWG 
TYPING-CALL ANDREA-283-3880 IN SOUTH DINING HALL ON 4/18. IF REASONABLE FACSIMILE) Votes for U.M.O.C. are beong collected in UMOCFOUND PLEASE CALL ROLAND AT the dining halls during dinner through Sat. 2165. Eeyore, The Ugliest Man On Campus will be 
revealed on Saturday at 12:00 pm at the

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL Good luck on MCAT's. NEWG transferred from Vanderbtlt so he
FOR SALE 
Irish Wake! 

MAS. COKER, 233-7009. POO could be ugly lor you. He's a professional
LOST: If you mtstakenly (or intentionally) ugly man!!! Vote NEWG UMOC!!! 
picked up my Managerial Accounting Staying in the Bend for the summer: need 
GOVERNMENT HOME from $1 (U Be smart' Sell your class books before the YOCIUS is Atrocious. 
book from South at Tuesday lunch, small place for the summer. Call Tom
repair). Alao delinquent tax property. rush. Mon.-Fri between 12 and 4. Save$
PLEASE RETURN ... before my big brot­x1479.
C811805-687-8000 Ext. GH-1834 for I~ on paperbacks. Fri: 3-6; 50/ off used: 20/ HELP!! IT'S TIME FOR A CHANGE. .. 
her Bubba comes to call on you. Thanks! 
new. Let's get a real ugly man by voting 
formetlon. off PANDORA'S BOOKS. 937 So NEED 1 OR 2 TIX, TOGETHER OR
S:Jsanx4286 Going to Europe or New Zealand this 
NEWG FOR UMOC!!!! 

Bend Ave. 233-2342 SEPARATE. 
summer and not taking your car? I need to 

Be Smart!! Sell your texts and paperbacks PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR
LOST;GOLD BRACELET WITH GOLD have wheels for my job this summer. so
for$$ before the rush!! M-F,BIT 12-4 pm. 6-UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE. No­1216; KEEP TRYING!! 
TEDDY BEAR CHARM.SENTIMENTAL I'm willing to rent yours and take care of it 
We also carry a wide assortment of Cliff MEMORIAL AREA. EXCELLENT CON­AHHHHHHHHHHHHH!! 
VALUE. PLEASE CAU 232-4552 OR until August. Call Tom x1479. 
and Monarch Notes. Pandoras DITION 233-9728 232-4528 IT'S UGLY! 
2n-67421F FOUND.
Books,937 So.Bend Ave.,1 block from IT"S A POSTUREPEDIC EXPERIMENT' 
HELP!! I AM IN DIRE NEED OF ONE IRISH GARDENS 
Corby's. 82 Honda Civic, Air, Cass Stereo, Great MORE GRADUATION TICKET!!! IT COULD BE UMOC WITH YOUR 
LOST GOLD CHAIN,CRUCIFIXAND GET YOUR FLOWERS EARLY' 
VOTE I!! 

MPG. 2n-5725 PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T
CIRCULAR JESUS MEDAL INSCRIBED. WE ARE CLOSING EARLY ON ANTOS­
IT"SNEWG!!!

COME THROUGH WITH THIS DEAL!!
CALL 2n-6742 OR 232-45521F FOUND. TAL FRIDAY. APRIL 26 
FOR SALE: couch and rug, a decorators PLEASE HELP OUT A POOR FELLOW
TRANSFER ORIENTATION 1965 MA~I­WE WILL BE OPEN FROM 12:30-3:00
delight! Must see to appreciate . t".all Tom SENIOR, AND CALL JEFF AT 3859. 
DITORY MEETING FOR AU THOSE IN­REOPENING MONDAY. APRIL 29. 
or Mike at 1000. NEWG had offers of ugly man from UNI­
TERESTED IN BEING ON THE Lost:bkle NO bookbag,Physics and Mec­12:30-5:30 
VERSITIES across the nation. but COMMITIEE: 7:00 NEW ORLEANS 
hanics book, 4 notebooks and 4 foklerl, SHOATS AND SHADES SHORTS AND IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
MOVING SALE Delk & Chair, Qold Car· thought the Luck of the lrtah could only
ROOM LAFORTUNE. TUESDAY APRIL and c:alc:ulator. If found please caH 1804 SHADES SHOATS AND SHADES 
pet Remnant, lafve TV Stand, 011 enhance his professional UGLINESS!!
SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND 
30. PRESENT MEMBERS MUST AT­

Palntlnp w/Frames, Dlah•. c.ll U. Let's show him we care.
$20 REWARD FOR THE RECOVERY SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES WANT A JOB AT IRISH GARDENS? IF
TEND. 

5471 O.ys, 23ot·M24 Evenlnp &-10 VOTE NEWG UMOC 
OF A GYM lAG FILLED WITH SHORTS AND SHADES H-dHall'l YOU ARE ELIGIBLE FOR WISCONSIN CLUB MEMBERS If anyone VIDEOTAPES. PLEASE CALL DAN AT Shorta and Shadea Party FINANCIAL AID AND ALWAYS READY 
FOR SALE: 1G-Speed bicycle, Schwinn 
is intereeted in becoming an officer lor 1733, DROP OFF AT 243 DILLON, OR TOIIIOITOW 8 p.m. FOR A GOOD TIME, THEN STOP AT 
Varsity. Call Steve 3830. JEFF HEAMA~Hope you ramaiiiMr 
next year, please contact Brian Thelen at AT THE O'IHAG LOFT. Get tickets today! IRISH 
meeting me lhla time. Don't you ww 2097 before midnight Sunday, Apr 28. At Howerd Hall at dinner time GARDENS IN THE BASEMENT OF
FOR SALE: NYLON JOGGING SWEAT­wonctw who I am? lOYe. Your Ser:ret thia time. the new officers win be elected. 
LOST: ONE EDDIE BAUER JAC-SAC, SHOATS AND SHADES SHOATS AND LAFORTUNE 
Admirer.

PANTS AND TOPS. IN BLUE AND RED. 
BURGUNDY COLOR. LOST ON 4/24 AT SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES AND PICK UP AN APPLICATION TO 
CALL MIKE • ] 232-0904 AFTER 6:00PM. 
EITHER WASHINGTON HALL OR 116 SHOATS AND SHADES WORK NEXT YEAR 
$20 EA. OR $35 SET.
O'SHAG. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
AASTA WEEK BEGINS AROUND THE WORLD IN A DAY
CLIFFORD AT 1436. THANK YOU! SUMMER HOUSING NEEDED Two guys Friday Nile at 
FOR SALE 1976 CHEVY WAGON BEST The N-Album by 
who like South Bend so much thatthey've Howard Han presents 
LEE'S IIWI-0 OFFER CALL K!M AT 4205 PRINCE AND THE REVOLUTION 
LOST, AN ARMY STYLE JACKET, OF decided they're staying are looking for an The Annual 
Proceeds go to Ethiopia Is now available for only $7.751 
VERY SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF inexpenaive house or apartment for this Shorta and Shadel 
ONLY AT ROCK DuLAC 

FOUND. PLEASE PleASE. PLEASE summer. If you have one oiif you've evfltl Party First floor LaFortune
CALL CATH AT 284·4173. THANKS. heard ofsuch an anima/, please call Dan American Legion Post 303 
at 1625. 2410 Mishawaka Avenue Saturday, 8pm 
TICKETS 
WELCOME TO SMC PAUL AND JOHN'
TDKS.U0'1 1 Bus service from main circle HAPPY 21ST HE-MAN. CAN I PIERCE
LOST/FOUND I 

HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX. Only 5 for S10 Buy tickets at dinner lime YOUR EARS NOW THAT YOU'RE
FOR RENT 

TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE ALL THIS WEEK today in Howard LEGAL? HOW ABOUT YOUR BROWS? 
······················ ........................................ 

CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP ONLY AT ROCK DULAC. 
PLUCK THEM I MEAN WEU. MAYBELOST: General Bio text was remOYed TRYING!! 
FIRST FLOOR LA FORTUNE FOR MY 21ST DURAN DURAN CALLED from the far right side of main carrels on 
FORRENT5/16-8/?,HOMEOFOWNER LIMIT 10 An Tostal We Can Make You Laugh 
TO WISH THEIR BIGGEST FAN THE
the 10th floor of the Ubrary Wed. evening. 

LEAVING 4 SUMMER.28DRMS FUUY GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED' Five Comedy Show Saturday. April 27Therelum of thia book is extremely impor­BEST LOVE, THE ONE YOU ADMIRE
EOPT ie.microwave IN FACULTY d them. For real money. Celt 288-0330. time:7:00p.m. Engineering Auditorium tant liS I have a test next wt>ek' Call 3615 THE MOST IN LIFE! 
NEIBHD 802 NAPOLEON AVE EASILY Please. OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS can pick up $2.00 per ticketASAP if found' 
WALKING DIST. PERFECT 4 SUMMER An T ostal Booklets aN this week between THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR BLESs­
STAFF NON­DESPERATELY NEED GRAD TICKETS 3 and 5 p.m. in the An T08tal Office. We Gan Make You Laugh Show Satur­
INGS RECEIVED Lost: Blue jean jacket at a off-campus STUDENTS,RESPONSIBLE TENANTS-PLEASE CALL JJ 1703 located within the student offices on the day. 7:00pm Eng Aud. 

party on 3/29. Please call Jean at 284­

234·2275 pat second floor of LaFortune. 
5024. JIM CREELY Good Luck on MCATs;
JOHN TYLER and MIKE McCAUGHEY at LOYe ya. U.A.M.H. 
....................... ··············· ...................... . 

HELP! NEED 2 GRAD TIX1$ GaM Nancy HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CAU THE the NAZZ Friday, Apnl26 9 pm · FOUND: One women·s high IChool dass 
at 234-7319 YEUOW SUB 272-4453 MO-TH 8-11pm ring with tnttials MCH inaide. Found in 
FR-SA 8pm-1am DAY375 Congratulations y all' Kathy, Annie. Ju~e.
WANTED
McCandless Hall SMC. Gall Ju~e 284­

Need 3 Grad tix Will pay $ 1346 One year ago tomorrow. 2500 Comers Jeanie, Dena. Michelle. Suzanne. Billy.
5458. 

ARTISTS said, "ENOUGH'" Ron. Rich, Paul. Carl. Tom. Bill. Jeff. I ...................... NEED 1 GRAD TICKET. CAU 1847 PAYING JOB! thought y'all would ~ke some favorable 
I NEED GRAD. Til! .1 Farley Hall deStres pen and tnk. Gall NEVER FORGET newsprint lor a change' Are you havtng LOST:BlUE NIKE NYLON RUNNING Please can Ltsa at 3544. Amy 4068 lor detatls. fun yel? Well. everyone else can just thtnk PANTS AT LYONS B-BALL COURTS ON 
about tt' It's time lor-

SUN. APRIL 14. 1985 CALL JOHN 1134. METAL MEN UNITE1""WICKED SH-T at BAHAMAS BAHAMAS BAHAMAS Due to M-ORE. More HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX, PERSONALS the Nazz,Fri.4/26, 10:30PM Playing your the OVERWHELMING response to the -practtce TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE HEAVY METAL favorites. ROCK ON' Santor Trip, we have extended tne -games
LOST 

CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP DEPOSIT ($1 50) deadline so that the rest -jOkes ONE NO DEEP BLUE JACKET IN TAYING!t OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, RETAIL FURNITURE SALES Part time. of the CLASS OF 86 can be a pan of this -fun NORTH DINING HALL. PLEASE CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., flextble hours. lmmed opencngs. call trip.Collecttons will be taken until Keep yourselves happy campers. Cuz -I RETURN TO 715 FLANNER NO ?'S Part bme job' Need help laytng sod. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Chris Pedevtlla 259-0007 1G-BPM The FRI,4/26 6-8pm tn LaFortune and Hag­care' 
ASKED. 

$4.00./h call 277-7660 Furniture Gallery. Mtsha. gar(SMC). -Dance Bear 



The Observer Friday, April 26, 1985 -page 9 
After two years 
Golfer Fuhrer now can contribute 


mbtleni!lltm of tltt C!ra~t 
-(i-,.... :\-Men's Hair Styling at its finest -"·-...<~ ~ (minutes from campus) 

HAIRCUT 
54553 Terrance Ln, S.R. 23 (across from Martin's) 

272-8471 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
IfNotre Dame golfer Steve Fuhrer were a boxer, he would be the Roc~ Balboa ofthe fight world. 
After having been cut in both his freshman and sophomore years, he still continued to fight and finally made the team in this, his junior year. 
Fuhrer talked to head coach Noel O'Sullivan before fall tryouts and asked him what he had to do to survive the cut. O'Sullivan told him what was needed and, according to the head coach, Fuhrer went out and did it. 
"As a freshman, he didn't make the team because he wasn't organized, both athletically and academically," O'Sullivan explains. "Last year, he lacked the patience and sticktuitive­ness necessary for good golf. But this year he had the organization and perseverance to finish first out of65 Irish golfers in the Notre Dame Open, which won him a spot on the squad," 
Fuhrer certainly has not wasted any time making up for the time lost during his first two years of college. Last fall, he was one of two Irish gol­fers to be named to the Mid-American City Conference team. On the Notre Dame team's spring trip to Florida, he played very well despite a shoulder injury. The junior from Oakmont, Penn., also is having a strong spring season, and O'Sullivan could not be more delighted. 


"It's been a very enjoyable ex­perience to see Steve come so far," his coach says. "He's performing ex­cellently and he's just a joy to watch," 
The Irish will need Fuhrer to play well if they are to have a good weekend. The golf team travels to Columbus, Ohio, where it will par· ticipate in the four-day Kepler In­vitational. Twenty-four teams from the Big Ten. the Mid American Con­
ference and major independents from district four all will be vyingfor the top spot. 
Notre Dame has had a pretty good record in tournaments this spring and seems to be confident it they can continue its improvement. It is a very young, enthusiastic team, and, according to O'Sullivan, it is ready for this weekend. 
"We are looking to do well," he says. "We have been playing well recently and I think we will be competive in Columbus. The players are anxious to show their stuffamong all these major powers." 
Steve Fuhrer certainly will be hoping to show his best stuff. 


W omens Bookstore Pairings 

Today  Tomorrow  
Bookstore I  Bookstore I end 10  
4:00-So You Think We Came to Play B-ball v.  4:00-Semrfinals  
Nolo Contendere  
Bookstore 10  
4:00-GOing All The Way v. Does On Their Own Lyons 11  Sunday 
4:00-RTHBKAv. The DUI's  
Lyone12  St.JN!n1  
4:00 ·Quixotic Quint v. Foul Trouble  1:00-Finals  

-.. 

YEARBOOK DISTRIBUTION: 
April 30 -May 3 12:30-4:30 East Side ofStepan Center 

•Tuesday, Apri130 Seniors 
•Wednesday, May 1 Juniors 
~ 

) • Thursday, May 2 Sophomores 
• Friday, May 3 Freshman 
*Please bring your J.D. card 





Pizza Hut~Delivers 
-------------------------------------------~ 
I.ARGE PIZZA, MEDIUM PRICE! 
Please ment1on coupon when ordeflng. One coupon per party per del1very 

I
at part1c1patmg P1zza Hut SpeCial Del1very .. umts. Not val1d for dme-in or 
carry-out. or m combtnatlon w1th any other P1zza Hut offer L1m1ted Delivery 
Area Offer good only on regular menu pflces through f\}:_ w 1..; 198~· 
Our drt~ers Cd''J. n(l mpre ~~':ctr~ 5.."(· ,·asr-Cnsr~ ;dlue 1 20C 
198'o P·:hl HLil fllC 
Free Delivery! Call: 232-2499 
HOURS: 4:00 p.m.-2:00a.m., Fri.-Sat. 
Pizza Hut is Rollin'Now!.. 
4:00 p.m.-12M, Sun.-Thurs. 
L---------------------------~---------------­


SPRING GRADS 
Medical Research Opportunities 

Start your research career with Northwestern University's Medical School. Our Chicago Campus is located on Lade Michigan, 2 blocks from Chicago's Magnificent Mile. 
We have research opportunities available In: 
•urology 
•Microbiology 

•
Medlclne-ECG • Anesthesiology 

•
Physiology •Endocrinology 

•
tnternal Medicine •Mlcro-lmunology 


We .seek IK'!chelors and Masters degrees In the biological sc·~nces with emphasis on Independent lab research. •'e require proven academic achievement and neslre to become part of our prestigious and dedicated research staff. 
Northwestern University offers a competitive starting salary and comprehensive benefits package Including dental insurance and 3 weeks paid vacation your first year. For Immediate consideration, please send resume and Grade transcript to: 

Daniel J. SchuHz Personnel Representative 
~~~'ft~~TERN 
Chicago Campus 339 E. Chicago Avenue Room 616 


Chicago, IL60611 lvl Equal OpportuniTy Employer MIF 


The Observer Friday, April 26, 1985 -page 10 

ND freshman Chenail contributes skill to baseball team's pitching BASEBALL TRIVIA 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
"Me... ? You want to do a feature on me? Are you serious?" 
That was the first reaction from freshman pitching sensation Kevin Chenail (pronounced Sha-ni) when he heard he was going to be the topic of an article. Modesty is just one ofChenail's strongpoints offthe diamond, while confidence is what he exudes on the mound. 
A native of North Adams, Mass., Chenail was a four-year letterman in basketball as well as baseball for Drury High School. As a junior and as a senior he captained both squads and was named to all-conference and all-Western Massachusetts teams. 
Following this productive high school career, Chenail received the ultimate honor by being drafted out ofDrury by the Clevland Indians. 
"I had no idea whatsoever that I was going to get drafted," recalls Chenail. "In fact, the times that the scouts came to watch seemed to be the times I did my worst. Actually, I was drafted in a low round." 
Regardless of what round it came in, invitations don't go to just anyone, and Chenail represents one of the best in his field. He made the decision not to go with Clevland, and says it was not a difficult deci­sion in the least. 
"A career in the majors is a great opportunity, but there was more to consider after high school. It (major league ball) doesn't provide a stable future at all, and I wanted to have something to fall back on, something solid." 
Just as easy for Chenail was the decision to attend Notre Dame. Recruited by many colleges, Chenail had grown up hearing the stories about the Irish tradition. Although Notre Dame did not recruit him as heavily as other schools, Chenail went after Notre Dame, using any connection he could think of. 
"I had my high school coach con­tact Coach (Larry) Gallo and then sweated over hearing as to whether I'd be admitted. I knew I could have gone elsewhere, but I had a good feeling about this place. I was willing to come sight unseen if they would have me." 
So the 6-4, 195-pound rookie packed his bags for South Bend. In his first start with the Irish, Chenail produced a three-hitter in a 7-1 vic­tory over Wisconsin_ 
"I get nervous before any game, but it is a good kind of nervous," he says. "Once the game starts, the anxiety goes away. It is just the feeling right before that first batter steps into the box. Luckily for me,

... the first batter I faced in college 

Lacrosse 
continued/rom page 12 
"struggle" is exactly what Witten­berg has done in its first two outings against the Irish, as Notre Dame has outscored the Tigers, 42-4. 
The Wittenberg game does represent something meaningful, though, as it is the seniors' final home game at Notre Dame. Ten members of the Class of 1985 will play on Cartier for the last time, in­cluding four-year goalie Rob Simpson, all-time leading scorer Bob Trocchi, and top defenseman Justin Shay. 


Baseball 
continued/rom page 12 
ference games this weekend with Butler. They will travel to In­dianapolis tomorrow and return home for a twinbill on Sunday atJake Kline Field. The Irish, 5-3 in the Mid­western City Conference, need some key victories to propel them to a playoff berth. 
wasn't one ofthe best, so that helped to keep my enthusiasim going." 
Through seven games (24.2 in­nings), Chenail has allowed 21 hits, ten runs -of which six were earned ­and seven walks, while recording 20 strikeouts. Chenail's record stands at 2-0 with one save and his 2.19 earned run average is good enough to place him second among pitchers in the Midwestern City Conference. Stats like these appear to show a smooth transition from high school, but Chenail does notice a few dif­ferences in collegiate life. 
"It is a big adjustment as far as academics is concerned," he admits. "The workload is doubled easily. As far as baseball is concerned, its a very different experience. In high school, the pitcher had to think a lot on the mound. Here, the catcher makes most of the calls, and our catchers call a great game." 
Although he hasn't even been here a full year, Chenail is the first to say how much he has learned and how much farther he has to go on the road to improvement. 

"Just by being a part of this team I have learned so much. You can't help but learn from the talented up· perclassmen on the squad. Statistics don't really tell the story. The seniors are the guys that hold this team together and I am very lucky to be with them." 
As his freshmen year comes to a close, Chenail still is excited about being a member of the Notre Dame community, and would file only one slight dissappointment. 
"This team is great and I wouldn't want to play anywhere else. I am very fortunate that my parents were willing to work so hard to get me here and I respect them tremen­dously. And Chuck Freeby really adds professionalism to the games. I only wish we could get more fans to come out and hear his great intro­ductions." 
Irish fans would be well-advised to take the advice and flock to Jake Kline for an afternoon of baseball. With quality players such as Kevin Chenail on the field, there won't be many dissappointments. 


Eras•as Books 
1027 E. Wayne Tues • Sun, noon -6 I block south of Jefferson & Eddy 
V••d &: oat of print boob bolaglat. •old, ••arched 
Do you like to be on top of things? Do you always want to know what's happening on campus? Ifso, get a job with the 
Publicity CoiDDiission ofthe Student Activities Board 
Positions as poster hanger are open for next semester. Please call Meegan at 239-7757 
:.;_.~ ·:.. 



ATIENTION: 
all marketing-type people ... 
apply now for the position of 
Marketing Manager for SAB Businesses 
Applications available in the SAB office, 2nd floor LaFortune. Deadline is 1:00 p.m., Mon. April29. Interviews begin Apr. 29 at 2 p.m. 
Answers to yesterday's questions 
1) Bobby Thomson 
2) Vic Rashi 
3)Jack Billingham 
4) AI Downing 
5) Don Drysdale 
Watch for next week's quiz in Thursday's paper. 
The Student Activities Board "The Leader in Entertainment" 
presents 
SHADOW FAX The Cutting Edge ofJazz 

Tuesday, Apri130 7 pm at Washington Hall 
Tickets on sale at the Student Activities Board Record Store and at the door.
/ 
All tickets $8.50 



···················~ 

~  Attention Juniors  ~  
~  Pre-Law Society  - 
~  Spring General Meeting  ~  
~  Mandatory informational  ~  

-tmeeting for juniors planning tote ~ attend law school ~ ~ April 29th, 7:30pm ­
-Library Auditorium ­·-Soghomores and Freshm~r))yeJc9ro~ ~ 
...........................~ 
~-----~----------------~------------------------------------, 

I I I I I I I
·L 

...-.......__QMIIOC, ~--·• $ $ave $ $ aAlQI88~~~-----.. 
S25.00 IO S150.00 Off•ave dolla 
R SEE THIS MAP On any Rent-it-Here, Leave-it-There 
FOR YOUR SAYINGS 
RENT FROM SOUTH BEND TO ANY
RYDIER 


Ryder O~e Way Truck Rental 
OF THESE AREAS AND SAVE. 

Offer valid only with this coupon. Not valid with other specials. 




RYDER 
SOUTH BEND rents trucks to move it yourself LOCATIONS 
1914 Miami St. 
289-6721 

OR 2627 South Main St. 
232-6729 

TriU.rtl of Nor1hem lncii•NI 21t-2t4-723t 1002-t-5710 

--------------------------------------~--------------------~ 

• • I • '\ J •
• , . .· I -. --. . . \ 
I 



~~~C3L~----------------------------------~------F-r-id_a.y,_A_p_r_il_2_6_,1_9_8_5_­
__P_a_ge---11 

Bloom County 
11 Pt.fiC& WH£/e~ TJ£Y 
jJ f?l.IJC£ WITH NO 

POf./7 c~ ume CIIN fOI?€VeK KOfi/P IIN/7 
l/NH!lPPffo£SS / M? WIONS /

Ol(f'H!lN /MNI/N/1 Jf< .... FlAY WITH 71161?. OT!f~f{ 
NO 11-IX£5 / NO 0850!..£5­

YOt/1?. COF?.PtJRiff£ fflf?tflr5 P6AP FKf~NP5... COtECO... 
C£NC& ./ €Xf71/N/71N& ft1AKK€TS 
HA~ GONe fJf TO 1lM€X.• M/11'm... 05/!()f(N€... 
IW/1 NeV~f<, N~ IWY

t1... A eerr&R PtJJa... V!CflJP.... ff?f/NKt.fN.. UC.. UC.. 
tvl?tt6N COMf'6nnON /".

erc.. m ... uc... 
fAR€wat / All KeVO!R!
\ 
) 

Zeto 



The Daily Cros~ord 
ACROSS 1 Infant 5 Helper: abbr. 9 Riverboat 
13 Astringent 14 Noonday repast 15 AGardner 16 Ballads 17 Mohammedan 
decree 18 Back of the 
neck 19 Diamond­20 Certain beam 21 Alit 
23 "-by the papers" 25 Of heroic 
proportions 27 "Hedda -" 29 TV's Vigoda 30 Havefood 33 Curved molding 34 Vestiges 37 Pindaric 38 Gerald or 
Henry 39 More easily ~ 1985 Tribune Media Servtces. Inc. 4/26/85
All Rights Reserved

handled, as a 
ship 40 Makers: abbr. 2 Jai­41 Table scrap 3 WWII slogan 42 Trustworthy 4 Ger. spa 43 "-a song go 5 Air 
out..." 6 Kind of drum 44 Sunbeam 7 Doctoral degree 45 Peron's land: 8 Independence 
abbr. Hall item 46 Wash. city 9 Medicinal plant 48 Striped 10 Faneuil Hall 51 Bubble 11 Gr. flask 52 Parasite 12 Unwanted plant 54 Genesis name 14 Patrick Henry 56 Psychic letters alternative 59 Byway 20 Golf mound 60 Blacksmith 22 High cards 
necessity 24 Wipter vehicle 62 Gratis 26 Strides 63 Conjunctions 27 Have an inter· 64 Court case est in 65 Lat. abbr. 28 Gr. marketplace 66 Nuisance 31 Pertinent 67 Cloche and tam 32 Seed cover 68 "Jane-" 35 Roam 
36 Exist DOWN 40 Wallace of TV 1 Goodtime 42 Suspend 

Thursday's Solution 
47 Everyone 57 Scorch 49 "-of robins..." 58 Soccer 50 Boat's crane immortal 52 Rebuff 61 New Deal 53 Window glass letters 55 Diagonal seam 62 Clubdues 



Wanted••.
* Business Manager 
for 


0 Cultural Arts Commission
0 

0 (1985-86) 
Get involved with the SAB! If interested, call Anne 283-127 4 239-7757 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
~YoNAI?Al 
I 
NO/NO/
\ NO liHf'J'f/Vt::o:Jt'.
\ 
I 
Kevin Walsh 



Campus 
Friday, April26 

•12 · 1 p.m. · Lecture, "The Contemporary 
Historical Novel in Latin America: The War of Ideologies in Vargas Llosa'sla Guerra del Fin del Mundo," Prof. Raymond Souza, U. of 
Kansas, ETS Theatre, CCE. 
•12:45, 
1 & 1:15 p.m. -Pie, Popcorn & Cereal Eating Contests, South Quad, Sponsored by An Tostal '85, Free. 

•I 
:4S p.m. · SerfAuction, South Quad Stage, Sponsored by An Tostal '85. 

•
3 p.m. -Dating Game, South Quad Stage (Dining Hall if it kains), Sponsored byAnTos­taJ '8S, Free. 

•3 
p.m. · Tennis Quadrangular, ND Men, Ohio, Bowling Green & Northern Illinois, Courtney Courts. 

•4:30 
p.m. · Trip to 'White Sox Game, Bus, Beverages & Tickets For Only S 1 5, Anyone In­terested Call Cathy or Ellen at 284-5210, White Sox vs. Yankees. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Kisser Check-In, LaFormne, Sponsored by An Tostal '85. 

•7:30 
p.m. · Friday Night FUm Series, "Camera Buff," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m.· Concert, NO Brass & Woodwind Ensembles, Washington Hall. 

•9 
& 11 p.m. & 1 a.m. -Film, "Revenge of the Nerds," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1. 50. 

•12 
Midnight · Midnight Movies, Stepan Center, Sponsored by An Tostal '8S, Free. 

Saturday, April 27 


•
Beginning ofSenior Month 

•8 
a.m.. Education Service Examination, Room 127 Nieuwland. 



'TV Tonight 
8:00p.m.  16  The Best Times  
22  Movie ­Arthur the King  
28  Webster  
34  Washington Week in Review  
8:30p.m.  28  Mr. Belvedere  
34  Wall Street Week  
9:00p.m.  16  Half-Nelson  
28  Benson  
34  Great Performances  


"Well, here comes Roy again. He sure does think he's Hell on Wheels." 
•8 
a.m. -Medical College Admissions Test, Engineering Auditorium. 

•9 
-11:30 a.m. -Kite Rec, Logan Center, Volunteers Needed, Sponsored by ND/SMC Council for the Retarded, Free. 

•I 
p.m. . Blue-Gold Football Game, NO Stadium. 

•I 
:30 p.m.· Lacrosse, ND vs. Ohio Wesleyan, Cartier Field. 

•1 
:30 p.m. . Chariot Procession, Dining Halls, Sponsored by An Tostal '85. 

•4 
p.m. -Graduate Piano Recital, Moragh McMullin, AnnenbergAuditorium. 

•6
p.m.· ComedySpectacular, We Can Make You Laugh, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $2. 

•9 
& 11 p.m. & 1 a.m. ·FUm, "Revenge of the Nerds," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, 1.SO. 

Sunday,Aprll28 

•I 
2 p.m .. Baseball, NO vs. Butler,Jake Kline Field. 

•1 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Men vs. Michigan State, Courtney Courts. 

•1 
-4 p.m. -Art Exhibition, Print, Drawing & Photography Gallery. 

•1 
· 3:30 p.m. -Logan Center Picnic, Holy Cross Hall (NO) Picnic Area, Volunteers Welcome, Sponsored by ND/SMC Council for the Retarded, Free. 

•2 
p.m. · Art Lecture, Patricia Renick, U. of Cincinnati, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. · Concert, Bach B Minor Mass with the Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Or· chestra, Sacred Heart Church. 

•I 
0:30p.m. · Carroll Hall Mass, Father Steve Gibson's Last Hall Mass, Carroll Hall Lawn. 


9:30p.m.  28  Offthe Rack  
lO:OOp.m.  16  Miami Vice  
28  Me and Mom  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Body Electric  


Hard working, fun loving people who want to make the '85-'86 school year the best ever. How can this objective be achieved? By calling Steve at 239-7757 
and joining **TheSpecial Events Committee** Help out with: 
ANTOSTAL FALL FESTIVAL MARDI GRAS WELCOME WEEK 
O(X)OOOOC(X)OCK>O~~~~~====~==~~==~====~====~===d~==~~·~~~~"~~=f••~ 
• 


~­


Friday, April 26, 1985 page 12 

Irish lacrosse team must win against MLA foe Wesleyan 
By MIKE SULLIVAN beat Ohio Wesleyan. This will be the trol the hall and force them to make Sports Writer fifth meeting between the two some mistakes. If we're patient, schools, and the Irish have yet to don't take chances, and capitalize on Will Notre Dame repeat as Mid­figure out a way to beat the Bishops. their mistakes, we should be able to 
west lacrosse champion? Last year, Wesleyan was responsible beat them." 
That question should be for Notre Dame's only MLA loss, a It will he very important for Notre answered this weekend when the 12-5 defeat at Delaware, Ohio, and Dame to avoid falling behind early. the Irish lacrosse team plays host to O'Leary and his players do not have The Irish have never been a strong a pair of Midwest Lacrosse Associa­to he reminded ofthis fact. come-from-behind team, as last tion opponents, Ohio Wesleyan and "They're the only team we've year's loss at Wesleyan exemplifies. Wittenberg. never beaten in the Midwest," says In that game, the Bishops jumped 
Ohio Wesleyan will visit Cartier O'Leary. "They beat us convincingly out to a 5-2 first-quarter lead and Field tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., while last year, and there's nothing more never looked back. The same thing Wittenberg will .try to upset Notre the seniors would like than to beat happened at Denison last week Dame on Sunday in another 1:30 them. And it would be that much when the Big Red massacred the game. better to beat an undefeated team. It Irish in the first half, eventually 
For all intents and purposes, would take some of the sting out of moving out to a 15-0 lead before though, the weekend revolves last week's loss (to Denison) be­winning, 16-9. entirely around tomorrow's cause it would be such a big win for Fortunately for the Irish, they matchup. Ohio Wesleyan, ranked us." usually play much better at home. No. 3 in the nation in Division III, A win over Wesleyan would The last time they lost on Cartier presents a major challenge to Rich indeed be big, not only because the was two years ago to, you guessed it, O'Leary's Irish squad, which must Irish have never beaten the Bishops, Ohio Wesleyan. However, unlike beat the undefeated ( 13-0) Battling but also because Wesleyan is such a most Wesleyan-Notre Dame games, Bishops if it wants to stay in the race formidable opponent. The fact that that game was close until the end, for the MLA title. it is a Division III team means little in when the Bishops wound up on top, 
"If we want to repeat, the W es­lacrosse because Division I and III 14-12. leyan game is a must win for us," says schools frequently compete (there "Playing at home is always a plus O'Leary, whose team finds its back is no Division II). Not only have the for us," says O'Leary. "For a team like against the wall after losing a costly Bishops cleaned up on their Mid­a lacrosse team that doesn't expect MLA game to Denison last weekend. western opposition, hut they have large crowds, a vocal crowd can do "Ifwe lose two games to the top two also beat some very good Eastern wonders." teams in the league, there's almost teams. It may take more than a large no hope that we'll be considered for "Wesleyan has been scoring a lot crowd to beat Ohio Wesleyan, but the championship (which is decided of goals, which is a direct relation­Sunday's opponent, Wittenberg, is by a panel of judges). And we ship to their talent," explains another story. The Tigers represent shouldn't be." O'Leary. "They probably have the one of those Midwestern lacrosse 
In order for Notre Dame to avoid most talented team in the Midwest. programs that is struggling to elimination from the Ml.A race, "We're just going to go out there become competitive. And however, it is going to have to do with the attitude that, if we play as 
see LACROSSE, page 10 

something it has never done before -well as we possibly can, we can con-

ND baseball team wins, ties with Bowling Green 


By MIKE CARNEY 
Sports Writer 
With the end ofthe season fast ap­proaching, the Notre Dame baseball team is begining to put it all toget­her. At Bowling Green Wednesday, the Irish combined clutch hitting and excellent reliefpitching to earn a win and a tie in a non-conference doubleheader to boost their season record to 17-22-2. 
In the first game, the Irish jumped out to a 3-0 first inning lead that quickly turned into a second inning deficit of6-3. StarterJoe Dobosh was knocked out in the fourth inning after giving up 7 runs. Coach Larry Gallo then called on his new-found bullpen ace, Buster Lopes. Lopes, who was a starter at the beginning of the season, has been moved to the bullpen for the rest of the sea~on. 

-

"We've had some problems with reliefpitching earlier in the season," Gallo said, "so I decided to move Lopes into the bullpen. He was an excellent relief pitcher last summer and has the ability to throw very hard for two or three innings. He has the added advantage ofgood control of his pitches, especially his break­ing ball." 
Lopes also seems happy with the move. 
"I think I am primarily a relief pitcher," Lopes says. "At the begin­ning of the year I was losing a lot of games in the sixth and seventh in­nings. This way I can pitch every day and really help the ballclub." 
With Lopes holding the Bowling Green bats in check, it was up to the Irish batsmen to do the rest. In the fifth inning, the Irish exploded for four runs to put them up for keeps. The key hit of the inning was by pinch hitter Mike Doming. Dorning collected the game-winning RBI with a two-run scoring single. 
Other good offensive perfor­mances were turned in by second basemanJackie Moran, who went 2­4 with two runs scored, shortstop Tom Shields, who was 2-2, including his sixth homerun of the year, and Mike Trudeau, who hit a single­season Irish record-breaking twelfth double. The final score read 10·9 in favor of the Irish. Lopes got the vic­tory, evening his season record at 4­4. 
Game two was stopped after the sixth inning because of darkness. The score at the time was 5-5. The Irish fell behind early again but battled back to tie the score in the sixth. Steve Powell started for the Irish and went 4 1/3 innings, giving up five runs. Lopes went the remain­ing distance. 

Moran continued to be hot at the plate, as he went 1-2. Rich Vanthour­nout also had a big game collecting his 57th and 58th hits of the year. This broke the old record of 56 hits set by Mike Metzler last year. Dave Clark ably filled the DH spot, going 2-3, and Scott Rogers added a line shot homerun to boost the Irish at­tack. 
The Irish head into four big con-
see BASEBALL, page 10 


Irish tennis team sweeps Belles, 9-0 
By MARY SIEGER day's meet against the Belles was and plans to use the remainder ofits Sports Writer anti-climatic. The Irish dominated season to develop poise against top 
I . the meet from the outset, easily midwestern teams. Gentle Thursday was kind to the claiming all nine matches without "We coasted in the fall and we 
Notre Dame women's tennis team. splitting sets. want to get some tournament tough­, ~ As An Tostal events kicked offyes­With the meet locked up at 6-0 ness," said Saint Mary's coachjoanne t ( terday afternoon at Saint Mary's Col­going into the doubles matches, the Nester. "We plan to play tougher f,. lege, the Irish finished their regular Irish saw fiercer competition from matches so we'll play tougher at the, season on an optimistic note as they Saint Mary's as the Belles scrambled Nationals." 
quickly shut out the Belles, 9-0, at to chalk up points. While Notre
r 
the Angela Atheletic Facility. Dame won each of its first sets, 6-0, Both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame 
' The victory over the Belles im­the Irish seemed to let their guard eagerly anticipated yesterday's proved Notre Dame's spring record down during the second set..'i. match, rekindling some of the to 18-4. Combined with a spotless 5-Senior co-captain Lisa La.Fratta's rivalry between the two schools. In
' 0 fall record, the Irish close the tendinitis affected her play at No. 2 the first meetings between Notre' books on the 1984-1985 season doubles, causing her to miss some Dame and Saint Mary's, the Bellesi ,i 
' with a spectacular 23-4 mark, and shots during the second set, while dominated the Irish. As Notre F ' the most successful season in the teammates Cathy Schnell and Mic­Dame's program developed, the team's eight-year history. helle Dasso at No. 3 doubles meets became more challenging. 
"There is a great attitude on this struggled to pull out their second Now, the contests usually finish with team and it has developed with each set, 7-6. lopsided results in Notre Dame's match," said Notre Dame head "There was a lapse of concentra­favor. coach Sharon Petro. "Considering tion out there," said Petro. "But the our season and the way we've been meet went pretty much like we ex­"There is a good, intense rivalry playing, getting the National Cham­pected." between Notre Dame and Saint pionship now would be icing on the Saint Mary's spring record falls to Mary's which strengthens our cake." 5·2 after yesterday's loss to the Irish cerebral part of the game," said 
Since Notre Dame already and marks the midway point in the Nester. "It's a psychological ex­qualified for next month's NCAA Relies' season. Saint Mary's qualified perience to pit ourselves against Division II National Championship for the May 18 NAIA National Cham­someone who we know is as strong Tournament in California, yester-pionship Tournament in Kansas City as Notre Dame." 

SM C assistant AD Dillon resigns four-year-old post 
By MARK B.JOHNSON 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's athletic department announced yesterday the 
resignation of Timothy J. Dillon, Assistant Director ofAthletics and 
Recreation, to become effective June l, 1985. 
According to the athletic department, Dillon, who has been with the College for four years, is leaving to pursue other professional interest..o;. 
"It is going to be hard to replace someone who cared about stu­dents and promoted Saint Mary's athletics as much as Tim Dillon did," said Athletic Council President, senior Ellen Byrne. "He always did all that he could for the athletes and the athletic department, and was honesl and straight-forward in his efforts -something which I think has been lacking in the present administration's handling of athletics as a whole." 
Dillon, who helped set the groundwork ofthe athletic department four years ago, has worked in coordination with Notre Dame in hos­ting the N.C.A.A. fencing championships and the Junior Olympics and he has been a driving force in gaining national recognition for Saint Mary's. 
Senior Kerry Klein, Student Intramural Coordinator and Athletic Council member stated, "I think his resignation is really unfortunate. He has done a fantastic job. It is a big loss to the College, but espe­cially to the students. He has so much potential and could have done so much more for the ahtletic program -if only he had not been stripped ofall responsibilities and stifled by what I consider to be an obvious case ofdiscrimination." 

....___________________________________________ 





