------------------------~--~------------­
Spring Break -page 7 


Behind closed doors 
Last night's judicial Council meeting discussed the identification of those pictured was not the role ofjudicial boards in hall disciplinary mat­available. See anyoneyou know? ters. The meeting also was closed to the public. so 


Freshman counselors get raves, but other advisers frowned upon 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE ing among course offerings within a 'settled' in a college often need a Edttor-tn-Cbief major, and wider spectrum ofinformation," the 
• The lack ofsolid career counsel­report adds. "Many students ... com­
The academic-counseling pro­ing. plain about sophomore counseling gram of the Freshman Year of A report by the University Curric­and also about all advising being Studies received rave reviews yes­ulum Committee, which the done by an other-occupied and 
terday, but the Notre Dame Aca­Academic Council is now charged hard-to-see chairman." 
demic Council issued a thumbs with approving (related story, page During freshman year, students 
down to the quality of counseling 3), suggested implementing a are assigned to a full-time adviser in 
available to sophomores, juniors and central University Counseling Office the Freshman Year of Studies office. 
seniors. to alleviate problem. Once students enroll in one of the 
The discussion on counseling "A problem arises in the sopho­four colleges, they are assigned to a lasted 90 minutes -the bulk of this more year," the report said. "Many profressor or chairman for guidance. month's meeting on proposed Uni­students are not yet settled down in According to a release issued last versity curriculum changes -as a college and a major, but they are night by Information Director Rich­
council members identified several domiciled in a college. Dean's ard Conklin, "There was agreement problems with Notre Dame's aca­offices are, quite understandably, that the University ought to provide demic counseling, such as: inward-facing, concerned with some post-freshman year initiative 
• Poor counseling in choosing a courses, requirements, majors, etc. in bringing students together in 
major, in their respective colleges. see ACADEMIC, page 3
• Inadequate guidance in choos-"But even students who are 

National boycott of Upjohn started by Right to Life 
ByJOHN HEASLY inducing drug for home use," said Copy Editor George Schimming, an Upjohn sales­man who quit his job in 1983 be­
A nationwide boycott ofproducts cause of personal objections to manufactured by the Upjohn Com­Upjohn's research. pany of Kalamazoo, Mich., was "Self-administration ofprostaglan­started in this state Saturday by dins during the first six weeks of Indiana Right to life. pregnancy look favorable" and 
Upjohn is a major manufacturer of "there seems to be no doubt that we prostaglandin products used to can expect a continued expansion in abort fetuses in the second trimester this direction and that possibly an ofpregnancy. The company is also a important field of fertility control is major supporter of research aimed evolving," were the words Upjohn at perfecting an abortifacient to be fertility researcher Edward Souther used in the first trimester of preg­used to describe his work in an 1983 nancy. Upjohn memorandum obtained by 
The possible development of Schimming and published in Christi­
prostaglandin as an ovet:-the­anity Today in the Oct. 7 issue ofthat 
counter drug for first trimester abor­same year. 
tions is what concerns Indiana Right "There's always been an informal 
to Life, according to spokeswoman boycott against them ( Upjohn ), but 
Nadia Shloss. until now, we never had proofand .. 
Upjohn denies the possibility of . we had no business spreading 
this development. rumors," said Shloss. 
"Upjohn has been studying pros­"Upjohn has denied for years they taglandins for some time, but that were researching prostaglandin for there has been any research ~nto an first trimester abortions," she said. over-the-counter or at-home prod­"We respect their right to uct is completely false," countered boycott," said Dussling. Upjohn spokesperson Frankie Dussl­But, bussling added, Upjohn is not ing. interested in abortion products used 
.The boycott was prompted by outside a "supervised and very documentation presented by the strictly controlled medicinal set­Michigan chapter ofRight to life at a ting." National Right to life meeting this Upjohn's rationale for producing January in Washington D.C. abortifacients was expressed in a 
Submitted by the Michigan chap­form letter of I-983: "Where a wo­
ter were articles which appeared in man decides in concert with her 
the journals Contraception in Sep­physician to have an abortion, we 
tember 1981; Prostaglandin in Octo­believe that if it's within our ability 
ber 1982; and Acta Obstet Gynecol, to deliver a safe and effective medi­
a Scandinavian publication, in 1983, cal agent for the procedure, we have 
all reporting Upjohn involvement in a responsibility to do so." 
first trimester abortion research. Upjohn currently has three prod­
Upjohn has been "providingdrugs ucts for second trimester abortions 
and financial support for projects all which are "tightly controlled," 
whose clearly stated goals included 
the refinement of an abortion-see UPJOHN, page 4 
An Tostal chairman aims for fun 'in a business way' 
Editor's Note: The following stories are parts three and four of a series on thefinancial workings of Notre Dame student govern­ment and several student organi­zations. Today's stories examine An Tostal and The Obseroer. 
By FRANK LIPO 
Copy Editor 
It is by far the largest and most popular activity at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's during the school year, according to Student Body Treasurer AI Novas. 
An Tostal Chairman Armando Byrne said he does not expect anything different this year. "We're going to have fun -in a business way." 
Yet. despite its popularity with students, just two years ago An Tostal was criticized for its finan­cial management. 
"It used to be autonomous," said Novas. An Tostal had a separate checking account until 1982, the treasurer said. 
That quickly changed when an audit discovered that one of the 1982 An Tostal organizers had written checks totalling S3,000 to himself. f..n Tostal now must send its invoices and receipts through Novas' office. This same procedure is required before checks for any branch ofstudent government will be issued. 
"We don't have outside check­ing accounts for anything, except some clubs and organizations, 

which don't have any student ac­tivities fees," said Joni Neal, direc­tor of student activities. She said Byrne has regularly scheduled meetings with Paul Matwiy, assis­tant director ofstudent activities. 
"All contracts have to be sent through our office," and Thomas Mason, vice president for business cally the entire student body at­Because the purpose of student affairs, must give final approval of tends." She explained, "An Tostal is government is to serve -students, contracts, she said. This system al· not set up as a fund raiser." Be­not to make a profit, the benefits of lows greater accountability and cause there is no admission, there An Tostal outweigh the costs. control, she said. is no profit, she said. For instance, a loss of 5500 on an 
However, An Tostal is "free to be Neal said An Tostal must be event which 80 percent of the stu­creative," Neal said. It is "one of viewed within the framework of the events each year that practi-student government philosophy. see AN TOSTAL, page 5 
Observer profits under University control 
By BOB MUSSELMAN  The loss was revealed in a Uni­ means the administration gets to  
StaffReporter  versity audit done after the paper  approve  all  transactions,  keep  
requested an increase in the man­ Observer funds in a University ac­ 
Anewspaper strives to provide a  datory student fee which partially  count, require the paper to submit  
superior news product. Businesses  funds its operation. The adminis­ a budget to liaison Father William  
try  to  make lots of money.  Put  tration required the audit before  Beauchamp  twice  a  year,  and  
them together and you get .t won­ the increase could be granted.  mandate that all purchases be ap­ 
derful  news  product that makes  Besides the loss, the audit un­ proved in the controller's office.  
big bucks, right?  covered  various  forms  of  mis­ Quite a change from the traditional  
Not always.  management, payroll inaccuracies  Observer  financial  arrangement,  
and an interest-free loan to an em­ which Vonderheide said was "run  
Go back  to  fiscal  1983, when  ployee,  according  to  ·  current  like a checkbook."  
The Observer, "the independent  Editor-in-Chief Bob Vonderheide.  Observer  officials  fought  the  
student newspaper serving Notre  The  administration  decided  a  ruling, saying administration con­ 
Dame  and  Saint  Mary's,"  lost  change in financial  management  trol over Observer money could  
S7,000.  Never  mind  the  style,  was in order.  lead to their using it to attempt to  
news coverage, or sports report­ Enter  Budget  Unit  Control,  a  
ing. The bottom line was red.  . fancy  University  name  which  see OBSERVER, page 4  


..--------­
~-----­
The Observer Wednesday, March 13, 1985 -page 2 


In Brief 
A judge yesterday authorized a Manhattan 
district attorney to resubmit the Bernhard Goetz subway shooting case to a grand jury. District Attorney Robert Morgenthau said Act­ing Supreme Court Justice Stephen Crane signed the order after prosecutors presented new evidence in the case. Morgenthau said the case will be presented to a grand jury next week. Morgenthau refused to say what the new evidence was. Lerner said in a statement that the move to resubmit represented a "political move" by Mor­genthau because public opinion had shifted away from overwhelm­ing support for Goetz. -AP 
A house appropriations subcommittee fired the first shot in the congressional battle over the MX missile yesterday by voting 7-4 to accept President Reagan's recommendation for spending S I. S billion to produce another 21 of the long-range nu­clear weapons. The panel, meeting even as the arms control negotia­tions were beginning in Geneva, opened what is forecast as a close and bitter battle in both the House and Senate later this month. Crit­ics of the MX, which is to be installed in existing Minuteman missile silos in Nebraska and Montana, say it is vulnerable to a first-strike Soviet attack. -AP 
The Arnold Air Society, a servjce organization affiliated with AFROTC, was named the outstanding squadron in its area comprised of schools from Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois and Indiana. They were also named Area IX Headquarters for the coming year. -The Obsen1er 
Of Interest 
The Senior ClasS is sponsoring a St. Patrick's Day party a little early. The party will be tonight beginningat 9 at HI's Old Time Saloon in Niles, Michigan. Half-price specials will be featured. -The Obsen'er 
Parking Restrictions:Because ofthe NCAA Basket­ball Tournament, Security Director Glenn Terry has announced some parking restrictions. Parking will be restricted today on the southeast quadrant of the stadium yard. Passes will be required for that area today. Tomorrow, additional restrictions will include the Red East and Red West fields. These areas will have controlled entrances. Saturday, there will be controlled entrance to the same 
lots. Students affected by the restrictions may park in other student lots including CD-6 or Green Field. -The Observer 
StudentGovernmentapplicantswill have a 
mandatory meeting tonight at 7 in the New Orleans Room of LaFortune. All students who have applied for positions in next year's cabinet must attend. The meeting is open to those who are still inter­ested in applying. -The Observer 
A Mexican Lunch will be served in the Center for Social <;;oncerns tomorrow from II:30 to 1:30. The lunch will in­clude tacos, Spanish rice, salad, chips, coffee and tea. It will be prepared and served by women ofSt. Steven's Parish Guadalupe So­ciety. The cost of the lunch is S3. Proceeds will be donated to the parish to support community effort. -The Observer 

Weather 
Becoming cloudy today with a SO percent chance ofrain late in the day. High In the upper SOs. A 70 percent chance of rain. Low in the lower to mid 40s. Cloudy to­morrow with 40 percent chance of rain during the morning. High in the lower SOs. 

Today's issu., was produced by:
The Observer 
Design Editor................................Andy Saal 
Design Assistant .....................Alex Pdtz.,r 
lbe Observer (USPS ~99 2-4000) Is Layout Staff.................. Traq and PrisclUa 
publlsh.,d Monday through Friday and Typesetters ................................. Vic and Ted 
on hom., football Saturdays, .,xcept News Editor......................... Keith Harrison 
during .,xam and vacation P"riods. lbe Copy Editor ....................................... Uz Flor 
Obaerver is published by th., students of Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Scheuermann 
th., University of Notre Dame and Saint Viewpoint Copy Editor............ Mary Ellen 
Mary's CoU.,gc. Subscriptions may be Viewpoint Layout.................Carol Brown 
purchased for 130 P"r year ( no P"r 5<:· Features Copy Editor ................... Ed Nolan 
mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Features Layout ................... Andl Schnuck 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 4M~6. ND Day Editor .............. Cindy Rauckhorst 
1be Observer is a member of lbe SMCDay Editor ............................. Ed Nolan AMoclaled Press. All reproduction Ad Design .................... Frc:d and Catherine rights ar., reserved. Photographer ............................. Mary Flynn 


Renewed interest suggests theory: Beats on the road to popularity 
I saw the best minds ofmy generation destroyed by madness, starotng hysterical naked, 
Dan
dragging themselves through the negro streets at dawn lookingfor an angryfix, 
McCullough
angelheaded hipsters burning for the ancient heavenly connection to tbe starry dynamo in the ma­
News Editor 
chinery ofnight, 
who poverty and tatters and hollow-eyed and high ·--------------------­
sat up smoking in the supernatural darkness ofcold-In addition, Viking Penguin publishers have an­
water flats floating across the tops of cities con­nounced they will publish seven books by "baron ofthe 
templating jazz ... "-Allen Ginsberg, "Howl." Beat Generation" William Burroughs during the next 
five years. 
During the 19SOs, a group ofpoets, novelists and free But why the new interest in the Beats? 
thinkers compiled a "new generation" which the press It was generally believed that the Beats' ideas died 
of that period collectively called "the Beats." out during the rise of the Hippie movement in the 
The Beats, or Beatniks, followed a philosophy of 1960s. Peace protests and civil rights replaced joy rides defeatism or disillusionment with the status quo. They and goatees. were born out of the post-war normalcy to which The defeatist attitudes of the earlier generation -as America had succumbed vocalized by Beat poet during the Eisenhower ad­Gregory Corso's statement ministration. The move­about the atomic bomb, "I ment was founded and cannot hate you," -was nurtured by such literary fig­replaced by the free love ures as Jack Kerouac, Allen and peace-based Ginsberg, William Bur­philosophies of the Hippies. roughs and Lawrence Ferlin­Are the Beats back? Accor­ghetti. ding to Weber, "The interest 
Perhaps the definitive revival in the Beats probably 
artistic work for the Beats has something to do with 
was Kerouac's novel "On ~~J!!l,.,--~~~~=»~~~:)'.J~a:.~ the 2Sth anniversary of the 
the Road." The cross­publication of'On the Road' 
country epic recounts the (in 1982). This was cele­
adventures of Sal Paradise brated with numerous aca­
and Dean Moriarty as they demic events. Another 
hit the highways in search of factor was the recent publi­
kicks and truth. cation of the Kerouac biog­
American Studies Profes­raphy "Memory Babe," by sor Ronald Weber, who Gerald Nicosia. Also, teaches "On the Road" in his Ginsberg is being American Journeys course, attributes the success of recognized as a major American poet. that novel to its autobiographical nature. "Kerouac's "But maybe," said Weber, "the new interest in the subject in his fiction was himself and the people he Beats has something to do with the quietness of this knew. His novels were his attempt to create a vast time. People are now looking back on that time with a legend out ofhimself." renewed interest." 
Apparently, the Kerouac legend caught on and he and Neal Cassady, who was the inspiration for the the generation he had helped to create began a wild Moriarty character in "On the Road," and who was a ride ofpopularity. central figure for many of the Beat writers and artists, 
Kerouac and some of the other writers of the Beat resurfaced during the "acid test," psychedelic drug era. generation have won the renewed interest of 198'; stu­He was present on novelist Ken Kesey's cross-country dents and scholars, 28 years after "On the Road" hit the bus/acid trips and was a major character in Tom Wolfe's bookstores and a generation was born. journal oftheir adventures, "The Electric Kooi-Aid Acid 
This year, Harper and Rowe publishing house gath­Test." ered poet Allen Ginsberg's complete works into one For the Beats, Cassady embodied the madness and massive volume for the first time ever. The erratic poet impulsiveness that the generation saw as the necessary had previously released his work in pamphlets and un­reaction to the times. derground books sometimes printed at San Francisco's "Songs are still being sung about Cassady," said City Lights Bookstore, the infamous Beat bookstore and Weber. "In that sense, the Beat generation hasn'tdied at hangout. all." 
I . ... Notre Dame and St. Marys 1
·-------------------------~


Please 
I .)/. · I
Starving Student 1 Discount Coupon 10% OFF I
support 
I 14k Italian Gold and Sterling Silver II Chains, Charms, Bracelets & Rings 1
AMERICAN 
I Students and Staff must present this Coupon or ID II for 10 percent Off-Offer Good Through March 31, 1985 I

CANCER 
1 Great American Jewelers I1 University Park Mall -On The Concourse I

SOCIETY® 
I Checks Welcome •, Visa (directly In front of Browns Sporting Goods) I Mastercard • American Express ( l) II Layaways and Repair Service 2 9 277-3353 


c ·-------------------------~ 
• SUMMER EMPLOYMENT? APPLICATIONS FOR ON-CAMPUS 


POSITIONS NOW AVAILABLE 
Location: Personnel Dc,ldrhnent Brownson Hall 
HOURS: 1PM_-4:30PM 
Monday-Friday
• ..• 
• 1

iC • • • • 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 

University requirements 
Fresh. Sop h. Junior Serior 
Eng. Comp/Sem. (1 sem. ea.) ~: 
Eng./Comp. Sem. (1 sem. ea.) 


l I I l 
Math (2 sem.) 
Math (2 sem.) I : :I I I I 
P.E. 
or ROTC (2 sem.) 

P.E. 
or ROTC (2 sem.) 


I I I I I 
Hist./Soc. Sci. (1 sem.) 
Hist./Soc. Sci. (2 sem.) I I I l I 
Science (2 sem.) 
Science (2 sem.) 
I I I I I 
Philosophy (2 sem.) 
Philosophy (2 sem.) 
i I I I=J 
Theology (2 sem.) Theology (2 sem.) I f



I I :I 
Fine Arts/lit. (1 sem.) 
Present curriculum 
1nm.to coriiPktf• requiliment]
Proposed curriculum 
Observer Graphic Source: Office of the Provost 
t NICK&* :
. .. . 
~ KENNY'S ~ ~ Wed. Night: $1 IMPORTS ~ ~ featuring GRIZZLY ~ t Thurs Night : 25c Beers t 
for the Tournament • 
~ Open for Lunch 11:30 Daily iC 
..ITIONSIUIITIINS..ITIGNSIUDITIINS..ITIINSIIIITIINSIMITI 
HE DEPARTMENT OF CCH1UNICATION & THEATRE AT NOTRE DAME N[) THE DEPARTMENT OF CCH1UNICATION & THEATRE AT SAINT MARY'S ANNOUNCE -XliNT AUDITIONS FOR THE FOURTH N[) FINAL PRODUCTION OF THESE 

IYMIIIPI 
HILARIOUS CONT£11PORARY ITALIAN COI1EDY 
2 WOMEN, 4 MEN 
TUESDAY, MARCH 12, LITTLE THEATRE, t'()REAU HALL (SAINT MARY'S) ' 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, LAB THEATRE, WASHINGTON HALL (NOTRE DAME) 
7:00P.M. 
OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS 

-ITIIN-DITIDNS_ITI..SIUDIJIDNSIUDITIONS-ITIINU.ITI 
Wednesday, March 13, 1985--page 3 
Vote on curriculum report nears 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE 
Edttor-tn-Cbief 
The talking is over, now comes the voting. 
The Notre Dame Academic Coun­cil ended its ·initial paragraph-by­paragraph discussion of the University Curriculum Committee report yesterday, and will begin ap­proving the recommendations of the 17-page document at the coun­cil's next meeting April 15. 
The curriculum report, issued a year ago, outlines significant restructuring of the 13 required courses in the University core cur­riculum. 
One proposal would require an 
additional course in fine arts or 
literature and another in history or 
social science. 
The new curriculum also would 
extend the time allowed to com­
plete certain requirements and 
would require a yearlong introduc­
tory philosophy course during the 
sophomore year. 
Yesterday's meeting, which was closed to the public, focused on the last five pages ofthe report and a stu­dent addendum on the quality ofstu­dent life. 
The bulk of the discussion was about problems in academic coun­seling beyond the freshman year. (Story, page 1) _ 
Other issues debated included professionalism in undergraduate education, class size and the class withdrawal deadline. 
Agreeing with the curriculum report, members of the council warned that "the substitution ofper­ceived career interest for intellec­tual curiosity in making key educational decisions was threaten­ing the formation of a liberally ed­ucated person," according to a release issued last night by Richard 
Conklin, director ofInformation. 
"It was, however, observed that in the case ofinter-college educational traffic, the least-traveled students were in the Arts and Letters Col­lege," Conklin wrote. 
Student government Academic Commissioner Bruce Lohman who serves on the council agreed. "You don't see many Arts and Letters stu­dents pursuing a liberal education" by also electing for courses in sci­ence, business or even engineering. 
"It's not proper to say liberal edu­
cation and think only of the liberal 
arts," Lohman added. 
During the meeting, however, 

C1f!u. cfi'Lh & ...Lethu ~tudent cflduuo'Ly Council 
p•wunh 
MEET YOUR MAJOR 
DATE DEPARTMENT LOCATION TIME 
Wed. Art 1270.Shag 4:00-5:00 Psychology 200 Haggar Hall 4:30-5:30
March 13 Government 1040.Shag 7:00-8:00 COTH Washington hall 8:00-9:00 

University ofNotre Dame 
Foreign Study Programs TianjiD, China 
Summerl985 dane tO-August 1 

T111njin Program Overvie.., 
Six week Academic Session: 
Courses in Chinese Language and Culture, including opportunities for individual and group visits to nearby sites ofcultural, industrial, agricultural interest ...6 Notre Dame credits 
Two Week Toyr: Visits to important places in People's Republic ofChina, conducted byfaculty ofTianjin Foreign Languages Institute. 
~: 
$2,800 (tuition, room, board; tour, and 
imerna!ionai airfare) 
SateUite Room 242, O'Shaughnessy 
Wednesday, November 28 6:30pm Undergrads Grads Faculty 
EVERYONE WELCOME! 
Application forms and further information available in Foreign Study Programs Office. 420 Admin bldg 
Law School Dean David link said that in comparing the baccalaureate backgrounds of law school appli­cants, it is apparent that Notre Dame ~tudents receive a better liberal edu­cation. 
The curriculum report does not recommend requiring an additional course in science or business al­though it does recommend two ad­ditional courses in the liberal arts. The College of Science and the Col­lege of Engineering have expressed desire for more science require­ments. 
The new curriculum would allow 
students to complete the two­
semester natural science require­
ment until the end of the second 
year. But Lohman disagreed with the 
proposal, which he said would only 
affect Arts and Letters students. 
"Arts and Letters student should get out of their college and explore (during the freshman year)," Loh­man said. "They don't need to have a freer approach by (potentially) taking science out ofthe finit_year." 
The student addendum strongly recommends decreasing the size of classes, but discussion by the Aca­demic Council yesterday was incon­clusive. The University Curriculum report made no specific recommen­dations on the issue except to note that "the problem merits attention by the Academic Council." 
Some council members said large 
classeswere not all together bad and 
that some professors taught very ef­
fectively in a large class. However, 
the curriculum report noted that 
large classes eliminate personalized 
instruction and written assignments. 
A proposal by the curriculum 
committee to shorten the class 
withdrawal period to five weeks was 
opposed by student representatives, 
Freshman Year and ROTC. 
Lohman said the proposal would 
put too much pressure on students 
to judge the merit ofa class based on 
the first test. 
Academic 
continuedfrom page 1 
serious and fruitful conversation with professors about education aspirations." 
But Conklin's release said, "lbere 
was no agreement about whether 
this was better done by spreading 
the counseling responsibility among 
many professors, some of whom 
may not have the personality for it, 
or having fewer persons do it on al­
most a full-time basis." 
Dean of Freshman Year Emil Hof­man noted that through the years "no mechanism that works" has been found to assure an ideal coun­seling relationship develops be­tween all students and at least some professors. 
Student representatives who sit on the Academic Council reported "overwhelmingly positive student responses to the Counseling Office idea," according to Conklin. But stu­dent government Academic Com­missioner Bruce Lohman added last night that students did not want counseling within the departments eliminated. 
"There is a need for a University Counseling Office," Lohman wrote in December to Father Edward Mal­loy, chairman of the University Cur­riculum Committee. "A reasonable ratio ofadvisees to adviser should be maintained in all departments. This problem of advising ratio is only in­tensified by the University's stress on research." 
Correction 
Because ofan editing error, the telephone number of the Niles, Mich., Amtrak station was listed incorrectly in an advertisement in yesterday's Observer. The cor­rect number is 684-5763. 

~-----------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, March 13, 1985 -page 4 


U.S., Soviets begin arms talks in Geneva 
Associated Press 
GENEVA, Switzerland The United States and the Soviet Union began their nuclear arms talks yes­terday, with the chief Soviet dele­gate making it clear that he had received his instructions from Mik· hail Gorbachev four days before taking over as Kremlin leader. 
President Konstantin Chernenko died Sunday. But Victor Karpov, the leader ofMoscow's delegation to the Geneva talks, told reporters Gorbac­hev "presided over the meeting of 
the  Politburo  that  approved  the  
(negotiating)  instructions  last  
Thursday."  
Gorbachev,  <;4,  succeeded  

Chernenko as general secretary of the Soviet Communist Party Mon­day. 
As Vice President George Bush left Geneva for Moscow to attend Chernenko's funeral, he hinted he would try to set up a meeting be­tween President Reagan and the new Soviet leader. 
Bush said he would deliver a letter from Reagan. Asked whether Reagan was ready for a summit meeting, Bush said: "We'll talk about that after agreement is reached with the Soviets on what we are going to dis­close." 
In an unusual exchange with 

Observer 
continuedfrom page 1 
influence paper content, a possibil· 
ity Observer leaders complained 
about vigorously and the administra­
tion denied would materialize. 
In the end, the paper adopted the system but retained control of payroll matters. This, said Vonder­heide, "guarantees the University won't use payroll as a leverage." 
"Any student business should be on this system," Vonderheide says now, a year after the program's im· pkmentation. The paper made S I I ,000 in 1984, an S18,000 ·turn­around from the previous year. A5 a journalist, Vonderheide does not like the system, but as a businessman he realizes it is a "necessary evil." 
Besides becoming profitable, an­other change evolved, according to both Vonderheide and Business Manager Dave Taiclet. Because of the publicity surrounding the situa­tion, Observer employees became more aware that the paper is indeed a business, a change Vonderheide said has helped produce a feeling of 
"fiscal reality." 

Upjohn 
continuedfrom page 1 
not advertised, and require special shipment from Upjohn in Kalamazoo once a physician and his or her patient have decided to abort a pregnancy. 
Right to Life is supplementing 
their boycott effort by distributing 
S<.·veral thousand wallet-sized 
"alternative cards" listing Upjohn 
products and corresponding alter· 
natives from other manufacturers. 
lbe goal ofthe boycott, according to Shloss, is llpjohn's discon­tinuance of the development and use of prostaglandins in abortion­related applications. 
Negotiators from National Right to Life met with Upjohn representa­tives in an attempt to reach a com­promise but failed to do so, according to ShJoss. 
"The Upjohn boycott has been pretty much a given for a while," said Teresa Donovan of ND/SMC Right to Life. 
"We haven't organized any formal publicity campaigns against Up­john" but boycott activities in tile future are a possibility, said Donovan. 
reporters before yesterday's initial 
round of talks, Karpov declined to 
reply to a question as to whether the 
health of the 73-year-old Chernenko 
had been too poor for him to 
become involved in arms talks 
preparations. 
Karpov said simply, "That's quite 
enough." 
But Karpov seemed in a con­ciliatory mood. He said if both sides wanted an agreement "you can do that on the kitchen floor, here or somewhere else." 
Karpov warmly greeted the U.S. 
delegation leader, Max Kampelman, 
saying he hoped yesterday's session 
would be "one of the first in a series 
that we will negotiate, and reach an 
agreement." The next session is 
scheduled for tomorrow. 
After the nearly three hour meeting, Kampelman read a brief statement to a jammed news confer­ence, saying the two sides "had a serious and businesslike discussion of tile issues." Citing an agreement witll Karpov on "confidentiality" of tile negotiatons, Kampelman declined to answer questions from tile lectern. 
But when a reporter asked Kam­pelman later if Karpov had been the only Soviet negotiator at yesterday's session, Kampelman nodded. 
With reorganization, more stress 
has been put on increasing advertis­
ing revenue, accomplished with 
more aggressive salespeople. In­
creased revenue has allowed the 
purchase of a new $100,000 com­
puter, a S I 0,000 van, and the use ofa 
more expensive but better printer. 
Eventually, according to Taiclet, the paper would like to function without the 56 semester studentfee. 
Rick Pinkowski, accountant in the controller's office charged with ap­proving purchase requests, said the system "gives them a better way of watching what's going on," a senti· ment echoed by Vonderheide and Talclet. 
Beauchamp said The Observer has "come a long way in their busi­ness areas." Also, he said, the system provides a sense of continuity, something hard to accomplish with student turnover but necessary for consistent business performance. 
"The Observer is still indepen­dent in how they form their budget," Beauchamp said. 
According to all concerned, ad­ministration promises to leave edi­torial matters alone have been honored. 

HPC plans for end of MS drive feature ice cream, baseball events 
ByJOHN WALTERS 
News Staff 
The Hall Presidents' Council is appealing to two old American favorites for the final week of the multiple sclerosis drive: baseball and ice cream. 
During last night's HPC meeting, the council discussed bringing the MS Drive to a suc­cessful conclusion in two aca­demic weeks. For its part, the HPC will sponsor a raffle during the final week ofthe drive, March 25 to 31. "Our goal is to sell ap­proximately 1,300 tickets, which means about 30 percent of tile student population," said HPC chairman Chris Tayback. 
The grand prize is a baseball fan's heaven: tickets for the win­ner and 1 1 friends to see the Chicago Cubs in action on April 
13. lbe package includes trans­portation to Wrigley Field, din­ner after the game, and a night on Rush Street to cap off the day at tile ballgame. 
Each hall will also donate two prizes to the raffle, so a total of<;O prizes will be awarded. Tickets are a dollar apiece and go on sale immediatdy after break, accor· ding to Debbie Doherty, Lewis hall president. 
To appeal to your sweet tooth and to the MS Drive, a week for MS at Chris' Ice Cream is pres­ently underway. For each dollar spent, Chris' will donate a percentage to MS. Ice cream lovers should give the· name of their dorm because the dorm buying the most ice cream receives a free ice cream party, said Tayback. 
The HPC also discussed three amendments to constitutional proposals that have passed before student senate in recent weeks: According to Duane Lawrence, St. Edward's president and student body vice president· elect, "l11e three amendments are almost sure to pass in the sen­ate, tllen we will be able to write the new constitution." 
The amendments concern the Campus Life Council, voting 
rights for class prt:sidt;:nts and 
changes in the Student Activities 
Board. 
The CLC's role as an advisory board would be expanded while it would retain the same voting capacity in the senate. Increased faculty attendance at next year's CLC meetings is also on the drawing board. 
The second amendment con­cerns the question of whether class presidents will be able to exercise the right to vote in the senate. HPC decided this right would not be extended into the new constitution. 
The SAB would fall under the 
wing ofstudent government. The 
SAB manager would also become 
an executive coordinator for the 
student body president, meaning 
tile president and vice president 
would select the SAB manager. 
Lawrence said this would be a big improvement since the SAB and student· government would be guaranteed of working together and not against each other. 
TheNROTC College Program. $2,000 Expense MoneyAnd ANavy Officer Commission. 
The two-year NROTC College Program offers you two years of expense money that's worth up to S2,000 plus the challenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During your last two years in college the Navy pays for uniforms, NROTC textbooks, and an allowance of SlOO a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy officer, with important decision-making responsibilities. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
stop by the ROTC building on the Notre Dame campus, or dial 239-7274/6442 and ask for LT Wachtl. 
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. 


The Observer Wednesday, March 13, 1985 -page 5 

1he Observer/Mary flynn
Down at the lake 
The sun bas been playing peek-a-boo lately, but some students have been able to catch 0/' Sol during his_ occasional pre-spring appearances. Here, Amy Lopresti enjoys the sun at Lake Marion while doing a little reading. 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­plications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editors · News Copy Editors 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editors Questions should be directed to Keith Har­
rison or Joe Murphy. Resumes and personal statements are due Thursday, March 14. 
$ 
"~~~(~~;,,e~ SPRING BREAK 
IS NEARII 
This year tan, don't burn; prepare your skin at 
JM.S. Plaza 
'IAN-HAWAfM 
4609 Grope Rood sun tonn1ng solon Mishawaka, IN277-7026 
$ 
Can't go to Florida? Get a tan anyway in our booth, beds, or both 
• 
Sunshine Promotions presents 

with Special Guest WASP I Saturday, Marc:h 23, 8:00 pm Notre Dame A.C. C. Ke~se~rv-ed seats $12.50.••General Admission $11.50 

Tleketa a""llable at doe ACC Bo• Office, Select Seara, Seleet Robert•on'•· The ElJrlaarl Trutll• .I.R.'• M•efc Sllop (lAPorte}. World R"eorda (Goaloen), /lfuale /lfa,e (.Benton Harbor), Night Wlnda•.,(Mioloa-"a and Nll.,a), St. ~oaeplo Banlt(/lfa,. 0/!lee), and Karma Reeorda (Ft. Wall"•)­
Tickets on sale today!
* 
* 

Reagan confers with Mubarak; rates Egypt's latest peace proposal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President 
Reagan said yesterday that Egypt's 
formula to rekindle Middle East 
peace talks is "a positive contribu­
tion" but does not go far enough, 
and observed that Israel and its Arab 
neighbors "are still a long way from 
the negotiating table." 
After two hours of talks with 
Reagan, Egyptian President Hosni 
Mubarak insisted that "a golden op­,portunity for peace is emerging." 
The Egyptian leader said a recent 
agreement between King Hussein of 
Jordan and Yasser Arafat of the 
Palestine Liberation Organization 
for pursuing peace was "a major de­
velopment that should not be dis­
cou•Hed or discarded. 
"We cannot alford another missed 
opportunity for peace, and not 
during your presidency," Mubarak 
cautioned. 
The Egyptian leader pressed his 
plea for an $870 million increase in 

Budget Committee rejects tax hikes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Senate Budget Committee rejected yester­day a pair of Democratic-led proposals for major tax increases next year to reduce federal deficits. 
The Republican-controlled com­mittee stuck by Reagan's anti-tax in­crease position even as it continued to defy him on domestic spending, voting to maintain the federal revenue-sharing program for one more year and to freeze pay'for civil­ian and military government employees. 
The two votes against raising taxes left the committee in limbo as it completed its first review of the budget in hopes ofcoming up with a deficit-reduction plan. 
While the committee's actions fell far short of the domestic-spending 
;................................................• An Tostal



i BACKSTAGE ~ 
continuedfrompagel 
• ~
:: G ~\•
: ~\t! Q ~\ JACK DANIELS Ni 
: -'( 
• \ 
: : T-shirts, caps, & other prizes 
• 
•
• 
: GRAND PRIZE AT 1 AM 
• 
: IMPORTS $1.00 ALL NIGHT 
: J k D · 1 S • 1
• OC a me SOn peCIO 
11 
..• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••• • • • • • • •• 
American aid for his country and his plan for the United States to meet with a delegation of Palestinians and Jordanians as a first step toward Israeli-Arab peace talks. 
On the question of aid, Reagan promised to give the request a sym­pathetic hearing. However, an ad­ministration official, speaking only on condition of anonymity, said Reagan noted that the United States has budgetary problems of its own. 
On the second point, the official said nothing would be gained by a 
U.S. meeting witb a Palestinian­Jordanian delegation -a panel which the administration suspects might be a cover for members ofthe PLO. 
Reagan and Mubarak played down 
their differences as they read 
departure statements outside the 
White House diplomatic entrance, 
facing the north lawn. 
"I believe that no leader is more 
equipped to play an historic role and 
fulfill a sacred mission in the Middle 
cuts President Reagan and many Republicans want, at the same time the panel was refusing to embrace tax increases that many Democrats insist are needed to complement spending cuts that have been ap­
proved. 
Despite that, Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M., the committee chairman, said, "It ain't over till it's over." 
Domenici and several other com­mittee members were said to be trying to assemble deficit-reduction packages that could still win the 12 votes needed for committee ap­proval. 
The first vote on taxes was 17-5 against a proposal by Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., to raise $29 billion in 1986 and nearly $160 billion over the next three years to reduce the deficit. 
: dent body attends, would be an ac­: ceptable loss. But the same $500
•
loss on an event which 20 percent of :the student body attends, mightbe 
ht i ~~~~x:~::~.in the same manner,
Q : "There was a lack of business eti­
• queue," said Byrne of past An Tos­: tals. He said the policies of the new 
: financialsystemarebetterandactas
• safeguards. All An Tostal workers 
• fill ••'fi fi
• 
must outrequtsltlon orms orex­: penditures and send a receipt with 

• 
an explanation to Byrne. He then : sends the receipt and the explana­: tion to Novas. The turnover rate is

• 
approximately four days . 


Then, on a vote of 16-4 with Republicans Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas and Charles Grassley ofIowa voting present, the committee rejected a proposal by Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, to raise taxes 
by $9.4 billion next year and $44 bil­lion through 1988. 
Metzenbaum said his plan would carve into the "corporate welfare" now contained in the tax code. 
Hollings, who proposed canceling a provision built into the law to ad­just tax rates for inflation next year, said he was "ready, willing and able" to raise taxes "to pay for programs I support." 
Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo., added, "I think it's premature to start talking about tax increases. I believe we have not yet done enough on spending reductions and we should keep our eye on that ball." 
East," Mubarak told Reagan. "Destiny has chosen you to lead this great nation at a time when a golden opponunity for peace is emerging." 
Reagan· said any negotiations must be within the framework of United Nations Security Council Resolution 242 which provides both for the res­toration of Arab land now occupied by Israel and the recognition of Is­rael to leave in peace in secure and recognized borders. 
The president told Mubarak, "Let us hope that the positive trends that have recently begun in the region will be strengthened and that with Egypt's valued help they will open the path to direct negotiations." 
The administration official said Mubarak did not abandon his idea for U.S. talks with a Jordanian­Palestinian delegation. "He didn't come with the idea to give it up in Washington," the official said. "The basic question is: how does it ad­vance the parties to direct negotia­tions?" 
The scandal two years ago which brought these greater controls has caused problems. Byrne said AnTos­tal is not allowed a petty cash fund. Therefore, a $1.98 expenditure re­quires a requisition form and ap­proval by Byrne and Novas in the same fashion as an S300 expend­iture. 
With so many events and so many people involved, Byrne said delegat­ing authority is the best way to oper­ate. "That risk factor will be there," said Byrne, speaking of the many people who handle money for the various events. 
Yet, Byrne said those students chosen to operate various events are picked in part for trustworthiness. The system of requisition forms and receipts with explanations is effec­tive, he added. 
"An Tostal has erupted the past four years," said Byrne. He. said he will try to infuse it with new blood and tap enthusiasm from other sources, especially freshmen. He is working on the build-up for An Tos­tal and he said exciting publicity is a high priority. 
Soviet leaders wanted smooth power change 
A88oclated Press But the exceptionally quick change this time distracted atten­MOSCOW -Mikhail Gorbachev's tion sharply from Chernenko and assumption of Kremlin power halved the period of official mourn­
eclipsed the death of his predeces­ing -some 48 hours as compared 
sor in a way that underscored both with four days for Andropov and his the Soviet style ofauthoritative lead­predecessor, Leonid Brezhnev. ership and the decisive nature of his Chernenko was not publicly rise to the leadership ofthe Commu­named general secretary for three 
nist Party. days after Andropov's death was an­nounced. Many Westerners surmised from
News analysis 
the speed of this transition that the decision to name Gorbachev must 
It was no surprise that the Soviet have been made in advance of Union turned to a new generation Chernenko's death and certainly after two decades ofrule by an aging before Monday. elite and two years oftransition lead­Westerners were stunned by the 
ership. rapidity of the announcement that But the new general secretary also Gorbachev would become general dominated the official press, taking secretary -made while the official office so quickly that he crowded news agency Tass and the radio and the death of Konstantin Chernenko television were still issuing state­offthe front pages. ments about Chernenko's death. Gorbachev quickly established Diplomats said the phenomenon himselfas a new leader. could be explained in part by desire In his first speech as party chief, for a smooth and swift transition he devoted only a few paragraphs to after two administrations marked as Chernenko -compared to the much by speculation about how lengthy discourse Chernenko made long the leader would live as by his on Andropov when he assumed achievements in foreign and domes­JX>wer a year ago. tic policy. Yesterday, Soviet arms negotiator Chernenko died Sunday after a Viktor Karpov told reporters in long illness and a two-month ab­Geneva, where he was opening sence from public view,.after only negotiations with the United States, holding office for I 3 months. His that Gorbachev had presided over a predecessor, Yuri Andropov, had Politburo meeting Thursday to en­not been seen in public for five dorse the Soviet bargaining stand. months when he died in February Throughout Soviet history, the 1984 after IS months in power. death of a leader has been reJX>rted In the two previous transitions, by the state-run newspapers with there were a few days of uncertainty black-bordered front pages bearing about who would be the next leader. large portraits of the deceased. This time, Gorbachev was named This time, the national dailies, in­head of the Communist Party within cluding the party organ Pravda, five hours of the announcement of devoted most of their front pages to Chernenko's death. Gorbachev. 
--------~-------------· 
AP Photo 
Mikhail Gorbachev, shoum sightseeing with his the death ofKonstantin Chernenko. An analysis of wife Raisa in London in December, was named the these events is at left. new leader ofthe Soviet Union Monday following 
Armenians take Turkish Embassy 
Associated Press a rented truck up to the embassy, a officers were at the scene. Members Tudor-style home in a quiet of the Royal Canadian Mounted 
OTTAWA -Three Armenian ter­riverside neighborhood just east of Police also were there. rorists shot their way into the downtown. The gunmen were not immedi­Turkish Embassy in Ottawa yester­The gunmen "were confronted by ately identified. They were taken to day, killing a security guard and a security guard at that point and police headquarters for questioning. taking II people hostage before sur­shots were exchanged," Rae said. rendering to police more than four "The front door of the embassy was In calls to news agencies, the gun­hours later. blown off by an explosive." men said they were members of the 
Turkey's ambassador, Coskun Witnesses reported hearing a loud Armenian Revolutionary Army and Kirca, S2, suffered multiple fractures explosion, then a burst of approxi­were seeking vengeance for an al­when he jumped or was pushed mately SO to 75 gunshots. leged mas;;acre of Armenians by from an embassy window, according The guard was "in the line offire," Turks in 191 S. to Sgt. Garry Rae of the Ottawa lying outside the embassy's front "We want our lands back and we police department. door during the takeover, Rae said. want the Turkish government to 
The ambassador's wife and a Police could not get to him until the recognize Armenian genocide in daughter were among the hostages, siege ended. The name of the guard, 191 S," one of the men said in a tele­all of whom were released un­who worked for Pinkerton Canada phone call broadcast by the harmed after police used bullhorns Ltd., was withheld until his family Canadian Broadcasting Corp. to negotiate with the gunmen for ap­could be notified. Between 1894 and 1915, Turkey proximately an hour. During the siege, police cordoned allegedly tried to exterminat.: the 
Police said the siege began shortly off about ten square blocks around Armenians, who say I. 5 million of after 7 a.m. when the gunmen drove the embassy. Some 100 city police their people were slain. 
Allstudents who have applied or who wish to applyfor cabinet positions in Student Government (executive coordinators~ cabinet members~ freshman orientation & transfer orientation) 
must attend. *
* 
* 
*
*
* 
*
*
7pm TONIGHT *
*
* 
New Orleans Rootra, LaFortune ~ 
************************************************ 

Accent 
Wednesday, March 13, 1985 -page 7 
The Observer/Mark Worscheh 
Ouch! today, wrinkles to111orrow 
Maria Kronstein 
features staff writer 
'8 
A war111 welco111e awaits students in Sunshine state 
pop, which we distributed to the
Mary Heilman 
students last year after the Saturday ·Mass."
features staff writer 
The Hospitality Center will be 
"We're not in Ft. Lauderdale in grams operating last year and slated providing these services again for loco parentis, as jailbondsmen, or as again for this year include: Spring Break '85 due to, "the tre­babysitters. We simply saw an issue •a "Student Finder" service, with mendous positive response of last and said we could help." which a student can register his year," Lennon said. 
So said Charles Lennon, Executive Florida as well as campus address 
Director· of the Alumni Association and phone number and locate other The Notre Dame Alumni Associa· 
of Notre Dame, describing the asso­Notre Dame students in Florida. tion van and tent will be set up next 
ciation's participation in the annual •a message exchange and infor· to Penrod's and the Yankee Trader 
Spring Break festivities in Ft. mation board, featuring scores and and open from 8:00 a.m. until 9:00 
Lauderdale, Fla. game information for Notre Dame p.m. Students, coordinated by this 
According to Lennon, the Alumni and national teams, as well as gen­year's Student-Alumni Relations Association instituted its program eral anouncements concerning Group representative Ed Leonard, for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu· trips, Mass schedules and transporta· will staff the center from 8 until 1, dt>nts in Ft. Lauderdale because it tion. and volunteers from the local "wanted to give the students an al· •a job interview service coor· alumni club will operate it from 1 ternative to laying around on the dinated by the alumni clubs in until it closes at 9. beach all day and drinking beer." Florida. 
With this concept in mind, Len· •several educational and recrea· Leonard, a sophomore at Notre non and members of the local tiona! trips, including snorkling ex· Dame, encouraged students to take alumni clubs in Florida spoke with peditions, planned trips to the advantage of the Hospitality Center, the Ft. Lauderdale Chamber ofCom· Everglades and exhibition baseball saying, "The alumni are putting merce in Sept., 1983. After securing games, and shopping excursions. themselves out and it should really permission form the Chamber of •a Student Union/Alumni Associa­be a fun trip ifstudents make use of Commerce, Lennon and his staff tion party at the Sheraton Yankee the van and the information and began to develop the program ofac­Trader motel as well as Shenanigans services available. It's there for their tivities which proved highly suc­concerts throughout the week. own use." cessful in 1984, its incipient year. •a Mass before departure on Satur· Lennon added that student 
All of the services provided last day eveni~g with refreshments for response to the alumni participation year by the Alumni Hospitality Cen­the return trip provided afterward. in the traditional student event was ter, as it is called, were designed, "almost overwhelmingly favorable. Lennon said, "to provide the stu· Out of the 750 students who made dents with an Ombudsman-type or· use of our services, only two had ganization to which they could look negative comments. Ifwe weren't
We wanted to give 
'' 
for any information, and a location wanted, we wouldn't be going 
to come to ifthey wanted to get out the students an back." 
of the sun or meet other students 
alternative to laying
from South Bend." Lennon also noted that the 
Among the services sponsored by around on the beach response of Ft. Lauderdale residents the center was the provision of a to the program was "very positive. Watts line. open from 8:00a.m. until all day and drinking We received coverage in several 
9:00 p.m. each day, from which local newspapers and were invited
beer. " 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu· back by everyone we came in con· dents made 2,200 free phone calls in tact with. There were no instances 8 days. Costs for the Hospitality Center's of obnoxious or out-of-line behav­
services ran an estimated S5,000 last ior." 
"We got the Notre Dame/Saint year, of which about $3,000 was This year, students will have an Mary's alumni residents ofFlorida to donated by the national Coca-Cola opportunity to evaluate the program staff the center and they reported company. upon their return to Notre Dame that there was no time that the "I wrote to them submitting a pro· and Saint Mary's, because "the phone was not empty from 8 a.m. posal for them to sponsor the Alumni Club really wants to do until 9 each night," Lennon com· Shenanigans group last year, and everything it can to ensure a good mented. they really picked up on the idea. time for all the students involved in 
Other Hospitality Center pro· They provided us with 90 cases of the trip. to Florida," Lennon said. 
With Spring break just around taster in the summer than in the the corner, students planning to winter; faster at noon than in the spend it in the Sunbelt are morning or late afternoon; faster already thinking about the real on a mountain or on the beach; purpose of traveling South · get· and faster in southern Florida or ting that deep, dark, sexy tan. Hawaii than in New Jersey or What they usually don't consider Indiana. is that their beautiful bronze hue The skin pigment, called may have an unintended effect · melanin, is the body's major namely, skin damage. defense against ultraviolet radia· 
Some ofthe damage is immedi· tion. Melanin acts as a protective ate and obvious, such as burning, shield because it absorbs and redness and blistering. But other scatters the UV radiation. Many harmful effects from the sun are granules of melanin in the top often delayed for 20 years or layers of skin make a good, but more. This belated damage in· not perfect, shield against UV cludfS premature dryness arid rays. People with darker skin wrinkling, a yellowish discolora­produce large amounts of tion, a leathery appearance, and melanin. Little or no melanin is skin cancer. produced in skin which is very 
The part of the sun's rays that pale. tan, burn, and damage the skin Sunscreens contain chemicals are the ultraviolet, or UV rays. that act as melanin does · absorb There are two types ofultraviolet the UV radiation before it can rays that reach one's skin. The harm the skin. Some of the first type are called UV-B rays chemicals filter the burning UV·B which are the strongest between rays while most only block out the hours of 11 :00 a.m. and 3:00 the UV-A radiation. A com­
p.m. This type of radiation is the momnly used chemical in sun main cause for sunburn, screens is para-aminobenzoic prematurely aged skin, and skin acid or PABA. PABA issoluble in cancer. UV-A radiation tans skin water and tends to stain clothing. slowly, but prolonged exposure Substitutes for PABA include to these rays can also lead to skin chemicals such as Padimate 0, cancer. cinnamates, benzophenones, and 
One cannot easily escape the salicylates. ultraviolet radiation of the sun. Asunscreen's ability to protect The rays reflect off sand, so sit· skin is known as the "Sun Protec­ting under a beach umbrella only tion Factor," or SPF number. reduces the exposure by about Products usually range from a half. T-shirts, beach robes, and SPF of2 to 15. A SPF number indi· other lightweight clothing allow cates the multiple oftime it takes 20 to 30percent ofthe UV rays to for the sun to produce an effect pass through. Also, water cannot on one's skin. For example, a per­be used as a shelterfrom the sun's son who can tolerate 30 minutes UV rays; as much as half of the ofsun would be protected for 60 sun's UV radiation can reach the minutes with a SPF 2 sunscreen submerged parts ofthe body. and for 4 hours with a SPF 8 
The more intense the sunlight, · sunscreen. Sunscreens with a SPF the stronger the ultraviolet radia· tion. That's why one burns much 
see SUN page 9 
L______________________________ ----­

---~-­
Accent 
What is your idea ofthe perfect Spring Break? 
Shelli Canfield features staff writer  
"A trip to Aculpulco with 2'5 close friends, and a break that lao;ts two weeks instead ofone." Aimee Storln  
"The French Riviera' And no work to do and lots of money." Mary Connolly  
"A beautiful tropical island with great dance clubs at night, and everyone speaks French, with a man and money. Oh, and tennis and horses to ride on the beach." Posie Strenz  
"Home in Palm Beach County, f-lorida, in the sun and the heat and sailing." Kevin Sandberg  
"Skiing in Wyoming." Marla Murphy  Jackson  Hole,  
"Exploring the Greek Islands-the ruins." Mike Burne«  
"Going back to Hawaii!" Ray Carter  
"I'd clone myself -one of me would sleep nine days straight, and the other one would vacation in Australia-to get the most out ofit." John Florey  
"A week in Vail-which is where I'll be." Tom Dal'iaSO  
r r r r  "For Boston to be sunny for a change. They'd have to change the drinking age to 19. The bars would have to bt· crazed, packed with beau­tiful girls-all on break." Chad McGraw "Nebrao;ka." Greg Tjaden  
r r r r r  "A ski trip up in the Buggaboos in Canada. I'd have my own chalet, with a nice female friend along. And mountain climbing." Charles Faust  
r r  "To take the MCAT earlier, if at all. And get my acceptance to med school early, so I can go to f-lorida and get a tan. But I'd rather go on a cruise to the Greek islands." Fifi Paraisl  
"To be in Puerto Rico, lying down all the lime, with booze and a girl." Glenn Trautmann  
"A two-week cruise of the Car­ribean, with a casino on the boat, and unlimited money to spend, and it stops at a bunch of tropical ports throughout lhe Carribean." Jim MacDonald  
"An all-expense paid trip to Las Vegas and J500 spending money. (I'd win.)" JimDempsey  
"I'd go to Southern California. I'd go see the Lakers (win), sit in on some game shows, see Carson, go to the beach..." Mike Mlzerak  
"Beer, beach, Meyers, Florida." Greg Hagen  and  sun  -Fort  
r  

"Going to Hawaii, drinking pina coladas, and listening to Led Zep­pelin on the beach." Tim Dietz 
"To go back to San Diego." BillJolley 
"Taking the guy of my choice-I don't have to name names-to South Padre Island." Sharon Emmite 
"A job offer. I'm graduating this spring." Debbie Hill 
"What I'm doing-going to Sanibel Island for a tan, with the Senior Bar staff." Mary Hanzel 
"Going skiing out west." Dave Helmer 
"A trip to the Bahamas." Kellle Dovich 
"Hawaii. Lay on the beach, drink Mai Tais for eight days in a row." Bob Cox 
"Go to Europe, relax for a week. I've had a tough semester so far." Lou lannomorelll 
"Follow the Grateful Dead around the country." Joseph Hudock 
"A week in Florida with great wea­ther and absolutely no school work." Bill Stoll 
"Anywhere but South Bend!" Ginnyles 
"Just layin' on the beach with a pina colada." Muffin Dodd 
"Spending a week on St. John in the Virgin Islands with Joanne. Just sun and fun, and to be able to relax. And to get darker, and have a few ex­otic drinks on the beach." Allen Pinkett 
The Observer/Lev Chapelsky The Observer/Lev Chapelsky 
Above:R.J. Haggerty soaks up some golden rays with his beach essentials-a blanket and a jam box. Left: Rob Shurmer practices his tanning technique in infront ofSt. Mary's Lake, last weekend. Below: The roaring ocean beckons many students to take an extended study break and to havefun in the sun. 
Students enchanted with kingdont's offer 
Special to The Observer state 4 in the middle of the state. 
The admission ticket includes 
Forget Scrooge McDuck! unlimited use of all the attrac­Mickey Mouse has the right an­tions in the theme park attended. swer for vacationing college stu­Thrill rides such as Space Moun­dents -a price break for Spring tain and Big Thunder Mountain Break on Walt Disney World ad­in the Magic Kingdom, the 3 -D missions. "MagicJourneys" film and Ameri­
Through March 31, ~ollege can Adventure show in Epcot students receive a S 3 discount on Center, can be enjoyed over and admission to the Magic Kirigdom over again. and Epcot Center by presenting The famous Magic Kingdom their student !D's. Students just features 45 attractions plus live ask for the Disney Break '85 stage shows and appearances by ticket and plunk down 515. Regu­all the Disney characters. Epcot lar admission price is Sl8. Each Center focuses on the achieve­ticket is good for admission to ments of technology in Future one ofthe parks but not both. World and international cultures 
The Walt Disney World resort of the ten nations of World community is conveniently lo­Showcase. cated to the beaches of both the For additional information, Atlantic and Gulf Coasts. There's call: ( 305) 824-4321. Or write: easy access with the exits to the Guest Information, P.O. Box 40, parks located directly offofInter-Lake Buena Vista, FL 32830. 

Wednesday, March 13,1985-page8-9 

AndySaal 
features staff writer 
Are you confused? Are you uncer­tain ofwhat to do this spring break ? like most people, you have probably considered a trip to Ft. Lauderdale. But then you saw the price of that great trip. So, are you really going home to the Midwest and trying to suntan ? Such a punishment should not be allowed just because offinan­cial problems. 
I 
That is why my friends and I founded our own travel agency. We at Second Class University Diver­sions (SCUD) believe that money should not be a deciding factor when a student plans a vacation. Our travel agt"ncy offers premier trips to impoverished college students at extraordinary savings. 
Consider our competitions' 
prices : S299 for a bus ride and a room in Florida. Another certain bus conglomerate wants S99 just for the roundtrip. SCUD offers the lowest rates of all to the Sunshine State. Why pay for the extra frills ofa Grey­
hound bus ? SCUD offers no­nonsense dicount trips to Florida for only Sl5! 
Yes, yes, for only Sl5 you too can be in Florida with your friends. Your no-frills trip there begins at the South Bend railroad yard aboard a 1984 deluxe Super-Veggie refrigerated boxcar. Remember to dress warmly and pack a lunch be­cause the trip is nonstop all the way to Florida. Then after a pleasant twenty-six hour trip, you will arrive 
SUN 
continued from page 7 
of I 5 or more filter out so much radiation that they are almost com­plete sunblocks. 
Sunscreen labels usually give di· rections such as "Reapply often, especially after swimming or exer­cise." The benefits of a water­resistant sunscreen are quite obvious. Water is not a protection from the ultraviolet rays of the sun. People who have a very fair com­plexion risk burning while they swim without a sunscreen. Con­sumer Reports tested 19 water­resistant sunscreens to see if they held up to their claim. The results of the test show that six sunscreens · four whose labels claim to be water­resistant and two that didn't · were highly water-resistant. The winners included: Mmm! What a tan!, Alo Sun Fashion Tan. Sundown, Coppertone 
in beautiful, sunny Florida. Granted, you will be in the middle of a busy freight yard, but Fort Lauderdale is only a short six mile hike down the road. 
Accomodations? Well, we did not promise you everything for S 1 5. But, for a small additional fee, SCUD can book you into a prime hotel in the heart ofthe action. For only S 2 3, you can live in the lap ofluxury for a week.! Avoid the hassles, noise, and anarchy of downtown Fort Lauderdale. Stay with us in the beau­tiful, secluded Okefenokee Swamp Inn. Enjoy that great dank atmo­sphere which inspired the Seminole Indian wars in the 1800's. 
The national park rangers say that there has not been an alligator attack in weeks, so bring your swimsuit ! The rangers will also be offering mosquito selfdefense courses at no extra charge. Avoid the expensive commercialism of Fort Lauderdale. Let SCUD arrange for you an unfor­getable vacation. Experience the real Florida that Ponce de Leon ex­plored! 
Avoid the high costs of Florida altogether. This spring break be unique, be creative ! SCUD is offer­ing six days and no nights in the Land of the Midnight Sun. Spend your vacation in beautiful, scenic Alaska ! For only S26 you get to travel by dogsled, hunt whales, eat blubber, and live in an igloo. This genuine 
Shade Plus,Jovan Dial-a-Tan, andEs­tee Lauder Invisible Sun Control. 
Melanin and sunscreens block out some of the sun's harmful rays, but they don't protect one from skin damage. Damage from the sun is cumulative. Over the years, ultraviolet radiation damages the elastin fibers in the skin, allowing it to sag and wrinkle. Moisturizers and lotions may temporarily improve the appearance of the skin, but the damage is irreversible. Prematurely aged skin may not be very attractive, but it doesn't endanger your health. Although, long-term overexposure to the sun causes skin cancer, the most common form ofcancer in the United States. 
There are three types of skin can­cer. Two of the three types of skin cancer · basal cell and squamous-cell carcinomas have been linked to the exposure of the sun. Fortunately, these types of skin cancer are easily detected and are the most success-cultural experience is guaranteed to be fun for all. 
Looking for something more temperate this year ?Why not spend this spring break in exotic Cleveland ? Take your own private urban plunge in this former industrial boom town. Visit the Buckeye State's closed steel mills and idle car plants. Then travel to the shores of 
beautiful Lake Erie to see the ice beginning to break up. For you beach bums, surfing lessons will be offered at no additional charge. This truly American heartland experi­ence is a steal at only 521 ! 
Are you looking for a really cheap vacation this spring break ? Why not take that great suburban plunge ? Experience a week of Hoosier pride, fun, and excitement in colorful Elkhart, Indiana! For only 
$7, you can stay in the comfort of Fred's Motor Lodge, located in the heart of the town's nightlife. Enjoy shopping extravaganzas at the massive Elkhart MalL Tour the high· tech mobile home factories which built the city. Relax on the banks of the scenic St. Joseph River. And then when the sun sets, head out into the wild nightlife of Elkhart. 
So, if you are tired of paying high prices for trips, come to us. We are Second Class University Diversions, the low-budget travel specialists. Why pay for unnecessary frills when vacationing ? Go second class, go cheap ! Let the professionals at SCUD plan your next spring break vacation. 
fully treated of all cancers. Accor­ding to the National Cancer Institute, more than 300,000 cases ofthese two types ofcancer occur in the United States each year. The third type of skin cancer, malignant melanoma, is much rarer but more serious. There are as few as 9,000 cases a year, but it has a 40 to 50 per­cent fatality rate. Evidence linking malignant melanoma to sun expo­sure is weak, but many experts believe that there may be a connec­tion. 
The sun's ultraviolet rays cause skin damage and skin cancer. Unfor­tunately, even with this evidence before them, many students will continue to covet a beautiful tan over spring break. If you are one of these people, remember that today's healthy glow may have some very unhealthy effects in the future. Do yourself and your skin a favor, limit the number of hours in the sun and always, always wear a sunscreen. 
It's always been the place to vacation 
Marc Ramirez 
features staff writer 
Some things never change, and one ofthem is that for every article leading off with that cliche in one year there is a lake in Minnesota. I have secretly decided that I am going to seek out the author of the next article I see with that lead and when I find him I am going to stick his IBM Selectric where photosynthesis does not occur. 
But I digress. 
Another thing throughout America's short history which has not 
changed, but something ofwhich few are aware, is the annual obses­
sion with making the trip to the sunny climate ofthe Evergreen State 
for spring break. Ponce de Leon started the fad in the spring of 1513 
when he sported his shades, splashed on some Coppertone and went 
wandering around the new land looking for the fabled "Fountain of 
Youth." He never found it, but he did get a pretty good tan, and he 
couldn't complain about that. 
The native Indians finally chased him off, understandably per­turbed that not only was this man trespassing on their property, but his light skin also clashed with their dark-colored decor which had taken years to perfect. As he sailed off threatening to complain to the Florida Chamber of Commerce, the Indians yelled obscenities at him, and that is how the particular stretch ofsurfhe cast off ofcame to be known as Some Beach. 
But then Alonso Alvarez de Pineda decided to check out the spring break action in 1519, and he returned toJamaica with tales of awesome women and plentiful souvenir shops. A year later Lucas Vasquez de Ayllon came by and took some Indians away as souvenirs, and it was at this inopportune juncture that Ponce de Leon elected to return to see if the Indians were any more hospitable. 
His was one of the poorer of spring break experiences · drinking age was raised to one year more than de Leon's age, and guided tours were suspended for the duration of his visit. On top of that, he was attacked by a gang of juvenile Indians before he left, and died upon arriving in Cuba. He also made the mistake oftaking his wife along on the second visit, and as they left this time, the insults hurled by the Indians toward her gave rise to the name ofa second strip ofland, Yo Beach. 
In 1776 it was a spring break trip to Ft. Lauderdale which prompted the forefathers to declare America's independence. By the time the group had hit all the oceanside hot spots, Benjamin Franklin was making angels in the sand and John Hancock was demanding that they visit Disney World before heading back. It was then that John Jay realized the commercial potential of Florida and said, hey guys, if we want dibs on tl1is place we'd better declare indepen· dence. So ~he Declaration was drawn up, andJohn Hancock was still in the hangover stage when he penned his name. The now-famous site where this event occurred has come to be known as Indepen­dence Bay. 
When Winfield Scott walked along the beach near Miami in 1849, he was so thoroughly unimpressed with the area that he called that stretch the Boredwalk, but there was one bit of land which thrilled him to no end, and he called it Daytona Beach. Daytona is an ancient Peruvi~n word meaning "many scantily-clad women sunning them­selves as far as the eye can see," and Scott, always one for precise description, selected the word without hesitation. 
Itwas the Plains Indians whose students first relished the concept 
ofspring break in Florida. After taking midterms in Tomahawk Head 
Carving, Intermediate Hunting and the notorious Advanced Basket 
Weaving, undergrads at Algonquin University and Chippewa Tech 
were primed for the fun and frolic that Florida had to offer. 
Students without transportation could always get a Rent-A-Horse 
for a reasonable rate, and planned their trips weeks in advance. Two 
months were allotted for Algonquin's spring break, in order to ac­
commodate for the lenghty journey. 
Students would then trek to Florida by the hundreds, attracted by 
posters bearing bikini-clad squaws in seductive poses, lured by colo­
ful ads sponsored by peyote distributors, and every once in a while 
causing major traffic congestion on Biggum Road, the passageway to 
the Atlantic. 
The time's major tragedy was the 51-horse smash-up on a road 
adjacent to the shoreline, an accident survived by the famous Chip· 
pewa poet Running Mouth, whose newlywed bride, Iiza, did not 
survive the disaster. This unfortunate incident inspired Running 
Mouth to pen a verse dedicated to the memory ofhis beloved wife, 
and forever lending name to the shoreline where the accident took 
place· "Iiza Beach (and then you die)." 
Then, in the 1920's, Florida may not have been the site ofthe Birth 
of Jazz, but an equally significant event was taking place on the 
shores ofsunshine · the Birth of Movies Filmed in Florida. The 1927 
classic "Fins" was first among these, followed by a slew offilms cul­
minating in the Burt Reynolds Era ofthe 1970's and the Spring Break 
movies ofthe 1980's. 
So lest you mistakenly consider yourselves part ofa modern trend, be forewarned: you are not the first to make the great escape to the beaches, nor shall you be the last. Don't be surprised if, scrawled on a bathroom wall in one ofthe many bars down there, you see "Thoma'i Jefferson was here" or "For a good time, call Trotting Bear-(219) Algon 46." 
View~_O_l_·_n_t_________
w_ed-ne-sd-ay_,M-ar-ch_1_3,_19-85_p_ag_e_lo 
What Cuomo did before he became famous 
In every individual there comes a point when enough is enough. I have simply had it with this University's adulation of New York State Governor Mario Cuomo. Ever since his visit, many people have been desperately trying to outdo each other in their attempts to heap praise on this gentleman. I submit, however, that you Cuomo supporters who think he is the greatest thing to come along 
Edward J. Sheeran guest column 
since sliced bread might think differently if 
you knew more about him. 
No, don't put the paper down yet. I'm not going to ramble on about abortion, homosexuality, and birth control. Those sub­jects have already been ~overed in exhaustive detail. Instead of nitpicking among the fine points of idealistic platitudes, I'm going to tell you about the Mario Cuomo that you non­New Yorkers do not see. This is because I choose to form my opinions about the man ba..o;ed upon his actions rather than his words ­a hardly unfair judgement, in my opinion. 
In November of 1976,·while Cuomo was lieutenant governor of New York, Governor Hugh Carey; issued Executive Order 42 in regard to Onondaga County, the county in which I reside:. This order provided for the ap­pointment of a Special Prosecutor to investi­gate allegations ofpolitical corruption in both the Republican and Democratic parties. Republicans naturally became wary, for the new attorney general, Carey, Cuomo, and the Special Prosecutor, were all Democrats. Nevertheless, the Republican-controlled State 
Senate agreed to provide funding for thls in­
vestigation for a period of one year to see in 
which direction it would go. As lieutenant 
governor and therefore head of the Senate, 
Cuomo lobbied hard for his boss's measure 
and should be given the credit (or blame) for 
its passage. 
The Republicans soon regretted their ac­
tion. After nine months of comprehensive in­
vestigation, the Extraordinary Grand Jury 
commissioned to hear testimony issued in­
dictments against three mid-level Republican 
county officials for a variety of felonies and 
misdemeanors, including grand larceny, 
bribery, extortion, and coercion. The bulk of 
the charges, however, accused the defendants 
of selling political fund raising tickets in a 
public office building in order to benefit the 
Republican party. This latter charge was a 
rather curious one, for it was ba..o;ed on an 
obscure 1897 statue of the New York State 
Civil Service Law which prohibits such con­
duct. Naturally, the defendants cried foul, 
claiming that they had no reason to believe 
that such conduct was illegal, and that they 
were being selectively prosecuted since that 
kind of fund raising was a common practice 
nationwide among Democrats as well as 
Republicans. The judge presiding over the 
case disagreed and denied their pre-trial mo­
tions. 
Meanwhile, the State Senate, angered over the focus of the probe refused to allocate any more money for it. Normally, this would have killed the investigation right there, for it could not be legally continued without having been provided sufficient funds. But Carey, Cuomo, and Attorney General Robert Abrams had other ideas -they circumvented the state legislature and appealed to the federal govern­ment, using the now defunct LEAA (Law En­
forcement Assistance Administration) as 
another vehicle for breathing new life into the 
probe. For the next 6 years, federal tax dollars 
-yours as well as mine -were funneled to my 
home county to continue the prosecution of 
individuals who for the most part were being 
simply charged with offering tickets for sale in 
their offices for clambakes, cocktail parties, 
and dinners to raise money for their party of 
preference. If one evaluates the entire course 
of the investigation, it is worth noting that al­
most every single one of these individuals 
were Republicans, and that these indictiments 
were taking place while tickets were being 
sold in Albany County office buildings to raise 
money for the Carey-Cuomo re-election bid 
of 1978 and the Cuomo-Delbello ticket in 
1982. 
You're probably wondering what happened to the individuals who were indicted originally. I cannot speak for the others, (one ofwhom was acquitted and one ofwhom pled guilt}' to selling tickets so as not to have to face a trial) but I can speak for one gentleman in whose case I took a special interest. He was charged with 134 counts of criminal wrongdoing, and after what was then the longest trial in county history, ( ll weeks) he wa..'> acquitted of all felonies and serious mis­demeanors, and convicted on 25 counts ofof­fering political fund-raising tickets for sale in a county office building, a fact that he had ad­mitted from the first day of the trial. He was also convicted on one count of official mis­conduct for having sold the tickets from his office. He was fined S2,700 for his transgres­sions. That's it. No jail term. No loss of job. Nothing else. Except legal fees which ap­proached $75,000. 
So, Father Hesburgh and Father McBrien, you'll pardon me if I see red when I hear Governor Cuomo speak about such concepts as "moral standards" "public morality" and "right and wrong." I can never have: respect for a man who, while allowing his fellow Democrats to receive thousands of dollars of campaign money from illegally solicited employees, helped bring about a chain of events that saddled my father with an in­erasable debt and a criminal record for the 
rest ofhis life. 
Edward]. Sheeran is a senior gor,ernment major at Notre Dame who will be attending law school at Notre Dame next semester. 
Policy 
Viewpoint would like to bear from you. If you would like to respond to something you'11e read in The Observer, why not write a letter to the editor. Let­ters should be well-written, typed, no more tbmi 250 words in length and must bear the signature of the author. Letters which are not signed by the au­thor will not be published. ­
But letters are not the only way to 
voice your opinion in The Observer, 
Viewpoint also accepts guest columns. 
Guest columns should be well-written, 
typed, no more than 500 words in length 
and must bear the signature ofthe au­
thor. A guest column, unlike letter to the 
editor, should not bea direct response to another editorial. 
The Observer reserr1es the right to edit all material submitted to the Viewpoint departmentforpublication. 
Father Capodanno gave soldiers the gift of love 
In response to some previous written asser­tions that honoring war veterans through celebration tends to propogate war, I would like to relatt· the following true story ofa hero 
whose legacy is quite antithetical to the fic­titious, celluloid figures that were cited as hel­ping to perpt·tuate war. 
During 1966, Father Vincent Capodanno, a Maryknoll missionary, was a..~igned to serve as a Navy chaplain with the First Marine Divi-
Karl Baldwin 
guest column 
sion while that unit was stationed in South 
Vietnam. Father Vincent distinguished himself 
among the chaplains and the men with whom 
he served by his selfless devotion to the pa..~­
toral care of troops in the field. lbough he 
could have remained comfortably behind the 
front lines and offered pastoral services only 
at safe and infrequent intervals, Father Vince 
moved in the thick of conflicts offerring con­
solation, care, and the sacraments to those 
who were apprehensive and sometimes afraid 
that the next moment would be the last. His 
vision seemed to pierce through the thick 
moral and political web that was the Vietnam 
of the 1960s to see the spiritual need of those 
who through circumstances or choice were there, often without knowing why. 
In his constant ministry, he provided op­portunities for worship and reconciliation un­der the most trying conditions. In the absence of an altar, he celebrated Mass on stacked 
crates, a crude field table, or in a barricaded 
bunker. He heard confessions when the 
penitent had to yell to make himself heard 
over incoming mortar fire, and he made him­
self available for counsel both day and night 
with no thought for the sleep he lost. There 
was no pretension or cynicism in his manner 
for he was openly responding to the spiritual 
needs of his comrades. For Chaplain 
Capodanno, Christian love found expression 
through service. 
When his initial tour ofduty was finished in 
April, 1967, he willingly chose to remain 
among the men of the First Division even 
though that would mean more dangers and 
privations. As a Maryknoll missionary. he: felt 
this field of mission to be his calling, even 
thougTt it was a battlefield. 
On September 4, 1967, during heavy fight­ing, Father Vince, then 38, was killed by Viet Cong gunfire as he ministered to Marines wounded during the attack. Thousands of men in the division keenly felt the loss of this dedicated priest. His death certainly reflected John Donne's statement that "when any man dies, his death means <:lying for everyone else", and posthumously he was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor, America's most distinguished tribute given only for ser­vice that far surpasses the ordinary demands ofduty. 
Father Vicent Capodanno is a hero, a vet­eran, and certainly worthy of admiration. He also did not carry any weapons of war during his service in Vietnam; rather, he carried a measure of hope to those dying in the undig­nified simplicity of the battlefield. He hated war, as did the men with whom he served, but in responding to the crying needs of individ­uals he ultimately seemed to fulfill the words of Christ concerning the greatest of loves: "There is no greater love than this: to lay down one's life for one's friends." (John IS:l3) 
May I suggest to those who gather their images ofwar from "The Sands oflwo)ima" or "Apocalypse Now" that they look far beyond those fantasized Hollywood fabrications to the very lives of the people affected by war. There the statistics become historical realities which bespeak both the dreadful conse­quences ofwar and the valor ofpeople such as Father Vincent who choose to face it. • 
Perhaps the em·pathy and moral courage 
which inspired him could be expressed through a poem written by Dr. Thoma!> Dooley, a Notre Dame graduate deeply at~ fected by the plight of the people of Vietnam. For him, as for Vincent Capodanno, authentic love consisted in sharing fully the fate of an­other, even if poverty, disease or death came as a result. That type of sharing, in God's lan­guage, is part of the message of the Incarna­
tion. 
Karl Baldwin is a graduate student in theology at Notre Dame who serr,ed as a Marine in Vietnam during the 1975 e!'acua­tions ofAmericans and refugees. 
Until I Share ... 
Listen to the agony of mankind. I who am fed, who never yet went hungry for a day, I see the dead,the children starved for lack of bread. 
I see and try to pray. 
Listen to the agony of mankind. I who am warm, who never yet lacked a sheltering home, In dull alarm, the dispossessed of hut and farm 
Aimless and transient roam. 
Listen to the agony of mankind. I who am strong with health and love, and laughter in my soul I see a throng of children reared in wrong 
And wish to make them whole. 
Listen to the agony of mankind. And know full well ... that not until I share their bitter cry Their pain and hell, can God within my spirit dwell 
And bring America's blessing nigh. _ Tom Dooley 
. The .Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edllor-tn Chtef. Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . . ..... Dave Ta1clet Managtng Editor . . . Mark Worscheh Controller . . .. Dave Stephenitch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Edttor ... . .. Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager. . .. Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor Dan McCullough Ctrculation Manager Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of e1ther inst1tution. The news is reported as Satnt Mary's Editor Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager .. Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opin1on Sports Editor. . M1chael Sullivan Production Manager Chris Bowler of a ma)ority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Viewpoint Editor . Dave Grote Project Manager . Amy Stephan present the v1ews of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the Features Editor . Mary Healy community, and the free expreSSIOn of vary1ng opinions on campus. through letters. Photo Edttor. Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 1s encouraged. 
--~ 
VieWP.Oint Wednesday, March 13, 1985-page 11 
Invading a tiny island was a tragic waste of lives 
In October 1983, U.S. troops successfully invaded the island of Grenada, meeting only limited Grenadan and Cuban resistance. In the aftermath of the invasion, members of the Reagan administration and various other 
people proclaimed that the successful inva­sion freed Grenadans from communist tyranny, eliminated a possible threat to U.S. shipping (military and commercial) in the 
Ben Donovan 
guest column 
region, and protected the lives ofAmerica stu­dents on the island. The American public gen­erally approved ofthe action and accepted the President's reasoning. Unfortunately, these reasons for the invasion simply do not hold up after a closer examination of the facts. The President deceived the public, and unfortun­ately, the public took his explanation without much questioning. 
While protecting American lives is an im­portant function of the government, the facts suggest that this was not the reason for the invasion. At the time, people in the U.S. gov­ernment were quite uncertain about what was actually going on in Grenada. Among the stu­dents themselves there is considerable dis­
agreement about the danger with which they were confronted. Some felt they were in dan­ger, while others did not feel threatened at all. The fact that 30,000 Grenadans (out of a total ofapproximately 100,000) were in the streets protesting the overthrow of Maurice Bishop would seem to indicate that the succeeding government (the one in power at the time of 
P.O.BoxQ 
Marine defends Army's right to train at ND 
Dear Editor: 
Since it took an Army man to explain the 
Marine Corps' landing on Iwo Jlma, I as a 
Marine will defend the Army's right to train on 
Campus. On March 6, Fausto Nolasco com­
plained that he had to endure Army troops 
humiliating him by carrying rifles on campus. 
I fail to understand this perspective. 
These Cadets are training to defend a nation 
where people like Nolasco are free to speak 
out as they please and to worship as their per­
sonal beliefs dictate. I am proud of our 
country's freedoms and will defend them 
along with Nolasco's freedom ofspeech. 
People should speak their minds and 
protest what they think is wrong, in either uni­
versity or national affairs. But in doing so, ~ey 
should keep in mind that many have died and 
many will die so that their right to protest con­
tinues. One should feel not humiliation, but 
security. 
Michael Retner Cavanaugh Hall 
Holds hope for role of 
Catholic women today 
Dear Editor: 
I think one could hope that the United 
States Catholic Bishops' forthcoming Pastoral 
Letter on the subject of "Women in the 
Church" might be helpful in overcoming 
"institutional sexism." Ann Pettifer would ask 
also for an acknowledgment from the bishops 
of"complicity" in the injustices women expe­
rience. While myself not a bishop, I do hold 
office in the Church, and I can confess that 
"we" are all sinful. I do not think, however, 
women want so much an apology, as a reform 
of injustices where they are established. 
Rarely is behavior intentionally hostile to wo­
men, the problem is one of ancient traditions 
that must change. The Catholic church 
changes slowly, it turns about as quickly as 
one could expect an Aircraft Carrier to shift its 
course. Momentum carries the day so often, 
and the full participation of women in the 
Church has not been on the agenda for many 
years. Of course, it should have been. Paul 
should have done more for the cause of wo­
men, though Paul, who is mentioned in the 
column as hostile to women, remains also a 
remarkable friend to women, given all the 
limitations ofhis time an~ place. 
the invasion) was not going to last Lo'll.g. Besides, if the U.S. were to intervene militarily every time American lives were threatened, we would find ourselves engaged almost con­tinually around the world. 
The President and the public seem confused or misinformed (or both) about Marxists, Communists, and the Domino The­ory. The Domino Theory was shown to be in­valid after our involvement in Southeast Asia. That area, to the surprise of many Cold War theorists, did not fall to the tidal wave ofCom­munism (though some nations did turn Com­munist). How a communist juggernaut could roll out ofan Island of 100,000 has never been 
explained to me. On a strictly technical level, the President rolls Marxists and Communists into one big ball. Marxists·are those who ad­here to the teachings of Karl Marx, while Communists are members of the Communist International. Maurice Bishop and his imme­diate successors were Marxists, but they were not Communists. Communists are, generally speaking, Marxists, but the opposite is not necessarily true. 
The suggestion that the invasion eliminated a possible threat to U.S. shipping is absurd. There are only two ways Grenada could pos­sibly interfere with American shipping: with a navy or with an airforce. At the time of the invasion, Grenada had neither. Grenada was building an airstrip with Cuban help. Perhaps this was to be a military runway, perhaps not. No one really seems to know for sure. The fact that the runway, begun by Cubans and com­pleted after the invasion, is now the focal point of the Ronald Reagan International Air­port suggests that the airstrip could have been used for civilian purposes. Certainly, if the Grenedans had attempted to obtain advanced military aircraft, the U.S. would have been jus­
tified in destroying the airfield. But we did not wait to see if this was going to happen. An even longer runway was being built on Mar­tinique, but that did not seem to bother anyone in the Reagan administration. Maybe they just don't like Cuban runways. 
The idea of Grenada interfering with U.S. trade or, in the event of a European war, European resupply, is preposterous for an­other reason. Any attack on another nation's shipping in neutral waters is an act ofwar and would provide ample reason to destroy the offender. I am sure most, if not all heads of state and their military advisors are aware of this. It seems extremely unlikely that Grenadan leaders would dare interfere with the shipping of the most powerful nation on the globe. Doing so would in effect be com­mitting national suicide. How many nations wold commit national hari-kiri to help an­other nation thousands ofmiles away? 
Lastly, the claim that the invasion was launched to free people (from Communism in this case) seems rather empty when one looks at some of the nations the U.S. supports in the Caribbean and in Latin America. The nation invades Grenada and chastises left wing Nicaragua's brutality while at the same time . giving military aid to Guatemala, one of the worst human rights abusers this hemisphere has ever seen, and El Salvador, whose military and paramilitary forces have murdered ap­proximately 45,000 citizens in the past five years. Personally I see little difference be­tween being slaughtered by a right wing dic­tatorship or by a left wing dictatorship. 
Why then, did the U.S. invade Grenada? There are, in my opinion, two major reasons. First, a quick and easy victory looked good. The Reagan administration got a feather in its cap. It put forth some evidence, however 
The Sudanese custom of infibulation that is also mentioned in her column will distress anyone. lf one reads Mary Dale's "Gynecology," no one will want to deny the horrendous abuse of young men in wartime throughout the history of the world. Terrible things go on, against women 'and sometimes against men. I have no stomach for keeping score, and no cause to dispute anyone else's pain. 
John Fedders, who is the third argument in 
the column, does not represent men's normal 
treatment of their wives. Most men love their 
wh:es, as most wives love their husbands. 
Some husbands abuse their wives; some wives 
abuse their husbands. Husbands are more 
likely to use physical abuse. Reprehensible, 
sometimes criminal, and always deplorable, 
not much hope comes from such troublesome 
behavior. 
Finally, I want to return to the bishops and why I am hopeful. I quote from Vatican Coun­cil II: The Church " receives a variety ofhelps from persons ofevery rank and condition. For whoever promotes the human community at the family level, culturally, in its economic, so­cial, and political dimensions, both nationally and internationally, such a one, according to God's design, is contributing greatly to the Church community as well, to the extent that it depends on things outside itself. Indeed, the Church admits that she has greatly profited and still profits from the antagonism of those who oppose or persecute her." (Guadium et Spes: Part One. Chapter Four) 
Surely that gives reason for hope that the 
forthcoming pastoral letter might learn from 
everyone, friend and foe. And, while I am 
mildly critical ofPettifer, I do not count her as 
a foe. Nor do I mean to say with friends like 
this, who needs enemies? Women have a just 
complaint that must be heard in the Church. 
Father Nicholas A yo Program ofLiberal Studies 
Drunk driving is not at all welcomed in Florida 
Dear Editor: 
Spring Break is almost here and we hope many college students will come to Florida for well-earned vacations. We hope they will un­wind on our beaches, try boardsailing if they haven't already, get great tans and return safely. 
But we appeal to students not to come to Florida to drink and drive. Drugged and drunken driving have caused too many need­less tragedies in our communities. Drugged and drunken drivers are not welcome. 
We are parents and we look forward to col­
lege students being here because we share 
. their love ofgood times even as we remember our own sons and daughters, victims of drunken driving, who will never again be part ofSpring Break. 
Beckie Brown, President Florida Mothers AgainstDrunk Driving 
Premature to question Prof. Rice's motives 
Dear Editor: 
The question is not whether Dr. Rice serves the best interest of campus, but what is in­volved is the crucial issue ofhis concern over the value of human life. Those in the pro-life movement know that commitments are many: supporting a human life bill, picketing, and en­tering the courts to overturn the Supreme Court's decision. Dr. Rice is certainly qualified in these areas. 
Despite apparent misgivings, I feel that it is premature to call question to his motives. Rather, I propose that Notre Dame encourage his efforts to untangle the proper motifand to efficaciously defend it. 
Paul F. Kwiatkowski Notre Dame graduate student 
Sports reporters should be fair to all halls 
Dear Editor: 
Congratulations on the quality, impartial reporting of Jerry Melia in his article, "Morrissey Gains Revenge over Grace in In­terhall." In this world of petty jealousy and prejudice, it was truly a pleasure to read prose devoid of meaningless, unsubstantiated claims. His blatantly false report of the two­point differentials during the regular season games in no way reveals his belief that jour­nalistic facts can be compromised in order to strike the chords ofhis defeat-injured heart. In addition his sappy concluding remark that Morrissey's basketball team was "lucky not to fall victim to the valiant efforts of this come­from-nowhere Grace squad" would never in­dicate that his bias lies in Grace Hall. 
We were so convinced of The Observer's strict journalistic ethical code and sense offair play that we knew that The Observer would not assign a Morrissey or Grace resident to cover the game. Surprise, surprise. Jerry Melia lives in Grace Hall. Hey, Jerry, what is your major anyway? You should major in what you do best. We suggest "yellow journalism." 
jobnZiebert Pete DelGuidice MotTtssey Hall 
questionable, that "America is back," that "America is standing tall." A quick win was needed because anything of a longer duration would have opened up the possibility of Congress demanding the withdrawal of U.S. troops under the War Powers Act. Second, and of far greater importance, the invasion was a signal to those funny little brown skinned people down there, that the U.S. will only put up with so much. Those countries can do what they want, but when they try to challenge U.S. economic and political hegemony they can expect a rough time. Grenada was an example of what reformist­minded Latin American and Caribbeans can expect if things are not to our liking. America likes its backyard underdeveloped because we stand to profit from such a state of affairs. 
While I agree that it is in our best interest to prevent the Soviets from entrenching them­selves in the Caribbean and Latin America, in­vading a tiny island of no real strategic value and no military capability seems a tragic waste ofyoung American lives. Force should be used decisively when our interests are threatened, but not to convey a threat. If security and stability in the south really are prime con­
cerns of the U.S., it would seem far better to press the states in the region for genuine eco­nomic ·and political reform, and to give sub­stantial aid to help them. develop. The United Fruit Company and other companies might lose a little money, but at least we would have neighbors to the south who did not hate us, who would probably support us and whose citizens would have the chance to enjoy some ofthe basic rights we enjoy here in the United State. 
Ben Donovan is a senior history major at Notre Dame. 
Nolasco went too far in his attack on ROTC 
Dear Editor: 
This is written in response to Fausto Nolasco's letter of March 6 regarding last Sat­urday's mission by the Army ROTC unit here at Notre Dame. Nolasco claims to have found it humilitating to see cadets carrying guns while on a Ranger mission. Ifit is merely safety that he is concerned with, he should be assured that the detachment took proper precautions in preparing the weapons in such a way that they were completely harmless, yet stiLl valuable training aids. 
However, if it is the idea ofmilitary training simulations that offended Nolasco, because he may feel that they demean the spiritual ideals ofour Catholic university, he should keep one very important point in mind. The Christian ideas of peace are not forsaken by all military personnel -we detest the consequences of war as much as anyone else. 
However, as prospective officers in the U.S. Army, we realize the responsibility ofdefend­ing this nation, by force if necessary. This re­quires extensive training, and Notre Dame Army ROTC cadets have become increasingly valuable to the Army because of the quality education we receive with our military train­ing. 
Is Nolasco suggesting that because he, as an individual, may be offended by our actions, that we should have this valuable training time curtailed or made less effective? The weapons and face paint were an integral part of a legitimate training exercise, an exercise that we deserve as part ofour military educa­tion. Considering the fact that the exercise was conducted on a remote portion of the campus, and not before 10:00 a.m., I fail to un­derstand how Nolasco can claim that we "went too far." He has a right to voice his opinion, and I respect that right. However, it is Nolasco who has gone too far by asking others to join his senseless and selfish vendetta. 
Those of us in the Army detachment have a deep sense ofpride and committment in what we do, and it would be most unfortunate ifthe shallow opinions of a few were to detrimen­tally alter the course ofmany. I therefore chal­lenge Nolasco to reevaluate his opinion in lieu of this perspective and realize that we are not violence-Loving, tobacco-spitting, unrefined Army types but normal, motivated Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and prospective officers with the best interest of this nation at heart. 
Tony Be-vi/aqua Army ROTC Cadet 
I 
Sports Briefs 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
tonight at 6:30p.m. in O'Shaughnessy room 204. ·The Observer 
A polo club is now forming. Anyone interested should attend a meeting today at 6 p.m. in the LaFortune Uttle Theatre. No horseback-riding experience is necessary. ·The Obsen•er 
A women's water polo club is now forming. Anyone interested should attend a meeting tonight at I 0 p.m. in the LaFortunt· lobby. For more information, call Marianne Bailey at 283· 38') I. ·The Obsen•er 
A scuba-diving class is being sponsored by NVA. Anyone who is interested in this six-week course should attend a meeting on Tuesday, March 26, at 6:30 p.m. in room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. ·The Obsen•er 
Wednesday, March 13, 1985 page 12 
Think you're a better refthan those in the Big Ten? Perhaps you would like to reffor Non-Varsity Athletics and the Bookstore Basketball toumament. If so, caU Mike Dunn at the NVA office ( 239-6I 00 ). Previous experience is preferred but not neces· sarily required. ·The Obsen•er 
The MS softball· tournament has been res· 
cheduled to March 26·31. Teams of five men and five women may register in the LaFortune lobby tonight from 7:30p.m. to 9:30p.m. The registration fee is S I 0, which goes to MS. The winning team will win dinner at Amigo's restaurant. For more information, call Steve at 283·104S. ·The Obsen•er · 
NVA spring sports entry deadlines are 
today. Spring events include men's interhall baseball, men's inter· hall softball, women's interhall softball, graduate men's softball, wo· men's interhall soccer, men's interhall soccer and men's interhall floor hockey. Team rosters must be registered at the NVA office for all of these events. For more information, contact the NVA office at 239·61 00. · The Obsert1er 
Skiles to play in NCAA; trial delayed 
Associated Press 
PLYMOliTH, Ind. · The drug pos· session trial of Michigan State bas· ketball player Scott Skiles has been delayed a month, clearing the way for the 6-foot·l junior guard to play in the NCAA regional toumey at Houston, Texas. 
The trial originally scheduled for March 19 in Marshall County Super· ior Court has been reset for April 16. county Prosecutor Fred R. Jones said Monday. 
The delay was granted on a mo· tion that said key defense witnesses would be out of state March 19. Skiles' attorney, Charles Scruggs, could not be reached for comment. 
J'b,. Ohs..rt•er Notr<· Daml' ottk<·. locunl on the third tloor of l.al'ortunc ~ludenl Cl'rtll'f. accqJ!s dassilkd adn·rtising from 11 ;un unlil 1 p.m. ,\lond.ll through Friday f/J<' 0/>sen•er Saint ~l:!n·'s olfi<T. localnl on the lhird tloor ol Haggar Collt'g<· <.l'nll'r, acn·pts cla"ilinb from 12:.~0 p.m. unlil ~p.m ..\ion· Ja\' though FriJa, l>l'adline h1r nl'xt·liay dd"ilinb b 5 p.m. All da"ilinb musl he prl'paid. l'illwr in person or h\' mail.< harg<· ;, 10 l'l'llh rwr fi\e durac·
Classifieds 
tt-rs t·r d.av. 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81197 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
EXPERT TYPING 277·8534 AFTER 5:30 
WOADPAOCESSING AND TYPING 272·8827 
WOADPAOCESIING 277·8045 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MAS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Word Proceaamg!T ypmg • also copymg. Call Andrea 283-3880 • 9 a.m. to 11 :00 p.m. 
TYPING Jeckle 1101111• 684-87113 
Applicauona are now bemg accepled for 1985-86 IRISH GARDENS MANAGER. Appltcalton Ierma av8llable al IG.. deadline: Wed. 3/13 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD. "THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT' IS SPONSORING A BUS TO O'HARE. The bus leaves Fnday. March 15 al 3pm lnd1ana t1me and returns Sunday, March 24 al 6 pm Chicago 11me The tnp coals $1 0 each way. Bring money lo Ihe SAB offtc!IS. 
ATIENTION all sludents Btgned up lor the SENIOR CLASS TRIP TO DAYTONA A MANDATORY meetmg Will be held 7:00 pm Thursday m the LaFortune lihle theater. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: Pendant on a S>lver cham some­where belween South Dm1ng Hall, lhe Rock. and lhe ACC Wednesday evenmg, February 13. Pendant has a rose pamted on a black background. Wlth a Sliver back­Ing. It has great sent1mental value. REWAAD:Does a pan ol btowntes and my undymg gra111ude sound good? If lound please call Karen •2145. 
lost.woman s swt.greemsh grey wool skrrt and fBCket wllh a betge blouse. lost on Fnday,Mar 2 if found please call Kelly· 232·0659 
HELP'! D1d you l1nd my KEYS? llosllhem on Sal March 2 allhe Zodtac Club parly tn St. Mary s Clubhouse There are 6 keys on a nng wtlh a gold "M on >1. If you found !hem, please call me-I really nead !hem back. Thanks• Molly •4003 
TO WHOEVER TOOK MY BOOKBAG FROM THE BOOKSTORE FRIDAY MORNING..WOULD YOU AT LEAST PUT MY NOTES AND GLASSES BACK SO I CAN READ AGAIN 
loa!: MY SKI CAP, 11 s black Wilh several whtle and grey stnpes. could be anywhere: Please call Andy at 1176 THANKS' 
!IAEWAA011 A len percent reward offered lor the return of a T1mex men's wnstwatch lost on March 1 between Keenan and Cuahtng Aud. Ae!Urn 11, make yourself leel good. and make a few bucks In lhe process Call •3327 
losi:Spaldtng Execultve PITCHING WEDGE:Iell on 131h green.REWARD of· lered.call Etik al t623 
LOST: Gold eamng between Stepan and PW Sat. mght. If you happen 10 have lound 11. please call 2958 because il wasn't mene and someone 11 gotng to be a lillie upsel Wilh me LOST: NOTRE DAME HAT IN LOBBY OF SOUTH DINING HALL CALL TIM 2543 IF YOU HAVE IT. 
FOUND: CROSS PEN AND PENCIL IN ROOM 124 NIEULANDSCIENCE BLDG. CALL TIM 2543 TO IDENTIFY. 
Found Gold Charm· Call Mary Zo al2619. 
LOST: Green camouflage wallel on Fnday. Posstbly laken from my room and discarded belween Howard Hall and Holy Cross Hall. Anyone who finds wallet or ils contents can pick up serious cash flow for break. Call Bob Madden at 2487 II found. 
found: sony walkman headphones, lell in my car by a g111 who hilched a ride wilh me up N.D. ave las! thursday. If they 8/e yours. call me al 2065 
FOUND • one room key on a melal key ring aHer mgt. 231 in Hayes· Healy rm.122. Ptck it up at lhe losl and foun<;f (rm.133). 
LOST: set of keys on leather keychain,3n. in O'Shag or Lafortune. 283·4233 if lound .. !hanks. 
LOST· gold charm bracelel al SMC Fnday. Please call Ltsa ar 284·4216. REWARD. 
WANTED 
AIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MOANING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x!745. 
ROOMMATE NEEDED: '84 grad seeks Domer roommate for 2-bdrm apt in Bir­mtngham. MI. Call272·8617 il relocallng in Detroit area 
Relatives travehng from El Salvador to see beloved preSident. So, I need many COMMENCEMENT llckels. Call 3811 or you may f1nd a guenlla at your door. 
Need nde to Ch1cago s O"Hare leav1ng Wed Match 13 around4:30 Call Mary Zo at2619 
Atde needed lo COLUMBUS. OH lor sp11ng break·Eflc X2585 
WASHINGTON D.C Are You Headtng 1n the D1rectton of Our Natton·s Capttal for Spnng Break ?!?1 I DESPERATELY need a 11de lo !he D.C.. Maryland, No. Vit· gm1a atea Can leave anyttme. Please call M1lch al 1305. Thanks 
EMERGEMCYII NEED RIDERS TO D.C. CALL3283 
NEED AIDE TO MADISON.Wt FOR SPRING BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL:CALL TOM AT 1503 
HELP NEED RIDE FOR TWO TQ DEN· VER WILLING TO SHARE EXPENSES CALL2187 ANYTIME 
NEED RIDE FOR 2 TO DENVER 2187 CALL ANYTIME 
TAMPA ..... ORLANDO ..... KEY WEST RIDERS WANTED TO ANY OF THESE AREAS. LEAVING IN TWO DAYS (THAT IS WEDNESDAY PM 3/13). TRAVELL· lNG IN A LUXURY R.V. II THOSE WITH WEAK STOMACHS NEED NOT CALL OTHERS CALL 232·0739 
A1dets needed lo DC area for break. Leavmg Sunday mormng aHer NCAA's. Call Btlly al2129. 
WANTED: 3 nders for relurn lrom TAMPA/FA.'s WEST COAST Call Ed(1664) or Mlke(1668). 
RIDE NEEDED 10 Pittsburgh Call Susie al4132. 
RIDE NEEDED CHAALOTIE.NC OR NEARBY SPRING BREAK WILL SHARE EXPENSES CAN LEAVE TH OR FRI CALL SUSAN 421 0 
Need· ttder lo tioslon lot S.B. leave Fri. Aflernoon. Share usual. Call Tracy 4049. 
Ride needed 10 11/inois for spring break lo e1ther Peoria, Bloomington, or west on ln­lerstate 80 to laSalle-Peru 01 Annawan. Can leave on Friday. Call Dave al1931. 
Rtde neeeded lo Rochesler NY lor 
Spring Break. Please call Ashok 
at 289-2679 aHer 9 PM. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO VA, DC, MD DAVE 1865 
"MAN COMES FROM THE WOMB. AND SPENDS THE REST OF HIS LIFE TRYING TO GET BACK INTO IT." T.H. LAWRENCE. 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: 1980 PLYMOUTH CHAMP. GOOD GAS MILEAGE. GREAT FOR RUNNING AROUND TOWN. KNOWS ITS WAY TO THE BARS BY HEARTII NEED TO SELL AS SOON AS POSSI· BLE. NEED TO FLY THE FAMILY OUT FOR GRADUATION!! ASKING FOR THE HIGHEST BIDDER. YOU WONT REGRET IT. CALL JEFF AT 3859 OR STOP IN 128 ST. ED'S. 
Supersaver lix SB·Boslon relurn 21/3· 25/3 Call232·6085 
THE SUN, THE SAND, AND THE SURF SPRING BREAK IS ALMOST HERE AND YOU DON'T HAVE PLANS GET A DIS· COUNT ON AN SAB TRIP TO FT. LAUDERDALE CALL 283·38 15 AFTER 4 PM 
LONG ISLANDERS: YOU NEED A RETURN AIRPLANE TICKET ON SUN· DAY 24 FROM U TO SOUTH BEND. I HAVE ONE AND ITS YOURS FOR $50.00. CALL GERRY AT 4521. 
FOR SALE: OLDS 98 AM/FM STEREO, 
RUNS WELL, $300. 283-1768 JOE. 
TICKETS 
NCAA TIX FOR SALE. 277·8795. 
TICKETS FOR NCAA'S round 1 & 2 
lhur&sal call ROBT. )2 3 2·8 3 0 6 
I've gol whal you wan!, you've got what 
M.S. needs 3 NCAA TIX FOR SALE· ND vs. Oregon St. To htghesl bldder(s) by Wed. al 6:00 p.m. ALL PROCEEDS GO TO M.S. CALL Enc al1966 
NEED 1 NCAA ltcketlor Sat. games Pele 
4325 
PLEASE HELP' My fnend plays lor PURDUE & I really wanllo see his game Thut. aHernoon. Call MARYPAT284· 5419 
NEED·2 Kiss Tix. $$$ Call Jeff Stouder 
Collect (317)474·0667 
NCAA TIX ..call232·5569! 
yWANTED NCAA TICKETSy call272·7900 ask lot Mr. Hunt 
PERSONALS 
THE SUN, THE SNOW, THE NIGHTLIFE, THE MOUNTAINS. SKI THE BEST THIS SPRING BREAK­ASPEN, COLORADO. $397 INCLUDES TRANSPORTATION, 6 DAY LIFT PASS, 7 NIGHTS LODGING RIGHT ON THE SLOPES! CALL MIKE AT 2113-3573 FOR INFORMATION OR TO SIGN-UP. 
ALBUMS ALBUMS ALBUMS Spring cleening!l! All Albums in atock on sale for $7.00 or leaa, oflthia week. Only 11 ROCK du lac on tat floor Lafortune. 
"WE ARE THE WORLD" The hit smgle by USA lor Africa is now on sale at Rock Du Lac, first floor, LaFortune. Help the starving people of Ethiopia. 
"We are the World" On sale al Rock Du Lac ! 
NFED EXTRA $. SELL YOUR CLASS B00KS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 SO.BEND AVE,M·F B!T12-4PM WE ALSO OFFER A 3 DAY SERVICE FOR USED BOOKS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER 4 LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Nanci Good luck on Comps, 2 more days til Fla. Can't wail lo celebrale your birthdaywilh you. Good Luck! Love. Mark. 
GUITAR PLAYER LOOKING TO START A BAND OR JOIN AN EXISTING ONE. NEEDS ALL THE HELP HE CAN GET. CALL ANDY 3039 
BIG JOB OPPORTUNITIES 
will elude my grasp if I don't get back my LOST MANAGERIAL ECON BOOK! II vanished sometime last week. If you have any leads, call Mike al 2026. (Will Hare the usuaL) 
JIM TABOR CORE COURSE Player ollhe week Mora Cuahwo 
The Schwerha is running wild' 
I'm going lo marry Elaine Robinson. 
Need ride lo Chtcago·s O'Hare leaving Wed. March 13 at aboul4:00 in the alter· noon. Call Mary Zo al2619. 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING lor all !hose goong on lhe SAB lnps lo Ft. lauderdale and Daytona Beach in lhe Little Theater of the La Fortune on Wed· nesday. March 13. All those on bus A must be there at 7 pm. Riders on bus B must be there at 8 pm. Daytona people must be there al 9 pm. II you don'! know what bus you are on, call239·7757 
losl:p.wedge on 13th 
green,REWARD:Erik 1623. 
ANARCHY .NOW!II 
IRISH GARDENS SALE Roses-$2.00 SALE IRISH GARDENS 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD "THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT' IS SPONSORING A BUS TO O'HARE I The bus leaves Fnday. March 15 at 3pm lnd1ana t1me. returns on Sunday, March 24 at6 pm Ch1cago lime. The pnce IS $10 each way. Bnng checks made oullo SAB 
to the Student ActiVIties Board offices. 
MEXICAN LUNCH Center for Social Concerns Thursday. March 14 11:30-1:30 
THURSDAY Go Mexican~ Lunch 11 :30·1 :30 Cenler lot Social Concerns March 14 
MEXICAN LUNCH Thuts.ll :30·1 :30 Proceeds loSt. Slephan·s atCSC 
Beef and the barbanan say : "TOWNIE FEVER ... CATCH IT Ill" 
Nol only is Bnan Donni a solid-gold dan­cer; he·s also a yuppie ... 
I just can·! believe Woodstock IS a yupp1e! 
ATIENTION all sludenls signed up fat the SENIOR CLASS TRIP TO DAYTONA A MANDATORY meeting will be held Thursday al 7:00 pm al the LaFortune liHie !heater. 
MARCO ISLAND PAATY..Anyone inter· ested 1n attending a party at my house in Marco Island over Spring Break please contacl Joe or Scoll al 1630 belore Thursday mght 
L7 DO YOU WANT HIM? OR DO YOU WANT ME? CUZ I WANT YOU P 
ATIENTION ALL STUDENT GOVERN· MENT CABINET APPLICANTS!!! There will be a mandalory meel>ng lor all !hose !hat applied lor positions in Student Gov­ernmenllor 1985·1986 on Weds. mght at 7:00p.m. 1n lhe New Orleans Room LaFortune. Please allend. Thanks, Bill Healy and Duane Lawrence 
To the person who "accidenlally"look my 
jean jacket Sat nile allhe Club House. I -want my keys, 1.0., and license back. If you wan! the coal I'll gtve you $40 to buy anolher one, but f want MINE bac~ be· cause my brother gave It to me before he was killed. Please return it, It'S very 1mpor~ !ant. Call Cathleen at SMC 5519 
NEED. 2•RIDERS TO CENTRAL FLA. 284·5172 (LATE) 
Need rtde 10 NO. NJ, NY area lor Spring break. Call Janel al284-4340. 
lehtgh· An upsel in the mak1ng! 
Elderly woman to her husband after pro­. duclion of ELECTRA : "Well she's happy now... everybodv·s dead. 
Why am I 1n 126??? 
SE-DUCK-TRESS: Thanks for lhe nole... The leeling is mulual. (Thai's whal she said.) . King Ortega 
LISA DAVISON .. th>s >S 111 You are nowle· gal 1n Daytona' Have a greal 191h. but re­member, don 1 do anythtng I wouldn't do twice! • 
Congratul•tionl to the world's first Glass·Spraymg Champion! 
HAPPY 19 NANCY' You ate the best. Meet me 1n the library or under the dome for your present Love ya forever-Matt 
RIDE NEEDED to Ptllsburgh. Call Sus1e at4132 
Jeff Herman--Just wanted to say "hello and WISh you a fun and exciting spring break. Love, Your Secret Admtrer 
sketter lets start spnng break early how about thursday, mghl? 
B.A.M.H. (Born Agam Man·Halers club) announces the first annual M•le chouvinlet pig of the week. T odays lucky wtnner: Kev1n K1lpatrick For this 
honor you receJVe nolhtng Kev, for fear your ego will grow even more reaching unsafe proport1ons Congradulat1ons. 
PANDEMONIUM AT STEPAN CEN· TEA!!! Sun 3/31 1:OOpm "WAESTLEMANIA" HOGAN/MRT vs. PIPER/ORNDORFF plus 8 other chaolic malches!!! TICKETS: Gate 10 ACC & SAB Record Slore Don'! M1ss It! Beae There!I 
SUBLET LG 2BR APT APRIL 1ST 232· 4355 
CARMEN'S BIRTHDAY SERVICES 
··we spec11111ze in seafood... fresh crabs delivered to our customers daiJy 
The Schwerha wtfl nol be denied her tn· san1ty! 
IRISH BOXER SHOATS !I! $5 Liz x2761 
TOASTMASTERS 
Tonight 6:30pm 223 Hayes-Healy New members welcome 
Happy Birthday Angie. You made 19 )uet before bleak in Florida. Have lun!! 
Happy Birthday and many more Angte!! 
DD KK KS KS 
48 MORE HOURS' 
DO YOU HAVE EVERYTHING YOU ARE GOING TO BRING? KATHY-DON'T (I REPEAT DON'T) YOU GET THE TAN· NING LOTION. KATHY·BRING THE DANCING SHOES. KAREN-HAl HA' HA! HA! AND DORENE-HOW ABOUT 10 ALARM CLOCKS? I'LL BRING THE ROAD MAPS!!! (don't lislen lo whal kathy says you guys). LV 
48 AND COUNTING! 
CEE CEE ... OK,Iel's lty lh1s aga1n! Yes. YOU Cee Cee Williams! Washtnglon D.C. will NEVER be the same aga~n' Con· gratulat1ons from your future room1es! 
To Satan and hlS rabid demons ol Zahm Hall: D1v1ne lnsp1rat1on has enlightened us. We think we have discovered your 1dentlly. How can we be sure? Are we sttll go1ng to burn in hell? Our souls w1ll not be at rest until we rece1ve an answer love, THE BADIN ANGELS 
LEWIS!!! ICE CREAM SOCIAL TONIGHT'! 11:30 IN THE PARTY ROOM 
$0.50 B.Y.O. BOWL & SPOON PROCEEDS GO TOMS 
GO TIMMY' BEAT THOSE tiEAVEAS'411S 1. FROM. CLARA PEL· LEA AND THE BEEF BOOSTERS 
TO ANYBODY INTERESTED IN FOAM· lNG A POLO CLUB THERE WILL BE A MEETING AT LAFORTUNE LITILE THEATRE TODAY AT 6.00PM NO HORSEBACK RIDING EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 
CHEAP! Two a1rline tickets one way NY to Ch1cago Sunday March 24. Call 284·4229 
MOST PEOPLE LOSE WEIGHT WHEN THEY GET THEIR WISDOM TEETH PULLED· I DIDN'T!! THANKS TO MY BUDDIES KATHLEEN G., JULIE K. KATHY B.. ANN D., KEllY 0., BECKY 
W. AND TO EVERYONE ELSE WHO MADE MY HELL WEEK, HEAVEN' LOVE. ANNIE H 
AUDITIONS I PARTS IN DIRECTING PLAYS AUDITIONS WILL BE HELD IN WASH· INGTON HALL LAB THEATRE. ntiS THURSDAY, 3-14·85, AT BPM. 
The Observer Wednesday, March 13, 1985-page 13 
Ewing, Tisdale named for third time 
AP names All-America teams 
Associated Press straight season he has blocked 100 a 19.5 average on 52 percent field or more shots. goal shooting and 82 percent from 
NEW YORK -Patrick Ewing of An intimidating defensive force, the free throw line. St. John's posted Georgetown and Wayman Tisdale of Ewing is a sure choice as the Na­a 27-3 mark, including the Big East Oklahoma were named to The Asso­tional Basketball Association's No. 1 regular season title. ciated Press' All-America basketball draft choice. He made 64 percent of Acomplete player, Mullin also led team for the third straight year Mon­his shots from the field this season, the Redmen in assists and steals and day. raising his career total to 2,096 was the team's third best rebounder. 
Chris Mullin of St. John's and points. He also grabbed 1,277 Lee, a slender 6-10 senior, became Keith Lee of Memphis State joined rebounds and blocked 479 shots in the leading scorer and rebounder in Ewing and Tisdale as unanimous four seasons. Memphis State history when he choices for the first team. Also cho­Tisdale, a 6-9 junior center, led averaged 20.4 points and 9.6 sen to the first team was Wichita the Sooners to a 28-5 record this rebounds in pacing the Tigers to a 
State's Xavier McDaniel, who could season, the Big Eight Conference 27-3 record, including the Metro be the first Division I player to lead regular season and tournament Conference regular season and the nation in both scoring and crowns with a 25.5 scoring average tournament crowns. rebounding. on 57 percent field goal shooting· Lee's career totals are 2,331 
and a 10.2 rebound average. He's the points and 1,301 rebounds. He madeEwing, Tisdale and Mullin were Big Eight's all-time leading scorer 50 percent ofhis shots from the fieldteammates on the U.S. Olympic gold 
with 2,570points. this season. 
medal team last summer. 
Tisale is expected to· be a leading McDaniel, a 6-7 senior, led Wic­Ewing, a 7-foot, 240-pound senior draft pick by the NBA ifhe passes up hita State, 18-12, to the Missouri Val­
center, led the defending NCAA his senior season. Tisdale's high ley Conference tournament champions to a 30-2 record, includ­game this season was 55 points championship, which gave the ing the Big East Conference tourna­against Southwestern (Texas). Shockers an automatic NCAA berth. ment title over St. John's. He Mullin, a 6~6 senior guard, became McDaniel averaged 27.4 points with averaged 14.6 points, 9.7 rebounds the Redmen's leading career scorer, 56 percent field goal marksmanship and blocked 121 shots -the fourth raising his total to 2,350 points with and 15.0 re-hounds this season 
rebounds per conference game DePaul's Tracy Manuel, 
( 11.3 ppg and 7.7 rpg overall). She Evansville's Shelly Adlard, Dayton's
Awards 
graduated as Notre Dame's all-time Teresa Yingling and Xavier's Stacey 
continuedfrom page 16 
leading rebounder ( 796) and Land round out the second team. 
As well as releasing the coach of second-leading scorer ( 1,233 "I'm extremely happy for the 
the year honoree, the North Star atso points). Her 293 points this season players, especially Mary Beth and 
announced its all-conference was also a school record for seniors. Sandy," said DiStanislao. "They did 
squads. Not surprisingly, Notre Keys and Schueth shared first­not get as much attention as Trena 
Dame had more members than any team honors with Detroit's Cas­this year, but the other coaches 
other school. sandra Pack, Loyola point guard realized their worth to us. I think all 
Keys, a 6-0 junior who spent most Faith Mimnaugh, the nation's assist three are very deservingselections." of the season at guard, was named to leader, and DePaul's Sally Anderson. IRISH ITEMS -For those who are the first team for being among the Pack is a sophomore. Anderson is a interested, the eight-team field for conference leaders in a number of junior, and Mimnaugh is a senior. the National Women's Invitational offensive categories, including Botham, the Irish center who Tournament which snubbed Notre scoring ( 17.2 ppg), shot blocking started 21 of 28 games this year, Dame is Texas Tech (22-7), Mon­
(43) and shooting percentage highlights the NSC second team. The tana ( 22-7), Drake ( 23-4 ), LSU ( 17­(.519). She also contributed 5.6 6-2 native ofMadison, Wise., was the 9), West Virginia ( 19-8), Florida rebounds per game, 3 7 steals and 6 7 only freshman to make either all­(20-8), West Texas State (25-4 in a assists. conference team. Thanks in large very weak conference) and Cal 
Joining Keys on the first team was part to her.585 shooting percentage State-Fullerton ( 1 7-10 ). In the Schueth, a 6-0 senior who emerged in the 14 conference games, Botham future, it is likely that the NCAA will from an early-season slump to play a averaged 12.8 points against North increase its tournament field to 48 major role in Notre Dame's drive to Star opponents (9.4 ppg overall). from the present 32. If this happens, the title. The Indianapolis native She also pulled down just under the North Star Conference will prob­averaged 14.4 points and 9.2 seven rebounds each game. ably gain an automatic berth. 

The ObKrvcr/Pete Laches 
The Associated Press has named lris!J freshman point guard David Rivers an honorable mention selection to its 1984-85 All­America basketball team. Rivers, shown here dribbling against Marquette's Mandy johnson, was one ofonly seven Indiana col~ lege players so honored. For more on the All-America team, see the story to the left. 
NFL unveils helmets wired with radios and receivers 
Associated Press changes and interpretations de­signed to make the average NFL 
PHOENIX, Ariz. -Tbe National game next season 1 0 minutes Football League's competition com­shorter than this year's three hours mittee formally unveiled yesterday a and nine minutes. plan to bring the league into the Those changes include nothing space age by wiring players' helmets revolutionary. But they do include a with radios and receivers that will half-dozen minor changes that help them overcome crowd noise in would keep the game moving more stadiums. quickly and perhaps cut down on 
The new hi-tech transistor hel­penalties, including the controver­mets, which ifapproved in voting by sial pass interference calls caused by the NFL's 28 teams to take place incidental contact. · today and tomorrow, will be used in preseason this year by the San Fran­"The thing we're all concerned cisco 49ers imd Seattle Seahawks, about is the cheap calls," said Miami then put into general use in the 1986 Dolphins Coach Don Shula, who regular season. presented the report at a news con­
The helmets were unveiled by the ference with the committee's chair­NFL's competition committee, man, Dallas Cowboys President Tex which also presented its "pace ofthe Schramm and Eddie LeBaron, gen­game" package, a series of rules eral manager ofthe Atlanta Falcons. 
-~_ IDbt1Knigltts nftlJt C!Iastlt 
-c ~ Men's Hair Styling at its finest minutes from campus
::.~:1,t~. :,, 
ssooH_AIR~UTS 
......----­
54553 Tma IJL, u 23 (ocrou from Mortin's) 
-~ s~:;;~~. 
\~ &blowdry 
2.7'2-0312 Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 277-1619 We are only minutes from campus 

B 
ut we keep looking. Because we know there are still good men out there. Men with strong convictions --:and the courage to act on them. 
Men who want to feed the hungry. Console those in despair. Free those imprisoned for religious beliefs. 
Ifthe man we've described sounds like you, maybe you should become one of us. We're the Trinitarians. An 800-year-old order of Catholic priests and brothers dedicated to tackling some of the world's toughest problems. 
For more information, call us at (301) 484-2250, or send for our free brochure. 
Father Bill Moorman, Director of Vocations The Trinitarians 
-----------------------------, 
P.O. Box 5719 • Baltimore, MD 21208 
Tell me more about the Trinitarians. Name ___________________________ 
Address-------------------------
Ciry Srate _____Zip _____ 
~fii!Kt~~~s
AROMANCATHOUCCOMMUNilYOF 
PRJESTS AND BROTHERS. 
Theliinitarians.Joinus,andthe 
world will neverbe the same. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS!H SPATZ'S COUNCIL IS FORMING 
We need Exec. Coordinators and Committee Members for: 
Senior Escape Weekends PublicityOut A' T owners FundraisingSocial Events Athletics 
Liturgical and Community 
We need Dorm Reps. Pick up applications March 11-15 (LaFortune Info. Desk) Applications due March 29 (Room 264 Alumni) 
....---~----~----------·~--------~---------­
The Observer 
Fencing team gains strength in foil through Higgs-Coulthard's success 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
Spo,.ts Writer 
Leading the way for the Irish fen­cing team by way of the men's foil for the last two years has been soph­omore Charles Higgs-Coulthard. 
In his rookie season, Higgs· 
Coulthard compiled a 43-6 record, 
won the Great Lakes Championship 
in the foil, and won the national title 
in the weapon at the NCAA cham­
pionships. 
"He steps on your campus as a 
freshman and begins to give you the 
kinds of results that you would ex· 
pect from juniors and seniors," said 
Irish head coach Mike DeCicco. "He's a good fencer, and he's dedi­cated. His record speaks for itself." 
This year, the sophomore has compiled a solid 33-2 record while taking his second straight Great Lakes Championship in the foil with an I H-1 outing at the event. Accor­ding to DeCicco. he should be the top seed in the foil in next week's NC--AA tourney, and the favorite to repeat ao; the champion in the 
weapon. 
"He should be one of the top 
seeds, If not the top seed," com· 
mented DeCicco. "If he's the num­
ber one seed going into the first 
round and If he is able to remain 
there, his chances of winning it will 
be very good." 
Two years ago, Higgs-Coulthard enrolled at Notre Dame because of its strong fencing program and be­cause of the people who preceeded him In the program. 
"I came here because Mike Van­derVelden was here, and he was a good fencer whom I looked up to," said Higgs-Coulthard. "Also, my brother fenced here." 
In his rookie year, the Scottsdale, Ariz., native became only the second freshman to achieve all-American status for the Irish. He did so by get­ting into the final round ofthe NCAA Tournament which he eventually won. Last year, he also finished sixth in the United States junior Olympics and represented the United States in the 1984 World Championships held in the Soviet Union. 

Charles Higgs-Coulthard 
To this point in his young col­legiate career, Higgs-Coulthard has achieved and even surpassed any goals that he had set prior to enroll­ing at Notre Dame, as his 76-8 record is among the best on the all­time Irish list. He also feels confident that he will be able to defend his na­tional title in the foil. 
"This far, I have been very pleased 
with what 1 have done," said the 
sophomore. "I never expected to do 
as well as I have done this far. 
"I feel that my chances to win this 
championship might be a bit better 
than they were going into last year's 
tournament because the competi­
tion, I don't feel, will be as strong as 
it was last year," continued Higgs­
Coulthard. "The main competitors 
will be those of Wayne State and 
Penn State and Mike VanderVelden." 
Higgs-Coulthard will join Vander­Velden ( 3 S-7 on the year) in representing the Irish in the foil divi­sion of the national tournament. Overall, he strongly believes that the Irish should go into the event and emerge triumphant. 
"Ifwe're going to win it sometime in the next few years, we're going to win it this year," commented Higgs­Coulthard. "We're really keyed up for it, and I think that we'll be going in as the odds-on-favorite to win it. If all of us fence up to our potential, I don't think that there'll be any other team to challenge us." 
In the foil overall, Higgs­
Coultahrd believes that the Irish 
entry will hold its own. 
"I'm always ready for a competi­tion like this," said the sophomore. "Mike (VanderVelden) is off and on, but by the way that he's been fen­cing, I think that he and I will be at the top in the foil division. Mike is really determined to do something this year and so am I." 
For the future, the foilist sees the Irish as having continued success in fencing. 
"Next year, I feel that we'll have as strong a team as we had this year," said Higgs-Coulthard. 
------~--~---­
Wednesday, March 13, 1985-page 14 
Today's NCAA Tournament scheduled practice times 
Ohio Purdue Kansas Auburn North Carolina Notre Dame Middle Tennessee Oregon State 
' 
12:00-1:00 1:00-2:00 2:00-3:00 3:00-4:00 5:00-6:00 6:00-7:00 7:00-8:00 8:00-9:00 
All practices are open to the public 
Happy 21st Birthday to 'Young' Bill Ryder 

from 'Old' Bill Ryder 
sional ranks after earning all­month, and by the season. If you America accolades his junior year. work hard, you can see yourself
Brokaw 
He was a first-round selection of progress as you meet each one." continuedfrom page 16 the Milwaukee Bucks in the 1974 He also sees some similarities be­
NBA draft. After two years with the tween this team he coaches and the New Brunswick, NJ., native. "He al­Bucks, he spent two more seasons teams he played on for the Irish. lows you to touch all the bases in with the Cleveland Cavaliers before "The team we have has more than coaching so you can be a successful returning to the campus to finish one player to count on, just like we head coach. He knows that will be work toward his bachelor's degree didn't only depend on (Adrian) the next step. In fact, that's one of in sociology, which he received in Dantley and Qohn) Shumate," the criteria Digger uses to bring us 1980. Brokaw offers. "Whenever Rivers or in. That year he began as a part-time (Ken) Barlow is off, we have other 
"As far as playing for him also, I coach under Phelps before being players you can pick up the slack. 
have a lot of good memories as a elevated to full-time status less than Brokaw is definitely looking for an player here," continues Brokaw. a year later. opportunity to coach his own team. "The biggest moment was definitely "I guess you could say that I al­"I think I know what I need to know the victory over UCLA in 1974. The ways wanted to coach," the fifth­to take that step," he says. "It'll hap­Marquette game was also very satis­year assistant says. "My dad used to pen eventually." fying for me -it came down to those coach fast-pitch softball, so I grew In the meantime, Brokaw will set­
two choices on where to go to up with it. A lot of guards become tle for being in the huddle alongside school." coaches. They're like a quarterback Phelps and getting the Irish ready for in football -they have to know the NCAA Tournament. 
.Ihe Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Sports Editor (2) Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Questions about these positions should be directed to Jeff Blumb at the Observer office. Personal statements and resumes are due Friday, March 15, atSp.m.
Brokaw first came to Notre Dame what's going on all over the court." in 1971. He started at guard for the There are a number of thin~ in­
r..................~................................. 
Phelps-coached Irish as a sopho­volved in being a player that would 
more and junior. He averaged over tend to help with coaching. Brokaw -tc GOING TO FT. LAUDERDALE OVER SPRING BREAK? t 
1 7 points per game during each of thinks. "In order to succeed as a 
-tc
those two years, and elected to skip player or a coach you have to set 
t All students and alumni from Notre Dame and St. Mary's are invited t
his senior season to join ther profes-goals. Individual goals -by the day, : to attend the Notre DameAiumni Club of Ft. Lauderdale picnic and party -tc -tc after the St. Patrick's Day Parade, Sunday, March 17, 1985. The city-t 
: wide parade starts at noon and the party starts at 2:00PM and goes until ? . ~ 
-tc • 
-tc -tc -tc : 
• • You are all invited to walk in the parade with the Alumni Clubs of ~ : St. Mary's and Notre Dame and then join the party poolside, at t -tc the Riverside Hotel. ~
: -~ 
-tc ~ 
~ REFRESHMENTS AND FOOD -SPECIAL PRICES FOR STUDENTS t 
t i
t AFTER THE PARADE -JOIN THE PARTY : -tc AFTER THE BEACH -JOIN THE PARTY ~ : AFTER THE SUN GOES DOWN -JOIN THE PARTY : 
~ : 
: SPONSORED BY THE NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S ALUMNI :t CLUBSOFFT. LAUDERDALE i 
it (Additional information and directions etc, will be available at the Alumni it : Association Hospitality Van parked next to the Yankee Sheraton t it Trader Hotel.) ~ 
~...................................................+ 

T0 day__________________...._
....w_e_d_n_e_s_d_ay_,_M_ar_c_h_13_._1_9_8_5__P_ag_e_1_5 
Doonesbury 
UH.. SURE, 5TCV/c. IF IT'5 OMY IAJfTH 7HE3 ClHIOPIAN OI3­
5EJ?.Vf31<. '\. 
Zeto 

ZETQTHE TIGHT \.1/i), 
EOTUS SOI'1E ThJO-BIT 
BARGAIN 11-lROJeH A SHADY TRAVEL ASE!'LY. 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
Garry Trudeau 
lfS NOTA Vf31<Y 
NIC/3 7HIN6 TO SAYAeaiT 'tWR. 
OWN 5!5713R, 
7HaJ6H. 
Kevin W<\lsh 


The Daily Crossword 
57 Rip 10 Scribble 58 Sally or Ayn idlyACROSS 35 Ms MacGraw 
1 Soybeanfood 36 Burden 59 Obliterate 11 Palo­5 Rose essence 37 Like some 60 Vast 12 :ipace10 Flit gardens 61 -Karenina 13 Shoe shaper 14 Impresses 38 Con game 62 Inhibit 21 Learn15 Mussolini's 39 Neither's 63 Sign 22 Great review son-in-law sidekick 24 Feat16 Trumpeter swan 40 Wall Street 27 Comfortingfor one commodity DOWN word17 -way! (never) 
41 Replica 1 Spoil 28 Traveled 18 Moves easily 42 Like some 2 Proprietor 29 Sports center 19 Indian earth 30 Verve
3 Sports center 20 Novel 44 Double 4 Gls' friend 31 Frost 21 Sports center 45 Astronaut 5 Cast 32 Arm bone 
6 Beginners: var.
23 Wall Street Grissom 33 Office group 
moguls 46 Gr. porch 34 Connery of 25-de mer 49 Sports center 7 N.Mex. art films 26 Voice votes 54 Sun center 37 Called a cab 27 Tourist 55 Bard's river 8 Against 38 Blind part 32 Certain berth 56 Tailless 9 Flavoring 40 Disparage 34 Beach lemur herb 41 Tress 
_Campus 
•12:20 
p.m. -Workshop, "Industrial Policy: In the Perspective of the Bishops' Pastoral Letter: Catho­lic Social Teaching and the U.S. Economy," Prof. Stephen Worland, NO, Room 131 Decio HalL 

•2:30-5p.m. 
-lncomeTaxAssistanceProgram, CSC Coffeehouse. 

•3:30-5 
p.m.-PanelDiscussion, Corporate and Professional Women: Strategies for Success, Cyn­thia Bieniek and Ann Moss, General Motors, Career & Placement Services. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Nuclear Fis­sion and the New Fission Barriers," Dr. Kevin Lesko, Argonne National Laboratory, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "Genetic Divergence During the Speciation Process in Aedes," Dr. Karamjit Rai, NO, Room 278 Galvin. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Hegelian Reverberation in Rilke's Malte Laurids Brigge & the End of a European Tradition,'' Prof. Volker Durr, Northwes­tern University, Room 131 Decio. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Structural Studies of Bioactive Natural Products," Prof. Koji Nakanishi, Room 123 Nieuwland. 

•5:
15 p.m. -Memorial Mass, For Mother ofSr.John Miriamjones, Sacred Heart Church, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh C.S.C. Celebrant. 

•6 
p.m.-Meeting, Formation ofthe Notre Dame Polo Club, Little Theater, LaFortune. 

•6:30 
p.m. -InformationalMeeting, China Sum­mer Program, Room 242 O'Shaughnessy. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Toastmasters Meeting, Room 223 Hayes Healy. 

•7 
· 10p.m.-Theatre Auditions, For'WeWon't Pay, We Won't Pay,' Lab Theater, Notre Dame, Sponsored by ND/SMC Theater Dept. 

•
7 p.m. -RASTA Meeting, Center for Social Con­cerns. 

•
7 p.m. -GeneralMeeting, International Students Organization, ISO Lounge, Basement ofLaFortune. 

•
7-8 p.m. -MandatoryMeeting, ForAll Student Government Cabinet Applicants, New Orleans Room, LaFortune. 

•7 
p.m. -Wednesday Night Film Series, "Stagecoach," ETS Theatre qfthe CCE. 

•7:30 
p.m.-LentenSeries, "What is Catholicism?" Rev. Richard McBrien, CSC Classroom. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Japanese Ceramics, By Celeste Bourke, NO Graduate Student, Room 200 Riley Hall ofArt (Old Chemistry Building). 

•
7:30 p.m. -AIESEC Board ofAdvisors Recep­tion, MBA Lounge, Hayes Healy. 

•9 
p.m. -Senior St. Pat's Party, H.I.'s, (Michigan). 

•11 
p.m. -Mass &: Reflection, "What Has Lent Meant to You?" Fr. James Burtchaell, Lyons Hall Chapel, Sponsored by Lyons & Morrissey Liturgy Commissions. 



The Far Side Gary Larson 

43 Meeting list 49 Pasternak 44 Divining rod heroine 
user 50 -the Terrible 46 Balance 51 Ger. city 47 Leave-taking 52 Days of-48-times 53 Nasty child 
(long ago) 57 Gr. letter 
Tuesday's Solution 

©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 3/13/85 

NOW SHOWING at your local theatre 
(Engineering Auditorium) 
7:00, 9:00, 11:00 $1.00 


Wednesday, March 13, 1985-page 16 
DiStanislao, Keys, Schueth and Botham collect North Star awards 
By MIKE SULLIVAN  Mary Beth Schueth, and Sandy Bot­ Notre  Dame's  first  conference  
Sports Editor  ham  -were  named  to  the  all­ championship.  Onder  DiStanislao,  
conference  teams.  The  the  Irish  have  compiled  a  19-';  
Although  the  Notre  Dame  wo­ announcements follow on the heels  record during the North Star's first  
men's basketball team was not one  of Monday's  news  that  Keys  had  two seasons, the best record of any  
ofthe 40 teams offered bids for post­ been named as the North Star player  NSC team in that span.  
season  tournament  play, the 20-8  of the year.  The  20-8 performance also  im­ 
Irish are raking in the awards follow­ For DiStanislao, the award caps off  proves  DiStanislao's  coaching  
ing  their  North  Star  Conference  what has been the most successful of  record  at  Notre  Dame  to  80-56  
championship.  her  five  years  at  Notre  Dame.  (.588). In I 0 years of coaching at  
Yesterday,  Notre  Dame  coach  Despite increasing the strength of  Notre Dame and Northwestern, she  
Mary DiStanislao was honored as the  the Irish schedule, she was able to  has recorded a 169-86 ( .663) mark.  
conference's coach ofthe year. Also,  lead the team to its second 20-win  
three  Irish  players  -Trena  Keys,  season  in three years.  It  was also  see AWARDS, page 13  

Brokaw lends experience to Irish 
Editor's Note: Today The Obsen1er In keeping with Phelps' practice centrate on your weaknesses," continues a series profiling the as­of exposing his assistants to all Brokaw says. "When I played, I'd al­sistant coaches of the Notre Dame phases of coaching, Brokaw is in­ways remember the mistakes I made men's basketball team. Assistant volved with recruiting and scouting and the times that we would lose. Gary Brokaw is second in the series, as well as working closely with the That's what you have to build from." which will continue tomorrow Notre Dame guards. One of the things that assistant with a look atjim Baron . "Gary has spent a lot of time with coaches have to deal with is a player David Rivers, especially helping him in a slump. He has to try to quickly 
resolve the problem.
By THERON ROBERTS 
"That's very tough for a player,"
Sports Writer 
says the former Irish star, who still stands in 2Hth place on the all-time Being an assistant coach is quite a Notre Dame scoring list. "You have bit different than playing the game, to go back to what he is doing well especially at the collegiate level, but and go from there. Scott Hicks had toGary Brokaw has made that transi­go back to rebounding and defensetion, and all here under the Golden in order for him to get out ofhis mid­Dome. 
season slump, but it'll come as longBrokaw's career as a player under as you keep working at it. It allIrish Head Coach Digger Phelps al­comes back to setting goals."
lows him a unique perspective on his role as an assistant on the Notre Being a player and an assistant for Dame staff. the same boss might not be a very 
"Gary knows what the players ex­desirable undertaking for some perience as student-athletes here at progress more quickly into the col­people, but that ha~ not been the Notre Dame," says Phelps. "He is a lege game," Phelps adds. case for Brokaw. good example to the team that you His work often involves working "Coming back to work with Dig­need that education and you can't with the players before practice on ger is like coming home," states the count on a lifetime in professional one-on-one moves and shooting. basketball." "The best way to get better is to con-see BROKAW, page 14 

Questions abound as NCAA Tourney begins 
Hello again, everybody! 

recruiting list three years ago, but opted for Tobacco Road There are a million stories in the naked city ... and a instead. Now he may have a chance to haunt the Irish a
Chuck
million questions to go with them. Here are just a few: little more if both squads win on Thursday. If there is a 
•Is the man that located the sites of the Southeast North Carolina-Notre Dame game on Saturday, it will mark 
Freeby
Regional in the cities of South Bend, Indiana and Dayton, 
the first time these tradition-rich teams will have met since Ohio --two cities that were part of the Union Army in the 
1977. That time, North Carolina prevailed 79-77, despite
Irish Items 
Civil War --the same man who put the Atlanta Braves in the 
the fact the game was played on St. Patrick's Day. Hope­National League West? 
fully, if the opportunity presents itself, the tables will be 
•How did Kentucky, with a 16-12 record, qualify for the 
turned on the folks from Tobacco Road this time around. NCAA tournament? According to the committee, the Meanwhile, Manning was involved in a controversy re­
First, both teams have to win on Thursday.Wildcats made it on the "strength of schedule," but try garding recruiting when his father, Ed, was hired by Brown telling that to West Virginia at 20-7 or Marquette at 18-10. I as an assistant coach. While the press has asked a lot of •Don't expect Middle Tennessee State to roll over for doubt those folks will be very receptive. questions, Manning has done most of his talking on the North Carolina, either. The Ohio Valley conference tourn­
•I thought that with a 64-team field, there weren't going court, leading the J ayhawks in scoring. ament champions enter with a 17-13 record, and not too to be any "byes." Then, how do you explain Georgetown •Despite its geographical proximity, Purdue makes its many fulks give them much of a chance ofleaving any bet­playing Lehigh in the first round? The Engineers appear as first visit ever to the ACC this Thursday. The Boilermakers ter than 1 7-14. Still, the Blue Raiders have shown they can though they will be little more than cannon fodder tomor­and the Irish were perennial rivals until 1966, when the pull off the upset in the past, knocking off Kentucky by a row night for John Thompson's squad. Then again, the way series was halted. Since then, the two teams have never 50-44 count in the first round ofthe '82 NCAA tournament. the Hoyas have been playing lately, maybe the NCAA met, and they won't unless the Boilers and the Irish make it First-year coach Bruce Stewart gets the Annie Sullivan should just throw them into round three and allow them to to the third round at Birmingham. Miracle Worker award for taking Middle Tennessee from spar with lArry Holmes in the meantime. While Digger and Bobby continually grab headlines 11-16 a year ago to the field of 64, especially after losing 
Now let's turn our attention to some of the stories that around the state, Purdue coach Gene Keady has been four starters to graduation. Can the "Miracle of Murfrees­will develop here. doing a fine job at Purdue since taking over in 1980. That boro" continue tomorrow? Nobody knows for sure, and 
•The visit by the Ohio Bobcats is a return to where it all doesn't mean Keady has done it quietly, however. In that's what makes it interesting. began for head coach Danny Nee. Nee served his appren­Purdue's loss at Illinois this year, Keady earned a technical ticeship as an assistant to Digger Phelps from 1978-80, and for a tirade at an official. When he went to sit down, he •Oregon State runs on the A.C. power... A.C. Green that 
now has taken his Bobcats to the Mid-American Confer­missed his chair and wound up on the floor of Assembly is. The man with the colorful name in more ways than one ence championship. Hall to the delight of the Illini students. Keady hopes to has helped the Beavers to a 22-8 record this year, after 
Nee isn't the only Notre Dame connection on the Ohio have the last laugh .this week. being named the Pac-1 0 Player of the Year in the '83-'84 squad. The Bobcats' leading scorer is Paul Baron. If the campaign. He'll mark another challenge for the vaunted name sounds familiar, it's because Paul is the younger brot­•The Auburn Tigers are hoping to keep Keady from Irish defense, which has really come to life during the last her of Irish assistant coach Jim Baron. Jim might put up an laughing, as they try to prolong the coaching career of halfof the season. argument as to who the better player is, but let there be no Sonny Smith. Smith has already announced that he will step Green isn't the only thing going for Oregon State, as doubt that Paul must play well if Ohio is to upset Kansas in down as Auburn coach at the end of the season, but he coach Ralph Miller boasts 34 years of collegiate experi­
the first game tomorrow. hopes the end won't be too soon. ence and over 600 wins. While a lot ofpeople might think 
•Speaking of Kansas, theJayhawks feature two ofcollege The Tigers may have the youngest team in the eight­that Miller is older than some Aztec ruins, there's no doubt basketball's most controversial figures in head coach Larry team field that converges on South Bend. With junior he still knows what he's doing, as he is one of the games Brown and freshman sensation Danny Manning. Brown, Chuck Person leading the way and five freshmen on the most respected coaches. who ha~ picked up the reputation of a journeyman coach, roster, Smith will hope that the season has matured his club And as for Notre Dame ... well, as we said earlier there made the lAwrence campus the most recent name on his enough to handle the physical Boilermakers. are a million stories and a million questions here in the resume which has spanned the NCAA, NBA and ABA. While •The fabled Dean Smith and his North Carolina Tar Heels naked city. Hopefully, the Irish can become the biggest the Jayhawk coach has his critics, one would do well to will also make their first visit ever to the ACC this week, but story ofthis NCAA tournament by answering in the affirma­remember that he is the only one of)ohn Wooden's succes­it will not be the first visit for all the North Carolina players. tive to one question: Can Notre Dame go far on the road to sors at UCLA to take the Bruins to the tourney finals. Forward Dave Popson was the top man on Digger Phelps' Lexington? 




