Liquor tax -page 5 

VOL XX, NO. 27 TIIESDAY, OCTOBER I, 198S 

Senate comes to no decision regarding Observer finances
• I 

By CINDY RAUCKHORST 
Copy Editor 
The Student Senate discussion on whether or not The Observer should release its financial state­ments resulted in another stalemate at last night's meeting. 
"We're just kicking a dead horse," said Senator K.C. Culum. 
"That being the point," Culum said, "it seems to me we could do a lot better things, as a senate, as sop­homores or junior class presidents, as student senators and hall presi­dents, than worry about The Obser­
ver." 
Bill Healy, student body president, still defended the rights of the students to see The Observer's financial statements. "I think that the students, not the student body presi­dent solely, or any member of this senate, should have the right to see those books," he said. 
"What we would like to do is con­vince her (Hamilton )ofthe logic be­hind it." 
Comments were made concerning a packet distributed to senate members by Observer Editor-in-Chief Sarah Hamilton, con­taining correspondence between her and Student Body President Bill Healy concerning The Observer's editorial board an,d the Observer fee. 
Included in the packet was a Sept. 9 letter to Hamilton in which Healy wrote, "... So many administrators plus past student body presidents 
Distribution of additional $10,000 discussed by Senate 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST 
Copy Editor 
Th~ Notre Dame Student Senate at 
last night's meeting discussed its 
role in th~ allocation of a recent 
JI 0,000 increase: in its fiscal budget 
f<>r 198'5-86. 
Because of an underestimation of enrolled students by the University, student government originally was not giv~n the correct amount of money from student activity fees, said Senate member Karen Ingwer­sen. 

The approximately JIO,OOO in ad­ditional funds represents the corrected balance of student ac­tivity fees, she said. 
Senator Chris Abood proposed the money should be put into a stu­dent government holding fund which the senate would allocate during the year to class govern­ments, clubs or dorm events. 
The organizations would be responsible for requesting addi­tional funds as needed, Abood said. 
Junior Class President Jim Domagalski said the classes need more money than the amount this system probably would provide. 
"What we're dealing with is not selfish self-interest, but it's just reality. We get 13400 a year to spend, that is, per class per year, to spend," he said. 
"There are executive coor­dinators who have budgets larger than the whqle class's budget. There are weeks run by SAB (Student Ac­tivities Board) that have a budget as big as the three class budgets combined. We just really don't have any money to do the stuff that we're 
Badin to inherit extra space; no plans set yet 
By MARY REYNOLDS 
NrwsStaff 
Badin Hall President Judith Windhorst has several suggestions for how her hall could use the space left by the barbershop, hairstylist and travel bureau when they move from Radin Hall to the renovated LaFortune, she said. 
But whether anyone takes those suggestions remain.-; In question. 
"No on~ seems to know what's going on with the space that will be vacated," she said. 
Windhorst wrote a letter last week to Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs, re­questing that Badin Hall receive all or part of the space to be vacated, she said. 
Tyson replied in a letter that no decision has been made regarding the space, Windhorst said. Tyson added that he had forwarded her let­ter to the "appropriate University offices," she said. 

Tyson did not specify which offices those were, she said. 
Travel Bureau manager MaryAnn Waechter said she had not been notified official! y ofany plans to rei­ocate the Travel Bureau, although she has heard that it will be moving sometime this spring or summer. 
Badin Hall could use the extra space, Windhorst said, even though it "has benefited from the con­venience and student traffic," the services have provided. 
"Food saJes is probably the most urgent need," she said. 
At the present time, the hall food sales are housed in one small room, she said. There is no separate space for inventory storage, which means inventory must be stored in the single room, Windhorst said, leaving 
inadequate space for food prepara­
tion. 
The current facilities/have no sink 
which limits food sales to selling 
only pre-packaged food because of 
sanitary regulations, she said. 
There are also not enough electri· 
cal outlets in the food sales area, 
Windhorst said. "Sometimes a 
refrigerator has to be unplugged 
when they want to plug in another 
appliance," she said. 
"If Badin were allowed to utilize the barbershop area, the residents could benefit from an improved food sales ... and the existing plumb· ing ln the shops would allow Badin's food sales to have excellent sanitary conditions through the use ofsinks," said Windhorst in her letter to Tyson. 
Windhorst also suggested that the space could be used for a new party room. 
feel there should be a referendum to put an elected official on that board or on the converse, make the Obser­ver fee entirely optional, (or make the Observer fee part of the Student Activites fee, subject to the Senate's allocation)." 
A Sept. l8letter to Hamilton from a group of 12 student leaders, in­cluding Healy, said,"lt is our un­animous belief that because each and every student is required to pay a J6 fee, these statements should be available for public inspection. 
"As student leaders we also believe it is our duty to monitor the expenditures ofall student organiza­tions which spend student fees, especially those held as a public trust," the letter further stated. 
Hamilton responded in a Sept. 29 letter addressed to Student Senate members, in which she discussed The Observer's advertising rates and its financial statements. 
"Before student government and The Observer become further diverted from their original purposes and alienated from each other, I would like to clarify the newspaper's position on both of these issues," her letter said. 
"Although Bill (Healy) has since told me that by 'monitoring the ex­penditures' the group meant that it wanted to look over the statements and be able to ask qu~stlons, Webster's Dictionary still defines monitor, 'to watch, observe or check especially for a purpose ... to keep track of, regulate or control,' " her letter said. 
"These leaders may rephrase their letter, but they already have stated their intent," Hamilton wrote. 
Culum said at the meeting that the use ofthe word 'monitor' was an lm· portant consideration in-examining the letter. 
"I think the key to this specific situation of requesting The Obser· ver's books goes back to the letter of Sept. 18, In which the word 'monitor' is used," Culum said. 
"They are never going to give anyone their records. And I think they can use that word to defend themselves quite effectively," he said. 
Senator Steve Taeyaerts agreed withCulum. 
"Let's publicly drop the whole thing, and have the people who are really at the heart of the ·matter, really involved with it, work at It be­hind the scenes," he said. 
"All this publicity is just causing animosity, and that's not what we need," he said. 
Healy said that correspondence between Hamilton and himself which preceded the letter from the 12 student leaders was private, having no bearing on his current re­quest to see the newspaper's books. 
"Those previous letters were separate from the other things and they were private letters. I told her (Hamilton ) I would not publish those opinions because I did not think the general public needed to hear about that," Healy said. 
see OBSERVER, page 4 

trying to do," Domagalski said. 
Student Body President Bill Healy said the present 80-20 policy of dis­tributing student government funds, which was used to allocate the original 1246,000, also would be used forthe approximately J1 0,000. 
"According to (Vice President for Student Affairs) Father (David) Tyson, that Jl0,000 will be dealt with exactly the same way that the rest of the 1246,000 is dealt with," Healy said. 
The present system, called the 80­20 policy, allowli for two commit­tees to decide how to use the money, he said. 
The first committee, headed by ·Student Body Treasurer Eric Par­zianello, makes recommendations to the senate how 80 percent of the funds should be spent. The remain­ing 20 percent, from which class 1 
1

governments receive their funds, Is reviewed by a committee headed by ,1 Joni Neal, director of Student Ac­tivities. 
see FEES, page 4 
1 
,1 
1 
1
, 
1 
~ 


University Hair Stylisls is among tbe businesses currently located in Badin Hall which likely wtll be moved to LaFortune Student Center after renovations are completed there. Story at left. 
tributions  to  journalism,  I  the ad reads, everybody has  
found  a  colorful  tabloid  holes in their vinyl; why not  
which could change the life  cash  in  on  vinyl  repair  
of every American studies  mania?  
student.  My  favorite  ad,  which  
Before my eyes was a 32­ spells doom for doctors and  
page  paper  loaded  with  their big wallets, proclaims  
money-making suggestions.  that a $40 ultasound device  
Editorially,  the publication  can control most pain. No  
contains  articles  offering  more ointments, aspirin or  
advice  on  certain  proven  antacids. Just send for a few  
business  ideas:  printing  of the units and sell them at  
photos  for  friends  and  an  inflated  price  to  
relatives;  operating  a  desperate bed-ridden slobs.  
roommate  referral service;  You'll be doing mankind a  
installing stereos in cars and  huge favor.  
homes; planning parties for  The classifieds  are  a  bit  
fun and profit; and many ot­hers, which "estimate"  I0/1  more direct. "Obscene Profits" are possible, accord­ 

r The Observer 
Tuesday, October 1, 1985 -page 2
' 



In Brief 
Father Albert Lawrence Schlitzer former 
chairman of the theology department at Notre Dame, died' in Holy Cross House yesterday after a short illness. He celebrated his 83rd birthday Monday. Friends may visit after 3:30 p.q1. Sunday at the Moreau Seminary Chapel where a wake service is scheduled for 7:30 
p.m. The Funeral Mass at 3:30p.m. Monday in Sacred Heart Church 
will be followed by burial in the Community Cemetary. -The Obser­ver 
President Reagan signed a stopgap bill yesterday to pay for government spending for the next 45 days and called on Congress to promptly enact separate appropriation legislation that holds the line on outlays. The measure, which expires Nov. 14, generally holds total appropriations at a level below fiscal 1985, which expires today. It freezes defense spending at S292.6 billion, the same level as in 1985. Among other provisions, the measure prohibits U.S. military aid to Nicaraguan guerrillas trying to topple the leftist Sandinista regime. Reagan, in a statement, urged Congress to enact regular appropriation bills "without delay" and within the spending limits prescribed by the House-Senate budget resolution. 
-AP 
Of Interest 
The Women in the Workplace Series at Saint 
Mary's will present Sandra Bate, president of IMPRINT, tomorrow 
night at 6:30 in the Haggar College Center. Bates will speak on 
"Challenges and Opportunities for Women in Business." The 
presentation will include an informal discussion. -The Observer 
Two of the most prominent cardinals in the 
United States, Joseph Cardinal Bernardin of Chicago, and John Car­
dinal O'Connor of New York, will speak today at 4 p.m. in Was­
hington Hall. The forum will be broadcast live at the Center for 
Continuing Education auditorium, where open seating will be 
provided. The cardinals will address issues of economics, abortion 
and other topics of Catholic social thought. The program will in­
clude a discussion with questions posed by several faculty members, 
and a question-and-answer session with the audience. Tickets will be 
required for admittance to Washington Hall. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's photographers who are in­
terested in taking pictures for The Observer should meet at The Observer office on the third floor of the Haggar College Center tonight at 9:30 for an informational meeting. Darkroom experience is necessary. Any questions? Call Margie Kersten at 284-4425. -The Observer 
Student photo ID cards are now available for those students who had their ID photographs taken between Aug. 23 and Sept. 6. The cards may bepicked up at the Registrar's Office, 21 5 Administration Building, from 8 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. and from 12:30 
p.m. to 4:30p.m. Monday through Friday. Students must return both the plastic Vali-dine card and the temporary paper card to pick up their new ID. There will be a S5 charge for each lost temporary card. -The Observer 
Bahamas Senior Trip. All seniors going on the senior trip to the Bahamas must have a birth certificate with a raised seal. Photocopies are not acceptable. Seniors may call their hometown Board of Health or their· parents to get their certificate 
before October Break. -The Observer 

Weather 
October is here, but don't bother checking your calendar for proof ... just step outside. It will be party cloudy and cool today with highs in the mid-50s to around 60. Clear­ing skies are expected tonight with lows in the high 30s to low 40s. The skies will be bright tomorrow, but don't expect the sun to add much warmth. The high is expected to be only 
50. -The Observer 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except· during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the studentsof the Unlversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( 120 per se· mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Pn.ss. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Design Editor .............Jane Anne Riedford Design Assistant..............Tracy Schindele Layout Staff., ........................... K:uen Webb Typesetters ...................... Suzanne Hammer 
Mary Ellen Harrington News Editor .............................Scott Bearby Copy Editor....................... Mark PankowSki Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor........... Miriam Hill Viewpoint Layout.................... Miriam Hill Features Copy Editor...............Tim Adams Features Layout....................John Mennell ND Day Editor ......................... Doug Hasler SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla K:rrle Photographer ..................... Paul Pahoresky Ad Design ............................Sharon Emmite 
Mary Carol Creadon Dally Quotes ........................... Tom Darrow 
:'c):
,, ' 




Getting rich quick is no problem, even for Arts and Letters majors 
Let's face it, fellow senior Arts and Letters studiers, we're destined to make money next year. Forget the writings of our colleagues, which have bemoaned our Bob financial futures. And don't offer to sell your soul to 
Musselman
some obscure law school. There is hope. Of course, we're going to have to work hard for our 
Assistant News Editor 
money -we made that decision four years ago when we decided C.P.A. and M.D. didn't sound well at the end of 

our names. It'll be an interesting and imaginative project, however, kind oflike looking for a cool spot in O'Shaughnessy. 
For startles, we could form a club, buy several 30­foot otiShore racing boats and establish a trade route between some "agriculturally-oriented" South American country and southern Florida. We might even garner a guest spot on "Miami Vice." 
Illegal activities aside, there are innumerable ways to generate payments for a BMW. Brousing through a hometown grocery store over the weekend, checking out The Star's latest con-
potential profits at between n 1,000 and S50,000 a year. It's simple; just read the articles and start counting your cash. 
The really good ideas are found in the ad areas, which occupy most ofthe tabloid's territory. These ads, many poorly written and most promising huge profits with small investments, could be the answer to our col­lective problems. 
For example, one guy tells, in a full page blurb, how he learned to make SS,OOO in 2 days. Down and out, unable to clothe his family, he got an incredible idea which led to his miraculous income. It doesn't require selling, and our hero assures readers that the scheme is both moral and ethical. For no, he'll send his book. He guarantees, pictured next to his new German cars, that his idea will generate ·the promised figure -or your money back. 
That's $14,600,000 a year, sports fans. 
Another ad offers "instant personality," with tape courses in memory, "non-manipulative selling," "speed 
Wednettday Comedians 10~12 Dancing after 12 Thanday 75' Shots of Mellon Balls All Night lit­.Friday A Satllnlay 75' Shota of Root Beer All Night ~ **********************************~ 

learning," and vocabulary expansion. How about a 4" by 6" card file containing 1,400 "sparkling laugh­makers?" It's probably not the way Johnny Carson got his start, but it's certainly a beginning. 
A tax service offers to teach "folks without special education or experience," how to prepare tax state­ments. Tremble in your boots, all you Hayes-Healy types. 
Vinyl repair, amazingly not offered through our art department, is a sure way to make $25 an hour, accord­ing to another ad. After all, 
ing to one source, by operat­ing a "complete adult mail order program." 
Need "$20,000 free," without obligation to repay? Write this California company, because "anyone's eligible." And who would guess that repairing windshields and plate glass could be a 560,000-a-year job? 
I've touched on only a few topics this wonderful publication, and already I can see that new BMW in the driveway of my gaudy new home. 
Anybody wanna buy a bridge? 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
• UnltadW.U 
25' Drafts All Night 
"'' Uve Professional 


Tuesday, October 1, 1985 -page 3






' eo ' 
YOUR FATHERS MUSTACHE 
FAMILY HAIRCUTTERS University Park Mall 277-3770 
Room selection procedure heads Board of Governance discussions 
ByKUKBERLYTRENNER 
Senior StaffReporter 
"We would prefer that people who want to live together, live together," said Pat Rissmeyer, direc­tor of residence life and housing, at last night's Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting. 
Rissmeyer's comments came during her speech addressing what she felt were problems with the cur­rent system ofroom selections . 
"In the past students have met their roommates while waiting in line during room selection," she said. "Often in big rooms people live together only because they want to live in a specific dorm," she said. 
The problem which results is that students find they are unable to live together because they have conflict­ing personality traits, Rissmeyer said. 
Alternative methods of room selections currently are being dis­cussed, she said. One possible way of ensuring students of a specified room size would be to hold room picks for triples, quads and quints on separate nights, she said. 
Such a system would prevent stu­dents from making the mistake of choosing "convenient" roommates and it would make the bigger rooms more available to students truly desiring them, Rissmeyer said. 
Rissmeyer also discussed the pos­sibility ofstudents taking the Myers­Briggs test before making their room picks. 
"It is an extensive personality test," she said. "Results have shown that people with the same dominant characteristics can live better toget­her," said Rissmeyer. 
Rissmeyer also discussed the new lofts installed this year. "We hope to work the kinks out of the system so that things will run smoothly next year," she said. 
Complaints with the system ranged from unclear blueprints to lofts that arrived late, Rissmeyer said. On the whole, however, stu­dent response has been positive, she said. 
"We are planning to do an inspec­tion soon, we are waiting until all lofts have been delivered," said Ris­smeyer. 
Rissmeyer funher addressed the problem of students arriving early each year during freshman orienta­tion. "Is it fair to allow returning stu­dents to come back early?" she asked. 
"We make so many exceptions each year that the dorms become chaotic and there are not enough cans for incoming freshmen," said Rissmeyer. "Early arrivals also take time away from the R.A.'s and hall directors," she said. A change in 
policy currently is being discussed, she said. 
In other matters, the possible creation of a Jaycees' chapter was discussed. This organization provides people between the ages of 18 and 36 with the opportunity to do service functions and charity work in the local community. 
As a national organization, 20 members are needed to be a chaner. There is a membership fee of S30 dollars per year. One benefit of membership in the Jaycees is that upon graduation, students can main­tain their involvement at their new 
locations.  Both  Notre  Dame  and  
Saint  Mary's  students  have  been  
invited to join.  

Also announced at the meeting was a show by Murial Bach tomor­row night at 8 at the Moreau Hall 
'Little Theatre. Bach will be depict­ing the lives ofseveral women in her show, "Freud Never Said It Would Be Easy." McCandless Hall residents will be sponsoring a reception in the foyer outside of the Little Theatre after Bach's show. 
Also discussed at the meeting was the "Shelter for the Homeless," a program run by the city of South Bend. Orientation for those who would like to help will be held at the Fatima Retreat Center on Oct. 13 or 14 from 7 p.m. until I 0 p.m. 
Ace indoor tennis facility planned thanks to Notre Dame alumnus 
By GERRY GOLDNER 
StaffReporter 
Construction workers soon will be making a "racket" once plans are completed for a new S1.2 million in­door tennis facility at Notre Dame. 
The proposed six coun facility, with accompanying locker rooms, pro shop and observation deck, will be underwritten by alumnus Franklin Eck. 
Donald Dedrick, director of the physical plant for the University, said no design plans or construction timetable have been set. 
Dedrick said it will be several more weeks before a decision will be made on who the architect will be. He added, however, that some of the site work had begun, including the analysis of test borings in an at­tempt to reach a final decision on a location. 
The location of the facility has been restricted to the area directly east or west of the outdoor Counney Tennis Center, he said. 
Dedrick estimated a completion date for the facility sometime late in 1986. 
While the Notre Dame's men's and women's tennis team will have access to the facility, its primary use will be as a recreational tennis facility for faculty and students, especially during the inclement winter months, he said. 
Thomas Fallon, Notre Dame's men's varsity tennis coach, said the facility will give the men's team the two-fold advantage. 
"We're excited about the new facility because it will give us a chance to play more tennis during the winter months," Fallon said. "It 
will  also  be  more  attractive  to  
recruits."  
Fallon said  he  was  happy that  

more people would have a chance to play tennis because "there is a great interest in tennis here." He added that the facility with its proposed six courts, observation platform, pro shop, and locker rooms would be a great over the ACC, which was not designed for tennis. 
The facilty will be named Eck Pavilion after its donor, Franklin Eck, and his wife, Bryce. Eck is a graduate of the class of 1944. He earned his undergraduate degree in chemical engineering at Notre Dame and his 

M.B.A. from Harvard University. 
He is currently chairman and president ofAdvanced Drainage Sys­tems, Inc., which produces cor­rugated plastic drainage piping for agricultural and com-mercial purposes. 
Eck is also a member of the Ad­visory Council for the College ofEn­gineering. The Ecks currently reside in Columbus, Ohio. 
Said Athletic Director Gene Cor­rigan, "We are deeply indebted to the generosity of the Ecks in making yet another improvement in the quality of student life at the Univer­sity." 
Correction 

Because of an editing error, photo credits in yesterday's issue were incorrect. Katy Stephan was photographer for the picture ap­pearing on page 3. Paul Clfarelli should have been credited for the page 5 photo. 
~March ~0.ot
1mes 
SAVES BABIES 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 

IJrMfCHIAHA VIDIO 
RENTAL &SALES 3 Movies/3 Days with machine $15°0 
wide selection Including Amadeus, Missing In Action II 
MICHIANA VIDEO 
12130 us 23 GRANGER 277·5441 
SUN 12-e 


The Observer Tuesday, October 1, 1985-page 4 

Planner residents jim Fitzpatrick and George Purcell decided to relieve some school-induced ten­sion last night by having a shoot-out in the 
Pilots of deadly crash informed severe storm was 'only a little rain' 
Aallodated Press 
WASHINGTON -In the minutes before Delta Flight 191 crashed while trying to land at the Dallas­Fon Wonh International Airpon, a thunderstorm was dearly apparent and a pilot who just had landed noticed what he thought was a tor­nado along the approach. 
But National Transportation Safety Board documents indicated yesterday the pilot of Flight 191 never was warned of the storm's severity. Less than 10 minutes before the crash he was told by air­traffic controllers that there was "only a little rain" nonh of the air­
pon. 
Investigators have speculated that the Aug. 2 crash, which killed 136 people, was caused by wind shear, a severe change ofwind direction that literally forced the Lockheed L-1 0 11 
Observer 
continuedfrom page 1 
Other senate members expressed varying opinions on the request to see The Observer's books. 
Senate member Kevin Howard said,"I think ifthe students don't ask for The Observer's books, they're losing a right." 
"Personally, I don't want to see the books, but I think it's a right that every student has. I think that it's really sad ifwe don't have the right to see the books," he said. 
Junior Class President Jim 
Domagalski agreed with Healy. 
"H the students contribute that 
Fees 
continuedfrom page 1 
Off-Campus Senator Jim Hagan 
said he thought the 80-20 policy 
would be "a good option" for the 
class governments, because the class 
could apply to the senate for more 
necessary funds. 
"How can that be damaging to the 
class officers? The money would be 
available by application to the 
classes. This would be a good option 
for them," Hagan said. 
Domagalski said he thought the 
decision to use the 80-20 system still 
could be changed. 
"What we still don't know, at least 
in my mind and in (Senior Class jumbo jet into the ground as it was about to land. 
A transcript of exchanges in the cockpit just before the crash sup­potted the wind-shear theory be­cause the crew could be heard struggling to increase power amid the backdrop of engines revving to maximum power. 
"Push it up, push it way up, way 
up," pilot Edward Connors exhoned 
his co-pilot, Rudolph Price Jr. 

"Way up," Price responded, with the sounds ofthe engines increasing power and the "whoop, whoop, pull up pull up" warning of the ground proximity alarm in the background. 
This was followed by a sound similar to a landing and someone saying, "Oh ..." and what the NTSB called a non-printable word. Almost immediately there was the sound of a second impact and silence. 
The flight, from Fon Lauderdale, Fla., was bound for Los Angeles with 
LaFortune gameroom. Fortunately, it was only against a video game. 
an interim stop at Dallas when it en­countered heavy rain, lightning and trecherous winds short of the run­way. The plane first touched down in a field, bounded across a highway where it struck a car and crashed into water tanks before bursting into 6ames. 
According to the transcript from the cockpit voice recorder, the crew was concerned during the approach about severe weather in the area. 
While lightning was seen from the airpon tower and at least 20 pilots saw the severe weather developing to the north end of the airport run­way before Flight 191's arrival "this observation was not disseminated to any flights on tower frequency," the NTSB documents said. 
A recorded weather advisory for incoming aircraft did not refer to "thunderstorm and heavy rain showers" until 25 minutes after the plane crashed. 
Georgia protest ignites into major disturbance 
Associated Press 350 to 600 people gathered at the 
Turner County Courthouse to 
ASHBURN, Ga. -Hundreds of demonstrate following the slaying 
blacks protesting the shootingdeath earlier in the day ofRobert Wright. 
of a black prisoner who tried to 
escape from police began hurling Wright, 22, was charged Sept. 2 in 
rocks and bottles downtown last the armed robbery ofa convenience 
night, breaking store windows and store and was in court for a hearing 
injuring at least two passing to revoke his probation on a 
motorists, authorities said. previous burglary conviction. He 
State troopers and agents from the fled from a second floor courtroom, 
Georgia Bureau of Investigation down the back stairs into an alley, 
were called in from surrounding Whiddon said. 
areas to help restore calm in the When Wright refused an officer's 
town of 4,500 people, said Turner order to halt, the officer opened fire, 
County Sheriff Lamar Whiddon. shooting him in the back, Whiddon 
The disturbance broke out after said. Wright died en route to a Tifton 
6:30 p.m. when a crowd of about hospital. 
SObering~e~, 
cansaveaII~~;(.",. i 
Think Before You Drink ~~ Before You Drive " · 
MICHIANA CLEANERS, INC. 
720 W EDISON RD. 
(LOCATED BEHIND GRAPE RD & HICKORY) MISHAWAKA TEL 255-2001 
HELP WANTED 
COUNTER PERSONNEL 
AND 

LAUNDRYATTENDANT 
HOURS: 3pm till 9pm 9pm till MIDNIGHT 
(PREFERABLY MALE) 

PLEASEAPPLYINPERSON GREAT JOB-PAYS WELL 
NEW YORK CAST 
The Famous Musical Story 
Suggested by the Memoirs of Gypsy Rose Lee Lyrics by Stephen Sondhcirn Book by Anhur Laurents Music by Jule Styne 
"Let Me Entertain You" "Everything's Coming Up Roses" 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11-8:00 p.m. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE .Reserved Seats $10 for info call: (219) 284-4626 Mail Requests to: Saint Mary' a College, 
P.O. Box. 114, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
fee (the $6 Observer fee), then I think the books should be open so they can see what they're spending. Just as they contribute their H5 to us and our books are open," he said. 
"The Observer doesn't have to be any different from student govern­ment, in that we're here trying to serve students. We're giving up our valuable time because we like to help other students and maybe we can work together on some things," he said. 
Healy referred to a Sept. 18 letter from Hamilton to him explaining the advertising rate increase and com­paring other colleges' rates to Notre Dame's. 
"In her reply, she named, I think, five or six newspapers with advenis­ing rates," Healy said. "Most ofthose do not collect student fees. There are two, I believe, that do collect stu­dent fees and those two would release their financial statements." 
"Granted The Observer is an in­dependent newspaper, but they are financially dependent on the stu­dents for their funds. Therefore, I think they should have to reveal their books," said Judith Windhorst, a senate member. 
She said she thinks The Observer would not lose its independence by opening its books to the public. 
"Many newspapers, in fact, real newspapers, do release their books," said Healy. 
President) John Spatz's mind and (Sophomore Class President) Steve Georgi's mind, is that the 80-20 thing is definite. Now I take Bill's word that Father (Tyson) said that, but I've also been told something else by someone else," Domagalski said. 
"Proposals can be made left and right, but nothing will be changed," said Healy, who said his discussion with Father Tyson confirmed his statement. 
"I have to follow what he (Father Tyson)says," Healy said. 
Funher discussion was postponed until official written word is received from Neal and other offi­cials in the administration. 
In other business, Senator KC. 
Culum proposed the formation ofan attendance policy for the senate. "There is a definite problem with people showing up," he said. 
"I would like to see an attendance policy just because in the long run, in the future, an ounce ofprevention is wonh a pound of cure," Culum said, explaining that he could foresee a later situation in which lack ofattendance would directly in­fluence issues. 
He referred to Domagalski's leaving a meeting last year and eliminating a quorum necessary to formulate new policy. 
Abood questioned the need for an 
attendance policy. "I believe we 
shouldn't impose rules which ques­
tion our integrity," he said. 


The Observer Tuesday, October 1, 1985 -page 5 


APPhoto 

With coffins stacked high behind them, three relatives who are missing and presumed dead in women watt outside Mexico City's Benito juarez the rubble of the hospital destroyed by the Hospital, Sunday, for word of their friends or earthquake more than a week ago. 

communiCATIOn 
II. IHfAIRf 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre announces 
Auditions for the Showcase Production of 
The Freedom of The City by Brian Friel 
at the Washington Hall lab Theatre Enter at the Lab Theatre (North) Entrances 
Thursday, October 3, Tlme:7pm-10pm Friday, October 4, Tlme:3pm-6pm Other times by appointment, call Professor Baln • at 239-7170 
aud1lions are open lo all Noire Dame and S01nl Mary's students no expenence IS necessary no pr~pared monologue is requ1red 
Additional Info available at CoTh office, 320 O'Shaughnessy 
Reagan optimistic over peace talks 
Associated Pre118 
WASHINGTON President Reagan expressed optimism yester­day about overcoming obstacles to the opening of Arab-Israeli peace talks this year, while Jordan's King Hussein stressed that negotiations must take place at an international conference attended by the Soviet Union. 
Reagan and Hussein met for nearly an hour in their second round of talks this year. The meeting came against the backdrop of Reagan's an­nouncement Friday of a controver­sial, SI.55 billion weapons package for Jordan. 
The United States and Israel have objected to holding peace talks at an international conference because that would give the Soviet Union a role in shaping the future of the Middle East. Israel does not have diplomatic relations with Moscow, and the Soviets have provided arms to Syria and other Arab countries hostile to Israel. 
A senior ·administration official said Reagan and Hussein focused their talks "very intensively" on the 



and Student Governmen 
present 


Black StudentsI Faculty-Are they necessary? 
Given by 

James Stuart 
Associate Professor of Economics and Black Studies Penn State 
---------........,ednesday, October 2 ---------...C.1 :00pm Library Lounge 
Tax hike takes effect for booze, perfume 
Associated PreM 
WASHINGTON -Americans will 
find liquor and perfume more ex­
pensive and a scheduled tax cut on 
cigarettes likely to be scrapped 
when the government's 1986 fiscal 
year begins today. 
And pressure begins on states to 
adopt tough new laws to collect 
child-support payments from absent 
parents. 
The cigarette tax had been scheduled to drop from I6 cents a pack to 8 cents. Congress now ap­pears likely to approve a bill to keep it at the 16-cent rate -meaning S5 billion in extra revenue over the next three years -and may also add taxes to snuffand chewing tobacco. 
The 8-cent levy may be in effect for a short time because it appeared unlikely the House and Senate could agree by midnight yesterday on details ofa bill extending the full tax. Once a bill is approved, it almost certainly would be retroactive to Oct. I. 
The states have their cigarette taxes, too, and I 7 of them have enacted increases that take effect if the federal levy drops. Of the I7, seven have laws that would roll back the state tax increase if Congress reinstates the full I6-cent federal tax. 
While the Senate Finance Com­mittee has voted to impose a federal 
tax on snuff and chewing tobacco, 
there is no certainty that measure 
will become law. 
That leaves the tax hike on dis­
tilled spirits as the change that 
probably will affect the most people. 
It is projected to add Sl.3 billion to 
the treasury over the next three 
years. 
In recent weeks, many liquor dealers took out advertisements ur­ging their customers to stock up ahead of the tax boost. 
Stocking up helps both the con­sumer who gets his spirits at a lower cost, and the dealer, who is saved taking inventory and paying a spe­cial one-time tax on his stock in hand under the law. 
The tax hike affects distilled 
spirits such as liquor, brandy and 
cordials, but not wine and beer. 
The increase is S2 a gallon, which sounds simple, but isn't. 
Federal taxes are collected on the so-called proofgallon, which is a gal­lon of spirits at I00 proof. 
Because not all liquor is I 00 proof · '50 percent alcohol -the amount of tax varies according to both volume and proof. 
For example, a liter bottle of 86 proof bourbon will have a tax in­crease of4'5 cents; a I. 7'5 liter bottle of90 proofvodka will carry an extra 83 cents and a '500 milliliter bottle of schnapps, at 80 proof, would cost 2 I cents more. 

organization and structure of an in­
ternational conference. 
"I think headway has been made. This is not the moment, this is not the place to get into the details of that headway," said the official, briefing reporters under rules grant­inghim anonymity. 
Reagan and Hussein both have talked about holding negotiations under "appropriate auspices" but have differed on what that should be. 
"We're not excluding anything," said a White House official, speaking privately. "We are exploring what appropriate 'international auspices' might contain. We don't want to get involved in something where Israel is made a spectator." 
Reagan and Hussein made joint statements outside the White House diplomatic entrance before the king left in his limousine. 
Expressing hopes for talks before the end of the year, the president said, "There are complex and sensitive issues whch must be resolved before actual negotiations can begin, but I believe these issues can be resolved." 
He said negotiations should be conducted under United Nations resolutions calling on Israel to withdraw from occupied Arab ter­ritories in return for Arab peace with 
Israel.  
"The  time  to  begin  is  now,"  
Reagan declared.  
Hussein,  condemning  violence  

and terrorism, pledged that Jordan "is committed to a peaceful resolu­tion ofthe Arab-Israeli conflict." 
"We are prepared to join all parties in pursuing a negotiated settlement in an environment free of belligerent and hostile acts," the king added. 
In Hussein's view, the "appropriate auspices" for talks is a 
U.N. 
-sponsored conference at­tended by Middle East delegates and the five permanent members of the 

U.N. 
Security Council: the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain, France and China. 


Another roadblock posed by the king has been has been his proposal that Palestinians tied to the Palestine liberation Organization participate in pre-negotiations talks with U.S. of­ficials. 

Soviets abducted in Beirut 
As8ociated PreM 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Gunmen dragged three Soviet diplomats and an embassy doctor out of their offi­cial cars, fired bullets at their feet and kidnapped them yesterday in Moslem west Beirut, police and wit­nesses said. 
Radio reports said the Soviets were seized from two embassy cars that later were found abandoned near Beirut airport. Witnesses said one of the cars was intercepted by several gunmen. 
They dragged two Soviets out, the witnesses said, fired handguns at their feet, pushed them into a white Mercedes and drove off. The other two Soviets were seized from a second car, police said. 
An embassy spokesman con­firmed the kidnappings but declined to give details. 
They were the first Soviets known to" be kidnapped in Beirut since: gun­men started seizing foreigners in January 1984. Thirty-five foreigners have been abducted since then and 14 other foreigners are still missing ­six Americans, four Frenchmen, three Britons and an Italian. 
Lebanese authorities identified the Soviet diplomats as Second Secretary Valery Kornev, Com­merce Attache Olc:g Spirin, Cultural Attache Arkady Katakov and em­bassy physician Nikolai Versky. 
Anonymous men claiming to represent the terrorist group Islamic Jihad telephoned two Western news agencies in Bdrut and claimed the: Shiite Moslem fundamentalist group had kidnapped the Soviets and would kill them unless Syrian­backed leftists end their siege of Moslem fundamentalists in the nor­thern port city ofTripoli. 


~i~~~_()__i_tt__t________________T_ue-sd-~,_oc-to-be-rl-,19-85--p-age-6 
The Observer should be forced to open its books 
The Observer be scared?

it whether we want to or not and it all goes newspaper.
My name is Reginald Daniel and I am the WVFI and WSND make their financial state­But I always have wondered how indepen­straight to The Observer, no questions asked. 
station manager of the AM student radio sta­Well, I think it is high time we asked. There dent it is when it takes our money and has free ments public. We even beg people to read our tion, WVFI. Now that things have sort of is no way you can tell me that with revenue space on the third floor ofLaFortune. Ifl really statements so we can get funds to stay on the settled down, I felt this was a perfect oppor­air. Yet The Observer continues to refuse. Per­
from an estimated $57,000 in student fees, wanted to do some type of damage to their
tunity to say a belated welcome back to haps we should call for another audit. After all, 
close to $25,000 in advertising fees from stu­independence, I would open a more
campus and sort of let you know what has you never know what you might find. Or
dent government, revenue from outside moderate, independent newspaper off 
.been going on with the station. I will discuss maybe we should call for a student referen­
businesses advertising in The Observer and campus under a privately held group of stu­
most ofthat in a later letter, but first I thought dum to ask the Board ofTrustees to stop hand­dents and alumni. That would be a truly in­
outside subscriptions, that The Observer~ad dependent student newspaper. And, believe I should state my position on the issue of ing over our money so unquestioningly.
to raise the rates as high as it did. The Observer gets approximately $82,000 me, that idea has been brought up mo~;e thanhaving The Observer's financial statements 
made public. As a member ofthe media, I understand The from the students alone. Add to that the once. 
Observer's fears. But because the students are Reginald Daniel reported $11,000 in profit The Observer the ones who allow The Observer to do what made, and one does not have to be an accoun­
Let's face it, The Observer is definitely not 
it does by reading the paper, by working for tant to figure out that there is probably some­
God's gift to Notre Dame or the journalistic the paper as reporters and typesetters, by
guest column thing wrong somewhere, or that perhaps The world. Why else would we call it "The Rag?" I 
sticking up for The Observer from time toworked there for a year and a half before I saw Observer is hiding something. 
time and defending it as not just a collegethe light. Whatever the case, the point is that
Ofcourse, all ofthat is mostly logical deduc­there is no jeopardy to The Observer's in­For those ofyou who have been sleeping in newspaper run by juveniles, the students have 
a coffin, the reason I and the other members of tion based on the information we have, and I a right to see those statements. the student media and student government could be totally wrong in that belief. The only By not making them available, The Obser­
dependence in letting the students see The real way to tell is to see The Observer's finan­
Observer's financial statements, unless, as I
want those statements made public stems ver only gives justification to all the assump­from the recent increase in advertising fees cial statements. But The Observer has refused. tions and cheapshots thrown at it from the
suggested earlier, there is something wrong. And what about you students? Aren't you
The Observer has instituted, as well as the The Observer believes that by giving the stu­outside and brings further embarrassment.to
just a wee bit curious about how The Obser­
feeling that as long as The Observer gets $6 of dents the statements and justifying the in­the other members ofthe student body. And if , my money without question, it ought to at creases in ad rates, control ofthe paper would The Observer loses the only support it has,
ver spends your money? You screamed when the University raised tuition; you yelled when 
r least have the decency to tell me how the be lost. In effect, The Observer believes we then it has lost the only reason it is here on this 
the University decided to take kegs from tail­
money is being spent. would take it over. campus.r Think about it -there are approximately Well, I personally have no interest in run­gaters. Every year every profit and non-profit or­
9,500 students at this University who pay tui­ning The Observer either financially or
~ ganization in this nation publishes financial Reginald Daniel is a senior in the College 
tion, and included in that bill there is one line editorially. After all, I have enough problems statements, and they are not taken over by ofBusinessAdministration and the stationthat says "Observer Fee," or something to that with WVFI. The Observer has been, and will stockholders or contributors, so why should manager ofWVFI.
effect. We have no say in not paying it; we pay always continue to be, an independent 

P.O. Box Q 
Or maybe I'll try something new this col:ol intake; it has restricted the situations in continue to love Notre Dame even with its
Alcohol policy never 
weekend-like having some fun. Yes that's it, which I can drink. faults. 
Edward G. Bielski
fun. After all, Dad always did say to have fun In essence, it restricts my socializing and
in students' best interest Morrissey Hall 
and make friends in college. Or was dear old NOT my drinking. Because ofthis I cannot ac­Dad just pulling my leg? cept the policy as logical or for my best inter­Dear Editor: Let's not play games here. Sure there are est. I have trouble smiling on a policy that 
Nothing ever funny 
On Sept. 25, D.). Doyle wrote an enlighten­things to do at Notre Dame. But there are also treats me like a child in a place where I am ing letter that opened my eyes to the stupidity things to do in Russia; and I know I would rat­supposed to be an adult. Ifpeople are treated 
about war memorials
of my ways. Imagine, all this time I have her not live there. I too get tired of people like adults, they act like adults. suckered myself (most likely due to peer saying that our social life is over. I've had a Oh sure, my interests are cared for in this pressure) into believing the alcohol policy great time this year and so can others with a policy; .if the University is sued too much my Dear Editor: restricted my actions and cramped my social little drive, some creativity and a road trip tuition will go up. In this way, it is for my finan­Today as I was walking past the site for the life. Dear God . . . what a foolhardy youth I here and there. cial interest. But let's not fool ourselves. This new war memorial fountain, I overheard a few have been. And if worse comes to worse, I too always policy and the fact that kegs are not being naval ROTC students in uniform making 
Doyle said it would be impossible to attend can punt and see a movie on campus. allowed on Green Field are just two more ex­derogatory comments in reference to the all of those fun Notre Dame events on a given To say the alcohol policy is "in our best in­amples that show money talks louder than memorial. They said,"This is going to be the stupidest thing there ever was," and,"It's
weekend. OK Doyle, I'm with you this terest," however, is not only naive but un­morality. weekend. We'll bop around to those "lectures productive. I'm sorry, I just can't take an Many hardliners out there may say to me, going to be hilarious, I'm going to see it every and countless meetings" you spoke of. And alcohol policy as reasonable when it really "Love Notre Dame or leave it." I say to you, day and laugh at it." you know I can't wait to go to your "slew of doesn't even involve alcohol. "PIPE DOWN!" I do love this school and never To these students I have this to say -who's
~ 
club meetings." Under the alcohol policy, I can do shots in will leave. I also love my dorm and the things going to laugh when they are putting up a
r· 
Maybe we even could consider doing some my room until I die and as long as I am quiet, I it has to offer. The pluses here far outweigh memorial for you? Let's hope there won't be a
r
,. other "fun" things like watching our clothes will not get in any trouble. But if I have a large the minuses. need for one. But remember, there is nothing mold or playing parcheesi. But hey, you better group of people in my room dancing and To accept the wrongs of this policy, ugly or funny about something built inr give me a chance to watch the Brady Bunch. having a good time, drinking nothing more however, is to accept mediocrity and inade­memory of soldiers who died for their
r 
Indeed, when last I saw, Bobby and Cindy than Moutain Dew, then my party will be quacy. I refuse to do this; so I must continue to country.r were lost in the Grand Canyon and I simply broken up. look on the policy with disgust. But I also will George Perry
r 
Morrissey Hall
r must know what happens. The alcohol policy has not restricted my al-continue to find fun and most importantly, 
r 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
' 
r 
r 
f 
f3XCU58 M£3, 
U/AK8 UP, AMeRICA! THANK YOU. 7Ht.
GfXJfJPWPL&! MY 
Ntxr5HOWS
HIJ58ANfJ EJ.MOI-IT 
AR&AT5:00
we NEEP

HA$ AM&$$AGE3 
ANfJB:oo.
1

FOR YOU! 
TAXES." I 
Quote of the day 

"October's poplars are flaming torches lighting the way to winter." 
NovaS.Bair 
"Copper's W eeldy" 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton  Business Manager ..................... David Stephenltch  
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan  Controller...................  .William J. Highducheck  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admm1strat1on of e1ther 1nst1tut1on. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  News Editor ...................................Keith Harrison Jr News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Samt Mary"s Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief ..............................................Frank Lipo  Advertising Manager .......................... Jim Hagan Systems Manager... . ......... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ...................... John A. Men nell Founded November 3, 1966  

-
Accent 
Tuesday, October 1, 1985-page 7 
Paisley rears its amoeba-shaped head again 

Mary Jacoby pattern has been updated for the 
'80s success-oriented society. Its wild curves have been scaled down 
assistant features editor 
R
emember paisley, that wild and groovy clothing material so popular In the '60s? Well, it's back! 
Personally, I don't like it because 
it reminds me of the time my little 
sister had impetigo. All those fester­
ing, oozing scabs running wild on 
her body. Yuck! 
But like it or not, paisley is 
definitely back as a fad. Just look 
around. Everyone's wearing those 
shirts with the little amoeba pat­
terns on them. Features on paisley 
have appeared in magazines ranging 
from Seventeen to GQ. Why the 
current fa.'lcination with the stuff? 
"Oh, I don't know," Saint Mary's junior Karen Cook said. "It's just really cool." 
junior Dave Scheidler was more specific: "Paisley is progressive. It reminds me ofhairy caterpillars." 
Don't stop reading. because now this article is going to get really academic as I attempt to answer one of the most urgent questions facing Yuppie civilization: "What made Paisley a fad?" 
First, we must keep in mind that paisley is making its second ap­pearance on the fashion pages. 
During the psychedelic movement and printed neatly in tasteful colors of the '60s, paisley was also very on button-down shirts. Really, '60s fashionable attire, except the paisely was just too outlandish. It people who wore paisley back then ran all over the place in the most -well, they just plain looked bad. obnoxious orange, purple, and All that long, stringy hair, weird green colors. But today's paisley chains ofbeads, and leather sandals. can be worn anywhere with ease · Those people simply did not do from an afternoon boardroom paisley justice. meeting with the boss to a night out 
Now. thank heavens, the paisley on the town. It's that versatile. 

' 

The paisley ball actually began concert, and since the music press rolling about three years ago when was having trouble describing their 
' ,, ' . :~~-..., d"":~ ;;,.-.; ' " /,' . 
,..._.-.tl:A"'"""•o<,.".::~ r/1, 
The Observer/Paul Pahoresky 
Nick Griffin lounges in a paisley shirt; a paisley-clad set oflegs rest on him. 
R.E.M. released their highly­acclaimed first album, Murmur. If you look closely on the back cover you'll see that bassist Mike Mills is wearing a paisley shirt. It is even possible that the scarfaround Mic­hael Stipe's neck is also paisley­styled. 
It seems that various members of 
R.E.M. began wearing paisley in 
--<<
·"il' 
sound • which wasn't exactly rock, 
pop, folk, or the bland "new" music 
· the term "paisley underground" 
was coined to cover all relatively 
unknown bands with similar direc­
tions. 
Prince has a song on his most recent album called "Paisley Park." "Man in Motion" byjohn Parr, the theme song from the movie "St. Elmo's Fire,'' has a line which says something to the effect of "underneath the paisley skies." It's even possible to buy paisley under­wear. I've seen it. 
Sorry to break everyone's heart, but all the really cool people recognized lhe merits ofpaisley a long time ago and have conse­quently moved on to another fad so as to stay ahead of the pack. Now the rest ofcivilization (i.e. the pack) is innundated with paisley. 
The re-emergence ofpaisley is proof that tastes run in cycles. By my calculations, that means in about 15 years, E.T.'s scabby little face will be plastered once again on every available piece of mer­chandise in American stores. So don't throw out your E.T pajamas. like paisley, they also might be the rage again sometime in the future. 

Bach displays versatility in one-woman show 

Special to The Observer 
W 
ithin the space of60 minutes, 
actress-authoress Muriel Bach 

delves into the lives ofa slew of 
famous women, and emerges with 
an amusing and touching presenta­
tion of their struggles in her one­
woman show, "Freud Never Said It 
Was Easy," which comes to Saint 
Mary's for an 8 p.m. performance 
tomorrow in Moreau Hall little 
Theatre. 
Bach recreates scenes from the 
lives ofdifferent women who all 
attempted to fulfill psychologist 
Sigmund Freud's prescription for a 
healthy human being-love and 
work. 
Some could. Some couldn't. But "Freud Never Said It Was Easy" gives the audience an opportunity to share moments in the lives of Agatha Christie, the world's biggest­selling writer ofdetective stories; Clara Schumann, brilliant concert pianist and wife to composer Robert Schumann; Colette, writer ofsensitive, sensual novels and the only French woman ever to receive 
a state funeral; Emma Goldman, union organizer, notorious for her love affairs; lillian Gilbreth, first renowned female efficiency expert (and mother of 12 children); and Golda Meir, Israel's prime minister. 
WANTS YOU The features department is accepting applications for: Features copy editor Applications are due 5 p.m. Oct. 4 For more information contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-5313  

Those who choose to spend an 
hour with Muriel Bach will come to 
know these women -and them­
selves · better. 
Today, while so many actresses 
bemoan the dearth of"good" parts, 
Bach remains satisfied with what 
the theatre has offered her. For the 
past 25 years, she has researched, 
written, staged and portrayed the 
lives ofnoteworthy women in the 
context ofone-woman theatre. 
In sketches titled "OfAll the 
Nerve," "Freud Never Said It Was 
Easy;: and "Madam, Your Influence 
is Showing," Bach also highlights 
the lives ofEleanor Roosevelt, 
Theda Bara, Gertrude Stein, Maria 
Montessori, Eleanor ofAquitaine, 
Helen Keller, as well as the mothers 
ofthe Wright Brothers, john Wilkes Booth, Thomas Edison, Florence Nightingale, Arthur Compton and Mohandas Gandhi. Each separate program depicts the lives ofsix women who share a common bond. 
When researching the people she portrays, Bach looks for a certain moment in their lives in which a 
significant change occurred. "I 
spend about a year researching and 
writing each program and in­
evitably find that my own life is 
immeasurably enriched by coping 
with the crises ofothers. Everyone 
needs inspiration, hut just knowing 
that others have had problems is 
not enough. Seeing what motivated 
them and how they coped -that I 
find inspiring! And It's gratifying to 
know that I can share those ex­
periences with so many people," 
she said. 
Being a writer and performer is 
not all she does. In addition to 
doing the research, writing and 
performing, Bach designs the 
costumes and lighting sets, which 
she carries with her for all engage­
ments. "In this company the cast 
and crew are the same size ... five­
feet-four," she laughs, "but we grow 
with each challenge." 
Tickets are $1.00 for Saint Mary's 
students and faculty, and $3.00 for 
the general public. They are 
available at the St. Mary's Ticket , Office; call 284-4626. There will be 
a reception following the perfor­
mance. 


-
J

Tuesday, October 1, 1985-page 8
Sports Briefs 
The ND golf team's gold squad won the 
Notre Dame Invitational yesterday on the Burke Memorial Golf Course with a composite score of 365. The Irish blue team was second with a 3 78, and Aquinas finished third with a 391. John An­thony turned in the best score, a 71. The Irish will be in action again in the MCC Championships beginning next weekend at the Golf Club oflndiana in Zionsville. -The Obseroer 
It's ND VS. SMC II, as the Saint Mary's soccer team meets the Notre Dame Women's Soccer Club for the second time this season today at 4:30p.m. on Stepan Field. In the last meeting, the Irish beat the Belles, 3-1. -The Obseroer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
tonight at 6:30p.m. on the boathouse dock. -The Obseroer 
Novice BoxingTournamentparticipants must report for physicals tonight at 8 p.m. in the varsity training room in the ACC. -The Obseroer 
The ND /SMC Ski Club will be meeting tonight at 
6:15 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. Anyone who is interested in a trip to Colorado or weekend trips may attend. -The Obseroer 
f S ·
"Speaking 0 ports," the sports talk show with Chuck Freeby and Vito Gagliardi, will feature an open phone line when it airs tonight at 10 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. Listeners may call 239-6400 to join the cohosts on the air.-The Obseroer 
The ND junior class will sponsor a softball festival on Friday beginning at 4 p.m. Teams will consist of 10 juniors, four of whom must be women. Prizes will be awarded to the winnng team, as well as to the team with the most creative uniform, and food will be provided for all participants. The $5 entry fee may be given to dorm reps or to junior class reps at the dining halls today and tomorrow from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. -The Obseroer 
The novice fencing program will begin on 
Monday at 6:30p.m. in the fencing gym above Gate 4 ofthe ACC. Any students, both men and women, who are interested may attend the first sessibn in athletic attire. Thereafter, practices will be every Monday and Wednesday from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. For more in­formation, contact fencing coach Mike DeCicco. -The Obseroer 
Bodyfat measurementswill be provided by NVA on Monday from 7:15p.m. to 9 p.m. at the NVA in the ACC. The testing is free for all students, faculty and staff. -The Obseroer 
NVA co-ree basketball rosters offive men and five women are due Wednesday, Oct. 9, at the NVA office in the ACC. Call 239-6100 for more information.-Tbe Obseroer 
NVA racqetball tournament entries are due Wednesday, Oct. 9, at the NVA office in the ACC. The best-of-three singles tourney includes three divisions: men's, women's and grad­faculty. Call239-6100 for more information.-The Obseroer 
NVA volleyball tournament entries are due Wednesday, Oct. 9, at the NVA office in the ACC. Two tournaments­one for co-ree teams of three men and three women, and one for graduate student and faculty -are planned. Call 239-6100 for more information. -The Obseroer 
Handball and badminton tournaments have been planned by NVA. The deadline for entries is Wednesday, Oct. 9, at the NVA office in the ACC. Call239-6100 for more information.­Tbe Obseroer 
A horseback riding trip is being planned by NVA for Sunday, Oct. 13, at the Happy Trails riding stables. Advance registration and payment of a S7 fee for one hour of riding are re­quired by Wednesday, Oct. 9. For more information, call239-6100.­
The Obseroer 

More NVA information is available by calling 239-6100 or by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC. -The Obser­ver 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Obseroer 
Interhall 
continuedfrom page 12 

Alumni coach Paul Laughlin was 
pleased with the performance ofhis 
team. 

"We had a lot ofraw edges that we improved upon, but we haven't peaked yet," he said. "Each week we are improving, learning more, and gaining a better overall concep­tualization ofour program." 
Meanwhile, Zahm gained its first victory with a 7-0 shutout of Cavanaugh. They overcame a rocky start and scored as Steve Dombrowski raced off-tackle into the end zone for the game's only score. 
In the Rockne Division, Howard evened its record at 1-1 with a 9-6 decision over Pangborn. Matt Buck­ley booted a 44-yard field goal while Tom Passinault caught a pass tipped by two defenders and ran it in for the score. 
Sorin was able to knock offSt. Ed's 
14-0 to remain undefeated. but they 
will be facing another unbeaten foe 
in Carroll Hall. 

Action resumes this Sunday at 1 
p.m. as Flanner goes against Keenan on North Stepan while on South Stepan a pair of undefeated teams, Grace and Morrissey, will battle it out. 
Morrissey coach Steve Elder was optimistic about his team after last week's performance. 
"I haven't seen Grace play yet," he said. "Things seemed to come toget­her for us so I'm pretty optimistic about our chances this week." 
Also, Zahm takes on Holy Cross on North Stepan at 2 p.m. 
Furthermore, Alumni will take on Stanford on South Stepan at 2 p.m. 
At 3 p.m. Pangborn plays St. Ed's on North Stepan while Sorin battles Carroll on South Stepan. 
Finally at 4 p.m. Dillon will be up against Off-Campus on North Stepan. 
Already there are many important games for teams eyeing playoff spots, as the number of undefeated teams continues to dwindle. 
The Obser1•er ~otrt· Dam" offitl'. I<Jl'atnl on tht· third lloor of Latortunt· Stulll'nt Cl'nt.,r. actt'pts da"ilk<.l a<.ln·rtisin!( from') a.m. until 4 p.m.. :\lon<.lav through fri<.lav. Tbe Ob5erl'er Saint :\lary's offict'. locatt·<.l on tht· third lloor of lla!(gar Colkgt' Cl'ntt'r. at'l'l'pts dassifk<.ls from 12:.~11 p m until :\p.m.. Mon­day though fridaY. lka<.llinl' h>r lll'XI·lla\· dassilk<.ls is -~ p m. All da"ifk<.ls must hl' prl'pai<.l. dthl'r in pl'rson or hy mail.< .hargo.: is III <Tills pa fin·t·harac-
Classifieds 
lt'rs r <.lav. 

La.t: blue back pack in lOUth DH 8/24 LOST: Set of 15 keya on two intercon­RIDE NEEDED TO MADISON WIS. THIS LADIES OF COLUMBUS KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS west end at lunch contenta: canv. Con­nected ringa on 8/18/85. If you think that WEEKLASSES-JUST PLEASE ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING WEDS. MEETING OCT 2 AT 7:00 AT COUNCIL 
NOTICES verae lhoea, T.H. South T-lhirt and you have found them, pi-call Jon at RETURN MY CLASS NOTES TO 210 OCT2AT8:30PM ATTENDANCE IS MANDATORY lhorta,aocka and notebook ~ found 2n-a111 or 2311-6471. PleueiNve your KEENAN. TRY TO ATTEND OR CAU. 283-10921F pleue call Kathleen at3884 THANKS! name end number. INTERESTED 
LOST: BLUE JANSPORT BACKPACK Found:wri-tch.Found Friday night on Shalla llo, We hope "the magic" wiM be TYPING AVAILABLE AT SOUTH DINING HAU., TUESDAY, south quad between Lyons and Filher with you always. Love the P .C.'s 287-4082 LUNCH, 24 SEPT. IF PICKED UP CAU. arN. Description needed. Cel 3046. PERSONALS 
NO 110111111111. NICE GUY I 
287 5623, OR DROP BY BASEMENT OF How many diahn of ice cream, Mary? ARCH. BLDG. ASK FOR ALF. :a.t: Gold -lch;Pu-.n-Cleveland 
BRIDGET THE FAT COW BED 'N BREAKFAST, FOOTBALL
TYPING CALL CHRII 2J4-8117 Street. Contact Katie at 284-5157 John, What don 'Bridge Over Troubled
LIVE, IN RARE FORM WEEKENDS, NO & SMC PARENTS. 
STOLEN: BROWN "INDIANA JONES" Water' REALLY mean? -Silvergiri(Aiiu 
• 
SOUTH DINING HAU., TONIGHT ONLY TWO NITE MINIMUM. 10 MINS. FROMWordproceMinu STYLE HAT, MY LITTLE SISTER SPENT BE THERE Kathleen from England) 
CAMPUS. CALL 291-6152 . C8ll Ooloree 2n-6045 THREE WEEKS SAVING HER Al· HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BEEKER 
LOWANCE TO BUY IT FOR ME AND 
CHESTER, SHE WILL BE SHATTERED IF I COME Where have you been? I've miued To the CUTEST GIRL we know ... Happy WANTED-Drivera needed to deliver The 
HOME WITHOUT IT. PLEASE RELIEVE Birthday ROSEBUD!! I
I· FOR RENT THANKIIT. JUDI you.
Obeerver. Takee Mlout 2 houra a day, YOUR CONSCIENCE AND MAKE MY ANNEgood pay. If intereeted call Mark Potter at 
LITTLE SISTER HAPPY AGAIN. CAU. SENIORS IIIKI, HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY!!! 23&-5303 or 2450. Drivera needed for all 
1644 OR DROP IT OFF AT 168 DILLON I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO
FOR 1886-87, CONSIDER WORK WITH 
daya. 
(NO QUESTIONS ASKED) THANKS Roommate needed to lhare 3br houae CELEBRATING SOON. MAYBE THIS 
c:1o1e to NO. Cal287-4748 PROGRAM IN CHILE. APPUCATION CONCIEJIIT. Come aee Kerry Anne TIME WE'LL REALLY GO OUT (tee hee). 11~ WEEKLY/UP IIIAIUNG Clflt. 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES ATTINllON: EXCLUIIV,IIIIECOIIIDIIII 
LOST: ROOM KEY WITH KEY CHAIN DEADLINE NOV. 7. CALL MARY ANN O'brien and "friend" perform their world DINNER IS ON ME FIRST CHANCE WE CULARif NO QUOTAII IINCIEfiiiLY 
WITH NO CATHEDRAL. CALL 2736 OR SEEKING FEMALE ROOMMATE AT GET. GOOD LUCK WITH AU. YOUR
ROEMER 7848. renound duet at O'Laughlin auditorium
INTIIIUTID Ill~ IILF­
DROP OFF AT ROOM 342 PW. NOTRE DAME APTS. CLOSE TO TESTS THIS WEEK, I'LL BE THINKING
Friday October 5, 1885 at7PM. For ticket 
ADOIIIUED INVILOPI: IUCCIII, 
CAMPUS, INEXPENSIVE. CAU. MIC. SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! info. call284·5184. Afghana on sale atthe OF YOU. LOVE, THE GIRL WHO Al· 
PO IIOX 470CIQ, WOODSTOCK, IL 
La.T CALCULATOIII I LOST MY CAL­HELLE AT 283-4027 OR SHIRLEY AT HOI. Y CROSS ASSOCIATE: A CHANCE WAYS HAS A STORY FOR EVERY
door. DON'T IIIIIITIII
110011. 
CULATOR. IrS A HP-11C. PR08ABLY 234-6647. SONG.
TO LEARN, TO GIVE, TO GROW AND LOST IN CUSHING OR FITZ. IF 
TO LOVE. FOR INFO CAU. 23&-5521
p-;;;i;;;;~·;;.;d·.;:.:;;;;;;;;;g·~·iW;;: 
FOUND,PLEASE CALL BOB X1743 FEMALE ROOMMATE OR 23&-7849. Oooolt baby! Only Cyndy'l not a babyConvenient location on N. Ironwood. C8ll 
THANX. NEEDED.NOTRE DAME now. She'a a woman o! the ao·a & reedy
Need 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE2n-4220 for appointment. 
APTS.112/mo.CAU. ALICE 232-6068. for some action onherBDay. catlthiagor­
USC GAME, preferably in the Senior eec­
LOST:One denim jacket with kinda funky ENGINEERING SPAC TUESDAY OC­geoue bMie at 284-4373 & wilh her a
tion .... WILL PAY $$$$!111 Uncia V.
Greg &r.dy zippara up the lide. It -left TOBER 8TH MAKE INFORMED good one.
(218)2n-6856.

in the Engi,_;nu Auditorium on Wed. the CAREER CHOICES (GRAD SCHOOL 
25th. Pieue call Kevin at 2103 ~found. ································································ 
OR INDUSTRY) yyy SIGN UP NOW yyy 
IIOSTON CLUa ausThanks Heape. REGRISTRATION ENDS MIDNIGHT KIIION, t -thinkinu of changinu my
LOST/FOUND I WANTED 
OCTOBER BREAK 
.............................,................................... OCT3RD addr-. Do you have any auggeetiona u
Sign-up Wed W LaFortune Main Lobby LOST: TAN WALLET AT THE LIIIRARY, to what lhouk:l be?! The ctingon -in
liltiNG SSG D£POIIT
LOST: PLATINUM DIAMOND ENGAGE· AROUND THE 2ND OR 13TH FLOORS Needri~lo~anyw~end.c.ll PHILADELPHIA PHILADELPHIA rare form Thuraday night and the cripple MENT RING IN OR AROUND STADIUM 
ON 8/25. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL JIM M.-ia4174. PHILADELPHIA PHILADELPHIA Oc­-feetinu no pain. If the health aervice OR ACC PARKING LOTS. GENEROUS 
AT 272-6016. tober Break bua sign-upa Thuraday Oct. only knew!!! The weather compenaatedREWARD OFFERED. CALL DAVE AT 
WANTED-Drivera needed to deliver the 3, Lafortune ] 8:00 p.m. ?'a call Dave HAPPY aELATED ..IIITHDAY IHEILA for the game and a good time-had by 283-16411. 
ATTENTION DANA BAINBRIDGE!!! Obeerver. Takea eout 2 houra a day, Graham 3270 or Mike Poynton 288-6176 IIIONTWOYIIII"HIEART" IPAII. LOVE, al. 801 South wil ~vein infamy. Love, The YOU LEFT YOUR SCHOOL 10 AND good pay. Drivera needed for el days. If I Ill ENE Obeerver Girl. P.S. NOTE: Tueedays u LOST: PAIR OF ADIDAS CLEATS. LEFT 
VAll-DINE AT PANDORA'S ON SEPT. inter811ed call Marl< Potter at23&-5303 or AS LEWIS TURNS ... Did you' get it thia promiled!lIN "A" LINE LAST WEEK. PLEASE 
23 AND I HAVE IT. YOU MUST BE 2450. weekend? ... AndrN: What -up this Sinead, 1 -geltinu writer'a cramp, so I 
RETURN, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 
STARVING. CAU. MARY'BETH AT 288-weekend? Wick: You can't always get hope thia wiN do lor my punilhmenl· EA T-a Wicked W~end indeed! But CASH REWARD OFFERED. CALL 2002 
55n TO CLAIM. YOU MUST BE DANA NEED RIDERS TO BOSTON AREA FOR who you -nt; even when you try not AE!IIt'a kind of in the pen pal tradition, buatin makn me feel good I'm so aure. OR DROP OFFAT4111STANFORD. 
BAINBRIDGE TO CLAIM. OCTOBER BREAK aometimee. Cora: How's the LC relation­don't you think? If you atop up again, I Well I'm gain to drink till gel myfil. Seema LEAVING AFTER ARMY GAME ON lhip? Pam: Hay! Aren't guys romantic?­promiae that our next viail wiN be ,_ like I'm caught up In your trap again. Ute in -FOUND-Sharp electronic <*c:Uialor, LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. SATURDAY, OCT. 18. Core: Stop -tchi"'l football and atart ac­'reveatinu' on my part! Have a good week! the fut lane. Paul, beware of doge on 
found Mloul a week ago in O'Shag. C8ll REWARD OFFERED. IF FOUND, CAU. PRISCILLA AT 284-5312 Hnu! P.S. Thanx to 5 guys, 5 girls at N.D. Your Official Pen Pal P.S. Relax, Alumni Rape Rd. Shout, ahout tat it all out. Zarf1 Chria at1678to identify. 
PLEASE CONTACT ALICE 232-6069. are joininu the convent. ia atil a aecretll hve. Love ya guys! T er 

The Observer 
Tuesday, October 1, 1985 -page 9 Saberhagen wins 20th, 3-1 
Royals beat Angels to tie for first 
Aaaoclated Press Aase, 9·6, walked Rickey Henderson lead. Chicago tied the game in the leading off and Mauingly followed third on Greg Walker's RBI single. 
KANSAS CITY · Jim Sundberg's with his 34th homer of the season, home run in the seventh inning last tying the game. Dave Winfield Rangers 5, A's 3 night broke a 1-1 tie and helped Bret followed with a double, chasing Saberhagen to his 20th victory and Aase, and Baylor greeted Sammy ARLINGTON, Texas · Bobby Kansas City to a 3·1 triumph over Stewart with a run-scoring ground jones hit a two-run pinch-hit home California, pulling the Royals into a single to right. run with one out in the eighth inning tie with the Angels atop the Aase had not allowed an earned last night to lift the Texas Rangers to American League West. run in his previous 18 innings. Neil a 5-3 victory over the Oakland A's. 
The 21-year-old right-hander, 20· Allen, 1-0, got the victory in relief of Jones' fifth homer of the season 6, threw a five-hitter, outdueling Niekro, who went 7 2·3 innings. helped Jeff Russell, 3-6, to the vic­lcft-hander John Candelaria to join New York won its fifth straight tory. Russell gave up just six hits, Ron Guidry of the New York game and pulled within five games three walks and struck out a season­Yankees as the only 20-game win· of American Legaue East leading high eight batters in eight innings. ners in the AL this season. Guidry is Toronto, which was idle. The Blue Dwayne Henry pitched the ninth, 21-6. Jays' magic number for clinching the earning his third save ofthe season. 
Saberhagen struck out 10 and division remained at three games. The game-winning hit came off walked just two, winning for the jay Howell, 9·7, Oakland's third lOth time in II decisions. Can-Twins 7, White Sox 1 pitcher of the night. delaria, 6-3 for the Angels since being acquired from Pittsburgh Aug. MINNEAPOLIS · Bert Blyleven Giants 4, Reds 3 Z., was pulled from the game after pitched a five-hitter and Kent Hrbek giving up Kansas City's final run in scored the go-ahead run in the third SAN FRANCISCO· Dan Gladden's the eighth on a triple by Willie Wil­inning on Chicago catcher Carlton two-out single in the ninth inning son and a sacrifice fly by George Fisk's error as the Minnesota Twins gave the San Francisco Giants a 4-3 Brett. beat the White Sox 7-1 last night. victory yesterday over the Cincin· 
Sundberg's game-winning homer Kirby Puckett went 4-for-4 and nati Reds and moved the Reds closer came on the first pitch from Can­Dave Engle added a three-run homer to elimination in the National delaria in the seventh and flew far , in support of Blyleven, 16-16, who League West race. over the center field wall, some 4 I 5 struck out seven and completed his The Reds, who managed only feet from home plate. It was his I Oth major-league high 23rd game. three hits, remained 5 1/2 games be­homer of the season, equalling his With the score tied 1-1 in the hind the Los Angeles Dodgers, who career high, and his first since Aug. third, Hrbek's smash off Britt Burns, lost at home to San Diego last night. 
I 0. 18-11, eluded two Chicago out­A win would have assured the fielders for a triple. Shortstop Ozzie Dodgers of at least a tie for the divl· Yankees 5, Orioles 4 Guillen took the relay and threw sion title. home in plenty of time to get Hrbek, The Giants got singles by Greg 
NEW YORK· Phil Niekro failed in trying for an inside-the-park homer, Nokes, jose Uribe and Gladden in New York Mets' catcher Gary Carter, shown here watching tbe his fourth try at winning his 300th but Fisk dropped the ball attempting the ninth off reliever Ted Power, 7-flight of hts two-run homer against Philadelphia last week, bas career game last night, but the New to make the tag. 6. The victory went to Scott Gar­been a big factor in tbe Mets' current surge. New York opens a York Yankees rallied behind Don The Twins made It 3·1 in the fifth relts, 9-4. critical three-game series tn St. Louts tonight. Details are below. Mattingly's two-run, ninth-inning on Mickey Hatcher's sacrifice tly. In homer and a game-winning RBI the sixth, Engle hit his seventh single by Don Baylor for a 5-4 vic-homer and Steve Lombardozzi hit a 
Herzog juggling pitching rotation 
tory over the Baltimore Orioles. sacrifice fly. The Yankees went into the ninth Puckett's first-inning double and ~ 
b • th • •th M t 
inningtralling4-2,butrelieverDon Hrbek'ssinglegaveMi~esotaa 1-0 tOr tg ree-game senes WI e s 
······························~ 
:. -.. THE SAB PRESENTS ~~ : Aa8odatedPress But he has to sweep and he wants "It's in our hands, and that's all I Gooden matched up with (Tudor)." can ask for," said the New York\.~ ~~~.... e ST. LOUIS· The New York Mets Darling, 16-5, will open for the manager. "Now ifwe can sweep, we 
• ~·~~ ~~ ~ ·~ • hadn't even arrived in St. Louis for a Mets tonight against Tudor, who has can control our destiny. I like to be won 19 of his last 20 decisions. joa­able to control our destiny."
: ~0 ~·\~~ •critical three-game series, and Car­
:
~ : dinals Manager Whitey Herzog was quin Andujar, 21-10, the least ef. A New York sweep would leave 
• already up to his tricks. fective of the three St. Louis starters the two clubs tied going into the 
• • After learning that 23-game win· this month, will go against Gooden final weekend. With the Cardinals 
i
• Tuesday' October 1 -Saturday' October 5 • ner Dwight Gooden would not open tomorrow. Aguilera, 10-6, is magic number at four, they would 
• • the series for the Mets, Herzog made scheduled to go Thursday for New clinch the NL east title by winning • • • some rotation changes of his own, York against Danny Cox, 17-9. twice against the Mets. • • Tues. Oct 1 48 Hours 7' 9' 11 • hoping at least to prevent the Mets The Mets pulled within three St. Louis second baseman Tom 
• Wed. Oct2 TradingPlaces 7 9:15 11:30 • fromsweepingtheseries. games of the Cardinals on Sunday Herr said his teammates were ready 
l
1 1 when , Gary Carter hit a two-run for the Mets after dropping two of
••• : Thurs. Oct3 TradingPiaces 7, 9:15,11:30 : s~~eyG~~~e~he:ac:e:: ~~7n:~ 
homer in the 1Oth inning to boost three games to the Expos, who have 
• 
Fri. Oct 4 Beverly Hills Cop 71 9, 11 • day," said Herzog, whose Cardinals New York to a 9·7 victory over the beaten the Cardinals 11 times in 18 

• 
S 0 5 Bev 1 Hill C 7 9 11 • have a three-game lead in the Na-Pittsburgh Pirates while St. Louis games this season. 


•• l
• at. ct er y s op I I • tional League East. "So I decided to was losing to Montreal, 7-5. "We knew ifwe came in here and
• ~
• ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM • move up <Tudor)." "We had to have this win," said won there was nothing the Mets 
4
Mets third baseman Howard could do," Herr said. "But by losing 
~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • : The Mets almost have to win all ----------clipand save -------------three games to have a shot at the NL Johnson after he hit a ninth-inning two we left the door open for them a 
r 1 East title. With that in mind, New home run to tie the Pirates and set bit."II York Manager Davey Johnson up Carter's heroics. The Cardinals play their remain­
DELIVERY 
HOURS: 6:00. Midnight 272-5455 wanted ?ooden, 23-4, togo head to "All we could hope for going into ing six games at the friendly confines 
501 Dtxleway North, Roseland, Indiana head agamst Tudor, 20-8. St. louis is for a chance to catch of Busch Stadium, where they are 
"If I was Davey Johnson and I them," he said. "Now we have that 5I-24 in 1985.NAUGLES TO YOUR DORMII needed a sweep, I'd almost have to chance." The Mets have the three games in MEXICAN KITCHEN AMERICAN KITCHEN do that," Herzog said. "Not that Davey Johnson said he was just St. Louis before returning to Shea 
Reg. Hamburgen · 4 to • pound (Ron) Darling and (Rick) Agullera happy to go into the series with a ,Stadium for a three-game series CUSTOM GRR.l£0 NOT STOCK PILED 
NAUGLE§® 
TICO 1.09 1.69 are not capable of pitching shutouts. chance to tie the Cardinals. against the Expos.
Burrito• Neugleburger 1.99 Been 1.79 2.49 
2 Pa«MI:s with the works
,..... 2.!9 3.29 double chee,.
Combo 2.09 2.79 CheeM 1.89 2.59 Deluxe Hemburger 1.39 
Make any bwnto wei lor 50 cents'! 
2 Pattk!s with lettuce, 
a tomato, mayo dressing
P S. Don't orc:Wr macho unless you're ready for 
ITennis Baseball Standings 
pound of goodwst 
Hemburger 1.19 
I 

2 Pattk!l with pickle, ketchup, 
Nal'hotl lr: CheeH 1.19 

mustard. onion
Haw 101'1'11 -.,uce lor no extra charge to spice them £. continuedfirom page 12 
add c~se .20 

up thai much IT'IOf'e '1::1" Q
Macho N1cho'1 2.19 DESSERTS first year coach by finishing fourth in 
:s AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE sauce, sp6cy !VeeJl .auc.at Hot Fudge 11 Hot Caramel • Strawberry • Orange Q. a field of 32 doubles tandems. Eaet Eaet Blullbary • Chocolate • Cherry • Vanilla • Root Beer 
Refntd beans, chlpt, cheese. peppers. mild llli!lllf 
3.29 Cll "I didn't think we would be that W L Pet. Qll W L Pet. 011 
To•t•d• Gr1nde Shoke• 1.09 Q 98 .632 .628
Toronlo 57 Sl. Louia 9858
lin a •hell wondefful) 1.49 competive because of the simple 93 82
N-York N-York 61 3
R,. Pi.!ltffl' ~ .600 5 115 609 
fudge Brownie .69 that is said 80 .516 Monlreel 74 16.5
fact Michelle hurt," Ballimore 75 18 81 .523
Me•lcln Sal1d 1.29 2.89 Paetry .69 
Detroll 75 18 81 .4n 
To1t1d1 Combo 1.59 2.09 Fudge Brownie Sundee 1.69 Gelfrnan. But Mary and Izzy made up 80 .516 ChiC8110 74 23.5 
Boaton 79 n .506 19.5 Philadelphia 71 83 .461 26
Chile Ole" .99 2.39 
for that problem and just went out Milwaukee 87 88 .432 31 Pinaburgh 53100 .3-46 43.5 
T1co Sandwich 1.49 2.59 
DRINK UPI ClevNn<l 57100 .383 42 Weet 
Chicken Sandwich 1.74 2.84 and did an excellent job as the Cold Bewra-U.Angelee 92 .5110
Weet 64 
Plaller Anortmml of uuc.s & skie orders second doubles team." Cltllfomia 87 69 .558 Clndnnati 86 69 .565 5.5 Want It a spacial way tusf Ofder Ill Pep•l. Dtet Pepsi, Root Beer, Mt. 0.W Panther summed up the weekend KarwuClty 87 69 .558 Sm1Diego 80 76 .513 12 Enc:hllado"• !Pianor of 2) Dr Popper. Welches. Sunklst. L.emon.de 
12 oz...64 20 oz...79 !2 oz...94 
ChiC8gO 81 75 .519 6 Houaton 78 78 .500 14
best as a learning experience that
Ice Tea. Milk. Orange Juice o.ldand 75 82 .478 12.5 Allanla 64 112 .410 28 Chkken 2.50 Hot Bever•se• · .47 will prove to be more valuable as the Minneaota 74 83 .471 13.5 s.n Frandaco 6096 .385 32 Seattle 7383 .468 14 DINNERS CoHee. Hot Chocoklte. HOI Tea 
Meat -lotza sauce & chftse 2.00 
season progresses. 
y........,..........

Texa11 6096 .385 27 
~t1 Enchllada • 1 chicken, 1 beef "We have been playing some of s.n Francoaco 4, Clndnnati 3 ~t2 Mecho Teco SIDE ORDERS Y.wday'a,._..lta Allanla 11. Houaton 3 (111nnga.)
the weaker teams and then we just 
~t3 Meet Burrito French Frlee .99 N-vork 5, Ballimore 4 s.n Diego 6, L.a. AngeiM 4 ~t4 Ctaee.. Burrito A Teco 
Refrled Beane .99 got thrown in among the top ranked Texa11 5, O.kland 3 with chill eauce .99 Ka.-City 3, Celllomia 1 
Compl.te with MloKk"an salad, retn.d beans, chill & teams," said the Irish captain. "It 
N.echo Chi~H~ .39 MinnMOta 7, ChiC8110 1
chftse. ~arnoie, sour cream & a plla of chips 
Guacamole Fresh. Fresh, Fresh .89 really shows who has the ex­Adin,.. With~ loh"""' fa tomono•l• LUNCH' Sour Creem .25 
perience. We have to get used to this 
4.79 .50 
high level of play if we want to im· 
Pfus lax on prices $5.00 mlnlmum order prove." 
~----------·clip and save·-----------­

-
The Observer Tuesday, October 1, 1985-page 10 

Sophomore split end 
Eason has stepped in to help Irish 
By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
With the loss of Joe Howard to graduation and Milt Jackson to ill­ness, and with the part-time play of Alvin Miller because of injuries, it seemed as ifthe Notre Dame football team might be lacking in depth in its receiving corps this season. A strong group of sophomores, however, has provided the Irish with the neces­sary depth at the split-end and flanker spots. 
At split end, Tony Eason is one of those sophomores who has stepped in to provide the Irishwith the talent to make this year's group of receivers into a threatening force. 
Eason, a 6-4, 194-pound Snohomish, Wash., native, came to the Irish after having been first at­traCted to Notre Dame by its basket­ball program. 
"I always liked Notre Dame," says Eason. "I used to watch their basket­ball and that was my first interest in this school. Basketball used to be my favorite sport, and I liked watching Notre Dame -Notre Dame was my team. 
"In high school, I set it (attending Notre Dame) as a goal because my dad wanted me to go to a Catholic school and Notre Dame is the best Catholic school in the nation." 
Originally, however, Eason's high school ambitions were in basketball and traCk until his junior year when his father first allowed him to play football. 
As a basketball player, he earned two letters and captained the squad during his senior year. In Notre Dame's Bookstore Basketball Tourn­ment, last year, he enjoyed success with "Mr. Coffey and the Non-Dairy Creamers," who made it to the Final 
Drahota, Szajko impress Laverie; Belles play well in SMC invitational 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's tennis team played host to seven NCAA Division schools this weekend in its annual invitational tournament at South Bend's Leeper Park. The scores of the individual flights were recorded but no team scores were compiled. 
Junior Kim Drahota and freshman Charlene Szajko were the bright spots for the Belles, placing third and fifth in their respective flights. 
"I was really happy with Drahota and Szajko's single& play this weekend," said Head Coach Debbie Laverie. "It (the tournament) did show that we nee~ improvement on our doubles though, since we didn't win a doubles match. 
"It was a great experience to play these NCAA division schools. This type of competition will help us later on." 
NCAA Division I schools present were Bowling Green, Toledo, Mar­quette, Ball State and Northern Il­linois. DePauw and Xavier are NCAA 
Purdue defeats St. Mary's in soccer 
By CHRIS FORTIN 
Sports Writer 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -The Saint Mary's varsity soccer team went on the road this weekend to battle Purdue, and the Belles returned home with a 4-1 loss. Their only goal was scored in the second halfby junior Gloria Eleuteri. 
"The score is not agood reflection of how we're competing with these teams," said Coach John Akers. "The team has a young but talented defense. Freshman Anne Pechous has a lot of potential as a defensive player." 
16 before losing to the eventual tournament champions. 
As a track star, he holds three records at his high school in the decathlon, high hurdles and triple jump. As a senior, he accumulated a decathlon best of 6,275 points, which ranks him at seventh on the all-time list in the state of Was­hington. 
"I had never planned to play foot­ball here because I didn't play football until my junior year in high school," explains Eason. "When my junior year came around, however, football seemed to be going pretty well for me and I just decided to put it all into that." 
Last year, Eason spent the season on the prep team for Notre Dame. While he did not run anypatternsfor the Irish during games last season, he feels that through the assistance of Irish offensive coordinator Mike Stock and the experience ofworking against the first-team Irish defensive unit, he has been able to develop his skills as a receiver. 
"When I came here, he (Stock) taught me all ofmy moves and there were a lot of things that I had to learn," recalls Eason. "He has brought me along and made me the receiver that I am. 
"Last year, I was on the prep team and that was really tough. I ran routes against the starting defense, and you cannot do anything but im­prove from that. I came into the spring, and I was really looking to prove myself. I had a good spring, and I talked to Coach Faust after the session. He told me that they travel six receivers and that I was among the top six." 
Eason's increased playing time this year has come as a result of his hard work and desire to play, ac-
Division III, while Saint Mary's was the lone NAIA school participating. 
Saint Mary's top six singles players and first three doubles teams each played in four matches over the weekend. 
Saint Mary's No. 1 singles player, Ann Dimberio, finished eighth for the day, losing in the finals of the consolation round to Bowling Green's Griffith, 6-3, 6-1. Seeded No. 2 for the Belles was freshman Shaun Boyd who also finished eighth, losing to Marquette's No. 2 singles player in her final match, 7-5, 6-3. 
Drahota, finished third in her flight while compiling an overall 3-1 weekend mark. She handily defeated Ball State's No. 3 singles player, Nickels, in the first set, 6-0, but needed a little· more time in the second, winning 7-5. 
Playing No. 4 singles for the Belles was Heather Temofeew, who placed fifth overall in her flight with a 2-2 weekend record. Northern Illinois' Ellis handed Temofeew a 6-0, 6-2 defeat in her final match. Sop­homore Sheila Campbell was win­less in four attempts, losing to 
The Boilers led 2-0 at halftime, before Eleuteri broke the seal for the Belles in the second half to make it 2-1. But with Saint Mary's pressing for the equalizer, Purdue responded with two goals to put the game on ice. 
According to Akers, the team is frustrated with its 0-6 record, but everyone has a good attitude and is working hard. 
"We're not a bad team even though we don't have a good record," said Akers. "No school has dominated us, and although we've been outscored, we have not been outclassed." 
cording to Irish offensive coor­dinator Mike Stock. 
"As a freshman coming in, he was far behind in terms of knowing the skills and fundamentals of the posi­tion," remembers Stock. "But through hard work and his own ability and tremendous effort, he has come into a very prominentposition of playing in this particular season and has given us a big boost at the wide-out position." 
Against Michigan State this year, • the sophomore caught a first q~arter 17-yard touchdown pass for the first Irish touchdown tally of the young campaign. Last week against Purdue, he grabbed two balls for 50 yards, including one reception which netted 33 yards and set up an Irish score. 
As a receiver, Eason idolizes Seattle's Steve Largent in his ability to set up the defenses and in his patience. He believes that his own strengths lie in his ability as a receiver overall. 
"My strong points are in working on executing good fakes, and I also consider myself to have good hands," says Eason. "I think that I can go up for a ball in a crowd pretty well. Overall, I hope to contribute in any way that I can to help the team 
win." 
For the Irish in 1985, Eason is looking forward to a strong team ef­fort and great dedication. Despite two early losses, the sophomore feels that the Irish will reunite and look towards a successful stretch drive. 
"The goal of the game is to win and be successful," comments Eason. "All of our guys have worked hard, and if we come together as a team, things will come out right and we should win." 
Bowling Green' fifth-seeded player 
in her final match. 
Szajko finished fifth in her flight 

winning three of her four matches. 
She defeated Jay of DePauw 6-2, 6-4 
in her final match. 
The Belles No. 1 doubles team of Dimberio and Bridget Heraty lost to Northern Illinois' first seeded players, 6-2, 6-2, while Xavier's No.2 combination of Kappes and Smith downed the Belles team of Szajko and Boyd in three sets, 6-3, 4-6 and 6-2. The Saint Mary's No. 3 doubles pair of Campbell and Drahota were defeated by DePauw's Greer and Hays, 6-3,6-1. 
The Belles, who own a 2-5 record, will have all week to prepare for this weekend's Irish Invitational. Saint Mary's is scheduled to play Louis­ville and Marquette and Laverie is looking forward to the weekend matches. 
"We lost to Marquette earlier in the season," said the first-year coach. "But we have improved since then and that match will be a good gauge to determine how much we have im­proved." 
The offense has been scoring, but the Belles have yet to make the first goal in a game and that has been a significant disadvantage. 
Akers has seen improvements in the team's performance and expects things to change. The Belles will face Notre Dame this afternoon for the second time this season with a fresh attitude which Akers described as "starting over." 
"Ifwe can solve our defensive er­rors, I'm convinced we'll win some games," commented Akers. 
This afternoon's game between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame is slated for 4:30 on Stepan Field at Notre Dame. 

The Oblcrver/Hanna Hackn 

Sophomore wtdeout Tony Eason bas come on strong to earn con­siderable playing ttme for the Irish this season, and bts contribu­tions will be even more important wttb teammate Ttm Brown sidelined. M tke Chmiel bas a feature on Eason atleft, and details of Brown's injury are on page 12. 
Plaza Stvli 

4331 W. Western Ave. -Phoenix 
HAIR 
STYLING 

for Penns with MEN& lh~ 
Latest

WOMEN Techniqu~ 
OI'IN MON.&\T.,--!YENINGS IY APPOINtMENT
@REDKEN--23_3-4_a4_a 
IJ!p,40Sale 
All the top 40 on sale starting at just $5.99 indudes: Dire Straits, Sting Billy Joel 

CLASSICAL TAPES 
3/$1 ooo 
LONDON•DG• PHILLIPS • 

COLUMBIA • ANGEL • RCA .. 1OOs at 39!! 
YOU CAN WALKTO TRACKS 
At the corner of Edison Rd & St. Rd. 23 Just across from the King's Cellar 
10to9dally 1631 E. Edison noon to 6 Sunday South Bend 

INDIANA'S FINEST DISCOUNT RECORD STORE 
CASH PAID FOR LP's•TAPES.CD's 

BUY•SELL·TRADE 
GUITAR STRINGS C>NLY
f;4arquis 
Martin 
$4.99
Guild D'Addario Dean Marldey 


T0 day_______________________
r_u_e_sd_a_y_,_o_c_t_o_b_er-1,_1_9_8_s__P_ag_e_l_l 
Bloom County 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Kevin Walsh 
The ghost of Baron Rudolph von Guggenheim, 16th-century nobleman murdered by the Countess Rowena DuBois and her lover (believed to be the Duke of Norwood), falls Into Edna's bean dip. 


©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 10/1/85All Rights Reserved 
Monday's Solution 
7 Bonneville  
state  
8-bene  
9 Church part  
10 Safari member  
11 Thespian  
12 Picked  
13 -lnon  
(targeted)  
21 Billfold Item  
22 Abeliever  
25 Renown  
26 Chemical group  
27 Badminton  
items  
28 Gaits  
29 An Andersen  
31 Shoe Insert 32 Swarm  10/1/85  
33 Raison d'­ 43 "A-and a  48 Hall-of-Farner  
34 Single-name actress  wiser man" 44-wink  Hoyt 50 Anatomical  
36 Express Ideas 37 Instigated  (quickly) 45 Community  membrane 51 Gaiter  
38 Swiss cheese:  character  52 Bistro  
var.  46 Permission  53 Notable times  
42 Amuse  47 Vietnam region  57 Food scrap  

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 God of war 5 Lean 
10 Classical 
organist 14 Indian peasant 15 Noted fur 
merchant 16 She loved Narcissus 17 Trucker's 
vehicle 18 Lariat 19 Particle 20 Used flower? 23 Word with deep 
or high 24 Become irate 25 Airplane type 28 Pronoun 30 Tract 31 Percussion 
Instruments 32 Hawkshaw 35 Musical 
Christmas request? 39 They loop 
"The Loop" 40 Versifiers 41 Only 42 Multiplying 
word 43 Stew 45 May or Strltch 48 Decline 49 Inexpensive 
fox trot? 54 Skein 55 Lukewarm 56 Starch source 58 Elliptical 59 Make jubilant 60 At a distance 61 Bespangled 
In heraldry 62 Library stamp 63 "-we forget" 
DOWN 1 Feminine title 2 Voice votes 3 Tlbercity 4 Chewy candy 
in Eng. 5 Redgem 6 Digression 
Campus 

•12:00 
P.M. · Brief SemJnar, "South Africa: The Current Crisis", Peter Walshe; University of Notre Dame, 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies 

•4:00 
P.M.-Forum, Cardinal Bernardin and John Cardinal O'Connor, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Thomas). White Center 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Lemon and Herb Pork Loin Beef Stroganoff over Noodles Garden Vegetable Quiche Chinese Hero 
TV Tonight 
•7:00 
P.M.. Presencadon/ Recepdon, Leo Burnett Company, Upper Lounge, University Club, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Open to Liberal Arts, BBA's and 2nd Year MBA's 

•8:00 
P.M.-Meedng, RASTA, Center for So­cial Concerns, Sponsored by RASTA 


Saint Mary's Grilled Cheese Beef Ravioli Mushroom and Spinach Crepes 
-
l 
I 
~ 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 
7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 

16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 16 MASH 22 Three's Company 16 TheA-Team 22 Hometown 28 Who's The Boss? 
28  Growing Pains  
16  Riptide  
22  CBS  Tuesday  Night  Movie:  
"Murder: By Reason oflnsanity"  
28  Moonlighting  
34  NOVA: "Farmers ofthe Sea"  
46  Blackwood Brothers  
16  Remington Steele  
28  Our Family Honor  
34  FRONT  
46  Lesea Alive  

10:00 P.M. 
10:30 P.M. 
ll:OOP.M. 
l1:30P.M. !2:30A.M. 1:00A.M. 2:00A.M. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 WAR: "The Road to Total War" 46 Dwight Thompson 
16 Tonight Show 22 Simon&: Simon/CBS Late Movie 28 ABC News Nightline 28 Eye On Hollywood 34 Film Du Jour: "Private Ufe of 
Henry VIII" 
46 Pralae the Lord 16 David Letterman Show 16 Allin the Family 22 Nightwatch 46 Independent Network News 



Tuesday, October 1, 1985-page 12
SRorts 
-
Intensity level increases in Interhall as teams finish 2nd week of games 
By FRANK HUEMMER 
Sports Writer 
The intensity level of interhall football increased as the second week of competition concluded. Many ofthe opening day jitters were worked out as teams displayed great improvement in their style of play, but overall the tough defensive play prevailed. 
Both upset winners from last week, Keenan and Holy Cross, were defeated, as Morrissey and Alumni showed that they are teams to be reckoned with. Also, Grace and Sorin continued to impress with their play, while Zahm opened up its season on a winning note. Heading into the third week of action, there are already many important games as teams begin to aim for playoff spots. 
Some big games took place over 
the weekend. In the Parseghian Divi-scamper by Tim Arnold while Dillon 
Irish lose Tim Brown 
Spedal to The Observer 
The Notre Dame football team will be without the services of flanker Tim Brown for this Saturday's game at Air Force, team physicians announced yesterday. 
Brown. who suffered a severely sprained ankle against Purdue last Saturday, may be lost to the Irish for as long as three weeks, accord­ing to team doctors. 
The sophomore wide receiver injured his ankle late in the third quarter in last Saturday's game in West Lafayette, Ind., and left the field on crutches. He finished the day with three receptions for 30 yards. 
A native of Dallas, Texas, Brown ranks as Notre Dame's leading receiver this season with nine catches for 1 50 yards and one touch­down. 
The Irish will be counting on junior Alvin Miller, along with sop­homores Reggie Ward and Tony Eason and senior Pat Cusack, to pick up the slack in Brown's absence. 
Miller has been troubled by injuries through the early part ofthe season and did not catch his first pass until last week, while Ward is the team's Second-leading receiver with seven catches for 1 0 1 yards this season. 
~~ 
~ Obocrvcr/Chaltanya Panehal 

Sophomore Benet Deberry and the rest of the Notre Dame field bockey team bad a tough weekend, dropping two bard-fought games to Ohio State and Purdue. Kent Feldon bad details at right. 
sion, Morrissey ( 2-0) showed they are for real with a hard fought 6-0 victory over Keenan ( 1-1 ). John Mundo threw a pass to Dave Lamen­dola for the game's only score as both defenses played inspired foot­ball. 
Also, Grace remained in the un­beaten ranks with a 7-0 win over Off-Campus (0-2). The game's only touchdqwn came as John Mihalovich connected on a 70-yard pass play to team captain Ed Bor· nemann, on Grace's first possession. 
"We improved a lot and were able to move the ball up and down the field well," said Bornemann. "Hopefully, we'll have it ready again for next week." 
Meanwhile, Flanner and Dillon played to a 6-6 stand-off as both teams slipped to ( 0-1-1 ). Flanner scored its touchdown on a 1 0-yard tallied on a pass from Pat Marget to Paul Drey. 

"I think our offense will have to get it together this week," said Dil­lon captain Paul Kolano. "Our backs will really be against the wall." 
In the Leahy Division, parity seems to be the word to describe Alumni (2-0), Zahm (1-0), Holy Cross ( 1-1), Stanford ( 0-1 ). and Cavanaugh ( 0-2 ) as all will be bat­tling it out to the very end. 
"There seems to be a good deal of parity within our division," said Zahm captain Mike Chmiel. "On any given day any team in the division can be beaten. I'm looking for a close division race which will go down to the wire." 
In probably the biggest game of the season to date, Alumni squeaked past Holy Cross, 9-7. Holy Cross jumped to an early 7·0 lead as Bren­dan Donahue scored a touchdown on a pass play. However, a determined Alumni team was not to be denied. Before the half, Alumni scored on a quarterback keeper to knot the score at 7-7. Then, in the second half, Alumni would get the only points it needed on a safety by Tom Meagher. 
"We didn't play poorly," said a dejected Holy Cross captain Chris Ryan. "Mentally we just weren't sharp. We didn't react fast enough Th~ Obecrvcr/Hannn Hacka and just weren't able to do the little 
SeniorIzzy O'Brien, shown here in earlier season action,formed 
things to win." 
an impressive doubles tandem with Mary Colligan this weekendas Notre Dame fared well in the Midwest Intercollegiate Champion·
see INTERHALL, page 8 

sbips.]obn Coyle bad details below. 
Gelfman pleased with team's play in Division I weekend tournament 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
It was a learning experience for the Notre Dame women's tennis team this weekend as the Irish par­ticipated in one of the most chal­lenging tournaments on their fall schedule. Notre Dame was certainly not in over its head, however, as proven by its top-eight finish in singles and its top-four position in doubles. 
With many ofthe top teams on the Division I level such as Northwes­tern, Kentucky, and Vanderbilt at the Midwest Intercollegiate Cham­pionships, Irish head coach Michelle Gelfrnan and her players knew that victories would not come easily. The Irish were out to prove that they 
Field hockey team loses two games by narrow margins; record now 4-4 
By KENT WELDON 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame field hockey team played two tough games and dropped both of them this past weekend in West Lafayette, Ind. The Irish were pitted against two BigTen rivals in Ohio State and Purdue, losing 2-0 to the Buckeyes and 1-0 to the Boilers. 
Irish head coach Jill Lindenfeld knew right from the start that the Irish were facing two strong teams. This was evident as they watched Ohio State hold Purdue, r~ed 16th in the nation, to a 0-0 tie. 
Because of this close match, Lin­denfeld was not disappointed with her team's two losses which bring Notre Dame to an even 4-4 mark. But the Irish coach still ack­nowledged her team's need for im­provement. 
could play on such a high level of competition and Gelfrnan was happy with the end results. 
"I was really pleased with the girls," said Gelfrnan. "We were not outclassed by any means. We were right in there on every point and played extremely well. It is a very respectable showing considering that we are in the process of making the transition to Division 1." 
Susie Panther helped show that the Irish do indeed belong on the Division I level by advancing to the quarterfinals of the main draw singles bracket. In the first round, Panther defeated Robin Gerstein of Iowa, 6-2, 6-2. The senior captain then disposed ofMary Wood ofKen­tucky, 6-3, 6-1, and followed that by topping Kathryn Bumstead of Van­derbilt in a close match, 7-5, 7-5, to 
"We need a lot of work defensively," said Lindenfeld. ''And offensively we need to work on con­trolling the ball more." 
In Notre Dame's first game, against Ohio State, Lindefeld felt that senior Mary Rose Rodgers had a solid outing for the Irish. 
"Ohio State was a quick and physi­
cal team," Lindenfeld said. "They 
just outplayed us." 

The following day the Irish played Purdue and once again wound up on the losing end. One accomplish­ment that pleased Lindenfeld is that the Irish held such a highly-skilled team with excellent ball control to a close 1-0 score. 
"(Irish goalie) Patti Gallagher turned in a spectacular game against Purdue," said Lindenfeld. 
In the two weekend games Gallag­her piled up an impressive 23 saves against two offensively strong teams, make it to the quarterfinals. Pan­ther's drive to the finals was thwarted the quarters however, where she lost to Kerstein Laux of Northwestern 6-2,6-1. 
Tammy Schmidt also played well for the Irish. After losing in her first match, Schmidt, in the consolation bracket, defeated Pat Leary of Iowa 6-4, 6-1. She then topped Janelle Bolen of Kentucky, 6-3, 6-4 before finally losing 7-5, 6-3 to Chris Nagel. ofTennessee. 
Gelfrnan did not expect to do that well in doubles play because Mic­helle Dasso of the first doubles pair is out ~ith an injury. Mary Colligan and Izzy O'Brien, however, provided a pleasant surprise for the 
see TENNIS, page 9 

and added these outings to an al­ready long list of consistently bril­liant performances. 
Lindenfeld said that her team was 
not down after the two losses, par­
ticularly with the knowledge that 
Purdue is a nationally-ranked team. 
'In fact, the coach felt that the squad 
should be encouraged that they 
played the Boilermakers to such a 
close match. 

Once again, the Irish will be on the road for another tough game against Michigan State today. It is another Big Ten school that offers scholarships and the fact that the Irish are playing on the Spartan's home field is another disadvantage. 
"We have talent enough to win, says Lindenfeld. "And the game could go either way." 
The Irish will be attempting to avenge a loss to Michigan State early last season. 




