
Autochromes -page 6 

VOL XIX, NO. 102 the imkpcmknt ~tudcnt ncw~papcr ~erving notre Jamc and saint mary's TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1985 

Sophomore Literary Festival brings English poet to ND 
ByMARYCAROLCREAOON Silkin's first publication in 1954, the rapid British speech.''The poetic SeniorStaffReporter "The Peaceable Kingdom," has been line he used had three fundamental described by critics as "the finest pulses in it. 
British poet Jon Silkin shared first volume of poetry written by a Many of his poems reflect certain some ofhis poems which reflect his living English poet." Silkin said ofthe episodes in British history that espe· wide-ranging life experiences at last volume, "Ideology is something I cially influenced him. "The Cold· night's Sophomore literary Festival. have always been involved with" ness" relates the 1190 massacre of 
Silkin, one of England's most dis­and these poems deal with "the Jews in York, "when 800 Jews took tinguished living poets, according to gradual erosion of the aspirations of each other's lives to escape Chris­the Sophomore Literary Festival pro­the peaceable kingdom." tian death by Christian lives." gram, was born in London in 1930. He also writes about "what it feels Another poem, entitled He is presently living in Newcastle like to live in England today," and "Defense," is a sarcastic commen­and he described himself as part of said, so many ofhis poems are politi· tary on a pamphlet which instructed the "urban bourgeoisie." cally founded in the conflicts be· women on how to defend them­
His poetry is as vastly diverse as tween the British and the Irish. In selves in the event ofa nuclear bom­the periods in his life. He worked as a one poem, he attacked, "the English bing. journalist, a soldier, a manual men and women who have killed the In his poems "Carved" and "A laborer, a teacher at the University Irish and sleep easily on it." Death to Us," he reveals his fascina­of Leeds, and is currently editor and Silkin talked about his poetry in a tion with death. In both poems, the publisher of the poetry quarterly, technical sense, which he said few death of one organism becomes an Stand. The subject matter of his poets will do publicly. While teach­intrusion on the actions ofthe living. poetry ranges from politics, history, ing at Leeds, he established a rhyme Silkin read an emotionally power-and religion to nature, love, life, and for his poems that "was flexible and, 
see SILKIN, page 3death. at the same time, got very close to 

Saint Mary's loft policy completed 
By KIMBERLY TRENNER were concerned with their expense. what makes my job exciting. I really StaffReporter Freshman Kathleen Sinnott said, "I enjoy working with the students.'' would buy one if they are not too The Loft Policy Committee was 
Plans have been finalized for expensive.'' established through the efforts of raising the level of sleep for some The new policy offers the stu­Saint Mary's student government. Saint Mary's women. dents a company built kit or a The chairwoman of the committee 
The loft policy, announced in No· blueprint guide for student built was Anne McCarthy. Other mem­vember, will be in effect fall semes­lofts. American Wood Products, the bers included Patricia Rissmeyer, ter 1985. Patricia Rissmeyer, company chosen to supply the lofts, Jason Lindower, Saint Mary's con­director of residence life and will construct them during the sum· troller and business manager, five housing, said, "I think it will provide mer and will install them in the fall if residence hall representatives, four the students with the opportunity to the students would like them to be resident assistants, and three Saint personalize their rooms a bit more assembled. Mary's student government officers. than they are able to now." The prices range from $I 25 to The committee conducted a sur­
r 
Most students are optimistic Sl83 depending on the type of loft vey last semester to determine stu­about the new loft policy. Liz Mur­and the quantity ordered. Saint dent opinion on the loft issue. It was ray, a freshman residing in Regina, Mary's will not be making a profit on discovered that a majority of stu· said, "I like it. I think it's a great idea. the lofts. dents showed an interest in having a I don't know if I would buy the Rissmeyer, who has held her pres­loft. Of the 439 students who 
whole kit, I think I would. just use the ent position since 1983, did not feel responded, 81 percent agreed the blueprints. I would plan on getting that the enactment ofthe loft policy lofts would make the dorm rooms one though, especially since the is a personal success. She said, "I give more livable, and 75 percent said rooms arc so small." credit to the students." Regarding they definitely wanted lofts. 
Another freshman at Regina, Lisa school policy changes, she said, "I Each loft will be checked by a Col­Nakfoor, said, "I think it's great. It welcome the opportunity for stu· lege inspection team for compliance will give the rooms a much more ap­d~nts to propose new and especially with the new loft policy. Lofts found pealing look." Other students felt creative changes. Any community in violation of the policy will either that the lofts were a good idea but has a changing environment. That is have to be altered or dismantled. 
The Observer/O!ailanya Panchal 
British Poet jon Silkin read some ofhis poetry and explained its origins in his talk last night in the Library Auditorium. He was speaking as a featured writer in this year's Sophomore Literary Festival which continues tonight with Michael Anania. 


Flood waters inundating record books in Hoosier state 
Associated Press riverbank along endangered neigh· neighborhoods. The Red Cross pro­
borhoods. vided emergency shelter to 14 
INDIANAPOLIS · Hundreds of "We're hanging in there and hold­people Sunday night. Fort Wayne school students volun­ing our own," said Angela Boerger, a The St. Joseph River at South Bend teered yesterday to fill sandbags as spokeswoman for Fort Wayne was predicted to crest today nearly the city and other northern Indiana Mayor Winfield Moses Jr. 6 feet above flood stage, just above communities kept a wary eye on the record level set in 1982.
High water on some streets, plus
swollen rivers. "There are a half-dozen homes
the need for volunteers, prompted 
with water almost up to the door,
Approximately 1, I00 people the closingofcity schools yesterday. 
but they were sandbagged," county
were forced from their homes in Rivers were expected to crest ap· 
police officer Lester Myers said. "I
scattered areas across northern proximately 1 0 feet above flood 
don't see any immediate danger to
Indiana as some rivers approached stage last night, the National Wea­
life within our area." A 20 percent
record levels, state Civil Defense Of· ther Service said. 
ficial Phil Roberts said. 
chance of rain was predicted for 
City officials said no evacuations today. 
In Fort Wayne, the rising waters of had been ordered and they could State police reported Interstate the St. Joseph, Maumee and St. not estimate the number of people highways and main roads remained Mary's rivers may provide the first who left their homes voluntarily. Ap· open in northern Indiana. Many sec· test of nearly S3 million in flood­proximately 30 people sought shel­ondary roads in lowlying areas were control improvements made after ter with the Red Cross, city flooded. destructive flooding three years ago. spokeswoman Amy Ahlersmeyer In western Indiana, a flood warn­
said. ing remained in effect as the Wabash 
In a manner recalling the commu­"We're doing real good here," said River in some areas reach~d its high· nity volunteer spirit that saved Fort Carl O'Neal, city director of trans­est levels in 26 years. The weather Wayne from even greater destruc· portation and engineering. service predicted extensive flood· tion during the 1982 floods, approx­In Elkhart, high waters of the St. ing between Covington in Fountain imately 1,000 students volunteered Joseph River forced the evacuation County and Terre Haute !n Vigo to fill sandbags and shore up the of some homes in southeast side County through Friday. 

--~-­

The Observer Tuesday, February 26, 1985 -page 2 


In Brief 
The University of Notre Dame Press' 
new administrative director is John Ehmann, Press Director James Langford announced. Ehmann, who holds a master's degree in phi­losophy from Fordham University, has worked at the University Press for 20 years as editor, editorial-sales coordinator, assistant director and associate director. Before coming to Notre Dame, he taught philosophy at Rutgers University and worked as an editor at 
D. Van Nostrand Company in Princeton, N.J. The University ofNotre Dame Press is the scholarly book publishing department of the Uni­versity. The largest Catholic university press in the world, it publishes between 3'5 and 40 titles a year in a wide variety ofdisci­plines. · The Obseroer 
Certificates ofappreciationfrom the st. Joseph County Chapter of the Red Cross have been given to three Notre Dame students and two campus organizations for their work in raising money for African famine relief. Honored were Glenn Stan­dish and Steve Liese, coordinators ofthe campus branch ofthe local Red Cross chapter, and Julie Schuessler, head of the Air Force ROTC'c Arnold Air Society. The two organizations also received awards. The students organized a one-day fund-raising effort Jan. 22 that raised S3, I00 toward the international Red Cross reliefeffort in 27 African countries undergoing an unprecedented drought. The money was added to an additional S12,200 raised by the St. Joseph chapter in a direct mail campaign in the community. Some 185 mil­lion persons are affected by the famine, and the monthly death toll is estimated at 40,000 men, women and children. -The Obseroer 
ProfessorAnthonyMichel,chairman ofthe de­partment ofelectrical engineering at Notre Dame, has received the Engineering Distinguished Professional Achievement Award from Marquette University. Michel received his bachelor degree, master's degree and doctorate degree from Marquette. Aspecialist in systems engineering, particularly in the stability oflarge interconnected sys­tems, he taught at Iowa State University for 16 years before he joined the Notre Dame faculty last August. The Marquette award recognizes individuals whose accomplishments reflect the Mil­waukee university's ideals and can serve as models for its engineer­ing students. · The Obseroer 


Of Interest 
The Club ofLife is sponsoring a lecture byJerry Pech­nok, of the International Caucus of Labor Committees, tonight at 
7:30 in the LaFortune Little Theater. The topic will be "The World Economy and Foreign Relations."-The Obseroer 

Potential May 1985 graduatesshould come to the Registrar's Office before March 8 to proofread their name and home-town as they will appear on the commencement program and on their diploma. After March 8, a S10 charge will be assessed for changes made to the name on the diploma. Each potential graduate will receive, in the mail, a Commencement Ticket Request form. This form should be returned to the Registrar's Office before March 
8. Each potential graduate will receive four guest tickets. Ticket re­quests received March 11 and thereafter will be accomodated on a first come/first served basis. Potential candidates also can pick up l 0 Commencement Announcements in the Registrar's Office. The of­fice is open Monday to Friday from 8:30a.m. to 4 p.m.· The Obseroer 
A Senior class Mass wm be celebrated at s:1s this evening in the Sacred Heart Church. Father Francis Cafarelli, assis­tant vice president for student services, will be the celebrant. Seniors are requested to sit in the left-front section of the church.. 
The Obsen'er 

Weather 
Raindrops keep falling on South Bend. A 20 percent chance of light rain today with highs near 4'5 in the morning, but dropping to the 30 by afternoon. A chance of flurries tonight with lows near 25. Mostly cloudy and cold tomorrow with highs near 30. · 

AP 
The Observer 

The 0'-:rver (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through friday and on hom<: football Saturdays, <:xcept during <:xam and vacation periods. The 0'-:rver is published by the studentsor th<: Unlv.:nity of Notre Dam<: and Saint Mary's C.olleg<:. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per y<:ar ( S20 per se· m.:st<:r) by writing The Ol!Krver, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dam<:, Indiana 465~6. 

The Obtlerver is a m<:mber or Th.: AMoclated Pre!M, All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor.............................. Paul Bruce Design Asststant........)ane Anne Reidford l.ayout Staff. Becky Gunderman, Melissa 
Warnke 
Typesetters ...................Tracy Bringardner, Mary Ellen Harrington 
News Editor............................)ohn MenneII Copy Editor.................................. Frank Upo Sports Copy Editor .................. Mary Sieger Viewpoint Copy Edilor..........)oc Murphy Vtewpointl.ayout ..................... Paul Bruce Features Copy Editor............Teresa Keefe Features Layout .............Catherine Coffee ND Day Editor........................ Aimee Storin SMC Day Editor...............Toni Rutherford AdDesign .................Anne Marie furleigh, 
Usa Dickinson Typist ................................... Gina Farabaugh fbotograpber ...............Chaitanya Panchal 



Seat belt laws should become more common to save lives 
Recently New York state passed a law making it ille­gal for a person to ride in a moving automobile without having their seat belt fastened. Other states are moving in that direction. 
Although the government, especially the federal gov­ernment, should regulate people's lives as little as possi· ble, this is an area in which the federal government should not hesitate to step in. If all 50 states do not enact mandatory seat belt laws within the next few years the federal government should pass such a law. 

There is little doubt as to the fact that seat belts can save lives in the event ofa serious accident. The fact has been proven many times over. The reason is just simple physics. Modern cars have been designed to "crumple" upon impact to take'some of the force of the blow and prevent it from reaching the passenger compartment. However, this design feature does little good if the oc­cupants of the car do not remain in the car, or are violently thrown around the interior ofthe car. 
When a person wearing a 


Mark PoHer 
Assistant News Editor 
dent. Thus, the less intelligent members of the species are killed off and the species' gene pool as a whole is improved. 
However the key issue in this debate is still individual rights. A person's right to not wear their seat belt ends just as soon as it infringes upon another individual's rights. The right to not wear a seat belt does not include the right to drive up another person's insurance costs. This can happen when a person not wearing a seat belt is injured in an accident, and the insurance company 
' has to pay for their subse­
seat belt is in a car that quent hospital stay. The in­makes a sudden stop, such as surance company has to 
would occur when a car hits recover the money they another car, that person paid out for that person's stops as the car does be· 
hospital stay, so they raise cause the seat belt makes the everyone's rates. person basically a part ofthe The right to not wear a passenger compartment. 
seat belt does not supersede The car crumples, which other's rights to quickly and takes a small but very impor­safely get from one point to tant amount of time. The 
another on this nation's 

amount of force a body is roads and highways. A per­subjected to as it son who is injured in a crash decelerates is directly causes the roads to be 
related to the amount of blocked by the paramedics, time it takes the body to fire trucks and ambulances come to rest. 
that will be sent to the scene However, a person who is of the accident. No one has the right to block the
not wearing a seat belt decelerates much more sud­denly, usually it happens almost instantaneously as their head hits the windshield or their chest is impaled upon the steering wheel. The amount of force the unbelted person is subjected to is much greater and is often upon a portion of the body that can be easily injured, such as 
the forehead or the chest. 
One argument against a mandatory seat belt law is that it infringes upon a person's rights to mandate wearing a seat belt while riding in their private car. Al­though this is a consideration, the key issue is whether one person's right to drive or ride in a car without a seat belt supersedes other people's rights. 
In fact, Charles Darwin would not agree with a man­datory seat belt law. The fact that some people choose not to wear seat belts validates his Theory ofEvolution. Those who are not intelligent enough to wear seat belts are often killed in the event of a serious automobile accident, while those who choose to wear seat belts have a much better chance of surviving a serious acci· up 

roads that are used by every· one merely because they wish to exercise their right to not wear their seat belt. 
Nor does anyone have any right to endanger the lives of others becawse they feel that it is infringing upon their individual rights to require them to wear a seat belt. Aperson who is thrown about the interior oftheir car and can't stay behind the wheel because they arc not wearing a seat belt cannot maintain control oftheir car and may end up hitting another car. By endangering someone's life that person is infringing upon another's rights. Anyone's right to not wear a seat belt is forfeited as soon as they inconvenience or endanger anyone else by their action. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
............................. 
t TONIGHT!! : • Sophomore Literary :• t Festival1985 : : presents: : 



i ICHAEL i i ANANIA 

8:00pm : 
in the + Library Auditorium : 

............................. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 26, 1985 -page 3 
Scholastic Magazine is now accepting applicationsfor thefollowing positions: 
• 
News Editor • Fiction Editor 

• 
Sports Editor • Advertising Editor 

• 
Features Editor • Distribution Manager 


Applications due Friday, March 1 and are available at the Scholastic Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune 
,. 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
News Editor Features Editor Saint Mary's Executive Photo Editor 
Editor Controller Sports Editor Advertising Manager Viewpoint Editor Production Manager 
Copy Chief 
Questions about these positions should be directed to Sarah Hamilton at The Observer. Personal statements and resumes are due Wednesday, Feb. 27 atSp.m. 
The Observer 
3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

~ 


ra(j 
0~ ~0~ $199 

r'V(j 
Sign up at the Record Store (in LaFortune) 
Senate condemns budget cuts 
ByMIKE Mll.LEN ni¢1t. Mike Quinn. executive coord­SeniorStaffReporter inator, said ''it seems like we do this year after year. It's beating a dead 
The Student Senate last night horse." unanimously approved a statement Some senate members were in fa­condemning the Reagan administra­vor of extending only the Sunday tion for its proposed budget cuts in hours. Lyons Hall President Joanie student financial aid. Cahill agreed, saying "I think the 1 
According to Student Govern­a.m. Sunday proposal would be a ment Lobby Commissioners Ed much better idea." Senator Dan Augustine and Karen McCloskey, McNamara also thought the Sunday the new budget provides for a 25 proposal to be more realistic. percent cut in aid. Their resolution The senate unanimously passed a "finds President Reagan's Budget resolution confirming the n 00 do­Recommendations short sighted nation to the Ethiopian Charity Ball and ill-advised." They plan to send and urging the Student Activities the petition to Congress and will Board to donate S100 to another or­make form letters available to con­ganization with a similar cause. cerned students. Kevin McGovern, student activities 
Student Senator Pat Browne pre­board manager, said he would honor sented a proposal to lengthen the resolution. parietals by one hour on Sunday and Kevin Howard, Keenan Hall presi­two hours on Friday and Saturday dent, announced the current status of the Hall President's Council peti­tion asking for an explanation ofthe senate'saction in the Browne/Cahill election controversy. He asked the matter to be dropped and apologized for having to mention the issue. Due to an error in proce­dure, Howard was denied time to speak. Later in the meeting he was given an opportunity to make his statement. 
Quinn, chairman of the Commit­tee for Restructuring Student Gov­ernment, said his cominittee had established the areas which their report will concern. He noted the final report as being a "long-range solution," adding he thought it best if the current administration issue the report rather than the incoming one. "I really believe that we know the situation better than the people who are coming in," he said. 

Parietals extension passes first test 
ByANNE GALlAGHER 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The extension ofparietal hours at Saint Mary's "met with very little op­position" in the StudentAffairs Com­mittee, according to Julie Strazzabosco, vice-president for aca­demic affairs. 
Discussing the proceedings with the Board of Governance last night, Strazzabosco indicated that the prospective parietal changes passed the first of three tests successfully. "It's now on to the Student Affairs Council and then to Dr. Duggan for the final decision," she said. 
A student government survey conducted last semester indicated that students overwhelmingly favored an extension of the existing weekday visitation hours. If this 
ITS NOT TOO LATE!!! The Student Activities Board 
THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT 
is your answer to Spring Break 
RELAX ••• we've done this before: 
• 
Free refreshments on bus 

• 
Free Parties 

• 
St. Patrick's Celebration 

• 
White Sox Baseball 

• 
Afternoon Boat Excursion 

• 
DePaui-Northwestern Parties 

• 
At the Sheraton Yankee Trader 

• 
Free Refreshments on Bus 

• 
St. Patrick's Day Celebration 

• 
Optional trips to Walt Disney World Epcot Center 

• 
Sun and Fun 

• 
Free Parties 

• 
At the Plaza Hotel 


BALANCE DUE!! 
~==~==~~~~--~--~~~ 
measure is passed, parietals will be extended from 4 p.m. -12 a.m. on weekdays. They will also btgin ear­lier, 10 a.m., on football weekends. 
Strazzabosco pointed out that there was some opposition to the early locking ofresidence hall doors following the implementation of such hours. The early hours pose an exiting problem to administration and faculty located in LeMans. 
Anne Marie Kollman, vice­president for student affairs, indi­cated that any opposition will not be overlooked. "We have to take into consideration how many people parietals effect positively and negatively; then we have to weigh the odds," said Kollman. 
"I feel positive about it, and I am sure the members ofthe council will 
have questions," said Strazzabosco, 
"but I feel sure we will have the 
answers." 
The board also discussed the pos­siblility of a "Meet the Commis­sioners" night so that interested candidates would be able to meet and speak with the present commis­sioners about their position. Anne Marie Kollman suggested a half hour, voluntary informational meeting that could be held in the residence halls. 
The meeting was closed with a reminder that applications for Board of Governance commissioners will be available beginning Thursday, Feb. 28. Senior Board application~ are available until March 1. Both can be picked up at the front desk ofthe Haggar College Center. 
Some of Silkin's less somber poems include ones about nature. In 




Silkin 
"The Violet," he placed one eye firmiy on the object and with the continuedfrom page 1 other, tried to imagine an analogous 
human situation. In the poem, he ful poem, "Adam," which recounted ·compares the flower's courage in the death ofhis first child in a mental not making its two petals the same hospital. The baby is compared to a size to human obstinance. house, "but this house was made up of neither bricks nor stone," rather, While some ofSilkin's poems con­it was a "house of flesh and blood." nect two seemingly unrelated sub­Then Adam turned over and out of jects, his poem,"Untitled," his eyes, "two great tears rolled like highlights the contrasting natures of stones and he died." poverty and love. 
ECONOMICS MAJORS DEMAND A SUPPLY OF DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
277-2151 
Get two free Cokes® with
Two Free 
any·pizza. 
One coupon per pizza.


Cokes® 
Fast, Free DeliveryTM Plaza 23 Center 
. . ~~?;!@.;;~:::. 
• • JTC NA 124'2650 ;,..:==::::::;::;::::;::====::;::;:;:;:::::::;..,\ .c 1984 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
"' 


The Observer Tuesday, February 26, 1985-page 4 


FAF deadline is approaching 
By KEVIN YOUNG 
News Staff 
Ifyou are one ofmore than halfof the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's stu· dents receiving financial aid, March 1 is an important day to remember. It is the day when both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's financial aid offices will begin to examine Financial Aid Forms and distribute financial aid. 
With 66 percent ofthe students at Notre Dame and 50 percent of the Saint Mary's students receiving fin· ancial aid, filing a FAF is important business. Since aid is distributed on a first come/first served basis, those who meet the March 1 deadline will better their chancesofobtainingaid. 
Project shows advantages of area 

"Alive with Pride, South Bend/Mishawaka!" is the name given by a group of local residents, not all natives, to a community proj· ect designed to increase awareness ofthe area's advantages. 
The idea began with a committee of seven, approximately 18 months ago, and has mushroomed "to hundreds of volunteers who are donating their time, supplies and equipment," said Dr. Harvey Wein· garten, a local dentist. 
The community has many advan· tages which the public seems to overlook, said Weingarten, and the campaign will arouse the awareness Notre Dame Director of Financial 
Aid, Joe Russo, said a few things 
should be kept in mind while filling 
out the FAF. Make sure both sides 
are completed, sign the form, and be 
as accurate as possible, he said. 
Even though a signed copy of last year's student and parent's income is necessary, don't wait for the tax return to be completed before hand­ing in the FAF • 
·To become eligible for a gift, loan or a job at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame, a FAF must be filed. When a student fills out a FAF he/she "becomes considered for every­thing" said Judith Casey, director of financial aid at Saint Mary's. The FAF is the only form that must be submit-
of these advantages with television spots, messages on billboards, or­chestration at the Firefly Festival, and themes at the Carnival of the Arts, at the Sunburst Weekend, and at the Ethnic Festival's parade (all local festivals.) It will also be featured at next f.ill's Notre Dame/Army football game. 
"Other than these events, what happens to the campaign is up to the people ofthe community," Weingar­ten said, "Until summer, the cam­paign is purely for the people, and no financial enterprising is going to be incorporated in it." 
Created, thus far, are the theme song, two television spots, four radio spots, and four full-page ads. They all ted to become eligible for available scholarships or grants. 
With the help ofthis form, the fin­ancial aid offices at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's try to provide adequate assistance through any means possi­ble. Often this will result in two or more forms ofassistance "packaged" together. 
Russo said there is no income cut­off for receiving financial aid; anyone might be eligible. The finan­cial aid office decides who gets money based on need and worth. "A student with a family that earns 175,000 may need financial aid more than a student whose family earns S40,000," said Russo. 
have unique themes, such as dignity, compassion, and counge. 
One example of the spontaneous increase in participation involves George Fischoff, a successful com­poser in New York. He wrote the lyric theme song ofthe project. Only four days after being contacted, Fis­choff, a South Bend native, had the completed tape returned by mail. He sent no bill. To get the rock, country, soul, and middle-of-the· road versions, hundreds of people, such as musicians and audio en­gineers, donated their services to edit and to arrange the song. 
Anyone may become involved in the program. Those interested may write to Alive with Pride, South Bend/Mishawaka, P.O. Box 780, South Bend, In. 46624. 
¥ 
The: Oboervn/Ch&lunf" Pu>ch&l
Phone-a-thon 
BillRyder works oneoftbe telephonesat tbepbone-a-tbonfor tbe Women's Care Center last night. This year's drive is expected to net between 130,(}()() and 150,(}()(). 
~,;\ol'r::P[0e1 ,co Dele SPRING BREAK IS NEARIIe This year tan, don't burn; prepare your skin at J.M.S. Plaza 4609 Grope Rood sun tanning solon Mishawaka. IN 277-7026 Can't go to Florida? Get a tan anyway in our booth, beds, or both  



Law School creates jobs for summers 
By ED..EEN HOFFMAN 
News Staff 
Making money while working in a public interest law job is a a reality because of the Notre Dame Law School Sponsored Fellowship Pro· gram. 
This program is designed for stu· dents who want to offer their time and services to public interest jobs but require financial assistance in or­der to do so. These fellowships give each student a salary of S200 per week. 
Each fellowship awarded is for one year. The program here at Notre Dame, coordinated by Assistant Law Professor Theresa Godwin Phelps, is modeled after a similar fellowship program at Harvard University. Each fellowship is awarded for one year. 
Each year beginning in Novem­ber, the NDLSSF program organizes a fund-raising drive and asks mem­bers ofthe Notre Dame law commu­nity to donate 1 percent of their summer earnings to the fund. The number offellowships granted is di· rectly dependent upon the amount offunds collected. 
Anyone interested in helping the NDLSSF program may do so by pledging 1 percent of their summer salary to the fund. Applications for the fellowships are due April 1. All applicants must demonstrate serious interest in a career as a public service lawyer. All students are eligible to receive this fellow­ship. 
Last year 1 1 applications were received and two students were ex· cepted into the program. Approxi­mately S2,000 was raised. This year's goal is S4,000. 
The primary focus of this pro­gram, according to Phelps, is to pro­vide an opportunity to assist the underprivileged in our country. 
YOUR BEST DEAL TO FLORIDA WE DRIVE {THE PARTY STARTS HERE)YOU DRIVE {TO THE PARTY) $94-Sperroom ~ 184-Sperroom 1 04 -4 per room ;p 194-4perroom INCLUDES: FOR FURTHER INFORMATIOH AND SIGN UP • Round trip motor coach transportation to beout1tul Daytona Beach (WE DRIVE Packages Only) We use nothing but modern highway coaches call 239-5136 or • FREE refreshments available on the motor coach on the way down (to begin the party) • EIQht Flor1da days/seven endless nights at one of our stop by 1.5 exciting oceonhont hotels. located right on the Dayton~ Beach strip Vour hotel has a beautiful pool. sun deck. au conditioned rooms. color TV. and a nice long stretch of Lafortune. the beoch • A lull schedule of FREE pool deck parties every day. Senior Class • A full list of pre-arranged discounts1o save you money 1n Daytona Beoch Office­• Travel representatives to insure a smooth trip and a good lime • Optional side elCCUrSions to Disnev World. Epcot deep Mon-Fri. 6-9 pmsea f•shing. party cruises. etc • All taxes and tips sponsored by the Senior Class Open to all ND/SMC students THE GREATEST TIME-THE BEST PRICE  




Wednesday Lenten Reflections -11pm "What Has Lent Meant To You?" Reflections by: 
Fr. Ted Hesburgh Feb. 27 Lyons Sr. Jean Lenz Mar. 6 Morrissey Fr. Jim Burtchae/1 Mar. 13 Lyons Fr. Dave Tyson Mar. 27 Morrissey 
Reflection during a quiet Liturgy Sponsored by Lyons and Morrissey ~~ liturgy Commissions ~~ 
~~~~~~-------......,~ 
View~_o_i_n__t________T_u_esd-ay_,F_eb_ru_ary_2_6,-19-85_p....ag_e5 War veterans deserve thanks, not admiration 
Americans have always loved to celebrate anniversaries so it is not too surprising that a group ofmen gathered this past weekend on a lonely Pacific island 750 miles southeast of Tokyo to celebrate an event that took place 40 ~ears before. On Sept. 19, 1945 three divi-
John Neblo 
outside, looking in 
sions of American marines invaded an other­wise worthless chunk of volcanic ash to clear it of22,000Japanese soldiers and prepare the way for an invasion ofthe Japanese mainland. 
The subsequent battle for IwoJima became the bloodiest engagement involving U.S. troops in World War II in terms ofthe ratio of casualties to combattants. Of the 75,000 marines who hit the beaches, 7,000 were killed and 18,000 were wounded. 20,000 of the 22,000 Japanese defending the island died. The battle of lwo Jima soon joined the Halls of Montezuma and the shores of Tripoli in the annals ofMarine Corps history with the help ofa stirring photograph taken by war cor­respondentJoe Rosenthal ofsix marines in the act ofplantingan American flag on the summit of Mt. Suribachi. The battle was further glorified in a popular film called "The Sands of IwoJima" starringJohn Wayne. 
And so, 40 years later survivors ofthe battle returned to the still worthless chunk of vol­canic ash to ... to what? To relive the horror? To honor their dead? Perhaps just to remem­ber? 
A much bigger ceremony took place this summer in France to celebrate the 40th an­niversary of the invasion of Normandy. Other ceremonies recalled the Battle of the Bulge and the Liberation of Paris. Future celebra­tions are in the works for V-E and and V-J days. In short, 1985 is the year to celebrate, or at least remember, the great battles of World War II. 
I certainly do not wish to seem disrespect­ful of those men who fought in World War II, or of any man who, in good conscience, has served his country in any war. I have never been asked to do so, thank God, and can only imagine the fear, suffering and the sacrifice endured by all who participate. Nevertheless, I find something vaguely disquieting in these celebrations. The speeches, the flags, the bands and the national anthems all combine to leave me feeling uneasy. 
Seeing or hearing one of these ceremonies always recalls a movie I saw several years ago. The movie, "The Americanization of Emily," starred Julie Andrews as driver in World War II London who Calis in love with an American naval officer Oames Garner). The film deals with Andrews' conversion from English pro­priety, honor and duty to Garner's ethic of avowed cowardice. Garner argues that honor­ing war heroes glamorizes and dignifies the thoroughly undignified and inhuman act of warfare. The existence of war heroes, he maintains, makes it easier for politicians to convince young men to go to war. What the world really needs, according to Garner, is more cowards, and he proposes himselfas the ideal role model. 
The movie's inversion of traditional values and unorthodox argument is at first comic and innocent, but the ultimate message is both serious and compelling -heroism propogates 
war. 
To those who have suffered and sacrificed, I give my sympathy and respect (my thanks) but never my admiration. As a society we owe a tremendous debt to our veterans, but we cannot afford to give them our adulation. 
Ifwe must ceremonialiZ'e our battles, let us remember the rows and rows ofcorpses that lined Mt. Suribachi, the maimed bodies and the ruined lives. It might have been better if Joe Rosenthal had never snapped that picture. 
john Neblo is a senior economics major at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 





P.O. Box Q 
Glad of Pettifer's war 
on conventional views 
Dear Editor: 
Ann Pettifer's iconoclastic views bring a rare breath of fresh air to an otherwise pious and parochial campus climate. Although I do not always agree with Pettifer's premises, much less her conclusions, I am glad that she has declared war on the conventional wisdom and has prodded people into looking at old realities from fresh angles. You should urge her to write more often. 
Rev. Isaac McDaniel Brownson Hall 

Low attendance is not a reason to cancel event 
Dear Editor: 
Being the naive, wholesome, yet over­zealous freshmen we are, the scheduled ap­pearance of Father Hesburgh last Monday night seemed like the ideal opportunity to see this semi-mythical man in action. 
Attending a presentation on "The Future of 
Notre Dame" seemed like the proper thing for 
us, being freshmen, to do. 
After trekking across campus to the library auditorium and subsequently falling several times on icy sidewalks, you can imagine our dismay and disappointment when we learned from a note tacked to the door that Father Ted had cancelled due to "unavoidable circum­stances." 
Thinking perhaps Hesburgh had been called away justifiably by wealthy, donating alumni, you can imagine our shock when we read in The Observer the folJowing day that our leader had cancelled due to a lack of publicity and subsequent low attendance. 
We can only hope_that when such future 
events are scheduled that guest speakers will 
have the courtesy and consideration to fulfill 
their committments or at least give advanced 
warning of cancellation for a somewhat 
plausible reason instead of tacking a note on 
the door to avoid possible embarrassment due 
to poor attendance. 
And how does low attendance justify his 
cancellation anyway? Doesn't Notre Dame 
claim a real one-to-one relationship with fac­
ulty and administration as one of its greater 
advantages -or have we gotten this all wrong? 
Susan Foley Megan Scheckler Lewis Hall 

Recall election will not strengthen government 
Dear Editor: 
This is a response to the letter by Edmund Funai on Feb. 18 and his comments regarding the recall of the student government elec­tions. Through his zealous willingness to aid the student government in the restoration of some recently lost credibility, I believe Funai has overlooked two inevitabilities of a recall election. 
First of all, he believes Healy should ''legitimize his election" by welcoming a recall due to the fact that he was elected by a mere 24.3 percent of the student body. I fully understand that this is a disgraceful percentage, but I believe Funai ignores the distinct probability that a recall election would attract an even smaller percentage of voters. In this way, nothing is legitimized, and the student government will only absorb an­other shot to its credibility. 
Second, the newly-elected officials have a task ahead which includes the reinstitution of integrity to the student government. This will be a difficult enough endeavor without having to worry about a recall election. The recall can only hinder any progress the new govem­mentmakes. 
I fully respect the fact that Funai is "tired of listening to people complainingabout student government," but I believe that a recall elec­tion will only drag the recent controversy fur­ther into the depths ofdisgrace. It is now time for student government, as well as for the stu­dent body, to take positive steps toward the construction of a successful and respectable gove&:nment. 
Stephen Lowney Keenan Hall 
Appreciates kindness 

of the football team 
Dear Editor: 

Now that the football season has ended, Aaron Stevens and his dad, Greg, want to thank all the members ofthe football team, the coaches and others who assist the team for beingso kind to us and for allowing us to share a pact of their world -their joys and disap­pointments. Aaron had a lot offun and is crazy about them. He wants all of these people to know that he is their number one fan. 
Also, thanks to all the students around campus who take time to talk with us when we take our walks. They really make our day. 
Gregory T. Stevens Aaron G. Stevens 
Pope John Paul II is a worthy vicar of Christ 
Dear Editor: 

In reply to Ann Pettifer's recent guest column in The Observer, I think that no better choice could be made than Pope John Paul II as the 1987 commencement speaker. Notre Dame is a Catholic university, one of the best in the world. As Catholics, the pope is our spir­itual leader. Simply by virtue of this fact, he should be asked to speak at commencement. However, this pope has even more to offer us. He is a good, just man. He is also "charismatic" -not like a Hitler or a Lenin but like a Christ. 
Growing up, he experienced many hardships. By the age of 20, most of his loved ones had died. He saw his world tom apart by decides to criticize the pope, he or she should war, yet he kept his faith. He gave aid to many first step into the "shoes of the fisherman." Jews in the ghettos, something for which he Maybe then he could see things from the could have been killed or imprisoned. He pope's perspective, as the spiritual leader of clandestinely studied to become a priest. His one ofthe largest religions in the world. defiance, as a young priest, to the communist Lonnie D. Hill,Jr. authorities in Poland should be an inspiration Fisher Hall to us all. With his own hands, he helped build a church for his congregation against the wishes of the government. I dare say that we, 

Viewpoint Policy 

as Americans, cannot fully comprehend the struggle he experienced as an active, defiant 
Viewpoint would like to bear from

priest in a communist country. 
you. Ifyou would like to respond to 

The pope, being of Polish heritage, is con­
something you've read in The 

servative. Because of this, it is often said that 
Observer, why not write a letter to the 

he does nol hear the people on many issues. 
editor. Letters should be well-written, 

..,
However, the papacy has lasted for a very long 
typed, no more than 250 words in 

time. It tries to protect its members. The 
1
length and must bear the signature of 

_,
church is wise parent. 
the author. Letters which are not 

I
signed by the author will not be pub­

The main grievance that I have with Pet­
lished.

titer's column is that her views are too provin­
~ 
But letters are not the only way to

cial. The pope's actions have far-reaching 
1 
voice your opinion in The Observer,

ramifications, not just immediate ones. He 
1
Viewpoint also accepts guest columns. 

I
must attempt to please many diverse groups. 
Guest columns should be well-written, 

1
Being pope means walking a tightrope. As for typed, no more than 500 words in 
I
Pope Pius XII, he did as much as he could to 
length and must bear the signature of

condemn fascism without endangering the 
the author. A guest column, unlike let­

Vatican or its neutrality. Remember, the 
ter to the editor, should not be a direct

Vatican was in the middle ofa fascist Italy. Ifit 
response to another editorial. 

is true that the Vatican helped Barbie to flee, 
Both guest columns and letters to

which the Vatican denies, it is also true that 
tbe editor can be mailed to The

they helped even more Jews, Americans and 
Observer, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 

other allies to safety, an act which could have 
46556, or delivered to either ourNotre

brought Nazi occupation ofthe Vatican. 
Dame office in LaFortuneStudent Cen­
teroroui-SaintMary'soffice in Haggar

On the whole, there have been more good 
College Center. Please include your

popes than bad ones. Many early popes gave 
telephone number. 

their lives for the struggling, young church. 
The Observer reserves the right to

Although the church has not been perfect, it 
edit all material submitted to the

has survived for almost two thousand years. 
Viewpoint department for publica­

I do not always agree with what the pope 
tion.

says, but I will always feel that John Paul is a 
-,
worthy vicar ofChrist. Whenever a theologian .., 
, 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters to the edi!or is en­couraged. 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief_ _ ______ . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager . ..... _... _Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ______ Mark Worscheh Controller . _. _____ ......Dave Stephenitch News Editor .... ___ . _____ Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager ______ . Anne Culligan News Editor ____________ Dan McCullough Circulation Manager . . __ . ___ .. Jeff O'Neill Saint Mary's Editor _____ Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager. __ . __ .. Mark B. Johnson Sports Editor. ___ . _______ Michael Sullivan Production Manager. _. _..... Chris Bowler Viewpoint Editor _______ .. __ . _Dave Grote Project Manager _.. __ . _.... Amy Stephan Features Editor ____ ... _.. _. __ Ma-ry Healy Photo Editor __. _. ___________ Pete Laches 
Founded November 3, 1966 



"Andree Luminere" is preserved in an autochrome. 
r 
r-
r 
' 
r 

autochromes taken between I904 (when Louis Lumiere invented the process) and the 1930's. The show includes prints from the Library's Arnold Genthe Collection, the National Geographic Society, the Ilford-Lumiere andJasienski CoHee· tions, and the Royal Photographic Society ofGreat Britain. 
From the exceptional focusing 
techniques ofJ.C. Warburg, the 
breathtaking European landscaspes 
ofStefanjasienski, to the seducingly 
candid portraits ofArnold Genthe, 
the display presents every aspect of 
early 20th century life in unex­
pectedly vivid hues. 
Because color photography during the early 1900's was relatively unestablished as an artis· tic medium with its own unique characteristics, much of the subject matter is similar to what an artist might have painted during the same era. However, as color photography became more widespread, the images produced seem to gain confidence and take on a less posed bon black and silver emulsion spread evenly on a glass plate, en· abled photographs to be taken 
using only one plate, instead of 
three, as were previously used. The original glass plate images have 
been transferred to fade-resistant IIford Cibachrome printing ma­terial, preserving the color which distinguishes these extraordinary works ofart. 
The Thursday Night Lecture Series sponsored by The Friends of the Snite covers the basic theories related to art. Douglas Kinsey, Asso· ciated Professor ofArt at the Uni· versity of Notre Dame will discuss "Form and Composition." "Line" is the lecture topic ofSaint Mary's College Assistant Professor ofArt, Carol Ann Carter. And Harold Zisla, Indiana University ofSouth Bend's Professor ofArt will speak on "Color!' 
The lectures are February 2 I, March 7 and 14, at 7:30pm, respectively. An admission charge of S2.00 for nonmembers and S1.00 for Friends and students. 

"Andres Meys'drawing room, Paris," 1910. 
This autochrome captures the serenity ofa quiet afternoon. 


Photos by Carol Gales 
~----~~· 

-----------~----------·---~ 
Tuesday, February 26, 1985 -page 6 -_page 7 


'Witness:' Harrison Ford meets the Amish 

l  
Bob Phillips  ~  
Movie review  
I  

/fi//11/!Jh 
~ 

~w~
~ I 
Samuel Lapp, a wide-eyed ten year old Amish boy, was with his mother in a Philadelphia train sta­tion waiting for a train to Baltimore. He had never been to a big city before, and he regarded all around him with fascination. 
Not able to resist exploring this new environment, he began to wander the station, watching the people go about their daily lives all seemingly protected by an angelic statue that loomed above them. 
But the statue was not adequate protection; visiting a Philly restroom for the first time, Samuel saw two well-dressed, dignified­looking men slit a man's throat. Samuel escaped the notice ofthe murderers, but he must then act as the witness to the murder ofa police officer. 
Thus begins Peter Weir's latest film, "Witness." In it, he studies the Amish culture found principally in rural Pennsylvania. It is a culture completely unlike our own and it seems to us a hundred years out of date. Finding the murders too pow­erful to stop, detectiveJohn Book returns the Lapp family to their Amish farm and there (much like Samuel earlier) he views a different world. 
It is a world without cars or telephones, one in which all in­habitants are friends and they pitch in when help is needed. Most im­portantly, Book sees a \YOrld that doesn't understand the widespread vice and rampant violence in our world. 
Much to his credit, Weir doesn't attack city life. Despite all the anger and violence to be found in the city, good people can also be found living and working there. But Weir's interest is in the Amish, and not with the city. 
He shares the Amish distaste for 
bloodshed and focuses on it, 
making the death ofany character 
no matter who it is, a sad event, 
with almost all victims struggling 
desperately for life. There are no 
deaths to be cheered in this film, as one might cheer a death in a "Dirty Harry film." Every life is respected which is an interesting attitude for the director ofa suspense thriller to take. 
The film is not only a suspense thriller; it is also sociological study and a romance betweenJohn Book and the mother ofSamuel. It works well on all three levels. 
The romance is effective in that 
it's understated, with no recourse 
to sex scenes, which would destroy 
completely the Amish atmosphere 
'' The film is not only a suspense thriller, it is also a sociological study and a romance ... '' 
that Weir painstakingly tries to create. The romance is confusing though. Ms. Lapp may be grateful for the protection Book offers in the 
-city but she has no real love for his way oflife, nor he for her's. All they really have to offer each other is mutual good looks. Still, Weir treats their relationship with respect and taste. 
Harrison Ford is suprisingly good asJohn Book. Usually a wooden 
Curious endangered species 

Karen McCloskey 
features staff writer 
What's number one on the 
Indiana State Endangered Species 
list? You guessed it, the Snowplow. 
Snowplows are curious creatures. 
They can work and work and work 
without becoming at all tired. They 
eat only petroleum products and 
they hibernate in the summer. 
Now there's an organization to 
bring about the rehabitation of the 
Hoosier state with this all-too­
scarce creature. The Committee to 
Advocate the Removal ofSnow is 
organizing a campaign to fight the 
Impassible Road Syndrome which 
annually decimates the South Bend 
community. 
I.RS., not to be confused with a 
similarly dreaded monetary afilic­
tion, strikes most often during the 
cold and flu season. Itssymptoms 
include a powdery-white precipita­I tion, massive school and business I closings, and feelings ofdespair, 
aggravation, and agitation. Its long­I term effects include the deprivation I ofeducation and economic retarda­
1 
tion. One midwestern university 
• claims to be immune to I.R.S., but I.RS. still strikes fear into the hearts ofthat university's off-campus stu­dents and faculty. They know the idea ofimmunity to be a fallacious one, indeed. 
How then, you ask, can we fight this nasty, naughty I.R.S.? Quite frankly, the Syndrome has no real cure, and only one natural predator to control it -none other than the rarest ofrare, the endangered Snowplow. 
C.A.RS. wants to reintroduce, or maybe just introduce, the Snowplow to Indiana. By bringing the Snowplow to the Hoosier state, C.A.RS. members hope to lessen the effects ofthe treacherous I.RS. and to improve the general health and well-being ofthe community. 
But C.A.RS. needs your help. It is establishing the "No More Slush" Fund to finance the purchase ofa domesticated Snowplow and its transportation to South Bend. Ifthe fund is large enough, C.A.RS. mem­bers will also purchase a manual called "The Proper Care, Exercise and Grooming ofYour Domest­icated Snowplow." C.A.RS. mem­bers say that this manual is especially helpful for those, like the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's commu­nity, with little or no experience in the handling ofSnowplows. 
Should the "No More Slush" Fund campaign be successful, C.A.RS. will proceed with plans for its next superproject. University specialists are already hard at work in Galvin and Fitzpatrick Halls, designing and developing new breeds of Snowplows. Officials say that these Snowplows will be specially suited to clear campus thoroughfares without posing serious health hazards to pedestrians. Testing of the new breed may begin as soon as April in New Antarctica (known previously as the South Stadium Student Parking Lot). 
In the meantime, join the fight to save the endangered Snowplow and help to wipe out I.R.S. in our lifetime. Send your contributions to "C.A.R.S.," care ofThe Observer. 
Happy trails, you snowbound domers. And try to spend your spring break in a land where precipitation doesn't take up per­manent residency. 
actor overwhelmed by flashy spe­cial effects, he is given a chance to prove that he can show emotion in this relatively quiet film, and he does it well. This is the first time I've seen him given a chance to act seriously, and I was pleasantly suprised. Kelly McGillis is also good 
as Samuel's mother, playing the role with the restraint necessary to 
capture her character's upbringing. 
The real suprise of the film was the performance by Lukas Haas, as Samuel. The boy was perfect in the 'opening ofthe film as a walking camera, betraying little emotion as he observes the city which seems ready to overwhelm him. His stare catches everything. 
When emotion is called for, he's ready, watching the murder with a terrific mix offear and confusion as he tries to understand a scene he's never imagined before. Even in his own world, his curious stare per­sists as he studies Book's and the detectives' attempt to understand the new world that surrounds them. 
Herein lies the major flaw ofthe 
film, making a potentially excellent 
piece ofwork into merely a good 
film. The beginning ofthe film has a 
clear-cut center, the boy. We see 
what he sees, and although we've 
seen it all before, his fascination 
makes us equally fascinated. 
The boy immediately establishes himselfas the most interesting character in the film, aridJt~hn Book, as his name implies,1s a sort ofteacher, exposing the boy to the new world of Philadelphia. 
Then we move to Lancaster Pa., the home ofthe Amish. The boy's role as camera is finished. He vir­tually disappears, and his presence is missed. Ford is given the oppur­tunity to replace him as fascinated observer, but Weir never makes the connection, making the character ofJohn Book into a detached and somewhat amused watcher. 
Book sees the world ofthe Amish as an interesting sidestep in his life, but no more. Weir may love the Amish, but Book doesn't, and the film loses out as a result. 
Despite these losses, the film is worth seeing. Weir's direction is both sensitive and captivating, often gripping us with suspense or lulling us with beauty. And the beauty of rural Pennsylvania plays an impor­tant part in the film, a great contrast to a Philly restroom. 
lbe plotis thrilling and the 
romance fresh and touching. Amish 
leaders have complained that the 
film doesn't present their culture 
accurately, but whether it does or 
not, the culture that is revealed is 
absorbing. 



Vic Sciulli 
Record review 
Provocative, moody, jazzy and bluesy, Diamond life, the debut album from Sade, is the best album by a female vocalist since Rickie Lee Jones' Pirates and one ofthe best by a female vocalist in years. 
Sade (pronounced Shar-D A Y), already a toast ofthe British scene, stands out in a multi-faceted work which merges the classic sounds of jazz and blues with African rhythms and harmonies. To the sensuous clip ofa samba or a pounding Motown pulse, her close col­laborator Stuart Matthewman pro­vides atmospheric guitar accompaniment and smooth sax fills. The two are joined by the seamless rhythm section of Paul Denman (bass) and Paul Cooke (drums). 
It is Sade, however, who is the spotlight. Her power lies in her ability to fuse her silky smooth vocals with the band's rhythm and blues sound to create a graceful yet powerful musical synthesis. Hints of her enchantment withthe sophisti: cated soul-sounds ofearly Motown singers abound. In "Your Love is ­King," Sade's jazzy phrasing evokes memories ofthe late Bille Holiday's classic vocal sound, while "Hang on To Your Love" and "Cherry Pie" are flavored by a smoky nightclub blues sound. 
The Rickie Lee Jones-ish "Sally" is a slower, more intense track. Here Sade's vocals fall to a more desper­ate, pleading sound, meshed per­fectly with Matthewman's gorgeous sax. 
Sade co-wrote all but one ofthe albums nine tracks, the exception being a stunning remake ofthe 1972 Timmy Thomas hit "Why Can't We live Together." The song commences with a tribal drum opening with the other instruments working in one by one until Sade's vocals spill over the instruments. Sad and mesmerizing, it is one of the best tracks on a gem ofanal­bum. 

•
•
•
I 
I t 
~ 
I 
Tuesday, February 26, 1985 -page 8 







Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club has an­nounced that all members going to Austin must pay their S50 deposit today. Patty Bergin will collect the money -cash or check ­at 153 Farley Hall. For more information, call Paul Sherman at 283­4115.-the Observer 
A snow softball tournament is being held by 
the NO Millions Against MS Committee next weekend. The entry fee for teams of five men and five women is Sl 0, which goes to MS. Prizes will be awarded to the winning team. Anyone who is inter­ested may sign up today from 3:30p.m. to 5:30p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. For more information, call Steve at 283-1045 or Jeff at 283­1049. -The Observer 
A mysteryguestfrom the Notre Dame basketball team will be on "Speaking of Sports" tonight at 9 p.m. on WVFI AM64. Usteners may ask questions or voice opinions about Irish basketball by calling cohosts Chuck Freeby and Kevin Herbert at 239-6400. ­
The Observer 
An open broomball tournament, to be 
played in sneakers, will be held by NVA on Saturday from 3:45p.m. to 6:45p.m. The deadline to register rosters ofsix or more players is tomorrow at the NVA office. -The Observer 
A racquetball clinicfor intermediate players will be held Thursday at 7 p.m. at court I in the ACC. Noel O'Sullivan will instruct players on strategy and technique in the free clinic. Anyone who is interested should sign up in advance at the NVA office or call 239-6100. -The Observer 
NVA wrestling tournament participants may attend open practice sessions throughout this week from 6:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. in the ACC Pit. A mandatory weigh-in will be held on Sunday from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. Anyone who fails to weigh in and produce insurance information at that time will not be eligible for the tournament. The tournament will be held March 5, 7 and 11. ­The Observer 
Buder U Diversity'S Sigma Nu Fraternity will sponsor a 24-hour, 50-man relay starting tomorrow at 7 p.m. at the ACC to raise money for Special Olympics. The fraternity members will run the l 50 miles to the Butler Fieldhouse with a basketball, arriving in time for the tipoff of the Notre Dame-Butler basketball game Thursday at 7:30p.m.-The Obvserver 
The ND women's tennis teamdefeated Saint 
Mary's in a scrimmage yesterday, 7-1, in the Angela Athletic Facility.­
The Observer 
AP 
Top Twenty 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Presa poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses. this season's records and total points P01nts basec on 2Q-19-18·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. St. John's (64) 24·1 1280 2. Georgetown 25-2 1216 3. M1chigan 21-3 1127 4. Memphis St. 22-2 1105 
s. Duke 2D-S 934 
6. Oklahoma 22-5 901 7. Louisiana Tech 24-2 771 8. North Carolina 21·6 704 
9. Nev. -Las Vegas 22-3 678 10. Georgia Tech 19-6 666 11 . Kansas 22·6 647 12. Syracuse 19-6 645 13. So. Methodist 21-6 587 14. Georgia 19-6 443 15. Tulsa 20·5 414 
16. N. Carolina St. 18·7 245 17. Va. Commonwealth 21-5 219 18. Illinois 21-8 155 19. Arizona 20·7 124 20. Loyola 2Q-5 98 
The Ohsen'er Notre Dam<: offi<:c:. I<Katt·d on tht: third floor of l.afortunt· Studt:nt Ct:nter, accepts classitkd advt·rtising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsert'er Saint Mary's offin·. locatnl on the: third floor of Haggar College Center, accc:pts dassifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. until .3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Dt:adlinc: for nc:xt·day classifkds is .3 p.m. All cla"ific:ds must he prc:paid. c:ither in person or hy mail. Chargt· is I 0 <"tents pc:r fivt: charat··




Classifieds 
ters er dav. 

""PRESS YOUR LUCK"' Game Show will IOWA IOWA IOWA (Iowa State thai IS) I HOW OLD IS THAT DOGGIE IN THE get medalion. Possibly lost in the ACC WINDOW? HAPPY BIRTHDAY LOVE. 
Lost: Gold robe chain with solid gold nug­
choose 2 Notre Dame Students for an EX­need a ride to that great state with 3NOTICES Thursday night in the 1ndoor soccer tourn­TICKETS PENSE PAID TRIP TO HOLLYWOOD to syllables and only 4 letters in its name. I MISS TEXAS AND MISS GOOD ament neer gym one or two upstairs. Sen­
be contestants on their College Days can leeve anytime this Friday . Call Terr1 timental value and reward is offered$$$$. 
show MARCH 22-24. Applications are at4570. 
TYPING CAU CHRIS 234-8997 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU MRS. COkER, 233-7009. 
WOAOPROCESSING ZTT-6045 
Student Available for B&byS,tting ~ LOVE Kids and Doaa -Call between 7 and 9 am Lisa 283-30:3:3 
NEED RIDE TO LU.(BLOOMINGTON) March 1.0R Will rent car-NEED RIDERS 
LOST/FOUND 
I LOST MY BB TICKET AT THAT TEA· RIBLE GAME AGAINST LOYOLA. SEC­TION 3 ROW 2. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL JACK AT 1670. MY NAME IS ON IT. PLEASE. I AM A SENIOR AND THIS IS MY LAST CHANCE TO SEE OUR TEAM DO WELL 
REWARD! $50.00 offered lor brown Sempaonlle hard SUitcase Luggage tag says Douglas Snell. Call John on days or dispatcher 911en1ngs at United L1mo PLEASE 674-6993 or 255-3068 
HELP'!!! I fosl a large nnastone old· faah1oned d1p somewhere at the JPW cocktail dance on Fnday: much.much sanumental valuellll If found. or know of 1ts whereabouts calfL1nda at2n-6856. 
LOST-Camera llaah On the cross country course beck by the cometary. If found please call 264-5186 Reward: 1 SIX pack 
To whorn911er tool< my Ralph Lauren feen f8Cket lrorn sen1or ber-Since my license was in the pocket you obviously know who 11 belongs to. I'll pay to get it back. but if you really need a f8Cketthat badly. could you at least ma11 my license back to me? You have my name and my campus ad­dress is in the book (SMC). 
LOST: PAIR OF BROWN LEATHER GLOVES IN ROOM 223 HAYE$-HEAL Y WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON (2/20/85). CAll BRIAN ) 239-7276 AND LEAVE MESSAGE REWARD$$. 
LOST: Navy blue doll. N.D. mascot, last seen after P,..W.ILEWIS intra mural bball game. GYfll 4. ACC. Tuesday, Feb 19. Much sentfmental value. she was a birthday present. Please call Bartl at 
4238. 
LOST· eam..llaeh On the cross country course back by the ~-lfJound please cal1284-5186. R-.:1: 1 six pack. 
To whomever tool< my Ralph Lauren tean jacket from sen1or bar: Since my license was in the pocket you obviously know who i1 belongs to. 1"11 pay to get it back, but if you r&ally need a jacketlhat badly. could 
you at least mal my """""" back to me7 You have my name and my campus ad­_ Ia In the book (SMC). 
LOST: In the candor under the stands at the ACC ice rink; a black 'CCM" hockey helmet (21 on beck). Probably left there 
-the Pangbom-Aiumni game (19 Feb). Haa the,.,.. "Jay Sullivan" on it. Cal Tim a1 x2367. 
If foond please call Mike Viracola at 283­4100 anytime. 
GOLD 10 Bracelet at Brigdet"s or Corby Street CALL 5118 ask for Cethyann 
LOST: Grey leather jacket at Senior Bar Friday Night. School 10. Keys. and Dnvers License in the pocket. REWARD. phone:3567 
LOST SINGLE-STRAND PEARL NECKLACE Please!! Please!!!! Call Jod1e 1669 Lost on campus groonds 
FOR RENT 

NOW RENTING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR -4. 5 & 6-BDRM. HOMES. COM· PLETELY FURN. INCL. WASHER & DRYER. 234-9364. 
WANTED 

-Ride to Columbua, OH thiS weekend Cen feeve anytime Friday, March 1 
Please call Tracy &1284-5185 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER TtiURSDAY MOANING, MARCH 14. WlU SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
Native New Englanders seek freedom of Midwestern mentality. Need ride horne anyt1me. Cal13884 to pr811ent extinction of p1ece of mind. 
GET AWAY!! need riders to Cl811aland/Western NY for this weekend call2894 
NEED RIDE TO Uofl 3/1-3/3 JAMES x1022 
Need riders to St. Lois. Leaving Fri. March 
t. Call Kacey 284-5221 after 10p.m. 
NEED RIDERS to PGH./ WESTERN PA. this weekend. Call Terri 2n-7455. 
nders needed to go to FLORIDA. DAYTONA. FT.LAUDERDALE. in luxury motor horne. $80 roond trip. call JEFF "'FIOCH"3467. OR BUGER 4051 
RIDE NEEDED TO I.U.·BLOOMINGTON March 1 OR, WIN rent car-so if you want to leeve behind the South Bend Blues call Mike 1581' or Ed 1160 WE NEED RIDERS! 
FOR SALE 

CHEAPER MAXELL XLII 90"$ $24 FOR 10.1150 
HELP! GOT LEG IN CAST.CANT GO ON SKI TRIP. MAR 1-3. HELP ME OUT BY TAKING MY PLACE. $125 w/rental BUT NEGOTIABLE. EXTRA SPOTS AVAILABLE FOR FRIENDS. CAll O'B AT2n-4617. 
for Safe:BUNDY ALTO SAX--good con­dition & indestructabl&--incl accessories-­best offer-call Rob-3305. 
............................... 
SPRING CLEANING Students available for Hou88Cfeaning! We will take on any TASK -LARGE or small! Call Usa Be­tween 7 and 9am at 283-3033. 
HELP!II My parents have never seen an NO bas­ketball game. and t"m about to graduate' If you have any available GA's for a weekend game. call Lorie at2810-Today' (f"m a bit of a pup. so money is no object.) 
ed NEED 2 OR 4 GA"S FOR WASHING­TON GAME PLEASE CALL HELEN 3505. 
WANTED: 2 GAs for the Washington game cell 264-4230 
You got ·em. me want"em 
Me pay big wampum for your tix! 
Need 2 GA for Washing1on 
Cell Mary 264 -4365 
I URGENTLY NEED 5 TICKETS TO THE WASHINGTON GAME, MONEY NO OB­JECT STEVE 1653 
Need 2 Wash. GA"s cell Tom 1022 
I NEED 3 WASHINGTON GA·s. x4197 ask for Mike. 
PERSONALS 

PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234­0363. 24 hour holline/free pregnancy test available. WOMEN"$ CARE CENTER 
BEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE: DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING BREAK '85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­DENTS. CALL 239-5136 OR STOP BY SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1.5 LAFORTUNE, MON-FRI. 6-9pm. 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER TtiURSDAY MOANING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CAU MIKE AT x1745. 
HELP!!!! l"m searching for a large rinestone old-fashioned clip that I lost at the JPW cock1ail dance -it"s got much sentimental value' If you've seen it, call Linda at 277-6856. 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
)()()()()()()())(){)()()()( WE WANT YOU!!! Student Government needs people who want to make a difference! Applications for STUDENT GOVERN­MENT CABINET positions for Bill Healy and Duana Lawrence's Cabinet are now available in the 2nd floor LaFortune offices. Applications are due no later then FRIDAY, MARCH 8 (the week prior to Spring Breek). Corne out and help us rebuild Student Government!!! 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 

The Schwerha is on the loose! 
ATIENTION!! TOM ""THE SEX MA­CHINE" IRVIN IS 22 TODAYII!! IRV: REMBER FRANKYS, PURPLE RAIN, BARCLAYS, BRANDY, MILLERS, FLORIDA!!, J.D., VW"S, CASABLANCA, BEATLES, LETIERMAN, AND THE REST! TRY AND STAY SOOER AND STAY AWAY FROM MUSHROOMS TONIGHT!!! M.M. J.C. SCHAF AND THE GANG P.S. SHE"S NOT WORTH IT! !IIIII!!!! 
available in the STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 1st Floor Lafortune. Entry Deadline is 5:00PM on WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27. 
To the Anonymous Gi~! Hey. who are you? You called me last Set. with a sing­ing valentine and wanted to "Seduce Me Tonight." Call me back--the suspense is devastating. Ron. 
-Ride to Columbua, Oh March 1. Will share expenses. Please call Tracy at 284-5185.Thanks. 
MICK JAGGER's solo album She's the Boss now on sale at Rock Du Lac. Notre Dame's record store. 1st floor LaFortune. 
No Jacket Required, Phil Collfna's new solo album is on sale now at Rock du Lac. 1st floor LaFortune. Stop by and check out our discount prices on albums. cas­senes. and blank tapes. 
Does sunshine on your shoulders make you heppy? Then take the bus down to Daytona Beach or Ft. Lauderdale with the SAB! For the measly sum of $100 you cen get transporta1ion to the land of sun and fun. Cell SAB at239-n57 for more info. 
Have you been so absorbed in you nu­clear accounting text that you haven't heard about the great !rips to Ft. Lauderdale and Daytona Beach? Well, it is time that you called lhe Student Activi­ties Board and found out about them' Do it soon. spring break's coming up last. 
SENIOR FORMAL TIX on sale today at LaFortune and LeMans from 5 to 7 pm. $56 indudes cocktail hour, dinner. and dance. 
WHO EVER YOU WERE: Good works do not make a good man. but a good man does good works. Thank you for carrymg me over the puddles· 
SherriD 
KEVIN MOSER Write now ($.22) and wish K811in a happy 21st (March 8) Centro lnternacional Aven~da Cerra de las Torres 395 Col. Campestre Churubusco 04200 Mexico, 
D.F. Mexico 
RUNNIN' REBELS . OUt of control in '85 . 
Lou, Debbie, •ndTerry You, too, are loved. 
I will do wall on my lest. .. not 
HEY blond CHEG jr. from BP who brunchec with Acct at JPW, call20971ate 
To Fred WILSON whose name is really Fred NELSON: Sorry!! --MK 
DATE NEEDED: KEENAN SYR Require­ments: Female, under 2491bs., no experi· ence necessary. Call DAVE at 3376. any time 
HEY CHOWEY ......4 BEERS?! A VIRUS? .... C'MON!! 
C. BOLGER PLEASE CAll ME ASAP, YOUR COMPUTER SWEETHEART 
CHRISTINA K. HAD A LOVELY EVE· NING Wllti YOU. GIVE ME A RING, YOUR COMPUTER STUD!! 
What shall we use to fill the empty Spaces where we ueed to talk How shall I fill the final places How shall I complete the Wall? Pink Floyd 
CATCH A WAVE! ""BIG WEDNESDAY" SHOWING THURS IN CHATAUOUA AT 9& 11 
There was a Sherman called BOY Wearing a uniform he may not enjoy. His dreem is Johns Hop-but May not be a CREW cut, Be nice to gramma. or "SHIPS AHOY' GOOD LUCK! ..PF 
Kathleen-0: What do a pocket full of M&M's. Raiders of the Lost Ark: the corn· edy. the greet poster search, and Hugh­morous party pies have in common? A: A great S.Y.R. Thanks! 
Ride needed to CHICAGO (Evanston/Northwestern) Thursday af­ternoon. Feb. 28. Please call Fred at 1717. 
Merril Cerol: I've got a great idea: I'll meet you at the Huddle. we can chug wine spnl· zers in the Arkie building and then its off to Nieuwland for an 8\lening of fun and frol1c. Brush up on your trinomials! 
HELP! Where can I find counseling on Mining in California and the Oregon Trail? Counseline doesn't have tapes lor these. If you can help, please cell2600. 
Call WAD at 2265 and tell him how n1ce his $50 haircut looks 
SKI VAIL COLO SPRING BREAK Condo sleeps 41. Ful Kitch, FRPL. Jaoo.Jzi. Pool. LV M56 303-665-2700 
Hey Seniors, lat'• pttrty!! Where: SMC Clubhouse When: Wednesday. Feb. 27 from 9-1 $3 all you can drink, 21 ID requirec 
JUNIOR CLASS AT BACKSTAGE! WED· NESDAY FEB.27. 10PMII 
WHY THE TURTLENECK.FRED? -YOUR '"NECK" ADMIRERS. 
LISA-Thanks for a goOd time. but next time take it easy on my lower lip. JOHN F. 
FREE SM. DRINK WHEN YOU ORDER A SUB. CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO-TH 8­11 pm FR-SA 8pm-1 am 
Could you maybe act a little more like a cardboard box so I could have a bener 11me at the formal? Could you do that for me please? 
Th~ M;;~ ~;.;d ~u:;; i~l~ieci per­aona: ~ •ttend the p,._ntatlon on Buddhlam given by your fellow atu­denta... Maureen Jonea, Gary Kopyclnakl •nd Kevin McAievy: Wed­needily, Feb. 27 et 10 pm In 341 O'Shag. 
BISHOP WlLLJAM MCMANUS of Fort W•vr--South Bend 
~kaon 
"TtiE AMERICAN ECONOMY AND THE BISHOP'S LETIER'' 
Wed~y. February 27 
7:00PM Howard Hell ALL INVITED 
Now open! 
Papa Gene's Pizza Crematorium ..... One flavor (carbon) and one cooking time (very well done). Delivery available through NO Fire De­par1ment. Offer available in Stanford only. 
LONG ISLAND CLUB SPRING BREAK BUS: Sign ups this WED night at 7pm Lafortune Lobby. Round Trip $73. Bus will stop at Hempstead Greyhound terminal and ISLIP bus terminal. The bus will leeve Fri. Mar 15,a16:15pm. Formoreinfocall Pete 2453, or Kathleen 2905. 
""WHAT YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT THE OPPOSITE SEX BUT WERE AFRAID TO ASK'" Find out WED. FEB 27 AT 7:00PM IN CARROLL HALL'S PARTY ROOM 
rich-i think you're cute! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY PETER McNULTY· FROM THE BLONDE NEXT TO YOU IN SP 122! 
Tomorrow night B.A.M.H. (Born Agam Man-Haters dub) will hold a pep rally Come along gi~s and yell at the most hated man of your dreams. Wienn1e roast will follow. Calf 5319or 5067 for details 
Reehty 1: The Gipper diec of syphillis. Reality 2: South Bend air reeks of Elhynol. Reel1ty 3: Small, under-paid children make the dinner rolls at the Morns Inn. Reality 4: You are chuckling right now so you can't be that indifferent. 
ATIENTIONI THE FIRST ANNUAL ND/SMC TOOTH CHEWING CONTEST TAKES PLACE THIS WEEKEND LED BY THE WORLD'S BEST-IF NOT MOST FAMOUS-TOOTH CHEWER HER­SELF.. MISS CARRIE LYNCH! FOR MORE INFO ABOUT THIS AMAZING EVENT CONTACT KATHLEEN. CLARE. MARY, OR THE T.C. QUEEN. 
Tm Easy· , "Always and For911er . and '"Lady'" Remember? The good ole days!! 
Dan I had a good time but you left too soon I I'd like to see you again. 
Your Computer Date 
Ski Colorado 
SpnngBreak Need skiers to share expenses lor condo in Breckenndge. Cynthia 284 -5334 
N.D. HOCKEY: Great Season on the 1ce. now let"s see what you can do off the 1ce' 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY FISHER""MAN 
When I saw you in those shades that 1st time, 
I must admit, you were looking mighty fine. 
A jumor is what I thought you were, 
And certainly what I'd prefer. 
So now l"m stuck with a little lrosh. 
But that"s OK 'cuz I'm the boss. 
'"Call me up, come visit me!" 
A slave Is what you're meant to be. 
I'm sure after you reed this I'll be deed. 
But if it's between that& you,l'd beaheed' 
Seriously now, all things asida. 
I think that you're a super guy. 
Basically what I want to say (is) 
I hope your 19th is one greet day! 
Happy Birthday 
Love, Mego 
Going to Miami U. on 3/1 or in1erested in going? CaR 284 -5087. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

ND women fencers end season with 12-7 record 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, February 26, 1985-page 9 

By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL were very, very close to winning Sports Writer many times... against Northwestern, we wer(' within a touch." The Notre Dame women's fencing 
On Saturday, the lnsh began the team finished its regular season on day on a strong note with a perfectSaturday and continued a string of 9·0 score against the Chicago13 straight winning seasons with a Maroons and a nice 14-2 margin12-7 mark on the year. 
over the Purdue Boilermakers. Since 
Disappointing, however, were the women's fencing came to Notre results from the season-ending Irish Dame, the Irish have yet to lose to Invitational which showed only two either school. 
wins for the Irish against three Entering the noontime hours,defeats. 
however, Notre Dame's momentum According to Irish Head Coach slowed. Fencing a strong Northwes­Mike DeCicco, the poor showing tern team, they were overcome by a was a result of weak performances slight 7-9 margin. Against Wiscon­from the number two, three, and sin, the Irish realized the same result four spots on the squad. Neverthe­at the hands of last year's sixth best less, he believes the Irish still have a team in the country. 
strong chance to qu~ for the. NCAA tournament to be held at Against the Wayne State Tartans, Notre Dame beginningon March 18. the Irish unfortunately ended their 
"As a team, we have a good shot at season on a losing note. They lost to making the tournament," said last year's eleventh place team in the DeCicco: "We proved it today. We season finale by a ~ore of5-11. The 
• • • • • • • • NEW GROUP • 1ST TIME EVER • • • • • • • • 
Famil~ Ties 
a ehanee to •*amine~our famil~ relationships 
12 -1 :15 Wednesday Starting February 27th 
If interested, Call239·7336 to sign up 
(Counseling & Psychological Services) 
• • • • • • • • NEW GROUP • 1ST TIME EVER • • • • • • • • 

I Greyhound
givesyou abreak

l onSpringBreak. 
Round trip. Anywhere Greyhound goes. 
This springbreak, ifyou and your friends are from thedale ofpurchase. thinkingabout heading to the slopes, the beach or Sothis springbreak, get areal break. Goany­just home for avisit, Greywund can lakeyou there. where G"')ilound goesfor $99 or less._ Foronly $99or less, round trip. Formore infonnation, call: 
Just show us yourcollege student I.D. card 
GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL 
..tlenyou purchaseyour Grf)'11ound ticket. Yoor 
{MICHIANA REGIO~AL AIRPORn 
ticket will then be good for travel for 15 days 
287~541 

.\'u.lr-o....,'l'llav..hdo~"'*"t.I).~~ • .,JU\~ Nuo~tk-<.~IIR~~ r._..._,~ ....~Mid)IU!dkK!r.MI~(~Lft:..,ll•:.,:nl H(ho.'fJUh.lll'....:~ Cl"fbin!'Nri1R""'~ Olltnfftoo.1M'2·1~'l Oth:rlimlk.'d r.\al•.llo'lt.-ada 

GOGREYHOUND 
And leavethedrivingtous. 
loss marked the 14th one for the Irish in 15 outings against Wayne State. 
While the results proved rather grim, they did nevertheless prove that the Irish are able to compete with the best. The 5-11 loss to the Tartans, was, in the end, an improve­ment over an early 13-3 loss in which freshman Molly Sullivan ac­counted for all three Irish wins. 
"The three teams that are going to make it to the NCAAs from the Mid­west will come from a group includ­ing Ohio State, Wayne State, Wisconsin, Northwestern, and Notre Dame," said DeCicco. "I'd like to think that we'll be fencing in the ACC on March 18.". 
Leading the way for the Irish over the weekend and over the course of the season was Sullivan. The rookie 
Challenge midwest powerhouses 

Saint Mary's fencers lose three 
By ANDREA LAFRENIERE Northwestern, 11·5, and then were Sports Writer beaten, 16-0, by Wayne State. The team came back with a victory over The Saint Mary's fencing team fell Purdue, winning, 11-5, but dropped to 6-11 on the seasonSaturday at the its last meet to Wisconsin by the 
team's first home meet ofthe season, same 11-5 score. 
where the Belles simply encoun­"We had some very good compe­
tered more experienced teams. tition," said junior Mary Fran Wilkin. "When Wayne State is here it's al­"I thought we fenced well," said ways a big weekend." Belles head coach Mike Weeks. "We just faced some tough opponents." Saint Mary's was scheduled to The Belles lost their first meet to fence Michigan State on Friday 

Marquette dominates Belles, Irish in SMC annual soccer tournament 
By MARY O'CONNOR 
Sports Writer 
Thisweekend, Saint Mary's played host to seven other teams, including Notre Dame, in the Saint Mary's Col­lege Second Annual Soccer Tourna­ment which was held in the Angela Athletic Facility. Marquette captured the round-robin tourney, with the Belles finishing l-1-2 and the Irish 0-3. 
The tournament was a two-day af­fair that featured teams from all over 
ProfessionalTyping 
TINA'S SECRETARIAL SERVICE 
-Multiple Letters -Resumes -Dissertations -Term Papers -Same Day Service Available 
232-8749 

foilist was untouched for the weekend at 12-0. The perfect outing propelled her season· record to a team leading 43-4 for the year. 
"Right now, Molly Sullivan is fen­cing tough," said DeCicco. "She will, I expect, make the NCAAs no matter what." 
Fencingfrom the number two and number three spots for the Irish were sophomores Vittoria Quaroni and Cindy Weeks. Quaroni went 7-9 on Saturday to move to a nice 34-21 on the year. lifetime, she is 48-30. Weeks went 9-8 to go 34-24 on the season. Weeks, at 60-37 in two years, was the only fencer other than Sul­livan to win against Wayne State this year as she went 1-3 against the Tar­tans on Saturday. 
· Junior captain Janet Sullivan finished a slightly disappointing 
the Midwest. Joining Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Marquette were teams from Hope College, Eastern U­linois, Michigan State, Indiana, Northwestern. 
On Saturday, the first day of play, Saint Mary's started off the tourney on a good note, beating Notre Dame as Mary Anne Perri scored the only goals of the game in the Belles' 2-0 victory. Goalie Patty Hatfield was very effective in keeping the Irish from scoring. 
Saint Mary's ended the day with a 1-0.1 record aftercomingaway with a hard-fought 1-1 tie with Hope. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame contin­ued to have trouble as a strong 
After~ lastexam, what tOughquestions will you still befacing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions. 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One· Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 

Contact: Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. 
Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame. IN 46556 (21 9) 283-6385 
night, but the Michigan State women fencers didn't show. 
The Belles' next important meet will be the Great Lakes Champion­ships Saturday at the ACC. Fencing teams from the Midwest area will at· tend. 
SaiAt Mary's performance at the meet will determine whether or not it travels to the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA) women's fencing tournament later in the season. 
season at 29-30 as she was 6-10 on Saturday. 
A definate plus for DeCicco's squad was a 6-1 perform;Jllce by sophomore Christina Sardegna Ac­cording to DeCicco, Sardegna, at 13­7 on the year, will be looked at closely to perhaps provide an added punch in the NCAA qualifying rounds this weekend in Evanston, U­linois. 
Rounding out the Irish roster were senior Celeste Kowalski at 2-1 ( 11-10 ), and juniors Ilnda Gase at l­1 ( 4-4) and Cecilia Williams at 1-2 (1-2). 
The Irish get back into the gym this week as they prepare for the Great Lakes Championships to be held on Saturday in the ACC and the NCAA qualifying round to be held at Northwestern on Sunday. 
Indiana team defeated the Irish, 4-1. Every other team in the field won or tied at least one game as Michigan State defeated Eastern illinois and then lost to Marquette, Indiana beat Hope, and Northwestern beat Mar­quette and then lost to Eastern illi· nois. 
Saint Mary's found itselfin a good position as it began the second day of competition with an important matchup with Indiana. After an in· tense battle, though, the Hoosiers emerged with a 1-0 win. The loss dropped the Belles into a consola­tion match with Michigan State, a game which eventually ended in a 2­2 tie. Katy Boldt and Sue Schierl scored the goals for Saint Mary's. 


The Observer Tuesday, February 26, 1985 -page I 0 

Notre Dame wrestlers pin Warriors !"jOiiN"MAiiS"iiAi.L""":····i 
durl·ng weekend trt·p to Milwaukee 
By CHUCK FREEBY  teammate Guy Locksmith  won  by  That  set  the  stage  for  Notre  
Sports Writer  forfeit at 126 pounds,  Dame's best wrestler this  season,  
The  Warriors  were  still  in  the  John Krug at 167 pounds, and Krug  
match, though, as two of their best  delivered. The junior from Cincin­ 
MILWAUKEE, Wis.  - After last  wrestlers came out at 134 and 142.  nati  steamroUed  over  Greg  Pac­ 

weekend's upset of Nebraska, you Marquette's Toni Pecora, who en­howitz, pinning his Warrior 
: LAw scHooL \%~~~\1 i 
: 1393 Peachtree St., N.E. Atlanta, GA 30309 ;>;:~:~· •
f APPLICATIONS TAKEN NOW · flif:G..'!!February, June, September Ad!!lissions V1 ! • Day or Evening Classes •
. :
-~ 
: John Marshall Law School admits without regard : 

couldn't blame Notre Dame coach 
tered the action with a 41-2 record, opponent in only 1:36 to give the : to national or ethnic origin :
Fran McCann if he was concerned 
trailed freshman Ron Wisniewski 5-Irish an insurmountable 29-3 lead. 
about a letdown on Saturday against 2 early in the match before rallying Senior captain Phil Baty put some 
~ APPROVED FOR VETERANS :

Marquette. Nevenheless, the only for a 7-5 victory. However, Notre icing on the cake with his win at I 77 
things that were down on the mats ; Graduation from John Marshall meets the :
Dame's Don Heintzelman stopped pounds. Baty, who has been in a bit 
on Saturday were Marquette • ••
the Warriors' momentum, defeating of a slump lately, posted a shutout • requirements for admission to the Bar • 
shoulders, as the Irish drubbed the Jim Schmitz, 6-4, to give Notre Dame with a 7-0 whitewashing of Shawn • • 
Warriors, 33-9. : Examination in Georgia and Indiana ONLY ; 
a I 5-3 lead. McLaughlin and earned the praises 
"We looked good this weekend," "I was pleased with the way Ron ofhis coach. : ( 404) 872-3593 : noted McCann, whose team com­Wisniewski wrestled," commented "Phil just came out and pleted Its regular season with an 8-4 McCann. "He did a nice job against a dominated the kid," remarked dual meet record. "On paper, it very tough kid. Then, Heintzelman McCann. "He hasn't been wrestling looked like it would be a close came back against a kid he has lost to weU lately, so it was good to see him match, but we came out and twice this year and beat him, so that snap out of it at the end of the 


r----------------~ 

excuted and did it with enthusiasm." was a big match for us." season." 

I Natre Dame I

From that point, Notre Dame 
That enthusiasm showed Immedi­began to roU, as Luke DiSabato With the final regular season meet ately, as Notre Dame took a quick raised his record to 14-12 with a now history, McCann has his I 2-0 lead after two matches. At 118 decision over Seamus Ford at I 50 wrestlers looking towards the NCAA 

I Avenue I 

pounds, Notre Dame's Carl pounds, before freshman Ken Kasler Western Regionals this weekend in Hildlnger came up with a fine pin of earned a superior decision over Des Moines. "We're pleased with Jim Uhlln at the 4:50 mark, while Greg Boehm by a 16-4 count. our 8-4 record, but we can't rest on 

I Apartments I 

our laurels," says McCann. "We're Uoyd Constable andJames Patter­wrestling with confidence now and I I son led the Irish in the field events. our kids are looking forward to this
Track I Apartments Available for I
Constable won the high jump with a tournament. This has to be our pri­7-1/4 effon, and Patterson took mary goal as a team, and for our indi­I Summer Months I
continuedfrom page 12 
second in the long jump with a 24-5 viduals as well. I would like to see us first 1000-yard run this season," said in addition to triple jumping 47-9. finish in the top ten and place a Plane. Bill Counney captured first Freshman standout Dan Garrett couple ofkids in the national tourna­1 Callofflce 3-6p.m.daily 1 place In the mile with a 4:10 clock­ran extremely weU in a competitive ment." 
ing. I 234-6647 I
two-mile race, capturing third place If the Irish wrestle this weekend Phil Gilmore recorded a major ac­In 9:04.11. Garrett had been sick for as they did Saturday, that may not be complishment, as he came back a month and had been unraced. just wishful thinking. 
.. I ____·------------· I 

from a season-long injury to run 6.58 Plane held back his sprinters in the 60-yard dash. Gilmore along with distance man Tim Can­qualified for the IC4A's with a 6.2 non to rest them for the IC4A's. He is 
60-yard dash at the first meet of the now confident that they and those year, but incurred an Injury shortly who competed last weekend will be thereaftc:r. prepared to run Saturday. 
The Healy Company is looking for bright, aggressive young people in­terested in financial planning and in­surance. Do you qualify? Call the Placement Office today to schedule an interview for Thursday, February 28, 
1985. 
Edward M.E. Healy, CLU General Agent, Mutuall,.ife Insurance Co. 
*********************************** 
* *
* * 

: We Want You! : 
: * i* 
* Applications * : for Bill Healy & Duane lawrence's ; : 1985-86 Cabinet ~ 
* !
: are now available ;: ~ 2nd Floor LaFortune ~ 
~ Ex•cutiv• Caardinatar• : : Cabin•t M•mb•r• : : Tran•f•rDri•ntatian Cammittee : : Fra•h Dri•ntatian Cammitt•• : 
: : 
: MAKE A DIFFERENCE : : IN !
* * 


:STUDENT GOVERNMENT i : i
a APPLICATIONS DUE :
* March a.1985 : 
*: :* 
*********************************** 





~4C:t~C3l~--------------------------------------T_u_e_s_d_ay_,_F_eb_rn
__ruy__z_6_,_1_9_85----pa_g_e_l_l 

Doonesbury 
Zeto 
PROFESSOR ll31D 
TURNED MY SHORT STORY INTO THE SMUGGLER. 


Bloom County 

D 
A 
R 
]) 
y 
8 .. 
\ 

t-:1\lt\' ) 

Berke Breathed 
11£ llX1? Gilf H/15 'I{)() COP£S OF 
1 CIWIIT HIM 0/?IJfK/N& 
f!€C()+'£ II 5t.IIV6 77J U/111/T "BOX·CI/fl. Wilt. Y'5 
llfll£fm5/N(!' IIIIPP€Nell? fi/VOI?IrE Pff((JI/IIlN 
8fNKl€'f... IIN 
1/(!{_Y CllSI!IILTY I Hllfl70 Si.fiP 
/JI?/1/KINb SONGS. • 
Of MAP/5~ 111/E:Nr/€... \ HfMl 



~''"~~ 
~' ..· >,, 
~ 
r 
~ 
!lOW 
Jtf?Kff!lY H~ LOOKS 511P. IN Pl//11...
\I~ 

L
. ­
,: [ 
...._..__ ' ~~ 

The Daily Crossword 

The Far Side 
. 


ACROSS 1 Judicial bench 5 Goes it alone 1 0 Letter opener 14 Draft classl· ficatlon 15 Went stealthily  37 Side dish 39 Ethnic group 41 Cowboy contest 43 Josip Broz 44 Dim the eyes 46 Speech defects  71 Squirming 72 Onion cousins 73 "The Empire Strikes Back" character  12 Sales caveat 13 De~cartes 21 Copycat 23 Is off guard 25 Computer language  54 Make amends 56 Geological angle 57 Malarial sign  62 Aforementioned 63 Wagner's earth goddess 66 Clumsy craft  
16 Celtic tongue 17 Fix firmly 18 Gelid, only more so 19 Not fer 20 Combative fowl 22 Like ferns 24 Grandiose  48 Skirt edge 49 Man of morals 51 Pub 53 GWTW locale 55 Soon 56 Third World collectively  DOWN 1 Fiasco 2 Celebes beast 3 Sign up for business 4 OPEC is one 5 Blade for Ali 6 Fierce whale  27 European 28 Eucalyptus lover 29 Host 30 Gymnast Comaneci 32 -Yale  
60 Resting  33 Gluts  
26 Rhyme scheme 27 Closet Item  64 Ripening factor  7-Ericson  36 Inventor Nikola  
31 Fencing blades 34 Sale term  65 Arctic 67 -and tear  8 Grand or light 9 Light for a  38 Cupola 40 In a certain  
letters 35 Capital of Morocco  68 Twofold 69 Huge to poets 70 Parched  discotheque 10 Sponger 11 Therefore  direction 42 Welcoming attitude  


for late night munchies 
<\ . ., 



DARBY'S 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-iiiiiiiiiiiii in the basement of LaFortune 
LOOK INTO 
Garry Trudeau 
Kevin Walsh 
TO: 

RE: Plagiarism It is with heavy heart tha I muGt inform you cf a ve . serious crime ••• 


Gary larson 
''Well, I don't think so, but I'll ask. Hey, Arlene! Anyone turn in a human brain left here yesterday? ... He says it was medium-sized, sort of pinkish." 
45 Horse 58 Meat 47 Pellets 59 Wild plum 50 Urgeon 61 Dynamic 52 Kind of street begin11ing 
Campus 
•12 
p.m. -Kellogg Institute, (Brown Bag), "Learning About Latin America Beyond the Class­room," Joseph Bongiovi, Daniel Maier and Chuck Ruhlin, ND Seniors, Room 131 Decio HalL 

•3:30 
p.m.-Graduate Seminar, "Simulation land Optimization of Step-Growth Polymerization' Re­actors," Prof. Santosh Gupta, Visiting Professor at Notre Dame, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•
3:30 -5 p.m. -SMC Holocaust FUm Series, "The Story of Chaim Rumkowski and the Jews of Lodz," Carroll Hall (SMC), Sponsored by SMC Depart­ment ofModern Languages. 

•5 
-7 p.m. -Senior Formal Registration, LaFortune and LeMans, $56. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.-FUm, "Against All Odds," Engineering Auditorium, All Proceeds Go To MS Campaign. 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Central America and U.S. Policy," James Dunkerley and Alex Wilde, Kellogg Institute, Room 124 CSC, Sponsored by SOLA, Free. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Global Economy and Foreign Relations," LaFortune, Little Theatre, Sponsored by Club oflife. 

•
7:30p.m. -Faculty Seminar, "Bio-medical Ethics -THe Intersecting of Technology and Human Caring," Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C., ND, Center Dining Area ofthe CCE. 

•7:30 
& 9:30p.m. -Tuesday Night FUm Series, "Phanton ofLiberty," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -Freshman Honors Convocation, CCE Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Alan Dugan and Michael Anania, library Auditorium, Sponsored by Sophomore literary Festival. 




TV Tonight 
8:00p.m.  16  The A-Team  
22  Special  ·  The 27th Annual Grammy  
Awards  ·  
28  MacGruder & Loud  
34  Nova  
9:00p.m.  16  Movie-Evergreen  
34  Ascent of Man  
10:00 p.m.  28  Call To Glory  
34  Austin City Umits  
11:00 p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Movie -His Girl Friday  
l1:30p.m.  16  TonightShow  
22  Fall Guy/Columbo  
28  ABC News Nightline  

.. 


'A' League playoffs heat up as top seeds advance 
-

---~ -~~ 
Sgorts 
ND women's basketball team faces critical rematch against Ramblers 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
The stretch run for the North Star Conference championship begins tonight in Chicago as the Notre Dame women's basketball team takes on the Ramblers of Loyola Uni­versity in Alumni Gym at 7:30 CST. 
The two teams met just six days ago in the ACC, when the Irish came out on top, 84-59. Tonight's contest was originally slated for jan. 25, but poor weather conditions prevented Mary DiStanislao's squad from making the trip that afternoon. The resheduling ofthe Loyola contest for tonight puts the Irish in the un­enviable position of having to play three games in a five-day span. 
"Obviously I would have preferred to play this game back on january 25," notes DiStanislao, whose squad stands at I 5-8 this season, "but this was the only altern­ative that we had in the situation. It'll be a grueling week for us, but ifcan pull out this string of games, then we'll be doing pretty well." 
After struggling for most of the first half in the last Loyola game, the Irish eventually made short work of the Ramblers, setting a new team record with 57 points in the second 
ByJERRY MELIA 
Sports Writer 
The men's 'A'Ieague interhall bas­ketball playoffs arc really beginning to heat up. The first two rounds have been played and the loser's bracket has been established. 
In the first round, Grace defeated Aanner while Dillon fell at the hands of St. Ed's. The top two seeds of the tournament, Sorln and Morrissey, one and two respectively, received byes in this round and automatically advan<:ed to the next round ofcom­petition. 
Flanner and Dillon met in th~ first half. Trena Keys led the way for Notre Dame in that contest, scoring 28 points, 23 ofthose in the second half. Mary Beth Schueth added I 7 points and I 5 rebounds, while Sandy Botham contributed I 7 points and I 0 rebounds and Laura Dougherty came of the bench to score I I points. 
Some hot outside shooting by point guard Faith Mimnaugh kept the Ramblers in the game for a while, but Notre Dame ultimately proved too strong inside. Mimnaugh finished with 14 points for Loyola, but the 5-2 senior ended up with just five assists, well short of her nation­leading average of I 1.6 per game. Mimnaugh's backcourt mate, 5-8 junior Kathy Leyden, chipped in with 13 points and five rebounds. 
The Ramblers' centers had q~ar­ginal success against the Irish, as 6-0 junior Sue Busic! netted 14 points and grabbed 13 rebounds and 6-0 junior Maureen McNerney added nine points, but forwards Kathy Meyers and jackie Huszti were in­visible for most of the evening. Meyers hit on just one of five field goal attempts and ended up with just two points in 30 minutes, while Huszti missed all five of her shots 
round of competition in the loser's bracket. Aanner emerged victorious by a score of 48-37. 
Second round action in the win­ner's bracket was highlighted by the top two seeds advancing with nar­row victories. Sorin got by St. Ed's for the second time this season, 44­42. 
"It was a typical Sorin-St. Ed's game -physical and intense," said Sorin captain Pat Collins. 
This was a hard-fought battle throughout. Sorin was down by five at the half, but it eventually pulled the game out by making key free 
... 

" +1t
'"" 
·.·, .;·~t\/ ~~;.. .. 
The ~rver/Vic Guarino 
Belles captain Beth Kreber netted 10 points and grubbed seven rebounds in last Saturday' game· against the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Unfor; unately, the Belles dropped the deci­sion to Michigan-Dearbo 63-53. lowering their season record to 4-15 with only one game left on their 1985 schedule. Kelly Por­tolese describes this weekend's action at right. 
from the floor and fouled out mid­
way through the second halfafter 16 
scoreless minutes. 

Tonight's task may not be as easy for Notre Dame, however, as the Irish will have to deal with the disad­vantage of playing in unfamiliar sur­roundings as well as the fatigue factor of having played DePaul just two days ago. 
"It's a tough week for us," says DiStanislao, "but everybody's really up for it -the players have a lot of · extraenergy. Still, the bench is going to be key for us, particularly against Loyola. We have the advantage in depth over Loyola, as far as experi­ence is concerned. Laura had a good game for us the last time we played them, and we also have experienced players in Ruth (Kaiser) and Denise (Basford). And with Kathy ( Brommeland) and Beth (Morrison), we've got added size coming offthe bench. 
"I expect more of an up-tempo game from them this time," says DiS­tanislao. "Loyola will be more com­fortable in its own gym, and we're expecting better execution from them. We have to play better defense, move better without the ball, and use screens more effec­tively in order to win." 
throws and playing solid defense down the stretch. 
"We put in a much smaller lineup consisting of four guards and a for­ward," said Collins. "-This forced St. Ed's into many turnovers which were eventually converted into bas­kets. This was the key to our com­eback victory." 
In the other second-round contest, Morrissey defeated Grace in another close game, also decided by two points, 47-45. 
"We were worried about this game." said Morrissey captain Steve Treacy, "because we had beaten Grace twice within two weeks. Both of those games were tight and we 
Belles fall to Michigan-Dearborn, 63-53, season record slips to 4-15 
ByKELLY PORTOLESE 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's basketball team 
made the 200-mile trek north to the 
University of Michigan-Dearborn 
Saturday to play its fifth game in 
seven days. The Belles were unable 
to come away victorious, though, 
dropping a 63-53 decision. 
The Belles season record falls to 
4-1 5 with one game remaining on 
their 1985 schedule. Michigan­
Dearborn improved its record to 12· 
8. 

"Michigan-Dearborn was a big team. I was pleased with the way we handled their size and battled it out," said Saint Mary's head coach Marvin Wood. "We' were down but not out. We were behind by I 5 points and could have quit. It's a credit to our players, especially with all the season's losses." 
With one Michigan-Dearborn player grabbing a game-high I 7 rebounds, superior size and rebounding were definitely the keys to the game as the host team raced to an early 9-4 lead. The Belles were unable to gain control in the first 20 minutes of play and found them­selves down by I 2, 38-26, at the half. 
In the second half of action, Saint Mary's never gave up, and eventually closed the gap to 61-53 with a min­ute left on the clock. But Saint Mary's was not getting the breaks Saturday, and the Belles were unable to score again. 
Overall, Saint Mary's hit only 26 percent from the field while con­necting on 13-of-21 attempts from the free throw line. 
Freshman standout Tammye Radke led the Belles with I 7 points, coupled with five assists. Junior cap­
. tain Beth Kreber added I 0 points and pulled down seven rebounds. 'iemor cemer :Jetsy Ebert also grahl." u r'~·-rebounds to aid the Bt:l'· .. u ..f, '''""elv. 
Irish runners fare well 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team had fine individual perfor­mances Saturday at the Indiana TAC State Championships to help tune them up for the IC4A Championships next weekend. 
"This meet was good preparation for the IC4A's for those who qualified," said Irish coach joe Plane. Plane employed variety as he started some runners in events different from what they normally run. 
One ofthose runners wasjohn McNelis who took second place in the 1000-yard run with a time of 2: I I. 5.3. "He did very well in his 
see TRACK page 10 
felt that it might be their turn to win a close one." 
Like Sorin, Morrissey was down by five at halftime. But by the end of the third quarter, it had a two-point advantage which was maintained for the remainder ofthe contest. 
"We are looking forward-to playing Sorin," said Treacy. "They are the number-one seed and will obviously be our biggest challenge ofthe year:I think we match up well and it should be a great game". 
These two teams will clash at 6 
p.m. on Thursday in Gym I. The win­ner will advance to the champion­ship while the loser will play in the finals of the loser's bracket. 

Tuesday, February 26, 1985-page 12 
The ~c:r/VIc Guarino 
junior Trena Keys will be looking for a repeat of last week's Im­pressive performance tonight as the Notre Dame women's basketball team travels to Chicago to take on the Loyola Ramblers. Last Wednesday Keys scored 23 ofher game-high 28 points in the second half to help the Irish pull away to an 84-59 win. Lany Burkepreviews the game at left. 
Second-round play in the loser's bracket continued last night when Grace defeated St. Ed's, 49-45. Grace meets Aanner Thursday night at 7 in Gym I .of the ACC. Meanwhile, St. Ed's will be forced to watch the remainder of the playoffs from the stands. 
Although many games have been played so far, there still is a great deal left to be decided before the cham­pionship is played on March 5. 
In 'B' League action la~t night. Stanford squeaked past Off-Campus 46-45. Stanford advances in the playoffs and its game against Dillon will be announced later this week. 
Wood also cited freshman for­ward Loretta Raycroft for her fine second halfof play. "Loretta came in and played well the last seven minutes ofthe game. She rebounded and played well offensively," he said. 
Last night the Belles had their . work cut out for them as they went for a season-ending victory. They travelled to Grand Rapids, Mich.. to take on Aquinas College, a team which has suffered only one loss this season and is currently ranked in the Top 20 in the country among NAIA schools. 







