-----------------~~ --------~ 
Smirnoff -page 9 

VOL XX, NO. 36 MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1985 

400 against apartheid; 'Divest now,' Des burgh disagrees 

By MARK PANKOWSKI 
Copy Editor 
University President Father Theordore Hesburgh, speaking to approximately 400 ralliers gat· hered in front of the Administra­tion Building friday, said although South Africa "is out ofstep with Ol· her Christian countries," it "would not be an intelligent and moral decision" for Notre Dame to divest in lJ.S. companies doing business there. 
The rally, one of many taking
~ l 

•••r'':, ...,.. ,.. II-. ~I, place on campuses across the country as part of National Anti­
... 
..
• 

Apartheid Protest Day, ended in
'..~. 
{~(': :~ 

controversy when It was an­~~ .."· 
nounced that Student Body Presi­
.,, 

dent Bill Healy had dismissed John Dettling and Pat Baccanari from 
... I 

the Committee for Responsible
~ '\) • 
~· ~·""·'"' I University Business Practices. 
I 

Healy, who had spoken earlier in 
$·I I 
!!! 

the rally, returned to the podium
1br Oblrrver/Hannn H.c.lr:rr 

to explain his decision after direc­
Friday afternoon's 4 o'clock anti-apartheid rally was the back­Below left a sampling oftbose in attendance. These members ofthe 
tor of Notre Dame's African 
drop for these scenes. Above left students bow their beads during Anti-Apartheid Network, flanking University President Father 
Program Peter Walshe called 
the opening invocation offered by Father Ernest Bartell. Above Theodore Hesburgh, represent Bishop Desmond Tutu andpolitical 
Healy's action a "power play."
right Is a candid opinion offered by some residents ofZabm Hall. prisonerof21 years Nelson Mandela, below right. 
Healy, met by boos from the 


Civil rights activist Berry assesses U.S. apartheid response 
ByTIMHEALY ting the black population suddenly a minute. We should be in com­sion were increasing in South Africa goals but mentioned the importance News Staff got very concerned about hurting plicity with evil because others and the policy... of constructive on non-violence. these poor people." might come and do evil.'' She further engagement was . . . leading to 
She also told how someone fromFriday evening at 7 a crowd gat­The real truth is that disinvest­stated, "We should get the mud out greater suffering; more deaths, more the movement goes to the embassy
hered in the library auditorium to ment hurts the government, Berry ofour own eyes.'' stress and strain and making life daily In Washington to let the people
hear U.S. Commissioner on Civil said. The last argument against disin­miserable and that is why we started in South Africa know that people stillRights Mary Frances Berry address "It is better to have the short-term vestment she addressed was the idea the 'Free South African' movement.'' 
are trying to gain their freedom.
the topic "U.S. Response to Apar­pain from the policy of disinvest­that universities have the respon­The movement has focused its "One thing that (has been) ab·
theid: From the Campus to the ment then It is to have the long-term sibility to be prudent investors of demands and has been stalwart solutdy necessary ... is that some­
Congress." suffering which will come if their institutions' money. 
throughout the mission, Berry said. body has gone to the embassy, andHer lecture was the final event In pressure is not applied," she said. 
"We don't want investments and they have gone and knocked on thethe Anti-Apartheid Network's Apar­According to Berry, another Berry pointed out that investing we want a change in the American door, and have said, 'I am here to teUtheid Awareness Week. Berry urged criticism of divestiture has been "if in South Africa isn't even a good in­policy and we want the Constitu­you that I don't like what you arestudents to get involved and stay in­you disinvest then indeed some ot­vestment. "Anyone who believes in 
tional Congress to move toward doing, and I'm here to bear witnessvolved with apartheid activities. "I her country will come and invest." this prudent investor theory...ought 
political freedom." in the cause of justice, and I'm here come here tonight to indicate to you These comments paralled those to be able to figure out by now that if for that purpose,' on that day and 
to do whatever you can do and made by University president Father Chase Manhattan thinks that the She also stated some of the results they've gotten arrested."
whatever you find it possible to do, Theodore Hesburgh at a 4 o'clock loans are too bad to be allowed over of the group's efforts. "People have 
wherever you are on the issue," she rally on the steps of the administra­there, that things are bad. This may made up their minds (to help). Six Berry concluded her lecture by said. tion building. be one of those times where prog­states and the District of Columbia urging Notre Dame students to do Berry advocated divestiture of in­Hesburgh said this was the main matism and appearances of morality have disinvestment laws and more everything possible to promote dis­
vestments in South Africa as the best reason for Notre Dame not divesting coincide." states are passing them every year. investment. way to bring about change and as in South African businesses, claim­Berry said she believes nothing And every day dozens of cities, She told students to remember such addressed severai criticisms of ing Japanese and West German in­would be accomplished unless more churches, and colleges have disin­one thing as they continued to fight divestiture tactic. terests would invest and that they pressure was applied to the South vested, unfortunately they're not apartheid: "Bearing witness in the 
She refuted the argument that care only about "profit and profit African government through the U.S. Notre Dame.'' cause of justice can become a habit .. divestiture was harmful to blacks in alone.'' government. Berry said she is determined in .if you learn (that habit) here, Notre South Afica: "Now all these people Berry countered this argument: She said she realized, "that the her cause and is willing to do anyth­Dame ought to be proud of you rat­
who had never thought about hur-"Even if that's true, think about it for death and the dying and the depres-ing necessary to accomplish her her than scorning you." 


--------------------~------------~-----~­
The Observer Monday, October 14, 1985-page 2 

Of Interest 
All Saint Mary's students interested in 
the MBA Early Entry Program at the University ofChicago can attend an informational meeting today to discuss the program. The meeting will be from 4:30 and 5:15p.m. in 304 Haggar College Center. All interested Saint Mary's students are welcome and liberal arts and science majors are encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
Gripe Night at Saint Mary's will be tomorrow 
from 7 to 9 p.m. Students are encouraged to call the following num­
bers to register any complaints or suggestions about campus issues: 
284-2050, 284-2051, 284-2052, 284-2061, 284-2062, 284-2069. 
Gripe Night is sponsored by Saint Mary's student government. -The 
Observer 
A bus trip to 0 'Hare for fall break is being sponsored by the Student Activities Board. The cost will be 51 0 and buses will leave from the Main Circle on Friday, Oct. 18 at6 p.m. and Saturday, Oct. 19 at 6 p.m. Deadline for deposit and signup is tomorrow at the SAB Record Store. -The Observer 
Professor James Dunkerley, will give a 
presentation tomorrow at noon in the Decio Faculty Hall in Room 
131. His topic is, "Reconsidering the Historiography of the Central American Crisis," and the lecture is open to all.-The Observer 
Eve Reid, fiber artist on the faculty ofWestern Mic­higan University, will be giving a gallery talk in the ISIS Gallery, Riley Hall ofArt and Design today at 3:30. Reid's talk will be inconjunction with her exhibition of handmade paper constructions currently featured in in the ISIS Gallery from Oct. 7-18. -The Observer 
Nicholas Turro, professor of chemistry at Columbia University, will give theReilly Lectures in chemistry at 4:30p.m. today, Wednesday and Friday, in Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. Turro's topics will be "Photochemistry in Microscopic Reactors: From Micelled to Zeolites" (today), "A Quick Look at Reactive Organic Intermediates by Time Resolved l.asar Spectros­copy" (Wednesday), and "Magnetic Isotope and Magnetic Field Ef­fects on Organic Reactions" (Friday). -The Observer 
Do you have questions about Notre Dame and Saint Mary's new cultural and socially concerned organization? Tomorrow, at noon, outside ofLaFortune, RASTA will have a rally to find out what it means to "Rally Against Starvation."-The Observer 
The Notre Dame L-5 society will have a 
meeting at 7:30 tonight in the LaFortune Uttle Theater. A presenta­
tion on "Star War's" space defense will he given.-The Observer 
The Shelterfor the Homeless will be holding 
its final training session at 7 tonight in the Fatima Retreat Center. Volunteers must be trained. All are welcome to attend. -The Obser­ver 


Weather 
The odds are against you today as there is a 60 percent chance of rain with the high in the lower 60s. Mostly cloudy tonight and tomorrow with a 30 percent chance of rain. Lows will be in the middle to upper 40s and highs in the lower 60s. -AP 


The _Obser:ver-
The Obeerver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( 120 per se­mester) by writing The Obeerver, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Aasocbokd Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
DeslgnEdltor .............)ane Anne Riedford 
Design Assistant.................. Ellyn Mastako 
Layout Staff........................... Beth Conway 
Typesetters ..............•....................... Pat Clark 
Bill Highducheck News Edltor................•....•.•.......)ohn Heasly Copy Editor ........................ Margie Kersten Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf VIewpoint Copy Editor....... Cindy Rauck· horst VIewpoint Layout................)ohn Mennell Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy Features Layout................... Eilyn Mastako ND Day Editor........................... Tripp Baltz SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Ad Design ..................•....•....Sarah Wolohan 
Catherine Ramsden Photographer.......................... Paul Cif.trelli Typlst..............................)odi Shellenbarger 


Climbing the basement stairs and other intimidating experiences 
When I was four years old my family lived in a suburb ofCleveland. We lived in a veryold house, the kind with brickfireplaces and stone mantles, milk boxes and base­ments that were cellars, not rec-rooms. My oniy sibling was a one-year-old brother who was doing his best to stand on sausage-like legs; therefore, I took rule of the house, most ofit, anyway. 
Although the majority of my toy box was contained in one room, my Susie Homemaker washing machine, which actually worked, with eight D-cell batteries, was kept in the basement. It had to stand next to Mom's washer, of course. My dolls' clothes seemed to need washing more often than the family's. Consequently I often had to venture into the basement alone. 
This was no light-hearted skip because the steps down to our basement had no backs. I lived in constant fear that I would slip through the steps, either of my own fault or because monsters grabbed my ankles. I knew that once I got to the basement I was safe, but stretching betwe<;n me and my Susie Homemaker were 
a set of 14 steps. I decided This September the Uni­the safest ways to get down versity prohibited kegs on the stairs were either to Green Field. Once again stu­clutch the handrail tightly dent leaders expressed in­and tiptoe to the bottom or dignation, but failed to crawl down the steps back­support their anger with ac­wards, keeping an eye out tion. for monsters. Although these issues 
Two things I did not hover in the air, we cannot realize until I was much hang on to them or the way older and a little wiser were in which they were handled. that it is impossible to fall At this weekend's leadership through the backs of steps conference present students and there are no monsters. were offered the insight of The oniy real danger I risked those who have already was not having enough con-walked down the basement
UH'-1
fidence in myself, which f\1ARK WEII·f/10lT stairs. Some stumbled while 
could cause me to lose my 
balance, or send me falling 
down the steps backwards. 

This past weekend student leaders, both elected and appointed, met with alumni who had served in the same positions as they, and administrators. The group of 60 or so had gathered to gain insight into where the various student organizations had once been to help determine where they can go. Among other topics, people discussed how student leadership can become efficient and genuine. 
The resounding word from the alumni was that stu­dent leaders need to be leaders. Rather than being stu­dents who happened upon leadership positions, they should be leaders who also are students. 
For the past few years, in many organizations, student leaders have been serving in their positions just as I used to walk down my basement stairs. They have been tiptoeing, or worse yet, crawling backwards. Nothing ,:an be accomplished uniess student leaders walk firmly straight ahead. 

Happy Birthday 
DIANE 



McKINLEY 
Love, JA 

Buy Observer birthday ads. 
BANKING••• ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 hr. banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 
Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m.  ~  source  
Join Michiana's 1st Team  ~Bank  
for unsurpa~sed banking service!  Member F.D.I.C.  



Sarah Hamilton 
Editor-in-Chief 
In the past few years there have been many issues around which student leaders have tiptoed. In 1984 the Academic Council announced its new policy that seniors would not be exempt from final exams. Student officials expressed their disappointment about and dis­agreement with the new policy. The issue was dropped. 
Last year candidates for student office were accused ofviolating campaign regulations and subsequently dis­missed by one branch of student government. They were then reinstated by another branch. This definitely 
was a case of tiptoeing in 
circles. 

others skipped. They have 
offered us their 20/20 hindsight. Starting today all of us need to use it to see our way down the stairs. 
The oniy real danger here is when student leaders, who are leaders, lose confidence in themselves and their purposes. No monster can snag the ankles of an organization or leader who will not let it. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpoint page. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The O,bserver editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Observer staff. 

The Observer Monday, October 14, 1985 -page 3 


SMC 'birthday' tomorrow 
By RAE ANN BARGER 
News Staff 
Tomorrow Saint Mary's Col­lege will be 14 I years old and the College's student government has planned more that a half­dozen events to celebrate this birthday. 
Junior Susan O'Dell, student government traditional events commissioner, explained, "the Founder's Day celebration is one day but some ofthe activities will begin earlier." 
The kick-off activity was an es­say contest in which topics dealt with some aspect of Saint Mary's history. 
Three possible topics were an­nounced: "Influence of Saint Mary's past on its present," "Changes at Saint Mary's," and "Some aspects of Saint Mary's have changed but many things remain the same." All papers were due Oct. 9. 
The winner, to be announced 

tomorrow night at the "That's En­
tertainment" program, will 
receive a J';O prize. 
Other new activities added to 

this year·s celebration include a 
guess-the-number-of-M&M's-in-
1•••••••••••-•-•••-•••••-••••••~a~·al~~~~~·~·~s:a~W~~~~~~~ 
. 
....-' 
...... 

..••.. 
..·. 



Gettotheanswers faster. With thell-55-II. 
What you need !() tackle to perform complex calcula­the Tl-55-11 even simpler, 
the higher mathematics of a tions-like definite integrals, and shows you how to use all 
science or engineerin!l cur­linear regression and hyper­
the power of the calculator. nculum are more functions -holies-;{!' the touch of a 
Get to the answers faster. m<Jrc functions than a simple hutton. And it can also he Let a TI-55-11 .Jj~ slide-rule calculator has. programmed to do repetitive show you how. -..:r 
Enter the TI-55-11, with prohlems without re-entering 112 powerful functions. You the entire formula. TEAS can work faster and more Included is the Calculawr 
INSTRUMENTS 
accurately with the Tl-55-11, Decision -Making Sourcebook. 
Creating useful products hecause it's preprogrammed It makes the process of using and services for you. 
the-jar contest. Jars are located in each dorm lounge and the day­student lounge until tomorrow. 
Another new event was the liturgical celebration held yester­day in Holy Cross Chapel with a reception following, O'Dell ex­plained. 
Beginning today, A Walk Through Time Display will be on exhibit in the Cushwa-l..eighton library. "This will be a photographic display which ex­hibits the historical past of Saint Mary's College and the Sisters of the Holy Cross," O'Dell said, ad­ding the exhibit will be on dis­play today and tomorrow. 
A candlelight dinner will be held tomorrow night in SAGA, O'Dell said, but adding, the actual birthday party begins tomorrow night in the parlor of Haggar Col­lege Center at 7:30. It is sponsored by the hall councils and birthday cake will be served. O'Dell explained the change from last year's events, when the birthday party was held in in­dividual dorms. 
At R p.m., continuing until 11, "That's Entertainment," featuring Bob Corrigan on the piano will be presented in the Chameleon Room, O'Dell said. 
Convicted Indiana prisoner to face 

~~·R~~nten~~ej~~!te!l!!~!.t~!l~~ be•• 
StaffReporter 
· 

On Wednesday, shortly after mid­night, Indiana will have its second execution since March of 1981. Convicted murderer William Van-diver will be the 49th execution since the 1976 reinstatement of the 
death penalty. 
Steven Judy, convicted of the murder of his former wife and three children, was executed in March 1981. 
Though Vandiver holds no hope for his life, Coordinator for Justice and Peace Education Sara Webb Phlllips said, "Capitol punishment is denying God's spirit the chance to be in Vandiver's life." 
Phillips, whose office is a branch of the Center for SOcial Concerns, is calling for the Notre Dame and South Bend community to pray for Vandiver and protest his scheduled execution, but no definite plans have been made by the Center at this time. 
Phillips also suggested students write Vandiver "because those on death row don't have any hope ex­cept for what people give them." 
"Killing is no solution to any so-Shores, In., who sponsored an proven that it's cheaper to maintain ecumenical service in March for a convict through life than to go Judy. through the capital punishment 
Dole is an attorney, an Indiana process," Phillips said, adding, "most public defender, and a chaplain at Western nations have already the Indiana State Prison in Michigan abolished capitol punishment." City, In. where Judy was held and "The state is committing a mur-Vandiver is currently held. der," Phillips said. "In light of the 
"I don't see that inflicting the Catholic Church's stance on life, can same kind of violence is a solution. we have a prayer? Where's recon­Capitol punishment reduces the cilation and hope? Allowing the state to the same level as the killer. death penalty means that we don't We shouldn't have such rituals." think there is hope for salvation." 
Citing the 1976 5-4 Supreme She noted that Charles Colson, Court decision to reinstate the death convicted for his involvement in penalty, Dole said, "the decision was Watergate, "gave his life to Christ not aimed as reform for the mur-and started a prison ministry, which derer, but only as retribution against now has the highest rate of the crime committed." rehabilitating prisoners." 
Vandiver, convicted of the 1983 Adding that this is Respect Life slaying of his father-in-law, waived Week, Phillips said, "This is a pro-life his right to appeal this summer. He issue. If we consider babies, the ei­still could appeal up to six hours derly, apartheid, and injustice, we before his execution, Dole said. have no choice but to fight against "The appeal process could at least state execution." prolong his life by years. The Gover-The Indiana Coalition Against the nor should be at his phone." Death Penalty "works to educate 
Vandiver has said he does not people in order to abolish capital 
want to live. punishment," noted Phillips. 
"Vandiver has led an unhappy life The coalition issued a press 
and has a great deal of guilt. He release stating that concerned mem­
doesn't want to live on Death Row bers have named themsevles 
fure~~&~ro~~~~· "~~H~*~~~~qb~u­
sibility that God could change his tion." life. God can still use him ifVandiver Rev. Wanda Callahan of the will just use the appeal system," Church of the Brethren, a member Dole continued. of the coalition said, "We ch~se life 
Since Vandiver is on Death Row, over death and will use all our 
"he is held in a double cell. He gets energies to end state executions. We 
one hour to shower and exercise, hope that Vandiver will not give up 
but otherwise has no activities, in-the life that God gave him. Indiana 
eluding no church services." will not be safer if Vandiver's execu­
"The death penalty has been tion takes place." 
proven ineffective. The six states Callahan told Vandiver, "we don't 
with the lowest number of inmates want to mourn your death, we want 
on Death Row happen to have no you to live." 

ntal Express Restaurant 
Chinese, Vietnamese & American Food 
Dining Room and Carry Out 

632~u~~s~~zmq~ ~~ee'
\ot>'e 

Just West ofUniversity Park Mall "'-.....,o\\ on State Raad 23, Next to Kroger r: 
Mon. & Weds. 1 0 "/.off with dining room coupon only 
The Observer 


UDiversity and college infirmaries confront new difficulty of AIDS 
A88oclated Press 
Already, says Boston University's 
medical director, Dr. Julius Taylor, 
the phone calls from anxious 
parents have started. 
"My son tells me there's a gay per­·SOn living in his dormitory," the typi­
cal call begins. "What are you doing 
to protect him from AIDS?" 
Few colleges and universities have had more than a handful of AIDS cases. School officials across the country, however, are struggling to educate students, faculty and parents about the risks ofthe disease and to come up with at least loose guidelines to deal with questions from parents and students. 
"Most people seem to think that 
a(n AIDS) policy is needed, but they 
also feel we should try to stick with 
non-discrimination," said Dr. Kevin 
Patrick, director of student health 
services at San Diego State Univer­
sity. 
College officials emphasized they 
hope to avoid the emotional uproar 
which accompanied the first casesof 
AIDS in public schools. 
Most said their thinking is being 
guided by the federal Center for 
Disease Control, which has said that 
AIDS is not especially contagious, 
and can only be contracted through 
sexual contact, contaminated in­
travenous needles or receiving 
tainted blood. 
"One of our greatest fears is the sense of panic," said Kaye Howe, vice chancellor for academic affairs ofthe University ofColorado, where one student has died of AIDS. "There's nothing we've seen from the CDC that would make us share that panic." 
Still, the stakes are enormous. 

"What colleges would like to avoid is a 'reputation issue,"' said Dr. Richard Keeling, director ofstudent health services at the University of Virginia. "If, for example, a school seemed to have an overly liberal policy with AIDS victims, then it might attract certain groups and not others as students." 
Campus health officials hope, therefore, that they can present as united a front as possible on dealing with AIDS. 
Keeling chairs a newly formed task force of the American College Health Association, or ACHE, which is working on policy guidelines it hopes will be broadly accepted by colleges and universities. 
School authorities say they are struggling to strike a balance bet­ween the rights and well-being of AIDS victims and the rights of the campus community. Whatever deci­sions are reached, lawsuits are al­
ways a possibility.  
Education,  rather  than  
policymaking,  has  been  the  
dominant  theme of campus  AIDS  
programs so far.  

The University of Pennsylvania has printed and distributed an AIDS information pamphlet, and the Uni­versity of Michigan is preparing a similar publication. San Diego State has put on theatrical productions with AIDS education as the theme, and plans more this fall. San Fran­cisco State will hold a weeklong AIDS conference ·in November that will include a panel of victims. The University ofMaryland has a corps of volunteer student "peer educators" who tell other students the facts about AIDS. 
The University of California at · Berkeley, where two students and a staff member have died ofAIDS, has set up a comprehensive counseling program. 
Boston University, with a relatively large homosexual popula­tion, has gone futther than most in formulating a policy. 
Medical director T,aylor said an AIDS committee is recommending that students who test positive for the AIDS virus, but who have no symptoms, should be allowed to continue normal campus life. 
Those with more advanced cases, including individuals with con­tagious skin lesions, will be asked to withdraw, he said. Faculty with ad­vanced AIDS would be put on sick leave. If they recover, they can return to classes. Ifthey decline fur­ther, they'd be placed on long-term disability. 
Lost dormitory keys warrant fine 
By CHRISTINA DUFFY 
NewsStiJff 
Recent chang~s in residence hall lost-key policies have created con­troversy among students. 
The increased loss of dorm keys has posed a question of security for many hall rectors and rectresses. Some have decided to impose fines for lost keys. 
The University guide to student 
, life, du Lac specifies a •5 charge to replace each key lost, but this applies only to mail and room keys, not D-1 keys or Detexes. Hall rectors and rectresses say this charge is the minimum they must charge. The fine placed on lost keys ranges anywhere from •20-•25. 


Rally 
continuedfrom page 1 
chanted "Divest now" throughout 
the rally, but not during Hesburgh's 
speech. 
Hesburgh, who reminded the 
crowd that the Board of Trustees is 
responsible for the investment 
policy and not himself, said the 
board's Ad Hoc Committee on South 
African Investments is "gradually 
putting together a statement" on the 
policy to be presented to the board's 
meeting in two weeks. 
"Whatever that statement is, it's the beginning and not the end ofthe question," he said. 
Several in the crowd displayed signs with slogans such as "I like apartheid and so does Jerry Falwell" and "Don't hide behind the Sullivan Principles," referring to Notre Dame's present policy of investing in only those companies suscribing to these guidelines on ethical busi­ness practices. 
Hesburgh, who began his speech outlining some of the steps he and officials at other universities have taken to combat apartheid, told the ralliers that "lest you become too virtuous too soon, our country was aftlicted with apartheid for over 250 years." 
"Our apartheid was as bad as South Africa's, and we got rid ofit 21 years ago," Hesburgh said. 
This is intended to increase security consciousness among students. 
Although this policy is new to some dorms, Badin, for example, Zahm's fine policy has been in effect since 1980. 
The fines are the result of deci­sions made by each hall govern­ment. In Badin and Alumni the decision concerning fines was made by the hall staff. Hall staff members from these halls claimed they were losing too many keys a year and the unaccounted keys were a great security risk. 
Sister Marietta Murphy, rector of Badin Hall, said the keys issued to students are a "sacred trust." The fines will cause them to more fully realize the importance oftheir keys, Murphy said. 
In addition to fighting against apartheid, Hesburgh said the Univer­sity and its students should do more to help blacks in the United States and on campus. 
"It does little good to be con­cerned with blacks 9,000 miles away if blacks here on this campus don't feel welcome," he said. 
Hesburgh ended his speech by an­nouncing that the organization In­ternational Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, which Notre Dame alumnus Dr.james Mul­ler helped found in 1980, won this year's Nobel Peace Prize. 
The rally, which was sponsored by the Anti-Apartheid Network and covered by several newspapers and area television stations, began with a speech by Healy. 
Healy, a member ofthe board's ad hoc committee, told ralliers that stu­dent government is "very involved and active" in addressing the issue which "started out by our request­
ing  of the  Board  of Trustees"  a  
meeting  with  the  board's  invest­ 
ment committee.  

This action led to the creation 'of the ad hoc committee, he said. 
Healy added that a referendum is planned to determine student opinion on University divestment. "We need a unified voice on this issue," he said. 
Dettling, who before being dis­missed was chairman of the student government's Committee for Responsible University Business Practices, called for Notre Dame to 
A random survey of dorms with replacement costs found it to be dorm policy to inform students of their key policy at the beginning of the year. Before the policywent into effect, Father George Rozum, rector of Alumni Hall, said he was losing anywhere from 55-70 keys a year. Now it has gone down to about 1 0, he said. 
Where does the extra money col­lected from fines go? Usually it goes back to the dorm. The money col­lected at Zahm has been used for anything from footballs to lamps. At Alumni it has also been used for the hall, but some of the money has also gone to charity. 
The rectors and rectresses main­tain that the fine policy has resulted in less keys being lost and heightened security. 
"send a clear and explicit message to 
U.S. corporations" that it own stock in and operate in South African businesses. 
That message, Dettling said, is Notre Dame "will begin the process of divestment very soon if they can­not persuade the white government to conduct authentic negotiations and begin dismantling apartheid." 
Dettling called on students "to be radicals in the sense that we are all outspoken on issues ofsocial justice 
"Notre Dame should be the most radical university because to be an authentic Christian is the most radi­cal commitment," Dettling said. 
Motumbo Mpanya, who is as­sociated with Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute and is from Zaire, told the crowd that the South African government has "tricks to cut down (students') support." 
"A tribal division will be shown to you to show that blacks cannot rule themselves," Mpanya said. 
Acommunist plot, complete with guns and communist flags, will be found in the country by the South African government, he said. 
"And yet you know in those bushes, if anything, are just starving children ... ," Mpanya said. 
Walshe said Notre Dame "has been practicing a deformed Chris­tianity." 
"South Africans are tired of rhetoric," Walshe said, adding, "Many of us here are tired of Notre Dame's rhetoric." 
Monday, October 14, 1985-page 4 

Tile Obeervcr/Hannes Hacker 

'One ofthese days Norton...' 
Friday night, tbe Class of'87 and the Around the Corner Club hosted "The Best of the '50's with tbe Honeymooners" at the Alumni-Senior Club. 
p$ ADULTCHILDRENOF · 
~e:nd othe~c~~-~!!!?o~~~o~!~~~ proble•• 
MONDAYS 5:45-6:45 pm 
Counseling & Psychological Services Center Room 316 
Does someone significant to you have a drinking problem? Does It affect you? Maybe we can help 
Call239-5085 and ask for Peggy or Micheal 

·Doo o oooooooolrn·otrnoooooooooooooooooooo oo 
c 

EUROPE 
Fall-Winter 
Call for Lowest Rate and Assistance 
Seven Seas Travel 

525 N•.Miclaigan 232-7995 Q_Q 0 0 0 0 0 Q·~ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (J_Q_Q 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 
The Unexamined Life is not Worth Living (~~~~-Stanley/ \lf\C~ H ()~~ :\ ~~ . (JJ~t: ){ Kaplan ocJC~, ) 1:\ Will speak on K (J'i' _;/ "The Role ofStandardized \. N1/ Testing in the O Admissions process" When: W i Tuesday,Oct.15at6:15pm L Where:£ Library Auditorium I D University of Notre Dame \G £I All students and faculty invited. Open to the public.  

~ 
~ 
L_ 

---~-------------~------------------------------------­
The Observer Monday, October 14, 1985 --page 5 
-----------------~
IDO BETTER IN SCHOOL I I 
Ii~~:.~: :.~':' ,STUDY TIPS I 
A • LISTENING ABILITY ()]1[_11 $45 00 EV~~~NG ' o EXAM SCORES -WORKSHOP 
t ' STUDY HABITS OCTOBER 28 E 30 OR 29 ! 31 
• TIME MAIIAGEMENT 

' 7:00 P,M, TO 9:30 P,M, ' • STRESS CONTROL 
. sELF coNF, oENcE YMCA Niles

t_________________J
CoU (616) 424-5169 '"'" '"'''·'""'"' 
~~~~ss~~~ss~~~ss~~~~ 
Attention: Sophomore and Junior 


Accounting Majors 
The Controller's Office ofthe Student Activities Board has openingsfor various positions. Don't miss this great opportunity to do something with your major as wellasfill out your resume. 
Ifyou are interested, call Jack Gallagher at 239-7673 Monday thru Friday between 8:30am -4:15pm 
Interviews will be Oct. U thru 18. CALL NOW/ 
the NATO base Thursday, where the gunmen were taken Into custody. A man accused ofmastermind­ing the hijacking ofthe Achille Lauro, Mohammad Abu el Abbas, disguised as an Egyptian sailor escaped Saturday night to Yugoslavia. 

SBP Healy splits with committee ~embers over alleged 'insinuation' 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
CopyEditor 
Student Body President Bill Healy dismissed john Dettling and Pat Bac­canari from the Committee for Responsible University Business Practices Friday, a week after they had "insinuated that the Chairman (of the Board of Trustees Thomas Carney) was lying," Healy said. 
Both Dettling and Baccanari said they never insinuated Carney was lying at an Oct. 4 breakfast meeting, but oniy were debating him on specific Issues. 
As a result of the dismissals, jerome Pohlen resigned his cabinet position as service concerns com­missioner. In a letter to Healy, Poh­len stated his objection to "student government's obsequious manner of dealing with the administration." 
Although Dettling and Baccanari have been dismissed from their cabinet positions, they said they're still members of the Board of Trus­tees Ad Hoc Committee on South African Investments. 
Both said they will not resign from the board's ad hoc committee, which will present a recommenda­tion on the University's investment policy to the board in two weeks. 
Until Healy can find replace­ments, the dismissals left him the oniy member ofthe student govern­ment committee. 
Healy, Dettling and Baccanarl agreed the entire Incident threatens to divert attention away from campus Anti-apartheid efforts. 
The announcement of the dismis­sals came during Friday afternoon's Anti-apartheid rally and led to a con­frontation between Healy and Det­tling Immediately afterward. 
Surrounded by approximately 30 students, Healy and Dettling ex­changed words, each calling the ot­her's action "a power play," and each taking credit for Initiating the board's action which created the ad hoc committee. 
Healy later said his decision to dis­miss Dettling and Baccanari came as the result of several incidents, the primary one being their "attacking attitude" during the tliree students' meeting with Carney. 
"On three separate occassions they denied the word ofthe Board of Trustees chairman," Healy said. "They didn't handle themselves in a professional manner." 
"Everything the Anti-Apartheid Network was working toward, everything student government was working toward, and everything they were working toward was being destroyed," Healy said. 
Both Dettling and Baccanari said they were not being rude but oniy were questioning Carney on an issue. 
"I was not making insinuations," said Baccanari. 
"I was trying to understand (Carney's) specific point com­pletely. So I rephrased my question several times for my personal clarity," said Baccanari, adding, "I wanted to be certain what (Carney) was saying completely." 
"We never personally attacked anyone," said Dettling, who was chairman of the business practices committee before being dismissed. 
"We just evaluated ideas in an honest fashion." 
"The bottom line Is we are very involved, very sensitive to this Issue," he said. "Why would we ruin It all by being rude? Secondly, why would we be passive and appeasing in such a critical discussion?" 
Dettling said Healy was "bringing up this rudeness issue" because Healy was worried that if he sup­ported Dettling and Baccanari's position on the issue of divestment, he would be opposed to Hesburgh and the board's position. 
Healy thus would be imperiling other proposals he is seeking Hes­burgh and the board's approval on, Dettling said. 
"(Healy) has other agendas that he would not be able to get by if he was protesting against them," said Dettling. 
Healy said the issue was not Det­tling and Baccanarl's views on Uni­versity investments. 
"The problem was not their opinions," Healy said. "I support a lot of their positions. But the way they were going about It was jeopar­dizing those positions." 
Another reason cited by Healy for his decision involved a form the Anti-Apartheid Network had com­pleted to gain official recognition as an organization from Student Ac­tivities. 
The form, according to Healy, stated the Network had received funds from student government. "Student government cannot do that without the senate's approval," Healy said. 
Dettling, an Anti-Apartheid Net­work member, said because he in­terpreted one of his responsibilities as chairman to educate students on the issue, he used money, allocated by the senate, to photocopy fact sheets to distribute to them. 
"I couldn't distribute all of (the fact sheets) so I gave some to the Anti-Apartheid Network to dis­tribute," Dettling said. "But none of them had Anti-Apartheid Network (written) on them." 
john Fitzpatrick, who is as­sociated with the Network, filled out the Student Activities form. 
Fitzpatrick said he had written "unknown" next to a question as­king how much in funds was all­ocated to the Network because the group had benefitted from Dettling's fact sheets. 
This, Fitzpatrick said, was a mistake."( Dettling) was an informa­tional source!' 

"We (The Network) were benefit­ting from his work," Fitzpatrick said. "But we were not benefitting finan­cially from the fact sheets." 
Healy also said a reason for his decision was a report he received from Director of Student Activities jon! Neal. 
Neal's report, unrelated to the apartheid Issue, stated that Dettling "had met with (Neal) and had been extremely rude and unprofessional to her," Healy said. 
Dettling dismissed this incident, saying it is a "trashy thing for (Healy) to bring up." · 
"There was no personal attack, no bad language," Dettling said. "I apologized to joni (Neal) anyway." 
Pohlen stated in his resignation letter to Healy that under the present circumstances, his remain: ing as service concerns commis­sioner would be "a great hypocrisy." 
"The fact that you would discard two such obvious assets to student government at the slightest sign of controversy with the administration speaks poorly ofyour ability to stand up and fight for student needs," Poh­len's letter stated. 
Despite the controversy, Healy said he will continue student government's involvement in the issue. 
"Because of their dismissal we don't want the air to come out ofthe balloon or the fire out of the: fight," he said. 
Intercepted Hijackers 
A U.S. Navy F-14 can-ter-based fighter sits on the runway apron of Stgonella Naval Statton In Stelly In 1980. Without firing a shot, U.S. F-14 fighters forced an Egyptian EgyptAtr 737passenger aircraft, carrying Palestinian htjakers, to land at 






'MN-H~ 
sun tonnrg sam 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka
~...
oo 

BE A GHOST THIS HALLOWEEN! 
Call about our Halloween special 277-7026 
CareerExposure Program 
This Christmas Break: several Notre Dame Alumni Clubs wlllsponsor a Career Break Exposure Program for one week ofthe vacation 
The Career Exposure Program Is Intended for juniors and seniors who have had the necessary prerequisite courses to spend a week working and understanding In their prospective career choice. The number and type of volunteer employment spots open Is dependent upon the availability and willingness of local firms. Therefore, all career options may not be available for the week of volunteer exposure. Finally, It Is Important to realize that these are professional firms participating In a professional enterprise. Each resume Is presented to them and It Is Important that time and effort be put Into presenting the applicant, and the University, In the best manner possible. 
The following clubs have volunteer spots In the designated areas: 
Albany, NY: All fields will be considered. Aurora/Fox Valley,IL: Mechanical Engineering, law, Physics Florida West Coast: Psychology, Social Work, Education Pittsburgh: Accounting, Banklng/Finance,Law, Sports Writer, Social Work La Crosse, WI: Agriculture, law, Business, Government, Communications, Engineering, Architecture Los Angeles: Communications, Engineering, Medicine Law, Real Estate, Banking, Architecture 
Rochester, NY: All fields will be considered. Orange County, CA: All fields will be considered. Tampa Bay: All fields will be considered. 
Ifyou are Interested In the Career Break Exposure Program, please pick up an application and return it completed to the Notre Dame Alumni Association o.ffice at 201 Administration Building. 
Applications are due October 18, 19851n the Alumni Assoc. office 
View~_o_i_n__t_________M_o_nday.._,
.... o_ct-ob-er-14..._,1_9s_s__..pa-ge-6 
Encountering poor forces uncomfortable feeling 
"Oh yeah, Senior Informal was great," we There I saw three little boys on their knees, around and complain, than get up and do other funds such as traveler's. checks and said Monday morning. It was a time to be with whisking away, while a couple men had their something about their current situation. credit cards. I could not help recalling Christ's the people you have gotten close to in the past feet elevated on small wooden crates. The These boys were tapping the small resource words, "When I was hungry you gave me your four years, a time to reminisce, a time to be boys, no older than 1 0, were out at 11 p.m., in that they had to earn something for them­good, when I was homeless you helped me 'frivolous, to drink, to dance, to "see the the cold weather, earning a few dollars by selves. I feel good about that, but at the same find rest, when I was friendless you gave me town." But these are the surface things that shining shoes. Charles Dickens came to my time, I do not like to be the person standing your hand ... when you do this to the least of happened to me this weekend. There is some­mind, and for a few minutes, I felt like I was above them, giving them money to shine my my brothers, you did this to me ...." When I thing greater that happened, something that is living in a story book. shoes. I guess some would call me a socialist, was asked for money, I did not really believe difficult to explain. but I want those boys to have the same that it was needed. Ididn't have proofthat this 
I have to admit, being in the frivolous state benefits and opportunities as I do. If asked to man would have spent the money on food for 
Jeanne Grammens of mind that we were in, my friends and I put my money where my mouth is, I hope that his brothers and sisters. Not only did I want to started to encourage each other to participate I would lower my material wealth for this aim. avoid being taken for a fool, but I felt awkward in the tale. "C'mon, we're on vacation." My I think that is what Christ was trying to tell us. and guilty about having more than this man. It 
ask not friends were very friendly to the youngsters, Realistically, we all learned in economics, that had something to do with human dignity. and we all went away laughing. But as I was the world does not work this way. Wealth is I guess the point of this column is to ver­
The streets of Chicago were busy Saturday entering the bar, I looked back, and I felt a the product ofcapitalism, and capitalism is the balize a question. What are we supposed to do morning. As I walked the streets, and into the strange sense ofremorse. By participating, did result of individual incentives and competi­with the needy, especially when they ask for stores, I felt like the overwhelmed, small-town we help or hurt the boys. For all I know, they tion. Consequently, some have and some have our help? Are we supposed to give them fish, girl that I am. Every store was filled with vast could have been hustlers, making good not. or teach them to fish? People can be taught to quantities of goods: clothing, jewelry, money off of people that can afford to throw The next day, my friends and I were eating fish, in a long-term situation, but what about in makeup, furniture, lamps, toys and food. Every money around. But, deep down, something breakfast at McDonald's. We were sitting encounters that last only seconds? What is the item came in at least six ditferent styles and about the incident bothers me. I know that I there stuffing danish and french fries into our proper Christian thing to do, encourage every style in six ditferent colors and every would not want my brothers out in the big mouths when a man came up to us. We were people to learn how to fish, or solve their im­color in at least three shades. Yes, the wealthy city at that hour. Children belong in a warm the only ones in the store, so it was obvious he mediate hunger by giving them fish? Were we 
r material goods bursting out of the stores in bed at night. I also felt guilty that I was spend­was talking to us. He said, "Could you give me helping or hurting those boys by getting our
r 
Chicago were incredible. With all the quanity ing money so easily while these little boys some money to buy my brothers and sisters shoes shined? Would we have helped, or hurt and selection, how could anyone ever feel were working so hard for a couple of bucks. some food?" My friends were silent. Then we that man if we gave him money in McDonald's. that they had enough? There was always more, The more I thought about the situation, the started to mumble that we only had enough to When we graduate, and get jobs in big cities, and quite frankly, I enjoyed absorbing it all. less I knew how to deal with it. take the train to South Bend. The man sort of this will be a situation that we encounter 
That evening, I was to witness something On the flip side of the coin, I say "Bravo" to sauntered away. sOmeone said, "He had on every day. Instead ofbecoming immune to it, I that would make this world of over­these young men, for doing something about really nice jeans." We all said we felt bad, but want to face it. My limited knowledge of the indulgence just a little bit uncomfortable. My their circumstances. My friend asked one of we didn't know what to do. Bible gives me conflicting answers to actions friends and I had left "Second City" where we the boys what they did with the money they we should take in dealing with poverty in our had spent a lot of money on fancy drinks. We earned, and he said "I save it." It may be naive As we walked down the street, we started to midst. I welcome any insights; I don't know if kept telling each other, "We're on vacation." of me to believe this, but part of me wants to. talk about it. We were sort of justifying our there are any answers. As we were walking towards a bar on Rush These boys are not sitting at home, with achip actions. We really did only have enough to get street, I heard the call, "shoe shine, get your on their shoulders, complaining about their back to South Bend, but that was only because jeanne Grammens in a senior government shoe shine here." Being the curious person lot in life. My father tells me that there are we had spent our money so easily on drinks, and communications major at Saint Mary's that I am, I stopped to see what was going on. many people out there who would rather sit clothes and shoe shines. We did have access to and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Church leaves us freedom to state own positions 
Cardinals Bernardin and O'Connor came to Church wants it to be quite clear that he does teaching authority be acknowledged with By so promoting their position, they claim Notre Dame several weeks ago to speak on not speak for the Church. respect, and sincere assent be given to deci­they have greater teaching authority than the Catholic social teaching, as seen in light ofthe Between these two extremes are issues like sions made by him, conformably with his Church itself. bishops' recent pastoral letters on war and the birth control, abortion, war and the economy. manifest mind and intention, which is made Second, this teaching of the Church's is not economy. A crucial distinction exists between the two known principally either by the character of a condemnation of those who fail to live up to 
former issues and the latter two. In the latter the documents in question, or by the fre­the ideal. The Church's arms remain wide 
Steve Safranek cases (the bishops' letter on the war and on quency with which a certain doctrine is open to those who fail and truly are sorry for the economy), only the American bishops are proposed." such failure, and who are trying to correct speaking. But what they do say;· with regard to their faults. 
a view from the limb faith and morals, is to be given great It is important to note that the Church re­Ultimately, the Church does leave people deference. quires not only that we assent with our intel­free to practice their own beliefs. And persons When the question and answer period of lect, but that we struggle to bring that belief are free to dissent. But here in an academic Thus, at crucial points in those letters, the
the afternoon had arrived, however, all of the into effect by our action. Furthermore, assent ~nvironment we should all be forced to bishops point to basic moral principles, i.e.
panelists' questions turned to the question of must be given to the Church's teaching on this recognize the Church's teaching as it is. that the dignity of every person must be
Church authority. This seemed strange in the matter because both abortion and artificial context in which the talk was ostensibly defended, the innocent cannot be killed, etc. means of contraception have been Just as we would not pervert Aristotle to say
con­framed -but because of the recent question­The degree of deference which Catholics demned so strongly by not only this pope, but he was a Christian, we should not pervert the must give to these letters increases in direct Church's position in order to accommodate it
ing of the Church's authority by religious, by the Church throughout the ages. 
academics, and lay persons, the turn in the proportion to the letters' restatement oftradi­to what we feel is right. Just as we can say Aris­tional Catholic principles and in proportion to Two other aspects of the necessity of our totle is limited, we can say that the Church is
focus ofthe talk was understandable. their unity with moral principles articulated assent in these areas must be considered. First, limited. The Church leaves us free to do so. Freedom to dissent from the Church's by the Pope himself. the idea of freedom of conscience should be teaching is clear in some areas but often ap­acknowledged. Those who disagree with the Perhaps this is because the Church is pears vague in other areas. Certainly, if the The Church's position on abortion and Church in these matters have an absolute guided by the primeval event where Lucifer Pope were to come out and say the Toronto birth control is ditferent from its position on right to do so. But, like those who disagree chose to reject God. The most intelligent ofall 
Bluejays were going to win the World Series, war and on the economy. In the former areas, with the Church on whether or not stealingor God's creation, blinded by its own pride, his statement would have no binding power the Pope has spoken out loudly and inces­taking the Lord's name in vain is morally right, power, intelligence and glory chose to reject on the faithful. santly. In each instance, he has condemned they are not doing so with the Church's ap­Him. 
both acts. proval. 
But still, the message of Christ, like that of
On the other side of the spectrum, few the Church's, beckons with its simplicity tobelieve Catholics can dissent from central The Church has expressed the degree of The Church merely realizes it cannot those of good heart. The Church opens wide
teachings of the Church like those contained deference such statements must be given in coerce someone into believing what he does its arms like Christ did on the cross saying,in the Creed. Those who do dispute such areas Lumen Gentium (it's out of Vatican II, folks) not believe. Those who do dissent from the choose life, reject sin and death, and come and 
are properly relegated to a position outside stating: "Loyal submission ofthe will and intel­Church, however, should not attempt to follow me. the Church, i.e. they clearly are labelled as lect must be given, in a special way, to the aut­promote their understanding of these issues those who do not speak for the Church. 
hentic teaching authority of the Roman as the Church's teaching. If they love and Hans Kung is a recent example. He still has Pontitf, even when he does not speak ex cat­
respect the Church, they should be silent so as Steve Safranek is a second-year law stu­
tile right to preach his own message, but the hedra in such wise, indeed, that his supreme not to lead others into this sin. 
Doonesbury 
00 YOU CAR&? OR. OAN
IT's THR/Z. O'aiXKIN 

A5H&R 00e5, ANOA5 THe
7H& MOfi!NIN6, ANO 00 

BABYBOOM'S FJ05Well.,, H&'5
YOU KNOIAJ P.JHeR& TH& 

BACK. 7DG/V/3 U5 7H&
01/WR&N OF lH& 5/X­

LATE5T ON &VERYONe'5
T1&5AR&? 

FAVORJTE3 6tN/3RATION!
/::? / 
Garry Trudeau 

OOC. WHAT'Re THe YOU GOT eVER-TReN00/0 IT,OUOf3. !J(X}MERSUP70 Ff0351NG 
TH&5C OAY.S~ P.JH/1J5 157DTAUY 
ON lH&IR MINOS? fKJT. 
I
I 

dent and a regular Viewpoint columnist 
Quote of the day 
"Our Lord gave me a favorable wind, land ap­peared to us, and we gave many thanks to Our Lord." 
Christopher Columbus 
(1449?-1506) Oct. 12, 1492 

"ie~F~O~i~n_t~------------------------------------------M--on_d_a~y~,o_c_t_o_be_r_I_4~,~19_8~5--~p~ag~e--7 



Some view the need for birth control irrationally 
l11c question ofcontraception has become a very great matter ofdispute within and wit­hout the confines of the Church. It appears In the pages of our national newspapers. It is debated among individuals over lunch and dinner. Opponents in the debate receive com­munion together. 
john P. O'Callaghan 
guest column 
It Is my purpose to describe my reaction to 
a particular aspect of this discussion. First, 
however, I must make a few preliminary 
remarks. 
I would like to begin by pointing out I 
wholeheartedly support the Church's teach­
ing on birth control. I think It does a much 
better job of taking into account our natures 
as Images of God, and our supernatural des­
tiny, In a way that the proponents of con­
traception do not. 
It often seems most ofthe advocates ofbirth 
control believe we arc neither images ofGod, 
nor have a destiny that reaches beyond this 
time and this place. But mine job is not to 
judge, nor to question why. 
There certainly are men and women I 
respect very much for the well thought out 
arguments they express when advocating 
birth control. I think they are wrong, but they 
arc at least rational in their arguments. On the 
other hand, there arc those who, fearing 
Some of them will claim priests know not­hing about human sexuality because they are celibate. Others will claim the Pope is a sexist, a misogynist, or that he believes women put more emphasis on their emotions than their intellects when making decisions. 
This last type of person doesn't seem to recognize that he or she often betrays an at­titude toward women that neither demonstrates a particularly exalted under­standing of human sexuality, nor provides women, or men for that matter, with such a noble guide as their emotions. 
For them, we arc the slaves of our sexual urges -the ups and downs, ifyou will, of our genitals. 
When I hear or read the remarks made by these individuals, I undergo a strange metamorphosis. My hair stands on end, my eyes bug out, my ears heat up, and I fall into a dream filled with swoon. I have found the only way I can return to my sedate self is to run to the nearest bathroom and give myself a swir­lcy. The whirling vortex re-establishes some semblance of the constancy of reality to the quagmire ofmy mind. 
The conception of humanity I described above and which is espoused by these un­reasonable people has been made apparent to me in the dream I have during my pre-swirley swoon. Somewhere in Greece is the mythical 
belong to a religion called the Phallus Cat­
holic Church. 

In my dream the bells ofthe oracle begin to chime, BING BOING BONG BANG. The people immediately drop whatever they are doing and head for the oracle. As they come running to the steps ofthe temple, they begin to chant, "PHALLUS, PHALLUS, PHALLUS." They line up in front of a temple priest who raises a vial above them with the words, "This is the body of the Lord." 
The people chant back, "My kingdom come, my will be done; Lord I am worthy to receive you, just say the word and I shall be sterile." Each of them then receives a pill on his or her tongue ·from the priest. They proceed to take sword in hand, enter the temple gates, and sacrifice willy-nilly the nearest vestal virgin, as a dwarf expertly plucks out Sheena Easton's "Sugar Walls" on a golden lyre. 
There is, however, a strange cult in the land 
a group of oddballs, freaks, papist medievalists, scholastics, sexually­maladjusted and Insecure degenerates. They are characterized by the bizarre beliefthat the oracle is most powerful when its arbitrary eructations are controlled by their wills and referred to at their discretion. 
Oddly enough, these social misfits find more pleasure in courting the vestal virgins than in sacrificing them. Having finished their daily work, they go to the oracle and enjoy the wit, charm, beauty and innocence of the view becomes cloudy, and the weave of my imagination begins to fray. 
One day, two among their company, a man and woman, climb the steps ofthe temple car­rying a bottle ofwine and a loafofbread. They enter slowly, hand In hand. The scene becomes increasingly opaque, but it seems some sort of sacrifice takes place. The man, however, does not appear to sacrifice the woman, nor the woman the man. Here my vi­sion is blinded and I fail to see anything else within the temple walls. 
When they return, they are the same, yet mysteriously different. They still can be recognized, but their f.lces now resemble the face ofaJewish man I saw painting many years ago. In the painting the man is standing next to a woman .and a bunch of water jars. This resemblance continues to mystify me in my conscious reflections on dream. 
This cult is considered very dangerous by the rest of the community. The people are very concerned, for they know that, unless the fevered cries of Phallus are relieved, the city walls will fall down, the crops will fail, the water will go bad, people will go blind, they will get acne, hair will grow on the palms of their hands, and unwanted pregnancies will abound in the land. So they are considering enacting a law that would mandate compul­sory sterilization of the members ofthe cult. 
Typically this is where the dream ends. I awake, my head dripping with water, confi­dent ofmy existence-at least for a little while, 
,I 
, 
1 
,1 
, 
rea.o;onablc argument and debate, continually city-state ofPhallus. It is named for the ancient people they find playing games and singing anyway. fall Into non-sequiturs, ad hominem fallacies, oracle of Phallus that stands just outside the songs in the temple gardens. and usually proceed by insulting priests, the dty gates. The men and women of Phallus What follows is simply speculation because john P. O'Callaghan Is a graduate student Church and the Pope. have a very great devotion to the oracle, and ' ofthe limitations ofmy understanding, for the at Notre Dame. 

Software piracy does more harm than perceived 
Aserious problem plagues the University of Programmers have the right to sell the results to use the sofrware. Ofcourse, any photocopy a "bit copier." These programs were not Notre Dame, one that affects every person of their efforts, ami copying those results, the machine will alleviate that problem. developed, however, for use in software who uses a computer. The problem is software, in effect is equivalent to stealing a But the disadvantages go far beyond a mere piracy. Software licenses allow for owners of software piracy -the illegal copying of com­sale from the programmer. lack of manuals. Most software companies In­software programs to make a backup copy of puter software. United States copyright laws clude registration cards in their packages. By their program in the event that the original is 
The reason most often given for copying
prohibit the duplication of any copyrighted registering oneselfas an owner, one is entitled lost or damaged. These programs allow
software is that software is too expensive. This 
material. and computer software is included to information from the company regarding owners to copy their software for archival
is not a valid justification, however. High
In that category. updates and new products. purposes only. In filet, most copy programs In­
prices are never an excuse for theft, and this There arc still more disadvantages to clude a message stating this.
theft just leads to further increases in software
William Wilson copying software. Many computer stores and Looking at the entire picture, it becomes
prices. 

software manufacturers offer software sup­evident one is better off in the long run Each year the software industry loses mil­port to their customers. These stores and purchasing a software package rather thanguest column lions of dollars to software pirates. These companies, however, will not assist cus­copying it. One receives working software software companies need to make up for these tomers with problems related to pirated (there seem to be many problems related to 
Software piracy runs rampant across the losses, and thus they have no choice but to sofrware. Also, the Computing Center will not copied software), full documentation about t•ntire nation, and the University is not charge higher prices for their software allow pirated software to be used on their its usage, and support from dealers and immune to this problem. Students and faculty packages. So while users copy software to computers nor will they knowingly permit manufacturers. In addition, purchasing the members freely copy software from their avoid high prices, in reality they bring higher their computers to be used for activities software helps keep already high software peers and there have been instances where prices upon themselves. Copying related to software piracy. like many com­prices from becoming higher, and everyone students have gone to the Computing Center software appears to be an easy way for people puter stores, the Computing Center's consul­benefits from that. 
to copy software for course use. stating that to get the software they need. But there are tants will not assist people who come in with their professors have told them to do so. certain disadvantages to copying software. problems related to pirated software. William Wilson Is a sophomore In the Arts In addition to being illegal, software piracy "111e first is that those with copied sofrware do Copying sofrware is done by using a and Letters program at Notre Dame and a is also unethkal because it amounts to theft. not have access to manuals that explain how software copying program, sometimes called regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Economic pressure needed to influence Campbell's 
CIA. GRE. ACC. IRS. ROTC. LSAT. And now Because ofall of these factors, the average life quently, they live in pathetic conditions. tunately, Vlasic pickles and Pepperidge Farm FLOC, the latest acronym to hit Notre Dame. expectancy is an intolerably low statistic, 49. The farmers also are backed into a corner. cookies arc on the boycotted list, too. Sorry. It stands for the Farm Labor Organizing Com­Think about it. It happens in Indiana and In some cases, the farmers cannot receive the But economic pressure is the catalyst mittee, whose goal is to improve the quality of neighboring Midwestern states. You probably bank loans they need In order to plant without needed to bring Campbell's to the negotiating life ofthe Midwestern farm worker. It is one of wiU ride by these farms on your way home for a contract from a processor. With prearranged table. And until such negotiations occur, not­the few tangible issues around today folks, so October break. prices and such an economic dependence on hing will change. Ifyou think about it, bouil­please read on. FLOC wants to improve the quality oflife by Campbell's, they are hardly the ones who can lon cubes are a small price to pay to get a 
improving the quality of working conditions. correct the injustice done to the farm workers. five-year-old out of the fields. 
SueYadlon To accomplish that, the farm workers need But Campbell's, who made over S200 mil­better wages. That requires negotiation bet­lion profit selling "good food" to us last year, Sue Yadlon Is a senior English major at ween the workers, the farmers, and the can well afford to pay the farm workers mini­Notre Dame. 
guest column processors. mum wages for back-breaking work. 
In one case, the processor is the all­In 1978, under ·the leadership of FLOC 
Basically, farm workers live in Third World American company-that bastion ofgreat soup president Baldemar Velasquez, approximately conditions. Their living environments itself -Campbell's. But Campbell's refuses to 3,000 farm workers walked off farms con­resemble slums; their water is usually dirty or cooperate. The company claims that since it tracted to Campbell's. To apply economic contaminated by pesticides. And pesticide ex­does not hire the farm workers directly, it is pressure, they also instituted a boycott of all posure never has been particularly good for not a necessary presence at negotiations. Campbell's products in 1979. The boycott has 
your health, especially if you are pregnant. FLOC disagrees. And so does the State achieved some success, and Campbell's has 
Among farm workers, infant mortality rates Senate of Ohio. In two investigations done in felt the pressure. In addition, several impor­are 2'5 percent higher than the national 1981 and 1982, the Senate ruled that since tant groups have endorsed FLOC's boycott. average, and their children are 10 times more processors exercise such control over the in­Ceasar Chavez and the United Farm Workers likely to experience malnutrition. Excessive dustry, they are a necessary ingredient, so to support it, and so do the Catholic bishops of child labor is common. speak, of any negotiations. But still no Ohio. 
A documentary done by the British Broad­Campbell's. In 1983, even Notre Dame voted to boycott casting Company found that 40 percent ofthe Campbell's exerts an undeniably strong in­Campbell's products in their dining halls. labor on a farm is done by children under 16. tl.uence on the industry. It determines the And here is where you fit in. The vote Eighty percent of the children do not finish crop planted, provides the seed, and sets the comes up for renewal In the student referen­high school simply because it is an economic price of the crop before planting. Based on dum this year. I urge you to vote in favor of Imperative for them to work beside their that price, the migrant farm workers, (who such a boycott. parents in the fields. incidently, are American citizens, not illegal Secondly, ifyou live off campus, and many 
Ifall this is not bad enough, farm work is the aliens), are hired. The farm workers usually of you do, do not buy Campbell's. Buy Heinz, third most dangerous industry in the nation. receive subminimum wages and conse-or Upton's, or even bouillon cubes. Unfor-
The Viewpoint Department 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame,IN 
46556 

----~~~--~--. 
"ie~P-~O~i~n~t~--------------------------------------------M_o_n_d_ay_,_o_c_to_b_e_r_I_4,_I_9_~_s___P_ag_e__s 


Slashing size, budget would help ND government 
The government, commented a United For years, it has been noted student govern­the issue define his role, instead of the other Throughout their young lives students have States congressman, is a lot like Tip O'Neill · ment spends much of its time trying to con­way around. He has reacted, not acted. Fur­been active in the world around· them. Ac· big, fat and out ofcontrol. vert the Lafortune Student Center into the ther, he usually battles without his greatest tivities nights are full of eager minds wanting 
While the congressman's remark was cer· White House. It is not, just as The Observer is weapon, student support. He has tried to do so to work. The problem is student government tainly a shot below the belt, it humorously not The Washington Post. much with so little that his accomplishments has not been able to channel that desire and summarizes an increasingly popular view Yet, the philosophy ofstudent government are few. effort into action. Therefore, student leaders about the size and purpose ofgovernment. and the federal government is the same. Both The president must use the home court have mistaken ineffective organization of the 
Notre Dame lacks leaders of O'Neill's seek a notion of justice, of liberty and of the advantage and play the game in front of the masses for apathy. It is not. 
r 
r weight class; however, the congressman's common good. The means to that end for student body. Certainly, there are few issues which stir r ·philosophy ofgovernment does indeed apply. Notre Dame students will not be realized by If a problem exists, tell the students. If the the masses; however, student government r What Notre Dame needs is less student emulating the formalized structures of the administration or some other group will not must not concentrate so much on looking at r government, realistic goals and constructive federal government. Passing the buck to com· discuss an issue with the student body presi· global issues when there are so many little im· r action · in a word, leadership. mittees will not resolve anything. The further dent, then he should at least tell the students prov<;_ments which could be made. The bigr an issue is from the top level ofstudent leader· that much. The leader must go directly, not causes may make the headlines, but the small r Joe Murphy ship the less devoted l!-nd less knowledgeable indirectly, into the halls. He must rally the stu­ones will make Notre Dame a better place and
r 
the members addressing the issue. It is not like dents to his support. are the ones on which government can win a congressional or presidential committee on Ifthe presidency is made stronger, then the easy victories. Once it has its plays down, then 
so it goes 
a federal level. Student government's president must be made more accountable to it can go for the touchdowns. structure should reflect the need for central, his fellow students. At the Student Leadership Conference held 
The answer to student government's many singular leadership. So many student presidents are elected and this past weekend and attended by student problems will not be found by forming more How, then, can student government then proceed to fail as leaders primarily be· leaders, key Notre Dame administrators, stu· committees or allocating more money. become just that · a government with stu· cause no one is willing to follow them. Their dents and concerned alumni, many in· 
The answer rests in the hands of govern· dents? Notice the key word is "with," not peers do not consider these officials as dividuals offered their visions of what ment's leaders. What student government "for." Every student is a part of the campus representing student interests. constitutes effective leadership. becomes is what these leaders make ofit. government. When government looks bad, Student leaders must be committed, com· The vision I put forth today is one in which 
This does not imply the present student students look worse. After all, they es­passionate, and capable students, not student government places quality before government is responsible for having created tablished, elected and are responsible for the politicians. If necessary, they must quit quantity, efficiency before economics.
r 
a bad situation. The cracks in the foundation government. shaking hands and start twisting arms. Strength must replace size. Creativity must 
r ~ 
were there long before the current leaders How do students change the current state An automatic confidence vote by the stu· replace cash. Less can and will mean more. stepped into their offices. The crumbling did ofaffairs? dent body halfway through the president's The conference marked the beginning of a
r 
not begin overnight and it will not stop over· Students must eliminate the overlapping term of office will force the leader to remain true historical perspective of who we are, 
night. What is required is patience, per­bureaucracy. If they are going to blame the true to student concerns, and not self-interest. where we have been and where we are~ severance and, most ofall, a purpose. student body president for all of student Such a referendum will keep the president's headed. It will serve as a building block for our, Some would argue student government is a government's ills, then he must have the mind off his resume. future. r puzzle with missing pieces. I say student power to prescribe the cures. The greatest myth about student govern· In short, leadership will emerge from the r government is a puzzle with too many pieces. The student body president should wage ment usually given by student government rubble when all of Notre Dame picks up the r The leaders have become victims of their war or make peace treaties one at a time. With leaders places student apathy at the core of stones of past failures and builds a new 
r 
r 
own bureaucracy. The institution runs them; the force of one voice, he must select one government's problems. Student leaders foundation of understanding on the purpose they do not run the institution. issue which he can set as his goal and act upon claim, with seemingly good reason, that they ofstudent government. Many, here, have fallen into the trap ofcom· it himself. He has to be selective in setting his cannot get anything done because no one joe Murphy is a juniorgovernmentand in­paring the structure ofstudent government to priorities. cares. Deeper analysis reveals students at ternational relations major and the View­
the structure of the U.S. government. In the past, the president has, too often, let Notre Dame do not suffer from apathy. point editor at The Observer. 




P.O.BoxQ 
But why should you listen to me, someone were revoked. He jokes about the cancelled
Raunchy record lyrics Two embarrassments 
you don't even know? "Brethren, whatever is dance, demeaning the women of both Saint true, whatever is worthy of reverence and is Mary's and Notre Dame. These comments are

never protected by law happened in Michigan 
honorable and seemly, whatever is just, in poor taste and reempahsize the immature whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, level ofthe letter. DearEditor: whatever is kind and winsome and gracious, if Sullivan states sarcastically, "Fortunately, I DearEditor: 
This in response to a letter about warning there is any virtue and excellence, if there is attend Ncitre Dame, where justice is swift and The Dillon "Tailgater" was not the only em­labels on records. I am alarmed by the misin· anything worthy of praise, think on and take sure." Sullivan does not realize how fortunate barrassment to the University in Ann Arbor on formation that inspired it. account of these things · fix your minds on he is. Well, Sullivan, speaking as two that Saturday. 
In the name offree expression, the authors them" (Phil. 4:8). "ambitious, worldly Notre Dame women" our Tim Condon defend the raunchy lyrics ofsome rock bands ELizabeth Spinelli advice to you is simple: Grow up. Tom Murphy (I read the term "musicians" · if they were Notre Dame alumna Theresa O'Friel BrianRady worthy of the term, they would not resort to KimRoerig john Brisson the shock value of decadent lyrics). But Sullivan's comments Farley Hall Morrissey Hall obscenity never has been protected by con­stitutional amendment in America.Never. It is 

show lack of maturity 
proliferated because the law is inadequately DearEditor: 

~ 
enforced. In a recent letter, Dean Sullivan of Dillon By the logic in the letter, it would seem we Hall attempted to defend the actions of a should expose kids to all types ofatrocities in group of Dillon residents at the University of the name of "preparation for the real world." Michigan football game. From the outset ofr Perhaps forced sodomy in a state penitentiary Sullivan's letter, his view is tasteless and
, 
or an abortion in progress would be suitable juvenile. Sentences like "my conscience has 

r 
~ 
segments in "Real World Field Trips for Kids." been all over me, worse than when I pulled For more firsthand experience, one could that Tylenol thing awhile back," displayed Sul· allow someone to kidnap and abuse his own livan's infantile sense of humor. He also
r 
kids. The moral could be, "Kids, not everyone thought it amusing to speak sarcastically of

r 
lives in the suburbs with mommies and the damage done to the Grotto in the recent

r 
daddies who treat them nicely. Be prepared." fire. These and other attempts at humor failed

r 
r Since all these horrible things are part of miserably. r reality in America, we would do the kids a We do not object to Dillon's tailgater. We r great service. We'd also raise a generation of do object to one event in particular: the sin· r warped, frightened individuals. ging of that "wretched little ditty" (Sullivan's r The lyrics are not merely acknowledging words) known .as the Dillon Fight Song. For r the existence of rape, incest, violence and those of you who have never heard the song,
r 
suicide in our society, let alone lam:"nting you are lucky. It is degrading and offensive. It 

r 
them; they are glorifying them. angers us to think this was the way Notre

r 
The letter said Maura Mandyck's attitude Dame was represented at Ann Arbor. Further, 

r 
(in favoring oflabeling) makes the signers ofit Sullivan will not admit he and his friends were sad. I say it is sad that the garbage peddled by wrong in any way. this segment of the recording industry has an We realize not all Dillon Hall is implicated audience, and that the audience is comprised in the events at Ann Arbor. Sullivan must of young minds who are paying for the realize this also, yet he shows no concern for records. the fact that the privileges of the entire dorm 

Editorial Board Operations Board 

~~~Ihe--0-b~se~~er-­
~ -.L-::::.YJ --­

Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager.. ~ ... Dav1d Stephenltch
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ......... Wilham J. H1ghducheck News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager.. ..J1m Hagan
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Umversity of 

News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager... . .......... Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the 

SIJjnt Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager .. ~ John A. Mennell 
administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­

Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­

Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
taries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy 
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 

Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Lipo Founded November 3, 1966 




Accent 
Monday, October 14, 1985 -page 9 
Smirnoff treats Notre Dame to a shot of humor 
our two countries is still not as it 
should be." Smirnolfseemed to be very 
Vadim Zabludovski 
features writer 

politically aware. He mentioned n Friday night at Stepan shake and a smile. He was first to that he would like to make some Center, Notre Dame was open the conversation with a sort ofa "Peace contribution," 
treated to a shot ofSmirnoff. And curious question about my place ot because he bcleives "being an en­came away intoxicated with origin. tertainer I can reach a large variety laughter. "Where arc you from? You speak ofpeople." The fun consisted of Russian Russian very well." I explained to 
Above all, Smirnolfsaid, he is a 
comedian Yakov Smirnoff, mainly him where I was originally from. 
performer, a comedian. He writes
poking fun at the Soviet way oflife Smirnoffstarted to laugh, and as it 
all ofhis own material, and just
and relating his funny experiences turned out, we were from the same 
wants to be funny. Is there a 
as a newly-arrived American im­town, Odessa. And his best friend 
message in his humor? "No, no 
migrant. lived on the same street as I did. 
message at all. People will take out
Smirnoff began by relating how This quickly broke the ice, and 
whatever they consider to be im­
dillkult it was to get out of Russia. Smirnoff opened up to my ques­
portant or funny to them. I am not
"You apply tiJr a visa, and they give tions. 
looking to preach."
you a Mastercard," he said. "In Smirnoff also worked as a com­Russia, they don't have American edian when he was in the Soviet Smirnolfsaid the American and Express, they have Russian express -Union, traveling around Russia with Russian senses of humor are very 'Don'tleavc home.'" different bands and variety acts. He similar except that "Americans are 
When his plane arrived in worked the cruise ship circuit on freer to laugh at anything. America eight years ago. Smirnoff Americans are just more relaxed so said the first thing he saw was a they laugh better, but the humor is vodka billboard that read, "America ''In Russia, they the same." loves Smirnoff.'' He looked at it and The comedian said his humor had
don't have Amer­

said to himself, "What a country.'' not changed in any way since his The comedian related his ican Express, they "coming over." troubles in adapting to the language 
have Russian "What was funny to me then, is
and customs of America. "I went 
still funny to me now. I have 
inw a restaurant and the waitress Express-'Don't changed as a person, I am anasked if I wanted cheesecake. I said, 
American now. I was ever since I
'I don't don't like cheesecake, can I leave home.' '' 
first struggled with English, or
have some jdlo?' She said, 'Sure, I've 
when I promised myself not to date
got jello coming out of my ears.' " -Yakov Smirnoff 
Russian women. I became an
Smirnoff looked at her and said, "I'll 
American the moment I got on the
take cheesecake." the Black Sea, which gave him con· plane to leave Russia."
Smirnoffcouldn't believe super· tact with tourists from many other markets when he first saw them. countries. Smirnolfsaid that working with "On a cereal box it said 'Free prize What prompted him to im· such established stars as Robin inside.' And I said to myself, what a migrate to the United States? Williams, Richard Pryor, and now country! So I had to open it up and "Encouragement from friends who Meryl Streep andJack Nicholson dump it all out on the floor." already were here, and wrote to me. gave a boost to his career. He con­
For a large part of the perfor­Tourists that I met, and just my siders himself lucky. As to where he mance, Smirnoff responded to personal disgust with SOviet censor­sees himself in two years, Smirnolf questions from the audience, and ship," said Smirnolf. When asked if said, "I don't know, everything is spoke of his native land with sharp he was happy here, he replied with just going great now. I'll probably sarcasm. "When you're a comedian an ecstatic "Yes!" He said he never have my own TV show, but that's in Russia, everything is censored," thought that he would become as easy. The question is do I want it? A 
he said. "You have to write all your successful as he did. year ago I would have jumped on matt·rial out beforehand, and send it Does he miss anything about the idea. But today I just don't to the Department ofJokes for Russia at all? "I can't think ofanyth· know."­approval. Then they send it to the ing, I mean honestly," he said. "Do As we were walking out through big Department ofJokes in Mos· you have any ideas? I wish some­the glass doors ofStepan Center, cow. It's called the Politburo." body would help me. People ask me Smirnolflooked at me and said in 
and I fed stupid sometimes.'' Russian, "When I am on stage, I am 
After tht· show, I followed Smir­Asked if he would ever visit the me. Not an act. A real person. That's noffto his dressing room, and he Soviet Union, he replied "No, not the only thing I am trying to get invited mt· in with a friendly hand· now at least. The situation between across." I think that says it all. 'Yakov Smirnoffentertains a capacity crowd at Stepan Center 



True confessions of various personalities at Notre Da111e 
Maybe I should take up lacrosse or suspecting Dillon SYR dates · He horrible! He picked me up early and ministration building for 70 yearsKrisMurphy something ... sounded so nice on the phone. He like, he hadn't showered in who and I'm really hungry. I wanted to said he just wanted to be friends. He knows how long. So we got to the get a beer but they seem to have
features staff writer 
Lisa-one oflast week's un-wasn't in the dogbook but I mean, SYR and he started drinking abolished that around here. Oh how bad could he be, you know? everything in sight. I was so embar­well. Where'd my cabin go?
uess what, boys and girls. rassed.
GThere arc lots ofguilty people 
on campus this week and they're all French teacher· You want to
I started hitting on his 

just dying to spill their guts all over know why I gave you all that
roommates but he was too busy

this column! So to help alleviate homework over the weekend? I did
singing that fight song and spilling
their guilt and frustration, I present it because I'm a mean and nasty
cheap beer on his tie to notice. He True Confessions. was just totally clueless. I tried to French person and I like to watch leave but the doors were all locked. 
students like you strangle to death Gerry Faust· I . I don't So finally it was over and he walked trying to conjugate "allcr." Next 
know what comc:s over me. Every week we have two tests and aver­
me back to Saint Mary's. We're week we practice, practice, pratice. standing in front ofmy dorm and bal quiz so start learning how to talk We try all sorts ofnew plays, we hit through your nose now.
he'd sobered up enough to sayhard, we sing the fight song. But 
"Usa, Lisa, your eyes shine like the 
every Saturday the same thing hap· Descartes· You know all that
autumn moon." Then he threw uppens. I hear this little voice in my stuff I wrote about truth and
on my dress. head saying "Gerry, Gerry, don't knowledge and everything? Wc;ll, I pass. Run Pinkett up the middle on was drunk when I wrote it and it's every single play. Up the middle, My mom · I'm so ashamed. Kris all wrong. I know you already had Gerry. Don't send him around the used to be such a nice boy. Then he to read it and everything but I was end or he might break away and went away to that Notre Dame just fooling around, so forget about gain some real yardage. Hundreds place and he never calls or writes. it okay? Thanks. of alumni would have heart attacks. He doesn't do his homework either It's okay Gerry, Allen enjoys having he just drinks to excess and chases Gosh, that feels better. Ifyou've his body destroyed every time he women! Where did we go wrong? got a true confession to make send touches the ball. Pinkett up the Please come home, Kris. Stop it to 403 Howard Hall and maybe middle, Pinkett on first down. Then writing for that rag and become a I'll embarass you in public. By the kick field goals, lots offield goals. priest! way, I'll be writing obnoxious stulf Pinkett, field goals, Pinkett, field in this space on a regular basis from goals. . You are getting very Father Sorin · My true confes­now on, and I'd love to get some sleepy Gerry . . . " I can't stop sion? I'm not really dead. I've been obnoxious mail so keep those cards that voice, guys. It's not my fault. locked in the basement ofthe ad-and letters coming. 
I 



Sports Briefs 
The ND soccer team won a game and tied one this weekend at the Illinois State Tournament in Normal, Ill. The Irish tied the host Redbirds, 2-2, in their seventh overtime game of the season. Saturday night, Notre Dame beat Vanderbilt, 2-1. Tom Ger­lacher, Randy Morris and Bruce "Tiger" McCourt were named to the all-tournament team for the Irish, who finished in second place. More details will appear in The Observer on Wednesday.-The Ob­server 
The ND lacrosse team, in its only competition planned for this fall, won the Chicago Fall Lacrosse Classic. The Irish beat Lake Forest, 8-3, and Northwestern, 17-1, on Saturday, and then beat the Dayton Lacrosse Club, I 7-1, and the Chicago Lacrosse Club, 10-5, to win the eight-team tournament. Jim Shields led the team with seven goals and five assits over the weekend. jeffShay added six goals and two assists, john McLachlan contributed four goals and three assists, and freshman john Olmstead had three goals and five assists. -The Observer 
The ND golfteamwon the 20th annual Spartan Invita­tional at Forest Acres in East Lansing, Mich., this weekend. The Irish had a score of 297, beating Michigan's 303 and Eastern Michigan's 
304. There were II teams in the tournament, which went 18 holes instead ofthe planned 36 because rain cancelled play Saturday. Irish captain john O'Donovan shot a 72 and won medalist honors in a three-hole playoff with Michigan's Chris Westfall. Rich Connelly, Lon Hutlinan and Chris Bona each shot 75, and john Anthony hit 81 for Notre Dame. The Irish end the fall season with a 27-1 record.­
The Observer 
Prospective ND basketballwalk-onswill 
try out for the men's team tomorrow from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Anyone who is interested should report to the ACC auxiliary gym ready to play at 7:45p.m. Call Coach Kilcullen in the basketball office (239­5337) for more information.-The Observer 

Monday, October 14, 1985-page 10 
Prospective ND women's basketball 
walk-ons will try out for the team on Wednesday from 8:30p.m. to I 0 p.m. Anyone who is interested should report to the ACC auxiliary gym ready to play on that day. -The Observer 
A freshman swimming meet will be held by NVA tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Building. Hall representatives must submit a list ofparticipants to Coach Welch in the Rock by Monday. Divers must provide a list of dives before the meet. Call Welch at 2 39-704 2 or 2 39-51 00 for more information. ­The Observer 
SMC intramuraltennis tournament entries will be accepted at the Angela Athletic Facility until Friday. Both singles and doubles matches will be played. -The Observer 
Open co-ree volleyball games will be played every Wednesday night from 9 p.m. to 10:45 p.m. in the Angela Ath­letic Facility. -The Observer 
Flag Football officials are needed at Saint Mary's. Call 284-5548 for information.-The Observer 
Aerobics teachers are needed at Saint Mary's. Call 284-5548 for information.-The Observer 
The ND women's tennis team won the North 
Star Conference tournament this weekend in St. Louis. Every Irish singles player won her final match in straight sets, and two doubles teams also won first place, while the other was third. Details will appear tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 
All novice boxing tournament participants 
must attend weigh-ins today at 4 p.m. in the boxing room in the 
ACC. -The Observer 

Irish 

continuedfrom page 16 
"I happy with the team's perfor­mance over the weekend," said Fal­lon. "Oral Roberts was a tough team to play. ibey have a lot of foreign players who are very tough, includ­ing their No. I player, who plays for the Greek junior Davis Cup Team. 
"I believed that the match against Oral Roberts would be decided by the doubles teams," continued Fal­lon. "I tried to create doubles teams that would work well together. As a result of challenge matches, the three teams were decided. These tandems, along with strong singles play, played well. I have to give credit to all the team members for their play this weekend." 
The team ended its fall season 
with a 3-0 record. As to the future, 
Fallon said he sees minor changes in 
the team players, but also a restruc­
turing of positions as rriore chal­
lenge matches between team 
players will take place over the 
winter. 

"The freshman players have gained good college experience as a result of the tournament." he said "Kalbas, who is currently playing No. I for the Irish, came across strong experienced players this weekend. He experienced a little trouble, but I foresee improvement which will make him a much better player. 
"As to joe Nelligan, I think he will 
move up. He is too good a player to 
be playing in the No. 6 position. All 
changes wiU be a product of the 
winter challenge matches." 
Tht• Obserr•er l'iolrt: Dam.: olfkt:. locarnl on lht: thin! tloor of LaFortune Student Ct·nr.:r. acct:pls classifkd ad\'ertbing from') a.m. unril -• p m.. .\lunda\ through friday Tbe{)bsert•er ~aim \tan··, offi<T. locart·d on tht· rhtrd floor of Haggar Colkgt: Ct:ntt'r. acct:pts classift.:ds from 1.!:_~0 p.m until -~p.m . .\ton­day though Friday lkadlint: for n.:xt-ua\' dassiftt·ds is -~ p m All dassiftt·ds must ht: prt:paid. t:itht:r in pt:rson or h\' mail< :hargt: is I 0 n·nrs r>t:r fin· charac­



Classifieds 
lt:rs ·r dav. 

LOOK, WHOEVEJIII THE IIACKPACK IIILWAUKEE DESPERATELY NEED NEED MANY USC GA'a Of STUD. RICK Long laland Club •u• the only bus to KLEPTOIIANIAC ANO HAll NMaED 4 RIDE TO MILWAUKEE AREA ON 288-5418$$$. Long Island ia leaving FRIDAY Oct. 18NOTICES OTHEJIIIACKPACKI THII WEEK NOT FRIDAY THE 18TH CAN LEAVE EARLY I PERSONALS going to Hempllead bua terminal, ana il TO MENTION IIINE, I JU.-r WANT YOU IN THE AFTERNOON WILL PAY USUAL I NEED USC TIX. CALL BRIAN AT 2937. will rerum to N.D. Sunday Oct 27. Round 
································································ 

.................................. TO KNOW THAT YOU'VE MADE IIY CALL SARAH 284-4391 EVENINGS The lruth you speak hu no palandno trip is $76.00 One way trip ia $45.00 Call TYPING AVAILABlE UFE A UVING HELL THII ftiK, AT D-ately need 5 GA fOf Navy Of Mise. future. Pele Of Paul al 2448 fOf info and reserva­287-4082 LEAIT UIE WHAT UTT\.E DECENCY game. Money no object. Calf Kevin2113. tiona. YOU HAVE LEFT TO RETUitN IIY 
~is, and thai's Illil nHdslo be. 

)I()TEI.AQAIN, IT II A MOWN I need 4 GA'e fOf NO-USC will accept 2 THE NOVICE ARE COMING Tomorrow TYPING CALL CHRII 234-8117 JANIPOIIT CONTAINING FOR SALE sets of 2 call Kathy at 1 124 -Richard Bach, IHullone. at 4:00 the Notre Dame Boxing Club WIN IR,FitENCH,ICIENCE star1 the Novice Boxing Tournament in the EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 NOTUOOKI,AND KEYI. -NO TO ........~9.~.~-~:.:.:.•9_u_~_k:.:.:•~~'-"'". .......... box1ng room at !he ACC Come see aome
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF ME!! I have two
LoeT AND FOUND IN THE AD IIUILD­OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. future Bengal Boutere fight il out fOf the
19n Okla Cui Sup Brougham: 350 V-8: ARMY GAl. They are yours fOf two USC
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL ING Oil lEND AN ANONYIIOUI NOTE CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.. 1 Novice tides. See frienda and a-mates
pa,pb,A/C,T-Topa,Cruiae,Recent Eagle GAl Of caah. CaH Steve 81 1204. Hurry
MRS. COKER, 233-7009 AI TO ITI WHEitEAaOUTI TO 3111 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. in thier first boxing match. THE NOVICE
SIS, 1OOw Cullom Stereo. Sharp! Robert befOfe I wise up!! 
WALIH IN CAllE OF VICTIM. 
ARE COMING 

258-9346.WOfiDPitOCUIING Help ua avoid the Beantown bfuee. Give
AD HELP! NEED 2 TICKS FOR NAVY
2n.-.s KEYBOARD, KOfg Poly-800. 5 moe. old, GAME. WHAT'S YOUR PRICE? CALL ua a ride lo Bolton Of vicinity fOf October C&M: What would make a large but mild­FltEE PICKUP I DEUVEJIY LOIT: IIY NAVY .LUE IPORT COAT break. CaH Maria4174. mannered juvenille officer threaten to
xcel cond. $550 Of best offer. cafl Tom at KERRY:1302
II ON THII CAIIPUI IOIIEWHEitE. I !Ike you down lo the a!lt1on? 
1619. 

HEYYOUI!! YO! Need Army ticket for fittle bro. MakeWOULD UKE IT .ACK AND THEitE 
································································ I need 8 ride to Pensacola, Florida 
WILL .E NO 7 .UKED. NO ONE HAll .and an Uzi .9 millimeter. Hey, BOZO'
hie day & mine. CaH Steve,1851. 
Of somewhere close (Mobile, Albama) 

CALLED UOUT THEIIt IPORT COAT You can'! do thai! WRONG!! BOZO THAT I HAVE. PLEAIE CALL IItKE AT RULES!!
after the Army game Saturday Of SundayWILL TltADE 2 ARMY GA'S AND $ FOR
LOST/FOUND I TICKETS
1105 IF YOU HAVE IIINE OR I HAVE 4 OR 2 MISS. GA'S. KEITH-3034 PLEASE CALL BOll AT 2f1T7

YOURI. The BIG TOE QUEEN and the moat 
talkltlva person in 135 Farley rums 21ArmyGA'a WILL mADE 2 UIC GA'I FOR 2 PENN Yes. I admit it, I want to go lo New Jersey 

LOST: ALRIGHT, I'VE HAD IT. ON 9/24 Loat 1 Hamikon gold watch in SAGA on today. It will not be pleasant! HAPPY
Two seta of two adjoining tickets fOf sale. ITATE Til. 201-515--6827. fOf October break. And yes. I edmit it I
MY BLUE BACK PACK WAS STOLEN Thursday Oct. 10. Please call 284-5490. BIRTHDAY ANNE! 
Telephone 233-8803. want to be here fOf the Army and USCFROM THE SOUTH DINING HALL. I Rewwd. 
2 AJIIIIY GA'S fOf sale best offer, call games. Finally, I have to admit that I need HAVERUNTHISAD FORAWEEKANOI My dad ian't a domer, my mom didn'tgoto larry3460 a ride to the Garden Stale. Wil pay !he
HAVE HAD NO LUCK. I AM REALLY SMC. The tradition could begin with me. I ATIENTION K·IIAitT SHOPPERI SAB
usual. Please call3490 if you. can offer mePISSED! IT WAS AN OLD THING, BUT I have 2 nephews !hat can come lo the BUS TO O'HARE FOR FALL BREAK.

2 GA tix USC. 41 !;-966-5291 Duly Office. 
a ride.

WANT IT BACK. MY ROOMMATE'S FOR RENT USC game. They are only 3&5 10 !hey $10 $10 $10 $10 $10 $10 $10 $10
Leave name and message !Of Juon.
MAROON JACKET WAS IN THERE AND need aomeone to drive. They have the BUSES LEAVE MAIN CIRCLE FRI OCT

THE LAW CARAVAN

IF YOU DON'T GIVE ANYTHING ELSE '.iriver now all they need ia 4 GA'S. help 18 6 PM SAT OCT 19 6 PM DEADLINE
4safe IUSC & Army ltud tix CHEAP! II
BACK, PLEASE AT LEAST GIVE ME RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE them2252 FOR PAYMENT IS THURS OCT 17 AT
1070 
COlliNGTHE JACKET BACK. IF YOU HAVE IT, 

OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR SAB RECORD STORE. PLEASE SHOW SOME COMMON 
NEEDED: 3 Navy GA'a Cell Paul at 1605 Wed., Oct. 11, from 11 am to 3 pm, atCITY/COLLEGATE RENTALS ARIIY Til FOR IALE (G.A.'I AND tha ltapan Canter 'Ill'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''"'"''''''''' DECENCY AND CALL 3884. THANK INC.,2597661 Hey, do barbarians like to wuzzle? I
STUDENT) WILL IELL ltEAIONAIILE
need 4 tiu to army catl2723491 (gu) 100 Law lchool Rapa. w!H ba on hand .,_,..._ glvan to-wanting lor on.on-OM tntllriMI rnMtlngeYOU VERY, VERY MUCH! thought eo, but !hen so do wotfriders, go­
2-3 BDRM. HSE (CARPETED), backa, sorrow's enders, and gliders. A~
~--N-E:iii:i'2"N.t:\;-v··;:.;.:s--c:Aii·i:iii<ii".4r IIof tham (ca11277-7fl70) ALL ITUDENTS AJIIE INVITED
HAVE YOU EVER LOST SOMETHING $275/MO.CALL2n-15690R2n-2364. ways, always, always Rare, beware of VERY SPECIAL TO YOU? If not, can you 1605 elves! Ruv Rungl&-a-Roo! p.s. I like my
2 ARMY STUDENT TICKETS FOR
imagine how you would feel if you loet a new nick name! 
Need many USC GA lix. Will pay big SALE. Cell 284-4425 HELP! I need a ride from Wah. DC lo NOpraenl from your boyfriend Of girlfriend? 
bucks! Please catl289-34n. on Oct. 27. Will share expenses. Call
PRETTY ROTIEN. HUH? Well that'a IIBV
WANTED Kathy at 2600. 
how I feel right now becauae I loa! the MY SISTER IS COMING 'IN FOR THE I couldn't write whal I wanted le>-1 knew GOLD BRACELET my boyfriend gave NEEDED: GA TICKETS FOR ARMY MISS. GAME AND NEEDS ALL TOUR Amla and Paata: you'd ahool me! me. II ia aomewhere on the rOM! between TIXS!! SHE IS OFFERING HER FIRST H-·•a ltltarnant,ln writing, of that (I know how badly you want that 4.0!) So,
GAMEPHONELAURA3~ 
L.eMana and Sorin. PLEASE HELP ME NEED RIDE TO NORTHERN N.J. FOR BORN AND/OR CASH! PLEASE CALL brlal IIUI lun-llllacl llrat hall of llrat alll'llaayia.. FINO IT. II you do. call Judy al 284-5063. BREAK WILL SHARE EXPENSES CALL NEED PENN ITATE Till!I ROB AT 1034 • -:no one can aay that our ao­I hope all your wiahes come lrue!!! THANK-YOU!!! FRANK 1502 Will trade 2 Navy GA's 
clal gathartnge -duH and unexcit­

FO< 2 Penn Sllle GA'a ...............~~~~Y..~~~~-~~~r~~---------------­
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF ME f0f4 GA'eto Ing! And what a fun tlma you two heel 
STUDENT WANTED TO SELL HOT II you'vagot Pann l181atlx, THANK YOU, ST. JUDE.
LOST: BLUE BACK PACK WITH USC Of LSU--call Big Jeff at 3559 .nar lllckay'a gala affair! MAROON TRIM, CONTAINS A JACKET NEW FOOTBALl BOARD GAME. MUST caiii.Mry at 2082 Juat lor tha record: Chlal Juatlca Worn Bugar Mys, 
AND A CHECK-BOOK (THE CHECKS USC.ND GA TIX NEEDED. CALL TOM TwltJ-2, lllclonne-7, •111 Sle--4 "Any person who doesn't !Ike the oppor­BE AMBITIOUS AND OUTGOING, WITH 
ARE All CANCELED) AND IS LABELED A SPORTS BACKROUND. OWN WANTED: (2) GA USC TIX-BILL HOLLERBACH COLLECT AT 312-56!;-lloo-lloo-2, Tranalar-lha'a not tunity lo apeak 10 the 100 law lchoof rep_s. WITH AN AIRLINE TAG. CALL 3211 OR (617)746-8700 5959. • aaylng. at Stepan Center from 1 1 am lo 3 pm on
HOURS. GROUND LEVEL SALES POSITION WITH NEW DISTRIBUTOR. CALL KEN'S DISTRIBUTING, (707)763­

3209. Plato(atta)-lha'a not aaylng aft­Wed. Ocl 16 ia a foot undeserving of Con­
HELP! HELP! NEED 1 ARMY GA'S! WILL NEEDED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR THE ARMY her. stitutional protection." NOW I All .EQQINGIIII WHOEVEit 6049, COLLECT. PAY BIG BUCKS! CALL TED AT 4073 GAME! PLEASE CALL COLLEEN SMC-Rambo-aha'a foal 1r11ck (maybeDECIDED IIY DENIM JACKET-WITH 
ORBOBAT2199! 4355 putty knowa?) MBA STUDENTS WHO WERE AT OR. THE TWO. TONE, INAPI, I ZIPPEJI NEED RIDE FOR 2 FROM BALTO./OC a-t-2, Llwyar-P-Ing tha 5th. · YEANDEL'S: Thank you fOf a wonderful 
AREA TO NO .y NOON 10/25. HELP!

OFF ILEEVEI-WAll WORTH IIOIIE I need 3 Army Student Tix and 4 USC NEED TICKETS FOR USC GAME CALL And laat llut NOT IMat, Qu-BUnk dinner & a fun time. Look fO<Ward 10 doing TO THEil THAN liE-YOU AJIIE Cell Kevin 112048. GA'e Of Student Tix. Will pay top $, cafl ANN 284-4296 haraall, tha ..nd prlza wlnnar, with a something together again (Thurs. nigh!?). WRONGIITHAT JACKET II WORTH 
1644-0an llna tlhowlng of 10 In 2 waakll (Thankl Sheila, Sue, Michelle. & Jenny. 
IIIOI'IE TO liE THAN ANYTHI~ PLEASE TAKE ME HOME lOt break to NEEDED:GA & STUDENT TX FOR toP-). .
................................................................ 
COULD YOU PLEASE FIND IT IN YOUit Kewanee,ll.(wesl on 1-80) 10/18 Of 

I need 4 Army & 4 USC GA'a call Mike ARMY.THIS IS A PLEA FOR HELP!CALL Walova you both and kn-you'H ba PHIL-YOUR LOS5-NIKKI HEAJIIT TO ltETUitN IT TO 400 10/19.Call Jack 2073. 3095 1254. 
beck to-ua --Wa affirm that youLYONS/11211511 both claaarva much battar than ND. THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT 
HELP,I needarideto O.C.-norlhern VIR· 

AJIIIIY GAa FOIIIALE.272-GCMI FOf sate 2 GAs Army & Navy,best offer Good Luck and may wa ralaa a 1-'to -PIANO BAR­HEY: Do you like my JEAN JACKET? I GINIA area !Of break. Cell Sean II 3413. 234 9431 
two ol tha "II-lncllvfcluall" who FEATURING; BOll COIIIIGAN 8­know I DID. ~by accident you look II from THANKS. I need two NAVY GA'a. Name your prica. ..,., mecta an -or In Juclgamant at 11PII, OCT. 111 HCC -IIIC -FREE Flanner'a pi! on Tueeday nigh!, pi­PI-call Bob at 283-1143. I have a PAIR of ARMY GA'sfOtsafe. Best Gocl'a moat pracaclantecl unlv...ty. NACHOS. rerum it. $$$$ Reward offered end no Driver fOf U-Haul lo Santi Cruz II Xmas offer over $50. Call Peter 4-10 PM al 2n-(Paraonally wa thing tha 11--broke queetiona Uked. CaH 11n. THANKS.. brl<. Cell 234-9271. NEED 2-4 USC TIX GA OR STUD KATH­8285. Will be eofd by 10 PM TUE. rula no. 8 haraall to bring about auch a LEEN 2n-1464 change, only aha -·talaaplngl) Ned, Good luck T ueaday with A.A. L.oel! One jean jacket, probllbly laat Friday ONE-WAY RIDERS TO ALBANY, NY Of NEED TWO USC GA'S FOR PARENTS "Uhm.. .like...you know?" P.M.A.! YOU
Hay, at taut you -outklcklnglin room 114 Olhag.. If you found it pl­1-90 pll en route !Of Break. Call Ju~e SEWNG 4 USC TICKETS. Seal offer. FROM CALIFORNIA CALL CURTIS AT LovaandKI-, can do il! Heather 
call1784. MIKE3380 1421
xl298. I IEMy Chlckl 
The Observer Monday, October 14, 1985 -page 11 
St. Louis destroys Los Angeles, 12-2, evens series 
Associated Press pitcher past the third inning. Yankees had previously collected 
The Cardinals kayoed Bob Welch two hits in one inning of a playoff 
ST. LOUIS -The St. Louis Car­in the third inning Saturday as they game. dinals, shocked by a bizarre runaway beat the Dodgers 4-2 in Game 3. Clark, who had only two hits in tarpaulin accident that felled Vince The Cardinals will send Bob the previous three playoff contests, Coleman, rebounded with a record­Forsch, 9-6, against Game 1 winner led off the inning against Reuss with setting 12-2 victory over Los An­Fernando Valenzuela, 17-10, in a single up the middle. Cedeno geles last night behind the pitching Game 5 here on today. The best-of­followed with another single, sen­of John Tudor. The victory evened seven series shifts to Los Angeles on ding Clark to second, and Landrum t,he National League playoffs at two Wednesday. singled to center to score Clark as games apiece. Coleman, who stole 1 1 0 bases Cedeno went to third. Landrum 
Tito Landrum, Coleman's replace­during the season and is a key ele­went to second on the throw home. ment in left field, had a record-tying ment in the Cards breakaway of­Pendleton drove in a run with a four singles and drove in three runs fense, was injured about two hours bouncer to second as Landrum In his first start in the playoffs. before the game. The accident moved to third, and Tom Nieto 
Landrum, a playoff hero for Bal­occured as the grounds crew walked. Tudor then laid down a timore in 191-13, and Jack Clark set prepared to cover the field in a light squeeze bunt toward the mound. league playoff records with two hits rain, using an automatic, retractable Reuss fielded the ball, then dropped apiece In the Cardinals' nine-run system that rolls the tarp over the in­it for an error. Landrum scored, second Inning, and Terry Pendleton field on a long metal cylinder. Nieto went to second and Tudor was drove in three runs in the Inning. Coleman had trotted in from the safe at first. The Cardinals had eight hits in the outfield on his way to the dugout, A fly ball to right field by Willie inning, all singles, and sent 14 men then turned to throw his glove to a McGee moved Nieto to third, and to the plate. teammate when the mechanism was Smith singled him home, sending 
The Cardinals wound up with I 5 raised from below ground level on Tudor to second. Tommy Herr's hits that included the four by the first-base side ofhomeplate. The single scored Tudor as Smith went Landrum, three more by Clark and metal cylinder apparently rolled up to third, and that was all for Reuss. two apiect· by Ozzic Smith and Cesar behind Coleman while he wasn't The score was 5-0, and the left­Cedeno. Clark also scored three looking, knocked him down and ran bander Reuss had given up five hits times. up his left leg, causing scrapes and while walking a batter in his 1 2/3 
Tudor, the loser in Game I at los bruises. innings' work. Angeles, retired the first 14 Dodgers Team Doctor Stan London said X­Clark greeted reliever Rick bailers and had a no-hitter going un· rays showed no breaks, and the in­Honeycutt, another left-bander, til Steve Sax doubled to lead off the jury, while excruciatingly painful, with a single that scored Smith and sixth. Tudor, 21-H during the season, was not considered serious. sent Herr to second. A walk to allowed just three hits, walked two No less bizarre than the accident Cedeno loaded the bases, and and stru('k out five through seven in­was the inning in which the Car­Landrum hit a bouncer to shortstop nings. He lost his shutout when Bill dinals scored their first nine runs Mariano Duncan for an infield single, Madlock led off the seventh with a against three Los Angeles pitchers. scoring Herr. home run. In the process, the Cards set Pendleton then singled, driving in 
The Cardinals, meanwhile, dis­playoff records for runs, hits and at­his second and third runs of the in­pt·nsed with Dodgers starter Jerry bats in an inning. And Landrum and ning and chasing Honeycutt. Right­Reuss in their big second inning, the Clark set individual Nl playoff marks handed reliever Bobby Castillo second straight playoff game the with the two hits apiece. Only Graig struck out Nieto finally to end the Dodgers failed to get a starting Nettles in 1981 with the New York inning. 
Injury not serious 
Coleman pinned by tarpaulin 
"->elated Press "Right now we've got ice on it to to hear because of all the scream­keep the swelling down." ing." ST. LOUIS -The St. Louis Car­His teammates, having just con­dinals' hopes in the National league According to witnesses, Coleman cluded batting practice, let out yells playoffs suffered a jolt yesterday wa.'i leaving the field when he when Coleman was caught. when rookie outfielder Vince wheeled and threw his glove toward Coleman's left leg was pinned under a Cardinal coach. That is when the "1 was just turning around (and) I · a tarpaulin device, forcing him out of tarp was activated. heard this scream and the thing Game 4 against the los Angeles swallowed him up," third baseman Dodgers. Dodger batboy Howard Hughett, Terry Pendleton said. Coleman, the offensive catalyst of who was on the field when the acci­After being removed from St. Louis' attat·k with a rookie-record dent occurred, said the device beneath the tarp, which is powered I I 0 stolen bases, "will obviously not "rolled up his leg and went up to his by a motor and weighs an estimated play tonight," team doctor Stan Lon­knee before it was removed. His face 1,200 pounds, Coleman was ex­don said, "and there will be a further was scrunched up and it looked like amined at the scene by the team determination later." he was in agony." trainer Gene Gieselmann and taken Coleman was replaced in the "He wa.'i able to get his right foot from the field on a stretcher. lineup by Tito Landrum in left field. out of the way but it caught his left The grounds crew was preparing London said the device rolled up foot," said Cards' utility player Mike to place the tarpaulin onto the in­the. outside part of Coleman's left· Jorgensen. field to protect the artificial playing leg, causing a severe bruise from "We just rolled away the cage, we surface at Busch Memorial Stadium ankle to mid-thigh. He said prelimi­got the balls off the field," Jorgensen against a light rain, which had been nary X-rays were negative. said. "Vince was getting ready to falling most ofthe day. "The circulatory and neurological throw his glove to (coach) Dave Ken Ragan, chief of the ground 
systems in the leg were intact and Ricketts. He (Coleman) looked crew, said there "wasn't an operator the ankle and knee joints were in­scared. He was hurting. I don't think in the area" when the accident oc­tact. It just hurts a lot," London said. they (the grounds crew) were able curred. 

-SENIORS-
Explore your desire ---tolearn, 

---togive, ---togrow, ---andto love 
with 

Holy Cross Associate Program in Chile A two-year post-graduate commitment in service in community lifestyle. 
For more informotion contact:  
*Mary Ann Roemer  ~M. J. Murray  
Center for Social Concerns:  Associates Office:  
239-1949  239-5521  Application Deadline November 7th  

Reuss, the 36-year-old veteran who came to Los Angeles in 1979, saw his playoff record fall to 0-7, al­though only two of the seven runs credited to his column were earned after his own error. He lost three playoff games with Pittsburgh, before being traded to Los Angeles. 
Landrum, meanwhile, was no stranger to playoff heroics. With the Orioles in 1983, Landrum hit a 1Oth­inning homer that broke a 0-0 tie in the fourth and clinching game ofthe American League playoffs with the Chicago White Sox. 
Landrum had only one hit in his finall6 at-bats ofthe season and had one hit in two previou~ at-bats in this series. 
Landrum's third hit and third RBI of the game came in the fourth in­ning. He singled following a double by Cedeno, making the score 10-0. 
The Cards made it I 1-0 in the fifth. McGee, hitting leadoff in place of Coleman, hit a bloop double into left field. He went to third on a chopper back to the mound by Smith and scored on a sacrifice fly to deep right-center by Herr. 
Tudor, who gave up four runs on seven hits in 5 2/3 innings of a 4-1 loss in Game 1 last Wednesday, did not allow a baserunner until walking pinch-hitter Steve Yeager on a 3-2 pitch with two out in the fifth. 
He still had a no-hitter going, though, until Sax hit a 1-0 pitch over the third-base bag for a double to lead off the sixth inning. The par­tisans in a crowd of 53,708 at Busch Stadium gave their pitcher a loud ovation. 
He struck out the next batter, Cas­tillo, but then walked Dave Ander­son. Enos Cabell popped out to third for the second out ofthe Inning, and Tudor had his shutout still intact when Pedro Guerrero grounded out to Pendleton at third. 
In the next inning, however, Tudor lost the shutout when Mad­lock lined a 1-0 pitch just fair down the left-field line for a homer. Mad­lock had 12 homers during the season, but this was his first in playoffcompetition. 
The Dpdgers scored their second run in the eighth inning off reliever Ricky Horton. Len Matuszek led off with a pinch single, went to second on a ground ball and, one out later, scored on a single by Guerrero. 
The Cards scored their 12th run with two out in the eighth. Clark doubled and Andy Van Slyke singled him home. Landrum's fourth hit, another single, sent Van Slyke to second base, but the Cardinals' record offensive evening ended when Pendleton lined to center. 
From that point, the Redbirds 
were unstoppable. Rehor continued 

serving for the rest of the match, continuedfrompage 16 scoring 1 0 straight points in all to many youngsters from the Michiana give Illinois State its seventh straight area turned out to see how the game victory. should be played. Unfortunately, Il­Perhaps Notre Dame's lackluster linois State did most of the teaching, performance was a result of its unleashing a blistering attack. schocking defeat at the hands ofBut­
It didn't take long for the Red­ler Friday evening. Notre Dame had birds, as they took an 8-0 lead handled the Bulldog.'> earlier in the quickly, mainly on the spiking ofhit­year at the Hoosier State Classic, but ters Chris Rehor and Tracy Stroyan. an inability to put a team away cost 

Volleyball 
•The Irish looked exceptionally fiat, the Irish this time. and never got on track in game one. Notre Dame won the first game 
For that matter, they never got despite a number ofunforced errors. 
much of anything going in game Those errors haunted the Irish the 
two, which proved to be a near car­rest of the night, as Notre Dame 
bon copy of game one. This time Il­never seemed to be able to score the 
linois State bolted to a 6-0 lead, and big points. 
was satisfied to trade points with the Still, the Irish had a chance to play 
Irish the rest ofthe way. badly and win, as they took a 2-1 lead 
Notre Dame looked ready to make into game four. Butler was not about 
a move in game three. Hitter Karen to go home without a fight, though, 
Sapp began to connect on some as it served 10 consecutive points to 
spikes, and an enthusiastic crowd of begin the game and never looked 
387 roared its approval as the Irish back. 
gained a 9-5 lead. The Irish shook off that perfor­
The two teams quickly reverted mance though, and had things under 
to form, however, as the Irish con· control in game five, leading 8-0. 
tinued to make mental errors. With However, the Irish committed a 
the score 9-7 and Illinois State ser­number of mistakes and an angry 
ving, an Irish attack had the Redbirds · Lambert covered the spectrum of 
on the run. With her back to the net; red as he watched Butler rally for its 
Redbird setterJoleneJordan lofted a tenth win in the last 12 matches. 
ball high in the air over the net. The Now Notre Dame must go back to 
descent of the ball seemed to mes­work to prepare for a West Coast 
merize Notre Dame, as four Irish swing over fall break. Hopefully, the players watched the ball fall to the time away from home will court. rejuvenate the Irish squad. 

The Observer 
Monday, October 14, 1985-page 12 

Outside linebacker 




Cedric Figaro can make big plays 
By MIKE S:lYMANSKI 
Sports Writer 
In football, a sport that is increas­ingly turning to specialization, Notre Dame outside linebacker Cedric Figaro emerges as "theplayer whp has the tools to do it all," ac­cording to Irish linebacker coach Bishop Harris. 
Figaro, a sophomore from lafayette, La., said he sees his primary responsibilities as "stopping the outside running game and making big plays." He also plays on the kickoff team. 
Figaro gained valuable ex­perience as a freshman when he was called upon to replace injiured starters Bob Golic and Mike Larkin 

.. 
last season. 
"It was important that I got my bumps and bruises as a freshman, and it built up my confidence," said Figaro. "The older starters showed me how to control agressiveness. In high school, our defense dictated play, and we were overtly intimidat­ing. Here, I have learned to con­centrate on the ball and use force when force is necessary, not just to knock everyone down." 
Using force does not always in­volve being vocal, Figaro said. "Intensity is a personal trait," he 
KANSAS CllY, Mo. -Danny Jack­son, starting for the first time in 10 days, scattered eight hits and the Kansas City Royals scrambled to a 2­0 victory over Toronto that trimmed the Blue Jays' lead in the American League playoffs to 3-2. 
The best-of-seven series shifts back·to Toronto for Game 6 tomor­row night, with the Blue Jays still needing one victory to bring the World Series to Canada for the first time. 
Jackson, who last started on Oct. 3 and mopped up with one scoreless inning in Game 1, was far from per­fect. But the left-bander, who struck out six and walked one, was good enough when he had to be in keeping the explosive Blue Jays off the scoreboard. 
Toronto put runners on second and third with no outs in the fifth and loaded the bases with two outs in the sixth. Both times, Jackson was equal to the challenge. 
The Royals, meanwhile, came out attacking against Jimmy Key, who was hit hard In Game 2 and wound up with a no-decision in a game Toronto eventually won in 10 in­nings. 
Kansas City scored once in the first inning on George Brett's groun­dout, and got its second run in the second on a sacrifice fly by Darryl Motley. Some adventuresome baserunning helped the Royals score both times. 
Jackson had relatively little trouble through the first three in­nings. He gave up a two-out double 


Belles 
continuedfrom page 16 
"The match was very important 
for determining seeding positions 
for districts," said Laverie. "All the 
singles players should be seeded eit­
her one or two." 
Saint Mary's, along with seven ot­
her schools, will be playing in the 
district tournament next Friday and 
Saturday in Anderson, Ind. The 
results of the district tournaments 
determine who will qualify for the 
national tournament in the spring. 
"Saint Mary's has qualified for na­
tionals as a team for the past five 
years," Laverie said. She said she has 
confidence in her team that this year 
will be no different from the past said. "I am not usually a screamer on the field, only when I think it is necessary. I like to keep the op­ponent guessing and not to let him know my thoughts. We have a good combination of screamers and players with quiet resolve, and I think that is healthy." 
Saturday, the Irish will face anot­her wishbone offense from Army, which has a larger offensive line than Air Force. 
"That offense is very challenging for outside linebackers because of the blocking scheme," said Harris. "Figaro is extremely quick and can take on blockers efficiently, though, as evidenced by his good perfor­mance against Air Force." 
"I want to have a better game against Army because I felt that I played tentatively, not wanting to hurt the wrist," said Figaro, who broke his wrist in the Purdue game and is just beginning to get used to the cast. "I don't expect to see Army run with as much technique as Air Force because oftheir size." 
With regard to the course of the season so far, Figaro said he knows "that everyone takes losses hard, but it is even harder on the players. If everyone relaxes to avoid making mistakes, and plays through the mistakes that do happen, then we 

Kansas City Royals take 3-2lead, beat Blue Jays, 2-0, in A.L. series 
Smith, just 1-for-14 in the playoffs, led offthe game for Kansas City with a double to left, the first ofhis three hits. Then, with Willie Wilson at the plate, Smith took off for third and stole it with a head-first slide. 
After Wilson struck out, Brett came up. The Blue Jays, who inten­tionally walked Brett twice in Game 4, elected to pitch to the man with a career .340 playoff average. Brett did not get a hit, but his grounder to shortstop drove home Smith. 
In the Royals second, Frank White opened with a single, just his third hit in 16series at-bats. Steve Balboni, 1-for-15, followed with a single to left, and when White hustled into third ahead of the throw, Balboni lumbered to second just ahead of the relay throw. 
Motley then hit a sacrifice fly deep to center that made it 2-Q. Balboni took third on the play, but Key struck out Jim Sundberg and got Buddy Biancalana on a grounder to end the inning. 
Key, who did not survive the fourth inning in Game 2, constantly pitched with runners on base through the first five innings. 
Smith started the third with a single, and singled again in the fifth. Both times he tried to steal second, but both times the tactic backfired. In the third, Smith lost track of Wil­son's pop fly and failed to get back to first in time to beat a relay throw. Ih the fifth, Key made a pickoff throw to first that trapped Smith. 
Balboni and Motly singled with two outs in the fourth, but Key got out of that jam when Sundberg grounded out. 
five. The district tournament ad­journs the fall tennis season. 
Tomorrow, the Belles will travel to Manchester College for their final match before districts. 
"We should do well. We're a stronger team than Manchester, but we'll still have to work," said Laverie. "It will be a good warm-up for the weekend." 



Baseball 
continuedfrompage 16 
players will wear the Notre Dame jersey when the team steps onto the field for the spring practice sessions, and Gallo said he hopes that a few of his veterans can supply the spark will win because I believe that we have a great team." 

Figaro won the game ball against LSU last year for seven tackles, and said he is looking forward to this year's contest. "It is a special game for me because if we lose, people back home will tell me that I should have gone there," said Figaro. 
Figaro chose Notre Dame because of the great football tradition combined with "a degree that is respected across the nation offered here. Juggling academic life and football is difficult, especially after extremely rough and tifing practices, but it is something I have to do. 
"Football is a year-round com­mittment." said Figaro, who played varsity football, basketball and track in high school, and is contemplating throwing the javelin for the track team this spring. 
Harris has nothing but praise for Figaro. 
"He will be a truly great one here," Harris said. "At 6-3, 232, he has size, strength, speed and temper­ment. He can drop to pass coverage or to stop the run and make the big play. He had a great spring season as MVP in the spring game, and we are very pleased with his progress to date." 
to George Bell in the first, struck out the side in the second and yielded a one-out single in the third to Tony Fernandez. 
The middle three innings were a different story for the 24-year-old Jackson. 
Bellied offthe fourth with a single and Cliff Johnson followed with a single to left. Bell tried to take third on the play as left fielder Lonnie Smith had to wait for a high hop, but Smith's throw to third got Bell. 
The play was a close one, and Toronto Manager Bobby Cox, who has seen several tough calls go against his team, argued the decision with umpire Dale Ford. · 

In the fifth, Garth Iorg opened with a single and Ernie Whitt pulled a double into the right-field corner that sent Iorg to third. Jackson managed to squirm out oftrouble by 
getting  Tony  Fernandez  on  a  
grounder,  Damaso  Garcia  on  a  
popup  and  lloyd  Moseby  on  a  
groundout to second.  

The Blue Jays tried to rally again in the sixth after there were two outs. Singles by Jesse Barfield and Willie Upshaw and a walk to Iorg on a full­count pitch loaded the bases. 
Kansas City pitching coach Gary Blaylock then visited the mound, and the trip may have settled down Jackson, who got Whitt on a weak grounder to second on the first pitch. 
The Royals, determined not to go down without a fight, got on the scoreboard early with help from three unlikely sources and one familiar one. 
needed to lift the team to a success­ful campaign. 
"We have a lot of good talent on the team, young talent," he said. "They have a tremendous amount of potential, but potential doesn't win ballgames. Much of our success come spring will depend on how hard the players want to work over the off-season. 
"I think a big plus for the team is that we might have two of the best captains we've ever had. Richie Van­thournout and Tommy Shields (who was drafted last June by the Pit­tsburgh Pirates) are leaders. They want to win." 
With the talent on the Irish squad, wanting to win might be half the battle. 
11w Obecrvcr/Hannn Hacker. 
Cedric Figaro, shown here rosbing Michigan State quarterback Bobby McAllister, "bas the tools to do it all," according to Irish linebacker coach Bishop Hams. Mike Szymanski describes those tools in hisfeature at left. 
• SUMMER PROGRAMS • • ND-SMC STUDENTS • 
• 13th Annual Program • 
: LONXJN ROt\1E : 
June 15-July 14 
• 
r ........ frartce 

Courses in biology, business, history, Italian • music, sociology, and theatre ~ . 
Informational Meeting .11~ Oct. 14 /(t~·.
Carroll Hall (SMC), 7p.m. t::J ·\ • previous students, slides, andpizza ~.A, _~ • • For further Info. call • • Prof.A.R.Biack 4460 or 272~3726 •

'····························· 

CONTACT LENS 




SALE 
DAILY WEAR SOFT CONTACT LENSES 

Clear Daily Wear Spherical Contact 
$39.98* 
Lenses from Bausch & Lomb. 
EXTENDED WEAR CONTACT LENSES 
Soltmate 30-day extended wear 


$39.98*
spherical contact lenses 
SOFT TINTED 

~t~a~!!n:~en~~h~~t~n~ $79 
correct your vision, they enhance the color 
.98* 
or your eyes. Available in permanently tinted, natural colors of green, aqua, blue or brown. 
'Price does not Jnlude.an eye examination. which is required altha time of purchase. 
Visa-MasterCard-Medicaid-Insurance Programs Welcome Open 6 Days A Week With Evening Hours 
SOUTH BEND: 1111 E IRELAND RD•..291-4000 MISHAWAKA: 506. W McKINLEY... 258-5000 
Also Offices in Indianapolis, Kokomo, Muncie, Anderson, Terre Haute, Richmond, Franklin, New Castle, Lafayette, Bloomington, Columbus, Marion, Shelbyville 
---------------------~ 

The Observer Monday, October 14, 1985 -page 13 

Dorsett and Riggins set records in NFL action 
AAaoclatcd Pn:1111 
Tony Dorsett and john Riggins ran 
into the National Football League 
record books yesterday in leading 
their teams to victories. 
After being held to three yards 
rushing in the first half, Dorsett 
broke out for I 18 in the second half, 
putting him over I 0,000 yards for 
nis career, now in its ninth season. 
He became the sixth running back to 
make that magic figure -Riggins also 
has done it. 
Dorsett also scampered for a 35· yard touchdown in the fourth quarter to clinch Dallas' 27-13 vic­tory over Pittsburgh. He scored on a "i6·yard pass play in the first half. 
Riggins joined Jim Brown as the only backs to rush for I 00 touch­downs in a career when he scored three times and ran for I 14 yards to power the Redskins to a 24-3 victory over the Detroit Lions. At 36, Riggins is the oldest running back in the league. 
Elsewhere Sunday, it was Chicago 26, San Francisco I 0; the Los An­geles Rams 31, Tampa Bay 27; Cin­cinnati 3"i, the New York Giants 30; New England 14, Buffalo 3; Cleveland 21, Houston 6; Denver I"i, Indianapolis I 0; Green Bay 20, Minnesota I 7; Philadelphia 30, St. Louis 7; the Los Angeles Raiders 23, New Orleans 13; San Diego 31, Kansas City 20, and Seattle 30, At­lanta 26. 
Tonight, it's Miami at the New 
York jets. 
• Cowboys 27, Steelers 13 
"I had my doubts early in the first half. But anything good is worth waiting for," said Dorsett, who has I 0,082 yards. "This is no doubt one of the highlights of my career." 
Walter Payton of Chicago, an 11­
year veteran, is the leading all-time 
rusher, followed by Brown, Franco 
Harris, O.J. simpson and Riggins. 
Dorsett was especially excited to have reached his milestone against the Steelers, for whom he rooted growing up in Aliquippa, Pa. 
"It's a thrill to reach 10,000 yards, particularly against the Steelers,". Dorsett said. "I followed the black and gold when I was young and if I had to write a script, I would write it getting the mark against them." 
• Redskins 24, Lions 3 
"I got tired out there. I'm used to three-round walks, not 15-round heavyweight brawls," said Riggins, who scored on runs of one, five and 25 yards and moved within three of Brown's 106 rushing TDs. 
Riggins' third touchdown was the I 13th score of his career, lifting him into a second-place tie with Lenny Moore on the NFL's all-time touch­down list. 
"John never ceases to amaze me," said quarterback joe Theismann. The Lions, who have lost I I strai t to the Skins, have never 
~.~ 

Junior 'arents • lllttktnb 
~·v 
Applications for ~JJJII fuqairptr.son art now auailablt in tftt &tubrnt Actiuitit.s (l!)ffict 1st floor w.Jortunt 

'*'**' 
llrabltnr is IDqursbag. ®ct. 17. 1985. 
*''*'* 

beaten them in Washington, a 13-in the third quarter. Safety )ames Denver touchdown with a 45-yard game slide that dates back to 19 3 7. Griffin returned an interception 24 pass completion. He also rushed for 
• Bears 26, 49ers I 0 yards for a touchdown, and Simms 49 yards, keeping drives alive with 
Chicago, 6-0, avenged last fumbled the ball to the Bengals on runs of 22 and 15 yards in the third season's NFC title game embarrass­the Giants I two plays later. quarter. ment-a 23-0 loss to San Francisco­Simms' yardage trails only Norm • Packers 20, Vikings I 7 by sacking 49ers quarterback Joe Van Brocldin's 554-yard effort for The Packers held the Vikings on a Montana seven times. Walter Payton Los Angeles in 1951. first-and-goal situation in the closing had a pair of touchdown runs and "It doesn't mean much," Simms minutes, and later completed a 66­Kevin Butler booted four field goals. said. "When we look at the game yard scoring drive with AI Del The Bears, helped by two Frisco (films) tomorrow, alii'II see is what I Greco's clinching field goal of 22 fumbles, grabbed a 16-0 lead and screwed up. We gave away too many yards with seven seconds left. didn't allow the 49ers' offense a opportunities to win this game." touchdown. • Eagles 30, Cardinals 7 
The 49ers scored on a 43-yard in­• Patriots 14, Bills 3 Philadelphia, which had scored terception return by Carlton Wil­After Tony Eason suffered a only 46 points in its previous five liamson. separated left shoulder on the third games, broke out as quarterback 
• Rams 31, Buccaneers 27 consecutive sack by the Buffalo Ron Jaworski, starting for the first 
Defense keyed the Rams' sixth defense, Steve Grogan -playing time since being benched for rookie straight win, while the Bucs quarterback for the first time in Randall Cunningham after opening dropped to 0-6. Leroy Irvin and Carl more than a year -led the Patriots to day, threw three touchdown passes. Ekern returned second-half inter­_victory, dropping the Bills to 0-6. Jaworski completed 18 of 28 passes ceptions for touchdowns in a com­Grogan gave the Patriots a 7-3 lead for 243 yards, and Paul McFadden eback triumph. Irvin returned his with a 16-yard TD pass to Irving kicked field goals of 39, 21 and 52 interception of a Steve DeBerg pass Fryar in the third period. He finished yards. 34 yards for the game-winning score with I 5 completions in 19 attempts The Philadelphia defense held St. with 5:58 remaining. Ekern ran his for 282 yards. Louis to 73 yards rushing and forced back 33 yards in the third quarter. quarterback Neil Lomax from the 
• Browns 21, Oilers 6 game with three sacks and two pass 
• Bengals 35, Giants 30 Clarence Weathers hauled in interceptions. Defensive end Greg Cincinnati jumped to a 21-0 edge three passes for 146 yards, including Brown had three sacks. behind the passing of Boomer a 68-yard touchdown from Bernie Esiason, then held off the Giants, Kosar. Cleveland's defense reached • Raiders 23, Saints 13 who got three team passing records Oilers quarterbacks Warren Moon Marcus Allen ran for two touch­
form quarterback Phil Simms. But and Mike Moroski seven times for 41 downs in a span of 3:33, scoring Simms, who completed 40 of 62 yards in losses. from the II and the eight. The game passes for an astounding 513 yards -• Broncos 15, Colts 10 was played before a disappointing 
the second highest total in NFL his­john Elway completed I 7 of 36 crowd of 48, I 52 at the Los Angeles tory -made a pair of costly mistakes passes for 239 yards and set up a Coliseum. 
Belles soccer team wins 1, loses 1 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE with a little more work, we can start do so for the entire game. Sports Writer to compete with teams at the level of "It was a very muddy and wet Marquette, a top-notch club team," field, but I think we went out ready The Saint Mary's soccer team he said. 
to play," he said. "We scored our defeated the Calvin College The Belles played a fast-paced, ag­first goal within the first three Women's Soccer Club, 3-0, Saturday gressive game against Calvin Col­minutes of play, and I thought we 
in Grand Rapids, Mich., but lost to lege, a team previously undefeated, might not play as aggressively after the Marquette University Women's on Saturday. Neither rain nor mud that, but we continued to play well." Soccer Club yesterday at Angela could keep Saint Mary's from con­Akers attributed the Belles' strong Field by the same score. trolling the action on the field. performance throughout the game 
Yesterday under sunny condi­Sophomore Karen Chandler to several team members. tions, the Belles, now 3-8, played wasted no time scoring the first goal "I thought the midfield with Katy their second game of the weekend, ofthe game, putting the Belles ahead Boldt, Mary Anne Perri, and Beth 
and their efforts were not enough to 1-0 after only two minutes ofplay. Hallinan kept us working," he said. overcome Marquette, whose only junior Mary Anne Perri made the "Also, in the second half when we losses this season have been to In­next goal off an assist by senior Sue were ahead 2-0, Calvin had an op­diana and to nationally ranked Wis­Schierl toward the end of the first portunity for an open kick, which consin. 
halfofthe game. would have put them back in the Despite the 3-0 loss, Akers said he Schier! made it 3-0 for the Belles 
game, but goalie Patty Hatfield had a believes the Belles have the poten­as she came across the field and put great save for us. tial to play well against strong teams the ball in the goal with about 20 "Ann Nora Ehret played well at 
like Marquette. 

minutes ofplay reriJ.aining. the stopper position," Akers con­"We looked a little off our game According to Saint Mary's Head tinued, "and Karen Chandler and a little tired, but with a few more Coachjohn Akers, The Belles started worked hard in her starting position people in the right positions and out playing strong and continued to at right wing." 
GOFROMCO~GE~THEARMY 
WITHOUTMISSING A BEAt 
of40 performances a month, there's read music, performing in the also the opportunity for travel-could be your big break. Write: not only across America, but possibly Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort abroad. Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216~5005. 
Most important, you can Or call toll free 1~800~ USA~ARMY expect a first~rate pro~ fessional environment from your instructors, facilities and fellow musicians. The Army 
has educational 
programs that can help you pay for off~ 
duty instruc~ tion, and if you qual~ 
.. i1el~e;ou 
repay your 
If 


Canyouaffordto gamble with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,orMCA1? 
Probably not. Great grades 
alone may I').Ot be enough to 
impress the grad school of 
your choice. 
Scores play a part. And 
that'!'; how Stanley H. Kaplan 
can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches 
test-taking techniques, reviews 
course subjects, and increases 
the odds that you'll do the best 
you cando. 
So if you've been out of 
school for a while and need a 
refresher, or even if you're fresh 
out of college, do what over 1 
million students have done. 
Take Kaplan. Why take l
a chance with your career? 

KAPLAN . 
The worlds leading 
test prep organization. SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219)" 272-4135 

---------~--­
----~ ---~-­

The Observer Monday, October 14, 1985 -page 14 





Notre Dame players discouraged, newspaper says 
CINCINNATl -Although Notre Dame football coach Gerry Faust says his team hasn't given up despite its 1-3 start, the worst since 1962, several ofhis players say they are dis­couraged and have lost confidence. 
"I don't think everyone has a win­ning spirit," linebacker and co-captain Mike Larkin told The Cin­cinnati Enquirer in an interview published yesterday. "It has almost become a habit: go out, don't worry, we'll pick it up next week. I don't know ifwe have the killer spirit as a whole." 
lineman Wally Kleine said, "On occasion we've lacked the ability to get up for teams the way they've got­ten up for us." 
After interviewing Faust and Notre Dame players in South Bend last week, The Enquirer said players are questioning their coaches' knowledge. 

College football 
Faust said the players still have a good attitude, as far as he can determine. 
"I'm not happy with the results so far," Faust said. "That's common sense. I'm happy with the attitude the players have. They've got a real good attitude. The coaches do. No one has given up the ship." 
But The Enquirer said the defense is disgruntled with the offense, which has scored just six touch­downs in four games. Some players think sophomore quarterback Terry Andrysiak should start instead of junior Steve Beuerlein, slow to regain his form after shoulder sur­gery. 
Notre Dame officials say they'll honor Faust's five-year contract, which carries him through this season. Faust has a 26·23·1 mark since coming to Notre Dame from Moeller High School in suburban Cincinnati. 
Faust's 23 losses ties the matk for most losses suffered by an Irish coach, set by Joe Kuharich from 1959 through 1962. 

Faust said he's not about to quit, and that he still has confidence in himself. 
"I'm probably the strongest per­S<>n in this building right now," Faust said, sitting in his athletic depart· ment office. "Everyone thinks I'll be. down. I'm ready to go." 
Even though there's already speculation about a succesS<>r next season, Faust said he's not worried about his future. 
"All I'm concerned about is get­ting the team flowing, getting them on the right track. Things always have a way of working themselves out," he said. 
Notre Dame, idle Saturday, still must play Southern Cal, Penn State, Louisiana State and Miami ofFlorida. The next Irish game is at home against Army. 
Larkin, a Moeller graduate, 


Six Top Twenty teams lose games 
With the baseball season drawing to a close, it seems that it's 1-2-3 and you're out in college football, too. 
Iowa, Oklahoma and Michigan, the top three teams in the As­S<>ciated Press poll, were winners Saturday, but fourth-ranked Florida St. and No. 5 Oklahoma State were beaten by long-time tormentors. 
They were among six losers in the Top Twenty, although all fell at the hands of other ranked teams. Meanwhile, defending national champion Brigham Young con­tinued its latest winning and probably will be back in the Top Ten for the first time since the season's opening week. 
On one of the most attractive weekends in S<>me time, 12 mem­bers of the Top Twenty went at it head-to-head with these results: Ok­lahoma 14, No. 17 Texas 7; No. 12 Auburn 59, Florida State 27; No. 9 Nebraska 34, Oklahoma State 24; seventh-ranked Florida 17, No. 14 Tennessee 1 0; eighth-ranked Penn State 19, No. 10 Alabama 17; No. 19 Baylor 21, No. 16 Southern Met­hodist 14. 
Meanwhile, Iowa held off Wiscon­sin 23·13 and Michigan trounced Michigan State 31·0 to set up next week's battle of Big Ten unbeatens. 
Elsewhere, sixth-ranked Arkansas whipped Texas Tech 30· 7, No. 11 BYU blanked San Diego State 28·0, No. 13 Air Force trimmed Navy 24· 7, No. 15 Ohio State crushed Indiana 48-7, No. 18 Georgia pounded Mis· sissippi 49·21 and No. 20 LSU ham· mered Vanderbilt 49· 7. 
• Oklahoma 14, Texas 7 
Reserve halfback Patrick Collins raced 45 yards around left end for the tie-breaking touchdown early in the fourth quarter to settle the defense-dominated 80th meeting of these ancient rivals. The Sooners' defense, ranked No. 1 nationally, held Texas to four first downs· none in the second half· and sacked Todd Dodge six times despite the loss of all-American nose guard Tony Casil· las with a first-quarter knee injury. 
The Sooners limited Texas to 17 yards on 35 rushes and surrendered just 53 through the air. The four first downs were the fewest by Texas since 1939. • Auburn 59, Florida State 27 
Bo Jackson reeled off touchdown runs of 53 and 35 yards while carry· ing 30 times for 176 yard'i and Auburn turned two interceptions into fourth-quarter scores in run· ning its record against the Seminoles to 12·1-1. Jackson put Auburn ahead 7·0 with his 53-yard burst less than two minutes into the game and gave the Tigers a 31·1 7 lead in the third quarter with his 35-yard dash. ­

Auburn scored four times in the final period on Freddy Weygand's 13-yard reverse, Kevin Porter's 33· yard interception return, 250· pound lineman Ron Stallworth's 22-yard rumble with an interception and Demetrius Threatt's 8-yard run. 
• Nebraska 34, Oklahoma State 24 Quarterback McCathorn Clayton 
for another and Doug DuBose rushed for I 39 yards as the Cornhus­kers stretched their 24-year record against the Cowboys to 23-0·1. Clayton completed eight of 16 passes for 161 yards, including a 38· yard touchdown pass to Robb Schnitzler. 
Oklahoma State quarterback Ronnie Williams passed for a school· record 363 yards, but Nebraska held Thurman Thomas, the nation's second-leading rusher, to 71 yards on 22 carries. • Florida 17, Tennessee 10 
yards and two third-quarter touch· downs as Florida stretched the longest unbeaten string to 15 games before a record Florida Field crowd of 74,432. Anderson's touchdowns gave him 26 rushing touchdowns in his career, breaking Larry Smith's school record of 24. The Gators had a 17·3lead before Tennessee scored its only touchdown early in the final period on a 20-yard pass from Tony RobinS<>n to Tim McGee. 
junior bitter Karen Sapp was determined not to wood, however, as the Irish fell in straight sets. let this Illinois State shot bit the floor of the ACC Chuck Freeby wraps up the weekend volleyball ac­Saturday. Plenty of the Redbirds' shots did touch tion in his story on the backpage. 
pointed out that many of the Notre Dame players haven't experienced winning consistently at the college level. 
"The guys who are leaders now weren't around to see the guys who won all the time," Larkin said. "The best record the seniors have had was 7·5." 
The coaching often was ques­tioned by players. One said the players are missing the basics of blocking and tackling. Others said opponents' play selections are less predictable than Notre Dame's. 
"I think we've been tricked; I think we've been outskilled," Larkin said. "The other teams score so many points on us. I think first (it's) because our offense is not on the field as long as their offense, and also because their plays are less obvious 
Happy Birthday Laura Toppin 
Buy Observer birthday ads 
than our plays. They do things that surprise us." 
Faust said the team's major problems have involved execution, not play selection. 
"Play-calling is important, but S<>metimes I think it's a little overrated," Faust said. "It's execu· tion that makes a play go or a defense go." 
Before the season began, Faust told his players not to worry about his future. But players said they feel bad that they haven't performed bet· terfor him. 
"His whole life is at stake, his welfare," lineman Eric Dorsey said. "So much is based on whether we win or lose .... You've got to worry about it because you've grown close to Coach Faust. You really care about what happens to him." 
Two More Days before 100 Law School Reps. Descend upon Notre Dame 

applications Informal discussion LSAT Information 
Wed. Oct.16 11 am-3pm 
Stepan Center 
The Law Caravan 

ran for two touchdowns and passed ,-----------------------------...... 
AVIATION CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
Apply now for a permanent, U.S. Gov't. (Civil Service) position as an Air Traffic Control Specialist. More than 2,000 openings nationwide. Three different specialties. Prestige careers with medical, retirement benefits plus paid vacations. Entry-level applicants will start at $17,824 per year and could advance to as much as $45,000 per year. Aviation experience not necessary. If selected you will be trained at Gov't. expense. Aptitude test required. 3 yrs. general work exp. or 4 yrs. college, or combination. Send your name, address on postcard before Nov. 30, 1985 to: FAA, AAC-80/239, Box 26650, Oklahoma City, OK 73126. EOE. 
Neal AnderS<>n rushed for 160 .----------------------------­
What makes 





Mondayspecial? 
One call, three friends ••• and our s7.99 Monday special. 
One call to DOMINO'S PIZZA~> gets you our Monday special­a 16-fnch, single topping pizza for just $7.99.1t's a great way to get together with three other students and enjoy a hot, custom-made pizza for about 
$2each~ 
And Domino's Pizza Delivers® Free. In 30 minutes or less, or you get $3 off your order. 
So ,..ake Monday special with our $7.99 Monday special. It's available all evening every Monday. Only from Domino's Pizza". 
Call us: 
2n-21s1 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
Our dnvers·carry less than $20 00 No coupon nec~ssary. Just request the Monday special "16-tnch ptzza generally serves 3-5 people. Limited delivery ~rea. c 1985 Oomtno's Ptzza,lnc. 

DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS® FREE. 





~~~C3l~------------------------------------------M__ __
o_n_d_a_y,_oct.o.b•e•r•1•4•,•1•9•8•5---p-a.g.e.l-5 Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side 
Zeto Kevin Walsh 
'lou KNOW WHAT THE" RATIO OF GIRS TO 6tRJ..S. I ME"AN, A GIRL WALJ<S INTO A ROOM AND 



TWENTY 6U'IS TRV TD 
HIT ON HE"Rf 

ACROSS 1 Pitching mound 5 Reared 9 Memory 
13 Volcanic 
output 14 Priggish one 15 Egg-shaped 16 Gulnneaa 17 Jogs the 
memory 19 Gamebird 21 Eats 22 Uses an auto 23 Chaney of 
films 24 Briny 27 Waist bouquet 31 Entreat 32 Chubby 34 Once around 
the track 35 Short jacket 36 --garde 37 Aureole 38 Level to poets 39 Catkin 40 Clocked 
C>1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 10/14/85
Friday's Solution 

41 Idealist  An Righls Reserved  
43 Scat!  
44 Oozed  8-Plaines  
45 Religious  9 Harbingers  
scroll  of spring  
47 Mythical  10 Kiln  
strongman  11 Narratlon  
50 Beaulllul  12 House  
model  additions  
54 Finances a  14 Sell-esteem  
prospector  18 Love greatly  
56 Singer Adams  20 Peel  
57 Balustrade  23 Misplaced  
58 Prevent  24 Celerity  
59 Can. prov.  25 Revise  
60 Church section  26 Sierra­ 
61 Crooked  27 Penny  
62 Fume  28 Tex. shrine  
29 Ancient Gr.  
DOWN  physician  
1 HIt with the  30 Lyric poem  10/14/85  
palm  32 Finished  42 Fit for  48 Snare  
2 Tra­ 33 Prohibit  farming  49 San -Obispo  
3 State  36 Prayer ending  43 Fr. port  SO Grotto  
positively  37 State of  45 Sign  51 Loafing  
4 Camel  Intense  46 Out In the  52 Ceremony  
5 June VIP  activity  open  53 Give out a  
6 Ladder parts  39 Hoard  47 Site of Taj  secret  
7 Rim  40 Rip  Mahal  55 Bill  

L.l. Clull Bus 


"I just can't tell from here .... That could either be our flock, another flock, or just a bunch of little m's." 
Campus 
•6:30 
P.M. · Party, AIESEC Paint The Office Party, Room 232 Cushing Hall 

•7:00 
P.M. · Informad.onal Meeting, Notre Dame/St. Mary's London and Rome Summer Programs, Professor A.R. Black, St. Mary's Col· lege, Carroll Hall (St. Mary's) 

•7:30 
P.M. · Meeting, STAR WARS Space Defense, LaFortune Student Center Uttle Theater, Sponsored by Notre Dame L-5 Society 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Braised Short Ribs Veal Madeline Chicken Pot Pie Beef Pot Pie Cheese Ravioli Com Dogs 
Spidano Romano Sandwich 


TV Tonight 
6:00P.M.  16  Nc:wsCenter 16  9:00P.M.  34  The:  Brain:  "The:  Enllghtc:nc:d 
zz  22 EyeWitness News  Machine"  
6:30P.M.  16  MASH  10:00 P.M.  16  Nc:wsCc:ntc:r 16  
zz  Three:' Company  zz  22 Eyc:Witnc:Sil News  
7:00P.M.  16  TV's  Blooper's  and  Practical  34  War In the West: Management  
Jokes  ofFc:dc:rai Lands  
zz  Scarecrow and Mrs. King  10:30 P.M.  16  Tonight Show  
28  Hardcastle: and McCormick  zz  Remington  Stc:c:lc:/CBS  late:  
46  Fall Telethon  Movie:: "Great Catherine:"  
8:00P.M.  16  Monday Night  at  the:  Movies:  
"Silent Witness"  ll:OOP.M.  28  Nc:wswatch 28  
22  Kate: and Allie:  34  Body Electric  
28  NFL  Monday  Night  Football:  '  ll:30P.M.  16  David Lc:ttc:nnan Show  
Miami at New York Jets  28  ABC News Nightllnc:  
34  Wonder Work: "Konrad"  34  Film Du Jour: "Thunder In the:  
8:30P.M.  22  CBS Special: The:  19th Annual  City"  
Country  Music  Association  IZ:30A.M.  16  Allin the Family  
Award  1:00A.M.  zz  Nlghtwatch  

The SAB Presents: 

Monday, October 14, 1985 -page 16


S~orts 

Home's not sweet 
Volleyball team loses two 
By CHUCK FREEBY the North Star Conference, putting Sports Writer them in second place behind DePaul. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team Most importantly, though, the begins a six-match road trip next losses showed Notre Dame still has Friday, and it probably couldn't be plenty to work on this season. The happier. young Irish squad has been inconsis­
Maybe it's the dining hall food, tent all year, and this weekend cer­maybe it's the ethanol, but someth­tainly gave no indication of that ing certainly bothers the Irish when changing. they play at home. Notre Dame Notre Dame Head Coach Art Lam­remained winless at the ACC this bert certainly wasn't pleased with season, dropping two matches over his team's performance, but he still the weekend. held hope for the remainder of the 
On Friday evening, Butler broke 1985 campaign. Notre Dame's four-match winning "We're certainly not about to give streak, upsetting the Irish, 12-15, 1 5-up," said Lambert after Saturday's 13, 9-15, 15-6, 15-13. On Saturday, loss. "This team has the potential to Midwestern power Illinois State be good, and we're just going to disposed of the Irish properly, win­have to work hard to make ourselves ning in straight games, 15-3, 15-6, a good team." 15-9. Indeed, Notre Dame showed 
The losses hurt the Irish for a glimmers of hope Saturday night number of reasons, not the least of against the powerful Redbirds. It Cedric Figaro (48) helps Tony Furjanic pull Szymanski features Figaro, a versatile outside which is they dropped Notre Dame's was "School Night" at the ACC, as record to 6-10. Furthermore, the
down Michigan State tailback Lorenzo White (34) linebacker, in his story onpage 12. in Notre Dame Stadium earlier this season. Mike see VOLLEYBALL, page 11
Butler loss moved the Irish to 3-1 in 
Men's tennis team wins Irish Fall Invitational Tournament 
By MICHAEL KEEGAN on Saturday, the Irish played the weather cooperated for the af­should be played. Unfortunately, Il­at the Courtney Tennis Center when Sports Writer Evansville, while the other two ternoon session. Notre Dame played linois State did most of the teaching, Notre Dame met Oral Roberts for teams in the tournament, Oral Illinois State while Oral Roberts unleashing a blistering attack. the championship. Both teams were 
If there was any doubt as to just Roberts University and Illinois State, played Evansville. It didn't take long for the Red­undefeated. how good the Notre Dame men's met. Notre Dame continued to be im­birds, as they took an 8-0 lead For the Irish, this proved to be a tennis team would be this year, it The Irish easily defeated pressive as the l~ish crushed the quickly, mainly on the spiking ofhit­tough match. After the singles had was disspelled this weekend as the Evansville, 5-2, with two singles Redbirds, 8-1. Strong performances ters Chris Rehor and Tracy Stroyan. finished, both teams were tied at Irish started fast and never slowed matches being called off because of were turned in by Joe Nelligan, The Irish looked exceptionally fiat, three matches apiece. down on their way to capturing the the abbreviated schedule caused by Brian Kalbas, and Paul Daggs. and never got on track in game one. Nelligan and Reiter posted 1985 Irish Fall Invitational Tourna­the weather. In the top three singles Nelligan, the senior captain, For that matter, they never got straight set victories for the Irish, ment. spots, Brian Kalbas was defeated by defeated Jim Postol, 6-4, 6-I. Kalbas much of anything going in game while Daggs fought to a three-set 
The team was impressive as it won Dan Flannigan, 6-2, 6-3, Tim Carr gained his first victory of the day by two, which proved to be a near car­victory. The match was to be all three matches and showed a good easily won for the Irish defeating stopping Jan Symmonds, 6-3, 6-4. bon copy of game one. This time Il­decided by the doubles teams. mix of bqth young and veteran Brian Poynter, 6-2, 6-2, and Dan Daggs coasted by Rob Gurolick, 6-4, linois State bolted to a 6-0 lead, and The team ofWalsh-Daggs scored a talent. Walsh scored the second point for 6-4. was satisfied to trade points with the decisive victory for the Irish by 
"I was very optimistic as to how Notre Dame by beating Dick Water­In addition to the strong singles Irish the rest ofthe way. defeatingJoiner-Gochnour, 6-4, 6-2. good the team would be," said Head fall, 7-6,6-3. play, the doubles combinations Notre Dame looked ready to make The second team of Carr-Reiter, Coach Tom Fallon. "I know that the In the following matches with swept their three matches to com­a move in game three. Hitter Karen after losing the first set, came on and team received a boost ofconfidence Evansville, Paul Daggs won, as did plete a dominating performance. Sapp began to connect on some captured the final two sets, defeating with their strong play. We still need the double teams of Carr-Reiter and "The team played extremely spikes, and an enthusiastic crowd of the Sommerfield-Dubit team. This improvement in a lot of areas, but I Walsh-Daggs. well," said freshman Kalbas. 387 roared its approval as the Irish match decided the tournament, as feel that the team will do very well in In the other match, Oral Roberts "Everyone, whether they won or gained a 9-5lead. the Irish added their fifth match win the spring season, which begins in coasted to a 5-1 victory over Illinois lost, gave all they had. The final The two teams quickly reverted and squeaked by Oral Roberts. March." State. scores showed this." to form, however, as the Irish con­
Forced indoors by morning rain The four teams moved outside as Play concluded Sunday at 10 a.m. tinued to make mental errors. With see IRISH, page 10 
Four games rained out Saint Mary's tennis team
but Irish win one game 


beats Taylor
By MARlY STRASEN get good competition in the fall, but 
Sports Writer we played the best teams we pos­sibly could. We gave a number of 


out of rain

While the Notre Dame baseball games away, and I can honestly say team was washed out of four of five that there was no team we played By CHRISTINE FORTIN games this weekend and beaten in that was better than us. Sports Writer 11 of the 16 scheduled in the fall, "We had problems this fall in most head coach Larry Gallo said he is not areas -shoddy defense, poor pitch­Saturday morning's rain did not 
about to give up on his squad. ing, and not getting the big hits dampen the spirit ofthe Saint Mary's "I equate the fall season to spring when we needed them. Sometimes tennis team. The Belles took their training," Gallo said. "I play a num­we just weren't ready to play." · talent and team spirit indoors to ber of different people in a number But with all the trouble spots on defeat Taylor University, 6-3. 
of different positions and try a lot of the team, the spring season is a The four winning singles players things." winter away, and things can be for the Belles beat their opponents Friday night was no exception, as turned around in a hurry. The Irish in two sets while the two winning 
the Irish played their freshmen and will face a difficult schedule, and doubles teams won in three sets. sophomores in an unofficial must put out a much more consis­
Winning singles matches for the
scrimmage against Glen Oaks at Jake tent effort on all fronts. According to Belles were No. 1 Anne Dimberio, 6­Kline Field. Notre Dame opened up Gallo, developing a solid defense is 0, 6-1; No.3 Kim Drahota, 6-2, 6-2; a five-run lead early in the game and the key. 
No. 4 Heather Temofeew, 6-4, 7-6;hung on to post a 9-8 victory. "We cannot afford to give any and No. 6 Charlene Szajko, 6-4, 6-1. 

A Saturday doubleheader against team five or six outs," he explained. Southwest Michigan and a Sunday "We've got to play good fundamen­The winning doubles teams were twinbill at Valparaiso were then tal defense. Our outfield ·started off the No. 2 team of Shaun Boyd and postponed because of rain. Accord­looking really poor, but they've Temofeew, 3-6,6-4,6-3 and the No. ing to Gallo, the games against come around in the last few games 3 team of Sheila Campbell and Southwest Michigan might be res­and played well together. The whole Drahota, 6-2, 2-6,6-3. cheduled for Wednesday. defense has to be consistent, though, 
Whether or not the unofficial and they realize they have a long "Taylor is a hard school to play," games are played, Notre Dame con­way togo." Belles Head Coach Debbie Laverie cludes its fall season with a disap­Despite the rough fall season, the said. "The girls who lost, lost in close pointing 5-11 record against weaker road to playing better baseball might matches, and the girls who won,

competition than they will see in the  not be a long one for the young Irish  Sophomore bitterKathleen Morin and the rest ofthe Notre Dame  played very well. They were all con·  
coming spring.  team. A number of talented young  volleyball team bad a tough time in the ACC this weekend. Chuck  centrating and they kept their heads.  
"I'm definitely not pleased with  Freebybas details ofthe latest two Irish losses in his story at the top  
our record," Gallo said. "It's hard to  see BASEBALL, page 12  ofthispage.  see BELLES, page 12  







