
'Barefoot in the Park' -page 8 

VOL XIX, NO. 119 the independent student newspaper serving notre Jame and saint mary's FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 1985 

Hellwig inaugurates Center for Spirituality with theological speech 
By ELLYN MASTAKO prophetically, evaluating what is, by News Staff the light ofwhat ought to be." Addressing the issue of compas­
One of America's foremost wo­sion, Hellwig said, "Throughout the man theologians, Monika Hellwig, ages we have tried and failed to inaugurated Saint Mary's Center for name that quality that assures us of Spirituality last night. the divinity of Jesus. In our times, 
Hellwig's talk was the first in the perhaps the most important and in­annual Madeleva Lecture series. She clusive ofthese is the quality ofcom­said, "The series here initiated is passion. dedicated to a great woman, Sister "We may even say, that as we Madel eva ofthe Congregation ofthe come to terms with the person and Holy Cross, and it is the intent of all the message of Jesus in our own that is done in her name that other lives, compassion comes to be more Christian women should come tc clearly at the center ofwhat Christi­know and to realize their own po· anity is supposed to be, and com­tential for greatness." monly fails to be," said Hellwig. 
"One of the most important "When we look back over what is foundations for a true personal known of the lives of outstanding spirituality is an unhurried, calm Christian women, it is clear that a non-violent, but fearlessly radical central and powerful driving force critique ofthe sex-role definitions oJ that motivated them all was this kind one's own society in the light of the ofcompassion," Hellwig said. Christian vocation," said Hellwig. Regarding solidarity as a part of 
Hellwig spoke of four important spirituality, Hellwig spoke of com­points with regard to spirituality, passion issues in solidarity, and the prayer, compassion, solidarity, and manner by which redemption creative imagination. results from solidarity. ',T
·:.r·
"Christian life has at all times been "If sin is the centering of private ~~-. '<­marked as a life of prayer," said Hel­projects to the disregard of what 
The <>I>Krver/CUol Gala
Like the blind feeding the blind 
•
lwig. "But for long centuries of our these do to other people, and with 
Aspart ofthe Notre Dame ETZgineerlng Olympics, close tonight with an ice cream social in
history, prayer was seen primarily as consequences of feuds and wars, 
freshman Anne Sopic feeds classmate Greg Barron Fitzpatrick Hall. Half ofthe proceeds ofthe social 
a way of withdrawing from engage­oppression and needless suffering, 
in the doughnut eating contest. The week comes to will go to the Millions Against MS Drive.
ment in human affairs and the dilem­fear, violence, and chaos, then mas and tragedies and redemption is the process of un­responsibilities ofhuman society. doing all this by the reconstruction "That is certainly not the kind of of a society, a world, a network of 

Judicial Council picks coordinator 
prayer called for in our times. relationships that respect the By MARKS. PANKOWSKI judicial board system, believing this "That problem can be solved by
Clearly, our prayer should be such solidarity of the human race as News Staff step could be begun through a series making council members aware of
that it does not evade the ultimate created and destined by God," she Christian demand which is that ol said. ofworkshops. their responsibilities and by being charity. This is a dynamic function oJ "In our own society, and often un­Karen Ingwersen, former assistant Her other goals include reviewing more organized at the beginning of prayer: to give rise to a more com· der secular auspices, there have 
coordinator of the Judicial Council, the by-laws of the council, improv­the semester," she said. pletely, less exclusively or was elected the new judicial coord­ing the student Judicial Council Ingwersen, who praised the work
been and continue to be all manner selectively loving world," said Hel­of movements for 'sisterhood,' that inator at last night's meeting. handbook, enhancing the relations ofMcDowell, cited another problem lwig. is the experience of solidarity, com­
Ingwersen succeeds Tim between the council and the admin­the previous council faced. "This She said, "But it is the function of munity, and mutual support among McDowell in her new position. istration, and expanding the current year's Judicial Council had three co­prayer to enable us to see propheti­Ingwersen's first and foremost Legal Service Commission. ordinators which created a problem cally, to be prophetic and to act see HELLWIG, page 3 goal is to establish a more cohesive because, except for Tim 

ND graduate named Miss Illinois, moves on to Miss USA pageant 
ByJEFF NIEKELSKI 
Chicago. She will be on the guest News Staff panel of the Easter Seals Telethon 
on Sunday, March 31. 
There will be more than Bob Bach said competing in a Barker's singing to look forward beauty contest has always been a to in the Miss USA pageant this desire. "It's something I've always year. Laura Bach, a 1984 graduate wanted to do since I was a child. I of Notre Dame, will compete in would have regretted it the rest of the pageant as Miss Illinois. my life if I didn't try,'' she said. 
Chosen from among 125 wo­"I kept my entry a secret from 
men in the Illinois contest, Bach my friends and never dreamed of 
won the right to compete at the winning, but suddenly I was alone 
May 13 pageant to be held in on the stage with a crown on my 
Lakeland, Fla. head," Bach said. 
She also won a full-length mink Bach will be leaving on April 1 7 
Laura Bach 
coat and a trip to Italy. for a two week promotional stint 
At Notre Dame, Bach majored in New York, and will then travel in marketing and was a member of "My weekends are spent to the Miss USA Pageant. the cheerleading squad. She is rehearsing with my manager for "IfI get to the finalists, I'm sure now a marketing representative the Miss USA Pageant. I work on that Bob Barker will mention for IBM in a Chicago suburb. poise in walking, as well as com­something about my attending 
Bach said she is busy trying to ing across clearly in interviews," Notre Dame. A lot of exciting juggle her many responsibilities she said. things, like cheerleading and ap­as Miss Ilinois, which include Bach recently appeared on "PM pearing with Bob Hope last year, many interviews and modeling Magazine" and did an interview happened to me during my four sessions. for the Cablevision network of years there." 
Besides outlining her goals for the (McDowell), they didn't have the future, Ingwersen described one of time, or really the interest, to make the problems the council presently the council grow as a council," she faces, and suggested a way to solve 
said. 
it. 
McDowell, who plans to remain "A lot of council members don't 
associated with the council in the realize when they take the job as 
future, expressed his confidence in judicial board commissioner in their Ingwersen. dorms, what is entailed by a seat on In addition to her experience as the council, so they don't realize assistant coordinator, Ingwersen has what their responsibilities are,'' she served as Walsh Hall's judicial com­said. missioner the past two years. 
East Race Waterway hosts 
U.S. kayak team tryouts 
By MIRIAM HILL that gives them a leg up on other Copy Editor countries' teams." "It's the only artificial whitewater 
Kayakers competing for a spot on course in North America. In fact, the 1985 U.S. Whitewater Team will there are only three like ours in the be paddling to South Bend's East entire world," Dobski said. Race Waterway for team trials on Because the East Race is unique, it April 27 and 28. will continue to, be a center for 
Those kayakers chosen for the whitewater competitions in the team will represent the United United States, Dobski said. The States at the World Games in raceway will be used as a site for the Augsburg, Germany. 1987 Pan Am Games held in In­
Mikki Dobski, director of South dianapolis, if whitewater kayaking is Bend's Office of Community Affairs, an event, she said. said the East Race offers the U.S. Dobski said the East Race was kayakers "the opportunity to train originally constructed as part of a on a waterway similar to what they'll be competing on in Augsburg, and see KAYAK, page4 

The Observer Friday, March 29, 1985-page 2 


In Brief 
Marc Chagall, one of the leading painters of the 20th century, died at his home in the French Riviera village ofVence last night, his wife announced. He was 97. His wife said he collapsed approximately 8 p.m. and died almost immediately. The exact cause of death was not immediately known. "I want to introduce into my pictures a psychic shock ... a fourth dimension," he once said. "llterefore, let people cease talking about fairy tales, of the fantastic, ofChagall the flying painter, when they speak of me. 
"I don't understand Chagall at all," he told an interviewer shortly before his 90th birthday. "All I know is that one understands only what one loves." -AP 
Of Interest 
The South Bend Symphony Orchestra 
will present a concert tomorrow night at 8 in South Bend's Morris Civic Auditorium. Kenneth Kiesler will conduct the program, which will include "Fanfare" from La Peri by Dukas and Prelude a l'apres midi d'un faune by Debussy. ·The Observer 
A general meeting ofCILAwill be held sunday night at 9 in the Center for Social Concerns. All are invited by the Community for the Lay Apostulate. ·The Observer 
Students who left their bicycles in storage for the winter can pick them up at Gate 14 of the stadium Saturday and Sunday afternoons from 4:30 unti16. Students are reminded to bring their receipts. · The Observer 
The French Club is sponsoring a creperie tonight from 9 to I a.m. in Badin Hall. All are welcome. · The Observer 
Carl Anderson, special assistantto the u.s. 
president for fo~mily policy, will deliver a lecture titled "llte Legislative and Judicial Decline of the Family Unit · A Short Path to Poverty," Monday at noon in Room 101 of the Notre Dame Law School. Anderson, a lawyer, served on the sta.IJ ofthe undersecretary of the Department of Health and Human Services before joining the White House sta.IJ in 1983. The talk is sponsored by the Notre Dame 
Law School's ThomasJ. White Center on Law and Government. · The Observer 
The Loras College Concert Choir of 
Dubuque, Iowa, will be appear in concert tomorrow night at 8 in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum ofArt. The 4 5 member ensemble, directed by John Broman, is on a spring tour. Their ap­pearance at the state convention of the Iowa Music Educators Asso­ciation earlier this year was taped for an early April airing on public radio. The concert is free ofcharge to the public and is sponsored by the Notre Dame department ofmusic. · The Observer 
A mandatory meeting for anyone interested in running for hall president or vice president at Saint Mary's will be held in 304 Haggar College Center at 8 p.m. on both Sunday and Monday. Students can attend either meeting. ·The Observer 
Jose Napoleon Duarte,]totre Dame's 1985 com­mencement speaker, will be featured on ' 60 Minutes" Sunday at 7 
p.m. on Channel 22. · The Observer 

Weather 
It's almost April? Yes there is a chance of snow tonight. Enjoy. A 30 percent chance of showers today with highs in the up­per 40s. A 40 percent chance of rain or light snow tonight and tomorrow with lows in the mid 30s and highs near 40. -AP 
The~­
Design Editor................. Maureen Murphy 
Design Assistant ..................... Alex Peltzer 
T)l/>eSt!tters ................................ Vic Guarino 
1be Obolen-er (USPS 599 2-400o) is 
BiU Highducheck published Monday through Friday and 
News Editor .............................Jane Kcavclk on home football Saturdays, except Copy Editor......................Ondy Rauldtorst during exam and vacation periods. lbe 
SportsCopyEditor....................... Phll Wolf Obeen-er15 published by the students of 
Yit!wpoint Copy Editor .........John Hrasly the UnJverslry of Notre Dame and Salnr 
Vit!wpoint Layout........... Marld Labrador Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 
F«>lllres Copy Editor...............Sam Moore purchased for 130 per year ( S20 per se­
F«>lllres Layout ...................Andi Schnuck mester) hy wrlllng The~. P.O. 
NO Day Editor ...................... Mark Winters Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
SMCDay Editor....... ; ...... Toni Rutherford 1be Obeen-er 15 a member of The 
AdOestgn ............................ )ohn O'Connor .uaodated Press. All rrproducllon 
Kevin Murphy rights are reserved. Pbotograpbt!r ............................ Carol Gales 





Sorry, if you've got Infonet you've got the wrong number 
At the beginning ofJanuary, I received a Max long· 
distance calling card promising to reduce my phone 
bills and provide dependable and efficient service. After 
opening the envelope and hastily examining the con­
tents, I threw it into my deskdrawer, where it has rested 
in an oblivion of useless papers and old letters ever 
since. 
Not that I was particularly enamored with our In· 
fonet phone system. On the contrary, I had spent in­
numerable hours throughout the year hassling with a 
number which decided to fail when I absolutely needed 
to call home (a situation which still arises at least twice 
a week), and with bills that contained calls to such ex­
otic cities as Peoria and Toledo. 
After I overcame my initial indignation at even being associated with these cities. I settled back into my ac­customed apathetic state, paid the incorrect bills, and promised myself that some day I would clean out my drawer and use the Max card. 
Several recent events, 
access to however, have exacerbated 
But r dot~'+ hiOkl Myehte. il'l Peori~ ! system, and the University 
my patience with lnfonet to forbids outgoing collect such an extent that I just phone calls, we're stuck. might start rummaging. 
Now I know it might be Recently, my number was hard to comprehend any inactivated ... again. I called problems with the Infonet the campus Infonet office system. Even I, in my and finally got through after naivete, once believed the a three-day busy signal new numbers would correct (caused, no doubt, by the all the abuses of the Indiana tremendous influx of stu· Bell calling cards. And dent complaint calls). The besides, the push button Infonet office then told me phones were so pretty. I to call the main office. That thought that lnfonet would would have been fine, ex­provide the type of com­cept I can't make the call. It's petent service that Indiana long-distance and my num­Bell never seemed to ber doesn't work. 
produce. J·Z1 After talking to other stu-
I soon discovered my er­ror. It was the first time I used the new system. Dialing the phone number, I waited for the mandatory clicks. With fingers trembling in excitement, I punched in my number. A click. Then ... nothing. 
That was the first of my problems with lnfonet. We were told the system was experiencing the usual kinks associated with its incipience. We were told to be pa­tient. We were told things would improve with time. 
Ofcourse, they didn't. 
New developments complicated old problems. Once the numbers actually worked, the connection became unclear and static marred all calls. Still, I did not com­plain. After all, I thought, it might be asking a little too much to have a normal conversation not punctuated by "What was that? I'm sorry, but I can't hear you." Infonet was, after all a phone service. I had no right to expect to actually be able to hear my conversations. Just to be connected should have been enough. And so I waited. 
And then came the bills, those masterpieces ofmath-
Co•••nkllflon • The•fi'ft FU.• •••••hit• lndlv. adma.ion $2.50 
'1\tes. Apr. 2 i"ri, Mar. 29 Mon. Apr. 1 lobert Al'bnan 'a Stanley Kubrick' e Vittorio De Sica' a touching Images (1972) The Shinins (1980) Garden of the Finzi-Continil (197l) iiitchCock-like su.a-pense, A &pine-tingling, chilling tale ot horror Wfilller of the Ac&deJey' Awat'd for a. me.merizing, psychologlc:al til.m 
With Susannah York 

Mary Heilman 
Assistant News Editor 
ematical genius that accuse one of owing millions in 
back payments. I enjoyed the last hatch, which con­tained nasty little notes offering a choice: pay within I 0 days or suffer a terrible fate · the invalidation of your lnfonet number. Hardly a potent threat. I laughed, but still couldn't shake my lethargy long enough to act. 
The final straw, however, was the fact that one cannot make overseas calls using our wonderful little system. After trying in vain for a half hour to contact Ireland, I was told by a bored voice: "Sorry. Can't be done." And since we no longer have Indiana's AT&T 
dents, I realize I am rather late with this diatribe on Infonet. Most students have already cancelled their numbers, and are now enjoying hassle-free phone service. I feel foolish for hanging in with incompetence for so long. So, if you'll excuse me, I think I'm going to clean out that drawer. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpoint page. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Observer staff. 
communteAIIOfl 
G. IHfRIRf 

The Observer 

The Observer/Carol Gales 
demonstrates her technique in the Notre Dame art building. 
Vietnamese student found guilty 
Associated Press 
SANTA ANA, Calif. -A judge found a Vietnamese student guilty of in· voluntary manslaughter yesterday in the shooting death of a university professor who worked with refugees from Vietnam. 
Minh Van Lam was convicted of killing Edward Lee Cooperman, a California State University-Fullerton physics professor who was one of the first Americans to visit Hanoi after the Vietnam War. 
Orange County Superior Court Judge Richard Beacom returned the verdict in Lam's non-jury retrial, which followed a mistrial last month. Beacom scheduled sentenc­ing for May 17. 
The first trial of the 21-year-old Lam ended with a deadlocked jury. Lam, who agreed to let the judge decide the case without a jury, in­sisted Cooperman was shot acciden­tally in his office on the university campus last Oct. 13. 
Beacom, who presided over Lam's first trial, reviewed the transcripts of the first trial yesterday morning. During the afternoon, he h<>:ard tes­timony from a defense witness who did not testify during the first trial and arguments from opposing attor­neys before he reached his verdict. 

en 
0 
• •• !c
:EN 
0~ 
CD. 
Getting through college isn't easy. But help is on the way. Because Domino's Pizza is offering you financial assistance on your next pizza. The Pizza made with 100% natural cheeses and fresh, not frozen toppings. And we'll deliver it, custom-made, to your door in 30 minutes or less. GUARANTEED. Call Domino's Pizza and help yourself to the best tasting pizza around. 
DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERS™ FREE. 
Now open at 11om for LUNCH 

$2.00 off any • 16"-2item pizza. _ Offer good at
Ill
· listed locations. ·Good Fri., Sat., & Sun. 
L1m1ted delivery area. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00 1984 Dom•no's P•zza. Inc
L-·----------------------------~ 
Friday, March 29, 1985-page 3 
New Ml) test devised, spots disease carriers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The first reliable test for the most common kind of mus­cular dystrophy can diagnose the disease in a fetus as early as the eighth week ofpregnancy and iden­tify mothers who are carriers, a new study says. 
The disease, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, affiicts 50,000 to 100,000 American boys and young men who will not survive beyond their 20s, according to the Muscular Dystrophy Association in New York. 
The test is not foolproof, and es­timates of its accuracy vary. The most optimistic of the test's developers, Egbert Bakker, puts its accuracy at 99 percent and says it can be used in 95 percent offamilies in which the illness has appeared. 
Bakker, of the Department of Human Genetics in Leiden, The Net­herlands, is one of 16 doctors and scientists from five countries who are reporting the development of the test in the current issue of The Lancet, a leading British medical journal. 
Another of the researchers, Kay Davies ofthe John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, England, is more conser­vative. She estimates the test is 96 percent accurate and can be used in 70 percent of families known to be at risk. 
Nevertheless, she and other re­searchers interviewed by The Asso­
. ciated Press expect that within six months to a year the test will be 100 percent accurate in nearly all families. Prenatal diagnosis of this illness, which has previously been impossible; "clearly is possible now," said Donald Wood, associate director for research at the Muscular Dystrophy Association, in a tele­phone interview yesterday. 
Hellwig 
continuedfrom page 1 
women. Even where such initiatives do not originate from Christian spirituality, we need to recognize them for what they are -in their own ways redemptive, in their own ways allies to the Christian task," she said. 
With regard to women's roles in the history of the Catholic Church, Hellwig told of the Church fathers who thought it important to open Christian scholarship to women in the interests of a truly Christian spirituality. 
"There was a certain tension be­tween the continuous theological discourse of the scholastics from which women were almost systema­tically excluded, and the lively and . colorful devotional traditions and strands of spiritual theology in which women such as the German nuns, the Flemish and English mys­tics and the Italian Catherines played very active roles. 
"These women are to us more ad­
mirable than imitable, precisely be­
cause we, as contemporary women, 
are not excluded from the 
"It's still an experimental ap­proach," he said. "The success looks good, but occasionally you can be fooled." 
One problem, he said, is that one­third of muscular dystrophy cases arise from genetic mutations in indi­viduals who do not come from families with a history ofthe disease. 
While testing for muscular dystrophy is not yet widely available, Bakker and Davies said they are now beginning to test wo­men. 
In the United States, Dr. Samuel Latt of Children's Hospital in Boston is preparing to begin testing, said the hospital's Louis Kunkel, one of the authors of the new study. 
The test relies on the determina­tion of a genetic "fingerprint" char­acteristic ofeach family. 
In many families, this "fingerprint" will be found only in males with muscular dystrophy and in female carriers. It is produced by 
normal  genetic  variations  called  
restriction  fragment  length  
polymorphisms.  

Entire families, including a mem· ber with muscular dystrophy, must be tested to spot the fingerprint. Ge­netic material is extracted from the blood and analyzed using a variety of techniques. 
In a fetus, doctors can obtain a ge­netic sample using amniocentesis or the newer procedure called chorionic biopsy, allowing diagnosis as early as the eighth week of preg­
nancy. 
In a matter ofmonths or perhaps a year, researchers expect to isolate the precise gene that is defective in muscular dystrophy, Then the test will be accurate 100 percent of the time in nearly all families, said 
Davies. 
mainstreams oftheology and there is 
therefore no reason to build a 
spirituality without explicit theological foundations. Yet the in­spiration of outstanding medieval women remains as fresh in our own times as it has been ever since their time," she said. 
In summing up the difference that Chpstian women can make in the troubled world, Hellwig referred to a new respect and freedom that wo­men enjoy in the public sphere. "Obviously, it offers more opportu­nity for more effective action and wider influence. But it also carries 
the temptation to look on the new 
openings simply as career opportu­
nities and occasions for self­
advancement, rather than looking 
upon them as matters of Christian 
vocations." 
According to Hellwig, it is a "combination of spiritual freedom and social opportunity and power which holds promise of a new and creative way of building bridges of reconciliation towards world peace, of restructuring the systems of soci­ety which impoverish and marginate the powerless, and of sowing seeds of unity and hope and salvation for the whole human race." 

Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
• 
Assistant Features Editor 

• 
Features Copy Editor 


Questions should be directed to Mary Healy at the Observer office (239-5313). Resumes and personal statements are due Tuesday, April2 at 5 p.m. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, La Fortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
--·--­
~-..---------~------------~..----~-----------------------·--­
The Observer Friday, March 29, 1985 -page 4 
Reagan tries to get budget support during speech at N.Y. stock market 

Erasmus Books
'1i [[]JJ i' 
1027 E. Wayne :If!!!~ ( Tues-Sun, noon-6 1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy Used & out of print books bought, sold, 
searched 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -President Reagan 
opened trading on the New York 
Stock Exchange yt.-sterday in a 
campaign-style trip to launch a res­
cue effort for his embattled budget. 
Adopting the jargon of Wall 
Street, where a bear market declines 
and a bull market rises, Reagan said if 
Congress adopts the tax overhaul 
and budget restraints he wants, "our 
economy will be free to expand to 
its full potential, driving the bears 
back into permanent hibernation." 
"lltat's our economic program for 
the next four years," Reagan said. 
"We're going to turn the bull loose." 
And with that, at thn:e seconds 
More degrees conferred onHesburgh 
Spedal to The Observer 
nuee additional honorary 
degrees have been presented to Fa­
ther Theodore Hesburgh, University 
president. 'lltree forthcoming 
degrees will bring his record l<>tal to 
106. 
H~sburgh received doctor oflaws degrees earlier this month from Car­roll College, Helena, Mont., and the College of Mount Saint joseph, Mount Saint Joseph, Ohio. He also received a doclOr of humane letters from Holy Family College, Philadel­phia. 
In May, he will be honored by 
three schools -Duke University, 
Durham, N.C., doctor ofhumane let­
ters; Christian Brothers College, 
Memphis, doctor ofhumanities; and 
St. Thomas University, Fredericton, 
New Brunswick, Canada, doctor of 
laws. 
In 1982 Hesburgh broke the "Guinness Book of World Records" mark for honorary degrees held by Herbert Hoover, who received 89. Last May Notre Dame surprised him with his IOOth honorary doctorate, a doctor oflaws degree. 
Kayak 
continuedfrom page 1 
riverfront cleanup program. By con­
tinuing to develop the riverfront, 
she said the city hopes to ac­complish two main goals. 
The first goal is to improve the area by building or restoring houses, offices, and retail shops. Secondly, the city will promote whitewater sports by encouraging spectators at the waterway. 
City planners also hope the raceway will increase tourism in South Bend by drawing conventions and vacationers to the area. 
In addition to hosting whitewater 
events, the raceway is open for 
public use from June 8 to Sept. 2. 
The East Race charges J I for a 1900 
foot long ride down the waterway. 
The waterway is open from 5:30 to 7:30 on Wednesday and lltursday evenings, from I 0 a.m. to I p.m. and 2 to '5 p.m. on Saturday, and from 1 to '5 p.m. on Sunday. 
Correction 
Because ofa reporting error in the March IS is..o;ue of llte Observer, the hometowns of two 198'5-86 WSND/WVFI Executive Board members were listed in­correctly. Pete Pranica, sports director, is from Sobieski, Wis., while News Director Vito Gagliardi is from Clark, N.J. Scott Kiley, of West Hempstead, N.Y., will be the 1985-86 director of production engineering for WSND/WVFI. 
before I 0 a.m., he pushed a button 
to ring the bell that traditionally 
opens frantic stock trading on the 
floor of the exchange. Traders jam­
ming the floor below chanted, 
"Ronnie! Ronnie! Ronnie!" 
In a later speech at St. John's Uni­
versity, the president reiterated his 
willingnes..o; to compromise with 
Congress in "non-critical areas" of 
defense spending. But he gave no 
ground on proposals to slash domes­
tic spending, saying he wants to limit 
student financial aid to those "who 
couldn't get an education without it." 
In his remarks on Wall Street, Reagan lectured America's trading partners for failing to keep up with 
U.S. economic growth, saying other nations should "cut their own tax rates, spending and over-regulation and join us in opening up their markets to foreign competition." 
He compared the American eco­nomy to "a race horse that's begun to gallop in front of the field." 
"Other nations, hobbled by high tax rates and weighed down by 
oversized government spending, 
have been slow to catch up," he said. 
Acknowledging that "this has 
caused some painful dislocations, es­
pecially for America's exporting in­
dustries," Reagan argued that is no 
reason "to hamstring the American 
economy to make it drop back with 
the others." 
Dismissing suggestions that the strength of the U.S. dollar is hurting 
U.S. industry and America's allies, the president said, "The solution is for our trading partners to throw off the dead weight of government ... so that they can catch up with us in our race to the future." 
At St. John's, the Roman Catholic university in nearby Queens, Reagan responded with measured concilia­tion to congressional critics who have rejected his budget and called for trimming his defense build-up rather than making wholesale cuts in domestic programs, as the president wants. 
"At this point, it is a simple neces­sity to continue to bring our armed forces up to date," Reagan said. 
THE EARLY.~BIRD... __.~ .  
Classes starting April14  
LSAT Call Days Evenincs & WetklttMh 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135  


The Observer Friday, March 29, 1985 -page 5 
GE suspended from further USAF contracts 
Associated Press mission of fraud and criminal would have no immediate com­the impact of the suspension upon Those contracts included evecy­
offenses in connection with the per­ment. the national defense." thing ranging from washing 
WASHINGTON -The Air Force formance ofpublic contracts ... and In his letter, Orr said the suspen­Bill Caldwell, a Pentagon spokes­machines and light bulbs to nuclear announced yesterday it has tempo­adequate evidence of the making of sion will remain in effect "pending man, said Orr's letter to GE had been missile warheads and engines for the rarily suspended the General false statements," Orr wrote in a let­completion of the legal proceedings sent by certified mail yesterday but B-1 bomber and the F-14, F-15 and Electric Co. "from obtaining any ter toJohn Welch, the chairman and initiated by the indictment ... unless the secretary also had telephoned f. 16 fighter planes, as well as nu­new contracts with the Department chiefexecutive ofGE. sooner terminated by me in whole Welch directly before announcing clear reactors for submarines and of Defense." or in part." his action. aircraft carriers. 
"This suspension is based upon "Alternatively, the indictment Orr's letter made it clear that the Earlier in the day, it was disclosed 
the indictment returned by a federal provides adequate evidence of the He added GE will have up to 30 suspension would not affect existing that GE and the Pratt & Whitney grand jury in the U.S. District Court commission of offenses indicating a · days to submit "information and contracts. But the letter said the Division of United Technologies for the eastern district of Pennsylva­lack ofbusiness integrity or business argument in opposition to the suspension would apply not only to Corp. both had been asked by Orr to nia on Tuesday," Air Force Secretary honesty that seriously and directly suspension." new contracts but also to extensions refund more than $200 million in al­Verne Orr announced. affects General Electric's present re­or renewals ofexisting contracts. leged excess profits resulting from a Orr was referring to an indict­sponsibility as a government con­According to a Pentagon press GE and its subsidiaries received contract for spare jet engine parts. ment which alleges the nation's tractor or subcontractor. Upon statement, the Air Force will be will­more than S4.5 billion in military According to Jim Turner, a Pent­fourth largest defense contractor review of the indictment references ing "to consider the extent that the contracts in fiscal 1983, fourth agon spokesman, GE is the largest defrauded the government of ap­above, the Air Force has determined activity giving rise to the indictment among defense contractors, accor­defense contractor ever to face a proximately 5800,000 on a nuclear that immediate suspension action is . occurred within the corporate ding to the most recent statistics suspension on all new contracts. warhead system. necessary to protect the interests of structure; steps which General available from the Pentagon. Prelim­Pentagon officials said earlier this 
"This indictment constitutes the government," Orr said. Electric may take to safeguard inary figures indicate the firm did at week that GE is also believed to be grounds for suspension in that it pro­Mary McElveen, a GE spokes­against the possibility that such con­least as much business with the the largest defense contractor ever vides adequate evidence ofthe com-woman in Washington, said the firm duct might occur in the future, and Defense Department in fiscal 1984. charged in a criminal indictment. 
Increase in Japanese car imports may lower prices of cars 
Associated Press end of years of over-sticker prices Jackson, General Motors Corp. "The most recent softening was percent compared with 60 percent a 
charged to purchasers of the most spokesman. "What you're talking to GM's announcing an 8.8 percent in­year earlier. 
DETROIT -Sticker prices on new popular models. is a bunch ofanalysts who arepaid to terest rate, which is de facto a price Both Chrysler Corp. and the Ford cars likely won't plunge dramati-Robert Knoll, chiefofthe auto test speculate on things." decrease," Jouppi said. Motor Co. offered similar financing cally when the Japanese increase division of Consumer Reports, esti­Arvid Jouppi, a Detroit auto plans earlier. their exports to the United States by mated dealer premiums have in-analyst, said the price cuts began im­GM announced last week that it The first Japanese imports under 25 percent, but consumers will pay creased the price of the average car mediately after President Reagan an­was offering 8.8 percent financing the higher limits will likely reach the at least $1,000 less for cheaper by 51,000 to Sl,500. nounced the United States would ·on two lines ofsmall automobiles in U.S. market in May, Jouppi said. models, analysts predicted yester-"I don't think we're going to see a not press the Japanese to continue the face of a declining share of the Cheaper cars will mean more car day. reduction in prices right away;.:. voluntary limits on !mports. market, which had dropped to 53.4 buyers, Power said. 
"We see strong competition de· Knoll said. "I hope we're going to veloping at the low end," said ). see a reduction in the scalping of David Power, a California auto automobiles." 
Export drop wipes out import gain
analyst. Knoll said keeping sticker prices "The consumer is going to get high would help automakers give 
Associated Press stemmed from an 8 percent drop in Americans' appetite for cheaper im­cars that are very, very com-the appearance that they were hold­U.S. sales overseas, the biggest ports. petitively priced in the low end of ing the line on price increases. 
WASHINGTON -The United monthly plunge in exports since a Commerce Secretary Malcolm States suffered an $11.4 billion I 0.3 percent decline in January Baldrige, viewing the new trade fig­the market, and that will bring more "If you keep your list pri~es up, 
people into the car market," Power that makes it a lot easier to raise the 
foreign trade deficit last month as 1978. ures, predicted, "Further increases said in a telephone interview from price next year a modest amount 
the biggest drop in exports in seven in imports and higher trade deficits years wiped out a slight improve­Analysts blamed the big fall on the lie ahead." 
Westlake Village, Calif. and say you're doing wonderful For the first time in a dozen years, things in public," Knoll said. "If you ment in the flood of imports, the strong value of the dollar, which set "U.S. exporters continue to government s~d yesterday. almost daily records against other struggle with the handicapsPower said, the supply of cars for cut the price 3 percent now, then 
sale will be enough to satisfy the raise it 5 percent later, you're going 
currencies during much of imposed by the strongdollar, slower The Department of Commerce 
February. While it has declined growth abroad and by foreign im· said the merchandise trade deficit ­demand. to look like a dirty guy." 
about 6 percent in the past four port barriers," he said in a statement. 
the difference between what theThe new influx ofJapanese cars . The automakers themselves were weeks, it is still more than 40 per­The U.S. merchandise trade deficit an additional 450,000 a year under reluctant to talk about prices under 
United States imports from abroad 
cent higher than it was at the end of for 1984 hit a record S123.3 billion·the guidelines announced by the the new market conditions. 
and what it sells -,climbed 11.3 per­
1980. nearly double the 1983 imbalance ­
Japanese Ministry of International "We haven't voiced any ... price Trade and Industry · will mark the changes on this thing," said Harold cent in February after an even shar­A strong dollar makes U.S. goods and many analysts believe this year's 
per 28 percent jump in January. 
more expensive and thus harder to deficit will surge to between Sl40
***********************************
f NICK &KENNY'S a 
~ * 
: Friday &Saturday Night ~ ~ * ! ~ CRUISE CONTROL i* ~ ~ * 
~ ~ * 
~ * 
: 75 e Gin &Tonics ~ : Don't miss this great band ~ ~ * 
~ * 
: Open for lunch at 12:00 noon : ~ Free 12 oz beer with any purchase : 
\********************************** 

The deterioration last month sell overseas while increasing billion and Sl 50 billion. 
Attention Saint Mary's writers (sports and news) 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all Observer writers Tuesday, April 2 at 6:30 in 306 Haggar College Center. Anyone not able to attend should call Tess Guarino at 239-5313. All interested in writing are invited to attend. 
Engineering Week 
Class af !188 
Are ~ou eoneerned about soeiallifeat Notre Dame? 
Guide ~our own destin~! 
Become involved in Sophomore Class Government! 
Applications for the Sophomore Advisory Council are now available in the Student Government Offices on the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due back in the Student Government Offices by 1:00 p.m. on Wednesday, April 3. 
ACTIVATE OVll CLASS! GET INVOLVED! 
Treasure Hunt 
Clue 1: When found, this prize will be your crowning achievement. 
Clue 2: This clue is the right size for March 17th. 
Clue 3: To win, you will have 
to come perilously close to the forbidden fruit. 
Clue 4: You're getting dose, there's no reason to push the panic button.. 
Clue 5: To B or not to B. That is the clue yo.u will have to answer and the prize is yours. 
When you find the certificate, 
contact Mary George, x 3680. 
1 
Man liable for drinks, court says 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOUS · A Lafayette man who bought drinks for a woman who later struck and killed a jogger could be held financially liable for the death, the Indiana Court of Appeals ruled yesterday. 
The three-judge panel revived Susan Ashlock's wrongful death suit against Robert Norris for the death of her husband, overturning the summary judgment granted by Ben­ton Circuit Judge Perry Shipman in favor ofNorris. 
Court records show that Anthony 
Ashlock was jogging along Indiana 
26 in Lafayette on the evening of 
April 13, 1982 when he was struck 
by a car driven by Cindy Morrow of 
Lafayette. Morrow continued on for 
two miles before driving her car into 
a ditch. 
Before the accident, Morrow had been drinking for several hours at Butterfield's, a Lafayette restaurant and lounge. Norris had purchased several shots of tequila for her. After falling down in the bar, Morrow decided to leave. Norris helped her to her car and then attempted un­successfully to persuade her not to drive. 
Mrs. Ashlock sued Butterfield's, two of its bartenders and Norris for more than S2.4 million in actual and punitive damages but later dropped her suit against the restaurant and the bartenders. 
~i~~~_()__i_ll__t__________________
Fri-day_,M_ar-ch-29-,l-98_5_p_ag-e6 
The value of life is not cherished by the world 
Picture this: A young boy walking through the woods carrying a BB gun. Apparently he shoots at small animals and birds. I approach and ask what he's doing. Why does he shoot at 
Carol Brown 
that's life 
hdpless little animals? His blunt reply: "Target practice." Why? For fun. That's all· fun. 
After "asking" him to stop his "target practice", and l must say I wasn't too polite about it, I thought · this kid has no respect for life. He has no understanding of the sanctity and immeasurable value of life. And that scares me. 
The whole scenario caused me to wonder.. . Is this our attitude towards life? Do we care so little about preserving life? Sadly, the an· swer is yes. We, as a people, do not cherish life -at least not enough. We hear of killings everyday · murders, suicides, car wrecks, abortions, the list goes on. By the time a per­son has reached college age in our society he or she has viewed about 17,000 killings on TV. We are so inundated with violence and dis­regard for life that we become essentially numb to it. 
But we must shake ourselves out of this 
stupor and ask ourselves who is responsible 
for this needless waste of life? Ironically, we 
are. We who live in the most medically ad­
vanced society in the world -who spend mil­
lions upon millions of dollars into our health 
and well-being-we are destroying ourselves. 
We must ask why? Why do we so "de-value" life? How can we be so concerned about main­taining such a high standard of living, yet so unconcerned about violence and the waste of life? From where does this attitude stem? 
Well, if we think about the boy and the BB gun the answer becomes clear. After all, who gave the boy the gun in the first place? And who, in giving the gun, not only associated kif. ling with fun, but also taught that killing was acceptable · that life wasn't all that valuable? His parents. His family. Society. 
We as a society have made ourselves callous to killing. We hear about it constantly. We ac­cept it. We pay to see it. We are not bothered by it -at least not very much · not enough to do anything about it. Why are we so apathetic? I do not know. We can speculate on a seemingly endless array oftheories. However, I do know that we must change. 
We must stop teaching our children to play 
with weapons and emulate war "heroes." We 
must stop teaching them that power stems 
from the barrel of a gun. Instead, we must in­
still a respect for life. We must teach them to 
treasure life and show them how to live fully 
and with the utmost happiness. 
I am not writing this column to lecture, but 
to comment upon the society of which we are 
all a part. 
Are we self destructive? Hypocritical? If so, where will this lead? Let's go back to the boy and the gun again. What if it's a few years later and the boy, having grown up in a violent soci· ety, still has a low regard for life? What if he takes his own life or someone else's? Whose fault is it now? How long until we learn that life is our most precious and irreplaceable gift · that it must be cherished and respected? I say we must learn now. How many wars must we fight until we realize the only real enemy to be ourselves? We can blame no one else for the violence and great waste of life in the world. It's like the song "We are the World." We are the world and no one can change the world but ourselves. 
Carol Brown is in the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame and is a regular View­point columnist. 
A new beginning commences under Kollman 
Join the Kollman generation for a fresh beginning. Many signs fill the halls of Saint Mary's persuading students to become in· 
Margie Kersten 
and on the positive side 
volved in student government. What is actu­
ally involved with student government? What 
is the Kollman generation? 
Anne Marie Kollman, a junior nursing major 
from Cincinnati, Ohio, will take office Monday 
as the new Saint Mary's Student Body Presi­
dent. 
Kollman said the "Kollman generation" theme exemplifies the fresh beginning that she and her administration want to portray. She said she is excited about the amount of student involvement and because they have such a young board, there will be a lot ofnew, 
fresh ideas. 
The role of the student body president is to act as the uniting force between the students and the College administration. Because of Kollman's dedication'and sincere concern for Saint Mary's, she will unite the students with the administration, allowing a more compati­ble organization. Kollman will act as Chairper­son of the Board of Governance, which consists of hall presidents, class presidents, and all commissioners. 
There are two vice presidents under Kol­lman's wing. Vice President for Student Affairs jeanne Heller, is a sophomore from Normal, Ill., majoring in English. Vice President for Academic Affairs julie Harmon, a junior from Indianapolis, Ind., is majoring in art. 
Heller's obligations include serving as 
chairperson of the programming board. lbis 
board consists of commissioners, and the hall 
and class vice presidents. Other members in­
clude the commissioners of all traditional 
events that Saint Mary's sponsors, such as Ok­
toberfest, Christmas Bazaar, and An Tostal. 
Harmon's job of vice president for aca· demic affairs is undergoing change. A possible difference will be a change in title to vice pres­ident for academic affairs and College rela· tions. This would strengthen communication concerning academics to the alumnae and ad­ministration. Harmon will act as the chairper­son of the Student Academic Council, which discusses academic policies and proposals concerning curriculum and major require­ments. 
Strengthening communication between students, administration, and student govern­ment, is one of the goals the Kollman genera· tion hopes to accomplish. Student involvement has been tremendous thus far and it is because ofthe positive attempt by the Kollman generation to relay information to the students. 
"One of our major goals is to increase the students awareness of minorities on campus and increase their sensitivity to the issue," said Kollman. 
She also said the RA's and student govern­ment will be working together to present in­formation on minorities to the students. 
Student involvement in all aspects is an important concern ofthe Kollman generation. They have already started planning next years elections. They want to relay as much infor­mation to the students as they can before elec­tions so that anyone who might be interested will have the opportunity to become in· volved. They will, in turn, improve student participation. 
Also regarding elections, there will be a change in the format of class elections. Kol­
lman said that next year the class officers will 
run with a ticket of president and vice presi· 
dent only. Now, the ticket consists of secre­
tary and treasurer. With the new change, the 
secretary and treasurer will be appointed 
through an interviewing process. This change 
will benefit everyone and allow more people 
to become involved. 
The Kollman generation wants students to know they are concerned about their opinions. They will be holding a "Gripe Night" later this semester where students will be able to call in their opinions to different student government members. By sponsoring a night such as this, the Kollman generation is 
proving that they are sincerely concerned with the students feelings and that they want to keep the lines ofcommunication open. 
They are willing to meet the responsibili­ties involved in student government. Students must be supportive and cooperative with their effort and continue to improve commu­nication. 
Margie Kersten is a sophomorefrom Saint Mary's majoring in Communications. She is currently the Assistant Saint Mary's Editor. 
What happens to Ethiopia after the music stops 
It all started with the British. Late last year, many of Great Britain's top performers gath­ered in a studio and recorded a song. No, it 
Dave Kroeger 
Wednesday's child 
had nothing to do with all the girls that they had loved before. It had to do with Ethiopia. 
Now, in 1985, the United States, always quick to catch on to these European things, has decided to adopt the Band Aid format. Forty-six -count them -forty-six singers have joined to produce a single which is estimated to bring in over S.200 million dollars for the starving Ethiopians. The chorus ofstars which sings "We Are the World" has enough combined assets to embarrass half of the 
Doonesbury 

world's governments. Yet, they all gathered under one roof, with Cyndi Lauper's fluores­cent hair perfectly complementing Willie Nel­son's ponytail, each artist being very careful to check their "ego" at the door. 
Do not misunderstand. USA for Africa represents one of the greatest cooperative ventures of its kind. Yet, there is something which seems inherently lacking in the marat­hon single. Every one of the forty-six artists is heard, yet they all somehow manage to sound the same. One gets a rather empty feeling rather than a lump in the throat. One sees a recording studio filled with a plethora of en­
tertainment giants rather than a starving Et­hiopian child who will be able to survive because of the efforts of "you and me." 
The pomp which accompanies "We Are the World" is laced with a certain dream. We all will set everything aside and become one fam­
. ily. We will solve all of our problems by cooperation. Again, though, the media blitz and the glorified aspects of the single make this sincerity very difficult to find. 
Meanwhile, millions ofAmericans are going out and buying the USA for Africa single, if for nothing else than to say that they are doing their part. Music outlets will do a volume busi· ness on the little disc, as they undoubtedly will with the upcoming album. People will boo and hiss at the English dealers who will not carry "We Are the World" because they have already offered a great deal of time to Ethiopian charity. Radio stations will play the song again and again, perhaps as a way of goading those heartless souls who do not already own the single into making a road trip to the nearest mall. Millions upon millions of dollars will be garnered, and countless lives 
will be saved by thefoodstuffs which will pour into famine-stricken Ethiopia. 
Everyone will be happy. Why not? We are the world... We are the children... Everyone will be whole. Ethiopians will dance in the 
Garry Trudeau 
"A5 JOAN!& GCT5JEF­
Ff?&Y R&AlJY fOR a4Y 
CAR&, I A5KHCR/FI CAN 86 RUJ£3VWOFMY t151JAL-HOU5tHal? R£SFON­5191UTI&sFOR 
7H/3fA4Y.H 
= 

streets. Let's start givin'... Perhaps all of the 
world's most famous actors can join to make a 
movie for Ethiopia. Baskin Robbins can name 
their next flavor after the troubled African na· 
tion. What happens, though, when the enthus­
iasm wears off? Ethiopia is still there. It always 
will be. Starving Africans do not disappear 
when the song ends and the stylus returns to 
its resting position. 
We have seen some very strange things in 
our lifetime. Men have gone to the moon. 
Babies have been born in test tubes. Notre 
Dame football teams have lost games. We have 
even been informed by scientists that the ma­
terials in our body have a market price ofonly 
a few dollars. Let 1985 be the year in which 
life was valued in terms of a small vinyl disc 
with a hole at the center. 
David Kroeger is a sophomore in the Col­lege ofArts and Letters Honors Program and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Policy 
Viewpoint would like to hear from you. If you would like to respond to something you've read in The Observer, why not write a letter to the editor. Let­ters should be well-written, typed, no more than 250 words in length and must bear the signature of the author. Letters which are not signed by the au­thor will notbepublished. 
The Observer reseni(!S the right to edit all material submitted to the Viewpoint departmentfor publication. 

-~ ~--­
"ie~P-~O~i~n~t~-------------------------------------------F_r_id_a~y,_M_M__ch__29~,_1_9s_s__~p-a~ge__7 
Let the one voice of ND be heard in Washington 
Recently much publicity has been impact upon students at independent col­generated regardin~ President Reagan's pro­leges. A choice in higher education for low posed budget for fiscal 1986. College s~-and middle income students would all but be 
eliminated. The S4,000 cap on financial aid 
Rob Bertino would reduce financial aid awards of more than 25 percent of students by an average of over S1,300. Worse yet, students who then
guest column rely on loans to cover their college costs 
could find themselves paying back, upon dents in particular have taken note of the graduation, at a rate of more than 15 percent! proposed reductions in student financial aid Financial discrimination that will deny programs. access to the lower and middle-income stu­
Ifpassed, the Reagan budget would have a dent will also foster an elitism at independent devastating impact upon students attending institutions. The academic aims ofan indepen­this country's independent colleges and uni­dent institution will not be served by such versities -including Notre~ Dame. economic homogeneity among its student 
Although it may appear there is little we can body.. Diversity breeds growth. Stagnation do, if students act quickly and together, we will set in if a student body of varied back­can make a difference. ground and experience is not advocated. 
Howserious are these financial aid cuts? Ap­Notre Dame Student Government has not parently not very serious at all, if one heard sat idly waiting for the proposed budget to go the comments made by U.S. Secretary of Edu­into effect. Our Student Lobby Commission, cation, William J. Bennett. Wh~n asked how under the proposed direction of Karen Mc­he felt about the proposed cuts, Bennett Closkey and Ed Augustine, has already drafted stated "students may have to give up stereos, a policy statement. The statement unani­cars, and three-week beach vacations in order mously passed the Student Senate and was to fill the financial gap created by reductions sent to Washington, D.C. garnering a favorable in federal aid." This comment only illustrated response from Senator Lowell Weicker, Chair­Bennett's ignorance of the financial plight of man of the Education Appropriations Sub­the average college student, and an apparent committee. Recently, a post-card drive impending doom creeping up on middle and resulted in more than I ,000 Notre Dame stu­lower-middle class families desperately strug­dents submitting cards which were also sent gling to keep their children in the classroom. to Washington. We have also joined with Yet one only has to look at the facts to realize COPUS and Ameriquest, two national organi­the seriousness ofthe cuts: zations, to help fight the proposed financial 
Approximately one million students ( 30 aid cuts. percent) would no longer be eligible for But our efforts must not cease. This next Guaranteed Student Loans -808,000 students week will be a crucial period, and we must ( 28 percent) would be dropped from continue in our efforts against these drastic eligibility for Pell Grants. financial aid cuts. In a paid advertisement on 
Federal funding would be cut for National page 13 is a list of names of key senators to Direct Student Loans, Supplemental whom we should communicate our feelings. Educatinal Opportunity Grants, and State Stu­Pick a few and write them. Let them know dent Incentive Grants, thereby virtually elim­how the cuts would affect you personally. inating these programs. A S4,000 cap would Write your representatives and senators be placed on total aid received by any one stu­today, and let the voice of the independent dent, regardless offamily circumstances. college student be heard. You might be 
Beyond the cutbacks in student aid, there surprised what a difference you can make. would be no grants or loans for college housing, academic facilities, or college or uni­Rob Bertino is a senior atNotre Dame and versity libraries. These cutbacks, should they is the president of the Notre Dame student become a reality, would have a tremendous body. 
P.O.BoxQ 
No one is immune from the terror of the IRA 
Dear Editor: • 
I would like to correct an inaccuracy on the part of Pete Manzo in his Viewpoint article of March 26th, "Is Reagan fighting terrorism with terrorism?" 
The Provisional IRA have claimed responsi· bility for all recent murders ofmembers ofthe Northern Ireland police force. The fact the nine murdered in the bombing at Newry were Protestant or that the sergeant killed near En­niskillen was a Catholic is totally and ir­
retrievably beside the point. 
The IRA does not represent the opinion of the Catholic minority in Northern Ireland. Their violence has been indiscriminate and has resulted in the deaths of people from all segments of the community. No one is immune. The IRA does not believe in democracy and seeks to establish a Marxist government in all oflreland. 
I have always thought it ironic that this or­ganization receives substantial support from Irish Americans. The IRA's tactics are those of a thug and a bully boy. I agree these murders are futile and will result in no progress towards a settlement in Ireland. 
Hugh McManus Notre Dame 
Voluntary sterilization is against Catholism 
.Dear Editor: , 
An article appearing March 27 concerning 
the woman who sued her doctor for the cost 
of raising her child after undergoing steriliza­
tion prodedures handed me a laugh. The 
Court of Appeals of New York correctly 
rejeCted Mrs. O'Toole's claim for damages, 
though this is not my point: The O'Toole's at­
torney stated that Mrs. O'Toole was Catholic 
and rejected'abortion as an option. 
I think this statement is ironic due to the whole nature ofthe law suit! IfMrs. O'Toole is hiding behind the Church as a defense, she should be aware that contraception, other than abstention, is also against the Church as is abortion. If Mrs. O'Toole was a true Catholic she would not have undergone the procedure in the first place. I guess she is a pick and choose Catholic. 
Matthew Goldmann Notre Dame student 

ARMS TAlKS lECKNOlOGY 
II 

The Valhalla Memorial Mortuary sounds like something out ofEvelyn Waugh orAldous Huxley. But here it is, in North Hollywood, not far from Glendale's Forest Lawn, ground sacred to satire. Though ofa quieter scale, Val­halla -as its name may suggest -is ofa kindred 
Garry Wills 
outrider 
spirit. Its fine old entry, facing the Lockheed plant, is called The Portal ofthe Folded Wings. 
But how did it enter recent newspapers? That is a story involving theft, resisted burial, various organizations and courts (including the U.S. Supreme Court), competing mor­tuaries and politicians and· according to one group involved -a holocaust. 
Where to begin? First,· I suppose, with a repossession · a mortgage forfeited, a large tank stranded ownerless behind a house. Stored there in formaldehyde were the remains from a laboratory the forfeiting man had operated. And, among the remains, human fetuses by the thousands-16,433, ac­cording to a precise audit. The work crew cleaning the yard was understandably shocked at this discovery. 
What were so many fetuses doing in the waste of a single laboratory? According to Carol Downer, of the Feminist Women's Health Center, clinics send them for analysis to discover any medical complications that might remain for the women involved. 
Enter the county Board ofSupervisors, anti­abortion groups and morticians offering their services. The county board gave the contents of the tank to a doctor who analyzed and photographed them in detail and who then re­ported the photographs had been stolen from him. They showed up in pamphlets and on 
There is absolutely no entry into Valhalla 
television, as part of the anti-abortion cam­
paign. 
The ACLU and others now sued the county 
board to prevent relgious burial for the 
fetuses. The ACLU won that case, which was 
appealed up through District Court, state Su­
preme Court and the U.S. Supreme Court, 
where the ACLU was upheld this week. Yet 
the anti-abortion groups still oppose incinera­
tion for the fetuses. 
Burial of the fetuses in California, whose 
green slipcover vegetation is fed by hydraulic 
miracles and not by the natural water table, 
was opposed, among other things, on ecologi­
cal grounds -there was so much formaldeyde 
to be contained. Obliging funeral homes of­
fered leakproof containers. 
I wondered why and asked for a spokesper­son at Valhalla. Oddly enough, given the opposition to incineration in this case, the man I spoke with is the director of cremation services -Enoch Glascock. Was this offer of free burial a statement against abortion? No, he assured me. Then why had it been made? "We were called by a Catholic organization that asked if we would provide burial. They wished to buy some kind of plaque. It had nothing to do with our corporate beliefor dis­belief. If a group of Catholic laymen want to do that, we are not going to stand in their way." 
But why provide the service free? "We have 
done that many times over the last 80 years. 
We've never turned anybody away. If we have, 
I don't know about it." 
Yet, looking at the place, I do not imagine 
many paupers would apply here. As usual, Cal­
ifornia states national truths in an extreme 
way: strangely shaped fetuses are more 
welcome, with some people, than the even 
more oddly curlicued things they become 
after successful childbirth. 
(C) 1985 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

I I 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1 
Ed1tor~tn~Ch1el Sarah E~ Hamilton Bustness Manager Davod Stephenotch 
The Observer IS the Independent newpaper published by the students of the Managtng Ed1tor Amy Stephan Advert1stng Manager Anne Cui logan ~ News Ed1tor Ke•th Hamson Jr. Controller. 8•11 Hoghducheck
Un1versity of Notre Dan•,' du Lac and Samt Mar{s College. It does not necessarily 
News Ed1tor~ Dan McCullough Systems Manager Mark B. Johnson
reflect the pol1cies of the .ldmm1strat10n of either mst1tution. The news is reported as 
1
Sa1nt Mary·s Executive Editor Theresa Guar~no Product1on Manager John A Men nell
accurately and as objeCtively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
Sports Ed1tor. Jeff 91-umb 
of a maJOnty of the Ed1tonal Board~ Commentaries. letters and the Inside Co.lumn 
Accent Ed1tor ~ Mary Healy present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of ttle V1ewpotnt Ed1tor Joe Murphy commun1ty. and the free express1on of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through letters. Photography Ed1tor Peter C Laches IS encouraged Copy Ch1el Frank Lopo Founded November 3, 1966 

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Corie looks on as Victor Velasco (Steve Staresinic), the swinging Swede, explains the tolls oflate-night partying. 
stage design, backdrops and props. but add invaluable color and laughs. found in a noisy, knock-'em-down, justice, and plus. It may just be mances are contributed ~o the Andy Fortunately, this particular produc-Loftus and Nickerson are to be drag-'em-out fight. A "first fight," worth a trip to Chautauqua this Sowder Scholarship Fund. 
J'ft''i\\fuffilhMtE! 

Accent 
The honeymoon is over 
in Simon's wacky 'Barefoot in the Park' 
Margaret McCabe 
Theater review 
A
simple setting, a casual atmo­sphere and a Neil Simon play ... the three simply go together. 
And they went together perfectly last night as Cavanaugh Hall pre­sented its first performance of Simon's "Barefoot in the Park" in the Chautauqua Ballroom. 
"Barefoot" is the hilarious com­edy about a newlywed couple: Paul Ooseph Nickerson), a young, con­servative lawyer and his bride, Corle (Kathleen Loftus), a bubbly free-spirit. The two are starting off
,. 
their life together in a ... less than
,.. 
glamorous apartment on East 48th Street, New York City. 
lbe new abode is a source of many comical situations through­out the story, as is Curie's mother, Ethel ( M.T. Broughton), who not­too-subtly hints that her loneliness may be the cause for several visits. With this news, Corle decides to introduce her mother to her neigh­bor, Victor Velasco (Steve Staresinic ). 'Ibis middle-aged, Swedish "Don juan" eventually 
sweeps Ethel off her feet but not before some hysterical situations arise. 
Meanwhile, trouble arises in paradise for Corie and Paul and .. .well, enough said. Neil Simon writes great comedies. But a com­edy depends on more than scripts. 
For one thing, it depends on good tion requires no elaborate scenery or complicated props. Even though Chautauqua is not equipped for sophisticated theatrics, the stage designers and construction crew 
were able to set up a clever and 
appropriate set. 
The costumes were simple, but it's the simplicity and familiarity of "Barefoot" that contributes to the success. 
The most obvious contributors to the success ofa production, however, are the performers them­selves. Despite any first-night jitters they may have had, the six cast members of Cavanaugh's produc­tion displayed the result ofhard work and dedication that began before Christmas break. 
The dialogues ran smoothly and the staging was well-coordinated. By the end of the first act it was obvious that the characters were well-liked by the audience. Even Ethel, the epitome ofa dejected and forlorn mother-in-law, became loveable. 
One ofthe more impressive elements in the performance was Staresinic's Swedish acc~nt; it was as convincing as it was consistent. Also noteworthy were the comical contributions made by the tele­phone man (Mark McLaughlin) and delivery man (Bob Walsh). The two may not be necessary to the story, commended for their convincing mind you, that ends in a decision to performances as typical newlyweds. get a di ... oh, never mind. They're nauseating when they love each other and frightening when All that matters is that "Barefoot they "hate" each other. In fact, the in the Park" is a fun and funny story climax of the play is definitely and Cavanaugh's production does it weekend to find this out for your­self. 
Cavanaugh's production of "Barefoot in the Park" is the hall's third annual play. Any donations collected at the end of the perfor­
Friday, March 29, 1985-page 8-9 
Musings on when we reveal our true selves 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
I've been a member of the Catho­
lic C_hurch for about 40 years. I've 
always hated to go to confession. 
For the first 20 years, I received the 
Sacrament with great regularity. As 
a seminarian until the end of 
Vatican II, it was part of my lifestyle 
to go to confession once a week. 
In 1965, new winds ofdoctrine began blowing through the Church, affecting not only me, but also my confessor. Neither ofus thought I needed all those graces ofrecon­ciliation; I shouldn't have played loosey-goosey with the rules. I've gone for years now without for­mally placing myselfunder the shadow of the absolving hand ofa priest. The last time it happened, it was the confessor's idea. He could see I had a lot on my mind. He wanted to make sure of my peace of conscience. 
The Navy used to punish its culprits with a form oftorture called keel-hauling: hauling the victim under the keel of the ship. Confession, when you're worried about it, seems comparable to keel­hauling. The most dreadful part of confession is imagining how ashamed you'll feel accusing your­
selfofshabby, dreary behavior. The time in the box may turn out to be a piece ofcake after you get there, if the confessor is pleasant and gentle. As you're shivering in the pew as the next in line, you can imagine him to be as inflexible as a Nazi judge. As a minister ofinstitutional mercy, it's his business to behave like a gentleman, and not a bully. 
All the confessors I can remem­ber have turned out to be sweet­hearts in their style ofcompassion, yet I do have a faint recollection of a priest with disgust in his voice: ''I'm surprised to hear you say that." I'm thinking: "Why in the devil should you be surprised? I'm not here to win a popularity contest as the saint ofthe week." 
Going to confession is the wildest tradition of the Catholic religion. It's terrible to know you've seriously sinned. It seems like double jeopardy to owe an explana­tion ofyour lapse into darkness to an intolerant cleric. I have a feeling that a number ofCatholics who 
practice birth control have a troubled conscience. It's not hard to figure out that perfect love shouldn't depend on the drug store to prevent fruitfulness. Couples must pray that God will understand their reluctance to bring up more children. After a while, however, they get tired of the guilt. 
After several sessions ofbeing scolded by the priests, they decide it is none of the Church's business. They re-think the theology ofso personal a matter, and give up the teaching whichJeaves them feeling guilty as second-class Catholics. I suspect that some of them wouldn't be so quick to join Planned Paren­thood, which praises them as vir­tuous, if they didn't feel driven to 
the wall by the ritual offorgiveness, which brings them to their knees, blushing, before an insensitive servant of the bureaucracy. Only a wild and crazy pope would urge them to come. Protestants tell converts joining the Church: "You'll have to tell your sins to a priest." Confession is the sacrament ofscandal dividing Christendom. 
But it's as Catholic as the altar at which the Mass is offered. 
Priests hearing confessions know how ordinary and human they are. They take their turn in the lines of penitents. Priests get scolded as hypocrites for having sins. Hypocrisy is, I think, when you pretend to believe in something in order to manipulate others into doing what you want them to do, like giving money. Hypocrisy, if' 
you're ordained, is one ofthe oc­cupational hazards. Priests are sinners in need ofsalvation; be­cause sinfulness is in the cloth out ofwhich human nature is made. 
·The Church ordains priests to be ministers of the signs ofsalvation: sinner helps out sinner, as on the desert island where the inhabitants make their living by taking in each other's laundry. The signs are sacra­ments offering the graces signified by ordinary elements like wine and water, as though Christ were active through the ritual. The confessor uses words as a sign: "May Our Lord Jesus Christ absolve you; and with 
His authority, I absolve you from your sins..." The advantage of sacraments is that you can be sure ofthem. You're no longer a Chris­tian struggling alone with your prayers, asking for the mercy of God. God certainly answers prayers; the problem is not with Him, but with you, wondering if 
your prayers are heard in heaven. Sacraments began in the will of Christ when He gave His Church the ministry offorgiving sins. 
The very first time I went to confession, I went to the church at 3 o'clock, halfan hour before the priest entered the box. I stayed frozen on my knees for the rest of the afternoon, trying to muster up the courage to go in and confess my sins. Finally, at eight o'clock, I made a general confession ofmy life. I don't remember how long it took. The priest was patient and gentle; he didn't seem to find me out of the ordinary. Later, I asked myself why I had made such a big deal out of something so simple. The answer is easy: I had never done it before. I was terrified ofdoing it until I talked to the priest. 
Now, once again, I've gotten into acting like a scared teen-ager, postponing the moment ofconfes­sion as though I were afraid of the priest. Now that Lent is here, I am anxious to be on best terms with the Church. Confession for Easter is a mainline Catholic tradition. The green earth ofmy soul has patches ofdeadness like a lawn that needs the help ofa gardener. 
Over break, I'm travelling with the Glee Club into the direction where the sun sets on this con­tinent. A week from now, I'll be looking at the Pacific like one who dreams ofeternity at Land's End, where the rivers come down to the sea. At a point of the western wil­derness between San Francisco and Vegas, I hope to meet a priest who will talk to me like God's spy seeing the truth of things. Or maybe I'll get the grace to come back here to Emerald City as a penitent asking for absolutio~ locally. My sins are 
not so complicated that I need a 
West Coast guru to give me a talking to. 
I have a reason for admitting to something so personal. Maybe you should go to confession too, as you head for break to the beach ofyour choice. All ofus are headed at dif­fering speeds to the timeless turnpike stretching beyond every man's land's end, though all ofus have miles to go before we sleep, and you have many more miles to go than I do. 
Christ lies in every direction on the temporal map. He's the snug harbor offering us shelter as though we were going home, any time we need Him. All ofus are going to Him as members of the same company, by way ofLauderdale or New York or the upper peninsula in Michigan. All ofus should, with regularity, make pit stops for mercy, or arrange for check-points with the pros, to see how we are doing. It's not only the sheep that need to be led to the 
still waters. The shepherds need to lie down there-and rest also. As members of the flock loyal to Christ, we should work to keep the others from becoming castaways. 
In plain talk, I'm asking for your 
prayers. It's been a hard year. I want 
to make the most of this season of 
grace. I'll pray for your Easter 
confession, and hope you'll pray for 
mine. The break should be 
memorable for something besides 
suntans. All ofus are ministers, 
giving each other a hand over the 
rough spots. The roughest spot of 
the year for me is when I'm facing 
the Church, eyeball to eyeball, 
getting ready to receive the sacra­
ment ofscandal. 

sound of music at 8 p.m. Saturday night. Karen Buranskas will be entertaining the audience at a faculty cello recital at 4 p.m. 
Movies 
Sunday. 
•The Saint Mary's Performing Art Series will present the Czech ChamberSoloists at 8 p.m. at O'Laughlin Auditorium. Admis­
•Ifyou're in the !llOod for some exciting, sion for this fine performance is S4.50,
spine-tingling entertainment, be sure to hit 55.50, and S6.50.
the Engineering Auditorium for the hair­•The Saint Mary's Choir & Wabash Men's raising "IndianaJones and the Temple Glee Club will harmoniously display their
of Doom." Harrison Ford portrays once 
abilities at the Little Theatre of Moreauagain the archaeologist who lives life in the Hall at 8 p.m. Saturday night. 
fast and dangerous lane. The Student Activ­•Another promising performance willities Board is presenting this movie at 7, be held at Century Center by the South9:15, and 1I:30 tonight and tomorrow Bend Symphony. lbis concert will feature night for S1.50. 
Stephen Burns on the trumpet. lbis enter·•The horrific and chilling tale of hor­Wrestling fans should plan to attend. 

taining concert will be held at 8 p.m. Satur­ror,"The Shining," will be shown at the . you 'II find the action exciting and the day night. For more information callAnnenberg Auditorium for S2.50. Jack proceeds will be donated to a worthy or­284-9I90.
Nicholson stars as a down-on-his-luck ganization. 
Theater 
teacher who takes a job as a winter caretaker of a desolate Colorado resort hotel that is subsequently isolated by a blizzard, and discovered to be possessed by demonic spirits. 
I~ 


Nazz


Art 
•The well-known comedy Barefoot in the Park by Nell Simon will be shown tonight and tomorrow night at 8 p.m. in the Chautauqua Ballroom in LaFortune. All are •The group Cold Drinks will be filling

Misc. 
•Continuing this weekend in the Wo­encouraged to see this play, which is being the Nazz with their music at 9 p.m. Satur­men's Art League Gallery of the Art Center presented by Cavanaugh Hall to aid the day night. Admission is free. is the exhibit Wall and Floor Sculpture Andy Sowder Fund. by John Mishler of Goshen, Ind. Working 
•With its newest extravaganza, Ice with wood and steel, Mishler creates Capades will make its annual South Bend abstract relief wall sculpture as well as visit this weekend. Ice Capades is pleased large-scale floor pieces. to present at the ACC the ultimate skating •Glenn Zweygardt: Steel and Stone 




Mass
fantasy, "Dream World," featuring as­Sculpture continues this weekend. 
Music Jf:j
tounding ·aerial acrobatics and world­Zweygardt teaches sculpture and is depar­reknowned champions. Also, those ment chairman at New York State College cartoon favorites the Smurfs will be back in of Ceramics at Alfred University. His an all-new adventure featuring their new monumental steel and stone sculpture has addition, bouncing baby Smurft For more been featured in numerous one-man •The University of Notre Dame Depart­The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart information call 289-7880. shows, as well as in private and public col­ment of Music will present several fine Church this weekend will be: 

•Wrestlemania will be broadcast live lections in the United States. talents this weekend. Dennis Arechiga will Father Robert Kennedy at 5: I5 p.m. via satellite from Madison Square Garden Hours at the Snite this weekend are be performing a senior piano recital at 4 (Saturday night vigil). in Stepan Center on Sunday at l p.m. Tick­today from 10 a.m. to 4 and tomorrow and p.m. today. The Loras College Choir will fill FatherTheodore Hesburgh at II:00 a.m. ets are on sale at the ACC Box Office for S8. Sunday from 1 p.m. to 4. the Annenberg Auditorium with the sweet Father Mark Poorman at I2:30 p.m. 
Friday, March 29, 1985-page 10 
Sports Briefs 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will be meeting for practice today at 4 p.m. on Stepan Field. · Tbe Obseroer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Clubwillholdpracticefor this weekend's freshman Icebreaker regatta today from 4 p.m. to 6 
p.m. All first-year sailors, especially crew, are invited to attend.-Tbe Obseroer 
Flanner Hall won the NVA interhall wrestling tourna­ment with 34 points. Zahm was second with 29 points, and Carroll was thrid with 26. The off-campus squad finished with 23 points, and Holy Cross had 22. Flanner was led by Brian Schell, who won the 167-pound division. Other individual winners include Carroll's Douglas Green at 152 pounds and Michael Romney at 160. Dillon's Giovanni Kotoriy won the 123-pound class, Sorin's Edward Laboe took the 130-pounders and Tom Hayman of Alumni won the 137­pound division. John Hargreaves was a winner for off-campus at 145 pounds, Peter Pierret took the honors for Holy Cross at 177 and Mark Antonietti ofZahm won the unlimited class. -The Obseroer 
The ND Water Polo Clubwill play host to a tourn­ament this weekend. The Irish will play tonight at 7 p.m. and tomorrow at 2 p.m. Participating teams will be Dayton, Purdue and Northwestern. 
Applications are being takentor the position of president of the Saint Mary's College Athletic Council for the 1985-86 school year. Applications can be picked up now at the An­gela Athletic Facility and must be returned by Thursday, April 4. All interested athletes are encouraged to apply. -Tbe Obseroer 
Bookstore Basketball team captains must attend a mandatory meeting on Sunday from 1:15 p.m. to 2:30 
p.m. in the library Auditorium. This is the only time schedules will be distributed. Tournament action kicks off on April 9 with the Hall of Fame game. -Tbe Obseroer 
Classifieds 
Women's Bookstore Basketballsignupswm be held Sunday from 2 p.m. to 3:30p.m. at the OBUD desk on the first floor of LaFortune. -The Obseroer 
Professional wrestling is coming to Stepan Cen­ter. The MS Drive presents World Wrestling Federation "Wrestlemania," a closed-circuit broadcast live from Madison Square Garden on Sunday at 1 p.m. Tickets are on sale now at the Gate 10 ticket office at the ACC and at Rock duLac. All proceeds go to Multiple Sclerosis. -Tbe Obseroer 
An Tostal innertube water polo signups have been extended until Monday. For more information, contact the An Tostal office in LaFortune. 
Dancin' Irish tryouts are coming up. An organiza­tional meeting for anyone interested in trying out will be held on Monday at 7 p.m. in the Chautaqua Ballroom. For more information, call Debbie at 283-3552 or Usa at 283-2697.-Tbe Obseroer 
Anyone interested in scorekeeping for the Bookstore Basketball tournament should attend a meeting on Tuesday from 7 p.m to 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Uttle Theatre. Those unable to attend must call Suzanne La Croix at 283-1365 or Marc Ramirez at 283-2504 before the meeting.-Tbe Obseroer 
An Tostal mud volleyball si~ups will be held everyday through Thursday, April 4, from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the An Tostal office in LaFortune. Each team must consist of at least seven players, two of whom must be women. For more information, call Janet Tabit at 277-3967 or Matt Corrigan at 283-2465.-Tbe Obseroer 
Several top amateur wrestlers from the United States andJapan will participate in an international challenge match on Thursday, April4, at 7 p.m. in the ACC. Some Olympians and NCAA champions will compete, including Irish assistant coach John Azevedo, the NCAA 57 kg. champ. Tickets are available now at the Gate 10 ticket office of the ACC at SS for adults and S3 for stu­dents 18 and under.-Tbe Obseroer 
see BRIEFS, page 12 
Observer sports dept. announces new editors 
The Observer sports department 
announced three promotions yes­
terday. Kelly Portolese, a junior 
Mass Communications major from 
Mishawaka, Ind., has been named 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor. Larry 
Burke and Phil Wolf will be the two 
assistant sports editors. 
Portolese, who has covered the Saint Mary's volleyball and basket­ball teams for The Observer, will coordinate the coverage of all Saint Mary's athletics. 
Burke, who hails from Nutley, N.J., is a sophomore majoring in Ameri­can Studies. He has written for The Observer since his freshman year and co-coordinated the football beat last fall. He has held the position of sports copy editor since September 1984. 
The second assistant sports editor will be Wolf, who will continue in the post he has held since last Sep­tember. A resident of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and also a sophomore American Studies major, Wolf was in charge of The Observer's soccer coverage last season in addition to covering varsity basketball for two seasons and Bookstore Basketball XIII last spring. He has been a sports copy editor since January 1984. 
The two will assist the sports editor in a variety of tasks, including story development and assignment, staff management, training of new personnel, filing and formulation of sports department policies. 
AU three appointments are effec­tive immediately. 
The Obsen't'r Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 ~-ems per five ~·harac­ters r da ·. 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81187 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING 272-8827 
WORDPROCESSING 2n-a045 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
TYPING Jecklellon• 611-4-87113 
PRQ-TYPE Over 14 yrs. experience typing student papers. doaaertetions etc. 277·5833 
Word Proceaa1ng -Call Andrea at 283­3880 from 9:00am -11 :00 pm. ' 
GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U repair) Also delinquent tax property. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. GH-9634 for Informa­tion. 
BURKAT COMPUTER CENTER SOFTWARE AND ACCESSORIES FOR MACINTOSH. BEST SELECTION SUPER LOW PRICES ALL SOFTWARE 2~50/ OFF 3105 MISHAWAKA AVE. 287-3344 
ATIENTION RADIO AMATEURS!! and enyone interested in getting involved In the NO AMATEUR RADIO CLUB for next yeer. The club must begin to orgenize now! II Interested call R!ck Skendzel at 1690. 
THE NEW YORK TIMESIII IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO ORDER THE NEW YORK TIMES FOR CAMPUS DELIVERY CON­TACT GEORGE DEVENNY AT 145 
STANFORD HALL 283-2094 
The SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES preaenta the l!lm BROTHER SUN SISTER MOON on Sundey Merch 31 and Mondey April1, at 7:00 and 9:15pm et the Eng~neering Auditonum. 
CHANCE TO DANCEIII CHANCE TO DANCEIII CHANCE TO DANCE Ill SATURDAY. MARCH 30 1~2 CHATAUQUA BALLROOM, LAFORTUNE BUY $1 RAFFLE TICKET FOR M.S. IN YOUR HALL OR AT THE DOOR 
LOST/FOUND I 
FOUND: CROSS PEN AND PENCIL IN ROOM 124 NIEULAND SCIENCE BLDG. ' CALL TIM 2543 TO IDENTIFY. 
....................... ,.. . .......................... Loet: Maroon Samsonite overnight bag containing BOOKS and personal items. Lost 3/16 between NO and SMC. REWARD offered, no questions. Please call Barb at 283-3846. 
LOST a ladies gold lle!ko watch arouno and about main or south quad about 2 weeks before spring break--heeps and bunches of sentimental vaJue is attached to it--please call Heather at 3763 if you have found It--thanks! 
Whoever left me in charge of their pearlS at the last Dillon SYR, please call me to claim. Eric Schneeman 3744 
WANTED 
Relat1ves traveling from El S.lvedor to see beloved preSident. So, I need many COMMENCEMENT tickets. Call 3811 or you may find a guerilla at your door. 
Need ride to Md./D.C. area. Andy, 1409 
AIDE NEEDED TO PGH. OR ANY PA. TURNPIKE EXIT 2-7. CAN LEAVE AFTER 11 THURS. 3/4. CALL MEG 284 5264. 
PHILL Yl PHILL Y! DELAWARE?!? Please call 284-5118 if our Interests meet. Call at eny hour. P.S. I like road trips. Do You? 
RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDEL ANYWHERE FROM S. PA. TO DC AREA FOR EASTER. CAN LEAVE ASAP AFTER WED PM· ALAN 3128 
HISTORY TEACHER, FORMER TRAVEL AGENT, PLANNING SUMMER IN EUROPE, SEEKS PERSON OR PER­SONS WITH SIMILAR PLANS AS TRAVELING COMPANION/S. CALL JACK YOUNG: 616-683-0547, Ex 38. 
WANTED: A place to live next year! II you are in need of an extra man for a house, or have yet to find an OC home, call Ray at 2059. 
WASHINGTON, D.C. IS WHERE I NEED A AIDE TO. CAN LEAVE THURS., APRIL 
4. CALL JOHN 277-0607. 
NEED RIDE TO MIAMI(OHIO)/DAYTON,3/29, CALL GLENN AT 3460 
need riders to COLUMBUS OH tor Easter call2894 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE:1980 PLYMOUTH CHAMP,TWIN STICK, AM/FM STEREO. RUNS WELL ASKING $800, BUT WILL NEGOTIATE. CALL JEFF 3859. 
1978 Pontiac Grand LeMans. Air­conditioned, No rust. One owner, good condition. $2800. 282-1805. 
'''''\''' 
For sale: La Belle slide projector, carrying case. four stack loaders. Superb condi­tion. 277-1226 alter7. $50. 
1978 Camaro L T 6 cyl. 3 sp. 1 owner 79000 mi. $2950 John 1486 
Be smart! Sell your class books before the rush. Mon.-Fri between 12 and 4. Save$ on paperbacks. Fri: 3-6; 50/ off used: 20/ off new. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 So Bend Ave. 233-2342 
TICKETS 
HELP I I I ONLY CHILD NEEDS 7,SEVENI, GRAD TIX. II I don't get ·em, they won't spotl me anymore. If you share your tix, I'll share what I have. CALL KAREN 2n-6740. 
PERSONALS 
. . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . .. . OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 

JIM TABOR CORE COURSE Player of the week: Lonnl Ertdne 
HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO-TH 8-11pm FA-SA 8pm-1am 
NEED RIDE TO MILWAUKEE ON WED APR 3$$$$ CALL MIKE 1821 ......................,..... 
ATIENTION JUNIORS reservations are still available for the CHICAGO ROADTRIP onApril13 Cete tix only $35 
Cubblee tix only $17 "an evening of fun, baseball, culture and debauchery in lhe Windy City.. call Dan nowal1787 
Good luck to. Laura . Amy, Julie, Maureen, In lhe BP hall elections! From your FANS 
RED RED RED RED RED II 
BEAUX-ARTS BALL PAINT THE TOWN RED FRIDAY 12 APRIL 9:30 BETHEREII 
AN TOSTAL GENERAL MEETING SUNDAY MARCH 31ST 7:15PM HAYES-HEALY AUDITORIUM DONT MISS IT!! 
ATIENTION FRANCOPHONES ET FRANCOPHILE$ le Cercle Francais vous invite a celebrer une soiree Ires agreable avec nous. Une crepene aura lieu ce vendredi soir a partir de 9 heures jusqu·a une heure du matin a Badin Hall. Venez taus, memo si vous 
etes des escargots. 
CHICAGO CLUB Organizational Meeting Sun March 31 Little Theater 8:00 
MUD VOLLEYBALL SIGNUPS-AnTes­tal Office,LaFortune from 3-5pm. Signups March 28-April 4. Info: Call Janet Tabil 2n-3967.or Matt Corrigan 283-2465. 
CAMPUS VIEW APTS ... NEED: 2 Female roommates lor school yr. 85-86. For into.call Janet Tabit-2n-3967 after 11pm. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS!! Its time to plan for the SENIOR TRIP to the BAHAMAS.Deposits can be pBJd from NOW til 4/3 at First Sourse Travel offices(Badin and Deccio). They accept all major credit cards. Deposits will be taken in LaFortune, 4/9-4/12(Tues-Fri) from 6:30-8:30pm.THINK BAHAMAS!!! 
SAINT MARYS OBSERVER WRITERS! Don't forget the MANDATORY meeting for all news and sports writers this Tuesday, April2, al6:30 p.m. in room 306 Haggar Center. If by chance you can't attend, you must call Tess Guarino at 239-5313 before the meeting. Anyone in­terested in writing is welcome 
OJ was nestled all snug in his bed while visions of sugarplums danced in his head 
I need a ride to o·Hare Wed. evening. Lent is almost over, so why not get in one last good deed? Please call Susie at 2184. 
GLB, IL Y! ... hi 
ISN TIT AMAZING WHAT A BILL MUR­RAY VOICE CAN DO TO WOMEN? GEORGE&JOHN 
LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: DANCE TONIGHT (FRI) from 7:30 to 10:00 pm. REGULAR REC tomorrow (SAT). New volunteers needed and welcome. 
Need ride to Cleveland leav~ng Thurs.(4/4) of Easter Break. Call4174. 
CHANCE TO DANCEIII 
CHANCE TO DANCEIII 
CHANCE TO DANCEIII 
lor M.S. 
SATURDAY,MARCH301~2 
CHATAUQUA BALLROOM, LAFORTUNE MUSIC, FOOD, DANCING AND BIG PRIZESIII BUY A RAFFLE TICKET IN YOUR HALL OR AT THE DOOR FOR $1 
FOR SALE: ROUND TRIP AIRPLANE TICKET FROM SOUTH BEND (not OHare!) TO ST. LOUIS OR SPRINGFIELD MO. FOR EASTER -A ONE TIMi DEAL TO BEST OFFER CALL 1527 AND LEAVE BID. 
DEAR BRIAN !SEAN -YOUNGEST BROTHER OF MARTA BUSHKA, DRINK BEER, SHOOT POOL DRINK BEER. SHOOT POOL DRINK BEER, SHOOT POOL DRINK BEER. SHOOT POOL DRINK BEER. SHOOT POOL SINCERELY, YOUR BROTHERS TO BE Now !..turing thle w..kend In P.W.: Thund..toot end the eHrectlonel W•tch thl• •P•c• for further lnfor,.... 
lion. 
Comee see Cailin "Stick· Stubbs and her new California tan before it fades! While your al it wish her a happy 19th Birthday.G!ve her a call at 2691 and make her dsy1 
DENNIS ARECHIGA...Good luck th!l evening!! Love, Noelle 
-T~'~il ol Franks women: Harry, Holly Ann, Beth, Fishheads, Marcie, Mary A, and the D.C harem of Jill, Chris, Sue, and glonous Cheryl. You must all V!sit Bacard! Frank Saturday to W!Sh him a happy birthday, and consume mass quantttiea of alcohol with him! He wants to be taken ad­vantage of. 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY MARIA MORIN-eye heart you I Have a good one' Love, em square-P.S.-here s to Easter Break!!! 
Happy Birthday to you' Happy Birthday to you! Happy Birthday Maria Morin Happy Birthday to you! 
Anne O'Melley N'oblige pas notre rendezvous ce sou a Ia creperie. Voyez-vous. Chester 
GO HAWAIIAN VIDEO DANCE PARTY: Tonight. 9:30, in Graces Party Room Hawaiian Drinks! Door Prizes (ltke dm­ners at Tippecanoe)! Only $1 
GO HAWAIIAN! GO HAWAIIAN! GO HAWAIIAN! GO ·HAWAIIAN! GO HAWAIIAN! Tonight at 9:30 in Graces Hawaiian Party Room. 
ATTENTION MEN OF N.D. ELIKAPEKA­KIWI-ELIZABETH EDRALIN-is 19 today! Stop by 133 B.P. with a LEI & a KISS tor everyone's favorite Hawaiian native! 
Yo Chip! Belated HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Love Ann 
CHANCE TO DANCE Ill CHANCE TO DANCEIII CHANCE TO DANCEIII lor M.S. SATURDAY 1~2 $1 
Joy Joy Joy 
Friday, March 29, 1985-page 11
The Observer 
Probably no 3-point line 
Shot clock probable for NCAA
staurant 
Assodated Press
Best inAged Stea 
LEXINGTON, Ky. · College bas­Downtown, Mishawaka 
120 N. Main Street 
ketball is almost certain to have a 45· second shot clock next season, but it
255-7737 
likely will take longer to accept the 
for reservations 
three-point field goal or deal with 
Lunch ll:OOa.m. to 2:30p.m. 
the problem of late-game fouling,
Dinner 5:00 p.m. 
NCAA official Edward Steitz said yes­
Closed 
terday. 
Steitz, athletic director at Springfield College and longtime Notre Dame and St. Marys I editor of the NCAA's rules commit·
·-------------------------~ 
tee, told a news conference that 62
Starving Student I 
percent of the National Association 
Discount Coupon 10% OFF 1 of Basketball Coaches surveyed called for the NCAA to put into place
14k Italian Gold and Sterling Silver I Chains, Charms, Bracelets & Rings I the shot clock for all games next season. 
Students and Staff must present this Coupon or ID I 
The clock, similar to the 24­
for 10 percent Off-Offer Good Through March 31. 1985 I 
second clock used by the pi'os, was Great American Jewelers I used exprimentally by 23 confer· University Park Mall -On The Concourse I ences during the 1984·85 season. It Checks Welcome • Visa (directly In front of Browns Spo•tlng Goods) I 
is not, however, part of the national
Mastercard • American Express (219) 277-3353 I Layaways and Repair Serv~ce championship tournament which continues tomorrow with the Final Four · Memphis State vs. Villanova
~-------------------------~ 
and St. John's vs. defending cham· pion Georgetown. 
The NCAA will meet next week to vote formally on the shot clock. A two-thirds majority of the rules
SENIORS 
committee is needed for passage. 
Remember to make 
GRADUATION PLANS 
with .parents for 
GO HRWRIIRn 
Commencement Weekend May 17-19th 
VIDEO PRHTY 
~ FRI., ffiRRCH 291h, 9:30 Pffi FBI, MAY 17 -Senior Class Cocktail 
JbGRRCE HRLL PRRTY ROOm
Dance -ACC North Dome tickets requited 
REFRESHMENTS DOOR PRIZES THROUGH­Pina Coladas OUT THE EVEN lNG
SAT, MAY 18-DinnerIACC North Dome 
Mai-Tais Dinners for two at
SUN, MAY 19-Brunch 
Munchies Tippecanoe 
Soft Drinks
No./So. Dining Halls 
Pizzas 
...uL i.n tlrace's tux.uri.ous Party Room wi.th wide-screen videos. 
Ti.cltets on sme at llrace t(a(L lobby .usr.,, 6-11 P.M..
Orderform h011 been sent to parents. Must be returned to CCE by April 23rd 

HISTORIC EVENING OF EXCITEMENT 

ZAHM HALL THANKS: SECRETARY /PUBLICITY: TREASURER: 
HALL COMMISSIONERS 
ACADEMIC: 
• 
ATHLETIC: 
Interhall-Intrahall-
LITURGICAL: SOCIAL: 
VOLUNTEER SERVICES: FRESHMAN ORIENTATION: 
NEWSLETTER: FILM: TECHNICAL: 
JUDICIAL BOARD: 
Commissioner-Members: 
Alternates: 
FOR A JOB WELL DONE 
Steve VanDerhoef 
"The likelihood of it failing is almost nil," Steitz said. A year ago it fell just short of a two-thirds vote. 
"But considering the results ofthe questionnaire, considering the data we've received from the confer· ences that have researched and ex· perimented with the clock · 19 in Division I, three in Division II and three in Division III it appears there is a very strong mandate to adopt it," Steitz said. 
The support wasn't as strong for two possible solutions to late-game fouling -one or two shots and retain· ing possession ( 44 percent approval by responding coaches) or giving the team fouled the right to waive the shots and inbound the ball again, as is done in Olympic play (50 per· 
~ent). 
Fifty-five percent urged stricter enforcement of rim-hanging viola· tions. But only 28 percent sup· ported widening the three-second lane to reduce rough play. Coaches also reversed their opinion on the coaching box inaugurated for 1984· 
85. A year ago, 61 percent opposed ir. Now, Steitz said, 63 percent ap­proved · along with 92 percent of the officials who responded. 
Close to 4,000 questionnaires 
ENTERTAINING •INFORMATIVE • FUN 
Jeff Sayre Milt Miyashiro 
Dave Delahanty 
Applications for Off 
Fran O'Malley 
Campus Coordinators 
Pete Murphy Brian Kitz 
available in Student 
Chris Ishikawa John Krappman 
Government Offices 
Chris Edwards Dan Bender 
Openings in the 
following commissions: 
Bob Manning 
Jack Gibbons 
• Liturgical 
Tom Schwarz 
•social eAthletic 
Jose Fernandez 
eSocial Concerns/ 
Jeff McClure 
Community Affairs 
Mike Spretnjak Mike Sullivan 
•Treasurer
Mark Palaski 
Dave Delahanty 
Must be living Off Campus next year
Tad Brown 
Deadline: Monday, April1 Any questions? Call Beaver: 2225 
were sent out to NCAA, NAIA and junior college coaches, college ad· ministrators, referees and media. There was a 55 percent response, or 2,188. 
Steitz said the NCAA also will be looking at installing the three-point field goal. "Each state high school as­sociation just adopted it, and all of our international competition and the Olympic Games in 1988 will be played with a three-point line. But it's out 2 feet beyond what we have experimented with for the past two or three years;'' he said. 
Golf 
continuedfrom page 16 
year's team since only three of the 
team's six golfers have earned letters 
previously. 
Freshman Rich Connelly begins 
this spring season as the only fresh­
man on the gold team (starting six). 
Having missed all-conference 
honors by a single stroke last fall, 
Connelly is expected to be a major 
contributor this spring. 
Another newcomer to the gold 
team, juniorJohn Anthony, earned a 
spot in the starting six this year and 
wasted no time in making his contri­
bution. Anthony finished third for 
Notre Dame and 12th overall in the 
team's recent match in Florida. 
Steve Fuhrer is the third member of the team who has not previously earned a letter. According to O'Sullivan, Fuhrer has the skill to contribute right away. He was the winner of the 1984 Notre Dame Open and an all-conference golfer last fall. "His credentials speak for themselves," says O'Sullivan. 
Sophomore Chris Bona and junior 
Lon Huffman both lettered last year, 
and their experience will be needed 
if the Notre Dame golf team is to 
reach its potential. Both had impres­
sive fall seasons and can be counted 
on to be equally as impressive this 
spring. 
Leading the team will be junior 
captain John O'Donovan, last year's 
most valuable player. O'Donovan is 
not only the number one golfer and 
captain ofthe golf team, but he is the 
number one skier and captain of the 
ski team. 
"God made a machine in John 
O'Donovan," O'Sullivan says. "I 
think he is the best athlete on this 
campus pound for pound." 
Coach O'Sullivan's confidence in 
this year's team may best be il­
lustrated by the team photographs 
in his office. Only four team pictures 
have earned their way onto his office 
walls. When asked about this year's 
team, O'Sullivan replied, "There is 
definitely a place for them on this 
wall." 
Bookstore women's div. signups Sun. 
The time has arrived for all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women to sign up for women's Bookstore Bas­ketball. Registration is this Sunday, March 31, from 2 p.m. to 3:30p.m. by the Ombudsman bar on the first floor of LaFortune. As with men's Bookstore, the fee is $5. 
Eligibility for the tournament ex· tends to all graduate and undergrad· uate Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women, as well as to female staff and faculty. No one can play for more than one team, and keep in mind that no more than one past or present varsity basketball player (NO or 
SMC) is allowed on any one team. 
The women's tournament runs from Saturday, April 13, through Sunday, April 28. There will be a mandatory captain's meeting on Wednesday, April 3, from 7 p.m. to 8 
p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. 
The Observer Friday, March 29, 1985 -page 12 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 10 
An interhalllacrosse league is being formed 
by NVA. The deadline for entries is Monday, April 8. For more infor· mation, call the NVAoffice at 239-6100. · 1be Obseroer 
Interhall baseball umpires are being sought 
by NVA. Anyone who is interested may fill out an application at the NVAoffice. •The Obseroer 
Six-mile and three-mile runs will be held by 
NVA on Saturday, April 20. T-shirts will be awarded to all finishers, and a trophy will be awarded to the top finisher in each of the five divisions: men's undergraduate, women's undergraduate, men's graduate, women's graduate, and faculty and staff. An entry fee of $4 is due by Friday, April 12, in the NVAoffice. -1be Obseroer 
An interhall tennis tournament will be 
held by NVA on Saturday, April 20. Each hall may enter two singles players and two doubles teams; no player may play both singles and doubles. Team rosters for the single-elimination tournament are due by Friday, April 12, in the NVAoffice. · 1be Obseroer 
Think you're a better refthan those in the Big Ten? Perhaps you would like to reffor Non-Varsity Athletics and the Bookstore Basketball tournament. Ifso, call Mike Dunn at the NVA office ( 239-6100). Previous experience is preferred but not neces­sarily required. -1be Obseroer 
A Knute Rockne memorial Mass and break· 
fast will be held on Sunday by the Notre Dame Club of St. joseph Valley at 9 a.m. In the West side of the South Dining Hall. For more information or to make reservations, call Pat Novitzki at 237·'5392. · 
1be Obseroer 
The Athletic and Convocation Center 
will now close daily at 11 p.m. The ACC opens at 8 a.m. · 1be Obsen1er 
WVFI Sports has announced some recent appointments, effective Monday. Kevin Herbert andJoe Malvezzi were named assis­tant sports directors. Pete Pranica will continue as sports director and Chuck Freeby will remain associate sports director. The station still has several openings for anyone interested in covering interhall, club and varsity sport.~. No experience is required. For more infor­mation, call Pranica at 239·'5379 or 283-1938. ·The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through llmrsday until 4 p.m. lit the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written. · 1be Obseroer 
1985 

s 

SESSIONS 
Day or evening classes • Wide array of courses in Business, Arts and Sciences, Education, Nursing • All summer courses applicable to regular Loyola University degrees • Classes at the Lake Shore. Water Tower, and Medical Center Campuses. Special this summer: Art and Archaeology in Mexico. 
FIRST SESSION SECOND SESSION 
(6 weeks beginning May 20) (6 weeks beginning July 2) Registration by mail or in person: Registration by mail or in person: MAY 13, 9:00-12:00 NOON JUNE 17, 9:00-12:00 NOON 
2:00-6:00 PM 2:00-6:00 PM 
All in-person registrations in the Georgetown Room of the Marquette Center, 820 North Rush Street, Chicago 
Telephone 312/670-3011 or complete the coupon below to receive a copy of the 1985 Bulletin of The Summer Sessions. The Bulletin includes complete course listings as well as information on how to regis· ter by mail.
,.,__,_________________,___., 
I 'IJ.f The Summer Sessions LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 820 North Michigan Avenue • Chicago, Illinois 60611 
NAME PHONE 
I 
1 
ADDRESS'-----------------------------------------------CITY STATE ZIP 
I
L-----..::::=.::l=:e:.::::.____N~ 
Captain 
continuedfrom page 16 
"It was kind ofan assumption with the group of guys I played golf with in high school that you would go on to college and play competitively," says O'Donovan. "It was assumed I would play golf, it was just a ques­tion ofwhere." 
O'Donovan considered attending a southern school where he could play golf year round, but he also placed a high priority on academics. Despite having an abbreviated golf season, O'Donovan found Notre Dame's golfteam, led by head coach Noel O'Sullivan, to his liking. 
Once at Notre Dame, O'Donovan 
found that college presented re­
sponsibilities and distractions that 
were not present in high school. 
"The way of life changes," says O'Donovan. "There's a lot more work you never had to do in high school. There's more distractions." 
O'Donovan cites this as one ofthe reasons his average increased by overfive strokes from his senior year in high school to his freshman year at Notre Dame. Eventually, O'Donovan gained tournament ex­perience, which he believes is cru­cial. 
"Just going out there and playing, even though it's raining, even though it's forty degrees," says O'Donovan: "it gets frustrating." 
O'Donovan's role as captain ofthe 
golf team is different than if he 
played more of a team-oriented 
sport. The team does not usually practice as a group and strategy is left up to the individual. His most im­portant contribution comes from being the experienced veteran. Whatever the situation, from a pres' sure filled tournament to freezing weather, the rest of the team knows O'Donovan will come ready to play. 
"John has not lost the title as Mr. Cool," says O'Sullivan. "He performs beautifully under pressure." 
"I try to lead by example," says O'Donovan. "I think it helps to see somebody who's sticking it out and working hard." . 
O'Donovan is quick to point out that his teammates gladly follow his lead. 
"The guys we have this year are 
great because they do so much by 
themselves," says O'Donovan. 
"They don't need much captaining." 
O'Donovan's primary goal this season is to be consistent. He points out that the best golfer only Wins forty percent of the time, but being consistel\tly among the leaders is the sign of success. For O'Donovan this would mean being in the top twenty of every tournament and 
even in the top ten at some ofthe big tournaments. He hopes his consis­tent success will be recognized by the coaches who send out invita· tions for the NCAA tournament. 
I 
II 

Pizza HufDelivers -----......--------­

I $2 OFF any Large Pizza I or $1 OFF any Medium 
Please mention coupon when ordering. One coupon perparty per delivery 
I
I 
at parttctpatmg Ptzza Hut· Spectal Delivery'" units. Not valid for dine-in or carry-out, or in combination with any other Pizza Hut· offer. Limited Delivery 
I
I 
Area. Offer good only on regular menu prices through April12. 1985. Our drivers carry no more than $20 cash. Cash value 1120C 
~ 1985 Pizza Hut. frye. 
Free Delivery! Call: 232-2499 I
I 00~~ I 
l.!izza Hut is Rollin'Now!,M 4.-?op.m.-2.-ooa.m..Fri.-sat. .J
4.00 p.m.-12M, Sun.·Thurs. 
One· of the lessons he has learned from his experience as a collegiate golfer is that the best results are achieved not by taking too many chances but rather by shooting for par on each hole. For John O'Donovan, continued success sounds like par for his golf career's course. 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
force Gallo to change Notre Dame's 
pitching lineup. 
As it stands right now, joe Dobosh and Buster Lopes will start tomor­row's games against Indiana. Sunday, Mark Watzke is scheduled to start the first game against Northwestern. Gallo will decide upon a starter for the second game after evaluating the action from the first three games. 
Indiana, after playing several games in Florida, will bring a 30-6 record tojake Kline field. Northwes­tern, which finished second to Mic­higan for the Big Ten title last year, brings a 9·3 ledger into this weekend's action. 
"We are playing two very fine teams," Gallo said. "I am confident though, that our players can play with this calibre of team. The guys are very anxious to play. I just hope that they are not too anxious." 


--~ ~--_.----...--~ ~--------­
~-~ ~ -----~--------.....-~---­
The Observer Friday, March 29, 1985 -page 13 
Point-shaving scandal discussed on news show 
Two Tulane players testify; student arrested 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS-Two Tulane Uni­versity basketball players testified before a grand jury yesterday, and af­terward another student was ar­rested on bribery charges in the point-shaving scandal involving the Green Wave team. 
Mark Olensky, 21, a senior from Fair Lawn, N.J., who is not on the team, surrendered to District Attor­ney Harry Connick and was booked on two counts of bribery of sports participants, Connick's office said. 
He was the ftfth student arrested in the case. 
Olensky, who also was booked on charges of conspiracy to bribe and conspiracy to distribute cocaine, was freed on 59,000 bond. 
Connick said the investigation by the Orleans Parish grand jury would -continue next week and no indict­
ments were reported. 
The only testimony yesterday came from two players who reportedly have immunity from pro­secution. 
Coach Ned Fowler and eight other players were at the court­house, but they did not testify. The eight teammates, under subpoena, were told to return next yesterday. Fowler's lawyer said the coach was told he will be rescheduled for a later appearance. 
The only members ofthe team not at the courthouse yesterday were the three players booked on gam­bling law violations earlier this week. 
Green Wave star John Williams, 
23, a 6-foot-10 all-conference cen: 
ter, was arrested Tuesday night at his 
home. He later denied any wrongdo­
ing. On Wednesday, sophomore 
swingman David Dominique of New 
Iberia, La., and senior guard Bobby 
Thompson of New Orleans surren­
dered to officers. 
Williams, Thompson and Dominique are accused of shaving points -either winning by a lower margin or losing by a greater margin than the established "line" on the game. 
All three were freed without baiL 
Also arrested Tuesday was Gary Kranz, 21, of New Rochelle, NY, a Tulane student booked on cocaine dealing as well as gambling law vio­lations. He was released on n 0,000 surety bond. 
The maximum penalty for viola­tion ofLouisiana's sports bribery law is five years in jail and a Sl0,000fine. 
Connick said the investigation 
still centers on two Metro Confer­
ence games -feb. 20 with Memphis 
State and Feb. 2 with Southern Mis­
sissippi in the Tulane arena. 
Connick said the National Col­
legiate Athletic Association had 
been alerted and was conducting its 
own investigation. 
Clyde Eads, 22, a starting senior from Tampa, Fla., one of the two players reportedly granted immu­nity, was in the grand jury room more than two hours. Jon Johnson, 22, a starting senior from Columbus, Ga., testified after Eads. 
Tulane finished the season 15-13 overall and 6-8 in conference play. 
Digger Phelps comments on ABC Nightline 
By PHIL WOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 
Notre Dame basketball coach Dig­ger Phelps appeared last night on ABC News Nightline to field ques­tions regarding gambling in college basketball. 
The show's host, Ted Koppel, posed his questions to Phelps and gambling expert Jimmy "The Greek" Snyder. 
Koppel quoted figures that show that gamblin~ on colle~e athletic contests is widespread. He said that approximately $7.6 billion is bet legally on college basketball and football every year, and illegal gam­bling is said to account for another 
57-8 billion. 
Phelps claimed that one thing that can be done to prevent players from becoming involved in "point­shaving" schemes is to educate players at an early age about the evils of gambling and drug abuse, two 
problems which he said are related. 
Phelps also voiced his opinion that the NCAA should attach stronger penalties to all violations of rules, especially drug abuse. He said he feels that players should become inelligble as a punishment for any major offense. 
Finally, Phelps stressed that col-­leges can help curb their problems by carefully selecting their stu­dent/athletes and making sure the players can make the grade in the classroom. 

RESPOND TO FINANCIAL AID CUTS! 
Members of the Senate Appropriations CommiHee, the commiHee which considers the budget proposals are the following U.S. Senators: 
Ted Stevens, AK ~ Frank R. Laufenberg, NJ Dennis DeConcini, AZ Pete V. Domenici, NM Dale Bumpers-, AR Alfcmse M. D'Amato, NY Lowell P. Welcker, Jr., CT Mark Andrews, ND Lawton Chiles, FL Quentin N. Burdick, ND Mack Mattingly, GA Arlen Specter, PA Daniel K. Inouye, HI Ernest F. Hollings, SC James A. McClure, ID James Abdner, SD Tom Harkin, lA Jim Sasser, TN 
J. Bennett Johnston, LA Jake Garn, UT Thad Cochran, MS Patrick J. Leahy, VT John C. Stennis, MS Robert C. Byrd, WV Paul Laxalt, NV Robert W. Kasten, Jr., WI Warren Rudman, NH William Proxmire, WI 
Mark 0. Hatfield, OR Committee Chairman 
If you are a resident of one of the following states, please address your leHer to the senator(s) specified: 
~
Algbgmg IQQhQ OklgbQmg Jeremiah Denton Steven D. Symms David Boren 
Don Nickles Arizona lndjgng Dennis DeConcini Richard G. Lugar !Hgh Barry Goldwater JakeGarn 
(QYlQ Orrin Hatch ~olorado Charles E. Grassley William L. Armstrong Vjrg!nlg 
Kansas PaulS. Trible D~lgware Robert J. Dole William V. Roth Wisconsin 
Montgng William Proxmire Georgia Max Baucus Bob Kasten Sam Nunn Mack Mattingly Nebraska 
Edward Zorinsky 
J. James Exon 

ADDRESS THE LETTERS TO: Senator _____ United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 
The Observer Friday, March 29, 1985-page 14 
Mary Colligan sets example for women's tennis 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
It takes more than just talent to 
win. Winning the NCAA Division II 
National Championship requires 
hard work, long hours and dedica­
tion. 
This afternoon, the Notre Dame women's tennis team begins a five­hour journey to battle Bradley Uni­versity and then Drake University tommorow morning. On Sunday, the Irish return home to play host to the Indiana Hoosiers at l 0 a.m. 
'Ihroughout this gruelling three­meet weekend, the Irish will rely heavily on the determination and finesse of junior Mary Colligan. Playing at number two singles and doubles, Colligan has tallied an im­pressive 8-l singles record and a 7-2 doubles mark since the beginning of the spring season, making her a valuable asset to this ambitious Irish squad. 
"She's deceptive to the opponent because of her long reach," says Notre Dame coach Sharon Petro. "She gets the ball back over the net and opponents know they've got to hustle against her." 
Colligan started for the Irish in the top singles spot during her freshman year after teammate Susie Panther was benched with an injury. Last season, she refined her court play in the number-three singles position. 
While Colligan admits she still needs to work on her footwork and 
Defense 
continuedfrom page 16 
believe that the people that will be 
coming in behind them and taking 
their place are going to do a very 
good job. We're not going to be 
predominantly weaker because we 
have to play with a defensive tackle 
other than Mike Gann or a defensive 
back other than Joe Johnson. We 
will definitely miss them, but the 
people coming in, in those positions, 
will be able to complement our 
defense well." 
Competition for the left tackle 
spot also will see junior Greg Din­
gens and freshman Jeff Kunz in the 
running, while sophomore Griffin 
will continue to plug up the middle 
and sophomore Wally Kleine will 
continue to contain from the right side of the line. 
At the linebacker position, senior co-captain Mike Larkin will be back and probably will move outside to aid sophomore Robert Banks and junior Rick DiBernardo. Inside, junior co-captain Tony Fur)anic once again will be joined by sopho­more Mike Kovaleski and junior Ron Weissenhofer. 
Kovaleski and DiBernardo, however, will be out of action for the spring season. Kovaleski will be recovering from a broken col­larbone while DiBernardo will be nursing a wrist injury. 
In the defensive backfield, Ballage 
and Wells will be joined by sop­
homores Hiawatha Francisco, James 
Bobb, Steve Lawrence, Troy Wilson 
and Marv Spence and junior Mike improve her quickness on the court, her lean 5-I 1 frame and aggressive net play provides a formidable chal­lenge to unsuspecting opponents. 
"I've always tried to be my own player and do the most with my abil­ity and use my talents," says the Fort Wayne native. "I've learned to take advantage of good serves and 
develop an all-around  smarter  
game."  
Colligan  and  senior  doubles  

partner Usa LaFratta are a balanced unit on the court. Where Colligan easily puts the ball away at the net, LaFratta scrambles to complement her play. 
"Sometimes we really look like Mutt ;md Jeff out there because she is so tall," explains LaFratta. "She never gives up. She's like a human ball machine and hits everything back. It wears the opponent out and frustrates the opponent too." 
"We make a good combination," says Colligan. "Lisa is quicker on the court and I'm more comfortable at the net." 
After hearing colorful stories about the University while she was growing up, the decision to come to Notre Dame after high school was easy for Colligan. Her father and six uncles are Notre Dame graduates and her brother and younger sister are currently attending the Univer­sity, so Notre Dame has become a household word in the Colligan fam­ily. 
Haywood. 
"We're still changing players around and trying to get a feel for who can do well at each position," says Christoff. 
According to Furjanic, however, whoever will be starting for the de­fensive unit will be a part of a more intense 1985 squad dedicated to dominating and not being dominated. Also, this year's squad will look to improve upon its unity, said the Irish co-captain. 
"We're developing a tougher atti­tude," says Furjanic. "We're stronger this year, as far as we're not going to be pushed around. 
"We also have to improve upon our unity as a team. When we make a tackle, we just don't want one guy 
there,  we  want  the  whole unit  
there."  
Overall,  Christoff  says  he  is  

pleased with the progress of the defense from its initial implementa­tion last year. He sees good things ahead for the Irish, who will face many of the same types of attacks once again in the fall. 
"We've worked very hard in the off-season this year and we're a lot more experienced than we were last year," explains Christoff. "We have nine ofeleven starters returning and th'e attitude is very good. We also have seen a vast improvement over last year in the things that we're stressing this spring. We feel that we should be better on defense thi~ year." 
Before the defensive unit takes the field each time, it will rely upon the special teams to put the opposi­tion as deep into its own territory as possible. The responsibilty for 
In her four years at Bishop Luers High School in Fort Wayne, Colligan accumulated an amazing 54-1 record and her team was undefeated from 1978-1982. During her senior year, Colligan served as captain of both the tennis and the volleyball teams. When she came to Notre Dame, she realized there was time for only one sport and decided to give up volleyball. 
"I enjoyed volleyball, but tennis 
was always the primary sport," she 
says. "I was nine or ten when I 
started. Tennis has always been with 
me and it's a part ofmy life. I love the 
sport and I'm glad I stuck with it." 
With the loss of four seniors next 
year and the team's switch from 
Division II t6 Division I, Colligan 
says she hopes to assume an active 
leadership role on the court. 
"I want to take more responsibil­ity and be more ofa leader," she says. "I'll need to motivate the rest and keep a good attitude." 
Petro also. sees Colligan with an expanded leadership role next year as long as the government major polishes her leadership skills. 
"We'll have a lot offreshmen com­ing in next year and we'll look to the older kids for leadership," explains Petro. "Mary needs to work on her leadership skills and be more self confident offcourt." 
While the Irish don't anticipate too much difficulty defeating Drake 
burying the other team in their own 
territory basically rests on the foot 
of the punter. 
In May, the Irish will lose senior Mike Viracola to graduation. In 1984, Viracola provided the Irish with strong consistency as both the starting punter and the holder for 
extra-point kicks. 
Competing for the punting pos­tion this spring will be junior Hal Von Wyl and sophomore Dan Soren­son. Ifneither of these two wins the spot outright, the Irish might then look to fill the spot with starting quarterback Steve Beuerlein. 
According to quarterback coach Ron _Hudson, the Irish would not hesitate to use the sophomore quar­terback. 
In the end, if the Irish are to im­
prove as a team, they must 
strengthen their defense against the 
option and must better their pursuit 
from the secondary. Once the oppo­
sition gets the ball, it will be up to 
Christotrs unit to stop them in their 
tracks and give the ball back to the 
offense. 
IRISH ITEMS -The first Irish scrimmmage of the spring, tomor­row morning at 9:45 in the Stadium, will be closed to the public... Next week, the team has practices on Monday and Tuesday afternoons and a scrimmage on Wednesday after­noon before Easter break. 
"DON'T BLAME ME! I VOTED FOR MONDALE!" 
Bumperstickers for only $2: 
B.P., P.O. Box 433 
Edison, NJ 08818 and Bradley this weekend, they 
know they'll have their hands full 
when the Hooisers come to town. 
Sunday's match against IU is the first 
meeting between the Irish and the 
top-ranked Hoosiers, and Petro says 
she hopes her squad will make a 
strong enough showing to start a 
new rivalry. 
"IU rarely leaves Bloomington and hopefully we'll be able to start a new relationship," says Petro. "They don't concentrate on doubles. We do. If we concentrate on our doubles, we'll pull off some good matches." 
Sunday's meet with Indiana will be Notre Dame's toughest contest of the season and the Irish know they must play the best tennis in the team's history to beat the Hoosiers. 
"We'll go from not having to work so hard to having to work our hard­est," says LaFratta. "We're not count­ing on beating them; we just want a good showing so they'll play us again." 
"I never take any match as a pus­hover," says Colligan. "Bradley and Drake are not as tough as our other matches, but they'll be important (to prepare) for IU." 
Irish can experiment at Notre Dame Invitational 
The Notre Dame men's track team will have an opportunity to 
experiment and discover its strengths tomorrow when the Irish play 
host to the Notre Dame Invitational. Field events will begin at 1 p.m. 
and the running events will start at 2 p.m. 
The eight-team field will include Mid-American Coference power 
Western Michigan, Ball State and Loyola. 
According to head coach Joe Plane, the non-scoring meet gives him flexibility to test athletes in different events. Field events per­sonnel, such as James Patterson who will run the 100, are given the chance to participate in running events. This meet will allow more 
athletes to compete since the NCAA restriction of three people per event does not apply. 
In addition, Plane can rest athletes who will have to participate in two or three events at next week's triangular meet with Indiana and Michigan State. 

WSND-Notre Dame Public Radio is currently accepting applications for the positions of: 
-Station Manager -Program Supervisor -Music Director 
-Production Coordinator -Business Manager 
Applications should contain a resume and a brief statement of intent and may be dropped off at the Office if Student Activities. ( )
239_7308 9_5 For further information, call283-4184 (evenings) 


The 1986 DOME  
Now accepting applications for: -Photography Editor -Managing Editor -Copy Editor -Section Editors -Business Manager  Applications are available in the Student Activities Office and must be returned before Easter Break.  

~4CJt4:1lC3L~----------------------------------------F-r-id_a_y_,M_a_r_c_h_2_9_,1_9_8_5___
P_ag•e-1..5 
Bloom County 
Zeto 
LCOK ~"t ATL I'LL BET vou CANT 
IlL ADMIT I'M ABIT EVEN CLIM13 THf LE6 
00 THE" ABUNDANT OF THAT LOFT. 
S/f)C••• 
HA! £TANP &c.K 
~!> FE REJlT)( TO 
OLLW1-IEAT1Es! 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 With -breath 6 Baby's domain 
10 Belfry 
inhabitants 14 Banished one 15 Fixed routine 16 Literary pen 
name 17 Cubs and Tigers 18 That hurts! 19 Tibetan 
gazelles 20 Ponchielli 
number 23 Devious 24 Appraise 25 Workweek 
starter 26 Old·time Giant 27 Libertine 28 WWII site 31 Alex Haley work 33 Adage 36 Hero 40 Still 41 Fountain items 
©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
42 Black 

Berke Breathed 


Kevin Walsh 

0 

Disaster befalls Professor Schnabel's cleaning lady when she mistakes his 
All Rights Reserved
43 Arrive 44 Pubdrlnk 46 Sovereign's B Seven year ­
seat 9 Huge creature 49 Poi source 10 Get lost! 51 Ribbed fabric 11 Audible 54 Gibson girl 12 Crownlike head 
feature ornament 57 Rara -13 Impudent 58 Gr. letters 21 Cereal grain 59 Fibs 22 Abode 60 Hawaiian goose 26 -Paul Kruger 61 Withered 27 Decays 62 Choose 28 Piggery 63 Once old style 29 Article 64 Meeting: abbr. 30 Tennis term 65 Relaxes 31 Function 
32 FrequentlyDOWN poetically1 Makes crooked 33 Male heir 2 Along a cer· 34 Cold climate 
tain line bird 3 Metallic 35 Contorted 4 Sourceof 37 Surrounded by 
energy: abbr. 38 Anonymous5 Sandy waste 39 Speed6 Small field in 43 Girdle's 
Eng. predecessor 7 Highway 44 Sandy's sound 
3/29/85 
Thursday's Solution 

C A S A R I S E.E R S E 
A R .E T E T 0 E 0 L A c y S E C 0 N D H A N D OBOL ~J.:~IDAINTY 
0 R EM 
NINA RUN ORC­
[lis 
E'rt'D E R • As E 1 A 1 
~I N S 0 L E NIT I 
• ME ANIDIEtirfl
IIH IIS 
P AN I C 8 R 0 ILA N T A. FirJJ:J_~ ~~J_
1-R I 0 M E A 0 D E S 
A M 0 R A L li Al" F R E T 
S E C "lit"''"' TAT E
T A U T S A N E R 0 T E A 
I L L S A D D S P E R K 
3/29/85 
45 Hang around 50 Dolts 
46 Macbeth's 51 Regulations title 52 Upright 47 Hang suspended 53 Bothersome 48 Archaeology critters stuff 55 Suit to ­
49 Despots 56 Strong wind 
HARRISON FORD in INDIANA JONES: TEMPLE OF DOOM (c'mon girls-we know you love him!) 
. 
Campus 
Friday, March 29 
•Last 
DayFor Course Discontinuance 

•11:30 
a.m.-2 p.m.-Ice Cream Social, 1st Floor Fitzpatrick Hall, 1/2 Proceeds Go ToMS Campaign, Sponsored by Tau Beta Pi, Engi­neering Week, $.50 Sundae. 

•12 
p.m. · Debate, "The Transmission of Values in Education," Prof. John Coons, U. of California, Berkelely and Dr. Amy Gutmann, Princeton, Room 10 I Law School. 

•12:
15 -1 p.m. -Faculty Fonun, "International Perspectives on the Bishops' Pastoral Letter on the U.S. Economy," Rev. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C., NO, Center for Social Concerns, Brown Bag or Soup and Bread, $1. 

•3:30 
p.m. -Calculator War: HP vs. TI, In Front ofCushing Hall, Sponsored by Engineer­ingWeek. 

•4 
p.m.-Graduate Seminar, "Transient FTIR Studies of Multiplicity and Oscillatory Behav­ior in CO Oxidation on Pt/Si02 and Pd/Si02 Catalysts," David Kaul, NO Graduate Chemi­cal Engineering Student, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "Unipotent Conjugacy Classes and Local Sys­tems," Prof. George Lusztig, MIT, Room 226 CCMB . 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.-Fllm, "Indiana Jones: Temple of Doom," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 

•7:30 
& 9:40p.m. -FridayNightFUm Series, "The Shining," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -SMC Performing Arts Series, Czech Chamber Soloists, O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m.-Play, "Barefoot in the Park," Chatau­qua Ballroom, LaFortune, Donations Go To Sowder Scholarship Fund, Sponsored by Cavanaugh Hall Productions, Free. 

•9:30 
p.m. -Go Hawaiian Party, Grace Hall Party Room, Door Prizes, All Invited, 51. 


Showing tonight and tomorrow night, March 28 &29 
1'he Couoa Club" "Gone With The Wind"
at the Engineering Auditorium. 
"Footloose" "Bachelor Party"
7:00, 9:15, 11:30 $1.50 
time machine for a new dryer. 
Saturday, March 30 
•Outdoor 
Track ND Invitational, ND Track (Behind ACC). . 

•12 
p.m. · Golf, NO vs. Tri State, Bruke Memorial Golf Course. 

•1 
p.m. -Baseball, NO vs. Indiana, Jake Kline Field. 

•1
:30 p.m. -Lacrosse, ND vs. Kenyon, Cartier Field. 

•
7, 9:15 & II:30 p.m. -Fllm, "Indiana Jones: Temple of Doom," Engineering Auditoriu11.1, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 

•8 
p.m. -Play, "Barefoot in the Park," Chatau­qua Ballroom, LaFortune, Donations Go To Sowder Scholarship Fund, Sponsored by Cavanaugh Hall Productions, Free. 

•7 
p.m.-Concert, Loras College Choir Tour Concert, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Department of Music. 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, SMC Women's Choir and Wabash College Men's Glee Club, Little Theatre (SMC). 


Sunday, March 31 
•10 
a.m. -Tennis, NO Women vs. Indiana, Courtney Courts. 

•11 
a.m. -Nationally ·Televised Mass (NBC), Sacred Heart Church, Admission by Ticket Only. 

•12 
p.m. -Golf, NO vs. Xavier, Burke· 

• 
Memorial GolfCourse. 

•1 
p.m. -Professional Wrestling Match, Closed Telecast From Madison Square Gar­den, Sponsored by MS Campaign, Student Tickets $8. 

•1 
p.m. -Baseball, ND vs. Northwestern, Jake Kline Field. 

•4 
p.m. -Concert, Karen Buranskas, Faculty Cello Recital, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•
7 & 9: 1 5 p.m. · Fllm, "Brother Sun, Sister Moon," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Social Concerns Spring Film Series, $1. 

•7:15 
p.m. -An Tostal General Meeting, Hayes Healy Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, Chicago Club, Little Theater, LaFortune. 


¥our Student Activities Board 
(The leader In ..tenaln•ent)  .~-'­ 
is stiU woddag...  '  
Yettoco•e:  ~  

More Movies••• 
AaTostal Festlvitle8 The Collegiate Jazz Fe8tival 
i l 
j 
j 
~ 
1 
l 

Friday, March 29, 1985-page 16
S~orts 
Notre Dame defense matures, grows accustomed to system 
By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL Christoff. "It was a new year for. the tackle Mike Gann, strong safety joe Sports Writer players, last year, in the system. And, johnson, and outside linebacker as one could see, there was an im­Mike Golic. However, a total of nine In football, defense is the key to provement toward the end of the starters will be returning from the the game. year when they got used to doing 1984 unit to make for a strong 1985 If the opposition can't score, the what they're supposed to be doing." squad with great experience and a 
gam_e cannot be lost. This spring, the Irish will be good amount ofdepth. 
This spring, the Irish will be con­looking to strengthen the defensive According to Christoff, personnel centrating on, among other things, unit against the offensive weapons changes which the Irish currently the continued improvement of a de• that plagued them throughout last are considering include the moving fensive unit that came on strong at season. of junior nose tackle Eric Dorsey the end of the 1984 campaign. "We need to do a better job of from a backup role behind Mike 
In his second year, defensive co­containment, pursuit, and run sup­Griffin out to fill Gann's vacated left ordinator Andy Christoff believes port from the secondary," says tackle spot. Also, freshman Brandy his relatively new defensive system, Christoff. "We feel that we can im­Wells and junior Pat Ball age are which he brought in a year ago, has prove in those areas dramatically being considered to fill Johnson's had time to sink in and take root and really get good at playing the op­vacated strong safety spot. with his players. Evidence ofthis can tion.'' "When you lose quality players, be found in Notre Dame's last four In the spring, the Irish also will be you can't ever say that we're not regular season victories, which looking to replace three standouts going to miss this player or that featured strong defensive efforts. from the defensive side of the ball player," notes Christoff. "I really 
"We're going to try to get better at who will graduate this May. In­see DEFENSE, page 14 what we did last year," explains cluded are all-America defensive 
Conference streak at seven 
lb~ ObKrvcr/FUc Photo 
]obn O'Donovan, tbe junior captain of tbe Irish golf team, will becounted onfor consistent leadership byhis example this season. 
Lacrosse team plays host to Lords 
Sean Murphy previews tbis weekend's matchups and Brian 
By MIKE SULLIVAN team and the win was a real big It will be especially important for
McCarthy gives a profile ofO'Donovatl below. 
Sports Writer boost for them. the Notre Dame offense to show that "They've got a couple of guj'S it can put some points on the The Notre Dame lacrosse team back who didn't play last year for scoreboard consistently. Although 
will be trying to win its second whatever reasons, and that's helped the Irish scored a season-high nine straight Midwest Lacrosse Associa­them out a lot." goals in Wednesday's game, only tion game and raise its overall The Irish have never had too two of.them were scored in the last record to .500 when it entertains much trouble with the Lords, win­37 minutes of the game. Improving 
Record-setters? 
Irish golfers open season 
Kenyon College tomorrow at 1:30 ning all four ofthe contests between the attack is a major concern of 
p.m. on Cartier Field. the two schools, but O'Leary knows 0'Leary's, although he does not plan
at Burke this weekend 
The 2-3 Irish, who, after Wednes­that his team must improve on its to make many lineup changes. 
day's win over Lake Forest, now first five performances ifit is going "I can't afford to make many By SEAN MURPHY have won seven conference games to defend its MLA title successfully. ·lineup changes because we don't Sports Writer in a row beginning last season, will "This is a real important game for have the caliber ofplayers where we 
be looking to improve on their in­us," says the fifth-year coach, can just move starters around," says 
The Notre Dame golf team will play host to two matches this consistent performance so far this "especially after not playing as well O'Leary. "We just need to play bet­weekend at Burke Memorial Golf Course. Tomorrow The Irish will year. However, Kenyon is an im­as we wanted to against Lake Forest. ter as a unit." take on Tri-State, and Sunday a triangular match with Xavier and proving team that should provide ;~ I'm hoping that we'll be able to play IRISH ITEMS -Senior attackman 
Wayne State will be played. tougher challenge for Notre Dame our best and then have it carry over Bob Trocchi, who has nine goals and 
Irish head coach Noel O'Sullivan says this year's team is one ofhis than it did last year when the Irish to the rest of the season. five assists through the first five best ever. In fact, O'Sulllvan has so much confidence in his team's won easily, 17-7. "We have some good games next games, has moved into the No. 2 ability that he says he wants not just a victory, but a course record "Kenyon beat Western Maryland, week (against Radford on W ednes­spot on the all-time Notre Dame 
this weekend. 5-4, in their last game which has got day and Holy Cross on Saturday) scoring list. Although this is only his 
"My first team at Notre Dame once shot a 359 at Burke, a record them pretty excited," says Irish head that we want to do well in, so we third year at Notre Dame, he should that still stands," says O'Sullivan. "I think this year's team has the best coach Rich O'Leary. "Western really need a good performance pass the No. 1 scorer, Steve Pearsall, chance of any I've coached to break that record." Maryland has always had a good against Kenyon." before the end of the year. 
The record O'Sullivan speaks of was set by the Irish golf team against Tri-State on Apri16, 1974. Coach O'Sullivan is an optimist, but not a dreamer, and he is quick 
ND baseball 
to point out why he expects so much from this year's team. "We have had excellent fall and springperformances this year," he says, "and our recent showing in Florida was very encouraging." 
returns home 
O'Sullivan also sees the "youth and enthusiasm" ofthis year's team as a plus. According to the Irish coach, "Young players, or players 
tomorrow
who have not earned ktters before are less likely to become com­placent than the seasoned veteran." If that is the case, complacency should be no problem for this ByKEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
see GOLF, page 11 
The Notre Dame baseball team will open its home season tomor­
John O'Donovan leads 
row, weather permitting, with a doubleheader against Indiana begin­ning at I p.m. The Irish then will play host to Northwestern for two games on Sunday at 1 p.m. Both 
by setting a good example 
By BRIAN McCARTHY 
doubleheaders will be played on 
Sports Writer 
Jake Kline Field. The Irish will be returning to the 
After losing three seniors to graduation last year, the Notre Dame 
diamond for the first time since their 
golf team is extremely short on experience, with one exception. 
spring break Texas road trip. Now,
That exception is two-year letterman john O'Donovan. 
however, there will be no southern 
O'Donovan, a junior, was elected team captain following the 1984 
foes. Instead, Notre Dame will 
spring season and fulfilled the squad's expectations during the fall 
square off against two midwestern 
season by being named most valuable player. In addition, he earned 
schools with impressive records this 
Midwestern City Conference honors for his play. 
season, Indiana. at 30-6 and 
Although he had been golfing since he was eight years old, Northwestern with a ledger of9-3. O'Donovan did not begin competing seriously until he entered For­
The Irish are a little short-handed 
est Hills Central High School in Grand Rapids, Mich. According to 
going into this weekend's action. 
O'Donovan, his high school golfprogram provided the environment 
Starting catcher Dave Clark will be 
necessary to be a successful golfer. 
sidelined with an eye injury which 
"My high school was sort of a hotbed for golf," says O'Donovan. 
he suffered in practice Tuesday.
"We had six or seven golfers in my time there who were really good 
Also, pitcher John Bowen is ques­
golfers. When you get that kind ofatmosphere, really competitive, it 
tionable after a bout with the flu. 
kind of snowballs. It made me want to compete and everyone got 
Head coach Larry Gallo said he had
better." · 
wanted to start Bowen in one of the
This positive high school experience paved the way for 
four games, but his absence will
O'Donovan's college career. Senior co-captain justin Shay will lead the Notre Dame lacrosse 

team into its home game tomorrow against tbe Lords ofKenyon
see CAPTAIN, page 12 
see IRISH, page 12 
College. Mike Sullivan previews the matcbup in his story above. 



