
Tayback a~d the HPC-page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 93 tile independent ~tudent new~paper ~tT\ ing notrt dame ami ~aint man··~ 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1985 

Healy and Lawrence ticket victorious in election 
44 percent of students cast ballots yesterday; voter turnout proves the lowest in five years 
By MARY CAROL CREADON compared to a turnout of 55.1 per· after hearing they had won. Healy Senior StaffReporter cent last year. said he was "thrilled to death about Browne and Cahill received a the senators who won" as well, and Bill Healy and Duane Lawrence total of31 percent ofthe vote, carry· is confident that they will add much carried all but three dorms in yester· ing their home dorms of Stanford credibility to student government as day's race for student body presi· and Lyons in addition to Keenan well as beinggreat for their districts. dent and vice president, handily Hall. In light of the recent controversy defeating the controversial ticket of Healy and Lawrence generated concerning OBUD's withdrawal and Pat Browne andJoanie Cahill. overwhelming support from their Student Senate's subsequent Healy and Lawrence received own dorms, Dillon 094·5) and St. reinstatement of the Browne-Cahill 1,796 votes, 55 percent of the votes Edward's ( 190-18), respectively. candidacy, Healy said he would like cast. Browne and Cahill tallied 1,015 They were also well represented in to "leave it all behind now. The sen· votes or 31 percent. The other 14 Flanner, Grace, and Pasquerilla East. ate decided to throw it to the stu· percent of the vote included write· Healy was extremely happy with dents and the students made their ins and abstentions. the results, saying he wasn't really decision." Healy also said this will be 
Voter turnout was the lowest in at sure which way the vote would go. the "last word I will say about anyth· least five years, totaling 44 percent, Lawrence said he was "relieved" ing that happened." 
Healy and Lawrence agreed it will take some time to regain the stu· dents' confidence in the credibility of student government. They said this will require the help of all in· volved, including Browne and Cahill. "We want and need their help," Healy said. 
Browne phoned Healy at the stu· dent government office and "made a very polite concession speech," said Healy. Both tickets met late last night. 

Healy and Lawrence said, as they stated in their platform, they plan to place "much more stress on the HPC." Healy feels "the HPC deserves more credit than the Student Sen· 
see HEALY, page 3 


Landslide wins dominate in races for five positions in Student Senate 
By MIRIAM HILL  unity on North Quad," which is the  dent Steve Taeyerts defeated both  
Senior StaffReporter  platform on which he ran. Regarding  Peter Blood and Michael Jaeger. "I'm  
the recent problems in the Student  really glad we were able to avoid a  
Landslide victories occurred in all  Senate, Culum said, "Student gov·  run-off. I'm grateful to everyone that  
five  of yesterday's Student Senate  ernment is going to come under a lot  helped me; I couldn't have done it  
races.  of scrutiny from the administration,  without them."  
In District One (Alumni, Carroll,  but I think it's importantwe bury the  Jim  Hagan  won  the off-campus  
Holy Cross, Lewis, St.  Ed's, Sorin,  wounds and go on."  race against Race Thoman by garner·  
Walsh), Chris Abood easily defeated  In District Three (Badin, Dillon,  ing a 61.6 percent share ofthe vote.  
opponent K.M. Burke with  a  70.6  Fisher, Howard, Lyons, Morrissey,  "I'm grateful that the students had  
percent  share  of the  vote.  "I'm  Pangborn),John Ginty won the race  confidence  in  my  ability," Hagan  
happy about the victory. I'm looking  against Tom Browne. Ginty said the  said. In response to questions about  
forward  to  working  with  Bill  new  senators  must  "assess  and  the recent problems in the Student  
(Healy) and Duane (Lawrence)."  decide what to do about the image  Senate, Hagan said, "It's unfortunate  
K.C. Culum emerged victorin Dis·  ofthe Student Senate."  that we have to inherit the legacy of  
trict  Two  (Cavanaugh,  Breen·  District  Four  (Flanner,  Grace,  their mistakes. I plan to work within  
Phillips,  Keenan,  Stanford,  Zahm,  Pasquerilla East, Pasquerilla West)  the Senate as well as outside of it as  
Farley), where he ran  unopposed.  was the only race with more than  an  advocate  for  off-campus  stu·  
Culum said he hopes to "promote  two  candidates,  and  Flanner resi·  dents."  


Election Tally 
Number Percent 
The Obstrvcr /Mary Flynn 
Bill Healy and Duane Lawrence celebrate their win yesterday. Story at left. 
El Salvador's Duarte chosen as Commencement speaker 
By KAREN MC CLOSKEY 
News staff 

Jose Napolean Duarte, president of the Republic of El Salvador, has been chosen to address the graduates of Notre Dame at this year's commencement exercises. 
Duarte will receive an honorary doctor of law degree when he at· tends the 140th commencement exercises in the Athletic and Con· vocation Center May 19. 
A 1948 graduate of the Univer· sity with a bachelor's degree in civilian to be popularly elected to the presidency of El Salvador in more than fifty years. He is the first Notre Dame aiumnus to become a head ofstate. 
Duarte was invited to address the graduates by University Presi· dent Father Theodore Hesburgh. After Duarte confirmed the invita· tiou, the selection was presented to the Board of Trustees at its meeting this past weekend. 
According to Hesburgh, "The 

Itt!.
board was very happy about it." Asked why Duarte was chosen, 

u 
ommended by a wide variety of people at the University. He is the first Notre Dame man to be named head ofstate." 
Officials at the University have planned to present Duarte with an honorary degree since his election in 1984. 
Although the topic of Duarte's address has not been announced, Hesburgh commented, "Being a graduate, he knows what he will say to graduates." 
Hesburgh added he may offer a few suggestions for the theme of 
Hesburgh first met Duarte in 1945 when Duarte and his brother Rolando were attending the Uni· versity. 
"(It was) the first class I taught in 1945," Hesburgh recalled. It was a "class on moral virtue, especially on social justice," Hesburgh said. 
The last time that Duarte and Hesburgh met in person was in 1982. The occasion was the elec· tion of EI Salvador's Constituent Assembly. Hesburgh was part ofa 
Pat Browne­Joanie Cahill 
v-Bill Healy-Duane Lawrence 
District 1 v-Chris Abood 
K.M. Burke 
District 2 ~ K.C.Culum 
District 3 
r/ John Ginty Tom Browne 
District 4 t/ Stephen Taeyaerts Peter Blood Michael Jaeger 
District 5 
r/ Jim Hagan Race Thoman 
1051  31  
1796  55  
426 177  70_6 29.4  
353  100  
449 266  62.8 37.2  
408 80 75  72.5 14.2 13.3  
146 91  61.6 38.4  


civil engineering, Duarte is the first Hesburgh remarked, "He was rec· Jose Napoleon Duarte the address. see DUARTE, page 4 
--~r----~·-~~--~...,..---._,--­
--------------------~~---------------------­



In Brief 

National campus alcohol guidelines were 
adopted by the National Association of College and University Residence Halls Inc. at its January conference. NACURH, which represents students from 193 universities, i!' the first student group to endorse the guidelines proposed by BACCHUS. a national col­legiate alcohol awareness group. -Tbe Observer 
Sorry, Saint Mary's, no snowday. wNDu­lV reported last night that Saint Mary's College had cancelled class, but the announcement turned out to be false, and WNDU-lV retracted the report. The last time classes were cancelled at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame was during the winter of 1978. -Tbe Observer 
Of Interest 

The NBC television network win carry the 
Palm Sunday liturgy live from Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Church on March 31. The hour-long program, presented in association with the 
U.S. Catholic Conference, will begin at 11 a.m. Father Theodore Hes­burgh, president of Notre Dame, will be the celebrant of the Mass, the first ever to be telecast nationally from Sacred Heart. Father DanieiJenky, rector ofSacred Heart Church, said it will be necessary to have reserved seating In the congregation for students and other members of the Notre Dame community. Locally, Channel 16 WNDU-lV will carry the program live. -Tbe Observer 
A benefit lunch at the Center for Social Concerns will be hosted tomorrow from 11 :30 until 1 :30. The menu will include Brazllean soup, salad, hot bread, coffee and desert. All proceeds will benefit the work ofa South Bend native working in a school for the poor in Uma, Peru. -Tbe Observer 
The fast Starts today. Students who pledged to take part in the Wednesday lunch fast are reminded the fast begins today and continues throughout the semester. Also during this time, from 
12:15 until I every Wednesday, a prayer/reflection group will meet in the Center for Social Concerns, sponsored by the World Hunger Coalition. -Tbe Observer 
Father Robert Taft, professor of liturgy at the Orien­tal Institute in Rome and consultant to the Vatican's Congregation for Oriental Churches, will give a lecture entitled "The Divine Of­fice: Reflections on the Recent Reform of the Roman Breviary" tonight at 8 Notre Dame's Memorial Library auditorium. The lecture is sponsored by the University's Department of Theology. -Tbe Observer 
A senior ski trip meeting will be tonight from 6 until 7 in the library auditorium. Room assignments "'ill be selected and the remainder ofthe balance is due. Spots are still open, call Gal") at 283-1 70I. -Tbe Obsen1er 

Weather 

A 40 percent chance of more 
funny white stuff today with variable cloudi­ness. It will be breezy with a high in the middle to upper 20s. Tonight, there is a 40 percent oflight snow developing toward mor­ning and a low of 10 to 1 5. For tomorrow, there is a 60 percent chance of light snow with a high in the middle 20s. -AP 



Student Senate's elimination would be a service to ND 
Congratulations to Chris Tayback, chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council, as well as toJunior Class Presi­dent Rick Ruehlmann. 
Both of these have at this writing resigned from the Student Senate; it is to be hoped that more will follow. These two became aware that the Student Senate is a pretentious farce; a farce which should be eliminated now, while its true character has been freshly revealed to the student body. 
The fiascos of the past few days have not cost Notre Dame student government any credibility. It had none before they happened; at most, the latest "scandals," if they deserve such a word, only proved to the remaining doubters that student government is, as it currently exists, a farce. 
Some good may yet come of this, however. Perhaps the inane events of the last few days will provide the spark needed to begin a long overdue restructuring of student government. 
Tom Mowle 
Assistant News Editor 


tration wishes them to. 

Since there is another campus-wide elected body in existence, there is no point to having the Student Sen­ate. The Hall Presidents' Council could do the same job, and do it better. 
Hall presidents usually provide an appropriate repre­sentation of a dorm because most residents know the candidates and vote, not on popularity, hut on how good a job they think he or she will do. A group of hall presidents is representative ofthe student body. 
A district senator, on the 
One ofthe main problems other hand, is not very rep­with student government Is resentative of a district. that it is too balkanized to be Dorm unity will pull for the effective. There are five or­candidate from a given ganizations which profess to dorm; the vivacity of the represent students: the Stu­candidates nearly always dent Senate, Half Presidents' wins in the neutral dorms. Council, Campus llie Coun­Rarely can ability be taken cil, Student Union Activities into account in the cam­Board, and class officers. paigning period. 
Ofthese, only the CLC can pretend to have any power, The chairman of the HPC since members of the ad­is the best representative for ministration are counted in the students of Notre Dame. its number. The HPC coordi­If a figurehead student body nates hall activities; the president is wanted as a co­SUAB, campus-wide events; ordinator between the and elected class officers, ac­remaining levels, he or she tivities for each graduating could still be ofsome minor 
class. 

The Student Senate over­laps these functions; it serves no useful purpose. It should be abolished. 
Sure, the senate sets budgets for the Student Union, the Judicial Council, Ombudsman, and other organiza­tions. Another body could do this just as well, or the administration could set the budgets. After all, no budget of which the administration disapproves will ever be allowed to pass that barr.ier. 
The senators also sometimes plan morale-raising functions, such as picnics, in their districts. Additional student union commissioners responsible for each quad would carry out this function quite capably. 
The only other purpose for the Student Senate is to perpetuate the myth that students have a voice in Uni­versity policy. It looks good for the University to have student government; to be cynical about the whole thing, it allows them to dupe the students for a few years, until the students realize that the senate is per­mitted to have effect only when and how the adminis­

use. Perhaps he or she could 
serve to communicate be­tween student government and the administration. In any case, the elimination of the Student Senate would be a great service to the students ofNotre Dame. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form ofan unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on theViewpointpage. These colwnns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other colwnns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board orThe Observer staff. 


8:00pm
HELP 

O'Laughlin Aud. 
SAVE 

Saint Mary's
BABIES 

Ticket Office: 
284-4626 
THE ANSWER IS 


Chicago 
f 


City
vn11 

Ballet
YOU 

Friday. Feb. 15 
From Ashes To Easter 
You are invited to participate in "From Ashes To Easter", a four week program of prayer and reflection on the Sun­day readings of Lent. Small groups will be sponsored in different halls, facilitated by head staff members. This is the first year of the program at Notre Dame. The program will start on February 24th. If you have any questions, please call Sr. MJ Griffin at 239-5242 (Badin-University Ministry Office) or 239-7072 (107 Farley Hall). Registration 
~deadline is February 15th. ..J 
The Observer 

Design Editor................................ Andy Saal 
Design Assistant ..........•.......... Alex Pc:ltzer The Observer (USPS ~99 2·4000) is Layout Staff............................ Elyn Mastako published Monday through Friday and Typesetters...........•.•.•...•.........••.. Vic and Ted on home football Saturdays, except News Editor............................ Tess Guarino during exam and vacation periods. The Copy Editor.........•.................... )ane Kravcik Oboerver is published by the students of Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Scheuermann the University of Notre Dame and Saint Viewpoint Copy Editor............ Mary Ellen Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Viewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown purchased for 130 per year ( 120 per se· Features Copy Editor......•............ Ed Nolan mest.,r) by writing lbe Oboerver, P.O. Features Layout ................... Andi Schnuck Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 465~6. NDDayEdftor.....................•.•..... Earl Baker 
The Observer is a member of The SMC Day Editor.........•.. Maggie O'Connell Auoclatcd Preas. All reproduction Ad Design ............•..•.•.. Fred and Catherine rights are reserved. Photographer.....•..•.......•.....•...... Mary Flynn 
The Observer  Wednesday, February 13, 1985-page 2  

The Observer Wednesday, February 13, 1985-page 3 


Council votes to keep senate seats, pushes for reconstruction instead 
By DAN McCULLOUGH reinstate the student body presiden­Howard said, "If (the student sen­
News Editor: tial ticket of Pat Browne and Cahill, ate) voted the way they did because "irresponsible and unrepresentative of alliances that's not a student rep­of student sentiment." It continued resentative, that's a personal repre­
The three represenatatives to the that the HPC's representatives in the sentative. We ace a much more Student Senate from the Hall Presi­senate "legitimizes that body as rep­representative body than the sen­dents' Council ace staying. resentative." ate." 
HPC Chairman Chris Tayback's The proposal said, "The recent ac­Dillon Hall President Bernie Pel­proposal to remove the HPC's repre­tions ofthe senate have shown to us, legrino said a tension has developed sentatives and to "take steps to en­beyond doubt, that this senate is not between the senate and HPC, and courage (the senate's) immediate an effective student voice, and lead passing such a proposal would hurt disbandment and reorganization," us to question whether a senate so relations. was rejected by the council by a 6 to _ comprised can ever be effective or 
Lori Kluczyk, Badin Hall presi­
IS vote, with one abstention and representative." 
dent, saw deeper problems with thethree absences. 
In the discussion preceeding the senate. "The appeal showed that the
The proposal would have 
vote, Tayback said, "In interhall gov­structure worked, but I think it was
removed the three remaining HPC 
ernment we do a lot, we have a lot to inherently flawed. We could pro­
representatives Kevin Howard 
say, andwe have a lot ofclout. I think pose our own structuring. I do think
(Keenan), Duane Lawrence (St. Ed­
we ought to take a standon this right we have something to say in opposi­
ward's), and Joanie Cahill (Lyons) 
now." tion to the student senate."
from the senate at least until the sen­
ate can be restructured. But Scott Hacdek, Planner Hall Pelligrino, also the executive co­Tayback resigned his position president, disagreed. "I didn't ordinator of the HPC, agreed to take from the senate Monday. become a hall president to get in­Tayback's place on the senate, 
The HPC decided instead to ask volved with campus politics altoget­which meets next Monday. the senate for an explanation of its her. It's a real lack of faith in Rob "I don't agree with what the sen­He also added his seat as Hall actions, and to attempt to work with (Bertino, student body president) ate did this weekend," Pellegrino 
Presidents' Council Chairman will the senate in reorganizing the sen­and Cathy (David, student body vice said. "But the HPC has voting inter­be filled by Dillon Hall President ate's structure. president), who have done a pretty ests. I've been to senate meetings

Healy 
continuedfrom page 1 
Bernie Pellegrino. Tayback resigned Tayback's proposal called the Stu­good job. I don't think it's our ?lace and I don't think I'll have a problem dent Senate's weekend decision to to decide the structure." with it."
ate" because "the way (the Student from his position on Monday. Senate) is set up, it doesn't represent Concerning OBUD, Healy said "as the students themselves as much as we made very clear in our platform, it does organizations such as the Stu­we plan to work very closely with 

Hesburgh helps with ND response
dent Activities Board." OBUD" to ensure their continual Healy said they will study Chris success as an organization. To avoid By MARK WORSCIIEH of an effort to develop an "official Hesburgh will discuss the motives 
Tayback's plan to restructure the the problems which the Student Managing Editor Notre Dame response" to the letter's behind the bishops' statements, and Student Senate. "The restructuring Senate and OBUD encountered in first draft, said Mary Beth Wack­Father Oliver Williams, associate committee will be extremely impor­this year's election, Healy said, "it University President Father owski, president of Omicron Delta professor of management, will ad­tant," Lawrence said. will be necessary to start from Theodore Hesburgh will join several Epsilon. The economics honor soci­dress the theological aspects of the 
Tayback said, "We think we'd scratch in establishing election noted professors from the Univer­ety is sponsoring the event. draft. Charles Craypo, chairman of make our point better if we rules." sity for a discussion of the bishops the economics department, will dis­restructure from the inside rather Studer.t Body Vice President and letter "Catholic Social Teaching and "Bishop McManus told us he cuss the problems of unemploy­than the outside. The recent elec­Co-Chairman of the Ad Hoc Com­the U.S. Economy" tonight at 7:30 in values Notre Dame's opinion be­ment, and Professors James tions incident is the prod which will mittee Cathy David said the elec­the auditorium of the Center for cause of its academic setting and its Rakowski and Ed Tcubac also will bring about this much-needed tions ran smoothly despite OBUD's Continuing Education. broad experience in each of the participate. Management Professor restructuring ofthe Student Senate." refusal to run the elections. Tonight's discussion will be pact areas ofthe letter," said Wackowski. John Houck will moderate. 






STUDY 
WHERE: FACULTY DINING ROOM IN THE SOUTH DIN!NG HALL 
WHEN: SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY 11 pm-3am 
...For a quiet, beautiful place to study late at night, try Late Night, courtesy ofBill Hickey, Food Services Director 
and the Notre Dame Student Government. 

Snow emergency declared 
Special to The Observer The security department per­
sonnel will attempt to contact 
Director ofNotre Dame Secur­registered student owners be­ity Glenn Terry yesterday an­tween the hours of II p.m. and nounced a snow removal midnight to avoid towing. emergency. Parking lots for Faculty /Staff 
must be cleared so the workers 
Parking of registered student can begin plowing. vehicles in Faculty /Staff lots shall Students may pack in the lot be restricted during the emer­south of the stadium to allow the gency. Student vehicles packed plows more access to the other between II p.m. and 8 a.m. will student lots. The emergency will be towed away at the owner's ex­be in effect until the lots ace pense. returned to their normal access. 
Cultural. visits to Japan's historical shrines and sites. Factory tours and industrial seminars-for you to combine businesswith pleasure! 
14 days-JAPA N-8 EIJI NG TOUR only $2.192* 

Your chance to see the newly opened China' 14 days-JAPAN-HONG KONG TOUR only $2.076* 
Have the shopping spree of your life in fabulous Hong Kong' 

For Oui.Far Easl Tour Bargains 
*From Chicago or New York. All prices

call the ORIENT SPECIALIST 
include round trip air fare on Japan Air Lines and first class hotel accomodations (based
1·80D-221·1 081 
on double occupancy). 

/Ill 
PACIFICO CREATIVE SERVICE, INC. (i\ 
225 North Michigan Ave., Suite 1208. Chicago,IL 60601 
W 

The Observer Wednesday, February 13, 1985-page 4 

Duarte 
continuedfrom page I 
commission which observed 
the elections. 

"We walked into the boardroom," 
Hesburgh said."Duarte (turned to 
some associates) and said, 'There's 
the fellow who is responsible for all 
the trouble I'm in. He taught me 
about social justice and I took him 
seriously'." 

Hesburgh recalls a time, in 1972, 
when Duarte's life was jeopardized 
by his political activities. Duarte was 
running for the presidency of EI Sal­
vador on a coalition ticket. The in­
cumbent opponent was Colonel 
Arturo Armando Molina. When early 
election returns showed a Duarte 
lead, the military government 
imposed a news blackout. After the 
blackout was lifted, Molina was 
declared the winner of the election. 
A few weeks later, some of 
Duarte's military supporters tried 
unsuccessfully to overthrow the 
Molina government. Duarte was ar­
rested, thrown in jail, and, according 
to Hesburgh, "was promised a fair 
trial and to be shot in the morning." 
At that point, Rolando Duarte 
telephoned Hesburgh with news of 
his brother's plight. "I pulled out all 
the stops," Hesburgh said, "Church, 
state, everything." 

The intercession of international 
officials and the government of 
Venezuela saved Duarte's life. Even 
though he was tortured before being 
delivered over the Venezuelan bor­
der into exile. 

"Look at his face," Hesburgh said. "You'll see where he was pistol whipped." 
"He's a gutsy guy," Hesburgh remarked. "He went to talk to the guerrillas with no bodyguards. There were only girl scouts and boy scouts on the streets. It was a long way from the capital." 
Hesburgh is confident about the selection for the 1985 commence· ment speaker. · "He's an ND guy who made good and is doing a good job." 
Corrections 

Because of a reporting error in yesterday's paper, The Observer incorrectly reported a statement by Anne Marie Kollman, student body presidential candidate at Saint Mary's. Kollman said, "There is not a lack of minorities. There is a lack of minority appli· cants." 
Also in yesterday's paper, be­cause of an editing error, The Observer incorrectly reported the vice presidential positions at Saint Mary's. Julie Harmon is run­ning for vice president of aca­demic affairs and Jeanne Heller is running for vice president ofstu· dent affairs. 
Also, Dorothy Murray is the 
student government judicial 
commissioner. 


_ 
The: Observc:r /Mary Flynn

Parlez vous francais? 
Senior Pat Sullivan seems intent during his stint in O'Shaughnessy Hall's language lab yesterday. Since the weather makes any outdooractivity impractical, many students are hitting the books as an alternative this week. 
Chernenko illness real, Soviet officials admit 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW · Soviet officials con­firmed yesterday that President Konstantin Chernenko is ill and said 
he canceled  a  scheduled  meeting  
with  Greek  Premier  Andreas  
Papandreou,  a  Greek government  

spokesman said. Chernenko has not made a. public appearance in nearly seven weeks. 
A Soviet Foreign Ministry official said Chernenko, who came to power a year ago today after the death of Yuri Andropov, was out oftown "on vacation" and that there would be no meeting. 
Greek government spokesman Dimitrios Maroudas later told a news conference that a planned meeting yesterday between Papandreou and the 73-year-old So­viet leader had been canceled by So­viet officials who said Chernenko was sick. 
"The planned meeting of the premier of Greece with the general secretary of the Soviet Communist Party could not take place due to the illness ofMr. Chernenko," Maroudas said. 
He declined to say how much ad· vance notice was given. Asked if the delegation was given any details about Chernenko, 
Maroudas said: "we have no such curiosity." 
Earlier, the Foreign Ministry offi­cial told The Associated Press: "Mr. Chernenko is not in Moscow. He is in the country. He is on vacation." 
Maroudas said, "These two things do not necessarily contradict each other. He could be ill and out of town at the same time." 
Chernenko's health has been the subject of persistent speculation since he took office on Feb. 13, 1984, including reports that he has emphysema. He has displayed ob­vious breathing difficulties when speaking in public. 
The official Soviet news media were silent yesterday about Chernenko's condition. 
The lead item on the nationai eve­ning news program "Vremya" (Time) was an announcement that a new book by Chernenko has been published in the Soviet Union. 
The book "On the Way to Com­pleting Developed Socialism," is a compilation of speeches and writings by the Soviet leader in 1984. A still picture of Chernenko sitting behind a desk was shown during the announcement. 
Chernenko kept a busy public schedule until his last appearance during a televised awards ceremony Dec. 27. 
The Observer 

1985-86 Managing Editor and Business Manager 
Resumes and personal statements must be submitted to Sarah Hamilton by 5 p.m. Feb. 15, 1985 TheObserver 
3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
GIVE US 




nMETOREPAY 

YOUR LOAN. 
If you've gone to college on a National Direct Student Loan, a Guaranteed Student Loan or a Federally Insured Student Loan made after October 1, 1975, and your loan is not in default, here's a way to get your loan repaid. 
Use the Army's Loan Repayment program. Each year you serve on active duty reduces your indebtedness by one-third or $1500, whichever amount is greater. In a three-year enlistment, you eliminate your debt. 
Additionally, you could learn a valuable skill and take advantage of many other Army opportunities. If you have the time, we have the money. 
Check it out with your Army Recruiter. 
SGT BRENNAN 234-4187 
ARMY. BEALLYOU CAN BE. 
c ORB y , s 
Every Tuesday: O.J. the D.J. 
Every Wednesday: $5 night-­all you can drink for $5 beginning at 10:00pm, 
and ending at 12:00am *draft beer *liquor *shots 
Every Friday: Happy Hour 2 for 1 drinks 5pm-7pm 

:*** * * *'* * * * * * * * * ****!
i~ DISTINGUISHED STUDENT $* : AWARD : 
~ * 
~ * 
: The Notre Dame Alumni Association will be accepting nominations : ~ from February 1 to February 22 for the 4th annual Distinguished Student * : Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor an out-: ~ standing senior student at the University based on the following criteria: * 
~ : 
~ 
. 

~ ~ ~ 1) Service to Notre Dame, * ~ 2) Service to the Community, and, *
i~ a* 
3) Good Academic Standing. 
•  Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on 1  :  
t  the second floor of the Administration Building, the Center for Social  ~  
• ~ ~t  Concerns, and at Campus ministry office in the Memorial Library. Nominations must be submitted to the Association by Feb. 22, 1985.  ~ *. :  

***********'11(****************************************** 




Accent 

Wednesday, February 13,1985-page 5 
~~mr MS update 
L f-
l.g ~ MS
"'-CJ 
z './j 

campaign off to a rousing start 
', • SCLE ROSI~~!/ 

Karen McCloskey 
features staff writer 
A 
fter a successful kick-off day that grossed $4800.00, the N.D. Millions Against MS Campaign is off tu an enthusiastic start. 
Campaign Chairperson Aline Gioffre said ofSaturday's afternoon free-throw contest and evening MTV Video Party, "I would per­sonally like to thank everyone who attended the dance. It was the best campus turnout in years. About 
1600 people attended. Everyone 
had fun. We had a great prize (an 
SAB spring break trip for two to 
Florida) and I'm sure the guy who 
won it was thrilled." 
Several events are planned on 

both the Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's campuses this week in prep­
aration for a very full fund-raising 
schedule next week. 
ND MILLIONS AGAINST MS 

•Valentine 
Cookie Sale-Dorm delivery ofthe Valentine cookies sold last week in the dining halls will take place on Valentine's Day. 

•Popcorn 
Sale-Popcorn will be sold in the Dining Halls during Saturday and Sunday brunches beginning this weekend. The price ofa bag of popcorn will be $.25. MTV "Help Strike Out MS"buttons will also be a vail able (price $.2 5 ) to stamp out the weekend brunch blahs. 


SABACTMTIES 

•Movies-Proceeds from Tuesday night's SAB sponsored movie, "On Golden Pond", will be donated to the MS Drive. SAB will donate the receipts from the movies it will show on each Tuesday in February. 
GROUPACTMTIES 
•Singing-Gram-The Glee Club 

is sponsoring a singing-gram service for Valentine's Day. For $1.50, you can send your sweetheart a rose and a serenade by the world­renowned Notre Dame Glee Club. Check posters and table-tents for more details. A portion of the prof­its will be donated to ND Millions Against MS. 
DORMACTMTES 

•Carnation 
Sale-Breen-Phillips Hall is currently sponsoring a carna­tion sale in the Dining Halls. The price of the carnations is n.50. Half of the proceeds from this sale will be donated to the MS Drive. 

•Laundry 
Service-Fisher Hall is running a laundry service and donating its proceeds to the MS Drive. 

•Dinner 
Raftle-Pasquerilla East is sponsoring an in-hall raffle for a Vale!ltine's Day dinner. Profits will be donated to ND Millions Against MS. 


SAINT MARY'S 

•Dinner Raftle-Celeste Alleva, Chairperson ofthe Saint Mary's branch ofND Millions Against MS campaign, has organized a raffle with dinner prizes at ten area res­taurants including Tippecanoe Place, Ice House Restaurant, Hacienda, The Rathskellar, and Bill Knapp's. Tickets for the raffle are 
$1.00 and will be sold door-to-door on both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses. 
To purchase additional raffle tickets or to help out with the sale of tickets, call Celeste Alleva at 284-5166. 
DONATIONS 
•Saint Mary's Student Govern-


Eric Bergamo 
Television review 

I 
lis a little after ten o'clockoil a Thursday evening as you put away your studies and head down to the TV lounge for a little televi­sion watching. You turn on the TV and Hugh Downs welcomes you to "20/20". Changing the channel to CBS, you see the panoramic landscape of"Knot's Landing". Once more you turn the knob to NBC. A garage door raises up. A siren wails as police cars emerge and accelerate quickly away. A familiar arrangement ofnotes are played in the background on a piano as the words "Hill Street Blues" flash on the screen. You sit down and watch, knowing that this was what you were looking for in the first place. 
"Hill Street Blues" is a television show that comes along once in a long while. A show that changes the philosophy of network program­ming and earns for itself a position in video history. In the 1970's, the show that best filled these qualifica­tions was "M.A.S.H". "Hill Street Blues" is the show ofthe 1980's. 
Set in the inner-city desolation of an unnamed American metropolis, "Hill Street Blues" deals with the police officers who have to contend with the crime and decay of the ghetto. They do their job as best they can, only to make all too human mistakes and have those who they have apprehended slip through their fingers because ofa legal loophole. It is chaos in this corner of the world known as the Hill Street precinct. A realistic chaos that television has never seen before. 
Steven Bochco, the executive producer of the NBC hit, has a talent for utilizing what he has on hand to develop the best show he can -every show. He asks for the best from his actors and writers and gets it from them. Bochco concocts a delicate blend ofserious drama and light humor from the scripts, not trying to place the show into a heavy handed position where only the drama controls the tempo ofthe show. Bochco has the unique per­ception ofknowing where to put the humor, while not disrupting disrupt the show's flow. 
What sets "Hill Street Blues" apart from other shows of the police drama genre is that it breaks away from the "perfect cop" syndrome that afflicted police shows of the seventies. It isn't afraid to show that officers at the Hill Street precinct are human, making errors that "perfect screen cops" of the seventies never made. Ifsome­one would forget to read the Miranda Code to a suspect or use unnecessary force in apprehending a criminal, the "Hill Street" cops pays for their mistakes when they watch the criminal walked free through the cracks in the judicial system. 
What should you know about MS? 
Special to The Observer 
M 
ultiple sclerosis is a neuro­logical disease the cause of which is as yet undetermined. It attacks the myelin sheath, the coating or insulation around the message-carrying nerve fibers in the brain and spinal cord. Where myelin has been destroyed, it is replaced by plaques ofhardened tissue (sclerosis); this occurs in multiple areas within the ner­vous system. At first, nerve im­pulses are transmitted with minor interruptions. Later, plaques may completely obstruct impulses along certain nerves. 
MS varies tremendously from patient to patient in its symptoms, severity, and course. For many, it involves a series of attacks, or exacerbations, and panial or complete recoveries, or remissions. 
Symptoms vary according to the area ofthe nervous system affected. Different people suffer different symptoms, which may iifclude one or more ofthe fol­lowing: weakness, tingling, numbness, impaired sensation, lack ofcoordination, distur­bances in equilibrium, double vision, involuntary and rapid movement ofthe eyes (nystagmus), slurred speech, tremor, stiffness or spasticity, weakness oflimbs, and in more severe cases paralysis of the extremities or impaired bladder 
and bowel function. Often these symptoms are accompanied or preceded by fatigue, which is frequently mistaken for laziness. 
Approximately two-thirds of those who have MS experience their first symptoms between the ages of 20 and 40. Sometimes, however, the diag­nosis is not made until a person is in his 40s or even 50s; fre­quently in these cases a detailed medical history reveals that symptoms did appear previously but that they were not long­lasting or bothersome enough to warrant medical attention and hence a diagnosis at the time. 
MS is not a fatal disease. A 1971 study carried out by Dr. Alan K. Percy in Rochester, Minn., followed a group of MS patients for 25 years after diag­nosis. At the end of this period, 7 4 percent of the group were 

still living, compared with an 
expected survival rate of Rh 
percent for the general popula­
tion. The study demonstrated 
that life expectancy is reduced 
by no more than 1 5 percent. 
No one can catch MS. Neither is it a hereditary disease. There are two groups offactors which influence whether or not a per­son develops it: environmental factors (such as a virus) and internal, or predisposing factors. 
Unfonunately, medical sci­ence has not yet discovered how to alter the course of MS. But there are several methods of mitigating its effects. Patients are urged to maintain the best possi­ble state ofhealth and avoid infections. Occasionally medica­tion is useful in easing some of the symptoms or curtailing a flare-up. Physical therapy is used to improve circulation or, after an acute episode, to help a pa­tient overcome residual motor disability. 
ment has donated $150.00 to ND Millions Against MS. Saint Mary's Campus Ministry has also donated 
SI50.00 to the fund-raiser. 
•Senior Bar and Alumni Club is sponsoring special nights in the next few weeks during which proceeds will be donated to the MS drive. Saturday's quaner beer night following the video pany was sue-
Ideas for activities and fund­raisers are also welcomed by Gioffre. She said, "It's great to make that much money for research, but ifour final goal is for the concert, we have alot more to do. We, the committee, Student Activities, Student Government, are really happy with the first week (offund­raising)." 


'Hill Street Blues' -The show of the '80s 

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
, 1
it. Then came the time for the 
1
Emmy awards and the moment of NBC's vindication as "Hill Street 
1,
Blues" walked away with eight of the coveted awards, including best drama and best actor in a drama series to Daniel}. Travanti. 
The next season NBC moved "Hill Street Blues" to Thursdays at ten. The rest, is television history. NBC is not afraid to produce excel­lent drama that strikes our nerves and our hearts. ABC and CBS can only stick to formulas tried and true while NBC takes the chances. "Hill Street Blues" is a chance that suceeded. 
"Hill Street Blues" is what televi­sion programming was meant to be and should be. Not dealing with things, such as money on shows like "Dynasty" or "Dallas", but with people and how they react to the situations around them. Ashow where all involved work to produce the best that can be made. A show that makes us laugh, cry, and feel with the characters on the screen. An event ofwhich we never tire. 
Daniel J. Travanti 
Their faults carry over into their personal lives, showing that they are not pillars ofperfection on or offthe job. The Hill Street Blues" actors help to reinforce the image offaulted enforcers ofthe law. 
There are sixteen principle char­acters on every episode of"Hill Street Blues". Each actor is talented and skilled at his craft, and handles his character in such a way that the audience cares what happens to him week in and week out. Each character's feelings, fears and hopes can be traced and plotted by the audience. The viewer shares in the precinct comaraderie and tragedy. 
In very simple words, "Hill Street Blues" is a drama about people, not about police work. It is about people like'you and me and what happens to them on and off the job. 
Ofall the actors, Daniel J. Travanti shines in his role as Cap­tain Frank Furillo. An unknown before "Hill Street Blues", he has now become a household name because ofthe ~eries. Travanti portrays Furillu as he should, a calm cessful. 
•Direct donations are always welcomed. To make a direct contri­bution, call Aline Gioffre at :l83­21 79 or mail checks made payable to "ND Millions Against MS" to: Student Activities Office attn. ND Millions Against MS LaFortune Student Center, 1st Floor Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

man who is able to rise to the rigors ofhis position ifthe need be. Ifthe rest ofthe station house is plunging into anarchy, Travanti's Furillo is the only sane voice in the din. His quiet strength commands the screen whenever he is on. 
The rest ofthe supponing cast does its job well, using their craft to portray their characters to the fullest. Hats off to Bruce Weitz, Michael Warren, Robert Prosky, Charles Haid, Betty Thomas, Taurean Blaque, Kiel Martin~ Veronica Hamel, Ken Olin, James B. Sikking, Joe Spano, Barbara Bosson, Ed Marinaro, Robert Hirschfield, and Mimi Kuzyk. The ensemble cast of"Hill Street Blues" is the best on television today. 
NBC has to be congratulated for standing by "Hill Street Blues" during the show's first season when the ratings were less than encourag­ing. The show was a critical success, but up against ABC's escapist fare of "The Love Boat" it was a ratings failure. Still, NBC knew that it had a winner on its hands and stayed with 


View~_o_i_n_t________
'Consenting Adult' deals with a reality 
One can usually count on the first month of a semester to be relatively laid back. Lengthy papers haven't been started yet and most stu­dents haven't had to face a major exam. This leaves time for such frivolity as watching tele­vision. The following is a hypothetical con­verstion between two roommates with nothing better to do on the first Monday eve­ning of February except watch the tube: 
Domer I: What do you want to watch? Domer 2: Don't know. Turn it on, buddy. It's about 9 p.m. and on the screen appears the following warning: 
The following program deals with mature subject matter. It is the story ofa young man who informs his famt/y that be is homosexual, and detat/s his famt/y's reac­tions. Parental discretion is advised. Domer2: Want to watch it? (Pause) Might be goodfor a laugh or two. Domer I: Nab. There's bound to besomething better on. I get tired ofbearing about these gays. Nobody I know ts gay anyhow. 
The Gay Society of Notre Dame & Saint Mary's 
guest column 
It would be interesting to know how many viewers at Notre Dame and across the United States were participants in a similar conversa­tion when ABC aired "Consenting Adult" on Monday, Feb. 4. Those who switched chan­nels missed an eloquent, sensitive, moving, and masterfully acted progrm; but worse, they missed an extraordinary educational opportu­nity. 
Not that the film dealt with the causality of homosexuality, which remains largely un­known. The film neatly skirted both the etiol­ogy of homosexuality and the issue of its morality. 
Instead, the film dealt with how Jeff Lynn, the epitome of an all-American college male (a pre-med major, swimming star; he could easily have been a Domer!), comes to grips with being gay and how his parents, family, and college roommate handle this revelation. The film treated what is for many Americans, a threatening and disturbing topic with candor and perceptivity without resorting to stereotypes and sensationalism. This, in itself,
r made for worthwhile viewing.
r 
For students who didn't switch to another 
r 
channel, the film could have been a healthy
r 
experience as it brought to the surface a sub-
r 
r 

ject which is on the minds of many, but which 
remains buried under layers of fear and anx­
iety. This fear, almost tangible at times, seems 
especially evident at Notre Dame with its 
strong residential character. It is a fear which 
usually only gains release in crude jokes and 
put-downs or in one's dreams. It is a fear of 
being suspected to be gay and, for some, it is a 
fear ofactually being gay. 

Jeff Lynn realized that he had always been 
gay. It wasn't just a phase he was passing 
through or some "disease" he caught at col­
lege that could be cured. 

He remained the same person that his par­
ents had always loved -honest, bright, 
compassionate, moral -and the revelation of 
his gayness didn't change who he was. Yet his 
parents, and especially his father, were so bur­
dened with the stereotypes and prejudices 
common about gays that they initially shutout 
their only son. Faced with a real, live 
homosexual and not a mere objectification, 
but the reality of having a gay son, his parents 
painfully disengaged themselves of their dis­
gust and moral condemnations, realizing that 
their son merited none of these. 

Jeffs roommate and parents were entirely 
unprepared to deal with his homosexuality in 
any manner other than one fed by ignorance 
and fear. And this is where the educational 
value of the film lies: it vividly portrays the 
agony that results from ignorance and we can 
all learn from this. 

It may come as a surprise to some, but even 
good Catholic families sometimes wind up 
with gay children. Many graduates of Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's will themselves have 
sons and daughters who, through no one's 
fault, will turn out to be gay. 

It might be a good idea once in a while to imagine what you would do ifyou discovered your own child to be gay. Would you act out of ignorance and help your child to hate him­self/herself? Or would you help your child to accept himself/herself as a graced individual and to realize his/her human potential to the fullest? If you answered the first question af­firmatively, perhaps you ought to consider celibacy. If you answered yes to the second question, you are not far from the Kingdom. 
The Gay Society ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's encourages members of the Notre Dame community to learn more about sexuality. Those interested may call Coun­seline Monday through Friday between 4 
p.m. and midnight and ask for tapes 20 and 
21. The Counseline number is 239-7793-In­formation about the Society can be obtained by writing: GSND-SMC, P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
f 
The Observer~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either mstitution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views ot their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opmions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 


The history of the Palestinian problem 
Despite the fact that many books, thick and thin, have been written and published on the title subject during the last 60 years or so and that many divergent views have been pre­sented, I shall try hereby to limit, within my modest abilities, my treatise to the very essen­tials as I see and understand them. My parents are both from Nazareth, which is situated to the north of Palestine, and I was born in Beth­lehem, which is a little south ofJerusalem. I lived for nineteen years in Jerusalem before coming to the United States two and a half years ago. 
MansourEid 
guest column 

An impartial study of books written about the Palestine problem by both Arabs and Zionists will necessarily yield one common fact which is indisputable, namely that the Zionist enterprise was undertaken with the view of establishing in Palestine a new na­tional entity which, because ofits very charac­ter, necessarily had to replace the then native Palestinian society comprising a Moslem majority and the rather small minorities of Christians, Druse and non-ZionistJews. 
After 1948-49, the seriously weakened Palestinians lost those parts of the country which formed its economic backbone. The remaining areas were flooded with some half a million refugees. To boot, both the Jordanian and the Egyptian authorities suing in what remained of Palestine suppressed both local leadership and any attempts at establishing new industries. These steps turned the Pales­tinians into depression and drove the better elements ofits population out ofthe country. 
As a result of the 1967 inva­sion/occupation, whatever remained of Palestine fell to the strengthened and developed Zionist entity -The State of Israel. This entity aimed at reducing the lower classes of Palestine -those living in the pre­1967 Israel and in the newly occupied ter­ritories -to a dispossessed mass of unskilled laborers. 
At this moment Palestine is ruled by a Jewish majority forming the internationally recognized entity called the State of Israel, which has at its disposal a war machine which is absolutely sufficient for the task of rulin1o4 over those Palestinian inhabitants who, as a minority, still live within the country's bound-
Editorial Board 
EdJtor-Jn·Chlef Bob Vonderheide Manag1ng Edl/or Mark Worscheh News Edl/or . . Sarah Hamilton News Ed1tor . Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Ed1tor . . Anne Monastyrsk1 Sports Editor. Michael Sull1van Viewpoint Edllor . . Dave Grote Features Ed1tor Mary Healy Photo Ed1tor. Pete Laches 
aries. 
To further our understanding of the prob­lem, we have to define the Palestinians. They are the occupantsofthat land-they have been there since the rise of civilization . .They are often referred to by western media as "Palestinian terrorists," but a question arises in my mind here which is, "Do we believe everything we read in papers, or hear through radio or television?" The Palestinians have been uprooted from their homeland and scat­tered around the world, mostly in refugee camps in neighboring Arab countries, some under Israeli occupation and others in Europe and the United States. They are named after the land whereJesus preached brotherly love. The majority can be considered as exiles for they have spent the last four decades trying to come back to their beloved homeland, but in vain. 
Israelis believe that ifthe Palestinians are to 
come back, they (the Palestinians) will throw 
all the Jews in the sea. From an Israeli's point 
of view there is always the possibility of a re­
occurrence of the holocaust. So they have to 
fight all the possibilities of such a thing reoc­
curring. 
The Palestinians, on the other hand, are still struggling for their rights -for the right to their land as well as for their civil and human rights. They believe that injustice exists in this world because their rights are not given to them. They have been very tolerant and pa­tient. They have waited for a peaceful solution for a long time but, alas, none has shown up yet. As a result, the Palestinians have resorted to violence in some instances, in situations where any other nation would have done the same -even Americans, if put under similar circumstances, such as Soviet occupation. The Afghans did not take more than one hour to call for revolution against Soviet occupa­tion. 
Hatred is planted in the heart ofevery Pales­tinian and every Israeli. This hatred has become almost innate. Coupled with such beliefs and the mutual hatred existing, there is no possibility for ending this conflict. Neither side shows any si~n of hope that peace will grow over hatred. The end to this conflict is only a dream, as long as there is no Palestinian State and the existence ofan Israeli State. It is a beautiful dream, and if we can live it, then it becomes reality. In closing, I must ask, "How can we attain that dream?" 
Munsour Eid 1., from jerusalem, Israel and ts a junior in the College ofArtsandLettersat Notre Dame. 
Department Managers 
Busmess Manager. .. Dave T a1clet Controller. Dave Stephen itch Advert1smg Manager . Anne Culligan C1rculalion Manager . Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager. Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. Chris Bowler ProJeCt Manager . Amy Stephan 
Founded November 3, 1966 
ay_,_Fe_b_ru_~ I3_,_I_9s_s
"ielYP.~O_i_n~t~-------------------------------------w_e_d_n_e~__ ___ ___P_~_e__7 
Clergy have responsibility to speak on issues 
The question of the political role of the clergy is a prominent one, receiving much media coverage and attention in public debate. By way ofan open response to Bishop McManus' request for input on this question, I would like to add to the confusion my opinion that religious leaders not only have the option but the responsibility to speak out on certain 
Pete Manzo 
drivel 
issues. that some may consider beyond their religious authority. While this may seem a banal observation, I will try to make a case for it nevertheless. 
Although it may at first seem that religious leaders' primary responsibility should be only to the spiritual well-being of their followers, further consideration should show the impor­tance ofattention to the physical needs of the faithful as well. Material conditions will often have a great impact on people's spiritual lives. On the network news last week,·a missionary who had spent over twenty years working with the poor in Peru observed that he was so active in the mundane life of the community because it was hard for him to open a soul that had to carry an empty stomach. Clerics in Latin America, Africa, Asia, the Pope's homeland and the United States have recognized a similar necessity. 
Because clerics have chosen to lead others they must bear some responsibility for the ef­fects of their leadership. In this light, neglect­ing earthly concerns to preach only eternal salvation does not appear so admirable as it may in the biographies of the saints. Looking exclusively to the heavens has the real effect of a tacit endorsement of the status quo, regardless of whether this is intended or not. In many areas, the faithful lack the awareness to see that many material conditions are within the range of man's 'feeble power. Im­ploring these people to look beyond all else to their eternal reward inhibits the growth of this awareness, and can stunt spiritual growth as well. They are left to resign themselves to enduring their "God-given" fate. Certainly this type of "apolitical" worldview has politi­cal ramifications. 
Finally, there is the question ofwhether the religious and political realms can be, or ought to be, separated. The separation ofchurch and state in our system is mainly a nominal one, to allow for the presence of several different religions but not the preclusion of religiously motivated viewpoints. To some extent, practi­cally any action or viewpoint on earthly mat­ters will have some political aspects. The political or "public" sphere can be considered to encompass any actions or opinions put forth in public, and increasingly in private, and so also includes religiously based actions and opinions. Religiously motivated actions and opinions will either agree with or propose alternatives to other political interests and viewpoints. 

Problems arise in trying to delineate sepa­rate realms for religion and politics. For exam­ple, such unimpeachable guidelines for action as the corporal works of mercy can take on very political overtones. In many areas of the world, just to call for, let alone provide, food for the hungry and clothingfor the naked is an explosive and dangerous act, and one that cer­tain elements would.consider "subversive". In the United States, simply to recognize the presence of great numbers of homeless and hungry people in our cities and rural areas carries a high political charge. 
This difficulty in classifying issues raises serious questions. For instance, what are the politics involved in approving of clerical in­volvement in Polish problems, but not in Latin America? Why would some Catholics who would not hesitate to cite Church statements 
to back up their stand on abortion not only refuse to accept the American Bishops' pronouncements on nuclear arms and eco­nomics, but condemn them for overstepping their "bounds"? It would seem that in these cases people follow the Church's statements not because of its authority, but because of their agreement with such statements. They are using their own judgement concerning these positions which are not dogma. It is my contention that most people in this country and elsewhere make political choices regard­ing religious issues that have political implica­
tions. 

With the realization that they do make political choices concerning the suggestions of their religious leaders, people should not try to restrict these leaders from promulgat­ing the recommendations of their faith. For their part, the clergy must not hesitate to preach the dictates of their consciences, be­cause to refrain out ofpolitical considerations is also a political choice. In this way, religious leaders can try to tend to the causes of much suffering and injustice, instead oftreating only the symptoms. 
Pete Manzo is a senior government major at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


P.O.Box Q 
Some in government will still do their work 
DearEditor: 
In their zeal to 'do the right thing' several student government members have resigned in what they seem to think is some type of noble protest over the Brown/Cahill reinstatement. The people who remain in stu­dent government are those individuals who have the energy and backbone to put the issue into perspective and prevent the reoccur­rence ofsuch a confused, unfair, and unfortun­ate event. Those who resigned have let the issue control them. 
I am the student government Executive Co­ordinator in charge of special projects and a participant in Student Senate. With the help of my commissioners, I will continue to work on projects such as a proposal to build senior townhouses, Adopt-a-Transfer, Freshman and Transfer Orientation, the M.S. drive and most importantly, the committee to restructure student government. I feel that the projects I have participated in are too important to be side-tracked by a single issue. 
Alison Yurko Executive Coordinator Student Government 
Armed security are not needed at dinner 
DearEditor: 
I was greatly impressed by something that I 
saw in the dining hall Saturday night. Sta­
tioned at the entrance was an armed security 
guard. Abackup was poised near the dirty dish 
conveyor belt. The guard near the door had a 
revolver and ten extra rounds of ammunition 
strapped to a holster. I asked what the heavy 
security was for, and the guard said that things 
could get out of hand due to the basketball 
game that day. 
All I could think was "Dammit. it's about 
time." I am so sick and tired of people throw­
ing food, smashing glasses, and cutting in lim· 
at that dining hall! Maybe now there will be: 
some law and order. 
If someone throws food, the guards should give them a crack in the head with one of the long-handled flashlights they carry. ·When some obnoxious student/punk vandalizes Notre Dame property or tries to slither out with an extra peanut butter sandwich stuffed up his shirt, he should be shot right there on the spot! If the sheer number of rebels and pranksters should intimidate the guards. well that is where those extra bullets would come: in handy. 
Despicable behavior should be met with brute force in all aspects of campus life. People who elbow others out of the way on the way to class should be shot in the hack. 
Those who insist on clogging trafiiL by jog­ging on roads rather than the sidewalks pro­vided should be run over, if at all possible. A Bernard Goetz-style shooting on the shurtle would put an end once and for all to the rude freshmen and to those who smoke directly un­der the "No Smoking" signs. 
I hope that the security guards in the dining hall are a sign ofbetter things to come. 
Marc Deshaies Howard Hall 
Vote on Browne hurts instead of helps 
DearEditor: 
The action taken by our present student 
body representatives -voting to ostracize stu­
dent body presidential candidate Pat Browne 
from the SBP elections -hurts the students in­
stead of helping. The proud weeders of cor­
ruption allowed Browne to remain in the SBP 
campaign race however, they forced him to 
refrain from further campaigning. 
These people in our student government of 
which I speak, made a grave error when they 
voted to cease the further hanging of posters 
and campaigning for Browne. They in effect 
sent a message to the students by taking au­
tonomous action on an issue which will effect 
us in the near future. 
It is ofgrave importance that we be given a competitive election. If we want to make an attempt to practice politics in this small polity called Notre Dame, we must not penalize a candidate too seriously to effect the normal flow ofdemocratic ideals which the SBP elec­tions seek to obtain. 
The legality of Browne's action must not ef­fect the students' right to enjoy a hard fought campaign where the victor will have legitimately won on the political issues them­selves -that ofproviding Notre Dame a better place for students to co-exist. 
Tony Dawson StanfordHall 
Robert's ridicule of Ruppe was wrong 
DearEditor: 
I disagree with Theron Robert's description of Loret Ruppe as unsuitable and disappoint­ing. Loret Ruppe satisfied Father Hesburgh's criteria for selecting a commencement speaker. She was memorable and motivating. 
I find fault with Robert's criticism of Ruppe because of the controversy surrounding her selection. Controversy is not adversely related to personal greatness, I can easily re­member the controversy and student protest surrounding Ronald Reagan's selection in 1981. If Ronald Reagan can be controversial and a great speaker, than Loret Ruppe can be controversial and a great speaker also. 

Lort·t Ruppe has connections with Notre 
D~e. Her great grandfather, grandfather, fa­
ther and brother attended Notre Dame. 
(Loret's grandfather was Fred Miller, the all­
American and captain ofthe football team that 
won one for the Gipper.) 
Loret Ruppe's point of view interested the 
students. She talked about the many Notre 
Dame alumni who volunteered their services 
to other nations. She discussed the Peace 
Corps' work in the world today. Loret Ruppe 
challenged each member of the Class of 1984 
to work for world peace through their jobs, in 
their communities, in the United States and 
abroad. 
Loret Ruppe's name is not known in every 
household. The media rarely focuses atten­
tion on the director of the Peace Corps. Yet, 
Loret Ruppe will remain an exceptional per­
son. 
I would like to thank Father Hesburgh for 
selecting such a great person to speak at my 
undergraduate commencement. I hope he 
chooses someone as suitable as Loret Ruppe 
for the commencement of 1985. 
Maureen Cunningham NotreDame Law School 
The real message was 'go Notre Dame' 
DearEditor: 
Do you know what I hate? I hate it when 
people get mad at students for booing oppos­
ing teams. Just when you think you are hel­
ping your own team, someone has to go and 
tell you that you are "reprehensible." Boy, I 
hate it when that happens. 
Unlike Sister Maurita, who found the behav­.ior of the students nothing short of 
praiseworthy. I believe that the uproar which 
lasted from the pre-game warm-ups to the 
final buzzer not only helped to raise the level 
ofexcitement in the ACC, but also the level of 
play. 
In response to the charge that the students' 
behavior was reprehensible because we 
booed, I say, lighten up Sister. I am positive 
that none of the Notre Dame students had 
anything personal against any of the DePaul 
players. It simply comes down to the fact that 
the students, as fans, have a responsibility to 
do anything, within limits, that might cause an 
opposing player to be nervous, to miss a shot 
or to throw an errant pass. In short, to inform 
other teams that it will be no easy task to win a 
basketball game in the ACC. 
Once again, I think the student body should 
be congratulated for a job well done at the 
DePaul game. They were loud, they were 
rowdy and they stayed within the limits ofac­
ceptable fan behavior. Keep it up, everybody! 
And GO IRISH! 
john A. McConvtlle]r. CarrollHall 
People should give even without a return 
DearEditor: 

In "Letters to a Lonely God" (2/8/85 ), Fa­ther Griffin has missed one ofthe fundamental messages of Christianity. One is not to be tolerant, considerate, kind, and loving towards others only in return for tolerance, consideration, kindness, and love; rather, one must give ofoneselfregardless ofwhether one receives similar treatment in return. One does not even have to be a Christian to see the fun­damental right-headedness of Matt 5:46, "For ifyou love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same?", or Luke 6:35, "Do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return." 
Generously, Father Griffin has offered to · stop clouding the world with smoke and pitching his butts on the grass provided that we stop burning rubber and make an effort to flush after using public restrooms. Doing a good deed in return for a good deed is not what makes this world a better place in which to live. Certainly, our world needs tolerance and love, as Father Griffin suggests, but it should be an unconditional tolerance and love. 
I know that I will continue to try (and no doubt sometimes fail) to be kind, tolerant, and loving towards others and to flush public toilets, even ifhe and other smokers continue to cloud the air, make my clothes smell like an ashtray, and damage my lungs. 
Hank Kreuzman Notre Dame Graduate School 
Government appalling because of broken rules 
DearEditor: 

The events involving student government over the last few days have been appalling. What we have on our hands is a clear-cut case of blatant rule breaking by someone seeking the highest office representing the student body. Despite claims by Browne and Cahill, their unfortunate actions in question were not simply the result of a "moment's ignorance:" the facts are too obvious to avoid concluding otherwise. 
Without question, Browne and Cahill should have been thrown out of the race. To allow such a ticket, sunk as it is in cement of deceit and vice, to remain in the running for any office is to make a mockery ofour favorite democratic principles. Chris Tayback, Rick Ruehlmann and Ray Wise, congratulations on letting your conscience be your guide. Rob Bertino et. al., shame on you for legitimizing the debased conduct of the Browne-Cahill ticket. 
Michael]. Beaudine AlumniHall 

t 
~ 
t 
t 
' l ~ 
I t 
I 

Wednesday, February 13, 1985-page 8 
..-----------------­

Sports Briefs 
last night'S Wrestling match between Notre A racquetball tournament is being held by NVA Dame and Indiana University was cancelled due to the harsh wea­for all members of the student body, faculty and staff. There will be 
ther. Officials hope to reschedule the contest for sometime next three divisions: one for intermediate players, one for advanced week. -The Obseroer players and one for mixed doubles teams. The deadline for entries is Wednesday, Feb. 20. For more information, call the NVA office at 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting
239-6100.-The Obseroer 
today at 6:30 p.m. in O'Shaughnessy room 204. All members should attend. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Squash Club will play host The SMC varsity baseball team will be hold­
to the regional lnsilco tournament next weekend at the ACC. Two 
ing tryouts beginning Tuesday, Feb. 19 from 3:30p.m. to 5:30 p.m. 
winners will receive an expense-paid trip to Chicago in April. All Anyone who is interested may contact the reservation desk at the members ofthe student body, faculty and staffare invited to sign up Angela Athletic Facility for other scheduled practices. -The Obseroer by today in the ACC. -The Obsen'er 
An interhall swimming meet is being held byAn interhall wrestling tournament is NVA onTuesday, Feb. 19. Hall representatives must submit a list of 
being sponsored by NVA. The deadline for submitting entries is entries and divers must provide a list of dives to Dennis Stark by today. For information. contact the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Monday, Feb. 18. For more information, call Coach Stark at 239­Obseroer 6222.-The Obseroer 
The ND/SMC GolfClub willbemeetingtomorrow Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday 
at 6:15p.m. at gate 2 ofthe ACC. For more information, contactJane. through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Obseroer office on the third -The Obseroer floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written. -The Obseroer 
St. John's beats Lions 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Chris Mullin and Walter Berry scored 14 points each as top-ranked St. John's broke loose in the second half and extended its winning streak to 1 5 games with a 68-49 college basketball victory over Columbia Tuesday night. 
The Redmen, with the longest winning streak in Division 1, raised their record to 20-1, while the lions fell to 7-11. 
St. John's shot out to a 26-8 lead with Mullin and Berry totaling 14 points between them, but the lions, using a deliberate offense and having no player taller than 6-foot-4, out­scored the Redmen 14-4 over the last 7:18 and only trailed by 30-22 at intermission. 
Mike Moses added 10 points and center Bill Wennington nine for the Redmen, while Mark Murphy and Mark Settles each scored 12 for the lions, who suffered their third straight loss. 
Tbt• Ohsl'rl'er Notn: Dame office. locunl on tht· third tloor of l.ah>nune Student Center, accc:pts dassifiell allvenisin~ from 9 a.m. until·! p.m.. ,\lonllay throu~h Friday. Thl' Obserr•er Saint :VIary's officl'. l<Katnl on the third tloor of Haggar College Ct·nter. accepts dassifil'lls from 12:50 p.m. until -~p.m .. :vi on­day though Friday Deadline for next-day <:Iassilit'lb is 5 p.m. All das"finls must he prt·paill. either in person or hy mail. ( .hargt· is I 0 cents per fin· charac­




Classifieds 
t<:rs er dav. 
LOST: Mans T1mex watch outstde of ar KEVIN -EN LA CORBATA ROJA, If TRON-MAKE THE GRADE1!! MAKE
1"11 buy Valentine's Day gilts not. 
ACC raquetball court Monday ntle. Feb 4 someone were truly interested 1n you. THE GRADE!!! MAKE THE GRADEIItNOTICES I'm not sentimental but I miss the little guy FOR RENT what would it take to get you to notice? -THE KOREAN Conlacl David at x43S8 NEED RIDE to U. ol 1./Champatgn thrs Have you been invited to the prem1er
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5 Two students to share apt stove and refrigerator. good neighbor hood 288­
FOUND: ONE LOOSE CAR KEY Get in? Getover? Get through? Friday lo Sunday. Call Marya al 1276 or Viking SOCJal event ol the season? FAS­
FRIDAY, 2/8. NORTH QUAD JOHN Get out! 1296. TELAVNSFESTE BE THERE• 
0955/2n-3804
2483.
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 

RIDERS NEEDED TO NASHVILLE TO JANET -3 MONTHS AND 2 WEEKS? RACE THOMAN! VOTE RACE FOR WKEND OF FEB22. CALL MIMI J4283 HAS IT REALLY BEEN THAT LONG? MY 
TYPING AVAILABLE Semi-furnished home, good nerghbor­
O.C. SENATOR. CONDOLENCES THE CRISCO287-4082 DID YOU REALLY NEED MY PHYSICS hood 255-3684/288-0955 DANA BAINBRIDGE, KRIST! HEFT. QUEEN.
BOOK SO BADLY? ITS GOOD TC 

BARB STEVENS, & BYRON STEVENS­FORGET FLORIDA!I SKI ASPEN.
KNOW THAT THE PEOPLE HERE ARE COLORADO THIS SPRING BREAK. PIMae-Shlrfey In The Observer TED FITZPATRICK IS A GOD. LOVE.
TYPING SO TRUSTWORTHY. IF YOU HAVE 
AND GET A TAN TOO. $3971NCLUDES THE PUERTO RICANS. 
JACKIE BOGGS ANY CHARACTER YOU Ll PUT 11 Marc needs ride this week-end to any NETRANSPORTATION. 7 NIGHTS
WANTED
684-8793 BACK WHERE YOU GOT IT. NOT THA 1 

LODGING. AND A 6 DAY LIFT PASS TO OHIO city. preferably Canton. Please call EDWARDO-I"ve heard that Ayres has aI HAVE ANY HOPE OF THAT .. YOU 4141.
ALL FOUR OF ASPENS MOUNTAINS sale on GREEN hand towels" -Your Fa­HAVE OBVIOUSLY SHOWN YOUR IF INTERESTED CALL 3630 OR 3573 vorite SMMMM. 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8S34 AFTER 5:31 TRUE NATURE TOO BAD YOU NEED RIDE TO WESTERN CHGO 
I have "come on down, now where do COULDN'T HAVE LEFT ME MY SUBURB. FEB. 15 KATHLEEN 284-4416 you want me to go?-Tony A PAUL-Is this what you are lookrngWOROPROCESSING AND TYPINt PAPERS NOT THAT IT MATTERS. BUT lor???? 827 Flenner is lhe best place to
272-8827 I NEEDED TO TURN THOSE IN TTOO BORN TO SWING FROM CHAN­This marks the begrnning of ALEX CANO be!!!! I told that I would put lhis in theBAD I FORGOT THAT PEOPLE CAN'T ~=emaJe roommate wanted to share 2­
week. He will be accepting hugs. krsses Typing/Word Processrng -Term Pape" BE TRUSTED. bedroom apt. $175/mlh II ulililies. 277­
DELIERSIII DON SEYMOUR AND PAT paper. M· 
and smiles all week. 
MURPHY THEONLYDJS THAT MAT­
Resumes, etc. Edrlrng avarlable Cal 4122 
TEAl WHAT MORE CAN YOU ASK Kathi Miller. our great A.A.: 
Andrea -9-11 pm. 283·3880. lost pair of gloves and hallett on bus alter FOR? HIRE THE ONLY DJS THAT MAT­THANKS to the Transpo bus & pas­Thanks, lor all you do. lhrs personals forChrcago Trip please bring lo Dr Holman I need a ride to Chicago area on 2/15. Call sengers to Campus View for helping me
TEA! FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY OR SYR you! Happy A.A. Day' Love, 
NEED TYPING. CALL DOLORES 277 Tom 1078. 
out of a BIG DRIFT1AL CAP 5 North McCandless CALLDONAT35730RPAT AT33180R8045. PICKUP AND DELIVERY. 
3317. THANK YOU 
LOST: ONE GOLD AND PEARL Need ride or nders to COLUMBUS START YOUR CAREER NOW Fri.15th -17th. Call Bonnie at SMC at
EARING. FRIDAY NIGHT COULD BE 
IF YOU GOT IT. I NEED IT !! I NEED 4 THE 8 O'CLOCK BREAKFAST CLUBt
Earn money and work on Fortune sor ANYWHERE IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 5482. 
GA"S FOR THE BYU GAME IF YOU To all the people who helped push the BREAKFAST CLUB' BREAKFASTCompanies' marketing programs or 284-5156. 
CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN DISTRESS Obaerver van yesterday when It got stuck CLUB! JOIN NOW1C.J.C. 
campus. Part-tune (flexrble) hours eac­

-THANKS. week. We grve references. Call 1·80( FOUND: APAIR OF WHITE MITTENS IN PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT 3714 
RIDE NEEDED TO CENTRAL PA OR
243-6679. THE OBSERVER SMC DAY OFFICE 
WASH D.C. THIS WEEKEND -CALL HEY CREEP• 
CANCLAIMM-F 12:30-3PM THE PLACE
JOHN 288-1096 SUMMER PROGRAMS-MAY 22-JUNE WHAT MAKES YOU THINK YOU RE EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALt 
BP SYR 85 MRS. COKER. 233-700i. 
21, LONDON (lrel•nd, Scot. Paris) and ABUSED? AT LEAST I LOVE YOU.? 
June 16 -July 15 ROME (P•rio, Ger. SWitz, lt.ly) Org•nlzatlonal meeting
FREE OFFER: Whoever rilled lhroug· "'MISSING my lan PATAGONIAtackelll THE PARTICIPANTS 
Mon. : Feb. 18 349 Madeleva (7:00 -BIG RECKLESS lsn"l lnendshtp lun?
rs my only wrnler 1acket and I need tl back soon. Last seen at St. Marys Clubhouse 
my backpack rn the library Saturday an FOR SALE Four unknown midwestern types attend­love, Your Big Sis 
London -8:00 Rome.) For Info Call
stole my welkman . you can slop by rr 
ing a pseudo-major midwestern univers1ty 
Prof. A. R. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726.
Sat. nrte Gall Kevtn x2474 No questrons room to pick up the AM/FM tunrng pac• YO T WE HAD A GREAT TUEDDEE.
asked.
and extra set of batterres Call Kurt a 

CEREBRUS CEREBRUS CEREBRUS BUT OUR FAVORITE DAY IS TODAY 
3249. P.S. Thank you so much tor nc 5 BEDROOM HOUSE. FULLY FUR· 
CEREBRUS THE ALTERNATIVE' HUMPDAY! luv. the gang 
takrng any ol my books NISHED. CLEAN AND IN NICE NEIGH­
THE EVENT BORHOOD GOOD INVESTMENT 
SquMk...Squeak...Squeak BLOWING KISSES AT 10 PACES BRO VI FOR UMOC 
CAMPUS CRUSADE FOR TRIDENTINE LOST:One BURGANDY ASCENTE $24.000 288-3109 EVENINGS MIXED DOUBLES MASS OFFICE OF UNIVERSITY MINI 1acket in LaFortune. II you took II, ace•· KEVIN -I THINK BIG WHEEL RIDERS
STAY dently or otherwtse. please return 1t. If APPLE Software:lie Wordprocessrng 
Need ride to CHICAGO Northwest sub­ARE HOT!! LOVE YA. PATTI you·re nol wtllrng to grve up the 1ackel Package $80(negoliable); call4364 urbs. Call Fran 2598. Kevin and Szan • victorius please return the IDs. I've been lookrng AYATOLLAH BOO BOO drrves a hardforward to th1s coming weekend for gomg Need ride lo CHICAGO Northwest sub­batter luck next duel, peg and cat!! bargatn. RIGHT DAN???? 
on 21 years. and 11 lUSt wouldn t be the urbs. Weekend ol Feb. 15-17. Call Frana! 
same w1thout my hcense Thanks Patncta 
LOST/FOUND 

2598. NEED YOUR CAR SHOVELED OUT ?
x2910 
TICKETS 
A FLING IS A WONDERFUL THING UN· CALLMARKal1597 Need ride to NORTHWESTERN or TIL SOMEONE LOSES AN EYE• LOST: GREEN SWEATER IN CUSHINC, nearby area. Weekend ofFeb. 15-17. Call R()()t.1 208 IF FOUND. CALL JOHN A. 
HELPIll I lost my Uncles watch It was a HEY SCOT MUSIC 
r----------,
IF YOU GOT IT. I NEED IT !! I NEED Miriam4174. MATIHEW IT"S 
2196 NO QUESTIONS ASKED silver Bulova Aculron wrth lhe rnscrrplron FOUR (4) GA"S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF Valentine's
TIME Here rs your ad silly!!! '"George Backhaus on the back The 
YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN LUNCH LUNCH LUNCH LUNCH 
band was broken oN on the right s1de of DINO SULLIVAN IS THE ROOT OF ALL 
Day Special
DISTRESS PLEASE CAll RAMONA AT LUNCH LUNCH LUNCH. THURSDAY
LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETTER JACKET IS the watch lace. Please call Paul at at3300 

3714. FEB. 1411:36-1:30 EVIL AT NOTRE DAME... 
STILL AT LARGE REWARD FOR AN~ or come up lo 302 Keenan Defmate CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNSINFORMATION LEADING TO THE AR Reward $$$ offered BLACK ONYX RING (birthday present)NEED 2 GA"s lor BYU!! Will pay bucks•REST AND CONVICTION OF ITS CAP 

Call John 1567 and men·s RAZOR stolen out ol yellowTORS. PLEASE CALL J.R: REID A 1 
50¢ off
THE RABBIT LIVES!!! VW Rabbrt in parking lot east ot sladrum 2n-7561 IF YOU HAVE ANY KNOWL taken 2/12 a.m. Please call 239-6423 EDGE OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. Found:a SMC school rrng al Junror For­wilhinlo. 
mal call Btll x3267 
HELP! Famrly coming lo visit' Srster RIDE NEEDED TO U OF I. CHAMPAIGN LOST: A pau of black Ana women s Sill would die to see Rrvers play• Need tix lor ON FRIDAY. FEB. 15 -RETURNING IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS Send your
Lost: RED DOWN tacket. Last seen at the 
small glovee in rm. 208 O"Shag. I kno• Clubhouse at St. Marys on Fnday nrght BYU game1Gall Gretchen at 1270. SUNDAY. CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR Today is lhe last day for Valentrne s Day 
somebody has them lltound. please call 1296. PLEASE KEEP TRYING CUZ I M delivery orders' ORDER NOW' IRISH lovers & friends
Please return, call Brll at at 4644 No 
NEVER HOME! GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
Stephanre at 3738. or return them to 24·• Need 2 G.A. Marquette trckets. Call Dan
questions asked If you don I return 11 Bedin. Thanks. 2360 
a Valentine
wilhtn one week. Harold S. wrll hunt you WANTED RIDE TO DENVER FOR Rider needed to Marquette Frrday Feb 15 doWn!I 
SPRING BREAK. I'LL BE YOUR FRIEND Leave 11:00 A.M. Return Sunday alter­in The Observer LOST: parr of black gloves on Sunday evenrng In Rock. They are grits lrom 
FOR LIFE. CALL JUSTINE 2633 noon. CaH lisa 2113-2895 somebody very dear Please call 1167 or 
LOST· maroon scarf rn Cushrng lues PERSONALS What is reality? P.S. -What an unexpected surpnse1
leave them in Rock Just bring in this 
~/5. lllound, call Liz 1992 What is illusron? let"s get together over a Flanner p1zza Is there a difference? and discuss this-K? coupon and receive 
LOST:MEN"S NO CLASS RING KMS IN· OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. 50 cents off yourSCRIBED ON INSIDE IF FOUND CARRY OUT "TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., Get out ol bed on the rrght srde --wrth PLEASE CALL al3204 REWARD HELP LOST llosl my keys at lhe brar or ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. MAKE A DATE FOR LUNCH WVFI morning DJ"s. Tune rn and hear the next Valentine's Day 
somewhere behind P W. My roommates THURSDAY FEB. 14 11:30-1:30 CEN­7-9 DJ"s: Paul Grorgranr on Mondayg personal. Ads will LOST ONE BROWN FOZZY THE BEAR dont like me and keep lockrng me out My TER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS Meg Payne on Tuesdays. Ned Rerdy on 
appear in a special
WATCH SANS WRISTBAND NO REAL rector her keys to my car so now I can t Wednesdays. and Kate Chester on MONETARY VALUE BUT I AM WILLING dnve. (H V.day-A G D) iF YOU SEE A Wanted: One valentine Contact Mary IRISH BOXER SHORTS" Thursdays Beat the South Bend blues section of the Feb. TO PAY TO SEE MY LITTLE FOZZY S SET OF KEYS lor room 522 on a rrng wtlh 425 Lewrs $5/parr withWVFI' 
14 Observer. One 
SMILING FACE AGAIN THANKS a blue piastre hook call LOU at411 0-help call Liz at2761 X4t73 BEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE: 423 Lyons A message to afl members of Campus coupon per order. 
DAYTONA BEACH1! WHEN: SPRING Crusade lor Cthulu: Cthulu rs about as 
Hurry! Offer expires
LOST: A thrn green and black pla•d wool BREAK "85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­powerful as a soggy baloney sandw•ch LOST black onyx rrng and mens razor scarf Last seen at MTV v1deo dance DENTS. CALL 239-5136 OR STOP BY KEVIN -EN LA CORBATA ROJA, Turn to Jesus Christ. the source ol all 3 p.m. February 13, out of yellow VW rabbit parked '" lot eas1 around 1:00AM SENIOR CLASS OFFICE. 1.5 someone were truly Interested 1n you power Bel1eve 1t or not, Jesus still loves 1985. olsladrum, call239-6423 wrlh 1nlo 
II you have rl please call John at 1725 LAFORTUNE. MON-FRI. 6-9pm whal would it lake to get you 10 notice? you more than ever! Repent! Amen 


L----------­
The Observer Wednesday, February 13, 1985 -page 9 
~·~~46UtiJ4tS~ Wales Conference beats Catnpbell 
• 


Conference in NUL All-Star Game 
Show ND or SMC student or staff ID 
and get a 10% discount 
•
p 18061 State Road 23 
~ ~  Near Ironwood South Bend, Indiana 46637  
T.G.I.T.hursday  
Sl\1~ft~;t * bring a friend skiing and you will ski and drink free  
* BUY 1TICKET-GET 1 FREE *BUY 1RENTAL-GET 1FREE Thursdays OFFER EXPIRES WHEN THE SNOW EXPIRES *15 SLOPES CHAIRLIFTS SHOW I.D.  

Associated Press 
CALGARY, Alberta · Pittsburgh's Mario Lemieux, the National Hockey League's top draft pick last summer and leading rookie scorer, collected two goals and an assist Tuesday night to lead the Prince of Wales Conference to a 6-4 victory over the Clarence Campbell Confer­ence in the 37th All-Star Game. 
Lemieux, the most touted rookie to enter the league in more than a decade, was named the game's most 
· valuable player. He had given the Wales a 4-21ead at I7:47 of the second period after taking a pretty pass from fellow rookie Kirk Muller ofthe NewJersey Devils and slipping a wrist shot past goalie Grant Fuhr. · Just four minutes before Lemieux's first goal, Anders Hed­berg of the New York Rangers had broken a 2-2 tie. Hedberg, at 3 3 the oldest player in the game and in his final NHL season, 
took a pass from Lemieux and sent home a backhander from the slot. It was Hedberg's first NHL all-Star game. 
The Wales Conference got off to a quick start, scoring twice in the first 5:31. 
Hartford's Ron Francis put in a IO­foot backhander from the slot just 
I :40 into the contest. Philadelphia's Tim Kerr, who set up Francis' goal, made it 2-0. 
But the Campbells, who have won just two of I 0 games under the pres­ent format, rallied on goals by Mar­cel Dionne and Miro Frycer. 
Dionne, the Los Angeles Kings' center appearing in his eighth All· Star game, had his 35-foot wrist shot deflect off the glove of Wales defen­seman Mike Ramsey and into the net just 62 seconds after Kerr's goal. 
Frycer, a Czechoslovakian native who plays for Toronto, zipped a 25· foot wrist shot past goalie Tom Bar­rasso after taking the puck off Lemieux's stick at I6:55. 
NUL Standings 
In this year"s NHL playoff format. the top four teams in each division make the playoffs, regardless of over­all league standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Adams Division Smythe :>vision 
W L T GF GA Pta. W L T GF GA Pta Buffalo 27 15 12 202 152 66 Edmonton 40 10 6 283 185 86 Montreal 27 19 10 214 187 64 Calgary 28 21 7 256 220 63 Quebec 26 22 8 223 199 60 Winnipeg 28 23 6 246 249 62 Boston 25 24 . 7 209 199 57 Los Angeles 24 22 10 250 237 58 Hartford 17 30 6 180 241 40 Vancouver t6 33 8 194 291 40 
Patrick Division Norris Division Washington 34 14 8 237 163 76 St. Louis 25 19 10 208 201 60 Philadelphia 31 16 7 227 170 69 Chicago 25 28 3 218 215 53 NY Islanders 30 22 3 253 215 63 Minnesota 16 29 10 187 222 42 NY Rangers 17 29 9 191 227 43 Detroit 16 31 9 203 255 4t 
Pittsburgh 18 29 5 186 238 41 Toronto t3 35 7 171 237 33 New Jersey 17 29 7 183 218 41 
NHL scoring king Wayne Gretzky lifted the Campbells within 4-3 with his seventh All-Star goal at I0:09 of the third period. Edmonton's Mike Krushelnyski stole the puck from defenseman Scott Stevens and fed Gretzkyin the slot, where the Oilers' star center put a wrist shot past goalie Pelle Lindbergh. 
Exactly one minute later, Lemieux skated around Winnipegs' Paul MacLean and banked a short wrist shot off Fuhr and into the net. Boston's Ray Bourque picked up his third assist ofthe game on Lemieux's clinching goal. Bourque added a fourth assist later in the game. 
Krushelnyski, who had three as­sists, set up Randy Carlyle in the slot for the Campbell's fourth goal with 2:5I remaining. 
With just nine seconds to go, Washington's Mike Gartner scored into an empty net on a feed from Bourque. 



Alabama 
continued/rom page 12 
impressive is her 60-percent field­goal percentage. Forward Pam Tim· merman and backup center DeeDee Davis also will see a good amount of playing time. 
As a team, the Tide has taken ad­vantage of its good· 48-percent shooting to outscore its opponents by an average of I I points per game. However, Alabama has been less than impressive from the foul line, dropping only 64 percent of its free throws. In close games, the latter fig· ure has proven costly. 
"They're going to throw a lot of players at us," says DiStanislao. "They like the up-tempo, so they'll play tough perimeter defense and 

The Official Notre Dame Response to 
THE BISHOP'S PASTORAL LEITER 
will be the topic of a panel discussion sponsored by Omicron Delta Epsilon. 
Copies of the letter are available for SOc at th esc.' 
7:30pm 
TONIGHT CCE 


$75 deposits due by Thursday, Feb. 14  $2!1!1 and  
DRYTDNR BERCH  
$1!1!1  

Meeting at 7:00 on Feb. 14 in LaFortune Little Theatre 
...___Sign-up at the Record Store in LaFortune ____. 
look to push the ball up the floor on offense. 
"The keys for us will be stopping their transition game and controll­ing the boards, but it's going to take some intelligent defense. We're going to have to get good position and take advantage of it. I feel, though, that we're going down there in good shape to win the game. They might be a little quicker, but we can match up pretty well with them." 
As usual, the Irish will be looking for forward Trena Keys to carry a large share of the offense. The 6-0 junior set a school record Saturday in Notre Dame's I07-6I rout of Xavier when she scored in double figures for the IIth straight game. Her 53 points in two North Star games last week earned her a share of the conference's player of the week award. 
Maybe even more important for the Irish, though, will be the play of center Sandy Botham, who will have the unenviable task of trying to stop Smith. The 6-2 freshman has been very impressive in recent weeks and DiStanislao is confident that she will be up to the task. 
But whether or not the team will be up to the task, the outcome ofthe game is of secondary importance to the Irish. Notre Dame finds itself in a good position in the conference, a half-game behind leader Dayton. The Irish season will be made or bro­ken by the remaining conference games, the next of which will be Sunday when Detroit visits the ACC at 2 p.m. 



TYPING ·­
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 

The Observer Wednesday, February 13, 1985-page 10 

~--;0-0~::;:c;A:--1

Men's interhall basketball season 
Buy 15 visits II at$40 I

ends; Sorin finishes up undefeated 
get5FREE 1 I I 
ByJERRY MELIA The Pac Ten division featured the The team that emerges from the 
:-------------~ 
Sports Writer only undefeated team in the entire loser's bracket into the finals is at a 
I I
BED SPECIAL
league. Sorin, with a 7-0 record, un­disadvatage because it must defeat 
~ ~~ Tan with your t!Jc(Jf!.Jftl
The men's interhall basketball 'A' doubtedly is the favorite to win the the winner from the winners' 
f:J() I I
Valentine fJ()r:? 7 visits $28
league wrapped up its regular championship as a result of its regu­bracket twice in order to gain the 
~~ I (rP.g. $39) I
(or someone else's) ~ 
season Monday night when Flanner lar season excellence. St. Ed's was championship title. 
c:; I I 
beat Zahm 48-40 in the ACC divi­the other team to advance to the The system for seeding the teams sion. This game was of great conse­post-season from this division, has not yet been determined. Sorin 
!--------------1 
quence to the final divisional losing only once in seven outings. almost has a lock at the top seed be­standings. Flanner won the division This loss came at the hands ofSorin. cause of its undefeated regular 
COMBO SPECIAL 6 bed & 6 booth 




TAN-HAW~ I II
with a 6-1 record while Zahm's The playoffs are conducted as fol­season record. However, difficulty 
sun tonnrg solon I 
visits $49 I
defeat knocked it out of playoff par­lows. The top two teams from each will come in seeding the remaining 
277-7026 I -plus-I 
ticipation. Dillon was the other team division make the playoffs. The teams, because of the fact that four 
2 bed & 2 booth 
l 
in this division to advance with a teams are then seeded, with the top teams have only one loss. 
REDEEM BY FEB. 14, 1985 I FREEforafriend record of 5-2. two teams receiving a first-round This year's tournament should In the Big Ten division, Morrissey bye in the double elimination for­prove to be rather exciting with the 
..----------------L------------­
and Grace both will see post· season mat. The remaining four teams clash caliber of teams that are competing. action after compiling 6-1 records. according to the seeding, and both All ofthe "patsy" games are over and However, Morrissey finished as the winners' and losers' brackets brack­it is time to see what team is best divisional winner, since it defeated ets are developed. The games are ar­prepared to handle the best compe­Grace during the regular season. ranged in such a way that the same tition in the league. The team that is Both teams are strong and will teams will not meet twice unless best able to meet this challenge will definitely make some noise in the they are both competing in the be the 1985 champion of the men's playoffs. finals. interhall basketball league. 
Will be done at random 
British will implement drug testing 
not, our athletes could be at a disad­have been confined to competitive 
vantage." events, meaning that athletes who 
LONDON · The British Amateur British athletes hoping to com­use drugs out-of-season or in train­Athletic Board will implement one pete internationally, including at ing theoretically can manipulate of the world's strictest anti-drug Olympic Games and world cham­their intake to avoid detection. policies · random tests for track-nd­pionships, will be asked to sign a spe­The U.S. Olympic Committee re­field athletes that could disqualify cial register pledging their quires that anyone representing the anyone refusing to take them from willingness to be tested for drugs ~at United States in the Olympics, the representing Britain in international any time ofthe year. Pan American Games or the World competition. "If they do not sign, then they will University Games has to pass a man­
"We would like to think Britain is not be invited to represent Britain in datory drug test. Some U.S. federa­taking a fresh lead in the field ofdrug our sport," said Cooper. tions require drug testing ofathletes abuse and that other nations will fol­Although more than 20 sports in at national championships. But the low suit," board Secretary Neil Britain are subject to year-round U.S. athletes know when the blood Cooper said Tuesday. "If they do testing, checks in track and field samples will be taken and by whom. 




~~~C3L~------------------------------------~-e_d_n_e_~_a_y_,F_e_b_ru_ruy 1_3_,_19_8_S P_a_g_e_l_l 
Doonesbury Garry TrudeaU; 
5EJ.JI(T[)R, ARE W CON­
·wwiN'JAKE"
CE.RNEPTHAT 'rW MI6HT 
/IKJT GAI?N. A MAN
VET IN 7H& WAY OF TH& 
AT ANlJHIS M/9j/{}N.
i A5TRONAIJT5/AIHO Witt., AU.. I1 A~ At.t., 8tIXJIN6 
""'­

: 7H& 5ER/af5 /AICIRK2 
: ~~~':.-.---==-­
.., 
i 
~-­
2-13 
TankMcNamara jeffMillar & Bill Hinds 



Campus 
•12 
p.m. -Lecture, "Law, History & the Option for the Poor," Prof. Robert Rodes, ND, Room 105 Law School, Sponsored by Social Justice Forum/Federalist Society. 

•3:30 
-4:30 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Lotus( 1 ), Room 104 Computing Center, Free, Call 239-5604 to Register. 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, Robert Sullivan, Sr., Sullivan Oil Company, MBA Entrepreneurial Lecture Series, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by MBA Class. 

•4 
-5 p.m. -Workshop, "Job Offer Decision Making," Kate Dascenzo, Assistant Director, Career & Placement Services, Career & Placement Offices. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Dimuon Physics," Dr. Paul Lebrun, Fermi National Ac­celerator Laboratory, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Dinner Movie, "To Catch a Thief," Saga's Wedgeroom (SMC). 

•4:30 
p.m. -MicrobiologySeminar,"The Role of Cobalamins in the Development of Parasitic Hel­minths," Dr. Paul Weinstein, ND, Room 278 Gal­vin. 

•6 
-7 p.m. -Meeting, Senior Ski Trip, Ubrary Auditorium. 

•6:
1 5 p.m. -Circle K Meeting, Center for Social Concerns. 

•7 
p.m. -Wednesday Night Film Series, "Salesman," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. New Orleans, ACCArena 

•7-10 
p.m.-Class, Married & Engaged Couples, Sponsored by University Ministry & Natural Family Planning, Call237-7401 or 288-2662 to Register. 

•7 
p.m.-Film/Discussion, "Your Nieghbor's Son: The Making of a Torturer," Peg Falls, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by ND Branch of Am­nesty International. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Panel Discussion, Pastoral Letter on 


Catholic Social Teaching and the U.S. Economy, 
Panelists: Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. Williams, Prof. Trubac, Charles Craypo & James Rakowski, CCE Auditorium, Free. 58 p.m. -Lecture, "The Divine Office: Monastic Choir, Prayer Book or Liturgy ofthe Hours: Reflec­tions on the Recent Reform on the Roman Breviary," Rev. Robert Taft, S.]., Oriental Institute Rome, Library Auditorium. 
45 Wing-footed 53 Instrument
The Daily Crossword 
46 Irritated tone 54 At a distance 47-in on , 55-majesty 
34 Natural 64 Likesome 12 Pivot (profited from) 56 SweetsopACROSS 
deposit cheese 13 Calendar abbr. 49 Ship part 58 Printer's 36 Male ones 65 Bucephalus 18 Go to extremes 50 Bones measures
1 Balneal event was one 19 Lehr 51 Shake-59 Track5 Missouri river 
37 Scuffs 66 Argus had 1 00 52 Father 60 Once called 10 Song or slug 41 Gallic time 
ending 23 Be told
of year Tue~ay's Solution
24 Fabric for DOWN42 Person of rank

14 Measure veils
43 Let

15 Blends 16 Certain dwelling 1 Strike 25 Resisting one44 Bounties
17 Inadvertence 2 Philippines 26 Seriousof a kind 47 Writer timber tree 27 Narrow ridge McCullers 3 Ornamentation 
28 Wet

48 Whip 4 Marching20 Garment part 
49 Something syllable21 Selfsame disliked 5 Suggests 30 Tall birds 22 Amphorae 31 Left-hand 1·age
6 "Kama-"
23 Queen in Gr. 32 Place near
50 Refuge

myth Dusseldorf
53 Most unlikely 34 Success54 Selma's state: 7 Gray 35 System24 Oriental weight abbr. 8 Turn rigl'lt 

26 Weapons 57 Road sign 9 Based: abbr. 
29 Weaken in a 61 Dry 10 Close 38 Bettor's item way 62 Care for 11 Quiche 39 River in Neb. 

©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
33 Mountain nymph 63 Moderate ingredient 40 "-Goriot" All Rights Reserved 2/13/85 


for late night munchies 
~------------Record Store-----1 




S~orts 

Tht Observer/VIc Guari;; 
Dar,id Rivers, shown here diving for the ball against Syracuse, will lead the Irish into their game tonight against the Privateers of New Or-
Irish hope for strong performance tonight against visiting Privateers 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
There has been a great deal of talk this week about the upcoming Notre Dame men's basketball game against Duke on Saturday at the Meadowlands. But before the Irish can concentrate on the Blue Devils, they must face the Privateers of the University of New Orleans in a game tonight at 7:00 at the ACC. 
Since New Orleans owns a record of just 9-16 after Monday's 93-76 victory over Pan American, there is a great tendency to take tonight's game for granted and simply add an­other victory to the year's total. 
But this Privateer squad has talent which the Irish cannot alford to overlook. 
Heading the list is 6-8 center­forwardJohn Harris. The 250-pound senior currently is averaging 20.1 points and 9.9 rebounds per game, leading the team in both categories. Harris possesses a strong inside game and a soft shooting touch out to 15 feet. 
Six-five senior Robert Johnson helps Harris out at forward, contri­buting 1'5.4 points and 4_7 rebounds per game. Together, this pair ac­
counts for half of the points scored 
by the Privateers. 
New Orleans also will have the tal­lest player on the court in tonight's game. Seven-foot freshman center Hannes Haid pulls down 5.1 rebounds per contest, second on the team, while scoring 5.4 points per game. Haid, a native of Innsbruck, Austria, gives the Privateers the height they need, although averaging only 24.5 minutes per game. 

The Irish front line, however, should be able to use both its bulk and height for an advantage. Ken Barlow ( 1 '5.7 points, 7. 2 rebounds per game), Tim Kempton (7_3, 5.0), Jim Dolan ( 4.2, 4_6) and ever­improving Donald Royal (7.7, 4.8) should be able to dominate the smaller Privateers inside. 
At the guard position, inexperi­ence appears for New Orleans. Freshman swingman Sam Jones heads the backcourt with 7.2 points and 4.8 rebounds per game. The 6-6 Jones, who hails from Monticello, Fla., owns an excellent outside shooting touch and has enough strength to also score inside. 
Six-three junior Rocky Adrianson and 6-1 freshman Gave Corchiani 
also contribute in the backcourt for 
the Privateers. Corchiani scores 6.0 
points per game, while Adrianson 
helps out with 5.4. 
The Irish backcourt, led by fresh­
man David Rivers, is starting to gel at 
this point in the season, and will get 
a chance to tune up in preparation 
for. Duke. Rivers, averaging 14.4 
points and 4.5 assists per game, has 
cut down on his turnovers in recent 
games. 
At the oii-guard slot, Scott Hicks 
(9.4 ppg)andJoseph Price ( 5_2 ppg) have alternated to give the Irish strong point production. · 
However, both Hicks and back-up point guard Dan Duff were sick and in the infirmary last night, and prob­ably won't be able to go tonight. 
The Privateers were expected to perform better this season, but a poor 3-12 record in road games has contributed to their downfall. But since going 4-10 in its first 14 games, New Orleans has been able to win five out ofits last 11. 
But if the Irish can keep from looking ahead to their trip to New Jersey ori Saturday, they should be able to overpower the Privateers with inside strength and quickness outside. 

Notre Dame visits Alabama 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Bdttor 
After finishing the first half of its North Star Conference schedule with an impressive 5-1 record, the Notre Dame women's basketball team will take a vacation from the conference as it travels to Alabama for a game tonight against the Crim­son Tide. 

The short vacation will be anyth­ing but relaxing for the Irish, however, as they will be facing one of the better teams in the country. Alabama is not currently in the Top 20, but has been in and out of the poll throughout the season. Despite being in the Southeastern Confer­ence, which is the toughest confer­ence In the country -four SEC teams are In the Top 20 -the Tide has been able to produce an impressive 16-9 record_ Obviously, Notre Dame will be hard-pressed to Improve on its 12-7 mark. 
"leaving the thick of the confer­ence race for a game outside is an 
interesting situation which we haven't had before," says Irish coach Mary DiStanislao. "But I'm looking forward to it as a real good test for us. Alabama is a solid team that's tough at home, so it won't be easy." 

Tonight's game is a rematch of Al­abama's 71-56 win over the Irish in the ACC two years ago. Scheduling problems forced the second part of the home-and-home series to be played at an unusual time. Despite the two-year delay, though, many players remain from the first game. 
The star of that first game, Carol Smith, was a freshman when she scored 25 points and dominated the middle against the Irish_ Now a junior, Smith has grown into an even more dominaJing player, emerging as one of the premier players in the nation. The 6-3 center's current averages of 17.8 points and 9-9 rebounds per game show that even the tough SEC teams are having problems containing her. 

"Carol Smith is as solid as a rock.," says DiStanislao, who knows that her players must shut down Smith in or­der to win. "She's emerged as the leader ofthe team. 
"Alabama, as a whole, posts a lot of points, though, so it's more than just Smith. She's the key, but they've got other people who can hurt you." 
In fact. there are six Alabama players who are averaging more than eight points a game. Much of the scoring punch comes from the backcourt, where juniors Sandra Rushing, Vickie Cox and Terry Howell are scoring more than 30 points each time out. The 5-8 Rush­ing, whose I0.6 scoring average is second on the team to Smith's, leads the team in assists with about four each game. 
Although Smith produces a large chunk ofthe inside offense, she does get some help from her teammates, especially forward Cynthia McDougal. The 5-11 freshman has contributed 9-5 points and 5.4 rebounds per game, but even more 
see ALABAMA, page 9 
------~--~--·~­
Wednesday, February 13, 1985-page 12 

Irish round turn into homestretch 

Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! 
In horse racing, there is a marvelous phrase to describe this time 
of the season. It's the time when you have just passed a crucial point 
on the track, and whatever happens between now and the finish line 
will decide the race. In the immortal words of Phil Georgette, 
longtime track announcer, "here they come spinning out ofthe turn 
and into the homestretch." 
The homestretch. It's where you see horses like Secretariat, 
Seattle Slew, and Man O'War pull away from everybody else. It's 
where champions are made. In the horse world, the homestretch is 
where you separate the thoroughbreds from those destined to be 
found in your next bottle ofElmer's Glue. In the basketball world, it's 
where you separate those who go to the NCAA from those who go to 
the NIT. 
The Irish have certainly come "spinning out ofthe turn." Between the times that those fans who had their pre-game lobotomies fired their oranges onto the court Saturday, Notre Dame played one ofits finest games ofthe season. Unfortunately, the effort went for naught, as Syracuse snapped Notre Dame's four-game winning streak with a three-point win over the Irish. It was a tough one to lose after such a great effort, but Notre Dame proved it can play with one of the top teams in the country for 40 minutes. That is not a fact that should be forgotten as Digger Phelps' squad heads into the homestretch. 
It is a track down through the homestretch that, in horse racing 
terms, may be considered "muddy." There are smooth spots, such as 
the games with New Orleans, Loyola ( Md. ), and Butler, that the Irish 
should be able to go through at full gallop. However, there are also 
games like Duke, BYU, Washington and Dayton which could keep 
the Irish from coming up on the outside. 
Notre Dame will need a late charge to emerge from a pack ofgood teams that are crowded together at the final turn. The matter is com­plicated when you consider all the teams which make the NCAA will not be thouroughbreds.ln fact, some ofthem will be old grey mares, which merely qualify because they get an automatic bid for winning a conference nobody knows about. That makes the task even toug­her for the Irish, because independents make the NCAA these days as often as a filly wins the Kentucky Derby_ Considering that only one filly has ever won the "Run for the Roses", that doesn't bode well for the Irish. 
The Irish have a 13-6 record, and that's good, but not outstanding. 
The opinion ofmost followers is that 20 wins would certainly get the 
Irish into the NCAA, 19 victories might get them to the big tourna­
ment, and 18 would be an extremely questionable propsition. With 
nine games remaining, it doesn't take an Einstein (or a Michelan­
gelo) to figure out that Notre Dame is going to have to beat some 
good teams to reach the finish line ahead of most of the field. 
Still, it is not an impossible task for Notre Dame, as they are finally 
getting into the groove they have been looking for all year. The 
emergence of Donald Royal and Jim Dolan on the front line, along 
with the continued solid play of David Rivers and Ken Barlow has 
helped Notre Dame establish some consistency. That's all everybody 
has been looking for from this team, and now that the Irish have it, 
good things are bound to happen. 
Hopefully, good things will happen this week, as the Irish take their first steps towards the final wire. New Orleans comes into the ACC tonight with a 9-16 record and one of the nation's leading scorers in 6-8 centerJohn Harris. On paper, the Privateers shouldn't give the Irish much ofa challenge after they come out ofthe gate, but after seeing the St. Louis game two weeks ago, don't be surprised if New Orleans keeps the tempo down. 
Meanwhile, Duke looms in the wings on Saturday at the Meadowlands. The seventh-ranked Blue Devils, at 17-4, have strength up and down the lineup, including all-America candidate Johnny Dawkins at guard. Phelps knows that Mike Krzyzewski's squad provides the Irish a chance to improve their standing in the NCAA race at a time where they need to win a big game against a good team. 
So, now is the time for the Irish to go to the whip, loosen the reins, and come out flying. Notre Dame's coming into the homestretch, and the race is on the line in the next nine games. This year the Irish have a chance to put themselves where the best of thoroughbreds wind up... the winner's circle. 
Pick of the Week .. One team that is currently racing towards the finish line is the Notre Dame women's basketball squad. Coach Mary DiStanislao's cagers have reeled off seven wins in their last eight games to raise their record to 12-7 and move to the top of the North Star Conference. 
Sunday afternoon, the Irish play host to Detroit in a key North Star Conference matchup at 2 p.m. in the ACC. The Irish came away with a win against the Titans earlier in the year at Detroit, but Dewyane Jones' team is long on talent. Still, Trena Keys has been red hot, as has the rest of this Irish team, so this one should be a dandy. Come out and see the "Showdown with Motown" Sunday afternoon at the 
ACC 





