HPC-page4 

Term extensions unconstitutional; constitution void 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
Copy Editor 
A five-member Judicial Council committee ruled early this morning that "the extension of the 1984-85 senate term was unconstitutional," and therefore any action taken by the senate after April I is invalid. 
Because the new student govern­ment constitution was passed by the senate April 1, like other proposals passt:d after that date, it is invalid. 
The Judicial Council committee met:ting became nect:ssary Monday after Studt:nt Body President-elect Bill Healy sent a letter to Judicial Co­ordinator. Tim McDowell, asking him to investigate the "constitutionality of the recent sen­ate's vote to extend their terms." If the st:nate's action was not constitu­tional, Healy requested "that all ac­tions since April 1 be nullified." 
McDowell, acting in line with the constitution, "supervised the ran­dom selection" of a committee composed ofJudicial Council chair­persons "to decide the issue at hand." 
lbe issue at hand, according to Healy's letter, was whether two­thirds of the entire senate is needed to amend the constitution or if two­thirds of those senators present is sufficient. 
'lbe constitution states that "An amendment to this constitutution may be proposed by a two-thirds vote ofall the voting members ofthe Student Senate." 
The senate had voted on March 25 to extend their terms, thereby amending the constitution, bya mar­gin of 10-4. This was two-thirds of those present but one vote less than two-thirds of the entire senate. 
President Rob Bertino, acting ac­cording to "the precedent set during the year," accepted the senate's vote, thus giving the senate an addi­tiona! two weeks to finish their work on the restructuring of student gov­ermnent. 
"('lbe two-thirds of members present) is the way I've been inter­preting it all year and no one ever questioned that interpretation," said Bertino, after learning of Healy's pe­tition Monday night. "If nobody questioned it then, then they shouldn't question it now." 
In his letter to McDowell, Healy stated, "I feel we are doing a great disst~rvice to the student body by making and breaking rules con­stantly. The senate is bound by the constitution, not vice-versa." 
Bntino said the senate extended their terms "basically because if we had not extended our terms there would have been no senate to take over as the constitution was amended. It was more or less a for­mality. We could have easily said we're not going to extend our terms and sped the new constitution through." 
"This (petition) will prevent 

there being an election this week for 
new senators. It'll allow the newly 
ele<:ted people to come in and 
as.'iume office, sit down, and discuss 
what the role ofstudentgovernment 
is," said Healy. "It'll give us the time 
to find that role and implement 
something that can facilitate what 
that role requires." 
"Many people will ask, 'Why bring this up now?' " said Healy, referring to his filing of his petition one week before the new constitution was to takt~ effect. "(Not bringing this up earlier) was my first major mistake as an elected official and I do apologize to everyone involved." 
"1 don't think it's time to leave this 

garbage behind," he said. "I was 
thinking of it over Easter break and I 
thought the b~st thing to do is to 
see VOTE, page 8 


Last night's Hall ofFame Game in the Bookstore Bandits cleans up an impromtu mess. The donkey Tournament was not without its "dirty" moments, was, however, not offensive in the scoring sense as as a helper for Donkey Hodie and the One-Armed the Bandits lost to Revenge ofthe Fun Bunch, 21-8. 
NAACP Director Hool{s to lecture about black problems, solutions 
By TOM MOWLE 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Tonight at 8, Benjamin Hooks will lecture in the Library Auditorium on what his host describes as "far­reaching problems that everyone must face." 
Hooks is the executive director of the National Association for the Ad­vancement of Colored People; his visit is part of this year's Black Cui­tural Arts Festival. Todd Young, the member ofthe Student Union Activi­ties Board who invited Hooks, said the NAACP director will speak on "the black history of unemploy­ment, poverty, and job discrimina­tion -how these problems are being dealt with and how they should be dealt with." 
Sociology Professor Joseph Scott advised all students to attend be­cause "enlightenment is better than ignorance." While recognizing that great strides have been made in this country toward equality and equal rights, Scott noted that there is still a long way to go. 
Hooks' lecture, he said, will "enlighten the audience about the imperfections still in our system and the consequences if these problems are not addressed." 
Scott said "the Reagan Administra­tion and the Civil Rights Commis­
see HOOKS, page 3 


Teaching the basics is urged for philosophy an(d theology 
Senior  
Time allowed to fulfill require­ment  Junior Sophomore  Sophomore  
Freshman  Freshman  
Current  Proposed  

The University Curriculum Committee recommended that the two course requirement in philosophy be completed before the end of the sophomore year. Currently, students have until graduation to fulfill the requirement. The Academic Council will vote on the proposal Monday afternoon. 
Editor's Note: Last spring the University Curriculum Commit­tee released a 17-page report out­lining several major changes in Notre Dame's core curriculum. For the last year, the Academic Council bas studied the report, and on Monday it will vote on eight proposals. Recommen­dations concerning the philoso­
phy and theology requirements are examined in the following story -part one ofa four-part se­ries focusing on the committee's proposals. 
By MIRIAM HILL 
Copy Editor 
Was it St. Augustine who said "Reason in man is rather like God in the world" or was that St. Thomas Aquinas? 
Chances are, if you are a Notre Dame student, you aren't too sure either. And that state ofaffairs bot­hers the University administration. 
That's why two years ago, efforts were initiated to strengthen the grasp students have on the history and basic problems in philosophy and theology. An ad hoc University Curriculum Committee was set loose to work on the problem, and the departments ofphilosophy and theology did a considerable amount ofsoul searching. 
Now on Monday afternoon the Academic Council will finally vote 

~urricu~um
~errev1ew 
on the committee's recommen­dations which are intended to make the life a philosophy or theol­ogy student something other than nasty, brutish and short. 
The proposed change in the phi­losophy requirement mandates that students tal<e a two-semester introductory course covering the following subjects: religious belief, ethics, the theory of knowledge, questions about immortality, poli­tical philosophy, and questions about freedom. This yearlong in­troductory course would be taken in sequential semesters before the end of the sophomore year. 
Students currently are required to take a one-semester introduc­tion to philosophy course by the end of the sophomore year, fol­lowed by a philosophy elective taken before graduation. 
The theology changes, which took effect this year, require stu­dents to take two theology courses. The first -Foundations of Theology: Biblical and Historical ­introduces students to the "critical study of Scripture and the forma­tive doctrinal developments of1>f the first five centuries of the C~ 
see CLASSES, page 3 

-~--~ ----------~-------~----~--~---­
The Observer Wednesday, April 10, 1985-page 2 


In Brief 
A Notre Dame Senior has joined two 1984 graduates who have been named winners of Mellon Fellowships in the Humanities. They will receive cash stipends of $8,000 to cover tuition and fees ofadvanced education as they prepare for a teaching career in such fields as English, history, philosophy, comparative literature and classics. The Notre Dame recipients arc Anna M. Kim, a senior majoring in philosophy who has selected classical philoso­phy for her post-baccalaureate study, from Columbus, Ohio; David Germano, studying comparative religions following his 1984 graduation, of South Bend; and John Ruffing, an English literature major of Dallas, Texas. · The Obseroer 
A Notre Dame junior'Kevin Gerard Shea ofVisalia, California, is one of six students in America to receive a summer research fellowship at the University ofTcxa.~ Health Sciences Cen­ter in San Antonio. Majoring in pre-professional studies in the Col­lege of Science, Shea will attend a special summer session in the Graduate School of Biomedical Science at the Texas university.-The Obsen'er 
A 1982 Notre Dame law graduate received 
a Lucc Scholarship, enabling him to spend a year in Asia with support from the Henry Lucc Foundation. Edward McNally, now working as a special assistant to the attorney general's chief of staff in the U.S. Justice Department, was one of I 5 young professionals from across the country who was selected for the program. He entered the Notre Dame Law School in 1979 after receiving his bachelor's degree from Yale. While at Notre Dame, he wa.~ an assistant editor of The Observer and managed his own public opinion polling firm. · The Obsen'er 
Of Interest 
Former Director of the Federal Mediation and Con­ciliation Service Wayne Horvitz will discuss "New Directions in In­dustrial Relations" today at 4: I 5 in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Horvitz was the government's chief mediator from 1977 to 1981, when he was involved in such disputes as the East Coast and Gulf Longshore negotiations, the 110-day coal strike, and negotiations involving petroleum, trucking, rubber and communication workers. The speech is part of the O'Neil Lecture Series and is open to the public.· The Obseroer 
Executive Director of the NAACP Ben­
jamin Hooks will speak tonight at 8 in the library Auditorium. A reception will follow. The speech is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Activities Board and the Black Cultural Arts Festival. · 
The ObsenJer 

The Vietnam War will be the topic of a lecture by Charles Tull, professor of history at Indiana University tonight at 
7:30 in Saint Mary's Carroll Hall. This month marks the tenth an­niversary ofthe end ofthe Vietnam War, and Tull's lecture will be an appraisal ofthe war after ten years. Tull holds a doctorate from Notre Dame and is the author of numerous publications dealing with American history. The lecture is sponsored by Saint Mary's Depart­ment ofHistory and is open to the public at no charge.· The Obseroer 
Hatha Yoga will be taught in a class at Pro l-lealth of Saint Joseph's Medical Center beginning tomorrow. The class will meet for six con..~ecutive Thursdays from 7 to 8:30p.m., and will be taught by Dorothy Chamblee. Preregistration is required. For more infor­mation, call Pro l-lealth at 232·3034. ·The ObsenJer 
Weather 

Windy. A change for the bett<;r may blow in.. Partly cloudy, windy and warmer today with a 40 percent chance for afternoon thundershowers. High near 50. Gusty south· west winds 25 mph. Tonight 30 percent chance for thundershowers. Lows in the low 40s. Partly cloudy tomorrow. High in the low 50s. ·AP 

The Observer 
Th~ Obsernr (USPS 599 l-4000) Is published Monday through Frl<.lay and on home footbaJJ Saturday!t, ex<.·epr during exam and vacation period~. Th~ Observ~r I• publi,he<.l by the 'tu<.lent' of the llnlver..lty of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Cullege. Sub,criplion' may be purchased for J ~0 per year ( JlO per se­mc:stc:r) by writing The Obs~rv~r, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Th~ Observoor Is a member of Th~ AModakd Press. All reproduction rlMJlL' arc: reserve:<.!. 
Today'!'! iS!'tUe was produced by: 
Design Editor................................ Andy Saal lJestgn Assisttmt ..................... Alex Peltzer Layout Staff. .......................... Pri,cilla Karle Typesetters ................................. Vic Guarino 
Ted Oorc News Editor....................... Bob Mw..,clman Copy Editor.................................john Hines Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Scheuermann Viewpoint Copy liditor..........joe Murphy Viewpoint Layout................. Carol Brown ND Day Edt/or .............. Cindy Rauckhorst .\MC Day Editor............................. Ed Nolan Ad Design .................................. Fred Nelson 
Catherine Ramsden Pbowgrapber .......................... Paul Kramer 

Yippie versus Yuppie:, differences are few 
What does the tenn "Yuppie" mean? 
Yuppie began as an acronym for Young Urban Profes­sional. It is a general term which refers to the frame of mind held by a group of upwardly-mobile, predominantly white, young adult college graduates. Many people who consider themselves to be Yuppies have furthered their education by earning a Master's degrees in law, medicine or business. 
Young urban professionals define themselves as being desirous of high income jobs and "smart" portfolios of income-generating assets. 
"Yuppie" was born out of the similar term "Yippie," which was also used by young people to define them­selves. The Yippies reached the peak oftheir popularity during the 1960s. 
There are many similarities between the people that consider themselves Yuppies and the people that con· sidered themselves Yippies. In their heyday, Yippies could be seen in public places wearing red tie-died shirts. Today, Yuppies can 
Dan 

McCullough 
News Editor 

We've all seen it. According to People it wa.~ the must-see film of 1983.lfyou haven't seen it, the film was about a group ofcollege friends from the 1960s coming ofage in the 1980s. The story tracks the development of a change in attitudes and values of these individuals ·· generally a change from the attitudes of Yippie-ism to the values ofYupp1e-ism. 
The characters in the film sense they are being hypocritical in embracing the financial ambitions ofthe Yuppies after so vehemently 
be seen wearing red-died supporting the social justice ties, usually silk. causes ofthe Yippies earlier. 
Yippies used to wear ''I'd hate to think it was all multi-colored headbands only fashion," said one char­and lovebeads. Yuppies acter in the film. This is a wear many-colored legitimate concern. Are the Walkmans and the obliga· values ofyoung adults deter­
tory connecting cords. mined exclusively by 
Yippies protested for whatever fa.o;hion is popular peace and racial equality. at the time? Yuppies protest against For some people this is South African apartheid. true. And these people make 
Where do the Yuppies up the heart of the Yuppie comefrom? movement. 
They come from univer­Are Yuppies really as sities like Notre Dame and dumb as they act? colleges like Saint Mary's all Yuppies are essentially 
across America. They stupid people. They are like started out like any other lemmings who blindly fol­
student, but through peer comparison and the power of the Yuppie-targeted media they adopted the attitudes and values of the Yuppies. 
Like the Yuppies, the Yippies of the 60s came from centers of intellectualism. They, too, were influenced by their peers and by the mores ofsociety, although the media at that time weren't predominantly directed at their age group. The American media have put new faith in youth and vitality. Young people are no longer ignored as a secondary market, but rather are concen­trated upon. 
When did Yuppies come into existence? 
There is no definitive date for the birth ofYuppie-ism. Yuppies have infiltrated American society discreetly. The advertising and entertainment industries have only gradually adopted the younger audience as their pri· mary target. 
But if the change was to be attributed to one event it would have to be the release ofthe film, "The Big Chill." 

low the group as it plunges to its collective death into an uncaring sea. 
lbesc same people made up the core of the Yippie movement. Cocaine and Brooks Brothers may have replaced LSD and ponchos, but these kind ofpeople are the same. 
These arc people who arc willing to put limitations on their perspectives. They feel the only way to succeed socially, psychologically and (most impor­tantly to the Yuppies) financially is to accept the ethics and ambitions given to them by their peers and by the American media. 
History, it is said, repeats itself. And there will always be followers and leaders. But young people like the Yuppies will always be dumb. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board 

PIZZA HUT SPECIAL DELIVERY!I HERE NOW!I Join America's Leading Pizza Chain 
We have full and part-time positions available for: Delivery Drivers 
Drivers must be 18 with a valid driver's license, proofofinsurance and reliable transportation. You can make between $3.35 and $8.00 an hour in wages, tips and commission. 
138lf2 Oixieway North, Roseland
277-2662
APPLY: 2406 Schumacher, Mish. 315 Lincolnway West, Mish. 
Between 2 p.m and 8 p.m. 
3608 W. Western, So. Bend 
The Observer Wednesday, AprillO, 1985-page 3 
Classes 
continued from page 1 
tian era." according to the curricu­lum committee's fin.al report. 
The second course focuses on "a single doctrinal theme, or cluster of themes in order to see how the total corpus of Christian thought and life fits together." 
The theology change did not have to be voted on by the Academic Council because it involved only a departmental change in course con· tent rather than a change in the ac· tual structure and timing oftheology courses. 
The University Curriculum Com· mittee, however, did ~equire the de· partment of theology (as well as the department of philosophy) to review content ofthe two·course re·· quirement. 
The philosophy changes, however, must be approved by the council because they give students a shorter time to fult111 the philosophy requirement. 
At the suggestion of the curricu­

lum committee, the philosophy de­
partment began to discuss changing 
the philosophy requirement two 
years ago. 
"There was a general perception that our (philosophy) students weren't coming out with the skills and basic understanding of prob· Iems and major figures in the history of philosophy that we wanted them to have as the result of a first year introductory course," said Michael Loux, dean ofthe College ofArts and Letters and former chairman of the philosophy department. 
Traditionally, philosophy profes· sors "can't get all six philosophical problems covered in one semester. Therefore, they just choose three of them," Professor Cornelius Delaney explained. 
"The advantages people saw (to the proposed requirement) were that we could do a better job in what we're doing in the first semester course if spread over two semesters," added David Solomon, an associate professor ofphilosophy. 
The proposed changes, nev~rthe­
less, have met with some opposition 
both from people within and outside 
ofthe philosophy department. 

The changes are "not something 
the philosophy department feels 
deeply about. We saw the positive 
side and the negative side," Delaney 
said. 

Some professors fear that a year­long introductory course will cause students to lose interest in philoso­phy. 
"I just fear that it isn't going to be as interesting," said Father David Burrell, a philosophy professor. "Philosophy's had a pretty good reputation among students, and we have to be at least aware that we may be jeopardizing that. Part of the role of the (current) second course is to show that philosophy can apply to other areas." 
Loux said the proposed change 
will not cause students to become 
uninterested in philosophy. 
"There's been a tradition ofstudents 
taking more than the requirement in 
philosophy. I think they will con· 
tinue to do that, but they will have a 
much broader base so that they can 
make reasoned choices as to the phi­
losophy courses that suit their inter­
ests," he said. 

Steve Horst, a former teaching 
assistant for the introductory philos-
An event you won't want to miss. As part of this campus community, your participat­ing Ford dealer will talk with you about the special values available on Ford's 1985 
(;(h')PQNSOR

S,.UDEN,. 
a 
Cl 
I \ 
......,Ft.lltC 

ophy course, expressed disapproval of the apparent goals of the intro­ductory course, saying that the first course in philosophy should teach students to evaluate arguments and help them see philosophical issues in everyday life. 
Often, the introductory course is taught "as though students need to learn what it is philosophers do," he said. "Now that seems to me a funda­mentally wrong-headed way of teaching philosophy. It's not some­thing students are going to be inter­ested in; it's not likely to prove valuable to most of them, and unless they are first able to see that these issues are important to them, the philosophical discussions they read will be wholly unintelligible," Horst said. 
The proposed change also may in­terfere with the timing of the Infor­mal Logic requirement in the College of Business Administration. Business students currently must take Informal Logic during their sophomore year. Associate Dean of Business, Yusaku Furuhashi, said the college is aware of the problem but is waiting to see whether the changes are approved by the Aca­demic Council before taking any ac­tion. 
The College of Science believes the new format will upset the "essential consecutive nature" of several science courses required by its curriculum, according to the minutes of the February 4 Academic Council meeting. Potential prob­lems also may arise for ROTC stu­dents and students who change majors. 
The theology changes, similar to the proposed philosophy changes. arose because students seemed to 
model cars and trucks. GET OFF TO A GREAT START WITH FORD ON THE DATE(S) LISTED BELOW! 

7HURSDAY, APRIL 187H FRIDAY, APRIL 197H
AC,.IYI,.IES

BOARD 
lack basic knowledge of the history and doctrine of the Catholic faith. 
"What I found when teaching the introductory theology course was that the background of the students was very uneven," said Ellen Weaver, assistant chairman of the theology department. "I found a great number of students whose background was poor, particularly in Church history. They also had a lot of misinformation, which is harder to cope with than no infor­mation at all." A quiz given to freshmen in an introductory theol­ogy course showed that II out of32 students had had no academic in­
struction in religion at all. Twenty­four students did not know who Augustine was, and some students said Mark, Peter, and Revelations were books of the Old Testament. 
In May 1983, the theology depart­ment formed an ad hoc committee, chaired by Weaver, to review the content of the two-course theology requirement. The committee was made up of faculty who had taught the Introduction to Theology 
course. 
The committee submitted a pro­posal far curriculum change to the­ology faculty on Nov. 14, 1983. 
In the preamble to this proposal, the committee stated, "The students now attending Notre Dame have only known a Church in change. They were born as Vatican II began. ... The students need to learn not only theological method but con­tent, not only an adult critical ap­proach to thinking about their faith, but something of the content and history of their faith. To meet the needs ofthese students, over 90 per­
cent of whom are Roman Catholic, the Committee proposes two courses which together would com­prise an exposition of the Christian tradition with special attention to Roman Catholicism." 
After reading the proposal. the theology department voted to re­quire students to take one course that dealt with the study ofScripture and the development of Christian doctrine and a second course that concentrated on one or more doctrinal themes in the Christian tradition. 
Originally, before this proposal 

passed, most students fulfilled the 
theology requirements by taking an 
introductory theology course and a 
second theology course of their 
choice. 
According to Weaver, the prob­lem with this was, "A student could conceivably come in (to Notre Dame) with very little knowledge of their faith and take, say, Archaeology of Israel and Zen Buddhism and graduate. This would be unfair to students and the parents who sent them here." 
Ralph Smith, former assistant to Theology Chairman Father Richard McBrien, agreed with the changes. "It's important to the University that theology can only be done from within a certain tradition," said Smith, a Lutheran. "It's legitimate for this place to use Roman Catholic his­tory and theology as a framework for students' individual reflections." 
Weaver said non-Christian stu­

dents would not necessarily have to 
take two courses in Christian theol­
ogy. 


Hooks 
continuedfrom page 1 

Benjamin Hooks 

sion have tried to obscure the existing inequalities." Hooks is a former chairman ofthe Federal Communications Commis­
sion and an ordained Baptist Mini­ster. He practiced law in his hometown of Memphis, Tenn., after receiving his degree from DePaul University. In Memphis, he served as an assistant public defender and as the first black judge in the criminal court. 
Since becoming director of the NAACP in 1977, Hooks led the I979 prayer vigil in Washington to help defeat the Motti anti-busing amemd­ment in Congress, and testified before the House Subcommittee on Africa opposing the lifting of sanc­tions against Rhodesia (now Zim­babwe). During his tenure, the NAACP has instituted a number of new programs designed to assist the poor and minorities in education, employment, voter registration, and youth programs. 
Hooks also serves on the boards of directors of the Public Broadcasting Service, the League of Women Voters, and many other colleges and organizations. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­
The Nation's Number One 
Child Health Problem. 





~ MO'feh of Dimes
'Jt' -lliiBIIlTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION-IIIIIIil 
Great beachea, cryatal-c:leu waten, iDcredt"ble pricea. 
OOH,BaHaMas!
~~~~b~ ' 
on Nassau/Paradise Island, CLASS OF 86 Freeport/Grand Bahama, and SENIOR TRIP
The Family Islands-The Abacus, Andros, Bimini, Eleuthera, and The Exumas. In The Bahamas, you never run out of things to do. 
Con be paid by MC. VISA 
Until you want to. DEPOSITS will be collected 419-4112 (Tues·Frl) LaFortune 6:3D-8:30pm Haggar 6:Q0-8:00pm 
ItsBetter1nTheHallmllill!i1 

The Observer 

DWI war continues 
ByJOHN HINES 
Copy liditor 
The war against drunk driving continues. 
The Commons, Senior Bar and the Shamrock Busint·ss Association an­nounced the ''I'm Driving Club" Thursday morning bc:fore break. 
The announcement was made during press conference at the Northeast Nc:ighborhood Services Centt·r on Notre Dame Avenue. 
"We care. We value your business and want you to have fun while you're here. But most ofall we want your drive home to be a safe one," reads tht· sign 10 be placed in the Commons and St·nior Bar 
Cathy David, student body vice president, coordinated the effort along with students Karen Nill and Brian Dedrick. 
At happy hours "soda is often more expensive than alcoholic drinks. 'Jbt· idea is not to penalize anyone if they choose not to drink," explained David. 
Customers of The Commons and Sc:nior Bar who sign up for a free membership receive a membership card and an "I care" club button. By presenting the membership card, the club member serving as host driver for their friends will receive free soft drinks. 
"The whole idea of the 'I'm 

Driving Clubs' is to provide a safe al­
ternative to drinking and driving," 
commented J. Larry Neff, president 
of the Shamrock Business Associa­
tion. 
"I don't think it will change people's perception of the bars. '!be goodwill value is incredible," said David. 
Sixty college communities in I 7 states are initiating such programs, including Marquette University, which brought the program to David's attention. 
"It was started in Wisconsin by restaurant owners who wanted to curb traffic fatalities," noted David. So far the program has been ex­tremely popular. "We ran out of cards the first night," commented John Bowie, manager ofSenior Bar. 
The Oh~crvcr/Paul Krarnt'r

Merry, uh, Easter 
Snow rests on a bush outside Howard Hall yes­snow (Jl!er the Easter weekend, u•hich continued terday, and unfortunately it rested on many ofus into the beginning ofthis u•eek. throughout the day. Much of the country received 

Howard elected HPC chairman; Chavez gets rector award 
By SCOTT BEARBY 
Assistant News Editor 
Former Keenan llall President Kevin Howard was elected to chair the Hall Presidents' Council for 19H'i-H6 at the nmncil banquet last night. 
tloward was elected by the hall representatives on the first ballot, receiving a majority of votes over former Lewis Hall Presidc:nt Debbie Doherty and past Alumni Hall Presi­dent Carl Whelahan. 
During his candidacy speech preceding dections, Howard pledged to narrow the focus of HPC and eliminate what he termed previ­ous "overextension". 



Included in his goals were a more interacting campus with more jointly-sponsored hall mixers and better student/faculty relations. Howard said he plans to emphasize a HPC role which will specifically seek to improve hall life and govern­ment and to leave campuswide con­continue the HPC lt:cture series which was implemented under im­mc:diate past chairman Chris Tayback's council. With the group of newly elected presidents, Howard hopes to also implement a HPC ser­vice project, similar to the recently completed raffle, which benefited the "Millions forMS" campaign. 
cerns  primarily for  the  senate  to  
address.  
However,  Howard doc:s plan  to  

Howard feel~ he is qualified to serve as HPC chairman for the corn­ing year due to his previous experi­ence in student government. In addition to being a former hall presi­dent, Howard served as a member of 
the student senate and the govern­
ment restructuring committee. 
Bc:fore being retired as HPC Chairman, Tayback announced the recipit-nr of the "Rector of the Year'' award. Sister )oris Binder, first year rector of Pasquerilla East, was named for her outstanding ac­complishments during the year. 
The award is designed to recog· nize the rector who serves as an example for all other rectors. 
According to past Pasquerilla East President joanne Chavez, Sister )oris instituted an "open door policy" im­mediately upon coming to the hall, 
FC 39527 NA
SANTA
PHILIP BAILEY 
BEYOND
CHINESE WALL 
APPEARANCES
Pho Including: 

including/Written In sand
Easy lover tggenlc Memory 
Say It Again/HOW LongOut 
I Go Crazy!WafkiuetOwlth Phil Collins') . Children"31 T~ The Chinese Wall App.••• counu., 01 ..,,.,,,; Ghetto Corp 
Wednesday, April 1 0, 1 985 -page 4 
FM 39244 
Also available 
helped to form senior reflection groups, and raised hall spirit by in­stituting a senior weekend and by dressing as Santa Claus for the Pasquerilla East Christmas part}'. 
Carroll Hall Rector Father Step­hen Gibson and Pasquerilla West Rector Dolores Ward received honorable mentions. 
Tayback also announced to the group that University ofNotre Dame President Father Theodore Hes­burgh is st·heduled to speak on the role of leadership in avoiding nu­clear war at 7:00 PM in the Library Auditorium. 

on cassette. FE 39528 
FR 39581
ANDREAS 
SADE 
iS II \11-11\\ I

VOLLENWEIDER 
I)L\~10:\ I) LJJ-'1·:
WHITE WINDS 

including: Smooth Operator/Your Love Is King Hang On To Your Love . When Am I Going To Make A Uvmg P1e 
FM 39963 Also available on chrome cassette. 

LOS LOBO$ 
How Will The W~!f Surv1ve? 
lODAY'S HITS 



, HAMMESNOTREDAMEBOOKSlORE 
t 
-
------~------~--------------------------------~--------------­
The Obsetver Wednesday, AprillO, 1985-page 5 
NoiD.inations being accepted for four Notre Daine awards 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
StaffReporter 
Every year, mtmerous people in the Notre Dame community donate their time and ef'orts for the better­ment of Notre )arne and its aca­demic and social atmosphere. 
Most of these people go about their business Jf helping others without seekir g or obtaining recognition for their service to the community. 
Each year, lwwever, a select group of th1~se people are recognized forth eir year long efforts with four awardl. These awards are presented to the recipient at gradua­tion, and are conferred upon those who meet the sp rit of the award ac­cording to a selection committee formed to sift through nominations. 
The awards are: the Faculty Award; the Feinhold Niebuhr Award; the Grertville Clark Award; and the Pop Farl<y Award. 
Nominations for these awards will be accepted unt I Friday by the Of-
flee of Student Affairs. Nominations 
should be written and include ap­
propriate reasons for the award and 
sufficient background material or 
documentation to support the can­
didate. 

The Faculty Award, the oldest of 
the group, was established in the 
1927-28 academic year. In that year, 
the Alumni established this award in 
order to publicly recognize the fac­
ulty member who "contributed out­
standing service to the Univeristy of 
Notre Dame." 
Prior winners of the award in­
clude faculty members from each of 
the colleges and the Notre Dame 
Law School. 
Last year's Faculty Award was given to Professor John Malone of the College of Business Administra­tion. 
This year's award will be awarded to the faculty member who best meets the spirit of the award after being recommended to a selection committee composed of prior award winners and other faculty members. Recommendations to the committee can be made by former winners of this award, deans, or by individual faculty members. 
The Reinhold Niebuhr Award was established in the I972-73 school year by Father Theodore Hesburgh and the University. Reinhold Niebuhr was a Protestant theologian and author who concentrated his lifelong studies in the area of social justice and modern life. 
In September of 1972, Father Hes­burgh received a Reinhold Niebuhr award from friends of Niebuhr at a ceremony in New York City at the Union Theological Seminary. His ini­tial award of $5,000 was turned over to the Notre Dame endowment to underwrite the current award of $250 presented on the Notre Dame campus. 
This award is presented annually to the student, faculty member, or administrator whose life and writings promote or exemplify the concerns of Niebuhr. All members of the Notre Dame community are allowed to reccommend people for this award. Recommendations are reviewed by a selection committee composed of representatives from each ofthe colleges, the Law School, Campus Ministry, the rectors, Ladies of Notre Dame, and the student body. 
Last year, John Houck and Father Oliver Williams, both of whom are professors of Management in the College of Business, were the recipients of this award. 
The Grenville Clark Award was es­
-tablished in the 1978-79 academic year in a similar way that the Niebuhr Award was established. On October 20, 1978, Father Hesburgh was one of three to win a Grenville Clark Prize of $5,000 given by the Grenville Clark fund at Darthmoth College. Father Hesburgh donated this award to the Notre Dame endow­ment in order to establish a $250 award given annually on the Notre Dame campus. The award is given to the student, faculty member, or ad­
ministrator "whose voluntary activi­ties serve to advance the cause of peace and human rights to which Grenville Clark devoted his ex­traordinary life ofpublic service." 
A selection committee similar in composition to that of the Niebuhr Award will field recommendations for this award from any member of the Notre Dame community. 
This honor last year was awarded to the Notre Dame Legal Aid and Defender Association. 
The Pop Farley A ward was estab­lished in September of 1976 by Fa­ther Hesburgh in order to "honor the person who has distinguished himself or herself outside the class­room in matters pertaining to the re­ligious, disciplinary, social, recreational, and physical welfare phases in the life of the students of the University ofNotre Dame." 
This award is given in honor ofFa­ther john (Pop) Farley, former rec­tor of Sorin Hall. The citation and stipend are awarded annually. 


Corb:y's forced to close, can reopen when license is sold 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
After losing an appeal in court, Inc.( Corby's parent corporation). 
StaffReporter 
Corby's "Voluntarily gave the per­Joseph Quill, an attorney for CTI, mit back" said Ron Tucker, adminis­said "Corby's was going to have to Corby's Tavem, which handed trative assistant to the ABC. He said be sold any way," because of the over its liquor lilense to the Indiana no one has yet filed an application death of CTI's major stockholder 
Alcoholic Beven ge Commission on 
for purchase. Harold Rowley. Rowley was found April 3 and wa> forced to close, 
The bar cannot reopen until the murdered in his home on August .1, remains shut down while the 
liquor license is resold. The license 1984. owners wait for someone to pur­cannot be sold to any one with an Tucker said Corby's will shut chase the license 
interest or affiliation with CTI down temporarily and eventually 

An event you won't want w· miss. As Jart of this campus commun ty, your participat­ing Ford jealer will talk with you abou: the special values available Jn Ford's 1985 
a)-SPONSOR 


;S,.UDEM,. 

,.HURSDAY, APRIL IB,.H FRIDAY, APRIL 19,.H
,.~C,.IYI,.IES 


BOARD 

"reopen under the appropriate cir­Quill said it is "Mandatory not to 
cumstances." He said a former Notre take chances," because of an or­
Dame football player was looking dinance which does not allow any 
into purchasing the license. new liquor licenses to be issued in 
Wally jessup, owner of Lee's Liq­the area. 
uor, said Corby's got what it had On September 14 1984, after an 
coming. administrative hearing, Corby's 
"They had a number of violations license was revoked. The hearing 
and were warned repeatedly over was held to look into the incidences 
the years. The Beverage Commis­of March 5 and May 4 of 1984 in 
sion pounds it into the owners' which the bar was raided and several 
heads that if you sell to a minor underage people were arrested. 
you're going to get caught and shut The bar remained open while this 
down," Jessup said. decision was appealed. On February 
He said the Indiana Excise Police 8 of this· year, Corby's was again 
hold seminars to teach bar operators raided and 51 people, most of them 
how to spot fake J.D.'s. "The local Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­
ABC has been rather lenient on dents, were arrested. 
Corby's," Jessup added. en paid a $500 fine for the 1984 
Both Jessup and Quill said bar violations and another $500 for the 
owners in the area must be espe­February 8 incident. By agreeing to 
cially careful. Jessup said that since hand over their license to the Bever­
there are so many bars concentrated age Commission, Corby's will be 
in a small area, the Excise Police able to profit from the sale of the 
look very hard for violations. license. 
SMC commissioners chosen 
By KAREN BRADY astic about making next year a good News Staff one," said Harmon. "The new commissioners are 
The Saint Mary's College Commis­quite young, so we will have an ac­sioners for the 1985-86 school year tive group with plenty of fresh were recently chosen by the student ideas," said Kollman. government board consisting ofStu­Judicial Commissioner Margaret dent Body President Ann Marie Kol­Calacci said the parking ticket situa­lman, Vice President for Student tion at Saint Mary's will most likely Affairs Jeanne Heller and Vice Presi­be a main issue for next year. dent for Academic Affairs Julie Har­Other appointments include mon. Traditional Events Commissioner, 
Nearly 57 applications were Susan O'Dell; Public Relations Com­submitted with 15 positions missioner, Lori Lohmann; Election available, and Harmon said that stu­Commissioner, Mary Lally; Publicity dents in the recent past haven't Commissioner, Kim McNamara; really displayed such a great inter­Christian Life Commisioner, Cathe est. Dahle; Entertainment Commis­
"We were all very excited about sioner, Trudee Lansfield; Calendar 
the 57 interviews because it showed Commissioner, Ann Ruth and Ath­
us that many students were enthusi-letic Commossioner,Janine Adams. 

Special Rates~
Su1nmer 





STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683-1959 

•VERY 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
ll!2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
l 1 

model cars and trucks. GET OFF TO A GREAT START WITH FORD ON THE DATE(S) LISTED BELOW! 

The Observer Wednesday, AprillO, 1985-page 6 

Campus Network offers programs 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
StaffReporter 
Campus Network. a satellite com­

munications company, is offering a 
variety of entertainment and in­
formational programs to more than 
eighty-five colleges and universities 
across the country, according to 
Peter Church, Campus Network's 
national affiliate sales manager. 
Begun only 18 months ago, 

Campus Network is carried by each 
school's closed-circuit television 
systems. When a school subscribes 
to this service, Campus Network in­
stalls free of charge all of the equip­
ment necessary to begin 
broadcasting. 
Once the satellite dish and televi­

sion system have been installed, the 
participating school is given free use 
of all of tht.· equipment for a wide 
range ofprograms. One such service 
is the National College Television 
Network on which is shown rock 
videos, concerts. and related enter­
tainment programs, said Church. 
Also carried on the Television 

Network is Business Week maga­
zine's guide to careers which 
supplies business information to stu­
dents. A third type ofprogram is one 
which is devoted entirely to adult 
cartoons, especially those like 'Betty 
Boop' and others from the 1930's 
and 1940's. 
In return for the usc of the equip­

ment, the subscribing schools agree 
to broadcast ten minutes of com­
mercials per hour, eight minutes of 
which are devoted to those adver­
tisers chosen by Campus Network. 
The remaining two minutes per 
hour are to be used by local adver­
tisers who pay the respective school 
in return for the airtime. Thus the 
system allows the schools to earn 
some money in the process, Church 
added. 
Spermicides found safe for unborn 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Spermicides 

used at the time ofconception in un­
successful attempts at birth control 
do not appear to cause birth defects 
in fetuses exposed to the substances, 
a federal health center said yester­
day. 
Studies involving some 34,600 

pregnant women showed no 
evidence that spcrmicides pre­
sented a hazard to the fetus ncar the 
time ofconception, a researcher for 
the National Institute of Child 
Health and Human Development 
said. 
"'Ibcrc isn't any evidence that spcrmicidcs cause either malforma­tions or any other adverse effects to the fetus," said Dr. James Mills. "These findings should reinforce the fact that spcrmicidcs arc a safe means ofcontraception." 
lbc study was addressed at fears among some women that spcr­micides -chemical agents in jelly, cream or foam that prevent preg­nancy by damaging the sperm -may also damage a fetus if conception oc­curs. That could mean giving birth to a child with birth defects. 
About 10 percent of U.S. women usc spcrmicidcs for birth control, the agency said. The substances can be used alone, but arc most effective if used with some sort of barrier device, such as a diaphragm or cervi­cal cap. 
"Spcrmicidcs used alone, without a barrier device to prevent sperm from reaching the egg, are not the most effective means of contracep­tion," Mills noted. 
Overall, scientists said, about 1 5 percent of the women using spcr­mlcides become pregnant. 
Church went on to say the system 

costs "peanuts" compared to what 
such a system would cost ifdone in­
dependently. 
"Our equipment is strictly state of 

the art," he said. "We now have a 
giant TV picture. In the near future 
we will be using a high-definiton TV 
the quality of which is equal to 
3Smm film. 
"Basically we are doing the same 

things as what ABC and NBC do ex­
cept our affiliates are on campuses. 
One thing that is very positive is the 
fact that student-produced shows 
can be used and shown. The schools 
are allotted twenty hours per month 
which is theirs to use as long as no 
admission is charged for the 
showing of these events," Church 
said. 
To qualify for the system, each 

school must have at least 7,000 stu­
dents and an appropriate location 
for a television which can be seen by 
a large number ofpeople. 
In order to have the system hooked up to several locations such as individual dorms, additional an­tennae must be positioned and extra cable is required. However, most schools currently involved have their televisions in student centers or bars. 
Mary Anne O'Donnell, director of student activities at St. Mary's, said she is "only familiar with Campus Network through conferences and reading material. I have some of their reading material since I am on their mailing list but since we haven't really looked into it I don't wish to comment on it." 
O'Donnell added that "ifwe were to subscribe our central location would probably be Haggar Student Center." 
Joni Neal, director of student ac­tivities at Notre Dame, could not be reached for comment. 
Schools which receive Campus Network's services include St. John's, M.I.T., Ohio State, the Univer­sity of Texas, and California Poly­Tech. 
SENIOR MONTH REGISTRATION 
April10-12, 5-7pm Where: Ombud desk main floor LaFortune or in the LeMans Lobby 
Advance ticket sales available for: 
Rush Street Trip • Great America Trip • Weddingless Reception Golf Tourney Tivoli's Party SMCLuau 

OC Seniors may also pick up booklets. 
•Must purchase tickets at Registration only 
... 
Beaux Arts Ball 
Chris Munro tries to convince people to "Paint Friday's Beaux Arts Ball in the South Dining Hall. the Town Red" yesterday, as he sells tickets to this Tickets u•ill be at,ailablefor the rest ofthe week. 

Cambridge bids to be sanctuary 
Associated Press 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass-A city resolu­tion declaring Cambridge a haven for Central American refugees could ·help influence U.S. policy, a sanctu­ary movement leader said yesterday. But federal immigration officials said the move won't change the way they 
handle illegal aliens. 
On Monday, the Cambridge City 
Council voted S to 4 to declare the 
city a sanctuary for refugees from 
Haiti, Guatemala and El Salvador 
who say they face persecution and 
torture if forced to return. 
'!be vote followed similar actions 
in Berkeley, Calif., St. Paul, Minn., 
and Chicago. About 200 churches 
and synagogues nationwide have 
also opened their doors to illegal im­
migrants from Central America. 
"lbere's no place in the United States -Cambridge or elsewhere­where refugees from Central America are going to be safe," said Lee Holstein, of the Chicago Religi­ous Task Force on Central America. 
"But the more public sentiment and the more public actions there arc, the more likely the United States will change the way it is behaving." 
The Cambridge resolution directs city agencies and employees not to cooperate with federal efforts to round up and deport the estimated 5,000 immigrants from Central America and Haiti who have fled to this university city. 
Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Ser­vice in Washington, said the resolu­tion will have only a marginal impact on his agency because local officials have no power to enforce immigra­tion laws. 
"In many cities, law enforcement agencies cooperate with INS by identifying illegal aliens to us. I assume that Cambridge wouldn't be cooperating in that manner," he said. 
Those involved in the sanctuary movement said the resolution will be a success if even one undocu-

By Earning College Credits In 
SUMMER SESSION 
This summer, you can earn college credits while you're getting a tan. Saint Xavier College offers more than 100 courses in 27 fields of study, including art, business, computer science, criminal justice, education, English, history, mass communications, physical sciences, psychology, sociology and more. 
For a brochure, call (312) 779-3300 or send coupon today. 
~Saint Xavier College
["D

3700 West 103rd St., Chicago,IL 60655 
Please send me a Summer Session brochure: 
Name ----------------------­
Address -------------------­
City___________ State___ Zip,____ 
Send to Summer Session Director. Saint Xavier College. 3700 West 103rd St .. Chicago. IL 60655 
• 
mcntcd alien escapes the federal net. 
"We know for a fact there are a 
couple of young Salvadorans right 
now in detention center because 
they were stopped for a traffic viola­
tion in Somerville," said James 
Wallace, a member of the sanctuary 
committee of the Old Cambridge 
Baptist Church. 
"lbis is really to say, 'That shouldn't happen here.' 'l11at's not what we're paying our police for," he said. 
More than SOO,OOO Central Americans are believed to be living illegally in the United States, accor­ding to Austin. Last year, 19,000 Sal­vadorans alone were apprehended for entering the country illegally, he said. 
Sanctuary movement activists contend the Reagan administration has deported many Central Americans while extending protec­tion to those fleeing communist countries. 


It's nevertoo late to become a bronze God orGoddess! Deepen that Spring Break tan. CaD us at 277-7026 'MN-HAWA1&N J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka  


The Observer Wednesday, AprillO, 1985-page 7 

Salmonella outbreak causes tnilk recall, plant closing 
Assodated Press 
CHICAGO, Ill. -A grocery chain whose low-fat milk was blamed for a salmonella outl: reak that sickened more than 2,000 people in five states took all the milk off its shelves Tues­day and closed a plant linked to a possible second wave of the poison­ing. 
"All milk ha; been withdrawn from sale in all Jewel Food Stores, pending the de termination of the presence of salmonella by the Illi­nois Department of Public Health," said Jewel Co>. spokesman Bill Newby. 
The dairy was shut down Monday night, Newby said, and the 217 su­permarkets operated by Jewel and its affiliates "will stock milk from other sources" until it is cleared. The stores normally stock only Jewel milk brands -Hillfarm and Bluebrook. 
The grocery stores are located in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Iowa. Salmonella poisoning cases have been reported in those four states plus Wisconsin. 
The closing of the Hillfarm dairy in suburban Melrose Park came shortly after medical officials re­ported the death of a 61-vear-old woman who had been hospitalized with salmonella poisoning. 
It also followed reports that a second batch of 2 percent fat­content milk was suspected in new 
cases  of  salmonella  poisoning,  
Newby said.  
State  health  officials  last  week  

started investigating 2 percent milk dated March 29 and marketed under the Bluebrook brand, suspected in the first wave ofillness. 
The investigation was expanded Monday to include 2 percent Hil­lfarm milk dated April 8 after patients in an apparent second wave 
·of cases reported drinkintz it. 

SeJrvicemlen's bodies identified 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-An Army labo­ratory has ider ,tified the remains of six American servicemen killed during the Vietnam War, the Pent­agon announc ~d yesterday. 
The identif cations were made over the past nonth at the Army's Central Ident Jication Laboratory in Honolulu, 1-lawaii, following the return of the remains to U.S. offi­cials in Hanoi, said spokesman Mi­chael Burch. 
The Vietna~nese had said they were returnin ~ the remains of five individuals thought to be Ameri­can servicerr en, but extensive tests at the lal, produced six posi­tive identifica1 ions, Burch said. 
Four of the six men identified -Air Force Maj. Chambliss Ches­were Air Force officers who were nutt, of Little Rock, Ark., reported shot down in their aircraft over lost over North Vietnam on Sept. North Vietnam and subsequently 30,1965. listed as missing in action. The 
others _ an Army officer and a -Air Force Capt. Michael Chwan, Marine Corps officer_ were listed of Bayonne, N.J., reported lost over as prisoners of war who were North Vietnam Sept. 30, 1965. 
known to have died after being -Army Sgt. Gerasimo Arroyo-captured, the Pentagon said. Baez, of Maunabo, Puerto Rico, re-The Pentagon identified the ported as having been captured in men as: South Vietnam on March 24, 1969, 
-Air Force Col. Melvin Killian, of . and subsequently dying in cap­Council Bluffs, Iowa, reported lost tivity. over North Vietnam on Sept. 30, 1965. -Marine Sgt. Robert Sherman, of 
-Air Force Maj. Cleveland Harris, Danville, Ill., reported as having of Birmingham, Ala., reported lost been captured in South Vietnam over North Vietnam on Feb. 29, on June 24, 1967, and subse­1968. quently dying in captivity. 

a 

Cl 
An ev,:nt you won't want to miss..\s part of this campus community, your participat·· ing Fe rd dealer will talk with you about the special values available on Ford's 1985 
CO-SPONSOR 
S,.UDEN,.
AC,.IYI•riES
BOARD 

model cars and trucks. GET 
OFF TO A GREAT START 
WITH FORD ON THE 
DATE(S) LISTED 
BELOW! 

,.HURSDAY, APRIL 18,.H FRIDAY, APRIL 19,.H 
Seven people with symptoms of salmonella poisoning were admitted Monday to Good Samaritan Hospital in suburban Downers Grove. Three said they drank Hillfarm 2 percent milk, nursing supervisor Roberta Butler said Tuesday. 
Patricia Larsen, assistant director of the Illinois Public Health Depart­ment, said state laboratories were testing suspect Hillfarm milk in one­gallon plastic jugs and half-gallon cardboard cartons. 
Department spokesman Chet June said in Springfield investigators would look into the most recent cases in an effort to pin down their source. 
Meanwhile, the Cook County medical examiner's office was inves­tigating the death Monday of Mary Kierzek of Alsip at St. Francis Hospi­tal in suburban Blue Island. 
Ms. Kierzek, admitted to the hospital April 2, was being treated for salmonella poisoning and had consumed some of the Bluebrook milk, said nursing supervisor Mary Alice Ryan. 
"Her condition just deteriorated," Ms. Ryansaid. 
Soviets testing better version of missile aimed at Europe 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Although the Soviets are testing an improved ver­sion of the SS-20 nuclear missile pointed at Western Europe, it remains unclear how soon they might start deploying it, a Pentagon spokesman said yesterday. 
"We simplydon't know what their intentions are," said spokesman Mi­chael I. Burch. "We have watched them keep up with their building program, where they're building more and more (launch) sites. Now whether they put more SS-20s in those, or put 24s (SS-X-24 missiles) or this new 25 (SS-X-25 missile) in them ... we simply don't know at this point." 
The SS-X-25 and the SS-X-24 are two new intercontinental ballistic missiles that the Pentagon has said the Soviets will deploy this year and next, respectively. 
Burch was asked about the Soviet missiles following a report in The Washington Post quoting private and government sources as saying the Soviet Union's announcement Sunday of a moratorium on SS-20 deployments might be a hollow gesture because Moscow was busy preparing a new version of the missile. 
Burch, at a news briefing, declined to comment on that aspect ofthe report. But he said the Reagan administration has already made clear it places little stock in the moratorium and there is no way of knowing whether the Soviets had planned a slowdown in deploy­ments while awaiting the improved missile. 
"What all have noted is that the Soviets offered a freeze before (in 1982 ), and during the period of their self-imposed freeze they con­tinued to deploy missiles," Burch said. "The other thing is even if they would freeze right now, it »till gives them a 9-or 1 0-to-1 advantage in the total number of warheads facing NATO forces. 
"You have to weigh ·their freeze offer very carefully." 
The question of SS-20 deploy­ments is ofcrucial importance to the United States and its allies within NATO because the three-warhead SS-20 is the most modern intermediate-range missile in the So­viet arsenal. 
According to the Pentagon, the Soviets have so far deployed 414 of the missiles, at least two-thirds of which are aimed at Western Europe. 
It was because of the build-up of the SS-20 force since 1977 that NATO agreed to deploy 5 72 U.S. Cruise and Pershing 2 missiles in Europe. More than 130 of those U.S. missiles have been deployed to date. 
The fact that the Soviets were test­ing an improved version ofthe SS-20 was disclosed on April 2, when the Pentagon released its latest assess­ment ofSoviet military power. 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWRENTING FOR FALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Session) Office at 820 ND Ave 
or callopen Mon-Fri 3-6pm 

234-6647
Sat 11-3pm 
,
,
, , 
.,
, 

Happy 8-Day, 
E.A. Awesome! 
Yes, this is Liz Lawson. She's had a rough time making it to the twenty year mark. Could you please help her celebrate? Stop by 423 Lyons or ca112761. 

The Observer Wednesday, April 10, 1985 -page 8 
Bankrupt dealer's assets frozen 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J.-A judge froze the assets of three affiliates of a failed government securities dealer yes­terday a day after it was placed un­der bankruptcy-law protection from customers who are owed at least 5140 million. 
Savings and loan associations across the country tried to assess the impact of the Chapter I I filing by Bevill Bresler & Schulman Asset Management Corp. of Livingston. But the Federal Reserve Board in Washington said no problems had been reported at financial institu­tions in the wake of the filing and related court action. 
lbe Securities and Exchange Commission has alleged that Asset Management, four affiliates and five officers misrepresented the financial status of Asset Management and failed to disclose it could not meet obligations to customers. Regulators estimated it owes at least SI40 mil­lion to customers. 
U.S. district judge Dickinson Debevoise had frozen the assets of Asset Management on Monday and did the same yesterday for BBS Gov­ernment Securities Group Inc., Bevill Bresler & Schulman Govern­ment Securities Inc. and BBS securi­ties Group Inc. 
The SEC on Tuesday did not ask that any action be taken against the fourth affiliate, the brokerage firm of Bevill Bresler & Schulman Inc. 
The SEC also asked the judge to take away the officers' control of three of the companies in order to protect customers. The judge named New York attorney Saul Cohen as a trustee for Asset Manage­ment and as receiver for two af­filiates -BBS government Securities Group Inc. and Bevill Bresler & Schulman Government Securities Inc. 
The filing by Asset Management comes in the wake of the failure ofa Florida government securities dealer that triggered a banking crisis in Ohio. 
Most of Asset Management's cus­tomers are small savings and loans and banks, but officials at several of the institutions said the loss would be minimal. 
john Moffatt, vice president at Fort Lee Savings & Loan in Fort Lee, N.J., which is owed I! I9.3 million, re­ported a "slight run" at his thrift yes­terday. 


Cold, snow cause probleiDs froiD Michigan to Florida 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Up to lO inches of snow fell in the central Appalac­hians yesterday and snowflakes clung to spring flowers in the na­tion's capital, while thermometers hit record lows for the date from Michigan to Florida. 
Freezing temperatures spread as far south a.~ Huntsville, AJa., which tied its record for the date of 32 degrees. 
At least three traffic deaths were blamed on the snow. 

Vote 
continuedfrom page 1 
give the job of restructuring to the new incoming senate." 
In a statement prepared after the committee's decision, Bertino said that he ha.~ "serious doubts regard­ing Mr. Healy's motives for appeal­ing the technicality. Bill was supportive of the CREST (Committee to Restructure Student Government) proposal throughout all the procedures these past months, yet he never voiced his dis­pleasures to me or anyone else." 
"Had he raised his uncertainties to the committee, they could have been resolved long ago, ill the same manner that other problems were
~ brought up and resolved. Especially 
r 
disheartening wa.~ the fact that Bill 
r 
was a member of the very CREST
r 
committee that drafted the pro­posal." 
Healy, whose statement regarding the committee's decision and "student government in general" will be issued April I'5, said Monday, "Student government constantly restructures itself every three years or so. lbe problem is not the structure but (student govern­ment's) role at Notre Dame." 
"llte new constitution is just like putting a band-aid on a wound, but we don't know how bad the wound is," added Healy. 
"Unfortunately I feel Bill is simply bowing to pressure put on him the last few days by a few individuals, and does not want to take a firm stand on an issue of this magnitude," said Bertino's statement. 
"In a matter of days he shifted his opinion I80 degrees. It's not always easy being in a position ofleadership such as student body president," Bertino's statement continued. "Sometimes you have to show some hackbone...and Bill didn't." 
While prospective candidates for this Friday's scheduled senatorial elections were meeting last night in the LaFortune Ballroom, one floor 
r 
above them the judicial Council 
r 
committee ruled unanimously that senate members acted unconstitu­
"' 
tionally when they extended their terms. 'Iberefore, student leaders elected more than a month ago
r 
should have assumed their positions
r 
r April I and another student senate election is unnecessary. 
f 
Ten inches ofsnow piled up in Pit­its extent of area," said National cording to the National Weather Ser­tsburgh's northern suburbs and the Weather Service forecaster Lou vice. AJlegheny Mountains east ofthe city. Giordano. 
Elsewhere, record lows for the
But by yesterday's morning rush Other parts of Pennsylvania got 
date included 43 at Apalachicola,
hour most roads were merely wet or little ifany snow, leaving roads wet. 
Fla.; 29 at Ashville, N.C.; 38 at jack­
slushy as the temperature hovered 
Up to 8 inches ot snow tell over sonville, Fla.; 23 at Knoxville, Tenn., 
around freezing. 
the mountains of northeastern West where the old record of 29 had
"We thought we might get some­

Virginia, forcing some counties to stood since 19I4; 35 at Meridian,
thing, but certainly not what we 
delay schools. Miss.; 28 at Paducah, Ky., and I4 at
got," said Bill Comeaux, a 
South Bend, Ind. Record-tying lows
meteorologist for the National Wea­The Sinks of Gandy region in 
were reported in Illinois, Michigan, 
ther Service in Pittsburgh. "If it had rugged Randolph County received 8 
AJabama and Indiana.

been a little warmer, we'd have had inches ofsnow, while 7 inches fell at thunderstorms.'' the nearby community of Dailey, at Two to 4 inches of snow fell "It was a small storm, not in the Terra AJta in Preston County and at across northern Ohio, making roads amount of snow it delivered but in Canaan Valley in Tucker County, ac-slippery and icing bridges. 
Two people were killed in sepa­rate traffic accidents in Ohio late Monday, and eight people were hurt in a 26-vehicle chain ofaccidents on snow-covered Interstate 480 in Summit County, said state trooper Mike Marchek ofAkron. 
The snow extended into lower Delaware and Maryland, where one fatality was blamed on icy roads as up to 6 inches of snow fell, and flurries dampened streets and con­trasted with spring flowers in Wash­ington, D.C. up to three-quarters of an inch accumulated on lawns around Washington. 


MOCKLSAT 
and 

Test-Taking Suggestions 
Sat. Aprll13, 9am-12:30pm Sign up by April10 outside room 101 O'Shag 
Sponsored by the Pre-Law Society 
The Healy Company is looking for bright, successful people interested in financial planning and life insurance sales. Do you qualify? If so, call the placement office today to schedule an interview for April 15th. 
Edward M.E. Healy, CLU General Agent, Minn. Mutual Life Insurance Co. 
'-----------------------------­
COWGE COm ARE GOING UR BUTSOISTHE ARMYCOLLEGE FUND. 

Tuition, books, lab fees, college living expenses--all seem to be climb­ing relentlessly. Well, here's some good news from the Army. Today' s Army College Fund is climbing too. You can now accumulate over $25,000 for college, if you qualify. 
What's more, you'll study, learn and become proficient in a useful skill. It could be a skill with so wide an application in both military and civil­ian life that it might help you decide what to take in college. 
If you're determined to go on to college, but you don't know where the money is coming from, pick up an Army College Fund booklet from your local recruiter. It offers several options you'll want to investigate. 
Stop by or call: 

SGT Brennan 234-4187 
ARMY. BEALLYOU CAN BE. 
The Observer Wednesday, AprillO, 1985-page 9 

Two anti-r, uclear protestors wearing President Reagan and Margaret Tht:< lecher face masks outside Molesworth Royal Air Force base on Monday. They were among over 20,000 demonstrator.; prostesting outside the base, now designated as Britain"s seamdcruisemissile base. The prostestor with theReagan 
mask holds a 'You ain't seen nothingyet"poster. 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -Japan announced a 
three-year plan Tuesday to open its 
markets to foreign products. Prime 
Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone urged 
his people to buy imported goods, 
saying a trade war would bring eco­
nomic disaSter upon them. 
No quick results were expected from the Japanese plan, and initial reaction from the United States was muted. Congress, frustrated by a S37 billion U.S. trade deficit with Japan in 1984, has demanded the United States retaliate ifJapan does not ease trade barriers. 
The Japanese also stressed the need to reduce the dollar's value against the yen, which contributes to the trade imbalance by making 
Japanese products cheaper to the consumer and U.S. goods more ex­pensive. 
Japan's three-year program deals with telecommunications, electronics and other major trade areas of most concern to the United States. 
Nakasone urged the Japanese, in a nationally televised speech and news conference after the program was announced, to "please buy foreign products." 
He said Japan must move rapidly toward freer trade because "terrible depression and unemployment" would result ifsuch trading partners as the United States took protec­tionist measures. Japan has few natu­ral resources and its economy is built on industrial exports. 
Japan had an overall trade surplus of $44.2 billion last year, $36.8 bil­lion of it with the United States. Congress has called for sanctions un­less Japan makes it easier for Ameri­can goods to enter its markets and redress the balance. 
The report on "external eco­nomic measures" issued Tuesday in­cludes the plan to open markets and says an outline of the program will be completed byJuly. 
In the package are pledges to ac­cept foreign clinical test data for medical equipment, eventually to lower tariffs on plywood products, to simplify technical standards for computer equipment and to ease the way for the purchase of Ameri­can communications satellites. 
It also promises greater freedom for foreign lawyers to practice in Japan, another U.S. demand; more 

'Xlhen you buy a Texas .] nstruments calculator you don't just buy a calculator, you l)uy Texas Instruments' com~ 
nitment to quality. 

It's a commitment backed )y a fully developed service .1etwork that includes the 1bove toll~ free number you can :all from anyplace in the United States. 
Ifyou have any applications, operations, or service questions, Ofcourse, theres just one call us Monday thru Friday catch. It has to be a Texas between 9 am and 4 pm CST, Instruments calculator. But and we'll be glad to help. then, if you're as smart as we 
If your calculator needs think you are, why wouldn't repairing, we'll direct you to it be? one ofour 46 conveniently located service centers for an immediate exchange. Under TEXAS.Jf warranty, it's free. If there's no 
INSTRUMENTS 
center near you, we'll do it all 
Creating useful products by mail. and services for you. 
Japan announces long-range plan to open markets to imported goods 
Japanese aid to developing nations, and attention to the interests of Southeast Asia and Europe in future tariff cuts. 
The United States sees telecom­munications, electronics, medical supplies and forestry products as areas in which American companies could compete successfully if they were kt into the market. 
The prime minister stressed the urgency of the trade issue with a candor that is rare in Japanese politicians. 
He called on "every one of our citizens to please buy foreign prod­ucts." He said that ifeach ofJapan's 120 million people bought $100 worth of foreign goods, the trade surplus could be cut by Sl2 billion. 
Nakasone, 66, used charts and graphs to illustrate his argument that Japan's tariffs are among the lowest in the world but that the Japanese people spend far less per person than Americans and Europeans on foreign manufactured goods. 
He praised President Reagan for defending free trade, and said it was his "intense desire that nothing hap­pen to injure the foundation of friendly U.S.-Japan relations." 
Reagan plea for peace refused 
Associated Press 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua -President Daniel Ortega has rejected Presi­dent Reagan's proposal for a cease­fire and peace negotiations, his office announced Monday. 
The Presidential Press Office said 
Ortega announced his decision 
during weekend talks with Colom­
bia's foreign mmtster, Augusto 
Ramirez Ocampo, whom he met in 
Havana. Ortega also met with Cuban 
President Fidel Castro. 
Reagan made the proposal last Wednesday in Washington. He coupled it with a warning that he would seek resumption of military aid to anti-Sandinista rebels if the leftist government did not agree to a settlement within 60 days after opening negotiations. 
During the meeting with Ramirez 
Ocampo, Ortega "expressed with 
absolute clarity he does not accept 
the ultimatum presented by Presi­
dent Reagan," the press office state­
ment said. 
It said Ortega urged a resumption 
of U.S.-Nicaraguan talks in Man­
zanillo, Mexico, which the United 
States broke off in January. 
French find , ,, 
,
.,

arms cache 
.,1 

Associated Press ., 
PARIS-French authorities found a 
cache of weapons and explosives 
that includes a pistol believed to 
have been used to kill an American 
military attache and an Israeli 
diplomat in Paris, police sources 
said Monday. 
lbey said the arms were found in 
an apartment in a working class dis­
trict of northern Paris and were 
linked to the Lebanese Revolution­
ary Armed Factions, a group 
suspected of attacks in Europe and 
kidnappings in Lebanon. 
'The sources, who spoke on condi­
tion of anonymity, said about 44 
pounds of explosives, two rocket 
launchers, submachine guns and 
several pistols were found in an 
apartment traced to Georges 
Ibrahim Abdallah, who is in prison in 
Lyon, France. 


~i~~~_()__l_._Jl__t__________________w_e_dn-es-da-y,_Ap-ril_l_o._19-85__p_ag_e_10 
ND needs to try harder to recruit black students 
lbe University of Notre Dame is perhaps the most well-known and respected univer­sity in the country. An exceedingly rich tradi­tion in academics as well as athletics has established Notre Dame as a renowned Catho­lic institution. The University is associated with honesty, equality and a commitment to social justice. Needless to say, it is the dream of nearly every high school senior to be ac­cepted into Notre Dame. Each year, thousands of applicants are turned away in their bids to attend the schooL Those who are accepted are of an elite sect, usually ranking at or near the top of their high sehoul class. It is hard to understand why a university ofsuch prestige and reputation as Notre Dame would 
Lester Flemons 
guest column 
encounter difficulty attracting any particular group of high school students. In the fall of 1984, however, the total black freshman class at Notre Dame consisted of a paltry 34 stu­dents, seven of which were scholarship ath­letes. The I984 class represents the lowest number of black freshman admitted to Notre Dame since 1976 when the number also regis­tered at 34. Notre Dame's total freshman class of 1984 consisted of 181 0 students which gives one an indication about the minuteness of a class of 34. The numbers become even more alarming when one considers that in 
1967, the total number of black freshman ad­mitted to Notre Dame was a mere five stu­dents below the number produced in 1984. Why does a nationally respected, world renown university such as Notre Dame have trouble recruiting black students? 
Many argue that the environment at Notre Dame is nut suited for blacks. A recent poll indicated that many blacks encounter difficul­ties coping with the predominantly white, Catholic environment at Notre Dame. "Blacks are under a tremendous amount ofpressure at Notre Dame," says Chris Williams, a 21 year­old junior who majors in psychology. "Not only is there pressure from academics, but there is also social pressure. Whites don't un­derstand black culture, and that makes it diffi­cult for blacks to relate to them." 
The difficulties encountered by Notre Dame in recruiting black students is reflected by many universities across the nation. Ap­proximately 80 percent of the I. I million black students now attending college are en­rolled at predominantly white universities. Black students attending these institutions share problems which, in some instances have been around for many years. Notre Dame, however, is near the bottom ofthe list as far as black enrollment is concerned. Of the total undergraduate enrollment at Notre Dame, only 2.7 percent are black. Other Catholic universities such as DePaul ( I 0. 5 percent), Dayton ( 5.2 percent), Xavier ( 4.9 percent) and even St. Joseph of Indiana ( 4.3 percent) arc leaving Notre Dame behind in the race for quality black students. Over the last I 5 years Notre Dame ha.' admitted an average of only 44 black students per year. During a I 5 year period, only two of Notre Dame's black fresh­man cla~'Ses exceeded 60 students. The high­est mark <:ame in 198.2 when the total number 
of black freshman registered at 73. 
Undoubtedly, there are many reasons for Notre Dame's inability to attract more black students. To place the blame on one particular department or person would be unfair. Accor­ding to Pat Leonardo, Assistant Director ofAd-
Doonesbury 
r r 
r 
, 
r 
r
,. 
r 
r 
r' 
~ 
r 
r 
~ 
missions at Notre Dame, the problems 
confronted by the University in recruiting 
black students are primarily due to external 
factors. "lbe nation's economy is one of the 
prime reasons for the lack of black students," 
states Leonardo. "When the economy goes 
down, applications for black students go 
down. These students don't feel that they have 
the finances to attend Notre Dame. Therefore, 
they don't even bother to apply." Leonardo 
also cited that the black perception of finan­
cial aid at Notre Dame is inaccurate. Ap­
parently, blacks feel that the financial package 
at Notre Dame will not help much in paying 
the enormous tuition bills. In many instances, 
however, the financial package at Notre Dame 
is more viable than students originally an­
ticipated. lberefore, it is essential that black 
students examine the financial package care­
fully before "writing off" the University. 
In addition to the inconsistency of the eco­
nomy, as well as the inaccurate perception of 
financial aid at Notre Dame, Leonardo cited 
inadequate guidance from high school coun­
selors, competition from other universities 
across the nation and the lack of an adequate 
tracking system to do follow-up recruiting. 
While these factors certainly have a strong ef­
fect on black enrollment at Notre Dame, one 
cannot help but question the University's han­
dling ofthe situation. 

Astudy ofthe history ofblack enrollment at Notre Dame revealed that the recruitment of blacks at the University is more consistent when the president of the University is im­minent in the black community. In the 1970­71 school year, when the Notre Dame football team played in the Cotton Bowl against the University of Texas, the president of the Uni­versity, Father Theodore Hesburgh, an­nounced on national television that much of the proceeds from the game would be di­rected towards financial aid for minority stu­dents. The following year, the University produced a black freshman class which more than doubled the numbers of the previous year. During this time, Father Hesburgh was chairman of the Civil Rights Commission un­der President Nixon. He diligently served on the commission for 1 5 years before he was dismissed by Nixon in 1972. Apparently, Hes­burgh and Nixon disagreed on a relevent issue. Nevertheless, he grew even more popular within the black community. As a result the University enjoyed a great deal of success in the recruitment of black students. When Hesburgh began to drift away from his involvement with civil rights, black enroll­ment at Notre Dame became less consistent, and at times, erratic. In the fall of 1972, the number ofblack freshman dropped to a disap­pointing 21. The previous year had registered a noteworthy 54. 
Hesburgh concedes that his involvement with black civil rights has not been as exten­sive over recent years. He assures, however that the black situation at Notre Dame always has been, and will continue to be a major con­cern among the University's adminsitrators. "My involvement with black civil rights has not decreased, but rather it has taken on a broader scale," stated Hesburgh. "Not only am I concerned with the rights ofblacks, but with the rights of all human beings around the world." Hcsburgh also stated that the nuclear dilemma has commanded much of his atten­tion in recent years. "lbe nuclear situation is one which affects all of us," cited Hesburgh. "If that situation is not properly addressed, there may be no more civil rights for any of 
us." 

The growing trend of black students to fa­vor black colleges has also become a factor for the lack of black students at predominantly white universities. The general perception among black students is that black colleges do a better job of motivating and preparing black students than integrated schools. The interac­tion ofstudents and faculty produces the mo­tivation for students to achieve. Often it is difficult for black students to develop mentor relationships with white professors. The prob­lem is evident at Notre Dame where the num­ber of black faculty is extremely limited. "It would help a great deal in the recruitment of black students if we had more black faculty members," stated Ed Blackwell, Head ofBlack Studies at Notre Dame. "It is very important that blacks be able to identify with their pro­fessors." All told, there is a grand total of 27 black faculty members at Notre Dame. Only 
II of the 27 are actually professors. Two are athletic coaches, and the remainder consists of directors and assistant directors of various departments at the University. 
Although the lack ofblack faculty members should definitely be included in our list of reasons, some feel that the bulk of the prob­lem actually exists within the black commu­nity at Notre Dame. Blacks are generally not satisfied with their overall situation at Notre Dame. Therefore, they do little to encourage other black students to visit the University. The recruitment of black students at Notre Dame would be much easier if blacks would take a more active interest. "One of the chief problems is that blacks here are not unified," stated Darrel Claypool, a senior finance major at Notre Dame. "Too often egos get in the way. The situation would be much better if blacks were to come together as a people." 
Blacks and other minorities can function successfully within Notre Dame's predominantly white, Catholic environment. Encouraging other blacks to attend Notre Dame will not only improve the situation for blacks at Notre Dame, but for blacks everywhere. The many factors which negatively influence black enrollment at Notre Dame can be overcome if the black community becomes unified. With the cooperation of black students, the Notre Dame Admissions office could easily double the number of black freshmen admitted in 1984. No department or persons can achieve what the entire Notre Dame community can achieve together. 
Lester Flemons is a junior English and ALPA major atNotre Dame. 
Justice will come like a giant torrent rushing 
Because you have threshed my poor ones, because you forced into exile multitudes of people, or delivered them up to the hangman, because you pursued your brother with arms and cast off compassion altogether and kept your anger and wrath, because you have ripped up even pregnant women to enlarge your borders, because you burnt to lime the bones of the poor and weak, because you have 
Jurgen Brauer 
Sunday school 

rejected the law of charity and goodness and love and kept to lies,because you sell the righ­teous for money and the needy for a bribe and trample the heads of the poor into the dust of the earth, because you push the afflicted around at your will and lust, because you feast upon riches taken in pledge from the poor and drink the wine of those you have penalized, because you command my prophets, saying "Thou shalt not prophesy," behold! 
Hear the word of the Lord: You will be the first, you will go weeping into exile! 
Because you neither know nor care nor care to know how to do right, because you fattened cows oppress the poor and crush the needy, and say to your husbands "Bring that we may drink," because you transgress and multiply transgressions, because you bring to me your offerings and sacrifices and titles you took from others to proclaim and publish and boast about them, because you turn justice to wormwood and cast down righteousness to the earth, because you hate those who reproach you and abhor him who speaks of 
Garry Trudeau 
justice, because you take increased exactions 
from the poor and build for yourselves ever 
bigger homes, behold' 
Hear the word of the Lord: You will be dragged out by fishhooks into exile! 
I hate and despise your fea.o;ts, and no delight do I take in your solemn assemblies. Your offering I will not accept, nor will I look upon them. Take away from me the noise of your songs. Rather, let justice roll down like a giant torrent rushing. 
Woe to those who are at ease and feel se­cure, you notable men of the first among na­tions. Woe to you mighty ones who recline on beds of fine ivory, and stretch yourselves on prostitutes' couches, who eat the best lambs from the flock, sing idle songs, drink wine in bowls of gold and silver, anoint your pretty selves with sweet oils from the vine, but are not grieved by the ruin ofmy poor and hungry and naked ones. I abhor your pride and hate your places of power. You who have turned justice into poison and righteousness into wormwood, who rejoice in your own strength. Hear this, you who trample upon the needy, and bring the poor of the lands to an end, you who take exceptions for yourselves to sell on my holy days things ofprofanity, you who make your prices too high and your weights unjust and deal deceitfully with false balances, behold! 
Hear the word of the Lord: It is the time for justice or exile! 
So said Amos, the prophet, the herdsman and dresser ofsycamore trees ofTe!<oa to Bet­hel; but this was a long time ago in a foreign country and is not to be taken too literally. 
jurgen Brauer is an economics graduate studentat Notre Dame and is a regular View­point columnist. 
Quote of the day 
"No act ofkindness, no matter how small, is ever wasted." 
-Aesop 



"ie~P-Oi_n~t____________________________________________w__ed_n_e_sd_a~y-,A~p~r_n_I_o_,1_9_s_s__~p~ag~e--11 

P.O.BoxQ 

Would like 1 o thank all who aided in broadcast 
Dear Editor: 
As you have reportec, NBC News did a live broadcast (a first for thi:; campus) from Sacrt~d Heart Church of the Li1 urgy for Palm Sunday. It was at the suggesti011 of our National Con· ference ofBishops that .liassfrom Notre Dame was selected for a netw Jrk broadcast. 
I would just like to t< ke this opportunity to publicly thank the Notre Dame community for their generous am. enthusiastic support for this religious project. The Chapel Choir, the students who were ushers, servers and readers, and the folks in the procession and the congregation were both prayerful and in­volved despite the ra1 her exciting and dis­tracting circumstancts. I think that the Catholic Church in th•: United States can be very proud of Notre Dame. I know I certainly am. 
Daniel]enky, C.S.C. 
Director 
University Ministry 

Tim Kempton should! 
be treated ns a student 
DearEditor: 
When I first realizec that the incident con­cerning the Rockne hust would be treated seriously, I consider•:d the lessons I had learned from the exJ x:rience. A simple at­tempt to brighten up a few people's night, giving them moment~ they would not soon forget, went awry. 
Needless to say, borrowing the bust, with no one's knowledge, e ;en for a few nights, was wrong. "Never take anything that does :not belong to you" could easily sum up this les­son, with the added qualifier "even if you in­tend no harm, no one misses it, and intend to return it." 
When questioned t y the police, and Notre Dame Security, I coot: crated fully. I was more than willing to ans• ver any question for­warded to me, and I v •as very respectful to all authorities. I ended up standing outside ofthe Americana for I S mi mtes in the cold, rainy and windy Sunday rna rning, waiting for Secur­ity to arrive at the scene. I did not hide any of the facts. I was com Jletely honest and gra­cious. This lesson lear ned may be called "Two wrongs don't make a right," and I had already learned that one. 
Today, several day:: after the incident, lam beginning to grasp 01 .e of the most important lessons I may learn fi 'Om this whole episode. To say "Don't trust tile press" would be easy, yet it would be harsh. and unfair. I do not find fault with any local press agency for reporting the event. That is t 1eir own choice, and I guess the "bust" was • >fenough significance to merit the attention ol the South Bend Tribune, Channel 16 News anc lThe Observer. It is 1heir job to report the news. 
More fully, it is alw their job to report the news accurately, and with some sense of fair­ness and responsibility. I found it very painful to read the articles in both of the papers. Besides the fact tha: I would rather not be remembered this w: 1y, I found errors in the articles. When your \ssistant Rector posts an article from the South Bend Tribune, high­lighting things you "supposedly" said con­cerning the South Bt nd area, it does not make one sleep easily. Peo1 >le who read this, who do not know me, did not get an accurate portrayal of myseif and my personality. Through my contacts with the baskt:tball team, I have made m my close friends from the South Bend area, anc I can only hope that they do not believe that I would make those com­ments. 
Despite my personal humiliation, what galls me the most is the treatment ofTim Kempton. His part in the whole event is minor, almost insignificant. Yet, he is "Irish basketball center Tim Kempton." That makes him big news, right? "Kempton busted with Rockne bust" grabs the reader's attention. Throughout The Observer article, it was always "Kempton and Robinson," not "Robinson and Kempton." Why? Because Dave Robinson is just your average student, while Tim Kempton is a well­known athlete. Should he be penalized for this? 
Remember earlier this year, when people were hassling Kempton at the basketball games? Several editorials were printed in his defense. Kempton's recent treatment seems to contradict this attitude. He is more than a basketball player -he is a student. He is some­one who I am glad to say is a friend, and who, many years from now, I can say I was glad to know. I am appalled at the treatment he has received throughout this year, especially by some students, and this is just one more in­stance. Had this incident occurred with anyone else, it may have made The Observer, but definitely not the South Bend Tribune or Channel 16 News. As it was, his name made the headlines, not mine. Can't people let him enjoy the off season as a common student? The spotlight focused on him and the micro­scopic look at his actions are large enough during the season. The last thing he needs is to be continually analyzed and criticized throughout the year. 
You would think that members ofthis com­munity would understand the pressures on athletes here at Notre Dame. You would not expect to have some members make those athletes' lives any more difficult. You would expect them to understand the athletes' role and be considerate. Do not totally forgive Kempton for his small part in this incident, be­cause his is an athlete; just forget his role as an athlete and treat him in his role as a student. As a student, he is capable of making mistakes, just as we all are. Unfortunately, his part in all ofthis will not make the rest ofhis career here at Notre Dame any easier, but it is hard to change that now. 
Yes, Kempton stands out in the crowd. Besides his physical size, those who know him, know he has a laugh that you can hear from miles away. People who have read the article may have gotten a kick out of it and laughed. At least two of us, Kempton and myself, cannot laugh. Would it not be nice if, in the future, you could give Kempton the chance to laugh, as everyone lauglls? Would it not be nice if he is given the chance to enjoy the rest of his college days, as we all hope to enjoy them? This is what we ask from each other, so how can we deny him this pleasure? This is one lesson that, unfortunately, was taught the hard way. 
Thank you very much for your time. 
DavidA. Robinson PlannerHall 
The MS Drive captured Notre Dame's heart 
Dear Editor: 
Contrary to popular belief, the student body of Notre Dame rallied to a cause this spring not founded on self-interest or per­sonal gain. The demonstrations in evidence were demonstrations of good will, charitable intent and a sense ofcommunity. We are refer­ring to the Notre Dame "Millions Against MS" campaign which has been awarded the dis­tinction of raising, not only the most money per student, but the most money, regardless of size, ofany university in the program. The va­riety and success ofthe events planned are in­dicative of the ingenuity of the student body 
The JDint Chiefs of StaFf 


I 
=· 
. .P 

and _your desire for quality programming. Speaking on behalf of the Student Activities Office, the support and attitude of the Notre Dame community was very refreshing. 
The MS Committee, co-chaired by senior Aline Gioffre and freshman Vince Willis, dedi­cated hundreds of hours and made in­numerable sacrifices throughout the campaign. These people, with the support of the Hall Presidents Council, the Student Activ­ities Board, student government and the residence halls, combined their enthusiasm for Notre Dame and their belief in the worth of the "Millions Against MS" campaign to generate programs that enriched the social life at Notre Dame as well as raising money for a worthy cause. We would like to take this op­portunity to publicly thank them for their winning effort and express our admiration for their "stick with it" approach. 
Our admiration extends to all the Notre Dame community for your support and en­thusiasm, and for the proof, visible nationwide, that the Notre Dame Spirit lives in more than athletic competition. 
]oniD.Neal PaulR. Matwiy StudentActivities 
The Student Senate is not acting properly 
DearEditor: 
I am writing as an eyewitness of Student Senate's actions of April 1, 1984. Senators­elect john Ginty and K.C. Culum pointed out to the Senate that the proposed constitutional amendments were null and void because of the language used in the existing Constitu­tion. 
Article VII, Section II, paragraph I reads "An amendment to this Constitution may be pro­posed by a two-thirds vote of all the voting members ofthe Student Senate." On March 2S the Senate passed the amendments with ten votes in favor of the proposal. There are 17 voting members of the Senate. Two-thirds of 1 7 is 12 votes, two short ofwhat was obtained. 
Therefore, it is clear that the proposal did not pass on March 2S and that the senators whose terms ended March 31 held the April 1 meeting in direct violation of the Constitu­tion. 'When Senators-elect Ginty and Culum pointed this out to the Senate, panic swept the room. It was very clear that the members of the Senate were not acquainted with the high­est law of the Notre Dame student govern­ment. 
After nearly an hour of Senate rudeness, 
condescension, name calling and childish­
ness, the consensus of the Senate was that a 
mistake had been made, but nothing should 
be done. Student Body Vice President Cathy 
David summed up the attitude ofthe group by 
saying that the Constitution forbade their ac­
tion, but "for the greater good ofthe students" 
the Constitution would have to be over­
looked. ~ 
Student Body President Rob Bertino then 
took it upon himself to make a judgment on 
the constitutional violation, even though the 
Constitution clearly states that such a ruling 
must be made by a judicial Council commit­
tee. The reason given for bypassing the com­
mittee was that it might take longer than the 
two week extension the Senate illegally 
granted itself. 

I believe that after the Pat Browne reinstate­
ment fiasco and this current mockery of the 
highest law of the Student Government, the 
Senate has invalidated their offices. They have 
been caught with their hand in the proverbial 
cookie jar. The Senate is supposed to be 
representing the students, butI conclude they 
are representing nobody but themselves. I 
believe an initiative drive to stop the Senate's 
Constitutional amendments must be under­
taken, and upon its success, the duly elected 
government of the students of Notre Dame 
must lead the Senate away from egotism and 
utter disregard for the law and back onto the 
path the student body intended when it went 
to the ballot box. 
john Hallissy FisherHall 

Make the concert a ND celebration for success 
DearEditor: 

I am writing to congratulate the Student 
Body on its winning effort in the Millions Against MS campaign. The response ofthe stu­dent body to the tremendous efforts ofthe co­.ordinating committee was outstanding. All of us owe great thanks to Vince Willis, Aline Gioffre and all who coordinated the campus 
campaign. 

The free concert is a tribute to all Notre 
Dame students. I encourage all ofyou to make 
the concert a celebration of the spirit and 
unity that are hallmarks of the Notre Dame 
Family. 

Finally, all of your efforts have contributed 
to the search for a solution to the problem of 
MS, a disease that strikes so many young 
adults. At this time, when we celebrate the 
resurrection ofChrist, let us continue to com­
mit ourselves to His message ofcare and con­
cern for our brothc:rs and sisters who suffer. 
David T. Tyson, C.S.C. Vice President StudentAffairs 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box.Q, Noire Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed1tor·1n·Ch1el Sarah E. Harn1lton Bus1ness Manager. Dav•d Stephen•tcr. Manag1ng Ed1tor Amy Stephan Advert1s1ng Manager Anne Culltgan
Th<:! Observer IS the independent newpaper publiShed by the students of the 
News Ed1tor Ke<th Harr~son Jr Controller. B111 H1ghduchec"
University of Noire Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
News Ed1tor Dan McCullough Systems Manager Mark B. Johnson
reflec1 the policies of the adm<n1strat10n of either <nst1tution. The news iS reported as 
Sa~nt Mary's Execut1ve Ed1tor Theresa Guar~no Production Manager John A Menne<• accurately and as obtec1Jvely as poss1ble. Uns1gned editorials represent the op1nion 
Sports Ed1tor . Jeff Blumb of a matorlty of th~ Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Accent Ed1tor Mary Healy present the v1ews <Jf the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the V1ewpo1nt Editor Joe Murphy commun1ty. and th? free express1on of varying op<n10ns on campus. through letters. Photography Ed1tor Peter C Laches 
•s encouraged Copy Ch1el Frank L<po Founded November 3, 1966 
/iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
)' 
~ ) 
-

~ 
~ 
' 
'• 
' 
' 
•a 
~ ~ ~ 
Sports Briefs 
t-

The Notre Dame men's tennis teamwm travel to Ann Arbor, Mich., this afternoon to take on the Michigan Wolverines at 2:30.-The Observer 
The ND Squash Club will be meeting tonight at 7 
p.m. in the LaFortune Uttle Theatre. Elections will be held and T­shirts will be distributed. For more information, call Bill at 283­2302. ·The Observer 
AnTostal mud volleyball schedules are posted outside the student government offices on the second floor of LaFortune. First-round games will be played Saturday and Sunday. For more information, call janet Tabit at 277-3967 or Matt Corrigan at 28.3-2465.-The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball schedules may be picked up today and tomon-ow from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the AnTostal office in LaFortune. Players should remember to bring their IDs to the games, which begin f(mlon-ow.-The Observer 
AnTostal ultimate frisbee team representatives should pick up their schedules tonight between 7:30 p.m. and 9 
p.m. in the LaFortune lobby.-The Observer 
Wednesday, April 1 0, 1985 -page 12 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse. All members should attend. ­
The Observer 
The Irish Spring Runs, road races ofsix and three miles, will be held by NVA on Saturday, April 20. T-shirts will be awarded to all finishers, and a trophy will be awarded to the top finisher in each of the five divisions: men's undergraduate, women's undergraduate, men's graduate, women's graduate, and faculty and staff. An entry fee of S4 is due by Friday, April 12, in the NVA office. Additional registration will be held today from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the South Dining Hall and tomon-ow from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the North Dining Hall. -The Observer 
An interhall tennis tournament will be held by NVA on Saturday, April 20. Each hall may enter two singles players and two doubles teams; no player may play both singles and doubles. Team rosters for the single-elimination tournament are due by Friday, April 12, in the NVA office. -The Observer 
Interhall baseball umpires arc being sought by NVA. Anyone who is interested may fill out an application at the NVA office. -The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be dearly written.-The Observer 
Ueberroth: 
•
no expansion 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI-Baseball Commis­sioner Peter Ueberroth says he doesn't consider any U.S. city suitable right now as a site for an ex­pansion baseball franchise. 
"I only favor expansion when there's a city that qualifies under three criteria: local ownership with roots in the community, great fans and support of the city, county and , state and their politicians. There arc no such cities that qualify now," Ueberroth said. 
Officials in several cities, notably Denver and Indianapolis, have made efforts to try and bring a professional baseball team to their cities. 
Ueberroth, in Cincinnati to attend Monday's National League opener in which the Reds defeated Montreal 4­1, said he doesn't plan to get in­volved in the dispute over whether to install lights at Wrigley Field, home of the Chicago Cubs and last haven of daytime-only baseball in the major leagues. He also said he in­tends to stay out of the baseball con­tract negotiations between the players' union and owners ofthe pro teams. 
''I'm staying out of the way, and I intend to keep that position," Ueber­roth said. "I should not have a role." 
Of the Wrigley Field dispute over lights, lleberroth said he think.~ night baseball is inevitable at the park. 

1"he Ohsen·er :-Jotrt· Dame: oftkc:. locau·d on the third lloor of l.ah1rtum·
~ ~ 
Studc:nr Ct·nrer. accepts dassilkd adH'flt"ng from Y a.m. until ·t p.m...\londa\ 
• "'" through l'ridav 1"he Ohsen•er Saint Man "s offitT i<Kated on tlw thinl lloor of !' llaggar Colkge Ct:ntn. acn·pts dassifit:ds Irom 12: ~0 p m until ~ p.rn. ~I on­~ day though Friday I>t:adline h>r next-dav l"lassitkds is .~ p.m. All cl.tssifinb 
musr he prepaid. t"ithc:r in pc:rson or h\ mail.< .harge is I 0 <Tnts per fiH· d1arac··
Classifieds
!' 
rers c·r da,·. 

• ~  NOTICES  1 o the person who left the party at Turtle Creek Saturday mght (3/30) weanng my l.Jz Cle1borne demm jacket: It was a pretty chilly mght. but with any luck 1"11 survive  LOST a light blue GERRY ski jacket at The Commons on wednesday night beforg Easter break. A nice reward of­fered if found. Please contact Dan at at  Wordprocess1ng and Typ1ng 272-8827  HEY! IF YOU ORDERED A PROGREs­SIVE MUSIC CLUB T-SHIRT, YOU BET­TER PICK IT UP SATURDAY 2-4 P .M.IN 341 KEENAN. IF YOU DON'T PICK IT  GOOD MORNING. DAVE MULHERN! HOW'RE YA FEELIN THIS UGLY MOR­NING AFTER YOUR 21st B-OAY? JUST A BIT HURTING, DEAR? HOPE YOU  
~ ~ [lo " ~ • ~ ~ ~  TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 .:.. "t' TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 TYPING Jackie Bogga 684-87113 WORDPROCESSING • 2n-6045.  the pneumonia. And, smce sickness hasn't finished me off yel. l"d like my coat back. Please call Joan at 1292: if I don't make it through, I'll Will 1tto you. LOST: Vivitar lnstamatic camera at Sen1or Formalin ballroom. II you picked it up by accident, please call Julie at 234­7319. Lost: The Torso of our mannequin (answers to Blanche). Last seen at River­view Lodge in MIShawaka wearing a pink  1612. FOR RENT NEED AN APARTMENT Summer Townhouse available tor rent! Call 2275 for information.  OPEN MIKE NIGHT AT THE SMC CHAMELEON CLUB. CHAMELEON ROOMATH.C.C. FROM 9-11. JIM TABOR CORE COURSE Player of the week: Shalla O'Connor BUT DOES THE SOUP COME WITH POTATOESII  UP THEN, WE GIVE 'EM ALL TO RONNIE JAMES DIO, WHO WILL USE THEM AS KLEENEX. IT'S COMING ..... CHARITY BALL CHARITY BALL CHARITY BALL  HAD FUN LAST NIGHT AND CAN RE­MEMBER YOUR LATEST SEDUCERS NAME! WANT ANY MORE B-54 SHOTS? IF ONLY DONAL & EILEESH COULD SEE YOU NOW' HAPPY B-DAY DAVE (AKA ELROY, JOHNNY QUEST. .CHICKEN LITILE, STUD, THE SEDUCED ONE, DENNIS THE MENACE, ETC.) LOVE: PONY. SMEG. & SMURF  
~ ~ ~ ~ • ~ ~ ~  rv~iNG 277-8534 a«er s:3o TYPING Term papers, resumes, letters. manuscripts Reasonable rates, pickup & delivery on campuses ava1Jable. Call Mrs. Schuhz between 5-10 pm 277-5134. Will do Typ1ng -exper1enced typiSt Reasonable Call287-5162 Word Processmg and Typmg Resumes, Lerters, Papers. Documents Call 234­2380  sweater. Great Sentimental value. Please call284-5518 with any inlormation. LOST: BLUE NO BOOKBAG IMPOR­TANT TO GET NOTEBOOKS BACK 1M­MEDIATELY Luggage tag w1th BARNES-HIND corporate logo on it. Everything 1ns1de has name, address, 3136 on it. "Lost'" btwn. 10-10:45 AM Tues. April 2. In South Dining Hall. PLEASE CALL PSYCHO RIGHT AWAY AT 3136. SANKS HAS ANYONE FOUND MY UNCLE'S  APT. FOR RENT. 1 BDRM, LIVING ROOM, BATHROOM. SHARE KITCHEN. PRIVATE ENTRANCE. COUNTRY SETIING. 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS. SINGLES OR COUPLES. $240/MO. INCLUDES UTILITIES. RENT FOR SUMMER OR LONGER. AVAILABLE MAY t CALL DALE DAY 239-6537, EVE. 684-0538. WANTED  MOONCHJLDREN are commg! Reserve Apnl t 8, 19 and/or 20th and check them out in Washington Hall. RIDE NEEDED TO PITISBURGH, PA AREA ANYTIME THE WEEK OF APRIL 1-5. WILL SHARE EXPENSES CALL LINDA 284-5134 PUCKER UP and WATCH OUT! K1sser is  YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE The ND/SMC Charity Ball -A lam1ly response to Ethiopia Saturday, April20 9 p.m. Stepan Center Tickets on sale 1n dorms and at LaFortune record store. $6 smgle, $10 couple All students. faculty, and members of the ND/SMC community welcome.  BOBBY, CONGRADULATIONS' The Chicago Trib will never get a better man! Can't wait to see you behind the wheel of your new car! Remember, Sliver blue con­vertables are key! Looks like I'll be tak1ng hundreds of road triPS to Ch1cago-we'll deflnatety have to hit Mel Marken's one more time lor daquans and pasta burgers' Love, Hugs, & K1sses. P.A. P.S. N1ce tan lines!!  
.. ~ ..  am  seeking TRUTH VEGETARIAN ATHEIST PHYSICAL FEMALE  and  A  WATCH??? I still have not found my silver Acutron watch that belonged to my Great­Uncle. II you have by any chance dis­covered 11 1n a mett1ng snowbank or somethmg, Please call at 3300 and ask for Paul. II you want money or my first  
 coming! Kisser is coming! K1sser is com· ing! Why was LISA GLEASON stuck to her bed every morning?  Bad Joke 1 -Wise man say, "Man who wants to bowl a score of 300 has no time to spare'"  EUROPEAN SUMMER PROGRAMS -LAST CALL TO JOIN A NATIONAL GROUP OF STUDENTS, MOSTLY SMC/NO, FOR TRAVEL AND STUDY IN IRELAND, SCOT , ENG .. FR.. GER .  
~ ' ~ t  II mterested? Call232-0392 PRO-TYPE Over t 4 yra experience typing student papers, resumes, and dis­sertations 277-5833.  born or anything JUSt ask' DUE TO MY SPASTIC NATURE I HAVE MANAGED TO LOSE MY WINTER VEST IT IS BLUE WITH FLANNEL LINER AND CORDUROY COLLAR. IT ALSO HAS A GROUND ZERO BUTION  MOTORCYCLES I'VE BEEN CHECK­ING OUT THE BIKES IN THE LOT WANT TO SELL? CALL ME. WE'LL TALK. JIM 283-1620 ° I NEED GRAD. TIX!  TALL, GOOD-LOOKING MALE WITH­OUT A MUSTACHE ~EEKS GIRLFRIEND. MUST BE WELL­GROOMED, QUIET AND ALSO WITH­OUT A MUSTACHE. IF INTERESTED CALL NICK AT 1684.  CANONIZE HENRI LE BALAFRE, DUG DE GUISE! SENIORS,SENIORS:Need graduatiOn tickets! Father big gambler from Reno w1ll pay b1g bucks $$11 Call John at 277-0191  SWITZ. AND ITALY ON TWO DIFFER­ENT PROGRAMS. CALL PROF. A.R BLACK 284-4460 OR 272-3726.  
~ •..•l ~  ....  EARN MONEY ON ALL THE MAGAZINES SOLD ON CAMPUS. NEED PEOPLE TO POST INFORMA­TION. GOOD PROFIT WRITE, BPC, 8218 HARDY. OVERLAND PARK, KS 68204 THE FINANCE CLUB IS PROUD TO AN­ ATIACHED AND EVEN THOUGH GROUND ZERO NO LONGER EXISTS I STILL WOULD LIKE ITS RETURN DUE TO RELIGIOUS OBLIGATIONS . PLEASE RESPOND, THERE IS A REWARD IN THE FORM OF S&H GREEN STAMPS. CALL DAN AT 272­5416.  Please call L1sa at3544. FOR SALE--]  HAPPY BIRTHDAY Ellen M. (hotlegs)­Love, M&WIB St. Jude: Thanks. To the g~rl from Mansi, My soc1al bunertly, I love you a lot!! Love, -CRJ- Mr. Thibodeau IS a real party animal. He wants his class to take him out to Corby·s alter h1s comps. Define Hugh ol St. Victor. Tell us about the grim v1sage.  ELIZABETH MEEGAN: Life is nor com­plete without an t.D. -Do us all a favor, stop complaimng and GET ONE!!!!! yyyYour Budd1esyyy  
[lo [lo ~ a ~ ~ t ~ ~•• ~  i...  NOUNCE THAT THE OFFICERS FOR THE '85-86 TERM ARE BRYAN DEDRICK, TEAl ELLISON, MATI O'TOOLE, & JOHN WALLER. ALL THOSE INTERESTED IN STAFF POSI­TIONS SHOULD CONTACT ONE OF THESE PERSONS W1N do typmg -expenenced typll1. Reaaonabte Call287-5162. Earn money and work on Fortune 500 Compani8tl" marketmg programs on campuo. Part-hme (flexlb4el hours each week. We QIV8 references. Call t -80Q­243-6879 .__LOST/FOUND I  LOST: Ladles gold wristwatch With a grey leather band somewhere between room 204 O"Shag and the South Dimng Hall Tuesday mornmg. II lound, please call Jackie at3688. REWARD. LOST: VARSITY LETIER JACKET. Loal at LaFortune on 4/8. Size 42, button up, name wnnen inSide nght sieve. If you have any Into. concerning this jacket, or if you found it, pleaae turn it in at loat and lound or call me (272-9466). This IS very Important to me' Sincerely, Kev1n FOUND: BLACK GLACIER SUN­GLASSES IN ROOM 113 NSH AFTER DR. HAMBURG'S RUSSIAN HISTORY CLASSON WED. APRIL3. CALL JIM AT 2522 OR STOP BY 336 HOWARD HALL. FOUND: CORAL AND GOLD COLORED BRACELET IN 3N HOWARD. CALL JIM AT 2522.  Be smart! Sell your class books before the rush. Mon.-Fn between 12 and 4. Save$ on paperbacks. Fn: 3-6: 50/ off used: 20/ off new. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 So Bend Ave. 233-2342 FOR SALE: YAMAHA 6-STRJNG FOLK GUITAR.$180.283-3229 FOR SALE! 76VW RABBIT CALL 1459 6 UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE, NO­MEMORIAL AREA, EXCELLENT CON­DITION 233-9728 232-4528 For sale: Used butt-hay baling equipment Call Rectum J1m. PERSONALS  DEAR SS, HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY! LOVE, GREG HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THE YELLOW SUB AT 272-4453 MO-TH 8­ttpmFR-SA8pm-1am CHRIS SCHANNE: CHI-CHI"S CALLED, OUR T-SHIRTS AND VISORS WILL BE COMING IN SHORTLY. MJ RASTA RASTA RASTA Meeting Tonight 8:00 Mary, It's been the best year of my life, and I know it'll gel even beUer. Thanks for puning up with me. I love you. Bruce TheoMajora and other lntaraated atuclenta are Invlted to  FOREIGNER -Two tickets to the April 23 Foreigner concert for sale Seats are 3rd row, center stage, on the main floor. Tom 1175 To Zoid:Thanks for taking me home to sunny CA,where the most radical times were hed by all. Hopefully this summer Will be the same'Oh,by !he way, HAPPY SEVEN MONTHS!!! Love forever,W3. LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: Hope everyone had a happy Easter. Let's get right back into the spirit of things with a DANCE THIS FRIDAY and REC ON SATURDAY . Details tomorrow.  THE LOVE TRUCK TAKES A TRIP' we'll be there at three/are we almost there mom?/LAWRENCE, how's cosmo?/okay ANDY, lei"s talk, we're all tr~ends here/hey ANDY' whal"s that sound? do we have a llat t1re?/OLGAS!/bunons-mony, mony/gamers love the kmg'/parellats don't end at 2:15AM/the llood. the flood/JEN"S red sox/girls, we're Jeav1ng here at 6:1 5/stay to the tell, stay to the Jeft/thanx tor the proJ8ct tour! no GREG. we can't stop here!IOPA! there goes SUE'S hair/look a sow!/ANDY can we ba your cheerleaders? /girls get a clue/really, i'm just resting my eyes! Iii"s your world/SWEEEET!'Iso, how are you?/Oh SHEIL (willie jo), a flat tire­BOOMER to the rescue!/MB on a pop­corn high!/no peppera/THANX FOR A GREAT BREAK ANDY--LOVE YOUR GIRLS (THE NEW GAMERS)!II  
LOST a ladles gold ""'ko watch around  an Informal dlacuMion  A DARE TO DOMER BOYS I"M TAKING  
~  and about mam or south quad about 2  LOST:GOLD  WOMEN'S  "ADVANCE"  wtth  A SURVEY ...Oo you really call and W>sh  
'  -ks before apnng break--heaps and  DIGITAL WATCH ON WED.APRIL 3 BE­ OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR,  Fr. Jamaa Burtchaell, C.S.C  people a Happy Birthday Well I'm daring  
bunch• ol oenhmental value io attached  TWEEN WALSH AND THE BUSINESS  CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N.,  TONIGHT  you to call me. My name is BECKY and  GARY Thanks tor mak1ng Easter so great'  
l ­----­ to 11--P'-caJJ Heather at 3763 if you have lound 11--lhanka!  BUILDING. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL at 2116.  ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.  Wed., Aprfl1~10 pm-341 O'Shag  I'm 19. I'm a GREAT TIME and love MEN with a lack of hair.Call SMC at 4010  Good Luck this week with your exams and the meet! Love, Gooey and Annie  


-----~--­

Wednesday, April 10, 1985 -page 13
The Obset"lrer 
Carter home run lifts Mets 
Opening day continues in tnajors 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Gary Carter, in his first game with his new team, hit a one-out home run in the 1Oth inning to give the New York Mets a season­opening 6-5 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals on Tuesday. 
Reliever Neil Allen struck out Keith Hernandez to start the lOth, then had one strike on Carter before the Mets' catcher hit a line-drive homer into the Cardinal bullpen in left field. 
Tom Gorman, the fourth Mets pitcher, worked a scoreless lOth in­ning for the victory. 
Mets' starter Dwight Gooden, at 20 the youngest opening-day pitcher in modern baseball history, left the game after giving up con­secutive singles in the seventh. Gooden yielded six hits, walked two and struck out six. 
Cubs 2, Pirates 1 
CHICAGO Keith Moreland drove in two runs with a single and a home run and Rick Sutcliffe won his 15th consecutive regular-season game Tuesday to lead the Chicago Cubs to a 2-1 opening-day victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Sutcliffe, the 1984 Cy Young win­ner who had a 16-1 record for the National League East champions last year, went 7 2-3 innings, allowing six hits and striking out three. 
Lee Smith struck out three of the four batters he faced to earn the save. 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOUS Of the thousands upon thousands of youngsters who have played Indiana high school basketball, the Big '0', Oscar ---------------·----------------Robertson, was perhaps the greatest. 

Robertson, who led Indianapolis Attucks to back-to-hack state cham­pionships and was named Mr. Bas­ketball as a senior in 1956, went on to earn All-American honors at the University of Cincinnati. 
Then he played 14 seasons in the National Basketball Association, in­cluding 12 appearances in the league's All-Star game, for a career that placed him in the Basketball Hall ofFame. 
During his professional career, Robertson averaged 25.7 points and topped the 40-point mark 77 times in regular-season play. He finished with 26,710 points and recorded a record 9,887 assists. 
Robertson, 46, now lives in Cin-
Robertson remembers high school days as Mr. Basketball in Indiana 

Mory Jane Frances Covolino Meara. Jl!'ffrey Allen .lo~h StoOl!'. 
Pcofo.e1Ji11;; ;~ted ==1~e2 OOUI31EbAY America finds it at 
Waldenbooks® 
Books •Audio • video • Magazines • Software • Book Clubs • Special Services 
Giants 4, Padres 3 
SAN FRANSISCO -Rookie Chris Brown singkd to left field with one out in the bottom ofthe ninth inning to give the San Francisco Giants and pitcher Vida Blue a season-opening 4-3 victory over the National League champion San Diego Padres on Tuesday. 
Blue, the veteran left bander who was out of baseball last season be­cause of a drug conviction, won in the big leagues for the first time since 1982. He did it by coming out of the bullpen and retiring the final batter in the top of the ninth after San Diego had tied the score. 
The Padres were held to one hit through six innings by Giants starter Atlee Hammaker, who faced the minimum 18 batters. In the seventh, the Padres put runners on the first and third on hits by Jerry Davis and Mario Ramirez. After Tony Gwynn flied out, Frank Williams came out of the bullpen to replace Hammaker. 
Bobby Brown, running for Ramirez, broke prematurely towards second, but Williams' throw sailed into centerfield and Davis scored. Steve Garvey's single scored Brown to tie the game 2-2. 
Braves 6, Phillies 0 
PHILADELPHIA -Rick Mahler allowed three hits over seven in­nings and reliever Bruce Sutter retired the final six batters Tuesday night as the Atlanta Braves took ad­vantage of six Philadelphia errors to beat the Phillies 6-0 Tuesday night in a National League opener. 
Mahler struck out five and walked two. Sutter, the free agent who left the St. Louis Cardinals to sign a six­year, $10 million contract with At­lanta, struck out three in his two innings to preserve the three-hitter. 
Steve Carlton lost for the eighth time in 10 opening-day assignments. He missed a chance to move into a tie for 1Oth place on the all-time vic­tory list as he gave up four hits, struck out three and walked six in six innings. 
White Sox 4, Brewers 2 
MILWAUKEE Tom Seaver, making a record 15th opening-day start, scattered five hits over 6 2-3 innings to lead the Chicago White Sox t.o a 4-2 victory over the Mil­waukee Brewers on Tuesday. 
Seaver, entering his 19th season, 
struck out three and walked one in 
improving his opening-day record 
to 7-1. He had been tied with Walter 
Johnson with 14 opening-day assign­
ments. 
The White Sox capitalized on two 
errors by Milwaukee second 
basemanJim Gantner to score twice 
in the first inning. Chicago added an­
other run in the fourth. The 
Brewers, aided by two wild pitches 
by Seaver, rallied for two runs in the 
seventh. 
Bob James relieved Seaver and 
picked up a save. Moose Haas was 
tagged with the loss. 
cinnati and is the father of three 
daughters. 
"I have a construction company. I also own a chemical company and a road trucking business. We've just got started in the past four or five years with a couple of interests. We're trying to get business throughout America," he said in a recent interview. 
But his recognition as Mr. Basket­ball hasn't been forgotten. 
"It meant not only that you were the top player but also it meant that your team was very successful," Robertson said. "I don't think you can be a top player, no matter how great you are, unless your team has enjoyed some measure ofsuccess." 
In 1955, as a junior, Robertson scored 30 points as Attucks defeated Gary Roosevelt 97-74 for the state championship. The following year, Attucks pounded Lafayette Jeff 79­57 in the title game as Robertson scored a then-record 39 points. The Tigers finished the season with a 31­0 record. 
"We were the first team to go un­defeated and win a championship. We were the first team from In­dianapolis to win and the first black team to do it," says Robertson, point­ing out that it took more than his su­perb performances. 
"I think it takes a group of individuals, people who can play basketball and work together to produce success," Robertson said. "That's the real key. You get a lot of great players who may not want to put their effort together and you won't go anyplace." 
Having been raised in the inner­city. Robertson feels compassion for those less fortunate. He's recently joined with Basketball Hall of Farner Bob Cousy to help develop funding that would aid former NBA players who have financial problems and don't have big pension benefits. 
"I think it's something that's been needed for a long time," he says about the NBA foundation to aid the former players.''I think it will show that people care about somebody else. You've got to have compassion for your fellow man. When you don't, all is lost." 
He still travels to Indianapolis fre­quently. 
"My father lives here, my brother works for the Pacers and I have a lot of friends here, " he said. "This is home for me." 
And he says that no other state compares with Indiana for its sup­port of the sport that brought him fame. 
"There is no comparison to the 
way Indiana supports high school 
basketball," he said. "This state stops 
everything when the tournament 
comes on. I remember when Bob 
Knight first came to Indiana, he was 
upset because they pre-empted his 
game to put on the high school 
championship (on television)." 
Unltadway
• 

~----~----~---~-----------­
The Observer 
NBA. Standings 
f.aarc-ro Coofercncc Westero Conference Atlandc Dhiafoo Midwe-st DfTUion
.. L Pet. GB .. L Pet. GB 
Do~ tun 61 17 .78'5 Oc:-nvc-r S I lH .646 
,.

Philac.Jdphia ll .711 Hou~ton 41> 33 .SHl Nrwjrrsc.-y w 40 .494 13 Dalla~ 41 3" .S31 9 Wa."hinl(ton :19 40 494 1:\ San Anwniu 40 40 .<00 II.S
,,

Ne-w York H .W4 .\8 Ctah w 40 .494 11 
Central Dlvt•loo Kan...a.-.Ch)' 31 48 .391 lO Mllwaukrc Sb 23 .""1'09 Pactftc Dtvtslon Detroit 43 .\6 .H4 13 LA. taker:<~ S9 10 .""47 Chlf..·agu _\8 4l 47S 18.< Portland 40 w .<06 19 Clevclaml _H 44 .44:1 11 Phoenix 34 46 .41< H.S 
Adanta .\1 48 ..\91 2< ~anlr :II 48 .:\91 18 
Indiana ll S7 .1~8 .H LA. Clipperb 19 so .367 30 Goldrn State:-ll S7 .2""'8 37 
Tuesday's Results 
"'utungwn I :\0, Atlanta II0 Dcltuil 10"', NC'w York 9""' Clncland I 1-t, NC'W JcrsC"y I 00 lltah 123, L.A. Clippers 104 Ph.Uaddphia t 13. 805ton I04 L.A. Lakcn. 148, Denver I 19 Un.~Chy II"', Oalln 10'5 Portland I 16, Pho~nix I 00 Kou~ton I l4, San Anronlo IO;i 
Louisville Redbirds unsure of Opening day team roster 
Associated Press 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Manager Jim Fregosi isn't sure what lineup he'll use Friday night when the Louisville Redbirds open defense of their American Association title. 
'!bat will hinge on the final reshuf­fling by th-: St. Louis Cardinals, the Redbirds' parent club. 
Friday's first pitch will be thrown by right-hander Kevin Hagen, the team's only returning starter, against Indianapolis at 7:30p.m. But nobody knows who will be backing him up. 
The Cardinals' Ozzie Smith, Na­tional League All-Star shortstop, cur­rently is playing the final season of a three-year contract of $1.3 million a
II 
.. year.
,. 
St. Louis tried to re-sign him, but he reportedly turned down a hefty offer, a multi-year contract at S1.7 million a year and a SSOO,OOO sig­ning bonus. llte St. Louis offer is said also to have included a SSOO,OOO loan at 2 percent below the prime lending rate and an Anheuser-Busch 
beer distributorship. 
Fregosi also had planned on 

shortstop Angel Salazar to return to 
the club, but Salazar was traded for 
the New York Mets' jose Oquendo. 
And on Saturday, the Cards swapped relief pitcher Dave Rucker for Philadelphia shortstop Ivan Dejesus. The team also gained vet­eran relief pitcher Bill Campbell. 
The upshot is that Fregosi will have an infield with more defensive talent than many major league teams. 
"Our infield defense should be fine," he said. "We've got a lot of ex­perienced, good ballplayers." 
A week ago, Fregosi expected an infield of shortstop Salazar, second 
IAMERICAN <J/CANCERJ.SOCIETY' 

baseman joe Pettini, third baseman ~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~:!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!:1 
Tom Lawless and first baseman Ron jackson. 
But now, in addition to a shortstop switch, second baseman Billy Lyons will replace Pettini. 
~Wbt&~gQlstlt 
·,. j.. '' 
~-· :-·~··. ' 
•...·•. · 1: .. 

$8 
50 HAIRCUTS 
. . 
Haitcut. 
MWl....I&,UD 
shampoo,
(CICI'WI "-Martln'a) 
&blowdry 

2.12-0312 H•ir mual be Sh•m~ d•y of cut. We ere 011/r mlfttr...,_c.mpua 

Granger Tap and Grill 
32 oz. Sirloin for two ....... $15.95 Prime Rib . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.75 12 oz. Lobster Tall .... Market Price 

Come have breakfast, lunch, or dinner cocktails 
and sandwiches anytime! Watch the game on 
our 60" TV screen. 

Mon.-Sat. 6am-11pm Sun. 8am-9pm12797 St. Road 23 
277-6812 


~..._-----~~~-~-~-~ 
Wednesday,April10, 1985--page 14 
Southern Illinois basketball coach resigns after finding of violations 
at jackson Community College in Michigan. He compiled a 49-62 record with the Salukis-29-25 in the past two years. 
"When I came here, we had the longest losing streak in the country," Van Winkle said. "I believe I've taken this program as far as I can take it . 
"I've coached at all levels in col­lege basketball, and I've made a lot of friends who know I've always done things the right way. I'm sure there are other opportunities out there for me." 
Stuck said Assistant Coach Her­man Williams and Assistant Athletic Director Bruce McCutcheon will assume responsibility for the basket­ball program while university offi­cials seek replacements for Van Winkle and Stephenson. 
Stuck assumed his job two weeks ago in a reorganization under which university Vice President Bruce Swinburne relinquished control of intercollegiate athletics. He already was looking for someone to replace Athletic Director Lew Hartzog, whose resignation takes effect Aug. 
31. 

Associated Press 
CARBONDALE, Ill. -Southern Illi­nois University basketball Coach Al­len Van Winkle resigned Tuesday after disclosure that one of his assis­tants was aware of under-the-table payments to the Salukis' star center. 
"Van Winkle cited personal 
reasons for his resignation, which is 
effective today," Dean Stuck, special 
assistant in charge of intercollegiate 
athletics at the school, said at a news 
conference. 
The action came four days after 
Stuck announced the resignation of 
Stafford Stephenson, an assistant 
coach who admitted he knew about 
weekly S200 payments being made 
to 6-foot-11 center Kenny Perry. 
Carbondale chiropractor Roy S. White told university officials last Thursday he agreed to the payments in the summer of 1982, when Perry transferred from the University of Evansville. 
White also contended Van Winkle was involved in the arrangement, but Stuck said an internal investiga­tion launched after White's dis­closure showed no wrongdoing by the coach. 
"I have not uncovered any evidence to corroborate an allega­tion that Allen Van Winkle was in­volved in any payments to Perry," he said. 
"My decision to resign is in no way based upon the allegations," said Van Winkle later Tuesday. He did not attend the news conference. 
"If I made any mistake at all, it was probably coming here in the first place," he said, citing frustration with budget cuts "that nearly broke my spirit" and the school's apparent decision to reduce the emphasis on basketball. 
Perry, 23, from Rockport, Ind., was recruited by Stephenson when he was an assistant coach at Evansville, and transferred to South­ern Illinois a year after Stephenson switched jobs. 
Perry's brother, Clint, 38, said Sat­urday that Stephenson had taken him to meet White during a visit to the Carbondale campus three years ago. 
But Clint Perry said neither Step­henson nor his younger brother were there when he worked out the deal with White, who agreed to pro­vide Kenny Perry S200 a week and a rent-free mobile home in return for odd jobs. 
Perry sat out the 1982-83 season because of NCAA rules regarding transfer students, but was named the 1983-84 Missouri Valley Confer­ence Newcomer of the Year. He averaged 13.4 points and 6. 7 rebounds per game in his final year of eligibility, when the Salukis finished the 1984-85 season with a 6-10 conference record, 14-14 over­all. 
Van Winkle, 37, moved to South­ern Illinois in 1981 after three years 

SENIOR BAR 
BARTENDERS 
WANTED 
Be one of the few, the proud. 
You'll kick yourself later if you 
don't apply and ntiss the best 
tinte of your life. 
Pick up and return applications 
at Student Activities in 
LaFortune. 
DEADLINE: Monday Aprill5 at 5 p.nt. 
--------~-------~--~----·..-------~---~ 
The Obsern~r Wednesday,April10, 1985-page 15 
NUL playoffs begin tonight; eight divisional semi-finals to take place 

Associated Press 
The fortunes of the Montreal Canadiens and Boston Bruins have changed so much in the last 12 months that when they meet in the opening round of the National Hockey League playoffs, they will have reversed positions. 
The Canadiens were a weak fourth in the Adams Division last year, while the Bruins won the sec­tor. But Montreal shocked Boston in· the best-of-five first round of the 1984 playoffs with a sweep-. 
Ever since, the Canadiens have been moving up the NHL ladder and, this season, in what wa§ expected (o be a rebuilding year in Montreal, they finished first in the division. At the same time, the Bruins have been sliding and their 36-34-l0 mark and' 82 points were considered poor numbers in Boston; 
The teams will square off Wednes­day night in Montreal, when all eight divisional semifinals begin. The 
'''*' Kansas City likely to get CBA team 
APPhoto 

when leagu~ expands later this year 

Pat Hickey (61, and the St. Louis Blues will host the Minnesota • Associated Press t;--""t";" North Stars tonigJ. •t as the NHL begins itspost-season. For more on the eight divisiont rl semi-finals, see the story at right. 
t 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Kansas City 
------------------------------+ 
Two Tulane students plead ~~uilty to charges 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS-Two Tulane stu dents, one a member of the basket­ball team, pleaded guilty Tuesday in connection with the Green Wave basketball point-sha,.ing scandal, DistrictJudge Alvin 0 ;er said. 
David Rothenberg, 22, a student from Wilton, Conn. and Bobby Thompson, 21, a little-used guard, entered the pleas in a ;urprise court appearance and face ~ entencing on July 9 after an investigation by the state's Department ol Corrections, Oser said. 
Thompson pleaded guilty to on count of conspiracy to commi sports bribery, Rothenberg to two counts ofconspiracy and one count of possession of cocaine, Oser said. The conspiracy count carries a max­imum sentence of 2% years in prison and a fine of S2,500. The pos­session count carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a fine of SS,OOO. 
They were two of the eight me~ charged in an alleged point shaving scheme that led to the discovery of NCAA recruiting violations and the resignation of basketball Coach Ned Fowler and two ofhis assistants. 
will likely get one of the two new 
Continental Basketball Association teams wher. the league expands this year, Commissioner James Drucker said Tuesday. 
"The prospects for a CBA fran­chise in Kansas City are better than SO-SO," Drucker said at a news con­ference following a meeting with Mayor Richard Berkley. "Kansas City is our league's first choice for expan­sion." 
The CBA, which grew from eight to 12 teams in 1982 and to 14 teams last season, is also studying expan­sion to Fort Wayne; San Diego; Beaumont, Texas; and Austin, Texas, said Drucker. 
Drucker said he would meet Wed­nesday with two ownership groups who have expressed an interest in acquiring a team. He declined to identify the groups, but said one would involve IS to 20 people while the other would be a partnership of three or four people. 
The price of the expansion team 
would be  SSOO,OOO,  up from  the  
S3I0,000  paid  last  year  for  the  
Tampa Bay Thrillers.  

Expansion to Kansas City is de­pendent on approval by the National other series have Buffalo at Quebec in the Adams Division; the New York Rangers at r>hiladelphia and New York Islanders at Washington in the Patrick; Detroit at Chicago and Min­nesota at St. Louis in the Norris; Los Angeles at Edmonton and Calgary at Winnipeg in the Smythe.
(' 

Canadiens defenseman Larry Rob­inson is looking forward to a tough series with the Bruins, who were 3­4-1 against Montreal during the season. 
"They have a lot of rested hockey 
players this year," said Robinson. "In 
the past they have been in the race 
unti the end, but this year they were 
out ofit earlier and able to rest." 
· Coach jacques Lemaire, who has 
turned the team around since 
moving behind the bench near the 
end of last season, sees little advan­
tage in having the home ice against 
the Bruins. 
"It means a bit but not as much as 
used to, to be at home," said 
Basketball Association Board of 
Governors for the Kansas City Kings 
to move to Sacramento, Calif. 
The CBA entry in Kansas City would play in either Kemper Arena or Municipal Auditorium, both of which were "very favorable" sites, Drucker said. 
The ownership group for Kansas City could be selected within three weeks, and the expansion would be voted on during the league meeting june 2 in Orlando, Fla., according to Drucker. The team, which would begin play Dec. S, would be stocked in a draft in which established teams could protect only five players. 
A CBA team could break even by averaging 1,700 fans a game, said Drucker, adding that six ofthe CBA's 14 teams made a profit this year and nine were expected to become profitable next year. 
The CBA is interested in Kansas City because it would continue a CBA move into larger markets, Drucker said. He said the league cur­rently has a player development contract with the NBA, but may someday compete with the older league. 
Drucker referred to the CBA as a "Triple-A plus" league because its teams span the continent, it has a cable television contract that offers Lemaire. "Ten years ago, it meant a lot more. 
"Each team has proven it can play in the other's building. If your team is ready, your chances will be good." 
The Bruins need a good playoff to erase the memory of a mediocre season in which Gerry Cheevers was replaced as coach by General Manager Harry Sinden. 
"We're not trying to salvage the season in the playoffs. We're trying to win the playoffs," said Sin­den."l've seen too many teams that have wound up behind other teams and won (the playoffs) over the years in this· league, 
"We had a season that certainly we're not used to around here. You become accustomed to .600 or .700 hockey around here for 16 or 17 years, and it's a disaster when you're ­just over .SOO." 
Added Bruins captain Terry O'Reilly, '"When we are on top of our game we can beat them. Our best game can beat their best game." 
its "Game of the Week" to nine mil­lion homes and because the quality ofplay has improved. 
The CBA has kept its fans inter­ested with promotions such as the Sl Million Super Shot, which gave fans a chance to win Sl million by making a full-court shot, Drucker said. 
Rules changes, such as sudden death overtime and figuring stand­ings based on points earned for win­ning quarters and games, also helped hold fan interest, Drucker said. 
Football 
continuedfrom page 20 
The man standing in the shadows of Steve Beuerlein last year, Scott Grooms, will graduate in May, leaving only the three unproven freshmen, Terry Andrysiak, Tom Byrne and Pat Pesavento to ill! the role. Although Faust has been pleased with the play of all three men, Byrne and Andrysiak have shown considerable poise behind the offense. 
"Andrysiak and Byrne are running about even right now," says Faust. "They both do certain things very well. Andrysiak throws the ball well and runs well to the outside, while Byrne throws well and runs better inside. But as of right now, they're both doing even better than we ex­pected." 
The agenda for the second half of the spring includes more chances for the freshmen quarterbacks to win the back-up slot, more varia­tions in offensive formations and the increased use of the special teams, which have not seen action in either of the two scrimmages. 
"We're going to look at the of­fense and try to implement some new things," says Faust. "Also, we're goingto start workingon the kicking game." 
Looking ahead to the next two weeks, Faust can only hope that his team will continue to move quickly through its slower, more fundamen­tal practices, and that there will be no more injuries to the squad. 
If the Irish can continue to prog­ress over the remaining two weeks of the spring season, they may never lose their cool once the real season begins. 
Thanks to you... • 
it works ... 
for ALL OF US ..,......... 

NVA_;__.:....:..::N'o:..:.n=--V-=-=a.:..:rs::.:-•.:oly1...;Pt:...;l;,:..:.ttn:..:..:.:t'e:..:.tir:..:c:..:.s________-3 
IRISH SPRING RUNS 
St.TURDAY APRIL 20 NC TRE DAME CAMPUS 
TWO RACES 
IRISH SPRIN'3 SIX 11:00 AMI. IRISH SPRIN,:; THREE -10:00 AM. 


T-SIIRTS AWARDED TO ALl• FINISHERS SIX DIVISIONS: MEN'S AND WOllEN'S UNDERGRAD, GRAD AND FAC-STAFF FIRS.. PLACE TROPHIES IN EACH DIVISION 
TRAFf'IC CONTROLLED AID STATIONS SPLITS GIVEN AT EVERY MILE FOUR DOLLAR ENTRY FEE 

REGISTR~ TION DEADLINE APRIL 12 ATTHEACC 
East Quad to hold 
Social Service 
Appreciation Mass 
The East Quad -Flanner, Grace, P.W. ll P.E. -plan to celebrate a social service appreciation Mass on Sunday, Aprll14. The Mass will be held at 4:30 on the East Quad and will be followed Immediately I?Y a picnic. 
The purpose of this Mass will be to celebrate the In­teraction between the members of the four East Quad dorms and the local community. Guests of the Mass will In­clude the Big Brothers/Big Sisters, Logan Center, Nelghbqrhood Help program, Elderly VIsitation programs and all other community groups with whom the residents or the rourt halls have ministered. 
The theme of the event will be the mutual celebration of the Mass between the East Quad members and apprecia­tion for their work with the community. Mass will be celebrated by Father Daniel Jenky, esc, director of University Ministry. The university food service will provide the food for the picnic following the Mass. 
An East Quad members are encouraged to attend, and they are equally encouraged to Invite all people of the community who1hey have served during the past year. We see the Mass and picnic as a fitting, praytul nurturing or the love and service that have bonded us together. 
Ed Ho, Pat Tadesco and Gerry Roerty Committee Members: East Quad Social Service Mass 
The Observer Wednesday,April10, 1985-page 16 
Women's tennis team Cutting it down to 512 • • • 
Yeeterdey'o Reoullo 6:15-Abdul & the Rabid Aardvarks from Hellv. 4 Bookotore 9 P1gs & a Stud 
wins three big matches 
5:30-A M•ck. a Hun, a l•mey.. , v Boy Scouts 

By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame wo­men's tennis team thanked the Easter Bunny for more than the M&M's in their Easter baskets Sun­day morning. 
Aftt·r fighting for three critical vic­tories over their closest NCAA Division II midwestern rivals over the Easter break, tht· Irish a<.lde<.l an assured spot to May's National Championship Tournament to their collection of Easter goodies. 
While tournament bids will not be formally announced until later this month. Notre Dame's impressive wins over Southern Illinois University-E<.Iwar<.lsville ( ';-4 ), the University of Evansville (9-0 ), and Morehead State University ( 7-2) last weekend in Evansville probably locked up an automatic hid to the National Championships for the Irish. 
"'lbere is no guarantee for an au­tomatic bid, but I don't see why we wouldn't be at the Nationals," said Irish head coach Sharon Petro. "Anything is possible and we can't sit hack on our laurels. This weekt·n<.l should inspire us to work harder." 
Notre Dame's l'hances of receiv­ing an automatic hid vastly im­pro_ve<.l after Saturday's ';-4 clilt'-hanger against Edwardsville. Earlkr this season, Edwardsville defeated the Irish ';---i in florida and was the primary obstacle standing between Notre Dame and the trip to ( :alifornia. 
Saturday's nailbiter against E<.l­wardville saw the Irish coming from behind to snatch the victory from the Salukis. Suspense intensified with the Irish down 4-3 and junior Izzy <)'Brien struggling at numher six singles against her opponent. After dropping her first set 6-4, O'Brien rallied in the next two sets ""·6 and ""-'; to tie the score at 4-4 when the last doubles team stepped on the court. 
at  4:00  on  Stepan,  Lyons,  and  
Bookstore  courts.  At  the  end  of  
today's  games,  '; 12  teams  will  

Tension spiraled as junior Mary Colligan and senior co-captain Lisa LaFratta started at number two doubles. 'Ibey stuggled for a 6-3 win in the first set and then dropped their next set 6-3. Colligan and Lafratta soli<.II y defeated their oppo­nents 6-1 in the final set, giving Notre Dame the meet and smooth sailing to the National Tournament. 
"lbey were all losing at one point and we weren't too optimistic," said LaFratta. "It didn't look good when 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION-

Izzy was losing and they could have won before we even got on the court." 
"lhe turning point was lzzy's fight back to win the third set," said Petro. "Edwardsville plays a different style of tennis, hut Mary and Lisa ex­pected it. They kept their com­posure and played good tennis." 
Notre Dame's 9-0 shutout against Evansville generated confidence for the team as it went into Saturday's contest against Edwardsville. lbe Irish quickly won all their matches in two sets, allowing the team to rest before the E<.lwar<.lsville meet. 
"We knew how Evansville played," explained LaFratta. "We wanted to get on and off the court as quickly as possible and we did it." 
While the Irish were confident 

they would defeat Morehead State, 
they were not expecting an easy 7-2 
win. Last year, Morehead State 
defeated the Irish during the regular 
season, <.lashing Notre Dame's plans 
to grab the automatic bid to the Na­
tional Championship. 
"We took them too lightly last year," explained Petro. "This year we played better and they were not as strong." 
High winds affected both teams' 

performances on Friday, something 
that probably gave the Irish an edge 
over Morehead State. "We've never 
played in wind that had before," said 
Petro. "We kept our composure bet­
ter than they <.lid." 
On Friday, the Irish travel to the University of Miami-Ohio for one of their toughest meets of the season. Last year, Notre Dame defeated Miami for the first time in the team's history, <;-4, and the Re<.lskins will be looking to avenge the loss. Later, the 'Irish trek to Bowling Green, Ohio, to tackle Central Michigan University and Bowling Green University on Saturday afternoon. 
"It will he a very tough battle and we'll see what we're made of," said Pt·tro. 
Revenge of the Fun Bunch over Donkey Hody & the One Armed Band1ts by 13 
Todey'o Gamel 
Stepen 1 
4:00-P1gsters v. The QUI«ers 
4:45-Cooter Shooters Minus the N1ght Sp1derv. 
V delta E 
5:30-Lack of Eflort v. Perog1es 
6:15-Berger's Vectorsv. Ken Kesey & the Merry 
Pranksters 
7:00 -PB & Who Knows v. The Fourth Main Ve1ns Stepan 2 4:00-Equ1po Revrnuc1anarto Popular v. Bearcat 
Express 4:45-Furious Five v. 9 Kidneys 5:30-QUI SUK v. 4 Fags and a Zahmb1e 
6:15 -Dryheeves v. Gilhgan, Kernan, Sadist, Puppy and Party Doll 7:00-Slave Labor & the Terminatorv. De1gnan's 
Greasy Dishes Stepen3 
4:00 -Haynes Hackeus v. Two Stoned to Play Zone 
4:45 -Two Bucks v. Damel Ortega & the N1caraguan Allies 
5:30 -Balance & the Dynamic Four v. Bad Finger: the Finale 
Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 20 
crowd and began asking to see the Bandits' green cards. All of the Ban­dits had their cards except one, who started a gun battle with the officer. After a brief exchange of shots, the officer fell to the ground, severely wounded on the upper thigh. 
The Seducers again assisted the Bandits. much to the delight of Fun Bunch's Pat Collins, who somehow missed getting his kiss <.luring 'Ibe Seducers' first appearance. A voice in the crowd suggested that the only time Fun Bunch could score was when '!be Seducers were on the court. But that really was not the case as they soon led the Bandits I';­';, 
At this point, the Bandits called a timeout and ran off the court into their van as the donkey retreated to the sidelines. When they returned, each player was wearing Notre Dame boxing shorts and actual Notre Dame basketball jerseys borrowed from the athletic depart­ment. Taped on the back ofthe shirts were the names Paco, Enrico, Julio, 
CLASS of 1988... 
Plans for Sophomore Literary Festival 1986 are beginning ... 
Positions needed: Sophomore Literary Festival Chairman, executive committee members 
Pick up applications 2nd floor Lafortune, 
SAB offices 

Deadline for applications is Friday, Apr. 12 
Get Involved! 
7:00 -Cyril, Scooter & the Salvations v. Brick 
Shooters Stepan 4 
4:00 ·This is a Dtctatorshtp v. The Annex 

4:45 -4 Guys & a Wh1te Eth1op1an v. Campers 
Umted 5:30-Canfield's Crew v. The Court Mongers 6:15-Power Tools v. The K1ds Are All R1ght 
7:00 -Non Euclidean Pinheads v. Your Worst Ntghtmare 
Stepan 5 4:00-Readers of Swedish Erottca v. Hammsters 4:45-Hitler Youth v. Johnny D. & 4 Guys Who 
Haven't Been Arrested 

5:30 -Gurn Blanslon's Bumbling Babboom v. 4 People & a Short Fat Guy 6:15-Scarfing Rebels v. Boo's Bar 
Stepen 6 4:00-The Hoobstersv. Sooooof 4:45-Chicks are Dumb v. Jamm1n Johnnie & the 
B.O.H.I.C.A.S. 5:30-5 Guys Who Don't Go To Corby's v. Team 512 6:15-Mag1c Dick & the 4 Skins v. the Company's Pretty.. Stepen7 
4:00 -Choose Death v. Descartes & the Ev1l 
Demons 4:45-No Name v. Staff Infections 

Chili Sauce and, ofcourse, Donkey. 
The real names of Barrett's teammates are Rob Heglin, Pat Browne, Bill Higgins and O'DonnelL For the remainder of the game the five Stanford juniors played com­petitively, but Revenge of the Fun Bunch soon prevailed by the final score of21-8. Barrett and O'Donnell led the Bandits with three baskets apiece, while Rehder and Treacy each put in six for Fun Bunch. 
Barrett said that he and his friends came up with the Donkey Ho<.lie idea when tlley were trying to think of their team name_ 
"We were all just sitting around talking about team names," says Bar­rett. "Then somebody said Don Quixote and we got the donkey idea. We were just glad to score eight points." 
'Ibe donkey, named King Louis Ill, was provided by Jim Hurwich, and proved to he the highlight of the game. 
Bookstore XIV continues today, with 47 preliminary games starting 
remain in the tournament. 


Petal your Affection 
~ 

Hours:12:30-5:30 w~~~~...~~·~ Located in the basement ' d-=::of::-t.La_Fo-rtun_e_GARDENs 
-
Who Eat Browmes .. 
Booketore9 
4:00-The Ner1s v. Team Many Martoon1es 
4:45-Spuds v. Purple Helmeted Love Warnors 
5:30 -Traflic Controllers v. Lipstick on My DipStiCk 6:15-The G Men v. Hey Do You Want a Beer BookotorelO 4:00-Young Dan & H1s4 Na1ve Fnendsv. Some­
thing to Grab Four 4:45-TeamBohem1a v. Wood,3 Duds& a Spud 5:30-We Love N.D.-R1ght v. Connylingus & the 
Tongues 6:15-II You Think Student Government . v Househ~d Germs Lyone11 4:00-Wave Your Dick Addis v. Four Play & One Lay 
4:45 -Rand's Tuna F1shers v. How Can You Trust Something. 
5:30-The Carps v. Law School Sucks 
6:15-Flank1n· ld1ots v. 3 Neckerph1hacs & 2 Per­verts 
Lyon112 
4:00-4 Nephews & an Unclev.Zee Men 
4:45-Vicki's Vols. v. Spaghetti With Noodles 
5:30-lndlfa Gandhi & 4 Guys. v. The For81g­
ners 6:15-Phillips v. Amber & the Rest of Napoleon 
Richardson to coach at Arkansas 
Associated Press 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark.-Nolan Rich­
ardson, the most successful coach in 
Tulsa baskt·tball history, was named 
head coach Tue~day at the llniver­
sity ofArkansas. 
Richardson will be the first black 
head coach in any men's sports in 
the history of the Southwest Confer­
ence. 
He takes over for E<.l<.lie Sutton, 
who left Arkansas last week to take 
the coad1ing job at Kentucky. 
Sutton, who coached at Arkansas 
I I years and took the R.tzorbacks to 
nine straight NCAA tournaments, 
resigned to succeed Joe B. Hall as 
head coach at Kentucky. 
Richardson, 4~. compiled a 118­
3 7 record over five yt·ars at Tulsa. 
His teams have been in the NCAA 
tournament three times, the NIT 
twice. 

SAYES BABIES 

COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
I I Attention Sophomores 
The O'Neil Lecture Series Speaker: 
I

WAYNE L. HORVITZ 
From 1977to 1981, Mr. Horvitz was director of the Federal Mediation 
I I Place your ring order before you leave 
and Conciliation Service, appointed by President Jimmy Carter. In 1984, Mr. Horvitz was president of the Industrial Relations 


I
Research Association. Currently, he Is visiting professor at the New 
I for SUMMER VACATION. This will 
York Stale School of Industrial and Labor Relations, Cornell University. Topic: 
I

assure you of having it when you 
New Directions in Industrial Relations 
•

return to school in the fall. I
Date: 
Wednesday, Apri110.1985 
HOURS: 1:00 P.M. to 4:30P.M.
TIME &PLACE: 12:15p.m. 
Monday-Friday
Faculty Seminar Boord Room, Hayes-Healy Building 
All • .-hn.,...U11lllel'llt~ ef N•tr•.O.•• l'•e•lt~ •r•l•ultM. 
IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR 
4:15p.m., lecture and panel discussion Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Room 122) 
I HAMMES NOTRE DAMEBOOKSTORE 
L-­
Faculty, students, and the public are Invited __.. --------------­
I I I 

The Observer/Chaitanya PanchaJ 
Midfielderjo~ Hart ( 17) contributed three goals in last week's Irish lacrosse VI ctory• ot•er Radford College. For more on the team's games over bret1k, see Mike Sullivan's story at right. 
Wednesday, April10, 1985-page 17 
Lacrosse team wins one, loses two against non-conference opponents 
By MIKE SULLIVAN "It's important that we don't win 20), and against Ohio Wesleyan at Sports Writer just because they (Mt. Union) are a home (Apr. 27). 
new progran:, but that we win be­The difficult non-conference Easter on Long Island may beat cause we played well." schedule against more talented Easter in South Bend, but the Notre teams from the East should help
Regardless of whether the Irish Dame lacrosse team found that the prepare the Irish for their main
play well or not, they should have sweetest thing about its trip to New rivals, Denison and Ohio Wesleyan,
few problems with the Raiders of York was that it signalled the end of assuming, of course, that O'Leary's
Coach Dave Goldstein. The teams its non-conference schedule. After a squad is not hit by another rash of
have played twice, with Notre Dame pair ofone-goal losses to Holy Cross injuries and illnesses like that which
mauling Mt. Union both times by and Stony Brook over the weekend, handicapped the team over the past
scores of 28-4 and 1 S-0. like most following a win over Radford last weekend. Eleven Notre Dame
MLA teams, the Raiders are in the Wednesday, the Irish have finished players were operating at less than
midst of building up a respectable 2-5 against non-league opponents. 100 percent, and two were left be­
program. Obviously, though, they still have a lot of building before hind because ofpneumonia.
But when you are part ofa confer­they can compete for the confer­Despite the reduced manpower,ence -in this case, the Midwest ence championship. though, the Irish had chances to winLacrosse Association -games against Today's game should be a both games on the trip, especiallyleague rivals are the ones that really welcome breather for the Irish, who the contest at Stony Brook on Mon­count. So it is no surprise that Notre lost two tough games within three day. When leading scorers BobDame coach Rich O'Leary is looking days. After playing well against Holy Trocchi and Joe Franklin scored ­forward to putting the losses behind Cross in an 8-7 defeat, the team their third and fifth goals,the team as it begins the remainder allowed Stony Brook to erase a respectively, early in the fourthof its MLA schedule with a game three-goal deficit in the final quarter. Notre Dame looked to betoday at 3:30 p.m. on Cartier Field minutes of the fourth quarter before on its way to a I-I trip, but theagainst Mt. Union College. 
dropping a heartbreaking 13-12 Patriots fought back in the final 
"Mt. Union is not supposed to be decision after three overtimes. minutes of regulation to forge a 12­too strong, but it's very important More importantly, though, the 12 tie. that we do well," says O'Leary, who game against the Raiders will be In poor weather conditions, the has seen his team cruise to easy wins Notre-Dame's final tuneup before two teams struggled through the in its first two conference games. the toughest part of the MLA first two four-minute sudden-death "We want to get back on the right schedule starts with games at periods. The Irish had some good track. Wooster (Saturday), Denison (Apr. scoring chances in the first 

overtime, but one shot missed the goal completely, while another hit the post and bounced away. 
Then, with less than two minutes left in the third overtime, two Notre Dame players were whistled for slashing penalties, giving Stony Brook a two-man advantage .. The Patriots' Chris Scaduto put an end to the game with I: I 7 left in the extra period. 
"We probably should've been a little be~tter," said O'Leary, "but they played tough and stayed with us. When we were up, I2-9. they did a good job creating unsettled situa­tions and scoring on them." 
As tight as the Stony Brook game was, though, the game against Holy Cross was even more hard-fought as the teams traded the lead back and forth for most ofthe game. Franklin's 
l

second goal ofthe day tied the score at five in the third quarter, and the score remained deadlocked until the Crusaders retook the lead as time ran out in the quarter. 
Holy Cross finally took control 
I

early in the final quarter by scoring two unanswered goals to move out to an 8-5 lead. The Irish did fight back and moved to within one, 8-7, 
j

on John McLachlan's goal with 3:32 remaining, but they could not capi­talize in the final three minutes. 
"We had some good opporUJni­ties in the last minutes to tie it up, but we didn't take advantage of them," said O'Leary. "Our guys played well in the end, but in the third quarter and first five minutes of the fourth we looked very bad. I think the illnesses took their toll, be­cause we were sluggish and slow, and they took advantage. 
"Still, I was pretty happy because it was a game where we needed to be intense for the whole game and we were." 
Despite the losses, though, the week was not all bad as the Irish won their seventh straight home game last W cdnesday by rolling to an I1-7 victory over Radford. It was a six­goal explosion in the first quarter that put the game out of reach early
Ifyou've been wantmg the American can help in a lot of ways as you graduate. 
and allowed Notre Dame to coast 
Express" Card for some t1me. th1s ts some The Card can help you be ready for busi­
through the final three quarters.
time to apply ness. It's a must for travel to meetmgs and 
IRISH ITEMS -As usual, Trocchi
Because if you're a senior, all you need entertammq. And to entertain yourself, 
and Franklin provided most of the
is to accept a $10,000 career-oriented job. you can USe It to buy a neW wardrobe for 
Irish scoring punch. Trocchi had
That's it No strings No gimmtcks. work or a new stereo. 
nine goals and three assists in the 
(And even 1f you don't have a JOb nght The Card can also help you establish 
three games, while Franklin added 
now. don't worry. This offer is still good for your credtt history. which can help in 
I 0 goals and four assists. Midfielder 
12 months after you graduate ) Why iS your future. 
Joe Hart had a good game against
American Express making the Card a So calll-800-528-4800 and ask tb have 

Radford, scoring three goals, while j
a Spectal Student Application sentlittle easier for seniors to get? 
Tom Grote chipped in three goals 
~ 

to you. Or look for one on campus Well, to put it simply, we be­
and two assists over the break. . . . 4
The American Express' Card.
lieve in your future And thts is 
Goalie Rob Simpson stopped 35 j
Don't leave school without it.sM
a good time to show it-for we 
shots while playing the entire Holy Cross game and splitting time with Matt McQuillan ( 1 7 saves) in the 
l 

other two. 


The Observer Wednesday, April 1 1985-page 18 
Crenshaw will try to defend Master title 
Associated Press "I do 't want to blame anything on the d vorce. I don't think I should AUGUSTA, Ga.-The pressure's off do that. But I'm a vt~ry emotional 
for Ben Crenshaw. person. t hit me very hard. I had to Masters week is here. reassess things, myself, my life," he He's been waiting for it for a year, said. 
coming to defend his cherished title He pi ycd infrequently, and with with his game in tatters, the product indiffcre t success, tollowing the of self-imposed pressure and per­Masters. He went home last fall and. sonal problems. alone, b oodcd. He lost weight to 
"lberc hasn't been a day go by the poin that he appeared gaunt. that I haven't thought about the 
In nin Marts this season, he failedMasters," said Crenshaw, who will to quali for the final two rounds sixdefend his title this week in the 49th times. e's won $1 I,810 for thegathering ofgolfs elite on the rolling year. H hasn't been a factor in thehills ofAugusta National. 

chase f< r a tournament title sinceA student and recognized author­

last Ma . He went from seventh in

ity on the history ofgolf, the lore and the To r's putting statistics tolegends of the game, Crenshaw wJ.s, 
I 27th.

quite possibly, the most ap­"I've ccn putting pressure on -preciative winner ever produced by myself t > perform. People, friends.
the Masters. 
fans, ha e expected me to play bet­

It was, he said, a dream come true. 
ter. Tha s pressure, too," he said.

But, later in the year it assumed nightmarish proportions when an A recc t, 2-week break from com­amicable divorce turned petition "helped me get things acrimonious. sorted o t. 
"I went from the absolutely high­"I'm a little more settled now. I 
7-13-1. For more on the Irish fortunes, see Kevin est emotional level of my life to the feel bett ·r about things in my own 
Herbert's story• below. lowest," Crenshaw said. mind," h said. 

Irish baseball team encounters hard times over pas week 
By KEVIN HERBERT 

If Notre Dame had been able to for the Irish occurred in the second Sunday, the Irish played their final lieve the team's average is 
Sports Writer 

capitalize on their numerous oppor· game of the double-header against games of the week, as they con­00. We just have not been tunities in the first game, the Irish Wisconsin Saturday. cluded their four-game stint with able to t the key hit." lbe Notre Dame men's baseball 
would have had a whitewash. In­In the game, freshm9n pitcher the Badgers. Notre Dame's one run One other problem which team did not fare too well this past 
stead the game was very close, as Kevin Chenail turned in seven in­"lossitis" continued in the opener as plagued the Irish throughout break week -winning two, losing five and 
evidenced by the final score of 3-2. nings of ncar perfect hurling as he it was downed 6-5 in extra innings. was a br akdown in their defense. 
tying one, bringing their season "We left too many men on base. allowed only three hits and one run. " It is very difficult to win when

In the second game ofthe twinbill
ledger to 7-13-1. 

We had the opportunities to score Chcnail struck out eight batters over you arc giving the opposition four 'Jhc action began Wednesday, 
Notre Dame played yet another
but we just did not cash in," com­his seven innings. The 7-1 Irish vic­and five >uts," commented Gallo. when the Irish squared off against game. one however,
close This

mented head baseball coach Larry tory broke a three-game losing Notre Dame will face Northwes­Northwestern, last year's runnerup 
would go no further than the eighth
Gallo on the Irish double-header streak and gave Notre Dame a 7-12 tern agai today. The Irish will bringin the Big Ten. In the first game of 
inning, as the game was called be­
against the Spartans. record. their 7·13-1 record and two of the the twinbill Notre Dame gave up 
cause of darkness with the score
'·Brad Cross pitched a great game, Gallo later praised Chcnail's per­Midwest ·rn City C~>nfercnce's best eight runs, the most the team would 
deadlocked at 15.

he deserved a win." formance. hitters nto today's action. Mike allow in any of its losses throughout 
In the second game of the twin· "He turned in one of the best Gallo was displeased with his Trudeau is currently the MCC's the week. l :nfortunately for the 
bill, Notre Dame lost again by one pitching performances that I have team's output against Wisconsin. leading itter with a .400 average.Irish, their offense was not up to the 
run-rhis time by the score of6-5. seen around here in a long time. He "We should not have lost a game His tea mate Jack Moran is cur­task, as Notre Dame was defeated in 
'Jbe Irish had Good Friday off, but will be seeing a lot more action in to Wisconsin -it should have been a rently in third place, hitting at a .378 the first game of the double-header, 
returned to the diamond 8-3. 
Saturdwhcn they opened a four­game homcstand against the Wis­
In the second game, Notre Dame 
consin Badgers.
pitcher Dan Sacchini got off to a In the first game of Saturday's
shaky start, but recovered and was double-header Notre Dame led 6-2
saved by the offense. Sacchini gave going into the last inning. However, up five runs in the victory while the the Badgers fought back with a five­

Vocation Retreat
offense provided him with eleven run seventh to take the lead 7-6. In

big runs. 'lbc final was Notre Dame where is the Lord leading you? ... a chance to explor 
the bottom half of the inning the1 I, Northwestern "i. 

as a sister ofthe Holy Cross.~
Irish loaded the bases, putting them 

On 'Thursday the Irish suffered one hit away from victory with only 
April 19and April 20 
two tough losses at the hands ofMic­one out. 
(7 pm. Friday to 7pm. Saturday)
higan State. In the first game, Brad Again though, Notre Dame lacked Cross pitched a very good game, but that timely hit which would have Mary's SoUtade the offense could not bring home given it the win. The next batter hit 
St. Mary's College campus ... it'sfree! 
enough runs to give him a victory, into a double-play, and the Irish lost and the Irish lost 3-2. a heartbreaker, 7-6. The loss marked to register, call Sr. PatMcCabe. C.S.C. 284-4466 '!be cancer that haunted the Irish the third consecutive game that ~~~ 
over spring break returned on Notre Dame was defeated by one Thursday to once again plague run. Notre Dame. '!bat cancer's name is a What may have been the brighest lack of timely hitting. spot of the eight game homestand 
............................. 
ClubsIOrganizations Now is the time for aU ClubsIOrganizations to: 
~------Wednesday, AprillO -------, Tonight! 9-close 
1. Registerfor the 85-86 Academic Year
90¢ Canadian Imports 
2. 
Request StudentActivity funding 

3. 
Apply for a Football concession stand 


Thursday, Aprilll 9-close 
Cheers 'n Beers/Blues 'n Booze 80¢ 14oz. BUDS all night 
All forms are avaUable in the Student Activi­ties Office, 1st floor of Lafortune. Deadline is Monday, April15, 1985• 
............................. 


~c:tcJlCl~-------------------------------w_e_d_ne_s_da_y_,A_p_ril_l_o,_l_98-5---pa_g_e_19 
Bloom County 
IM 
r)()fN/N(J l{ff\ Lff(; 

ONfJ POESN'T fli5CIJ5~ OPUS ... 
t.OV6 l ROMAN(£ IS 
LET'S PISCUSS 
Nor A flfffffTf l YOU 

THIS ... 9150/55 
JUSf FWW WI1H IT liNt? HOPf fOR THEI 8f3Sfl OKAY~. 
I 

Zeto 


T~ ZElO ••• HEY ~ t:>E:!L 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Zhlvago's love 5 Stllleranc::­
10 Head covering 13 Musical work 14 Tapestry 15 Br. composer 16 Chain part 17 Certalr. 
pattern 19-Oakle) 21 -pie (a snap) 22 Gandhi lane! 25 Sea birc. 26 Tintinnabu· 
latlor. 29 RigiCI 32 Future chick 33 Expia\f. 35 Kind of strike 37 Lily plar.~ 39 Modih· 41 Give up lana 42 Source 44 Expunge 46 Animal doc 47 Weasel's 
COUSil1 49 Profiteer< 51 TV's Charlottt 
and familv 8 Black-marke::' 53 Tire pattern civet 54 Free frorr 9 Maintain 
erro:· · 0 Helen of­58 Run of· · 1 Handle 61 Upside dowr> · 2 Disorde• 64 Don't give-· 5 Old lace 65 Lisl partne! 66 Dickinso~ 18 Walking sticks 
of film;, :!0 Icelandic 67 Bird beak par. literary wori: 68 Hirt and Capp :!3 Jo• 69 Halt:. !4 Positive pole 70 Noblet·•. !6 Unhearing 
ctar, !7 Frozen abode ZB GrowlsDowr.. JO Dock workers 1 Faiana o' J1 Duck song J4 Solar-lunar 2 You can hear time differ· 
-drot:: entia I 3 Endins; 36 Court items 4 Requesting 38 Commit 5 Call to an 40 Ivan or Peter 
unknown 43 Pathetic 6 Stray 45 Robt.­7 Melody 48 Lariats 

Wednesday's Solution 
ALPSIPOSESiAPPT ~­HERE AVA N Til R A R A r A N E T R E F L E C T I 0 N (
I.ISOT~,r~RENT·~
IIW E A S E L P L A S T E R1 ~ IIA N G~~~ E P I P I E C E , 11111R~~TiEw.i•SA VAN T.RT S·~ 
1~ 0 E S E R T I 0 N 2 ACRE ANTLER•DAH~ CLEF S~tt'R~1t E t C 0 S I N~H E A R T Y ~ 
• s 0 N A R ·t.~ ~ IL I N E • ~ 
D EL EIG A T I 0 N D I N E ~ 
I T E R S A L A D E E N S ~ TOSS EMERY DRAT 1 f 
4/10/85 

50 Royalabode 57 Therefore 52 Feat 59 Role 54-boy! 60 Dueling weapon 55 Helb. 62 Bigwig 56 NCOs 63 Affirmative 
.. NOTlirE DAME' COLLEGIATE JAZZFESTIVAL
ic 
APRIL 12: 7:30-?? ($5)
ic 
APRIL 13: 1 :00-4:30 ($3)
~ 
7:30-?? ($4)
ic 
ic Judges Jam: (Fri) Guest Band: (Sat) 
ic 
Jimmy Heath
ic 
United States Airforce
Stanley Cowell ~ "Airmen of Note" 
All Session Pass-$8 

Dave Hollan :I 
Where: Stepan Center*
ic Butch Miles 
Tickets: at door * 
Gene Berton rini
• 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
1Hf IJ6lY 71(1/TH 151HATYOU THINK FM tHINKING flO YOU. 
Kevin Walsh 


•4:45 
p.m.-General Meeting, Environmental Concerns Organization, Elections & Film, Li­brary of esc. 

•
7 p.m. -Presentation forJuniors, "Filling Out Your Profile Form For On-Campus Inter­views," Kitty Arnold, Director, Career & Placement Services, Room 122 Hayes Healy. 


•Bp.m.-RASTAMeeting,CSC-Coffeehouse. 
•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Benjamin Hooks, Executive Director of the NAACP, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board & Black Cultural Arts Festival, Free. 

•9-9:30p.m. 
-Radio Call-inShow, "Campus Perspective," jeff Blumb, Bookstore Basket­ball Commissioner, WVFI AM-64. 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
2  Newswatch 28  
6:30p.m.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
28  ABC World News Tonight  
7:00p.m.  16  M0 A0 S0 H  
22  Three's Company  
28  Jeopardy  
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP in Cinctnnati  
28  Wheel pfFortune  
8:00p.m.  16  Highway to Heaven  
22  Double Dare  
28  Fall Guy  


'"'MO'rCh of Dimes
'-Jt' --iiBIRTH DEFEClS FOUNDATION.Iilillil 
•9 p.m. -Jazz at the Nazz, Notre Dame Jazz Band, The Nazz, Basement of LaFortune, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Free. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Stir fry chicken and vegetables Liver and onions Cheese and vegetable pot pie 
Saint Mary's Baked ham Italian sausage sandwich 
Potato pancakes  
Beefstroganoff  
9:00p.m.  16  Facts ofLife  
22  Movie ­Stark  
28  Dynasty  
9:30p.m.  16  Sara  
!O:OOp.m.  16  St. Elsewhere  
28  Hotel  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Magnum/Movie  
28  ABC News Nightline  
!2:00a.m.  28  Love Connection  
!2:30a.m.  16  Late Night With David Letterman  
2:00a.m.  22  Nightwatch  

*
*
*
*
* 
* * * * 
* 
THE ND STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD AND THE BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL present 
Dr. Benjamin Hooks 
Executive Director ofthe NAACP 
Wednesday, Aprill0, in the LIBRARY AUDITORIUM at 8:00pm. Reception to follow. 

4 
~ 
4 
~ 
~ 
4 
J 
~ 

S~orts 

-~--------------------------, 
Wednesday, Apr 
USFL sho to opt for '' 
Chuck Freeby 
lnsh Items 

Dan O'Donnell of Donkey Hodte and the One­Armed Bandits opened Bookstore XIV yesterday, losing to Revenge of the Fun Bunch in the Hall of Famegame bya score of21-8, butproviding excite­ment along the way. For more on the game, see Brian McCarthy's story below. 
Entertaining Hall of Fame game kicks off Bookstore XIV tourney 
_ By BRIAN McCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
Bookstore XIV officially began last evening with the playing of the Hall of Fame Game, which traditionally features one of the 16 seeded teams versus one of the more comical entries in the tournament. 
lbis year's contest pitted number­one seed Revenge of the Fun Bunch against Donkey Hodie and the One­Armed Bandits in a game eventually won by Revenge of the Fun Bunch by a score of Z.l-8. 
As game time approached, the crowd eagerly awaited the arrival of Donkey Hodie after the word spread that one ofthe team members would actually play the game while riding a donkey. 
Eventually a van pulled onto the court with a banner hanging from the side reading "The One-Armed Bandits." As the rear door opened smoke came billowing out and four cigar-smoking bandits emerged, ac­companied by four outrageously dressed "ladies of the evening." Next, Kevin Barrett, alias Donkey Bodie, broke through the crowd high atop his donkey. 
The donkey made his presence felt before the start of the game by depositing a load of manure on the 
Bookstore @-",\ / / XIV 
.-;2 \ / 
'I 

court. The bandits were prepared and quickly scooped up the manure and dumped it into a trash can as those downwind quickly backed away. 
The One-Armed Bandits lived up to their name by beginning the game with one arm tied behind their backs. Steve Treacy of Fun Bunch scored the first basket, but Barrett made use of his distinct height ad­vantage while sitting on the donkey and tied the game. 
Despite having to play against a donkey, Fun Bunch probably still had a size advantage with a frontline of6-S, 250 pound Greg Dingens; his 6-6, 240 pound brother Matt, and 6­7, 2SO pound Tom Rehder. As this size began to overwhelm Donkey Hodie and his Bandit friends, their lady companions came to the res­cue. Calling themselves The Seducers, Christina Weinmann, Clare Badger, Patti Gallagher and Regina Degnan charged on the court and embraced and kissed the Fun Bunch players, allowing the Bandits' Dan O'Donnell to score. 
Revenge of the Fun Bunch, led by two slam dunks by Rehder, managed to fend off The Seducers and take an 1 1-4 halftime lead. 
Early in the second half, an im­migration officer emerged from the 
see BOOKSTORE, page 16 
lrish accomplish what is needed in first half of spring football practice 
By MARlY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
Head Coach Gerry Faust and the Notre Dame football team have played it real cool so far on the spring season. This is not because of the frigid temperatures which have characterized the Irish practice ses­sions, but rather because of the new, slower-moving approach to the spring workouts which Faust is employing this year. 
Even with the lesser number of formations, and the injuries that have kept many of the projected starters out of action Faust looks back on the progress of the first half of the spring, which concluded offi­cially with last Wednesday's scrimmage. with a calm satisfaction. 
"I'm really pleased with the team's progress so far this spring," says Faust. "We are pretty much on schedule as far as what we want to accomplish, although we're banged up more than Ihoped we would be." 
In the past, the Irish have worked on everything, only to see it go for naught when key Irish players suf­fered injuries. 'Ibis year, however, Faust changed his mind when he saw a chilling pre-season injury list that included many of his projected starters for the fall season. Thus, the decision was made to go easy this spring, and to concentrate to a greater degree on the basic fun­damentals. 
"We've moved a lot faster in the past in terms of putting things in," says Faust. "This spring we're mainly interested in the aggresiveness, the hitting, the execution." 
The two Irish scrimmages so far this spring were positive indicators 
Spring Football 
~·as 

for Faust, who saw good hitting in the first scrimmage and some strong offensive line movement to go with the continued agressive tackling in Wednesday's practice. 
'Jbe offensive line is one ofseveral key areas for the Irish this spring, as they attempt to fill the holes left be­hind by graduating seniors Mike Kel­ley (center) and Larry Williams (guard). Injuries, however, have impeded the progress of the line, as tackles Shawn Heffern and Tom Doerger, as well as guard John Askin have been kept out of practice with nagging ailments. Center Ron Plantz, meanwhile, added his name to that list when he hurt his knee in Wed­nesday's scrimmage. 
Nevertheless, the ftfth-year Irish mentor was pleased with the play of his makeshift line. 
"The two things that impressed me most about (Wednesday's) scrimmage were the hitting and the play ofthe offensive line," said Faust. "We were missing Doerger, Plantz, Heffern and Askin, but the offensive line still came off the ball well." 
Faust also seemed pleased with the play of his defense against the option offense. The Irish have run out of the option formation often this spring for the benefit of the defense, who will see the formation often this season in their opponents' attacks. 
"We've run a lot of options," ad­mits Faust. "And I think the defense, on the whole, has responded well. This week we'll work from the wishbone formation, predominantly for the benefit of the defense." 
Another area of concern for the Irish coaching staff this spring has been the back-up quarterback slot. 
see FOOTBALL, page 15 
110, 1985-page 20 
d decide 
o more'' 


Hello again, everybody! 
A friend ofmine gave up watching he USFL for Lent, which to me 
is like giving up visits to Iran or to th dentist. Now that the Lenten 
season has passed, it will be interesti to see ifhe ever goes back to 
watching the league, or if he becom s like so many other football 
fans and allows the USFL to toil in obs urity. 
For that matter, if he's going to w tch, he had better do it soon, 
because the USFL seems to be on the erge of"The Fall ofthe House 
ofUsher." Harry Usher, that is. Ifthat arne doesn't sound familiar to 
you, don't worry about it, because mo t figures in the USFL are candi­
dates for American Express card co mercials. Nevertheless, Harry 
Usher is the commissioner of the le e, and he has undertaken a 
task that would give Hercules a herni 
The USFL suffers from many thing: not the lca-;t of which is the 
fact that many people seem to for et about its existence. The 
massive Los Angeles Coliseum, with its 90,000 seats, looks rather 
empty when only 10,000 people pa to see the L.A. Express play. 
Considreing the fact that the Cubs ha been averaging nearly 8,000 
fans for their exhibition games at the o Ho Kam Park in Mesa, Ariz., 
perhaps the Express should consider oving to some rather unpop­
ulated site such as Death Valley. 
Ofcourse, the Cubs were made po ular nationwide by television 
last season, and, unfortunately, the s me has not held true for the 
USFL. Despite the fact that its first com issioner, Chet Simmons, was 
one of the founders of ESPN and a vet ran television executive, the 
USFL has failed miserably in the telev sion ratings. With an average 
rating of6.9 this year, the USFL ranks s >mewhere between static and 
tests and the Emergency Broadcast Sy ·tern in viewer popularity. 
Another problem for the league ste s from the fact that the USFL 
swallows up big names every year i 1 its draft, only to see them 
flounder on teams going nowhere. Fo instance, for the week ending 
April I, the USFL Player ofthe Week w not Doug Flu tie or Herschel 
Walker or Brian Sipe. It was (hang on o your seats, folks) the legen­
dary Mike Lush. Yes, Mike Lush. Now ou and I both know the only 
way this guy ever is going to get to the ro Football Hall ofFame is to 
buy a ticket, but that doesn't mean he isn't one of the top players in 
theUSFL. 

That's becasue for every Doug Flu ie in the l!SFL, there are 20 
Mike Lushes. I did some heavy researc and found a USFL press guide 
from last season's L.A. Express and ound listed under each op­
ponent's name the top player for the am. Of course, you've heard 
of Calvin Murray, Reggie Collier, Irv atman, Kelly Kirchbaum and 
LaRue Harrington. You haven't? Neit er have I, and I don't really 
care to hear of them, either. 
But the players aren't the worst p rt of the problem for Harry Usher. Usher has to deal with owners ch as Donald Trump in New Jersey, who obviously is working wit an open mind, because you can feel the draft from here. Trump is the man who is paying Doug Flutie over $92,222 per game for the ext five years. That's a lot of money, and Trump finally ha-; realized e may not be able to pay that salary and keep his children at the sam time, so he is asking for help from the other owners to pay Flu tie's ontract. That's like me going out and buying a 1985 Rolls Royce wh n I can afford only a 1972 VW Beetle and asking the rest of the stude t body to make up the differ­ence. Trump's plan probably will mee with the same results. 
Ifthere is anybody gaining anything rom the USFL, it's the airlines and the moving van companies, who onstantly have to ship teams to different cities each season. The Bos on Breakers of 1983 became the New Orleans Breakers of 1984 a d currently are the Portland Breakers. If fans want to see the defe ding champion Philadelphia Stars play a home game this year, the have to move to Baltimore. One year, the Chicago Blitz became t e Arizona Wranglers and the Arizona Wranglers became the Chica > Blitz. An optimist is a USFL fan who buys tickets for next season. 
Speaking ofseasons, the USFL doesn t even know which one they will be playing in next year. For the st three years, the lJSFL has tried to play in the spring, and it has be n failing miserably. Now the USFL wants to play in the fall, but the le gue can'tget anybody to give it a new television contract, which oves that some people still learn from their mistakes. So now Us er has to decide whether to continue playing in the spring or in th fall or not at alL 
Ifthe USFL sticks to its plan to move o the fall, it will have a layoff of 13 months, which should keep it · fresh in the minds of most Americans as last year's Democratic Pr sidential primary candidates. Also, by waiting until the fall, the USFL would be competing against the NFL, which is like Utica competing with New York City. Thus, it appears the fall isn't exactly a viable alt ·rrnative. 
The best alternative may be the ]a<;t hoice of"not at all." I'm sure Harry Usher had a nice job before joi ing Peter Ueberroth on the 
L.A. Olympic Committee, where he se ed prior to joining the USFL. I'm also sure that Usher would be muc better off if he went back to that job. Letting the USFL die would e an enlarged form of eut­hanasia, and it would be the best thing arry Usher could do for the league and for the fans. 
Pick ofthe Week .. Instead of was ing your time with the USFL this week, why not take in some wome 's tennis action. Notre Dame Coach Sharon Petro's team is looking fo a national title this year, and the Irish have been playing some exci ing matches this spring. An­other one is on tap for April I 6, whe the Irish close their home season by entertaining Northwestern a 3 p.m. at the Courtney Ten­nis Center. 





