___, _____ 
VOl. XIX, NO. 76 
Other schools look to ND when making own policies 
By MARK DILLON 
Staffreporter 
Notre Dame's alcohol'policy ap­pears to be spreading. 
Father David Tyson, vice presi­dent for student affairs and Father William Beauchamp, executive vice president, told the Board ofTrustees at a meeting held last month that other colleges and universities have expressed an interest in the Notre Dame Alcohol Policy. 
Beauchamp said, "Between 1 5 and 20 schools have inquired about our policy". Adding, "Schools began inquiring last summer before the im­plementation of the Notre Dame policy". 
The University ofCalifornia at Los Angeles requested a copy of the policy to assist in the formulation of a policy for its fraternaties. 
Saint Mary's College of Winona, Minnesota also studied the Notre Dame policy. Phil Shoemaker, vice president for student development 
see POLICY, page 3 
Martin Luther King -page 5 


the indepemknt student newspaper serving notre Jame and saint mary's MONDAY,JANUARY 21,1984 

Bitter cold sweeps Indiana and nation 


Speclal to lhe Observer 
It was very, very cold this weekend, and no one who keeps records of such things can remem­ber a more bitter winter storm in Indiana's history. 
A blast of arctic air, dubbed an "Alberta Clipper" by the National Weather Service, unleashed severe cold and high winds which teamed up to cause many discomforts but few major injuries across the state. 
Yesterday's low in South Bend was 21 degrees below zero, re­corded at 9 and 10 a.m. Yesterday's high was 7 below, recorded shortly after midnight and at 10 p.m. last night. 
The wind-chill index yesterday morning was about 70 degrees below zero. The wind-chill index shortly after midnight yesterday was about 55 degrees below zero. 
In Kokomo, Ind., where it hit 26 below zero at 6:30 a.m. yesterday, it was the coldest recorded tempera­ture since records were started in 1892. 
A warming trend is expected this week. Highs today should reach 5 degrees above zero, according to weather serviCe forecaster Tom Ar­nold ofSouth Bend. 
Wind chill temperatures today will be about 30 degrees below zero. 
Low tonight is forecast to be zero, and highs tomorrow should be about 20. "It looks like a gradual moderation of temperature day by day," said Indianapolis forecaster Paul Henderickson. "By the middle of the week, about Wednesday, the highs should be back into the mid­20s."" 

Th~-Alberta Clipper also dumped . I about six inches of snow on Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. But the winds were mostly from the west, 1 causing the worst lake-effect snow to pass over Michigan. ~ 
1
"If the winds had been from the 

i
northwest (directly across and down Lake Michigan), we would have been buried," Arnold said. 
There was a 70 percent chance of more snow tonight and tomorrow, but most of the new snow is ex­pected closest to Lake Michigan. 
Even with the wind and cold, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents tried desperately not to let the Alberta Clipper cramp their style. 
see COLD, page 3 

Ronald Reagan takes oath for 2nd term in White House 
Associated Press best of my ability, preserve, begun Sunday even if he had Asked what he hopes for in a last week to admit three reporters, 
protect and defend the Constitu­postponed his oath to await the second term, Reagan said, "Well, I three news photographers and two 
WASHINGTON -Ronald Wilson tion of the United States, so help public ceremony todav. hope it's a little warmer." television camera crews whose Reagan, standing on the landing of me God." The guests listened to the U.S. Asked ifit would be different the pictures were carried live by the the White House grand staircase, When Reagan finished, Burger Army chorus sing the hymn second time around, Reagan, who four major television networks. swore the presidential oath for a said,. "Congratulations, sir." The "America" before adjourning to a is only the 14th American presi­The guest list was put at "965 second term yesterday in front of President kissed First Lady Nancy reception. Reagan and Bush dent to have been re-elected, and one-half' by White House 96 guests and a national television Reagan. stepped outside, where the wind­replied: "It always is, isn't it?" spokeswoman Sheila Tate, who audience. Outside, icy winds It isn't the oath that made chill factor was minus-22 degrees The White House had consid­counted Reagan's 20-month-old foretold the rigors of today's out­Reagan the president; the Consti­Farenheit, to pose for pictures -ered making yesterday's oath­granddaughter Ashley as the half. door ceremony when Reagan tution dictates that the president's without overcoats -and answer a taking a private affair, as Dwight Michael Deaver, a longtime reenacts his swearing-in with term ends at noon onjan. 20, when few questions from reporters Eisenhower's was in 1957, the last Reagan aide and confidant who public pomp and a declaration of his successor's begins. Thus, before ,joining their guests a few time Inauguration Day fell on a planned the four days of inaugural "American renewal." Reagan's second term would have moments later. Sunday. But it was decided early festivities before coming down 
The Republic's 50th Inaugura­with the flu, left his sickbed to at­tion was the sixth to fall on a Sun­tend the ceremony. day. Tradition held that the Thirty-three members of the

Healy invited, but skips inaugural 
pageantry would come Monday, presidential and vice presidential and allowed the president to relax 
families sat in the first tluee rows. and watch the Super Bowl with By MIRIAM HILL Finamore and Stephanie Mole, Other guests included Reagan's 100 million other Americans. SeniorStaffReporter who were fundraising chairmen of top staffmembers, the Cabinet, Re­
~ 

It was 9 degrees outside when the Reagan-Bush campaign at publican and Democratic congres­Reagan took his oath in the red­Notre Dame senior Bill Healy Notre Dame. sional leaders and Gen. George carpeted elegance ofthe executive could have spent his 21st birthday Because ofhis activity in the Re­Vessey, chairman of the joint mansion's State Floor. Forecasters at President Reagan's inauguration publican party, both CBS News and Chiefs of Staff. Most brought their were warning parade-goers that as an invited guest. the Washington Post wanted to in­wives or husbands. today could be the coldest public As chairman of the Reagan-Bush terview Healy as part ofstories on Four years ago, it was 56 degrees inaugural in history. campaign at Notre Dame, Healy the strong support President on one of the balmiest inaugurals 
Presidential spokesman Larry received an invitation to the in­Reagan received from young ever. Speakes said today's inaugural auguration of Ronald Reagan and people during the election. This time, officials were speech · to be delivered from the George Bush. Healy believes American youth prepared for a crowd of 140,000 to West Front of the Capitol-would He was unable to attend the gala voted for Reagan because "young gather at the Capitol to watch the look forward to "an American celebration due to prior commit­people today are more ambitious re-enactment today and perhaps renewal, continuing America's ments and lack offunds. (than in former years). They want 200,000 more to line the parade proud and revolutionary tradi­"I think it was a great honor that to get out ofcollege and get a good route down Pennsylvania Avenue tion." I got invited to it. I was real disap­job, and Reagan is more in line to the White House. However, a 
Vice President George Bush was pointed that I couldn't go," Healy with these ambitions." forecast of temperatures in the sworn in a minute before Reagan, said. Reagan and the Republicans are teens, coupled with high winds, with his friend, retired Supreme He was also invited to the Youth "courting youths across the threatened to hold down the size
Bill Healy 

Court Justice Potter Stewart, re­Leadership Forum, the National country" in order to build strong of the crowds. turning from New Hampshire to Pageant of Young Americans, a have been to be at that ball (for support for the Republican Party, Speakes said Reagan asked the administer the oath. concert featuring jerry Lee Lewis young Americans) because Presi­Healy told the Washington Post. inaugural committee yesterday 
Chiefjustice Warren Burger ad­and Kool and the Gang, the In­dent Reagan has promised he will As a transfer student to Notre morning to cancel a scheduled ministered the oath to Reagan, augural Ball for Young Americans, be there. I would have l1ked to con­Dame from Northern Illinois Uni­youth pageant outside the jeffer­who said: "!, Ronald Reagan, do and many other events designed to gratulate him and thank him for all versity? Healy first became inter­son Memorial "knowing that he solemnly swear that I will faithfully appeal to the young attending the he's done for the country," Heo:ly ested in politics when he worked would be out there only a few execute the Office of President of inauguration. said. minutes but that others would be the United States, and will to the "The best thing for me would He gave the invitation to Paul see HEALY, page 3 out for hours" in the cold. 
,~~~~·-~~-~~-~­
f The Observer Monday,January 21, 1984-page 2 

Noble dream kept alive through federal holiday 

, 
I ~ 
! ' 
r 
t 
In Brief '\ 
The University ofIowa student senate is encour­aging campus programmers not to book entertainers who have per­formed in South Africa. lbe senate passed a resolution endorsing a 1983 United Nations boycott of performers, such as Barry Manilow, Kenny Rogers, and the Beach Boys, who have played for segregated audiences in South Africa. lbe final decision on campus concerts is up to two separate programming boards. -The Observer 
A journal for Italian scholars has been 
founded at Notre Dame. Edited by Dino S. Cervigni, associate profes­sor of modern and classical languages at Notre Dame, the annual journal, Annal/ d'Jtalianistica, (Italian Studies Yearbook), is pub­lished by the University's Department of Modern and Classical Lan­guages and distributed by the University of Notre Dame Press. -The Obsen1er 
Chairman of the Metallurgical Engineering 
and Materials Science Department, Gordon Sargent, was installed as a Fellow of American Society for Metals during the ASM's recent Metals Congress. The ASM established the honor offellow to provide recognition to membersfor their contributions in the fields ofmetals and materials and to develop a broadly based forum for technical and professional leaders to serve as advisors to the society. -The Observer 
JohnM. Duggan,President ofSaint Mary's College will serve as Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Relationship of the College Scholarship Service ( CSS) to the College Board.He will chair a panel ofeducators from across the country who will examine the role of the College Scholarship Service in the future. Founded in 1954 by a group ofNew England college presidents, the CSS has seen the growth of student aid dollars go from zero to S16 billion. State aid programs now number 50. TheCollege Scholarship Service pro­vides programs and services to students, schools and colleges to assure that financial aid is distributed in fair and effective ways. ·The Observer 
Indiana state Sen. Edward A. Pease is spreading the word among his colleagues: don't dangle a participle and strike "heretofore." Pease has been known to take a red pencil to offending bills, just as he does to compositions by his freshmen students at Indiana State University. The 33-year-old attorney, who is working on a master's degree in English, has become the unofficial gram­marian of the Indiana Senate. He rewrites bills in committee to cor­rect grammatical flaws and occasionally takes the Senate floor to offer amendments that couch bills in clearer terms. Pease said words such as "heretofore" and "hereinafter" -staples of traditional legal writing -should be banished from the legislative vocabulary. "We have a tendency in the Legislature to be verbose. It doesn't need to be that way," said Pease. "It's important in any free society that the electorate understands its own laws. -AP 
Of Interest 
Spring break trips in Florida will be the topic of an inti:>rmational meeting and slide show presentation this evening at 7 in Lafortune's New Orleans Room. Dr. Kathleen Sullivan, a 1978 graduate ofNotre Dame, who is currently teaching at the University of Miami, will be conduct the presentation. -The Observer 

Weather 

Real serious coldtoday with a 5o percent chance of light snow today, and windy with a high around S above. Mostly cloudy and not as cold tonight and tomorrow with a chance of snow flurries and a low around zero. High tomorrow around 20. A chance of snow lbursday and Friday with a high across the state 

in the mid 20s and a low in the teens. -AP 
Production Consultant .................... Steve 
The Observer 
Design Editor ................................ Troy Illig 
Design Assistant .................. Andi Schnuck The Observer (USPS ~99 2-4000) is Typese/lers. Tracy Bringardner and Mary 
published Monday through Friday and 
Ellen Harrington on home football Saturdays, except News Edltor ............................ )ohn Mennell during exam and vacation period>. The Copy Edltor ............................... john Heasly Observer is published by the studenL' of Sports Copy Editor .............. Marc Ramirez the Univc:rsity of Notre Dame and Saint Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Dave Grote Mary's College:. Subscriptions may be: VIewpoint Layout................ Kevin Becker purchased for S30 pc:r year ( S20 per sc:­Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy mc:ster) hy writing The Observer, P.O. Features Layout .................... Chris Bowler Box Q, Noire Dame, Indiana 46~~6. ND Day Editor ........................... Miriam Hill 
The Observer is a member of The Ad Design ........................ Suzanne La Croix Associated Press. Ali rc:productlon Pbotograpber ............................ Pete Lache> right' arc: rc:sc:rvc:d. 
lbere will be no mail delivered nextJan. 15. 

The nation will be commemorating the birth of an American who never was elected to public office. Other than Martin Luther King Jr., George Washington is the only American recognized by a federal holiday. 
On this sensitive issue, former Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker declared that the Senate vote supporting Martin Luther King day was "proof positive that we in­tend to acknowledge and celebrate the nobility of our citizens." 
Baker's.is an ironic epitaph. Obviously Martin Luther KingJr. was not a member of the noble class. In fact, his life was a campaign against the medieval attitudes and laws of the American nobility. In his fights for civil rights and peace and against poverty; however, King ful­filled Webster's first definition of nobility for he both exhibited a magnaminous spirit and commanded moral worth and excellence. 
The execution of his philosophy through his coura­geous spirit is what this holiday is commemorating, besides honoring a great 
Sarah Hamilton 
News Editor 


moral questions ofour time.... Man must evolve for all human conflict a method which rejects revenge, ag­gression and retaliation. 
"I refuse to accept the cynical notion that nation after nation must spiral down a militaristic srairway into rhe hell ofnuclear destruction. I believe that unarmed trurh and unconditional love will have the final word in reality." 
Seventeen years after the civil rights leader's death, 
leaders ofthe United States and the Soviet Union are srill (or finally) sitting down to try and find the method to which King referred. 

creeds in support of civil rights legislation. In recogni­tion of his work, King received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964. At age 3S he was the youngest recipient. 
By proclaiming Jan. IS Martin Luther King day the 

U.S. government is commending King as a contempo­rary representative of the spirit of justice which sup­posedly founded this nation. His direct cause was the Negro, but on a larger scale he was speaking and march­ing against injustice in this country, of which the oppression ofblacks was, and is, a large part. 
"Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere," wrote the civil rights leader from the Bir· mingham jail where he was imprisoned after conduct­ing a rally to desegregate the city's restaurants, hotels and department stores. 
In King's case, as praiseworthy as his cause, was rhe manner in which he fought for it. King modeled his style ofprotest on rhe teachings of Christianity, Henry David Thoreau's "Civil Disobedience" and Mohandas Gandhi. In his speech accepting the Nobel Prize King said, "Nonviolence is the answer to the crucial political and human being. 
On King's tombstone are King was the force behind the words of a spiritual; the repeal of segregation "Free at last, free at last, laws in states across the thank God Almighty, I'm South, the Civil Rights Act of free at last." King's dream 1964 and the Voting Rights was that people would find Act of 1965. He demon­freedom through love and strated the strength of non­justice before death. violent resistance. The He had a dream that his pinnacle of his career came four children "will one day on Aug. 28, 1963 in his live in a nation where they "March on Washington" in will not be judged by the which he led 250,000 color oftheir skin, but by the people ofdifferent races and content of their character." 
communteAnon 
~ THfATRf 
Friday, Jan. 25 Claude Goretta's "A Girlfrom Lorraine" 7:30p.m. 
Today people carry on that same dream. Others dream that they will not be judged by their gender, or 
their creed, or their age. In declaring King's birthday a federal holiday the successors of Washington, Jefferson and Uncoln have acknowledged that these are noble dreams. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpoint page. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, arc the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board orThe Observer staff. 
Films this week at 


Annenberg Auditorium 
SNITE MUSEUM OF ART  
Monday, Jan. 21  Tuesday,Jan.22  
Pasolini's  Errol Flynn in  
"The Decameron"  'The Adventures  
7 & 9p.m.  ofRobinhood"  
7:30p.m.  

INDIVIDUAL ADMISSION: $2.50 SERIES TICKETS WILL BEAVAILABLE AT THE DOOR 
AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS ELECTRA by Sophocles 7:00P.M. Monday, January 21, O'Laughlin, Saint Mary's College Tuesday, January 22, Washington Hall, Notre Dame Audition information and materials available in COTH Department offices:· The Loft,O'Shaughnessy (NO) and 110 Moreau Hall (SMC) 
NOlRE ~AJvt~ Auditions open to all 
SNNTMAR'/S 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Students 



'IHE~ 


-----~-~~-~~~---~---------~--~-----~--~--~------~------~--~-~---------... 
The Observer Monday, January 21, 1984-page 3 


Three microwaves installed at SAGA 
By DIANE SCHROEDER chased during break for $1,000. Ac­News Staff cording to Luedtke, the ovens were a bargain and cost a third ofthe price 
SAGA Food Services and the Saint ofa home microwave. Mary's purchasing department have introduced three microwave ovens So far, the response has been posi­to warm the College dining experi­tive. Freshman Jennifer Palm said, "I ence. think they're a great invention and I 
"Microwaves are the product of can't wait to get one for my room!" the eighties," according to Bob McCandless resident Julie Darnell Luedtke, director of SAGA at Saint reported, "It's a great way to warm Mary's. He hopes the purchase will your stomach during the cold win­enhance the dining room and ter." Her roommate Lisa McGowan replace some of the older toasters. added, "They made the apple turn­
Three microwave ovens with fans overs taste fresh even though they and service contracts were pur· were really stale." 



Vigilante's actions stir controversy over crime 
ByJOHN FLORY "I don't think the way to end cri­News Staff minal activity is to engage in," said Law Professor Douglas Kmiec. 
The campus-wide opm10n con­Several members of the Notre cerning Bernard Goetz and his al· Dame campus community admitted leged :mack upon four youths on a they didn't know all the facts sur­New York subway is decidedly rounding the Goetz shooting mixed. Father Mario Pedi, rector ofSt. Ed­
According to news reports four wards Hall, said attitudes and intent black youths approached Goetz on should be taken into account. the subway and asked him for five Reportedly Goetz "was talking 
dollars, whereupon he drew a gun about gouging eyes out," said Pedi. and fired at them hitting all four. Two of the youths remain hospi­Senior Norb Loesing admitted to talized, one in a coma. feeling split on the question. "If 
Upon apprehension by New York Goetz is convicted," he said, "the City authorities, two of the youths public at large will feel all the more were found to have been carrying need to take the law into their own sharpened screwdrivers. hands when necessary. Ifnot, it may 
Goetz said he acted in self­seem that such vigilantism is defense. condoned and even encouraged." 

Worse than L.A. 
Two citizens ofEssen, West Gennany wear face during the weekend. masks to protect themselves against the smog 
JPW ~tpplications due Jan~ary 31 
By MICHAEL O'HAGAN whose parents have not yet received Schuessler said Keough, the father of News Staff them are available in the Student Ac­two Notre Dame students, was cho­tivities office. sen by the Junior Parents' Weekend 
Once again the third weekend of The weekend, which begins with executive committee in order to February will play host to the annual registration on Thursday, Febuary provide a parental perspective. Junior Parents' Weeke11d, and as the 14 in LaFortune and ends with a Sun­Seating reservations for the Presi· January 31 application deadline ap· day brunch, includes a dance on dent's Dinner must be made on proaches Chairwoman Julie Schues­Friday evening and the highlight of Febuary 3 or 4 in the Nazz between sler reports that 40 percent of the Saturday night's President's Dinner. 7 and 9 p.m. According to Schuessler class have submitted their ticket ap­University president Theodore each table will seat ten people. Stu­plications. Hesburgh will be the keynote dents may bring up to six ID's in or­
speaker Saturday evening following der to reserve places for eighteen to 

Students who have not yet the Junior Class Mass which he will twenty people. returned their applications and celebrate. Don Keough, president Schuessler also suggests that stu· checks may do so at the Student Ac­and chief operating officer of the dents make hotel reservations now tivities office in LaFortune. Registra­Coca-Cola Company will speak at in order to avoid any problems ac· tion packets for those students the closing brunch Sunday morning. comodating their parents during the 
weekend. 
The schedule for this years JPW presaident for residence life, said, includes two new events designed 
"The national media attention by the committee to increase stu­focused on the formulation and dent involvement. A cabaret show



Policy 
continuedfrom page 1 
release of the alcohol policy also on Friday night will feature singing, said, "Saint Mary's re<:ently revised sparked considerable interest." dancing, and acting. On Saturday af­its alcohol policy in the face of a Goldrick added, "Many schools look ternoon there will be a Foreign tragic accident involving the deaths to and respect Notre Dame as a Studies reception in the ACC for of two students following a campus leader institution." those juniors who spent their sopho­event, and the national movement Considering Notre Dame's role as more year abroad. against alcohol abuse. a "leader" institution, Father Beauc­Students who require extra tick­
"In revising our policy we did not hamp was asked if during the ets for the weekend or have any use the Notre Damt· policy as a policy's formulation was it planned questions concerning the event may model but we did study its release that the final policy would be contact Executive Coordinator and presentation. We tried, in available to other schools for inspec; Mary Richardson at 2206 or Chair­presenting our own revised policy, tion. womanJulie Schuessler at 4251. to avoid the pitfalls of Notre Dame's Beaucamp replied, "Absolutely announcement." not. In formulating the policy, Notre 
The revisions made by Saint Dame viewed it as strictly an inter­Mary's included contlracted parties nal matter. However, Notre Dame 
Healy

and dry halls for freshmen. believes in the policy, and with the 
continuedfrom page 1 

Father Beauchamp suggested interest demonstrated by other several reasons for the interest in schools, Notre Dame is willing to as co-chairman for the platform Notre Dame's policy. "Before formu­share it." committee at Notre Dame's Mock lating our own policy we conducted Goldrick said,"Because of the dif­Convention. He went on to work fact gathering survey5 in which we fering characteristics ofeach school on the Reagan-Bush campaign in asked several school:> about their it would be ill-advised for any school Washington D.C. last summer and policies on alcohol. Now these same to adopt the whole thing." then organized the Republican schools are looking at what we came Goldrick cited the uniqueness of campaign at Notre Dame. up with." Notre Dame football weekends and After law school, Healy plans to 
John Goldrick, a1;sociate vice tailgaters as an example. pursue a career in politics. 

Cold 
continuedfrom page 1 
Most parties on and offcampus went 
ahead as planned, although it left 
party-goers to face wind chills of 
about 60 degrees below zero when 
they traveled home. 
Car batteries died and their 
owners' nostrils froze as students 
battled the cold in both on and off­
campus parking lots. Tom Weigand, 
ofGates Chevrolet, warned not to at­
tempt to start your car if it won't 
easily turn over. "Leave it and seek 
assistance," he said. 
The doors at Memorial Library 
glazed over in fantastic snow 
mosaics, and monitors at the library 
warned students to bundle up with 
scarfs before braving the winds. 
Lines grew long at North Dining 
Hall with students trying to eat 
before the Super Bowl, but rather 
than standing outside, students 
crowded shoulder-to-shoulder in 
the dining hall foyers. 
Streets and sidewalks at Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's were very slick, especially the U.S. 31 and An­gela Blvd. intersection. 
Power outages were reported in Evansville, Ind., and parts of In­dianapolis, but South Bend experi­enced no power outages. 
Sgt. Michael Dearinger of the Indiana State Police said stranded motorists are a major concern in the bitter weather. 
"We're making special efforts to check all abandoned vehicles to make sure no one's in them," he said. "We've encountered some stranded motorists, but not as many as we an­ticipated. Most people are staying in­doors." 
The effect of the Alberta Clipper was felt from North Dakota to nor­thern Alabama and has caused some problems for today's presidential in­auguration. (Related story, page 1.) 
The coldest temperature re­ported in the nation yesterday was 34 degrees below zero at Interna­tional Falls, Minn. 
It was 73 at Key West, Fla., yester­day, and Spring Break is nine weeks away. 


College Costs Are Going Up. But So Is The Army College Fund. 
Tuition, books, lab fees, college living expenses -all seem to be climbing relentlessly. Well, here's some good news from the Army. Today's Army College Fund is climbing too. You can now accumulate over $25,000 for college, if you qualify. 
What's more, you'll study, learn and become profi­cient in a useful skill. It could be a skill with so wide an application in both military and civilian life that it might help you decide what to take in college. 
If you're determined to go on to college, but you don't know where the money is coming from, pick up an Army College Fund booklet from your local recruiter. It offers several options you'll want to in­ve~tigate. Stop by or call: 
SGT JONES -234-4187 ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

r-----------------------~----------~------------~---------------------------------~----~­
Monday,)anuary 21, 1984-page 4

The Observer 
Space shuttle countdown underway for military mission 
r 
,r , ~ r 
r 
~ 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -The five astronauts who will fly America's first military man-in-space mission arrived here yesterday, and though the countdown was set to start at 4 
a.m. today, the exact shuttle launch time remained a military secret. 
The astronauts, all military offi­cers, skipped the usual arrival state­ments to reporters after flying here from their training base at Johnson Space Center in Houston. They were greeted by relatives and drove quickly to crew quarters. 
Officials have said only that liftoff will occur between I: IS and 4: IS 
p.m. EST Wednesday. They contend that keeping the precise time classi­tkd will make it more difficult for 
Pro-abortion activists hold vigils 
Associated Press 
BOSTON · Abortion right~ sup­
porters picketed a Roman Catholic 
archbishop's house and kept vigil at 
clinics for a third day yesterday 
while opponents held rallies and car 
caravans in activities building up to 
the 12th anniversary of the Supreme 
Court's decision Iq:alizing abortion. 
Meanwhile, three men were ar­
rested Saturday in connection with 
eight anti-abortion bombings in the 
Washington, D.C., area in the past 
year. 
At least 24 such attacks have oc­curred since January 1984, and the National Organization for Women sponsored round-the-clock vigils that continued yesterday at ZS fam­ily planning centers and abortion clinics in 18 states to protest the vio­lence. Participants generally re­ported a quiet weekend without incidents. 
Tomorrow is the anniversary of the landmark court ruling. 
In Boston, about 40 pro-choice protesters marched outside the home of Catholic Archbishop Ber­nard Law, who last week offered the support of the Boston Archdiocese ­including medical and financial aid ­to any woman ofany faith who chose to keep her child rather than have an abortion. 
Braving 18-degree temperatures, the demonstrators chanted "Safe, le­gal, on demand -abortion rights across the land" and carried signs that read "Motherhood by choice, not chance." 
Law was not available for com­ment yesterday because he was on his way to Cuba with a delegation of 
U.S. bishops, said his secretary, the Rev. Joseh Scorzello. 
Across town at Boston's Faneuil Hall, about I,000 abortion oppo­nents, including Mayor Raymond Flynn, gathered to hear speakers at the 12th annual Assembly for Life. Outside, pro-choice and anti­abortion groups marched in sepa­rate circles and traded insults. 
More than 90 abortion rights supporters who were keeping vigil for a third day at the Fargo, N.D., Wo­men's Health Organization formed a human chain around the building, remaining outside for 4S minutes as wind chills dropped the tempera­ture to 40 below zero, said Lynn Wil­son, president of Citizens for a Real Choice. 
At the same time, abortion foes drove past the clinic in a "memorial car caravan" several blocks long, led by a hearse carrying a small white coffin. The caravan followed a rally outside the Cass County Court­house, said Susan Richard, president of the LIFE coalition. 
In Washington, federal officials announced Saturday that three men had been arrested in connection with eight bombings of abortion clinics and family planning centers Soviet spy satellites and trawlers sit­ting offshore to monitor the flight. 
NASA reported Saturday that the Defense Department is considering opening up the countdown to reporters when it reaches nine minutes before the intended liftoff, and a decision is expected today. The news media will be permitted to watch the launch from the press site. 
Launch time cannot be precisely calculated just by knowing when the countdown starts, because the count includes "hold" periods ofun­announced length during which the clock is stopped. 
The space shuttle Discovery will be carrying a sophisticated new spy satellite into orbit, sources have re­ported. They say it will be parked in stationary orbit 22,300 miles above the equator south of the Soviet Union. From this high outpost it will electronically eavesdrop on military and diplomatic communications in much of Europe, Asia and Africa. 
Commanding the flight is Navy Capt. Thomas Mattingly, a veteran astronaut who circled the moon on Apollo 16 in 1972 and commanded a shuttle flight iu 1982. The other crew members, all first-time space fliers, are Air Force Lt. Col. Loren Shriver, Marine Lt. Col. james Buchli and Air Force Majs. Ellison Onizuka and Gary Payton. 
The news media will not be able to monitor space-to-ground com­munications during the flight, which has been a practice for years, nor has the length of the mission been dis­closed. Reporters have been told only that they will receive 16 hours notice of Discovery's landing. 
Reporters have been informed by the Pentagon that after the satellite is released it will be boosted to higher orbit by a rocket type making its first flight since a similar stage failed two years ago. That failure, which sent a NASA communications satellite into an improper orbit, was traced to the overheating of a flexible seal in a nozzle steering mechanism. 
NASA also has announced the astronauts will conduct two non­classified experiments. One in­volves the study in weightlessness of diseased blood samples from six people with illnesses such as cancer, diabetes and hypertension. The 
other will see how weightless fluids behave in transit from one tank to another to provide data for satellite refueling missions. 
For NASA the secrecy is a new ex­perience after 24 years of conduct­ing an open information p. licy through 45 man-in-space missions. 
The Defense Dt.·partment will shift most of its shuttle missions starting in about a year to a more se­cure launch base the Air Force is constructing at Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif. 
YOU CAN WIN 


ATRIPTO 
IQ.(I~.If Enter the Lite Beer 

6 GRAND PRIZES Spend Spring Break in Daytona BeachIYou and a friend can enjoy your Spring Break 
this year with this eight day, seven night trip, ~==-....... h~-~~1i~-\.-....................... including round trip air fare, hotel reserva­tions and $500 spending money! 
50 FIRST PRIZU 
Vuarnet Sunglasses 
1,000 SECOND PRIZES 
Lite Beer Spring Break Posters 
r----------------------------------------------------------,
)!lr

UTI BEER SPRING BREAK SWIIPSTAKU OFFICIAL ENTRY FORM 
NO PURCHASE NECESSARY 

NAME 
ADORESS: 

CITY: STATE: ZIP: 
AGE: TELEPHONE: ( 
I  
I  
I  
I state that I am of legal drinking age in my state of residence and hold no In an alcoholic beverage license.  interest  I I I  
Mail this entry form to:  Lite Beer Spring Break Sweepstakes P.O. Box 4171  I I I  
Blair, NE 68009  :  

~----------------------------------------------------------~ 
'P.(J!~» _Spring Break ':~/SWEEPSTAKES 
bnd Win a Trip for You and a Friend 


Daytona Beach 
Uft BIIR SPRING BRIAK SWIIPSTAKIS OFFICIAL RUUS-NO PURCHASI NICIISARY 
1. 
On an Official Entry Form or plain piece of 3" x 5" paper hand print your name, address, phone number, age, and the name of your college or university. 

2. 
MAIL ALL ENTRIES TO: Lite Beer Spring Break Sweepstakes, P.O. Box 4171, Blair, NE 68009. Each entry must be mailed separately. All entries must be received by February 8, 1985. Winners will be determined in a random drawing from among all entires received under the supervision of the D. L. Blair Corporation, an indepen­dent judging organization whose decisions are final on all matters relating to this offer. We cannot be responsible for lost, late or misdirected mail. 

3. 
This sweepstakes is open to residents of the United States who are of legal drinking age in their state and who are attending a college or university on a full or part-time basis at time of entry. The Miller Brewing Company, Philip Morris, Inc., their distributors, affiliates, subsidiaries, advertising and promotion agencies, retail alcoholic beverage licensees and employees and families of each ARE NOT ELIGIBLE. Sweepstakes void where prohibited by law. Limit one prize per family. Taxes on prizes are the sole responsi­bility of prize winners. All Federal, State and local laws and regu­lations apply. The odds of winning a prize depend upon the number of entries received. For a list of major prize winners, send a SEPARATE, self-addressed, stamped envelope to: Lite Beer Spring Break Winners List, P.O. Box 4179, Blair, NE 68009. 

4. 
The Grand Prize winners and traveling companions must agree to depart, to Daytona Beach, Florida during the winner's school's 1985 Spring Break. Trip includes round trip air fare, seven (7) nights hotel accommodations and $500 spending money. Grand Prize travelers must agree to depart and return on dates specified by the Miller Brewing Company. No substitution of prizes is per­mitted. Grand Prize travelers must be at least 19 years of age by the departure date of the trip. Prize winners will be obligated to sign and return an Affidavit of Eligibility within 10 days of noti­fication. In the event of non-compliance within this lime period, an alternate winner will be selected. Any prize returned as undeliverable will be awarded to alternate winners. 


Miller Brewing Co., Milw. WI 

---~------~·------~ 
~ -~-------------------.-----------~------~ 
The Observer Monday, January 21, 1984-page 5 
''I have a dream that ~one day this nation will 

rise up and live out the true meaning of its '' 
Martin Luther King Jr., Aug. 28, 1963 
emorialized 







25 states celebrate holiiday, but N D observance criticized 
By MIKE MILLEN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Many hailed the U.S. Senate in its landmark decision to declarla national holiday in honor of Martin Luther King Jr. 
According to the Martin Luther King Center in Atlanta, Georgia, 25 states officially cele­brated the holiday this year. Some ofthe states chose to honor it on the 15th, while others will observe the holiday today. 
According to Notre Dame Assistant Law Li­brarian Granville Cleveland,·honoring King's birthday "is the decent thing for us as Americans to do." He sees the black leader as a man who "brought forth a consciousness of the wrongs being done to human beings. A leader ... who we don't have today, who went above and beyond the call ofduty." 
Cleveland said King deserves a national holiday, more than just statewide recognition. "He went national, and affected people all over the country. Martin Luther King did much more than any other leader in regards to civil rights," he said. 
Although Cleveland praised King, he was unhappy with Notre Dame's recognition of the holiday. 
When asked what he thought ofthe Univer­sity's observance of the holiday, Cleveland replied, "How much did Notre Dame do for Christmas? Just compare the two. What bot­hers me most is that I saw no symbolism of Christmas on the campus. and Notre Dame 
didn't do much for Martin Luther King." 
Cleveland hopes people will spare a mo­
ment to reflect on King. ''I'd like to see the 
students understand he came along at a very 
important time." 

Cleveland said King did much for blacks everywhere, citing the fact that "JesseJackson might not be where he is (today)." 
Chairwoman of the Black Cultural Arts Council Marsha Auls agreed, saying the "holiday was a good idea. King was a citizen without a position (in public office) who was abl,e to raise the consciousness of a nation." She added, "He made the non-white culture know they have a voice." 
Auls was unhappy with the University's par­ticipation in the holiday. "I don't see it (recognition of the event). It's more of a liberal idea, and Notre Dame is conservative." She would like to see "some sort of booth set up, so that students could get some informa­tion (about King)." 
Aul felt national recognition was necessary because "a lot ofstates would just think it was yet another person having to have their birthday celebrated." 
"It's not just a black student issue," she said. "He changed the social attitudes of an entire country." 
Charles Crutchfield, associate professor of law, thought the holiday to be "a good idea." He said, "The man was of such prominence. 
Can you name another Afro-American given a 
fede.ral holiday?" 
"I'm just sorry it took so long to recognize it 
and they (the U.S. Senate) had to have a fight 
aboUtt it." 
Crutchfield was critical of Notre Dame's ef­forts to recognize King, saying "We give lip service, but when it comes down to it, we're not :;incere. You only have to look around. Maybe our intentions are good, although sometimes you preach a lot but don't practice it." 
Crutchfield continued, "The average Notre Dame student doesn;t know too much about the man. A lot ofkids don't really understand .. . Martin Luther King except through history books." 
"I don't know too much about what the books say, but he (King) raised the conscious­ness ofa nation," Crutchfield said. 
Students around campus shared the opinion the day is worthwhile. Junior Dave Thomas said, "It's good to remember the per­sonality that brought about reforms in civil right". It's more important, however, to look at what he did than at the man himself. He has showed us that it is possible for different races to coexist." 
James Franklin, a freshman engineering stu­dent, agreed. "I think he should get a holiday because of what he did for both blacks and whitc:s. I don't feel Notre Dame did much (to commemorate King's birthday), but Notre Dame doesn't do much to celebrate anyone's birthday." 
Born: Jan. 15, 1929, Atlanta, Ga. 
• 
1947-Ordained a Baptist mini­ster 

• 
1948-graduated from More­house College 

• 
1951 -Received a bachelor of divinity degree from Crozer Theological Seminary 

• 
1953-Married Coretta Scott 

• 
1955-Received a doctoral de­gree from Boston University 

• 
1954-Accepted the pastorate of the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church in Montgomery, Ala. 

• 
1955-Led a city-wide boycott of the Montgomery local transit company 

• 
1957-Organized the Southern Christian Leadership Confer­ence 

• 
1963-Jailed for demonstration in Birmingham, Ala., to de­segregate restaurants, hotels and department stores 


Aug. 28,1963 ·"March on Washing­ton," 250,000 Americans in support of civil rights legislation 
• 
1964-Awarded Nobel Peace Prize 

• 
1964-Led sit-in in St. Augustine, Fla. 

• 
1965-Led campaign to guaran­tee voting rights for blacks 

• 
1966-Led campaign against 


slum conditions in Chicago Died ~pril4, 1969, Memphis, Tenn. 

Fruits of King's work canno1t be ignored, says prof 
By CLAIRE KNEUER 
News Staff 
"I was very often the victim of racial dis­crimination," recalled Professor of Sociology Joseph Scott of the days before Martin Luther King Jr. 
Both Scott and Dennis Tillman, a freshman from Flanner, participated in the Black Cul­tural Arts Council's tribute to King onJanuary 17th. 
Scott recalled, "I remember prior to King the South was solidly segregated by law and custom. The North was segregated in housing, restaurants, bars and public places as a matter of the owner's preference. King's efforts mobilized black people to dismantle apar­theid such as in South Africa today. He worked to create more opportunity for advance­ment." 
"It is with great joy that I take my children to Bloomington, Indiana or Georgia as free in­dividuals without suffering the indignities of racism, going freely to restaurants, the Holiday Inn." 
Scott feels that the young blacks oftoday ­
" Would I even be at Notre Dame if it were not for the dedication of King and men like him? " 
the beneficiaries of the civil rights movement of the sixties and seventies -are unaware of how it all happened. 
"Free people have to be vigilant; they are about to lose freedom because they are not aware ofwhat they may lose," he said. 
According to Scott fewer blacks were ac­cepted for addmission this year and there are fewer than ten black professors teaching on the f1culty. Because there are black professors retiring this year there will be evenfewer next 
year. 
"Notre Dame has not been aggressive in recruiting black professors. If the younger ones leave it will return to an all white fac­ulty,'' Scott said. 
Scott explained that University president, Theodore Hesburgh has responded for the last 1ifteen years by saying he's working on the problem. 
Tillman, who wrote a biography of King for the Black Cultural Arts Council's tribute to King When asked how King had influenced his life Tillman responded: "King had a dream which is not yet fulfilled, there is still racism and discrimination in our country." 
Tillman said black Americans his age and younger tend to take civil rights for granted. 
"We were too young to participate. King was assassinated the day before my second birthday." Tillman said the civil rights move­ment has "lost the fighting spirit of the sixties." 
Many of the opportunities available to blacks are because of King, according to Til­lman. "Would I even be at Notre Dame if it were not for the dedication of King and men like him?" 
Tillman described how as a child his mother was run off the road while walking to school because she was black "King's life motivates me to remember what my mother and her parents went through and to remem­ber the price paid; the sacrifices and lives lost." 
Tillman added, "Nothing is free, nothing is given, everything must be worked for. Ifyour are black the work is twice as hard because you often have to prove yourselftwice." 



...----------------------~------------------------~-----. ~ -~----------~-~---­
The Observer Monday, January 21, 1984-page 6 
Jury breaks to watch Super Bowl in $50 million Sharon, Time case 
Associated Press recklessly published a false report court clerk read aloud in open court about the Israeli Cabinet minister. portions of testimony by Time 
NEW YORK -After rehearing key The jury, which is sequestered, Jerusalem correspondent David sections of testimony from three adjourned shortly before 5 p.m. A Halevy, Jerusalem bureau chief Time magazine employees, the jury federal marshal said the television Harry Kelly and chief of correspon­deciding Ariel Sharon's $50 million used by the jurors was equipped dents Richard Duncan. Those wit­libel suit against Time Inc. ad­with a cut-off switch, in case a news nesses, especially Halevy, whose journed early yesterday to watch the briefwas broadcast during the game. internal memo sparked the article, Super Bowl. 'Ibe jurors were to resume were considered crucial by both 
The federal court panel was wres­deliberations again today at 9:30 sides. tling with the most complex issue in a.m. After the reading, which ended at determning whether Sharon was For about 90 minutes yesterday 4:05 p.m., the jury left the court­libeled: whether Time knowingly or the panel listened intently as the room to continue discussions. 

Syria warned in Israeli with drawl 
Associated Press The spokesman said the State-run Beirut radio quoted wit­withdrawal of heavy gear was to be nesses in Sidon -the first major city 
TEL AVIV, Israel -Officials said Is­followed by a rollback on Feb. 18 of expected to be evacuated -as saying rael's army began to pull armored Israeli troops from a ZOO-square­convoys of about 70 Israeli jeeps, cars, trucks and heavy equipment to mile chunk of territory along the trucks and armored cars moved new lines in southern Lebanon yes­Mediterranean coast. through the city at dawn on their terday, and a top diplomat warned Residents of Lebanese villages way southward. Syria not to take advantage oflsrael's around Sidon, near current Israeli Israel's Cabinet last week ap­planned withdrawal. front lines, told reporters that proved a three-phase withdrawal 
"The initital logistic stages of the several Israeli army trailers returned plan, without fixing a date for com­redeployment have begun," said an empty yesterday after carrying pleting the pullback to the Israeli­
Israeli army spokesman in Tel Aviv, armored vehicles toward the village Lebanese border. who in accordance with army regu­of Kaitouli, along the redeployment Israel's current front line is the 
Frosty the president 
Presider1t Reagar1 looks OTI as his gramtsor1 Cameror1 builds a 
lations spoke on condition he not be line. Awali River, 37 miles north 
Only the word 'Allah' in Arabic on F.r.r.r...o""..-dOOaoaacaaaa~......-..JC'""..r.r...o--.r.r..r~......-......-......-......-......-......-..0 the portico clearly distinguishes the home ofGhazi Abu Younis from the northern face of President Reagan's 






I DISCOVER I

house. "I have visited the United States, and I have st"en the White House and ~ 
~ 

I am very proud to do the same," ~ Learn About Yourself, Your ~ Abu Younis told a reporter, speaking above the rock-cutting saws inside 
~ Interests, Abilities and Values ~ 

the half-completed building. Abu Younis, a Palestinian heavy ~ ~ equipment dealer, sent his two sons 
~ The DISCOVER Vocational Guidance §~

to study at North Carolina State Uni­versity. But he said it wasn't admira­Program is now available at the office of ~ 
tion for the United States that 
inspired his house. Counseling & Psychological Services 
I

"Actually," he said, "I liked the 
i Center, located in the Student Health §

design." 
S Center. Students will find this computer ~ 

His brother-in-law, Helmi al­
~ system provides information on both ~ 

Adham, incorporated the White House design in the house's front 
I academic and career opportunities. ~ 

and sides. But from the rear, Abu Younis' homt· could be another of the rectangular stone boxes that ~ Interested students should call ~ have spread across the hills of Am­
man during the economic boom of the past decade. 
::.'-......-......-.......................JC'""....coo"".......~....................................................................................................,..........,.............................................;QI"".........,.........J 

[ 
~ . r 
r I 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
f 
r 
, r r 
r 
, r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
STIOWfTlaTI or1 the White House gnmr1ds. Cameror1 ir1 the sor1 of 
named. "Nonessential material is 

Reagar~'s sor1 Michael. 
being transported southward." P'........R·~·~.~~·;~..H·~·i·;..·~ 

French diplomat recalled amidst spy rumors 

Styling
Associated Press nection to the scandal. ''I'm not in­alleged espionage case. The source, volved in any spying activity nor is who spoke on condition he not be 
NEW DELHI, India-A French dep­the French Embassy involved," he identified, said the three were an of­uty military attache linked in Indian said in an interview. Bolley left for ficer of India's Cabinet Secretariat, a press reports to a major espionage Paris on a commercial flight shortly messenger in Prime Minister Rajiv scandal was recalled to Paris on yes­before midnight yesterday. Gandhi's office and a Bombay in­terday for consultations, officials In Paris, a spokesman for the dustrialist. 531 N. Michigan St.. said. Foreign Ministry said, "The French 
The United News of India news government wished to recall the Their arrests brought to 14 the i&ll Phone 233-4957 IQi agency quoted intelligence sources deputy military attache to Paris for number of people taken into cus­
··········i········································~ 
as charging a businessman arrested consultations. As for the rest, it has tody on suspicion ofespionage since by authorities had passed no comment to make about an affair photocopies of vital national docu­of which it is ignorant." Thursday. Ten of those arrested 
mt"nts to the French official, Lt. Col. Meanwhile, a government source work for the government, including Alain Bolley. said three more people were taken five in the Defense Ministry; three However, Bolky denied any con-into custody in connection with the are businessmen. 


FASHION SHOW 
White House being built in Jordan 
Associated Press 
AMMAN, Jordan -A Pale:.tinian businessman's version of the White House is rising on a dusty hillside in the Jordanian capital, overlooking the boxy villas and slender minarets of modern Amman. 
From the front and sides, it looks as if the White House has been uprooted from Pennsylvania Avenue and planted on a steep slope above Jordan University Street. 
Wbt 1\niglJm nftlttC!Iastlr 
Men's Hair Styling at its finest ... minutes from campus ! 

Haircut, 
shampoo, 272-0312 
& blowdry
277-1619 545)) ferrace Lane 
$8.50 

(SL Rd. 2)) 
Acro~s from Martin's (hair must be shampooed day ofcut) 
We are only minutes from campus ! 
---.... 




TRYOUTS 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 

CaD Chris at: 

234-8997 


r The Observer Monday,January 21, 1984-page 7 


Administrator, prof visit University of Peace over break 
LYNNE R. STRAND sary. Mainly composed of agricul­and represents Co:;ta Rica's liberal The Costa Ricans' "biggest resent­feet the engineering department News Staff tural workers, the camp sheltered a segment. ment is against the economic situa­when discussing professional con­woman and her three children. Besides Carazo, i!> faculty member tion," stated Taylor. cerns. 
While students enjoyed their The University ofPeace, proposed Murray Silberman, who was first ap­The cost ofoil is up and the cost of Because Malloy was in Costa Rica, Christmas break, one Notre Dame by the United Nations in 1979, is pointed by President John Kennedy coffee, its biggest export, is down. he saw the whole LatinAmerican sit­administrator and one engineering more like an institute of "think to the Latin American region. One With a huge debt to the Interna­uation but was in "no danger at all." 
professor attended the University of tanks," said Malloy. Taylor called the priest is always on staff, along with tional Monetary Fund, Costa Rica is Said Malloy, "my prime reason was Peace in SanJose, Costa Rica. University an "ideal" and a "grand two volunteers. getting into a "bigger and bigger just to learn what A seminar sponsored by the concept" in a peaceful country sur­This center to study peace is built hole" like all Latin America, said the University of Peace 
,
United Nations University of Peace rounded by war. on "very attractive grounds, among Taylor. They are "treading this line" is doing." Malloy has visited Latin allowed participants to "1) become There were no students, no nature," commented Father Malloy. between providing for the citizens America many times, but he had 1
,
familiar with the University ofPeace, dorms, and no libraries. 20 miles out ofSan Jose, the Univer­and being responsive to the bankers. never traved in Central America. 
2) learn of Costa Rica, an unarmed Malloy said it is too early to con­sity of Peace has approximately 750 Costa Rica's industries include Despite "severe economic prob­'1 democracy, and 3) have a series of sider a joint program between Notre acres, with 500 of those being an coffee, bananas, sugar cane, fishing. lems" and that the people are ,1 talks on Central America," said Fa­Dame and the University of Peace. ecological preserYe. A wealthy and tourism. This Latin democracy "killing each other," Malloy holds ther Edward Malloy associate This Costa Rican university had of­Costa Rican donated the land. has very little natural resourses. hope for Central America. provost and officer of Notre Dame. fered one five-week program, a Costa Rica is "not a typical Commented Taylor, "as long as Taylor sums the seminar by giving 
Malloy and James Taylor, associ­"field laboratory" where students country, not for an illustrated ac­there's war, no one will invest." Carazo and the University ofPeace's ate dean of the College of Engineer­lived with Costa Rican families. count" on the Latin American situa­Employment is down, but Costa position: Stop United States aid. ing, represented Notre Dame at the The University needs one person tion, said Taylor. An unarmed Rica is "not in as desperate shape" as "They think it ferments the situation seminar. to implement specific programs for democracy, Costa Rica has little one might imagine a Central Ameri­more than supressing it. If you give 
Fourteen other colleges sent rep­any future joint programs with other poverty and a small<: r degree ofclass can country. Said Taylor, "It's sort of people guns, they ~ill shoot." resentatives, including Manhattan, universities. separation -a land much unlike the like the U.S. in the 30's, except that it 
1 
1 
., 
St. John's, and Marquette, and all are Malloy stated that the University other "oppressive olgarchies" of is always warm there." Land reform is absolutely neces­members of the Association ofCath­of Peace needs to "define their pur­Latin America, said Taylor. The Center for Social Concerns sary said Taylor. "You just can't chop olic Colleges and Universities which pose. They need respectable aca­With only a police force, Costa wants more "awareness" in each col­up all the farmland and expect sponsored the SanJose seminar. demic types to focus their energies." Rica has neither conflicts ·nor vio­lege, said Taylor. Attending the San everything to work out for the 
The seminar's purpose was The University needs a faculty and lence. A small minority does want lose peace seminar will indirectly ef-poor." "different for different people," better facilities, and "then (the Uni­arms to defend the country, but the Taylor noted that the seminarspecif­versity of Peace) should snowball." government has always relied on the ically added to his understanding of Receiving no financial support Costa Rican tradition of strong 

Equipment company 
Latin America, "politically, cul­from the United Nations, the Univer­stability, Carazo feels the United turally, and economically." sity is subject to a UN governing States is pressuring Costa Rica to Taylor was the only engineer in at­board. This board is composed of have a military. 

settles with workers 
tendance among five priests, four four UN officials, two Costa Ricans, Concerning the latin American nuns, and five administrators. and ten others, two from each of the poor, "the Catholic Church used to Associated Press mutual agreement, the Harvester 
From Jan. 6 to 13, these ACCU five UN zones. One American, Co­say it was God's will" stated Taylor. statement said. representatives visited the Univer­lumbia University professor, Betty But now the Clergy may hold three CHICAGO International The weekend strike was the first sity for Peace, and the Costa Rican Reardon is a member. different views: work through the Harvester Co. and the United Auto work stoppage against International countryside by bus. Malloy and The University of Peace relies system, supply more guns, or Workers union reached a tentative Harvester since a 5% -month strike Taylor met scholars ofLatin America financially on independent sources, actively work against the "inequality contract agreement last night, en­in the winter of 1979-80. and church leaders, including the such as a large Japan sponsor, and and injustice" of the poor in what is ding a walkout by more than 11,000 The 1979-80 strike, coupled with Costa Rican Archbishop. those from Europe, North and South termed "prejudice fc·r the poor." workers that had begun less than 48 a depressed farm equipment market, 
Malloy and Taylor visited Poas America. Instead of investing in a military hours before, a company spokesman caused huge losses for the company Volcano, a coffee-growing area, and Rodrigo Carazo, former Costa or industry, Costa Rica "invested in said. and it took drastic steps to stay the Pacific coast, a poorer region. Rican President from 1978-82, is the future," said Taylor, by putting Workers were to return to the job afloat, including consolidation of 
At a Salvadorian refugee camp, now the University's president. The money into hospitals, roads, and immediately, said Harvester spokes­operations, huge layoffs, and the they were told what services were driving force behind the University, education. When universal grade man Bill Greenhill in a statement an­benefits concessions. provided and why they were neces-Carazo possesses a world reJ:>Utation school was implemented after the nouncing the proposed three-year "What we are asking is not at all 
Go1bWork ForAn••• ORA TIGER, 
A CLOWN OR 
EVEN A CAT! 
,.......~01' 
LEO BURNETT 
•••Ell 

Ernie The Keebler Elf, Tony The Tiger, Ronald McDonald, and Moqjs The Cat are__clients who offer challenging opportunities. The rewards of working with them are UNCOMMONLY GOOD! 
If you are interested in learning about a career in the fast-paced advertising media industry come to: Morris Inn, Alumni Room at 7:00 pm for an infor­mative pres~ntation foll6wed by refreshments. 
TUESDAY, dANUARY 22 
BANKING••• 

1948 take-over, people initially did contract. He said no further details unreasonable," said Larry Terry, a not agree since thell: their children were available on the pact. spokesman for UAW local 98 in In­could not work in the fields. Costa The strike began at midnight dianapolis. "We stepped forward 

Rica has a 90 percent literacy rate. 
0 Holy St. Jude opostle and martyr great In virtue and rich In miracles near kinsman of Jesus Christ. Faithful In­tercessor of all 'INho Invoke your special pcltronage In time of need. Tc1 you have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg whom God has · given such great power to come to my assistance. Help me In my pre­sent and urgent petition, l11n return I promise tc• make yel.lr name known and cause you to be Invoked. Say three Our Fathers, three Hall Mary's and three Gloria for nine days. Publications must be promls· eel. Pray for us and all who In· voke your aid • Aman 
·Th1s novena has never been known to 1011 . THN~K YOU ST JUDE: . 
ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 

1st Source Bonk's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint ~v1ory's and Notre Dome students and faculty. In addition,.this office brings you the convenience of 24 bonkin~J 
locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours-Monday through friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~ 



sourtce 
•aanlt(Jon M1chiono's 1stTeom 
for unsurpassed bonking serviceI Memoer ~.D.I.C. 

Friday, with the union saying it was when they needed concessions, and seeking restoration of benefits it now we'd like them back." conceded to the ailing farm equip­The company hasn't posted an an­ment giant in 1982. nual profit since 1979 and does not 
"Normal scheduled operations expect an improvement in the de­are expected to resume immedi­pressed farm-equipment business ately at all UAW-represented IH for at least the next five years, Inter­facilities, including manufacturing national Harvester chairman Donald plants and parts-distribution Lennox said last October. centers," said Greenhill. The strike involved plants at East 
"The company has been informec­Moline, Rock Island and Melrose that the UAW's Harvester Council Park in Illinois; Indianapolis; will meet tomorrow to review the Springfield, Ohio; Memphis, Tenn.; tentative agreement and to make its and Louisville, Ky. It also affects dis­recommendations to the UAW tribution centers in Georgia, Ten­membership," he said. nessee, Texas, Indiana and 
Ratification meetings at the 23 Minnesota and an International UAW local unions included in the Harvester engineering center in negotiations will be held later in the Hinsdale, Ill. week, the Harvester statement said. Harvester facilities not affected by It said no details of the tentative the strike included a plant in agreement would be released until Waukesha, Wis., and parts distribu­the ratification process was com­tion centers in California, Kansas pleted. City, Kan., and Baltimore. 
The previous Harvester-UA W UAW members braved blowing contract was to have expired Sept. snow, sub-zero temperatures and ~0, ~98~ _but was· extended by termination notices yesterday 



~i~~~_()__i_J_l_·t_________________
M_on-da-y,J-an-uary--21-,19-84--p-ag-eS 


r r 
r 
r r­Riding the drunken 
r 
r 

r driving bandwagon 
r 
r 
~ 
During the rather frequent and lengthy pe­riod~ of free time during break, I w . .tched r quite a hit of television. Normally, it would be r the programs catching one's attention, but r this Christmas the trend seemed to be toward 
drunken driving commercials. Every single
~ time the set was turned on, my family saw no less than five such commercials per hour. Granted, there is growing support for the 
Dave Kroeger the same to you 
movement against drunken driving, but this is ridiculous. One is even tempted to go out and drive drunk just to annoy those who make the commercials. 
~ 
What is more, everyone seems to be jump­ing on the bandwagon. Senators, policemen, grocery store clerks, and my grandmother. Again. this is fine, but why these people and why now? It is all very well and good to be concerned about drunken driving, provided that one has the right intentions. This problem has always existed in our society. There has r always been laws against it. Why should every­one realize now that drunken driving is a ~ problem? Is it just a fad? Is it just a means to r ride public sympathy into an elected office? r 
Sadly, no one has really shown me otherwise. 
r 
Do not misunderstand. In no way, shape or
r 
form am I an advocate ofdrunken driving, but I would like to sec genuine progress rather
~ 
than just stricter laws. It worries me when I sec someone arrested for selling liquor to a minor during a sting operation. Such tactics seem to do little more than create crime, and when police officers are used in connection with the operation it creates a void in the nor­
mallaw enforcement ofthe community. What 
would happen if a bank were being robbed at 
the same time? I also worry about the recent 
court cases in which hosts can be sued for pro­
viding alcohol to their guests. I can just 
picture some housewife spooning gin into the 
unwilling mouth ofher husband's best friend. 
When will we learn from the past? Prohibi­tion failed years ago. Its skeleton will have little more success. Arrests do not change public opinion. They do not shape society. What the anti-drunken driving advocates have created is a reign offear. No one can trust an­otherfor fear ofattack. The entire atmosphere has become a game. Drink. Get drunk. Drive home drunk. Do not get caught. Whoops! Go to jail. Do not pass go. Do not collect 5200. 
If, indeed, the commercials are serious, then they will try to stop this farce. Chlmge the attitude ofsociety by changing the people from within. Teach that it is fine to drink, but that there are other ways ofgetting home than driving drunk. Only then can we achieve a so­lution. 
Is such a solution likely? I wonder, espe­cially in the case of minors. More often than not, parents are aware their children drink but are willing to overlook this as long as the kids are home in bed by morning. I shudder to think what would happen to most people if they called their parents to say that they had too much to drink and were staying over at a friend's home. Why? It is all part ofthe unwrit­ten set of rules we pass from generation to generation, rules we seem to value above life itself. Indeed, in the case of drunken driving, we just may pay that price. 
David Kroeger is a sophomore in the Col­lege ofArts and Letters Honors Program and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

If you have an opinion, why not share it? 

If you would like to respond to something you've read in lbc: Observer, wby not write a letter to the editor. Letters sbould be well· written, typed, no more than 250 words in length and must bear the sign<lture of tbe au­thor. Letters wblcb are notsigned by the author will not bepubllsbed. 
Letters to tbe editor can be mailed to The Observer, P.O.Bo:x Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or delivered to either our Notre Dame office in LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office in Haggar College Center. 
The Observer reserves tbe rlgbt to edit all material submitted to tbe Viewpoint depart­mentforpublication. 



Reasons to remember Martin Luther King 
Trying to ensure equality of treatment for all people in a heterogeneous society is the most difficult task most nation-building ar­chitects have faced. This process is challeng­ing enough to merit its successful practitioners the world's most prestigious award, the Nobel Peace Prize. While peace­making among diverse people is not easy, and while many pacific arrangements have vanished or been lessened in their impact, little can detract from the achievements of 
guest column 
world Otizens such as Mohanaas LJnan<l( Ralphe Bunche, Dag Hammerskjold, Bishop Desmond Tutu, and Martin Luther King Jr. 
It is no accident that both Rev. King and Ghandi have been recipients of this distinc­tion. King publicily credited the teachings of Ghandi as having been very influential upon his American brand of non-violent civil dis­obedience. When Montgomery, Ala. policemen took Rosa Parks from a public bus for refusing to move to the back, King responded with a peaceful bus boycott. After the brutal 1964 murder of three civil rights workers in Mississippi, King asked for addi­tional volunteers for the struggle, and when the city of Birmingham was on the brink of race riots after the bombing ofa black Baptist 
church which took the lives of four young 
black girls attending Sunday school, King per­
suaded the city to pray. 
The campaign at Selma, more than any other event, gave birth to the Voting Rights Act of 1965. By attracting to his movement racial slurs and violence, Americans were forced to recognize just how morally corrupt they could be. But more significantly, by using civil disobedience so effectively at Selma in 1964, King also demonstrated our potential, as a nation, for peaceful change. Brilliantly employing his Ghandian philosophy of non­violence, King presented the American people with portraits of both our worst and best selves. Martin Luther King, Jr. knew us better than ourselves. And despite those battles left unfinished, no one doubts the las­ting impact of a Civil Rights movement that was led by the Atlallta-born son of a school teacher and Baptist minister. 
At a time when peace is so rare a com­modity for so many people in the world, we remember King because he demonstrated, even when faced with the toughest odds, that peaceful change is possible. In the face of sometimes overwhelming evidence to the contrary, we remember King because he found in his religious faith, a weapon more potent than any his enemies could summon to deter him. We remember King because in a nuclear age, we are left with little choice but to believe and to dedicate ourselves to the memory of a man whose life and teaching were so demonstrative of the power oflove. 
Frederick D. Wright is the director of the Black Studies Program at Notre Dame. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Astounded by Father Hesburgh's position 
Dear Editor: 

During the Civil Rights movement, Father Hesburgh supported only that law which gave all blacks the civil right to vote, but now he would support a law that would give only some unborn babies the civil right to life. Prohibition of abortion during the last three months ofpregnancy would save slightly over 12,000 babies annually, but 1,488,000 would still be killed by abortion. 
We in the pro-life movement who were taught by Father Hesburgh are astounded by his position and theory of relative civil and moral values. The civil right to life for all un­born deserves the support Father Hesburgh gave to civil rights for all blacks. There was no consensus for black rights then and it took vio­lence, federal troops, federal marshalls and federal court injunctions to enforce this un­popular law. It was enforced because it was morally right, not because it was popular. 
james]. Herr 1952 Notre Dame graduate Pontiac, 1/1. 

Belli's intentions in India are repugnant 
Dear Editor: 

It is a shame that many thousands of Indian people had to be the victims ofa major indus­trial accident. We can imagine the agony and grief felt by those affected and we sympathize with them. 
Clearly, the Union Carbide Corporation is at fault here, and must provide compensation to those affected by this unfortunate accident. Yet, is it not more unfortunate that one San Francisco attorney is trying to capitalize on the misfortune of these victims? Why should one American attorney have the right to ap­point himself representative for all of the casualties. What interest, other than profit, does Melvin Belli hold in India or the Indian people? It is clear to us that Belli is merely a glorified ambulance chaser, rushing to the scene of an accident, looking for a lawsuit. Melvin Belli does not belong in India. 
Leave the defense of the Indian people to the Indian attorneys. It is our beliefthat Belli's primary interest is the percentage which he will receive after a settlement has been made. The thought of this sickens us. We can only hope that we an: wrong, and that Melvin Belli docs have a conscience. But until we find out the truth, our prayers are with the Indian people. 
jim Cole Allen Burton Grace Hall 


Correction 
Because of a production error, two headlines in Friday's ObsenH!I' were in­terchanged. The correct headline for the Bill Krais column should have been "The public right to scrutinize govern­ment." The correct headlin~ for the Santiago O'Donnell column should have been "Brewing discontent in the Colombian hills." 
The=Observer  Editorial Board  Department Managers  
,  
,.. ,  P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Edttor-m-Chtef. Managing Edttor  . . Bob Vonderheide ... Mark Worscheh  Business Manager. Controller  Dave Ta1clet Dave Stephen itch  
r  The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  News Editor . . .  . .. Sarah Ham11ton  Advertising Manager  ..... Anne Cull1gan  
r  University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor  . . . . . . . .  Dan McCullough  Circulation Manager.  ,Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies otthe administration of either institution. The news is reported as  Sam/ Mary's Editor . . .. Anne Monastyrsk1  Systems Manager  Mark B. Johnson  
r  accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns1gned editonals represent the opinion  Sports Ed1tor..  . Michael Sullivan  Production Manager.  . . Chns Bowler  
r  of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column  Viewpoint Editor . .  . . Dave Grote  Project Manager  .. Amy Stephan  
r  present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the  Features Editor.  . ..... Mary Healy  
r  community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters.  Photo Editor.  Pete Laches  Founded November 3, 1966  
r  is encouraged.  

~ 




Accent 
Monday,January 21, 1984-page 9 
Thanks to you, it works ... for me 
Marc Ramirez 
Strange Days Indeed 
E 
very so often it becomes necessary for a person to completely ignore the protests ofhis digniry, and his pride, and his self-esteem, in order to rectify situations which are utterly more important. This is one ofthose times. 
I know what you're going to tell me. You're gonna say, well, sure 
this may be a disastrous situation, but it'll only hurt you in the short 
run, you know. But since my life is a whole series ofshort runs, it often 
is a whole series ofdisasters. 
This isn't just a case of my car breaking down -no, I've already had 
my disaster there. I don't have a car. And it's not something trivial like 
not being able to get into anywhere but the Commons. I mean, I'll be 
21 in less than two weeks, but it won't matter because I have no ID 
whatsoever; no Notre Dame mug shot, no major bank card, no driver's 
license, no Playboy Club member's card, and no International Scrabble 
Players Association identification card. Some cruel, heartless thug ran 
offwith my wallet over Christmas break and I haven't gotten around to 
sniffing him out of the woodwork and thrashing him yet. But that's not 
what's bugging me. 
No, this is different. I need money, and I need it bad. 
I've tried everything. Could MARC RAMIREZ of301 HOWARD 
HALL be the winner ofTEN MILliON DOLLARS? I don't know, but I 
mailed my chance to win to Ed McMahon. Working at the dining hall 
just isn't something a second-semester senior is willing to undertake. 
And there's only so much you can borrow, so now even the Morrissey 
Loan Fund is after me, not to mention Texaco, Sears, the Columbia 
Record and Tape Club, and what few friends I have left. 
Don't ask me how this happened. The phone calls and the credit 
cards and the Christmas gifts just all caught up with me this time. I've 
thought ofpawning my watch or selling my memoirs, but there are no 
takers. 
I called home and asked for a few dollars, but you know how it is 
when you've got seven dogs and a cat and two fish and the Malibu is 
guzzling gas and all that heat is seeping quietly out through the cracks 
under the door. And my rich uncle has yet to introduce himselfto me. 
I thought ofsending out chain letters threatening people with 
violent deaths unless they sent me my needed funds and then sent the 
letters on their way again, but no one takes those seriously, and 
besides, I can't afford the postage. 
And I thought of taking a huge sign to the DePaul game and waving 
it on national TV, but the cameras never focus on the section I sit in, 
and even ifthey did the guys two rows down would always be in the 
way. Not to mention those yellow pom-poms and Tim Kempton's 
arms. 
But I just couldn't bring myself to do any of that stuff. 
However, it's time for me to swallow my pride, and not in the name 
oflove. It's time for the Hail Mary pass. So everybody go out, and I'll 
throw it long, and somebody catch it, and everything'll be all right, 
OK? I'm going to do something that, to my knowledge, has only been 
attempted once before on a major scale. Yes, you guessed it, I'm going 
to imitate my idol and yours,John Z. DeLorean. 
I'm not shy. I'm broke. I need your money, and I need it now. 
Obviously I have been through numerous rough times, and my 
confidence stands on shaky ground. I have fallen from the ranks of the 
mighry, and ifyou've ever fallen from the ranks of the mighty, you 
know how much it hurts. 
I'm not picky. I'll take anything. I will accept any contribution, no 
matter how small. Those ofyou with lots ofcredit cards can loan your 
extra onesto me for short periods oftime. A few dollars, a few cents-I 
don't care. ' 
You're open to ideas, I'm sure, so I took the liberty ofcorning up with a few. Write home and have your relatives send me money. Or the family dog. Be sure to describe me as a wonderful lad who will write every week and is willing to give up his first fathered child as interest. Or look at this as a possible tax ernernption. I offer you the opportunity to offer me, tax-free, millions ofyour hard-earned dollars in the form ofdonations and gifts, which you can then count offon your tax return at the end of the year. 
Checks an: accepted. I especially like the ones with the pretry pictures on them, like wildlife scenes, orDeGrazia paintings, or famous American monuments and national parks~ Ifyou are afraid of sending money through the mail, don't hesistate to come by my room, any hour of the day or night. No sizable donations will be refused. 
Otherwise, send your contributions to me, c/o The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. Or send them to my room, 301 Howard. Or send them to a good friend of mine. Send them anywhere, but justget them to me quick. 
I understand that I'm asking a lot, but nothing is too much when we're all destined to be friends for life. Send your donations beforeJan. 22 and you'll receive your own special copy of these elegant Phoenix Suns 1984-85 schedules that I have scattered about my room. Certain contributors, selected at my discretion, will receive wallet-size glossies of my yearbook picture. 


Thank you all so much. And now that I've worked right through dinner, does anyone have a few bucks I can borrow for some food? 


An antidote to 'Fate of the Earth' 

Amy StepJitan 
Book review 
"Armageddon in Prime Time" 
by George Bailey is the sort 
ofbook Ronald Reagan would love. 
Bailey writes ofthe Arne rican 
media's obsession with bad news, 
depicts Soviet Communism as a 
failed experiment from which the 
nation and its citizens may never 
recover and endorses the Star Wars 
program. 
For those who suffered 
nightmares upon readingJonathan 
Schell's "Fate ofthe Earth," Bailey's 
latest effort could be an effective 
antidote. There are no "what if' 
scenarios in this book, n:~ graphic 
descriptions ofnuclear warfare or 
nuclear weapons. Bailey does not 
intend to scare the reader nor to 
tell what might happen. Instead he 
offers his views on current East­
West relations and how 1:he media 
affects these. 
Some ofBailey's vieW!· border on the absurd. At one point he con­nects the excessive use ofglass in modern architecture to 1:he rise of terrorism. In Chapter 3, he outlines how the the East/West break in the Christian church initiated current confrontation between the United States and the Soviet Union. He also unceremoniously crowns Herman Melville as America's greatest au­thor. 
The book is at its best when Bailey addresses directly the role of the media in world relations. In the Soviet Union, he writes, had news is rigorously suppressed and the papers are filled with euphemisms and slogans. Westerners, however, seem to be addicted to b:1d news. Good news doesn't sell, ~:nd the picture Americans see on their evening news often is grimmer than the world it supposedly reflects. 
Although Hailey addre:;ses th.: effect of the press, advertising and propaganda on both the East and the West, he seems to brush off the first half of the book's title-Ar­mageddon. He writes that the "war scare is a Soviet ploy," and doesn't 
How Not to Study for an Orgo Exam 


seem to consider that the nuclear buildup he briefly describes could lead to nuclear holocaust. rle states repeatedly that the coming years will usher in some sort ofworld government, but gives no indica­tion as to how this might come about. 
Bailey is a journalist and the book reads like a series ofloosely col­lected editorials. Each short chapter introduces a new topic. In this 200-page book, Bailey discusses the probability ofa united Europe, the health conditions in the Soviet Union, the secularization ofthe American and Soviet governments 
Bebot 
and the influence ofMelville and 
Dostoevsky on their respective 
nations. 
The reader is deluged by a pot­pourri offacts and opinions, but is given few connections or explana­tions. Both the prose and the ideas tend to be disjointed and repetitive. The reader is left wondering what, if anything, all this means. 
"Armageddon in Prime Time" has much to offer; Bailey's views on both the Western and the Soviet press are sometimes insightful and the picture he paints oflife in the Soviet Union, although somewhat biased, is interesting to a reader not well acquainted with this subject. These bright spots, however, must be filtered from a jumbled mix of fact and opinion. 
"Armageddon in Prime Time" by George Bailey is available in paperbackfrom Avon Booksfor 
(3.95. 


'Missing' 
Daniel Moran 
features staffwriter 
T
he film "Missing" will be shown Monday and Tuesday night at the Engineering Auditorium. Dealing with events surrounding the 1973 Chilean coup, "Missing" won the coveted Grand Prize at the 1982 Cannes Film Festival and was nominated for the Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Actor, and Best Director. 
The film recounts the true life story ofEd Horman's agonizing search for his son, who has dis­sappeared during the overthrow of the Socialist government of Salvatore Allende. Jack Lemmon, in what some have called the greatest performance ofhis career, portrays Ed Horman. Sissy Spacek portrays his daughter-in-law who searches along with him. 
Admission will be $1.00. Showings will be at 7:00 and 9:15p.m. 

-
•' 


Sports Briefs 
The Novice Women's Crew Club wm be 
meeting for practice today at 6 p.m. in the weight room on the second floor of the Rockne Memorial Building. The club will me~t again tomorrow at 5:30p.m. at the ACC. -The Obsen;er 
The ND Novice Men's Crew Club will be meeting for practice today at 8 p.m. in the ACC Fieldhouse. Anyone who is interested may attt:nd. · The Observer 
NVA river-rafting trip participantswill be meeting today at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC. Anyone who is interested must attend. -The Obsen;er 
Bengal Bouts trainingcontinues today and every day at 3:4 5 p.m. in the boxing room at the ACC. Anyone who is interested may attend; no experience is necessary. -The Observer 
An agility and fitness program is being sponsored by the Notre Dame football team. Participants will meet every Tuesday and Thursday from 5:30 p.m. to 6:45 p.m. Anyone who is interested should attend the first meeting tomon-ow at 5:30 
p.m. in the Football Auditorium at the ACC. -The Observer 
Downhillskiing tripsare being sponsored by NVA on four Tuesdays, )an. 22 and 29 and Feb. 5 and 12. The cost of all four trips is $62, which includes transportation, equipment, lift tick­ets and lessons. Participants must register and pay in advance at the NVA office. -The Obsen;er 

Monday,January 21, 1984 -page 10 
The ND women's track team is looking for 
volunteers to help at its home meet on Friday, Feb. I. Anyone who is interested should call Patty at 283-4072 or Anne at 283-2646.-The Observer 
Interhall volleyball tournaments are 
being organized by NVA. The entry deadline for both the men's and women's tournaments is Wednesday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Doubles racquetball tournaments are 
being organized by NVA. There also will be a doubles handball tournament. The entry deadline for all of the tournaments is Wed­nesday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Afl Indoor track meetis being organized by NVA. 
The entry deadline is Wednesday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Observer 
Cross-country skiing events are being 
sponsored by NVA. On)an. 26 there will be a novice clinic, onjan. 29 there will be an advanced clinic, on)an. 29 and Feb. 8 there will be "moonlighters" at night, on Feb. 2 there will be a day tour, and on Feb 9 there will be a day ofraces. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Observer 
Stretchercise and Aerobics Classes are being held by NVA. The classes begin this week. For more informa­tion, call the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Obsen;er 
see BRIEFS, page 11 
49er faithful celebrate win in S.F. streets 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -Proud and excited 49er fans mobbed the city's streets last night, screaming, honking horns and pointing "number one" fingers skyward after San Francisco handed the Miami Dolphins a 38-16 Super Bowl XIX defeat. 
In the North Beach area just off downtown, a gleeful Mary Jane Gohde announced, "The 49ers were great and this calls for a massive con­sumption of fun and indulgence." Thousands of fans followed her wishes. 
Amidst a hail ofconfetti, celebrant Tom Fitz said the game, where the 49ers won almost everything from the opening coin flip to the last touchdown, brought the whole area together. 
"Here is an example of perfect strangers partying, just getting to­gether and having a good time and celebrating the Super Bowl champi­onship," Fitz said. 
Traffic in the neighborhood was jammed bumper to bumper and convertible tops were down in the cool, foggy night while cruising revelers shouted "We're No. I!" 
Officer Carri Lucas, a spokes­woman for San Francisco police, said most celebrants were peaceful. 
"Everything's fine so far," she said about 30 minutes after the game. 
About 90 minutes after yester­day's game, just five arrests were re­ported. 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame office. locatr:d on the third floor of l.aFortunr: Student Center. accr:pts classified advr:rtising from') a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Maf)..S oll1ce. locatr:d on the third lloor of Haggar College Center. accepts classifieds from 12:.30 p.m. until.~ p.m.. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next·day classifir:ds is :1 p.m. All classifir:ds must be prepaid. either in pr:rson or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per fivr: charac·



Classifieds 

ters er day. 
LOST: TAN LUGGAGE BAG with blue WANTED -Female housemate for a 4-SAVE MONEY!! PURCHASE YOUR Thank you St. Jude straps: may have been left outside Regina bedroom home located 1 o minutes from TEXTS AT PANDORA·s BOOKS,937 Hall:contains mosHy sweaters and campus. $150 per month includes FOR SALE SOUTH BEND AVE.,NEXT TO CORBY"S Ernie, Ernie, Ernie . . what a man! the
NOTICES jeans:if found please call283-2545. utilities. 239-5930 or 291-9644 BAR. 233-2342. violins are playing . remember? they al· ways will ... why? Cause I miss you! your LOST: Men·s high school class ring ROOMATE wanted to share 3 bedroom MAKE MONEY !I SELL YOUR CLASS distraction -Capitol
FLOPPY DISKS 4 SALE 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81197 before break. Silver with blue cut stone. apt. 3 miles from campus. $117/month BOOKS TO PANDORA·s FOR $$ OR
yavoid bookstore ripoff 
Initials on the inside.lf you have found it. including utilities. Call 288-1072 CREDIT ! PANDORA·s BOOKS.937 Wanted: Husband must be tall. very
ONLY $t .50 per. Call John 3592 
TYPING call Dave at 3049. Reward. SO.BEND AVE. 233-2342. handsome. and very rich. Apply at Karen Jackie Boggs THINKING OF LIVING O.C.? APT. ·sroomSMC.
Why RENT when its cheaper to BUY? 
684·8793 Lost: My I.D.. my driver"s liscence, and AVAILABLE NOW FOR UP TO 4 SAB SPRING BREAK SKI TRIP !!! Spend 
Cozy house three blocks from campus is 
(heavy stgh) my senior bar card all PEOPLE. FULLY FURNISHED. 2 5 days and 6 nights in glorious WINTER 1 thuught everything was all right. And
for sale. Call 234-0465 for details. 
encased in that green thing for I.D:s. BATHROOMS-CALL PATRICK AT 3185 PARK COLORADO for only $299 !!!! then the Cute Wednesday Smile EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 Please help me -rm gening hungry! Call I~ INTERESTED. (transpo & lih tix incl.) Info mtg in returned.
BOOKS FOR SALE: CELL BIOLOGY BY 
Mo. 3624. LaFortune Little Theatre on Mon. Jan. 21
KARP AND HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. 
Need a place to live? How 'bout a SPA­at 7 p.m. to collect the first deposit of ATIN. ALL JUNIORS: If still interested in 
CALL3336. 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL IF YOU LOST GLOVES IN ROOM 356 CIOUS 2BR,2B DWELLING very close to $159. To sign up call MICHELLE at 2722 JPW Cabaret/Talent Show. call John 
MRS. COKER, 2»-7009. F!TZPATRICK.CALL NAJI AT campus? U need this apmt' Call Pat 3185 or LIZ at 2761. Cerabino at 3320 by Tuesday, January 1743.PROPER IDENTIFICATION OF 22!1 GLOVES IS REQUIRED. DO 4 SEXY WOMEN INTEREST YOU? OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
IF INTERESTED IN LIVING ACROSS CARRY OUT •TfL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N.,
TICKETS Dawn. l"m looking forward to a fire in
NEED TYPING, CALL DOLORES 277-FOUND: IMITATION RHINESTONE THE HALL FROM THEM .... CALL PAUL ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
March. Don•t run off with a better eskimo. 
11045 NECKLACE BEHIND POST OFFICE AT2545... YOUU THANK ME!! 
Let"s get that Honda on the road. Love,
PICK UP AND DELIVERY BEFORE BREAK. CALL 277-6740 TO 

NEED SYRACUSE BASKETBALL TICK­E.M.
CLAIM YOUR PRECIOUS GEMS. 

ETS DESPRATELY!!!I PLEASE CALLWhere is Gino·s East? 
277-8497 BETIER THAN I ASKED -THANKS ST 
LOST: MY DARK GREY-BLACK TWEED ROOM FURNISHINGS! 
JUDELONG OVERCOAT ... STILL!!! IF YOU If you have a decent rug or couch that 
FOUND IT PLEASE CALL JIM AT 283-NEED 6 Syracuse GA·s. Call Steve 1163 you want to get rid of. please call Dan at 
WANTED 

GUYS: VALENTINES DAY IS RIGHT 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-811117 1156. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. LOST 2057.
AROUND THE CORNER WHY NOT 
AT SENIOR BAR DURING THE DEPENDABLE PART-TIME WAITRESS DAVE LEDERMAN AT NOTRE DAME BUY THAT SPECIAL GIRL 

TYPING AVAILABLE PRIVATE PARTY LAST TUESDAY, AND WANTED. MUST BE 21. FOR APPT, He wants to see the Syracuse game and I ·eQUILIBRIUM STAGE SEPARATION OPERATIONS· OR 'FUNDAMENTALS
287-4082 I"M GETIING PRETIY DAMN COLD'!! CALL 289-8031. ORIGINAL CONEY IS­REALLY need 1 GA. Gall Kevin at 2474 To my honors KK. Thanks for the scarf. LAND REST. for$$$ and/or New Orleans GA. seeyasoon
OF ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY?' FOR 
Lost-on 12/16/84. in 116 o·shag. a SALE CALL MIKE 3336 

TYPING watch With a white face. Roman numerals NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE WEEKEND NEED 2 G.A. ·s FOR SYRACUSE GAME. Cthulu IS a wimp !!! 
JACKIE BOGGS and a black strap. If found. please call OF JAN 26. CALL PAT 1003 CALLx2073. CROM is for real barbarians ! 684-8783 2634. The watch was a graduation pres­!ENGINEERING GRADUATE STUDENT 
IS INTERESTED IN MEETING AN AT­
ent and is of great sentimental value. ROOMMATE WANTED TRACTIVE,INTELLIGENT.THIRD YEAR 

ROOMMATE WANTED Ted Smith for God. As a Republtcan. of
LAW STUDENT HOW ABOUT IT 
LOST: One tear-shaped gold earring be­ROOMMATI: WANTED course.
WENDY??
PERSONALS
tween Lewis and the Credit Union... If ROOMMATE WANTED 
Wen-your helpI found please call Anne 2624 JAN-MAY 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY SHWA-BEAR OMBUDSMAN ·LoST: One long. black. wool coat. If you SENIORS: HOLY CROSS AS­
To the young lady who cuddled next to me xoxo 
ORGANIZATIONAL •found· it in the Commons last Mon. night, LOCIIted behind Turtle Creak off of SOCIATES!! A chance to learn, give,
-at the thurs. 9:00 showing of Stripes-who xoxo 
MEETlNG would you please return it to the Lost and Edlaon. Within 1 mile from NO. S.ml-grow and to love. For more info. call 239­
are you? -a stranger in the nile. BEEMER 
Found In the Ad.Min. Bldg? If you·re not furnlehed, quiet, apacloua, 7949. Wedneeday January 23, 7:30PM Willing to do so. would you at least return r_.onable!l TRANSPORTATION FREDFREDFRED
Giller: ·Finally free to be me!· 
Room 2D LaFortune my room key, mittens or any other item NEEDED! C.ff C.rolet 277-1306. YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL BODY AND you do not desire to keep? lfs a COLD ARE WORTH THE WORLD JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT IT WAS
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
world out there. but rm trying to keep a SAFE TO GO BACK INTO CUSHING­
Student Loans $20-200 1/ Interest 30 warm heart about it! FR. GUIDO SARDUCCI TWO HE.$ BACK!! EMIL II THE SEQUEL--BE
Days 
MALE ROOMATE NEEDED TO SHARE S~IOWS 7:00PM AND 9:00PM SHOWS Basement LaFortune THERE! THREE BEDROOM HOUSE CLOSE TO $5.00 IN ADVANCE AND $6.00 AT THE 
11:30-12:30M-F SCHOOL. CALL NICK AT 289 7132 OR DOOR. TICKETS ON SALE STARTING thanks to st. jude for favor received e.m. 2391684. MONDAY. BUY YOUR TIX NOW FOR THE JANUARY 19TH SHOW! ASPEN!I!ASPENI!!ASPEN!!!
KRI' ROOMATE WANTED TO SHARE SPRING BREAK ·as
Have A Happy 21" Btrthda)
THREE BEDROOM HOUSE TWO When is this test ever going to end? CALL MIKE AT 283-3573 OR LARRY AT 
l:'njoy The Day.
A 
TIENTION: LOST. at Sent or Bar-1 dark MILES FROM CAMPUS. $92 per 283-3630 FOR INFO grey overcoat. with a brown/ black zip-in MONTH plus util. CALL DAN ;239-7666 LAMBCHOP 
Live It Up,
Furnished home available now ha~ mile north of campus. 277-3604. 

liner. Anyone who was at the private party DAYS 234-7412 EVE·S. The fog is terrible!! And Hdve A Couple Of IJRINKS on"'· MARDI GRAS MARDI GRAS MARDI Tuesday night ( January 15) who may ............•....... -1.,5 ~I! GRAS ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING have acctdently taken it please call me at ST. MARY'S: WHERE THE LAKES ARE FOR ANYONE INTERESTED IN BEING 
TWo-FOUR MAN APARTMENT TO SUBLEASE

283-1156, or else return it to the Senior NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND ON COLD AND THE WOMEN ARE TOO. Welcome back LONDONERS' As A COMMISIONER OR COMMITTEE bar lost-and found. WEEKEND OF FEB. 2,3. CAN POS­Vronge would say: Lefs all cop some MEMBER AT LAFORTUNE$ LITILE SIBLY LEAVE THURSDAY. CALL MIKE chow!' No more Europa scones or doner THEATER ON MON. THE21STAT6:30­
,:;;g:;;·i~i;~d;·~l·i~~jj;:·····················
FEB-MAY 

LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETIER JACKET, AT 1688. kabobs. but come to South Dining Hall 7:00. MARDI GRAS MARDI GRAS BLUE AND BLACK WITH NAME ON INTERESTED IN SOME NIGHT WORK! every Weds. night starting Jan. 23 from MARDI GRAS 
Located behind Turtle Creak off of INSIDE POCKET MISPLACED AT PURDUE!! I NEED A RIDE TO PURDUE Join The Ob.-ver production depart­5:00-6:30 for London Program 1984
Edlaon. Within 1 mile from NO. S.ml­

BRIOGETI·s TUESDAY EVENING OR THIS WEEKEND (JANUARY 25 OR 26)!! ment. Layoutel8ff people work 2 hours Reunion. Come to 2nd floor faculty dining MAP, MYM, KELLI, DEB, 
furnlehed, quiet, epacloue,

EARLY WEDNESDAY MORNING. IF YOU ARE PLANNING A ROADTRIP, per .-!<. Opportunity for edv•nc• room, and bring along 25 cents. Please lfs time to start enjoying our second se­
reuonablell C.ll Dorena •t 277-1306 

PLEASE RETURN . NO QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL ·sUSAN· AT PHONE 3570! ment. Stop up to our Notre Dllme office send room 's to Amy at 4003 or 4002 or mester senior year now that comps are
or Llu Merle et 23&-5313 to l•ve 

ASKED. CALLJ.R REID AT 277-7561. and flff out •n eppflcetfon. Peggy at 2731. See you Weds' over. Let"s live it up 'I Love. T
meeuge. 

... 
-~-~---~-------~-~­
The Observer Monday, January 21, 1984-page 11 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 10 
Ascuba-diving courseis being sponsored by NVA. A meeting for anyone interested will be held Thursday, Jan. 24 at 6 
p.m. in Rockne room 219.-The Observer 
A bowling league is being organized by NVA. Four­member teams will compete on four Monday nights, beginning jan. 
28. Rosters with a minimum ofseven members must be submitted to the NVA office by Friday, jan. 25.-The Observer 
NCAA basketballtournamentticketsfor 
the Southeast Regional games to be played at the ACC on March 14 and 16 will go on sale soon. Season-ticket holders may purchase tickets beginning Feb. 1. Students may purchase tickets with the general public beginning Feb. 11. -The Observer 
Interhall basketball refs will be meeting 
Thursday at 4:30 p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC. -The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written.-The Observer 
c1lp and sa\•e-clip and save-clip and save-dip and save-clip and save-clip 111 
n ::l
c t• 


~ ounse tne 
o. 
~. 5 239-7793 
.. 
"c::l»= 
Make th.·s semester spec•·al 

~ by makinga neWfriend -try tape J ~ c-u... r­
.• ~ uo 
~ ~ ~~~l~~~-6" • ftploo1 lat'-7 
111 6 .......be ...tho 'fMuPto 01101 Poo11qo= 7 DMlt.q wt.lh Coelti'\IC:Un ~it'lcl• 
Q. • Doo1~ rith ­
t U•l•ntudlq Jealoua)' ud llqv to Deal With It 10 llowtolay ..... 
11 ...-...,... ......... 
11 Datlat ftllh 
zo r-1• ~~u,. 
Zl llah ._,.exuaUti 
J0 Aa.tet7 ud Po..Uth Wa111 to Cope Wlth It 
S2 .. to Deal wit!l LoM11MII 
33 Row to llud.le fNn 
,. lfte'H&Ila& s.u...-.r...aa 
lS lullcl1111· S.lf-lllt... ud Confidenc• 
J7 lelau.tion Eurci••• • 
Jl Copt.q: 'lf1 th Str••• 
l9 F-1• Sex loh--chaJt&ea and Streaaea 
.0 Kat. Sex lale--Qaanc•• aftCI Stn•••• 
44 Laanlaa to Accept Yovnelf 
61 Whit 11 Tbenpy and Nov to U•e It 
70 IDfatuatlon or Loq? 
13 How to eo,. with • ~Token a.tatlonablp 
16 Dtath ud Drln& 
-15 llnder.tandinl Grief 
90 lt.lpina • Friend 
160 Early Sisu of an alcohol Probln 
Ill a..ponaible Dechi6na about Dri.nllin1 
402 S.lf Aaaertiveneu 
412 E:lulpl.. of Contract luildlna 
U1 What h Depreu.ion 
U2 How to Deal with J)epre..ion 
Ul Dtpreaeion •• a Lifutyle 
411 a.tc•lnl Indepu1•r>t frQi Parent• 
479 O..lln1 with Alc~o~tto1ic Parenta 
491 Suicidal Crhh 
492 R.copizin1 Suicidal Potentlah in Dthen 
493 Helpin1 Sc.eone in a Suicidal Crhh 



PANEL DISCUSSION 
on EATING DISORDERS 
Wednesday, January 23, 1985 6:30-8:00p.m. Counseling and Psychological Services Center 
Topics to be covered: 
What is an eating disorder? What are the nutritional and health implications of an eating disorder? flow do you talk to a friend who may have an eating disorder? Treatment of eating disorders and what treatment is available in this area. 

Panelists: 
Pnt Dunn, M.A., Counseling Psychology 
Martha Erickson, M. r:d., Registered Dietician 
Nancy Schoeneman, M.A., Counseling Psychology 
Sue Steibe, Ph.D., Clinical Psychology 
Mary Theis, M.A., COU':'1~el ing Psychology 

There will be ample-time for qucHtions and answers following the presentation. 
;CQ. 111 


San Fr~tncisco rolls over Dolphins, 38-16, in lopsided Super Bowl win 
Associated Press 
STANFORD, Calif. -)De Montana, making a shambles of the quarter­back showdown with Dan Marino, shattered the Miami Dolphins' defense with his passing and scram­bling and led the Sa:1. Francisco 49ers to a 38-16 victory in Super Bowl XIX yesterday. 
Montana passed for three touch­downs, ran for another and set Super Bowl records with 331 yards passing and 59 on scrambles. He kept the 49ers totally in control, leading them to scores on five straight possessions in the second and third quarters to make the Dolphins, who had the National Football League's second-best record at 16-2, look like overmatched losers. 
It was the second Sup•:r Bowl vic­tory in four years for the 49ers, who finished with an NFL-record 18 vic­tories against one loss. 
Montana was voted the game's most valuable player, matching the award he won in San Francisco's 26­20 victory over Cincinnati in Super Bowl XVI. 
He had exemplary help from Coach Bill Walsh's bag-of-tricks of­fense; from fullback Roger Craig, 
who caught two TD tosses and ran for a record third SCOre, and from a defense whose pressure on Marino 
n exceeded anything a Dolphin op­
~ ponent had been able to do in this : record-breaking season. 
:; Marino was intercepted twice and 
1» sacked four times. In two NFL 
~ 
n seasons, Marino had not been sacked -more than three times in a game; he
! 
,. had been dumped only ~l3 times in 
&. 

------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

i Ill DePaul -6" 
Ill continued/rom page i6
&. 
; We just didn't do that. ~ "We missed too many foul shots,!l and that was the difference between 
-6" 
this game and the Marquette game.
Ill 
::l We did what we wanted to do, get­ting the ball inside, and getting the fouls. But where we shot 88 percent from the line last week, we didn't do that this week. We had our shots, but we didn't hit. That was the problem. I think we did a good job defensively." 
Rivers finished with a game-high 21 points, including 9-of-1 0 free throw shooting, and was the major reason Notre Dame was ~.ble to stay close. Tim Kempton added 13 points and seven rebounds, and Ken 

Montana scrambles, passes his way into 'Super' history 
18 games this season and not at all in two playoff games. 
The game was portrayed as a dream contest between the NFL's two best teams, but the 49ers were clearly better. 
And for this day at least, so was Walsh in his "genius" match with Miami's Don Shula. 
In fact, the game was competitive only in the first period. 
. Miami took a 3-0 lead on the first of three field goals by Uwe von Schamann, lost it on a 33-yard TD pass from Montana to reserve run­ning back Carl Monroe, then got it back again on a brilliantly executed six-play, 70-yard drive engineered by Marino. 
But that 10-7 first quarter lead lasted only until Montana got the ball back. By halftime it was 28-16, by midway through the third period 38-16. That was fine with most ofthe 84,059 fans in Stanford Stadium, just 30 miles south of the 49ers' home base at Candlestick Park. 
But there were other heroes besides Montana. 
His offensive line allowed him to be sacked only once and more often than not, he could have been in a rocking chair, looking around for receivers. When there were no receivers open, he simply took off. 
The 49er defense, meanwhile, did what few teams could this season 
Barlow had 12 points and six rebounds, but neither had the kind ofgame that was needed to give the Irish a victory. 
For DePaul, Corbin was stopped in the second half, and finished with 18 points, on 9-of-14 shooting, and six rebounds. The senior forward was named the winner of Notre Dame's Wendall Smith award as the outstanding player of the game. The award is named for the late Chicago sportswriter who died in 1972. 
Dallas Comegys added 12 points, all in the second half, while Kenny Patterson hit five of seven free throws in the second half to finish with 11. Kevin Holmes added 10 
oints and six rebounds for the Blue 
:mons. 

Notre Dame fell to 8-4 with the loss, but the Irish proved to a na­tional television audience that they 



ENRC>LL NOWII 
No~treDame 
Tae Kuvon Do Club 
FIRST (~LASS FREE!! 

January22 

7: p.m. 
Ace: Fencing Gym Bring 'work-out clothes 
against Marino in a season in which he shattered NFL records with 48 touchdown passes and 5,084 yards. 
With few exceptions -once on that first-quarter drive in which the Dolphins operated twice without a huddle to keep San Francisco from running its multiple defenses ­Marino was forced to dump off rather than throw his customary deep patterns to the Marks Brothers, Clayton and Duper. 
Much of the credit went to a sec­
• 

ondary that forced Marino out ofhis quick-release rhythm and forced him to hold the ball a second longer as Fred Dean, Dwaine Board and the rest ofthe defense poured in on him. 
For the 49ers, it was also a victory for balanced offense. 
San Franciso picked up 211 yards on the ground, with Wendell Tyler leading the way with 65 yards in 13 carries and Craig adding 58 on 1 5 runs. The Dolphins, meanwhile, could pick up only 25 against a 49er defense that gave up only one touch­down in three playoff games. 
Montana's 59 yards on five rushes broke the record of 3 7 set in Super Bowl XIII by Dallas' Roger Staubach and his 331 yards, on 24-of-35 pass­ing, broke the record of 318 set by Pittsburgh's Terry Bradshaw in Super Bowl XIV. 
Marino finished with 318 yards on 29 of 50. 
A 
can be competitive with a Top 10 team like the Blue Demons. 
"We did some things well today," noted Barlow. "We kept the game close and we had them down at one point. But we didn't do the things we had to do to put them away, then we got ourselves in the awkward situa­tion ofhaving to foul and hoping that they would miss the free throws." 
Yesterday's Results DePaul 71, Notre Dame 66 DePaul (71) 
M FG-A FT-A R F 

p Corbin 40 9-14 0-0 6 4 18 Holmes 29 5-7 0-0 6 3 10 Embry 22 3-5 2-2 9 4 8 West 19 3-6 0-0 4 5 6 Patterson 40 3-7 5-7 6 3 11 Jackson 21 3-5 0-1 1 3 6 Comegys 29 4-12 4-6 5 3 12 200 3D-56 11-16 37 25 71 FG Pet. -.536. FT Pet. -.688. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers -17. Assists · 9 (Patterson 5). Technicals-none. Notre Dame (66) M FG-A FT-A R F 
p Dolan 27 1-4 0-0 5 3 2 Barlow 36 5-11 2-3 6 5 12 Kempton 32 6-9 1-3 7 3 13 Rivers 4o 6-18 9-10 2 2 21 Hicks 34 3-10 2-3 5 3 8 Spencer 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Royal 18 1-3 6-7 2 1 8 Beeuwsaert 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Duff 2 0-0 0-0 0 3 0 Peters 1 0-1 o-o 0 0 0 Price 5 1-1 0-0 1 0 2 Voce 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 200 23-57 20.26 28 20 66 FG Pet. -.404. FT Pet. -.769. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers -12. Assists -9 (Barlow 4). Technicals-none. Halftime-DePaul 37, Notre Dame 33. Officials-John Dabrow, Rick Wulkow, J. 
C. Leimbach (all Big Eight). A-11,345 (c). 
Thankstoyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
•
United way 
----~------------------------~-~~~------­
-------~~~------­

The Observ ~r .Monday,)anuary 21, 1984-page 12 


Notre Dame drops eighth straight at Forester Clas~ic during weekend 
By ED DOMANSKY second period, the Irish scored two beat Lukemia for the first of three .\ports Writer powerplay goals of their own to tie Forester goals in the second period. the score at 4-4 at the end of the "We played well, considering we LAKE FOREST. Ill. -The Notre second period. were missing three of our key 
Dame hockey team was here in Lake AThebeau slapshot from the right people," said winger Rich Sobilo. Forest this weekend hoping to redis­poim made it 4-3 at 6:26. McNeill "The loss of Dave (Waldbillig) also cover what it takes to get hack on a then capitalized on some nice pa~ses hurt. But the game wa~ closer than winning path. from Thebeau and Tim Reilly to slip the score indicates." 
The Forester Classic was the the puck past Doyle from the corner The best Notre Dame scoring event, and unfortunately, the Irish of the crease. chance of the second period came at gained little in meeting their goaL Notre Dame nearly scored two 7:27 when Nickodemus was Notre Dame dropped a 9-6 decision more times in the period, but Doyle stopped on a breakaway by Forester to Bowdoin College in the first got help from the post at 12: 10 and goalie Gary Willett. round of the two-day tourney. The I 7:27 after shots by Chapman and lbebeau and Mooney made it 3-2 Irish then howed, S-2, to host Lake 'Ibebeau had eluded his grasp. with goals at 4:42 and 9:47 of the Forest in Saturday's consolation After Bowdoin jumped out to a 6-final period. game. 4 lead before the midway point of But two Lake Forest goals by 
Notre Dame ( 5-13) recemly the final period, McNeill and Reilly Marty Wittmer at 10:58 and 16:16 finished fourth in the Phoenix tallied within 1:27 starting at 11:52 helped secure the victory for the Mutual Hockey Classic in Hartford, to tie the score at 6-6. Foresters. Conn., over Christmas hreak and The Polar Bears got the first of The Irish fell victim to the post was looking to finish much better in their final three goals at 17:27. three times in the third period. Nick­the Lake Forest event. In Saturday's consolation game, odemus found the metal 1:30 into 
The O~rvcr/Ed Doman.liky
"I really thought we could have neither team was able to capitalize the period. McNeill then hit the post 

junior co-captain Bob Thebeau scored, along with freshman
taken it," said Irish coach Lefty in the fast-paced, close-checking near the midway point. Reilly found 
Tom Mooney, in lastFriday's contest againstBowdoin College, but
Smith. "But at times we didn't pass opening period. himself with a nearly empty net be­
it was not enough as the Irish fell, 5-2, on the first day of the
well and we didn't convert on The game remained scoreless un­hind an outstretched Willett with 
Forester Classic tn Lake Forest, Ill. Ed Domansky profiles the
scoring chances that we had." til the II:3 7 mark of the second per­7:40 remaining, but again the post 
weekend's action at left.
The Irish remain winless in 10 iod when Lake Forest's Ken Spencer saved Willett. 

without the services of co-captain Brent Chapman, Steve Whitmore and Rob Ricci. All three had to miss the game as a result ofa fighting inci­dent in Friday's third period which started when Whitmore was speared hy a Bowdoin player in a crowd be­hind the Irish net. 
Chapman and Ricci will also miss Wednesday night's rematch with Lake Forest at the ACC due to previ­ous game disqualification penalties. 
The Irish will miss left wing Dave Waldbillig, who left in the first per­iod of Saturday's contest with a separated shoulder. 
Notre Dame goalies Marc Guay and Tim Lukenda turned away 3 I and 36 shots against the Polar Bears and Foresters respc:ctivc:ly. 
Mike McNeill led Irish scorers on Friday night with two goals. Bob
•t 
Thebeau and Tom Mooney tallied for Notre Dame in the 5-2 loss. 
Bowdoin scored three times in the: last 2:33, including an empty-net goal, to break a 6-6 deadlock in route to its victory. 
John Nickodemus got the Irish on the board just 2:07 into the game. But hy the first intermission, the Polar Bears had taken a 3-2 lead. 
Chapman scored at 13:52 of the same: period as he knocked home a loose: puck from a crowd in front of Bowdoin goalie Frank Doyle to tie the score at 2-2. 
Jim Wixtead then converted for the first of his three goals on the night at 16:08 to give the Polar Bears the 3-2 lead. 
After a Bowdoin powerplay goal by Hilary Rockett at 3: 19 of the 

Irish 
AllYou Can Eat S~cial.S6.95. 
continuedfrom page 16 
against UCLA, on Dec. 1 I, 1979, with Bill Hanzlik and Rich Branning 
Sunday through-rhursday.
lc:ading the way down the aisles of 
the student section. 'Inc Irish won 
Hurry in to Red Lobster®now and you won7t want to hurry out.
that game, 77-74. 
Even though we lost this one, Because every Sunday through Thursday; you can feast on as 
however, that doesn't mean that he 
won't bother about the fans much seafood as you want. 
anymore. Phelps ha~ learned over Choose from five delicious Red Lobster favorites: Popcorn® 
the years how important the stu­
dents' support can be. He has seen Shrimp7 Clam Strips; Broiled and Fried fish7 or our scrumptious new 
what happened to the football team 
favorite Golden Scallops. 

when the students sat back and 7 
wanted the team to prove itself But you7re not limited to one choice. After you finish one kind 
worthy of their support. 
of seafood7 you can switch to another. Then another.
Wednesday night the basketball 

team will be hack in the ACC for an­But come in soon. Our seafood is endless............ 
other important game. Phelps may or may not try some gimmicks to fire But our offer isn7t. Red Lobster® up the crowd. but one thing is sure: the fans have the ability to make the ACC a very scary place for oppo­
Most Ma.Jor Cred1t Cards Accepted. 201 W. McKinley, Mishawaka <t'J 1985 Red Lobster Inns orAmerica.
nents. It will be a shame if the stu­dent body doesn't play up to its potentiaL 






----------------------------~-.~----------------~~------------------~ 
The Observer Monday,January 21, 1984-page 13 
Women 
continuedfrom page 16 
hind by seven at the half( 40-33) and never could get closer than five the rest of the way. 
"Breaking the press -that was the key," explained Bruce. "We told the kids that if we could execute our half-court offense, we'd be in good shape. Detroit doesn't like playing defense for more than 1 0 seconds, and they really got frustrated when we made them." 
Once Notre Dame forced the Titans to play at its tempo, the Irish began to pass the ball inside to take advantage of their superior height. Forward Mary Beth Schueth scored four early points on layups and cen­minutes in the first half, she dominated the boards on both ends of the court, scoring 12 points and pulling down seven rebounds. Her performance boosted the Irish to a 35-24Iead. 
Detroit fought back when Botham sat down, however, and closed the lead to 35-31 with 1:23 left in the half. That was as close a:; the Titans would get. 
Botham picked right up where she left off before she went out, scoring nine more points and pick­ing up seven more rebounds to finish with 21 point:; and 14 rebounds, both career highs. 
"That's the most aggressive she's played all year," said Eruce. "She started out real well this season, then kind of slumped ofi She prob­ably just tried to do too rnany things. But she's been playing better in practice, so it doesn't surprise me that she played so well." 
With Botham making her pres­ence felt so much, and with Bates, Schueth and Trena Keys also scoring in double figures, the Titans never had a chance. Pack, who had picked up three quick fouls in tb e first half, fouled out with only four points and four rebounds. Although Titan guard Regina Pierce led all scorers with 26 points, Detroit never was closer than nine during the final 1 0 minutes ofthe game. 
"This was really a big win for us," said Bruce, who saw the Irish im­prove their record to 8-6 1-0 in the North Star. "Supposedly, they were the preseason pick to win the con­ference, but we beat them by 14 in their own gym. 
"We'll have to build off this game. Now the girls can see what happens when they are patient and control 

the tempo." "lbe Ubserver/johanne~ Hacker 

IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame will 

The Notre Damegameplan worked to near-perfection Saturday, 
not have much time to enjoy the 

as senior center Carrie Bates and the Irish women upset Detroit, 
win, though, as it will continue its 

76-62, this weekend in Calihan Hall. The Irish completely con­
conference play next weekend with 

trolled the tempo, with freshman Sandy Botham leading the way 
games in Chicago against Loyola 

with a career-highs 21 points and 14 rebounds. Mike Sullivan 
(Friday) and DePaul (Sunday). 

details the game onpage 16. 

Delivery Available On Orders: 
(5°0 minimum order) 
$1°0 charge within 2 mile radius 
ter Carrie Bates added three of her own to help the Irish offset some good shooting by the Titans. Detroit was able to move out in front, 12-11, when Cassandra Pack, averaging 1 9 points a game, hit a layup for her third and fourth points of the game. 
It was at this point, though, that the game became all Notre Dame's. When senior guard Laura Dougherty swished a 15-foot jumper with 13:11 remaining in the half, the Irish took the lead for good at 13-12. 
Seconds later, freshman forward Sandy Botham entered the game. A starter during the first several games this year, the 6-2 Botham had moved to the bench as her performance dropped off slightly. Against the Titans, though, she proved that she can contribute to the Notre Dame cause in a big way. In less than 10 




Box Score 

Notre Dame women (76) Detroit women (62) 
M FG-A FT-A R F p M FG-A FT-A R F p Keys 28 5-11 2-3 7 4 12 Pack 18 1-5 2-4 4 5 4 Schueth 31 5-9 4-5 9 0 14 Howard 35 4-12 0-1 10 5 8 Bates 19 5-8 2-3 2 1 12 Wydryck 38 4-8 0-1 6 3 8 Gavin 36 1-3 0-1 1 1 2 Pierce 40 12-25 2-4 6 4 26 Dougherty 33 2-7 2-2 2 5 6 Pearce 26 3-7 2-4 1 3 8 Both am 24 9-14 3-4 14 3 21 Smith 28 4-7 0-0 6 2 8 Kaiser 10 0-1 1-3 5 0 1 Tennant 7 0-1 0-0 0 2 0 Brommeland 6 2-4 0-0 0 0 4 Austin 8 0-1 0-0 1 1 0 Basford 6 0-0 0-0 0 2 0 200 28-66 6-14 34 25 62 Ebben 7 1-2 2-2 0 0 4 FG Pet. -.424. FT Pet. -.429. Team 
200 3D-59 16-23 40 15 76 rebounds-0. Turnovers -12. Assists-10 
FG Pet. .509. FT Pet. -.696. Team (Pierce, Pearce 3). Technicals-none. rebounds-0. Turnovers-17. Assists-14 Halftime -Notre Dame 40, Detroit 33. (Dougherty 7). Technicals-none. Officials-Joe Hummel, Ed Koors,. 
SObering Advice/_ 



~~~~;~~~N
Before You Drive •· 
$1 50 charge within 3 mile radius
1132 S. South Bend Avenu~e 
232.9311 
MENU 
Tip  Chicken  Hamburgers  
Mini Tip  Round House  Cheeseburgers  
Rib  Shrimp  Rib Eye Steak  
Rib Slab  Fish  Sirloin Steak  
Beef  French Fries  T-Bone Steak  

Beverages include pop, beer & wine. Ask about our combination dinners, and keep watching for the surprise of 1985. 


NEW HOURS 

MON-WED THURSDAY FRI-SAT 

Dine In/Carry Out 
2 p.m. 8p.m. 12p.m. lOp.m. 12p.m. 1 a.m. 12p.m. ? 
Delivery 
2p.m.  7p.m.  
4p.m.  9p.m.  
4p.m.  12a.m.  
4p.m.  12a.m.  


•------------cOUPON----------­
I 1 ONE FREE CUP OF BEER i I with any 1I Large Tip Dinner purchase 1 
I II
1 MONDAY e TUESDAY e WEDNESDAY ,I LIMIT ONE COUPON PER CUSTOMER 
I 

II Coupon expires January 23, 1985 Must be 21 I 

~------------------------------1 
$1°0 OFF i Large Tip Dinner i 
I I

**SUNDAYS ONLY** I I
LIMIT ONE COUPON PER DINNER 
I 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--· COUPONEXPIRESFEBRUA~24,198S._J 

The Observer 
Monday, January 21, 1984 -page 14 

high jumper Lloyd Constable .set a new meet, ACC, ami Notre Dame record with a jump of 7-2. Nick Schrantz describes the meet at right. 
sweptall threeplaces in the triplejump, am/junior 

Belles fall to 2-9 after 69-51 defeat 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Sports Writer 
'Ibe Saint Mary's basketball team lost to fellow NAJA conference member Franklin College Saturday afternoon, 69-S I, at the Angela Ath­letic Facility in the Belles' first home game in almost two months. Saint Mary's' record now stands at .2-9 after a split at the National Catholic BasketbaJJ Tournament in Dubuque, Ia. and a loss to Manchester over the semester break. 
"They just heat us on the boards and had better execution," said Head Coach Marvin Wood after the Franklin contest. "We hope to turn things around and bounce back." 
The Belles stayed with their oppo­nents throughout the first half. Freshman forward Donna Wolf en­tered the line-up I 0 minutes into the game and hit her first three shots while sophomore guard Kris Pan­telleria followed suit with a layup to pull the Belles within a basket -l 5­
13. The score then seesawed before 
Saint Mary's went to the locker room 
with a slim 28-27 halftime edge. 
Early in the second haJf, however, Franklin outscored its hosts, ll-2, and the Belles were forced to play catch-up baJI the rest of the way, never regaining the momentum. 
Wolffinished with 14 points on 7­of-1 0 shooting from the field. Fresh­man guard Tammye Radke paced the Belles with 12 points along with six assists. Pantelleria, senior for­ward Elaine Suess and freshman cen­ter Stephanie Duke added six points apiece to aid in the Belles' cause. Senior center Betsy Ebert led Saint Mary's in the rebounding category with five. 
Last Tuesday the Belles traveled to North Manchester, ln. where ac­cording to Wood, tht: Belles played "a sluggish game." Manchester earned a 64-54 triumph by capitaliz­ing on Saint Mary's' poor free throw shooting coupled with 27 Belle turnovers. 
"They (Manchester) were a lot bigger than we were and they just 

*********************************** 
: ATIENTION i 
l SAINT MARY'S REPORTERS t 
: AND INTERESTED STUDENTS ~ f There will be a mandatory meeting for all Saint~ ~ Mary's reporters, Tuesday, January 22 at 6:30 at it ~ The Observer's SMC office-3rd floor Haggar 
i 

~ CoJJege Center. AU students interested in working it 
• for The Observer should attend. ic
*********************************** 

HUNTING 
Join The Observer Production dept. 
Learn newspaper layout and have fun too. This involves nighttime hours. Stop by the LaFortune office for an application and more info. 
beat us at the line," commented Wood. 
OnJan. I 0-1 I Saint Mary's partici­pated in the National Catholic Tour­ney. 
Saint Mary's opened up against a Georgian Court team of NewJersey, who finished third in the tourney last year. The Belles played well and cashed in on 14 of 15 free throw at­tempts. But it was not enough as the Georgian Court, which featured an all-American, took advantage of the Belles Jack of height and simply overpowered the Belles on the boards. 
Saint Mary's' opponent the follow­ing day was Rosary College of Illi­nois. After leading, 46-23, at the half, the Belles went on to bury Rosary, 80-SI. 




Irish indoor track team shows promise in meet 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame indoor track team showed great promise in several events, especially the jump­ing events and middle length dashes, but weaknesses in other areas allowed the visiting University of Iowa Hawkeyes to defeat the Irish, 74-57, Saturday at the ACC. 
In the three jumping events (long jump, high jump, and triple jump) the Irish garnered .21 out of30 possi­ble points and captured first place in all of the events. Notre Dame jumpers swept all three places in the triple jump and also took first and third in the long jump. 
Senior co-captain James Patterson won both the long jump and triple jump, as well as demonstrating his versatility by also competing in the high jump and the 60-yard high hurdles. He triple jumped 48 feet, six and three-fourth inches, only a halfinch away from the meet record, and leapt .24 feet, six and three­fourth inches in the long jump. 
The outstanding individual effort of the meet was turned in by junior high jumper Lloyd Constable. Con­stable won the high jump with a leap of 7-.2, which was a new meet, ACC, and Notre Dame record. He won the meet with his jump of6-10, and then proceeded to clear the bar at 7-0 and 7-.2, which broke his own Notre Dame record of7-0 set in 198.2. Con­stable barely failed in his three at­tempts at seven feet, three and one-half inches, which is the NCAA qualifying height. 
Van Pearcy had an excellent day in winning both the 300-and 440­yard dashes. He Jed the field in the 440-yard dash the whole way and won in a time of 48.97. He later captured the 300-yard dash in a time of 31.38, good for seventh place on the all-time Notre Dame list. 
Two other Irish competitors scored in two events. Mitch Van Eyken placed third in the 440-yard 
dash and second in the 300-yard 
dash. Also, Joel Autry finished third 
in both the long jump and the triple 
jump. 
After the meet Irish head coach Joe Piane was disappointed with the loss, but was pleased with several of his performers. 
"James Patterson and Lloyd Con­stable did terrific in the field events, while Van Pearcy had the best per­formance on the track," Pianc said. "Chris Matteo (pole vault), Tony Ragunas ( 60-yard dash), Paul Duvair (880-yard run), Dan Garrett (two­mile run), Mitch Van Eyken, and Dan Shannon ( 600-yard dash) all did nice, respectable jobs for us." 
'Jbe two biggest surprises for the Irish were the performance~ of fn·shmen Duvair and Ragunas. Duvair barely nudgnl ahead of teammate John McNelis to capture second place in the 880-yard run with a time of I :S8.0S. Ragunas sprinted to a time of 6.58 in the 60­yard dash. good enough for second place. 
'Ibe Hawkeyes were strong in the shot put and 60-yard high hurdles (in which they swept all three scoring places), the pole vault, 60­yard dash, and I000-yard run. Iowa also won the 600-yard dash, 800­yard run, two-mile run, and the mile relay. lbe Hawkeyes opened up an early lead and then held on to win by their 17-point margin. 
Gary Kostrubala of Iowa set a meet record by winning the shot put with a toss of 55-I 0. Other fine Haw­keye performances were turned in by Dan Waters, who won the mile run and finished second in the I000­yard run; Ronnie McCoy, who tied for the win in the 60-yard high hurdles, finished second in the long jump, and was on the victorious m_ile relay team; and Pat McGhee, who won the 600-yard dash, took third in the 60-yard high hurdles, and anchored the mile relay team. 


HBO...The Healthcare Service Company 
At HBO & Company, our superior technology and exceptional employees have made our products the authoritative choice in in-house, minicomputer-based hospital information, financial and departmental systems. 
HBO & Company currently has a need for new college graduates to fill the Associate position. This position offers exciting career opportunities for bright, competitive, team­oriented graduates in the area of system Installation/sales training. HBO & Company offers an extended training program and will make positions available beginning in July 1985 in the following office locations: 
Atlanta Pittsburgh  Chh:ago Louisville  Dallas San Francisco  
Philadelphia  

Position qualifications include: 
• 
Bachelor's degree with an overall GPA of 3.0 (4.0 scale) during last 2 years 

• 
Excellent leadership qualities as exemplified in past achievement 

• 
Exceptional written and verbal communications skills 

• 
Open to all majors. Sonie computer exposure preferred 


If you are looking for an exciting fast track career opportunity in system installation/sales training and are bright, competitive and team­oriented, HBO & Company would like to talk with you. 
A representative from HBO & Company will be interviewing on your campus on 
February 6 & 7 

Check with your career counselor or placement office today to sign up for an interview. Don't miss out on this~~iting career opportunity! 
Mike Ewing HBO & COMPANY 301 Perimeter Center North Atlanta, GA 30346 (404) 393-6000 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 

The Way ItS ShaRingUp,Shouldn't You Be On Our Team? 





~c:tcJlC3l~--------------------------------------M_o_n_da_y_,J_a_n_uruy---2-1_,1_9_8_4___
P_ag_e_1_5 
lheFarSide Gary Larson 

Doonesbury 
Tank McNamara 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 

for late night munchies 
1~.0. T-SHIRT SHOP 
in the southeast corner ofLaFortune Basement 
Hours: Monday and Wednesday 3:00-5:00 Tuesday, Thursday, Friday 1:00 • 3:00 
Call239·5157 for more info. on our rock bottom prices 
Garry Trudeau 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 39 Rogue 70 Glasgow native 13 Request 
1 Cavort 40 Eagerly 71 Rhythm 21 Fruit drink 
5 Duo excited 72 Withered 22 A Caesar 
9 Leash 41 Tidal bore 73 Drink to 26 Family tree Friday's Solution 14 Chin. nurse 43 Hindu land excess specialist 15 Take the bus grant 28 Precious 16 Oyster find 44 Ignited anew 30 Caroled 17 Agra dress 46 Control 31 Russ. name
DOWN 18 Esau's land 47 Fire deity 1 Grate 19 Join 46 Motive 

2 Slouan 32 Trailer
50 Ellipse 
3 Cal. county 33 Young salmon 
52 Regale

20 Stamp col· 4 Linguistics 
34 Curved molding lector specialist 35 Ms Falana 
23 Meadow 5 Sham
55 Lyric poem 

24 Battery part 6 Assistant
58 Mercatoria! 
37 Growold25 Prick Item 7 Falsegods 38 Musical group 

61 Rock specialist 

42 Letter 27 Give tempo· 64 Fr. school 8 Send payment wrapper 
rarlly 66 lt. resort 9 Russ. satellite 45 Naval missile 29 Double dagger 10 Decade 49 Malden name 33 Gameon 67 Ratio words 11 Shore bird word 
horseback 66 Leading 12 Comedian 51 Gl address 36 Chair 69 Sleep like -Johnson 53 Mapbook 



-~ 

Although an unexplained phenomenon, there Is a place on the outskirts of Mayfield, Neb., where the sun does nol shine. 
54 Hackneyed 60 Sonnet 56 Kind of dance 62 Aroma 57 Bar legally 63 Carry 58 Beef 65 Once around 59 Pain the track 

©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
1/21/85

All Rights Reserved 

Campus . 
•3:30 
p.m. Economics Seminar, "Mechanization, Unionization, and the Decline of the Piece rate system in the California Canneries," Martin L. Brown, California State University, Chico, Room 124 Hayes·Healy. 

•6:00 
p.m. · Student Senate Meeting, Room 122 Hayes-Healy. 

•6:30 
p.m. · Mardi Gras Organizational Meeting, Little Theater, sponored by Student Ac· tivities Board. 

•7:00 
· Auditions for Sophocles' Electra, O'Laughlin Auditorium. Information in 110 Moreau HalL 

•7 
and 9 · Film, "The Decameron," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7 
and 9:15 p.m. · Film, "Missing," Engineering Auditorium, $1. 

•7 
p.m.· Meeting, American Lebanese Club, ISO Lounge. 

•
7 p.m. · Meeting, SAB Spring Break Ski Trip to Winter Park, Colo., Little Theater, pay $I 59 deposit. 

•7·9 
p.m. · Presentation, Proctor and Gamble, Sr./Jr. Cheg, ME, EE, CE, MBA with technical degree, University Club. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 

•7·9 
p.m. · Presentation, First National Bank of Chicago, Fin., Acct., and Econ. seniors, Alumni Room, Morris Inn. Sponsored by Career and Place· ment Services. 

•8 
p.m. ·Lecture, "The American Enlightenment," Gordon Wood, Brown University, Galvin Auditorium. 

•9 
p.m. · Film, "Hot Dog," LaFortune, sponsored by Sophomore Advisory Council. 



TV Tonight 
8:00p.m.  16  1V Bloopers and Practical Jokes  
22  "My  Wicked,  Wicked  Ways:  The  
Legend of Errol Flynn"  
28  Hardcastle and McCormick  
34  Wonderworks "]en's Place"  
9:00p.m.  16  Movie "Bronco Billy"  
28  Movie "Scandal Sheet"  

34 American Playhouse "Noon Wine" 10:30p.m. 34 Film "The Standup" ll:OOp.m. 22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 34 Movie "Penny Serenade" 
11:30p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 Simon & Simon/McMillan 28 ABC News Nightline 
12:00a.m. 16 Tonight Show 28 Love Connection 

• 

! l j 



Monday,January 21, 1984 -page 16

S~orts 
Corbin leads DePaul in 71-66 victory over Irish 
Rivers' 21 in vain as Irish fail in bid to upset lOth-ranked Blue Demons on home court 
Notre Dame's loss is a disappointment, but there's plenty of basketball left to be played 
Tim Lukenda andBob Thebeaufightfor thepuck in the weekend's Forester Classic at Lake Forest,///. The Irish were hoping to end their losing streak, but came out on the short ends ofa 9-6 score to Bow-


By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
At a press conference last Thursday, Irish coach Digger Phelps reasoned that his team would have a legitimate chance ofupsetting lOth­ranked DePaul ifthe score remained in the 60s and 70s, as opposed to the

• 
last meeting between the two teams which finished in the 80s and 90s. As it turned out yesterday, Phelps was right · the Irish had the chance to win; in fact, they had several oppor­tunities to pull out a victory, but things never quite fell into place as DePaul came out on top, 71-66. 
The Irish tried everything, from distributing yellow pompons to the fans, to a pre-game entrance through the student section, to new gold uniforms, but came up short on the scoreboard. 
The Blue Demons, who had lost three straight road games, were struggling coming into yesterday's game but used the ACC as a place to get things started again. 
"The team was starting to pull apart and confidence was eroding," 
ByPHILWOLF 
The Obscnrer /Pete Laches AssistantSports Editor 
SophomoreScottHicks bada badshooting dayyesterday against JOth-ra,ked DePaul, going only three-of-10 from the field, but he It had all the makings of a great was"otalone· as a team the Irish shot only40percentfor thegame game. as the Blue Demons pulled out a 7I-66 triumph at the ACC. Notre Dame, unranked, was going 
up against a Top 10 team at the ACC. There have been situations like that before, and several big teams have



Irish defeat Detroit 
been upset. 
After a close victory at Marquette last week, the Irish took advantage of a chance to build up their confi­


as Botham nets 21 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
DETROIT · The Notre Dame wo· 

men's basketball team knew exactly 
what it had to do when it took on 
presea~on North Star Conference fa­
vorite Detroit in hostile Calihan Hall 
on Saturday. 
Cut down on the speedy Titans' 
transition baskets. 
Control the boards. 
Avoid a large number of turn­
overs. 
Take advantage of the Detroit 
press. 
Very rarely does a game plan work exactly as it is supposed to, but it does happen every now and then. One of those times was Saturday when the Irish played a near-perfect game to beat Detroit, 76-62, and start out their conference schedule on the right foot. 
"I think this wao; our best overall performance of the year," said Assis­tant Coach Greg Bruce who is in his first year on Mary DiStanislao's staff. "The low number of turnovers, our dominance on the boards, our good field-goal percentage and our tough tt.·am defense · everything really went well." 
It wao; no secret that the Titans were going to try to turn the game into a track meet. Detroit coach Dewayne Jones had built the pro­gram around some smaller, quicker players who took advantage of their speed to force a large number of turnovers. The strategy had worked against the Irish la<;t year in Detroit when the Titans had forced a high­scoring game that saw Detroit beat Notre Dame, 8';-80. 
said DePaul coach Joey Meyer. "The only thing that can build up confi· dence is a big win on the road. It's been a long time since I could smile after a road game. It's hard to win at the ACC, but our guys showed a lot ofpoise." 
DePaul, 12· 3, got the big win they needed at Notre Dame's expense, but it didn't come easy. The Blue Demons put Notre Dame in in a big hole early, going up, 23-10, in the first nine minutes, but the Irish battled back to within two, 33·31, on two Donald Royal free throws with 2:32 left in the half. DePaul led, 37-33, at intermission, on the strength ofTyrone Corbin's 16 first­halfpoints. 
1be Irish kept battling in the second halfand finally took the lead, 48-47, midway through the half on a pair of David Rivers free throws. Rivers hit two more free throws a minute later to put the Irish up by three, but Corbin's !8-footer got DePaul going again. The lead then changed hands three more times before Marty Embry hit a tip-in with six minutes left to put DePaul ahead 
everything they could to help the guys on the court. 
But it didn't work. The Top l 0 team won, and the thinly clad fans were twice as cold on the way home as they had been on the way to the game. The campus was silent but for the crunch of the dry snow ·under­foot. 
So it wasn't one of those big Notre Dame upsets people have heard so much about. It.wasn't one of those unforgettable "Notre Dame Moments."_ But was the game a total disaster? No. 
Sure, the Irish had a good chance to upset the Blue Demons, but the fact is, the better team won yester­day. That fact shouldn't be too hard to swallow. Digger Phelps said he was upset that his team wasn't able to pull off the upset, but he didn't pretend that Notre Dame was the better team. 
• 
"DePaul's a very talented team," Phelps poimed out, noting that the Blue Demons performed very well under pressure. "We're just strug­gling to get to where we should be as far as good enough to play in the NCAA tournament, and you're talking about a team (DePaul) that should be in the Final Four." 
Whether or not one agrees with Phelps that DePaul is a Final Four team, it would he hard to argue with his assessment of the Irish. A victory yesterday would have been a great boost for Notre Dame, and it would have improved the team's chances of getting a tournament bid, but the contest was not a "must-win" game for the Irish. Eventually, though, the games will present "must-win" situa­tions. The team will have to get to the point where it is good enough to beat the tough competition if it is to be in the championship tournament. 
So yesterday's loss becomes one of those games that coaches like to call "a learning experience." And the lessons the Irish learned from it are not all bad. lbey learned that they can stay with one of the best teams in the country. They know that they had several opportunities to put the game away, and they know that they worked hard for every chance they had. lbey also know that there still are 16 games left this season, and there will be other chances to beat some good teams. 
Now Digger Phelps and his team have to figure out why they couldn't pull it off yesterday. They have to fig­ure out what they can do differently in future games to come away vic­torious. 'Ibey have to make sure they play up to their potential. 
One thing Phelps always has had a knack for is getting the crowd fired 
· up. He borrowed Gerry Faust's "come-out-in-green-after-warming­up-in-white trick" for the Indiana game, and he gave it a twist yester­day, when the team also had gold uniforms to wear. He had hi!\ players enter the arena through the student section, hoping they might absorb some of the enthusiasm that flooded the ACC. He tried somethin~-t similar 
see IRISH, page 12 
to stay, 'i'i-54. Notre Dame had several opportunities to go back on top, hut couldn't convert. 
Overall, the Irish were hurt by poor free throw shooting in the second half ( I 1 of l 7 from the line), inconsistent field shooting all after· noon ( 40 percent), and lack of rebounding (DePaul had 12 more boards than Notre Dame). 
"I think we had plenty ofopportu­nities to win the game," said Phelps. "Especially when we went up by three. And we had plenty of oppor­tunities when we were behind, but we missed a lot of foul shots. But I think DePaul is a very talented team and did a lot ofgood things that they had to do under pressure. We had spurts to get them but we didn't, es· pecially in the first halfwhen we got back to within four, and also in the second half. I can't be upset with that. The only thing I'm upset with is the missed foul shots and when we had key scoring opportunities and didn't come through. That's some· thing you have to do in big games. 
see DePAUL, page 11 
In Saturday's game, however, the Irish never let the Titans get control of the tempo. They handled Detroit's press easily · so easily, in fact, that Jones finally decided to pull his team back into a zone defense. Unable to get their transi­tion game going, the Titans fell be­
see WOMEN, page 13 
dence against Holy Cross on Wed­nesday. They were ready to play the big boys. They were ready to make another upset happen. 
1be students were ready, too. All week, they had been looking for­ward to coming out to be part ofthe big game. They dressed up in tropi­cal clothes, they made their signs, they yelled, they screamed, they waved their pompons. They did 
-

doin College and a 5-2 decision to hostLake Forest 
in the tourney. Ed Domansky caps the Classic on page 12. 









