
Notre Dame 1885 -page 7 
VOL XX, NO. 67 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 11,1985 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Financial troubles close campus computer store 
ByALEX PELTZER 
StaffReporter 
University officials are currently looking to restore the campus com­puter shop, which was left vacant by the financially crippled General Microcomputer company last week. 
General Micro filed for bankruptcy under chapter 11 last week, said Thomas Mason, vice president for business affairs. As a result, the computer equipment and service shop in the basement of LaFortune has remained closed since Dec.2. 
General Micro officials were not available to explain their financial difficulties. Numerous phone calls to the corporate headquarters in South Bend went unanswered. 
But the bankruptcy of General Micro means more to the University than the loss of an on-campus store, Mason said. He said the campus branch resulted from an agreement known as the Apple Consortium. Un­der this agreement, Notre Dame faculty and students could buy Apple computer equipment at a dis­count as long as the University provided a systems support center. 
Notre Dame contracted General Micro for this service. 
Mason, however, said he believed General Micro's problems should not hurt the University. 
"The problem now is where do we get someone to take up the service agreement," Mason said. 
The University can either find a different firm to replace the troubled company or, if General Micro can restore its financial stability, have the company return, he said. In any case, Mason said he hoped to have the store reopened by next semester. 
"We are meeting with Apple to decide what to do about student services in the interim," Mason said. The meeting took place yesterday, but no word was available as to its outcome. Mason said he thought there would be no loss to students but perhaps an inconvenience until the store reopens. 
The Computing Center is con­tinuing to provide technical support as usual, and is standing by to see what role it may play in resolving the current Consortium situation, ac­cording to Kelly Havens, Asst. Direc­tor for User Services at the Computing Center. 
Students still can purchase com­puter disks at the Notre Dame Bookstore. 


Renovations continue on research facilities 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
StaffReporter 
One of the more exciting events taking place at Saint Mary's is the construction ofa S6 million addition to the science building, according to Richard Pilger, chairman of the chemistry and physics building committee. 
The enlarged facility will contain more chemistry and physics laboratories, an electronics laboratory. increased computer facilities, an animal-behavior room and extensive research facilities for faculty and students, Pilger said. 
"The need for space has been here a long, long while," he said. The enlarged facility is slated to open August I, I 986, Pilger said. 
The first biology and chemistry facilities at the College, used bet­ween 1904 and 1955, were located in Holy Cross Hall, Pilger said. Since then, enrollment at Saint Mary's has more than doubled, necessitating a move to the present science facility, he said. 
"The old facilities weren't poor, they just weren't big enough," said Pilger. 
Several changes had been made in the past which demonstrated too that more space was needed, he said. 
An apartment became a physics laboratory, a janitor's closet was changed into a faculty office and another closet became a faculty work and computer room, Pilger ~aid. 
An organic materials laboratory will be a featured addition, accord­ing to Pilger. In the past, hazardous materials were used orstored by stu­dents or faculty without their knowledge, he said. This expanded facility will consist of 20 work sta­tions surrounding a glassed-in in­strument room which will reduce 
See FACILITIES, page 4 

WASHINGTON -Congressional negotiators ratified landmark legisla­tion designed to force a balanced budget by 1991, and the Senate cleared a S490 billion omnibus spending bill, as a rambunctious Congress struggled yesterday to break a legislative log jam and go home for the holidays. 
A third key measure -President Reagan's cherished proposal for tax overhaul-hung in the balance in the House, with a showdown set for later in the week. 
Reagan swiftly hailed the blueprint for a balanced budget, ap­pended .to a measure that would raise the national debt limit above $2 trillion. "I strongly support this measure and urge Congress to act quickly and make this the law of the land," he said in astatement issued at the White House. 
The legislation, the product of weeks of negotiations between House and Senate leaders, was ex­pected to win final congressional ap­proval swiftly, since the increase in the debt limit is needed by tomor­row to permit continued govern­ment borrowing. 
Senate leaders made good on their bid to complete work on the om­nibus spending bill by early evening after conservatives failed in a bid to include S50 million in aid for rebels fighting the Marxist government of Angola. 
The measure is needed to replace an interim stopgap spending bill by midnight tomorrow and negotia­tions were set for the morning to reconcile the Senate bill with a House-passed measure. 
Lawmakers rushed through the last few amendments to permit them to attend a formal Christmas party at the White House. 
As for the Democratic-drafted tax bill -reluctantly endorsed by Reagan as a "first step" towardgenuine over­haul -Democrats and even some Republican critics said the measure would likely survive a showdown vote in the House later in the week. 
With Congress nursing faint hopes of wrapping up its 1985 busi­ness by the end of the week, the day began with a White House meeting in which Reagan urged legislative leaders to complete work on the five-year deficit-reduction plan and the spending bill and advance the tax measure to the Senate. 
"He told us to finish our work," Dole said. "Everybody was friendly. Somebody wished him a Merry Christmas. And he sort of hinted he'd be glad when we were gone." 
Despite the evident good cheer around the polished mahogany table in the White House Cabinet Room, Sen. Mark Hatfield, R-Ore., said "nothing" was agreed upon. And House Republican leaders con­tinued to rebel against Reagan's call to vote for the Democratic tax over­haul bill later this week as a "first step" that can be substantially revised next year in the GOP­controlled Senate. 
"While this proposal is welcome, I am concerned that in the extreme it could have adverse effects on main­taining adequate levels of defense spending," Reagan said in his state­ment. "We have no higher priority than maintaining a strong national defense. To that end, I am com­mitted to and will propose budgets that meet this requirement. I look forward to working with Congress to implement our previous agree­ments on defense spending levels." 
The blueprint for a balanced budget is attached to the bill that would raise the debt limit. 
Physicians receive Peace Prize amid human rights protests 
OSLO, Norway -Two physicians · one American, the other Soviet ­who helped found a doctors' an­tiwar group received this year's Nobel Peace Prize yt>~tt"rdav as human rights demonstrators protested in the icy streets outside. 
American cardiologist Bernard Lown and Yevgeny Chazov, a Soviet deputy health minister and a fellow heart specialist, accepted the award as co-founders of Inter­national Physicians for the Preven­tion of Nuclear War. 
Dr. James Muller, a 1965 Notre Dame graduate and one of the co­founders ofthe IPPNW, also was to attend the ceremony, he said in an interview Dec. 4 before alecture at the University. 
The group claims more than 
135,000 members in 41 countries. 
The demonstrators were protesting against Chazov's presence because he participated in a 1973 political attack on Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov, who in 1975 won the Nobel Peace Prize himself. 
Chazov became the second Soviet citizen, after Sakharov, to receive the award. 
"We are not indifferc:nt to other human rights and hard-won civil liberties," Lown told an audience of more than 600 dignitaries, in­cluding Norwegian King Olav V, inside Oslo University Hall. 
"But first we must be able to be­queath to our children the most fundamental of all rights, which preconditions all others, the right to survive," the Harvard University professor said. 
Lown and Chazov were called together to the gilded rostrum to receive the gold medal and diploma, which carries a S225,000 award which will go to their or­ganization. 
"Our aspirations are pure," said Chazov, the target of many protests, after noting that the five years of the antiwar group's exis­tence "were not all roses." 
Reading his speech in English, Chazov did not touch on the issue ofhuman rights. 
Outside the hall, one of the protest banners said: "Chazov, use your power -free Sakharov." "Find better friends, Dr. Lown," read another demonstrator's sign. 
The Oslo ceremony was the first event in Scandinavia's annual Dec. 10 round of Nobel Prize presenta­tions. 
In a gala white-tie ceremony in Stockholm in neighboring Sweden later yesterday five Americans, a West German and a Frenchman received Nobel Prizes in medicine, chemistry. economics, physics and literature. 
Nobel winners are usually chosen in October and the awards are presented on Dec. 10. 


The Observer Wednesday, December 11, 1985 -page 2 
In Brief Feeling of Christmas remains 
Hall Presidents' Council presented Fisher Hall 
even though I'm a grown-up 
with the Sowder Award for the month of Nov./Dec. at last night's 
meeting according to Kevin Howard, HPC chairman. The honor is given for hall spirit and best social, liturgical and athletic activities for the month, he said. Howard also said Bruce Lohman, who was not present at the meeting, sent a note Saturday informing the HPC that 
.an "incredible response" had been received from students regarding the parietals survey, he said. As ofyet, however, no assistant rectors or rectors have responded although all have received surveys, Howard said. In other business, Vince Willis discussed the "Battle of the Bands," a Feb. 14 event planned to kick off of the MS campaign, he said. Students will be able to vote on which of three or four stu· dent bands they feel is best, according to Howard. · The Observer 
Renovation of dorm chapels will be: coor­
dinated by a new committee, consisting ofstudents, faculty and staff at Saint Mary's. The committee, chaired by Director ofCampus Mini· stry Mary Feeley, had an organizational meeting last week to discuss the renovations. After ideas have: been developed, the committee will consult architects, artists and liturgists on input. Construction will begin with the Regina chapel, which is owned by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Renovations of other chapels in Holy Cross and LeMans halls will begin with the completion of Regina. -The Obser­
ver 

A conservative student newspaper, the 
Washington Spectator, at the University of Washington, is under at· tack from the Right. The Spectator's editors have: announced that they plan to join the efforts of Accuracy in Academia in "exposing" professors with "leftist bias." A student government member, who is also a member of the College Republicans, said the newspaper's "morally rancid McCarthyesque witch-hunt" threatens academic freedom and has proposed that the student government deny the paper office space in the student union building. ·The Observer 
China's traditional sexual morals are too 
strict and suppress human nature, according to three-quarters of university students questioned in a weekly journal survey Monday. The official English-language Peking Review said that only 25 per· cent ofstudents surveyed felt it was immoral for engaged couples to live together. Twenty percent said it was understandable for some married people to have lovers, although 50 percent agreed that adul­tery was immoral, the report said. Sixty-two percent felt a woman's virginity was sacred and should be retained until marriage. The sur­vey was taken to find out ifstudents were being influenced by Wes­tern "sexual liberation," the weekly said. Details of the number of students surveyed and the margin oferror were not provided. ·AP 
National Zoo officials are heartened by a new sign ofimpending motherhood from giant panda Ling-Ling · she's begin· ning to build a nest· "but she's also running out oftime," zoo spokes­woman Margie Gibson said Monday. Zoo officials figure that the 15-yc:ar-old panda will give birth by Dec. 17 or not at all this year, because that is the end of the gestatiort period which started when she mated with Hsing-Hsing injuly. "She brings the bamboo we give her for food into her den," spokeswoman Kay Taub said of.Ling-Ling. "She's not showing much appetite, but she puts it in place like a bed." The female panda conceived twice before, but each time the cub died. -AP 
Of Interest 
Charles Dickens as portrayed by Dr. Bert Hornbach, will read from "A Christmas Carol" and other selected readings in the Library auditorium tonight at 8. The event is sponsored by the Student Activities Board. Admission is free. ·The Observer 
Right to Life of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's will meet tonight at 9 in the multi-purpose room of the Center for Social Con­cerns to discuss plans for the spring semester. Following the meeting, the PBS documentary "Abortion Clinic" will be viewed.. 
The Observer 

Weather 
Let itsnow.Precipitation today with a r; 60 percent chance of light rain or snow. High 
I-.· 
I

around 35. An 80 percent chance of rain or 
•. 

snow tonight. Low around 30. A 40 percent chance oflight snow tomorrow. High in the low 
30s. -AP 

Design Etlitor....•.••................ Andi Schnuck Vif!Wpoint Layout............ Mdlssa Warnke Design lt.ulsrant •..•.•.•.•. Mark McLaughlin Features Copy Etlltor...... Grnk Wlmmrr Typest!lln-s ...................................... Pat Clark Features Layout......................... Carry Grls 
Jrnnlfrr Lynn Blgou ND Day Etlltor........................ Dian<: OuiJirt News Etlitor..•........••..•..... Mark Pankowski !iMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karl<: Copy Editor....................... Ann IU!trnbach AtlDesign ......................Jeanne Grammens Sports Copy Editor................ Mike Chmld Jim Kramrr Sports Special Layout............ Marty Burru Pbotograpber............................ P<:t<: '"'ches Vlf!Wpolnt Copy Editor .••.... Allee Gronrr Mary Sharon White: 
lbc: Obe<:rvc:r ( 1'S~ ~99 l·~O(lO) is pubhshc:d Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation pc:riod5. lbc: Oba<:rver as publishrd by thr studentsofthr I lnivrrsity of Notre: l>amc: and Saint Mary's Colkgr Subscriptions may lx purchasrd for HO pc:r year ( Jl() pc:r Km<:stc:r) by wrltinglbc: Obe<:rvc:r, P.O. Box Q. Notre: Dame:. Indiana 
46~~6. lbc: O~r os a mc:mlxr of lbc: "->clalc:d Prrss. All rl:"production rights are revoved. 
When I was a little kid, my whole family would go to midnight Mass on Christmas eve. When we returned, we always discovered that Santa Claus had come while we were out. 
I remember one time when we got back from Mass and there were thousands and thousands of boxes (it seemed) In the living room. There were three or four that were bigger than I was; at the time {I was six, I discovered by having Mom check her records), and they were all for me. We're talking major-league excit· ment, here. I stayed up almost forever · at least until 2 a.m. 
Islept offmy hangover, ifyou want to call it that, most ofChristmas day. That night, my parents allowed me to stay up way past my bedtime: to play with my toys, the most notable of which was a parking garage by Fisher· Price for the little characters that I referred to throug· bout my childhood as "peoples." 
Even at that tender age, I sensed that was participating in some sort of romantic scene: sitting on the carpet in my pajamas in front of the fire playing with Dad while Mom sat in her chair (was It a rocking chair? I don't remember) smiling at us. Christmas in those days conjured up more '6-'l~ll":a!!!:l:l.! thoughts ofSanta Claus than ofChrist, but I knew It was a special time. 
I was nine years old (Mom's records show) when, for the first time, I didn't get any toys for Christmas. I, like my older brother and sisters, got clothes and books from "Santa Claus," who came whenever Mom felt like wrapping presents, not in any mysterious way while the whole family was out. I knevv I had made a large step in the direction ofbecoming a grown-up. 

Nine years later, as a college freshman, I hardly could claim that I was not then even more ofagrown-up than I was at age nine. But going home for Christmas brought to mind thoughltS of good food and a comfortable bed much more than any thoughts about Christ. 
Not that I don't know what Christmas is all about. But it's just so hard to keep its real meaning in mind. 
One time when I did find myself reflecting on the origin of Christmas was during the Christmas Mass in my hall. It was my first Notre Dame Christmas. I had only one semester under my belt, and I took time out to think about Christmas without associating it with my coming trip home. 
-Christmas, J ·realized, was right there in the hall chapel, crammed with people. It must have been about 10 days before the actual day, but it felt very special. I 
1\ 
Merry Christmas 
I \
to the crack Observer JProduction Staff\ 
** 0 ** 
Another inexpensive Observer personal ad 
~--------------------~ 


Phil 
Wolf 
Copy Chief 
felt very close to all of those people · some whom I 
knew well, others whom Ididn't know very well. We all 
shared the desire to come together to celebrate 
Christmas in the best way possible: around the altar. 
It's hard to describe the feeling that I had as I sat there on the tloor of the chapel. I was as happy as I had been years before on the floor by the fireplace at home. If you've ever felt that way, then you know what I mean. It's sort of like the warm feeling inside from drinking hot chocolate. 
Later that evening, I sat 
alone in my room, worrying 
about my finals and feeling a 
little bit guilty. I wanted 
somehow to live "the tru.c: 
meaning of Christmas" as I 
had·fc:h it during Mass, but I 
didn't know how. Without 
preaching to my friends, I 
wanted to be able to show 
people that I really under· 
stood what it is all about. I 
had not reduced Christmas 
to a commercial, secular 
event, as some people claim 
we: all do. 

Still, I watched the Grinch 
steal Christmas at least three 
times this year. And every 
ll-fl time it came, despite his c:f. 
forts. I cheered for Unus when he saved Charlie Brown's tree for yet another year. I know I was not alone on this campus watching the classics of the season. They have come to mean Christmas for almost all ofus over the years. 
When I go home for the holiday next week, I know I will be looking forward to that warm bed at home more than anything else. But I also know that as the awaited day grows closer, I will be thinking about the good old days; I will be thinking about that little kid by the fireplace. I also probably will have a few moments feeling like I did in my hall chapel freshman year. There will be lovingparents( oh, how I realize that as the years go by), old friends, television classics and good food. 
There will be no toys under the tree with my name on them. But I guess I'm grown up enough now that I will be satisfied with that warm feeling inside. That is what Christmas really is to me. 
Tis the season to be Suntan! 
Heads will turn at Holiday parties 
when you wear the latest fashion 
accessory -a gorgeous Fiesta suntan! 
Our UVA SUNBED SYSTEM l.vill tan you 
into 1986 for the price of $19.85. 
V•lad ohru 12131/ijfi 
TANNING SESSIONS 

FIRST SESSION FREE • $5 VALUE 
9 
_,.._._
,.,_

Daily 1:!-M; Sat. H-6 
·sun. 10-5 
,JOJ!.If_,.& 
..._7a•o
.,...._..... 

_ ~DUCATIONAL CENTER In Nrw 'lbf'l. SU1t S.WMry H IUOI•n EOue~IIOnal f~ltl 110 TEST PAE-ATl()N SP£CIAUSTS SINCE 1938 CALL DAYS. EVENINGS & WEEKENDS 

1717 E. South Bene! A .. e. South Bend. indiana 46637 SUNTAN CENTERS 
272·4135 
Jj22~,.,.,
,,......,.a,,'-d.A ... 
,.,......., 
#11011.-a.L ...; 
a....Jo-5 


8UJIU'• Outld Mall 
5HI ar.,.RfL 
:l72·.f0ld 
--------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------·------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, December 11, 1985-page 3 
Doctors call for ban on all tobacco advertising 
AMoclated Press 
WASHINGTON -Setting a goal ofa tobacco-free United States by the year 2000, the 271,000-member American Medical Association called yesterday for laws to ban all advertising and promotion of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco. 
After passing the anti-advertising resolution, the association's policymaking House of Delegates also voted to press for a 21-year min­imum age for buying tobacco products; for a ban on vending machine cigarette sales; and for re­quired health warning labels on smokeless tobacco such as chewing tobacco and snuff. 
Association officials ack­nowledged it would be difficult to get such proposals through Congress, especially in light of ob­jections already raised concerning possible violation of free-speech rights. 
But doctors contended in debate that tobacco and lung cancer are clearly linked, that tobacco advertis­ing encourages Americans to use tobacco products and that the medi­cal profession has a duty to try to do something about it. 
"We expect a challenge; we're willing to fight it," said AMA general counsel Kirk Johnson at a post-vote news conference. 
Dr. Ronald Davis of Atlanta, a member ofthe association's board of trustees, said introduction oflegisla­tion -perhaps by next spring -would have to be followed by efforts to build support "in the years to come." 
Asked for comment one day ear­lier, Anne Browder, of the Tobacco Institute, which represents the in-
ONT ACT LENSES 
dustry, said that a ban on print ad­vertising would violate the · industry's right of free speech and that such bans in other nations haven't worked anyway. 
Only one doctor, D.E. Ward of Lumberton in tobacco-rich North Carolina, spoke in opposition to the proposal. 
He said his state's delegation con­sidered the action "inappropriate for the House of Delegates which in the past has championed constitu­tional freedoms." And he argued that manufacturers shoul~ be allowed to advertise legally produced tobacco products. 
"We believe strongly in the First Amendment" to the Constitution, lawyer Johnson said later. However, he added, "there is nothing to the as­sertion" that advertising must be 
allowed  for  legally  produced  
products.  
As  for  production legality,  Dr.  

Robert McAfee, the South Portland, Maine, physician who presented the anti-advertising proposal, said that was "a very good question" that might be addressed "in the very near future." 
Other doctors, however, said they did not foresee the association recommending an outright ban on smoking. 
Attempts to persuade publishers to voluntarily stop advertising have had only modest success, the proposal said, estimating that U.S. cigarette advertisers spend S2 bil­lion a year on ads. 
$39.98 

CONTACT -LENS 
SALE 
AIL Y WEAR SOFT 
$39.98 
Tint contact lenses that not only your vision, they make your eyes 
$79.98 
and exciting. Available in blue, uur<QUOise, emerald green and brown. 
'Price does not include an eye examination which is required at the time of purchase. 
Visa-MasterCard-Medicaid-11'\surance Programs Welcome Open 6 Days A Week With Evening Hours 
SOUTH BEND: 1111 E IRELAND RD... 291400 MISHAWAKA: 506 W McKINLEY 
Also Offices in Indianapolis, Shelbyville, Kokomo, Lafayette, Anderson, T<>rre H'lute Rict,mond, Bloomi New Castle, Franklin, Muncie, Marion 

HILLS, Iowa -Minutes before a farmer killed his banker, he was told his account was overdrawn and that he would need to see a bank officer before he could cash a check, aut­horities said yesterday. 
Dale Burr, who went on a shoot­ing rampage Monday, killing his wife, another farmer and the banker before taking his own life, had been despondent in the past few weeks about his tremendous debt and lacked the money to buy groceries, said his brother-in-law, Keith Forbes. 
Burr, 63, did not often talk about problems but poured out his story to relatives on Nov. 30, said the brother-in-law, Keith Forbes. 
"He had mortgaged the farm pretty heavily, apparently to keep the farming operation going," said Forbes, also a farmer in the Lone Tree area. 
Burr, who farmed approximately 560 acres with his son, John, owed hundreds ofthousands ofdollars and was afraid Hills Bank and Trust Co. would foreclose on his mortgage, selling his machinery and livestock, Forbes said. 
"That was what was bothering him. He told me he didn't have enough money to buy groceries," Forbes said. 
Charles Gay, chairman of Hills Bank and Trust Co., denied the bank planned to foreclose on Burr, a lifelong farmer. 
Records in the Johnson County recorder's office show that the Burrs owed the Hills bank almost $426,000. 
On Monday morning, Burr killed his 64-year-old wife, Emily, with a single shotgun blast to the chest and lefr a note expressing "financial distress," said Johnson County Sherilf Gary Hughes. ' Burr then drove to the Hills bank, 
---""~· 
The St. Francis Shoppe is the place to shop for Christmas! 

Discover a unique shop with handcrafted merchandise 
we are proud to present. 
Including: 
• Baskets ·Clowns/Dolls 
• Navajo Rugs 
• 
Ebony &Teak Carvings 

• 
Nativity Sets 


• Sterling Jewelry •Ornaments •Glassware ·Brass ·Pottery 

~Saint francis~ 
U.S. 31 NORTH (behind Fatima Retreat Center) Hours: 1 Oam-Spm, Monday-Saturday /Phone 233-7 467 
where he tried to cash a check but was told his account was overdrawn. He walked out but came back five to 10 minutes later with a 12-gauge shotgun concealed under his heavy overalls, Hughes said. 
Burr entered the office of bank president John Hughes and fired a single blast at his head, said Sherilf Hughes, brother ofthe slain bank of­ficial. 
Minutes later, Burr gunned down farmer Richard Goody, 38, on Goody's farm in rural Hills, Hughes said. 
After he was stopped in his piclrup truck by a deputy sheriff, Burr shot himselfin the chest. 
"Ifyou only knew him, you would have never believed it. He was very easy going," Forbes said 
Friends and neighbors said the Burrs were never very outgoing and in recent years spent more and more of their time by themselves on the farm. 
'Suicide' by blows to head investigated 
LOWELL, Ind. -State police have 
begun investigating the case of a 
Hobart man whose death from 32 
hammer blows to the head has 
stirred a controversy among local 
law enforcement officials, aut­
horities said yesterday. 

James Cooley, 52, was found dead 
in his basement darkroom after 
receiving 32 hammer blows to the 
head in April. Hobart police and 
Lake County Coroner Daniel 
Thomas have been at odds ever 
since about the cause ofdeath. 

Hobart Police Chief Lawrence Juzwicki has said Cooley committed suicide, and Hobart police have closed their investigation. Thomas has insisted the death was a homicide. 
State Police Det. Arland Boyd has been assigned to the case, and Thomas said he has turned over all documents and photos to the state police. Thomas, who asked the state police to enter the case, has also asked Lake County Prosecutor Jack Crawford to investigate the case. 
"I don't expect to hear anything from the state police before the beginning of the year," Thomas said yesterday. 
Juzwicki has cited the opinion of a blood splatter expert who reviewed the photos of the darkroom and said Cooley must have committed suicide because there was no interruption of the splatters where a killer could have been standing. 
He said the case remain~d clas­
sified as a suicide, and is 
"suspended," meaning Hobart 
police are doing no further inves­
tigation. 

~------------~----------------------------------------------------~­
The Observer 
MANILA, Philippines -Thousands of students and workers shouting "Revolution" marched to the Presi­dent Ferdinand Marcos' palace where he was meeting party leaders yesterday to discuss potential run­ning mates for the February special c:lc:ction. 
The 4,000 marchers waved red flags and chanted slogans praising the insurgent communist New Peoplc:'s Army as pan of thc:ir protest against alleged human rights abuses and U.S. support of Marcos' government. 
Nearly 30,000 people, mostly farmers and students, held similar 
Facilities 
continuedfrom page 1 
the potential danger to those 
working there, he added. 
The faculty will receive more 
office space and will move their 
offices into the enlarged facility 
upon its completion, Pilger said. 
Tom Fogle, assistant professor of 
biology, said he is looking forward to 
the new animal behavior and 
genetics laboratory, in addition to a 
new office. 
"We'll have increased teaching 
space, research space for students 
and faculty, an animal room in the 
basement, and an enlarged green­
house for faculty and student 
genetics research," Fogle said. 
At the completion of the addition 
to the science building, work will 
begin on renovations of the present 
facility, Pilger said. This will include 
adding air conditioning, a new 
heating system, and new windows, 
he said. 
!Happy : :Birthday : 
•
•
•
•
•
• 

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

•Jlm£John
• 
Wednesday, December 11, 1985-page 4 


1027 E. Wayne Tues • Sun, noon • 6 I block south of Jefferson & Eddy 

u..cl A -•of prblt boob !'-•Itt.•old, •••relied 

With Affordable Business Fashions 
EVERYDAY 
~ PRICES: 
Suits from $39.99 Blazers from $19.99 
lo

Shirts & Slacks from $10.99 
20•1.offany regular priced merchandise 
South Bend: Buyers Market Place 5901 N Grape Road 
L~~~~~~::~~~-----------------J 
protests in the central Philippine 
cities of Legaspi, Bacolod and Iloilo. 
No violence was reported in any of the rallies. The Philippine News Agency said three demonstrators in Iloilo were arrested for distributing allegedly subversive leaflets but were later released. 
In Manila, security guards placed barbed wire across a bridge less than 500 yards from Marcos' palace, preventing marchers from reaching it. 
The marchers held a rally at the foot of the bridge and burned ef­figies of Marcos and . President Reagan. 
The rallies were organized by Bayan, a militant nationwide group of workers, students and peasants which has organized many previous demonstrations. In the Tagalog lan­guage, Bayan means country. 
The official Philippin~e News Agency said Prime Minister Cesar Virata and Assemblyman Arturo Tolentino were the "front-runners" among Marcos' possible choices for running mate in the Feb. 7 special election for the presidency and vice presidency. 
A presidential news release said Marcos would name his running mate today, immediately after a con­vention of his governing New ~iety Movement pany formally proclaims Marcos its official can­didate. 

•••••••J~EW YORK BUS•••••••• 
Thursday, December 12 $85 to Port Authority 2nd Floor LaFortune $90 to White Plains 
QUESTIONS: Call Bobby (1 024) BRING YOUR CHECKBOOK 

Santa Claus is corning to town 
(Do him a favor aad give ht.a taal) 

Y#lM·&J~ 
J.M.S. PLAZA  
latro Pkg. Spec.  4609 Grape Road  
$21.95  Mishawal(a  
(Gift CCJ1Jflc:ate AvaU.ble)  2 7 7 ·7026  

~~--:~~~~--~-~
................... 
Ann Juninr 
Who did not receive Info at home during break regarding 
Juninr Jartnts llttktnb 
Sign Up In the In Student Activities Office, LaFortune 
THIS WEEK
................... 

~-----~-------~-~-· -·­
The Observer Wednesday, December 11, 1985-page 5 

Bob Black ofPittsburgh prepares to lead a group ofmotorcycltsts on parade Saturday following the collection ofdonated toys for the Salvtttton Army. Approximately 55 riders turned out collecting over 200 toys for the Army's Christmas distribution program. The Informal group held a stmtlar ride last month, collecting food for Thanksgiving dis­tribution by the Salvation Army. 
Afghans fight to make war Russian 'Vietnam' 
BARI, Afghanistan -Sitting in a cramped bunker as Soviet and Af­ghan aircraft droned nearby, the guerrilla chieftain mused that Af­ghanistan would never be free until it became another Vietnam. 
"We must make it bad for the Rus­sians, like it was for the Americans in Vietnam," Jalaluddin Haqqani said as he studied a large map spread out on the earthen floor. 
About a mile away were the outer defenses of the encircled town of Khost, defended by some 4,000 Af­ghan government and Soviet troops. The beat of helicopter blades could be heard in the surrounding hills along with the roar of transport planes landing at Khost's air strip. 
Unprompted, the guerrilla com-. mander had turned to the Vietnam war to explain what Islamic guerril­las face ifthey are to drive out Soviet troops and topple Afghanistan's Communist government. 
"We have seen how the Viet­namese kept on fighting and how the Americans' power did not help them because the Vietnamese did not stop fighting," he said. 
Afghanistan faces years of death 
It's not too long until you'll be walking up to get your degree. But there's something you could get nght now that will help you in any walk of life. The Amencan ExpresS"' Card. 
Because if you're a senior and you've accepted a $10,000 career-oriented job, you could get the American Express Card. _ 
That's it. No strings. No gimmicks. (And even if you don't have a job right now, don't worry. This offer 1s st1ll good for 12 months after you graduate.) Th1s 1s a special offer from American Express be­cause, as graduating seniors, we thmk you're kind of spertal. In fact, we believe in your future. And this is the best way we know to prove it. 
Of course, the American Express Card will prove to be a great help to you in your career-for travel and for entertaining. And, to entertain your­self, you can use it to buy some new clothes for work or some new thmgs for home. In addition, the Card is also a great way to help you begin to estab­lish your credit history. 
So calll-800-THE-CARD and ask to have a Spe­
cial Student Application sent to  -·  -_  
you. Or look for one on campus.  ~J!IXl!lJ ~.__­ 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it.5M  ~~. ; m2 ~)9~DIIb ~~ LEE.-.!,!!_~~'~'""''""-• -· 1  

and suffering and much of the country will be shattered, Haqqani said calmly. That was the price of freedom, he added. 
"We face a longfight. It will not be easy and it will take a long time," he said. 
Outside, dozens of mujahedeen, or holy warriors, were cleaningtheir weapons, preparing food or resting in the afternoon sun. Intermittent gunfire could be heard in the dis­tance along with the blast ofartillery as returning patrols ambled up the hill to the steep gully sheltering the guerrilla positions. 
A wiry man with a graying beard reaching halfway down his chest, the 47-year-old Haqqani is one ofthe guerrillas' best-known field com­manders, with a reputation for leadership and courage. An old blue and brown woolen ski hat was perched on the former religious teacher's head, a bulletproof vest nestled. under his robes and his rifle was always within easy reach. 
Guerrilla forces have surrounded Khost for five years, bottling up the garrison and forcing the govern­ment to keep it supplied by air. The guerrillas frequently attack Khost and its defenses from the surround­ing hilltops, hitting the town with rockets, shells and machine-gun fire. 
Thousands of reinforcements, in· cluding elite Soviet airborne assault troops, were flown into Khost in August as part of a major offensive. The Soviet and Afghan government forces drove the guerrillas back for a while in heavy fighting before the of­
fensive  petered  out  in  mid­ 
September  as  guerrilla  resistance  
hardened.  
The  bunkers  at  Bari  had been  

overrun and destroyed. The shelters had since been rebuilt with charred wood left from the wrecked camp, and the bloody, rotting uniforms of Afghan soldiers killed in the fighting still lay on the 
In New 't\>111 Stale Stanley H Kaplan EOUC:iltOnal Center uo 
TEST PAEPIIUIATIOH SPECIALISTS SINCE !938 
CALL DAYS, EVENINGS • WEEKENDS 
1717 E Sout'1 Bend Ave. South Bend. Indiana 46637 
272-4135 


ACCURACY 
If you've got it, we want you! 
The Observer needs copy editors for next semester. 
Interested? Stop by the Observer office, third floor, LaFortune, for on application. 
Questions? 

.-----------------------------~----.------~---------~ -­Wednesday, December 11, 1985-page 6
The Observer 

Student Government wishes all ofyou a very Andgood luck on Merry Christmas/ final exams/ 
Need t() eet the Car Owners: 
c: • • • ::!
W()rd ()Ut1 
• Please park your cars in the D-2 • r:bm~\7m au urn m0g lot over Christmas break. (This is the most secure ·lot.) We thank 
N.D. Security for joining us in this The Notre Dame Advertising Network effort to protect your cars in the 
r 
I best way possible over break! 
I IP 'UlrlrIIIN'I
r 
ON THE RITZ 
r•

r 
r 
r Professional quality 
r that is suprisingly inexpensive. 
~3~~1~~~ 
dfdu0lti4in.g --nt 'Wo~f 
We The PeopLe 
All Interested students who want to help out with next semester's 
student government newsletter "We the People" please call 
Dua_ne Lawrence at 239-7668 or -stop by 2nd floor LaFortune! 
Wed. Dec. 11th 9pm·? atA.C.C. Mon~gram Room 
FOOD'*BEVERAGES ~ENTERTAINMENT ~GOOD CHEER 
Fabulous Christmas gifts Raffled at 11:OOpm 
Tickets available at doo.­
(D-2 Lot is across from Grace Hall.) 
.,• 
~iM FYOU DON'T nk 
LIKE THE NUCLEAR ARMS RACE TAKEAHIKE. 
To be precise, a 3,235-mile hike. 
You won't be alone. On March 1, 1986, five thousand people will leave homes, schools, jobs. and families to walk from Los Angeles to Washington, D.C. The Great Peace March will be the beginning of the end for nuclear weapons. 
Times that try one's soles. You'll cross the vast Mojave Desert to Las Vegas, Utah and Colorado. You'll crest the 12,000-ft. Loveland Pass. Then across Nebraska plains and Iowa cornfields to Chicago. Through our industrial heartland, across New Jersey to Manhattan. Then Philadelphia. And finally, Washington-where hundreds of thousands will join you. 
The numbers are impressive. Each marcher will take 10,098,000 steps. Through 15 states and 37 cities. There'll be six mobile cafeterias to serve 3,825,000 meals.. Daily showers and laundry for 5,000. Plus 75 vehicles to carry it all. 
Now preparing for takeoff. It's already being organized by PRO-Peace. ahigllly-skilled citizens movement dedicated to abolishing nuclear weapons. Its large staff of professionals in media, business. organizing and finance are making it happen now. 
Can you go the distance? If you're over eighteen or accompanied by aparent, in good physical condition and ready to give up nearly ayear of your life, join the Great Peace March. You'll be making astatement three thousand miles !ong. 
THE GREAT PEACE MARCH. 
0 Yeti I want to march. Send me an applicatoon. 0 Yal Enclcsed is my contribution of: 0 $500; 0 $100; 0 $50; 0 $25; 0$ ---­!~~';Ji' 0 Yeti I want to help.
I 
I 

1 Please make checks payable lo PRO-Peace i Mail to PRO-Peace. 8150 Beverly Blvd . Suite 301, Los Angeles. CA 90048. (213) 653-6245 I Your contributions are tax deductible 
!I Name __ -·---~ .___ ___________ _
I

Address ________ , __________City_ -~~----.Slate _____lip 
1 Daytomephone( ) ________Qiherphone( ) _____ 
I

1 Signature ____ -·---________ .. _____Date
L--------------------------------------------------------------------------11 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Accent 
Wednesday, December 11, 1985 -page 7 
1\ batt unlltr tltt llnmt.•• in 1885 

MARGARET McCABE 
features staff writer 

L
ast summer, thousands sat in 
movie theatres watching Mic­
haelJ. Fox in the box office hit 
"Back to the Future," as he traveled 
back to 1955 in a pseudo-time­
machine-DeLorean designed by a 
mad scientist. 
The idea ofexperiencing a dif­
ferent era, in the past or the future, 
has always been intriguing ... 
think about the times you've said 
"I'd love to go back in time just for a 
day." Ofcourse it wouldn't be any fun if you couldn't come back to 
talk about what you see on your 
sojourn and compare your ex­
periences with the present. 
Right now, you may be at Notre Dame. Have you wondered who walked this campus long ago? You may be curious as to what the early Notre Dame community ex­perienced under the shadow ofthe Golden Dome. 
Now's your chance to find out. 
You are about to take a trip to a. different dimension ... this one's better than the average twilight zone experience. Imagine a trip back through a sizeable amount of time -a century perhaps. 
Climb into a time machine of 
your own design -make it as 
elaborate as you want to. But make 
sure your dials are set: 
Geographical Dimension 
-Northern Indiana 

Destination -the Golden Dome 
Time Dimension 
· the late 19th century 

Destination 
· December 11, 1885 

Now sit back and enjoy the ride ... don't worry, as Huey Lewis might say, you'll be "back in time" for your next class. 
As you crawl out ofyour machine you're immediately struck by the clean, fresh air and breathe deeply ­as you realize happily, there is no ethanol in 1885. 
As you stretch out and look due north you see the familiar tree-lined walk leading to the Golden Dome ­or is it familiar? The trees seem 
much slimmer, the campus in general seems spacious, open and airy. There are fields and you can actually see a horizon to the east and the west. There is no O'Shaughnessy. No Rock. No Alumni. No Walsh. You see no library looming over all in the nor­theast. In fact, there isn't much. It may be easier to note what is as opposed to what tsn't. 
ID~t Qtampus 
The University was established in 1842, but had to be rebuilt after a fire destroyed the main buildings in 1879. The only structures to be seen in 1885 are the Administration Building with its dome intact; the Science Hall, to be known later as LaFortune; the Music Hall, later to be called Washington Hall; a gym­nasium east ofthe Music Hall; St. Edward's Hall just east of the main building; an infirmary west ofSt. Ed's; a steam printing office and boiler house behind the main build­ing; and Sacred Heart which was 
not destroyed by the great fire and on which construction and expan­sion continue in 1885. 
Before you head north towards the Main Building, you glance be­hind to see two small buildings on either side of the main entrance. The one on the east side is the post office, and on the west side is the porter's lodge at which horse and 
buggies and carriages stop before coming or going-sort ofthe 1885 version ofSecurity. 
This is all so overwhelming that you're hungry and decide to head to the Huddle: for a burger. As you walk north, notice the people on the quad ... there are no women. Ofcourse you should expect this in 1885 but it still looks strange. At a second glance, you notice that a few of the people out and about look way too young to be col­legiates. What you may not realize is that in 1885, Notre Daine offers more than collegiate and graduate programs. The University, with an enrollment ofapproximately 481, offers an elementary program for boys 13 and younger known as the Minim Department. For those bet­ween the ages of 13 and 17, there is a collegiate preparatory school. Stop in awe as you try to com­prehend the possibility ofspending a life at Notre Dame. In 1885lingo, these lucky fellows are ap­propriately called "lifers." 
You finally reach LaFortune and 
enter only to realize that you are in 
Science Hall, a recently completed 
building, and you will find not a 
Huddle or a student center within. 
Instead, where you expect to see a 
lobby there appears to be a 
museum. And. so it is, the pride and 
joy ofFatherJohn Zahm, a key 
instigator ofthe pursuit ofscience 
at Notre Dame in the 1880s. 
The museum contains displays of 
geological, biological, and chemical 
collections. The building also con­
tains some classrooms and labs 
where various experiments and 
research are conducted. There 
Zahm's younger brother, Albert, 
will soon design the first successful 
helicopter and wind tunnel, and 
will launch the first man-carrying 
h < 
'i'~""-'' 

glider from the building's roof. be seen in 1985. 
As you leave the building you You decide to turn to the right to see Washington head to the east of Hall, or Music Hall at the time. A briefpeek inside shows the 
see 1885, page 8 

auditorium to be very much the same as it will be in 1985, except 
it's far more ornate with murals covering the walls and ceilings. The building, just three years old, also contains rooms used by upperclas­smen for reading. 
Stepping outside again, you scan the quad in front ofthe main build­ingwhere you notice some water 
f!t,

continued/rom page 7 area for the Minims 
Music Hall where you see an un­
familiar two-story, red-brick build­
ing standing where the band 
building will stand in 1985. Hey, 
they have a "Rock" in 1885 too! 
What you're looking at is the gym­
nasium . . . Rockefeller Hall. 
You're curiousity is sparked so 

you enter to find It equipped with 
swings, turning poles, horizontal 
bars and other gym equipment. Also 
in the building is the closest thing 
to the Huddle you'll find in 1885. 
It's a candy and softdrlnk shop run 
by Brother Leopold Kllul, a typeset­
ter, professor, violln teacher and 
mananger of the shop since 1864. 
Better known to the students of 
1885 as "Brother Leep," he keeps 
his shop stocked with pretzels, 
candy and cakes. A barbershop may 
also be fuund in the building. 
After trying out some ofthese 1885 munchies, walk out the door and head back behind Washington Hall. Glancing quickly to the east, you'll see baseball fields where some day there will be a north quad. Straight ahead is a treat for the eyes, a beautiful Victorian gar­den with an ornate fuuntain in the center around which mounds of 
flowers will bloom in the spring. 
Beyond the garden is St. Edward's 
Hall. 
Upon entering the Hall, you'll realize quickly that you're out of place. Everyone is under five feet tall. St. Ed's was built in 1882 to house the popular Minim Depart­ment, established by Father Sorin himself. 
The first floor contains the lavatories, toilets and storage rooms. As you wander the second floor amidst the Minims, you'll find the chapel, a parlor, study halls and classrooms. The third and fuurth floors contain the sleeping quarters for the llttle guys with a few more classrooms and a music room on the third floor as well. 
There is an extension to the east ofSt. Ed's that serves as a recreation hall for the Minims. Another exten­sion, to the west ofSt. Ed's, is the infirmary. 


As you glance up at the Dome, you'll see it's not as shiny as it will be in 1985, but striking and inspir­ing nonetheless. It's time to venture into the main building. WAIT! Don't walk up the main steps. According to long-standing tradition, the porch and stairs ofthe main build­ing are offlimits to undergraduates in 1885 until commencement day when they will walk down the steps fur the first time. You'd better enter on the first floor. 
lfyou expect the familiar offices of 1985, you'll be surprised to find lavatories and washrooms, trunk storage rooms, and dining halls in their place. Where the admissions office will be someday is the dining 
and prep stu­

dents. The collegiates 
eat in the 

west area, where the business office will be in a century. 
On the second floor are the presidential offices and living fi quarters for University officials, as well as study halls fur students. 
As you move throughout the building you may find a pattern in the division ofthe facilities. The Administration Building in 1885 is, in a sense, divided into two halls. The west halfis called Brownson Hall, and its facilities, (the dining area, study hall, and dorms on the· west side ofbuilding) are for col­lege students. The east halfis called Carroll Hall and it is for the prep students. 
Before venturing to the third floor, you decide to check out one of the study halls. Upon entering, you'll find a room tilled with dt:sks. Each desk belongs to a student and all ofhis books and school supplles are stored inside ofit. There's a raised platfurm in the room where a prefect moriltors communal study from 7 to 1 0 p.m. each night. At the beginning ofeach semester, the University President will stand on the platform to read to the study halls the University Regulations. 

On the third floor, you'll find St. Edward's dorm fur the prep stu­dents and St. Joseph's dorm fur the high school students. Venture over to peak inside one ofthe dorms and you'll see one large room with rows ofbeds on metal frames on which there are white curtains fur a little privacy anyway. Next to each bed is a chair for the student but his clothes must be stored in lockers in the basement. As you scan the room you may see two doors on one of the walls. These are the prefects rooms. They are two brothers who are in charge ofwaking everyone up at 6 a.m. and extinguishing the lights at 1 0 p.m. They also have to stop the students from short sheet­ing their friends' beds or pulling other practical jokes. 
There are a few classrooms on the third floor as well. All together, 22 classrooms are scattered throug­hout the building. When you poke your head inside to take a peak at one ofthem, you find you've inter­rupted a meeting ofthe St. Cecilia Philomathean Society. They're practicing for the Annual Christmas Exercises -a special celebration, complimentary to University Presi­dent Thomas E. Walsh, and it's planned for Dec. 19. The clas­srooms obviously double as as­sembly rooms for the groups on campus. After politely excusing yourself, you head fur the staircase 
and up to the fourth floor. 
There you find, at the front of the building, the Lemonnier Library. It's a large room with shelves of volumes lining its four walls. Several tall windows lend siLJfficient light and the decor includes murals on the walls, a ft~w scattered orien­tal carpets, scattered display cases containing memorabilia, and statues or busts that seem to be watching your every move. 
By 1889, the library's director, 
Professor Edwards, will have the 
ever-increasing, collection of 
volumes up to 50,000. He's. been 
aggressively rebuilding the collec­
tion ever since the great tire in April 
of 1879. 
Also on the fourth floor 3lfe two 
other student dorms, St. Pat:rick's 
dorm for the Brownsonites and St. 
Aloysius for the Carrollites. 
Run upstairs to the fifth fl.oor, it's kind ofexciting because the fifth floor will be closed offin 1985. But now, it contains the tine arts depart­ment with studios for mechanical drawing, photography, painting, sculpture, and architecture. Also on the floor is a studio for Luigii Gregori, the artist responsible fur the mural on the inside ofthe dome and for some ofthe murals you saw earlier in Music Hall. · 
As you descend the stairs, you realize you've been walking all day and it would feel great to sitt down for a while . . . so you head for the University Parlor on the second floor, a large room used fur visitors and special occasions. 
As you cautiously open the door, you're delighted to find the room 
~· 
• 

unoccupied. It is a large room with patterned rugs, pillars, chandeliers, tall stately windows, and scattered As you skim the pages some of


Victorian furniture. After sitting the more interesting parts seem toyourselfin a corner, you pick up a jump out at you -like the page thatbook on a table next to you ... 
lists expenses. s150 for a semester!
University ofNotre Dame That includes "board, bed and
Catalogue 1885-86. This should prove interesting! 
Wednesday, December 11, 1985-page 8-9 
l 

bedding, and tuition." After heaving a depressed sigh, you flip back­wards to a section entitled "Discipline." There you'll find that Notre Danie in 1885 is a dry campus as you note regulation number four: "The use ofintoxicat· ing liquors is absolutely prohibited under all circumstances." 
Some ofthe other dos and don'ts are also noteworthy. Although admission is granted to members of any religious denomination, Notre Dame is strictly a Catholic univer­sity and attendance at Mass on Sundays and Holy Days is man­datory. No one one can leave the campus without permission ofthe 
President or Vice-President or one of their representatives. Also, "to guard against clandestine and im­proper correspondence," the Presi­dent reserves the right to supervise letters to or from students. Use of tobacco is "strictly forbidden" unless you are a college student and have written permission from mom and dad. 
1\rabtmirs 
Flipping ahead a few pages, you"ll see the courses ofstudy for the college students ofNotre Dame 1885. The two major schools are the Classical, in which you would take mostly Greek, latin, English and Math with a few electives available in language or the arts; and Scientific, in which you would take a great deal ofChemistry, Math and 
Botany. There are special courses of study in law, Civil Engineering, a Commercial Course or Business, and Modern languages. 'Jf:e CanoffdfaffC fi . 
yc ut:S. Jlow of{tf:e. J.d. . . . ·.· sport at Notre Dame -but it will be £t 0 -fooking ueh.id:u . L { ·· · ~oriallift within two years. uz f T.OIZt o tf:e 2:)0~ As the 1885-86 Catalogue tells the door to see where they're · you, the only sports offered are heading. They're on their way to What about fun? By this time 
baseball and boating. There is a the senior dining area where there you're beginning to wonder what 
group listed under Athletics as the will be a table well endowed with these people do for fun around 
Hoynes Ught Guards. No, not a delicacies waiting for them. here. You flip foward to find the 
fencing team, but groups ofstu-Just then, the door across the hall activities for the Brownsonites. But 
dents who have organized militry opens and out walks a youngish -they're all religious or literary 
companies. The State ofIndiana looking man who also heads down societies. There's the supplied the University with the the hall to descend to the dining Archconfraternity of the Blessed necessary arms and equipment and area. That's the president ofNotre Virgin Mary, which "has for its the uniformed companies drill in Dame, Father Thomas E. Walsh. 
object the propagation ofthe Faith, 
the use of them. He's only 32 years old but he's been the practice ofdevotion to the Suddenly, you hear voices ap-president for the last four years. Blessed Virgin Mary, and the cul­
proaching the parlor. You quickly Sorin appointed his young protege tivation ofa religious spirit amoun 
duck behind the chair but·make in hopes that the young man would its members," Hmmm ... don't 
sure you have a good view ofthe be successful in expanding the suppose they'd have any happy door. In walks a man with a long faculty, improving the University's hours or anything. white beard, looking very regal. He academic departments and building
The St. Aloysius Philodemic looks familiar.lt's Father Sorin, more physical facilities. 
• Society is really out for a good time. 
whose statue you walked past a Their goal is "the cultivation of 
million times in 1985. You just eloquence and the aquisition ofan 
never considered the fact that the accurate knowledge ofHistory." 

founder ofNotre Dame is still alive Another rowdy crowd is the and well in 1885. He's president of Well, December 11, 1885 is a Thespian Association -it's in hot the Board ofTrustees and he's very Friday so you decide to hang pursuit ofcultivation ofOratory, influential in making decisions. To around and see what the social life Elocution, and the Dramatic An. the students he is a demi-god and is like on weekends. It'd be neat to 
The Columbian Uterary and referred to by all as the Very meet Saint Mary's women ofthe 
Dramatic Society might be the 1885 Reverend Father Sorin. 1880s. Chances are, however, that version of the Marketing or Manage­This evening he is entertaining you won't see any. There isn't much ment Clubs, as it is for the benefit of the Studebakers ofSouth Bend, as ofa relationship between the men 
the Commercial students and it ofNotre Dame and the women of hopes to cultivate Elocution and Saint Mary's Academy in 1885. Oratory. There's also the Sorin There is a road leading to the Uterary and Dramatic Association Academy and often guys will walk and ofcourse the University March­to the end ofit where they can ing Band. watch women walk by. They might 
Ifyou were to hang around for a call, wave, or whistle, but this type while you'd find that most special ofrelationship doesn't encourage events or performances on campus the development ofmuch 
I 
are by these groups. Shakespeare romance. Men who have relatives at plays were without a doubt a Saint Mary's may visit them on 
I 
favorite among the dramatic certain days. But it'll be a genera­I 
societies. tion or so before there's much more I social activity than this between the schools. the Future,"
~ports 1
It's been a full day in 1885 and "The past is but the beginning 7.lniueu1ty fP~ide.nt you're ready to head back to the ofa beginning, I
As you continue scanning the 
present. You head down to the first As you fasten the seat belt in your and all that is and haS been 
I
pages you notice a listing of the 'Jathe't Cfh.omlll CWaf:J; 
floor and out the front door un­time machine and set the dial on is but the twilight ofthe dawn."
Alumni Association officers. That's 
noticed. It's six o'clock and the December 11, 1985, you think
right -proud alumni in 1885. Who munity. In walk a gentleman and 
bells ofSacred Heart are ringing. about that curious person in 2085
else would throw the tailgaters for lady dressed in what are certainty 
From now on, in 1985, that sound who will crawl in to a time machine Portions ofthe infonnation in this
football weekends? Sorry, no foot­the most elegant clothes ofthe 
will be especially endearing to you. and come to experience your col­story weregatheredfrom the bookball weekends in 1885 simply be­period. 
It's a reminder ofthe tradition and lege life. Who knows what the "The University ofNotre Dame: A 
cause football is not yet an official As soon as they leave, you dart to 
history you've always heard about, Notre Dame Community will be Portrait ofIts History and 
but now it means more. It's the like in a century? Campus" l1y Notre Dame Professor
----:::-----­

tradition and history you've As H.G. wells so astutely put it in Thomas Schlereth, andfrom Notre his 190I book "The Discovery of DameArchives. 
View~_o__i_n__t____________
w_e_d_n.es_d_a_y,_D_e_c_e_m_b_e_r-11_,_1_9_8_s_p_a_g_e_l_o 
Bulgarian government denies individuals' rights 
'Tis the season to be jolly. In addition, here her or not he has been formally charged or has religion. Cases such as Orizov's must be apolitical international organization which at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, this is also the had a trial. He was arrested in connection with remembered and worked on at all times, espe­works for human rights and the release of season to be extremely busy. During the last the implementation of a systematic campaign cially when we close our eyes to the world not prisoners of conscience worldwide. If we few weeks of school there are simply not of forcing ethnic Turks to sign "voluntary immediately within our realm and decide that were all to give just a little time and write a enough hours In the day to accomplish all that declarations" renouncing their Islamic names equality and the protection of human rights letter or sign a petition, then eventually all of needs to be done. And no list can be compiled In favor of Bulgarian ones. According to c:y,e­have already been achieved. There is still a the Ibrahim Orizovs of this world could be that Includes everything that one needs to witness accounts, pollee with dogs and troops large amount ofwork to be done, and anyone truly free. Take this time during Peace and remember. In fact, something quite fre­with tanks surrounded villages with and everyone is capable ofhelping. People are Justice week to contemplate all that has yet to quently forgotten, especially during the predominantly Turkish inhabitants, often in in need all over the world. be done, and then give a little time and try to Christmas rush, is that not everyone has the the early hours of the morning. Officials Therefore, we should all remember amidst help. opportunity to live free, unimpeded, and un­visited every household and the inhabitants the rush of tift: Christmas season that this is a persecuted lives. The week of Dec. 3 to Dec. were forced to accept cards with new Bul­time of love and brotherhood. Moreover, this 10 is Peace and justice Week and it is a week garian names on them, thus a new ideotity. In is the season of giving. Throughout the Angie Lloyd is a juniorEnglish major and which we all should be careful not to forget. It some places mosques have been forcibly campus, the country, and the world are case coordinator for Amnesty lnternationaf is a time to remember or become aware ofall closed and anyone speaking Turkish in a groups such as Amnesty International, an at Notre Dame. the people in the world who do not enjoy the public place is liable to a summary fine. basic freedoms which we so thoughtlessly Bulgarian authorities throughout the take for granted. One example of a person country arrested in advan<:e many who might denied his basic freedoms is Ibrahim Orizov. actively oppose the name-changing policy 
and also many who refused to accept or to use Angie Lloyd the new cards. In fact, this is not the first time that Bulgaria has taken such an action..A similar campaign in the early 1970s saw guest column Pomaks, Islamicized Slavs, arrested en masse for opposing their names being changed. Op­Although the fate of Orizov, a Bulgarian ponents were usually imprisoned for a num­from the village of Orizovo, sounds absurd to ber of years for no reason other than being American ears, it is nevertheless an actual OC· Islamic. Thus one must seriously question the currence. He was arrested only because he is importance granted to human rights and an ethnic Turk and has an Islamic name. Very freedom in Bulgaria. It appears that it is far little information is known about his actual more important to the Bulgarian government plight other than that he was arrested bet­to be able to present a statistically "unified" ween Dec·. 1984 and Mar. 1985 and is cur­nation rather than guaranteeing its citizens rently imprisoned in a labor camp on the such basic rights as the freedom to retain island of Helene. The Bulgarian government one's name by birth, the freedom to speak any has not released any information about whet· language one chooses and the freedom of 
Northern Ireland's agreement begins new chapter 
Overshadowed by the Reagan/Gorbachev the auspices of a secretariat to be established reactionary violence and terrorism. It is the Loyalist community to let this agreement extravaganza, Garrett Fitzgerald, prime mini­in Belfast, to make a concc:rted effort to com­hoped the involvement of the Irish govern· work. ster of the Irish Republic, and Margaret bat terrorism. ment in the workings of the conference will If peace with justice were established in Thatcher signed a truly remarkable agree­The recent history of Northern Ireland, alleviate some ofthese tensions. Northern Ireland, I feel sure Nationalists ment. In essence, the accord recognizes the which has culminated in 16 years ofviolence, The Irish government's role as would be quite happy to remain in the United rights of both communities in Northern is rather complicated and begs close atten­representatives of the minority community Kingdom and enjoy the annual six billion dol­Ireland without compromising either the in­tion. The Loyalist rejection of the involve­would serve to make any future developments lar subvention from the London government. tegrity of the United Kingdom or the Irish na­ment of a "foreign power" in the "internal in areas such as security, education, local If the agreement is made to fail and the tional aspiration to unity. The agreement has affairs of the United Kingdom" stems from its government more acceptable to the polarization continues, Nationalists will received fairly widespread, although often fear ofbeing forced into a united Ireland. The Nationalist community. The conference will probably favor reunification of Ireland a few qualified support among the nationalists of Loyalists fear that as a minority in a United operate until such times as provincial govern­years down the road. Northern Ireland, while the Loyalist com­Ireland they would be treated in the same ment is returned to Northern Ireland. Sharing At any rate, the most interesting chapter in munity has unequivocally rejected it. manner which they treated Catholics. power at the executive level between the two Northern Ireland's history has yet to be 
For fifty years from 1921 to 1972, Northern communities is a precondition, set by suc­opened. It will start when one day Loyalists 
Hugh McManus Ireland had devolved government roughly cessiYe British governments, for devolution of realize they are no longer in the majority. To similar to the status one of the fifty states en­power to a local parliament. be quite honest, when that happens, Great joys in the: Union. For those fifty years an al­Under normal circunstances in a Britain will be more than glad to see the end of 
guest column most totalitarian state was perfected within democracy; majority rule is the norm; their involvement in Ireland. the forms of a parliamentary democracy. Dis­however, aside from the fact that such a sys­
The accord establishes an intergovernmen­crimination placed a selective pressure on tem has been thoroughly discredited by the Hugh McManus is a chemistry graduate tal conference responsible for all areas of life Catholics to emigrate. Despite their con­Loyalist community, it cannot work in a student at Notre Dame and a Nationalist in Northern Ireland. The British government siderably higher birthrate. the overall propor· country where a sizeable proportion of the from Northern Ireland. 


continues to administer the province, the tion of the population remained static at population, 40 percent, may be opposed to 
Irish government's representatives will have a around 33 percent. the very existence ofthe state. 
role somewhat greater than advisory and When peaceful civil rights agitation was A more urgent reason why it is imperative 
somewhat less than executive. The exact part started in the late sixties on nonsectarian and that an acceptable form ofgovernment should 
that will be played by the Irish government apolitical lines it was met with violent resis­be established in Northern Ireland is the con­
will probably be determined by the extent of tance by the Loyalist gmrernment. They had tinuing population shifts in the province. At 
the Loyalist backlash. Both governments·af­the same success in its suppression which the the moment, it is.estimated that of the people 
firm Northern Ireland's position within the government in South Africa is currently enjoy­under the age of thirty, the majority are Cat­
United Kingdom, recognize that this is the ing. The resurgence of the IRA was a dir•ect holic. Ifthis trend continues, and of course it 
wish of the majority In Northern Ireland and reaction to this and many later government · will, the Nationalist community will have a 
that there will be no change In the status ofthe disasters. voting majority sometime in the early part of 
province without the consent ofthe majority. In an ambience of violence and recrimina­the next century. 
Both further affirm that should a change be tion, moderate and basically reasonable lbe political vacuum in Northern Ireland is 
requested by the majority, such as Ifthere was people can be given to unreasonable and un­the breeding ground for terrorism. The 
a vote In favor of a reunited Ireland, then the reasoned action. The alienation and mistrust polarization of the communities resulting 
governments would facilitate that wish. Both which the Nationalist community feels for the from this is the reason why political ex­
governments reject any attempt at political systems and instrumen~ of government is tremists on both sides have considerable 
settlements through violence: and plan, with personified by the very few who engaged in popular support. It is in the best interests of 
Garry Trudeau 
MEANWHILt, WORKIN6 5TIFF5 UK& Me HAVe 70 PriTIN 12-HaJR l¥1Y5 TO 8e A&7DAFFORf) 7D 
liVE IN A 8{J/W­IN6 aJITH NC/6H­BO!<SL/KE HIM I 
THE.Rt-'s JlJ5T 
COMING UP,
NOJU5TIC& 

A CAI?.188EAN
IN ?HE.. 

MEP5n.Jl?ENT
:J[ I aJIN5123 MWON. 
f 

The Viewpoint Department P.O.BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Quote of the day 
"A good conscience is a continual Christmas." 
Benjamin Franklin 
(1706-1790) 
"Poor Richard's Almanac" 
-~-~· ~---­

"ie~P.-O_i_n__t_________________________________________'W_e_d_n_es_d_a~y,~D_e_c_em__b_er_l_l~,-19~8-S__~P_a~ge___ll 
Graduation is approaching much too fast now 
It is my senior year here at Notre Dame and those few emphatic words ofexperience con­tinue to scurry through my mind, "Just wait, by the time senior year arrives, you'll be ready to leave." When a senior dorm mate spoke these words four years ago, I never fathomed that such a horrendous feeling could occur in 
Gretchen Froehlke 
mixed emotions 

me. It was Freshmen Orientation Week, the best week of my life, I thought, filled with delirium, emotion, and fatigue. After that first invigorating week, I was undoubtedly shocked to hear such .a cynical and seemingly unrealistic foreboding. As far as I was con­cerned, four years was not nearly enough time 
P.O. BoxQ 
Committee thanks all who made kids' holiday 
DearEditor: 
The Junior class service committee would 
like to extend their warm thanks to those who 
made the adopt-a-child-for-Christmas 
program such a success. First we want to 
thank Lois Clark, Project Head Start, and the 
children's parents for all their cooperation. 
We also want to extend our gratitude to Bill Hickey and the people ofSouth Dining Hall for giving us a place to hold our party, as well as assisting in details. Finally, we want to thank our many volunteers and sponsors. We really appreciate all the time (especially at the night of the party) the volunteers put into the: program to make: the: evening turn out so well. 
To the: sponsors whose: children were unable to attend the party, we want to assure you that your gifts were: given to Head Start teachers and will be given to your adopted child. To those of you who did attend Friday night's activities, we want you to know that we are grateful for your eflons and en­thusiasm. You undoubtedly made a four year­old's Christmas that much merrier. 
Ann Seeley jose Vithayathil junior Class service committee 

No~ going to the lecture is not sign of ignorance 
DearEditor: 
This letter is in response to Kevin Mundy's article "Heads in the Sand" of the Dec. 6 issue ofThe Observer. 
According to Mundy, the entire student population of Notre Dame have their priorities set in the wrong order. I strongly disagree. In fact, the argument that he outlined in his article is not only invalid but displays a general ignorance on his part. 
Mundy bases his entire argument on one incident: lack ofattendance at a lecture given by Dr. James Muller. From this, Mundy goes on to say that the students of Notre Dame "have chosen to ignore the nuclear threat, and the outside world at large." How can he make such an inductive generalization? Anyone with the least bit of common sense should realize that such a conclusion cannot be drawn from the evidence at hand. 
In addition, as a student, I will admit that I 
did not attend the lecture, and neither did 
many of my friends. But, does that mean we 
are ignorant of the nuclear threat and of 
events that occur on an international level? If 
Mundy accuses us of this, then I invite him to 
confirm his claim. 
to spend in college. I proclaim·ed to my friends, "I want to be at Notre Dante for at least ten years." How else could I do all that I wanted to do and absorb all there is to be ab­sorbed? It was just impossible. The senior snidely smirked, "Just wait, just you wait." 
So, I waited. Senior year has arrived and it has been three years since I made my proclamation. A couple of weeks ago, during mid-terms, I shamefully admit that I reversed my proclamation. My perspective had changed at least 170 degrees, but not the full 180 degrees as yet. I told a close friend, "I am ready to leave Notre Dante." I have exhausted my mind with reading Plato's Republic, writing papers on Aristotle~s ethics and study­ing Kant's "Categorical Imperative." I wanted to get out and try the "real world." I found myself continually looking to the future, pic­turing myself in an office or an apartment or in 
a vast array of non-academic settings. The thought ofit all invigorated me. 
This past weekend, my heart jumped. My perspective turned back 170 degrees to its original position. It was as ifI was run over by the entire Notre Dante offensive line. My mom sadly mentioned, "Well, there are only two home games left in your college career." My heart was pumping as if I had just run a 1OK, "No, no, please, don't tell me that." Then, she added, "Yes, only six months to graduation." I was feeling faint, I almost passed out right on the sidewalk. "Please, I don't want it to end." I don't want it to be my last football game, or my last philosophy class, or my last Walsh Hall Mass. I just want to live across the hall from my friends for just a couple more years. I can't picture myself away from this University. 
Notre Dame is so much a part of my life and I am so much a part of Notre Dame. The two just cannot be separated. I have grown, lived 

Also, Mundy is only a freshman. How can he judge the student population after being at Notre Dame for less than a semester? Of the same reasoning, how dare Mundy suggest that the only interests of Notre Dame: students lie in "15 year old tales ofdrug use and abuse." I don't know about him, but I came: here for an education. Granted, thisleaves me less time to actively follow current events, but I made the choice to study here. That is why I am here. 
It is for this reason that I resent Mundy's condemnation of watching football games or Thursday night television. Everyone needs a break-has Mundy ever heard ofrelaxation? 
In shon, Mundy seems to be displaying his own ignorance by accusingothers ofdoingso. Perhaps if he digs his head out ofthe sand, he will come to realize this. 
CoraC.Peng Lewis Hall 

Historical influences on Church gave males edge 
DearEditor: 

We are writing in response to the Dec. 6 letter by Thomas D. D'Andrea in which he ex­presses the view that a male-only priesthood is designated by the Holy Spirit through religious tradition. We respectfully disagree, not on any Scriptural grounds, but rather, we 
believe  the  reasoning through  which  he  
reaches his conclusions is flawed.  
D'Andrea  correctly  assens  a  male-only  

priesthood is and has been a tradition since the time ofthe Church's origins. From this, he infers this and all other such traditions are or­dained by the Holy Spirit to which all should "humbly submit". 
The flaw ofD'Andrea's argument lies in this contention that the Holy Spirit dictates this tradition. He fails to distinguish between ep­hemeral traditions and immutable pillars of Faith. We believe not all church traditions are derived from the Holy Spirit's inspiration. Cer­tainly, there are definite Truths which transcend time and culture, such as the Resur­rection and ·the mysteries of the Eucharist; however, an all-male priesthood is not one of them. 
The all-male priesthood is a tradition which grew out of a historical context and has per­petuated by this institutional church -the Church which, contrary to D'Andrea's asser­tion, does have a palpable structure. Cenainly, the Church is a "unique entity", but it is ab­surd to disregard its identity as a hierarchical institution -a male institution which yields painfully to change, and which has chosen to exclude females from the full participation in our most fundamental tradition -the Mass. The notion offull participation in the Mass, 
far from being a faddish trend as D'Andrea sug­gests, embraces the self-evident reality that God is a being without gender and that God calls each of us, not as a male or female, but rather as people to strive to know,love,serve God better regardless of gender. Ultimately, the question will be how we have responded to God's calling. Sex roles and tradition, the ultimate core of D'Andrea's argument, will be left behind as we account for our responses to 
the will ofGod in our lives. 
Stephen P. Hogan Noln!Dame law student Paula]ean Wagner Pasquerllla West 
Coaches trapped by the crazy system of footb~ll 
DearEditor: 
I'm from Iowa. It was a good year: near­Heisman-winner Long, Hawks smelling Pasidina roses, even a good corn crop. I .cer­tainly enjoy games, roses, and popcorn. , 
But it is amazing, though, what "jock-o­
mania" can do. I lived in it for four years. It can 
dominatte. It can seduce. The International 
Writer's Workshop at Iowa (Roth, Vonnegut, 
Updike, and others graced it once) could be 
disbanded. The VanAllens could "radiate" to 
other institutions for lack of support. The 
1,000 bed med school hospital could close 
down. There would be an outcry ... a small 
one, but an outcry. But if Iowa announced 
tomorrow it was giving up intercollegiate 
football, the sky would rain pitchforks on the 
university president; he would be smothered 
in a silo. That's dominance. 
Now for seduction. Has intercollegiate 
sports allured itsowngood values into a loss, a 
real loss? The word "spon" stands for 
"amuse". Sports a-muse; they free up the voice 
to sing, the body to play. Hasn't the value of 
spon become a "dis-pon", a carrying away? 
Most collegiate sports have become 
caricatures ofwhat amateur, "one who loves," 
sports is meant to be. lip service is still paid to 
the traditional values of intercollegiate com­
petition-the formation ofcharacter, the instil­
lation ofasense ofdelight, play, "musing"-but 
when any of these come into conflict with 
winning, they are dismissed; they are seduced. 
Thus Faust resigns. A "winning" coach, a 
genuinely decent man who embodied 
everything this school hopes to standfor, save 
winning overwhelmingly. It is a testament to 
Notre Dame's standing as a serious school that 
they gave him five years to develop a winner. 
Iowa and most otherswould have dumped Fry 
or anyone else, after the first two or three 
years. But it wasn't that we just let him go. 

People threw garbage on his lawn, taunted his family and made threatening telephone calls. That is sick. It is a seduction ofintegrity. It is a dotninance that loses. 
Coaches are a trapped in a crazy system, let's face it. But there are some good ones. Schembechler ofMichigan did suspend two of his kickers from play just before his big game of the year because they had broken training rules. A lot of coaches would not have done that. A lot ofcoaches don't even have training rules. But the entrapmentofcoaches indicates how great universities come to serve as mere stages set for football and basketball teams, who in turn serve as fodder for the television entenainment industry. 
I don't think people should dump garbage on a coach's lawn when he loses a few games. I don't think they should carry him around on their shoulders and treat him like a god when he wins a couple. They should be delighted and amused. They should learn from losing, enjoy popcorn, and even, perhaps, smell a rose when it comes their way. 
BrlanMiclot Notre Damegraduate student 
Gerry Faust's smile will not be forgotten by ND 
DearEditor: 
He never lost his smile. Just two hours after he announced his resignation as head football coach at the University of Notre: Dame, Gerry Faust was walking through the corridors of the Athletic and Convocation Center the same way he always did -with a smile and awave for everyone. Despite all the adversity he had just experienced, he remained as cheerful and as pleasant as ever. Faust is a credit to his Univer­sity, religion, family, and community; he is the epitome ofsincerity, grace, and integrity. 
For those of you who find it so easy to 
criticize his game plans and play selections, I 
would like nothing more than to watch you go 
out on the football field and come away with 
one victory in five years, let alone 30victories. 
Maybe the Irish didn't defeat anyone on the 
road this year, maybe they have not playedin a 
major college bowl game in five years -maybe 
things didn't work out as expected for Faust. 
Things will work out for him in the future, 
however, because contrary to popular belief, 
Faust is a winner. life does not revolve around 
the win-loss column, as I hope you close­
tninded individuals soon realize. In a school 
that puts football in the proper perspective, Faust will be a definite asset. 
Mary]. O'Malley Badin Hall 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer tS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admtmstratton of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­stble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes, letters and the Inside Column present the viEtWS of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief .............................Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................ : ................ Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Lipo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief . ........................................ Philip H. Wolf 

and loved here at Notre Dame. There is no other place that can capture all that is Notre Dante. 
As I was walking to the Grotto this after­noon, I asked myself, "What are you truly feeling about graduating?" Three weeks ago, May 18, 1986, was not arriving soon enough. Now, I feel it is coming at me at I00 miles per hour. 
I have to chuckle at myself. I guess I really do not know how I feel about graduation. My mind tells me to think ofthe future four years; my heart tells me to reminisce ofthe past four years. Graduation arouses a gamut of emo­tions in the senior class ofNotre Dante. I must enjoy the next six months, these last six months, and appreciate each emotionofevery sad but happy day. 
Grethchen Fruehlke is a senior philosophy major atNotre Dame. 
Operations Board 
Business Manager .... . ........ Dav1d Stephen1tch Controller ................... . . Wilham J. Htghducheck Advertising Manager . . ...... Jim Hagan Systems Manager. .... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. . ............ John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 

.---------~----.-----------------------------------~-----------------­
The Observer Wednesday, December 11, 1985 --page 12 

New York Knicks rookie center Patrick Ewing goes up for a shot in a game with the Indiana Pacers last week. Yesterday, Eu•ing and and the Knicks beat the Pacers, 82-64. For complete NBA stundinl<s see Sports Wednesday on page I3. 
J 

Sports Briefs 
The ND wrestling team will travel to Valparaiso, Ind. today to take part in a meet with Valparaiso University and Drake University. -The Observer 
All DOviCe rowers of the Notre Dame Rowing Club should meet tonight at 7 in the uFortune Ballroom. For more in­formation call Mike Songer at 283-4108. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC ski team w111 hold a meeting for all members who will be taking part in next month's tryouts. The meeting will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Utde Theater. Members should bring checkbooks and insurance forms. ­
The Observer 

Men's crew members should report for practice tomorrow at ') p.m. at all concourses. Novice rowers are welcome. For more information call Chris Nye at 236-4400. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club requests that all members tum in their ergothon pledge money tomorrow from 6:30-8 p.m. at LaFortune Student Center. For more information call Mike Songer at 
283-4108. -The Observer 

Classifieds 
Andujar goes to Oakland in big trade 
Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -The St. Louis Car­dinals traded troubled, two-time 20­game winner joaquin Andujar to the Oakland A's in exchange for catcher Mike Heath and pitcher Tim Conroy, the teams announced yesterday. 
Andujar, who will turn 33 next month, was 21-12 with a 3.40 earned run average with St. Louis last season. But the right-hander dropped off dramatically during the second half of the year and was then hit hard in taking losses in both the National League playoffs and the World Series. 
Andujar, received a 10-day suspension at the start of the 1986 season. That punishment was handed out following his conduct during his team's I 1-0 loss in Game 7 ofthe World Series. 
He argued two consecutive close calls with home-plate umpire Don Denkinger and then bumped him before being ejected. 
Tenth-ranked Illinois lost to Tennessee last night by a ')4-') I margin in Knoxville, Tenn. The Illini (5-2) led by as many as I 0 points troughout the game until the Volunteers ( 3-1 ) grabbed the lead for good with 5:21 remaining. -AP 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofWortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Observer 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
phia Catholic League's Southern Division in scoring as both a junior and senior. Last season the 6-5, 205­pound Stevenson averaged 23.1 points and 11.2 rebounds as he cap· tained his team for the second straight year. 
A number of accolades came his way, as well. Stevenson was given AU-America mention by Parade, McDonald's, Basketball Weekly and USA Today. Additionally, he was a first-team choice on the Philadel­phia Inquirer's all-area team. 

Based on his performance so far and not surprisingly, Stevenson is gaining confidence in his abilities with each passing game, and, on the whole, he is pleased with the way things have gone for him at Notre Dame. 
"I'm making the transition to col­lege basketball a little smoother than I thought I would," he says. "I find myself not forcing shots I normally would. The best part of my transi· tion is that I'm being patient. 
"The adjustment has been more of a mental thing. There's three times more plays than we ever had in high school and the defense is more com· plicated, too." 
While the defense may be more complicated, it is not hard to figure out that Stevenson has nothing but a bright future in store for him. 
The (Jhserr·er ~~Hrt' Damt' otfit..t· lclc.Jtc.·t.J on rtw rh1rt.l floor ol I.Jionunc.· ~lutknl ( t•ntn. Jll t'P'' lld"lfit•d Jth l'rll\ln!( Irom') J m unlll I r m \1on<IJ\ lhrough hu.la\ lbt• ( lhst'TI'f'r '>aim \Ian·, otfin·. hKatt·d on lht· lhtrd Ooor of Haggar ( :oll.-ge (.enter. a<Tt·pts da"aftt·d, from 1.! ~0 p m until .~ p m ..\Ion· da\· thou~h Frida\ lkadline for nt·xt da\ da"alkds is .~ p.m..-\11 da~sifieds muM ht· prepatd. t•ath.-r m pt·r"tn or h\ mall ( ·hargt·" I 0 t'l'n" p..r fin~ t'hara<·· 1.-rs ·r dav 
LOST: HELPI!Ioet my.--and now I  LOST NOV. 25 LUNCH TIME AT SOUTH  Nice aami-lumiahed hou• in good neigh·  SKIS  for  ....:  Hart  Comp  CR'a  You've -nthem.  
NOTICES  cen'l -· They heve gold. rnel.ll ,_ and 11111'tly tinted '--· The _... -.ina Ul, .-11 brown c=-e. Hyou flnd  DINING HALL. -BLUE NO BOOK SAG W/lNITIAI..S M.W. PLEASE CALL. MIKE AT 234·1067. EXTREMELY IMPOR­ borhood for 3 · 2~. 6 BEDROOM HOME.CLOSE  TO  wlbindinga 200 cm,mlnt Erik 1823  You've h-dabout them. Now you cen get them! HOOP HYITIIIIA T-IHII'ITS  
them, pleMe C8l Joe at 3404. ~­ TANT  CAMPUS.272-8306  lor logan Center  
ahon or long aleevea  
EXPEAT TYPING 277-8!534 AFTER 5:30  L.oat: Kodak Dfec camera 3100 elthe LSU game either in the al8dium or on GI'Mn­ TICKETS  Call 2078 or 2089 lor delivery  
_,.NIMI!X.......INC. -~~"'I and !yplng 272-8827 TYPING ZT7-«>41 FRU PIC«UP & D&JVIUIY TYPING .-............,.. FEDERAL. STATE AND CIVIL SERVICE J08S NOW AVAII.AIIl.E IN YOUR AREA. FOR INFO. CALL (802) 837-3401 DEPT.13611. 1'110-TYPI • Over 11 .... ..... ~.. In lltUdenl ~ ......._,._.,..,...,_rn-IUI. LOST/FOUND I 'II• ll1e -lrx-ng/hi,.... THEAE ARE TWO THINGS I HAVE LOST  FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND GOLD LADIES QUARTZ WATCH BETWEEN WALSH ANO HAYE8-HEALY CALL DAN AT 2555 la.T: QENPOUS AlWARD OF FOUND Dletlncll"" .,wylwhlte ~ I 1111,_ lael llnl ­..... of __..,_,._._T_81 21..... ,. ,..,........... ~.... WOULD THE YOUNG MAN WHO BOAAOWED THE SPANISH BROCHURES FROM THE MODERN LANGUAGES OFFICE BEFORE THANKSGIVING PLEASE RETURN THEM IMMEDfATELY WE NEED THEM! LOST: A PAIR OF PEAAI.. STUD EAR­RINGS. ONE BROKEN. ENCASED IN A SMALL PLASTIC JEWELRY BAG. THEY WEAE A GRADUATION GIFT, AND HAVE MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUEIIF FOUND, PLEASE CALL BETH AT X31M11. l08TLOSTL08T LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST RED FOLDER MISSING FROM SOUTH DINING HALL. AWIUHO NOV 22. I WANT IT! IF FOUND. PLEASE.  fiekl. I can poaltively identify. P'-e return. Call Mary c.ol ]284-5242 La.T: n..GOUl MACILET IATU~ DAY NIGHT AT OR HTWIIN ~ NIUI & IP. PlaAM CALL AMY AT 12111F FOUND ANO I'LL IUY YOU A IIUR. I CAN'T MTURH HOMI WIT­HOUT IT OR IIY 11011 WILL Kll.­LLUU.III Loet: mullicolore<l woolen ac.rf "' ur•• •ntiiTI4Inlal value 12-11 in O'Shag or Nonh Dining H ... R-d. Call Mary at 2206 La.T: "-1 fOld ilncelel a.aurc.y, Dec. 7,.ACC,Iecllon 14.lenll-m.l v-... "--d. Cllll 272-7110a .,_ I p.m. HILP loel red lljli.... notMiook Friday. Dec. 6. Hu not• for Ut. CIMa-need for finele. If found, ~ cal Kev 1750. Thanks and......, ChrillmM. LOST MY KEYS BY THE BUSINESS BUILDING LAST THURSDAY. IF YOU HAVE FOUND THEM, PLEASE CALL GEOAGE AT 1072. TO THE GUYS IN GRACE HALL. WHO BOAAOWED MY UNCLE'S SPARE TIRE: PLEASE CALL ME AT 1072 TO RETURN IT. THANKS! LOST: by one very conluaed PE lreeh­man, one black ahoe, in front d Dllon or  WANTED NEED one mele roommate lor ne1<1 ........,er. Turtle Or-. C..2n-2118. $JOBS$J08S$J08S EARN OREA T MONEY. LOTS OF BENEFITS. CALL SMC ALUII.INAE, PARENTS, AND FRIENDS IN AN EXCITING FUNDFIA18­ING PROJECT. CALL MARTHA OR PAT IMMEDIATELY TO SIGN UP FOR THE TRAINING I;ESSION ON DECEMBER 11 FROM 1·10. HURRY -TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE!! OUR NUMBER IS 5351. HELP-NEED RIDE FOR XMAS!We 3 need rida to lllaclalburg.VII(Va Tech) N.C..wll be cloM-wll ahara $ & driving.Call1200. Need 2 RIDERS to D.C. Frenk 1389 Need RIDERS to BOSTON. L•ve 12/20,Relum 1113. Call JOAN 2n-Q926 ,...Icing dlatance to cempua: cheep rent. $93.75 I* month, ah•ecl utiltiea, lur­niahed. two bath, two relrigotal.... 287­7178  I badly need 3 UCLA bul<elllall ticketa. Contact JuNe 2n.0117 PERSONALS Th-·a a tMgnellhal'a puling on u•. puling u• agaiMIthe lence olth~ wotld'a Nmlta. • Richwd Bech, The lrlclfe Acrou F-er OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIOUOA. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., I BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Eem $$$lor .. thoee booU you didn't reed!! PANDORA'S wll buy your ueed booQ M-F 11-4. orwecen help~ Iinde b3A requl"""""tlor gradulllion to be fu~ filled ne1<1 y-. Certein Chicagoena '--•' CIL.A ChrillmM -da IOfor$1 attheCSC  LOST MISSING LOST MISSING LOST Red Folder mllaing from South Dining H.. R-a. How ia your couch? Old ilaurvive the night? Her date laid. "let'ago bacl< to the couch, II'a more cornlon.ble... &>. -...-r.ed. Ruin her image why don't ~? But we both enjOyed 11. Welch lhia apecelor more llbuaeto come. II you •• good 1'1 give youu. • keych•n with aomethlng apeciel on II for ChriatmM. Mikey the Choir Boy ia looM and he only hutwo finale. The ultimate horror atory. ........................................................ Bruce lpri,..r_, Uve Tepea F« .....UII indudee all 3 NO ahowa and manyfrorn84-85. Gr..t Gift. Ctall2011 for info THANKS AGAIN ST JUDE ............................,................................... SMC JUNIORS "DYNASTY" STUDY BREAK W£D. 8PM HAGGAR GAME ROOM So. Igu-we dig each other. bua how do we top • perfec1 nr.;.t? See~ at the Of· ficer·aaub. RIDE NEEDED TO PITT. FOR X·MAS BREAK (OA ANYWHERE ON OHIOIPA TPKE.)LEAVE 12/21-MARY28-4-4041. LISA VEE· GO TO SLEEP! MEl  
RECENTlY THAT ARE CMJCIM. FOR MY IUAVIVAL ON THIS CAMPUS AT THIS TIME Of YEAR: 1. Ml NO CMDIT UNION AUTO-TaLa UO.. CMID. You know you '*'l 11M money out d my 8CCOUnt becliuN you don'l have ll1e MOrel ..,.,.. no. I do, end I  PLEASE CALL X38e1. FOUND: one !)M d aiding glolluln room 123 Nleu......., Science ~­Go lo L<* .00 Found on 111e NCOnd llotlr d lA Fof1uneto identify and clllm.  Alumni. She thought ahe -at the beech. Call Mary Ake Duggan at45651f found. LOST:TENNIS SWEA TEA DURING THE SMCSENIORFOAMALFRIDAYATTHE AMERICAHA.PA08A8lY LOST IN  FOR SALE BI.AUPUNKT CAR STEREO. POWER BOOSTER. IEOUAUZER. 4 SPEAI<ERS .  Toooooooonn-!!! H~py tilth B­dayl!l LOVE, ~r aecret ildmirer D<lnnla Chrlatopher Petrllo You 're eweeomel Good lucl< at Bowling Gr•n. How about a 7 on Emil lhla WMk?  Holiday Special  
.-ttw-.111.AN LLIIIAN&OVI, Lm"T HAM!. ll'e navy on 111e bed<. dirty II'WY.on ll1e front. !lplt lll.le lAng. T81ce pity on my lrMzlng WI -IIF FOUND, ~ AETUAN TO PAULA  La.T: A PAIA OF SAPPHIRE STUD EARRINGS BETWEEN STEPAN PAAI<ING LOT AND FAAI.EY... I KNOW THIS IS A LONG SHOT, BUT IF YOU HAPPEN TO FIND THEM. PLEASE  SOME AOOM ON THE ELEVENTH FLOClA. PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT 288­55112 OR STOP BY 1101 COABY BLVD. FOUND BlACK PURSE ON 11th FLOClA  GREAT PACKAGE DEAL. CALL EVENINGS, 28._.342. 80 HONDA CIVIC, &-SPEED, VERY GOOD CONDITION. DEPENDABLE.  To The Utile Woman in 325: You apreed ell.-to everyone we know. Being your KK hM been a OFIANOioee elll*'ience.  50¢ off  
MIAANDA.(I'M IN THE THAHKSIIO MUCH IIIII  DfRECTORY.)  CALL JUUE AT 4071.  OF THE AMERICANA FAIDAY NIGHT CALL28-4-4405 TO IDENTIFY.  $2200.CALL28811 AFTER 5.  Merry Chrlatmu! Love, Your 10<  Send  a  Christmas  
LOST: IF YOU WEAE AT ALUMNI'S FORMAL NOV 23, YOU MAY HAVE MY COATI! MY FRIEND PICKED UP A WOMEN'S LONO BEIGE WOOL COAT WHICH LOOI<S A LOT UKE MINE. IF YOU HAVE A SIMILAR COAT WITH  MISSING: Wllel, INiher. maroon ­con­teine v...,..idenllfk:aUon If ~ have it or know ­IIIII. pleMe return to 146 ~ (3478), ..onymoutly If you ...,.-GJII NEED IT lACK. Thenka. Mer!< Uckona  LOST-SET Of KEYS ON A BALLOON KEY CHAIN. LOST POSSIBLY AT THE CENTURY CENTEA ON FRIDAY NIOHT.IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MARY 284-5073.  IDEAL CHIIIIT1IAI GIFT l'lenllllwwllli....-1c.lendar ,,. 'l..lromlnHe luy 81 Dlnl,. ..-.81 clmw on T ...... Dec.10& ..... Dec 11. S1uclent Dla-.nt Pllce: 11.00 (tu 1,.. cluclad)  B. Kruth, Rum from floor 3, coke from 5 and Ice on 7. Or -that coke on 8? Whatever, I think we mlxed realy well. Perhepa another dale aoon. I hope? Cell anytime. You're the cooleel! P.S. H~py Birthday .-fy.  •  · personalto a friend. • • Just bring In this coupon and receive 50 cent• off!'. your next class,tled ad  
IIAOWM mtM AND IIAOWN IIUTTONS PLEASE CALL 28-4-5643 OR 15626. I HAVEYOUASI LOST: NOTAE DAME CLASS RING ON PATH IIETWEEN HUALEY AND ART BUILDING IN THE SHOW CALL SCOTT  FOUND: ORTHOOONTIC RETAINERS (YUCK) AND VARIOUS SINGLE EAR­RINGS. IF YOUA OVEABITE IS OET­TING A LITTLE OBVIOUS OR IF AN EAAI..OBE FEELS UNDULY EXPOSED CI..AIMTHESEAATICLESATTHELOST AND FOUND, SECOND FLOClA  FOR RENT Nlcefumiahed hamular ne1<1 achool y- APPLE 1200 MODEM. VERY LITTLE USE. $200 O.B.O 231H180 OR 233­12911. VW BUG 11170 Excellent running condl­ HEY O.C. WOitK IT AT l.U'I 1..1:!'1 LU'I Need ride 10 COLUMBUS, OHIO Friday, 12/20 P.M. -Monica4143 Dan-lunch hM never been the Ame  order. One coupon per order (order Includes:. total days ad Is to run). Offer expires Dec. 12, 1985.  
4075 REWAIIID OfFERED  LAFORTUNE.  277-3804  tion.$300 linn.  aince we've mel youi-Debbie&Dianna  

~-----------------------------------------------~~---------~--------------~~---------------------.~--------~~--------~~~----~--~.. ........... 
Wednesday, DecembtJ 11,1985-page 13
The Observer 
Q @ SPORTS WEDNESDAY @ 8 
Notre Dame Men's Basketball Statistics through 12/11/85 · · 
Football 

Won4, Lost1 Player G/GS MIN/AVG FG/FGA PCT FT/FTA PCT REB/AVG PF/FO 
Rivers  5/ 5  158/ 31.6  31/  65  .4n  25/ 30  
Barlow  4/ 4  118/ 29.5  21/  46  .457  16/ 18  
Price  5/ 0  101/ 20.2  21/  30  .700  1/ 13  
Royal  5/ 5  143/ 28.6  12/  25  .480  24/ 34  
Stevenson  5/ 2  105/ 21.0  19/  36  .528  4/  4  
Hicks  5/ 4  101/ 20.2  14/  31  .452  7/  8  
Voce  5/ 0  59/ 11.8  8/  14  .571  4/  4  
Kempton  4/ 4  62/ 15.5  8/  14  .571  2/  3  
Connor  3/ 0  12/  4.0  3/  7  .429  2/  3  
Smith  4/ 0  20/  5.0  2/  7  .286  0/  0  
Dolan  5/ 1  85/ 17.0  1/  7  .143  1/  3  
Nicgorski  2/ 0  3/  1.5  1/  1  1.000  0/  0  
Beeuwsaert  4/ 0  26/  6.5  1/  5  .200  0/  1  
Peters  3/ 0  7/  2.3  0/  2  0.000  0/  0  
Team Rebounds  

.833  15/3.0  14/ 0  
.889  32/8.0  9/ 0  
.538  16/3.2  8/ 0  
.706  16/3.2  6/ 0  
1.000  14/2.8  9/ 0  
.875  21/4.2  9/ 0  
1.000  17/3.4  9/ 0  
.667  12/3.0  8/ 0  
.667  2/ .7  2/ 0  
0.000  2/ .5  1/ 0  
.333  18/3.6  9/ 0  
0.000  1/ .5  0/ 0  
0.000  6/1.5  4/ 0  
0.000  1/ .3  0/ 0  
20/4.0  


Notre Dame 5 1000/200.0 142/ 290 .490 92/121 .760 • 193/38.6 88/ 0 Opponents 5 1000/200.0 127/ 279 .455 54/ 81 .667 • 145/29.0 109/ 5 
• Deadball rebounds are not included in totals: Notre Dame 11, Opponents 7 
NFL 
NATIONAL CONFIJIENCE 
Eat 

w L T Pet. PF 0-9 5 0 .643 313 N.Y. Gianta 9 5 0 .643 350 Wuhtng1on 8 6 0 .571 243 Philadelphia 6 8 0 .429 235 St. Louie 5 9 0 .357 246 
c-hi x-ChiCIIQO 13 1 0 .929 400 Minneeota 7 7 0 .500 298 Detroit 7 7 0 .500 267 GrMflBay 6 8 0 .429 291 Tampa Bay 2 12 0 .143 254 
Weal y-L.A. Rama 10 4 0 .714 288 San Fran. 8 6 0 .571 349 N-011eane 5 9 0 .357 265 Atlanta 2 12 0 .143 252 
AM~CANCONFIRENCE 
Eat 

w L T Pet. PF N-England 10 4 0 .714 301 N.Y. Jell 10 4 0 .714 350 Miam1 10 4 0 .714 370 lndlanapolie 3 11 0 .214 255 Buffalo 2 12 0 .143 176 
c-hi Cincmnati 7 7 0 .500 394 aeveland 7 7 0 .500 249 Pittlburgh 6 8 0 .429 339 Houston 5 9 0 .357 247 
Wee! L.A. Ratdera 10 4 0 .714 325 Denver 9 5 0 .643 339 Seattle 8 6 0 .571 322 San Diego 7 7 0 .500 413 Ka,_aty 5 9 0 .357 266 a-clinched dlvlalon title y-cllnched plrfoflllerth 
lttlunlay'a Gamee ChiCIIQO at N.Y. Jeta Kanaaa City at Denver lu"*Y'a Gamee Buffalo at Pltllburgh Cinconnati at Wuhing1on GrMfl Bay at Dettoit Houllon at Cleveland lndianapolia at Tampa Bay Minneeota at Atlanlll N.Y. Giantaat 0­San Fran at N-Orleanl Philadalphia at San Diego St. Louia at L.A. Rame Seattle at L.A. Ratdln llonday'l Game 
N-England at Miami PA 281 245 272 255 341 
175 308 303 
315 397 
247 226 354 429 
PA 237 235 
293 
347 323 
376 
236 303 
350 
299 
292 
263 363 312 

NBA STANDINGS 
EatwnConf-w-..Con'­Atlantic Dlvlalon Ill~ Dlvtalon w L Pet. aa w L Pet. aa Boaton 18 3 .857 Houllon 16 7 .696 
Philadelphia 11 10 .524 7 Denver 14 8 .636 1.5 ~Jeraey 12 11 .522 7 San Antonio 13 10 .565 3 Wuhing1on 10 11 .476 8 Utah 13 11 .542 3.5 N-Yorl< 6 16 .273 12.5 Dallaa 11 10 .524 4 
c-hi Dlvlalon Sac:ramanto 7 15 .318 8.5 Mi'-ukee 17 8 .680 Pacific Dlvlalon Dettoit 14 9 .6011 2 L.A.l.ak"" 18 2 .900 Atlanta 10 12 .455 5.5 Porlland 14 11 .560 6.5 Cleveland 9 12 .421 6 
Seattle 10 13 .435 9.5 Chicago 8 17 .320 9 Goldan State 9 16 .3M 11.5 Indiana 5 16 .236 10 L.A. Clip.,.,. 8 14 .364 11 
Phoenix 5 16 .236 13.5 

Laat Night'a "-'118 
~Vorl< 82, Indiana 64 Houaton 134, Utah 105 Detroit 130. Cleveland 120 San Antonio 109, ChiCIIQO 107 MitwaukM 117, Saattle 96 Bolton 11~·. Adanta 110 
L.A. Clipper~ 120, Dallaa 118 N-J-y 106, Sacramanto 100 
Porlland 14, Golden Stale 92 
'• ...... 
. . . 
·Marley was dead: to begin with. register of his burial was signed by
IIff:i·i 
the clergyman~ the clerk~ the under­..... :··.... ·. 
taker~ and the chief mourner. Scrooge 
........... •.·····••• ~:~~~~~~~;: f~~r~~~~~i~=~= ~::s~~~d 
·... : .... ·.·. 
........ put his hand to. Old Marley was dead 
·.._... ·.··:_..._.: as doornat·l • 
: :··:.. 8 ... 
.......... ·. 
................... 
:::.::.::::..:.::::.:·. 
;:.:;~;
;::::·>:::·:/:: 
.._.-..:....·..:....-.. 
........ ·.... ·.. 
.··.... . 

·····:.r9~~G~~:.: ::~,~·~r~~~~~~~~~¥;~~m#~~t~@ 
Top20 
The Top Twenty colege I~ -In
AST BK ST PTS AVG 
The MMx:ialed "'-pol, with nr.t-plece 
20  1  9  87  17.4  
5  3  6  58  14.5  
1  1  4  49  9.8  
4  4  10  48  9.6  
4  2  3  42  8.4  
12  2  9  35  7.0  
1  5  2  20  4.0  
3  0  0  18  4.5  
1  0  0  8  2.7  
3  0  0  4  1.0  
5  2  4  3  0.6  
0  0  0  2  1.0  
1  0  2  2  0.5  
0  0  0  0  0.0  

17. Ohio State 84-0 226
60 20 49 376 75.2 
18. Florida Stale 8-3-o 130 
58 19 49 308 61.6 
19. Olda'loma State 8-3-o 112 
20. ao.t~ng ar... 11-{)-{) 74 (tie). Maryland 84-0 74 

NHL STANDINGS 
PRINCE OF WALES CONF!ReNCE Cl..ARENCE CAIIP8EU. CONFIJIENCE Adame Dlvlalon Smythe Ovlalon w L T GF QA Pia. w L T GF QA Pia 
Quebec 16 10 1 108 86 
Bol1on 13 10 5 110 102 Montreal 13 10 3 118 99 Buffalo 13 13 2 100 92 Hartford 12 12 0 99 99 
Patrtck Dlvlalon Philadelphia 21 8 0 131 86 Wuhing1on 17 7 3 103 80 N.Y.IIIel 11 10 6 103 106 N.Y. Ranuer-13 14 1 101 93 
N-Jeraey 12 13 1 99104 Pitllburgh 11 14 3 106 102 
Laat Night'a "-'118 St. Louie 7, Edmonton 3 Clllgllry 6, LOI AngliM 5 Philadelphia 7. Bolton 4 Quebec 7, Buffalo 3 Wuhing1on 3, Toronto 2 N.Y.Iatandera 7, Pitllburgh 4 
votee in perenth-. IIlia -.·a..cordi llld Ioiii pointe. Pointe baaed on 2().1S..18­17 etc. Noire 011111 CJilP0'*1ta .. 
italicized. 
1. Penn smte (45) 11-{)-() 1086 
2. Miami lo-HJ 1001 3. Olda'loma (5) 11).1-Q 178 4.1..... (2) 11).1-Q 173 5. lllichlfllln (I) S..l-1 886 6. Florida S..1-1 808 7. Nalnll<l S..2-o 707 8.T-8-1-2 610 9. BYU 11-2-o 633 
10. AkFotce 11-1-Q 561 11. T-A&M S..2-o 556 12; LSU S..l-1 410 13. UClA 8-2-1 367 14.-S..2-o 361 15. Allll:llma 8-2-1 3n 
~ 
16. Auburn 8-3-o 2n 
~ 
1 

33 Edmonton 20 5 4 150 110 44 31 Calgary 16 8 3 122 96 35 29 Winnipeg 9 17 3 97 135 21 28 Vancouver 9 17 3 107 125 21 24 L01Angelea 7 17 4 97 142 18 
Norrta Dlvlalon 42 St. Louie 12 11 3 95 100 27 37 ChiCIIQO 9 13 4 102 117 22 26 Minneeota 7 14 6 102 110 20 27 Detroit 7 15 4 85 126 18 25 Toronto 7 17 3 100 122 17 25 
Tonlght'a Gamee Montreelat Hartford 
N.Y. 
latanderlat Pitllburgh 

N.Y. 
Rangnat ~Jeraey St Louie at Toronto Minneeota at Detroit 


Edmonton at ChiCIIQO Winnipeg at Vancouver 
Basketball 
Tqp20 
The TOR Twenty colege baal<etllall taama in The Aalociated Pnaaa pol, with lirat-plaoe votee in parenth-, thie -.·arecorda and total pointa. Pointa baaed on 21>-1S..18· 17 etc. Notre Dame opponenta are 
italicized. 
1. No. Cerol/na (47) 8-0 1281 2. Michigan (13) 8-0 1213 3. Duke(4) s-o 1162 4. ~uae 8-0 1100 5. Georgetown 4-o 956 6. ~a Tech 4-1 956 7. KaNa 6-1 918 
8. Oklahoma 8-0 7n e. Ken1Ucl<y s-o n4 
10. tlnoia 5-1 614 11. LSU 8-0 613 12. Memphia State 8-0 5115 13. UNLV 5-1 518 14. St. John'a 6-1 474 15. Louiavi.. 3-2 311 16. UAB 5-1 302 
17. NolnDMie ., :111 18. Indiana 2·1 228 19. DePaul 3-o 113 20. Ohio State 8-0 85 
Having fun at 211 

Happy 21st Scott 
From your friends at NO and SMC 
The Observer Wednesday, December 11, 1985 -page 14 
Marshall interested in Faust 
HUNTINGTON, W.Va. · Former Notre Dame football coach Gerry Faust slipped onto the Marshall Uni­versity campus for five-and-a half hours yesterday to Interview for the vacant head coaching position at the school, the coach said. 
"I didn't want anybody to know that I was here, but It kind ofslipped out of the bag," Faust told The Par­thenon, Marshall's student newspaper. 
Faust, who left Notre Dame last month after compiling the most losses ever by a Fighting Irish coach, said he was being considered as a replacement for former Marshall football coach Stan Parrish. 
Parr\sh has quit to become head coach at Kansas State University. Sports Information Director Mac Yates said Marshall Athletic Director David Braine Is accepting applica­tions for Parrish's job until Dec. 18. Braine has said he wants to fill the post by Christmas. 
The Parthenon said Faust met with Braine and Marshall President Dale Nitzschke, among others. 
While touring football coach Mar­shall's Fairfield Stadium, Faust refused to elaborate on his estima­tion of the school and its football program. 
Judge roles Baltimore has no right to Colts 
TWOYEARS IN THE ARMY COULD GETYOUR CAREER ROLLING. 
Today's job market is a real jungle. Everyone wants experience, but no one's willing to give it. The Army's different. 
Consider this: ifyou invest just two years in the Army, you could come out with valuable experience in a skill ofyour choice. 
The Army has a wealth oftwo-year skills to choose from. Skills in Armor, Engineering, Com­munications, and more. Many ofthese skills have civilian job applications. So you won't go into the interview empty-handed. 
Don't stall. Take off in a new direction with a two-year Army enlistment. Call your local Army Recruiter for details. 
SERGEANT LANE 291-234-4187 
......___ ARMY. BEALLYOU CAN BE.-____. 

Mattingly named 1985 most valuable player 
Aallociated Prcll8 home runs this year. His 145 RBis 
were the most in the American 
ST. LOUIS -New York Yankee's League since Cleveland's A1 Rosen first baseman Don Mattingly yester­had 145 in 1953 and the most by a day was named The Sporting News Yankee since Joe DIMaggio's 155 in Major League Player of the Year for 1948. He also led AL first basemen 1985, and Kansas City Royals' with a .995 fielding percentage, ear­General Manager John Schuerholz ning his first Gold Glove. was named the Executive of the Schuerholz, the executive vice Year. president and general manager of 
Mattingly, a native of Evansville, the Royals, edged Toronto Bluejays' Ind., is only the third Yankee in the GM Pat Gillick in voting for Ex­last 2 5 years to receive the award, ecutive of the Year. which is given by a panel of editors The Sporting News noted that from The Sporting News. Roger Schuerholz had engineered person­Marls won the award in 1961, and nel changes that brought the World Ron Guidry won it in 1978. St"ries championship to Kansas City 
ll.f<~ttinalv batted .~24 and hit ~5 this year. 


WED.-$.75 cents Mixed Drinks end E~sn og Speci el s! 
THURS.-$.50 cents Drafts. A 1 so, if you buy e Senior Class mug, you get it filled for $.50 cents!!! 
FRI.-Lunch: Beer, Subs, & Pi zze. Night: KGB Night!! Weer overcoets & brinq oozi es! A11 comredes welcome!! 
Also, Stoly speciels & door prizes! 
SAT.-Fine 1 C 1 e eren c e 5 e 1 e -A11 Dri n k s ere under$ ·t, so be there for the Clubs final night or the semester!!! g 
FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: EIRYAN DEDRICK 283-1069 239-7521 

BALTIMORE-A federal judge yes­terday permitted owner Roben lr· say to keep the Colts in Indianapolis, ruling that Baltimore officials did too little too late when they sued to retrieve the National Football League franchise last year. 
A 19-page decision by District Judge Walter E. Black, Jr., upheld lr· say on every major argument regard­Ing the city's legal attempt to condemn the team In the public in­terest and return it to Memorial Stadium as city-owned property. 
Black threw out the lawsuit wit­hout holding a trial, rejecting the city's claim that major facts in the case were in dispute. 
Black said the city was wrong to have waited until after the Colts' secretive overnight departure in March 1984 before filing its con­demnation papers. Black added that the condemnation efl'on was fatally flawed because the city had not paid lrsay for the team. 
Also rejected by Black was the city's argument that lrsay did not receive the consent of fellow NFL owners to move the franchise, as re­quired by NFL bylaws. That bylaw clearly had been suspended at an NFL meeting nearly four weeks before the move, Black ruled. 
In the face of such a strong deci· sion, city officials were uncertain yesterday whether to appeal. 
Deputy City Solicitor Ambrose T. Hartman said the case was so lmpor· tant that an appeal is likely. But Hartman noted that Black drafted "a tightly written opinion," which would make an appeal difficult. 
Mayor William Donald Schaefer said it was important for the city to explore every avenue in the case. He said Baltimore hopes to attract anot­her NFL franchise by building a new spons arena and lobbying for a federal bill to force the NFL to create an expansion team for Baltimore and other cities. ~ 
-----~-------------------------­
-

'JI['t(Jt~C3L~---------------------------------------vv--e.d.ne_s_d_a_y_,n
__ec_e_m__b.er__l_l,_l_9_8_s___P_a_g_e_l_S 
Bloom County 
1'HfY'l?e
!IN €NVWJK I 
RXINfliN 8/U 
CONiff?OMISIN& 11/l{?{(fSSffl 
1/MM... 
ffCnlf?€5 OF w...
1lE Cl1r'5 /i'a!J1. 
HMM... 

I
JMN€. 1H€ SOVter
I • 

KfRKPirTI?fCK / EM8A5.5Y•.. 
I 

Zeto 
WAKE' UP £VER<O£!f 
IS /lC£ HAPP'(l<JNE Wl'rrl 
WI3SS WAKE-UP CAJ..L! 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
B?IWR'5 NOTe-­
111€ f'f?€C£(l(fh €XCH!It« WIIS fiN ai/Mft.£tJF ''f(.((f5HAfltWfN(?~ a:(, II SI/6Tl£ HINT tJF Pt.tJT flt'lctOP­M€NrS 70 COif!. f/ COttM:W Wci?­
!IKY flfVIC£, IT'S r:FTE'N (J5Ef1 IN CfMI?AST 70 IINOTHfK, /..ESS­tftfPP&SS!V£; t.fTCTW?Y P€VfC€. /HI/ Of •MAKING fT 1/f115 YOII 60::. WHICH, BY 1Hfi WilY, IS f/ (.{TfKI/f?Y fl€VIU f'f?((}(J@fll.Y S£!£N IN OT1I€P.. fftmJR€5•. S<ICH 1/S, 51/Y, "Nf/NCY ~ 
EM Nei'€R, NEV!F{ HeRe. 
RcMEMB€1{: 'RJReSHI/flOWIN(?':. yO(JR. ewe n; (//llt.ITY trref?ll1llf?c. 
Kevin Walsh 


"Oh, yeah? If you're alone, then whose eye is that?" 


Wednesday, December 11, 1985 -page 16
S~orts 
Lopsided victories mark opening of 1985 interhall basketball season 
ByTERRYI.YNCH scored on two tip-in dunks and Over in the ACC League, Alumni I Spvrts Writer added excitement with a goaltend­kicked off its season in a much ingcall. stronger form than their counter­The 1985-86 interhall basketball "Alumni was a little shaken up parts did, as the Dogs smashed the season tipped off last week with with our size advantage," noted Off-Campus Bombers, 70-51. Team some fairly substantial margins of team captain John Chute. "Once we captain Ken Schuerman and Bill victory for the various A-teams on started to use the press, we took ZadeH poured in 18 points apiece in and offthe Notre Dame campus. them out oftheir game for the rest of a game that the Dogs controlled the 
"It was our first win in two years," the way. They just didn't match up entire night. explained Howard's captain, Phil well with us. In other ACC League action, Dil­Buckingham, after his men's inter­"Even so, we're going to have to lon I surprised preseason favorite hall basketball team pulled off a 53-work, especially in practice," added Morrissey with a .43-29 win, while 41 victory against Holy Cross in Chute. "We tended to lose con­Grace II downed Flanner II by a 54­their first game of the 85-86 season. centration once we got the lead." 42 margin. The Howard victory was just one of In the Big Sky League, Flanner I the many signs that this year's com­Meanwhile, in other Big Ten has jumped out of the gate with two petition will provide for a whole League action, Dillon II beat wins against Zahm and Stanford. new interhall scene. Pangborn, 46-26. While the team has yet to play any . 
Aided by an outstanding effort While the demolition of Alumni coordinated ball, it is easy to see that from center Lee Ritzau. and some raised some eyebrows in interhall the team is deep in talent. Playing a tempo-controlling play from guard action, perhaps the singlemost im­tough man-to-man defense, Flanner I Rich Wahlen, the Howard team took portant player of the men's basket­used the services of Joel Lump last an early lead that it would never ball league when the play gets night in its victory over Stanford. relinquish. intense after break will be Lou Holtz. Lump, who "was hitting everyth­
If Holtz decides not to allow his ing from the outside," according to 
The "Air Otters" ofSorin took off players to participate in interhall Flanner I captain Eric Grasberger, in fine form in their first game of the sports, or makes it extremely dif­turned in an outstanding, 31-point season, as they demolished an un­ficult to do so, teams like Sorin, Stan­performance in the 61-47 win. dermannned and overwhelmed ford, and Morrissey could be in big Stanford, however, won its first Alumni II squad by 55 points, 78-23. trouble come January. Sorin, for ex­game against last year's league cham­Mark Trautmann, a 6-6 forward, ample, could end up losing Andy pion, Grace, in a stunning 65-60 up­chipped in with 12 points for the Ot­Heck, Rick DiBernardo, and Steve set. In other Big Sky games, Keenan ters while freshman Andy Heck Beuerlein-three key players. defeated St. Ed's, 71-52. 

Freshman guard Stevenson earns starting role for Irish 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Editor 

It's not an uncommon sight in Philadelphia to see young boys gat­hered around a playground basket, shootinga basketball with no real or­ganization to their play. After moving from Los Angeles to Philadelphia in the seventh grade, about all Notre Dame guard Mark Stevenson ever did was "shoot around with a few friends." 
Now just five games into his col­legiate career, however, Stevenson is the fifth-leading scorer for the 4-1 Irish basketball team as he is averag­ing 8.4 points per game. After a rough start, he is Jiving up to all the preseason expectations of Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps, who has thought enough of the freshman's play to give him astarting assignment in the last two games. 
Stevenson never really took bas­ketball seriously until the eighth grade, though, despite the fact that his father, Jack, played briefly with the world-famous Harlem Globetrotters in the late 1960s. 
"I don't even remember how I started playing basketball," Steven­son says. "I used to run a lot oftrack when I was younger. But people al­ways told me, 'You're going to be tall, you should play basketball."' 
That advice was finally heeded by Stevenson, ~ho was 5-11 by the time he was in eighth grade. By the next year, he was 6-1, and basketball had become more than just a passing interest for him. 
Similarly, basketball had been more than just a passing interest for Stevenson's father, who made the sport into his livelihood for a short period of time. After playing college ball at Trinidad College in Colorado, jack Stevenson turned to profes­sional basketball for a Jiving. 
At 6-11, the senior Stevenson brought his talents both to the Globetrotters and the New Jersey Reds (since renamed as the Was­hington Generals), the patsy team the Globetrotters regularly play. He spent time with the Trotters during 1968 and '69, but was hampered by a problem with one of his knees. 
Mark Stevenson was too young at the time to remember much about the short-lived basketball career of his father, nor does he know many details ofhis father's career. 
"I only got to watch him one time where I really knew it was him," says Stevenson. "He never really told me any stories about those days, either." 

While Stevenson's father did take an interest in his son's career, he did not try to coach the budding star too much. The only thing Jack Steven­son really tried to get across to his son was a lot of advice based upon his own experiences -advice like that about the value ofan education. 
"My father never really coached me," Stevenson recalls. "Everything I did was basically on my own. He would point things out, but never told me to do something. He was very laid back. 
"He did do one thing, though. He always stressed education. He would say to me, 'I've been through it all in basketball. I'll tell you one thing. There will be no basketball if you don't get your grades.' He was real proud of me when I decided to come to Notre Dame because of the education I could get here." 
Now that he is at Notre Dame, Stevenson is quickly making his mark on the 1985-86 Irish squad, and his contributions have not gone unnoticed, least ofall by Phelps. 
"He's nor a great shooter, t>ut he's a great scorer," says the Notre Dame coach. "He has gotten more com­fortable with each game and has made it more competitive for some other guys like (Scott) Hicks and Ooseph) Price. Defensively, I think he has some things to work on, but he has shades o( being what (Kelly) Tripucka or (Adrian) Dantley were for us." 
Stevenson has fit in nicely at the off-guard spot for the Irish after a brilliant prep career at Roman Cat­holic High School in Philadelphia. At Roman Catholic, he led the Philadel­
see IRISH, paRe 12 
The NCAA needs to exercise more common sense 
Hello again, everybody! It seems the National Commmitee for the Absolutely Asinine (NCAA) has struck again. 
In Its extremely finite wisdom, the NCAA has cracked down in recent months on a number ofhardened criminals who have threatened to ruin collegiate athletics. First, the NCAA suspeneded Robert Morris guard Mike Brunson for two games, because he played in a summer league not sanctioned by the NCAA. 
Glad we nipped that in the bud. Robert Morris might 
have been a contenderfor the nation~ championship ifwe 
let that one slide through. 

Next, the NCAA denied Brigham Young's appeal to restore eligibllity to point guard Mike Maxwell. Maxwell sutfered a knee injury In the middle of his junior year, and then went on a two-year mission as is required by the Mor­mon church. 
Forget about that freedom ofreligion junk. We're talking college basketball here. 
Finally, last week, the NCAA came to its finest hour. Steve Alford-that clean-cut, All-American guard at Indiana who helped the U.S. win the gold medal in 1984 -was suspended for one game. His heinous crime was allowing his photograph to be used in a sorority calendar that was used to raise money for a girls summer camp. 
God forbid we allow these players to perform a non­profit, humanitarian act. We'll spoil the image ofthe NCAA. 
Right now that image couldn't be lower. The NCAA is running around like the Keystone cops, condemning players from respectable programs on technicalities. Meanwhile, It seems to be ignoring major violations by schools with shady reputations. 
As of yet, nothing has been done about the Lexington Herald-Journal's revelations of illegal payments to players at Kentucky. Nothing has been done about Sports 11­

Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 
fustrated's investigauve report uncovering possible recruiting violations at LSU, even after basketball coach De.le Brown referred to the NCAA as "gestapo bastards." Only a minor punishment was given to Houston for its im­proper recruiting ofTito Horford. The NCAA has been so worried about petty larcenies, it has missed the grand thefts that are going on. 
The Alford incident was particularly astounding, con­sidering the offense he committed. NCAA regulations do prohibit promotional use of an athlete's name or photograph. If that's the case, howt:ver, then what is the NCAA going to do with the 30-second promotional spot done by Alford this summer in an anti-drug and alcohol campaign? It certainly appears as though a double standard is operating at NCAA headquarters. 
Ofcourse, the people at the NCAA should be somewhat used to that, considering the recent revelations about the financi:u status of Walter Byers, the organization's ex­ecutive director. It seems that Byers' idea of justice is to rob from the poor and give to himsdf. 
Case in point ...The Washington Post recently revealed that Byers, whose yearly salary was 1;78,450 in 1983, used a 3,000-acre ranch he owns in northt:ast Kansas to secure a $500,000 loan due in 1981. As oftoday, the loan still has an outstanding balance of $455,000 ~tnd is being extended with an eight percent interest rale, as opposed to the bank's prime rate of 12.5 percent. 
While Byers has been reaping the benefits from his loan, he has continued to establish policies refusing to allow ath­letes with financial need to work part-time jobs and even limits the amount of federal aid available to athletes on partial scholarship. It seems that Byers once again finds himselfentrenched in hypocrisy. 
Should Byers continue his reign of ineptitude, Notre Dame may find itself the next target of an NCAA probe. One needs to look back to only last year to recall the "Men of Notre Dame" and "Women of Notre Dame" calendars. llle women's calendar featured Laura Lee, a member at that time of the Notre Dame women's tennis team. The men's calendar featured three different Irish athletes. In both cases, the money went to charitable organizations, but that doesn't seem to matter to the NCAA, as it has shown in the Alford case. 
What the NCAA needs to do is exercise a novel approach like using common sense in the future. It's fine ifthe NCAA is going to make a crackdown on rules violators, but it must remember some violations are more important than ot­hers. 
As for now, it looks like the NCAA is living proof of Ben­jamin Disraeli's observation, "Uttle things affect little minds." 
Pick of the Week. .. Speaking of minds, ours are about to be blown as the last days until finals and then Christmas pass by. So give yourselfa study break Sunday afternoon to watch the Notre Dame women's basketball team take on Northern Illinois at 2 p.m. at the ACC. 
North Star Conference Player of the Week Trena Keys along with plenty of help from her teammates will be trying to help the Irish bounce back from a tough loss to Tennessee Monday night. Don't miss any ofthe excitement this Sunday. 
... 


