·-~-----­
HPC-page3 

VOL XIX, NO. 128 till" independnH .... tudent Ill"\\ .,paper "lT\ ing notn dame and ...aint ma~ ·., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 1985 

Tommy Shaw has 'positive attitude' for MTV concert 
Shaw could take Bryan Adams and MARK WORSCHEH any day in a live performance." 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE on 
Approximately 600 tickets for 
Shaw's concert were distributed last 
T.]. Miles didn't expect much last night, and tickets will be available 
week when he went to meet Tommy from 7 to 9 p.m. today and tomor­
Shaw at the singer's Niles, Mich., row in the Chautauqua Ballroon at 
farm. But the meeting sure changed Notre Dame and the Haggar College 
the Dillon freshman's tune. 
Senior StaffReporters 
Center at Saint Mary's. Tickets are "He's straight-forward rock 'n' roll free. with not a lot of technopop," said 
Miles accompanied Rock Alike Miles, who finished third in Notre winner Kevin Herbert and campaign Dame's Rock Alike contest as Bryan 
co-chairmen Aline Gioffre and Vince Adams. Shaw's music is "not Bruce 
Willis to meet Shaw before the band 
Springsteen and it's not Bryan left to begin a two-week Southern 
Adams. It's unique, but it's not tour. 
dressed-up." 
"Tommy Shaw is an excellent 
Shaw, who will give a free concert stage performer, and he promises to 
April 27 in the ACC, returned to be entertaining," said Herbert, who 
Niles to help publicize Notre Dame's will impersonate Bruce Springsteen 
victory in the "Millions Against MS" in the Rock Alike competition 
inter-collegiate campaign. 
before the concert. Herbert is 
When Miles first learned that MTV hoping for a rousing reception for 
selected the former Styx guitarist, he Shaw, one of the judges of the Rock 
said he was disappointed, "like Alike contest, because he stands to 
everyone else." win an summer internship with 
"But after meeting him and his MTV. 
Members of the Cavanaugh Country Club, Bill Dame and Saint Mary's students were gutlty of 

band, they've all got the biggest posi­Jerry Kramer, Shaw's agent, prom-
Lytle, john Coyle, john Keegan, Don Montanaro, taking in a few rays during the past few days of 

tive attitude," Miles said last night. 
jeny Garcia, Sam Sangster, and Mike Kelley relax nice weather. The same is expected through tbe 

"The bassist told me that Tommy 
see SHAW, page 4 in their "Care Bear" pool yesterday. Many Notre weekend. 
Little change off-campus noticed by police, bar owners 
Editor's Note: One year ago dents and administrators when the Another fear last year was that if Payne's mother, who is employed neighbors complain. When we get a today, the University's new alcohol alcohol policy came out was that students were forced off-campus, an at the bar, said "We've always had complaint, we'll come and quiet the policy was announced. This is part more students would go off-campus increase in assaults, hit and runs, someone checking ID's at the door, party. And it is illegal to drink in the 
one ofa series ofarticles examining to party. This fear has been proven drunken driving, and underage and underage drinking has never state of Indiana if you are under 21, the policy and its effect on Notre wrong, say local bar owners. drinking arrests would result. Again been a big problem." whether in your own house or not." Dame student life. "There has not been much of a the facts refute this. 
By KEVIN YOUNG change Chris Houck, manager of The increased raids on bars and Both the police and the bar
"There has been no increase in al­

News Staff parties over the past couple years managers agree that there has been
cohol related accidents," said Lt. 
have prompted some to wonder if an increase in responsible drinking
Larry Blume of the South Bend Traf­

Last year, the party ended. Some Alcohol: the alcohol policy is to blame. Wil­this year. "People are getting less ob­
fic Bureau. "In fact, there has been a

said it would just move off-campus. liams said, "We regularly patrol the viously drunk," said Houck. 
One year decrease in drunken driving arrests 
' ~ 
In fact, according to Lt. Norval Wil­bars. The alcohol policy at Notre
this year." Blume attributes this to

liams of the South Bend Police De­later Dame has nothing to do with it." Williams feels "the alcohol policy 
the Alcohol Action Project the state

panment, the off-campus scene has has something to do with the re­
adopted in 1983.

changed little since the alcohol 11\il\lllmlilulni... ' "The new drunk driving laws and sponsible drinking we're seeing. 
policy was announced one year ago Bar owners disagree that un­general alcohol awareness have However, the stricter drunken 
today. Bridget's. The employees ofNickie's derage drinking has been a problem brought on the raids. But there driving laws and the new alcohol 
"There has been no noticed in­agreed. this year. aren't any more raids this year than programs have opened everyone's 
crease in off-campus activity this "Actually, there's been a slight "No more underage people have last year," said Houck. eyes. All of society is becoming 
year," stated Williams." decrease of people coming here," tried to get in this year than in the Raiding private parties occurs more aware and responsible about 
One of the greatest fears of stu-said Kenny Payne, owner ofNickie's. past," said Houck. when, according to Williams,"the drinking." 

SMC committee hopes 

CLC has diverse membership 
Editor's Note: The following is similar to the present day Student by the administration, two faculty 

for president by 1986 

part three ofa three-part series ex­Senate. The council initiated ideas members John T. Goldrick, associ­
amining thefunctions ofdifferent and proposals, then voted on the ate vice president for residence By HELEN LUCAITIS Kennedy, represents the College ad­branches of student government. proposals to decide ifthey were to life, and Father David Tyson, vice News Staff ministration and Thomas Nessinger Today's installment focuses on take effect. president for student affairs. The is a representative of the Parents
the Campus Life Council. With the advent of the Student council is headed by the Student 
Saint Mary's Presidential Search Council.

Senate, the CLC has lost some ofits Body President. 
Committee has begun its hunt and

ByJOHN GORLA 
The Committee, appointed by the
According to Rob Bertino, last 
expects to end it byJanuary 1986. 
Executive Governing Board, willStaffReporter year's student body president, the The 11-member group, with Dr.

By the people, 
recommend candidates for the posi­
CLC had only three meetings this 
John Duggan, current president ser­The Campus Life Council, com­tion to the College's Board of

year. TI1e chairman of the council 
ving as consultant, met for the firstmonly called the CLC, is the part of for the people? calls meetings at his discretion, Regents. The Regents will then maketime last week to begin the selectionstudent government responsible recommendations to the Sisters ofPart three usually used to vote on any process, determining the exactfor passing or rejecting proposals proposals initiated by the Student the Holy Cross, who will appoint theprocedures for the search and speci­that are initiated in the Student power: Now, the senate uutlates Senate. 

new president.
fications of candidates.

Senate. proposals, which are sent to the Tyson is the only non-voting In the past, the CLC had a differ­CLC for approval. member of the council, but he 
Appointed members include: The Committee will be placing Anne Marie Kollman, Student Gov­advertisements in the Chronicle ofent form that was quite powerful The council members include does have veto power. Bertino said ernment President-elect; Professors Higher Education and major news­for a single branch of the student people from every aspect of Notre that this is "a paradox to what the Keith Egan and Dorothy Feigl; and papers as well as recruiting individ­

government, but has since evolved Dame. The council consists offive council intends to be," adding Board of Regents members Jerry uals they would like to see apply for 
into a body having one specific student senators. one ofthree HPC "this is a weak point in the council Hammes, Mary Lou Leighton, Sister the position.
goal to accomplish. representatives chosen by the and should be eliminated." 
Judith Beattie, Robert Welsh, Jr., An acting president will serve asAbout five years ago the CLC HPC, the director of the student Sister Kathryn Callahan and Melissawas essentially a governing body activities board, six rectors chosen see CLC, page 5 Underman Noyes. Sister Francesca see PRESIDENT, page 3 




----~----~---~ --~ 
The Observer Wednesday, April 17, 1985-page 2 





In Brief 
Arkansas students are organizing to 
oppose student fee funding ofa Gay and Lesbian Student Association, after the associated student government president vetoed a bill that would have prohibited such funding. The United Students Associa­tion believes no student organization has the right to promote homosexuality because it is against state law. It also opposes the involvement of civil liberties groups in the campus issue. -The Observer 
A blood drive,sponsored by Saint Mary's Nurses Associ­ation, received 120 blood donations from students last week. Cara Hageman served as chairman of the drive, held last Thursday and Friday at the College's Health Service. Other organizations volun­teering time and/or blood, were the Christian Life Commission Bi­ology Club, student government, and the junior and senior d~ses. Students still wishing to donate blood may call the South Bend Medi­cal Foundation Laboratories, Inc., at 234-4176, for an appointment.­
The Observer 
Of Interest 
Gerry Faustwill be selling tickets to this weekend's Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Charity Ball in C and D lines of the North Dining Hall today during the lunch hour. The dance will be held Saturday night in Stepan Center from 9 to 2. Tickets are $6, S 10 for couples. ­
The Obsen•er 
The Art ofWriting will be the topic of this year's Red Smith lecture to he given by james Kilpatrick in the Memorial U­brary Auditorium Wednesday, Aprill7, at 8 pm. The lecture, open to all, is entitled "The Art of the Craft" and will be followed by a ques­tion and answer session. Kilpatrick is the author of "The Writer's Art" and also writes the column, "A Conservative View" which is syndicated nationally in 525 newspapers, making him America's most widely syndicated columnist. On Thursday, he will be speaking to classes in Notre Dame's Department of American Studies. Kil­patrick's speech is sponsored by Coco-Cola USA. The lecture series is in honor of Red Smith, one of America's best and most respected sports writers and a 1927 graduate ofNotre Dame. -The Observer 
Chris Tayback will discuss his former position as chair­man ofthe Hall President's Council on WVFI AM64 tonight from 9 to 
9:30. Tayback is the guest on the radio station's weekly talk show,"Campus Perspectives," hosted this week byjohn Deckers and Lorrie Cluzyk. Listeners with questions or comments should call in at 239-6400. -The Observer 
The South African Networkof Notre Dame is 
sponsoring a panel discussion on the effects ofU.S. investment in the Republic of South Africa tonight at 8 in the Center for Social Con­cerns. Notre Dame's South African policy will also be discussed. Peter Walshe, director of African studies, and Motumbo Mpanya, Kellog Fellow, will be members of the panel. The discussion is open to the public.-The Observer 

Weather 
This is great, isn't it? Some morning cloudiness, but otherwise mostly sunny today. High in the upper 60s. Wind becoming south 
I 'I'
~:l:··--·
:K1.
1r#: I
10-15 mph. Clear and warmer tonight. Low in 
A:A I 
the upper 40s to lower 50s. Sunny, breezy and 
warmer tomorrow. High in the upper 70s. -AP 
' I 
L j 




Hulk-o-mania infests TV sets across nation 
Popular culture can get pretty strange sometimes. Take the case of Hulk Hogan. He's this huge blond­
Dan 
haired professional wrestler who has suddenly become a full-fledged American hero. But the question many 
McCullough
Americans are asking themselves is, "Who is Hulk Hogan and why does he have a mania named after him?" News Editor Hulk, as he is affectionately called by his friends and 
fans, leads the latest national craze for pro wrestling. He is the undisputed champ of the east coast/Madison the early part of this century, huckster promoters used Square Garden wrestling scene and his ugly mug is to tour the countryside, challenging any takers to a 

gradually seeping into the American consciousness -­
match with a wrestling "champ" for some outrageous Hulk-o-mania is becoming a household word. 
amount of prize money that, not suprisingly, hardly 
You may remember Hogan as Rocky Balboa's pre-Mr. anybody ever won. T opponent in the film "Rocky III." This gigantic The champ would usually wrestle around for a while specimen ofan Aryan gone horribly wrong tossed actor with any ambitious filrmboys who were stupid enough 
Sylvester Stallone around the ring a few times before to sign up before leading them to a specified corner of 
launching him into the audience. The irrepressible the canvas ring. Rocky, however, jumped back in and worked over the An iron plate was usually placed beneath the canvas giant --and they say Holly­
in a certain spot. The ringer wood is unrealistic. 
would throw the challenger Hogan now graces the 
down on the plate headfirst, television sets in homes all 
ending the fight. After no across America in an ad for a 
one was able to beat the tennis shoe. He's the one 
"chan1p," the wrestler and the promoter would
that smashes his wrestling skeedaddle to the next town
opponent in the face with a ofsuckers.
tennis racquet. During the 1950s, the
But that's not all, sports birth of the first national pro
fans. It was recently an­nounced that Hogan will be 
wrestling fad came with the featured next fall on a Satur­
growing popularity oftelevi­day morning cartoon pro­
sion. "Gorgeous George," gram. Whatever happened 
who would enter the ring adorned in perfectly
to johnny Quest? Hogan recently got a lot of 
coiffured golden locks, was publicity by teaming up 
almost as famous then as his with Mr. Tin a match against 
latter-day counterpart 
"Rowdy" Roddy Piper and tl-f? /fiAt( IJfm/IILT Hogan. Paul "Mr. Wonderful" All through the 1960s and 
Orndorff. It was broadcast via satellite to the Stepan 70s, pro wrestling had a medium-sized, but dedicated Center and all the profits from the Notre Dame broad­following. Each city had its own wrestling heroes who cast went toward the MS Shaw Show. 
would square off against each other once or twice a 
The event, called "Wrestlemania," was the avante­month in some run-down auditorium. In Chicago, Dick garde social event of the season in New York. the Bruiser was the undisputed champ. Muhammed Ali was the referee. Billy Martin was the 
It was almost like a parody of itself. The Chicago announcer. I.iberace was the timekeeper. 
matches were sponsored on televisio!l by Ben's Usrd Liberace? 
Auto Sales and Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame. It's The event was broadcast nationally, with tickets still there on South Western Avenue. At Ben's they going for between S lO and S 1 5. 
"Ben' over backwards to make you a better deal," their motto says. It is right next door to the House of Plates 
In Pittsburgh, when the dosed circuit television mal­(the kind you eat off of). functioned in the Pittsburgh Civic Arena, the crowd And now pro wrestling has hit the big time. Hulk began imitating their favorite wrestlers and started Hogan has hit the big time. Mr. T is jumping on the throwing around the folding chairs and anything else bandwagon. It is being broadcast live in theaters across they could get their hands on. WTAE-TV, the local ABC the country--a prestige that was formerly reserved for affiliate, quickly stepped in and broadcast the match heavyweight championships and Eve! Kneivel jumps. live to the whole city to avert a riot. Perhaps Mr. T epitomized the growing national atti­
Professional wrestling has come a long way since its tude toward professional wrestling, "It's not for no origins in the innocent American heartlands. Back in wimps, wrasslin'." 
Looking for Summer Excitement? Join the group going to

Please 
Yellowstone Ranch School 

I 
support the 
in Emigrant, Montana 
AMERICAN 
Exciting experience in horse handling, mountain 
survival, float trips, Yellowstone outings and many more outdoor activities. A REAL WESTERN ADVENTURE! 
WCANCER 

'SOCIETY$ 
For info write: or phone:
Yellowstone Ranch School Box 663 (406) 848-7570 Emigrant, Montana 59027 
---r 
I



Attention Sophomores I 
I
I 
I I 
Place your ring order before you leave ; for SUMMER VACATION. This will j
I 
I 

I I assure you of having it when you 
1 
I I return to school in the fall. 1 I I I HOURS: 1:00 P.M. to 4:30P.M. I • Monday-Friday • 
• IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR 
I 
_ HAMMES NOTRE.DAME BOOKSTORE 
-
-------------------~
-
The Observer 
lbc: Obec:~r (liSPS ~99 2·4000) Is publlshc:d Monday lhroug)l Friday and on home: football Saturdays. c:xcepl during c:xam and vacation periods. lbc: Obec:nrc:r Is published by the: sludc:niS of !he: Unlvc:niry of Noire Damc: and Saini Mary's CoUegc:. Subocrlplfons may be: purchasoed for 130 per yc:ar ( UO per ..,. mc:slc:r) by wrilinglbc: Obec:~r. P.O. Box Q. Noire Damc:. Indiana 46~~6. 
Tbc: Obec:nc:r is a membc:r of lbc: AMoc181rd Praa. All reproduction rig/liS arc: rr>ervc:d. 

Today"s issue was produced hy: 
Design t:ditor .............................•.. Andy Saal Design Assistant ..................... Alex Peltzer Layout Staff ...................... Tracy Schindele Typesetters ................................. Vic Guarino Ted Dore News l!ditor ....................... Boh Musselman Copy Edilor................................. John Hines Sports Copy Edttor...... Eric Scheuermann Viewpoint Copy Edttor............ Mary Ellen Viewpoint Layout .................Carol Brown Features Copy Edttor................... Ed Nolan Features layout ..........................Jane Anne ND Day Editor .............. Cindy Rauckhorsl SMC Day Edttor............................. Ed Nolan Ad Design .................................. Fred Nelson Catherine Ramsden Photographer ............................. Mary Flynn 
The Observer Wednesday, April17, 1985-page 3 

lb~ Ob~crvcr/Mary Flynn
Boat people 
Two students enjoy the recent nice weather by testing the waters on St. joseph's Lakeyesterday. Nice weather will continue through­out the weekend, according to the latest extendedforecast. 





FCE forms handed out at HPC 
By KEITH HARRISONJR. 
News Editor 
Once again, it's time for students to grade their teachers. 
Faculty/Course Evaluations, forms which give students a chance to critique their courses and teach­ers, were released at the Hall Presi­dents' Council meeting last night. Sophomore Mark Rolincik, who is running the program, asked the presidents to distribute the forms to hall residents sometime today. 
"Last year, one of our problems was distributing these through campus mail," Rolincik said. "This year I think we have a better pro· gram." 
Rolincik wants students to com­plete the FCEs and return them to their hall presidents within I 0 days. 
"Last year we got a 30 percent response, which was pretty good for our first year," he said. "This year 
we're shooting for a 40 to 50 per­cent return." The FCEs are similar in form to the Teacher/Course Evaluations that 
students  complete  in  class.  The  
FCEs, however,  are  completed on  
the  student's  own  time  and  the  

results ofthe program are published. 
"We'll be publishing the booklet in the fall, so students will be able to use them in selecting their courses for next spring," Rolincik said. 
The FCEs are distributed only once a year, and Rolincik said there are several reasons for this. 
"Time plays a big part in it. All the FCEs are hand-tabulated," he said. "But I think once a year is enough. A lot of courses are repeated both semesters, and the FCE may not be appreciated as much by the students if it appeared every semester." 
In other news, Peter Walshe, director of African Studies, and Motumbo Mpanya, Kellogg Fellow, will be part of a panel on U.S. and Notre Dame investments in South Africa tonight, said Pat Baccanari of the Notre Dame South African Net· work. 
University Investment Officer Fa­ther Richard Zang was also invited, but refuses to appear in public with Walshe, according to Baccanari. 
The HPC also selected their representatives to the Student Sen­ate last night. Joining HPC Chairman Kevin Howard on the senate will be Bill Boyle, Keenan president; Judith Windhorst, Badin president; and Steve Keren, Carroll's president. 
"Bill (Healy, student body presi· dent) wanted the new senate to decide on any senate reconstruc­tions," Howard said. "The senate is an 18-member body and there are four ofthem from HPC, so we'll have a pretty good say in any new plans for the senate." 


Observer promotions announced 
lbe news department of The Observer has announced the follliw­ing promotions effective immedi· ately. 
John Heasly, a senior American Studies major from Arlington, Va., has been named an assistant news editor. Heasly had been a copy editor with the newspaper since last January, and is also a Viewpoint copy editor. 
Bob Musselman, a junior Ameri­can .Studies/ ALPA major from Ket­tering, Ohio, has been promoted to an assistant news editor. Musselman had been a staff reporter. 
Mary Heilmann, a sophomore from Pittsburgh, Pa, has also been named an assistant news editor. Heilmann, an English major, was most recently a copy editor for the newspaper. 
Also named as an assistant news editor is Jane Kravcik. Kravcik, a government major, from Western Springs, Ill., has been an Observer copy editor and staff reporter. 
Scott Bearby is another assistant news editor. Bearby, from Ham­mond, Ind., is a student in the Fresh­man Year of Studies. He has most recently been a staff reporter. 
Miriam Hill, a Notre Dame sopho­
more majoring in economics, was 
promoted to news copy editor. She 
is from Cleveland, Ohio and has 
worked at The Observer since 
spring 1984. She has worked as a day 
editor and a senior staffreporter. 
John Hines, a junior American 
studies/Alpa major, was promoted to news copy editor. He is from Portland, Ore., and has worked at The Observer since fall 1983, most recently as a staff reporter. 
Margie Kersten, a sophomore majoring in communications, was promoted to news copy editor. She is from Fort Dodge, Iowa and worked as a photographer and on the news staff last semester. She is the assistant Saint Mary's editor for the 1985-86 school year. 
Mark Pankowski, a freshman from Tallahassee, Fla., was promoted to news copy editor. He has worked on the news staffand as a sports writer. He plans to major in American studies. 
Cindy Rauckhorst, a sophomore majoring in economics, was promoted to news copy editor. She is from Naperville, Ill., and has worked at The Observer since last semester. She most recently has worked as a staff reporter and a day editor. 
The news department has also promoted reporters to the position of senior staff reporter. Promoted were: Chris Bednarski, a freshman from Marcellus, N.Y., Mark Dillon, a freshman from Bloomfield, N.J., Ann Kaltenbach, a sophomore govern­ment major from Quincy, Ill., Maura Mandyck, a sophomore English major from Atlanta, Ga., Chris Skorcz, a freshman from Cinncinati, Ohio, Kimberly Trenner, a freshman from Westchester, Pa.,John Walters, a freshman from Mesa, Ariz., and Beth Whelpley, a freshman from Chester, N.J. 

F ~ 

McDONALD'S Campus Airlift 
We are expanding our delivery test for the remainder ofthe school year. 
Sundaythru Thursday 

1.65 1.70 1.60 2.30 4.40 1.25 .90 .80 1.00 .80 .60 1.00 1.00 
We will take orders from all ND halls from 5pm to lOpm 

277-1688 
Our driver will call within 20 minutes to confirm the order and give you the time for delivery. 
We should have the order to you within 
15-20 minutes ofthe confirmation call. 
New deliveries start Monday, Aprii 15th 
277-1688 
The following have been promoted to the position of staff reporter: Marc Antonetti, from Meriden, Conn., Amy Baker, from lighthouse Point, Fla., Lisa Boykin, from Sumter, S.C., Kathy Ceperich, from Mishawaka, Ind., Beth Cornwell, from Brookfield, Wis., Matthew Dolan, from Mount Prospect, Ill., John Flory, from South Bend, Dane Gal den, from Columbus, Ohio., Carolyn Gillespie, from Glen Ellyn, Ill., Mary Fran Gisch, from Westchester, Ill. 
Also, Gerard Goldner, from Penllyn, Pa., Eileen Hoffman, from Potmomac, Md., Gretchen Holland, from Indianapolis, Ind., Mary Huf· frnan, from Creve Coeur, Mo., Lucy Kaufman, from Olmsted Falls, Ohio, Mike Usa, from Cherry Hill, N.J., Michelle Marchand, from Maplewood, Minn., Ellyn Mastako, from Akron, Ohio, Frank Mastro, from Princeton Junction, N.J., Heat­her Miller, from Culver, Ind., Ray Mulera, from Upper Marlboro, Md., Jeff Niekelski, from Downers Grove, Ill., Shannon Oakes, from Chester­field, Miss. 
Also, Alex Peltzer, from Visalia, Calif., Diane Presti, from Ballwin, Miss., Jackie Rizner, from Palatine, Ill., Martin Rodgers, from Blue Bell, Pa., Diane Schroeder, from Fox River Grove, Ill., Lynne Strand, from Con­stantine, Mich., Andre Theisen, from St. Joseph, Minn., Chris Walton, from Southfield, Mich., Mark Winters, from Chicago, Ill., and Kevin Young, from North Brunswick, N.J. 




President 
continuedfrom page 1 
president until a permanent one is chosen. 
"The person we want for the job is making his decision and will be let· ting us know in a few days," said Duggan. "It will probably be Dr. Hickey." 
Hickey, the College's vice presi­dent, and dean of faculty took the role of acting president in the months before Duggan was chosen. 
Kollman, who represents the stu· dent body, feels priviledged that stu­dents are having input in this decision. "We are not trying to find a Duggan clone but a candidate who is a good administrator and perceptive of people. Also, I think that a can· didate's dedication to a liberal arts education for women is equally im· portant in choosing our next presi­dent," she said. 
The bulk ofthe work will be done over the summer, according to Feigl. "After a large number of desired ap­plications are returned to the Com· mittee we will begin reviewing them and narrowing down the choices," she said. 
The committee will hold its next meeting May 4. 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Former CIA Director Stansfield Turner urged Congress on yesterday to reject President Reagan's proposal to release J 14 million in aid to the "Contra.o;" in Nicaragua, calling it "a dead-end policy" in Central America. 
"The Nicaraguan communists are not an immediate threat to the United States and its interests in Central America," Turner said. 
Turner, who headed the agency under former President Carter, tes­tified before a House Foreign Affairs subcommittee which also heard Ray Cline, a former deputy director of 

Shaw 
continuedfrom page I 
ises not to let Notre Dame -and Her­bert-down. 
"Tommy really shines on stage. We've put together a pretty big show. There will be a sophisticated light show, and we're bringing in five cameras from Los Angeles. Hopefully, we'll document a terrific show. We're a very video-aware band," said Kramer yesterday. 
Kramer, who directed and produced the last two David Lee Roth videos as well as a video from the movie "Amadeus," is the execu­tive producer for the special to be aired on MTV during Memorial Day weekend. 
"The show is a much bigger pro­duction than a normal show would be," said Steve Wosahla, a spokes­man for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society in New York. "It's just exciting to have someone like him involved in the fight against MS." 
Wosahla said Shaw led a fundrais­ing effort for a youth fairgrounds in Berrien Springs, Mich., and helped 
Boeing jet 
loses engine 

over Arizona 
Allsociated Press 
SAN DIEGO, Calif. -American Airlines Boeing 727 jet with 90 ~ople aboard landed safely here yesterday after one of its three engines fell off during a flight from Dallas. 
The pilot and crew of Flight 199 knew one of the engines had failed but they were unaware it had fallen off the plane, said American Airlines spokesman Joe Stroop. 
"We don't know why this hap­pened, but we sure intend to find out," Stroop said. "We're conduct­ing a full investigation." 
The non-stop flight from Dallas­Fort Worth International Airport to San Diego Undbergh Field landed safely at about noon. The jet was flying under Alert 1 status, meaning it was having minor difficulty, said Buck Jones, assistant manager at Undbt:rgh. 

"About 45 minutes out (of Dal­las), the captain radioed ground r control that he had felt a shudder 
r 
and that indicators in the cockpit showed that one of the engines had seized," or stopped, Stroop said from the airline's headquarters in Grapevine, Texas. 
The engine apparently dislodged in western Arizona, somewhere near Tucson, Stroop said. He didn't know the weight of the engine but said it was "pretty big." 
The engine was not discovered to be missing until the crew inspected the plane after it landed, he said. 
The Observer 



Former CIA chief assails Reagan support of Nicaraguan 'Contras' 
the CIA who firmly supports Reagan's policy. 
"If the United States turns its back on this group (the Contras) there will be moves to accommodate with communist regimes throughout the world and in Nicaragua," Cline said. 
Meanwhile, Reagan, speaking to a group of religious leaders at the White House, kept up his criticism of the leftist Nicaraguan govern­ment, again accusing it of religious persecution. The president said he had also received a message from the pope "urging us to continue our efforts in Central America." 
Republican and Democratic sources in the House predicted that the Contra aid plan would lose by 30 
establish a writing program there for handicapped children. 
However, student organizers for the MS campaign at Marquette and Michigan Universities said they were disappointed and upset that Tommy Shaw was selected. 
"That's ridiculous," said Rob Markus, a member of Michigan's "M Against MS" steering committee. 

"People were really upset when they found out." 
Charlene Kulick, publicity direc­tor for the Marquette campaign, agreed. "We were promised it votes, despite an intensifying lobby­ing campaign by Reagan and his allies. A close vote in the Republican-led Senate was predicted. 
Under the proposal to be voted on next week, the $14 million would go as humanitarian assistance to the Contras seeking overthrow of the Sandinista government in Managua. 
But if negotiations between the Sandinistas and the Contras failed, the money would then be spent for weapons for the rightist rebels sup­ported by the president. 
Reagan met for an hour yesterday with House Minority Leader Robert Michel, R-IlL, and Assistant Senate Majority Leader Alan Simpson. 
would be the hottest act available. 
Overall, people were disappointed." 
Adding insult to injury, Kulick said, was losing to Notre Dame. 
"Notre Dame is our most hated enemy," she said. "It's something that's inherited. Ifwe wanted to pick whom we wanted to lose to it wouldn't be Notre Dame." 
In the April 2 edition ofThe Mar­quette Tribune, MS chairwoman Robyn Sosnowski was quoted as saying, "I'm a little disappointed be­cause we can swallow losing to anyone but Notre Dame.... We're proud except for the fact that we wanted to blow the pants off Notre Dame." 
Markus said Notre Dame had an inherent advantage because more events occur in Ann Arbor than in South Bend, making it harder for the Michigan campaign to get attention. "It didn't catch on like it did a: Notre Dame because there's so much more going on," Markus said. 
But Gioffre, Notre Dame's co­chairperson, said Notre Dame was at an inherent disadvantage because al­cohol was not allowed at most MS activities. "Their campaign revolved around alcohol," she said. "No one thought we could do it because we are a dry campus." 
Summer Special Rates 



STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683-1959 
•¥ERY 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX 2 Y2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 

Wednesday, April 17, 1985-page 4 

AP Phow

Cover blown 

jose Antonio Llopis and his wife, Ana Luisa, begin the clean-up of their apartment in Miami Monday after an explosion in the ne:r:t-door unit lifted the roofand blew their ceiling onto the floor. Investigators said the blast was probably caused by the ignition of ether being used to process cocaine paste into purepowder. Police said the explosion uncovered the third residential area cocaine lab found in thepast week. 
-Advertisement ­
IS April 1985 

My Dear Colleagues and Students, 
I would like to share with you a letter that I recently received from a Notre Dame Junior -Danny Harrison. I want to share this letter because It really concerns us all: 
Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. President Administration Building University or Notre Dame 
Dear Father Hesburgh: 

The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's response to the crisis In Ethiopia began as a small flickering Idea shared by a group or Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students. They had been thinking for some time about what they, as students, could do to help relieve the hunger and societal problems In different oppressed sections or our world. When the Immediate problem of Ethiopia became apparent, they began to think In terms or some sort or benefit-a variety show, or perhaps a social concerns festival. 
With this In mind, they approached friends for advice and assistance. With the help of Dave Porterfield, C.S.C. and concerned friends, we devised the concept of a charity ball --a joint campus family affair. As In any family crisis, the family bonds together In celebration of Its unique link, the ND/SMC response Is that of a unified effort to respond to the crisis of our brothers and sisters In Ethiopia. 
The date has been set for April 20, 1985, In Stepan Center, on the Notre Dame campus, from 9:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m., and the committees are geared and ready. The ND/SMC response promises to be unique. The entire Notre Dame/Saint Mary's family will be Involved-under­graduates, staff, faculty, Emerltl(ae), and Administration. Our response will be In the Christian tradition and set a precedent which will be followed hopefully In years to come. 
The Charity Ball 1985 promises to be an extravaganza In response­not a mere material extravaganza, but a responsive extravaganza of people, joined together In human concern. A formal Invitation to this event will follow. I ask your support as our campus leader who has established himself as a champion against Injustice and suffering everywhere. 

:zly, ~ D~~on.-~~ 
325 Grace Hall 
Campus 

I know many of you also received this letter. The famine In Ethiopia repre­sents an Immediate need. I believe that we are challenged to act, to rush assistance to our brothers and sisters II) Ethiopia. 
Our Holy Father, John Paul II, Catholic Bishops and Religious and Civil Leaders around the world have called good people everywhere to generously respond to the plight of the people of Ethiopia. 
I ask and encourage all of you to support the student sponspored Charity Ball. 
Our response to the crisis Is a small way we can bond together In the true 
spirit of Our Lady's University. 
Sincerely, ~ ~L~~~~ 




,..?$:_" ~--:&"' 
President 

~ [~---------------------------------------------------------------------­
-------~. ---------­
The Observer 

----------------------~~-~ 
Wednesday, April17, 1985-page 5 
Steelmaker blames union for bankruptcy 


Survivalist chased through Ozarks 
for David Tate, a suspect in the shooting death ofa Missouri State Trooper Monday afternoon. Story 
below. 
Associated Press 
BRANSON, Mo. -A trained sur­vivalist linked to a neo-Nazi group and wanted for the killing of a state trooper eluded teams oflaw officers seeking him in the rugged Ozark Mountains ofsouthwest Missouri on yesterday. 
The suspect, identified as David Tate, 22, has not been sighted since the fatal shooting Monday afternoon of Missouri Highway Patrol Trooper Jimmie Linegar, 31, and the wound­ing of fellow highway patrolman Al­len Hines, 35, at a roadblock. 

Authorities said Tuesday that Tate, who has been trained in sur­vival techniques, could hold out for a long time in the wooded, rugged terrain with its numerous caves. 
"A person could actually hide out there for weeks," said Highway Pa­trol Lt. Ralph Biele, who added that 
many homes in  the  area  actually  
were  cabins  spaced  up  to  three  
miles apart.  

Applications for 
Student Goverf'ment ASSISTANT TREASURER available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune Must presently be a Sophomore Accounting Major 
If you have any questions call Eric at 239-7417 Applications due 
MQnday, April 22,4:00 PM 



Theology at 

SaintMary's 
FaD 1985 
Notre Dame students may register for SMC Theology courses at Angela Athletic Facility: 
Seniors-to-be  4:00-5:00 Monday, Apri I 22  
Juniors-to-be  5:00-6:00 Monday, Apri I 22  
Sophomores­ 4:00-5:00 Wednesday, April24 

to-be 
RLST 338 RLST 360 RLST 420 RLST 453 
Note Special Electives 
Prayer and Poetry Christian Marriage Religious Education I Philosophical Theology Egan Donnelly Seeley Martin 

Meanwhile, teams ofstate, federal and local law officers, wearing com­bat gear and aided by tracking dogs and infrared sensing devices aboard aircraft, descended on a 150-square­mile search area. 
State troopers rode shotgun on local school buses, checked passing trains and conducted house-to­house searches. Residents locked doors of homes and businesses and more than a dozen roadblocks were set up in the area. Gov.John Ashcroft put the Missouri National Guard on standby to assist in the manhunt. 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH, Pa. -Wheeling­Pittsburgh Steel Corp., one ofthe na­tion's largest steelmakers, filed for protection under bankruptcy laws yesterday blaming union officials for failing to accept an agreement de­signed to help it out of its half­billion-dollar debt. 
But the United Steelworkers Union, bargaining for about 20,000 members in three states, said bank­ruptcy is preferable to the deal Wheeling-Pittsburgh negotiated with its 24 major creditors. 
Wheeling-Pittsburgh, which in 1983 was the nation's eighth-largest steelmaker, is the largest in the in­dustry in modern times to file for Chapter 11 protection. 
"The tragedy ... has happened. It didn't have to happen," corporation Vice PresidentJoseph Scalise Jr. 
Shortly after the company peti­tioned U.S. Bankruptcy Court for re­organization, Scalise said operations will continue at the company's nine steel plants, in West Virginia, Ohio and Pennsylvania, and that the com­pany "will continue to do business and survive." 
The pension and medical insur­ance plans, however, could be eliminated during the reorganiza­tion, Scalise said. 
Union officials said they were drafting a cost-reduction plan that would save the pension and insur­ance plans. 
Wheeling-Pittsburgh said fourth quarter losses, as yet unreported, could reach S40 million or more. 
Wheeling-Pittsburgh lost $54 mil­lion in 1983 and nearly 559 million 
in 1982. Its losses over three quar­ 
ters of 1984 were S9.5 million on  
revenue of 5798 million.  
The effort to return the company  
to profitability will begin with con­ 
tract renegotiations with the USW  
and the United Mine Workers,  
Scalise said. The UMW represents  
certain employees at the seven  
wholly owned subsidiaries affected  
by the Chapter 11 filing.  
The crux of the dispute was  
Wheeling-Pittsburgh's willingness  
to grant its 24 major creditors a lien  
against inventories and other cur­ 
rent assets in exchange for loan  
deferments and additional credit..,  
That deal left so little breathing  
room that should steel prices dip  
slightly or a modest economic reces­ 
sion take hold, the company "would  
have run out of money in 12  
months," said Paul Rusen, the USW's  
chiefnegotiator.  
"The banks would then come in  
and snap up the current assets, the  
insurance companies would take the  
mills and the only thing my mem­ 
bers would have had left would be  
the unemployment line."  
Such a scenario is likely because  
of continued pressure from imports  
and expectations that American  
automakers will demand price  
reductions over the next few years,  
Rusensaid.  
General Motors Corp., the na­ 
tion's leading carmaker, is the larg­ 
est single customer of  
Wheeling-Pittsburgh, a producer of  
flat-rolled steels, he said.  
Under the Chapter 11 filing,  
"we're in a protected position. The  
banks can't come in and liquidate  
jobs," Rusen said.  
CLC  
continuedfrom page 1  
The council has worked well  
over the years due to good atten­ 
dance and campus-wide represen­ 
tation, said Bertino.  
If he was given the chance to  
change the CLC, Bertino would try  
to have the council initiate  
proposals rather than receiving  
them only from the Student Senate.  
This he says, "would allow for  
more ideas to be brought to the  
council."  
Recent examples of CLC action  
include the approval ofthe Student  
Saver/ General Store and the ac­ 
tion required to gain use of the  
second floor of the South Dining  
Hall for study rooms.  
Police arrest  
150 students  
at Berkeley  
Assodated Press  
BERKELEY, Calif. -Helmeted  
police moved in at dawn yesterday  
and arrested about 150 chanting  
protesters who took part in a week­long demonstration against the Uni­ ,, 
versity of California's investments in  
South Africa. The arrests of the demonstrators, some wrapped in blankets and  j  
others carrying posters, recalled  ~  
scenes from the university's free  1  
speech movement and anti-Vietnam  
war protests ofthe 1960s.  
Early Tuesday, officers began the  
roundup of anti-apartheid  
protesters, many ofwhom had been  
sleeping for days on the steps of  
Sproul Hall, where the free speech  
movement led by activist Mario  


A1TEmtON ALL THOSE INTERESTED IN WORKING ON  
FreslalfiGn Orientation 1985  
There will be a mandatory meeting tonight April17 at 7:00p.m. Lafortune Uttle Theatre • HALL CHAIRMEN MUST ATIEND • THOSE STAYING OVER THE SUMMER ARE ESPECIALLY NEEDED • NO APPUCATION NECESSARY FOR COMMITIEE POSmON  

********************
~ ~ 
~ SeniorParty at t
* ~ 
~ ... ~Q t
* c:•S\\v il 
~ ~~~ ... t 
* ~ 
~ Thursday, Aprill8 t ~ 5-10 p.m. ~ 
* 
$3. 00 Allyou can drink ~ 

* 
BBQ ~


* ~ 
~ $5.50 Rib Tips t
* BBQ ~ 
Savio was born.

~ ~ 
A total of 158 people were ar­
For Information Call284-4534 
rested, after which demonstrators

* $4.00 Chicken t 
called for a boycott oftoday's classes by students and faculty.





t*******************" 

------~ ---~~---------------------·--~------­

~i~~~_()__l_._Jl__t________________~w-e-dn-esd~ay~,A•pr~il~17~,1~98~5~pa~ge~6 
ND Law Professor Rice's defense is indefensible 
As many at Notre Dame know, Law School Professor Charles E. Rice is participating in the defense of four youths who have been accused of bombing abortion clinics in Pen­sacola, Florida. Rice offered to make available to those interested copies of the briefsubmit-

Vernon Marchal 
afterwords 
ted by his defense team and copies of an arti­cle titled "The Bomber as Victim" which he wrote for The Wanderer, a Catholic newspa­per. I took advantage of his offer and have since read both documents. 
His "The Bomber as Victim" could be the most absurd treatment of the abortion issue I have ever read. I found it reflected an ir­responsible view of the role of government and law in the United States -a view which also shows up in the brief submitted by his defense team.' 
Rice's "The Bomber as Victim" article primarily asserts abortion is just like the Holocaust. Rice states, abortuaries "have no moral right to exist. They are murder fac­tories, just like Auschwitz." The very next sen­tence, however, states there are "moral limits" on what might be done to abolish them "... espcially, in light of the fact that peaceful and lawful remedies are at least theoretically available to us that were not available to the people of Nazi Germany." 

Rice's application ofthe abortion-holocaust analogy could be taken as somewhat schizo­phrenic. A clarification ofsome pertinent facts is in order. 
Nazi Germany was a totalitarian state in which the dictator conspired with the mili­tary and the secret police in order to transport millions of Jews to concentration camps where they were put to death. The United States is a democratic state in which the Su­preme Court, acting in its role as a branch of government, has decided pregnant women have the constitutional right to procure an abortion, if they so desire. 
With these facts clarified, it becomes clear that, in asserting abortion clinics are "just like Auschwitz," Rice has discovered proof that the Supreme Court has overthrown the gov­ernment and is in total control of the United States. Similarly, he must also have proof that the Supreme Court has, in a conspiratorial way, convinced millions of women to get themselves pregnant just so that they can transport their unborn children to abortuaries where hundreds of doctors, who are also in­volved in the conspiracy, can kill them. 
If Rice can present such proof, I strongly urge he do so. The abortion-holocaust analogy is so absurd I doubt any anyone could take it seriously without proof. If he cannot, then he ought to back off the analogy because he is obscuring the truth of an issue that urgently needs to be resolved. 
On the role of law and governme.nt in the United States, Rice states in his article, "the conclusion that abortuaries should not be dis­rupted" is not to be based on a "deference" to the law, but rather it should be based on a deference to one's own moral norms. Indeed, in his article, Rice does not mention the fact that an act which undermines an essentially moral government and system oflaws is an act which has grave moral consequences in and of itself. 
Rice's view of law and government is rein­forced throughout the article. He states, "To our shame, we have tolerated a regime which has made murder not oniy legal but socially acceptable." To apply President Reagan's fa­mous adage to Rice -"There he goes again" confusing totalitarian governments with dem­ocratic ones. In a democracy, people do not "tolerate" regimes, they are the regime. This being true, it is absurd to imply the United States government is some autonomous "regime" that we should not "tolerate." 
Rice asserts, "We are apathetic about the murder of our children. And we resort to legalisms to avoid facing the enormity ofwhat we are doing." He complains people who oppose abortion are not viewed as "respectable." He states, "Respectable Americans have accepted the principle that abortion, having been decreed by the Su­preme Court to be a preferred exercise of private "choice," must be treated as such until it is otherwise decreed according to the rules of the legal game. People who remind respec­table Americans that the "laws" sanctioning 
abortion  are  not  really  laws  at  all,  are  a  
nuisance.  
If Rice's moral  norms  cause  him  to feel  

obliged to summarily undermine the great moral value of this government and its system oflaws, that is his prerogative. But I would ask that he not base the defense of the four youths in Pensacola on this prerogative. After reading the brief his defense team, he seems to be in­tent on doing just that. Any competent prose­cutor in front of a competent jury will laugh such a defense out of court. They would have to, for what Rice's view would be calling for is anarchy, pure and simple. 
Vernon Marchal is a senior in the Program ofLiberal Studies and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


Pellegrino gave a misleading impression on ethics 
It was gratifying to note the relatively large turnout for the Dr. E. Pellegrino's presenta­tion on "Catholic Medical Ethics" last Thursday evening. Nearly, every department of the University was represented, and it was 

Fintan Steele 
guest column 
obvious that those present appreciated Pel­legrino's impressive manner of speaking as well as his ability to outline a sizeable amount of material from the exploding discipline of medical ethics. 
As a deeply committed Catholic and as as a person with more than a passing interest in biomedical and sexual ethics, I would like to offer a basic objection to Pellegrino's presentation. 
It should be obvious, even with a cursory reading of major articles, that there is no uni­form Catholic consensus on many specific is­sues in medical ethics. Unfortunately, Pellegrino gave the impression that there were certain immutable basics underlying any "Catholic Christian" ethics to which all Cat­holics· ascribe. Differing opinions on specific questions are due to faulty conclusions based 
._,oonesbury 


on the underlying assumptions. Is this, in fact, the case? 
One example stands out. It is true that un­derlying all ethical reasoning is an anthropol­ogy, an understanding of human nature. In theological ethics, grace and nature are both critical concerns. How one views the relation­ship of grace and nature will have inevitable consequences at all levels of ethical reason­ing, from universalized principals, to specific, concrete decisions. When questioned, Pel­legrino claimed that Pope John Paul II's no­tion of"integral humanism" informed his own theological anthropology, and thus his ethical reasoning. I assume he was referring to the more than 100 general audiences Pope John Paul II gave between September 1979 andJan­uary 1983 in which he developed his "theology of the body," or a theological an­thropology which has been labeled "integral humanism." 
It is not clear, however, that this "integral humanism" is an adequate, much less correct, understanding of what it means to be human. It is even less clear that Pellegrino's interpre­tation ofJohn Paul's II theological anthropol­ogy is correct. Considering the specific conclusions Pellegrino gave on certain issues, it seems his underlying anthrowlogy remains a rationalistic, static and physical understand­ing of nature and grace prevalent in pre-Vatican II moral theology (as well as much post-Vatican II magisterial teaching such as the 1975 "Declaration on Sexual Ethics"). It is interesting to note that John Paul's II ad­dresses largely manage to escape the old, ob­jective and impersonal categories in favor ofa turn to the subjective pole. The problem is that his position is ambiguous enough to be interpreted either as supporting Pellegrino's position or diametrical opposing it. 
Of course, one could resolve this dilemma by looking at John Paul II's specific teachings to see how he interprets his own anthropological teaching. And one would find the traditional understandings of nature and grace hidden beneath birth control, abortion, homosexuality and other teachings, which would seem to justify Pellegrino's claims. But rather than resolving the difficulty, it is in­stead compounded. One cannot help but sense an inconsistency between the specific teachings and the reflections given during the general audiences of the 1979-83. And that still does not answer the question of whether either one is an appropriate or adequate un­derstanding ofwhat it means to be human. 
I realize that there are a number ofthings at stake here: the role ofmagisterial teaching and the possibility of dissent, the clarity of a true and meaningful understanding of human na­ture and the supernatural -rather than relying 
Garry Trudeau 
• 0 • • ~.., .... •• 
/A/CU., IF YW lXJN'T
YOU GUYS ARE W KIPPII-6? r-rrroco=o THI51S RRTLAU­
vvt ~-{)EI?[)IIJ_£1 JU5T 



on the classical, abstract and static categories of the past, and finally the relationship of "Catholic Christian" ethics to "secular" ethics which is not simply a "better than" or "more than" relationship as Pellegrino seemed to in­dicate. 
Medical ethics and, by a short extension, sexual ethics are only two ofthe realms where such issues are at stake. Yet they are two im­portant ones, for they are a testing ground for the relevance of the Church in our age. A simple appeal to magisterial teaching for au­thority and basic principles is inadequate to the demands of the discipline. If future and present Catholic "helping professionals" are serious about their commitment to Cat­holicism and the created world, they must face the fact that there are no current uniform Catholic opinions on many specific questions because there is no current uniformity of opinion on the underlying issues. It is at this deeper level that the dialogue must be joined. The only other option is to face the world with simple appeals to Church authority and unsupportable pious platitudes, which seems to be the extent of what we heard at the lecture last Thursday. 
Father Fintan Steele is a graduate student ofbiology at Notre Dame. 

Quote of the day 

"History suggests capitalism is a neces­sary condition for po­litical freedom." 
-Milton Friedman 




Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5:W3 
Ed1tonn-Ch1el Sarah E Ham•lton Business Manager. Dav•d Stephen1tcr Manag~ng Ed1tor Amy Stephan Advert1s1ng Manager AnneCu111gan
The Observer •s the independent newpaper published by the students of the 
News Ed1tor Ke1th Hamson Jr Controller 8111 H•ghducheck
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
News Ed1tor Dan McCullough Systems Manager. Mark B Johnso~
reflect the polictes of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as 
Sa~nt Mary's Executive Ed1tor Theresa Guar~no ProduCtiOn Manager John A Menne! I
accurately and as ObJectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
Sports Editor Jeff Blumb 
of a maronty of the Edttorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column 
Accent Ed1tor Mary Healy present the vtews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor Joe Murphy communtty. and the free expresston of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Photography Editor . Peter C. Laches 1S encouraged Copy Ch1el. Frank L1po Founded November 3, 1966 







Accent 
Just 
how did we pull off this MS campaign? 
PIZZA, SPEAKERS, AND 

W
AIRWAVES Several community businessesfeatures staff writer were involved in the campus fundraiser. e're proua, except ror the too<lsales nights, :-. Y K WZZP-FM 104, "the new Zip· fact that we wanted to fundraisers, interhall tug-of-wars, 104", broadcast public service blow the pants off Notre Dame," laundry services, and rafiles. announcements for the NO Mil­said Robyn Sosnowski, Chairper­Alumni Hall $698.80 liot_Is Against Ms activities. son of the Marquette MS Badin Hall Sl38.00 
Karen McCloskey 
Electrovoice Systems, Pizza fundraiser, in a story published Breen-Phillips Hall 5374.00 

Hut, Premier Productions, andin The Marquette Tribune on Cavanaugh Hall S217.65 
United Beverage donated goodsApril 2. Dillon Hall $764.00 
and personnel for the Video­Sorry Robyn. Farley Hall s 80.00 
Kick-Off Party and Rock-AlikeFisher Hall $668.95 
The Big ND raised $22,676, Contest.
Flanner Hall $239.16 

nearly 5700 more than arch-rival Chris's Ice Cream and United
Grace Hall $127.00 

Marquette, even though Notre Skates ofAmerica sponsored
Holy Cross Hall S286.80 

Dame has a smaller student special events to raise funds for 
Howard Hall S 79.00 

body. the Millions Against MS cam­
Keenan Hall $199.95 

Not to gloat, but those paign.
Lewis Hall SI64.71 

Domers did a good job. Not only On campus services were
Lyons Hall S 36.00

did they bring in the most bucks provided free or at reduced cost
Pangborn Hall S 22.00 

per capita, but they also raised by the ACC, the Center for Con­
Pasquerilla East S350.21 

more money than any other tinuing Education, Educational 
Pasquerilla West 5322.40 

school in the competition. More Media, and University Food 
St.Edward's Hall 5211.25 

than the Big 10 giants ofOhio Services.
Sorin Hall SI54.00 

State, Michigan, and Wisconsin. 
Stanford Hall $340.81 

More than Notre Dame's football MILUONS
Walsh Hall 5280.00 

rivals MSU and Purdue. AGMNSTMSCO~T.nili
Zahm Hall S'i72.00 
The overwhelming success ofA job well-done deserves the 1985 ND Millions Against MSrecognition and the ND Millions BUCKS FROM THE CLUBS campaign is the result ofhoursAgainst MS fundraiser is no ex­The following clubs and or­ofplanning and hard work by 

The Observer /Phil Deeter
ception. ganizations held various 
Aline Gioffre and her committee. 
Many individuals and organi­fundraisers or made direct con­
"Madonna" competes in the preliminary round ofthe Rock-Alike contest 
zations both at Notre Dame and tributions to the fight against MS: Gioffre, a Special Projects 
held earlier this semester in the North Dining Hall. 
in the South Bend community Notre Dame Football Team, commissioner for the Notre contributed to the success ofthe Notre Dame Hall Presidents Dame Student Government, was campaign. Below is a list of Council, Notre Dame Student assisted by co-chairman Vince The concert will be preceded room between the hours of 7 and 9 several of those who donated Government, Notre Dame Stu­Willis. by the final round ofthe Rock­tonight and tomorow evening. Saint their time, money, and services dent Activities Board, Notre Celeste Alleva, Susan Aylward, Alike contest. Mary's students may claim their to the ND Millions Against MS Dame Freshman Advisory Coun­Laurie Bink, Cheryl Breenza, Notre Dame's own Bruce tickets in Haggar College Center campaign. cil, Sophomore Class, junior Nancy Domzalski, and Mark Springsteen, a.k.a. Stanford Hall during the same hours. 
Class, and Senior Class, The Facer were joined by Carrie resident Kevin Herbert, will A valid student I.D. must be pre· INTERHALL COMPETmON Observer, Saint Mary's Campus Hand, Bill Healy, julie Koneff, compete against Rock-Alike sented in order to claim the tickets. Fisher Hall topped the per Ministry, Saint Mary's Student joe Maugeri, jeff McGowan, and winners from eleven other One ticket will be awarded per I.D. 
capita contribution list among Government, and Tau Beta Pi Mike Viracola on the committee. schools for a grand prize MTV but students may present up to six dorms with a donation average (Engineering Honor Society). paid summer internship in New I.D.'s when claiming tickets. of S3. 58. The men of Fisher will MTV, TOMMY SHAW, AND York City. receive reserved seating at the SAINT MARY'S ROCK-ALIKE Tickets for the concert will be Tickets are absolutely required Tommy Shaw concert as a The Saint Mary's branch ofND The Tommy Shaw concert available to students free of for admission to the Rock-Alike reward for their work. Millions Against Ms was chaired will be produced and filmed by charge beginning today. finals and the Tommy Shaw con­
The following dorms contrib­by senior Celeste Alleva. The MTV and will take place in the cert. The An Tostal Committee is uted to the ND Millions Against Saint Mary's student body con­North Dome ofthe ACC on Sat­Notre Dame students may claim planning a fireworks display to MS campaign through special tributed S1601 to the campaign. urday evening, April27. their tickets in the LaFortune Ball· follow the concert. 


NO/SMC response to Ethiopian crisis 
least I tried..." We can feed two Catholic Charities to direct the effort, the motivation and encour­Ethiopians a day on one dollar, one relieffund. We're not planning on agement... He's been the heart of
Tom Dietz 
N
hundred pennies... That's intense! going through the Ethiopian gov­the organization.features staffwriter BC-I look at it as anybody who ernment. The Ethiopian govern­buys a ticket is helping in their own ment is a Soviet satellite and they'be Tickets for the Charity Ball to be otre Dame and Saint Mary's way. They don't have to be active to been pointing fingers at the U.S. held in the Stepan Center are now
fully a tradition. From what we students will have an opper­understand, there has never been a help. Ifsomebody says, "Well, I saying that we aren't doing our part. on sale: S6.00 for a single, and tunity Saturday to assist those starv­specific Charity Ball for ND/SMC. .. don't want to go" or "I can't go" or By going through Catholic Charities Sl 0.00 per couple. 
ing in Ethiopia by attending the first annual ND/SMC Charity Ball. All proceeds and benefits from the ball will be going to the Catholic Charities relief effort in Ethiopia. The following are excerpts from an interview with the group's Chair­man, Danny Harrison and central committee members Anne Marie Finch, Brendan Conroy, and Leslie Gordon. Ques: How did the group get started? DH-We wanted to fo something for the people ofAfrica, specifically the people of Ethiopia. Anne and I were talking about it over the Christmas break. l had originally thought about some type ofvariety show or film festival, but then someone at home suggested a Charity Ball. I talked to other people about it and everyone thought it was a real good idea. We started offas· a real small committee and it just grew from there. Ques: Is this a one time event or will the organiztion continue after the ball is over? DH-This is the first annual Charity Ball, this is the beginning ofhope· ND has had dances, SMC has had dances, but never a true formal gathering ofthis entire family of students, faculty, and administra· 
tion. Ques: How big is the group right now? AMF-The central committee con­sists ofabout 20 people, and each of those people has 20 to 30 people working for them. And each of 
those people have roommates and friends, so I would say about 500 people altogether. So it's quite a 
network. Ques: Did you put a lot of thought in to the timing ofthe event? Itseems like the timing is very good, with the news publicity given the Ethiopian crisis, with the release ofthe song "We are the World," and with the fact that it's right before finals and not quite the end of the year. DH-We also had to consider An Tostal and the jazz Festival... We had a lot to avoid. We know it's just a drop in the bucket. But 1 think the basic motivation behind it all is that this is something we can all say "At 
something like that... I'd tell them, "Well you can still buy a ticket" because the money will still be used. And that many more Et­hiopians will still have meals for that many more days. Ques: 'What will the entertain­ment be? DH-There will be two fantastic jazz bands... Uptown and New Edition. And the Alumni club has offered to pay for them... which has really helped us out. Ques: Some people have charged that all the recent ef­forts are no more than a band­aid on the problem ofworld hunger••. that they don't really treat the cause. Howwould you respond? AMF-When somebody's bleeding, you take them to the emergency ward and bandage the wound, and then you find out what happened. They're people starving, and you can't say that we're going to hold off and use all the money for R&D. You have to feed them first. Ques: How will the money be distributed? AMF-The money will go through 

we hope to alleviate any problems. We just want to help people. We're doing this as a family. They're our brothers and sisters, and we want to help them. Ques: What are the goals in terms ofmoney?What are you really striving for? AMF-Our first goal is awareness and our second goal is monetary compensation for the people to feed them. Hopefully, we'll raise anywhere from five to ten thousand dollars. Almost everything has been donated by different groups... the halls are donating money for our food, our bands have been donated, so there really is no big overhead. Ques: How has the response been in ticket sales? AMF-We just began selling tickets last week... So far, in my dorm at least, the response has been really good. But we're mounting our full scale attack this week Ques: What has been the response ofthe faculty and ad­ministration? DH-They've been tremendous! Especially, Fr. Dave Porterfield. The help he's given us, the time, the 
St. Ed's play set for run 
Special to The Observer 
S
t. Edward's Hall will produce 
"Moonchildren," a comic play 
in two acts, on April 18, 19 and 
20 at 8 p.m..ift Washington Hall. 
Admission for the annual St. Ed's 
event wil be Sl. 
The 15 member cast features 
12 men from St. Ed's and three 
women from various halls across 
campus. 

The play takes place in the 
mid 1960s in the apartment of 
six college students (four male, 
two female). It could be des­
cribed as a "Big Chill" type of 
show with all ofthe characters 
learning a lot about themselves 
and each other during the 
course ofthe performance. The 
producers ofthe play note that 
some people may find some 
language to be offensive. 


Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team1ost yesterday to Northwestern, 8-1, in Evanston, Ill. Details will be in The Observer tomorrow. -1be Obseroer 
The ND Rowing Club won the Notre Dame Invita­tional Regatta last weekend with 35 points. The Irish finished ahead of Ohio State, with 18 points, and Michigan and lincoln Park, each with nine points. Notre Dame finished first in six of the nine men's and women's varsity and novice events. The Irish men's lightweight 8 was the fastest boat of the day, covering 1800 meters in 4:15.37.­
The Obsen'er 
The ND Women's Track Club is looking for volunteers to help at its home meet on Saturday. Anyone who is interested should call Susan at 283-4286 or Anne at 283-2646. -1be Obseroer 
The AnTostal golf tournament will be held on Tuesday at I I a.m. at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Any pairs who are interested in playing in the tournament should call 283­2021 or 283-2013. An entrance fee of S I will be charged, and prizes will be awarded. -The Obseroer 
\X'ednesday, April 17, 1985 -page 8 
On the way to 128 • • • 
Booketore Tournement 
T-y'aGam.. Stepen 1 5:30-Hey Sh1-Happans v. Projaclile Earwax From Hall 6:15-Feeney's Waanias v. Revenge of the Fun Bunch Stepen2 
5:30 -Masciopinlo's Irish Army v. Phi Runna Gunna 6:15-Defense Plus Two v. Mr. Coffee & the Non-
Dairy Creamers Stapen3 

5:30 -International Man v. Big Black Mac A Hack 6:15-Kelly's Uncles v. Gumby Bloody Gumby 
Stepen4 5:30-The Shysters v. Alpha Pi Sigma 6:15-MBA All-Stars v. Wild, Wooly & Wicked 
Stepan 5 6:15-Chuck's Social Handcraps v. Cyril Scooter & the Salvations 
Stepan& 
6:15-Demented Doormats v. Off 
Stepen 7 

6:15-Bobby Knight & the Chair Throwers v. 4 Rink 
Rats & a Zamboni Driver 
Stepen8 

6:15-Poodle Goes to Russ1a v. Hoop Da Doop 
Bookatore9 

4:45-4 Halfway Rectifiers & Zenardioda v. Drunk Dnvers Against Mothers 
5:30 -We Needed $5 To Play But Couldn't. .. v. Two Dillon Sweetwater .. 6:15-Psycho End & the Damebuffers v. 4 Geeks & Pissy LiHie Ship Bookatore10 
4:00-The Supreme Courters v. Ron Reagan & 4 Other Guya Who Cen'l. . 
4:45-5 Ethiopians Hungry to Win v. SpaghaHi With Noodles 
5:30 -5 (luys Thai Wear Pantyhose. . v. Spudz Zaremba & the Couch Potatoes 6:15-4 Guys Who Still Wonder Why Barney ... v. Rand's Tuna Fishers 
Lyona11 4:00-The Ozone Rangers v. Maladroils 
4:45 -Six Shooters v. Doctor Ruth Waslheimer Eats Onion Rings 5:30-Arsenal Gunners v. Your Mother Does Deep Knee Bends .. 6:15-4 Dingfeberrias Lookmg For a ... v. AfterBirth 
on Rye Lyona12 
4:00 -The Old and Injured v. No More Next Years 4:45-Cubs Lose, Cubs Losev. Just Curious 5:30-A Gynecologist, A Proctologist. .. v. 4 People 
& a Short Fat Guy 6:15-The Pedophilic Day Care Center v. Stork & the 4 Eggs 
Women'a Bookatore 
Stapen 5 
4:00-Foul Trouble v. LAGNAF 
4:45-Grin & Bear v. USA tor 5 Girls Who. 
5:30 -Cab Drivers 2 v. Ann Petlifer & the Female Circumcisions 
Stepan& 4:00-QUIXOIIC Quint v. Nan & the Nerds 
4:45 -So You Think Thai We Play B-ball? v. Revenge of the Flamingo 
5:30-Take-offs From lhe Great While North v. Chicks Who Never. 
Yeeterdey'a R..ulta Stepen 1 The Uncoachablas over King Ortega & the Naugles Gang by 12 

Team Many Martoomes over Couch Potatoes by 12 Tortbusters over We Broke Parietal& With Guys by 
7 
MIXed Company over Mustard Seed Consp~racy by torten Stepen2 Weelhy's Warnors over We Can't Play Basketball but. .. by 19 Foley's Runners over Andy & the Hog Slabbers by 
3 
Vacuum Effect over Muddy Waters by 9 
4 Delinquents & Our Lawyer over 5 Hoos1ers 1n 
Letsure SuJis by B 
Stepen3 

Thai's Why They Call Us the Cruisers over Hyper 
Active by 13 
Haynes Hackers over Headly & Hog Heads by 6 
The First Source Bank & the Travelling All-Stars. 
over UTB by 17 Stepen4 This IS a Dictatorship over Summary Judgement by 9 Homeboys over 4 White Eng1neers Whose Feet Smell Worse Than. by 9 The HJI Men over Carnivorous Bultflies by 3 Stepen 5 Josephus & the ElhlOPI&n Sh1msham over Flenner 5by7 Stepen 6 905 Ra•ders over Grav11y IS a Myth, the Earth Sucks II by 12 Stepen7 Prepare to Meet Your Maker over We're Worsch­less6 
Stepen8 

Flank•n' Idiots over Goggs & 4 Other Celibates by 2 
Booketore9 

Private Club over Just Taint by 11 
see PAIRINGS, page 9 

The Obser1•er Notr..-Oame oftk..-. locatt:<l on tht: third floor of l.ah>rlunt· Stu<lt:nt Centrr. act·t'!lt~ t'lassilk<l a<l\'erlising from l) a m until ·J p m.. ,\lon<la) through Friday. The ObSI'rl'er Saint Man··, offitT. locat..-<1 on tht: third floor of Haggar Colkg..-Center. an-...pts t'lassitk<ls from I.L~O p m until 5 p.m.. Mon <lay·though Friday 1>..-a<.llin..-for m·xt-<la\ t·la"ilinb is -~ p.m. All t'lassifit:<ls must h..-prepaid. t'ithn in person or hy mail.< .harg..-is I tl tTnts p..-r fin· charac­ters a <Ia ·. 



Classifieds 
NOTICES  FOUND: CORAL AND GOLD COLORED BRACELET IN 3N HOWARD. CALL JIM AT 2522.  RESPONSIBLE PERSON NEEDED TO SUBLET ONE BEDROOM APARTMENT AT CASTLE POINT, FULLY FUR­ MAXELL TAPES XLII90mn $26/box of 12 PH 1596or 124 Dillon  HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THE YELLOW SUB 272-4453 MQ-TH 8-11 pm FA-SA 8pm-1 am  KAMIKAZE JAM It IS COMING UP SOONII ASK YOUR FAVORITE 2ND WING ST.EDER FOR THE APRIL 17TH  
NISHED, JUNE TO AUGUST. I PAY FOR  DETAILS. MORE TO FOLLOW!/  
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81197  LOST:GOLD  WOMEN'S  "ADVANCE"  PART OF THE RENT. CALL 239 7699  STEREO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT FOR  SMC Hall Efectlona  
WOROPROCESSING • 277-8045.  DIGITAL WATCH ON WED.APRIL 3 BE­TWEEN WALSH AND THE BUSINESS  (OFFICE) OR 277 0960 (HOME)  SALE (incl. TV's, record a call, walkmans, VCR's & camers)-ALL MAJOR BRANDS.  VOTE TODAY HCC  YOCIUS is Atrocious.  
GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U repair). Also delmquanllax property. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. GH-9834 lor Informa­tion.  BUILDING. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 2116. LOST: WEST'S BUSINESS LAW BOOK SECOND EDITION AT LUNCH 4/11 AT SOUTH DINING HALL FROM ON TOP  Apartment in Chicago space available May 3o-Sept.30 for tamale. Share with two 84 NO grads. Nice safe neighbor­hood. Call Celia 312-4 77-9592 a Mer 10pm or Maridaire 284-5484.  SPECIAL THIS MONTH: JVC 40 WATT INTEGRATED AMP W/ EQUILIZER­$169 , JVC DIGITAL TUNER W/ 16 PRESET STATIDNS-$89 OR BOTH FOR $229. CALL TOM 283-1527  I.D. needed to vole EMERGENCY!II  Fever Symptom 1: a burrnng d""'re to travel to England. Muy Buenos Tardes Clase Where 91e my students?  
Wordproceulfllland Typlflll 272-8827 Word ProceSSing and Typ1ng Resumes. Laners. Papers. Document• Call 234­ DtF THE CIGARETTE MACHINE. TD THE "SCUMBAG" WHO "BORROWED" MY BOOK, PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE SPOT WHERE YOU "SWINDLED" IT. IF YOU, THE LOSER, HAS ANY CLASS, YOU WILL  WANT~~  I \L.___TIC_K_ET_S___,  Need emergency drummer' Can you beat it? Call Jeff at2469. EMERGENCYIII Need emergency drummer! Can you beat it? Call Jeff at2469.  FURRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRKINS ONLY ONE MORE MONTH SHEILA WHALEN: THANKS FOR THAT VALUABLE TIP!  
2380 PRQ-TYPE Over 14 yrs. experience 1yp1ng student papers, resumes. and dis­ RETURN IT. MY IS ON THE INSIDE OF THE BOOK IF YOU, THE LOW LIFE CAN READ. I HAVE A TEST ON THE 4/18.  I NEED GRAD. TIXI Please call Lisa at3544.  DESPERATELY NEED GRADUATION TICkETS -PARENTS AND FAMILY ARE COMING TO SEE THEIR LAST KID GET A DIPLOMA. PLEASE HELP THIS  Wanllo participate in AnToetel'a Detlng Game? Applications available 1n the AnToslal office' Any questions call 239­ So Cal Club meeting 8 Weds Lil' Theatre­Election 86 officers-baggage truck-Be There  
sertations 277-5833 One U.S. dollar W1111eed two Elhiopans a day. YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE/ Anand the ND/SMC Chanty Ball Saturdsy, Apnl 20 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. Stepan Center Tickets on sale in dorms and at La Fortuna record store $6 s1ngla, $10 couple All welcome TYPING· CALL ANDREA-28~3880 Seren•ty at your fingertips'! New Afcholics Anonymous maatlng,Fndays at 7p.m ..3d ff.lnfirmery, Am. 316 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. COLLEGIATE TYPING, MY HOME. 277· 3085 ATTENTION!! Mandatory maa11ng lon1ghl for those 1n1erealed in being on the 1965 FRESHMAN ORIENTATION COMMIT­TEE. 7:00pm La Fortune L1Hia Theatre. Hail Chelf men must also anend. BIRMINGHAM G. PARKS, M. DOMBRDtFSKI, & THE DYNASTY SEND THEIR BEST'  LOST: General B1o text was removed from the far right stde of main carr~s on the 1Oth lloor of the library Wed. evemng. The return olth1s book 15 extremely Impor­tant as I have a lest next week! Call 3615 ASAP if found! FOUND:cross pen W11h ms•gn•a 1n LaFortune liHie theater 4/12 call 239­5713 LOST AT BEAUX-ARTS FRIDAY NIGHT -one sat of keys. Grace Hall kay-nng -one set of kaye, black leather kay-ring -one red plastic necklace -one green comb all can be claimed at architecture office LOST: To whoever accodanlly look my jean jackal with the Springsteen pin on il from South Dining Hall on Sunday, I'd ap­preciate if you ra !Urn illo 308 Lyons. No questions asked. Thanks. Lost navy blue pull-over Windbreaker made by Jos.Bank.Lost on Saturdsy at the tennis courts. It found please call Joe 813496. j:.'Oljj;j[i·:·Grey Samsonile swlcasa found In N.Y.C on Bell Parkway during Easter Break. Su11cue contains clothing with "N.D. Baseball" on it. For more INFO call Lost and Found at239-5036.  Attention Juniors: Summar Internships Available for juniors who live in lha follow­ing 81eas: Dallas, Houston, Austin, Tx. Tucson and Phoenix, Arizona and South­ern California. E81n from $3000.00 lo $7000.00 for the 8ummer. Sales experi­ence a definite advantage. Call (219) 287­410710 set up an interview wllh Coast to Coasllnformabon Systems. Hay I'm I.U. Bound Unfortunately I haven't any wheals. Anyone heading for the Little 500 next weekend? I will share the usual. Call Teresa SMC 5067. RIDE WANTED TO COLOMBUS, OHIO/OSU for this weekend, 4/19-4/21. Call Norma at 2808 Femela Roommete needad aterllflll · Mey 1. c..tla Point Apta. cell 277-13112 evenlnga. ·················································· HELP'! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX, To-GETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296: KEEP TRYING!! SALES ENGINEER, Utility and Industrial Boilers, Fluid Bed Boilers, Ccrgeneralion Systems, Waste lncinerabon, Pulverizers and Stokers-­Riley Stoker Corp., call 312-692-5050 need rids or <iders to I U blmn this wknd  WILL BE THEIR LAST HONOR CON­SIDERING I HAVE NO JOB OR HONORSII WILL MAKE DAD PAY YOU Ill HEY SENIORS! NEED GRADUATION DESPARATELY!!!!! WILL PAY HUGE BUCKS!! PLEASE CALL MARIA ISERN­4304. NEED 3 GRAD TIX WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! CALL SCOTT 4113 NEED GRADUATION TICKETS (3) REALLY BADLY --PLEASE HELP. CALL MEL AT 28~3716. WILL EVEN PAY YOU FOR THEMII NEED 4 GRADUATION TIX. CALL KEVIN AT 287-62112 BUT ONLY AFTER CALLING MEL F'IRSTII NEED 2 GRAD TIX -Please call Mike al 2263 anytime GRADUATION TIX NEEDED Need three tix for l81ge family Call Brian all079 attar 10:30 pm. HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX, To­GETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296: KEEP TRYING!! The BOSS needs graduation tickets. Will  7668. Deadline IS Fnday, April 19th. Dons, "0" tmally! Pat1ence comes to those who wa•l. Yes, have the BESTiime! Love. Dorothy & Jerome She's sweet, she's sexy, she's a BCA goddess, and she's LEGAL! Happy 21st kiddo, from your tavor1te accountmg nerds. "Perenta end Grendparenta: Whet Collage Studenta Need !~on­alder" Gerontologist Dr. Richard Hubbard ad­dresses issues regarding the agmg in our socely. Ho-rdHell Tonight, 7 p.m. OBUD GRIPE NIGHT Wedn..dey Aprfl17,11185 4:45to 6:45PM South Dfnlflll Hell M.B. • "BEST OF LUCK" -LOVE, K & MARIIEAR  TFOR1 SAME AS LAST TIME YOURE SAVIN IM THE TEMPTER THAT IM THE ONE WHOS ALL MESSED UP SEEMS TO ME IM WAlliN FOR A GIRL 2 B A WOMAN 4 THE KID 2 REALIZE THAT SEX IS JUST SEX & THERES ONLY 1 WAY 2 FIND THAT OUT THE GIRLS AFRAID CUZ SIS MESSES UP U R LOOKIN AT THE BAD I JUST WANNA GIVE U GOOD I CAN MAKE IT RIGHT PUT IT IN CON­TEXT GET RID OF YOUR FEAR AND DUMB ROMANTIC NOTIONS ABOUT HARLE­QUIN NOVEL 'BABY YOURE THE ONE I GOTT A DO IT WITH IM STILL WAlliN & THE DOORS AL­WAYS OPEN BUT THE HELL IF IM COMIN ROUND LOOKIN AGAIN DON'T CLICK? WONDER WHEN IT STOPPED ... LOVE ALWAYS THE NAT­URAL JANIS, JANIS, JANIS, JANIS, JANIS WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME !!!!!!!!!!/!!! IT WAS GOD TALKING TO YOU IN A DRUNKEN STUPER BUT IT IS GOING TO BE EVEN BETTER SEEING YOU IN PERSON. HOPE YOU LIKE TO P-A·H-T­Y.  
Be Smertl' Sell your texiS end peperbeckl for SS belore the ruah!l M-F.B/T 12-4 pm. We alao carry a Wide usortmanl of Cliff and Monerch Notn. Pandoru Booka,937 So.S.nd Ave.. l block from Corby'a.  LOST: BLUE JEAN JACKET WITH IM­PORTANT KEYS IN POCKET. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 2850. LOST IN SOUTH DINING HALL SUNDAY ] 12 NOON. LOST:A pair of brown-framed prescrip­ call 81112153 NEED RIDERS TO MIAMI DtF OH/OXF'ORD 4/19 ­4/21 CALL: STEVE 1844 AiD"ER''''NEEOED TO 'CLEV'''THU'A: 2773953  pay lop doll81. Please call2113! HELP!! DESPERATELY NEED GRAD TIX (LOTS)-PLEASE CALL JULIE ]4354 PERSONALS  GO FOR IT MARY B. 1111 THE CLAIRE WILLIAMS TEAM IS THE BEST1!!!!!1 Ken Koehn, Basi ot Luck on Drum Major try-outs CC,MM,MB  JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS Every­one'a golf~~~ tO UNCLE'S IRISH PUB on Thur8. Nile. loceted 411011 Grape Rd. eouth of Unfv Plll'll MeH 75 cent!Wfraeh­mente.10 O'CLOCK. HAPPY HOUR,Friday's BIT 3-6pm.AII used paperbacks 50/ off,all new books 20/ off. Become intoxicated w/knowl&dge  
tion glasaea{not in case). Loa! 4/12. "  REGISTER I=OR THE MOST EXCITING,  balore the Slate makes lhia illegal' Pan­ 
found please call Ellia-1258.  STIMULATING  GAME  YOU'LL  EVER  dora&  Books,937  So.Bend  Ava.233­ 
Found: One peir of llaiian brown leather  FOR SALE  OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & UOUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N.,  PLAY KISSER REGISTRATION IS WEDNES­ 2342.  
gloves. To claim call239-5162  ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.  DAY. APRIL 17  
FOUND: ONE PAIR OF ARGYLES AT BADIN LAUNDRY. CALL 1858 TO IDEN­TIF'Y AND CLAIM  Lost Blue jean jackal at a off-campua perty on 3/29. Please call Jean at 284­ Be smart! Sell your class books belore the ruah. Mon.-Fri between 12 and 4, Save$  LET'S  NUKE  STUDENT  GOVERN­ 6-7pm $1  NEW ORLEANS LAFORTUNE  ROOM  GREATJOII BOOKSTORE SCOREkEEPERS  
LOST: ONE PAIR OF ITALIAN LEATHER  5024.  on paperbacks. Fri: ~6; 50/ off used: 20/ off new. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 So  MENT Then we can start over agam.  AIRBAND  
GLOVES, BROWN SIZE 9. REWARD.  Band Ava. 233-2342  registration in AN TOSYAL office (2nd  Keep up the good work.  
.J'I •.•••••••••.•.. DUE TO MY SPASTIC NATURE I HAVE MANAGED TO LOSE MY WINTER  FOR RENT  6 UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE, No­MEMORIAL AREA. EXCELLENT CON­ LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS: The weekend you've all been wa111ng for is fi­ floor LaFortune) through Friday Peul Loux-The section that matters is will  The CommiSSioners  
VEST. IT IS BLUE WITH FLANNEL LINER AND CORDUROY COLLAR. IT  DITION 233-9728 232-4528  nally hera. CAMPOUT THIS WEEKEND 4/20 TO 4/21. BE THERE.  do all it can lor you tonight--Good Luck!!  
ALSO HAS A GROUND ZERO BUTTON ATTACHED AND EVEN THOUGH GROUND ZERO NO LONGER EXISTS I STILL WOULD LIKE ITS RETURN DUE TO RELIGIOUS 06LIGATIONS. PLEASE RESPOND, THERE IS A  NEED AN APARTMENT Summer Townhouse available tor rent! Call2275 tor information. 2 bedroom apertmenl for summer rent...  Two story, all modern, 3-4 bedroom, C/A, Alarm syalam, 1 & 1/2 bath, MarquaHa district. 287-9103 Experience 'the lap of luxury' .Buy our couch !!This couch must be sean to ba  Riders needed to IOWA STATE or the U. of IOWA on April 19-21 It you want to go call Jenny at SMC 5536 MOONCHILOREN, a play about collage  ATTENTION SPRING BREAKERS Bus A, the PARTY promised has 81rived! Saturday, April 20 at around 4pm at 733 St Louis Street. Bus b may have had it first, but A will have the bast. Call AI at 232-5645 If you have questions.  HELPII NEED 1 OR 2 TIX, TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 12711 OR 12118: KEEP TRYINGII  
REWARD  IN  THE  FORM  OF  S&H  dose to campua(t/4 mila) call277-1258  fully appreciated. Slop by 281 Dillon or call  students during the Viet Nam era, will ba  
GREEN STAMPS. CALL DAN AT 272­ Joe or Mark at 1768  presented in Washington Hall on April18,  RUDEFEST '85  Tixfor  
5416. FOUND: BLACK GLACIER SUN­GLASSES IN ROOM 113 NSH AFTER DR. HAMBURG'S RUSSIAN HISTORY CLASS ON WED APRIL 3. CALL JIM AT 2522 OR STOP BY 336 HOWARDHALL.  Two room efflciency, private entrance, uUIIUas paid 288-0955. AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR -FIVE BEDROOM HOUSE COM­PLETELY FURNISHED. WASHER AND DRYER AND GARAGE. CALL 234-9364.  USED STEREO 35 watts per channel amp, luner, turntable, cabinet, 2 apeakero, good sys­tem lor naKI y..,·, quad. Call Stave at 2534.  19and20al8 p.m. WARNING: Language may be otfeneive to some. Moonchildren MOONCHILDREN MOONCHILOREN  The Oti-Cempua Council, in coltaborelion with The Rudes proudly present a get­together to be remembered. On Saturdey, April 20, al St. Louis Street, the festivities wiH begin at around 4pm. Music and food will also be present. Remember, thel's the 20th .  Trip to White Sox-YenkM'agame April 26 will be on aala for $15 (1ndud&s bus, beverages end ticket) Sunday 1·6pm in LaFortune and LaManslobby and Man­dey from 6-8pm in laMans lobby. Sponsored by SMC Senior Claas  

......___........__._~~-'----------------'-'--'----~----------------------~---~------­
The Observer Wednesday, April17, 1985-page 9 
Lyone11 Revenge Factor over One Jew & the 4 Skins by 7 Lyone12
Pairings Lopes looking to help Irish squad The Squid Twins & 3 Bearded Clams over The Creamers by t 2 
continuedfrom page 8 
Women's Bookatore Keith (MagiC) Lomax & 4. . over 4 Normal Males & Lyone11 
out as his career comes to a close
1 With Stage ... by 10 Quixotic Quint over Ant1mony Pentaflouride by for­
FAW Ill over Milk & the 4 Utters Squirt Again by 3 Booketore 1 0 Keenan Inmates over 5 Stylemasters Who Will Be At the Masters by 1 0 Robots in Disguise over The High Flying Powerhit­
by 9 
feit We Shave Points But Not For Drugs over Jam On It! by21 Foul Trouble over Larks by 3 
Lyone12 

Nan & the Nerds over The Amateurs by 6 
The ·a· Team over Cleo's Avengers & Then Some by4 lAGNAF over Reuben Kincaids by 11 
tersby 11 Chicks Are Dumb over Buttsweat & Tears by 10 lncompretics over T~e Chimp & His Big Bananas 

~ ~ Support the (~uJ) March of Dimes· .4i ~ BIRTH DEFEC1S FOUNDATION  
The Department of Economics, Notre Dame proudly presents its 1984-85speaker series: Can Government Programs Reduce Poverty? Sheldon Danziger Director, Institute for Research on Poverty University of Wisconsin 'What did the War on Poverty Accomplish?' Friday April19, 12:00 noon Hayes-Healy Auditorium For further information, contact Economics Dept. University ofNotre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556  


Valparaiso 
continuedfrom page 12 
however, as the Crusaders notched three runs in the top of the third to take a 3-2 lead. 
Starting pitcher Dan Sacchini was relieved in the top of the third. He left after giving up six hits and four runs. 
Sophomore Gleeson relieved Sac­chini in the third. Gleson proceeded to pitch a masterful game, yielding no runs in three and ltwo-thirds in­nings ofwork. 
In the bottom of the third, the Irish rallied for two big runs to take a 4-3 lead. The Irish would add an in­surance run in the fifth to bring the final tally to 6-4. 
Offensively for Notre Dame, Rich van Thournout was outstanding, going three-for-four with a triple. Freshman first baseman Tim Hutson turned in a sparkling performance while going two-for-three. 
In the top of the seventh, Gleeson gave up a one-out single up the middle. Head Coach Larry Gallo wasted no time in implementing Bob Lee in reliefofGleeson. Lee got the first batter he faced to ground into a doubleplay, ending the game with a 6-4 Irish win. Lee picked up the save. 
"I was very pleased with some of the performances in the second game. Gleeson, Lee and Hutson all did very well," commented Gallo. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will square off against Purdue in a double-header this afternoon at 1:30 on Jake Kline field. The Boiler­makers currently are tied for the Big 10 lead with a conference record of 4-0. 
"They are a very good hitting team. I hope our pitching can hold up", said Gallo. "These should be a couple ofinteresting games." 
Gallo will start Buster Lopes in the opener and joe Dobosh in the tail­end of the twinbill. 

Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
Wednesday April17, 1985 
Between 9:00-4:00 at the 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
By SEAN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
Senior pitcher Buster Lopes has developed into one of the best pitchers in the conference during his Notre Dame career, and may well be faced with a tough decision con­cerning another career very soon, a career in professional baseball. 
For most college athletes the deci­sion would not be hard to make if it was presented to them. Ifgiven the opportunity, they would play pro­fessional baseball. 
But most college athletes aren't in Lopes' position. Besides being a fine pitcher, Lopes is also a fine student. A management-information systems major, he has already been offered a corporate job. 
Lopes has excelled in the class­room since his high school days, when he served as president of the Natinal Honor Society as well as cap­tain of the baseball team. He arrived at Notre Dame as an engineer and a Notre Dame scholar. 
Competition is fierce for student­athletes of Lopes' caliber, and Lopes decided on Notre Dame only after visiting a number ofcolleges. 
"I was recruited by most ofthe Ivy League schools, and a lot of schools in the south ," says Lopes. "I narrowed them down to Yale and Notre Dame. I think I finally decided on Notre Dame because of Coach Gallo." 
Lopes was one ofthe first pitchers recruited by Irish head coach Larry Gallo. Gallo had an opportunity to see just how effective Lopes was as a pitcher because, in the off-season, Gallo served as coach for the Cotuitt Kettleers, Lopes summer team. 
Last summer Lopes posted a3.10 ERA for the Kettleers, who are mem­bers of the prestigious Cape Cod league -a league in which the majority of players get drafted by professional teams. Used primarily as a relief pitcher, Lopes was second in the league in saves and helped his team to the league title. 
"I learned a lot in the Cape league last summer," says the New Bedford, M~sachusetts native. "I came back 'to Notre Dame with lots of confi­dence." 
So far this season, Notre Dame hasn't been able to combine effec­tive pitching with timely hitting, and Lopes 2-4 record reflects it. 
"We've had trouble putting things together so far this year," says Lopes. "We're just not clicking yet, but it's just a matter oftime before we get in the rhythm and in the win column." 
The 11-19-1 Irish are not out of the playoff picture by any means. They are 1-3 in the Midwestern City Conference, but have 8 more con­ference games left to turn things around. The team will be counting on Lopes to supply much of the firepower needed to get to postseason play. 
"We'll need Buster to play well in the stretch drive ifwe want to make the playoffs," says Coach Gallo. 
"The scouts like his size, strength and live arm, and they're looking" at him as a reliever, but his chances depend a lot on how he finishes this season," says Gallo. 
Lopes has no delusions about life in the big leagues, and he realizes that ifhe gets drafted on june 7, he'll be sent to a minor league farm team to be developed. 
"People don't realize that it's not an easy life in the minor leagues," says Lopes. "It's not a glory life until you make it to the big leagues." 
Iffaced with both a corporate and a baseball career, Lopes will have a complicated decision to make. 
"I'll just choose the route that will be best for me," he says. "It's some­thing I'm going to have to give a lot of thought to." 
Lopes doesn't want to squander any ofhis potential, however, saying, "I also don't want to wonder my whole life ifI could have made it in the big leagues." 
Lopes is content to continue playing his best and will take things as they come. As far as his play down the stretch goes, Lopes says, ''I'm going to to try to end my career with a bang, because I have nothing to lose." 
Lopes couldn't be more correct. In his position, he has nothing to lose and everything to gain. 



Moran 
continuedfrom page 12 
baseball town. I think this helped jack to self-actualize. It showed him that he could play with the best." 
This season has not been a very pleasant one for Notre Dame baseball. The team's record going into today's twinbill is 11-19-l. The Irish have held leads in many of the 19 losses, but somehow those leads slipped through their hands. 
"We have to be a good team when we are ahead. Right now we are a 
SENIOR MONTH REGISTRATION 
April16-17, 5-7 pm Where: Ombud desk main floor LaFortune or in the LeMans Lobby Advance ticket sales available for: 
Rush Street Trip • 

Great America Trip • 
Weddingless Reception 
Golf Tourney 
Tivoli's Party 
SMCLuau• 

OC Seniors may also pick up booklets. 
•Must purchase tickets at Registration only 
walked onto Jake Kline field four years ago. 
"Jack has improved every facet of his game. He is a very steady bal­lplayer. He deserves the title of cap­tain." 
Gallo added, ''Jack is not a prolific power hitter. However, he is one of the strongest kids on our team. This has greatly contributed to his hitting this spring." 
"He is one of the finest infielders we have ever had here at Notre Dame. He is also one of the very few four-year starters we have had." 
Moran's playing days, like those of most any other athlete, are filled with memories. Two such 'baseball moments' stand out in Moran's mind. 
"Winning a game against Xavier a couple of weeks ago particularly stands out in my mind," said Moran. "We were down by two runs with two outs in the bottom of the final inning and two strikes on our batter. We rallied to tie the game and go on to win it." 
The other memorable moment 
for Moran occurred during the sum­
mer in the Shenandoah League. 
"I had never hit a homerun in my entire collegiate career. But in three consecudve games in the summer I hit a round-tripper. That was a great thrill for me." 
jack Moran has been a consistent and invaluable performer for the Fighting Irish baseball team throughout his four-year tenure un­der the Golden Dome, and will definitely be missed when his playing days end after the Irish finish this spring season. 
good come-from-behind team. To be better, we have to have the killer instinct ", commented Moran. 
As captain, Jack Moran has had to try and keep his team's spirits and hopes at an optimum. 
"I have tried to get to know all of the team members, particularly the freshmen." Moran added,"Everyone has to know that they are welcome on this team. A sense of belonging and keeping our squad's moral high are two ofmy main responsibilities." 
Larro Gallo has noticed a big dif­ference in the jack Moran oftoday as compared with the jack Moran who 
The Observer Wednesday, April17, 1985-page 10 

Women's tennis team loses a close one to Northwestern by a 6-3 score 
By MARC RAMIREZ 
Sports Writer 
On a cold, dark and windy after­noon at the Courtney Tennis Center yesterday, the heavy beat up on the underdog, but not before the under­dog got a few good licks in, as the Irish women's tennis team fell to na­tional powerhouse Northwestern University, 6-3­
"For once, instead of winning a few sets, we got two matches (the first scheduled doubles match also was won by the Irish by default)," said senior Cathy Schnell, who along with laura Lee, Lisa laFratta and Lisa Gleason wa.~ playing her la.~t match on Notre Dame's home courts. "We went for broke. We didn't have anything to lose." 
]be Wildcats pasted the Irish in last year's meeting, 9-0, and every­one from Coach Sharon Petro on down was determined to prevent a repeat performance. That deter­mination paid off with three match victories -almost four. Susie Panther took her first set against Northwes­tern's Kim Gaudy, but her opponent eventually prevailed in a three-hour­long marathon, 4-6,6-4, 7-6. 
Other singles matches weren't as close. Mary Colligan fell to the Wildcats' Kirstin laux, 6-1, 6-1; Lisa LaFratta was defeated by Stephanie Lightvoet, 7-6, 6-2; Michelle Dasso lost to Kelly Boyse, 6-0, 6-0; and 
Joanne Biafore bowed to Diane Don­nelly, 6-0, 6-1. However, in the sixth and final singles matchup, Notre Dame junior Izzy O'Brien downed opponent Tina Oechsle, 7-6, 7-S. 



NHL field narrowed to eight teams 
Associated Press 
'!be New York Islanders com­pleted the first comeback from a rwo-game deficit in a five-game Na­tional Hockey League playoff series with a 2-1 triumph over Washington Tuesday night, while Quebec and Montreal set up an intra-provincial battle with late game-winning goals against Buffalo and Boston, respectively. 
Second-period goals by Anders Kallur and Brent Sutter gave veteran New York goalie Billy Smith the working margin he needed against the Capitals in their Patrick Division semifinal. Smith, always clutch in the playoffs, finished with 39 saves. 
lbe Islanders, who won four con­secutive Stanley Cup championships before losing to Edmonton in the finals last season, became the first team in league history to recover a 


Beuerlein 
continued from page 12 
peared that the pain which plagued him In the off-season and into the spring was not about to subside. 
"There was obviously a time fac­tor involved," noted Beuerlein, "as far as me being ready to play in the fall. But Dr. Jobe has had 100 per­cent success with this type ofopera­tion In the past, so there was never any doubt in my mind. I could have passed up the surgery until after this season and had it done in January, but the doctors felt that the shoulder was only getting worse." 
The surgery was performed in Centinela Hospital by Jobe, a shoulder specialist and the team physician for the Los Angeles Dodgers. Jobe is probably best known for the reconstructive sur­gery which he performed on major­league pitcher Tommy John. He has also performed similar surgery on big-league hurler Rick Honeycutt. 
Jobe was pleased with the results of Beuerlein's surgery, although he desribed the signal caller's shoulder as "moth-eaten." Jobe was optimis­tic about Beuerlein's recovery, es­timating that the Irish sophomore should be ready to begin throwing after a three-month rehabilitation period. 
"I was a little surprised because the doctors told me that I'll be allowed to lift weights lightly in about six weeks," said Beuerlein. 

"But I won't be able to do any serious throwing for three months, 
which puts me at about mid-July. 
"I don't think that missing this much playing time will hurt me that much," added Beuerlein. "But it's tough because I was looking forward to spring practice as a great time to learn. last year I learned a lot about the offense by playing in the spring, but this year I haven't been able to work on any passing plays. I have been working with the offense on some parts of the passing game and on reading defenses, though." 
Beuerlein had originally planned to return to Notre Dame tomorrow night, but he said that because doc­tors want him to spend two nights in the hospital he will not return until Friday or Saturday. 

Football 
continued/rom page 12 
Freeman. and both are improving quickly after seeing little action in the fall. 
"]bey're both giving a good effort and working very hard," says Selmer. "They're coming along well." . 
At the strong-guard spot, Selmer expects quite a battle to take place for the right to fill the spot created by the departing Williams. John As­kin, a 6-6, 271-pound junior, and 6-S, 2S4-pound classmate Shawn Heffern were battling for the position before both were sidelined with injuries -Askin with an injured knee and Hef­fern with a hurt thumb. '!be Irish coaches have used McHugh to fill in because of the injuries. 
"Both Askin and Heffern are ex­pected back soon," says Selmer, "and I expect the battle to continue to sec who earns the position. Both were playing very well before the in­juries." 
2-0 deficit and win a five-game se­
ries. 
The victory sends the Islanders 
into the best-of-seven divisional 
finals against the Philadelphia Flyers, 
with the series opening in Philadel­
phia on Thursday night. 
Kallur snapped a scoreless tie at 
0:08 of the second period on a 
•reakaway goal. 
New York, which had lost five pre­·ious road games in playoffcompeti­ion, made it 2-0 at 16:56 mark when ;utter took a backhand pass from vlike Bossy in front of the net and ;hot between the legs of goalie Pat :Uggin. 
Bob Carpenter, a 53-goal scorer for Washington during the regular season, got the Capitals' only goal of the game with his first goal of the playoffs just 29 seconds before the end of the second period. 
At the strong-tackle slot, the Irish return another proven performer ­6-5, 274-pound junior Mike Perrino. He, like Scannell, also started all I 2 games last fall, and only Scannell and Kelley logged more minutes among all Irish offensive players. 
"He's been a starter since the 
Miami game his sophomore year," 
says Selmer. "He's been doing quite 
well, and doing what is expected of 
him.'' 
Backing up Perrino arc sop­homores Art McGlothen and Tom Riley. 
"Both are making a good effort," 
says Selmer. "They've got a long way 
to go, but that's to be expected, and 
they're working hard." 
Rounding out the line at the quick-tackle position is 6-5, 272­pound junior Tom Docrger who returns after starting eight games at the position in the fall. Unfortun­ately, a knee injury has sidelined Doerger, and 6-5, 259-pound senior 

Jay Underwood has stepped in as his backup. 
"I really wasn't expecting to win," O'Brien said. "I was pretty surprised when I won the first set. I was down S-2 in the second set, so I just played hard. I wa.~n't really thinking about winning." 
The first doubles match, between Notre Dame's Lee and Panther and Northwestern's Gaudy and Don­nelly, went to the Irish by default. But the team ofColligan and LaFratta · won the second doubles outright, outplaying the Wildcat team ofLaux and Boyse, 6-3, 6-4. In third doubles, Dasso and Schnell fell to Oechsle/Hilton, 7-S, 6-1. 
The Joss gave the Irish only their fourth defeat against 17 victories in an impressive season. They face their next foe, Michigan State, on April 23 in East Lansing. 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWRENTING FOR FALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 820 ND Ave or call open Mon-Fri 3-6pm 
234-6647

Sat ll-3pm 
Brent Ashton scored with 1:09left in the game to cap a third-period comeback from a S-3 deficit, giving Quebec a 6-S victory over the Sabres in the fifth and deciding game of their Adams Division semifinal. 
Ashton scored on a low shot from the right faceolfcircle that deflected in off the goal post to beat goalie Tom Barrasso, setting up a best-of­seven Adams Division final series against Montreal, which beat Boston 1-0. The first game will be in Montreal Thursday night. 
Buffalo took a 5-3 lead early in the third period when defenseman Phil Housley scored on a screen shot from the point, but Quebec scored twice in 64 seconds on goals by Alain Cote and Randy Moller to tie the game 5-5. 
Mats Naslund scored with 51 seconds left in the game to lift the Canadiens over Boston. 
"Underwood is making great progress at the position," says Sel­mer. "And he's working very hard. But Doerger will be back in the fall, and we're counting on him." 
Selmer feels the line has done a good job this spring despite the in­juries, and looks toward the fall with optimism. 
"The injuries in spring practice have hurt us," says Selmer. "They make it most difficult for the offen­sive line to practice. It really hurts when there are four to five guys out at a time -it limits what you can do. 
"But the effort's been great, and that's all we can hope for in spring practice. I'm very hopeful for the fall. I hope for a good year for the offensive line, but more importantly I hope for a good year for the team as a whole. We know these guys have played well against other people, so we look forward to the year. We're always hopeful." 
With the huge and experienced Irish offensive line returning, Notre Dame fans can also afford to be hopeful. 



~t(Jt~C3L~--------------------------------------W--ed_n_e_s_da•y~,-Ap•r-il_1_7_,_1_98_5___p_a~g-e..ll 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
(;(}()fl H€/MiNb l  
WlfATSfl  OH &llWW{l... I 711/NK Hf'S He'5 II M0/?6 ANIMA/.81& FIJ T 7HI1N HIJMI1N-' MfiWSHMtl.l-A .' , I I  UXJK fiT HIM i JIJST lOOK fiT HIM l WHIIT~ HE fJt7/N& !1  

Zeto 

The Daily Crossword 


ACROSS 1 Honey drink 5 Lave 9 Corn porridge 
13 An Emerson 
name 14 District 15 Copycat 16 Situated on 
a certain line 17 Replica 19 Arrange 21 Orderof 
angels 22 Eng. city 24 Author Joyce 
Carol­25 Titled lady 28 "...andyouth -" 
(Coleridge) 31 Surrounded by 32 Horse cart bar 37 Having a 
toothed edge 41 Jewelry item 42 Branch of 
philosophy 44 "There­
greater love ..." 45 Motor 48 Vegetable dish 49 Belle of the 
wild West 53 Fiction work 55 Made bubbly 58 Robert Blake 
TV role 62 Behind the 
scenes 64 Saw 65 "...a dagger 
which -before 
me" 
66 USSR sea 67 Actress Berger 68 Roremand 
Beatty 69 Not so much 70 Being: Lat. 
DOWN 1 Skirt type 2 Yale men 3 Became 
adjusted 4 Grief 5 Thin disks 6 Macaw 
© 1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc 
4/17/85
All Rights Reserved 
7 Cult 8 Jumble 9 Pacific island 
group 
10 "-of sweat will save a gallon..." (Patton) 
11 Brouhaha 12 Fourth estate 13 Bankroll 18 Mangle 20-generis 23 Eggs 25 Art type 26 Stock place 27 Skirt type 29 Chopper 30 Dockworkers' 

org. 40 Omelet base 52 Roues 33 3-floor 43-and Yang 54 Expunge 
apartments 46 Prize family 56 Lat. abbr. 34Goup members 57 Challenge 35 lt. province 47 AGabor 59 Cans 36 Selves 49 Vaccine name 60 Carry 38 Forewams 50 Bother 61 Doctors' org. 39 Weight 51 Formed a bow 63 Fuel 
5CK!lTCH!N(:; HIS HE!lfl. 
I 
Kevin Walsh 


Campus 
•!2:10P.M.-SMCArtNoontalk, 
"Art Experi­ences: Pre and Past Nigeria," Prof. Carol Ann Carter, Room 232 Moreau Hall. 

•2:30 
P.M. -Baseball, ND vs. Purdue, Jake Kline Field. 

•3:30 
P.M. -Lecture, "Reflections on the Evolution of the Theory of Moral Develop­ment," Prof. Lawrence Kohlberg, Harvard, Room I I 7 Haggar Hall. 

•3:30P.M.-Lacrosse,NDvs. 
Wittenberg, Car­tier Field. 

•
3:30P.M. -SMC Softball, SMC vs. Valparaiso, SMC Softball Field. 

•4:20 
P.M. Physics Colloquium, "Superconductivity of Ultr~thin Films," Prof. Allen Goldman, ll. of Minnesota, Room I18 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
P.M. -Lecture, "Recent Results in Alkaloid Total Synthesis," Room 123 Nieuwland. 

•4:45-6:45 
P.M.-OBUDGrlpeNight,South Dining HaiL 

•6:30 
-7:30 P.M. -Toastmaster's Meeting, Election Night, Room 223 Hayes Healy. 

•7, 
9& 11 P.M.-FUm, "Bachelor Party," Engi­neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, SI.50. 

•
7 P.M. -Lecture, "Parents and Grandparents: What College Students Need to Consider," Dr. Richard Hubbard, Gerontologist, Howard Hall, Free. 

•7P.M.-Organizational 
Meeting, Women's League For Peace & Freedom, Center for So­cial Concerns, Seminar Room 2. 

•7 
-9P.M.-TicketDistribution, For Tommy Shaw Concert & Rock-A-Like Contest, LaFortune Ballroom & Haggar College Center, Free. 



TV Tonight 
7:00p.m.  16  M•A•s•H  
22  Three's Company  
28  Jeopardy  
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
28  Wheel of Fortune  
8:00p.m.  16  Highway to Heaven  
22  Double Dare  
28  Fall Guy  
9:00p.m.  16  Facts ofLife  


"And don't give me that 'I'm only bird-watching' line." 
•7:30P.M.-GeneralMeeting, 
World Hunger Coalition, Center for Social Concerns, All Invited. 

•7:30 
P.M. -Lecture, "Second Thoughts, Mostly Heretical About the Reformation," Prof. Edwin Van Kley, Calvin College, Mic­higan, Room 349 Madelva Hall. 

•8 
P.M.-Lecture, James}. Kilpatrick, Synd­icated Columnist and Author, Library Auditorium. 

•8 
P.M. -UND South African Network, Organized by the African and Black Studies Program, CSC Auditorium. 

•8 
P.M. -Meeting, Southern California Club, Little Theater, LaFortune. 

•8 
P.M. -RASTA Meeting, Center for Social Concerns. 

•IO 
P.M. -Mass, In Memory of Monsieur L'Abbe Carton, Director ofInternational Cen­ter of Catholic University of the West (ND Angers Program), Howard Hall. 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Baked Ham Baked Cod Spaghetti With Mean Sauce 
Saint Mary's Pizza Deluxe Turkey Fried Rice Deli Bar Spinach Soufile 
22  . Movie ­Stark  
28  Dynasty  
9:30p.m.  16  Sara  
10:00p.m.  16  St. Elsewhere  
28  Hotel  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Magnum/Movie  


f 

! f 
I 
! 
t 
l 
t 
i t 
I 


··. ·-•• >.. ""­
-··'--.... ·..;. 
The Obscrvcr/ChaJtanva Panchal 

Irish second baseman jack Moran, sboum here batting in last weekend's game against Xavier, bas been one ofthe biggest bright spots for the Notre Dame baseball team. For more on Moran, and for details ofyesterday's doubleheader spltt wttb Valparaiso, see Kevi11 Herbert's stories below. 

Improved play? 
Irish baseball team splits twinbill with Valparaiso 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 

John Gleeson ( 1-0) pitched three and two-thirds innings ofscore­
less baseball en route to his first win of the season as Notre Dame 
bounced back from an opening game defeat to split a twinbill with 
Valparaiso on Jake Kline field yesterday. 
lbe Irish, in splitting the double header, brought their season 
ledger to I 1-19-1. 

In the first game, Notre Dame and Valparaiso were deadlocked at 
three after three innings of play. Valparaiso proceeded to score one 
run in the fourth and one more in the sixth to outdistance the Irish, 
5-3. 

Notre Dame captain Jack Moran did his job in the leadoff spot, 
going two-for-three with a walk. Dave Clark and Mike Trudeau each 
picked up an RBI in the losing effort. 
On the pitching front, sophomoreJohn Bowen started and hurled 
five and two-thirds innings before being relieved in the sixth. Bowen 
struck out fi\·e, walked four and yielded six hits and four earned runs. 
Head Coach Larry Gallo said he was pleased with Bowen's perfor­
mance,"John pitched very well. We had a couple of fielding errors 
which, in my opinion, cost us the ballgame." 
Gallo continued, "These errors have been costing us games all 
year long. We cannot continue to make them." 
After their loss, the Irish were able to turn things around and win 
the second game by as many runs as they lost the opener. The final 
was 6-4. 

Notre Dame jumped out to an early two-run lead when they 
scored twice during their initial at-bat. The lead did not last long, 
see VALPARAISO, page 9 

Moran leads team with skills and experience 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 

Jack Moran's much improved batting average, consistent fielding and inspiring leadership have been bright spots for Larry Gallo's Fighting Irish baseball team this spring. 
Moran, the captain of the Irish, has been the starting second baseman for Notre Dame throughout his collegiate years under the Golden Dome. 
Moran, a native of Memphis Tennessee, has greatly improved his batting skills this season, raising his average to .320 this spring. 
"I am pleased with my hitting thus far. I am hitting the ball much more consistently and making harder outs." Moran added, "When I was a freshman some ofmy outs were little dribblers. That is happen­ing far more infrequently now. Most of my outs are hard hit." 
Practice makes perfect, baseball is no exception to this rule. In addition to Moran's experience at Notre Dame, last summer he played semi-pro ball in the prestigious Shenandoah Valley League. 
In this league Moran more than held his own against quality players from around the country -in particular, players from the baseball mecas of the SEC, ACC, Southwestern and Sun Belt Confer­ences. 
Head baseball coach Larry Gallo said he believes that this game experience helped Moran's performance this season "lbis summer Moran played against players from the big-time 
see MORAN, page 9 
Wednesday, April 17, 1985-page 12 

Second round of Bookstore XIV begins with action-packed games 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
The second round of Bookstore 
XIV matched teams that had previ­
ously won at least one game, and this 
arrangement provided several ex­
cellent games to go along with a few 
blow outs. 
The First Source Bank and the 
Travelling Allstars and Motor Kings 
rolled over UTB by a 21-4 score. 
First Source Bank used a 1-2-2 press 
and a deadly fast break to shoot 21­
of-36 from the field while holding 
UTB to only 20 attempts. The victors 
had balanced scoring, as two players 
pumped in five baskets each and two 
others added four apiece. 
We Can't Play Basketball but We Don't Date BP Chicks Either lived up to its name, as it was destroyed by seeded Weethy's Warriors, 21-2. Keith Sawayda poured in nine of 12 shots and Allyn Morris contributed five more to pace the winner's 21­for-33 shooting. Besides having a potent offense, Weethy's Warriors held their opponents to only 21 shots. 
The Squid Twins and 3 Bearded Clams got creamed 21-9 at the hands of The Creamers, another seeded team. Keith Veselik, Brian Golden and John Verfurth each scored six times to lead The Creamers. Warren Christie could only contribute one basket in 1 5 attempts as the losers shot a very poor 9-for-50. 
Five Hoosiers in Leisure Suits dis­played the enthusiasm that once again made them one of the most en­tertaining teams in the tournament. Energy could not take the place of talent, however, as the Five Hoosiers lost to Four Delinquents and Our Lawyer by a 21-13 score. Frank Kelly hit on five of eleven shots for the losers, but his teammates could only manage to shoot 8-for-39. Matt Bar­rett turned in the best offensive per­formance of the day, as he layed in 11 baskets in only 12 attempts to pace the victors. 

The Uncoachables continued to show why they don't need any coaching, as they rolled over King Ortega and the Naugle's Gang by a 21-9 score. The Uncoachables needed only 31 shots to win, as Jack Obringer and Scott Veselik each connected on seven attempts while Tim Hogan added six. 
Keenan Inmates used superior height and decent shooting to defeat 5 Stylemasters Who Will be at the Masters by a 21-1 1 score. Rick Bliha 
Bookstore
616
'ZIY-,, \ / / XIV 
\ / 
.~/ 'I 
l • 

t*' \;' 
led the winners with eight baskets, while Brian Tucker contributed six points on only nine shots 
Private Club, a team composed of dining hall employees, served up a fine performance in defeating Just Taint by a 21-10 score. Mark Seals and Aaron Giles each scored seven baskets for the winners. 
The weather for the first day ofthe second round did not cooperate, as the conditions were windy and cold. These conditions made scoring more difficult and created several close games. 
The Hit Men rubbed out Car­nivorous Buttflies in an exciting 21­18 contest. Thant Wright and Chris Simms poured in six shots apiece for the winners, while Doug Atchinson 
drove for seven baskets to lead a stir­
ring comeback for the losers that 
just fell short. 
Foley's Runners barely edged ahead of Andy and the Hog Stabbers at the finish for a 21-18 victory. Var­sity player Laura Dougherty guided the winners's patient offense, while Brent Paulsen led the balanced scoring attack with six hoops. An ex­citing third round game has shaped up as Foley's Runners faces Weethy's Warriors on Sunday. 
FAQ II edged ahead of Milk and the 4 Udders Again by a 21-18 score. Otto Hilbert tallied seven marks on the scoresheet, while Candler Branett added six for the winners. John Gobbs took over half of his teams's shots, but he was only able to connect on seven of those 31 at· tempts. 
Keith (Magic) Lomax and 4 Other Guys That like to Show Their Stuff demonstrated plenty of basketball ability in rolling over 4 Normal Males and One With Stage Fright by a 21-1 1 score. Bill Goslee powered his way to 11 baskets in 23 attempts to pace the victors. 
We're Worschless was worseless, as they lost 21-1 5 to Prepare to Meet Your Maker. Mike Stockrahm posted a super 10-for-16 shooting perfor­mance for the victors, while Kirk Kimler and Ken Fryztak each con­tributed seven points in a losing cause. 
BOOKSTORE BRIEFS -Commis­sioner Jeff Blumb warns teams that baskets, rims, and other equipment are being damaged by teams after games. Blumb states that costs will have to go up next year if the damage continues... Top-seeded Revenge of the Fun Bunch takes on Feeney's Weenies at Stepan I at 6: 1 5 in the key matchup of the day. 





Offensive line progresses very well despite injuries over spring season 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 

Sports Writer 
As the Notre Dame football team 
enters the final two weeks of spring 
practice, the coaching staff is 
looking for great improvement at all 
positions. But one area of the Irish 
squad -the offensive line -appears 
strong already. 
The Irish return three starters 
from last year's starting line, losing 
only Mike Kelley (center) and Larry 
Williams (strong guard) to gradua­
tion. 

Although injuries to key members of the line have hampered Notre Dame's practice plans throughout the spring, offensive line head coach Carl Selmer feels the group has ac­complished a great deal so far this spring. 
"I'm pleased with the effort every­one has given this year," says Selmer. "We're trying to do a lot of things with the line, and they've ·all responded well." 
With the loss of Kelley at center, the Irish have decided to move junior Ron Plantz to that position. The 6-4, 271-pound Plantz started three games at quick tackle last fall while being hampered by a knee in­jury. 
Plantz had been performing well in practice, but injured a knee in the team's scrimmage before Easter. Nonetheless, Selmer still looks to Plantz to solidfy the line at center when he returns from the injury. 
"Plantz has played center before," says Selmer, "and we're confident he'll do the job." 
Chuck Lanza, a 6-3 sophomore, had replaced Plantz until he, too, went out with an ankle sprain. So Mark Antonietti, a former defensive noseguard, and Byron Spruell, a former defensive tackle, have been converted to offense to work at cen-
Spring Football 
~·as 
ter while Plantz and Lanza recuperate. At the guard positions, the Irish again sport a great deal of experi­
ence. Six-four, 277-pound junior Tim Scannell returns to his quick guard position after starting all 12 all Irish games last season. One sign of Scannell's importance and durability is the fact that he led all the Irish in total minutes played last season. 
"Scannell has been a fixture at of­fensive line for a couple of years now," says Selmer. "He's been doing everything quite welL He helps the team tremendously." 
Backing up Scannell are sop­homores Tom· McHugh and Tom 
see FOOTBALL, page 10 



Beuerlein doing fine after surgery on sore shoulder 
By LARRY BURKE 
AssistantSports Editor 
Irish quarterback Steve Beuer­lein underwent successful shoulder surgery yesterday after­
noon  in  Inglewood,  Calif.,  to  
repair  a  painful  chipped  col­ 
larbone  that  hampered  his  

throwing last season. The proce­dure, which involved removing a small piece ofclavicle bone from Beuerlein's shoulder, reportedly went well. 
When reached in his hospital room last night, Beuerlein said he was in a lot of pain, but was gen­erally relieved to be through with the procedure. 
No complications developed during the surgery, although Beuerlein's shoulder was reportedly damaged slightly more than doctors had expected. Despite this, the procedure was completed in just under an hour, less time than was originally an­ticipated. 
"The doctors said that there turned out to be more damage than they had origianlly thought," said Beuerlein, a native of Fullerton, Calif. "They told me that if I hadn't had this surgery, 1 would have really had a tough time throwing next season." 
Beuerlein and his family opted last Wednesday to go ahead with the surgery, after a consultation with Dr. Frank Jobe, when it ap­
see BEUERLEIN, page 10 

-----------------------------------------~~--------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~ 




