Snow storms -page 3 

Nothing is safe around the LaFortune Student Cemer these days as workers continue digging, building and banging In the hopes offinishing the 

LaFortune renovations continue to be completed by September '86 ; 
By JACQUELINE RIZNER to work on it," Dedrick said, "and are now beginning to remodel the StaffReportrr there will be quite a lot of dust and center stairway and put up columns noise as there has been." for the exterior addition. 
'(be renovation of LaFortune Stu· They are trying to minimize the The excavation for the new dent Center continues to make disruption of the upper offices, he center stairway will then be done as progress and is scheduled to be added, by doing the renovations well as the Installment of the new completed by September of 1986, there in the summer when students toilet facilities, he said. according to Don Dedrick, director won't be here. Finally, Dedrick said, the new ex­of the physical plant. Dedrick explained the progress of panded Huddle will be opened up. 
'Ilte project is on schedule, said the renovation in a step-by-step joni Neal, director of student ac­lkdrkk, and the coming of winter manner. First the walls In the base­tivities, attends progress meetings should not affect the completion ment had to be removed and rebuilt with the contracters every two date. for the new business area which will weeks and said she is very happy 
In the next several months, include the flower shop, travel with the progress so far. Dedrick said workers will continue bureau, and hairstylists. There have been no major t<> construct the addition on the east changc:s in the original renovation side of the building as well as con­Next, the workers had to remove the plan, ;lccording to Neal, although tinuing the renovation of the exist­game room to begin construction on workers have encountered some ing building. the new addition on the east side of construction difficulties. 
'fnis means some inconveniences the building. "They have found some construe-for the students, he said. "We'll have These first two steps are well un­
see LaFORTUNE, page 6 
to close off portions of the building derway, Dedrick said, and workers 

Convicted spy receives life sentence 
5250,000, will be eligible for parole far greater responsibility than either in 10 years. John Walker or Michael Walker," the 
NORFOLK, Va. -Arthur Walker, a Walker's wife Rita, the only wit­judge said. "I can't treat this as a slap­retired Navy officer convicted of ness at the sentencing hearing, tes­on-the-wrist case. The evidence is all supplying secrets to a Soviet spy ring tified that he became suicidal while to the contrary." run by his brother, was sentenced to he was spying and had an affair with Defense attorneys, who had tried life in prison yesterday by a judge his brother's wife in the late J960s unsuccessfully to get a plea bargain who refused to "treat this as a slap­and early J970s. for Arthur Walker, said they were on-the-wrist case." His brother, John Walker Jr., 48, a stunned by the sentence and would 
retired Navy chief warrant officer, appeal to the 4th U.S. circuit Court Walker, a c; 1-year-old retired and John Walker's son, Navy seaman ofAppeals in Richmond. Navy lieutenant commander, told Michael Walker, 22, pleaded guilty 
"The message that's gone out that he wished to "apologize to all for his cooperation with authorities, from this is ... ifyou'regoing to do it, the citizens of this country for what I John Walker is to receive a life sen­do it big and don't try to help be­did." tence and his son is to serve 25 cause you can make them deal with "1 dishonored myself. I devastated years. 
U.S. District Judge Calvin Clarke Jr. to espionage Oct. 28. In exchange 
you," said Samuel Meekins, one of my family. Nobody could be any sor­two defense attorneys. rier," he said. Arthur Walker's attorneys argued Arthur Walker described his role 
Clarke then sentenced Walker, of that his role in the spy ring was less to FBI agents shortly after his brot· Virginia Beach, to the maximum of significant than his brother's or nep­her's arrest May 20, but Assistant U.S. three life terms and four 1 0-year hew's, but Clarke disagreed. Attorney Tommy Miller said the 
terms on seven counts of espionage, "Arthur Walker was an older brot­government believed he has con­with the sentences to run concur­
her and an officer and had been cealed the extent of his involve­rently. Walker, who was also fined entrusted by his government with ment. 


HPC to students: Student Senate's fate in your hands now 
By SCOTI BRARBY responded by saying research was Asststant News Edttor done throughout the summer by Student Body Vice President Duane 
The "new beginning" of disband­Lawrence and others. Healy called ing the Student Senate proposed by the proposal "well thought out" and five student leaders is one step added he "didn't ~e what more closer to implementation after the work could be done without spin­Hall Presidents' Council voted to ning our wheels." send the proposed amendment to Both Lewis Hall President Mimi the student body. Soule and Pasquerilla East President 
By a narrow vote of 18 for, six Carie Hand agreed HPC needed to against, and one abstention, HPC ap­vote for the amendment in order to proved the amendment, which calls make student government effective. for senate disbandment. A two­Soule said some members ofher hall thirds approval vote was needed for said they didn't feel student goven­the measure to go to a student vote. ment is serving who they arc 
According to Ombudsman supposed to and felt the restructur­representative Maher Mouasher, ing was a good idea. Ombudsman will begin prepara­Student Senator K.C. Culum said tions for the vote, which will take that although Lawrence may have place sometime next week, possibly spent the summer doing research, a Tuesday. proposal was not actually drawn up 
Before the vote, hall presidents until one-and-a-half weeks ago. Phil­and concerned students debated lip Coghlan, a concerned student, whether disbanding senate Is the added that changes made last week way to make student government at a special HPC meeting on the most effective or whether other op­amendment show not enough time tions needed to be considered. has been spent In detailing neces­
Mouasher, who spoke as a con­sary information. cerned student, called the decision During the meeting, Healy dis­to restructure student government a tributed a proposal he will be "big step" and asked HPC to con­making to the Campus Life Council, sider whether enough time was which along with the HPC will gain spent on developing the plan for additional responsibilities, that calls long term use. "Is this the best it can for a student affairs committee ofthe be?" he asked. CLC to be formed. 
"Simply juggling factors around Cavanaugh President Bill Lytle will lead to another restructuring" said the CLC committee "Is what I in the future, something Mouasher am looking for" in establishing an said has been done "every two or outlet for student voice. three years." 
see HPC, page 5 
Student Body President Bill Healy 

Lawrence explains proposed change 

By GERRY GOLDNER two faculty memberli, according StaffReporter to Lawrence. "What many students do not 
The Student Senate presently realize is that many of the rectors acts as a forum for student discus­do not always agree with the ad­sion. It initiates discussion of ad­ministration's policies," said ministration policies which Lawrence. concern the students, it allocates Student Body President Bill the student activities budget and Healy intends to form a student 
it approves appointments to committee of the eight student 
cabinet positions, according to members of the CLC in order to Duane Lawrence, student body consolidate student opinion, said vice president. Lawrence. 
But it might not be doing this The HPC will assume the much longer. power to modify the constitu­
An amendment to the student tion. A two-thirds vote of the government constitution was HPC would be necessary to passed last night by the Hall propose an amendment to the Presidents' Council which would student government constltu· eliminate the senate. The amend­tion. A unanimous vote in the ment, written by Lawrence and HPC or a two-thirds majority of HPC chairman Kevin Howard, the student body will be needed 
will be brought to a student to ratify an amendment. referendum vote next week, 'lbe amendment also will grant probably Tuesday. the HPC the power to call a 
According to the amendment, meeting of the student body the student body president will president and the CLC within 10 assume the role of initiating stu· days. Under the amendment, the dent discussion. The Campus Life HPC also will be given the power Council will act as a forum for to approve appointments to discussion on administration cabinet positions. policies concerningthe students. The dissolution of the senate 
The student influence In the will not result in any true in-CLC will not be weakened by the 
see CHANGE, page 5 

presence of the six rectors and 


The Observer Wednesday, November 13, 1985-page 2 
Of Interest 
A prominent art critic will be the artist-in­residence today and tomorrow at Saint Mary's. Lucy Lippard will speak tonight at 8 in Carroll Hall on "Art in Society." Lippard is regarded as a major force in the arts, politics of art and feminist writing. Tomorrow, she will present an in-house seminar on "Women and Art." Lippard holds a B.A. from Smith College and an 
M.A. from the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University. -The Ob­server 
The Executive Director of the International Spe­cial Olympics, Steve Gay will speak at 6:30 tonight in LaFortune's Little Theatre. Gay is a former U.S. Olympic soccer team member. The presentation will last approximately half an hour with a ten minute slide show included. -The Observer 

Spiritual Rock of Notre Dame will hold its weekly fel­lowship meeting tonight at 7 in the Keenan Hall Chapel. All new­comers are encouraged to attend and find out about the group. -The Observer 
The Farm Labor Organizing Committee will 
hold a general meeting tonight at 7:30 in the Center for Social Con­cerns. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Wisconsin club members who live otr-campus 
may pick up their November newsletter at the OBUD desk in 
LaFortune. The newsletter gives details of the Thanksgiving break 
bus. -The Observer 
Engineering opportunities in the steel in­
dustry will be discussed by Herschel Poole, managing director, and Gordon Gerdt, president-elect, of the Association of Iron and Steel Engineers. The lecture and discussion, sponsored by The Society of Women Engineers, will be at 7 tonight in Room 303 Cushing Hall of Engineering. All interested students are welcome. -The Observer 
The HealthAdvisoryCouncil will m~et today 
at 4 p.m. in the Library Lounge. All members please attend. -The Observer 
Giles Quispel, professoremeritius ofchurch his­tory at the University ofUtrecht, The Netherlands, will give a lecture entitled "The Origins of Gnosticism" tonight at 8 in Notre Dame's Galvin Life Science Building auditorium. QuiSpel's lecture is sponsored by Notre Dame's department oftheology.-The Observer 
AbnerMikva, circuitjudgeon the United States 
Court ofAppeals for the District ofColumbia and G. Robert Blakey, professor of law at Notre Dame, will debate the Racketeer In­fluenced and Corrupt Organizations Act tomorrow at noon in the Law School's student lounge. The debate is sponsored by the Univer­sity ofNotre Dame Law School's Thomas}. White Center on Law and Government. -The Observer 

Terry Brennan former Notre Dame football coach and first vice-president of Prudential-Bache Securities will present a lecture in the Hayes-Healy auditorium today at 4 p.m. The lecture, titled "Change Produces Opportunity," will address the oppor­tunities resulting from the changes taking place in the financial services industry. A reception will follow the presentation. -The Observer 
Army ROTC, First Sergeant Joe Schweninger will join hosts John Deckers and Tom McGee tonight at 10 on Campus Perspectives (WVFI 64 AM). In addition to being drill team first ser­geant, Schweninger is also a member of the Irish Ranger Camping. Listeners may call the station at 239-6400 with questions and com­ments. -The Observer 


Weather . 
The typical South Bend weather is upon us as there is an 80 percent chance ofthundershowers today, with a high in the low to mid 60s. A 60 percent chance of thundershowers tonight and tomorrow, with the low in the lower 50s. High tomorrow will be 60 to 65. -AP 


Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor........................Andi Schnuck Design Assistant .................. Kathy Huston Slotman ......................................Larry Burke Typesetters ...., ................................. Pat Clark 
jennifer Bigott News Editor ...................... Mark Pankowski Copy Editor ........................ Margie Kersten Sports Copy Editor .......... Mike Szymanski Sports Special Layout............ Many Bums 
John Mennen 
The O"""'rver ( l 'S~ ~~ l-~000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and val·ation (X'riods.Tht O~rvrr is published by the studentsofJhe l'ni\'erMI)' of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Subscriptions may 1x purchaS<"d for SW per year ( SlO ~r semester) by writing The O"""'rver, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. lndoana ~6~~6 
The O"""'rver 1s a mcmlxr of The As!loclaled Prrss. All reproduction rights arc 
r~St"r\'~d 
Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Alice Groner VlewpolntJ.ayout............ Melissa Warnke Features Copy Editor...... Gertie Wimmer Features Layout......................... Carey Gels ND Day Editor........................ Diane Dutart SMC Day Editor................. Mary jean Sully Friday SMC Day Editor...... Priscilla Karle Ad Deslgn ...........................jean Grammens 
Jim Kramer Photographer............................ Mary White 



As winter begins to set in, so does student apathy 
The woods are lovely, dark and deep. ButI havepromises to keep, And miles to go before I sleep, 
And miles to go before I sleep. -Robert Frost, Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening 
It's that time of year again. Fall break is over. Thanksgiving is just out of reach. Christmas is unrealis­tic. And students are becoming restless and bored with the routine oflife in the Notre Dame community.· 
The evidence is all around us. 
Classes are past the midway point. Most everybody has used up all their unexcused absences. By now, stu­dents have their professors pegged and vice versa. As 
B.B. King said, "The thrill is gone." 
At work, people are less enthusiastic about their jobs. Restless. Looking for something new but not expecting to find it. 
Social life is becoming predictable. Freshmen, having finally made it to the wonderful world ofcollege ­with the obligatory wild parties and togas -have become wisened old veterans who nod stoically as they recite the difference between an SYR and a for­mal. 
Student government isn't as fun as it used to be. 
Look at all those issues that ignited the collective student mind a few weeks ago. Student Senate disband­ment. The Dillon Decision. The Healy recall referen­dum. The South African issue. Parietals. 

The referendum on the disbandment of the Student Senate wasn't held last Tuesday, as was originally planned. Nor was it held yesterday. It might be held next week, or maybe not at all, depending on what the Hall Presidents' Council decided last night. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson responded to what he termed an "incendiary" resolu­tion from the Student Senate to define the limits of the University's jurisdiction over students with a nicely­worded, well-thought out response, closing with, "I am more than happy to respond to the request and hope my clarification is helpful." Ssssssss. Out go the flames. 
The movement to hold a recall election for Student Body President Bill Healy and Vice President Duane Lawrence has fizzled. What was once a group of emotionally-motivated students demanding their right to representation eventually became an exercise in cooperation and the rebirth ofsome sense ofunity wit­hin the Healy administration. 
****************** ...--------------___; ________, 
~ WANTED: l ~ One good used : 
21 novembre 
t ** Macintosh : ** * System * 

greve de
* * 
: call: : : 289-4811 days : 

la cigarette
* *
*•******************'---------------------' 

Seniar: Accept the Challen,.e! 
-CONSIDER-Haly Crass Associates 
(iJ l.B(I](i]llJ~l3 VI! LU(!JI] I:!Jl!JU ~L!J:.!Jill U.!.f!CDC,;I:? U[ ill f!(!.(lj(!ji.BI]Ul.E Ww~&I 
PLACEMENTS: Hayward, CA., Avandale, AZ., Calarada Sprinr.~s. CD., Partland. DR. Aprllicatian DEADLINE: .January 3t 

M..I.Murra 5521 
Dan 
McCullough 
News Editor 


Students protesting apartheid, the systematic dis­crimination and oppression of people in South Africa, were shouted down at the Notre Dame football game with chants of "More investment!" and "Go to hell!" Whatever happened to integrity? Or even class? 
When concerned student leaders published convinc­ing pleas in The Observer for students to write Tyson about unfair implementation ofthe parietals regulation, only a handful ofstudents took the time to respond. 
This kind ofattitude could justify the statement, "Notre Dame students aren't just apathetic; they're pathetic." 
But that would be a defeatist attitude. It's not that bad. This lack ofmotiva­tion, if you will, can be blamed on the depressing weather that is beginning to settle into the area, or all the construction students have to walk around on the way to class, or the seemingly in­finite distance between breaks or even weekends, or the long lines in the dining hall at 12:55 when you have 
,,.,.J a 1: 1 5 class. It's all these things and it's none ofthese things. 

Even though life at Notre Dame has seemingly become temporarily stagnant academically, socially and politically, this doesn't mean the party's over. This is what is called a lull. 
The campus is just catching its breath. 
The same thing happened last year at this time. The most controversial topic in the letters section of The Observer a year ago was whether the "Women of Notre Dame" calender was sexist. How easy it would be to replace this phrase with "USC cheerleader picture." The rhetoric is the same. Not what you would call demanding. 
The year before that was even worse. This date in 1983 graced the campus with the burning question of whether more laundry facilities should be made available to men. Yawn. 
Eventually, precedent has shown us that things will pick up. Just sleep late when you can. Drink plenty of orange juice (cold and flu season is just around the corner). And sharpen your steely knives for the next round ofcontroversy. 

The Observer Wednesday, November 13, 1985-page 3 



... 


.. 
APPhoto 

Hearry snow almost obliterates the highway sign deaths have been reported in the west sofarfollow­at Baxter, Calif., where the California Highway ing one of the heaviest snowfalls on record. Story Patrol closed Interstate 80. At least seventeen below. 

General claims overthrow of Liberian government 
Associated PreS!I 

A fugitive general claimed yester­day he had overthrown Liberia's government, but a man identifying himself as head of state Samuel Doe said by telephone from the ex­ecutive mansion that he was still in charge of the West African nation. 
The U.S. embassy spokesman in Monrovia said that the center of the Liberian capital was calm at mid­afternoon and that Doe loyalists had taken the government radio station back from the rebels. He said some soldiers who apparently were rebels were still on the streets. 
The London bureau of NBC, said Its staff telephoned the executive mansion in Monrovia and inter­viewed a man who said he was Doe. 
"The situation here is under con­trol, and I'm still in power," the man said. "I want to appeal to the Uberian people to be calm and all those that came with (rebel leader Thomas) Quiwonkpa to put down their arms and report to the nearest police officer." 
He said loyalist troops had killed "about 15 rebels" who attacked the executive mansion before: dawn. 
The U.S. embassy spokesman, Ric­hard Gilbert, said in a telephone: in­terview with Associated Press Radio in Washington: "as fur as we know all Americans are safe. We've advised people to remain in their houses, off the streets." 
Gen. Quiwonkpa was among the leaders of the bloody 1980 "sergeants' coup" that brought Doe to power, but his former comrade accused him of plotting two years ago and Quiwonkpa fled the country. 


Correction 
At least 17 dead following series of record breaking snow storms 
record low of 31 for the second day week to get everybody out," said 
in a row. To the east, Caribou, Maine, Jack BaJrtley, Yakima County search 

lip to two feet ofsnow fell yester­had a record low of6 degrees. and rescue coordinator, adding that day over northern Arizona and Utah The heaviest snow yesterday 50 to 75 had walked to safety by as a storm turned eastward after moved into northern Arizona and early yesterday and National Guard piling up huge drifts in the Sierra Utah. Ten inches ofsnow fell during helicopters rescued 31 Monday. Nevada, stranding hunters and the night in northern Utah at the Alta In Northern California's mountain hikers and breaking records for cold ski resort, after up to 14 inches fell in counties, at least 45 people includ­temperatures. the state's mountains Monday. The ing campers, hikers, hunters and ot­
At least 17 deaths had been Alta, Snowbasin and Snowbird hers had been led to safety as of hlamed on a series of winter-like resorts had accumulated 22 to 24 yesterday by sherifi's deputies and storms since last week, but most inches. rescue ski patrolsfrom isolated areas hikers and hunters reported missing In northern Arizona the city of of the Sierra Nevada and El Dorado in Northern California had been Flagstaff, at an elevation of about National Forest, said Erik Holst, a found as of yesterday. Trucks slid off 7,000 feet, got 10 inches in five forest spokesman. roads and power lines fell in Utah, hours and schools were closed. Snow snarled traffic yesterday in and schools were closed in northern Grand Canyon had 14 inches and 24 mountain passes north of Los An­Arizona. inches ofsnow was on the ground at geles, and a mudslide in the fire­
"We're projecting significant Jacob Lake, on the sparsely pop­denuded mountains north of Ojai winter weather across the moun­ulated Kaibab Plateau between the closed state Highway 33, officials tains at fairly low elevations for this Grand Canyon and the Utah border. said. Snow was I3 inches deep at Big early in the season, and significant An estimated 250 elk hunters Bear u1ke in the mountains 85 miles snow should remain over the moun­remained stranded by up to 4 feet of northeast of Los Angeles, and snow tains" into today. jack Hales of the snow in the Cascade Mountains of fell over parts of Riverside County, 
National Severe Storms Forecast Washington. One woman was found east ofthe city. Center in Kansa~ City, Mo., said early dead yesterday in a pickup, ap­In contrast to the cold, record yesterday. parently a victim of carbon highs were reported yesterday in 
Winnemucca, Nev., posted a monoxide as the engine was kept the Southeast, including 85 at Jack­record low of Hdegrees below zero running for heat, said Yakima son, Miss.; 78 at Paducah, Ky., and 79 yesterday, and Yakima, Wash., had a County emergency service spokes­at Huntsville, Ala. The high of 80 at record low of 7 degrees. Eureka, woman Karen Dean. Memphis, Tenn., toppled a record Calif., on the northern coast, had a "It's probably going to take all that had stood since J879. 
In the Student Senate story yes­
terday a portion ofVice President 
for Student Affairs Father David 
Tyson's letter to Bill Healy, stu­
dent body president, was lnad­
vertantly omitted. The following 
is the complete text ofthe letter: 
"I am writing in response to your letter of November 4th and the Student Senate Resolution 
N.B. 1. I trust that you will com­municate my response to the Senate. 
"I will attempt to be clear with respect to the University's posi­tion on sanctions taken against groups away from the University. Any member of the University community, student, fuculty, or administrator, can bring embar­rassment or disgrace to the Uni­versity by their actions by virtue ofthe fact that they are identified as members of the community. However, it is quite a different matter when members of the community take it upon them­selves to act as agents of the Uni­versity by flying flags, entering contests on behalf of the Univer­sity, etc. In the latter case, the University has and will continue to impose sanctions on these parties when their actions, on be­half of the University, are in op­position to the values and principles which are at the foundation of Notre Dame's mis­sion. The sanctions imposed are 
contingent upon the cir­cumstances Involved and the judgement of those charged with the decision-making. 
"There have been Individual students in the past who have engaged in activities away from the campus that have been dis­paraging to the community and have been adjudicated by ap­propriate law enforcement offi­cials and the courts. In these cases, the University has not imposed further sanctions. These cases, on the other hand, are quite different from a student or group of students who de facto set themselves up as agents ofthe University. In my opinion, the Office of Residence Life has been consistent and fuir when examin­ing complaints that are brought to our attention from other cities or campuses. I should also point out that I am much more con­cerned with the fairness ofadeci­sion which is not always guaranteed by consistency. 
"In closing, allow me to say that I am perplexed by the tone of the Resolution In that I have always responded to Senate re­quests for clarifications, etc. Regardless of the Incendiary tone ofthe Resolution, I am more than happy to respond to the request and hope that my clarification is helpful." 


Canyou
Fl T T E N T I a N • 
alfordtog~

v~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~--~~--~~--~~ 
with the LSAT, GMAT,
GRE,orMCA17

All Marketin'=J, Finance!I 
Probaol'y' not. Great grades alone may not be enouQh to impress the grad school of your choice. 
Scores play a part. And that's how Stanley H. Kaplan can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches test-talting techniques, reviews course sul:ljects. and increases ' the odds that you'll do.the best you cando. 
So ifyou've been out of school for a while and need a refresher, or even ifyou're fresh out ofcollege, do what over 1 miUion students have done. .Take Kaplan. Why takel
·a chance with your· career? 

KAPLAN 
5TANI£Y H. KAPlAN EDlJCAAONAl c;e-.mR LTD 
The world& leading test prep organization. SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 48837 
(211)'272-4135 

~~----------~~ -------~~ 
Wednesday, November 13, 1985-page 4
The Observer 


These students have suroived the perils ofcheck­marked courses and have made it to their final des­tination: Stepan Center. It will be slightly more crowded there today, however, as sophomores at-



Heart patient undergoes tests 

Associated Press Monday. Doctors hadn't released cal and occupational therapy for any information on either set, she several months to help overcome 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Artificial heart said. the lingering disabilities. patient William Schroeder under­The 53-year-old federal retiree Meanwhile, implant recipient went a pair of CAT scans as doctors was returned to his specially Murray Haydon has shaken a slight tried to identify what caused him to equipped apartment across the fever and continues to recuperate in become lethargic during the street from the hospital after each his coronary care room, Hazle said weekend, a hospital spokeswoman test, Hazle said. He receives 24-hour in a tape-recorded update on his said Monday. nursing care. condition. 
Schroeder, who has suffered Schroeder showed "symptoms of strokes twice since receiving his lethargy" when he arrived at the Haydon, 59, uses a respirator Jarvik-7 mechanical pump Nov. 25, hospital Sunday, Hazle said. every other hour he is awake, she was taken to Humana Hospital Since his first stroke, which oc­sal d. Audubon late Sunday night for the curred Dec. 13, Schroeder has suf­The retired Louisville autoworker first of the computer enhanced X­fered memory loss, has been weak received his pump on Feb. 1 7 and rays, said Donna Hazle, the hospital's and has had trouble speaking. The has been confined to the coronary director ofpublic relations. second stroke occurred in early care unit for all but two weeks since 
The second tests were performed May. He has been undergoing physi-then. 


Blind man with two black belts uses karate to fend offmugger 

Associated Press "I wasn't really paying attention to Frightened, he attacked the man. where I was going, I must have been "I just acted on instinct," Carter 
DAYfONA BEACH, Fla. -A blind daydreaming, and took a couple of said. "I elbowed him in the chest and man with two black belts in martial wrong turns ... and was lost," said went to hit him in the groin area. arts said Monday he used karate Carter, who uses a red-tipped white Then he turned around and hit me." chops to fend offa mugger who tried cane. He hit the mugger in the throat to rob him of $1. As he was trying to find his way and the man fell to the ground, 
"He might have thought a blind back to the Florida Rehabilitation choking. person was an easy target, but I Center for the Blind, where he lives, wasn't an easy target," said Todd he was approached by a man who 

"I just took off and never knew I Alan Carter, 18. demanded $1 from him. could run so fast," Carter said. He 
Carter, blinded from a gunshot "He asked me if I had any money asked a motorist for help and wound last November, said he had to borrow and I said no. Then he returned to the center. rarely used his karate expertise until nudged me from behind and wanted Carter has been practicing karate Sunday, when he gave the would-be to know ifI had any money he could since he was 7 years old and has a attacker a big surprise. take," said Carter, who was carrying second-degree black belt in the 
He said he was walking home $15 in cash and wearing a gold chain Japanese-style karate known as yos­from the Daytona Mall at 8:45 p.m. at the time of the attempted mug­hika and a first-degree black belt in when the incident occurred. ging. ju-jitsu. 
Observer Production Staff 



WE APPRECIATE YOU!! 
Many thanks to: 
Carey Gels, Accent layout Jane Anne Riedford, design editor Mariel Labrador, Accent Iayout Tom Small, design editor Melissa Warnke, Viewpoint layout Andi Schnuck, design editor Carol Brown, Viewpoint layout (and columnist) Maureen Murphy, design editor Maria Groner, Viewpoint layout Beth Conway, design assistant 
Melinda Murphy, Viewpoint layout Tracy Schindele, design assistant Jamie Joyce, layout staff Kathleen Huston, design assistant Laura Gronek, layout staff Alice Kroeger, design assistant Rob Bartolo, layout staff Melissa Warnke, design assistant John O'Neil, layout staff Ellyn Mastako, Accent layout Alex Peltzer, Irish Extra design editor Karen Webb, Accent layout 
And those fearless production leaders ••. 
Philip H. Wolf, Assistant in charge of supplies (and newly ordained copy deity) Mark Me Laughlin, assistant in charge of special pages AND design editor John A. Mennell, production manager 
the few, the proud, the production department 

Hudson's 'lover' sues actor­for giving him AIDS disease 
Associated Press ecutor. Hudson's secretary and an 
unspecified number ofdoctors. 
LOS ANGELES-A man who says The suit said Hudson and Chris­he was Rock Hudson's lover filed a tian "became lovers in March 1983 $10 million lawsuit yesterday charg­and thereafter continued a social ing that the late actor, doctors and and sexual relationship with each ot­two other people conspired to hide her." the fact that Hudson had AIDS. The suit alleged that when Hud­
In the suit and in a separate SI 0 son learned he had AIDS about june 
million claim illed against Hudson's 8, 1984, he did not tell Christian and estate, Marc Christian, 31, said he is hid the fact from him until July 23, living in "extreme fear that at any 1985. moment he will receive a death sen­The suit said Hudson, 59, who tence" by learning that he con­died Oct. 2, told Christian his ex­tracted acquired immune deficiency treme weight loss was the result of syndrome from the actor. deliberate dieting, exercise and 
"It is probable that claimant has anorexia. 
contracted AIDS from Hudson, and Mitchelson said that Christian has as a consequence, will incur medical been tested for AIDS and does not expenses to prolong claimant's life know yet whether he has the and make his inevitable death as disease. painless as possible,'' said the claim There is no known cure for AIDS, illed by celebrity attorney Marvin a disease that cripples the body's Mitchelson. immune system and leaves its vic­
Mitchelson said the separate ac­tims vulnerable to infections and ot­tions were filed because the claim, her diseases, in~luding rare cancers. not actually a lawsuit, requires 10 Researchers believe AIDS can be days of waiting time before the spread through sexual contact, con­estate accepts or rejects it. taminated needles and blood trans­
Meanwhile, Mitchelson filed an fusions, but not by casual contact. It actual lawsuit for bodily injury, men­is is most likely to strike tal suffering and damages for fraud homosexuals, abusers of injectable and deceit against the estate's ex-drugs and hemophiliacs. 
r 
.~IRELAND 
\!1!1 PROGRAM 
Information Meeting 



TONIGHT 
6:30p.m. 
at 3~4 Haggar College Center SMC 
Everyone Welcome 


Congratulations "Adworks" on being adopted by Leo Burnett, Inc.! 
You're doing a fantastic job 
THE NOTRE DAM-E ADVERTISING NETWORK All students interested in any aspect of rnarketin~ are invited to join the Adworks team. We need artists, account executives. and anyone interested in working hard and learning a lot. 
WE WANT TO MAKE YOUR NEXT EVENT OR SERVICE A SUCCESS . .. 
. . . so call us at 239-7668, or visit us at the student government offices, third floor, LaFortune Student Center. Our office hours are (rom 3:00 to 5:00p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, or by appointment. And remember . .. 
ADVERTISING -IT WORKS! 


The Observer 
Wednesday, November 13, 1985-page 5 


Banking's future 
Saint Mary's student Barbara Blanchette listens II sponsored by Saint Mary's student government, 
to adr,ice from Valley American Bank and more than a few students got an idea oftheir representattr'e Will Shroyer. More than a few com­future careers. fumies were represenated at the Car;nival ofCareers 
Coffee drinkers face three times greater risk of heart problems 
Associated Pre!l8 
BALTIMORE · A person who drinks five or more cups of coffee a day ha.~ an almost three times greater risk of having heart problems than a non-coffee drinker, ac(.'(m.ling to a study of more than 
1.000 doctors released Monday. 
findings from the study, which tracked 1,1 :\0 white males who graduated from The Johns Hopkins Mt·dical S<:hool here between 194H and 1964, were presented in Was­hington at the 5Hth scientific ses­sions of the American Heart Association. 
Information on drinking habits was obtained from the graduating physicians at five-year intervals for up to 25 years. No information was obtained on whether the type ofcof­fee was caffeinated or decaffeinated. 
A person who drinks at least five cups of coffee daily has a 2.8 times greater risk of having heart problems than the non-drinker, the study found. 
Even when other risk factors · smoking, high-blood pressure, cholesterol levels and age · are con­sidered, the study determined there is still a 2. 5 times increased risk, the researchers reported. 
Other studies into possible links betwc:en coffee consumption and coronary heart disease have resulted in COI[ltradictory findings, said Dr. Thomas Pearson, an associate professor and director of the Johns Hopkins Precursors Study. Some found a link, while others did not. 
Aspokesman for the National Cof­fee Association, Bill Brooks, said l 0 of 12 major studies found no relationship between coffee drink· ing and heart disease. In one of the two studies that did, the findings were later reversed, he said. 
American coffee drinkers consume an average of 3 cups a day, the association said. 

Attention: Nqtre Dame Emplqyees YOU CAN JOIN THE FIRST LOCAL IPA*HMO IN THE 

MICHIANA AREA 
Key




Health Plan 

loo
o/o 
TOTAL HEALTH CARE WITH NO DEDUCliBLES AND MINIMAL COPAYMENTS 
COVERS 
IN FULL 
..,. OFFICE VISITS ..,. ROUTINE CHECK-UPS ..,. PREGNANCIES ,..SURGERIES ..,. HOSPITALIZATIONS ..,. EMERGENCY CARE BOTH IN AND OUT OF AREA ­
WORLDWIDE 
..,. PAP SMEARS 
..,. IMMUNIZATIONS/INOCULATIONS 
KEY HEALTH PlAN 
Wholly Owned by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Indiana 
• 
*Individual Practice Association (you personally choose a privately practicing physician as your health care manager) 
Sweetener linked to seizures 
Associated Press 
BOSTON· A new report suggests that NutraSweet might trigger epilepsy in some susceptible people and recommends that doctors ques· tion seizure victims about their con· sumption of the popular artificial sweetener. 
In a letter in the latest issue of the British journal Lancet, Dr. Richard Wurtman describes three cases in which people had their first epllep· tic seizures after drinking large amounts of soft drinks that con­tained NutraSweet. 
Wurtman theorizes that the sweetener · known generically as aspartame · lowers levels of chemi­cals in the brain that protect against seizures. 
In his letter, Wurtman said the three cases "can only suggest an as­sociation between aspartame and seizures." But he added that they are "compatible with evidence that high 
HPC 
continuedfrom page 1 

Healy added he didn't see any problem in establishing the commit· tee, which would consist of the stu· dent body president, HPC representative to the CLC, judicial coordinator, Student Activities Board chairman, and the five student senators if the proposal is passed in its current form. 
During the meeting, Lawrence an­nounced that Notre Dame is well short ofits goal in fundraising efforts for the United Way. According to Lawrence, the goal was for each stu· dent to average S3 in donations, but contributions thus far are much less than that amount. 
In other business, Junior Jamie Cantorna addressed HPC on efforts 
to  start  a  halfway  house  for  ex·  
offenders  in  South  Bend.  He  ex­ 
plained  that  the house  will  be  

patterned after one established by Vanderbilt University in which stu· dents live with the ex-offenders. 


Change 
continuedfrom page 1 

crease in power for any of the other 
three bodies ofstudent government, 
according to Lawrence. The student 
body president, the HPC, and the 
CLC already exercise the same 
duties, he said. 
"It is not as though the CLC or the HPC will be taking the place of the Student Senate. The duties have aJ. ways been there, they have just been doubled up (with the senate)," Lawrence said. 
Lawrence said that the "student voice" has always been the student body president, as evidenced in the recent jurisdiction controversy con· cerning the Dillon tailgater in Ann Arbor. Lawrence also said that the role of initiating administration policies concerning the students has always been the role ofthe CLC, as it is officially recognized by both the aspartame doses may produce neurochemical changes that, in laboratory animals, are associated with depressed seizure thresholds." 
Officials of G.D. Searle & Co., which makes NutraSweet, said Wurtman's findings were not scien­tifically controlled, and the apparent link could well have been due to chance. 
"We have every confidence in its safety, and our confidence is based on the research," Dr. John Heybach, Searle's director of medica.! and scientific affairs, said of NutraSweet. "It's the most extensively researched food additive prior to its approval in history." 
Wurtman, a physician at Massac­huseus Institute of Technology, has been a frequent critic of aspartame since it was introduced in 1981 as the tabletop sweetener Equal. Now it is used in dozens of products, in· eluding pudding, chewing gum and diet soft drinks. 
Eight students would be needed to live with eight ex-offenders, once the house is established. Ap· proximately S75,000 is still needed by the group in order to begin operation, according to Cantoma. 
Cantorna said a general informa· tiona! meeting will be held Nov. 18 in the Center for Social Concerns at 7p.m. 
Badin Hal.l President Judith Windhorst brought up the issue of University Food Services concession stands during home football weekends. She views the stands as competition for concession stands run by student organizations and halls, who use profits for student use. Healy said the issue is being looked into. 
Senior Mark Herkert, who is seeking to have the University implement courses to promote aJ. coho! awareness, a.lso addressed HPC on his efforts. He told HPC he spoke with Father William Beauc· hamp, assistant to University Presi· dent Father Theodore Hesburgh, who will speak "with the ap­propriate people," according to Herkert. 
Board of Trustees and the ad­
ministration. 

Lawrence added that the allocat· 
ing of the student activities budget 
always has been done by the budget 
committee under the jurisdiction of 
the student body president. 

In a budget dispute earlier this year, the administration ruled in favor of the budget committee over the senate, said Lawrence. 
The final duty of the senate, con· firmation of cabinet positions, which Lawrence said is a "rubber stamp," will be assumC"d by the HPC. 
The senate, in its present form, only has been in existence for five years. The last senate was es­tablished in 1969 and voted itself out ofexistence within three years. 
Although Lawrence and Howard are responsible for the actual amendment, Healy, Student Ac· tivitles Board Manager Lee Brous· sard, and judicial Coordina~or Karen lngwerson also sponsored the amendment. 
·t································~ 
•i Hey Sairlt Mary's! !•i WE NEED YOU! : Be the envy of your friends-: :be an Observer photographer! : 
; For more Information, contact Tess Guarino, ; • Margie Kersten, or Pete Laches for the • : opportunity of a lifetime. Call 239-5313. ; 
·~································~ 

The Observer Wednesday, November 13, 1985-page 6 
16 Argent-ne officers on trial for negligence during Falklands War 
Associated Press 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina -A military prosecutor on Monday accused former armed forces chiefs of negligence in Argentina's humiliating defeat by Britain in the Falklands War and asked that they be given prison terms ofup to 12 years. 
Sixteen army, navy and air force officers are on trial for their part in the war that began April 2, 1982, when Argentina invaded the Falklands, a British colony, and ended 74 days later when British troops recaptured the islands off Ar­gentina's southern coast. 
Air Force Gen. Hector Canale, prosecutor for the Armed Forces Supreme Council, recommended 12-year prison terms for ex­president and former army com­mander Gen. Leopoldo Galtieri and former navy chief, Adm. Jorge Anaya. He called for an eight-year sentence for the former air force 


Geneva boosts security for summit 
Associated Pre89 
GENEVA -The government an­nounced Monday that 2,000 Swiss soldiers would join 1,400 policemen to beef up security and help ensure that Geneva remains "an island of public peace" during next week's summit meeting between President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. 


LaFortune 
continued/rom page 1 
tion problems because of the age of the building," Neal said. "For in­stance, they had trouble pulling up the flooring in the basement be­cause there were so many layers of it.u 
Neal said the dust and noise have been an inconvenience but they were an expected part ofthe renova­tion. The biggest inconvenience, she said, has been for the Student Ac­tivities Board because ofthe student groups and businesses that had to be shut down or relocated. 
Shananigans had to be moved into the Scholastic office and Right to Life was moved into the Student Govern­ment offices. 
The Dome's darkroom had to be moved to the Fitzpatrick Hall of En­gineering and the Morrissey Loan Fund has been temporarily rel­ocated to the third floor of the Ad­ministration Building. 
Some of the inconveniences caused by the renovation are already being felt by the student businesses. 
Irish Gardens had to move its entrance to the south side of the building. According to Irish Gardens manager, Cathy Snakard, "At first we had less business because people 
-NOTICE­MEN&WOMEN 
17-62 
TRAIN NOW FOR CIVIL SERVICE EXAMS 
No High School Necessary Positions Start As High As $9·22 HOUR 
• POST OFFICE • CLERICAL 
• MECHANICS • INSPECTORS 
KeepPresentJobWitlle~ltfl
AIHomeForOovemmentEx•m• 
Write &Include Phone No. 
National Training Service, Inc. 
P.O.Iqx535 
Cherry Hill, N.J. 01003 chief, Gen. Basilio Lami Dozo. 
They were the three members of the ruling junta of the military governmnent in power at that time. Other recommended sentences in­clude prison terms of three to four years, but not all have been dis­closed. 
Canale's charges marked the start of final arguments in the two-year­old court martial and the first time all 16 defendants sat as a group before the Supreme Council, the na­tion's highest military tribunal. 
Defense Minister Roque Carranza called the proceedings "the most important military trial in Argentine history." 
"It is necessary to establish all responsibility for military conduct" in the war, he told reporters at the army's logistics command headquarters in the northern Palermo district, where the trial is being conducted. 
Reporters and the general public are barred from attending the ses­sions. Some representatives of the Defense Ministry and the commit­tees defending the accused agreed to brief reporters on the proceed­ings .with the condition they not be identified. 

Argentina lost 712 combatants in the war and Britain 255. 
The court martial was initiated in November 1983 on the recom­mendation of a military commission that found the junta led Argentina into war "when it was not prepared for a confrontation of such charac­teristics." 
It also accused military leaders of "incomplete and defective plan­ning" and of "failing to take advantage of concrete (diplomatic) opportunities for an honorable and feasible solution to the conflict." 
The military ruled Argentina from a coup in 1976 until December 1983, when the elected civilian government of President Raul Alfon­sin took office. 
French AIDS patient dies despite new treatment 
Associated Press 

PARIS -A french doctor who helped develop a new treatment for AIDS announced Monday that one of his patients had died, but he said the experimental program has shown great promise and is being expanded. 
Dr. Philippe Even of the Laen­nec Hospital in Paris . said the patient, a 38-year-old French male homosexual, died Saturday. The man "had suffered from full blown AIDS for at least a year," and first underwent experimen­tal treatment with the drug 

cyclosporine three weeks ago, · Even said in a telephone inter­
view. 

He described the man as "a 
desperate case" and said his 
death had not been unexpected, 
given the advanced stage of the 
the· case and the patient's mul­
tiple infections. 

Even and fellow researchers 
Dr. Jean-Marie Andrieu and Dr. 
Alain Venet announced at a news 
conference Oct. 29 that 
cyclospodne had proved ef­
fective in fighting AIDS, or ac­
quired immune deficiency 
syndrome. 


CLqRKTELE
COtvlMUNICATIONS, INC. 
71% LESS  7t% LESS  7t% LESS  
THAN AT&I't  THAN AT&T'1  fHAH AT&T'I  
DAYTIME IATES HERE'SHOW: • Powerful English langua~ commands mana~c data for over 1.000.000• users. ComeSee a Demonstration Toda)'. -1 •395.oolt-----:A5-;::;mo-=~~~~N=w~-.­Specializing in computer software, hardware and books. Mon. thru Fri. 10-5 Sat. 12-5 277-5026 Aohton-Tate loa trademark ofAahton-Tate. dBue Ills a reglalered trademark of Aohton-tate.  EVENING IATES  NIGHTTIME RATES  

LESS COST -Clark Telecommunication rates are 7Y•% below Af& Trates all the time. 7V.% below daytime, evening and nighttime rates. 
LESS HASSLE -Because Clark itemizes your billing for each individual. there is no mora figuring out your roommate's calls. 
LESS NOISE -Clark long distance is clear, quality communications. No -more strange interference, funny noises, dead air, or low volume with Clark. 
LESS RUNAROUND-Because Clark was chosen by the Administration of the University of Notre Dame to handle long distance service for students, we have an on-campus service representative to answer questions and respond to problems right away. 


your voice counts . . . Call today to start saving on a// your long distance services, or see our ON-CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE In room G911n the Memorial library. 283-4150 
1/!!!!. CLqAKTELE
. W COMMUNICATIONS, INC 
211 West Washington Suite 1700 South Bend, IN 46601 
State police director Guy Fon­tanet said border and airspace con­trols in will be tightened and that soldiers are under orders to shoot at any trespasser not stopping on first warning. 
Gen. Henri Butty, who is in charge of the army troops, said 15 light tanks with light combat weaponry would be deployed for the summit. 
didn't know where we were, so we had to put up signs." 
Snakard said that Irish Gardens will be moving again at the end of the semester to where the Interna­

1639 N. Ironwood Drive South Bend 
Soldiers from German-speaking Switzerland also are getting a crash course in French, focusing on these four words: "halte ou je tire" (Halt or I shoot). 
Police C.hief Fontanet, who asked citizens for understanding and patience during the summit, said, "We want to ensure that Geneva will remain an island ofpublic peace." 
In addition, he said, "Due to all the new businesses that will be moving into the basement, they want to lock it up earlier instead ofhaving people study down there." 






Accent 

Moreau unmasked 
MARY BERGER 
features writer 
Ever heard ofa "Come as your favorite 
sinner or sin" party? What about one with 
Jim jones, Kool-Aid, Faustus and choc­
olate cake, in attendance? 
Where do you think such an event 
could be found? Dillon? Farley? 
Think again. This time about Moreau 
Seminary. 
You know the place. It's that concrete 
fortress across St. joseph's Lake with the 
immense steel cross in front ofit and all 
the locked doors that this reporter found 
great difficulty penetrating. 
It is also the place some 72 seminarians 
studying to become priests of the Holy 
Cross Order call home. 
Mike Tomsovic ofChicago is a col­
lt:giate thc:re in his third year of under­
graduate study. "I was taught by priests of 
the congregation of Holy Cross in high 
school," he explained. "I'd like to return 
to my high school and teach English." 
jim Skypeck, a candidate at Moreau 
earning undergraduate philosophy hours 
was called to the cloth ever earlier. "I 
developed the concept of becoming a 
priest in elementary school," said 
Skypeck. "I was attracted to the Holy 
(:ross congregation by its diversity of 
mission and sense ofcommunity. I would 
~omcday like to be a retreat coordinator 
or be involved with college chaplancy." 
The men living at Moreau arc either in 
their second year of undergraduate study 
or in one of the phases that follows receiv­
ing IH undergraduate credit hours in 
philosophy. First-year undergraduate 
students in the program live in the Old 
Collegt·. 
Onc might think that the men living at 
Moreau Seminary would feel lonely, or 
alienated from the rest of the NOtre Dame 

community a.~ a resulr of the seminary's 
hx:ation. Tomsovic and Skypeck are quick 
to contradict. 
"We are encouraged to be involved 
with both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's so 

we arc notloncly," said Tomsovic. "We 
arc cncouragcd to bring our friends to our 
anivitics here." 
Tomsovic has certainly answered his calling to a social life. He plays both clarinet and bass clarinet and is a member of the marching band, the concert band, and "other various musical ensembles." He is also the editor of the band's newspaper. 
All of the seminarians are required to do some social work for which they are not paid. This service is called an apost­olate and is worked into the men's daily schedules. 
There are various ways the men offer their services. Tomsovic has been a Sunday schooltt•acher and ha.~ played basketball with handicapped children. "I lndergraduates are encouraged to work through the Center for Social Concerns," he added. 
The Moreau community ha.~ various at:tivitir~ to promote fellowsrln 1'1'l!lolf thesell'" 1.1ri:m~ accordin11. • Skypcck "We ha\ morning and evcOIII)' prayer and daily mass. We eat our meals together and must do the dishes once a week" There are also other household chores which the students complete together. 
In addition to these daily duties, there arc weekly events for the seminarians and !heir guests "just to be together" said Skypeck. 
"Every Thursday we have a soiree," he explained. "We have a mass, a rather good dinner, and evening prayer. The soiree then follows until the last person leaves." The costume party previously mentioned was the soiree on Halloween night. 
"I think there is more ofa sense of community here than in a dorm," said Tomsovic." 
Life in the seminary is different from 

living in a dorm in other ways, too. 
"All ofour rooms are singles. We don't have parietals. We do have 'house obediences,'" explained Tomsovic. "We also have better food," Skypeck added. 
House obediences are the household chores the men are required to do, of which there are four types. The social commission is in charge of keeping the recreation rooms clean. Keeping the cars running and taking care ofthe kitchen are the stewardship commission's respon­sibility. The mission and education com­missions take care ofthe library and seminar rooms, while the prayer commis­sion keeps the chapel clean and the pews polished, among other things. 
"We are encour­aged to be involved with both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's so we are not lonely." 
"The building is a seminary ofyes­
teryear, though," one seminarian said. "It 
wa.~ built so that every sound can be heard 
by everyone, including snoring." 
"Even though we don't have anything 
like parietals, we have respect for others," 
explained Skyspeck. "Because sound does 
travel so much and guys are studying or 
trying to sleep, we'll go to one ofour 
rec-rooms or the dining room ifwe have 
friends over." 
Overall, the men living in Moreau don't seem to feel isolated from the rest ofthe Notre Dame community. They have their fun and they have their goals. "We have a real community within this house," said Skyspeck, summing it up. 
Wednesday, November 13, 1985-page 7 

Seminary. 


Be the first to know as a writer 
1 
for the Accent Section of 
l 
Help us open up issues, analyze trends, review campus entertainment and interview celebrities -or write humor columns! I 
1 
There will be a meeting for all those Interested 
~ 
Thursday night at 7 In the Observer office. 
For more Information contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-5313 
l 


~ii~~~_4CJt____ii][lltt
_______________________________w_e_d_n.es.d.ay•'•N•o.v.em--b.er--13_,_1_9_85_.-P•a•g•e..8 
Ticket dilemma shows how students are treated 

I walked into my apartment the other day and was startled to find my roommate sprawled out on the couch, his rear end propped up on five pillows and an ice bag placed gingerly across his nose. 
Mike Wilkins 

here, there and back 
"Skip a car payment?" I quizzed. 
"Worse. I went to the ACC." 
"Football players on a rampage again?" 
"No, I went to the basketball stadium." 

"I heard Digger has been pushing the boys pretty hard." 
"I wouldn't know, I couldn't tell from where I was. I went to the ACC to check out our seats for basketball season, you know, just to see ifthey were as bad as we really thought they were." 
"And?" 

"Well, I walked up into the bleachers and found our seats and sat down and started watching practice, but Icouldn't see anything. Tim Kempton looked like he was one foot tall and David Rivers just looked like a fly buzzing all over the place." 
"Pretty bad, eh?" "That's just the beginning. I went to get up out ofmy seat and I, well, 1..." "You didn't fall off of the bleachers did you?" I asked disgustedly. "No. I got splinters in my butt." 
I laughed, but the humor of the situation seemed to escape him. 
"It's not funny. I mean it, I went to get out of my seat and I got these splinters in my tail. It hurts like crazy. I want my padded seat back." 
"What happened to your nose, scrape it on the rafters?" "No, while I was up there I got a nosebleed. Must have been the altitude." 
"Get serious." 

"This is serious. This is our fifth year here and we finally have a chance to see a truly gifted basketball team. And where are we sit­ting? In the bleachers. We won't be able to tell the difference between Barlow's baseline jumpers and Royal's slam dunks. Something is wrong here." 
"But they ran out of student tickets in the padded seats. Then they ran out of student tickets period." 
"Well, that's a crock. You would think after following that team for four years, we would get a better treatment. I mean, I went to all those games -games against teams that sounded, and played, more like they were a large dorm than a small college. Now I get a chance to see a true national contender and I am not even close enough to tell what color we are wearing." 
"Come on, the seats can't be that bad." 
"The point isn't how bad the seats are, the 
point is that we should not be punished just 
because we already have our degree and have 
decided to come back here for more school. 
The Double Domers should be getting first 
pick of tickets. We should at least be sitting with the seniors instead of with the sop­homores. We've paid our dues. We've backed the team for four years. Our butts deserve padded seats. Besides, we won't be able to see Stupid Cheerleader Tricks." 
"Just be glad you're not a freshman. Some of the freshman didn't get tickets at all." 
"That's even worse. It just goes to show where the students rank around here: some­where between the alumni and the pond scum -and I thinkwe are closer to being in the pond than being in the padded seats. 
"So what are you going to do?" 

"I'm going to clean my binoculars, pack my nose with cotton and stuff a pillow down the back ofmy pants. And ifthat doesn't work, I'm going to go down and sit in Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski's seat. And I'm going to bring about 200 freshmen with me. He took our seats, the least he can do is give us his." 
"Great idea. Think it will work?" 

"Sure. We'll call it the Pond Scum Section. Even if we don't get to sit there, at least they won't have to change the name." 
Mike Wilkins is a Notre Dame law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 



Theatre going holds many advantages over movies 
When you are looking for something to do on a weekend night, how often have you con­sidered going to the theatre? If you are like most people, you probably have not given it much thought. And that is really unfortunate, foe the theatre can be a great experience. 
William Wilson 

the word most mangled 
It is really quite strange how people who give no second thought to going to see a movie will not even begin to consider going to see a play. What is the basis for their prejudice against theatre? 
Everyone should support their local theatre organization, and there are many ways to do this. The most obvious and simplest is to at­tend performances. While I don't mean to take anything away from movies, there are many things about the theatre that make attending a play worthwhile. For one, theatre offers a live performance with real people. This can be quite exciting. Going to see a show with a date and saying to him or her that you know the person onstage is quite impressive. You might even be surprised and see one ofyour friends onstage, which would explain why he or she seemed to disappear for a few hours each night for several weeks. In addition, how many people can go to a movie and honestly say they know Harrison Ford or Clint Eastwood? 
One ofthe most exciting things about a live performance is the ability of the audience to look for things other than what is going on in 
...t\ijU~NJ~ 
COM?lHE
~~oct 
GONTI~U 

r 
r r 
r 
r 
~ 
I 
I 
r I Doonesbury 

r 
~ 
f r 

the spotlight. In a movie, we can see only what the director wants us to see. But in the theatre, we can look at different things and look at the whole play from a different perspective. In ad­dition, the audience has the ability to affect the performance and make the performance strong or weak. This cannot be done while viewing a movie. 
Most people think the theatre is too "heavy." This is not true. While many plays have some strong message, they are at the same time funny, sad and very entertaining. One need only look at the recent production of "End of the World" by Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre to know that this statement is true. 
And not every play has some deep social message. Many have been written for simple entertainment. In fact, nearly every play has just as much potential for entertainment as a movie. And let us not forget many plays have become movies, such as "Amadeus." Some people feel they don't want to go see ·a play because they know nothing about it. Yet people will still spend four dollars to go see a movie they know little about. All one needs to do is to ask someone what the play is about. We are lucky here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's because we can easily call up the box office or the theatre department and ask about the show. 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre is only one of the many local theatre organizations we will encounter in our lifetimes. When we go home over the summer, we can find at least one theatre ~n up in our hometowns which would love our .,upport. 
Another w:w ~o support your local theatre is to become involved in working on a production. Anyone who has done this can tell you that 1l is au experience unlike any ot-
Garry Trudeau 

her -to work for several weeks and turn out a product that sparkles is a great feeling. If you think there is a Dustin Hoffman inside you bursting to get out, tryout for a role in a per­formance. One does not need to worry about the leading role; there are several supporting roles which are just as important. If you are not an actor, there are many other things which you can do: one can work on lights, sound, stage crew, set construction; the list is endless. 
But attending performances is the best way to support your local theatre group. You don't need to get dressed up to go, unless you are going to see a show on Broadway, and even here dressing up is not a requirement. But for most ofus, we can wear to a play exactly what we would wear to a movie. And at the same time, one can get dressed up and go to dinner before the show, making for a great evening. The price usually is not that large of a factor either. Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre usually charges four dollars for a play which is less than or equal to the cost of one movie admission. ­
So the next time you are looking for some­thing to do, why not try a play? During the rest of the year, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre is putting on productions, all ofwhich should be great. Forget any bad experiences you have had with high school drama. To find out more about these productions, call the theatre department at your school. And don't forget to support your local theatre groups when you go home over semester break or for the summer. They too will be offering excellent entertainment worth your while. 
William Wilson is a sophomore Arts and Letters major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columist. 
Quote of the day 
"Don't oppose forces; use them. God is a verb, not a noun." 

R. BuckminsterFuller 
(1895-1983) The New Yorker,]an. 8, 1966 
"ie~P--O_i~n~t~----------~----------------------------W~e~d~ne~s~d~ay~,~N~o~ve~m~b~e~r-1~3~,1~9~8~5--~p~ag~e~9 
I ___________



P_.O_._B_ox_Q__________~ 
Women priests will be 
necessary in the future 
Dear Editor: 
Terry K.ibeltis' article In the Nov. 11 Obser­ver was very thought-provoking. Though I do not profess to he a "woman's-llbber", I agree that the Catholic Church should reconsider its position on the Issue of woman as priests. In this day and age, when the number of priests and seminarians Is rapidly declining, I believe women priests will be a necessity for the Church to survive. I have no doubt that the ability of women to be priests is as good, or even better, than many men. Ifthe Catholic Church truly wants the best for Its followers, then it should allow the priesthood to be open to all. The old traditions of the Church are beautiful in many ways, yet through Vatican II and other such reform movements, they must be changed for, the good of the people. After all, the Church Is the people of God. Contrary to the belief of many, the people of God are !loth men and women. 
Dan Gerlach Planner Hall 

Student thanks friends who helped in bad time 
/Jear Editor: 
In August of 19H3. I entered the University of Notre Dame. Driving up Notre Dame Avenue, I was awed by the sight of the Dome, and by all the people coming to school. But the thing that impressed me most was the way the uppercla.~smen attempted to help the freshmen make a smooth tram;ition into col­lege life. 
This spirit and kindness best exemplified it­self to me this past week. On Monday, Nov. 4, my sister Joan committed suicide. It is a tragedy when a 17-year-old dies, and it seems even more so when it Is someone in your own family. 
The spoken words, the flowers, and the cards were all greatly appreciated. The list of people who displayed such kindness is too long to name everyone, but I would like thank two people in pi,U"ticular. To Father Edward "Monk" Malloy goes my deepest thanks. He had the unenviable position of being the per­son to tell me what had happened, and was a great comfort. And to Pam Butler goes my love. She will never know how much joy I felt when she walked Into the church. 
So to all of those in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community, I extend my thanks to all of you who helped me through this difficult time. 
Tim Hillenbrand SorinHall 

University has acted to defeat own objectives 
Dear Editor: 
I would like the readers ofThe Observer to reflect on the following statements regarding the recent actions of the University against two parietals violators. 
Any community which overtly seeks to stimulate the essentially positive and com­munal aspects of human beings in its society, which seeks to promote the expression of compassion among Its people in an effort to Increase cohesion, and which prepares legislation to achieve these tenets, must do so In a just and cautiously reflective manner. 
Christian communities strive to achieve thesr goals. Notre Damr strives to realize these goals as a Christian community; however. the University recently has acted in a manner counter-productive w these goals. 
The University has told two students to 
temporarily leave the University because one 
student was promoting and exercising com­
passion by consoling a fellow student. The 
University ignored the intentions of the stu­
dents and parochially looked only at the inad­
vertent violation of parletals regulations. In 
addition, the social ramifications ofa parietals 
violation can, unfortunately, be slanderous. 
Anyone of authority, from the security 
guard to Associate Vice President for 
Residence Life John Goldrick, from Vice Presi­
dent of Student Affairs Father David lryson to 
University President Father Theodore Hes­
burgh, who had any chance to exercise under­
standing in the situation, failed to do so, and in 
a manner counter-productive to the cohesive 
and compassionate ideals for which a Chris­
tian community strives. 
In an effort to enforce a rule which the Uni­
versity validly deems constructive and 
positive, it has alienated many students and 
faculty through Its ignorant and unreflective 
actions against those students involved. 
The University had the compassion and in­
telligence to judge the intentions of the stu­
dents as honest and innocent. The University 
failed to employ compassion and intelligence 
in Its ultimate decision. The University has not 
acted as a cohesion-seeking authority. It has 
rather made abominable the very notions of 
compassion and understanding. 
Therefore, the University should reverse its 
judgment and reverse its actions against the 
students. A constructive and compassionate 
community should not remove its law 
violators, it should act rather to rectify the 
situation; and in this case, the violation was 
unintentional and completely unharmful. 
The University should learn from those it 
has dismissed in this case what it means to be 
compassionate. It should apologize to the stu­
dents and faculty in order to regain the 
ground it has lost be alienating itself, and so 
learn the importance of reconciliation. 
Patrick A. Manson Notre Damc1 Student 

Blumb should 'get clue' before hurting morale 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to talk about a couple ofthings pertaining to Notre Dame football. First, I want to say Tom Galloway's article was good. You students who booed Steve Beuerlein at the Navy game are total zeros. He is a Notre Dame player -you should be ashamed ofyour­selves. 
Second, I would like to comment on Jeff Blumb's article about facts and whatever else on Nov. l. I understand that The Observer is an independent newspaper and their reporters have the freedom to write what they want, but get a clue guy. I am not disputing any ofthe facts, that is not the point. The. point is that you are bringing down Notre Dame morale. People are aware of your facts and your efforts are negatively affecting fans. You keep saying that the Irish could possibly go undefeated the rest of the season, but that Is very unlikely. Duh. So what are you saying to the players and students, "Get ready for a loss"? Sure, going undefeated is not easy -its not easy for anybody. We have got a good thing going, why do you have to tiy and ruin It? I don't think criticizing Gerry Faust in the middle of the season benefits Notre Dame football and fans. 
Although The Observer is independent, I wish the sports people would be positive about Notre Dame football. Don't coat your articles with candy, but don't do it with salt either. Build on our positive points. Increase student morale. The power of positive think­ing does wonders -unlike telling somebody they are not very good or they are just lucky or wait till next year. The Notre Dame football 
The Observer-~ 
P. 0. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper publ1shed by the students of the Un1versity of Notre Dame duLac and Sa1nt Mary"s College. It does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es of the admtn1stra11on of e1ther 1nSt1lut1on. The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible Uns1gned eclitonals represent the op1mon of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commen· tanes. leMers and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space IS ava1lable to all members of the commun1ty and the tree expressiOn of vary1ng op1mons on campus. through leMers. IS encouraged. 
team has been positively thinking for the last 
month · look at the results! 
FACT · Notre Dame has won their last 4 
games. 
FACT · Nobody has come within 14 points 
of us in our last 4 games. 
FACT-We have been executing better and 
playing with more intensity this past month. 
OPINION -Notre Dame will continue to 
play well, finish 8-3 and top it off with a big 
bowl win. 
GO IRISH! 
john Byrne Notre Dame student 

Open house sponsored by student government 
Dear Editor: 
To students, faculty members and ad­ministrators: 
On Thursday Nov. 14 at 4 p.m. student government will be sponsoring an open house, open forum. We will be open to all questions, comments, and suggestions. In at­tendance will be student senators, executive coordinators, Adworks personnel and the stu­dent body president, vice president and the treasurer. 
We hope you will take a few minutes to bring your concerns and qurstions over to the 2nd floor, LaFortune Student Center on Thursday. We will be serving refreshments and answering all questions until 6 p.m. We look forward to seeing you on Thursday. 
William]. Healy Student bodypresident Duane S. Lawrence Student body vice president 

Cancel of referendum in students' best interest 
DearEditor: 
urely, headlines have blared the negative word "postponed" in reference to the nesottatlons and work being done within the Hall Presidents' Council. The word does not accurately reflect the activity and has caused the HPC to fall victim to condensed press coverage. 
The postponement was not a result ofa loss of the two-thirds majority needed to send the proposal to the student body. It was done as an act of concern for the governmental structure and the opinions ofthe student, not as a result of the Inadequacy of the HPC. Wit­hin this action may also exist the effort to avoid the creation of a senate as a campaign tool to be promised and abolished every few years. The conflicting views within HPC which have arisen during negotiations have 
made the membel'!l a'WlU'C of the rough transi­
tion they would face under the proposc:d 
amendment -that of establishing HPC as an 
increasingly political body, rather than a 
single voice within the political structure. 
Such a realization is good cause for alarm. 
Top priority in the minds of the hall presi­
dents Is the respect of their constituents. To 
lose this would be to lose the effectiveness for 
which they strive. No other elected student 
body better represents the frustrations, satis­
factions, motivations, concerns, and spirit of 
the Notre Dame student. It Is a prlviledge 
which they respect and do not want to 
jeop~dlze at any cost. Have faith In the deci­
sions ofthe HPC. 
No document or organization will ever be 
flawless. No hasty action will ever be free from 
reconsideration. The price of a belabored 
reconsideration is too h.igh to pay when the 
effects of a carefully considered decision can 
be enjoyed within a reasonably short period 
oftime. 
Kathy McCarthy Breen-Pbtllips Hall President 

Students did not treat Hickey with politeness 
DearEditor: . 
William Hickey, the director of Univel'!lity 
Food Services, calls the Night Oak Cafe "more 
of a headache than anything else." I would 
have said unhesitatingly "Right on," except 
that more annoying to him must be the man­
ner Kurt Weidmann, The Observer, and ot­
hers went about having the "Night Oak Open" 
sign removed. 
Sure, the sign looks tacky over the entrance 
to a gothic-romantic style hall. However, 
couldn't protestors have gone politely to 
Hickey fil'!lt? How about judging h.is motiva­
tion as selfish pride or profit? How about a few 
words of appreclation for a director and staff 
that have worked in an unselfish and un­
heralded manner to turn around the manifold 
aspects of University Food Service? How 
about some sensitivity and gratitude from the 
people who prattle so much about their per­
sonal and social concern? 
Tom Curtin Notre Dame student 

Record reviews seemed like very bad dreams 
DearEditor: 
Please tell me that the record reviews of Thursday, Nov. 7 were all just a bad dream. 
Gordon Maclachlan FtsberHa/1 


Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief .............................Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Lipo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief ................. ~ ........................ Philip H. Wolf 

Operations Board 
Bus mess Manager... ..... Dav1d Stephenttch Controller... .... Wilham J. H1ghducheck Advertlsmg Manager .. . ........ Jim Hagan Systems Manager ....... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager.. .... John A. Mennen 
Found~d November 3, 1966 

The Observer Wednesday, November 13, 1985-page 10 


Sports Briefs 
NVA campus all-nighter entry forms must be NVA basketball officials are needed for co-ree 
submitted today to the NVA office in the ACC or to the Angela Ath· basketball, men's and women's interhall, and club basketball. For letic Facility. For more information call239·6100. ·The Observer more information call the NVA office. · The Observer 
The ND Weightand Fitness Club will spon·
The ND Rowing Club will hold a meeting for both sor a bench press competition on Sunday, Dec. 8 at a time and loca­varsity and novice tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 123 ofthe Nieuwland tion to be announced. Sign-ups are being taken in the third floorScience Building. All members should attend. For more information weight room of the Rockne Memorial Building, and any member ofcall Patricia Warth at 283·2900 or Mike Songer at 283-4108.. The the ND/SMC community is welcome. For more information call Pat 
Observer 

Browne at 283-2056. ·The Observer NVAteam turkeyshootreservations must be sub­
Racquetball enthusiasts who are looking for
mitted bytomorrow to the NVA office in the ACC. The event will be competition should mail an index card to 308Walsh Hall by Friday,held Nov. 18·19 from 4:30 ·6:00p.m. at the stadium rifle range by Nov. 22, stating· name, address, phone number, skill level, andGate 14. Teams must consist of two men and two women. For more campus court preference. For more information call Michele·information call the NVA. · The Observer Debrey at 283-4526. ·The Observer 
ND Women's Track Club practices will begin NVA Century Club is a program to promote in· 
l 
Monday. Those running 800-meter and/or longer distances should dividual exercise and fitness. Applicants select an exercise and 
l 
meet at the main circle at 4:30 p.m.. Those running 400-meter or pledge a personal fitness goal. When the applicant reaches his/her shorter distances, as well as those in field events, should meet at the goal, a free Club T-shirt will be given out. To fill out a pledge card or ACC track dome at 5 p.m.. For more information call Mary Beth at to get more information call the !'IIVA office. · The Observer 277·1983 or Nancy at 283-4222. ·The Observer 
t 
NVA fitness focus newsletter is published 
monthly and is available through campus mail at no expense. To beWVFI Sports will broadcast the Notre Dame-Penn State placed on the mailing list call NVA at 239·5100. ·The Observerfootball game on Saturday, beginning with "The Irish Today" at 2:50 
p.m. Pete Pranica and Kelly Brothers will handle the play· by-play on NVA information is available by calling 239-61 oo orWVFI, AM-64. ·The Observer by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC. · The Observer 
The ACC hockeyrinkis now available for interhall Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday 
hockey practice. Individual dormitories may reserve late evening through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ice time for one hour at a rate of $50 per session. For more informa­ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the tion call Tom Carroll between the hours of 1 p.m.. and 4 p.m. at office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person 239·5227. ·The. Observer submitting it. · The Observer 
AP Top Twenty The Top Twenty college football teams in The As· 
sociated Press poll, with firal·ptace votes in paren· theses, this seuon'a recorda and total points. Points baaed on 20.19-18·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
are italicized. 

1. Penn State (44) 9-D-0 1,143 2. Nebraska (9) 8·1-Q 1,083 3. Ohio State (2) 8·1·0 1,021 
4. Air Force (2) 10·0.0 941 
5. Iowa 8-1-Q 905 6. Miami 8-1-0 891 7. Oklahoma (2) 6-1-Q 883 
8. Michigan 1·1·1 744 
9. Arkansas 8·1-Q 662 10. Oklahoma St 7-1-Q 646 11. Florida 7·1·1 5n 12. Georgia 7·1-1 548 13. UCLA 7-1-1 494 14. Auburn 7-2-o 436 15. Florida St 7-2-o 323 16. Brigham Young 8-2-o 238 17. Baylor 1·2-Q 225 18. Tennessea 5-1·2 204 
19. LSU 5·1·1 172 
20. Alabama 6-2·1 82 
Irish 
continuedjrompoge 16 

they exhibited why they are nation­ally ranked. 
With the loss, Notre Dame's record drops to 10·17, while the Boilermakers' victory gives them a 26-3 mark. 
Throughout the game Purdue played with the confidence ofa team with 25 wins against an opponent that is still trying to build a com­petitive program. They were very confident, almost cocky · and with reason. 
Statistically, they beat the Irish in almost every category. Purdue had six service aces to the lone Irish ace, set at at .500 compared to Notre Dame's .284. 
lht· (JI"•'rtl'' '\olrc.· ().Ullt 11lt1lt luc.Jtl'd 1111 the !111nl ll•H·f "' l.d"rlliiH "t udc.·nt ( l'flll'f .h. l c.·p1' l l.l''llinl .tt.h tTll,lll).: fft •Ill l1 .1 111 11111 Jl f p Ill \1t !llll.t\ lhf1H1gh I nd.I\ I Jw r ,,,_.,-, er ....nrll \1.tn '• ,tfh l' lt•l Jlcd 1111 thl' thnd tlc 11 'f c1! ll.t~~..tr < 11lkgc.· < cntc.·r Jllt:pl'•l.l.h'tfic.:d,fr•nn 1.! ~11 p m tllllll ~ p 111 \1t,n dJ\ th•1ugh I ndJ\ I kJdlml· for nc:'\t dJ\ ( l,t,,lflc.·d, '' ~ p rt1 \II ll..t..-.lfin.h 11111,1 tw prep..tld.c.HIH r 111 pc.T..,IIIltlf In fll.Id < h..trgl' '' ltlc.c.·nr...pc.·rtl\c.·c.lur.tc.





Classifieds 
ItT' )(."f dJ\ 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 

....................... TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81117 
PRO-TYPE Over 15 y...,. exp. Specializ· ing in atudent papera, taw papera. dis­sertationtl, resumes. 2n-5833 
S1o-AIO WEEKLY/UP IIIAJUNG CIRCULARS! NO QUOTAS! IIN­CEREL Y INTERESTED RUSH SELF· ADDRIESSED ENVELOPE: SUCCEU, PO BOX 470CEG, WOODSTOCK, IL 
10018. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL liM. COKER, DS-7001. 
BUIINUS EXPRIESS, INC. Wordpr-'1111end typing 272-8827 

EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. 15 YEARS EXP. CALL 287· 5112. 
Professional word proce.ing and typing. Convenient location on N. Ironwood. Call 2n-4220 for appointment. 
IIRYAN ADAMS IS COIIINGI 
in 
THE ROCK·A-LIKE 

THURSDAY, NOV. 14th 8:30P.M., NORTH DINING HALL 
TYPING 
277-41041 

FREE PICKUP I DEUVERY 
THE UNITED WAY ROCK·A.UKE 
IS HERE! 

THURSDAY, 1:30 P.M. STEPAN CENTER 
LOST/FOUND 

LOST • ONE GOLD LOOP EARRING ASOUT 6 WEEKS AGO SOMEWHERE BETWEEN PANGBORN AND REGINA. IF FOUND PLEASE CAll MAUREEN AT 
284-4006. 
LOST: Gold Elgin watch, probably at Senior Bar on Hellowean. Of aentimentlll value· gift from parents for 18th birthday. If found, pleaae call Angela at 272·9623. 
LOST: ONE TOYOTA KEY BETWEEN SENIOR BAR AND CUSHING IF YOU'VE FOUND IT, PLEASE CAll 
2831. 
FOUND: A watch on Sunday morning, 11/10. Call Mart< at 2450 and describe it. 
HELP!! I loet a Kodak diac camera (end valuable pix) at the Riviera Lodge on 10/31. If lound PLEASE return to Nancy x2784. 
LOST!! A PEARL RING WITH GOLD BAND. SOMEWHERI: 11/8. PLEASE PLEASE HELP! CAll CARRIE ROBERTS 113221. 
LOST: BACKPACK, NAVY BLUE· CON· TAINS NORTON'S ANTHO OF POETRY, 1 NOTEBOOK, AND A SPANISH TEXT. NOTES VERY IMPOR· TANT! IF FOUND, PLEASE CAU JIM AT 1607. 
LOST!!! Small navy Coach purae. Con­tains Iota of 10 plus keys' Pleeae call 4203. Sizeable reward offered. 
LOST: GOLD WOMEN'S HIGH SCHOOL CLASS RING,GARNET,'85. INITIALS CAB. LOST AT SMC 11/8/85. REWARD. PLEASE CAll CHERYL AT 284·5091 
LOST: gold A via watch with brown leather band. Pleue call284-4230. 
LOST: A Norton Anthology in O'Shag, probably room 204 after 10:10 ctus, probably Weds. before break. II you found it or uwsomeone pick it up, pleue let me know. Carey, 3700. 
LOST: A GUESS WATCH. LOST IN HAYE5-HEALY RM. 23. IF FOUNO PLEASE CONTACT BRUSH AT 287· 6518. 
FOUND: A SET OF KEYS IN A C.B. JACKET AT SENIOR BAR... YOU MUST HAVE RUN OFF WITH MINE.. CALL ME AT X3489 TO IDEN· TIFY... THANKS A WHOLE LOT 
HELP!!!LOST MY WALLET ON MON· DAY NIGHT(PROBABLY IN LAFORTUNE OR IN THE MAIN LIBRARY). IT IS A NOTRE DAME WAL· LET AND DOES HAVE MY IDENTIFICA· TION IN IT. IF FOUND PLEASE CAll MICHAEL AT 234·7350 (BEST AFTER 
7:00 PM).THANKS! 
FOUND: One atud. tix in the atudent MO­tion during the Miss. game on Sat. 11/9. Ca11Undaat4135 toidantify. 
Found • Pair ol gluaes Jut Wednesday night in front of the CSC. Hu light brown/dear ptaatic frames. Calf x1550 to daim. 
WANTED 

NEED RIDERS TO BOWLING GREEN NOV. 15-17-X1858 
I need rida to PENN STATE. Cal Brian at 2937. 
Wanted : Riders to St. Louis, weakend of 11/15. CaR Mike 288-4650 
FOR SALE 

FOR SALE KENWOOD AM-FM STEREO RECEIVER;SO WATTS/CHANNEL • 2 SETS OF I PIONEER · CAR SPEAKERS;ROUND·INMOUNT· MARKUS 2n-oB40 ANYTIME 
Original French Perfume now avaitable on campus! 3.4 fl. oz. only $18. Imported directly from France. Call 272·5206 bet· wean 6-Bpm and uk lor a product demonstration. 
BLAUPUNKT car stereo, equalizer, power boOster, 4 speakers. powerful equip.· low package deal. 289·4342 evenings. 
TICKETS 
I NEED PENN ST I LSU GAa.272-QO& 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 LSU GA'S.. WIU PAY TOP $$!CALL JOHN AFTER 11PMAT4601. 
NEED 10 PENN STATE TIX (GA OR STDNT) CAll 4434 
NEED 4 LSU GA'S CAULYNN 284·4023 
WANTED FOR A RICH DOCTOR: 8 GAa in blocks ol 2 or more for the LSU game. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Fren at 2687. 
HI, my neme 11 Allele end I want your mudent LSU tlckm. 
$$$$$$ 

Pleue call2687. 
NEEDED I)ESPERATELY: 2 LSU GA"s CALL LAURA 3839 
PENN STATE TIX NEEDED CALL1504 
You sea, my roommate had this girlfriend in Jeraey. She left him lor thia other guy, who now goes to Penn State. My roommate would luuuuuv to sea him. But, soap opera fans, this will not be possible without 4 Penn SUite Ucketa. So call us now at 1373 and uk for BRUTUS. 
Help a senior get his family to the taat NO home football game. I need 6 GA"s and 5 stud. tix. Cell Terry x2045. 
NEED PENN ST. GA'S PLEASE CAll: PHIL:288·4753 DEAN:289-3482 MARK:1897 
DESPERATELY NEED LSU STUDENT TICKETS OR GA'S. CALL TODD OR JOHNAT1073. 
THROW STANFORD 2NS TO THE UONS Sell us your Penn St. Tickets. Calf Pat2056 
PAST LEPRECHAUN NEEDS PENN STATE TICKETS DESPERATELY! CAll LAURIE2795. 
I NEED 2 LSU GA'S. CALL 272-4540 
WANTEDI 2 GA'S TO THE ST. JOE VS. NO BASKETBALL GAME ON FRIDAY NOVEMBER 22. CALL MIKE AT 1173. 
NEED 4 LSU GA'S • CAU LIZ 264-4102 
PERSONALS 
There are no mistakes. The events we bnng upon ourselves, no matter how un­pleuant, IJfe nece.,sary in order to lewn what we need to learn; whatever steps we take, they're neceuary to reach the places we ·ve chosen to go. 
• Richard Bach, The Bridge Acroee Forever 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
EARN $$$ FOR ALL THOSE BOOKS YOU DIDN'T READ!! PANDORA'S WIU BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M·F 11·4. OR WE CAN HELP YOU FIND A USED BOOK FOR A CLASS. WE'RE OPEN M· F 11·6, SAT&SUN 10.5. PANDORA'S IS OPPOSITE CORBY'S ] 937 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
Did AMY GRANT apeak to your heart? .Then THE SPIRITUAL ROCK OF NOTRE DAME is lor you. Join us for fel­lowship Wednesdays 7:00 p.m. in Keanan Chapel. Questions call Tom 
3310, Mike 2338, George 3244. 
.................. . 
SENIOR CLAU SKI TRIP At Boyne 
Mountain Feb. 14-16. SignupsNov. 12·14 
LaForiune Price:$115 $50 NON· 
REFUNDABLE deposit neaded at sign· 
ups LIMITED SPACE! Questions?Senior 
Class Newsletter or call277·1067. 
HUNGRY? Call YEUOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm-12pm Monday· Thursday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm· tam Saturday; and 4pm-tOpm Sun· day. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND ···NEW LOCATION··· 311EAdBidg (by Student Affairs) 
11:30.12:30 M·F 
$2o-200 30 days 1 percent interest 
PITTSBURGH CLUB Thanksgiving Bus: MEETING: Thurs Nov 14 6-7 pm at Little Theatre, LaFortune INFO: Leavea: Wed Nov 27 2:00 pm lrom CCE(ND) & Holy Crosa(SMC) Returns: Sun Dec 1 1:00pm from Greyhound Term. in Pitt. $55 roundtrip, $40 one-way QUESTIONS: CaJIA.J. x1844 
SENIORS MAKE TIME FOR REFLECTION SR.REFLECTION GROUPS SIGN UP AT CSC 
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN LIVE TAPES from all tours for sale.Call2011 for info. 
PSYC CLUB 1ST MEETING. MAJORS & MINORS. 7:30 PM WED. NOV 13. LAFORTUNE AUD. REFRESHMENTS! 
I NEED 1(0R MORE?)CASTRATE PENN STATE T·SHIRT BEFORE I LEAVE FOR GAME ON THURS.CAll CHRIS AT 3810 TO SELL! 
Thea Mllfora: F.ther Flechar _ ... tonight m 10:00 pm In room 341 O'SheughiiM8y 
HELP!NEED ride to Minneapolis for Thanksgiving or Christmas call LeaAnn at 284·5520. 
HOLY CROSS WEEK '85:NOV. t-14 WED. OPEN HOUSE, 3:3o-5PM, THURS. MISS HOLY CROSS CON· TEST, CARROLL HALL: 7PM. COME JOIN THE FUN I 
THANK YOU VERY MUCH ST. JUDE ppc 
HAPPY 20TH, MIKE1 HOPE IT'S JUST SUPER! Now we·re both "over the hill" • ·cept now you're a "man" ! LOVE YOU LOTS· YOUR PRINCESS 
OKCHARUEB. I TRIED TO CALL YOU THE OTHER DAY BECAUSE YOU ARE THE ONLY PERSON WHO WRITES ME BUT YOU WERE IN PIANO LEUONS. SORRY. 
MEGAN IN MEXICO 
Greatinga From The Laundromat ! Hi Shmollean McGillis I'm worn out from ov•uM and 1n need of a weN-deserved vacation. I've made a few alterations in my Jile. You may not recognize me if I ever return. The 
Shmaroon Sweatshirt 
p.s. ·Where the hell is Presque late? 
HEY STRETCH!! HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY, BUDDIE!! HAVE A GREAT BIRTHDAY IN S.L.,YOU VOLLEYBAU QUEEN!! WE HEART YOU BEYOND BELIEF(even though you wear SIZE 69! JAPANESE BUNHUGGERS!!) LOVE, SUEBEE,BROWNBEE,KARENBEE and the rest ot your BUNHUGGER FANCLUB! 
RIDE NEEDED TO JOHN CARROLL U. ON FRI., NOV. 15. SHARE EXPENSES. RENT A CAR? CALL 1041, PLEASE! 
Yw know when you know, and 
I DEFINITELY KNOW!! 
Need two LSU student tix. Call Mary at 1367. 
0 HOLY ST. JUDE APOSTLE I MAR· TYR, GREAT IN VIRTUE I RICH IN MIRACLES, NEAR KINSMAN OF JESUS CHRIST, FAITHFUL INTER­CESSOR OF ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR SPECIAL PATRONAGE IN TIME OF NEED, TO YOU I HAVE RECOURSE FROM THE DEPTH OF MY HEART AND HUMBLY BEG TO WHO GOO HAS GIVEN SUCH GREAT POWER TO COME TO MY PRESENT URGENT PETITION. IN RETURN I PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR NAME KNOWN AND CAUSE YOU TO BE INVOKED. (3 OUR FATHERS, 3 HAIL MARYS, 3 GLORIAS). ST. JUDE PRAY FOR US AND ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR AID. AMEN. wmj. PUBUCATION MUST BE PII()MISED. THIS NOVENA HAS NEVER BEEN KNOWN TO FAIL SAY IT FORt CONSECUTIVE DAYS. 
TO CHRIS Z OF LEMANS WHO WEARS AN AUSTRALIAN FLAG BETTER THAN ANYONE I'VE EVER SEEN: MEETING YOU AND YOUR FRIENDS HAS BEEN A PLEASURE. THANKS FOR A NICE WEEKEND. HOPE IT'S JUST THE BEGINNING. THE LONG ISLANDER 
I really need a RIDE to PENN STATE this weekend. Colleen 3568. 
PK&RZ: Just checkmg to sea if you atill read Jhe Personals. Hooters rule' Love. Your lavonte Philadelphian 
ROOMMATES: Thru thick or thin they Will always be there. Thin crust or thick crust you can always count on them! 
DAVEtheNAZI 
HAPPY B·DAY' 
VE VILL KILL YOU NICHT THE TAK GROUP 
TAKE A BREAK FRESHMEN CHEERS' NOV. 14th AT HAGGAR 8PM·9:30PM 
THE COTTON CLUB THE COTTON CLUB SMC'S FRESHMAN FORMAL NOV. 22nd AT THE AMERICANA 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY WINK!!! LOVE YA, JILL 
THE HOOSIER • ONLY A MEMORY · HOPE YOU FEEL ROTTEN CHRIS!! MJ LIZ LIZ ' 
HI B,ELMO, AND SOOZ'I MUST SPEAK SPANISH! HEY BIG K! I'M A HAPPY GIRL' KICK-BUTT ELM01 J. CREW! PINK HIGH· TOPS AND ZZ! LET'S BOP B! HIYA WOODSTOCK' SHIPPIN' THE COW? SOME HOT CHOCOLATE B? PLEASE 1 NO FUNYUNS TONIGHT! HI TOM HANKS. OOPS. THE KID IS TOO AWS! DAISY COME HOME AND D.R.S.1 THAT ROBITUSSIN'S PRETTY STRONG STUFF! WHO'S THE INSECT? DEATH BEFORE DISCO! KITTY-CAT VITAMIN, BABE? 3 PAGES IN 4 HOURS! LET'S HIT THE HAG1 9:00 SORRY. THE ONLY MACHINE WORKING IN THIS PLACE IS THE VACUUM CLEANER. 
12:00 IT'S A NEW WEEK! HEY WOODSTOCK SOMEONE'S ON THE FIRE ESCAPE. BUT, THE NOSE REMAINS! EL, I'M NOT TIRED AT All' "THAT'S WHAT I LIKE ABOUT YOU" I DON'T WANT MY MTV. 3:30 A.M.· "HELLO, JEFF." YIPPY SKIPPY! LET'S GO SQUIRREL CATCHIN' ELMO' WHICH STEVE IS IT THIS WEEKEND, SOOZ? BESSIE LIVES' YOU MEAN DENNY'S DOESN'T DELIVER? ARFY· Y.M.S.C.I.H.! I ALWAYS KINDA DID HATE MOLES. MR. E.-SAYS WHO? LET A SMILE BE YOUR UMBRELlA, EL. WHAT'S A LITTLE WATER FOR THE IRISH, HUH? B,E,S..I B BLUE WITHOUT YOU! LUV YA FOREVER, T 
NO RESOURCE CENlER IS TOO FAR WHEN CHRISTINE SCHANNE LUSTS FOR CHEESE-M-EGGS!!! 
CHRIS SCHANNE • HAVE YOUR CHANGED YOUR SHEETS YET?? 


The Observer 
Wednesday, November 13, 1985 ·page 11 

Q @ SPORTS WEDNESDAY @ 8 
NHL 
PRINC! OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Adlma Dtvlllon 

W L TQFQAP18. Bolton 10 4 1 66 44 21 Quebec 9 4 1 60 48 19 BuNIIIo 9 5 1 60 43 19 MonlrNI 7 6 2 64 61 16 Hlllford 7 7 0 53 64 14 
P-'rick Dtvlllon Ph1ildelph11 12 2 0 69 39 24 Wuhlngton 8 6 2 65 56 16 
N.Y. llllnde<a 7 5 2 52 52 16 
N.Y. Alnge<l 7 a o se 52 14 N_J.....,y 6 7 1 50 53 13 P1111burgh 4 a 3 so 61 11 
CLAJIIENC! CAIIPaELL CONF!RENCE lmythe Dvlllon 
W L TQFQAPI8 Edmonton 11 3 1 eo s2 23 Vanoouve< 8 6 2 66 62 18 
8 6 67 57 17 Winnipeg 6 8 62 74 13 La.Angelee 3 11 1 51 78 7 
Noma DlviiiiOn St. Loutl !:, 6 3 47 55 13 ChiCIQO 5 g 1 58 70 11 Ml,_. 4 7 3 156 156 11 DetrOit 28442788 Toronto 1 12 2 45 86 4 
~ 
.._....,.,........... 
Wlllh•ngton 5. Edmonton 3 
MontrM13, N.Y.IIIilndera 2 
St. Loull4, Toronto3 (OT) 
NBA 
~Coni­
AIIIIntlc Dlvllllon 
W L Pet. Bolton 6 1 .857 ~-y 6 4 600 Philadelph11 4 4 .500 Wuhu>gton 2 6 .250 ~York 1 8 .111 
c-tr111 Dlvlelon O.Uot 7 3 .700 MilweukM 7 4 636 ChiCigO 4 5 .4« Alllnta 4 5 .4« lndlllll 2 4 333 Cleveillnd 3 6 .333
·-Coni­
111..-Divlelon 
W L Pel. Houlton 7 2 .778 Denv• 6 2 750
San""'""'" 
5 4 .556 

Utah 4 5 .444 
Dellu 2 6 .250 Secramento 2 6 .250 
Padllc Dlvlllon L.A.l.1k.. 7 1 .875 Porlllnd a 2 .800 L.A. Cllpp.. 5 3 825 Goldin State 5 5 500 S.llll 3 6 .333 Phoenl• o a .0 
~Night'I ll..ulta Detr011124, Wuh1ngton 122 (OT) New York 103, Phoer111 83 Mlt-ukee132. Ch1cego 103 Houlton 127, Denve< 119 LA Lal<e<a 118. Utah 110 
Golden Sllte 127. L.A. Cilppe<~ 115 Porlllnd 126. S.cramento 115 Seattle 109. Dllltal80 Tonlght'l a.m.. indienell Bolton Chicego It Philadelphia PhOIIWI at Adlnta Detroit II Milwaukee DeltaleiUtah Seattle at L.A. Chooen 
Q8 
1.5 2.5 4.5 
6 
.5 
2.5 2.5 
3 
3.5 
Q8 
.5 1.5 
2.5 
4 4 
2 3 
4.5 7 

lnterhall Football Playoff Pairings 
Quarterfl nals Flanner 8, Stanford 7 Alumni 12, Howard 10 
Semifinals Sunday' a r•ulta Alumni 7, Sarin 0 Flanner 6, Grace, 0 
Championship Game Sunday, Nov. 23 (Notre Dame Stadium) Flanner vs. Alumni, 1 p.m. 
NFL 

NATIONAL FOOTaAU. LUGUE NATIONAL CONFEMNCIE 
,... 

W L T Pet. PI' PA o.lu 7 3 0 .700 220 153 N.Y.Gianta 7 3 0 .700 227 170 Philldelphia 5 5 0 .500 158 162 Wlllhington 5 5 0 .500 165 181 St. Louie 4 6 0 .400 186 232 
c-trlll 

Chicego 10 0 01.000 2711 127 Minneaota 5 5 0 .500 200 207 Detroit 5 5 0 .500 173 220 Green Bay 4 6 0 .400 1111 233 T1mpaB1y 1 II 0 .100 200 272 
2 0 .800 210 151
8 ·­

5 5 0 .500 244 184 N-Ofleane 3 7 0 .300 176 262 Alllnta 1 9 0 .100 188 307 
AIIE~CANCONFERIENCIE 
e. 

W L T Pel. PF PA N-England 7 3 0 . 700 207 ,171 
N.Y. Jeta 7 3 0 .700 225 156 Mllml 6 4 0 .600 241 211 lndlllllpolll 3 7 0 .300 167 238 BuNIIIo 2 8 0 .200 141 216 
CentrW Cincinnati 5 5 0 .500 287 288 Pi111burgh 5 5 0 .500 2111 181 Cleveillnd 4 6 0 .400 160 1511 Houlton 4 8 0 .400 162 205 
Denve< 7 ·-3 0 .700 238 187 Sea111e 6 4 0 .600 248 205 
L.A. Aeode<a 6 4 0 .500 230 227 Sen D1ego 5 5 0 .500 260 265 KaneuCity 3 7 0 .300 199 240 
Suncllr'ao.­ChiCIIQOIIO­BuNIIIo 11 Clevellnd Tampa Bey 11 N.Y. Jeta L.A. Aeme II Adenta M11mi atlndienepolia New Ofleana 11 Green Bey (M1Iweukee) P1ttlburgh at Houeton Philldelphll 11 St. Louie Sen Diego 11 Denve< Minneaota 11 Detroit New Englarid at Seattle Cincinnati II L.A. Alidera Kanau City 11 Sen Fnanciaco llondly'eo.­N.Y. G11n11at Wuhington 
Saint Mary's lnterhall Flag Football Playoff Pairings 
Semifinals Sunday' a r•uh Holy Cross 13, LeMans 0 
Championship Game Sunday's game (Madeleva Field) Holy Cross vs. McCandless, 3 p.m. 
lnterhall Soccer Playoff Pairings (doubl•ellmination) 
.Firat Round Holy Cross 3, Dillon 2 (OT) Stanford 1 , Flanner 0 Off-Campus 2, St. Ed's 0 Alumni 6, Grace 5 (shootout) 
Second Round Winner's Bracket Stanford 1, Holy Cross 0 Off-Campus 5, Alumni 3 
-(shootout) 

Loaer's Bracket ·Fianner 3, Dillon 0 St. Ed's 2, Grace 0 (Dillon, Grace eliminated) 
COLLEGE TOP 20 
The Top Twenty colege baakelbllt teama in The Auociated p,... pol, with li,.l·ptace votee in parentheae•.thia aeuon'a recorda and total points. Pointe baaed on 20-111-18·17 etc. Notre Dame 
opponents are italicized. 
1. Ge. Tech (28) ().() 1192 
2. No. Cwoli,. (13) ().() 1148 
3. Michigen (13) ().() 1141 4. Synacu1e ().() 836 5. Kaneu(4) ().() 821 6. Duke(2) o-o 911 
7. INinoia (1) 0·0 847 8. Georgetown (1) o-o 824 
9. 
Louiavlle ().() 687 

10. 
Auburn ().() 670 


Third Round Loser's Bracket Thursday's raauh Flanner 2, St. Ed's 0 (St. Ed's eliminated) 
Thursday's reauH Holy Cross 2, Alumni 1 (Alumni eliminated) 
Fourth Round Winner' a Bracket Thursday' a result Off-Campus 1, Stanford 0 
Fifth Round Loser's Bracket Sunday' a reauh Holy Cross 3, Flanner 2 (OT) (Fianner eliminated) 
11. Kentucky ().() 471 12. N-.DM1e(1) ().() 411 13. Oklahoma ().() 350 14. LSU ().() 323 15. Memphie State ().() 2112 
16. 
UAB ().() 270 

17. 
North Carolina St.().() 266 

18. 
UNLV ().() 182 


18. Mwygnd ().() 153 
20. Navy ().() 153 
~PfltJS·S9ND· 
Sixth Round Loser's Bracket Lat Night's raeuh Stanford 1 , Holy Cross 0 (Holy Cross eliminated) 
Seventh Round Tomorrow's game (cartler Field) Off•Campus vs. Stanford, 7 p.m. 
Eighth Round Sunday, Nov.17(1f necMUrY) (Stepan Fields) Off-Campus vs. Stanford, 2 p.m. 

Exdtlng and Challenging Career Opportunities 
Master of Business Administration 
A small. highly selective MBA program has been designed by The Ohio State University to prov1de professional management education to students with nonbusiness academtc backgrounds. This two-year full-time program 
• 
facilitates a high level of student and faculty-student interaction 

• 
has no prerequisite course work 

• 
is especially attractive to students with liberal arts. scientific, and other nonbusiness backgrounds 

• 
is bu1lt upon a lightly integrated study of foundation management tools and concepts 

• offers the opportunity to concentrate in one or two management fields through elective course work 

• 
is offered by one of the top 25 schools of management in the country and is accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business 


last year's graduates were very successful in finding career opportunities. Examples of positions they selected include the following: 
• 
assistant to the chief executive officer. Mtdland Mutual Life 

• 
field marketing manager. Ford Motor Company 


• 
management trainee with an international assignment. Chase Manhattan Bank 

• 
assistant product manager. Pillsbury 

• 
financial analyst. Hewlett Packard 

• 
inventory control manager. IBM Corporation 

• 
account executive, Merrill lynch 

• 
consultant. Price Waterhouse 

• 
management trainee with an international 


assignment. Procter and Gamble For a brochure describing this program and application information. please contact: 
Director, MBA Progr•ms The Ohio State Unlv.nlty 112 H...-rtJ Hall 1775 College RcNicl Colum...... OH 4J21G-1J99 614-422-8511 

The Ohio State University 
SUNSHINE PRDMDTIDN PRESENTS: 
JOHN COUGAR MELLENCAMP THE SCARECROW TOUR 
Saturday, Nav•mb•r tli, 8:DDpm Natr• Dam• R.C.C. Rlla•ata r•••rv•dI t4.BD 
tickets available at the ACC Box Office, area Sears, Robertson'•, Elkart Truth J.R.'t Muelc Shop (La Porte), St. Joeeph Bank (Main Office) Record World (G08hen) and Muelc Maglc(Benton Harbor) 


Michigan will be one of Midwest's toughest 
Assoclatcd Press 
Michigan Coach Bill Frieder, who perhaps has the best college basket­ball team in the Midwest and maybe in the nation, gets skittish when talk turns to Top Twenty rankings. 
"You're not going to get me to talk about the ratings. They're nice for the fans and all that, but I'm not going to get caught up in it," he said. "The nice thing about our sport is that it's all decided in March and then there's no doubt who's No.1." 
The Wolverines were Big Ten Conference champions and ranked second nationally at the end of last season. They had a 26-4 record and won 1 7 games in a row losing to Vil­lanova, the eventual NCAA cham­pion. 
This season, they return all five starters. 
There's no weakness in a lineup that boasts 6-foot-11 senior Roy Tarpley, the Big Ten's most valuable player, at center, and guards Gary Grant and AntoineJoubert. 
Add 6-7 freshman Glen Rice, Mic­
higan's high school"Mr. Basketball," 
to that group and Frieder's only fear 
is that his players might be 
overcome with their own celebrity. 
"That's my biggest concern," he 
said. "These kids have got to go out 
and win it on the floor. They can't be 
affected by what they read in the 
papers or hear on television." 
The Big Ten sent a league record 
six teams into the NCAA tourna­
ment, but Illinois, 26-9, was the only 
team to do well, before losing in the 
Eastern Regional semifinals to Geor­
gia Tech. Coach Lou Henson has 
four of his five starters back, includ­
ing stellar guards Bruce Douglas and 
Canadiens score 3-2 win over Islanders 
Associated Press 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. Rookies 
Stephane Richer and Kjell Dahlin 
scored a goal apiece and rookie 
Patrick Roy kicked out 26 shots 
Tuesday night to lead the Montreal 
Canadiens to a 3-2 National Hockey 
League victory over the New York 
Islanders. 
Richer scored the only goal of the 
first period and Dahlin connected in 
the second to give the Canadiens a 
2-0 lead. Roy made the lead stand up 
with some sharp saves in goal as 
Montreal extended its .unbeaten 
streak to five games ( 3·0· 2 ). The vic­
tory also snapped New York's four­
game unbeaten streak. 
Richer scored his ninth goal ofthe 
season when he knocked in a 
rebound, following a shot by Chris 
Nilan, from the side of the net at 
12:08 of the first period. 
Dahlin scored off a neat pass from Guy Carbonneau from in front ofthe net at 12:57 of the second period. The goal was the eighth of the season by Dahlin. 
Pat Flatley's seventh goal of the season off a rebound ofhis own shot from inside the faceoff circle at the 
15:07 mark of the second period trimmed Montreal's lead to a goal. 
But Chris Chelios made it 3-1 on a wrist shot from inside the blue line on a power play at 5:42 of the final period. 
John Tonelli scored his sixth goal of the season on a power play, with 3 7 seconds left in the game after the Islanders had pulled goalie Billy Smith. Mike Bossy and Bryan Trot­tier got a'isists. 
AMERICAN CANCER 
SOCIETY~ 

Doug Altenberger, a pair of red­shirred 7-footers on the wing and promising freshman Lowell Hamil­ton. 
Iowa, 21-11, replaces departed twin towers Greg Stokes and Mic­hael Payne with 7-0 redshirt Brad Lohaus. Coach George Raveling has to solve the Hawkeyes' late-season slides. Getting increased production from starting guards Andre Banks andJeff Moe could be the key. 
Indiana, which suffered through Coach Bobby Knight's first losing season in the 1984-85 conference, is the darkhorse. But the picture is brightened with Olympian Steve Al­ford having one more year of ex­perience, and the additions ofjunior college transfer Andre Harris and freshman Ricky Calloway. 
Poll on page 10 
Notre Dame, led by sophomore point guard David Rivers, likely will be the highest-ranked of the Mid­west's strong independents. 
But Coach Joey Meyer's DePaul team, better adjusted to its young coach and stronger with 6-9 forward Dallas Comegys, figures to push the Irish for that distinction. 
Notre Dame could be better than last season, when the Irish were 21­9, but a schedule that includes North Carolina, Duke, Louisiana State, In· diana and DePaul home-and-home might mask the improvement. 
A lack of outside shooting hurt DePaul last season. Freshman Rod­ney Strickland could cushion the loss of point guard Kenny Patterson and solve the outside shootingwoes. 
., 

r 
The Observer Wednesday, November 13, 1985-page 12 

.._. Faculty, students, and the public are invited 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------~--~~~~~~ 
AP Photo 
University of Kentucky bead basketball coach to keep the Wildcats winning with his "Three D's of Eddie Sutton gives instruction to forward Winston success, Dedication, Discipline, and Defense." Bennett(25) dut"ing a recent practice. Sutton hopes 
ND ranked 12th in preseason poll 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-Georgia Tech's No. 1 ranking in The Associated Press preseason college ba.Sketball poll is a double-edged sword because "a tremendous amount of pressure" comes with the recognition, Yellow Jackets Coach Bobby Cremins said Tuesday. 
Georgia Tech got 28 first-place votes and 1,192 points from the nationwide panel of 63 sports writers and broadcasters to edge North Carolina for the top spot. Georgia Tech beat the Tar Heels 57­54 in the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament championship game last season. 
Notre Dame, tht~ only indepen· dent in the Top Tw<enty, was one of 


130 U.S. 31 North 1 Mile North of Campus 
r---~~~~~~;t_____J 1 Monday 1·Wednesday I Sunday 1 I I I
I

1 14". 1 item I 16", 1 item 18", 1 item 1
I $5.951 $7.95 I $9.95! 
L 
Call before~ I Cali before 11 I Call !:>efore 9:30 1 I 
----~--------..-~-----' 
NOTRE DAME pre~sents: 
.............•........................,.......•......
,.................................................... 
JOSEPH HOLMES DANCE THEATRE 
·======ssssssss:ss:san::::::::::::::: 
Premiere Chicago Group's First Area Appearance 
SAT., NOV. 16-8P.M. 
Washington Hall-Notre Dame Campus 
Sponsored by: The Student Activities Boord Cultural Arts Commission Arou~d the Corner Club The Block Cultural Arts Council 
seven teams to receive first-place votes. The Irish finished 12th and received one vote for the top spot. 
Georgia Tech and North Carolina were among five ACC teams placed in the Top Twenty. In third place was Michigan, one of two Big Ten teams in the Top Ten. 
The Tar Heels got 13 first-place votes and 1, 148 points. Michigan had 13 first-place votes and 1,141 points. 
The No. 4 team was Syracuse, one oftwo Big East teams in the Top Ten, with 936 points. No. 5 was Kansas, with four first-place votes and 921 points. 
The ACC's Duke got two first· place votes and 911 points for the sixth-place ranking, and Illinois of 
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION The O'Neil Lecture Series 
f)A\/11""\ II=Wit\1 
' · ' ' 't ' ... _ ~ • ... c I • : , 
David Lewin is Professor of Business, Director of the Business School Ph. D. Program, and Director of the Industrial Relations Research Center at Columbia University. The Author of four books and numerous articles in scholarly and professional journals, Professor Lewin has also recently completed papers on "Conflict Resolution In the Nonunion High Technology Firm," 1"he National Labor Relations Act at 50: A Research Appraisal and Agenda," "Public Employee Unionism and Labor Relations In the 1980's: An Analysis ofTransformation," and -rhe Effects of Divesture on Bargaining Structure at A.T.&T. 
At Columbia, ProfHt~or 1PWin tPII("hn rour11es In human resource management, laboorelatlono and reioearch methndoln both the M.B.A. and Ph.D. l'rograms. He Is also 1-aculty Utrector of the L.olmbla Executive Program, Managing theEnterprloe, and of the Columbia-IBM Personnel Institute. He sen:f·; a& a consultent to lndustry,labor. and government. 
T"!li<.:  "Tho l\bti"na! (;thor Relations Act at 50"  
Dale·  Thursday. No·:c'Tibcr !1. !4~!=\  
Time and Place:  ~  

!2:15p.m. Faculty Seminar Boa!d Koom, Hayes-HI:'aly 
Ali members ojthe University ofNotre Dame Faculty are Invited 4:15p.n•. , 1ec1uft1 ana panel discussion, Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Room 122) 
.......... 
TJCkets. SS NDISMC sft.dents S8 General ft£tnissia1 
...................................... 
the Big Ten got one first-place vote and 847 points for seventh place. 
Georgetown of the Big East, last year's national runner-up, got one first-place vote and 824 points for eighth; No. 9 Louisville of the Metro Conference had 687; and Auburn of the Southeastern ConfereRce rounded out the Top Ten with 670. 
Last year's national champion, Vil­lanova, was not ranked, nor was St. John's, a fellow Big East school and Final Four participant. Both teams lost several key players to gradua­tion. 
Georgetown has been in the NCAA championship game three of the last four years, but now faces life without star center Patrick Ewing. The Hoyas were the top team in last year's preseason poll and held that spot for all but five ~l'l'k: 

The Observer 
Wednesday, November 13, 1985 -page 1 3 

Eras01us Books 1027 E. Wayne Tues ·Sun, noon . 6 I block south of Jefferson & Eddy Ueed A: -•of prlat boob bo••llt. eold, •••n:laed  

ro\(1; ~ ·······················: 
.~\~\:~:e ROCK·A·LIKE i 
~\. .,... : 
• Lip sync contest? • : You can still enter your group! 
i 
: Drop by the Student Activities Board offices 1•
i 
on the second floor of Lafortune. 
• Remember:
•: Rehearsal Tuesday, NOV 12, 7 pm, + + Chataqua Ballroom + : Dress Rehaersal Wednesday, NOV 13, 7 pm + 
+ Stepan Center : 
THERE'S 
AN ARMY OF CHOICES 
It's not eas) Sometimes the numh.-r ofchokes vou have seems mmd-bo~glmg Bu1 sometimes. when vou know what you want, freedom of choice is a Rreat thin~ Look at today 's Army 
There's the Active Armv and the Army Reserve If you quahh for Acuve. vou serve 2·4 years. choose from over 300 skills to tram 1n. and in over 80 of those sk11ls you could be eli~1hle for up tO $25,200 in colle~e monev 
OUT THERE. 
If you already have a job or are in school. consider the Armv Res~n·e All it takes is one weekend a month and two weeks a year Plus, you'lllearn a useful skill and earn over !1.200 a year 
Both choices give you career experience, physical wnditioning, new friends, good pay, and a chance to serve your country It's all up to you Call your local Army Recruiter. 
SERGEANT LANE 234-4187 
ARMY. 

BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 



ODHOVS 
STUD€f\JT GOV8RNm8Ni OPrtces 
THUR. NOV..14th 4PM-6PM 
2ND FLOOR  La FOrtune  
QuESTIONS..  ANsWERED  BY:  
STUDENT  BODY  PRESIDENT  

STUDENT BODY VICE PRES I DENT STUDENT BODY TREASUER STUDENT SEN-ATORS HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL CHAIR MAN 
JUDICIAL COORDINATOR OMBUDSMAN· ADWORKS PERSONNEL 
l?~w:dtk~ 
ALL THOSE INTERESTED IN 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ARE 
INVITED 

S111.aT ......_.... • S,...lll' ACTIVInU aOAIID -.L M 1 I ..,. COUIICIL • n. Cl ASSES 

Kansas City Royals pitcher Bret Saberbagen sbows bis style in tbe seventh game of the World Series against tbe St. Louis Cardinals on October 
Saberhagen outdistances Guidry to claim A.L. Cy Young Award 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CllY, Mo. · Bret Saber· hagen, who won two games for Kansas City in the Royals' World Series victory over the St. Louis Car­dinals, Monday became the youngest pitcher in American League history to win the Cy Young Award. 
"This is great for me and great for Kansas City," the 21-year-old right· hander said at a news conference. 
Saberhagen, only three years out of high school in southern Califor· nia, was .earlier named the World Series' Most Valuable Player. 
In his second year in the major leagues, Saberhagen posted a 20-6 record with an ERA of 2.87. With remarkable control and poise and sharp command of several pitches, he had 158 strikeouts and issued only 38 walks. 
"An award like this is definitely a team .award," he said. "If you don't have 25 guys fighting for you every time you go out there, then you don't lllave a chance." 
Saberhagen's wife, Janeane, gave birth to their first child, Drew Wil· liam, the day before Saberhagen pitched the Royals' 11·0 victory over St. Louis in the seventh game of the World Series. He admitted with a laugh that he may have trouble top· ping his storybook season next year. 
"I guess all I can do is try to win 21 games, win three World Series games and have twins," he said with a laugh. 
Saberhagen admitted that he was surprised at his big margin ofvictory in voting by members ofthe Baseball Writers Association of America. He was named on 27 of 28 ballots and received 23 first-place votes, gather· ing 127 points to 88 for runner-up Ron Guidry of the New York Yankees. 
John Schuerholz, Royals general manager, appeared with Saberhagen at the news conference and ad· mitted, "The success we've had this year is almost hard to comprehend." 
"None of it would have been pos· sible without a lot of hard working and dedicated players like Bret Saberhagen. We're very proud of him," Schuerholz said. 
The right-hander said he planned ~o work hard in the off-season and come back a better pitcher next year. 
"My curveball and my slider aren't where I want them to be," he said. "There's always room for improve· ment. Maybe I can put on a few pounds and throw the ball a little harder next year." 
Saberhagen is the first Kansas City pitcher to win the award and only the fifth from the American League West. Saberhagen, who turned 21 on April 11, was the fifth youngest pitcher in major league history to win 20 games. 
Guidry was the only pitcher named on all 28 ballots· two writers from each of the AL's 14 cities. Saberhagen was not selected by Ray Sons ofthe Chicago Sun-Times, who had Minnesota's Bert Blyleven first, Royals reliever Dan Quisenberry second and Guidry third. 
Saberhagen was the Royals' ace, leading Kansas City's charge to the AL west title, the American League pennant and World Series. He pitched complete games to win the third and seventh games of the Series, though his postseason ac· hievements did not figure In the voting, which was conducted prior to the playoffs. 
At one point, Saberhagen won seven consecutive decisions and had another five-game winning streak. 
As a rookie In 1984, Saberhagen was 10·11. 
Guidry, who won the award in 1978, was 22·6 with a 3.27 ERA, two shutouts in 11 complete games and 143 strikeouts in 259 innings this year. 
Guidry, 35, rebounded from the worst season ofhis nine-year career · he was 10·11 in 1984 ·to help the Yankees finish second in the AL East. He won six of his last seven starts and had a streak In which he won 12 straight decisions. 
Blyleven, the league's strikeout leader with 206, was third with 9 points. He was a combined 17·16 ith a 3. 16 ERA for Cleveland and the Twins, to whom he was traded in August. Blyleven had one first-place vote and four for third. 
Points were awarded on a 5· 3·1 basis. 
Others receiving votes were Quisenberry, Charlie Leibrandt of Kansas City, Doyle Alexander of Toronto, Britt Burns of Chicago, reliever Donnie Moore ofCalifornia, Toronto's Dave Stieb, and Mike Moore ofSeattle. 

Christian's two goals spark Caps past Oilers 
his 14th of the season. 
Christian got the first of his short· handed goals at 2:30 of the third period, while the Capitals were a man short. Before the penalty · expired, Wayne Gretzky again reduced the lead to a single goal, at 
•
3:00. 
Washington regained its two-goal margin when Bob Carpenter scored a power-play goal at 10:50 of the period, assisted by Haworth and Greg Adams. 

Associated Press 
LANDOVER, MD. · Dave Christian scored two short-handed goals and Alan Haworth had a goal and an as· sist to power the Washington Capi· tals to a 5·2 National Hockey league victory over the Edmonton Oilers before a sellout crowd Tuesday night. 
Haworth scored his 1lth goal of the season at 2:09 ofthe first period, extending his NHL-leading 
consecutive-game goal-scoring streak to nine, a club record. The 8-6·2 Capitals never lost that lead. 
Mike Gartner got his lith goal of the year at 1 0: 1 2 of the opening period when Washington was a man down. The three short-handed goals broke a 10-year·old Washington club record. 
Glenn Anderson brought the 11· 3·1 Oilers to within a goal at 4:55 of the second period when he scored 

The Observer 
Wednesday, November 13, 1985 -page 14 

Experienced offensive tackle 

Perrino anchors veteran Irish line 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's Mike Perrino is a 
perfect example of a veteran player, 
whose poise and knowledge of the 
game can a decisive factor in the 
final outcome. A strong tackle, Per­
rino is part of an all senior starting 
offensive line, which has been 
playing together for the last few 
years. 
Experience can be the difference 
between winning and losing. It is the 
experienced athlete, such as Per-

Mike Perrino 

·rino, who plays best under pressure and is able to make the most of his ability, taking advantage of the op­ponent's weaknesses. 
And with this of{esive line, familiarity has not bred discontent, but rather, development of the players as a group. Perrino said he believes that the offensive front five have a distinct advantage over younger players in the crucial situa­tions. 
"We're a tight group, having played together the last few years. We work really well together," ex­plains Perrino. "In the presssure situations, we don't get flustered. When's it's fourth-and-two, we feel that's what we're here for, to get the job done." 
The Elmhurst, Ill. resident has, indeed, been getting the job done during his career at Notre Dame. Perrino has played in 32 games, 28 of which he has started. Head of­fensive line coach Carl Selmer said he is confident of the abilities of the starting strong tackle. 
"He's big and strong and a very good pass. blocker. He's a smart player, who makes split second deci­sions at a very difficult position. He makes very quick adjustments, when the circumstances call for them," says Selmer. 
Besides beingan outstandingfoot­ball player at York High School, the 6-5, 278 lb. senior was also an im­pressive wrestler. As a high school junior, Perrino was 31-4 and set a school record with 1 7 pins. He won the Illinois Wrestling Federation heavyweight title and also finished fifth in the U.S. Wrestling Federation, a natonal meet. 
Rather than risk injury, the highly recruited Perrrino did not compete in wrestling in his senior in high school year,but said that his football skills have benefitted from wres­tling. 

Lindbergh dead after tragic auto accident 
Asllodated Press 
STRATFORD, N.J.-The parents of hockey star Pelle Lindbergh said their goodbyes to their brain-dead son Tuesday after giving doctors permission to remove his organs for transplant donations. 
Philadelphia Flyers team physician Edward Viner said that the org&ns probably would be removed "within the next 24 hours" but that Undbergh's elderly parents wanted more time with their only son before allowing the operation to begin. 
"Privately, they must hope there could be a miracle ... but they're anxious not to lose the potential of helping others," Viner said of the family's decision to donate Lindbergh's vital organs. 
"From a purely medical point of view, he's been dead since 5:40a.m. Sunday," said Viner, who described Undbergh's existence as "a state of semi-living." 
Sigge Lindbergh flew from Sweden Monday to his son's bedside, where the goaltender's mother, Anna-Lisa, and fiance, Kerstin Pietzsch, have kept a vigil since the accident. 
Lindbergh, 26, was legally drunk when he left an after-hours bar and drove his red Porsche 930 into a concrete wall in front ofa Somerdale elementary school, authorities said. 

Free agents negotiate 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Major league baseball's largest group of free agents had the opportunity to negotiate with any team starting Tuesday amid indications that club owners will hold the line on big salaries and long-term contracts. 
Eleven players beat the Monday 
midnight deadline, bringing the to­
taJ to 63, the biggest number to file 
since the process began in 1976. 
As part of new labor contract 
reached in August, this marks the 
first year that players do not have to 
go through a re-entry draft, which 
limited each free agent's dealings to 
13 teams. 
Such teams as the Kansas City 
Royals, Texas Rangers, Cleveland In­
dians, Philadelphia Phillies, Los An­
geles Dodgers, Montreal Expos, 
Chicago Cubs, Houston Astros and 
even the New York Yankees, to a 
smaller degree, have claimed they 
presently have no plans to enter the 
free agent market. 
The last 1 1 players to file included 
Hal McRae, veteran designated hit­
ter for the world champion Royals, 
and infielder Bobby Grieb ofCalifor­
nia. The others were infielders 
Dickie Thon ofHouston, Tony Perez of Cincinnati, Ivan Dejesus of St. Louis, Indians outfielder Benny Ayala, and pitchers Bruce Kison of Boston, Bart johnson of the White Sox, Marty Bystrom of the Yankees, Mike Norris and Tommy john of Oakland. 
The biggest prize is slugging out­fielder Kirk Gibson, who made S68S,OOO last season and opted for free agency when the Tigers offered him a three-year deal. 
Don Fehr, acting executive direc­tor of the Major League Players As­sociation, said he is wary about the owners adopting a tougher policy on free agents. · 
"There's a new (free agent) sys­tem in effect now, and it's too early to tell if'the owners are attempting to destroy it," he said. 
George Steinbrenner, the Yankees owner, said, "This isn't collusion or anything remotely like that. It's just a matter of everybody getting dis­gusted with the way they've been conducting business, and I'm as guilty as anyone." 
Dick Balderson, Mariners' vice president, said he isn't impressed by the available free agents this year. 
"The quality out there is not the quality there was last year or in the past," he said. 
"Wrestling was a lot of fun, but I 
knew my future was in football. It 
did help, though, for body control 
and my physical development. It 
also gave me a sens,e of balance," 
noted Perrino. 
On most teams, offc!nsive linemen 
receive little credit for their efforts 
but at Notre Dame, Perrino said that 
linemen are more appreciated. He 
also said that the success of Allen 
Pinckett brings some personal satis­
faction. 
"At Notre Dame, almost everyoqe 
is in the spotlight. Also, blocking for 
Allen the last three years, I hope thitt 
I'm partly responsible for his success 
and that I've helped him achieve his 
records. Not everyone notices, but I 
know what I have done," explained 
Perrino. 
The economics major has his sights set on Penn State this week as the Irish prepare to meet the number-one ranked team. Perrino said that the Nittany Lions must be wary ofplaying Notre Dame. 
"This is what Notre Dame is 
known for, knocking offthe number­
one teams. This is the bread-and­
butter of our season. We must play our game like we did last year. 
"I can't believe they have im­proved that much and we have got­ten worse. We have also improved a lot. There must be some doubt in their minds because it's basically the same teams as last year," notes Per­rino. 
Notre Dame will be counting on experienced players like Perrino to lead the Irish to vicltOry. 

Mike Perrino stands up a Purdue defensive lineman on a pass play earlier this season. Perrino and tbe rest of tbe experienced Irish offensive line have matured as a unit to provide tailback Al­len Pinkett large boles in recent victories. 


II 
I 
0 
0 

WED.­MIXED DRINIKS! ONLY...$.75 CENTS!!! 
14oz. DRAFTS $.50 CENTS 
Lunch: Beer, Pizze, & Subs!!! Night: $1 Imports! BAND­
MINOR CONDITIOJr(H 

FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1069 239-7521 





T0 day_____________________
w_e_d_n_e_s_d_a_y_.N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_I_3_._1_9_B_s_-_P_a_g._e_I_5 

Bloom County 
Berke Breathed 
Kevin Walsh 
JUST THINKOF.ALLCf= THE MC»JE't' THE"i'LL SAWE. ON PARK 8LVE 

Eventually, Stevie looked up: His mother was nowhere in sight, and this was certainly 


Zeto 
ACROSS 1 Secret group 6 Tractable 
1 0 Cheese choice 14 Stag 15 Neural process 16 Tabu 17 Way to light 19 Hernando de­20 Tennis need 21 N.M. art 
colony 22 Vacationed 
In away 24 Clio or Thalia 25 Rental sign 26 Tennlte or ant 29 City on the 
Oka 30 Pinder product 33 Commotion 34 Fight site 35 A DIMaggio 36 Musical 
conclusion 37 Trapped congers 38 Roger Moore 
role 39 Apply 40 Novices 41 Rhone feeder 42 Soak flax 43 Chow­44 Harding or 
Beatty 45 Take the stump 47 Roof section 48 Gambling spot 50 Wine center 51 Pluto's 
counterpart 
5464 55 Way togo 58 Right-hand man 59 Pound sound 60 Lunarvalley 61 Fr. river 62 Or-! 63 Precipitous 
DOWN 1 Lyricist Sammy 2 To the shel· 
tared side 3 Sea sight 4-howl 5 Moolah 


©1985 Trobune Media Servoces. Inc. All Roghls Reserved 

Tuesday's Solution 
6 Nev. lake  
7 Hatchets  
8 Long-gone bird  
9 Way to measure  
10 Follow  
11 Waytosell  
12 Poker money  
13 Humor  
18 Brewery unit  
23 S.A. stew  
24 Butte's look·  
alike  
25 Rowan and yew  
26 Contract  
27 Loop  
28 Way to weave  
29 Man-made  
fabric  
31 "Holy Sonnets"  
poet  
32 Ger. seaport  
34 Penthouse  44 Electrical unit  50 Vipers  
37 Waytosee  46 Waterway  51 Printing tenn  
38 Unfurnished  47 Ms Lauder  52 Capri for one  
,40 Govt. agent  48 Brick base  53 Pace  
41 They bring  49 Imaginary  56 Trouble  
salvation  line  57 Gllbchap  




Campus 
•9:00 
-5:00 Senior reflection groups sign­up, Center for Social Concerns 

•11:30 
· 1:30 Lunch, Center for Social Con­cerns, Donations accepted 

•4:00 
P.M. Workshop, How to Decide on a Career, Joan Mcintosh, Notre Dame, Con­ference Room, Career and Placement Services 

•4:00 
P.M. Lecture, Change Produces Oppor­tunity, Terry Brennan, Prudential-Bache , Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Finance Club 

•4:30 
P.M. · Lecture, Interference Competi­tion Between Cladocetans and Rotifers John Gilbert, Dartmouth College, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•6:15 
P.M. General meeting, Center for So­cial Concerns, Sponsored by Circle K 


no longer the toy department. 
•6:30 
P.M. Informational Presentadon, Steve Gay, Special Olympics, LaFortune Uttle Theatre 

•7:00 
P.M. Youth Fellowship Meeting, Keenan Hall Chapd, Sponsored by Spiritual Rock ofNotre Dame 

•7:30 
P.M. General Meeting, Center for So­cial Concerns, Sponsored by Women United for Justice and Peace 

•7:00 
P.M. Meeting, 223 Hayes·H(:aly, Sponsored by Notre Dame Toastmasters Club, 

•7:30 
P.M. General Meeting, Center for So­cial Concerns, Sponsored by FLOC 

•7:30 
P.M. General Meeting, LaFortune little Theatre, Sponsored by Psychology Club •7:00, 9:00, -10:00 Movie, Cushing Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, 51 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Spaghetti con Carne Chicken Gumbo Huevos Rancheros Broccoli Cheese Surprise 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 16 MASH 22 Three's Company 16 Barney Miller 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 16 Highway to Heven 22 Stir Crazy 28 The Insiders 34 River Journer.; 46 Renewed Mind 16 Heiltown 22 CharUe and Company 
Saint Mary's Uv(:r Au Gratin Chile Ole' 
Hungarian Sushi Bake 
Jambalaya!  
28  Dynasty  
34  Non Fiction: Harvey Milk  
46  Lesc:a Alive  
9:30P.M.  22  George Burns' Comedy  
10:00P.M.  16  St. Elllewhere  
22  The Equalizer  
46  Calvary Temple  
10:30 P.M.  34  Silent Pioneers  
46  Everlasting Gospel  
ll:OOP.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  WSJV Newswatch 28  
34  Body Electric  
46  Prai~ the Lord  
11:30P.M.  16  Tonight Show  



~ 

---------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, November 13, 1985-page 16


S~orts 
Irish volleyball team drops match to Purdue 
ByKATHLEEN McKERNAN 
SportsWriter 
They had their moments. But un­fonunately for the Irish women, those moments were not too long or too frequent, as Purdue easily defeated Notre Dame's volleyball team 15-7, 15-l 0, 15-9 last night at theACC. 
"We played well in spots, poorly in others," Notre Dame Head Coach Art Lambert said after the loss, "and with a team like Purdue you can't do that." 
The Boilermakers, 16th-ranked in the nation proved to be too much for the inconsistent Irish. 
Purdue's senior all-America canididate Marianne Smith paced their attack with 15 kills, while teammates Lisa Reichl and Kim Cor­win contributed 12 and 11 respectively. While Notre Dame's Karen Sapp had 1 0 kills herself, the Irish hit for the paltry percentage of .153. 
"Our middle killed us both on of­fense and defense," Coach Lambert admitted. "We couldn't take care of the quick stuff in the middle." 
Notre Dame did have the momen­tum for briefperiods in all three sets. They had the lead in the first set 6-2 at one point; they also managed to retain possession for as many as three or ·four points before losing the momentum to Purdue time outs and side outs. 
Sapp's performance, Kathleen Morin's team leading 12 digs, and a strong effort from freshman Zanette Bennett kept Notre Dame in each game. Soon, however, Purdue brought in their own freshman as 
see IRISH, page 10 

Stanford makes finals with 1-0 win over Hogs 


By KENT WELDON 
Sports Writer 
The torrential downpour of rain that stopped just before gametime soaked Canier Field, but could not stop the Stanford soccer team as they pulled out a victory last night over Holy Cross, 1-0. 
The Hogs had their backs to the wall as they could not afford to lose the finals ofthe loser's bracket, in or­der to meet Off-Campus in the championships. 
The Hogs came out strong on the offensive in the first half dominating play. 
"We had a lot of opponunities, but their defense played well. Their team would bend but would not break," said Holy Cross captain Frank Laughlin. 
Both captains felt that the rain drenched turf affected the play of the teams as time after time players lost their footing. 
The Studs could only muster two Thr ObKrver/Drew SandJrr shots on goal in the first half, one of 
Notre Dame women's volleyball team members night's action against nationally ranked Purdue at 

which was hit a post. But, three 
Nancy Rowland (7), Suzanne Scheele (12) and the ACC. Kathleen McKernan details the game at 

minutes into the second half Dave 
Karin Knoll (6) rise up to block a shot tn last left. 

Stevenson knocked a Rob Zielinski throw-in past the Hog goalie. 
"We played a sloppy first half, but put things together in the second half by scoring early. Both teams 

Prep seniors set to sign today

played a good game," said Stanford 
captainJim Byrne. 
The play of Bill Gannon, Kevin Sp«Jal to The Obse1ver O'Brien, and Tim Kennesy, for the Hogs, was supponed by a vocal Holy Today is the first day of the early Cross crowd. The entire Stud signing period for high school defense is to be commended. seniors to sign the national letter-of­
The Holy Cross team ends a solid intent to play college basketball. 
season at 8-2. Stanford, at 8-1, can The Notre Dame men's team is ex­look forward to playing Off-Campus pected to sign at least four players, in the championships. all of which have previously given their verbal commitment to attend the University. The four are Joe Frederick, a 6-3 guard from Cincin­nati; Scott Paddock, a 6-9 forward from Plantation, Fla.; Tony Jackson, a 6-6 forward· from Weston, Conn.; and Keith Robinson, a 6-9 forward from Buffalo, N.Y. 
The Irish women's team is not likely to have any signings today. Notre Dame coach Mary DiStanislao is still waiting to hear from two recruits and could find out their decisions today. 
The early signing period runs through next Wednesday and will be followed by another in the spring. 


Some policy changes needed in college athletics 
Last Saturday, fate allowed college football a reprieve, but policy changes will be needed in order to repair the sad state ofcollege athletics. 
The Georgia Bulldogs -although having had a run-in or two with the NCAA themselves over violations -took the cause ofjustice into their game with the Florida Gators and emerged victorious, 24-3. This defeat forced the Gators out oftheir number-one spot in the Associated Press poll, a situation that had angered many. 
You see, Florida has been proven guilty ofviolating over 100 NCAA rules in relation to its football program under former Head Coach Charley Pell. The Gators have broken the rules to get where they are now. Why should they be rewarded in any way? 
They shouldn't be, and that is exactly what is wrong. 
Although the Georgia victory will in all likelihood prevent the Gators -a team on probation -from winning the national championship in the AP poll, there was clearly a possibility ofthis happening beforehand. With only three more victories, Florida would have sat out a New Year's Day bowl because of sanctions against them, but almost cenainly would have emerged as the national champion in that poll generally given most weight by those across the country. 
Because of the violations, the Gators vyere placed on three years probation. They are not allowed to go to a bowl game, cannot win the SEC title and cannot be shown on television. This is all in addition to a reduction in the num­ber offootball scholarships the school can offer in the com­ing years. But this is still not enough punishment, because an analysis ofthe situation uncovers many parties that con­tinue to gain despite the wrongdoings. 
One can begin with the school itself. Although a school on probation is not allowed to appear in the UPI poll (voted on by coaches), the AP poll enforces no such rulings. Its position is to merely look at a team's record and its schedule, and to rank in accordance with those factors. Ifa team plays Division I college football, it has the oppur­tunity to be ranked, whether on probation or not. 

Eric Scheuermann 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Many do, as they should, disagree with that. A team that cheats should not be allowed to benefit from that action, as Florida"does when it is allowed to finish high in the AP poll. In fact, the question comes up as to why the team should not be forced to disband for a certain time period. Florida's success now, at least in part possible because ofpast cheat­ing, cannot help but lead to more,success in the future. 
"How long do we just keep grinning and patting the kids on the back and huning college football?" asked Douglas Looney of Sports illustrated. "Something must be changed." 
Only harsher penalties wm help to end the constant cheating that goes on. If a school and boosters of that school know that the school could conceivably lose its program ifinfractions are discovered, you can be sure they will be less likely to risk anything. 
Galen Hall, head coach of the Gators since Pell's ouster last year, also benefits a bit from the situation. Florida boast a 15-1-1 record under Hall, and has been labeled a genius by fellow coaches. But the fact remains -even if the cheating has stopped under Hall -that there are players helping the Gators win today that are only there because of recruiting violations. 
And before one passes Hall off as the white knight in this fiasco, it is interesting to note that not only was he an assis­tant under Pell at the time ofthe violations, but he was also an assistant under Barry Switzer at Oklahoma in 1974. That year's Sooner team was, strangely enough, the last team on NCAA probation to win a national championship. 
Finally, perhaps the biggest gainers in this mockery of college athletics are those players receiving the illegal pay­ments to attend a certain school. At this point, athletes risk absolutely nothing by accepting payments. Even if the violation is discovered, the player is not punished. 
Thus, a player receives the best of both worlds. He can be "taken care of' by his school, without worrying about anything happening if the school is found out. Many ath­letes that received payments at Florida are still playing for the Gators, with chances to advance to professional foot­ball. 
"The same athletes involved in violations are the same ones getting pro contracts," said Notre Dame head basket­ball coach Digger Phelps. "Take away their eligibility based on the extent of the infraction and see what happens." 
It is not hard to see what would happen. Ifa star athlete knew his college athletic eligibility would be taken away if he was found accepting payments, he would be less likely to accept this money. After all, it is usually an athlete's per­formance in college sports that leads to a professional career. 
It does "take two to tango." This way, the athlete would be punished as well as the school. 
Last week, a tradition-filled basketball program also was under seige. Repons published in the Lexington Herald­Leader alleged widespread violations of rules in the Ken­tucky basketball program during former coachJoe B. Hall's 13-year tenure. 
The way the Wildcat fans reacted to the reports is an example of what is wrong with college sports. It is the opinion that cheating is fine because the risk ofsuch action is so low. The benefits to be received far outweigh costs that will most probably never be felt. 
"I've been bred here like a fine horse," said Wildcat sup­porter Mrs. Coburn Cashman, "and ifI want to give them a thousand dollars, ifI want to give them a car, so be it. Ifthe boosters are going to give (the players) something, that's great. I think those boys work their tails off." 
That is the attitude that must be changed in college ath­letics. 






