
AIDS-page7 

VOL XX, NO. 50 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1985 
, an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Unwanted 


Government faces 
B-ball tickets 

to be sold federal spending 
By TRIPP BALTZ 
StaffReporter 

'double doomsday' 
Student govcrnmt'nt plans to sell unwanted tickets for home basket­A.ssoclatcd Press The shutdown can be averted if ball games to those students who Congress passes a stopgap ap­
waited in line for season tickets but WASHINGTON -Unless Congress propriations bill to fund govern­did not get them. ends its impasse over the federal ment agencies past the expiration of 
Upperclassmen who want to sell a spending this week, the U.S. govern­the current temporary spending bill ticket to a homt' game can take them ment faces a Super Bowl of -midnight Thursday. to tht· student government office, bureaucratic snafus on Friday, the That is also the deadline for the where they'll be stamped and likes ofwhich the cou.ntry has never government to run out ofmoney be­
removed. They'll then be sold at the seen. cause Congress has been unable to R<K'k du Lac record store. For the first time in its history, the agree on a measure to raise the "This is the first time we've been government may default on its finan­government's borrowing authority allowed to do this, " said Bill Healy, cial obligations -bouncing millions above its current limit of S 1.H23 tril­Student Body President. offederal checks. lion. ~ike Bobinski. Manager of the In addition, much of the federal An appropriations bill gives the 
ACC ticket office:. has allowed the government could be shut down, government the legal power to tickt'ts to bt' removed for sale by stu· sending a half-million or more spend money but it needs an in­dt•nt government, provided they "nonessential" workers home on an crease in the borrowing limit to 
have been stampt'd. unscheduled holiday and closing raise the money to spend since it There: will be a lottery for stu­government offices from Was­will have exhausted its financial 
dent!> who bring in their unwanted hington to Anchorage. reserves by Friday. tlckt·ts. The: first prize will be: S I 00 A government shutdown would for items at the bookstore. Second The country is being brought to be nothing new. It happened in 
and third will bt' S7'i and S'iO, the brink of this double doomsday November 1981 and just over a year respn·tively. because of continued wrangling ago on Oct. 4, 1984. "Student government is paying for over federal finances. Both shutdowns had little impact these prizes, not the bookstore," Whik Congress has until mid­on the public. !>aid lkaly. night Thursday to reach a resolution A default, however, which has 
llealy thinks this is a good op­of the impasse, officials are reluc­never occurred before, could have porunity for upperclassmen to get tantly beginning to make contin­far-ranging implications. money back for the: games they don't gency plans if this deadline is not The Treasury Department says 
want to attend. "They get the: S4, and met. that as of Friday the government's the chance: for a prize," he said. The two problems, a government coffers will be completely empty. shutdown and a default, will require
see TICKETS, page 5 

separate congressional solutions. see DOOMSDA\', page 4 
Russian sailor leaves U.S. amid efforts to block departure 
Allsoclatcd Press "We're not going to forget this. jumped again from a launch which federal lawsuits and a Senate sqb-had a Coast Guard escort from the And we're not going to let the took him back to the ship. poena failed to keep the 810-foot time it slipped its moorings in 
NEW ORLEANS -The freighter powers that be forget this," said Jeff He cut one wrist after being freighter from leaving Saturday with Reserve, 130 miles up the Missis­carrying Miroslav Medvid back to Pandin, who tried to organize a forced back to the ship, but later told Medvid aboard. sippi River, until it entered interna­the Soviet Union was well out of flotilla of small boats to harass the U.S. officials that he wanted to return "As far as our operations down tional waters shortly before 
.Coast Guard jurisdiction yesterday, Marshal Koniev on its way down the to the Soviet Union. He said he had here in New Orleans, I think it's midnight Saturday. 
hut the sailor who twict' leaped into Mississippi River. fallen from his ship and could not over," said Pandin. "We're trying to It was somewhere in the Gulf of the Mississippi in apparent attempts remember what happened after that. figure out what our next step will be, Mexico yesterday, said Coast Guard to detect remained in the thoughts Medvid, 25, sparked an interna-through political channels in Was-Petty Officer Tom King. of those who tried to block his tiona! uproar when he jumped ship The federal government said it hington." see SAILOR, pageS 
departun·. and swam to shore.~O~ct~·-=2~4~·~H~e--~c=o=u=ld~d=o~n~o-=m=o=r~e~,~an~d-=a-fl_u~rry~_o_f_____Th~e~1_2_0~,_o_o_o_-t_o_n__M_ar__sh_al__K_o__n_ie_v__________________________~~ 
! ;ft;~.

Major snows and cold temps_sock nation 
A.<t80Ciatcd Press warmed to 73 degrees, one degree they didn't know when it would be above the record for the date set in reopened. 
if
..... 

Indian summer was over yester­19 31. Philadelphia and Atlantic Elsewhere in the Sierra Nevada, day for much of the country as City, N.J., had record highs of 72. 18 empty cars presumed to belong snow whitened the ground from But farther north, parts of Maine to backpackers, were found by the Northwest to the Great Lakes got 2 inches of snow during the Tuolumne County Sheriffs ' ' and shut down an interstate high­morning. deputies in the Emigrant Basin way. A cold front forcing its way Wild Area, a few miles nonh of 
Heavy snow in Northern Califor­across the Plains reached Dallas ap­Yosemite and about 15 miles nor­nia blacked out parts of the Sierra proximately at noon and dropped theast ofSonora. Nevada, closed roads and left an es­temperatures from the 70s into the timated two dozen hikers snow­30s and 40s. Around mid-morning, "It wa.•• warm during the week, hound near Yosemite National Amarillo had a temperature of just so presumably people from the Park. 28 while Brownsville, in far sout­(San Francisco) Bay area thought it 
Three deaths had been blamed hern Texas, was already at 83 would be fun to go hiking," said on the winter-like weather. degrees, and McAllen reached a Kenneth Gosting of the Tuolumne Butte, Mont., was the coldest high of 91. Amarillo's 14-mph County Visitors Bureau. "It's Im­spot in the 4H contiguous states north wind made it feel like 7 possible to go in there looking for with a low of 9 below zero, and degrees. them. There's over 1,000 square only warmed to R degrees above A new storm spread snow into miles to cover. It's like finding a zero at 2 p.m. EST. The weather the Northwest, and winter storm needle in a haystack." He said the 
service calculated the wind-chill warnings were posted for higher hikers may have found vacant factor at Kalispell, Mont., at nearly elevations in Oregon, Idaho, Nor­cabins. 30 degrees below zero yesterday thern California and northern Every major mountain pass in morning. Nevada. Washington state was affected by 
Casper, Wyo., had a record low Up to 3 feet ofsnow fell on peaks the snow, with snow tires orchains for the date of 2 degrees helow around Lake Tahoe, on the Nevada­advised or required, and three 
API'IIoto 

zero with 4 to 'i inches of new California border, and in the were closed. The state's snow, and Pocatello, Idaho, tied its nearby Sierra Nevada of Northern transportation department 
Friends and volunteers pusb a car offtbe curb and awayfrom a 
stop sign bit Friday in downtown Sioux Falls, S.D. Slick streets Indian summer held out in the between Reno, Nev., and Califor­yesterday at Cayuse Pass, and 24 caught some drivers by surprise during tbe season's first 
record low offl. California. Interstate 80 was closed reported 26 inches of new snow 
snowstorm. Story at left.
East, where New York City nia and authorities said yesterday inches at White Pass. 


The Obserwr Monday, November 11, 1985-page 2 
' 

Of Interest --·­
A Planning for Pregnancy seminar will be held tonight and next Monday night at 7 in the auditorium ofthe Angela Building, 410 N, Notre Dame Avenue. The program, which is sponsored by the Natural Family Planning Program of St. Joseph County, is free and open to the public. The program is targeted for expectant parents and those anticipating a pregnancy in the near future. The goal is to establish good health habits in women during child-bearing years. -The Observer 
The American Catholic Studies Seminar, sponsored by the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center fur the StudyofAmerican Catholicismwill meet tomorrow afternoon at 4 in the Memorial Library Lounge. Professor Leslie Tentier ofthe Univer­sity ofMichigan, will discuss her paper, "Catholic Women and Their Church: A View from Detroit." Everyone is invited.-The Observer 
This is Holy Cross Hall Week at Saint Mary's. Today's events are a breakfast for residents and a fireside chat with William Hickey, actingpresident ofthe College at 6:30 in the parlor. Tomorrow is Dorm Color Day, and an Open House for faculty and friends will be held Wednesday from 3:30 to 5 p.m. Finally, on Thursday, the annual "Miss Holy Cross Contest" will be held at 7 
p.m. in Carroll Hall. -The Observer 

Political ParticiptiOflin a Democratic Context: "Some Issues and Very Few Answers", will be the topic of a brief seminar by Guillermo O'Donnell tomorrow at noon. The seminar is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute, ofwhich Professor O'Donnell is the Academic Director. The seminar is open to the public. -The Ob­server 
Pax Christiwill be sponsoring a "Prayer for Peace" at 10 tonight at the Grotto. -The Observer 
"Human Rights and the Palestinians: The Rule of Law on the West Bank" will be the subject ofa lecture by Raja Shehadeh, founder and co-director ofthe Law in the Service ofMan, West Bank Affiliate of the International Commission ofJurists. The lecture will be at 4:30 today in Room 122 Hayes-Healy. The lecture is sponsored by the department of anthropology and the Mediterranean/Middle East concentration. -The Observer 
A flag-raising ceremony will take place today at noon at Notre Dame's South Quad flagpole. The Notre Dame Air Force ROTC drill team and color guard will conduct the ceremony as part ofthe worldwide Veteran's Day observance.-The Observer 
Candidate intervieWSfor those interested in joining the Knights ofColumbus will be tonight from 7 to 9. Inter­views will be held in the Council Building, next to the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. H unable to attend, call 283-1092 to schedule another time. -The Observer 
The annual Financial Institution Series begins today at 4 in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Robert Murray, executive vice presi· dent of the First Interstate Bank of Oregon, will speak on "value investing." Tomorrow at 4, Jose Fernandez, president of Drexel Burnham Lambert Puerto Rico, Inc., will discuss the changes taking · place within the financial services industry from the perspective of an investment bankingfirm. Wednesday at 4, Terence Brennan, first vice president of Prudential-Bache Securities, Chicago, will explore the opportunities available after change. All lectures will be in Hayes-Healy Auditorium. The series is sponsored by the Finance Clubofthe College ofBusiness Administration. The talks are open to the public -The Observer 
Weather 

Rainy days and Mondays may get you down today with a 50 percent chance ofrain. High 40 to 45. Rain likely tonight with near steady temperatures around 40 and a 70 percent chance of rain. Cloudy with a 40 percent chance ofshowers tomorrow. High 55 to60.-AP 


Ibe-Ob.se~~or__ 
--·-. ------­
~~·=-~ 

DesignEdttor............ .]ane Anne Rledford Viewpoint Layout................ Maria Groner Design Assistant................... Beth Conway Featurr!S Copy Editor...............Tim Adams Typesetters ...................................... Pat Oark Featurr!S Layout....: .............. Ellyn Mastako Bill Highducheck ND DayEditor.......................... Larry Burke 
News Editor.............................Scott Bearby Copy Editor.......................Ann Kaltenbach AdDesign...............................Sara Wolohan Sports Copy Editor...... Edc Scheuermann Catherine Ramsden 
Viewpoint Copy Editor....... Cindy Rauck· Pbotograpber..................... Hannes Hacker horst Typtst .............................. Jodl Shellenbarger 
lbe ObKrver (liSPS 599 l-~000 lis published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. lbeObKrver is published by the students orthe l"niversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be: purchased for S:\0 per year ( llO per semester l by writing lbe ObKrver, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
~M'i6. 

lbe ObKrver is a memher of lbe AMoclated Press. AU reproduction rights are rc:vrvc:d 
Creativity, not coercion aids 
in United Way fundraising 
"People helping people" is a slogan we all quickly identify with the United Way. We've heard it maybe a million times. 
Amy 

But at Notre Dame this fall, the slogan could be ex· tended to "Students helping students helping people." 
Stephan The organizers ofthis year's United Way campaign have found new ways for students to help others through the Managing Editor United Way. 

Until 1982 -that is, before most current Domers had ganizers, Mike Huber and Bob McNamara, apparently begun filling out college applications· the United Way gleaned from the successful MS drive is that creativity, campaign was a dorm competition. Dorm standings not necessarily competition, can spark interest in a based on the percentage of residents participating in charity drive. the drive appeared periodically in The Observer. ln past years, door-to-door solicitation by "your 
This approach finally was abandoned, as it should friendly section leader" was the bread and butter ofthe have been. Such an approach tended to coerce students United Way drive. This year, not only could you give a into giving for the wrong reasons. Dorms would com· buck for the United Way, but you could lock up a friend pete to show that theywere, indeed, the most generous. for Logan Center, read a horror story for the Boy Scouts In doing so, the meaning of generosity was shadowed or rock-alike fur the Red Cross. The events supporting by the spirit ofdorm-egoism. the United Way campaign 
The United Way cam­have proved almost as paign then bec,ame an in· diverse as the organizations dividual decision. Students benefiting from this fund. gave because their con· 
The United Way cam· science or their section paign has given students le.ader urged them to. something to do and a 
Last spring, MS fever hit 6S"') reason to do it. By sponsor· Notre Dame. A video dance '\.~ ing creative fund-raisers for party, rock-alike competi· a good cause, organizers tion and other unique have sparked new interest in events. flashed across the the charity they are support­Notre Dame social life. St!J· ing. These events both spur dents participated in those increased coverage in events because they were 11·11·• campus media and attract at­fun . . .. and because the tention from students who school raising the most to otherwise might have been fight MS would enjoy a free indifferent toward the cam­MTV concert. paign. 
It was the United Way Conversely, a worthwhile competition revisited, only cause helps to create inter­this time schools, not dorms est in a new, untested campus activity. Lack ofcreative were competing. And the stakes were a bit higher than social options on campus is usually rooted in lack of dorm pride. student interest. Few students have the time, resources 
Notre Dame won the contest. or motivation to plan campus-wide social events. And 
It is not bad that one's donation to charity could help all too often, when such events are organized by stu­win a competition. Nor does the presence ofa competi· dent government or other student groups, lack of tion imply that all students donate just to win. Many publicity and/or interest causes the·events to fall flat on give, as recent United Way campaigns attest, without their faces. the pressure ofcompetition. The United Way campaign combines resources, 
But charitable competitions can become, in the publicity and motivation needed for successful events. minds ofsome, more competition than charity. People Students who otherwise might pass up a new activity, give, or feel coerced into giving, to help the team, not take an interest when they find it's for a good cause. the cause. This may increase the money raised, but one This creative approach benefits both the United Way would question the Christian spirit of this University if and the student body. Domers are treated to a menu of students only gave to win a prize. social opportunities, while the United Way takes in the 
profits. 

Fortunately, this is not the case. This year's United Huber, McNamara and everyone involved in this Way campaign is proof, if any were needed, that Notre year's campaign are to be congratulated. Their method Dame students do not donate only for the sake ofwin· of fund-raising may not involve competition, but ning. ensures that everyone · students and the United Way ­
The lesson this year's United Way campaign or-wins. 
FRESHMEN & SOPHOMORES ONLY!l~eholarshlpa, grants, 
21 de noviembre: 
studeritfinandal aid available 
AMERICAN ,
I

WRITE for Free Details: 
yCANcER pase este d1a
Scholarship Research Service 
31 SOCIETY® 
f
I 

~ s. ~thA~ ~0401 
1n r. 
ExdtJng and Challenging Career Opportunities 
Master of Business Administration 
A small. highly selective MBA program has • management trainee with an been designed by The Ohio State University international assignment. Chase to provide professional management Manhattan Bank education to students with nonbusiness • assistant product manager. Pillsbury academic backgrounds. This two-year full-time • financial analyst. Hewlett Packard program • inventory control manager. IBM Corporation 
• 
facilitates a high level of student and • account executive. Merrill Lynch faculty-student interaction • consultant. Price Waterhouse 

• 
has no prerequisite course work • management trainee with an international 

• 
is especially attractive to students with assignment. Procter ana Gamble liberal arts. scientific. and other For a brochure describing this program and nonbusiness backgrounds application information. please 

• 
is built upon a tightly integrated study of contact: foundation management tools and 


Director, MBA Programs
concepts 
The Ohio State University
• offers the opportunity to concentrate in one 
112 Hagerty Hall

or two management fields through 
1775 College Road

elective course work 
Col~mtbus, OH 4J21G-U99
• is offered by one of the top 25 schools of 
614-422-8511

management in the country and is accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business 
Last year's graduates were very successful in finding career opportunities. Examples of positions they selected include the following: 
OOUJ 

• 
assistant to the chief executive officer. Midland Mutual Life The Ohio State University 

• 
field marketing manager. Ford Motor Company 


,----------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------~~ 
The Observer 

President and Mrs. Reagan chat with Prince Charles and l.ady Diana as they arrit,ed at the Diplomatic Entrance ofthe White House Saturday. The British royally were "enormously touched" by their we/com~ to .America, on the h~els of a two-week tour ofAustralia. The Reagans hosted a gala dinner Saturday night where actors john Travolta andClint Eastwood, and singerNeil Diamond were among the invited guests. 
Spanish hold NATO, U.S. protests 
AMoclated Pre!lll 
MADRID, Spain · Thousands of people marched and danced down the streets of four Spanish cities yes­terday in festive protests against Spain's membership in NATO and the pn·sen<:e of I J.S. troops in lea'led bases. 
Witnesses said similar demonstra· tion~ Jao;t year attracted at least three times as many people,. but uniform crowd estimates could not be ob­taint•d. 
The demonstrations began Satur­day night and were organized by a commiuee representing com­munist, pacifist and ecologist groups. 
Rands played and youths danced a<; protesters moved down streets in Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia and Gijon. No incidents were reported, and few police were visible along march routes. 
Crowd estimates varied widely. Madrid authorities put the crowd there at I '5,000. Organizers said nearly '50,000 took part. 
Estimates for Barcelona ranged from 10,000 to 2'5,000 and around I 0,000 in Valencia. No estimates were available for Gijon. 
Spain became the 16th member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza­tion in May 1982, under a centrist government. The Socialist Party staged a successful election cam­paign in October 1982 which called for withdrawal from NATO and a referendum on the issue. 
Since taking office, however, Socialist Prime Minister Felipe Gon­zalez has said Spain should remain in NATO although outside its military command structure. The govern-
The poUtlcal turbulence of Northern Ireland explodes onto stage ... 

THE 

FREErl.Ti~ 
OF THE 
CITYNotre Dome. Showcase Production 
Directed by Reg Baln November 14,15,16and 21,22,23 Washington Hall· Lab Theatre(N. Entrance) 8:10PM All seats 4(only 100 seatsper performance) Tickets available: At the door At 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

ment promised to hold the referen­
dum by early next year. 

The first round of negotiations between Spain and the United States on possible reduction of 12,000 American troops stationed in four leased bases began last month. 
Under a 1953 treaty of coopera­tion, the United States leases the bases and communications posts from Spain in return for military credits. Gonzalez's government ap­proved the latest five-year extension of the treaty in 1983. 
Spain's leading daily, El Pais, reported Nov. 3 that a poll indicated 46 percent of Spaniards surveyed opposed NATO membership, 19 percent approved, 25 percent had no opinion and 10 percent said they would not vote in the referendum. 
Monday, November 11, 1985-page 3 
50 organizations slated for Career Carnival 
By KATHLEEN ZASSICK 
StaffReporter 
A focus on career opponunities will be the main thrust ofactivities at 
Saint  Mary's  Carnival  of Careers  
Tuesday.  
The  Carnival  of  Careers  is  

scheduled for tomorrow from 3 to 6 
p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. All Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­dents are encouraged to attend. 
The Carnival of Careers is for the benefit ofstudents to meet firsthand with executives and representatives from companies. Information will focus on employment oppor­tunities, internships, and advice on how to "get in" to high level posi­tions. 
Also, students unsure of their majors can get advice from in­dividuals established in their fields of interest. 
According to Jeff Roberts, assis· tant director of the Counseling and Career Development Center, many juniors and seniors have found this career event to be extremely benefi· 
.cia!. The executives they spoke to have served as contacts or keys to other successful professionals in their field of interest. Employment 
or internships have also resulted. Freshmen and sophmores have also used the carnival to their 
advantage in gaining needed direc­tion in their courses ofstudy. 
Roberts, Involved In the organiza­tional aspect of the event, has received responses from '50 or­ganizations saying they will attend. 
Last year, 38 organizations at­tended but turnout was poor. Low attendance was due to scheduling errors. But enthusiastic, positive response from both students and participating companies was received, said Roberts. This prompted more involvement to hopefully make this year's Carnival of Careers a great success, Roberts added. 
Efforts by the Counseling and Career Development Center, stu­dent government, the Senior Board, and the junior Board have produced participation from a wide variety of companies. Included In the ex­ecutive lineup at the Carnival of Careers are IBM, E.F. Hutton, South Bend Tribune, Holy Cross As­sociates, Coopers & Lyband, Mellon B;lnk. Miles Laboratories, WSBT-TV, Indiana Bell, Peace Corps, and many others. 
Supermarket shooting spree leaves nine dead in Belgium 
AALST, Belgium -Police said three robbers fired shotguns and pistols "at anything that moved" during a four-minute super­market holdup that killed four people in a parking lot and three inside the store and left seven wounded. 
They said the robbers took about 13,800 and were still at large yesterday. The robbery oc­curred at approximately 7:45 
p.m. Saturday, 15 minutes before closing time. 
The seven people killed at the Delhaize supermarket in Aalst, 16 miles west of Brussels, were a man and his 9-year-old daughter, shot in their car; a couple and their 14-year-old daughter; a 30­
Political Turbulence of Northern Ireland is Brought to the ND Stage 
The political turbulence of Northern Ireland will explode onto the stage of the Washington Hall-Lab Theatre beginning this Thursday ~t. 8:10 PM when the Notre Dame Department of Communication· and Theatre 
presents a Showcase Production of The Freedom or the City by Brian Friel. The play will be presented Nov. 14, 15, 16, and 21, 22, 23. 
Friel's play tells the story of three citizens of Northern Ireland who attend a demonstration against the government. When government troops move in to disburse ·the crowd with teargas and rubber . bullets the three duck into the nearest building to escape the melee. Unwittingly they take refuge in the Mayor's Office in the Guildhall. Struck by the irony of finding safety in the building that is the symbol of their oppression, the three begin to drink the mayor's liquor, dress in civic officials' robes and call their friends on the mayor's phone. The troops outside believe that the Guildhall has been taken by terrorists. Tragedy results because no one has a clear understanding of the facts. 
Friel is expert in how he shows that the media is a powerful force in shaping public opinion, and how people on each side of an issue can interpret the facts to support their own cause. 
The Lab Theatre, which is at the north end of Washington Hall will lend an intimate environment for this unique and powerful play. The actor-audience relationship will be most important as one hundred seats will surround the action making the audience feel a part of the drama. All seats are $4 and tickets are available at the door or at 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall. For ticket information call 239-5134. 
year-old woman, and an elderly man. 
The gunmen Saturday night fired up to 40 times on their way in and out of tht> ~tore. ~ot into a car and 4uid.l) n.tJnJ police after shooting at their pursuers, according to police. 
A first aid official said on Bel­gian radio that "people were shot in cold blood from 30 cen­timeters (one foot) away." 
"They shot at anything that moved -it was a real massacre," said police spokesman Alfons van den Broeck. 
Authorities did not rule out that leftist terrorists may be be­hind the Aalst holdup and others· that have killed 20 people since 1982. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
• SOCIETY~
+ 

Omyoualfordtogamtiewith the LSAT, GMAT,GRE,orMCAl? 
Proba01y not. Great gradots 
alone may not be enouQh to 
impress the grad school of 
your choice. 
Scores play a part. And 
that's how Stanley H. Kaplan 
can help. 

The Kaplan coutse teaches 
test-taking techniques, reviews 
course sut!lects, and increases ' 
the odds· that you'll dnthe best 
you cando. 

So if you've been out of school for a while and need a refresher, or even ifyou're fresh out ofcollege, do what over 1 miUion students have done. 
ifake Kaplan. Why take l
·a chance with your· can!eJ'? 
KAPLAN 
STANlEY H. KAPlAN EDUCAJlONAl CENTER 1J0 
The~ 
test prep organization. 
SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 48837 (218)' 272-4135 
r The Observer Monday, November 11, 1985 -page 4 
African unrest lingers; press faces restrictions 

Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa ­
' Police said yesterday four blacks died in anti-apartheid violence nationwide, and a policeman was shot and wounded in a black neigh­borhood near Worcester in Cape province over the weekend. 
In another development, The Sun­day Star newspaper said a letter used by the government as evidence to restrict journalists was "bogus" and was part of "a shocking disinforma­tion scandal." 
Police officers seldom have been shot at during racial violence, but shootings have increased since August, suggesting that rioters may be adding firearms to the rocks and gasoline bombs that are their usual weapons. 
By official count, more than 800

The Bhagwan Sbree Rajneesh ts escorted by dian guru releasedon 1500,000 bail. He is free pen­
people, the great majority of them

federal marshals as be leaves U.S. Courthouse tn ding trial on immigration charges. 
black, have been killed in anti­

Portland a judge ordered the In-
apartheid riots that began Sept. 3, 1984. In a police statement covering un­

Arafat, Hussein pledge takeover 
rest from Saturday night through 
Associated Press 
ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates -PLO Chief Yasser Arafat said yesterday the Palestinian people will "never let the gun fall from their hands." 
And inJordan, King Hussein told a military graduating class that "the Arab flag" will soon fly over Jerusalem. 
Arafat's statement on Abu Dhabi television followed a declaration he made only last week in which he denounced violence against unarmed civilians anywhere and pledged to punish violators ofa PLO commitment against terrorism outside Israeli-occupied territory. 
Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization, said yester­day his Cairo declaration was "a diplomatic riposte to the fierce U.S. and Zionist (Israeli) campaign

f against the PLO." 
r The declaration was criticized by 
r some Arabs who contended he had 
I 
dropped the Palestinian armed struggle in favor of peaceful accom­modation with Israel. 
Arafat said the contents of the 
declaration represented "truthful 
respect for international legitimacy, 
which distinguishes between resis­
tance against an enemy and terrorist 
operations against innocent civilians 
outside the occupied land." 
But, he said, Palestinian resistance 
remained committed to "escalating 
armed struggle inside the occupied 
territories." 
In Amman, Hussein said in a speech that Arabs will soon rule Jerusalem, a city with a population of 400,000. Israel captured the Old City of eastern Jerusalem from Jor­dan in the 1967 Arab-Israeli War and later annexed it. 
"It will not be long before the day that the Arab flag will fly over Jerusalem and the voices (from the mosques) will cry 'God is great' and the bells will ring from the churches lion white South Africans deny the vote and other rights to 24 million blacks. 
In Kwazekele, near Port Elizabeth on the Indian Ocean, police said a man was· "fatally wounded while al­legedly breaking into a home." 
A police spokesman in Pretoria was unsure why the death was in­cluded in the report of unrest, ex­cept that the area is one of 38 under a state-of-emergency decree. 
In the confrontation between the government and journalists, The Sunday Star said a letter alleging wrongdoing by journalists was "bogus." 
Louis Nel, deputy minister of in­formation, waved the letter before a national television audience Wed­nesday, saying its author had seen a television crew stage a riot. 
Nel used the contents ofthe letter to justify the government's Nov. 2 decision to outlaw television crews, still photographers and radio reporters from riot areas. Print jour­nalists must report to police as soon as trouble simmers. 
Nel said the letter was written by a "D. Evans" of Torpoint, Devon, England, and was published Nov. 5 in The London Daily Telegraph. 
The Sunday Star said there was no 
D. Evans at the address given in the letter and that residents living there for SO years said they had never heard of him. 
Torpoint is in Cornwall, not nearby Devon. The newspaper said it located a D. Evans living in Tor­point who denied writing the letter. 
Kosie Venter, director ofinforma­tion at the South African Embassy in London, said he obtained the letter from The Telegraph and sent it to Nel. 
there," Hussein said yesterday at the Royal Military Academy in the Jor­danian capital. 
The king, in alliance with the PLO, has proposed peace with Israel in exchange for Israel's withdrawal from all lands occupied since the 1967war. 
Peace, the king said, should be based on "right and justice" a1nd should restore "the occupied ter­ritories to their legitimate owners." 
Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres has expressed willingness to negotiate with Hussein and with Palestinians who renounce violence. But Israel says it will never dawn yesterday, one black was reported shot to death by police who returned fire in yesterday's Worcester incident. 
A black man died southwest of Johannesburg after a mob attacked a guard who fired on them, said police. 
Police reported they discovered the body of a young black who had been hacked to death Saturday near Port Elizabeth. 
Black mobs regularly attack blacks viewed as collaborators with apartheid, such as policemen or government workers. 
Apartheid is the system oflegal ra­cial segregation under which 5 mil­


'Value Investing" 
Tuesday, November 12, 1985 

Mr. Jose E. Fernandez President Drexel Burnham Lambert Puerto Rico, Inc. 
"Investment Banking ­Past, Present, and Future" 
Wednesday, November 13, 1985 

Mr. Terence P. Brennan First Vice President Prudential-Bache Securities, Inc.
Sat. 12-5 
~~change Produces Opportunity" 
277-5026 
All presentations are given in the auditorium of the Hayes-Healy Business Building on the campus of the University of Notre Dame with an informal reception to follow. Public Invited. 
give up Jerusalem, which is a holy city for Jews, Christians and Mos­lems. 
The University of Notre Dame 
Israel also opposes Hussein's <:all for a U.N.-sponsored peace con­
Finance Club 
ference, although Peres has ind­
proudly presents: 
icated he would accept some sort o 
U.N. support for direct talks with Is­rael. 
THE ANANCIAL 

mediate impact since those checks it reaches a negative cash balance. went out on time at the first of the Administration officials are also month. concerned that a default, even one 
due to congressional wrangling, 
If any individual had delayed cas-would raise worldwide doubts hing that check, however, it would about the country's economic not be honored since the govern-health. Such doubts could send the ment says it has no way to dis-value of the dollar plunging criminate between obligations once precipitously. 
dBASEII® sets the data management 
standardfor 8-bit computers. 
HERE'S HOW: 

INSTITUTION SERIES 

Monday, November 11,1985 4:00P.M. 
Mr. Robert G. Murray, CFA Executive Vice President First Interstate Bank of Oregon 
4:00P.M. 
4:00 P.M. 

,_..----------~-­
The Observer Monday, November 11, 1985 -page 5 
Teacher number, quality slowly rise as salaries increase 

Associated Press 
W ASIIINGTON · The nation is making "slow, but steady progress" recruiting more and better teachers as salary increa.'ies are outstripping inflation, the Carnegie Foundation reported yesterday. 
Ernest Boyer, the president of the foundation, said its new review of school statistics from each state provides "grounds for cautious hope." 
But he added, "the challenge con­fronting teaching in this country is far greater than its achievements." He urged immediate action to tighten professional standards, boost teachers' pay further and recruit stand-out students for the profession. 

Boyer released. an update of a report called, "The Condition of Teaching: a state by State Analysis," first issued in August 1983. 
Its author, C. Emily Feistritzer, director of the National Center for Education Information, said the latest data on teacher salaries, test scores and other topics 
"dramatically demonstrates that all 
the  brouhaha  over  teaching  is  
paying  off  in  slow,  but  steady,  
progress."  

Teachers lost 12 percent of their purchasing power in the previous I 0 years, but their salaries rose 6.2 percent in 1984-85 and 6.9 percent last year, when inflation was only 3 to 4 percent each year, the report said. 
Citing National Education As­sociation figures, the report said the average classroom teacher made 523,546 in 1984-85. The median household income for teachers was about $30,000 In 1983, or roughly "the same as that for all college graduates," it said. 
Four percent of teachers, 85,000, had a household income of S 1 5,000 or less, compared with 16 percent of the working public, it said. At the op­posite end of the income scale, 13 percent of teachers, 275,000, were in households with incomes of SSO,OOO or more, compared with 20 percent of the working public. 
"Teacher salaries are higher than those of state and local government 
employees, and both are outstrip­ping the inflation rate," it said. "Yet a smaller and smaller ponion of ever­increasing school spending goes for teachers' salaries." 
"The SAT scores of prospective teachers are edging up taster than the national averages," it said. "The gap between the SAT scores of high school students who say they are going to major In education ... and the national average SAT score narrowed from 80 points in 1982 to 70 points in 1985. 
Observer Production Staff 
WE APPRECIATE YOU!! 
Many thanks to: 
Carey Gels, Accent layout 

Mariel Labrador, Accent Layout Melissa Warnke, design assistant AND Viewpoint layout 
Carol Brown, Viewpoint layout (and columnist) 
Maria Groner, Viewpoint layout 
Melinda Murphy, Viewpoint layout 
Jamie Joyce, layout staff 
Laura Gronek, layout staff 
Rob Bartolo, layout staff 
John O'Neil, layout staff 
Alex Peltzer, Irish Extra design editor 

And those fearless production leaders ..• 
Jane Anne Riedford, design editor Tom Small, design editor Andi Schnuck, design editor Maureen Murphy, design editor Beth Conway, design assistant Tracy Schindele, design assistant Kathleen Huston, design assistant Alice Kroeger, design assistant Melissa Warnke, design assistant Ellyn Mastako, Accent layout Karen Webb, Accent layout 
Philip H. Wolf, Assistant in charge of supplies (and newly ordained copy deity) Mark McGlaughlin, assistant in charge of special pages AND design editor John A. Mennell, production manager 
the few, the proud, the production department 
Juniors,Seniors&Grads••• 

RSELF 
SOME CREDIT! 

·Just bring a copyof yourschooii.D. 
•No cosigner required 
APPLY NOW ON CAMPUS! 
Date: Nov.11 ·15 
Time: 9am •, 5pm 
Place: LaFortune Student Center 
CITIBAN<O® 
Cltlbank (South 01koY), N.A Membet' FOfC 

the one boat that tried to· slow the Marshal Koniev, and for allegedly
Sailor 
unsafe operation of a Coast Guard continuedfrom page 1 boat.
He said the STOP committee's 
Sviatoslav Karavansky, a Ukrainian boat, dubbed the "Freedom War­dissident who spent 30 years in rior" for the occasion, was subjected Soviet prisons and now lives outside to a 90-minute <;oast Guard inspe<:­Washington, D.C., predicted that tion when it tried to follow the Medvid will be thrown into a jail or ' freighter as it left the dock. psychiatric hospital on his return. "At one point they attempted to 
"The nation he wanted to leave is ram us," he said. "They came within a great prison, and Mr. Medvid will four inches of our boat, with both be sent to a psychiatric hospital boats going 25 knots.... Later, our where he will suffer every day captain was convinced the Coast tortures," Karavansky said. "He is a Guard was jamming our radios. He normal man -and they will cure was absolutely unable to make radio him." communications with the shore." 
·Pandin said yesterday that Save King said he had not heard anyth-The Oppressed People Committee, ing about the alleged incidents. his group, planned to sue the Coast "They didn't lodge any com-Guard for S10 million for harassing plaints with this office," he said. 
to the freshmen who did get in line from 1 to 3. and then after 3 to
Tickets 
anybody," Healy explained. continuedfrom page 1 Exact times for sales will be ad­"Usually they just give their un­vertised no later than Wednesday, 
wanted tickets out." according to Healy. Healy cannot guarantee that all He also plans to speak to Bobinski 
tickets brought in will be sold. about selling tickets to students first Whether their tickets are sold or in the future. "They (the ticket not, however, students bringing office) project how many students 
them in are still eligible for the lot­will want tickets each year. Last year, tery. 
it was 3000, and this year, 4300. Preference will be given to those Next year they'll up the numbers who were in line for tickets when higher," said Healy. they sold out. A list ofthese students Healy hopes to have the lottery will be kept at the record store. If drawing during halftime at a game at there are still tickets for sale after a 
the end of the season. "With this certain time, any student will be able 
plan, we hope that everybody who to buy them. 
wants to go will be able to see at "Hypothetically, we'll sell them 
least one game," he said. 

~ ...... 

AIDS AT NOTRE DAME??? 
No one has acknowledged it yet, but what if it did happen? How would you react? What would your reaction be based upon? Fear? Ignorance? Prejudice? 
Tonight at 9:00p.m., NBC stations will air "An Early Frost"; a highly acclaimed drama about a young man with AIDS and his family's attempt to reconcile itself to his gayness, his disease and its consequences. 
If you can spare the time, why not use it to inform yourself? 
Gays and Lesbians at ND/SMC P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
~----~

--
-~-----~---------~-----~-----~--~---~--------­
The Observer Monday, November 11, 1985-page 6 

jenny Villalon, left, and Marga Vtllalon, right, got more exposure than they expected when posing for Valerie Demello at the International Student Organization dance in the LaFortune Ballroom over the weekend. 
Kicking causes halt to co-ed recess 
Associated Press 
WARWICK, R.I. -Segregation by sex on a school playground to protect boys from the kicks and punches ofgirls may be ending, now that a treaty has been worked out. 
Principal Richard Sousa agreed Friday to allow the boys and girls of Oakland Beach Elementary School to play together again on a trial basis beginning tomorrow, students said. 

The agreement followed a meeting between a Sousa-appointed committee of fifth and sixth grade boys and girls. 
"He left us alone for 15 minutes or so to work on solutions on how we thought we could solve the problem," said sixth-grader Leslie Fudge. 
Under the agreement, the schoolyard will be united as of tomorrow, but w"ill be segregated again iffighting resumes. If that hap­pens, Sousa told the students he would set aside a portion of the playground for peaceful mixing of boys and girls. 
The segregation was imposed when boys at the 430-pupil school complained they were being "kicked where it counts" and beaten up by girls when they went outside during recess periods. ­
YOU CAN JOIN THE FIRST LOCAL IPA*HMO IN THE MICHIANA AREA 

Key
Health Plan 

1Ooo/o TOTAL HEALTH CARE WITH NO DEDUCJIBLES AND MINIMAL COPAYMENTS 
..,. OFFICE VISITS COVERS ..,. ROUTINE CHECK-UPS ..,. PREGNANCIES
IN FULL 

..,.SURGERIES ..,. HOSPITALIZATIONS ..,. EMERGENCY CARE BOTH IN AND OUT OF AREA ­
WORLDWIDE ..,. PAP SMEARS ..,.IMMUNIZATIONS/INOCULATIONS 
KEY HEALTH PLAN 
Wholly Owned by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Indiana 
*Individual Practice Association (you personally choose a privately practicing physician as your health care manager) 
NBC movie regarding AIDS victim to air 
Associated Press NBC is sending six-page viewers 
guides to 200,000 groups, including 
NEW YORK-Rock Hudson's bout hospitals, social agenCies and with AIDS has prompted the made-schools. The guide has a fact sheet, for-TV movie, "An Early Frost, in compiled by the U.S. public Health which AIDS-support groups feel rnil-Service, that defines AIDS, lists its lions of Americans will have their symptoms and identifies the groups best chance yet to be educated mostly likely to contract the disease. about the deadly disease and its im­pact. Rosalyn Schram, NBC's director of 
"An Early Frost" is the story of community relations, said the in­
how one family is torn apart when their son, a 29-year-old homosexual lawyer, contracts acquired immune deficiency syndrome. NBC, which will broadcast the two-hour film tonight, predicts a national audience of 50 million viewers. 
Mark Senak, director of legal services for the Gay Men's Health Crisis in New York, said the interest in Hudson raised both conscious­ness and fear. The movie "takes us a step further," he said. "It takes our hands and says, 'Calm down."' 
"Rock Hudson was the first mass humanization of AIDS to the American public," said Glenn Ken­nedy, associate director of AIDS Project LA. "Until then, it was a name without a face, numbers without a body. That was step one: opening eyes. Step two is putting something in front of those eyes that instructs in a palatable way." 
At a screening of "Early Frost" in New York on Friday, AIDS victim Joseph Foulon, 29, was moved to tears several times. 
"I've been through everything he has," said Foulon. "I've been rejected by people and had friends die." 
In the movie, the AIDS patient is initially rejected by his father, played by Ben Gazzara. Foulon hasn't talked to his own father about his illness yet. He says he hopes to do that this Thanksgiving. 
"I saw hope in that the father came around in the movie," Foulon said. "You can't do it alone." 
NBC and AIDS-related groups around the country hope the public will respond to that message. 
formation campaign is unlike last year's "Burning Bed," "in which we wanted to raise consciousness on the issue of wife abuse. We know consciousness already has been raised on AIDS. So what we want to do in the guides is focus on specific information and disentangle myth from reality." 
In conjunction with the film, NBC is offering its local stations a public service announcement featuring Gena Rowlands, who plays the AIDS patient's compassionate mother in "An Early Frost." The announce­ment includes a toll-free telephone number from the Public Health Service. 
After the film, NBC news will have a half-hour report on AIDS. 
Besides issuing its own viewer guides, AIDS project LA is suggesting that people watch Monday's movie in groups. Kennedy said each guest will be asked to pledge at least $10 to local AIDS support groups. 
Confirmations have come from nearly every state and more than 100 group viewings have been scheduled in Los Angeles, Kennedy said, and the California Association of Health Education Teachers has suggested students watch the movie for extra credit. 
Last week, Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley sent a letter to the ex­ecutive board ofthe National League of Cities and the mayors of major cities asking them and their con­stituents to watch "An Early Frost." 
"We must take a leadership role with the efforts to educate ourselves and the public about the myths and realities of AIDS," Bradley's letter said. 
Man continues living after receiving 13-year old heart 
Associated Press 
NEWBURGH, Ind. -Four months ago, Jim Bunning was lying on an operating table while surgeons made a foot-long incision down his chest and inserted the heart ofa 13­year-old girl. 
Since thatJuly 9 operation at Van­derbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tenn., Bunning has recovered enough to tackle a daily regimen of walking, some jogging, aerobics, and muscle exercises. 
"People don't understand. I am not like a heart patient who's had valve bypasses. I have a 13-year-old heart," the 42-year-old says, grin­ning. 
"I have a heart that's been checked and is fine. It's connected differently than most because all the nerve endings of the normal heart cannot be reconnected. So it takes a little longer for my heart to warm up, to get a heart rate that's ap­propriate for me. To do exercise, I have to warm up a little longer than you might and cool ~own a little longer. But once it gets warmed up, my heart's fine." 
Bunning and his wife, Sue, hope to share their experiences, and previous fears, with others facing transplant surgery. 
To thank friends and strangers who heard about him and sent cards and money, Bunning plans to begin speaking to clubs and others in February. He wants to tell people that by donating organs they can give a fellow human being "a quality of life afterward we didn't know could exist." 
Bunning said he knows its a very emotional decision, but said "I hope I can encourage people to sit down in a family atmosphere and discuss organ donations." 
Bunning has a special salt-and sugar-free diet and takes drugs, such as cyclosporin, to prevent heart rejection. The drugs can have side effects such as puffiness, hand tremors, greater risk of lymph can­cer, hair loss and hair growth. 
Steroids rob Bunning's body ofits ability to ward offcolds and viruses, so until the medications are les­sened he will stay away from crowds. 
There are weekly trips to the local VA clinic for blood tests. He drives himself to Vanderbilt each month for a heart catheterization so tissue samples can be tested for signs of heart rejection. 
However, Bunning's doctors have told him by early 1986 he can con­sider returning to work, but he isn't sure what he will do. He may help his wife sell insurance. 
Bunning is a former motel manager with a background in per­sonnel management and banking. He was overseeing renovation of a motel when a bout with viral pneumonia last year permanently damaged his heart and forced him to quit before the motel opened last 
May.  
The  diagnosis  was  car­ 
diomyopathy,  which  causes  the  
heart muscle to fail.  

Accent 
Monday, November 11, 1985 -page 7 

ND gears up for helping AIDS victims 
A 
LISA YOUNG an article about what students can Many colleges and universities Berkeley is also developing an AIDS tlons. Time Magazine says AIDS Is featu"'s writer do to gain information about AIDS across the country have drawn up education program scheduled for invariably fatal. is available at the infirmary," said policies concerning AIDS. Publica­next spring. Two students and one IDS: Acquired Immune Carol Seager, director of University tions like the one available through staff member at Berkeley have died The majority ofpeople with AIDS Deficiency Syndrome. Making Health Services. the infirmary are being distributed from AIDS. Other schools, such as are homo sexual or bisexual men headlines in every newspaper and This information, as well as fact Northeastern University in Boston, with multiple partners, and past or magazine worldwide, this deadly sheets on AIDS and other sexually are conducting AIDS seminars. present intravenous drug users. disease quickly is becoming one of transmitted diseases, can be ob­More than 90 percent of people the most feared illnesses today. tained through the infirmary. For AIDS was with AIDS are men.
Notre Dame students have mixedNo one is absolutely sure, but it privacy reasons, an appointment feelings about AIDS. "I am no moreseems as If there have been no with a nurse regarding personal 

initially 

AIDS is spread by sexual contact,
concerned about AIDS than I am

reported cases ofAIDS at Notre issues can be made, rather than about cancer," says one student. 
needle sharing or, less commonly,
Dame. asking for the information at the 
reported in 
through blood or its components.
Another one said, "I think It's scary

Father Francis Cafarelli, assistant window. because it's something that's so 
However, there is no definitevice president for student affairs, 
America in evidence yet that the virus can be
foreign and inexplicable, and in our

says he has not heard ofany cases of Dr. Alicia Finn, coordinator for society, anything that's inexplicable 
spread through casual contact with
AIDS at Notre Dame, but he also outreach and counseling at Psyc­1981, and victims or with objects they haveis scary."
stressed that AIDS is a medical hological Services, says that Psyc­touched.
According to a fact sheetproblem and that any Incidents of hological Services has not received 

12,000 reports 
• provided by the U.S. Public Healththe disease would not necessarily any calls concerning AIDS. Acall, Service, AIDS was initially reported There is no single test whichhe reported to him. however, would be handled by, 
of cases have 
in America in 198I, and I 2,000 conclusively confirms AIDS. There"The administration is aware that "helping the student acquire the reports ofcases have been received is a test which detects the presenceit (AIDS) Is a real problem that we medical information necessary." been received since then. Oftbese, halfhave ofantibodies to the virus thathave to face .... We will be Psychological Services, Finn says, 
resulted in death. causes AIDS, but this may or maytalking about that," he said. "Ifa "would be the conduit to get in­
since then. Of 
not mean the patient Is infected.
Notre Dame student were to be formation." The workers would also 
The AIDS condition Is charac­,
confirmed to have AIDS, "we will help the student deal with the psyc­these, half terized by a defect in natural im­AIDS Is, indeed, a serious medical 
I munity against disease. Researchers problem deserving the attention It do whatever is best . . . This is hological aspects ofcontracting 
so new. I can't say ahead of time AIDS or knowing someone with the have resulted have Isolated a virus called Human has been given in the past year. Says how it will be handled, other than disease. 
T-lymphotropic, type III (HTLV-Time, "Only a large dose ofpublicas a medical, personal problem," in death. 111), which Is the cause ofAIDS. education and preventetlvesaid Cafarelli. 
The Office ofUniversity Ministry Infection, however, does not always medicine can slow the rate at whichNotre Dame has several sources can also be of help in dealing with lead to AIDS. But if the virus takes AIDS is spreading around thethrough whi<:h one can gain in­AIDS. Individual counseling can be to college students in an effort to hold, it lowers a person's immunity world." A Public Health Serviceformation and counsding concern­set up, because each case would be educate them and calm their fears. 
system and leaves its victims vul­Hotline has been established: l­ing AIDS. "A newsletter containing unique. 
The University ofCalifornia at nerable to other diseases and infec-800-447-AIDS. 
I 
1 1
Good grief! The Comic Critics are busting heads! I 
I 1 
Through His Own Column . . . . Kevin: Yeah, I always pictured the Sophisticated. 
1 
Kris: Ease. How about Woodstock? characters in "Doonesbury" as great Kris: OK Mr. Sophistication, what's
Krls Murphy 

A bird named after a rock concert comic strip hippies in the tradition your favorite strip? where everyone ran around naked ofevery character in "B.C." Kevin: No hesitation on that one. and stoned. Kris: "B.C." That's the strip where "Family Circus."
Altered 

Kevin: Speaking ofstoned, little the fat lady is always beating up on Kris: "Family Circus?" A bunch of 
i
Orphan Annie looks like she's on the snake, right? The guy who one-panel cartoons about moon­"Altered'': The humor column Kris: I can't stand "Henry." 
The kid's Quaaludes. Where did she get ,those writes that must have a thing about faced three-year-olds. You probably for discriminating readers. bald and he wears shorts in the eyes? My personal theory is that she snakes. have a Cabbbage Patch doll, too. 
This week: Special guest Kevin D. winter. They're ugly shorts, too. was the daughter ofDagwood and Kevin: Or a thing about fat ladies. Let's face It, "Bloom County" and Walsh (not the guy who writes And he never talks. So you've got Blondle. I can see Blondie turning Kris: Speaking offat ladies, that "The Far Side" are the only comics "Zeto"). this anti-social kid in ugly shorts to Dagwood and saying "She's got mangy squirrel-thing in "Zeto" worth reading. 
Everybody likes comic strips, but and he's supposed to be funny. your eyes; let's abandon her." easily is the best character in that 
some of them are losers. So in the llh-uh, wrong. Kris: Blondie, easily the best­strip. Zeto himselfhas a weird hair­Kevin: Yeah, "The Far Side" has grand tradition of Ebert and Siskel, Kevin: He does wear a scarf. looking woman in comic strips. cut and Danny Domer has the those great bears. Batman and Robin, jan and Dean, Kris: But he's bald and he doesn't Kevin: Next to Nancy's aunt. brains ofa grapefruit. Krls: Right. Bears. And Opus is some 
Lewis and Clark, and Gin and Tonic wear a hat. He can only carry this Krls: There should be a Biondie Kevin: Enough negative stuff. kind ofdemi-god. we present Comic Follies! Zen stoicism so far. And besides, he swimsuit calendar. And look at What's your favorite comic strip? Kevin: Speaking ofdemi-gods, Kevin: Kris, wake up! This is your looks like a hard-boiled egg. Dagwood; he's got these things Kris: "Snuffy Smith," ofcourse. where's the comics section? 
column and you're asleep. Kevin: Speaking ofhard-boiled eggs, sticking out ofthe side ofhis head Kevin: "Snuffy Smith?" A comic strip Kris: I threw It out. They cut 
Krls: Mmmmmphhftf ... (blink, Charlie Brown has to be one ofthe and he runs into the mailman every about rednecks. Funny. Intelligent. "Henry." blink) classic comic strip characters ofall day. The guy's a moron. Kevin: . . . and besides, this is the time. The Woody Allen of the com­Kevin: Speaking of morons, have day we're supposed to review all ics .... you been reading "Spiderman" those fun comic strips, right here in Kris: Nice ears. Nice shirt. He al­lately? Uh-oh. The Observer! ways sticks his tongue out when he Krls: This week, Splderman reveals Kris: What a sorry puppy you are pitches. that he was molested as a child. Walsh. Well, let's get going. Which Kevin: But there's something sym­Kevin: I won't touch that one. It comic strip do you hate the most? bolic about this hapless kid who sounds like "Apartment 3-G." Kevin: I have to go with "Nancy," gets boned by a woman with a Kris: What really goes on In Apart­
"'' 
, 
Murph. Nice hair, Nance. They football every fall. ment 3-G? No one ever eats or should reserve a special room In Krls: Kind oflike you, big guy: hap­cleans house or anything. They're hell for the guy who gets paid for less, uncoordinated . . . . always crying or shooting someone 
writing that strip. What about you? Kevin: You're one to talk, Mr. Sleep and it reminds me of"Dallas." Kevin: It's like those "macho" comic strips. You know, "The Phan­tom," "Dick Tracy" .... Kris: Nice names. Would you trust someone named The Phantom? Kevin: . . .or someone named Gil Thorpe? Does anyone really read these things with any degree of
Be the first to know as a writer 
seriousness? Kris: Yet another case ofcartoon
for the Accent Section of 
characters taking themselves too seriously. Kevin: Yeah, I'd love to see one of
Ihe_ObserYer--= 
those macho guys like Steve Canyon hunt Garfield down and kill Help us open up issues, analyze trends, review him, but I wonder about the guys who write these things. How does
campus entertainment and interview celebrities 
the guy who writes "Dondl" sleep
-or write humor columns! 
at night? 

There will be a meeting for all those Interested Kris: "Gandhi?" Kevin: Close . . . . Forget it.
Thursday night at 1 In the Observer office. 
Kris: Speaking ofdoughnuts, For more information contact Mary Healy "Doonesbury" was always one of 
at the Observer office, 239-5313 my favorites. Then everybody got married, that "flamer" showed up, and Zonker graduated. 

View~_o_i_n_t________M_on-da-y~,-No-ve-mb-er_1..i.1,1-98-5~­
pa-ge-8 

Bot and Perry can ride sports fame to the bank 

In 1975, then-owner of the Chicago White Sox Bill Veeck was asked why he preferred baseball to other sports. He said,"Baseball is the only game left for people. To play basket­ball now, you have to be seven-foot-six. To play football you have to be the same width." 
ChrisMatz 

guest column 
It appears Veeck's precognitive skills were right on target. Ten years later, we have, living and playing among us, perhaps the two very people of which he was speaking: William Perry and Manute Bol. 
r 
Since we are approximately half-way through football season, young Perry's fame already is established · you may know him bet· ter as the Refrigerator, or jur.t the Fridge, rookie defensive end and new offensive super­star of the Chicago Bears. 
Walter who? The Fridge tips the scales at almost 308 pounds, though in his .~alad days (not to mention his weeks ofdesserts at Clem­son, 330 was not an uncommon reading. 
As for Bol, the Dinka tribesman came to the United States from Sudan, hoping to find the prosperity that had eluded him in his native land. At seven-foot-seven, that was probably the only thing that eluded him. 
Bol enrolled at the University ofBridgeport, 


Gender will always guide the Catholic Church 
Doonesbury· Garry Trudeau 

A recent article dealt with Geraldine Fer­raro's ground-breaking nomination of last July. In the article's conclusion, Mary Berger stated that though her daughter may never be a pope, because of Ferraro's nomination she has a legitimate chance at the presidency. On both counts, she is right; she or her daughter could be a president -but probably never will be a priest. 
Terry K.ibeltis 

guest column 
Why? Because of archaic tradition that bases religious competence on X and Y chromosomes. No matter how devoted, saintly, or theologically intense a person may be, gender always will define the path these characteristics will take. And if that person happens to be female, well, as Shakespeare would say, "Get thee to a nunnery" is the Roman Catholic Church's only answer. 
The call to the sisterhood is a meaningful and beautiful one, and for those truly devoted, it is a wonderful and fulfilling life. Yet for women who desire something else, there are no other options. For men, both the brother­hood and priesthood choices are available. 
This lack ofoptions is typical of the Roman Catholic Church's treatment of its female members. Though they were among the first believers, and the few who, historically, did 
· not flee the crucifixion scene, women have been forced consistently to take a secondary role by the male Church hierarchy. 
Canon Law emphatically bars w~men from being altar servers. And though women are permitted to be Eucharistic ministers, be­cause of bishop's discretion in implementing this policy, this service has been slow to come by in many dioceses. 
Contradictions like these are basic to the roots of our religion, but developed through the social mores ofthe past centuries. Histori­cally, because of the prevalent sexist views of female capabilities, priesthood for women never was considered seriously. 
Yet these past decades have brought about long-needed reforms of preconceived abilities of women. More enlightened view­points forced a reevaluation of stereotypes that has caused both social, legal, and theological repercussions. The role ofwomen has become all-encompassing, to the point where women have become part of every sphere ofoccupations, including the ministry. 
Why, therefore, has the Roman Catholic Church refuted these changes? No logical answer has been offered. In 1972, Pope Paul VI stated women shouid not be priests be­cause they do not physically resemble Jesus Christ. Since then, responses have been worded more tactfully and hidden under shovels ofplatitudes about the role ofmother­hood. 
The basic view has not changed, however: The male-dominated Church says because women are female, it is impossible for them to a Division III school in Connecticut, where he piled up impressive statistics, including enough blocked shots to fill an elephant's ear, and then some. He was drafted by the Was­hington Bullets, the NBA franchise in our na­tion's capital, and became the most talked about topic since Nancy Reagan's last tea and Tupperware social. 

Bol is not mentioned in the same breath as a Ewing, a Jabbar, or a Russell because he has this little weight problem. That is, his problem is that he has very little weight. He played in college at 190, and while he has bulked up to 215, he still looks like a hodge-podge of Et­hopians Krazy-glued together. Sorry, that was a crude analogy, but you get the picture. 
Already there are those who think Perry might be an unfair advantage for the Bears. Just ask the Green Bay linebacker George Cumby what his opinion is -he's the man the Fridge burned for both of his NFL touch­downs. It won't be long before people start spouting off about the basket not being high enough after they see Manute dunk with his teeth_ While they're at it, maybe they could narrow the width of the end zone to prevent too many 308-pound touchdowns. I am sure Cumby would agree with the proposal. 
Maybe guys like Perry and Bol should com­pete in their own league, or better yet, have a decathlon to decide who is truly the best ath· lete; not just the biggest. Perry might have the edge in the pie-eating contest, but I'd have to give it to Bol in the stalking-and-capture of water buffalo competition. 
I'll bet ESPN would be willing to televise it. It's got to be better than "Inside the Rugged World of Championship Polo" · nice shirts don't mean everything. Or even the major net­works might take a chance on it. After all, ifthe Superstars competitions were popular, (I 
.can't speak for the ladies, but guys, remember 
1those Saturday afternoons of our innocent 
youth, watching Lynn Swann and Greg Foster 
on the obstacle course?) this could work. 
Pretty soon, they'd be doing their own en­
dorsements: Perry for Frigidaire and General 
Electric, and Bol for Del Monte string beans. 
Then come the guest appearances on TV: 
Perry would be a natural on "The Cosby 
Show." I can see it now... 
Cliff: "Children, your Uncle Fridge is com­
ing froll} Chicago for a visit." 
Theo: "Great, I'll be able to walk behind him 
and finally get to see some of those R-rated 
movies I've been missing." 
Cliff: "Fat chance, Theo, my boy." 
Theo: "I know, Dad, won't it be great?" 
And how about Bol on "Miami Vice" as a jamaican drug-runner? The guy is almost in­visible when he turns sideways now; think of what a hard time Crockett and Tubbs will have gunning him down -might have to make that one a two-parter. 
The bright lights of Hollywood beckon, as well, and if these guys aren't the real "odd couple," then there is no justice. Maybe they could do a remake of "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid," though finding a horse brave enough for Perry could be a problem. With a little marketing, though, these erstwhile sports legends could become real gold mines. 
You know, I'm beginning to think that I don't need this college routine -just two clients like Manute and the Fridge in my back­pocket. Getting a hold ofBol might be difficult but I should have Perry's number around here som~here... ah, here it is, toll-free, no less: 1-800-B-1-G-D-U-D-E. Where's that phone? 
Chris Matz is in the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame. 
be good priests. The problem returns to physi­cal realm. 
Certain Church leaders have refused to ack­nowledge what they feel is a trend. Is spiritual equality ever a trend? Can basic human regard ever be a trend? 
Women priests is not a radical idea; it is a rational, spiritual development of Cat­holicism. It fulfills the basic tenets of our religion, by letting all be called to serve. It al­lows the Church to mature fully into the post­Vatican II world. It inspires increased devotion on the part of all Catholics, as it finally acknowledges the contributions of every member. It truly asks each member to exemplify Christ's actions, through their life as either laity or clergy. 
Growing up in parochial school taught us that all people, rich or poor, young or old, sin­ner or saint, are equal in the eyes of the Lord. Why isn't the Roman Catholic Church the same? Why can't women be priests? If the Church has logical answers, I would like to hear them. 
The only acceptable answer is the Church must realize the hypocritical position it holds and have the courage to implement needed liturgical change. Enlarging the role ofwomen is the major reform enabling the Church to correct its stand. 
Vocations are a very beautiful part of Church tradition. The sacrifice and courage of people making this commitment exemplifies Christianity at its apex. Allowing women to make this choice broadens the spheres of so­cial and religious understanding. 
In its literal sense, "catholic" means univer­sal, not male only. Until women are able to encompass all parts of religious tradition, it never will be universal. Then, and only then, can the Church truly call itself"catholic". 
Teny Kibeltis is in the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame. 
Viewpoint Policy 
" The Observer ·accepts letters to the editor at the above address. All letters receivt·d become the property of The Ob­server. Lettt:rs must be typed, no longer than 2';0 words and signed by the author. 
" Commentaries appearing in The Obser­ver do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofThe Observer. 
·• Guest columns may not respond directly to previous commentaries appear­ing in The Observer and may not exceed 700words. 
" The Observer encourages commen­taries from all members of the Notre Dame 2Lnd Saint Mary's community. 
Quote of the day 
"'When I find myselfin times of trouble, Mother Mary comes to me speaking words ofwisdom -letit be." 
john Lennon and Paul McCartney "Let it Be" 
"ieVVP-~O~i~n~t~-------------------------------------------M__o_nd_a~y~,N--ov_e_m_b_e_r_l_l~,l~9-8_S_·~p~ag~e~9 
'Tipper' Gore censoring freedom from rock music 
I am not in a very funny mood today be­l.:ausc somcthing that I care: about is being thrcatcncd. That somcthing is rock and roll music. Mary Elizabeth "Tipper" Gore, wife of llnited States Senator Albert Gore Jr. and a group of other "Washington Wives" arc using thcir husbands' political clout in an attempt to institute a rock lyric rating system to fight what they call "porn rock." That makes me angry because rock and roll is extremely im­portant to me and an intcgral part of my life. 
KrisMurphy 
freedom 

Now be careful. Do not stereotype me. This is not a matter of politics. I am a conservative Rcpublican and very proud of it. I do not hclieve anything that feels right is right nor do I condone pornography. Above all, I believe in tht• sanctity of human life. Second, I do not wcar black concert tee-shirts, I do not think Jim Morrisson is still alive, and I would not know a quaalude if I fell over one. I thought 714 was Babe Ruth's home run record. In ot­hcr words, I do not adhere to the "rock 'n' roll lifestyle." 
There, now we: have established I am not a knee-jerk liberal and I am not a freak and we arc all finished with stereotypes. Now, I can 
Get a grip on reality before entering 'world' 
Dear Editor: 
This is addressed to the three residents of 

Morrissey I tall who claimed in the November 
H issue that by printing the picture of the USC 
cheerleader. The Observer was serving the 
Notre Dame community, "which just happens 
to be one of the great bastions of male 
supremacy." 
First of all, guys, you are living in a fantasy 

world. Men may outnumber women here yet, 
but tht· fact is that Notre Dame women have a 
higher overall GPA and had stiffer competi­
tion for admissions to Notre Dame in the first 
place. 
The idea of "male supremacy" at Notre 

Dame, or anywhere for that matter, is prepos­
terous and had nothing whatsoever to do with 
The Observer printing a picture. 
It angers me that you who suffer from su­

periority complexes have to make such 
ridiculous statements. It only serves to 
alit-nate people and widen the chasm between 
the sexes here when we could all usc a little 
moral support. 
Bccause I have met some really fine men 

here for whom I have a lot ofrespect, it shocks 
and disappoints me when I find that 
egocentric, misguided attitudes like yours still 
thrive -on campus or anywhere. 
To you three who "cannot wait to get out 

tht·rc" in the real world, you're going to have 
to gct a grip on reality first. 
Carol Meaney Farley Hall 

Rangers are trained as good soldiers not to kill Dear Editor: 
I am an Irish Ranger in the Army ROTC program, and I am disturbed by some of the rumors going around campus about the Rangers. Many people who consider them­selves open-minded have condemned the Rangers without a great deal ofgrounds to do 
so. 
get back to business. 
I have already said rock and roll is someth­ing I care deeply about. I do not mean just any rock and roll either. I listen to all of it. In fact, my two favorite records right now are "Dress Me Up", Madonna's latest single, and Flip Your Wig, the new Husker Du album. "Dress Me Up" is on the Washington Wives' "filthy fif­teen" list presumably because Madonna sings "Dress you up in my love/all over your body/all over." If you do not know all about Madonna by now you have been living in a cave for the last year. Husker Du is a hardcore band from Minneapolis. Their music is loud and fast and sometimes grating. Their lyrics are about anguish and irony and sometimes hope. 
At first glance, Husker Du and Madonna could not be farther apart. I like Madonna for the same reasons I like Wham! Both sing about fun and romance. They make me want to dance. They make me feel young, alive, and very, very free. 
Husker Du, howver, is music I listen to alone in my room or with headphones. It is my private band because in all those roaring chords and half-sung, half-screamed lyrics there is raw emotion. Listening to Husker Du vent their rage and frustration with all that white noise comforts me because I know that someone else is hurting too. 
What do these artists have in common? 

Freedom. All rock and roll is essentially about freedom. Madonna makes me want to dance and I never feel freer than when I am dancing. Husker Du is about freedom too. The roar that it cares about so passionately is about freedom from the self-induced oppression that people bring about themselves with their senseless hate and pettiness. 
Freedom: This is what Tipper Gore and her ilk are trying to censor. By rating lyrics, they are hoping to influence sales and by doing that, gain some control over what is recorded and released. I am not trying to infer that all rock and roll is pure and good. I am trying to say just the opposite. There is a lot ofsex and a good deal of violence in rock and roll, but, through the years, it has become apparent the art of a society is usually a reflection of the society and not the root of the problem. I refuse to blame the arms race on Twisted Sister. And sure Prince sings about sex a lot, but I seem to remember "The Miller's Tale" in "The Canterbury Tales" being pretty "dirty" too. Let us not forget the Sex Pistols. Johnny Rotten sang "I am the anti-christ," but Nietschze was pretty hot on the anti-christ too and I am reading him right here at Notre Dame. 
Censorship will not stop the misuse of sex and of violence. To think otherwise is naive, futile and often dangerous. 
Rock and roll is undeniably part of our 
P.O. Box Q 
They know very little abqut our program, 

yet they accuse us anyway. I have been called 
"cold blooded" and "baby killer" by people 

who admittedly know little about the Rangers. 
Does this sound like the workings ofan open­
minded person? We are being falsely accused 
and misunderstood. 
I would like to show our side to create a 

more open-minded understanding between 
us and the Notre Dame community. 
The training of a Ranger cadet involves 

physical conditioning, as well as an introduc­
tion to strategic tactics. Personally, I look 
upon this training as the best way to prepare 
me for my future in the Army. The world we 
live in is unstable; we need a defense against 
aggression that results from this instability. 
People should not fear or be threatened by 

the Irish Rangers. We do not want to become 
the best soldiers possible because we want to 
be macho, cruel, or unmerciful. We want to be 
superior soldiers because we want to protect 
all we love from possible aggression. 
Our values include a love for our families, 

school, country, and our faith in God. Our par­
ticipation in the Ranger program reflects 
these values. We are not asking anyone to ac­
cept or endorse these values, but we are as­
king them to respect what we believe in. 
Todd Griffee Notre Dame student 

NO does not prepare students for real world 
Dear Editor: 
Recently, two students were suspended on what has been termed a non-moral violation. This suspensi<!n has cause many students, alumni and even teachers to question the Uni­versity's policies on rules and punishment. I too find the need to question the University's policies on 'this "non-moral issue," but I must also question its policies on moral issues.l realize this is a Catholic institution and it has values and beliefs that it must attempt to up­hold, but its methods arc unacceptable. 
The University enforces "In loco parentis" (In place of parents). Parents, in my view, raise, guid<' and counsel their children. Many parents try to instill their values in their children; however, to force these values upon their children would be considered "improper." Yet the University continues to force its moral values down our throats on campus, in Florida and in Michigan; either you live by them or you do not belong here at this University. Effectively, we, the students, have lost the opportunity to develop our own set of morals by agreeing to its present policy. 
The best moral example I can give is.on the issue ofpremarital sex. What gives the Univer­sity the right to pass moral judgment on what individuals freely choose to do. The Catholic religions I was taught, stated onl}' God has the right to pass judgment. But it is not just the issue of sex, it goes beyond that. The Univer­sity states it is attempting to prepare us for the future, but how prepared can we be ifit make the majority ofour personal, social and moral decisions for us. Even here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, in education courses, stress is put upon guiding or laying the groundwork. It seems to me, what they teach in the classroom is contrary to the present policies. 
Recent letters have pointed out many areas ofdu Lac need revision, but unless continuous pressure is applied by the student body we have no chance at getting a change for the bet­ter. 
Scott Kiley Carroll Hall 

Eliminate NO's HPC and crown Healy king 
DearEditor: 

There has been much talk lately about how worthless the student senate Is and how its members never get anything done because of all the bureaucratic nonsense that gets In the way of Bill Healy, our fearless leader. It recently has been brought to my attention, however, that the Hall Presidents Council Is just as incapable of making decisions as the much maligned Student Senate. Conse­quently, I propose that the senate should vote to abolish the HPC before it is abolished itself. Then, having rid ourselves of both of these worthless instruments of bureaucratic non­sense, we can crown Healy king. 
David O'Neill Dillon Hall 

The ObserYer­
-c= 

f-J.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame duLac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the adm1n1stra11on of e1ther mstitution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­lanes. le"ers and the InSide Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through IaMers. is encouraged. 
culture. It expresses our strengths and weaknesses, our joys and sorrows, our desires and needs. It is freedom undiluted. I have felt this many times; Seeing Bruce Springsteen silence 70,000 people in Cleveland Municipal Stadium by singing "This Land Is Your Land". Watching Bono Vox leap offthe Live Aid stage to dance with a girl. Seeing a frenzied Pete Townshend flail at his guitar until blood ran down his arm in streams. Hearing the scream in the middle of "What I Like About You" in a packed, beer-soaked club and feeling like I could do anything I desired. 
Rock and roll 1s built on these feelings; freedom, passion, exuberance. To censor is to limit and rock and roll is aH about no limits. Rock music is like the people it celebrates: happy, sad, confused, angry, loving, spiteful, going up and going down. But always they are living, stretching their limits, celebrating the emotions that make human beings so unique. Rock and roll is here to stay. It will survive. And that is written in noise. 
And we start to dream ofgrandiose things/ Oh God, Oh God, Oh God/ You gotta keep banging on/ 
Husker Du "Keep Hanging On" 

Krls Murphy Is enrolled in the Freshman Year ofStudies and a features staffwriterfor The Observer. 

Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................ :Frank Lipo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
Operations Board 
Business Manager.. ............. Dav1d Stephen1tch Controller.. . .... William J. H1ghducheck Advertising Manager ..... J1m Hagan Systems Manager.. .... Mark B. Johnson Productton Manager ...................... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer Monday, November 11, 1985-page 10 
Sports Briefs 
Farley Hall completed a perfect 9·0 season and captured its second consecutive title with a 14-8 victory over Pasquerilla East in yesterday's interhall flag football championship game. Details of the game will appear in tomorrow's edition ofThe Observer.· The Observer 
The ND men's and women's basketball teams 
will play intrasquad charity basketball games on Sunday beginning at 
6:30 p.m. Tickets are S 1 for students and can be purchased at Gate 10ofthe ACC. All proceeds will benefit the St.joseph County Special Olympics and the Neighborhood Study Help Program. · The Obser­
ver 

Interhall soccer playoff action resumed yesterday as Holy Cross defeated Flanner, 3·2, in overtime. The victory by Holy Cross moves them into tomorrow's semi-final against Stanford at 7 
p.m. on Cartier Field. ·The Observer 
ND Water Polo Club members who are to take part in the dedication of the new natatorium should meet tonight at 7 
p.m. at the natatorium. Members are reminded to bring suits for practice. For more information call Tom O'Reilly at 283·3588. ·The Observer 
Off-Campus basketball will hold tryouts for the "A" interhall team today at 4 p.m. in the ACC. Check the NVA office in the ACC for correct gym. For more information call Grant Gailius at 288-8422. ·The Observer 
NVA campus all-nighter entry forms are no~ 
available at the NVA office in the ACC and at the Angela Athlet1c Facility. These forms must be turned in by Wednesday. For more information call239-6100. ·The Observer 
The ACC hockeyrink is now available for interhall hockey practice. Individual dormitories may reserve late evening ice time for one hour at a rate of S50 per session. For more informa­tion call Tom Carroll between the hours of 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. at 239-5227. ·The Observer 
, 

NVA basketball officials are needed for co-ree 
basketball, men's and women's interhall, and club basketball. For more information call the NVA office. · The Observer 
NVA team turkeyshootreservations must be sub­mitted by Thursday to the NVA office in the ACC. The event will be held Nov. 18-19 from 4:30-6:00 p.m. at the stadium rifle ran~~e by Gate 14. Teams must consist oftwo men and two women. For more information call the NVA. · The Observer 
Racquetball enthusiasts who are looking fqr 
competition should mail an index card to 308 Walsh Hall by Nov. 22 stating name, address, phone number and skill level. For more in· formation call Michele Debrey at 283-4526. ·The Observer 
NVA Century Club is a program to promot•e in­dividual exercise and fitness. Applicants select an exercise and pledge a personal fitness goal. When the applicant reaches his/her goal, a free Club T-shirt will be given out. To fill out a pledge crurd or to get more information call the NVA office. · The Observer 
NVA fitness focus newsletter is published monthly and is available through campus mail at no expense. To be placed on the mailing list call NVAat 239·5100.-The Observer 
0 bserver Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe pt:rson submitting it. · The Observer 
NVA information is available by calling 239-6100 or I by "opp;ng by the NVA office ;n the ACC. · Tbe 0,_,., 
_j 

Lyle looks to defend his title 
Associated Press 
KAPALUA, Hawaii · British Open champion Sandy Lyle was happily contemplating the defense this week ofhis title in the Kapalua Inter­national Golf Tournament. 
"It's a great start," Lyle said after he won the individual title in the Nissan Cup World Championship· on the same Kapalua Golf Club course that will serve as the venue for the International. 
But it was an even better finish for a determined six-man American team that bolstered sagging interna­tional prestige with an impressive victory in the championship match. 
"Not only am I pleased that we won, I'm even more pleased with the way we won· convincingly," U.S. captain Ray Floyd said. 
The Americans won five of six matches against Europe in the finals Saturday, taking the title by a 10-2 margin in the inaugural Nissan Cup competition that brought together the leading players from the world's four major pro golftours: the United States, Europe, japan and Australia· New Zealand. 
"As a team performance, it was magnificent," American PGA tour Commissioner Deane Beman said. 
"I've been playing or associated with golf for 30 years and I can't recall ever seeing anything like this: every man on the team under par in every match. Unbelievable," Beman said. 
Curtis Strange was very happy to believe it, however. 
"This is something special," said Strange, the leading money-winner on the American tour. "I've been on three losing teams this year, and this is special." 
Floyd also took note of previous American losses in the Ryder Cup, the Dunhill Cup and the ABC cup this season. 
"There's a lot of pride involved," he said. "We'd lost three interna­tional team competitions this year and we certainly didn't want to lose the fourth. 
"We all felt we had something to prove.' We wanted to redeem our­selves." 
Tht• Ohsal't'r :\otrl' l>dmt· ulti<t· lutJil'U on tht· tlurd floor"' I alurtunt· "lll<ll'nl ( t•ntn. Jt «"Pt" la'"fkll J<h nto"ll!o( Irom •I .1 m untoI 1 p m \londJ\ throUJ.th l·rtd..t\ 1be Uf».ttt~rt·t'r "'-..till I \1..tn 'otfu.. c: lu\. Jlt·d on tilt" lhtrd tluor ot HJ!o(Jo(dr <.oii<'Jo(l" < ,·ntn d<< t'P" tiJ"Ifinl' lrom 12 .~1-1 p 111 until ~ p 111 \I on <Ia\ rhou~o:h Fndd\ llt·adluw lur nt·xr l!J\ tJJ,"IinJ, " ~ p 111 .\II tfJ"IIil'tl' mu'l ht· prt·pa•d t·•thn 111 pn,on or h\ 111Jd < hdr!o(t" '' Ill l<'llh p.-r '",. <harJ<
Classifieds 
rn, t·r <.Ia\ 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHIIIa 2J4.3117 
TYPING 
277-10411 
FREE PICKUP & DEUVERY 
S1o-al0 WEEKLY/UP IIIAIUNG CIA­CULAMI NO QUOTAII atNCERELY IN'TEMSTED IIUaH MLF· ADDRI!UED ENVELOPE: auccua, PO IIOX 470CEG, WoooaTOCK, IL 
100111. 
EXPERT TYPING aERVICE. CAU. ..... COKI!JII, 2»-7001. 
EXPEIIIENCED TYPiaT WIU DO TYPING. 111 YEAM EXP. CALL 287· 111112. 
Prol-.ione/ word proce.ing and typing. Convenient location on N. Ironwood. Cell 2n-4220 for appointment. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED IM· MEDIATELY.NOTRE DAME APTS.CHEAP.CALL ALICE 287-7657. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST • ONE GOLD LOOP EARRING ABOUT 6 WEEKS AGO SOMEWHERE BETWEEN PANGBORN AND REGINA. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 284-4006. 

LOST: Gold women'a ND ciMa rl... l*clronyx with a diamond, lnltlala JLT and ae lnalde. 1"-call Joanle at 283-2771. 
Lalit A pair of girl'a ey~ burgundy color lramea, between the Grotto and Flenner. If you have them PLEASE con­tact me at 284·4128. Thankllll 
LOST: Gold Elgin welch, probltbly at Senior Bar on Halloween. Of nntimental value. gift from parentl lor 18th birthdey. If found, pleue call Angela at 272·9623. 
WANTED 

································································ 
Need ride to Piltlburgh lor Thenk8giving break. Cen leave anytime. Call Tereu at 287-6703. 
oR'Ivefi.ro'r:\"Ke'c:\oiu:Ac·;:c;·;;A:Lt.1 
SPGS, CA. EARLY DEC. AUTO EX· PENSE$ PAID. 233-5818. 
FOR SALE 

'75 FIAT aEOAN $650. Need to Nil ASAP! 284-4021 
FOR SALE KENWOOD AM-FM STEREO RECEIVER;SO WAITS/CHANNEL • 2 SETS OF PIONEER CAR SPEAKERS;ROUNO-INMOUNT­MARKUS 2n·OB40 ANYTIME Original French Perfume now available on campue' 3.4 fl. oz. only $18. Imported directly from France. Call 272·5206 bet· ween 6-Bpm and uk lor a product demonstration. 
TICKETS 
I NEED PENN aT & UIU Go\8.212-1301 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 LSU GA'$­WILL PAY TOP $$!CALL JOHN AFTER 11PMAT4601. 
NEED 10 PENN STATE TIX (GA OR STDNT) CALL 4434 
NEED4 LSU GA'S CALL LYNN 284-4023 
WANTED FOR A RICH DOCTOR: 8 GAs in bk>ckl of 2 or more for the LSU game. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Fran at 2687. 
t'U DO ANYTHING lor an LSU student ticket. Call Alicia at 2687. 
NEEDED DESPERATELY: 2 LSU GA'a CALL LAURA 3839 
NEED 3 TICKETS FOR LSU GAME CALL 2n-4324 EVENINGS 

PERSONALS 
............................................................ 
He·s changing. Every day more remote, protected, distant. He builds tear. now f01 the sou/male he hun't found, bricking• wallandmeze andmoun· rain fOIITea, d.,.. her to find him at the hidden center of them all. Here., an A in self·protecOon from the one in the world he might love and who might someday love him. He'a in a race, now. .. wiN ahe find him bef01e he killa himaelf? 
-Richard Bacn., Thallndge Aoroaa Forever 
................................................................ 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
................................................................ 
EARN $$$ FOR ALL THOSE BOOKS YOU DIDN'T READ!! PANDORA'S WILL BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M·F 11-4. OR WE CAN HELP YOU FIND A USED BOOK FOR A CLASS. WE'RE OPEN M· F 11·6. SAT&SUN 10.5. PANDORA'S IS OPPOSITE CORBY'S ] 937 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
UNITED WAY·SAB ROCK-A-liKE IS COMING! THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 14th 
lhenkyou so much st. jude 
Did AMY GRANT speak to your he.tt? Then THE aPIIIITUAL ROCK OF NOTWE DAME ia for you. Join ua for fel­lowship Wednesdays 7:00 p.m. in Keenen Chapel. Questions call Tom 3310, Mike 2338, George 3244_. 
................................................................ 
SENIOR CLAM aKI TWIP At Boyne Mountain Feb. 14-16. Signupa Nov. 12·14 LeFortune Price:$115 $50 NON­REFUNDABLE depoait needed at aign· upa LIMITED SPACE! Queetiona?Senior Clasl Newsletter or call 2n-1067. 
HUNGRY? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houo': Spm·12pm Mondey· Thursday; Spm-2am Fridey; 3pm-1am Saturday; and 4pm-10pm Sun· dey. 
DearND, 

Octoberfest is hE<&. Dire Straitl ia here. We're here and !IOU're not. Please send hate mail c/o lnnnbruck Program 
lnnrain 33/1 
A-60~!0 I nnabruck 
.~uatria 

Love, LJz, Chris Fl., Kalhy, Rob, LJaa (not Susan), Susan (••ot LJaa), Shennan, Joe. Mary, Christy (one way Ucket), Donna, Ann, Eli, Matt and Patty, Amy, Denny, ChriaJ. 
thenk you very much saint jude 

CHIME$-CHIMES·CHIME$-Ia now ac­cepting your POETRY. SHORT STORIES. AND ART WORK. Submit to Max Weatler. 310 Mad. before Dec. tat!!!! 
MORRI~lEY LOAN FUND -·NEW LOCATION·­311EAdBidg (by StJdent Affail'l) 
11 :31)-12:30 M-F 1&20.200 30 dlya 1I interest 

MARGOT HAPPY BIRTHDAY, CARLIN! 
HEY F'UMPKINHEAD-HAPPY 11THIMAY YOUR PARTIES NEVER END!!!Love, The Freehman Who' I Afraid ·she's Going to l urn Out Like You Some­
dey 

Paul Loux and Morty Aneei are lor sale.Cheep!Lets rid the world of wet furniture and "IVMHH the Ship!" Woolie the Ex-Convict 
PITISBURGH CLUB Thanksgiving Bus: MEETING: Thu111 Nov t4 6-7 pm at Little Theatre. LeFortune INFO: Leaves: Wed Nov 27 2:00 pm from CCE(ND) & Holy Crou(SMC) Returns: Sun Dec 1 1:00pm from Greyhound Term. in Pitt. $55 roundtrip, $40 one-way QUESTIONS: CaliA.J. x1844 
SENIOAall SR. IIEFLECnON OfiOUPS SIGN UP AT cac 
HEY DEAN FAUGHTII A personal to let you know I'm very happy we got to spend a long week-end togel· her. Oh yeah, thanka lor corning into my 1ne and changing it forever-LET'S GET HITCHED,BAIYI Aug.2,10 a.m. Let the countdown begin 2621ong days away. I Love You, Maureen 
HOLY CROSS WEEK '85: NOV. •14 MON. BREAKFAST 7·9:30 AM, FIRESIDE CHAT 6:30 TUES. COLOR DAY WED. OPEN HOUSE 3:30-5 PM THURS MISS HOI. Y CROSS CONTEST 
7:00 PM COME JOIN THE FUN 
HAPPY 22NO B·DAY RICK GLORIA STEIN EM 
Happy Birthdey, Rudy Diez! You are no longer a minor! Beverley 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY WOZ 348 LEMAN$ 
THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT Firat there wu John Kennedy. Then there wu Bob Corrigan. Now comee Brian Huskey Nov 12 8-t 1 pm Chameleon Room Free Nachos! 
CARNIVAL OF CAREERS II Tuea Nov 12 3-6pm Angela Athletic F ac Come see what you can do with your MAJOR! 
NSLF looking lor lost 45 child. Why can't we be lriendl? 
------------· 

The Observer Monday, November 11, 1985 -page 11 
Big 10 looks to have six conference teams picked by bowl committees 

ll didn't take the Iowa Hawkeyes long to recover from their loss to Ohio State which cost them the No. I ranking !n the nation the previous week. 
Dropped to No. 6, the Hawkeyes rebounded with a stunning 59-0 vic­tory over IUinols. 
"We came into this game mentally prepared," said Iowa Coach Hayden Fry. "Our team was heartbroken and embarrassed when we lost to a fine Ohio State team. It took a lot of character for us to come back." 
The victory enabled Iowa to retain a share offirst place with Ohio State in the Big Ten race with two games to play. Ohio State defeated Northwestern 35-17 and Michigan, 
Irish· 
continuedfrom page 16 
really rose w the occasion. All that 
we pra<.·ticed against this week, Mis­
sisstppi did. Our defense got our of­
fense fired up and we got together in 
what proved to be a winning com­
bination." 
The defensive duo of Figaro and Lawrence proved to be a winning combination early in the third quarter when they set up a devastat­ing blow to the Rebel cause. 
After Pinkett ( 14 carries, 63 yards) fumbled the ball away at the Notre Dame 27·yard line, Ole Miss seemed to have a grand opportunity to cut the 17-0 Irish lead. But two plays later. Mississippi fullback Joe Mickles took a pitch from quarter­back Osgood only to meet Figaro, whose hit jarred the ball loose and into Lawrence's hands. l.a~ 1cnce took the ball down the left sideline following a Rick DiBernardo block, before being dragged down just short of the Ole Miss goal linr 
Hockey 
continuedfrom page I 6 
zone. We set them up for numerous overloads and breakaways. We were lousy In every phase of the game." 
The Irish came out vastly im­proved in Saturday evening's finale. Once again, though, a two-goal out­burst within 34 seconds sparked the Wolve's 5·3 victory. Already up 1-0 on 1.-tburn's second goal of the series, the Wolves' Bob Waters gat­hered in another loose puck and knocked it by Irish goaltender Marc Guay. Waters tallied again just 34 seconds later when he stuck in a shot from Rick Osburn that had bounced out ofGuay's glove. 
11te Irish finally got on the board at the 9:25 mark on co-captain Dave Waldbillig's short-handed goal. Co­captain Bob 'lltebeau centered to Steve Whitmore who tipped it opt Watdbillig for the score. 
The Wolves increased their lead to 4-1 on a goal by Tim Osburn. The Irish drew to within two when McNeill brought the puck in on a breakaway with Chapman. When Wolf goalie Jim Hatt committed to McNeill, he backhanded the puck to Chapman who flipped it inot the empty net. 
'11te Irish cut the deficit to one on a slapshot from the point by Foley that beat Hatt high to the glove side. '11te Wolves then got some in­

: ****************** 
WANTED: ~ 

: One good used : 
* *
* * 
: Macintosh :* System * 
* * 
: call: ~ 
: 289-4811 days :
* 277-0396 evenings * 
* * 
******************** 
coming back from a 3-3 tie with Il­linois, hammered Purdue 47-0. Mic­higan State downed Indiana 35-16 and Minnesota defeated Wisconsin 
27-18. 

Ohio State and Iowa are tied for the lead with 5-1 records and Mic­higan is a halfstep behind with a 4-1­
1 record In the run for the Rose Bowl. 
By virtue of its 22-13 victory over Iowa the previous week, Ohio State has the edge for the Rose Bowl bid. The Buckeyes go if they win their last two games against Wisconsin and Michigan. 
Iowa could get the nod ifthe Haw­keyes win their last two games against Purdue and Minnesota provided Ohio State loses at least one game. If Michigan wins its last 
Pinkett scored his 52nd career 
touchdown moments later to move 
him into fifth place on the all-time 
NCAA touchdown list and to give 
the Irish a 24-0 margin. 
It was all over at this point. Tight 
end Tom Rehder later took an 
Andrysiak pass 22 yards for a touch· 
down, and frosh tailback Corny 
Southall also added a last-minute 
seven-yard jaunt for his first col­
legiate touchdown to forg.: the 37· 
14 final. 
There is not much time, however, for the Irish to sit back and enjoy this one. Not with Penn State, LSU and Miami looming on the horizon. 
"'11troughout this homestand we have managed to cut down on mistakes and improve our game," said Furjanic. "The offense put the ball in the end zone and the defense kept the ball out of the end zone. We've been building all year for these last three games. 
"We've come back to prove our­selves and had a great homestand. Now we have to go out on the road and prove ourselves at Penn State." 
surance, when with seven seconds remaining in a penalty on Thebeau, Mike Humitz stuck in a rebound from Pat Marody to make the final 5-3. 
Coach Smith was at least pleased with his team's improved play. 
"We played much better than last night. We had two miscues that un­fortunately resulted in scores. For the most part, though, we played 100 percent better." 
Irish co-captain Bob Thebeau agreed with Smith's assessment of the situation. 
"We had a lot more work and en­thusiasm out there tonight," noted Thebeau. "We got out to a good start last night, but then we went into a shell. The three goals put us down. Anytime that happens, it takes the wind out ofyour sales." 
The Irish played the series wit­hout Tom Mooney who had been centering a line with Chapman and two games, including the finale against Ohio State, and Iowa loses again, the Wolverines would get the bid. 
Regardless ofwhat happens, Ohio State, Iowa and Michigan will get bowl bids somewhere. If Ohio State goes to the Rose Bowl and Iowa finishes at 10-1, the Hawkeyes probably would get a "major" bowl bid. 
wt season, the Big Ten sent six teams to various bowls. Illinois, which had appeared to be a likely bowl candidate could be passed up because of the humiliating defeat at Iowa. Minnesota, 6-3 overall and 4-2 in the Big Ten, is looking good as is Michigan State with a 5-4 overall record and a chance to finish at 7-4 with final victories over Northwes­tern and Wisconsin. 
leturdey'a Game 

Miuiuippi  0  0  0  14  14  
Notre Dime  3  14  14  6  - 37  
Scoring  

NO-Garney41 FG 
NO -Pinkett 1 run (Cwney kick) 

NO-Beuertein 14 pua (Garney kick) 
NO -Pinkett 2 run (Carney kick) 

NO -Andryeiak 22 pua (Garney kick) 
MISS -Olgood 10 pua (o-<1 kick) 
MISS -Cleveland 1 run (Owen kick) 
NO -Soulhlllt 7 run (kick failed) 

..,.. 
NO Firat clown& 14 15 Ruohingattempta 45 48 Net Y.-de Ru1hing 128 163 NetYwdeP-ng 93 120 P-comp-attempted 11-24 ~17 Had intercepted 1 0 Total Net Yerdl 221 263 Fumbles-lost 3-1 3-2 Per-..ltiee-yerdl 3-20 7-70 Punta-average 8-44.3 6-36.5 lndlvldu., Le.den 
RUSHING-Miuiuippi: W01181ey 6-34; Cleveland 6-28; Micklet1 ~26; Boatman 2-19; Oagood 8-13; Young 6-11; Syketl 7-8; McKinney 1--11; Notre Dame: Pinkett 14-63; Francisco 12-43; Monahan 5­18:Taylor 1-18; Southlllt 4·16; Stama 5-6: Green 1-5; carter 1-3; Beuertein 1-2; Andryaiak 2--4; Byrne 2­
·7; 

PASSING Mluluippi:Oigood7-13-0,79;McKin­ney 2·5-0,19; Young 2-6-1, -5; Notre Dame: Andryeillk 4-8-0, 60; Beuertein 5-8-Q, 60; Byrne 0-1-o, 0; 
RECEIVING-Miuiuippi: Sykae S-42; My-.3-48; Perry 1-9; Cleveland 1-8: Young1--14; Notre Dame: Brown 3-41; Rehder 2-29; Mill<it 1-20: Ward 1-14; Euoo 1·9: Stama1-7; Attendence -59,075 
Tim Reilly. He was joined on the in­jury list midway through Friday's game by center Mark Anquillare. With two centers out, Smith was forced to juggle his lines. Their ab­sence was keenly felt on the power play, which converted only twice in 12 extra-man advantages.. 
"We weren't able to practice the power play without them," said Smith of the situation. "With some­thing that involves so much timing, that's hard to do." 
On the bright side, the Irish penalty-killing unit allowed only one score in the series while coming up with a short-handed score of their own. 
The Irish will try to get back on the victory trail this Friday and Saturday night when they return to the friendly confines of the ACC for games against St. Thomas. Face oils for both games will be at 7:30. 
London School of Economics and Political Science A chance to study and live in London 
Junior-year programs. Postgraduate Diplomas. One-Year Master's Degrees and Research Opportunities In the Social Sciences. 
The w;de range of subjects ;ncludes 
Accountmg and Fmance • Actuar;al Sc;ence • 
Anthropology • Busmess Stud;es • Econom;cs • 
Econometncs • Econom;c H1story • European 
Stud;es • Geography • Government • lndustnal 
Relat1ons • lnternat;onal H1story • lnternat;onal 
Relat;ons • Law • Management Sc;ence • Operat;onal 
Research • Personnel Management • Philosophy • 
Populat;on Stud;es • Pol;tics • Reg;onal and Urban 
Plann;ng Stud;es • Sea-Use Pol;cy • Soc;al 
Admin1strat1on • Social Planning in Developing 
Countnes • Social Work • Sociology • Social 
Psychology • Statistical and Mathematical Sciences • 
Systems Anaylsis • 
Application forms from: Admissions Registrar, L.S.E.. Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England, stating whether undergraduate or postgraduate and quoting Room 10. 


LSE-----­

Thr ObKrvrr/Hannn Hacker 

A Planner receiver (right) tries to escape the pursuit ofa Grace defender in action from yesterday's interball semifinal. Flanner defeated Grace 6-0 in the game. Greg Stohr bas more on the game onpagel4 
,.-~ll'oo..-"""'I\I..,._'"'\1~--~~.,.."""'S\1..,._~~--~.,...-"""11\f-., 
~ CAMPUS ALL -NIGHTER 
«fJ~#J;t::: Nov. 15,6 pm-Nov. 16, 11 am~A );;. atthe ACC 
\ ENTRIES AVAILABLE AT NVA AND AAF 
DEADLINE: WEDNESDAY, NOV. 13 
COME SUPPORT SPECIAL 0...YMPICS {AND HAVE A GREAT TIME) 
EVENTS 
SKATING

BASKETBALL· MEN'S AND WOMEN'S 
AEROBICS

INDOOR SOCCER· MEN'S AND WOMEN'S TABLE GAMES COREC INNERTUBEWATER POLO RECREATIONAL SWIMMING BROOMBALL· OPEN DIVING FOR DOLLARS COREC VOLLEYBALL 
MUSIC

SQUASH· NOVICE AND ADVANCED CONCESSIONSRACQUETBALL SINGLES· MEN'S AND WOMEN'S MARCt) POLO 
RACQUETBALL MIXED DOUBLES TABLE' TENNIS SINGLES AND DOUBLES 
INFORMA'. US!: OF All FACILITIES IN ACC NERFFOOTBALL·OPEN WHIFFLE BALL ·OPEN WATER BASKETBALL· OPEN 
SPONSORED BY NVA 

130 U.S. 31 North 1 Mile North of Campus 
277-4519 
FREE DELIVERY 
I • I
-------------------------~
1 Monday I Wednesday I Sunday 1 I 14", 1 item I 16", 11tem I 18", 11tem I 
I $5.95 I $7.95 I $9.951 
Call before 11 J Cc!l bebrl? -'! 1 L'Ca11ttefore 9:30 1
L
-----------------------J 

---------------------~---..........-·---­
The Observer Monday, November 11, 1985-page 12 

Bears stay undefeated 
Hues beat Cardinals for first win 
Auociated Press 
"It was old fashioned football -old 
fashioned Bear football," running 
back Walter Payton said ofChicago's 
latest victory, its lOth straight Na· 
tional Football League triumph. 
Payton rushed 26 times for I07 
yards yesterday -his fifth con· 
secutive I00-yard game and the 
69th ofhis career· as the Bears, 24·3 
winners over Detroit, continued 
their best start since the 1942 team 
won all II of its regular season 
games. 
Matt Suhey, usually the blocking 
back for Payton, rushed 16 times for 
I02 yards, his first I00-yard game in 
two years. 
"The weather helped us more than it did Detroit," Bears Coach Mike Ditka said ofthe blustery, rainy and windy conditions in Chicago. 
Bears backup quarterback Steve 
Fuller, playing for the injured Jim 
McMahon, agreed. 
"The weather conditions were devastating," said Fuller. "The toug· hest thing to do is play the Chicago Bear defense on a day like this. But you have to give the credit to the guys who went over I 00 yards and the offensive line." 
Fuller completed seven of 13 passes for I 12 yards, scored on runs ofone and five yards and set up anot· her touchdown by completing passes of 33 and II yards to Payton. 
In other games yesterday, Tampa Bay posted its first victory of the season, blanking the St. Louis Car­dinals 16-0; Philadelphiadowned At· lanta 23-17 in overtime; Cincinnati defeated Cleveland 27-10; Green Bay stopped Minnesota 27·17; Buf­falo blanked Houston 20-0; New England crushed Indianapolis 34-15; the New York Giants defeated the Los Angeles Rams 24·19; Pittsburgh outlasted Kansas City 36·28, and Seattle stopped New Orleans 27·3. 
In late games, San Diego outlasted the Los Angeles Raiders 40-34 in overtime, Miami defeated the New York Jets 21·1 7 and Dallas edged Washington 13-7. 
On Monday night, San Franciso is at Denver. 
Bucs 16, Cardinals 0 
Quarterback Steve DeBerg con­nected with Adger Armstrong on a 1-yard touchdown pass and Donald Igwebuike kicked three long field goals as Tampa Bay halted a nine­game losing streak for the Bucs. The win was only the ninth for Tampa Bay in its last 42 games. 
Igwebuike, a native of Nigeria, kicked field goals of 46, 47 and 50 yards. James Wilder ran for 120 yards on 29 carries and DeBergcom· pleted 11 of2 7 passes for 196yards. 
The triumph was only the ninth for Tampa Bay in its last 42 games and was the first for the franchise un­der Coach Leeman Bennett, who replaced John McKay last winter. It was only the Bucs' second shutout in the club's I0-year history. 
"This football team had battled every Sunday and really deserved to win some other games that we ended up losing for whatever reason," added Bennett, who has watched the 1-9 Bucs lose six times by I 0 points or less. 
"All of us have rehashed those a 
number of times," he continued. 
"But I'm very proud of those guys 
that fought all year. They're beat up 
(injury wise) and still we hung in 
there. 
Eagles 23, Falcons 17 
One play after Atlanta pinned the 
Eagles on their own 1-yard line with 
a punt, quarterback Ron Jaworski 
and wide receiver Mike Quick 
combined on a 99-yard touchdown 
pass play 1% minutes into ovenime 
to give Philadelphia its victory. 
The Eagles, 5·5, had blown a 17·0 
third-period lead before Jaworski 

and Quick combined for the longest 
play ofthe season in the NFL. 
Atlanta, 1·9, had rallied for 17 

points in the final period to tie the 
game with 2:32 remaining. 
Bengals 27, Browns 10 
Second-year quarterback Boomer 

Esiason passed for 262 yards and a 
touchdown, outshining Cleveland 
rookie Bernie Kosar. The Bengals' 
third consecutive victory kept them 
tied for first place in the AFC Central 
Division with Pittsburgh at 5-5. 
Cleveland fell to-4-6 with its fourth 
straight loss. 
Esiason completed 2 3 of3 3 passes 

without an interception, while 
Kosar was 16 of 32 passes for 229 
yards in his fifth pro start. However, 
the rookie was just nine of 22 for 
139 yards going into the game's 

closing minutes. 
Packers 2 7, Vikings 1 7 
Quarterback Lynn Dickey came 

off the bench to lead Green Bay to 
victory, completing nine of 11 
passes for 135 yards, including a 63­
yarder to Phillip Epps that set up a 
1-yard touchdown pass to Eddie Lee 
Ivery. 
The Packers, 4-6, were trailing 

when Dickey replked starter Jim 
Zorn. After Dickey threw to Ivery for 
the go-ahead scor~, Mark Murphy in· 
terecepted a Tommy Kramer pass 
and returned it 50 yards for the 
clincher. 
Bills 20, Oilers 0 

Buffalo, 2-8, was led by quarter­.back Bruce Mathison, making the 
first regular-seaspn start ofhis three· 
year NFL career.·He completed I I of 
22 passes for 121 yards and ran for 
57 yards, including a touchdown. 
The Bills scored on two Scott Nor­

wood field goals, Mathison's 5·yard 
run and a 2-yard run by Greg Bell. 
The shutout was more a tribute to 

Houston's offensive ineffectiveness 
than the Buffalo defense in the game 
played in a steady rain. It was the 
Bills' first shutout since they blanked 
Pittsburgh 13-0 on Dec. 12, 1982. 
Patriots 34, Colts 15 
In a two-minute stretch in the 

third quarter, Irving Fryar scored on 
a 77-yard punt return and a 5-yard 
pass, sparking New England, 7·3, 
over Indianapolis, 3· 7. 
The Patriots scored 17 points 

after three third-quarter fumble 
recoveries, while a second-quarter 
interception by Fred Marion set up 
one of Steve Grogan's two touch· 
down passes. 
Giants 24, Rams 19 

joe Morris scored two second-half touchdowns as the Giants rallied from a 13-point deficit to defeat the Rams. It was the Giants' fourth straight victory. 


The Observer is now accepting ap­plications for 
• Assistant Photo Editor 
Duties will include: coordinating Ac­cent photo assignments and 
darkroom maintenance. 

Applications are due to Pete Laches by 5 p.m. Tuesday, Nov. 12. 
The Giants had trailed 13-0 late in the second quarter but got back into contention on a 36-yard scoring pass from quarterback Phil Simms to wide receiver Bobby johnson with 1 6 seconds left in the half. Eric Schubert added a 40-yard field goal midway through the third quarter to bring the Giants to within 16-10. 
The Rams lone touchdown came on a 1-yard run by Eric Dickerson, who gained I 01 yards on 24 carries. 
Steelers 36, Chiefs 28 
Louis lipps returned a punt 71 yards for the go-ahead touchdown and Gary Anderson kicked a team record five field goals as Pittsburgh pounded Kansas City. 
Anderson's five field goals broke his own record for the Steelers, 5-5. It was the sixth loss in a row for Kansas City, 3-7. 
Seahawks 27, Saints 3 
Quarterback Dave Krieg led a 17­point fourth-quarter explosion and the Seattle defense throttled New Orleans through the final 30 minutes ofplay. Krieg threw for 282 yards and a fourth-quarter touch· down. 
After the game, it was learned New Orleans Coach Bum Phillips kicked nose tackle Tony Elliott off the team midway through the game. 
linebacker Rickey jackson said Phillips pulled Elliott out of the game and criticized him for failing to use proper technique in rushing the quarterback. According to Jackson, Elliott said he was tired of being chop blocked · a block delivered at or below the knees · and Phillips told him he would never play again for New Orleans. 
S.D. 40, Raiders 34 
A 17-yard touchdown dash by lionel james 3:44 into overtime lifted San Diego over the Raiders. The Chargers victory snapped a four-year, seven-game losing streak at the hands ofthe Raiders. 
Quarterback Dan Fouts threw for 436 yards and four touchdowns· the sixth time in his career his has thrown for 400 yards, an NFL record -including a 14-yard strike to Charlie joiner with 53 seconds remaining in regulation to send the game into overtime. 
Raiders quarterback Marc Wilson 
completed 18 of 32 passes for 297 
yards and three touchdowns. 
Dolphins 21,Jets 17 
Returning from a seven-game 
layoff, wide receiver Mark Duper 
caught nine passes for 21 7 yards and 
two touchdowns, one a 50-yarder 
with 41 seconds left to boost Miami 
past theJets. 

Earlier, Duper was on the scoring 
end ofa 60-yard bomb from quarter­
back Dan Marino. Duper's 217-yard 
effort broke the Dolphins single­
game record of 210 yards set by Nat 
Moore against the Jets in 19R1. 
;, ,.,.i 
ThC' Observer/AP Pholo 

M!ami running bad1 is shown above in action earlier in theyear agamst the New YorA1 jets. The Dolphins gained a measure of revenge by defeating tbejets 21-17 after losing to them in theirfirst meeting. More NFL acUon is detailed at right. 
COLLEGE OF ------. BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION The O'Ni4el Lecture Series 
Speaker: 

DAVID LEWIN 
David Lewin Is Professor of Business, Director of the Business School Ph.D. Program, and Director of the Industrial Relation• Research Center at Columbia University. The Author of four books and numerous articles in scholarly and professional journals. Professor Lewin has also recently completed papers on "Conftlct Resolution In the Nonunion High Technology Firm," "The National labor Relations Act at 50: A ~:esearch Appraisal and Agenda," "Public Employee Unionism and Labor Relation" In the 1980's: An Analysis of Transformation," and "The Effects of Divesture on Bargaining Structure at A.T.&T. 
At Columbia, Professor Lewin teaches courses In human resource management, laborrelations and research methods in both the M.B.A. and Ph.D. ~ograms. He is also htculty Director of the Loimbia Executive Program, Managing theEnterprlse, and •>f the Columbia-IBM Peroonnellnstitute. He sen:P; as a consultent to Industry, labor, and governntent. 
To,>ic:  "The National Labor Relations Act at 50"  
Date·  Thursday. November 14. l'J~5  
Time and Place:  

12:15p.m. Faculty SE•minar Board Hoom, Hayes-Healy 
Ali members ojthe Unlv.~rsity of Notre Dome Faculty are Invited 4:15p.m.• lecrur~::~ an.::t panel discussion, Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Room 122) 
.._. Faculty, students, and the public are invited 

Chinese, Vietnamese & American Food 
O~riental Express
Carry Out Din~ ng I(Oom 272-6702 e' ~e 
6329 University commons ~\0'0 
Just West ofUniversity Park Mall ~...a 
on State Road23, Next to Kroger 
Mon. &Weds. 1 0"/.0ff with dining room coupon only 
························-···················· 
Saint M,ary's students! 
Need to Jl~ublicize an event? Need to place a classified ad? Have a co1mpliment or gripe? 
-Ihe-O.Jbse_-~!0.__ 309 
Haggar

--. ---'1 --A.-=Y=-'-"A---­Center 
~-------------------~----------~~---------------------------­
Irish wrestling team opens season with a strong sixth-place finish 
By EDJORDANICH The best finish for an Irish steppingstone for the Irish and anot· Sports Writer wrestler was second. Senior captain her excellent opportunity for im· John Krug was runner-up in the 177· provement against this year's The Notre Dame wrestling team lb. class. Other grapplers to place top-flight schedule. Oklahoma, ll· hc:gan its season Saturday with a were senior Eric Crown, fifth at I 18 linois and Missouri will be the sixth-place finish in the Michigan lbs., and sophomore Ken Kasler, heavyweights at the meet, which State Invitational. The nine-team fourth at I 5H lbs. will include a freshman·sophmore tourney, won hy Central Michigan, ''I was glad about the number of division as well. This format will give was tht· initial test for the young and kids we placed," said McCann. "The McCann a chance to expose his inexperienced Irish, whose !O-man points we totaled this year would freshmen to some tough opponents, squad included six freshmen. have put us much higher than sixth and also let some other underclas· 
in last year's final standings. We smen gain experience against other 
Coach Fran McCann was pleased finished ahead ofa good team in our wrestlers at their level ofability. with some of the individual perfor· region (Eastern Illinois), and I think mances over the weekend and only a the tournament gave our kids the IRISH ITEMS . McCann and his little disappointed with the team's confidence that they can beat a team wrestlers will have to wait for the finish. Three of the freshmen ·Jerry like Michigan State (which finished good things expected from I 50-lb. Durso at t.H lbs., Pat Boyd at 142 third)." freshman Greg Goad. Goad, ranked lhs. and Chris Genesee at 167 lbs. · "I'll look at the tapes of the as the number-one wrestler in the 
pla<:ed third in their weight classes, matches with the team and we'll pin· nation at 150 lbs. last year, strained and all three lost close matches to point the improvements necessary," tendons and ligaments in his elbow 
the: eventual class winners. continued McCann. "I think some of during last week's wrestle-offi; and "I was· happy with the way the us got a little tired. We've con· will be out for possibly a month ... freshmen performed," said McCann. centrated mainly on teaching and l 126-lb. freshman Dan Carlin 
"They had a good deal more poise expected us to lack some polish due sprained an ankle in his first-round and confidence than freshmen to the conditioning factor." match Saturday and had to default. usually do, and they're the chief The next competition for Notre The injury was not serious and Car­reason this team has the bright Dame will come November 23 at the lin should be able to practice by 
future it does." St. Louis Open I! will he another Wednesday. 
and put the game out of reach "I think the most important part of Outside linebacker Cedric Figaro this game is that we are now starting
Defense 
pi~' ed a fine game in deflecting two to become a unit," he stated. "We're continued/rom page 16 passes, forcing the fumble which led exet·uting better now and the down the Rebel offense and turning to the return by uwrence and players have more confidence in the game into a rout. making five tackles. themselves. We have a tough road 
"Our defense is doing real well Inside linebacker Tony Furjanic ahead of us and we couldn't go out and getting better," he said. "They led the team with eight tackles, there and win ifwe didn't pull toget· have confidence and arc working while Mike Kovaleski added seven, her like we have over the past four hard. The pass rush was good today including two for losses. Matt Din· games." and the secondary was excellent." gens, Ron Wc:issenhofer and Wes Penn State is the next game on this 
Senior tackle Eric Dorsey led the Pritchett played important reserve road, and could be the toughest. The way for the Irish, totaling six tackles roles, contributing five tackles Notre Dame defense came together Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein unloads the ball in Saturday's and a quarterhack sack for a loss of apiece. to crush the Rebel offense, and must 37·14 victory over the Mississippi Rebels. Beuerlein finished the 
I~ yards. Dorsey continually Early in the year the Irish defense continue to improve if the Nittany game withfive completionsfor 60yards on the game. Marty Burns pn·ssured the quarterback and also was much maligned, especially for Uons are to become another presents details ofthegame on page 16. made several important stops on its problems on the line against Mic· number-one team to fall to the Irish. running plays. higan and for its trouble stopping 
Mississippi guard Tony Rayburn the Purdue passing game. had trouble: with the bigger and However, after the I· 3 start the 
Flyer goaltender Lindbergh hurt,
quicker Dorsey all day. defense has turned itself around and "Dorsey is a helluva football has been a major factor in the Irish player," Rayburn conceded. "In fact, going undefeated in their four-game 
near death after accident yesterday 
lw's the: ht·st I've playt·d against this homestand. year." Dorsey and his teammates have Associated Press Undbergh slammed his car into a "It was felt they should all be 
Junior safety Steve LOJ'IHence ren:ived a lot of praise the past few 3·foot·high cement wall in front ofa together and told what has hap· made two big plays to get tht· Irish weeks for their fine play, but he feels STRATFORD, N.J. Pelle schoolhouse in nearby Somerdale, pened. They're all very shaken. It's a started and later keep Mississippi some of the credit should go to the Undbergh ofthe Philadelphia Flyers, said police officer Frank Rizzo. The tragedy of the most overwhelming from coming back. He intercepted coaches. the top goaltender in the National policeman said Undbergh "failed to proportions," Gottlieb said. Youn~t's pass in the second quarter "We can't take all the credit," Dor· Hockey League last year, was brain negotiate aturn" about 5:41 a.m. Viner said Undbergh's family ami returned it 27 yards to the Ole sey explained. "Coach Lantz really dead yesterday, hours after his Viner said Undbergh stopped members "face the possibility" of Mis..~ 4H to set up the: first Irish touch· coached us well because Mississippi sports car failed to make a sharp turn breathing at the time ofthe accident having to decide whether to discon· down drive. did everything we did in practice and slammed into a cement wall. and did not resume until he was put nect him from life-sustaining mac· 
In the: third quarter with the Irish that we thought they would do. The 26-year·old Lindbergh was on the respirator at the hospital hinery. leading 17·0, the Rebels finally had a "We're getting better, especially beingkeptalivebyarespiratoratthe abom 15 minutes later. "We can't do anything about chance to make the game close after with Wally Kleine coming back next John F. Kennedy Hospital-Stratford The lack ofoxygen "damaged the making that kind of decision until recovering an Allen Pinkett fumble week," he continued. "Jeff Kunz and Division, said Flyers spokesman brain secondarily," Viner said. "So they come to grips with this," the on the Notre Dame 27 yard line. On Matt Dingens did real well. They are Rodger Gottlieb. we have a very, very serious situa· doctor said. He said such a decision the second p!ay I.OJwrcnn· un!>dfish, and perfect examples of Dr. Edward Viner, the team tion." would come today at the very ear· 
recovered a fumbk in midair and doing exat·tly what the coachessay." returned it 79 yards to the: Missis· Figaro described how the Irish sippi five yard line. The Irish scored defense has turned itself around thrt't' plays later to take: a .H·O lead durin!( their winnin~ streak. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 
physician, said Lindbergh had been  The  Swedish-born  Lindbergh's  liest.  
drinking and that "it is conceivable  fiancee and his mother, Anna Lisa  Undbergh, in his fourth year in  
that alcohol had something to do  Lindbergh,  visiting  from  Sweden,  the National Hockey League,  won  
with this accident."  were at the hospital, Gottlieb said.  the Vezina Trophy last year as the  
"The hope for recovery is really  He said Flyer's coach Mike Keenan  league's top goaltender. With a 40·  
nil," Viner said. He said Lindbergh  was also at the hospital with other  17· 7 regular season record, he was  
suffered "a very serious injury to the  team members, but they left for an  only the third goaltender in Flyers'  
brain stem" which controls basic  emergency meeting at their practice  history to record 40 or more wins.  
functions, including breathing.  rink.  He  was  a  member  of the  1980  

~~<Q><.e""<:?><.Q'MoQJ«'~7>«~Ql<Q><.e"'<.,....f7>r.Q>«ll""<:?><.l?><oQJ«'"><.::»""?>c.D><L>ll! Swedish Olympic team, and was the 
NOTRE DAME Presents: 
JOSEPH HOLMES DANCE THEATRE 
,..........,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.~ 
·········~······························.,··········· 
fPremiere Chicago Group's First Area Appearance 
1 SAT., NOV. 16-8P.M. 
! Washington Hall-Notre Dame Campus 
American Hockey League's most 
valuable player and rookie of the 1981 with the Mainer 
-NOTICE­MEN&WOMEN 
17·62 
TRAIN NOW FOR 
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMS 
No High School Necessary Positions Start As High As $9·22 HOUR 
• 
POST OFFICE • CLERICAL 

• 
MECHANICS • INSPECTORS 


K..,,....,JobWhllePr~rlng
AtHomeForOovemmentEx•m• 
Tickets $8 (reserved seating) Write & Include Phone No. available at Century Center; National Training Roc Du Lac Records, Lafortune Student 
Service, Inc. 
Center and at the door.
.,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,......... 
The Observer Monday, November 11, 1985-page 14 
Alumni uses defense 1to beat Sorin, goes on to interhall cltampionship 

B}' MICHAEL KEEGAN 
Sports Writer 
Defense!! 

When the interhall football game between Alumni and Sorin had ended, the Alumni defense had con­timied its dominating play, leading the team to a 7-0 victory. The previously unscored upon Sorin team had yielded a touchdown, while its powerful offense struggled to get a first down. 
Alumni never allowed the Sorin offense to even come close to the goal line. Bob Debroux, an offensive and defensive lineman for the Alumni team, believed that Sunday's defensive showing was the best he has seen in three years. 
·'The defense really played well," said Debroux. 'Everyone gave their all. The line surge was incredible. It was all in all the best defensive showing I have seen in three years." 
The only scoring drive came on Alumni's first possession. To open 
Planner beats Grace in semifinals, takes fifth inter hall win in a row 
By GREG STOHR 
Sports Writer 
With a little help from some cold, rainy weather conditions, Flanner avenged an early-season loss to Grace by surprising the Green Machine, 6-0, yesterday to advance to the championship game ofthe in­terhall football playoffii. Flanner will face Alumni on Nov. 24 in the stadium for the championship. 
A 12-yard touchdown pass from Randy Bridgeman to Fred Achecar in the second quarter provided the dif­ference. Bridgeman h\t Achecar on the five-yard line, and the freshman struggled into the end zone for the score. 
"It was kind of a joke," said Ac­hecar. "His (Bridgeman's) hands were so numb that the ball kind of slipped out of his hands. I don't know how it got to me." 
Fortunately for Flanner it did,'because the 40-degree weather and constant misty rain prevented any further scoring. Grace, in fact, never approached the Flanner goal line. Fumbles and dropped snaps plagued the Machine throughout the game. 
"They were having problems keeping the ball dry, and my hands were really cold," said Grace quar­terback John Mihalovich. "But we just didn't put anything together." 
Credit the Flanner defense, led by linebacker Robby DiLoreto, for that. Flanner's strong pass rush and inter­ior dominance kept Grace in its own half of the field for almost the entire game. 
"Our defense looked really good," said Flanner captain Tom Sullivan. 

"We had the advantage because they relied on outside runs." 
Flanner threatened to score several times in the second half but could not reach the end zone. An im­pressive 51-yard drive in the third quarter ended in a fumble on Grace's 25. In the fourth period Flan­ner failed to capitalize when Grace fumbled on its own 25. 
Standout Flanner running back Tim Arnold thought the play of his offensive line keyed Flanner's of­fensive attack. 
"We had some pretty good holes up front by the lineman," said Ar­nold, who suffered a minor knee sprain during the game. "We played a lot more aggressively than they did." 
Grace ends its season at 4-2. Flan­ner, which has won its last five 
games, moved to 5-1-1 with the win. ~-----------·------------------., 
AI Unser, Sr. wins Indy-car tour with fourth-place finish Saturday 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -As hard as he tried, there was no way Al Unser could keep from taking chances. 
The 46-year-old driver from Albu­querque, N.M., started Saturday's Beatrice Indy Challenge with a three-point lead over his son, Al Un­ser Jr. in the CART-PPG Indy-car championship race. 
When the dust that blew up all over Miami's Tamiami Park during the 200-mile event settled, Danny Sullivan had his first victory since the Indianapolis 500 in May and teammate Unser Sr. was the cham­pion by one point. 
Sullivan outdueled pole-starter Bobby Rahal for the victory, driving the same car in which he won Indy. Meanwhile, the elder Unser won the race within a race by finishing fourth, only about 100 yards behind his 23-year-old son. 
That gave Unser Sr. the season title and the accompanying $300,000 by a margin of 151-150, while the son will have to settle for second and a $200,000 payoff after losing his first real shot at a title. 
Rahal locked up third place and Sl25,000, while Sullivan's victory moved him past Mario Andretti into fourth, earning Sullivan an addi­tional S110,000 and raising his season race earnings to an Indy-car series record S950,432. 
Andretti, who went out in a three­car accident on the first turn of the first lap Saturday, set the previous record of 5931,929 last year when he won the championship. 
The more than 50,000 spectators on hand for the inaugural Miami Indy-car race got into the spirit of the family championship battle, par­ticularly when the senior Unser moved up to fifth on the 83rd of 112 laps, with only Brazilian rookie Roberto Moreno between him and his son. 
"I knew exactly what the situation was all the time," said Unser Sr., who previously won the title in 1970 and 1983. "Mr. Penske keeps you very informed. I think he runs the race with you." 
He was referring to team owner Roger Penske, who manned the team's headset in the pits during the race. 
"It was very tough out there be­cause you don't want to make a mistake," Unser noted. "At the end, I had to take a few chances, but you have to do that sometimes in racing." 
The biggest chance was passing Moreno, who had run strongly throughout the race. The move came on lap 108 after the elder Un­ser spent several previous laps set­ting it up. 
"I worked on him in that spot (in the second turn) for a couple of laps," Unser said. "I watchedwhat he was doing there, the line he was taking and I made a couple of outside moves to get him thinking. Then I knew I had to do it and I went inside of him. We came close to hit­ting. Then I got away from him as quick as I could so he wouldn't pass me back." 

It was a masterful veteran move that his son may have appreciated more than most of the people who saw it. 
"Dad is smart and a great driver," said the disappointed Unser Jr. "I think my dad knew exactly what he was doing and what he wanted to do. I'm so happy for dad." 
But the youngster, uncharac­teristically quiet, did not come to the press tent for a post-race inter­view. There was no explanation, but a source close to Unser Jr. said he simply didn't want to celebrate with his father when the people on his own team felt so badly about losing the title. 
"I'm sad for myself and my crew, who had worked so hard for this," the younger Unser said. "We just fell short today. I was trying to stay with Sullivan and stayout ofthe trouble at the same time. It was a tough day." 
Rahal dominated the race until his second pit stop. Both Sullivan, who took the lead when he came out of the pits after his own quick stop on lap 79, and jan Lammers of Holland, moved ahead ofRahal at that point. 
Lammers fell by the wayside when he went too deep into a turn and wound up in a sand pit. That left Sul­livan leading Rahal, who fell steadily further behind because of blistering tires which in turn caused poor han­dling. 
"My pit was telling me I was 
gaining (on Rahal), and I suspected 
what his problem was," Sullivan ex­
plained. "But, with Bobby, you can 
never back off. I knew we couldn't 
back off until we got a 16 or 17 
second lead " the contest, Alumni, behind the play of a powerful line, marched down the field and scored on a qiLlarter­back sneak by Ken Schuermann. The Alumni drive consisted ofkey recep­tions by Bill Kelly and Paul Laughlin, coupled with strong running by Tim Smith. Laughlin, the team captain, considers the play of the ofl'ensive line the key to the team's suc<:ess. 
"The line was surging forwad ex­tremely well," said Laughlin. "Joe Puetz, the center, Ned Gaffney and Vince Lowell, the gaurds, a111d Bob Debroux and Bill Smith, oflfensive tackles, played a great game. Our backs were able to get at least three yards, just because that is how far the defensive line for Sorin was pushed back on almost every play." 
Following the opening scoring drive, the Alumni Dog defense took over. Sorin's initial drive end(:d after only four plays with the Dogs making a strong fourth-dowl1t stand. With only one yard to go, Soriln tried to run up the middle only to find a unbending front led by nosetackle Jim Gero. 
After an interception by Sorin's Jim Callaghan, Sorin once again tried to get its offense rolling, only to be held to one yard by the Dog defense. Later,a high snap left Alumni with the ball on the two, forcing them to punt. Sorin had great field position on the 30 following the punt, but on a fourth-down effort a tipped ball fell short ofa receiver, ending th•e drive. On the final drive of the first half by the Sorin Otters, a fumbled pitch was recovered by both Mark Gibbs andJim Gero. 
The second half proved to be no different. Both defenses played well, and consequently no points were scored. Sorin's second-half drives resulted in two punts and a key in­terception bv Alumni's Jim Goebel. 

The interception came after a thirty­yard pass completion from Otter quarterback Mike Kurowski to Dan Lally. Because the pass put Sorin inside the Alumni 30 with only three minutes remaining, the interception stopped the drive and preserved an Alumni vict!lry. Laughlin felt that Jim's interception was the pinnacle ofa great game played by Jim. 
"Jim Goebel played inspired foot­
ball when he came in on key 
defensive situations," said Laughlin. 
"He made the interception in the 
end that helped our cause. He was 
right around the ball all day." 
The Sorin defense played ade­
quately in holding the Alumni of­
fense in check, except for the 
opening drive. Assistant Otter coach 
Mike Scotty felt that their 
defense'did its job. 
"The defense held Alumni in 
check after the initial drive," uttered 
Scotty. "We gave our best effort; 
they were just better today. Alumni 
has a well-ballanced attack, and they 
play enthusiastic, hard-hitting foot­
ball." 
Bob Debroux felt that the Dog team was a little worried that no one had ever scored upon Sorin, but after the initial drive, all worry was wiped away. 
"We didn't know what to expect from a team that no one had scored upon all season," said Debroux. "After our initial scoring drive, we knew we could get the job done. The defense as well as the offense came off the ball well. Team pursuit and gang tackling was great. We were basically very excited. We never lost that excitement as all our fans cheered us on to victory." 
On Nov. 24th, Alumni will face Flanner for the championship at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Support the 

Marcl1 of Dimes 
BIRTH tiEFEClS FOUNDATION 
What makes Mondayspecial? 

One call, three friend'S••• and our $7.99 Monday spe!Cial. 
One call to DOMINO'S; PIZZA® gets you our Monday !lpecial­a 16-inch, single topping pizza for just $7.99. It's a grE•at way to get together with thlree other students and enjoy a hot, custom-made pizza for about $2 each~ 
And Domino's Pizza Delivers·• 
Free. In 30 minutes or less, or 
you get $3 off your order. 

So make Monday special with our $7.99 Monday special. It's available all evening every Monday. Only from Domino's Pizza"·. 
Call us: 
277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00 No coupon necessary. Just request the Monday spec•al "16-inch p1zza generally serves 3·5 people Limited delivery area. ( 1985 Dommo·s PIZZa, Inc. 

DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS® FREE. 


'JI['4(Jt~C3L~-------------------------------------------M·o•n•d•a•y•,•N•o•v•e•m--b.er
__1_1_,_19•8•5--·-p-ag_e__1..5 
Bloom County 
If HALLeY'S 

Cf)ttcr IS V<WNA WffOMf Me ON 1H€ YeS, HEAP I liTt.E~T f3(ff fiN 
WI/NT TrJ Pic RrmACTII£ UXJKrNV NOf!OPY. fTTrRIICTfVE•. 
I., 

Zeto 
OU MY, YOU USED AIIJUMI3ER 3 ~CJd 
I PON'T (3E'L.IEVE' 
tr! ETH£d 

ACROSS 1 Ultimate 5 Whalecon· 
stellatlon 1 0 Before book 
or roll 14 Pallid 15 Go-between 16 Start of poise 
and table 17 Adjudicate 18 Be a copycat 20 Aida's lover 22 Enliven 23 Burden 
' 24 Tableau 25 Truckles 27 Sheep 28 Parting words 32 Fr. airport 33 Sault -Marie 34 6-wlnged angel 35 Creek 36 USnaval 
officer 38 Pension lay· away acronym 39 Sex ¢)1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights ReserveG
41 Pourboire 
42 Light Weekend's Solution 43 Ancient 6 Alter and 44 Lamprey super 
45 Gl's alarm 7 -Aviv 
clock 6 Loosen the 46 Kind of energy strings 48 Kind of bean 9 Rhine follower 
49 Judge 10 SIIIIY 52 Funnyman 11 -vitae 55 Woo sollcl· 12 Night: Fr. 
tously 13 Flying toy 57 Charter 19 Cold period 58 What's left 21 School subj. 
over 24 Cardigan 59 Personal stall 25 Do without 60 "Don't tread-" 26 "Tempest" 61 Devours prankster 62 Gantry or Rice 27 Lat. abbr. 63 Minced oath 29 Hazardous 
driving DOWN practice 1 Lion lmper· 30 "-In Paris" 40 Ceases 50 Large bird 
son a tor 31 Dishonor 42 Private eye 51 Woody fiber 2 Befuddled 33 Pulpit talk: 44 Scolding 52 Seeger or Rose 3 Realmof abbr. 45 Receptacle 53 Columnist 
phantasy 34 Eatlate 47 Rental contract Bombeck 4 Despotism 36 Signify 48 Temptress 54 Organ part 5 Bistros 37 Sesame 49 Farm measure 56 Comic Conway 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
II tti£TIIf'fKJI? WCI CIIN m 
FOR 1HIS Rci!CH Me fiT 7H r 6£Nef(f/T70Jol ''JOliN COUINS If FVf tvel? PAINT !WI? 
H£111?1? cA'lf . BOI?YWORK I CI.INIC: I
0? \ 
'---·-~ 
Kevin Walsh 
HE:s OODMEDl AAA HA f4A{ W'AAT A kUJT.d ~ HOO f./M H£'1 MILDRED! C'MBE{ r;=.=:=:=::: 
At Maneaters Anonymous 

Campus -~· .. 
•4:00 
P.M.. Lecture, "Greek Epic and Praise .International Student Lounge, LaFortune Stu· Poetry: Questions of Genre", Gregory Nagy, dent Center, Sponsored by Foreign Study Harvard University, Library Auditorium, Programs Sponsored by Exxon Distinguished Visiting •7:00 P.M. -Presentadon and Recepdon, Scholar Series and The College ofArts and Let· Salomon Bros., Inc., Alumni Room, Morris Inn, ters Sponsored by Career and Plac.:ment Servlc.:s, 

•4:00 
P.M. · Lecture, Law in the Service of Open to all CAPP, Math CS, Physics, Applied Man, Raja Shehadeh, Room 122 Hayes-Healy, Math and Engineering Seniors inter.:st.:d in Sponsored by Mediterranean/Middle East career opportunities with Salomon Bros., Inc. Concentration in Anthropology •8:00 P.M. -Meedng, Gameroom, Haggar 


· •6:30 P.M.· FUm, "Misunderstanding China", College Center, Sponsored by Circk K 
Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's Chicken Tetrazzlni Veal Madelln Lasagna Beef Pot Pie Bologna with Green Pepper and Onion Spinach Crepes Vegetable Quiche Italian Sausag.: Risotto 
TV Tonight  
6:00P.M.  16  NI:WSCmt.:r 16  9:30P.M.  22  Newhart  
22  22 Eyewitness News  !O:OOP.M.  22  capey and l.ac.:y  
6:30P.M.  16  NBC Nightly News  34  1bc Unknown Soldier  
22  CBS Evming News  46  Church Growth International  
7:00P.M.  16  MASH  !0:30P.M.  46  Ught and Uvely  
22  Thr.:e's company  ll:OOP.M.  16  NI:WSCcnter 16  
7:30P.M.  16  Barney Miller  22  22 Eyewitness News  
22  WKRP In Cincinnati  34  Body Electric  
8:00P.M.  16  TV Bloopers  46  Pralac the Lord  
22  Scarecrow and Mrs. King  
28  Hardcastle and McCormick  11:30P.M.  16  Tonight Show  
34  Wonderworks  2l  Remington  Steele/CBS  Late  
8:30P.M.  46  Calvary Temple  Movie: "Shining Seas"  
9:00P.M.  16  Monday Night Movie: "An Early  34  FUm Du jour: "Immortal Bat·  
Frost"  tallon"  
22  Kat.: and Alllc  !2:00A.M.  28  WSJV N.:wswatch 28  
28  NFL Monday Night Football: San  !2:30A.M.  16  David Lcttennan Show  
Francisco at Dcnv.:r  28  ABC News Nighdine  
34  The Brain  2:00A.M.  22  Nightwatch  
46  LcscaAlive  46  Independent Network News  

--~---~ ----­
Monday, November 11, 1985 -page 16
Seorts 
Irish take easy win over Ole Miss; Lions up next 
Both Irish quarterbacks perform Wtell in 37-14 win 
By MAR1Y BURNS 
AssistantSportsEditor 
All last week, Notre Dame head coach Gerry Fau~t thought he had a quarterback problem. But Missis· sippi showed it had a biggt:r one of its own Saturday afternoon at Notre Dame Stadium as the Irish defense feasted on two Ole Miss freshman quarterbacks to set up a 37-14 pas· ting of the outmanned Rebds. 
Faust's problem was all along one of the better nature, of course. He had to choose between junior Steve Beuerlein, who had started 27 ofthe previous 29 games, or sophomore sensation Terry Andrysiak, architect oflast week's demolition ofNavy. AI· though it was Andrysiak who got the start, both quarterbacks played ade· quately in a game in which the defense repeatedly set up the of· fense. When the interesting side· battle was over, Andry:;iak had completed four of eight passes for 60 yards and one touchdown. Beuerlein, meanwhile, had tossed for five completions in eight at· tempts for 60 yards and a touch· down. 
The standoff between the two 
signal-callers will give 9·0·0 Penn 
State that much more to think about 
when it hosts the 5·3 Irish in State 
College, Penn. next Saturday. The 
Lions are currently ranked! atop the 
UPI coaches poll, and should receive 
the No. I spot this week in the AP 
poll after Florida's loss to Georgia on 
Saturday. 
According to Faust, a starter at 
quarterback will not be named until 
later in the week when tbe coaches 
have had the chance to r·~view the 
performances of the two contes­
tants. 
This entire situation is a great deal 
better than the one which faced Ole 
Miss head coach Billy Brewer before 
the match with Notre Dame. The 
third-year coach had to play fresh­
men quarterbacks Mark Young and 
Chris Osgood in place of record· 
setting senior Kent Austin, who was 
lost for the season the wt:ek before 
with a recurring knee injury. 
This youth at quarterback, coupled with some untimely mistakes by the Rebels, pr-oved fatal to any upset hopes by the visitors. 
"Notre Dame is a very talented football team and we jus1t couldn't do anything with them today," said Brewer. "We performed well in spurts. We had good field position early but threw an interception. Every time we created something, we would self-destruct." 
The early interception Brewer was referring to occured moments into the second quarter when start· ing quarterback Young, who left the game soon after with two comple· tions in six attempts, threw under heavy pressure from inside Notre Dame territory. Irish safety Steve Lawrence easily intercepted the ball at his own 25-yard line and scam­pered 27 yards across the field. 
The interception not only set up Notre Dame's next score, a goal-line plunge by tailback Allen Pinkett to make it I0-0 Irish, but it took the wind out ofan Ole Miss attack which would manage only 55 yards oftotal offense for the half. It also gave a proverbial kick in the rear to the Notre Dame offense, which seemed stuck in the mud caused by the heavy rain and the Rebel defense. 
"My interception proved to be what some call the turning point," said Lawrence. "Itwas agift. The first thing I thought of when I saw the ball in the air was that I could run with it and run long. However, I was one small part in a big win. Things just started clicking after that." 
Things certainly clicked on the next possession of the Irish as they took the ball 73 yards for a touch· down, virtually finishing off the Rebel cause before the end of the half. On the drive Beuerlein con· nected on three lengthy passes, the last of which went to wide-open flanker Tim Brown for a I4-yard touchdown pass after the Ole Miss defender had slipped on the wet turf. 
"Early in the game they caused us 
problems by jumping around on 
defense," said Beuerlein. "But as 
soon as we settled down we went 
right at them." 
"We stuck to our game plan," said 
Faust. "We had a slow start, but once 
we got the ball moving it went like 
we wanted. We told ourdefense that 
we had to shut Mississippi's offense 
down because we thought we 
would have problems moving the 
ball on them." 
Consider it done. The Irish 
defense must have heard the coach's 
plea, for it continued its fine play of 
late, keeping Ole Miss off the board 
until late in the game when the 
reserves came off the bench. Senior 
tackle Eric Dorsey (six tackles) 
spent much of the afternoon in the 
Rebel huddle, while lineback· 
ersCedric Figaro, Tony Furjanic and 
Mike Kovaleski applied the crunch 
to the Ole Miss running game. 
"Number 7I (Dorsey) is one of 
the best damn guys we've seen," said 
Brewer. "He's a good player. They 
are all playing with a lot of consis· 
tency." 
"I had a good time out there today," said Dorsey. "The defense see IRISH, page 11 

Recruit verbally commits 
Spcdal to The Obsenelr 
Keith Robinson, ont: of the na­tion's top high school basketball players, has made a verbal com· mitment to attend Notre Dame next year. 
A 6-9, l9S-pound forward, Robinson averaged 26.2 points and I6 rebounds for Grover Cleveland High School in Buffalo, N.Y., last season as the school won the Buffalo city champion· ship. 
Late last week, Robinson told 
the Buffalo Evening N·~s why he 
had chosen Notre Dame. 
"I'll get the best ofboth worlds at Notre Dame · outstanding academics and a great basketball program," he said. "I like the people and campus, and Art Serotte (Robinson's high school coach) and Digger Phelps are the same types of personalities." 
Robinson was rated the 27th best player in the country in a preseason ranking by The Sport­ing News. Street and Smith tabbed him a high honorable mention on its preseason All­America team. 
He joi_ns three other high school players who will sign the national letter-of-intent to play for Notre Dame on Wednesday, the first day high school players are allowed to do so. The others are: Scott Paddock, a 6-9 center· forward from Plantation, Fla.; TonyJackson, a 6-7 forward from Weston Conn.; andJoe Frederick, a 6-4 guard from Cincinnati. 


Notre Dame linebacker (42) stretches to pull down Nathan Wonsley (32) ofMississippi in Satur­day's game. Wonsley managed only 34 yards against an inspired Irish defense in his team's 37· 
Strong Irish defense leads charge by holding Mississippi in check 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
.Sports Writer 

Much of the pregame talk about the Nptre Dame-Mississippi game concerned the Irish quarterback competition. Would Coach Gerry Faust start the veteran Steve Beur­lein or the newcomer Terry Andrysiak? 
As it turned out, the Notre Dame quarterback situation had little ef­fect on the outcome of the game, as both Beurlein and Andrysiak played well at times, each leading the team to two touchdowns in the Irish's 37· I4win. 
In fact, the quarterbacking problems of Ole Miss had a much greater impact on the game. Stan­dout Rebel quarterback Kent Austin injured his left knee during a loss to LSU last week, and MissiS§,ippi was forced to go most of the way with inexperienced freshmen quarter­backs Mark Young and Chris Os· good. 
Young received the starting nod and guided Ole. Miss for the first six possessions of the first half. The of­fense struggled, as they were forced to punt on five occassions while suf· fering an interception on the other. 
Mississippi Coach Billy Brewer finally put in Osgood for the final possession of the frrst half, and then for most of the second half. Osgood fared better than Young, as he com· pleted seven of I3 pasSies for 79 yards and one touchdown. These figures are misleading, however, as the two Rebel touchdown drives directed by Osgood came in the fourth quarter against the reserve Irish defense whose job it was to ' give up the short yardage in order to prevent any big plays. 

Much of the credit for the problems Mississippi faced on of­fense should go to the Irish defense, which stopped the Rebels cold on most possessions, and made several key plays to turn the game around. 
Ole Miss had 1I possessions during the first three quarters, and couldn't capitalize on any of them. Eight ended with punts, while the Irish got the ball the other three times on a fumble, an interception and on downs. Mississippi only gained 141 total yards and six first downs on these possessions. 
Faust was pleased with the way his 
entire defense played in closing 
see DEFENSE, page 13 

Michigan-Dearborn sweeps Irish; hockey team's recor<i drops to 2-6 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 

DEARBORN, Mich. · The road hasn't been to kind to the Notre Dame hockey team. Dating back to last season, the Irish have posted only one win and a tie in nineteen road games. Their road woes con­tinued this weekend as the Univer­sity of Michigan-Dearborn swept a pair of games from the Irish by scores of 6-3 and 5·3. Notre Dame Head Coach Lefty Smith was unable to explain his team's difficulties on the road. 
"You could say it's because of dif­
ferent rink sizes," said Smith. "For 
example they only have IO feet be· 
hind the goal here where we have I 5 
at our place. But that still doesn't 
give a reason. You should play as 
well on the road as do at home. As 
for what psychologically goes 
through (the players') heads, I don't 
have an answer." 

Smith characterized Friday night's 
6-3loss as "lousy." The Irish jumped 
out to a I-0 lead on Rich Sobilo's power-play tally at 4:45. The Irish lead held up for only 57 seconds as the Wolves' Ron Duda poked Rick LaBurn's rebounded shot past Irish goaltender Tim Lukenda. 
Notre Dame and Dearborn traded goals at the opening of the middle period, Dearborn scorin~: first on a goal by Ken Chaput and the Irish countering as Mike McNeill blasted a nice drop pass from B1rent Chap· man by the Wolves Brik Pardo. 
From then on matters got quickly out of hand. The Wolves put toget· her three goals within a 1:20 span to take a 5·2 lead. Ron Walers scored the first as he picked up a loose puck and stuffed it by Lukenda. Seven seconds later, Scott Davenport caught the Irish napping after the face-off, taking it from Duda and skating in unopposed to whip one by Lukenda who had no chance. A minute and 13 seconds later, Duda got his second goal of the evening when he tipped Chaput's shot by Lukenda. 
The Irish narrowed the deficit to 
5· 3 in the third when McNeill got his 

his second goal of the night by rebounding a shot by Sobilo. The power-play score came at the 3:33 mark. 
The Wolves rounded out the scoring when Duda took the puck off Pat Foley's stick and passed ahead to Davenport. Lukenda dove to make an initial save, but Davenport lifted the rebound over the sprawled Irish netminder. 
The final Wolf score was a microcosm of the evening as a whole. the Irish commited numerous miscues in their own zone, allowing Dearborn many two· on-one and one-on-none breaks. Only the Wolves poor shooting and some good saves by Lukenda kept the score from growing larger. Needless to say, coach Smith was less than pleased by his team's per­formance. 
"We did a lousy job defensively," complained Smith. "We let them walk all over us in our own end. We couldn't get the puck out ofour own 
see HOCKEY, page 11 





