Browne's denial of charge -page 5 

VOL XIX, NO. 92 · the indcpt·ntknt ~tudcnt Ill"\\ ~paper '>lT\·ing notn dame and .'>ailll marv·~ TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1985 

Ad hoc committee prepares elections 
ByAMY STEPHAN 
Senior StaffReporter 
Things were a bit hectic on the second floor of LaFortune last night, as the two sole members of the ad hoc election committee tried to do in two days what usually takes Om­budsman months to do . organize the Notre Dame student body elec­tions. 
"We're going to pull it off, that's 

'85 
Student Government Elections 

for sure," said Tim McDowell, judi­cial board coordinator and co­chairman ofthe ad hoc committee. 
The other co-chairman, Student Body Vice President Cathy David, said "I was up here until 2:30 last night and I haven't left today." 
Since this weekend when Om­budsman declared it would not run this year's elections, the two com­mittee members have had little time to do anything outside oforganizing an election system. Among other things, David said the two have in· vestigated reported campaign viola­tions, dealt with late campaign receipts, printed ballots, gathered materials, and cut and counted bal­lots. 
"We've had a lot of help, a lot of cooperation, including from Om· budsman," said McDowell. David and McDowell both say they under­stand OBUD's reasons for refusing to run the elections. "I understand their decision," said McDowell, "They had to do what they felt they had to do." 
OBUD decided not to run the elections because of the reinstate· ment of the Browne-Cahill ticket by the Student Senate. OBUD had withdrawn Pat Browne and )oanie Cahill's candidacy after they were caught breaking various campaign regulations. Browne and Cahill ap· pealed their case to the senate, which in an 8·7 vote, reinstated their names on the ballot for student body president and vice president. 
Both David and McDowell say OBUD has been very cooperative. "Henry (Sienkiewicz, Ombudsman director) helped us dig through the dumpsters last night," said McDowell. OBUD apparently had disposed ofall their ballots after they 
see AD HOC, page 5 


The Oboerver/Catol Gales 

Tim McDowell, vice-chairman oftbe ad boc election committee sorts ballots to b.e used in today's election. Seen in tbe background is Mike Quinn, executive coordinator ofstudentconcerns. Story at left. 
SMC student government elections tomorrow 
By MARY FRAN GISCH 
News Staff 
The Saint Miry's student govern­ment elections tomorrow in Haggar College Center will have two tickets running unopposed. Both the ticket for student body president and vice presidents and the ticket for the junior class officers will face no op­position tomorrow. 
The ticket for student body presi­dent and vice presidents consists of Anne Marie Kollman for student body president, Jeanne Heller for vice president for student affairs, and Julie Harmon for vice president for academic affairs. 
The senior class has two tickets on the ballot. One consists of Anne McCarthy for president, Mary Sauer for vice president, Mimi Boyle for secretary, and Francine White for treasurer. 
The other senior class ticket in­cludes Beth Steber for president, Elizabeth Spraul for vice president, Uz Ziinmer for secretary, and Patty Murray for treasurer. 
see ELECTION, page 4 



Tayback resigns from Senate seat 
By AMY STEPHAN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Hall Presidents' Council Chairman Chris Tayback resigned his seat on the Student Senate yesterday after· noon. 
"I've never felt more betrayed," said Tayback, who was out of town Saturday when the senate voted to reinstate the Browne-Cahill ticket, which Ombudsman had removed from the student body president and vice president ballot because ofcampaign violations. 
"I strongly object to what they (the senate members) 
did," he said. "Had I been there, there may have been a 
different outcome." The vote to reinstate the Browne­
Cahill ticket was 8-7. 
Claiming the senate does not accurately reflect stu­
dent opinio~s. Tayback said that were the issue of 
reinstatement "put to a referendum, it would be voted 
down." 
The senate "lacked the courage oftheir convictions," said Tayback. "They acted incredibly wimpy. I don't· want to be a part ofwimpy anymore." 
Tayback said he will ask HPC members to vote on whether the HPC should withdraw from the senate al­together. HPC now has three seats on the senate in addi­tion to Tayback's. 
Although he personally has withdrawn from the senate, Tayback stresses that he has not forfeited the HPC chairman's seat. He said the council may choose to 
allow the HPC executive coordinator or another HPC member to fill this position. 
"People in the Student Senate are people with inter­ests," said Tayback, claiming senate members have no definite constituency. "No one is voting for what the students want." Tayback said he questions whether the senate "is a body worth saving." 
HPC members, on the other hand, "have a definite constituency," said Tayback. "The Hall President's Council is the most representative group on campus." 
Tayback said he plans to ask the HPC to request that the newly elected student senators dissolve the senate 


Cbrls Tayback 

and allow the HPC to become the legislat;ve body on campus. The council now limits its focus to hall life, he said. 
With the dissolution of the senate, Tayback said he would ask the student body president and vice presi­dent to preside over HPC. 
The decision to reinstate the ticket was made "in the heat of the moment," said Tayback. "A lot of them would change their votes ifthey could." Saturday's sen­ate vote was a secret ballot, and Tayback claims the sen­ate only votes in secret "when they don't want to be held responsible for an action." 
Tayback said the senate "has failed to follow up. Every time the senate has had a chance, they've rein­terpreted the rules. 
"I like Pat (Browne), and}oanie (Cahill) is one ofthe best HPC members, but these were blatant violations," he said. "Ombudsman was more than justified, they did nothing they weren't supposed to do." 

Candidates .speak on student issues at forum 
Kollman added, "Through the stu·
ByANN KALTENBACH dent surveys on the parietal policy,
StaffReporter 

we learned that everything at the Communication is at the fore of 
college didn't take place between the agenda for the 1985-86 school 
noon to 2 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 10 p.m." year, said Anne Marie Kollman, un­The parietal policy will be opposed candidate for Saint Mary's 
reviewed by the Student Affairs student body president, at "Meet the 
Committee next Monday. 
Candidates Night" last night in the Completing the ticket isJulie Har­
Haggar Parlor. mon running for vice president for 
student affairs and Jeanne Heller for 
Kollman said,"We want students vice president for academic affairs. to know what is going on at Saint Addressing the problem of student Mary's. This year, communications apathy Harmon said, "Students feel 
was our major issue and we feel we the problems aren't up to them. We did well. We enacted the loft policy need to let them know who we are and we are working on the parietal so we can help." policy." Heller, as chairman of the pro­
gramming board added, "I amShe added, "I encourage students working for better communicationsat section meetings to respond. Stu­and as a liaison between the studentsdents at Saint Mary's really do care and the administration."
what happens." 

Kollman addressed a concern for 
The parietal policy was the major student apathy. "We'd like to say student issue focused on at the there isn't as much apathy as is said. forum. Defining the issue Kollman There are so many leaders on this said, "There are so many groups con· campus. Because they don't run for cerned about the social life here on office, doesn't mean they don't campus. We hope the extension of care." parietal hours will equalize some of Opening the forum to student this life and bring it back to Saint questions, Kollman responded to Mary's." the enactment of the integration of 
halls begun this year. "Residence lifeAcknowledging student concern and the Board of Governance arefor the present unsatisfactory hours, talldng to students now. EverywhereKollman explained the proposed they turn, they get differentpolicy. "Weekday parietals will be opinions on the policy. It is hard toextended from 4 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
say ifit was a positive change or not.
Friday hours will be extended from Basically, the issue is up in the air for 4 p.m. to 2 am., Saturdays from noon next year and is undergoing majortill 2 a.m., and Sundays from noon till review." 

midnight. On football weekends, 
there will be an early extension with 

see FORUM, page 4 hours beginning at 10 am." 

The Observer Tuesday, February 12, 1985-page 2 


In Brief 
Workers cleaning up the damaged Three Mile Is­land nuclear power plant routinely come in contact with radioactive materials and some have been exposed to more radiation than federal regulations allow, according to a published report in The Philadelphia Inquirer. Records on file with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission also show Instances In which a worker left the plant while stili contaminated, thus spreading radioactive material. The records also say workers have inhaled particles ofdeadly radioactive plutonium and have been exposed to radiation doses up to 22 times higher than the level ,allowed by federal regulations, the newspaper 

• reported. ·AP . 
The Air Force Is seeking ways of helping American nu­clear missiles defeat Sqvlet defenses by using advanced decoys and guidance systems, The New York Times reported yesterday. The Times said the project, known as the Advanced Strategic Missile Sys­tems program, would receive a sharp Increase in funds under the budget President Reagan has proposed for fiscal 1986. The Times said the program Is highly classified, but some details were provided to the newspaper by Air Force officials and "outsiders familiar with the program." The system includes advanced decoys, or 
"penetration aids," such as clouds of metal chaff and light-reflecting materials that would confuse Soviet sensors seeking to find and shoot down American missiles, the Times said. ·AP 
As tnanyas 1,000Vietoaolese troops seized a 
Khmer Rouge outpost near a major base in western Cambodia to try to drive the guerrillas Into a vise in the mountains ofwestern Cam· bodla, Thai military officers said yesterday. The Khmer Rouge coun­tered yesterday that they had surrounded Battambang, Cambodia's second-largest city, and forced Vietnam to divert some ofIts troops to the Cambodian interior. A top Thai military official said the report • "could be true." After an all-day attack Sunday, the Vietnamese seized the hilltop outpost a few miles from the major Khmer Rouge stronghold at Khao Din, said Col. Chettha Thannajaro, deputy com· mander ofthe Eastern (border) Field Force. ·AP 
Cardinal Jozef Glemp accused Communist aut­horities yesterday ofa "malicious" campaign against the church, and rejected allegations that many priests in this devoutly Roman Catho­lic nation regularly engage in anti-state activities. He said the nature ofattacks In the state news media indicate an "Ideological struggle" within the leadership. Glemp denied government claims that a slain pro-Solidarity priest had violated the law. He said the priest's fre· 
quent sermons in support ofthe outlawed free trade union "did not go beyond theological correctness." "We will defend clergymen," Glemp pledged, but added: "we really don't want priests to engage in politics, pure politics, in a direct way. That Is not the church's task."· 

AP • 
60's rebels haven't SOld OUt. According to a 
survey by the San Francisco Examiner, 95 percent ofthe rank and file of the 1964 Free Speech Movement at Berkeley correctly recall the issue of their time, and 75 percent hold the same opinion on the issue as they did 20 years ago. · The Obseroer 

Of Interest 
A aet together for past and future Angiers students wm be hJd tomorrow night at 7:30 in Farley Hall's Riddle Room.· The Observer 

Weather 
Thne to dig out. Snow diminish­Ing to flurries early today with additional ac­cumulations of approximately three inches by noon. Highs In the low to mid 20s with a 60 percent chance of snow and wind gusts to 30 mph. Windy tonight and tomorrow with a 30 percent chance ofsnow showers. Lows from 1 0 to 1 5 and highs In the low to mid 20s tomorrow. -AP 


The Observer-
The Obeentt (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday 'and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacallon periods. The Obeen'erIs published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for HO per year ( 120 per sc· mester) by writing The Obeen'Cr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The 0'-nu Is a member of The Asaocbotccl Preas. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Today's Issue was produced by: 
Design Editor.............................. Anne Long Design A<slstant ........ )ane Anne Reidford Layout Staff. .......... Alice Kroeger, Melissa Warnke, Larry Burke, Becky Gunderman Type:retten Mary EUen Harrington, Tracy 
Bringardner News Editor............................... Mark Potter Copy Editor.................................. Frank Upo Sports Copy Editor.................. Mary Sieger Viewpoint Layout..................... Paul Bruce ND Day Editor .................. Barbara Stevens Ad Design ......... Anne Marie Furleigh, Usa 
Dickinson Photographer ............................ Carol Gales Typist ................................... Gina Farabaugh 



Saint Mary's commencement speaker need not be average 
Sometime this week University President Father 
Theodore Hesburgh, to a chorus ofdrum rolls, will give 
the long-awaited announcement-who will be the 
speaker at Notre Dame's Commencement this year. 
Less than a month ago, Saint Mary's announced their commencement speaker, although it is doubtful that anyone save the administration could remind you who 
itis.Isn't this the way it always ends up? Speculation, mys· tery, and drama surround the revealing ofNotre Dame's speaker, yet Saint Mary's always takes a back seat. The reason of course is obvious· Saint Mary's Commence· ment speakers of late have been far from household names, and most students are at the point where they don't even care. 
The administration of the College likes to view Saint Mary's as a prominent women's school, "the best Catho· lie woman's college in the country." And the Saint Mary's ofthe 40s and 50s was able to attract prominent politicians, theologians, and 
popular speakers ofthe day. cal, moral and religious 
What has gone wrong? I values are compatible with dori't believe the problem those of the Church." lies in whether Saint Mary's Those criteria sound can attract a prominent great· with the exception of speaker· but rather whether two. Ifthe College If going to the College is really trying to limit nominees to those tho attract one, or even Ifit can, have given "extraordinary amid the narrow restrictions service to the College," no they employ in making their wonder the choices have choice. been so restricted. Are we 
This year's speaker, Father going to automatically ex­Bryan Hehir, clude worthy candidates cipal advisor to the Ameri· just because they have never can Catholic Bishop's recent contributed to or visited letter on nuclear arms, and is j;::::::::=­Saint Mary's? presendy secretary of the ,,,(~ The same goes for the Cri· Department ofSocial Devel· terion requiring views com­

opment and World Peace of the U.S. Catholic Confer· ence in Washington. Hehir is undoubtedly well· respected in his field, and holds many admirable qualifications. But who is the administration aiming to please in this choice? Wouldn't students come away from their commencement better served by hearing a successful woman in any field speak on her achieve­ments and how she achieved her goals? 
This is not to say the College should only consider female candidates, or even those who are "big names." But candidates who have something important to say to this particular student body would be a better choice. Hehir could probably go to any college in the country and speak on his achievments and experience, particu­larly with the bishops' letter. 
But the class of '86 can take heart. Last week, each junior was sent a letter from College President John Duggan, asking for nominations for next year's com­mencement speaker. The process for selection has been accelerated this year. Duggan explains in the letter that 
WEDNESDAY LUNCHFRST ECiiNS FEB. til, ENDSMRYt. 
All ar• w•lc:am• taatt•nda R•fl•c:tian l:iraup S•••ianfram 12:15 -1:DD •ac:h W•dn•adayat th•CSC. 

Celebrate LifeI 

f:!) ~(f) Tan with your <Jc(Jf!J~
Help the 
(:7~ 
Valentine ~r:!)('()





dp 
~~ 
(or someone else's) ~ 
c:) 

March of Dimes 
TAN-HAWA~N 
Fight 

sun tonn~rg sam 
Birth Defeas 

2n-7026 
..____R•E•D-E•E•M•B-Y•F•E•B•.•1•4•,•19•8•5----l-::~~~~a:.:_e:~-­
---------------­


Tess Guarino 
... 

Assistant News Editor 
-------------· 
the previous process had taken so long, by the time in­
vitations were sent out, the nominees had often ac­
cepted other speaking offers. 
Juniors have been asked to submit nominations for 
speaker and honorary degree recipients by this Friday, 
Feb. 15. The criteria described includes "distinguished 
scholarly or artistic achievement, extraordinary service 
to the College, contributions to the field of education, 
and achievement in public or political service... It is 
equally important for a Catholic College to consider 
those persons whose ethi· 
patible with those of the 
Church. Will a worthy, morally ethical, qualified candidate be excluded be­cause he or she is a Protestant? 
Juniors, take this chance to make your graduation a memorable one. Even If you don't still have the forms that were mailed to you, submit your nominee or nominees on a piece ofpaper. All Duggan's office asks is that you include some background information on your candidate and your name. 
Don't be afraid to aim high. The process is starting earlier this year, and chances are very good that an en· thusiastic student response will directly affect Saint Mary's Commencement speaker for 1986. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces· sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 

I.----------1 
BOOTH SPECIAL I I I 
I 
Buy 15 visits ~ at$40 I get5FRH 1 
1------------~
I 

BED SPECIAL I 
I I
I 7 visits $28 I (reg. $39) 1 

1------------~ 
II COMBO SPECIAL I 
6 bed & 6 booth 

I 
I visits $49

I I
-plus-
I 
2 bed & 2 booth 

J 

• • Junior Parents Weekend • • Junior Parents Weekend • '  
JUNIORS JPW REGISTRATION In LaFortune S. Alcove Also at the Cocktail Dance Thursday 6-10 pm Please Bring Your J.D. Friday 9am ­8 pm You OR Your Parents Saturday 9 -noon can Register  
• • Junior Parents Weekend • • Junior Parents Weekend • •  


,----------~-------------------..........-.__,...._~-~---------------------------~---------------, 
The Observer Tuesday, February 12, 1985 -page 3 


something extra special 

'Comparable worth' rejected by Kassebaum 
By CAROL CAMP 
SentorStaffReporter 
"Comparable worth is impractical in an economy as dynamic as ours. In short, it is not the only solution, nor is it a particularly good one." This was the conclusion reached by U.S. Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum (R-Kan.) who presented a lecture "The Merits or Demeritsofa Compa­rable Worth System" yesterday in the Notre Dame LawSchool lounge. 
Kassebaum said she has long ex­pressed the need for economic equity for women. "We are only just beginning to realize that many laws which are gender-neutral on their face have, in fact, a disproportionate impact on women," said Kassebaum. 
Currently, the federal equal pay act only requires that those in the same job be paid the same. "Comparable worth" proposes to eliminate pay disparities in the mar­ketplace by comparing different jobs to determine if they require similar skills. 
However, whether "comparable worth" is the appropriate means for achieving equity has divided Congress. In Congress, a compara­ble worth bill for federal employees passed the House by a large majority, but was defeated in the Senate in October 1984. 
Kassebaum pointed out several problems which advocates of com­parable worth have failed to address: "For a number of reasons, I have serious concerns about such a sys­tem...lt is based on faulty assump­tions and has implications beyond 
OUR NURSING 

SCHOLARSHIPS WILL HELP 
YOUR MEDICAL PLANS. 

those which its proponents envi­sion." 
Kassebaum said the goal of com­parable worth systems is "to eliminate discrimination from pay scales." Unfortunately, devising an equitable pay scale which could be used to evaluate different occupa­tions is a formidable task because "there is no universally accepted job evaluation methodology." 
Furthermore, Kassebaum main­tained that establishing a compara­ble worth system could result in the occurrence ofserious economic dis­ruption. Because comparable worth policies prohibit pay cuts, such pro­grams would be inflationary in the short term and employers would eventually be compelled to lay-off workers in order to meet their payrolls. 
Acknowledging that the effects of previous discriminatory practices against women are still being felt in the marketplace, Kassebaum urged that existing anti-discriminatory laws be more stringently enforced. Additionally, she said, "through our educational system, we must make sure that women are informed ofthe wide range of options that are available to them." 
Kassebaum is the daughter of Alf Landon, the 1936 Republican presidential nominee. She serves on the Senate Budget, Foreign Rela­tions, and Commerce Committees. She recently served with University President Father Theodore Hes­burgh as a monitor of the free elec­tions in El Salvador. 

Our winter snows have not only affectedfaculty and students as is evident by the snoury mantle which drapes the outstretchedarms andbeadoftbe 
TV movie criticized by community 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Atlanta's string of child slayings was re-enacted Sun­day night in a televised movie that local community leaders con­demned as an inaccurate portrayal of how the city coped with the tragedy. 

Television stations and a tele­phone line for parents whose childrenwere upset by the presenta­tion received hundreds of calls, mostly negative, as the first part of "The Atlanta Child Murders," was shown. 
The dramatization, running in two parts Sunday and tonight on CBS, portrayed how Atlanta became obsessed with the mysterious slayings of29 young blacks, and how police eventually charged Wayne 
#illiams in two ofthe deaths. 
-__;-'------, 

The dramatization strongly sug­gests that Williams, who had pleaded innocent, was railroaded. He was convicted nearly three years ago ofthe two slayings, and was sub­sequently blamed for 22 more ofthe deaths. 
Civic leaders who said the movie distorted the case tried unsuccess­fully to get in touch with advertisers and ask them to withdraw support, and Mayor Andrew Young sent telegrams to the nation's 100 leading corporate advertisers ex­pressing his concern about the movie. 
Prosecutors who handled the case 
against Williams said the movie 
makes serious omissions and distor­
tions regarding the investigation and 
trial. CBS has defended the film as fair and balanced. 
CBS, after negotiations with angry city leaders last week, agreed to broadcast an advisory saying the 
statue ofthe Sacred Heart ofjesus which faces the Administration Building. 
movie was not a documentary and was partly fictionalized. 
Within 20 minutes of its airing Sunday night, the telephones began ringing with mostly negative calls at WAGA-TV, the local CBS affiliate, said Kevin Dunn, the station's assis­tant news director. 
The station received about 150 calls by the time the first part of the movie concluded, Dunn said. 
"Most were complaining that we­or CBS -shouldn't have shown it in the first place," Dunn said. "The most common complaint was of the portrayal ofpeople here as hicks." 
George Schweitzer, a CBS spokes­man in New York, said the network received about 50 calls, "mostly negative." 
Meanwhile, the Atlanta school system's hotline for parents whose children were upset by the movie received more than 100 calls, said Ruby Tatum, a psychologist with the scllool system. 



Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
1985·86 Managing Editor and Business Manager 
Resumes and personal statements must be submitted to Sarah Hamilton by 5 p.m. Feb. 15, 1985 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

The Observer Tuesday, February 12, 1985-page 4 
Hall integration unlikely to change 
Despite the negative feeling, the failure. Many feel they were forced
By ANNE GALLAGHER 
policy has been quasi-successful in to live in Regina and McCandless on
Senior S14.ffReporter 
mixing all four classes in LeMans and account of the !>ystem. Rissmeyer Holy Cross according to some of said she realizes that not everyoneIntegration in the residence halls those involved. Anne Williard, a was satisfied with their living ar­at Saint Mary's sparked a controver­freshman in LeMans, believes that rangements, but that a recent stu­sial discussion during the Board of living amongst upperclassman has dent government survey indicatedGovernance meeting last night. 
has helped and disciplined her a lot. that nearly 52 percent of thosePat Rissmeyer, director of The board had mixed feelings on polled were satisfied.
residence life and housing, ex­
this issue. Although a few pointed

plained the present contention con­
out that the mixing has made some

cerning the Integration amd sections more noisy and less Rissmeyer said the question ISadmitted that the existing situation cohesive, other board members whether to continue with integra­has yielded a negative response from cited examples of upperclassmen tion or not. She indicated that shea large number ofstudents. "Most of 
lending an experienced hand to the was hesitant about taking any drastic
the people involved in room Integra­underclassmen. "It works out really steps, and asked the board to vote ontion related that we not go with an well most ofthe time," said Dorothy whether integration should beintegration plan next year. There Murray, parietals commissioner. dropped: The majority of the boardwas some changing of position after Many sophomores and juniors voted in favor ofintegration,and it is we discussed the goals of the inte­who had poor room lottery num­· likely that the policy will remain thegration, but still there was disagree­bers, however, consider the plan a same next year.
ment with the plan." 
Two arrested, 51 ticketed in Friday morning raid upon Corby Tavern 
By FRANK LIPO was conducted by state police, volved were students" of either Copy Editor South Bend police and state excise Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. officers. He said the raid was coor­Pollee raided Corby Tavern, l 026 dinated by the state excise depart­Corby Blvd., early Friday morning ment. 
The two arrests were made and Issued tickets to 51 people on 
outside Corby's during the raid. suspicion of minors entering a _Sophomore John Darrow of Grace Hall was arrested on suspicion of
tavern. 
Suspicion of minors entering a 

public intoxication and disorderly
tavern and suspicion offalse identifi­

conduct. Senior Daniel Biwan of
cation are both technically mis­

Fourteen of the 51 also were Irish Way was arrested on suspicion
demeanors, said Lt. Norval Williams 

given tickets on suspicion of false of public intoxication and resisting
of the South Bend police depart­

identification. Two others were ar­law enforcement.
ment. He said these offenses are, in 

rested outside Corby's on charges 
actual practice, considered infrac­

other than violation of state liquor The raid was part of a statewide
tions and usually result in a ticket, a 

laws. monetary fine and no incarceration. campaign called S.U.D.S. -Stop Un­derage Drinking and Sales, accor­ding to state pollee. Williams said 
Corporal Tom Rubesha of the Although he did not have a break­any future raids would be subject to indiana State Pollee said the raid oc­down of those involved, Williams the discretion of the state excise curred from l to 3 a_m. Feb. 8 and said the "vast majority of those in-police. 
Election 
continuedfrom page 1 
Both tickets for the seniorclass anticipate a close race for the election. The McCarthy/Sauer ticket emphasized their experi­ence. ,;-We all have a lot ofexperi­ence from four different areas. That will make a difference in reaching the most seniors," said McCarthy. 
The Steber/Spraul ticket said they want to concentrate on the individual. "We feel a more infor­mal structure helps class involve­ment because we are more approachable," said Spraul. 
McCarthy also stressed the im­portance of social events. "We are planning early for many social functions, some of them with Notre Dame." 
Zimmer from the Steber/Spraul ticket said, "Class officers should do more than be social commissioners planning dances. Our philosphy is to cover aspects such as academic, spiri­tual, and campus life, as well as the social life." 
Unopposed is the ticket for the junior class election. The ticket consists of Michelle Coleman for president, Betsy Burke for vice president, Katie Sullivan for sec­retary, and Angie Hundman for treasurer. 
The sophomore class has two tickets running for office. One ticket includes Sarah Cook for president, Colleen Dowd for vice president, Lisa Hamann for secre­tary, and Susan Etten for trea­surer. 
The other sophomore ticket is Karen Hanson for president, Liz Wrobel for vice president, Anne Borgmann for secretary, and Mary Ryan for treasurer. 
Forum 

continuedfrom page 1 
Heller added, "Some freshmen really like the upperclassmen aspect and others I have talked to felt iso­lated. As a sophomore, I'm glad I had Regina, but I can see where not having it would hurt." 
The new loft policy was defined by Kollman. She said, "Loft blueprints are available now and are free. Orders for kits will be made at the end of the year, so they know how many to order. If a loft is built outside ofthe policy by the student, it must be inspected by the college and the fire inspector." 
Asked about her concern for the small percentage of minorities on the Saint Mary's campus, Kollman said, "There is not a lack of minorities, there is a lack ofblack ap­plicants. This issue has really never been brought up and I don't see it as a problem." 
Kollman Is vice president for stu­dent allairs, Harmon is junior class president and Heller is sophomore class president. 
Also in attendance at the "Meet the Candidates Night" were those students campaigning for class offices. (See related story this page. ) 
Student body and class officer elections will be Wednesday from 7 
a.m. to 6 p.m. in the Haggar College Center. 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION­
SAVES BABIES 
HELP FIGHT 

<1p
BIRTH DEFECTS 

CONFUSED?? 
Are you bewildered by the Spring Break trips offered?? 

The Student Activities Board 
THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT 
IS YOUR ANSWER!! RELAX ••• we've done this before: 
Ft. Lauderdale * * Daytona Beach 
$299 $199 
• 
Free refreshments on bus • Free Refreshments on Bus 

• 
Free Parties • Sf. Patrick's Day Celebration 

• 
Sf. Patrick's Celebration • Optional trips to Walt Disney World, 

• 
White Sox Baseball Epcot Center 

• 
Afternoon Boat Excursion • Sun and Fun 

• 
DePaui-Northwestern Parties • Free Parties 

• 
At the Sheraton Yankee Trader • At the Plaza Hotel 


SIGN UP AT THE RECORD STORE 
(in LaFortune) 

$75.00 DEPOSIT DUE FEB. 14 
---. 
The Observer 
Tuesday, February 12; 1985-page 5 
Browne denies charge 


The Ob~rver/Carol Gales 
1977, is working for legislative sanctions against the South African government. Robinson was ar· rested Nov. 21, 1984 for protesting in front of the South African embassy in Washington. He spoke as part ofthe Black Cultural Arts Festival. 

By MARK WORSCIIEH 
Managing Editor 
Pat Browne yesterday denied that he asked Ombudsman Election Offi­cer Maher Mouasher to rig today's election, but a member of the elec­tion committee supported Mouas­her's claim. 
Mouasher had said that Browne asked him "to rig the election so he would lose the election without get­ting kicked out and losing face." Mouasher could not be reached for comment last night. 
"I deny saying it," said Browne, a candidate for student body presi­dent. "I admitted my mistake of overspending; however, I can't condone OBUD's actions of accus­ing me with this statement," he said. 
"I asked if there was any way to stay in, and they said no. The elec­tion committee reviewed all the al­ternatives, and that was the only way they could see -for me to concede for personal reasons. I took it as my right to appeal to the Senate," said Browne. 
Dave Stephenitch, an election committee member, said the alleged request came during a meeting late Thursday night between Mouasher, Browne and vice presidential can­didate }oanie Cahill in the student government offices. 
"At 10 p.m., Pat came to the door and asked for Maher. He and Maher went to the back where the senate offices are. Later, Maher came back and reported to us what they offered as one of their own alternatives -to rig the election," said Stephenitch. 
"He came back and said he couldn't believe that Pat Browne would even suggest it," he said. Other OBUD officials in the room were Nancy McDermott, Tammy Randall and Tom Brennan, accor­ding to Stephenitch. 
Cahill, Browne's running mate, confirmed that a meeting took place between the three. 
"Basically, we were just talking about what we were going to do, what our options were," said Cahill. "I really don't remember. I was kind of out of it. I was in shock or whatever, but I don't think he said what was put in the paper." 
Ad hoc 
continuedfrom page 1 
gave up the elections. But McDowell and David retrieved these ballots from the garbage dumpsters and plan to use the senate ballots in today's elections. "Without those ballots we'd be in very bad shape," said McDowell. 
David said new student body pres­ident ballots were necessary be­cause the OBUD ballots did not list the Browne-Cahill ticket. 
OBUD is allowing the ad hoc com­mittee to use its election boxes, pad­locks and information bar in LaFortune, said David. The comput­erized lists of students the commit­tee is using were also obtained through OBUD, she added. 
David, who has worked for OBUD previously, said this year's election system is based on OBUD's. The hall judicial boards will run the elections in the dorms as they did under OBUD. 
The major difference between the committee's system and OBUD's is that the committee does not have OBUD's "espionage network," said David. OBUD has been keeping a close watch on the elections from the start of the campaigning, she said. 
Despite their apparent lack ofper­sonnel, neither David nor McDowell doubts that the election will run smoothly and fairly. David cites several precautions -the require­ment that students show their IDs to vote, a special pen with which judi­cial board members will mark the ballots, and padlocks on all the boxes-that the committee has taken to assure a fair election. 

"Nobody knows our stuff, where we'll be checking on things," said McDowell. "They haven't had time to find out." 
Running an election is something neither of them thought they'd be doing. "It's been quite an experi­ence," said McDowell. "Hopefully there won't be any runoffs." 
The candidates for today's Stu­dent Senate elections are Chris Abood and KM. Burke in District One, KC. Culum unopposed in Dis­trict Two, Tom Browne and John Ginty in District Three, Peter Blood, Michael jaeger and Steven Taeyaerts in District Four and Jim Hagan and Tracy Thoman in District Five. 
The tickets for student body presi­dent and vice president are Pat Browne andJoanie Cahill versus Bill Healy and Duane Lawrence. 

~--------------------------------------------------~---­
~i~~~_{)__i_Jl___t________________T_ue~-a-y,_Fe-bru-~--12,_19-85__p_~_e6 
Kollman deserves vote for president 
The political fever at Saint Mary's could give one hypothermia. For the third time in four years, only one ticket is running for the top student offices at the College. But that ticket-composed ofAnne Marie Kollman, Julie Harmon and Jeanne Heller-offers much in terms ofexperience and potential. 
Kollman's leadership and organization as a vice president this year qualify 
her as a strong candidate for president. She successfully has proven her ability 
to see projects to their completion. Achievements include the loft policy and 
the current effort to extend parietals. 
But it is her commitment to increase communication between students and their government which stands out as a truly worthy goal. The ticket stresses communicationwith students specifically through the media. And maintaining the position ofpublic-relations commissioner instituted this year reflects their efforts to involve students more in student government affairs. 
But a tradition runs deep at Saint Mary's which makes student government prone to stagnation. The tendency for tickets to run unopposed creates an unhealthy situation which offers students no choice and almost no forum in which to raise and debate campus issues. In addition, Kollman's ticket ex­pressed its almost-too-friendly relationship with the adm.in.istration and too little concern for a sports program which does not consider the effects its philosophy has on varsity athletes and students. 
Kollman has said that ifmany students express a concern on any particular issue, student government will get things done. But student government must aggressively protect student interests rather than merely react to problems that have already gotten out ofcontrol. Initiative is what's needed. 
In the final analysis, however, Kollman shows enough promise that Saint Mary's students optimistically can place trust in her leadership. Therefore, with some reservations, The Observer Editorial Board endorses the Kollman ticket with a 7-0 vote. 
-The Observer 


Student government elections: a farce 
First of all, I would like to point out that I hold grudges against no one, that I resigned my position as Elections Officer voluntarily and, therefore, that I have absolutely no inter­est in distorting the issues in any candidates' favor. I just feel that the time has come for a 
Maher Mouasher 
guest column 

full statement to be made, and since I was the person who had the closest contact with all the parties involved, I feel that I am the person who can give the students as full an account of the entire thing as anyone possibly could. 
From the very outset, that is since the beginning ofthis semester, two tickets for stu­dent body president and vice president looked as though they would end up as the ones who would battle it out on Feb. 12 -the ticket of Bill Healy/Duane Lawrence and the ticket ofPatrick Browne/)oanie Cahill. By the time that the candidates had to declare their intentions, it was definite; it was to be a two­ticket race. 
I was appointed to the post ofOmbudsmen Election Officer on April 1 oflast year, so I had ample opportunity to prepare to make this year's elections as fair as possible. I met with the Student Senate several times and with the Hall Presidents Council a couple oftimes, and I stressed to all prospective candidates that this year's elections were to policed more strictly than ever before. My staff and I were ready to catch all violators. 
The first ticket violated in this race was the Browne/Cahill ticket in the form of an illegal endorsement in the Stanford Hall minutes on Jan 25. A first warning was issued, and when the same thing was repeated a penalty was imposed. Due to the indirect nature of the violation, the minimum penalty was imposed and then downgraded from $28.50 to SIO. I thought that after this penalty the utmost care would be taken to make sure that it would not happen again. I was mistaken, however, and, even though all other checks on the other ticket and the senate candidates revealed no violations, checks on the Browne/Cahill ticket kept turning up a steady stream ofthem -campaigning before the assigned period, campaigning in classrooms and unethical con-
The learning experience in Ireland 
Are you tired and bored with life at Notre Dame:? If you happen to be a senior, then help is obviously on its way. Ifyou are a junior, then senior year must seem like a beacon of light. So what do you do ifyou happen to be trapped 
Frank Pimental 
guest column 

in the class of 1987 or 1988? Well, I have the perfect answer. You see, I happen to be one of the fortunate people: spending my sophomore year abroad. 
Let me as.k you some more questions. Are you sick and tired of endless squabbles be­tween Notre Dame's "arrogant" men and "exploited" women? Are you an Independent in a country of "holier than thou" Democrats and "Reagan is right" Republicans? Excuse me if I am rehashing old news, but the last edi­tions ofThe: Observer we received were from November. How would you feel about being in a country where the "Fighting Irish" are not a group ofbeloved gridiron heroes, but rather bitter members ofthe Irish Republican Army? 
How about studying in a place that brought Dublin traffic to a standstill due to a proposal to raise: the: following year's tuition to S900? Please let me continue. 
I have just returned from three weeks of hitchhiking around Europe over the holidays,an experience which I would not trade for any three weeks I cozily could have spent at home. Let me tell you, spending New Year's Eve in a Munich beer hall with a real oom-pah band providing the atmosphere beats any party I have ever been to. Oh, I for­got, partying is forbidden. Knowing that we have to return next year is quite a sobering thought. 
About the academics -since administrative eyes may be reading this, I recommend you confer with someone who has been overseas. As you know, however, education is more than books. Strangely enough, I have learned more about my own country since arriving here than I would have ever learned huddled back in the United States ofAmerica. You see, we Americans oftentimes take our country for granted. At this time last year I had very little notion of what a Sandinista was, nor really cared. 
The time I am spending here has forced me to defend or to disagree with my country's ac­tions. I cannot count the times I have had to defend my vote for Reagan. The point is that most Europeans take for granted an educated opinion ofone's country. Naturally, being the first "Yanks" that some Europeans have ever met, we have much to answer for. Being over­seas has made me a more responsible citizen. 
Now, to those of you who are interested in studying abroad but just could not fathom the thought of not being in N.D. stadium for five autumn Saturdays, or in the ACC for 15 winter nights, I say this: You would still have two years to scream your lungs out in exhortation or profanity. Plus, how does the idea of witnessing England and Ireland clash in a two­hour rugby match among 70,000 crazy, ballad-singing Irishmen appeal to you? If that is not American enough, well, they did show the Super Bowl live here. By the way, ROTC is no excuse either because the writer of this is an Army cadet on scholarship. 

Oh, yeah, one more thing-ifyou are one of those guys who will end up watching the Indiana high school semi-states on a Friday night (like me) instead ofgoing out with a girl, there is hope. For some reason, I exist as a male again. 
Now if all this seems too good to be true, then you are getting a pretty good idea ofwhat it is like. However, 95 percent ofyou probably have your mind made up one way or the other. It is you 5 percent who I am hoping to influence. It is not too late -at least it was not this time last year. If you have decided to come abroad next year, you will not regret it. Talk to someone who has been. If you have decided not to, talk to a senior who has not. And if, by chance, it is too late and I did not write this in time ... well, this is Ireland and, as the Irish fellow says, I am in no hurry. 
Frank Pimental is a sophomore at Notre Dame currently studying in Ireland. 
duct in damaging University property to the 
tune of S300. 

All these violations were to have been dealt 
with by the Elections Committee in its regu­
larly scheduled meeting. This was not to be, 
however, since a routine check on all candi­
dates to the copy center revealed that the 
Browne ticket had ordered 2000 extra 
posters to be printed up -a most serious of­
fense since these posters had not been re­
ported and since, compared to the 
Healy/Lawrence total of 500 posters, it would 
bring the Browne ticket a grand total of 3300 
posters, something which would give them a 
most unfair advantage. 

Therefore, on Feb. 7 Browne and Cahill 
were summoned to an emergency meeting of 
the Election Committee and confronted with 
the facts. They admitted to the offense, and 
Browne became very emotional saying that 
his ticket had been very frightened of losing 
the election and that it seemed to him that his 
ticket could cheat and pull it off. 

After admitting to this serious breach ofthe rules that he had approved in senate only a couple of months earlier and, since that rule states immediate forfeiture of candidacy as the only possible penalty, Browne's ticket was requested to withdraw in order to protect the secrecy concerning the offense and to protect honor ofthe two people involved. 
In a private meeting with both Browne and Cahill, Browne asked me to rig the election so that they could remain in the running yet lose, presumably so it would not come out that they cheated. I, ofcourse, refused such an un­ethical offer from two desperate people trying to "protect their integrity." Since they refused to resign, the committee's unanimous deci­sion was to forfeit their candidacy. The ticket appealed to the senate and, even though the senate knew of Browne's premeditated intent to cheat and, even though they had approved the election rules previously, friendships won out, and the ticket was reinstated. 
My closing point is that even Richard Nixon resigned when he was caught breaking the law, and he was not the most moral person. I am not trying to point out support for either ticket, but shouldn't someone else who seems so concerned about "integrity" also resign? 
Maher Mouasher is the fonner Om­bUdsmen Election Officer and is a sopho­more engineering majoratNotre Dame. 
Viewpoint Policy 

Viewpoint would ltke to bear from 
you. If you would ltke to respond to 
something you've read in The 
Observer, why not write a letter to the 
editor. Letters should be well-written, 
typed, no more than 250 words in length and must bear the signature of the author. Letters which are not signed by the author will not be pub­lished. 
But letters are not the only way to voice your opinion in The Observer, Viewpoint also acceptsguest columns. Guest columns should be well-written, typed, no more than 500 words in length and must bear the signature of the author. A guest column, unltke let­ter to the editor, should not be a direct response to another editorial. 
Both guest columns and letters to the editor can be mailed to The Observer, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or deltvered to either our Notre Dame office in LaFortune StUdent Cen­terorourSaint Mary's office in Haggar College Center. Please include your telephone number. 
The Observer reserves the right to edit all material submitted to the Viewpoint department for publica­tion. 

Tuesday, February 12, 1985-page 7 

P.O.Box Q 
players live there) and throw my tray away at McDonald's, the one with the picture of the 
Father Griffin steps 
coach whom I booed after I had drunk too much in the rain at football games. That's out of Christian bounds right. The alcohol policy, the weather and the football team's record are all my fault. DearEditor: 
Oh, yeah, I still owe the student govern­After reading Rev. Robert Griffin's column, ment eight cents for the damage to the buses "Stop Burning Rubber and I Will Stop after the Pitt game in 1982. It is probably up to Smoking," I was left rather bewildered. Aside 
a dime after that UCLA debacle the other from his immature whining over the world's night. problems, I was amazed that a Catholic priest 
I also bought a Women of Notre Dame lacked both the insight and the intelligence to Calendar, but I hid it under my bed so my condemn vigilantism. He states that mother would not be appalled. Mothers can­"Christians with faith in civilized institutions not handle looking at scantily-clad, sexually­believe that the law will come to their aid. exploited women. I can -she wonders where Bernhard Goetz as their folk hero is living she went wrong with me. How can I do such proofofthe benefits ofthe right to bear arms." things? How can I look at myselfeach morning Well, personally, this is one Christian who in the mirror (which, by the way, I ripped off)? does not hold Goetz as a "hero." When society Someday I will see the error of my ways. Then falls under the control (or lack thereof) of again, probably not. My kind is so unrefor­such people as Goetz; at that time Griffin's mable. whining will be justified. 
Dean Sullivan Dillon Hall It is ironic that Griffin complains about the ills ofthe world while implying that the clean­up should be done by the trigger-happy citizens. Vigilantism is simply a form ofethical 
-Healy's action seems 
relativism, which the Church has historically condemned as being destructive to the indi­~ 
,
common bond was belief in Jesus Christ and vidual and to society.
politically motivated 
Keenan Revue party ,
the desire to apply his teachings to our daily Father Griffin, are you indeed Christian? Do life. While some students stopped attending you, after all, have the intelligence to con­1 
a resounding success .,
Mass after the involvement"with this group, DearEditor: demn vigilantism and choose not to? In the 1 they nevertheless grew in their committment The day after the student government cam­future I will be careful not to ask you for DearEditor: to Christ. paigns officially started, a letter describing a money while carrying a screwdriver in my 
Could Keenan Hall's Revue Party be seen as I can understand forbidding cults and non­series of charity activities aimed at raising pocket for fear that you will try to make evidence that the new alcohol policy is Christian groups from meeting on campus, money for a Multiple Sclerosis fund was dis­yourself a folk hero, simultaneously proving working? I believe the answer to this question but groups like Campuus Crusade for Christ tributed to the student dorms. This letter was the benefits of the right to bear arms. must be a resounding "yes." For on Saturday and Campus Bible Fellowship have a reputa­signed by Bill Healy, acting as M.S. Commis­Chuck Beretz 1 night and early Sunday morning, the corridors tion at other universities of being healthy and sioner for the student government Cabinet. Morrissey Hall and basement of Keenan were filled with faithful to orthodox Christianity. 1 people socializing and having fun, yet no alco­Pete Helland As far as I can remember, this is the first 
Immaturity reinforces ,,
hol was served by the dorm. Room parties Notre Damegraduate time I have received any distributions from abounded where served Healy, even though he has been with the stu­administration's view
hosts alcoholic beverages to their guests. However, as Father dent government since April 1984. One David Garrick remarked, "there were no hor­would think that since Healy is a candidate for DearEditor: ror stories whatsoever." Father Garrick, the Are Notre Dame Student Body President, he might be too busy 
When the alcohol and attendant social R.A.s, and the residents of Keenan showed running for office and distributing campaign 
policies were announced, hundreds of stu­respect for the alcohol policy following the students unreformable? literature to take up correspondence with his dents protested the loss of privileges. When regulations laid out by Administrator John present constituents for the first time in his 
the subject of direct student representation Goldrick. ten-month tenure as student government 
on the Board of Trustees came up, many stu­More importantly, though, they followed DearEditor: Cabinet member. dents voiced support for the idea. When the original "intent" of the alcohol policy es­Once again, I am chafed-not with the Notre While Bill Healy would like himselfto come 
changes in core courses were debated, less tablished last year: the responsible use ofalco­Dame student body or community but with across as concerned about the needs of the 
than ten percent of the students solicited by hol. This party proved that Notre Dame can myself. How I can live with myself is unfat­Multiple Sclerosis fund which he claims to their representative on the Academic Council throw a large party with responsible drinking. homable. The things I have done -I am not fit represent, it seems that he appears to be more 
bothered to reply. Why don't more dorms take a chance and to wear the vaunted N.D. on my chest or even interested in distributing his name as widely Why should the administration grant new prove to the administration that we are re­fake the words to the alma mater. as possible in the week before his presidential 
responsibilities to students who have shown sponsible with alcohol? Student leaders It has taken more than a week of soul­election. that they cannot handle the current system? should feel encouraged by Keenan's success. searching to be able to say this, but I booed at john A. Wachter 
Mark Eggers Dorm leaders must keep in mind the alleged the DePaul game. And I booed lustily. That is Dillon Hall Post-doctoral Research Associate "intent" of the alcohol policy and challenge one of the seven deadly boos. But that is not the University to allow us to show our respon­all. I also threw a snowball. It may not have sibility. We will foster a responsible use ofal­broken a window, but it may have caused a cohol only when the Universjty student to slip and fall and on ice no less. acknowledges our responsibility. This unfortunate victim was probably on Paul C. Anderson his way back from the Grotto or the Crypt. Or Keenan Hall maybe he was just-staring at the dome -that glistening, glimmering visage of Our Lady,Exclusion of certain perfect in every respect, save for the sinning peons below her. I doubt I hit anyone, though, because I throw like a girl -oh, there I go
religious groups wrong 
again, I am such a chauvinist. By now you have DearEditor: probably guessed that I am scum so I might as 
In order to prevent students from being well tell all. proselytized by a non-Christian faith, it is a I left an empty can ofsoda in the library pit wise policy to forbid such faiths from organiz­last week. I also seem to remember dropping a ing on campus. When I was a freshman in gum wrapper outside between Sorin and 
1970 I got involved with a group practicing Walsh, but I cannot be sure because it is the transcendental meditation, which has its roots kind of ugly incident I try to block out of my in the Hindu religion. By my junior.,rear, I had mind. Knowing me, I also probably spit out strayed so far from mainstream Christianity the gum while It still had some good juice in it, that I decided to drop out of Notre Dame in not thinking that someone else may have order to resolve my conflicts. needed that gum. I left my tray on the table in Fortunately, Jesus Christ revealed Himself the dining hall once. What is worse is that 
to me, and I found the truth I was seeking in there was a glass of milk and some Cap'n the Scriptures. I returned to Notre Dame in Crunch <;ereal onit. And we worked so hard to 1976 and got involved in a newly-formed get that cereal. 
group called Campus Crusade for Christ. I have two Rockne towels, leave the lights While the staff was non-Catholic the students on in classrooms, walk across the grass, tell were Catholic and non-Catholic alike, our jokes about Howard (even though football 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager........... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller . .............Dave Stephenitch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Editor...... . .... Michael Sullivan Production Manager. ........ Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Project Manager ........... Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 



• 
Accent 
Abiogensis: A collective of spo 
Lucy Kaufman 
features staff writer 
A

biogenesis: Webster defines it as 
''the supposed spontaneous origination ofliving organisms directly from lifeless matter." 
Abiogenesis: Patricia Romano dcM:ribes it as "a modern recreation of life through dance." 
I 
Romano, a sophomore at Saint Mary's. is the newly appointed director of the Abiogenesis/Motion 


Dance Company. The company was a project started by Angela Adams. a Notre Dame graduate student. Originally. it was a dance company with emphasis solely in modern dance. Romano has expanded the 
r company to include jazz. ballet. tap. and many other dance fbrms. Motion is comprised of I 7 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dancers; three apprentices; and two student directors. Romano and Cathy Schafer. Becky Nanovic, a member of the dance company. assists in the ballet portion of the company. 
Sunday was the first officiaL meeting of the company members. Throughout the semester. they will meet as a group every two weeks in the Regina basement studio at Saint Mary's. The remainder of time will be spent working individually with instructors or attending Abiogenesis dance classes held in the: Regina studio. 

Abiogenesis dance classes are open to everyone:. not only com­pany members. There is a member­ship fee of SI<; which serves as revenue for the company. Offered this semester is jazz on Wednesday at 7:30pm. ballet on Thursday at 
The Observer/Sheila Burke 
7:30pm. and Wednesday at 8:30 
A member ofMotion concentrates on stretching her legs. 


pm there is a potpourri class which 
incorporates tap. Spanish tech­
niques. and many other styles. 

A membership t·ntitks the holder to attend any or all of thc <:lasses. and any of the company's perfilr­mances at no extra charge. Also included is the opportunity to attend master's classes taught by prominent dance figures in the South Bend/Chicago area. Sched­uled to teach one of these classes is Kenn Matlo<:k of(:hicago's Joseph Holmes Dance Company. 
Auditions for the Motion Com­

pany were held on Jan. 27. The next 
auditions will be held next fall. 

However. a few more male dancers 
are needed to round out the group. 
Call Patricia Romano at 284-420'; if 
interested. 

Upcoming performances include 
their March 8 dehut in the 

Chameleon Club Coffee House at 
Saint Mary's at ';:30 pm.. Romano 
also plans to schc:duk perfor­
manet~s in the South Bend area. 
including a performance at the 
White Water Concert in the Ct:n· 
tury Center. South Bcnd. 

Thc dancers plan to make a music vidco to help publicize the com­pany. Also planned for thc future is a children's halkt to he performt·d at the Early Childhood Develop­ment Center and possibly at st·veral nursery schools in the South Bend community. 
"Also. we hope to reserve the Chataqua ballroom for a coupk of weekends in Man:h and May for our more formal performances," Romano added. 
, f'" :''_-· .. 
. . 
•· 
t 

The Observer/Sheila Burke 
Clad in dancing gear, the company waits for instructions. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
taneous motion 




BOSTON-Cynthia Bousfield says psychotherapy saved her life. ''I felt lik~: I want~:d to giv~: up." sh1: says. 
"I'd  probably  b1:  on  welfare.  th~:  
childr~:n  would  hav~:  gon~:  to  th1:  
stat~:."  

But th~: 2H-year-old s~:cretary and moth~:r of two says sh~: wouldn't hav~: sought out tr~:atment if it w~:r~:n't for a state law that r~:quires h~:alth insurance companies to cover th~: th~:rapy. 
"G~:tting your h~:ad togeth~:r and your act togethn is important. but if th~: choice is betw~:en the rent and your head. th~: rent gets th1: money." sht· said. 
The law mandating mental h~:alth cov~:rag~: for Ms. Bousfield and resi­d~:nts of I 3 states is now under chal­kng~:. Later this month. two insuranc~: companies will appear before the U.S. supreme Court to argu~: that Massachus~:tts cannot or­d~:r th~:m to provid~: such coverage. 
Th~: case carrit's broad~:r implica­tions for th~: nation's h~:alth car~: syst~:m. The ~:v~:ntual ruling could af­fect a varit'ty ofstate laws mandating insurance coverage for a rang~: of medical issues from alcoholism to mastectomy. 
"What's at stak~: h~:r~: is whl:th~:r the states arc: going to hav~: som~: control ovc:r h~:alth care: or if it is going to b~: Idt to th~: insur~:rs." said Edward Scalkt. an attorn~:y for th1: Committe~: for Comprc:hensiv~: In­surance: Covc:rage. a group of 2--i stat~:s and h~:alth car~: groups in­volv~:d in the: suit. 
Th~: Massachus~:tts law is bdng t·halkng~:d by Th~: Travd~:rs lnsur­anc~: Co. and M~:tropolitan Lif1: ln­suranc~: Co.. which say the federal Employ~:e R~:tir~:ment lncom~: S~:­curity Act of 197--i prohibits stat~:s from mandating spn·ific typ~:s of in­surance coverag~:s. 
Th~: Massachus~:tts law. passed in I 9'7 3. rt·quir~:s insur~:rs to provide a minimum of SSOO in b~:n~:fits for th1: tr~:atment of m~:ntal or n~:rvous con­ditions. Th~: H~:alth Insurance Asso­ciation of Am~:rica says I 2 other statt·s rcquir~: similar covnag~:; 3 7 stat~:s mandat~: oth~:r b~:nefits. such as well-haby car~:. alcohol and drug tr~:atm~:nt. home h~:alth car~: and mastectomit's. 
The: h~:alth insurance industry argu~:s that such laws fore~: un­want~:d and costly h~:alth coverage on th~: public ~:scalating th~: cost of insuranc~:. 
Alan Fktch~:r. a spok~:sman for the Hartfvrd. Conn.-based Travders. said: "if thq b~:gin mandating one cov~:ragc:. what's to stop th~:m from mandating oth~:r coverag~:s." 
But support~:rs say such laws are th1: only way to gl:l insurance com­
panies to provid~: low-cost coverag~: for such treatm~:nts. 
"When we have tried to negotiate with th~: insurance companies to provid~: it th~:mselves, we hav~: got­ten nowhere," says John Ambrose. a spok~:sman for the National Mental Health Association. "Wh~:n that sit­uation occurs state kgislatures hav~: to step forward becaus~: it is a public policy issu~:." 
Thomas McGuir~:. an associate prof~:ssor of ~:conomics at Boston Univ~:rsity. ~:stimated that from S to 7 perc~:nt ofMassachusetts resid~:nts s~:~:k some kind of m~:ntal health treatment each y~:ar-approximatdy doubk th~: numb~:r bdore manda­tory cov~:rag~:. 
"Th~:rl:'s no question that this kind of coverag~: does encourage som~: p~:opk to seek tr~:atment." h~: said. 
Erna Gill of th1: Massachusetts chapt~:r of the National Association of Social Workers said the law b~:nefits peopk in low-int·ome brackets who couldn't afford and wouldn't normally s~:~:k such tr~:at­m~:nt. 
The Near Side 
0 
But the stat~:'s Iarg~:st insurer. th~: 
3.S million-member Blue Cross and Blu~: Shidd of Massachusetts. ques­tions whether the law has public support. 
"We have no argument with the benefit of outpatient psychot­h~:rapy." said Blue Shidd Pr~:sid~:nt John Larkin Thompson. "But the­mandating process tak~:s away fre~:dom of choic~: from employer and employe~:. If a company wants to have that kind of cov~:rag~:. w~:'d provid~: it. But th1: accounts have been telling us they don't want it." 
Thompson noted a dramatic in­crease in mental h~:alth paym~:nts. Before the law. h~: said the company paid out S2 million for m~:ntal h~:alth treatment. By 1983. th~: bill hit 539 million. accounting for what Blu~: Cross says is about IS percent of its payments. 
Eric Harris. director of profes­sional affairs for the Massachusetts Psychological Association. admitted there may have been "inappropriat~: utilization" ofthe mental health care und~:r th~: law. But he maintain~:d so­ciety sav~:s mon~:y in th1: long run. 
Mark Weimholt 

Tuesday, February 12, 1985 -page 8 -page 9 
A rude awakening 
Marc Ramirez 
Strange days indeed 

I 
t's not among my habits to greet the morning sun with a smile, especially because if I do see the morning sun, it's because I've been up all night, and besides, the sun isn't demented enough to show its face around here this time ofyear. 
It ofcourse follows that ifI am woken up any time before 10 a.m., I usually am ofthe persuasion which lends itselfto growling, kicking, and severe blows to the head. In short, I am not a "morning person." 
So there I was in my third consecutive hour ofRapid Eye Movement, all cozy and snuggled in my beautiful brass daybed, when suddenly I was yanked out ofsleepdom by a thunderous knock at the door. 
My eyelids refused to budge even the bittiest tine. "Go away," I 
mumbled. 
But this bozo kept on knocking. 
"Open the door," a voice said, a voice so innocent it could only 
belong to someone willing to give his all to make student government 
better for all ofus. "C'mon, this is important." 
,;Okay, 'okay, come in," I grumbled, quite reluctantly. 
Whoever it was honored my request this time, but company or not, 
I was determined to get back to sleep. I declined the gesture ofrolling 
over to see who It was. The daylight was destroying me already, and 
besides, Stranger Danger would probably disclose his identity soon 
anyway. 
"Look, Marc, I'm not going to beat around the bush. I want to run for 
student body president, and I want you to be my running mate. I think 
we'd make a great ticket, you and I. I've figured out the perfect 
platform: we'll just combine the other two. So you can be efficient and 
I can interact socially, and we'll be elected in no time." 
"Now hold on a minute," I said from under my pillow. "Who are you?" 
"That's not important," he said. "It doesn't matter who I am. I mean, look who we're running against. Right now, all we gotta do is round up 300 signatures on a petition and turn it in to someone or other." 
Something was definitely wrong here. I may not be Garry Wills, but I know there's a few rules concerning such late entry into elections. On top ofthat, I had no intention ofrunning for anything, especially not on three hours ofsleep. "That's against the rules, isn't it?" I asked. 
Oh, rules, shmules," he said. "There are no rules. Haven't you heard? 
I know you haven't been hiding under a rock your whole life. 
"So listen, this is what we do, okay? I've got it all planned out. You 
don't have to worry about a thing. just run. We'll just print up about 
7,000 posters and send one to every student on campus. By tomorrow, 
everyone will know us." 
I really wanted way down deep to go back to sleep, but this was 
starting to catch my interest here. Anything with no rules couldn't be 
all that bad. "This, uh, 7,000 posters bit," I started. "Wouldn't that cost 
quite a bit of money? How are we going to afford that?" 
"So we go a little over budget," he mocked. "So what? People do it 
all the time. Not only that, but they evenplan to do it. And we only 
have to report what we use originally. So tonight we'll put up about a 
thousand ofthem, right? Then, tomorrow we'll blitz the entire city of 
South Bend with maybe 10,000 more. I want to win this thing. 
"But why are you cheating?" 
"Why not? Look, all we gotta do ifwe get caught is appeal to the student senate, and we're fine, no problem. I've got friends up there. Thank God Obud doesn't have the last word like it was supposed to." 
Actually, I was beginning to wonder if I really liked the sound of 
this. I mean, I may be lowdown and dirty when it comes to playing 
Chinese checkers, but this was a little different. "Look," I said, "I don't 
know anything about student government. And not only that, but I'm a 
senior. I won't be here next year." 
"Details, details," he said. "Don't worry about all that stuff. Seriously. 
The student senate will let us do anything. Trust me." 
Well, that was it. He had blown it. Anybody who says "trust me" has 
got to be a loser. "Get out of my room," I said. 
"What?" he said, a shockle trifed. 
"You heard me, get out," I repeated in my best authoritative voice. 
"Oh, you think this is just a joke, right?" he asked, and from beneath 
my pillow it sounded like he was leaving. "Well, it's not. I'll be back 
later when you're in a better mood. Think about it in the meantime." 
And so he left, leaving me alone with my pillow and my noisy 
radiator, and since I couldn't get back to sleep, I dared to emerge and 
check out the surroundings. 
Well, like all politicians, he left something behind for me to read, 
and in this case it happened to be yesterday's issue ofThe Observer. 
So I read everything about you-know-what, and how they spent too much you-know-what, and how Obud tried to do you-know-what to them, but then how the senate did you-know-what, and do you know what? 
Well, I actually thought about running. Now I know what you're saying, you're saying I'm a hypocrite and stufflike that, but I lay there in bed for a hellaciously long time and gave some really bona fide, first-class, made-in-America thought to it. 
The conclusion was inevitable: whoever this joker was, he wasn't the punch line. 
The laugh lay somewhere else. 
Despite its attempts to attain credibility and respect amidst a prevailing student attitude that student government is nothing to be taken seriously, it instead has lost with its reversal of the prescribed punishment for the the admitted violations which occurred. 
The joke is the student senate. 
~--------~----..-------------------------~-------------.~~--~-~--~--~-~--"'' 
I 

Sports Briefs 
The Saint Mary's basketball team will play 
host to Valparaiso today at 7 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Admission is free.-The Observer 
jack Nolan, WNDU sportscaster, will be the guest on "Speaking of Sports" today at 9 p.m. on WVFl AM-64. Listeners may talk to Jack and cohosts Chuck Freeby and Kevin Herbert by calling 239-6400. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Squash Club will play host 
to the regional Insllco tournament next weekend at the ACC. Two 
winners will receive an expense-paid trip to Chicago in April. All 
members of the student body, faculty and staffare invited to sign up 
by tomorrow in the ACC. -The Observer 
An interhall wrestling tournament is 
being sponsored by NVA. The deadline for submitting entries is tomorrow. For information, contact the NVA office at 239·6IOO. · The Observer 
The NVA racquetball and squash singles 
tournaments have been completed. Ron Anderson defeated Murray Liebrandt for the squash championship and Bill Elinton beat Mark Harris for the racquetball crown. -The Observer 
Tuesday, February 12, 1985 -page 10 
An indoor soccer tournament is being held 
by NVA, beginning Monday, Feb. I8. The deadline for submitting nine-player rosters is Friday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6I 00. -The Observer 
The SMC varsity baseball team will be hold­ing tryouts beginning Tuesday, Feb. 19 from 3:30p.m. to 5:30p.m. Anyone who is interested may contact the reservation desk at the Angela Athletic Facility for other scheduledpractices. -TheObserver 
Knee injuries frotn spot1s will be discussed by Dr. Leslie M. Bodnar, senior consultant of the Notre Dame sports medicine program, on Tuesday, Feb. 19 at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC. Admission to the lecture is free. -The Observer 
Aninterhallswinuningmeet is being held by NVA on Tuesday, Feb. I9. Hall representatives must submit a list of entries and divers must provide a list of dives to Dennis Stark by Monday, Feb. 18. For more information, call Coach Stark at 239· 6222. -The Observer 
A racquetballtoumanlent is being held by NVA for all members of the student body, faculty and staff. There will be three divisions: one for intermediate players, one for advanced players and one for mixed doubles teams. The deadline for entries is Wednesday, Feb. 20. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Observer 
Ewing paces Georgetown 
As&ociatcd Press 

LANDOVER, Md. -Georgetown's 
Patrick Ewing scored I6 points and 
grabbed IO rebounds as the second· 
ranked Hoyas held off No. 19 Vil­lanova 57-50 in a Big East Conference game last night. 
Georgetown, 22-2 overall and 9-2 in conference play, took the lead for good at 46-45 on Ewing's turn­around jumper from the baseline with 2:57 remaining in the contest. 
Villanova, which led No. I ranked St. John's by 1 I on Saturday before losing 70-68, grabbed a quick 9·0 lead against Georgetown as the Hoyas missed their first I 0 shots from the field. 
The Wildcats led 25-22 at the half. 
In the second half, freshman Perry McDonald's basket capped a string of six straight Georgetown points as the Hoyas took the lead for the first time at 34-33with I4:45 remaining. 
Georgetown widened its lead to 
44-39 with 6:35 to play before the 
Wildcats rallied. 

The Obsen•er Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. an·epts classified advertising from') a.m. until 4 p.m .. Monday through Friday. The Obsert1er Saint Mary's offin:, locatt·d on the third floor of llaggar Colkge Center, accepts classifieds from 12::\0 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for nt•xt-day classified• is 3 p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Char~e is I 0 n·nts per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters erda •. 

NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-88117 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR S44 n1ROUGH Tl1E U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! CAU 1-312·742·1142 EXT. 7316. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING JACKIE BOGGS 
684-37113 
Typing/Word Proc~ng ·Term Papers. Resumes. etc Ediling available. Call Andrea· ~11 pm. 283·3880. 
NEED TYPING. CAU DOLORES 2n­6045. PICKUP AND DELIVERY. 
START YOUR CAREER NOW Earn money and wort< on Fortune 500 Compamea· marketing programs on campus. Part-lime (flexible) houra each week. We gove relerencea. Call 1·800· 243-6679. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
LOST/F~UND I 
LOST: GREEN SWEATER IN CUSHING, ROOM 208 IF FOUND. CALL JOHN AT 2196 NO QUESTIONS ASKED 
LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETTER JACKET IS STILL AT LARGE REWARD FOR ANY INFORMATION LEADING TO THE AA· REST AND CONVICTION OF ITS CAP­TORS. PLEASE CALL J.R. REID AT 2n-7561 IF YOU HAVE ANY KNOWL· EDGE OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. 
LOST: DARK WOOL BLUE BERET. Spanilh in8a'lphon. Have pity--was my Grandlather·a. Anna 2n-4745. 
LOST: A pair of black Ane women's size amall gtovea in rm. 208 O'Shag. I know aomebody hal them. lllound, pleaae call Stephanie at 3738, or return them to 244 Badin. Thanks. 
LOST: pair of blacl< glovea on Sunday evening In Roct<. They are gilts lrom eomebody very dear Pleaae call1167 or live them In Roct< 
LOST:MEN'S NO CLASS RING. KMS IN­SCRIBED ON INSIDE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 3204. REWARD. 
LOST: ONE BROWN FOZZY n1E BEAR WATCH SANS WRISTBAND. NO REAL MONETARY VALUE BUT I AM WILLING TO PAY TO SEE MY LITTLE FOZZY'S SMILING FACE AGAIN. Tl1ANKS. X4173 
LOST: Marfa nmex watch outaide of an ACC raque1ball coun Monday nile, Fell4. I'm not sentimental but I mla the llnte guy. Contact David at i4356. 
FOUND: ONE LOOSE CAR KEY, FRIDAY, 218. NORTH QUAD. JOHN 2483. 
DID YOU REALLY NEED MY PHYSICS BOOK SO BADLY? IT'S GOOD TO KNOW THAT THE PEOPLE HERE ARE SO TRUSTWORTHY. IF YOU HAVE ANY CHARACTER YOU'LL PUT IT BACK WHERE YOU GOT IT, NOT THAT I HAVE ANY HOPE OF THAT ... YOU HAVE OBVIOUSLY SHOWN YOUR TRUE NATURE. TOO BAD YOU COULDN'T HAVE LEFT ME MY PAPERS. NOT THAT IT MA TIERS, BUT I NEEDED TO TURN THOSE IN TTOO BAD I FORGOT THAT PEOPLE CAN'T BE TRUSTED. 
loet: pair of gloves and hat left on bus after Chocago Trip please bring to Dr. Hofman 
LOST: My life!! if I can't get 2 GA's lor the BYU game. MY ginriend will KILL me! Please call Bill at2188 if you can save my life!!!!! 
LOST: ONE GOLD AND PEARL EARING. FRIDAY NIGHT. COULD BE ANYWHERE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-5156. 
FOUND: APAIR OF WHITE MITTENS IN THE OBSERVER SMC DAY OFFICE. CAN CLAIM M-F 12:30-3 PM. 
"MISSING" my Jan PATAGONIA jacket it is my only winter jacket and I need it back soon. Last seen at St. Mary's Clubhouse Sat. nile Call Kevin x2474. No questions asked. 
LOST:One BURGANDY ASCENTE jacket in LaFortune. If you toot< it, acci­dently or otherwise. please return it. If you're not wolling to give up the jacket. please return the IDs. I've been looking forward to this coming weekend for going on 21 years. and it just wouldn't be the same without my license. Thanks Patricia x2910 
FOR RENT 
Two students to share apt. stove and relngerator. good neighbor hood 288· 0955/2n-3604. 
Efficiency apt. private entrance, good neighborhood. utilities paid 288­0955/2n-3604. 
Semi-furnished home, good neighbor­hood 255-3684/288-0955. 
Two straight males loof<ing for third, to share nice, full size housa. rent $125 plus 113 utilities. dean, non-smoker desired. house is lcr cated in quiet area. dose to downtown. 15 min. from campus. for more info. call John, 233-6348 during the day. 
WANTED 
Aide needed to Columbus Fell 2211 Call Diane4149 
Want nde to SYRACUSE (or Ithaca) this -end? Call Bill4073 
Need ridon to Iowa City or Cedar Rapida 2/15-2/17 call Denny at 1714 
NEED RIDE TO WESTERN CHGO. SUBURB. FEB. 15 KATHLEEN 284-4416 
Female roommate wanted to Share 2· bedroom apt. $175/mth n utiHties. 2n­
4122 
FOR SALE 
5 BEDROOM HOUSE. FULLY FURNISHED. CLEAN AND IN NICE NEIGHBORHOOD. GOOD INVEST­MENT. $24,000 288·3109 EVENINGS 
APPLE lie Software: Wordprocessing Package $80(negotiable): ca114364 
TICKETS 
IF YOU GOT IT, I NEED IT II I NEED FOUR (4) GA'S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN DISTRESS PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT 3714. 
··························· 
My girl is coming from NY MUST get 2 GA's for BYU game!! Call Billy-2188 
PERSONALS 
PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234­0363. 24 hour hotline/free pregnancy test available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
BEST TIME·BEST VALUE: WHERE: DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING BREAK '85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­DENTS. CALL 239-5136 OR STOP BY SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1.5 LAFORTUNE, MON·FRI, 6-9pm 
OH, VALENTINE! 
BMI the ruah....come up to The Obaefver and place your Valentlne'a Day pereonal thla week. We've Ml allele a special category )uat for you to get rMI gooey with your hMrtthrob. The apeclal day Ia Thuraday, Feb. 14, but avoid long linea and come In today. 
Valentine Glamour Posters. Give that special guy his own poeter of you for Valentine's Day. Black and white or color. Posters by nationally published modet photographer, Joe Ringer. 287-0613. 
I'll buy Valentine's Day gifts ... not. 
Gel in? Get ovtr? Get through? Get out! 
................................................................ 
RACE Tl10MANI VOTE RACE FOR 
O.C. SENATOR. 
FORGET FLORIDAII SKI ASPEN, COLQRAOO THIS SPRING BREAK, AND GET A TAN TOO. $397 INCLUDES TRANSPORTATION, 7 NIGHTS LODGING. AND A 6 DAY LIFT PASS TO ALL FOUR OF ASPEN'S MOUNTAINS. IF INTERESTED CALL 3630 OR 3573. 

BORN TO SWING FROM CHAN­DELIERSIII DON SEYMOUR AND PAT MURPHY THEONLYDJS Tl1AT MAT· TERI WHAT MORE CAN YOU ASK FOR? HIRE THE ONLY DJS THAT MAT­TER' FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY OR SYR CALLDONAT35730A PAT AT33180R 3317. THANK YOU 
IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS Your Valentine's Day Headquaners--Most reasonable prices in South Bend. Place orders now until Tues .. Fell. 12. ORDER NOW IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
.................................... IT IS NOT TOO LATE TO RETURN 
YOUR OBSERVER SURVEYII DROP IT IN ANY ON-CAMPUS MAIL· BOX OR BRING IT TO THE OBSERVER OFFICES ON 3RO FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
LET US HAVE IT!I 
LET US HAVE ITII 
MORE OBSERVER SURVEYS ARE AVAILABLE IN Tl1E OBUD OFFICE ON 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE! 
. IT AIN'T TOO LATEl 
FRODO LIVES! 

Luke, Kommen Sle uber dunkelen Selle! 
P.W. Puckerbutt-135 by March or the car is mine. AMF 
IF YOU GOT IT, I NEED IT !! I NEED 4 GA'S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN DISTRESS PLEASE CALL RAMONAAT3714. 
DAYTONA $209 S.PADRE $249 Limited Space. Call by Friday. 284-4452 
SMC PROPOSITION '87: VOTE YES x COLEMAN pres. BURKEv-p HUNDMAN Treas. SULLIVAN Sec. We propose a fantastic Junior year! Please vote YES-FEB. 13 HCC 7-6. 
SMC/ND Fencing . .coming soon! Fell. 23 Thanks! Bye jefffff ..... 
CINOY.:BEWAA·E·~;·:;;;;;;;~~i~~'!l-h~~:;~ 
everywhere--even on 2nd (the brer). Call at your own risk. Remember. you'll have no one to blame but yourself. 
SORRY, CLEV. I COULDN'T RESIST!! 
Are you covered with bruises from slip­ping & sliding on the ice? Then go with the STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD TO FT LAUDr,RDALE & DAYTONA BEACH! To find out more about the sun and the fun, call SAB or go to the informational meeting Thursday !he 14th. Sign ups are at the Record Store. 
Har du vaeret indbudl til fastelavnsfes· ten? 
Class of '86 Make the difference between a GOOD and GREAT senior year vote 
Anne McCarthy-Pres. Mary Sauer • VP Mimi White · Sec. 
Francie White· Tres. on Fell. 13on HCC We can make the difference! 
YO ADRIAN! Or anyone etse at the party in 525 Grace on 1/26, Did you take our boxing glove? Please return II. Thank you. 
SUMMER PROGRAMS· MAY 22·JUNE 21, LONDON (Ireland, Scot, Parle) and June 16 • July 15 ROME (Parla, G.-, SWitz, IUIIy) Organizational meetl"'l Mon. : Feb. 18 348 Madeleva (7:00 • London • 8:00 Rome.) For Info Call Prof. A. R. Black 284-4460 or 272·3728. 
HI KATIE, it's me. This is YOUR personal! How·s the play going? Please write and let me know. 
MIKE RIGNEY No Longer Exists! Hen­ceforth, The World Shall Know Him As: STINKY! (Congrats,Stink!) 
CEREBRUS ... CEREBRUS CEREBRUS CEREBRUS THE ALTERNATIVE! 
Need ride to CHICAGO Northwest sub­urbs. Call Fran 2598. 
Need ride to CHICAGO Northwest sub­urbs. Weekend of Fab. 15-17. Call Fran at 2598. 
............................... 

Need ride to NORTHWESTERN or nearby area. Weekend of Feb. 15-17. Call Minam4174. 
Annmarie, do you still exist? 
Best of Luck JOE HARMON You've got what It takes AND MORE!!! love, Lynn 
For those of you who did not know, yester· day was Winston Griffin's 20th Birthday' Give him a call 3376 and Wish him belated B-day greetings. 
Kathy Shannon Kathy Sommer Carrie Baker Diane Yoder Karen Kostecky Laura Dowden Cindy Weeks 
Do we throw mean partiH or what? Lisa Marie 
LUNCH LUNCH LUNCH LUNCH LUNCH LUNCH LUNCH THURSDAY FEB.1411:3Q-1:30 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
THE RABBIT LIVESIll 
RIDE NEEDED TO U OF I. CHAMPAIGN ON FRIDAY, FEB. 15 -RETURNING SUNDAY. CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296. PLEASE KEEP TRYING 'CUZ I'M NEVER HOME! 
WANTED RIDE TO DENVER FOR SPRING BREAK. I'LL BE YOUR FRIEND FOR LIFE. CALl JUSTINE 2633 
Vote!Vote!Votel Elections today lor Stu­
dent Body President and Vice President and all Senators. Voting for on-campus students from 11-1 and 4-6 in the dorms, and from noon to 4 lor off-campus stu­dents in LaFortune at the 06UD ber. Seniors can vote. 
N.D. WOMEN YOU CAN'T HAVE YOUR MEN 
Hey Jude! thanl<s. 
MAKE A DATE FOR LUNCH THURSDAY FEB.14 11 :3D-1 :30 CEN­TER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
IRISH BOXER SHORTS!! $5/pair call Liz at 2761 423 Lyons 
NEED AIDE to U. of I./Champaign this Friday to Sunday. Call Marya at 1276 or 1296. 
WHAT A WEEKEND! ROSSI'S IS THE BEST. THANKS TO CAROLYN. BETSY, MARYBETH AND MOST OF ALL...CHAIS KELLY FOR PUTTING UP WITH ME. BUT THEN, AGAIN, I HAD TO PUT UP WITH YOUR SNORING. NO MORE MARRIED MEN FOR MEI!I LOVE. WANNABREWSKI. P.S. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 
THE MIX FOR 86 STEBER 
SPRAUL 
ZIMMER MURRAY 
VOTE FEB. 13, HCC 

TO MY SQUEEZABLE SMURF: I WISH YOU THE BEST OF LUCK TODAY, BUT NO MATTER HOW IT TURNS OUT I'LL STILL LOVE VA TONS & TONS & TONS & TONS! XOXOXOXOX. YOUR BFW 
SMURF; I LOVE YOU! BFW 
SMURF. FOR THE SAKE OF THE ARGUMENT I KNOW YOU CAN DO IT! BFW 
'BECCA CUSSEN, that seductrve Rochester beauty, turns 20 today .Stop by 215 Farley to congratulate her in an ap­propriate way I 
Tl1E SPOUNGE -THE QUICKER­PICKER-UPPER! 
Fiioeiis···Neeoeo···To···N-'sHviLLe 
WKENDOFFEB22.CALLMIMI ]4283. 
WHO WERE THOSE GIRLS DOING AEROBICS IN O'HARE AIRPORT FRIDAY NIGHT AT 12:30AM.? 
Did you see KEL vacuumong in the P.W. lobby Saturday night? "It was puuurple!" 
Marc Miller Keenan Hamster turns 19 today! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! your sis 
HEY CUTEBUNSI Yes you, Pat O'Shaughnessy. This is the girl from Econ last semester telling you that I just recently broke up with my boyfriend and am looking for a new men. YOU have been chosen. I am In one of your ctassea again this semester. You will have to guess which one. S.A. 
DANA BAINBRIDGE, KRIST! HEFT, BARB STEVENS, & BYRON STEVENS· P.....-Shirley In The Ob&ervfN. 
Marc needs ride this week-end to any NE OHIO city, preferably Canton. PI-call 4141. 
To Lieutenant Fish, Scarfish & Lord Fish: Fun initiation-I am legal STOP in MNI JAM! Thanks I !beer love Fill> America 
He's dead He's dead He's dead. Bela Logusi Ia dead. I'm dead I'm dead I'm dead. 
Yo Gang, Happy Tu..-yt Love. T 

-----------~--­
The Observer 

APPhoto 

Although Wayne Gretzky seems to have lost his night will be his sixth appearance in the All-Star 
bead in this game, be will retain his cool on the ire competition. during tonight's NHL All-Star game. T 

Show ND or SMC student or staff ID and get a 10% discount 
18061 State Road 23 
Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK ' South Bend, Indiana 48837 (219) 277-2870 
THE EARLY.~ BIRD... --~­ 
PREPARE FOR: Classes Starting Feb. 16, 17  
MCAT·DAT Col1 Dors henincs & Wtehftds 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135  
=. 93 h ~ '/~~~/t' : Track


MID-WINTER SPECIALS-. Dinners Under s6.00 
No Coupons Necessary 
Reg. 

FILET___________________ s7.95 .STUFFED FILET_________ s8.95 s5.95 
-(wrapped in bacon and stuffed w/mushrooms) 
LAKE PERCH___________ '>7.95 s5.95 RAINBOW TROUT _____ Sf,.95 s5.25 B.B.Q. HALF CHICKEN_ ss.75 s5.25 
_Each entree includes a bottomless tureen of homemade soup, wked bread, and butter, plus your choice of -­baked potato, home fries or rice mason. --.,... ~. -_: 
~ _C!ffcr not ''.Jiid with ,m~ other ad~·ertiscd ~pee iJis or cnupon!>.;::::-.:.-. 
hpire~ Febructry 16, 1985 
.~ 
Tuesday, February 12, 1985-page 11 
B.P., P .E., lead league in interhall basketball 
By MICHAEL FLANNERY 
Sports Writer 
With two weeks left in the regular season, two questions loom in the minds of players and coaches in the women's interhall basketball league. Question number one: Can anyone beat Breen-Phillips A team? Ques­tion number two: IfReggie Richter is healthy, can anyone beat P-E? 
The answer to the first question is "I doubt it." B.P. A is on a roll; it are 7-0 going into Thursday's clash with Farley A. Javier Oliva, coach of Pasquerilla East, stated what must be a league concensus. "B.P. A is tough .... very, very tough." 
. Farley B forfeited to B-P A on Sun­day. Captain Kathy McCarthy says the rest won't affect B-P A. "A week layoff shouldn't hurt us," she said. "At this point in the season, we've got our game down." 
The answer to the second ques­tion isn't so easy. A good one might be "Yes, but only because B.P. A is around." With Reggie Richter, P.E. was 4-1, and its only loss was to B.P. Without Richter, P.E. lost to Walsh 29· 27. 
NHL stars will face off tonight in Cup rematch 
Associated Press 
CALGARY, ALBERTA Wayne Gretzky thinks the National Hockey League All-Star Game could turn into something of a rematch of the last two Stanley Cup finals. 
Gretzky, the record-setting center ofthe Edmonton Oilers, will start for the Clarence Campbell Conference in tommorow night's sold out game at the Olympic Saddledome. On his right will be Jari Kurri, his regular linemate with the Oilers. Detroit's John Ogrodnick will be the starting left wing for Coach Glen Sather's team. 
" After the first shift, 1 think Slats (Sather) will put Mike Krushelnyski (Gretzky's usual left wing in Edmon­ton this season) out with us," said 

Gretzky. "There's no big adjustment for us to play together." 
IfSather opts for that strategy, he will have an all-Oilers No. 1 line on the ice against the Prince of Wales Conference's top unit of right wing Mike Bossy, center Brent Sutter and left wing John Tonelli. Those three form the top line on the New York Islanders, who beat the Oilers in the 1983 finals and lost to them in 1984. 
"That would be interesting and not surprising," said Tonelli. "Gretzky is the premier player and I've had the chance to play with him (at the Canada Cup) and appreciate the things he does." 
Bossy, who is appearing in his sixth All-Star Game -as is Gretzky ­was named Wales captain by Coach Al Arbour ofthe Islanders. 
e•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~tll••••••••
!JOHN MARSHALL~ 
Oliva makes no bones about the loss. "I think we're at least ten points better than Walsh with Reggie Rich­ter," she said. 
Richter scored twenty points against Pasquerilla West after recovering from the illness which forced her out of the Walsh game. 
P.E. plays Lyons on Thursday. Team mates hope to have Richter in bed by 9:00p.m. Wednesday. 
Walsh continues to surprise everyone but itself. The only blemish on its 5-1 record is a loss to 
B.P. In its latest victory over Lewis B, Laura Gleason scored ten points, enough to earn player-of-the-game 
honors  and  praise  from  her  
teammate, Laurie Hellert.  
"Laura  has  an  excellent  turn­ 

around jump shot -she can kill you in the middle," said Hellert. "And she never misses a free throw." 
Walsh will need Gleason and more down the stretch ifit hopes to keep its Cinderella season from turn­ing into a pumpkin. It plays Lewis A on Thursday. 
Farley A wants to derail the B.P. express on Thursday. At 5-1, it could move into a virtual tie for first place with a victory. Its first plan to turn this game into a Valentine's Day mas­sacre is to bomb from the outside. Kara England, Mary Borkowski, and Marilu Almeida will do the demoli­tion. Ifthat doesn't work, it will go to the big guns inside, Tricia Booker andJanet Shander. All of this will be accompanied by a mine field of defenses, including three different zones and man-to-man. 
Is Farley A worried about B-P A's full-court, man-to-man pressure? Not according to Borkowski. "I'd love to play against man-to-man," she said. "We'll just spread it out, pass and pickaway, and take as many lay-ups as we can get." 
Lyons still has an outside shot at the playoffs, but it must knock off 
P.E. on Thursday, then win the rest ofits games. The rest ofthe league is now cast in the role of spoilers. Of these teams, Badin could be the big­gest factor, having won two straight. It has games left against B.P. and Far­ley. 
The standings as of February 11: B-P A, 7-0; Farley A, 5-1; Walsh, 5-1; P-E, 4-2; Lyons, 4-3; Badin, 3-3; Lewis 
A, 3-3; Lewis B, 2-5; P-W, 1-5; Farley 15 7 
f_B,-· -;B--PB,_o-_.___ 
: LAW SCHOOL C.t,f:l·. : 
13 Peac tree,'tt., N.E. Atlanta, GA 30309 Y·~·· • 1 
i• F:.::~~~~~~;e~:;A~~?.:n; fl~····r:'i continued from page 16 
. VI : they had hoped to place higher in : Day or Evening Classes • the team standings. Part ofthe prob­: ...,,..... · ; lem was due to the unexpected : John Mars#Jall Law School admits without regard • troubles of high jumper Uoyd con­
• to national or ethnic origin ! stable and pole vaulter Chris Matteo. : • Both of these performers contrib­; APPROVED FOR VETERANS : uted valuable points to the Irish 
• Graduationfrom John Marshall meets the • cause in the past, but on Friday they 
: ; each no-heighted in their events. : requirements for admission to the Bar : The Irish must rebound from this : Examination in G_eorgia and Indiana ONLy : meet and prepare for the Central 
• (404) 872 35 e Collegiate Conference Indoor
• • 93 • Championships this weekend. This
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• meet includes many top teams from 
Haircut, shampoo, 
W~t JKnigltts oftlttC!Iastlt 
Men's Hair Styling a 1 its finest... 
272-0312 minutes from campus ! 277-1619 
the Big Ten and Mid-American Con­ference, as well as several top Mid­west independents. 
While the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet was a disappointment, it pro­vided some hope for the future. With the expected return to form of Matteo and Constable, along with continued strong performances from the other jumpers, the Irish should garner many points in the field events. 
Also, the Notre Dame sprinters can be counted on to supply a lot of support in the shorter events. Fi­nally, the strong performance in last weekend's meet by the middle dis­tance and distance men allows the Irish to be competitive in all the events in future meets. 


The Observer Tuesday, February 12, 1985-page 12 
Men's swim team wins three meets in Indianapolis; record now at 7-4 
By KEVIN HERBERT "Another key factor In our vic­John Koselka continued the Irish Sports Writer wries this past weekend was the vast rampage by setting his fastest time of Improvement In our Urnes," the vet· the year In the SO-meter free on his 
The Notre Dame men's swim eran swim coach conUnued. way to taking first place in the event. team is picking up steam as il heads The quick start that Stark Is refer­He also broke the 22 second barrier towards the Midwestern Cities Con­log to occurred In the first event of in the race, with a time of 21. 90. ference meet this weekend. the meet, the 400-meter medley Chris Green continued Notre The team's engine is being fueled relay. The team recorded Its fastest Dame's winning ways by recording a 
by six consecuUve vicrories, three of time of the year In the event first-place finish in the 200-meter in· these wins coming in a four-team ( 3:40.89) en route to a first-place dividual medley. In the process, meet this past weekend in In­medley relay finish. Green posted his fastest time of the 
dianapolis at the site of many world· The trend conUnued as no less year, 2:03.34. class swimming events, the Indiana· than nine other swimmers Brian Casey lead the field in the University Natatorium. proceeded to mark their fastest 200-meter fly, and posted his fastest 
Notre Dame won the meet with times ofthe season In various events. time of the year on his way to a full 96 team points, Vincennes was the In the second event of the meet, seven-second victory. nearest challenger with 77 points the 1000-meter freestyle, Steve Cof­followed by Saint Louis and Xavier fey and Dave Newman teamed up to Other swimmers who recorded with 18 and 11 points respectively. record a second and fourth-place their fastest times of the year were 
The meet was also scored as a finish for the Irish, respectively. In .IelfGrace placing second in the 1 00­triple-dual event between the four the process, Coffey recorded his meter free, Brian Casey finishing schools, the reason that the Irish fastest time ofthe year, 10:30.98. second in the 200-meter 
were credited with three wins. The records continued to fall In breaststroke and Mark Jensen in the 
The key to Notre Dame's success the 200-meter free as John Coffey '50-meter free. was summed up by the men's head set his fastest pace of the year en swimming coach Dennis Stark."We route to a second-place finish. His The three wins this past weekend 
got off to a real quick start that gave teammate, Dave Newman, trailed gives Notre Dame a six-meet win· us a psychological advantage for the Coffey by less than a second in ning streak and a 7-4 overall record. rest ofthe meet. finishing third. heading into the conference meet. 
,,r

Women's swim team ends regular 
..........!4 

AP Phow
season, prepares for NSC title meet 
Okalahoma's David johnson guided the Sooners this week as they moved up three spots in the Associated Press Top Twenty Poll
By DAVE WILSON next three events however, and after Byrne also posted a victory in the 
to fourth place. Meanwhile, St. fohn's and Georgetown continue
Sports Writer five races, Vincennes led by just 200-yard backstroke (2:19.16), and 
their battleforfirst place.
three points, 31-28. helped the 400-yard medley relay 
In final preparation for this The one-meter diving competi· team place second earlier in the weekend's conference champion­tion proved to be the turning point meet. ships, the Notre Dame women's of the meet for the Irish, as Andrea Other victories for the Irish in­• swim team closed out the regular Bonny posted her first of two vic· cluded a personal best 25.66 in the : SUMMER PROGRAMS season with a victory over Vin­tories and gave the team the lead for 50-yard freestyle for Boss and co· cennes, Saint Louis, and Xavier in good at 37·35. Bonny and co-diver : ND-SMCSTUDENTS
captain Venette Cochiolo's 2:33.38 
last Friday night's triple-dual compe· Colleen Ambrose later placed first in the 200-yard breast stroke. The • tltion In Indianapolis. and second, respectively, In the team won the meet with a point· The Irish completed the season three-meter diving event. total of 93, while Vincennes took •• • LONDON 
R0\1E •• 
with an Impressive 11-1 record, in­"We missed having Suzanne second with 60 points, and Saint 
• 

cluding wins In the last ten meets. (DeVine)," said Stark, "but she Louis took third with 31 points. : May 22-June 2 June 16-July 15"We went with our starters, and wasn't feeling up to par, and I'd Notre Dame will leave romorrow the girls really performed well," said rather have her well for next for the conference championships • •
• Trcruelin Ireland Trcruel in France ••
head coach Dennis Stark. "We have weekend. in St. Louis. The three-day event will some good momentum now as we "Amy Darlington and Barbara •
include teams from St. Louis, Xavier, 
•

head into the conference meet this Byrne swam consistently and I'm Evansville, Valparaiso, and Loyola­• Scotlandi frtJnce GermanyiSuit!erland •weekend." very happy to see Andrea (Bonny) Chicago. The Irish are defending •
• Courses In Art, 8uslness and Economics, Education ••
coming along so well." conference champions. Beginning with the 400-yard relay Darlington placed first in the 209· "I think Evansville will be our big· English, History and Hollan
• ~ !7 : 
and continuing into the sprint races, yard freestyle early in the meet with gest challenge," said Stark. "I also • Friday's meet quickly became a bat­a personal best of 1 :56.76. She then think we are peaking at just the right • ,..A.#A J •
• Organizational Meeting: Feb. 18th
tle between the Irish and Vincennes. went on ro place second in the 1 00-time in the season. This meet will be 
• ,·_\~~{/ •• 
Without Suzanne Devine, a regular yard freestyle ( 54.60) and finally, mostly 100 and 200-yard races, and 
e Rm 349 Madaleva (SMC) ~, • •
relay team member who was sick, along with Karen Kramer,Julie Boss, • lately the shorter distances have 11 1 
: 7:00pm London 8:00pm Rome ~"'-:, . , ; :
Notre Dame lost the event by just and Byrne, took first in the 400-yard been our strength. We should per­
-_, ~. i \

two seconds with a time of 4:18.97. freestyle relay, with a time of form to our capacity." 
• For further info. call t;.;.i:f-~--•
The Irish posted high marks in the 3:48.08. 
: Prof.A.R.Biack 4460 or 272-3726 "':'".:-1 ·~~ : • 4461 or 4491 e • • • • e e e e e Passport pictures will be takene • • e • • • • • 
St. John's still No. 1, Hoyas second 
Auoclated Press are currently on the nation's longest league victories. Division I winning streak · 14 games Georgetown, which received the 
St. John's and Georgetown · and they set a Big East Conference other first-place vote, was named remained No. 1 and 2, respectively, record with Saturday's 70-68 deci­second on every other ballot to ln The Associated Press college bas· sion over Villanova, 11 consecutive finish with 1,217 points. ketball poll yesterday, while the rest of the Top Twenty swapped places. 
After a week of upsets, the real fight was for No. 3. where Michigan became the top challenger to the 

invites Seniors two Big East powers. 
St. John's received 63 of 64 first· 
to the ~1 orris Inn
place votes and 1,279 points from the nationwide panel of sports writ· ers and broadcasters. The Redmen Alurnni Roorn 
APTopT-nty The Top Twenty college college beak leamsln The Aaaoctated Pres• poll. wtlh llrSt·place voles 
Remember Your Valentine on lVcdncsday, February 13th 
1n parentheses. thts season's records and total points Poonts baaed on 20·t9-t8·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are ll&llcized. 
With Flowers From 

5:30 to 7:00 P.l\1. 
1 St. John's (63) 1!1·1 2 Geo<getown ( 1) 21·2 
Wygants

3. Mtchogen 18·3 Meet our executives and enioy refreshments. Tell us about 4 Oklahoma 19·4 
your career goals and hear about the exciting
5. Memphts Sl 17·2 
6. Georgta Tech 18-4 Executive Development Program at Lord & Taylor,
7. Duke 17·4 
8 Syracuse 16·4 Free Deliver~ to ND and SMC America's leading fashion specialty store. Even if you have 
9. 
So. Methodtst 18·4 

10. 
Kansas not previously thought of retailing as a career, 11 Iowa 19-4 


you may want to know about the many 
20-4 Z3Z·33S4

12 LOUISiana Tech 2()-2 
13. North Carol•na 18·5 511 interesting opportunities at Lard & Taylor. 14 Nev ·Las Vegas 18·3 281 
15 Tulsa 18·4 251 If you have proven abilities and a record 18. Villanova 15-6 243 
We also wire flowers worldwide of achievement, and look forward to the challenge
17. llllnoos 18·7 236 18 Oregon St. 17·4 182 (member FTD and Telefloral) of managing o profitable business, 
19 Ala.·Birmtngham 21-5 129 
20. Maryland HH 123 Lord & Taylor looks forward to meeting you. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 12, 1985-page 13 

Senior captain Phil Baty and first year coach Fran McCann spark enthusiasm on the Notre Dame wrestling team. The Irish are rebuilding their pro­
gram and pushing their way to the NC4A top twenty. 

Baty commands respect on young team despite disappointing season 
By BRIAN McCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
Although much of the talk sur­rounding the Notre Dame wrestling team has been ofthe underclassmen, they still need the guidance and leadership that can only be provided by a senior. 
As the only three time monogram winner on the squad, captain Phil Baty is the senior younger Irish wrestlers look to when they need help not only with wrestling tech­nique, but for also for motivation. 
Unfortunately, Baty's season has not been as successful as his previ­ous three when he compiled a 98­21-1 mark in the 177 pound weight class. He appears to be a victim of a program that was experiencing a decline over the past few years until it was rejuvenated by the hiring of new head coach Fran McCann. 
"I think things would have been a lot different for me ifcoach McCann had been here since I was a fresh­man," says Baty, emphasizing the words "a lot." 
Seeing the team develop this year under McCann has been enjoyable despite his own difficulties. The new coach has instilled a pride and excitement into the entire team and even though the emphasis is on the the future of Notre Dame wrestling, Baty is glad to be part the beginning ofa quality program. 
"I'm real optimistic about Notre Dame wrestling again," says Baty. 
As captain ofthe young team, Baty understands the responsibility he has in encouraging an attitude in the underclassmen which will foster the success that appears to be just around the corner. 
"I try to help them out when they getting down," says Baty. "And they're not always used to what wrestling is like on the college level." 
As a high school senior, Baty was as interested in preparing for medi­cal school as he was in wrestling on the collegiate level. Both of these 

ARCHITECTURE ., MAJORS ) HAVE 
DESIGNS ON DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
277-2151 

goals have been reached by the Cedar Springs, Michigan native. Baty will finish his wrestling career as Notre Dame's all-time leader in wins and will attend medical school next fall. 
Baty promises to keep an eye on the team after he graduates. 
Next year the team wrestles at Michigan and I should be living within 45 minutes of the University of Michigan so I'm sure I'll be there to see how everyone's doing," says Baty. "I'll always be interested in wrestling. You can't just drop some­thing you've been doing for ten years." 
Looking back on his four year career as a Notre Dame wrestler, Baty says what he will remember most is not the matches and the trophies. 
"The thing that I'll remember most is the people I've worked with. Donny Heintzelman and I have been together for four years," says Baty. "These people are not just good wrestlers but good people. I'll re­member them more than I'll remem­ber the wins and losses." 

ND falls to Dlinois St., Faces hoosiers toni~ht 
ByJOE BRUNETII 
Sports Writer 
If you're Fran McCann right now you have to be disappointed. His Irish wrestling squad is riding a two match losing streak and is comingoff a poor showing against Illinois State last weekend. That's not the way McCann would like to be entering tonight's matchup against Indiana at theACC. 
McCann's squad dropped their second straight dual meet loss this past weekend to the 18th-ranked Redbirds in Normal, Ill. And it wasn't a pretty sight. The Irish could only muster two wins in their 36-7 loss. 
"I was extremely disappointed," said McCann. "We had the people to go 5-5 (wins-losses). We didn't go in with a good attitude. It wasn't a very good effort. It was the low point of the season. I'm not going to make excuses. We didn't perform up to our ability." 
After being idle the weekend of Feb. 2 because of a cancelled meet against Western Illinois, McCann's squad put in one of their best weeks of practice and then came out flat against the Redbirds. · 
"We had a great week at practice," said a disappointed McCann. "Then, we went into the meet and looked like we hadn't worked out at all." 
McCann knew going into the match that his troops would be out­matched skill and ability-wise, but it was the lack ofdesire that upset him 
the most. 
"They're not in the right state of con mue J rom page 
mind. When they got out there they don't believe in themselves; they don't think they can win," McCann said. 
"The whole key is that you have to want to make it to Nationals," he ~ontinued. "You have to have that desire. We don't have it and you need it." 
Ifthere was one bright spotfor the Irish, it was the performance of 167­pound John Krug, who won decisively 11-2 en route to his sixth­straight victory. Krug's ledger for the season stands at 24-7-1 
"John is starting to believe in him­self," said McCann. "He's always motivated and works hard." 
Senior Guy Locksmith, wrestling. at 126 pounds, provided the other points for the Irish with his 10-6 decision. Locksmith's record remains unblemished at 6-0-1. 
Freshman Ken Kasler (15-10) once again performed admirably in this his first collegiate season losing a close 1 0-9 decision to the sixth­ranked 158-pound wrestler in the nation. 
"Kasler did a nice job again," praised the first-year Irish mentor. "He wrestled the sixth-ranked kid in the country and didn't lose his confi­dence. He lost, but he battled him to the end." 
McCann's 6-3 Irish will host the Hoosiers tonight for their last home meet of the season. Indiana coach Jim Humphreys faces the same situa­tion McCann is in right now. He is in his first-year at Indiana with his task at hand being to rebuild the wres­tling program and put the Hoosiers in the top 20. 
After last weekend's poor perfor­mance at Illinois State, McCann definitely is concerned about the Hoosiers. A win tonight would put his squad on the right track going into next weekend's tough meet against Purdue and Nebraska. 
"They'll be tough. They beat Illi­nois State," said McCann. "They have three really good kids at 118, 150, and heavyweight. And all three should go to Nationals." 
Last year the Irish defeated Indiana 23-11 in a match at the ACC, but this year's Hoosier squad has a new coach and a new outlook. 
Wrestlers 
t· d r, 16 

something that has never before been seen at Notre Dame. There will be no more Defiances and Val­paraisos on the schedule in the future. 
"It has to be a gradual process. You don't want to throw the kids to the dogs right away," he continues. "Within three years we'll have our top 20 schedule, which is necessary if we are going to attract the top­quality athlete." 
Another thing Notre Dame wres­

tling has lacked in the past is a year­
round program, something present 
at all the top programs in the 
country. McCann knows this, and he 
has already started a program that in­
volves his wrestlers to work during 
the off-season as well as the pre­
season. 
This year-round program is where Azevedo will have a big impact. The ex-Olympic team member is a freestyle wrestling expert, some­thing that McCann will use to attract wrestlers to Notre Dame. 
"Some of these kids want to 

wrestle internationally," he con­
tinues. "We have to offer that. Our 
recruits are concerned about that." 
McCann has already taken steps by scheduling a freestyle dual meet with the Japanese National Team here on April 4. 
Acoach may have the recruits, the 

schedule and the year-round pro­
gram, but without the backing ofthe 
administration and the athletic de­
partment, he is fighting an uphill bat­
tle that he is destined to lose. 
"If the school supports him (McCann)," comments Joe Seay, wrestling coach of the second­ranked Oklahoma State Cowboys, "then it is very possible for Fran to do it. They need the financial sup­port ofthe school to bring in the big recruits." 
Luckily for McCann, for the first time the University and the athletic department are providing the finan­cial backing and support necessary to build a wrestling powerhouse. 
With everything going for McCann, Azevedo, and Notre Dame wrestling, it seems that Notre Dame's wrestling future looks very bright indeed. Without a staff like McCann and Azevedo the future of the program would not seem so se­cure, but with this determined duo it seems a top 20, no a top I 0 na­tional ranking, is almost a sure thing. 

~; ..
' .J
,r '""1J"""'
. }, ·. 

The Observer Tuesday, February 12, 1985 -page 14 
Faust expects to sign 17 high school seniors to national letters of intent 

By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
The last time that the Notre Dame football team was the hot topic on campus was around Christmas time. The news concerned the balmy wea­ther of Hawaii and the much­debated Aloha Bowl trip. 
Tomorrow is another day that college football will be in the news even though no games have been played. It Is the first day that colleges can sign seniors to national letters of intent. 
The coaching staff has spent much of the last month and a half on the road, recruiting the best high school athletes in the country. 
Even though Head Coach Gerry Faust and his staff have enjoyed probably the best four years of recruiting in college football, the fact that his teams have complied only a 25-20-1 record during that time could keep some ofthe best tal­ent away from Notre Dame. 
Last year's recruiting class was the smallest of the Faust era, so the coaches know raw numbers are needed. The Irish have 30 scholar­ships to work with, after using only 19last year. 
Faust has had verbal committ­mcnts from 1 7 players as of last weekend, and reportedly met with some players over the weekend. 
Heading the list of recruits who have informed Faust they intend to play for the Irish in 1985 is running back Mark Green from Riverside Poly in California. Green, who gained over 1,300 yards during his career, Is jet-quick and can also play in the defensive backfield, where the roster is thin on experience. 
After losing tight ends Mark Bavaro and Ricky Gray, Faust tabbed 
Fencers 
continuedfrom page /6 
is the only undefeated fencer on the overall Irish roster. 
"In epee, Andy and Christian arc going well," said DeCicco. "They only had one loss a piece. The pleas­ant surprise there was the fencing of Tim Vaughan and Brian St. Clair. We need that kind of result to take care of that one weakness that I thought we might have, namely, that number three spot in epee." 
According to DeCicco, a special impetus for the success of his team came from the Buckeye squad which was hesitant to meet the Irish on a neutral floor after the Irish were unable to meet them in a bout they hosted two weeks ago. 
"When we fenced Ohio State, our kids were so mad because Ohio State didn't want to fence us because we were originally scheduled to fence them at their home but were unable to due to the snow," said DeCicco. "We finally got them to fence, and in the meantime, our kids were so up­tight that they just wanted to fence Ohio State just to prove to them that we would beat them and they did. 
"No coach could ask for more," DeCicco continued. "It was better than I expected. Our fourth and fifth and sixth men were winning just like the starters, and when that happens, you're bound to win." 
In the women's foil, the Irish were also successful as they took three of four matches to go 9-4 on the year. 
The wins for the Irish came against Michigan-Dearborn, 11-5, Richard Morris, a talented 6-4, 222­pound tight end from Lynchburg, Va., Ray Dumas, a 6-2, 175-pound wide receiver from St. Louis also is verbally committed. 
At quarterback, two players have announced their intention to play for the Irish: Steve Belles, a 6-3, 190­poundcr from Phoenix, Ariz., and Pete Graham, at 6-2, 190-lbs from Rumson, N.J. 
Other players who will sign with Notre Dame tomorrow are offensive linemen Steve Bynum, a 6-4, 225­poundcr from Chicago Julian; Tom Gorman, a 6-5, 225-pound native of Chicago's Brother Rice who can also double as a punter, and Andy Heck, at 6-5, 240-lbs from Fairfax, Va. 
Four more linemen arc also ex­pected to play for the Irish: Steve Huffman, a 6-4, 220-pound from Dal­las whose brothers Dave and Tim played for Notre Dame in the late 1970's; Joe Kelty, a Youngstown, Oh., native at 6-6, 270-lbs and teammates Chuck Killian, a 6-6, 255­poundcr and Marty Uppincott, at 6­6, 270-lbs, both from Northeast Catholic in Philadelphia. 
On the defensive side of the ball, seven players have decided on Notre Dame. Craig Hudson, a 6-1, 21 0-pound linebacker from Cincin­nati Moeller; Mark Nigro, a 6-3 220­pound linebacker from Villa Park, Ill.; Steve Roddy, a 6-3, 215-pounder from Harleysville, Pa., and Kurt Zackrison, at 6-4, 215-lbs arc also candidates at linebacker. 
Three players are being tabbed as potential defensive halfbacks: Aaron Robb, 6-1, 190-lbs from Spokane, Wash.; Corny Southall, a Rochester N.Y., native at 6-2, 180-lbs, and George Streeter, a 6-3, 195-pounder from ChicagoJulian. 
The emphasis of this year's 
Detroit, 12-4, and Oakland, 9-0. The Irish, however, fell short against Ohio State losing by a close 7-9 mark. 
"All we needed to do was win one of the last three bouts against Ohio State and we would have beaten them," said DeCicco. "That would have been a nice feather in ourcap." 
Leading the Irish was freshman Molly Sullivan. Fencing from the number one position, Sullivan went 12-1 to move to a 33-4 mark on the year. With 33 wins, she is leading the overall Irish team. 
Helping the Irish achieve their victories were sophomores Vittoria Quaroni (I0-3, 23-I7) and Cindy Weeks (8-5, 21-16) and junior cap­tainJanet Sullivan (8-10, 19-24 ). 
While DeCicco realizes the youth ofhis team and their need for experi­ence, he also hopes that his foilists would develop a little more consis­tency from the number two, three, and four spots. Nevertheless, he believes that they will be competi­tive in the end. 
"I'm anxiously looking forward tv the qualifying tournament (for the NCAA tournament)," said DeCicco. "It's going to be Ohio State, Wiscon­sin, Wayne State, and Notre Dame fighting for those three qualifying berths from the Midwest. If we could beat either Wisconsin or Ohio State, we might get into the nationals (March 18-23 at Notre Dame) with our women's team." 
For both Irish teams, it will be an~ other week of work as the Irish 
preprare  to  face  Case  Western  
Reserve,  Cleveland  State,  Miami,  
Bowling  Green,  and  Oberlin  in  

Cleveland, Ohio, on Saturday. 

''Be Good to Your Baby Before it is Born'' 
dpMqr.~!J,£)tR.tw~ 
recruiting effort was the offensive line, where the Irish will have four seniors to replace after next season, and on defense -especially in the secondary. 
One of the spots that a propect or two was needed but did not show up was a fullback. Notre Dame lost its top two players at that position, and have only a freshman who had little playing time, unless some rearrange­ments are made. 
One player who some recuiting experts say "can make the difference between a good recruiting year and a great one" has Notre Dame on his list offinal choices. Ned Bolcar, a 6­2, 21 0-pound linebacker from Phil­lipsburg, N.J., has been desribed as one of the best hitters available this year. 
Notre Dame had a very difficult time arranging time for recruits to visit the campus -with only two weekends set aside instead of the usual three or four. Those days were also very cold, which may have deterred some high school athletes who also were interested in south­ern colleges. 
Offensive coordinator Ron Hud­son has been instrumental in the apparent success of the recruiting effort, along with recruiting coord­The Obscrv~r /File Photo inator and receivers coach Mike 
The Notre Dame fencing team continued its push for the NCAA 
Stock and Faust. But the real news of 
National Championship and an undefeated season this weekend 
success is set to come tomorrow 
as the Irish wonfive dual meets. Mike Chmiel details this weekend's
when the players sign their names 
action on page 16 
on the dotted line. 



9·elose

35 ~ Beers 'til JJ Proeeeds to 10 to Loean (;enter 
Thursda~, Fellruar~ 14 
Valentine's Da)l Bash QUARTER BEERS 9 · elose Free earnations to first JOO ladles. 
Frida~, Fellruar~ 15 
~·· qo¢ IMPORTS 9·elose 
Saturda~,Fellruar~16 
9 ·elose

75 t1 14 oz. DRAFTS 

---------------~ 
~c:tcJlC3l~--------------------------------T-ue_~__r_,F_eb_ru_~___12_,_19_8_s___P~--e--15 
Campus 
•12 
p.m. -Seminar, "EI Salvador: Is That 'Cl'ntn' Thl'rl'?". Jaml's Dunkl'rky. Faculty Fdlow. Sponsorl'd hy Kdlogg Institutl'. Room I:) I Dl'cio. 

•I 
l: I 0 I 25'; p.m. Art Noontalks, "Autochroml's: Color Photography." Richard Stl'Vl'ns. ND. O'Shaughnl'ssy Galkry East. 

•.~:50 
p.m.-Graduate Seminar, "Optical Analysis of Flows in Pro,q:ssing Gt'oml'tril's." Michad Mackay. ll. of Illinois-Urbana. Room 5';6 Fitzpatrick. 

•.~:-~0 
-<; p.m. -Holocaust Film Series, "Blood and Honor." Carroll Hall ( SMC ) . 

•4 
p.m. -Research Seminar, "Simulation Modd of Aluminum Chc.·mistry in Hl'adwatl'r Ac.:idifkd Strl'am." Richard Hoopl'r. Corndl Univc.·rsity. Room .~0:) Cushing. 


...:50 p.m.-Biology Seminar, "Inhibitors ofSitl'­Spl'cifk Rl'comhination." Prof. Michad Fl'n­nl'wald. ND. Room 27H Galvin. 
•7 
p.m. -Basketball, St. Mary's vs. Valparaiso. Angda Athktk Facility. 

•7 
p.m.-Wrestling. ND vs. Indiana. ACC Auxiliary Gym. 


• -. 9 & 1 1 p.m. -Ford Theater Movie, "On Goldl'n Pond." Enginl'l'fing Auditorium. All Procl'l'd go to MS Campaign. 
•7 
p.m.-Film/Discussion, "Your Ndghbor's Son: The.· Making of a Tonura." Cushwa-Ldghton Li­brary Ml'dia Cl'ntt'r. Sponsorl'd by ND Branc.·h of Amnt"sty Intt'rnational. 

•7 
p.m.. -Meeting, Knights of Columbus. Fr. Burtchadl. K of C Building. Mt'mbt'fs Only. 

•7 
p.m.-Resume Workshop, Dr. Edsall. ND Mar­kl'ting Dt'partml'nt. 122 Hayt's Ht'aly. Sponsorl'd by Financt' Club. Frt'l'. 

•7 
-H p.m. -Workshop, "Job Offl'r Dl'c.:ision Making." Katt' Dasc..·l'nzo. Assistant Dirl'ctor. Cart"t'f & Plact'mt'nt St"rvicl'S. Carl'l'f & Placl'ml'nt Office.:. 

•7:50 
p.m.-Tuesday Night Film Series, "Bl'd and Board." Annl'nbt"rg Auditorium. 

•H 
p.m. -Lecture, "Industrial Chl'mkal Engint'l'r­ing." Jim Johnson. Proct"ss Division. lJOP. :)<;6 Fitzpatrick. 

•I 
0 p.m. -General Meeting, Colkgiatc.: Jazz Fl's­tival. Main Floor. LaFortunt'. 



©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

Doonesbury 
5tNIUDR GAm, A5 ya;KN(){U, WWY P[(Y'lC ff£l Ya/R lllJP IS 1Ht: MO!iTEXTfAOlPIN/Vt.YJ/1Nf£T 
i Ill TH& Hl!illF.YCFa:JN6I<E5S ! • ' I
:J ­
'0 
~J ·~~ 
~~I 
~· 
.. 
Z-11­
. TankMcNamara 
Garry Trudeau 
Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 


Bloom. Connty Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

1W. Me I fl£/.AX. I ... [ IM~ 7lJ Vl&ltllfff/5M FAa 1HI5/ IS 816 5rrJff 
WHfT /If((; WtrH 1Ift Pr/8{_/C 1/EY 60MUl Rt6HT NOW. I 61~ Me ?l 1HINK WE CAN 
\ Cl/Til 
\ 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 34 Cromwell 1 "-Goriot" 36 Makes boo-boos 5 Does a belly· 38 "If it were 
whopper done when­10 Grant done... " 14 Arabian letter 39 Takes umbrage 
41 Certain15 Oberon of worshiperfilms 43 Reference16 Felling tools work: abbr. 
17 Revelation 19 Gaiter 
44 Cartoonist 20 On the up-
Addams 21 Calming with 46 Louisiana drugs 
cookery 23 Phoenician 
47 Author Lagerlof city 
49 Mannerism25 Pinochle cards 
51 Hydrocarbons: 26 Mohammedan suff. 
judge 52 Hops dryer 29 Square pillar 54 Chronic 31 Spry failure 9 Fr. upper house56 Of the stars 58 Jockey Arcaro • 10 Sheath 
62 Put to flight 63 Revelation 65 Concerning 
66 Public spat 67 Vegetable 68 Contemporary 69 Armor part 70 Mex. laborer 
DOWN 1 Spotted cavy 2 N.C. college 3 Peel 
4 Gushing 5 Afternoons 6 School work 7 Cuban province 8 Trudge 11 Revelation 
12 Dizzy or Daffy 13 Superlative 
suflix 18 Roof ornament 22 Come-on 24-Vader 26 Centers 
27 Coeurd'­28 Revelation 30 Fr. painter 32 Kindof 
thread 33 -Park, Colo. 35 Box 
37 Cereal grains 40 Drain 42 Certain 
pendent 45 Consoles 

~L'  ''  I~SH GARDENS.  
Headquarters  
L  
c_:_ .:__:-::)  

Roses, carnations, spring bouquets, and arrangements 
' 
Best prices in South Bend! Today is the last day for Valentine's Day orders! 
OPEN 12:30-5:30 Mon -Sat 

48 Substance 59 Barrier to 50 Lawmakers control water 53 Credit 60 Jap. box 55 Shoe size 61 Actor Richard 56 Top-drawer 62 Van Winkle 57 Early Peruvian 64 Victory sign 
Monday's Solution 

r.............................................................................................-........-........... 
COLLEGIATE .JAZZ FESTIVAL 
General meeting for anyone interested in working for CJF 
Tuesday~Februaryl2 
tD:DDp.m. 

li..IIIIIIIIHIIIHIIII-11-11!!!..~1!:1~~~!~.~!!:~.~~~--HIHIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIHJ 

Tuesday, February 12, 1985-page 16 
S~orts 
' 
,, 

Irish fencers continue 
'., ­
.·. .... \ .~ 
drive for national title by winning five meets 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL the Ohio State men who were Sports Writer tough," said. DeCicco. Other sabre men for the Irish in-
I 
On what appears to be a drive for eluded sophomore Kevin not only a national championship Stoutemire who went 6-1 to go 12-3 but also an undefeated season, the on the year. Freshman Geoffrey Notre Dame men's fencing team Rossi went 4-0 ( 11·2) and junior took five dual meets over the Mike Bathon went 1·0 (1-2). 
weekend to extend its unbeaten In the foil, the Irish were very sue­
'The Obeerver/File Photo 
streak to 19 straight and go 15-0 for cessful, especially against sopho­
Senior jumper jim Patterson shattered Notre meet, individual performances provided some 
the year. more all-American Sunil Sabharwal 
Dame's indoor triple jump record this weekend at bright spots for the team. Nick Schrantz tlescrlbes 
Coach Mike DeCicco, in his 24th ofOhio State. 
the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet last weekend. the meet below. 
year at the helm for the Irish, wit-For the Irish, junior captain Mike 
While the Irish finish a disappointing third in the 
nessed his record improve to 446-Van der Velden was 9-1 to go 25-6 40 (.920) as the Irish were on the year. Sophomore Charles impressive in downing the host Higgs-Coulthard went untouched at team, Oakland, 25-2; Ohio State, 23-8-0 to keep his team leading record
ND runs disappointing third place 
4; Michigan-Dearborn, 22-5; Detroit, of 24-1 intact. Also undefeated were 25-2; and Chicago, 24-3. juniors Craig Funai (9-0, 15-6) and By NICK SCHRANTZ The weekend was by far the most Dave Reuter (7-0, 15-8). 
. Patterson continued to display his by placing fourth in the 1000-yard
Sports Writer dominated one for the Irish this far Funai continues to impress his
versatility by finishing in third place run in a time of2:16.80. 
into the season and augurs well for coach as he easily handledin the long jump with a leap of 24-1. While the middle distance and 
Despite some outstanding indi­distance men some fine future challenges. Sabhrawal (5-1 ) and helped the
provided
Prior to the meet, the Irish had a

vidual performances, the Notre "They (the Irish) looked very, team record against the talented
performances, the Irish sprinters
few problems with their middle dis­

Dame indoor track team finished a very good," said DeCicco. " They sophomore at 2-1. 
contributed with fine finishes in the
tance and distance men. However,

disappointing third out of ten teams fenced up a storm. As I had hoped, "Craig Funai in foil especially had
shorter events.
these runners turned it around on

at the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet the momentum of the team right a fantastic weekend," said DeCicco.
Robert Nobles placed fourth in
Friday and scored the most points

last Friday in Bloomington. now is such that they're on cloud "He won a bout against Sunil
the 600-yard run with a time of
for the Irish.

Indiana dominated the meet and nine. Some of the people that I was Sabhrawal from Ohio State. He beat
1: 12. 20, and then also finished
Tim Cannon captured second

amassed a first place total of 17I looking to get some nice results him 5-I and that was the best bout
fourth in the 440-yard dash with a
place in both the mile and two mile.

points. Purdue scored I07 points, from are really starting to come fenced all day in foil, sabre, or epee.
time of 49.86. Nobles continued his
The senior had a fine time of 4:12.04

and barely edged out the Irish, with through." That was a great win for us." 
fine day by participating on the Irish
in the mile, and turned in ~n impres­

102 points, for second place. All three squads for the Irish were In the epee, the Irish were at their
mile relay team that captured third 
As has been the case all year, the sive 9:05.37 clocking for the two outstanding according to DeCicco. usual best. Led by 9· 1 performances
place honors.
mile.

Irish jumpers led the way. Senior In the sabre, the Irish had all three. by senior captain Andy Quaroni (24­
Dan Shannon barely edged out
John McNelis raced to a 1:52.73

James Patterson captured the triple starters go untouched. Leading the 3) and junior transfer Christian
Nobles in the 600-yard run, to finish
time in the 880-yard run, which

jump with a leap of forty nine feet, way was senior captain Mike Janis Scherpe (23-5 ), the Irish easily
with a third place time of 1:12.15.
earned him second place honors.

seven and three-fourths inches, who went 7-0 to boost his record to downed their challengers.
Mitch Van Eyken sprinted to
His performance also moved him

which makes him the Notre Dame 21-2 on the year. Juniors Don Adding a great deal to the squad's
fourth in the 300-yacd run
into sixth place on the all-time Irish with a 
record holder for the indoor triple Johnson (8-0)andJohn Edwards (6-effort were untouched perfor·
time of 31.66, while Brandy Wells
list for the event.

jump. Notre Dame junior Gary 0) were also up to par as they mances by sophomore Tim Vaughan
wound up with a sixth place time of 
Lekander jumped forty five feet, Sophomore Jeff Van Wie contin­boosted their records to 18-5 and (7-0, 13-0) and junior Brian St. Clair
6.56 for the 60-yard dash. 
three and one-halfinches for second ued his comeback from an injury to I4-4, respectively, against some stiff ( I2-0, I6-4) from the third spot on
While the Irish were aided by
place, while Irish sophomore Joel capture second place in the 1000-competition. the starting lineup. At I3-0, St. Clair
many fine individual performances,
Autry completed the sweep with a yard run, with a time of 2:14.55. "In sabre, our three starters went third place jump of forty five feet, Freshman John Dadamio ran an­see TRACK, page 11 undefeated which was expected as see FENCERS, page J4 one and three-fourths inches. other fine race in his young career they had some close bouts against 
Notre Dame wrestlers try to crack NCAA top 20 
Former Indiana St. coach McCann looks to make ND national power 
-

ByJOE BRUNEITI success of future Irish squads. And McCann Spons Writer knows this. One of the big problems the two coaches will face will be trying to out-recruit 
Fran McCann wants it. And If you've ever traditional wrestling powerhouses like Iowa talked to McCann, you know that he is a very and Oklahoma State. determined person-especially when it comes "You're fighting a lot of tradition," says to wrestling.Just what does McCann want? He McCann. "But, I think that we can move faster wants to have the first-ever top 20 wrestling than your average school. How fast, and how team at Notre Dame, and he's going to get it. far? I don't know. There is a lot of luck in­
" I think that in three years we can be in the volved (in recruiting)." top 20 in the nation," says the first-year Irish McCann is looking at five or six recruits for mentor confidently. next year's squad, and the year after that he 
McCann isn't new at this game of creating plans on picking up two or three more. And wrestling powerhouses. Before coming to these aren't going to be your average recruits. Notre Dame this year, he compiled an impres-A coach like Fran McCann won't 'settle for sive 7'5-4 7-3 mark at Indiana State over eight average; he's going after the big boys, the blue­years, including top 20 rankings for his squad chippers. the last five years and a seventh place NCAA "We need back-to-hack top recruiting finish in 1982. With credentials like these its years," says McCann. "If we get five or six no wonder he is so well respected in the wres-quality kids next year, and two or three the tling com'!!u~ity. year after that'll be our foundation and then 
"Notre Dame is on the right track by getting we can go from there. McCann," comments Indiana wrestling coach "If we sign the kids we're looking at," con­Jim Humphreys. "He's a very fine coach. Fran tinues McCann, "then we're going to have one left one of the best teams in the country." ofthe top 10 recruiting classes in the nation." 
McCann didn't want to enter this conquest Obviously, McCann and Azevedo can't offer alone. So, he brought along assistant John a recruit the wrestling tradition of the Uni­
r he (JbscrverIFde Phoao 
Azevedo, an ex-Oiympian and NCAA cham-verstiy of Iowa, but they can offer a high Kids don't want to sit on the bench for two you don't then you have problems. We're pion. It obviously was a wise choice for a school wrestler the chance to step into a start­
years at Iowa, and that's to our advantage." going to the different an·as of the country that In the past Notre Dame's wrestling program are wrestling powers; places like Iowa, Newcounterpart. ing role. That chance plays heavily in the 
"John was an excellent choice and Is a good minds of many recruits. never tried to go after the same type ofathlete Jersn·. and lllino1s." assistant," praises Humphreys. "Those two "There is the opportunity of wrestle right that the Oklahoma States and Iowas go after. i'he recrumng game is not the only thing can do the job. They know enough about away and be pact ofa growing program," says that McCann must encounter on his road to
The coaches never attempted to go after the wrestling, and I think they can get the McCann. "We don't have the wrestling tradl­big boys, but McCann is changing that right the top 20. He also has to concentrate on pro­rccrultiung job done." tion, but we do have the tradition of Notre away. viding his wrestlers with a top 20 schedule, Indeed, the job McCann and Azevedo do Dame, the university. We have to impress "Every kid were looking at, other top recruiting is going to have a big bearingon the upon them those things about our program. schools are also looking at," McCann says. "If see WRESTLERS, page 13 





