
Jay Leno -page 7 


Senate disbandment referendum delayed: HPC to meet tonight 
By FRANK LIPO 
News Editor 
Astudent referendum concerning the possible:: disbandment of the Stu­dent Senate has been postponed one week, according to Maher Mouas­her, who handles constitutional af­fairs for Ombudsman. 
The referendum was scheduled for tomorrow. 
Aletter signed by presidents from nine halls calling for a special meeting of the Hall Presidents' Council tonight prompted the postponement. In the letter, delivered to The Observer last night, the presidents said that last week's vote, which approved an amend­ment to the constitution to disband the senate, was'"ta.ken In haste." 
The letter said, "Since we con­sider this issue of disbandment sig­nificant to student life, we feel we must reconsider our votes." 
"We're not saying people should say no to the disbandment. We're saying people should be more in­formed on the issue," said Glen Sgambati, Holy Cross Hall president. 
The ten signers of the letter com­prise one-third of the HPC. Accord­ing to HPC bylaws, that number is enough to call the special meeting. If a two-thirds quorum ( 17 of 25 mem­bers) attend the meeting tonight, the HPC can discuss the amend­ment. A majority of that quorum would have to vote to overturn last week's vote. 
"I think holding off a week is great. I'm not sure everyone knows what they're voting on," said Bill Healy, student body president and one of five sponsors of the amendment to disband the senate. 
"The key is misinformation," said Sgambati. In a vote before October break, the HPC voted by more than the necessary two-thirds majority to bring the disbandment issue before the student body in a referendum. 
In a second vote last week, the HPC proposed an amendment to the constitution to disband the senate. Sgambati said HPC Chairman Kevin Howard led the members ofthe HPC to believe the second vote was just an extension ofthe first vote and not the approval of the constitutional amendment. 
In effect, Sgambati said, the HPC did not know what it was voting on because the line-by-line changes to the constitution were not yet made at the time of the vote. He said the signers of the letter questioned the role the HPC would play in the ab­sence of the senate. 
"We have enough things going on in the hall . . . (The amendment) gives us a lot ofauthority and power that we didn't have," said Sgambati. "Hall presidems have a lot ofobliga­tions to their dorms ... More respon­
see DELAY, page 6 

November 3, 1985 
By votin~ last Tuesday, we, as members of the Hall Presidents' Council, proposed an amendment to the constitution to disband the Student Senate. We feel that this vote was taken in haste. We were intentionally misled as to the content and ramifications of'this amendment. Since we consider this issue of disbandment significant to student life, we feel that we must reconsider our votes. Therefore, we ·would like ~o call a special meeting of the HPC for ~onday, November 4, at 8:00p.m., in the conference room of 
Kt!enan Hall. 
PfYI 
Mark 


~sor 
Flanner Hall Co-Presidents 



f:f(rf1ytle
Cavanaugh Hall President 

~~ 
Glen S~ambati Holy Cross Hall President 
J3JJ~4_ 
Bi 11 -ls;;'iJe Keenan Hall President 
fA..-1//_ 
Chris I~ 
Zahm Hall President 
~~Ji~'Y­~l~:tent 
Thoms 



J. Lpi~
Pangborn Hall President 
ND student gov't starts newsletter 
By PATRICK CREADON 
StaffReporter 
Edt tor's note: Tbts article ts part one of a two-part series examin­Ing new Notre Dame campus publications. 
Notre Dame student govern­ment recently published the first of a new twice-per-semester newsletter titled We 'Ibe People to raise interest in student govern­ment and its activities, according to Chuck Beretz, editor-in-chief of the publication. 
"What we're actually doing is selling ourselves (student govern­ment)," Beretz said. 
Student Body President Bill lkaly "came to me at the begin­ning of the year with the idea of putting out a student government newsletter. His main rationale be­hind it was to make student government more accessible to the students," said Beretz. 
Beretz is also the press secretary for the Healy-lawrence ad­ministration. 
Several students, according to Beretz, questioned whether the newsletter was a result of much of the controversy now surrounding the llealy-lawrence administra­tion. 
"'Ibe fact that the newsletter came out at this time was a com­
; 

plete coincidence," he said. "It had Notre Dame's rates were the hig­nothing to do with the present hest, according to the report. conflicts in student government." Beretz noted that because the 
The staff of We The People con­sists mainly of Beretz and four reporters. All of the laying out of the paper is done by Beretz himself on his personal computer. The newsletter is distributed to each dorm by dorm representatives, ac­cording to Beretz. 


"Everyone who is involved with student government has. input to We The People," he said. "For in­stance, the article about Notre Dame's high phone rates for stu­dents started out as only a sugges­tion, but when we looked into it further, we found quite a story." 
That article reported that Notre Dame students pay nearly 300 per­cent more for their phone services than do students at Indiana Univer­sity. In all, six colleges were sur­veyed, and it was revealed that newsletter is a student govern­ment publication, the articles only will concern student government affairs. 
In the first issue of We The People, a personal letter from Healy and lawrence was inserted. The letter was Healy's idea in an ef­fort to clear up some ofthe present conflicts surrounding his ad­ministration and will not be a regular feature in issues to come, Beretz said. 
Money was set aside in the stu­dent government's budget for the ' newsletter, according to Beretz. 
"Although there is money set aside for the newsletter, we are probably going to sell advertising to outsiders. For now, however, we are only advertising student government activities," said Beretz. 
"I feel that this was a great idea by Bill (Healy)," Beretz said. "We really needed something like this for student government. 
"Before We The People, we didn't have anything that informed the students of our progress on a regular basis," he said. "Hopefully this publication will be carried on by student government ad­ministrations in the future." 
The next publication of We The People is tentatively scheduled for early December, Beretz said. 

'Real Beginning' ends: recall effort disbands 
ByTIIERESA GUARINO 
SaintMary's ExecutiveEditor 
Saying that with the force of stu­dent activism, "the current student government can be the effective leaders we need," the group of stu­dents organized to recall Student Body President Bill Healy formally abandoned their efforts to continue with the recall in a letter to The Ob­server yesterday. 
The students, with Bill Krais and Mike Vore as co-spokesmen, met with Healy Friday afternoon, to dis­cuss the reasons for the recall, ac­cording to Krais. 
"We had an open dialogue between the group and himself (Healy)," Krais said. "We expressed how we felt he had not represented the student body." 
The letter states that Healy and Student Body Vice President Duane lawrence had met with the student group to plan "effective means of protest" against recent administra­tion decisions dealing with the Dil­lon tailgater incident and parietals issues. 
"We told Bill we want to see him express the student outrage to the administration much better," said Krals. "He has promised us a change." 
"The (student government-sponsored) forum Wednesday was part of the signs that Bill was willing to listen and exchange ideas," said Anne Marie Finch, a member of the recall group. "We wanted him to state his position and we think he has." 
The group plans to keep, for two to four weeks, the 800 signatures they had gathered on petitions to hold the recall referendum. "We'll see If other people express an Inter­est in the recall and we'd turn them over," said Krais. 
The letter also states that If enough students contact the group, protesting the abandonment of the recall effort, the members would reconsider their position. "Eight­hundred people signed those peti­tions and if they still want it, we'd have a responsibility to them," Finch said. 
In the statement, group members state that "our fight will continue, al-. beit transformed," and urge students to contact them to "further voice legitimate student concern." 
"We feel that we've acheived what we set out to achieve," said Kra1s. "Our efforts had turned Into unintended consequences." 
The letter urges students to retain the Student Senate in the upcoming referendum, saying "it Is the only truly representative body com­prised solely of students that we have." 
To vote in favor ofdisbanding the senate "would be to vote away our voice In student government," the letter states. 

r 
I 
f 

The Observer Monday, November 4, 1985 -page 2 

Nineteen years of observingIn .. Brief the University and the College 
Three physics faculty members at Notre Dame have assumed editorial duties with a new international journal, Su­perlattices and Microstructures. John Dow, Freimann professor of physics, has been named editor-in-chiefofthe publication. Associate editors are Gerald Arnold and Kathie Newman,-assistant professors of physics. Superlattices and Microstructures is an interdisciplinary journal devoted to the science and technology of synthetic microstructures, microdevices, surfaces and interfaces. Included in the journal, published by Academic Press Inc., are original research papers and review articles. -The Observer 
More leading business executives took their un­dergraduate degrees at Notre Dame than at any other Catholic col­lege or university, according to a survey by the Financial & Economic Information Company of New York City. The study was based on Poor's Register, which contains data on approximately 70,000 presidents, vice presidents and directors of more than 40,000 U.S. corporations. When compared to other private univer­sities, Notre Dame's 641 undergraduate alumni in the survey ranked the University seventh in the nation, and when compared to all American institutions of higher learning, Notre Dame's ranking is 20th. When the survey was done three years ago, Notre Dame was first among Catholic institutions, 11th among private universities and 23rd among all U.S. colleges and universities.-The Observer 
Three Soviet students will talk about arms control with some of their U.S. counterparts during a visit to Ball State Uni­versity later this month. The Nov. 12 and 13 visit comes one week before the Geneva summit between President Ronald Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. The Soviet students, who will talk about arms control, nuclear weapons and U.S.-Soviet relations, are making a two-week tour of American universities. The Muncie ap­pearances are sponsored by Ball State's chapter ofUnited Campuses to Prevent Nuclear War. -AP 
Of Interest . _·" 
The Revised Edition of the Preliminary 1985-1986 Spring Semester Course Schedule Booklet is being reprinted be­cause oferrors which exist in the current version. This new edition will be distributed Wednesday afternoon. This new edition of the Course Schedule Booklet will be clearly marked as such (in color). All copies ofthe old edition should be destroyed. -The Observer 
A regional competitive art exhibition for 
graduate and undergraduate students will open Nov. 15 in the art galleries at Saint Mary's. Entries will be accepted until Nov. 7 from any student enrolled in a college or university within a 100-mile radius of South Bend. Up to three works may be entered, in the categories of painting, drawing, sculpture, printmaking, photog­raphy and fibers. Works must be original and there is a $5 entry fee per work. More information can be obtained from Giovanna Lenzi Sandusky at 284-4655. -The Observer 
Judicial Board coordinators need not pick up the materials relating to tomorrow's scheduled referendum. The referendum will be postponed one week. -The Observer 

Weather 

You know it's Monday when 
it's mostly cloudy with a high in the upper 40s and a 30-percent chance of rain. There's also a 30-percent chance ofrain tonight with a low in the mid 30s. Partly cloudy skies are expected tomorrow with a high near 50. But cheer up, in a month you'lllook back on this day and wish it were "nice and warm" again. -AP 


Design Editor...•......•....•. Mark McLaughlin Viewpoint Layout ............. Daniel SuUivan Design Assistant................... Beth Conway Features Copy Editor...............Tim Adams Typesetters ..•......•........•....•.............. Pat Clark Features Layout ....................... Larry Burke 
Bill Hlghduch~ck ND Day Editor.......................... Larry Burke News Editor...............................John Heasly SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Copy Editor ..............,....... Mark Pankowski AdDesign.................... Catherine Ramsd~n Sports Copy Editor......... Dennis Corrigan Sarah Wolohan VIewpoint Copy Editor...•... Cindy Rauck· Photographer.......................... Paul CifareUi 
horst Typist..............................Jodi Shellenbarger 
lb~ Observ~r (I'SPS S99 l-1000) is published Mond2y through Frid2y excepr during exam and vacation J>C'riods lb~ Observer is published by the students ofthe t·niversity o( Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( SlU per semester) hy writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 1M'i6. 
lbe Observer i• a member of lbe Associated Press. All reproduction righb are 
rcsr~·ed. 

Nineteen years ago yesterday, Notre Dame students sat down at lunch and opened The Observer -for the first time. 
"People were sort of stunned by it," said The Obser­
ver's premiere editor-in-chief, Robert Sam Anson, ofthe 
newpublication. "It was a whole different breed ofcat." 
The Obse~er drew its life from the corpse ofanother student publication, The Voice. In late October 1966 Steve Feldhaus, editor ofThe Voice, "metwith a handtui of key staffers, assessed the newspaper's manifold diseases, and decreed euthanasia," according to the first issue ofThe Observer. Feldhaus tossed away what many called the rag, but he didn't throw in the towel. 
"Because we killed the product didn't mean we were murdering the idea. There was a need for a news­oriented publication then, and there is now," Feldhaus wrote after The Voice went hoarse. Anson, who had been associate editor of Scholastic, decided to join Feldhaus' venture as co-editor-in-chiefofThe Observer. It was agreed that Feldhaus would retain financial con­trol while Anson assumed responsibility for news con­tent, design and personnel. 
Not only did The Obser­ver take its name from the National Observer, but it also borrowed its logo. Notre Dame's newspaper did not have anyone to design its own masthead and Anson always had admired that of the professional jour­nal. 
In its first issue The Ob­server dedicated itself to do just what its name proclaimed, "observe, remark, notice, comment and adhere." As Anson wrote in 1975, the newspaper did more than just print accounts of the latest good deeds of the Fightin' Irish and the Blue Circle. It editorialized against the Vietnam war and raised the demand that students be given a meaningful voice in the University's affairs. "We took special delight in going after sacred cows," Anson wrote in reflection. 
These sacred cows ranged from Gen. William Westmoreland to Dr. Tom Dooley. The Observer broke the news that the senior class had voted to name Westmoreland "Patriot of the Year." In the same issue was an editorial denouncing this choice along with the basic concept ofsuch an award. In another issue Obser­ver editors suggested that Dooley might be in th~ grip of the Central Intelligence Agency. The headline read, "An Ugly American After All?" 
Anson described his publication as outspoken with a definite political slant...It was different and I think the 
***************************************************** 
:: · Looking for Something Different in Electives for Next Semester? : 
* * 
* * 
: Consider STV! * : 
* * 
*
! •Notre Dame's new Program in Science, Technology, and values * .
* 338 O'Shaugnessy Hall -Spring Course Descriptions are now Available : 
**************************************************** 

ATTENTION All SOPHOMORES 
interested in the 1986-1987 

Arts and Letters London Program 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 

TONIGHT 
7:30P.M. LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
Application procedures will be explained 
and applications for the 1986-1987 London 
Program will be distributed at this meeting. 
Applications will also be available in the 
London Office, 133 o•shaughnessy, until 
Friday, November 8, 1985. 
Sarah Hamilton 
Editor-in.Chief 
ll.niv.-rsitv o.·c:ded a breath nf fre~h ~;,." h,. "aid. The former editor acknowledged there also WdS an element of the crude in his paper. 
In one incident this unrefined element almost got An­son .11HI Feldhaus J,." .,~d from rhc l.11iversity. In Oeu:m!Jcr 1966 The Observer n :·hnte•l an article from the Barb, an underground paper at Berkeley. The article was a report ofthe United Sexual Rights Commit­tee's attempt to abolish a law which prohibited nude/ parties in the Los Angeles area. One of the committee members was quoted stating the joys of watching ot­
hers make love. He used a five letter synonym, which in another context can be found on the shelf of a hardware store. 
Less than amused, Father Hesburgh called the article "the most irresponsible act in the history of Notre Dame," according to Anson and Feldhaus. The Univer­sity president considered dismissing the two but in­stead accepted a formal apology presented to every Notre Dame student 
The Observer somehow survived those wild, crusad­ing days of the 60s as well as 
11·'1 nearly two decades of 

change. The newspaper's two new mastheads since Anson's first "borrowed" logo are insignificant alterations·when compared to other areas ofgrowth. 
Since 1966 the newspaper has grown from a weekly to a daily and the average issue has increased from 12 to l 6 pages. Today more than 100 students from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's comprise The Observer staff. Together these people work to present the issues and events of both campuses fairly and accurately and to provide a forum for the free expression ofideas. 
Considering all of the improvement, I'd like to think that a more efficient distribution system is the reason why fewer people wait outside The Observer office for each day's paper today than in 1966. 
DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIR 
The Observer Monday, November 4, 1985 -page 3 





USA Today publisher Black heads 'fastest growing paper' 
By ANN KALTENBACH 
Copy Editor 
Cathleen Black, publisher of USA Today, told a forum at Saint Mary's Friday afternoon the publication, once "ridiculed" by skeptics, is now the nation's fa..~test growing new newspaper. 
"We sell I,400,000 copies per day," Black said, adding that ap­proximately 90 percent of the country is covered by USA Today. 
Black. the first female executive­in-residence at Saint Mary's, spoke at a luncheon of the College's Business Associates and lectured in an ad­vertising cla..'is. 
Speaking at a forum in Stapleton Lounge, Black explained the newspaper's struggle for success. 
"We were ridiculed by more skep­tics than you can imagine," she said. "Three years ago, people didn't think liSA Today had a chance of making it." 
Black said the press was USA Today's worst critic. Moreover, she said, the paper was dubbed "The McPaper ofJournalism," referring to McDonald's brand offast food versus USA Today's brand of news stories. 
Defending the paper from such criticism, Black highlighted the credibility of the Gannett Co., Inc., the parent company of USA Today. She said Gannett is a nationwide in­formation company which publishes 87 daily newspapers, in­cluding USA Today and 38 non­dailies. It operates six television and 14 radio stations and the largest out­door advertising company in North America. 
She said Gannett also offers marketing, news, television produc­tion, research and satellite informa­tion services. 
Black also spoke of Gannett's strides in other areas. 
"Gannett is the number one com­pany in affirmative action and equal opportunity. Gannett has felt firmly for affirmative action for a long time," Black said. 
Supporting this statement, she said Gannett employs 29,000 per­sons, 43 percent of whom are women. She added those statistics are "practically unheard of in any company today." 
Black joined USA Today from a position as first woman publisher of a weekly consumer magazine, New York, which she helped turn around to a highly profitable publication. A graduate ofTrinity College, a private women's college in Washington D.C., she previously served as as­sociate publisher of Ms. magazine. 
She sits on the Gannett Manage­ment Committee and recently was chosen as an insider of the Gannett Board of Directors. 

Discussing women in manage­ment positions, she said, "I believe managers are not born. Managers learn as we move along." 
Quoting former congresswoman Geraldine Ferraro, she added,"Men assume office with the assumption 

Cathleen Black 

of success. Women assume office with the burden ofproof." 
"I have a lot of self-confidence," Black said, adding, "It's impossible to move forward ... without think­ing ofyourselfas a winner." 
Black said, although she's "not driven like Lee Iacocca," good judgement in management is impor­tant. Black added she likes being a manager and the sense of authority she can assume from it. 
Nevertheless, the publisher said, "I have been in the hot spot and in the limelight. Much of the press coverage about me and USA Today has been very positive." 
On another note, Black discussed USA Today's strategies for profitability, including advertising revenue and cost control. 
"The cost has been staggering for USA Today. In the first two years, money was spent to accomplish the job. Cost control in the next three to five years wih be much more strin­gent," she said. 
A four-color advertising page, when the newspaper was launched, cost a few thousand dollars, she said. Today, it has soared to S33,46I. 
"We will be aggressive in page cost in the coming years," said Black. 
As of Nov. I, advertising prices were increased seven percent while circulation was increased I00,000. Another advertising increase of 9.8 percent will be implemented March I, Black said. 
"We must be aggressive in' pricing to achieve profitability," Black added. 
Black noted that the price per issue, originally 25 cents, recently was hiked from 35 cents to 50 cents. 
"We have led the charge for the newspaper industry. We saw no fal­loff (of readership) between the 35 cent to 50 cent increase," she said. 
This showed the USA Today's  
"readers are hooked," Black added.  
The wide circulation of USA  
Today constitutes much of its  
success, according to Black. The  
newspaper is printed in 30 cities  
around the United States and is sold  
in 113,000 vending machines  
around the country, which Black  
amusingly referred to a..~ "those won­derful blue and white machines that  I_,  
have graced the landscape of  ~  
America."  ~  
Black said the International  '  
Herald Tribune, the liSA Today world edition, is selling 20,000  1 1  
copies per day in thirty countries  
after only I 7 months of business in  
this sector. This newspaper, accord­ 
ing to Black, is rivaling the Wall  
Street Journal Europe which sells  
28,000 copies p,er day.  
"For Americans overseas," Black  
said "we are the exact right read."  
USA Today hit the presses three  
years ago with the ambition of be­ 
coming the nation's only national in­ 
terest daily newspaper. It is known  
for its heavy dose of entertainment  
and human interest stories, two  
pages of state-by-state news briefs  
and its sports section geared to  
television.  
Black told an advertising class at  
Saint Mary's that because of the  
newspaper's color and brevity, "We  
are geared to the TV generation."  


Founder of Tenn. 'former prisoner' program visits ND 
ByJOE MARKEY 
News Staff 
Father jack Ulckey, the founder of a Na.~hville, Tenn. prisoner relea..~e program, was on campus last week to discuss the possibility ofcreating a similar program at Notre Dame. 
Hickey's program, called Dismas House, has students and community volunteers help former prisoners readjust to society. 
Hickey first saw the need for such a program while serving as chaplain at Vanderbilt University in Nashville. 
Through a community outreach program for prisoners which Hickey had coordinated with some Vander­bilt students, he noticed prisoners being released with no place to go. 
"Any stable relationships which the prisoner may have once had are lost while he is in prison ... he is released into a cold community where he is treated a..~ an outcast," said Hickey. 
In order to satisfy the needs of released prisoners, Hickey asked active students ofhis group to form a "collective." Eleven students volun­teered to share a house, under the

r---------_;__--------------------, p;;.~;;.;,;;~;;.;..;....;.;;;.;;.;..__.:....;..-__~-...----..:;;,----...,.-...-, Hickey, adding, "By choosing a 
Get With The Marketing Program That Puts You To Work. 

Only the University of Georgia offers a Brand Management Masters program that puts you in the workplace before you graduate. After nine months of intensive course work, you'll work as a salaried intern for a company like Coca-Cola, Scott Paper, Frito-Lay or McCann-Erickson. And you'll have the preparation you need to perform well during your internship, because we developed the curriculum in cooperation with our Board of Advisors, all leaders in the marketing industry. 
No other program offers you thf! opportunity to tum specialized training into a workmg knowledge of brand management. And that's what will give you the edge in today's highly competitive job market. 
L1x>k into the Masters of Brand Management Program at the University of Georgia. it could be the smartest business decision you'll ever make. Scholarships of $6,000 are available to qualified applicants. 
Thr Univ~r!'lity of G~orgia IJrand Management Pt-ogram 
ProluHor Fr~d D. Reynold• I·'H JlrookH flail 
UniverNity or Heorgia 
Ath•nH. GA :10602 


!lear Sir: l'l•ase send me complete infonnation on your Masters of Brand Management Program. 
Name----------------------~-----------------------------­
Addre••-----------------------------------------Apt 11----CitY----------------------------------------------------­Stat•----------------------------------Zip_______________ 
Day l'hon•----------------------------------------------­
~------------------------------------------------~ 
direction of· Hickey and another 
· Dominican priest, with former prisoners who were trying to read­just to society. The name "Dismas House" was chosen because it was the name of the good thief crucified alongside Christ, Hickey said. 
Hickey emphasized the humanity of the prisoner saying that after release he should be called a former prisoner rather than an ex-convict. "Former prisoner" suggests im­prisonment while "ex-convict" connotes the offense, Hickey said. 

Whom do v.ou call 
to make. 


Monday spec1al? 
DOMINO'S PIZZA® 
...for our $7.99 Monday special. 
One call to DOMINO'S PIZZA"' gets you our Monday special­a 16-lnch, single topping pizza for just $7.99.lt's·a great way to get together with three other students and enjoy a hot, custom-made pizza for about $2 each~ 
And Domino's Pizza Delivers·•· 
Free. In 30 minutes or less, or 
you get $3 off your order. 
So make the call that makes . Monday special. Call Domino's 
Pizza'' lor our $7.99 Monday 
special, available all evening 
every Monday. 
Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. No coupon necessary Just request the Monday spectal 
•t6-lnch pizza generally serves 3·5 people L!mlled delivery •rea.;:. 1985 DOminos Ptzza. Inc 

"A criminal is not just a criminal, but usually only a poverty-stricken person with inadequate resourses ­no education, no skills, no family, no friends," said Hickey. 
In prison, where crime is the so­cia! norm, the person's character Is impoverished instead of rehabllitated and his freedom and sense of responsibility are taken away, according to Hickey. 
"Lack of freedom is the lack of freedom to choose good over evil," said Hickey. 
Upon release the prisoner is in­capable of seeking alternatives and 
Call us: 277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center South Bend 

Of(lcofl r· 
(JoeA it;;J. 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 

DELIVERS® FREE. 

can only live from day to to day, Hickey said. 
Dismas House seeks to help former prisoners utlllze their freedom in order to discover ai­ternatives and to give them con­fidence in relationships, according to Hickey. 
"At first they are suspicious be­cause they have never been able to trust anyone, and they think that Dis-mis House is trying to exploit them somehow," Hickey said. 
"Once they realize Dismas House is sincere, they feel happiness and see that life is not a downer," said 
._______________________________.center for Social Concerns. 
creative lifestyle, we really can affect 
things." 
The role of the student in Dlsmas 

House is two-fold, he said. While the 
students serve as role models, they 
receive a rich learning experience as 
well because most students have 
been isolated from different types of 
people. 
"It's a pretty normal place for the 

students;" he said. "We're not 
looking for a student with a mission­
ary or counselor attitude -just a nor­
mal person." 
The atmosphere at Dismas House 

is safe and non-violent, he said, ad­
ding that the two basic rules are "no 
violence and no threats ofviolence." 
Eight students live in the house 

with eight former prisoners. Stu­.dents pay rent, which covers three­fourths of the operating budget, and do chores. There are volunteer 
cooks, he said. 
The head of the house holds three 

intensive interviews with the 
prisoner seeking admittance into 
Dismas House. Once a former 
prisoner is accepted into Dismas 
House, he gets a job within an 
average of ten working days, Hickey 
said. 
Hickey said that although some 

people do not fully understand the 
situation and tend to remain ig­
norant, "most are glad to sec some­
thing accomplished." 
Similar programs are beingstarted at the Universty of Vermont, Trinity College, and Saint Michael's College, he said. 
Director of Community Relations James Roemer has been appointed to head the planning of this project at Notre Dame. 
Anyone interested in being in­volved in Dismas House of South Bend may attend an informational meeting Nov. 18 at 7 p.m. at the 


. I 
, 
r 
r r r 
'r 
-~--~---~-----------­
-

The Observer Monday, November 4, 1985 -page 4 



Outlaws ambush police in Mexico 
Associated Press  federal officers. The statement did  marijuana and was fired on by an un­ 
not  specify how the details  were  known number of drug traffickers  
MEXICO CI1Y  -Drug traffickers  pieced together from Cahuapan, a  who were waiting in hiding.  
in  remote  southern  Mexico  am- village of 200 families located ap­ Some of the officers were killed  
bushed  and  killed  21  policemen  proximately  90  minutes  by  boat  immediately, the Veracruz govern­ 
who had found a marijuana cache,  along a river from the nearest large  ment statement said. It said others  
torturing some ofthe officers before  town.  were captured and, with their hands  
shooting  them,  Mexican  officials  ~  A spokesman  for  the  Veracruz  bound  behind  their  back,  were  
said Saturday night.  government, Anuro Reyes lsidoro,  taken to a nearby ranch where they  
The army sent soldiers  to  take  told The Associated Press, however,  were tortured and shot.  
·charge ofthe site, a settlement in the  that two agents had escaped during  All  of  the  bodies  later  were  
mountains  along  the  border bet- the  ambush  and  contacted  aut­ dumped in the village of Cahuapan,  
ween  the  states  of Veracruz and  horities at about 9 a.m. Saturday.  the statement said.  
Oaxaca, the Veracruz state govern- According  to  the  Veracruz  Officials did not know ifany ofthe  
ment said in a release from its press  government account, the agents of  police had fired back at the attackers  
office.  the Federal Judicial Police and the  or had wounded  or  killed any of  
Mexican Attorney General Sergio  Veracruz state police were patroll­ them, the stateme!lt said.  
Garcia Ramirez and Veracruz Gov.  ing the  area  for marijuana planta­ Mexican drug agents have said  
Agustin  Acosta  Lagunes  were  tions  as  pan  of  the  federal  that most of the country's marijuana  
meeting  in  the  state  capital  of  anti-narcotics campaign, and came  crop, estimated at 700 tons a year, Is  
Veracruz to oversee  the investiga­ upon a load of marijuana that ap­ grown in the mountains along the  
tion.  peared ready for shipment.  Veracruz-Oaxaca border. Most of it  
The Veracruz government state- The group returned to the site  is shipped eventually to the United  
ment said all 21 killed were state and  before dawn Friday to collect the  States, they say.  
approximately 200 pounds of ments operating around the clock in 



Shuttle carries on despite leak, fire 
A88odatcd Press Officials said Challenger carries 12-hour shifts daily to keep experi­
SPACE CENTER, HOUSTON -An surplus oxygen, enough to the Spacelab module. air leak traced to a furnace and a loss overcome any loss from the small Officials in West Germany, which of communications caused by a fire leak. is paying NASA 164 million to fly the on the ground plagued the interna­While Mission Control was check­76 spacelab experiments, were tional crew of the space shuttle ing the problem, a communications quoted by an interpreter as saying, Challenger on Saturday, but officials ground station at White Sands, N.M., "All the experiment systems are said there was no threat to the suddenly lost contact with the working perfectly. The astronauts astronauts or to their science mis­spacecraft. are performing very well." sion. Bourgois said later that a small fire P.R. Sahm, one of the West Ger­
Space agency officials said the leak at the White Sands center knocked man project directors, said he feels caused the flow of oxygen and out power to two computers that "we may have been too ambitious in nitrogen gas from supply tanks to keep Mission Control in contact planning the experiments for this more than triple for a short time, and with a satellite that normally relays mission." forced the astronauts to search for communications between the "There may be too many experi­the source ofthe atmosphere loss. ground and shuttles. ments," Sahm said at a news con­
Flight director Larry Bourgois said Power was restored to one of the ference at the science control the problem was believed to be in a computers and communications center near Munich, West Germany. vent in one offive furnaces used to resumed after approximately two "Our colleagues in space are over­melt metals and glasses in the hours. worked and overburdened ... They laboratory carried in Challenger's Challenger's crew of eight, the and the experimenters need more cargo bay. largest ever, were working in two time to think." 
...i7 ADULTCHILDRENOF (.,~ ALCOHOLIC PARENTS ~ aad otllera concel'lled aboutpeople IIIIth drfnlring problema 
5:45 -6:45 pm Counseling & Psychological Services Center Room 316 
Does someone significant to you have a drinking problem? Does It affect you? Maybe we can help 
Call239-5085 and ask {or Peggy or Michael 





r-------------------,
Bring In This Coupon And Save 

I I I 
Soft Contact Lenses 
Daily Wear $49.50 
Includes B&l, DuraSott, CIBA and American Hydron 
Extended Wear $79.50 
Includes B&l. AO Softcon 
Tinted $89.50 
Spherical Dally Wear 
Includes B&L. CIBA and CTL 
Chem-care kits are included at no extra cost. Other brands, torics, bifocals and specialty lenses available at nominally higher cost. Coupon and student/faculty identification must be presented at time of order. No other discounts apply. 
South Bend, Scottsdale Mall 291-2222 Elkhart Concord Mall 875-7472 
Otflcn throupout lndlona 
[;25J Open All Day Saturday and Sunday Mall Hours 
~ PROFESSIONAL EYE EXAMINATION AVAILABLE BY ~ OPTOMETRIST WITH OFFICE ON PREMISES 
~~------------------~ 

Monday, November 4, 1985 -page 5
The Observer 
Looking for 
Come Work With UsI 
Thanks toyou...

something 
The Observer is looking for evening product­
it works ... 
to fill ion workers right now. No experience is necessary. 
forALLOFUS 
Learn Valuable layout skills and have fun too! 

those long 
• UniRdW..,
For more information, contact John Mennell at 
dull evenings? 239-5303 or stop by 4th floor LaFortune. 
1 
1 
1 
-
1 
, ~ 
1 




tve us our. 
We'll give you the "'ay to higher grades and more free time. 
Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics works-over 2
Would you like to: million people, including students, executives,
r/ Raise your grade point average without long 
senators, and even U.S. presidents have proven it.
hours over texts. 
A free l hour demonstration will ~End all-night cramming sessions. 
show you how to save· hundreds of € Breeze through all your studying in as little as hours of drudgery this school year, 113 the time. and to increase your reading effec­tiveness immediately.
~ Have more free time to enjoy yourself. 
~Read 3 to 10 times faster, with better It only takes an hour, and it's free. Attend today. concentration, understanding, and recall. 
EVELYN WOOD 
READING DYNAMICS will open your eyes. 
Schedule of Free Introductory Lessons 
()ttt.Y 1"~~eilse 
1\'eel& SJiee, ~o,~ .11
011

'(Itis 


IIJe :!'"'"II 
LOCATION: CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION Pot! ldirectly across from Morris lnnJ 
on Notre Dame Avenue Con.campusJ Room 230 
MON. NOV. 4 12:30 PM, 2:00 PM & 4:00 PM 
TUES. NOV. 5 12:00 PM, 2:00 PM. 4:00 PM & 6:00 PM 
Choose the day and time most convenient for you. Reservations are not necessary. For further information, please call 1-(800) 447 -READ 
~--~~---­
The Observer 
Monday, November 4, 1985 -page 6 

Observer promotions 
The Observer has announced the 
following promotions: 
Frank lipo, a junior American 
Studies and history major from High­
land Park, Ill., will serve on the 
editorial board as news editor. He 
was formerly the copy chief. 
A junior government major from 
Beech Grove, Ind., Doug Hasler has 
·been appointed day chief. He is a 
former day editor. 
Mark Pankowski, a former copy 
editor, has been promoted to assis­
tant news editor. He is a sophomore 
American studies major from Tal­
lahassee, Fla. 
Ann Kaltenbach, from Quincy, Ill., 
has been selected as a copy editor. 
She is a junior government and com­
munications major. 
Sue Dunbar, a senior from 
Chicago, Ill., has been selected as a 
new Viewpoint copy editor. 
Larry Burke, a junior American 
studies major from Nutley, N.J., has 
been selected as a day editor. He is . also an assistant sports editor. 
The following reporters have 
been promoted to the position of 
senior staffreporter: 
Ellyn Mastako, a senior history 
and speech communications major, 
is a former a staff reporter. She is 
from Akron, Ohio. 
Frank Mastro, a sophomore from Princeton Junction, N.J., also is a former staffreporter. 
The following reporters have been promoted to the position of staffreporter: 
Rae Ann Barger, a freshman from Middletown, Ohio, Candice Becker, a sophomore from Tell City, Ind., Mary Berger, a freshman from Den­ver, Colo., jacqui Brummel, a fresh­man from Wasco, Ill., Christine Caponigri, a freshman from Cicero, Ill., Pat Creadon, a freshman from Riverside, UL, Laura Gronek, a sop­homore from Chicago, Ill., Sue Harsch, a sophomore from Clarence, N.Y., lisa Marie Hell, a freshman from St. joseph, Mich., Eileen Het­terich, a sophomore from Rochester, N.Y., Kathleen Zassick, a freshman from Parma, Ohio., Mike lisa, a sophomore from. Cherry Hill, N.J., Joe Markey, a freshman from Springfield, Mass., Tracy McCloskey, a sophomore from East Lansing, Mich., Santiago O'Donnell, a junior from South Bend, Julie Palamaro, a sophomore from St. joseph, Mich., Peggy Prosser, a junior from Youngstown, Ohio, Robert Raphael, a freshman from Fairfax, Va., Mary Reynolds, a junior from Edina, Minn., Ted Spinelli, a sophomore from Berwyn, Penn., and Greg Stohr, a freshman from Warson Woods, Mo. 

Sharp singers ~ 
The Notre Dame Glee Club sang a variety of tunes, including thefight song, a Gregorian chant, and the alma mater at Washington Hall Friday night for two packed ho__uses. The Glee Club, just 
~ Obo<orver/Paul Pahoreslcy 

returning from a 12-day tour of Canada and the northeastern United States, donned their tuxedos and performed in front of alumni, students and parents. 



U.S. proposes ceiling on strategic bombers and missiles 
Aseoclated Press 
HELSINKI, Finland -The United States has proposed a ceiling on American and Soviet strategic bom­bers-and a freeze on nuclear missiles in Europe as part of a new arms con­trol accord with Moscow, a senior 
U.S. official said yesterday. 
Other key elements of the package now before Soviet negotiators in Geneva include a ceiling of 3,000 on long-range nuclear warheads and no limits on submarine-launched cruise missiles. 
The official, who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity, said there is "compromise" in President Reagan's proposal to overcome what he described as "hookers" -snags -in 

Delay 
continuedfrom page 1 
sibilities would make me an 
ineffective hall president," he said. 
"I understand what they are doing," said Howard. "They want to understand what the role ofthe HPC will be. That is their right." 
Under the proposed amendment, the HPC shall advance the position of the student body-on issues con­cerning student life, approve all cabinet appointments, approve ap­pointments made by the Student Ac­tivities Board Steering Committee, and bring bills of impeachment against various elected and ap­pointed officials. 
"Discussion (of campus-wide issues) will move to the HPC," said Mouasher. 
Also under the amendment, the Campus Life Council would determine who would represent the student body at Board of Trustees meetings, the budget committee would handle fiscal work as an in­dependent committee with a slightly changed composition, Obud would handle elections by its own authority with appeals to the HPC, and the judicial coordinator would select the faculty and administration members of the judicial review board. The judicial review board handles appeals in disciplinary procedures. 
The CLC retains final approval of legislative actions tinder the amend­ment. 
the plan Soviet leader Mikhail Gor­bachev submitted five weeks ago. 
For instance, the ceiling of 3,000 on intercontinental ballistic missile warheads is 500 higher than the ini­tial U.S. position in the Geneva negotiations. It would allow the Soviets to retain more of their land­based missile arsenal, the heart of Soviet nuclear strength. 
Gorbachev called for a 3,600­warhead limit on strategic ground missiles, bombers and nuclear sub­marines. 
The U.S. official said that if the Soviets accepted the American package deal, there would be no mobile Soviet strategic missiles or any new heavy intercontinental bal­listie missiles added to the super­powers' arsenals. 
This would presumably prompt the United States, in return, to scuttle the single-warhead Midget Man, which has stirred complaints by some members of Congress. The Soviet SS-24 missile and SS-25 mobile missile are much more ad­vanced than the Midget Man; which is still on the drawing broad. 
But the outlook for an early agree­ment appears dim. Secretary ofState George Shultz, who is expected to discuss prospects for an accord during two days of talks in Moscow beginning today, told reporters the two sides remain "quite a distance apart." 
The main stumbling block is a Soviet demand for a "total ban" on all arms in space. The senior official said Moscow's definition encom­"passes all U.S. attempts "to counter 
if!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!ftl 
THE  Preparation  
M.B.A.  and Planning  
DECISION  for the Notre Dame  
Undergrad.  

Featuring: Dean Robert J. Waddick Monday, November 4th, 7:30pm 122 Hayes-Healy Auditorium Sponsored By: The Notre Dame Arts and letters Business Society 
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil 
objects in space." It is aimed at stop· ping Reagan's Strategic Defense In· itiative, which envisages using futuristic technology in space to in­tercept and destroy_ attacking missiles. 
After a rest stop here, Shultz leaves for Moscow this morning to discuss preparations for the Nov. 19­20 Reagan-Gorbachev summit meeting with Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and Gorbac­hev. 
Shultz made a courtesy call yester· day on President Mauno Koivisto and Foreign Minister Paavo Vayrynen. Finland is neutral in East· West disputes. 
The ceiling on heavy bombers proposed by Reagan is 350, the offi­cia! said. They could carry up to 
1.500 air-launched cruise missiles. 
By U.S. count. the Soviets now have .3 "7'; Backfires, Bisons and Bears. The United States has 263 B-S2s. 
Gorbachev's call for a total of 
6.000 nuclear "charges" lumped bombers in with all kinds of nuclear weapons, from potent globe­girdling missiles to mines. 
American and Soviet intermediate-range missiles in Europe, meanwhile, would be frozen at 140 under the U.S. proposal. This would require a reduction of 103 Soviet SS-20 missiles and no reductions by the United States in the Pershing 2 and cruise missiles.deployed among NATO allies. 
The United States, however, would not build up to the 572 total approved by NATO by 1988. 

: THE SAB PRESENTS : 

~ HOTDOG~ 

•
The Movie 
• 
•• Monday, November 4 Proceeds go to •• • 7 9 11 UNITED WAY •
• , , , pm s •
• hirts and painter's • • Engineering Auditorium. hats given out. • 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~(************************ 
I 

THE SAB PRESENTS 

EUROPE 
James Bond 007 in 

Fall-Winter 


FROM RUSSIA 
Call for Lowest Rate and Assistance 

WITH LOVE 
Seven Seas Travel 
Tuesday, November 5 Proceds go to UNITED WAY

7, 9:15, 11:30 pm 
Shirts and Painter's 

525N•.Michigan 232-7995 Engineering Auditorium hats given out. 



Accent 

Monday, November 4, 1985-page 7 
Comedian Jay Leno shows who's the boss 
humor can be seen in his observa­In response to a communications tions of fast-food restaurants. "Ever major in the audience, he said, "So,
Concerts-==d 
notice how those restaurants use what does that involve? Learning sexual connotations to sell their how to dial a push-button phone?"
~W?" food? Yeah, you've got to wonder Despite Leno's chiding, the what you're getting when you order audience gave him an encore, a 'Wendy's hot and juicy' or a 'Big during which he discussed his 
S 
CATHERINE COFFEY jack' from jack-In-The-Box." wife's cat. "I hate cats," said Leno. assistantfeatures editor Leno also pointed out that 7-11 My wife's won't eat anything except stores have $10,000 worth of Friskies Buffet. I don't mind the aturday night, Stepan Center. cameras watching S20 worth of friskies, but the buffet ... I mean lie appears on stage attired in Twinkles. "At 7-11 ," Leno said, you've got to set up the tables and bl;u:k pant..~. blue shirt, tie, and "they really care about their cus­get out all the serving spoons. And yellow jacket with the sleeves tomers. In fact, they care so much those tall, white hats. I hate wearing rolled up. that their handicapped parking is those tall, white hats." 
"Ho, hoooo, hooooo," the man across the street." says as he tries to quiet the applaud· Leno took time to explain the Most people would think he ingcrowd. major difference between men and could hire someone to feed his cat, 
·n1e man is jay Leno, comedian women. "All men like the Three considering the ticket price for the and frequent guest on "Late Night Stooges, and all women think show was $12.50. Yet the show was With David Letterman." they're idiots. I mean, you ask a guy well worth the money. Leno's style 
His thoughts on comedy? to name the three men he admires is similar to such reputable com­the most, and he'll say, 'Abraham edians as Steve Martin and johnny Uncoln, Albert Einstein, and Moe,' " Carson, and his material is easy to 
As Leno Leno said. relate to. Leno concentrates on In the course of the evening, subjects that appeal to a widenoticed the Leno had the opportunity to poke variety ofpeople, usually comment­fun at some of the different areas of ing on everyday trivialities.unique ceiling study on campus. "Oh, so you took Leno lived up to his reputation as courses in literature, philosophy, "the Bruce Springsteen ofCom­of Stepan language ... " Leno says, pretending edy," delivering a two-hour perfor­he's reading a resume. "Ummm, you mance. And what a two hours itCenter, he can take cab number 7." was. 
remarked, 
"Nice ceiling 
you've got 
here. Looks 
like the inside 
of a giant Jiffy 
Pop." 
"I think David Letterman and I share the same philosophy of humor. We both like to use words effectively. If you can dress up a sentence with colorful metaphors, then I think it makes it that much more interesting for people to hear, plus it makes it that much more funny." 
Leno uses no props, relying in­stead on gestures and his wit. As he noticed the unique ceiling ofStepan Center, he remarked, "Nice ceiling you've got here. Looks like the inside of a giant jiffy Pop." 
More examples of Leno's sense of 
The Observer /Paul Pahoresky 
1

Spirits soar in ACC with , 1 1 Christian singer Amy Grant ~ ,1 
"You're going to hear a lot of cert, she performed a big band-type 
songs from an album called Un­tune called "Fat Girl." complete guarded," she told the audience. In with a bubble machine. keeping with her word, she then Throughout the concert, Grant's
~W?" broke into an upbeat rendition of enthusiasm kept the energy level "Love ofAnother Kind," the high inside the ACC. As she per­opening song on that album. formed, she moved to the music 
A 
MARY REYNOLDS Grant proceeded to bring the with her unique knee-up dancing, features writer audience to its feet with "Wise Up" which is faintly reminiscent of an and "Sharayah." A highlight of the Indian war dance. s ghosts took to the streets concert was her performance of the ·~ursday night, spirits of anot­mystical "El Shaddei." As the concert drew to an end, her kind filled the ACC as Christian-Midway through the concert, she she said, "There are a lot ofgreat rock singer Amy Grant shook the yielded the stage to guitarist Gary things in life to celebrate, and I'll crowd with her uplifting message. Chapman, who performed one of tell you one," and then she broke "I want you to know that God is his own songs. Backup singers Kim into the powerful "Emmanuel." She God," she told the audience, which Fleming, Renee Garcia, and Donna ended the concert with "Straight ranged from high school students to McElroy next rocked the audience Ahead" as the crowd clapped and families with small children. with a song of their own. cheered. 
Christian singer Bob Bennet After returning to the stage, The popular opinion might be opened the show with songs from Grant told the audience, "While that God and good music are his album, Non-Fiction. Accom­we're young, let's love hard and do mutually exclusive entitles, but panying himselfon guitar, Bennet all the things we won't be able to do Grant proved this wrong as she started the audience clapping and some day." She then sang "I Love filled the ACC with her music. The singing. As the crowd screamed, You," which she wrote for Chap­emotions of the concert are per­Grant appeared on stage amid a man, her husband. haps best described by a banner mass ofsmoke and purple lights, The crowd screamed as Grant which hung on the wall ofthe ACC and opened the concert with an rocked her way through "Love Will during the concert: "Love found a energetic version of"Too Late." Find a Way." To break up the con-way." 

Concerts-==d 


The upperclasses were determined to stop the Wave 



Viewe_o_i_n_t________
M-on-da)-',N-ov-em-be-r4_,19-85--p-age-8 
Wanted: competent leader for student position 
Wanted: a f.ull-time student who can One must admit his holding an open forum If, and it's a big if, Healy survives the recall, and more time in the student halls, cutting handle a full-time job. Must be an ex­last Wednesday was as gutsy a call as a leader he should legitimize a mandate he is per­down the size and focus of his branch of the perienced volunteerable to do things beyond can make. Healy knowingly walked into a ceived as never having received. Students as a government, delegating the paperwork, 
.his control, receive bate mail with a smile, lion's den to discuss his administration's whole see Healy as having been elected by selecting realistic goals, prioritizing those dominate an administration unwilling to be record. Also, the government newsletter, default. Healy is not viewed as having won the goals, communicating the goals directly to his dominated, stay in touch with 8,000 con­which has been in motion since last semester, race; his opponent lost it. Had the election peers and implementing long-term strategies stituents, and beperceivedas the traditional finally has commenced publication. And scandal not occurred, Healy, according to to achieve the goals. scapegoat -the leader withoutfollowers -the despite complaints of his handling of the Dil­many, would not be president today. 
Knowing the art of the possible, a student 
voice unheard. lon Hall tailgater, Dillon President John Hus­In fact, though carrying all but three dorms president must not give his peers false ex­
mann has come to Healy's defense. and garnering 55 percent of the vote, only 44 
pectations. What cannot be done cannot be
In short, while it may be too little too late, percent ofthe students voted, making the tur­
Joe Murphy done. For too long, too many student body
Healy has begun to articulate, communicate nout the lowest in at least five years. 
presidents have undertaken tasks in whichand act on his vision ofstudent government's In calling for a new ele• t1on, Healy would they lack the means to attain the ends. Hence,so it goes purpose and place at Notre Dame. 
be placing his head in tl !ion's mouth. If the perceived feeling of impotency. It is far His opponents argue Healy is manipulating Healy loses the election, tht studt>nt govern­better to do a little well, than a lot ofnothing.
The job, one which may be open soon, is friends and foes to save his own seat; however, ment was never his to lead in the first place. If Student government is not, never has beenthat ofstudent body president. Life at the top Healy alone can serve as judge ofhis motives. 
he wins, then he has an opportunityf01 ··a new and never will be the panacea to all the stu­can be lonely, as Bill Healy is finding out. One The questions Healy should be asking of beginning."· He will have gained credibility, dents' problems. Healy must communicate cannot help but feel sorry for him; however, himselfare whether he is placing his interests something he never has had and something a this to those who think otherwise.
students should not elect or keep an official before those ofthe institution he leads, whet­leader cannot do without. If Healy does do this, then the problem of out ofpity. If being kicked out ofoffice is the her his primary goal is to save himself or stu­Being perceived as too willing to attack stu­poor perception gradually will eliminate it­worse thing that ever happens to Bill Healy, dent government and whether his continued dent organizations and unwilling to attack the self.
then his will have been a good life. presence promotes or inhibits the common administration, Healy can transform himself I cannot say this strongly or often enough:good ofthe student body.
Leadership is a learning process. Mistakes into a leader who students trust as the keeper Leadership is a learning process, and each one 
The institution must come before the in­
have been made, but Healy can become a oftheir interests. here learning is a first-time leader. 
r­dividual. Healy exists to serve student govern­
much stronger individual if he incorporates
,. 
ment; student government does not exist to Ifattacking the administration is not in the Let us hope all those involved, students andthe lessons which he painfully has been 
r serve Healy. best interest ofstudents or ifpushing too hard student leaders, have learned something in
taught.
r Healy's supporters have stressed if Healy is on one issue jeopardizes other important the past few weeks about themselves and the
Healy's problems rest as much in percep­
r escorted or kicked out ofoffice, then student goals, then Healy simply has to state what he is nature of the institutions which are a part of
tion as in substance. What people perceive
r 
government will stop functioning. This is true doing or not doing and why he is doing or not their lives. If they have, then what happensHealy as doing is as important as what he is
r 
only if those volunteers in student govern­doing it. He must be honest with himself and this week will not mark the end of the begin­r actually doing. 
ment place their loyalty to Bill Healy before with students. Many students do not perceive ning nor the beginning of the end, but rather
r
, Even ifhe survives the recall petition, Healy their loyalty to the students and to student him as such at the moment. Whether he is or "a new beginning." faces a plethora ofproblems. Hopefully, his vi­government. If a new leader is selected, all not, only he knows.
r 
sion will be perceived as clearer and his spine they need do is offer their resignations. The As student body president, Healy should joe Murphy is a juniorgovernmentand in­
r 
r 
perceived as stronger. Perceptions, though, new president can keep them aboard or set clean up the executive branch of student ternational relations major and the View­
persist long after changes have occurred. them adrift. government byspendingless time in his office point editor ofThe Observer. 
~ 

Anti-Apartheid Network responds to ND's policy 
As a coalition of various interest groups on but rather on the observation of past South reform to the workplace, but are not con­patient, to wait, that change would come campus and as a representative of many stu­African reactions to sanctions as applied by vinced that these institutions can effect about gradually. They have waited, but they dent and faculty members in the Notre Dame the U.S. government and the curtailment of 
change in the more fundamental structures of have seen no significant change, and now they community, the Anti-Apartheid Network new private bank loans from the Chase Man­apartheid outside the business environment. can wait no longer. They are asking for our would like to respond to the University's new hattan Bank and other financial institutions. Rather, these corporations have con­help now; they are asking for divestment now. 
tributed capital, technology and ad­The Anti-Apartheid Network believes it is
"Policy Statement on South African Invest­The fact the South African government has ments" as approved by the Board ofTrustees waged an intense propaganda campaign in the ministrative expertise to the system. They time to respond. over the fall break. We applaud the board for United States further testifies to their fear of have paid taxes and supplied products to the recognizing the "moral imperative" that the divestment movement in this country. state, military and police. Most U.S. companies Pat Mullen is vice chairman of the Anti­Notre Dame use its influence to help end apar­We recognize the divestment movement have been in South Africa for a quarter cen­Apartheid Network and is representing the
~ 
theid. may lead to disinvestment on the part of U.S. tury and have made very little progress in bet­viewpoint ofits members. 
r 
companies in South Africa and thus deny U.S. tering the lot ofthe great majority ofblacks.
I 
r Pat Mullen business a lever by which to administer fur­Moreover, the escalating violence that r ther pressure. But we object to this beingused currently reigns in South Africa demands im­as an excuse for not divesting University stock mediate action, not the gradual, long-term 
Policy

~ guest column for the following reasons. change foreign corporations offer. Divest­r First, divestment is a process and not a sud­ment and, if necessary, escalating economic
, 
Clearly, investment policy is a means to that den action. It involves first making the threat sanctions provide the only non-violent oppor­• The Observer accepts letters to ther end. The new policy falls far short of the of selling stock if certain conditions are not tunities to end apartheid and civil war. 
editor at the above address. All letters
r 
pressure required to bring "the South African met, and then carrying out the threatened ac­Finally, the argument fails to take account of
r 
received become the property of The Ob­government to abandon apartheid and to tion in a gradual, steady manner. The threat black opinion and black leadership, and as server. Letters must be typed, no longerr negotiate with legitimate black leaders." itself and the process are important forms of such is paternalistic. Ifit is blacks we want to
r 
than 250 words and signed by the author.
While the policy statement has adopted the pressure. help in South Africa, then we should be listen­
r 
revised Sullivan Principles and established Second, divestiture on the part of Notre ing to their call for divestment. We should be further limitations on investment, it fails to Dame does not automatically constitute disin­listening to the voices ofNelson Mandela, Bis­
• The Observer encourages commen­use the ultimate threat ofdivestment to its full vestment by U.S. companies. Rather, hop Desmond Tutu, Rev. Allan Boesak and 
taries from all members ofthe Notre Dame potential. The policy notes further decisions American businessmen in South Africa will Beyers Naude. We should be listening to the 
and Saint Mary's community. on investment or divestment will be based on feel the economic pressure of yet another African National Congress and the United "genuine negotiation:> and the ending ofapar­large stockholder's divestiture and continue Democratic Front, not deciding what we 
• Guest columns may not . respondtheid," but it does not establish any deadline to push the white government for change. We think is best for them. 
directly to previous commentaries appear­I for these conditions to be met. feel the divestment movement is the main Tutu has said, "Those who invest in South ing in The Observer and may not exceed
' Members of the Anti-Apartheid Network cause of current corporate activism in South Africa should not think they are doing us aI. 
700words.
feel serious pressure on the South African Africa and should thus be continued. favor; they are here for what they get out of
r 
government will not be brought about until Third, we disagree with the view that U.S. ourcheap and abundant labor and they should
r 
the leaders of apartheid understand there is a businesses have the potential to bring about know that they are buttressingone ofthe most • Commentaries appearing in The Obser­real danger of U.S. corporations pulling out of significant change in the apartheid system. We vicious systems." 
ver do not necessarily reflect the opinionsthat country. are pleased that U.S. corporations, pressed by Blacks have heen told over and over what is ofThe Observer.
This judgment is not based on speculation, the Sullivan Principles, have brought some best ti1r them. They have been told to be 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the day 
"Keep a secret, it's your slave. Tell it and it's your master." 
Will Henry Chicago Tribune 

L____________________________ ------------­

---------------.. 
-
"ieVVP-~O~i~n~t~~-----------------------------------------M_o_n_d_a_y._N_o_v_e_m_b_er_4_,_1_9_ss__-p_a_g__e9 



Dillon, administration take issue to the extremes 
You are entering into a world where all sense of reality bas disappeared, where stu­dents think they can do anything they please, where New Year's Eve parties are broken up after 2 a.m. because they violate parletals, where looking at two sides ofan issue is un­deniably absurd. You are entering into . ... 
Hello? Is anybody home? 
It is time for somebody to go out and find the residents of Dillon Hall and the members ofthe Notre Dame administration responsible for making the rules that govern student life and bring them back to reality. 
Mike Wilkins here, there and back 
It seems members of both groups have taken a vacation from the real world and become at least temporary residents of "The Twilight Zone." They have stopped offat that dreaded place where all your worst fears, no matter how crazy they are, become reality through the powers ofyour imagination. 
Along the way, Dillon residents have some­how come to believe that there are no bounds to the exhibitions of their spirit, and that the administration is trying to take over their lives by making rules that suddenly appear bet· ween the lines ofdu Lac. 
And the administration has been struck by the thought that the best way to punish a group of people is to take away privileges from those people and all their friends, and that the best way to get a better handle on students is to make rules that suddenly appear from between the lines ofdu Lac. 
Truthfully, you have to admire the spirit continuously displayed by members ofDillon. They throw themselves Into everything they do and set the example for the rest of us to follow when it comes to supporting Notre Dame in virtually any endeavor. But sometimes Dillonites get a little carried away. 
They do things that could be considered of­fensive by administrators, alumni or even stu· dents. When this happens, the administration has certain reactions. 
At the same time, the administration has a justifiable role of maintaining a certain stan­dard oflife at Notre Dame. This is certainly an admirable goal and Notre Dame has long been known for the quality atmosphere that pervades the campus. But sometimes the ad· ministration gets a little carried away. They try to control students' lives instead of trying to guide them. When this happens, students have certain reactions. 
Such is the situation now. A number of Dil· Ion residents got carried away at a tailgater on another campus not too long ago. The ad· ministration responded by taking away one of Dillon's SYRs and assigning the dorm a service project. 
The folks in the administration are mad be· cause the conduct of a relatively small num­ber ofstudents gave a very bad impression, for which the Notre Dame's administration has received a large number of calls and com· plaints. 
The folks in Dillon are mad because the whole dorm is being punished for the ac­tivities of a relatively small number of its members and because the punishment came as a result of activities that took place nowhere near the friendly confines of Notre Dame. 
Both sides have legitimate complaints, but on their little vacations from reality they have each failed to see the other's point ofview and have put things terribly out ofproportion. 
There are certain things both sides must realize. First, like it or not, students at Notre Dame represent the University at all times. Embarrassing conduct reflects poorly not only on individual students, but on the Uni­versity as well. The University has a reputation to protect; that reputation played at least some role in bringing each of us here. When a group of students does something damaging to this reputation, they should expect to be punished. 
The second important thing to realize is if the administration wants to set out rules for students to follow, they must be enforced f.lirly. This means students must know what kind of conduct is prohibited in dillerent situations and that entire groups of people will not be punished for the actions ofcertain members of that group. If the University Is going to establish rules aimed at protecting Its reputation, it seems only fair that the students should be informed ofthese rules before they go out and break them, and that only those students who actually do decide to break the rules are punished for their conduct. 
So with these ideas in mind, I propose the following suggestions in an effon to bring Dil­lon and the administration back from "The Twilight Zone." 
To Dillon Hall: All those residents involved in the tailgater incident should step forward and turn themselves in. Since their conduct has damaged the entire dorm, these in· dividuals should be punished within the 
dorm, preferably with some kind of work to 
be performed for the dorm. 
Also, In an offering of good faith, the dorm 
as a whole should volunteer to take on a 
service project either with the University at 
large, or better yet, with some organization or 
individual outside of campus. This will show 
the dorm is worried about Its reputation and 
Notre Dame's and will work to see that those 
reputations are not damaged. 
To the administration: Give Dillon its SYR 
back. This is a much bigger punishment than 
you realize, and also much bigger than most 
Dillon residents would be willing to admit. 
This will show the residents of Dillon and the 
entire student body you are willing to 
cooperate with students if they will do the 
same. 

Also, establish firm Interpretations ofdu Lac so students will know exactly what Is ex­pected ofthem. Show the students you are not trying to make rules that prevent them from -having a good time with the Notre Dame flag flying overhead,_ but are merely trying to do your best to protect the reputation and atmo­
sphere that is so important to Notre Dame. 
The big question among students, and 
probably among members of the administra­
tion as well, is just how far the provisions ofdu 
Lac reach. The administration avoided this 
issue last year during the spring break Inci­
dent. Now, the administration must face this 
issue and provide students with some clear 
guidance. Unless the administration clarifies 
its position soon, we are all going to end up In 
"The Twilight Zone." 
Mike Wilkins is a Notre Dame law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

NAACP will benefit entire ND black community 
The National Association for the Advance­ment of Colored People Is an organization which over the past several decades, has es­tablished Itself as the most powerful minority Institution in the history of the United States. Officially founded in 1909, the organization was designed to elevate the socio-economic and political status of blacks in the United States. 
Lester Flemons guest column 
As the years progressed, the NAACP gained tremendous power and influence, particularly in U.S. politics. In the 1960s the organization made political history by winning passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Bill, the 1965 Voting Rights Bill, and the 1968 Fair Housing Act. Membership In the NAACP also progressed, reaching 91 ,000 in 1919 and a staggering 400,000 In 1985. In the 50-year period im­mediately following the NAACP's inception, blacks gained more rights than they had gained In the previous 200 years. 
Recognizing the need for such an organiza­tion at Notre Dame, several black students took the initiative and set out to charter the organization last spring. Led by senior govern­ment major Carlton West, and assisted by Melva Martin, president of the local South Bend NAACP chapter, the group succeeded in establishing the Notre Dame's first NAACP college chapter. "Black students at Notre Dame's need to know that they have an or­ganization like the NAACP behind them," stated West. 
"Not only will the organization add unity to the black population at Notre Dame, but it will also give black students an organized network for which they may regtSter any complaints or observations they may have." 
West and his colleagues noticed that In the fall of 1984, Notre Dame had admitted only 34 black students out of a class of 1,81 0. "The University's admittance ofblack students is an area which must be improved," West said. "If the administration does not take a course of action, the students will." 
In addition to the problem of black admit· tance, West also cited Notre Dame's lack of black professors as well as reports of dis· crimination in dorms and classrooms. "In the past, black students and other minorities have had no one to complain to but themselves," West said. "Now these students have a structured organization which will not only listen to their complaints, but thoroughly in­vestigate them as well." 
According to West, another objective ofthe Notre Dame NAACP college chapter will be to improve the relationship between white and black students at Notre Dame. "It's difficult for whites and blacks to socialize together at Notre Dame," he said. "It's a disheartening situation because blacks tend to become is­olated and therefore left out of the Notre Dame social life. 
"I've heard several white studentscomplain about the social life at Notre Dame. It would be interesting ifsome of those white students c<'Uld be black for a few weeks. Then, they would really have something to complain about." 
West is hoping that a proportionate number of white students will recognize the need for the NAACP at Notre Dame and will become members ofthe organization. "Ifthe organiza· tion is truly to ba a success, we need par­ticipaton from all students ofall nationalities," asserted West. "It's time for the student body at Notre Dame to come together for a very important cause. The fact that we are all human beings should override whether orror not we are white or black." 
On Sunday, Sept. 28, the Notre Dame NAACP college chapter held its first general meeting. West was not surprised that only 40 students attended the meeting. 
"I think that many of the students are waiting to see if the organization is for real," said West. "Once they see that we are ded· icated to make this organization a success, I'm certain greater participation will result. 
"Every senior must look within himselfand realize that we did not do everything we could to better the situation for blacks at Notre Dame, but the future is always bright. If 
we want to see prosperity grow, we must act 
on the future's behalf," West concluded. 
Although only 40 students attended the 
first meeting, West reported that membership 
for the organization, nevertheless, has 
doubled since then. 
West strongly urges any students Interested in becoming members of the Notre Dame NAACP chapter to sign up in the Black Cul­tural Arts Center office on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center, or call any of the following students: Carlton West ( 277· 7149), Dennis Tillman ( 1521 ), Martin Rodgers ( 19 51 ), or Lester Flemons ( 26I 0 ). 
Lester Flemons is a seniorEnglish major at Notre Dame. 

William Perry-more than your average home appliance. 

P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer 1s the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of e1ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos· s1ble. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief .............................Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ..............................._............ Frank Lipo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ..............~ .................... Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ...... ............... David Stephen1tch Controller.... . . William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager ................ .. .......Jim Hagan Systems Manager.. . . . ..... .... .Mark B. Johnson Production Manager... .... John A. Men nell 
Founded November 3, 1966 
r-The Observer Monday, November 4, 1985 -page 10 
Sports Briefs 
The ND volleyball team lost a match to DePaul this weekend in Chicago. The 1 5-0, 15-11, 7-1 5, 15-1 0 final score dropped the Irish season record to 9-16 (5-2 in the North Star Con­ference), while the Blue Demons clinched the top seed in the up­coming NSC tournament with the victory. -The Obseroer 
ND women's flag football resumed this 
weekend as undefeated Farley topped Lyons in overtime, 14-8, while Pasquerilla East defeated Pasquerilla West, 26-22. Farley will meet Pasquerilla East on Sunday at 2 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Details of the weekend action will appear in tomorrow's Observer.-The Obseroer 
SMC aerobic classes will be held beginning today and running through to the end of the semester. Classes will meet from 10-10:55 p.m. Monday and Wednesday, and from 5-6 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday. The entry fee of S5 will be accepted at the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Obseroer 
A Red Cross water safety instructor course 
sponsored by NVA will hold an organization meeting tonight at 7 
p.m. at Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. For more in­formation about the course call the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
Off-Campus basketball will be meeting 
tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Lafonune Little Theater. Anyone in­terested in playing should attend. For more information call Grant Gailius at 234-2275.-The Obseroer 
Off-Campus hockey team will be meeting 
tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in the Lafonune Lounge. Anyone intere~ted should attend. For more information call Ed Sullivan at 272-2454 or Tim Connors at 288-5484. 
An NVAweighttrainingworkshopwill be 
held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Rockne Weight Room. Gary Weil, strength and conditioning coach, will be on hand to demonstrate proper techniques. For more information call the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
Stepan Center court time is available upon re­quest. Applications should be taken to the Student Activities Office on the first floor of LaFonune by Wednesday. -The Obseroer 
NVA interhall basketball rosters must be sub­
mitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. There is a S25 entry fee for men's teams and a S20 entry fee for women's teams. For more information call the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
NVA Grad and Club basketball rosters must 
be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. For more information call the NVA office.-The Obseroer 
NVA interhall hockey rosters must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC byWednesday. There is a team entry fee of S35 to be submitted with a roster. For more information call the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
NVA table tennis tournament registrations 
must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. The tournament is open to students, staff, and faculty, and will be single elimination. For more information call the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
NVA squash tournament registrations must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. The tourna­ment is open to students and faculty. For more information call the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
Breeder's darkens award race 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Breeders' Cup Day at Aqueduct provided exciting com­petition, and when it was over, the championship picture was as cloudy as the skies under which the seven races were run. 
"I think it made it more compl­icated for you guys," trainer John Veitch told a group ofreporters Sun­day when asked how his Proud Truth's upset victory Saturday in the S3 million Classic would affect the races for the 3-year-old champion­ship and Horse of the Year. 

It also kept Chiefs Crown from probably clinching both titles. The Marlboro Cup winner, who also won the Breeders' Cup Juvenile in 1984, finished fourth, beaten by about 10 lengths by Proud Truth. 

Read 
Football Notebook 


l"h" Ohserr·a :'\;otrt· Damt· otfke. locart·J on rht· rhrrJ floor of I.Jhtnunl' ~ruJt·nr <t·nr.-r. J<l't·pr' tla'"finJ JJn·rr"tn!( from<) J m unltl i p m ..\lonJJ\ rhrou!(h l·rtJJ\ Th.. ( Jhsar•er ~atnl \1Jn ·, offitt' lm art·J on rht· rhtrJ tloor ot lla!(gJr Coli<'g<' <t'nlt'r. an..-pr' da"ttit·J, from 1!. ~0 p m unit I ~ p m ..\ton Ja\ rho ugh I rtJ.i\ l>t·JJitnt· for nt·xr-JJ\ tla"ilit·J, " ~ p m .-\11 tiJ"tfit·J, mu'r ht· prt·patJ. t'tlhn in pt·r-on or h\ mJtl < hJrg<'" I 0 tt'nh r>l'rfiH·charat


ClaSsifieds 
It'" <:r Jav 

HELP!!Deaperalely need4 GA'aand 1ST THE MBA:PREPAIIATION & PLAN­Thank you St. Jude. Thank you HolyNOTICES sidewalk -een PE & Grace before rur· AVAILAIILEII I have over twenty LSU ti• for MiNiaaippi and LSU. Call Patty at NING Spirit.J. noll toPE. celt Kerry •45081o identify. GA ticketa for aale to anyone who wants 
Found: Women·a watch aaturday nile on LSU GA'a AVAILAIILEI LSU GA'a 
284-4333 after 11 pm Dean Waddrck Speaks them. They are great aeata but are going 7:30 122 Hays Healy Audilorium TYPING AVAILABLE LOST: My aungluaee eomewhere bet­f•t!! It you need any of lhese lid<els call Monday,Nov.4 1985 
· ROIIE·POIIE-ITS YOUR BDAY,SO 
HAVE A GOOD TIME.BUT PLEASE.

287-4082 ween green field and Grace hal aher the 3828 sometime soon. Any tickets that WATCH OUT FOR BUGS ON THE WALLUSC game, They are black, mirrored, and aren1 bought here ar NO are to be sold ro 
PERSONALS 
AND THOSE VICIOUS BATHROOMhave an aqua atripe acroaa the frame. a hoard 61 AMid TIGER Fana! 1 

STAll8-WE CAN'T HAVE YOUR

TYPING CAU CHRII 234-811117 They are very sentimental!!!! can Jim at All Juniora 
..................... FAINTING IN THE DOCTOR'S ARMS
4245. Thanks!! I knew eomeone would TICKETS FOR IALE: 2 UIU GA.'S. 
lnterealed

• EXPERT TYPING 2n-B534 AFTER 5:30 return them!! CALL (111) n5-0630 You don't need me any longer. You need AGAIN!IITHANKS FOR BE· lNG SUCH A NIGHTS/WEEKENDS. to keep finding youraflll, ali!tle more each GREAT AOOMIE'LOVE.THE
In Working for JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND MUST
day, that real, unlimited (you). He's your YAHWESS 2n..o45 DIANA DRIVER'S LICENSE AND LOTS DOES YOUR DAD COMPLAIN ABOUT instructor. You need to understand MEET
TYPING LOST N.D. 10 HOLDER WITH 10, IN­MON.NOV4 
HAPPY, HAPPY, HAPPY BIRTHDAYS AT7PMFREE PICKUP & DEUVERY OF STUFF ESSENTIAL TO MY LIFE!I! IF COU.EGE COSTS? DOES HE KNOW him. 
NEVA AND BRIDGET'YOU FINO THIS PLEASE PLEASE HE CAN INVEST IN A SO. BEND IN UTILE THEATER 

-Richard Bach, (SORRY I'M A LITILE LATE WITHPLEASE CALL MARY TIMM (the name DUPLEX AND WAITE OFF YOUR LAFORTUNE
Jonathan Llvlngeton a.guH THIS.) 
appll~--R--... -; AT THE ARCHITECTURE OFFICE. BELIEVE HE CAN BUY ONE HERE FOR pickup & dellvwy on _.,_ $16,500? TEll HIM TO CALL JOYCE 
TYPING term~•....,_, t.tter., on al my stuff) AT 272-0811 OR LEAVE HOUSING EXPENSE? WOULD YOU 
MAXELL XU/ 90's 

evellltllle. c:.11 c.thy lchullz .,._ Found in Engineering library: CUio KEVORKIAN, CRESSY & EVERETT OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. Only 1 0 for $23 5-10 p.m. 277-5134. Scientific Calculator. CaH 1088 REALTORS, 232·1193 OR 233-6141. 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1. Rock du lac, firat floor LaFortune C.P.R. BLOCK SOUTH OF' HOLIDAY INN. lanlara & Gr8d atuclanta In C.S.-IIMh· 
I 
S1o-IMO WEEKLY/UP ltiAIUNG CIR­FOUND: STUDENT FOOTBALL 1878 Datsun210, 43,000 milee, auto. EE-...vlc Langu-.r anllcl~ng lui­CULAMI NO QUOTAS! SINCERELY nCKET •ooKLET. CALL 3427. tranam., e•cetlenl conditic.n, $2295,-272-THINK STY! AEROIIICS AEROIIlCSIII lime ernploymant within tha nell! y­INTERESTED RUIH IELF· 
9383 THINKSTVI Come join in the fun I'IMCiad lor market ..-ch prOfacl In ADOREU£D ENVELOPE: IUCCESI, LOST • ONE GOLD LOOP EARRING 
THINKSTV! Sunday-Thuraday !O:OOpm Wltmat1a, IL on Nov. I for -& ­PO 1101 470CEG, WOOOITOCK, IL ABOUT 6 WEEKS AGO SOMEWHERE 
Cannon AE·1 35mm camera, hardly ar Knights of Columbua. half hour focua group. $85 Nlmbu.-­80018. BETWEEN PANGBORN AND REGINA. uaed. Call Paul277-3912 
Any queationa cal Karen at 2855 rnant. call Mra. Dean collac1 312-25&­IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 
SMC Aide Board take a look in the Haggar Seeyathere! n44. 
IEXPERT TYPING IEJIVICE. CAU 284-4006. 
Game Room! 
I 
liAS. COKER, ~7001. 
Matt Michel FOUND: 1 PSYCH 211A TEXTBOOK. 
Thinking of you .. All Junlore YOUR BOOK HAS 2 PLAYING CARDS 
TICKETS 
No pouaing out--let' a party' FASHION VICnll8111

intereated in FOR BOOKMARKERS; MINE DOESN'T. LOCAL COMPANY SEEKS MBA STU­Happy 22nd BirthdayCommittee Poeitiona CALL JOE X1544 SO WE CAN TRADE. DENT with intereat in technical marketing. A BEAUX ARTS BALL and Chairman PoeitiONI E'S .ACKI SELL ME 2 GA'S & AS MANY Must have beckground in engineering or Nov. 15, 1985 
Muatmeetat STD TKS FOR MISS. AS I NEED. THIS science, and strong communication skih. $4Preaale 
I 
BIMBI Utile~ MIGHT BE YOUR JACKPOT! CALL Fle•ible houra, 12 per--WiR deeign $5 at the door TU ME PLAIT Lafortune NOW!STEVE3318 and conduct market r-ch for new 
JETE FIE 

On lion. Nov. 4th FOR RENT products in computer software and ............................................................... 
J. 

at 7 Pll. NEEDED-2-4 GA'S FOR LSU GAME. microetectronica. Send reeu malo Wilmea Remember: SLACK AND WHITE ALL WILL PAY PREMIUM. CALL4434. Systems, Inc., 300 N. Michigan, Suite NIGHT? IMPORTED? PAINT THE TOWN RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE 414, South Bend, IN 46601 RED?JFASHION VICTliiSIII A IIEAUl 
WANTED-TWO TICKET STUBS (INOVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR

THE IIAIL CAMPAIGN: REaUIId AND I NEED IIIUGAa.272-aol ART BALL Nov. 15, 1985 
EXCELLENT CONDITION) OR A FULL

COVER LETTER. PRESEHTAnON .y CtTY/COllEGATE RENTALS 
TICKET FROM THE PURDUE VSINC.,2597661

PAUL IIEYNOLOI OF CAReER ANO HELP! I need SENIOR WITH COMPUTER SCIENCE NOTRE DAME GAME. CALL 255-7103 
PLACEMENT IERVICES. NOV~ 2 Pann S181a tix THE MAIL CAMPAIGN: RESUIIU ANDt BACKGROUND needed by local com­AFTEA5PM.
1 or 2 AOOMMATES needed tor Turtle Call Rob x2106 pany tor part time and eventual tun time5 • I:JO P.ll., 118 NIEUWLAND COVER LETTERS. PREIENTAnON 
Creek Townhouae. Great townhouae, position, for "C" language eoftware HAVE A PROBLEM? ST. JUDE CANSCIENCE HALL REPEATED NOVEII­BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER 
very relll0flllb4e. Cal 277-2364 developmenl uaing atate-of·the-art HELPIEJII. PENN STATE nx NEEDED AND PLACEMENT IEJIVICU. 
CALL 11504 NOVEM.ER 5 • 5:30 p.m., 118 FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED IM· 
programming IDOla on IBM PC/AT. Mini­
NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL MEDIATELY.NOTAE DAME 
mum of 16 houra per week including 
REPUTED NOVEII.ER I. APTS.CHEAP.CALL ALICE 287-7857. FREE TRIP TO FORT LAUDERDALE
Saturdays. December graduateI NEED 2 MISS GA'S OR STUDENT preferred. Send reeume to Wilmea Sys­OR DAYTONA FOR SPRING BREAK, 
I 
TIX'S. PLEASE CAll BILL-3467 Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE AT NEED ROOMMATE FOR 2ND BE A SPOATSTOUAS
LOST/FOUND I 
tems, Inc., 300 N. Michigan, Suite 414, 
272-HIKE. Delivery Houra: Monday­SEMESTER AT HICKORY VILLAGE REPRESENTATIVE. CALL (800) 86­
South Bend, IN 46601 
Need 2 MiN. GA's. Nick 3662 Thursday 5pm-12pm: Friday 5pm-2am: LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. Sarurday 3pm-1am and Sunday 4pm­
CALL 27Ni298 BREAK. 
..........PENN.Iiirii'TiX'j;jiiE'oE·o..........
REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CON­10pm. TACT ALICE 287-7657. CALL 11504 Muscteman, womanizer,male proetitute ••~ ••>;""......................................... 
STEVE HARVEY turna 19 today. thank you st. jude HAPPY IIIRTHDAY KE..Y-aASYII FOUND: SMALl BLACK PURSE WITH '!!HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! WAY TO 0011 ENJOY THE POPCORN,
WANTED
NO 1.0. BUT LOTSA DOLLARS. FOUND I NEED 2 MISS GA'S OR STUDENT THEN HIT THE BOOKI. LUV FROM ONOCT.16ATPARTYATCORNEAOF TIX'S. PLEASE CALL BILL-3467 To Pluto, MOM, DAD, PAT, PEG, IUE, MIKE, NAVARRE AND ST. LOUIS. CALL TED EARN $$$ FOR ALL THOSE BOOKS Happy 21sl Birthda) ro the newest mem­COLLEEN, IAII, MOOCH, IPOOK, 
AIDE/RIDERS NEEDED TO
AT 2393 TO IDENTIFY. Need 2 MiN. GA's. Nick 3662 YOU DIDN'T READ!! PANDORA'S WILL ber of the Novice Knittero! BONNIE AND CLYDE. SYRACUSE 11/1!>-17 CALL KELLY 
BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M·F 11-4. OR .................... ..................................... 
4241
TO WHO EVER TOOK MY BACKPACK· Need 4 GA'I tor MiN. Call Jane at 3690 WE CAN HELP YOU FIND A USED HAPPY B-DAY KEVIN MURPHY! I do not ..,e how you happened to get it, BOOK FOR A CLASS. WE'RE OPEN M­PARTY nilE IN 320 IIOARIUEYI but at,_havelhe decency to return my NEEDIIIU.nl F 1Hi, SAT&SUN 10.5. PANDORA'S IS ROOMMATE NEEDED: Must be female, B.Y.O.•. ·ANYTIME. NO FAT CHICKS. NOTES. My bact<pack wu dai1< blue and 6, FEMALE STDNT OR GA OPPOSITE CORBY'S AT 937 SOUTH 21 years old with a pension for penguins. di~ed during lunch 10/16 ar eouth TOM 288-4753 AFTER 11 PM BEND AVE. To aettle in Portland. Great opportunitlea HAPPY B-DAY KE..Y-aA.aYII!f
FOR SALE
dining hall. It contained al of my notee for in microbiology. THANKS FOR THE GREEIEAAAT nilEI Hiatory, Ph)'lli~. Emil, and Englilh.ltaleo EARN $$$ FOR ALL THOSE BOOKS IT WAS THE HOTTEITII!IIIIC.M. contained a Radio Shack calculalor and a HELP! "'EED 2 LSU GA'S WILL PAY YOU DIDN'T READ!! PANDORA'S WILL r-booka. My name and number •e on Studying for a German reading e..m? BUCKS! CALL MIKE 2079 BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M·F 11-4. OR Dear Agnes, A deak? Know I understand. everything in my backpack, 'eo it lhould Bertirz rapea & booka • $30. Uaed "once" WE CAN HELP YOU FIND A USED Mario Meario, I wouldn't tell anyone either' Have a won­not be difficult lo find me. I would really & I paaaed!! Call 232-5230 evee. NEED 3 STUDENT TICKETS TO MISS. BOOK FOR A CLASS. WE'RE OPEN M· Get ready for a cruiain' time Monday night! derful 20th!!!!! love, your mother appreciate it it I could have my NOTES GAME. CALL 1360 ASK FOR STEVE F 11-6, SAT&SUN 10.5. PANDORA'S IS t.ck. It you have them P'-cal MIKE at Bundy Trombone $150. celt 239-6010 or OPPOSITE CORBY'S AT 937 SOUTH To my old man. I miN you! 143!!! Love, 2360. No queetiona uked. 233-2683 after 5:30 I NEED MISS. TIX MIKE 1476 BEND AVE. your young daughter 


ND trounces Loyola in soccer season finale 
By PETE SK.IKO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer . team went out in style. 
After a somewhat disappointing 
season, the Irish finished the year 
with three impressive wins, cul­
minating in their 7-0 whitewashing 
of Loyola (Chicago) Friday after­
noon at Alumni Field. 
"I'm proud of the way our guys 
finished strong," said second-year 
head coach Dennis Grace. "Three 
wins in a row is a great way to end it. 
We played well, exceptional at 
times, and we used a lot of good 
things that we've learned throug­
hout the year." 
Senior John Gibbs, playing in his 
last game for Notre Dame, scored 
the first goal of the Loyola game. 
Ironically, it was his first and only 
goal of the year. 
Another senior, Dave Miles, 
scored the 23rd goal of his prolific 
four-year career in his final game at 
Notre Dame. Miles had mixed emo­
tions about the end of his career. 
"In a way. I'm glad that it's over," 
said Miles. "I need some more time 
to get back to my schoolwork. But, 
of course, I'll miss playing again." 
Miles was disappointed with his 
final season, hut attributes many of 
.. 
Paying back !fOur coUege :::: loen can be a long, uphlU battle. • • But the Army'I Loan R..,alflllenl Program makes H .. eaay. 
Each year !fOU HTVe u a ·· eoldler, the Army wiD reduce !fOur college debt by 'Ill or $1,500, .. ""lchever amount wgream. So 
~-::~-: alter Mnllng jll8t 3 yean, !JIOur college loan wiD be completely paid olf. 
SERGEANT LANE 234-4187 
·· ARMY. 
.. 
BE All YOU CAN BE.
f 
·::::::::::;.;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
DORM 

TUG-OF-WAR 
TOURNAMENT 
The Ultimate 
Begins NOV 4 at 6PM in frr .lt of NORTH &SOUTH DINING HALLSI 

SHOWDOWN NOV7 
between quads 
Yankees and Rebels sign UP,iiwith United Way Dorm Reps i' 
I 




TODAY! 
ALLMONEY GOES TO UNITED WAY 

the problems that he and Notre Dame had to a tougher schedule. 
"I felt that we learned a lot this year, we learned that we could play with some pretty good teams," noted Miles, "but I had less con­fidence in my game this year be­cause of the increased caliber of play." 
Joe Sternberg, a freshman who led Notre Dame in scoring with ten goals this year, was happy with the way he contributed this year and is very optimistic about the next few years. 
"The team really pulled together on our trip to Florida (over fall break) and I hope that our strong finish sets the stage for next year. With a good recruiting year next year, we could start out the year ranked pretty high. The tough schedule we played this year helped me get a lot of experience." 
All in all, Coach Grace was pleased with his team's development over the last season and is looking for­ward to coaching his third season. 
"If everybody works hard in the offseason and we do some decent recruiting, we'll be competitive with everyone we play next year. I can only hope that we continue to grow as a team like we did toward the end of this year." 
You're eligible 'for this program with a National Direct Student Loan or a FederaUylnsured Student Loan made alter October I, 1975. And the Loan Can't be In default. 
And juat because !fOU've 
left college, don't think !fOU11•top learning In the Army. Our 1klll training olfen a wealth of valuable high-tech, career--oriented 1k1Ds. Call your local Army Recruiter to find out more. 
-·­
~ 
-Hockey 
-----------------~~-­
---~----­
The Observer Monday, November 4, 1985-page 11 

Th< Obocrver/Hann<J Hacker 

Senior Dave Miles ( 14) andjuniorMarvin Lett gofor a header in action earlier this season. The Irish closed out their 1985 schedule with 7-0 victory over Loyola (Chi.) yesterday. Pete Skiko bas the details in his story at left. 
.-------------~.-------------­

130 U.S. 31 North 1 Mile North of Campus 
277-4519 

FREE DELIVERY 
I •
-------------------------..,
1 Monday I Wednesday I Sunday I 
I I
I 14", 1 item I 16", 11tem 18", 11tem 
I $5.951 $7.95 I $9.951 
L 
Call beforeTi I Call before 11 ILeaII before 9:30 1 ' ----~-------,., 
..,---------~clip and save Jll'8-----------, 
.N.AUGLES® ~~IJ~~~y6:00· Midnight 272-5455 
501 Dtxleway North, Roseland. Indiana 
NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! 


MEXICAN KITCHEN 
Reg.  M•cho  
T•.:o  1.09  1.69  
Burrlloe  
Bean  1.79  2.49  
Meal  2.39  3.29  
Combo  2.09  2.79  
Cheeee  1.89  2.59  

Make lllny bwrito wet for 50 cents!! 
P.S. Don't order macho unless you're ready for lll pound of goodies! 
N•choe & Cheeee 1.19 Have some sauce for no extro111 charge to spice them up thllt much more. 
M•cho N•cho'• 2.19 Refrled beans, chips, cheese. peppers, mild ~T~eat sauce. spk:y green sauce! 
Toelada Gr•nde 3.29 (In o shell wonderlul) Rog Platter Mexlc•n Sal•d 1.29 2.89 Toelada Combo 1.59 2.09 Chile Ole' .99 2.39 Taco Sandwich 1.49 2.59 Chicken Sandwich 1.74 2.84 Platter Assortment of sauces & side orders. Want II a special way just order II! 
Enchilada'1 (Planer of 2) Meal · lotza so~~~uce & cheese 2.00 Chicken 2.50 
DINNERS 
•1 
Enchilada • 1 chicken, 1 beef ,r2 Macho Taco 

•3 
Me•t Burrito ,r4 Cheeee Burrito & T•co 


Complete with Mexican salad, refrled blans, chill & cheese, guacamole. sour cream & a pile of chips 
Adinner with enough leh over for tomorrow's LU~CH! 
4.79 
Plus tax on prices · $5.00 minimum order 
·----------·clipand save·------------­
AMERICAN KITCHEN 
H•mburgere · 4 lo • pound 
CUSTOM GRfl.l.ED NOT STOCK PILED 

Naugleburger  1.99  
2 Patties with the works  
double cheese  
Deluxe Hamburger  1.39  
2 Patties with lettuce,  
tomato, lllllyo dressing  
H•mburger  1.19  
2 Patties with pickle, ketchup.  
mustard, onion  
add cheese .20  
DESSERTS  

Hot Fudge • Hot Caramel • Strawberry • dr'irtgt Blueberry • Chocolate • Cherry • Vanilla • Root Beer Shakeo 1.09 Sund•e• 
1.49 Fudge Brownie .69 P•••rv .69 
Fudge Brownie Sund•e 1.69 
DRINK UP! 

Cold Beverage:• 12 oz.-.64 20 oz.-.79 32 oz.-.94 
Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Root Beer. Mt. Dew Dr. Pepper, Wekhes, Sunklsl, Lemonade Ice T... Milk, Orange Juice 
Hot Bever•ge• · .47 Coffee, Hot Chocolate, Hot Tea 
SIDE ORDERS 

French Frlee .99 Refrled Beane .99 wllh chill •auce .99 
N•cho Chlpe .39 Guacamole Fresh, Fresh. Fresh .89 Sour Cream .25 Extr• cheeee for •nylhlng .50 
continuedfrom page 16 
quillare. Sobilo's goal came on a beautiful shorthanded effort at 8:'59. 
In the third period, Kent State tried to rally around O'Neill's goal at 4:21, which cut the Irish lead to 5-4. But the Irish responded with scores from Mooney and Whitmore to put the game out of reach. Tonna and Chapman rounded out the scoring to make the final score 8-'5. 
Irish head coach Lefty Smith, while happy to get two wins, wasn't completely pleased by his club's weekend effort. 
"Last night (Friday) we didn't play 
well," commented Smith. "We need 
a lot of work on shooting, as we had 
too many missed opportunities. 
Also, we need to work on defense in 
our own end. Right now we're too 
tentative. We're not clearing the 
zone." 
Smith also expressed concerned 
about the play ofhis sophomores. 
"They have to play with more 
poise, but they're hard-working so it 
looks encouraging." 
Despite the problems, Smith did 
give further cause for optimism. 
"Tonight (Saturday) Is the first en­couraging, game. The return of Bob Thebeau helped. His ability to get the puck out ofour end is important, and he is needed on the power play. 
''I'm pleased with the way Rich Sobilo is coming on," Smith con­tinued. "Waldbillig had been strug­gling so it's nice to see him score." 
The Irish return to the road next 
weekend to take on Michigan­
Dearborn before returning home to 
face St. Thomas Nov. I5-I6. 
FRESHMEN & SOPHOMORES ONLYll scholarships, grants, student financial aid available WRITE for Free Details: 
Scholarship Research Service 803 S. 34thAve. 
Canyouaffordtogamble
with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,orMCA17 
Probamy not. Great grades 
alone may not be enouQh to 
impress the grad school of 
your choice. 
Scores play a part. And 
that's how Stanley H. Kaplan' 
can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches 
test-taking techniques, reviews 
course subjects, and increases 
the odds that you'll do the best 
you cando. 
So if you've been out of 
school for a while and need a 
refresher. or even if you're fresh 
out of college, do what over 1 
million students have done. 
ifake Kaplan. Why take l
·a chance with your career? 
KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL aNTER LTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave . South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135 

-------~-~----­
The Observer Monday, November 4, 1985 -page 12 
season. . . The Irish have now beaten Navy 22 straight times, with
Irish 
Navy's last victory coming in continuedfrom page 16 1963. 
forced some crucial turnovers that 
s.tura.y'a a.m.
kept Navy from putting up any big Navy 7 3 0 7 17 numbers on the scoreboard. 0 7 0
Notre Dame 20 14 Scoring
"After the first series, some ofour 
Navy ND guys came over and said that Firstdowna 23 2'T Ruehing attempts 38 56
Napoleon and a couple oftheir other 
Net Yards Rulhing 142 314 backs were carrying the ball a little Net Yards Puaing 246 230 Puaea camp-attempted 26-42 14-23
loosely," recalled Irish strong saff"'y 
Had intercepted 2 1Pat Ballage. "So that was on our Total Net Yards 388 544 
minds when we went up to make a Fu--loat 6-4 2-2 
Penalties-yards 1-5 6-32
tackle. We wanted to put a good lick 
Punta-average 3-37 4-32.5 on them and try to knock the ball Individual._....... RUSHING-Navy: Mce.tlum 24-124: Berner 5-15: 
out., 
M. Smith 3-11: Holl2-7: McKenna 1-7: w...ce 1-(-3):
That's exactly what happened, Byrne 2-(-19): Notre Dame: Pinkett27-161; Green 2­Franciaco 5-34: Starns
and the results were devastating for 52; Monahan 4-21: 5-18; 
Andrysiak 4-16: Southall 2-8; Clrler 4-5: Taylor 2-4: 
Navy. Coming into Saturday's game, Beuer1ein 1-(-5): the Midshipmen had lost the ball on PASSING-Navy: Byrne 22-36-2, 192: Miech 4-6-0, 54: Notre Dame: Andryaiak 11-1Hl, 195: Beuer1ein
fumbles only twice. But the Irish 
3-6-1,35: defense forced six fumbles, four of RECEIVING -Navy: Mce.tlum 6-30: Schildmeyer 3-46: Sniffen 3-30: Berner 3-28; M. Smith 3-6: Kmiec
which it recovered, to help its 
2-38; Ray 2-25; Saunders 2-14; Lobb 1-19; Holt 1-8; own cause. Notre Dame: Brown 5-111: Ward 3-48; Eaon 2-27; Rehder 2-21: Miller 1-14: Green 1-9: 
"We saved them all for this game," 
Attendance-59,075 
said Navy Head Coach Gary Tran­quill of his team's turnover problems. "You can't turn the ball 
Andrysiak
oversix times and expect to win. We felt we could move the ball and I continuedfrom page 16 think we did move the ball well. But scored eight out of twelve times every time we started moving it, with Andrysiak at the controls. we'd turn it over." Faust, though, did not attribute 
Senior defensive tackle Eric Dor­Saturday' offensive explosion to sey attributed that fact to Notre Andrysiak alone. Dame's aggressive play, which was "It's probably coincidence that made possible by the success of the our offense got started when it did," Notre Dame offense. he said. "Don't take anything away 
from Terry. He threw well, ran well 
"You have to give our offense and ran the club well. He did a super credit," noted Dorsey. "The more job." the offense stayed on the field, the Irish co-captain Allen Pinkett, more intensity we had to hit McCal-another major factor in the offense's. lum. I have to give him credit, he's a success, agreed with Faust's assess­great running back. But he took ment. some good hits out there today, and "I think (Andrysiak) was in the not many backs in the nation could right place at the right time," said keep from fumbling." Pinkett. "Our offense just woke up. 
EXTRA POINTS-Notre We knew if we let Navy keep build­Dame's 544 yards of total offense ing its confidence, it would be a long was the most ever by a Faust-evening. But I think our offense coached team. . . Pinkett has would have done the same even if broken the 100-yard barrier in all Beuerlein would have stayed in." four of his games against Navy. He Irish offensive guard and co­gained 129 yards in '82, 121 in '83, captain Tim Scannell was not as and 165 in '84... The Irish have held-back in his praise for now won their fifth straight home Andrysiak's performance. game for the first time since the final "Things worked with him in two games of the '81 season and the there," said the senior lineman. first three a.unes of the '82 "When he came in, he was a catalyst, 
""' Notre Dame and St. Marys 1
I·----------~-----~-------,
I Starving Student I 1 Discount Coupon 10% OFF I 
I 14k Italian Gold and Sterling Silver I I Chains, Charms, Bracelets & Rings 1 I Studel'!ts ""rt Staff must present this Couoon or ID 11 'for 10 I Off. Offer Good Through I 
November30, 1985. 
I Great American Jewelers II University Park Mall -On The Concourse II Checks Welcome • VIsa (directly In front of Browns Sporting Goods) I Mastercard • American Express ( l) II Christmas Layaways 2 9 277_3353 
·-------------------------~ 
Are you considering professional school? 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF .GOVERNMENT 
Is Looking for future Leaders in Public Affairs. 
Come Learn About Harvard's Two-Year Master's · Program in Public Policy, Leading to either the Master in Public Policy or City and Regional Planning Degree. 
SALLY SACHAR MEET WITH: Assistant to the Director Public Policy Program 
DATE: Wednesday, Nov. 6, 2-3, 3-4 groups 
CONTACT: YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE 
All Students, All Majors, All Years Welcome! Joint Degree Programs Offered with Harvard's other Professional Schools. Generous Cross-Registration Privileges with other Schools. 

The Obocrver/Paut Cilwelli 
Navy tailback Napoleon McCallum carries for McCallum alsofumbled three times, directly result­some ofhis 124 yards Saturday against the Irish.· ing in three Notre Dame touchdowns. 
he got things going. I can:t say passing continued. When I came in waiting a long time for an oppor­enough about the job he did." the first offense was looking for an tunity. l've worked pretty hard. 
As for Andrysiak himself, he was answer. They were really pepped­"The way (Irish Quarterback happy with his performance, but dis­up, trying to make it work." Coach Ron Hudson) described it, I sapointed that it had no bearing on Andrysiak did make things work, thought I had the job if I went in and who would start against Mississippi. but Beuerlein will remain the starter did well. I was a little dissapointed 
"I was nervous going in, but it was as long as he is healthy. (in Faust's announcement that a great way to get my feet wet," said "I was preparing all week as a pos­Beuerlein will start Saturday.) I Andrysiak, a native of Allen Park, sible starter," Andrysiak said when thought this was a golden oppor­Mich. "Before my first pass, I had asked about Faust's decision to start tunity to win the job. l think I did butterflies and they never left. I did, Beuerlein. "Until Friday morning, I well, but what can you do? I've just however, get more confident as my thought I would start. I've been got to put on the chinstrap." 

' 

cordially invites Seniors  
on  to the University Club, Upper Lounge Thursday, November 7th at 6:00p.m.  
Meet about  our your  executives arid en;oy refreshments. Tell us career goals and hear about the exciting  

Executive Development Program at Lord·& Taylor, America's leading fashion specialty store. Even if you have not previously thought of retailing as a career, you may want to know about the many interesting opportunities at Lord & Taylor. If you have proven abilities and a record of achievement, and look forward to the challenge of running a profit.able ..._______ business, Lord & Taylor looks forward to meeting you.-------~ 

The Observer Monday, November 4, 1985 -page 13 
Bears use the 'Fridge to beat the Packers, 16-10 

Allsoclated Pre811 
The Chicago Bears got a vintage 
performance from veteran Walter 
Payton and a bonus from William 
"The Refrigerator" Perry to beat 
Green Bay 16-10 yesterday for their 
ninth straight National Football 
League victory. 
Payton rushed for 192 yards, in­cluding a 27-yard scamper for a key fourth-quarter touchdown, while Perry, a rookie defensive lineman who weighs over 300 pounds, caught his first TO pass In the NFL as the Bears remained the only un­beaten team in the league. 
Perry gained national attention two weeks ago when he ran for a touchdown, also against Green Bay. The 4-yard toss from quarterback Jim McMahon Sunday came with 25 seconds left in the second quarter and gave the Bears a 7-3lead. 
'Ille Packers entered the final quarter with a I 0-7 lead, but the Bears narrowed the margin with a safety bc.>fore Payton's game-winning run. 
Giants 22, Bucs 20 
Eric Schubert, just signed this week, kicked five field goals and Joe Morris rushed for a career-best 132 yards and a touchdown as the Giants came alive in the second half to down Tampa Bay, handing the Buc­caneers their ninth straight loss. 
Schubert, who until this week was an assistant coach at a New Jersey high school earning $1,000 for the season, hit from 24, 36, 24, 41 and . 33 yards as New York overcame a 13-6 halftime deficit to raise its record to 6-3. The five field goals were one short of the Giants team record set byJoe Danelo in 1981. 
Vikings 16, Lions 13 
Jan Stenerud kicked three field goals, including a 28-yarder as time expired, lifting Minnesota over Detroit. 
Stenerud had missed a 37-yarder with 4: 12 to play before his winning kick, which was set up by Darrin Nelson's 21-yard punt return and 
Nelson's 23-yard run. Nelson ran for a career-high 122 yards. Minnesota had taken a 13-3 lead 
5:37 into the third quarter before the Lions stormed back to tie it on a one-yard TO plunge by quarterback Joe Ferguson and a 20-yard field goal by Ed Murray with 11:46 to play. 
Bengals 2 3, Bills 1 7 
Boomer Esiason threw for two touchdowns and fullback Larry Kin­nebrew rumbled for another as Cin­cinnati erased a 10-point deficit and beat Buffalo. 
Esiason, the American Football Conference's highest-rated passer, threw a 68-yard scoring bomb to rookie Eddie Brown and a 22-yard touchdown toss to tight end M.L. harris as the Bengals improved their record to 4-5. 
Aside from Esiason's 1 1 comple­tions in 21 attempts for 193 passing yards, the Bengals also got 128 rus­hing yards from Larry Kinnebrew in handing Buffalo its eighth loss in nine games. 
~--------------------~--~~---------. 
The season's best Is now on sole at NuVIslon. 
Get all the sensational fall looks and save up to $40. Tailored, daring, festive, casual ...you'll find all the newest shapes and shades for anytime of the day or night. Pierre Cardin, Polo, Sophia LDren, Yves St. Laurent ...a knockout selection of designer nome frames to choose from. 

Seahawks 33, Raiders 3 
Cornerback Terry Taylor raced back a pass interception 75 yards and blocked a field goal attempt that teammate Byron Walker returned 56 yards for another score as Seattle exploded for 23 points in the second quarter and beat the Raiders. 
Dave Krieg passed for two touch­downs for the Seahawks, who snapped their own two-game losing streak and broke a five-game Raiders' winning streak. 
Rams 28, Saints 10 
Dieter Brock passed for 256 yards and two touchdowns as the Rams bounced hack from their first loss of the season to beat the Saints. 
The Los Angeles defense sacked New Orleans quarterback Dave Wil­son nine times, with GaryJeter, Den­nis Harrison and Shawn Miller each logging two. 
The Rams' Eric Dickerson, who shattered 0.). simpson's NFL single­season rushing record In 1984, gained 108 yards on 23 carries, just the second time he's been over 100 yards this season. He left the game late in the fourth quarter with an ankle injury. 
Steelers 1 0, Browns 9 
Gary Anderson kicked a 25-yard field goal with nine seconds to play as Pittsburgh edged Cleveland In a driving rain to extend a 16-Sc:ason stadium jinx over the Browns. 
The Browns, falling Into a tie with the Steelers, 4-5, for the American Conference Central Division lead, have not won In Pittsburgh since Three Rivers Stadium was opened In 1970. The last Browns' victory came in 1969, when the Steelers played In Pitt Stadium. 
Oilers 23, Chiefs 20 
Tony Zendejas kicked a 38-yard field goal with 14 seconds to play to give Houston a tight victory over Kansas City and a share of the AFC Central Division lead. 

Fullback Roger Craig was a key figure in the 49er's 24-13 win over the Eagles yesterday 

Rbbie Hoffman: 
During the seventies. under the alias, Barry Freed. Hoffman stopped the Rrmy Corps of Engipeers from destroying the lakes in upper new York. A radical in the sixties, seventies--and as you'II see in 3 days, a radical in the eighties. 
-----T e Fut re Pe actives Series 


(([(((({00 

The Observer Monday, November 4, 1985 -page 14 
Flanner, Alumni advance in lnterhall playoffs 
Thr l.lbKrvrr/Paul C.ifanlli 

said Flanner captain Tom Sullivan,
By MICHAEL KEEGAN "but when we had to play hard we
Sports Writer 
did. We came up with the key defensive stands when we needed
Even though the Interhall football them. I must also credit our defense
season is coming to an end, the level with a strong game. They kept us in
of intensity has anything but died down. The two quarterfinal contests it to the end." played this weekend were proof of ,. this. In two hard-fought games, Flan­ner snuck by Stanford 8-7, and Alumni edged Howard 12-10. 
In the opening contest at Stepan Field, Flanner defeated Stanford in a game that could have been classified as two different games instead of two different halves. The opening halfbelonged to Stanford's combina­tion of strong defense and powerful offense, while the second half showed some creative play calling and gutsy play on the part ofFlanner. 
Stanford oi>ened the scoring with an impressive first quarter drive which featured a few short passes and ended with a short run by Joe Davey. With the ensuing extra point, Flanner quickly trailed by seven points. During the rest of the first half, Stanford thwarted any attempt by Flanner's offense to score while their own offense ran up and down the field. Even though Stanford produced a lot of offense, their first quarter score proved to be their only one ofthe game. 
In the second half, the previously stagnant Flanner team came to life. After a fumble recovery, their of­fense turned to some trick plays that eventually resulted in a touchdown. On a third down play, Flanner ran a reverse accounting for 30 yards. On the very next play, they called a 
they were going to play it simple. with a touchdown of their own as We handled their game plan well, quarterback Ken Schuermann con­but Flanner's execution of a few nected with Paul Laughlin following 
trick plays toward the end did us in." a 45-yard penalty on Howard's 
In the second game between defense. The extra point attempt, Alumni and Howard, hard hitting however, was blocked. Howard and some clutch passing and receiv-stretched its lead to four points with 
halfback pass to Dave Kelly for 23 Stanford Hall's Vince Caluori carries the ball tbe Interball jbotball playoffs. Flanner defeated yards and a score. Following the against Planner's Frank Liggio in thefirst round of Stanford, 8-7, and will take on Grace next Sunday. 
touchdown, Timmy Arnold streaked around end for a two-point conver­Bill Jolley, Stanford's captain, ing.propelled Alumni to victory. sion which put Flanner ahead to believes his team played extremely The game was a see-saw battle stay. well in losing. from the beginning to the end. 
The rest ofthe half was all defense. "Today was the best game we Howard began the day in impressive On Stanford's last drive, Flanner's have played all year," said jolley. fashion. On their opening drive, a Dave Kelly interceoted a pass to seal "Everyone gave his all. I give credit first-down reverse play went for a 30 the victory. to (Fianner) because they did what yard touchdown and a 7-0 score. But 
"It seems that they outplayed us," they had to to beat us. Flanner said in the second half, Alumni answered 
SMC soccer team blanks Loyola 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team defeated the Loyola (Chicago) soc­cer club 7-0 Saturday at Angela Field. 
The competition marked the end of the season for the Belles, who finished the season with a record of 5-9. 
Saint Mary's played an aggtessive game, esj:>ecially in the first half when it scored six ofits seven goals. 
Senior Sue Schier! started things off when she put in a shot seven minutes into the game. Schier! matched that goal minutes later off an assist by junior Mary Anne Perri. 
Sophomore Karen Chandler made it 3-0 on an unassisted tally, and freshman Theresa Harrington regis­tered the next two goals. Harrington scored her first goal on a free kick and was assisted on her second goal by freshman Sarah Creech. 
Perri scored the sixth goal for the Belles and was assisted on the play by Schier!. The team's final goal came towards the end of the game when Schier! came across the middle to put in the score and com­plete the hat trick. 
Belles' Head Coach john Akers 
was pleased with the team's strong 
performance, particularly in the first 
halfof the game. 
"I was glad to see us end the 
season with such a good game. We 
played the kind of soccer we're 
capable of playing, and we worked 
well together as a team, especially in 
the first half. It was good to finish on 
a positive note," Akers said. 
Akers attributed much of the 
team's recent success to assistant a late second quarter field goal. 
The second half belonged to both team's tenacious defenses. Alumni scored the only points of the half as Schuermann again hit Laughlin for a 10yard score to give Alumni a 12-10 lead. Again, the extra point was muffed. 
On their last possession, Howard came inches short of advancing to the semi-finals. Starting with poor field possession, Howard decided to air it out.. They initially threw short, but with time running out, Tom Pas­sinault, Howard's top receiver, grabbed a long bomb. Just when it looked as though he would scamper the last 25 yards for the touchdown, Joe Dearie, an Alumni defensive back, made a diving, game-saving tackle. With almost no time left, Howard tried to win on a 35 yard field goal. As the ball flew threw the air, six anonymous Alumni residents stood below the goal posts and trie to jinx the ball which fell inches short. A belated fun bunch embrace followed as the six began to celebrate. 
"We all felt extremely lucky to have won this game," said Joe Puetz "Our defense bent all day, but it never broke. They really beat them­selves because of all the penalties. If they had not received a five yard penalty before their final field goal attempt, it would have been good by a couple ofyards. 
"When it counted, we played har­der than they did," continued Puetz. "The game was physical to the end, and our players withstood the chal­lege. In addition to the great play of Laughlin and Schuermann, Chad Smith ran extremely well while the whole defense as a unit should be given credit. (Bill) Smith came up with a crucial fumble recovery, and Dearie made the tackle that preserved our victory." 
"We played inconsistently," added freshman linebacker Mark Gibbs, "but in the end we were tough when we needed to be." 
"We could have cleaned a few more clocks," added nosegaurd jim Gero jokingly,"but we ran out of time." 
Next Sunday, Alumni will meet Sorin, and Flanner will meet Grace on Cartier Field in the semi-finals. Both Sorin and Grace received first­round byes due to their regular season finishes. The winners ofthese games meet in two weeks for the In­terhall championship. 


Study around the world, visiting Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt, Turkey, Greece and Spain. Our 100 day voyages sail in January and September offering 12-15 transferable hours of credit from more than 50 voyage~related courses. The S.S. UNIVERSE is a 500 passenger American~ built ocean liner, registered in Liberia. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. 
For details call toll-free (800) 854-0195 
or write: Semester at Sea Institute for Shipboard Education University of Pittsburgh, 2EJlbrbes Quadrangle Pittsburgh, PA 15260 
Repre•entative will be on campu• Tue•. Nov. 5th In the InternationalStudentLoungefrom 4:30 -7:!10. Slide •how• at 4:30 & 6:30 In the International Lounge 2nd FloorLaFortune 
coach Eric Evans, a Notre Dame junior. Evans began helping the Belles towards midseason. The team's won-loss record after his ar­rival was 5-3. 
!he varsity team will organize as a club for the indoor season which is scheduled to begin next week. In ad­dition to its practices, the club team will compete in two invitational tournaments. 
The first competition, sponsored by Budweiser, will be held at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee in mid-February. The second tourna­ment, scheduled for Feb. 21-22, is the Saint Mary's Annual Soccer In­vitational for club and varsity teams .. 

THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CAUFORNIA will be on campus 
11/7/85 
to talk about programs atthe GSBA. For schedule and location information, please contact Career Planning ~nd Placement Office. 
THE FUTURE IS IN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS 
A representative wili be ')n campus 
FRIDAY, NOVE;1BER 8, 1 985 
to discuss 
GRADUARSTUDY 
THUNDERBIRD 

1 AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT GLENDALE, ARIZONA 85306 
Interviews may be scheduled at 
?LACEMENT OFFICE 
T0 day______________________
M_o_n_d_ay_._N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_4_._1_9_8_s_-_p_a_g_e_l_5 
Blo 'lffi County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
C'l 1985 Un1versal Press Syndicate 

At the Comedians' Cemetery 

Zeto 


ACROSS 1 Pleased 5 Fragrant 
ointments 10 Singer Lane 14 Davenport's 
state 15 Ryan or Tatum 16 Author Anita 17 Time-wasting 
work 19 Mint 20 Magnifies 21 Make possible 23 Saudi-Arabian 
export 24 Like thorns 25 Lower In value 29 Machine gun 30 Place for a 
parishioner 33 Graven Images 34 Plow Inventor 35 -Grande 36 Hubbubs 37 Enthusiastic 
reviews 
©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc.38 Pooch's name All Rights Reserved 39 Actress Taylor 
to many 40 Parking lot 5 --woogie 
sight 6 Cal. player 41 Loafed 7 Gams 42 Bishopric 8-de mer 43 So be It 9 Pullman cars 44 Electorate 10 Northern 45 Helen of stage highway 
fame 11 Loser's 47 Spoil consolation 48 Conceit 12 Simmer 50 Deportment 13 Medieval serf 55 Deafening 18 Waste product 56 Moonshiner 22-days' 58 Superman's wonder 
Lois 24 Manipulate 59 Privileged a tiller 
class 25 Makes a call 60 Kind of exam 26 Cantoror 61 Uses an abacus Condon 

62 Sublease 27 Tosspot 38 Lard 49 Prod 63 Undercooked 28 Cappand 40 Baseball's 50 Wind spirally Paclno Willie 51 A Stravinsky 
DOWN 29 -deadly sins 41 Actor Peter 52 Uttar Pradesh 1 Heckle 31 Sea duck 44 Rascal region 2 Diving bird 32 Forest 46 Staff members 53 Equipment 3 Army truant 34 Goes out with 47 Dull finish 54 A Gardner 4 Actor Andrews 37 Think back 48 Miss Cinders 57 Corrlda shout 
The Daily Crossword 
Friday's Solution 

Campus 
•12:00 
P.M.-Lecture, "Sentencing", Profes­sor Norvell Morris, University of Chicago, Room 101 Notre Dame Law School, Sponsored by White Center on Law and Government 

• 
3:15P.M.· 6:00P.M.· Lecture, "The Political and Economic Dimensions of Bolivia", James Dunkerly and Kenneth Jameson, Kellogg Fel­lows, Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies 

•6:00 
P.M. · Athletic, Tug · of· war tourna­ment, Outside Dining Halls, Sponsored by t,nited Way Campaign 


.. { l 

•6:00 
P.M.· 7:30P.M. ·Workshop, "Buildin~ Self· Esteem", Dr. Sue Steibe,Jean Badry, Dan Rebek & Matt Milstead, Counseling and Psyc­hological Services Center, Room 300, Coun­seling and Psychological Services Center 

•7:00 
P.M. and 9:00 P.M. · Movie, "Roses in December: The Jean Donovan Story", Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Social Con­cerns Film Series 

•
7:30 P.M. · Meeting and Lecture, "llte MBA Decision: Preparation and Planning", Dean Robert Waddick, College of Arts and Letters, 122 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by Arts and Let­ters Business Society 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Roast Top Round of Beef Pork Fried Rice Hot Dog with Coney Sauce Swiss Cheese Quiche 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
6:30P.M.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
7:00P.M.  16  MASH  
22  Three's Company  
7:30P.M.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP In Cincinnati  
8:00P.M.  16  TV Bloopers  
22  Scarecrow and Mrs. King  
28  Hardcastle and McCormick  
34  Wonderworks  
8:30P.M.  46  Calvary Temple  
9:00P.M.  16  Monday Night at the Movies  
22  Kate and Allie  
28  NFL  Monday  Night  Football:  
Dallas at St. Louis  
34  The Brain  
46  LeseaAilve  

10:00 P.M. 
10:30P.M. ll:OOP.M. 
11:30P.M. 
12:00A.M. 12:30A.M. 
2:00A.M. 

Saint Mary's Specialty Hamburger Turkey Pot Pie Ratatouille Crepes Grilled Liver with Onions 
. ·· ~ 

22 Cagney and Ulcey 34 Heart Care on the Critical list 46 Church Growth International 
46  light and Uvely  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
34  Body Electric  
46  Praise the Lord  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Remington  Steele/CBS  Uite  

Movie: "Blume In Love" 
3 Film Du Jour: "Charlie Chaplin Carnival" 28 Newswatch 28 16 David Letterman 28 ABC News Nightline 22 Nightwatch 46 Independent Network News 

ntal Express Restaurant 
Chinese, Vietnamese & American Food Dining Room and Carry Out 
~... 632~U?~s:t~zmg~s ~\0~ 
Just West ofUniversity Park Mall b.."~ on State Road 23, Next to Kroger ~ 
Mon. 8t Weds.10"/.off withdinlngroomcoupononly 
···············-·············· 

Monday, November 4, 1985-page 16
S~orts 
Notre Dame cruises to 41-17 victory over Middies 
Offense rolls up 544 yards; Pinkett: 161 yards, 3 TDs 
By LARRY BURKE yards -the final carry a two-yard AssistantSportsEditor touchdown run · as the Irish drove ""'0 ~ ard· in nine plap to tie the 
Notre Dame's "Turnaround '85" score. continued in fine style Saturday af­Andrysiak picked up where he left ternoon, but this time there was a off on the next Irish possession, new twist. which started at the Notre Dame 42 
Yes, Allen Pinkett had another after Navy's gamble on a fourth-and­solid game, picking up 161 yards and four play backfired. Andrysiak drove three touchdowns on 27 carries to the offense 58 yards in five plays for outduel Navy's heralded Napoleon the go-ahead touchdown, with McCallum, and yes, the Irish defense freshman wideout Mark Green's 40­held the opponent to just 17 points. yard scamper on a reverse setting up But when the curtain went down on the score. Notre Dame led 13-7, as Notre Dame's 41-17 win over Navy, John Carney's extra point attempt the center of everyone's attention was wide. was Terry Andrysiak, a sophomore "I was surprised that they (Navy) backup quarterback who is playing went for it (on fourth and four)," more and more like a first-stringer said Irish inside linebacker Tony each week. Furjanic. "They ran a sweep, but 
Andrysiak connected on 11 of 1 7 before the play started I didn't feel passes for 195 yards and a touch­they would make it." down, as his mobile quarterbacking A 4 3-yard Pinkett run set up Notre style proved extrmemely effective Dame's third touchdown late in the against the Midshipmen. second quarter. The senior t'llilback 
"Terry's the type of quarterback cut through a hole on the left side, that is good on rollout passes and picked up a key downfield block bootlegs -outside runs with no from Green and streaked down to protection," said· senior offensive the Navy four-yard line. Fullback guard and co-captain Tim Scannell. Frank Starns bulled over the left side "He's got good feet and good ath­for the points and 20-10 Notre Dame letic ability, so those kinds of plays lead. are his forte. We just took advantage At the end of the first half the ofit." clock finally did what the Navy 
Despite the sophomore's success, defense could not do -stop Head Coach Gerry Faust insisted Andrysiak and the Irish. Notre Dame that juniorSteve Beuerlein would be was looking for a fourth touchdown the starting quarterback next week with a first-and-goal at the Navy four­when Notre Dame plays host to Mis­yard line, but a shortage of time and sissippi. Beuerlein has been the timeouts cost the Irish some points. starter in 27 of the last 29 Notre Notre Dame had used two of its Dame games. timeouts earlier in the half, and 
When Andrysiak entered the spent its final one with 15 seconds game late in the first quarter, Notre left. After Andrysiak's pass for Tim Dame was trailing Navy, 7-0. When Brown was incomplete on first he left the game eight possessions down, Pinkett slipped in the back­later in the early fourth quarter, the field on a second-down carry and Irish had a 34-1 0 lead. What hap­the Irish were unable to stop the pened in between was an impressive clock in time to get offanother play. display of big-play offense and hard­But that mix-up was over­hitting defense by the Irish. shadowed by Andrysiak's success as 
Navy jumped out to a 7-0 first well as the play ofthe Irish defense. quarter lead with quarterback Bill Andrysiak drove the Irish to two Byrne leading a 74-yard drive that more touchdowns in the second culminated In a one-yard Napolean half The first was a 29-yard sprint by McCallum touchdown run. At that Pinkett, and the second was a 48­point it looked as ifit might be a long yard touchdown pass to flanker Tim day for Notre Dame, as Navy's Byrne Brown. On that play, the sophomore. was completing some long passes wideout grabbed Andrysiak's pass and the Irish were struggling of­and broke free from several Navy fensively with Steve Beuerlein at the tacklers on his way to the end zone. helm. Brown had the best day among 
But enter Andrysiak, whose Irish receivers, catching five passes presence on the field had a for 1 1 l yards. rejuvenating effect on the entire of­"The ·Notre Dame defense, fense. The sophomore quarterback meanwhile, gave up a lot ofyards but completed three passes for 32 yards, 
see IRISH, page 12
and Pinkett rushed four times for 25 


I 

Burke details the game in his story at left while Dennis Corrigan examines the quarterback situa· tion below. 
Andrysiak the key to Irish win, but Beuerlein will remain starter 
ByDENNIS CORRIGAN "Steve Beuerlein is our starting wait until Thursday to see if Beuer­
Sports Writer quarterback," said Faust after the lein would be okay." 
game. With the offense adjusted to take 
Things were looking as bleak as According to Faust, Beuerlein was advantage of his mobility, Andrysiak 
the sky for Notre Dame late in the still feeling the effects of a shoulder was able to direct the Irish to 544 
first quarter in Saturday's game injury he sustained last week against net yards of offense. He completed 
against Navy. With starting quarter­USC and was unable to practice until 11 of 1 7 passes for 195 yards and 
back Steve Beuerlein at the helm, Thursday. On Friday, Faust decided one touchdown, that being a 43­
the offense had sputtered, turning to play Beuerlein for the first few yard pass to Tim Brown, who broke 
over the ball twice in its first thre.e series and then insert Andrysiak. several tackles en route to the 
possessions. Worse, the Irish were endzone. 
trailing the Midshipmen 7-0. "I called both of the quarterbacks Andrysiak was aided all afternoon 
But with the ball at the Irish 30' into my office separately on Friday by spectacular catches from Brown, 
yard line and 1:23 remaining in the and told them the situation," said Reggie Ward and the rest of the 
first quarter, Notre Dame Head Faust. "They both understood the receiving corps. 
Coach Gerry Faust sent second-team situation. Usually if one of our guys 
quarterback Terry Andrysiak into misses practice, we let the other guy In the second quarter, Andrysiak 
the game. The rest, as they say, was play. tied the Notre Dame record for con­
history. "But we wanted ( Beuerlein) in for secutive pass completions held by 
Andrysiak promptly led the Irish the first few series to see if (Navy) Angelo Bertelli and Joe Montana on 
on a nine-play scoring drive to tie changed anything. He's a got a lot of a 16-yard completion to a diving 
the game. In Notre Dame's next two defensive checks, and Steve's got Ward. The 10 completions came 
possessions, Andrysiak fashioned about 27 starts. We wanted his ex­over the the course of his play 
touchdown drives of 58 and 75 perience in there. We told Terry he against Purdue, USC and Navy. 
yards to give the Irish a 20-1 0 would go in on either the third or With Frank Starns, one-yard score 
halftime lead on the way to a 41-1 7 fourth series. in the second quarter, Andrysiak had 
victory. guided the Irish to touchdowns the 
Meanwhile, people were calling Faust did say that the coaches last five series he had run the of­
Andrysiak the next Notre Dame changed the offt;nsive game plan for fense. For the ~eason. the Irish have 
savior, envisioning him as the starter Andrysiak. 
for the remainder of the season. "We planned a roll-out type of­see ANDRYSIAK, page 12Sorry, folks. fense," Faust noted. "We couldn't 
Irish hockey team sweeps Kent St. 
By Bll.L IRVIN power-play goal. Tim O'Neill tied Danny Abraham got the call for the 
Sports Writer the game for the Flashes at 4:09 of Flashes. The offensive action was 
the stanza before Dave Tonna put hectic, as Notre Dame jumped to an 
"Go east, young men!" That's a Kent State on top with a power-play early 3-0 lead. 
piece of advice which proved to be goal at 5:16. 
Freshman Brian Montgomery gothighly appropriate for the Notre The Irish, however, responded on the Irish on top just 2:21 into theDame hockey team which returned their own power play a little over game. Whitmore set him up in fronthome from a disastrous 0-4 Alaskan five minutes later when Tim Reilly of the net, and the rookie centertrip to host Kent State Friday and set up Tom Mooney. Steve fired the puck home. ChapmanSaturday night. The Irish opened Whitmore closed out the scoring in made it 2-0 with an unassistedtheir home schedule with a 4-3 tri­the middle period when he tallied at power-play goal at 6:04. Waldbilligumph Friday and then cranked up 11:20. Greg Duncan and Dave took the unassisted route at 9:46 tothe offense to best the Golden Waldbillig picked up assists on the give the Irish a three-goal lead·Flashes 8-5 Saturday. Irish scoring play. 

before Kevin Harkonen pulled KentThe Friday game began as a After Kent State's Marty Schuette State to within two with his power­defensive duel with neither team evened the score at 1:55 of the final' play success at 14:12.

scoring in the first period. Referee frame, Brent Chapman popped in Doug Winston whistled seven the game-winner, aSsisted by In the second period, Kent State 
Thr Obol~rvrr/ Anrh' Sandlrr 
penalties in the tight-checking Mooney and Reilly, at 2:09. The Irish sandwiched goals by Tqm Carlson frame. defense cracked down, and Notre and Tonna arouml Notre Dame 
Senior co-captain Bob Thebeau returned to action this weekend Notre Dame finally broke the ice Dame took it, 4-3. tallies bv ri.kh Sobilo and Mark An-as the Irish swept two games from Kent State. Bill Irvin recaps this at 1:53 of the second period when On Saturday night, Marc Guay ~ee HOCI<F.Y, page 11
weekend's actton in bts story at right. Mike McNeill scored an unassisted started in goal for the Irish while 






