-~-----------~---­
Senate restructuring plan -page 7 


1st hurdle cleared: Senate approves new constitution 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI "They couldn't vote because they StaffReporter didn't have the power," said Ginty. Last week the senate voted to ex­
A new student government con­tend its term two weeks beyond the stitution was approved by the Stu­scheduled April 1 changeover. dent Senate last night, despite 
The student government consti­arguments from senators-elect John tution states, "a vote oftwo-thirds ofGinty and K. C. Culum that the sen­all the voting members of the stu­ate was acting without proper au­dent senate" is required to enactthority. 

such a change. Two-thirds of theThe proposed changes must have members present approved the pro­the approval of the Hall Presidents' posal. The proposal, however, didCouncil, which meets tonight~ not receive the votes of two-thirdsIn an 11-2 vote, the senate ap­of the entire senate, which the con­proved the restructuring plan, stitution requires.

which replaces the five district "The interpretation is up to the senators with 24 dorm senators and chair (student body president Rob one off-campus senator. 
Bertino)," said Doug Wurth, execu­The class presidents also would

Last night the studentsenate voted 11 to 2 infa­
tive coordinator. Bertino inter­vor of the new government constitution. Here, be removed from the senate, and the preted the constitution to allow for senators-electjohn Ginty and K.C. Culum debate 
Hall Presidents' Council would lose the extension, thus sparking theits vote. In addition, the Student Ac­controversy.
tivities Board Manager, the Judicial Jim Domagalski, sophomore classCoordinator, and the Freshman Ad­
Students across the nation protest 
president, and Dean Christy, seniorvisory Council President would lose class president, opposed the deci­their positions on the senate. 

sion. "The senate misinterpreted theVice President-elect Duane


CIA recruiting, foreign espionage 
rules~ You have to live by the rulesLawrence said he is pleased with the written down," Domagalski said. 

constitution the senate passed last By RAY MULERA arrived protesters held a mock trial date set for CIA recruiters to return. night. He said such a restructured Culum noted that it has been the 
News Staff and found the CIA guilty of sub­She said she does not expect trouble senate could accomplish much. policy of the senate to use the inter­versive acts in Nicaragua and El Sal-· in relation to future CIA visits, add­
The meeting was sparked with pretation Bertino set down. Will a possible future visit to the vador. ing that students may be concerned controversy as Ginty argued that the "Precedence was set, but it may
Notre Dame campus by Central In­The agents were then followed with problems on which they place present Student Senate had ex­have been wrong. They lose a lot of telligence Agency recruiters be out ofthe building, to their cars, and greater importance. tended their terms improperly and credibility when they don't follow marked by student protests similar down the street. 
thus had no power to act~ "The to those held by other universities Notre Dame Young Democrat 
whole process was invalid," he said.
see CIA, page 5 see SENATE, page 5 
across the country? President Paul Komyatte said, "the 
Students at Michigan, Northwes­evidence is pretty clear the CIA is in­tern, Tufts, and Brown universities volved in a silent war." In light ofthe have greeted CIA recruiters with evidence, Komyatte favors 

Kempton busted with Rockne bust 
protests and threats in recent demonstrations against the CIA. months. Young Republican President John These protests center around the Husmann would not comment on By mERESA GUARINO police he had permission to take the the bust was taken from the ACC, 

agency's involvement in destabiliz­his views. 
ing the governments of foreign na­Notre Dame director of Career 
tions, especially in Latin America. and Placement Services, Kitty Ar­
Students at the University of nold, said the CIA has been visiting 
Michigan took over a classroom in the campus for "a number of years", 
which the CIA was scheduled to give most recently last fall. 
a presentation. When the recruiters Arnold said there is currently no 
McDonald's delivery service begins without approval 
By TRACY SCHINDELE beverages is not included in the News Staff grocery service. "We are trying to keep this very 
The Campus Airlift, which controlled. We have limited the operates without official University amount of items offered and have approval, is a fast food and grocery provided a separate phone line for 
delivery service operated by the the service," said Charles Watson, Roseland McDonald's. The service 
owner of the Roseland McDonalds. 

began last Thursday. Watson said he obtained permis­
sion to deliver on campus through 

McDonald's employees Greg Wat­campus security. Although the son and Carsten Schimdt deliver delivery service has been in opera­preordered McDonald's~ items, as tion since Thursday, neither Direc­
well as miscellaneous groceries, on tor of Student Activities Joni Neal Thursday and Friday evenings to the nor Vice-President for Business Af­back door of Keenan and Stanford fairs Thomas Mason was familiar halls. 
with the service. The McDonald's items average ap­"I don't think student affitirs proximately 30 cents above normal would have approved this. If prices to include tax and delivery McDonalds is going to deliver, they 
expenses. The Airlift also offers a must make their service available to grocery service, designed to include all students in all dorms," said Neal. products ranging from toothpaste to Greg Watson indicated the 
ser­potato chips. The delivery of alcoholic see AIRLIFT, page 4 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
A bust of Notre Dame football great Knute Rockne was confiscated from Irish basketball center Tim Kempton, after the breakup of several post-dance parties at the Americana Hotel Saturday night. 
Three Notre Dame students were arrested for violating state liquor laws (related story, below). Many other students were asked by hotel security officers to leave the hotel, after hotel guests complained to the management about noise. 
Most students had attended the formal sponsored by Lyons, Badin and Keenan halls in the Century Center that night. 
Kempton was stopped by a South Bend police officer when he got off the elevator in the hotel lobby. The officer called Notre Dame security, who came to the Americana. Kempton said he was holding the bust for a friend, Dave Robinson, a senior from St. Edward's Hall. 
"I was up in the room that the bust was in," said Kempton. "When they broke up the party, I was bringing it down to the car." 
Kempton claims he "never had possession" ofthe bust, and was only c~rying it for Robinson. "I have no idea where the bust came from," he said. "I had nothing to do with it." 
University Security Director Glenn Terry said Robinson, a manager of the basketball team, told 
bust from a storage room in the ACC. When contacted by The Observer, Robinson refused to com­
ment~ 

Kempton and Robinson were both questioned by security officers and police, but neither was arrested. Terry said Kempton told Officer Eugene Eyster of the South Bend Police Department that "he was with someone else, who said he had permission to have it." 
Terry said he was unsure of how and an investigation is underway. 
The bust of Rockne is hollow, weighs approximately 75 pounds, and is about two feet tall. Its worth is estimated at 5500. 
When reached for comment at the NCAA Final Four in Lexington, Ky., Notre Dame Basketball Coach Dig­ger Phelps refused to comment. 
Both Kempton and Robinson are being referred to John Goldrick, as­sociate vice president for residence life. 


Students arrested at hotel after formal on Saturday 
By THERESA GUARINO The four were attending a SaintMary's ExecutiveEditor party in the Americana after a for­mal sponsored by Badin, Lyons, 
Three Notre Dame students and Keenan halls. were arrested for public in­Lt. Norval Williams of the toxication at the Americana South Bend Police Department, Hotel after attending Saturday on duty at the hotel that night, night's formal at Century Center. said students had reserved 15 to 
18 rooms, and were concen­The students -Matthew Roy of trated in one corridor. 
Alumni Hall, David Cosgrove of After rece1vmg complaints Morrissey Hall, and Sean Madden about noise from other hotel resi­of Dillon Hall -were taken to St. dents, Williams went to tell the Joseph County Jail, where they students to quiet down. were released on bond. Cosgrove Students did not hold down also was charged with criminal the noise level, however, and all trespass. David Carrigan, from were asked to leave. The four stu­Shepherd, Mich., was also ar­dents arrested "got out of hand," rested. according to Williams. 
The Observer Tuesday, April 2, 1985 -page 2 


In Brie£ 
Lose a glove this winter? How about a scarf! Or hat? Then stop by the Lost and Found Office in the Notre Dame Administration Building. The winter clothes are piling up and will be donated to charity if not claimed soon. The office, located on the north end ofthe first floor, is open 9 a.m. to 4:30p.m. ·TheObseroer 
Saint Mary's science hallhas received a S20,000 contribution from Indiana Bell, College President john Duggan has announced. The donation will be used toward planned improve· ments and additions to the science facility. Indiana Bell also contrib· uted S23,000 to Cushwa·l..eighton Library, built in 1981. The donation Is part of the College's $2 S million fund-raising campaign, EXCEL: The Fund for Saint Mary's College. ·The Obseroer 
The Reagan administrationsaid yesterday that Japan has made "new commitments on trade issues," but officials indicated there is still no agreement on efforts to persuade the japanese to open their markets to U.S. goods. On Capitol Hill, mean· while, angry legislators were preparing legislation that would impose quotas and tariffs on Japanese products coming into the United States if Japan does not lower trade barriers. President Reagan met at the White House with two envoys he sent to Tokyo over the weekend in a last-ditch attempt to prod Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and other officials into making trade concessions. Last year, japan sent the United States nearly S37 bil· lion more in goods than it imported, and some members ofCongress are criticizing the administration for not doing enough to end the imbalance. ·AP 
The Justice Department said yesterday it is making headway in busting narcotics rings, but a high-ranking offi· cial said authorities are weighing a tougher stance toward individual drug users. Deputy Associate Attorney General Charles Blau said that despite cooperative law enforcement efforts which have produced some I, I SO indictments since mid-1983, "people out there are using drugs, and we have not broken that curve." Blau, who oversees the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force Pro· gram in 13 regions ofthe country, noted that authorities have zeroed in on a supply-side enforcement strategy, going after importers, dis· tributors, wholc:salers and retailers. -AP 
Indiana House Speaker J. Roberts Dailey surprised his colleagues last night when he announced he was hand· ing down the lottery resolution for a vote. Before the lawmakers had a chance to blink, the Muncie Republican lowered the boom. "April Fool!" he chortled. Dailey, a staunch opponent of lotteries and any other form ofgambling, has used his position as speaker to prevent a House vote on a proposed constitutional amendment to lift Indiana's ban on lotteries in past sessions. This year, he said he would not stand in the way ofa vote. But the issue still never made it to the full House because it was killed in the House Commerce Committee. Dailey's practical joke on his 99 colleagues was the only funny busi· ness in the House on the last day for acting on Senate bills. -AP 

Of Interest 
The Notre Dame Glee Clubwillbeperforming a selection of modern and traditional music in its annual spring con· cert tomorrow. Tickets for the concert, which will be in Washington Hall at 8:1 S p.m., will be available at the Washington Hall Box Office from 3 to 6 p.m. today. As usual, there will be no charge for admis· sion, but patrons will be allowed no more than two tickets each. Any remaining tickets will be distributed at the door.. The Obseroer 

Weather 

Sunny and mildtor a change with a high in the middle and upper 40s. Tempera· tures will dip into the 30s tonight. Sun and tern· peratures in the SOs and 60s predicted for tomorrow.· 
The Observer 
lbe O~rver (USPS W9 ..!·4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. exc~pt during ~xam and vacation periods. lbe O~er is published by the students of the University of Notre D-Ame and Saint Mary's Colkg~. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( 520 per se· mest~r) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
lbe Observer Is a m~mber of lbe A.Modated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor.............................. Paul Bruce VesignAssistant........Jane Anne Riedford Layout Staff....................... Melissa Warnke Typesel/ers ............. Mary Ellen Harrington 
Tracy Bringardner News Editor .............................Scott Bearby Copy Editor................................ Miriam Hill Sports Copy Editor ................. Marty Burns Viewpoint Copy Editor......... Cindy Boyle Viewpoint Layout.. .......... Melissa Warnke Features Copy Editor............ Teresa Keefe Features Layout ............. Catherine Coffey NV Day Edttor........................ Aimee Sturin Slltc Day Editor...............Toni Rutherford Ad Design ..................Anne Marie Furleigb 
Usa Marie Dicllinson Pbotograpber ............................ Nick Griffin 





MTV promised top concert, but who is Tommy Shaw? 
Saturday, the winner of the Millions for MS competi· tion will be announced, and Notre Dame, with an average contribution of 53.29 per student, has a good shot at first place and a free MTV concert. 
But, should Notre Dame win, Madonna won't be dan· cing toward the Golden Dome. And the Boss won't be performing at the ACC. 
The school raising the most money per student in the Millions against MS campaign will be blessed with a free MTV concert by · drumroll please· Tommy Shaw. 
Tommy Shaw, you remember him? He used to play guitar for Styx? 
Well, at least the concert's free. 
When the Millions against MS campaign began, the organizers of the event and the student body in turn were led to believe that the winning school would receive a free MTV concert by a major performer. Ac· cording to Bill Healy, a member of the campaign com· mittee, "we were promised a top five act." 
The winning school will 
receive a free MTV concert, as promised. That concert, however, is one that many 
students  would  term  
mediocre at best.  
Students  entered  the  

competition thinking they were vying for some "dream concert." One widely eire· ulated rumor indicated that the winning school could choose any act to perform at their campus. free. 
MTV never promised the concert of the winner's choice as a grand prize. Nor did they specifically prom· ise Bruce Springsteen or Madonna. In fact, they never 
really promised anything, but allowed the competition to continue for weeks without announcing the prize. 
They captured our interest with talk ofa first-rate act, and only when the campaign was drawing to a close did they tell us what we were competing for. 
Should Notre Dame win the competition, many stu· dents will be disappointed and understandably so. We'll feel like children who were promised bicycles for Christmas and ended up with socks and T-shirts. We'll probably recover from the disappointment, but next year we won't be quite so quick to put our trust in Santa Claus (or MTV). 
MTV was wrong to ask us to compete for an un· specified performer. They should have made the condi· tions of the contest cl<:ar from the onset. Notre Dame, however, has much to be proud of. 
Whether or not Notre Dame wins the competition, the campaign here has brought in more than 520,000 to help eliminate Multiple Sclerosis. A great concert 

Now accepting 
applications for: 
-Photography Editor -Managing Editor -Copy Editor -Section Editors -Business Manager 


Amy Stephan 
Managing Editor 
would be nice, but we all know that's not the point. The purpose ofthe drive was to raise money to fight MS, and in that we suceeded. 
Anyone who has ever seen a television commercial knows the contest was a well-planned tool to inspire us to raise money to fight MS. Contest organizers pitted Notre Dame against a dozen or so rival universities and baited us with promises ofa great concert. 
It worked. Students seemed more than willing to at· tend the various events, and whether their intent was to help win a concert, help 
fight MS, or just have a good time, the reasons for par· ticipating seem somewhat irrevelant. 
Students participated in the events to receive a free concert, which we may or may not win, and indeed, few students probably care to win. They also partici· pated to help fight MS. 
Should Notre Dame take first place in the contest, the fact that we were able to join together in fighting MS will 
almost  certainly  over·  
shadow  the  thrill  of  a  
Tommy  Shaw  concert.  

Those students who attend 
the concert will probably go only because it's free or because it's being filmed by MTV. 
So why not give up a concert that no one much cares about in order to further the real purpose behind the campaign? Why not give up the concert, should Ne win, and donate the money to help fight MS? 
Such a move would make two definite statements. First, we could demonstrate our dedication as a student body to eliminating Multiple Sclerosis. Secondly, we could very effectively express our dissatisfaction with MTV. 
Notre Dame has already done well in its fight against MS. Saturday's announcement of the winning school could give us an opportunity to do even more. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces· sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
• • • new group ••• new group ••• new group • • • 
Thanks to you... • it works ... for ALL OF US u...~w.u 
• CHILDREN OFDIVORCED 
OR DIVORCING PARENTS ••••••
UGLY 
•
DUCKLING meets Thursday 4-5:30 Reat-a-car beginningApril 11 .(or.,.•J 
If interested call Counseling & Psych Services 

Notre Dame • ••••• •• • •• •••• 
Weekend Special 239-6343 
259-8459 • • • new group ••• new group ••• new group ••• 

The 1986 DOME 


Applications are available in the Student Activities Office and must be returned before Easter Break 
The Observer Tuesday, April2, 1985-page 3 
Plagiarism exists, but not severe, claim ND/SMC administrators 

By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
CopyEditor 
Plagiarism. It is defined as the of­fering of another's work as one's own, and it is a problem at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. To what ex­tent it is a problem, however, remains uncertain. 
"There's probably as much plagiarism at Notre Dame as in other universities," said Michael Loux, dean of the College of Arts and Let­ters at Notre Dame. "My guess is that there is some cheating, less than most would claim. It's tough to get statistics though." 
"I have caught it and many of my friends have caught it," said Thomas Bonnell, assistant professor in Saint Mary's English department. "I wouldn't attempt to venture a guess as to how widespread it is, however. There's no way ofknowing." 
Judging from the number of re­ported cases to administrators, plagiarism does not seem to be a sig­nificant problem at either Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
"In the last two to three years we've had about six to seven cases in the freshman writing program," noted Edward Kline, chairman ofthe Notre Dame English department and director of the freshmen writing program. "In three years that I've been chairman ofthe English depart­ment, we've had nothing." 
"I think (plagiarism) happens at all schools, certainly at Saint Mary's," said Susan Vanek. freshman aca­demic counselor at Saint Mary's. "I haven't seen many cases, so perhaps it's not a big problem. I do occasion­

ally  run  into  it,  but  it's  not  
prevalent."  
Plagiarism,  however,  may  be  

more widespread than the number of reported cases seems to indicate. 
According to du Lac, ifa teacher at Notre Dame determines that a stu­dent has plagiarized an assignment, the teacher must take the matter to the Honesty Committee ofhis or her department. Nevertheless, some in­structors choose not to go through this potentially long process, and thus the plagiarism goes unreported. 
"I have a feeling that many profes­sors don't want to deal with the Honesty Committee procedure," said Michael Francis, chairman of the government deparment at Notre Dame. "Professors prefer to settle the matter on their own, which I think is the best way, unless the stu­dent wants to take it to the Honesty Committee." 
At Saint Mary's, although many teachers do inform the freshman academic counselor or the dean of academic affairs when they discover plagiarism, they are not required to do so. 
Instructors who settle the matter on their own-most often do so be­cause they believe that plagiarism is a private matter between student and teacher. They feel they can punish the student adequately with­out involving the administration, thereby allowing the student to be punished without having the inci­dent go on the student's file. 
Instructors also may not report a case ofplagiarism if they believe the student simply forgot to document a source or was unaware ofwhat con­stitutes plagiarism. 
Several steps have been taken by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in or­der to curb the incidence of plagiarism. Teachers, for example, are encouraged to explain to their students what constitutes plagiarism and what the punishment is for the offense. In addition, some professors employ a different approach to solve the problem. 
"When looking up references, stu­dents tend to plagiarize," said Robert Lordi, English professor at Notre Dame. "If I give complete freedom on assignments outside of class, I have a tendency to find plagiarism. I now give my students assignments that don't require them to depend on outside sources. That usually eliminates the possibilities of plagiarism." 
Despite their best efforts to curb the problem, in the end, teachers must rely somewhat on students' in­tegrity not to plagiarize. 
"Individual teachers take the issue seriously, and I hope students take it seriously as a result of the teachers' talking to them about it," said Loux. "I would hope that this being a Cath­olic university and students' being aware of plagiarism, that they wouldn't violate honest practices." 



a 
Cl 
I \ 

An event you won't want to miss. As part of this campus community, your participat­ing Ford dealer will talk with you about the special values available on Ford's 1985 
·-t,I&Ft,loNC 
CO-SPONSOR

S,.UDEM,. 

model cars and trucks. GET OFF TO A GREAT START WITH FORD ON THE 
DATE(S) LISTED 
BELOW! 

THURSDAY, APRIL 18TH FRIDAY,

AC,.IYI71ES 

APRIL 19TH

BOARD 

The Observer 
K. of C. elects officers, describes future goals 
By AIMEE STORIN Other newly elected leaders are: News Staff Deputy Grand Knight Scott Mor­rison, Chancellor Duane Webster, The Notre Dame chapter of !he Recorder james Bleyer, Treasurer Knights of Columbus geared up for Thomas Darrow, Advocate Timothy its 198'5-86 year by electing joseph '!belen and Warden Brian Aquadro. Creely III to the top position of Performing the duties of Inside Grand Knight Guard and Outside Guard are 
In addition to fulfilling !he Grand Robert Walsh and John Rodgers. Knight's role as general overseer, respectively. Creely cited three specific goals for Creely stated !hat "bolstering the !he chapter during his tenure. Ladies of Columbus" by increasing 
their membership is his final goal. All 
"I'd like to work on integrating Catholic Notre Dame and Saint !he Knights with other activities on Mary's women are eligible to join campus, especially charitable the Ladies ofColumbus. groups' activities. Now that we have 
the contract for our building "Right now the officers (of !he 
(located next to the bookstore, on I.adies of Columbus) are all Saint South quad), we have !he freedom Mary's students, which is probably to offer facilities for the events of just a fluke," said Creely. The new 
other campus groups," Creely said. 
officers are: President Ellen Murray. In early March of !his year, the 
Vice President Kathy Bolotin, Trea­building became available to rent, 
surer Patty Mihm, and Secretary subject to the approval of !he AmySeil. Knights, Director of Student Activi­joining Brian St. Clair and Thomas ties joni Neal and Associate Vice Duffy on !he Board ofTrustees of!he President for Residence Ufe john Knights and Ladies of Columbus is Goldrick. William Hickey, director of Univer­"My second goal is both to in­sity Food Services. crease the membership and to raise !he percentage of members actively "He has considerable financial ex­participating," said Creely. At pres­perience," said Creely, commenting ent 2'5 percent of the knights are ac­on Hickey's appointment. "Also, we tive members. don't want to be solely a student or­ganization. (Hickey's position) The officers intend to encourage helps to present somewhat ofa more !he involvement of knights and mature face." ladies in events such as movies and The Knights also announced !hat charity fundraisers. "Last year, Eli Shaheen, benefactor of !he among other things, !he group Knights and Ladies ofColumbus, has raised S500 for !he Corvilla home been elevated to !he position of for !he retarded, and !his year we're Trustee Emeritus. Shaheen's gift of hoping to increase the number of 1!500,000 to the University paid for members involved in these kind~ of the renovation of !he K. of C. build­events, as well as the amount ing, which was formerly !he post of­raised." Creely said. fice. 
familiar with the Campus Airlift. He




Airlift 
said,"Generally we try to maintain some control over who delivers continuedfrom page 1 what on campus." 
vice is just a test. "We got !he idea from !he success of a similar set-up Campus Airlift was brought to the at Indiana University called Fast attention of both Associate Vice Break. If all goes well, we will hire President for Residence Ufe john more people and work several Goldrick and Assistant Vice Presi­nights a week in all !he dorms, in­dent for Student Services Francis cluding Saint Mary's." Cafarelli. They said !hey were not 
Despite !he single delivery site, familiar enough with !he situation or any Notre Dame student may place a !he campus policy on deliveries to phone order for !he service. make a decision. Cafarelli said !he Assistant Director of Student Ac­final decision will most likely be up tivities Paul Matwiy was also un-to Neal. 

r 
r 
By LISA M. BOYKIN 
News Staff 

A chance to study in jerusalem will be offered to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students when !he Uni­versity opens its Ecumenical Insti­tute !here next September. 
The program is open to undergraduates and selected graduate students, and provides the opportunity to spend a semester or an entire year in the Holy Land. 
"It is at Father Hesburgh's request !hat !he program was initially con­sidered," according to Charles Grubert, assistant to !he director of 
Tuesday, April 2, 1985 -page 4 
I. 

Not a Venice canal 

A LaSalle firefighter transports a family from easterly winds off the lake sent waters pounding their Monroe County, Michigan home near Lake over breakwalls. Erie. The area was hit by floods 3-Jeet deep when 
New Jerusalem program offered 

!he foreign study programs. 
The program includes courses in comparative religions, Christianity, Judaism, Islam, biblical studies, ar­chaeology, contemporary Middle East politics, and introductory He­brew and Arabic. 
"Right now, six out of 12 courses offered to undergraduates are theol­ogy courses," commented Grubert. 
The campus is located on Tantur hill, along the main road from jerusalem to Bethlehem, and con­sists of small stone buildings sur­rounded by olive and pine trees. Campus facilities include a lecture hall, a 50,000-volume library, semi­nar rooms, a dining room, a chapel, common rooms, and a tennis court. 
Professors from American, Canadian, Israeli, and Arab univer­sities will staff the program at Tan­tur. 
Grubert said, "Adequate precautions have a:ready been taken" to prevent security prob­lems, especially since the program "has been in existence as a graduate ecumenical research institute since 1972." 
Admission to the program re­quires at least sophomore standing, an academic average of 2.5, and three letters of recommendation. 
ll 

Cl 
I \ 
An event you won't want to miss. As part of this c~lptls community, your participat­ing Ford dealer will talk with you about the special values available on Ford's 1985 
CO-SPONSOR 
~ ..""'"






------------... 
model cars and trucks. GET OFF TO A GREAT START WITH FORD ON THE DATE(S) LISTED BELOW! 

S,.UDEN,. 
7HURSDAY,APRILI8YH
FRIDAY,


AC,.IVI,.IES 
APRIL 19YH 


BOARD 

r---------~--------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~--~----~----~--~ 
The Observer Tuesday, April 2, 1985 -page 5 

a 
Cl 

1s , 


) A" 
Carrying banners proclaiming peaceful inten­tions, a group of marchers dance in the funeral 
New statue to arrive from Italy after Easter 
By LYNNE R. STRAND 
News Staff 
A new Carrara marble statue of Brother Andre, the Holy Cross brot­her beatified by Pope John Paul II in May 1982, has been completed and will arrive at Notre Dame from Italy soon after Easter. 
Often called "the Miracle Man of Montreal," Brother Andre is credited with curing thousands of sick people through the intercession of St. Joseph, patron saint of Canada. Brother Andre is currently the only member of the Holy Cross order who is beatified and a candidate for sainthood. 
Although Brother Andre stood five feet four inches, the statue stands six feet tall. When looking at the statue, said Father Anthony person" he knew of, and Raffo's studio was the home of the same Carrara crystal-tinged marble as Mastrovic's "Pieta." 
Brother Andre was a man of "absolute, simple faith," Jenky said. "He told people they would be cured, and it happened. Andre al­ways said, 'I do not cure; St. joseph cures.' He was a believer in the power of prayer. Brother Andre was like St. Joseph, a working man, not highly educated." 
Born Alfred Besset in St. Gregoire d'Iberville, Brother Andre was a peasant and a realist. Because of his ill health, he was unable to profess priestly vows. He acted as porter at Notre Dame College, a novitiate and school for boys in Montreal, Canada. The school was located on Mount Royal, where Brother Andre built St. Joseph's Basilica, Canada's national shrine. As porter, he heard of the sick and visited them. The cures began to occur when Brother Andre was in his thirties, and were re­ported to be frequent and spon­taneous. 
Father Andre Leveille, director of vocations at Moreau Seminary, is also from the Montreal area and was at the St. Joseph Shrine on Mount Royal last fall when the Pope visited. "It shows what importance Brother Andre has when this is the one shrine the Pope kneeled at, along with 3,000 priests, when he was visiting Canada," said Leveille. 
Leveille was a priest and semi­narian at the shrine. He saw people in "absolute despair, people who are crippled or with cancer." Although Leveille said he never saw a miracle credited to Brother Andre, he has seen people "healed inside." 
Brother Andre often said, "people who suffer have something to offer to the good God. Do not seek to be spared trials, ask instead for the grace tobear them well." 
Brother Andre visited Notre Dame in the 1930s for a Holy Cross chapter meeting. 

CIA 
continuedjrompage 1 
The University administration recognizes the right of students to protest, but, a I969 letter to stu­dents written by University Presi­dent Father Theodore Hesburgh said, "Any group that substitutes force for rational persuasion, be it vi­olent or nonviolent, will be given 1 5 minutes of meditation to cease and desist." If students refuse to halt their activity after this time, they will be suspended from the commu-
An event you won't want to miss. As part of this campus community, your participat­ing Ford dealer will talk with you about the special values available on Ford's 1985 
CO-SPONSOR



S,.UDEM,.AC,.IYI,.IESBOARD 
nity. If the students refuse to stop after another five minutes they will face expulsion. 
CIA officials refused to comm­ment on the charges made by the protesters at Michigan and can­celled interviews planned for the next day because ofthe possibility of an outbreak ofviolence. 
CIA officials said they were "concerned for the safety of (their) personnel." 
Student sentiment seems to favor the protests, but is concerned with the potential for violence, according to a Michigan Daily spokesman. 
THURSDAY, APRIL 18TH FRIDAY, APRIL lOTH 
Protesters  at  Northwestern,  
Brown,  and  Tufts  limited  their  
protests  to  picketing  when  

recruiters visited their campuses. These methods led to the arrest of five people at Northwestern and 56 student at Brown faced disciplinary action by the administration. 
CIA spokesperson Kathy McPher­son stated that these protests will not change recruiting procedure. 
McPherson noted that the CIA visits more than 200 schools a year and that there are a lot ofinterested people with a "right to be inter­viewed." 
model cars and trucks. GET OFF TO A GREAT START WITH FORD ON THE DATE(S) LISTED BELOW! 

Lauck, professor emeritus of art and creator ofthe original clay model for the statue, "Notice Brother Andre's kindly face, which is not like typical saints. He always had a nice, friendly smile. Also look at his hands, which are quite large," and appear out­stretched, as if offering to help the sick. 
The statue was enlarged by Giovanna Raffo studio artists. The studio, located in Pietrasanta, Italy, is also the origin of the Carrara marble in Ivan Mastrovic's "Pieta," which currently stands in a Sacred Heart side chapel. Lauck's statue of Brother Andre will be placed next to the "Pieta." 
Lauck is not a newcomer to Notre Dame art. One of his most famous works is the statue of "Our Lady, Notre Dame" at the main circle. He began work on the statue ofBrother Andre a year and a half ago at the re­quest of University President Father Theodore Hesburgh and Father Daniel )enky, rector of Sacred Heart Church. 
For approximately four months, Lauck worked on the three foot original ofthe statue. He chose Raffo because he was "the most reliable 

It's Army O.C.S. 

(Officer Candidate 
School). A 14-weekchal­
lenge that will make you 
dig deep inside yourself 
for mental and physical 
toughness. And when 
you finish, you'll be atrim, 
fit, resourceful commis­
sioned officer in the 
Army, ready to exercise 
leadership. 
Find out how·to 

qualify for O.C.S. Stop 
by oreal!. 
SGTBrennan 234-4187 ARMY. 
BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
the rules," said Culum. "They didn't extend their terms legitimately." 
Bertino, however, said the senators-elect were arguing from "personal ambition. They didn't know what the hell they were talking about. They have their facts all jumbled." He said he never has been more relieved to complete 
,
something. 
, 
Domagalski and Christy were the 1 only senate members who voted ~ against the new constitution. 1 Domagalski said the new constitu­1
,
tion "ignores the important interests ofthe classes ofNotre Dame." 
Christy argued, "How can a soph­omore or junior representative know what a senior wants?" 

Correction 
Because of an editing error, yesterday's Observer incorrectly reporte4 the length of time al­lotted for University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's Palm Sunday homily. The time was actually 9 minutes, 30 seconds. 



-------~-------------­
The Observer Tuesday, April 2, 1985 -page 6 
~,__ ~
........... 
r-1 r--:



Duarte proclaims llll···--· landslide victory 
Associated Press dialogues with the political right and left and with the business commu­
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador -nity. PresidentJose Napoleon Duarte yes­Although the president was not a terday claimed a landslide election candidate, the election was widely victory that would give his considered to be a referendum on moderate party control of the gov­his first 10 months in office. ernment for the first time since he Christian Democrats said yester­took office. day that with 88.44 percent of the 
The results of Sunday's legislative vote tabulated, their figures gave elections were a severe blow to the them 33 seats and 25 to their main rightists, who controlled the old Na­opposition, a coalition of the far­tional Assembly and had hamstrung right Republican Nationalist Al­Duarte's policies. They had ex­liance, or ARENA, and the pected to keep or increase the conservative National Conciliation majority they held in the assembly Party. for the three years of its existence. Duarte's party held 24 seats in the 
Duarte told journalists yesterday old assembly, the rightists had 34 the apparent win by his Christian and a small party not allied to either Democrats represented "a stance of side held the other two. The Chris­
APPhoto 
the people against the far left and the tian Democrats lacked the majority 
right." He said he would continue necessary to enact legislation and 

On one of the roads, leading toward the inner Olympics: they caroed sods from a verge to show the 
seeking peace in the 55-year-old war the rightists did not have the two­

city of the Dutch capital, municipal gardeners left Olympic rings and year. Later on flowers will be 
with leftist guerrillas through thirds necessary to override a veto. 

no doubt thatAmsterdam is a prospect for the 1992 put into the boles. 
'We are the World' climbs the charts as proceeds mount 
Assoclated Press The foundation has been declared was scheduled to arr1ve in record Marty Rogol, the USA for Africa Life was the only publication tax exempt by the Internal Revenue stores yesterday executive director, said he and his allowed to send a photographer to 
NEW YORK-"We are the World," Service, he said, and has operated so "This thing is jumping off the staff of two are dizzy from the the recording session (Billboard is the song recorded by 45 pop super­far on nearly 52 million worth of shelf," said Michael Fuchs, chairman events, space-age equivalents of the using pictures supplied by USA­stars, is sailing to the top of the time and services donated by nearly of Home Box Office. HBO will show charity bake sale which range from Africa) and the issue "will be one of charts faster than any disc in a de­500 singers, engineers, recording the "We are the World" movie eight "We are the World" muscle T-shirts our best sellers ever," Whittingham cade, the flagship ofa charitable fleet company executives, lawyers, ac­times in May. priced at S 13, to the profits from a~ said in a telephone interview. that promoters say will send $70 countants and others. Fuchs says HBO has "no ulterior evening at a chic Manhattan eatery. The foundation is in the collecting million in relief to the hungry in Michael Jackson and Lionel motive" in promoting USA for Africa, 
phase now, but Rogol is already Africa. Ritchie wrote the song and lent their but acknowledges that the exclusive "We're running real hard to keep talking with relief agencies about Billboard, the music industry voices to a list of4 3 others that reads film might attract new subscribers up," said Rogol, interviewed with the problems they have distribribut­
weekly, said in its current edition like a Who's Who of rock 'n' roll. to the cable television network. Kragen. ing the aid. that the 6-minute, 19-second single "All the U.S. agencies that are "I would rather write a big check Bob Giraldi and his partner Phil "Ethiopia has the largest popula­jumped to No. 2 in the charts only dealing with African relief expect to to a good cause than to a single art­Suarez expect to raise a sum "in the tion at risk right now, followed by 
three weeks after its release. collect a total of 570 million, and we ist," said Fuchs, who declined in a five-figure range" Thursday evening the Sudan," he said, conceding that 
Billboard talent editor Paul Grein expect to equal that," said Kragen, telephone interview to disclose the at their fashionable midtown Man­Ethiopa's Marxist government has predicted it will hit No. 1 next week, who is also Ritchie's manager. That exact purchase price of the movie. hattan eatery. prevented charities from delivering the first single to hit the top in its figure, however, is far shon ofthe es­Giraldi, who also directs movies aid to the rebellious population ofits 
t 
first month since Elton John's timated Sl.5 billion needed to feed "This is not a stunt. It's a viable av­and musical videos, is sending let­nonhero provinces. "Island Girl" in 1975. the African hungry this year. enue for public good," said Leslie ters to several hundred other New Ifpolitics hamper aid to Ethiopia, The single retails for J 1.98. Of The highly publicized Jan. 28 Luceam, the organizer of a USA for York restauranteurs urging them to said Rogol, it will be channeled to that, S 1.40 goes to the "USA for recording session produced ma­Africa benefit at WYNY, a New York follow his example. "Let's hope all other needy nations, the Sudan, Africa" non-profit organization, terial for a single, a 7% -minute radio station. WYNY challenged lis­the restaurants can help feed the Chad, Kenya, Mozambique and which will use it to buy supplies for "extended play" record, one cut of a teners to identify individual voices world," he said. Niger. rellefagencies already in the field. 44% -minute album, a video cassette, in the song and contributed $1,000 Life publisher Chuck Whittin­Ten percent of the money raised "USA for Africa is not only a non­a movie which has been purchased in each ofthe winners' names, a total gham is writing to magazine execu­in the drive will be used to feed the profit organization, it is a no­for a reported S2 million by HBO, a of $16,000. tives, including six others owned by hungry in the United States, and the overhead organization," said Ken Life Magazine cover story and a spe­"Sure, we get publicity from it," Time Inc., asking them to join him in rest will go to Africa for medicines,r Kragen, the pop music impresario cial 55-page Billboard supplement said Luceam. "The more publicity giving USA-Africa a free half or quar­seeds and other agricultural supplies 
~ 
who is a driving force in the move­which will appear this week. each event gets is more for the com­ter page of advertising in a coming and for what Rogol called "long­
r 
ment. The album, which sells for $9.98, mongood." issue. trrm economic development."
r 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments
Three boys accused of forcing playmate 

to have sex with 9-year-old girl in field 

NOWRENTINGFORFALL
Assodated Press Sgt. Robert Robinson, who heads into a back yard and asked the 11­
the Taylor police youth bureau, said year-old to have sex with her, Robin­TAYLOR, Mich. -Three young the 11-year-old told police he was sonsaid. 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, 
r boys have been accused of forcing threatened "with some retribution" Both protested, and the older 
and off-street parking. 
, an 11-year-old playmate to have sex unless he had intercourse with the boys hoisted her over a fence into a , with a 9-year-old girl, holding the girl in front of a group of neighbor­field, then draped coats over the 
On site management & maintenence, 
victim down and then leaving her in hoodboys. fence to shield themselves from 
aU deluxe features 
a field while they ran off for a game The incident began when a group view, he added. 
ofhide-and-seek. of boys stopped the girl as she 

ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
Two 14-year-olds and a 12-year­walked down a street and asked her Four boys, ages 9 to 13, watched 
(good deals for Summer Session) 
old have been charged with first­ifshe was "going with this guy," Rob­as the three suspects held the girl 
degree criminal sexual conduct for inson said. down and ordered the 11-year-old 
Otllce at 820 ND Ave 
or call

open Mon-Frl3-6pm 
their alleged role in the March 19 at­When the girl said she was not, the to attack her "until we count to 20," 
234-6647
tack in this Detroit suburb. boys grabbed her and dragged her police were told. 

Sat 11-3pm 


Fault claimed in mine accident testimony 
Assoclated Press 

Health Administration during five the cause of the fire based on the 
iJOHN MARSHALL ! 
weeks of hearings which ended transcripts. 

SALT LAKE CITY -Witnesses tes­March 11. "Any testimony needs to be con­! LAW SCHOOL :_·,W/il i tified in closed hearings that there Ricchetti said no effort was made sidered in the context of the whole, • 1393 Peachtree St . N.E. Atlanta, GA 30309 '·~·~· were frequent electrical problems to fix a motor cable in longwall min­and there's a huge amount of con­in the Wilberg coal mine for several ing equipment at the 5th Right Sec­flicting testimony," Henrie said. ! APPLICATIONS TAKEN NOW ~~-l:··-~.•i days before a fire killed 27 miners, tion where miners were attempting "Taking one page oftestimony out of -..
~February, June, September Admissions ;
transcripts released yesterday show. to set a one-day coal production 5,000 not only is grossly unfair, but I 
• . I •
Problems with the mine's electri­record. think it diminishes the hope that the • Day or £vemng C asses :
. .
_,,.......

cal and telephone systems contin­Generally, he said, miners were truth about the fire will ever be 
; John Marshall Law School admits without regard ;
ued throughout the week before the reluctant to stop the operation on known." 

Dec. 19 fire and plagued miners "all their own authority to fix problems ; to national or ethnic origin ; 
day long" before the blaze erupted in the mine. Initially, investigators thought the • • 
that evening, testified Jeffrey Ric­"I think they was all too scared to fire had broken out on a conveyor ! APPROVED FOR VETERANS : 
Early advertising 
chetti, a mechanic for Emery Mining shut it down," Ricchetti said. Asked belt carrying coal from the mine, but 
; Graduation from John Marshall meets the :
Corp., the mine operator. what they feared, he replied: "the Henrie said last week that Emery had 
The partial transcripts contain tes­company." ruled out the belt or the electrical •• requirements for admission to the Bar •• timony from 13 of some 8S wit­Bob Henrie, Emery Mining system as causing the fire, but could :• Examination in Georgia and Indiana ONLY ;• nesses interviewed by inyestigators spokesman, cautioned yesterday it not do the same for arson, sabotage 
: (404) 872-3593 :
for the federal Mine Safety and would be premature to speculate on or other possible causes. 







~i~~~_<>__i_ll___t__________________Th_es-da-y,A-pr_il~2,~19~85~pa~ge-7 
Plan is not a good deal 
Last night, the current student senators passed a new constitution two days after the new senators were to have replaced them. 
Hurdling last minute objections, the senate sent the proposal to the Hall Presidents' Council for approval. If the HPC concurs with the senate, a radically newconstitution will take effect for the coming student government term. Elections would be held for dorm senators. Then on April 15, the newly elected senators would join Bill Healy, student body president-elect, to form the 1985-86 student government. 
The new constitution provides for 2 5 senators and a framework of two standing com­mittees and three ad-hoc committees. 
The class officers, three HPC representatives, judicial coordinator, student activities board manager, student body treasurer and freshman advisory council president would no longer be voting members of the senate. 
The president would have veto power, but the senate could override his veto with a two-thirds vote. The vice president would be a voting member of the senate and the president would have the tie-breaking vote. 
According to the proposed structure, the Student Activities Board would almost be an extension of the president's cabinet. The SAB manager would be appointed by the stu­dent body president and would become an executive coordinator. All executive coordin­ators would need senate confirmation before holding office. 
The proposal has its merits. The senators would be more accountable to their constituents because they would reside at the same location. The committee structure would give the senators specific duties to perform within the committees. 
The judicial coordinator should not have a vote on the senate. He should be a checkon their power, not a participant in their politics. The HPC, with fewer political concerns, could concentrate on Notre Dame's social activities. It would rightly focus itself on dorm life. The president, with his veto threat, would have the potential to be a more imposing figure. This would give the president the power to lead. 
Unfortunately, the drawbacks overshadow the merits. Four weeks ago, the idea of restructuring was on the backburner. Now, less than 25 days later, student leaders have emerged with what they think is a panacea for government, but what is more likely a Pandora's box. 
The restructured senate of 26 voting members, counting the student body vice presi­dent, would not be much larger than the current 17-member senate. The present senate, however, really only has five senators whose sole function is to represent their districts. The remaining senate members serve only in a secondary capacity and their interests are limited to the institutions they represent. The proposal calls for 25 senators who would have equal interest in every issue. This would create a logjam oflegislative chaos. 
Having senators represent their dorms will better define their interests, but perhaps too much so. Currently, senators have to worry how an issue affects various segments of the campus. They represent a significant segment of the campus. With the new constitu­tion, senators would represent only the self-interest oftheir dorms. They would have no reason to reach outside their narrow interests. 
Also, the student body would be misrepresented because each dorm would have one senator regardless ofits size. 
Removing the class officers as voting members eliminates a channel for class sentiment to be expressed. Most senators would be upperclassmen whose interests tend to be different from those of younger students, especially freshmen who depend heavily upon campus activities. 
The Student Activities Board, under the new plan, loses much ofits independence. The SAB manager would be appointed by the president, who also would control the SAB's purse strings because the president would head the finance committee. That would be too much control over the activities board. 
While the need to restructure student government is apparent to almost everyone, The Observer strongly questions both the means and the methods student government has taken so far to achieve this goal. In light of the above objections, the leaders of student government should cease all further action upon the proposed new constitution and open the matter to extensive campus discussion. 
The Bertino administration and the present senators should step aside and let those whom the students elected take office. Once this has occurred, the restructuring can take place in an orderly manner with the present officials serving in advisory positions. 
If this does not occur and the proposal takes effect, the Student Senate will not have dealt student government new cards, but merely reshuffled the same stacked deck-with a few jokers added. 

-The Observer 

Doonesbury 
OlJTIA/tST, WE (;(} OIJR.OWNtV4Yt MAN. Ul& FI6URE1J Ol!TA LaJG TIM& AGO 7HAT YOU CAN7/3(//t/J 
A REALLY PROF/TABU OfB?AT/ON 
JW/.~~ AROUNO U50A 
HANO·OUT5' 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newpaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dano,' du Lac and Satnt Mary"s College. It does not necessanly reflect the pol1c1es of the Jdmin1strat10n of e1ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of a maJOrtty of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the 



Growing accustomed to life at ND takes stamina 
1n the latter part of August of last year, I boarded a train and headed offto Notre Dame for my first semester as a college student. For the longest time, I, like many others had dreamed about life under the Golden Dome. I had heard of all of the fantastic traditions and effervescent spirit that this University boasted and now I was ready to live in this world called Notre Dame. 
When I arrived with my family, I was almost beside myselfwith excitement. The train ride from New Orleans hadbeen trying on my anx­ious nerves, and the car ride from Chicago's 
Kevin Becker 
to the point 
Union Station seemed to take an eternity. I think that I could have qualified as the perfect six year old with my incessant "are we there yet?" How could I not be excited? I was headed for the place that would be my home for the next four years. I wanted to see my new world. 
The image of the Dome as I first saw it still stands out clearly in my mind today. The sun­light reflected off of it radiantly, and I knew that Notre Dame would be all that I had im­agined it to be. I can remember my thoughts at that time vividly. The people who were sitting in the front seat of the rent-a-car represented an old world, one that I was ready to forget. For my entire life I had been tied down in a controlled environment that I thought I did not care for. I was ready to get out and bask in the independent life that college was going to offer. Notre Dame was going to set me free. 
I cannot say that I have been disappointed with the independence that life under the Dome has offered me. Even though the admin­istration does exercise a good deal of con­straint over the students, being a thousand miles from home has been independence enough for me. I found that Notre Dame did offer me a new life, a new world. The problem was that as time here wore on and the new­ness wore off, I was not so sure if I wanted to forget the old world that I had left down South. 
living in the world under the Dome is not as easy as I thought it would be when I first arrived here. I had had dreams of a place where nothing ever went wrong, and where everyone was friendly and willing to sacrifice themselves for each other. In my mind, I had created a utopian society and I thought that life here would be unparalleled by life in any other part ofthe country. 
When the month ofOctober rolled around, something started to happen to me that was completely unexpected. I began to feel the first yearnings for my home town. I wanted to see my mother and father and all of my high 
Garry Trudeau 


UH-HUH. 
Editorial Board  
Ed1tOr·tn·Ch1ef  Sarah E Hamilton  
Managtng Ed1tor  Amy Stephan  
News Ed1tor  Ke:1th Hamson Jr.  
News Editor.  Dan McCullough  
Sa1nt Mary"s Execultve Ed1tor  Theresa Guar~no  
Sports Edttor  Jeff Bklmb  
Accent Edttor.  Mary Healy  
Vtewpotnt Editor  Joe Murphy  

school buddies again. I wanted to escape this world of clandestine alchoholic parties and return to a place where the drinking age is still 18 and bars welcome the patronage ofcollege underclassmen. As reluctant as I am to admit it to anyone, I was beginning to feel homesick. I wanted to go home. 
Obviously, I stuck it out. I began to write a few more letters to my friends and looked for­ward to Sundaywhen I would have the chance to call my family. This all helped me get through the times when my inner call to return to the sunbelt was the strongest. I must say that winter was the hardest thing for me to get through. I admit that the snowy months were a welcome change from the 18 years that I had spent enduring 80 degree winters, but February in South Bend can be quite depressing. 
My homesickness seemed to appearfully on those terribly gloomy days we experienced this past winter. Walking to class at 7:50 in the morning and seeing the gray that appeared to be the only color that God would allow to ex­ist on this campus, I could only think about how wrong all the stories were that I heard before I came here. The snow on the ground looked like a crusty layer rather than a fluffy blanket, and the Dome was eclipsed by the mucky fog that always surrounded it. Why did I want to be here? I thought that in coming here I had made the biggest mistake ofmylife. 
Now, after a fantastic spring break and a visit from my parents, life under the Dome does not seem as bad as it did during those depressing times. Like most freshmen, I was suffering from a mild case of culture shock. Here I was, an 18 year old kid, thrown into a world 1000 miles from home with people that I had never met before in my life. I did not really think that the people here were goingto talk differently than I or not understand the culture from whence I came. I guess I found out that life here is not utopian, but simply as enjoyable as one wishes to make it. 
The reason I decided to write this column is that I felt those yearnings for home recently. But this time, something was different. The pains I felt were not as biting, and an airy con· versation with a new friend allowed me to for­get that I ever lived any place else but Notre Dame. Now that my time as a freshman is com· ing to a close, I have apparently come to grips with my new world. I have made friends from all parts of the country and even from some foreign lands. I have become accustomed to all that daily life under the Dome entails and have grown to love it for real. But no matter how comfortable I become in this environ· ment, I know that there is something in my heart that will never let my feelings for my old world cease. 
Kevin Becker is a freshman at Notre Dame and is the assistant Viewpoint editor at The Observer. 


Quote of the day 
"In a hierarchy, every employee tends to rise to his level ofincom­petence" 
-Lawrencejohnston Peter 

Department Managers 
Busmess Manager. Advert1smg Manager Controller. Systems Manager Product1on Manager 
Davod Stephen1tch Anne Cull1gan Bill H1ghducneck Mark B. Johnson John A Mennell 

commun1ty. and the tree express1on of varytng op1n1ons on campus. through letters. Photography Edt lor Peter C. Laches IS encouraged. Copy Chtef Frank L1po Founded November 3, 1966 





Creating interior designers' dreams 

Tammy Kruse's room in 316 Walsh is like a miniture Notre Dame. 

Lisa Young 

features staff writer 






Accent 
D
orm rooms-big or small, Mor­rissey or Pasquerilla West, love 'em or hate 'em-they are as much a part ofcollege life as Chern 11 5. Our "homes away from home" are rarely what we expect them to be. Whether a freshman with an as­signed room, or a junior with the "choice" quad, they somehow don't compare to a Fifth A venue apart­ment. 
Must students do the "usual" decorating to salvage the atmo­sphere as best we can: touch up the paint on the walls, buy some second-hand carpet, and fill the room with "borrowed" milk crates. We bring our stereos and some photos and maybe even a throw pillow or two. But it's still just a dorm room. 
Unless creativity intervenes-and a look around campus will certainly show that creativity abounds here 
under the Dome. 
The "Howard Penthouse," better known as room 421, is the unique creation ofroommates Mark Huber, Bob Lee, Jim Chmiel, and Carl Gebo. 'Ibis three-room quad is also referred to as the "social hub of Howard Hall." 'Ibe guys were lucky in the respect that Chmiel, a junior,. received the Number I room pick. But from there, it was nothing but hard work. 
'Ibe four arrived at Notre Dame nine days early this school year, along with Bob's dad from Gales­burg, Illinois. The five started by sanding and painting the walls and refinishing the woodwork. It seems, thou¢1, that with all of this hard work, some things were left out. lbere is not a visible desk, sink, or bed in any ofthe three rooms. 

r 
r 
~ 
r 
,. 
,.. 
t 
0 
The lack ofdesks is easily ex­plained: the atmosphere of the room doesn't lend itself to studying. But sinks and beds? A closer look shows the sinks concealed behind carefully constructed tables and a lV console. The tables move, allow­ing the guys to brush their teeth, and then return to hide the sink. 
The hiding beds make up the most interesting aspect of the rooms. In the bedroom, a fake floor was constructed. The floorboards are on hinges which lift up in an almost "coffin" fashion to expose the mattresses. With the floor­boards down, the beds are virtually invisible. 
The details with which the room was finished are exquisite. The hardware necessary for these details, as well as the lumber for the beds and console, cost the roommates close to S 1 ,000. Why all this work and money? "We like luxury. We're college yuppies," they replied. 
All four are juniors and had planned on keeping their room next year, until Huber and Chmiel were chosen as resident assistants. The other two say, "We're taking applications for two new roommates." Ifinterested, stop by 421 Howard. 
But Howard's creativity is rivaled by that ofSorin. Steve Divney and Mike Cannatti occupy I02 Sorin. Because of the 18-foot ceilings, the guys were able to build a full-scale loft. Nearly a second story, the idea is similar to the room they lived in last year. The lumber cost some­where between 51 00 and S 1 50. 
Why did they do it? Says Divney, "It makes for a nicer lifestyle. We wanted to use our engineering knowledge before graduation. This set-up allows us to have two re­sponsible social gatherings at the same time." Because both arc seniors, the loft will be for sale for next year. 

Down the hall in I07-sorin, live Tim Laboe,Jim Callaghan, Dick Prosen,Jim Folstrum, Steve Beuer­lein. and Chris Kvochak. 1bey have a similar layout in their room, which they planned at the end of last year. Their set-up is also for sale come May. 
'!be room's uniqueness lies in the decor ofone of the walls. It is cov­ered with autographs of nearly everyone who has visited the room. Is that okav with their rector? "Sure! He signed it, too. It's alright as long as we paint over it at the end ofthe year," the guys said. 
Upstairs in 346 Sorin is home to Pat Loughran, Craig Berry, andJohn Gleason. This two-room triple contains "the stages." By putting all of the beds in one room, the other room was open for ideas. Gleason came up with the stage idea. 
The upper stage is their couch and lV console. Underneath is a "study": an armchair and assorted books. The lower stage has more room for seating, and for storage underneath. Says Berry, "It was the only place to keep Pat's skis." 
The wall abv the lower stage is decorated with everyone's favorite mascot: the :-.lotre Dame leprec­haun. The outline was there from previous years and the guys repainted it this year. The room cost approximately $120 and fol­lows all University regulations. As for next year, says Berry, "We'lf keep it, but probably put it together differently." 
North Quad also has its share of unique rooms. Kirk Kimler and Mark Worscheh live in 316 Stan­ford, and have done some unusual 
things to their room. No beds are 
visible upon entering the room. 
They are rigged so that they fold 
down out of the wall, similar to 
bunks in a boat. 'Inc bottom is 
paneled to blend in with the wall. 
The idea was copied from other rooms last year, and took the guys three weeks to build. "Everyone else was studying, and we were still working on our room," they said. 
The middle of the room contains an entertainment center, complete with lV, stereo, and refrigerator. Both the stereo and lV have hookups in the lofts for turning them off. 
Behind the entertainment center is a fabulous shotglass collection. They started it their freshman year and they now have nearly l 50 glasses. The room, including the bed frames, entertainment center, and shotglass case, cost approxi­mately 5350. 
While men seem to be con­structive, women seem to be 
creative. Tammy Kruse has turned 
316 Walsh into a miniature Notre 
Dame. Decorated completely in 
green, blue, and gold, Tammy has 
captured that alumni spirit already. 
From the NV hlanket on her wall 
to the campus photos to her little 
brother's drawing of the Fighting 
Irish, every inch says something 
about Notre Dame. 
Why did she decorate with this theme? "I was already such a Domer when I came here," she said. She plans to keep the idea for next year, because of the time and money that she has put into decorating. The handmade curtains, chairback and blue and gold af¢1an show how handy she is. 
Well, ifyou'rt: looking around your room and wondering what went wrong, just remember, "There's always next year!" A little imagination and creativity can turn your "ho-hum" abode into an inte­rior designer's dream. 


TheindP-pendentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
• 
Assistant Features Editor 

• 
Features Copy Editor 


Questions should be directed to Mary Healy at the Observer office (239-5313). Resumes and personal statements are due Tuesday, April2 at 5 p.m. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 48558 
Tuesday, April2, 1985-page 8-page 9 
Football's future: 
t of ho-hum abodes 
transntitters 


Marc Ramirez 
Strange days indeed 
P
ONTIAC, Mich.-Bud Kilroy here. Middle ofjanuary, 1986. I 
don't think they ever thought it would come to this. But it has. 
The big guy just got through preppin' us and we're ready to head 
out onto the battlefield. 
Yeah, I've seen so much pain and suffering I don't even flinch 
anymore. Kids just outta college cryin' for their mothers. The 
veterans who thought they'd be ready for anything-anything but 
this. How such a thing could happen in an advanced society like 
ours eludes me. 
They call me Chief. I am the quarterback ofthe Houston Oilers. 
And I've got to lead these guys out there. This is the Super Bowl, 
and we're playin' the Bears. 
Here's the deal: First they put these little transmitters in our 
helmets -just so the rest ofthe players could hear me calling 
signals. That was okay. But pro football, like everything else, has 
gone too far. 
They decided the rest ofthe good ol' U. S. ofA. would like to hear 
us too, so they made it so everyone athome could hear me barking 
signals. That was early in the season. And now-this. They can hear 
everything we say. 
Wait-time to go. We're lining up, single file, ready to be 
introduced. 
QB: Breaker one-nine, this here's Chief We'refixin' to be 
introduced, come on? 
FB: I bearya, good buddy. We're all lined up behindyou nice 
andpretty, like ants on a sidewalk. 
QB: Mercy sakes alive, Night Train, looks like wegot us a 
convoy. 
TE: You got the Barrelhouse here. Gonna have toput the heels 
to the turftonight, buddy -there's a lot ofBears out there. 
QB: That's a big IO-four, Barrelhouse. Looks like we're gonna 
need us some good defense. Hey DoubleNickels, y'gotyer ears on? 
MLB: You got 'im, Chief Let's kill us some Bears 'fore they get a 
chance to get back to Shy town, y'bear? 
FB: Hey, waita minute, Chief What's yer 20? 
QB: The middle ofthe field, you dodo. They justannounced my 
name. 
We're on the offensive. We've set up bivouac on the 20-yard-line, but we can't hold our position much longer. Thirty seconds is all we've got to make our next move. 
QB: OK, gang, we're ready to roll. You copy? 
LT: We read you, Chief Ten-but. 
QB: No, you moron, two-but. Hut one, but two. 
C: 
Take a bike, Chief QB: Thanks, Snapper. I'm fading back. 

C: 
Roger, Chief I'll stand myground. LE: Chief, I've bit an open area. Send me the ball. QB: Coordinates, Fireball? LE: I'm at the35-yard-line and the left bash mark-ub, 


disregard last transmission, Chief The heavy artillery is almost 
on me. 
RG: Houston, we have a problem. Chief, you'regonna have a 275-pound lineman coming your way in a few seconds, do you read? 
QB: I read you LOUD AND CLEAR, Rambo! Requesting backup! Help! TE: Chief, this is Barrelhouse. I've reached a temporary clearing at the 30-yard-line. Fire away. 
QB: Here goes, Barrelhouse. Airalert. 
TE: I can see it coming, Chief I think I've got it. I think ­
The refs blown the whistle. Play is dead. Bodies are everywhere. 
Barrelhouse never caught the ball. He couldn't hold on. Hit at full speed by a free safety. He'll be out for a long time. Oh well. Life goes on. 
Hiya. I'm the Bears' defensive team captain. They call me the Hunter. I'm at the middle linebacking position. I'm really into all these changes the NFL has been making. Transmitters for us guys on the defense is the best thing they've created since stickum. Excuse me while I spit. 
MLB: Okay, guys, item one: We stopped 'emprettygood on the last one. Way to go, Cobra. 
FS: Hey, only doin' myjob. 
MLB: Item two: It's second-and-10. They've brought in a new tight end since we wasted their last one. Lancer, I wantyou to 
watch the screen; Hondo, watch the end-around on your side; Bandit, take the otherside. 
Okay, men, let's go. Andbey -let's be careful out there. 
BEARS' COACH: Hey men, guess what? We've intercepted their transmissions. They're going long. Hunter, Gomez, Lancer­converge in backfield. 
MLB: Roger, coach. Grody, we're sending everybody. Continue pursuit. Suspect is armed and dangerous, butyou're bigger than be,is. Please apprehend. 
DRE: Yes, sir. Suspect seems quite eager to rid himselfofthe ball. Don't worry, I've gothim now. 
Suspect apprehended. 
MLB: Good work, Grody. 
FB: Chief? Chief, areyou all right? 
QB: I'm losingyour signal, men. Overand out. 

Eric Bergamo 
Television review 
T
his year, NBC has found new frontiers to explore in the fam­ily with "The Cosby Show" and "Family Ties," two shows that have shot the network's Thursday night lineup to the top of the Neilson ratings. 
"The Cosby Show" marks the triumphant return of Bill Cosby to prime-time television. His last series was the highly popular "I Spy" of the sixties. Cosby plays a sucessful and respected doctor, Cliff Hux­table. The plotline for each episode is standard family sitcom fare. noth­ing glaringly new in this depart­ment. Yet the series is different, startlingly different in its format. 
Network television has had its 
share of troubles in presenting 
blacks in a favorable light. It is a 
shameful fact that black role models 
are limited on television, a problem 
that needs w be eliminated in the 
honest view ofequality. 
"The Cosby Show" is a positive 
step in that direction, a direction 
that should be actively pursued by 
all the networks. "The Cosby Show" 
is the first show w present blacks in 
an intelligent and succesful manner. 
No living in the ghetto as CBS once 
did with "Good Times," Bill Cosby 
and family are well-off. There are no 
jokes about living in the squalor of 
the slums. 
The secret to why "The Cosby 
Show" is so good lies in Cosby 
himself. He is so well known to us 
that we can't help but like him in 
his role. When he laughs, we laugh 
with him. His style is smooth, 
honed through the experience of 
many stand-up routines and of 
bringing up his own family. 
It seems that Cosby has faced 
whatever comes up on the show at 
least once in raising his own family 
and uses that experience to en­
hance the show. Cosby is a perfect 
role model, someone we can't help 
from liking. 
Also notable ••1 the show is 
Phylicia Ayers-Allen as Cliff's wife 
Clair. She plays her role quite well, 
(well enough to deserve an Emmy 
nomination), and does not let Cosby's star quality overshadow her own talents. Thank you NBC for bringing us something that breaks 
the unfortunate color lines that are 
in television. Thank you for a show 
that everyone can enjoy. 
"Family Ties" is a reversal on the format that made "All in the Family" such a large hit in the seventies. Instead of having the conservative parents against the changing morals and social values of their liberal kids, the roles are reversed. The liberal parents are opposed to the changing morals and social values 
of their conservative kids. Ifthere was ever a sitcom that expressed the changing times since Ronald Reagan took office, "Family Ties" is that sitcom. 
Each week is a new dimension in the widening generation gap be­tween liberal parents and conserva­tive children. The views and opinions ofeach age are put forth and conflicts emerge. The conflicts are not qmte as loud and violent as they were on "All in the Family." 
It is quite humorous to watch the parents reminisce on the peace marches of the sixties while won­dering what happened along the line that made their children so materialistic. At best, the series is a statement of the country's change back to conservatism and the effect of the Reagan years upon Americans. The change from Yippie to Yuppie, from flower power to the power ofone's bank account. 
Another fine cast graces this program. Michael Gross and Meredith Baxter Birney portray the parents with the emotion and savvy needed to get across the fact that they are watching their children take the opposite course in growing up than they did. 
Michael]. Fox takes his role of Alex and uses him to make that statement of the changing ways of 
America. He is purely interested in capitalism and he lets us know it whenever he is on the program. He is the personification ofthe Reagan conservative, yet with a sense of timing that makes his lines much 
more appealing to us. 
Justine Bateman and Tina Yothers round out the cast, which has had Baby Andrew added to it recently. I'll review his acting when he learns to speak, which should be in two seasons. 


I 
! I 
I 
• '• 
• 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play a 
doubleheader today at 1:30 p.m. at Jake Kline Field. -Tbe Observer. 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team 
will play a home match todayagainst Western Michigan at 10a.m. at Counney courts. · Tbe Observer 
The ND Rowing Clubwill be meeting tonight at 8 
p.m. in room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall. All members should 
• attend to elect officers and receive sweats. -Tbe Observer 
The ND Women's Water Polo Club will 
hold practice tonight from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone who is interested may attend. For more informa· tion, call Marianne Bailey at 283-3891. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball signups 
have been extended until today. Teams may pay the 15 registration fee in the An Tostal office from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. For more informa­tion, call the office at 239-7668.-Tbe Observer 
Bookstore Basketball schedules will be 
available today from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the An Tostal office on the second floor of LaFortune for all teams who were unable to attend Sunday's captain's meeting. Only those teams who have not already picked up a schedule will be allowed to do so. No schedules will be distributed after tomorrow. · Tbe Observer 
Anyone interested in scorekeepingfor 
the Bookstore Basketball tournament should attend a meeting tonight from 7 p.m to 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune little Theatre. Those unable to attend must call Suzanne La Croix at 283-1365 or Marc Ramirez at 283-2504 before the meeting.· The Observer 
Notre Dame baseball players Jackie Moran 
and Joe Dobosh will be the guests on "Speaking of Sports" when it airs tonight at 9 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. Listeners may call in with questions and comments at 239-6400.-Tbe Observer 
An Tostal mud volleyball signups will be held today through Thursday from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the An Tostal office in LaFortune. Each team must consist ofat least seven players, two of whom must be women. For more information, call Janet Tabit at 277·3967 or Matt Corrigan at 283-2465. ·The Observer 
An Tostal innertube water polosignups will 
be held tomoTTow at 7 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Hall lobby. A S7 registration fee will be collected with team rosters. · The Observer 

An Tostal ultimate frisbee signups will be held tonight and tomOTTow night in the lobby of LaFortune from 7:30 
p.m. to 9 p.m. Rosters of ten players and their ID numbers will be accepted for the tournament, which begins Thursday, April 11. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in refereeing for 
Bookstore Basketball should come to a meeting on Thursday at 4:30 
p.m. in the Football Auditorium at the ACC. Anyone with further questions should contact Mike Dunn at the NVA office ( 239-6100). -
Tbe Observer 

Applications are being take_n forth~ position 
of president of the Saint Mary's College Athletic Council for the 1985-86 school year. Applications can be picked up now at the An­gela Athletic Faciliry and must be returned by Thursday. All inter­ested athletes are encouraged to apply. -The Observer 
Several top amateur wrestlers from the 
United States andJapan will participate in an international challenge match on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the ACC. Some Olympians and NCAA champions will compete, including Irish assistant coach John Azevedo, the NCAA 57 kg. champ. Tickets are available now at the Gate I 0 ticket office of the ACC at 15 for adults and S3 for students 18 and under. ·The Observer 
An interhalllacrosse league is being formed by NVA. The deadline for entries is Monday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Observer 
The Irish Spring Runs, road races ofsix and three miles, will be held by NVA on Saturday, April 20. T-shirts will be awarded to all finishers, and a trophy will be awarded to the top finisher in each of the five divisions: men's undergraduate, women's undergraduate, men's graduate, women's graduate, and faculty and staff. An entry fee of S4 is due by Friday, April 12, in the NVA office. · The Observer 
An interhall tennis tournament will be 
held by NVA on Saturday, April 20. Each hall may enter two singles players and two doubles teams; no player may play both singles and doubles. Team rosters for the single-elimination tournament are due by Friday, April 12, in the NVA office. ·The Observer 
The Diet Pepsi 1Ok road race is coming to South Bend on April 20. Runners can compete for a chance to partic­ipate in the national championships in New York. For more informa­tion, call 234-8465. ·The Observer 
Interhall baseball umpires are being sought 
by NVA. Anyone who is interested may fill out an application at the NVA office. · The Observer 
Cheerleading applications are due by 5 p.m. 
Thursday in the basketball office inside Gate 1 of the ACC. -The Observer 
Rose worried as Reds close 
•


poor spring 
Assoclated Press 
TAMPA, Fla.-Player-Manager Pete 
Rose says he hopes his Cincinnati 
Reds make a quick turnabout from 
an ill-timed, exhibition-season 
slump just a week away from the 
season opener in Cincinnati. 
Sunday, Cincinnati lost for the 
ninth time in the past 12 games, ab­
sorbing a 15-2 pounding from the 
New York Mets. Reds outfielder 
Dave Parker suggested that the Reds 
are floundering because offatigue. 
"This is probably the worst part of 
spring training," Parker said. 
"You've been here for awhile. You 
are ready, but at the same time you 
want to play for real. I'm ready to 
play for real. 
"It's been a grind," Parker said. 
"I'm a little fatigued. I think every· 
one is, but you just have to suck it up 
and dig a little deeper because we'll 
hit stretches like this in the season, 
too, and you have to be ready for it." 
Rose, chagrined over Sunday's shellacking, said he was postponing the next round ofroster cuts a day or two to avoid having them come on the heels of the loss to the Mets. He said he hopes fatigue is the reason for the Reds' slump. 
"Boy, 1 hope so," he said. "I hope so. I hope they are tired." 
The Reds plan to start pitching staff ace Mario Soto in the April 8 opener against the Montreal Expos. Sunday, Soto and Bob Buchanan were pounded for a total of 22 hits. 
At first base, Cesar Cedeno dropped a wind-blown pop fly and allowed two runs to score. Soto threw a wild pitch which let another run in. Catcher Dann Bilardello dropped a ball while making a tag at the plate. The Reds were down 8-0 after four innings. 
When the Reds finally scored Sun· day in the eighth inning, it ended a string of 19 scoreless innings. 
"We've got to start putting some crooked marks on the board," Parker said. "All we've seen is goose eggs." 
Tuesday! April2, 1985-page 10 

The Obsen•er Nolrto Dam" offin:. lo<:a!"d on lh" lhird tloor of l.al·onun" S!Udcnt c.,nlcr. a<T.,pts dassilkd advtorlising from') a.m. umil ·l p.m.. Monday !hrough Friday. The Obserr•er Saim Mary's office. lo<:a!nl on lhl· lhird floor of Haggar Colkg" Ccnlt"r, al"<"t'pls classitkds from 12:.~0 p.m. u111il -~p.m .. Mon· day !hough Friday. lkadlin" for ntoxl·day da"itkds is .~ p.m. All classifkds musl h" prepaid, d!h"r in person or hy mail.< :harg<· is I 0 <Tn!s p<·r fin· dura<··
Classifieds 

lt"rs er dav. 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING 
2n-604s 
TYPING Jlockle Bogga 684-8793 
PRO. TYPE Over 14 yrs experience typing student papers. dtssertallons etc. 277·5633 
WOfd Proceaamg · Call Andrea at 283· 3880 from 9:00am • 11 :00 pm 
BURKAT COMPUTER CENTER SOFTWARE AND ACCESSORIES FOR MACINTOSH BEST SELECTION SUPER LOW PRICES ALL SOFTWARE 2Q-50/ OFF 3105 MISHAWAKA AVE 287·3344 
TYPING Term papers, resumes, letters. manuacnpta Aeaaonabte rates; ptckup & delivery on campuse1 avatlable Call Mrs Schultz betw""n 5-IOpm 277·5134. 
Will do TYJllng • experienced typ1st Reasonable. Call287·5162 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST a ladles gold seoko watch around and about matn or south quad about 2 weeks before spnng break-heaps and bunchee of aentlmentaJ value IS attached 10 ,,..please call Heather at 3763 1f you have found it--thanks I 
Whoever left me m charge of thetr pearls at the last Dillon SYR, please call me to clatm. Enc Schneeman 3744 
found: one basketball call pm 174 7 
LOST: Gold bracelet WJih engraved ini· 
uals ASB Even if these are your 1n1t1als, 
too. th1s bracelet was a 91ft and I d 
REALLY l1ke like to get1t back Call2998 
1 o whoever stole my den1m jacket from a 
C. V1ew party Fn: I WANT MY GLASSES BACK. I CANT DRIVE HOME WITHOUT THEM. GIVE ME A BREAK Call me up: Blake 1436 
To lhe person who /ef! the party at Turtle Creek Saturday n1ght (3/30) weanng my Uz Claiborne demm jacket: It was a pretty chilly mght, but With any luck Ill surv1ve the pneumon1a. And, smce SICkness hasn I hmshed me off yet. I d hke my coal back Please call Joan at 1292; if I don t make I! through. Ill Will 1110 you. 
LOST: Vtvltar lnstamat1c camera at SemOf FO<mal in ballroom If you picked it up by acc1dent. please call Jul1e at 234­7319. 
Loet: The 1orso of our mannequin (answers to Blanche). Last seen at R1ver· v1ew Lodge in Mishawaka wearing a ptnk sweater Great Sentimental value Please call284·5518 WJth any infO<mation. 
FOR RENT 
NEED AN APARTMENT Summer Townhouse available for rent! Call2275 fOf information 
WANTED 
Need nde to Erie. Buffalo. Rochester on 4/3. Sus1e 2283 
--SEX in D.C.--I need a ride and can leave anytime. Dave 232·0554 
Ride Needed To Maaaachuaetta Help me. I stayed here for spring break and I must get out of South Bend belore I go crazy!!!! Can leave at noon on Wed­nesday. W1ll share usual Call Paul al 2275 
NEED ride to N.Y.C call Gary 1489 
Need 2 ndes to ST LOUIS !!!! Can leave af!ernoon 4/3 Call Laura at4673. 
...... .... .. . HELP RIDE NEEDED TO NYC/LONG ISLAND FOR EASTER WILL SHARE EX· PENSES PLEASE CALL KATHLEEN AT 2905 
NEED RIDE to Cleveland area for Easter Anyone going on Oh10 Tpk. call Steve· 1794 
NEED RIDERS TO D.C. LEAVE 
TONIGHT 4/2 DAVE 232·0554 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
RIDE NEEDED TO LOUISVILLE KY !! 
CALLJOAN4161 
......... . ................. . 
Alders needed to Ch1cago no. suburbs for 
Easter. Leav1ng Sat. a.m., returning Mon. 
a.m. Call She1la 2639. 
Need nde Ia St. LoUIS 4/4 Call4053 
Rider Needed to So N.J. Leave Wed. n+ght Call Bill1816 
Need ride to Chicago 0 Hare Thurs. AM 4/4. Call2611 or 1029. 
NEED RIDERS TO WASH. DC FOR EASTER LEAVE THURS/RETURN MON. CALL JEFF 3859 
RIDERS NEEDED TO CLEVE 4/4-4/8 DAVE 256·6676 

FOR SALE 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps fOf $44 through the U.S. government? Get the lacts today' Call 1·312·742-1 t42 ext. 7316. 
FOR SALE:1980 PLYMOUTH CHAMP,TWIN STICK, AM/FM STEREO, RUNS WELL ASKING $800, BUT WILL NEGOTIATE. CALL JEFF 3859. 
1978 Camara LT 6 cyl. 3 sp. 1 owner 79000 mi. $2950 John 1486 
Be smar1! Sell your class books before the rush. Mon.·Fri between 12 and 4. Save$ on paperbacks. Fri: 3-6: 50{ olf used: 20/ off new. PANDORA S BOOKS, 937 So Bend Ave. 233·2342 
BUS TO 0 HARE! When? Apnl4 at 3pm. How much? $10. Who s sponsoring it? THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD, of course. Bring your money to the Record Store. Seats are sold on a first come. first serve basts. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR FREE DELIVERY 272·4453 MO· TH 8·11pm FA-SA 8pm·lam 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
reservations are stillavatlable for the 
CHICAGO ROAOTRIP 
on April13 

Cata tix only $35 
Cubblea tix only $I 7 "an even1ng of fun, baseball, cullure and debauchery in the Windy City call Dan nowat1787 
Hey Schwerha .... We Love You !I 
ENJOY YOUR 19TH BIRTHDAY MARY BETH SORRY WE CAN'T BE TOGETHER LOTS OF LOVE, MOM AND DAD 
MUD VOLLEYBALL SIGNUPS ·AnTos· tal Off1ce,LaFor1une lrom 3-5pm Sognups March 28·Apnl 4. Info: Call Janet T ablt 277·3967.or Mall Corngan 283-2465. 
CAMPUS VIEW APTS NEED: 2 Female roommates for school yr. 85·86. For 1nfo.ca11 Janet T abll· 277·3967 alter 11pm. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS'! Its lime Ia plan for the SENIOR TRIP to lhe BAHAMAS Deposits can be paid lrom NOW til 4/3 at Firsl Sourse Travel offlces(Bad•n and Decc1o). They accepl all major credit cards DepositS w1ll be taken in LaFortune, 4/9·4112(Tues-Fn) from 6:3Q-8:30pm.THINK BAHAMAS'!! 
.................................................... 
SAINT MARYS OBSERVER WRITERS! Don'! fO<get the MANDATORY meeting for all news and sports wnters this Tuesday. April2, at 6:30p.m. in room 306 Haggar Center II by chance you cant attend. you must call Teas Guanno at 239--5313 before the meeting. Anyone inp teresled in wnrmg IS welcome 
JIM TABOR CORE COURSE Player of the week: Tim Lyons 
Need nde to Cleveland leavtng Thurs.(4/4) of Easter Break. Call4174. 
DEAR BRIAN ISERN • YOUNGEST BROTHER OF MART A BUSHKA. DRINK BEER. SHOOT POOL DRINK BEER. SH001 POOL DRINK BEER, SHOOT POOL DRINK BEER, SHOOT POOL DRINK BEER. SHOOT POOL SINCE;RELY. YOUR BROTHERS TO BE 
THE CHAMELEON IS BACKI NEW DAY. NEW TIME. SEE HIM WEDNESDAY. APRIL 10, FROM 9·11. 
MAXELL XL90'o 
10 for $22 
lh1s week only at Rock du Lac Records. f1rst floor LaFortune. 
BUT DOES THE SOUP COME WITH POTATDESII 
A WE'RE FOOLS SALE 
ALL APRIL FOOLS WEEK 
Maxelf XLII s: 10 for $22 
Lrm1ttwo We wrll beat any pncet Rock du 
Lac Record1 first floor LaFortune 
CLASS OF 87 Jun1or Advrsory Board and Commttee applications are available NOW until Wed April3 at the Student Ac· IIVilleS Olf1ce In the Main Lobby ol LaFortune. Applrcatlons due Wed at 5:00. London sludents welcome GET IN· VOLVED1! 
MJH, Welcome lathe FAMILY. Luv. SEP 
Alia Budnyk is a FREE WOMAN .. SOfty. Aeets Weebs 
THE ADVENTURES OF MR TOADS WILD RIDERS: Max asleep on his face, on his book. anywhere... Staymg for din­ner too? Your face is faJling off! WHO had !rouble exiling? Revers1ng on the Inter· state 11 illegal. you know' Oh, you crazy college kids In high school bars·· you re·a· radioactive, but do real men rtde merry go rounds. go ahopptng With the gtrls. and need plastic under them when they eat? 
Need nde to DETROIT Area 4/4 JEFF 277·3875 share usual 
PUT OUR POWDER UP YOUR NOSE! Winter Park/Mary Jane 
Excuse me, which way ts it to Wisconsm? Where a the gas cap? I like your radar Red rocks -what a great place for a con­cert! GO IRISH! TASTES GREAT! LESS FILLING! LETS GET NAKED! PARTY' PARTY! Killian son the hot tub. Sun burn Thank goodness you re finally legal. M1asy! It must be the altitude. How do you play quarters? FRESHMAN' I want Oil m my spntzer FRESHMAN' Saleway 
..........................................................\ .. 

---~---~---~-------~ -~--­
The Observer Tuesday, April 2, 1985 -page 11 
Tigers 
continuedfrom page 16 
great year. The team's personnel is about the same as last year, except for the pres­ence of pitcher Walt Terrell in Dave Rozema's place, but that may be a weak­ness as every other contender is improved. Ifany ofthe players mentioned above has a poor year, Sparky Anderson will be watch­ing the playoffs on television. 
Toronto (89-73)-"Ifthe Blue Jays had a bullpen, they'd win the division." This is what many people have been saying for the last two years, but you shouldn't hear it in 1985 as Toronto has gone out and eliminated the problem by picking up top­notch relievers Bill Caudill and Gary Lavelle. With those two packing up starters like Dave Stieb, Luis Leal and Doyle Alexan­der, and with Jesse Barfield, George Bell and Willie Upshaw leading a talented group of hitters, the Blue Jays should be the division favorites. However, Toronto has one major weakness -it hasn't proven that it can win the division yet. Until the jays prove they can, you can't expect them to beat proven winners like Detroit, Bal­timore and New York. 
Baltimore (85-77) -The Orioles are indeed proven winners -they have the best record in baseball over the last 20 years · and they have the talent, especially on the pitching staff of Mike Boddicker, Storm Davis, Scott McGregor, Sammy Stewart and Tippy Martinez, to win their second divi­sion title in three years. However, they also have been hit by a rash of injuries. Pitcher Mike Flanagan is out for much of the season, while free agent Lee Lacy will miss the first few weeks because of a thumb in­jury. The other teams better capitalize, though, because if Baltimore can stay close for the fU"st half of the season, they'll win the division with their usual second-half rush led by a lineup of Lacy, Fred Lynn, Cal Ripken and Eddie Murray. 
Boston (86-76) -Once again, the Red Sox have one of the best hitting teams in the league and also the best outfield (Dwight Evans, Jim Rice and Tony Armas) in baseball. Their young pitching staff of 
Mets 
continuedfrom page 16 
second-year manager Davey Johnson has 
kids like Calvin Schiraldi, Roger McDowell, 
Rick Aguilera, and Randy Myers in camp 
who will jump at the chance if one of the 
frontline pitchers should falter. 
Chicago (96-65) -With the kind of tal­ent that he has on his roster, second-year pilot jim Frey doesn't beleive in tampering too much with success. So the defending division champs will field much the same team that won the NL East last year. The only major lineup change is at shortstop, where 22-year old Shawon Dunston will open the season as the starter, replacing 39-year old Larry Bowa, who hit just .223 last year. 
Even if they don't add another pitcher, however, the Cubs have enough on the mound to stay in contention. Not even the biggest Cubs' fan could hope for Rick Sutcliffe to have the kind of year he had in '84, but the veteran right-hander will get some support in the starting rotation from Dennis Eckersley, Dick Ruthven, Scott San­derson, and Steve Trout, as well as help from the bullpen in the person of Lee Smith. 
Philadelphia (81-81)-The Phillies fig­ure to be solid around the top ofthe lineup, but there are still some big question marks looming as opening day nears. Chief among these is the first-base situation, where the trading of Len Matuszek to Toronto leaves converted-outfielder John Russell as the leader at that position. The Phillies are already shaky on the right side of the infield with juan Samuel at second base, who has been hitting the cover offthe ball lately but continues to field ground balls like he's using a shovel. Mike Schmidt is solid at third base, but rookie manager John Felske will need solid seasons from shortstop Ivan Dejesus and catcher Ozzie Virgil if the Phils are going to go anywhere. 
The Phillies' bullpen, led by AI Holland and Bill Campbell, should get the job done, but once you get past Steve Carlton and John Denny, the starting staff is pretty suspect. 
Pittsburgh (75-87) -These days you have to wait on line to gripe if you're a Bruce Hurst, Bob Ojeda, Roger Clemens, AI Nipper and Dennis Boyd also began to come around last season. If new addition Bruce Kison has a good year, and ifreliever Bob Stanley returns to the form that saw him gain 33 saves in 1983, then Boston could make a run for the title. More likely, though, the Red Sox will finish in the middle of the pack. 
New York (87-75) -With the addition of outfielder Ricky Henderson, the Yankees lineup, already tough with Dave Winfield and Don Mattingly, may be the strongest in the division. If pitchers like Phil Niekro, Ron Guidry, and joe Cowley have good seasons, the Yankees could be very hard to beat, but the chances of the pitching being good enough to beat four excellent teams are not very promising. Niekro most likely will not repeat his 16-8 season, while Guidry's future doesn't look too productive. Look for New York to finish in the bottom half of the division. 
Cleveland (75-87) -Ifthe Indians were in the AL West, they might have a chance at winning the division with their decent pitching staff. In the East, though, Pat Corrales' team has little chance offinishing higher than fifth. If Bert Blyleven ( 19-7, 
2.87 ERA) and leading reliever Ernie Camacho repeat their 1984 performances, and if starters Neil Heaton and Rick Be­henna live up to their promise, the Indians could be spoilers. However, Cleveland needs production from hitters like Mel Hall and Joe Carter if it is going to finish higher than sixth. 
Milwaukee (67-94) -Now that George Bamberger is back in the Brewer dugout, Milwaukee's personnel looks a lot like that of the team that ended up going to the World Series a few years ago. However, the '85 edition is just a skeleton of that power­ful team because of injuries to many key players like Rollie Fingers, Paul Molitor, Robin Yount and Pete Vuckovich. If, by some miracle, players like Yount, Fingers, Cecil Cooper and Ben Oglivie return to their old form, Milwaukee could pull off some surprises. Realistically, though, the Brewers will be lucky to stay out ofthe cel­lar. 
member of Chuck Tanner's "grumble bunch." The latest trade demands are com­ing from lefthander John Candelaria, who is upset about being moved to the bullpen to replace the injured Rod Scurry. Scurry, by the way, also wants to be traded. 
Ifthe Pirates could ever get their act to­gether, they could make some noise in the division race. Last year, Pittsburgh had one ofthe best pitching staffs in the majors, but, unfortunately, it was teamed with an of­fense that had all the punch of a 50-year­old prizefighter. The off-season acquisitions of George Hendrick, Steve Kemp, and Sixto Lezcano should help the Pirates balance things out a little more, however. 
St. Louis (84-78) -The big question for Cardinal fans in '85 is, "Will there be life in the bullpen after Bruce Sutter?" Neil Allen will try to prove that there is, but the fact remains that the Cards went nowhere last year when theybad Sutter, so you can't ex­pect much of an improvement now that he's gone. Their starting pitching, however, which includes joaquin Andujar, Bob Forsch and John Tudor, as well as young talent like Danny Cox and Ricky Horton, is a strong point. 
But the Cards are still lacking of­fensively. Sure, plenty of Whitey Herzog's players could get speeding tickets on the basepaths, but one wonders ifthere will be anyone around who can drive those guys in. How many current Redbirds hit more than 11 home runs last season? And how many knocked in more than 70 runs? The answer to both questions equals the Cards chances ofwinning the NL East-zero. 
Montreal (78-83) -The fans in Montreal have got to be wondering what's going on. One year, they're watching Bill Virdon lead the Expos into contention, the next year the team is in fifth place under someone named Jim Fanning. Well this year, the Expos and their new manager, Buck Rodgers, might be better off trying their luck in the 25th century then in 1985. 
Gary Carter's loss will be felt at the plate, but also on the mound, where a question­able pitching staff will lose its veteran signal-caller. The starters, namely Steve Rogers, Bill Gullickson and the currently­disabled Charlie Lea, might not be that bad, but the relievers are closer to arsonists than firemen. 

Royals 
continuedfrom page 16 
talented Kent Hrbek set there. The real problem areas are short and catcher, where journeyman (and ex-Twin) Roy Smalley and Tim Laudner, rt.spectively, will attempt to plug the holes. Three-fifths of the pitching staff are proven com­modities, with Mike Smithson, John Butcher and future CyYounger Frank Viola locked in. Two rookies, starter Richard Yett and reliever Curt Wardle, should con­tribute a lot to the staff. Pitching problems, ifthere are to be any, will be in the bullpen, where last season Ron Davis started more fires than careless campers. 
Oakland (77-85) -The A's could be a surprise team in the West, but there a few things which must happen for that to be the case. 1.) Pitchers Rick Langford, Steve McCatty and Mike Norris must return to the form they showed a few years back when Billy Martin was managing the club. 2.) Dave Kingman must continue to hit with the power he did last year in racking up 35 HRs and 118 RBis. 3.) Newcomers like Dave Collins, Alfredo Griffin and jay Howell are going to have to fill the holes created by the departures of some key players. Ifall those things happen, the A's may be able to make a serious run in this division, although they aren't likely to win it. 
Chicago (74-88) -Tony LaRussa's prob­lems as White Sox manager figure to get only worse this season. While Chicago does have a legitimate shot at winning the division, it will be lucky to play .500 ball. There have been a few changes since last year's disappointing season that followed a first-place finish in 1983, but none of any great significance. It's really hard to see the Pale Hose doing much of anything unless Ron Kittle hits better than .215 and knocks in more than 74 runs, his totals oflast year. Add the continuing feud of Carlton Fisk with LaRussa, and it's easy to imagine a scenario where LaRussa is canned by the All-Star break. 
Seattle (74-88) -Seattle has never finished higher than fourth in the division, and don't count on the Mariners to change 
Padres 
continuedfrom page 16 
footed combination of Alan Wiggins and Garry Templeton can perform as well at the plate as in the field. Overall, it appears the surfwon't be the only thing that will be up in San Diego. 
Atlanta (80-82) -The only challenge that the Padres may have to stave off may come from the Atlanta Braves. When Ted Turner wasn't threatening to buy out CBS over the winter, he was making Bruce Sut­ter financially independent. His addition should help shore up a bullpen which did nothing for a pitching staff that is shameful after Pascual Perez. 
If the Braves are going to get the job done, they will need a healthy Bob Horner. Dale Murphy is a great hitter, but he won't get many pitches unless there is a power threat behind him. Youngster Brad Kom­minsk could provide that, but he is not reliable. Other than Claudell Washington, who hit only seven ofhis 17 homers in the last five months of the season, the Braves may as well be hitting with swizzle sticks. Still, Sutter may be able to save the Braves enough to keep them in contention. 
Los Angeles (79-83) -Oh, how the mighty have fallen. The once great Dodger infield of Garvey, Lopes, Russell, and Cey has been replaced by Brock, Sax, Ander­son, and Guerrero, which gathered more rays than grounders last year. That made things difficult for the Dodger starting staff, which comprises the best four-man rota­tion in the division. Other things which added to the ruin of the Dodgers were an anemic offense and a bullpen that was lo­cated in a drug dependency program in Santa Monica. Since neither of these items has been changed in the off-season, don't expect the Dodger fortunes to change much either. If depression truly causes people to eat more, the Dodger equipment manager is going to have to get Tom Lasorda's next uniform from Omar the Tent Maker. 
Cincinnati (70-92) -Pete Rose has to be the most secure manager in baseball, because there is no way Cincinnati man­agement is going ro fire him before he breaks Ty Cobb's record. He also has to be that this year. Nevertheless, Manager Chuck Cottier will attempt to do what Dar­rell Johnson, Maury Wills, Rene Lac­hemann and Del Crandall have been unable to do in the franchise's eight-year history -reach the .500 mark. The Kingdome was built to hold out the rain, but it will be raining baseballs a lot inside this year, as Mariner outfielders again can expect to see cannon shot after cannon shot heading their way. Key to Seattle suc­cess will be whether or not last year's A.L. Rookie of the Year Alvin Davis can avoid the sophomore slump. Expect to see some improvement from the Mariners' younger players, but Jack Perconte, Spike Owen and Larry Milbourne does not an infield make. 
California (81-81) The Angels managed to tie for second place last year, a virtue brought about only because of their residence in this division. Don't expect to see them higher than fourth any time after August 1, though. Prune juice and Geritol might be a good substitute for Gatorade in the dugout. Depending on whether or not Reggie Jackson DHs on any particular day, California starts six or seven players over age 30. In fact, rumor has it owner Gene Autry plans to start including Medicare in player contracts, and white-haired manager Gene Mauch supposedly was mis­taken as one of his players last month at spring training. 
As the wear and tear of the 162-game season begins to take its toll, watch for Cal­ifornia to fold up like an accordian. Mike Witt cannot carry the pitching staff alone, but he may be forced to try with the pitchers the Angels have. 
Texas (69-92) -Third-year Ranger manager Doug Rader is a guy who's been known not to take much of anything seriously. By the same token, it's hard to take Texas seriously as a contender for the AL West crown. The Rangers have some good arms, but the roster lists an equal number of not-so-good pitchers. Take, for example, Mitch Zwolensky, who spent last year at Oklahoma City. He sounds better suited to be a cowhand on Bonanza. The Texas outfield is fairly solid, boasting Larry Parrish, Billy Sample, George Wright and Gary Ward. There are so many holes in other places, though, as Buddy Bell is the only non-ding-dong in the infield. 
the most secure player in baseball, because there's no way his manager is going to keep him from playing. 
Unfortunately, Rose's young team may frustrate him more than his pursuit of the "Georgia Peach." Other than Mario Soto, and a speedy outfield consisting of Gary Redus, Duane Walker and Eric Davis, Rose doesn't have a lot going for his squad. Still, this is a young team on the rise, and Rose should be able to instill enough spirit in this team to drive them a little higher in the standings. 
Houston (80-82) -It used to be you had to hit the ball outside the Astrodome to get a homer in Houston, but the Astros brought in the fences and brought down their chances. The Astros have a bunch of guys that couldn't hit a home run in a phone booth, so the only people helped by the closer fences will be opposing hitters. 
Fortunately, Houston has a pretty good pitching staff, headlined byNolan Ryan and Joe Niekro. However, even those guys can't win ifthe Astros don't score any runs, and they won't score many if the heart of their lineup consists of the troika of Terry Puhl, Jose Cruz, and Phil Garner. There's less power there than during the NewYork City blackout. The Astros had better pray for a lot of rainouts, but since those don't occur too often in the Astrodome, it could be a long year. The suggestion for manager Bob Lillis: Rent instead ofbuying. 
San Fransisco (66-96) -What do the Giants and Michael jackson have in com­mon? They both wear a glove on one hand without a reason. This team committed the most errors in baseball last year, and they hold the title ofthe worst team in baseball for three reasons -hitting, pitching, and defense. 
Ifthere is a good point about the Giants, it's the fact they do have some rising stars. The outfield of Jeff Leonard, Chili Davis and Dan Gladden is one of the brightest in baseball, but the infield is a catastrophe waiting to happen, with johnny "Disaster" Lemaster leading the way. Bob Brenly is a good young catcher, but not too much will hit his mitt, as Giant pitchers will need a swivel on their necks. If there's anything for manager Jim Davenport to be happy about, it's the fact that he can't do any worse than last year's tandem ofFrank Rob­inson and Danny Ozark. Or can he? 
---~-----------~ 

The Observer :-uesday, April 2, 1985 -page 12 
•l 

Saint Mary's tennis team has no problems with Wisconsin foes in action over weekend 
By PAM CUSICK 
Sports Writer 
'Jbe Saint Mary's tennis team opened its spring season in Marquette this past weekend by defeating Marquette University 7-2, and by shutting out the University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee 9-0. The Belles' current spring record, following the dual match this weekend, is now 2-0. 
In singles competition against Marquette, the Belles split seL~ in three matches, while winning four ofsix matches. Sophomore Mary Carol Hall led the Belles at No. I with an im­pressive 6-4, 6-2 win. Second singles player Debbie Laverie lost her first set, 2-6, but came back in the last two, 6-1, 6-1 to claim the vic­tory. Meanwhile, third singles player Kristen Beck easily overcame her opponent by a score of 6-1, 6-3, to keep pace with sophomore Caroline Zern who won 6-0, 6-2 at the No. 4 slot. In tiebreaker matches, both fifth singles player Renee Yung and sixth singles player Kate McDevitt were unable to bounce back against tough opponenL~. falling, 5-7, 6-4, 7-6 and 7-6, 6-3, 4-6, respectively. 
'Ibe Belles' doubles teams swept Marquette by netting all their matches. Laverie and Hall paired up to win 6-0, 6-2, and the Zern and Yung combination took their opponents, 6-2, 4-6, 6-2 in three sets. The Beck and McDevitt doubles team, meanwhile, was able to wrap up the victorious day with a 7-6, 6-7, 7-5 vic­tory. 
"Marquette beat us in the fall and it was nice to beat them 7-2," said Head Coach and Atletic Dire<:torJoAnn Nester. 

Villanova players exult in glory of NCAA title 
had a vote, it would have been for "We are Number One! our whole team. I'd give it to every God, we are number one!" McLain one ofour guys, our coaches and the sang as he clutched the trophy. "We crowd. They deserve it." got here through a team effort." 
Another member of the Villanova party who deserved a special honor McLain was instrumental in break-received one. ing Georgetown's tenacious press 
Jake Nevin, the Wildcats' trainer throughout the second half. for the past 56 years, had the victory "Thank God for all the net hung around his neck by Pres-playgrounds in New York, where sley as Nevin sat in his wheelchair, a everyone wants to pick your victim of Lou Gehrig's disease. As pocket." Nevin threw a sly wink at two Vii-Senior forward Dwayne McClain lanova cheerleaders, his nephew, was asked for a one-word summa­John Morris, who attends to his tion of his feelings as he held the uncle, stood crying. game ball and his championship 
Villanova point guard Gary watch: Mclain walked around the court "Awesome," McClain said. "'Ibat's during the net-cutting ceremonies the same way everyone described with the trophy crushed to his chest. Georgetown." 
MOCKLSAT 
and 

Test-Taking Suggestions 
Sat. April13, 9am-12:30pm Sign up by April10 outside room 101 O'Shag 
WVFI-AMI WSND-FM STAFF MEMBERS: 
There will be a mandatory ALL STAFF MEETING tonight, April 2, at 7 pm in Washington Hall. 
This includes the following staffs: 
• 
News •Production •Sales/Publicity 

• 
Sports .Engineering eAM/FM 


BE THERE! 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. -Harold Jensen didn't start for the Villanova Wildcats last night, but he finished as a member of the national champions and on the all-tournament team for the NCAA Final Four. 
Jensen, a 6-S sophomore, carne off the bench for the Wildcats, who defeated Georgetown, 66-64, to take the national title as an unranked team with 10 losses. And jensen was the key, both from the field and the foul line. 
Vlllanova shot an NCAA record 79 percent from the field for the game, and Jensen made an important con­tribution by canning all five of his shoL<; from the field. The sport's newest super sub also made four of five free throws, all in the final 1 :24 ofplay. 
"This feels a little bit better be­cause I know I've already made the free throws," Jensen said after step­ping down from a chair on which he'd stood to take his victorysnips at the victory net. 
"'Ibis is an undescribale feeling and it's just great that it came with such a great bunch of guys and it's the culmination to an unbelieveable season filled with blood, sweat and tears," said Jensen, who scored 14 points. 
It was Georgetown, however, that had to hold back the tears of defeat as Jensen, an 81-percent free-throw shooter during the season, made 

-
Wildcats 
continuedfrom page 16 
McClain's three-point play kept them up, 41-36, but Georgetown came back and went ahead on David Wingate's jumper, 42-41, with 9:49 remaining. 
The lead changed hands five times, the last on a jumper by Pinckney, who was named the tournament Most Valuable Player. Mclain hit two free throws for a 49-46lead. 
Again the Wildcats went ahead by five on a Pinckney jumper but Georgetown came back with six straight poinL<;. Wingate's drive put the Hoyas ahead, 54-53. 
Pinckney then lost the ball trying to drive against Ewing and the Hoyas went into a spread offense. But Horace Broadnax, attempting to pass to Bill Martin, threw the ball off a Villanova player and it bounced off Broadnax's feet. 
Villanova then hit six straight points, with Jensen hit­ting a jumper, Pinckney rwo free throws andJensen two more free throws for a 59-54 advantage with 1:24 remaining. 
Broadnax then made a basket but Jensen, a reserve sophomore guard who played most of the game, con­nected for two more free throws. 
McClain then missed a free throw, snapping his string of 20 straight successful foul shots in the tournament, andJensen also missed the front end ofa one-and-one. 
Ewing's jam brought Georgetown to within 61-58 with 4 I seconds left but McClain then came through with two more free throws. A Wingate field goal pulled the Hoyas within three but McClain then hit another one-and-one with 1H seconds left for a 65-60 edge. 
Georgetown, the Big East tournament winner and the No. I ranked team for all but five weeks this season ­
Against Wisconsin-Milwaukee, the Belles were able to shut out all of their singles and doubles matches with ease. Hall won a shut out 6-0, 6-0 at No. I, while teammate Laverie dominated her opponent, 6-2, 6-1 in the second singles slot. '!bird singles player Beck rallied to win 6-2, 7-5, and Zero slammed her way to a 6-1, 6-1 at No. 4. To complete the sweep, Yung overcame her opponent, 6-4, 6­3, and McDevitt matched the feat, 6-1, 6-3, to win the number five and six slots. 
In doubles play, the Belles continued to smash their opponents. Laverie and Hall earned a 6-1, 6-4 victory, while the duo of Yung and Zern stayed ahead of their doubles opponent by a score of6-2, 6-3. This identical score was matched by teammates Beck and McDevitt to complete the doubles sweep. 
The Belles' strong performances against Marquette and the University of Wisconsin enabled the team to walk away proudly from the dual meet at Marquette. 
"They (Wisconsin) were not as strongas us, and we were playing well," commented Nester. "Also, we were psyched-up after beating Marquette." 
Things have started out well for the Belles this spring, after a successful fall season which saw the squad qualify for the Nationals, a post­season tournament to be held on May 20-21. Every member of the fall squad has returned for the spring, and number three singles player, Kristen Beck has since added her services to the squad. 
"We're looking forward to a strong, suc­

The Chicago Cubs and the St. Louis Car­dinalsare two teamsgoing in opposite di­rections this season as the Cubs will be fighting for the NL East title, while the 
cessful spring season," notes Nestor. Cards will be fighting to stay out of the 
two free throws with 1:24 remaining to give the Wildcats a 59-54 lead. He made two more 14 seconds later to maintain the five-point lead, then Jensen missed his only one with 52 seconds remaining after he had stolen the ball from Georgetown's David Wingate. 
The miss didn't affect Jensen as Dwayne McClain and Harold Pres­sley made five more free throws to seal the victory. 
Jensen was named to the all­tournament team, becoming the second non-starter to earn that dis­tinction in as many years. Geor­getown forward Michael Graham achieved the same honor last year. 
"Making the all-tournament team is really great, but I'm telling you. IfI 
following a Jan. 28 loss to Syracuse 65-63 -was in its third championship game of the four-year "Ewing Era," having won last year against Houston after losing by a point to North Carolina three years ago. Villanova, on the other hand, had made it to the final only once before, in 1971, when it lost to UCLA and later had the runner-up position stripped when it was found it star player, Howard Porter, had signed a pro basketball con­tract. 
The Wildcats' only other trip to the national semi­finals was in 1939, the tournament's first year. Then they were coached by AI Severence, the Villanova coach for 25 years. Severence died Monday in his Lexi­ngton hotel room, and the plyers dedicated the game to him. 
Ewing, the AP Player ofthe Year, hit seven of 13 shots from the field but grabbed only five rebounds. Wingate had 16 points, hitting eight of 14 from the field. 
Bill Martin and Reggie Williams also hit 10 points apiece for the Hoyas. All ofWilliams' points came in the first half. 
The Hoyas shot 52 percent from the field and went to the free-throw line only eight times, connecting on six of them. Villanova, meanwhile, shot an incredible 90 pe1 cent from the field in the second half. 
Villanova's hot shooting overcame 17 turnovers forced by the relentless Georgetown defense, which pressed and trapped virtually all the way. Pinckney, a 6-9 senior, hit on five-of-seven from the field, grabbed six rebounds and made two steals.Jensen, hitting all five. shots from the field and four-of-five from the free-throw line, scored 14 points and Pressley hit four-of-six from the field for 1 I points. 
Pressley, Mcl.ain and McClain each played the entire 40 minutes, Pinckney 3 7 and Jensen 34 after taking over for starter Dwight Wilbur. 
cellar. Members of the Obsf>n'er sports staffpredict u•hat will happen in all of baseball's dir•isions, starting on the back page. 
Oh, my 
--~-~­
--------~------------~­
-~ -~----~-~--~l 
I 
I 
l 

The Observer Tuesday, April2, 1985-page 13 

Senior Dave Obert, the No. 3 singles player on the Irish tennis team, had an easy time ofit this weekend against Valparaiso, win­ning his match, 6-1,6-2. Obert and his teammates will try to knock offButler today when the Bulldogs visit the Courtney Courts at3 
p.m. 

Come home to Roosevelt this summer and earn additional credits. 
Put your summer vacation to good use by taking courses at Roosevelt Univers*y's Chicago or Arlington Heights Campuses. 
This summer Roosevelt will offer a complete range of courses in arts and sciences, business, education and music. You'll benefit from small class sizes taught by professional 
instructors who take the time to make learning a personal experience. 
Thinking of working full or part-time this summer? 
Downtown Campus 430 S Michigan Avenue Chicago. IL 60605-1394 

Men's tennis team rolls to easy win over Valpo, takes on Butler today 
By SEAN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team, which scored an impressive 9­0 victory over Valparaiso on Satur­day, will play host to Butler University today at Courtney Tennis Courts. Even tougher competition will follow the Butler match, as three Big Ten teams will challenge the 9-4 Irish. 
Saturday's rout ofan overmatched Valparaiso squad did not see a single match go farther than the minimum two sets. Although, obviously, Val­paraiso could not give the Irish the toughest competition, they did give the young Notre Dame tennis team a chance to gain some much needed experience. 
"Our lack of experience has hurt us this year," says head coach Tom Fallon. "This team needs as much competition as possible." 
Only two players -junior captain Joe Nelligan and senior Mike Gibbons-of the six regulars on the squad have lettered previously. 
The tennis team will have the chance to gain even more experi­ence, however, as they take on four teams in the next eight days. Follow­ing today's match with Butler, Notre Dame will face Indiana at home, then Ohio State and Michigan on the road. 
"Big Ten schools are always tough," says Fallon. "Thursday's match against Indiana is a big one for us. They have a very strong program this year." 
Go ahead. Roosevelt's conven­ient locations and class sched­ules let you earn credits while you're earning cash, too. Classes are held days, eve­nings and weekends through­out the summer. Terms begin May 15 and July 8. So come to Roosevelt and take back the credits you need to bring you closer to a degree. 
Call (312) 341-2000 for a summer course schedule and admission information. 
Northwest Campus 410 N. Arlington Heights Road Arlington Heights. IL 60004 
;~ ~9-~!~~!!~!.~,.~!!~.~!!.!!
• College of Continuing Educat1on • College of Education • Graduate Division 

-------------SENDTODAY1 ------------uNiJ0402 
ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY, Office of Public Aelat1ons • 430 5. Michigan Avenue • Ch1cago. Illinois 60605-1394 

Please send me further infermation for Name____________________________________ study on the 0 undergraduate level Address___________________________________ 0 graduate level 
City___________________ state______zip,_____ wtthout regard to race. color. creed sex or phys•cal hand•cap 
Roosevelt Umvers•ty adm•ts students on the bas•s of •nd•v•dual ment 

Gibbons, a three-year letter win­
ner, agrees with his coach's assess­
ment. 
"This is the important part of our schedule," says Gibbons. "Last year, we lost 5-4 to Ohio State and 5-4 to Michigan. We would definitely like to beat them this year." 
This year's Irish team consists of Nelligan and Gibbons in the one and two singles spots, respectively. Freshman Dan Walsh earned the number three singles position this season, while senior Dave Obert fol­lows in the number four slot. Sopho­more Tom Grier is number five this year, followed by another freshman, Paul Daggs, in the sixth and final singles position. These six players also make up Notre Dame's three doubles teams. 
Because of the transfer of sopho­more Paul Ghidotti, who was the number three singles player and a doubles player as well last semester, the Irish doubles teams have had to be repaired. 
"Doubles was a problem this year 
because of (Ghidotti's) transfer," 
says Coach Fallon. "It's always tough when you have new people playing together. But they have been playing well recently." 
Judging from Notre Dame's singles record of9-4 this spring, they too have been playing well recently. 
This week's three Big Ten matches should provide the young Irish tennis team with a chance to show just how much they have learned. 
Saturday's Results Notre Dame 9. Valparaiso 0 
Singles 
No.1~ joe Nelligan (ND) del. Greg Houck (V), 7~ 
5,6~2. 
No.2~ Dan Walsh (NO) del. john Mulgrew (V), 6~ 3,6-0. 
No. 3 -Dave Obert (ND) de[ Dan Drehmel (V), 
6~ 1,6-2. No.4~ Torn Grier(ND) def Thad Saleska(V), 6~ 1,6~ 
2~ 
No.5~ Paul Daggs (NO) del. Dan McGrath (V), 6~ 1,6-1. No.6· Matt Coash (NO) def. Tony Alhregts (V). 6-2,6-0. Doubles No.1~ Obert-Grier (NO) def. Houck-Mu1grcw (V), 6·4,6~2. 
No. 2 -Ndligan·Daggs ( ND) def. Drehmd·Roger 
Hensley (V), 6·0,6·4. No.3~ Walsh-Coash def. McGrath-Saleska(V), 6·2,6~ 2. 

Villanova celebrates win 
Associated Press 
VILLANOVA, Pa.-Wild cheering erupted from dormitories, rolls of toilet paper arched across the sky and firecrackers exploded last night as Villanova upset top-ranked Georgetown for the NCAA bas­ketball title. 
"I'm ecstatic -I knew they were going to do it!" said freshman Doug Camburn as he was covered with a spray of beer. "This is supposed to be a dry campus, but this is amazing! Ifthis is college life, this is great!" 
Within five minutes after the final buzzer in Lexington, Ky., signaled the 66-64 win and Villanova's first basketball championship, at least 300 students filled the quadrangle, their screams clashing with rock music blaring from dorm windows and honking car horns. 
Achant of"Eddie is God" went up throughout the Roman Catholic campus as a banner in tribute to 6-9 senior center Ed Pinckney was illuminated in a dorm window. 
"Every expert was proved wrong," said junior Cedric Vaughn of Los Angeles. ''I'm so glad I went to Villanova -this is the world's greatest university!" 
The celebration will continue today when the team arrives at Philadelphia International Airport and heads downtown for a noon parade and ceremony. 
SOberingA.cMce / , 
cansavea~.;,:cr-1 
Think Before You Dririk /~~
Before You Drive ·-'/ · ·~ · 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
(5 x 10 spaces available) 
Call 259-0335 to reserve space self lock storage of McKinley 
816 East McKinley Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 

Off Campus Seniors Pickup your senior month booklets 
April 2nd & April 3d fromll:00-1:00 at the South Dining HaD or 5:00-7:00 in LaFortune at the Ombud Desk 
The Observer Tuesday, April 2, 1985 -page 14 
Offensive coaches busy readying 1985 Notre Dame attack 
By MARlY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
The remaining three weeks of spring football will be cr.itical to the construction of the Notre Dame of­fense. In fact, if things go well, the Irish could hit new heights this year in offensive production. 
"!be foundation of any success that occurs, though, will not rest solely on the arm of quarterback 

Jim Higgins 
Steve Beuerlein or the legs of tail­back Allen Pinkett. 
Much of success will depend on the five architects of the Notre Dame offense -the coaching staff. These men are Offensive Coordina­tor Mike Stock, Assistant Head Coach Mal Moore, quarterback coach Ron Hudson, and offensive line coaches Carl Selmer and Jim Higgins. 
From all indications, the Irish of­fensc will be in good hands, for this year's coaching staff comes in with not only some pretty impressive credentials, but with the added ad­vantage of knowing the work of all the other members on the staff. This year, for the first time in the five-year tenure of Gerry Faust, all five offen­sive coaches are returning to the staff. 
"We're going to benefit by having them all return," says Faust. "It's un­usual to have all your coaches to­gether for more than one season, particularly now with the USFL creatingso many job opportunities." 
Stock, who spent six years as an Irish assistant under Ara Parseghian, was one coach who took a coaching job in the USFL. The Northwestern graduate returned to Notre Dame a year later, however, in the capacity ofpass receivers coach under Faust. 
The 1985 season will be Stock's third season ofduty under Faust, but it promises to be a unique challenge in that he will be serving as offensive coordinator as well as pass receivers coach. Last year's offensive coordin­ator, Ron Hudson, gave up the duty to concentrate more closely on the young quarterbacks. '!be role of of­fensive coordinator will not be en­tirely new to Stock, though, for he held that exact role for three seasons at the University of Wisconsin. 
"Basically, the offensive coach assumes the responsibility ofsetting up the game plan and the general of­fensive philosophy," says Stock. "The ideas will be group-oriented, 

l 
AHention Saint Mary's writers 
(sports and news) 

I t 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all Observer writers Tuesday, April 2 at 6:30 in 306 Haggar College Center. Anyone not able to attend should call Tess Guarino at 

r 
239-5313. All interested in writing are invited 

to attend. l 
t 
I 

NEW~ 
University of Notre Dame 
Foreign Study P1ugra1n in 
Jerusalem, Israel 
Undergraduales t. Selected Graduate Students 
Spend A Semester/Year in The Holy Land 
Information Meeting 
Tuesday, April 2 
6:30 l).m. Sate1lit~ Room 242, O'ShauHhnessy 
A.Q.QlY-Now For Fall, Year, or Spring 

though, as they always have been in  far. They certainly still have a bit to  Dame with Gt;rry Faust from Moel·  
the past."  go, but they arc coming along."  ler High School.  
Currently, Stock is working with  Selmer has come a long way, him­ The final link to the offensive  
the other coaches to fill the holes  self. A veteran ofover 2 5 years in the  chain is Assistant Head Coach Mal  
left in the lineup from graduation.  college coaching ranks, he has  Moore. In addition to the play­ 
served as the head coach of Miami  calling tasks of the position, Moore  
"For the coaches, it will be a short  (Fla.), and as the offensive line coach  also works as the running back  
spring," notes Stock. "We're ex­ for the University of Nebraska. His  coach and special teams coach. The  
perimenting both with changes in  title at Notre Dame is Head Offen­ protege of Bear Bryant is in his third  
positioning, and with the general of­ sive line Coach, but he realizes that  year as an Irish Notre Dame assistant  
fensive philosophy."  the work of his fellow line coach,  after 18 sea~ons as an aide at Ala­ 
Hudson's duties this year, mean­ Higgins, is just as important.  bama.  
while, will be a lot simpler to  
explain. He will not even help call  "(Head Offensive Line Coach) is  
offensive plays, as he did last year.  just a fancy title," Selmer says.  
He will simply work with the three  "Ba~ically, we divide the line up in  
freshmen quarterbacks -Terry  such a way that I take the strong-side  
Andrysiak, Tom Byrne and Pat  players, while Coach Higgins takes  
Pesavento. This is a task which is  the quick side. I deal with the strong  
simple to explain, but not simple it­ tackles, the strong guards, and the  
self.  tight ends when they work on block­ 
"Quite simply, I only watch the  ing."  
quarterbacks," says Hudson. "With  As well a~ teaching the necessary  
the injury to Steve ( Beuerlein) last  blocking schemes for the offense,  
year, and with the youthful quarter­ Selmer will be attempting to find a  
backs that we have, performing both  replacement for all-America guard  
duties would have been too much.  Larry Williams this spring.  
My duty will be to prepare them to  
play for us.  "In spring practice, we're just  
Hudson, whose past experience  working on the basics, and trying to  Carl Selmer  
includes stops at UCLA, Stanford,  fill in the gaps left from graduation,"  
Oregon and California, has found  says Selmer. "We are working on  "There is an awful lot of experi­ 
this, his fourth spring season at  pass blocking, although we have lim­ ence among the coaches here, on  
Notre Dame, to be especially chal­ ited the passing to instill confidence  both sides of the ball," says Stock.  
lenging.  in our young quarterbacks. Even so,  "Everyone's imput is a benefit, and  
"We want the quarterbacks to fed  we will be able to protect the passer  that mixture of ideas will be filtered  
comfortable enough so that they can  when the time comes."  into the personality of this team."  
go into a game in the fall and move  Higgins, the other offensive line  
the offense. So far, we're moving  coach, works on the "quick side" of  If the Notre Dame football team  
things along slowly for we don't  the line with the centers, the quick  can put together a strong season this  
want to put too much on them too  tackles, and the quick guards. He is  fall, it will be largely because of this  
fast.  beginning his fifth season as line  strong team of offensive coaches  
"But they have all played well so  coach, as he made the move to Notre  who is responsible for molding it.  

• 


Tuesday, April 2 

9-close

TONIGHT! $1.00 IMPORTS 
Wednesday, April 3 
9-close

TOMORROW NIGHT QUARTER BEERS 
Thursday, April4 Ifyou knock on ourdoor and there's no answer~ it's because we're closed. Ifthere is an answer~ it's because we're being ripped off, and the guy mightget real violentso you better get the heck out ofthere. 
--------------------------~--------­
~4(Jt~C3L~------------------------------------------T_u_e_sd_a_y_,A_p_r_il_2_,_19_8_s
___P_a_g_e_1_5 

Bloom County 

Zeto 
DOBY DRoPS WCK ••• 
AND THROWS 
TO HIS FAVORITE 
RECEIVER, Z ETO 
McSPOSH~ 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Kevin Walsh 
••• BUT 
UP B '1' A WIRE"! 
,,
' ' 


"No way. I'll put my magazine down when you put yours down." 
Campus 
•· Blood Drive Sign-ups, St. Mary's Dining Hall, Blood Drive To Be Held On April 11 & 12, Sponsored by St. Mary's Senior Class. 
Dinner Menus

•1 
0 a.m. · 12 p.m. & 1 · 2:30 p.m. -Finance Club Elections, Hayes Healy Lobby. 


Notre Dame

•6:30 
p.m. -Informational Meeting, Foreign 

Roast pork loinStudies Program in Jerusalem, Israel, Room Mastacoli242 O'Shaughnessy. 

Baked sole with rice dressing
•7 p.m. · Discussion, "Communications in the Business Context," Duane Daering, CTS 
Saint Mary's

Corporation, Holy Cross Parlor (SMC), Easter Buffet 
Sponsored by SMC Communications Club, Free. 
•8 p.m. · Meeting, Students for the Freeze, Center for Social Concerns. 
TV Tonight 
8:00p.m. 16 TheA-Team ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 The Lucie Arnaz Show 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Three's A Crowd 28 Newswatch 28 34 Nova 34 Body Electric 
8:30p.m. 22 The Jeffersons 11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 28 Who's the Boss? 22 Fall Guy/Columbo 
9:00p.m. 16 Movie-A.D. (Pt. III) 28 ABC News Nightline 22 Movie-Guilty Conscience 34 Movie: "Pride of the Bowery" 28 MacGruder & Loud 12:00a.m. 28 Love Connection 34 Uving With Animals 12:30a.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 
!O:OOp.m. 28 Moonlighting 2:00a.m. 22 Nightwatch 34 Austin City Umits 
You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 




~ff> Custom-designed ~ Imprinted Sportswear 
T -shirts * Pullovers * Sweatshirts Polos • Sweaters * More 
SE corner of LaFortune Basement (Below the Deli) OPEN MWF 2:30-4:30 TT 3:30-5:30 

(Formerly the N.D. T-Shirt Shop) 239-5157 
IRISH GARDENS * IRISH GARDENS 
FORALLYOVR 
FLORAL NEEDS 
MON-SAT 12:30-5:30 
or 

DIAL 283-4242 
Order early for corsages and wrapped flowers 

Tuesday, April 2, 1985 -page 16 

Can anyone beat the Hoyas? Better believe it! 
Villanova uses blistering shooting to upset Georgetown for NCAA title 
~-.,. ,. ...... -... 
. / -.. . .. ­
--............ 
. .... 
·~. ........__
3"';.,
,~ ..:J 
( 
l 
Sony about that, Patrick Ewing, but the Vtllanova Wildcats answered the ques­tion, "Can anybody beat Georgetown?" by krwcki11g off the Hoyas, 66-64, last night in Lexi11gton, Ky. Led by seniors 
At'rhoto 
Dwayne McClain, Ed Pinckney and Gary Mclain, the Wildcats set an NCAA Tourn­ament record by making 79 percent of their shotsfrom thefield. 

Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. -Coach Rollie Massimino said unranked Villanova would have to play a perfect game to beat No. I Georgetown and keep the Hoyas from winning their second straight national championship. 
His Wildcats, a nine-point underdog, did just that, and came away with a stunning 66­64 victory last night in the final of the NCAA basketball tournament. 
"No one thought we could do it, but I did," said Massimino, whose team won the title with the worst record ever among NCAA champions, 2 5-1 0. 
The Wildcats shot 90 percent from the field in the second half as part of all-time tourna­ment record 78.6 percent, hitting 22 of 28 shots, but a couple of the heroes said there was more to the victory. 
"We worked so hard. Nobody in Ameriea knows how hard Villanova worked," said senior guard Gary McLain. "This is what hap­pens when you work so hard. You are No. 1." 
The victory denied three-time all-America Patrick Ewing a title in his final game. The 7-0 center was held to 14 points and was kept from dominating the action. 
"You can't be intimidated in a game like this," said Villanova's Ed Pinckney, who battled Ewing in the pivot all night. "It was the last game of the year -of my career. I had to play my hardest" 
Georgetown had won I 7 straight games and completed the season with a 35-3 record and a 121-23 record during Ewing's four-year career. Villanova was beaten twice by the Hoyas during the regular Big Ea..'lt season, 52­50 in overtime and 57-50, and Georgetown entered the game a nine-point favorite. 
Dwayne McClain hit two free throws and Harold Pressley one of two to provide the margin ofvictory, with Georgetown's Michael jackson completing the scoring with a field goal with four seconds remaining. 
McClain, hitting five of seven field goals, paced Villanova with 17 points and 6-9 Pinckney scored 16. 
The Wildcats als.o hit 22 of 27 free throws and matched the Hoyas on the boards with 17 rebounds. 
Georgetown was trying to become only the seventh team and the first since UCLA in 1973 to repeat as NCAA champions. They were being rated among the greatest teams of all time, after breezing through the last part of their schedule and looking stronger with each game. 
But Villanova, which finished in a third­place tie in the Big East Conference with Syracuse, began a six-game winning streak in the tournament, knocking off other ranked teams such as No. 2 Michigan and No. "i Memphis State in Saturday's semifinal. 
Their upset victory was akin to that of North Carolina State, which won the NC..AA title two years ago as an overwhelming under­dog. But that N.C. State team finished with one more victory against its I 0 losses, and the 16th ranking in the final pre-tournament poll. All Villanova had to show was hope as it en­tered its sixth consecutive NCAA tournament, a competition it never had won. 
The Wildcats pulled ahead 29-ZH at halftime and, after Ewing hit an opening jumper in the second half, they went up 36-30 with Harold Jensen's ba..'lket, a three-point play by Pinckney and a jumper by Gary McLain. 
see WILDCATS', page 12 

Some predictions for the 1985 base ball season 
Michael Sullivan 
Sports Writer 
AL East 
During the past several years, most of 
the teams in the American League East 
have been cursed at one time or another by 
being members of baseball's toughest divi­
sion. Only one team from the division can 
go to the playoffs each year even though 
the second-and third-place teams in the AL 
East are usually among the top four teams 
in the major leagues. 
The division has been very strong the 
last two years, with the AL East winner rol­
ling through the playoffs to win the world 
championship. This season, though, will 
see the division become possibly the 
strongest and most competitive in major 
league history. 
Five teams should challenge to succeed 
Detroit as the AL East champ, with the win­
ner most likely becoming the world cham­
pion. It's almost a shame that there 
couldn't be an eight-team playoff in Octo­
ber -five teams from the AL East and one 
each from the other divisions-but it would 
be wrong to change the last legitimate 
playoffsystem in pro sports. 
Anyway, Detroit hao; got to be favored 
because it ha..'l almost the same team as it 
did last year, but look for Boston, Bal­
timore, NewYorkand, especially, Toronto, 
to give the Tigers all they can handle. 
Detroit (104-50) -It was a 35-5 start 
that gave the Tigers a division title last 
season, but don't think that will happen 
again. If the world champs are going to 
repeat, they're going to have strong years 
from the men up the middle -catcher 
Lance Parrish, shortstop Alan Trammell, 
second baseman Lou Whittaker, and 
centerfielder Chet Lemon -and hope that 
reliever Willie Hernandez has another 
see TIGERS, page 11 


Jeff Blumb 
Sports Editor 
AL West 
In a division weaker than the social life at Notre Dame, the American League West, a number of teams have a fair chance to rise to the top simply by getting hot for an ex­tended period of time. This year, the AL West shapes up with Kansas City, Min­nesota, Oakland and Chicago as legitimate title contenders, while Seattle, California and Texas will lag behind miserably. 
Kansas City (84-78) -After a slow start in 1984, manager Dick Howser really had the Royals playing well by season's end. The late-season Royal· run was good enough to edge out the Twins and Angels for first place. If Kansas City can continue to play as well this season, it should have no difficulty running away with this divi­sion. But to do that, the Royals must see continued improvement from all of their younger players, especially pitchers Mark Gubicza, Bret Saberhagen and Bud Black. The big trouble spot in KC. may be catcher, where veteran John Wathan couldn't hit a medicine ball last season and Don Slaught did little better. 
Still, if stopper Dan Quisenberry can do the same kind of job he did last year and if third baseman George Brett does in fact play as well as the "experts" are predicting he will, the problem at catcher may not matter. 
Minnesota (81-81)-Surprise, Surprise. That was the Minnesota Twins contending for the division title until the last week of the season in 1984. Ifa few things fall into place for the boys from the Land of 10,000 Lakes, they may be able to come out on top this year. The outfield is solid with Tom Brunansky, Kirby Puckett and Mickey Hatcher, as is first base with the multi-
see ROYALS, page 11 

Larry Burke 
Assistant Sports Editor · 

NL East 

What a difference a year makes. 
Last spring, anyone who picked the New York Mets or Chicago Cubs to win he Na­tional League East would have probably found themselves watching baseball in a rubber room. But, by now, it's become painfully obvious to fans in Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, St. Louis, and Montreal that the balance of power in this division has offi­cially shifted. 
This year, most of the so-called experts are tabbing the Mets and Cubs as the teams to beat in the NL East, and this writer (who, incidentally, removed himself from the "expert" category by picking the Pirates last season) offers some predictions for the '8S season while also taking a stab at redemption after last year's debacle. 
New York (90-72) -The acquisition of Gary Carter should be the difference be­rween the Mets being a good team and a great team in '85. Offensively, the lineup has plenty of punch with Carter joining Darryl Strawberry and Keith Hernandez in the heart of the batting order, followed by veterans George Foster and Ray Knight. Of those five, all but Knight knocked in at least 86 runs last year. Centerfielder Mookie Wilson is still nursing a sore shoulder, but should be ready by opening day. Rafael Santana, who handled the shortstop posi­tion well last year, returns in a starting role. 
The Mets' biggest weakness is in the pitching staff, where there is a goldmine of talent but not a lot of experience. Dwight Gooden, Ron Darling, Bruce Berenyi and Sid Fernandez are the top four starters, but only Berenyi has more than a year ofmajor­league experience. Veteran Ed Lynch will open the season as the fifth starter, but 
see METS, page 11 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 

NL West 
If you're looking for a division which is going to be highly competitive with a lot of great teams, then you have come to the wrong place. This is the National League Worst, I mean West, and it is merely the senior circuit's answer to the American League Worst, uh, West. 
Last year, this division was as successful as an Ohio savings and loan. The Padres won by default, because they were the only team to finish over .<;00. While San Diego should get a little more competition this year, it appears the Padres should be in the National League playoffs. A word of warning, though: Look out for the Braves. If Bruce Sutter is the biggest thing to hit At­lanta since General Sherman, the Braves may be able to sneak into the top spot. 
San Diego (92-70)-How the West was won in 1984 was the fact the Padres had two things nobody else in the division had­hitting and pitching. For those same reasons, San Diego should repeat as West Division champions in 1985. While nobody on the starting staff is a Cy Young candidate, Dick Williams' starters get the job done as they proved last year by leading the league in shutouts. The loss of Tim Lollar is negated by the addition ofthe durable Lamarr Hoyt, who should have a better year in his first National League season than his 13-18 campaign of a year ago with the White Sox. Goose Gossage spearheads the bullpen, and he will get plenty of help from table-setters Craig Lef­ferts and Tim Stoddard. 
On offense, the Padres have a fine blend of speed and power. Steve Garvey headlines a group offive Padres who could hit 20 homers or more, while the fleet-
see PADRES, page 11 






