
~.· 
.. 
ND /SMC in the '50s -page 7 

VOL XIX, NO. 99 the independent ~tudent IH:w~papt-r ~erving notre Jame and saint mary's THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1985 
University says investments do not support apartheid 
By MARK DILLON StaffReporter  ster from Philadelphia, are a "stringent code of conduct that will help raise up the blacks  improve in the areas the audit may have found to be deficient." University Vice . President for  rights. The basic policy is that Notre Dame will not invest in any com­ structive change or are they con­tributing, through taxes for example, to the apartheid system  
Some  of Notre  Dame  invest­ economically, educationally, and  Business  Affairs  Thomas  Mason  pany that does not:  ofgovernment?  
ments are with corporations which have operations in South Africa, but if any of these compan­ies violate a set of strict human­ socially." The guidlelines include such things as non-segregation, equal work for equal pay, a call for more  said, "Notre Dame does have in­vestments in South Africa from a standpoint that it invests in multi­national corporations such as Gen­ •Demonstrate determination to in­itiate progressive employment practices, •Contribute more to the welfare of  The Notre Dame position is that the presence of U.S. corporations, inwhich the University invests, is a positive force in effecting gradual  
rights principles, would divest.  the  University  non-white management, and an improvement in the quality of life  eral Electric which have  or General Motors, activities in South  non-whites than to strengthen the apartheid regime, and  and peaceful change through eco­nomic support of non-whites, cor­ 
In fact, it has happened once already, according to Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president. "One corporation said they would not be bullied by the Sul­livan Principles, so we divested them," Hesburgh said. The Sullivan Prin~iples are gen­erally accepted as the guidelines for determining ethical investment in South Africa. President Reagan and many others have criticized the white-ruled nation whose form  outside the work place through schoob and health programs. · All the 20 to 2<; companies with which Notre IJame has invest­ments are signcrs oftht: principles. Each ofthe signatory companies is monitored by an annual audit of their South African performance, with regard to the Sullivan Prin­ciples, by the Cambridge, Mass., consulting firm of Arthur D. Little, Inc. The results of these audits are made pnhlil: University Investments Officer  Africa." Notre Dame, however, has no direct investments in South Africa. Zang said, "Notre Dame does not own any securities in any South African companies." Zang also said that all Notre Dame investments in South Africa are subject to "the Notre Dame policy statement concerning the University's share holder responsi­bility regarding investments in South Africa." This policy, passed by the Board  •Adopt the Sullivan Principles. Although Notre Dame does not have any direct investments in South Africa it may be argued that the University does indirectly con­tribute to the South African gov­ernment by investing in U.S. companies in South Africa. Said Zang, "Notre Dame does not support any corporation that does not support racial progress. However, the mere presence of these large corporations may con­tribute to apartheid."  porate sponsorship of social programs, and subtle pressure ap­plied to the government. Hesburgh said, "The presence of U.S. corporations is giving 60,000 non-whites opportunities they would not otherwise have. If we pull out now," as some have sug­gested to force apartheid to change, "they would all go back to zilch." Hesburgh, in conjunction with 14 other university and college presidents, recently issued a state­ 
of government, called apartheid, discriminates black citizens.  Father Zang said. livan encourages  'Reverend Sul­all prestigious  of Trustees in 1978, was imple­mented to exclude the possibility  This is the focus of the major problem in South Africa. By their  ment calling for U.S. corporations in South Africa to press for reform  
The principles, developed by Rev. Leon Sullivan, a Baptist mini­ stockholdns. such as Notre Dame, to apply pn;ssure to companies to  of University· investments contri­buting to the violation of human  presence, are large multi-national corporations helping to effect con- in influx laws, which are the cor­nerstones ofthe apartheid system.  

Sportsmanlike conduct 
This group ofNotre Damefootball players huddles skating purtr <tl l ..\A. Koller Rink. The event was around a young u•uman ut last night's roller sponsored h1· the Jfillions AgainstM.S. Committee. 

ND grad receives governor's award 
ByJOHN HINES tounded the lnd1ana Arts Commis­the Arts. He was the only Hoosier to StaffReporter sion by obtaining a !20,000 block serve on the council with the likes of grant from the National Endowment Rosalind Russell, Robert Stack, and 
A Notre Dame business graduate for the Arts. and the approval ofthen Celeste Holm during those six years. and author of research and writings Governor Edgar Whitcomb in the 
Bergin has also served as a mem­in the area of economic growth and late 60's. More recently Bergin has ber of the Rockefeller Panel, a mem­development seems an unlikely instituted the Artists in the Schools ber of the National Committee for recipient of the Governor's Arts program in which artists from the Cultural Resources at the Lincoln Award. local community visit school Center, as a commissioner of the But that's what Thomas Bergin, children to share their work with state arts agency for seven years and dean of the Center for Continuing the students. 
a member ofthe International Coun­Education, received Tuesday in In­"This award is first a recognition cil of Fine Arts Deans. Currently, hedianapolis in recognition of his con­of the time, effort and energ} has taken special interest in his role tributions to the arts in Indiana. devoted to acquainting the educa­as the National Board Director of Governor Robert Orr addressed tional system of northern Indiana Young Audiences. Inc. 
and presented the award to Bergin with the arts. Second, it's a pres­and four others before members of tigious acknowledgement of Others honored m the awards cer­the Indiana General Assembly in the people's concern for the arts, and emony were Jared Carter, In­State Capitol Rotunda. that people in small towns and com­dianapolis writer and lecturer; 
"I share the pride of the award munities can be acquainted with the Margaret Harshaw, professor of with the Notre Dame community arts if only the legislature will ap­music at Indiana University, and and northern Indiana," said Bergin. prove the funds," said Bergin. Steve Tesich, whose Academy 
Though not an artist himself, Ber­Bergin spent six years as one of Award-winning screenplay gin has been instrumental in pro­former President Jimmy Carter's ap­"Breaking Away" was set in grams that benefit the arts. He pointees to the National Council of Bloomington. 

Thatcher discusses arms control talks 
The Associated Press Urging Americans not to give fin­
ancial aid to the IRA, she said the 
WASHINGTON-Amid extraordi­money "is used the buy the deaths of nary security precautions, British Irishmen, north and south of the Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher border." cautioned Congress yesterday that Reiterating her support of U.S. re­the Soviet Union will attempt to searc)l on a "Star Wars" shield in divide the West during nuclear arms space against nuclear weapons, the control talks and warned "we should prime minister said, "The United not expect too much too soon" from States must not fall behind the work the negotiations. being done by the Soviet Union." 
Echoing a theme sounded by Pres­Even so, a British official who ac­ident Reagan, Mrs. Thatcher said, companied Mrs. Thatcher, speaking "Let us be under no illusions: it is our only on condition he not be identi­strength and not their goodwill that fied, said Mrs. Thatcher "draws a has brought the Soviet Union to the clear distinction" between research negotiating table in Geneva." and actual deployment, and feels 
that deployment must be subject toMrs. Thatcher was the first British negotiations with Moscow.
prime minister to address a joint While Reagan has held out themeeting of the House and Senate hope that Star Wars will lead to thesince Winston Churchill did so on abolition of all nuclear weapons,Jan. 17, 1952. After her speech, Mrs. Thatcher sounded a differentwhich was interrupted ?4 times by theme, quoting from Churchill'sapplause, she went to the White 1952 address to Congress: "Be care­House to confer with Reagan on ful above all things not to let go of arms control, America's huge the atomic weapon until you arebudget deficit and the soaring U.S. 
sure, and more than sure, that otherdollar. 
means ofpreserving the peace are inThe ornate House chamber was your hands."
packed by members of the Senate She added, "Thirty-three years on,and House, assembled in a joint those weapons are still keeping themeeting, and members of the peace."
Cabinet and diplomatic corps. Be­Noting the resumption of U.S.­
hind Thatcher sat Vice President Soviet arms control talks in GenevaGeorge Bush and House Spe;tker on March 12, Mrs. Thatcher said:'Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., D-Mass. 
"They will be intricate, complex and 
On the streets outside, an esti­demanding. And, we should not ex­mated 500 demonstrators shouted, pect too much too soon. "IRA all the Way," and "Maggie, "We must recognize that we shall Maggie, Maggie · out, out, out." face a Soviet politkal offensive de­Some carried signs reading, "Victory signed to sow differences among us, to the IRA" and "IRA Freedom calculated to create infirmity ofpur­Fighters." pose, to impair resolve and even to 
Armed security police, posted 1 0 arouse fear in the hearts of our feet apart, lined the streets around people," she said. the Capitol. Mrs. Thatcher said: "We know 
Inside the building, Mrs. Thatcher that om alliance, ifit holds firm, can­denounced the Irish Republican not be defeated. But it could be out­Army as "the enemies ofdemocracy flanked. It is among the unfree and and of freedom, too." She said she the underfed that subversion takes and Irish Prime Minister Garret root." FitzGerald are united in seeking a Although Congress is deeply political solution to the problems of Northern Ireland. see THATCHER, page 3 

The Observer 

In Brief 
An Tostal Week was one of the events discussed at last night's meeting ofthe Saint Mary's Programming Board. Many events have already been planned for the festival, scheduled for April24-28, some of which will take place at Saint Mary's. The Saint Mary's bas­ketball team will meet Purdue ofCalumet tonight at 7:30. Tomorrow night, the Chameleon Club will have a Comedian Night at the Haggar College Center from 5 until 7:30. Applications for new student gov­ernment commissioners will be available soon. Information con­cerning fr<~shman and transfer student orientation positions will be available beginning tonight at Haggar. 
A student sit-in protest of apartheid followed a rally at Stanford University, and the protesters presented administra­tors with petitions calling for immediate divestment of Stanford's stock in Motorola. A student referendum calling for divestment from Motorola passed with more than 80 percent ofthe vote last fall.-The Obseroer 
Summer jobs will again be available at Cape Cod, Massa­chusetts, and the islands of Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard to col­lege students and teachers from all over the country. According to Bonnie Bassett, spokesperson for the Cape Cod Summerjob Bureau, "the recent explosive growth in tourism here has created unprece­dented scrambling by businesses looking for summer help. The seasonal job market has never been this good ... the summer jobs are waiting, now we just need people to fill them." Bassett adds that now is the time to act while the selection is best. For detailed information on how to apply send a LONG self-addressed STAMPED envelope to: 1985 SUMMERJOBS PROGRAM, Box 594, Room 12, Barnstable, MA 02630. -Tbe Obseroer 
Applications are available beginning today in 
the Office of Student Residences for positions of Summer Manager and/or Assistant Manager. They may be picked up in Room 315 in the Administration Building. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
TheJunior Class is sponsoring a night at Mr. D's Can­ning Factory tonight beginning at 9. All students are welcome to attend and there will be a $2 cover charge. Door prizes will be awarded from Domino's Pizza and mall merchants. All proceeds from the event will go the the MS fund. -The Obseroer 
The Saint Mary's Peacemakers wm meet 
today at 4 in the Social Services Ministry Office, Room 11, Holy Cross Hall. Plans for official recognition as a campus group will be reviewed. The Hunger Coalition program for the week of February 24, The Latin America awareness program in March, and the Nuclear Disarmament awareness program in April will be discussed at the meeting. The Obseroer 
The United Religious Community wm 
sponsor two workshops for volunteers who work in its overnight shelter for the homeless located in the Maranatha Temple, 760 S. Michigan Street, South Bend. joseph Bleich, therapist for the Madison Center who also works with psychiatric patients at Memorial Hospital, will lead a workshop on how to respond to "street people" who have emotional problems, on Wednesday, Feb. 27, 7 p.m., at the Fatima Retreat Center. The second workshop, dealing with CPR training, will be held in early in March. Pre­registration is necessary for the CPR session and may be done by calling the IJRC office 282-2397.-The Obseroer 
The American Catholic Studies seminar 
sponsored by the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism will meet again today at 4 in the Memorial Library lounge. Professor Mark Noll of Wheaton College will discuss his paper, "The Eclipse of Old Hostilities between, and the Potential for New Strife among, Catholics and Protestants since Vatican II."-The Obseroer 

Weather 
Increasing cloudiness today 
with a 50 percent chance of rain in the after­noon. Warmer with the high in the low to mid 50s. South wind 10 to 20 mph. A 70 percent chance of rain tonight with a low in the upper 40s. Tomorrow, the high will be in the lower 50s with a 60 percent chance of rain. -AP 


The Observer-
The Ol>M:rver (USPS W9 2·4000) is publish~d Monday through Friday and on horne football Saturdays, except during t:xam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Uni·tersiry of Notre Dame and Saint Mary'~ Colleg<'. Subscriptions may be purchased for HOper year ( S20 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
lllte Observer is a member of The Asscclated Press. All reproduction right; are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ............................. Paul Bruce Design Assistant ........... Mark Mclaughlin layout Staff. ............................ Scott Bearby Typesetters ..............Jennifer Bigott, Tracy News Editor......................... Keith Harrison Copy ~·ditor ........................ Mary Heilmann Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor ......John MenneII Viewpoint layout .............. Caroline Belin FeatrJres Copy Editor.. Margaret McCabe Features layout .................... Chris Bowler ND Day Editor........................ Alice Groner Ad Design .. Susan O'Hara, Kathy Krenzer Photographer ............................ Phil Deeter 
.....---..,.---~-----------r:.o-----------~-..------..,.--..,..-.....,,_---~,------""'·-* *'--............~.:w: ........;:us ::;_~--------­
Thursday, February 21, 1985 -page 2 

Student Government effective despite current campus opinion 
After covering the student senate during the entire Rob Bertino administration, I have come to the follow­ing conclusion: Notre Dame student government is ca­pable of making an impact on student life at Notre Dame. However, this impact is directly related to the caliber an,d dedication ofthose serving as student repre­sentatives, as well as their ability to overcome adminis­trative inertia. 
First, look at the current limitations with which every student body president must deal. Aside from the distri­bution offunds, any resolution which the senate passes must pass the Campus Life Council. Unfortunately, the council is composed not only of students, but also of faculty, rectors and administrators. While these people are not bad in and of themselves, they tend to be ex­tremely conservative, voting down any legislation which, in their opinion, might loosen their grip on stu­dent life at Notre Dame. 
While this has happened a number of times, one ex­ample vividly proves the point. Lil' Sibs Weekend, which the senate passed by 
an overwhelming majority, 5i9natun!? s..re! heard. Admittedly, atten­was vetoed by the CLC. Be­dance at Ombudsman's cause the last Lil' Sibs Gripe Nights continues to Weekend had a number of improve, but the senate is problems, the rectors had the body that has the power considerable reservations to divvy out the $250,000. and were understandably Even with the obstacles of against it. the administration and lack 
However, the committee ofstudent input, the current which presented the pro­administration itself has posal had done their been successful. Bertino and homework. They had a full Vice President Cathy David schedule of events planned point to their campaign to keep th<" kids from run­promises, virtually all of nin{! amuck. which have been fulfilled. 
This and the alcohol Also, their presentation directives madt: the possibil­before the board of trustees 
ity of 13-year-olds getting drunk slim. A professor from the law school drew up a legal waiver which would have protected the Univer­sity from any damages or accidents associated with each visitor. All in all, every contigency had been care­fully thought out, except for one: the council could veto the plan. And so it did. 
Interestingly enough, if any proposal does make it through the CLC, it has yet another bureaucratic swamp to wade through. Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs, has the power to automatically veto anything which the CLC passes. This setup is problematic not because of the man who has the final say (there have been times when Tyson has been quite helpful), but because the system gives him absolutely no accountability. There is no appeals board and no su­perior to whom he must justify his position. 
Yet in spite of these limitations, student government can get things done. Although people are quick to point to the failures of student government, such as the 
Ask one of the 3million Americans 
whdve 
survived cancer, if the money spent on research is worth it. 
Weare wtnrung. 
IAMERICAN WCANCER 'SOCIETY~ 


LOGAN CENTER 
NO I SMC Council for the Retarded needs new volunteers this week for two major events: 
SQUARE DANCE 
Friday, 2/22, 7:30-10 pm 




CARNIVAL REC 
Saturday~ 2/23~ 9-11:30am 
-Volunteers needed to man booths and to help the kids play games 
For more information call: Tomx2508 Kathyx3604 Gusx1196 
at St. Mary's call: Cathy orAnne 284-5030 

Mike Millen 
Senior Staff Reporter 
recent election brouhaha, seldlJm can a student name anything positive which the senate has done. How quickly these critical people forget the Stepan ice rink, the lighted basketball courts, the paved parking lots, the student store, this year's highly successful freshmen ori­entation, the microwaves in the dining halls, and the Adopt-A-Transfer program. 
Moreover, where are these students at the student senate meetings? Bertino has designated a time for non­senate members to address any topic they wish, yet the tongues which criticize so well seldom bother to show up and make their views 
was a phenomenal success, especially with the new emphasis on equalizing wo­men's admissions. 
Not all has gone so well, thougll. Notre Dame stu­dents did not appear too convincing with their "original" response to the alcohol policy. Moreover, some question Bertino's judgment in calling the emer­gl·nc.:y Sludent senate meeting whit h reinMated the Browne/Cahill ticket. 
But its Slll.:t:1>~c.:~ and f<Hlure~ aside. ,"<otre Dame stu­dent gon·rnment i1> more than a ··resume filler." The people in it, when sincere, have proven to be a great asset to the student body. President-elect Bill Healy stresses student involvement in government. Given this open invitation, there will be ample opportunity for anyone with an idea to do something about it. And that's the purpose ofstudent government. 
The Observer Thursday, February 21, 1985-page 3 
ND students capture College Bowl 
By PATII TRIPATHI chance for the team to raise its had different strengths which News Staff score. The College Bowl Company helped him or her to answer wide supplies the questions. ranging questions. "Our best person 
The Notre Dame College Bowl "Wide ranging and competitive in literature and music is an account­team just returned victoriously from type of persons are needed because ing major," commented Zepf, refer­a tournament at Purdue University, questions come from all academic ring to Staresinic. where it defeated teams from 14 fields," Lombardo said. "It's a pretty good school so you other midwestern Universities. "I like winning," said Zepf, the will have people who are intelligent. 
The team, composed of Tom captain ofthe team. Roche, who is to People are well-read. We are blessed Mowle, Cora Peng,Jim Roche, Steve be valedictorian ofthe Class of 1985, with influx ofpeople who happen to Staresinic, and Steve Zepf, contin­added, "It's a chance to see how be good," said Zepf. ued Notre Dame's winning tradition much random knowledge I have Staresinic commented that the in College Bowl competition, accor­picked up." victory shows that intelligent stu­ding to Dr. Peter Lombardo, assis­"It's fun to play. Everyone in­dents attend Notre Dame. "That's tant director of the Center for volved in the tournament was very why I'm most proud that we won." Continuing Education and nice," commented freshman Peng. All the players agreed that College moderator of the team since 1979. Mowle concurred, saying "It's a Bowl had nothing to do with the 
"We have won the national cham­challenge to see how quickly I can trivia craze that is sweeping the na­pionship three times since 1976 and recall things." tion. "College Bowl is older and several times we have been second While some members of the team more speed oriented. Questions or third in the regionals," Lombardo prepared for the competition others tend not to be trivial. They are more noted. did not. Staresinic felt that the Col­often based on subject material 
College Bowl used to be held on lege Bowl is like the SAT test be­learned in class," said Roche. radio programs in the 50's. After cause he can see how much For the first time after several losing its appeal it was taken off the knowledge he has picked up years there will not be a national air in 1970, but regained its through the years. "Whenever I competition this year. "I'm ex­popularity in 1978. don't have anything to do I read. It tremely disappointed. I was very 
Students at Notre Dame form ended up that I remembered what I confident we were going to win. It their own teams and compete read. That's what College Bowl is -would have been great," said Peng. 
amongst  each other in the intra­ remembering."  "It would promote Notre  Dame's  
mural  tournaments.  During  the  Players with diverse knowledge  image to host a national tournament  
competition  the  student  who  and strengths in different fields help  especially since  we  have  a  good  
answers  the  toss-up  questions  the  team  to  be  victorious  in  the  chance  of  winning,'-'  expressed  
receives points as well as  another  regional competition. Each student  M~e.  
Tim Thibodeau  Ill  Thatcher  
continuedfrom page 1  
at the Grad. Club Sat. B-1 am.  divided over how to trim the budget deficit -expected to reach a record  
$222.2  billion  this  year  -Mrs.  
"­\0  One r·1an and h1 s Gu1 tar  Thatcher said: "we support so strongly your efforts to reduce your budget deficit. No other country in the world can be immune from its  
I ocat ed  In  the  back  of  Wi l3on Commons  effects, such is the influence of the  
American economy on us all."  
Mrs.  Thatcher's  Conservative  



The Student Activities 
Board is looking for.. 



•I I 
REGINA DANCE STUDIO 
I

................... 

MID -EASTERN 

1985-86 Committee Chairmen 
Ideas & Issues Cultural Arts Campus Entertainment Services Publicity Calendar Special Events Musical Entertainment Movies 
Applications available at the Student Activities Office Due February 25, 1985 

GET EXPERIENCE !! 
Farm credit prompts a day-long filibuster 
The Associated Press for more Farmers Home Adminis­
tration personnel to process loan 

WASHINGTON -Farm-state paperwork. senators said late yesterday they Chairman Rep. Jamie Whitten, were near agreement on a D-Miss., called the measure "a liberalized credit aid package for holding action" needed to keep financially distressed farmers, an farmers from sliding into bank­issue which had prompted a day­ruptcy. The full committee was long ffiibuster. scheduled to consider the bill 
Senate Democrats who in­today and the House Agriculture stigated the parliamentary Committee was to take up even delaying action said they had stronger legislation as Democrats made progress in getting the wielded their newly found politi­Reagan administration to prom­cal weapon. ise administrative action to free Even while coming closer to up more loan guarantee money agreement on credit relief, Dole, for farmers facing trouble obtain­Agriculture SecretaryJohn Block ing loans for spring planting. and other Republicans pointed a 
"I think we're finding out our finger at farm bankers, saying differences aren't really that they had drummed up political great,'' said Senate Majority pressure to offer more credit 
Leader Robert Dole, R-Kan., who relief because they did not want earlier in the day had denounced to accept losses on risky farm the filibuster as "blackmail." An­loans. other meeting was scheduled for While Block, Dole and others 
today. said it now was up to banks and 
At the same time, a House ap­state governments to come up propriations subcommittee with any additional credit help, began pushing on a fast track a the majority leader said a 
bill making available an addi­"package" was in the works that tional $1 billion in farm loan might offer some loosening of guarantees and providing money federal credit strings. 
Party says the C.S. deficit is draining creating pressure for trade barriers capital from around the world, push· to a free market. ing up interest rates and weakening "I am certain that your administra­currencies abroad. tion is right to resist such pressures,'' 
Endorsing Reagan's call for a new she said. "To give in to them would round of international trade talks, betray the millions in the develop­Mrs. Thatcher said "protectionism is ing world, to say nothing of the a danger to all our tradipg partner­strains on your other trading ships." partners." 
She said the current strength of Later, after Mrs. Thatcher and the dollar -which has driven down Reagan had finished their private the value of the pound and made meeting in the Oval Office, they foreign goods less expensive in the strolled across the sun-drenched United States -is causing difficulty Rose Garden to the president's for some American industries and private residence for lunch.
,.•......•......... 
= SPRING DANCE CONCERT 
• Open Auditions 



---~------~--­
The Observer 
Irish court takes 'secret IRA fund' 
The AssocJated Press of Prime :\1inister Garret fitzGerald spokesman, "There's no other 
was empowered to order any hank money involved that we're aware 
DUBLIN. Ireland -The Irish High to hand over money suspected of of." 
Court took possession today of what being controlled by the IRA or any The mainly Roman Catholic IRA is 
the government claims is a secret other outlawed. subversive organi­fighting to drive the British from 
Irish Republican Army operations zation. predominantly Protestant Northern 
fund worth 5!.64 million extorted Under the new Legislation, seized Ireland. It wants to unite the British­
by kidnap and murder threats. money will remain under High ruled province with the overwhelm­
Court control for six months, during ingly Catholic south after 
The Bank of Ireland, the country's which time the account holders can overthrowing the Dublin political 
largest hank, turned the money over claim it ifthey can prove it is for law­establishment. 
to the High Court in compliance ful use. If they cannot, the money 
with an official order, said a govern­goes to the state. Martin Galvin, director ofthe U.S.­
ment spokesman in Dublin, who Press reports in Dublin estimated based Irish Northern Aid 
spoke on condition he not be the sum in the IRA account at be­Committee, Noraid, which supports 
named. tween l and l 0 million Irish pounds, the IRA, denied in an Irish Radio in­
Under an emergency law rushed the equivalent of $940,000 and $9.4 terview from New York that any 
through the: Irish Parliament on million. money in the account came from his 
Tuesday, the coalition government But, according to the government organization. 

'Cabinet' letter receives response 
The Associated Press Reagan's White House "cabinet proj­To Frederick's surprise, he 
ect." received a reply two weeks later on 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -Cabinet "I understand you are in the White House stationary with salesman Dan Frederick says he process of a major cabinet remodel­Reagan's signature across the bot­never expected a response from his ing project," Frederick wrote, refer­tom. letter to Prt:sident Reagan offering ring to recent White House cabinet "Thank you for brightening a "expertise and vast experience in reshuffling. drab, rainy day in Washington," the 
cabinet remodeling." "Being a young and aggressive Letter began. 
But Reagan wrote Frederick company, we offer our expertise and "I'm sorry I have just completed thanking him for "brightening a vast experience in cabinet remodel­the cabinet redo here," the letter drab, rainy day in Washington." ing, whenever and wherever possi­read. "Otherwise I would have 
Frederick is a salesman for a Mid­ble." availed myself to your services. dlebury cabinet remodeling firm The letter concluded: "I feel we ''I'm trying to think ofsome way I 
with offices in Fort Wayne and could successfully work together as could apply an appropriate title to Elkhan. He wrote the president Jan. our attitudes seem to run parallel; Congress that would make that body 21 offering expert advice on i.e., reface--don't replace." a fit object for your remodeling. 

Pangborn works for new computer 
By GERARD GOLDNER had volunteered to workJunior Par­Weekend, said "The students did it News Staff ents' Weekend, only approximately 
because they wanted to be a part ofa SO were able to uphold their com­project which would help the dorm Nearly 50 Pangborn residents mitment for various reasons. These as a whole." The idea ofintiating a want anotht:r Apple computer so 50 students donated all of the drive to raise money for a hall com­much that they are donating the money which they received from puter arose from the successful at­money they earned during Junior workingJunior Parents' Weekend to tempt of Borden and 25 other Parents' Weekend toward its pur­the drive. students to raise money for a hall chase. Although the final amount of piano Last year. Lipo hopes these The fund-raising drive, under the money will not be determined until fund-raising efforts for hall additions direction of Assistant Rector Father Friday, Pangborn hopes to purchase will become a tradition in Pangborn Wilfred Borden, Hall President Tom another Apple Computer (in addi­in which all residents will feel a part. Ryan, and resident Frank Lipo, tion to the"one which it already has) 
resulted from a decision to buy a and possibly even a terminal to the new computer since, according to Prime Computer of the College Of Lipo, "the one the dorm has is used Engineering. extensively." Lipo, who was also one of the 
Q: WHICH OF THE FOLLOWING IS GUARANTEED TO CHANGE YOUR WAY OF THINKING? 
1. Studying at King's College in London 
2.Studying at Royal Holloway College in London 
3. Studying at The British Studies Centre in Canterbury 
A: ANY OF THE ABOVE 

The Institute for American Universities now offers 3 study­abroad options in Great Britain: King's College of the University of London, The Institute's British Studies Centre in Canterbury, and Royal Holloway College (also of the University of London). Each combines a first-rate academic programme with the opportunity to live and travel in Europe. 
For details concerning the Institute's programmes, write to us at 72 Castle Street, Canterbury CT12QD, England, or see your campus study-abroad advisor. 

FF========= coupon ==========A 
In Time For Your Formals 
Haircut Only--$8 or 2 for $15 if you bring a frit:nd. g (Biowdry and iron touch-up --$3 add1t1onal) 0 (') Q -§
:::3 
0 
0 
u 
Walk-ins Welcome Offer ends 3-2·85 
j
l 

Corner of Ironwood and Edison 
234-676", ~ 

~===========COUpOn===============~ 
Thursday, February 21, 1985-page 4 

Thr ObM·n.·er/Ptnll>t:elrl

She's got the beat 
jazz mu.-;ician Ten-i Lyne Can-ington performed last night at the Center fi11· Conti11uin~ Education auditorium. Can-ington ap­peared with members of the N.D. jazz Ensemble in the concert, which was sponsored by the Black Cultural Arts Festival. 
,~--Ra--m.~mMEamMm.~-.--~K-­
The Picture Man  
PRESENTS  
Ju"tott cpatte"tg CWee{Qe"d  
- "Proofs on Display"  
Where: LaFortune Student Center  
I''.'  When: Thurs. & fri, Feb. 21, 22  
Mon., Tues. & Wed. Feb. 25, 26, & 27  
Time: 11 am ­4 pm each day  -:~  



View~_o_i_n_t_________ ge_s
Th_ur-sda.._y._Fe-bru_ary......_21_,1_9s_s_..pa... 



Role of papal authority shows Christ's teachings 
Many people these days question the Church hierarchy's teachings on doctrinal and moral issues such as papal infallibility and birth control. I would like to offer a view of the hierarchy's teaching regarding these is­sues. 
First ofall, on the issue ofpapal infallibility, the Church has taught from the beginning that the doctrine of papal infallibility originates in the Gospel, specifically in these words of Christ addressed to Peter: "And whatever you 
Mark Gibson 
guest column 
shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven" (Matthew 16:19-20). The Church interprets this passage to mean that when the Pope, as Peter's successor, publicly and solemnly proclaims that a certain truth has been revealed by Christ, either personally or through His apostles, he cannot be in error. 
Second, the Church condemns artificial contraception while permitting natural family planning for good reason. Pope Paul VI ex­plains the Church's teaching on birth control in "Humanae Vitae": "God wisely disposed natural laws and rhythms offecundity which, of themselves, cause a separation in the succession ofbirths. Nonetheless the Church, calling men back to the observance of the norms of the natural law, as interpreted by its constant doctrine, teaches that each and every marriage act must remain open to the transmission of life." Pope Paul VI points out in another section of"Humanae Vitae" the es­sential difference between "recourse to the infecund periods" (natural family planning) and "the use of means directly contrary to fecundation, even if such use is inspired by reasons which may appear honest and serious" (artificial birth control): "In reality, there are essential differences between the two cases; in the former, the married couple make legitimate use ofa natural disposition; in the latter, they impede the development of natural processes." 
Third, to those who wonder why women are excluded from the priesthood, the Holy Father offered a cogent explanation to the Na­tional Shrine of the Immaculate Conception on October 7, 1979: "(Mary is) the woman who is honored as Queen ofApostles, without herself being inserted into the hierarchial constitution of the Church, and yet this wo­man made all hierarchy possible because she gave to the world the Shepherd and Bishop of our souls. This woman, this Mary of the Gospels, who is not mentioned as being at the Last Supper, comes back again at the foot of the cross, in order to consummate her contri­bution to salvation history. By her courageous act she prefigures and anticipates the courage ofall women throughout the ages who concur in bringing forth Christ in every generation." 
If Christ had wanted to ordain women to the priesthood, surely he would have or­dained his most perfect creature, who cooperated so closely in the redemption of man that she is called the "Co-Redemptrix" of the whole human race. 
Finally, the Holy Father does not eschew in­tellectual inquiry into Church doctrine; rather, he eschews the questioning of the validity of Church doctrine because the Holy Spirit safeguards the Church from false doctrine. The Holy Father strongly en­courages the studying ofChurch doctrine and the reasoning behind each teaching, as he showed in his address to a group of students on March 25, 1979, in Rome: "If you do not become personally aware and do not have an adequate understanding of what must be believed and of the reasons for this faith, at a certain moment everything may inevitably collapse and be swept away, in spite of the good will ofparents and educators." 
The role of papal authority in the lives of Catholics is to point out unmistakably the true teachings ofChrist. Since this authority comes from Christ, no one has the right to question it. As Catholics, however, we do have the duty to study·the doctrines of our faith in order to reach a better understanding ofthem. 
Mark Gibson is a sophomore economics and CAPP major atNotre Dame. 

Hope for future seen in Notre Dame report card 
Every ten years most universities ·go through an accreditation process and, recently, it was Notre Dame's turn. Last year, from Feb. 19 through Feb. 22, an evaluation team, composed offaculty and administrators from other schools in the midwest, visited the campus and looked at all facets of the Univer­sity. The team interviewed administrators, faculty and students. The final result, a type of report card, produced from this process by 
Mark Boennighausen gravity is a myth 
the North American Association of Colleges 
• and Schools is interesting due to its unique objective perspective. 
Overall, the report is very complimentary. It found much that is good at Notre Dame and reports: "Thus, there is a certain excitement at Notre Dame at this time. It is the excitement of being an institution which not only makes promises about excellence but seems capable of mastering the will and 'the resources -par­ticularly financial resources -to enable the realization of these promises." Furthermore, students can be assured that their SIO,OOO a year is being well spent, as the report praises the "competent and conservative financial management" present at Notre Dame. 
Despite the generally positive tone, the report did highlight some problems present at the University. For example, one problem mentioned was the greater emphasis that Notre Dame has placed on the need for re­search. The relatively new priority creates a great deal of pressure for untenured junior faculty and often effects the time a faculty member can devote to teaching and, more specifically, to students. 
Indeed, a common statement I have heard from many junior faculty members is that, at Notre Dame, it is either "publish or perish." Additionally, some senior faculty members have expressed a concern that Notre Dame 
Viewpoint Policy 
WEW!; ITW,: OS;.Go~MENf ~LAUNQ\ING 1-IU~ J<EIIo,AJNS" INTO Sl't>.CE.. 
I 

1 
~ 

1 
might lose its reputation as a "teaching univer­ 
sity" in its effort to increase its quantity of re­ 
search. Whether, in fact, teaching will take a  
backseat to research is open to speculation.  
Of greater specific interest to students is  
the report's observations on student life. The  
undefineable "Notre Dame experience" was  
the comment the ,evaluation team heard most  
when they interviewed student leaders. They  
were further impressed by the sense of com­ 
munity apparent on campus. In the report, the  
use of alcoholic beverages received an entire  
section, and the review committee com­ 
mented on the fact that the then existingalco­ 
hol committee seemed to be handling the  
issues with a great deal of sensitivity. It went  
on to conclude that the solutions to be  
handed down by the committee would win  
"reasonably wide acceptance." And, with  
hindsight, it seems the evaluation team was  
not far offthe mark.  , 
The last problem found by the team that deserves mention concerns how the Univer­ ,.,  
sity is governed. The evaluation team felt that  ..,  
the faculty was almost entirely left out of the  ,  
decision-making process with regard to the hiring and retaining of academic personnel.  ,,  
Moreover, it felt the entire mechanism of  
governing was overly centralized around the  
president of the University. Anyone who has  
had any personal dealings with the administra­ 
tion can well understand this observation.  
The report added that the current process  
many only be seen as legitimate due to the  
"...immense respect that exists for the presi­ 
dent." In the end, the current way of running  
the University may cease to function  
smoothly once Hesburgh leaves. That is, ifhe  
ever leaves.  
The report card for Notre Dame, thus, is full  
of optimism for the future but, as mentioned,  
some marks point to problem areas. The next  1  
report, in ten years, will be the one that determines if Notre Dame has fulfilled the po­tential indicated by this one.  ,' ,,  
Mark Boennighausen is a senior govern­ment major and a regular Viewpoint  1,.,  
columnist.  1  
~  
Viewpoint WIIIID to IHtlr}'rolfryot~./fyotl  1, l  
INiw "" opllllort, brllliJIII ,_,., or "-oroou ~~ c:orterlfl.. __,... tiJip.ri"' Ill 1beOit»erterJ-1...W II I«·  ~,  
•toP.O.Bo:¥Q.  
,,  

..~The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edttor·m·Chtef. Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . Dave Ta1clet Managtng Edt tor . . Mark Worscheh Controller . .. Dave Stephen itch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Edttor . Sarah Ham1lton Advertising Manager . . Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor . Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . ... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news IS reported as Satnt Mary's Edttor Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager ... Mark B. Johnson accurately and as ObJectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Edt tor. Michael Sull1van Production Manager. . .. Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the lns1de Column Vtewpomt Editor . .... Dave Grote Project Manager . . Amy Stephan present the views ot the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members ot the Features Edttor. Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varymg opinions on campus. through letters. Photo Edttor Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 
"ieVVP._O_i_n_t___________________________________________T_h_ur_s_da_y_,_Fe_b_ru_a_ry__2_I,_I_9_B_s_-_-_pa~g_e__6 

Small island can be big on the international scale 

Kroeger's article shows exaggeration of RAs 
DearEditor: 
After reading "Losing One's Resident Assis­tant" by Dave Kroeger, I couldn't help think­ing -methinks thou doth protest too loudly. And I wonder if, when Kroeger kills a fly, he uses a sledge hammer. It is my opinion the ar­ticle was somewhat ofan overkill. Reading last year's issues of lbe Observer, I knew the priests and resident assistants would end up being the scapegoats this year. Well, nobody said life was easy or fair. 
I think it is good to have disagreements and argue for the truth. But when our egos get in the way and we have to be right or wrong, then no one is served. And it leaves me to wonder -Doe5> God cry too, when he reads something like this? 
Mrs. Erwin Lee Morris, Ill. 
Saint Mary's leaders explain their positions 
DearEditor: 
We would like to thank The Observer for its endorsement. The "Meet the Candidates Night" was a positive step that Saint Mary's College has been encouraging tor several years. The Observer staff came over to Saint
r 
Mary's College for the first time to endorse a
r 
ticket, and it provided a forum for other stu­dents to gather and express their opinions.
~ 
The open forum was well attended and labeled a success. 
We, as the new student body officers, do have a few concerns which we would like to express. We feel that the interpretation ofour answers and the questions which were asked could be improved in the future. 
First of all, in regard to our "almost too friendly relationship" with the administration, we feel very fortunate to be given the oppor­tunity to express our opinions openly to our administration and have them listen seriously to our thoughts and suggestions. It is a very open and respectful relationship, and we are proud to be Included as we are in decisions and issues which affect our lives. 
Second, Saint Mary's College student gov­ernment was labeled as non-aggressive on stu­dent issues, and it was stated that we usually wait for issues to arise before we react. This past year exemplifies how we are moving in a positive direction with our "aggressiveness." We enacted a Loft Policy, a Parletals Proposal and a computerized Lottery Room Selection System. Student government added a Public Relations Committee, moved room selections back one month and worked closely with Campus Ministry to meet students' needs. 
We feel very confident that, in the year to come, we will be observant of problems and issues and proactive in addressing them. We do not advocate searching for problems or creating issues just to have problems. Stu­dents will be made aware that they can and are always welcome to approach us with their concerns. 
·Inird, the questions posed to our ticket focused mainly on this past year's accomplish­ments and issues. Due to this fact, we did not 
It seems rather ironic that such a small, beautiful island like Grenada would have any effect upon international affairs. Nevertheless, the importance of strategically located Grenada came to the forefront when the United States invaded the Caribbean island in an attempt to stop Russian and Cuban aggres­sion. More wa..~ on the line than just the lives of 
Pat Flood 
Irish brawl 
American medical students and American business interests -in fact, this memorable military maneuver by the United States may prove to be the crucial step in contemporary politics in preventing the "domino theory" of Communist takeover from occurring all over Central America and the world. 
One can just imagine what effect a Marxist-run, Soviet-funded, bellicose country would have upon American trade and security. Nearly half of American trade, including pe­troleum, passes through the Panama Canal and Caribbean Sea. With Soviet technology, Grenadian Marxists could easily sabotage all forms of American trade, severely crippling our industries and costing American lives and fortunes in the process. With money and zealots, Grenadian Marxists could easily have become another link in the Soviet Union's chain ofinfluence. 
From a moral standpoint, then, the United States could not have allowed a Communist takeover in Grenada and subjected its neigh­bors to a military takeover by a totalitarian minority. As a world leader and protector of civil rights and social justice, the United States was certainly justified in supporting the secur­ity of the Caribbean region. As President Reagan noted in his proposed Central Ameri­can policy, to which we should all accord, "security assistance is a shield for democratization, economic development and diplomacy." 
Thus, the U.S. military in Grenada should not be viewed as evil but rather necessary; indeed, it should be viewed as mandatory if the Central American people are to exercise any of their fundamental rights -life, liberty and the pursuit ofhappiness. 
Moreover, the invasion of Grenada by the United States should not be advocated only by the free citizens of Central America and the United States. If the Communist takeover in Grenada would have succeeded, European trade and security would also have been cur­tailed. In the event ofa European crisis today, at least half of the American supplies for NATO would go past Cuba which, aided by Grenadian Marxists, could prevent American supplies from reaching Europe. Without the aid of the United States, then, how could NATO effectively stop the Soviet Union from further aggression in Europe? 
The national security of all the countries in 
the world is certainly at stake in the Caribbean region. If the United States cannot defend it­self there, it cannot expect to be of impor­tance in the international crusade for civil rights. France and Great Britain were once proud and mighty empires, but without U.S. assistance these countries would have great difficulty in restraining bellicose nations in Europe and Asia. This relationship is recipro­cal -the United States relies on its allies for its own safety as well as the safety of all the Americas. What I am suggesting, then, is a cooperative effort by the United States and its allies, mainly France and Great Britain, to safeguard the natural rights of all human beings wherever they might abide. The cru­cial question thus becomes focused on the types of assistance the United States, France and Great Britain can offer the rest of the world. 
Pat Flood is a junior go11ernment major and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 






P.O. Box Q 
get the chance to focus on the goals for our administration. Such issues as the social life, campus ministry, integration, off-campus and Notre Dame communication were never ad­dressed by The Observer staff during the "question period." 
We are very confident in regard to our ex­perience, enthusiasm and dedication and feel we can lead Saint Mary's College successfully. Therefore, with reservations, we very grate­fully accept your endorsement. Thank you. 
Anne Marie Kollman 
jeanne Heller 
julie Harmon 
Beretz ought to show some respect and class 

DearEditor: 
After reading Charlie Beretz's letter of Feb. 12 addressing an article written by Father Griffin, I was left "rather bewildered" myself. In responding to Beretz's letter, I am faced with a dilemma-should I try to be rational and point out his stupidity in simple, logical lan­guage, or should I resort to the cutting, sarcas­tic and classless method so poorly opted for by Beretz? 

I am not agreeing or disagreeing with the views In Father Griffin's article-views that got Beretz into such a flustered state. It is my pur­pose to condemn the way Beretz so viciously attacked Father Griffin for giving his opinion. Father Griffin's article was well written, his points clearly presented and well argued. It is obvious that Griffin is a very intelligent man who possesses much understanding and in­sight. I attended a mass which he said in Sa­cred Heart Church last weekend, and I was awed by the sermon -by both its content and his delivery of it. How Beretz is able to ques­tion the Griffin's intelligence and Christianity absolutely baffles me. Beretz would not know intelligence or Christianity if it came up and bit him in the ego. I question how Christian Beretz is for attempting to defame a well respected priest for simply giving a different side of a very complicated issue -an issue Beretz evidently has a narrow and uninformed opinion about. 
Instead ofarguing with the content of Grif­fin's column, Beretz chose to attack him per­sonally. This is about the surest way ofturning the reader off one's own point and is an ex­tremely effective way ofdisplaying one's own ignorance. 
Beretz speaks of Griffin's immatute whining. If Beretz studied, read and came down off of his ego trip for the rest of his life, he still would not come close to achieving the level of maturity, tact and intelligence which Griffin displayed in his article. 

I hope that by putting this in language which Beretz uses and believes is effective, I have convinced him of how his own "immature whining" turns off everyone reading it. I hope that, in the future, he will 
show  a  little  class  and  some  amount  of  
respect.  
Eugene F. Delaune Ill  
Morrissey Hall  

Election controversy is no cause for any violence 
DearEditor: 
The recent outcry against Student Govern­ment has prompted me to attempt to momen­tarily direct students' anger, frustration, and criticisms away from a dedicated group of in­dividuals who work hard on behalf of the stu­dent body, to an isolated incident performed by a few members of our supposedly es­teemed student body. 
On Monday night, the Senate Ad Hoc Elec­tions Committee gave out the materials and supplies for Tuesday's election to the individ­ual dorm Judicial Board Chairmen. Because some of the ballot boxes were still at Saint Mary's from the Observer Readership Survey, we promised a number of dorms that we would deliver the boxes to them once they were returned to us later that ev<:ning. When we received them, we did just that. Tim McDowell, the Vice-Chairperson of the Com­mittee was carrying boxes to Dillon and Howard when he became aware of three stu­dents following him, taunting him about Stu­dent Government and the elections because of his obvious involvement. After leaving Howard on his way back to LaFortune, Tim again became aware of these students whose cries became louder and more abusive as they came closer. 
Suddenly, they tackled him from behind and wrestled him down to the ground where they brutally attacked him 1-" l..mg him repeatedly In thl' rib~ and vu hally abusing him. 
After they had ,_,J thcar lua. rim rl·turm:d home where he sp"~'-wilh ..;, · IILIL} o~nd also received medical attention. Although he was very shaken up, he wanted to go on with the elections as scheduled, before things "got out ofhand." 
Tim is all right, which is my main concern. But now that we know that, I don't think this should pass unnoticed. The fact that two people who obviously do not know or care anything about Student Government, can, un­der the cover ofdarkness and anonymity, have the audacity and stupidity to perform such an apalling act is what students should get upset about, not a decision made by a group ofindi­viduals doing what they felt was right. 
I have been listening to a lot of different opinions lately regarding Student Govern­ment and the recent Student Senate decision. Very suddenly, people have not only taken an interest in Student Government (which is good), but seem to have developed both an expertise and a vindictiveness regarding it, as proven by this disgusting display ofbehavior. 
Emotions are running high and tempers are running short. I know students are upset, but as a member of Student Government, how should I feel when people I have been elected to represent react in such a ridiculous way? I realize it is only a few students, but I would hope that it causes other students to think and reflect a moment before they act or say anyth­ing regarding the issue. 
Cathy David, Chairperson AdHoc Elections Committee 







Accent 
What was it like when • • • 
Dad went to school at Notre Dante ? 
Shelli Canfield 
features staff writer 


... nv student whose father 

~ :raduated from Notre Dame uJuld recite from memory count­less stories about when Dad studied under the Dome. Many of the tales have grown tall with the years. The third floor window he climbed up to by shimmying up the spouting, just may have been a first floor window. but the fact he got in his dorm after lights out was still in itself a major accomplishment. So what was the University really like 30 years ago? No endless party then, either, for Notre Dame students. We are talking about men who, after a Saturday night out, tried their darndest not to stumble off the bus, walking a straight line to avoid the watchful eye of the priest awaiting their arrival at the bus stop. Who came to dinner dressed in coat and tie. Who were in their rooms precisely at I 0 p.m. for room check. ·Who, if a lady happened to be visiting, made scrupulously sure the door was kept open at least six inches. Notre Dame in the '50s, you see, was quite another story. Ofcourse, only men went to Notre Dame then. FatherJohn Cavanaugh was presi­
dent and Father Theodore Hes­burgh was vice-president (until 1953). And rules were the rule. 

Notre Dame's strict regulations were designed mainly to encourage studies. They were a major fact of life, because they governed every aspect ofit. Today's students take for granted their privilege to procrastinate, studying until the wee hours. Thirty years ago, the undergrad at Notre Dame did not have this option. Besides the 10 o'clock room checks (unless stu­dents were signed out), lights-out at 
11 every night was strictly en­
forced. 

Ifyou didn't get your studying done by then, well, tough. Seniors, however, had the priviledge of keeping the lamp burning until midnight. The electricity was simply cut off, except for in the bathrooms, where it was sometimes necessary to migrate in order to cram for that exam or finish that card game! It's no wonder so many pink slips ( dificiency notices) were issued at mid-semester. 
Freshmen were additionally burdened when it came to rules. Besides waking up before 7:30 
please go to page 8 



Morn went to school at Saint Mary's? 
Tess Guarino 
features staffwriter 
"Tlte The experience ofliving at Saint Mary's is in itselfone of the: most unforgettable and con­structive factors in the student's college years. The Saint Mary's girl is a member ofan unusually large cosmopolitan group, not too large for general acquaintance, large enough to offer opportunity for the finest and most stimulating friendships ofher life. In regard to her social program ... campus diversions are practically un­limited."-The Bulletin, 1955-56 The "campus diversions" enjoyed by a Saint Mary's student in the '50s may seem archaic, boring or amusing today. But in retrospect, students then probably complained a lot less about having something to do on the weckends than students in 1985. Social life definitely has un­dergone some changes since then. But as History Professor Dr. Charles Poinsatte put it, "students were a fun-loving. and certainly not dour group." Poinsatte is one ofa few Saint Mary's professors who have been here since the '50s, andre­members the College then. Classes at that time were all held in LeMans Hall, it being the only classroom building on campus until the Sci­
ence Hall was built in 1955, and Moreau and O'Laughlin Auditorium in 1956. 
Students attended class dressed 
in their required uniforms, consist­
ing ofa charcoal wool suit, and dark 
shoes in the winter, and pastel 

"golfers" or one piece dresses in the 
spring and fall. Those today who 

cringe at putting nylons for a twice 
a semester SYR, should know hose 
was always required then. 

Uniforms were discarded at din­ner time, when everyone was ex­pected to "dresss for dinner." Dinner was an event in itselfin those days. The current main lobby of LeMans Hall served as the cafeteria, with kitchens in what is now the housing and career coun­seling offices. Students had assigned places at the table, which rotated each month. Seniors enjoyed the privilege ofeating with Sister Madeleva, president ofSaint Mary's during the '50s, who was known to bring an occasional speaker to the dinner table. Her presence alone was enough, however, since she was quite a sought-after lecturer herself. 
Wherever you sat, you were 
please go to page 9 






Accent 
Dad catching 40 winks -in class? Enjoying ice cream out on the town in South Bend. 
So01e things change, so01e don't 
continuedfrompage 7 growing stubby be·ards. As for 30 minute~. after which more se­
meals, well, some things never vere action was taken. (;t:tting thrt·e days a week (a ruk designed change. There were complaints around lights-out, ofcourst·, meant to encouragt· daily :\ta.'s atten­about lack of variety and quality of the exodus into the men·, room to dance), there was also required the food. The remedy was either to play poker, or some handy individ­class on Saturday morning. Yes, go to The Huddle for a hamburger ual would wire the Exit sign to light Saturday. The classes ran in a Tues­or take a bus downtown for pizza. his room as black cloths were day/Thursday/Saturday sequence. The penalties for breaking a rule draped over the windows. In addition, freshmen were re­were quite severe. Being caught Just as rules prevailed in the
r 
quired to take at least one H::\0 a.m. with alcohol, for e"amplc, meritted 1950s, so did the Notre Dame idea
r 
r class. automatic suspension for up to a offun. Dating? There were occas­r Ofcourst·, cla.~s attendance was semester, and the second offense sional mixers at Saint Mary's, in­mandatory. Like many of the cla.~ses brought the possil:>ility ofexpul­cluding the annual Saint Mary's ' now, the students were allowed sion. If you were caught drunk, you Winter Carnival with its ice-skating 

1'),,· J"'\,ml.' .,9.,-i-l:·u:\.1.wrlt''I"~O
three cuts for a three-cn:dit course -could he thrown out. Nicholas parties, skits, and dancing to the
~ 
Reverend Theodore M. Heshurgh Sister M. Madetevar with the exception of the fortunate Healy, who graduated in 1960, mellow tunes of Ralph Flanagan and 
few who made tht· Dean's Ust, who recalls his roommate freshman year Tommy Dorsey via one small dorms saw their share of water­19'ilJ~."' r were allowed unlimited cuts. phonograph. But otherwise there fights and firecrackers (Morrissey). Gc>nt: are tht· days\\ ht:n c:vnyr Nowadays almost evt·ryone cuts was relatively little interaction with pink slips (St. Ed's) and "long hair student received, daily, .1 "Rc:ligiou~r courses right before vacation, hut in the College, unless your roommate music" (Cavanaugh). Bulletin"-the aim ofwhich was to
r 
the ''iOs that was simply not had a sister who went there and you The only colleges that existed show the student "how to live a allowed. ''At Notre Dame, a would get together and go for cof­then were those of Arts and Leuers, Catholic life and ... avoid the natu­Did students really cut loose on fee or something. Instead, students Science, Engineering, Commerce (a ral temptations ofa college stu­
guy would have 

weekends, after being subjected to generally tended to put offdating basic liberal arts program courses dent." Gone are the days when ID
f 
the rules of the Catholic West given.you the shirt until they went home and went out concentrating in business). On a cards served as free passes to ath­
r 
r Point? Well, in the ''iOs even cutting with familiar faces. graduate level there was a graduate letic events, as are those of

off his back. " 

loose had its restrictions -strictly Fun, at Notre Dame, was gener­school, the law school, and the "smokers" when guys congregated" r enforced. Manuals on student dis­ally equated with intramural sports, Medieval Institute. Career place­to smoke and shoot the breeze on r cipline and maps ofSouth Bend drinking against the rules, card­ment and specialized programs for the front steps of the dorm. r were issued to all students, with in Cavanaugh, who was caught playing (especially bridge and the job-conscious, such as the ALPA Student of the '80s, like those of r forbidden zones clearly marked. boozing it up in the basement of the hearts), free weekends in Chicago we have now, simply did not exist. the '40s, are very career-oriented. 
Freshmen were allowed only two hall. The rector reported him, and and where ever else your friends Senior year, for all, was the year The students ofthe '50s, however, 
r 
midnights a week . that is, be in by he was suspended after one semes­and roommates might call home. for writing the required thesis. had better things to think about.r midnight -though for seniors, it ter. Fort Lauderdale was popular for According to Robert Beckman. an What's a job in the distant future to
r 
was fairly unlimited (depending on Students also tried to get around Spring Break even then for a school art professor in the '50s and now a freshman who, the very next
r 
tht· hall you lived in). On weekends, the rules by signing roommates in full ofcompliant students who went the head of the Art Department, morning, had.to get up before 7:30
r 
r the curfew was at I a.m.; exceptions at morning checks. Ifyou happened wild when they got offcampus -to "There was a strong natural empha­a.m., stumble into the rector's of­r were made for formals until 2 or so. to be a little late for midnight cur­the point where they were known sis on undergraduate teaching, and fice, and sign his initials on a sheet r Ofcourse, no drinking was allowed few, your rommate could also sign as the "most unruly" ofall students. a more personal interaction be­of paper for the routine morning r on campus, and drinking offcampus you in as you valiantly tried to Notre Dame's answer to frater­tween professors and their stu­checks held three days a week? 
r 
was only permitted if you were 21. crawl in through the window. Ifyou nities was the dorm: Sorin, Walsh, dents, which is phasing out now as Crew cuts were in, and it wasn't r Until you were 21, you were not were caught, you were "campused" Howard, Dillon, St. Ed's, Alumni, professors are publishing and until the end of the decade that ' permitted to spend a weekend away (grounded) as punishment. You Cavanaugh, Lyons, Morrissey, researching 10 gain tenure. their dates sported shorter hair and r from campus without special were campused one week for every Breen-Phillips, Farley, Zahm and However, the quality ofscholarship shorter dresses. One element oflife r permission and a note from your five minutes you were late, for up to Badin -especially Badin. All the has been greatly enhanced since the at Notre Dame in the '50s remained r parents. Freshmen were limited to unchanged: the Notre Dame spirit. 
F 
one or two away wet:kends a James Crisman, who graduated 
month. from Notre Dame in the late ''iOs 
f 
Care to entertain a young lady in and loved the years he spent there, your room? Not only did the door describes it as a comradery, a have to be opt·n six inches, hut sacrafice. Crisman said, "In the r were there set hours for that. Want marines, a guy will give his life for r to hit the rockin' town ofSouth you. At Notre Dame, a guy would r Bend? Havt: a nice trip on the bus -have given you the shirt off his " cars wert: not allowed on campus back." Sure, it had a military orien· I (no t:xceptions ), unlt:ss you lived ration, hut "you chose to go there. 
off campus. After all, you could have gone to Meal hours were 12 to I for Michigan State or somewhere like dinner and 5 to 6 for supper. that" if you didn't like Notre Dame. 
~ 
Surprisingly, thert: wa.~ no dress Healy said, "there was that spirit
I 
code until 1957, when students offraternity, and the quality ofthe
r 
wt:re required to wear a coat and academic life was fine, hut it was
r 
r tie to the evening mt:als. It was too strict, with unreasonable rules.'' typical ofa Notre Dam<: man to get Comparing the Notre Dame of around this rule · as well as many of today with the Notre Dame ofthe 
the others. a.~ much as possible. '50s, Healy believes he would like it More than one student visited the better today than he did then. "The Salvation Army to purchase a ratty atmosphere seems more relaxed. coat and tie and wear every single The campus seems livelier-there's day for two years straight. After all, more going on." Furthermore. he 
with few women around, who was believes making Notre Dame co-ed there to impress? was a change for the better, because As far as clothing went, anything it has a levelling influence, and wem. Many a student went grubby provides a more natural environ­
f 
and made heroic attempts at ment. "It seems like a better place." 




..---------~---~--------~~---------------­
Thursday, February 21, 1985 ­
.. 
page 8-9 


j 
..... 
i ~ 
Ball at Christmas, which attempted introudce freshmen to the N D 
J
to raise money for needy South freshmen, the junior Christmas Bend families. Dances did not in­dinner, a semiformal in the dining 
• 
clude any outside activity during room, where juniors sang carols the '50s. With no parietals at all, and candles, and the Faculty-Senior 
l ~ 
Notre Dame men never got a Dessert in Stapleton. 
glimpse ofa Saint Mary's dorm Students who have alumnae 
room, and room parties were obvi­parents that aren't too sympathetic 
ously impossible. Hotel parties about the recent alcohol policy 
would have gotten you expelled. furor really can't be blamed. During 
But dances featured different activi­the '50s, alcohol was not allowed 
~ 
ties than the standard SYR of today. on either campus. At Saint Mary's, Parties ofa different so.rt were students signed an agreement upon 
~ 
held in the Clubhouse then. Notre arriving, pledging not to indulge 
4
Dame men came over, sat around during the school year. And ifyou 
A
the fire roasting marshmallows and were unlucky enough to be caught 
j J 
drinking coke. Suits and dresses with alcohol, you were automati­
were required, and the night was cally sent home for two weeks, no 
spent playing charades or ping matter ifyou were from South 
pong. Bend, Los Angeles or New York. 
A 
Then there was the famous Sun­During the week, lectures were 
~ 
day afternoon Tea Dance, held each popular diversions from study. Most 
week in LeMans. "Guys swarmed students attended two lectures a ~ 
over here on Sundays," recalled week, and a concert every two 
•
Cooney. "They had to have ties to weeks. Bridge was another ex­4 get in, and once they were here, tremely popular pastime, said played the piano and sang popular Teresa Marcy, a 1959 graduate, and ' jcampus songs." assistant ot the vice president now. 
i ~ 
Without parietals and the co­"You could only smoke in certain exchange system, how else did places," she said. "The rectangle Saint Mary's women socialize, you downstairs in LeMans basement ask? Well, many romances began would be filled with girls smoking 
-
while ND and SMC students tutored and playing bridge between and taught ceo classes together, classes." 
! 
said Cooney. The two student gov­Marcy is from South Bend, and 
ernments have always worked only lived on campus her sopho­
together and shared many clubs, more year. But she was "involved in 
j
like the ever-popular Square Dan­everything," from SMC orchestra, 
j
cing club. And clubs like Notre singing at Mass, and student coun­
-. j
Dame's Philosophy Club and Saint cil. 
l J
Mary's Thomist Club worked to­"The College has far less rules for 
gether. The Columbine Club was a non-academic life now," she said. 
drama organization that put on play "But that didn't stop me from in­
tournaments each year, like 1954's volvement, I had lots ofgood 
French farces. One organization, friends." 
the St. Martin de Porres Scholarship, "You must think ofa differnet 
featured the slogan "a penny a day lifestyle, not only here but 
for Martin," in the hopes ofprovid­anyplce," sait Cooney. "Ifit's 
ing a one-year scholarship at Saint foreign to the times we ridicule it, Mary's for a southern black student. but everything has to be put into Other social events ofthe year the context ofhow times were 
Several women get in the spirit ofa football weekend 
included the junior Home Party, to then." 

The Observer Thursday, February 21, 1985 -page 10 
'A' Division Playoffs 
Last Night's Results Grace 68, Flanner 49 St. Ed's 36, Dillon 35 (OT) 
Tonight's Game Flanner (No.3 seed) vs. Dillon (No.5) Gym4, 6p.m. 
'B' Division 

Last Night's RE!sults Stanford 58, Dillon 41 Pangborn 54, Grace 47 
Tonight's Gc1me Grace (No.3) vs. Dillon (No.4) Gym4, ?p.m. 



Off-Campus still tops Krause 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
In interhall hockey action Tues­day night, Corrigan division-leader~ Alumni and Pangborn battled to a 3· 3 tic while in Krause division action Monday, Off-Campus maintained its one point lead with a forfeit by Keenan, and Grace kept pace with a 4-I win over Cavanaugh/Howard. 
In the one Krause division game played Tuesday, Dillon kept its playoffhopes alive with a 2-0 victory over Flanner. 
The fate of the Krause division leadership was at stake Tuesday eve­ning when its two top teams squared off against one another. 
Alumni and Pangborn came into the gamt· with Identical records of 5·0. they left tht· ACC still dead­locked with ne~ records of 3-0· I 
:'.mbhorn jumped out of tht· gate quickly two minutes into the game when defenseman Wally Stack drove down the right side and snuck the puck behind Alumni goalie Paul Zarembza to give Pangborn the early 1-0 lead. 
This lead did not last long however, as Alumni came storming back thirty seconds later on a goal by Brian Aquandro to tie the contest at 
1-1. 
Alumni continued to put pressure on the Pangborn skaters, dominating play for most of the first period. Had it not been for the exceptional goal· tending of Pangborn's Dave tong. 
tht· game could t·dsily havt· been dended in the ft1 ~t period. 
Turning 10 the Krau~t· d1vision, O:f-C.unpu~ upped it~ rctord 10 4-0­
• '' 1th " furfcil victory over Keenan (0-'Hl). Meanwhile Grace (3-0-2) remained one point behind Off­Campus by jumping out to a 4-0 lead befort· defeating Cavanaugh/Howard ( 1-3-1) 4-1. 
In one other Krause division game, Dillon (3-1-1) kept its playoff hopes alive with a 2-0 win over Flanner ( 1-4 ). 
There will be two intcrhall hockey games played tonight. In the Corrigan division, Fisher ( 0-4) will be playing Carroll ( 0-4) while in the Krause division Flanncr will take on Cavanaugh/Howard. 
The Ohsert•er Notr<: Dame oftin·. lot·alt·J on lht· third tloor of Lal'onun<: Student Centt-r. accepts classitkd aLIH-rti,in~o: from l) a.m. until-~ p.m .. :vlontlay through Friday. 1be Ohsert•er Sdllll :\lary·, olfin·. locatl'd on tht· third tloor of Haggar Collt-gt· Center. acct'pts classitinls from 12:.~0 p.m umil ~p.m .. ,\Jon­day though Frit.lay. lkadline for nt·xt-day cla"itit-d' b -~ p.m. All l'ia"itied' must hl' prl'paitl. l'ither in person or h~ mail. ( :har~o:e is I 0 t'l'llh pt-r fin· charac·



Classifieds 
tl'r' l'r da · 

LOST:  SET  OF  KEYS  WITH  ROOM  RIDE NEEDED: INDIANA UNIVERSITY­ RIDE  TO  NEWARK  NEEDED.  CAN  I wish l~al lhey would stop having b1g  Theme nights atthe dining hall! Really,  
NOTICES  KEYS, CAR KEYS, AND HOME KEY (GREEN PLASTIC CLAD). IF FOUND,  BLOOMINGTON SUN.24 WILL  FRIDAY FEB.22· SHARE EXPENSES  LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE  events on the weekends • i've got lo cut my nails.  KefII ...  
PLEASE CALL MO. 3_624.  ANGIE SMC-5273  USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745.  
Chuck· I had a lovely morning, but next  Melody  Ann  Cameron  Melody  Ann  
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  HELP!!!! I lost a large nneslone old· fash1oned clip somewhere at lhe JPW cocktail dance on Fnday: much.much senllmental value!!!! If found, or know of its whereabouts call Linda at277-6856.  FOR SALE  Need riders to Kansas City for Spring Break. Call Tom x1479  time let'o; hold visilalion till aller 11 :OO.(ie­Don't do me any more favors PLEASE') ·DNA( Debbie Not Amused) Whal Is she WARTH lo us? Well.. She's  Cameron Happy 20th Birthday Love Har­mony and Mark I love you for your Pink Cadiffa~. Crushed velvet seats,  
just a girl who "can'! say no" The Annex  Riding in the  back,  oozmg down the  
PRQ-TYPE Computenzed lypmg serv1ce 2n-5833 EXPERT TYPING 2n-8S34 AFTER 5:30 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Professional Typ1ng T1na 232-8749 Typing/Word Processing • also copying. Call Andrea · ~ 11 pm or whenever. 283· 3880.  I D1d II aga•n! I losl "'Y ID and that green little wallel lhat comes Wllh II. I have no 1dent11y Wllhoul it. II you find il PLEASE call Kathy al1296. Thank you. lost Double-slrand gold bracelet al the Americana lasl Fnday night. Special sen­llmenlal value. If found, please call Kathy al 284-4188. FOUND: One woman·s lhin brown leather glove oulside of LeMans. call284-40681o cla1m. SOUTH BEND ~NTER COLD GOT  STEREO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT-ALL BRANDS AT WHOLESALE PRICES­TOM 1527 FOR SALE: GREAT PARTY CAR 1970 OLDS 98$400 X-1768 DISKS GETIING FLOPPY? BASF 31/2" COMPUTER DISKS FOR YOUR MACIN· TOSH COME IN PLASTIC LIBRARY CASES. $35.25/10 ASK FOR DAVE X3049 CHEAPER MAXELL XLII 90'S $24 FOR 10. 1150  NEED A GREAT SATURDAY NIGHT? WVFI, the alternative, and CBS RECORDS present a Video Dance Party -­Sat.. Feb. 23 al 9:00 in Chataqua. $1.00 per person, $1.50 per couple --· music, dancing, give-aways. WVFI AND CBS RECORDS BRING YOU SATUR· DAY NIGHT'S ALTERNATIVE! HEY JOEl ARE YOU EXPERIENCED? THE ONLY DJS THAT MATTER! ARE CALL PAT AT 3318 OR 3317 OR DON AT 3573 CLEAR THE PURPLE HAZE OF OTHER CAMPUS DJS FROM YOUR MIND AND MAKE YOUR NEXT PARTY OR SYR THE ONLY DANCE THAT  would be sad without PATIY JO. Now lhal shes TWENTY. her roommales· one wish Is to tell her she's super: We love you TRISH! And lhat is why, at whalever cost, She's worth il to us, 'cause wilhoul P. we'ro "LAS" HAPPY 201h PATIY WARTH!!I! Love, Lisa, Aimee & Sharon P.S. You were where?! Unlil when?!?! JIM DUDNEY,TOM LEZYNSKI·YOU'RE HEREBY NOMINATED FOR BEST AC­TORS IN A MINI-DRAMA BY VIRTUE OF YOUR PATIENCE WITH "LATE" REHEARSALS AND YOUR READINESS TO LAUGH ALOT.WAS FUN-AN TOS·  street... Bruce Sprfngateen Yeah, it's the damage t11at we do That we never know, And it's the words that we don't say That scare me so. Elvia Coatello The only section that manera In the only donn that maners... the FIGHTIN' PIGS of 3-North, Keenan Hall. (Sow· women Included)  
PROFESSIONAL TYPING: CALL TINA 232-8749  YOU DOWN? TELL ME ABOUT IT·AT LEAST YOU HAVE A JACKET -BUT ONE OF YOU LUCKY PEOPLE HAS TWO  MATTERS! NEED RIDE TO DENVER FOR SPRING  TAL TALENT SHOW MAKE THE COFFEE.  ANYONE?!I'LL  Teardrops turn to children ~ who've never had the time  
ride needed 10 Phila area break,call t213 ask for Bob.  for  spring  AND ONE OF THEM'S MINE! WHOEVER INTENTIONALLY OR INAD· VERTENTLY TOOK MY WHITE ESP I AIT  TICKETS  BREAK, OR RIDERS TO RENT A CAR THINK OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN HIGH!! CALL JUSTINE 2633  TO THE NICEST ADMINISTRATIVE AS· SISTANT I KNOW-ALICE WESOLOSKI:HOW COULD THE  To commit the sins they pay for through...another's evil mind. The love aher the hate, the love we leave  
WORDPROCESSfNG 277-6045 R1da needed to Cmcy 2·22 after 1 :00 call  JACKET FROM SENIOR BAR PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE LEMANS HALL LOST AND FOUND-NO QUESTIONS ASKED.(WHITE FLANNEL WITH SHEEP FUR COLLAR) .......................  IF YOU GOT IT, I NEED IT !! I NEED FOUR (4) GA'S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN DISTRESS PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT 3714 .  Wanting to go on the SAB trip 10 Ft. Lauderdale bul you don't have lhe cash!  ARKIES OR ANY OF US GET ALONG WITHOUT YOU?THANKS SO MUCH FOR A GREAT TIME TUESDAY(BETTY CROCKER IS HISTORY!)AND FOR ALL YOU DO YOU'RE THE BEST.  too/ate: I wish we'd wake up ono day-andevery­one feel moved, But we ·re caught up in the dailies and an ever-changing mood. The Style Counell  
Moe3620 Clevelander's: The "Social Gathering" for Feb. 21 is moved to Mar. 8. II is al the  LOST:KEY RING WITH SMC 1.0. AND KEYS. IF FOUND PLEASE CAU SMC 5489  PLEASE HELP! !lleed 4 or 5 BYU GA's. Will Pay BIG BUCKS.Woody 1188  Call283-3815 and find out about a greal discount! SPEND SATURDAY NIGHT DANCING  UNCLE WIGGLY, Thanks for the walk around the lake' -NURSE JANE FUZZY WUZZY  
same address. PLEASE COME' PROFESSIONAL TYPING: CALL TINA 232-8749 LOST/FOUND FOUND: A set of car keys on a lurquoise and black key chain on lhe lot between Walsh and Sorin on Sunday Feb. 17, 1985. To da1m call Beth at2978. AAAAAAAAAAH' I'm losing everything' 1 black gloves-Haggar 2/8 (name inside) 2  LOST· Camerallaah On the cross countr; course back by the cemelaty. II found please call 284-5186. Reward: 1 SIX pack. To whomever look my Ralph Lauren 1ean jackel trom sen~or bar: Since my license was in the pockel you obviously know who II belongs to. I'll pny to gel II back, but if you really need a jacket that badly, could you alleasl mall my license back lo me? You have my name and my campus ad­dress is in the boo!< (SMC). ~~TED  Help! Need two GA's for the Washington Basketball game. Call 3790 and ask for Bob. HELP! Need 3 GA's or Student Tickels for lhe BYU Game. Will PAY BIG BUCKS!! PLEASE call Pete at 1170. SAN FRANCISCO FLIGHT SPRING BRK Highesl offer· Tim 1187 HELP!!! My parents have never seen an NO bas· ketball game. and I'm aboul to graduale' It you have any ava1lable GA's for a weekend game. call Lorio at 2!110-TOday! (I'm a bll of a pup, so rnoney is no object.)  WlTH CBS RECORDS AND WVFI, THE ALTERNATIVE I really really need 2 or 3 GA's lo the March 3rd Washinglon game Christine (SMC)4064 ATTENTION All members of Noire Dame's 1985 Microbiology Marketing Club Our gala annual petri dish sale will begin soon! Walch !his space for details. TONY ANDERSON, COME ON DOWN! You're the next contestant on "The Price Is Right.'  Dear Sieve: Thanks for a wonderful weekend. Let us know if you need another $thou! Love, Mom and Dad Steven E.--f love you lots Big Bro'-­Sheshu A TALENT SHOW SPONSORED BY THE SOCIAL AL TEA· NATIVES CLUB FIRST PRIZE $100 ALL INTERESTED ACTS MEET IN LITTLE THEATRE ON THURSDAY, FEB 21 AT7PM ONCE UPON A TIME IN FAR AWAY DOMEHLAND THERE WAS AN INSTI· TUTIOt~ CALLED FREE UNIVERSITY. Free llniversily feaiUred several fun  My name is Doug, checkl 1. yes 2. yes 3. no 4. no 5. no ... well, maybe I am a Dorner, check! Check me oul ! (love !hose matching boxers!!!) Yours truly. Beware Men of ND-Cathy D. Ia on the prowl for a Senior Formal Date. Don't let her 1-In your direction. RUN and HIDE!! I really really need 2 or 3 GA's to the March 3rd Washinglon game Christine (SMC)4064 TO my Valentine Joe M. So Joe, You have logo. I hope you know, I disrespecl you so.  
blue back-pad< only one slrap 3 red plaid scatf-salurday noghl between PW and Oil· ion II you lound any of these treasures  NEED TWO GA OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR BYU GAME. CALL DON 1219  ...................................  classes to wh•ch few people went. You see. PfiOPie lhoughl that anything !hal was free could not be too fun. Realiz1ng  Th1s may seem low, Low. yes, bul definately no I a low blow. Love.  
P._.. call me (Giraffe. 1714) and you will be rewarded with lotal conciousness on your deathbed  RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED.  CAN  --NEED 2 GAs for BYU game!! Call Lauren al3781.-­ POST GRADUATE VOLUNTEER OP· PORTUNITY-A represenlatlve from the DOMINICAN APOSTOLIC PROGRAM  lhat lhe attundance problem resulted from Free Universily's name, the STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD changed the name  Susie  
LEAVE ANY TIM!: AFTER THURSDAY  will be available in the LIBRARY CON­ to  CHEAP  THRILLS  UNIVERSITY!!!  ATTENTION SENIORS  
loe1: Doubkt-strand gold bracelel at the Amencana last Fnday n~ght. Special sen­limenlal value. II found, please call Kathy  MORNING, MARCH 14. ~U SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745.  Help' I nee<l4 tickets to the B.Y.U. game and I'm 4 short. Can you help? If so. call Tony at1675.  COURSE on Friday, Februar;-22 from 10 AM to 4 PM to consult with students lnter­esled in giving a year of SOfVice in the  Once lhe name was changed, the people realized, lhe tremendous enjoyment thai could bt! obtained from attending CHEAP  BE AT TIVOLI'S TONIGHT' ~2. $1 COVER, BRING SMC/ND ID  
at284-4188. LOST: One very small ladles' gold Seiko  Need riders to 1<J1nau City tor Spring  Need 3 B.Y.U. studenltickets; call Miriam 4174  USA. Conlact the Center tor Social Con· corns (23~5293) for information.  THRIUS UNIVERSITY. Cheap Thrills Unlversily sponsors tons of fun classes: Aerobics, Photography, Hula, Aulo Moe·  
- watch, in Soulh Dining Hall before Chnstmaa break. I know 11 was along long lime ago, and you·re probably used 10 weanng it by now, but II you have a heart. I'd like 11 back. wtlh no queslions asked, except maybe "How did you get lhal Illite liny walch lo fi1 your wrist?" (You see, I have a very small wnsl and 11 only fits me).  Break. Call Tom x 1479 ·············································· Need a qualified PIANIST lo give lessons 10 an NO sludent Gall Rob 1 076 10 Part-time ,_rchara wanted by Chicago pubtlahlng company. Have  SPRING BREAK IN FLORIDA? Have X­tra AT bx To MIAMI from CHI FOR ONLY $178.00!! call Chns or Dick al X2289. NEED 2 GA'S FOR BYU OR WASH SO MOM AND DAD CAN SEE A GAME CALL LORI AT 2810  HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THE YELLOW SUB 272-4453 MQ-TH 8· I 1 pm FR-SA8pm-1am To all wild and crazy LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS: This is a big weekend for the kids. Friday night, we have our lirst dance of lhe semester: a SQUARE  hanics, Computers, Bartending, Invest­ments, Self Assertion, Job lnlertview Skills Car-Planning, Ct'ndltloning. and many more S1gn ups are Monday. Feb 25 •n lho La Fortune B~llroom at7-9pm  Jeanne-Bean, BEWARE' This is your Warning' Tty me once more-PLEASE' John-The midwesl isn't so bad.  
Thanks, I'd appreCtale i1. Yours in Notre Dame, Kalhy (3747).  fun on campua wtlf.. -.,lng money ...It can be done' Call 312-266-4840 or wrlte SARSAP,,,RILLA, Ltd., 62 W.  PARENTAL UNITS ARRIVING FRIDAY SELL ME BYtt TIX PLEASF 11 CALL  DANCE from 7:30 to 10 pm. Saturday morning will be the beginning ot a new tradilion as we have CARNIVAL REC.  Aunt J1~mrma rs the i•Chest womar  Bashful  
DANGER: 6 foot black scarf loel at ACC  Huron, Chicago, IL 601110.  KAREN 277-6740  VOLUNTEERS  are  NEEDED  for  both  RIDERS NEEDED: For spnng break to  
skaling  a""' lasl  Friday  is  known  to  events. If you've never been to Logan  To the·  admirer al  NO  thanks  for lhe  Central Florida. Call 284-5480.  
strangle unlarmhar necks. Please return  Help! I need 4 ticllets for lhe B.Y.U. game  Center but always wanted to go, now Ia  telegram. Bul who are you? Give me a  
to Mark. 3828 I LOST MY BB TICKET AT THAT TER­RIBLE GAME AGAINST LOYOLA. SEC­ and f 'm 4 Short. Can you help? It so, call Tony al1675. AiD'E NEEOeo ro FOO'T'WA'YNE'FEB.  PERSONALS  your chance. See you !here lhls weekend. ................................................ Help. I need 4 lickels to lhe B.Y.U. game  call. T.D.  ANN GAERTNER -SMC's best sprinler. We all know you made Nalionals bul mistakes are made. your Buddies  
TION 3  ROW  2. IF  YOU  FOUND  IT  22 CALL: JOHN 2n-6559  and I'm 4 short. Can you help? If so. call  Happy two years, MK & Paul! Love M & L  TO  THE GUY WHO  WANTS  ME  TO  
PLEASE  CALL  JACK  AT  1670.  MY  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR,  Tony al1675.  (your -..onderful roomies)  IRON HIS SHIRTS: If you'd stop sleeping  
NAME IS ON IT. PLEASE. I AM A SENIOR AND THIS IS MY LAST  Rida<s needed to CLEVELAND. Leave 2/22 afternoon, n>tum 2/24. Call Ron al  CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  ................................................MR: o·s cANNING FACTORY' MR. D.'S  ......................................................... POMI SMITH·"Aarin' to Go"  in LaFortune and on heal vents. I'd do it' By the way, Happy Belaled Val!!fltlfle}. _  
CHANCE  TO  SEE  OUR  TEAM  DO  4256.  CANNING  FACTORY!  BE  THERE  .............................. .  Day! MS'Jhiel\  - ~­ 
WELL  THURSDAY-FEB.  21.  PRIZES  NOTRE  DAME  IN  THE  MOANING.  
HELP. A gorgeous broad needs a ride to  BEST  TIME-BEST  VALUE:  WHERE:  RAFFLED  OFF  ALL  NIGHT.  MATT BURCHAELL AND THE SMEU  Hey Zeus: Congrats! I knew you could do  
Loel: pair ol gold wire framed glasses 1n  Chicago (NW SIB.tion), Western Suburbs  DAYTONA  BEACHII  WHEN:  SPRING  SPONSORED BY THE JUNIOR CLASS  OF ETHANOL  it!  I guess lhe good things are  worth  
black case Name and STOP Number on case. REWARD d found. Please call Matt  (Glen Ellyn ar-ea). or O'Hare this Friday,lhe 22. Waiting for a reply at 2706,  BREAK '85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU· DENTS. CALL 23~5136 OR STOP BY  FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE M.S. FUND DRIVE.  1-iE:L:;;,,,, .. ;.;;;·· ;;;;~;~;;,~9·· ;;;;···~····i~;ij~  waiting for.  
2465  ask for Julie.  SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, LAFORTUNE, MON-FRI, 6·9pm.  1.5  l'iii'i;;;i;;;;;;;;;;;i;;;;.;:Wi;~i:;;i·i~ :,;;;,:,;.;""'··  rinestone old-fashioned clip !hal I lost al lhe JPW cocktail dance -It's got much  Luv, Blondie  
REWARD'  $50.00  offered  lor  brown  Ride needed to ISU. Normal. IL on 3/1.  ..........  ················•·····  .........  sentim""tal value! If you've seen It, call  If VIRGINIA IS FOR LOVER'S, whal is  
Sampsonl!e hard SUIIcase. Luggage tag  Will share usual. Call Kathy 1296.  IF YOU GOT IT, I NEED IT !! I NEED 4  "Success is a journey, not a destination."  Linda al2n-6856.  South Bend lor?  
says Douglas Snell. Call John on days or du1pa1cher everMngs at Un1led L1mo  MODEM. APPLI:-COMPATIBLE  CALL  GA'S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN DISTRESS  Donald Keough, President of Coca-Cola  ............................................. &!:NDCI IS HAVING A PARTY FRIDAY  Computers in BUsiness is one btg  
PLEASE 674-6993 or 255-3068  BRO. JOHN FEDEROWICZ, 239-6395  PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT 3714.  9.45 PI!. BE THEREIIIIIIIIII  ?SYNTAX ERROR  
...  

The Observer Thursday, February 21, 1985-page 11 
Increased playing time was a timely gift for ND freshman Brommeland 
IN ARMY NURSINC YOU KEEPADDINC NEW SKIW. 
It's important that you're treated with the dignity 
and respect accorded an Army officer. And it's 
important to work in a modern medical center, 
earn a top salary, and travel. But perhaps the 
most important aspect of Army Nursing is the 
dedication to education. In Army Nursing you 
have the opportunity to attend professional con­
ferences, pursue advanced degrees and study a 
variety of nursing specialties. 
Ifyou're a student working on a BSN or ifyou 
already have a BSN and are registered to practice 
in the United States or Puerto Rico, look into 
Army Nursing. Stop by or call us at: 
SGT. Bergstrom 
Call collect '815) 727-9120 
ARMY NURSECORPS. BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 

By MARlY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
Christmas, a joyous time ofgiving, was extra-special this year for for­ward Kathy Brommeland of the Notre Dame women's basketball team. It was at this time that the 6-3 freshman learned from the Irish coaching staff that her hard work in practice had paid off, and that she would be given the gift of a greater role on the team in the new year. 
Mary DiStanislao's squad was not playing up to its potential, and it was hoped that perhaps some versatile play off the bench by Brommeland could spark some life into the crew. For Brommeland, who had been used sparingly up to that point ofthe season, the news came as a pleasant surprise. 
"At the beginning of the season, I wasn't upset about not playing," says 
,. ~ A Reminder that the Deadline for Nominating a Senior Student for the 
Distinguished StudentAward 
is 

Friday, Feb. 22 

Nomination forms are available in the Campus Ministry Office Memorial Ubrary, the Center 
for Social Concerns or the Alumni Office (201 Admin. Bldg.) 


more playing time after Christmas. So I came back from break and 
worked  extra-hard,  and  concen­ 
trated even  more  to  prepare  
myself."  

The concentration and dedication paid dividends slowly for the Irish, as Brommeland patiently adjusted into the do-or-die role of top substi­tute. On a four-game road trip in early January, she averaged only seven minutes a game in her new role, but she netted six points and seven rebounds against UCLA and four points, four rebounds against Maryland. 
But it was at the end of January, when classmate and fellow top­substitute Sandy Botham was forced i~to the starting lineup by the departure from the team of senior center Carrie Bates, that Brom­meland finally gelled into tier role and made her greatest contribu­

Brommcland, "In fact, I wasn't very tions. comfortable in there. But I kept And the gifts could not have come working hard, and I learned from my at a better time for the Irisii, as they mistakes. found themselves beginning their 
"Then ( A~sistant Coach) Mary all-important North Star Conference Murphy told me I would be getting schedule. 



The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
News Editor  Features Editor  
Saint Mary's Executive  Photo Editor  
Editor  Controller  

Sports Editor Advertising Manager Viewpoint Editor Production Manager 
Questions about these positions should be directed to Sarah Hamilton at The Observer. Personal statements and resumes are due Wednesday, Feb. 27 at5 p.m. 

The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Against Butler on Jan. 30, Brom­meland went to work, coming off the bench to score 13 points and haul down four rebounds, as the Irish defeated the Lady Bulldogs, 79­40. 
Two days later against Evansville, Brommeland continued her strong 


: The Progressive Music Club presents... :
• 


i• • TONIGHT !• • 
! Thursday, February 21 ! ! at Chatauqua ! !• /~~ on 2nd floor LaFortune !• 
• i•
i / 10:00-11:30 pm 
! and Sunday, February 24th at the Nazz, 8 pm-10 pm ! • 
.. 
Kathy Brommeland 

play, netting eight first-half points in twelve minutes of action. She con­cluded that game, which the Irish won 74-53, with 12 points on six-of­eight shooting, and five boards. 
Continuing her assault on North Star Conference opponents, she scored five points in ten minutes against Dayton, and then, finally, a career-high 20 points in 22 minutes ofplay in the Irish blowout ofXavier last week. 
Coach DiStanislao was, to say the least, satisfied. "She came off the bench and really gave us a boost with her ability to score," the Irish coach says. "She was willing to do the work. She has come a long way, and she gains more confidence as she goes along." 
Brommeland, who prepped at Naples High School in Naples, Fla., is an extraordinarily versatile player, since at 6-3 she can play the strong inside game, or step out and utilize her deft shooting touch from the outside. This flexibility makes her an ideal player off the bench, ready to step in wherever she is needed. 
"Her best asset is her strength inside," says DiStanislao, "Plus she has a very good touch around the basket, and an exceptional shooting touch from outside, whlch most people her size do not have. 
"But," DiStanislao adds, "she has to learn how to play more agressively and to use her strength on defense." 
Brommeland agrees with her coach's assessments. "My weakness is agressiveness, especially in rebounding. Everyone in the college game is so agressive. I just have to get used to going after the ball. 
"It's coming though," she adds, "Now I'm getting more experience and I'm learning to adjust to the flows ofthe game." 
And as Kathy Brommeland gets in the groove, so do the Irish, who find themselves 14-8 on the season and in first-place at 7-1 in the confer­ence. 
For the young Brommeland it was a very merry Christmas, and, so far, it has been a happy new year. 
The Observer Thursday, February 21, 1985-page 12 

Zamboni driver an important part of ND hockey 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame hockey 
team takes the ice for a game it 
becomes the center of attention. 
The fans' cheers are directed at the 
players, coach, and to a lesser ex­
tent, the manager and trainer. All are 
visible parts of what constitute 
Notre Dame Hockey. 
Few people. however, will stop 
and turn their attention to the east 
end ofthe ACC ice rink where, as the 
team prepares to make its entrance, 
the Zamboni driver is making his 
exit. 
Lost in the shutlle and excitement 
of the game, the job ofthe Zamboni 
driver is often taken for granted. 
Holding the responsibilities at the 
ACC for ice rink set-up and mainte­
nance as well as keeping the arena 
clean and presentable are Notre 
Dame's own Ice Men: Harry Onax, 
Larry Grant and Kevin Clark. 
Starting in early September, the three men work together on the day shift in order to get the rink set up. 
Once the boards are in place, the compressor, which runs the eight miles of cooling pipes in the con­crete floor, is turned on 12-24 hours in advance of applying the first layer ofice. 
When the temperature reaches 20 degrees Fahrenheit, a fire hose is used to spray the water that will pro­vide the quarter-inch base for the ice surface. 
White chalk is then applied to give the surface its color. 
Another cne-eighth inch of water is sprayed over the chalk and then the markings for the lines and face­offcircles are scribed into the ice. 
"We try to have the best ice possi­ble," adds Onax. a 13-year staff vet­eran. "We get the greatest satisfaction when players come up and tell us that the ice was good." 
Keeping the ice in 'good' shape, though, is not as easy as it might seem. The Zamboni itself is a compl­icated piece of machinery. 
A 212-gallon tank in the body of the machine is filled with hot water, 

Rams 
continuedfrom page 16 
a zone to try to force them out of their range," he said. "We also took time off the clock with the defense." 
IRISH ITEMS · Field goals ac­counted for only 12 ofNotre Dame's 32 second-half points... The Irish ( 16-7) flew home this morning to prepare for Saturday's game against BY{I... The Rams ( I 7-9) need to win the Metro-Atlantic Athletic Confer­ence tournament to get an NCAA bid. 
Notre Dame 65, Fordham 54 Notre Dame (65) 
M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Barlow  35  5-9  7-10  1  4  17  
Royal  30  1-2  5-6  6  4  7  
Kempton  36  3-5  4-5  7  3  10  
Hicks  25  3-6  1-3  6  3  7  
Rivers  36  8·14  6-8  3  2  22  
Duff  17  0-0  0-0  1  1  0  
Dolan  10  0-2  2-2  2  1  2  
Price  5  D-1  0-0  0  0  0  
Beeuwsaert  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
Voce  o-o  0-0  0  0  0  
Peters  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
Spencer  1  o-o  0-0  0  0  0  
200 20..39 25-34  26  18  65  
FG  Pet.  .513.  FT  Pet.  ·  .735.  Team  

rebounds · 5. Turnovers -· 15. Assists -11 (Duff 4, Kempton 3). Technicals ·none. Fordham (54) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P McCormick 40 2-6 7-8 7 4 11 Samuels 36 2-B 5-6 7 3 9 Williams 34 1-4 1-2 7 3 3 Hobble 32 4-10 1-2 2 5 9 Mcintosh 34 B-17 0-0 2 5 16 Robinson 7 0-1 0-0 0 0 . 0 Jones 15 3-6 0-0 1 5 6 Brooks 10-0 0-0020 Dicenta 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 200 2D-52 14-18 26 27 54 
FG Pet .385. FT Pet. · .778. Team rebounds -4. Turnovers -14. Assists -6 (Hobbie 3). Techmcals-none. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 33, Fordham 21 Of­ficials -Mickey Crowley. Larry Lembo, Jerry Loeber (all ECAC) A-10,429. 

which is applied evenly to the ice surface by tiny water jets along the 2,000-pound conditioner on the back of the Zamboni. 
"The density of the hot water al­lows it to freeze faster and to fill grooves quickly," explains Onax. 
"It's not as easy as it might sound," says Grant. "The driver has to prop­erly regulate the water flow so that ridges don't form and so that the ice doesn't build up in the corners." 
"Also on the conditioner is a razor-sharp, seven-foot blade that scrapes the top surface to remove cracks and other holes so that the water will fill them in properly," continues Clark. "If we didn't scrape, the ice would become over five inches thick by the end of the season. 
"When regulating the pressure on the conditioner, you have to be care­ful not to dig too deeply into the ice. It can really cause problems, espe­cially if we hit one of the lines. I also remember a time when I was cutting too deeply, the tank filled up and the snow started shooting out at me." 
As the driver proceeds arround the rink, the snow removed from the ice is carried by two conveyers, first horizontally then vertically, and blown by an impeller into the 300­gallon tank on the front of the ma­chine. 
The snow is then dumped into a pit in the Zamboni room and melted with hot water. 

"The ice men play a key role in maintaining the ice and the equip­ment," says head hockt:y coach Lefty Smith. "You really have to know what you're doing and have to con­centrate when you're doing it. All three, Harry, Larry and Kevin, do a fine job for us." 
"We can't emphasize the impor­tance of concentartion enough," says Onax, who, one time several seasons ago, had tennis balls lofted at him while on the ice. "That inci­dent was not very good, but in gen­eral, the student participation Is great. I just wish we could acknowl­edge it more without fear ofcausing a disaster on the ice." 
"You must learn to block out the crowd," says Clark. "But I do like hearing the students cheeringor yel­ling. It gives you a feeling ofrecogni­tion and appreciation. I really like the job." 
"I like not only working with the equipment, but with the students and all of the people who use the rink," says Grant. "There's a special atmosphere that the kids bring ­from the littlest up to the varsity ath­letes; and it's neat to develop relationships with all of them." 
The Zambonl driver may be a mysterious person to many, but the job is an important one for the smooth functioning of an ice rink. And Notre Dame's Harry Onax, Larry Grant and Kevin Clark are three such 'Ice Men' who know their jobs well. 


Thursday, February 21, 1985-page 13
The Observer 


Gymnastics club not anxious to make jump to varsity level 
ByTOMYOON 
,.......

Sports Writer 
Tom 

With many club sports wanting varsity status, the 
Yoon f:': 
;;;: ' 
gymnastics club, with Tim Sennett as president, wants to remain at club level. Club Corner 
"Being at club level allows beginners an opportunity to learn gymnastics," explains Sennett "but at the same getting committments from students. Even though we time, with the improved facilities, we can still compete 
practice every day for two hours, that still doesn't give with other mid-western varsity teams. Our club has 
us enough time to compete at varsity level. But, with over 40 members and this is our largest club ever. With 
our new first-class equipment, it shouldn't be long the new equipment, which was bought by us and Non­
before we are able to compete with larger teams." Varsity Athletics, and Sandy Vanslager as our coach, it 
With the new equipment the gymnastics team 
will be only a matter of time before we become a force 
bought, the club will be able to have more home meets,in the Midwest." 
which are held at Angela Athletic Center in Saint Mary's. 
In this past weekend's meet in the Angela Athletic Their remaining meets are against Eastern Michigan, Center at Saint Mary's, the women's gymnastics team Miami (Ohio), and School Craft, Michigan. I went up against Purdue and came out victorious. 
"We should defeat School Craft and Miami (Ohio), Leading the way for the women's team this season are 
but Eastern Michigan has a very good team, which will junior Cheryl Sydow and seniors Dena Heisler and 
be very hard to beat," notes Sennett. "They are a very 
l
Megan Zillig. 
strong varsity team and we hope that it will only be a When commenting on the women's team, Tim 
matter of time before we can compete at their level. replied, "The women's team is very strong," notes Sen­
Most likely that time is next year." nett. "They will probably win their last two meets." BOXING CLUB: With the Bengal Bouts quickly ap­The men's team, on the other hand, placed second proaching (March 3, 5,and 8), the Notre Dame boxing behind School Craft, Michigan and ahead of Purdue. club is winding down its training season that began at The men's team is led by sophomore Matt Sennett, the start ofthe semester. junior Mike Downing, senior Mike Dorenbusch, and "The quality of the boxers is very high," says Boxing freshman Paul Nowak, an all-around performer and a Club President Mike Latz, "and I expect many evenly­future team leader. matched bouts and more actions because we are in bet­tershape."
"This year is a rebuilding year because we lost two 
This is the 55th anniversary of the Bouts, and all the 
men to the London program; Rich John and Jim Ciesil, 
money they raise will go to the Bengladesh missions. 
who will both return next year," notes Sennett. 
Their motto is "The strong fight so the weak can be 
"However, our progress has been hamperedd by injur­
nourished." The Bouts, held in Stepan Center, always
ies; Matt has had a shoulder and ankle injury and I have a 
attract large crowds. 
broken left ankle. This probably would have been my 
The Obsrrver/Phil Dtttcr 

best year because I'm in the best shape I have ever been MEN'S VOLLEYBALL: The men's volleyball team is 

john "The Captain" Ubi/ ducks a punch from sparring partner Brian Bates during yesterday's training session. Ubi/ is preparing for the 1985 Bengal Bouts, which begin March 3. Tom Yoon checks up nn thP NntrP name Boxing Club as part oftodav's edition of Club Corner. 

Men's Hair Styling at its finest... 
minutes from campus ! 
OOHAIRCUTS 
Haiccut,



1!'!1. 
shampoo, 
212-0312 
& blowdry
277-1619 
rfJ

S45.H Terrace lane 
$8.50 
(St. Rd. .23) 

Acro~s from Martin's (hair must be shampooed day ofcut) 
We are only minutes from campus ! 

HORIZONS 
The 1985 BCAF Fashion Show 
Black Students Office 
345 O'Shag BCACOffice 2AA LaFortune 
7:30-9:30 pm THURS 
SPONSORED BY: 
J. Riggins  ~Chess King  
Village Scene  Candlelight Fashion  
Richmond Bros.  Berman's  
MiLady  Seifert's  
Pecks  Hit or Miss  
Robertson's  Gilberts  
Ms. Shoppe  


in. But even though I'm injured, I still help coach the having its first home meet at the ACC pit this Friday at 7 other athletes." p.m. The Irish will face Ball State and the University of Since we are only a club, our main concern is Michigan. There is no admission fee so a big crowd is 
academics, and because ofthat reason, it is very difficult expected. 
.!•··············································-Ramblers
• 
: Progressive Music Club : 
continuedfrom page 16 
• presents • the Rambler's drought, but Loyola• • began cutting into the lead behind• • the shooting of center Sue Busiel and some poor foul shooting by Notre Dame. Thirteen minutes into• • the game, the Ramblers had tied the 
score 13-13. 
Notre Dame was able to stretch 

the lead to 27-21, but Loyola scored 
: A Dance Concert with : 

i PAR3 • ~ 
• • the last five points ofthe halfto go to• • the lockerroom just one point down. The Ramblers seemed to be
: Tonight, 10 p.m. :
• • in good shape because the Irish had :C~~~~ : failed to capitalize on an eight­rebound advantage and Loyola's 38­
f -$1/PMC members FREE !.
percent shooting. "We played good defense for the 


first 12 minutes, but then we let up a little," said DiStanislao. "You can't let up when you're playing a goodTH~~ CLASSICAL GUITAR SOCIETY team like Loyola. 
"We were concerned because of
presents: 

the turnovers and the fact that we were giving them good shots, even though they weren't hitting them."
"The FirstLady 
ofthe Guitar" Notre Dame 84, Loyola (Chicago) 59 Loyola (Chicago) (59) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P
LIONABOYD 

Meyers 30 1-5 0-0 2 4 2 Hustzi 16 0-5 0-0 1 5 0 Busiel 40 4-11 6-8 13 4 14
in concert 

1
Mimnaugh 39 7-13 0-0 2 2 14
Saturday, Feb. 23 Leyden 38 5-11 3-5 5 4 13 l Couet 10-0 0-0000 l
8:00p.m. 

Zalig 7 1-1 4-4 1 1 6 O'Laughlin Mcnerney 24 4-10 1-1 3 3 9 
J
Nelson 2 0-0 0-0000Auditorium RidI 3 0-0 1-2 0 1 1 200 22·56 15-20 27 24 59
St. Mary's College 1
FG Pet. .393. FT Pet. -.750. Team rebounds -1. Turnovers -15. Assists -9 (Mimnaugh 5). Technicals-none.
Admission: $10.00 Students: $6.00 i 
Notre Dame (84) 

I 
M FG·A FT·A R F P 

jEbben 25 1-5 0·0 2 2 2 Schueth 36 6-10 5·6 15 3 17
You saw her on the "Tonight Show"Jan. 9, j j 
Botham 31 7-10 3-7 10 4 17 now see her live! Gavin 25 0-2 3-4 0 3 3 ~ Keys 31 10-14 8·12 5 1 28 
I ~ 
Brommeland 8 0-3 0-0 5 3 0 TICKETS AVAILABLE AT: Dougherty 15 4-4 3-4 1 2 11 Barron 9 1-1 2-2 1 0 4
O'Laughlin Box Office at St. Mary's l
Kaiser 9 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 j
Mendoza Guitar Basford 8 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 Morrison 3 0-2 2-2 0 1 2 !
"North Winds" at 100 Center 

200 29--53 26-37 41 19 84 j"Just for the Round" at Town & Country FG Pet. .547. FT Pet. -.703. Team 
I 
rebounds -3. Turnovers -14. Assists -17 (Ebben 7). Technicals ·none.
VISA and MASTERCARD Halftime· Notre Dame 27, Loyola 26. Offi­
l
cials -Dennis Oberlin, Gar Underwood. 
I I 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
---~------~---~-----~~ ­
The Observer Thursday, February 21, 1985 -page 14 

··gQoweh~ fph aQQ occogLo"g '~ 
Come in and Browse 

327 lincolnway 232'-3354 

~Shopping, : 
~ 

-ie

t 
The-Observcr!Vlc Guarino 

Ellen Byrne, senior captain of the Saint Mary's swimmer, and has had the honor ofswimming in 
•

swimming team, bas had a successful career for the the NAL4 Nationals. Kathleen Nicholson profiles ~ Belles. Byrne bas been named an all-America the Saint Mary's star below. 
Saint Mary's swim team leader ~ 
~ Tickets available at the Record Store ~ 

Byrne fared better than expected ••••••••••••••••••••
perience," says Byrne. "I've met a lot

By KATHLEEN NICHOLSON 
Sports Writer 
When Ellen Byrne came to Saint Mary's College her freshman year, she had no intentions of continuing her swimming career. After many years and many yards at the Wisahlckon Acquatic Club, the Gwynedd Vallt·y. Pa. native felt it was time to hang up her goggles when she finished high school. 
Now, with two national competi­tions and All-America status added to her credits, the Saint Mary's senior is glad she decided to stay with the sport she had grown up with. 
"I really didn't expect to swim at Saint Mary's," says Byrne, "but when I got here a few ofthe girls talked me into going out for the team. I'm from a swimming family and have been in­volved with the sport since age eight. I think I would have missed out had I not gone out for the team here." 
Byrne, who is this year's team cap­tain, is considered one of the best swimmers Saint Mary's has ever had. 
"Ellen is a great team leader and motivator," says Coach Dan Byrne. "She has a great deal of discipline and initiative. She's just been a super captain for us this year." 
Byrne, whose specialty is the freestyle, ha~ qualified for the 200-, 400-, and HOO-yd. freestyle relays for this year's NAJA National Competi­tion held in Indianapolis next week. 

"Qualifying for Nationals the past two years and being named a swim­ming All-American have probably been the highlights of my college career," says Byrne. "My first Nation­als, sophomore year, were exciting because the team didn't expect to do well and we surprised ourselves. This year we hope to have a stronger finish than we did last year. I'd really like to see the team place in the Top Ten." 
Since Byrne's freshman year there have been m;my changes in the Saint Mary's swim program. She has seen three different coaches and a pro­gram that has strengthened and ex­panded. She anticipates that swimming will grow at Saint Mary's in future years with the team's access to the Rockne Memorial Pool next fall. 
In addition to Byrne's participa­tion in swimming, the senior has been a standout on the club soccer team and president of the newly­formed Saint Mary's Athletic Coun­
cil. The Athletic Council which Byrne helped to coordinate, represents varsity and non-varsity athletics and functions for the pur­pose of gaining increased recogni­tion and participation in athletics at Saint Mary's. 
"Participation in athletics here at Saint Mary's has been a positive ex­
. 

15%, Discount 


~·not including . 

sale ttems 

niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
of great people and I've gained a sense of discipline and responsibil­ity, especially this year being captain of the swimmers." 
In her four years here, Byrne has been an asset to Saint Mary's through her participation and promotion of athletics. Next Saturday in In­dianapolis she will have the oppor­tunity to represent Saint Mary's in the water one last time as she plunges into the Indiana University natatorium for her final national competition. Byrne will not be for­gotten in the Saint Mary's commu­nity, though, once the competition is over. Her hard work and initiative in the promotion and expansion of athletics at the college will serve as the basis for a greater emphasis on women's sports at Saint Mary's in future years. 

EVEN STRAIGHTItS CAN'T HELP IF YOU FWNK TUITION. 
Today, the toughest thing about going to college is finding the money to pay for it. But Army ROTC can help-two ways! 
First, you can apply for an Army ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition, books, and supplies, and pays you up to $1,000 each school year it's in effect. 
But even if you're not a ·scholarship · · ROTC can still with financial assis, tance-upto$1,000 a year for your . · last two years in .· 
the program . 
For more information, contact your Professor of Military Science 
ARMY ROTC. 
BEAUlOU CAM BE. 
CALL LTC 
CPT 
239-6264 



Dinner& : Dancingie 
in Chicago II t
•

Saturday, February 23rd ~ :$15.00/person ~ 



TU!I~I'I,. ~V· -------------------. This Week at the Engineering Auditorium 



~~~~~ ms~UNTCDUPDN ~--------~~--------~ 
~4(Jt~C3L~------------------------------------T_h_u_r_sd_a_y_,F_e_b_ru_a_ry
__2_1,_1_9_8_5___P_ag_e_1__5 
Doonesbury Garry ;'ru<..h:au 

Zeto K<..fin Walsh 

Bloom County BerK.e Bn:atnt::d 

The Far Side Gary Larson 
GCNEI?~l. .. Wt /JON"( 

"Well, I've got your final grades ready, although I'm afraid nat everyone here will be moving up." 

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 34 Gardener at 62 Villa d'-17 Afr. river times 63 Good-18 Holiday times 35 Doris or Dennis (nice guy) 23 Shot and shell 
1 Ferber 
64 Stepped heavily 24 Biarritz

5 Bartok 
36 Convention 
65 At no time to blintze

9 Prayer wheel 
VIPS 

user poets 25 At this place
40 Overhead 
66 Ernie-

trains 26 Inquired 14 Elevator man 41 Before: pref. 27 Inscribed stone 13 Nose around 
DOWN 
28 Rendezvous 42 Stephen

15 Bedouin head 
cord 1 Arthurian lady 29 Mails
Vincent­

16 Piano novelty 2 Betoofond 30 Blissful abodes 
43-from 
3 Margin scribble 31 Peepshow

song (belittles) 19 Brainchild 
4 Zoo attraction 

32 Methods: abbr. 
5 Pioneer of yore

20 One -million 46 Removes suds 
34 Writerof 

21 Left-hand page 47 Chi-chi 6 Lab burner 
children's
48 Twosome 7 Ignited 
books

22 Conte 
49 Meager

24 TV performer 8 Residue 37 Diplomacy26 "-goes by" 52 Make lace 9 L.A. five 53 Eye part 10 Antiquer 38 Nichol's 29 Dry cleaning 57 Mayor's gift 11 Diamond great protagonist employees to a VIP 12 In addition 39 Derby site 33 Sen. Thurmond 61 Swiss river 13 Schuss 44 Graded 
45 Comic Johnson 52 Bagtype 46 Baseball great 54 Pill container 48 Stamping 55 Feminine ending 
machine 56 Pro vote 49 RBI or ERA 58 Urge 50 Burn to a 59 Half a fly 
crisp 60 Psychic 51 Flying prefix initials 
Wednesday's Solution 
CLARO.BASEOI~~;!:
A U G E R A M 0 R E ~~~ BLUNOERBU,~ ~J-~ 
S U E D. I G 0 R P I K E S 
I-E-POTASH
MONROE VERNAL­ALI EN HEROD.ORA R I NID P I LA F ARAB 
so c•MA.Niu n E
111110 N AIG E R F R AM E D ERMINIE PING­
,J'.J_,J'~~ P E A r• R I T A J~~ c H E A pIK A T E s cRJ.~ L A P S E E M I T S M A P E M E E R A S S E T 
:campus 
•9 
a.m.-5 p.m.-Kellogg Institute Workshop, "Feminist Theory, State Policy and Rural Women in Latin America," Through Saturday, Feb. 23. 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Pair and Triplet Correlations Among Hard Spheres at High Pressure," Dr. Paul Siders, ND, Conference Theatre, Radiation Labora­tory. 

•4 
p,m. -Seminar Lecture, "The Eclipse of Old Hostilities Between -And the Potential for New Strife Among -Catholics and Protestants Since Vatican II," Prof. Mark Noll, Wheaton College, Memorial library Lounge. 

•4:10 
p.m.-Presentation, "Careers for Language Majors," Paul Reynolds, Assistant Director, Career & Placement Services, Room 103 O'Shaughnessy. 

•5 
-6:30 p.m. -Workshop, "Study Skills & Time Management," Mary Theis, M.A., Room 300 of Counseling & Psychological Services, Free. 

•7 
p.m.-Judicial Council Meeting, Room 122 Hayes Healy. 

•7 
p.m. -Thursday Night FUm Series, "Toni," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.-Film, "Annie Hall," Engineering Auditorium, n.50. 

•7:30 
p.m, -Lecture, "Hagel and Historicism," Prof. Stanley Rossen, Pennsylvania State University, Center for Social Concerns. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, SMC vs. Purdue, Angela Athletic Facility. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Form and Composition," Prof. Douglas Kinsey, ND, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Friends of the Snite Museum, S2 (non-members) & Sl (friends & students). 

•7:30 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Is There An African History to Study?" Prof. Bruce Haight, Western Michigan University, ETS Theatre in the CCE. 

•
7:30 p.m. -Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Ath­letes, Center for Social Concerns, Everyone Welcome. 

•8 
p.m. -Harpsichord Recital, SMC little Theatre. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Marist Fantasy and Bourgeois Reality: A Look at Rome's Social History," Prof Stephen Dyson, Wesleyan University, Galvin Auditorium. 

•10 
p.m. -Concert, Band: Par 3, Chatauqua, Sponsored by Progressive Music Club. 



©1985 Tnbune Media Services, Inc. 
2121/85
All Rights Reserved 
... 

I 
TONIGHT

I I 
10% off on purchases under $5
I 
announees

I 15% off on purchases over $5 I 

''ANNIE

I Discounts up to 15% c:lip and save this ad!!
I I 2nd Floor LaFortune 
EMPIRES lll/1/85 
HALL'' 

I I Open M-F, 3-7 p.m. 7 00

i------------------~~~~~~..-.=_ :_;~_5°_o___
____ •_•_=o_o__ 

FRIDAY& SATURDAY 
~~ 
........ -, .....o
...\ ....., .........-., · ......... .

. ...-.........--. ··~·-­
._7_=_oo---9-=0_o__•_•_=o_o__$_•_.s_o.. 
Thursday, February 21, 1985-page 16


SRorts 

Rivers' 22 pace Irish in 65-54 win ov·er Fordham 

DavidRivers led all scorers with 22 points in last night's 65-54/risb victory overFordham at Madison Square Garden. The freshman guard topped a trio ofNotre Dame scorers in 
Th~ ObKrvcr/Vjc Guarino 
doublefigures as the Irish raised their record to 16-7. Dave Dziedzic bas the game story at left. 

By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Obsen•erSpecial Wrtter 
NEW YORK -Notre Dame's quest for an NCAA tournament bid is still going strong after last ni.~t's 65-54 victory over Fordham. 
"This was a tough and important win for us," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "With 

, 
three of our last five games at home, we have an excellent shot at 20 wins and an NCAA bid." 
The Irish dictated the tempo most of the game and took advantage of their free-throw opportunities before I 0, 4 29 at Madison Square Garden 
"We had to keep the tempo going," said Phelps. "We wanted to jump out early and force the at·tion." 
The Irish did indeed jump in front, using a balanced scoring attack to take a 35-21 halftime lead. 
Employing a tough man-to-man defense, Notre Dame kept pressure on Fordham. The Rams suffered rwo first-half field goal droughts ( 4:51 and 5:30) in which they looked tentative and uncomfortable. 
"We weren't playing our game offensively in the first half," said Fordham coach Tom Penders. whose tt·am shot just 28 percent in the half. "Notre Dame's defense was the rea­son. They're the best defensive club we've played." 
Especially impressive was the defense of Irish sophomore guard Scott Iiicks. Iiicks cov­ered senior guard Tony Mcintosh, Fordham's leading scorer. like a glove. Mcintosh, averag­ing more than 19 points a game, could manage only six first-half points and 16 for the game. 
The Irish once again were lead by freshman David Rivers, who scored 22 points and con­trolled the game's tempo. 
"This is David Rivers," said Phelps. "That's 

.... 
Seniorguard Laura Dougherty, co-captian ofthe Notre Damt• women's basketball team, picked up II points onfour-of-four shooting from the field in last night's 84-59 victory 


ND controls tempo, converts timely free throws to beat Rams in Garden 
what you didn't see on Saturday, when Duff 
and Hicks were out." 
Phelps was referring to the recent loss to Duke at the nearby Meadowlands Arena, during which Rivers was forced to play the whole game. He played 36 minutes last night. 
Junior forward Ken Barlow had 17 points and classmate Tim Kempton added I 0. Hicks and sophomore Donald Royal had seven each. Junior Jim Dolan, with two points, was the only Irish non-starter to score. 
Even though the Irish had the game under control most of the way, the Rams stayed close by applying tough defensive pressure in the second half. Fordham cut the Irish lead to four with 9:28 remaining, but that's as small as the lead shn,mk.. The Irish made nine of 14 free throws from that point to keep the Rams at bay. 
"I'm proud of the way the team kept its composure in the second half," Phelps said. "We followed our game plan and it payed off." 
As they have all season. the Irish continued their solid free throw shooting, hitting 7 4 per­cent (25-of-34) for the game. The Rams shot 78 percent from the line, but went to the line only 18 times. 
Penders expressed some displeasure with the officiating. "It was a very physical game," he said. "I thought some calls went the wrong way. "Their free throws kept us out of our flow once we had gotten closer. But Notre Dame is a very good basketball team. Our kids played well but didn't deserve to win tonight." 
Three Rams guards -Mcintosh, Jerry Hobbie and reserve George Jones -fouled out of the game. 
Phelps changed defenses in the· second half, switching to a hustling zone. "We switched to 
see RAMS, page 12 


Keys scores 28 as ND women beat Loyola, 84-59 
Irish tighten gri]p on NSC top spot by dominating Ramblers in 2nd half 

By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame women's basketball Iteam gave the rest of the North Star Conference a very strong message when it destroyed! the NSC defending champions, Loyola ofChicago. 84-59, in the ACC last night. To win the con­ference championship, you are going to have to beat Notre Dame first. 
The Irish left no doubt that they are: the team to beat in the North Star when they !blew open a tight one-point game in the second half with one of the nation's best defenses and with a 23-point explosion by forward Trena Keys. The win strengthened Notre Dame's hold on the top spot in the conference as it improved the Irish NSC record to 7-1 ( I 4-8 overall). Dayton, which lost to Notre Dame earlier, stands second at 8-2, while the third­place Lady Ramblers fall to 6-3 ( 1 S-S overall). 
It was a 14-0 spurt during a four-minute span in the second half that put the Irish in control. From the 15:1 I to 1 I :OS mark, Notre Dame stretched its lead from 38-35 to 52-35 and Loyola could never recover. The Ramblers never were closer than 1 1 before the Notre Dame bench came on to stretch the lead into the 20s. 
"I was really happy with our first 12 minutes and our last 20," said Irish coach Mary DiStanislao. "We played very good defense and Trena did a good job on off•~nse. Also, (freshman point guard) Mary Gavin didn't turn the ball over so we could run our 11ffense. In fact, I think (the nation's assist leader) Faith Mimnaugh may have met her match." 
Gavin and her teammates were able to shut 
own Loyola's offense which had been averag­ing just under 73 points a game by containing Mimnaugh, who had been averaging an amazing 11.6 assists per contest. The 5-2 senior who runs the Rambler offen~e was held to five assists-only one in the second half-by an Irish defense that held the visitors to 39­percent shooting. With Loyola having its shooting problems and Notre Dame dominat­ing the boards ( 44-28 rebounding edge), the Ramblers gradually gave out. 
"We knew the key to winning the game was to beat them on the boards," said DiStanislao. "We couldn't let them get any second shots, something I think we did very well." 
Forward Mary Beth Schueth and center Sandy Botham did most of the work under the boards, combining for 25 rebound~. almost as much as the entire Loyola team. A number of those rebounds turned into Notre Dame bas­kets as both Schueth and Botham picked up 1 7 points. 
However, as usual, the star of the offense was Keys. The junior finished with 28 points ( 10-of-14 from the field, 8-of-12 from the line). Ten of those points came early in the second halfwhen the Irish stretched their 27­26 halftime lead to double digits. She was one offour Notre Dame players to scort· in double figures-Laura Dougherty joined her, Schueth and Botham by scoring I 1. 
With Keys playing a major role, Notre Dame was able to overcome nine first-half turnovers that' allowed Loyola to stay dose, despite the fact that the visitors did not even score a point for the first five-and-a-half minutes of the game. 
The Irish wen: ;lhlt-1o ~o .• head 8-0 during 
see RAMBLERS. pa~e 13 










