
Music review -pages 6-7 

VOL XIX, NO. 81 th~.: indt.·pt:n(.knt stud<:nt n<:wspap<:r s<:rving notr<: Jam<: and saint mary's MONDAY,JANUARY 28, 1985 

Sophomore Mike Varlotta plays pool Foodsales room. 

More report V()ting in 1984, says Census Bureau survey 
Associated Press the Census report still provides the 
best picture ofvoting trends by sex, 
WASHINGTON -An increase in race and region of the country, the number of voting women and O'Connell said. blacks in November helped push Among whites, 61.4 percent said turnout up for the first time in two they voted, up from 60.9 percent. decades, the Census Bureau re­Among those ofSpanish origin, 32.6 ported yesterday. percent said they voted, up from 
The bureau reported that almost 29.9 percent. The bureau said the 60 percent of the 50,000 people it low turnout rate for Hispanics was surveyed two weeks after the na­due to a large proportionsaying they tional election said they had voted. were not citizens and therefore That is I percent more than in a were ineligible to vote. similar survey conducted in Novem­Turnout among men remained at ber 1980. 59 percent. 
Sixty-one percent of women said Overall, 59.9 percent ofthose sur­they voted, up two points from the veyed said they voted, compared previous election, while 55.8 per­with 59.2 percent in 1980. In 1964, cent of blacks said they voted, up the first time Census conducted a from 50.5 percent in 1980. survey on voting behavior, 69.3 per­
The bureau projected that if cent said they voted. everyone who said they voted actu­Voter turnout among the un· ally did so, then 101.8 million employed jumped from 41 to 44 people would have cast their ballots percent, but they still lagged far be­last Nov. 6. hind people with jobs in getting to 
But that is about 9 million more the polls. Jobholders voted at a 62 than the 92.6 million who voted in percent rate. the'presidential election. 
Martin O'Connell, a Census offi­The turnout rose steadily with cial, said, "People tend to overreport age. Only 36.7 percent of those ages their voting behavior in the survey." 18 to 20 voted, compared to 72.1 
The overestimates usually run in percent for those 55 to 64. Among the range of 7 to 10 percent, said other age groups, the rates were: 21­O'Connell. Some are caused by fam­24, 43.5 percent; 25-34, 54.5 per­ily members misreporting whether cent; 35-44, 63.5 percent; 45-54, other adults in the household voted, 67.5 percent; 55-64, 72.1 percent; and some by people lying. 65-74, 71.8 percent; 75 and older, 
But even with those distortions, 61.2 percent. 
AssociatedPress 

LONDON-British newspapers re­ported yesterday that Soviet Presi­dent Konstantin Chernenko is being treated in the intensive care unit ofa private Kremlin hospital, and may relinquish power because of deterioratin~ health. 
Western diplomats contacted by The Associated Press in Moscow said they had not heard any such reports, although most said they believe the 73-year-old Chernenko is ailing. 
The Sunday Times quoted "unofficial reports" as saying Chernenko, who has not been seen in public since Dec. 27, will become the first Soviet leader to step down voluntarily. 
Another newspaper, The Express, carried a report that said Chernenko "has become so ill he may be forced to resign." The newspapers did not say what their sources were, or how they obtained their information. 
The Sunday Times said the ruling Politburo already has approved a plan to replace Chernenko with 53­year-old Mikhail Gorbachev, widely believed to rank second in the Kremlin hierarchy. 
"Under this plan, Gorbachev would take over the post of general 
Associated Press 

MARACAIBO, Venezuela-Latin music greeted Pope John Paul II as he stepped off his plane yesterday in this steamy South American oil cen­ter beside the Caribbean. Posters read: "Our Sun Is More Radiant With Your Presence." 
Earlier, he condemned abortion, sterilization and divorce at a Mass in the capital of Caracas before hundreds of thousands who endured stifling heat in this nominally Roman Catholic country. 
The bands at the Maracaibo air­port continued playing as the pontiff walked through the crowds and into the "popemobile." Huge crowds of Venezuelans, Colombians and native Indians lined the flag-covered papal route, swelling past police barriers and armed soldiers to get closer to him. 
John Paul, the first pope to visit Venezuela, received a similar greet­ing Saturday when he arrived in Caracas, the first stop on a four­nation trip that will take him to Ecuador, Peru and Trinidad-Tobago. The journey is the pontiff's sixth to Latin America and his 25th abroad. 
Vatican officials said Archbishop Miguel Obando y Bravo of Managua, Nicaragua, was among the prelates gathered in Maracaibo, a city of I million near the Colombian border, for the pope's overnight stop. 
John Paul welcomed them during an outdoor evening Mass, saying, "Greeting to the pastors of Nicaragua and El Salvador who are present here." Arturo Rivera Damas, archbishop of San Salvador, and Obando y Bravo were among several 
Chernenko in intensive care, British newspapers report 
bishops in Venezuela to meet today altar covered with a gold handmade with the pontiff. carpet told a wildly cheering audi­
John Paul has offered to mediate ence that religious teaching "should in the Central American conflicts, be present in all (schools), without and Obando y Bravo has held fre­distinction." quent talks with him about the tense church-state relations in Nicaragua At the Mass in Caracas, the pontiff and the four priests in the leftist gov­said, "Remember, it is never legal to ernment. The church recently end a human life with abortion or suspended the four after they euthanasia." At least 500,000 people refused appeals to resign their posts. attended the Mass in an open field 
The pope, speaking from a large beneath a hillside shantytown. 

secretary of the Communist Party, but would not necessarily assume the presidency a mainly ceremonial title. Indeed some sources say Chernenko could con­tinue to hold this job while stepping down as effective leader," the news­paper said. 

It said any such decision would be made at a meetingofthe Communist Party Central Committee next month. 
A senior Western diplomat in Moscow told AP on Friday that So­viet officials have acknowledged Chernenko has been ailing during the past four weeks. 
The diplomat said he had no firm information about the exact nature of his illness. However, Chernenko is widely thought to be suffering from emphysema. According to The Sunday Times, Chernenko's health has deteriorated sharply in the past week. The newspaper said Chernenko's doctors are looking after him in the intensive care unit of a private Kremlin hospital, and that "his respiratory illness, including emphysema, has now been compl­icated by cardiac deficiencies." 
"Observers reckon his illness is now irreversible and it is thought that this view has been firmly ex­pressed by the doctor in charge of the president, believed to be an out­standing Czechoslovak specialist," The Sunday Times said. Despite prolonged illnesses, Chernenko's two predecessors, Yuri Andropov and Leonid Brezhnev, died in office. Rumors of their impending resigna­tions also circulated in Moscow during the last months oftheir lives. 
Chernenko succeeded Andropov as Communist Party general secre­tary on Feb. 13. 1984. 

Pope condemns abortion, divorce in visit to South American cities 
The Observer Monday,January 28, 1985-page 2 

In Brief 

Keenan Revue ticket distribution wm 
take place tomorrow in the following locations: Saint Mary's ()'Laughlin Auditorium box office at 4:00 and the Chautauqua ball­room at Notre Dame at 4:30. There is a two-ticket maximum per student. -The Obseroer 
The first airdrops of food to famine victims in a remote area of Ethiopia were rated by a U.N. official yesterday as an "extraordinarily good performance." Kurt Jansson, U.N. assistant secretary-general for emergency operations, said British and West German aircraft dropped pallets ofgrain and otherfood. "It is expen­sive but feasible to reach people where there are no roads," he said. Relid officials say many Ethiopians suffering the effects of drought are not bdng reached by other reliefefforts, partly because ofrough terrain. -AP 
Former streetgang members in Chicago will 
staff a 24-hour hotline to help other youths who want to escape the violent, drug-ridden lifestyle of the city's gangs, say spokesmen for a newly formed youth organization. "A Way Out," a program to help gang members begin a new way oflife, was started by more than 100 former gang members who are calling for an end to gang-related violence, said Tony Brown, 19. "I have to know more than a hundred people that got killed; I've been to at least I00 funerals," Brown said Saturday. "Let people know the killing has to stop." -AP 
A group in Tampa, Fla. that contends the English language is losing ground in Florida is launching a campaign for a state constitutional amendment that would reduce the use of Spanish in official dealings with the state government. U.S. English, which claims 70,000 members, is opening its drive today to have the amendment placed on the 1986 ballot. The measure would elimi­nate Spanish on driver's and occupational tests and to cut back on bilingual requirements in government activities. According to the 1980 census, 3 percent of Florida's population could not speak En­glish well or at all and 12.4 percent spoke another language at home. 
AP 
Of Interest 

Shelterfor the h001eless sign-ups for February 
and March will be tonight. The sign-ups will be held on the first floor of Lafortune by the Ombudsmen desk from 6 until 8. Teams offour consisting of two men and two women are needed for each night. · 
The Obsen/er 

Hit the SlopeS with the Student Activities Board. There will be an informational meeting for ski trip to Winter Park, Colo., tonight at 6:30 in Lafortune's Little Theater. The cost for the trip will be S.l12, which will include lodging and a four day lift ticket. A bus will be chartered to provide transportation if interest is sufficient. · 
The Obsen1er 
Weather 

Partly sunny today with possible flurries and a high of 20. Clear and very cold tonight with a low of 5-l0 above zero. -AP 

ND/SMC have more at stake than a free MTV concert 
The Observer 
lbe Ob~rver (liS~ S99 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home foothill! ~aturdays, except durin!( c:xam and vat:ation period!-.. The Observer is publishc:d by thc: student' of tht· University of Notre Damc: and Saint 
Mary's Colkge. ~uhscriptions may ht· purchased lt>r HOper year ( S20 per se· mestt·r) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dam..,, Indiana 46SS6. 
lbe Ob~rver is a mc:mht·r of The Associated Press. All reproduction ri~hts arc.-ft"!".l'l"\'ed. 

Pr(Jduction Consultant .................... Stew: Design Editor ............................... Troy Illig /Jesif<n A.<Sistant ................. Andi Schnuck Layout Staff...•.................. Mark Skolnicki, J'-'ann" l.amhk..,, ~usan O'Dell Typesetters ............... <.athyann Rc:ynolds. Vic Guarino, Mary Elll'n Harrin~ton . News Editor.........•................ John Menndl Copy l:"ditor.•........................... Jane: Kravcik .\ports Copy Editor ............. Mart· Ramirez Vtewpoi111 Lay()U/............... Kevin Beckt:'r 
Fet1tures Copy Editor.............. Sam Moorc: Features Layout ......... ................ Andy Saal N/J U<1y Editor .......................... Katy Doyle: Ad Design ...•................. Suzann" La Croix, 
Kevin Murphy Pbotogr<~pbf!r...................... l.ev Chapdsky 
She was a student not unlike other Saint Mary's stu­dents in the mid-1940s. Her talent on the piano allowed her to work offone third of her tuition costs by playing for recitals. When she graduated from Saint Mary's in 1946 as a history major, the College sent her to Colum­bia University in New York to earn her master's degree under the condition of returning to her alma mater to teach history for a year. Following this she married and settled into her career of motherhood still filled with dreams, ambitions and unrealized goals. And she was my mother. 
All her plans abruptly came to a halt when, in 1961, she was diagnosed as having Multiple Sclerosis. MS is a prgressive disease of the central nervous system in which the simple everyday tasks can no longer be taken for granted. Its symtoms can run the complete gamut from slight blurring ofvision to complete paralysis. 
For college women of the career-oriented '80s postponing marriage or choosing not to get married is the difference between the 1940s and now. But besides that the future promises an exciting and new life after ~~ college for both men and women today as always. No matter what plans students make today, if they are honest with themselves they will admit that they, like the Saint Mary's '46 graduate, do not plan on contracting a debilitating disease. 
My mother did not know that she was a prime can­didate: young (between 20 and 40 years), female (though the chances for wo­men contracting MS is only slightly higher than men), and from a cooler part of the country (the midwest). A large percentage of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students fit these criteria though none suspect they will fall victim to this mysterious disease. 
There is no cure, yet, for MS. The disease attacks and destroys the protective coating around the nerve fibers of the brain and spinal cord. This results in interrupted and distorted nerve impulses to the brain. which translates into loss of muscle control. It goes through periods ofexacerbations when the disease is active, and symptom-free periods of remission. In my mother's case MS was active much ofthe time, but for each victim MS acts differently. 
A quarter ofa million Americans have MS and nearly 200 new cases diagnosed a week. Today there is one Notre Dame and one Saint Mary's known case of MS. It can and does strike students and adults with promising careers inspite of every noble, ambitious goal students 

Anne Monastyrski 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Because Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are a concentration of prime candidates and none suspects suspect he or she will get MS, students should be anx­ious to help in the fight to discover the still unknown cause ofthe disease and the cure. lbe National Multiple Sclerosis Society provides the funds for research, pa· tient services, public education and professional educa­tion. Student government in conjunction with student activities is organizing the MTV sponsored MS benefit and the proceeds will be donated to NMSS. 
Plans for the fundraiser were announced in Decem­ber 1984 which involves a contest among 16 Midwes· tern colleges to raise the largest amount of money. The grand prize is a free MlV sponsored concert by one of the top five rock groups as determined by MTV. The concert would be scheduled for the Saturday of An Tostal, April 27. The concert would be re­broadcast on national TV. 
With the spirit of compe­tition alive and well at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, the three-week contest should be cake-walk (even though we are one of the smallest 
schools involved) especially considering some of the fundraising events planned. 
The drive begins with the Feb. 9 Kick-Off Video Dance which will feature quarter beers for those who are 21 years or older, though everyone is invited. Tick­ets go on sale Wednesday at the dining halls and ticket bearers at the dance get a free chance to win an all­expense paid trip to Florida for Spring Break. 
Tickets will be sold for a free-throw contest during the half of the Syracuse game. The winner out of 10 contestants who gets the most out of 10 free-throws wins tickets for the N.C.A.A. tournement. 
Only a couple of the several events planned are men­tioned here but the beauty ofthe fundraiser is that it is a three-week answer to the continuing struggle of ND/SMC students to improve social life.

set for themselves. 

,.........R~·~-~~·;·~..H·~·i·~...~ 

Styling 
531 N. Michigan St., 
lt..~.~.?..~.~..~.~.~.~~~.~?.......~ 
r..,._,._,._,._,._,._,._,._,._,.....,.._,._,._,.....,.._,._,../_,.......1 
~Sign Up For: § WEDNESDAY § LUNCH FAST  ~ ~ ~  
~  §  

: Are you a Junior? : • Are you pIanning to apply • • to Health Professional Schools?? • 
• 
Attend a meeting to discuss the preliminary application 

• 
procedures for the 1985-86 year. Also, there will be discus­• sion of the AMCAS and AADSAS application, changes in • 

• 
the 1985 MCAT testing procedures, timing for application 

• 
process, appraisals, schools, statistics, and auto­: biographies. 


WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30,1985 127 Nieuwland Science Hall 7:00p.m. 
• 
• Please make every effort to attendll •
• 

NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS. 
ROOMATES NEEDED! 
~ OnCampus ~ 8 give forms § 
R to dorm rep 8 Boys and Girls ~ OffCampus 8 § sign up at ~ ~ c.s.c. § 
Call office 3-6 DAILY
s ~ 
deadline: § 234-6647 Tuesday,Jan.29 ~ 
•
::c-'"./J"'..r..r....-~~J"..rJ.Xr..r...&
l •••••••••••••••••••••••• 
SMC parents' weekend payment due by Feb. 6 

The Observer 


Monday, January 28, 1985-page 3 

University of Michigan students Tim Grimm and Mary Jeffries act in the comedy A-Resounding Tinkle. The play was one of two one-act comedies 
Reagan prepares to slash deficit 
Associated Press schedule and will dine with fresh­Weinberger has agreed to trim $8.7 
men members and their spouses in billion from a proposed $286 billion 
WASHINGTON -President the evening. Wednesday and Pentagon budget, but many Senate Reagan, standing firm against major Thursday, he has sessions planned Republicans say this is not enough. cuts in military spending plans, is with · members of congressional stepping up the pace ofhis meetings committees, White House spokes­Senate Majority Leader Robert with lawmakers one week before he man Larry Speakes said. Dole, R-Kan., said last week submits a budget aimed at slashing Speakes declined to name the Weinberger's unwillingness to com­the federal deficit by SSO billion. committees, saying the schedule promise was jeopardizing efforts to 
Reagan will kick off a busy might change, but he said, "Mostly come up with significant deficit schedule by conferring today with he is meeting with money commit­reductions. Dole said many Senate Republican members of the tax­tees to talk about the budget." Republicans felt it would be almost writing Senate Finance and House Reagan's budget is scheduled for impossible to win support for freez­Ways and Means committees and submission to Congress on Feb. 4 ing such domestic programs as then with members ofthe House Re­and is expected to contain a deficit Medicare, Medicaid and Social Se­publican whip organization. of about $180 billion after $50 bil­curity so long as Weinberger chose 
Tomorrow, he has private lion in spending cuts. to "sit out" the budget trimming meetings with members on his Secretary of Defense Caspar negotiations. 
Subway holdups drop since Goetz incident 
Associated Press stemmingfrom the shootings, which December, the records show a 4 
left one ofthe youths paralyzed. The percent increase in subway rob­
NEWYORK-The number ofsub­youths reportedly confronted Goetz beries over the same period in 1983, way holdups dropped sharply after on a subway train and asked for SS. Meehan said. Bernhard Goetz allegedly shot four About 145 robberies occurred in youths Dec. 22, but officials disagree the subways in each of the two 
,

But in the month following the over whether the events were weeks before the incident, police shooting, robberies down 8 
,
were 

related. records show, but only 83 occurred percent compared with a year ear­Goetz was indicted Friday on in the week following the shooting. lier. Felonies overall dropped less charges ofillegal weapon possession For the first three weeks of than 0.5 percent. 
~ , , 
,1 
,
,
,
,
, 
l 
~ 


By LUCY KAUFMAN 
News Staff 
As the deadline for having money in for Saint Mary's Sophomore Par­ents' Weekend draws closer, the list of planned activities and attractions grows longer, 
Sophomore Parents' Weekend at Saint Mary's is March 1-3. Total cost for the weekend is $70 and is due at the Student Activities Office on Feb. 
6. This covers the cost of the Saint Mary's sophomore and her parents. According to Maureen Erny, student chairwoman of the event, about 60 families have signed up so far. 
After registration on Friday after­noon, there will be a sophomore class talent show where students will put on a variety ofacts. 
From 9 until 2 on Saturday mor­
• 

ning, there will be a sports festival in Angela Athletic Facility for parents and daughters. Students will have the opportunity to challenge their parents to a game of racquetball or tennis, or do aerobics with them. 
There will also be an art show Sat­urday morning, a new feature added to the traditional weekend. Sopho­more art works will be displayed and sophomore members of the choir will perform. Any sophomore inter­ested in donating artwork for the show should contact Erny. 
After a welcome from Saint Mary's President John Duggan on Saturday night, students and their parents will enjoy a dinner and dance at the Cen­tury Center in South Bend. 
The weekend will conclude on Sunday morning with a brunch at the Saint Mary's dining hall. 
CARNIVAL SALE 

Sweaters and accessories 25"-40" off earrings, bracelets & resortwear 25" off 
Mon.-Sat. 10-6 step into the Richness ofthe Andes at: 
Friday J0-9 Orchid Lane 100 Center 
Sunday 12-5 Mishawaka I 
ALPHA EPSILON DELTA 
Membership Drive 
The Notre Dame chapter of AED, the Pre-Med Honor Society is starting its membership drive for 1985-86. All students interested in a medical career are invited to sign up outside the Pre-Prof. office, 2nd floor Nieuwland Science Hall, this week, January 28 thru February 1. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
will be in the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn on January 29 starting at 7 pm to discuss career opportunities at Tl and 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Submit applications to Anne by February 7, 1985 at 
the SMC Observer office. For more information, call 
239-5303. 
e Observer experience necessary_ 
OJbtICniglyts nftlyt C!tastlt 
Men's Hair Styling at its finest ... minutes from campus ! 

s OOHAIRCUTS 
~ 
Haiccut, shampoo, 

272-0312 
& blowdry

277-1619 
VII

54533 Terrace lane 
$8.50

(~t. Rd. 23) 
ACfO!iS from Martin's (hair must be shampooed day ofcut) 
We are only minutes from campus 1 
~i~~~_()__i_It___t_________________
M_on_d-ay,_Ja_nu-ary_z_s,_I98-5--p-ag-e4 

Armageddon pie makes mankind's dessert menu 
Two weeks ago, I traveled to Los Angeles  
for a job interview. After checking into the  
local Marriott I decided to dress up and dine  
in the hotel's posh restaurant. Alone, I was  
offered the choice of dining by myself or of  
dining with the hotel manager at the cap­ 
tain's table, at which complementary wine  
would be sen1ed.  
David G. Grote  
speaking out of turn  
Feeling somewhat adventurous, anxious  
for company, and thirsty, I joined the hotel  
manager, a Pakistani man with a pleasant  
eastern accent named Naem Mazir. Seated  
wtth him was a well-traveled RCA business  
executive named james Denton. After the  
normal introductions and small talk thefol­ 
lowing discussion on man's destiny ensued.  
Denton: Mr. Mazir. my friend, I find myself  
nearing the end ofa long career in business. I  
have seen much ofthe world. I have seen vio­ 
lence and moral decay. I see the threat of nu­ 
clear destruction billowing dark over the  
world and ask myself is there something I can  
do, something that will make a difference in  
the future ofour world.  
Mazir: Well I do not know-maybe not.  
Denton: Young man, this gentleman here is  
from Pakistan. He was a young man when  
Pakistan was partitioned from India. He has  
seen the violence and hatred.  
Mazir: When I was a boy, there was much vio­ 
lence in India between Moslem's and Hindu's.  
r  When Pakistan was created I traveled by train  
r  with my family, and with other Moslems to  
r r r ~  Pakistan. Everyone on the train feared for their lives. There had been reports that Mos­lems were being slaughtered at train stations  
along many of the routes.·  
At each station we waited, hearts beating  
fast, praying for the train to continue, praying  
r  for our lives to be spared. Our train was the  
r  last to make it to Pakistan. All the people on  
r  the trains behind us were killed. In all, some  
r  two to three million Moslems were mas­ 
r  sacred.  
Denton: The Moslems and Hindus could not  
r r r  live in peace. For the world to survive we must all be able to live together -but that is not our world. Senseless killing cominues. Mazir: Yes, there is much hatred in the world,  
r  too many people unwilling to try.  
r  Denton: Well, I have no choice but to agree  
r  with you my friend.  
r  
r  Me: I have been listening to you two  
gentleman for some time now. And I realize  
that both of you have had experiences that I  

cannot even imagine. But I refuse to believe that people wiii choose to destroy the world. The Russian people want peace just as much as the American people. Denton: Have you ever been to Russia? Me: Well, uh. Denton: Have you ever been to Russia? Me: No, I have not been there. Denton: I've been there. In fact I've been there several times, and, young man, I know that the Russian people will believe whatever their government wants them to believe. It is a shame. But it's true and there is nothing we can do to change that. Me: Fine, but I don't think that man's future is hopeless. Denton: Alright, what do you think will change things. What do you see that will save our world. Me: Well, my hope is rooted in my interpreta­tion ofChrist's message. Mazir: How do you interpret his message? Me: I think that Christ saw man's potential for cruelty and man's potential for self destruc­tion. He came to transform the standards of society. He showed us that the peace thought only to accompany death could come from within ourselves. That the kingdom of God was not a place for dead people. The kingdom of God is the understanding of the power of love and unselfishness and the advancement of that understanding is worth sacrificing for. For Christ, the salvation of man was worth dying for. Denton: But look at the world, my young man. Is that advancement taking place? There are wars today reflecting the traditions ofcen­turies of hatred. Who will bring about this change? Have you done anything. Have I done anything. No. Ifour world remains the same it will eventually explode. Me: Maybe that is the problem. Maybe if people like you and I tried to change things something would be accomplished. Maybe we are all sitting idly in resturants waiting for 

our Armageddon pie. But I know admitting defeat can only further the probability of our destruction. Denton: If you feel that way, that's great. I wish I agreed with you but I'm afraid I can't. I don't think we can make a difference. Mankind finally has the tools for its own destruction and is standing at the edge, ready to jump. 
Soon we were joined by anotherguest and the normal introductions and small talk needed restating. As the conversation shifted to less serious topics l~ra
d to believe my 

words, I prayed that t  wer  wrong and I  
prayed for the strength  to  ange what I  
could.  

David G. Grote is the Viewpoint editor at The Observerand is a senior electrical engi­neering majoratNotre Dame. 


~~M~~t ~~~ltH A~~~ 
N~N~~ NOIIO Wt~R \N~~GURAL JA~m M~~t 
Of [NDANGtRfD S~fGltv 
-NEWS lrEM 
/1 


TI1E BoYS IN 'DEf€;»S'E SW:L.eSSL.Y ms2/N~ 1'0 SA.VE. i11E. A/v'E!21CAN TAXPt>.~'f<S SIX BIU...ION ruu,~s;. 
Examining ourselves in light of clinic bombings 
Last October, during the religion in politics furor, I wrote an article titled "Drav..·ing the Abortion-Holocaust Analogy.· What prompted me to write the artkle wa~ the logi· cal correlation that I saw between what some abortion opponents on campu' wne saying and the then solitary incident of an abortion clinic bombing. What these opponents were saying was that abortion was analogous to the Holocaust. In my article, I rigorously applied this Holocaust analogy to abortion, implying that ifthe ananlogy did fit, then just as the Ger-
Vernon Marchal 
afterwords 
_ man people were responsible for what hap­pened to the Jews, so too are all of us responsible for what is happening to unborn children in this country. The connection be­tween this analogy and the abortion clinic bombing was this: Had we been German citizens during World War II, most of us would have felt no compunction in either sup­porting or participating in a bombing attack on a Nazi concentration camp -indeed, we probably would have felt it a moral obligation. 
My feeling was that to equate abortion with the Holocaust was to unavoidably imply that the abortion clinic bombing was not only morally defensible, but almost morally neces­sary. Given the seriousness ofthis implication, the aim of my article was to question the ap­propriateness of the the abortion-Holocaust analogy. 
Of course, since I wrote that article, chere has been many more more abortion clinic bombings. Public reaction to these bombings by abortion opponents has, I think, raised some important questions about the nature of abortion. · 
In recent weeks, it has been interesting to 
slaughter of human life? To me, that im­
perative seems absurd. Indeed, if I believed 
for one minute that abortion was like the 
Holocaust, I would probably be heaving a 
Molotov cocktail through a window at the 
South Bend Women·~ Pavilion, right now. But 
I do not equate abortion with the Holocaust. 
And, in as much as the Women's Pavilion is 
still standing, it seems that those who equated 
abortion with the Holocaust do not really 
equate the two either. 
But if abortion is not the wholesale murder 

that the Holocaust was, what kind of murder is 
it? Is it some different kind? Clearly, even 
those of us most opposed to abortion seem 
compelled to stand by and watch it happen. 
Or is abortion murder at all? Is it, in fact, a very 
complex, confusing, and painful issue that has 
so far defied all the unthinking and inflam­
mitory attempts to oversimplify it? Or is it the 
sad truth that we who are opposed to abortion 
are really only moral equivocators, unable to 
find the courage in our hearts to defend inno­
cent, helpless human life. 
These, it seems to me, are some of the cru­cia! questions raised by the issue of abortion. But, suprisingly. these are precisely the kinds of questions not being raised by people on either side of the issue. Any intelligent and, in the end, fruitful dicussion of abortion must start with these questions and with an honest exploration ofone's own position. 
What does it mean to equate abortion with the Holocaust or, as a recent "Notre Dame Re· ligious Bulletin" did, to call it a "social atrocity" for which we all are responsible? What are the implications of these positions? Can one defend all of them? And if not, why not? One possibility may be that deep down people do not find their positions tenable, in which case it would seem logical to find a more suitable ones. Another possibility may be that their positions are correct, but that a lack of conviction prevents them from acting 
note the response of the vast majority of •on the dictates ofthose positions. The point is 
leading abortion opponents to clinic born­bings: they have uniformly come out against them. This response is difficult for me to un­derstand. Without intending to be sarcastic, I cannot see how anyone believing abortion to be murder can come out against attacks on abortion clinics. And I especially cannot see how anyone who believes -really believes ­that abortion is like the Holocaust can denounce abortion clinic bombings. 
What is the moral imperative for such a denunciation? Is it that no one should come to any harm while engaged in the wholesale that unless one really examines his own posi­tion, he will not know. 
The journalist and author Walter Uppman once said that "Many a time I have wanted to stop talking and find out what I really believe." It seems to me that the recent abortion clinic bombings have provided us with an oppor­tinity to take a good, hard look at what we really believe. 
Vernon Marchal is a seniorin the Program ofLiberal Studies at Notre Dame and is a reg­ular Viewpoint columnist. 
If you have an opinion, why not share it? 
If you would /Ike to respond to something you've read In The Observer, wby not write a letter to tbe editor. Letters sbould be well· written, typed, no more tban Z50 words in lengtb and must bear tbe signature of tbe au­tbor. Letters wbicb are notsigned by tbe autbor will notbepublished. 
Letters to tbe editor can be mailed to The Observer, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or delivered to either our Notre Dame office In LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office in Haggar College Center. 
The Observer reserves tbe rlgbt to edit all material submitted to tbe VIewpoint depart­ment/orpublication. 

"ielYP.~O~i~n~t M_o_nd_a_y,_J_an_u_~ z_s_,I_9_s_s_-_Pa_g_e_s 
Notre Dame solicits with false advertising 
P.O.BoxQ 
I am disturbed by a letter Father Hesburgh sent to my parents while I was home for the recent Christmas break. The letter was Notre Dame's annual appeal for funds. After long 
Charles Boudreaux 
only solitaire 
passages about past holiday seasons and Notre 
Dame's sense of tradition, the letter eventu­
ally got around to its soft-pedalled request for 
cash. 
The letter bothers me for several reasons. In 
the first place, I find it audacious that Notre 
Dame would request any more money than 
the ten thousand dollars a year that my and 
other parents are already paying this institu­
tion. If parents are unable or have chosen not 
to put their children through college, they 
would also almost surely be opposed to donat­.ing money for that college's "improvement." 
Let us suppose, however, that some stu­
dents' parents are able to make some sort of 
contribution to Notre Dame. Where does this 
money go? Whom is it supposed to aid? How is 
it reasonable to donate money to a university 
with a so-so financial aid program and no aca­
demic scholarships? Are the University's 
priorities in its edifices or in its students and 
faculty? 
The letter claims that the University's edu­
cational vision is one in which "values lend 
meaning to facts." In my mind, the University 
of Notre Dame understands the facts offinan­
cial solidity: a university that has a large en· 
dowment is a university that stays in business. 
One would think that Notre Dame would 
begin to become aware of the values that ac­
company this fact; instead ofusing the interest 
drawn from its investments for the better· 
ment of Notre Dame, however, the University 
continues to monomaniacally reinvest the in­
terest. Like Ahab in "Moby Dick," there should 
be a time at which one remembers the real 
purpose for which one is doing something, 
whether it be collecting whale oil or dona­
tions. 
The most hypocritical element of the letter 
my parents received is the idea found in the 
following three crucial sentences: "We are 
not preservers only, but co-creators also;" 

"We are active agents in Notre Dame's des­
tiny;" and "The future of Notre Dame, like its 
past, is not something that unfolds of its own; 
it is something that we deliberately shape." 
Who is this mythical "we"? Certainly not your 
and my parents. When was the last time that 
your parents have been polled before Notre 
Dame declares policy? When was the last time 
that parents -or students or faculty, for that 
matter -have brought about a major policy 
change? 
What Father Hesburgh is asking for is not "co-creation"; rather, he asks for the financial preservation ofa status quo which may or may not be meeting the wants and needs ofits stu­dents, their parents, and the University's own faculty and staff. Do parents want to "co­create" a university that refuses to allow other religious groups to meet on campus, though preaching social justice and liberal arts? Do they wish to be "active agents" in a university that curtails a social environment "traditionally" floating on alcohol without first providing sufficient non-alcoholic social space on campus? I am not so sure. 
I believe that the University can be ac­curately represented as a pseudo-corporation, a business in which the raw materials (students) are run through the machinery of the faculty and the campus to produce the final product: a forty-thousand-dollar sheepskin glossed over with social service and moral or ethical platitudes. Until this Univer· sity allows parents and students to really "co­create" (a student on the Board of Trustees, for example), I believe that it has no right to pass itself off as a mutual proposition. In addi­tion to the standard piecework (price-per­student) fee, parents were offered an option to buy non-refundable stock in a corporation in which they have no voice. I was told in high school that one does not solve problems by throwing money at them. Until parents can co-create instead of merely holding up the status quo, I believe that it is wrong for the University to solicit money in the guise of a concept so majestic as "co-creation" or "active agency." The Federal Trade Commis­sion would label this sort ofsolicitation "false advertising" -and so do I. 
Charles Boudreaux is a junior in the Pro­gram ofLiberal Studies atNotre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
The difficult truth of New York City life 
DearEditor: 
As I read Mark Potter's article on the 
New York City public's reaction to the 
now-infamous "subway vigillante," I felt 
sparks ofanger on behalfofthe civilian vic­
tims who are the target ofcriminal actions. 
Although I have not experienced a major 
attack such as a mugging or rape (thank 
God), I do consider myself a victim just 
being a female resident of New York City. 
When others find out I'm a New Yorker, 
usually the first question is, "Isn't it danger­
ous to live there ?" My experiences tells me 
it is. New York crime affects the way I live 
my life. There are do's and don'ts to avoid 
problems. Don't walk alone on dark 
streets. Do look over your shoulder. Don't 
ride in an empty subway car ... particularly 
if you are a woman. It is humiliating and 
scary to be whistled at, talked suggestively 
to, followed, or confronted. Once a young 
man asked me for money. That happens to 
many people. But even when I told him no 
and walked into a store, he was waiting 
everytime I emerged. I have had bad expe­
riences elsewhere as well, but my 
hometown tops the list. It's a difficult truth, 
but it's a part oflife. 
Paula Miranda LewisHall 
Student Saver needs our continued support 
DearEditor: 
Now that the Notre Dame Student Saver is a reality, the real campaign begins. So far, support of the store has been better than anticipated, a fact which can only be attrib­uted to the students themselves. The hoopla and newspaper articles though will soon end and the students must realize that it is up to them to keep the store running. Student Activity fee money has paid for every item therefore each of us has a stake in making it a success. Permission was fi­nally given because Father Tyson could not deny the students something which they apparently wanted dearly. We need to show the administration and others that we meant what we said. 
Prices in the Hammes Bookstore have dropped since the project was undertaken and we believe that the opening of thegeneral store influenced that decision. In addition, the Student Activities Board would like to recognize the extraordinary help it has gotten from Jim Goshort, the owner of Broadmoor Pharmacy, without whose help we would probably still have bare shelves. Most of all, the students deserve to be congratulated on their response to our hard work. 
Kevin McGovern Manager, StudentActivities Board 

Conduct at basketball game is reprehensible 
DearEditor: 
Unfortunately I watched the Notre Dame-DePaul basketball game. The rude­ness ofthe students apalled me. 
I could not believe what I was hearing when the DePaul players were introduced and the student body "booed" them. Is this the actions ofladies and gentlemen? I think not. 
The conduct of the students throughout the game was reprehensible. 
Notre Dame would be well served if they taught sportsmanship and manners to their students. They owe the DePaul team an apology. 
Sister Maurita, O.P. 

Ann Sullivan's article misses vital facts 
DearEditor: 
Ann Sullivan's article about Notre Dame students who are in the South Bend Sym­phony angered one of my friends. Her name is Kathy Nee, a junior finance and psychology major. She has been playing the viola in the symphony longer than any of the other students (since she was a senior in high school), yet she was not mentioned in the article. Where did Ann get her information? 
ChristopherShine GraceHall 

Carazo's history of treachery in Costa Rica 
It is sad to read that Father Malloy and Pro­fessor James Taylor had to travel so many miles to Costa Rica to attend a seminar sponsored by the so-called "University of Peace" during the last break. Almost any Costa Rican could have phoned them and told them what the "University of Peace" really is -the new toy of the former president, Rodrigo Carazo, the biggest liar and betrayer of Costa 
Frank Lopez guest column 
Rica since the country's Revolution of 1948. Carazo sold his name and the name of his country to the Soviets and the Cubans during the Sandinista Revolution. While denying any participation in the revolution, he permitted and supported Sandinista military camps in northern Costa Rica, where Sandinistas were trained by Cuban military personnel. This vio­lated the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs ofa foreign country. 
Furthermore, always smiling like his comrade Jimmy Carter, Carazo directed the contraband ofarms from the Soviet Union and Cuba destined to supply the Sandinistas. In this cowardly action, many arms ended up in the hands of the few Costa Rican communists who still want to destabilize the country. And what a coincidence that more than 90 percent ofthe terrorists' acts perpetrated in Costa Rica since have involved the use ofthese arms. This heroic contraband by the former president netted him, together with his sons and his minister of defense, more than $30 million. But that is not all. During his frequent trips to Cuba he concocted a plan with Castro to make Costa Rica a bridge between La Habana and the United States, through which the poor, desperate Cubans seeking liberty had to pass before entering the United States. This was not a Samaritan action by Carazo to provide freedom for thousands of Cubans trying to escape Castro's tyranny. To Carazo, every­thing has a price. And the price, in this case, was 52000 per Cuban per visa for entry into Costa Rica. The place ofexpedition ofthe visa was not the immigration offices, but the law office ofCarazo's sons. 

Toward the end of his administration, Carazo excelled in performing other corrupt acts. First. he started selling Costa Rican pas­sports to Taiwanese citizens wanting to reside in Costa Rica. And, believe me, he did not do this to eat for free in the Chinese restaurants run by these hard-working people. The price ofone passport was 55000. 
Second, after the Shah of Iran was over­thrown, Carazo gave resident status to many Iranians who started the trafficking ofcocaine in Costa Rica in large amounts, converting my country into another cocaine capital. Carazo did not do this so that his sons could get high for free. A substantial amount of money was paid by the Iranians to Carazo to operate freely in Costa Rica. 
Needless to ;;ay, this corruption created scandals for which Costa Rica was ridiculed and which surfaced on the front pages ofmany international newspapers. I do not mention the resulting economic impact on the country because it may make some turn over in their graves. 
How can a man extolling such a curriculum during his presidential term be president of the "University of Peace?" And how can a top Notre Dame administrator and a Notre Dame professor lower themselves to the point ofat­tending a semimar by this so-called "University of Peace?" The fact is that Carazo presides over the "University of Peace" the way he wants, and this should be ofgreat con­cern. Ifnothing is done, the land donated by a Costa Rican citizen will soon become the site 
of a private country club of the Soviet and 
Nicaraguan diplomats in Costa Rica, who will 
undoubtedly have the company ofCarazo, his 
sons and distinguished members of the 
(agonizing) communist party (only the 
oligarchy of the party of course) whenever 
the boss, Fidel Castro, decides to fly to Costa 
Rica rather than to Nicaragua for the 
weekend. 
When Professor Taylor summed up the seminar by giving Carazo and the "University ofPeace" position on how to solve the Central American problem by saying, "stop United States aid," he should have been more con­crete and expressed the true objective of Carazo and his "University of Peace." The ob­jective is to substitute Soviet aid for United States aid. However, Central America has no price for which Carazo can strike another cor­rupt deal. And since President Reagan will be in office four more years, Carazo, his univer­sity and all those fooled into attending Carazo's seminars, will have their objective of establishing another Cuba in Central Ameerica destroyed, at least for four more years. 
Frank Lopez is a Costa Rican citizen and a junior economics major atNotre Dame. 
~The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edttor·m·Chtel. . .. Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . . .... Dave Taiclet Managmg Editor . . .... Mark Worscheh Controller . . .Dave Stephenitch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Edttor . . ... Sarah Hamilton Advertismg Manager. . Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor . Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . ... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Samt Mary·s Editor .. . Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opmton Sports Edttor. . . Mtchael Sulltvan Production Manager. . . Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Vtewpomt Editor . .... Dave Grote Project Manager . . Amy Stephan present the views ot their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Edttor . Mary Healy community, and the free expresston of varying optnions on campus, through letters. Photo Ed1tor. . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 
.,
.,
,
,
, 
1 
,1 
1 
., 
1 1 1 
l 1 
Accent 

The hits and misses of 1984 
Vic Sciulli 
features staffwriter 
Records 

Best albums 
1. Reckoning 
R.E.M. 
Last year R.E.M.'sMunnur was one of the most critically praised LPs of the year. The success wasn't a fluke; Reckoning is one of the best LPs released by an American band In years. The band, hailing from

r 
r Athens, Georgia, forges another r progressive path while keeping r folkly roots. Bill Berry's muted r vocal delivery adds a compelling r sense of urgency to the music, from 
,r 
the reminiscent "Don't Go Back to 
Rockville" to the beautiful "So. 

r 
Central Rain.'' llte production Is

r 
beautifully unpolished; the rough

r 
r edges are in just the right spots. By r far the year's best. 
r 
2. Heartbeat City 
The Cars 
The Cars' creativity pendulum swung back toward center on this, their fifth album. The band strikes a ground somewhere between the excellent, symh-filledPanorama and the undirected pop onShake It l!p. On first listening it appears the band has retreated from its slightly avant garde pop sound. 
Producer Mutt Lange (of For­eigner and Def Leppard fame) took the band's sound and molded it to fit to AOR station formats; guitars fill places synths might have been. By no means, though, did the band abandon their electronic sound. In fact, all the drumming was programmed. 
"Ilte result is a balance in styles. Yet, there Is a nice balance to the songs: from the band's romp through the goofy "You Might 

~ 
Think" to the hypnotic electro­r ballad "Drive," Heartbeat City saw 
r 
the band walk a thin line between 

r 
adult contemporary and rock.

r 
r 3. Purple Rain
r 
Prince and the Revolution 

~ One of the most autobiographical l.Ps of the year, it served as the 
~ perfect vehicle for the movie. The band rips through the volatile "Let's Go Crazy" with style and ease but shows a smokier blues sound on the title track. His guitar performance is near brilliant in places and com­parisons to Hendrix are merited. This is Prince's strongest and most consistent performance. 
4. Born in the U.S.A. 
Bruce Springsteen and theE Street Band 
Except for the brilliant "Dancing in the Dark," Springsteen doesn't break any new ground in his first album in three years. No problem though; he just does what he's always done better than anyone else. No one comes close to Spring.-;teen in his conviction of describing the American dream and the broken promise for the un­employed. The band is as tight as ever, which goes to show that some things get better in time. The three­year wait was worth it. This is Springsteen's best. 
5. Learning to Crawl 
The Pretenders 
"Ibis album could have been a disastt"r story of the band's last two years. Fellow band members Pete 

Farndon and james Honeyman­Scott were lost in drug-related deaths after the release of Pretenders J/ and many wondered if Chrissie Hynde (now Chrissie Kerr after her recent marriage) could pick up the pieces. Hynde did that and more. "Back on the Chain Gang" is an emotional tribute to the departed band members; Hynde, refusing to give in, formed a new band. The success oflearning to Crawl (named in honor ofher new daughter who was learning to crawl around the time of the LP's release) is a tribute to Hynde's strength and fortitude. 
6. She's So Unusual 
Cyndi Lauper 
One of the most delightful debuts of the year. The former Blue Angel member covers the spectrum of pop sounds, from the bubbly "Girls Just Want To Have Fun" to the harder rocking "Money Changes Everything" and the ballad "Time After Time." MTV had a lot to do with her success, but her voice deserves credit too. And you have to admire her guts. 
7.1984 
VanHalen 
This band has been trying to tell audiences they were not just an­other L.A. heavy metal band, but it wasn't until this one that they made some oftheir critics believers. "Jump" was probably the most obvious representation of the new sound, but there was also the hyp­notic "I'll Wait." This was a pleasant surprise for everyone. 
8. Steeltown 
Big Country Big Country broke 
out like gangbusters last year with 
The Crossing, a tribute to their 
Celtic origins.Steeltown lacks the 
killer cut that made their first LP so 
popular, but holds its own with 
consistent performances through­
out. "Iltrough the darkness of the 
lyrics shines a ray ofhope. 
9.Golnsane 
Lindse:}' Buckingham 
Fleetwood Mac guitarist Lindsey Buckingham has made a solo career writing songs that are just the oppo­site of those of his band Fleetwood Mac; quirky, unpolished, sparsely produced gems.Through playing all the instruments on the album, Go Insane provides a catharsis for the little demons inside Buckingham. 
10. Big Bam Boom 
Hall& Oates 
"Dance On Your Knees," the LP's opening track explains the title perfectly: the duo's 12th LP is dominated with a heavier drum sound accompanying very danceable tracks. "Method of Modern Love" is a backtrack to the band's R&B roots but "Out of Touch" is much like "I Can't Go For That" ofa few years ago. Fans may be disappointed by the lack ofsongs like H20's "One on One" but the duo seems to have latched onto a major success writing danceable pop tunes and probably will con­tinue with it a little while longer. 
Best singles 
I. "So. Central Rain" 
R.E.M. 

One ofthe most compelling singles from Reckoning. The song epitomizes so much ofwhat is most striking about R.E.M. -Michael Stipe's unclear delivery, Bill Berry's precise drumming, and an excellent lead guitar by Peter Buck. You can't help but be moved by the sense of urgency in Stipe's plea ''I'm Sorry." Stunning. 
2. "The Boys ofSum­
mer" 
Don Henley 

There are few songs that I liked instantly and this was one. Henley draws up striking images in his wistful look at summer past. The guitar here is pretty too.Boys is as good as any ofthe Eagles' best. 
3. "Let's Go Crazy" 
Prince and the Revolution 
One ofthe most catchy singles of the year (try to sit still during this one-you're either dead or dying). Prince's guitar rips through this one. My favorite dance tune ofthe year. 
The bombs 
Steve Perry -Everything. 
Ollie .!:Jerry -Please wake me up when the breakdancing nightmare ends. 
Laura Branigan -Real singers like Donna Summer can belt out tunes getting manicures better than anything she's ever done. Worse than Chinese water torture. 
Twisted Sister and Motley Crue • Heavy metal needed another gimmick and transvestism was the answer. 
Madonna -What every young girl shouldn't aspire to. 
Nena -Someone should have told her Blondie clones aren't in anymore. 
Dennis DeYoung -Dennis, I think I hear your mother calling. 
Julio Iglesias & Willie Nelson ­Mama don't let your babies grow up to sing songs with aspiring Latin singers. 
TheJacksons-One family reunion I could have done without. 
4. "Drive" 
The Cars 
This song still sounds good to me, three million times later. Ric Ocasek made a great decision in letting Ben Orr handle the vocal chores on this one; Orr's smoother approach is what the song calls for. "Inc foray of"Drive" into adult contemporary radio was a first for the band· 
5. "Don'tGoBackTo Rockville" 
R.E.M. 
More magic from the band of the year; this one has a decidedly melancholic country sound to it. 
6. "Magic" 
The Cars 
Shades ofForeigner. The guitar licks here sound straight from an old Foreigner LP, thanks to producer Mutt Lange, but it pro­vides a striking contrast to some of the other songs on the LP. 
7. "Out ofTouch" 
Daryl Hall andjohn Oates 
These two guys have been churn­ing out hits like crazy the last five years andBig Bam Boom will add a few more to the list. The pounding drums and echoing background 
voices of"Out ofTouch" made the 
song accessible to dance clubs as 
well as radio. 
8. "Go Insane" 
Lindsey Buckingham 
More of the same from Lindsey ­syncopted guitars and tense vocals. A bit too cocky at times, Buckin­gham once again demonstrates his talents as a producer. 
9. "(Pride) In the Name ofLove" 
U2 
The Unforgettable Fire didn't live up to the future promise oflast year's War but there were a few gems here and this was one. Produced by Eno, "Pride" is flavored with the band's sound of old: Bono's razor-line vocal perfor­mance complimented by another sparkling guitar performance by The Edge. 
10. "Legs" 
ZZTop 
FromEliminator, the LP that wouldn't dic,Legs was just another song from the good ol' boys about the fun things in life: women, cars and women. 


-----------------------------~----------------------------~-------------------­
Monday,January 28, 1985-6-7 
rating the year's music 
Tim Adams 
features staffwriter 
Records 

"'"f"1he year in music 1984 saw the 
.l continuance ofmulti-platinum successes, a rise in the popularity of black music, more heavy metal, and a peak in the interaction between the movie industry and music­Standing above all competition was Prince, whosePurple Rain has been atop the album charts for half a year now. Michaeljackson and his brothers toured the country, net­ting tons ofbucks for charity, but still hurting some ofMichael's truest fans who couldn't afford the tickets, priced at $30 and up. Bruce Springsteen re-established himself as the most popular white per­former around with his most suc­cessful LP to date,Born in the U.SA. 
Best albums 
Springsteen 

The Boss made 1984's strongest and most consistent effort, anal­bum ofboth a patriotic and skepti­cal nature. Musically, the E Street Band is in top form, and so is Springsteen's writing. 
The Replacements 

The Replacements have in them­selves the ability to be a very popular band. They're funny, meaningful, sometimes loud, sometimes soft, and always in­spired. These guys are a joy to hear. 
3. Purple Rain 

Prince and theRevolution 
What can I say? This album is Prince's best. You can dance to it, you can rock to it, and you can even get down to it. I don't hate the synthesizer when it's used this well. 
4. New Sensations 
Lou Reed 

This veteran rocker really surpised me with this one. Avery upbeat, happy album that celebrates the joys ofeverything from red joysticks to motorcycles. 

The bombs 
Worst albums 
Chicago 17-Chicago Seven and the Ragged Tiger­
Duran Duran Two Stepsfrom the Move-Hanoi Rocks Victory-Tbejacksons Nuclear Furniture -jefferson Starship Shoutat the Devll-Motley Crue StreetTalk-Steve Perry Condition Critical-QuietRiot Love atFirstSting-TheScorpions In 3-D-"Weird"AI Yankovic 

5. Zen Arcade 
HuskerDu 
This double LP is a literal tour de force ofsonic hardcore.ZenArcade is both a political and personal album, and it's not always nice. "Turn on the News" will scare the hell out ofyou with its bleak look at society. 
6. Too Tough to Die 
TbeRamones 
A terrific statement ofpurpose, the Ramones' eighth studio effort welcomes new drummer Richie Ramone with a bang. They expand their repertoire with some political songs and two hardcore numbers sung very convolutedly by Dee Dee, but they do their usual stuff, too. 
7.Reckoning 
R.E.M. 
The most popular underground band in the country released a solid follow-up toMurmur. Good Ameri­can rock with a touch offolk and country. 
8. All Over the Place 
The Bangles 
These four Los Angeles women really rock with the best. A tough record, in a sense, but the group never compromises itself. Their sound is one from the past, yet it sounds great today. 
9. Double Nickels on 
the Dime 
The Minutemen 
Another double LP from the label that brought you Husker Du. These 45 songs cover all sorts of things, from tension to Michael jackson to the roar ofthe masses. A little some­thing for everyone. 
10.1984 
VanHalen 
Yes, I know Van Hal en is one of the most obnoxious groups around. But unlike, say, Motley Crue, their obnoxiousness is all in fun.I984 was a great party record, especially songs like "Panama" and "Hot for Teacher." 
Worst singles 
"Stay the Night"-Chicago "DesertMoon"-Dennis DeYoung "lbe Reflex"-Duran Duran "Wlld Boys"-Duran Duran "Runner"-Manfred Mann "Looks ThatKill"-Motley Crue "Almost Paradise"-Mike Reno andAnn Wilson "ModernDayDelilah"-VanStep­henson "Doctor! Doctor!"-Thompson Twins "All I Need"-jack Wagner 
Best singles 
!."Dancing in the Dark" 
BruceSpringsteen 
Definitely the single of the sum­mer, as far as I'm concerned. Very catchy and danceable. Bruce's singing is just great here. This song never lost a bit ofappeal since it was released, and that says some­thing. 

-
2. "EightMiles High" 
HuskerDu 
This song was not onZen Arcade, though it was a very good preview to that album. This song is an ex­tremely amped-up, raved-up hardcore version of the Byrd's classic tune. Ifyou can find it, turn it up! 
3. "Breakin'-There's No 
Stoppin' Us" 
Ollie & jerry 
The best song having to do with breakdancing ever released. Ollie & Jerry utilize electronic drums, synthesizers, and other percussion in a way that no one else has the brains to. This song was also a meaningful statement for all the breakers this past summer. 
4. "Born in the U.S.A." 
BruceSringsteen 
Though this serves better as an album cut than single, it still sounds great on the radio. A powerful, reverberating song about the plight ofa Vietnam vet and his return home. 
5. "Let's Go Crazy" 
Prince and the Revolution 
This is a great party song that means exactly what it says -go crazy. I can't recall how many people I saw reciting the monologue at the beginning, "Dearly beloved ..." 
6. "I Will Dare" 
The Replacements 
Though not yet a hit, this song deserves to be. it's bouncy, catchy, and extremely well-written. Listen to the lyrics, because they're pretty funny. Pete Buck ofR.E.M. guests and does a nice solo, too. 
7. "WhenDoves Cry" 
Prince 
I would be remiss ifI didn't in­clude the year's biggest single. Offbeat, downbeat, and haunting is how I would describe it. This song really beat the odds. 
8. "Pride (In the Name 
ofLove)" 
U2 
U2's tribute to Martin Luther King was the best song offof 1984's The Unforgettable Fire. Agreat guitar part drives this song that's pretty fun to sing along with. 
9. "White Lines (Don't
Do It)" 
Grandmaste1· Flash at/.d Melle Mel 
Melle Mel is an extremely crea­tive person, probably-the best in rap right now. This song is a rap against cocaine use, and it creates some 

-
effective imagery. It is very hooky 
and could function well without lyrics, too. Don't do it! 
10. "I Love You,
Suzanne" 
Lou Reed 
A driving bass drum and bass guitar part help make this one ofthe year's more fun dance songs. This song proves you don't need synth to create a beat. 

.. 


-
I ~ 
i• I 
-
Monday, january 28, 1985-page 8 
Irish started to rally. First Keys, who points in the second half where An­
Sports Briefs 
finished with a team-high 24 points, derson wa.~ very effective," said DiS­
Irish 

was fouled and hit a pair of free tanislao. "We were aware that Watts throws. Then, following a DePaul has been coming on game by game,
continuedfrom page 12 
five-second violation, Keys canned a and we always knew that Manuel
Cross-country skiing events are being 
beat ourselves," said DiStanislao. quick I 2-footer from the baseline to was a good player. With those two sponsored by NVA. 'Ibere will be an advanced skier clinic on 
"We weren't taking good care of the cut the gap to eight with I :06 players they've added a new dimen­'Ibursday, there will be "moonlighters" tomorrow and Feb. 8, on 
ball, and I don't mean that so much remaining. sion to their team. 'lbey used to be Saturday there will be a day tour, and on Feb. 9 there will be a day of 
in the sense of controlling the Following an Irish timeout, Gavin primarily a perimeter shooting races. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -The 
tempo, but more as far as taking was whistled for a blocking foul, but team, but now they're asserting 
Observer 

good shots at the appropriate time. Anderson missed the front end of a themselves inside more. Even Instead, we were shooting with one-and-one opportunity and Doug­though it appeared that we were people out ofposition. We sacrificed herty answered with a IS-foot evenly-matched with them, or even almost every possession during that jumper from the left side. Dougherty that the balance of talent was in our
NCAA basketball toumamentticketsfor 
period when the momentum swung quickly fouled MaryLou O'Brien on favor, we were still outplayed the Southeast Regional games to be played at the ACC on March 14 
by making poor decisions that the inbounds pass, and the Irish got inside." and 16 will go on sale soon. Season-ticket holders may purchase 
allowed an aggressive team to capi­another break as the DePaul forward IRISH ITEMS -Because of poor tickets beginning Friday. Students may purchase tickets with the 
talize." missed the front enct of the one-and­weather conditions on Friday after· general public beginning Feb. II. -1be Obseroer 
The game started out as a nip-and­one chance. Gavin drove the lane noon, the Irish were unable to make tuck affair, with the lead changing and hit a short jumper at the other the trip to Chicago until Saturday. hands six times over the first twelve end to pull Notre Dame within four, The Loyola game has been res­minutes before Notre Dame scored 66-62, with 34 seconds left to play, cheduled for Tuesday, Feb. 26..
A pool toumamentis now being organized. Anyone four unanswered baskets to take a but Anderson hit six straight free Dougherty broke the 900-pointwho is interested may sign up by Friday in the pool room in the 24-1 7 lead. Despite shooting just 36 throws in the final seconds to close plateau with six points yesterday.
basement of LaFortune.-The Obseroer 

percent from the field in the first the door on Notre Dame's com­The senior co-captain is now 96 half, the Irish were able to lead by as eback attempt. points away from becoming the many as nine points before settling The Blue Demons' big second half fourth player in the program's eight­on a five-point halftime edge. The was keyed by their control of the year history to reach the 1,000-point
Interhall volleyball captains will be meeting 
Blue Demons were even poorer boards, as well as by the hot shoot­mark. Earlier this season, teammates today in the football auditorium at the ACC. Women's team captains 
from the field in the first half, shoot­ing of Anderson. DePaul out­Schueth and Bates broke the 1 ,000­will meet at 4:30p.m. and the men's team captains will meet at; p.m. 
ing just 32 percent, but they stayed rebounded Notre Dame, 20-1 ;, in point barrier. 
-The Observer 

in the game by hitting 11-of-12 free the second half, as Lorelei Watts throws. grabbed I 1 of her 13 rebounds in The second half was an entirely the last 20 minutes and Manuel 
Women's

different story as DePaul got hot pulled down seven ofher 13. Ander­
The ND Women's Soccer Club will be 
from the field, hitting ;8 percent of son hit five ofsix shots from the field meeting tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. in the basement of Breen-Phillips 
its shots, but cooled off at the line and sank seven of eight free throws Hall. -Jbe Obsen)er 
Box Score 

and let Notre Dame get back in the in the second half to finish with a game in the final minute. team-high 24 points. Manuel added After Manuel hit a pair of free 16 points and O'Brien had 13 for 
throws with I: 14 remaining to give DePaul. 
On Page 10 

DePaul its biggest lead at 64-52, the "There were several critical 
The Ohsen•er Notre Damt· oftke. located on the: third lloor of l.ah>rtunc: Student Center. accc:pts classilkd advertising from<) a.m. until 1 p.m.. Monday through f-riday. The 0/Jsen•er Saint Mary's offkt·. locatc:d on tht· third lloor of Haggar Collegt· Center, accepts dassific:ds from 12:.~0 p.m until.~ p.m.. ,\1on­day though Friday. lkadlint· fl•r next·day dassilkds is .~ p.m. All classified' must ht· prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Char~:<· is I 0 cents per 11\'e charac·
Classifieds 
ters er dav. 
NOTICES EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. NEED TYPING, CALL DOLORES 277· 6045 PICK UP AND DELIVERY TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8"7  LOST: A Blue LEVI's Jean Jackel (Size 40) at Corby's on Friday Jan. 181h. II found Please call Mike at 1223. LOST Rhinestone necklace on Sal. night, the 19. PLEASE HELP !!!! $$$$REWARD$$$$ Call Cindy at 272­6084 FOUND: Set ol KEYS In D line of North Dining Halllaat -·Call3257 to Iden­tify. LOST: One Tl30 calculator with the name Kevm Camblin very sloppily scratched on it. I could ol sworn I had it Physics Lab so  FOR RENT Nice furnished homes lor next school year. 277-3604 _ $.88 A DAY COLOR TV RENTAL (1 MONTH MINIMUM)-19 INCH POR­TABLE-251NCH CONSOLE FAST DELIVERY -FREE SERVICE -ASK FOR SPECIAL SPRING SEMES­TER DISCOUNT COLOR CITY TV 259-7661 or 7662  HELP! Need 2 or 4 Syracuse-NO basket­ball tix. Please call284-5011! Need 1 Syracuse stu or GA. call1710 BIG BUCKS need 4 SYRACUSE stud tix call Mark x1204 HORSE DIED--NEED SYRACUSE TICK­ETS!Ill you are willing to part with yours, please call Sharon ]2871. Will pay$$$$! .................................................... HELP!! I have a friend coming lrom the University of Virginia. She wants to see whal real basketball is like. She's tired ol watch the doormats ol the ACC play. I  Ted Smith eats quiche! WINTER PARK, COLOtiADO ... $212.00 Six nights, lour-day ski pass We need 48 sign-ups for a bus, otherwise we will take cars MANDATORY MEETING ON MONDAY, JAN. 28, AT 7 P.M. AT THE LITILE THEATER Call Joe at 3296 or Eric al277-4617 il in­lerested . I'm sorry, sir, but that line is busy. Would you like to try again later?  Lisa P.. Thank you lor your ad1I warned you hopelessly,haplessly, madly,WIIdly,passionately,head-over­heels in love with me. You know what the best part is? I love you too! By the way. the Sh1ek-eroo can't wait until New Year's Eve comes around again-What are you doing Fri. night?!!? love,Phil Trish, Mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm! Tom -SKI. ..SKLSKI.. WINTER PARK. COLO STUDENT UNION SKI TRIP CALL JOE AT 3269 OR ERIC AT 277­ 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 TYPING JACKIE BOGGS 684-87113 SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS appli­cation deadline IS February 1. More info at Center lor SOCial Concerns' The New York Times' For delivery ollhe T1mes to anyone on campus tor 35 cents a day contact George Devenny 145 Stan­lord Hall 283-2094 FUN AND HARD WORK WITH KIDS AS CAMP COUNSELOR YMCA STORER CAMPS IS CARING, CHRISTIAN COM· MUNITY SERVING KIDS 7-17 UNIQUE PROGRAMS: HORSES, AQUATICS, SAILING, WILDERNESS ADVENTURE, INTERNATIONAL EMPHASIS. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: ANN WIEDEMANN AT 283-3032 LOST/FOUND  either lhe hallucigens are still workmg or the girl next to me picked il up by accident. Anyway. call Kevin at 2103 illound. Lost: Gold and blue add-a-bead necklace. Very sentimental in value. II found call Laura al2732. REWARD. FOUND: A lady swatch in A.C. C. before Christmas Break. To da1m call Mike at 2122. LOST:MY IDEAL CHRISTMAS.ON THE BEACH, IN THE SUN. ON THE SAND WITH A BEER ...AND KELLY FITZGERALD. LOST MAROON AND GRAY PLAID WOOL SCARF WED IN LAFORTUNE OR THURS MORNING IN SOUTH DINING HALL PLEASE CALL 2116. LOST: GREEN SWEATER IN CUSHING, ROOM 208 IF FOUND, CALL JOHN AT 2196 NO QUESTIONS ASKED HELP! REWARD' LOST MY CHRISTMAS GIFT! I LOST MY LADIES GOLD WATCH FRI. NIGHT, POSSIBLY AT THE SUBURBS CONCERT. PLEASE CALL WANDA ]4058.HELP1 LOST: Retriever Collie-age: 7 years. The  need 1 Syracuse ticket. I have KEENAN REVUE tickets(already). Maybe we can male roommate wanted to share apart· make a deal. Call Scoh al3241 or 3242. men!, CAMPUS VIEW APTS. call 277-4833 WANTED m m I I PERSONALS SAVE MONEY!' PURCHASE YOUR TEXTS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937Wanled: A.ER lor lots ol D.M.S.R. with SOUTH BEND AVE.,NEXTTO CORBY'ST.o·c forever' .BAR. 233-2342. ...................... WANTED, TO BORROW: One airing ·•••························ ....... MAKE MONEY !! SELL YOUR CLASSbaaa, lor the Keenan Revue. REWARD: BOOKS TO PANDORA'S FOR $$ ORaeveral Revue tlcketal Make your bau CREDIT ! PANDORA'S BOOKS,937a celebrity today. SO.BEND AVE. 233-2342. Riders needed to Cleveland lor this OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, weekend. Sean 277-3953. CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.Needed: one roommate to live O.C. next year in a 6-room house ... Rent: $80 plus utilities ... To qualify you must be a Sun ASPEN!!!ASPEN!'!ASPEN!!!Bell-type person who hates lhe winter and SPRING BREAK '85 loves the beach and surf ...Must like to lis­CALL MIKE AT 283-3573 OR LARRY AT ten to the Beach Boys and Jan & Dean ... 283-3630 FOR INFO. Call 2577 and ask tor Le ... HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THE YELLOW SUB AT 272-4453. MO-TH 8­11pm FR-SA 8pm-1am  KEENAN REVUE TICKET DISTRIBU­TION: Notre Dame atudanta Tueaday, Jan. 29. Chautauqua Ballroom, 4:30 p.m. f.D.a required Aa alwaya, tlcketa are free. KEENAN REVUE TICKETS: limit 2 par peraon. Showa: Jan. 31-Feb.2, O'Laughlln Aud, 8:00. Willard and Marko aay, "Ba there." II interested in going to Nash­ville/Vanderbill weekend ot Feb 16, call Mark at 1638 early in morning or late at night. KEENAN REVUE TICKET DISTRIBU­TION: Saint Mary·a atudenta Tu..day, Jan. 29 O'Laughlln Aud. 4:00 p.m.I.D.a required. We need a roommate tor next year... Great OC house ... You mustlovelhe sun­shine(sopmelhlng we don't have In SB)...A collection of Beach Boys and Jan&Dean albums is a musl... Call Le at 25771or further into Found: Lots ot B.M.SR. with T.o·c forever. Love. A.E.R. STEREO FOR SALE Emerson w/ cas­ 4617 DEPOSITS ARE DUE!!!!!! BUT THERE IS STILL ROOM TO SIGN UP SKI SKI SKI MEETING MONDAY, JAN 28 AT 7 P.M. AT THE LITILE THEATER FOR THE STUDENT UNION SKI TRIP TO WINTER PARK COLO. John Fitzsimmons: Who wanted you bad thiS weekend? ATIENTION: JUNIOR SMC CHICKS AND WALSH SORORITY SISTERS, HOW WAS YOUR FREE PIZZA PARTY? WHO ATE THE MOST? HOW DARE YOU KICK US OUT AND THEN LATER COMPLAIN THAT YOU GIRLS NEVER GET ASKED OUT? NEXT TIME, DON'T ADVERTISE YOUR PIGOUTS IN THE OBSERVER. P S. WALSH GIRLS-HOW COME Y'ALL DRESS UP All PRETIY FOR THE SMC CHICKS BUT Y'ALL WEAR SWEATS OVER HERE? To Our Illustrious Walsh Hall Secretary Mary Langer Who refuses to SMUT herself: Aller skiing in Austria Mary was heard to say, "I wouldn't want to go skiing on my honeymoon . I'd be too bruised'"  
LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETIER JACKET, BLUE AND BLACK WITH NAME ON INSIDE POCKET. MISPLACED AT BRIDGETI'S TUESDAY EVENING OR EARLY WEDNESDAY MORNING. PLEASE RETURN , NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CALL J.R. REID AT 277-7581. LOST: One tear-shaped gold eamng be­tween Lew1s and the Credit Union ... II found please call Anne 2624 "LOST": One long, black, wool coat. II you "found" II In the Commons last Mon. night, would you please return illo the Lost and Found in the Ad.M1n Bldg? II you're not Willing to do so, would you at least return my room key, mmens or any other Item you do not des~re to keep? li's a COLD world out there, bul I'm trymg to keep a warm heart about It! LOST Single Strand PEARL NECKLACE on campus PLEASE CALL Jod1e 1669 HELPII has anyone lound basketball tick­eta lor bleacher sectJon 102 (I lhink)?? PLEASE call Dave 1245 or 1352  dog IS golden with a black stnpe on tail and II has black markings around eyes and muzzle. The dog's name is "Winston". II localed please call 277­5828 or 272-6920. LOST: Black wool coat at a party. Friday night at Turtle Creek. II found please con­tact me at 1090: NO questions asked. LOST: Brighl GREEN scarf in Campus V1ew parking lot or !here &bouts late Fr~day n1ght. The beg lady coat will not be lhe same without it. II found please call Nancy al3719. LOST: Blue NO Beg.Contains 2 Sharp calculators (sc1entilic and solar), pencils and pens.Lost probably at Dining Halls.Galvin, or Stepan Chern. on December 21.Prove me wrong that NO studenls are thieves and return to NO Lost and Found or Call Tomat1524 aller tOam MWF or aller 2:30 pm on weekends. Lost: A pair ol NIKES (Mid-tops) Basket­ball shoes. Wh11e with blue and red stripes. Last seen at the mens locker room at the Rock. II found please call Cliff al1436.  FOR SALE ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER SMITH­CORONA CORONET SUPER 12. LIKE NEW AT HALF THE COST. $90 CALL 283-4278 FOR SALE: Ona new Paraaound TURNTABLE. Bought thla aummar, and haa not been ueed alnca. GrMI lor dorm uaa. Call Chuck at 3240 or 3249. YOU WANT IT I GOT IT Yes...lloppy disks only $1.5 Call me-JOHN 3592 FOR SALE: YAMAHA 6-STRING JUMBO FOLK GUITAR (MODEL FG-34511). Like new. Case Included. $200. Call 234-1067 between 9:00 am and 3:00 pm. Ask lor Jim. TICKETS  Pool Tournament Beginning Feb. 1 Signup in pool room. So Baker, did you ever remember what she looked like??? Yo Flo& B.O.: O.C. is the placetobenext year. Just probing my dear!!!!!! SPRING BREAK IS COMING ........ ARE YOU READY?! AVOID THE RUSH AND PLAN NOW FOR A WONDERFUL WEEK IN STEAMBOAT SPRINGS, COLORADO... S. PADRE IS­LAND.... CORPUS CHRISTI ... OR, DAYTONA BEACHI PLENTY OF REASONABLE PACKAGES ARE WAITlNG. CALL RENE FOR MORE INFO. AT 1190. ANDI, We love you_ Larry, You say all the right things. ihe  sehe, turntable etc. GREAT SPEAKERS Bought lor $350 in B3,selling lor only $200.Call Claire 2719 362 Badin Con, got any extra raisons, or have you used them all? Really, Kelly! Righi in Iron\ of the Fresh­men Year ol Studies Office' FRANK SINATRA does not write lor Viewpoint -but you can. The Viewpoint department is currently seeking regular columnists. II you are a Notre Dame or Saini Mary's student and can express you opinions clearly, Viewpoint needs you. II interested call Dave Grote at239-5303. Miss K. Geary Even though you're no longer a teen, can we still Go Crazy 2gether? THE ND/SMC ITALIAN CLUB is meeting this Tuesday, January 29, at 6:30 in the LaFortune Lihle Theatre. Plans lor this se­mester's activities will be discussed. DEAR lr. joyce we missed you al the band banquet thursday nite ...  VIOLENT FEMMES ROAD TRIP: Pro­greulve Mualc Club will aponaor a road trip to Kalamazoo Sun. Feb. 1 o to aee the Femm... Tlcketa will be on aale Tu...S.y only. Where will they be on aale? How much will It coat? s.. Tueaday'a claullleda lor detalla. VI­OLENT FEMMES..be there. ONCE UPON A TIME ... Ihere was a very cold kingdom called DOMERLAND. An ol the subjects ol lhe kingdom wished lhal they could move their land to a warmer climate. Movement ol lhe kingdom was deemed Impossible by the higher aut­horities, so the STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD devised a plan. They determined to send as many olthe subjects as possi­ble to Ft. Lauderdale and Daytona Beach lor the low prices of $299 and $199 respectively. To discover how the slory ends, call237-7757 or contact the Record Store at the La Fortune. DO YOU KNOW who lhe "LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT" is? It is lhe Studenl Activities Board SAB is offering a trip to DAYTONA BEACH!!! Do you like lun and parties in the sun? Then call237-7757.  
FOUND FOUND FOUND HEY DON'T CRYIIF YOU LOSE A GOLD IRISH RING A COUPLE OF DAYS AGO I FOUND IT, GIMME A CALL ASAP AT 4008 ASK FOR JOSUE SORRY I DIDN'T PLACED THE AD EARLIER  LOST: Jan. 15. Blue wallet w/ GA Driver's license, military I.D. and other valuables in or around Corby's II Bndget's. Need desperately! Call Kerry McMonigle, SMC 4322  NEED SYRACIJSE BASKETBALL TICK­ETS DESPRATELY!!!! PLEASE CALL 277-8497 HELP! Need 3 Syracuse vs NO tickets. Please call Terry at1991!  Loved one . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' ' ' ' ..... . . .. . . . .. . . '... A hearty late-night HELLO to the Goddess Quad! Hiya, Babes ... yourlourth  ...were you afraid ... or were you busy thinking ol how to tell us we were NOT going to the mardi gras either...  ARTS and LETIERS BUSINESS SOCI· ETY SPONSORS A NIGHT WITH THE NORTHERN TRUST CO. OF CHICAGO. TUES. JAN. 29 7:00 124 HAYES HEALY. ALL ARE WELCOME.  



It would help, though, if the Irish could shoot better than 35.6 per­cent. 
~ ftl Saturday's Results Maryland n, Notre Dame 65 Notre Dame (65) 
~ ~ 239-7793 ! ~ 

~ ~ 
Theindependentstudentnewspaper M FG·A FT-A R F P serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is 
Kempton 14 1-11 0-0 4 1 2
! Nervous about new classes and teachers? i 
Dolan 11 0-1 0-0 3 0 0
accepting applications for the following 
Barlow 32 8-13 0·0 5 2 16
&. Try tapes 30 and 33 a. 
position: 

Rivers 36 2-13 1-2 3 2 5 
Hicks 13 0-3 0-0 2 0 0
~ ~ 
ftl Ill!....! • _1.... _ I» 
Price 18 2-5 0-0 1 1 4 ~ 1 ..1_.1, lod1.... 6. 
Royal 33 2-10 8-12 9 4 12
1985-86 Editor-in-Chief 
.., J ""' of JM-, til 
Peters 4 0-0 0-0020
• ftp1oo1 bt-I» Voce 14 3-5 0-0 3 5 6
g • .......,.......u" """""" -r..1.... ~ 
The Observer 
Interhall hockey season underway; Zahm early surprise with 2-0 start 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
After a layoff ofover a month due to finals and semester break Inter­hall hockey teams skated back into action on the ACC ice rink last week. Zahm Hall has already turned out to be this season's early surprise. 
After beating Fisher, 4-3, before break, Zahm's record stands at 2-0, good enough for a share of the Cor­rigan Division lead. The Rabid Bats were paced in their victory by Tom Tierney, who notched two goals and an assist. Charlie Hackett registered his second game-winner, and Ed Graber turned on the light to round out the scoring. Zahm recieved out­standing blueline play from first­year defenseman Mike Burgoyne. Zahm captain Michael Sullivan said he is excited about his team's hot start. 
"We hadn't won a game for a few years, and now we're in first place. We've had great fan support in our first two games and, the ream's really 
Wadkins takes Los Angeles Open 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES Lanny Wadkins set and tied a flock of records with a front-running, 7-under-par 64 that provided him with a 7-shot victory and his second triumph in three weeks yesterday in the Los Angeles Open Golf Tournament. 
Wadkins, one of golfs most ag­gressive players, declined to play it safe despite his growing lead and 
FOR RENT 

furnished, 3 bedroom home washer & dryer close to campus 
4 ROOMATES NEEDED 
Only $125.00 each 
call287-0148for apt. 
!lip andsa~·e·c;;;n;;liiie; and~ve<lip i 
C. : ::::::=ructt" Cdt\cl• 
; t UIMreUMba J•lwey ud 19M t.o D..l .... 10 lawtela, ... ftl U .......,. Opoa to Othoro 
~ 11 Dot... Slllllo 
of ~: ::':o::::=!~,.
II» )0 Allxlety aad ,_dble .,.,.. to Cope Wlth 
8. !~ =!: =l~~..~U••• 
~ )6 Iacnut.aa S.lf...A-.nMN C ~~ =~!:.~~~;!:!::: aad Copfidanca ftl » -~~ 
st r-1• Sex lol•-<:hanae• and Streaaaa .0 Male SI:JI lala--a..np. Uld Strea..a ,.... l.Mniq to kce'Pt Tounalf 61 Mhet la Tbon'apy and How to Uea It 70 Iafatuatloti or Lo..7 ll llolf to Cope wlth a kollan ldatlonahip 11 Death and DJ1na 
•s Uadaratandinl Grief 
to Halptnc a FThnd 160 Earl,. Sip• of an alcohol Probl• 161 laaponllible DKiaiona about Drl.nUna 402 Self Aaaertivaneu 612 txa.plaa of Contract lu1ltl1n1 4ll What 1a Depraaa.ion U2 How to Deal with peprau1on Ul Depre111on aa a Lihat,.la 671 leca.1ftc Inct.po1•"t fro. Parenti ·Ut Du.U.q 111ith Alc...ttotic: Paranu 491 Su1c1dal Criab 

happy about that. We'll be there at playoff time," he said. 
Corrigan Division co-leader Stan­ford returned to play Tuesday night and shut out Carroll, 4-0. Once again Stanford got great net minding from John Lacy as he recorded his second shutout in as many games. In addi­tion, Eric Melkerson scored a hat trick to lead the offense, and Mike Huberty completed the scoring. Before break, Stanford had beaten Fisher, 3-0, as Melkerson, Pat Col­lins, and Mike Macnulty scored single tallies. 
In the only other Corrigan Divi-. sion game, Pangborn skated past Sorin by a 6-2 margin in the debut outings for both clubs last Monday night. Bill Doyle and Paul Schoephoerster paced Pangborn with two goals apiece. Goaltender Dave Long also turned in a solid per­formance. 
Monday night in the Krause Divi­sion saw division leader Dillon blank Keenan, 6-0, in a game marred by a brief fight. Sophomore goalie Dan Sorensen notched the shutout while Pual Graney, Greg Neweefer, and 
punished the proud old Riviera player to go past S2 million in career Country Club course with a record winnings and now has $2,049,789. 264 total, 20 strokes under par and In 13 rounds this season, Wadkins six better than the previous standard has not been over par and reduced set byJohnny Miller in 1981. his scoring average to 67.2. 
Wadkins, who won the Bob Hope His winning margin was the larg­Classic that opened the Tour three est on the Tour since Calvin Peete weeks ago also with a record score won the Pensacola Open by the collected 572,000 from the total same margin in 1982. purse of 5400,000 and pushed his His score on rounds of 63, 70, 67 earnings for the young season to and 64 was the low 72-hole total on 
S172,350. He became only the ninth the Tour since the fall of 1983. 
Duff 71-10-0012
~a. 

Spencer 15 5-7 1-3 4 3 11
V\tt\ It 
Open to any ND or SMC undergraduate 
Beeuwsaert 3 2-5 3-4 1 2 7
I» 

in good standing 200 26-74 13-21 35 23 65 FG Pet. -.351. FT Pet. -.619. Team 
6, 

rebounds-4. Turnovers -8. Assists-6 (Hicks, 
It ;S 
Elected by 1985-84 General Board Rivers 2). Technicals-none.
~ 
Maryland (n)
-

of The Observer M FG-A FT·A R F P
-9" 

Bias 34 8-13 2-3 9 2 18
g 

Jones 27 4-7 2-2 7 2 10 26 1-3 1-2 6 4 3
Assume position March 25,1985 Lewis 
Gatlin 25 7-9 0-0 3 2 14 Branch 26 2-9 2-3 7 3 6 Adkins 263-63-4029 Baxter 14 3-3 4-4 3 0 10 Long 13 0-1 3-4 6 2 3 Driesell 4 0-0 4-5 0 0 4 Palmer 4 0-0 0-0 0 2 0
Applications must be submiHed to Bob 
Woods 10-0 0-3010 200 28-51 21-30 41 20 n
Vonderheide by 5 p.m. Feb. 1, 1985 
FG Pet. .549. FT Pet. -.700. Team rebounds -1 Turnovers -14. Assists -14 
Tim Staucke each found the net twice. Tuesday night, the Holy Cross/St. Ed's team took advantage of the power play to down Flanner, 4-1. 
"Most of the penalties came from the no-check rule," explained HC/St. Ed's captian Dan Lafreniere. "You're only allowed incidental contact when riding a man off the puck. You can't slam a guy into the boards. The referees have been pretty good about it, though." 
Due to limited ice availability, many teams have seen action only once. One team, Alumni, has yet to play. 
Thursday night saw two games in action. Sorin defeated Fisher in a close game, 4-3, by scoring two goals in the final two minutes ofplay. Ken Richelson scored all three goals for Fisher. 
Off Campus then faced Grace in a well-attended game, but the two teams were left in a standoff, 2-2. A fight at the beginning of the second period resulted in the ejection of two players from the contest. 
Monday, January 28, 1985-page 9 

t 

Lanny Wadkins bas reason to be excited after winning the Los Angeles Open yesterday. The victory, his second in three weeks, earned him 170,000 as he finished with a record 264 total, 20 strokes underpar and seven strokes ahead ofhis nearest competi­tor. Story is at left. 
Terps 
continuedfrom page 12 

had some key people in the middle who seemed to lose confidence." 
Phelps refused to blame the team's travel problems for its poor performance, but he did admit that the practice his team missed would probably have helped. 
"You have to be able to play under any circumstances," he said. "You should always be ready to play. Still, we're not the type of team who can afford to miss a practice." 
Neither Phelps nor his players seemed overly concerned about the effects of the loss on the team's con­fidence. "We just need to win on Monday" was the common response. 


692 Recocnh:lnl Suic\daJ Pountlall in Othera 
(Adkins 4). Technicals ·none. 
493 tt.lptna S~oM in a Suicidal Crlah 

The Observer Halftime-Maryland 29, Notre Dame 18. Of­
3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center ficials-Ben Dunn, Sonny Holmes. Wally Tan­
Notre Dame, IN 46556 ner. A-14,500 (c). 
The Observer Monday,January 28, 1985-page 10 
Defenses dominate 

Box Score 
AFC wins Pro Bowl battle, 22-14 
Yesterday's Results 


OePaul72, Notre Dame 64 
Associated Press It came just as the NFC appeared Only one AFC score -a 33-yard ready to increase a 14-12 lead it had field goal byJohnson -was set up by 
Notre Dame (64) 
HONOLULU -Art Still of the taken on a 13-yard third quarter the offense. The other points came 
M FG·A FT·A R F p
Kansas City Chiefs returned Neil touchdown pass from San Fran­when Gastineau dumped Dickerson 
Keys 32 10-19 4-4 5 4 24 
Lomax' fourth-quarter fumble 83 cisco's Joe Montana to Green Bay's for a safety in the end zone and on a 
Bates 25 4·6 4·8 7 2 12 
Schueth 32 3-8 2·2 8 5 8 Gavin 38 3·11 0·0 3 4 6 
yards for a touchdown to give the James Lofton and a fourth-quarter six-yard pass from Miami's Dan 
American Football Conference All­one-yard run by Chicago's Walter Marino to the Raiders' Marcus Allen. 
Dougherty 29 3-10 0·0 2 5 6
Stars a 22-14 win over the NFC Sun­Payton. The pass came after a partial block of 
Both am 18 1·3 2·2 2 3 4 day in a Pro Bowl dominated by two But on a second down and 11 a punt by Seattle's Fred Young that 
Kaiser 16 2-6 0-0 2 3 4 Brommeland 5 0-1 0-0 3 0 0
record-breaking defenses. from the AFC 15, Lomax collided gave the AFC the ball at the NFC 1 5 
Basford 4 0-0 0-0 0 0 0
Still's winning play was a fitting with Eric Dickerson in the NFC and a 9·0 halftime lead. , 
Ebben 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0
climax to a game in which the two backfield and Still picked up the ball The main highlights of the first 
200 26-65 12-16 32 27 64 
teams combined for a Pro Bowl and rambled down the field un­half that was scoreless for 26 
FG Pet. -.400. FT Pet. -.750. Team DePaul(72)
record 1 7 sacks, four by Mark Gas­touched. The AFC's insurance field minutes were the 51-yard average 
rebounds -4. Turnovers -9. Assists -8 M FG-A FT-A R F P
tineau of the New York Jets, who goal by Seattle's Norm Johnson was punting of Miami's Reggie Roby and 
(Gavin, Keys 3). Technicals-none. 
O'Brien 30 3-10 7-9 2 3 13 
was named the game's Most also set up by a defensive play, when the Gastineau-led AFC pass rush. 
Watts 25 3-6 3-6 13 3 9 
Valuable Player. The AFC's first New England's Andre Tippett The first score came with 4: 10 left 

Manuel 39 5-8 6-6 13 4 16 Anderson 40 7-11 10-13 3 3 24
score came on a safety and its recovered a Lomax fumble. in the half after the NFC started at its 
Morgan 20 2-3 0-0 2 0 4 Mitchell 19 0-2 0-0 1 0 0 
second after a partially blocked The win avenged a 45-3 loss by own 20. On first down, the New 
punt. the AFC last year, but was only its York Jets' Joe Klecka sacked St. 
Fitzpatrick 10 1-4 2-2 2 0 4 
second in seven years in the annual Louis' Neil Lomax for an 11-yard 
Parrish 10 1-4 0-0 0 1 2 
National Football League All-Star loss; on second down, the Raiders' 
Hogan 60-00-0030 
Harris 10-0 0-0000
game. The NFC leads the series, 9-6, Rod Martin dumped him at the
Friars 

200 22-48 28·36 36 17 72
since the merger of the NFL and three, and on third down Gastineau 
TH[ FIGHTING
continuedfrom page 12 American Football League. swarmed all over the Dickerson as 
FG Pet. • .458. FT Pet. • .778. Team 
rebounds· 0. Turnovers· 15. Assists-7 
(Anderson 3). Technicals ·none. 

substitute, but has emerged into As so often happens in these he tried to get out ofthe end zone to 
DIRISH 
starting roles In all the Big East games, the defensive was much give the AFC a 2-0 lead. 
Halftime · Notre Dame 30, DePaul 25. 
games. Wright has begun to use more cohesive than the two offenses The next time the NFC got the 
Officials · Jerry Gibbons. Kevin McCann. 
some of his potential by ranking that had little time to practice to· ball, Lomax was sacked first by Gas­
A-617. 

second on the team in rebounds and gether. tineau. blocked shots, while also scoring 5.3 points a game overall and 7.6 in con­ference games. 
Guard Bill Donovan also began the year on the bench, but has en· 

Spend a night at Ford Theater
tered the starting lineup for the last few games. The 6-2 sophomore 

uG.n oH to a great start llfl~lt If/fOrd"
playmaker only averages 3.5 points a game, but ranks high on the team in assists. 
Harold Starks and Keith Lomax have each been starters at one time during the year, but now come off the bench. Starks, a 6-0 junior guard, leads the team in assists and steals, while also scoring 6.3 points a game. Lomax, a 6-6 senior forward, puts in 
5.5 points a game for the Friars, and Is third on the team in rebounding. 
Matt Palazzi comes off the bench In every game to provide plenty of scoring. The 6-2 freshman guard averages 7.9 points a game, includ­ing a team high 28 against Holy Cross. He also shoots 90.0 percent from the free throw line. 
Notre Dame assistant coach Jim Baron scouted the Friars in their 65 · 57 loss to Villanova, and feels that they are strong in several key areas. 
"Providence is a pretty good team. lbey have good size and really shoot the ball well from the outside," said Baron. "Weller is a very good player and Knight is effec­tive around the basket. Palazzi is a good shooter as their first substi· tute." 
Providence should be a stronger opponent than it appears to be on paper. Although the Friars are only playing at a .500 clip, their losses in­clude some tough conference teams, plus defeats at the hands of Dayton and Marquette. The Friars are capable ofpulling offan upset, as they did in their first contest of the season, beating Virginia, 75-71. 





CO-SPONSORED BY 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~4(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------M-o_n_da_y_,J_a_n_u_~
__2_s_,_19_8_s_-_p_a_ge---11 
Doonesbury 
Tank McNamara 


Garry Trudeau 
Campus 
•3:30 
-5 p.m. -Career Workshop, "How To Decide On A Career," joan Mcintosh, Career Counselor, Career & Placement Services in the Memorial Library, Sponsored by Career & Place­ment Services, Free. 

•6 
-8 p.m. -Sign-ups, Volunteers for Shelter for the Homeless, Ffrst Floor LaFortune, Ombudsman Desk. 

•7 
p.m.-AIESEC Meeting, International Associa­tion of Students in Business and Commerce, Infor­mation for New Members, Hayes Healy Auditorium. 


TV Tonight 
Monday,January 28 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 
"81NKL£Y &6T5 HIS~. IINfl 
l!€COttf[fJ II YIHn' "•. "8/NKl€Y 
Mllf{Riffi H/5 IAW'Ia( 1/N/l 81/YS 
MI/TCHIN& 1?1/NN/N& Sf«~'~·­"81NKl€Y llf€S llf11&6 37 
CHOKING CW II CI?OISMNr" 
-\ 
1\W-, IG/1€65 ~WONT Be 
N€€/l!N& HMM. IIL/Smt/1. CbOK€ 
I 




6:00p.m. 6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
10:00p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. 12:30a.m. 2:00a.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
16 NBC Nightly News 
22 CBS Evening News 
28 ABC World News Tonight 
16 M0A*S0H 
22 Three's Company 
28 Jeopardy 
16 Barney Miller 
22 WKRP in Cincinnati 
28 Wheel of Fortune 
16 1V Bloopers and Practical jokes 
22  Special  -Robert  Kennedy  &  His  
Times  
28  The American Music Awards  

34 Wonderworks-Run Rebecca, Run 
16 Movie 
34 American Playhouse -The joy That Kills 34 Piano Players Rarely Ever Play To­gether 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Movie -For Me and My Gal 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Simon & Simon/McMillan 
28 ABC News Nightline 
28 Love Connection 
16 Late Night With David Letterman 
28 Children Between Life and Death 
22 Nightwatch 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Mop 5 Ran easily 
10 Fast planes 14 Tibetan priest 15 Unaccompanied 16 Hero 
17 Fixed quantity 18 Sows 19 Title 20 Earns 22 Disciplined 
in away 24 Move to and fro 
27 Chill 28 See -(agree 
completely) 31 Economize 35 Hoover's state 36 Sweetheart 38 Presidential 
monogram 39 PayaiJie 68 Fountain drink 40 Epcot's state 69 Opposite of 42 Smith and Hirt aweather 43 Gowrong 70 Requires 

71 Opposite of 44 Starr of the dele 
Beatles 45 Edison's state 46 Save DOWN 
48 Hemingway's 1 Urban area 

state 2 Ebb 3 Moslem ruler 4 Castro's51 Fix as an predecessorelection 5 Moviedog

52 Stage whisper 53 Judge 57 Landon's state 6 Bullring cheer 61 Thug 7 Poet Edgar 62 Longfellow's 8 Remnants 
state 9 Abhorred 65 "Iliad" e.g. 10 Wrongdoer 66 Boxing site 11 Pierre's 67 City in 45A state: abbr. 
12 Large volume 13 Rosebud, e.g. 21 Tango 
requirement 
23 Ghana city 25 Synthetic fiber 26 Ty Cobb's state 28 Sea duck 29 "-a Good Man 
Charlie Brown" 
30 Pitchers 32 Sun Valley's 
state 33 1552 34 Mex. coins 37 Bass instru­
ments 40 Lemon or lime 41 Vassal 45 Unity 47 Cower 56 Libertine 49 Compares 58 Espy 50 Ms Lupino 59 Assistant 53 Taj Mahal site 60 Jazz form 54 Agitate 63 Wrath 55 Tibia or 64 Sign of 

fibula approval 
Thursday's Solution 



Monday, january 28, 1985-page 12
SRorts 

Maryland capitalizes on Irish inaccuracy, 77-65 


Notre Dame falls to 9-5 as Terrapins romp on strength ofgame-high 18 from Len Bias 
By MIKE SULLIVAN of bad shooting, though. David turn the close game into a rout. Sports Editor Rivers had his poorest day of his In less than three minutes, the 14­brief college career as he missed on 9 lead turned into a 23-1 I lead. Only 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. -If you 1 I of his 13 shots. Donald Royal the unexpected offensive contribu­thought it was cold in South Bend played well off the bench, but his 2-tion of Barry Spencer kept Notre this weekend, you should have been of-1 0 shooting would not win him Dame within striking distance. The in Cole Field House on Saturday. any awards. senior forward scored five point~ Despite the heat emanating from All told, Notre Dame missed 4 7 and pulled down three rebounds in 14,500 vocal spectators, a sheet of shots (26-of-73, 35.6 percent), no the final five minutes of the half to ice formed over the basket at which thanks to a Maryland defense that, cut the score to 29-18 at the inter­Notre Dame was shooting, causing despite nine blocked shots, was very mission. Considering that the Irish shot after shot to bounce away. unimpressive. The Irish had little hit a blistering 21 percent (8-of-38) Or so it seemed in Saturday's 77-problem getting high-percentage from the field in the half, it was a 65loss to Maryland. shots. They just could not make wonder the score was as close as it 
Ice or not, the Irish appeared to them. Of the team's 73 shots, over was. have-lost their shooting touch in the 40 were from five feet or closer. On Spencer's play earned him a spot blizzard which shut down Michiana a day when they turned the ball over in the lineup to start the second half. Regional Airport and forced the just eight times (a season low) and He was joined by Rivers, Royal, Bar­team to bus to Toledo to catch a late played their hosts even on the low and Joseph Price. The quicker flight for Washington (via Pit­boards, the cold shooting was the lineup began to pay dividends as the tsburgh). difference. Irish began cutting into the 
Few probably suspected that the "We just played a bad game," said Maryland lead. When Barlow hit a blizzard was an omen of the bad Dolan, who missed his only shot. 20-foot jumper from the right side at dream awaiting the team in Cole, but "Some days everybody is just cold, the 14:53 mark, they found them­once the game started it soon and today was one ofthose days." selves within six, 37-31. The Terps became obvious that it was not The Terrapins did not make things and Barlow traded baskets for the going to be Notre Dame's day. any easier for Notre Dame as they next few minutes, but a missed layup 
The Irish did take a brief 37-took advantage of the missed shots and a turnover kept Notre Dame second lead at 5-4 early in the game to get their transition game going. from getting any closer. when Tim Kempton followed a Jim After the Irish took their short-lived Suddenly, though, the game was Dolan miss. It was all downhill from lead, Maryland picked up the tempo over. The Irish went cold again and there for the team and for Kempton, by creating several fastbreak oppor­Maryland began hitting everything. though, as the junior probably tunities. Within six-and-a-half minutes, the wished he was spending his 21st Point guard Keith Gatlin started Terps had built up a 20-point lead, birthday in Corby's instead of in the Terp rally with a driving layup 60-40. Six late points by Voce Maryland. Just like most of his up the middle. He then pumped in helped cut the lead to 12 by the end teammates, he never found the jump shots from 20 and 17 feet, of the game, but the Irish never touch, finishing 1-of-11 from the dished the ball off for a slam, and threatened again. field and drawing "We want then finished the spree with a "We put ourselves in a hole in the Kempton" cheers from the fastbreak jumper. The spurt put first half," said a relaxed Phelps after Maryland students after his final miss Maryland ahead, 14-7, and forced the game. "You can't shoot 8-of-38 on an uncontested layup. Digger Phelps to call a timeout. on the road and hope to be in the 
Kempton was not the only culprit After the timeout, Ken Barlow, game. who led the team with 16 points -"It wasn't a case of poor shot se­the only starter with more than five lection, either. We worked for some points -connected on a baseline great shots. lbey just weren't going
Second-half DePaul rally deals ND 
jumper to cut the Terp lead to five. in. Once you start missing like we That was as close as the Irish could did, you lose confidence. And we get, however, as one missed shot 
see IRISH, page 8

women their first conference defeat 
after another allowed Maryland to 
By LARRY BURKE Irish had not played a game since 18-foot jumper by Sally Anderson, Sports Writer Jan. 19 when they won convincingly but Mary Beth Schueth hit a short in Detroit. baseline jumper off a pass from Laura CHICAGO-Notre Dame women's The dominance that Notre Dame Dougherty after the teams traded basketball coach Mary DiStanislao showed in the Detroit game seemed baskets to put Notre Dame up 38-31 descibed the two halves of yester­like a distant memory yesterday, as with 17 minutes left to play. That's day's contest with DePaul as "two the Irish hit a scoring drought early when the rooffell in for Notre Dame. completely different games." And, in the second half that allowed the DePaul coach Jim Izard called for while the Irish won that first "game," Lady Blue Demons to turn a nine­a timeout after Schueth's basket, and 30-25, they lost the second one, 47-point Notre Dame lead into a I 0-he must have had some inspirational 34, to wind up on the wrong end ofa point advantage of their own. words for his squad as they huddled 72-64 decision in DePaul's Alumni The Irish led by five at around the bench, because over the Hall. intermission, and stretched that lead next I 0 minutes the Blue Demons 
Notre Dame appeared sluggish to nine in the first 45 seconds of the went on a 23-6 tear that left the and tentative much of the afternoon, second half as Carrie Bates hit a reeling Irish on the short end ofa 54­apparently feeling the effects of an layup on a pass from Trena Keys and 44 score. dght-day layoff. Because of the Mary Gavin fed Keys for a short bank "DePaul played very well, but we postponement of Friday night's shot. DePaul cut the lead to five on a 
see TERPS, page 9
scheduled contest at Loyola, the baseline layup by Anne Parish and an 
Friars have upset potential 
Providence invades ACC tonight 
By NICK SCHRANTZ in the conference comes from the Waller also ranks second on the Sports Writer fact that they have played only two team in assists and is also a fine free­conference games at home. throw shooter. 
'!be Providence College Friars On Saturday Providence began to 6-2 junior guard Don Brown will take on Notre Dame tonight at 7 turn itself around by defeating Seton averages 10.0 points per game, but in a game which features two strug­!"lall, 72-70, and hopes to continue has scored 13.4 points in Big East gling teams, each of which needs a this revival with a victory tonight. games. Brown is the second-leading solid game and a win in order to help 'Ibe Friars return three starters shooter overall, but is shooting S2. 5 turn around somewhat disappoint­from a team that went I 5-14 last percent in conference games. Ing seasons. year for their first winning season in 6-9 center Ray Knight leads the 
Providenct" has lost four of its last six years. They lost Otis Thorpe, a Friars in rebounds with 6.9 per five games, and seven of its last nine. first-round draft choice of the NBA's game, and in steals with 31. Besides CoachJoe Mullaney's team now pos­Kansas City Kings, to graduation, but being a fine defensive player, this sesses a 9-I 0 record. still have a solid group ofstarters and senior also scores 8.1 points a game 
'!be Friars held a 6-3 record at one several fine substitutes. on a team-leading 50.9 percent time in the year, but then began a Forward Brian Waller leads Provi­shooting from the floor. brutal Big East Conference dence in scoring with a I 0.4 Freshman Steve Wright came out schedule. '!hey own a 2-S confer­average, but has come on to average ofhigh school as one ofthe top-rated ence record, but that includes losses 13.0 points in the Big East games. big men in the country. 1he 6-9 to nationally-ranked Georgetown, The 6-5 senior has led the Friars in power forward began the year as a Boston Colkge, Syracuse, and Vil­scoring five times this year, includ­
see FRIARS, page 10
lanova. Part of the Friars' problems ing a high of24 against Connecticut. 



