

Abortion anniversary -page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 77 the independent student newspaper snving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 1985 
Senate to inspect University policy on non-Catholic religious groups 
By MIKE MILLEN holding organized meetings on the fall gave the board a comprehensive Senior StaffReporter campus. report on the women's role at Notre Wurth, who is heading the sen­Dame, said she recently spoke with a In a move destined to increase ate's committee dealing with this board member and was told this in­
both religious freedom and freedom issue, said "There are people who formation. 
of assembly on campus, the Student came into campus as christians and In the second week of February, 
Senate unanimously voted last night they want a place to meet." Inter­Notre Dame will play host to about 
to examine the current University ested onlooker Bill Healy thought 20 students from various univer­
policy regarding nonCatholic religi­the current policy unjust. "If they sities, including Marquette, DePaul, 
ous groups. are going to let a person in, either let and Villa Nova. Exchange Coordina­
According to Executive Coordin­them practice (their religion) or tor Steve Taeyerts said the cost wold ator Doug Wurth, the official school don't let them in," he said. be approximately $300, with activi­policy, as set forth by Director of Wurth will have more informa­ties including a leadership confer­University Mini'itry Father Daniel tion, along with a copy ofthe official ence, several meals, and seats at the Jenky, prohibits nonCatholic religi­policy, in a future senate meeting. upcoming Syracuse basketball game. 
ous groups from organizing or Joanie Cahill, president of Lyons According to Student Body Presi­
meeting on campus. As examples of Hall, reported "the number one dent Rob Bertino, the event is neces­
this, he said both the Campus Bible issue at February's Board ofTrustees sary because "we get questions from 
Fellowship and the Campus Crusade meeting will be equal access" in ad­
see SENATE, page 5
for Christ have been forbidden from missions for women. Cahill, who last 
Delivery service 'has never been more popular than now' 
By HARDY LEWIS more popular than now, according staff. On pick-up day, the laundry laundry. "It is more work for us," he laundry out in the (first floor) hall to News Staff to Norm Muller, director of the staff delivers the subscribers' said, "but they (the dorm coordina­be picked up." laundry and dry cleaning service. bundles to their dorms, rather than tors) have been good about doing Muller said that St. Michael's 
With a service being offered in Presently, there are 550 subscrip­placing them in the bins at the their part, so we don't mind helping Laundry would be liable for theft ifit some Notre Dame dorms, male stu­tions to the "special delivery" ser­laundry. The dorm coordinators them out." were to sponsor such a delivery pro­dents can have their laundry not vice across the campus. then deliver the bundles either to in­In Dillon, where the program is gram. "That's where the dorm reps only steam-cleaned and tumble­While Flanner has since dropped dividual rooms or to a designated student-run, a percentage of the come in," he said. "When they take dried, but also delivered to their the service, representatives from pick-up spot in the dorm. profits is donated to the dorm. The the bundles from us they assume re­door. other dorms are initiating it in their -'The dorm representatiVe serves laundry receives no compensation sponsibility for them, and that's bet­
Student-initiated laundry delivery own halls. as a liaison between the laundry and for its delivery services. ter because they can make sure the services in Grace, Dillon, Morrissey The prices for the service range the student," said Dillon project co­Muller is cautious, however, of a bundles get to the students them­and other halls are picking up stu­between six and ten dollars per se­ordinator Andre Hutchinson. "We laundry-sponsored delivery pro­selves." dents' clean clothes at St. Michael's mester, depending on the dorm. provide a useful convenience at a gram. "If I could get your bundle The amount of subscribers to the Laundry on the north side ofcampus Grace's program is dorm sponsored, fair price. The weather's really been back to you without fear of it being service varies from dorm to dorm. In and delivering it to their doors. according to dorm coordinator rotten, and the guys have better stolen it would be successful," he Carroll Hall, nearly every resident 
The program was originally Wallace Harris, and all revenue goes things to do than walk all the way to said. "Some of the dorms aren't receives the service. Dillon's started by enterprising students in to the hall. the laundry." equipped for a program like that be­relatively new program, however, is Grace and Flanner Halls three years Dorm coordinators submit lists of Muller said that the service does cause they don't have laundry used by about one-third of the hall's ago. But the service has never been subscribers' names to the laundry increase the workload at the rooms, and the guys just throw their residents. 


Sophomore Kelly Normoyle (left) ana junior julia Miller, who returned this semester from the Arts and Letters London Program to the hostile weather, share the bitter cold yesterday. Two weather related stories at right. 
Winter cold requires extra caution 
By DIANNE MCBRIEN 
StaffReporter 
Despite temperatures which plunged below zero last weekend, it was business as usual on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
With wind-chill temperatures of thirty or more degrees below zero, however, it takes common sense and planning to keep one's self and one's car warm and win­terproof. 
Students need to protect their bodies against the weather, said Registered Nurse Harriet Joyce of the Notre Dame Student Health Center. She warned of frostbite, "We've been seeing a lot ofit in the last few days--mostly the uncovered spots, like fin­gertips and earlobes." 
Symptoms of frostbite include glossy white appearance and itching or stinging sensations in the affected skin. Blackened skin indicates advanced frostbite. Joyce recommends gently thawing the affected area with warm water or chafing. 
The layered look is more than just fas­hionable this winter. "A lot of layers help insulate body heat," said Joyce, who sug­gested that students should not go out un­less it is absolutely necessary and they are warmly dressed. Joggers should cover their mouths with scarves to block freez­ing air from rushing into their lungs. 
Students also should be careful not to mix drinking and exposure on chilly nights, Joyce said. She explained that alco­hol dilates the blood vessels, which causes loss ofbody heat, making the drinker espe­cially vulnerable to low temperatures. 
Notre Dame Security Director Glenn Terry suggested several ways that students can protect their cars from the cold. He recommended the use of light oil and an­tifreeze, as well as "keeping the battery well charged." 
Terry emphasized that students must use caution when planning to travel, and that they should listen to radio and televi­sion bulletins or dial numbers listed in the front of the telephone directory for road conditions. 
Weather can affect Notre Dame 
ByJOHN-JOHN AMORES 
StaffRepporter 
The blizzard-like conditions andrecord­
breaking cold that swept through South 
Bend this past weekend not only caused 
concern about overexposure and frostbite, 
but also fueled hopes ofpossible class can­
cellations. 
With regard to extreme weather condi­tions, the decision whether to cancel classes at Notre Dame is officially made by Provost Timothy O'Meara, since it is con­sidered an academic decision. However, the decision is also made with the coopera­tion of the associate provosts, and the in­formation gained from the local weather, police, and highway detachments. 
Associate Provost Father Edward Malloy 
said that in his ten-year experience on the faculty ofNotre Dame, there has only been one instance of classes being cancelled, and that was for a five-day weekend during the winter of 1977-78, when the city was at a complete standstill. 
Malloy said that the first consideration during inclement weather is the safety of faculty and students, and that if the situa­tion warrants, classes will be cancelled. yed. However, Malloy also said that the people of South Bend are used to the "rigouous" climate, and have a tendency to make it through difficult weather. 
Ifclasses were cancelled, though, Malloy said that the decision would be made promptly and relayed to the individual dorms, as well as announced through the local television and radio stations. 
The recent winter weather, although cold, has not affected the operation offood services. William Hickey, the director of food services at Notre Dame, said that all workers have been able to reach the dining
halls, and althou8b tbcrc .....____ difficulty in getting the trucks started, nothing has been held up. In fact, the only effect that the cold weather has had is to increase the number ofstudents using the dining halls and the Leprechaun Pizza ser­vice. 
The extreme winter weather of the past few days has brought to mind some of the other memorable winters in South Bend, 
see COLD, page 3 

The Observer Tuesday, january 22, 1985-page 2 

In Brief 

A Miami uDiversity studentwas killed Friday whlle visiting friends at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. According to Paula Mclain, Saint Mary's director of public relations, Chris Johnson died in an automobile accident on U.S. 31. Friday at 4:30 pm. · The Obseroer 
A civil action suit was filed against Texas Tech 
University administrators by the Student Services for Lesbians/Gays and Friends after the group was denied recognition as an official campus organization. SSLGF is basing its suit on the First Amend· ment right ofassociation. The administration has cited public health issues associated with homosexuality, and says that recognizing a group which promotes gay activities isn't in the school's best inter· 
ests. -The Obseroer 

More than $165,000 was raised by Notre Dame for United Way in its recent campaign. This is S3,000 more than the goal the University set as part of the St. Joseph County 1984 United Way Drive. It also sets a University record. William McLean, assistant dean of the law school and chairman of the University United Way Cam· paign said he attributed the success of the drive "to the hard work of a lot ofvolunteering people and the compassion and generosity ofall elements of the Notre Dame family." In addition to the $7,500 con­tributed by students, 1,600 administrators, faculty, staff and retirees of the University donated money to the cause. Employees of the Notre Dame Credit Union, Ave Maria Press and WNDU and members of the Holy Cross Order also were "willing participants" in the cam­paign, McLean said. -The Obseroer 
Eric Voegelin, visiting professor at Notre Dame and 1974 recipient of an honorary degree, died Saturday in Palo Alto, Calif., at the age of 84. He was a retired distinguished scholar at the Hoover Institution at Stanford. He taught six semesters at intervals of two or three years at Notre Dame. Born in Germany, he was ed­ucated in Vienna, and was the author of"Anamnesis," published in Munich in 1966, and "Science, Politics and Gnosticism," published in Chicago in 1968. He is survived by his wife, Lissy. -The Obseroer 
A 68-year-old plumber came forward yesterday in Chicago as the man who fatally shot a knife-wielding youth during a robbery attempt, and police said they considered him "a victim" and did not plan to arrest him. Harold Brown, who said he had been robbed before, told reporters he regretted the incident, but added, "I didn't have any choice." Brown's attorney, Thomas Royce, said, "He is a victim ofa crime. He is not a vigilante. If he had not shot, he wouldn't be here right now." -AP 
A chartered turboprop carrying up to 74 people home from a gambling junket crashed in a field and slid onto a four· lane highway after narrowly missing motels and apartment buildings In Reno, Nev. yesterday. The pilot tried to return to the airport be· cause ofvibrations. Authorities said all but three people on the plane were killed. -AP 
Weather 

A heat wave with highs near 25. Chance of flurries. Partly cloudy and cold tonight with lows near 15. A chance of flurries again tomorrow with highs from 25 to 30. -AP 

The Observer_ 
lbe Obsuver (USPS 599 2·4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on hom<c football Saturdays, <cxc<cpt during <exam and vacation p<crlods. lbe Observer Is publlsh<cd by the students of the Univer.;lry of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleg<c. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 p<cr year ( 520 p<cr se· mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer Is a member of lbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's Issue w2s produced by: 
Production Consultant .................... Steve Design Editor ........................... Paul Bruce Design Assistant ................. Chris Bowler Layout Staff................ Jane Ann Rledford Typesetters ......... Tracy Bringardener and Cathyann R"ynolds News Editor ............................. Mark Potter Copy Editor ................................ Frank Upo Sports Copy Editor................. Mary, Larry, and Marc Viewpoint Layout................... Paul Bruce Vetwpoint Copy Editor .... John Menn"U Features Copy Editor ......... Teresa Keefe Features Layout........... Catherine Coffee ND Day Editor ................ Barbara Stevens 
.Ad Design ................................ Fred Nelson Pboto[(rapber ......................... Vic Guarino 
Job at Court teaches compassion from a new point of view 
Fortunately, for most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
students, the only glimpse they get ofthe U.S. court sys­
tem is due to an occasional speeding ticket or being 
around the Five Points area at the wrong time. 
Traffic court, however, is only one small part of any 
city's court system. But contrary to what many televi­
sion shows would have you believe, the rest is not 
devoted to ·Jife-and-death child custody cases and 
alimony battles. 
Working at the Circuit Court of Cook County, Ill., during the summerand Christmas break, exposed me to the most frequent users of the courts -the poor and the disabled. While on television Blake Carrington fights to save his oil company, this is the time of year that many are trying to save their homes and their paychecks. 
The Cook County Court system is among the largest in the world. Over six million cases a year are handled, and civil trial court, garnishment court and eviction court carry most of that volume. The garnishment courts pick up where trial courts leave off. Once a defendant has been proven 


guilty, he must pay up. But One person had years ofa it's usually not that simple. .Catholic education. Another Often the person is un­had never gone further than employed, or simply can't af­a Chicago public high ford to pay the amount school, but had I 0 times the named in the suit or set by compassion of the religi­the judge. If that is the case, ously educated person. the courts go to his em­Students here will always ployer or bank account to be told they are the cream of collect. the academic crop, and how 
Garnishment court obvi­others would love to be in ously affects the poor, and their shoes. Four years at the cases seem endless. Six Notre Dame and Saint 
hundred cases a day is not Mary's does not necessarily unusual. Comparable in mean a better moral charac­caseload is Eviction Court, 
A Oiffertnt Perspective . . . ter or sense of values, 
very popular this time of f"'ARK 
year. Although it is against ~.>E•Mifi>'.T the law in Illinois to throw anyone out on the streets during the winter, the court was overflowing with 
landlords and tenants each day. Mothers, hoping for sympathy, carried babies into court and pleaded with the judge. Lawyers threaten tenants with the sheriff, and the possibility offorced eviction. And out in the hall, the landlords and tenants fought, threatened, and argued, until the bailiff kicked them out. 
Watching this process go on, and being involved in it, was a fantastic experience. The most interesting part of the job, however, grew to be observing the attitudes of my co-workers. 
During break, I worked with a sophomore ftom an­other prominent Catholic university in the Midwest. The contempt he showed towards defendants was amazing. His attitude was consistently, "If they're too lazy to go out and work, they deserve what they get." 
I wonder how prevalent this belief really is. Espe­cially among students at other prominent Catholic 

Please 
support 
AMERICAN 

Theresa Guarino 
Assistant News Editor 

schools, namely Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Most schools like to think they are turning out graduates who are bright, talented, and concerned with improving the world around them. But it seems to be these same privileged people, who give themselves the luxury oflooking down the nose at those they don't see as "measuring up" to their view ofhard work. 
My other co-worker was a woman in her 50s, who had been working in a courtroom since the age of 18. Never married, but with three children, she went out of 
her way to advise, and com­
miserate with many fright· 
ened people. 
l·ll however. And feeling super· 
ior is an easy trap to fall into. 
A Catholic education costs money, and students pur· chasing one arc usually not near the bottom of the economic scale. Trying to identify with those who are can be difficult. It is one thing to contribute a few dol· Iars to the local food pantry, but it's another thing to feel for the people you are helping. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpoint page. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Observer staff. 
CANCER  Love~ your PW Friends  
SOCIETY~  
..............................................................................................  

AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS ELECTRA by Sophocles 7:00P.M. Monday, January 21, O'Laughlin, Saint Mary's College Tuesday, January 22, Washington Hall, Notre Dame 
Audition information and materials available in COTH 
Department offices:· The Loft,O'Shaughnessy (NO) and 110 Moreau Hall (SMC) 

N'-..-..,1R.E tAME SNNr MAR'/S 
'IHE~ 

Auditions open to all Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Students 


) 

The Observer 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is acc~~ti_ng applications for the following 
pos1t1on: 

Accounts Payable Clerk 
e Must be a sophomore majoring in accounting. 
esalaried position. 
Submit a resume to Dave Stephen itch, controller, by noon Wednesday, January 23. For more information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
After JOUI" lastexam, wbat toughquestions will you still befacing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explbre the possibilities in community. 
Contact: 

Rev. Andre Lf:!veille, C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 
• Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 283-6385 
Tuesday,January 22, 1985-page 3 
' 
Protests mark abortion anniversary \ 
Associated Press  Yesterday, abortion rights sup­ Health Center in Los Angeles said  
porters ended a vigil that had lasted  they planned to keep watch at least  
Church bells will toll today in  more than 60 hours at the Fargo Wo­ through today.  
Fargo, N.D., to protest the 12th an­ men's Health Organization, but  
niversary of the U.S. Supreme Court  clinic staff said a security guard  Security was increased at the  
decision legalizing abortion, while  would remain on duty to ward off  Pilgrim Medical Group in Montclair,  
in 18 states, pro-choice supporters  any vandalism. Three men were ar­ NJ. "We're going to have guards  
pledged to continue their protests  rested Saturday in connection with  three days a week now, and we've  
against violence and vandalism at  eight anti-abortion bombings in  advised the staff that they can't be  
abortion centers.  Washington, D.C., Virginia and  lax," said Joe DeBlasi, a security and  
As anti-abortionist clergy stage a  Maryland in the past year.  personnel consultant at the clinic.  
symbolic funeral of a fetus in  
Portland, Ore., a coalition of religi­ At least 24 such bombing attacks  "I think the bombs are obviously  
ous and women's rights groups plans  have occurred since last January,  to create fear for a whole lot of  
a prayer breakfast in a downtown  and the National Organization for  people -women who seek services,  
Topeka, Kan., church.  Women sponsored round-the-clock  personnel who provide services - 
But on the anniversary, activists  vigils at 25 family planning centers  and that is deeply saddening," said  
on both sides said they wanted  and abortion clinics in 18 states to  Sarah Weddington, the attorney  
above all to avoid the violence that  protest the violence.  who argued the landmark case of  
has plagued the issue with increas­ Women holding a vigil outside the  Jane Roe before the Supreme Court  
ing regularity in recent months.  Hollywood Feminist Women's  in October 1972.  

Reagan restates first-term beliefs 
Associated Press ing by us, nor any doubts by others," 
he said. In the face of Soviet opposi­

WASHINGTON President tion, he emphasized his intention to Reagan, forced indoors by a record press forward with a "security inaugural freeze, re-enacted his shield" anti-missile system. oath-taking yesterday and reded­As Washington shivered in below­icated his second term to staunch zero wind chills, Reagan, 73, 
conservative principles. "We are scrapped the traditional Pennsylva­creating a new America, a rising na­nia Avenue parade out of concern tion," he declared with unabashed for the thousands of high-school optimism. band members. They found their in­In the beauty and comfort of the struments wouldn't make music on Capitol rotunda, Reagan emphasized the coldest inaugural day in Ameri­
the limits of government, but can history. stressed the need for a mighty ChiefJustice Warren E. Burger ad­defense. "There must be no waver-
ministered the oath to Reagan under 
YOURBSN COULD BE JUST THE BEGINNING OF YOUR EDUCATION. 
Look into it, and you'll discover that one of the most important parts of Army Nursing is its dedication to continuing education. Army Nurses are encouraged to attend professional conferences, pursue advanced degrees and study a variety of nursing specialties. 
If you're a student working on your BSN or if you already have a BSN and are registered to practice in the United States or Puerto Rico, check into Army Nursing opportunities. It could be an education. 
SGT John P. Moore Call (815) 727-9120 collect 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

THE TIME HAS ARRIVED!!! 
1985 Junior Parents Weekend February 15-16-17,1985 
We need 300 of the Best Students from Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's to assist us in this Notre Dame Student Tradition. 
JOBS Waiters -Waitresses -Laborers -Expediters 
Sign in with: Virdeen Rupert  -South Dining Hall (Accounting Office)  
Jean Wiley  -South Dining Hall (Basement)  
Pat Dillman  -Huddle  
Delores Wydrzynski  -North Dining Hall (Mgr's Ofc)  

UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
• 19841vy Award Winner ­
the Capitol dome, repeating a brief  
ceremony that took place in the  
White House on Sunday following  
the swearing-in of Vice President  
George Bush. In the background,  
spectators raised snapshot cameras  
to capture the moment.  
With a risk offrostbite being  
hundreds of thousands of parade  
marchers, spectators and guests at  
an outdoor swearing-in ceremony,  
Reagan accepted the advice of in­ 
augural planners and doctors and  
canceled the most spectacular  
events in a four-day, $12-million ex­ 
travaganza.  
Cold  
continuedfrom page I  
and the effect that they had upon the  
Notre Dame community.  
-Sister jean Lenz, assiStant Vice- 
president for student affairs, recalled  
that during the winter of 1977-78,  
when she was the rector of Farley  
Hall, the entire staff from Channel  
16, including popular local weather­ 
man Dick Addis, was forced to spend  
three days in the basement ofFarley.  
The station operated out of the  
building that is now the Center for  
Social Concerns, and the snowstorm  
had crippled the local roads.  
Malloy also has memories of the  
big snow of 1977·78. He remem­bered that after five days ofcrippling snow, the basketball team had a game against Maryland at the ACC. And because of the weather, it was  ,.,,,  
declared that no tickets would be needed for the game. Anyone who could make it to the arena could watch the contest. Malloy recalled that people came  ~ .,,, l,  
from "all over town" to watch the  ,  
game, which the Irish eventually won.  'I,  
Corrections  
Because of a production error,  
the photo on the front page of  
Tbe Obseroer yesterday was in­ 
correctly identified. The student  
in the picture is Mike Brogioli.  
Because of an editing error in  
the story on Bill Healy, Healy's  
class was incorrectly identified.  
He is a junior.  
Because ofan editing error, Fa­ 
ther William Beauchamp was in­ 
correctly identified in  
yesterday's article on inquiries  
by other colleges concerning  
Notre Dame's alcohol policy.  
Beauchamp is the executive as·  
sistant to the president and exec­ 
utive vice president of the  
University.  
Also in yesterday's edition, a  
story about Indiana's winter  
storm contained a reporting er­ 
ror. The story reported no power  
outages in the South Bend area.  
In fact, about 1000 homes were  
without power when a line broke  
Sunday morning east of the river  
between Angela and Jetlerson  
boulevards.  


('
, 
( The Observer Tuesday,January 22, 1985-page 4 


./ 
Many applicants fabricate resumes 
Special to The Observer 
Looking for a new job and feeling 
self-indulgent? If you fabricate your 
resume to find that job, you're 
among one-third of all job seekers 
who attempt to boost themselves in 
the eyes ofa prospective employer. 
lfyou "give" yourself an M.B.A. to boot, you've awarded yourself the most common of manufactured degrees. 
Some signs of the "ringer" are evi­dent, according to Robert Vecchio, chairman of management at Notre Dame, who addressed the problem of phony resumes in an edition of the journal Personnel published last year. 
One of the most obvious signs is 
an ambiguous resume, said Vecchio. 
Oddly phrased sections, a lot of ab­
breviations and gaps In employment 
dates should signal a warning. 
In hopes that the ambiguities will be interpreted favorably, Vecchio said, some candidates will list a num­ber ofschools they have "attended." The term may not be an out-and-out lie, but constitutes misrepresenta­tion when the candidate believes it will be Interpreted as "graduated." 
Abbreviations are another cause for caution, Vecchio said. He recalled the story ofa job candidate 
I 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
t 
r 
,.. 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r r 
r 
I 
r 
f 
In the employer's mind, USC translated into the University of Southern California. Late in the in­terview, the candidate owned up to having a degree from the University ofSouthern Colorado. Not quite the same. 
Employment dates listed with 
years but not months should also be 
questioned. Such omissions might 
imply the candidate has more past 
experience than he or she actually 
possesses. 

Vecchio said the technique might also mask the time it took to obtain a degree, past firings or worse. "Who knows, the person might have spent that time in jail," said Vecchio. 
But even though some mis­representations, such as inflating past salaries and responsibilities, might seem fairly harmless, Vecchio said the overall problem is hardly a trivial matter. 
The statistics he cites, collected by the National Credential Verifica­tion Service ofMinneapolis, indicate that employers run roughly a one in three risk of hiring a candidate who is misrepresented in some way. 
"Candidates who lose out on a job opportunity when a less qualified candidate lies are, to a large extent, victimized. Someone loses out and the career ofa qualified candidate is Coworkers and customers are also placed at risk." More extreme cases might cause serious harm, Vecchio said, using the example of an im­poster surgeon. 
But the good news is that employers can weed out most ofthe phonies by exerting some caution and, in some cases, some common sense. Vecchio suggests that employers read resumes carefully, making note's on any items to be questioned. It's also a good idea, he added, to have employees who are experts in the field scrutinize the resume and question the candidate during interviews. 
In s-ome cases, he said, candidate's skills should be tested in an on-the­job simulation. In others, transcripts should be obtained directly from an institution, not the candidate, and references should be checked by telephone or mail. However, Vec­chio added, a uniform policy for checking credentials should be developed to avoid discrimination charges. 
When fraudulence is suspected, Vecchio also suggests trapping the candidate In his or her own lie. 
The best protective measure for employers, Vecchio said, is a signed application form. Resumes normally are not signed and are not legal doc-

NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S THEATRE presents 
ENSEMBLE 
T H E A T l E·C 0 H PAN Y 
of the University of Michigan 

Two One-Act Comedies directed by Eric Fredricksen & Phillip Kerr 
CHARLIE THE CHICKEN by N.E. Simpson 
A RESOUNDING TINKLE by Jonathan Levy 
All Seals -$2.00 at the door 

8:00pm 
call 239-5048 


The Observer 
Windy City announces closing of restaurant 
feature live bands or dancing.
By MARY HEILMANN "That decision rests with the First
Senior StaffReporter 
American .li.estaurants owners. At Windy City Pastaria and Sports this time, I'm unaware of their Emporium has announced the plans." closing of the restaurant portion of As a result of the restaurant's the establishment. The bar portion closing, 32 employees lost their will remain open for business. jobs. Mighion is presently involved According to general manager in relocating those employees by Dean Mighion, the decision to close helping their applications process 
the restaurant was made by First and providing recommendations. American Restaurants Inc., which The business has retained about ten owns the business and is located in employees. 
Phoenix, Ariz. The name of the restaurant was 
"I don't think it was a question of changed in mid-1984 from Nancy's the restaurant losing money," Mig-Windy City, which it had been called hion said. "It wasn't like it was taking· since its opening in September big losses. What caused the move 1983, to Windy City Pastaria and was the opening of two new pas-Sports Emporium. tarias in Phoenix. Our kitchen Asked about the reasons for the equipment will be shipped there, change and its perceived effect on which will save the company money business, Mighion said, "We felt the since they won't have to provide change was necessary to give people new equipment. The bar remains a better perception of our menu, open in the same form as it always since we were not just a pizza place. has been." It was also done to distinguish us 
Mighion added that he does not from Nancy's of Chicago, which is know whether the bar will expand not incorporated in our company." its operations to include that part of Mighion added that it is the building which formerly housed impossible to estimate the effect of the restaurant, or of any plans to a!-the name change on the volume of ter the present establishment to the restaurant's business. 
***********************************'
! ATTENTION £ 
i SAINT MARY'S REPORTERS i 
~ AND INTERESTED STUDENTS ~ ~ There will be a mandatory meeting for all Saint~ -iC Mary's reporters, Tuesday, January 22 at 6:30 at ~ ~ The Observer's SMC office-3rd floor Haggar -i' ~ College Center. All students interested in working ~ 
• for The Observer should attend. -i'
*********************************** 
Social Concerns Seminar 
Washington, D.C. Spring Break 
INFORMATION NIGHT 
Tuesday, January 22-7 pm Center for Social Concerns 

DISNEY AUDITION TOUR·'85 
Two exciting entertainment emplorment opportunltlea. 
1. 
The ~LT DISNEY WORLD• Vacation Kingdom, near Orlando, Florida, is seeking professional Dencera, Slngera and Mualcal Theatre Actora/ActNII... Moat posltlonlare for full, one-year contracts with some summer aeasonal employment also available. Sorry, no professional instrumen­talist auditions. 

2. 
The ~LT DISNEY WORLD Vacation Kingdom and DISNEY· LAND• (located in Anaheim, California) are auditioning for the All Amertcan College Marching Band for each Par1<, plua, the All American College Orcheetra to perform at EPCOT Canter. These positions are for summerlong employment, 


~ning June 3 andconcluding on August 17. Audition Requirement&: Talent: Must be 18 years d age byJune 1, 1985. College: Must be 18 years old/fuiHime college Freshman, 
Sophomore, orJunior. Audition Sit•: Chicago, IL TALENT AUDI110N: COLLEGE MUSICIANS: January 27, 1985 February 2 -3, 1985 Columbia College DePaul University Theatre/Music Center Fine Arts Building 
•11th Street Theatre" 804 W. Belden 62 E. 11th Street Audition Calt 9 a.m.· 5 p.m. AuditlonCalt Female 10a.m. 
Male2 p.m. For additional audition requlrementlandlor further lntonn.tlon, pl....call Dian~ Audition Tour '85. (3015) 824-5478. EST. 

The Observer/Pete Laches 
program from Kate Dascenzo, assistant director of the Career andPlacement Setvlces. Story below. 
Computer gives career information 
ByVIC SCIULLI parts: learning about yourself, Senior StaffReporter searching for occupations, learning about occupations and searching for 
Are you still not sure what you'd educational institutions. The user like to do in life? Are you still won­can select any category to work on dering whether or not graduate and can take as much time as he or school in genetic engineering is she wants to finish the session. right for you? Have you found out all the career possibilities for your In the "Learning About Yourself' major? part of the program, a 90 question 
If you answered "no " to any of "value inventory test " allows stu­these questions you may want to dents to rate different types ofactivi­stop by the Career and Placement ties. After the test the computer Services Office and visit their new responds with a graphic representa­career guidance program appropri­tion of all the occupations in the ately called DISCOVER. United States called the World of 
DISCOVER is a computer Work Map. The area or areas of the software package that allows users map that are closest. to the person's to learn more about their interests interests are noted on the map. The and skills, as well as occupations and user can then list all the careers educational opportunities. which fall in his or her area of the The guidance program has four map. 
iJOHN MARSHALL ~ -! 
: LAW SCHOOL ':~~~~~~·.~.:, :
. .
. ~~·· 

; 1393 Peachtree·"!·· N.E. Atlanta, GA 30309 ~·l·~·;:~:r.· f
. ,.
. •· 

: APPLICATIONS TAKEN NOW , \J:; :February, June, September Admissions ; .: Day or J;:vening Classes ,...... ;
. .
~ 

• John Marshall Law School admits without regard ;i to national or ethnic origin ; 
; APPROVED FOR VETERANS : ; Graduationfrom John Marshall meets the : • requirementsfor admissivn to the Bar •
• •;
: Examination in Georgia and Indiana ONLY : (404) 872-3593
......•.•.................•...............•...•:• 


ENROLL NOW!! 
Notre Dame TaeKwonDo Club 

FIRST CLASS FREE!! 
TONIGHT January22 
7: p.m. 
Before the actual "guidance ses­sion" begins t:l}_e !:Omputer asks the user his or her social security num­ber, name and educational status. The computer uses the social secur­ity number as a means of identifica­tion for that session. If the user wants to save his responses to the different tests he may do so. The data is stored on a 10 megabyte fixed disk which is part of the system. 
DISCOVER also has a section use­ful for searching for colleges, graduate as well as undergraduate. Th~ program can be asked to search for colleges according to character­istics desired by the user as well as provide information about a college already in mind. 
The DISCOVER program, which is also run out of the Student Health Center, is open to all students. Inter­ested students can go the Career and Placement Service Office in the Memorial library basement and ask to use the program anytime during office hours. 
Senate 
continued/rampage 1 
colleges all the time on thingS like the constitution," and the confer­ence would also facilitate an ex­change of ideas. Subjects such as freshman orientation and student activities will be discussed. 
Student Senator Javier Oliva said an "Off-Campus Week" will be held soon. "It's primarily an information event," he said, adding "we're not trying to promote people to leave:' Information will include sample housing contracts, talks from repre­sentatives of Campus View, lists of available -ousing, and other helpful information. The date has not yet been set, but should be before housing contracts are due (Februay 4th). 
Rules for student body elections were clarified by Maher Mouasher, Ombudsman Election Chairman. He said an informational meeting will take place on the 29th of January, with a mandatory meeting following two days later. Mouasher will be holding office hours in the OBUD of­fice from 12 to 2 pm next week to answer any questions. 
Bertino said "one ofthe things we tried to do is avoid the problems of last year," which centered around write-in candidates. He summed up the new rule changes by saying "If you plan on running for anything, you better meet the deadline." 
A motion submitted by Student Senate Parlimentarian Brian Holst was unanimously approved for con­sideration. The motion was a wor­ding change to the constitution which involves adding senators to the list of those who can be im­peached by a two-thirds vote of the senate. 



~i~~~_()__i_Jl___t_________________Th_esd~ay-,J-an-uary._22~,19~8-5~p~ag~e6 
Today's concern seems to be making the most 
Recently, Newsweek magazine ran a cover story about the "yuppie" in American society. This new group (young urban professionals) displays a tremendous concern and interest in personal wealth and gain. Reading the article, 
Brian McKeon 
reflecting 
one gains the feeling that these people (if you believe those interviewed are representative) have a great love of both money and them­selves. 

I 
One "yuppie" interviewed for the article best epitomized the feelings of her grouup politically. This past election, the young wo­man (age 25) explained, was the first time that "I had to think about my pocketbook." An ad­mirer of President Reagan "for financial reasons," but an opponent of the Republican stances on abortion and other social issues, she eventually voted for Mondale. However, there's more to her story that you ought to know. "I knew Reagan would win easily 
r Uke new years, new semesters invariably bring with them a list of resolutions aimed at the self-betterment of the student. They can
f include anything from a vow to never again
r 
fall six weeks behind in one's cla~ses to a com-

r 
John Neblo 
outside, looking in 
mitment to lose those ten pounds you swore 
you would not gain at the beginning of the 
previous semester. 
As a senior, I have had seven such opportu­nities to make (and then break) new semester resolutions. I remember the second semester offreshman year, swearing to get anA in cal­culus, followed by a sophomore year resolu­tion to never look at another differential 

~ 
anyway," she said. "IfI thought it was a close election, I might not have voted for Mondale. I had the best of both worlds. I could vote my conscience and still come out ahead finan­cially." 
Well, now there's someone with some firm convictions. She didn't really want Mondale to win, but, because of the President's expected landslide, she was able to ease her conscience. Makes you proud to be an American, doesn't it? 
Ibe yuppies may not be the only group focusing their lives on their wallets. An annual survey ofcollege freshmen conducted jointly by UCLA and the American Council on Educa­tion showed that materialism among fresh­men is on the rise. Nearly 68 percent said that a "very important" reason for attending col­lege was "to be able to make more money." Comparatively, only SO percent felt that way in I971. In addition, being financially well off has jumped from ninth place in I970 to 
second place among personal values ex­pressed by survey participants. 
A great number of college students are not satisfied with making more· money. They want to do even better than that. Last week, in a class I have since dropped, the professor asked how many in the class wanted "to make as much money as they possibly could." A majority of hands went up. The professor didn't seem very surprised. 
Why the preoccupation in our society with making a lot of money? Admittedly, money gives a person a certain independence. But to make as much as you possibly can? That seems to be little more than self-serving. 
Some people, when nagged by their con­sciences about the disproportionate distribu­tion ofwealth in this country, shrug it off as a necessity of capitalism and point to Christ, who said that "there will always be poor among us." The Catholic bishops have been ridiculed recently by numerous commen­tators for attacking the economic system of the United States. The critics were shocked that the bishops would challenge capitalism. Michael Novak, a leading conservative lay Catholic, said ofthe bishops' criticisms of"our punitive attitude toward the poor" that "like the Democrats in San Francisco, they always blame America first." Who, as Leon Wieseltier of the New Republic correctly puts it, should 

be blamed for American hunger and American homelessness? 
America has always been a country which prides itself on "rugged individualism." Today, a new breed ofindividuals is emerging, one which aspires to the acquisition of vast amounts of wealth. Is this healthy for our country? Not when this pursuit of money and material gain seems to be the primary purpose for living. This new breed of "yuppies" wants to have their cake and eat it too. Concerned mainly about themselves, they lack any con· cept of social conscience and responsiblility to the community. 
Some historians say that the period of the 1960's and 1970's was one which tore at the social fabric of society. However, the period also saw great social change which altered our country permanently. This new generation, characterized by an evident "me-first" mindset, may do more harm to society than the movers of the past two decades. Taking their share from the society without giving anything back, without caring for the "have­nots," is oflittle benefit to society. 
Brian McKeon is a senior government major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

,.. Last semester resolution may be easiest to keep 
equation for as long as I live. Junior year I re­solved to wake up early, take morning classes, and have my homework finished before din­ner time. In the second semester I vowed never again to take a class before I 0: I 0 a.m. In the fall of this year, I decided to take full ad­vantage of my last year of formal education and signed up for I8 hours ofclasses. This se­mester I've promised myselfno more than I2. 
Yet despite this long history of broken resolutions and otherwise futile attempts at self-betterment, I once again intend to make a resolution as my last semester at Notre Dame begins. Yes, I am aware that I have never suc­cessfully followed through with my previous resolutions, and no, I do not take a perverse sense of satisfaction in repeated failure. In­stead, I have found the perfect resolution: one I will enjoy fulfilling. 
The problem with past resolutions, as l see it, is that the resolution has always been 

~ r r P.O.BoxQ 
r 
r 
r Is the Credit Union 
r 
r a friend or enemy
r 
Dear Editor: 

r 
What is the purpose of. the Notre Dame

r 
r Credit Union..._to serve the Notre Dame com­munity or to make inordinant interest on its apparently immobile and captive market? 
Recently, the Credit Union has adopted in­creasingly restrictive and arguably confis­catory policies with regard to deposits of checks, namely the "21-day hold". At first this policy only applied to the deposit of out-of­state checks for over S200. This was incon­venient hut probably reasonable in light ofthe amount involved. But upon returning from Christmas break with checks to deposit for less than 5200 I learned the infamous "2I-day hold" had been extended: it was changed to include any out-of-state personal check over S50 which is not covered by the member's current account balance. This is unreasona­ble. The majority of out of state personal checks deposited by Notre Dame students are

r 
from the students' parents. Does the Credit Union mistrust our parents? 

With bills due, in need of cash, and nearly too angry to speak I took my checks to a nearby Notre Dame competitor, Valley Ameri­can Bank. There I was not greeted with lines and inflexible policies but prompt, courteous service and a management willing to listen. Within a few moments I had opened a new account and had deposited my checks -with­out the "21-day hold". 
How can the Credit Union justify its hold policy when major banks in the area, with less ties to the University community, do not need to tie up these deposits at all? Has the Credit Union found some lucrative 21-day interest­bearing certificates to invest in? Surely it does not take three weeks to clear a check if cash flow is what they are worried about. 
My hassles with the Credit Union are over. I have a new bank. Perhaps if more students do the same the Notre Dame Credit Union will get the message, terminate its "2I-day hold" policy and return to the business of serving the Notre Dame community. 
Edward]. Rolwes Notre Dame Law Student 
negative in nature. It has always required giving up ere, or something I enjoy or per­forming some task which I dislike. Finally, it occured to me to choose a resolution that both warrants my time and energy, and that I will find enjoyable to do. Hence, for the spring semester of I985 I resolve to spend less time studying and more time socializing with friends. 

This simple but worthwhile resolution, however, is not nearly as frivolous as it seems. I have good reason for such a resolution and, at the terrible risk of appearing maudlin in print shall explain. 
I and my fellow seniors will be graduating in exactly II7 days. While for some ofus gradua­tion day cannot come too soon, for all seniors life as we have known it over the past four years will come to an abrubt end on May I9. For better or for worse, there will be no more Notre Dame football weekends, tailgaters, An 
Tostal celebrations, or SYR's; no more quarter 
beer nights at Senior Bar, off-campus parties, 
or illicit dorm social "gatherings." But most of 
all, there will be no more Notre Dame frater­
nity. On May I9, the class of I98S will be scat­
tered across the nation, distributed amongst 
countless professional schools and corpora­
tions. Never again will the class of '85 be to­
gether in the same place at the same time. 
No doubt the pressure to do well in school is great and as a result it becomes easy to let the demands ofdaily class work dominate our attention. A resolution to spend time with friends recognizes and appreciates what is best at Notre Dame. It is also a resolution worth keeping. 
We have the rest of our lives to get ahead, but only II7 more days at Notre Dame. 
john Neblo is a senior economics major and a regular Viewpoint columnist 


=--=The Observer-= Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . ... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor . . . . Mark Worsctleh Controller . ....... . . Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor . . ...... Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager . . . Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily News Editor . . . Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Satnt Mary's Editor . . . Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager. . .. Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Editor. . ........ Michael Sullivan Production Manager. ........ Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Viewpoint Editor . . Dave Grote Project Manager . . . .. Amy Stephan present the views ot their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor. Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying op1nions on campus, through letters. Photo Editor. . .. Pete Laches Founded November 3,1966 is encouraged. 
-----------------------------~---......... 


Accent 

Tuesday,Jan~ary 22, 1985-page 7 
An apple for teacher, an 'Apple' for student 
made the Mac easy to learn. It's 
small size ( 13 1/2 by 10 1/2 by 9 1/2) is less imposing than other
by Vic Sciulli 
features staff writer 

F
personal computers. A "mouse", a small unit attached to the machine rom out ofthe depths of the as an office computer. Despite its allows a user to operate the Macin­Silicon Valley they came. With state of the art graphic capabilities, tosh without a keyboard simply by their beige compact bodies and power and ease ofuse, Usa never moving the mouse on a tabletop dark faces they spread slowly at first had the chance to live up to its and clicking the button when the until it seemed like they were expectations. Aprohibitively high desired command is pointed to. everywhere. Since their arrival they price (just under $10,000) and the With its Macwrite and Macpaint have succeeded in changing the failure to capture a significant por­software the Macintosh is able to working habits of many students. tion ofthe office computer market combine sophisticated 
J 
Notre Dalne would never be the dominated by IBM contributed to wordprocessing with graphic capa­same again. Usa's very low sales. bilities. More importantly the 
For those ofyou who haven't Macintosh was designed with Macintosh is capable ofrunning j gotten over the movie yet, I'm not many of the same features as the application programs like spread­talking about Gremlins. What I am Usa but with less power and sheets and databases as well as talking about is a computer, the features and with an aim to capture languages like BASIC and Pascal. Macintosh personal computer from a greater share of the personal Ken Frysztak, an RA in Stanford Apple. And it does seem to be turn· computer market. (Apple stills sells who bought his Macintosh last May, ing up in a lot ofdifferent places more personal computers than any said he has not been dissatisfied these days. ofits competitors.) with the Macintosh. 'I like its ease of 
A great deal ofpublicity sur­Some critics called the "Mac" use, the pull down windows and rounded the introduction ofthe with it's "mouse" more ofa toy than mouse. You don't have to spend a 
Kris Goldschmidt explains Apple Computers to a potential customer. 
Macintosh last year. In 1982 the a computer. Indeed there were lot oftime upfront learning it. You Apple Corporation had introduced many new features never seen can get right into it without reading staffofNotre Dame and Saint popular software sold. The other Usa, which was promoted primarily before on a personal computer that manuals." Mary's. peripherals do not sell as fast, Mid· 
Frysztak said he bought the com­Several classes at the University dendorfsaid. Printing cartridges, puter for three reasons: his career now use the Macintosh. The floppy disks and paper are also sold. after college, family business and Introduction to Computer Systems All Macintoshes sold have 128K for work in school. He currently andlntroduction to Pascal in the ofinternal mewory but a memory uses the Multiplan spreadsheet Computer Applications department expansion to 512K is available for program and is hoping to buy a involve programming on the Macin­5912. The larger memory will allow modem and a communication tosh. the Macintosh to run software software package soon. Jill MiddendorfofGeneral Micro packages like Lotus which require 
"I had problems with the logic said that since:: their introduction larger memory. board but it was serviced excel­last February the store has sold The store also sells other Apple lently," he said. approxoimately 2000 Macintoshes. products, including the Lisa and the 
Although he believes the Macin­The n 197 price, discounted 50 new Apple lie. tosh has made things much easier percent from its retail price, in­Students who buy the Macintosh for him, he doesn't think it gives cludes the Macintosh computer have a 90 day limited warranty. him advantages over students who itselfand the Macwrite/Macpaint They may also purchase a special don't own a computer. "For me the software. Peripherals for the Mac service contract that covers cost Macintosh allows me to write more include a printer, external disk and labor for 15 months ifit is pur­easily but some people just work drive, numeric keypad and chased within ninety days ofthe better writing their paper out, modems. Middendorfsaid all perip­Macintosh. 1fit is purchased after editing and then typing it. It all herals and software sold for the 90 days, the contract covers 12 depends on the person." Macintosh are discounted as part of months. 
General Micro opened a store in the arrangement. Students can For those ofyou want to buy a the basement ofLaFortune to sell order software ifit is not in the Macintosh but don't have the the Macintoshes and other "Apples" store. money-relax. Middendorfsaid the to the public. The store was part of Middendorfsaid the printer and special agreement will last until a special deal arranged by the Uni­the external drive are the most February, 1987. But don't wait too versity to sell the Macintoshes at popular peripherals while long: alumni are not included in the special rates to students, faculty and Microsoft's BASIC is the most special agreement. 




L_____________________________________________---­
--~~ --­



Sports Briefs 

Bengal Bouts trainingcontinues today and every 
day at .3:4S p.m. in the boxing room at the ACC. Anyone who is 
interested may attend; no experience is necessary. -The Observer 

Interhall basketball officials wm be meeting 
Thursday at 4:30 p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC. -The Obsen'er 
An agility and fitness program will start 
today. Participants will meet every Tuesday and Thursday from 5:30 
p.m. to 6:4S p.m. Anyone who is interested should attend the meeting today at 5:.30 p.m. in the Football Auditorium at the ACC. ­
The Obsen1er 

Downhill skiing trips are being sponsored by NVA on four consecutive Tuesdays, beginning today. The cost ofall four trips is $62, which includes transportation, equipment, lift tickets and lessons. Participants must register and pay in advance at the NVA office.-The Obsen1er 
The ND women's track team is looking for volunteers to help at its home meet on Friday, Feb. 1. Anyone who is interested should call Patty at 283-4072 or Anne at 283-2646.-The Obsen1er 
Tuesday, january 22, 1985-page 8 
Bookstore BasketballCommissioner Jeff Blumb is accepting applications for the position of Assistant Commissioner. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's freshman or sophomore may pick up an application in the Student Government Office on the second floor ofLaFortune. All applications must be returned to the office by Friday. -The Observer 
Cross-country skiing events are being 
sponsored by NVA. On Saturday there will be a novice clinic, onJan. 29 there will be an advanced clinic, on Jan. 29 and Feb. 8 there will be "moonlighters" at night, on Feb. 2 there will be a day tour, and on Feb 9 there will be a day ofraces. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Afl Indoor track meetis being organized by NVA. Ibe entry deadline is tomorrow. For more information, call the NVA office at 2 39-6100. -The Observer 
lnterhall volleyball tournaments are 
being organized by NVA. The entry deadline for both the men's and women's tournaments is tomorrow. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Observer 
Stretchercise and Aerobics Classes are 
being held by NVA. The classes begin this week. For more informa­tion, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 9 
Knee injury sidelines Roundfield 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -A knee injury requir­ing surgery will keep Detroit Pistons forward Dan Roundfield off the court for up to four weeks, a spokes­man for the National Basketball As­sociation team said yesterday. 
Roundfield, a 6-foot-8 starter, tore cartilage in his left knee in the second quarter of 'Jbursday's I 05­89 victory over the New York Knicks, spokesman Matt Dobeck said. 
The date and location of the oper­ation have yet to be determined, he added. 
Roundfield, a former Indiana Pacer who has averaged I 1.8 points and 8.5 rebounds per game this season, played Saturday despite the injury. A doctor in Roundfield's home town, Atlanta, determined surgery was necessary, the spokes­man said. 

The Obsen•er Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of l.al:'onunt· Student Center. accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.• Monday through Friday. The Obsert•er Saint Mary's office. located on the third t1oor of Haggar College Center. at'l'c:pts dassifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next·day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid, either in person or lw mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five t·harac·


Classifieds 
ters erda·. 

-
LOST: A Blue LEVI's Jean Jacket (Size lm going to ILLINOIS STATE or U of I this 
BETIER THAN I ASKED -THANKS ST ---SOPHOMORESIIII---Skaling Party­
40) at Corby's on Friday Jan. 18th. It friday. Need riders. Call Jim at 1620. 
JUDE Wednesday, Jan. 23, at the ACC rink.
L--_No_T_IC_E_s____..l I LOST/FOUND 
found Please call Mike at1223. 
From 10:15 to 12;15pm Only $1 lor ren­Need ride to I.U. Bloomington 1/25 Will 
GUYS: VALENTINES DAY IS RIGHT tals: come and bring your friends! 
ATIENTION: LOST, atSeniorBar-1 dark share expenses-call Linda 3749. 
AROUND THE CORNER. WHY NOT Sponsored by the Class of '87 
grey overcoat, with a brown/ black zip-in 

BUY THAT SPECIAL GIRL TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8897 liner. Anyone who was at the private party 
"EQUILIBRIUM STAGE SEPARATION To Shiela and Mary Kim, Thanks lor the
I .--­

Tuesday night ( January 15) who may FOR RENT .. -------. 
OPERATIONS" OR "FUNDAMENTALS great time we had at our Christmas SYR. 
TYPING have accidently taken it please call me at 

OF ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY?" FOR "Meet The Press" was tun, too. We'll have 
L---------~..... I FOR SALE
Jackie Boggs 283-1156. or else return it to the Senior 

SALE CALL MIKE 3336 to do it aga1n soon or maybe we'll run into684-8793 bar lost-and found. TWO.FOUR MAN APARTMENT TO 
'-·-----------.J 

................................. you again at the library and you can say,
SUBLEASE ................ -. ..................... 
Marc Ramirez -Madder Than Mad In '85 'Hi'. We're having another SYR soon so 
LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETIER JACKET, FLOPPY DISKS 4 SALE maybe we'll give you a call. On secondSPRING BREAK in Daytona Beach from BLUE AND BLACK WITH NAME ON FEB-MAY ' yavotd bookstore ripoff MORRISSEY LOAN FUND thought. save us the trouble and just call 
$89, South Padre from $78, Mustang Is­INSIDE POCKET. MISPLACED AT ONLY $1.50 per. Call John 3592 
Student Loans $2Q-200 1I Interest 30 up those two guys from St. Ed's. Daneland/Port Aransas $119, Steamboat BRIDGED'S TUESDAY EVENING OR LOCIIted behind Turtle Creek off of ............................................................ 
Days and Steve Springs skiing from $79. HURRY "Break EARLY WEDNESDAY MORNING. Edlaon. Within 1 mile from NO. Seml­Why RENT when its cheaper to BUY? 
Basement LaFortune from the Books" call Sunchase Tours toll PLEASE RETURN , NO QUESTIONS lurnlahed, quiet, apacloua, Cozy house three blocks from campus is 
11:30-12:30 M-F MDC: Who is embarrassing who now? My tree lor more 1ntorma-lion 1-BD0-321-ASKED. CALL J.R. REID AT 277-7561. reaaon~~bfell Cell Dorene at 277-1306 tor sale. Call234-0465 for details. 
lace can get red too, you know. 
5911 or contact a Sunchase Campus or LIN Marla •t 23&-5313 to leave Representative or your local Travel LOST; TAN LUGGAGE BAG with blue meuage. ...................................... 
TLII
Agency TODAY! straps; may have been left outside Regina BOOKS FOR SALE: CELL BIOLOGY BY ·······················•·········•···• Hall:contains mostly sweaters and WANTED -Female housemate for a 4-KARP AND HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. Ted Smith tor God. As a Republican, of EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL jeans:it found please call 283-2545. bedroom home located 10 minutes from CALL3336. 
course. MRS. COKER, 233-70011. campus. $150 per month includes , LOST: Men's high school class ring utilities. 239-5930 or 291-9644 8' x 12' rust carpet, gOOd condition, 1 yr. ATIN. ALL JUNIORS: It still interested in 
AMERICAN RED CROSS 
before break. Silver with blue cut stone. old, reg. pile, $45; Ask tor David, x4358. JPW Cabaret/Talent Show, call John Initials on the inside. II you have found it, ROOMATE wanted to share 3 bedroom Cerabino at 3320 by Tuesday, January 
AFRICAN RELIEF CAMPAIGN 
NEED TYPING, CALL DOLORES 277-call Dave at 3049. Reward. apt. 3 miles fror.1 campus. $117/month 22!! 6045 including utilities. Call 288-1072 PICK UP AND DEUVERY Lost: My I.D., my driver's liscence. and 
Membera ol the American Red Croee(heavy Sigh) my senior bar card all TICKETS ROOM FURNISHINGS! encased in that green thing lor !.D.'s. It you have a decent rug or couch that will be collecting donatlone todey In 
the dining h•ll• •nd your dorm. Plane WhereIa Gino's East? UP 4 2057. 
Please help me · I'm getting hungry! Call THINKING OF LIVING O.C.? APT. you want to get rid of, please call Dan at 
give generoualy.

Mo. 3624. AVAILABLE NOW FOR TO NEED SYRACUSE BASKETBALL TICK­PEOPLE. FUUY FURNISHED, 2 
............................. 
ETS DESPRATEL Ylll! PLEASE CALL TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-6897 IF YOU LOST GLOVES IN ROOM 356 BATHROOMS-CALL PATRICK AT3185 277-8497 To Goober, FITZPATRICK,CALL NAJI AT IF INTERESTED. How are you dear, darling, Cempua CruNde lor Crom
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR 1743.PROPER IDENTIFICATION OF NEED 6 Syracuse GA's. Call Steve1163 aweelheart, pookle-bear? 
$44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERK­GLOVES IS REQUIRED. Need a place to live? How 'bout a SPA­will hold an organizational meeting this Want to go to Chicago an MEHT? GET THE FACTS TOOAYI CIOUS 2BR,2B DWELLING vary close to NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR SYRACUSE GAME. saturday? Call me. Sorry to
Friday at midnight. Meet at the bottom o1 CALL 1-312-742-1142 EXT. 7318. FOUND: IMITATION RHINESTONE campus? U need thisapmt! Call Pat3185 CAUx2073. the lake. Call Mortis for details ... bother you. NECKLACE BEHIND POST OFFICE ED.D TYPING AVAILABLE BEFORE BREAK. CALL 277-6740 TO DO 4 SEXY WOMEN INTEREST YOU? m~$$$··Nii'Eci3..s~fiAcusii 287-40112 IF INTERESTED IN LIVING ACROSS HAPPY BIRTHDAY J.A. 
CLAIM YOUR PRECIOUS GEMS. GA'S. WILL PAY GOOD MONEY. CALL 
THE HALL FROM THEM .... CALL PAUL You showed up 20 yrs. ago today and !he 
MARY BETH AT 3723. LOST: MY DARK GREY-BLACK TWEED AT 2545 ... YOU'LL THANK ME!! 
FREDFREDFRED world hasn't been the samo since! Never a dull moment... Best wishes, Paul 
LONG OVERCOAT ... STILL!!! IF YOU HELP! Need 2 NO-Syracuse tix. Call FOUND IT PLEASE CALL JIM AT 283-1570. 
ASPEN!!!ASPENI!IASPENIII TYPING 
SPRING BREAK '85 What do NO women like most about NO JACKIE BOGGS 
1156, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. LOST 

CALL MIKE AT 283-3573 OR LARRY AT men? Their lobotomy scars' 684-8713 
AT SENIOR BAR DURING THE NEED:2 TIX FOR EITHER 283-3630 FOR INFO. 
PRIVATE PARTY LAST TUESDAY. AND WANTED SYRACUSE,BYU OR WASH 
I'M GETIING PRETIY COLD!!! GAMES.CALL 2165 Dav1d Burger...what a body -and there lntro. to Computer Syateme 
Lost-on 12/t6/84, in 116 O'Shag, a Need ride to New Orleans lor Christmas seems to be so much more of it lately. 
Vote lor David as Hoosier of the Year FOR SALE: Business Computer SystemsWe n.d your help! 
watch with a whiteface, Roman numerals Break. Can leave anytime alter Decem­
and a black strap. II found, please call ber 20. Call Paul COLLECT at (312)388-1985. textbook by Kroenke, along with study 2634. The watch was a graduation pres­6458. PERSONALS guida. A $30.00 value .... get it today tor OMBUDSMAN 
$18.00. Call Mark at 2045. ORGANIZATIONAL 
ent and is of great sentimental value. 

DEPENDABLE PART-TIME WAITRESS AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! 
MEETING Lbs:r;·o;,·~··;;;;.~:~;;~~;;;;·ii;;;d·;;;;;;;;;;;·;;;;: WANTED. MUST BE 21. FOR APPT., PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234­tween Lewis and the Credit Union... II CALL 289-803t, ORIGINAL CONEY IS­0363. 24 hour hotiine/lree pregnancy test CAVANAUGH HALL PRODUCTIONS

Wed,_..y JllnullfY 23, 7:30PM 

found please call Anne 2624 LAND REST. available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER PRESENTS
Roorn 20 LaFortune 

AUDITIONS COURIERS WANTED I "LOST": One long, black. wool coat. II you ROOMMATE WANTED vou· i-iAviiA'.8E:,i;iJriFiJL.Eioov..AN'i:i lor the charity production of Neil Simon's "found" It in the Commons last Mon. night, ROOMMATE WANTED ARE WORTH THE WORLD BAREFOOT IN THE PARK The Observer is looking tor a depend­would you please return it to the Lost and ROOMMATE WANTED All WOMEN and all CAVANAUGH MEN able person to picll up a packet al the Found in the Ad. Min. Bldg? II you're not ROOMMATE WANTED When is !his test ever going to end? are invited to audition at Roorn 123 or 127 South Bend Tribune (downtown) five days wilhng to do so. would you at least return In HlEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ..8:30 a weal< (Tuesday-Friday &Sunday). You my room key, mittens or any other item JAM-MAY K.T.Hll p.m. MONDAY or TUESDAY may picll up the packet anytime In the af­
AMERICAN RED CROSS you do not desire to keep? It's a COLD Tom AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! AUDI­ternoon. and you must deliver It to the world out there. but I'm trying to keep a Located behind Turtle Creek ott ol TIONS! Observer offices before 6:00 p.m. This

~CANREUEFCAMPAIGN 

warm heart about It! Edl~. Within 1 mile lrom NO. Seml-sounds right out of James Bond, right? tumlehad, quiet, ~loua, LAMBCHOP Well, it's not, it's easy, and it's a paid polli­FOUND: STUDENT BASKETBALL reuonablell TRANSPORTATION But the pubs are great! A little boy stares tion. You must have your own transporta­
Membera oA the A.,_,can Red Croea 
TICKETS (LOWER ARENA) AT SENIOR NEEDEOI Cell C.ol ..277-1306. through a bakery window: tion, however. For more information, call will be collecting donatlona todliy In 
BAR ON THURSDAY. CAU CAROLYN Tough lri.OO.IMI longer. There are no jelly donuiS Mark Worscheh at The Observer. 23&­the dining helle-your dorm. Pleue 
AT 277-4324 TO CLAIM THEM. ROOMATE WANTED TO SHARE for you today. only death. 5303. An equal opportunity employer. 
give generou81y. 
THREE BEDROOM HOUSE TWO INTERESTED IN SOME HIGHT WORKI LOST: Key chain with 4 or 5 keys lost at MILES FROM CAMPUS. $92 per Join The ObMrvw prOduction depwt­Soph. Super Bowt party. Key holder is MONTH plus util. CAU DAN :239-7666 ment. Layout ataff people work 2 hourw RICH-_ HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY!! Erotica Zarf, 
The New York Times! It's not 1oo late to black and gold. Has 324 mail key. Call DAYS, 234-7412 EVE'S. per WMk. Opportunity tor lldv•~ REMEMBER ME WHILE YOU'RE OUT Saturdat night was great -we must get order the New York Times lor campus 
Mark at 3828 It found. ment. Stop up to our Notre O.me olftce HAVING FUN!! -YOUR UNDER-21 AD­together again. See you (maybe?) !hie delivery. The New York Times, the world's NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND ON MIRER
•nd till out•n IIPPIIcatlon. weekend. greatens! newspaper win be delivered to 
LOST: N.D. ID CASE WITH SCHOOLID, WEEKEND OF FEB. 2,3. CAN POS­your room, office. carroll, department, IND DRIVER'S LICENSE, AND OTHER SIBLY LEAVE THURSDAY. CALL MIKE 
SAVE MONEY!! PURCHASE YOUR Gumby: HAPPY BIRTHDAY YOU A "Days Inn IV"guestmailbox or •ny other place on campus at AT 1688.
VALUABLES.IF FOUND, PLEASE CON­TEXTS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS.937 CRAZY ME!! WAKA! WAKA! love yal30/ oil the newstaand price. Contact 
TACT LESLIE AT: 283-4648. REWARD SOUTH BENDAVE.,NEXTTO CORBY'S -Haef. HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THE George Devenny at 145 Stanford 283-OFFERED. PURDUE!! I NEED A RIDE TO PURDUE 
BAR. 233-2342. YELLOW SUB AT 272-4453. MO. TH 8­2094. THIS WEEKEND (JANUARY 25 OR 26)!! 
t 1pm FR-SA 8pm-1am Lost Black Wallet, call Steve 5759 IF YOU ARE PLANNING A ROADTRIP, MAKE MONEY II SELL YOUR CLASS SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS appli­
Reward PLEASE CALL "SUSAN" AT PHONE BOOKS TO PANDORA'S FOR $$ OR Gumby: HAPPY BIRTHDAY YOU DAN, CHRIS, DA.BOB, SHANK, AND cation deadline IS February 1. More info at 3570! 
CREDIT I PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 CRAZY ME!! WAKA! WAKAI love ya! THE GUYS FROM MIAMI, Center for Social Concerns' 
LOST Single Strand PEARL NECKLACE SO.BEND AVE. 233-2342. -Haef. THANKS FOR A GREAT WEEKEND. on campus PLEASE CALL Jodie 1669 NEED RIDE TO U OF IU. THIS YOU SURE KNOW HOW TO HELP US Got some spare time 1n the afternoons? WEEKEND. CAU MARK AT 1133. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, 
UNDERCLASSWOMEN -Anyone inter­CELBRATE NOW THAT COMPS ARE > Want to make some money? See the ad in 
HELP!! has anyone found basketball tick­CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ested in helping with a Girl Scout Troop ? OVER. LET'S GET PSYCHED FOR OUR "Peraonala" under the heading eiS tor bleacher section 102 (I think)?? NEED riders anywhere toward Green­ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Thursdays 2:30-5:00. Contact LORI283-LAST SEMESTER!! LOVE, THE 'COURIERS WANTED'Ior more info ... PLEASE call Dave 1245 or 1352 ville. S.C. weel<end ol Jan.26 call2360 t345. 
SMCers 




The Observer Tuesday, january 22, 1985 -_page 9 
Briefs 
continued from page 8 
Doubles racquetball tournaments are 
being organized by NVA. There also will be a doubles handball tournament. The entry deadline for all of the tournaments is tomorrow. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100.­The Obseroer 
Ascuba-divingcourseis beingsponsored by NVA. A meeting for anyone interested will be held Thursday, Jan. 24 at 6 
p.m. in Rockne room 219. -The Obseroer 
A bowling league is being organized by NVA. Four­member teams will compete on four Monday nights, beginningJan. 
28. Rosters with a minimum ofseven members must be submitted to the NVA office by Friday, Jan. 25.-The Obseroer 
NCAA basketballtournamentticketsfor 
the Southeast Regional games to be played at the ACC on March 14 and 16 will go on sale soon. Season-ticket holders may purchase tickets beginning Feb. 1. Students may purchase tickets with the general public beginning Feb. 11. -The Obseroer 

Now that you've registered for your required courses, it's time to choose your electives. 

With Domino's Pizza, choos-•. ing your electives isn't easy. · Because we've got so many fresh, mouthwatering. 
toppings. But once  
you make your  ..i  
choice, we'll custom  ·· .  
make your pizza. And  

deliver it to your door, FREE. All in 30 minutes. Guaranteed. 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS™ 

FREE. 
277-2151 
Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend 
0 Pepperoni 

0 Green Peppers 
0 Mushrooms 
D Onions 
D Ham 
D Sausage 

D Ground Beef 
D Olives 

D Double Cheese 
D Extra Thick Crust D The Vegi™ 
5 items for the price of 4: 

Onions, Green Peppers, Mushrooms, 
Olives and Extra Cheese 

D Domino's Deluxe 
5 items for the price of 4: Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppern and Sausage 
D The Price Destroyer™ 
Limited portions of 9 items for the price of 5: Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppern, Sausage, Ground Beef, Olives, Ham, and Extra Cheese 
Free Domino's Pizza Soft 
Flyer with any pizza pur­
chase. One coupon per pizza. 
Good while supplies last. 
Umited delivery area. 
Fast, Free DeliverylM 
L 
® JTC NA 120/1700-16 ©1965 Domino's Pizza. Inc. • 
----------------------· 
Patrick takes over 
Brooks fired by struggling Rangers 
team vice president. Brooks, the mastermind of the 1980 U.S. Olym­pic team's gold medal performance at f..ake Placid, N.Y., compiled a 131­113-41 record with the Rangers. 
But so far this season, the team was just 15-22-8 and in fifth place in the Patrick Division. The team has been hit by a rash of injuries to star players but also has performed in­consistently all year. 
In the Pacten, St. Ed's and Sorin have both gotten off to fast starts at 3-0. St. Ed's has beaten Grace (2-1); Flanner (1-2); and Fisher (0-3). Flanner, Fisher, and Stanford ( 2-1) have all fallen at the hands of Sorin. Although both of these teams have unblemished records to this point, Grace and Stanford will make some noise before the season is com­pleted. St. Ed's and Sorin met last night and The Obseroer will have results of this game and many other important "A" League games in Thursday's paper. 
Fencers 
continuedfrompage 12 
"Our epee team has fenced out of their mind," said DeCicco. "Last year, ifwe had the team that we have this year, we'd go undefeated." 
In the foil, the Irish are also strong with 1984 national champion Higgs­Coulthard. The sophomore who went 43-6 in his first year is cur­rently 13-1 with a gold medal in the USFA Open under his belt. 
According to DeCicco, junior co­captain VanderVelden may be the best or at least one ofthe best in the country. Lifetime, he maintains a 66­28 record ( 3 2-8 in 1984). This year, he is 10-4. With his injury two weeks ago, he might be questionable for the upcoming Ohio State Tourna­ment. Nevertheless, he will be a key for the Irish in 1985. 
Rounding out the foil lineup are juniors Dave Reuter (5-7 in 1985) and Craig Funai (5-4) and sopho­more Phil Moschella ( 4-1 ). 
In the sabre, the Irish are led by senior co-captain Mike Janis. With 115 lifetime wins, he is at the top among current fencers in that cate­gory. After going 40-3 last year and meeting some tough luck in the NCAA tourney, he is back in good form with a 9-1 record. 
Junior DonJohnson adds depth at the number two spot with a 9-3 record. After going 35-6 last season, he came on at the end to be the runner-up to National Champion Mi­chael Lofton ofNew York University in the foil. 
Junior John Edwards (27-1 in 1984, 68-11 lifetime) is competing with sophomore Tony Consoli (28­2, 41-7) for the number three spot on the team. Edwards is 6-3 after losing his first three bouts while Consoli is 6-6. 
Of the three teams, DeCicco believes that his epee squad is per­haps his best currently based on their 44-10 mark. However, his 37­1 7 sabre and foil squads are also very talented and have been fencing some tough competition. Team­work will be the key for success in the 1985 season for the Irish. 
"We have some individuals who are very, very competitive, but you can't go undefeated with just a couple of individuals," said DeCicco. 
To provide the Irish with a tough test of their ability will be this weekend's tournament at Ohio State. ·At the Buckeye university, they will face the strong host team along with the surprise team of 1985 · Illinois. Also on the schedule will be a tough Clevelend State and a tough Case Western Reserve. 
The first home meet for the Irish will come on Feb. 23, when they will face Northwestern, Illinois, and Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Herb Brooks was fired yesterday as coach of the New York Rangers and was replaced by Craig Patrick, the National Hockey League team's vice president and general manager. 
Patrick, who also coached the team during the 1980-81 season, said that Robbie Ftorek would become a playing assistant coach. 
"We feel today's change is in the best interest of the team," Patrick said. "This is no reflection on Herb's abilities. We feel he is an excellent coach and will be successful in the future." 
Brooks took over as the Rangers' 19th coach on June 4, 1981, the same day Patrick was elevated to 
Hoops 
continuedfrompage 12 
to attempt to score the winning points. 
However, an Off-Campus player got a little too physical, at least ac-'­cording to the referee, and an inten­tional two-shot foul was called. Captain Steve Treacy converted on the two foul shots and Off Campus failed to score on its final possession. 
Both these teams stand at 2-0 until a decision is made on the game. 
Grace is the first place team in this division to date. They have recorded victories over Keenan ( 0-3 ), Howard ( 0-2 ), and Holy Cross ( 1-2 ). "Grace will play Off Campus tonight and then Morrissey in the last game of the season. These three teams seem to be the class of the division and it appears that the league title for the Bigten will go down to the final week. 
•----------------------------------------------------------~ Wayne State in the ACC Fieldhouse. 
The Obserwr Tuesday, january 22, 1985-page 10 

San Francisco's running game was factor in 'Super' win over Dolphins 
Then he added an interesting The Dolphins did not accomplish kicker. that and Montana set a Super Bowl 
SAN FRANCISCO · In the days "A lot of teams throw that much, quarterback rushing record with 59 before Super Bowl XIX, finding but they're losing," he said. yards. predictions was easy. Everybody On Sunday, Marino set Super Tackle Keith Fahnhorst had been seemed to know exactly what was Bowl passing records with 50 passes asked about the 49er ground game going to happen. and 29 completions. And he lost. in what seemed certain to be a 
Some people even turned out to San Francisco guard Randy Cross bombs-away air show berween be right. thought he recognized the Dolphins Marino and Montana. 
There wasJoe Montana, for exam­before this Super Bowl. They "I hope it's being overlooked by ple, examining the astounding pass­reminded him of his own team in the Dolphins," he said. "I'm sure not ing statistics Dan Marino had 1981. though. I think it'll be one ofthe keys assembled this season. "Miami's going into this Super of the game as far as controlling the 
Bowl a lot like we did three years ball and keeping their offense off the Marino's numbers were produced ago, with more of an implied run· field." 
in a Miami offense that used its ning threat than a real running "We're looking forward to run­ground game for decoration. The threat," he said. ning the ball," running back Wendell Dolphins traveled through the air ­The implied running threat Tyler had said. "A lot ofpeople don't much like the San Francisco team gained just 25 yards on Sunday. look at us as a running team, but that won the Super Bowl three years Miami defensive coordinator we've been able to run on 

ago. 

Chuck Studley was worried about everybody and I think that will be a
•· 
"I don't think we threw 70 per­Montana's mobility. "He's most dan­key to the game." cent of the time," Montana said, gerous when he gets out of the San Francisco rushed 40 times. remembering that team. "That's im­pocket," Studley said. "We've got to Miami tried just nine runs, fewest pressive, when you throw that much contain him, keep him from getting ever in a Super Bowl. and you're winning." outside." 
Fi Ims this week at 
NBA Standings 
Eaetem Conl..-.nce  
AU.nlfc: Dlvleion  
w  L  Pet.  08  
Boston  34  7  .829  
Philadelphia Washington  33 23  7 19  .825 .548  .5 11.5  
New .Jersey New York  19 14  22 29  .463 .326  15 21  
Cenlnll Dlvlelon  
Milwaukee  28  14  .667  
Detroit  23  16  .590  3.5  
Chicago  20  21  .488  7.5  
Atlanta  17  24  .415  10.5  
Indiana  14  27  .341  13.5  
Cleveland  11  28  .282  15.5  
WMternConl..-.nce  
MI-tDlvleion  
w  L  Pet.  08  
Denver  25  17  .595  
Houston  23  18  .561  1.5  
Dallas  22  19  .537  2.5  
San Antonio  19  20  .487  4.5  
Utah  18  24  .429  7  
KansaaCity  14  26  .350  10  
Pec:lllc: Dlvleion  
L.A. Lakers  28  14  .667  
Phoenix  21  21  .500  7  
L.A. Clippers  19  23  .452  9  
Seattle  19  23  .452  9  
Portland  18  23  .439  9.5  
Golden State  10  30  .250  17  
Yeeterdlly'e Reeulte  
Washington 128. Cleveland 115  
Indiana 129, Golden State 127,201  

Annenberg Auditorium
USFL's Generals could sign 

SNITE MUSEUM OF ART communJCAIK)f) 

~ THfRTRf
Flutie, Phelan by week's end 

Tuesday.Jan.22 
Friday. Jan. 25
Errol Flynn in Claude Goretta's 

negotiating a package deal with the 
"The Adventures 
Generals for the rwo players. 

"A Girl from Lorraine"
ofRobinhood"
NEW YORK · Doug Flutie may "They want Gerard very much," 
7:30p.m.
sign a contract with the New Jersey ' Woolf said. "They have always 

7:30p.m. Generals of the United States Foot· wanted Gerard and invited him ball League by the end of the week down here. It's a unique situation 
INDIVIDUAL ADMISSION: $2.50 SERIES TICKETS WILL BE AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR 
and he said yesterday the failure of where Doug and Gerard are very 
the National Football League to close and the Generals realize how make him an offer is making his deci­important it is they play together." sion easy. The Generals reportedly have of· 
Flu tie, his attorney Bob Woolf and fered Flute, a Reisman Trophy· Boston College teammate Gerard winning quarterback, a Phelan had a get-acquainted lunch non-deferred deal that would pay with Generals' owner Donald him S5 million over four years. Such Trump in New York yesterday. a contract would make him one of 
"My aim is to bring the negotia· the highest paid rookies ever. tions to a head as quickly as possi· The Buffalo Bills of the NFL have ble," said Woolf, who represents the top selection in the league's both Flutie and Phelan. "If negotia· April 30 draft, but Woolf said they tions go well, it's conceivable we have not talked contract with Flu tie. might have something by the end of Last week, the Bills announced they the week." had not made a decision on who 
Woolf pointed out he was not they would pick first. 






~4(Jt~C3L~-----------------------------------------T-u-es_d_a_y_,J_a_nu_a_ry._2_2_,_19•8-5 _.P.ag~e-1~1 
Campus 
•3:30-5 
p.m.-FUm, "Night and Fog," Carroll Hall (SMC), Sponsored by SMC Mod. Langs. & Soc. Depts.' Holocaust Film Series, Free. 

•4 
p.m.-Civil Engineering Research Seminar, "The Scale Effect in Solute Transport Through Het­erogeneous Porous Media," Prof. Stephen Silliman, 

U. 
ofArizona, Room 303 Cushing Hall. 

•5 
p.m.-AFROTC Tactical Air Command Brief­ing, Library Auditorium, Open to the University. 

•6:30 
p.m. -FUm (in Spanish), "Edvardo Frei: Time for a Leader," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by SOLA, Free. 

•
7 -9 p.m. -Presentation, Sonic raft Corporation, For B/M Student in EE, Math, Comp. Sci., Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career & Place­ment Services, Free. 

•7-9 
p.m.-Presentation, Leo Burnett, For BBA, 


-
AL and MBA Students, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services, Free. 
•7 
& 9 p.m.-3-D Movie, "It Came From Outer Space," Carroll Hall (SMC), $1.50. 

•7 
p.m. -Auditions for Sophocles' Electra, Washington Hall, Open to All ND/SMC Students. 

•7 
p.m.-Information Night, Washington Semi­nar, Center for Social Concerns. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Tuesday Night FUm Series, "The Ad­venrures of Robin Hood," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -Ground Zero Meeting, Center for Social Concerns.


Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side GarvLarson 
TV Tonight 
8:00p.m. 16 TheA-Team 22 The Jeffersons 28 Three's A Crowd 34 Nova · Global Village 
8:30p.m. 22 Alice 28 Who's the Boss? 
9:00p.m. 16 Riptide 22 Special-Miss Teen USA 28 MacGruder & Loud 34 Ascent of Man 
ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Movie · My Man Godfrey 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Fall Guy/Columbo 28 ABC News Nightline 
!2:00a.m. 28 Love Connection !2:30a.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 
54 Exclamation 58 Division word 
The Daily Crossword 
of vexation 59 Notion 55 Turk. title 
60 Gannent 61 Being: Lat. 

ACROSS 36 Lamb 67 Church desk 18 Daughter of 58 Pillowcase 
38-rule 68 Tale Cadmus 57 Service tree 63 River Island 1 Tisane (usually) 69 Consumed 19 Alfonso's queen 4 Trimmed 39 Mythological 23 Auctioneer's 
9 Flower holder creatures call 13 Border In 42 Acquire DOWN 24 Slab Monday's Solution 
heraldry 25 Heron's cousin 15 Rlvertothe 43 Solar deity 1 Roman gannent 26 Philippine
Rhone 44 "-of Wrath" Island 
45 Fr. seasons 2 Cupid 28 Finnish coin 3 Vestments 30 Gr letter
47 Camelot

16 Epithet of 4 Piebald · Athena character 5 Balance sheet 31 Son of Jacob 
49 Uncommon 32 Deml·­

17 Folklore ltems 34 Mountain In creatures 6 Peruse Crete'lO Acquiesced 50 Ireland 7 Sea eagle 35 Footnote
21 Restive 52 Piedmont city 8 Subtracting Indicators22 Aquatic bird 55 Home of St. 
37 Seaport hi Scot.

23 Begone! Francis 9 Gentlemen's 40 Topgrade
58 Idle gentlemen 24 Strengthened 10 Edison's 41 Conjugal 
seam 62 Wraiths middle name 46 Earthquake: 27 Stain 64 Damage 11 Notices pref. 29 Card game 65 Members of the 12 Facile 48 Temper 
©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
33 Woman hawk family 14 Tragedy by 51 Advocate: suff. 
1/22/85
All Rights Reserved 




counselor 68 Not so much Sophocles 53 Impudent 

WE NEED A NEW NAMEI The SAB Record Store in LaFortune is under new management this semester. and to go along with the new personnel. we'd like to find a new nome-a REAL nome. So help us out! Submit your ideas on piece of paper with yournorne. address, and phone number to the Record Store this week. The person submitting tne winning nome will get a special prize: your choi~e qt. any three records in stockI .. ·... -~ ...... ~ OPE.N TUES-SAT 1 pm to 5 pm Entry deadline-Spm Sat  Tired of High Prices? Empty Pocketbook got you Down? Try the new $TUDENT$AVER A DISCOUNT GENERAL STORE Serving your needs with SCHOOL SUPPLIES & BEAUTY AIDES Room 2-C off Ballroom, 2nd Floor Lafortune Open 4:00-8:00pm Monday ­Friday  



Seorts 
Interhall basketball has close races in all three eight-team A divisions 
ByJERRY MELIA 
Sports Writer 
Although it may seem that Dig­ger's team is the only show in town, there are other basketball teams that play in the ACC. The men's interhall league began a few weeks before fall semester finals, and most teams completed three of their eight regu­lar season games. 
The 1984-SS schedule of "A" Leagues has three separate divisions or leagues which are named ACC, Bigten, and Pacten. Each division in turn consists ofeight teams. 
In the ACC League, Bob Brogan's Off-Campus team won its first three contests by outscoring Cavanaugh (with a record of0-3 ), Carroll ( 0-2 ), and Alumni ( 1-2 ). Flanner is only a halfgame behind while posting a 2-0 record. 'Ibey have beaten Cavanaugh and Dillon ( 2-1 ). 
Flanner played Carroll last night to finish the third cycle of games in the league. Flanner does not encounter Off Campus until Feb. 5. There is still much to be decided in 

•
this league with only one game sepa­rating the first four teams. 
The Bigten has three teams which are currently undefeated, although the jury is still out on one game be­tween Morrissey and Off Campus. These two teams played a rather 
controversial game last month where it appeared that Morrissey had won, but when the game was completed, Off Campus had filed a protest over a call made by a referee. With less than 30 seconds left in the game, Morrissey was trailing by a point and had the ball. Off Campus had three fouls to give before they 


were in a penalty situation. They decided to use these fouls to give 

Tuesday, January 22, 1985 -page 12 

1 _,.//4(1 
. 

_;, 
The Notre Dame men's fencing team, in action
Morrissey as little time as a possible 

here against Wayne State, will be on the road this see HOOPS, page 9 weekendfor the Ohio State Tournament. The Irish are 6-0 so far this season, and are looking to dethrone Wayne State as NCAA champs. Mike Chmielpreviews the tourney below. 
Men's swim team suffers tough setback to Ferris State 
By MARY SIEGER the final three events of the meet, Senior teammate Brian Casey ships to its swimmers, Ferris State is Stark anticipates fierce competi­Sports Writer but came up short in the end. captured first place in the 200-yard evenly matched with Notre Dame tion on Friday since Saint "It could have gone to the last butterfly finishing in 2:01.1 and took a~d the Irish intend to use what they Bonaventure had a successful It was one of those meets you try event, but we weren't able to do it," second place for the Irish in the 200-learned in Saturday's meet in the recruiting season last year, adding to to put behind you and then move said Notre Dame head coach Dennis yard breast stroke. Diver Mike Ken­future. its solid corps of returning veterans. ahead with the rest of your season. Stark. "Some people had good swims nedy brought Notre Dame within "Ferris State pointed up a few "They've got some front line In its first dual meet of 1985, the and if we had a few more with some striking distance of Ferris State after things; things we have to touch on," recruits which make them that 
Notre Dame men's swim team good swims, it could have gone the winning the three-meter dive. said Stark. "We want to get ready for much stronger," he said. 
watched its season record slip to 1-3 other way." "There were some bright lights swimming our best." 
as the Irish lost to Ferris State Uni­Although the Irish did not do as and some dim lights," said Stark. "It This Friday, the Irish will compete On Sunday, the team faces Holy versity, 6S-48, this weekend. well as they anticipated in Saturday's wasn't all bleak because there were in one of their toughest contests of Cross College and Providence Col­Ferris State jumped out to an early meet, several swimmers submitted some good swims." the season as they travel to Saint lege to round out this weekend's ac­7-0 lead and the Irish never seemed outstanding performances. Senior After losing several swimmers to Bonaventure University. Saint tion. The Irish will return home to to recover from their initial disad­Tim Bohdan won the 200-yard graduation last May, the Irish are in Bonaventure defeated Notre Dame the Rockne Memorial Pool on Feb. 5, vantage. Notre Dame pulled within freestyle race in 1:48.1 and the 200-the process of rebuilding the team. last season and Stark hopes the Irish when they play host to Kalamazoo 
l 0 points of Ferris State going into yard backstroke in 2:0S.7. While Ferris State offers scholar-will swim to their full potential. College. 
Fencers continue drive for NCAA championship at Ohio St. tourney 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL that first round with Harvard, never­that could beat us -Illinois, Wiscon­Sports Writer theless, got our kids back in the sin, Ohio State, Wayne State, and groove." Northwestern," said DeCicco. 
While it is too early to be talking After downing Harvard, I 7-10, the "Illinois may be, this year, tougher national championship, the 1985 Irish went on to make a dean sweep or as tough as Wayne State. Illinois Irish seem to once again have one of of their east coast competition as has some very good fencers from llli­the top men's fencing teams in the they downed MIT, 18-9; Penn, 17-nois. The others arc perennial win­country as they are already off to a 10; Cornell, 20-7; Princeton, 24-3; ners." 6-0 start with an extremely talented and Temple, 22-5. Surprising to DeCicco thus far ha!> and well-experienced team. Over the last weekend during been the play of the epeeists. In the 
After stumbling in the 1984 NCAA break, the Irish participated in and first two matches they carried the finals last year due to poor schedul­won the 198S United States Fencing team for the most part going 7-2 in ing and tough competition, the Irish Association's Collegiate Open. Of each meet. Returning to lead the took third in the springtime event. the three weapons, the Irish won epee squad is Quaroni. After going With eight ofnine starters returning, two team events and finished third 35-3 last year, Quaroni is 11·1 this the Irish are looking to better last in the other. far into the season. Following a sixth year's one-loss season ( 19-1) and are In the sabre, perhaps the most place-finish in the 1984 NCAA tour­shooting to dethrone Wayne State -talented of the three Irish squads, ney, the junior is 98-17 lifetime. the 1984 National Champions and Notre Dame took the second, third, Junior Brian St. Clair also is return­perennial powerhouse in fencing. and fourth spots individually. Junior ing from last year after going 32-9 in 
In his 24th year, head coach Mike Tony Consoli finished second to 1984 and finishing tenth in the DeCicco believes that his team has Cottingham of Columbia who won NCAA Championships. St. Clair is the talent to go undefeated and be the gold medal in a dose match. The currently 4-2. successful. Irish won the team sabre competi­Adding depth and solidifying the 
"The key to our success is that we tion as well. squad are transfers Christian have the overall depth that will In the epee, junior Mike Gostigian Scherpe and Alex Gruman and hopefully carry us through the won the gold for the Irish, who junior Mike Gostigian. Scherpc and entire season," said DeCicco. placed four epeeists among the final Gruman transfered to Notre Dame 
After getting off to a rough start eight. Senior co-captain Andy from Cal-State Northridge after their shortly into the new year, DeCicco Quaroni took third after being former school disbanded its fencing has been pleased with the progress eliminated by Gostigian in the semi­program. In 1983 and 1984, Scherpe of his team. Beginning against Har­finals. Overall, the epee team beat finished fourth in the NCAA tourna­vard on Jan. 7, the Irish had not Penn and Columbia by scores of 5-1 ment and last year, he was named an touched their weapons as a team for the team title. all-American. Scherpe is 9-2 while since before the Christmas break. In the foil, sophomore Charles Gruman is 3-1. 
"We started off rather slowly Higgs-Coulthard won the gold while Gostigian missed last season as he when we met with Harvard because junior captain Mike VanderVelden took the time off to train fof the we hadn't fenced since early Decem­took third after injuring his knee. Olympic modern pentathlon event. ber," said DeCicco. "Fortunately, we Despite the loss of Van der Velden, Lifetime he is 16-5. This far into the have enough good people that had the foilists finished third as a team. season, he is fencing well with an 8-l some training during the Christmas "The way our team is fencing record. break like Don Johnson and Charles we're looking at about four or five 
see FENCERS, page 9 

Higgs-Coulthard. The pressure of teams that are going to give us fits ­




