Badin ceiling leaks-page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 78 the:: independent student newspaper serving notre Jame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 1985 

Coffeehouse plans revealed by HPC 
By SCOTT BEARBY will appear onstage here dunng the StaffReporter actual concert if Notre Dame wins the contest. Otherwise the individ­Details for the first Hall Presi­ual will be flown to the site of the dents' Council sponsored cof­winning university. The winner is feehouse were unveiled at last also eligible to compete for an in­night's HPC meeting. This upcoming ternship with MlV. Gioffre and social undertaking by the council Healy said they are optimistic about will lead to an ongoing program on Notre Dame's chances to win the the Notre Dame campus. fund-raising drive and encourage 
The new social club, entitled students to support the effort. BOFA (Blow-Off for Awhile), is de­Senator Pat Browne also spoke to signed to be a coffeehouse environ­the hall presidents about the new ment, and "something to take student general store located in advantage of hall social space," ac­LaFortune. He said although sales cording to HPC President Chris have dropped since the post-break Tayback. rush, the store is still running well. 
The coffeehouse, which will Browne and Tayback both said they rotate to each dorm, will have some encourage hall presidents to form ofentertainment, and free food promote the store. Tayback further and drink. The council wants to said students should stand behind promote the BOFA club as a bar the store since it is a "very signifi­without alcohol within walking dis­cant achievement for student gov­tance, Tayback said. ernment." 
Flanner Hall will sponsor the first In other HPC business, the coffeehouse Wednesday, jan. 30 council said Indiana Congressman from 9:30 to 1 1 :30 p.m. The HPC John Hiler and University President said they want to encourage partici­Father Theodore Hesburgh have pation in this first event to get the agreed to speak as a part ofa lecture BOFA program started well. series sponsored by the council. 
Hesburgh is tentatively scheduled to 

Aline Gioffre, chairwoman of the speak sometime later in the semes­Multiple Sclerosis fund drive, re­ter on the role ofleadership in avoid­ported on the progress of their up­ing nuclear war. coming moneymaking efforts. Notre Election information for student Dame is one offifteen universities in body president, vice president, and a money raising competition for a senators was given by an Om­free MlV concert this spring. Many budsman representative. Informa­campus events will be held in the tional meetings will be jan. 29 at next two months, including movies, 7:00 p.m. for president and vice raffles, and dances. president and 8:00 p.m. for senate 
February 7 marks the kickoff to hopefuls, both in LaFortune. The the campaign with a video/dance mandatory meeting for all potential party. The fundraising will continue candidates is jan. 31. until March 29 when there will be a In administrative business, the rock-and-roll lookalike contest. Bill HPC appointed Dorothy David from Healy, chairman for both events, Badin Hall to fill the unexpired term said the winner ofthe March contest ofsecretary. 

The Observer/Paul Kramer 
There's no business like ... 
junior Michael O'Keefe gives it all he's got during auditions for "Electra,"' last night. Held in Washington Hall, the auditions attracted many acting hopefuls around campus. 


Senator Pat Browne, a sponsor ofthe new stu­members to patronize and promote the store, dent government Student Saver Store in which is still doing a steady business afteran en· LaFortune spoke to the Hall Presidents Council thusiastic response from students at its opening last nightinZahm Hall. Browne encouraged HPC earlier this week. More HPC news at left. 
South Shore collision investigated; eleven remain hospitalized in Gary 
Associated Press The trains, part of an electric pact speed was probably much less inter-urban railroad operating be­than 25 miles an hour," he said. 
GARY, Ind. -A team of federal in­tween northwestern Indiana com­Rescue crews had to use crowbars vestigators yesterday was trying to munities and Chicago, were both to free some of the people from the determine whether mechanical or. moving at the time of the accident, wreckage, said Gary Fire Chief 
human error caused the head-on, Finan said. Bobbyjoiner. 
rush-hour collision of two South They were sharing the track Eighty-six people were injured in Shore line commuter trains that usually reserved for eastbound traf­the collision and ll people injured 86 people. fic because sub-zero weather had remained hospitalized in three Gary­
Investigators with the National damaged overhead electrical lines area hospitals yesterday, officials re­Transportation Safety Board arrived on the westbound track, Finan said. ported. at the scene just west of Gary from The trains are powered by Earlier reports Monday nightfrom Washington yesterday afternoon, electricity from those lines. the hospitals indicated 129 people said Jim Finan, an investigator at the had been hurt in the accident, but board's Chicago office who made an Finan said the trains were under a officials apparently miscalculated on-site inspection shortly after the 25-mile-an-hour speed restriction the number treated. crash late Monday. because only one track was being Finan said the NTSB's inves­
"There is some reason why two used. tigative team would remain on the trains were on the same track at the "The westbound train was justout scene for about three days and then same time, but I couldn't say now if of Gary so he may not have been at present its preliminary report to offi­it's mechanical or human error," full speed yet. Both engineers broke cials in Washington. Finan said yesterday. (applied their brakes) and the im-The engineers on both trains un­
derwent toxicological tests voluntarily Monday evening, said 
Finan. 
Finan said the tests, which are used to determine if drug use con­tributed to the accident, are not re­
OBUD contest results 


yield charitable ideas 
quired by law but are becoming By DIANNE MCBRIEN joe Greco of Fisher Hall for his idea increasingly routine after railroad StaffReporter of a "Rent-a-College-Student Day," accidents. 
The results of Ombudsman's when local senior citizens could He said Tuesday he did not know "Operation Brainstorm" contest hire students to do house or yard the results of those tests. have been tabulated, and they were work at low hourly or job rates. The The railroad will not release the summed up by Obud Director money, Greco suggested, could be results until "a complete investiga­Henry Sienkiewicz: "Students really donated to the Multiple Sclerosis tion is made by the railroad, the Na­have the ability to change things Foundation or a local charity. tional Transportation (Safety) Board around here." Ray Fronk ofStanford Hall andjim and the Federal Railroad Administra­
King of Dillon Hall tied for second tion," said Dick Shipley, superin­
Winners in last November's an­place and split the $10prize for their tendent of the Chicago South Shore nual idea contest, were notified last similar ideas ofan ongoing, campus­and South Bend Railroad. night and will receive cash prizes for wide paper drive to benefit Nor­Gary Mayor Richard Hatcher said their entries. Because of cuts in Om­thern Indiana State Hospital and he was pleased with the city's budsman's 1985 budget, however, other local charities. response to the accident. the prizes were smaller than in pre­"The first (rescue) units were on vious years. Sienkiewicz said the cut jean O'Bryan of Farley Hall was the scene within two minutes of the in cash may account for this year's awarded third place and 115 for her accident," Hatcher said. relatively low number of entries, suggestion of a contest for student Patricia Shadwick, 30, an insur­150 compared to 500 in 1982, artists to decorate the Memorial Li-ance broker riding from Chicago to "when prizes ranged up to $50." 
see OBUD, page 3 
see CRASH, page 3The $15 first prize was awarded to 

-------------------------~---------------------~---·­
The Observer 



In Brief 

Forty parking spaces in the north stadium parking lot formerly used by faculty will be given to students. Director of Security Glenn Terry has agreed that student demand is higher than the faculty in that spot, and the parking spaces were not being heav­ily used. -The Observer 
The first organizational meeting of the 
Judicial Council for the spring semester will be held tomorrow night at 7 In room 124, Hayes-Healy. Campus elections and other items on the agenda for this semester will be discussed. -The Observer 
China's National People's Congress will 
meet in late March to approve the agreement that will bring Hong Kong under Chinese sovereignty in 1997, the official Xinhua News Agency reported Monday. The Hong Kong pact was signed Dec. 19 in Peking by Prime Ministers Margaret Thatcher of Britain and Zhao Zlyang of China. The pact transfers sovereignty over Hong Kong on July 1, 1997, when Britain's 99-year lease on the colony expires. China has pledged to preserve Hong Kong's capitalist way oflife for 50 years. The agreement requires approval of the British Parliament and the Chinese National People's Congress, a largely ceremonial legislative body. -AP 
A strong earthquake shook the Molucca islands near Indonesia early Monday, a spokesman for the Meteorological Uepartment said. There were no reports of casualties or damage. The quake, which measured 5.9 on the Richter scale, struck about 200 miles north of Ambon in the Moluccas, northeast of the In­donesian capital of)akarta, according to the spokesman. The Richter scale Is a gauge ofthe energy released by an earthquake, as measured by the ground motion recorded on a seismograph. A magnitude of six can cause severe damage. -AP 
The U.S. Postal Service, seeking to ensure ade­
quate supplies ofstamps when postage rates rise Feb. 17, said it plans to issue stamps bearing the letter "D" and carrying no denomination. The D stamps will be issued Feb. 1, as will embossed envelopes bearing the D postage designation. They will represent the new 22­cent rate for First Class letters. Postmaster General Paul Carlin said the stamps without denominations were already in stock and were being issued because "we estimate that stamp inventories in post offices on Feb. 17 would fall short of public demand." The rate for First Class postal cards will rise to 14 cents. Acard bearing a likeness of patriot Charles Carroll and the words "U.S. Domestic Rate" will also be Issued Feb. 1. -AP 
Michael Jackson's "negative influence on young people" is the reason public posters of the singer have been banned in Ras al-Khaimah, a Persian Gulf emirate, an official said yesterday. The director of the Ras al-Khaimah municipality, Mubarak Quhaiter, said his officers are making sure the posters are removed from public places, especially stores selling audio and video tapes and records. Violators risk having their stores closed. Quhaiter said the decision was made "as part ofthe efforts to protect young people from imitat­ing negative alien behavior." Posters and tapes of jackson and his songs, along with his dress and hair style, are popular in much ofthe Middle East. -AP 
Weather 

A chance of flurries today 
with highs in the upper 20s. A 20 percent chance of light snow tonight and tomorrow with lows near 20 and highs in the upper 20s. ­
AP 


The Observer-
The Observer (USPS 599 l-4000) is puhlisht·d Monday through Friday and on homt· foothall Saturdays, except durin~ exam and vacation periods. The Observer is puhlisht·d hy the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collq(e. Suhscriptions may he purcha.-.:d for 130 per year ( SlO per se· mcMer) hy writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. lndian:t 465~6. 
The Observer is a memhcr of The 
Associated Press. All rcprodu<:rion 
riWlts arc rc:servcd. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
JJesigtJ Editor......................... Chris Bowler JJesigtJ Asststatlt ..................... Alex Peltzer Layout S/tlff........................ Tracy and Andi 1;pesetters................Vic Guarino and Ted News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino Copy Editor ....................................... Uz Flor Spor/s Cop)• Editor...... Eric Scheuermann Vieupolflt Lt~yout ................John Menndl Fea/ures Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout ................... Andi Schnuck NJJ Day Editor............................. Earl Baker Ad /Jesigfl .................John and Anna Mark Pbologmpber .......................... Paul Kramer 

Wednesday,January 23, 1985-page 2 


Notre Dame gets trivial 
. 
What did Rector "Pop" Farley distribute from the 

front ofSarin porch three times daily? 
Who designed Notre Dame Stadium? 
What is the average depth ofSt. Mary's Lake on the 

NDcampus? 
The answers to these and 1,005 other questions 

about Notre Dame can be found in the newest trivia 
game "Fightin' Irish 'Facts,"' (as well as at the bottom of 
this column). The game is currently being sold at the 
Hammes bookstore, at area retail stores, and through 
the mail to anybody who thinks he or she knows anyth­
ing about the University and has I 5 dollars to try and 
prove it. 
The game is similar to "Trivial Pursuit" in that each 

player must answer questions in each of four areas 
(Football, University ofNO, Round Ball and Potpourri), 
and then race back to the center ofthe board to answer 
a question of the other 
player's choice. But unlike 
that other trivia game, the 
questions in "Fightin' Irish 
'Facts"' are supposedly 
about the University. 
Some of them, however, 
,a

are stretching it just a bit. 
What is the common 
~? 

name for the Servicemen's ., (j' • ReadjustmentBill? 
• 0 ~ 

What is the weight class just above 150 lbs.? 0 Who lived at Tippecanoe Place in South Bend? 
Nevertheless, the game is very popular and seems to have combined the latest fashion for trivia games with 
the nationwide popularity of JV1/IR~ WEIIO..LT Notre Dame. And it seems to be selling very well. The game is being sold by Time Check, Inc., ofCedar Rapids, Iowa. The company is licensed through Cham­pion Products, the University's official licenser. According to a spokesman for Time Check, the com­pany is selling "a lot" ofgames. "Sales are phenomenal," he said. The game was first introduced in late Novem­ber of last year, just in time for the Christmas season. Representatives from Time Check first passed out fliers advertising the trivia game at a Notre Dame football game and sacks full of orders have been coming in the mail daily ever since. The game has only recently been sold at stores. Researchers for the game visited campus last sum­mer, using the Library and the Archives as well as talking to anybody who would talk to them in develop­ing the game's questions. And some of them would give even the most ardent Notre Dame fan fits: 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"Are yo11 OK tu rlrit•t•~" ·wl!ats a.fi•w lll'er.~!" 
•[)idljllllillll't' tou/11/ICh to r!ri11k~" · "I'IIIJH'1.1i·ctly.fim'.· 
"Art• /JUII i11 Ill/if s/!ajll' to tit•it•t•!" "l't't'llt't't'r.fr'/tlwtt('l:· 

•j thiuk !fOil,/'(' had 0/l'll' t(){) IIIOII,Ij." 
"Yr111 kiridiu, I m11 r!rit•e ll'ith 11111 eye.~ r·lo.~ed." 
"Yrlll't't' had t(/(/ 1111(('/! to driuk. let lilt' ri1~·ue." "Nobody dril't'S 111.11 car but 1111'.· 
DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KIU A FRIENDSHIP. 


Dan 

McCullough 
News Editor 

What was the profitfrom ND's football program in 1919, to the nearest 1100? 
Where wouldyou go for a golfinstruction bookfor the blind, or the program for the first ND football game? 
Notre Dameproduced one-halfmillion ofa certain item to sell, in 1858. What items were these? 
Some of them, however, are downright easy: 
What is the name of the daily newspaper at Notre Dame? 
But Notre Dame isn't the only university with its own trivia game. Time Check also distributes "Husker Hysteria (University of Nebraska)" and "Hawkeye Mania (University oflowa)." 
And not just university students and alumni have their own game. After plowing the back forty, farmers can settle down to test their trivia knowledge in "Farming and Country," another Time Check game. The company also offers trivia games for fisherman and for Chicago sports fans. 
But the Time Check's big­I-ll gest seller so far isn't any of 
these. Not even "Fightin' Irish 'Facts"' could outsell "Nautical Nonsense," Time Check's trivia game for boating enthusiasts. 
'J;)A.J;)SQQ ::IQ.L 'S)j:l!JQ ::IIUEQ ::IJlON 'A.reJQn 
[1l!JOIU::Iy.j ::lip JO lU::IIU::ISllQ ::lip U! UO!P::IIJO:::) Q:l.Jl!;)S::I}I S::IIU1l9 
pull suods [llUO!lllUJ::IlUI ::llU 'S£ZS 'J::Il(llQ::IPOlS lU::IIU::ID 
'·sqr 8S I 'JJ!H T9 ::lip 'l::I::IJ ZZ '::~mpoll ::llOU)I 'I!EIU Aff£P ::IQ.L 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
Pre-Cana 
Weekend 


The Observer Wednesday, January 23, 1985-page 3 
• 


: Open at 8:00p.m. 259-7233 



Civil rights groups clash with Dole 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Major civil rights groups are moving toward a con­frontation with Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole over legislation to restore anti-discrimination protection to female, handicapped, elderly and minority Americans. 
Civil rights forces and Dole are preparing vastly different versions of anti-bias bills to restore safeguards lost in a Supreme Court ruling. The outcome could help test the Kansas Republican in his new job as floor leader. 
•
• 
Dole will anger conservatives ifhe expands civil rights laws, and be rebuked by liberals if he refuses to restore the broad safeguards they support. 
For now, Dole has sided with the conservatives, the Reagan adminis­tration and parts of the business community in deciding just how much protection is needed to restore the status quo from before the ruling. 
Their narrowly constructed bill may be introduced this week, as may the liberals' version sponsored by Democratic Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts and many others. 
• $1 drinks for anyone •• with a swim suit 
• 


·······················~······· 


USA TODAY 
$24.50 

all semester DORM DELIVERY 

For more info call JIM 283-2299 
Aides to Dole, calling him a "master of compromise," say he plans to get some form oflegislation through the Senate and not let the issue die there as it did in a conserva­tive illibuster in the waning days of the last session. 
The liberals' bill passed the House 375-32 last June and is expected to win there again by an overwhelming margin. 
The Supreme Court ignited the dispute last Feb. 28, when it stripped away an enforcement weapon against colleges that receive federal money while practicing sex discrim­ination. 
ATTENTioN JUNioRS Today is the deadline to get tickets for the Junior Class Road Trip to SECOND ciTY on Feb 8 

An evening offun and debauchery in the Windy City . 
Call Dan at 178 7 for reservations 
OBUD 
continuedjrompage 1 brary pit. "Right now the place looks like a cross between a truck stop and a Penn Station cafeteria," O'Bryan said. 
Honorable mention winners in­clude Ed Abt, Frank Boley, Missi Freehafer, Margaret Fosmoe, Bob Hart, Susan Hoelicher, Mike lalacci, Jane Panfil, Bill Purcell and Kevin Shea. Their ideas ranged from turn­ing Stepan Center into a regular weekend dance and snack spot to painting the water tower blue and gold. 
Instead of practical suggestions, many entries merely offered insight into students' pet peeves. "Shoot 


lbc Obscrvcr/Paul Kramer 

Hibernation 
Bikes around campus are definitely not suf­doubt also need some help starting come spring. fering from overuse these days. Burled under the Exceptfor a few brave souls, no one is attempting snow, like most cars on campus, they will no to dig them out now. 
Extreme cold blamed for frozen ceiling pipes in Badin laundry room 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
News Staff 
The recent cold temperatures have frozen pipes in the Badin laundry annex area, causing leaks and temporarily shutting down the laundry's washers. 
Cold temperatures were also re­sponsible for a leak discovered in the first floor ceiling of Washington Hall. 
The leaks caused no significant damage in either incidence. 
According to John Moorman, director of maintenance, the laundry annex leak was a result of someone leaving the laundry's main doors open. 
"Apparently this was a very unus­ual case," said Moorman., "It appears someone left the main doors open which is the only way the pipes could have frozen. It had to be a tre­mendous onrush of cold air (to freeze the pipes)." 
The maintenance department turned off the water in the laundry room Monday evening after dis­covering the leak. The pipe was fixed yesterday morning and the washers were back in service later that evening. 

Maintenance found Washington · Hall's leak in the fire protection sprinkler line early yesterday mor­ning. As of yesterday_ afternoon, the maintenance department was repairing the pipe. That pipe's water has been turned offbut the building still has adequate fire protection, ac­cording to Moorman. 
Moorman said that yesterday's leak was unrelated to the leak which flooded Washington Hall earlier in the schoolyear. 
After an investigation, it was dis­covered that the sprinkler system's pipes froze because a student left a window open after Saturday night's Father Guido Sarducci show. 
"The problem is like anywhere else on campus," said Moorman. "If you leave open windows when you have sub-zero temperatures, (the pipes) are bound to freeze." 
anyone wearing an argyle sweater," volunteered one entry. Others were easier to please, Sienkiewicz said. "Put 'Dondi' in the Observer," re­quested one. 
Sienkiewicz said the winning ideas will be reviewed by the appro­priate campus department. For ex­ample, the idea about painting the water tower will be given to Mainte­nance for consideration. He said he encourages students who favor an idea to support it by writing to the appropriate department or the ad­ministration. Sienkiewicz added stu­dents will also have a chance to "speak out" at Ombudsman's monthly Gripe Nights. 
Crash 
continued from page 1 

her hometown of Gary, said, "I was fortunate that my injuries were not serious. There were four people on my car who were taken out on splinter stretchers. 
"Everyone on the train pitched in, in fact, I went around to help people before I thought, I better sit down." 
Fifty-five people were taken to Gary's Methodist Hospital, said spokesman Chuck Green, and six people remained hospitalized there yesterday . 
At St. Mary Medical Center in Gary, 28 people were treated, said spokeswoman Cynthia Ivey. Three people remained hospitalized there yesterday. 
At St. Mary Medical Center in Gary, 28 people were treated, said spokeswoman Cynthia Ivey. Three people remained hospitalized there yesterday. 
Three people were taken to St. Catherine Hospital in East Chicago, said spokeswoman Rebecca Hluska. Two people remained hospitalized there yesterday. 
Officials at all three facilities said those hospitalized were in good condition. 
A diesel was being used most of yesterday to pull trains over a five­mile stretch ofthe westbound tracks where the overhead lines were still down, said Shipley. 
He said the lines were expected to be repaired by the end of the day, when the track would resume nor­mal operation. 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
• LJnlt.ciW.., 
l 
l I 
1 
1 


The Observer Wednesday, January 23, 1985-page 4 




Bombing leads to new strikes 

Assoclated Press 
NAQOURA, Lebanon -A deadly car bombing in southern Lebanon prompted widespread strikes and protests today, and Israeli and Lebanese negotiators adjourned without agreeing on security measures to prevent a civil war when Israel's soldiers pull out. 
A statement issued by United Na­tions spokesman Timur Goksel at the end of today's session between military delegations from Lebanon 


Men's Hair Styling at its finest ... 
minutes from campus ! 
OOHAIRCUTS 
Haircut,



f!i'j 

shampoo, 
212-0312 

& blowdry
277-1619 
ri1
545.H ferrace Lane 
$8.50

(St. Rd .23) Across from Martin's (hair must be shampooed day ofcut) 
We are only minutes from campus ! 

and Israel said that although 
r....... .....-...o--........................................................ ..............JQ""~....crJ.::1
-':"..JCr....o""....... ,.,....o--,.,.,.,.,.,.~...o--,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.Lebanon "expressed its reserva­tions" about Israel's three-stage plan ~ University of Notre Dame ' 8 to withdraw its armed forces from Lebanon, negotiations would resume tomorrow. 
I Foreign Study I 
As the delegates met in this town near the Israeli-Lebanese border, a 
I Programs I
general strike spread through Mos­lem areas of Lebanon to protest the Moustafa Saad, a prominent anti-Israel leader in the south § §bomb attack Monday night at the Lebanon port city ofSidon, is carried on stretcher into American home of a prominent Sunni Moslem University Hospital in Beirut early yesterday morning after a car ~ Tiar~J'n, china ~ leader in Sidon, southern Lebanon's bomb explosion collapsedhis apartment, ktlling two civilians. 
§ Summer 1985 §
largest city. 
Two people were killed in the Moslem-Christian violence at the demonstrators hurled stones at the ~ June 10-August 1 § blast and at least 30 others were start of Israel's withdrawal. An offi­patrol, prompting Israeli soldiers to injured, including Moslem leader cial of the Israeli Foreign Ministry in shoot briefly into the air. No 8 Information Meeting I§ Mustafa Saad, who heads a powerful Jerusalem, who spoke on condition casualties were reponed. 
militia in Sidon and is known for his he not be identified, denied that Is­In mostly Moslem west Beirut, An inlmmatio-1 meotlng lo• all who have <e<ently leamed ol
I 

anti-Israeli views. rael was reponsible for the explo­schools and businesses shut down § the program, are interested, and considering application §
Saad was airlifted to Paris in a sion. and many streets were barricaded charter jet with his wife and ad­Hundreds of Lebanese and with burning tires in a show ofanger mitted to Bichat Hospital early Palestinian demonstrators paraded over the car bombing. 
I I
422 ADMINISTRATION BUILDING 

today. The couple's 12-year-old through Sidon's streets at midmorn­Saad's bodyguard and a visitor daughter was being treated in a ing, waving portraits ofSaad. were killed in the explosion, which WEDNESDAY,JANUARY23_j§Sidon hospital. An Israeli patrol of a tank, two collapsed the three-story building 6:30p.m.
Lebanese government and religi­armored personnel carriers and a housing Saad's residence and office, 
I

ous leaders accused Israel's secret jeep approached the marchers as police said. Officers said the car had service of engineering the Sidon car they neared Saad's wrecked house, been rigged with 220 pounds of bombing in an attempt to provoke and witnesses said some TNT. 
L~~o'Y~~!.c 


AHention all ND/SMC Students 
SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA 
• 
8 days, 7 nights in a beachfront hotel 

•FREE 
PARTIES EVERY NIGHT 

• 
Coppertone offer when signing up 

• 
Motor coach transportation 


Prices perperson: 
$94 5 per room wI o transportation 
$104 4 per room w I o transportation $184 5 per room with transportation $194 4 per room with transportation 
Call 239-5136 or stop by the Senior Class office in Lafortune between 6 and 9 p.m. Monday -Friday 
Sponsored by the Senior Class 
-----~--~---------------------~----------------------·-111111 
The Observer 

APPhoto 

Frostbitten fountain 
A couple ofpedestriansstand nearafrozenfountain on Penn­sylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C. Monday. The presidential inauguralparade which usuallygoes down Pennsylvania Avenue was cancelleddue to the bitterly cold weather, sendinghundreds of high school students home disappointed at missing the chance to march in the parade. 
THE EARLY~&BIRD... ,J~p  
PREPARE FOR: Classes starting Sun., Jan 27  
1717 E. South Bend Ave. ~-H. South Bend, Indiana 46637KIIPUIN (219) 272-4135 Educational Center  

SENIORS 
Make your next step countl 
When you are considering options for next year, Don't fo et: 

Mary Ann Roemer ICenter for Social Concerns 11239-7949 
M. J. Murray 
Associate Office 239-55211I 

Wednesday,January 23, 1985-page 5 
Students use their training overseas with the AIESEC work experience 
ByANN KALTENBACH 
StaffReporter 
Gaining business experience, self­confidence and knowledge is the desired product of AIESEC, accor­ding to Mark Herkert, the Executive Vice President of the chapter at Notre Dame. 
AIESEC is an international organi­zation devoted to global manage­ment and leadership development. It is a student non-profit organiza­tion which seeks to identify and train a select group ofstudents with outstanding leadership potential in business and related fields. 
AIESEC is the French acronym for !'Association Internationale des Etudiants en Sciences Economiques et Commerciales. 
"The knowledge learned by working abroad is so practical be­cause it involves basic marketing techniques which can be applied to almost any field," said Herkert. "The group is located worldwide and it can be found in 60 countries, among 400 universities and on 60 college campuses." 
Herkert said,"AIESEC came into existence after World War II. Its pur­pose was to patch relations between countries and to promote under­standing through students." 
Notre Dame's AIESEC chapter has existed since 1964. According to Herkert, its success has been cycli­cal. 
Notre Dame's AIESEC group belongs to the central region in the United States. Its boundaries extend to Indianapolis, Fort Wayne and Gary,Ind. 
Herkert said,"Basically, we con­tact international corporations in­terested in the international realm of business and we do a marketing call. We inform them of the benefits of AIESEC. In effect, we are a place­ment agency." 
He added,"We work to bring over highly motivated, cost efficient stu­dents with bachelor's or master's degrees to the United States to work." 
Herkert said, foremost among AIESEC's international development programs is this traineeship ex­change. Each year, AIESEC-U.S. places over 300 foreign students in 
U.S. companies with an equal num­ber of American students placed abroad. These trainees may hold jobs in accounting, finance, market­ing, computer science and other business-related fields. 
"Students fill out an application in which they can specify which country, business, and role of re­sponsibility they are seeking," said Herkert. 
"Companies also ftle applications for the type of trainee they want. These applications are then matched at the International Congress and students are selected." 
The reciprocal nature of this pro­gram allows an American student the opportunity to work abroad every time an American employer accepts a trainee from another country. In effect, American stu­dents can learn practical business skills through the contribution of corporate participants. 
On the Notre Dame campus, AIESEC has 45 members who pay a $20 yearly membership fee. General member meetings are held once a week. 
"AIESEC is open to anyone," said Herkert. "It is in no way restricted to business majors. It is helpful to have taken a few business courses and to know a foreign language, but it cer­tainly is not required." 
He continued,"Americans are in high demand abroad. likewise, the United States offers responsibility roles higher than any country, so its trainees are extremely qualified." 
Presently, Notre Dame graduates are working through AIESEC in Australia, Amsterdam and West Ger­many according to Herkert. In ex­change, South Bend is hosting two students from West Germany and one from Poland. 
"This year, seven students have applied for internships abroad so seven jobs must also be found in the South Bend area." he said. 
Foreign students coming to South Bend are placed at Miles Laboratory, Croweshizek (an accounting fum), First Source Bank and at the Univer­sity itself. 
"Member students of AIESEC re­search hundreds of companies, write introduction letters to them and make follow-up calls and ap­pointments," said Herkert, adding that conferences are held periodi­cally. 
"Ten students from the local com­mittee attended the National Conference in Boulder, Colo. from Dec. 26, 1984, to Jan. I, 1985. Northwestern will host the spring regional. Included in it will be prod­uct seminars and a discussion of marketing and exchange tech­niques." 



Next weekend, Notre Dame will  
sponsor a local presidents meeting  
for the central region, in which ap­ 
proximately 40 to 60 people will at­ 
tend.  
Herkert said,"It is not a  
moneymaking venture. It's an expe­ 
rience you can't beat and looks great  
on a resume. Nonetheless AIESEC  
requires committed students."  
One such student is Joan De  
Crane , a fifth year Notre Dame engi­ 
neering student.  
De Crane participated in the  
AIESEC exchange in Lodz, Poland  
duringjuly and August of 1984.  
"I went to Austria on the In­ 
nsbruck program," said De  
Crane,"and became interested in  
going abroad. The AIESEC experi­ 
ence is different, however, from  
traveling because you get to see  
things as they really are."  
De Crane was placed i1 a textile  
mill where she learned about  
machines and the assembly process.  
Commenting on the unstable  
Polish environment De Crane  
said,"Martial law was not i··. exis­ 
tence when I was there. S(;lidarity  
was alive though. No one, however,  
would mention it out loud. The  
Polish people believe in five or six  
years solidarity will either be very  
successful or it will die forever. They  
believe that the fighting between  
liberals and conservatives hurt the  
movement."  
She added,"People knew  
thought the Socialist movement was  
absurd. The people also realized that  
the products they were producing  
were ofinferior quality."  
According to De Crane, the Polish  
economic system lacked common  
sense. "Things like butter were ra­ 
tioned which weren't in short  
supply."  
De Crane had little difficulty re­ 
ceiving her visa into the country.  
She also noted the friendliness ofthe  
Polish people saying,"I made a lot of  
good friends."  
AIESEC Reception Officer De  
Crane said,"The most important  
thing I learned was ~at we are lucky  
enough to be born in the United  
States. We should never feel that  
things here are too hard. We have so  
many opportunities to do whatever  
we want."  
De Crane said that AIESEC mem·  
bers applying for traineeships  
should stress their capabilities to  
their company because employers  
are often afraid to offer foreign stu·  
dents greater responsibilities. Spending up  1.,,,, 1  
in 1984's last quarter  1 1  
Associated Press  ~ 

WASHINGTON -The nation's economy got "a real kick" from con­sumer spending in the last quarter of 1984 to cause the sharpest annual growth rate in more than three decades and prompt Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige to proclaim "everything is on course." 
President Reagan, told of the report in advance, had been unable \ to restrain himself Monday night , during a tour of inauguration balls and said one of the Commerce De­partment figures released yesterday would be the best since 1951. 
That turned out to be the 6.8 per­cent 1984 growth rate, which got a ., boost at the end from revision ofthe ., fourth quarter estimate from 2.8 1 
percent to 3.9 percent. That fourth quarter figure is subject to yet an­other adjustment next month. 
The 1951 growth rate was 8.3 per­cent. 
Prayer 

..------------------------~----------_..----~-----~-~~-----­
Accent 
Wednesday, january 23, 1985-page 6 
Girl with vertical hair may opt for Morning 'Do 
by Joe Kapitan 
}eatures staff writer 
A 
strange thing happened in theology class the other day. I could not fall asleep. Not knowing how to deal with this novel situa­tion, I decided to to try concentrat­ing on the lecture. Feeling restless, I began to glance around the auditorium. It seemed that I was the only one suffering from insomnia. And then I saw her· the Girl with the Vertical Hair. 
Not wanting to stare at her, I looked away. My curiosity got the best ofme and I glanced her way again. Yep, it was still sticking up. I could not understand this. Had gravity reversed itself lately? Had the wind begun blowing upward from the ground? I suddenly felt an incredible urge to smooth her hair down with the nearest heavy ob· ject. 
She was not the only one, either. There were several other Spikcheads scattered among the class, as well as a few Bowlcuts and Rat· tails. The Rat· tails really both­ered me because I could swear I heard their little voices inside my head, pleading with me to cut them offand set them free. lfl had been carrying a pair ofscissors, it would have been a messy scene. 
I sat there, stunned. What had 
happened to these innocent stu· 

I dents? Was it cruel experimentation 
r performed by blind · folded barber 
school students? Or was it the result 
ofaccidents involving power tools? 
Determined to get to the bottom of 
this mystery, I decided to do a little 
investigating of my own. 
The next day, I disguised myself in baggy pants and an Army jacket and entered The Nazz, where I proceeded to "hang out." Soon I spotted them · a group ofaverage · looking students talking in the corner. Confident of my disguise, I moved closer. Suddenly, I was paralyzed with fear. One of them had noticed me. Thinking fast, I flashed them a peace sign and said, "No nukes, man. Cut defense spend· ing. Save the whales." I was in· stantly accepted into the group and was asked if I would consider being a Democratic candidate for the presidency in I988. I was not feeling well. 
I followed them to a "salon" in town. The sign read "Exclusive Hair Creations by Mr. jerome." The hair on my neck began to crawl. Cautiously, I followed them inside. I was shocked. The interior was filled with mirrors and tropical plants. A Village People song pervaded the air. 
Mr. jerome greeted us in a satin shirt, unbuttoned to his navel. Grab­bing one member of the group, he approached what looked like a bath tub. Sensing trouble, I moved closer. The victim had entered the tub. Mr. jerome filled it with water and, with a giggle of joy, picked up several small electrical appliances and dropped them in. In a second, it was over. 
It all made sense now. Don King. Tina Turner. Buckwheat. It was all so simple· one good jolt of electricity could turn anyone into a Spikehead. And with the invention ofstylin~ "mousse," (which is French for "glue") anyone can make their hair permanently verti· cal in the privacy oftheir own home. Once again, technology is at the heart ofthe problem. 
It is time to make a stand. Enough is enough. Let's stamp out techno · hairdos and return to Nature's way· The Morning 'Do. Tomorrow mor­ning, when you wake up, don't touch your hair. Look in the mirror. Overnight, Mother Nature has created a work ofart. You can be sure that no one else will have a hairdo just like yours. Each day brings an exciting new creation. No two are ever the same. One mor­ning, it might be fluffy on the sides but flat on top, as if someone dropped an anvil on your head. The next day, it might be pressed flat on one side but puffy on the other, which makes it look like you spent the night standing sideways in a wind tunnel. The possibilities are endless. You are guaranteed ofa 
l Associates gain respect for life 
~ 
r by John Affieck 
r 
features staff writer
r 
"J got a really deep and true sense oflifc being a gift," said 

~ 
r John Fitzpatrick, Assistant Rector of r Cavanaugh Hall. "You recognize r that especially ifyou suffer or the 
r 
people around you are suffering."

,.. 
Fitzpatrrick, a 198I Notre Dame 

r 
graduate, reflected on his two and a r half year commitment to the Holy
r 
r Cross Associates in Nairobi, Kenya. "Kenya has the highest population
r 
growth rate in the world. Maternity

r 
r hospitals in Kenya arc two to a r bed," he said. "You see people dying constantly, too. One night I 
r 
~ 
took a guy to the hospital with a r bullet wound to his head which he received from a thug. "When you see life given and taken without thought you see how
r 
F 
fragile it is · and that anything you have is a gift." Like most Associates, 
,.. Fitzpatrick considers it a great gift to have participated in the Holy
r 
r Cross Program. Often ignored, the Holy Cross Associates Program is an alternative for Notre Dame and St. Mary's graduates who want to serve God and neighbor in a basic and substantial way. 
lbe Program began in I978 with the Portland, Oregon community. Since then, HCA community have expanded to a total offour in the United States: Portland, Oregon, Hayward, California, Colorado Springs, Colorado and Avondale, Arizona. To date, 109 people have completed their service In the U.S.A., while 24 others are currently participating In one year HCA pro­grams In America. Currently, HCA also sends associates abroad to El Translto and Santiago, Chile for two and a half year commitments. 
Associate living conditions vary with each program, but generally conditions are both simple and sufficient. "Our house in Santiago (the capital ofChile) was a very 

comfortable five bedroom house," 
said Stacy Hennessy, a 198I Notre 
Dame graduate and former Associ­
ate in Chile. 
In the rural areas ofChile, condi­tions were rougher. "It was kind of like living in the U.S. at the turn of the century," said Hennessy. "There was no electricity except for bat­tery for battery -powered radios. You were thrown into a time warp." 
Any discomfort brought on by living conditions however, seems to have been negated by a sense of community. "Community life with five other people who are sup­portive makes it a lot easier to do service," said Mimi McKelley, a 1983 graduate ofSt. Mary's who served a one year commitment in Avondale, Arizona. 
While at Avondale, a poor mi­grant community, McKelley also noticed a strong bond between the community at large and the As­sociates. "There was a real experl. ence ofparish," she said. "When we moved in there was nothing in the house. People just came up to us and gave us lamps and things. By the second day we had to give stuff away." 
Many ofthe jobs held by As­sociates in the program involve teaching in some capacity. Hen­nessy and Fitzpatrick both taught during their commitments. Hen­nessy taught seventh and eighth graders, while Fitzpatrick in­structed pre-college level students in economics. HCA also offers a good deal ofother social service jobs, as well as some peace and justice work. 
Mimi McKelley, for instance, established a new position at Avondale-she was coordinator of an interdenominational Emergency Assistance Program. "It provided everything from food to clothing to legal assistance," she said. "Avondale is the last McDonald's before the desert and often migrant workers simply run out ofgas out there. They need money to get somewhere with facilities to assist them." 
In speaking with the Associates, it seems there are more rewards in HCA than hardships. "The most exciting thing was discovering the universality of man," said Hennessy. "You can commune with another person even though you might not speak their language. There is some­thing universal between people and I think that quality is the desperate need to love and be loved. As Chris­tians we have been loved by God and we can share that." 
"Notre Dame and St. Mary's graduates take very influential position in our society," Fitzpatrick observed. "Ifour grads have an experience like this -getting a braoder, more just view ofthe world -then when they become influential it will be reflected in the society, hopefully." 
The application deadline for 
I985 graduates ofND and SMC is 
February I. HCA has a fairly 
rigorous acceptance process in­
cluding several interviews and a 
lengthy written application. 
However difficult the process may be, former Associate agree that the Holy Cross Associate Program should be recommended highly to graduates. "Maybe you don't know it when you go down there," said Hennessy. "But no matter how much you give, it does more good for you than you do for the situa­tion." 
"I worked hard," said John Fitzpatrick. "But whatever you do there you get it back a thousand­fold." 

totally individual look every day, and it requires no effort on your part. 
Think of the money you could save. No more blow dryers. No more curling irons. No more jars of styling mousse. And best ofall, no more thirty dollar visits to Mr. 

jerome, which would force him and 
all his satin -shirted friends out of business. They would pack up and return to San Francisco, Vertical Hair would lie flat again as it should, and the world would be happy once 
more. 

Except for those Rat -tails. Oh well, first things first. 
New Edition, new heroes 
Associated Press 
A
bout four years ago, Ralph 
Tresvant recalls, he and four 
pals barely into their teens 
polished up theirjackson Five 
routine and entered a talent 
contest hoping to win some 
money "to go to the movies or 
to go out and eat pizza." 
The scheme worked -perhaps 
too well. Today, Tresvant and his 
colleagues in New Edition are 
becoming as well known as their 
one-time inspirations. In fact, 
New Edition's I983 hit, "Candy 
Girl," was No. I on music charts 
at a time when Michael jackson's 
"Beat It" was No. 2. 
With Tresvant's silky adoles­
cent tenor on lead, "Cool It 
Now" recently cracked the Top 
5 on the pop charts. 
So pocket money is no longer 
a problem for the quintet -ran­
ging in age from I 5 years old to 
1 7 years old -who grew up to· 
gether in Boston's inner city 
Roxbury district. 
But the pizza parlors and movie palaces where they once planned to spend their windfall are off limits, because their recent public appearances have drawn fans by the thousands and caused near-riots. 
In Los Angeles, 2,000 people spent the rainy Saturday after Thanksgiving waiting for New Edition outside a record store. In North Carolina, a shopping mall banned promotional events after some 5,000 teen-agers showed up for a similar in-store promo­tion by the band. 
New Edition mania has caught a lot ofpeople by surprise, in­cluding the group's members. But in retrospect, Tresvant has an explanation. 
"The kids our age really didn't have anyone to look up to, to idolize," he said, sitting at a hotel room table with bandmates Michael Bivins and Ronald De Voe. 

"The girls didn't have a group that they could go screaming after," Tresvant continued. "They had a lot ofactors, hut they didn't really have any sing~ ers their age that they could say, 'I want to marry him someday.' So we came in at the right time.'' 
"We never fantasized anything like this," added Bivins, who looks younger than his 16 years but has one of tht: deeper voices in the group. 
"We just wanted to enter for the money part, to get the prizes. That's all we were heading for. We all wanted to he known around the Boston area · the regional action-but that's as big as we wanted it, really. Then it took off nationally and it still hasn't hit us just yet." 
In the 1981 talent show where they got their big break, they were one of82 acts that each had five minutes to impress the judges. Only the winner was supposed to get a record deal, and New Edition came in second. But producer Maurice Starr, who sponsored the show, saw in them as potential "Jacksons of the '80s," and he had them record the "Candy Girl" single and album for the independent Streetwise label. 
However, Starr did not sign the youths to a multi-album deal, so they were immediately picked up by MCA records, which brought in several pro· ducers for the "New Edition" album, including Ray ParkerJr., Michael Sembello and Dick Rudolph and the team ofVincent Brantley and Rick Timas, who were responsible for "Cool It Now.". 
-
VieW~_O_i_n__t_______ ay,_Jan_u ..........e_7_
w_ed_ne_sd.... ..... pag
ary._2_3,_19_ss 

America has the ability 
to stop famine in Africa 
The holiday season now far behind, most of truly change the course of hunger in Africa. us are settled into our places, ready to enter While the drought makes Africa appear much into the routine of a new semester. In this at­like a desert wasteland, the continent never­mosphere it is sometimes easy to forget the theless possesses enormous agricultural 
plight of those not as fortunate as we. capacity. According to a study by the U.S. Nowhere is this more evident than in Africa. Agency for International Development, While Westerners have generously given Africa's empty farmlands, if properly from their hearts and pockets for the famine­developed, could feed Africa and all of West­stricken victims in Ethiopia during the last ern Europe as well. The study estimated that several months. there are good indications Zaire, Zambia and Zimbabwe alone could 
potentially feed all of Africa if properly 
developed. Success in this area is not unprece­
Pau1 Komyatte 
dented. Not long ago, the recurring hunger 
crit:s common in Africa were also heard in In­
tree speech dia. Once considered a land where famine 
would rule by the 1980s, India is now self­
sufficient in food production. 
that Africa will need even more food aid in the Africa is still in an early stage of its recent 
upcoming year and that the famine problem is evolution. When john F. Kennedy was cam­
worsening. • paigning for the presidency, only 10 nations in 
The United Nation's Food and Agriculture Africa were independent. Since then more Organization recently issued a report warning than 40 African countries have gained inde­that African nations will require almost twice pendence. While it is easy to blame the cur­as much food aid in the coming year ( 5.2 mil­rent hunger problem on the inexperience of lion tons) than they needed last year ( 2.9 mil­these newly independent countries, it is im­lion tons). The United Nations reports that portant to remember that the United States more than 35 million Africans are facing faced many serious problems after its own starvation, calling their plight "the worst birth. Many outside international observers human disaster in the recent history of predicted the new nation's life span would be Africa." In Ethiopia alone, 6 to 10 million of short. Twenty-five years is only a moment in the country's 42 million people face death the life ofa nation state. With more long-term from starvation. This is equivalent to one out assistance and development efforts, these in­of every five Americans facing starvation. Im­fant African nations may be able to follow the agine one-fifth of all the people you know successful path oflndia. dying because they have no food to eat. 
In the face of such suffering, the reaction Although recent reports that the Ethiopian from the rich world has not always been posi· government blocked the delivery of tons of tive. Solving the problem of famine depends food aid to areas ofcivil war are discouraging, not so much on the raw amount of food the U.S. decision not to threaten a cease in aid available in the world as it does on overcom­shipments as a means offorcing the Ethiopian ing what experts in the news media call the government to distribute food more evenly is "mego" factor. "Mego" stands for "my eyes a positive step. Continued efforts to reach the glaze over" and represents the reaction offar starving as well as attempts to work through too many members of the rich world when the United Nations in depoliticizing food aid told the famine problem is worsening. Despite will most effectively help fight famine. The the publicity the food aid response to Ethiopia adoption of serious long-term development has received, the plain fact is that the effort programs that would educate and train came too late. It wasn't until the West was Africans to tap the full potential of their con­exposed to live footage ofsufferingin Ethiopia tinent would, in turn, help eliminate some of that aid began to flow in large amounts. If the fundamental problems that lead to famine. warnings of the impending famine had been heeded earlier, a million Ethiopians who died In a speech before the U.N. General Assem­ofstarvation last year might still be alive. bly in 1973, West German Chancellor Willy· 
The problem in overcoming the "mego" Brandt made an eloquent plea for helping the factor lies in communicating the problem to world's hungry: "Morally it makes no differ­people of comparative wealth. These people ence whether a man is killed in war or is con­are not so much unconcerned as they are demmed to starve to death by the indifference simply unaware of the mounting crisis. Too of others." We have the ability to eliminate often, they lose sight of the intense suffering hunger in Ethiopia as well as in the rest of and the human urgency that lie behind hunger Africa. In 1983, U.S. farmers produced a grain statistics. When they do contribute to a cause surplus of350 million tons. The 5 million tons such as Ethiopia, they fail to realize that the of food aid which Africa needs next year is problem has not gone away. Indeed, the crux only a little over 1 percent of this enormous of the hunger dilemma lies in convincing the surplus. America has within her grasp enough rich world that effective solutions need to be surplus grain to singlehandedly meet the long-term efforts to revitalize Africa itself. African food requirement dozens of times While much attention recently has been over. By extending more food aid to meet the focused on Ethiopia's plight, Kenya and Sudan needs of the hungry, we can pave the way for are quickly approaching points of crisis. The more effective long-term development strate­FAO estimates that 21 African nations in all gies. These strategies can then rebuild Africa's will require urgent food aid in the months farmlands and food-generating capacity so ahead. Africa not only needs immediate that the recent tragedy in Ethiopia will not be amounts of food aid, but it needs long-term repeated. programs which will enable it to reroute its current tragic courst:. Paul Komyatte is a junior and a regular 
Jnng-tt:rm programs have the potential to Viewpoint columnist. 
Viewpoint wants to bearfrom you. Ifyou 
have an opinion, brlllant insight or 
humorous comment concerning anything 
appearing In The Observer just send a let­
ter toP.O.Box Q. 
Viewpoint 
Policy 


-
ONE GIANT ~"FOR MANKIND 
Continuing with school may be the best idea yet 
Even the most understanding parents usually expect to see something concrete done with a college education for which they probably spent thousands ofhard-earned dol­lars. Many demand that the the recipient of this education find some form ofemployment. As a result, the task of finding a job is part of most senior lives these days. Being a Rhodes 
Mark Boennighausen 
Gravity is a myth 
Scholar, entering military service, or going on to law or medical school may keep some people out ofthe job hunt for a time, but most seniors do go through the process. 
It is a process that I have found to be less enjoyable than producing a 50-page term paper on the possibility of nuclear war begin­ning with a terrorist threat to destroy the Hoosier Dome. 
Personally, I had no problems with the preliminaries involved. I did my goal self­analysis as suggested by the helpful career placement people and discovered exactly what type ofwork I wanted. The results ofmy analysis were: a job with a high salary coupled with challenging and interesting work. Fur­thermore, the job needs to be located in some warm part of the country. South Bend is definitely not in the running. 
After this brillant deduction, I created my resume. Although somewhat more difficult then the self-analysis, the finished product did turn out well. I was able to summarize my work experience neatly and succintly on one eight-by-eleven piece of paper. The descrip­tion ofmy varied summer and school employ­ment sounds very impressive when the correct creative phrases are used. For exam­ple, the experience and skills gained by being a salesperson for a garden center are many when one reflects on the exact nature of the job. Specifically, "interfacing between the customer and the merchandise" (this descrip­tion was used to emphasize my technical background) was just one of the skills I developed during by tenure at the neighbor­hood garden complex. 
Resume in hand, I entered the somewhat strange world of the job interview. A world where every action can be sign of a person's competence or incompetence. To be prepared, I practiced keeping eye contact with my friends, all who thought I was stranger than usual. Also, I tried to work on my handshaking technique by firmly shaking hands with anybody I saw during the sign of peace at Sunday Mass. Finally the fateful day arrived -the first interview. 
It was a disaster. 
From the first handshake I knew I was in trouble. I shook firm and so did he, but when I was ready to let go he was not. Consequently I hadtto reshake and wait for him to let go. I knew'I had already lost points because of my improper handshake etiquette. My assertive­ness was destroyed. When we finally reached the interviewing cubicle and sat down, I went quickly for the eye contact to establish my in­terest in him and the firm. Much to my dismay, the interviewer had a wandering eye and thus I didn't know with which eye to keep contact. The first dynamic question of "tell me about yourself," propelled me into a meandering monologue which included a discussion of my growing up a military brat and interesting personal tibits such as the fact that I love people, chocolate cake and small animals. When our time was mercifully up, my confi­dence in ever finding a job was markedly less, although the fact that I did do better with the concluding handshake gave me some hope for improvement. 
The pleasant form rejection letter two weeks later was not surprising, but it never­theless was disappointing. Succeeding inter­views have gone better, but they still remain somewhat ofa chore. Continual comments by interviewers about life in the "real world" makes me wonder if it is "real cold" that as­saults my body when I step outside of my door. Despite some bad experiences it now appears that I may have done well enough to secure at least one job offer. 
The pressure ofgiving the "right" responses in an interview is much less now than when I first started. Experience is the best cure for the interview jitters, but 45 minute chats that are supposed to tell the interviewer about you, and you about the company and the job, remain not one of my favorite chores. 
Maybe Mom was right, law school isn't such a bad idea. 
Mark Boennighausen is a senior govern­ment major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 

- 
Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager. .  . ..... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor . .  . Mark Worscheh  Controller ..............Dave Stephenitch  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  News Editor ...  ..... Sarah Hamilton  Advertising Manager . ...... Anne Culligan  - 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor .  ...... Dan McCullough  Circulation Manager.  . ..... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  Saint Mary's Editor  .. Anne Monastyrski  Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Sports Ed1tor...  . Michael Sullivan  Production Manager. ........ Chris Bowler  
of a maJority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Viewpoint Editor  ......... Dave Grote  Project Manager . . .  . ... Amy Stephan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the  Features Editor  ...... Mary Healy  
community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters,  Photo Editor.  . .. Pete Laches  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------~-------------------------·· ··-­
Sports Briefs 
Bengal Bouts trainingcontinues today and every day at 3:45 p.m. in the boxing room at the ACC. Anyone who is interested may anend; no experience is necessary. ·The Observer 
The Notre Dame Men's Rowing Club will be meeting for a workout today at 9:30 p.m. in the ACC Fieldhouse. The novice men will be meeting tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the ACC Fieldhouse. ·The Observer 
The ND Women's Fastpitch Softball ctub will be meeting for practice today at 10 p.m. Anyone who is inter· ested in playing hut unahle to anend the practice session should call Mara at .283·4583 or jackie at .283·4541. ·The Observer 
-
Classifieds 
I 

Wednesday,Janmiry 23, 1985--page 8 
The Sairit Mary's swim team will compete 
against Calvin College today at 7 p.m. at Washington High School in South Bend. Directions to the meet are available at the Angela Ath· letic Facility. ·The Observer 
An off-season volleyball team is heing 
formed at Saint Mary's. Any interested Saint Mary's students may anend an information meeting today at 3:30 p.m. in the lounge at the Angela Athletic Facility. ·The Observer 
Interhall basketball officials will be meeting tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC. · The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 10 

Hockey 
continuedfrom page 12 
In the goaltending department, senior AI Haverkamp is listed as Smith's prohahle starter. 
Chapman continues to lead Irish scorers with .23 goals and 19 assists. Tim Reilly, his linemate and fellow senior, is second with 14 goals and 22 assists. Junior co-captain Boh Thebeau has 3.2 points on 16 goals and 16 assists. 
After tonight's game, Notre Dame will practice for the remainder of the week, and then take the weekend off to rest and recuperate hefore beginning preparations for two games at Huntsville the follow· ing weekend. 
Tbe Obserz•er Notrt: Damt: olfkt:. lo<.:att:d on tht· third floor of l.afortunt· Student Ct·ntt:r. acn·pts da.sifit:d advatbin!( from') a.rn. until ·t p.m.. :\'londay through Friday The Obs(•rz•er Saint Mary·,. off'i<.:c locatt:d on tht· third floor of Haggar Collc:gt· Ct:ntt:r. accepts classifit·ds from I2· .~0 p rn until .~ p 111.. ~!on· day though Friday. lkadlinc for nt·xt·da\· clas"l't·ds is .~ p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid. eitht'f in person or hy mail. ( :hargt· is 10 <Tnts per five l'11arac· ters per dav. 
NOTICES  LOST: Men's high school class ring before break. Silver with blue cut stone. ln1hals on the ins1de.lf you have lound it, call Dave at 3049. Reward.  HELP! REWARD! LOST MY CHRISTMAS GIFT! I LOST MY LADIES GOLD WATCH FRI. NIGHT, POSSIBLY AT THE SUBURBS CONCERT. PLEASE  Why RENT when its cheaper to BUY? Cozy house three blocks from campus is lor sale. Call234·0465 for details.  SOPHOMORES!!!! Skating Party· Wednesday, Jan. 23, at the ACC rink. From 10:15 to 12;15pm Only $1 for rentals: come and bring your  MR. GOODWENCH IS COMING!!!! MR. GOODWENCH IS COMING!!!! WAIT FOR HIM SOON  
SPRING BREAK in Daytona Beach from $89. South Padre lrom $78, Mustang Is· land/Port Aransas $119. Steamboat Spnngs sk1ing from $79. HURRY "Break trom the Books" call Sunchase Tours toll free lor more 1ntorma· t1on 1·800·321· 5911 or contact a Sunchase Campus Representative or your local Travel Agency TODAY! GOVERNMENT JOBS. $15,000 • $50,000/y., poutble. All occup• Ilona. How to find. Call 801H187-6000, Exi.R·9999. EXPERT TYPING 277·8534 AFTER 5:30 ' EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL  Lost: My 1.0.. my driver's liscence. and (heavy sigh) my senior bar card all encased in that green thii]Q for I.D.'s Please help me • I'm gelling hungry! Call Mo. at3624. IF YOU LOST GLOVES IN ROOM 356 FITZPATRICK,CALL NAJI AT 1743PROPER IDENTIFICATION OF GLOVES IS REQUIRED. FOUND: IMITATION RHINESTONE NECKLACE BEHIND POST OFFICE BEFORE BREAK. CALL 277·6740 TO CLAIM YOUR PRECIOUS GEMS.  CALL WANDA at 4058.HELP! LOST: Retriever Collie· age: 7 years. The dog is golden with a black stripe on tail and it has black markings around eyes and muzzle. The dog's name is "Winston". If located please call 277· 5828 or 272·6920. LOST: Black wool coat at a party. Friday night at Turtle Creek. If found please con· tact me at 1090: NO questions asked. FOR RENT  BOOKS 4 SALE: 'CELL BIOLOGY' AND 'HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY' CALL 3336. a· x 12' rust carpet, good condition, 1 yr. old, reg. pile, $45; Ask for David, at 4358. TICKETS NEED SYRACUSE BASKETBALL TICK· ETS DESPRATELY!!!! PLEASE CALL 277·8497 NEED 6 Syracuse GA's. Call Steve 1163 NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR SYRACUSE GAME. CALL at 2073.  friends! Sponsored by the Class of '87 SOPHOMORES!!! "Break your New Year's Resolution· Study Break Upstairs at LaFortune from 11 to 12, Thurs., Jan 24. Free Bonnie Doon Sundae Bar and a performance by a belly·dancer will be leatured. Come celebrate the New Year!!! Sponsored by the Class of '87 lntro. to Computer Syatema FOR SALE: Business Computer Systems textbook by Kroenke. along with study guide. A $30.00 value .... get it today for $18.00. Call Mark at 2045.  1919191919191919191919191919 1919 1919 19191919 LISA CONBOY. HERE'S HOPING YOU HAVE THE UL· TIMATE BIRTHDAY OF BIRTHDAYS!!! LOVE, THE ONE & ONLY BOD QUAD IT WAS 73 DEGREES IN KEY WEST YESTERDAY. IT WILL BE HOTIER THAN THAT SATURDAY NIGHT AT McCANDLESS' BEACH PARTY 9PM· 2AM BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN& WON'T BE AT McCANDLESS' BEACH PARTY SAT. NIGHT FROM 9·2AM. HOWEVER, HE ENCOURAGES ALL TOATIEND... AND WHEN THE BOSS TALKS, PEOPLE LIS· TEN.  
MRS. COKER, 233-70011. WordprOC8SSing and typ1ng • 272·8827. NEED TYPING, CAU DOLORES 277­1045 PICK UP AND DELIVERY Where is Gino's East? TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8897 TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  LOST: MY DARK GREY-BLACK TWEED LONG OVERCOAT...STILL!!! IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL JIM AT 283· 1156, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. LOST AT SENIOR BAR DURING THE PRIVATE PARTY LAST TUESDAY. AND I'M GETIING PRETTY DAMN COLD!!! Lost· on 12/16/84, in 116 O'Shag, a watch with a white face. Roman numerals and a black strap. If found, please call 2634. The watch was a graduation pres· ent and is of great sentimental value. LOST: One tear-shaped gold earring be­tween Lewis and the Credit Union.. 11  Nice furnished homes for next school year. 277·3604. Furnished home available now half mile north of campus. 277·3604. TWO.FOUR MAN APARTMENT TO SUBLEASE FEB·MAY LOCII!ed behind Turtle Creek oH of Edleon. Within 1 mile from NO. Seml­lurnlahed, quiet, apacloua, rea•onablell Call Dorene at 277·1306 or Llu Marie at 239-5313 to leave mMN'ile.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$NEED 3 SYRACUSE GA'S. WILL PAY GOOD MONEY. CALL MARY BETH AT 3723. HELP! Need 2 NO-Syracuse tix. Call 1570. NEEDED 3 DAYTON TX. CALL 277·8577 NEED 4 GA'S FOR SYRACUSE GAME CALL LAURIE 1256 I need GA'• and 1 •tudent ticket for the February 9 Syracuae gamel Pleeae call Sueat2914.  Jerry, Ever since we met that one night, Dancln'ln the Dark, I knew that you were my Lucky Star. I have searched For the LongMt Time for someone like you. We have only had The BMI of TlmM and 1 know that you are All I Need. I can't tell you how much I Feel For You. You're My ln•plratlon and you Colour My World. Now that I've found you there will be No More Lonely Nlghta. I Trulybelieve that We Belong together. So Jerry Hold Ma Now and Let'• Pretend We're Married I love you! Happy Birthday! T.L.U.  JIM DREELY· JUST THOUGHT I'D SAY HI-HAVE A HAPPY DAY! TO THE BLONDE·HAIRED WHO PICKED UP MY WALLET AT BEN· DIX WHILE TUBING,THANKS FOR SAYING YOU KNEW ME WHEN YOU DIDN'T. HOW ABOUT RETURNING MY I.D.'SSOICANEAT. BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY McCANDLESS HALL SAT JAN.26, g. 2AM BEACH PARTY  
TYPING  found please call Anne 2624  WANTED • Female housemate for a 4·  When is this test ever going to end?  
JACKIE BOGGS  bedroom home located 1 0 minutes from  
684-67113 We need your helpI  "LOST": One long, black, woof coat. II you '1ound" it in the Commons last Mon. night, would you please return it to the Lost and Found in the Ad. Min. Bldg? If you're not. Willing to do so, would you at least return my room key, millens or any other item  campus. $150 per month includes utilities. 239-5930 or 291·9644 DO 4 SEXY WOMEN INTEREST YOU? IF INTERESTED IN LIVING ACROSS THE HALL FROM THEM .... CALL PAUL AT 2545 ... YOU'LL THANK ME!I  PERSONALS YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL BODY AND ARE WORTH THE WORLD  MAKE MONEY !! SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS TO PANDORA'S FOR $$ OR CREDIT ! PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 SO.BEND AVE. 233·2342.  GET THAT THING OUT OF MY FACE: I CAN'T BEAR TO LOOK AT IT! Hey K1ng Riser, tell us. After you leave this place. are you really going to get heated everyday I!!  
OMBUDSMAN ORGANIZATIONAL  you do not desire to keep? It's a COLD world out there. but I'm trying to keep a  HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THE YELLOW SUB AT 272-4453. MQ.TH B·  Just probing my dear!!!!l!  
MEETING Wed,_.y JoinUifrY 23, 7:30PM Room 20 U.Fortune The New York nmes! It's not too late to order the New York Times for campus delivery. The New York Times. the world's greaterst newspaper Will be delivered to your room, offica, carroll, department. mailbox or any other place on campus at 30/ off the newstaand price. Contact George Devenny at 145 Stanford 283· 2094  warm heart about it! FOUND: STUDENT BASKETBALL TICKETS (LOWER ARENA) AT SENIOR BAR ON THURSDAY. CALL CAROLYN AT 277-4324 TO CLAIM THEM. LOST: Key chain with 4 or 5 keys lost at Soph. Super Bowl party. Key holder is black and gold. Has 324 mail key. Call Mark at 3828 if found. LOST: N.D. 10 CASE WITH SCHOOL 10, IND DRIVER'S LICENSE, AND OTHER VALUABLES. IF FOUND. PLEASE CON· TACT LESLIE AT: 283-4648. REWARD OFFERED.  WANTED Need ride to New Orleans for Christmas Break. Can leave anytime after Decem· bar 20. Call Paul COLLECT at (312)388· 6458. DEPENDABLE PART· TIME WAITRESS WANTED. MUST BE 21. FOR APPT., CALL 28~031, ORIGINAL CONEY IS· LAND REST. ROOMMATE WANTED  LAMBCHOP And so is the GOOSE! Tough lrlendlll..t longer. INTERESTED IN SOME NIGHT WORK! Join The Oburver production depart­ment. L.ayoutat.aH people work 2 houra per week. Opportunity for fldvanC&­ment. Stop up to our Notre Dame office and fill out an application. SAVE MONEY!! PURCHASE YOUR TEXTS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 SOUTH BEND AVE. ,NEXT TO CORBY'S BAR. 233·2342.  11pm FR·SA 8pm·1 am Pool Tournament Beginning Feb. 1 Signup in pool room. ATIENTION We, the Woman of NO/SMC would all llketowtah · Chrla Ryan A Happy 21al Birthday!!I From Erin, Trlaha, Colleen, MaryBeth, Allee, Ellen, Ther..., L-1• Hall, Sue, Margaret, Cathy, Marla, Steph, Jenny, Anne, Wal•h Hall, Carolyn, Debbie,  Happy Birthday, Ronl Save me some cake, will ya? P.S. Can I have your 10 now? Old you ever went me to love you? Did you ever want me to care? Disregard my nervousness Please ignore my vacant stares Just what I been through Is nothing like what I'm going to Give me some sign to pursue A promise ·The Violent Femmes  
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS appli· cation deadline IS February 1 More Info at Center lor Social Concerns' GOVERNMENT JOBS. $15,000 $50,000/yr. poss1ble All occupations. Call 805-687·6000 Ext. R·9834 lor infor·  Lost Black Wallet. call Steve 5759 Reward LOST Single Strand PEARL NECKLACE on campus PLEASE CALL Jodie 1669  ROOMMATE WANTED ROOMMATE WANTED ROOMMATE WANTED JAN·MAY LOCIIIed behind Turtle Creek  oH  of  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  Heather, etc., etc. Chrt• Ryan will be accepting con­gratulation• on hla 21at birthday all week In room 217 Holy Croaa. II you can't •top by, Ju•t give him a call at 3136111  AAAAH! To NJ guys on Oh1o Turnpike: Thanks for the cocktail offer' Sorry we had to run! The PA gals.  
malion ATIENTION DANCERS. Open auditions for new student company are Sunday at 7:30 PM 1n Reg1na Stud1o. All styles and techniques are welcome No experience necessary!!!  HELPII has anyone found basketball tick· ets for bleacher section 102 (I think)?? PLEASE call Dave at 1245 or at 1352 LOST: A Blue LEVI's Jean Jacket (Size 40) at Corfly's on Friday Jan. 18th. If found Please call Mike at 1223.  Edlaon. Within 1 mile from NO. Semi· furnished, quiet, apaclou•. reaaonablell TRANSPORTATION NEEDED! Call Carol at 2n·1306. NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND ON WEEKEND OF FEB. 2,3. CAN POS· SIBLY LEAVE THURSDAY. CALL MIKE  MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student Loans $20·200 1 percent Interest · 30 Days Basement LaFortune 11 :3()..12:30 M·F Campu• Cruude for Crom  LOST: MAN'S WATCH BLACK STRAPE, GOLD BORDER AND BLACK FACE.  Ted Smith for God. Remember, cleanli· ness is next to Tedliness. Shiek·eroo Here's your ad It's official Cas· tellano and Perez Whoa! 'member the New Year,bitz. Luv, Jezebel  
LOST: MAN'S WATCH AT THE ACC OR  AT 1688.  announces that two guest lecturers will be  SENTIMENTAL VALUE  
ON THE WAY BACK TO THE MIDDLE OF THE CAMPUS. BLACK STRAPE,  NEED  RIDE  TO  U  OF  ILL  THIS  here this Friday. Famous cleric/fighter Phoenix and the awesome Sven Subotai  CALL 1504  This IS only a guess  
- LOST/FOUND A TIENTION: LOST. at Sen10< Bar· 1 dar~ grey 0\/ercoat. With a brown/ black zlp·lr liner. Anyone who was at the private part) Tuesday mght (January 15) who ma1 have acCidently taken it please call me a1 283·1156, or else return It to the Senl01 bar lost-and lound.  GOLD BORDER, BLACK FACE. PIERRE CARDIN. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE RETURN IF FOUND. FOUND FOUND FOUND HEY DON'T CRY! IF YOU LOSE A GOLD IRISH RING A COUPLE OF DAYS AGO I FOUND IT, GIMMEACALLASAP AT 4008ASK FOR JOSUE SORRY I DIDN'T PLACED THE AD EARLIER  WEEKEND. CALL MARK AT 1133. lm going to ILLINOIS STATE or U of I this lridey. Need nders. Call Jim at at 1620. Need ride to I.U. Bloomington 1/25 Will share expenses· call Linda 3749. PLEASE! I NEED A RIDE OR RIDERS TO DAYTON OH AREA JAN 25·27. CALL SOON! CARRIE 3352  Will be speaking on Gnomes . Genoc1de vs. Euthanasia Lecture starts at midnight. Call Dagga lor details (216) 66&3208. Looking for a slam? I play a short club. RSVP Barb FREDFREDFREDISLEGAL ASPEN!!!ASPEN!I!ASPEN!!! SPRING BREAK '85  CCCChhhhhyyyaaaaaaaammmm· ppppiiloooonnnsss!! So Baker. did you ever remember what she looked like??? Yo Flo & B.O.: O.C. is the place to be next year. Is a dream a lie if it don't come true ? Or is  To the girl who wears the "•llnky" •hlrt.a, (L.P.). HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Happy 20th Birthday!!! love, the Turtleneck Quean SPRING BREAK IS COMING ........ ARE YOU READY? I AVOID THE RUSH AND  
LOST: N.D RUGBY LETIER JACKET BLUE AND BLACK WITH NAME 01\ INSIDE POCKET MISPLACED A1 BRIDGETI'S TUESDAY EVENING OR EARLY WEDNESDAY MORNING PLEASE RETURN NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CALL J.R. REID AT 277·7561.  LOST: I lost my student basketball ticket package at the DEPAUL game!! The tick· ets were only half mine and if I don't get them back soon the other owner wil make CHICKEN CHOU·MEIN out of me: BLEACHER, SECTION 102 ROW 11 Please Help !! CALL JOHN 3278  FOR  FOR SALE SALE: MINT-CONDITION  1973  CALL MIKE AT 283·3573 OR LARRY AT 283·3830 FOR INFO. A lillie boy stares through a bakery window: There are no jelly donuts for you today, only death.  it someth1ng worse?? The Boss Thank you St. Jude COLOR MY WORLD COLOR MY WORLD COLOR MY WORLD COLOR MY WORLD COLOR MY WORLD POP FARLEY WEEK '85 POP FARLEY WEEK  PLAN NOW FOR A WONDERFUL WEEK IN STEAMBOAT SPRINGS, COLORAOO...S. PADRE IS. LANO .... CORPUS CHRISTI ... OR, DAYTONA BEACHI PLENTY OF REASONABLE PACKAGES ARE WAITING. CALL RENE FOR MORE INFO AT1190.  
TAKAMINE  12·STRING  GUITAR.  '85  POP  FARLEY  WEEK  '85  WED:  
LOST: TAN LUGGAGE BAG with blue  LOST Rhinestone necklace on Sat. night,  SPRUCE TOP.  ROSEWOOD BACK &  UNDERCLASSWOMEN • Anyone inter·  MOVIE THURS: NAZZ NITE FRI: HALL  
straps: may have been left OUtSide Regma  the  19.  PLEASE  HELP  !!!!  SIDES, HC CASE. $250 OR BEST OF·  ested in helping with a Girl Scout Troop ?  DINNER SAT: DANCE DANCE DANCE  
Hall:contams mostly sweaters and 1eans  $$$$REWARD$$$$ Call Cindy at 272·  FER. CALL JIM, 288·5009, AFTER 5:30  -:-hursdays 2:30 • 5:00. Contact LORI at  TIL 3 AM COLOR MY WORLD COLOR  Pnncess Kristen. Belated happy birthday'  
if lound please call283·2545.  6084  PM  283·1345.  MY WORLD  I love you! Prince Charles  
..  

Wednesday, January 23, 1985 -page 9 



Aerodynamics  Computational Fluid Dynamics  
Aeroelasticity  Computer-Aided Design  
Bioengineering  Propulsion  
Combustion  Structural Dynamics  
Structures-Composites  

Individual Tuition & Fees are $1,452 per calendar year. Total financial aid per calendar year: $13,452 Center of Excellence in Rotary Wing Aircraft 
Fellowships $14,452 Lockheed/Georgia Tech Research Assistantships $ 7,500-Research Assistantships 
$10,000 All graduate students will participate in research. For further information contact: Dr. A.L. Ducoffe, Director School of Aerospace Engineering Georgia Institute of Technolo9ll Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-3000 


ball," said Henson, despite the fact it apparently cost Illinois a victory at Minnesota. "We had a seven-point lead with 2:11 to play but we had to keep shooting. Without the clock we would have won that game. It becomes a factor in close games. 
Henson's immediate concern, however, is Ohio State. The hot­shooting Buckeyes invade Illinois' Assembly Hall tonight. Illinois, which is tied for the Big Ten lead with Michigan at 4-2, has won 17 straight at home. Ohio State is only one-halfgame out of the lead with a 3-2 record. 
Action picks up tomorrow night 
The Observer /Ed Domansky

with Northwestern, 0-5, at Iowa, 3-2; 
Tbe Notre Dame hockey team, shown here earlier this month

Michigan State, 3-3, at Michigan; 
against Yale, plays host to Lake Forest tonight at the ACC. Ed

Indiana, 3-2, at Purdue, 3-3, and Wis­
Doman~ky previews the contest on page 12.

consin, 1-4, at Minnesota, 3-2. 
Georgetown still No. 1 
UNLV returns to Top Twenty 

Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following 
position: 
Accounts Payable Clerk 

e Must be a sophomore majoring in accounting. 
esalaried position_ 
Submit a resume to Dave Stephen itch, controller, by noon Wednesday, January 23. For more information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, La Fortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
All you have to do is sign up... 


The Observer needs layout staff people 
Stop up to our office and fill out an application 
3rdfloor, LaFortune Student Center 
televised victory over Maryland last Saturday, squeezed into the No. 20 position. 
"It's nice we're getting some recognition," said Tarkanian, whose team now is 13-2 on the season. 
Georgetown, the nation's only major unbeaten team, remained No. 1 in the poll and, for the fourth time in six weeks, the Hoyas received all 60 first-place votes and 1,200 points from the nationwide panel of sportwriters and broadcasters. 
Southern Methodist moved up a notch to second place, while Duke, ranked second for the past five weeks, dropped to fifth after suffer­ing two two-point overtime losses last week. 
St. John's, Georgetown's op­ponent Saturday, was in third place, followed by Memphis State. 
Illinois, 1 5-4 and 11th last week, jumped to sixth, while DePaul moved three places to seventh with 682 points, two more than North Carolina. Oklahoma and Oregon State, 13th and 14th last week, respectively, jumped to ninth and lOth this week. 
Oklahoma advanced after a vic­tory over then-No. 9 Kansas Satur­day despite all-American Wayman Tisdale being held to a career-low six points, while Oregon State im­proved to 14-1 with a 73-57 victory over Washington State. 
Syracuse, which was upset by Connecticut at home last weekend, fell from seventh to 11th. The Oran­gemen were followed by Louisiana Tech, Indiana, Villanova, Kansas, Georgia Tech, Tulsa, Michigan, Vir­ginia Commonwealth and Nevada­Las Vegas. 
Boston College, 11-5, which lost to three Big East Conference foes, two ofwhom were ranked, Villanova and St. John's, fell from the Top Twenty, as did Michigan State, 12-4, which lost two Big Ten Conference games to unranked teams, Iowa and Minnesota. 
Michigan, 12-2, rejoined the Top Twenty after falling from the rankings three weeks ago. 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 2Q-1&-1B-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Georgetown (60) 17-o 1200 2. So. Methodist 15-1 1108 3. St. John's 13-1 1080 4. MemphisSt. 13-1 1012 5. Duke 13-2 958 6. Illinois 15-4 729 7. DePaul 13-3 682 B. North Carolina 14-3 680 9. Oklahoma 13-4 651 10. OregonSt. 14-1 605 11. Syracuse 11-2 602 12. Louisiana Tech 15-1 598 
13. Indiana 11-4 465 
14. Villanova 12-3 433 15. Kansas 13-3 416 16. Georgia Tech 13-3 316 17. Tulsa 14-2 239 18. Michigan 12-3 157 19. Va. Commonweelth 12-2 108 20. Nev.-L.as Vegas 13-2 96 

Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS, Nev.-Not much had been heard from Nevada-Las Vegas Coach jerry Tarkanian or his players since an 82-46 rout by Georgetown last month knocked the Runnin' Rebels out of The Associated Press' Top Twenty basketball poll. But that's just the way an embarrassed Tarkanian wanted it. 
"I told the kids it was no time to talk, just keep quiet and play ball," Tarkanian said yesterday. "We've been very low key and we've been winning since then." 
Winners of 12 straight since the Georgetown debacle, Nevada-Las Vegas returned to the AP Top Twenty again in the latest weekly poll released yesterday. The Rebels, on the strength of a nationally 

The Observer 

Young team shows promise 
Women fencers find early success 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 

While a national title is not imme­diately on the mind of the Notre Dame women's fencing team, the Irish, with a ';-2 record in the early going, should prove to be competi­tive and fairly successful throughout the 1985 season, according to Head Coach Mike DeCicco. 
Despite the loss of senior co­captains Mary Shilts and Sharon DiNicola to graduation and the loss of last year's top seed, Pia Albertson, DeCicco Is optimistic about the prospects for this year and the near future. 
"This year's team is a good team," says DeCicco. "Overall, we're maybe a year away from a real good fencing team. And now we have talented women who want to come to Notre Dame." 
Among the top prospects for the present and the future is freshman foilist Molly Sullivan. Having won the national title in women's fencing in the 19-and-under division during the last two summers, she is cur­rently the top-seeded fencer on the Notre Dame team with an impres­sive 18-2 mark on the season. 
"At 18-2, Molly is the premier fen­cer on our team," says DeCicco. 
Returning monogram winners from last year's squad who will lend experience and talent include junior captain janet Sullivan and sop­homores Vittoria Quaroni and Cindy Weeks. 
The junior foilist enters this season with a 37-23lifetime record. After going 26-12 in 1984, she is off to a slow start in 1985 with a 9-11 mark. 
Quaroni and Weeks, both key fig­ures last year, have started out the season well. Quaroni, who finished 14-9 a year ago, is 8-9 so far into the 
Football Hall of Fame names 5 new members 
Associated Press 1963 charter members Joe Carr and 
Bert Bell. 

CANTON, Ohio -National Foot­Rozelle, a native of South Gate, ball League Commissioner Pete Calif., negotiated the first league­Rozelle, quarterbacks Joe Namath wide television contract in 1962, and Roger Staubach, running back handled the 1963 gambling scandal, OJ Simpson and old-timer Frank directed an interleague war with the Gatski have been named to the Pro old American Football League that Football Hall of Fame, Pete Elliott, led to the current merged alignment the shrine's executive director, an­and developed the Super Bowl. nounced Tuesday. Namath, 41, the first New York 
Jets' player to be selected, is best 
The five will be inducted into the remembered for his bold victory Hall of Fame Aug. 3, prior to the prediction and performance when NFL's first 1985 exhibition game be­the Jets beat the Baltimore Colts 16­tween the Houston Oilers and New 7 in Super Bowl III in 1969. The Uni­York Giants. Their selections in­versity of Alabama product, signed crease the shrine's membership to to a S400,000 contract with the Jets 
128. in 1965, became the first quarter­
The enshrinees were chosen from back to throw for 4,000 yards in one an original list of 1 5 finalists which season in 1967. had been cut to seven last week. 
season; while Weeks, .26-13 last year, 
is second best on the team with a 9-7 
record. 
Returning to further strengthen 
the team after sitting out last year 
with a knee injury is sophomore 
Christina Sardegna. She has opened 
the season with a 6-4 record. 
"When you go down below Molly Sullivan, these girls are all bunched together," says DeCicco. "In a sense they're all great fencers and against most equally competent fencers they're going to do well. But when they fence against girls like Molly Sullivan -contesting for medals at major tournaments -they're just not experienced enough." 
In the season thus far, success for the Irish has come at the expense of east coast teams. Early in January, the Irish won their first three out­ings in downing Harvard, 6-3; MIT, 5-4; and MIT-B, 9-0. The Irish stubled at Penn, losing 2-14, but came back strong against Cornell and Princeton, winning both by scores of 12-4. Against Temple, in a tight match, the Irish were stymied 7-9. 
Tough to overcome for the Irish in 1985 will be the loss of Albertson from last year's 13-5 team. As a fresh­man, Albertson compiled a 37-2 record and finished tenth in the NCAA Championship tournament. 
According to DeCicco, Albertson was unable to return for her sopho­more year due to financial problems and is currently modeling in France. 
"By Pia not being able to return, it put us another year on hold before we could get someone to help us with real good experience and credentials," says DeCicco. 
Despite the loss of the Swedish native, DeCicco believes the young Irish team will prove to be a tough team down the stretch. For the Irish, big tests are to be realized soon, as they travel to Ohio State this weekend to face perennial power­house Ohio State and other top mid­western opponents. 

Falling to make it were running back 
CARNIVAL SALE 
Paul Hornung and quarterback Fran 
Sweaters and accessories 25%-40% off
Tarkenton from the final seven. 
earrings, bracelets & resortwear 25% off 
Simpson and Staubach were 
Mon.-Sat. 10-6 step into the Richness ofthe Andes at: 
l-lllCrnte•

elected in their first year of Friday I0-9 
Orchid Lane 
Mishawaka

eligibility, five seasons after their Sunday 12-5 
Wednesday, January 23, 1985 -page 10 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 8 

Bookstore Basketball Commissioner Jeff Blumh is accepting applications for the position of Assistant Commissioner. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's freshman or sophomore may pick up an application in the Student Government Office on the second floor ofLaFortune. All applications must be returned to the office by Friday. -The Observer 
The ND Martial Arts Institute will be meeting Friday at 6:30 p.m. in room 219 ofthe Rockne Memorial Building. A workout will follow for the advanced students. -The Observer 
Sttetchercise and Aerobics Classes are 
being held by NVA. The classes begin this week. For more informa­tion, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -Tbe Observer Ascuba-diving courseis being sponsored by NVA. A meeting for anyone interested will be held tomorrow at 6 p.m. in Rockne room 219.-Tbe Observer 
Interhall volleyball tournaments are 
being organized by NVA. The entry deadline for both the men's and women's tournaments is today. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -Tbe Observer Doubles racquetball tournaments are being organized by NVA. There also will be a doubles handhall tournament. The entry deadline for all of the tournaments is today. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -Tbe Observer 
An Indoor track meetis being organized by NVA. The entry deadline is today. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -Tbe Observer 

retirements in 1979. Old-timers 
must have left the sport prior to 
1960. 

Rozelle, 58, has served as NFL commissioner for the past 2 5 years after his tenure as general manager of the Los Angeles Rams. He is the third NFL commissioner to be named to the Hall of Fame, joining 
Dayton 
continuedfrom page 12 

Oklahoma In the NCAA tournament. 
One advantage for the Irish Is Dayton's loss of 6-7 forward Ed Young, who tore up his knee before the season started. Young saw 35 minutes ofplaying time In last year's game with the Irish while account­Ing for 13 of Dayton's points. Donoher wao; counting on Young to produce heavily for his squad this 
year. 

Although the Flyers will be with­out Young, they still are playing well. They figure to come into the ACC fired up and determined to beat 
the Irish. 

"We can't take Dayton lightly," says Phelps, "and we need our guys to come through in key situations this time, which is something we didn't do against DePaul." 
The 8-4 Irish already have had their mishaps against Creighton and Rice, and a loss to the Flyers only wlll make the road to an NCAA tournament bid more difficult. 
"This game means a lot because this Is one ofthe teams we play twice in the season," says Phelps, "and we are competing directly against them for an NCAA tournament bid." 
Help Wanted Stanley Kaplan Center 10 hours/week Call Beth at 272-4135 
NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S THEATRE presents 

of the University of Michigan 

Two One-Act Comedies directed by Eric Fredricksen 8r. Phillip Kerr 
CHARLIE THE CHlCKEN 
by N.E. Simpson A RESOUNDING TINKLE by Jonathan Levy 
All Seall -$2.00atthe door 
Walhlnglon Han 

(boll olllce opena at6:00 pm)
Ft'lday, January 26 

01 call 239-6134101 ..-vatiOna 
Saturday, January at. 

Nlflf 6.-0D pm on daYI ol pertorrr101 tee 
8:00pm 
call 2.l9-«M8 

CHICAGO TRIB DORM DELIVERY 

$22.00 7 days/ week all semester 
(Saint Mary's included) 
call Jim at 283-2299 
---------~ 

~c:tcJICl~------------------------------W-oo--ne_~_a.y,_Jwu~--2-3•,-19_8_5~-P-~-e--11 
Doonesbury 
I'M Pf?&5/{)fNTCUK£, ANP I'P UK£ TO IAJCJ..a»fE IU 8C 'fWi?. PRESS UAISON 7HC MEM/JtRS Of7Ht IVRIN6 70NIW551JR6EK'f. PR£55 70 THE 848'1[}(X; .IU8C 5CNIJING INPOO(}{)!C caJ.E6t a=PH'ISIC/AN5. 8UIJ.ET7N5 /11RECT Ffi!OM 7HE 
" 
TankMcNamara 




UNTIL. 7H/3N, PLEASC ENJOYOUR HAITIAN H05PI7ALITY, 7E(}U/LA, .4NPNUTS. LJ6HT; SU66t5TIVE 
8ANTE:R. Will. 8£; 5a<VEJJUP 8Y YOUR LMlYANJJIAJ/WN6 
\ 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 36 -up(ln· 62 Metallic vein 24 Thread 1 Poppycock spected) 25 Portugal city 5 Afr.lake 37 After thermo DOWN 9 Tell tales orrheo 1Nee 26 Ina tizzy 
13 Earthen pot 36 Before 2 Butterlne 27 Napped 39 Put off 3 Lath 26 By any chance 14 In what 40 Slight degree 4 Concealed 29 Relating to position 41 Spread heat 5 Mountebank wheels 15 Collect taxes 43 Closed tightly 30 Escapeby 
16 Bring up 44 NewDeal 6 Excitement deceit 17 Be stimulated letters 7 Principal 31 Passe 18 Lulu 45 Stray 33 Raft or jacket 
19 Maintain 46 Simultaneously 8 Loathed 
secrecy 54 Fr. lllustra· 9 Furnace part 36 Reserve 22 Dispossess tor 10 Mesh fabric 37 Base 23 Petition 55 Silly 39 Hazard 24 Search out 56 Sheet of Ice 11 Allege 
27 Checked 57 Finished 12 US explorer 40 Brand
58 Eatery 14 Forcefully 
42 Belong as a 

32 VIne-covered 59 Addict takeaway right33 Lotharlo 60 Michigan for 20 Regretted 43 Quiet In 34 Eggs one 21 Old·tlme actor demeanor 35 Intrepid 61 Otherwise Mischa 45 Actress Taylor 
H05TCSS, HONEY. 
Garry Trudeau 
c'lr10N, HONEY; 
UE GOTT.4KEEP 
7H&5£ MEJJ/A 80Y5HAPPY. 
/ 
Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 
Campus 
•4 
· 5:30p.m. · Seminar/Demonsttadon, "How to Search User Friendly Data Basis in the Sciences, Social Sciences and Business," Satellite Room, O'Shaughnessy Hall, Call 239·6258 to Register. 

•4:20 
p.m. · Presentation, "Career Opportunities for Government and History Majors," Paul Reynolds, Career & Placement Services, 107 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Career & Place· ment Services, Free. 

•4:30 
p.m. · Microbiology Seminar, "Computers in life Science Education," Theodore Crovello, NO, Room 278 Galvin. 

•6:30 
p.m. · Informational Meeting, Tianjin, China, 422 Administration Building, Sponsored by Foreign Studies Program. 

•7 
p.m. · Basketball, NO Men vs. Dayton, ACC Arena. 

•7 
p.m. · General Meeting, International Stu· dents, ISO Lounge, Basement of LaFortuae, All Are Welcome. 

•7:30 
p.m.· Hockey, NO Men vs. Dayton, ACC Arena. 

•7:30 
p.m. Organizational Meeting, Ombudsman, Room 2-D, LaFortune. 

•10:15 
p.m.· 12:15 a.m. ·Sophomore Skating Party, ACC Skating Rink, Sponsored by Sopho· more Advisory Council, $1 to Rent Skates. 


TV Tonight 




46 Pedestal 49 Indigo occupant 50 "-Inhumanity 47 Exploding to•.•" star 51 Aswell 46 Arduous 52 Two·-sloth journey 53 -goes! · 
Tue~ay's Solution 


7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 11:30p.m. 
16 Basketball · Dayton vs. Notre Dame 
22 Three's Company 
28 Jeopardy 
22 WKRP in Cincinnati 
28 Wheel ofFortune 
22 Charles in Charge 
28 Fall Guy 
34 World Professional Ballroom Dance Championships 
22 E.R. 
16 Facts oflife 
22 Movie 
28 Dynasty 
34 Satellites: Lost and Found 
16  Sara  
16  St. Elsewhere  
28  Hotel  
34  Alfred  I.  Dupont  Columbia  
Journalism Awards  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
16  Tonight Show  

22 Magnum/Movie · Happily Ever After 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Movie · Stagedoor Canteen 

• 



L__________________________________________________________________________________________ _ 
~-----­


• 
Tim Kempton hopes to help the Notre Dame basketball team rebound from Sunday's loss to DePaul. The Irish face Dayton tonight at the ACC and will try to get back on the UJinning track.joe Brunettipreviews thegame below. 
Basketball team looks to rebound tonight as 12-3 Dayton visits ACC 
ByJOE BRUNEm 
Sports Writer 

The University of Dayton is not a DePaul, North Carolina or St. John's, but the Flyers aren't a Holy Cross either. Actually, they are some­where in between. When the Flyers enter the ACC tonight they will be determined to beat the Irish at home, something they have never accomplished. 
"Dayton will come in here very, very fired up," says Notre Dame bas­ketball coach Digger Phelps. "This is one of their bigger games of the year." 
For Coach Don Donoher's 1.2-3 Flyers, this definitely will be an im­portant contest. Visiting teams find it hard to win at the ACC, but a win over the Irish would impress the NCAA Tournament Selection Com­mittee. 
While the Irish finished second in the NIT last year, Dayton received an NCAA tournament bid and surprised everyum: by knocking off LSU, Oklahoma, and Washington before bowing to Georgetown in the West Regional. 
This season, the Flyers are riding a streak of nine straight victories, which included a win over always­tough Maryland. 
The Flyers aren't patsies, a fact they proved last year with an 80-70 victory over the Irish in Dayton. 
Donoher lost star Roosevelt Chap­man to graduation, and the loss of Chapman's 21.8 point scoring average definitely leaves a void. But the Dayton mentor returns three starters in Sedric Toney, Damon Goodwin, and Larry Schellenberg. 
Toney, a 6-2 senior guard, averaged almost 12 points a game Ia~t year, and he ripped the Irish for a team-high 23 points in last year's Flyer-Irish matchup. 
"Toney can really shoot it from the outside," says Phelps. "He hurt us in our game there last year, and we'll have to contain him ifwe want to win." 
Toney will be joined in the back­court by the 6-3 Schellenberg, who is a play maker for Donoher's squad. Schellenberg led last year's squad in assists with 142. 
Transfer Dave Colbert will start at center for Dayton, and he will be joined up front by Goodwin and forward-center Jeff Zern. 
The 6-8 Colbert was forced to sit out last year after transferring from Cleveland State. Goodwin, a junior forward, has the hot hand for the Flyers, as he led Dayton in shooting accuracy last year both from the field and the charity stripe. 
Zern received little playing time last year, but he showed that he can handle the pressure of big games when he played well against LSU and 
see DAYTON, page 10 

Third meeting of season 
Hockey team entertains Foresters 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame hockey team will play host to Lake Forest tonight at 
7:30 at the ACC in the second regularly-scheduled meeting be­tween the teams this season. 
The most important thing on the minds ofthe Irish is finding an end to the dark tunnel of defeat. Notre Dame ha~ lost eight straight games, dating back to the Foresters' last visit to the ACC on Dec. 8 when the visitors came away with a 5-4 vic­tory. 
The Irish are also hoping to avenge Lake Forest's 5-2 win last Sat­urday in the consolation game of the Forester Cla'isic at Lake Forest. 
An Irish victory back on Dec. 8 would have given Notre Dame a 6-6 record going into the Christmas break. Instead, the loss started the Irish on their current losing streak. 
Taking this into account, the 5-14 Irish are confident as they head into tonight's contest. 
"It's about time we got back on the winning track," said senior co­captain Brem Chapman. "We've lost twice to these guys now, so I think everybody should be motivated to play hard. 
"Playing without motivation has been a problem so far. It's seems that after losing like we have been that everybody would be motivated to play hard. But something has just been lacking. 
"I think ifwe get mad, it will help. I think we play better when we have something to prove." 
The Foresters were riding an eight-game winning streak going into their Cla'>sic over the weekend, but dropped a 4-3 overtime decision to Wisconsin-River Falls in the first round. 
Lake Forest, 10-4, and Notre Dame played scoreless hockey Sat­urday for a period-and-a-half before several Irish miscues allowed the Foresters to capitalize three times in the last half of the second period. 
"We've got to do a lot of improv­ing defensively," said Irish head coach Lefty Smith. "We need better forechecking and backchecking. 
And we must tighten up our overall 
play in our own zone." 
Notre Dame won three of four meetings between the teams last season, but this season's two Forester wins have evened the series · at 3-3 over the last six outings. 
The Irish will play without junior left wing Dave Waldbillig, who separated his shoulder Saturday during the first period. Senior Rob Ricci also will sit out the second game of his suspension which came as a result of a fighting incident in Friday's third period. Ricci missed Saturday's game with Lake Forest, but must miss an additional game since he was also given a game dis­qualification penalty on Dec. 1 in a game earlier this season with Alabama-Huntsville. 
In other lineup changes, freshman Mark Anquillare will take over the center spot on the third line. One of two sophomores, John Nickodemus or Rich Sobilo, will move up to replace Waldbillig on the left side of the second line. 
see HOCKEY, page 8 

Wednesday,January 23, 1985-page 12 
Basketball team reaches crossroad 
Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 


Hello again, everybody! 

"We stink" (or some derivative ofthat) wa~ the description one of my friends gave concerning Sunday's DePaul game. "We couldn't shoot, we couldn't rebound, we couldn't do anything. We stink." 
One could sympathize with my friend. After all, the loss was disap­pointing, and it offered no consolation that the room he had returned to was cold enough that you could hang meat there. His recitation ofthe statistical facts surrounding the game were precise ­yes, the Irish shot only 40 percent from the floor, missed six big free throws in the second half, and were easily outrebounded. Still. it seemed hard to agree with his blunt, if not pessimistic, opinion of Notre Dame's effort. 
Not much later, the dissenting opinion was voiced by his 
roommate. "Great game, huh! Boy, Rivers was incredible and 
everybody was fired up. We're going to make the NCAA tournament, 
no problem!" 

His unbridled optimism made me wonder whether we saw the 
same game. DePaul did win, didn't it? Did his glasses fog up with a 
rose coloring? Yes, David Rivers had a good game, and the student 
body put in .one ofits better performances in quite some time. But, 
come on ... 

It seems the proper place to put this Notre Dame team right now 
lies somewhere between pessimism and Pollyannism. The Irish are 
at the crossroad of being good or being merely average. The Irish 
defeated Indiana and played DePaul tough for 35 minutes. At times, 
they have played brilliantly, and there's little doubt this Notre Dame 
team is capable ofbeing quite good. They certainly do not "stink" or 
any derivative of that. 

In fact, the Irish have been more than respectable to this point. They have played at a .500 clip on the road -something recent Notre Dame basketball teams have been unable to do-and their only home loss has been to a Top Ten team. There is no reason to hang your head about this team's performance. 
That doesn't mean, though, that everything gold on Sunday was glittering. Notre Dame has shown some tarnished spots, as well a'> bright ones. Flashes of brilliance have been dulled by inexplicable lapses ofconfidence. Notre Dame was close Sunday-the Irish led by three with 8:21 left -but they never seemed to take control of the game. One hesitates to use the word, but at times the Irish have appeared intimidated. 
Secondly, anybody who thinks Rivers will be able to carry this team to the NCAA by himselfdoesn't have a firm grasp on teality. The Irish need to have a good team effort to beat a nationally-ranked team because no particular dimension ofNotre Dame'sgame is good enough to beat a team by itself. The Irish need Rivers to penetrate, Scott Hicks and Ken Barlow to hit from the outside, and Tim Kempton and Jim Dolan to control the inside. That didn't happen Sunday, and it hasn't happened in any of Notre Dame's losses. 
Finally, the Irish have yet to develop any kind of consistency. Notre Dame has improved its outside shooting, but if the guards aren't hitting from the floor, you could throw up a 2-3, Twilight or Tow Awayzone and have a good chance ofbeating the Irish. Barlow, Rivers and Hicks have been fairly reliable, but nobody has really played well every time out on the court. Just like anything else, one tires of"pot luck" every night. 
It would appear the Irish are definitely at a crossroad in this 1984­85 campaign. A 20-win season and the NCAA tournament is certainly a goal which is attainable, but the season also could turn out to be merely average. A critical step along either path could be taken tonight, as the Irish entertain the red-hot Dayton Flyers in the ACC. 
It is definitely a big game for the 8-4 Irish, as Dayton stands at 12-3. The Flyers have won nine in a row, including triumphs over Maryland and South Florida. A win over Dayton would certainly be impressive not only to the fans, but also to the NCAA Tournament Selection Committee. 
Meanwhile, Dayton comes to the ACC with a few things to prove, too. The Flyers have never won in South Bend, and they believe a win in the ACC would give a lot ofsupport to their claim a~ the nation's top independent. 
Thus, Phelps has once again asked the students for support in a big game, and he certainly has every reason to do so. After all, there is no doubt the Notre Dame student body can be one of the most influen­tial in the nation. This game will help decide which road the Irish take-a well-paved one to the NCAA tournament or a long and wind­ing one to the ranks of the average. 
Pick ofthe Week ... It's off to the track-the indoor track of the ACC -for action this week. Joe Plane's Irish play host to Loyola, DePaul, Bradley and Valparaiso under the North Dome Friday at 6:30 p.m. 
The Irish will be looking to rebound from a tough loss to Iowa on Saturday, and would appreciate a big crowd to urge them on. Get out ofthe cold and see some sizzling track action. We'll A-C-C you there! 






