.-------------------------------------------------------------~---­
Elections -page 3 

an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Activist Hoffman parallels college protests of '60s to '80s 
By MARK PANKOWSKI  why the university won't divest its  Nicaraguan government, had killed  
Asststanl News Edt tor  holdings in companies operating in  11,000 people and had destroyed  
South Africa," said Hoffman.  $400 million worth ofcrops.  
Student activism is making a com­ Hoffman, who received a standing  If a  well-trained guerilla group  
eback.  Abbie  Hoffman,  the  '60s  ovation at the end ofhis speech, also  were  attacking the  United States,  
political dissident, told a crowded  drew a parallel between the past few  "How  much  freedom  would  the  
Washington Hall last night.  years  and  the  period  before  (U.S.) government allow?" Hoffman  
""lltere's a second wave ofstudent  American troops entered Vietnam.  asked,  addressing  criticisms  of  
activism now," the 48-yc:ar-old radi­ There  was  a "teflon president."  Nicaragua's human rights record.  
cal said. "I've seen now an entire decade of campuses being hotbeds  'In Nicaragua we have  Despite U.S. military presence in Central America, the famous mem­ 
of rest ... but things are changing." "I thought I'd never see students  hired mercenaries •••  ber of the "Chicago Seven" said he wasn't certain if President Reagan  
active again," said lloffman, who was leading protests when many of the SOO in auendance were still in  We have printed assassination manuals,  would order Nicaragua.  an  invasion  of  
diapers. Students began protesting in the 1960s "hecOAuse they stopped seeing  just like we did in Vietnam in the  "I don't know if he's going to invade. I can't read his mind," he said. "It would be like reading  
themselves as students, but as dtizen.~ of a community" with "the  beginning.'  'Ulysses' backwards." Hoffman, a staunch critic ofEI Sal­ 
right to have a say in decisions," he  -Abbie Hoffman  yador  President  jose  Napoleon  
sOlid, adding thilttoday's students are  Duarte, said  he  has visited every  
beginning  to  view  themselves  as  Dwight D. Eisenhower,in office who  country in Central America.  
dtizens.  "nothing ever stuck to," he said.  "One ofthe advantages ofbeing a  
It's  not  just  today's  student  There was an attempt to censor  fugitive is getting to travel a lot," he  
protests that Hoffman sees as run­ rock 'n' roll, there was a communist  joked, referring to the six years he  
ning parallel to the era that made him famous. Students are responding "to apar­theid in South Africa in exactly the same way we responded to segrega­tion in the South," he said, noting that students are singing "We Are  paranoia, and there was "arrogant flag waving," he added. And the Vietnam of today, he said, is Nicaragua. "In Nicaragua we have hired mer­cenaries. We have mined the har­bors. We have printed assassination  spent underground after jumping bail on a drug-related felony. "I spent three years in Mexico and Central America." Hoffman, who has visited Nicaragua four times in the last 14  API'botoSoggy flakes Two workers at a supermarket in Pbillipi, W. Va., suroey tbe damage done by flood waters early this week. Tbe floods, wbicb killed at least 35 people in tbe mid-Atlantic states, also stranded hundreds ofpeople in Ibis and other towns.  
the World" in the same way white  manuals, just like we did in Vietnam  months, said there is no reason for  
students in the South sang "We Shall Overcome." Students once again are demand­ in the heginning," said Hoffman, who also discussed the situation in Nicaragua at the Center for Social  the United States to continue its sup­pon for the contras fighting the governm«_:nt.  Reagan redefines goals  
ing action, he said. "(Students) don't want to hear the presi<knt of the university saying  Concerns earlier in the day. He noted that the contras, the CIA-backed rebel group fighting the  "(Nicaragua) does not want to be a Russian puppet," he said. "They don't even like Russians."  for 'Star Wars' system  


Associated Press news agencies that if the U.S. research program he calls the
CLC meeting sets tone for the year 
WASHINGTON President Strategic Defense Initiative were to 
Reagan redefined his goals for the come up with an effective: system to By MARY HEILMANN each issue can receive more atten­and blatantly unnuanced in its inten­proposed "Star Wars" missile defend against nuclear attack, the Msstslatll Neu1s Editor tion and the meetings themselves tions." defense system yesterday, saying he United States would call a meeting of 
can be utilized for presentations." The administration cancelled one would deploy the space shield uni­all nuclear powers to "see ifwe: can­
The Campus Ufe Council, in its Since this wa.'i the first meeting of of Dillon Hall's SYRs and said hall laterally if other nuclear powers can not use that weapon to bring about .. first meeting of the year yesterday, the year, business consisted residents had to do a community not agree on a worldwide nuclear the elimination of nuclear announced its goals and established primarily of establishing commit­service project after some Dillon defense and disarmament program. weapons." tl\e mechanisms by which, accord-tees which will investigate residents sponsored a tailgater in "Ifwe had a defensive system and Ifthat conference failed to gain an ing to Student Body President Bill prominent campus issues and form­Ann Arbor, Mich. before Notre we could not get agreement on their agreement for mutual use of the: llealy, "students can bring their ulate proposals. Dame's football game against the part to eliminate the nuclear defensive system, Reagan said, "we business to the CLC and have it One such committee_ will address University of Michigan. weapons, we would have done our would go ahead with deployment." acted upon." Student Senate Resolution N.B. I, "I think there are legitimate issues best and we would go ahead with Earlier yesterday, when asked if 
"One of the visions I have for this the senate's response to ad­as to questions of how the Dillon deployment, even though, as I say, he meant to give the Soviets veto body is that it will be a committee ministrative policy concerning the tailgater incident was handled," said that would then open us up to the power, in effect, over deployment of body, where the bulk of the work Dillon Hall tailgater incident, Lardner, rector of Grace H lll and charge of achieving the capacity for the proposed defensive: weapons will be done outside of the criticized by CLC member Father a first strike," Reagan said In an inter­system, Reagan replied, "Hell no." 
see CLC, page 4 

meeting," Healy said. "This way, Gerald Lardner as "insulting in tone view less than two weeks before he Reagan also said in the: wide­--------------~~------------------------~ meets Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbac­ranging discussion that he suspects hev in Geneva. but cannot prove the: defection and The president's comments ap­subsequent return of Soviet mas­
Oxfam Fast approaches; sign-ups continue 
peared to negate the terms he laid terspy Vltaly Yurchenko and two ot­out in an Interview with Soviet jour­her Soviet citizens were: part of "a By DANJANICK directions, but added that she tinues until 9 p.m. Thursday when 
nalists last week in which he said he deliberate ploy" by the Kremlin In News Staff believes money is not the impor­a closing Mass wlll be said at the 
would not deploy a defensive sys­the days leading up to the Nov. 19­tant issue. Clubhouse, followed by a simple 
tem until offensive missiles had been 20 Geneva summit. Saint Mary's students will fight She said the fast is strictly an meal. 
dismantled. But Reagan denied The: president said he was hunger pangs when they par­awareness campaign "intended to Other events during the day in­
there was any Inconsistency in his perplexed by the three cases, but ticipate in the 24-hour Oxfam Fast allow us to experience the hunger clude morning, midday and 
separate descriptions ofhis policy. "we just have to live with It because: Nov. 21. ofothers." evening prayers in Stapleton 
"The terms for our own deploy­there's no way we can prove or dis­According to Mary Turgi, direc­Oxfam America is a non-profit, Lounge in lc:Mans Hall at 9:10a.m., 
ment would be the elimination of prove" that the cases were or­tor of the fast, SAGA will donate a international agency which 11 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Films on 
the offensive weapons," Reagan said chestrated. set amount of money per par­promotes self-help and develop­world hunger also will be shown 
to the Soviets. "We won't put this Contrary to recent reports from ticipant to the cause. Turgi said she ment programs in Africa, Asia and throughout the day in Stapteton 
weapon -this system -in place, this intelligence sources, Reagan said the hopes this year's number will be Latin America. This is the 12th year Lounge. 
defensive system, until we do away information Yurchenko provided more than the 1,000 participants for the nationwide fa.o;t which tries The Oxfam Fast is the culmina­
with our nuclear missiles, our of­"was not anything new or sensa­of 19H4. to feed the hungry and raise aware­tion of South African Awareness 
fensive missiles ... And if the Soviet tional. It was pretty much Informa­l.ast year, S I, SOO was donated to ness ofthe world hunger problem. Week, which takes place Nov. 14­
Union and the United States both say tion already known to the CIA." Oxfam. S1.~00 to various missions Signups for the annual fast con­21. Various events including films, 
we will eliminate our offensive As recently as last week, U.S. and S~OO to Bread for the World in tinue in the dining hall and the lecmres and discussions are 
weapons, we will put in this intelligence sources were crowing Washington D.C., Turgi said. Campus Ministry office this week. scheduled throughout the week to 
defensive thing in case some place in over what they called the gold mine Cindy Taylor of the World The fast starts at 9 p.m. Wednes­make smdents aware of the tur­
the world a madman someday tries of information from Yurchenko, !Iunger Coalition said money day Nov. 21 with a prayer vigil at moil in South Africa and how it to create these weapons again." who defected to the United States raised this yt:ar will go in similar the Saint Mary's Clubhouse. It con-· relates to hunger. But yesterday, he told White three months ago and returned to 
House correspondents of Western the: Soviet linton yesterday. 
-----------------------------------~-­
-------~-~------------------.. 
The Observer Thursday, November 7, 1985 -page 2 

Of Interest 
A noted French historian of 18th century 
science, Jacques Roger, will present the second talk in the "Rationality: Classical and Modern" series at Notre Dame tonight at 
7:30 in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The lecture is sponsored by the Program of Liberal Studies with the assistance ofa grant from the Exxon Foundation. Roger will discuss "Nature and Creation in the 18thCentury" during his Notre Dame appearance.-The Observer 
An MBA mini-forum will be held in the tower tevet of the Center for Continuing Education today from noon until 4. Representatives of more than 40 colleges and universities offering an MBA degree will attend. The event is sponsored by Career and Placement Services. -The Observer 
Dr. Eugene Diamond will speak on "The 
Medical Case Against Abortion on Demand" tonight at 7:30 in Hayes/Healy Auditorium. The lecture is being sponsored by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life Group, and is speaking as part of theJustice Awareness Week Program. -The Observer 
"Natural Highs" will be discussed tonight at 7:30 in Regina North Lounge by Dr. TerryAlley, director ofElkhart's Renais­sance Center. The lecture, part of Saint Mary's Alcohol Awareness Week, is sponsored by the College's Student Affairs office, student government and the Alcohol Education Council. In conjunction with the event, a hot air balloon will offer rides to students on campus Sunday afternoon. -The Observer 
"Breakfast Club" will be shown at IO:I5 p.m. in Chatauqua tonight. Tickets are $2 and are available from any junior class dorm rep. Price includes achance on a VCR drawing which will take place immediately after the movie. All students are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Get the scoop on your newspaper. Come to The Obser­ver's Open-House this afternoon from 4:30 to 7. Learn how The Observer makes it to your lunch table every day and meet the people behind the staff box. A free subscription and free advertising will be raffled off and refreshments will be served. -The Observer 
A Simple Minds concert trip is being sponsored by the Progressive Musik Club on Tuesday, Nov. I2 at Northwestern Uni­versity. Cost is $20 for members, $22 for non-members. Tickets will be on sale at LaFortune today from 6 to 8 p.m. -The Observer 
Second City Comedy Troupe will perform 
tonight at Washington Hall at 7 and 9 p.m. Tickets are available for $4 at the Record Store. -The Observer 
Rally against Starvation is selling the new RASTA tie-dyed T-shirts and the new RASTA button. The T-shirt is 18 and the button is $1. Both are being sold at lunch and dinner today at both Notre Dame dining halls and at Saint Mary's dining hall. Proceeds go to development projects in Africa ·The Observer 
"Between Daylight and Boonville" will 
open tonight at 8 in the Little Theater at Saint Mary's. This play focuses on the families of coal miners in southern Indiana and is produced by Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre. Tickets are $2 and may be purchased at the door. -The Observer 

Weather 
There are still 48 days until 
Christmas, but it's getting cold already. The 
high today will be In the upper 40s. Cloudy and 
cool with a 20 percent chance of morning 
showers. Partlycloudyand cool tonight. Low in 
the low 30s. Partly sunny and continued cool 
tomorrow. High in the mid 40s. -AP 
Design Editor................ Jane Anne Riefol"d Viewpoint Layout .................Carol Brown Design Assistant .................. Alice Kroeger Accent Copy Editor ...................... Ed Nolan Typesetters .•................. Becky Gunderman Accent Layout................... Marie! Labnuior 
Tom Small ND DayEdftor ...................Sharon Emmite News Editor .............................Scott Bearby SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Copy Editor.............................-.Miriam Hill Ad Design ........................ Jeanle Grammens Sports Copy Editor........... Mike Szymanski Jim Kramer Viewpoint Copy Editor...... ; Doug Hassler Photographer ............ Maureen Bachmann 
The Observer ( 1 'Sf'S ~99 .l--tO(J(J) is published Monday through frida)" except during exam and vacation paiods. TheObservrr is published b)" the student• ofthe! "niversit)· of Notrt: Uamt: and Saint Mary's Colkge Subscriptiom may be purchas.-d for HO pt"r year ( l.lO P"' !oemt:stt:r l hy writing The Observer, I' 0. Box Q. ~otre Dame. Indiana 
~()~~!>. 
The Observer is a mcmlx:r uf The Associated Press. All reproduction right' are rc:!lt"'"vrd 



Headaches could be averted with changes in registration 
I had a wonderful time with my friends at lunch yes­terday laughing over the "Revised Addition" ofthe Uni­versity's preliminary course schedule. We found it funny that the registrar's office at Notre Dame should be behind such a faux pas. 

I'm not saying the office should be expected to be infallible, but yesterday's mistake, in two-inch-high green block letters, is but one small error in a semian­nual fiasco which is staring us all in the face once again. 
I am referring, of course, to advance registration, a process designed to help students and administrators make course schedules as easily as possible. There is no question that the preregistration process eliminates a lot of problems that would be encountered if this period did not exist before each semester. But there must be a reason why aspirin sales skyrocket during this time every semester. 
The first problem students face is lack ofinformation. 
They are expected to know just what to do without 


Phil 
Wolf 
Asst. Production Manager 
portant courses before they are filled. 
The ideal time for such a registration process would be in the evening, when few students have classes. Department employees probably would not be crazy about coming in at night, but the only other alternative that would be fair to students would be to cancel classes for a day to conduct checkmarking. 
The whole notion ofcheckmarked courses is a little bit baffling. The idea ofcheckmarking, as far as I can tell, is to allow certain people to select classes before others. 
being told. The only way I Majors get first pick, then ot· found out preregistration her seniors, then juniors, was approaching was by etc. There is nothing wrong 
word of mouth. I, in turn, in­with that. 
formed many other Obviously, there often surprised students that the will be more students in­time was at hand. terested in a particutar 
Granted, the grapevine course than the professor among students is pretty possibly could handle. powerful, but the registrar Those are the checkmarked 
hardly should rely on it to courses. But few and far bet­disseminate information. ween are the upperclassmen Many students still have not who have not at some time 
received official advance been "closed out" of a non­registration materials and in­checkmarked course. structions from the 
With checkmarked registrar, and seniors began classes, one finds out during registering for checkmarked advance registration that a courses today. desired course is filled, but 
It may come as a surprise to certain administrators, but most students are concerned enough about their academic programs that they would like more than one day to plan them. 
The blame is not entirely the registrar's either. Several departments in the College of Arts and Letters give their students no advance information. The stu­dents have to smell preregistration in the air and go to their department's office to check things out. 
I know of at least one department whose students were required to apply for some checkmarked courses, one does not discover that 


he has been "closed out" ofa regular course until the beginning of the semester, when all the best classes already are full. 
What is the point ofmaking only some courses check· marked, if other courses have to turn students away after it is too late to get something else that is accep­table? 
Course registration is a complex process, but it seems that a "revised addition" of advance registration could ease a lot ofthe headaches involved. Apologies to aspirin manufacturers, ofcourse. 
and the applications were due the day before course ,----------------------....., descriptions arrived via campus mail. Timing of advance registration is not entirely as bad as that example, but it is not entirely good either. 
Thanks toyou... 
Registration for classes in English, philosophy and 
itworks...

theology will be from 8 to II a.m. on weekdays, when most conscientious students will be attending classes. 

forALLOFUS UnltadW'ay
It hardly seems fair to force students to decide bet­ween attending one class and registering for other im-L-----------------------1 
~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Only 7 shopping days left till Mark's birthday 
~~<Q> ~.q,~~~$1· 



TONIGHT 
The Student Activitie.f Board 
The Observer Thursday, November 7, 1985-page 3 
Dems, GOP claim election success 
AMoclated Prell!l 
Democrats and Republicans infor­mally inaugurated their 1986 elec­tion campaigns yesterday, posting rival claims of success on the day aftt•r off-year balloting produced a GOP runaway in New Jersey but a historic Democratic sweep of Vir­ginia. 
Statewide races aside, several of the nation's big-city mayor_s savored new terms in municipal elections, including Ed K<x-h in New York, Coleman Young in Detroit and Kathy Whitmire in Houston. Miami's six-term Mayor Maurice Ferre was the most notable ca.~ualty. He ran third behind Raul Ma.widal and Xavier Suarez, who square off in a runoff election next Tuesday. 
Democratic Party chairman Paul Kirk Jr. hailed moderate Gov.-elect Gerald Baliles in Virginia as the "profile of a winner," and said ac­companying, first-time statewide victories Tuesday by a black and a woman showed a "powerful, his­toric and positive force." 
Baliles, somewhat more modestly, said of his party's triple victory: "Obviously we have a winning for· mula in Virginia and people may be asking questions about it." 
Noting that President Reagan had campaigned for the losing GOP ticket in Virgina, Kirk said Democrats "need have no fear" of presidential popularity as they bid to win control of the Senate in 1986. 
But at the White House, spOkes­man Larry Speakes countered that Republican Gov. Thomas Kean was re-elected hy a landslide in NewJer­sey, and said the "significant thing" was GOP control of the State As· sembly for the first time since 1972. "We won two out ofthree," he said. 
Kean himself said he told Reagan in a phone call that he wanted to make New Jersey's new GOP coali­tion a model for national Republican politics. 
"I want to send a message to Was­hington that the Republican Party can do whatever it wants to do if it includes all the people in its plans," said Kean. 
The president celebrated his 1984 re-election anniversary with a speech to party officials and cam­paign workers in which he said the GOP has a "commanding lead" in polls that gauge support of 18 to 24 year-old voters. "We hold a lead, in other words, on the years ahead," he said, without mentioning the results in Virginia and NewJersey. 
Leaders ofboth parties had agreed in advance that New Jersey and Vir­ginia were the key battlegrounds as they looked ahead to the 1986 con­gressional elections, with the GOP looking for signs of a nationwide Republican realignment and Democrats hoping for a comeback after Reagan's 49-state re-election sweep in 1984. 
Kirk called a news conference to say the Republicans had spent at least $500,000 in a losing effort in Virginia. "The Virginia race was another test by the Republicans of their realignment effort and in that regard ... once again they have failed in that test," he said. 
Kirk said Democratic defeats in the New Jersey assembly were largely the result ofthe popularity of Kean, who "conducted himself, I might say, very much like a Democrat." 
But Speakes said that in Virginia, the De'mocratic success was due to the popularity of outgoing Gov. Charles Robb, whom he said often pursues policies "very much like Ronald Reagan . . . I think the Democratic party in Virginia spent most of their time trying to distance themselves from the national party." 
"I b~out the goqd china 
ibr PizzcfHuLSpecial Delivery:"''
Chairman Mao GREAT MINDS THlNKAUKE. CALL 232-2499. 

#.fflll. 
~~ 
:.t~Ui., ©1985 Pizza Hut. 

jose Caballero (front), a 24-year-old illegal alien from Mexico, relaxes with friends at his San jose, Calif, Tuesday after winning 12 million in the California State Lottery. Caballero will be able to keep his prize money but be will have to leave the country or risk deportation. 
Summer jobs may earn course credits in future 
By KATHY HUSTON 
News Staff 
Students soon may earn course credit in addition to money from summer jobs, according to student government Academic Commis­sioner Earl Baker. 
Through the summer jobs program, students could earn credit only for jobs that relate to their major, Baker said. 
According to Baker, the idea for this program came from the Urban Plunge, a program in which students receive one academic credit for spending 48 hours In an under­privileged neighborhood with a few preliminary and follow-up classes. 
After completing their summer jobs, students in this program would be required to write a paper or make a presentation to earn credit. 
All the ideas for the summer jobs program are tentative, Baker said. 
The Academic Committee still ha.~ a lot of work to do before the program is approved and imple­mented, he added. 
Baker said he expects to meet resistance when he presents his ideas to the deans of the individual colleges. 
But if the deans have no concrete objections to the program, Baker said he will make a formal presenta· lion on the program to the Academic Council and the Campus Ufe Council. 
Two friends raised under one roof. 
Bryon saw ~he 
future commg. 
Marie never lcne~ what hit h1m. 
STARTS FRIDAY NOVEMBER 8TH AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU. 
The Observer Thursday, November 7, 1985 -page 4 


Military spending tops $800 billion 
A.ssociated Press 
WASHINGTON -World military spending will reach S800 billion this year -S60 billion more than last year -continuing a post-World War II weapons buildup at the cost ofsocial programs, a report by arms control advocates said yesterday. 
The United States and the Soviet ·union, with I I percent of the world's population, account for more than half the military spend­ing, the report said. 
Among the United States and its European allies, annual per capita military spending amounts to about S45, compared with n I for health research, the report said. The world spends about $450 to educate each child and 525,600 to support each soldier. 
The findings, based on official U.S. 
CLC 
continuedfrom page 1 
one of six hall rectors on the com­mittee. "However, I think that this does nothing to resolve it. This 
doesn't do much more than alienate. You can't respond to the issues be­cause the issues aren't there." 
The resolution reads in part: "The Student Senate demands that the ad­ministration give a comprehensive description of their policies regard­ing who, what, when, where and 
how  these  'infractions'  will  be  
punished."  
Student  Body  Vice  President  

Duane Lawrence will head the com­mittee, with Lardneractingas a com­mittee member. 
Lawrence is not a member of the CLC, but noted that "any student, faculty member, or rector can be on the CLC committees." "I think we can get issues out ofthis (resolution 
.. 
them down, and address them," said Steve Kern, president ofCarroll Hall and the Hall Presidents' Council's representative on the CLC. 
In other business, the council dis­cussed the formation ofacommittee to study hall judicial procedures to "effect a positive change concerning rectors and student hall life," ac­cording to Judicial Coordinator Karen Ingwersen. 
Five students already have or­ganized for this committee, and Healy expressed hopes that a rector or faculty member would also be in­cluded. 
A committee to address the pos­sibility of a little Sibs Weekend this year was announced, with District 4 Senator Steve Taeyaerts designated chairperson. Healy stressed, however, that this committee only will investigate the problems posed by such a weekend and· formulate proposals as to how these potential difficulties could be averted. 
"We have to, of course, discuss this with the rectors and everyone else involved before we even prepare a presentation and bring it to this body," Healy stated. 
In the only vote taken, the CLC decided by a 12-5 count to prohibit The Observer from publishing the votes of individual members of the council. This action occurred after Walsh Hall rectress SisterJosefRior­dan expressed concern over the ac­curacy ofObserver reporting. 
"I think it's very important that what is put into The Observer about this body is true," Riordan said. "I think we (the CLC) run the risk of losing members due to inaccurate reporting." 
Responding to discussion on whether or not to close future meetings to Observer reporters, Dis­trict 2 Senator K.C. Culum noted, "I think ifwe vote to close the meeting, a lot of the students will perceive that what we're doing is behind closed doors." 
and international statistics, were published by World Priorities, an economic research group whose sponsors include the Rockefeller Foundation, the Arms Control As­sociation and the World Policy In­stitute. 
The aim of the report is to demonstrate, with official statistics, the disparity between spending on weaponry and that on health, welfare and education. 
For example, it said: 
•The 
Soviet Union spends more on its military than the governments of all the developing countries spend for education and health care for their 3.6 billion people. 

•The 
budget of the U.S. Air Force is larger than the total educational budget for 1.2 billion children in Africa, Latin America and Asia, in­cludingJapan. 


•Developed countries on average spend 5.4 percent of their GNP for military purposes, 0.3 percent for development assistance to poor countries. 
•Since 
I 960, Third World military spending has increased five-fold and the number of countries ruled by military governments has grown from 22 to 57. 

•The 
Soviet Union maintains more than 778,000 troops in 22 foreign countries; the United States has 479,000 troops at bases in 40 foreign countries. 


Another reason for the high cost of military forces is the astounding complexity of new weapons, the report said. In 1985 dollars, it cost 
Sl 0 million to build I 0 medium bombers in 1945; today it costs S650 million. 
The United States could buy a sub­marine for $28 million in 1945; now it costs S692 million, the study said. 
I · .., Notre Dame and St. Marys 1
·-------------------------~
I ..! Starving Student I 1 Discount Coupon 10% OFF I 
I 14k Italian Gold and Sterling Silver I I Chains, Charms, Bracelets & Rings 1 1 Students ;mtl Staff must present this Coupon or ID 11 "for lo•;.off. Offer Good Through I 
Novem~er 30, 1985. 
I I Gu~~!~ty~:~~~~ao~ r!~:~!~:as I
I I
Checks Welcome • Visa (directly in front of Browns Sporting Goods) Master~ard • Amer~can Express _ J
I Chnstmas layaways ( 2l 9) 277 3353 
·-------------------------~ 
You are invited to attend a Slide-Lecture 
.--:--'WHATIS ART?'~ 
THURSDA Y, November 7 · 7:30p.m. 'THE SEVENDEADLYSINS .___INMEDIEVAL ART'---! 
by William M. Voelkle 
Curator of Medieval and Renaissance Manuscripts The Pierpont Morgan Library, New York 
The Annenberg Auditorium, The SNITE MUSEUM of ART Open to the public. Students admitted FREE. 
Sponsored by The Friends of The Snite Museum of Art 
The council ultimately decided to leave future meetings open to everyone, but reserved the right to declare specific meetings closed or specific issues off the record. 
No mention was made at the meeting of the resolution to abolish the senate or the delegation of addi­tional duties to the CLC in the event such a resolution is successful. 
The CLt:, established in 1977 to deal with "issues that address stu­dent conct.:ri;s," is ~.:ompo~>ed of six hall rectors, two faculty members, and eight students, as well as ex­officio member John Goldrick, as­sociate vice president for residence life, and Chairman Healy. 

It's not too long until you'll be walking up to get your degree. But there's something you could get right nowfuat will help you in any walk of life. The American Expre~ Card. 
Because ifyou're a senior and you've accepted·a $10,000 career-oriented job, you could get the American Express Card. 
That's it. No strings. No gimmicks. (And even if you don't have a job right now, don't worry. This offer is still good for 12 months after you graduate.) This is a special offer from American Express be­cause, as graduating seniors, we think you're kind of special. In fact, w~believe in your future. And this is the best way we know to prove it. 
Ofcourse, the American Express Card will prove to be a great help to you in your career-for travel and for entertaining. And, to entertain your­self, you can use it to buy some new clothes for work or some new things for home. In addition, the Card is also a great way to help you begin to estab­lish your credit history. 
So calli-800-THE-CARD and ask to have a Spe­
cial Student Application sent to --. =~ 
you. Or look for one on campus. ~~ The American Express Card. • Don't leave school without it.SM _3_112 e.~OOb. 
LIE FROST 

----------------~­
The Observer Thursday, November 7, 1985 -page 5 

i
j 
~ 
1 
1 
Why let the responsibilities that college demands Special "College" classes are now being formed, deprive you of enjoying the college life? With emphasizing study techniques and textbook Evelyn Woqd Reading Dynamics you can handle reading. them both -all the reading you're expected to 
Attend a free Evelyn Wood Read-
Jo and know, plus still have the time to do what 
.ing Dynamics Introductory 
you want to do. 
Lesson and get started today! 
..._---Schedule of Free Lessons----­
LOCATION: CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
(directly across from Morris lnnJ on Notre Dame Avenue (on campusJ Room 230 
THURS. NOV. 7 10:00 AM, 12:00 PM, 2:00 PM & 4:00 PM 
FRI. NOV. 8 10:00 AM, 12:00 PM & 2:00 PM 
Choose the day and time most convenient for you. Reservations are not necessary. For further information, please call 1-(800) 447-READ 


--------------------~---­
Thursday, November 7, 1985-page 6




View~oint 
Students should not get caught in own little world 
About two hours after I left for college my freshmen year, my little sister moved into my room and moved me out. I went home over break to find my ·scrapbooks and posters ·packed away (not even neatly) in the corner of our basement. Now when I go home for breaks, I am assigned to whatever room may be empty at the time. I joke about having no place to call my own, about being homeless. 
Jane Harless justice and human rights 
But homeless...really homeless...the idea is fathomless. I see the homeless on "Hill Street Blues" and am told about them in various classes. But the world that Dan Rather and the newspapers report on is a world that is foreign to me. It is a world in which the problems seem insurmountable. I have a tendency to watch the news, complain ofthe situation, and then turn offthe T.V. I turn away from the dif­ficult issue ofthe people who have no place to call their own. Deep down I know I should do something. But right now, with applications and tests and resumes and Alumni-Senior Club... 
But the problem cannot be ignored. We are students at two institutions which proudly claim the label of <;:hristian. We have been blessed with many advantages and now we have an obligation to act on our values. We need to be aware ofthe injustice that we allow to exist in our society. 
In 1983 the National Conference ofCatholic Bishops issued a Challenge of Peace. They proclaimed that "no society can live in peace with itself or with the world without a full awareness of the worth and dignity of every human person, and the sacredness of all human life. When we accept violence in any form as commonplace, our sensitivities 
become dulled." 
We cannot allow ourselves to accept the violence of the homeless as commonplace. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offer many op­portunities for a student to take some action. The Urban Plunge, for example, is a two day immersion into city living. The plunge offers the opportunity to experience a situation 
most ofus have never encountered. After this, 
students are given the opportunity to take a 
follow up course wliich emphasizes reflec­
tion, study, and solutions toward action. A stu­
dent may also volunteer his or her time to staff 
a shelterfor the homeless here in South Bend. 
The plight of the homeless is a tragedy that 
touches us all. We, as students, have to realize 
that although the problem is immense, we 
cannot allow ourselves to wave white flags of 
surrender. We cannot allow ourselves to be 
caught up in our own microscopic world. The 
challenge is to act, and to act now within our 
own realm ofopportunity. 
jane Harless is a seniorEnglish majorand the coordinator of communications for the justiceEducation Committee atSaintMary's. 


Learning the facts can change opinion on alcohol 
The Maryland Court of Appeals recently ruled that the makers of a type of handgun known as a Saturday Night Special can be held liable for a resulting death. The National Rifle Association fumed, handgun-control adv­ocates cheered and the rest of us wondered what this says about individual responsibility. The other day, while talking about a social host's responsibility when serving alcohol, a friend remarked, "What has happened to in­dividual responsibility in this country?" 
Ken Kollman no easy solutions 
It is a valid question. With expanded liability in the form ofincreased rewards and a wider scope ofresponsibility, those servingal­cohol and those who allow the serving of al­cohol must be wary, for the courts have determined that tavern owners,. social hosts and private institutions can be sued for the dangerous actions ofan intoxicated guest. 
At once I thought, these rulings seem to be 
Eliminate double votes 

I 
r by abolishing the senate 
r 
Dear Editor: 

Once again, Notre Dame student govern­ment has shown its ineptitude. By voting three times on the issue ofdisbanding the Stu­dent Senate and finally losing the two-thirds majority needed, certain members of the Hall Presidents' Council have done a disservice to Notre Dame students. What a precedent. These multiple votes change the meaning of the saying "It ain't over until it's over" to "It ain't over until our side wins." 
One doesn't vote on something two times before suddenly realizing that he or she did not understand what was voted on earlier. This episode just underscores the fact that the political bureaucracy ofthe senate has spread to the once non-bureaucratic HPC. I, however, do applaud the 16 presidents who did not "rethink" their votes. 
The senate issue, I believe, is very clear: senate members, except the class presidents, have a position on the Campus life Council, 
Doonesbury 
MR. $HAPIRIJ, IT'$ FrV<TOF IA/HY 15 THIS 7H& NE/6H­IJOOR 57EEL-8(J<H{)(){}5 
m "Tfn2 CIJLORFUL.
,..V< lA/ . PAST, 

absurd. They place unnatural expectations on those serving alcohol to monitor each and every guest. What the courts are doing is taking away individual responsibility and replacing it with corporate responsibility. Besides, the lawyers know who has the money, and if an individual cannot pay the millions ofdollars in damages, they can go for the deep pocket by suing the nearest institu­tion. 
I should have known that rash judgements are a sign that I do not know the facts. 
I spoke with Father Michael McCafferty, as­sociate professor of law at the Notre Dame Law School about civil liability and alcohol. I will admit it opened my eyes to the fallacy of my reaction. 
He made it clear that the courts have not answered the question of a host's respon­sibility. In a 1984 ruling, Gwinell vs. Kelly, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that a host was liable for injury by a drunk driver from his party. This decision scared us. (At times, these decisions appear In the lay press as illogical, without any facts of the case. I must admit, as the case was explained to me by McCafferty, the verdict made sense.) But no court has defined to what degree a host must monitor his or her guests. I was assured that the cases are decided upon most often with reasonable verdicts. We only hear about the huge damages because they are news. 
McCafferty spoke of a hypothetical case where a doctor, father offour, is paralyzed by a drunk driver. If we include medical ex­penses, loss of future income, his children's financial future and some intangibles, a S4 mil­lion reward does not seem so astounding. 
But who pays? A $100,000 insurance premium for the driver makes a small dent, but it is often the case where the drunk driver has no insurance. Even so, assuming it can be proved that a barkeeper ·knowingly gave the driver seven drinks, then let him drive home, we can therefore say that the bar is liable be­cause it did not conduct its busines.s respon­sibly. Common sense will tell us that our hypothetical doctor has more a right to that money than either the tavern has-to make $20 off seven drinks or the driver has to drive drunk. Just as a company that makes ladders must ensure the production ofsafe ladders, so must a bar or an institution ensure that al­cohol is served responsibly and safely. 
There is little doubt that liability was a major factor in the University's alcohol policy. At times I think Notre Dame students believe our school is the only place trying to monitor alcohol consumption. The truth is, with the exparlded liability taking shape in our country, businesses, churches, even bars themselves are being careful. Our society has determined that drunk driving is a national problem. Along with tougher penalties for conviction ofdriving under the influence, the widening scope of responsibility has in· creased awareness among citizens. McCaf­ferty pointed out that Europe has tougher DUI laws and stiff liability penalties. It is a major reason for a much lower rate ofdrunk driving accidents. 
So how much responsibility does society place on persons or institutions who serve or allow for the serving of alcohol? McCafferty emphasized the reasonable responsibility placed on them. Who defines reasonable? "Do you want to test it?" he said. 
Ken Kollman is a sophomore English and government major at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


P.O. Box Q 
an organization which has to approve any ac­tions by the senate. The CLC, which includes students, rectors and administrators, is better suited to debate campus issues, has more credibility and gets "quicker" action due to the presence of these administrators. Any ac­tion by the senate will eventually be voted on by the CLC. Why have student senators vote on an issue in the senate, then have those same senators vote on the same issue in the CLC? Why have the senate if its members are al­ready in the CLC? Get rid of the ineffective, bureaucratic senate. "Eliminate Double Voting-Abolish the senate." 
Mike Smith Howard Hall 
Lining up for nothing cannot be tolerated 
DearEditor: 
A few short months ago I arrived at Notre Dame with a very idealistic approach to col­lege life. Now I realize that everything is not always how you imagine it to be, and that you just have to learn to take the good with the bad. 
A's don~t always come to you like they did in 
high school, but I'm flexible, I can handle that. 
The dining halls don't exactly serve "Mom's 
cooking," but I'm flexible, I can handle that. 
Dirty laundry can pile incredibly high, but I'm 
really flexible because I can even handle that. 
There are a lot of things you have to get used 
to doing. I can even get used to standing in 
lines. I cannot, however, handle waiting in a 
line for no reason. 
Last Thursday I arrived at the ACC armed 
with several IDs and checks. I waited in line 
with the anxious crowd. We had all heard that 
there were only 900 tickets left. A man from 
the ticket booth quieted the crowd and 
assured us that everyone would get a ticket, 
"So don't worry and don't push...."The pus­
hing and worrying continued. 
·, Finally after two and a halfhours ofwaiting, getting my feet stomped and being shoved around, I found myself sighing with relief as I realized there were only four people ahead of me in line. Suddenly the ticket booth was closed; the tickets had been sold out. The frustration I felt at that moment cannot be put into words. Needless to say, my fellow line members were also upset. As a great moan 
Garry Trudeau 

/IJHOOP5, STILL G!l&AT ?TORY 7H£ii!&! IAJUL., TO 7ELL. V/S!Tl/lk3 I'M 5Uf?& H/5 A<l£3N/J5,HUH? 
escaped from the crowd, we were told our names would go into a lottery and if our names were picked we would get tickets if any became available. 
The slim possibility of getting tickets does not console me, nor does the fact that student tickets have not sold out in five years. The fact remains, I stood in line and,/ want my tickets. 
Gina Killian Lyons Hall 
The Viewpoint 
Department 

P.O. Box Q 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Quote of the day 
LCA5t EXP/R&-'3 

"The fact is that a man who
\ 
F/£0'=""-"' 9XJN. 

wants to act virtuously in every way necessarily comes to griefamong so many who are notvirtuous!' 
Niccolo Machiavelli 
(1469-1527) 
"The Prince" 

"ie~P.~O~i~n~t~------------------------------------------Th__ __ __
u_rs_d_a_y,_N_o_v_emb_er_7_,_I_9s_s_-_P_a_ge7 


I___________P_.o__.B_o_x~Q~--------~ 
Exploitation of males 
they call "We the People?" I say it's totally market place. I hope these people will be: 
bogus and my roommates and I are in an more open-minded than Farley. We, the
Farley's viewpoint muchmust be ceased by all 
uproar. United States, have at our disposal the power 
Who does Chuck Beretz think he is anyway? to destroy the world right now. Using the Star
like that of McCarthy
Dear Editor: 
We would like to thank the "exploited When he titles his tabloid "We the People" Wars defense system as an excuse for stopping women" of Breen-Phillips so very much for does the editor-in-chief Beretz think he's Dear Editor: a first strike is the same excuse the United lancing this long festering boil ofexploitation_ George Jefferson or something? Wait a This is the first letter I have written to you States used for passing the MX plan. The 
You have elevated this all-imponant situa­minute, I mean George Washington. No, I and I am writing now because I am very hundreds ofbillions ofdoUars that are wasted tion to the magnitude usually reserved for mean ThomasJefferson. Well, it does not mat­frightened. Frightened that there are many for preventive causes, which will let at least Humphrey the whale and the diet of William ter anyway because Beretz had nothing to do more people around with the same opinion I 0 percent ofall launched warheads through; 
with the Constitution (ofthe United States). expressed in Evan Farley's column, "Do not more enough destroy the United
"the Refrigerator" Perry. than to Speaking ofdiets, we truly sympathize with Actually, I have nothing against Beretz's look to Geneva with high expectations." If States, which are in fact all theoretical. Farley, you girls (oops, women) in this USC cheer­flyer; l'm more interested in making an attack there are more people with this opinion, than please let us leave the McCarthyism back in leader ordeal. We too cannot believe the Ob­on Beretz as editor. Beretz has yet to fulfill any I will stop looking for a job, quit school and history; where mistakes should stay. Let us not server would print a picture of a beautiful of his duties as road-trip commissioner at travel the world because it Is quite apparent have a future where global destruction lurks young USC cheerleader. We know the feeling. (withheld) Hall. Possibly Beretz Is too busy that it will not be around for very much around every corner. I want my children to Once while visiting a Breen-Phillips woman's padding his resume and fiddling with his per­longer. have the opposite opinion ofyours Farley. The room during the last ice cream social, we sonal computer to serve his hallmates. Beretz In Farley's column, he outrightlyclaims that citizens ofthe Soviet Union are not "beneath" were outraged to see pictures of Biff the Solo has even refused.to properly serve his buddy, the Geneva talks are a complete farce. The the citizens of the United States and to get Flex man, a scantily-clad Jim Palmer and the Student Body President Bill Healy. Beretz is Soviet Union is only using them as a ploy to relations back to the way they were before the naked torsos of Calvin Klein men well-hung bolting to Washington D.C. next semester and "...box the United States into a corner..." Well Cold War, when the Soviet Union was our ally, on every wall. has yet to inform his pal the president. Also, how do you like that, ifa juniorat Notre Dame, we must treat the people the way God in­Perhaps we were jumping to conclusions, why doesn't Beretz mention in either The Ob­a Christian institution, can see the evils ofthis tended; as brothers and as equals. I pity people and these intellectually-stimulating young server article or his publication, the people ploy well before the government of the like Farley who cannot find it in themselves to women were interested in purchasingweight­who aided him? Doesn't the spotlight get hot United States can, should we not warn our be Christian enough to do so. If the United lifting machines and male underwear; after continually turning it towards yourself, government? Ofcourse not because everyone States goes to the bargaining table with however, we, as males, felt terribly exploited. Beretz? does not think in the same "Red Scare" at­equality in mind and not with the "Red Scare" These pictures are degrading not only to the I think Beretz, student government and Ann titude that Farley does; and lets be: thankful for attitude of the past, mistakes cannot be made. men In question, but to men in general. Petifer should all stop taking themselves so that. CarlL. Rushford It would be: highly appreciated if Breen­
seriously and should follow my lead by never The entire article reminds me of the Flanner Hall Phlllips and the entire University staff, stu­
writing or saying anything until you've had a McCarthy era. Echoes ofpeople buildingshel­
Dining hall neon sign
few shots ofJack Daniels. ters because the "reds" are out to destroy all with the respect they deserve. 
dents and administrators would treat men 
Ed Reilly other governmemnts that do not support or 
ruins ambience of quad
f. Mark Howell Morrissey Hall adopt communism can be heard throughout. 
MichaelS. MacNulty Nowcome on, ifFarleyknocks the only shot at Dear Editor: Thomas]. McHugh disarmament that the two superpowers have, "WHAT NEXT?!?" 
Administrators should 
Robert]. Stefan then where does he want us to go next. He The awful ghoul of commercialization has john R. Sullivan obviously does not want to do dte right thing. reared its ugly head on the South Quad.
answer student letters I 
Daniel E. Tanczos That is obvious by stating that the United Beyond the simplicity of posting a menu and 1 
Stanford Hall Dear Editlor: States put it to the Soviet Union first and that operating hours of the Oak Room on a con­I would like to make an open invitation to was good. So I guess we should once again say veniently situated billboard, the management the Notre Dame administration. Do your­the Communists are out to get the United of "Night Oak" sought to bludgeon the un­
New ND peace group 
selves a favor and show that you put some States just like McCarthy did. The Russians are suspecting student body by emblazoning its 
j
thought into what sometimes seem to be: ar­human beings and it makes me laugh when blue and red neon on the front of the most
will be organized today 
bitrary decisions regarding the student body. people like Farley forget that fact. distinctive building of the South Quad. These Dear Editor: What do you have to do? It is easy, just Why not do the right thing, if he thinks the aesthetics "obliviots" have trampled the sen­.., 
"We are joining together to educate our­respond to this letter by writingto P.O. Box Q. Soviets are so beneath us, show them that we slbilites of their patrons and desecrated the .,selves and others In order to grow in the This would show you at least read this sec­are the "civilized" nation. When the U.S. nocturnal ambience ofthe arched entrance. power of our common sisterhood, to lead us tion of The Observer, one of the few outlets representatives go to Geneva they should We know it is Night Oak. to an understanding ofour responsibilities in that students have regarding their suggestions have the right plan for disarmament, one that We know it is open. .., the world today, and to the action we must and complaints about student policy. does not put any on country to an advantage. Take the sign down. I take accordingly." This is important, because it seems to some Does that sound so bad? Will the United States Thanks. ., 
The purpose ofour group, "Women United of us here at Notre Dame that you have no lose face or respect? I don't think so. That does EdGavagan ~ for Peace and Justice," is to bring together concept whatsoever ofwhat the students say. not seem to enter Farley's mind. Kurt Zimmerman 1 women and men who are interested in dis­I would not like to believe this. We live in the 80s and a new class of Patricia Keally cussing and acting upon today's vital issues of If you write back, bowever, and show that graduating seniors will soon be hitting the Notre Dame students justice and peace. In celebration of our com­you do hear our voices, that might be: worse. mon humanity, we wish co affirm the belief Then it would seem you do hear us, but you that together we can make a difference for just do not care. peace and justice. The remedy to this, ofcourse, is to explain 
We will cooperate with local, national and the reasons behind your actions. When we international peace groups in order to further hear ofa new rule comingdown from on high, our cause of peace. We seek to spiritually we have no other course but to postulate nourish our peacemaking through our fellow­about the reasons behind it. When we do this, ship in the manifestly Christian community of we often make you out to be: the villain, plot­Notre Dame/Saint Mary's where this must be ting behind your desks to ruin the students. integral to the process offostering peace. We Your silence makes us suspicious, and for will strive to actively realize this goal. good reason. 
~ 
l ,
We strongly encourage anyone interested You are treating us like children with your in helping us in seeking to fulfill our obligation cold silence and haughty attitude, and if you as peacemakeers to meet with us Thursday, really have that concept of us in your minds, N<~v. 7 at 4 p.m. in the Center for Social Con-how can you do what is best for young adults cern.'i. in a college community? 
Katie Fogle 

Margy Pfeil In short, explain yourself. Ifwe knew more Colleen Cotter about what was behind the rules we live by Amy Zajakowski and the decisions you make, we might not feel 
Notre Dame students so powerless and resentful ofyou. So write to P.O. Box Qand respond to some
Beretz padding resume 
ofthe complaints and comments that students write in. The authors of these letters are
instead of doing his job 
generally not a bunch of whiners who have Dear Editor: nothing better to do; they see something that 
I was jogging at Saint Mary's when the peti­they would like changed to better things here. tion to recall Bill Healy was circulated. I was at They deserve to be answered; if not with the Rockne Memorial when they had the change they want, at least with your views of demonstration against apartheid. I was there, the problem. however, when the mail came on Nov. 4. Mike Annan Lisa Now, I am ready to protest. What Is this thing Keenan Hall 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
The __QbserYer--,~­
PO. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (279) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief..... .. Sarah E Hamilton Business Manager.... .... Oav1d Stephenllcn Managing Editor.. Amv Stf'IOhR" Comroller ................... Will1am J. H1ghducheck New~ Editor........ ..... F-...nk L1pv Advert1smg Manager . . .............. J1m Hagan
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1versity of 
News Editor....... .. ............ -~· ....~ ,_ ~•: .....yn Systems Manager. . ............. Mark B. Johnson
Notre Dame du lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the S.mt Mary's Exec:.~tNe Editor. .Theresa Guarmo Production Manager... John A. Mennelladmm1strat1on of e1ther mstitut1on. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
tanes. leHers and the InSide Column present the v1ews of thetr authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor .......................... ......... Joe Murphy 
ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. laches 
campus. through leHers, IS encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 





Accent 

Winterize the car; ice and snow are on the way 
LEICESTER CHEONG 
features writer 

A 
s you all probably guessed by now, 
winter is coming. You know it, and your 

car better know it, too. And there's no time 
like the present to winterize your car and 
learn some hints that can prevent you from 
getting into a jam during those harsh, freez­
ing months. 
Winters in South Bend bring along sub­

zero temperatures, occasional blizzards and 
snow-falling that can and will endanger the 

life ofthe unprepared traveller who gets 
stuck on a quiet road. So read on and become 
"winter-smart." 
Winterizingyour car 
Let's start with the cooling system. Water 
freezes at 32 degrees F, and South Bend 
winter temperatures go much lower than 
that. Antifreeze lowers the freezing point of 
water down to -40 degrees Fwhen mixed in 
a 50-50 ratio with water. So antifreeze is a 
must for winter. In fact, it should be used all 
year-round at the same mixture ratio as it 
also increases the boiling point ofwater and 
prevents radiator rust at the same time. 
For those ofyou who have brought your 
cars from the sunny south for the first time, 
it's a good idea to drain and completely flush 
out the entire cooling system before adding 
fresh coolant. The reason for this is that your 
car's heating system makes use ofthe heat 
contained in the coolant, which in turn 
obtains that heat from the engine. So if your 
heater hasn't been used much, loose rust and 
deposits could have built up around the 
system, hence reducing it's efficiency. 
Flush-and-fill kits are available for about S3 
at K-Mart. Note that this process should also 
be done at least every year for general 
maintenance ofthe cooling system. 
Now about the engine oil. As you probably know, your oil and filter should be changed every 4000 miles or three to four months of average driving. Oil is a strange substance. It becomes thicker in cold weather and thinner in hot. Oil that's too thin won't lubricate the engine as well, and thick oil makes it for tough and sometimes impossible starting. So you'd want the right type for the right season. 20W-50 oil is a thicker oil than the 10W-40 or 10W-30 type, and it's superb for summer as the hot temperatures will thin it out anyway but it'll still be viscous enough to lubricate. But in the winter, 20W-50 oil will become so thick in the overnight cold that you may not even crank the engine when you tum the key in the morning. The 10W-30 type is best in this case, and it won't become so thick in extreme cold that you'll have to call a cab. 


The battery is the most important unit of the ignition and electrical systems. There's only two things to do here: ensure the proper level ofthe acid-water mixture and check and ensure that this mixture has the proper concentration. Ifthe fluid level is low, add only distilled water and nothing else. A special tool costing only $2 can be used to check the concentration level. However, if the reading is below par, do no more -have a professional mechanic straighten it out. Do not try to add sulphuric acid by yourself, as the acid-water concentration is too spe­cialized a topic for the average "Sunday mechanic." Just remember: a car battery will release less power at colder temperatures, so just because your battery's fine now does not necessarily mean it'll be that way in minus 1 0 degree weather. 
Now it's time to check the other engine fluids. The transmission fluid level should be checked only with the engine hot and idling. This fluid should be a clear pinkish color. Ifit is opaque or brownish, change it. Also check the levels ofthe power-steering and brake fluids, topping up if necessary. These units generally require no maintenance, but it's a good idea to have a mechanic check the brake pads as these will really be tested in winter driving. The windshield-washing fluid tank should be kept filled as this fluid will be used more in winter to wash off salt deposits on the windshield. Some windshield fluids come pre-mixed, but for the concentrated types, a 50-50 mixture with water is needed. 
Let's now consider the tires. Everybody needs snow tires for winter. The myth that good summer radials are sufficient is simply not true. There are three types ofsnow tires: bias-ply snow tires, all-season radials and snow radials. The bias-ply tire is cheapest, but the snow radials are the most superior. The all-season fills the gap between the two. 
In any case, any ofthe three types is suffi­
cient, and it is your responsibility to have at 
least one type on each ofthe driving wheels. 
For rear-wheel-drive vehicles, these driving 
wheels are the rear ones, and vice-versa for 
front-wheel-drive cars. It is desirable, but not 
absolutely necessary, to have snow tires on 
all four corners, unless ofcourse you have a 
FWD vehicle. To help your wallet, you might 
want to consider re-treaded snow tires. 
They're cheaper than brand new ones and 
just as efficient. However, they don't last as .long. 
Things to have in your car 
A shovel and a bucket ofsand should be 
kept in the trunk, just in case. Always keep a 
windshield scraper and snow-brush handy to 
take care ofice and snow on the windshield. 
A blanket, safety flares and even a CB radio 
can save your life. It did mine twice when I 
was travelling cross-country in a freezing 
snow-storm and got stuck. Ponable hand­
held emergency transmitters are available for 
about $40. They plug into the cigarette 
lighter socket for power, and it's a good 
investment to keep one ready in the glove 
compartment, especially if you're planning 
long trips into open country. 
Things to do/not do 
Do keep the fuel tank full at all times. The 
more air that's present in the tank, the water 
vapor it contains which will condense during 
the night into water droplets, which will in 
turn mix with the: gasoline. Water in itself 
will not burn nor will it dissolve in the fuel. 
So ifenough condensation occurs, you might 
end up with a sudden dead engine in heavy 
traffic which is a very hairy situation to be in. 
Do add "dry gas" compounds every time 
you fill up your tank. These compounds are 
basically alcohols which will dissolve any 
moisture in the tank to form a combustible 
mixture that will end up burning with gasoline in the engine. These compounds also act as antifreeze preventing fuel-line freeze up. 
Do warm up the engine well before driving for at least five minutes to allow the heating systems to take effect. You'll need this heat for windshield defrosting. It's amazing how fast your windshield can fog up during winter due to the water vapor contained in your breath. Leave the heater switches off until the engine is warm, or you'll begin your day with a blast offreezing air in your face. 
Do not wash your car if below-freezing temperatures are expected, or doors and locks might jam up. This is probably com­monsense, but doors and locks simply don't freeze up. The moisture in them does. It's good practice to squin a jet ofWD-40 aerosol oil into all keyholes, hinges (door, hood and trunk), and locking mechanisms every few days to displace any moisture build-up. 
Do not use the parking brakes when the car is left parked overnight. The cables for these brakes are exposed on the underside, and any residual snow slush or moisture from the day's driving can jam them and you in the morning. Instead, for automatic transmission cars, leave the gear shift in "park," and for manual transmission models, leave the gear shift in gear, for a stationary brake effect. 
Trouble-shooting 
There's really not much you can do if you wake up to find that the snow ploughing truck has dumped a good pile on the side of your car during the night. If the snow is still fresh, you might still be able to shovel your­self out. But if it has frozen, c'est Ia vie! So anticipate the path of this machine, and stay away from it-the prevention principle. 
Ifyou're grinding your wheels but not moving an inch, here's where the bucket of sand in the trunk comes in. A generous sprinkling around the driving wheels can provide enough traction to get you out. Floor mats will sometimes do the trick too. Ifnot, try the famous "rocking" maneuver · rocking the car back and forth with careful manipula­tion ofthe accelerator, rocking a bit funher each time until (hopefully) you get free. Keep in mind that the driving wheels have to rotate slowly enough to let the tires bite for traction. So don't rev on the accelerator as you'll only grind the tires, no traction. 
You should be driving slow enough on a snow-packed road anyway, but if you happen to skid when taking a corner or negotiating a curve, do these two things immediately: don't jam, but pump on your brakes quickly to slow down, while at the same time turn the steering wheel in the direction ofthe skid to regain steering control. This can be a dangerous move especially if there's another vehicle approaching from the other side, but you really won't have any choice in this situation because you will end up in a spin if you don't. 

Lock 'em up good and tight 
The Near Side 
Mark Weimholt 
Spedal to The Observer 

Towns which have a sudden influx ofkids at the start ofa school year become prey for 
NEW YORK. Having a car on campus will criminals, says Golonka. Ifthis is the situation be great. You'll wash it on Sundays, take it for at your college town, Golonka suggests other a daily spin and have the oil checked once a safety devices. month. But have you thought about what One is a steel bar lock, which connects you'll do to safeguard it from thieves? your steering wheel and brake pedal. While 
Increasingly, students are bringing cars to the lock is in place, your car is vinually college and more ofthem are having their impossible to drive. Another is an ignition
f 
cars or parts of the car stolen. Car theft has collar which guards your ignition so thieves
r 
become such a problem that many schools cannot pull it out. When the ignition is pulled urge students to leave their cars at home out, the car can be started without a key. unless they really need them. Ifyou are at all mechanical, you can install 
"Ifyou have to have a car on campus, keep an ignition cutoffsystem for about $3.00. it mobile by buying an anti-theft device," says Experienced auto thieves are familiar with Nancy Golonka, vice president ofconsumer these switches so when they are unable to affairs-education for the Insurance Informa­start the car, they reach under the dashboard tion Institute. to flip the switch. Experts recommend you 
For example, take the classic car alarm. buy two cutoffswitches, one to install under You may be in class when the thieftries to the dashboard and one to hide in a har­take you car stereo away, but the alarm's der-to-find place. siren will come to your car's rescue or the Fuel cutoffsystems are another effective thiefwill be scared away. Standard car alarms deterrent to campus car snatchers. The range from S30 to S70 without installatiion. device cuts offthe flow ofgasoline. Although Ifyou want someone to install it, the price your car will start, it will travel only about 25 will range from S 1 00 to S200. More sensitive feet. Then it will die, leaving the crook out in devices that beep at the lightest touch cost the street or in the center ofcampus, just more. where he'd least like to be. 


 
Thursday, November 7, 1985-page 8  -9  
Take Crockett and Tubbs home with you ERIC BERGAMO Hammer provides three more Chaka Khan delivers a fast tempo features copy edtlor instrumentals for the album and for the dance track called "Own the these show his talent, "Flashback," Night." The music is given an added M iami Vice" is one of this "Chase" and "Evan." punch through Chaka Khan's sultry season's honest shows. ll's use voice. Tina Turner also scores with of music in sening the tone of the "Flashback" Is subdued in tone "Better Be Good to Me." Turner action is an important part of each and style, a break from the pulsating gives a performance that makes this week's episode. Don't you think it beat of most of the sound track. The track brim with power and emo­would be logicalw release a opposite could be said for "Chase," tion. soundtrack of" Miami Vice" music? which posesses a relentless beat. And what "Miami Vice" "Evan" moves deliberately, slowly, soundtrack should be without "In to its powerful climax. Hammer the Air Tunight" by Phil Collins. Records shows us the reason why he gained Haunting in mood and lyric, the an Emmy nomination for best score song sets a dangerous tone for our ~ \\ Miami Vice for a series with this work. protagonists Crockett and Tubbs as they make their rondezvous with~ \ ***j (out of four) Glenn Frey is the other outstand· drug dealers. ing artist on the "Miami Vice" All is not perfect on "Miami jan Hammer, the man behind the soundtrack. The song "Smuggler's Vice." A forgenable rap cut by additional musical score for "Miami" Blues" was used as the basis for an Grandmaster Mellie Mel called Vice," makes a major contribution episode of the same name. Telling "Vice" is included. "Vice" sounds w the album. There are two ver­of the trials and tribulations of a like all those other rap songs, none sions of the "Miami Vice Theme" by drug runner, the lyrics are accurate ofwhich I particularly like. Hammer on the album. The first in the lurid description of the drug­That aside, "Miami Vice" is an version Is the one heard every week world and its effect on our society. album worth your while. Ifyou are \\ I ,before the show and the second "You Belong to the City" is Frey's a "Miami Vice" fan, you will enjoy \1 i . version is an extended adaptation of second cut on the album. Starting this album all the more. Ifnot, the theme. Both versions convey out with a mournful sax solo, the "Miami Vice" still offers a collection the feel of the program, with the beat takes over with a tough sound ofgood music to listen to. This is "/')jrat·tat-tat beat and powerful guitar. reminiscient ofthe big city. one album you can't refuse.  



Rapper's delight on disc 
TIM ADAMS 
features copy editor 

H
ey all you sucker MCs Listen up, get in line I'm here to set the record straight About a really goodfriend ofmine 
Records 
Amenco 
(out of four) 


Jlis name is Blow, Kurtts that is "King ofthe Rappers," that's what be is 
He's been rapping on records Since '79 So all you sucker MCs Stand in line 
He ain't no Human Beat Box Nor a King ofRock But his girls make Roxanne look like Rupert Mudocb 
Blow is a rapper In the classical 
sense He relies not on gimmicks, but on experience 
He's got a new disc America's the name And though most ofthe songs are def One or two are lame 
This LP has some winners That'll makeyou mor1e Like "America," "Hello Baby," and "Summertime Groove" 
But when it comes to filler America's got more than Thriller For instance, I don't know why He Included, "MC Lullaby" 
Well, no rapper is perfect As I can attest But Kurtis Blow Is still one ofthe best 
So Ifyour body ain't grooving Andyourfeet ain't moving Pick up this LP And It should help thee 
Huh! 



Do-it-yourself attitude clean and polished 
I 
MARYJACOBY polished look and sound. And I Tim's contribution to this legacy autstantfeatures editor don't really like it; it was precisely is "Waitress in the Sky," a twanging their roughness and do-it-yourself song cutting down a stewardess for haven't read a review or talked to attitude which distinguished their having pretentions about her career a person who hasn't liked The first efforts. as a "flight attendant." Also, there's Rc:placc:mc:nts' new album, Tim, so I There are no songs on Tim which the borderline-boring "On the Bus," guess it's up to me to dissent. Not single themselves out like which is about pursuing romance that I don't like the album, I'm just "Unsatisfied" off last year's Let It Be on -you guessed it -the bus. lndlffc:rent to lt. And there's some­or "Color Me Impressed" from thing wrong when you're only Hootenanny. But when Paul Wes­The best track on Tim is Indifferent to an album by a great terberg's rasping voice on "Here "Bastards ofYoung," a powerful band like: The: Replacements. Comes a Regular" sings: song about alientation and having 
no ties. "Left ofthe Dial," which I used to live at home laments the hard times most
Records 

nowI stay at the bouse "underground" bands like The 
Replacements have in trying to gain you get a glimpse into the kind of radio airplay, has-ironically-hit unaffected emotion which charac­potential in the AOR markets. 

\\**: (outot f<>U<( 
terized their older songs. You might catch yourselfsinging 
Tim is The: Replacements' first Even the "dumb" songs, which along with "Little Mascara," but be release on a major label, Sire. Their The Replacements are know for, careful that no radical feminists previous records were: released on don't seem to have the same spon­hear you. Westerberg offers con­Twin Tone Records, an indepen­tanaety. In the past, they've sung solation to all those women out dent label in Minneapolis, The about mundane activities such as there who have had a husband or Replacements' home town. being a customer at the local 7-boyfriend walk out on them. In the 
I don't know if the move to Sire eleven or more graphic topics like end, he sings, "all you're losing is a ha.~ anything to do with It, or maybe: the: trauma ofgetting your tonsils little mascara." That point might be the band is just maturing, as they ripped out by selfish, profit­debatable, depending on your say, but Tim has a very clean, oriented surgeons. point-of-view. 


---~----------­ 
\  
The Observer Thursday, November 7, 1985-page 10  




Sports Briefs 
The ND varsity swim teams' intrasquad meets 
have been postponed until the opening of the new natatorium. For 
more information call Coach Welsh.-The Observer 
ND Water Polo Club members who are to take part in the dedication of the new natatorium are to meet tonight at 7 
p.m. at the natatorium. For more information call Tom O'Reilly at 283-3588.-The Observer 
The ND Rugby Club will hold its council elections tonJaht at 7:30p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. All members should attend. For more information call Mark Weingartner at 272­3388. -The Observer 
A pep rally will be held tomorrow evening at 7 p.m. at Stepan Center. Irish Quarterback Coach Ron Hudson will be the featured speaker. -The Observer 
The ND men's basketball team will hold a 
scrimmage on Saturday at 4 p.m. Free to the public, the scrimmage will be held in the ACC. -The Observer 
The ND men's and women's basketball teams 
will play intrasquad charity basketball games on Sunday, Nov. 17, 
beginning at 6:30p.m. Tickets are one dollar for students and can be 
purchased at Gate 1 0 of the ACC. All proceeds will benefit the St. 
joseph County Special Olympics and the Neighborhood Study Help 
Program. -The Observer 

Stepan Center courts at'e now available for inter­hall basketball teams. Bring applications to the Student Activities Office on the first floor of LaFortune by tomorrow. -The Observer 
NVA campus all-nighter entry torms are now available at the NVA office in the ACC and at the Angela Athletic Facility. These forms must be turned in by Wednesday. For more information call239-6100.-The Observer 
The Off-Campus hockey team will hold a 
practice on Sunday at 11:15 p.m. on the ACC ice rink. All interested are welcome to attend. For more information call Tim at 288-5484.­
The Observer 
The ACC hockey rinkis now available for interhall hockey practice. Individual dormitories may reserve late evening ice time for one hour at a rate of S50 per session. For more informa­tion call Tom Carroll between the hours of 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. at 239-5227.-The Observer 
NVA basketball officials are needed for co-ree basketball, men's and women's interhall, and dub basketball. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
An NVA team turkey shoot will be held Nov. 
18-19 from 4:30-6:00p.m. at the stadium rifle range by Gate 14. Teams must be comprised oftwo men and two women, and reserva­tions must be made by Thursday, Nov. 14. To reserve a time or to get more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
Olajuwon, Sampson dominate backcourts 

HOUSTON -Houston Rocket 
Twin Towers Ralph Sampson and 
Akeem Olajuwon are an awesome 
twosome when both are playing out­
standing games. And opponents are 
discovering that containing just one 
of the Towers will not assure vic­
tory. 

The Rockets will take a 4-2 record into Thursday night's game against the unbeaten Los Angeles Clippers and they've been aided in their fast start by the individual surges of Sampson and Olajuwon. 
Olajuwon destroyed the Portland Trailblazers Tuesday night with 41 points and 18 rebounds. He had 27 first half points when other Rocket scorers were struggling. 
Last week, Sampson was in the spotlight, scoring 24 points and grabbing 13 rebounds to lead the Rockets past Seattle while Olajuwon was slowed by fouls. 
lht· I Jh.<t'r!'t•r '\olrt· lldnl<" o!lh t· lo• dtnl on tht· lhirtl floor ol l.dl ortunt· '-llltknt I t·ntn. dt • t'P'' t ld"olinl d<ln·rto"lll{ lrom 'l d m untoI f p m \londd\ rhrou~h I roOd\ I ht' IJh.<tT'l'<'r '-dtrll \lo~n 'otfitt· lot dlnl on lht· ohord lloor ol lldl{l{dr I ollt·~:•· I •·ont·r d< • •·ro' t ld"otinl' lrom 1.! \II p m unto! \ p m \Ion 
dJ\ thuuJ.th tru.l.n lh.:.u.tluu.: f11r IH."" dJ\ llJ,,afln.l... ,..,. -\ pm \llll.t,,lfin.h mu't he.: prt·pJid c:ulu.:r 1n pt·ror..on or tH 111.111 ( hJr~t· '' I0" c:nt' pc:r II\ t" t h.u.u.



Classifieds 
h:r' t'f d.&\ 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABlE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHID ZM-8117 
PRO-TYPE Over 15 y ...exp. Speci81iz­lng In IIUdent papera, law ~-dl• eertallone. r11111m•. 277-5833 
TYPING 
m.-.a 
FME PICKUP AND DeLIVERY 
1104110 WEEKLY/UP IIAIUNG 
CIIIICULAMI NO QUOTAII II.. CI!RIB.Y INTEIID"nD llU8H ALF­ADD11d81!D ENVELOPE: IUCCEU, PO 11011 470CEQ, ~. IL
..... 
EXPIRY TYPING RJMCE. CALL ...._ COKEJI, 2»-7001. 
EXPEJIIENCED TYPIST WIU. DO TYPING. 11 YEAM EXP. CALL 287· 1112. 
The IRISH LINK wil hold 11'1 next mMiing at7pm. on Nov. 7,1n the lntemation.IIIU· denta lounge. on the 2nd. 1toor of LaFortune. ALL WELCOME TO AT­TEND!!! 
Prof-anal word pr~ng and typing. Convenient location on N. Ironwood. Call 277-4220 for appointment. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: a ro,a1 nylon blue w.11e1 betwMn the ROTC building and Ha~ Healy. It ia real important that I find it 10 n you find ij PLEASE call Peul Zimmer at 277-3912. 
LOST • ONE GOLD LOOP EARRING ABOUT 6 WEEKS AGO SOMEWHERE BElWEEN PANGBORN AND REGINA. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 
284-4006. 
FOUND: OQid, kind of paialey tncelet on the FLOOR In South Dining Hal. I Nke It, but nyou want it back. ca11 Mary'Belh 288­5577. 
FOUND: Silver Bracelet Friday Night in Pangborn. Cal 269-4238 to identify. 
································································ 
LOST: My Oirflriend'e ClaM Ring aom. where on Greenfield before Navy game. lllllck Ony!l from Averett Cchge '88. PleMe call Rey at 288-6347 to aeve my Ife. 
FOUND: WOMAN'S WRIST WATCH ON DANCE FLOOR OF SENIOR BAR. CALL TOM AT 3556 TO IDENTIFY AND 
CLAIM. 
································································ 
LOIT: Gold -·•NO .._ rl... IIIMII onya wttlla diamond,,.. JLT Mil .. lnalde. "'-......... Ill 211S-2771. 
................................................................ 
UICTAILGATOR ia wherelloel my bike. Ita a blue Schwinn Traveler Ill 1()-epeed~ Lui aeen at the 'Falcon' tailgator on ar.n Field during the USC blowout. Pieeea h.elp me out II you know where it ia. Ita my only wey to campualrorn my houae. Cal Steve X 288-6176. 
LOST: ONE IIACWIUTE FLOPPY DISK IN O'SHAQ OR LAFORTUNE. IF FOUND, PLIEAI£ CALL CAIIL WHEUHAN AT 2J4-2271. 
So, a ride on the beech crui-len't what you're looking for. How about thle: Return my loll wallet, by calling Jon Liu at 2385. and 1'1 aend you and a friend to the Patowatomi Zoo, lree. retum the wallet, ...the anirnall what a deal 

Loet A pair of girl's eyeglauee burgundy oolor lram•. be_, the Grotto and Flamer. If you have them PLEASE con­tactmeat284-4128. Thanka!ll 
FOR RENT 
RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE OVEN. LOW RATES.~ COLOR CITY /COIJ.EGATE RENTALS INC..2597881 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED IM­MEDIATELY.NOTRE DAME APTS.CHEAP .CALL ALICE 287-7657. 
WANTED 
RIDE/RIDERS NEEDED TO SYRACUSE 11/15-17 CALL KEUY 4241 
DRUMMER NEEDED for SHENANIGANS, N.D.'a awing choir. call 239-5896 
RIDERS NEEDED TO MIAMI U. OF OHIO· NOV. 8th CALL AMY 284-5536 
Need ride to Pilllbufllh for Thanksgiving breek. Can leave anytime. Cal T-at 287-6703. 
DRIVER TO TAKE CADIUAC TO PALM SPGS. CA. EARLY DEC. AUTO EX­PENSES PAID. 233-5818. 
FOR SALE 
11CKETS FOR tALE: 2 LIU GA'I. CALL (111) n.oaG NIGHTIIW£l!KENDI. 

1978 Dataun210, 43,000 milee. auto. lranem .. excellent condition. $2295,-272­11383 
'71 FIAT IEDAN $650. Need to Mil ASAP1284-4021 
Ia It True You can auy Jeepa far t44 lhrauth the U.l. .,.,ern_.,a.tthe ,_today! Cell 1412-742-1142, IEIII. 7311. 
FOR SALE 4 MISS. TIX-50 YO. Line S..ta! call Meg at 2764 
TICKETS 
IIISI. QENEJW. ADIIIIIION Two •djolning GA'a ftX u1e Call 233-8803 

I NEED IIISI QAa.272-GOI 
PENN STATE 11X NEEDED CALL 11104 

Need 4 GA'a for Mi•. Call Jane at3690 
NEED IIIII. 11X-6, FEMALE STDNT OR GA-TOM 288-4753AFTER 11PM­
HELP! NEED 2 LSU GA'S WIU PAY BUCKS! CALL MIKE X2079 
HELP!JDeeperetely need 4 GA'a and 1ST tix lor Mieaieeippi and LSU. Call P•tty at 264-4333 after 11 pm 
HEY, OVEJII HEllE 2 STUDENT MISSISSIPPI TICKETS FOR SALE WHADDAYA THINK OF THAT? 234-7412 JEREMY OR JOHN 

IIISIQAa FORIALE.272-GOI 
I NEED PENN ST AND LIU GAa.272· 
aoe 
NEED 4 STUD. OR GA TIX FOR MISS. CHRIS 272·2466 
FOR tALE: 2 GA 11X FOil ..... AND LIU GAllES. CALL 233-2113 011 234­5778. 
FOR SALE: STUDENT 11CKET TO 1111­IIIIIPPI GAllE AND TO LIU GAIIEII MUST liEU.!I 2724714 DIANE 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 LSU GA'5­WIU PAY TOP $$!CALL JOHN AFTER 11PMAT4601. 
FOR SALE: 2 IIISI. Tllt CALL (411} 318-11-AFTEitl CAUF.TlltE. 
I need meny IIISI QA'a Leave a ,.....at 283-2943. 
PIMM help lend MB club of Whllr1on to Penn St. game Nov. 16. If you have (or know anyone who hu) ticketa, pleue call Bil Oeorgen at 4187 or 3751, or Kate Georgen at (215)·732-7842. Thenka! 
NEED ..... QA'I. WJaUY OR TRADE FOR 11X TO OTHEJI GAMEl. CALL 
277-7170. 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 MISS. 11X (STUDENT OR G.A.). WIU PAY $$ II CALL SHARON AT 43871! 
FIXSale: 2 Mi•. tix, cai11635--Beet Offer 
YOU WANT THEM-I'VE GOT THEM!! 2 MiSSISSIPPI GA'S available. PleaM call Frank at x2018. 
NEED TWO!!! WIN pey $$for MISS GA'S. Keith at291·1341. 
FOR SALE 2 MISS GA'S 284-5073 
NEED 4 LSU GA'S CALL LYNN 284-4023 
I'M DATING A LAWYER'S DAUGHTER COULD BE IN BIG TROUBLE IF I DON'T GET LSU TIX CALL 2488 AND HELP ME OUT BEFORE HE SUES MY PARENTS OR TEUS THE ADMIN. ABOUT MY FELONY CONVICTIONS 2488-2488· 2488-2488-2488 
Need Mi•Stud Tix-1644 
I HAVE MISS. GA'S TOM 3180 
Rotar o.Hry won't be here for the game... But you can pick him up for only $7.25 at Rock diu Lac, first Hoor LaFortune. 
NEED 2·3 STUDENT TIX FOR MISS GAME. PLEASE HELP ME! CALL KATHY AT 4598. 
FOR SALE 2 MISSISSIPPI STUDENT TIXS CALL284-5312 
PERSONALS 

-Richard Bach. The ..-;c~geAaa. F-er 
DAR HOUSE: COLD BEER AND LI­QUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.• 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
EARN $$$ FOR ALL THOSE BOOKS YOU DIDN'T READ!! PANDORA'S WIU BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M-F 11-4. OR WE CAN HELP YOU FIND A USED BOOK FOR A CLASS. WE'RE OPEN M· F 11-6. SATANDSUN 10.5. PANDORA'S IS OPPOSITE CORBY'S X 937 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
Hungry? Call YEUOW SUBMARINE AT 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours: Mondey­Thuredey 5pm-12pm; Friday 5pm-2am; Saturday 3pm-tam and Sunday 4pm­10pm. 
UNITED WAY·SAB ROCK-A-LIKE IS COMING! THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 14th 

MOD AND BJD. "YOU LOOK OOROAI" THANKS FOR COMING UP.GLAD YOU COULDSEEOUAHOMEAWAYFROM HOME. SEE U NEXT TIME BJ. WHO LOVES YOU BABE! 
NO'S FIRST NEW ORLEANS CLUB WIU. HAVE AN DIIQANIZA110NAL MEETING ON THUMOAY NOV. 7 AT B:ODPIIIN THE NEW OILEANIIIIOOII OF LAFORTUNE. ANYONE II INVITED TO ATTEND. 
IIIIPLE IIIN~N CONCEJITI The Progreeaive Mulic Club ia eponeor­ing • trip to the Simple Minda concer1 on Tu•.• Nov. 12, at North-em Univer­sity. RelefVe a • ticket on Thurs., Nov. 7. lrorn 6-Bp.m. at the Obud dealt in LafQIIune . $20 for members and $22 for non-members. 
thankyou 10 much at. ;ude 
Attention II 011-Campue atudenta: Sorry but the 011-C.mpua Winter Ball hu been postponed until further notice. 
NEED 2-4 GA'S lor Mi•. game. Call Helen X3624. 
f;·;;;,-~ ..,..;.;;..;;;;;·iici,;~";;;i"~; ..232~ 
0554 
FAIHION VICTIIIIIII A BEAUX ARTS (COSTUME) BALl 
UVEBANDI 
$4PRESALE S5ATTHEDOOR (no alcohol. pleaH) 

Did AMY GRANT apeak to your hellr1? Then THE IPifiiTUAL ltOCK OF NDTitE DAilE i1 for you~ Join ua for fel­lowahip Wedneadllya 7:00 p.m. in Keenan Chapel. Oueetiona eel Torn 3310. Mike 2338. Georve 3244. 
INIIQHTEYEI Happy Birlhdlly' Sure i1 lonely here w/o you. Are you etil my baby? Sorry about Xmu, perh.,e on my birthday ... Je t'almel RJ 
Thank you St. Jude. 
GET PSYCHED FAJILEYII 
GET PSYCHED FAIILEYII 
GET PSYCHED FAiti.EYII 

SIIC SENIOR CLAII Girta' Night In Thurs. Nov. 7th 8·11pm HCC Game Room Popcorn. T~V. Friende, FUN! 
NEED RIDE TO YOUNGS. OHIO FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK PLEASE CALL ELAINE SMC-4007. WIU PAY USUAL! 
Caroline, Kate. and Debbie' Thanks for being great roommetea! Remember: It's better in 1/le Bahama! love. FT 
"Hey. it h•ppens. I've seen it. I've been there." 
Sometimes you have to uaume lhet your buttona are going to work when you need them. 
-nevwmind. 

m.a. -Next atop. lhe aaytum. 
SOCK HOP SOCK HOP SOCK HOP Friday. Nov. 8 9-12:30 ACCConcourae $2 for United Way Pizza. aodll, popcorn Dance Your Clllee Off 

Hipe, 5th 1toor library atudying -never so much funl What wu the IIIIa of lhlll lloolc? I'm loald..f~ to wh8l you "WHIP" up tllle -unci.~. belle. D. P.S. Can I hiiVe 811 old H.C. 
-""'? 
FOUND-1 FRITTER: Loll of fun. looks extremely cute in pink, Hke1 Herahey Bars, champagne. and raisin muffins. Al­moat19... 1,2.3. 
Happy Birthday to GINA MARIE otherwiae known u Queen of the Agora, the belt Aleron has to offer. mouiMHover. the girl who Nvel for her job, invantor of Major Pow (but who il it now?), and the giri who win never..y no when it oomee to 
O.C. Have a great day! Hope you Nke your 
presenta! Hee-Heel Love ya. The Roomiea 
Hey Mary Sunshine • · Have a nice day. Mr. Grey Cloud 
FAMOUS QUOTES. by Kevin FioRito: "I mey have high atendllrdl. but I al10 have hormonea." 
IENIOfll ITIU. TlltE TO IIQN UP FOR lENlOR ltEFLECTION GIIOUPI TODAYATC.I.C 
Hey Lipid Linda. Seen your feet lately? Call me and we'N aplit a diel Coke! Your lavorite Blo lludent. Mick. 
Women. have a h.-1! Call or wrile 

CHfiiiTOPHEit JOHN JONEI 337 HOLY CltOU XJ20I 
Offer him whal you wiH-at •-• wolh hom 
•
HAPPY 21at ..IITHDAYI 

From ABC to ZZ. TOP We offer all our albuml and lapel at diS· count pricea. lncludng the latest by: AHA. RUSH. UB40, and PAUL YOUNG. Roch duLac, Firat ltoor. LaFortune 
Keenan 4-N Roommetes of the W:>el< "The Emergency Ward" GREGG "An eye lor an eye" ROSSI and RICK "Cal me the Crui-with crutches" BLIHA 
VOUS ETES TOUS INVITES A LA CREPERIE DU CERCLE FRANCAIS CE VENDREDI SOIR DE 27h JUSOU'A MINUIT A BADIN HALL IL Y AURA UNE SELECTION DE CREPES ET DE BOIS­SONS CHAUDS ET FRO/OS. ALORS, VENEZTOUS! 
THE FRENCH CLUB INVITES YOU TO DINE AT ITS CREPERIE CE FRIDAY NIGHT. 9 TO 12 IN BADIN HALL DOWNSTAIRS. CREPES AND AS­SORTED DRINKS WIU BE SERVED. COME AND EXPERIENCE FRANCE AND ITS CUISINE! I 
SMC CIRCLE K CLUB MEETING ' 
8PMMON.11/111NTHEGAMEROOM OF HAGGAR. ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND AND TO LEARN ABOUT CIRCLE K. REFRESHMENTS! 
An old fuhionec:l boy ~ an old f.. hioned girt anile b/c he remembered ... Gu-thla old fuhioned Gator fan'J warmth ehinee through. Thanks Jamie (Jim) 
Help!! 4 "Cougarettu" need lower •­-ta together for the John Cougar Mel­lencamp Concert. eel Jennifer at 284­4092 
THE COTTON CLUB 
THE COTTON CLUB 
SMCFRESHMANFORMAL 

NOV.22 
CHEEERS!! SMC Freahman Study Breek Nov. 14 at Haggar 

JH You already know me!!! 
----------~------··-~ ­
The Observer Thursday, November 7, 1985-page 11 
'til um? ErasDius Books j llhl• r 1027 E. Wayne • ~·~ ' Tues • Sun, noon . 6 · ~ I block south of Jefferson & Eddy u-d a -·ofprlat boob bo...... aold, •••n:had  

c=Ihe ObseiYer-=-= 
An independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­plications for the following position: 
• Copy Editor 
Requires editing news copy one night per week. This is a paid position. Submit ap­plications to Dan McCullough or Frank Lipo by 5 p.m. Sunday. 
For more information, call The Observer at 239·5313 
dBASEII® 
sets the data managementstandardfor 8-bitcomputers 
HERE'S HOW: 

• Powt:rful English langua~· commands mana~t: data fur over l,ooo.ooo· users. 
Come See a Demonstration Toda)'. 

d~irl Sp•d,/ldnq in wmputa <oft""'"•
IQ), fuJI ""d""'" '"d book< 
Mon. thru Fri. 10-5 1639 N. Ironwood Drive Sat. 12-5 South Bend 277-5026 
A.ahton-Totolo a trademark of A.ahton-Tote. dBaoellloo regloterod trademark of A.ahton-tate. 


The poHtlcal turbulence of Northern Ireland explodes onto stage ... 
THE 

FREErATi~ 



OF THE 
CITY-::2:=:.~
Washington Hall· Lab Theatre(N. Entrance) 8:10PM All seats aA(only 100seataoer performance) Tickets available: At the door At 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
APPhoto 
Houston Rockets rookie centerAkeem Olajuwon withforward Ralph Sampson to build twin towers 
(34) takes a shot as San Antonio Spurs forwards to lead the Rockets to a 4-2 start. Details on page 
Mike Mitchell (34) and Gene Banks (20) watch in 10. NBA pre-season action. Olajuwon bas teamed up 
*********************************** 
* * 
~ CONFUSED?? ~ 
* *
!ABOUT RELIGION AND POLITICS~ ! IN THE MIDDLE EAST ! !* TO GET THE LATEST NEXT SEMESTER--*: 
!* ENROLL FOR *! 
~ RELIGION IN ISRAEL ~ 
!* theo 405 --note time change: *! ! 9:05-9:55 MWF ~ 
t*********************************t 


~· fil~. SabJ~ -N11~'1.1.1 5.J.t.C. LJ1Jlf 1ll'E~-t:oo p.~ -~tJO 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
last year's 8-4 squad. 
"Our philosophy is very distinct," said McCann. "We want aggressive kids with discipline and desire. Last year was tough because many of the kids had trouble adapting to our style and methods. We had to spend most ofour time teaching, repeating and reteaching. This year things have been easier because our kids know what to expect and the fresh­man come from excellent back­grounds, both in technique and In competition." 
McCann's goals for this season are focused on qualifying wrestlers for the NCAA championships In March. A power packed tournament schedule will throw the Irish Into stiff competition at the the begin· ning of the year before the dual meets start. 
McCann, pleased with the progress of his team in practice, can only wait for the matches to begin before evaluating his team. The five blue-chip freshmen and senior cap­tain John Krug will be the most 
watched  wrestlers  as  the  season  
begins.  
Last  night's  wrestle-offii  

determined the starting ten grap· piers for Saturday's tourney at Mic­higan State and the Irish lineup. led by Krug at I77 lbs., will be: senior Eric Crown at 118 pounds, freshman Dave Carlin at 126 pounds, fresh· man Jerry Durso at 134 pounds, freshman Pat Boyd at 142 pounds, freshman Dean Bubolo at I 50 pounds, sophomore Ken Kasler at 
I 58 pounds, freshman Chris Geneser at 167 pounds, freshman Spero Karas at I90 pounds, and sop· homore Art McGlothen at heavyweight. 

Doerger 
continuedfrom page 16 
hut 111.: leads tl\' hardw:>rk. He's respected by all his teammates and well liked," says the Irish offensive line coach. 
A psychology major,·Doerger has earned a teaching certificate from Saint Mary's and said he would like to be a teacher someday. The Keenan Hall resident said he hopes to become a graduate a.'iSistant or a strength coach while going for a masters in counseling after gradua­tion. 
With four games remaining for the Notre Dame football team, the in· timidating Doerger may be able to begin teaching a few lessons on the field before his college football days are over. 
... ----~----­
The Observer Thursday, November 7, 1985 -page 12 

A presentation by Salomon Brothers Inc to discuss Careers in 
' 

Research Quantitative Analysis 
& 

Technology 
Salomon Brothers Inc is a major international investment banking and market making corporation. We are leaders in the use of advanced quantitative techniques to enhance allphases ofour business activity. To assist issuers and investors in meeting the challenges offundamental economic changes, volatile securities markets and new investment products, we are expanding our technology capabilities. Ifyour career interests are to be part of a dynamic organization and to use your quantitative skills in a business. that is becoming increasingly rrzore analytical, then please meet with us. 
We are looking for individuals with backgrounds in: 
-Operations Research -Computer Science -Engineering _ -Mathematics ­-Related Quantitative Disciplines 
Monday, November 11, 1985
I ­

7:00p.m. Morris Inn 
Reception to follow 
The Observer Thursday, November 7, 1985 -page 13 


,_SIMPLE MINDS-v 
in concert 
,.....~-~,...."""'"""o'~-~-With Shri•kback 
At Northwestern University Tuesday, November 12, 8 p.m. 
e Package includes· trnnrmnrtatinn tirkots, and "refreshments" 
~"~ e Prke: $20.00 PMC Members "'~ ~ 
~~ ~~-· $22.00 ~on-Members "", ~~'1J: 
o~· ~~ 
"''~~ 
~<(., 4.'· 0 ~"'
0 Sign-up on Thursday, Nov. 7 from 6-8 p.m. at LaFortune's OBUD Desk. 
Non-Paid members bring $5.00 extra and pick up a newsletter. 
On Tour From New York 
2TIMETONY AWARD WINNER 
JOHN CULLUM 
~ as · 

~fs;J!t9 
This new adaptation features extraordinary set design and sumptuous 17th century costumes. Thursday & Friday, November 14 & 15-8 p.m. EST Morris Civic Auditorium-South Bend Tickets: $23.50$19.50 $14.50$10.50 Special Student Dlscount-$5.00 Oft Listed Prices 
Box Office open Monday through Friday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. TELEPHONE (219) 284-9190 MasterCard & Visa accepted/Group Discounts 
ABroadway Theatre League Presentation 
. 
. . 
P.O. Box 866 . South Bend, IN 46624 
Toronto Blue jays' catcher Ernie Whitt and pionship Series. Cox captured the American League manager Bobby Cox look on as Dennis Lamp (53) Manager of the Year award from the Baseball exchanges places· with reliefer Gary Lar•elle during Writers Association ofAmerica, it was announced the Bluejays' drive to the American League Cham-yesterday. 
Bobby Cox 

Jays manager gets A.L. honors 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Bobby Cox, who managed the Toronto Blue Jays to their first divisional title and then left the club to become general manager of the Atlanta Braves, was named American League Manager of the Year by the Baseball Writers As­sociation of America yesterday. 
Cox received 16 first place ballots and 104 points from a 28-voter panel composed oftwo writers from each of the league's 14 franchise cities. 
Dick Howser of the Kansas City Royals, who defeated Cox's Blue Jays in the American League playoffs and then won the World Series against St. Louis, finished second with four firsts and 63 points. Gene Mauch of California was third with eight firsts and 57 points. 
The Blue Jays won 99 games un­der Cox and beat the New York Yankees by two games to win the AL eas.t title. In the playoffs against Kansas City, Toronto took a 3-1 lead only to have the Royals recover by winning the last three games to 

SCOPE US OUT 
FOR ALL YOUR EYE CARE NEEDS­
COMPLETE EXAMS contacts, glasses 
ND/SMC students, F acuity and Staff Show Your I. D. and Receive 
20 ·1. OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
Excluding Specials 

ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 
183511.11'11111NM 1341 ...._. 
277-1181 234-2400 
South ol u.s. 23 Mame·• Shopj>ng Ctnlof 

The Committee on 
Public Policy Studies 
The University of Chicago 
Master's/PH.D. Program in Public Policy Analysis and Management 
Mr. Steven Wheatley, Dean of Students, will be on campus to discuss the program and career opportunities. 
November 8, 1985 1:30-3:30 Placement Office For more information please call 239-5200 
Interested students with any major are welcome to attend these meetings. 
Study policy issues including: Urban Fiscal Stress, Health Care, Housing, International Trade, Economic Development, Taxation, Regulation, Federalism, Welfare, Energy, Arms Control, Immigration, etc. 
capture the title. 
During the World Series, Atlanta asked permission to talk with Cox, whose contract with Toronto had expired. He then signed a five-year contract to join the Braves as GM, returning to the team he had managed for four years from 1978­81. 
Cox was attending the general managers' meeting in Inverness, Fla., when yesterday's announcement was made. 
It was the second year in a row that Howser has finished second in the balloting. He lost by one point last year to Sparky Anderson of Detroit, who did not receive any votes this year. 
Mauch, who returned to manage 
the Angels last season after a two­
year retirement, had his team in the 
West Division championship race in 
the season's final week and finished 
one game behind Howser's Royals. 
Billy Martin, fired for the fourth time by the New York Yankees after the season ended, finished fourth in the balloting with 19 points followed by Oakland'sJackie Moore, who had four. Tony Larussa of Chicago and john McNamara ofBos­ton received one point each. Whitey Herzog of the St. Louis Cardinals was named National League Manager of the Year earlier this week, beating Cincinnati player·managcr Pete Rose by one point. 


Soccer 
continuedfrom page 16 
Webster, and Tom Bowsher were perfect In their attempts in the shootout, while on the other end Dave Simon made a great save on the second Alumni shootout attempt. Simon and the Crime have yet to be scored upon In regulation or ovenime play. 
Stanford kept pace with the Crime as they defeated Holy Cross, 1-0, on Tuesday night to remain the only ot­her undefeated team. Rob Zelinski chipped in a second-half goal and the tandem of Tim Baker and Sean O'Grady recorded the shutout in goal. 
The Studs will be able to put an end to all of the grumbling about their "easy" East European League, as they take a shot at the Crime tonight at 7 on Cartier Field. 
In other action tomorrow night, Holy Cross and Alumni will go at each other in another playoff game. Both teams have one loss apiece In the double-elimination playoff sys­tem. 
The Observer Thursday, November 7, 1985-page 14 
Independents Rebel sez: 
reject idea of conference 
,. 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -The four major midwestern college basketball in­dependents are no closer to forming a conference, Dayton Athletic Direc­tor Tom Frericks said yesterday. 
"This subject has been discussed and reviewed for a number ofyears and a formal statement from all ofus is that we are no funher along than we have been in previous years, but the idea continues to be ofinterest," said Frericks, speaking as a representative of the independents at "The Great Independent Basket­ball Luncheon." 
"But collectively we do not see any developments along this line in the near future," he added. 
The four major midwestern in­dependents are DePaul, Marquette, Dayton and Notre Dame. 
Frericks said the main reason the colleges had chosen to remain in­dependents was the enlargement of the National Collegiate Athletic As­sociation post-season field to 64 teams two years ago. 
"We greatly respect our indepen­dence and with the addition of the round-robin competition (involving the four schools) one year ago, we are certainly in no hurry to make any changes," Frericks said. 
All four coaches said they were happy with the way the round-robin games had gone last year. 
"The round-robin was a big positive for all the schools," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps added. "Three of the four schools got an NCAA bid and I feel that Marquette should have been there too." 
Phelps, whose team has been rated high in most of the preseason polls, is optimistic about Notre Dame's chances this year. 
"We finished strong last year in the NCAA tournament and the fact that we have a veteran team coming back, I feel that we will be a very good team," he said. 
Leading the Fighting Irish this year will be sophomore guard David Rivers, who averaged 15.8 points a · game. "When Rivers is on the floor, he brings out the best in all of our other players," Phelps said. 
Marquette coach Rick Majerus said his team will have a strong frontline. "We return a lot of depth along the baseline with Tom Copa, Walter Downing, and Kerry Trotter. I am very optimistic about the up­coming season," he said. 
DePaul coach joey Meyer called 
the play of junior forw'ard Dallas 
Comegys the key to DePaul's season. 
"Dallas knows it is time for him to 
step to center stage and play like he 
is capable ofplaying," Meyer said. 
Dayton coach Don Donoher said 
if his team is to have a successful 
season, he must find a way to replace 
guards Larry Shellenberg and Sedric 
Toney. 
Look For Sports Wednesday 
Send $2 for catalog of over 16,000 tvpics, to assist your writing eff­orts and help you beat Writers' Bleck. For info. call TOLL-FREE 1-800-621­5745. (In Illinois, call 
312-922-0300.) Authors' Re­s.:ar::h, ?.m. 6<N-N, 407 South ~:trt..:-,J:"Ti, Chicago IL 150605. 
Argentine soccer superstar Diego Armando Maradona expresses his joy by standing on his bead after scoring the winning goal for Napoli over juventus during an Italian major league soccer game in Naples, Italy last Sunday. Maradona's goal ended juventus' un­beaten streak, throwing open the title race. 

MID .. EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
•· fepto,...,. ct ~ot Du/Wa FOODS SHAWEilMA. MiJGBDERA -BABA GHENOUJ 
HOMMUS-FELAFEL ~ 
TEBBOULI SAUD SOUTH BEND • I..EBANESB STYLE 
• Pita Sil4fed SdNioDiellu GYROS 
• Del~ht{ul Ptutrie•• Turlluh Coif~« 288-5639 
Tueo -Sat 5:30PM -9:30PM COMPLETEC"ATENNG FOR 838 Portage
PARTIES cl BANQUETS 
l07.Discount for ND/SMC Students 

..CCJQowe~ fprr aQQ occogiong_'' 
Comein and Browse 
3l7lincolnway 232-3354 
SUNSHINE PROMOTION PRESENTS: 
JOHN COUGAR 
MELLENCAMP 
THE SCARECROW TOUR Saturday. Nav•mb•rt&. 8:00pm Natr• Dam• A.C:.C:. All••at• r•••rv•dS t4.50 
dckets available at the ACC Box Office, area Sears, Robertson's, Elkart Truth J.R.'s Music Shop (La Porte), St. Joseph Bank (Main Office) Record World (Goshen) and Music Maglc(Benton Harbor) 

Compare our prices! 
ironwood liquors 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 ,2191272-7144 
NOV. 6TH AND 7TH VEDS. AND THURSDAY 7:00 9:00 11 :00 HALL OI ENGINEERlNG 
$1-50 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
'~~~' 




,4t(,(,-*-Se"i~et(,(,6.
•. op .. 

THURSDAY: $1 MIXED DRINKS BAND-COLD DRINKS! 
0•• 
FRIDAY LUNCH: Lunch from 11:30 -2:00 Pizza -Subs -Beer 

--~----------------, 

T0 day_____________________
T_h_u_r_sd_a_y_._N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_7_._1_9_8_s_-_r_a_g_e_l_s 
Bloom County 
Zeto 
HElLO, PROFf:S5CR IBID? TI-llS IS l:VWN't' I>OMER. I'M REALL'r' SORRY TO 
Yt'~-1HE WIRe' SCRVICf~ f!CKEP IT 1/P. JHtN 'fll[ WIIU.. 51R[U .A'J(JI?NIIt... COVEKEP TH[ .ECONOMICS Of E&&NO& .. "()Sfl 
~Y" 5ftii[HI((? IT OVER !HEIR WHOt.€ ff!/Jftr f/1(£ AN(? .nME• 11115 THE NEW e&&NO&. ON 71ft5 Wf!K'S COV€f?. fJIIVIP HARTMAN 
WIU IJ[ INrtf(VIEWIIVG~~-j
A BOWL Of CINN/lMON ~ ' 
[C;&NO& TOMORROW · 
MORN!N&. " , f_. 
-----a· .
' ' 
~· ~·· ~­
'WELLSIR.1 I PET: I.-P+JPJL ABDUT FAUJN6 ASt.t:EP 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Festoon 5 Incline 9 Scores 
14 Tractable 15 Writer Wiesel 16 Humorist Nash 17 Bus. sch. 
course 18 Well-known 
Quaker 19 Use a loom 20 Put off 22 Southern 
signature 23 Traditional 
knowledge 24 Gl org. 28 Slip up 27 Avouch 30 Lengthwise 32 Mortify 33 Shedding 
(with "off") 37 Curtail 38 Clown 39 SSS deslg· 
nation 40 Tibiae 42 Music acronym 43 Attendant of 
Bacchus 
44 Hallowed places 45 Ayesha to 
Haggard 48 Daniel Beard's 
org. 49 Flaky stuff 50 Muscular 52 Crossed 57 Join up: var. 58 One-man stints 59 Small Jap. box 60 January In 
Juarez 61 Knievel 62 Rangy 63 Novarro of 
early films 64 Good or kind •ndlng 65 Fleuret 
DOWN 1 Phase 2 Tex. city 

Cl1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Rese"'ed 
Wednesday's Solution 
3 Prophet of old  
4 -agreement  
(pledge)  
5 White paper  
6 Coeurd'­ 
7 ElDorado  
8 H11nglng  
9 Stray  
10 Molding  
11 Alan·­ 
12 Joystick  
13 Actthe  
scoffer  
21 Minute opening  
25 Mulligatawny  
27 Vipers  
28 Old ruler  
of Perala  
29 Rani's garb  
30 Type of ego  
31 Aid an author  41 "Hanging  49 Vandltions  
33 Chin. revolu·  Gardena" alta  51 Matador's  
tlonary  42 Medicinal leaf  victim  
34 Peruvian  44 Smithy Items  53 Gad  
35 At hand  45 Utter  54 FootbaR play  
36 Hiatuses  48 Auburn tint  55 AGardnar  
38 Barrack• beds  47 Zimballat  56 Alms  

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 



"The picture's pretty bleak. gentlemen .... The world's climates are changing, the mammals are taking over, and we all have a brain about 

Campus 
•12:00 
P.M. · 4:00 P.M. · MBA Mini-Forum, 40 Schools to be presented, Lower Level, Center fur Continuing Education, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 

•7:00 
P.M. -Thursday Night FUm Series, "Stray Dog", Loft 

•7:00 
P.M. · 9:30 P.M. · Lock Up A Friend. Sponsored by United Way Campaign, $5.00 plus warrant obtained from United Dorm Representative 

•7:00 
P.M. -FUm, ""Never Cry, My Love", CCE ETS Theater, Sponsored by Notre Dame Mediterranean/Middle East Concentration in Anthropology 

•7:00 
P.M. Fellowship Meeting, Commoner Room, Flanner Hall, Sponsored by Fellowship of Christian Athletes 

•7:00 
P.M.-General Meeting, Center for So­cial Concerns, Sponsored by Anti-Apartheid Network 

•7:00 
P.M. and 9:00 P.M. -Comedy, The Second City, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S4.00 at Record Store 

•7:00, 
9:00 and 11:00 P.M ·Movie, "Stripes", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu­dent Activities Board, St.50 


the size of a walnut." 
•7:30 
P.M.· Lecture, "The Seven Deadly Sins" in Medieval Manuscripts, William Voelkle, The Pierpont Morgan Ubcacy, New York, An· nenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by The Friends of The Snite Museum of Act, General Admission -S2.00; Friends of The Snite ­S 1.00; Students· $2.00 

•7:30 
P.M. · Lecture, "Medical Case Against Abonion", Dr. Eugene Diamond, Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame/St. Mary's Right To Ufe 

•7:30 
P.M. -Exxon Lecture, "Nature and Creation in the 18th Century", Professor Jacques Roger, Director of the Centre Alexandre Koyre, Paris, Memorial Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by Exxon Lecture Series, College of Acts and Letters, and Program of Liberal Studies 

•8:00 
P.M. -Second Scene Producdon, "Between Daylight and Boonville", Little Theater, St. Mary's, Sponsored by St. Mary's Department ofTheater, S2.00 

•8:00 
P.M. · Volleyball, Notre Dame vs. Val· paraiso, ACC 

•9:00 
P.M. · Concert, Three Notre Dame Jazz Combos, Room 115, Crowley Hall of Music 

•10:
15 P.M.· V.C.R. Giveaway and "The Break· fast Club", Chataqua, Sponsore<t by TheJunior Class, S2.00 


Notre Dame Wine Baked Country Ham Turkey Pot Pie Hungarian Noodle Bake  Dinner Menus  Saint Mary's Broiled Chicken French Dip Sandwich Cheese Omelet Chinese Pepper Beef  
TV Tonight 8:00P.M. 16 BW Cosby Show 22 MagnumP.I. 28 The Fall Guy 3-6 ~4 Front 8:30P.M. 16 Family Ties 9:00P.M. 16 Cheers 22 Simon and Simon 28 "North and South"  9:30P.M. 10:00 P.M. II:OOP.M.  16 NIBhtCourt 16 HW Sette! Blues :u Knots Landilll 3-6 Maslc:rpiccc Thcattr: Place On J!anh" 16 Ncwsecnter 16 22 22 EyewitllCII News 28 WSJV Ncwswuch 28  "Lut  

~ ~ ,.., · 'XWX*'"'(*}O(IDOI!IIt'< ~->tile( ,~-.:,~~~~~~~-··· <X.;.<>.»X;·~·;~~'JCMJ<)lJIIII(':atiO~JeC;:.:.:;;:c.-:.-:· ·:•;·· .;._
:~~l~ WQe 1Jrinf1 (~arlleiln ~ 
! 1../~:Y Basement of Lafortune:Enter through door near Crowley ~ 
~ : ....... Discount for weekend flowers orderedin advance r~I ~-1'• Hours ~
L:·:.-:.. . . ._ O!,D~R NOW! CA~ 283-4242 Mon~~.J 
-
Thursday, November 7, 1985 -page 16


S~orts 
O.C. Crime, Flanner dominate, advance in interhall soccer playoffs 

By TERRY LYNCH 
Sports Writer 
The playoffaction in interhall soc­cer is heating up as the final few scamper their way to the top of the heap. The number of teams remain­ing in the double elimination playoff system is down to five: O.C. Crime, Stanford, Alumni, Flanner, and Holy Cross. 
In yesterday afternoon's action on the Stepan fields, Flanner put an end to St. Ed's championship hopes by eliminating them, 2-0. Flanner scored one goal in each half from captain Bill johnson and his brother Mike johnson, and the shutout was recorded by freshman goalkeeper Nat Voories. 
"In the last two games we've really been getting it together," said the captain johnson in reference to last night's win over St. Ed's coupled with Tuesday's 3-Q elimination of Dillon. "We really feel we have some momentum, and we'd like to keep 
it." 
Flanner, which played in the toug­her West European League, was also beset throughout the season with a lack of consistent goal-scoring. On top of that, Flanner dug an even deeper hole for themselves by losing its opening-round playoff match to Stanford. However, now that their offense seems to be on track, the Flanner players' rough style of play could be the needed ingredient to get to the finals. 
St. Ed's, in a last note on what many have considered to be a surprising season, advanced to last night's game with a 2-0 elimination of Grace. St. Ed's had their 2-0 advantage ten minutes into the first half, on goals by Guy Rymsza and Dave Warth. Bruce Chesley was the St. Ed's goalkeeper who recorded the shutout. 
O.C. Crime continues to roll their way to the championship game, but not without a big scare from Alumni, when the Crime were forced to win a shootout, 4-1. In their opening playoffgame last Sunday, everything 
Experienced offensive lineman 
Doerger adapts to position change
The Observer/Paul Kramer 
Holy CrossplayerAlberto Sandoval dribbles awayfrom a Dillon 
ByJOHN COYLE 
in lnterhall soccer action yesterday. Holy Cross went on to defeat 
Sports Writer Dtllon and advance to a playoffgame against Alumni tomorrow 
night. Both teams have one loss apeice in the double elination 
Few players possess the ability to 
tournament. move from one position to another in the course of the season, much less a game. But when injuriesoccur,

Wrestling team opens 
coaches often have no choice but to move a starting player to a position to which he is largely unac­

Saturday against MSU 
customed. It is at this time of need, 
By EDJORDANICH 
Sports Writer 
The medicine often prescribed for a young, untested team is plenty of hands-on experience. The 1985­1986 Notre Dame wrestling team will get its first doseage this weekend when its season begins Saturday at the Michigan State In­vitational. 
Young, talented, and full ofpoten­tial, second-year coach Fran McCann's Irish are looking forward to their first shot at competition after two months of grueling when the value of a versatile player, 
"We're ready, and we're anxious like Notre Dame's Tom Doerger, is to start," said McCann. "We've truly appreciated. worked· hard, learned a lot, and now The fifth senior from Cincinnati, we have to start wrestling and com­Ohio does not mind playing several peting against different styles and different positions, when the situa­
some very good wrestlers." tion demands it. However, he would McCann has brought wrestling up prefer to play at one permanent to a new level at Notre Dame, and spot. this year's prospectus is brightened "As long as I play, I really don't by the arrival of the fourth best care. I just want to help the team 
recruiting class in the country as win, but I would have liked to have rated by Amateur Wrestling News. had one position," explains Doerger. McCann hopes these highly touted Doerger has played at four dif­
newcomers will fit in with the ex­ferent positions on the offensive line perienced wrestlers returning from during his career at Notre Dame. He was redshirted his freshman 
see IRISH, page 11 was in place as the Crime scored a 2-0 decision over St. Ed's. 
Tom White and Brad Bandura knocked in goals for the Crime in the opening-round victory, as once again goalkeeper Dave Simon was unscored upon. The Crime recorded a spectacular play, as Ban­dura's goal was scored on a nifty header off the corner kick from Manny Maldonado. 
Alumni was not intimidated by the systematic play ofthe Crime, and proved it as the two teams played in their second-round matchup. The Dogs were able to stifle the Crime offense, but once again goalkeeper Dave Simon turned in a spectacular game in the net, assisted by the out­standing play of Chris Padgett on defense. 
With a scoreless tie being the only result after two halves of play and two overtime periods, the shootout began. The Crime foursome ofTom White, Tom Walker, Buddy 
see SOCCER, page 13 
came backstrong the following year, senior, jay Underwood. He has also when he saw limited time as backup seen spot duty at both strong tackle center. His sophomore year of and quick guard in the Michigan and 
eligibility, he appeared in all 11 Michigan State games. games, playing both quick guard and Offensive line coach, jim Higgins, strong guard. has high praise for the multi-talented 
Last year, Doerger, a physical Doerger. "We are not concerned 

with who's a starter and who isn't. 
We're  concerned  with  who's  a  
player  and  who  isn't.  Tom's  a  
player," says Higgins.  

"He can go at several positions. He gives us depth, which is what we're looking for." 
The experienced Doerger is one of the strongest Irish linemen, evidenced by the fact that he was named to the 1984 strength team by the National Strength and Con­ditioning Association. Weightlifting 
TomDoerger prowess is not the only contribution 
to the Irish by Doerger. Higgins player, seemed to have found a per­believes Doerger's personality is manent home at quick tackle where also a help to the Notre Dame foot­he started in eight games, despite ball team. numerous nagging injuries. "He's very intelligent and ex­
This year, the 6-5, 271-pound tremely intense. Tom's very quiet Doerger has started at quick tackle 
see DOERGER, page 11 
practices. year because of a knee injury but again, rotating playing time with 
Irish will need Beuerlein's experience at QB 
While the recent rise of sophomore quarterback Terry Andrysiak looks like a bright spot for the Irish right now, it could quickly turn into a negative situation if the coaching staff keeps getting its signals crossed. That's what hap­pened after Notre Dame beat Navy last Saturday, or at least it came offsounding that way. 
There was Head Coach Gerry Faust in the post-game in­terview room complementing Andrysiak's performance, but stating in no uncertain terms that Steve Beuerlein would be his starter for the Mississippi game. 
"Terry played a good game, but Steve's my starting quar­terback," Faust said simply. 
That would have been fine, except that a few minutes later in the lockerroom next door Andrysiak was telling reporters his impression ofthe situation, based on his ear­lier conversation with Irish quarterback coach Ron Hud­son. 
"The way Coach Hudson described it, I thought I had the job if 1 went in and did well," said the sophomore when informed of Faust's decision that Beuerlein would be the starter. "I was a little disappointed (in the decision). I thought this was a golden opportunity to win the job." 
Whether or not that is true remains to be seen, because Faust has since taken to keeping the public in the dark about his quarterback situation. The way the Irish coach is making it sound now, eitherone could be the starter Satur­day. 
But no matter who gets the start against Mississippi, there's little doubt that both Beuerlein and Andrysiak have suffered in this fiasco. 

Larry Burke 
Football Notebook 
Andrysiak has taken things well, but he is nonetheless in a frustrating situation. There is little more he could have done this season to convince the coaching staff that he should be the starter. But so far he has not won the job. 
Beuerlein, meanwhile, has struggled this season, espe­cially lately. But it would be a mistake to bench the junior signal-caller on the basis of his poor performance against Navy. This is a guy that completed a school-record 60 per­cent of his passes last season, a guy that is 1 5 pass comple­tions away from becoming Notre Dame's all-time leader in that category. 
Beuerlein went into the Navy game after having practiced only two days because of a bruised shoulder. With him out for most of the week, the offense con­centrated on Andrysiak's roll-out type offense, rather than Deuerlein's straight drop-back plays. 
The best thing for Beuerlein right now would be a vote of confidence from the coaching staff, and the assurance that he'll be given every opportunity to keep the starting job. His experience (27 starts) will be valuable to the team, especially with three Top Twenty teams coming up on the schedule. 
Andrysiak has already proven to be an effective backup, which can obviously be a valuable asset to the team, provided each quarterback has his role clearly defined. 
As long as he's healthy, Beuerlein deserves the chance to start. He should have that opportunity until he proves that he can't do the job. And that hasn't happened yet. 
• 
Notre Dame's TV ratings continue to drop, according to story in Monday's USA Today. 
Last Saturday's Notre Dame-Navy game on ABC was trounced by an 8.2-3.8 margin in the ratings by the Iowa­Ohio State telecast on CBS. That's the second time this season that an ABC Notre Dame telecast has been drubbed by a 2-1 margin by a CBS Big Ten game. The last time it was the Iowa-Michigan State telecast beating out the Air Force­Notre Dame game. 
ABC will wait until this weekend to decide whether to show the Nov. 16 Notre Dame-Penn State game nationally, or combine it with the Auburn-Georgia matchup. 
Notre Dame's drawing power figures to improve, however, with the quality teams remaining on the schedule. After Saturday's game with Mississippi, the Irish will take on the second-ranked, 8-0 Nittany Lions. The next week it's No. 1 5 LSU (5-1) at Notre Dame Stadium. followed by a trip to eighth-ranked, 7-1 Miami, for a game that will be televised nationally by CBS. 





