Scholarships -page 3 

VOL XXI, NO. 38 the inlkpcndl·nt ~ludl'lll lll'\\~papcr ~lT\ ing 11111n damt: and ~ainlman ·, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1985 

HPC sends proposal for senate disbanding to students for vote 
By KAREN WEBB HPC President Kevin Howard said News Staff the CLC is the more effective body because it is composed of rectors The Hall President's Council and members of the administration voted last night to put before the stu­as well as students. It also is dent body a referendum on the recognized by the Board ofTrustees, 
proposal to disband the Student while the senate is not, he said. 
Senate. "We found it necessary to 
The council's vote, an over­propose the abolishment of the 

whelming majority of 17 in favor, senate so that the student govern­
three against and four abstentions, ment will once again become ef­
was needed to put the referendum fective," Howard said. 
before the students. He added,"This is not a power 
Fifty percent of the voting stu­play." dents now must approve the Junior Class President Jim referendum when It is voted on, at a Domagalski said the student voice date yet to be announced. was better represented in the senate 
Student Body President Bill Healy than in the CLC. and Student Body Vice-President Duane Lawrence spoke to the coun­He also said he believes the reason cil before It voted. for the senate's ineffectiveness lies 
Healv asked the council, "How in its leadership, not in its structure. can the administration respect the "If there Is real leadership and real Student Senate when the students issues, then the senate has a don't even respect It?" purpose," he said. 
Lawrence suggested that the Lawrence said if disbandment Campus Life Council take the place should occur, it would not be the of the senate In Its function as the first time this had happened in its voice ofthe student body. "What the history. senate does, the CLC can do," he In 1972, three years after its es­said. tablishment, the Student Senate was 
Senior Class President John Sebas­abolished because it was considered tian disagreed with Healy and ineffective. It was reinstated, Lawrenl·e, stating that the senate however, In 1981. played "a key role to improve stu­Howard clarified the point that if dent life." He did agree. however, the disbandment would occur, that Its structure needed to be senate members would become chanRed. members ofthe CLC. 
Simple meal served; recalls world hunger 
By DAN MURPHY at 7:30p.m. In the Center for So­News Staff cial Concerns. Following the hour-long 
Students can participate in a documentary, taped footage of a "day of solidarity" today by nationwide teleconference eating a symbolic simple meal at televised earlier will be shown. the dining hall In awareness of The teleconference, broadcast world hunger, said World from Washington, D.C., will Hunger Coalition President feature Peter McPherson, ad­Kevin Moser. ministrator of USA Aid and the 
The simple meal, consisting of Agency for International rice, bread, soup, water and tea, is Development. part of an observance of World Also speaking will be Barbara Food Day sponsored on the Huddleston, a food and agricul­Notre Dame campus by the tural organizer from the United World Hunger Coalition. Nations. 
Moser said the three-year-old program has a dual purpose. "It This will be the second annual will help us realize there arc still teleconference, aired at more a lot of hungry people in the than 150 universities world, and remind us of the nationwide. The program will in­world's capacity to grow food." clude questions from phone cal­
The simple meal will be served lers. today on the east side of South Another hunger aid program Dining Hall and in sections A sponsored by the WHC is the through C In North Dining Hall. semester-long Wednesday lunch 
World Food Day, which was fast. At the beginning of each declared by the United Nations, semester students sign up and also will feature a Mass, movie pledge to give up lunch on Wed­and teleconference. nesdays. 
Moser noted that each year For each lunch not eaten the students complain about the dining hall allocates one dollar to lines for a regular meal and write the WHC. Once a student breaks letters to The Observer. the fast, no more money will be 
Today at 5: Io; p.m. a Mass will donated for lunches missed. be held at Sacred Heart Church This semester the fast has to celebrate World Food Day. made approximately 5850, "Five Minutes to Midnight," a which goes directly to aid documentary about the world programs reevaluated by the hunger situation, will be shown WHC each year. 

Grotto statue to honor Tom Dooley 
By TERRY DEMPSEYE 
News Staff 
Notre Dame graduate Dr. Tom Dooley, a hero who devoted his short life to aiding Southeast Asian people, was honored yesterday with a statue placed just west of the Grotto. 
The statue !ihows Dooley posed with two Laotian children. 
By the time Dooley died ofcancer in 1961 at the age of34, he had saved literally thousands of Southeast Asians. 
The Grotto was a favorite meditat­ing place for Dooley during his years at Notre Dame. 
"Just so many times, how I long for the Grotto... if I could go to the Grotto now, then I think I could sing inside," he said in the famous letter written from his deathbed to Univer­sity President Father Theodore Hes­burgh. 
Father Daniel Jenky, rector of Sacred Heart Church, said the statue was donated to Notre: Dame. and 
see DOOLEY, page 3 

Stanley Kaplan reveals testing hints 

By BOB MUSSELMAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Stanley Kaplan had three sugges­tions for the several dozen prospective graduate students who attended his presentation last night at the Library Auditorium: "Practice, practice, and more practice." 
Kaplan, 66, guest of the Notre Dame Preprofessional SoCJiety and the South Bend Kaplan Center, also spoke yesterday afternoon to the In­diana University students studying here about the National Medical Boards and their relationship to residencies. 
"You have to warm up if you're going to take a test like the MCAT or the GRE," Kaplan, founder ofStanley 
H. Kaplan Educational Centers, told the mostly premed crowd last night. 
The talk, titled "The Role ofStan­dardized Testing In the Admissions Process," pertained mainly to the nature and composition of stan­dardized admissions tests. He spent little time talking about his test preparation program. 
"I don't come here as a used car salesman," Kaplan said before the presentation. 
He explained that standardized tests are used to compare students with other students. But he added that since they are relatively im­precise, grade point average also is factored heavily into admission decisions. 
Until recently, Kaplan said, most organizations administering the tests claimed that preparation courses could not prepare students for the examinations since they measure "aptitude," or innate ability. 

But during the 1970s, after the Federal Trade Commission inves­tigated and confirmed Kaplan claims that preparation is effective, and that the knowledge rested is learnable, the test-administering companies began offering their own prepara­tion programs. Kaplan claims were vindicated. 
Kaplan stressed, however, that "I'm not saying everybody should take a preparation course. But everybody should prepare." 
On one's own, Kaplan suggested that students obtain books which outline test topics, and review texts especially written for the tests. 
"Familiarity doesn't breed con­tempt," he said. "It breeds con­fidence." 

RASTA uses music to celebrate 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST 
Copy Editor 
Attempting to celebrate the culture of hunger-ridden countries instead of the unhappiness and poverty, members of RASTA yester­day used music to attract people to an afternoon rally behind Lafortune Student Center. 

"We're trying to emphasize the culture, art and music of the African society, the beauty and sensitivity of primitive African art, rather than the ugly parts which society has dwelt on," said Cathy Ann Reynolds, co­leader of the group. 
RASTA:a group formed last year in response to a need for hunger awareness on campus, "rallies against starvation" through fund­raisers and concerts planned by a core group of 1 0 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
One ofthe group's goals this year, Reynolds said, is to encourage stu­dents to use their own special talents to help in the campaign for hunger awareness on both campuses. 
Co-leader Santiago O'Donnell agreed with Reynolds. 
"Whatever students can do for hunger helps. Whatever talents they can use to show people that hunger never stops will help to gather people and create opportunity," he said. 
O'Donnell said last year's goals focused on fund-raising for African hunger victims. This year's RASTA goals, however, extend beyond monetary aid, he said. 
"We can't simply give handouts. We have to know what's going on down there," O'Donnell said. 
"We learned a lot from last year. There is not much we can change about Africa, but there is much we can change about Notre Dame," he said, explaining the group's decision to focus on awareness problems on campus, rather than on long-term solutions to the African crisis. 

RASTA member Stacy Bonanni, a Saint Mary's senior, said the group's members are using their college education for a good purpose. 
"The trend on this campus has been that students go to school just to get a better job," she said. "We're using our education to do someth­ing concrete. We are old enough to make a difference." 
Bonanni said she feels RASTA's ef. forts demonstrate that people on campus care about the hunger crisis and are willing to take action. 
"Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents can accomplish something if they set their minds to It," she said. 
The bluegrass group "The New­Age Mothers and the American Dream" entertained the sizeable lunchtime crowd at the rally. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 16, 1985-page 2 


In Brief .~ 
Brushfires raged outofcontrolin southern 
California yesterday as air tankers bombed wildfires with chemicals and firefighters fought flames that had burned at least 20,000 acres and 14 houses. As hot and dry Santa Ana winds lowered the humidity to 10 percent, turning_ parched brushland into a firefighters' nightmare for a second day, airplanes laden with fire-snuffing chemi­cals targeted two blazes roaring near Malibu. Pepperdine University canceledclasses yesterday because the main artery through the area, Pacific Coast Highway, was closed to all but emergency traffic. -AP 
The 1985 Nobel Prize in economics was awarded to Franco Modigliani, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor, it was announced yesterday in Stockholm, Sweden. "I am obviously very pleased," the 67-year-old economist said at his home in Belmont, Mass. "It's always nice to hear that the work I've done is appreciated and regarded as important." Modigliani, who emigrated from his native Italy to the United States at the beginning of World War II, was cited for theories on how people save for their old age and for refining economic thinking on how to determine the market value ofbusinesses. Modigliani's savings theories, worked out in the 1950s with a student, the late Richard Bromberg, helped 
demonstrate how people reduced their savings when they could count on improved pensions. -AP 
Two more hijacker arrests were made yester­
day, bringing to seven the number of Palestinians who have been charged in the hijacking ofthe Achille Lauro during a Mediterranean cruise that began in the northern port of Genoa, Italy. Gennaro Calabrese de Feo, chiefprosecutor ofGenoa, would not identify the two Palestinians, reveal the charges against them, or say ifthey were in custody. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Notre Dame Pre-Law Society is spon­
soring an informal Information Day tomorrow from 11 a.m. until 3 
p.m. in Stepan Center. Representatives from more than 100 law schoolswill be presentto answer questions from students interested in applying to law school. This event is open to all area college stu­dents considering law school, and is free ofcharge. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame chapterofPax Christi will meet today at noon in the Center for Social Concerns. Members are asked . to bring a brown baglunch. -The Observer 
Snite Museum's Noontalk will feature Brooks 
Joyner, director of the Act Center in South Bend, who will speak on the "George Rickey in South Bend" exhibition. The talk will be held from 12:10 to 12:55 this afternoon in the O'Shaughnessy Gallery West. -The Observer 
The O'Hare bus trip deadline has been ex­
tended to Thursday by the Student Activities Board. The cost will be $10 and buses will leave from the Main Circle on Friday, Oct. 18at 6 
p.m. and Saturday, Oct. 19 at 6 p.m. Sign-ups are at the SAD Record Store in LaFortune Student Center. -Tbe Observer 

Weather 

1 
Things are cool today with a high in the low 60s. Clear and cool tonight with a low in the upper 30s. Mostly sunny tomorrow. 
High in the mid 60s. -AP 

The Observer-
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home footbaU Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observeris published by the studentsof the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( S20 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

The Observer is a member of The .\-.elated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor........................And! Schnuch Design Assistant.................. Kathy Huston LayoutStaff..................... Melinda Murphy Typesetters ...................................... Pat Clark jennifer Lynn Bigott News Editor .............................jane Kravcik Copy Editor......................Ciny !Uuckhorst Sports Copy Editor................Martin Burns Viewpoint Copy Editor .......Alice Groner Viewpoint Layout............ Melissa Warnke Features Copy Editor...... Genie Wimmer Features Layout......................... Carey Gels ND Day Editor ........................ Diane Dutart SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle AdDesign .......................Jeanie Grammens jim Kramer Photographer .......................... Paul Kramer 


Construction on campus creates dusty clouds in alumni's memories 
Walking across the campus this weekend before the Army game, as the unsuspecting alumni you walk out the Memorial Library's west doors. Memories of your carefree undergraduate days on the scenic Notre Dame campus fill your senses with the anticipation ofmomen­tarily reliving your all-too-short time in the land of the Fighting Irish. 
Then, as you walk down the quad in your green plaid slacks, green jacket and Notre Dame baseball cap, you are confronted with a large brown hole-nearly 50 yards by 25 yards. 
You are shaken up a bit but continue walking. Didn't they replace the fieldhouse with a beautiful grass and cement mall, you think. Pondering this, you walk past the hole, the center ofwhich is strewn with wood and pipe, toward the student center. 
You stop and slowly make sense of what you are seeing. Then you scream. "Ahhhh! Who tore the back off LaFortune Student 
Center?" Your wife sits you down on a bench with a plaque on it. I heard those Dillon guys were mad about their SYR, but this is out of line, you think. 
You compose yourself as you realize what a 
nightmare  this  pre-game  
stroll  has  become.  Sl}aky,  
but  back  in  control,  you  

catch your breath, get up and stroll toward your other alma mater, the Notre Dame Law School. 
You enter the South Quad 
with a feeling of renewal. The trees ace at the peak of their autumn colors and some undergrads frolic on the newly-cut lawns. Then you see the Law School · twisted carnage of steel and concrete. It looks like something George Rickey made on a bad day. You lose consciousness. 
Your wife is gently shaking you awake as she drives north on U.S. 31 and then turns into the Saint Mary's gate. Perhaps a visit with your daughter will save your sanity. You have troyble lighting a cigarette because your hands are shaking. And I wanted to relax this weekend, you tell yourself. 
Your wife pulls into the parking lot. She has to run around to open your door because you can't hold onto the handle. You step out. You look at the Saint Mary's Science Hall. One side of the building is covered with scaffolding and another pact ofthe wall is knocked out. You fall dead ofa heart attack. What a crummy day. 
Sometimes it seems as though change comes slowly in the Notre Dame community. Sometimes it comes too quickly. 

Dan 

McCullough 
News Editor 
Construction is in full swing on both campuses this fall. The foundation of the war memorial fountain now is being poured. Walking past the Law School, one can begin to perceive the shape of the addition. 
Finishing touches are being put on the Rolfes Natatorium (that means swimming pool) behind the Athletic and Convocation Center after more than a year. Also at the ACC, refinishing of the double white domes now is complete. 
The Grotto has been refurbished after a fire two 
weeks ago. It even has a new 
statue of Tom Dooley to 


watch over it. 
LaFortune is in various states ofdisarray. What used to be the pool room now sits outside, alone and cold. Large pieces of machinery grind and drill and crash in the mornings and after· noons. And construction workers sit and suck on cigarettes and drink coffee, watching the female coeds walk past during their break. 
Construction means growth and improvement. 
Temporary inconveniences 
such as having to walk 
around fences and walk over deep, muddy tire tracks are only pauses which will soon be replaced with stately new buildings and expensive new monuments. 
When alumni invade the campus this weekend, they will look around and notice that the campus is not what they remembered it to be. This dorm wasn't there before. The post office used to be here. What was once this is now that. 
But if they have a keen appreciation for these things, they will be able to see that the physical growth of the campus is only an outward sign of a larger kind of growing. Every new building signifies an expansion of attitude. Every new sidewalk a pathway to a more clear vision ofwhere we are going. Every brick is a new idea. 
When Father Sorin looked on the burnt-out remains of the old administration building, he wasn't dis­couraged, but excited. That disaster ofalmost 100 years ago was the seed for a new University committed to all kinds ofgrowth. 
And this growth is continuing at an unprecedented rate this fall. So you see, friends, change ain't so bad. 


ST. JUDE 
0 Holy St. Jude apostle ond martyr great In virtue and rich In miracles near kingdom of Jesus Christ, faithful intercessor of all who Invoke your special patronage In time of need, to you I have recoursefrom the death of my heart and humbly beg to whom .God has given such power, to come to my assistance. Help me In my present and urgent petition. In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to be Invoked. Say three Our Fathers, three Hall Marys and Glorias. For nine catl8ecutfve days. Publications must be promised. St. Jude pray far us and all who Invoke your ald. Amen. This Novena has never been known 
to fall 
THANK YOU ST• .JUDE 

The Student Activites Board presents: 

Wednesdoy ond Thursdoy Octobj:!r 16th ond 17th 7:00,10:00 p.m. 
Holl of Engineering $1.50 


1...1. Club Bus 
NotreDame to Hempstead 
Leaves N.D.: Friday Oct.18 7pm 1
L Leaves L.l.: Sunday Oct.27 7am _Sien up ~~~ eallinlPeteor Paul
I

~-------------at%448------------/ 

Round Trip _____$76.00 



The Observer Wednesday, October 16, 1985-page 3 

Students nominated to receive scholarships 
Simon asks for student creativity 
ByJOHN GORLA 
StaffReporter 
Students were urged to unleash their creativity in solving the problems of the poor last night by William Simon, former secretary of the U.S. Treasury. 
Simon, who served as secretary during the Nixon and Ford ad· ministrations, lectured as part ofthe John A. O'Brien Lecture Series on Religion and Politics. 
Simon presented his idea of the need for a creative economic policy. "The issue is not whether we should have domestic welfare programs, but what kind ofprograms." 
He urged students "to abandon this spurious notion of economic rights and begin focusing our atten· lion on what will really solve the problem: the creation and expan· sion ofwealth, which happens when the creativity ofhuman beings is un· leashed." 
In response to the recent publica­tion of the Bishop's Pastoral Letter on the Economy, Simon said, "The idea of 'economic rights,' I have to tell you is a serious mistake, both for the sake of human rights and for the sake ofthe poor." 
Instead of creating freedom, a theory of economic rights creates citizens who become wards of the state, Simon said. 
He told students to look at what happens in countries where economic rights are proclaimed, and cited the Soviet Union as an ex­ample of an economic system gone sour. 
Simon said the problems facing socialism and communism are "that they leave you with too few human beings, too fettered to exercise their God-given creativity and initiative." 
On the issue of questions to ask government officials, Simon asked, "Do our welfare programs en· courage people to exercise in· itiative, creativity, and enterprise? Or do they create perpetual wards of the state? Do our welfare programs empower the state in ways that diminish the liberty ofits citizens, or do they empower citizens to fulfill their God-given abilities?" 
While stating that the U.S. capitalist system Is far from perfect, Simon said, "Our nation has achieved the greatest prosperity and freedom known to man." He urged students to make sure that liberty and freedom are upheld in the tradition ofour forefathers. 
The greatest responsibility for our nation's future and the help of the poor lies with the students ofthis na­tion · we must have sense ofrespon· sibility for ourselves and for others, Simon said. 
"Uberty and creativity -that's what political economy is about," he said, adding,"Be faithful to your true 
revolutionary  heritage.  And  by  
doing  so,  you can  change  the  
world."  


By MARY BERGER 
News Staff 
Seven seniots have been en­dorsed by the University in their quest for Rhodes and Marshall scholarships. 
The seven are: Gregory Abowd, John Berestka, Gregory Dingens, Theresa Doering, Ed· ward Kelleher, Carl Krill III, and Scan Reardon. 
The Rhodes scholarship was established when Cecil Rhodes, a successful South African colonist, sought to bring people from the British commonwealth to Ox­ford, his alma mater. 
To accomplish this, two-year fellowships which enable scholars to pursue a second un· dergraduate degree or a graduate degree at Oxford University were created. 
Uke the Rhodes, the Marshall scholarship provides for two years ofstudy, but it is applicable to any British .university. In the application ~or the Marshall, the student must state which univer­sity he or she w:>uld like to attend and why. 
"Notre Dame aims to put for· ward those students we feel have a reasonable shot at winning and possess the qualities the Rhodes/Marshall people are looking for,'' said Nathan Hatch, director of the Institute of Scholarship in the liberal arts 
"We want people, who as the Marshall application states, 'have keen intellect and a broad out­look,' he continued. 
Strong extracurriculars, character, and compassion for the world are some of the stressed qualities Greg Dingens, an arts and letters pre­professional student majoring in history, said he believes are im· 
portant. During the first week of 
school, Hatch sent letters to the top I 0 percent ofthe senior class informing them of the scholar· ship. A follow-up, open meeting was held at which all of the in· terested students were given in· formation packets which included applications. 
Out of the 40 interested stu­dents, 29 completed their ap­plications. Last year, the University had half that many ap­plicants. 
A team of four faculty mem· bers read the applications and chose 14 students to interview, Hatch said. From these 14, the seven students advancing to the state level from Notre Dame were chosen. 
Three of these students are competing for both the Rhodes and Marshall scholarships, three are competing only for the Rhodes and one Is competing only for the Marshall. 
The Notre Dame candidates now are completing their ap· plications. Once they are com· plete, the students wiU await a call In early December inviting them to be interviewed for each of the scholarships at the state level. 
The state committees choose approximately 12 students to be interviewed. From these 12, they endorse two candidates who continue to the district level. There are eight regions of six or seven states which conduct fur· ther interviews to eventually select four Rhodes scholars from each region. 
The nominees for the Marshall scholarship proceed directly from University endorsements to the district level. 
At this level, the nominees are again interviewed and a maxi· mum of 30 scholarships are awarded to all the districts throughout the country. 


Alumni -asked to return for series 




TOYOUR 
Ready to unlock your potential? Then here are your keys. We're looking for delivery drivers Call us: with the ambition to advance through 277-2151 our system step· 
1835 South Bend Ave. by-step. Plaza 23 Center 
South Bend Call or stop in your local Domino's Pizza store today for more employment information. Who knows? The keys to your future just might be waiting for you at Domino's Pizza. 
II. 
©1985 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
By KATIE CRONIN 
News Staff 

You apply to Notre Dame, you're accepted, you come, yoUI study, work, learn, and grow. Finally you graduate. You've become an alumni, and until now football weekends were your only excuse to return to Notre Dame, right? 
Not quite. 

lbls year distinguished Notre Dame alumni will be returning to campus to speak: to present Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students in the new Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series. 
The purpose of the series "is to give students a chance to hear from alumni who have met with much success in their respective fields, and to give alumni a chance to share their knowledge and experience with students," said Ed Leonard, a member ofthe Student Alumni Rela· tions Group. 
To select speakers, deans of the' University's dUferent colleges were 
CareerExposure Program 
This Christmas Break: several Notre Dame Alumni Clubs will sponsor a Career Break Exposure Program for one week ofthe vacation 
The Career Exposure Program Is Intended for juniors and seniors who have had the necessary prerequisite courses to spend c1 week working and understanding In their prospective career choice. The number and type of voluntejer employment spots open Is dependent upon the availability and willingness of local firms. Therefore, all career options may not be available for the week of volunteer exposure. Finally, It Is Important to realize that these are professional firms participating In a professional enterprise. Each resume Is presented to them and It Is Important that tlrne and effort be put Into presenting the applicant, and the University, In the best manner possible. 
The following clubs have volunteer spots In the designated areas: 
Albany, NY:  All fields will be considered.  
Aurora/Fox Valley, IL:  Mechanical Engineering, Law, Physics  
Florida West Coast:  Psychology, Social Work, Education  
Pittsburgh:  Accounting, Banking/Finance, Law,  
Sports Writer, Social Work  
La Crosse, WI:  Agriculture, Law, Business, Government,  
Communications, Engineering, Architecture  
Los Angeles:  Communications, Engineering, Medicine  
Law, Real Estate, Banking, Architecture  
Rochester, NY:  All fields will be considered.  
Orange County, CA:  All fields will be considered.  
Tampa Bay:  All fields will be considered.  

Ifyou are Interested In the Career Break Exposure Program, please pick up an application and return It completed to the Notre Dame Alumni Association office at 201 Administration Building. 
Applications are due October 18, 19851n the Alumni Assoc. office 
asked to nominate alumni in the fields of business, entertainment, government, spons, and education. 
The series was proposed last spring by a joint committee ofSARG and student government, and then was approved at an alumni board meeting. SARG and student govern· ment are joint sponsors. 
The first lecture will be given by 

U.S. Congressman Roman Mazzoli (R·Ky.)onFridayat3:30p.m.in 122 Hayes-Healy. 
Dooley 
continuedfrom page 1 
placing it in the Grotto "S<eemed a good idea." 
)enky said the statue has been ex· pected for a long time, but where it would be placed on the campus was not known until the beginning ofthe semester. 
Placing the statue in the Grotto is fitting, )enky said, because of how Dooley cherished the place and af. firmed this in his letter to Hesburgh. 
The establishment of the memorial to Dooley coincides with the 25th anniversary of his death in one ofhis own clinics established for war refugees. 
The year before his death, Dooley shared a commencement platform with President Eiacnhower, who said ofDooley,"There are few, ifany, men who equalled his exhibition of courage, self-sacrifice, faith in his God and his readiness to serve his fellow man." 


Clarification 
Because of a reporting error, the selection process for the stu­dent regent to Saint Mary's Board of Regents was stated incorrectly in yesterday's Observer. Fifteen students applied by writing let­ters to Dean of Students Sister Karol Jackowski, explaining their qualifications. 
Canyouaffordto gamble with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,orMCATI 
Probably not. Great grades alone may I)Ot be enough to impress the grad school of your choice. 
Scores play a part. And that'$ how Stanley H. Kaplan can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches test-taking techniques, reviews course subjects, and increases the odds that you'll do the best you cando. 
So if you've been out of school for a while and need a refresher, or even if yotire fresh out ofcollege, do what over 1 million students have done. Take Kaplan. Why take l

a chance with your ·career? 

KAPLAN-. 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl aNTER lTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219)' 272·4135 


r 
r 
~ 
r 
Wednesday, October 16, 1985-page 4
The Observer 

,-----------------,
Hey ME, 
t DO~ BETTER IN SCHOOL t
Try to avoid any midterm debacles. 
-YOU l;~~:,~:, ~~, STUDY TIPSl 
Another Inexpensive Observer greeting 
t . 

LISTENING ABILITY I $45 00 TWO ' 
• EXAM SCORES On 1/ EVENING ' 
.... WORKSHOP

t • STUDY HABITS OCTOBER 28 E. 30 OR 29 31 ~ 
' • TIME MMlAGEMENT e 4 
' 

' • STRESS CONTROL 7:00 P,M, TO 9:30P.M. ' 
, • sELF coNF I oENcE YMCA -Niles t
SlaeU. Prende,.,aat 
(late, ofcourse) 

'Co.U (616) 424-5169 '"" "'"":""""·
-Lou 

L----------------~ 
IfElizabethBarrett andRobert Browninghad AT&T'S 60%ancl40%discounts, it would have been a terrible 




loss forEnglish literature. ·.#~ 
And of course, she wouldn't have had to on your state-to-state calls. restrict her feelings to a mere sonnets Call between 5pm and llpm, Sunday length, either. through Friday, and you11 save 40% on your 
Mter all, you can always think of one state-to-state calls. more way to tell someone you love them So when you're asked to choose a long when you're on the phone. distance company, choose AThT. Because 
Let us count the ways you can save. with AThTs 60% and 40% discounts, you Just call weekends till 5pm Sundays, or can satisfy your heart's desire without from llpm to 8am, Sunday through Friday, exhausting your means. and you11 save 60% off AThT's Day Rate Reach out and touch someone;> 
© 1985 AT&T Communications 



-----------------------------------------~ 

Students offered a chance for own personal action 
P.O.BoxQ 
Much has been seen in recent months and even more said about starvation in various parts of Africa. Graphic and soul-wrenching film footage, brought to us via the ubiquitous video-window on world events, tugs at our emotions. We view emaciated children cling­ing to parched breasts as blank-faced mothers huddle in camps hastily constructed on bar-
Charles Geoffrion 
guest column 

ren plains. They are there in the thousands and we "see" them. They stare at us from the covers of the latest news magazines. We wonder at what horrid imbalance in nature has caused such human suffering, such en­vironmental collapse. We pause and then another headline appears, sweeping our focus before it like so many windblown falling leaves which visit our campus at this season. And we eat. 
We eat because we are hungry. We eat be­cause food is there on counters, in machines, laid before us in eloquent spread. We eat be­cause others are eating, because it is time to eat we are anxious, because we are depressed, because we "earned" a break. Mostly, we eat without thinking. 
Is it wrong to eat in such a manner? By most criteria, no it is not. Is it tragic that many are starving? Indeed, it is. Is there an apparent linkage between these two daily events? Can we tie together on the one hand the culinary extravagance of the gourmet, the "pork out" eating patterns ofsome, the mountains ofhalf­eaten dishes that are swilled in restaurant dumpsters and the harvest rotting in the field or in warehouses and, on the other hand, people picking through dung for undigested grain? 
This line of talk often is met with the prag­matist's answer on the complexities of supply patterns, the weaknesses of distribution net­works, the corruption of national regimes or the inability of proponents of disparat<: ideologies to cooperate. We read that the cur­rent per capita output of food in sub-Saharan Africa is less now than it was 20 years ago. We question national plans for industrialization which are benefits of forward thinking on the 
provision offood for the nation's citizens. The 
old African proverb holds truth, "When the 
elephants fight the grass is trampled." 
Must we then conclude that these events are so vast that they are out of our reach? Surely we cannot control such phenomena as the process of desertification. One wonders how the 'U.S. Corps of Engineers would respond? Surely what and how much we eat in the South and North Dining Halls or in our automated kitchens or at the drive-thru win­dows cannot affect conditions half a world . aw;ly. No one can answer these concerns for someone else. Each ofus must calculate a per­sonal cost benefit ratio of solidarity with the hungry. The answer and the action which fol­
lows is very private. 
This week the World Hunger Coalition of­
fers us an opportunity for action, a chance to 
make a ripple that can carry from this con­
tinent to another. Today is World Food Day, 
and tonight the dining halls will be offering 
students the chance to participate in the 
Simple Meal. And, if this action is joined by 
many, here and many others of like mind and 
action elsewhere, this ripple can become a 
soothing wave of comfort and one part of a 
complex situation to a current human dis­
aster. We do not need to think of our fellow 
Africans as so many blades of grass to be 
trampled by life's events. 
And if through that personal calculus we 
gain a new or intensified interior space, if 
eating rice and drinking tea for one meal out 
of the week's 21 scheduled meals gives us an 
important strength through action which 
helps us grow in other ways, if the pennies 
raised from our brief denial are compounded I ,
: ,

by the pennies ofothers providing significant 
funds for relief, then we have gained through 
giving and so have those for whom we gave. 
There is another African proverb that bears upon this Issue, one that applies to better times than today's drought-torn Eastern region: "No matter how hot the water from your well, it will not cook your rice." Action Is necesary, yours and mine and that of many ot­hers to lessen the likelihood that wells are dry and rice scarce. Our actions can count. It is very simple. One by one. 
Charles A. Geoffrion ts a faculty research consultant wttb tbe Instttute ofScbolarsbtp at Notre Dame. 


Healy sacrifices cause for his political health 
Dear Editor: 
Once again, it appears idealism and com­mitment have taken a back seat to diplomacy and decorum at Notre Dame. Specifically,! am referring to an announcement made at the anti-apartheid rally Friday. At the conclusion of the rally, it was made public that Bill Healy single-handedly stifled the politjcal voice of the: anti-apartheid movement. Healy, in what was obviously a power play, flexed his politi­cal muscle and removedJohn Dettling and Pat Baccanari from their cabinet positions in stu­dent government. Both Dettling and Bac­canari arc: actively involved with the Anti-Apartheid Network and have been meeting with the University's Board of Trus­tees in an attempt to modify Notre Dame's in­vestment policy. Healy fired them both, justifying his actions with vague terms like "abrasive:" and "rude" in describing their be­havior towards the board. 
Even the most casual observer can see what his real reasons were: Healy, in an expression of "me" politics, has no desire to clash with the: administration even on such an important matter as this. Divestment is not some trivial campus matter that should be subject to the capricious whims ofself-serving politics. Det­tling and Baccanari have devoted the last nine months to the analysis of the apartheid situa-

Doonesbury 
[)R. [), WHY [)() EJtCAUst !HE-IR 
8UT ()()NT YOU YtAH, THAT
j YOU PflCS5 A38-YCAR-ao 
BAfJ'I f;(XYrla?., ANO Ht'U. 
THIN!< THATHAV-PW5 YOU'RE
YOUF£&1... THe GtNERATIONAL. 
J
IN6 7HEIR. OWN 5TAI<TING 70
800Mti<S AI?& /CIENTITY HAP 
:· 

USUALLYAf?MIT THAT IN HI~ 
1<105/5 FINALI...Y 5££ THE FIRST
t 50085t.?SW tj() MUCH 70 flO 
, H£ARTOFH£AF<T5Ht5TILL 
~ PJ/TH 7H£ PfWB· WITH YCUTH, 
THINKS OF HIMSElF A~ MAKING 7H£ BaJI,1-WMtR.HEAKT 
tion, to discover Friday that their only Univer­
sity political outlet had been plugged by 
someone, who by his own admission, is only 
vaguely knowledgeable of the facts. 
The Anti-Apartheid Network will continue to push for divestment, only now its chief proponents have no voice in student govern­ment. Everyone involved with the movement is appalled at Healy's blatant willingness to sacrifice such a worthy cause to his personal success as a politician at Notre Dame. If not­hing else, Healy's true colors were raised in this incident. The struggle to end the desperate situation in South Africa is of little importance if a few feathers of the board get ruffled along the way. The price he is willing to pay for his political security is simply too high. 
DonnaMaus Walsh Hall 

Healy's impeachment will be new beginning 
Dear Editor: 

Bill Healy is conceivably the most incom­petent student government official at Notre · Dame since 1972 when a cat was elected vice president of the student body. Healy's ad­ministration is characterized by an endless series of debacles. He has consistently demonstrated that he represents the ad­ministration and not the students who elected 
him. The Observer "controversy," his refusal 
to !take a stand on the Dillon issue, and his 
recent firing of John Dettling and Pat Bac­
canari are only a few examples ofhis inability 
to run student government. 
Now he wants to disband the Student 
Senate. He claims that the senate is considered 
"a joke" by students. Ironically, Healy is 
responsible for many of the reasons why stu­
dents view student government as a joke. For 
example, the Committee for Responsible 
Business Practices took the issue of divest­
ment farther into the administration than any 
previous student initiative. How does Healy 
rea•ct to this remarkable accomplishment? He 
dismisses the two students who were directly 
responsible for the success ofthe committee. 
Indeed, the time has arrived for "a new begjnning:" not the dissolution ofthe Student Senate but the impeachment of our student bodly president. 
john Delaney Notre Dame student 

M[oral courage and guts lacking in Bill Healy 
Dec.1r Editor: 
I would like to thank John Dettling and Pat Baccanari for fighting for the oppressed majority in South Africa. They l)ave paid the price for standing up for their convictions by getlting the. axe from Student Body President Bill Healy. 
Garry Trudeau 
jJ H£Y, t..Er'S FKE THAT'LL IT HAVINGA [)()IT CORONARY IN YOUR. 81.1£ JEANS
J I IS EM8ARRA'35/NG. 

Why were these two students canned from the Committee for Responsible University Business Practices? Healy claims that they were rude. Please, Healy, tell that to the oppressed people of South Africa and to their leaders-surely they know that now is no time for tough, pointed questions regarding apar­theid, especially those directed to the chair­man ofthe board of mighty Notre Dame. God forbid that a mere student at America's "greatest Catholic school" should sincerely and repeatedly question a board member, much less the chairman. Healy, you were so right to deal with such grotesque acts so swiftly and decisively. But as to divestment, we had better take a more cautious, wait-and­see approach. After all, ifwe take our money out, someone else will collaborate with evil in our place. If there is going to be evil in the world, let us have Our Lady's University directly involved. 
Excuse me for getting off the track, but really Healy, were these two students that rude? I bet they did not bow to the administra­tion, unlike some members of our "student" government. Again, Dettling and Baccanari must pay the price for their offensiveness to some; their resumes will have to be retyped. At least they can go to sleep at night knowing that they have shown moral courage and guts, two qualities which were sadly lacking in our student body president last week. 
Mtke Brogioli Howard Hall 

Quote of the day 
"The next time you feel like complaining, remember that your garbage disposal probably eats better than do 30 percent of the people in this world." 
Robert Orben 

Editorial Board Operations Board 




The ObserYer-~~~~ 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager .. ........... Dav1d Stephenllch
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ......... . William J. H1ghducheck 
News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager . ............... Jim Hagan The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager ................ Mark B. Johnson Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager... ................ John A. Mennell adm1mstrat1on of e1ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
,

Sible. Uns1gned editonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Cornman· 
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healylanes. le"ers and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on Photograp1~y Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through le"ers. is encouraged. Copy Chiel' .............................................. Frank Upo Founded November 3, 1966 




Accent 

T 

he darkness ofthe morning is like India ink. Cold, opaque, and unyielding. 
The drizzle coming down doesn't warm things. It isn't raining hard, but it is raining steadily. 
The setting moon reflects otfof the rain-marred surface ofSt. Joseph's River. In the distance, over the autumn colored trees, the skyline ofSouth Bend twinkles and shimmers through the falling rain. It looks almost noble in the morning. 
The first dull rays ofsunshine

r 
r struggle through the rain until they come to rest on a group of 
r determined, intrepid men and 
r women. 
r Who is up at 5 in the morning to 
r witness this beautiful spectacle? 
r What sacred rite brings them to the muddy banks ofSt. Joseph's River? Wbo is this resolute band of drowned rats? 
r 
"We are not the 
sailing club," said 
Mike Songer, 
president of the 
Notre Dame Rowing 
Club. 
Ofcourse, these are the members ofthe club that claims to have the highest membership ofany student organization at Notre Dame --The Notre Dame Rowing Club. 
This year marks the 20th anniver­sary ofthe Crew Team at Notre. Dame, and ifthe enthusiasm and optimism of its members is any indication, the Notre Dame Com­munity will be hearing from the Crew Team for many years to come. 
When most people hear the phrase "Crew Team," they generally think ofone ofthe follow­ing things: Weirdos who are suspi­ciously alive at 5 in the morning; Harvard; Yale; Rob Lowe in "Oxford Blues"; or the sailing club. This last thought seems to bother the mem­bers ofthe crew team the most. 
"We are not the sailing club," said Mike Songer, president ofthe Notre Dame Rowing Club. The main problem that the crew team 




troke! 
Kevin D. Walsh 
features writer 
has may not involve any 

misconceptions held about it, but 
rather the lack ofany conceptions. 
The crew team consists of 200 
men and women from Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's. All first-year 

rowers are categorized as novices, 
but after that first year on the crew 
everyone is considered varsity. 
Consequently, the group ranges 
from 17-year-old Freshmen all the 
way to a 30-year-old Notre Dame 
law student. 

The varsity crew distance season 
begins in September and ends about two weeks into November. Winter workouts are held indoors while ice covers their practice field. After spring break, the sprint season starts. 
Rowing, according to Songer, is the most demanding sport around, as it exercises every muscle. " Most people see rowing as keying in on the arms, but actually it is primarily a leg sport," he said. 
"Rowing is also the ultimate team sport, because ifone guy decides not to row, the boat goes nowhere." he added. This becomes evident whenever one watches the rowers closely. 
The success ofthe entire boat relies on the competence ofeach person. 
Rowing is also an incredibly expensive sport. The boats, which are made offiberglass, cost between S7,000 and $9,000, and a single oar costs approximately S250. The team, because it is actually a "club" and not a varsity sport, is subsidized mainly by fund·raisers and alumni support. 
Coming up for the Rowing Club are several big meets. On Oct. 20, the women's varsity team, coached by Mugs O'Hearn, will enter the Head ofthe Charles Race in Boston which is considered the single biggest fall race in rowing. On Nov. 9, both varsity squads will go down to Knoxville for the Head ofthe Tennessee Race where they expect to dowell. 
The club prides itself on the professionalism and smoothness with which it is run. Even though.it is technically just a club, it com­petes with and defeats many varsity teams. It is not, however, quite up 
TbeOblerver/Stepben Blaha The Notre Dame Rowing Club takes to the river one ofthose mornings. 
------------------------------------------~------------------------------­
"·~ 
Juntnr Jtartntsf lllttktnb 
~·v 
.Applications for llliJJIIII C!lf1airperson are now auailable in tllt &tubent .Artiuities ®ffire l.&t floor &~ortune 
**'*' 
ieabline is Wf1ursllau. ®ct. 17, 1985. 

'*'** 
.......MakeksnaW)! ..
~~ 
•••••• r1fj
CAR RENTAL 
Snappy Car Rental offers you Unlimited Miles Low Daily Rental Rates 
$26.95-29.95 
Lincoln Town Cars 
Chrysler Fifth~Avenues Ford L TD's/Tempos Chevy Citations  South Bend (219)277-6600 Fort Wayne (219)436-6666  
Indianapolis (317)845-9100  
Indianapolis  

Thanks to you... • 
It works ... 

for ALL OF US ..,....... 
Help Prevent Birth Defects ~ Support the 
'li'~~t9oQ~9.U2!W~ 

'oo1Wo,,.e INDIANA 
\rnllonopollote 
IMI•"'~". 


(317)247-0333

Nationwide Reservations 1-800-321-7159 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
Wednesday, October 16, 1985-page 6 ­
7 

to the level of Harvard or Yale, 
although Songer says he isn't the 
least bit intimidated by the famous 
Ivy League competition. "We'll be 
there soon," he says confidently. 
As anybody who has watched crew knows, It is a beautiful spec· tator sport. The people ofSouth Bend come out in droves in the spring to sit along the banks ofSt. 
Joseph's River with a picnic and watch rowing all day long. The 
members of the team appreciate that. 
Rowing is the most demanding sport .. 
There Is a certain element ofrisk 
in rowing. "Wherever water Is 
involved, you have danger," said 
Chris Nyc:, the coach ofthe men's 
varsity team. "People have actually 
been killed doing this," he added. 
Perhaps the most Intriguing 
aspect ofthe crew team is the fact 
that very few people come to Notre 
Dame knowing anything about 
rowing. That was the case with last 
year's captain, John Yunger, al­
though last year he was a member 
of the llnited States national team. 
"I just came out for it. I thought it 
might be fun, but I got hooked on It 
and now I'm down here doing all 
this stuff," said Songer, as he waved 
his hands around the boathouse In a 
mock grandiose fashion. 
Junior Greg Shadid said that 
"people" was the major reason he 
would give to someone who 
wanted to try out for the crew 
team. "The people are a lot offun. 
Hard work kind of brings you close 
together." 
But what about the morning practices? "After a while, you like the sport so much that the morning practices don't seem so bad " Shadid said. ' 
Anyone interested may go down to the end of Notre Dame Avenue to the boathouse some afternoon and watch the novice practices. Watching the boats glide over the surface of the glassy river, seemingly without effort, Is calming and it Is easy to see why the people 
ofSouth Bend, and the members of 
much. 

John Ralph adjust their footstretchers in preparation for a race.this club, enjoy the crew team so Below: The c1ew is trying not to make a big splash at Saturday's Regatta.  And Alternate Realities  
Reality, what a concept for Who Gertie Wimmer features copy editor W ho Is "Who"? Although this There are currently about 30 fans. He shocked the fan world a sounds like a rhetorical ques­members, but Stivers says that he is few years ago when he married tion, it would be: an insult or a sign always looking for more to "come then costar and companion of your Ignorance to the members out of the closet." "Romana" before both ofthem left of the Dr. Who Club. The show Is filled with good­the series. They are now separated, As any true "Who-ite" knows, the natured misadventure, especially as notes an amused Stivers. character of Dr. Who was "born" on the Tardls and its master, the doc­This show has something forNov. 23, 1963 as the main character tor, tend to land on Earth. everyone, not merely for fans oftheIn a  
Charles Lobdell features writer  
C heck the lights! Get that Alternate Realities' main make-up man back here! purpose Is to provide com­Cue the cameras! Places munication between people everyone. Quiet on the set and .. whose interests include science­. action! fiction and fantasy. This Is done "Hello Earthlings! During the using a directory and a newslet­night there was a small change In ter. The directory, which will list the power structure ofyour all members and their Interests world. We are now in control. and will be published soon after "Who ar~we? Good question, October break. The newsletter, and as soon as we feel like telling which contains announcements, 
BBC science fantasy series. science fiction genre. It is a light­The Idea behind the character of hearted show with a low-budgetthe doctor is one best suited to a A light-hearted that makes the special effects, soap opera, although the theme Is which at times have included pure fantasy. The doctor is a rebel show with a low characters covered with tin foilin the universe, due to his theft ofa budget that makes nearly hilarious. The show isn't'Tardis, a fantastic machine that intended to represent life or reality,allows its owner not only space but the special effects, and the clumsy effects only add toalso time travel. As anyone who which have, at its charm. watches the show faithfully well  you, we'll let you know." columns, and articles by mem-An introduction to a bad movie or this morning's news? ND/SMC clubs Actually, it's just the dream of four slightly, but happily ~ Alternate deranged people called, ~Realities naturally, the Five. Their club, Alternate Realities, hers, is published on a fairly is a front for a worldwide sub­regular basis.  
knows, the Tardis, which more than The doctor is usually played bytimes included vaguely resembles a British police an excellent actor, and the scripts call box, was in the repair shop characters covered are geared toward a rather intellec­when the doctor first stole it. tual crowd. The doctor's com­with tin foil, nearlyix actors so far have played theSpanions range from a jungle girl character of the doctor in this hilarious. named Lealah, who appears in a longest-running science fiction leather loincloth, to a mechanical series ofall time, and have gathered pet with an endearing voice, called enough ofa following to attain cult The actors who played this K-9. Another favorite character is status among the members of the popular cult figure, whose other the archrival ofthe doctor, another Dr. Who club. title is Time Lord, includeJon rebel Time Lord from Gallifrey To be a member of the Dr. Who Pertwee and Peter Davison, and the called the Master, although threac­Club, an offshoot of Notre Dame's current actor is (:olin Baker. herous Cybermen and Daleks also Gaming Club, ali one has to do is The most popular doctor, accord-rank at the top ofthe enemy list. watch the program, which is on ing to clubpresidentjim Stivers, is One ofthe best things about the every Sunday at I I p.m. on Channel Tom Baker, who is no relatiort to doctor, though, is that he is fun. And I I. The club does get together for a the actor now playing the part. ifthe two reigning officers ofthe weekly group viewing at Cavanaugh Baker has become a myth both on Dr. Who club are anything to go by, and off the screen for many Who so is the club.  versive group of malcontents, The club was founded in late paranoids, and scence-fiction 1984 by four students who readers bent on total world simply wanted to meet other domination. students who shared their obses­I know its true because they sion with science-fiction. As the told me so. And large worldwide sun rose the next morning . organizations that are currently though, the simple idea had subverting the world wouldn't turned into a constitution. lie, would they? The club's current major ac­In reality, Alternate Realities is tivity is the publication ofthe the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's newsletter, but It also shows Science-Fiction/Fantasy Club. It movies and holds discussion is open to any creature on either groups. It is also working on campus who has an interest in getting a few speakers for next science fiction, heroic fantasy, semester. comic books, movies relating to The club is run out ofroom any ofthe above themes, and 820 in Grace Hall. For further anything out ofthe ordinary. information, call4223.  

Hall. 

whereabouta, pJeue (and I do maen ~) call JIM at 1736 or atop by 707 GRACE HALL. REWARD BEING OF­FERED! 
HELP! I LOST A GOLD CLADDAGH RING (lWO HANDS HOLDING A CROWNED HEART, IRELAND STAMPED ON INSIDE). COULD BE ANYWHERE:ap. Lewis, O'Shag/Decio 
Morriuay •-· Hu IMMEASURABLE SENTIMENTLE VALUEI If found PLEASE call 12108. THANK YOU II 
16111. 
FOR SALE: $26 OF CREDIT AT PASS PETS AT UNIVERSITY PARK MALL: ENOUGH TO BUY A LOT OF FISH OR A VERY, VERY SMAll 000, MAYBE. ON SALE FOR A RIDICULOUS $20. CALL 1723, ASK FOR TONY. PRICE IS NEGOTIABLE, BUT ONLY A BIT. 
1873 8MB Q9 Mechanicallly sound. FWD maku it -in snow. Xlnt winter car for theae ~-Bil 233-6788 
DAVE 1848 
NEED USC TIX 2 GA & 2 STUD HAVE 2 STUD TIX FOR ALL GAMES CALL RED 1596 
I NEED AJIIIY A USC GAe.232-1481 
I NEED TWO ARMY GA'S. PLEASE CALL MAUREEN 1080 
NEED 2 ARMY GA $20EA CALL JIM 1605 
ALL STUDENTS ARE INVITED 
HEYYOUIII 
I need a ride to Penaacofa, Florida or somewhere close (Mobile, Albama) after the Army game Saturday or Sunday 
PLEASE CALL 808 AT 2t177 
hopei). -M squared 
WOMEN'S CREW TEAM -Good luct< in Boston! Oo it lor yourselves and us too. Dig deep inaida. DRAGON. 
TOM POWERS IS COMING TOM POWERS IS COMING TOM POWERS IS COMING TOM POWERS IS COMING TOM POWERS IS COMING TOM POWERS IS COMING 
SEE TOMORROW'S ADD! 
....................................................
~··········· 

next aemealer' BE A HAPPY CAMP anyway! AGB 
RQB.DID YOU BREAK YOUR DIALI 
FINGER OR WHAT? MB 
I DON'T NEED THIS, I CAN DO A L BETTER! 
AlTENTlON ALUMNI RUIDENT11 
you want to know who the fling queen i Call her wild roomie Sue at 4403 SMC-1 rumored that she knows all!! 

The Observer Wednesday, October 16, 1985 -page 9 . ' 




Irish meet Akron today 
Sp«lal to The Obecrvcr 
The Notre Dame soccer team will take its 4-8-4 record to Akron, Ohio, today for the third ofsix consecutive games on the road. '11te Irish will meet the Zips in a game scheduled for 4 p.m. on Akron's Lee jackson Field. 
'11te Zips. traditionally national contenders, have a 6-3-3 record. They are 4-0 in all games against Notre Dame, including a 1-0 victory over the Irish last season on Alumni Field. 
Notre Dame is coming off a win and a tie last weekend in the Redbird-Beer Nut Invitational in Normal, Ill. The Irish beat Vander­bilt, 2-I, before playing host Illinois State to a 2-2 tie. 
'11te first-year Irish players continued to lead the team, as Randy Morris, Bruce McCourt and joe Sternberg tallied goals with two as­sists each from Tom Gerlacher and Kurt Roemer. 
Gerlacher, McCourt and Morris were named to the all­tournament team. 
Notre Dame finished second in the four-team tournament. 
After a trip to Florida and North Carolina during break, the Irish will play at home again on Oct. 30, when they play host to Valparaiso. 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team officially began practice yestertlay for the 1985-86 season with four newcomers. They are, from left, freshman guard Michael Smith (32), sophomore forward 

The ot.enft/Hect« Nun<> 

Steve Nicgorski (20), freshman forward Sean Con· nor (33), ana freshman guard Mark Stevenson (24). The Irish will open the season Nov. 20 at the ACC against Smelt Olimpija ofYugoslavia. 

Belles 
continuedfrom page 12 
jury. Lambert noted that with Suth out of the rotation, some adjust­ments had to be made which may have caused the Belles some defensive problems. 
Huntington took advantage of a slow Belles' start in game one, jum­ping to an early 5-1 advantage. Frlesh­man standout Margaret Feldman had some nice hits along with some fine defensive plays as the Belles held off five Huntington game points before surrendering, 15-5. 
In game two Feldman again went to work, lifting the Belles to an early 3-2 lead. Huntington then posted 
.Juniars, Seniars Came Meet 


LlFE & CASUALTY 
Manday!l Dc:t. 28--7:BDp University Club 
L•t: A•t:na r•pr•••nt:at:iv•• t:•ll yau abaut: aur aumm•r int:•rn and p•rman•nt:, f\111-t:im• paait:ian• in bat:h aur Harl:fard, Ct:. Ham• Dffic• and nat:ianal 
fi•ld affic• lacat:iana. 
three unanswered points before 
sophomore Kara Tekulve delivered 
a couple ofsideline shots to knot the 
score at five. 
Just when it looked like Saint 
Mary's was picking up the momen­
tum, the Belles missed their serve, 
something they would do at several 
crucial times during the night. 
Some nice hits by Sallie Terrell, a newcomer to the team, aided the Belles as they took a 10-7 edge. Then with the score 11-9, Belles, Telrulve and Mary Reidy teamed up for some nice plays. But once again a missed Belle' serve allowed Huntington to regroup, and the visitors delivered two unreturnable serves. The Belles, unable to put any more points on the 
board, fell 15-ll. UJ.mbert commented on Terrell's performance based on the two 
weeks she has been a member ofthe team. 
"She has been a real asset attitude­and playing-wise. This was the first night she played a lot and she did well," said Lambert. 
Bethel whose team consists of four Mishawaka Marian High School players and teammates ofSuth, are a better team than their 3-14 record would indicate. 
Several long volleys and a good match up at the net between Reidy and Bethel's power hitter Lori Mas­sing, proved for some exciting play, depite the final 15-3 score. · On Saturday, the Belles will try and improve on their record when they travel to Manchester, Ind., where they will take part in a four­team tournament with Manchester, Anderson and Goshen Colleges. 
Another Huge 

SALE 
at 

DISCOUNT RECORDS & TAPES 
CLASSICAL 
TAPES 

3/$1 ooo 
LbNDON•DG• 

PHILLIPS • COLUMBIA • ANGEL • RCA 1 00s at J!!!t 
YOU CAN WALK TO TRACKS At the comer of Edison Rd & St. Rd. 23 Just across &om the King's Cellar 
IOto 9dally 1631 E. Edt10n II to 8 Sunday South Bend 

INDIANA'S FINEST DISCOUNT RECORD STORE 


The Observer 

reboundedfrom a serious wrist injury to play a key 
reserve role for tbe Irish this year. Dennis Corrigan features tbe dedicated player in bis story below. 
• 
r 
Linebacker overcomes injuries 

Weissenhofer provides consistency 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
Injuries. The word spreads fear through players and coaches alike. They can ruin or end seasons and careers. Fourth-year junior linebacker Ron Weissenhofer knows too well the effect that injuries can have on a career. In 1983, Weissen· hofer &actured his right wrist while taking part in autumn two-a-day practices. 
"I thought I might never get back to 100 percent physically or men· tally," says Weissenhofer of the in· jury. "I didn't think I'd be able to help the team again. 
"I had confidence in myself, though, to come back. It's part of getting the job done and making a contribution." 
Weissenhofer was red·shirted for his entire sophomore season and missed the first two games of last year's season. He finally returned to action with a start against Colorado, filling in for an injured Mike Kovaleski. W eissenhofer also started in place of Kovaleski against South Carolina and Navy. In the South Carolina game, he even led the team with 13 tackles. 
Filling in for Kovaleski and per· forming well proved to be a bonus for the entire linebacking corps. 
"(Ron's) reliability has made him invaluable," says Irish inside linebacker coach George Kelly. "I'm convinced he can be a contributer. He's consistent in his play at either position." 
Weissenhofer agrees that his role 
offilling in for other players has had 
benefits. 
"It makes (Kovaleski) and me work harder," he says. "It's com· petitive. It helps." 
Still, though, the injury to hiswrist 

Royals 
continuedfrom page 12 
was sacrificed to second. 
The hit finished Alexander, and Smith greeted Dennis Lamp with a check-swing, opposite-field double down the right-field line that scored Biancalana. 
-
Mark Gubicza, forced into a start· ing role for the Royals, kept Kansas City on even terms through five in· 
nings, getting the victory with help from Bud Black, who pitched 3 1/3 innings before givingway to Quisen· beery. 
Quisenberry got the final out in all 14 of Gubicza's regular-season vic· tories, getting saves in 11 of those 
games. 
Black started Game 2 and was originally scheduled to start the sixth game. But he was scratched when manager Dick Howser had him warm up for a possible relief and the brace he now wears on the wrist have hampered his play. 
"Ron has progressed on schedule, if there is such a thing," say.s Kelly. "This spring was his first solid per· formance because ofthe injury. He's very reliable, but still is inhibited by the wrist." 
"A linebacker has to use his hands," says Weissenhofer. "I can't use mine as much as I'd like because ofthe brace." 
Through it all, however, Weissen· hofer enjoys his position in the linebacking unit. 
"I think we're really tough. It's the best position on the defensive unit and on the field because everyth­ing's in front ofyou, " notes Weissen· hofer. "You should be in on every play." 
Weissenhofer is an athlete who both enjoys the game and has used it to further his life off the field. 
"I like football. It's treated me well. I'm happy to play and do my part, and it has allowed me to get a good education. 
"Growing up in Chicago, going to Notre Dame was always in the back of my mind," continues Weissen­hofer. "I didn't think I'd make it, but here lam." 
Although he is a junior in terms of eligibilty, Weissenhoffer is a senior marketing major. After graduation this spring, he hopes to get into a. graduate program at Notre Dame in order to retain his final year of eligibility. While he is looking for­ward to next year, Weissenhofer still has expectations for this season. 
"I'm still looking for a good season," he says. "This season's not over by any means. We're still a good team. I try to ignore the stuffpeople say about us. They don't go to our meetings or our practices, and they don't know football. I still have con· 
role in Sunday's fifth game, which 
the Royals won 2·0 behind Danny Jackson's gutty eight-hitter. 
That left it up to Gubicza, a starter all season who began the playoffi; in the bullpen. Gubicza, who threw three shutout innings of relief in Gamel, pitched 5 l/3 innings in his first start since Oct. 4. 
Trailing 5·2, the Blue jays tried to rally against Gubicza in the sixth. lloyd Moseby led off with a single and Willie Upshaw drew a one-out walk, which prompted many fans among the crowd of 3 7,55 7 to wave large Canadian flags. 
Howser then brought in Black, who yielded a run-scoring single to pinch-hitter CliffJohnson that made it 5·3. 
Black ran into further problems 
when he threw a wild pitch that put 
a runner at third and the potential 
tying run at second, but shut down 
Toronto by retiring George Bell and 
Ernie Whitt on foul outs. 
fidence. We're not out ofit." 

Off the field, the 6·3, 221-pound Weissenhofer enjoys playing softball and pool. 
"I really like pool," he adds. "It's relaxing to get away from the books and the physical contact." 
Football, though, remains his game of choice. After overcoming severe injury, Weissenhofer is ready now to play a l~ge~ole. 


Wednesday, October 16, 1985-page 10 

Briefs 

continuedfrom page 8 
SMC intramuraltennis tournament entries will be accepted at the Angela Athletic Facility until Friday. Both singles and doubles matches will be played. · Tbe Observer 
The ND basketball team will hold scrimmages each ofthe next two Saturdays. The Irish will work out at 3:30p.m. this Saturday, immediately following the Army football game. The team also will scrimmage at 4:30 p.m. on Oct. 26, immediately fol· lowing the USC football game. Both scrimmages will be in the ACC and free to the public. · Tbe Observer 

II 
I 

50 cent Mug­Night. Bring your 
mug end fill it for 50 cents!!! THURS.-$(oo Imports!!! FRI.-Lunch: Beer, Pi zze, & Subs!!! 
COME SATURDAV AND CELEBRATE THE IRISH VI CTORV!!! 
FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1069 239-7521 






~~.cllC3L~----------------------------------------~--ed_n_e_s_d_a_y_,o__c_to.b_e_r_1_6_,_1_9_8_5
___P_a_g_e_l_l 

Bloom County 
MQTH!/f... t.tJVe Of MY FM Ot!J',I0"JAAr,t l.l/t... MfY Gfii:R(£. 
11/l£ )0(1fOE ,? 
\ 

Zeto 
ACROSS 1 Make fun of 5 Indian prince 
10 Military 
truant 14 Desert·llke 15 Roman 
magistrate 16 Idem 17 Printing term 18 Joy 20 Gr. letter 21 Lone 22 S.A. plains 23 Red Ink entry 25 Row 26 Tic---toe 27 Noisy ones 31 Youthful 35 Tattle 36 Lulu 37 River to the 
Rhine 38-colada 39 Watering spot 40 Carroll poem 44 VIctors 
perhaps 46 Geologic time 47 Indian city 48 Trudged 52 God of the 
Hebrews 55 Boer assembly 
7HifT'S &Kei/T.
HOW MANY IS 
1HifTNOW 1 1Hf(C6? 
f 
fWfJ HOW MIINY RJI( {JII{J 1 FIVe. 
I 
\1:)1985 Tribune Media Services, inc. All Rights Reserved 
11 Farm wagon 12 Melville work 13 Eye part 19 Alaskan 
56 Wedding words Islander 57 Playfulness 21 Peruse 59 Lock-up site 24 Roman road 60 Saudi 25 "Over-" 61 Dike 27 Strikebreakers 62 Poker fee 28-Clapton 63 Scratch out 29 Standing 64 Disburse 30 Corset rib 65 Bulk 31 Duties 
32 Sloth 
DOWN 33 Action word 1 Exhausted 34 Israeli native 2 Sharp ridge 38 Frog's domain 3 Rice dish 40 Of the cheek 4 Dutch commune 41 Antennae 5 Celebrate 42 Passed on 6 Man or woman 43 Snead need 7 Agree 45 River of song 50 Blue-pencils 8 Muhammad -48 Eucharist 51 Metes 9 Rowdy one plate 52 Notqulte 
10 Jumping from 49 Goddess of shut fright the hunt 53 Dumb-



Ireland 
59 Pickle 

Program 
Information Meeting 
TONIGHT 
6:30p.m. 304 Haggar College Center SMC 

Newcomers Welcome Applications Distributed 

Berke Brc~athed The Far Side Gary Larson 
NINe flfVOI{C6S WITHIN MY IMM€fl/f/TG FIIMI/.Y. COM5Kf/TTI/.111701VS, MOM. Hf/V( 1/NY OH !JTtvlc; 
.? WHe~r IlK( Yot/ {.o#Nf/ &ert"'IIKRteP 1 
/ 
Kevin Walsh 

Luposlipaphobia: The fear of being pursued by timber wolves around a kitchen table while wearing socks on a newly waxed floor. 



54 Wood sorrels 55 Sunder 58 Congressman 
for short 


Campus 
•11:00 
A.M. -3:00 P.M. -Law School Caravan, 100 Law School Representatives, Stepan Center, Spon:;ored by Notre Dame/~t. Mary's Pre-Law Socic:ty and Career and Place­ment Services 

•5:15 
P.M. -Mass, World Food Day Mass, Sacred Heart Church 

•6:00 
P.M. -8:00 P.M. · Meedng, Sign-ups for the months ofNovember and December, New Orleans Room, I:.Fortune Student Center, Sponsored by Shelter· For The Homeless 

•6:
15 P.M. -General Meetfna. Center for So­cial Concerns, Sponsored by Circle K 

•7:00 
P.M. · Fello'WIIhip Meedng, Keenan Chapel, Sponsored by Spiritual Rock 

•7:00 
P.M. · Meeting, 223 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by Notre Dame Toastmasters Club 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Spaghetti and Spirals with Meat Sauce Broilt:d Lamb Chop Haddock Almandine Garden Salad Sandwich 

TV Tonight 
6:00P.M.  16  NewsCentcr 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
6:30P.M.  16  MASH  
22  Thr·ee's Company  
7:00P.M.  16  198'5  League  Championship  
Series 7 American League East  
22  Stir Crazy  
28  The Insiders  
46  Fall Telethon  
8:00P.M.  22  Charlie and Company  
28  Dynasty  
34  Aaron Copland:  An  American  
Masters Special  
8:30 P.M.  22  George Burns' Comedy  
9:00P.M.  22  The Equalizer  
28  Hotel  

10:00 P.M. 
10:30 P.M. 
11:00 P.M. 
11:30 P.M. 
12:30 A.M. 1 :00 A.M. 

.---·--Ibe-0-=bse"-. -_1..-=Y=-'-'-.L"'-~~-__ 
An independent student newspaper serving 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­
plications for the following positions: 
• News Editor e DayChmef 
Questions should be directed to Sarah Hamilton or Amy Stephan. Resumes and personal statements are due Thursday, October ·17 at 5 p.m. 
For more intormation, call The Observer at 239·5313 
•7:00 
P.M.-Wednesday NJabt Film Serla, "The Band Wagon", Loft 

•7:00 
P.M. -Exxon Lecture Series, Super Hero Comics and Italian Renaissance Art, Samuel Edgerton, Amos l:iwrence Profeseor of Art, Williams College, AnnenberJ Auditorium, Sponsored by College ofArts and Letters and the Department ofArt, Art History and Design 

•7:00, 
9:15 and 11:30 P.M.· SAB Film, "lbe Godfather", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, •1.50 

•7:30 
P.M. -Filma, "5 Minutes to Mldnipt" and Footage from World Food Day Telecoo­ference, Center for Social Concerns Auditorium, Sponsored by World Hungoer Coalition 


Saint Mary's Turkey Cutlet with Parsley Sauce 
Filet offish Parisien Fresh Vegetable Omelet Foot1ong Hotdogs 
34 The Skin Horse 16 NewsCc:ntc:r 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Space Senator: "One Way jake:" 16 Tonight Show 22 TJ. Hookc:r/CBS Late Movie • 
"Cleopatrajonc:s" 
28 ABC News Nlghtline 28 Eye: On Holywood 34 Body lectric 16 David Letterman show 34 Film Du]our: "Nothing Sacrc:d" 16 Allin the: PamUy 
22 . Nightwatch 

-
~====-~ '-..... 

Another inexpensive B-day ad. 
~~-----.~--------------------------------------------~------------~--------~--~--~ 
Wednesday, October 16, 1985-page 12




SRorts 
Late goal brings Irish 1-1 tie in battle with Central Mich. 

ByKENT R. WELDON 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame field hockey team came from behind Friday after­noon at Central Michigan to tie the host school, 1·1, on a late score by senior halfback Melissa Sommer. The tie against the Chippewas moves the Irish record to 7-4-2 as they prepare to head East for four key games over fall break. 
Central Michigan's lone goal came in the first half, but the Notre Dame defense, led by senior goalie Patti Gallagher ( 15 saves on the day), played solidly. They held on until the clock wound down to two and one-half minutes left in the game when the Irish finally got on the scoreboard. Sommer scored for Notre Dame when she slid the ball past the Chippewa's goaltender. 
The Irish then held tight for two overtime periods, but they could not put anything on the scoreboard and the game ended deadlocked. 
Although the outcome did not add a victory to Notre Dame.'s record, Head Coach Jill Lindenfeld was satisfied with her team's perfor· mance. 
"We played a really good game considering (Central Michigan) is having its best season ever at 13·3," said Lindenfeld. "They carry seven full scholarships." 
Tqose scholarships did not prove to be an advantage Friday as a makes· hift Notre Dame lineup held its own for the entire game. the Irish, who started the game without the services .of sophomore forward Benet DeBerry, lost a second regular player in the first half when senior defensive link Mary Struckoff went down with an injury. Still, the Notre Dame substitutes were able to do the job. 
"I am very pleased with the playof my substitutes,". said Lindenfeld. "They did a good job, especially Mary Wagner at right inside and freshman Caroline Berezny who replaced Mary (Struckoff) at right link." 
The second game ofthe weekend, which was scheduled for Saturday morning against Eastern Michigan, was cancelled and not rescheduled. 
Before the Irish come home for their final game on Cartier Field, Oc· tober 30, they will play four games 
1be Obaerver/Hannes Hackrr 
Forward Beth Bisignano of the Irish field hockey team goes for the ball in a game earlier this season. On Friday, the Irish tied Central Michigan, 1·1, to move their record to 7-4-2 and to set up a crucial four-game road trip over fall break.Kent Weldon gives 
Brett, Royals beat Toronto, 5-3, 
to set up crucial seventh contest 
TORONTO George Brett's record ninth playoffhome run broke a fifth-inning tie last night, triggering the Kansas City Royals to a 5·3 tri· umph over the Toronto Blue Jays and forcing the American League playoffs to a decisive seventh game. 
The Royals, who trailed the series 3·1 at one point, will start 20-game winner Bret Saberhagen in tonight's seventh game. Toronto will answer with its own ace, right-hander Dave Stieb, who won the opener. 
Brett again gave Kansas City the spark it needed, and once again his victim was Blue Jays starter Doyle Alexander. In Game 3, Brett homered twice and doubled off Alexander during a four-for-four night that enabled the Royals to win their first game ofthis series and end a 1 0-game postseason losing streak. 
This time, Brett homered far over the right-center field fence with one out in the fifth to break a 2· 2 tie. The homer, which moved him past Steve Garvey for the most home runs in major league playoff history, came one pitch after . he swung and awkwardly missed a 2·1 delivery from Alexander. 
Unlike his one-man performance in Game 3, Brett had plenty of help from his teammates on the clear, 54· degree night as Kansas City again frustrated Toronto's attempt to bring the first World Series to Canada. 
Dan Quisenberry, who gave up two game-winning hits earlier in the series, came on with two outs and two on in the ninth. Once again out East over the midsemester break. 
It will not be much ofa "break" for the team, however, as it will face off on Friday against the College of Wooster, a strong Division Ill team. Then on Monday the Irish will meet Trenton State, a team which Linden­feld thinks will give her squad the toughest game ofthe vacation. 
The following day Notre Dame travels to Lancaster, Penn. to face Franklin & Marshall College, a good team from a strongfield hockey area. After this battle the Irish will take a day off and practice before squaring off against LaSalle University in Philadelphia on Thursday. 
This is a pivotal point in Notre Dame's season, and this short road trip could make or break the Irish. Lindenfeld says that it probably will not break them as the 7 -4· 2 record is very representative of her team's consistent and steadily-improving play. 
"It will be tough because the games are all away," notes Linden· feld, "but ifwe playwell I predict we will co111e home at 10·5·2, and pos· sibly 11·4·2." 
details in his story at left. 
facing the winning run, Quisenberry struck out Garth Iorg to end the game. Iorg threw his bat towards the 
Belles volleyball team loses backstop in disgust as he walked away from the plate. 
a pair to Huntington, Bethel 
Veteran Hal McRae, playing in his 
-
44th postseason game, singled home Kansas City's first run in the first in· ning, and doubled home the second run in the third. McRae followed Brett's homer with a single for his third hit of the game, but was left stranded. 
Buddy Biancalana and Lonnie Smith delivered RBI doubles in the sixth that increased the lead to 5· 2. 
Biancalana, just 1-for-1 0 in the playoffs before a single in the second inning, doubled homeJim Sundberg, who led offthe sixth with a walk and 
see ROYALS, page 10 

By KELLY PORTOLESE 
SaintMary's Sports Editor 

It's back to the drawing board ac· cording to Saint Mary's volleyball coach Mary Jo Lamben after her team dropped .two matches in straight games last night to Hun· tington and Bethel Colleges. 
The Belles needed a victory over fellow NAIA member Huntington to qualify for the district tournament, but the 15·5, 15·11 loss leaves the Belles' post-seasOn play hopes in doubt. 
Bethel, an NCCAA division team, handed the Belles their seventeenth loss ofthe season against six wins by taking the match 15·3, 1 5·13. 
"We are going to look ahead and hope we can finish off the season better," said Lambert. "We'll work hard the next few days and look for· ward to the Manchester tournament this weekend." 
The Belles were without the services of outside hitter Tami Suth who was sidelined with a knee in· 
see BELLES, page 9 



Notre Dame bandwagon needs riders now 
Hi there. I am the leader of the band. Actually, I'm the 
driver ofthe wagon. Actually, we use Indiana Motor Buses 
more often than wagons these days. But I'm getting into 
these cliches, so we'll just say I drive the bandwagon, OK? 
Now, I know you've heard about me. No, no, not that story. I mean, you've heard about the bandwagon. People are always jumping on and off, which makes it pretty darn hard to drive the thing. 
Anyway, today is my day off. Usually I don't get a day off because ofall the passengers I have to pick up and drop off all the time. Nobody's paying much attention to the ol' wagon today. though. I think it has something to do with everybody being apathetic, which means tomorrow I'll probably be driving the apathy bandwagon. 
Anyway, I don't want to talk about apathy. I mean, I know it's a problem, but I just don't care. 
I just figured since it was my day off and all that I would share with you some stories about some ofthe people who have jumped on the bandwagon at Notre Dame at one time or another. 
First ofall, let me tell you that I have never, in 20 years of this job, driven a band around on the wagon. As a matter of fact, I kind ofwish all I had to do was drive around a bunch of musicians (If Bruce and the E. Street guys want a bus driver, I'll be the first to apply). Truth is, my job is just a little bit harder when I have to take care ofunruly people. 
I remember last year driving around all of those silly Cubs fans. Boy, they were an obnoxious lot. I was never so happy as when their team finally lost and they all went crawling back into the "Yoodwork from which they had emerged. 
Of course, a lot of those same people are coming back 
Phil 
Wolf 
Assistant Sports Editor 

now as Bears' fans. I don't·really mind, though, because they give me a break from driving the pro wrestling bandwagon. I have some buddies who've been driving the Anti-Apartheid bandwagon, lately, and they sure are busy. 
None of those groups bother me too much, however; I've got other things on my mind. 
One group I've been seeing a lot ofin the past couple of years is the "let's get rid ofthe football coach" gang. Don't get me wrong, now; I've been here a long time, and I've seen a lot of coaches come and lot of coaches go. The crowd that rides the coach-lynching bandwagon usually is very vocal but very harmless. They talk a lot, but they do about as much good as the guys who jump on the "attack The Observer, student government and the dining halls" bandwagon. 
For some reason, though, I'm getting kind of worried about the crowd this year. 
I mean, there are justthousands ofpeople scrambling for a ride on my bus, now. I usually try to stay pretty neutral and not get too excited about my work, but it's not easy in this case, and I'll tell you why. 
With all ofthe people overflowing from the "let's get rid ofthe football coach" bandwagon, there are a lot ofpeople who have decided to jumpon the "let's give up hope on the football team" bandwagon. I may be an objective bandwagon driver, but I'm also a Notre Dame fan. 
I get cynical sometimes, too, but I still don't think it's time to give up on the players. Sure, they may have lost a few games, but that doesn't mean they're going to quit trying. That is, if they still feel the support of the students behind them. The worst thing that could happen now is if everybody jumps offthe team supporters' wagon. 
I'm not saying we have to love 'em to death, but if we want to turn this season around, we've got to make sure we're all on the right wagon. We've got to finish the season with the same coach, and we've got to finish the season with the same players. So it seems to me that everybody could just jump back on the Notre Dame bandwagon. That ought to do some good. 
It's going to be hard at first. It always is tough for the first few people who climb aboard. It really gets pretty lonely. But the whole fun about the bandwagon is how the crowd grows so quickly. And then the guys who were on it first canall stand up and say, "Yeah, I knew it all along. You guys were bound to end up riding eventually, but we were here first. So there." 
What I'm looking for right now are a few brave volun· teers to jump on the wagon and lead the crowd in the right direction. We need people who aren't afraid to stand up and yell and scream and jump around and act crazy all in support ofthe Notre Dame football team. 
Then, when the Irish wind up 8·3, and there's no vacancy on the "I love Notre Dame" bandwagon, they can all say, "Yeah, we were here first." 
But ofcourse, I've been on the bandwagon all along. 
So there. · 





