
Hypnotist, page 6 

VOLXX,N0.5 FRIDAY, AUGUST 30, 1985 

At least 16 are killed in South African rioting 

nalists from the area Thursday mor­
ning, after announcing that two 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa · more blacks had been shot dead At least 16 people were reported there. killed throughout South Africa since A 3-year-old boy burned to death Wednesday, when riot police · when a gasoline bomb was heaved charged with whips, clubs and tear into his home, the South African gas into an interracial crowd of Broadcasting Corporation reported. protestors trying to march to the That brought the number of vic­prison where black leader Nelson tims in the Cape Town area to at Mendela is serving a life term. least 13 for the two days of riots, 
Rioting swept through Cape most ofthem killed by police. Nearly Town's black and mixed-race 650 people have been killed in a townships yesterday and police in year of rage against white rule, armored cars battled mobs and nearly all of them black. stormed a school. More than 60 people, including 
Most of the killing occurred 12 policemen, were wounded in the around Cape Town, where the violence that gripped this southwes­march to Pollsmoor prison was tern port area after police thwarted planned. the planned marches. Blacks, 
Police sealed off the largest black coloreds and several thousand white township. Witnesses said others be· University of Cape Town students sieged at least three mixed-race were among those demanding the schools and stormed a third, smash· release of Mandela, who has been in ing windows as children ran shriek· prison since 1964 after being con­ing from tty: building. victed ofplotting sabotage. 
Riot squads in armored vehicles Charles Redman, the deputy State raced around Cape Town's sprawl-Department spokesman, said in Was­ing "colored", or mixed race, hington that Wednesday's events townships of Bellville South, "indicated how quickly confronta· Mitchells Plains and Mannenberg, tion between pollee and throwing tear gas and firing rubber demonstrators can lead to brutality bullets. Gangs of youths responded and bloodshed. We appeal to all with rocks, put up makeshift road sides to avoid such confrontations. blocks and burned tires in the We also reiterate our call to the streets. South African government to ensure 
About 100 students gathered at that its police force respects the the overwhelmingly white Univer­rights of all South Africans." sity ofCape Town campus to protest In Johannesburg's Soweto the apartheid system that denies township, police opened fire on a rights to the black majority. At crowd stoning a bus and a private nightfall, police hurled 1 5 tear gas car, killing one black and seriously t·anisters onto the campus and wounding another, police reported. moved into the leafy grounds be­They said two blacks were killed in hind two armored-personnel car­disturbances at Paarl, 25 miles from riers to disperse the demonstrators. Cape Town, and at KwaThema, east About 40 of the students were ofJohannesburg. white. Police invaded a black high school 
Guguletu, Cape Town's biggest in Soweto where they suspected an black township, was sealed off for a 
see RIOTS, page 3 second day. Police barred jour­

Matwiy's resignation creates two new jobs 
By MIRIAM HILL CopyEdtto,. This year, Adele Lanan will act as assistant director of media and 
Two people will do the job of programming. She works with former Assistant Director of Stu· student publications and the FM dent Activities Paul Matwiy who and AM radio stations and acts as said he left the job last May for advisor to the SAB. Lanan for· economic reasons. merly worked in the sociology 
Matwiy acted as assistant to department. Director of Student Activities Ceil Paulsen filled the newly Joni Neal from August 1984 to created position of assistant May 198~. When he took the job, direcror for facilities and Matwiy said, he did not make programming. She works closely plan.~ to stay for longer than the with the managers of the Alumni­I 0-month period. Senior Club and is in charge of 
"It was basically an economic managing Stepan Center. Before decision. It was a 10-month job coming to Notre Dame, Paulsen and for the amount ofwork, I just was the auction coordinator at decided not to reapply,"he said. Channel 34. 
As assistant director, Matwly Neal said the Board ofTrustees acted as advisor to the Student decided to create the facilities Activities Board, organized con­and programming position be· t·erts and special events, and cause "two people could not worked with student publica­handle it (the Office of Student tions and radio stations. He also Activities) and do it well." scheduled events at Stepan "Paul's position as it was last Center and was involved in the year doesn't even exist plan.~ for the renovation of anymore," she said. LaFortune. Paulsen and Lanan will assist 
Matwiy currently does con­Neal in planning a series of non· sulting work for a local audio and alcoholic events to take place on computer store and for area radio Saturday nights this semester. 
I fir Lll
-

Police wielding bull whips move on a crowd outside the Athlone football stadium In Cape 
Al'l'lloco 

Town, South Africa on Wednesday. See story at left. 
Corby's and Nickie's are closed, Bridget's faces uncertain future 
By MARY HEILMANN fraudulent IDs and the high noise AsststantNews Edttor level." Corby's 
The South Bend bar scene began According to Williams, Corby's to dry up over the summer, as two will probably remain closed since popular bars in the Five Points area the Indiana state excise board or­closed and another faces the pos­dered the bar to cease operation. sibility ofclosure. "The situation with Corby's is 
Corby Tavern, 1026 Corby Blvd., more permanent than Nickle's be· and Nickie's, 928 North Eddy St., cause Corby's was closed by the were closed as a result ofinfractions state. The state excise police are the of the Indiana state liquor laws. ones that conduct raids · unknown 
Another Five Points bar, Bridget even to us unless they require our McGuire's Filling Station, 1025 assistance -to check IDs. They are close. He closed the place himself, but I would imagine it will reopen sometime during football season." 
The owners of both Corby's and Nickle's could not be reached for comment last night. Bridget McGuire's FilU.ng S1ation 
Commenting on the possibility that Bridget's might be forced to close, manager Theresa Bower said, "As far as we know, everything's fine. It's just taking a long time to litigate this. We don't expect to lose our li· quor license, as this is the first inci· dent in the twelve years we've been here. We'U probably just be fined." 
To avoid another such incident, Bower stressed, the security at Bridget's will be augmented with uniformed South Bend police of· fleers who will check the IDs of every person entering the bar. 
"The problem in April," Bower recalled, "occurred during An Tos­tal, afteJ: Corby's closed one night. 
see BARS, pqe 4 

South Bend Ave., is presently open but is involved in litigation concern· ing an underage drinking incident last April. 
"Nickle's and Corby's have both been cited on several occasions," said Lt. Norval Williams of the east sector substation of the South Bend Police Department. "There were al· ways crowds of people standing outside with people going inside and bringing drinks back out to them, not to mention the usual the ones with the power to suspend liquor licenses." 
Williams added that he would be "very surprised" if Corby's were to reopen. Niclde's 
The closing of Nickle's is some­what less serious, Williams remarked, since the state merely fined them and suspended their li· 
· quor license for a certain period of time. "The state didn't order Nickle's to 
Nickle's, .a popular five points bar, bas been  Bridget's faces  the posstbtllty of closure.  Story  
closed as a result ofInfractions ofthe Indiana state  above.  
liquor laws. Corby Tavern bas also closed, and  


~ 
I 
I 
~ 
r 
1 
The Obserwr 

Of Interest 
Men needed! The Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Collegiate Choir needs male voices. Tenors and basses ace especially needed to fill several openin~. Ifyou cancarrya tune, enjoy singing, and could use one credit, you're in luck. The choir meets Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdaysfrom 6 to 7p.m. in room 114, Moreau Hall. Interested? Call Nancy Menk, director, at 284-4634, or just come to one of the rehearsal dates. -The Observer 
An ND Beach Dance? Relive the summer at the Beach Party Dance on the Stepan courts tonight from 9 until 1. Thirty tons ofsand will be dumped on the courts, and hot d~ will be provided. The party is sponsored by the Student Activities Board and the classes of 1987 and 1988. Admission is free. · The Observer 
Trips to the malls will be made easier when the: Van Lines shuttle to University Pack Mall and Town and Country Mall begins again this weekend. The bus leaveson the hour from the: main circle starting at 6p.m. Fridays and 4p.m. Saturdays. The cost is 50 cents round trip, which must be paid on boarding the: bus. -Tbe Observer 
Parkingenforcementwill begin in all lots on Mon­day. Student vehicles should be registered andparkedin appropriate student lots. Parking in the: faculty and staff lots is prohibited bet· ween 7a.m. and 3p.m. Student parking around the stadium is from gate: 14 south and east to gate: 5. · Tbe Observer 
Seven membersof the Holy Cross community will be taking their final vows in a ceremony Saturday at 2:30p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. The seven are: E. Michael Alcoser, Richard Chase, David Garrick, Edward Kaufman, Francis Murphy, Thomas Streit, and Mark Thesing. Four of the seven, Kaufman, Murphy, Streit and Thesing, will also be ordained to the order ofdeacon this Sunday, at 12p.m. in the chapel of Moreau Seminary. Receptions will follow both ceremonies. · The Observer 
The dedication ofan 11 foot b~nze crucifix 
crafted by Father James Flanigan, art professor at Notre Dame, will be dedicated at Saint ThomasApostle Church in Elkhart onSaturday. Tbe dedication will t2kc: place during a 5p.m. Mass celebrated by Bishop John D'Arcy of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese. The statue was displayed in the: Snitc: Museum before being installed last fall in the Elkhart church. ·The Observer 
Canoe races, food, kayak demonstrations and music will be included at the SaintJoseph Lake Beach Party this Saturday. A biathlon will begin at 1 0:30a.m., and sailing and crewclub members will beon hand duringthe dayfor rides and information. The event is sponsored by the NVA, who will also handle: biathlon signups. Rain date is Sunday, Sept. 1. · The Observer 
BishopJohn D'Arcyofficially began his duties as the new bishop of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese with an installa­tion ceremony in Fort Wayne on May 1. He replaced Bishop William McManus, who retired after holding the position for nine: years. The last position which D' Arcy, 52, held was auxiliary bishop ofthe Bos­ton Archdiocese. According to the Indianapolis Star, the position which D' Arcy no~ holds is considered important because the diocese includes both the conservative communitiesofHuntington­Fort Wayne and the more liberal South Bend area.· Tbe Observer 

Weather 

Not quite perfect beach weather 
to enjoy the 30 tons of sand to be dumped on Stepan courts for the party tonight with tem­peratures from 55 to 60. This afternoon should be mostly cloudy with a high of 75. Tomorrow will be mostly sunny and mild with a high of75 to 80. The rest ofthe weekend should be partly sunny and mild with highs of75 to 80 and lows 

55to60. ·AP 

--~ 
Friday, August 30, 1985 -page 2 



Tradition of construction continues at Notre Dame 
In the 1840s, Father Edward Sorin began a project 
which is obviously still under way. 
When he began building the University of Notre 
Dame he could not have imagined some of the con­
struction and renovation that is going on today. Things 
from new windows on old dorms to a brand new 
Olympic-sized swimming pool have been projects in 
the last year. • • 
Most of the work is good for the University by either 
providing new facilities or making old ones more 
useable. However, the users of this campus often com­
plain about the inconveniences associated with the 
growth and expansion ofNotre Dame. 
Father Sorin had his share of inconveniences in the 
construction of the University. In 1879 a major fire 
destroyed five buildin~ on the campus including the 
administration building. Although his life's work was 
destroyed he stood firm and made the decision to 
rebuild. 

Expansion and remodel­
ing continue today. 

The women of Farley and Breen-Phillips returned this year to freshly dormitories. The process eluded freshly painted ""r""-~./ refinished walls, new dows, new carpeting in hallways and a clean overall appearance. 
While there are few com­plaints about what has been done, there ace more gripes \'l!I~..U about what cannot be done. In order to protect the costly repairs, tacks and naiis can only be stuck in the molding near the ceiling, making it more difficult to hang decorations. 
It is really a small price to pay for the sut•stantial provements. 
On the South Quad the partial skeleton of the new addition to the Law School staiRds between the en­gineering building and the rest of the Law School. Last year a memo was circulated warning of the annoyance of construction over the next year or so, causing one professor to quip, "So, should I postpone my classes un­til1987?" 
This construction site is not only a nuisance to law students and faculty, but to anyone passing by. You can no longer cut through Fitzpatrick Hall, because one entrance is blocked by the Law School's eastern expan­sion. The parking lot near the post office has been turned into a fenced-off storage area Inside the fence are a handful ofhandicapped-onlyparking spaces. Some speculate that these ace legally used by some ofEllerbe Construction's lesser skilled employees, but more likely it is just another inconvenience to the hand­icapped. 

John Men nell 
Production Manager 
In another construction site, a fence has been put around the Fieldhouse Mall in preparation for construc­tion on the half-a-million dollar memorial to Notre Dame alumni who died in World War II. A disgruntled Breen-Phillips senior said, "We'll have to walk so much farther." There will likely be more complaints when that modem Stonehenge-like structure is completed. 
Finally, the renovations on LaFortune Student Center 
have The construction (or destruction) did not start over the summer as scheduled, but was delayed until the beginning of the school year. This caused the users of the building to fear 
1......JJ~::::,p::::::::~--:-for their lives as the wreck­1-· ing ball was dropped near the foundation when the: old <Y~~~:::._::!..!.:=::==J;=== pool hall was destroyed. 
\-The result of the con­~;;;.F:===,-;:::::::=:==.!.~\=· struction should be a much­
-needed, much-improved student center. The users of LaFortune will just have to 
patient while the workon the building continues. 
This is by no means acom­plete list of construction for the past, present or future. A new Olympic-sized swim­ming pool will be opening 
soon behind the ACC and landscaping has been com­pleted around the expansion to Galvin Life Science Center. Future plans may include new dormitories or classroom buildings. 
Another complaint with many structures put on this campus is that it is change. Tradition is held very sacred here, and too much change too fast could be as devastat · ing as the fire of 1879. 
There will always be some change here. The students come through and shape the personality of the: campus and then leave to let others fill their places and make their marks. 
In 1844 there were just five buildings on this campus and 25 students. Those numbers have obviously grown along with Father Sorin's dream and with proper care will continue to grow into the future. 
Think Before You Drink Before You Drive 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
IMPORTANT SENIOR PRE-lAW SOCIE1Y MEETING Tuea. Sept. 3, 7:30p.m. Library Aud. SPEAKERS: DEAN WADDICK, DEAN UNK, AND PROF. MARULLO 
"~'\9 (topics Include; lsat, personal statements, applications, etc.) 
.s-'~ 

SPONSORED BY THE ND/SMC PRE-lAWSOCIETY
Ul1llilld
• 

TheNROTCCollegeProgram. $2,000 Expense MoneyAnd ANavyOfficerCommission. 
The two-year NROTC College Program offers you two years of expense money that's worth up to 52,000 plus the challenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During your last two years in college the Navy pays for uniforms, NROTC textbooks, and an allowance of SlOO a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy officer, with important decision-making responsibilities. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
Stop by the ROTC building on the Notre Dame campus, or dial 239-7274/6442 ~nd ask for LT wachtl. 

NavyOfficersGetResponsibilityFast. 


1be Obeftver (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. 1be Obeftveris published by the studentsof the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( I 20 per se· mcstcr) by writing The~. P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
1be ~is a member of The A8eodaled PreM. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Design Editor ................. Maureen Murphy Layout Staff.................................. Vicki Biad SamSiewcn Typesetters ...................................Tom Small Mary Ellen Harrington News Edltor..............................Jane Kravclk Copy Editor .................... Cindy Rauckhorst Sports Copy Editor ................. M2ny Burns VIewpoint Copy Editor ........ Aimee Storin VIewpoint Layout............ Mellssa Warnke Accent Copy Edttor ......................Ed Nolan Accent Layout...................John A. Mennell ND Day Editor.......................... Lynn Suand Ad Destgn................... Mary Carol Creadon Photographer............................. Mary Aynn 

I 



The Department at Communication and Theatre otters t1lms to the public Monday through Friday mghts. Monday, Tuesday, and f r1day films w111 be screened at the Annenberg Aud1tonum. Snite Museum ol Art, Un1vers1ty ol Notre Dame campus. Because ol the increased costs ol film rentals. pnces w111 mcrease moderately for the 1985·86 season: individual admission to a s1ngle film. $3.00. In addition to in· div1dual admission. we also after season tickets: (1) a season ticket good lor any 25 films shown in the Annenberg Auditorium during the Fall 1985 semester 
Monday Night Film Series I and II 
7.00 and 9 00 (or later) Annenberg Aud1tonum, Smte Museum (check mdividual film descriptions tor se· cond screenmg times) 
These tilms span American and world 111m styles. demcnstratmg the full range of c1nematic art Shown in contunction with COTH 140 BaSICS of Film Studies. 
IJ9Q3 J9DOf:l -,.sJels mo:J.. ·xud pueJ8 S9uue:J v!l6 ~ Sll 10 DUI~J9S9P·II9M 'Will IUf!IIIIJQ 'r/ ·uos punot M9U S!4 pue J9410JQ 514 JO dt94 941 411M 1sed s14 pnJISU009J 01 SldW9Ue ·oe1sauwe Je9A·99J41 e ·uo1Ue1s se J911!Jlll 9Su9dsns e se P9ZIIIIIeJJeu S! AI!Uesu! te1uew 9SOliM SJ9AOI passoJO·1e1s se S9ouew J0p9d DUIUUn)S 9~10 !~SU!)I eiSSf!lf!N pue UOIUf!IS Uf!90 A.IJf!H ·uaJptlliO 10 41DU9JIS 941 pue 'AIItenxas p9ZII!POWWOO 'jOIIIUOO ilnwet ·ssaupew o1d9 se P910nJiSU009J 1m4 'f!O!J9W'rJ pue adom3 u9aM 1aq 90f!JJ91UI 941 10 teileJpod tf!IU9Wnuow 5!41 Ul (Sf!l/f!O 'Aif/8 O:JU018 'Uf!W 
will be $40; (2) a season ticket for any 15 films shown in the Annenberg Auditorium during the Fall 1985 semester will be $30. Members of the campus com· munities are invited to attend classroom screenings in the O'Shaughnessy Loft on Wednesday and Thursday. No admission Will be charged for these classroom screenings. (However, faculty members in· tendmg to send a class to a classroom screening are urged to contact the Dept. of Communication and Theatre at least a week in advance of the scheduled screen· ing-x5124-as seating in the Loft is 
Tuesday Night Film Series 
7:30pm 
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum (check mdividual film descriptions for se· cond showings) 
These films are great works of world cinematic art, having withstood the test of time. Some, like My N1ght at Maud's, Big Deal on Madonna Street. and Love in the City have been out ot distribution for many years. Others, like The Third Man. Lawrence of Arabia, and The Big Sleep, are enduring favorites. Shown in conjunc· tion with upper level Communication and Theatre courses. 

AjSn? fil/1) UJ91S9M Uf!OIJ9W'r/ UJ9POW 941 Sj99W eW9UI:J Uf!WJ98 M9N 941 'r/Sn 'SJ9pU9M UIM ·u1w os ~ 'Joto:J (v!l61) 
sexa1 'S!l2d 
911US 'Wd O£:L 9/Z I 
'9100S teolsnw 911!109119 ue pap -pe pue ·pa101SaJ I! pe4 'IUIJd e pa19AOJS1p 119SW!4 101J91!P 941 IIIUn S1f!9A iluew 10j ISO! seM Will a41 ew9U!J 9Saueder IU9ps u1 pa4J1ewun Jauuew e u1 wntilse 9lll 10 
limited) 
The Department of Communication and Theatre strives in all instances to follow the screening schedule published in this calendar. However, circumstances beyond our control sometimes force us to make last minute changes. For instance, prints are sometimes lost in the mail; film laboratories sometimes tail to meet deadlines lor producing prints of a film; and distributors sometimes remove films under litigation from distribution without any advance warning. We hope for your patience in such circumstances: whenever 
Wednesday Night Film Series 
7:00pm O'Shaughnessy Loft 
These films are chosen to facilitate the st~dy of the process of representation in filmic torm: the investment of meanings as a material social process. Shown in con· tunction with COTH 36 0 The Media and Ideology. 
919lldSOWif! p9SOIJ 'fiUip001Q 9lll 911!91091 
S9Df!WI !f!91JnS S9W119WOS '91\ljeJ0/19 
s,esefinU!)I llidap teolfiOfOliJAsd pue eme 
u1 wsluOISS91dX9 uewJ a8 s11e091 ssaupew 
·saAtaswalll sa1ewu! 9liiiO 911!1Jads1ad 
9lll W01J 11ed U! lOllS UMOp~e91Q 01fie11 
s,9JIM S!ll pue eas 1e 91!1 Sill s19qwawa1 
all s~oeqliSeil 41ino1l11 ·911M paz1)euo11 
-nmsu! Sill 1eau aq 01 wntilse 1e1uaw e 
1e uelpojsno 9lll se sa1119s uew PIO U'r/ 
ueder ·esefinUI)I a~nsou1a1 
amos 
II!~ISnw IJI!M IU811S '·UIW 09 'M/9 (9Z61) 
ssaupew 10 aBed 
1101 'wd 00 L S/Z ~ 
possible, we will try to provide advance information about scheduled changes. For information about films and schedule changes, you may also consult the Film Series Hotline, new this year at 239·7167, which will be updated con· tinuously throughout the semester. 
Attendance at the film series is grow· ing, especially on Fridays. For popular titles, it is best to amve 15 minutes early. We attempt, insofar as it is possible, to begin screenings at the scheduled times. 
As always, we welcome any sugges· lions you might have concerning program· 
Thursday Night Film Series 
7:00pm O'Shaughnessy Loft 
Distinguished Japanese films that focus on the relationship between culture and film form comprise this series. (Note that three additional Japanese films are being screened this semester at the Snite.) Shown in conjunction with COTH 320 and MLJ 490. 

·flpawoo lleQMa1JS JISSep 
e s141 a~ew dt9ll 1seo fiu1110ddns papad 
e pue 'will !Set 1a4 u1 'p1eqwo1 9I01e:J 
w1e413 ..dwe:J U01Ie11Uaouo:J.. Aq papealj 
'odejS98 941 OUI~UIMpOOll OiU! SUeldS9lll 
10 pueq e speat (ato1 WIIIISaluunt S!ll u1 
iluuas ~oer ilq pailetd) mpe liSIIOd )e9Jfi 
'1ea1fi 1elll ·ilpawoo ~~etQ 10 A10IIJ181 
9lli OjUI S91118MS 4014M 9J!ieS AIIIM Sllll 
U! 'MeS1eM pa1dnJJO·!ZeN S! DU!119S 9lll 

. 'r/Sn 'liOSi!Qnl iSU13 
'U!W 66 'M/9 (l\76 ~) 
39 Dl ION JO ag Ol 
911US 'Wd o£:L £1l I ·ale11auad1alu1 pue 
mmg and future series. Please submit any suggestions or comments to the Film Series Committee, Dept. of Communication and Theatre, O'Shaughnessy Loft, Universi· ty of Notre Dame. We thank you for your continued interest and your help in making these series the successful campus events that they have become. 
Please note different locations and times for diffrrent series offerings. 
Season tickets may be purchased at the door at the Snite or during business hours from Mary Mitchell, Dept. of Com· munication and Theatre, O'Shaughnessy Loft. 
Friday Night Film Series 
7:30 pm Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum (check individual film descriptions for times of second showings) 

Recent American and foreign films of the international art cinema. Shown in conjunction with upper level Communica· tion and Theatre courses. 
teJifiOtOliJASd aJe A111ea1 pue 'UOIIeUifie WI 'AJOW9W '9WII 'SieUS9l:j liiiM tensn S'r/ 'AIIUnwwoo 1a4 ilq palls1und seM 9l!S liOiliM 101 pue IIMM liuunp Ja!ptos uewJan e liiiM pe!J pe!J p16 alii ll!lll 11e11e J16e11 e JO UO!IOn1jSUOJ91 ~!fOQWAS e se OSte 1nq 'ilpafie11 9lll 101 UOijni11S9J 3!fOQWAS e se eWiliS011H JO JOAII\JnS e 01 fJIO 4JU81:J e ilq juawiledaJ se iltuo IOU 1ueaw 'iSnt pue 
a1101 10 Will .. a11eM Mau .. O!laod Sllll 101 I1P81J tenba ai\Jas9p semo pue S!eUS9f:! aoue1:J 's1eusaf:! u1e1'r/ UIW 16 'M/9 (6~61) 
JnDWV UDW 2W!~SDI!H 
91!US 'wd 00 6 pue 00 L Gill 

mowv uow eW!IfSOJ!H 
al!US oo:5 ·oo:L 





Jaqwa~aa 



November 


7:30, 9:45 Snite We of the Never Never 
81 I 9
I 5 I I 6 I 
71
!J 
~ 
7:00 Snite 7:30 Snite 
7:00 Loft 7:30, 9:30 Snite

Touch of Evil The Front 
NO FILM 

Stray Dog I Bob le Flambeur
I I I 
9:00 Snite 39 Steps 
10 I !11 I 114 I 115 I
~I
~ 

7:00 Snite 42nd Street 
7:00 Loft

7:30, 9:45 Snite 7:00 Loft 7:30, 9:30 Snite
Every Revolution is a

Chariots of Fire There Was aFather
I I Confidentially Yours
9:00 Snite I I Roll of the Dice Foreign Correspondent 
I 
19

17 I 118 I 
22 I 123 
7:00 Sn1te Tokyo Story 
20 
7:00 Loft 

7:30,9:30 Snite Love in the City NO FILM I Sisters of the Gion I First Name: Carmen 
7:30 Snite 

9:30 Snite Last Year at Marienbad 
I 30 

7:00, 9:00 Snite 7:30 Snite 
. . . . . . .
I

Viridiana rriage of Maria Braun • • • • • • • hanksgivi gVacation 
bJ L r ~ ~ 
11/1 7:30 and 9 45 pm, Snite 
We of the Never Never 
(1983) Color, 132 min. 
Igor Auzins. Australia 
From the memoirs of Australian pioneer Jeanne Gunn comes th1s breathtaking and exciting film portrayal (reminiscent of My Brilliant Career) of her dramatic struggles as a lone woman against the Australian Never Never and the men who lived there as she fought for respect and the rights of the aborgines. 
11/4 7 00 pm, Snite Touch of Evil (1959) B/W, 108 min. Orson Welles. 1958 
Grand Prix winner at Cannes, Evil is in some respects more spectacular than Citizen Kane in its film noir decadence. Charleton Heston and Janet Leigh play a newlywed couple who wander into a seedy Mexican border town and fall under the spell of corrupt sheriff Hank Quinlan, one of Welles' biggest characterizations in every respect. With Marlene Dietrich and Mercedes MacCambridge. 
11/4 9:00 pm, Snite The 39 Steps (1935) B/W, 86 min. 
Alfred Hitchcock, Great Britain 
Dream logic structures the plot of this suspense-thriller in which Robert Donat finds himself pursued as a murderer and handcuffed to a woman who threatens to denounce him as he follows a single clue from England to Scotland in search of a man missing part of his finger. One of Hit­chcock's most humorous adventure films. With Madeleine Carroll. 
11/5 7:30pm. Snite The Front (1976) Color. 94 min. Martin Rill, USA 
Woody Allen and Zero Mastel star in this comic and poignant film about a neb­bish who agrees to become a front for some blacklisted Hollywood writers during the McCarthy blacklist era. The director. producers. and most of the actors in the cast were. in fact, on the dread blacklist that has colored their lives ever since. 
11/7 7:00 pm, Loft Stray Dog (1949) B/W. 122 min. 
Akira Kurosawa, Japan 
In a fascinatingly detailed portrait of postwar Tokyo, a young detective (Tashiro Mifune) desperately searches the under· world for his stolen revolver. Here Kurosawa highlights the tensions of a demoralized postwar society, in which detective and criminal in the end are reduced to the same level. But by occa· sionally presenting images of love and hope against a scorching background, this film does offer glimmers of optimism. 
11/8 7:30 and 9:30 pm, Snite Bob Le Flambeur (1955) B/W, 100 min. Jean-Pierre Melville, France 
Just recently returned to distribution after years of unavailability, the film played the NY Film Festival to universal praise. This 1955 masterpiece by the French director who most influenced the New Wave presents a gentleman gambler who is looking for one last flamboyant score -the crime of the century. Wry humor, a brilliantly convoluted plot, and the existential plight of the gambler com­bine to create an intensely engaging film. 
11/11 7:00 pm, Snite 42nd Street (1933) B/W, 89 min. 
Busby Berl.eley/Lioyd Bacon. USA 
Exclaiming, "Youth' Beauty' Frankness! You've got so much to give!" impressario Warner Baxter turns Ruby Keeler into an overnight sensation. Toe-tapping Ruby upstages BeBe Daniels, wins Dick Powell's lyrically thumping heart, and leads the cast in such show-stopping numbers as "You're Getting to Be a Habit with Me," and "Shuffle Off to Buffalo." 
11/11 9:00pm, Snite Foreign Correspondent (1940) B/W, 121 min. Alfred Hitchcock, USA 
Joel McCrea, Laraine Day, Herbert Mar­shall, and George Sanders star in this Hitchcock thriller about an American reporter in London who is ensnared in a web of political intrigue after the kidnapp­ing of a politician by a Nazi spy ring. The 
glossy Hollywood production is capped by 
a climactic trans-Atlantic plane crash. 
11/12 7:30 and 9:45pm, Snite Chariots of Fire (1982) Color, 124 min. Directed by Hugh Hudson. Great Britain 
An intense. exhilarating true story about the 1924 Paris Olympics which 1ocuses on two British runners and the totally divergent psychological and emotional reasons compelling them to win. "A film experience. The affirmation of all that's great in the human race" -Arthur Knight, Hollywood Reporter. Winner of four Academy Awards. With Ben Cross, ian Holm, Nicholas Farrell, and Cheryl Camp­bell. 
11/13 7:00 pm, Loft Every Revolution is a Throw of the Dice (1978)Color, 11 min. 
Jean-Marie Straub and Daniele Huillet, France 
A reading of Mallarme's famous poem, "A dice roll will never abolish chance," staged near the Commune memorial at Pere Lachaise cemetery in Paris and spoken by assorted filmmakers and critics, among them co-director Daniele Huillet. 
11/14 7:00 pm, Loft There Was a Father (1942) B/W, 87 min. Yasujiro Ozu, Japan 
A widowed father and school teacher remains devoted to his only son for a 20-year period. Eventually the son grows up, marries the daughter of his father's best friend, and is drafted. When the old man dies, the son returns intending to perpetuate family traditions. Despite being made during the war. Father is virtually free of propaganda. Instead, it is a very sensitive family portrait of the kind for which Ozu is best known. With Chishu Ryu 
11/15 7:30 and. 9:30pm, Snite Confidentially Yours (1983) B/W, 111 mm. Francois Truffaut, France 
Rave reviews greeted Truffaut's last 
and probably greatest film, an affectionate tribute to the screwball comedies of the 1930's and the stylish film noir mysteries of the 1940's. Fanny Ardent is dazzlingly showcased as a secretary with a crush on her boss who sets out to clear him when he is accused of murdering his adulterous wife. 
11/18 7:00 pm, Snite Tokyo Story (1953) B/W, 134 min. 
Yasu1iro Dzu. Japan 
An elderly couple journeys to Tokyo to visit their preoccupied children. Yes, the film is about the universal experience of generational separation. Yes, it's about divisions of traditional and modern culture in Japan. But neither tag fully explains the compassion and cumulative emotional power which have helped make this film Dzu's most famous. With Chishu Ryu. 
11/18 9:30 pm, Snite Last Year AI Marienbad (1961) B/W, 94 min. Alain Resnais, France 
Time, money, reality, and fantasy become inseparable in this mysteriously elegant tale of a man who meets a beautiful woman at a luxurious hotel and tries to convince her that they have met before. Scripted by Alain Robbe-Grillet. 
11/19 7:30 pm, Snite Love in the City (1953) B/W, 86 min. Federico Fellini, Michelangelo Antonioni, 
Sesare Zavattini, eta!. 
This "film journal" depicting five separate episodes of life and love in the city provides a rare opportunity to see vir­tuoso performances by five famous Italian directors on the same subject in one film. This film classic has been out of distribu­tion in 16mm for many years: "Fellini's episode demonstrates his remarkable vir­tuosity ... His peculiar mixture of sym­pathy and wry humor is here . Zavat· tini's "Love of a Mother" reflects, likewise 
. the extraordinary power of compas­sion of such De Sica films (written by Zavattini) as Gold of Naples or The Roof" -NY Herald Tribune. 
11/21 7:00 pm, Loft Sisters of the Gion (1936) B/W, 66 min. Kenji Mizoguchi, Japan 
Mizoguchi's social and feminist obses· sions coalesce in this story of two Geisha sisters. one living by traditional codes of subservience and the other choosing a more modern life-style. With Yoko Umemura and lsuzu Yamada. 
11/22 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Snite First Name: Carmen (1983) Color. 85 min. 
Jean-Luc Godard, France 
Winner of the Grand Prix at Cannes, Godard's most recent release is a sizzling version of the Carmen opera. This time Carmen is a terrorist on the lam and her captor/lover Jose is a punk bank guard. The music is Beethoven, not Bizet, but the images are pure Godard in his most seduc­tive adventure film since Pierro! le fou. 
11/25 7:00 and 9:00 pm, Snite Virtdiana (1961) B/W, 90 min. Lujs Bunuel, Spain 
Viridiana, a novice on the verge of tak­ing her vows, gets a rude and protracted introduction to the unhallowed demands of worldly living. Silvia Pinal stars as the title character. with Fernando Rey as her generous and forlornly fetishistic uncle. Director Luis Bunuel demonstrates, in his own surreal way, that earthiness perhaps has a holiness of its own. 
11/26 7:30 pm, Snite 
The Marriage of Maria Braun (1978) Color. 120 min. 
R.W. Fassbinder, Germany 
The most spectacular product of Fassbinder's career and possibly of the en· tire New German Cinema. Mixing soap opera, sexual politics, offbeat comedy, epic romance. current history, social satire, and period piece into a coherent whole, Fassbinder uses the story of his prodigious heroine (Hanna Schygulla) as a metaphor for the defeat. rise, growing pains, and ultimate fate of postwar Ger­many. Schygulla's remarkably complex performance establishes her as the most exciting new German star since Dietrich. 



October 


61 27  7:30 Snite 7:00 Loft The Big Sleep NO FILM End of Summer 171 7:00 Snite 7·30 SniteAMan Escaped B: 7:00 Loft _?:00 Loft1 0 11Q ea on Coogan's Bluff Htgh and Low1 1Madonna Street 9:00 Snite Taming of the Shrew 15 16 17 f 7:00, 9:00 Snite 7:30 Snite 7:00 Loft 7:00 Loft Psycho Henry V The Bandwagon Enjo 21 23 24 . . . . . . Fall Mid-SemesterI Break 30 31 7:00, 9:15 Snite 7:30 Snite 7:00 Loft Vertigo The Third Man NO FILM Crucified Lovers  7:30, 9:30 Snite Under the Volcano ~ · 7:30, 9;45 Sn1te1 Dtva I ~ 1 1 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 25  

1011 7 30 pm, Snite The Big Sleep (1946) BIW. 114 mm. Howard Hawks. USA Humphrey Bogart stars as Philip Marlowe, Raymond Chandler's Iough. cymcal. but charming private eye Marlowe is assigned to investigate the gambling debts of General Sternwood's younger daughter and is plunged into a world of blackmail. deception. and violence. Lauren Bacall is the general's older daughter and the sparks fly between her and Bog1e in what is a classic duo performance. 1013 7:00 pm, Loft End of Summer (1961) Color, 103 min. Yasu1iro Ozu, Japan In this sad yet occasionally humorous Ozu family melodrama, a family patriarch and semi·retired brewery owner confounds his three daughters by returning to his former mistress. The women's efforts to reform him are halted only when he sui· lers a stroke which eventually proves fatal. While ultimately unhappy, Summer provides a series of vignettes emphasizing the happiness which the experience of love generates even when it seems more foolish than practical.  Devigny's escape from a Nazi prison in Lyon JUSt hours before he was to be ex· ecuted. A Man Escaped reconstructs his experience of solitary imprisonment and the infinite preparations tor escape. "The Bresson hero's ascetic, singleminded dedication to escape is almost mystic, and the fortress is as impersonal and isolated a world as Kalka's. The movie was shot at Montluc with fanatic a~thenticity; the photography by Burel is austerely beautiful. The music is Mozart's Mass in C minor. It's a marvelous movie" -Pauline Kael. 10/7 9:00pm, Snite The Taming of the Shrew (1967) Color, cinemascope, 126 min. Franco Zefferelli, USA/Italy Gloriously gaudy, boisterous, busty and bawdy, Shakespeare's most proletarian comedy is lavishly filmed with authentic costumes against the actual Italian locales to which Shakespeare alluded. Not simply a filmed play but a complete cinematic in­terpretation, with none of the comic subplots dropped. Although a chauvinistic tale, Elizabeth Taylor as the shrewish wife often gives better than she gets in the process of being "tamed" by husband Richard Burton.  comes to New York to show city cops a thing or two about tracking down a wanted man. This stylish action film and its good location work later spawned the TV series McCloud (with Dennis Weaver in the Eastwood role). 10/10 7:00pm. Loft High and Low (1963) BIW, 142 min. Akira Kurosawa, Japan Tashiro Mitune plays a wealthy in dustrialist whose lami,y becomes the target of a ruthless kidnapper. Based on a detective novel by Ed McBain, High and Low is an exciting thriller and a brilliant commentary on the injustice that pervades contemporary Japan. 10111 7:30 and 9:45 pm, Snite Diva (1983) Color. 123 min. Jean-Jacques Beiniex, France The best of the new French New Wave, Beiniex delivers a breathtaking array of visual images and pleasing symmetyes in this romantic thriller 1980's style. Ai the heart of Diva is an opera-intoxicated 18-year-old mail carrier who becomes un· wittingly entangled in a web of murder, in­trigue. and passion. His tape recording of  cock was never funnier or more terrify. ing than in this film about voyeurism, iden· titication, and temptat1on. complemented by Bernard Hermann's brilliantly eerie score. 10/15 7 30 pm, Snite Henry V (1946) Color. 137 min. Laurence Olivier. Great Britain Olivier's bnlliant adaptation dissolves from a play·within-a·play -the Globe Theatre to the wide vistas of the bat· tlelield at Agincourt -with the talents of Krascer's magnificent color photography and a superlative cast led by Olivier in the title role. 10/16 7:00pm, Loft The Band Wagon (1953) Color, 111 min. Vincente Minnelli, USA High and popular art are personified in this Hollywood musical by Fred Astaire. who plays a Broadway hoofer, and Cyd Charisse, who plays a classical ballerina. When Cyd and Fred get together onstage and ott. "That's Entertainment." An original Michael Kidd musical ballet number. "A Shine On Your Shoes," and "Dancing in the Dark" highlight this gem of a backstage musical.  10128 700 and 9 t 5 pm, SOlie Vertigo (1958) Color. 126 min. Alfred Hitchcock. USA To say that Vertigo findS Hitchcock at h1s most obsess1ve. h1s most perverse. and h1s sexual best doesn't even begm to convey how very haunting th1s him is. or how bizarre. Nor does 11 convey H1t chcock's pass1onate style and the way he defies logic working in a much riskier manner than usual. James Stewart stars as the hero who must overcome vert1go and his obsession for Kim Novak. An eerie tale of passion. considered one of the great films of all time. 10129 7:30 pm, Snite The Third Man (1949) BIW, t 03 min. Carol Reed, Great Britain The original and uncut version of Man retains its suspense and intrigue, its famous Anton Karas zither theme music, and Alida Valli's lovliness. Set in post· WWII Vienna amid BntishiUSSR occupation and black marketeenng, a naive American writer of western pulp fiction (Joseph Cot ten) ineptly sets out to uncover details of the strange death of his friend, Harry Lime (Orson Welles). and finds evil in the dark Vienna buildings and streets. Screenplay 
the Diva who only performs tor live au·  by Graham Greene.  
1014 7:30 and 9:30 pm, Snite Under the Volcano  1018 7:30 pm, Snite Big Deal on Madonna Street  diences raises questions about art, film­making, and its mass mediation.  10117 Enjo  7:00 pm, Loft  10131  7:00pm, Loft  
(1984) Color. 109 min.  (1958) BIW, 91 min.  (1958) BIW, 102 min.  Crucified Lovers  
John Huston, USA  Mario Monticelli, Italy  10114  7:00 and 9:00 pm, Snite  Kon Ichikawa. Japan  (1959) BIW, 90 min  
Albert Finey's powerful, towering and  Designed as a parody of heist films, this  Psycho  A young, stuttering priest deliberately  KenJi Mizoguchi, Japan 
multishaded performance as a self·  movie has become a famous as a comic  (1960) BIW, 109 min.  burns the famous Kyoto temple Kinkakuli  Based on a 17th century Kabuki drama  
destructive alcoholic highlights Huston's  masterpiece. Vittorio Gassman. Marcello  Alfred Hitchcock, USA  as a reaction to his mother's promiscuity  by Cickamotzu Monzemon, the  
finest film. adapted from Malcolm Lowry's  Mastroianni, and a superb cast of Italian  Temptation proves too much tor Janet  and the world's inherent corruption. Based  Shakespeare of Japan. Lovers tells of a  
complex and evocative novel. Fine perlor·  character actors comprise the motley and  Leigh, who absconds with $40,000 of her  on Yu1io Mishima's celebrated novel, The  shy scrollmaker who tails in love With hiS  
mances also by Jacqueline Bisset and An·  amiable gang whose ambition is to rob a  boss' money. Her existential flight takes  Temple of the Golden Pavilion. which, m  master's wife. The two run away together. 
thony Andrews.  pawn shop.  her down a series of lonely highways to a  turn, was inSpired by an actual event, En  only to be hunted down by the master's  
deserted motel run by Norman Bates (An·  JO builds on flashbacks to pmpmnt how the  retainers. M1zoguch1 shows here two  
10/7 700 pm, Snite A Man Escaped (1956) BIW. 100 mm. Robert Bresson. France Based on resistance leader Andre  1019 700 pm, Loft Coogan's Bluff (1968) Color. 94 min. Don Siegal, USA An Arizona lawman (Clint Eastwood)  thony Perkins), a young man with an usual interest in ornithological taxidermy. In­vestigating her disappearance. lover John Gavin and detective Martin Balsam trace her to the motel, where they discover that b1rds aren't all that Norman stuffs. Hitch  ....  acolyte's obsessions with purity and beau ty prevent him from finding relief in e1ther the temple which he adores or the outside world. The beauty of the temple IS enhanced by cinematographer Miyagawa's deft compositions  lovers drawn together largely by c1r cumstances 1n a world where people are manipulated by 1epress1ve customs. And through the Simple. restrained execution of the film, we see some of Mizoguchi's most tender and loving charactenzat1ons.  


September 

7:00 Snite His Girl Friday 7:30 Snite Ballad of Narayama9:00 Snite Kramer vs. Kramer  NO FilM  I NO FilM  I 7:30, 9:45 Snite Despair  
8 I  I 9 I 110 I  11  12I  ~  114  
7:00, 9:15 Snite 7:30 Snite Citizen Kane Kagemusha  7:00 Loft Stagecoach  NO FilM  7:30, 9:30 Snite ife is a Bed of Roses  
15  16 17 7:00 Sn1te Rules of the Game 7:30 Snite lawrence of Arabia 9:00 Snite A Doll's House  NO FilM  19 7:00Loft Death by Hanging  20 7:30, 9:30 Snite la Balance  21  
22 29  23 24 ___J 7:00 Social Concerns Auditorium 7:30 SniteASense of loss My Night at Maud's 7:00 Snite Hamlet 30 • 7:00 Snite Potemkin/Man with the Movie Camera  25  7:00 Loft Wild Bunch  26 7:00 Loft Kwaidan  27 7:30, 9:30 Snite The Bostonians  28  
9:30 Snlte Macbeth  

9/2 7:00 pm, Snite 
His Girl Friday 
(1939) B/W. 95 min. 
Howard Hawks. USA 
In this zany screwball comedy, Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell toss up a bliz· zard of one-liners as a divorced couple who work as reporters on a quick-breaking story. The real story, however. is whether Russell will re-marry Grant or give up her career to settle down which schnook husband-to-be Ralph Bellamy. 
9/2 9:00 pm, Snite 
Kramer Vs. Kramer 
(1979) Color, 105 min. 
Robert Benton, USA 
Frustrated housewife Meryl Streep bolts from workaholic husband Dustin Hoffmann, forcing him to go it alone with precocious son Justin Henry in Benton's touching domestic drama. 
9/3 7:30 pm. Snite 
Ballad of Narayama 
(1983) Color. 128 mm. 
Sohei Imamura. Japan 
Winner of the Grand Prix at Cannes (1983), Ballad is based on one of the most astonishing Japanese legends, in which the elderly of an impoverished village are abandoned at the age of seven· ty at the top of a mountain to meet the gods of Narayama. Wonderously photographed with a brilliant musical score. Ballad has established Imamura as one of the greatest Japanese directors, whose poetic ability to share the cruelty, the love. the supernatural. and the joy of a distant and primitive past touches everyone. "Four stars. Passionate, bloody, fearsome. A fascinating experience" ­Roger Ebert. 
9/6 7:30 and 9:45 pm. Snite Despair · (1978) Color. 119 min. 
R.W. Fassbinder, Germany 
Like his earlier Lolita. Nabokov's story concerns a mild little man driven to murder by his own delusions. Tom Stop· pard's adaptation (Rosencranz and Guildenstern Are Dead) results in a sly and witty cinematic exploration of Nabokov themes set against Fassbinder's garish and disturbing background of pre-Nazi Ger· many, where Dirk Bogarde plays Hermann. a Russian exile watching his chocolate factory go to ruin in the worldwide depres­sion. "Treacherously fun my .. demented genius ... an insanely brilliant conspiracy of talent" -Roger Ebert. 
9/9 7:00 and 9:15 pm. Snite 
Citizen Kane ­
(1941) B/W, 120 min. 
Orson Welles. USA 
Often called the greatest film. Kane 
marked the awesome debut of Orson 
Welles. who starred. directed, produced and wrote (with Herman Mankiewicz) in this chronicle of an influential but curious· ly unsuccessful newspaper publisher (bas· ed on William Randolph Hearst). Using the identity of "Rosebud" as a structuring principle, Kane uses a series of flashbacks and multiple narrative perspectives to pro­blematize the notion of a coherent and orderly biography. 
9/1 0 7:30 pm. Snite 
Kagemusha 
(1980) Color. 159 min. 
Akira Kurosawa, Japan 

Winner of the 1980 Grand Prix at Can· nes, Kagemusha is an epic tale of survival in 16th century Japan. Breathtaking camerawork is combined with compelling characters to give a sweeping sense of history and humanity. "A triumph of lighting. texture and authentic atmosphere. Kagemusha unfolds as one stunning. stylized image after another" -L.A. 
Times. 
9/11 7:00 pm. Loft 
Stagecoach 
(1939) B/W, 99 min. 
John Ford. USA 

Probably the most celebrated Western of all time, John Ford's Stagecoach is both an action movie with a spectacular Indian attack and gunfight, and a subtly underplayed examination of society and civilization. The stagecoach itself contains a number of social "types" who interact with one another in a microcosm of civilization itself. Among the notable passengers are John· Wayne as a gun· fighter, Claire Trevor as a whore, John Carradine as a gambler. and Thomas Mit· chell (Oscar, Best Supporting Actor) as a drunken doctor. Best Picture of the Year, 
N.Y. Film Critics. 
9/13 7:30 and 9:30 pm, Snite 
life is a Bed of Roses 
(1983) Color. 110 min. Alain Resnais, France 

Resnais' wry comedy on the futility of man's desire for Utopia stars Fanny Ar· dant. Geraldine Chaplin, Ruggero Raimondi. and Vittorio Gassman as a band of characters who attempt to re-experience their birth traumas (and thus begin life anew). setting the stage for flights of im· agination into the past, the present, and into legendary time. Even more witty and imaginative than Man Oncle d'Amerique with its investigation of behavioral psychology. 
9/16 7:00 pm, Snite 
Rules of the Game 
(1939) B/W, 108 min. 
Jean Renoir. France 

With its mixture of farce and bitterness. this satire on upper-class French decadence is now considered to be Renoir's masterpiece. A mixed group of weekend guests assemble at the chateau of a wealthy couple and conduct romantic and social intrigues that are mirrored by a servant subplot and eventually lead to tragedy. · 
9/16 9:00 pm, Snite 
A Doll's House 
(1973) Color. 106 min. Joseph Losey, France/Great Britain 
The postcard Norwegian settings of Ibsen's famous play -sleighs and tranquil snow scenes -make an ironic contrast to the tortured story of Nora, who adores her chauvinistic husband to the point of in­venting a deception to save him. only to have her relatively harmless indiscretion come back to haunt them years later. Jane Fonda is brilliant as the wife who · finally discovers her over-protective hus­band's true character and determines to begin the search for freedom and maturity. 
9/17 7:iU pm. Snite 
Lawrence of Arabia 
(1962) Color. cinemascope, 221 min. 
David Lean. Great Britain 
This epic saga of T.E..Lawrence, directed by David Lean (Passage to India) provided Peter O'Toole with his first impor· tan! film role and brought him considerable fame as the blond·haired, blue-eyed beauty who organized the Turks during WWI. The all-male cast includes Alec Guinness. An· thony Quinn. Jose Ferrer. Claude Rains. Arthur Kennedy, Anthony Asquith, and Omar Sharif. ably supported by the desert sun in Lean's huge but perfectly controlled production. Winner of 7 Oscars. 
9/19 7:00 pm. Loft 
Death By Hanging 
(1968) B/W, 114 min. 
Nagisa Oshima, Japan 
"Have you ever seen an execution?" asks the opening title, and the film pro· ceeds to describe the execution chamber and ceremony in detail, then continues with the execution of a young Korean worker found guilty of raping and strangl· ing two women. The condemned man is hanged according to the rules but refuses to die and must be taken down. He remembers nothing of his crimes. so the officials attempt a re-enactment, a grates· que parody that Oshima fashions into an exhilerating absurdist attack on the Japanese system of justice. Japanese pre· JUdice against Koreans, and capital punish· men! in general. 
9/20 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Snite 
La Balance 
(1983) Color. 102 min. 
Bob Swaim . .France 
This super-successful crime drama stars Richard Berry as a touch cop in· vestigating a series of drug-related murders. To obtain certain information, he 'hits on a feisty hooker (Nathalie Baye) and her boyfriend (Philippe Leotard), involving them in a brutal system of tips and favors 
(Ia balance) that backfires on them all. 
9/23 7:00 pm, Social Concerns Auditorium 
A Sense of Loss 
(1972) Color, 135 min. 
Marcel Ophuls 
Bernadette Devlin, lan Paisley, an IRA provisional. and a British army commander are among those who try to clarify the issues behind the turmoil in Northern Ireland in this documentary that attempts to render politics understandable in human terms and which becomes the setting for a number of very moving personal dramas. "A s·uperb and important film. Loss is the cinematic essay at its very finest. Scrupulously lair, profoundly humanistic, undeflected by rhetoric and propaganda. Ophuls is the Orwell of the cinema" ­
Time. 

9/23 7:00 pm, Snite 
Hamlet 
(1948) B/W, 164 min. 
Laurence Olivier, Great Britain 
The brooding Dane by Olivier is done in 
highly imaginative style (the solliloquies 
are interior monologues photographed 
against rolling clouds and pounding surf) 
with Desmond Dickinson's active camera 
prowling dank corridors and labyrinths and 
even following Ophelia right into the 
stream. To reduce I he film from four and 
one-hall hours to three. judicious cuts 
were effected under the guidance of 
Olivier, one of the greatest Shakespearean 
actor/directors of all time. 
9/24 7:30 pm, Snite 
My Night at Maud's 
(1969) B/W, 105 min. 
Eric Rohmer, France 
Jean-Louis Trintignant plans a young 
Catholic engineer who is emotionally torn 
between two women -a cool, blonde 
student he has watched at church, and 
the enchanting Maude. a Protestant. He 
explains his choice of marriage partner at 
length. but in this delightfully cerebral 
moral tale Rohmer's eye perceives ironies 
that go beyond logic. 
9/25 7:00 pm, Loft 
The Wild Bunch 
(1969) Color, cinemascope. 143 min. 
Sam Peckinpah. USA 
Restored to its orig inaI length and 
shown in its original cinemascope format. 
The Wild Bunch is the riveting story of the 
last of the outlaw gangs who terrorize the 
1913 American frontier, who plan to 
knock off one last bank and then hightail 
it across the border to live like kings the 
rest of their lives. Peckinpah traces the 
gradual rise of a new order on both sides 
of the border as a bloodbath rather than an olderly transition in his typically blunt and brutal fashion. 
9/26 7:00 pm. Loft 
Kwaidan 
(1964) Color. 164 min. Masaki Kobayashi, Japan 

Winner of the International Jury Prize at Cannes. Kwaidan is the most breathtaking­ly beautiful film ever made in Japan. The delicately simple ghost stories have an ex· traordinary sensual qu·ality and reflect the Japanese concern with mythology, legend. and the spirit world. Kobayashi uses ravishing color to convey subtle shifts of mood and to create a stunning visual at· mosphere. 
9/27 7:30 and 9:45 pm. Snite 
The Bostonians 
(1 984) Color. 120 min. James Ivory. Great Britain 

The clash between Victorian ideals and feminist ideology is the focus of this ex­quisite film, based on the classic Henry James novel. The detailed recreation of New England (circa 1875) is remarkable. as are the performances by the all-star cast: Christopher Reeve. Vanessa Redgrave. Madeleine Potter. eta/. "A rare delight. a high comedy with tragic over· tones, acted to passionate perfection one of the finest film adaptations of a ma· JOr literary work ever to come onto the screen" -Vincent Canby. NY Times. 
9/30 7:00 pm, Snite 
Potemkin (1925) B/W, 67 min. Sergei Eisenstein. USSR Man With the Movie Camera (1928) B/W. 69 min. Dziga Vertov, USSR 

Two masterpieces of the Soviet cinema. Based on a true incident during the 1905 revolution in-which mutiny by sailors aboard the battleship Potemkin is sup· ported by the citizens of Odessa, Potemkin serves as the vehicle for Eisenstein's radical cinematic theories: his use of mon­tage, the dialectical synthesis of "conflic· ling" shots. and his treatment of the mass, rather than the individual hero. Camera. a radicalized "city symphony" documentary, takes the camera out of fie· lion and into the streets in order to demonstrate the special and specific reali· ty of cinematic vision. 
9/30 9:30 pm, Snite 
Macbeth (1948) B/W. 88 min. Orson Welles, USA 

Welles' famous experiment at Republic was done using post-synchronized sound, and then edited and re-edited. Welles' Macbeth is memorable, with dramatic set· lings (seemingly carved out of cliffs), Jac· ques lbert's exemplary score, stunning photography by John L. Russell, and Jeanette Nolan as the world's best Lady Macbeth. 
The Observer Friday, August 30, 1985 -page 3 
Subtle form of segregation may be practiced by teachers 
Spedal to The Obeerver 
Remember when your first grade teacher divided the class into the redbirds and the turkeys for reading lessons? 
According to a sociologist at Notre Dame, your teacher may have been practicing a subtle form of segregation. 
Maureen Hallinan, White profes· sor of sociology at the University, said while ability grouping might benefit the brightest students in a classr<x)m, it can also create an atmosphere that discourages inter­racial mixing and provides students in lower groups with inferior in· struction. 
Because In many schools the high achievers are predominantly white students and low achievers black, Hallinan said ability grouping can defeat the purpose of desegregation plans. 
Compiled In collaboration with Aage Sorensen, sociology chairman at Harvard University, the findings result from a two-year study in which Hallinan surveyed 1,478 fourth through seventh grade stu· 
dents in 48 different classrooms of 
J0 schools in northern California. 
Originally intending to con· centrate on the development of children's friendships with their classmates, Hallinan said the schools' racial diversity led her to expand the focus. 
Her data, which attempts to determine if there are differences in the ways that black and white stu­dents choose their respective friends, can be useful in the im· plementation of school desegrega· tionplans. 
The studies reveal that both black and white children look for friends who share basic characteristics such as gender, age, race, socio-economic background and achievement level. However, the organization of their classrooms can also have a great im· pact on the friendship and learning processes. 
Students who were grouped together, especially on the basis of ability, tended to choose friends from within the group, Hallinan said. 
The grouping intensifies the ef· fects of similarity on the develop· ment of friendships and distinguishes one particularly im· portant characteristic. "Children tend not to choose friends who are lower achievers than themselves. Sometimes achievement is looked upon as more important than race," she said. 




Teachers who group students ac­cording to ability, Hallinan said, "are underscoring similarity in achieve· ment by putting these children together at the same achievement level, but setting them apart for everyone else to see." 
In effect, she added, the groupings can create a "partitioned" classroom by promoting friendliness among some students but constraining it among others. 
Considering that only a few black children are likely to be among the high achievers, the groupings can become a subtle form of segrega­tion. 
She also discovered that on an overall basis, black children are more willing to initiate interracial friendships than their white clas­smates. Black children apparently are attracted by what they perceive as a social power associated with white students' higher achievement, she said. Within an ability group, however, the situation changes. 
White children aren't likely to in· itiate interracial friendships without the prodding ofstructured activities such as classroom groupings or ex­tracurricular activities. 
Once the group Is established, however, a white child Is more likely to choose a black friend because of an emphasis on their academic similarities and the opportunity to choose on the basis of individual personalities rather than basic characteristics. 
Conversely, black children place little emphasis on structures such as ability groups and don't necessarily interpret groupings with white children as status equality. 
Within such groups, Hallinan said, black children might need to attain a higher status before friendships with white children in the group could become more commonplace. 
At the same time, children in the lower groups probably receive a poorer education because they begin at a lower level and have less potential to progress. Hallinan said teachers of lower groups are likely to spend more time on administra­tion and discipline, leaving less time for teaching than in high achieve­ment groups. 
If ability groups can be arranged to faithfully mirror the original racial composition of the classroom, Hal­linan said, achievement can be un­derscored without allecting the natural development of same-race and interracial friendships. 
She advises, however, that school officials should begin to realize that simply putting children of different races together in the same clas­sroom is not enough for successful school desegregation. 
"Teachers need to be aware ofthe effects of different pedagogical devices such as ability groups and use them in ways to promote ac· hievement and Interracial Interac­tion. 
It's not sufficient just to put these children together; what's needed Is institutional support. The schools have to make obvious efforts to change status systems in the clas­sroom. They need to enhance the status ofblacks,"she said. 

New series of courses at Saint Mary's concentrate on the history of women 
ByKIMBERLYTRENNER idea in mind, Clark and other mem· SentorStaffReporter bers of the faculty have imple­mented the new program. 
Women will be able to explore "The purpose of the minor is to their history for credit this year at provide a structure in which Saint Mary's by taking classes in the materials by and about women can new women's studies minor. be examined in a concentrated way," said Clark, chairman of the "In a women's college and educa­department. "Students will develop 
tion, a woman should have an understanding of the intellectual, knowledge ofher own history," said social and cultural background of Ann Clark, associate professor of women,"she said. philosophy at Saint Mary's. With this Requirements for the minor con-

STUDENT ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
Tuesday,Sept.3,1985 7:00-10:00p.m. Stepan Center 
Get Involved! Come Find Out About The Various ClubsI Organizations on Campus 

Saint Mary's Activities Night Is Also Sept.3, from 8:00-10:00 p.m. 
sist of a minimum of 14 hours. All five courses have gender as an or­ganizational focus, most often wit-bin a particular disciplinary framework, and are divided into three main categories. 
Category I covers the lives, his­tories and contributions of women. Category II explores images, visions or representations of women, ver­sions of the way women have been seen or understood. 



Riots 
continued/rom page 1 
illegal meeting was being held by the black Congress of South African Students, and arrested eight stu· dents, witnesses said. South Africa's white government banned the or­ganization Wednesday. 
In the Cape Town mixed-race township of Mitchells Plain, attack­ers hurled a hand grenade into the home of Peter Harris, a member of the mixed-race chamber of Parlia­ment. Houses with limited powers were created last year for them and for Asians, and members have been targets ofviolence. 
The city council of Cape Town, which is controlled by white liberals, accused the police of provoking violence. A white mem­ber of the provincial council, John Sonnenberg, said police had whipped demonstrators ''with ob· vious relish" in a "disgraceful display ofbrutality." 
NOWOPENI 

COMIC BOOKS AND BASEBALL CARDS
*ID.llllATm COMICS, PLUS 
TIIUSAIIDS Of BACK-ISSUES
*IASOALL AIID FOGTIAU 
CARDS
*SIPPIIS FOR COMICS 
AIID CAlliS*OfU 11:11-1:11 


MOMDAY-SATIIDAY ALL-STAR COMICS &CARDS 
507 E. McKINLEY AVE. 
MISHAWAKA PHONE 211-4388 

The Observer Friday, August 30, 1985 -page 4 



NE side of South Bend welcomes stu,dents to neighborhood festival 

By DAN McCULLOUGH 
NewsEdttor 
Usually, when students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's get together with the residents from 

I 
South Bend's northeast side neigh­borhood, the atmosphere is more

,t 
hostile than festive. I 
~ 
But things are going to change r next weekend, if the residents and 
~ 
businessmen from the area have

, 
their way. The second annual Northeast

~ 
Neighborhood Fall Festival will be 

r 
I 
, held Sunday, Sept. 8, and Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are being invited to come on over and join in the fun, said Larry Neff, presi­dent of the Shamrock Business As' sociation, at a press conference 
~ Spedal to The Obeener 
Those "killer" bees reported to be in California may not be killers at all, but only victims ofrumors resulting in an undeservedly bad reputation. 
The misleading accounts of the bee colonies could result in undue hysteria and serious damage to the beekeeping industry in the United States, according to Notre Dame biology professor Harald Esch, an entomologist specializing in insect communications. 
Recent reports that bee colonies in California are buzzing with ag­gressive Africanized bees are' ridiculous because the so-called "killers" have never been ob­jectively ident_,ifi~d, Esch said. 
W. German spy scandal scale grows 
BONN, West Germany -Officials yesterday announced the defection of a diplomat from Communist East Germany, while authorities ques­tioned and then released a security official they said was suspected of being a double agent. 
The events were the latest in a spreading spy scandal that has shaken the government of Chancel­lor Helmut Kohl and prompted reor­
ganization  of  West  German  
intelligence.  
Government  sources  identified  

the diplomat as Martin Winkler, former charge d'affaires at the East German Embassy in Buenos Aires, Argentina The sources, insisting on anonymity, said Winkler came to West Germany on Sunday. 


Bars 
continuedfrom page I 
We were simply swamped with people and it was hard to enforce things. It was an unusual situation when we just weren't prepared. The police officers should eliminate the possibility of that ever happening again." 
The Commons 
The Commons has no plans to close irregardless ofthe problems of the other bars, according to its owner. 
Pasquale Anastasio, owner of The Commons on Eddy St., asserted, "I think our reputation speaksfor itself. We never have been, nor are we now, involved in any type of legal problem. We're completely clean." 
Anastasio cited the fact that his bar "relates to a more conservative type of clientele" as the reason he has escaped the problems that hang over the Five Points. 

yesterday. Shamrock is a group of businessmen from the six points area. 
Shamrock is co-sponsoring the event along with the Northeast Neighborhood Center. The festival, whichwill feature games, music, and food, alongwith a beer tent, will take place at the Goodwill Plaza, at the comer of Howard and Eddy streets at the six points. 
Most ofthe proceeds from the fes­tival will benefit the Northeast Neighborhood Center. 
Featured will be a Mexican food booth, with proceeds going to benefit the El Campito Day Care; baked goods, with proceeds going to the Northeast Neighborhood Center; and otherfood and beverage booths. 
On the lighter side, a dunk tank will feature area celebrities, as well as well-known faces from the two campuses. South Bend police chief Charles Hurley will sit in the tank, as will city councilmanjohn Voorde. 
From the Notre Dame com­munity,JeffAnhut, who Is this year's leprechaun mascot, will risk being dunked. Kathy Ravotti, cheerleader co-captain, also ~ s!!._in the tank. 
The Portage Township Fire Department will be on hand with one of their newest fire engines to discuss fire safety. Also, they will bring their special mini-fire house to instruct children on how to escape from burning buildings and other aspects offire safety. 
A special one-day liquor license was secured for the event by Pasquale Anastasio, owner of The Commons tavern. 



Killer bees may really be harmless 
The bees in question allegedly are the descendants of an aggressive African strain that escaped near Sao Paulo, Brazil, in 1957 and mated with bees native to Brazil. 
For years, reports circulated that the highly aggressive descendants were on their way from Brazil to the United States, but Esch said there are many different strains of bees in­habiting Brazil. 
"I doubt that these bees are even from Brazil," Esch said. 
"I've collected samples of bees in Indiana, Michigan, Tennessee and in Brazil. Many of them were classified by University of California resear­chers _!1,5 the sam.e.§!fain," Esch said. 
Even though bees in the United State are specially bred for gentle-

PHOTOGRAPHERS 

The Observer Photo Staff Needs YOU 
*Many paid positions available *B&W darkroom exp. crucial *Own equipment necessary 
Pick up an application and job description at the Observer office, 3rd Door LaFortune 
Cash 
•

tn... 

The Observer needs creative, dedicatedpeople to design ads, so ifyou're interested, call Mary Carol Creadon at 283-3461. 
...onyour artistic talent 


ness, Esch said there is no difference between common European honeybees and the African bees that have gained a reputation for ex­treme aggression. 
He said the so-called "killers" could have been on the loose in this country for years. "There's no real control over what is imported; it is possible for beekeepers to return here with bees in small cagesin their pockets. If they put the bees in a hive, they're going to be released into the environm~nt." 
The biggest problem with reports of"killer" bees, Esch said, is the hy~­teria that can result. The bees are not as dangerous as they are reported to be, and commonsense should be the rule so as not to provoke any bee. 




WANTED BY 
Sacred Heart Parish Men and Women to assist In 
YOUTH MINISTRY 
(I.e. to work with the Parish's professional Youth Minister to develop a program which Includes OPJ?Ortunltles for fun, friendship, and spiritual growth. Previous experience Is not necessary. We will work as a team meeting at convenient times to plan and discuss any problems.) 
Interested persons should call 
Parish HQme  Tim Daugherty: 239•7511 Oeave meuoge and he'll get back to you) 256-7511  
Also needed  

ONE OR TWO JUNIOR HIGH 

ASSISTANT LEADERS 
and 

Last but not least. musicians!!! 
To sing at 9:30 Mass (SATB choir and formal music) Or 10:45, Instrumentalists as well as singers, mostly contemporary music. 
Call Parish offlce,239·7511, tor junior high and music. 
CLASSES 

This week
STARTING 

1 EDUCATIONAL CENTER In New York State Stanley H Kaplan" EducatiOnal Center Lid TEST PREPARATKlN SPECIALISTS SN:E 19-18 CALL DAYS, EVENINGS & WEEKENDS 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. ~72-4135 South Bend, IN 46637 
Canyouaffordto gamble with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,orMCA1? 
Probably not. Great grades 
alone may not be enough to 
impress the grad school of 
your choice. 

Scores play a part. And 
that'~ how Stanley H. Kaplan 
can help. 

The Kaplan course teaches 
test-taking techniques, reviews 
course subjects, and increases 
the odds that you'll do the best 
you cando. 

So if you've been out of 
school for a while and need a 
refresher, or even if you're fresh 
out ofcollege, do what over 1 
million students have done. 
Take Kaplan. Why take ~ 
a chance with your lll§i:!' 
~~ 
SlANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. 
SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219)' 272-4135 

~-----------------------r-------------------~~--~.------------------------------­








~i~~~_()__i_Jl___t_________________
F_ri-day_,A_ug-us-t3-0,_19-85--p-ag-e5 

Peaceful Boesak feared by apartheid government 

In recent months we have witnessed the South African police state coming under siege. The scale of repression has increased dramati­cally. Well over 2,000 opponents ofapartheid have been detained without trial and many hav.e been tortured. More than 600 protesters have been killed by the edgy, trigger-happy police and military. There has been a sys­tematic rounding up of black leadership in a desperate attempt to crush political opposi­tion to the country's new apartheid constitu­tion. 
Peter Walshe 
guest column 
Three articulate churchmen have been at the forefront of this anti-apartheid struggle: Bishop Desmod Tutu (Nobel Peace Prize, 1985), Father Beyers Naude (General Secretary of the South African Council of Churches and Honorary Doctorate, Univer­sity of Notre Dame, 1985) and Father Allan Boesak (President of the World Alliance of Reformed Churches, guest lecturer at Notre Dame, 1981 ). Three days ago the regime struck at Boesak, South Africa's leading theologian, detaining him as he prepared to lead a massive nonviolent protest-a march to Pollsmoor Prison in Cape Townwhere Nelson Mandela, a leader of the outlawed African Na­tional Congress is In the 21st year of his life sentence for treason against apartheid. The South African government knows that Boesak symbolizes a prophetic Christian stance against apartheid and wants him out of the way. 
Who is Boesak, this charismatic and prop­hetic figure? He was born in 1946, a "Coloured" South African, a person of mixed ethnic background. A member of the Afrikaner dominated, segregated Dutch Reformed Church, he entered the ministry in Its "Coloured" Mission Church andwent on to complete his doctoral studies at the Theologi­cal Academy of Kampen In the Netherlands. En route to that doctorate he spent time In the United States at Union Theological. His publications include "Farewell to Innocence. A Socio-ethlcal Study on Black Theology and Power;" "The Finger ofGod. Sermons on Faith and Responsibility;" and "Black and Reformed. Apartheid, Uberation and the Cal­vinist Tradition." 
Since 1976 Boesak has been student chaplain at the Universityofthe Western Cape (a segregated, "Coloured" Institution). Boesak has been in the forefront of the struggle to desegregate the white Dutch Reformed Church (the church of the apar-



Saying goodbye is an important part of college 
Two weeks ago Tumbles died. Tu111bles has been my dog since I was five years old; we grew up together and we were pals. Fifteen years together is a long time, and it was very hard to saygoodbye.lt made me think ofmany other times I have had to say goodbye. As I carried his trembling little body to the animal hospital that Sunday, I knew It was for the last time ... and I knew It was time to say goodbye. I thought about how many times in other situations my refusal to say goodbye has dragged things out painfully. 
Heidi Cerneka 
simply said 
Most of us are lucky that we have oppor­tunities to say goodbye. If at no other time, in coming to college, we had to say goodbye to family and friends. This Is a hard but very Im­portant lesson to learn. Saying goodbye is of­ten not permanent, but the important lesson we learn Is letting go. As we leave for college each year we let go once again of the friends from home. Hopefully, we know that we have had good times together and will see each ot-

Doonesbury 
her again, but that goodbye is still very dif­ficult. 
Saying goodbye is hard but often necessary and letting go Is not always just in relation­ships. We need to learn to let go ofsituations, places and bad memories. And finally, we need to be able to say, "It hurts to let go, but I am okay," or "I am not okay." It still hurts to think that the next time I go home, my pal wiU not greet me at the door orsit on my lap while we watch television together. I know, however, that Tumbles was In a lot ofpain and that knowledge put me in a lot of pain. It was time to let go. I am very thankful for his fifteen years of companionship and devotion and I wish it could have continued ... but it could not. Often we feel foolish when we are sad over goodbyes. As I cried all the way home from the animal hospital, I felt really stupid crying over a dog. When I got home, however, I found out I was not the only person hurting. In allowing myself to show my hurt, I was able to share it. Saying goodbye and letting go is not easy, but the feeling ofloneliness or anger is important to acknowledge. Often goodbyes are a sad topic of discussion, but homesick­ness and the missing ofold friends from home makes it an appropriate topic for an early 


'IOU KNOW, Mll<t, FINI5HIN6 


ON TH8 ON&HANCJ, I caJfl)
MY 511fT& Pf/75 Me AT50Mc­

~AY PUT, PRE5CR.VIN6 MY
7HIN6 OfA CARl£R.. 0<055­

REGIONAL AU7HtNTIC/TY.. 
\ r­

theid establishment), and in 1982 he was elected president of the World Alliance of Reformed Churches. The same World Al­liance Conference in Ottawa expelled the white South African Dutch Reformed Church for heresy -for its persistent commitment to segregation and apartheid. 
Uke Tutu, Boesak is a patron and founder of the non-racial United Democratic Front, a massive alliance of organizations which has opposed the new apartheid constitution. The Front has consistently called for a National Convention in which the existing regime would sit down with legitimate black leaders to negotiate a new non-racial, democratic constitution for the country. The alternative, Boesak correctly points out, is the continued drift into the brutalities ofcivil war. 
Speaking two years ago at the national launching of the United Democratic Front in Cape Town, Boesak called for an "undivided South Africa that shall belong to all its people; an open democracy from which no South African shall be excluded; a society in which the human dignity of all shall be respected. We are here to say that there are rights that are neither conferred by nor derived from the state; you have to go back beyond the dim mist of eternity to understand their origin: they are God-given. And we are not here to beg for those rights; we are here to claim 
school year talk. It is important to feel lonely and sad, but it is just as important to let go and move ahead to meet the whole new world that college or any change has to offer. 
Garry Trudeau 

them." Boesak concluded his address with a moving reference to the great hymn of freedom, "Nkosi Sikilel i Afrika" (God Save Africa): "I know that today we are singing that hymn with tears in our eyes. We are singing it while we are bowed down by the weight of oppression and battered by winds ofInjustice. We are singing it while our elderly languish In resettlement camps, and our children are dying of hunger In the 'homelands.' We are singing It now while we suffer under the brutality of apartheid, and while the blood of our children Is calling to God from the streets of our nation." But, he went on, "we must work for the day when we shall sing It as free black South Africans. We shall sing it when here, in South Africa, whites and blacks wiU have learned to love one another and work together in building a truly good and beautiful land" (A. Boesak, "Black and Reformed," Orbis, New York, 1984, pp. 155-163 ). 
This is the man feared by President Botha and his security forces. This is the man they have thrown into prison. 
Peter Walsbe is a professor ofgovernment and international studies and director of African studies. His publications Include "The Rise of African Nationalism in South Africa" and "Church Venus State in South Africa. 
Heidi Cerneka is a junior ~ligious studies and English writing major at Saint Mary's. She is from Saint Louis, Missouri and is a ~gular Viewpoint columnist. 


Quote of the day 
"He that studies books alone will know how things ought to be; and he who studies men will know how 
theyar~.'' 
Charles Caleb Colton 
( 1780-1832) 
The Lacon 

The Observer Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre D{Jme, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief......... .. .Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager.. . ............ David Stephenitch Managing Editor .................... ........... Amy Stephan Controller... . ......... William J. Highducheck The Observer IS the mdependent newpaper published by the students of the News Editor .. ..............................Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager. .... Jim Hagan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager.. . . . .Mark B. Johnson reflect the policieS of the admin1strat1on of e1ther mstitution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager... . . John A. Men nell accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion Sports Editor.......................... . . ... Jeff Blumb ot a ma,onty ol the Ed1tonal Board. Commentanes, letters and the lns1de Column Accent Editor .. . . . . . . . ...................... Mary Healy 
present the v1ews ol the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members ol the Viewpoint Editor ........... ........................Joe Murphy commun1ty. and the tree expressiOn ol varymg op1n1ons on campus, through letters, Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches IS tiiCOuraged Copy Chief... .. ............................... Frank Lipo Founded November 3, 1966 


Accent 
Hypnotist Accentuates the positive 
Patti Tripathi
features staff writer 
" Relax. Close your eyes. Con­centrate. Now imagine you 
have a tiny capsule in your hand. Lock your hands together in front of you. Now press tightly ... tighter ... tighter. The pressure is building up. The pressure is so great that you have broken the capsule and you can feel the tiny beads inside the 
capsule. These beads are sticky! Your hands are glued together. Pull your hands apart. You can't because the glue is very powerful." 
The winner oflast year's campus entertainer of the year award, James Mapes hypnotized over fifty people in the Washington Hall last W ednes­day night. These people Mapes successfully hypnotized were asked to come up to the stage for what was to be an amazing two and a half hours. 
With the sound ofmusic and touch of Mapes hands, the hyp­notized students fell asleep while standing up. Mapes explained the process and aquainted himself to the audience. While the subjects slept soundiy Mapes explained that 20 minutes ofhypnotic sleep is equivalent to two and a half hours of normal sleep. 
Mapes painted a scene in the minds ofthe hypnotized students. They were told they were on a spaceship on their way to another planet. According to the descrip­tion ofthe travel the astronauts and their chairs shook violently as if the velocity ofthe spaceship created the vibration; the hands and legs of the subjects lifted up as if they were floating in air. 
When the students were told the temperature was very hot or very cold, they acted accordingly to reduce any discomfort. They huddied together to use body heat as a means or they took off articles ofclothing to minimize the warmth. Mapes ordered them to reach out and press a certain colored button and the hypnotized students followed him instantly. 
"Look to your left. There is a large flower. The flower is very funny. It is laughing. Wait! There is a hideous green monster approach­ing to the right." 
When the students were described the characteristics ofthe flower, the hypnotized students pointed and laughed. Instantly their reaction changed when they were told the monster was approaching them. Tears and terror were visible in the eyes ofthe hypnotized stu­dents. Some clung to their chairs for security. 
Mapes set two scenes in time. He described the popular dance ofthe time. He told the students to dance. The students did the twist as if they 
!*****************~ 


Bums Rental : 
... 
* 
2 Cable Foot *: Refrigerator : $45 I School Year :
• 

Delivery and Pickup Available lt
* 
* 


f 323 W. M;,hawaka Ave ~ 
: 259-2833 : 
t .............. ~ 
were in the 40's. One subject, Stu· dent Body President Bill Healy, ran offthe stage and danced in the balcony. Healy ran back on stage and continued to dance while anot­her student could only move his hands and body. "I was a non­believer. But under hypnosis I could not even lift my feet," said freshman Andy Shannon. 
One hypnotized student was asked to pick-up the dollar bills that Mapes threw on to the stage. "lfyou can pick up those bills you can have them,"said Mapes. Each time the student bent lower Mapes said the bills have gotten heavier. The stu­dent was unable to pick-up the dollars bills. 
"Did you want the money," ques­tioned Mapes. "Yes," replied the hypnotized student guiltily. 
"Positive thinking never works for a negative thinker. It makes the person feel guilty," addressed Mapes to the audience. 
One of the most incredible parts ofMapes performance was the regression ofthree students back to the age of 12 and then further back to the age offive. The hypnotized students signed their names at their present age. As they regressed back in age their handwriting, posture, as well as their mannerisms changed drastically. 
"Have you had your birthday yet?" questioned Mapes. ''Yes,"said the five year ·old Maggie. She then described all her friends who were at her party and also her favorite gift. Then Mapes asked the other five year old boy what he enjoyed doing in kindergarten. "Well, you know how you spray paint on a paper... then you fold it over ... it looks like a butterly," he replied. "What do you want to be when you grow up?" asked Mapes. "A cow­boy," was his reply. 
The impressive perroremance Wednesday night dazzled even the sceptics in the Washington Hall. "He was awesome. The best thing was his attitude. He has such a positive attitude," said Bill Healy. By the various incredible illiustra­tions, Mapes displayed that every sense can be affected through hyp­nosis. "Everything is created by imagination," said Mapes. Mapes proved that the mind determines reality. "Hallucination is self­created. We impose what we believe to be reality onto others." 
Mapes related his incredible performance to various situations in life. He used hypnosis to illustrate that people project their own self­image onto others. He wanted you "to screen out everything around you which was negative, identify those things that were positive and amplify them to your best advantage," said Norris Harding. 
Mapes completed his under­graduate degeree in psychology and mastered in theatre in California. He worked as an actor on soap operas and broadway. When Mapes lost a considerable amount of weight through hypnosis, he bc:came interested in this incredible field ofstudy. Self-taught, Mapes has mastered the intricate details of hypnotization. He now owns a clinic in Conneticut. Mapes travels to numerous colleges around the country to give demonstrations in f.typnotization extrodinaire. 
THERE'S STILLrltME TO PREPARE 

CLASSES STARTING This week 1717 E South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 272 ... 135 
~efliiiPUIN 
EDUCAJ10NAL CENTER
'IUT-tnh...Sii* S..,H -=aousTS-.::E c.-lcMa~:N~Cinle:rUd 
• CALL JAMIE AT 283-2043
•.............................:• 
:  ALL THE NEWS  :  
: THAT'S : FIT TO PRINT • : GET THE NY TIMES••  !: • :••  

IHI-fiHIIIHIIIIHI-HIH­

OPENAUDIDONS 
ND-SMC Production ojNPel Coward's 
HAI'FEVEB 

Monday, Sept.2 at The Little -5MC 
I 
Tuuday, Sept. 3 at Memorial Lfbrary-ND Come Prepared With A Non-Memorized Scene From Hay Feuer 
Script. Aoollable In Dept. Ojflce ofSMC 110Moreau 
ForF•rdaerlrifo,...,.o• Call 2......UO 2N-4649 

~HIIIIHIHIIIIIHHHIHHIHIIIIIHIIIIHIIIHIIII.......HI:HHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ 
~.._.......,...----------~--~-­

James Mapes captivates audience with his hypnosis. 
welcomesack 


stuoents 

LETUSSHOW YOU THE WORLD! 

Computerized Airline Reservations Amtrack Umo Tickets to Chicago Tours and Cruises No Charge for Our Services Major Credit Cards Accepted 
Blldln Hall 239-7080 New Dcdo Oftkc 239-6682

~source 
fblprCcnter 
28+%06

..:Travel 
seats are available to students through the LaFortune Center (SAB) Ticket Ofllce. The sale opens on Wednesday, Aug. 28 at 
9:00 a.m. STUDENT ID MUST BE PRESENTED. UMIT 'IWO 
(t) TICKETS/STUDENTS. 
Additional tickets available at 
---------------------~~---­
Friday, August 30, 1985 -page 6-7 



The emerald city-there's no place like home 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
Letters to a lonely God 
Notre Dame surprises me when I catch sight of It from the sky lane of Piedmont as we come In for a ian· ding at 2:30 In the afternoon. It looks surprisingly modest from the air, not even as pretty as the neat fields we've been traveUing over since the plane left Dayton. The thunder that waits to be shaken down over the stadium during the football season doesn't signify Its closeness by as much as a rumble. 
I have to make an act of faith that those modest brown buildings are the facilities of a landmark place as wonderful of the Emerald City of Oz. The doubts are persistent: "Our Lady's school takes itself too seriously. As a·grove ofacademe, Notre Dame doesn't amount to a fleabite on a bear's rump," to.clean up a Down East expression. In an hour, after I have seen the sun reflecting on the lake, and felt the deep peace that makes the trees, sheltering the Grotto as a foreground to Sacred Heart Church, seem like part ofa religious ex­perience, I will be safe again as a true believer. The question Is, as I unbuckle my seat belt, should I want to believe, or does an accep· tance of the Notre Dame myths mean I've been taken in by the great 
deception? 
I spent the summer In one ot the 
busiest neighborhoods ofNew York 
City; and I spent the first week of 
August as the celebrant ofa highly 
romantic wedding in Vienna, 
Austria. Since May, I've ridden to 
the subway stop where Bernhard 
Goetz played the vigilante; and I've 
stood on the spot in an imperial city 
where Mozart finished his 
"Requiem." I love Manhattan in all 
its moods. Maybe it's sad, like a 
dying star; but on Fifth Avenue, 
with money in my pocket, on the 
way to dinner, I AM THE WORLD! 
Vienna was lovely, as though the 
picture books were true, and I felt 
like dancing as though I were Gene 
Kelly as an American in Paris. 
But last night, at dinner, I felt the perfect peace ofbeing at home. There's a real world out there in the suburbs beyond the airpon; it's big, busy, and interesting; and I need wiU leave me reestless. The Empire State Building reminds me, a homesick priest, of the Golden Dome. The Blue Danube may have inspired a waltz; but it doesn't make my hear sing like the sight ofthe St. 
Joe river seen downhill from St. Mary's. ' 
One evening, in Greenwich Village, I was caught in a thun· derstorm. I moved from doorway to awning, from awning to doorway, playing hide-and-seek with the downpours ofrain. I noticed how pretty the buildings were as the waterdrops formed beads oflight on the brick. Whenever the rain stopped to catch Its breath, wetness hung In the air as a shimmer ofthe darkness. The trees seemed fresh and alive and hopeful, free oftheir usual desperation in a struggle for survival. As for Wordsworth on a bridge in London, surprised by the city, free ofsmoke in the early morning, sun as a pan ofdivinity, so, for me, those narrow streets of the Village took on the charm ofa young girl in April picking flowers in a field. The walk home, despite the soaking I got, matched the contentment I feel walking Darby O'Gill II, my cocker spaniel, under the Indiana stars. The evening made me happy with the realization that I would be going back soon to the campus where the miracles oftrans· figuration are not as rare as rainstroms in a dry year when the cisterns are half empty. 
You don't need to ask if the myths are true ifyou're living in a place worthy of the dreams you had while in temporary exile. Are all the stories true that we tell ourselves on alumni weekends? Are we smug and provincial as we pat ourselves on the backs as Catholics who enjoy being Number One? The question seems as useless to me as aguing about the quality ofmy faith in God. God has told me, through the tradi· tions I accept, as much as I need to know to save my soul; or to help others, if they will accept me as a spokesman for the same religious traditions, to save their souls. Maybe somebody else has a better faith or wiser traditions; that's his problem. My faith, for me, is like the rock ofages; his faith, for me, could be like the rolling stone that gathers no moss. Notre Dame is the snug harbor where I've anchored my soul as well as I can. Here, with the help ofGod, I will wait for the sun· set and evening star when all the voyages, except one, are over. The Galilean fisherman will be pleased to find me here, I think, when they finally come to pilot me over the heavy seas, though it sounds risky to say so. Nothing is cenain under the Golden Dome but the bookstore and football. 
Twenty years ago at this time, I came back to this mid-western school, which I loved as a student in the late Fontes, feeling slightly tragic. I was at a turning point, after barely surviving family disasters. I got offthe train from an over-night trip, about as cheerful as a prisoner on the way to the slammer. The beauty ofthe campus left me lonely, like an alien distant from his homeland. The trees and the lawns were the fiefdom ofstrangers; they suffered an overkill ofgreenness like the plushness ofa cemetery. 
Notre Dame could become jour­ney's end, the land ofdeath, if I wasn't careful. Homesickness made me fear the worst. Nobody I wanted to see lived on this campus. The family and friends I missed as though they had burled me were 800 miles away. 
We don't die, though our hearts seem broken. I survived the winter. I kept on surviving winters until I got Into the habit. Now, after twenty years, I have no place else to go that would mean as much. 
For me, Notre Dame could never be a great deception. My conver· sion was gradual; the special grace of this place is like the truth you become aware ofone day at a time as you're growing up. It Is the Emerald City that Is personally mine. In New York, I'm a summer visitor; In Europe, I'm a tourist. Here, I'm on turf that belongs to me as a fatherland. I hope to God It Is a lasting city. I hope that for you, It Is a lasting city· that you will always come back to as a home. It takes a heap oflivin' to make a dorm a home. I hope that your time here will be filled with the pleasures of life. On bittersweet days, remember that nothing In tradition and legend is as wonderful as you are. The ghosts have had their time here. Sorin, Rockne, Dooley, and Leahy will not walk this way again. Now It is your turn. You·are the generation that makes Notre Dame alive in this decade. Ask not what the myths can do for you. Ask what you can do for the myths. 


IMovie,~~ 
•This weekend the Student Activities Board presents "The Big Chlll," the moving drama about a group ofcollege friends who reunite I 0 years after graduation for a funeral. During a weekend at a country cabin, ...._--+------+-------t------+------+-----1
...41 

they discover new things about themselves as they renew old friendships. Tickets are available for $1.50 for the showings at 7, 9 and I I tonight and Saturday night at the Engineering Autiitorium. 
•The sophomore class presents the com· edy "Caddy Shack" at the Engineering Auditorium. Chevy Chase Is absolutely amusing In this funniest ever movie. Tickets are $1 for the 8 and 11 showings Monday night. All are welcome! 

Dance ~~L...-_M_a_ss____
iJ 
•The "Come as your Summerjob" dance will take place at Chatauqua from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Tuesday night. Sponsored by the Sophomore class, this dance will be the perfect opportunity to show your friends what you did this summer. 
Get in on the action! 
Accent department 
is looking for talented, dedicated stu· dents to write feature stories, humor columns, movie and record reviews, and all about what's happening on campus. 
and Is accepting applications for: 
• 
Assistant features editor 

• 
Features copy editor 


Applications are due Sunday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 3rd floor of LaFortune, 239·5303 

Mass at Sacred Hean 
Church this weekend will be: at 5:15p.m. (Saturday night vigil). at9a.m. at 10:30 a.m. at 12:15p.m. 
•This Sunday at 11 a.m. bring your blankets for prayer at the grotto. The sophomore class presents Father Leveille for an afternoon of prayer. In case ofrain the Mass will be held at Keenan Hall . 
..___M_i_s_c_._.....C~. 
•Get 
set tonight for the party ofthe year. It's a Beach Party! Thirty tons ofsand, great food and music will.create the perfect beach party here at Notre Dame. Sponsored by the Student Activities Board, the junior and sophomore class, the party runs from 9 to 11. So come dressed in your favorite beach attire and have a great time, because life's a beach! 

•All 
three upper classes at Notre Dame are going to the Warren Dunes this weekend. Stop up at the class offices for tickets and information about the fun in the sun tomor· row. 




Music 
•Pepsi and Sunshine promotions presents Tina Turner in concen at the ACC on Sunday at 8 p.m. The heat will be on as special guest Glenn Frey opens the concen, which ls pan ofPrivate Dancer Tour '85. A limited number ofseats are still available to students through the Lafonune Center Ticket Office. 
Tina Turner brings her Private Dancer Tour '85 to the Notre Dame ACC Sunday night. 

---~-------..,...-------------~-----------~--~--------------------­
. I

Fnday, August 30, 1985 -page 8 


Sports Briefs 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will be prac­ticing today at 4 ·p.m. on Stepan Fields. Anyone who is interested may attend. For more information, call Karen at 283-1362. -The Obseroer 
The ND Men's Volleyball Club will be 
meeting today at 4 p.m. in the Little Theatre in LaFortune. All return­ing members must attend. -The Obseroer 
The ND men's rowing teamwill meet Saturday 
at 10 a.m. in the New Orleans Room of LaFortune hall. Members should bring a written sheet listing goals. -The Obseroer 
The ND lacrosse team will be meeting and scrim­maging on Sunday at 1 p.m. on Cartier Field. All prospective players should attend. Those unable to make it should contact Coach Rich O'Leary at 2 39-51 08. -The Obseroer 
Women's sports competitions in softball, 
soccer, tennis, golf and running ( 5K)will be part ofRun, Jane, Run, a women-in-sports weekend, which will be held by the YWCA Sept. 13 through Sept. 15. Representatives will distribute information today from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. at the entrance to SAGA at Saint Mary's. Information and entry forms also will be available at the NVA office in the ACC until Sept. 6. -The Obseroer 
An NVA biathlonwill be held Saturday at 10:30 a.m. at St.Joseph Lake. Registration is free but limited to the first 50 entries. The deadline for entries is tomoTTOw at 5 p.m. at the NVA office in the ACC. -The Obseroer 
The ND Water Polo Club will begin practice on Monday. For more information, contact Mike Roberts at 272-3971 or Tom O'Reilly at 283-3588 and lookfor details in Monday's paper.­
The Obseroer 

The ND wrestling team will be meeting on Mon­day at 5:15 p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC. All prospective wrestlers should attend. -The Obseroer 
The ND rugby club will begin practice on Monday. Players should meet behind Stepan Center. No experience is neces­sary -all are welcome. -The Obseroer 
The ND hockeyteamwill give physicals for veteran and prospective players on Tuesday at 9 p.m. in the training room at the ACC. Before taking physicals, all players must pick up a ques­tionairre at the hockey office before 6 p.m. on Tuesday. -The Obser­ver 
A grad-faculty tennis tournamentwill be 
held by NVA. There will be men's and women's singles and mixed doubles divisions. The deadline for entries is Wednesday, Sept. 4 at office C-47. For more information, call239-6100.-The Obseroer 
A scuba-diving course is being offered by NVA. Anyone who is interested should attend an information meeting on Wednesday, Sept. 4 at 6 p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial Building. -The Obseroer 
Aerobics for men and women are being of­
fered by NVA. Classes begin on Wednesday, Sept. 4, and will meet on Mondays and Wednesdays at 4 p.m. arid 5:10p.m. and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4 p.m. There will be a small fee for students, faculty and staff. Anyone who is interested may register in advance at the NVA office or before class in ACC Gym 4. For more information, call NVA at 239-6100.-The Obseroer 
Alight exercise class is being offered by NVAevery Tuesday and Thursday at 5:10p.m. inACC Gym 4, beginning Sept. 5. 
-The Obseroer 
A scramble golf tournament will be held by 
NVA on Sunday, Sept. 15. Students, faculty and staff may register as individuals or pairs. The deadline for submitting S4 greens fees to the NVA office is Sept. 11. -The Obseroer 
Top-seeded Chris Evert Lloyd rambled into 
the third round of the U.S. open Tennis Championships last night, while defending championJohn McEnroe and Wimbledon sensation Boris Becker of West Germany continued their march toward an expected quarterfinal showdown. lloyd, seeking her seventh U.S. open title, demolished Raffaella Reggi of Italy 6-0, 6-3 in a night match. McEnroe, who barely survived the first round, eliminated Martin Wostenholme of Canada 6-0, 7-6, 6-1, while the 17-year-old Becker crushed Huub van Boeckel of the Netherlands 6-3, 6-0, 6-2. One seed tumbled out ofthe chase for the title on this, the third day 
of the S3 million tournament. Greg Holmes, a former NCAA cham­pion, upset No. 12 Johan Kriek 2-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-1. Also ousted was Andrea Jaeger, onced ranked No.2 in the world. Jaeger fell to Kathy Jordan 3-6, 6-2, 6-2. -AP 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Obseroer 
Bosco leads BYUpastBC in Classic 
A88ociated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.j. -Robbie Bosco completed 35 of 53 passes for a career-high 508 yards and Glen Kozlowski caught 10 for 241 as Brig­ham Young opened defense of its 1984 national championship last night by defeating Boston College 28-14 in the third annual Kickoff Classic. 
The victory stretched the nation's longest winning streak to 25 games and got BYU off and winging in the opening game ofthe college football season. 
Bosco and Kozlowski teamed up on four long-range passes to set up BYU's first three touchdowns and then put the game away on a 22-yard touchdown pass with 8:32 left to play. 
It was Bosco's third touchdown pass of the contest. He also flipped a 6-yarder to Mark Bellini to start the scoring early in the second period and fired a 12-yarder to Bellini late in the third quarter to snap a tie after BYU had blown a 14-0 lead. Bellini caught nine passes for Ill yards. 
Boston College unveiled a new starting quarterback in Shawn Hal­loran, who spent the last two seasons backing up Heisman Trophy winner Doug Flutie. The fourth-year junior got off to a shaky start and finished with 18 completions in 3 7 attempts for 165 yards. He was inter­cepted three times while Bosco had four passes picked off. 
Boston College, 10-2 a year ago and Cotton Bowl champion, scored on a 1-yard run by John Mihalik in the second period and tied the score on Troy Stradford's 5-yard run at 
9:27 of the third quarter. 

But the Cougars had something to prove to a Giants Stadium crowd of 5_1,227 and a television audience in 92 percent of the nation, and Bosco answered the tying touchdown with a 51-yard bomb to Kozlowski at the Eagles' 12-yard line. The next play was his second touchdown pass to Bellini and put BYU ahead to stay. 
Despite last season's champion­ship, BYU was only ranked No. 10 in this year's Associated Press preseason poll. 
The Obserr•er Notre Dame olfiet:. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from 9 a_m. until 4 p.m ... Monday through Friday. The Obsert•er Saint Mary·s office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12::10 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is :1 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or hy maiL Charge is I 0 et·nts per five charac·





Classifieds 
ters erda . 
NOTICES 
PRO-TYPj: Over 15 yrs exp. Specializing in etudent p~ere. reeumee. dillerll­tiona. law ~ere277-5833 
$1Q-$360 Weekly/Up Mai~ng Circularll No boa81/quotu! Sincerely inter811ed rulh aelf-addr8118d envelope: Dept. AM­7CEG. PO Box 830. Woodalock, IL 
60098. 
TYPING AVAILABlE 287-4082 
BASKETS, RUGS AND POTTERY PLUI LOTI OF UIIQUE JEWELRY, CL.OTHU AND .aotc:l. THE IT. FRANCII IHOPPE, .EHIND FA1111A RETREAT CENTER, NDTIIE DAME. 
TYPING CALL CHRII 234-11117 
SAVE $$$ ON YOUR TEXTS!! USED CLASS BOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD. PRESENT THIS AD AND RECEIVE AN EXTAA $5 OFF OF $50 PURCHASE. PANOORA"S BOOKS 937 SO. BEND AVE, 23a-2342. 
Loving mother wil babysit in her home jull north of campue. 277-2484. 
GAY? LESBIAN? OR JUST UBERAL AND OPENMINOEO? If you •e in­tereeted In being a part of AL lERNATIVE liFESTYLES Write to: P.O. Box 57 Notre Dame, IN 46556 


LOST/FOUND 
LOST: L.L.Bean blue boo!< bag from outaide the NO bookltore on 8/27 con­tenia -e black ch-.Ti 35 cal­culator.gokt Croaa pen. brown notebook with oouree schedule and oouree adjust­ment forma, glulee in a black cue,tan Ray Ban case and other articlee. REWARD offered.Call JEFF GRIFFIN 288-5352. 
FOUND: clue ring n-Morriuey-call 3413 to identify 
ORTHODONTIC RETAINER found 8/28 in Admin Bldg. If it fill you it"a you.-. Call Brian 239-5772 to claim. 
REWARD-REWARD-REWARD­LOST AMETHYST and GOLD BEADED BRACELET. VERY VALUABLE!! MEANS A LOT TO ME!II IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL GRETCHEN, AT 3299. 

~F_O_R_R_EN_T~~ 
APARTMENT FOR RENT PERFECT FOR GRAD. STUDENT. 1-1/2 BEDROOM, ALL UTILITIES. STOVE AND REFRIG. FURNISHED. EASY WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. ONE YEAR'S LEASE. NO PETS OR CHILDREN. $275/MONTH. $200 DAMAGE DEPOSIT. REFERENCES AEOUIRED. CALL232-1405 DAYS; 277-. 0151 EVENINGS. 
5-bdnn. houee. half mile from campue. 19095 Cleveland. $160/mo./per8on. Calf Jim 277-2194 or674-6595. 
Private entrance, two room furnilhed. utilitiee paid. Call morninge288-o955. 
Storage. Large barn on Milhawaka Ave. at Ironwood. On bua line. 8 mon. IMN $100.00 mon. 255-9078 
MALE ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE COSTS IN 2-BEOROOM HOUSE, FULlY FURNISHED, IN LEEPER PARK, LESS THAN 2 MILES FROM CAMPUS. $150/MO. CALL STAN 287-4024. 
LArge lleeping room and kitchen privilegee for 2 or 3 atudenta. 50859 U.S. 31 N.. 272-7599. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE APARTMENT WITH THREE FEMALES AT NOTRE DAME APART­MENTS. AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY. FOR MORE INFO CALL MARGARET AT 232-6069 OR 283-4088. 
FEIIIALE ROOIIATEI WANTED AT 
N.D. APTS. PlE.UE CONTACT ANNE AT21004 

~~__W_A_NT_E_D~ 
Need extra caah? Wanted: a reeponaible per.an willing to babysit on weekendl for South Bend reeident. Call Pauy Corcoran at 272-6484. 
COMPUTER RETAIL STORE NEEDS STUDENTS. HOURS FLEXIBLE PART TIME $3.35 HOUR 277-5026 ASK FOR RAY 
Need ride to TERRE HAUTE any weekenda or break. Call Tom x1545 nighll. 

FOR SALE 
1978 Chevy Malibu Cluaic AM/FM, Air. New Tiree. Battery, Muffler $1,600 or offer 277-5833 
3FT WO ROLL UPS. RUST AND GREEN CARPET. CALL2879341. 
LARGE CARPET REMNANT FOR SALE. SOLO INTACT OR CAN BE CUT. EX­CELLENT CONDITION. REASONABLE PRICE. CALL JOE x1544 7-10 PM 
BIG REFRIG. FOR SALE. ASKING $100. CALL ROB AT 3249. OR STOP BY 135 KEENAN. 
Metal booklhelving, 36""x12""x72"' high. 272-6358 or eee at 18408 Douglas Rd. (half mile eut of Credit Union). 

TICKETS 
PLEASE. I REALLY NEED 2-3 TICKETS FOR THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILLING TO PAY ANY$$$$$. PLEASE CALl SCOTT AT 272-9518. 
NEED 4 MICH. ST. TIX 272-2454 
WANTED; 2 TIX FOR U OF M GAME AT ANN ARBOR ROBERT AT 256-9346. 
wiiiiNiircirFiAoe.i:su:·i;iiss:·AFIMv 
NAVYFORMSU. CALL SCOTT 1924. 
Want to exchange GAs. 2 Michigan State or 2 Almy for 2 USC or 2 LSU Call 277­0526 after 6 PM 
DESPERATELY NEED MICHIGAN STATE TIX FOR LITTLE SIS. URGENT! IF I OON"T GET THESE MY PARENTS WILl NEVER FORGIVE ME! TRADE FOR OTHER HOME GAMES OR MANY S$$.CALLJOHN ]1158. 
Help! I delperately need 1 ticket to the MSU game. Money no object. Call Becky at3525. 
NEED 1 MICHIGAN ST. TICKET. WILl PAYS$ OR WILl TRAOEMYARMYANO USC TICKETS. CALL MARNIE 277­7586!! 
NEED 20R4 MICH ST GAs Wll PayS$ Call Jim 283-3527 
I need jull one ticket lor the Michigan State game for my lilt•. Am willing to tr-one of my ticketa for any other game of the eeaon or to pay any amount of S$$$. P'-cal Laura at3141. 
DESPERATELY NEED THAEE TICK­ETS TO THE MICHIGAN STATE GAMEl! 284-4099 


PERSONALS 
HI I"M JAMIE OBRIEN AND I AM IN CHARGE OF DELIVERY OF THE NEW YORK TIMES. IF YOU WOULD UKE TO SUBSCRIBE GIVE ME A CALL283-2043 
lnter811ed in lnter-Vnty Christian Fel­lowlhip? Call Sheila 1985. Kevin 1883 
NOTICE: Jo A. Fitzgibon, formerly of P.E., i1 now a relident of Dillon Hal 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-200 30 daya 1/intereat 11:30-12:30 M-F LaFortune BMement 

ATTENTION TRANSFERS WE NEED YOURNAMESANOPHONENUM8ER8 FOR TAANSFER ACTIVITIES AND ESPECIALLY THE ADOPT-A· TAANSFER PROGRAM. SIGN UP AT ACTIVITIES NIGHT OR STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICES (SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE) 
WE HAVE 411X TO IPRINGITEEN IN INDYIEPT.I••....•.. ...and you don"!! Call 1820 10 -can gloat! 
lhere he ...... floaing hia teelh Nke a bari­ahee 
Girl in P.E. who had 9 guya in her room. -·re caling your mother. 
Attention ND-SMC Social Commi• lioneno PARTYSOUNOS OJ SERVICES returne thie y-to eerve the ND-SMC cornmunitee In any event. The mulic you want to h-. any place, any time. Reuonable rateeavai...,... For more info call283-1 082. 
OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.. 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
a..lcel......'-onefor beginnere & intermediate~; reuonable rate. Call Cel­lian at 239-5899 or 288-4945 
Thank you St. Jude for prayereane-ed. LS 
HEY FRIEND, l"m thinking about you and 
l"m praying for you. Let"e get together. 1 heve gift certificateelelt if you"l drive. -k 

The Observer Friday, August 30, 1985 -page 9 
Football ticket distribution 
semors  juniors  sophomores and  freshmen  
grad students  
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  

Tickets will be distributed each day from 3-8 p.m. at Gate 3 ofthe ACC. Students may present up to four applications and IDs. 

IAITUI &.IAYIEI 

'tl IAIIEL lEIS -•IUD UIIT ...... IS" OLIIILWAIIEE ....... 21" •
2'! 

ICIIUII'I HOT IEEI SUI COUIITIY 
• WATE..EUIIICHIAPPI 

3'!..
a·~Lnll 

MUll lWEI'S '
PEPPEl-SCIIAPPS
IAILIYIIIIII CIUI 





11!! I~!L 

IIMIIIIU 
fo~ 

ILDIHE ' 
YIIU 
Irish add Ramblers to slate to fill Dec. 7 void 
The Notre Dame men's basketball schedule was finalized yesterday when it was announced that a home game with Loyola of Chicago would fill the one remaining date, Dec. 7. That date previously had been filled by UCLA, but the Irish-Bruins con­test was switched to Jan. 18 earlier this week for television after I.SU, originally scheduled to play Notre 
Dame  on  NBC-lV  that  day,  was  
forced  to  cancel  because  of  a  
scheduling conflict.  

Notre Dame was left one game short of the 28-game regular season limit, and had been searching franti­cally for someone to play at a time when most schools already have their schedules finalized. The Ramblers still were shy of 28 games themselves and had Dec. 7 left open on their calendar by design for final exams. 
But when the opportunity to play Notre Dame came, Loyola jumped. The kind of exposure the Ramblers could receive by playing the Irish was exactly what they were looking for after a successful season and a trip to the NCAA Tournament last year. 
Alfredrlck Hughes may not be at Loyola anymore, but Coach Gene Sullivan remains. Sullivan, a Notre Dame graduate, applied for the Notre Dame head coaching job when Digger Phelps got It, and over the years has carried a bad-boy image with him In college basketball circles because of his outspoken nature. 
Generally, the Irish would shy away from playing a team like Loyola because ofSullivan, but Notre Dame didn't have too many more cards In Its hand this late in the scheduling game. 
The last meeting ofthe two teams was In 1979, and Notre Dame holds a 22-1 record In the series, which dates back to 1924. 
The game will be a one-shot deal, with Notre Dame· not having to play a return date in Chicago. 
In another basketball scheduling note, the Feb. 26 home game with DePaul has been moved up one night to ·Feb. 25, also because of television. 
women's independent. "Our vol­leyball and basketball programs are

MCC 
greatly affected by this move.

continued/rom page 12 
Women's tennis isn't affected so and St. Louis who haven't made that much because they don't play a con­kind of commitment to women's ference schedule and so they play a athletics." lot of Big Ten and Mid-American 
teams. It's going to be tough, though, 

The third option which presents on volleyball and women's basket­itself is for Notre Dame to return to ball." the independent status it held until No decision probably will be 1983. However, several problems made until after the MCC holds Its with that system haven't been for-October meetings, when it will give gotten. its situation further consideration. 
"Who are we going to play in Unless a new vote takes place at that 
February if we're an independent?" time, Notre Dame officials will have 
laments DIStanislao. "Last year, we to analyze what appears to be a very 
only had one non-conference game complex dilemma. "It's not that 
during that month and that was be-simple for us," sighs Boulac. 
cause of a previous contractual "Because of the way all this was 
agreement." handled, we're going to have to 
Boulac realizes scheduling would evaluate what we want to do with be a major problem for the Irish as a our women's program." 
-"-Accompanist Needed 

Fox Ballet and Modem, Possibly Jazz 
Classes Held at St. Mary's 

Please Call IfInterested 
lndl Dleckgrcue 
Dance Faculty 
284-4643 284-4640 

Little , • ----·-~·......--......-Flower : : MovteSBori : 

: PRE~SCHQOL ELEMENTARY : • eParent/Chlld eJ{ifldergarten Grades • : eToddler eExtended Day First through Sixth : • ePre-Primary Kindergarten • 
• 15767 Day Rd., Mishawaka 624 N. Notre Dame Ave. • 

: 256-5313 • 
• The only accredited Montessori School In Indiana :
:.............................................. 
• 
r 
The Observer Friday, August 30, 1985-page 10 



Faust pleased with hitting in team's first tuneup 
By LARRY BURKE 
AsslstontSports Editor 

With slightly more than two weeks to go before the season opener against Michigan, Irish coach Gerry Faust put his football team through the first of two preseason scrimmages in Notre Dame Stadium yesterday afternoon. And while Faust felt that the execution left something to be desired at times, he was pleased with the intensity and physical play demonstrated by his squad during the two-hour session. 
"There were some mistakes, but I was pleased with the hitting," noted Faust. "We wanted to play a lot of different people, and also to inter­change different players on the first and second units, and we ac­complished that. We tried working all of our quarterbacks on each of the two offensive units and in dif­ferent situations to see how they 
performed under fire."  
Starter  Steve  Beuerlein,  
rehabilitating  from  off-season  
shoulder surgery,  was  one  of the  

quarterbacks who saw action in the scrimmage. The junior signal-caller performed well, mixinJ the run with 

TerryAndrysiak 

the short pass to drive the first of­fensive unit within field goal range on the first series of plays, and hit­ting sophomore wideout Tim Brown over the middle for a 30-yard completion on his second series before giving way to sophomore backup Terry Andrysiak. 
"I thought Beuerlein played well," said Faust. "We didn't work him too much this time, but he's feeling fine. He'll play more next week." 
The first half of the scrimmage consisted of six series of plays, which Faust divided between Beuer­lein, Andrysiak, sophomore Tom Byrne, and freshman Steve Belles. 
Andrysiak started off shaky, having his first pass deflected at the line of scrimmage and picked off by linebacker Rick DiBernardo. But the sophomore settled down and moved his charges into field goal range on his next try on the strength of a 15-yard rollout completion to tight endJoel Williams. Hal Von Wyl followed with a 52-yard field goal at­tempt that hit the left upright and fell through to open the scoring. On "and also to see how various players his next series, Andrysiak picked up performed in those situations. At 15 yards on a nifty bootleg but saw this point we're concentrating on his unit turn the ball over on downs. testing different people, to see how 
Byrne worked the fifth series, and they respond. Next week we'll con­like Andrysiak, was picked offon his centrate more on Michigan's of­first pass attempt. It was sophomore fensive and defensive styles." 

Belles was the standout in the second half, completing three of four pass attempts to set up a Carney 44-yard field goal in the first two­minute drill. The freshman hit Brown over the middle for 12, found fullback Frank Starns on a screen for seven, then hooked up with tight end Tom Rehder for a 25-yard completion t.o set up Carney's kick. 
Freshman split end Steve Alaniz had two receptions in the second half, the first a leaping catch over the middle on a pass from Byrne and the second a sliding grab on a toss from sophomore Pat Pesavento. 
Classmate Green made the after­
Tim Brown 

noon's final play the most exciting, cornerback Brandy Wells who as he took a handoff from freshman snared Byrne's aerial on the 25-yard QB Mark Graham, exploded over line and returned it for a touch­the middle and outran the secon­down. Freshman tailback Corny dary for a touchdown jaunt that Southall helped Byrne get things covered 55 yards. going on the next series with a 20-EXTRA POINTS -Among those yard jaunt up the middle that set up not dressed for yesterday's John Carney's 52-yard field goal. 
It was Belles and reserve wideout Mike James that provided the most excitement of the firs1 half, however. On his first pass attempt, the freshman quarterback hooked up with frosh flanker Ray Dumas for a 15-yard completion. Belles followed with a pair of 20-yard completions to James, the first a sliding grab over the middle and the second a diving catch on the sideline. On a fourth-and-goal play from the two-yard line, freshman tailback Mark Green found a hole over right tackle and scored the day's first offensive touchdown. 

Hal Von Wyl
In the second half of the scrimmage, Faust concentrated on scrimmage were tailbacks Allen specific game situations, putting Pinkett and D'Juan Francisco, both the offensive and defensive linebackers Mike Larkin, Tony Fur­units through the two-minute drills. janie, and Dave Butler, split ends Al­
"We wanted to work on certain vin Miller and Milt Jackson, and game situations," explained Faust, cornerback Mike Haywood. Faust 

Alumni Senior Club~ 
GRIZZLY NIGHT 
$1.00 Grizzlies 

Shirts, Posten, and other giveaways 
~ ~ 
...HIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHI........HHIIIIIH........IIIMt....IIHHIIHI,_HIIIIIIHtHIIIIII IIHM........IIITIIIIIIIIIHHtiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiNI 
U.S. 31 N 

Juniper  0 f 0 ::I a. Emmons  *  
IronWOOd  

Private Tanning Beds Built-In AM/FM Casseffe Stereo·· "Bring Your Own Casseffe" 
272·9780 

Welcome Back Students MICHIANA'S NEWEST AND LARGEST TANNING SALON 
Student Discounts Available With I.D. 


10 BEDS AVAILABLE 
53203 Emmons Rd. Georgetown Shopping center 


South Bend, ln. 
46637 
Tanning Salon 

rested Pinkett and Larkin as a John Grieb and junior Tom precautionary measure, and said he Freeman. DiBernardo was expected to have most of the others scheduled to work a few plays at back by next week. .. Von Wyl, long snapper, but the senior whose 50-yard punt was the best ef-linebacker was shaken up early and fort of the day, continues to push was on the sidelines for most of the junior Dan Sorensen for the starting afternoon... Southall got in some job... Problems at long snapper con-work returning punts, along with tinue, however, and Faust hopes to Troy Wilson, Pat Cusack, and Tim see some improvement from senior Brown. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
IMPORTANT SENIOR PRE-lAW SOCIETY MEETING Tun. Sept. 3, 7:30p.m. Library Aud. SPEAKERS: DEAN WADDICK, DEAN UNK, AND PROF. MARUllO 
t'~~¢ (topics Include; lsat, personal statements, applications, etc.) #" ~ SPONSOIIEDBYTHEND/SJICPRE-LAWSOCIETY 



Ip----------------·
~..t~2 I

I ~ I
I I
ADEUPIZ lA I 233-3964 I 
II WELCOME BACK SPECIAL: I . $5 buys you I 1 a large pizza with I1 2 items with this ad. I
I 
"We're Talkin' Quality" 1 

I 
1511 Portage Ave 
I 
One block north ol Martin's 



·-----------------· 
USA TODAY 
all semester 

DORM DELIVERY 


call Tim at 283-2163 

Sunshine Prornotio,.. Present 
The Guitar VIrtuoso Is coming to South Bendfl 

Friday, September 6 8:00p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium 
A11 seats reserved $13 .00 
ncketa available at the Century Center Box Office, Night Winds (Niles and Mishawaka), J.R.'s ILa Porte) and SUpersounds (Elkhart). 
...Don't.mlaJhe hoHest 






ACROSS 1 Mild oath 5 Official mark 
10 Pound 14 Office message 15 Song of joy 16 Site of the 
Taj Mahal 17 Term of address 18 Native of 
Muscat 19 --do-well 20 Duty for one 22 Cardgame 24 Pleasant 26 Relative of 1A 27 Cardgame 31 Part of a 
china set 35 Actress Adams 36 Small rodents 38 Southern 
constellation 39 Relative of 1A 40 Accumulated 41 204 42 Article 43 Container ~ 1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 44 Former Korean 
All Rlghls Reserved President 45 Wasp 47 Cardgame 50 Smelly 7 Palestinian 52 Native of 8 Single-celled Belgrade organism 53 Card game 9 Folded like 57 Move unsteadily a tan 61 Roman poet 10 Fruit 62 Loop 11 Ger. river 64 "When I was-" 12 Tract 
65 Glen  13 Sour  
66 Ruthless  21 Thus: Lat.  
67 Make progress  23 Musical dlrec·  
68 First name In  lion: abbr.  
mysteries  25 Presley  
69 Thralls of yore  27 Australian  
70 Sicilian  city  
landmark  28 Pocatello's  
state  
DOWN  29 Saltpeter  
1 Madame Bovary  30 Borne by the  41 Card game  
2 Paraphernalia  wind  43 Ringer  
3 Common Lat.  32 Conceal  46 Head  
verb  33 Archangel  48 Stairway posts  
4 Game played  34 Surfaced  49 To and- 
with blocks  37 Miss Horne  51 Portals  
5 Liquor 6 Beret's cousin  and others 40 Br. card game  53 Dramatic complication  

STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS 


THE BIG CHILL 
Friday and Saturday 
7 ;00, 9 ;00, AND 11:00 

Engineering Auditorium 
Opea24Hoan 

Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane across from Martin's Supennarket 
277-7744 




Zeto 
(hourly). 

•7:30 p.m. -Welcome and Ceremony, ACC. 
Notte Dame 
"Welcome Back" Picnic BBQ Pork Ribs Speidi Chicken BBQChicken 



TV Tonight 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
!O:OOp.m. 
10:30p.m. 
54 State 55 Tablet 56 Part of speech 

ll:OOp.m.
58 Utter 
foolishly 59 Reclined 60 Author Ferber 63 Observe 

16 11 
28 22 18 16 
18 34 22 18 11 18 34 16 11 18 34 
Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center. 

Opening e6 p.m. -Luau, Dining Hall Green, freshmen free; guests, $5.50; children under 12, $3.25 
Dinner Menus 
Saint Mary's 
Batter Fried Fish Patty Melt Cheese Omelet Deep Dish Vegetable Pie 

The Motown Revue 
CBS Special: Puff and the Incredible Mister Nobody 
Webster 
CBS Special Movie: "Rocky" 
Mr. Belvedere 
NBC Pre-Season Football: San Fran­
cisco at Seattle 
Benson 
Washington Week In Review 
22 Eyewitness News 
Newswatch 28 
U.S. Open Tennis Highlights ABC News Nlghtllne Form Comes Out Chaos NewsCenter 16 CBS Late Movie: "Once In Paris" Love Connection Summer Cinema: "U'l Abner" 
Students show ID and receive free med. drink with sandwich purchase. Offer expires 9/8. 

The Observer 

.SUBW~~ 
Sandwiches & Salads 



-----------------------.~------------­
Friday, August 30, 1985 -page 12




S~orts 
New MCC jurisdiction leaves Irish ,,,, holding North Star Conference bag 
By CHUCK FREEBY felt a little uncomfortable about the privileges as in the past, which Sports Writer the relationship of the two leagues. means they could remain an as­Plus, some of the MCC schools who sociate member without placing 
The Midwestern Collegiate Con­were also in the North Star felt they men's basketball under our jurisdic­ference has announced a major didn't have much influence. So tion." change in its composition, and it is a when the MCC decided to bring However, it seems unlikely that development which has put the women in, those schools naturally would happen, as administrators and Notre Dame women's athletic jumped." coaches see more problems than program in "a precarious situation." According to Boulac, Notre Dame benefits from such an arrangement. 
The members of the MCC officials now must ponder three op­"As a conference, it strengthens (formerly the Midwestern City Con­tions which are available to them. the MCC, but it has its ramifica­ference) voted to put women's ath­One of those is to stay with the tions," states Boulac. "Since Oral letics under its jurisdiction North Star Conference and hope to Roberts will be in the MCC (the beginning in the 1986-87 academic add teams. The only teams left in the Titans had become an independent year. At that time, North Star Con­league after the move would be after leaving the ill-fated Oil Country ference members Buder, Detroit, Notre Dame, DePaul, Dayton, Mar­Conference), you have a league Evansville, Loyola, St. Louis and quette (which joined the con­spread out from Detroit to Tulsa. Xavier will leave that league to main­ference last May) and associate That puts a crimp in your travel tain their full membership in the member Valparaiso. budget for conference games." MCC. That option is the most appealing Another fact hindering a move is 
The move puts Notre Dame, cur­one to many Notre Dame people, in­the weak sisters ofthe North Star are rently an associate member of the cluding women's basketball coach most of the teams involved in the MCC, in a position where it must Mary DiStanislao. However, DiS­move to the MCC. decide whether to join the MCC or tanislao is quick to note some addi­"Loyola and Detroit can be com­stay with the NSC, which Notre tions would have to be made. petitive in women's basketball, and Dame helped form two years ago. ''You can't have just a four-team. Loyola and Xavier in volleyball, but 
"We have some decisions to league," says DiStanislao. "But I that's about it," says Boulac. "What 
~ 
make," admits Notre Dame associate don't know what schools we could you're going to have is a high­n... Oboencr/PUe Pho<o 
athletic director Brian Boulac. "It's a attract in this area. I would think we powered team like Oral Roberts The Notre Dame Soccer team will begin its 1985 campaign this situation we feel totally concerns would resist being with Cleveland playing against schools like Butler weekend as the Irish travel to Virginia and George Mason for our conference (North Star). We State or Illinois-Chicago because we games on Sunday and Tuesday. Phil Wolfpreviews the contests in 
see MCC, page 9
have a commitment to schools like have nothingin commonwith them. his story below. 
DePaul, and that we would like to "Plus, we have the natural rivalry 
keep. with DePaul, Dayton and Marquette 
The move was precipitated by which we would like to keep. I can 
Soccer team opens season SundayMCC commissioner Jim Shaffer, who understand why the MCC would has instigated several changes. in his make the move, but it's unfortunate ByPHILWOLF Second-year Irish coach Dennis Grace said he hopes both his new league since taking office. because the North Star was a natural Asststant Sports Editor Grace is the man responsible for and his experienced players will 
"The main reason for the move is league . to have with all Catholic Notre Dame's heavy schedule this play well against the Cavaliers and • we felt it was time to make a com­schools within five hours ofeach ot­The Notre Dame soccer team left year, and he says his team is ready to gain confidence from their perfor­mitment to become a strong her." this morning for Charlottesville, Va., attack it. mance. league," says Shaffer. "This is one Boulac concurs with DiStanislao's to begin the toughest schedule in "I've got a feeling we're going to "Ifwe build confidence and we do more commitment to make towards desire to add teams to the con­the history of Irish soccer. And the be all right," Grace said after what he some things against Virginia," he that goal." ference, but notes Notre Dame can­first game the team plays on Sunday called a good scrimmage last night said, "then we're going to roll. Ifwe 
However, that goal may not be in not make any moves until it sees should be one of the toughest of the on Cartier Field. "I've got a good do well against Virginia, I think we'll the best interest of Notre Dame, and what happens with DePaul and season. feeling about these boys, and, more do well against George Mason. the move is not a popular one with Dayton. However, at this time, it ap­The Irish will face off for the first importantly, they've got a good Notre Dame administrators and pears neither of those schools will time ever against Virginia on Sunday feeling about each other." "We just might be able to surprise coaches. be invited by the MCC to join the and George Mason on Tuesday This year's team has more than them," he said. "I'm sure (Cavalier 
"When we formed the North Star league. before returning to Notre Dame just cohesiveness going for it, head coach Bruce Arena) is worried Conference, we were looking for a The second option available to Tuesday night. however. An incredible degree of about playing well, but he's just conference that would ;illow our Notre Dame is to leave the North Sunday's game against the depth is available for Grace, as six wondering ifhe's going to beat us 4­women's teams to participate at the Star and join the MCC, and Shaffer is Cavaliers is a fitting opening for the talented freshmen have moved into 0or 5-0." Division I level in the Midwest and making every effort to make that 1985 season, since Virginia cur­starting positions. The result is The Irish appeared to be ready for within busing range," says Boulac. happen. rently is ranked third in the nation, plenty of experience on the bench the season after last night's 
"At that time, the MCC was not in­"We certainly want them to stay and the Irish are scheduled to meet and players on the field who have scrimmage, so it just may be that 
terested in making any commitment with us," says Shaffer. "We're ready several top-twenty teams in the had experience playing several posi­they will take an unexpecting Vir­
to women's athletics. I think Shaffer to grant Notre Dame the same course of the season. tions. ginia by surprise. 
Wolverine stripe has kept Irish working hard 


The Michigan game is only 15 days away, but members of the Notre Dame football team have had the game on their minds for months. Sometime last winter, senior Tony Furjanic came up with the idea ofa "Wolverine stripe." 
In simple terms, the Wolverine stripe was a small strip of shaved skin on each player's arm somewhere near the wrist. The purpose ofthe device was to serve as a reminder of the next season, the first game ofwhich, obviously, was Michigan. 
"Every time we were tired or had too much to do and didn't want to go work out, we could just look down and see the stripe," is how Allen Pinkett described its sig­nificance. "It was there to remind us of the national cham­pionship we were going to win, to remind us that we had to go work out." 
Pinkett has a hard time finding his Wolverine stripe these days, as it is barely visible. He doesn't need it anymore, though. No one has to tell him or his teammates what awaits them two weeks from now in Ann Arbor, and no longer is it tough to find the incentive to go work out. 
• 
National media attention this summer may have been focused on the near-Senate campaign of Georgia football coach Vince Dooley, but another college coach a little closer to home had his own taste of a political career. Yes, folks, Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps was asked to run for the U.S. Senate in 1986. 
For Phelps, the request by former U.S. Senator Vance Hartke that he run for the Senate against Indiana incum­bent Dan Quayle was flattering, and, at the same time, an offer he hardly expected. The Irish coach quickly put to rest any rumors that a political career might be on the horizon, though, insisting that he would stick to coaching for now. 
Jeff Blumb 
Sports Editor 


All the "Phelps for Senate" hubub started when Hartke watched Phelps'June 20 speech to the National Press Club on C-SPAN, the public affairs cable TV network. Phelps, never one to hold back any words no matter the subject, spoke on the problems in the educational system at all levels and the win-at-all-costs attitude in sports, among ot­her things. 
Hartke, a Democratic senator from Indiana for 18 years and now practicing law in the Washington, D.C., area, told Phelps he thought the speech was one of the best he had heard in a long time, and that he thought the 14-year Notre Dame coach could beat Quayle in the '86 senatorial race. 
Phelps, who says that he does not portray himself as eit­her a Democrat or a Republican at speaking engagements in order to maintain his credibility, figured he ended a cam­paign that never really got offthe ground by telling Hartke "no." Still, Hartke says the Phelps campaign is not yet over. "I take 'definitely not' to mean 'maybe,"' Hartke told the South Bend Tribune's Jack Colwell. "I think Phelps .can win." 
Phelps maintains that he will stick to coaching, but let him make a trip to the Final Four or the like this season and watch how fast he jumps back into the '86 race. 
You have to wonder, though, if Hartke thinks a basket­ball coach could become Indiana's next Democratic senator, why he did not go after Phelps' good friend, In­diana University basketball coach Bobby Knight. Knight, certainly no less popular in the state and equally out­spoken, would only figure to have an even better chance of winning against Quayle. Then again, how many senators have you ever seen throw a chair? Not exactly political grace, you would have to say. 
• 
Speaking of Phelps and the Irish basketball team, the recent loss ofassistant Pete Gillen to Xavier is going to hurt a lot. Not to take anything away from the present assistants, but Gillen was very excellent at his job. He was a top-notch recruiter, solid with the X's and O's and related well to the players. In fact, Basketball News rated him the fifth best asSistant in the country last year. 
Gillen had been waiting for the right head coaching op­portunity to come along for some time, and he couldn't have been any better prepared when the Xavier offer came along. Phelps' team will survive the loss of Gillen, as it has six other times when assistants have gone on to become head coaches, but itwill be strange not to see the energetic coach on the bench this season. 
On top oflosing Gillen, there is a chance that Phelps also may be losing assistant Gary Brokaw to the head coaching job at Rutgers. Brokaw is a native of New Brunswick, N.J., the location of Rutgers, and it is a natural for him to coach there even though he attended Notre Dame as an under­graduate. 
The Rutgers head job sits vacant today, and Phelps has been pushing Brokaw for the job through some ofhis many New York area contacts, including New York sports guru Sonny Werblin. It appears that Brokaw has only an outside chance at the job, but, as with most things in college sports, it certainly is not out ofthe question. For that reason, don't be surprised if Phelps is looking for another new assistant in the near future. 










