NFL draft -page 11 

VOL XIX, NO. 138 ·wEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 1985 

As students protest, Bennett speaks on education 
By THERESA GUARINO affecting you or me or anyone else," Saint Mary's Executive Editor he said. "We can continue to pour money in, and at some point the 
While a capacity crowd listened money is not going to mean anyth­to Secretary of Education William ing." Bennett speak yesterday afternoon "We cannot make reductions of in the Law School, approximately 30 this sort without some measure of students picketed outside, holding pain." signs and chanting "non-educator of Bennett was introduc~d to the the year." audience by Douglas Kmiec, direc­
Bennett was recently chosen tor of the White Center, who ex­Educator of the Year by the Law plained the reasons for Bennett's School's Thomas). White Center for award. "This award does not mean Law and Government. perfect agreement," he said. "Rather 
Bennett recently incurred the the award signifies appreciation of wrath of college students across the Secretary Bennett's intellect and nation for statements saying stu­courage for addressing and not dents would have to live without avoiding the issue of how education such benefits, as stereos, cars and resources can be directed." spring break trips to Florida, in order Bennett listed "ten critical issues to finance a college education. facing American education" during 
Bennett, however, did not address his speech, mainly dealing with the issue of student loans until the elementary and secondary educa­question and answer session after tion. his lecture. The topic was brought On what a child's education 
should cover, Bennett asked "is it not desirable a notion of a human being with certain grasps, or certain
'We cannot make 

traits?" reductions ofthis sort "Don't we want them to have stu­dents embrace truths ofthe Declara­

without some measure 

tion ofIndependence, the Federalist Papers, and the Constitution?" he

ofpain' 

Secretary of Education William Bennett spoke and Government of the Law School, incurred the
said. 

yesterday at the Law School, despite protesting stu­wrath of students nation-wide with his remarks
-Bennett Noting that the U.S. will need one 
dents outside. Bennett, who was named Educator concerning studentaid.
million new teachers by 1992, Ben­
ofthe Year by ti:Je Thomas]. White Center for Law 
up by a student who attacked Ben­nett said a "national priority" must nett's support of President Reagan's be the lack of morale plaguing proposed cuts in educational loans. American teachers, an issue more important to them than salary con­

Trustees to decide student fee fate 
"Look, we have a real big deficit of cerns, according to recent polls.
around $270 billion," he said. "We 
ByANDRE THEISEN the past year students from a num­Neal's proposal was approved by
have to make some cuts and some Fifty percent of students who StaffReporter ber ofdifferent groups have come to the Student Affairs Office. 
reductions. In the latest proposals begin college do not finish, said Ben­me with very good ideas, but there "We had been reviewing student we talk about reductions in many nett, who commented on the quality Fifteen bucks. That's what will be were no funds for them," she said. activities, and we knew Joni Neal areas of th~ budgets." 
and worth ofhigher education in the at stake when the Board ofTrustees had some excellent new ideas that 
The Reagan administration has U.S., and said a "serious reexamina­meets this week to decide, among Part of the problem, according to new funds could get offthe ground," recently agreed on compromise tion of the value and quality of hig­other things, the fate of the student Neal, is that student government said Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice budget cuts that say a family must her education is in order." fee. funds for each year are earmarked president for student affairs. make less than $60,000 a year to be Bennett spoke on American An increase in the fee, from $35 to for specific organizations early, If the fee increase is approved by eligible for federal student loans, but culture, and whether it is common $50, was originally proposed in Oc­during the preceding April. "So the Board of Trustees, the extra still make no allowance for the num­or exclusionary, asking "can't we tober by )oni Neal, director of the when groups propose activities funds would be under Neal's juris­ber ofcollege students in the family. come to some agreement that cer-student activities office. during the year, there are not always diction. There are four basic ways in 
"Some people seem to think it's "The need for increased funds funds to support their plans,'' Neal possible to make reductions without definitely exists," said Neal. "During said. see FEE, page 3
see BENNETT, page 4 


Racism at ND: Subtle but present 
Medical advisory issued 
Editor's Note: This is the second part ofa three article series detail­ing the problems and situations minority studentsface on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. Today's article focuses on the problems these studentsface. 
By MARC RAMIREZ 
SeniorStaffReporter 

Racism exists at Notre Dame, al­though it might not be as blatant as at other places, say black and Mexican-American University stu­dents. 
"Some things I've experienced remind me that there are racist people out there," said senior An­gela Hooten, this year's recipient of the Distinguished Student Award. 
"It's there, but it's subtle," echoed Ora Jones, a black Breen-Phillips resident who has been active in Notre Dame/Saint Mary's theater. "People are sometimes anywhere from intrigued to insulted. For what's considered a Christian in­stitution, those are strange reac­tions." 
Leo Gomez, a senior Chicano student from the Chicago area, agreed. "I wouldn't call it prejudice, but it's there. People say things, not direct remarks, but subtle things. It's like, 'Hey, there's Leo,' and then the jokes start -'Go back where you came from,' things like that. "I 
Minority Student Series 

tend to laugh it off. It's not a big deal to me. I've"experienced too much al­ready, through high school and grade school. It's part oflife. When I get out ofhere it'll be out there too." 
The problem, say these students, evolves most likely from students' lack of awareness of or little contact with minorities. These students know only what they read in newspapers or see on TV, and thus tend to develop stereotypes. 
"Coming from overseas, I didn't know blacks were supposed to like certain things because they were black," said Lynette Boggs, a black senior and former Notre Dame cheerleader. "Sometimes people think I'm here because I am black ­just to fill a quota." 
"A lot of people go by what they see on TV," said Jones. "They take the South African riots, or the situa­tion in southern Florida, and it's very stereotypical. Things haven't changed that much since the 60s." 
Madelyn Serna, a Taos, N.M., native who served as president of the American-Hispanic Organiza­tion this year, encountered the same social unawareness. "A lot of people's perceptions about us are that our families come right out of Mexico, and that they're all field workers. But it's still not as bad as other places." 
Hooten and Boggs both point to 
the Bookstore Basketball Tourna­
ment as a source of racial tension. "I 
hate Bookstore," she admitted. "It 
seems as if any team with blacks is 
automatically rooted against." 
see RACISM, page 4 
Special to The Observer 

Mark Maloney, a sophomore in Stanford Hall, is hospitalized at St. Joseph Medical Center with meningococcal meningitis. 
It is essential that students and others who have been in contact with Mark consider the following to determine if they require preventive medication, Carol Seager, director of the Notre Dame Student Health Center stressed. 
Seager said medication is ind­icated if within the last seven to 10 days someone has had prolonged contact, in the im­mediate presence of the infected person, for a significant part of the day. Medication is also ind­icated if someone has had in­timate contact with Maloney, such as kissing, drinking from the same vessel, eating a portion of the same food, sitting im­mediately adjacent to the in­fected person in a vehicle or participating in a close contact sport with Maloney. 
Medication is not indicated if within the last seven to 10 days someone has had casual contact with Maloney, such as short visits in the same room, presence at a party, and presence at the same dining hall. 
Mark's class schedule is as fol­lows: 
•Acct. 
232 Principles of Ac­counting II, MWF 1:1 •:;, Room 210 Hurley: 

•Econ. 
2.24 Principles of Economics II, MWF 2:20, Was­hington Auditorium; 

•hn
. .231 Business Finance, MWF 11:1 S, Room 109 Hurley; 

• Mgt. 2 3 1 Principles of Management, TT 4:15, Room 122 Hayes-Healy; 

•Mgt. 
240 Computers in Busi­ness, TT 2:45, Room 122 Hayes­Healy. 


Medication is available at the Student Health Center. Those who question their situation based on the above information are urged to contact the Student Health Center in person or by phone (239-7497). 

---------,---~----~------------­
The Observer 




In Brief 
To protesthostilitieswith Nicaragua, an Oklahoma University student group chalked OU students' names into a huge "student body" on campus sidewalks. The unusual artwork, done by members of the Central American Solidarity Coalition, was intended to dramatize the death toll it says would arise from a war with Nicaragua. The group persisted in re-doing the design when rain washed away most of their day's first work. Students' names were taken from the OU student directory. ·The Observer 
After three years of nurturing its home-grown Zuc­chini Festival, little Harrisville, N.H., is sending its zukes away to college. The 4th Annual International Zucchini Festival will be held Aug. 24 at Keene State College, l 0 miles from this town ofabout 900. "No one ever envisioned it being this big," said school director Cindy Thomashow. 
-AP 

Of Interest 
Father Paul Marx, president of Human life Interna­tional and former sociology professor will speak on "Contraception and Abortion" tonight at 7:30 in the Library Auditorium. The talk is sponsored by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Right to Life. 
·The Obsen•er 

Senior event tickets for the "Weddingless Recep· tion," to be held tonight, and tomorrow's "Thursday Movie Night" will be sold in the LaFortune main lobby from ll to 2. Reception tickets are S6, movie tickets are S2. 
·The Obsen•er 

The first group of undergraduates to receive special student research grants will be recognized for their achievements today at 2 p.m. in the Notre Dame Memorial Library lounge. Edward Kelly, president of the Retirement Research Foundation, which provided funds for the student grants, will present the under· graduate researchers with plaques and certificates. Sponsored through Notre Dame's Center for Gerontological Education, Research and Services, the program concentrates on aging and the elderly.· The Obsen1er 
Saint Mary's Women's Choir will present a 
"Concert ofSacred Music by French Composers" tomorrow night at R in Saint Mary's Church of l.oretto. Music Professor Nancy Menk will direct the program, which will include solos by Christine Vieck, Terri Kleinhans. Mary Nessinger. Marie Von Feldt, Sarah Bradley and Caroline Dillon. Organist Eric Brown will accompany the choir. The public is invited at no charge.· The Obsen•er 
The Notre Dame Department ofMusic 
will present the Hilliard Ensemble in a guest vocal recital tonight at 
R: I'5 in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. Pieces to be performed include "Henry VIII's Songbook" and works by Grainger, Poulenc, Schubert and Tallis. -The Observer 

Weather 
Tulips, crocuses, and other May 
flowers should appear today if the old adage about rain, April and plant life is true. They may get wet, however, due to a few lingering showers from last month. A 30 percent chance of rain today with highs near 70. Partly cloudy tonight with lows in the upper 40s. Partly sunny tomorrow with highs in the upper 60s. 
-AP 


The Observer 

Th~ 01-.,rv~r ( t'SPS ~99 2-4000) i• publish<:d Monday through Friday and on hom<: football Saturdays, nc<:pt 
during exam and vacation pc:riods. The 
ObKrv~r Is publish<:d by th<: stud<:nL• of th<: llniv<:rsity of Notr<: Dam<: and Saint Mary's Coll<:fl" Subscriptions may b<: purchas<:d (or no p<:r y<:ar ( 520 p<:r,.., m<:ot<:r) by writinll Th~ ObKrv~r. P 0 !lox Q. Notr<: Dam<:. lnd1ana 46~~6. 
~ ObKrv<:r is a m<:mb<:r of Th~ 
AMoclactd P~M. All r<:production 
righL• ar<: r<:S<:rv<:d 

Tuday's i~sue wa~ produ(.·cd hy: 
Design Editor............................. .. Andy Saal Design Assisttmt ..................... Alex Peltzer Layout Stt~ff ................ jane Anne Reidford Tvpesellers ................................ Vic Guarino N£•u•s Editor .. , .................... Boh Mus.'idman Copy l:'tlitor ......................... , ....... john Hines .\ports CoPJ' Editor...... Eric Scheuermann Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Mary Ellen Har­
rington 

Vieu'fJtJint LaJ•out.................... Carl Brown Features Copy Editor................... F.d Nolan Features Layout......... jane Anne Rcid(ord NU Uti)' Editor .............. Cindy Rauckhorst SMC /Jay Editor............... Toni Rutherford Ad Design .................................. Fred Nelson Photographer .......................... Mary Flynne 
Wednesday, May 1, 1985-page 2 



Advice for bar frequenters: Be 21 or prepare for this ... 
The house lights go up. The music is shut off. The beer stops flowing. It's a raid. 
Entering the doors, both front and back, are I 5 to 20 uniformed state police officers. They carry heavy black flashlights and wear Smokey the Bear hats. They look bad. 
About five are stationed at each door of the bar. The rest stand in groups around the room. Then the sweep begins. 
The groups of policemen break up, and individual cops start shaking down the patrons for IDs. Each policeman carries a paperback book, about the size ofa bartender's drink-mix book, which contains pictures of the legal driver's licenses and state identification cards from every state in the union. 
The police approach patrons and ask for IDs. The card is compared to the picture of the legitimate state issue. The birthdate and photo are checked. They ask 
mons. for another ID. court on Thursday and pay a 
If the patron matches up, S46 fine. I didn't get booked, he or she can stay and con­though," the student said. tinue to be hassled by the "After all that, they drove police. Usually, once a per­us back and left us off in son has been checked out, '' front of the bars," said the he or she strolls over to the student. bar across the street to con­Like veterans of wars, raid tinue the party in peace. veterans always have advice 
If the patron doesn't for the unexperienced. A check out, he or she is taken compilation of such advice out ·· either into a tem­includes: porary holding room set up •Not giving false identifica­in the backroom of the bar, tion. The police are able to or into one of the waiting check instantly if an ID card paddy wagons or squad cars. is legal or not. If it isn't the 
real McCoy, the possesor of 

Raids have become more common during the past school year. This is partly due to Notre Dame's alcohol policy causing a shift ofstudent drinking from on to off campus. The increased occurence of raids is also due in part to the new SUDS (Stop Underage Drinking) program recently initiated by the Indiana state and local law enforcement agencies. 
But whatever the cause, more raids mean more worry for students who want to have a few beers and relax with friends at the bar. 
During the most recent raid at Bridget McGuire's Fil­ling Station Thursday night, 31 Notre Dame students and I 0 Saint Mary's students were arrested and taken down to the East Sector substation for processing. They were ticketed and released. Four students were charged with presenting false identification as well as for being a minors in a tavern. These students were given more serious fines and more serious finger­wavings, and then released. 
One student who was arrested in the raid said the raid 

Dan 

McCullough 
News Editor 
was not really such a big deal. "When the police came I was just standing in the bar, trying to make my way to the door. I was avoiding all the uniformed officers when an undercover officer caught me. He carded me and I said I didn't have an ID. So he took me outside and some big guy stood with me near the van." 
"I was really tempted to run, but I decided against that," the student said. "While we were waiting a lot of the people who were arrested were just joking about it. I was just kind ofangry," said the student. 
"They wrote us up a sum­
I have to appear in 


the card is in even more hot 
water than the patron who claims to have no ID at all. Also, a borrowed ID shouldn't be shown to the cops because the police in­variably request at least two proofs. Not only will the presenter get burned, but the person who was generous enough to lend the card will be in trouble too. 
•Nervousness 
has no place in a raid. Raids are usually non-violent. Trouble occurs when somebody loses his or her cool and decides to try to break a window or punch a cop or something. That's when somebody gets hurt. 

•Don't 
try to get smart with the cops. As a rule ofthumb, South Bend police don't like Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students. They would just as well book you on a resisting arrest charge than argue with you. And they have heard it all before, anyway. 


The student who was arrested said he probably should have known better than to go to Bridget's on AnTostal Thursday. 
Would he return to the bars? "For sure," he said. 


IAMERICAN

How you live ~~CANCER may save your life. fSOCIETY11 
Call: 288-2212 

Amtrak Travel and Express Service 
•
Tickets by mail 

• 
Tickets can be held at Station until day of departure 


Free Express Pick-up Service from Campus 
1-50 lbs. $18 50-100 lbs. $22 
Rates are lower for some states 
*Limit of 50 lbs/box 
•
No limit to number of pieces per shipment 

•
Bike boxes available *Rates go down after 100 lbs. 



l_ 
~----------------~-~----------------------------"""'11111 

The Observer 


Fee 
continuedfrom page 1 
which Neal plans to use the money: to subsidize hall events and trips, to provide social activities on a regular basis, to fund special projects, and to publicize scheduled social events. 
Not everyone approves of the fee increase, however. Last week the Student Senate unanimously passed a resolution that condemns the proposed increase. The resolution recommends that the Board ofTrus­tees reject the increase as well, and calls for the formation of a commit· tee to pursue "a set of recommenda­tions that will lead to the development of a sufficient social atmosphere and sufficient social facilities at Notre Dame." 

Bill Healy, student body presi­dent, was not entirely opposed to an increase, but he felt fifteen dollars was too much. "I truly believe Joni Neal should have funds, but I'm not sure they should come from the stu­dents. If there is an increase, it should be a modest one," said Healy. 
Neal, in defense of the increase, said she had "found out that the fee at schools comparable to Notre Dame is S80 or more, so increasing the fee to S50 seems very reasonable." 
Members of student government also disapproved of the fact that the extra fifteen dollars would come un-

Wednesday, May 1, 1985-page 3 


Art department at Saint Mary's enters holographic dimension 
ByJOHN WALTERS 
Senior StaffReporter 
Doug Tyler is taking the Saint Mary's Art Department into new dimensions. Three dimensions, to be exact. 
Tyler, assistant professor of art at Saint Mary's College, is an expert in the field of holography. Some of his works are presently being featured in a major exhibition at the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris, France. 
Holography is an innovative art form which features the production of three-dimensional images through the use of laser light sources. Originally a painter, Tyler said that he became interested in holography when he realized the im­plications of using the third dimen­sion in visual art. 
His involvement with the technique began in 1977 when the 
price  of  lasers,  previously  
astronomical,  dipped  below  the  
thousand-dollar mark.  

der the jurisdiction of Neal and the Student Activities Office. Lenz, however, felt there were advantages to having the money go through Neal. "We have seen a lot of funds mismanaged. Joni is a professional and will ensure quality programs to add to the good student-organized activities that already exist," said Lenz. 
Neal emphasized the need for regularly scheduled social events, "so that people know, for instance, that every Saturday night something is going on," she said. Neal felt that LaFortune would provide the facility for such consistent social program­ming after that structure is renovated. 



SCHOLASTIC 
1985 1986 
WRITERS INFORMATION NIGHT WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 7 o'cLoCK LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE 

Tyler's holograms-are just one portion ofthe exhibit, titled "Les Im­materiaux"(the immaterial). Tyler explained that the exhibit is both ex­citing and controversial due to its theme, the surge of intangible ob­jects that influence man's world today. 
"Material such as lasers and com­puter information are gaining in in­fluence, yet they are things that people are unable to physically grasp, and this confuses them," ex­plained Tyler. 
"The entire exhibit was organized by a philosopher, not an artist, and 
its  aim  is  to  startle,  to  be  
provocative."  
Tyler's  works  have  been  ex­ 

hibited at the Museum of Holog­raphy in New York and the California Museum of Photography in Riverside. His present exhibition, which runs until)uly 15, came about when his work was being exhibited in London and was recommended to French museum curators. 
Tyler dismissed one popular mis­conception about the use of holograms. 
"Those were not holograms you saw in the Star Wars movies," he said. "The images of Ben Kenobi and Princess Leia that appeared to Luke Skywalker were done through animation. Holography is not yet sophisticated enough to produce those types ofimages." 

Tyler said holograms have been employed in films, but since they were used in the movies "Logan's Run" and "The Man Who Fell to Earth," the use of holograms in Hol­lywood has not had a major impact on the special effects area of the movie industry. 
Tyler is on sabbatical this year, taking optics and math courses in Chicago. "All artists have to keep up with technological advances in their art," he joked. 
His plans include a summer workshop in holography at Saint Mary's, plus a holography course during the 1986 spring semester at Saint Mary's. Offered as an art course, it will also be available to Notre Dame students. 
"It's very exciting," said the Niles, Michigan, resident of the course he will instruct. "We have the chance to get a jump over the nation's uni­versities in the study of holography as an art form." 
Investment petition circulated at HPC 
By SCOTT BEARBY 
AssistantNews Editor 
A petition asking the Notre Dame Board ofTrustees to reevaluate Uni­versity investment policies was circ­ulated at the Hall Presidents' Council last night. 
John Dettling, chairman ofthe stu­dent government committee for responsible business practices, said he will ask the Board of Trustees to reevaluate investment policies which currently allow the Univer­sity to invest in companies which have interests in South Africa. 
Dettling asked for HPC support so the trustees can see that the South African investment issue is a con­cern among campus leaders. By han­dling the presentation in an adult manner and without irrational acts, Dettlinghopes the Board ofTrustees will be more impressed and give special attention to their request. 
"We may be a little behind other universities; they have been demonstrating against Americans in­vesting in South Africa for some time," said Dettling. However, Det­tling feels demonstrating at the board meeting might be a little rash. 

"We just want them to reevaluate policy. We are not calling for divest­ment, but just want to discuss some serious questions the committee has," added Dettling. 
The petition calls for the trustees "to initiate dialogue on South African investment policies in light ofrecent turmoil. 
In other business, a representative from the campus blood drives presented certificates to halls which were able to get 1 0 percent of their halls' populations to donate blood. Breen Phillips Hall fared best of all the dorms with a 25 percent dona­tion figure. 
Overall, 542 units of blood were collected for the year. This, accord­ing to the spokesman, is up from 1 59 units the year before. 
Last night's meeting concluded HPC business for the year. 
Chameleon Club presents 


IRISH NIGHT 
with John Kennedy 
Wednesday, May 1st 8-10 P.M. Haggar College Terrace 
• 
Come celebrate Irish night with Irish songs and green lemonade!! 


•Ifit rains, it will be held inside the Chameleon Room 


Wednesday, May 1, 1985-page 4

The Observer 
We are also pleased to welcome the following 1985 Saint Mary's College graduates 
to our firm:  
CHICAGO OFFICE  HARTFORD OFFICE  
Mary Carol Daly, BBA  Cynthia D. Varanka, BBA  
Audit  Audit  
Lynn M. Lambke, BBA  
Audit  LOS ANGELES OFFICE  
Julie A. Strazzabosco, BBA  Joanne M. Indelicato, BBA  
Audit  Audit  

ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co. 
33 WEST MONROE STREET, CHICAGO, IL 60603 (312) 58Q-0033 
The Saint Francis Shoppe is having a Spring Sale! May 2, 3 & 4 
SAVE FROM 10-50% ON ALL MERCHANDISE 
Including: 
• 
Sterling jewelry 

• 
Peruvian rugs & pillow covers 


• 
Navajo rugs • Onyx carvings 

• 
Ebony & Teak Carvings • Coffee 


Discover a unique shop with handcrafted merchandise we are proud to present. 



~Saint francis~ 
U.S. 31 NORTH (behind Fatima Retreat Center) Hours: 10am-5pm, Monday-Saturday/Phone 233-7467 

Bennett 
continuedfrom paf!,e 1 
tain values and principles like equality and liberty are shared by all?" 
Educational reform \Vill come about when parents become more involved in their children's educa­tion, Bennett said."Parents are indis­pensable teachers," he continued. "They have increased opportunities to make critical choices about their children's education." 
The hiring and continuing educa­tion of principals and superinten­dents must be kept under close scrutiny, Bennett stressed, saying 
Dame have recently become associated with our firm: 
ATLANTA OFFICE 
William M. Grojean, BBA 
Audit 
Richard M. Lewis, BBA 
Consulting 
David M. O'Haren, BBA 
Audit 
BALTIMORE OFFICE 
Jeffrey J. Allison, BBA 
Audit 
BOSTON OFFICE 
Thomas Breitenbach, MBA 
Consulting 
William G. Goslee, BBA 
Audit 
CHICAGO OFFICE 
Samuel A. Awad, BS 
Consulting 
Susan M. Cessar, BBA 
Consulting 
Linda S. Cleveland, BBA 
Consulting 
Patricia A. Conway, BBA 
Consulting 
Kathryn J. Donohoe, BA 
Consulting 
Bernard Q Dy, BBA 
Audit 
Matthew J. Eaken, BBA 
Audit 
Daniel S. Falter, BBA 
Audit 
Sherri L. Flohr, BBA 
Consulting 
James R. Gerbo, BS 
Consulting 
Kathleen M. Hogan, BA 
Consulting 
Christine E. Jeffirs, BA 
Consulting 
Michael J. Kennelly, BBA 
Audit 
Thomas F. Knee, BS 
Consulting 
Mark D. Ludtke, BBA 
Consulting 
Kathleen M. Maher, JD 
Tax 
Davicl M. Mastic, BBA 
Consulting 
Kevin Q. McCarter, BA 
Consulting 
Mary C. Minogue, BBA 
Consulting 
Michael J. Pigott, BBA 
Audit 
"one trait found in every successful school is a strong leader." 
Bennett criticized the lowering of academic standards for minority and disadvantaged students. "Educational improvement and ex­cellence are goals for all students," he said. "We can't hold minority stu­dents to lower standards while everyone else is in the mainstream." 
Everyone shares a responsibility for the education ofthe young, com­mented Bennett. "Education is not a dismal science or an essentially mys­terious activity," he said. "Even when we're not trying, we're teach­ing or mis-teaching the young." 
Regarding educatinal reform, there are two groups Americans 
Edward C. Roohan, BBA 
Audit 
Marya R. Sakowicz, BA 
Consulting 

Jennifer C. Salvador, BA 
Consulting 

Michael W. Schmutz, BS 
Consulting 

Jean M. Schommer, BBA 
Audit 
Julia A. Schwebel, BS 
Consulting 
Paul K. Sidrys, BA 
Consulting 
James W. Sowar, BBA 
Audit 
Sandi L. Stevens, BBA 
Audit 
Jill K. Strenzel, MBA 
Consulting 
Andrea M. Vargo, JD 
Tax 
Stephen H. wagner, BA 
Consulting 
Mary M. Welch, BBA 
Consulting 

Thomas E. Woidat, BBA 
Audit 
Andrew L. Wolf, BBA 
Audit 
CHICAGO -lt'IORLD HEADQUARTERS 
Stanton J. Taylor, BS 
Consulting 
COLUMBUS OFFICE 
Robert J. Doone, BBA 
Consulting 
DALLAS OFFICE 
Steven C. Burt, BBA 
Audit 
David A. Montoya, BBA 
Audit 
Sharon A. Soller, BBA 
Audit 

Marylou P. Yepsen, BBA 
Consulting 
DENVER OFFICE 
Jerome R. Judd, BBA 
Audit 
DETROIT OFFICE 

Brian A. Bartkowiak, BBA 
Audit 

William A. Montague, MS 
Consulting 

must be warned about, Bennett noted. One is those who declare a "premature victory," and another is the cynics "who insist you can't do anything." 
"Two years ago the American people declared a war on educa­tional decline. There is still a long way to go, and I hope you will join me in the campaign." 
UnitedWay
• 
HOUSTON OFFICE 
Paul D. Adelizzi, BBA 
Tax 
Annette C. Peterson, BS 
Consulting 
INDIANAPOLIS OFFICE 
Verrita L. washington, BBA 
Tax 
LOS ANGELES OFFICE 
Bradford K. Amman, MBA 
Tax 
Jeffrey C. Williams, BBA 
Audit 
Frank S. Wosczyna, BBA 
Consulting 
MINNEAPOLIS OFFICE 
Judy A. Fenlon, BBA 
Audit 
NEW JERSEY OFFICE 
Daniel J. Brady, BBA 
Audit 
NEW YORK OFFICE 
William J. McDermott, BBA 
Audit 
PHILADELPHIA OFFICE 
Ann M. Gobbie, BBA 
Audit 
Michele M. Marchio, BBA 
Consulting 
ST. LOUIS OFFICE 
Jane D. Panfil, BBA 
Audit 
TAMPA OFFICE 
Robert J. Becht, BBA 
Consulting 
TOLEDO OFFICE 
Patricia J. Stierwalt, BBA 
Audit 
WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICE 
Laura L. Deister, BBA 
Consulting 
James G. Koehr, BS 
Consulting 
Henry F. Lange, BBA 
Audit 
Thomas J. Treat, BBA 
Consulting 


Racism 
continuedfrom page 1 

"If you talk to people, you'll find racism is really prevalent (in the tournament)," said Hooten. "Racial tensions really come out. You wouldn't think that at Notre Dame something like that would happen, but it does." 
Jones said there seems to be general apathy for some issues among students -not just concern­ing minorities or abortion, but "things which our generation should be.· concerned with." 
"People don't seem to be in­terested," she commented. "If we are to function as a society, then each person should be responsible for caringabout things. For example, you can't say poverty is not your problem because you're not poor." 
University statistics arc mislead­ing. They claim that I 0 percent of Notre Dame students are minorities, but that number includes 37S foreign students. "You can't include international students," argued Hooten. "Most don't consider them­selves minorities. They're out of 
their  own  country,  yes,  but  not  
minorities."  
Foreign  students  arc  well  ac­ 

cepted at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Hemant Tiwari, head of the India Association, said he has never encountered discrimination or prejudice here. Hong-qing Yang of the People's Republic of China has been here for two years and testified to good relations between himself and Americans. And Saint Mary's senior Sylvia Caldera of Nicaragua said rather than experiencing any racism, just the opposite is true. 
"People seem to be very in­terested when they know I'm from somewhere else," said Caldera. "One thing that has made being here so nice is not only the girls I have met, but also their families who have treated me as their daughter." 
Hooten pointed out that the num­ber offoreign students -who are not actively recruited by Notre Dame-is more than twice the number of black students here ( 174), who are actively recruited. 
Notre Dame Director of Admis­sions Kevin Rooney reported "steady improvement" in the recruiting of minorities -notably an increase from the 1960s "when there were almost no blacks" to 
198.2 when Notre Dame "set a new record for blacks enrolled in the freshman program ( 70)." 
But, a.~ Hooten noted, the number ofblack freshmen dropped toSS the following year and then dipped to 36 the pa.~t academic year. "That's not progress," she said. "We're slip­ping. We've got to get on our toes." 
"Not many black women want to come here," Boggs said. "I don't think I'd want my daughter to come here, or my son, for that matter." 
"It's up to the administration to take charge," charged Jones. "lbis University can be very dosed off, being in the Midwest, in a small city." 
Serna, however, credited the Uni­versity for its efforts the last two years, which have resulted in a large increase in Hispanic students, but said Notre Dame could do a lot more to woo Hispanics. 
Gomez suggested a minority alumnus who would recruit other minorities but who would also describe the situation realistically, outlining problems potential stu­dents might face at Notre Dame, in­cluding loneliness upon the detachment from one's home culture. "That's why it's good to see your Hispanic friends," he said. "It's not like you become a clique. But it's someone with the same back­ground, who's eaten the same food, spoken the same language. Someone to make you feel at home." 
ARTHUR 
ANDERSEN 
&£9 

We are pleased to announce the following 1985 graduates of the University of Notre 
The Observer Wednesday, May 1, 1985-page 5 


Senior Fellow nominees chosen 
UMOC results... 
Special to The Observer 
The results are in from An Tos­tal's Ugly Man on Campus com­petition. For the fifth consecutive year, law student Mike "Gorgar" Gurdak out-uglied the competi­tion to be named Notre Dame's 1985 UMOC. Votes were cast in the form of pennies, with all proceeds going to the Northeast Neighborhood Center. 
Vote totals are listed below. 
Mike "Gorgar" Gurdak Camille "the Coop" Cooper Yodus the Atrocius Dr. Phillip E. Kkhha Tom Hartzell Newg Dave Flanagan Michelle Takazawa Merwyn Thoma!l Angus Schllagert 
j.P. "Oeath" Kress Terry Regan john Sisto Mike Prendergast Joe "Puty" Piccolo Father David E. Noone Matt Holloway Steve Demartio Dr. Charlrs Kulpa Luke "Puke Belsh'' Welsh Dave Steven:mn Paul "No Morals" Sowyada Mike ''Spike" Roberts 
John Meara Guatam Koo Lon "NFA" Huffman Paul Carpinteri Scott "The Monster" Boulanger Mike Hawley Louisa DeMello Sr. M.}. Boris Schlaggart Fritz l.upone PeterTwohy Phil Porseni "Iron" Masua Man Kelty Rudy "Mr. Potato Head" Brandl jim "Crime Stopper" McDonald Tom Weyenberg Ken McDonnell 

USE OF· BR 
100.643 10,643 10.110 8,550 4,600 l.814 2,456 1.563 689 S89 521 318 l50 200 200 200 200 200 150 14~ 140 135 100 100 100 100 100 100 
90 

85 81 69 59 50 50 50 50 50 47 34 33 Len Bielski 
33' 

john "Velcro Head" Liv 
31 Rich "Chimp" Schimpf 
27 Mike "Baby Harp Seal" Gleason 27 john "Birdman" Bruening 27 Paul "Sandy BB" Anderson 27 john ''PO[scrubber" Adams 27 Dave "Hurting" Graham 26 jim Foley 26 Kristin Woehl 2~ Dave Wilson 25 "Big Fat" John Whitmer 2~ Bruce Turner 25 Pat Tripeny 25 Mahari Tjahjadi 
2~ 

Mark Schippits 25 Paul "Vulture" Ryan 
25 Susan Raab 
25 Laura Raab 25 Mrs. Poobah 
25 

Glenford Peters 
25 

Frank "Chin" O'Brien 
25 

"Monobrow" Milone 
25 

''Skull" McNicholas 
25 

Fred Chute 
25 Pete Bowen 
25 

GregSendi 
22 

Roland Saldanha 
20 Jim New 20 CliJford Uchaytoo 15 
"Spud the Gardener" 
11 Cindy Fay-Food 11 Ed Swaine 10 Kevin Maurke O'Shea 
10 "Gumby" Proctor 
10 "The Post Doc" 10 Fats Nissley 
10 V. Nicolette 10 john M. Murphy 
10 "The Moaning Yake" 
10 

Monk "French Connection" Malloy 
10 joe "Hormone" 
10 

Peter Flanagan 
10 Lynne Cary 
10 Markle Cammarata 
10 Lee Broussard 
10 Tom Bauer 
10 Christy Full 
7 Pato Serrano 
5 

Rom 
Ed Hughes 
Rick Hodder 
Mike Beaudine Javier Oliva 
Rob "The Lazy Loveable Slob" Neus 
Mark l.udtke 
David Rivers 
Take a tablet. Get a look and feel more in Europe and Canada for and Drug Administration, 100% of people deep, rich, and natural Two 30 m.g. canthaxanthiri]' solutely sate, wonderful tans maintain your tan. 
The use of canthaxanthin Is fully compatible with bathing or ultraviolet fight, resultingin:adee darker color than can be obtained With the canthaxanthin alone. Usual precautions are ble with sun exposure. Durk Pearson, author of "Ufe Extension~ APractical u'i Scientific Approach': states in his bOok "Canthax:zt;:: .· anthin, taken over aperiod of time will yield abeau­tiful bronze color to the skin that looks like a sun tan ... [Canthaxanthin] is ared pigment found in cer­tain edible mushrooms, shellfish, and flamingo feathers." This product is guaranteed to be absolutely harm­less to your health. Canthaxanthin is used extensively in foods you eat and is approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration as a food coloring agent. 100 BfAUTIFUL TAN tablets $29.95; 200 $54.95. Indiana residents add 50/o sales tax. refund if not satisfied! · 
Visa and MasterCard orders ONLY call: 
219-236-5829 
Of S('.nd che-ck ot money order 1o. 


Sans de Soleil 
AU ord<tffl shipl'<'d U.P.S. withon 48 hours
health care products 
Allow 14-day deHill!ry for clw<:ks
midwest 

Product litefolufe enclom woth each rnd..,. 
Post Office Box 395 • Elkhart. lrdiana 46515 

By MARK WORSCHEH 
Senior StaffReporter 
Two administrators, an alumnus and a rector, were selected yester­day by the Senior Fellowship Com­mittee to be placed on the ballot for Senior Fellow. The award honors the member of the Notre Dame com­munity who has most affected the senior class. 
Seniors may vote tomorrow and Friday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Ombudsman desk in the LaFortune Student Center. The award will be presented at the Senior Week cock· tail party May 17. 
Open nominations yesterday and Monday produced a list of 15 names from which the committee chose four. Nominated were: 
• 
Gary Caruso, a 1973 graduate of Notre Dame and the legislative director ofthe House Committee on Select Education. Caruso, who spoke at the 1984 Mock Conven­tion, also is president of the Notre Dame Club of Washington, D.C. 

• 
Father Steve Gibson, rector of Carroll Hall. Gibson, awarded Rec­tor the Year in 1984, announced April 14 that this year would be his last as rector ofthe hall. 

• 
Paul Reynolds, Jr., assistant director of Career and Placement Services. Reynolds has served as counselor to many in the senior class, and he is a frequent lecturer on career choices and strategies. 

• 
James Roemer, former dean of students, and present director of community relations for the Univer­sity. 


Ward Fitzgereld, senior class vice president and a member ofthe com­mittee, said the elections are late this year, explaining that Spring and Easter breaks contributed to the delay. 
"We just got a really late start on it. We've been working on other things. It was a priority that just got pushed back," he said. 
The committee also decided that a valid election no longer requires a 50 percent turnout of the class. The candidate that receives the most votes this year wins, no matter how many seniors vote. Fitzgereld hopes to avoid a repeat of last year's con­troversial election. 
The Class of 1984's committee ignited protests among seniors by not including Harold B. Augustine on the final ballot. The committee ruled that Augustine, a 1959 graduate, did not meet the qualifica­tions established for the award. 

Augustine gained campus fame last spring after his appearance in Campus Comments, in which he responded to a question about al­cohol use here by saying, "A wet campus is a happy campus." 
Nine other nominees did appear on the ballot. Voter turnout, however, did not exceed the re­quired 50 percent, and no fellow was named. 
Father John Fitzgereld, former director of Campus Ministry, was chosen to be the 1983 Senior Fel­low. Other past winners include Robert Leader, art professor; Father Daniel Berrigan, peace activist; and Sen. Eugene McCarthy, the first Senior Fellow in 1969. 



Busted at Bridget's 
Special to The Observer 
South Bend police and state 
excise officers arrested 41 
people, 31 Notre Dame students 
and 10 Saint Mary's students, for 
underage drinking early Friday 
morning at Bridget McGuire's Fil­
ling Station, 1025 South Bend 
Ave. 
According to supervision of­ficer Sgt. David Woods, four were arrested on charges of false iden­tification and being a minor in a tavern. The remaining 3 7 were arrested on charges of being minors in a tavern. All were taken to the East Sector substation for processing. 
Arrested were Kristen Novotny of Lewis Hall; Neil Mul­ligan of Grace Hall; Peter Del­giudice of Morrissey Hall; Constance O'Brien of Walsh Hall; John Beaghan of Flanner Hall; Ralph Mastrangelo of Cavanaugh Hall; and John Pat Sexton ofSorin Hall. 
Also arrested were Sheila Smig­gen of LeMans Hall; Mary Napoli off campus, Saint Mary's; Molly Crooks, Lyons Hall; Gregory Bris­son, Sorin Hall; James Fitzgerald, Flanner Hall; Mark Stringer, Flan­ner Hall; Thomas F. Ryan, Grace Hall; Maurus Kosco, Sorin Hall; and Colleen Burns ofMcCandless Hall. 

Also arrested were Mark Er­pelding of Alumni Hall; Gregory Duncan, off campus, Notre Dame; Paul Cueny, off campus, Notre Dame; Suzanne Cavalier of Holy Cross Hall, Saint Mary's; Stephen Skupien of Flanner Hall; Carleen Mollet of McCandless Hall; Kellie Dovich of Holy Cross Hall, Saint Mary's; and John Bowen of Pangborn Hall. 
Also arrested were Kimberly Seifert of Regina Hall; Robert Tirva of St. Edward's Hall; Eric Grasberger of Flanner Hall; Lisa Watts of McCandless Hall; David Krus of Stanford Hall; John Gormley of Flanner Hall; Jean MacKay, off campus, Notre Dame; Laura Conrey of Regina Hall; Linda Villalobos, off campus, Notre Dame;Jose Esteve ofZahm Hall; Mary Ann White of Holy Cross Hall, Saint Mary's; Cynthia McAndrews of Holy Cross Hall, Saint Mary's; Kevin Butterfield of Dillon Hall; Timothy O'Connor of Flanner Hall; Thomas McLean of Dillon Hall; Bernard Wilson of Flanner Hall; and Kevin Dillon off campus, Notre Dame. 
Attention Seniors: 
You may purchase your "Weddingless Reception" tickets ($6 ea.) and "Movie Night" tickets ($2 ea.) on Wed. and Thurs., May 1 and 2, in the main lobby of Lafortune from 11 am to 2 pm. 
Tickets are limited for both events so buy early!! 
Graduation 


Special 

You and your friends can have your very own Observer ad 
accept almost any picture, almost any information . give us the material by lpm two publishing days prior to the insertion date 
For only a few dollars per friend you can give this one-of-a-kind gift that won't be lived down for years 
The Observer, 303 Lafortune Student Center, 239-5303 
--~---------------~~ ---~ ­



~i~~~_()__i_ll__t_________________
w_ed-ne-sd-ay_,M_ay-1,_19-85--pa-ge-6 

Do you have a Notre Dame Credit Union share draft account with a balance lower than SSOO? Ifso, you now owe the Credit Union S2. 
Beginning today, all share draft accounts that drop below SSOO will face a S2 service 
Amy Stephan 

not on my account 
charge. It is a safe bet that this charge will af­fect nearly all student share draft accounts. 
Some students are outraged; others are just mildly annoyed. How can the Credit Union pos.<>ibly expect students to keep a share draft balance of SSOO? 
It can't. And it probably doesn't. 
The Credit Union, however, did not enact this policy to drive students away. It imple­mented these charges "to offset reduced income as well as increasing costs," according to an article in last Friday's Observer. And it is perfectly justified in doing so. 
"Free" checking accounts are the excep­tion, not the rule. Most banks impose some sort of charge for checking services. One may 
Doonesbury 

question the policy ofcharging only those ac­counts with balances under SSOO, but this too can be justified. The interest gained from small accounts cannot cover the cost of ser­vicing these accounts. In short, small accounts cost the Credit Union money. 
But isn't the purpose of the Credit Union to serve the students of Notre Dame? 
Not entirely. The Credit Union serves Notre Dame faculty, staff and alumni, among others. Students represent a small percentage of the Credit Union's accounts. 
The Credit Union is a business, not a service. It can no longer afford to carry the weight of all those unprofitable student ac­counts. 
The Credit Union does not owe Notre Dame students free checking. And students do not owe the Credit Union their loyalty just be­cause it carries the Notre Dame name. 
Economic considerations motivated the Credit Union to implement fees. They could also motivate some students to close their Credit Union accounts. 
Amy Stephan is a third-year English and electrical engineering major at Notre Dame and is the managing editor ofThe Obseroer. 




The family atmosphere at ND is evaporating 
The recent announcement that Father Steve Gibson will not return next year as rec­tor of Carroll Hall not only reflects a sadden­ing change in the character ofhall life at Notre Dame, it reflects the larger deterioration of the Notre Dame "family." 
Though I do not know Father Steve per­sonally, I am familiar with his reputation. The residents of Carroll Hall both like and respect him because he treats them as adults, chal­lenging them to develop as people by taking responsibilty for themselves. 
Dave Grote 
speaking out of turn 
The problem that this attitude breeds for the Notre Dame administration is that placing greater importance on personal development demands that less attention be paid to the rules. But there is little room for respecting students as mature, sensitive people at a uni­versity where, over the past four years, rules enforcement has become the major emphasis in hall administration. 
For all practical purposes Father Steve was fired -fired because he refused to treat stu­dents as children, refused to let life in Carroll Hall become restrictive and refused to assume an adversarial role in hall life. 
This change in the character ofhall life mir­rors a larger change in the character of the University as a whole. This lack of respect for students along with the unforgiving and sometimes insensitive enforcement of hall rules reflects the Joss ofa sense offamily in the Notre Dame community. 
The family atmosphere Father Hesburgh so often speaks ofis on the verge ofdisappearing totally from campus life. A family consists of people who both care for and respect each other -too often this has been eroded by a condescending and domineering administra­tion. 
The refusal ofthe University to grant tenure to many good and respected professors has led many faculty members to view the ad­ministration as unfair and manipulative. The 
Garry Trudeau 



~5 ~~~~ 
M11<&'8/T8UR6N 

University's demand that professors spend 
much of their time doing research has left stu­
dents feeling short-changed on their $7'500 
yearly tuition. 
According to one tenured professor in the 
College of Engineering, newly hired profes­
sors are told that they must get research 
money, and that they need only do a passable 
job in the classroom. It does not pay for a 
professor to spend time with his under­
graduate students. In fact, more and more it is 
becoming a liability. Professors are told to 
limit their office hours to keep from getting 
caught up with students needing help -be­
cause it will limit their research time. 
The days when dose relationships developed between students and faculty are slowly disappearing with only a few profes­sors working to maintain the tradition. This impersonal atmosphere is making a Notre Dame education indistinguishable from those at large, state, educational factories. 
Too many students have come to distrust an 
administration with a long legacy of ignoring 
student concerns and frustrating the efforts of 
student government. Though the new ad­
ministration seems more open, its predeces­
sor for years rejected almost every proposal 
put forth by student government and the 
Campus Life Council. 
Notre Dame has been stuggling with its 
identity as a Catholic institution. Well, maybe 
those in the administration should realize that 
Notre Dame's Catholic character always has 
been grounded in its family identity. And that 
unless students, faculty and administrators 
trust and respect each other and are willing to 
work together, Notre Dame is destined to be 
just another insensitive institution. 
Does Notre Dame's development as a prominent university demand the estrange­ment of its family members? As the cur­riculum becomes more difficult and the workload increases must the opportunities for personal growth disappear? If the answers to these questions are "yes" then the Notre Dame ofthe future will be a less friendly and a less nurturing place. 
David G. Grote is a senior electrical en­gineering major at Notre Dame. 
Quote of the day 

"A wet campus is a happy campus." 
-Harold B. Augustine 


1 

"ieVVP-~O~i~n~t______________________________________________w_e_d_n_es_d_ay_,_M_a_y_I_,_I9_s_s__~p~ag~e--7 
~ 
l 
Mankind must forgive so it can be forgiven 
Recently there has been much discussion dead bones Reagan now wishes to honor. But, However, what America wills must be Reagan's wishes in that direction. The point of on Reagan's proposed visit to a cemetary in alas, many Germans survived. Among them done. No insignificant pressure was applied to the proposed cemetary visit, then, is not that it Germany where Nazi soldiers lie buried. former Nazis. A good number ofthem came to the Bonn government to do away with their primarily offends Jewish feelings; the point is Someone argued in favor ofthe visit by stating positions ofpower in both East and West Ger­territorial sovereignty and to allow Pershings that it is a conscious act of further preparing 
I
that "time has come to start forgiving the Ger­many. Indeed,even today a jolly good number to be deployed. Try to imagine the horror American and German people alike for a U.S. 
I
man people for a crime which their fathers of West Germany's Parliament members are Germans felt when the fuel tank of one of aggression against the Soviet Union by belit­
1
former Nazis. Indeed, only one of West Ger­those deadly monsters exploded -killing tling the Hitler spirit. 
l
many's presidents was not a former Nazi three U.S. soldiers; fortunately the nuclear While I am in full agreement that forgive­
Jurgen Brauer 1
(Gustav Heinemann), and indeed Germany's contents of the missile did not explode. ness is good and needs to be practiced, I am , present President, Richard von Weizsacker Reagan thinks he needs Pershings in Germany pointing to the satanic, devilish nature of ,guest column was a member of the Nazi party. Nazis are not and elsewhere, like Italy, Britain, Belgium and Reagan's and Kohl's attempt to buy our wil­1dead in Germany; indeed, to my sorrow I find the Netherlands, but in the face of rising op­lingness to forgive with our willingness to 
'i
the movement very much alive in Germany, position he also needs a way to wage psyc­psychologically lower our resistance barrier 
1
committed," and to "forgive the German and I dare say that Hitler's spirit still lives in hological warfare so the German people begin to the Hitler spirit of subduing other peoples 
~ 
people for their past sins." While not belittling Germany. The recent swing to the political to lose their fear ofyet another war commenc­and nations. Now that I have pointed that out, ,the crime itself, that crime still makes those right in that country as well as the political ing from their land. One method of subduing I trust that the cemetary-visit supporters will ,soldiers not "any less deserving of respect polarization there are but two hints to docu­this fear is, of course, to argue that the Nazis scream "But no, this is not what we meant to than those who fought on the 'right' side." ment my claim. That is one side of the argu­were not really as bad as the Jews portray support," which is exactly the point: once we 
Let me respond to the presentdebate as one ment. them to be. The Nazis -past and present -are become conscious of psychological warfare ofthose unfortunate creatures who, for lack of The other side is, of course, the present also just some people deserving respect. They we all stand ashamed of how it leads us to do viable alternatives, are forced to roam this political climate in Germany and the United are victims themselves; they are "just like you what we never "really" wanted to do; I know earth with a German passport in their pockets. States; U.S. troops have begun deploying and me," as some argue. that this was the way Hitler and Goebbels First of all, let me agree that stigmatization is Pershing II missiles on German territory If you now put the two sides of the argu­used to wage psychological wirfare against always doubtful and that forgiveness is always against the explicit wishes of the German ment together, you will get this: a con­the German people to incite them to the atro­good. And then let me point out what I feel are populace, even government studies have servative Bonn'government, with no small but cious acts they committed in Hitler's name. the political motives for Reagan and Kohl to shown themajority ofthe German people are a majority following in the population -with Reagan and his colleagues in Bonn are just seek this kind of "forgiveness" now. As you against those deadly weapons. The protests respect to the nuclear armament issue that is, doing the self-same thing. know, May 8 is coming up. On May 8, 1945, against another U.S. invasion of German soil which in many of its actions has shown Hit­Forgiveness -yes; Pershings-no. Germany surrendered to its enemies at the were heavy and prolonged and still continue ler's spirit to be alive, that needs to morally end ofWorld War II. Many people died in that to this day. Germans do not want any nuclear persuade Germans to begin to accept and ]urgen Brauer is an economics graduate war; many German people died, among them or chemical weapons stationed in their actively wish for more and more American student and is a regular Viewpoint colum­Hitler himself and some of his cohorts whose country. military intervention on German soil to honor nist. 



P.O. Box Q l 
One cannot rationalize the Jewish Holocaust 
Dear Editor: 
Dave Kroeger's article "Caricature of Ger­
mans Also Must Be Forgotten" was marred by 
generalizations and rash, insensitive state­
ments. I could not believe the smugness with 
which he dismissed the claims of contem­
poraryJews, nor could I understand his vision 
of history. 
The Nazis, Kroeger tells us, are untainted; 
they are "no less deserving of respect than 
those who fought for the 'right' side." 
Kroeger, I am glad you are not writing my his­
tory books because your moral relativism is 
absurd. You deny the Jews what you call the 
"psuedo-worship of the formerly per­
secuted," but you are willing to pretend that 
Nazi war veterans can now be heralded as 
good soldiers, decent people. 
But you are guilty of a larger offense in my 
mind. You seem to think that the whole thing 
can be rationalized, wrapped up in a logical 
shell and placed "in the ftame ofhistorical jus­
tification." "Holocausts are a dime a dozen," 
you claim; let us not get stuck on this one. 
This is precisely what theJews fear, that the 
rational historian will somehow explain the 
Holocaust. They are convinced that if the ra­
tional mind were to try to make sense of the 
Holocaust, it would meet only insanity. They 
believe that neither distance from the horrors 
nor the mundaneness of the horrors will ever 
make them more acceptable. 
And, indeed, if "holocausts are a dime a 
dozen," perhaps it is because the rational 
mind has already begun to justify the 
Holocaust, learning nothing in the process. 
"I can understand the bitterness that Wiesel must feel after enduring two concentration camps," you tell us, "but the Jewish people have no monopoly on suffering." I am, however, fully convinced that you cannot "understand" the feeling of those who have survived concentration camps. If you had even bothered to listen to Wiesel, you would know that bitterness is not what he preaches. Read Wiesel one day, and you will find not a whiner as you claim but someone with an amazing sense of hope. For Wiesel, to forget the hatred or the suffering of the Holocaust is to complete Hitler's work. To remember is to say "never again." 
TheJews, you must understand, have never claimed to have a monopoly on suffering. They have insisted, however, that no one should ever have to suffer as they did. 
jim Nelson Notre Dame 

Reasons should be clear in Pettifer columns 
Dear Editor: 

Our lunch was recently disturbed, and as a result, we almost regurgitated tuna tetrazini on the girls from Badin sitting next to us. 
Ann Pettifer has struck again and has writ­ten yet another perplexing column. After we sifted through those big, long words Pettifer likes to use (we had to look up five definitions to find out what "curmudgeonly" means), we uncovered a very nice article about her friend, G, and his family. However, as the article reached its last two paragraphs, Pettifer decided to point out yet another corrupt in­stitution at Notre Dame, ROTC. 
Please, Pettifer, if you choose to condemn ROTC, why not list some reasons other than saying you "worry a lot about military recidivism." We looked up "recidivism," too, and it is not a nice word. We would rather have you pelt us with rocks and garbage. 
Perhaps, there seems to be little breathing room for "oddballs and characters," but do not put the blame on the military. Those "uniforms strutting around," as you so poig­nantly put it, are devoting their lives to our country, so that the right to freedom ofspeech might be protected for oddballs, characters 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer 1s the independent newpaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majonty of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty. and the free expression of varymg opin1ons on campus. through letters. 1s encouraged 
and even you, Pettifer. The military's purpose is to defend a form of government which al­lows you to express your opinion and permits us to present ours. 
jim Glenister 
Steve Walker 
Alumni Hall 


MTV made concert feel like publicity stunt 
Dear Editor: 
Now that the MS drive is officially over and Tommy Shaw has done the concert, I feel the need to express my views. The dispute over exactly what MTV promised can go on forever but what is done is done. I can only hope future drives are not marred by controversy. Although Shaw is not a top-five act or the "hottest" act around, he did indeed perform a benefit concert at which all who attended ap­peared to have a good time. For this alone Notre Dame should thank him. He may not be top five, but his musical talent is among the best, as demonstrated in his performance of several old Styx tunes which he composed. 
The concert itself went well, but once again MTV managed to screw some of it up. For those of you who did not attend the con­cert, MTV lit the fieldhouse with white spot lights for filming purposes, thus severely taking away from the light show that accom­panied Shaw's music; and during the course of the concert they had a film crew walking around the stage. 
MTV made me feel as if they were gra­ciously allowing all of us to attend their production of a concert that they will air and reap profits from. I know that from MTV's perspective it was all "big business" at work, but I do not feel that they should use charity fund raising drives as publicity stunts that will bring them a profit in the long run. Sure the drive for MS was a success, but did MTV run it for the right reasons? I wonder. Thanks again to Tommy Shaw for his willingness to do a benefit concert and on a job well done. 
ScottKiley Carroll Hall 

Editorial Board 
Ed1tor·m-Ch1ef Managmg Ed1tor News Ed1tor News Ed1tor Samt Mary"s Execut1ve Editor Sports Ed1tor Accent Ed1tor Viewpoint Ed1tor Photography Edilor Copy Ch1et 
Sarah E. Hamilton Amy Stephan . . Ke1th Harrison Jr Dan McCullough Theresa Guarrno Jeff Blumb . Mary Healy Joe Murphy Peter C. Laches Frank L1p0 

Food service policy should not be of greed 
Dear Editor: 
Recently, I had the unfortunate experience oflosing my ID for a short period oftime. I did not realize this until going to dinner at the South Dining Hall on April 3. I was sent by the checker to a girl who would issue me a meal charge authorization. I explained my situation and filled out a form. The young girl said I could have the S5.25 meal charge taken off of my account if I went to the Registrar's office. 
later, after finding my ID, I did go to the Registrar's office. They sent me to the base­ment of the South Dining Hall, where I was told nothing could be done. Even though the girl had given me false information concern­ing a refund, they said I still could not get the refund. Ifshe had not told me of the refund, I would have not eaten at the South Dining Hall that night. I would have spent a lot less money somewhere else for a good meal. I do feel I am in line for a refund. 
Why must Notre Dame Food Services' policy be one ofgreed? I paid for that meal. In fact, I pay for a lot more meals than I go to every week. I should have the right to obtain a reduced number of meals even if I live on campus. Making students pay for the large number of meals they do not use is not right. And making them pay such a high price is also ludicrous; especially when your generosity of Sl for the Wednesday lunch fast is con­sidered. 
Please try to see this issue from my side. Ot· her University services are also ripping off students, such as the laundry. Why double our laundry allowance? Just so most people will not use it all and St. Michael's can make a clear profit. The one thing I have learned at Notre Dame in three years is that everything costs money -lots ofit. Why not try to reverse this situation? A refund from the dining hall would be greatly appreciated, as well as a surprise. 
Michael Smith Howard Hall 


Department Managers 
Busmess Manager. Dav1d Stepnen1tch Advertising Manager Anne Cull1gan Controller . B1il H1ghducneck Systems Manager Mark B Johnson Producr1on Manager John A. Menne II 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Accent 
What's my line? 
r ND's is 'thank you' 
I" 
r 
r Margaret McCabe 
r assistant features editor 
I 
n many ways, Notre Dame runs like a 
well-oiled machine. We often take this for r granted but what's worse is we take the people· the mechanics, if you will, those
r 
who make the machine run · for granted.
r 
It's possibk to go through an entire day
r 
and not even look at the face that put the
r 
extra helping on your plate · or to think
r 
about the appt:arance of the campus and
r 
wonder who made spring look hetter than
r 
t•ver at Notrt.' Dame. 
r 
The Community for the Lay Apostulate
r 
r 
r 
r 
,.. 
r 
recognizes the injustice. According to Mike Lochead, a member ofCILA, "Workers do a great deal around here and it goes unnoticed by students. Seeing as the year is coming to a close we just wanted to say 'thanks' to all of them." In an attempt to do this, the group has sent out 2,000 thank you letters to all non· managerial workers. 
It may be a good feeling to actually be able to t(>eus in on a few faces in that sea of individuals on campus that help set a back· drop for our everyday lives. Saying hello and even calling them by name may not only give you a sense ofbeing at home, but may give workers the invaluable feeling ofbt:ing appreciated. 

r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 

Eugenia Krysczuk  
Ifany one could tell you about some of the  
changes in University Food Services over the  
r  last few decades, it's Eugenia Kryszczuk a  
r  worker there t(Jr 27 years and still serving it  
r  up in the north dining hall.  
r  Kryszczuk began working at Notre Dame  
r  nine years after she arrived in America from  
r  Poland. At that time, in II.JSH, she worked 4H  
r  hours a wet•k at the l!niversity for whopping  
r  wage of H2 t-ents an hour. The wages have  
r  increast·d and the hours are reduced but  
r  Kryszczuk's reason for enjoying her work has  
r  not changed, "I like young kids," she says.  
r  


r Ruben Gonzales and 
r 
Gerry Mascorro 
Two of the IH who work on the grounds maintenance crew for the University. Their duties include every thing from snow 
~ removal and filling pot holes to weeding and 
~ 
mowing lawns. 
r 
Both Gonzales and Mascorro are originally
r 
from Texas. Gonzales, who has worked with 
r 
ground maintenance for I 0 years, has been familiar with Notre Dame since he had his Kryszczuk gets to know the regulars to her line. They probably know her best for the extra SO cents she says they must pay if they want to have an extra helping ofspaghetti, or tuna on a roll instead ofwhite bread. 
"I remember when the boys couldn't eat in the dining room without neckties," says Kryszczuk, "now they wear practically nothing." The 27·year Food Services veteran admits that she preferred things when they were more strict. 
This month will be Kryszczuk's last as a regular worker at Notre Dame as she has decided, "it's time to stop now." Kryszczuk will be asked to come back and work on days when she's needed. 

first job at the age of 16 working at the old 
field house. Mascorro has worked at Notre 
Dame for seven years. 

Because there are only 18 of them, all grounds crew members must know how to perform all duties. However, some are trained in special areas. For instance · Gonzales has been trained in tree spraying and Mascorro recently was trained in tree trimming. 
The two seem to agree that the best part of the job is driving the red Torros; the worst part is raking leaves! 
Paul Mahoney 
If Paul Mahoney is a familiar face, then good for you. 
Mahoney has been a monitor at the Memorial Library for three years. Anyone who enters the 'brar on your average week day will recognize Mahoney as the person who peeks inside backpacks or tote bags as you exit · just to make sure borrowed books have been checked out properly. 

If you've been wondering if the monitors ever see strange things among students' possessions, according to Mahoney, "a very large eggplant," is about as strange as it's gotten. A runner up was a can ofbeans Mahoney once saw in a backpack· perhaps camping out at the library can be a literal thing. 
Mahoney enjoys his work at Notre Dame for two important reasons: "the beautiful campus and the nice attitudes of the stu· dents." 


.... 
Wednesday, May 1, 1985-page 8-page 9 
Claudine Hoorinks 
If you frequent the south dining hall, you may already be familiar with the friendly head checker, Claudine Hoorinks. 
Although she has had the position for just under a year, Hoorinks makes no bones about it, "I love my job." She also makes herself perfectly clear as to why she's happy where she is-it's the people. "I love 'em dearly," 
Photos by Carol Gales 
Hoorinks says ofnot only the students she works with but the students who pass by her table everyday. "I like to see all the different types ofpersonalities -some are grouchy, some are friendly-it keeps things interest­ing." 
Hoorinks' duties include charging meals when students have no meal plan or when they have lost their I.D.s. She'll also hold onto lost I.D.s when students have temporarily lost them. 
Jan Urbanski 
If you knowJan Urbanski on sight, hope­fully it's because you work at the infirmary and havn't been under the weather yourself. 
As of May 7, Urbanski will have worked as a staff nurse at the infirmary on campus for 14 years. She is a graduate ofSaint Mary's bac­helor program and worked on her masters while she worked in Germany as a flight nurse for the Air Force. 
-
' 

Now, Urbanski likes working with stu­dents, "I like this age group, it makes your life young; it makes me feel young." She adds that while students may be impatient patients, "you can't blame them because everyone is on such a tight schedule." 
One of the rewards that Urbanski finds in dealing with students is that, "ifyou make them feel better they treat you like a miracle woman." 
Ron Lutz 

Ron Lutz has been working at University Hairstylists since September of 1979. Since that time, Lutz explains, "male students are requesting shorter, more conservative styles . .. even ROTC cuts have become more conservative... females are going for a more professional look that's easier to maintain." 
The current trends don't effect Lutz as much as the customers do, "Clientele has a lot to do with how you like your job," and adds, as a credit to his clientele, "I wouldn't want to work anyplace else." 
Just as the swallows 
return to Capistrano 
AndySaal
features staff writer 

T
hey're back! Every day, more and more ofthem crowd the campus. They wander around Notre Dame and ask questions like "Where's the bookstore?" Who are these strange people who have once again cluttered the sidewalks and bookstore now that warm weather has returned? It's springtime in South Bend, and like the swallows return to Capistrano, the tourists are flocking to Notre Dame. 
Tourists are easy to spot. One giveaway sign is, ofcourse, their cameras. Standing with their mouths agape, they stare at the sights, and photograph every building they happen to see. In fact, they take pictures ofeverything: every quad, every lake, every squirrel, every duck, etc. 
Unfortunately, all of this tourist photography has caused the campus to become over-exposed. Face it, there are no more original photos left to take at Notre Dame. Every possible building and scenic spot has been photographed from every possible angle. 
Even abstract combinations of the library and Sacred Heart already have been done. God knows, every possible square inch ofthe dome has been recorded in pictures for all posterity. More dollars have been spent developing photos of the dome than were spent building it. 
Imagine, if the university were to somehow illegalize tourist photography... 
Ifphotography was to be restricted, the tourists could be forced to purchase pre-shot rolls offilm to take home to develop. Or, the bookstore could just sell actual photographs to tourists at reasonable prices. 
A professional photographer would have to be hired to print thousands ofthe "standard" tourist pictures. These could then be packaged in sets of twenty or so in little blue and gold Fotomat envelopes. The tourists could then purchase a photo set like he had just developed the pictures himself. 
In order to generate a sense ofrealism, the bookstore would have to offer tourists their choice ofprints: black and white, disc, slides, 35mm, or instamatic. Each photo set would also need to have that 1-took-it-myself appearance. A few shots in each set would be slightly out offocus, off-center, or a picture ofthe inside of the lens cap. 
And of course, a half-dozen groupshots would be Included. AU sorts ofunfamiliar people would be posing in front offamous campus buildings. But it won't matter if the people are unfamiliar, because no ever looks at the people, just the backgrounds. And what would a set ofpictures be without at least one photo of indistinguishable shadows in a dark room and a hand-held self portrait of the photographer? 
So if the university were to outlaw tourist photography and sell pre-made pictures instead, an incredible amount ofmoney could be generated. Just think of all the possible benevolent uses ofthat money; student scholarships, financial aid, remodelling the student center... why, it could even be used to pay for all of the sod that they will be putting in for graduation! But most importantly, outlawing tourist photography would end the dreadful lack ofcreativity which plagues photo albums all over the world. 
Lutz has the unique privilege of seeing some individual students on a somewhat regular basis over the course of four years, "I get to watch the students as they go from freshman to senior year." Lutz may give a freshman his first perm, as was the case with Kelly Trepuka, and not even realize that the student will rise to great heights of fame before he graduates. 
Students are not the only ones who take advantage of the convenience of the full­service facility. Lutz has the opportunity to work with alumni as well as faculty members and their children. 
... 
.... 
-
I 

Sports Briefs 
The marketing club golf tournament will be held today. Any interested members should sign up for tee times in Hayes Healy room 255 and pay a $3 greens fee anytime before 1 p.m. The tournament will begin at I :30 p.m., and prizes will be awarded afterward at a cookout.-The Obseroer 
The ND Rugby Club will hold elections for next year's officers tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. on the second floor of LaFortune. All club members should vote. -The Obseroer 
The Senior 5K Run was held last weekend. Mike Podrasky won the race in 17:46, followed by Rob Guilday in 17:53. Colleen Cain won the women's division in 21:38, and Ruth Ann Kaiser was second in 22:19. -The Obseroer 
Wednesday, May 1, 1985-page 10 
The ND Rowing Club will hold its annual awards banquet on Saturday. All members who wish to attend should give $5 toJoe B. in 240 Howard or MCD at Saint Mary's by tomorrow For more information, call Joe a' 283-2526.-The Obseroer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs should be written on the forms provided at the office, and the name and phone number ofthe person submitting them must be included. -The Obseroer 
A cricket matchwill be sponsored by the International Students Organization on Saturday at noon on Stepan Fields. The game once again will feature India against "The Rest ofthe World." Any interested players should contact Winston Griffin. -The Obser­ver 
Derby horses get ready 
Associated Press 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Trainer Roger Laurin compares Kentucky Derby favorite Chiefs Crown with a hot crapshooter, "Once he makes the lead, he doesn't want to give up the dice," said Laurin. 
Star Crown Stable's Chiefs Crown goes into Saturday's I II th Derby with the most impressive creden­tials -nine victories in 12 starts and earnings of S 1.2 million -and is regarded as the horse to beat by vir­tually every trainer. 
Laurin, 49, a son of Lucien Laurin who won consecutive Derbys with Riva Ridge and Secretariat ( 1972­73 ), has been low-key in his remarks about his colt. 
Tbt' Obsert•er Nolrt· Damr oftkr. locarnl on the rhinJ floor of l.al'orrune Student Center. an.:.-pb classified advrrrising from I) a.m. until 'I p m.. ,\1ondav through friday The Obsert•er Saini Man··, offitT. i<>t"aled on tht· third floor of Haggar Coll.-ge Crntt·r. accepts classifit·ds from 12:.~0 p.m. until ~ p m. ,\1on· day though Fnda) lkadhne for nt·xt-<la\ tlassofinls " 5 p.m. All cla"tfit·ds must he prepaid. either in pt·rson or hy mail Charge is I 0 cents pn fin· charac·
Classifieds 
t.-rs .:r da · 

LOST: A green Comparative Government  FOR SALE Panasonic lune-box, cheap!  HELP!I I AM IN DIRE NEED OF ONE  What is the airspeed velocity of an un­ 
NOTICES  notebook and a red PotitiC81 Theory notebook. They both have my name,  WANTED  Call2250  MORE GRADUATION TICKET!!! PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T  laden swallow?  
dorm. and room number in them. If found,  HAVE SWEET DREAMS' 2 TWIN BEDS  COME THROUGH WITH THIS DEAL!!  Patio Partyi!!Tosladas, Rice, Beans and  
contact John Kilcran in Sarin Hall, room  FOR SALE CALL 277-4872  PLEASE HELP OUT A POOR FELLOW  Bread. Center for Social Concerns. May  
335. My number is 2t96.  SENIOR, AND CALL JEFF AT 3859.  2. 11 :30-t :30. Benefits St. Stephan's  
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-811117  RIDE NEEDED TO THE PITISBURGH  FOR SALE: Post Office Jeep, '69, $150,  Parish.  
To lhe person who thought thai it would  AREA ON MAY 2 or 3. CALL JIM AT  CALL JOHN 234-9580  RETAIL FURNITURE SALES Part t1me,  
WORDPROCESSING-2n~5.  be cute to remove the set of keys from the  1930.  flexible hours. lmmed. openings. call  Benefit Lunch  
security vehicle on St. Marys campus  Car top luggage carrier, 30" x 40". Fils  Chris Pedevilla 259-0007 t 0-BPM The  Cenler for Social Concerns  
TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30  friday night, the joke was taken very  N...:t Tick... For Gl8du8tlon  most cars $40. 232-5646.  Furniture Gallery, Misha.  Tostadas, Rice, Beans and Beverages  
seriously. II you have any inlormation,  PI-C.ll M8181283-3716  11:30-1:30  
Wordpr~ng •nd Typing  please call 239-6334 or 232-9332  FOR SALE: COMPLETELY  THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR BLESS­ May2  
272-8827  evemngs. NO QUESTIONS ASKED ..  REMODELED 2-BEDROOM HOUSE 1  INGS RECEIVED  
ONE-BDRM. SUMMER SUIILET  Mile from C.mpu•. Gr..tlor 18X lnv•t­ 
LOST: Levi's j8cket at the ACC Saturday  NEEDED. CALL 3t3-764-8979 AFTER 6  ment. Land contr•ct •v•llltble. C.lf  FCE  Rain or Shine  
PRO-TYPE Over 14 yrs. expenence  night while watching Tommy Shaw make  P.M.  •ller6 p.m. tor•ppt. 287-4107  FCE  Patio Lunch,Cenler lor Social Concerns  
typing student papers, resumes. and dis­ a video. II found please call Colleen 284­ FCE  Thurs. May2  
sertations 2n-5833.  4034.  USED BIKE. Why keep hauling it around if  SANYO 33'x18'x17' FRIDGE LIKE NEW!  FCE  11:3Q-1 :30  
you never use it? 239-6426 Ask lor Flavia.  CHRIS 284-5161  RETURN YOUR FCE  T ostadas and more  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL  LOST: add-a-bead NECKLACE at picnic  TODAYIII  
MRS. COKI!R, 233-7008.  on thunsday. II found call 284­5421  (TO HALL PRES. THANKS!! )  
GOVERNMENT HOME from $1 (U ,_lr). Al80 delinquent tall property. C.H 1105-687-eooo Ext. GH-11834 lor ln­loriiUIIIon. FRESHMAN ORIENTATION!!! MANOA sAY MEETING TONIGHT WEDNES­DAY, MAY 1. 7:00 NEW ORLEANS ROOM, LA FORTUNE. ALL COMMIT­TEE MEMBERS MUST ATIEND. Be SINlrt' Beat the rush! Sell your books tor $$. Booka bought M-F Pandora's Books, 937 South Bend Ave (1 block from Corby's).  Thankyou!!!Reward!1 LOST: royal blue back pack has 3 notebooks and 2 books. Last seen in the South 01ning Hall on Frid8y the 26. PLEASE return it I need il for finals. Trav 2729 It has happened. Crime has struck allhe very soul of my existence. Does a rust colored, while-walled-ballon-tired beauty sound lamiliar? My best friend rode through lwo South Bend Winters with me. It laithfully served me in rain. sleet, and snow. My bike was only happy when it  '84 NO grad needs ROOMMATE lor 2 bdrm apt in Birmingham, MI. Call 272­861711 relocating in Detroit area. NEED GRAD TIX, WILL PAY$$$, JOHN 234-9580 I -• C8rl Summer employment necessitates my buying a car. If you have an inexpensive car that you don't want to drive all the way home, let me know. Call Dan at 1625. Thanks. ad Need 1 male roommate for campus view Apta over summer, $170.00 each call John at 277-0809.  TICKETS Mom and dad disown you? Your good fortune. Sell me 1 or 2 grad. tickets. Jeff 277-4619 BIG BUCKS FOR GRADUATION TICK­ETS!!! CALL MARK AT 232-5645 TWO GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED IN A BAD WAY JOHN 277-0607  Attention 811 tutor• 8nd C8pl8in• of NSHP. Annu•l oprlng picnic 18 thll Sund8y from 2 to 4 p.m. •t St8p•n Center. Free food-Free drink! BE THEREI All Single Albums ond Topes 6.50orles.s TDK SA60'8 Sfor$6.50 While they last Only at Rock du Lac First floor LaFortune  DO YOU LIKE CHICS AND MONEY SMC Orientation seeks domers to aaa1st in the moving of 500 SMC freshman into their halls. Benefits are many. Interested? Conlaet ~arol at 4339 or 4352 (SMC) dave, gary, kevin· the best future dr's in town· now that meats are over it's miller lime! love, Cill  
ATIENTION ATIENTION All geographi­C81 clubs and 1ndiv1dualll planning a baggage !rUck to lh81r respective areas musl fill out an 8PPiication as soon as pos­Sible. Available at SAB office 1st fir LaFortune. LOST/FOUND  was being ridden: to SMC, to the Dome, to the 'brar, we went everywhere logether. Please pause with me. and reflect on this greatloss. To the individuals who stole my bike: t. don't ride the handlabara,the frame cracked twice doing that 2. keep the tires between 3Q-35 psi 3. oil the chain faithfully To my bike: we'll catch up with each other sooner or later. Signed, Some Oriental Guy  Summer hou•lng n...:t8d Two guys still need somewhere to live this summer. If you have someplace cheap to rent call Danai 7625. Need a ride East AFTER GRADUATION? Pbgh, Breezewood, D.C. Call Kathleen 21n NEED MALE ROOMMATE NEXT YEAR AT HICKORY VILLAGE APTS. CALL  need 3 tickets lor grad. call John 3681. NEED GRADUATION TICKETS PLEASE CALL PAUL OR JEFF ANYTIME AT 232-4525. GRAD TIX WANTED. NEED 3. PLEASE HELP OUT IF YOU CAN. CALL234-73t9 PRINCE AND THE REVOLUTION wont  CALIFORNIANS! If anyone can help get some of my stuff home to mid or North. Calif., or wants to co-rent transportation there, I may be able to pay a little more than the usual. Call Mike at 1004. I NEED GRADUATION TIX!!! Any extra call Sheila 234-7319. CONNECTICUT STUDENTS: Don't tor­ ATIENTION: TED BENNETI I MET YOU AT A PARTY AND I THINK YOU'RE AWSOME A CALIFORNIA GIRL LAST CHANCE to Hnd Hnllmenl8 through THE OBSERVER C....lll­1• Frld8y M•y 3, by 3:00pm for th811MI l..u• (118y 6) of the 1984-85 OBSER­VER or by Thui8CI8y 118y 16, lor the M•y 17 GRADUATION ISSUEII  
LOST: ONE EDDIE BAUER JAC-SAC, BURGUNDY COLOR. LOST ON 4/24 AT EITHER WASHINGTON HALL OR 1t6 O'SHAG. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL CLIFFORD AT 1436. THANK YOU!  Will the p.,..,n who "borr..-" the lrl8h p18nter from the HCt'el8ry'8 dMk In 356 O'Sh8ij, pi•H return 11-no qu8ellon• ••k8d. II -• • gill from •nother O'Sh811 ...,.....ry HVer•l Y•I88IIO·  MARK AT 272-6298. Need person(s) to drive U-HAUL to Den­ver before or after GRADUATION All ex­penses paid plus BONUS. CALL MARK AT 234-1253. HELPIROOMMATE NEE[IEDI  be at my graduation but my family will! And lhey need 1 or 2 tickets. Call Bob M. at3192 if u will. HELP!! I'M GETIING DESPERATE SENIORS!! I NEED ONE MORE GRADUATION TICKET!! WILLING TO PAY TOP DOLLARS FOR THIS  gel BAGGAGE TRUCK sign-ups this Wednesday, May 1. Times are 7-8:t5 at La Fortune, and 8:30-9pm in Lemans lobby. Must pay in FULL at sign-ups. HELP!!!! MY MOM JUST HAD SEX­ My S.Pea-"Malh" talks, small "pools", breakfast--Everything IS great with you! Looking forward to beyond 5/19 with you II need you. Your H LBB Cathy, our illuslrious V.P. Whose last name begins with a "0" Once went on vacation Met who with elation? Hint: A  
LOST· gold ring with blue atone in South  LOOKING FOR FEMALE TO SHARE 2  TICKET!! PLEASE CALL JEFF AT 3859!  TUPLETS AND THEY ALL WANT TO GO  Rhodes Scholar was he.  
Dining Hall on Tues. 4/23. II you found It, please C811 Liz t992 Thanks LOST TWO WEEKS AGO FRIDAY AT  IF YOU TOOK A PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING BY ACCIDENT FROM F­LINE IN NORTH DINING HALL ON TUESDAY APRIL 30 BETWEEN t2:30  BDRM APRTMT IN NW CHICAGO SUB­URBS:SCHAUMBURG,MT PROSPECT,ARUNGTON HGTS.ACCESS TO 1rOL­ YOU WON'T REGRET HELPING A FEL­LOW SENIOR I THANKS!!  TO GRADUATION!!!!! IF YOU HAVE AN­NNNNYYY EXTRA TICKETS PLEASE CALL TIM (1t08) or LISA (2775) GRIF­FIN... My Mom will be very thankful.  To Squeaky, Here's your stupid personal,  
STEPAN CENTER DURING THE JAZZ FEST-A BRACELET WITH A SILVER SETIING. IF FOUND, CALL LINDA AT 4215 LOST: One (t) Phyaice 128 book. Ac­Cidentally(?) taken lrom South Dining Hall during lunch on 4/29. In order to stay at NO I need to get at least a ·o· In the claaa and I need the book loatudyforfinals. Call Kevin at 2t 03 or put it back where you  AND t:OO, I REALLYNEEDTHATBOOK FOR A FINAL YOU CAN HAVE IT AFTER. CALL KIM AT 4205 NO QUES­TIONS ASKED, REALLY LOST: BRASS KEY RING MONDAY NIGHT, APRIL 29, AT SENIOR BAR. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL ANN AT 284­4438.  LWAYS.STARTING IN JUNE. CALL AN­GEL 1273 ASAPII HELP NEEDED AT SUPER SALE. GOOD PAY, THIS FRI.-SUN. APt=:LY GATE 3, A.C. C. 8:30 FRI. MORNING Responsible person who is handy at home repa1r is seeking a house sitting job for 6 months to a year. Employed at Neighborhood Housing Services. Good  NEED 5 GRAD TIX, PLEASE !I CALL KAREN AT 277-6740. I NEED GRAD TIX CALL WOZZ 1812 OR 3224 HELP!!! NEED FIVE (5!) GRAD TIX OR RENTS WILL MAKE ME STAY IN SOUTH BENO..CALL KEVIN AT 2872290  Why do we keep getting In 80 rnatny light•? Thank You Saint Jude!! CLASSOF'87 PICNIC!! Friday. May 3rd 4:30-6:30 Green Field  are you happy now?,Love Pugsy Bear To Llu Orchen, a whote year is too long to have to wait to get a Personal, so here it is! Have a good summer and good luck on finals! A fellow Observerite. Hi Margret! Found any spaghetti in your milk lately? FRANKIE (alias: 4-skin, burnt worm)  
found it. Thanks  references. Call David 233-8335.  It's too bad they had a hatchet when they  
I need my keya ... lloet them ..turd8y bel­ween Galvin and Keenan. There is a Cadeucia (medical symbol) on the chain. II you found them please C811 Glenn at 272-1869.  FOR RENT FOA AEN;:;··aRA'DtiATE··sruoeN:rs ONLY 2-Bedroom HouH 1 mile from  NEED RIDE TO ATLANTA! Can leave after 5/t3. Will share ex­penses. Call Andrea ><3880. ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE N.D.  DERANGED PSYCHOPATH WILLING TO SWAP COVETED COLLECTION OF ODD $HARP POINTY OBJECT$ FOR GRAD TIX. CALL PAUL ]232-6697 TO SET UP$ALE.  CLASS OF '87 Mass at the GrottO May 5th, 7 P.M. B.Y.O.B. (Blanket)  put lhe fire out. It was our mistake.. M&J "FOOL. HYPOCRITE, VILUAN-MAN!"  
LOST:IN SOUTH DINING HALL on April 25, a green backpack conl8in 1ng 3 folders, 3 notebooks. an accounling book,  C.mpu•. Complel81y Remocleleci­$350.00/Month C.ll287-4107 at6 p.m. torappt.  APT. FOR '85-'86. COOL ROOMIES. CALL TIM AT 3546. THANX! NEED RIDERS to KANSAS CITY and  I DESPARATELY NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. IF YOU CAN HELP ME PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1236. WIL­LING TO PAY BIG BUCKS.  Be Smart! Beat the rush! Sell your books for $$. Books bought M-F. Pandora's  -LILLO  
a management book, pens, pencils, a C81­culator, 3 pecks of gum, and other impor­ WEST as far as UTAH! Leaving 4/20 call Paul4006  GRADUATION TICKETS? Will pay top  Books. 937 South Bend Ave ( t block from Corby's).  NOW IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO EX­ 
- tant stuff. II you have any info about lhis, think you know where It m1ght be, or just w•nt to llllk, C811 Chris at 3244 or 3243. I realty need th1a stuff tor linala. Thanks.  Chicago one-bedroom apartment to sub­let. Available May I. t 0 minutes by bus from loop. 088lrable neighborhood. Vinl8ge building with elevator. Mo (312) 348-2418 AM or PM.  BIKES BIKES BIKES.. IF YOUR LOOKING TO SELL ONE, I'M LOOKING TO BUY ONE. ANY BIKE. ANY CONDI­TION. CALL EO 18t8  dollar' Call Nancy x4225 NEED GRAD TIX WILL PAYS$$ CALL4510  HAPPY 20TH CHRIS HAAS! (Please celebrate OUTSIDE the 'brar!) Love your tavorile Lyons· girls, Maur. Cath, Tricia. Kath, and Lin  PERIENCE THE SMC CHAMELEON CLUB! EVEN IF YOU'VE NEVER BEEN BEFORE, YOU DON'T WANT TO MISS TONIGHT! BAWDY IRISH PUB SONGS, SOOTHING IRISH BALLADS · ALL BY  
Loet Keyring woth ""' keys and dorm keys  THE FAMOUS JOHN KENNEDY, AC­ 
on 11. Loet on South Quad Fnd8y after­noon. II found please return to Laura at 323 P.W. or caH 2798. Did you acodentally pick up a green lab  For summer: upper haH of house, 709 E. Riverside, next to Leeper Pari< w/ view of river. We pay $300/mo.. we.ll sublet for $240/mo, util. inc. Call287-4024.  FORSALE ]  I NEED GRAD TIX Call Keith 3540  Happy 21st Birthday EmllyAhernl Don't Iorge! what I promised you lor your present -because I didn'l! Have e great  COMPANIED BY JAN CZOP. SHOW TIME IS FROM 8-IOPM. IT WILL ALL HAPPEN ON THE HCC TERRACE TONIGHT. (IN CHAMELEON ROOM IN CASE OF RAIN)  
book lrom the monitor's desk in the En­ one!  CELEBRATE THE IRISH IN ALL OF US  
girteerlng Student Center? II you did, our  6-UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE, NO­ Love, M.C.  WITH GREEN LEMONADE AND IRISH  
names are on the book and we desperately need it back. Please C811 us-­ Responsible female roommate to share furnished townhouse apt. at Turtle Creek  MEMORIAL AREA. EXCEUENT CONDITION 233-9728 232-4528  PERSONALS  SONGS'  
a three credit course '" nding on 1111 ..re  tor summer and/or 1985-86 school year.  REMEMBER: IRISH GARDENS APPS  ANNIE MOTILICK,  
return.  Call Annette 272-6014 evemnga.  LOFT,VERY STURDY. CALL 2846  FOR STUDENT EMPLOYMENT NEXT  ARNIE GOLLICK,  
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,  YEAR DUE TODAY, MAY 1!  AIMEE GOTILICK,  
LOST: BROWN WALLET between North  ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE N.D.  FOR SALE: CEDAR-LINED STEAMER  CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N.,  ANY WAY YOU SPELL IT IT'S STILL  
Dil'llng Half 8nd L•Fortune. Call Marc at  APT. FOR '85-'86. COOL ROOMIES.  TRUNK, 6t/2 X 2 X 11/2. CALL ADELE,  ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  WOMEN of the Tomb, Thank You/ Love,  YOUR BIRTHDAY! HAVE A GOOD ONE,  
t170.  CALL TIM AT 2546. THANX!  3144.  Pete  LOVE US  


The Observer Sports Special -NFL Draft Wednesday, May 1, 1985-page 11 
Giants make Bavaro their fourth-round choice 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
The Land of the Giants welcomed an unexpected visitor yesterday as Mark Bavaro was tabbed by the New York Giants, a surprise move by some observers. 
It was the consensus of many NFL teams in the draft that linemen and defensive players were needed, and that was where the Giants' interests supposedly were. 
"I knew that the Giants were in­terested in me," said Bavaro, "but I also knew that Seattle needed a tight end, so I didn't know exactly were I'd be. 
"The Giants were one of my first choices to play in the NFL, so I'm happy with that part of it." 
Bavaro was the 16th pick in the fourth round, the lOOth player selected in the draft. 
"That was about were I expected to go," he said. "I thought I would go in the fourth or fifth round." 
Bavaro expects a challenge when he reports to the Giants' rookie camp on Thursday. 
"I know they have a couple of good tight ends in Zeke Mowatt and Tom Mullady," he said. "I can't make any predictions." 
The latest standout at tight end for the Irish is correct when he says he is in for a challenge. Mowatt, a two-year veteran, began as a virtual un­known in the pros, but made a name for himself last season and just missed going to the Pro Bowl. Mul­lady is also firmly entrenched in his backup role, a five-year veteran with the Giants. 
Bavaro, a 6-4, 242-pound Danvers, Mass., native, enjoyed his final year at Notre Dame sweetened with a couple of impressive accolades. He was a first-team pick on the As­sociated Press All-America squad and an honorable mention selection on the United Press International team. 
He led the Irish in receptions last season with 32 and was voted the outstanding offensive player. His big' leap came in the '83 season after Tony Hunter's departure, when he stepped in and assumed the starting role for all 12 games. Bavaro totalled 23 catches, including a 59-yard gain in which he displayed his fine open­field running ability. He also is touted as a fine blocker. 
Bavaro had the opportunity to 
remain at Notre Dame for his final 
year ofeligibility, after sitting out his 
sophomore season with a non­
playing hand injury. But he opted to 
take his chances going the pro route. 
"Knowing what I know now, I 
would've done it (skipped senior 
eligibility) again," Bavaro explained. 
"Even if I wouldn't have gone as high 
I still wanted to go pro. I'm done 

Senior tight endMark Bavaro will have a chance to snareplenty morepasses in Giants Stadium like the one be grabbed here againstAnny in 1983. The Giants made Bavaro their fourth-round draft choice yesterday afternoon, meaning Bavaro will have an opportunity to return to the Meadowlands for his pro career. Theron Roberts bas the story at left. 
with college ball." Bavaro anticipates will continue. home and they're getting better as a 
The Giants had a very good season "I've talked with (Giants' head team." in '84 ( 9-7 in the regular season, coach) Bill Parcells, and I'm happy IfBavaro can break into the Land beating the L.A. Rams in a wild-card to be in this position," Bavaro con­of the Giants in the fall, this "gamer" playoff game but losing to the 49ers cluded. "I also like the Giants be­has the talent to live up to the Notre in the semi-finals), something that cause they play pretty close to my Dame tight end tradition in the NFL. 
head coach Gerry Faust. "Naturally Domer ' To them, it's like saying a we think they should have gone hig­guy's got only one arm," said Paul
Irish Golic, Williams, taken 
her in the draft. I'm sure that some of Zimmerman, who also cover~ pro_
C'Jntinuedfrom page 16 
them are bothered because they football for Sports Illustrated. "This the middle of the second round as didn't go higher, but that just comes is not me talking now, but Notre the Atlanta Falcons came calling on from the ideas they are given by the Dame players have the reputation of 
in lOth round of draft 
the draft's 4<;th selection. Likewise, media." a superior attitude. Consequently, teammate Mike Kelley, projected by scouts think they come into the pros By MARlY BURNS and the current offensive line situa­The Sporting News to be the 
not as hungry as kids from other Sports Writer tion in Cleveland will mean that he 
number-one guard in the draft and a schools." will get a good look. first-rounder, was not chosen until There are quite a few similarities "I'm getting a chance," says Wil­the third-to-last pick of the third Meanwhile, Faust had his own between ex-Notre Dame football liams. "That's all I can ask for. It's up round, when the Houston Oilers ideas on the validity ofsuch remarks. players Mike Golic and Larry Wil­to me to make what I can of it. 
tabbed him. liams. Cleveland's a club that needs some 
Mark Bavaro went pretty much as' "Those kind of comments really Both were counted on heavily by offensive linemen. They have some expected, to the New York Giants bother me," said the fifth-year Irish head coach Gerry Faust to con­older people there, and I'll have a on the fourth round. Bavaro was coach. "I think it should be tribute early on in their careers as good chance. rated the third-best tight end in the rephrased to say that our kids have sophomores. Both were co-captains factor in the disappointing selec­draft by The Sporting News, and the an education, and that the reason ofthe 1984 Fighting Irish team. Both tions of the two players. Williams, forecast had been that he would be they came here was for that educa­were named to Associated Press All­who was projected to go as early as taken in either round three or round tion because they do realize there is America teams after the '83 season. the third round by The Sporting four. life after football. With kids at other Both suffered debilitating injuries in News, played at less than 100 per­
Outside linebacker Mike Golic schools, sometimes all they have is last season's opener at Purdue and, cent for the first half of the season. also went about where it was football, so maybe they are a little as a result, saw reduced playing Golic, meanwhile, was able to start thought he would, as Houston hungrier. But that stuff about a su­time. And both were selected last only six contests in '84 because of
Larry Williams 

selected him with the third pick of perior attitude. . . ahhhh, I don't night in the I Oth round of the Na­the sore shoulder. the 1Oth round. He had been Earlier in the day during ESPN's believe it." tional Football League draft. Golic's selection by the Oilers left projected for rounds 8-10. live coverage of the draft, one com­The 6-5, 257-pound Golic, an an interesting side story to the 
There was a certain amount ofdis­mentator had his own ideas on why Another commentator, Chris Ber­outside linebacker, was picked up whole affair as he will join his appointment in the Notre Dame pro teams seemed to be shying away man, even suggested that the coach­by the Houston Oilers on the third teammate and roommate, Mike Kel­football office late yesterday over from Notre Dame players. ing Notre Dame players were ley (who was drafted earlier in the 
· the fact that some players had not receiving might have something to 
day in the third round), in going to been drafted higher. "The scouts, when they get toget­do with it, a statement Faust later Houston. "I feel bad for the kids," said Irish her, will say things like, 'Well, he's a termed as "bush." Although Golic would seem to 
First-round picks 
l. Buffilfo Bruce Smith DE Virginia Tech l.Atlama Bill Fralic OT Pitt 3. Housron Ray Childress DE TexasA&M 4. Minnes01a Chris Doleman LB Pitt S. Indianapolis Duane Bickett LB Southern Cal 6. Detroit Lomas Brown OT FJorida 
7. Green Bay Ken Rue[tgers OT Southern Cal 
8. Tampa Bay Ron Holmes DE Washington 
9. 
Philadelphia Kevin Allen OT Indiana 

10. 
N.Y.Jf:ts AI Toon WR Wisconsin 


II. Housmn Richard johnson DHB Wisconsin 12. San Dkgo jim Lachey OG Ohio State I3. Cincinnati Eddie Brown WR Miami (Fla.) 
14. Buffalo Derrick Burroughs DHB Memphis State I';. K.ansa~ City Ethan Horton HB North Carolina 
16. San Francisco jerry Rice WR Mississippi Valley St. 17. Dallas Kevin Brooks DE Michigan 18. St. Louis Freddie joe Nunn LB Mississippi 19. N.Y. Giants George Adams RB Kentucky 20. Piusburgh Darryl Sims DE Wisconsin 21.l.A. Ram~ jerry Gray DHB Texas 22. Chicago William Perry DT Clemson 23. LA. Raiders je!osie Hester WR Florida State 24. New Orleans Alvin Toles LB Tennessee 2';. Cincinnati Emanuel King LB Alabama 
26. 
Denver Steve Sewell RB Oklahoma 

27. 
Miami Lorenzo Hampton RB Florida 

28. 
New England Trevor Matich c Brigham Young 


have a decent chance to make the final roster at Houston, which finished last in the AFC Central last year, he would also have been happy to be drafted by the Browns. Golic 
Gann 
continuedfrom page 16 
hails fi;om Willowick, Oh., and his older brother Bob, a Notre Dame m, uut 1m ~..unfidcnt that I'll get a 
graduate, currently plays for the chance to rush the passer. The Fal­
Browns. cons neeu help un the defensive line Williams, a native of Santa Ana, 
-they need someone that can put Cal., will get the chance to play with pressure on the quarterback. I know the elder Golic as well as with fellow I can help them there." 
rookie Bernie Kosar in Cleveland. Williams is considered to be an ef­
Mike Golic 

Insh head coach Gerry Faust wa!> pick ofthe lOth round, on the 255th 
fective blocker, and the Browns will surprised to ~ce that Gann wasn't pick overall. 
need the help in that area to allow picked until the second round, but Williams, meanwhile, was chosen 
their young phenom Kosar to throw he still felt that the future would be four picks later in the 1Oth round by 
the ball. 
bright lor the senior markeuug the Cleveland Browns. Although the In the past, Irish line coach Carl major. "I'm a little ui:oappointed 11l going Selmer has spoken especially well of 
in the lOth round. My (scouting) 

Williams' professional potential. 
·1 tnmk that Mike w1ll tmu Atlanta grades indicated that I'd go a lot hig­is a good place to play," said Faust. her than I did. That was not the case, "Larry's a good drive blocker and "The Falcons have a solid organiza­though. But I'll have a chance to an excellent one-on-one pass tion. so things should work out well make it in Cleveland, so it's a blocker," Selmer has said. "He learns for him." positive situation. well and his versatility makes him a 
The injuries to Williams (ankle) viable pro prospect." 
l.ann tinished Ihird on Iht· Irish m and Golic (shoulder) in the Purdue Both Williams and Golic are tackles last year with 60, whik game may have been a significant viable pro prospects. Although their leading the team with 19 stops be­Browns drafted the 6-6, 276-pound place in the draft means that they hind the line ofscrimmage, 10 sacks, Williams as an offensive guard, they will be underdogs to make the final five fumble recoveries, and three may look at his versatility elsewhere team rosters in Cleveland and Hous­fumbles caused. He started all 11 on the offensive line as well. ton, they both have faced adversity games last season, playing more Although being drafted in the before in their careers and still minutes than any other defensive lOth round was a disappointment managed to win. The two of them player. for Williams, he feels his versatility will again face a similar situation. 

,....__,.....___~-~~------------~~~-~------~~~-~~---~---~-­
The Observer Wednesday, May 1, 1985-page 12 

Saint Mary's catcher janine Adamo, tagging out a Valparaiso runner above, helped the Belles to three victories over the last two days. For more the Belles' fortunes, see Kelly Portolese's story at right. 
Interhall athletics winds to a close with championships 
By FRANK HUEMMER 
Sports Writer 
A.~ the school year wind~ down, 
one finds interhall teams battling it 
out for the final playoff positions. 
Here is the way the playoffs appear 
at this point. 
In interhall lacrosse action, the 
Holy Cross Hogs are the only un­
defeated team through four of the 
five rounds ofplay. The Hogs are one 
game up on Morrissey Manor, which 
is 3-l in the BlueJay Division. In the 
Terrapin Division, Off-Campus and 
Cavanaugh are both 3-l, but Off­
Campus gets the nod based on head­
to-head competition. 
By looking at the rest of the Blue Jay Division, one sees that Carroll and Howard are 2-2, St. Ed's is l-3 and Dillon stands at 0-4. In the Ter­rapin Division, Hanner, Grace and Keenan all trail the leaders by one game, while Zahm checks in at 0-4. 
'lhe first two teams in each divi­sion will make the tournament semi­finals, which will be played tomorrow at 7 and 8 p.m. on Cartier Field. 'Ihe championship game will be played on Sunday under the lights at 8 p.m. also on Cartier Field. 
In open soccer, the championship game is set to be played today at 7 
p.m. on Cartier Field. Holy Cross, the Backs Division champs, will play the Wing Division winners, Awful Law­ful. Holy Cross advanced to the championship game with a l-0 shutout ofZahm, while Awful Lawful driled Missing Faculties, 4-1. 
After the sixth round of women's soccer, Lewis continues to set the pace with a 6-0 record while Badin is following close behind at S-1. Breen­Phillips, sporting a 4-l record, and Pasquerilla West ( 4-2) remain in ex­cellent shape to make the playoffs. Farley ( 2-4 ), Lyons ( 1-4 ), Walsh ( I­
S) and Pasquerilla East ( 0-6) round out the rt·maining teams. 
'Ihe semifinals will be played on Sunday at I p.m. on the Stepan Fields, while the championship will bt.· on Monday at 4:30 p.m., also at Stepan. 
In women's softball, Pasquerilla West holds onto the lead with a 3-0 ren>rd while rival Pasquerilla East remains close with a 3-1 mark. Lewis I ( 3-2 ), Lewis II ( 1-3 ), Breen-Phillips ( 1-2) and Farley ( 0-3) complete the six-tt.·am field. 
Finally, in baseball action, the t1nal two teams arc defending champion Flanncr Hall and Holy Cross HalL Both teams had to out-last their fiesty opponents in order to make the championship game which will be played on 'lhusday at 4:30 p.m. Holy Cross escaped against Stanford A-1, 3-2 in extra innings, while Flan­ner edged Keenan in seven innings by a score of 7-S. 
"The game will be a great matchup," Flanner captain John Vrdolyak said. "Their (Holy Cross) pitchers have been pretty tough but we have played solid defense and have some sticks ofour own." 
Without a doubt, all the cham­pionship games should provide a great amount of excitement to cap offanother successful interhall year. 
been seeded second in a field of In­diana's top eight teams. 
According to head coach Scott Beisel, in the lirst game against Notre Dame, the: Belles may have been looking toward the weekend's action where they open play against Anderson College on Friday. 
"We just were not in that game," said Beisel. 
Overall, Saint Mary's committed four errors as Notre Dame took an early lead when lead-off hitter Mary Arn walked, advanced to second on a passed ball and took third on a sacrifice bunt. Arn was then knocked in by a tlriple for a 1-0 lead. 
The Irish added another run in the top of the third, but the Belles 

SEND A FLOWER FOR $11 
Buy a carnation for a roommate, a friend, or a scope to say 'Goodbye,' 'I'll miss you,' or 'Happy Graduation.' Flowers are being sold during dinner on Tues. and Wed. and will be delivered this Saturday. Don't forget anyone! 
Fundraiser for ND/SMC Right to Life 
Freshman Orientation 
Mandatory meeting for all committee members 
Wednesday, May 1 7:00pm New Orleans Room, LaFortune 
,.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHII..IHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII llllllllllllllt1 
Senior Teresa McGinnis 'went two-for-three for the Belles, collect­ing four RBis. Arn had a single and two RBis for the Irish. Against Bet­hel on Monday, Logsdon also earned the victory, yielding four hits and walking only one.The junior had plenty of help from her teammates, who rapped 17 total hits and sent a season-high 24 runners across the plate. 
Defensively Saint Mary's played perfect ball while their opponents committed six errors. 
Highligting the Belles offensive performance was a three-run homerun by sophomore Sue McCrory, who finished the day two­for-live and collected live RBls. 

WANT A QUICKY? 
Quick tans in our boothes without that sweaty feeling! 
It's never too late to be a bronze God or Goddess 
'IM-H~ 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka UVB boothes & UVA beds 


Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWRENTING FORFALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Ses.,lon) 
Office at 820 NO Ave 
or call 

open Mon-Fri 3-6pm 
234-6647

Sat ll-3pm 
~-----~--------------~-~------------------------------------,


~~~~~~~~~IQQIIAI~IIIQIIQQI~-.. ~---• $ $ave $ $ ~~~~--..-liilliliiiili 
525.00 tO SJ50.00 Off$ave do 
On any Rent-it-Here, Leave-it-There Ryder One Way Truck Rental 
Offer valid only with this coupon. Not valid with other specials.

RYDER 
SOUTH BEND rents trucks to move it yourself LOCATIONS 
1914 Miami St. 2715 North Bendix Dr. 289-6721 
Ryder Truck Rental-One-Way 
AMX 

""'~'~ 277-3550 2627~~~~7~;;oSt. 
. '-• Oii!IIMWIAl .JI//1" 
Senior Katy Boldt knocked in four runs on two singles and a double in three at bats. Trish Nolan delivered a single and a double to gather five 
Because of the ten-run rule, the Belles were able to dispose of the 
In the nightcap, Saint Mary's had a slightly tougher time with their Mis­
The Belles held a 4-2 edge going into the bottom of the sixth, but the Pilots sent two runs across to knot 
With their work cut out for them, the Belles went to work in the top of the seventh and produced five runs. 
Lead-off hitter Barb Theiss got things started with a single and quickly stole second. Sophomore catcherJanine Adamo, who has been a consistent hitter for the Belles all season, then singled to left. The Pilot defense tried to catch Theiss going to third on the play, but committed one offour errors in the inning, and Theiss took home for the go-ahead run. 
Adding two insurance runs was centerfielder McGinnis, who blasted a homerun to deep left field to make the score,7-4. 
"We can't underestimate (Anderson)," commented Beisel. "We'll just take one game at a time and give it our best shot." 
SEE THIS MAP FOR YOUR SAVINGS 
RENT FROM SOUTH BEND TO ANY OF THESE AREAS AND SAVE. 
Offer expires 9-30-8~ 


--~---~-----~­

The Observer Wednesday, May 1, 1985-page 13 
Irish lacrosse team loses a special pair in Shay and Trocchi 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
It all began in a high-school lacrosse game four years ago, this relationship between Notre Dame co-captains Bob Trocchi and Justin Shay. lined up against each other ­Shay on defense, Trocchi on attack ­for a Massacusetts all-star game, the two began a competition that has proved beneficial to both. It is a competition that has lasted even though they now are the two major forces on the Irish lacrosse team. 
"We were playing against each ot­her in this game when he checked me and my glove kind of came off," describes Trocchi of their first meeting. "I caught it by the strings, but it was hanging pretty far off. Well, he got his stick caught in my glove and the ref called him for hol­ding. He couldn't believe it, but I looked at him and said, 'That's a hold.' 
""Ibat's when it all started I guess, because I got to know him after that when we played in some summer leagues. It's been a lot offun." 
The relationship between the two has been a lot more than "fun," though. Shay and Trocchi are now roommates. They paint houses together during the summer, share the cover of the lacrosse media guide, provide Notre Dame with its first two legitimate all-America can­didates and have been the Irish most valuable players over the past two years. They will also leave major holes when they finish their Irish careers this week. 
"Justin and Bob are the first two 
players we've ever had here that 
warrant all-America recognition," 
says their coach, Rich O'Leary. "I'm 
sure that all the coaches we've 
played against feel they're legitimate 
candidates. 
"They're very similar in character. They're both strong and use their size well. Neither is afraid to take any punishment, and both of them lead through the example of their hard work and discipline. 
"And," O'Leary adds, "they kill each other in practice." 
There is an old axiom that says you play as well as you practice, and in this case, nothing could explain the great successes of Trocchi and Shay any better. Trocchi, despite playing only three years for Notre Dame, will graduate as the school's career scoring leader, while Shay will wind up a career that has seen him lead the Irish defense for fouc years. 
"We usually practice against each other which I think really improves our games because neither of us likes to lose to the other," says Troc­chi. "Both ofus have a lot ofpride in our play and, when we're going against each other, we each give 110 percent. He's so good that it's bound to improve my game. I'd say I play harder against him than anybody." 
"We'll almost have fights when we hit each other in practice," adds Shay. "But when practice is over, it's 'where do we go for dinner -North or South.'" 
The hard competition in practice has paid big dividends when the two take the field against a "real" op­ponent. Although they are both naturally intense, they reach an even higher intensity level when dressed in Irish uniforms. And, despite the fact that they play two entirely dif­ferent positions, they somehow stand out among all the other players on the field. 
Trocchi, of course, makes his presence felt mostly by leading the Notre Dame attack. His 30 goals and 25 assists lead the team this season, and the 55 points bring his career to­tal to 139 ( 82 goals and 57 assists), far outdistancing the previous scoring record set by Steve Pearsall in a four-year career. One can only wonder what he could have done if he had played for four years at Notre Dame. 
Instead, he spent his freshman year at the University of Rhode Is­land playing club lacrosse while he waited to hear from Notre Dame about his application for a transfer. When he was accepted, Shay, who was already in South Bend, dis­covered the news long before Troc­
chi was finally told.  
The  year  of  club  lacrosse  
definitely  did  not  help  Trocchi's  
development,  and  he  found  that  

lacrosse on the varsity level, even when the program is as young as Notre Dame's was, was much more difficult than what he had ex­perienced before. 
"When I first came out here, I was still doing stuff that I did in high school," says Trocchi. "I didn't know what it took to play college ball, but now I know what it takes. I know you have to run hard or else the defenseman is going to take the ball away from you." 
Trocchi has been running hard ever since. He may not be the swiftest player on the field, but some weight training and a couple ofyears of growth have made him a much stronger player, one who now draws most of the attention of opposing defenses. 
"This year everybody has geared their defense to stop him," says O'Leary. "He hasn't scored as much as he would on a team with more balanced scoring, but he has a very accurate shot and he's one of the best players on the team at picking up ground balls. 
"But no matter how well he does scoring-wise, nobody tries more. Ot-
FINDING THE PERFECT SPORTS SEDAN IS NO MYSTERY 

It's the Cadillac Cimarron 
A combination of performance, styling and luxur standard features you expect from Cadillac 
":'~,!!"!iiii'!'l'll!i.'I!IIIR!illi!!! 1111~!illil1lllli ~!1\i:.:!f'! ,.~~~ii,.,;;,.~. !!!!Oi!li'''''"'''lll(!)l'li!i~ 
This ad is part of the Notre Dame team's submission in the General Motors Intercollegiate Marketing Program. 

her people see that and respond to 
it." 
The only other player who rivals Trocchi's hard work is Shay, who does not usually get his name in the paper, but who arguably is the most dominating player in most Irish games. Not only does he guard the opponent's top scorer and play a major role on clears, but he also is the player who is looked to to come up with the big play. 
"Justin makes a big impact in every game," says O'Leary. "Teams avoid playing against him because he's so good. There are very few defensemen I've ever seen that have as much impact on the game as he does. He's strong, has very quick hands and has very good accelera­tion, which makes him an outstand­ing stickhandler. He could play anywhere." 
Shay, like Trocchi, has benefited from an increase in size since high school, but, unlike his roommate, he has been playing a major role for the Irish since the beginning ofhis fresh­

man year. Even in that first year, he 
showed that he was in control on 
defense, but the game experience 
has made him a dominating force. 
"I remember freshman year being afraid of playing other attackmen who were a lot stockier and who could push me around," says Shay. "Now it's a matter of pushing them around." 
Size and talent aside, though, the thing that separates Shay from everyone else on the field, even Trocchi, is his intensity and con­centration. 
"He'll play until he drops," says O'Leary, who is not exaggerating very much. "He'll workuntil he can't do it anymore. In one game last year, for instance, he cut his head open and had blood running down his face. The cut was bad enough to get seven stitches, but he didn't want to come out." 
You can bet, too, that Trocchi would have done the same thing ifit had happened to him. After all, he could not let his roommate show him up. 

Photographers==~ ~=========Needed for next year's  
DOME  
If interested, please call by May 6: Photography Editor­283-3314 Dome Office ­239-7524  


The Observer Wednesday, May 1, 1985-page 14 
Gibbons' intensity helps bring wins to tough Notre Dame tennis team 
I 
higan finished in the eighth position, The Irish will travel to Michigan
I while Northwestern finished ninth. State this weekend to try to further
Golf
I 
The Irish golfers faced formidable impress the same 22 teams. opponents on a formidable course -"The outlook is bright because we
t 
continuedfrom page 16 
I Ohio State's course is considered are prepared to play," says 
I Purdue, Indiana and Ball State one of the toughest in the Big I 0. O'Sullivan. "I'm confident that we'll Tht.: t )b:.c:rver/jnhannc:-~ Hal·kcr finished behind Notre Dame in I I th, "It's a magnificent course," says continue our consistent golf and
I 
14th and 16th places, respectively. O'Sullivan. "The NCAA finals were
I Senior Mike Gibbons, shown above in action for the Irish tennis everything will turn out fine for the 
Ohio State hosted the tournament
l team, bas compiled an impressive 70-26 singles record over his played there in '70, '75, and '80." A Irish." 
used home large also to And although this year's Irish golf
I four years with the team. For more on Gibbons, see Mike Carney's and their course gallery added the 
I advantage to finish first, beating pressure for the young Notre Dame team has been one of the most
feature at right.

l Miami of Ohio by a single stroke. team. successful in recent years, there is Michigan State finished third, "We raised some eyebrows at the still much untapped potential on the
I Saint Mary's tennis team 
I followed by Kent State and Illinois. Kepler," says the Irish mentor. squad. When asked about the pos­
I A mere five strokes separated "Other schools are realizing that sibilities for next year, Coach 
I seventh-place Western Michigan there is a new kid on the block, or at O'Sullivan smiled and said, "We're
splits two weekend matches 
I from tenth-place Notre Dame. Mic-least on the leaderboard." only one year away." I 
By LISAJOHNSTON and 5 singles. Caroline Zern was
I 
Sports Writer defeated by Susan Bond, 6-2, 6-7, 0­
I 
6, at No. 4. Renee Yung gave a good
I 
The Saint Marys' tennis team fight, but dropped her match to
I 
moved its record to 5-3 this past Diane Hayes, 6-7, 6-7, playing the
I 
weekend as it split its matches No. 5 match. Zern and Yung doubled against Ohio State and Dennison. up to stomp the No. 2 doubles team 
lbe highlight of the Ohio State of Bond and Hayes, 6-3, 6-3. Beck match, which the Belles lost by a and Kate McDevitt, who won No. 6 score of 8-l, was the victory ofSaint singles against jean Goldstein, 6-4, 6­Mary's No. I singles player Debbie l, combined to win No. 3 doubles, Laveric. 6-4, 6-1, over MacLoed and 
In a close match, Laverie lost the Goldstein. first set to Kris Colglazier, 2-6, but In exhibition matches, IGm Kaegi came back for the win by taking the came back from being down 1-6 in final two sets by identical6-3 scores. the first set to beat IGm Miles, 1-6, 
Saint Mary's fared much better 6-3, 7-6, and Karie Casey defeated against Dennison, winning the Mary Butler, 6-4, 7-5. Kaegi and match, 7-2. Laverie defeated Sue Casey defeated Butler and Breen, 6­Covek, 6-2, 6-2, in the No. l singles 1, 6-2, in exhibition doubles. match. The No. 2 Saint Mary's player, This weekend the Belles travel to Mary Carol Hall, beat Trish O'Bryan Western Michigan University, in by a score of 6-2, 6-2. Laverie and Kalamazoo, where they will meet Hall combined their effort.~ at No. I Central Michigan University, Ohio doubles to beat Covek and O'Bryan, University and Western. The Belles 6-2,4-6,6-3. face Bobcats of Ohio U. at 9 a.m. 
Please call 284-4626 for reservation!,
No. 3 singles player Kristin Beck Saturday, and Central Michigan at 1 defeated Terry MacLoed easily, 6-0, p.m. They will challenge Western at 
and information 
6-I . The two losses came at Nos. 4 9 a.m. on Sunday. 

---_-_----_-------t 

I
Attention Sophomores t t 
t I I 
Place your ring order before you leave for SUMMER VACATION. This will assure you of having it when you 
return to school in the fall. t • HOURS: 1:00 P.M. to 4:30P.M. I Monday -Friday t I 
IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR I 
I 
L HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
_________ ._ __ 
-----------------J 
By MIKE CARNEY 
Sports Writer 
In an up-and-down season for the Notre Dame tennis team, Mike Gib­bons has been a picture of consis­tency. In fact, the 6-3 senior from Miami, Florida has been winning matches for coach Tom Fallon's squad for four years. 
Throughout his career, Gibbons has played the first or second singles as well as doubles. Entering this season, Gibbons had an impressive 70-26 singles record along with a very respectable 53-31 record in doubles. 
Gibbons will get a chance to add to these records today as he will lead the Irish squad as they meet against Eastern Michigan at 3:00 p.m. at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
The most striking aspect of Gib­bons' play is the touch ofhis lobs and groundstrokes. 
"Mike is one of the few college
I 
players who realizes that you don't
I 
have to hit the cover off the ball to
I 
win," notes Fallon. "He moves the ball around well and has great place­ment." 
"Mike is a very tough player and will be hard to replace for next season," says Irish captain Joe Nel­ligan. "He has given the tennis team four great years." 
Perhaps the most important asset of Gibbons' game is his court presence. 
"Mike has the ability to con­centrate totally on the match," com­ments Fallon. "While other players throw rackets and get upset, Mike just takes it all in stride. Nothing seems to faze him. 
"Mike has this knack of knowing how to win. He is a very intense per­son who gets totally absorbed in a tennis match or whatever else he does." 
This intensity has helped Gibbons to become successful in the clas­sroom as well, where he is a Philosophy/Latin major in the Col­lege ofArts and Letters. 
The consistency of Gibbons has become especially important this · year as the Irish have only two returning lettermen: Gibbon~ and Nelligan. Gibbons' experience has helped him to a successful year at the No. 2 singles position, as well as aiding him in his quest for success as part of the No. I doubles team with freshman Dan Walsh. 
Hopefully, Gibbons can keep up his intensity as the Irish head into the final leg of their season. Gibbons will be a key factor if the Irish hope to repeat as Eastern Collegiate Champions. 
Gibbons' hard work has led him to be unanimously named the team's Most Valuable Player. 
"Mike's perfect court attitude has been an excellent example for the younger players and his recognition as Most Valuable Player is well deserved," add~ Fallon. 
Mike Gibbons had indeed con­tributed a great deal .to the tennis team and the University. He will be sorely missed both on and off the Courtney Center tennis courts. 
~~~C3L~________________________________________w ___P_ag•e•l-5
__e_d_n.es_d_a_y,_M_a_y_1_,_1_9_8_5 
Bloom County 
MAPIIM ... I •. HAV6 
A IJI/1e. AN/1 I AM /NJEeCJ Of ANOIJORI 
\ 

Zeto 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
I WIWTliN (J{l(}(( 1HIIT ~Z
NOT JU5T IINYOfl()R 
Wet./.. H€1?e'5 
MIN/l YOV... 81/T liN 
I CI/N 5f!T 1lJ!II1CCO vV!C£ 
II NIC6-· JU5T II
OPOR 1HRr15 ME .I 
/tmJ Wilt.ret?. "WIN"/r10t¥/lllt.e's 
fiNTOf

\
liN OPr:R 111rT ~z 
Bf?.€/lrff ffJCI<eT MOM. FIFTY HOKJe SllleiiT,'·~-==--" I'ttf 111?15 
FUT WH!t.e Cr/1(5/N& 1le" 1HIWKYOU 
~Nfl!NISTIIS 1/Nfl MA:4M.
lllt'£KICAN 
ttii/NHI/NflUN& ".
Mll~E' /!) 
\
''MIIf10NNA" AU.IIT1He 
511M611ME/!r. 

Kevin Walsh 


"Look, just relax, son ... relaaaaaaaax ... 
I'm gonna come over there now and you can just hand me your gun.... Everything's gonna be reeeal cool, son." 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Religious 
group 5 Mountains 9 Businesses 
14 Mormon State 15 TV actor Scott 16 Indian buffalo 17 TV quiz show 
group 19 Cheerful 20 Faction 21 Makes a choice 23 Needlework 
pieces 27 Have -(be kind) 31 Characteris· tics 32 Property 
appraiser 34-avis 35 Charts a 
course 36 Scot. river 37 Star group 41 However for 
short © 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 5/1/85
42 Frightening All Rights Reserved 43 Coagulate 45 Introduce 6 Kind of beam novelties 7 Speedway 47 Has one's say stop-off 49 Untidy 8 Just fair conditions 9 Most remote 50 Drafted one 10 Flowers 52 Tract 11 Genetic code 
54 Bring up letters 55 Maxim 12 Guys 58 Noah's ark 13 Select group 
group 18 Light tune 63 Johnnycakes 22 lt. food 64 Apache State: 23 Ship: abbr. 
abbr. 24 Spider woman 65 Halo of myth 66 Secret meeting 25 Strands 67 Canasta card 26 Excursions 68 Track and 28 Arthurian town 
field group 29 Va. city 30 Make an effort DOWN 33 Boot part 1 Have a late 35 Saucy 
meal 38 Most harsh 2 Gr. letter 39 Tantalize 3 Fire 40 Sweet treat 4 Actor 41 Tiny­5 Endures 44 Half a fly 
Tuesday's Solution 
H0l ••• 
A G SIH A • 
A L E E C A R E T G E N E .D
HUN 
.J_~ RAT A 
D E R S S A L A D I N 

L E v. 

R E T A I LB S T H I E L E N A • E R iJ..J. H E 
AIR S•o 
M E G A N E 

F E R R S R E 
pAy p E 

R U 


ANDII!!IMESAS.DARIN111"0 A l.R EIC E S.
E N L I S T •u M T 

NE_J.AIRIOSO 
A L D A H E A D~~t 0 N G
S E E P E L 
I DIE ARE A T E D D E 
L A L A R D 
5/1/85  
46 Indians  56 June bug  
47 Shoddy  57 Some  
48 Wampum  59 Miscue  
51  Fighter Terrell  60 Regret  
53 Amo, a mas, ­ 61 Anger  
55 Likely  62 Corrode  


Better Prices 
than that "ather stare" an campus 
Campus 
•12 
· 1 p.m. -Lecture&: Slides, "Mexico City's Templo Mayor: Religious and Public Life in the Aztec Period," Prof. Miguel Leon-Portilla, National Autonomous University of Mexico, ETS Theatre, CCE. 

•1:30 
p.m.-Baseball, ND vs. Western Mic· higan, Jake Kline Field. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Twenty Years of Artificial Layered Structures," Dr. John Hilliard, Northwestern University, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. -AFROTC Spring Awards Ceremony, Library Auditorium. 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting, SophomoreAdvisory Coun­cil Organizational Meeting, Little Theatre, LaFortune. 

•7 
p.m.-Wednesday Night FUm Series, "The End of Summer," ETS Theatre, CCE. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30p.m.-FUm, "Star TrekII: The Wrath of Kahn," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by StudentActivities Board, $1.50. 

•7:30 
p.m. -ND Right to Life Chapter Lecture, "Relation of Contraception and 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
6:30p.m.  28 16  Newswatch 28 M"A*S*H  
22  Three's Company  
28  Wheel ofFortune  
7:00p.m.  16  Highway to Heaven  
22  Double Dare  
8:00p.m.  28 16  The Churck Barris Special Facts of Life  
22  Movie ­Boom Boom Mancini  
28  Miss Hollywood Beauty Pageant  

Abortion," Rev. Paul Marks, Human Life Inter· national, Washington, D.C., Library Auditorium. 
•8 
p.m.-StudentVoice Recital, Sarah Brad· ley, Soprano, little Theatre. 

•8 
p.m. -RASTA Meeting, Multi-Purpose Room, Center for Social Concerns. 

•8:
15 p.m. -Concert, The Hilliard Ensemble, Guest Vocal Quartet, AnnenbergAuditorium. 

•10 
p.m. -Toastmasters Meeting, library Circle. 


Dinner Menus Notre Dame Baked Chicken Almandine Veal Marengo Veg Rice Csrle 
Saint Mary's Philadelphia Steak Sandwich Spaghetti w/ Meat Sauce Spinach & Cheese Csrle Baked Pork Chops 
8:30p.m.  16  Sara  
9:00p.m.  16  St. Elsewhere  
10:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
10:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Magnum/Movie  
28  ABC News Nightline  
ll:OOa.m.  28  Love Connection  
11:30a.m.  16  Late Night With David Letterman  
12:30a.m.  16  All In The Family  
l:OOa.m.  22  Nigh !Watch  


THE S.A.B. 'LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT' presents: 


May1 &2 7:00 

9:15 .. 
MOrCh of Dimes 
-llliiBIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATIONIIIIIIilllllil 
I 
11:30

Schaal supplies * Health & Beauty needs 
Engineering Auditorium 
2nd Flaar LaFortune Open Man-Fri, 31 -7 p.m 



Wednesday, May 1, 1985-page 16 
Five Notre Dame seniors drafted by NFL clubs 
.. 
Golf team fares well over weekend 
By SEAN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 

'!be Notre Dame golf team earned the respect ofa strong 22­team field last week by finishing I Oth in the Kepler Invitational in Columbus. Ohio. The Irish gol­fers will face the same 22 teams this weekend when they travel to Eao;t l.ansing, Michigan for the Northern Intercollegiate Tourna­ment. 
At the Kepler the Irish were led byJohn Anthony, who posted scores of "8, 78 and 76, for a three-round total of 232. An­thony's prowess on the golf course is equaled by his academic ability. He was recently nominated by head coach Noel O'Sullivan for Academic All­American honors, O'Sulivan's first nominee ever. Anthony, a junior accountancy major, managed a 78 stroke average while maintaining a 3. S grade point average. 
''I'm honored to coach a player like John," says O'Sullivan. "He's­a tremendous boost to the Notre Dame golfprogram." 
Freshman Rich Connelly 
finished second for the Irish with a 234 total. After Connelly posted scores of 74 and 75 for his first two rounds, he was tied for eighth place among the 138 gol­fers competing. Connelly's third round score jumped to an 85, however, for a 234 total. 
Junior Lon Huffman finished third for the Irish by shooting roundsof7'i,81 and 79fora237 total. Irish captain John O'Donovan was next with a 241. 
O'Donovan recorded the low round for Notre Dame with a second-round score of73. 
Sophomore Chris Bona and Junior Steve Fuhrer finished fifth and sixth for the Irish, recording three-round totals of 241 and 249, respectively. 
Coach O'Sullivan was confi­dent that his team could handle the pressure of playing in a big tournament such as the Kepler, and his confidence was not un­warranted, as was evident by Notre Dame's tenth-place finish. 
"We beat some of our biggest rivals," said O'Sullivan. "Purdue, Indiana and Ball State are all powerhouse golf schools. This was the first time this year we've been able to handle them." 
see GOLF, page 14 

.. ' ' 
lne Ublcrvcr/tlle Plloco 
FonnerNotre Damedefensive tackleMike Gann, shown abovein a game against Michigan State, was selectea in the secona rouna of the NFL draft by theAtlanta Falcons. For information on Gann ana otherIrish players drafted, see stories to the right. 
Why did Notre Dame players go so low in NFL draft? 
Gann tabbed in second round by Atlanta; expected to help weak Falcon pass rush 
By LARRY BURKE round selection in both lbc Sport­"I want to play in the NFL," said 
AssistantSports Editor ing News and Sports Illustrated, but Gann, whose teammates voted him 
a contract offer made last week by outstanding defensive player last 
It took a little longer than he ex­the Tampa Bay Bandits of the USFL season. "I hope my agent can come 
pected, but Mike Gann was still apparently had some effect on NFL to terms with the Falcons, but the 
satisfied with the way things worked teams' decision whether or not to USFL is stil not totally out of the 
out for him in yesterday's National select him. picture." 
Football League draft. It wao;n't until "I expected to be drafted higher, Gann, a resident of Orlando, Fla., 
noon that Gann got a call from At­but the Tampa Bay situation put me didn't figure that the NFL draft 
lanta Falcons' head coach Dan Hen­in a bad position," admitted Gann, would give him a chance to play so 
ning, informing him that the Falcons who was the first Notre Dame player close to homt:. Sevt:ral NFL teams 
were about to make Gann their picked in the draft. "I got phone calls had contacted him prior to the draft. 
second-round selection in the draft. from the Giants (who had the 19th but the Falcons weren't among 
The 6-5, 256-pound defensive tackle pick), the L.A. Rams (21st pick), and them. 
was Atlanta's second selection in the the Miami Dolphins (27th pick) in "Atlanta wasn't in the picture at all 
draft, the l 7th player chosen in the the first round. They all asked me until now," Gann said. "I really 
second round, and the 45th player about my feelings concerning the didn't think that I'd last past the first 
drafted overall. USFL, and I told them that I wanted round. and Atlanta really needed 
"It sounds like a good situation," to play for the NFL But they knew Fralic so they weren't going to use 
said Gann yesterday afternoon from that I had been down to Tampa Bay their first round pick on me. But 
his Village Terre apartment. "Atlanta four weeks ago, and the fact that I when tht:y chost: in the second 
has a good program, and I'm happy had already received a large offt"r round I was still around, so they 
that I won't have to play against (Pitt had bet"n madt" public, so I guess were happy to get me." 
offensive tackle) Bill Fralic. ( Fralic they weren't convinced. It turned Gann is confident that the Fal­
was the Falcons first-round choice, into a bad situation because I think cons' organization will give him a 
with a pick acquired via a trade with the offer from Tampa Bay caused chance to play, and he sees himself 
Minnestota.) I'm pretty excited NFL teams to shy away from me." fitting in well with the dub's needs. 
about it. Atlanta has good weather, Bandits' owner John Basset had "Last year the Falcons took Ricky 
and it's a good location." made what Gann called "a very good Bryan, a defensive tackle from Ok­
Being selected in the second offer" last w~ek through Gann's lahoma, in the tlrst round and he round came as a surprise to Gann, agent Jack Mills. When Basset made playt:d a lot," noted Gann. ''I'm not who was a second-team lJPI All­the offer public, NFL teams assumed sure right now exactly where I'll fit American and an honorable mention that Gann was leaning toward the AP pick. He was a projected first-Bandits. see GANN, page II 
Kelley chosen by Houston in third round; will get a chance to help at center or guard 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN selected. You've still got to prove what he can do at the center posi­Sports Writer yourself in the fall." tion. After being chosen by the Oilers "I talked to Head Coach Hugh 
After nearly three full rounds had as the second Irish player picked in Campbell," Kelley said, "and I think passed hy in yesterday's National the draft, Kelley seemed pleased I'll get a shot at centt·r. But I don't Football League draft, Notre Dame with the team that selected him. really expect to make a big impact 
center Mike Kelley was tabbed by right away. the Houston Oilers as the 26th selec­"The Oilers are a young team," he "The offensive line positions are tion in the third round. said, "and they're on the way up. I'm 
very hard positions to jump right in Kelley had been projected by looking forward to getting started 
at. I think I'll first he spending a lot of with them.
many to be a middle-to-late second­time learning about my position, and round pick. The Sporting News had maybe if there arc injuries or some­
"I didn't have any indication 
even named him the top guard thing I'll get a shot. Basically, I'm
beforehand about going to the
prospect in the draft and a looking a couple of years down the
Oilers. In fact, there had been
probabable first-round pick. The 6-line." 
rumors about me being picked by
6, 266-pound Kelley had also As far as the alternative of the
the Steelers or Denver. But like I
believed he would go a bit higher in United States Football League goes,
said, it was a strange draft, and I'm
the draft. Kelley does not look on that choice 
very happy to be with Houston. It'll 
"Yes, I had expected to he picked with much enthusiasm.
be good to get to play with (former
a little higher," admitted Kelley, ''I'm not real interested in playing 
Notre Dame fullback) Larry
"maybe even late first round. But it in the USFL," he said. "It's kind of a
Moriarty."

was a weird draft, with a lot of shaky operation, and it would people being selected in spots While most scouts have predicted probably be a gamble. Besides, I'd where they weren't expected to go. that Kelley will be used a-; a guard in much rather play in the NFL So I'm "That's just the way it was. But it the NFL, Houston has told him that going to stick with the Oilers and see 
doesn't really matter where you're he will be given a chance to show what happens." 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Editor 

One of the big questions arising around campus yesterday a-; the NFL draft progressed was why Notre Dame players had not been selected higher than they were, or, as in some ca-;cs, why they had not been selected at all. 
Three Irish players had to have been particularly disappointed with the day's events. A pair with espe­cially hard luck wa-; fullbacks Chris Smith and Mark Brooks, who both went undrafted through all I 2 rounds after some publications, The Sporting News for one, had projected the two as fourth-or fifth­round material. 
The Sporting News also had said that Larry Williams would go in the third round, but the guard was not picked until the I Oth round, when the Cleveland Browns told him he would be blocking for Bernie Kosar next year. 
Even defensive tackle Mike Gann, whom many experts had said would be a first round pick, did not go until 
see IRISH, page 11 







