----~--, 
'Freshman 15'-page 8 

Northeast residents 
•

oppose re-zoning 


for student housing 
By MIRIAM HILL worked hard to get "A" residential Copy Editor zoning status in 1964, Robinson said, "We want to keep it for family 
Loud parties may be a part of off­housing." campus life at Notre Dame, but resi· Barcome, who owns the land and dents ofSouth Bend's Northeast Side petitioned the APC for the zoning say this aspect ofstudents' life-styles change, disagreed with his neigh­clashes with their family-oriented bors and said they were not being neighborhood. fair to the students. 
Although the residents appreciate "There's no doubt these people the work Notre Dame students do in are discriminating against students," the area, they opposed a re-zoning he said. petition which would have allowed up to 30 more students to move into Barcome said the neighbors failed their neighborhood. · to consider that there are many non­
Two dozen residents stormed the students living in the area who Area Plan Commission meeting last neglect their property. July to voice their complaints about He also said the parties sponsored the zoning change. by Notre Dame students were minor 
The petition asked for a change compared to some colleges he has from "A" residential status to "B" visited. residential status on a lot at 727 Corby Blvd. The apartments would have 
"A" residential status allows for brought badly-needed revenue into single-family dwellings, while "B" the neighborhood, he added. residential allows for multiple­"There's too much old thinking. residence buildings. They (the neighbors) want to 
The developers, Richard Barbour protect their own area, but what of LaCrosse, Wis. and Thomas happens when they're not here Barcome ofSouth Bend, were asking anymore?" Barcome asked. for the zoning change in order to 
Robinson said the neighborsbuild six five-bedroom apartments 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1985 
~ Oblnverl}ustln Smidl 
·Representativejoan Rolwaing ofACSpark Plugs ingfinns were displayed in Fitzpatrick Hall during meets with juniorjerry McCrohan at the fifth an­the day, followed by an Industry Banquet in the nualEngineering Day. The exhibits of28 engineer-ACC last night. 

would have opposed the apartments 
on the 19,000 foot lot. 
even if students were not going to 


News ofsinger's cancellation 
The APC gave the petition an un­
live there. 
favorable recommendation and sent 
"We've have had quite a bit of 
it to the South Bend Common Coun­
problems with rental property,
cil for a final decision. 

'Stings' SAB concert promoters 
period," she said. "Landlords have 
The petition was struck from the 
been very lax. The tenants some of 
council's record at their Aug. 5 
the landlords have put in the houses 
administration looked at the figures Paulsen said. "All this was strictly in
meeting because the developers did 
haven't been very good for the ByJOHN FLORY and said they were risky," Mileti the talking stage," she said.
not attend the meeting, according to 
neighborhood. But, I'll tell you this, 
News Staff said. Sting's agent later responded that
councilwoman Ann Puzzello. 
you can really see the difference in 
Student Activities Board Director Sting would not play at Notre Dame
Northeast Neighborhood Service 
the area whj;:n the students are away 
Sting will not appear at the ACC, Lee Broussard said the administra­because they were looking for a big·
Center Director Renelda Robinson 
on vacation." despite attempts by the Student Ac· tion's analysis was "good enough ger arena, Mileti said. Mileti added
acted as a spokeswoman for the 
tivities Board to bring the performer reason" for the SAB to be cautious that the agent was uncertain whet­
neighbors at the APC meeting. Arthur Quigley, a Notre Dame en­
here, according to SAB Musical En­about bringing Sting to Notre Dame. her Sting's management wanted to
"We got the feedback from the gineering professor who lives in the 
tertainment Commissioner Ron work with Heidi Schwaab, a
seniors, the very elderly, They ob­area, said residents were not react­
Mileti. Mileti had told the Student Senate promoter in Little Rock, Ark., who
jected to more student housing. ing to the possibility of more stu­
The Student Senate had approved at last week's meeting that Sting was given the job of promoting and 
They felt there was enough," Robin­dents moving into the 
a resolution last Monday to bring the charged S40,000 plus 60 percent of financing the ACC concert. Mileti 
son said. neighborhood. He said the residents 
entertainer to Notre Dame on Nov. the concert's profits. said the agent has found a larger
She complained to the APC that opposed the petition because it was 
7, but Sting's promoter declined the After the administration reviewed arena for the concert.
students have little regard for the an example of "spot zoning," which 
offer because he was looking for an the concert figures, the chances of Mileti had arranged to have
neighborhood 'and often leave he defined as changing zoning status 
arena bigger than the ACC for the Sting appearing here were "remote," Schwaab share 50 percent of the 
messes after parties. solely for the personal gain of the 
concert which would have closed Broussard said. While the SAB and costs involved in promoting the
But, she added, "The students or­petitioner and not for the better­
Sting's 1985 U.S. tour, Mileti said. administrators were considering the concert in return for a 50 percent
ganized on campus are really quite ment of the area. 
Sting's promoters were asking for problems involved in financing the share of the profits. Jf the concert
beneficial to us. We just couldn't The neighbors' complaints have 
150,000 to S85,000 plus 80 to 85 concert. Sting's promoters still had lost money, however, Schwaab
continue without them." not chased developer Barbour from 
percent of the concert's gross, ac­not confirmed whether the singer would have been liable for 50 per­
Notre Dame students participate the area forever. He said he will peti· 
cording to Mileti. Ticket prices would appear at the ACC. cent of the losses.
in house beautification programs in tion the APC in the near future for 
probably would not have been more Before the SAB decided how For future concerts, Mileti said, a
the area, tutor neighborhood permission to build 12 units on a tri­
than S 1 5, Mileti said. much money to offer Sting, they local promoter will be sought to
children and help residents com­angular lot on Notre Dame Avenue, 
Notre Dame administrators wanted to know whether he would help the SAB promote concerts. The
plete their income tax forms. 
reviewed the figures and were afraid agree to play the ACC, Assistant SAB would be responsible solely for
Noting that the neighbors had See ZONING, page 3 
the concert might lose money. "The Director of Student Activities Ciel publicizing concerts on campus. 

Schultz and Shevardnadze meet, discuss differences 
Associated Press "Ofcourse," he told reporters. freely during a five-minute photo was sorry for not attending a U.N. the importance the administra­Shevardnadze said "We always session before beginning their General Assembly meeting Mon­tion attached to the meetings, 
UNITED NATIONS · Voicing count for the best." meeting, regarded as one of day where the American especially in its potential for sig· opttmtsm that they could But he was evasive when asked several pre-summit consulta­secretary of state spoke. The naling a breakthrough in the produce results, Secretary of whether he was bringing a new tions. Soviet foreign minister said his Geneva arms talks. State George Shultz and Soviet arms control proposal to discuss Reagan is to meet with Soviet schedule was too full. Foreign Minister Eduard with Shultz yesterday and with leader Mikhail Gorbachev· in In addition to Shultz, the In Washington, Reagan said he Shevardnadze met yesterday to President Reagan in Washington Geneva Nov. 19-20, and the American delegation attending is ready to discuss in detail "any try to narrow differences before on Friday. meetings at the United Nations the meeting at the Soviet U.N. serious proposal" about reducing 
the November U.S.-Soviet sum­"If I tell you all, afterwards I and in Washington this week are mission included Robert nuclear weaponry. But the ad­mit meeting. will have no answers," he said, regarded as serving to signal McFarlane, national security ad­ministration made it clear the Shultz was asked at the start if speaking through a translator. whether the summit can be viser, and Paul Nitze, special arms real bargaining should be he expected the scheduled four­Both Shultz and Shevardnadze successful. control adviser to Reagan. The reserved for the Geneva negotia· 
hour session to produce results. smiled frequently and chatted Shevardnadze told Shultz he presence of both underscored tions. 

·--~----------------------------------------------------------------------~--~..........~..........................~..r 
The Observer 

Notre Dame is among universities most often attended on the undergraduate level by people who have biographies in "Who's Who in America." A recent study ofthe 1982­83 edition of the biographical reference book of leaders noted 18 institutions as the "first postsecondary schools" most often listed in biographies, and the 18th university was Illinois with 1 percent. Notre Dame was grouped at 1.1 percent with four other schools; Northwestern, Minnesota, Texas and the City College of New York. Other ranked institutions with percentages between 2.6 and 1.2 were Columbia, Michigan, Yale Chicago, Pennsylvania, Princeton, California, New York University, Dartmouth, Wisconsin and Cornell. 
-The Observer 

Students in the Mexico City program are "very well and very eager to get mail," according to Isabel Charles, assis­tant provost at Notre Dame and director of the Foreign Study Programs at the University. "All long distance lines are disrupted, as the communications center in the city was completely demolished," said Charles, who visited the area on Monday. She added that none of the homes that the students are staying in were damaged in the earthquakes last Thursday morning and Friday night. Students can write to them at Centro Internacional, Av. Cerro Delas Torres 395, Col. Campestre Churubusco, 00420 Mexico OF. ·The Observer 
Of Interest ­
The Notre Dame Navy ROTC Unitwillhave its annual fall awards ceremony today in Memorial Library Auditorium at 4:30 p.m. The awards ceremony recognizes the academic and military achievements of Midshipmen during last semester as well as summer training. Special recognition will be given to Midshipmen Jeffrey Cissel, William Marvel, and Albert Musgrove who have been awarded the Humanitarian Service Medal for service aboard the USS Ogden which rescued Vietnamese refugees this summer. -The Observer 
"Ra . . Am . " 

ClSm U1 ertca is the topic ofa series of talks at the Center for Social Concerns for faculty and staff. The second talk is tomorrow from 12:15 to l p.m. Professor Richard Lamanna, Department of Sociology, will discuss "Housing Dis­crimination in South Bend." Brown bag or soup and bread for $1.00. -Tlx! Observer 
The Senior Challenge Golf Tournament will be held Sunday, September 29. Participants can register at LaFortune In­formation Desk today from 3-4:30 and tomorrow from 10-11 :30 a.m. There is a S1.00 registration fee. -The Observer 
RASTA (Rally Against Starvation) wilJ hold a meeting tonight at the Center for Social Concerns at 7:30. New members are welcome. -The Obsen'er 
The Student Liaison Committee of the Snite Museum ofArt will hold its second meeting ofthe year tonight at 6 in the concourse of the Snite Museum. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students interested in art, the collection of art, or the func­tions of a museum are welcome to attend. Yearly membership fees are S3 and include a Friends of the Snite membership, discounts on film series and t-shirts, and involvement in the Spring Art Fair planned for April 19-20, 1986. The meeting will be followed by the showing of the film, "Revenge of the Pink Panther," at 7 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite. -The Observer 
Father Balthasar Fischer,professor emeritus at Trier University in West Germany and visiting john O'Brien Profes­sor at Notre Dame will give a lecture entitled "Liturgy and Social Life in the Early Church" tonight at 8 in Notre Dame's Memorial Library Auditorium. Father Fischer's lecture is sponsored by the University's Department ofTheology as one of its Michael Mathis Lectures. -The Obsen'er 

Weather 
Rain -maybe. There's a 50 percent chance of showers today. The sun will return tomorrow. Highs in the middle 60s. Fair tonight with lows in the lower 40s. High in the middle 60s tomorrow. -AP 

The Observer 

lb~ Obwrv~r (USPS 599 2·4000) is publi~d Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Obecrvn-is published by the studentsof the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s College. Subscriptions may be purch~d for $30 per year ( SlO per sc· mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. 
Box Q. Notre Dame. lndiaiU 46'1'56 
Tbe Observer is a member of lbe 
AMoclakd Press. All reproduction 
rights ace reserved. 

Today's issue wa.'i produced hy: 
Design Editor................. Mack McLaughlin Design Assistant .................. Alice Kroeger Layout Staff........................ . ... Bill Harvey Typesetters .................... Becky Gunderman Chuck Papandrea News Editor .......................... Mary Heilman Copy Editor................................ Miriam Hill Sports Copy Editor.................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ Doug Hasler Viewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown Featun!S Copy Editor............... Tim Adams Features Layout............... Marid Labrador NDDayEditor ................... Sharon Emmite SMC Day Editor........ ........ Mary jean Sully Ad Design .................. Mary Carol Creadon joan Wrappe Peter George:; Photographer ................... .......justin Smith 
Thursday, September 26, 1985 -page 2 


Life in Indiana offers more than farms and basketball 
Examine the last Hoosier you talked to very closely. Does the person really make you think Indiana is some alien world? Or is it possible that this Hoosier isn't very different from you? 
In the midst of the Around the Corner "Hoosier Hys­teria Week," there is no better time to begin under­standing the state_ofIndiana and its Hoosier inhabitants. In an Observer article last week, Student Activities DirectorJoni Neal said the purpose ofHoosier Hysteria "is to project a better image ofthe state in which Notre Dame students spend four years oftheir lives." 
Around the Corner chose "Hoosier Olympics" and the "Come as your Favorite Hoosier" dance as a way to improve Indiana's image. It is true bonfires, square dances, and hayrides are a part of the Indiana tradition, as is the fine art offree-throw shooting. Ifnot taken as an integral part of Indiana life, the hog calling and "watermelon activities" can be overlooked. 
Although this life-long Hoosier never personally has called a hog or spit a water­melon seed for distance, it 
doesn't  matter.  Perhaps  
Around  the  Corner's  real  
purpose  is  to  let students  

have fun. Being the good­natured people that Hoosiers are, they have no problem taking a joke. 
The problem lies with people who actually believe Hoosiers are the root of all their problems. Some people aren't kidding when they call the entire state of Indiana "clueless." 

Two weeks ago, while driving down US 31, the ot­her passengers saw an old Studebaker in the distance holding up traffic. "Hoosier...," they started to yell, their volume increas­ing as the car neared. What they failed to notice was that the car had Ohio plates; it was just easier to blame a Hoosier. 
Sure, there are bad drivers in Indiana, but this was not even one ofthem. 
Obviously, these people need a better image of In­diana, but one weekend of Hoosier Hysteria will not help. In the time you are here in Hoosierland, do as the license plates suggest and "Wander Indiana." Do not just wander along the interstates. There is more to the state than flat land. 
Indiana, from the interstates, looks like most other states-trees, fields, and an occasional Stuckey's. 
The heart of Indiana has much more (even some rol­ling hills in southern Indiana-it's not our fault the icebergs never made it to the other half ofthe state.) 
There is also more to Indiana than South 
Rend/Mishawaka. Although there 
THE ANSWER IS 



vn11 
YOU 
HELP 
SAVE BABIES 


SObering

Advice . : alife 
..
··-·
-


ScoH Bearby 

Assistant News Editor 
wrongwith these cities, our close proximity to them for four years makes it difficult to analyze them fairly. After all, one can only hear the "Alive with Pride" jingle so many times without getting really annoyed. 
What can you find in Indiana? Some ofthe finest state parks around. The Indiana Dunes and Brown County State Park are just two of the many scenic points in In­diana. 
Beyond the little pink houses Indiana native John Cougar Mellencamp sings of, there is also the city of Indianapolis. 
A few years ago, the city could have been (and often was) called IndiaNOPLACE. Since then, it has turned that image around rapidly. In­dianapolis is no longer just the home of "the 500." It is one of the few northern cities which is experiencing 
. 
growth.

• Indianapolis symbolizes the sports-minded attitude of Hoosiers across the state. The city's determination has built many first-rate athletic facilities and has earned it a future sponsorship of the Pan Am Games. Baltimore al­ready knows how determined Hoosiers can be 
after seeing the Colts make their new home in the Hoosier Dome. 
The great love ofsports even carries down to the high school level. People may laugh when prime time TV is interrupted for a high school football or basketball game, but Hoosiers must have a good amount ofsense if they would rather watch that than "l.ove Boat" n:runs. 
Until you get the chance to "Wander Indiana" and experience a great state filled with great people, go out to Hoosier Hysteria and have a good time. Feel free to dress like Farmer John (or Farmer joan) for Hoosier night, but look at that last Hoosier you talked to and see whether they aren't dressed just like you. 

is really nothing 

AUDITIONS!! AUDITIONS!!AUDITIONS'! ~A new and exciting dance company on campus -QkQ">~ 
~r1 "~lM 0 T I 0 N
~'\·~

9:30am to? No Experience Necessary for more info. call 2_84-5505 
---------------------~-------~ 
The Observer Thursday, September 26, 1985 -page 3 

New York Times education editor: SMC provides quality education 

Singin' Irish 
Notre Dame studentjohn Kennedy entertains the audience with 
perfomzances ofIrish songs and datzces during his concert yester­
day in the Haggar College Center Chameleon Room. 
"<dl1oweJrs fpll aQQ occm~ioM~· 
Comein and ·Browse 
327 lincolnway 232-3354 


Students & Faculty 

Special to The Observer 
Saint Mary's students are getting their money's worth from their education, according to "The Best Buys in College Education," by Ed­ward Fiske, education editor for the New York Times. 
Fiske has selected 221 colleges throughout the country on the basis of the best quality education provided per dollar, not necessarily because they are the least expensive institutions. 
In making his selections, Fiske looked for signs of high academic quality, including good acceptance rates for alumni at graduate schools, selectivitiy in admission, and faculties with high percentages of Ph.D.s. He then considered special 


Zoning 
Continued from page 1 
approximately two blocks south and 
two blocks east of the first location. 
This petition, like the first one, 
will ask for a change in the zoning 
status. But this time the change will 
be from commercial to residential. 
Barbour said he thinks this peti­
tion will be approved. "The feeling 
in this case is that we'll be upgrading 
the zoning status instead of 
downgrading it." 
The apartments will have single 
bedrooms and will be designed with 
an emphasis on security, according 
to Barbour. 
Notre Dame student 
representatives and administrators 
expressed concern over the neigh-
qualities such as faculties known for their interest in students, quality libraries, counseling services, small class sizes, coherent curicula, and various special academic oppor­tunities such as study abroad. 
In the Saint Mary's listing Fiske stated, "Students at Saint Mary's Col­lege have the best of two worlds -a soundly traditional education on their own women's campus and, right across the street, a dominantly male university with which to so­cialize." 
He also noted, "A Saint Mary's education emphasizes several areas: writing, appreciation of literature, knowledge of social and political theory, exposure to scientific thought and analysis, and the knowledge ofChristian traditions." 
bor's complaints and said better communication was the key to sol­ving the problems in the area. 
"I understand their complaints, but I also understand these apart­ments (at 727 Corby Blvd.) would have been well-managed," said Off­campus SenatorJim Hagan. 
"As far as the whole argument that the students are loud, that's univer­sal," Hagan said. "I just think they (the neighbors) have to be a little more tolerant." 
He said he would discuss improv­ing relations between off-campus students and their neighbors in a meeting with Off-Campus Commis­
sioner  Thomas  McDonald  in  the  
near future.  
Associate  Vice  President  for  

Residence Life John Goldrick said his office always follows up on com-

MID .. EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
•· v~_.tCI11M .t ~!kat DUIWe FOODS SHAWBUt.4 • MUGBDERA-BABA GHENOUJ HOMMUS-FELAFEL TEBBOULI SAI.AD 
• UBANESB STYLE
SOUTH BEND 
GVROS

• 
Pite Stll/ffll Scutdwida. 

• 
IHU,Iatful Prutm• • Turlli.h Coif•• 


288-5639
Tur• -s.t 5:30PM -9:30PM COMPLETE CATERING FOR 838 Port 
PARTIES 4 BANQUET~ age 10'-Discount for ND/SMC Students 



plaints about off-campus students. He said many of the problems occur because students, like most renters, live in an area for one or two years and therefore have little long-term interest in the neighborhood. .__ 
"Ourofficial position is we expect Notre Dame students to be good neighbors," Goldrick said. "I think once they understand that, they will work with neighbors and sit down and say, 'What can we do? Where can we go?" 
One possibility for handling neighbors complaints about parties would be to have a representative from the neighborhood sit down and talk with a student who lives in the house where the party was held. This would clear up the misun­derstandings that sometimes occur on both sides, Goldrick said. 
Saint Mary's addresses ethnic issue 
By RAY MULERA 
StaffReporter 
The newly-formed Ethnic Diver­
sity Committee at Saint Mary's aims 
to increase the number of minority 
students attending the College, ac­
cording to Student Body President 
Anne Marie Kollman. 
Kollman said she launched the 
committee to "increase sensitlvity" 
to the minority issue. Too many stu­
dents are becoming comfortable 
with the homogeneous atmosphere 
at Saint Mary's, Kollman said. 
"Students do not feel it is a problem 
unless they are a minority," she said. 
The committee will begin meeting in two weeks to discuss the problems of minorities at the Col­lege and to make recommendations to the administration, according to committee chairwoman Mary Lally. 
Also ofconcern to the committee is the relatively low number of minority professors at Saint Mary's. Kollman said each area of the Col­lege is forming their own committee 

• 
Nosignup fee. 

• 
Nomonthly service fee. 

• 
Nominimum usage ... pay only for what you use. 



SAVE 
UP TO 
40% 
ON YOUR LONG 
DISTANCE PHONE CALLS 
• Stan saving today by 
cal/in
SAV~RLINE 
01 
1-800-7 42-0528 
ordial direct 
1-812-232-2496 
Monday through 
Friday Bam 
to 5pm 


to research possible action at their
::-:::::-::::;;:::=~::;:l ....~_e:_·~~-=_!_~_~;-~c_ill_i~m_~_:~_:_n:_odn_i:ty_:_po_r~-~-esso-e
-th_,r= 

PRESENTS 
ong 


"Nursing is popular," continues the listing, "but Saint Mary's reputa­tion is strongest in biology, chemistry, humanistic studies, English and art. (Saint Mary's is the only Catholic school to be ac­credited by the National Association ofSchools ofArt and Design. )" 
"Saint Mary's endowment, which has multiplied more than 1 5 times to about $12 mllion, since the 1970's, has helped to keep down costs to students. The varied facilities in­clude a new S7 million library, a newly renovated science facility, a psychology lab, new computer facilities and renovated art studios." 
Fiske concluded, "For any student who wants a small school connected to a large university, this is a good place to look." 

Correction 
Because of a reporting error, an article in yesterday's Observer gave an incorrect title for a speaker at last night's Industry 
Banquet  for  engineering  stu­ 
dents. Calvin  Blattner is  a  vice  
president  of  engineering  and  

operations for McDonnell­Douglas Astronautics Company. Also, Mary George is the presi­dent ofthe Society of Women En­gineers. The Observer regrets the errors. 
~ 

~~~c 
~~ 
SAVERLINE 
C 0 IUO ~AT ION 'nor loa, U.taaec lilfc~c 

Wednesday,September 25 Thursday, September 26 7,9,llpm 
Engineering Auditorium 






___________________________,._. 
Study says 'Star Wars' program will partially increase safety 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan's "Star Wars" missile defense program could "substantially in­crease" America's safety under cer­tain conditions, but it never will be 'able to protect the entire country from nuclear attack, science ad­visers to Congress concluded Tues­day. 
A study by the Office of Technology Assessment said the United States would need "great technical success" in its research program along with a change in the Soviet Union's strategy to also em­phasize defense rather than offense. 

A companion OTA study raised new questions about U.S. anti­satellite, or ASAT, weapons and cau­tioned that while this country may lead now in a technology field related to Star Wars, the Soviets are likely to catch up. 
"What this means is that after spending billions and billions ofdol­lars, we could find that we have bought ourselves greater instability than the world has ever confronted in the atomic age," said Rep. Les 
South Africans 
assualted while in jail 
Associated Press 

JOHANNESBURG, South Africa-A judge barred police from assaulting jailed activists yesterday after a white government doctor testified that hundreds ofher inmate patients were assaulted brutally. 
Dr. Wendy Orr said prisoners she treated in Port Elizabeth had bruises and wounds showing they were "systematically assaulted and abused after their arrest." 
Along with beatings, she said she also found cases where one detainee was forced to drink gasoline and another to eat some ofhis hair. 
Judge J.P.G. Eksteen's order covered all prisoners held under emergency powers in the Port Elizabeth and Uitenhage regions of the eastern Cape Province. 

In Port Elizabeth Supreme Court, 4 3 parents and relatives of detained activists joined Orr in seeking an in­junction restraining police from as­saulting prisoners held under the 
emergency powers. 
The national police department did not oppose the order. Eksteen instructed the prisons department to read the decision to all prisoners at jails in Port Elizabeth and Uitenhage. 
She found that at least 286 people had complained ofassault on admis­sion to prison from July 22 to Sept. 16, and in 153 cases the injuries "could not have been inflicted law­fully." 
In other developments: 

•The 
government announced it was redrafting the borders ofthree tribal homelands in the Transvaal Province, giving more land to the black homelands but also taking away some tracts and setting them aside for whites. The result is that 125,000 bl~cks previously scheduled for resettlement will not have to move because their villages have been added to the homelands, government officials said, adding that only "a few dozen" people will have to move under the new boun­dary plan. 

•Police 
headquarters said riot patrols found the charred body of a black woman in Langa township near Cape Town. 


Aspin, D-Wis., ~hairman of the House Armed Services Committee. 
The 324-page study of the Star Wars program, which is known for­mally as the Strategic Defense In­itiative, was done at the request of Aspin's panel and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Release of the report comes in the midst of a debate over the place of the high­tech missile-interception program in the nuclear balance between the two superpowers. 
The SDI program "carries a risk" that it could start an entirely new arms race and could create "severe instabilities" if it made the Soviets think the United States was seeking a first-strike capability, the study sug­gested. 
It noted there is confusion over the specific goals ofStar Wars. Some supporters ofthe program want a so­called "Astrodome" defense that would defend the entire nation, while others call for a defense ofU.S. missile sites. Critics say the latter would violate the 1972 treaty limit­ing missile defenses. 
The study concluded that while anti-missile weapons could "substantially increase" the safety margin in a nuclear attack, "assured survival of the U.S. population (the 'Astrodome' defense) appears im­possible to achieve if the Soviets are determined to deny it to us." 

That is because any U.S. defense could be countered by Soviet of­fensive maneuvers that would likely insure that some attacking missiles would make . it through the American shield, it said. 
As the November summit meeting between Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev approaches, the Soviets have increasingly called for cuts in the Star Wars program and said any new nuclear arms limitation agreement depends on the United States limiting its research. 
But the president, contending the Soviets are mounting their own research into missile defenses, said again last week that he would not agree to limiting the scope of the research program, although he did say he would negotiate before any system is deployed. 
Star Wars critics say an effective system is technologically impossible and will only lead to a new round in the nuclear arms race. 


OOTOB£1? 5 
10:00 am: THREE MILE 
11:00 am: SIX MILE 
T-SHIRTS AWARDED TO All ANISHERS IN BOTH RACES FIRST PLACE TROPHIES IN SIX DIVISIONS 
OOOAPRIZES $4.00 ENTRY FEE 

DEADLINE FOR ENTRIES: SEPTEMBER 27 
ENTRY FORMS AVAILABLE AT NVA 

,.· .. w--''" . 
APPhoco 

U.S. Secretary of State George Schultz turns away from the podium during the speech before the United Nations Tuesday of Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze condemning Reagan's "Star Wars" program. Related story at left. 
.• J.· 
»­
~"' ~ 20% Discount N.D.-S.M. Students 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 

Fridoy 
Lunch from 11:30 -2:00 Pizza -Subs -Beer 
~~ 
The Observer Thursday, September 26, 1985 -page 5 

APPboto

Searching for clues 
A National Transportation and Safety Board investigator looks over the engine ofthe crashed Henson AirlinesFlight 1517 on Hall Mountain near Weyers Cave, Virginia. The plane crashed during bad weather on Monday but was not found until late Monday night. There were no sun.'ir•ors among the 14 people on board. 
South Africa Tonight 


NEW YORK CAST 
The Famous Mus_icc;rl Story 
Suggested by the Memoirs of Gypsy Rose Lee Lyrics by Stephen Sondheirn Book by Anhur Laurents Music by Jule Styne 

"Let Me Entertain You" "Everything's Coming Up Roses" FRIDAY, OCTO!IER 11-8:00 p.m. O'LAUGHUN AUDITORIUM 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE Reaened Seab $10 for info call: (219) 284-4626 Mail Requeata to: Saint Mary'a College, 
P.O. Box 114, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.-----------­



Hurricane Gloria spares Bahamas; East Coast gets ready for strike 
Associated Press 
MIAMI, Fla.-Hurricane Gloria, one of the most powerful storms ever recorded in the open Atlantic, spared the Bahamas and headed for the East Coast yesterday as it spun across the sea with I 50 mph winds. 
Officials in coastal states began taking precautions, and campers were evacuated from one coastal is­land. A hurricane watch was posted for North Carolina's vulnerable bar· rier islands and parts of Virginia and South Carolina. 
"Some place along the East Coast of the United States is going to be threatened by this storm, and very quickly," if the storm's path doesn't change, said Neil Frank, director of the National Hurricane Center in nearby Coral Gables. 
Frank said even if Gloria's winds weaken before landfall, which could come by Friday at a site yet uncer­tain, it might attain such a fast for­ward speed that it could be just as dangerous because there would be less time to evacuate. 
At 3 p.m. Gloria's eye was near latitude 27. 1 north, longitude 73.1 
west, which is about 575 miles south-southeast of Cape Hatteras, 
N.C. It was moving nonhwest at I5 mph and was expected to turn nonhward and increase its forward speed. 
The threat to the Carolinas in­creased when the hurricane did not make an expected turn, the weather service said. 
A hurricane watch was posted from Edisto Beach, just south of Charleston, S.C., to Cape Henry, Va., including North Carolina's outer banks. A campground on Ocracoke Island, a short ferry ride from Cape 
Hatteras, was evacuated yesterday 
ACategory 4 storm has winds bet­ween 13I mph and l 55 mph, and storms with higher winds are clas­sified Category 5. However, Gerrish said Gloria was classified Category 5 because its low central barometric pressure, which pulls in the wind, fluctuated above and below 27.I 7 inches, the threshold for that category. 
Frank cautioned that hurricanes often pick up forward speed as they move northward over colder water and that Gloria "could weaken to a Category 3 but cause as much 
damage moving 50 to 60 miles. an 
morning, and residents of Ocracoke . hiour _as a Catego:,y 5 storm movmg and Portsmouth islands were asked 5 mtles an hour. to leave. 
In New York, the Long IslandHighest sustained winds of the Ughting Co. said it had called in300-mile-wide hurricane fluctuated workers from vacation so it would 

at around l SO mph. 
be ready to meet any problems that might occur during a storm. 
Gloria was classified as a "borderline" Category 5 storm on a Gloria formed as a tropical scale that rates hurricane strl'!ngth depression near Cape Verde, Africa, from I to 5, said Hal Gerrish, a and swept across the Atlantic for forecaster at the hurricane center. A nearly five days before reaching hur­Category 5 hurricane is capable of ricane strength, winds above 74 
catastrophic damage. 

SCOPE US OUT 

FOR ALL YOUR EVE CARE NEEDS­COMPLETE EXAMS 
contacts, glasses ND Sl\·1C ~tudents, 
Facuhv i-lnd Staff Show )'our LD. dnd Receive 20 ·;.OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
Excluding Specials 
• 
ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 
11351.1,........ 1341 Pwtlp 
2n-1111 234-2400 
South ol U.S. 23 ~.~art~~·s Sho!lPong 
Center 
MORE Stats. Power! IMPROVED File Handling. Reporting! 


SPSS/PC+ ADVANCED STATISTICS 
a MANO.IA 
• Factor analysJs 8 Cluster anaJys1s a Dscmnmant anaJo;s!s 8 Log/meaT moc1e111ng 
SPSS/PC+ TABLES 
a Stub & banrteT t8b/eS D Multiple rosponse data a Presemaoon quality 
tables and reports D Fun range ol percemagmg and statistiCS options 

For more 1nlormat100. contact our Market1ng Department at. 
SPSStnc. 444 N. MIChigan Allenue 
Chicago. ll 60611 3t21329·3500 
IN EUROPE SPSS Europe B:V. 
PO Box 1t5 4200 AI::-Gonnchem 
The Netherlands. 
Phone • 31183036711 TWX 21019 
VISA. MaslerCard and Amencan Express accepted 

The Enhanced and Expanded Statistical Package for IBM PC/XT/ATs 
SPSStPC •. combined with SPSSIPC• Advanced Stabstocs" and SPSSIPC• Tables." form THE most comprehenSIYe StaiiSIICal software ava1lable lor a mocrocomputer For nearly 20 years. the name · SPSS • has meant h'!Jh quality matnframe software All three miCroproducls ma1n­ta1n feature and language compat1btltty W1th the ma1nframe ...ersiOnS And SPSStPC • comes wtth e...eryth1ng you should eKpect from a market leader-a thorough. well·deStgned package wrth excellent documentatl()rl and cusiOrner support 
SPSS/PC+ -~
___ , ____ ----------: D Display manager & editor D F1le matChing &merg1ng 8 File transfer w1th popular PC progrr.ms 
• 
Selectnle Installation & removal ol proceduffJS 

• 
Crosstabu/atlon 

• 
Descr!plJVe statistiCS 

• 
Mulllple regresSIOfl 

• 
ANOIA 


• ~s&graphs 
• 
Flexible data transformation 

• 
Customized reports 


1 
• 
mph, on Sunday. 
Controller cited in near-crash 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Investigators 

who examined tapes of tower com· 
munications concluded yesterday 
that the pilot of a helicopter that 
forced a crowded Eastern Airlines 
jet to abort its takeoff had received 
clearance to cross the runway, 
federal officials said. 
A spokesman for the National 

Transportation Safety Board said a 
controller at National Airport in 
nearby Virginia had given the 
helicopter general takeoff clearance 
but had not specified a direction that 
would avoid crossing the main run­
way where the Boeing 727 had been 
cleared for takeoff. 
The Eastern jet skidded to a stop 

about 130 feet from the Potomac 
River in the Tuesday evening inci­
dent. 
Eastern's 5 p.m. "shuttle" flight 

from Washington to New York, with 
I 75 passengers and a crew of seven, 
came to rest on ground that had 
been a river inlet before being filled 
in only last year as a runway safety 
extension. 
One person sustained minor in­

juries, and neither aircraft was 
believed damaged in the Tuesday 
incident. 
NTSB spokesman Bill Bush said in­

vestigators had been told by the con­
troller's supervisors that the 
controller thought she had directed 
the helicopter to take a northwes­
terly departure route, but that an ex­
amination of the tapes showed 
otherwise. 
The controller, who was handling helicopters exclusively, was in the airport tower alongside another controller who was handling the departing jet traffic, FAA officials said. 
FAA spokesman Fred Farrar said the controller has been restricted to administrative duties pending fur­ther investigation. She was not iden­tified. 
Among the passengers were David Hartman, host ofABC's "Good Morning America," and New York Daily News executives james Willse and Michael Pakenham. Most pas· sengers boarded another Eastern flight to New York. 
Thursday, September 26, 1985-page 6 

,, 

1}, 
I. 

ii ' Offensive albums should contain labels 
"Rock music has always pushed at the edge tion Picture Association, was instrumental in restraint in the record industry. As part of a ofPrince's Purple Rain, complete with moans of social acceptability." So says David Gergen establishing a voluntary rating system for professional industry, the record companies and groans. It would be a warning also to in a May 20 editorial in U.S. News and World movies. The familiar G, PG and R ratings, as have a responsibilty to govern themselves, to people who prefer not to spend S8 to S10 on Report. This time rock music may have gone well as the new PG-13, arose from a belief that know when enough is too much. Stroud an album and find later that they have too far. Social acceptability, in the form of a the movie-going public wanted to know what would also like to see children under the age purchased pornography. group ofWashington wives, is pushing back. to expect from a motion picture before they · of 17 prohibited from attending sexually ex­
Susan Baker, wife of the treasury secretary, paid the price of admission. The Washington plicit concerts. Prince, whose audiences are Columbia Records has recently placed a and Mary Elizabeth Gore, wife of the junior wives believe that the record-buying public liberally populated with 12 and 13-year olds, warning on a posthumously released album of senator from Tennessee, are just two mem­should have the same forewarning. They sup­springs instantly to mind. Marvin Gaye songs. The album is called bers of a group that is, in Gergen's words, port a ratings system for record albums as well Dream of a Lifetime and the warning reads, "launching a campaign to wipe out a new pes­as a printed version of the lyrics on every al­Frank Zappa has been, understandably, vo­"This album contains lyrical content that may tilence in our midst." That pestilence is the bum jacket. cal in opposing a ratings system. And at first be considered offensive to some listeners." increasingly explicit nature ofrock lyrics. glance, the efforts of the Washington wives Objectionable songs include "Sanctified Kandy Stroud in the May 6 issue of might be construed as yet another form of Lady," "Masochistic Beauty," and "Savage in Newsweek cites many familiar songs as being government control over an already well­the Sack." (Use your depraved imaginations).
Maura Mandyck 

sexually explicit. Among them are "Sugar policed public. Yet the proposed ratings sys­Columbia has taken the first step. I hope that Walls," by Sheena Easton, "Darling Nikki," by tem is not censorship but merely restraint. It the rest of the record industry will follow. 
frankly my dear Prince, "She Bop," by Cyndi Lauper and a par­would be a way to warn parents, many of ticularly brutal ditty by Judas Priest called whom claim to be unable to decipher popular Maura Mandyck is a juniorEnglish major "Eat Me Alive." rock lyrics, of unsavory content before their at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint 
In 1968, Jack Valenti, then head of the Mo-Stroud advocates first a sense of self-children have memorized the entire first side columnist. 
I. P.O. BOXQ 
his family. On any given weekend I have seen •Aren't hallucinogens bad for the brain? 
Silly remark ruined
Lethargic response 
Sacred Heart Church filled with visiting Concerning the first point, Dr. Leary said alumni, guests from the South Bend com­this: "I believe, I belong to that school of 
a valid argument

damaged Grotto 
munity and students. There is something thought that thinks that everyone's brain DearEditor: DearEditor: especially impressive, however, about seeing cr'eates their own reality. So, your reality is dif­I would like to respond to Don Johnson's 
Early Monday morning, we witnessed the the church filled to overflowing with men and ferent from other peoples' -always different. letter concerning the equal treatment ofSaint beginning ofthe fire at the Grotto. At the time women of Notre Dame in support of one of Now you share certain uniforms...but the sub­Mary's students in football and basketball that we saw it, the fire had just begun on the their own. Father Hesburgh stated in his jective nature of reality, philosophers have ticket sales. back left side. After deciding that the fire was opening comments that, beyond being a good been discussing this for thousands of years. First, I would like to say he is right. We are more than just a small flame, we sprinted to Catholic university, he would hope that Notre Gee...what I'm in favor of is learning how to not Notre Dame, and we are proud of the fact Sorin Hall to call the fire department. The time Dame would be a place "where people care orchestrate and activate and use your brain. that we go to Saint Mary's. In our opinion, it is of the report was around 2:50 a.m. The about one another." I have little doubt that he And I assure you -I'll look you in the eye and the finest women's college in the United fireman said that it was the second report of is encouraged in his mission as president after tell you: I would never take any drug that States. the same fire. The person from the depart­Tuesday evening's expression ofcare and con­would destroy my brain," he finishes, answer· Second, he was so intent on distinguishing ment casually asked whether it was "really cern by so many. I, too, am encouraged in my ing Mr. Sharkey's third concern. Mr. Sharkey Notre Dame and Saint Mary's that he forgot to 
that big ofa fire" to which we replied "No, but own mission and proud to be a member ofthe protests: "Not destroy it." mention the integral part Saint Mary's plays in it could be soon." At the time that we reported Notre Dame family. Then follows the exchange which has Notre Dame life. He neglected to ack­it, there was no way that 500 gallons ofwater jim Lies become Mr. Sharkey's second question. nowledge all of the support we give Notre and foam would be needed to put out the fire AssistantRector Sharkey: Don't the drugs at least rearrange Dame in various non-social activities. Three of we had seen. We believe that the lethargic at­Holy Cross Hall for a period of time? Notre Dame's cheerleaders happen to be Saint (' titude toward the fire was the reason for the Leary: Well what's wrong with rearranging Mary's girls who work just as hard as Notre substantial damage done. Later that day, the for a period oftime? Dame's student cheerleaders. And what about
:t 
{ Saint Mary's women
humbled Grotto we saw was shocking and in­Sharkey: You're not doing your own think· the Saint Mary's girls who are members of the 
excusable. None ofthis would have happened ing. The chemicals are somewhat directing band? I also recall setting up chairs, along with{ had the call been treated with respect and contribute to ND your thoughts, or at least your reference ten other Saint Mary's junior council mem­'( l acted upon promptly. points. bers, from 2 to 5 a.m. for the musical chairs rt" Mark Nemec DearEditor: Leary: The chemicals aren't. Different cir­event.I am sure if you would ask any of the 
f!I. 
AlumniHall I am writing in regard to Don Johnson's let­cuits ofyour brain have taken over. It'd be like Notre Dame students who were out there that Michele Martin ter in the Sept. 20 Observer concerning foot­when you go to sleep, certain circuits take night, they would tell you they appreciated
ri 
Lyons Hall ball ticket prices. It is too bad Johnson had to over and you dream. You're not controlling our help. Saint Mary's students also play a very
t 
ruin a perfectly legitimate argument with your dreaming. There's nothing wrong with active role in the An Tostal committee, along such an asinine comment at the end. So, you not being in control of your realities, and let­with other clubs Notre Dame chooses to openi ND students at mass think "everyone should date one Saint Mary's ting them go. to us every year. As a matter of fact, a Saint woman at least once?" Well, sir, I am just glad Mary's student is president ofthe Notre Dame · 
( t showed great spirit 
there are a lot of women here at Saint Mary's "Nothing happens under LSD that wouldn't Toastmasters Club. In addition, because ofthe { like myself who would rather remain dateless happen anyway, you know... read the books. ratio of men to women there, J think most DearEditor: than go out with someone who would make a Don't take LSpuntil you have read the books." men at Notre Dame appreciate the fact that
( 
On Tuesday evening, Sept. 24, I attended a statement such as that one. Thank you for It seens pretty clear Leary does not get Saint Mary's is across the street.
r 
I Mass for Kevin Hurley, the Howard Hall resi­your rather fair assessment of the athletics along with Mr. Sharkey's "hiding from the Johnson did have some valid points; Saint ( . dent who was injured in a hit and run accident ticket cost and distribution process, but keep common reality." Rather, he holds to the no­Mary's students probably have to pay more for ( on Sept. 7. your silly, uncalled for remarks to yourself. tion that one expands one's own hold on dif­tickets because of activity fees, which areal­( Having received my undergraduate degree ]enniL. Wilson ferent sujective realities by using your own ready included in what Notre Dame students "( at the College of Saint Thomas in Saint Paul, LeMansHall brain -which is what I think Leary means. pay for attending school there. But I still have r Minn. and having worked for a year at Saint Then the answer to Sharkey's second question not figured out Johnson's correlation bet­
Norbert College in DePere, Wis. before com­is: yes, one is still thinking for oneself. The ween dating a Saint Mary's girl "at least once" 
' y Sharky's questions
·' ing to Notre Dame, my experience with Cat­drugs open up different circuits ofyour brain, and equality in the ticket lines. By making that holic institutions of higher education has like falling asleep opens up different circuits. comment he demeaned himself and ruined been plentiful. Because I am new to the Uni· were well addressed Finally, Leary assures us he would not touch any valid argument he made. He has obviously versity ofNotre Dame my contact with the life any drug which he felt was dangerous or had a bad relationship with a Saint Mary's girl here has been limited, but without question, DearEditor: damaging to his brain. and therefore holds a grudge against the the spirit that I so expected of a university Mr: Sharkey has asked the following ques­Incidentally, Leary tapes will be broadcast whole student body. It's too bad because with such an outstanding reputation'is clearly tions of Timothy Leary: •Isn't creating one's over one of the Notre Dame radio stations at there are a lot of fine individuals who attend evident. own reality with drugs in effect hiding from the earliest possible moment. school here andJohnson will never be able to 
I was moved not only by the liturgy itself, the common reality? Michael Vore date one of us "at least once" again. but by the incredible number ofstudents who •Is one still "thinking for oneself' when one is Ideas & Issues Committee Susan McCrory turned out to support and pray for Kevin and on a dru~-induced trip ofhallucinations? StudentActivities Board Holy Cross Hall 
Doonesbury 
8JY5, 80'1S! ()()N7' 7RY TO CJ1ANGf3 CAOI OTHER! YOU 
GUYS AReQA93/C Af?L.HE­7'1Pff3! tJS(; THAT A~ PARTOF 'tWR EPIJCATION.I 
' 

Garry Trudeau 
YOU 7WO 5PAN 7HC 5PE'CT?JJM­Fr<arl THe 8R{XXJ!flk3CYNIOSM 
OFA PREMATlJFIE 8URN-otJT 10 me POP'N'FRESH 
OPT!~ OF A ~IVU~ 
REA6ANAIJ<HEAIJ/ 
" 
Quote ofthe Day 
"Nor do I seek to understand that I may believe, but I believe that I may under­stand. For this too I believe, that unless I first believe, I shall not understand." 
Saint Anselm (1033-1109) 
"Proslogion" 


"ie~P--O~i~n~t___________________________________________T_h_u_r_sd_a~y~,s_e~p-te_m_b_e_r_2_6~,_19_8_5__-~p~a~g~e__7 


P.O.BoxQ 
Ticket scalping boys are sons ofalumnus 
Dear Editor: 
Aside from frequently wanting to remind the administration of the natural law that: the only thing worse than bad food is waiting in line for bad food, this is really the first time that I have been seriously compelled to write to you. 
Last Friday afternoon as I was making my way up through the many groups of alumni and their families, on my way to O'Shag in or­der to get some weekend homework out of the way, something happened which upset me. On the path between Cushing and O'Shag I noticed two young kids, maybe 13 or 14 years of age, standing adjacent to the usual bikes parked along the wired posts. As I passed, one asked discretely, "Need tickets for tomorrow's game?" Now being rather in­coherent as I usually seem to be after a long week, and also figuring that these were two young locals looking for a chance to catch their first real glimpse ofthe Irish on Saturday, I replied, "No, I only have my one student pass, and it is not for sale." As I began to walk away the youngest of the two said "No, no, what we were asking is, do you want to buy a couple oftickets?" I then stopped, more out of curiosity than any real impulse to buy. 
After viewing the merchandise it was clear that these two young people had in their possession two general admission passes for Saturday night's game. Their price was a cool 
52';.00 each. Keeping in mind that these two tickets could place me and a friend in a much better location in the stands than the ten yard line ticket I received after sleeping on cement all night, I became even more curious. So as not to arouse the suspicion ofthese obviously anxious characters, I casually handed them my copy of The Observer and while focusing their attention on the ticket section asked, "Hey, so where did you guys get such great tickets?" The younger of the two went on to explain in a youthful unembarrassed way that his Mommy and Daddy are alumni here. Ap­parently Mommy and Daddy had received six tickets in the mail but only had need for four of them. So while the Mommy and Daddy were offviewing the newsights, e.g.law build­
ing. etc..., Daddy asked the brothers to go out and sell the extra two tickets to a student. What the heck? I didn't see Mommy and Daddy sleeping on cement next to me all nt'ght, d'd1 you ... illl 
Well being rather excited about the upcom­ing festivities of Saturday night's game I figured S2S.OO was not that bad, and also keeping in mind a couple of friends who missed their single opportunity to get tickets I decided to buy them. But upon returning 
from my room with the cash I was informed by the older brother that due to the apparent ticket demand by other students in The Ob­server that he had just raised the price to S30.00 each. After laughing, I said "Forget it!" They thanked me for the help and went to the nearest phone. And I thought to myself, "What a son ofan alumni." 
Patrick Cottrel Howard Hall 
Broadcast ofmass degrades God's gift 
DearEditor: 

As I made my way to the South Dining Hall 
this past Saturday evening, I could not help 
but notice that the 5 p.m. Mass at Sacred Heart 
Church was being "piped" through 
loudspeakers to the entire campus. I wish to 
express my confusion and disappointment 
over the fact that this university, which takes 
such pride in its strong affiliation with the 
Roman Catholic Church, should take such 
liberties with the liturgy. Perhaps this practice 
was meant to impress the many football fans 
on campus that day with a display of Notre 
Dame's religious fervor. Whatever the inten­
tion, the action appeared rather to make the 
Eucharistic celebration into a carnival sides­
how, another one of the many ritual attrac­
tions ofa Notre Dame football weekend. At its 
worst, this display could have been construed 
as a literal belief in the "God made Notre 
Dame l" slogan. 

It would be easy enough to dismiss my com­
plaint as coming from a student ofliturgy who 
is too enmeshed in academics to have a real 
understanding muchsi pf ;otirgu wjp os tpp 
em,esjed om acade,ocs tp javbe a rea; of the 
Mass. What difference does it make, after all, 
whether we are actually participating in our 
thanksgiving to God, so long as we can hear 
someone saying the words for us? 
(Undoubtedly some were relieved to think 
they could fulfill their "Sunday obligation" by 
sitting on the campus lawn with their picnic 
dinner.) "The Notre Dame Community" ­
"The People of God": is there any difference? 
"God made Notre Dame 1." 

My reaction is not merely "as a student of liturgy": it is as aChristian and as a Roman Cat­holic that I must object to all forms ofidolatry, whether of "football weekend," or of the Notre Dame community, or even of the liturgy. All ofthese things have a rightful place among God's gifts. I urge all ofus in the Notre Dame community to respect such gifts ofGod by not confusing and degrading them. 
David Stosur Notre Dame Graduate Student 


Resident ofElkhart proud to be Hoosier 
Dear Editor: 

It happens everywhere. I'm in South Dining 
Hall, peacefully doodling in my tuna nood­
lebake, when it happens. A tan, curly-haired 
Domer wearing a torn USC sweatshirt and 
Hawaiian shorts turns to me and says, "Hi! 
Where are you from?" I fidget in my seat, stuff 
a gravy-coloredpiece oftuna in my mouth and 
mumble, "Uh, Elkhart," barely breathing the 
last syllable. Suddenly his head jerks forward 
and he spits his Cherry Coke, ice and all, back 
into his glass with a gasp. Then he starts laugh­
ing loudly. He stops for a minute, repeats to 
himself, "Elkhart," and then, hiccupping with 
hysterics, clutches his stomach and pounds 
his head against the edge ofhis yellow tray. 
For three years I've been laughed, scoffed 
and sneered at by Domers simply because 
(gasp) I live in Indiana. Well, that's it. I've had 
it. Yes, I am a Hoosier and yes, I am proud ofit! 
I can't undo the effects of the glacier move­
ment that flattened northern Indiana during 
the Ice Age, nor can I plant palm trees to 
"improve" the state, but I can show that ole 
Indiana isn't as bad as many Domers insist. 
With the help of an Indiana-hating friend from New jersey (as if he should talk), I've compiled three major complaints against the Hoosier sr.ate I'd like to get the facts straight. 
• 
"Indiana is boring." My response to this is "look harder!" There's more to do than just movies, putt putt golf and bowling. For in­stance, there's white-water rafting at the East Raceway here in South Bend, and the In­dianapolis 500 in May. For basketball fans, the annual high school boys' basketball tourna­ment in March is "Hoosier Hysteria" at its best. Interesting historical places to visit in­clude Conner Prairie Pioneer Settlement in Noblesville and Lincoln Boyhood National Memorial near Lincoln City. 

• 
"All Hoosiers are backward farmers." Wrong! The fact is, Indiana is one of the leading manufacturing states. Only 13 percent of the population arc farmers. Yes, we do live in sub-divisions, wear Guess jeans and own Cuisinarts. 


Many famous people are from Indiana, too. Benjamin Harrison (our 2 3rd President), Cole Porter, james Whitcomb Riley, Theodore Dreiser and Knute Rockne are only a few. And where would we bewithoutJohn Cougar Mel­lencamp, Michael Jackson or David Letter­man? 
• "Indiana's landscape is flat and ugly." Obviously, anyone who says this has never been to southern Indiana, where there are rol­ling hills, breath-taking ravines and beautiful underground caverns. Brown County and Turkey Run State Park are popular, pic­turesque attractions. In the North we have the Indiana Dunes on scenic Lake Michigan. Granted it may not be the Pacific Ocean, but it has sand, waves and best ofall, no sharks! 
I realize my argument may not convince anyone to stay in South Bend forever, but the next time ethanol wafts menacingly through the air, don't curse Indiana! Remember there are good things here too. I may not like it all the time either, but Indiana is my home. Ofthe 
5.5 million Hoosier residents, 95 percent were born in Indiana, indicating millions share my feelings. 
The next time anyone at the Dining Hall laughs, he better be prepared. I'm ready. He's not going to hear all about "Ill-cart," but Elkhart, famous for band instruments, RVs and Alka Seltzer! 
Kristen Trimmer Lewis Hall 
· 

Drinking too much wastes many lives 
DearEditor: 
The Viewpoint page of Sept. 18 presented two contrasting articles pertaining to hope for Notre Dame students. On one side was an ar­ticle on the systemized ignorance which deprives some American children of their soul. Opposite this article was one blasting the administration's year old alcohol policy. It mentioned angry protests and blatantly open beer cans. More importantly, it was con­cerned with the serious alcohol problem on campus. 
Notre Dame is filled with hope. We are all educated, well adjusted, success-minded young people. We all aim to "fulfill" our lives and maybe make the world a better place. These two articles, however, were hopeless. Outside ofour insulated environment exists a world in which success is not a future goal; the only goal is to get through the day. Our society leaves these poor children behind, be­cause they do not fit into our American con­ception ofsuccess. 
From within our University comes another hopeless situation. We, who are called to make a difference in the lives ofothers, waste our lives in excessive drinking. While I do not agree with the prohibitionist policy ofthe ad­ministration, it is time that we students look at our own actions. In only my first four weeks here, I have been a part of much immature and even problematic drinking. It is time that the administration treat us as adults, but more im­portantly, that we act as conscientious people to spread hope lO a desperate world. 
MarkDrajem Carroll Hall 



-The_.ObserYer.. --­
P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper publ1shed by the students of the Un1versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Marys College. It does not necessanly reflect the policies of the admm1strat1on of e1ther mst1tut1on The news 1s reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board Commen­tanes. leners and the lns1de Column present the VieWS of their authors. Column space 1s available to all members of the community and the free expreSSion of vary1ng opm1ons on 
campus. through leners. IS encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Ham1lton Managmg Editor ............ .................... Amy Stephan News Editor ......... ......................... Keith Harrison Jr News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Samt Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Spons Editor . . .. . . .. . ......... .. .. .............. Jeff Blumb Accent Edito!................. ... . ......... Mary Healy Viewpoint Ed1tor . .. .. .. .. .......................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ............ ............ Peter C. Laches Copy Ch1ef .......................................... Frank L1po 
Operations Board 
Business Manager . . ..... David Stephen1tch Controller .............. . . .W1lliam J. H1ghducheck Advertising Manager ..... . ............ J1m Hagan Systems Manager .......... Mark B Johnson Production Manager ..... John A. Men nell 
Founded November 3, 1966 




Accent 

Curittg the dreaded 'Freshtnan 15' 
group, two from the meat group, Food Services changed in their Dinner -Eat the entree that is the
Lisa Young 
T 
and "as many fruits and vegetables menu are the addition ofa variety of hardest to pronounce. For nutri­features writer as you can tolerate," says Farnia. fresh fruits to each meal and an tion, try two servings ofveggies ­Your meat selection should include alternative to the usual 'eggs and preferably brussels sprouts. Ab­he newly-acquired indepen­will have "Twinkie Thighs" and lean meats that preferably are bacon' breakfast with the breakfast solutely no ice cream or cake. dence offreshman year is over­"Dorm Butt." You will be referred broiled or baked, as opposed to bar." EXERCISE: whelming. to as a South Bend "Snow Cow." fried. Plain meats are best; sauces This exercise program will not 
Stay out as late as you like and Ifyou are, at this moment, pus­and gravies add extra fat and In addition to maintaining a only get you in shape, it will allow your mom won't know about it. hing away your lunch tray and calories to meat. Extra desserts proper diet, exercise is also a good you to visit places you may have Blow offclass or your homework vowing only to eat every other day should also be eliminated. way to stay trim. Maybe the very never had the opportunity to visit and she won't find out. Date a in order to prevent such a Farnia says that freshmen are in a mention ofexercise makes you before. It is very simple. Remember· senior, and she won't tell you he's catastrophe -wait. The "Freshman new situation and tend to make bad cringe, but it is an undeniable met­the game "Hop, Skip, andJump?" too old for you. Call Domino's 15" can be prevented. decisions in regard to their diet. hod oflosing weight. Try it in tan­Good. Get out your trusty campus anytime you want and you won't First, let's get the facts straight. Freshman year is a time ofnew dem with a good diet, and you may map. See the alphabetical list of hear lectures about snacking bet­The "Freshman 15" should really be beginnings and would be ideal for rid yourselfofthe "spare tire" buildings? Start at the Administra­ween meals. referred to as the "Freshman 9." starting a new habit ofproper around your waist. tion Building (that's the easy part). 
First you call for a large pep­According to Dorm Magazine, the eating. Overall nutrition is the key Okay, so you've got the facts Now hop to the Aerospace En­peroni pizza, with extra cheese, average freshman gains nine factor in regard to diet choices. about beating the "Freshman 15," gineering Lab. Then skip to the every week. Then twice a week. So pounds. The average college According to Farnia, it is possible but you're not quite sure you've got Alumni-Senior Club. jump to many "times a week" that Mom graduate weighs 40 pounds more to count calories at the dining hall. the motivation. Then this "No Alumni Hall. Hop to the Ar· finds out. No, she doesn't find your than he did before their freshman Most menu selections have calorie 'Freshman 15' for Me" Program is chitecture Building. Continue in checkbook. She notices your year. counts listed beneath the food title, for you. It incorporates a new diet this manner until you reach Zah~ waistline. Ugh -it's the dreaded So, how do you beat the statis­but Farnia admits, "It is difficult, and exercise schedule especially for Hall. Repeat daily until you can do it "Freshman 15." tics? According to Suzanne Farnia, because ofthe number ofcasseroles freshmen. without the map (good thing this is 

All the blame does not fall on manager ofmarketing and nutrition we serve." DIET: a small campus). Domino's, though. Freshmen learn service for University Food In response to the complaint that Breakfast-You must eat the other The rest is up to you. You can early that the Huddle is in the build­Services, the "Freshman 15" can be dining hall food is excessively entree, no matter what it is. heed this advice, or you can con­ing just south ofthe Dome. prevented with a basic diet -"the starchy and caloric, Farnia agrees Scrambled eggs are not allowed. tinue watching soaps all day long. McDonald's delivers. And you've one you learned in primary school that some selections are, but that Donuts are a definite no-no. As you're reaching for that last even got your own line ofcredit -at and forgot about," says Farnia. these selections are often preferred Lunch -Try the soup. No tossed cookie to finish offyour lunch, you your local food sales. To refresh your memory, this diet by students. Student preferences salads allowed, but you may try may want to keep this quote in 
It seems inevitable. You will includes the four food groups. Daily dictate the choices offered, and anything else from the salad bar. mind: "Those who cannot fight off 
i..~ 
leave campus in May with 1 7 new intake should include 2-3 servings students are not always thinking (This includes anything made with the 'Freshman l ~· will surely sur­
:·{ 
books -and their equivalent weight from the milk/dairy products about their dietary intake. She adds, jello, cottage cheese, or pineapple, render to the 'Sophomore.(I distributed over your body. You group, four or more from the bread "Two specific things that University and anything undistin2Uishable.) Seventy!" 
.,{ 

{( //t Recipe to get rid of'love handles' 
1/ 
I . 
(~ When starting on an exercise Weightlifting: Good for building Finding time isn't the problem;
.,( Kevin Kennedy 
program, one must always remem­muscle but does little for burning finding motivation is. The "I'll do it
.( features writer 
ber to start conservatively and then fat. tomorrow" syndrome. This can be 
increase exercise as fitness in­Running: This is the best and the overcome in a variety ofways. I·~ , I t's a familiar scene: Two words apply when making creases. Eventually you will hit a most practical way to lose weight. Workout partners, goal setting and I someone decides he wants to lose out a weight loss program-consis­maintenance (plateau) point where No additional equipment is neces­just plain looking in the mirror are l some weight, so he goes to drastic tency and discipline. Workouts you won't need to increase inten­sary. Unfortunately, for most all ways to motivate yourselfto 
measures to try and instantaneously must be done on a constant basis sity anymore to maintain your people, it's incredibly boring. work out. Goals are the best be­
~­
shed the extra load. (either daily or every other day) conditioned state. Aerobics: One ofthe most en­cause they tend to create an inner 
Starvation diets and marathon and intensity must be increased as Following is a basic list ofsports, joyable ways to lose weight. Great drive which helps to meet them.f workouts are typical paths taken by fitness increases. Aperson must be and their value, to help you get in for increasing flexibility and Plus, progress can be charted over a the uninformed person in his deter­disciplined in their diet as well as shape: stamina. period oftime.
( 
mination to lose weight. Unfor­their exercise. Tennis, raquetball and handball: Basketball: Good for losing
f. 
tunately, those don't work (yes, Good for losing weight and building weight, but unfortunately, games Beating the problem ofthe( starvation diets will make you thin, up cardiovascular endurance. Fun aren't usually competitive for a long "Freshman 15" is no problem at all
rl 
but will probably put you six feet to play. enough time. ifyou make a personal commitment
l 
under in the process). Awell Martial arts: One ofthe best to overcome it. Success in this area
l 
thought-out program can save you sports for developing personal carries over into all facets oflife; it's 
I( 
years ofwasting time with fad diets discipline and mental awareness. sort oflike killing two birds with and so called "fat burner" plans. Increases flexibility immensely. one stone. just remember to be<' Almost everyone has dreamed, at Swimming: Best overall sport for consistent and disciplined and
:( 
one time or another, ofhaving a
( developing a muscular physique everything will fall into place. ( . beautiful physique like that ofthe while simultaneously burning fat. Olympic gymnasts. One only needs
( 
to overhear a group talk about the An exercise program should start
I 
movie "Rambo," and how im­
with a short workout every other

f 
day for the first two weeks. Then, as realize how important good looks fitness increases, up to five and 1 are to our culture. Fitness is a to­eventually six days a week (Sunday 
pressive Sylvester Stallone looks, to 
tally personal thing; there's no one is the day to rest ). The key is to be
( 
to blame but yourselffor being fat. consistent in your workouts.
( 
( Workouts should initially be about a halfhour in length. As endurance( increases so should each workout session's length. Workouts should
l 
( never exceed two hours, because { the body hits a point ofdiminishing ( returns. ( Sample beginning program: 
Monday: Jog 1 1/2 miles.

f 
Wednesday:Jump rope (boxer( style) for I 0 minutes. 
r 
Friday: Swim I :) laps. Note the variety ofactivities. It is ( important to get in a variety so r workouts don't become stale. ( 
( For those who are exercise ( recluses, there are a variety ofex­I ercises that can be done in the 
privacy ofyour own room. Jumping rope is the best. Situps, pushups, 
-~--_,· -~i.:tt---~J~~-=, . 
miniature aerobic sessions with 
,, . :;,, ''~, your radio on ... the list is endless if you think creatively. 'The advantage 1; ofworkouts in your own room is that you can do them when it's convenient. 



Thursday, September 26, 1985 -page 8 -9 
Link to Emerald Isle 

Life underwater 


Kathy Martin 
features staffwriter 
I 
reland -famous land ofsham­rocks and shrines, ofcastles and Catholics, ofwhiskey and wearing ofthe green, of Patricks, potatoes, and priests. How many ofus honorary Irish here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, who romanticize about the myths ofthat tiny green isle, know anything about the real­life Ireland of today? 
Notre Dame sophomore Sean Evers says that the Ireland of the '80s is not exactly the pot o' gold at the end of the rainbow. Through his new club, the Irish Link, Evers hopes to lead club members away from these common misconcep­tions toward a greater appreciation of a contemporary Ireland. 
Evers, 19, currently is enjoying only his second fu11 year in America. He completed high school in Dublin at 16, spent a year in college in Galway, Ireland, and worked for three consecutive summers in New York City as a waiter. He applicd to and was accepted at some "Mickey Mouse co11eges" in America, but they were "nothing to cross the Atlantic for." In July of 1984, he applied to Notre Dame as a transfer student, but was accepted with freshman status. 
Notre Dame's nickname, the "Fighting Irish," evidently did not draw Evers to the University. Strangely enough, he had never heard ofthe nickname until after he was accepted and was wandering through the bookstore. He says he finds the name "a joke" now, but that he found the image ofthe leprechaun and the color green a bit insulting last year. It did not seem justifiable that the student body could claim this legend for 
their own, but know nothing abuut 
the real Irish. 
"America has such an interest in 
Ireland," Evers explains. Everyone 
he meets claims an Irish back­
ground, he says. "They're all so 
enthusiastic about it, which is great, 
but they really don't know about 
the Ireland oftoday. One girl ac­
tually asked me, 'Do you really have 
leprechauns in Ireland?' I joked, 
'Two to every house.' She was so 
serious." 
Others ask him if the Irish live on 
potatoes or even ifthere is televi­
sion in Ireland. Dublin, Evers' 
home, is a modern city with a 
population of 1.5 million, and has, 
according to Evers, one of the hig­
hest crime rates in the world. A 
large portion of Dublin's population 
is young and educated, but un­
employed. 
Nearly 50 percent of the Irish 
population is younger than 25, and 
the economy cannot possibly sup­
port them all with jobs, says Evers. 
He added that crime and drug ad­
diction are major outlets for the 
confusion and boredom of these 
young adults. 
Evers says that Dublin has the largest heroin problem in the world for individuals aged 1 5 to 25, be­cause the city lies along major heroin trading routes between America and the Netherlands. Of course, there still exists the "simpler life" in the rural areas of the West. 
As for his new temporary homeland, Evers is excited about the enthusiastic reaction ofthe two campuses to the Irish Link Club. Sixty students attended the or­ganizational meeting on Sept. 5. The format of the second meeting, held last Thursday, included a talk by 
Evers on Irish politics, a talk on 
Northern Ireland by Hugh McMan­
nis, an Irish graduate student at 
Notre Dame, and some American 
impressions of Ireland by Saint 
Mary's exchange program par­
ticipants. 
Evers hopes to get members to 
subscribe to daily Irish newspapers, 
to help them contribute to discus­
sions at the meetings. "I want 
everyone to be involved, to discuss 
the issues, and to formulate their 
own opinions," he says. 
Evers is in contact with the Irish 
Tourist Board in Chicago, and is 
asking for sponsorship and speakers 
from the Irish-American Society, 
which includes many Notre Dame 
alumni and parents. 
Other Irish students at Notre 
Dame agree that Evers' idea is a 
good one. "I find it ironic that there 
has been no Irish club on campu~. 
some sort ofsocial gathering at 
which Irish people on campus to 
meet," says McMannis 
What about those stereotypical 
Irish images, like potatoes, the color 
green, and a wild St. Pat's Day cele· 
bration( St. Patrick's Day in Ireland 
is a religious and national holiday, 
but is celebrated family style · by 
going to Mass. There's no green 
beer; the pubs are closed! 
The reputation ofthe "fighting" 
Irish probably comes.from the 
arrival and integration ofthe Irish 
immigrants, who were suppressed 
at first in America. As a close-knit 
community ofCatholics, they often 
had to fight physically for their 
survival. 
As for the leprechaun, "I honestly couldn't tell you where the leprec­haun came from, probably an old folklore story," Evers grins. "I couldn't give a darn about a leprec­haun. It's fiction, a story, nothing more." 


Gertie Wimmer 
features copy editor 
Above, sophomore Mike jaeger does some weight curling at the Rock. Weightlifting is not the only source ofexercisefor Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students, hower•er. Below, a group ofstudents does aerobic exercises at the ACC. Some otheractivities available around campus are basketball, swimming, jogging, or any variety ofNon­varsity Athletics. 
Photos by Chaitanya Panchal comforting indeed. 
W 
hat does it feel like to be reborn, to get a whole new concept of yourself and the world around you, to get a whole new feel about life and your place in it, all in under two hours? 
It feels great, it feels like heaven, and the only legal, moral and non­fattening way to do it that I can think ofis called "tanking." 
Movie buffs will remember this method from the flick of a few years past, "Altered States." But that's
I only the movies, you say. Not true.
I The experience is available to all interested parties, whether initiated or not, at Chicago's Space Time Tanks. But what exactly is tanking like? Although this.is as easy as describ­ing the concept ofNirvana to an ancient Druid, it can be done. I'll try to relate how it feels by describing my own experience in the tanks. 
The experience was a pleasurable one from start to finish. I entered the reception room which was carpeted in plush red. The piped music was mellow, as was my host, who kindly inquired as to my status. Since I was one of the uninitiated, he took me through the entire procedure, explaining the size of the tank. the temperature ofthe water I would be floating in, and the reason I would be floating, which is that the water is loaded with as rriuch salt as the Dead Sea. You cannot sink, a feature I found very Other comfortable features 
provided were my own fluffy towel, 
a room, shower, sunlamp, vaseline 
(to avoid irritating cuts in the salt 
water) and ear plugs. The tank itself 
is about eight feet long and four feet 
high, but you aren't supposed to sit 
up in it. Athough the water inside is 
only 10 inches deep, you never even 
touch the bottom. You just put your 
hands behind your head and float. 
The temperature is a delightful 98.6 
degrees, creating a womb-like ef­
fect. 
My pleasant and friendly host (his name was Phil ), then left me alone, all alone, in my room. The cus­tomers are advised to shower before they enter the tanks, al­though they don't have to. Even while I was deciding, and shedding my street clothes, I began to feel the thrill ofbeing my own master, in my own universe, with no one to tell me what to do; I was perfectly safe and completely in control. 
For the shower, Space Time provides shampoo, soap, and of course steamy water. You can put the curtain up, leave it down, turn on the sunlamp, or turn down the lights. You can even get right into the tank if you wish. Whatever you do, it's up to you. 
Eventually, the time for the actual tanking came, and I was forced to enter. I say forced because it is a bit ominous the first time. In this pitch black tank I was left alone with my own thoughts for a whole hour. Those who have never had that experience will be surprised how long an hour can be. I found that. due to the promptings ofmy friends, and due to my own precon­ceptions, I started thinking deep thoughts. 
Do not be alarmed. No one ex­pects you to solve the problems of the world in these tanks, although I am sure it is highly possible. I did not spend the time thinking about anything profound. I spent the hour enjoying myself, free from the ex­pectations ofthe outside world, free of time perception, free of obligation. Actually, I spent the hour free of thought. I spent it floating. Now how much would you pay? 
At the end of the hour, Phil gently tapped on the outside of the tank, being careful not to make my reentry into the world unpleasant. After my second shower, I got dressed again, resenting having to go "out there," but leaving with a slightly different attitude than I came in with. After a cup of herbal tea, which I drank while seated on a plush red velvet sofa with Garry Meier, Chicago radio celebrity, who was also going tanking for the first time, I left, a new woman. 
Tanking is an experience that gives you the same feeling you had when graduating from high school, that feeling ofa clean slate, ofstart­ing all over again. You will not leave with the same attitude you came 
with, either. 
Space Time Tanks is located on Uncoln Avenue, one block north of Fullerton Avenue in Chicago. That's not too far to travel to experience what I did. 

r 

Sports Briefs 
The ND field hockey team will play host to 
Hope College today at 3 p.m. on Alumni Field. -The Obseroer 
The ND women's tennis teamwm participate 
in the Northwestern Invitational beginning today and continuing through Sunday in Evansville, Ill.-The Obseroer 
ND Rowing Club members should submit money for betting shirts to Mike Songer in 823 Grace Hall today or tomorrow. A list oforders will be posted on the door. -The Obsen'er 
The ND Women's Cross-Country Club will participate in the National Cathlic Meet tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. -The Obsen.'er 
The Domer Runs are coming on Saturday, 
Oct. 5. The deadline for entries for the three-and six-mile events is tomorrow in the NVA office in the ACC. For more information, see page 16. -The Obseroer 
Thursday, September 26, 1985 -page 10 

The NO-Purdue football game will be broad­cast live Saturday on WVFI AM-64. "The Irish Today" pregame show will start at 11 a.m., and Chuck Freeby and Pete Pranica will have the play-by-play beginning at 11 :40 a.m. -The Obseroer 
The ND lacrosse team wm have strength testing with Gary Weil on Sunday at 12:30 p.m. in the weight room.-The Obseroer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will travel to Lake Michigan on Sunday. All club members who are interested should call Kevin or Brian at 283-1148. -The Obseroer 
The NVA kayakcourse still has spaces available for the Thursday classes. Call the NVA office at 239-6100 for more in­formation. -The Obseroer 
In interhall cross countryyesterday, Morriss~y 
Hall placed three runners in the top four to place first of 10 teams. 
Mark Brogioli finished the 3.3-mile course in 14:35 to take first 
place. Ray Kennedy and John Mundo placed third and fourth with 
times of 14:40 and 14:40.5, respectively. St. Ed's Jim Luke finished in 
14:39 to take second place.-The Obsen.Jer 
NVA 
continuedfrom page 16 
F-line in the North Dining Hall. 
Approximately 200 runners par­ticipated 'in last fall's runs, and more people are expected to run this year. 
"It's a growing tradition," Deren­goski said. "It's become quite an event over the years. It seems that everyone knows what the Domer Run is." 
AU. OFUS 

Unitedway 
1bt• Ohsen·t•r 'otrl' l>anu· otfin·_ lol atnl on tilt" tlurd floor of l.al ortUI1l' '-tulknt ( t·ntt-r. ant·pt., da.,.,iflnl ;uht·rt•.,ing lrom ') .tm until t_ p m . .\londa\ through Frida\ l'bt• ( Jhst'rn·r '-a1111 \tan 'ollllT. lol.tlnl on thl· th1rd lloor ol IIJAAJr <olkgl· ( .l'llll'r. Jlll'P" da..'ilinl' !rom I 2 ~~~ pIll IIIli il ~ r Ill -\lon­da\ though 1-rida\ lkadlmc fl>r IIC\1 da\ t b"1tlnl' '' ~ p m :\II t I.J'''tlnl' mu..t h~· prl'pa•u.nthn in pn...on or IH mail ( hargl· '' 10 lTill' Jlt'r liH· durat­



Classifieds 
tn... ·r dav. 

LOST:MY I.D. AT THE FOOTBALL LOST: ROOM KEY WITH KEY CHAIN I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY The secret to flying lies 1n knowmg how to ROOMMATE FOR SALE; qUJel. domes­
NOTICES GAME SAT. IT INCLUDED MY WITH NO CATHEDRAL. CALL 2736 OR GA'S OR 4 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT throw yourself at the ground... and m•ss. lie. strong larm•ng background. blue eyes. DETEX(IT'S A $30 REPLACEMENT DROP OFF AT ROOM 342 PW. 1733 OR 1757 B.C. 53 . brown cuny ha~r (gray•ng and shghtly FEE) SOME MONEY, AND MY PRAYER bald on the left s•de). but healthy"' Call CARDS TO ST. JUDE! PLEASE LOST CALCULATOR I LOST MY CAL­I nMd 4 ticketa for NO.USC. C.ll Mark R•ders needed to Clevetand-leav•ng 0007 for deta•ls. 
The Observer is now accepting applica­RETURN TO KATHLEEN, 218 B.P. OR CULATOR. ITS A HP-11C. PROBABLY at 258-88110. around 12:00 Fr~day Oct 4 and return•ng tions CALL 1275. LOST IN CUSHING OR FITZ. IF Sunday Oct. 6 around 5:oo-Call L•sa at I badly need G.A.'s for all home games. I never wanted to spend my ltfe attached
FOUND.PLEASE CALL BOB X1743 2955 Aui8Uint Syatema lienee-THAN)(_ Call Marty at 1 050. to a computer rermtnal. 
LOST: PLATINUM DIAMOND ENGAGE­MAKE A DRUMMER HAPPY AND TAKE For more information or an application, LOST IN POST MICHIGAN STATE NEED 2 OR 3 PURDUE GA'S CAll HIM HOME TO CHICAGO THE
MENT RING IN OR AROUND STADIUM pleae contact Mark Johnson et the Ob­OR ACC PARKING LOTS. GENEROUS GAME FESTIVITIES: Levi's denium GLORIA 284-4306 WEEKEND OF SEPT. 27. CALL MARK Theresa. server. 239-5303. Thanks for the clothes. espec•ally the
REWARD OFFERED. CALL DAVE AT back-pack/bag, containing betge purse AT 1532 blue sweater. I wift conatder them pay­
283-1649 and wool blazer_ If found. please contact PRODIGAL SONS NEED TWO ARMY Jo at 284-4424. G.A.'S TO GET BACK IN THE HOUSE. BEING HELD HOSTAGE IN ment •n return for not talktng to Mom and 
TYPING AVAILABLE LOST PAIR OF ADIDAS CLEATS. LEFT MONEY IS NO CONCERN TO US !! CLEVELAND TORTURE: MAKING ME Dad. 287-4082 
IN "A" LINE LAST WEEK. PLEASE PLEASE CALL TIM 4246 OR JOHN LISTEN TO GREATEST HTS OF THE RETURN. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 1628. KING FAMILY RANSOM: 8 GA's fOf Navy 
What are you try•ng to say?

CASH REWARD OFFERED. CALL 2002 CALL: 272-4531 TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8tt7 
FOR RENT
OR DROP OFF AT419STANFORD. 
BOSTON DOMERS LOOKING FOR Mark: Was that you wtth that man on your
WANTED-Dr~vers to del•ver The Obser·

USC TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY $$$ roof?
WordprOCMalng 
FOUND:Sharp electronic calculator, ver. Takes about 2 hours a day, good
CALL HELEN 2n-4324 EVENINGSCall Dolores 2n-6045 
found about a week ago in O'Shag. can money_ Dmers needed for aH days. If •n­
6:Q0-11:00
Chris at 1679 to identify. Student -two rooms. shower, pnvate terested can Mark Poner at 239-5305 or 
entrance all utilities paid 288-0955/2n-2450. TYPING-term papers, reeumes, leners. 
Help I need 2 Asmy GA's_ Have 1 USC RICK BLIHA: You football God. The
Stiver and orange bracelet found on North 3604 applications. Reuonllble rate~; p1ckup 
Stud and/or cuh to trade; call Ned 1043 sav•our of Keenan last Sunday. Con­
Quad last Friday. If m1ssing, pleale con­....' .................... ' .....•...' ••••.......• ' .....' ....... . SMC JUNIORS CHICAGO TRIP OCT 5 
gratulations from your section 1n theand delivery on campuaet available. Call 

tact Pat4241. 2 lg. bdrms. $270 incl. heat. Grade. near SIGN UP IN DINING HALL WEO-FRI cathy Schultz between S.10pm 2n-5134 
I NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET TO THE shoebox.
w/lide, 15 mins. from campus. caM 234­
ARMY GAME. CALL GR~G 3047 CHRIS COOKE: Whats 11 g01ng to be thiS 
LOST LOST!!! I lost a gold Elgin watch w/ 5570 after 4:30. Thank You St Jude weekend??"
brown leather band, prob-ably on Wed­DAVO MARCANTUONO: Go for •11Its a$1o-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! 
nesday the 18th. It could have left it in the Roommate needed to share 3br house THE RUSSIANS ARE COMING• OC­
once in a n•ghntme oppur1untly. 

No quotu' Sincerely interested rush self­dark room in the Art Building. Please, close to NO. Call 287-4748 HAVE 2 ARMY GAl NEED 2 UBC GA!! TOBER 11 Counesy of the dom.nanl 4 · Northaddreued envelope: Success. POBox 
please return it to me; it has great sen­PREFER TRADE 4035 470CEG, Woodatock, IL 60098. 
timental value and if I don't find it my mot­ALL THE SMIRNOFF ONE CAN 
her wiH KILL me. CALL JIM at 3414. Need 1 Asmy GA Call Brian 1605 HANDLE" OCTOBER 11 WANTED-Orlvera needed to deliver The 
Thanks 
WANTED 
NOTICE TO ALL THOSE WHO MillEDObserver. Take8 about 2 hours a day, I NEED 2,4,0R6 USC TIX, DAN 3475 WISHING NANCY MCDERMOTT A

good pay. If intere8ted caN Mark Poner at THE STUDENT LIAISON COMMITIEE
HELP ME. PLEASE!! I lost my football 239-5303 or 2450. Drivers needed for all OF THE SNITE MUSEUM wiN be havtng HAPPY BIRTHDAY YESTERDAY,
ticketl after the Michigan game between I NEED MANY USC TCKS. WILLING TO 
days. •ts second meeting ton•ght at 6:00pm 10 PLEASE BE lURE AND STOP BY HER
the stadium and St. louis St. If any kind Need ride to Dllyton any weekend. Call PAY GOOD$. CALL STEVE AT 4339. 
ROOM AT 204 P.W. OR CALL HER ANDthe SOlie concourse. All those •nterested 

hearted good Chriatian-type-of-fellov. Maria4174. 
10 an and the museum are welcome to at­CONGRATULATE HER.

finds them (sec 31 • student) please, I NEED 4 TIX FOR NO.UIC GAME. 
tend. T -sh•ns Will be on sale after the

pleaae, please call Bartl' 2721 (329 PW) NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO LEAVING WITAKE 2 lETS OF 2. CALL 2!16-41761. 
meet•ng.

9/27 RETURNING 9129.CALL CHRIS
LOST/FOUND I 
OR LISA AT 4401. 
REVENGE OF THE PINK PANTHER 2nd Lei •t be known that ROTC Joe 

lost: blue back pack in aouth DH 9124 
in a senes of 4 Peter Sellers films to be Sch-nlnger.though he has never letNEED 2 AIR FORCE-NO TIX FOR Awest end at lunch contents: canv. Con­

LOST: Man's brown rosary, possibjy in or shown in the Annenberg AudJiorJum of the legahty stand'" hts way in the past. has of 
WANTED-Drivers needed to deliver the COLORADO FAN!! CALL KEVIN 4103 
near CCE on Friday Sept 13. Pleue caN verse 1hoes. T.H. South T-shir1 and Smte Museum_ Show limes: tontght at today turned 21. Now that he no longershorts.socks and notebook if lound 
Observer. Takes about 2 hours a day.
Bob at 233-2784. 7:00pm and 9:30pm Cost $1.50. has to worry about what or how he does 
good pay. Drivers needed for all days. If NEED 2 GA'S FOR ARMY_ CALL 284­
please call Kathleen at3884 THANKS! 
Sponsored by the Student Ltaison Com­things. please come by room 712 Graceinterested call Mark Potter at 239-5303 or 5523

LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. mtnee of the Smte Museum. and help htm figure out ways to celebrate. 
2450.

LOST: BLUE JANSPORT BACKPACK NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE ARMY GAME. 
PLEASE CONTACT ALICE IF YOU AT SOUTH DINING HALL, TUESDAY,KNOW OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. VERY 
LUNCH, 24 SEPT. IF PICKED UP CALL CALL SUE 284-5477. 
IMPORTANT. 232-6069 
MY SISTER IS GETIING MARRIED Mark's SYR date alsosa•d-"I don't know•f CARRIE. WE KNOW YOU HAVE THE287 5623, OR DROP BY BASEMENT OF 
AND I AM IN THE WEDDING. HER the ceding needs painting ton•te because FR\:EDOM TO WEAR UNDERWEAR IN Lost: Purple book bag on 9/18 at the ARCH. BLDG. ASK FOR ALF. 
SHOWER IS THIS WEEKEND. I NEED A my eyes etther couldn't focus or were THE HALLWAY. OUR QUESTION IS aouth dining haU. please return by caNing I NEED GAa FOR PURDUE.272-630S 
RIDE HOME. I LIVE' IN CHICAGO closed... "Otd you spell my name nght and WHAT COlOR IS IT? -G.O me at2n-8336 or drop•ng it off at the lOIII 
(ACTUALLY' A SOTHWESTERN SUB­put down my phone number?" 
& found office Really need my notes and Thia Minnesotan has lost his ~ght blue im­URB OF CHICAGO). CAN YOU HELP I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S FOR PARENTS­HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY books. Thanks whoever you are? Ike itat•on "Members Only" jacket some­
ME OUT? IF YOU VALUE LARGE. CALL283-3536 Mtkey sa•d. "My phys•cs test was a 4.57. EILEEN BOOKER'where in O'Shag or La Fortune and will 
CLOSE, CATHOLIC FAMILIES AND and I have my own answer sheet · Pany at GoodWill? 
HEY DOMERSII1 My blue NO bookbag have to resort to wearing hts heavy JBCket. 
YOU DON'T WANT TO SEE ME EX­was taken from the South D.ntng Hall after capable of preserving life through severe 
PELLED FROM MINE, PLEASE GIVE SENIORS! Pre-game Par1y NO-Purdue
NEED TWO USC G.A.'S
dinner Thursday the 19th. Contents: 2 brizzards, unless it is found. Call 3584 ME A RIDE HOME. I WILL BE HAPPY TO CAll JIM 28.3482 s-7 PM_ Sept.28 9am to game ttme 11:40 Look for watches, room keys, very important 
SHARE GAS EXPENCES. ETC. IF YOU Senior Class Flag_ Look for Maps to be 
CHRIS BABY WE'RE GLAD YOUp1ych. book and notes. PLEASE caH me 

CAN HELP ME OUT CALL MAUREEN d•stnbuted 1n dorms and at Sentor Class FINALLY MADE THE BIG 18. HAVE Aat4051. Thanks. 
AT 2871. THANKS' Cocktail Party. Refreshments• 
STOLEN: BROWN "INDIANA JONES" WILD ONE. LOVE THE GIRLS OF 104 & STYLE HAT. MY LITILE SISTER SPENT Help us avoid the Beantown blues. Give OF COURSE, CARLTON I I PERSO/I C­LOST THURS GOlD HEINEKIN 
Senior Class Cocktail Peny1 TONIGHT

THREE WEEKS SAVING HER Al­Need nde to Cleveland 9127 Cal Debbie us a ride to Boston or vicinity for October 14411 11//0 II 0926 II 0927 OH TESSWATCH.SENTIMENTAL VALUE-I 9pm-1am Monogram Room Semo-F ormal 
LOWANCE TO BUY IT FOR ME AND )(2966 break. Call Maria 4174. BABY:
WEAR IT TO ALL OF THE An~re. 21 I.D. ReqUJred 
SHE WILL BE SHATIERED IF I COME EVEN IN 85-86. WE'RE WATCHING
PARTIESPLEASE CALL CHRIS AT HOME WITHOUT IT. PLEASE RELIEVE NEED TWO USC GA'S. WILL PAY TOP YOU.
3810 FOR REWARD. 
OKTOBERFEST' OKTOBERFEST10K­

YOUR CONSCIENCE AND MAKE MV DOlLAR OR TRADE YOU LSU GA'S 
........ 
TOBERFEST1 WATCH FOR DETAILS' 

LITTLE SISTER HAPPY AGAIN CALL FOR THEM. CALL JODix3693.
LOST: BLUE BACK PACK (JANSPORT) FOR SALE 
1644 OR DROP IT OFF AT 169 DILLON HEY CLANCE. WHAT'S UP? I hope youIN SOUTH DINING HALL DURING GO BREEN-PHILLIPS FOOTBALL!
(NO QUESTIONS ASKED) THANKS have a good weekend at the block party. 
LUNCH ON 91t 9.1F FOUND OR PICKED Kill lyons on Thursday night' 
UP BY MISTAKE, PLEASE CALL I'm sure you WIH1Have a good day 
Be mean and tough and thtnk VICTORY! 

1976 CHEVETTE NO RUST, VERYTERESA AT 3491 OR TAKE IT TO THE 
PERSONALS
SHARP. 56,000 MILES. 4 SPEED $1800 CAN BE SEEN MONDAY SEPT.23 
LOST AND FOUND OFFICE LOST: N.D. BASEBALL HAT IN MAIN 
(LAFORTUNE). I NEED THE BOOKS CONCOURSE A.C.C I NEED IT CATHY LOGSTON--Thts 11 YOUR per­
John "Big Guy" Ritz: I enjoyed nui'SlngPLEASE CALL 233-2090.

AND NOTES FOR TESTS. BEFORE THIS WEEKEND. LARGE sonal" By the way. what were you doing
Don't tum away from possible futures you back to health. You should get lick
REWARD. PLEASE RETURN TO 216 roam•ng around leMans at 3:30 last
before you're certain you don't have more often' And about that dinner, when 
MACINTOSH' MUST SELL! MAKE OF­
I HAD MY STUDENT TIX BEFORE THE STANFORD OR CALL 2084. weekend?' (And you dtdn't think I'd print 
anything to learn from them. do I get to collect? anxiously awaibng onFER! 277-8452 
MSU GAME. NOW I DON'T_ I WOULD it!) Have a great week•md'!'
an empty stomach' NB LOVE TO HAVE 
You're always tree to change your
1973 VW BUS. GOOD TRANSPORTA­
THEM.$$$$$$$$$$$5$$$$ I THINK I To teddy bear bandits who kidnappedTION. $500. CALL 233-7297 AFTER 6 
FOUND: NO Footban llckets illllde mind and choo.e a different future. or a Karen. 
LOST THEM AT SENIOR BAA. PLEASE stadium on Saturday. They're for the baar when "friend" dropped him out wm­
dtfferent put. I got the blouse, thanks for plaCing the dow at le Mans. I am willing to pay ran­
CALL LARRY AT X11n. I WILL IDEN­senior sect'on Call me to identify: Laura P.M. -R•chard Bach. lllualona. order. Sorry lm tatk•ng to you thtsway, but TIFY THE SECTION AND SEAT NUM­at272-3764 som. Leave him in a plam brown bag at Le
as you know. we are never both home at BER. THANK'S Mans desk and I'M share care package w/
OAR HOUSE: COlD BEER & LIQUOR the same t•me' 
LOST: PANASONIC CASSETIE FMIAM you. Pteue return. He has great sen­
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 ru come up and 1ee you soon. In the LOST: AT THE COMMONS SAT NIGHT. RADIO PLA YEA. LAST SEEN ON FIRST bmentat value. Call SuSie 5076 
TICKETS BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. meantime, it you see my hght on make 
I LOST M'i NO RUGBY JACKET. FLOOR. AUGUSTA HALL. SMC. 
sure you stop •n. I would enjoy talk•ng to PLEASE RETURN IT AND THE KEYS PLEASE RETURN TO PATIY FALLON. 
Take me home to Ch•cago and I'M be your you.INSIDE REWARD GIVEN CALL JIM AT AM. 226, 284-5341. NO QUESTIONS THERESA-HAPPY 21ST HOPE YOU
fnend forever. I need a ride the weekend ME 287-5425 ASKED. I NEED A PURUE TICKET!! UIA-2955 of Sept. 27. Call Fran at 2687. HAVEAGREATOAYALISA 

The Observer Thursday, September 26, 1985 -page 11 
Farley 
continued from page 16 
tough defense and enthused of­fensive firepower as it whitewashed Walsh, 13-0. 
"We have a veteran defense returning and a rookie offense with a lot oftalent," comments B.P. captain Ann Schwartz about her team's lineup this season. 
Tuesday, Walsh was able to even up its record at 1-1 by defeating Badin ( 0-2 ) by a I 3-6 score. 
Today there are three games being played on Cartier Field. At 7 
p.m. Lyons, 0-1 after its tough loss to 
Purdue 
continuedfrom page 16 
12-8 advantage before Purdue called 
timeout. 
Whatever Boilermaker coach 
Carol Dewey said during the break 
was certainly taken to heart by her 
team, as Purdue quickly earned a 
side out. Cheryl Flowers then 
proceeded to serve seven con­
secutive points, as Purdue roared 
from behind to win game one. 
Flowers proved to be a thorn in 
Notre Dame's side in game two as 
well. Not only did she consistently 
set up Smith's spikes, she served six 
straight points to give Purdue a 9-3 
lead. 
Farley, will have no easy task as it takes on a talented B.P. squad ( 1-0 ). 
Following the Lyons-B.P. matchup, the defending champions, Farley ( 1-0 ), will face a rebuilding Lewis team ( 0-1 ). 
At 9 p.m. will be the Pasquerilla war, as undefeated P.E. (I-0) will face also undefeated P.W. ( 1-0 ~ 
Then on "Sunday, P.E. will face Lewis and· P.W. will be pitted against Walsh. 
Depending on the outcome of Thursday's games, the 7 p.m. Sunday matchup on Cartier field could be the greatest battle since Patton met Rommel in the African desert. 
"They have something that we dearly want back," says B.P.'s 
c.;am.r.tant·~~s"1~ Worldor in 
You'll read that Steefcase ''...has an extraor­dinarydedication to turning qut Q~ality products.... and a by;-pt()c:tuct of thatdedication is an iron detern1'ination to dorigl);tby,its.p~()ple.. ;'' . . St.,elcas~. The Office 
We're amon.g the t... 
t() work for tn ·. ·· · 
.·!"' 
Bul don't just take 
This time it was Notre Dame's tum to chip away at a lead. After closing the gap to I 0-6, Shea served three straight points, including an ace, to pull the Irish within one. 
Once again, Dewey called timeout and Smith came to life. The Purdue middle blocker stuffed one over the net to make it 11-9 and stop the Irish streak. Following another Purdue point, Smith scored aces on consecutive jump serves, and the Boilers were on their way to a I5-I0 win. 
Game three boiled down to a battle between Smith and NO's Karen Sapp. The two spikers matched each other kill for kill, before Sapp gave the Irish a I0-9 lead with a fine cross-court spike. 
~-..,.---UPln Tftf1100 Best 
Schwanz of her team's possible con­frontration with Farley. "That gives us a great deal of incentive. We'll be going after them with a few things that they havn't seen before." 
The situation is simple: Farle~ wants to keep its crown, while B.P. dearly wants to recapture it. The two team's effusive enthusiasm for victory is evidenced by the number ofplayers who tried out for the team -70 from Farley and 50 from B.P. 
The season is still early, but agreat deal is riding on each game as the women complete the first two games of a seven-game slate. There are some classic matchups today and Sunday, with games startingat 7 p.m. on the turf at Cartier field. 
But guess what happened? You got it -Dewey called timeout, and the Boilers heated up again. Purdue served the next six points of the game to end the match with a 15-10 win. 
Besides a fine performance by Smith, Purdue received II kills from Kim Corwin. Sapp led the Irish with nine kills, while Shea added five to pace the offense. 
Lambert, however, was happy with virtually everybody who played. 
"We've come together with a lineup that makes sense," notes Lam­bert. "We're showing improvement, and I was really pleased with this ef­fort tonight." 
.......:............................ 
Baseball Standings 

NATIONAL LEAGUE  AMERICAN LEAGUE  
Eaet  EHt  
w  l  Pet.  GB  w  l  Pet.  GB  
St. Louis  96  56  .632  Toronto  95  56  .629  
New York  92  60  .605  4  New York  89  62  .589  6  
Montreal  79  73  .520  17  Baltimore  79  71  .527  15.5  
Philadelphia  71  79  .473  24  DetrOit  79  73  .520  16.5  
Chicago  71  80  .470  24.5  Boat on  76  76  .500  19.5  
P1ttsburgh  52  98  .347  43  Milwaukee  67  84  .444  28  
w...  Cleveland  55  99  .357  41.5  
LOI Angeles  89  63  .586  WHt  
Cincinnati  82  68  .547  6  Ca11forma  86  66  .566  
Houston San Diego Atlanta  78 77 62  74 75 89  .513 .507 .411  11 12 26.5  Kansas City Chicago Oakland  85 78 74  66 73 78  .563 .517 .487  .5 7.5 12  
San Francisco  59  93  .388  30  Seattle  71  81  .467  15  
Minnesota  70  82  .461  16  
Ynterdlly'a Reautta  Texas  57  94  .3n  285  
Chicago 5, New York 4 Pittsburgh 8, Montreal2  Ynterday'a R..utta Cleveland 7. Oakland 2  
Atlanta4.Cincinnati2(1t inngs.)  New York 10. Detroit 2  
St. LOUIS 6, Philadelphia 3 Houston 6, Los Angeles 4  Mmnesota 5, Texas 1 Milwaukee 3. Baltimore 0  
San Diego 7, San Franasco 4  Boston 4. Tor onto 2  
California 7, Chlcago4  
Kansas C1ty 5. Seattle 4  


Joe Niekro wins first game for Yankees; Jays lose, 4-2 
Associated Press  being forced to leave with a bruised  
right shin.  
NEW YORK -Joe Niekro won his  The Yankees got one run offjack  
first game as a Yankee as Don Mat­ Morris, 15-I 1, in the first inning on  
tingly drove in four runs, two on a  Dave Winfield's RBI double.  
home run, and New York beat the Detroit Tigers 10-2 last night.  Red Sox 4, Blue jays 2  
Niekro, 1-1 since coming to the  
Yankees from Houston on Sept. 12  TORONTO -Rookie Mike Green­ 
to join his brother Phil, allowed four  well's first major-league homer, a  
hits in five innings' work before  two-run blast in the 13th inning,  
powered the Boston Red Sox to a 4-2  
victory over the Toronto Blue jays  
last night.  
The loss, coupled with the New  
York Yankees' 10-2 victory over  
Detroit, cut Toronto's American  
League East lead to six games. The  
Blue jays' magic number remained  
at six.  
AL  
Roundup  
Bill Buckner started the inning  
with a double to shallow left field .  
Greenwell then drilled a 1-0 pitch  
over the right-field fence against  
reliever John Cerutti, 0-1, the  
seventh Toronto pitcher.  
Right-hander Steve Crawford,  
who started the I Oth for the Sox, im­ 
proved his record to 6-4. Tim Lollar  
got the last three outs for his first  
save.  
Pinch-hitter Jeff Burroughs  
homered in the bottom ofthe ninth,  
tying the game. It was his first homer  
since July 30 and broke an 0-for-18  
slump as a pinch-hitter.  
Brewers 3, Orioles 0  
MILWAUKEE Randy Ready  
singled and doubled, scored twice  
and made a key diving outfield grab  
against Baltimore as the Milwaukee  
Brewers defeated the Orioles 3-0  
last night.  
Jaime Cocanower scattered eight  
hits and five walks to improve his  
record to S-7 and break a four-game  
losing streak.  
The Brewers opened their scoring  
in the first inning. Ready singled  
with one out, moved to second on a  
wild pitch by Orioles starter Mike  
Flanagan, 4-5, then scored on a two­ 
out single by Ted Simmons.  
Indians 7, A's 2  
OAKLAND, Calif. -Ben Ayala and  
Chris Bando hit two-run doubles  
and right-hander Keith Creel posted  
his first victory of the season as the  
Cleveland Indians beat the Oakland  
A's 7-2 yesterday.  
Creel, 1-5, making his first start  
after a three-month stay in the minor  
leagues, scattered seven hits over 6  
2-3 innings. He walked two and  
struck out four before giving way to  
Dave Von Ohlen, who went the rest  
of the way.  
Ayala's two-run double gave the  
Indians a 2-0 lead in the first off Oak­ 
land starter TommyJohn, 4-10.  


f­
----------------~--------._..._____________.. 
\ .. The Observer Thursday, September 26, 1985 -page 12
' 
-

\ 
\ \ \ 
I 
' \ \ \ 
\ 
'I 
\ 
\ 
l 
l \ ) 
\ 
\ 
' 
'\ 
' ' 
~ 
\ 
\. 
\ 
\ \ \ 
~ ~ 
\ 
l
\ 
\ 
~ ~ 
\ 
1 
~ ~ ~ 
) ~ ' 
5 
j 
~ 
.~ 
\ 
<; 
'\ 
~ ~ 
\ 
~ ~ 
) 
) 
( 
~ 
\ 
.. " \ 
-, 
' I 
\ 
i ) 
) 
' 
~ 
) 
~ 
) ) 
! ~ 
~ 
I 
s 
l 
" 
~ 
~ 
\ 
i 
-y­
Comf!_uter Science Majors 




IDEAS 



he Travelers Now make the 
doesn't right move. To The 
believe in cut-Travelers ACCENT ting corners. program. Where you'll 
In fact, when it find high visibility. comes to data process-Varied learning experi­ing careers, we've got a ences. Career growth sharp edge on the potential. And your competition. Because Q own IBM PC-to take our ACCENT program home with you. As a is designed specifically Q key member of a pre­far Computer Science '----.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil mie r financial services majors. It's a fast-company, you'll enjoy paced, challenging training program. a competitive salary and complete bene-Offering diverse asignments leading to fits. Plus generous relocation assistance. key management positions. So, bring your talent to The Travel-
All in an advanced environment-ers. Where we put the accent on people. the largest IMS shop in the industry. With And you get the edge on a successful 19 IBM mainframes. A 23,000 terminal career. SNA network. Sign up for our campus interview 
But, our commitment to DP doesn't schedule. Recruiters will be on campus stop there. We're gearing up for the Friday, October 11. Or send your future-with the purchase and installa-resume or letter of interest to: Priscilla tion of 12,000 IBM PCs. And, we're look-Pellett, 30-CR, The Travelers Companies, ing for several enthusiastic people as One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183. recruits for our next ACCENT program in our Hartford, Connecticut home office. 
If you have a degree in Computer Science or a related discipline, ·high academic achievement, exposure to 
Data Processing

hardware and software, and some pro­
For Dedicated People.

gramming experience, you have the right credentials for ACCENT. If you're a highly-motivated person, 
TheTraveler~ 
an independent worker, and an innova­tive thinker, you have the right chemistry for ACCENT. 
The '1hMtlersCompanies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. An Equal Opportunity Employer 
___ ,..,. 
The Observer Thursday, September 26, 1985 -page 13 
Cards reduce magic number to seven with 6-3 win 
A I0-hit Cards attack backed The loss, combined with the Car­Danny Cox, 17-9, who scattered dinals' win last night, dropped the
Associated Press nine Phillies hits in seven innings. Mets four games behind first-place ST. LOUIS -Tommy Herr hit a Jeff Lahti pitched the last two in­St. Louis in the National League East. three-run homer and Vince nings for his 18th save. Coleman stole three bases and scored three runs, leading the St. Louis Cardinals to their sixth 
NL 

straight triumph, a 6-3 decision over 
Cubs 5, Mets 4 
the Philadelphia Phillies last night. 
CHICAGO -Pinch-hitter Chris 
Roundup
St. Louis' 13th victory in 14 games Speier's two-out single in the bot­reduct>d the its magic number to tom ofthe ninth inning scored Dave seven in the National League East. Lopes from third base and lifted the Reliever Jesse Orosco, 6-6, struck 
Charles Hudson, 7-13, took the Chicago Cubs to a 5-4 victory over out the first two batters in the ninth loss. the New York Mets on yesterday. then walked Lopes. 

celebrating 

After Lopes stole third, Bob Der­nier walked. Speier then batted for reliever Lee Smith, who is 7-4 after pitching two hitless innings ofrelief. 
Braves 4, Reds 2 
CINCINNATI Rookie third 
baseman Wade Rawdon's two 
throwing errors in the 11th inning 
allowed the winning run to score as 
the Atlanta Braves posted a 4-2 vic­
tory over the Cincinnati Reds last 
night. 
Los Angeles also lost last night, 
meaning the Reds remain six games 
behind the front-running Dodgers in 
the National League West. 
Gene Garber, 6-6, pitched two in­
nings, allowing one hit, to gain 
credit for the victory. Rick Camp 
stopped the Reds in the 1 1 th for his 
third save. 
Reds reliever Ted Power, 7-5, 
worked the last I 2-3 innings and 
was the loser. 
Pirates 8, Expos 2 
PITTSBURGH -Rick Reuschel won his fourth straight decision with a five-hitter and Tony Pena drove in three runs as the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the Montreal Expos 8-2 last night. 
Reuschel, 14-7, who has eight complete games in his last nine starts, was working on a four-hit shutout until Tim Wallach hit a two­run homer in the seventh, his 21st of the season and third in as many games. 
Sid Bream's first-inning single scoredJoe Orsulak, who singled and stole second against Montreal starter Bill Laskey, 5-1 5. 
Astros 6, Dodgers 4 
HOUSTON -Kevin Bass hit his 14th homer ofthe season in the 1Oth inning to rally the Houston Astros to a 6-4 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers last night. 
Jim Pankovits singled to right field before Bass broke the 4-4 deadlock with a homer over the right field fence off reliever Tom Niedenfuer, 7-8. Julio Solano, 2-2, pitched the 1Oth inning and got the victory. 
Despite the loss, the Dodgers maintained a six-game lead over Cin­cinnati in the National League West after the Reds lost 4-2 in 11 innings to Atlanta. 
Padres 7, Giants 4 
SAN DIEGO -Steve Garvey singled twice to drive in a pair of runs and Graig Nettles drove in two runs with a double and a single to help LaMarr Hoyt to his 16th victory as the San Diego Padres beat the San Francisco Giants 7-4last night. 
Hoyt, 16-8, went seven innings, scattering seven hits, walking one and striking out three. The walk to Dan Gladden in the seventh inning was the first Hoyt had allowed in his last four starts and only his 20th in 203 1/3 innings. 
The Giants bunched three oftheir hits in the first inning when they scored a run to take a 1-0 lead. Jeff Leonard singled in {Jladden, who had opened the gamewith adouble. 
Roger Mason, 0-2, took the loss. Rich Gossage pitched the last 1 1/3 innings for his 25th save. 


The Observer Thursday, September 26, 1985 -page 14 

By MARlY STRASEN 
Sports Writer 
The initial practice for the 1985 Notre Dame football team was slightly more than a week away when junior defensive back Scott Rogers decided he would not put on the pads. 
Instead, he would oil up his glove and head out to the ball field to work on some hitting. He had juggled the two sports in the spring of 1985, and had finally come to the conclusion that he would dedicate himself to the Irish baseball squad. 
\;' 

"Last spring I thought I could play both baseball and football," Rogers says. "I would finish baseball practice and hurry over to play foot· ball. A lot of times I would miss two out of four baseball games on weekends and I was never at my best. At the end of the spring, I told Gerry Faust I was thinking ofswitch­\., ing my scholarship to baseball." 
Rogers' choice pleased Larry Gallo, head coach of the Irish baseball team. Gallo's squad cancer­tainly use the services of the In­dianapolis native in the outfield, after dropping a pair of doubleheaders last weekend to W es­tern Michigan and Bethel College. The Irish will look to redeem them­selves this weekend as they host Spring Arbor College on Saturday and St. Francis College on Sunday in another pair oftwinbills. 
"It was one of the more disap­pointing weekends since I've been coaching here," explains Gallo, who joined the Irish squad in 1980. Rogers was one of few standouts, belting a home run to centerfield in Sunday's second game. 
He is certainly not new to the game ofbaseball. He earned four let­ters in the sport at Carmel High School in Indianapolis, and was named Olympic League Most Valuable Player in his junior year. 
Tisdale near an agreement with Pacers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Pacers and No.I draft pick Wayman Tisdale are "pretty close" to reach­ing a contract agreement, Tisdale's brother says. 
Weldon Tisdale, who is helping negotiate the contract, said negotia­tions with the National Basketball Association club have resumed but "nothingconclusive has happened." 
"Things don't look bad at all. In fact, they look fairly good," said W el­don Tisdale. He said most ofthe con­tract language has been worked out but some other details still need to be resolved. 
"We're hopeful things are solved before the week is out," he said Tuesday. 
The Pacers open preseason camp 

i. tomorrow at West Lafayette, and Weldon Tisdale says he hopes his 
brother is under contract by then. The Pacers hope to have Tisdale 
i 
J
·, signed in time for an exhibition
i 
) game against the Sacramento Kings Oct. 6 at Norman, Okla., where Tisdale starred for three years at the University ofOklahoma. 

The New York Knicks reportedly gave Ewing, an All-America from Georgetown, up to S1 S million for six years. 
"Ewing's contract tells us a lot about the market value and it could help Wayman, but Ewing's deal was based on his No. 1 status and the fact that he's in a big money market," said Weldon Tisdale. 
'The Pacers also are trying to decide what to do with guard jerry Sichting, a Pacer veteran and free agent who signed an offer sheet with the Boston Celtics Sept. 12. 
NO's Rogers decided on baseball 
NFL Standings 
NATlONAL CONFERENCE 
&.t  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
N.Y. Giants  2  1  0 .667  68  40  
Dallal  2  1  0 .667  85  47  
St. Louis  2  1  0 .667  85  78  
Philadelphta  1  2  0 .333  25  44  
Washington  1  2  0  .333  36  76  
Central  
Chicago  3  0  01.000  91  59  
DetrOit  2  1  0 .667  60  62  
Minnesota  2  1  0 .667  83  70  
Green Bay  1  2  0 .333  46  70  
Tampa Bay  0  3  0  .000  57  89  
Weet  
L.A. Rams  3  0  01.000  72  46  
San Francisco  2  1  0  .667  90  54  
New Orleans  1  2  0  .333  70  94  
Atlanta  0  3  0  .000  71  107  

Sundlly'a Gemee Dallas at Houston, noon Green Bay at St. Louis. noon 
L.A. Raiders at New England, noon Minnesota at Buffalo, noon 
N.Y. Giants at Philadelphia, noon 
Seattle at Kansas City. noon Tampa Bay at Detroit, noon AMERICAN CONFERENCE Eat 
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Miami  2  1  0  667  84  39  
N-England  2  1  0  .667  50  54  
N.Y. Jets  2  1  0  .667  66  37  
Indianapolis  1  2  0 .333  30  81  
Buffalo  0  3  0 .000  26  73  
Cenlnll  
Pittsburgh  2  1  0 .667  72  20  
Cleveland  1  2  0  .333  48  54  
Houston  1  2  0  .333  39  59  
Cincinnati  0  3  0 .000  92  113  
w..t  
Seattle  2  1  0  .667  101  94  
Denver  2  1  0 .667  94  71  
Kansas City  2  1  0  .667  83  78  
San Diego  2  1  0  .667  93  99  
L.A. Raiders  1  2  0 .333  61  70  

Washington at Chicago, noon New Orleans at San Francisco, 3 p.m. Miami at Denver, 3 p.m. Indianapolis at N.Y. Jets. 3 p.m. Atlanta at L.A. Rams, 3 p.m. Cleveland at San Diego, 3 p.m. Monday'a Gemea Cincinnati at Pittsburgh, B p.m. 

"He's an excellent athlete," says Gallo. "He has very good speed and tremendous power · more than I think he realizes. His throwing arm is short and needs quite a bit of work, but he realizes that. I'm definitely looking to start him in eit· her left or centerfield." 

Scott Rogers 
Leaving the Notre Dame football team to play ba-,eball, certainly a less popular sport on campus, seems strange. But for Rogers, the choice was one that had been put off too long. 
"I had been thinking about baseball for some time," he says. "After my injuries (a concussion and a torn ligament in his thumb suffered during last year's football season), I really started considering it seriously. It was tough for me in the spring because I coutdn't get men­tally ready to play. I felt I was divid­ing my time, and my grades were suffering too." 

Rogers had played on the third string of the football team for two years, seeing only occasional action on special teams. Faust told him he would take to the field on special teams more often if he decided to play this year, but by the end of the summer Rogers had made his deci­sion. 
"I really appreciate what Coach Faust did for me · letting me play baseball but still keep my football scholarship," Rogers says. "I don't have any regrets at all. I enjoy watch­ing the football games and the guys on the team are still my friends. Right now I'm thinking one thing · baseball. We've got a great bunch of guys here and the best coach I've ever played under. I'm glad I changed." 
The addition of Rogers as a full­time outfielder can only serve to better the Notre Dame squad, which finished last season with a 24-24 record. 
Finance Club Ne-wYork Trip Meeting 7ptn TONIGHT Hayes-Healy 
This is a mandatory meeting for all interested in fall break trip to New York firms 

Tonight: South Of The Border Ni A_ht $.90 Tequila Drinks . $1 Me xi cen Beers 
-Coron81 Do:s Equi:s & S8n Miguel 


~~~4t)l~----------------------------------------•T•h•u•r-sd_a_y_,_se_p_t_e_m_b_e_r_2_6_,_1_9_8_5
__-__P_ag•e---15 


Bloom County 
SO. 1HfY 577t.L. INSIST rt+t Au.ll P!N6f/IN. Wat., I Sr.Re KNCW WHIIT I 7HINK Af3(}(JT 7HI1r: 
Zeto 
in~Y C-lA)S, 'vVC \tJILL 
t>1 scuss RCAL. rrv, SE"CAJSE' ITS VS'RY 
l=OSSISLE' THAT ALL Ol= 
THIS IS uVST A 
REAM. 
The Daily Cross"Word 
ACROSS 1 Afr. antelope 6 Fabricate 
10 "-a Teenage Werewolf" 14 Foyt or 
Andretti 15 Tied 16 Boutique 17 Gus Edwards 
song 19 Prong 20 Shoe width 21 Bucket 22 Invoked evil 24 Great in scope 25 Toaster type 26 More pallid 29 Water bearers 32 Evil spirit 33 A Marx 34 Rank 35 Dies­36 Peace goddess 37 Donate 38 Abner's father 39 Flavoring herb 40 Shaded 
©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 41 Understandings AU Rights Reserved 43 Snarl 44 Copycats 9 Settle 45 Double agent securely 46 Spur to action 10 "Everything­48 Handle roughly in part"49 Lab animal 
11 John Schon· 52 Himalayan goat berger song 53 Gus Kahn song 12 Superior 56 Big bird: var. .13 Went 56 MPH 57 Bulwer-Lytton 18 Den heroine 23 Capable of 58 Prodigious 24 One to Otto 
clout 25 "Common . 59 Disorder Sense" author 60 Hennaed 26 "-romance..." 61 Chemical 27 Warning device 
DOWN 29 Board game 1 Gaelic 30 Ludlum work 2 Spikethe 31 Scandinavian 
punch 33 Shouts 3 Throb 36 Feartess 4 Mod 37 GWTWword 
5 Discontinued 39 Dill 
6 Corpsman 40 Huntsman's cry 7 Grandparental 42 Gr. region 8 Essential 43 Track man 
IHPnlPl' / THilT'5 WHilT 
I THINK. 
12  





Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Kevin Walsh 
M MAI((3E A COCJ<E'R 
SPANIE"L N,A11CDTl1ADE"US 
IS ~AMIN 6 THAT WE 
DR~M/N<7 T~T Y.E'f£ 
I 
DRE'AM/N6 ~p:r WERE' HE"RE! HOW ABOvr 1HA: 
CLASS?! 

Wednesday's Solution 

45 Defeated 49 Branches 
in29D 50 Tucked in 46 Particular 51 Phoenician 47 Title seaport 48 Biblical word 54 A Campanella 
on a wall 55 Crate 
Campus 
•3:00 
P.M. -Varsity Field Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Hope College, Alumni Field, 

•4:00 
P.M. -Kellogg Institut~ Lecture (In Spanish), "El juicio alas juntas militares ar­gentinas del periodo 1976-1983", Emilio F. Mignone, attorney, The Kellogg Advisory Council, 131 Decio, Sponsored by The Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies 

•4:30 
P.M. -Junior Varsity Field Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Hope College, Alumni Field, 

•6:00 
P.M. -Meeting, Student Liaison Com­mittee ofthe Snite Museum, Concourse ofThe Snite Museum, New members welcome 

•7:00 
P.M.. Thursday Night Film Series, "Kwaidan", Loft 

•7:00 
and 9:30 P.M. -Peter Sellers Film Series, "Revenge of the Pink Panther", An­nenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Liaison Committee of the Snite Museum, S1.50 

•7:00 
P.M. -Reception/ Presentation, Arthur Andersen, Consulting Division, Notre Dame Room, .\1orris Inn, Sponsor,ed by Career and Placement Services, Open to all in· terested students 




Notre Dame Wine Baked Ham Turkey Pot Pie Cheese and Lentil Casserole Brown Derby Sandwich 
TV Tonight 
8:00P.M. 16 Cheers 
28 Lady Blue 
34 A Walk Through the 20th Cen­
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M.  16 46 16  tury: "The Helping Hand" Night Court Light for Living Hill Street Blues  
22 28 34  Knots Landing 20/20 Mystery: "Rumpole  and  the  

Female of the Species" 
•7:00, 
9:00 and II :00 P.M. -SAB Film, "Brian's Song", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Bo~trd, Sl.OO 

•7:00 
P.M. -Meeting, For all representatives to the Anti-Apartheid Network, Center for So­cial Concerns Auditorium, Sponsored by Anti­Apartheid Network, Meeting will be followed with a showing of the film "Six Days at Soweto" and a brief piece on the life of Rev. Allen Boesak 

•7:00 
P.M. · 10:00 P.M. -junior Class Premiere Party, Knights of Columbus Hall, Sponsored by junior Class 

•7:30 
P.M. -Meeting, Center for Social Con· cerns, Sponsored by RASTA, New members welcome! 

•8:00 
P.M. -Meeting, Center for Social Con­cerns, Sponsored by F.L.O.C. · Notre Dame Student Support Group 

•8:00 
P.M.-Lecture, "liturgy and Social Life in the Early Church", Rev. Balthasar N. Fis­cher, Professor Emeritus of Trier University and visiting john A. O'Brien Professor of liturgy, Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Theology Department 


Saint Mary's Veal Parmesan Batter Fried Fish with Tartar Sauce 
10:00 P.M. 
10:30 P.M. 
11:00 P.M. 
Spinach Crepe  
B.P.T. Potato  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Masterpiece Theater: "The Irish  
R.!'.t."  
46  Manna for Modern Man  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Columbo/New Avengers  
28  ABC News Nightline  
28  Eye On Hollywood  
34  Film  Du Jour: "Abraham  Lin­ 
coln"  

Dinner Menus 

--·----·---­

,.----. 
t
,w 
.. 
\ 
~ 
Thursday, September 26, 1985 -page 16
Seorts 
\'  
~  
I  
I  \  
I  ,.  
'  
\  
\ '  
~ 
I  

I ' I \ I \ 
\ 
\ 
I ~ 
I \ . 
I ' I \ 
1\ 
't 
' \ 
I ', 
I ' 
I \ 
' 

\ 
\ 
.. 
\ 

J \ 
\ 

junior kickerjohn Carney, shown here booting one ofhis ]pur field goals against Michigan, has been a solid perfonner on the Irish special teams. Larry Burke examines the role ofspecial teams play in Football Notebook below. 
ND beaten by Purdue in three straight games 
By CHUCK FREEBY leyball of the season before drop­
Sports Writer ping to 2-7. 
"If we had just one player who 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -It could put the ball away like Smith 
became clear last night there is only does, we could have won tonight," 
one thing keeping Notre Dame from said Notre Dame coach Art Lambert, 
beating a top-20 team. who was noticeably pleased with his 
Her name is Marianne Smith. squad's effort. 
Smith, Purdue's All-American Even without a player the caliber 
middle blocker, scored IS kills and of Smith, Notre Dame still gave the 
seven blocks· as the 20th-ranked 8-0 Boilers all they could handle. 
Boilermakers defeated the Irish IS-The Irish started strong, capitaliz­
12, 1 5-10, 1S-10 before an as­ing on Purdue errors to jump on top, 
semblage of 437 spectators at 5-0. Both teams traded points, as a 
Purdue's Intercollegiate Athletic Maureen Shea spike gave the Irish a 
Facility. 
Most of Smith's big plays came at 
see Purdue, page 11 key moments for the upstart Irish, who played some of their best vol-
By PHIL WOLF 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The annual Domer Runs are scheduled for Saturday, Oct. S. For the fifth consecutive year, a six-mile race will be run, and for the second time, a three-mile event also will be held. 
Starting time for the three-mile run is I 0 a.m., and the longer event will begin at I 1 a.m. 
The runs are open to Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate stu­dents and to all faculty and staff of the University. Varsity cross-country runners are not eligible. Registration should be completed by tomorrow in the Office ofNon-Varsity Athletics (NVA). 
The emphasis of the runs is on both competition and fun, accord­ing to Sally Derengoski of NVA, sponsor ofthe event. 
"Lots of runners out there don't partaopate (in races) because they're just not into the competi­tion," Derengoski said. "That's why our race is neat; there are not so 
Irish fans have 
Sept. 14, 1985; Notre Dame vs. Michigan: In the opening moments of the second half, Alonzo Jefferson mishandles Rick Sutkiewicz's kickoff and the Wolverines' Dieter Heren recovers the ball on the Irish 14-yard line. Three plays later, Michigan's Jim Harbaugh scampers into the end zone on a quarterback draw to erase a six-point deficit and put the Wolverines ahead, 10-9. Michigan goes on to win the game, 20-12. 
"That fumble was definitely the big play we needed," Michigan tailback Jamie Morris said afterward. "The.·e's no doubt that was the turning point in the game."· 
Sept. 21, 1985; Notre Dame vs. Michigan State: In the opening moments of the second half, Tim Brown takes Greg Montgomery's kickoff, bursts up the middle of the field, leaps over a pile ofdefenders, cuts to the sideline .tnd outruns the last three Spartans for a 93-yard touchdown. The Irish turn a 7-7 tie into a 14-7 advantage as Notre Dame goes on to win. 27-10. 
"After that the coaches reminded us that even with those seven points we still had a long way to go," recalled Irish linebacker Tony Furjanic. "But there's no doubt that that touchdown was a great lift for us." 
Suffice to say that the kicking game and special teams play an intergral part in football on any level. As has been the case in Notre Dame's first two games, critical plays by members of the special teams often can swing the momen­tum in favor ofthe team that ultimately comes out on top. 
The irony of last Saturday's game was that on a day when their most consistent special teams player, placekicker john Carney, had an off day, the Irish still won convinc­ingly. 
Against Michigan the week before, Carney's four field goals were all the offense: ~otre Dame could muster. Against Michigan State, Carney missed two long field goals 
B.P. looking to take Farley's title in 1985 flag football season 
By KEVIN HERBERT ball, however, and with under a Sports Writer minute remauung Farley took possession less than SO yards away 
One ofthe true qualities ofa great from victory. team is th1: ability to win, even if that "It was a shock factor," recalls Far­team does not play to its abilities. ley captain Marilu Almeida. "We saw 
Last year's interhalll flag football how close we were to losing, and we champions, Farley Hall, said to one another, 'there's no way 
demonstrated this Tuesday as they that we are going to be defeated."' did not play well, yet managed to Farley finally mounted two pull off a last-second, come-from­scoring drives after being stymied 
behind victory over the women until the last minutes ofthe contest. from Lyons. With 18 seconds remaining, the 
With a little over a minute remain­defending champions pushed the ing in their confrontation, Farley ball into the endzone to win the trailed Lyons by a touchdown. Far­game, 14-12. ley fought back and scored a touch­"Our chances are pretty good for down of their own, the score was repeating as champions," says Al­called back because ofa penalty. Far­meida. "'We just want to have fun, ley was forced to punt, and it looked but if you don't win, then you can't as if the defending champs were have fun." going to be upset in the first week of Farley will face some stiff com­the season. petition, however, as this year's flag 
Lyons was not able to move the football teams look to be talent-Jaden. 
Pasquerilla Ea.,t, runner-up last year, steamrolled over Badin in both squad's opener. The game was never in any doubt as P.E. trounced their South Quad foes, 34-0. 
In the other two Sunday games, Pasquerilla West downed Lewis, 20­6, and Breen Phillips defeated Walsh, 13-0. 
"We had a lot of very talented seniors graduate last year," says Lewis captain Diane Schnell about her team's opening day defeat. "We had a lot of penalties in Sunday's game. Ifwe're going to be successful 
this  year,  then  we'll  have  to  
eliminate our mist akes."  
Tied  for  third  with  Lewis  last  

season, and spirited to get revenge, is the flag football perennial power, Breen Phillips. Sunday, B.P. showed 
see Farley, page 11 

Domer Runs scheduled for Oct. 5 
many competitors. It's a fun event." Derengoski said the three-mile event is mostly for those who want 
to  have  fun,  while  the  big  com­ 
petitors  are in  the  six-mile  race.  
Anyone  may  enter either  race,  
however.  

T-shirts will be awarded to all run­ners who finish either race. Trophies will be given to the top male and top female finisher in each division (undergraduate, graduate, faculty and staff) in each race. In addition, everyone who registers for a run is eligible for one of several door prizes to be distributed. A S4 entry fee will cover the cost ofthe awards. 
The runs will begin and end in front of the physical plant, and the runners will traverse the campus and circle one or both lakes, depending on whether they are run­ning three or six miles. An aid station with water will be set up by the lakes, and Red Cross volunteers will be on hand to assist anyone in need ofhelp. 
Split times will be provided at each mile, and refreshments wiJI be available at the finish line. Order of finish and race times will he posted for each runner. 

Derengoski said that the six-mile race has been won by a graduate stu­dent almost every year. Last year, the winning time was 31 :11. Under­graduate Tim W esthoven won his division in 32:37. 
A I 0-kilometer race, the Sportsmed 1OK, will be run in South Bend on Sunday, Oct. 6, but Deren­goski said she does not expect that many students will drop out of the Domer Runs. 
"I don't think we'lllose a lot ofstu­dents,.. she said, "because this is their race. They own this one." 
Although registration is scheduled to close tomorrow, an ad­ditional registration period is planned for next week. NVA will set up tables to register participants during the dinner hours on Monday inside the South Dining Hall and by 
see NVA, page 10 

seen the importance ofspecial teams 

Larry Burke 
Football Notebook 
and an extra point, but the rest ofthe special teams players 
picked up the slack with some big plays-like Brown's kick­
off return and a blocked field goal by Brandy Wells that 
preserved a 10-point Irish lead and set up Notre Dame's 
final touchdown. 
"The special teams are just as important in football as 
offense or defense," says Notre Dame assistant head coach 
Mal Moore, who is handling the Irish special teams this 
year. "All the successful teams have a sound kicking game­
on both the kicking and receiving ends. 
"Ym.i;ve got to be solid in all phases ofthe special teams. It can make the difference between winning and losing a football game. About one-third of each game involves the kicking game, so there's a lot more involved than people realize." 
The Irish entered the 1985 season with several question marks in the special teams area. One of these was at long snapper, where senior Rick DiBernardo was being counted on to handle the duties. DiBernardo has had experience as a long snapper for Notre Dame, but a broken wrist suffered in 1984 made his status somewhat uncertain. But to this point in '85, he consistently has been on the mark with his snaps. 
"So far we've been pleased with Rick; he's been doing a good job as our long snapper," says Moore. "He has done 
some snapping for us before, as a backup to Kevin Kelly 
two years ago, so our main concern was how he would 
come back from his wrist injury. But it hasn't seemed to 
have affected him." 

Another special team question mark that may be answered is at punter, where junior Dan Sorensen has done a solid job ofreplacing Mike Viracola thus far. In nine punts this season, Sorensen has averaged better than 42 yards per kick. Against the Spartans last Saturday, he nailed a 52­yarder. 
"Dan has done very well so far." says Moore. "His average is good, he's been getting the ball off in good time and his mechanics have been good. He's made a lot of progress since last year." 
The Irish also are trying a new holder for placements this season, a position which Viracola held last year. The choice was quarterback Steve Beuerlein, and so far the results have been favorable. 
"We're going to stick with Steve as our holder for kicks," says Moore. "We think he'll be succesful there. He's done the job so far, and I think he'll continue to be consistent. He and Carney have that relationship that a holder and a kicker should have." 
EXTRA POINTS -ABC opted earlier this week to televise the Oct. 5 Notre Dame-Air Force game at Colorado Springs, with a scheduled starting time of 2:30 p.m. EST. Notre Dame's game this Saturday at Purdue will be carried by WNDU-TV ( Ch. 16), and will air at 11 :30 a.m. 
Injury report: linebacker Mike Larkin (sprained ankle ) and free safety Steve Lawrence (aggravated hip flexor) were upgraded from questionable to probable on Monday night, while wideout Alvin Miller (hip flexor) and guard Tim Scannell (ankle) also should be back at full strength for Saturday's game. 







