
ND Food Services -pages 8,9 

VOL XIX, NO. 110 thl" imkpcndent ~tudc.:nt lll"w~papl"r ~t:rving notn: Janu: and saint mary·~ FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1985 


Proposed funding cuts will take loan eligibility from 2 million,students 
By DIANE SCHROEDER 
News Staff 
A proposed 25 percent cut in fun­ding for higher education which would chain students to greater debts with loans requiring repay­ment of over 1 5 percent has been proposed by President Reagan for fiscal year 1986. 
These loans will be obtainable only through private institutions and thus will be inaccessible to many students. 
Of the total $2.3 billion cut, S2.2 billion will come from student aid. Some two million students would lose their eligibility for federal grants or loans. 
All other forms of aid would be reduced drastically. Aside from direct aid, categorical support pro­grams would also be abolished, in­cluding foreign language and area studies. 
The lower and middle classes will be hardest hit by the proposed cuts, affecting nearly every student who receives some form offinancial aid. 
One argument for the reduction ofthe Guaranteed Student Loan Pro­gram is that students must become more responsible for the cost of higher education. 
However, as Notre Dame's Stu­dent Lobby Commissioner Karen McCloskey said, "Part-time employ­ment and work-study programs are insufficient means to finance a full­time college or university eduaca­tion at an independent institution of higher learning." 
see FUNDING, page 4 


Run-off elections won by Georgi, McDonald 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
StaffReporter 
Steve Georgi and Tom "Beaver" McDonald were victorious in yester­day's runoff elections for sopho­more class president and off-campus commissioner. 

In the sophomore race, Georgi The Observer/carol Gales received 594 votes (53 percent) to
Do you know where you're going ? 
the 532 votes ( 4 7 percent) ofhis op­

With spring break approximately a week away, cards adz,ertising for drivers or passengers. The 
ponent, Ted Smith. Each had earned

the rider board on the first floor of LaFortune is method of modern ride-bitching apparently has 
28 percent of the vote in Tuesday's

plastered from California to Florida with calling spread nationwide. 
election forcing the runoff. The off-campus race saw McDonald earn 162 votes (57 percent) to opponent Race Thoman's 123 votes ( 43 per­cent~ . 
Georgi said a runoff was "inevitable." All the candidates were well prepared and worked hard, he said, and the time and efforts the candidates put into the race "shows their dedication to the class." Through "perseverance," he now plans to "work hard to improve the class." 
see ELECTION, page 5 


Student Senate votes to add two proposed amendments 
By SCOIT BEARBY 
StaffReporter 
The Campus Life Council will still be able to accept or reject Student Senate proposals, but class presi­dents no longer will be able to vote in the Senate, according to a vote taken last night at a special Student Senate meeting. 
The senate postponed voting on a third amendment to the Committee to Restructure Student Govern­ment's plan to alter the current gov­ernment structure. The amendment would put the Student Activities Board under direct control of the senate. 
The overall CREST plan calls for one senator to be elected from each hall and from off-campus. The func­tion of the senators will be to serve as legislators on four standing com­mittees. 
While this general structure has gained the approval of the senate, other portions of the restructuring proposal have not. 
At last night's meeting, the senate took up the issue of what role the CLC will play in future years. The amendment to the CREST plan called for the CLC to serve as an ad­visory council and not to serve as a voting body on senate resolutions, as it currently functions. By a 9-5-1 vote, the amendment was defeated. 
Arguments for the amendment were led by Executive Coordinator for Student Interests Doug Wurth. 
He argued that the CLC, currently composed of faculty, rectors, admi­nistrators, and students, does not need to vote on issues which the ad­ministration will approve or disap­prove anyway. 
Wurth further said Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson does not need the CLC to make decisions. Documentation supporting an idea will determine an idea's passage or failure, he con­cluded. 
Other senate members countered Wurth's arguments and were able to vote down the amendment. 
Joanie Cahill, Hall Presidents' Council representative to the sen­ate, said, "student government has to work with the administration since they have th~ final say-so." 
Student Body President-Elect Bill Healy and Vice President-Elect Duane Lawrence echoed Cahill's statement by saying student govern­ment would become weaker if the CLC was made an advisory body. 

"Stronger proposals  can  be  made  
with  more  interaction  with  the  
CLC," Lawrence added.  

Healy did comment that he is thinking about asking the Notre Dame Board of Trustees to change the composition ofthe council in or­der to have equal representation of rectors, administrators, faculty, and students. This, he hopes, will make the CLC more effective. 

A second amendment to the CREST plan proposed that class 
presidents continue to serve as voting members of the senate. The senate voted by a 3-2 margin to defeat the amendment and exclude class presidents as voting members, as CREST originally proposed. 
Senior Class President Dean Christy and Sophomore Class Presi­dent Jim Domagalski led the un­successful attempt to establish class presidents as voting members in the restructured government. 

They argued that class presidents were elected representatives with specific interests, interests which they feel hall senators could not rep­resent adequately. 
The two also argued that their fin­ancial interest and their social role on campus were also reasons class 
presidents should  serve  as  voting  
members.  
The  two-thirds  of  the  senate  

which rejected the amendment saw Domagalski and Christy's points, but felt that presidents did not need a vote. Wurth summed up the amend­ment ~pposition by stating, "It's not an issue of how we listen to them." 
He said the senate will continue to value the input of the classes even if the presidents do not have a vote. 
Wurth also said adding presidents to the voting body would dilute the legislative authority of the elected senators. 
"Adding people to the Senate would help to bring back the hodge­podge we have right now," Healy said. 
Determing whether the Student 
Activites Board should become a 
part of student government was the 
third topic ofdebate. 
Accoording to Healy, the SAB would become a branch of the presidential cabinet. 

No major revamping of the SAB would take place in the coming year, but the branch would be in the posi­tion to be incorporated into the standing committees or left as it is now after the CREST system has been in operation for at least one year. 
Although Healy stressed that the SAB is functioning well, making SAB part of the student government would ensure better accountability to the senate. 
After some di~ussion, the meetingwas adjourned due to previ­ous commitments by some of the senate members. 
According to current Student Body President Rob Bertino, the third amendment to the CREST pro­posal will be discussed at the next senate meeting on Monday. 
Bertino is not sure when the over­all CREST plan will go into effect be­cause ofsenate differences in trying to decide the large task of what is best for Notre Dame student govern­ment. 


Get them now 
ByKEVIN YOUNG 
News Staff 
March 8 is upon us, and if you're a Notre Dame senior and haven't turned in your commencement ticket request, there are only a few more hours for you to do so. 
According to Rebecca Shafer, director of Notre Dame's com­mencement, all seniors must turn in their commencement ticket requests, check the spelling of their names and home towns for the diplomas, and pick up their announcements by 4 p.m. today. Changes made after today will cost the procrastinator S 10. 
Each potential graduate who returns the form by today will receive four tickets. Requests received after tod~y will be ac­comodated on a first-come, first-served basis. 
Ticket requests can be submitted and the commencement pro­gram checked in the Registrar's Office from 8:30a.m. to 4 p.m. 

The Observer Friday, March 8, 1985 -page 2 


Student Saver's success depends on hours, marketing 
The high-tech horn of plenty may soon be 
empty. The U.S. Bureau of Labor projects that of the 28 million new jobs in the next decade, only 1. 5 million will be high-tech and of those, experts warn, most will not require specialized degrees. The experts urge computer science majors to acquire good communica­tion and secondary skills to fall back on. -The Observer 
The English department announces its annual writing contests open to Notre Dame undergraduate students. Two contests are open to graduate students. The contests include the Ernest Sandeen Poetry Award, the Samuel Hazo Poetry Award. the Academy ofAmerican Poets Prize (open to graduate and undergrad­uate students), the Richard T. Sullivan Fiction Award, the William Mitchell Award for Playwriting, the john T. Frederick Prize for Literary Criticism (open to graduate students only), and the Meehan Medal for Literary Merit (essay· on any subject -open to seniors only). Students may obtain contest rules and further information in Room 309 O'ShaughneSsy. All entries must be typed, identified only by an attached card with author's name and address, and submitted in duplicate to 309 O'Shaghnessy by 4 p.m. on Thursday, March 28.­
The Obsen•er 

The stock market saggedto a six-week low yes­terday under the pressure of continuing interest-rate worries, ex­tending the decline that set in Wednesday. The DowJones average of 30 industrials, down 11.48 on Wednesday, fell another 8.84 to 1,271.53. That marked the average's lowest close since it stood at 1,270.43 on Jan. 24. The market has been beset lately by concern over rising interest rates and fears the upswing in rates has further to go. The prospect was reinforced in many investor's minds when Chairman Paul Volcker of the Federal Reserve talked Wednesday of the possibility that the dollar might tumble from its recent lofty heights in foreign exchange. -AP 
The trial Of four people in Panama City, Fla., accused of bombing offices where abortions were performed was postponed yesterday until April15. U.S. districtJudge Roger Vinson said he wanted to give both sides more time to prepare for the in­sanity defense expected to be used. The trial had been set to start Monday. Vinson also set an April 10 deadline for plea bargaining. Two men and two women, ages 18 to 21, are accused of violating federal firearms and explosives laws in the Christmas Day bombings ofa women's health clinic and two doctors' offices in Pensacola. The men also are charged with a June clinic bombing. Three attorneys associated with Notre Dame are among those defending the four. ­
AP 

Of Interest 

"Corporate and Professional Women: 
Strategies for Success," will be the topic ofa panel discussion led by Cynthia Bieniek and Ann Moss ofGeneral Motors. Those wishing to attend must sign up by Monday at the Career and PlacementServices office in the lower level ofMemorial Library. -The Observer 
Chris's Ice Creamis sponsoringa week-long competi­tion March 8-1 5 to benefit Notre Dame's Millions Against MS cam­paign. The dorm with the most sales per person during the week will be treated to a free ice cream party. Celebrity scoopers, including ND coaches and athletes, will be dishing out the ice cream at various times throughout the week. A percentage ofsales will be donated to the Millions Against MS drive. -The Observer 

Weather 
Mosdy sunny tomorrow with a high in the low to mid 40s. It will be mostly cloudy tonight with a low in the low to mid 40s. And, if you don't know already, there is a 50 percent chance of showers today with a high, you guessed it, in the mid to high 40s. -AP 



Tbe OMena (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throUJih Friday and on home: football Saturdays, rxcrpc during exam and vacation pttlods. The 0~is publishc:d by thrsrudcnts of the: Univnsity of Notre I>amr and Saint Mary's CoUqe. Subscriptions may be purchasrd for S30 prr year ( S20 prr sr­mcstrr) by writing lbe Obllcn-er, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Obeerver is a mrmber of The AMociatc"d Prns. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Daign Editor................. Maurttn Murphy 
Design Assistant ............ Man Gracianeur 
Layout Staff....................... Marirll..abrador 
TypeMttns ...................... Bill Highduchrck 
Vic Sciulli NnA!$ EdttOI" ...........................Marc Ramirrz Copy Editor..............................Janc: Kravci.k Sports Copy Editor....................... PhU Wolf Vkwpolnt Copy Editor .........John Hnsly 
Mary Elkn Harrington 
VIewpoint Layout................John MenncU F~turf!S Copy Editor..........John MennrU F~tures Layout ................... Andi Schnuck ND Day Editor ......................Mark Winters SMCDay Editor.............................Ed Nolan AdDesign ............................John O'Connor 
Mary Carol Creadon Photographer............................Carol Galrs Typist ................................ Bill Highduchrck 

that the inventory problems having the combined unit were an unavoidable part of open all afternoon. Such a starting a business. "People merger would fit in with came in and saw our empty LaFortune renovation plans shelves, and that was disap­quite nicely and would pointing for them and for us lower labor costs substan­too," he says. tially. "It has to happen," ht; 
Schimpf believes he has says. ordering down pat, but For short-run survival, having enough goods on however, Schimpfwould do hand represents only a small well to seek a few marketing victory for the Keenan Hall whizzes, because the cam­junior. Truly serving stu­paign so far has been a typi­dents requires quite another cal lifeless, directionless strategy, and Schimpf S.A.B. affair. Now two minces few words in months into operation, describing the obstacles: many students still do not "The things holding us back know exactly what the store 
Soap is a big seller. So is shampoo. And yellow high­lighters would go faster than Keenan Revue tickets. 
But at the Student Saver store, soap is sold out. Ap· proval to stock highlighters is being sought from the administration. Shampoo, however, fills several shelves. 
Free enterprise, one might suspect, is otl to a shaky start on the second floor of LaFortune. Open now al­most two months, the Student Saver averages only S50 in daily sales volume. Customers trickle in sporadically, and often the only person in the store is the checker. 
Anyone involved in a similar operation would have sought Chapter 11 protection by now. But Rick Schimpf, manager ofthe store, harbors no doubts about the future of the Student Activity Board's latest retail outlet. "We will be in operation next year," he says with capitalist confidence that would make Adam Smith proud. 
Moreover, Schimpf insists 
are our restricted inventory and our hours." 

The inventory restrictions came with the store itself. As a condition for the Student Saver's approval, the managers agreed not to stock the same items as the bookstore. Therefore, any new good must be approved by the administration, specifically Father Francis Cafarelli, assistant vice president for student services. 
This week, Schimpf plans to present a list of 23 addi­tional products -including contact lens solutions, tape, dishwashing liquid and highlighters-to Cafarelli, and he is optimistic about stocking them soon. "Thus far he's really been supportive of the store. He's been very flexible with our demands and our wants;" Schimpf says. 
But a little-known clause in the agreement may jeopardize the success of the store even more than the inventory hassles. According to the agreement: "The Student General Store will operate during non­operating hours of the bookstore." Essentially, that means late afternoon ( 3 to 7 p.m.) -not bad, but the store loses out on any chance of tapping into the 
Mark Worscheh 
Managing Editor 
lucrative LaFortune lunch crowd. 

It is clear that for the Student Saver to achieve long­term success, an expansion of the hours ofoperation is vital. The store's second-label products supposedly now do not complete directly with the stodgy Hammes Bookstore's products. So having both stores open at the same time should not endanger revenue at Hammes. 
The best suggestion -and one endorsed by Schimpf­would be to combine the operations ofthe record store with the Student Saver, 



sells, among other prob­
lems. 

"I think one problem is the location -a lot ofpeople don't know where it is," says Andra Liepa, a checker at the Student Saver. Schimpf, an accounting major, says .he has tried, but working with the S.A.B. Publicity Com­mittee -where marketing innovation stops at the table 
tent -has been a taxing task. 

"I've given them a couple ofideas, and they just didn't 
get the job done. Maybe some of those ideas wouldn't 
have worked, but it still is a little frustrating," he says. 
The mood remains upbeat nonetheless. Shoppers are 
supportive, and Father William Beauchamp, executive 
assistant to the president, even stopped by recently to 
make a purchase and wish the store well. 

"A lot ofpeople ask how the store's going, and ifwe're getting stuffin. They usually say it's a really good idea," says Liepa 
For Schimpf, the task at hand is turning that good idea into a good store. Succeeding means getting the goods, getting the hours, and letting students know about them. 

Communl~ation & Theah·tt Flltn8 at the Snit• lndiv. admission $2.50 Series tickets also available 
Tua. Mar.12 Andrei Tarkovsk11'1 acclaimed 1983 
Fri. Mar.8 

Alfred Hltchcock'sl956 clasak Nu.talq!a The Han Who K!!f"l!! Toe MyLh with Jimmy Strwart 11n<' "--•· Jay
7:30& 9:45 
7:30 & 9:40pm 
Mon. Mar.ll Luchlno Vk<:•mtl'~ 
Puth rn Vf'nice 19711 based ' ' ·! by Thomas Manr. 



CANCER. 
NOT 
KNOWIN& 

THE RISKS 
ISYOUR 
&REIIEST 


RISK. 

Please 

support the 
AMERICAN 

CANCER 

'SOCIETY~ 

This space contriW<oJd as a pubirc servrce 
------··---------~ 
The Observer Friday, March 8, 1985 -page 3 




Pedaling for charity 
Sophomore Mike Burgoyneseems to bepedaling asfast as hecan for Zabm Hall in the North Dining Hall yesterday as part of the campus drive to fight Multiple SClerosis. Burgoyne el•entually reached a top speed of35 m.p.h. 

Off 


® 
Getting through college isn't easy. But help is on the way. Because Domino's Pizza is offering you financial assistance on your next pizza. The Pizza made with 100% natural cheeses and fresh. not frozen toppings. And we'll deliver it, custom-made, to your door in 30 minutes· or less. GUARANTEED. Call Domino's Pizza and help yourself to the best tasting pizza around. 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 
DELIVERSTM FREE. 
I 
II 
$2.00 off anyI 16"'-2rtem ptzza. 
Offer qood at
I 
listed locat1onsI Good I Fn., Sat.,&. Sun. I I 
Our dnvers carry less than $20.00 

Fast, Free DeliveryTM Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave South Bend Phone 277-2151 
JTC NA 102 2650 1984 Dommo s P•zza Inc 



Notre Dame Credit Union offers new 48-hour check/draft clearance 
By KERRY HAVERKAMP 
StaffReporter 
The Notre Dame Credit Union is now able to ckar local checks and drafts in 4H hours, rather than the previous I 0 days, after becoming the first credit union to join the Mic­hiana Regional Clearing House Asso­ciation on Feb. I 5. 
Ruth Kelly, president ofthe credit union, heard of the clearing house when asking the Federal Reserve about clearing out-of-state checks in five days. Those checks now have a 21-day hold. The new system should be instated in September. 
The credit union investigated the pissibility of joining the clearing house and applied for admission in October oflast year. 
It was accepted after being voted in by the seven other banks in the association -First Source Bank, St. Joseph Bank, National Bank and Trust, Valley American Bank, Mid­west Commerce Banking Co., First National Bank of Elkhart and Salem Bank. 
Kelly cited lack of knowledge about the association and not knowing if credit unions would be welcome into an organization com­prised only of banks as reasons for not joining the clearing house ear­lier. 
Larry Wagner of Valley American Bank, who assisted the credit union in joining the association, said the reason no other credit unions have joined is that none have applied. 
The association is a local organiza­tion in which members can clear checks and drafts more quickly. Settlement is made with the Federal Reserve Bank in Chicago. 
Wagner said the credit union was admitted because they wished to be and they were unanimously voted in by the other members ofthe associa­tion. 
The unanimous vote, said Wag­ner, is proof the banks were welcome to allow a credit union 
• into the clearing house. Wagper pointed out that joining the clearing house not only ex­pedited handling oflocal checks, but also cut costs for the credit union. 
Kelly said this lowering of costs would allow for greater growth by the credit union and would prevent rising costs for students. 


Saint Mary's curriculum hoilored 


By SHANNON OAKES 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's curriculum is not declining, contrary to statements that appeared in the South Bend Tribune and elsewhere. In fact, Saint Mary's was one of the colleges picked to participate in the study of college curriculum across the country conducted by the Associa­tion ofAmerican Colleges. 
"The Association of American Colleges picked the colleges very carefullv." said Gail Mandell, profes-
Now open at 11 am for LUNCH 

sor of humanistic studies at Saint 
Mary's. "They were considered to be 
the best oftheir types." 
Saint Mary's was the only Catholic women's college to participate in the study. 
"The project was on redefining the meaning and purpose of bacca­laureate degrees. We had a whole se­ries of conversations. We were asked to share ideas. Much of the report was built around our experi­ence as colleges," said Mandell. 
The first draft of the report prepared at the end of the study titled "Integrity in the College Cur­riculm" was compiled by Linnea Vacca ofthe English department and Mandell. 
Three other professors from Saint Mary's participated in the investiga­tion: Margaret Cavanaugh of the chemistry and physics department; Donald Uorning, department of sociology; and William Hickey, the vice president and dean offaculty at Saint Mary's. 
The Association ofAmerican Col­leges had called for a retraction to be printed soon after the faulty stories appeared. 
"The original reports were wrong," said Mandell. "We were analyzing and giving them (the asso­ciation) the criteria to analyze other schools." 
Saint Mary's has recently com­pleted an evaluation and update of its own curriculum. 



The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Circulation Manager Ad Design Manager 
Questions about these positions should be _ directed to Sarah Hamilton. Personal statements and resumes are due Monday, March 11 at 5 p.m. 
LONG ISLAND FOR SPRING BREAK 

The L.l. Club bus still has room! 
Departs 6:15 Friday March 15 Stops in Hempstead & Islip Road trip only S 73.00 Call Pete 2453 or Kathleen 2905 tor full details. GO LONG ISLAND! 
Tlae Classes o.f'86 & '87PreseJJt: 
Monte Carlo Night 
in the South Dining Hall 
Tonight from 9:00-1:30 Dancing to "Cold Drinks." Carnival Games. Domino's Pizza. and the San Diego Trip Drawing AU proceeds go to the MS Drive 


AU Are Welcome 
1984 Do<mno's P1zza Inc 

The Observer 

Friday, March 8, 1985 -page 4 




Grad student describes 
Observer names general board 


father's imprisonment 
Yesterday The Observer announced the selection of 11 students to complete its general board for 
should know his name because Raza 1985-86. 
Kamin is known throughout the 
Dan McCullough, a junior English major, will con­country." 
tinue in his position as news editor. McCullough is For Kamin, an attorney in Pakistan 
from Oak Lawn, Ill., and has served as The Observer's and a writer, it had been "three years 
news editor since April 1984. He also has worked as since he was politically involved," 
a news copy editor and senior staff reporter. said Raza and that a "military coup 
Keith Harrison also will serve as news editor.He is had been threatening." 
a sophomore from Pittsburgh, Pa., and is majoring in Raza said a military official who 
American studies. Harrison has been assistant news has been charged must have told the 
editor of The Observer since November 1984. government his father's writings 
Before that he was a news copy editor. gave him the inspiration. 
The features department again will be headed by "The dictators are determined to 
Mary Healy, a junior Arts and Letters pre­make an example out of him," Raza 
professional and government major. Healy was said. "I don't see any chance of him 
named features editor in April 1984. Healy's past ex­being released in the near future. 
perience at The Observer includes assistant news "The secret trials are supposedly 
editor, assistant features editor and design editor. on camera," Raza continued. "But 
She is from Westport, Conn. we don't know who's proscecuting 
Theresa Guarino has been selected as executive and who's on the stand. Some of my 
Saint Mary's editor. A third-year communications father's colleagues who are high­
and history major from Oak Park, Ill., Guarino has ranking officials who know him well 
been an assistant news editor since April 1984. are not allowed to present his case." 
Agovernment major from Robbinsdale, Minn., Jeff "By appealing to senators and 
Blumb will head the sports department. Blumb is a congressmen we can help. Those are 
junior and is minoring in the Arts and Letters Pro­who make a dent on these issues," 
gram for Administrators. He has been assistant sports Raza said. He added University Presi­
editor since October 1983. Also, he has served as a dent Father Theodore Hesburgh has 
sports copy editor and began covering sports for been very helpful in notifying who 
The Observer as a freshman. 

Joe Murphy has been named viewpoint editor. He 
is a sophomore from St. Louis, Mo., and is majoring in 
government. Murphy's past experience with the 
newspaper includes assistant viewpoint editor and 
staffreporte~. 

Returning as photo editor, Pete Laches is a junior 
government major from Plainview, N.Y. He has 
headed the department since April 1984. Prior to 
that, Laches served as assistant photo editor. 

A new position on The Observer's editorial board is that ofcopy chief. Frank Lipo, a sophomore from Highland Park, Ill., has been selected for this posi­tion. Lipo is an American studies major and has served as news copy editor since October 1984. 
Bill Highducheck has been named controller of the newspaper. Highducheck, a junior accounting major from Syracuse, N.Y., has served as head typesetter sinceJanuary 1985. He also has worked as typesetter and typist for the newspaper. 
Anne Culligan, a sophomore from St. Paul, Minn., will continue in her position as advertising manager, a position she has held since October 1984. Culligan is an American studies major. She is minoring in the Arts and Letters Program for Administrators. 
A sophomore from Roseville, Minn., John Mennell has been selected as production manager. Mennen is an American studies/government major. His past ex­perience with The Observer includes assistant news editor, assistant viewpoint editor, assistant produc­tion manager, features copy editor, and senior staff reporter. 
l I 
By CA'ftiYANN REYNOLDS 
StaffReporter 
Haider Raza, a Notre Dame graduate student whose father is a "prisoner ofconscience" in Pakistan and was arrested in January 1984, last night informed an audience in LaFortune's Little Theatre of the "initially horrible experience per­sonally, and in the realm of human life itself." 
The talk was sponsored by Am­nesty International as part of the Peace WithJusticc Week. 
Raza spoke about howthe govern­ment of Pakistan took his father, Raza Kamin, Jan. 9, 1984, from his home in Lahore, Pakinstan, and the "next day put him in a cold, five-by­seven cell with no window, with no bedding, handcuffed, where the next morning he was taken through a torture chamber to hear the screams of others being tortured," without any official warning or rea­
son. 
Not until March 26 was Kamin's wife taken by unidentified men to see him in Islambad, where he ap­peared weak and mentally dis­oriented, said Raza. 
And not untilJune 26 did the High Court order the Pakistan govern­ment to identify Kamin's whereabouts and charges against him. 
"My father couldn't possibly tell my sister of what they did to him," Raza said, when some of the family visited in August and asked about the torturing. Then, in January, Raza's brother-in-law visited him and "pressed questions about the torturing." 
Raza said his father had seen one of his friends "tortured to death." The military had killed his friend "by lying him on ice and then his hands were nailed," when his father was in college in 1961. Raza said his father couldn't tell his son-in-law of the tortures now. 
Haider said when he pursued his father's whereabouts in January 1984 the U.S. State Department left him "dangling," and the "CIA being very active in Pakistan -that is a fact ­

Funding
,. 
continuedfrom page 1 
The Student Lobby Commission, headed by McCloskey and Edward Augustine, stresses the urgency of the pending cuts. Although college students are threatened by the proposals, they are not powerless, according to McCloskey. 
The Commission is launching into action this weekend, seeking stu­dent support for "the most crucial issue since the draft." During lunch and dinner Sunday, and lunch Mon­day, students will have the opportu­nity to be heard. 
People will be in the Notre Dame dining halls providing post cards to be signed and sent to Congress. The cards read, "Is there another way to reduce the deficit without ending all government assistance to over one million American college students?" 
To support opposition to the cuts, students only need to sign their names and add any additional com­ments if they wish. The commission will take care of postage. 
The commission's protest doesn't end Monday. A memo expessing stu­dent sentiment, along with sugges­ted alternatives, will be sent to Washington with the post cards. 
After break, form letters will be available and the commission urges students to contact their home state senators to express their concerns. The Student Lobby Commission, which can be reached at 239-7668, encourages suggestions and new ideas. 
McCloskey added, "These proposals will do much damage. Stu­dents are not powerless unless they choose to be." 

... 
,-------------------------------------------~~----------~-­The Observer Friday, March 8, 1985 -page S 


Civil rights march re-enacted 
Associated Press 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. -Twenty years after a turning point in the life ofthe old South, a new generation of civil rights activists marched in tri­umph yesterday to the Alabama Capitol and met with Gov. George Wallace, who had scorned the original demonstration. 

Among those leading the march was Caretta Scott King, widow of the Rev. Martin Luther KingJr., who in 196'5 was joined by 25,000 people at the Alabama Capitol steps concluding the Selma-to­Montgomery voting rights march. 
That march helped spur Congress to pass the Voting Rights Act which banned intimidation and other tac­tics that denied the ballot to millions ofblacks in the Deep South. 
The Rev. Joseph Lowery, presi­dent ofthe Southern Christian Lead­ership Conference that King founded. stood on the Capitol steps and told the anniversary crowd that two decades have not erased racism in America_ 
He looked toward the church, one 
block from the Capitol, where King 
once preached, and said, "They've 
got new devices now, Martin. 
They've got new devices to deny us 
our rights." 

Although walkers had dwindled to as few as 80 at some points during their five-day commemorative Selma-to-Montgomery march, close to 3,000 were at the Capitol for the anniversary. They waved American flags and sang "We Shall Overcome" and other civil rights hymns. 
Lowery, who targeted President Reagan's policies, later met with Wallace at the Capitol, and reminded the governor that in 1965 Wallace refused to meet with King and his aides following the march. 
"We're glad 20 years later we don't have any difficulty meeting you," Lowery said. 
Wallac·e said race relations have improved in the past two decades hut "we always have room for im­provement; we will work toward that end." 
Wallace, a one-time segregationist 

Seniors!! 

Sunday, March 1 0 is the LAST DAY to buy Senior Formal Tix, and reserve rooms, tables, and flower orders. 
.. 
Time: 5pm-7pm 


Where: Lafortune and LeMons Lobby 
Tix and Reservations also today, and Saturday same timew same place. 
SPRING BREAK IS NEAR!! 
This year tan, don't burn; prepare your skin at 
J.M S. Plaza
TAN-HAW. 
4609 Grope Rood sun tonn1ng solon 
M1showoko. IN
277-7026 


Can't go to Florida? Get a tan anyway in our booth, beds, or both 
\ 
who won a fourth term with crucial 
black support in 1982, also said, "I'm 
very thankful to the black people of 
Alabama for making it possible for 
me to do the only thing I know how 
to do-be governor ofAlabama." 
At the Capitol rally, Lowery said this week's 50-mile march showed how far blacks have come in 20 years. He called for a nationwide movement to prevent "a California cowboy from turning the clock back on racial justice." • 
It was exactly 20 years since "Bloody Sunday," when about 600 blacks were clubbed by state troopers and sheriffs deputies in a demonstration for voting rights in Selma. That violence inspired the: second march, led by King. 
Joining Lowery at the steps ofthe: Capitol on Thursday was the Rev jesse jackson, the former Kin~ lieutenant who ran for president ir the Democratic primaries last year. 
Jackson spoke below the white domed Capitol where jeffersor Davis was sworn in as president o the old Confederacy. 
Jackson said the focus of the civil rights movement has shifted to eco­nomics, with poverty striking whites as well as blacks. 
Mrs. King praised young people for attending the rally. "We've learned that freedom is not really free. 

I j j j j j 
. j j 
~ 
A 
~ ~ 
~ 
j 
. ~ 
l ~ 
~ 
~ Obeerv~/Carol Gales

What do you make of it? 
Glenford Peters, a fifth-year architecture student, seems to be wondering what to do next with the contraption be bas created in his Metal Sculpture class. The class is one ofmany art courses of­fered in the department. 

Five Mexicans assaulted in Texas 
Associated Press 
NEW BRAl'NFELS, Texas -Five Mexican nationals were found shot near a rural road yesterday following an apparent robbery, and one victim bled to death after his throat was cut, authorities said. 
The four other victims, ranging in age from 16 to 21, were taken to hospitals in San Antonio, where all underwent surgery, officials said. 
"It looks like it was a robbery," said Texas Rangers spokesman Bruce Casteel in San Antonio. 
The men "were picked up in San Antonio by two individuals," Casteel said. "A deal was cut to haul these (people) up to Denton and they were robbed. Our information is they were taken out of the car and told to kneel down and were shot." 
Denton is about 35 miles north of Dallas. 
weekends attracted people.· He said students responded to the

Election 
weekends, which he thinks is impor­tant.

continuedfrom page 1 
By the end of this semester. Georgi said he thinks his pro-Greorgi hopes to set up a sopho­posed sophomore get-away more council with representitives 
t A1TENTION! ~ 
-Class of'86 ­
--Tickets are·now available for -­-Junior Class Roadtrip to... ­
-·:*****************~ ­
-~ "CATS" ~ ­
-t****************** ­
-in Chicago on Aprilllth, cost is only $35! ­
-~~an evening ofculture and debauchery ­-in the Windy City,, ­iC call Dan at 1787for reservations iC 
Authorities were searching for two suspects believed to be driving a large blue vehicle, Casteel said. 
Comal County Sheriffs Sgt. Ed Mullins said he was led to the shoot­ing scene after being flagged down by a motorist, who had put two of the victims in the back ofhis truck. 
"One was laying in the road face down, and another one was walking from the other way, and one was back in the brush," Mullins said. 
from each dorm to provide a net­
work of people to implement ideas. 
In this way, Georgi said he hopes to 
get everything in place so that he 
will be ready to tackle the job next 
fall. 
McDonald said he thought the fact that the off-campus race was close enough for a a run-off(Thoman's 41 percent to McDonald's 3 7 percent) was very good. He said, "it caused people to think a little more," as well as giving them a chance to voice their opinion. He said the runoff caused "more people to get in­volved," which he said was impor­tant. 
McDonald said next week he will begin to establish a commision made of representatives from all the apartment complexes. He said the off-campus community is "the most distant," and therefore the most uni­nformed group ofstudents. By estab­lishing these "housing districts," MeDonald hopes to meet with the representitivcs to let them know what is happening on campus as well as receiving input from them. 





~i~~~_()__ __
i~ll t_-_________________
Fr-ida-y,_Ma-rch_s_,19-85--p-ag-e6 
Dirty-Harrying Supreme Court Justice Blackmon 


Unnecessary trips cheat those who might benefit 
DearEditor: 
As Spring Break nears, the decision facing most students is what to do with the week of free time. Others, most notably the seniors, are making decisions which will affect the course of their lives, that is, which career or school to choose. 
This is a very important, even nerve­

I ' 
wracking, decision. It should be looked upon with respect. Seniors should show respect for

I 
r the schools and companies that spend a great deal of time, and therefore money, to come
( 
and offer such great opportunities. Just as im­

'( portantly, fellow seniors should be respected. They deserve to have as many chances as pos­
( 
( sible to obtain an offer from the best company or school. Unfortunately, I know of several seniors ( who have taken virtually every plant trip or school visit they have been offered. That is 
I fine, as long as they really n1:ed the trip to ,· make their final decision. This is not often the case, however. There are two obvious reasons 
r 
why this is wrong. (At least they seem obvious to me.) First, they are misleading schools and com­

r panies who may be on a tight budget and can offer only a limited number of trips to stu­dents whom they believe are interested. 
Second, they are depriving truly interested seniors ofa valuable chance to learn about the compnay or school they may end up choos­ing. 
Last week, a senior 1 know of took a plant trip with a company they admitted they were not interested in at all. The reason? The com­pany happened to be located in the student's hometown, and since the student will be going to Florida for Spring Break, it was a good, convenient opportunity to go home and visit the family. The student even stayed in a hotel at the company's expense. 
Then there is the senior who wants to be able to say he or she had more plant trips than everyone else. They will probably be laughing about it during graduation week while friends are still sending out resumes. 
I can think of more than a few seniors who have no job offers or school acceptances who could have taken these trips and probably would have profited more from it. 
Why do some seniors do this? Do they feel they must get their money's worth out of the S l 0 fee they paid at the Career and Placement Office? Think of how many ten dollar bills 
The FBI understandably did not publicize the apparent attack on Justice Harry Black­mun on Feb. 28 -any more than it had 
Garry Wills 
outrider 
publicized the many threats on his life. This is the kind of attempt that stimulates "copycat" cranks. 
But after the violence, threatened or real, reaches a certain level, it becomes impossible to hide what is goingon, and society must take a chastened look at it. Merely from the heightened protection around Justice Black­mun, it was bound to become known that he is endangered. The same week someone shot through his window (spraying glass on his wife), an anonymous letter arrived from a man who promised to kill him and then laugh at his funeral. 

There are several ways of looking at this silent campaign of intimidation against the court. Most obviously, and on the surface, Blackmun is a symbol of frustration for all those who resent the opinion he wrote per­mitting legal abortion. If violence is resorted to against minor and namelds people at local abortion clinics, we must expect the per­petrators to harbor special animus for the man who has come to personify all that they hate. 
But even beyond the specific emotions called up by the abortion issue, there is a readiness not only to correct perceived evils by individual acts ofviolence, but to cheer on those who undertake such correction. 
The Bernhard Goetz case is the best recent example of this. For some commentators, it was not enough to say that Goetz was par­donable, perhaps, if he was provoked, either by those he shot or by others who preceded them in Goetz's personal history of encounters on the subway. 
But, instead, people positively cheered him as a moral example for others. It was about time, some said, to carry into real life the fan­tasies long cultivated by movies about provoked avengers -the whole Buford Pusser body ofwork. For these people, Charles Bron­son or Dirty Harry was playing the cinematic role of John the Baptist before the arrival of the real thing. 
Provocation is presumed, you see, to be constant and shared. The response to it can­not be reprehensible, since it has been too longed delayed. Yet one wonders why people feel more provoked now than at a earlier point. After all, another movie dream of many of these provoked people has come true ­Ronald Reagan is top sheriff now, and Edwin Meese is his deputy. Why do we need vigilantes when the cops are so willing to do their job.? 
Here we touch the wildest circle ofsympa­thy formed around those who bomb abortion clinics, shoot subway rowdies or shoot at Su­preme Court justices. Even with Ronald Reagan ~n office, people feel aggrieved. Some nameless "they" are not letting Reagn do his job. Even is a chorus ofadulation, a bit of dis­sent from CES stabs the provoked people to their vitals. Jesse Helms speaks for the perma­nently aggrieved when he says the aim of the liberal press is not to criticize conservatives but: "Run them down. Kill him. Assassinate his character." 
Those who feel so deeply threatened will not settle for mere debate in response. Ifyour critics are about to kill you, you must get those critics first. No doubt Jesse Helms does not mean to draw that conclusion from his won inflammatory words. But some in his au­dience are ready to. They are the shooters, the bombers, the terrified and terrifying avengers. They think their day has come, and that they will vindicate their country at last. They may be right on the first point; on the second, never. Their country is better than that. 
(C) 1985, UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
I P.O. Box Q j 
they have already wasted. But most important, think of how many other seniors are worried about their future because they have been deprived ofthe trips they need to get an offer. 
Kathleen Hogan Pasquerilla West 

Marchal must acquaint himself with the church 
DearEditor: 

Vernon Marchal owes it to his readers to acquaint himselfwith the claims of the Catho­lic Church. If, after learning these, he still dis­agrees with the Church on contraception, interpretation of the Bible, poverty, and wo­men's rights, his disagreement at least will make more sense. At this point it is obvious he has not even heard of. let alone examined those claims. 
The Catholic Church maintains that it is the teacher, interpreter and guardian of God's Truths, preserved from error in matters of faith and morals, and destined to be Man's in­fallible guide to salvation until the end oftime. The Church bases these fantastic claims on the Divinity of the Man it says is its founder, jesus Christ, and on the guarantees Christ is claimed to have given it. 
Like any or all of us, Marchal is free to dis­agree with the Church's claims. But the claims must be understood before they can be rejected and certainly before this institution's teachings can be derogated. Ifreason upholds the Church's claims, then everything Marchal ridicules as being false, is true. 
The fact that many Catholics ignore Church teachings will be seen as having absolutely nothing to do with the validity ofthose teach· ings. The fact that a so-called Catholic theolo­gian upholds abortion will carry no weight whatsoever, if the Church's Magisterium has declared abortion to be an "unspeakable crime." 
We live in an age where moral relativism runs rampant and Everyman possesses a singu­lar kind of paper infallibility. That is all the more reason why appeals to a democratic "consensus" in moral matters may be seen as absurd. Just think: If God must wait for the formation of a consensus before his teachings can be disseminated, then surely such a God lacks a most important attribute of any god­head, namely, Divinity. 

Poles have no money to buy meat products 
DearEditor: 

I returned recently from a trip to Poland where I saw people standing in line for long hours, waiting to buy chicken. Yesterday I read an article about the Poles; the author wrote, "Along with enduring the long lines, the Poles mw;t also search daily for such bare essentials as soap, thread, writing paper, and envelopes ... Poles are also priced out ofmost oftheir own restaurants. The best restaurants­and they are almost all owned by the state-are filled almost entirely with foreigners. A per­son is allowed with coupons to purchase two and one-half kilos (five and a half pounds) a month. It is two and one-half kilos of meat and poultry combined. The average worker makes about S 1 7 a month so he does not buy either meat or chicken." 
Poor Tom Mowle. 

MA. Werner Saint Mary's College 
Understanding of Lent not shown by Mowle 
DearEditor: 

I am addressing Tom Mowle's article about the availability ofmeat on Fridays during Lent. It is sad that Mowle admittedly doesn't under­stand Friday's Lenten observance, but even more so that he would write a sarcastic article about it regardless of his lack of insight. Love means to sacrifice -perhaps even incon­veniencing oneselfto bring a smile to another. Surely the greatest sacrifice of love was dis­played in the suffering and crufixion ofJesus Christ. Christ's passion and death is the focus ofthe Lenten Season. 
I agree that meat should be available to those who want to have it, but not because "we all have a right to sin." I resent Mowle's suggestion that Catholics live in fear of provoking the wrath of an angry God. On the contrary, Lent is a time to recognize God's forgiveness of our weakness and to work toward change. 
It would be an injustice if a reader of Mowle's article concluded that Lent is just an­other "strange Church rule" which Catholics follow with little or no understanditrg. Thank God Lent has deeper meaning for some ofus. 
joseph Greco Fisher Hall 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edttor-m·Chtef. . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . . Dave Taiclet Managmg Edttor . . . Mark Worscheh Controller. . . Dave Stephenitch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Edttor . . .... Sarah Ham11ton Advert1smg Manager . ... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Edttor ...........· . Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. .... Jeff O"Ne1ll reflect the policies of the administration of either mstllution. The news 1s reported as Samr Mary"s Edttor . Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager. . Mark B. Johnson accurately and as Objectively as possibl~ Uns1gned editonals represent the opm1on Sports Edttor...... M1chael Sullivan Product1on Manager. .... . Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Vtewpomt Edttor . . Dave Grote ProJeCt Manager . . . Amy Stephan present the views ol their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the Features Edttor. . .... Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varymg opinions on campus. through letters. Photo Editor. . Pete Laches Fouhded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 

Accent 

Friday, March 8, 1985 -page 7 
The ND bookstore as a social alternative 

Rev. Robert 
Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
IfI were as faithful about going to 
the Grotto as I am in visiting the 
campus bookstore, I would prob­
ably be granted my own vision of 
the Virgin Mary. 
IfI were as regular about saying 
my prayers as I am in looking at 
books I don't own, I could tell Brot­
her Andre, CSC's only beatified 
member, "Move over, Brother. I'm 
marching home with the saints." 
I go to the bookstore every day, 
and some days I go there two or 
three times, looking for surprises. 
Last week, I found a newly pub­
lished novel by Graham Greene's 
that I didn't know existed. Greene 
has been my favorite writer for . many years. 
I get as excited by a new book of 
his as I did in my days as a semi­
narian, hearing that the French had 
invented a new sin. It later turned 
out to be a fresh wrinkle in a well­
worn vice, but for a while it looked 
hopeful, as though the church 
would have to revise the list of 
commandments.Nibil nolli sub 
sole my confessor used to say. 
There is nothing new under the sun 
ofSatan. 

Sometimes I find something I 
didn't know about in Waterford 
crystal, at a price at which I can 
afford to buy it as a gift. Waterford is 
to glassware what Greta Garbo is to 
womanhood. Even ifyou can't 
afford it, you congratulate yourself 
for the desire ofownership it 
arouses in you as a person of impec­
cable tast~. 

The bookstore's prices on Water­ford are very reasonable, as comparative shopping could show you. Conan must have an Irish connection that gets us a deal on that gleaming crystal. Nothing generic can take its place as a way to please your mother on her birthday. 
On the first floor I like to walk around looking at the candy. Russell Stover could ruin my life by the occasions ofsin it markets in one­pound boxes. The counters are like a small Vatican ofsweets ofall denominations, unbeatable for the holidays celebrated with sugar at any local shop outside ofFanny Farmer's. 
I'm not being paid or rewarded for promoting the bookstore trade. 
As an old glutton who knows where 
the bodies are buried, I'm giving 
you advice to save you legwork. 
Some drug stores offer their dis­
plays ofnougats and nut clusters. 
On other counters, all the centers 
are soft. 
So far as I can see, the bookstore 

has everything you need to ruin 
your teeth, this side ofdiabetes. 
Stover's mild chocolate offers as 
much rich delight as this Yankee 
mouth can handle. I'd kiss the 
Fanny Farmer's selection hello It's 
more reasonable on the pocket­
book than Stover's. 
I browse through the shelves witn the toilet aricles for men. All of them pander to your hope that your machismo is working. I used to slather on lotions that left me smell­ing like the boss pimp at the fancy house. Now it's enough to have the pleasant odor ofthe newly washed. 
Sometimes I experiment with scented soap so that people near me will think they're standing in the Maine woods. Eventually I decide that ifGod wanted me perfumed like an evergreen, He would have made me a fir tree. 
Two hints to the thrifty: Atka­Seltzer sold in 8-tablet bottles is not a bargain, no matter how you slice it, and in buying tissue, you get what you pay for. After Kleenex, everything else is Charmin -useful for squeezing by Mr. Whipple. 
Not much Notre Dame toggery I would wish to be caught dead in 
ever fits well. I search those racks 
for a windbradker that would make 
me look lean, like Gerry Faust 
chewing gum. Sportswear doesn't 
cover the waterfront ofthe stylish 
stout, or it gives me that awkward 
appearance ofthe shell-shocked 
uncle home for the day from the 
hospital. On my only bookstore 
t-shirt, the leprachaun covers his 
eyes with those fighting fists. I think 
he's praying for a boat back to 
Donegal. 
The bookstore ladies belong to the sweethearts ofthe campus. They make my daily visits f.eellike coming home. The woman on the second floor see morre of me than my religious community does. They have worn their fingers down to stubs pushing the buttons on their registers for me. My greatest vice is buying books, as though I were hearing a voice preparing me for the nuclear winter, when I will have the only library surviving the bomb blast. 
I will either die or go blind before reading everything I have paid for in the past three years. So much trash is being printed: the first draft ofnovels that failed in their definitive editions, books of letters that impoverished poets wrote the gas company, memoirs of actresses who dated Errol Flynn when he was straight, prayerbooks ofclergyman who found God through health foods. 
There are also the gems, those 
rare testaments ofcomic truth 
composed by Welsh wordsmiths 
with a love ofthe language like 

Shakespeare's, or essays from sharp­
witted women who stop you in 
your tracks as though you were a 
vampire startled by a crucifix. It 
will take more than books to shore 

up a civilization sick from an excess 
of information. 

We thought education could save 
the American dream. We went to 
college, and treated the scholarly 
bibliographies like a new 

decalogue, but they didn't do much 
for the hungers ofthe heart except 

make them more wistful. What does 
a bibliophile know? I love my 
books, but I wouldn't die for them. 
The Notre Dame Bookstore is 
someplace to go when you're too 
tired for church or a game. Conan 
never seems to mind your coming 
in to browse. 
The bookstore should stay open evenings as a social alternative for students hating to go the bars. The Center for Social Concerns could sponsor a bookstore plunge for students who have never faced buving a book. 

Some college bookstores have the intimacy ofSears Roebuck. Ours has the charm ofa tribal gathering place, like the village well. You should boast about that way of being number one on the beaches of Ft. Lauderdale. 

MovieS 
•The 
adventure movie "Raiders ofthe Lost Ark" will fill the screen in the Engi­neering Auditorium tonight and tomor­row night. Starring Harrison Ford as an archeologist in search of lost treasures, "Raiders" is filled with thrilling chases and predicaments from start to finish. Ford's role, Indianajones, earned enough popularity at the box office to bring him back in a sequel. The Student Activities Hoard will sponsor the film with showing at 7, 9 and 1 1 tonight and tommorrow night. Admission is S I. SO. 

•Tonight 
at 7:30 and 9:45 the Friday Night Film Series will present the 1983 film "Nostalgia" at Annenberg Auditorium for S2.SO. This fascinating tale ofa Russian poet who finds himself living in Italy but longing for his homeland, combines the poet's memories of Russia with his day-to-day life ... until they merge into an indiscernible combination. 



Dance 

•Tonight at Cbautauqua Progressive dance music will be presented from 9:30 to 1. Tickets are S I. 

Art 

•The 
displays ofetchings by Linda Plotkin continue this weekend at Hammes Gallery ofMoreau Hall at Saint Mary's College from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. 

•Glenn 
Zweygardt: Steel and Stone Sculpture continues this weekend at the Snite Museum at Notre Dame. Zweygardt teaches sculpture and is deparment chairman at New York State College of Ceramics at Alfred University. His monumental steel and stone sculpture has been featured in numerous one-man shows, as well as in private and public collections in the States. 


Hours at the Snite this weekend are today from 10 a.m. to 4 and tomorrow and Sunday f!om 1 p.m. to 4. 
Mass 

The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father Robert Kennedy at 5: I 5 p.m. 
(Saturday night vigil). Father Andre Leveille at 9 a.m. Father Gene Gorski at I0:30a.m. Father Stephen Gibson at 12:15 p.m. 
Nazz 



•Tonight 
the Nazz will feature the campus song and dance troupe Shenanigans. The performance, sure to be entertaining, will begin at 7. 

•Tomorrow 
night, Catherine and Roseanne McCabe will be also be display­ing fine talent from 9 to I 2 as they present a Night ofFolk Music. 


Misc. 


•The 
Century Center will present Michiana Sport Travel and Boat Show this weekend. Every imaginable kind of boat can be seen at this show sponsored by Sport Promotions, Inc. The hours are Friday 5 p.m to l 0, Saturday from 10 a.m. to 10, and Sunday from to noon to 6 p.m. Admission is S 3. For further informa­tion call291-0·i25. 

•You 
auto-maniacs may be interested in a trip to the A.C.C. this weekend where the annual Calvacade ofWheels auto show will take place throughout the building. The best ofyesterday and the best of today are sure to be among the cars on display tomorrow and Sunday. 


Theater 


•Continuing this weekend will be be the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's production of"Electra." The Sophocles myth recounts the chilling tragedy ofElectra (OraJones), a woman compelled to fill an evil destiny. The passage oftime aQd pleas ofher sister, Chrysothemis (Susan Dun­lap) fail to dim her constant and faithful vigil for the return ofa brother, Orestes (Michael O'Keefe), to their native dity of Mycenae. 
Performances will be tonight and tomorrow night at 8 in Washington Hall. Tickets, priced at S3, may be reserved by calling 284-4626 weekdays or 239-5048 on performance nights. 

, 
Music 

•The Notre Dame Department of Music will present Timothy L. Shilling in a senior voice recital tomorrow at 3 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum. The varied program will include works by composer Franz Schubert, Schumann, Faure, Duparc, Carissimi and Bernstein, and will feature a set ofsongs by the ~arly 20th century American composer, Charles Ives. 




Accent 


.. / 
University Food Services challenges you
.. 
i ' 
Knowing the road to better Hawley, "I don't have time. It just
Kathy Scarbeck 
health and actually following it are doesn't seem to fit into myfeatures staff writer two different situations entirely. schedule." Hawley also admits his 

"When people are tired, they are sleeping patterns have changed "Take the challenge." be considered for incorporation less likely to make positive since coming to Notre Dame. "I get Notre Dame students are more into the breakfast menu. choices," Farnia asserts. "They tend six hours ofsleep a night if I'm 

than familiar with just such a In addition to being a fundraiser to throw in the towel. This is lucky, but I can still be tired in the phrase. Whether it be in the class­for the campus-wide drive for MS, reflected in their food choices and afternoon, so I'll take a nap. I wind room or on the foOlball field, they the MS Bike Tournament offers the in their decision as to whether or up cutting my first class a lot," he 
·' 
are constantly being urged to strive opportunity for inter-dorm compe­not they should go to the Rock or adds. for the best. tition. The winning dorm will ride a bike." Farnia advises students Senior Adrian Wallace also 

During the past few weeks, an­receive a $1 50 prize for the pur­to, "take time out to do something recognizes the difficulties involved other group on campus has been chase ofsporting equipment. The for yourself-to give you relief. It's in keeping healthy while at college. spotlighting its efforts to motivate tournament is designed as a.n the same thing as studying for a test "I try to go to breakfast and dinner, 
·/ the student body. University Food aerobic exercise that will hopefully and someone asks you out for a but I sometimes end up eating Services is currently sponsoring motivate students to exercise. beer." snacks anyway," Wallace admits. "I "Festival of Health, A Challenge to Also present during the festival To freshman Mary Sain, keeping drink a lot ofsoda but it's diet soda ' Your Wellness," a program which are health care professionals pro­in shape plays "a very big part" in and I take it to class to stay awake." challenges the Notre Dame commu­viding information and such her life. She tries to go to aerobics She tries to go running three to four nity to eat well, exercise regularly services as blood pressure readings four times a week, jogs about two to times a week, but the bad weather and become aware ofcurrent and pulse rate measurements. three miles a day and swims every can often cause problems. health issues. Nutrition is an important part of so often for a change ofpace. "You Farnia hopes that the Festival of "The festival focuses on total wellness. "Good nutritional habits feel better about yourselfwhen you Health will help students increase wellness," says Suzanne Farnia, are as basic as the four food exercise, and it breaks the tedious their awareness oftheir own manager ofMarketing and Nutrition groups," says Farnia. She suggests studying pattern of life at Notre "wellness" at this point in their Services. "It deals with forming that college age students have four Dame," she says. lives, "Forming strong health habits good health habits now and it deals or more servings ofbread and four Incorporating exercise into one's now should be the goal ofstudents with preventative topics. or more serVings offruit or day can sometimes prove to be a as they begin to form their personal vegetables each day along with four problem. Says freshman Mike lifestyles." "People in the college age group of milk and two of meat. are making decisions on whether or There is also an "other" group not to exercise, who they will eat which is..formed ofthose foods that with and what they will.eat. It's • have no nutrients for the amount of typically a healthy time, but it's calories they possess. "Don't go into hard for 19, 20 or 21-year-olds to this group until you meet the needs know that what they do now will ofthe other groups," Farnia recom­affect their health twenty years mends. "In the bread group, con­down the line," explains Farnia. centrate on whole grain breads. In order to raise the conscious­Although white bread is enriched ness ofthe student body on "total and therefore has the same nutrient wellness," several activities are value, it has no fiber which is taking place during the Festival of needed in the diet. The fruit and Health. The "Eat a Better Breakfast vegetable group is the most impor­Contest" is designed to allow stu­tant. If you eat well in this area, you gents to suggest to University Food are bound to receive all the Services some breakfast combina­vitamins you need, so vitamin sup­tions they would enjoy. Entries will plementation is not necessary." She be judged on the basis of nutrition adds that broiled, baked or boiled and creativity. Five winners will meats are better to eat than those receive breakfast in bed for them­that are fried. Also, poultry and fish selves and their roommates. are healthier than red meats such as 

However, any qualified entry may beef. A Student ponders the nutritional value ofa candy bar in the Library Pit Photos by Kurt Hedinger 
1 
' ( ~ 
,, 
{ { 
r 
( 
( 
'J 
.( 
., 
I 
l
r( 
( I 
{ 
1 
t. 
1 
.· 

.} 
I 
·~ 
i 
l 
; 
I 
I 
( 
j 



Friday, March 8, 1985 -page 8-9 

-justfor the health of it 
Calories used per hour Activity Weight  
120 lbs. 150 lbs. 180 lbs.  
'  Baseball 238 280 322 Basketball 255 300 345 Bicycling 178 210 242 Bowling 229 270 311 Dance, aerobic 289 340 391 Dance, ballet 212 250 288 Dance, disco 357 420 483 Dance, social 212 250 288 Fitness calisthenics 238 280 322 Football 263 310 357 Golf (walking) 255 300 345 Gymnastics 263 310 357 Handball 510 600 690 Horseback riding 204 240 276 Jogging 552 650 748 Judo, karate 203 310 357 Pool, billiards 110 130 150 Racquetball 510 600 690 Rope jumping 595 700 805 Rowing, crew 697 820 943 Running (1 0 m.p.h.) 765 900 1035 Skating 297 350 403 Skiing, cross-country 595 700 805 Skiing, downhill 510 600 690 Soccer 459 540 621 Softball (fast) 238 280 322 Softball (slow) 246 290 334 Swimming 272 320 368 Tennis 357 420 483 .Volleyball 297 350 403 Walking 178 210 242 Weight training 399 470 541  


Marc Snyder serves a nutritiousfoodsales pizza to John Seidensticker and Pat Burns 


Are you fulfilling your requirements? 

The Milk Group 
What makes a serving I cup whole, lowfat or buttermilk I 112 slices cheddar-type cheese I 314 cups ice cream 2 cups cottage·cheese 
Key Nutrients 
This group provides the greatest percent of your daily calcium needs. Calcium is a vital nutrient at all ages for maintenance ofbone structure. Milk also has a significant amount of protein, Vitamin D and Riboflavin. 
Special Significance 
The fat content ofwhle milk products could significantly add to the total number of calories and fat in the diet. The use oflowfat, 2-percent and skim milk products is encour­aged, a..-; these foods are more nutrient-dense. 
The Bread Group 
What makes a serving 1 slice bread 1I 2 cup ofcooked noodles or rice I small roll, biscuit or muffin II 2 cup cooked cereal I cup ready-to-eat cereal 6 saltine-type crackers 
Key nutrients 
The bread group, which includes whole grain and fortified products, is a rich source of the 8 vitamins. High in complex car­bohydrates, this group is a good energy source. 
Special Significance 
Should be given to the selection of whole grain products within this group. Though enriched bread and cereals contain an equivalent amount ofnutrients, the refine­

ment removes most, if not all, of the dietary 
fiber. Fiber is a nondigestible component of foods which helps the digestive tract func­
tion better by providing bulk. 
The Fruit and Vegetable
Group 
What makes a serving l small potato l medium piece of fruit 1 cup raw fruit or vegetable l/2 cup juice 
Key nutrients 
The fruit and vegetable group is the most nutrient-dense group, providing the most nutrients for the least amount ofcalories. It is important that a good source ofVitamin C be eaten every day, and a Vitamin A source every other day. Good Vitamin C sources include broccoli, cantaloupe, grapefruit, green pepper, oranges, strawberries, tomato and watermelon. Good Vitamin A sources include dark green leafy vegetables such as spinach, turnip grt':ens, kale, apricots, can­taloupe, carrots, broccoli and winter squash. 
Special considerations This group makes vitamin supplements unnecessary. 
The Meat Group 
What makes a serving 
2 to 3 oz. cooked meat (beef, veal, lamb, 
liver) 2 to 3 oz. cooked fish, poultry without bone I egg or l12 cup cooked dry peas, beans, lentils 2 tablespoons peanut butter 
Key nutrients Rich in the complete proteins that your 
.. 

body needs, this group also provides a good 
source ofiron and B vitamins. 
Special considerations 
The meat group extends beyond the confines of meat itself, but only animal sources of protein will be complete. Vegetarians need to combine whole grains with beans, peas, or lentils to achieve this. Among animal protein, fish and poultry will provide the same amount ofprotein with less fat. 
Recommended daily servings 
Milk  2 cups or equivalent  
Meat  2 servings or more  
Fruit  4 servings or more  

and vegetable Bread 4 servings or more 

Sports Briefs 
NCAA tournament tickets for bleacher seats 
still remain for the first-and second-round games at the ACC on March 14 and 16. The S30 tickets, good for all games, are available at the ACC ticket office.-The Observer 
The ND/SMC Gymnastics Club will play host 
to Eastern Michigan tomorrow at 1 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Admission is free.-The Observer 
The NO-Dayton basketball game will be broadcast live by WVFI AM-64 tomorrow at Il:55 a.m. Pete Pranica will describe the action, and Eric Parzianello will provide analysis. ­The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be held this Sunday from I p.m. to 3:30 p.m. in the New Orleans Room of LaFortune. The registration fee is $5 and the tournament staff em­phasizes that no team name containing vulgarity or a personal attack upon another student will be accepted at the time of registration. ­The Observer 
Friday! March 8, 1985-page 10 
The Notre Dame basketball banquet 
will be held on Monday at the ACC. A cocktail hour begins at 6:30 
p.m. and the dinner begins at 7:30p.m. Tickets are $19 each and are available at the Gate I 0 ticket window ofthe ACC. -The Observer 
NVA aerobics and stretchercise classes wm 
begin on Monday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239­61 00. -The Obsen'er 
A women's water polo club is now forming. 
Anyone interested should attend a meeting on Wednesday, March 13, at 10 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. For more information, call Marianne Bailey at 283-3891.-The Obserr'er 
NVA spring sports entry deadlines have been set. Spring events include men's interhall baseball, men's inter­hall softball, women's interhall softball, graduate men's softball, wo­men's interhall soccer, men's interhall soccer and men's interhall floor hockey. The deadline to register team rosters at the NVA office for all of these events is Wednesday, March 13. For more informa­tion, contact the NVA office at 2 39-61 00. -The Obseroer 
see BRIEFS, page 14 
Doug Flutie to receive $1.25 million 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-At Sl.25 million for this season, New jersey Generals rookie quarterback Doug Flutie is the highest paid player in profes­sional football, it was reported last night. 
A New York Times story in Friday editions also said that the length of Flutie's contract is six years -not five, as previously reported -and the total of the contract calls for Flutie to be paid S8.3 million over the course of his United States Football League career. Original estimates had Flutie receiving S5 million to S7 million. 
The Obsen•er Notrl· Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, acn:pts cla~ified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m .. Monday through Friday. The Obsen,er Saint Mary's offke, I<Kated on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifkds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classiftcds must be prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents perfive charac·
Classifieds 
ters erda·. 

Food : It even sounds nutritious ... TO ANYBODY INTERESTED IN FOHM­ING A POLO CLUB THERE WILL BE A 
LOST BLACK ARMY ROTC COAT AT Summer Sales Positions. Average ST. MARY'S CLUB HOUSE SATURDAY earnings $2,900. Sell yellow page adver­NOTICES MARCH 3. IF FOUND CALL 3127. tising for University of Notre Dame FOR SALE 
MOT I ON MEETING AT LAFORTUNE UTILE in concert at THEATRE WEDNESDAY 13 MARCH AT
Campus Telephone Directory. Car neces­THE CHAMELEON CLUB 6.00PM. NO HORSEBACK RIDING EX·
LOST: A GOLD ROPE BRACELET AT sary. No summer school students. TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81117 THE SENIOR COCKTAIL DANCE IN Qualified students should call University ......................................... ·················· ... Friday, March 8; 5:30-7:30 p.m. PERIENCE NECESSARY THE MONOGRAM ROOM OF THE ACC, Directories. 1·8Q0-334-4436. for more in­FOR SALE: 1980 PLYMOUTH CHAMP. GAS GREAT ATIN. STOP 203 SHIP OUT THE HOMELESS!!!
TYPING AVAILABLE THURS. FEB. 28. IF FOUND PLEASE formation and to set up an interview by GOOD MILEAGE. FOR ATHLETES: BY B­RUNNING AROUND TOWN KNOWS PHILLIPS AND GIVE MAUREEN "MO" I need a ride to O'Hare on Friday, March
287-4082 CALL MARY 277-3834. THANKS! March 11. Ask for Barbara Nieukirk. ITS WAY TO THE BARS BY HEART!! O'NEILL 19 BIG JUICY B-DAY KISSES . 15! Round Trip transportation to FLORIDA NEED TO SELL AS SOON AS POSSI­TOMORROW SAT 9. WHAT A BABE! If you are Chtc-vo-bound on that day
Found: a leather basketball at the Rock. II WORDPAOCESSING AND TYPING you fit the situation please call Bill at only $60... for further info call Dan(2560) BLE. NEED TO FLY THE FAMILY OUT and have some space, Call Hank at 2084. 
272-8827 K3133 to descnbe your rock and hopefully or Tom(2551) FOR GRADUATION!! ASKING FOR THE OFF-CAMPUS MASS 3/10 9:30p.m. claim it HIGHEST BIDDER. YOU WON'T CAMPUS VIEW bldg.54655, apt. 202 (Will Hare usual) 
NEED MORE RIDERS, REGRET IT. CALL JEFF AT 3859 OR FOR INFO., CALL RACE THOMAN 272· 
WORDPROCESSING 277-6045 LOST: Pendant on a silver chain some­FLORIDA,DAYTONA, FT. STOP IN 128 ST. ED'S. 0734 
su..n,

where between South Dining Hall, the LAUDERDALE, $80 ROUND TRIP, CALL Rock, and the ACC Wednesday evening, JEFF3467 '75 CHEVY MALIBU Classic: EKcellent NO THEOLOGY: So, Sunday's the big day! I hope every­
running condition; 86,000mi.; New MEET YOUR MAJOR thing goes well now and always. Have a
TYPING Ter-m papers, resumes. leners. February 13. Pendant has a rose painted manuiiCfipts, Reasonable rates; Pickup & on a black l)ackground, with a silver back­RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO: Down­tires/battery; ilttle rust, $700. Call 277· Tundlly, ...rch 12 GREAT weekend. 
delivery on camp•Jses available. Call Mrs ing. It has great sentimental value. town or any suburb. Friday,3/8. Please 4745. 7:00PM 
341 O'Shag Kathy and Faye, survey says: naa! Just
Schultz between 5-10 PM 277-5134 REWARD:Does a pan of brownies and call Gina--2695. my undying gratitude sound good? If VW '80 DIESEL RABBIT SUN· Come and diiiCuU the new kidding. ROOF ,STEREO,GOOD raviMd major program•
A free application form that gives you found please call Karen K2145. Need ride to PITISBURGH over Spring access to more than 500,000 choice Break. I can leave Fri. or Sat. 15/16. Call CONDITION.70,000 MILES $2250 277-fMturtng flexibility and KEVIN Now that you've eurvlvecl the Karen. x2676. 3897. choice of apeciallzatlon. ride In INDIANAPOLIS, will you drive
SUMMER JOBS is yours by sending a 
u1 to the blre??

stamped, self-addressed, return en­Aide needed to Pittsburgh area for spring 74 Mere Montego-new tires, muffler syst. ......./ .....
velope to: Student Employment Services lost: light blue wool suit jacket with blue 
break. Please call Jim at 1930. Good interior. reblt engin. $600 negot. ATTENnON WOMEN OF LYON&­LARRY BURKE-WHERE'S THE
205 Wendell Avenue, Pittsfield, Mass. leather patches on elbows. left at the ACC 
232-0697 evenings. Vote Phelpa-Supllck, Monday, March BEANS? A FEW FINS OR A CRISP
01201 after the brunch for JPW. call Tom at 1655 RIDE NEEDED TO LONG ISLAND NY 10... THE EXCEL­WOULD
COMMITIMENT TO DOUBLE-SAWBACK DO 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL AREA FOR BREAK CALL KATHLEEN LENCE & DEDICATION TO MAKING NICELY, THANK YOU. NANCY LYONS THE BEST IT CAN BE!' 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. LOST: GOLD CHAIN BREACELET BE­1267 PLEASE! 
NEED RIDERS TO LAUDEROALETWEEN (OR IN) CAMPUS MINISTRY, MONTE CARLO NIGHT LEAVING WED 5:00.277-6740
Word Processing/Typing-also copying. THE GREAT ZAHM HALL & FARLEY. PERSONALS Call Andrea 283-3880 • 9 a.m. to 11:00 SENTIMENTAL VALUE, PLEASE 
Friday, March B. 9-1:30 South Dining Haii...Eating, Drinking, Carnival Games & GAY? LESBIAN?

p.m. RETURN IF FOUND FOR REWARD. 
RIDERS needed to CINCINNAn for PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234-Dancing to "Cold Drinks" band... SanCALL LAURIE AT 4039. 
TYPING Spring Break. leaving 3/15. Call Dave at 0363. 24 hour hotline/free pregnancy test Diego Trip drawing at 11 pm. ALL RELAX! CONTACT THE GAY SOCI­277·3953 evenings for details. available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER ETY OF ND/SMC, PO BOX 194, NOTRE 
Jackie 8ogg8 LOST Black and Blue Wool Scarf lost PROCEEDS GO TO MS DAME, IN 46556.
684-87113 near the ACC. If found. call Karen at 
AIDE NEEDEE> to S.n Diego Trip Raffle all eJo:pense paidx2676. 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN
SARASOTAIFT.MEYERS after GMAT trip for 2 to Sunny California over Easter Hi, I'm from U.C.L.A.... and, and, and, on saturday! Please call284-5049. LEAVE ANY nME AFTER THURSDAY Break. Drawing this Friday at Monte She's a doll, a real doll. 
LOST: Blue ski jacket at SMC Saturday. 
MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE C.rto Night. Contact your hall Sopho­Reward. Call Terry 1436. 
USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745.
THE NEW YORK TIMES! It's not too late I N~ED A RIDE TO ANN ARBOR­more or Junior Class rep now for your $2 EILEEN C It started at community night, to order THE NEW YORK TIMES, the DE'fROIT AREA FOR SPRING BREAK. ticket to Paradise ...All proceeds go toMS then Days Inn. oh brother! Saw I.U., then world's 1 newspaper, for campus delivery 
PLEASE CALL MELODY 284-5482. SKI VAIL COLO SPRING BREAK Condo Fund Drive the SYR, took a long walk then break and at 35 cents a day. Contact George 
sleeps 41, Ful Kitch, FRPL, Jaccuzi, Pool, missed you lots. Hit the Love Boat, twice 
lost:woman·s suit,greenish grey wool skirt 
Devenny at145 Star1ford 283-2094. WWANTED; RIDE TO NEW LV M56 303-665-2700 Nicki" Attitude Adjuatment " even POP of course and some prayers.and jacket with a beige blouse. lost on 
HAMPSHIRE OR BOSTON -WILL 5-9 Friday Just want you to know that You are the ­Friday,Mar 2. if found please call Kelly-
SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL Happy Birthday to You BEST. DANnegarPRQ-TYPE Over 14 yrs. eJo:perience 
232-0659 BROTHER BENEDICT AT 239-6187 Happy Birthday to You
typing student papers. dissertations etc. I DearJMG. 277-5833 CAN LEAVE AT ANYTIME Happy 21st Birthday Frances Jean Happy 21st B-day sweetie! I'm going to HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU! 
FOUND ONE MEN'S GOLD SEIKO 
Happy Birthday from Mom. Dad and Anna miss you next week. Oh well, you're going HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU! 
WATCH AT THE CAMPUS VIEW HOT 
ROOMMATE NEEDED: '84 grad seeks anyway a
ATIENTION: GREAT SUMMER WORK Maria to press1ng your luck Have HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
TUB. THANK YOU VERY MUCH 
Domer roommate for 2-bdrm apt in Bir­great day. GAIL PAGE
EXPERIENCE WORK OUT WEST THIS .········........ ········· mingham, MI. Call272-8617 if relocating Love, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU!
SUMMER WITH OTHER N.D. STU­LOST: THREE LETTERS ADDRESSED 

in Detroit area. LUNCH AT SENIOR BAR! JJB
DENTS. AVG. EARNINGS $3700.00 

TO INDIANA BELL, AND M.P.SMITH
CLEAR. INTERVIEWS AM. 2·D MARCH 811 am to2 pm
ON OR ABOUT 2/28. IF FOUND
LAFORTUNE 1:00 & 5:00 SAT. MARCH Ride needed to Artington,Mass· Entry $1 at the door LeMANS SOCK HOP 3-8-115 PARTY FOR FLANNER AND FOR ALL 
PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 277-"'28.
9.COME ON OVER! badly .even Boston would be fine!Can ALL PROCEEDS GO TO FIGHT MS WOMEN'S CARE CENTER PHONE-A­
REWARD leave on 3/15 after 12.Piease call Bill THON VOLUNTEERS AT K OF CON a'!'3133 LeMANS SOCK HOP 3-8-85 3/9, FROM 9 UNTIL 1. THANKS AGAIN LOST: ONE TATIEAED PUMA GYM 

THE SUN, THE SNOW, THE FOR YOUR HELP' 
BAG ON 3/4. I NEED THE LEITER IN
BUFFALO BUS leaving for break March FOR Sale: One way ticket to N.Y.C on NIGHTLIFE, THE MOUNTAINS. SKITHERE YOU CAN KEEP THE TAPES. 
United. Chefp Price. Leaves 3/15 Call THE BEST THIS SPRING BREAK­LeMANS SOCK HOP 3-8-85 MIKE 277-3828 15 at 3:00 p.m. $45 Round trip. Anyone 
destined for Cleveland welcome for $35. 2348 ASPEN, COLORADO. $3117 INCLUDES $1 ADMISSION Call4209 for info TRANSPORTATION, 8 DAY LIFT SUNDAY MARCH 10,1985 
FOUND: Tan purse in Stepan parking lot 
Ride needed to O'Hare 3/15,from O'Hare PASS, 7 NIGHTS LODGING RIGHT ON March 1 . Call 2958 to claim 
AUDinONSI 3/24. Caii2B4·5450 THE SLOPES! CALL MIKE AT 283-3573 King of the world tonight--king of the gut­HAPPY 211t BIRTHDAY!! SUNDAY 3-10-85 AT 2:00 FOR INFORMATION OR TO SIGN-UP. ter tomorrow. SMC LITTLE THEATRE KATHERINE A. MEEK
Riders needed to NJ on 3/16 PARTS IN DIRECTING II PLAYS. call Sue 284-5194 Riders needed to Rochester, NY. Leaving BE THERE OR BE SQUARE! FOR RENT 3/14 and returning 3/24. Call Frank at 
Need a ride to Rochester, NY for Spring 1422. NEED ride for two to UTICA, NY AREA for To a dlltlngulahed member of the Elite 
Break. Would like to leave after NCAA break'!! Help us out..$$$ Call x2825 or Gardenera--we hope you have a terrific Nice semi-furnished house. 3/4 students, gameon3/16. Terry 1888. NEED EXTRA $. SELL YOUR CLASS x3230 day! 255-3684/288-0955. BOOKS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937
I LOST/FOUND I 

Looking for TWO riders to Austin,TX. SO.BEND AVE,M·F B/T12-4PM. WE WELCOME, JENI!! (Is that a work of art Love, M.O., M. Y ., S.S. Nice 2 student semi-furnished house, Depart 15;Depart TX 23; Steve 1163 ALSO OFFER A 3 DAY SERVICE FOR OR WHAT'?) 
288-()955/277-3604. •.. .....................................¥"'''''''"'''''''''' USED BOOKS . 
A calculator found in Hayes-Healy. If you Wanted: Current Sophomore and Junior HEY BEETHOVEN, DESPITE ALL I'VE lost one call BRUSH to claim it at1150. RENTING NOW FOR NEXT SCHOOL Accounting Majors to work as Assi stan! OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, SAID, I'M STILL INTERESTED. DO YOU AUDITIONS YEAR-FIVE & SIX BEDROOM HOMES, Controllers for Student Activities Board. CARRY OUT 'nL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., BELIEVE IN 2nd CHANCES? ML DIRECTING II PLAYS LOST: ONE PAIR OF BLACK LEATHER COMPLETELY FURNISHED WITH Personal interviews will be held from ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. SUNDAY, 3-1Q-85, 2:00 SKI GLOVES BUT I DQNT KNOW WASHER & DRYER. CALL 234·9364 Monday, March 11th to Wednesday, HEY K·MAN, I HEARRRRRD THAT! SMC LITILE THEATRE WHERE. CALL CHRIS IF FOUND AT AFTER5. 
March 13th. CaH 3349 for appointment or 1150. leave name and phone at the Controller's HAPPY 20TH B-DAY RACE, THE GUITAR PLAYER LOOKING TO START HEY ALL YOU ND-SMC COOL CATS 
Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune. BERMUDA-BOUND SOCIALITE. /l BAND OR JOIN AN EXISTING ONE. AND CHICKS, ROCK AROUND THE FOUND: Ladie's watch during breakfast READY FOR MORE FUN THAN NEEDS All THE HELP HE CAN GET. CLOCK 'Ttl YOU DROP AT THE (Thursday, 2/28) at North Dining Hall. WANTED Relatives traveling from El s.lvedor to HUMANS ARE ALLOWED TO HAVE! CALL ANDY 3039 LEMANS SOCK HOP, FRIDAY 9PM­Cal 1101 (Gary, Jim, or Bubba) to iden· see beloved president. So. I need many 2AM IN THE LEMANS LOBBY. lily. COMMENCEMENT tickets. Call 3811 or RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED TO UNIV. DAVE & 
you may find a guerilla at your door. 
OF IOWA, IOWA CITY THIS WEEKEND. ROB:MUR..MUR .. MUR.. MUR!LOVE LEMANS SOCK HOP 3-8-85 LOIIt: A girl's GOLD bracelet, somewhere LEAVING THIS FRIDAY THE 8th AND YA!THE D2 WOMEN LEMANS SOCK HOP 3-8-85 on campus. Saturday, March 2. It was a WE ARE DESPERATE! Aide needed for RETURNING THE 10th. CALL JEFF AT LEMANS SOCK HOP 3-8-85 gift, and is ol great sentimental value. If RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN I or 2 people TO or NEAR PADRES IS­1118. GODSPELL MASS A MASS FEATUR· $1.00 ADMISSION found, PLEASE return to AUne--238 LEAVE ANY nME AFTER THURSDAY LAND! CALL MICHELLE OR KAREN! lNG MUSIC FROM GODSPELL WILL BE Lewis, X2179. Please have a consoence' MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE 2674 FREE DRINK WITH YOUR SUB CALL CELEBRATED IN THE CAVANAUGH Dear Mike REWARD OFFERED!' USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. THE 'VELLOW SUB FOR DELIVERY AT HALL CHAPEL THIS SUNDAY. MARCH You've mastered the foil and picked up 
NEED AIDE TO MD. D.C. AREA FOR 272-4453 MQ-TH 8-11pm FA-SA 8pm-10, AT 10:30 P.M. ALL ARE INVITED TO the phone quickly enough. Would it be as­LOST: Neddace with single pearl in the 1am ATIEND. king too much to learn to tell time? You're 
BREAK CALL M.E. 1268 women's locker room at the Rock on Sun. a good guy and maybe we can make you night. Would it help if I said it had sen­EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME AS­NEED TWO (2) RIDES TO NEW JER­I'm a Southerner going west for break. SLAM, WILL THY NAME ARISE FROM even better. Aren't you glad you mel us? 
timental value.. it does. Please call TRISH SEMBLY WORK. FOR INFO CALL 504-SEY FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL Need ski jacket. Will pay $$. Call Marc THE WHITE BANKS OF THE PAST ? Love Reg and Jim at 232-o659. 646-()315 EXT B-1938. SARAH, 1333. 1158 MA.ADULTRY 

The Observer 
Friday, March 8, 1985 -page 11 

Morrissey gains revenge over Grace in interhall 
ByJERRY MELIA 
Sports Writer 
It was being called "the miracle on Juniper Avenue" by those who lived in Grace when they defeated Morrissey in the first game of the championships of the men's inter­hall league. Grace's bubble was burst last night, though, when the Manor won the title in the ACC Pit, 50-42. 
Grace was the sixth-seeded team going into the tournament and Wa5 obviously not expected to be one of the teams to be participating in the finals. Grace began its road to the finals by handling Flanner in the bat­tle of the towers. 
In the second round, Grace saw it­self matched against Morrissey, which had edged Grace by a two­point margin twice in the regular season. The result of this game wasn't any different from the previ­ous two encounters. This 47-45 loss forced Grace into the losers' bracket, where they went on to beat Flanner again, St. Ed's and then the top-seeded team in the tourney, Sorin, to gain a birth in the finals. 
Morrissey received a first-round bye. They then squeeked by Grace and Sorin to emerge from the win­ners' bracket into the finals. \!­
Grace was at somewhat ofa disad­
vantage going into the 
championship because they knew 
they had to win two games for the 
title while Morrissey only had to 
manage one victory.B'\>th teams ob­
viously played with this in mind 
when they went int<~ the Pit on Tues­
day night. 

Grace shot the eyes out ofthe bas­ket and dominated the entire game. Rich Pascuzzo, Grace captain, was the big gun for his team, scoring 13 points, including 7-of-7 from the foul line in the second half. 
Pascuzzo wasn't the only Grace player efficient from the charity stripe. The entire team shot 15-1 7 in. the second half, which iced the game. 
"The key to their game was their shooting," said Steve Treacy, Morris­sey captain. "They just didn't miss. The game was close throughout un­til they got up by six in the fourth quarter. We tried to foul, but they made all of their shots, which made it impossible to come back." 
Pascuzzo said he was was very pleased with his team's perfor­mance. 
"We put everything together," he said. "Everyone on the team played well and we felt this was the only way we were going to beat them." 

This Grace victory set up the fifth and tlnal meeting between these two teams. Morrissey had won three ofthe previous four, but this statistic was ofno meaning. The entire men's interhall league championship had come down to this final game. 
Both teams started the game off cold from the floor. This could be at­tributed to championship jittters and nervousness. However, both teams settled down and traded bas­kets for the entire first quarter. Grace had a chance to build up an early lead but missed four out offive from the line. The count at the end of the quarter was 12-1 1 in favor of Morrissey. 
Grace showed some signs of the dominance they exhibited in game one of the championship ·series when they built a 21-18 advantage. 
However, the Manor came back by playing strong defense and forcing their opposition into turning the ball over and missing shots. They scored the last eight points ofthe half while holding Grace scoreless for the last five minutes. The score at halftime was 26-21, Morrissey. 
Although Morrissey increased its lead to seven in the third quarter, they threw the ball away and took low-percentage shots throughout. Grace could not capitalize because they were too busy making their own mistakes. 
Grace made a charge in the fourth quarter. They tightened up their defense and didn't allow any second shots. Offensively, Pascuzzo was making things happen by hitting shots from long range as well as dis­hing off a few assists. Pascuzzo's 12­point effort just was not enough as Greg Dingens and Brian Koehr scored 12 and 13, respectively. 
The Grace rally was sputtered by what had plagued them the entire evening: turnovers and poor shot se­lection. They reduced Morrissey's lead to one, 41-40, with a little over two minutes remaining. Grace was forced to foul, Morrissey converted on their attempts from the line and that was all she wrote. 
Morrissey ended the game with a 9-1 spurt which made the final 50­42. 
"They're a good team," said Mor­rissey co-captain Keith Veselik, "but we played our game and were a little more relaxed than Tuesday." 
Morrissey's players ought to con­sider themselves lucky that they did not fall victim to the valiant effortsof this come-from-nowhere Grace squad. 

Women's interhall hoops 
Farley forces second game with PE 
By~CHAELFLANNERY 
Sports Writer 
The women's interhall basketball season is not over yet. Farley beat Pasquerilla East, 40-33, last night to force a one-game playoff on Sunday. The second game, forced by the tournament's double-elimination rule, will be played Sunday at 7 p.m. 
Last night was Mary Borkowski's game from the opening tip. The Far­ley sophomore was all over the court, directing the fast break, playing tough defense and scoring half of her team's points in the process. Borkowski is a smooth Southpaw who has had previous var­sity basketball experience. She showed last night why Mary DiS­tanislao asked her to play on the 19H3-H4 squad as a freshman. 
Both teams opened up in 2-3 zone defenses and both looked to es­tablish their inside game. Julie Pietras scored early for farley while Reggie Richter answered for PE. The 
****************************** 
~ JAM PRODUCTIONS presents : 
~ * 
~ TUESDAV,APRIL23RD...:.7:30PM : 
~ All Front Stage Seats $14.50-Reserved * iC (6 Ticket Limit) * ~ There wiU bea NDISMC STUDENTS ONLY TkltetSale : iC Tuesday, March 12th at the A.C.C. Gate 10 Box Office * iC NO students may arrive at Gate 10before 6:00AM * ~ Those present by 7:00AM willentera loUery : iC to establish order ofposition in linefor ticket purchase * iC-Sale will start at8:00AM ** 
-
-
iC Thissaleis/orND/SMCStudentsONLY ** iC and will ONLY take place Tuesdayp March 12 * iC You MUST presenta VALID ID * ~ To be ineluded in this oneday onlyadvance ticltetsale : -b~~qri~b~k * -* 
~ AFfER MARCH 12 TICKETS WILL NOT BE ~. iC AVAILABLE UNTIL MONDAY, MARCH 18 * 
-***************************** 
mirror images continued as each squad took turns at scoring on the fast break. Susie Fessler's layup gave PEa 13-12 first-quarter lead. 
The score remained close during the second quarter as neither team could make a substantial run. Borkowski beat the halftime buzzer to give Farley a 21-20 lead. 
Play became rough in the third quarter. It was clear that both teams wanted to win badly and were ready to fight for every rebound, every loose ball and every basket. Farley could only stretch its lead by one point, entering the fourth quarter with a slim 29·27 advantage. 
Tickets 
continuedfrom page 16 
lished by the NCAA which Notre Dame must follow, single-session tickets cannot be sold until 24 hours before the first game, meaning Wed­nesday at 12:07 p.m. 

The only thing is, don't count on any tickets being left at that time, es­pecially if someone like Purdue also is playing here. What it comes down to is that if the Irish are assigned to play at the ACC, and you want to see them play, not only will you have to buy tickets for all the games (which is a problem for those students leaving for break before Saturday), but you also ought to get out there early as the general public will have the same shot at the available tickets as students. 
The stretch run was a Borkowski highlight film. In the last six minutes, the flashy guard made a steal, hit a jumper, drove down the lane for a layup, pulled down two rebounds and canned two free throws. The foul shots came after Borkowski was hit hard by PE's Richter. It appeared for a moment that she might not get up, having fallen hard on her hip. But Borkowski proved that she is tough in the clutch in more ways than one; she limped to the foul line and buried the shots. 
Sunday's game in the ACC Pit will be for the women's interhall cham­pionship. 
Whether any of this seems fair or not is really a moot point. Notre Dame must follow the guidelines set down by the NCAA. The University is only acting as the NCAA's ticket agent in all this, so it can afford to look out for its own interest only marginally, although it would try to get as many tickets as possible should the Irish play here. 
IfNotre Dame should be assigned to the ACC and you want to see the game, the best advice is to be at the ACC ticket office Monday morning at 9:00(ifnot sooner)with your S30 in hand. It may be your onty chance at tickets beyond the scalper route. 
Before anyone breaks out their sleeping bag to camp out for tickets, though, the Irish still must be as­signed to play here. And, in all honesty, that is no sure thing. They will be in the tournament, but not necessarily here. 
SOberingAdvice-= 
cansavealife\ 
Think Before You Drink 
·.4.·
Before You Dr1ve .­



The Observer Friday, March 8, 1985 -page 12 
Constable and Patterson 
\ Seniors head to NCAA track finals.~ 
\ ByNICK SCHRANTZ bar at seven feet, three-and-one-half impressive statistics, Constable won ~ Sports Writer inches in a dual meet against DePaul his event in five meets and finished onjan. 2';. He barely missed his next third at the prestigious IC4A Cham­The Notre Dame indoor track attempt at 7-<;, but his successful pionships and second at the Illini In­team has had qualifiers for the NCAA jump allowed him to participate this vitational. Indoor Championships in only two weekend. Patterson has competed in many events in the last 1 5 years. This year, Both Constable and Patterson en­events during his career, but this 
~ however, Irish seniors Uoyd Con­tered Notre Dame with high hopes, year has been able to concentrate \ stable and James Patterson have but neither totally fulfilled his po­solely on the long jump and high\ surpassed the tough qualifying tential until this year. jump.\ standards and will compete this Constable holds the Notre Dame He holds the school indoor and weekend in the NCAA Champion­record for both the indoor and out­outdoor records in both the long
~ 
ships in Syracuse, N.Y. door high jump. He lept 7-2 in an jump and triple jump. He set the out­
\ 
Patterson qualified for the long outdoor meet in l9H2, while his door records in 1984 and came on
'\ jump just last weekend at the IC4A jump against Iowa set the indoor strong this season to set the indoor
\ 
Championships in Princeton, N.J. record. records. He triple jumped forty-nine \ The University City, Mo., native No other Notre Dame high feet, seven-and-three-quarters 
leaped 25-5 on his last possible jumper has cleared seven feet, but inches in the Indiana Intercollegiate~ jump, which is three inches more Constable has jumped 7-0 or better Meet, to surpass the previous record ~ than he needed to make the NCAAs. eight times this season and several by two inches. His leap of25-5 in the 
\ 
~ 
l 
1 
l 
l 
~ . 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
) 
~ 
\ ~ . 
~ 
< 
\ 
'\ 
I •' \ 
Constable cleared the high jump other times in the past. With these IC4A long jump broke his old school 
Football team announces coachiQ.g changes for spring 
Special to the Observer tinued, "and that's going to re­quire all of Ron's attention this 
Ron Hudson, offensive coord­spring and it:J. the fall. When it inator for the last two years for comes to planning the offense, the Notre Dame football team, the quarterback coach is going to has asked head coach Gerry Faust be just as involved as anyone else, to reassign his duties so Hudson anyway." can devote more of his time to Faust has appointed Mike working with the quarterbacks. Stock, Irish pass-receiver coach 
"Ron felt there was just not and recruiting coordinator, to enough time to do the job he take over the responsibilities of wanted when it came to working offensive coordinator. with the young quarterbacks as well as coordinating the ideas of "Mike has worked closely with the offensive staff," Faust said. our offensive system in the two "He's done a super job with Steve seasons he has been with us," Beuerlein, and he knows it's Faust said, "so I don't anticipate going to be important to spend a any real problems as far as what great deal of time with (Terry) we do offensively." Andrysiak, (Tom) Byrne and Mal Moore, Notre Dame assis­(Pat) Pesavento this spring. tant head coach and running 
"We want to be able to go into back coach, also will handle the the fall with confidence in our Irish specialty teams in 1985. backup quarterbacks," Faust con-Stock held that job last season. 
Ron Hudson 

•
Sunshine Promotions presents 



with Spedal Gaest WASP I Saturday. March 23, 8:00 pili Notre Dame,A.C.C. Kc,aerveld seat• $12.50•••General Admiaaion $11.50 
.. 



re<;ord by eight inches. 

Patterson has consistently long jumped over_ 24 feet and triple jumped 4H feet. The result has been five first-place finishes and several seconds in three large meets. 
The quality of competition at the NCAA Championships will be toug­her than at any other meet. However, both Constable and Pat­terson have jumped consistently all year and each has the ability to place high in his event. 

Pizza Hut~ Delivers a.Deal. 
For our friends at Notre Dame. 

Pizza Hut® is Rollin'Now! 
What could be better than tasty 
Hut~ pizza? How about Special 
and special savings! Pizza Hut is rolling now with free delivery-right to your door. Just call the number below and enjoy your Pizza Hut(!) pizza along with the special savings . 
'HOURS: 
Friday and Saturday -4:00 pm -2:00 am thru Thursday-4:00pm-12:00 M 


Limited Delivery Area Drivers carry no more than S20 
Free Delivery Call: 232·2499 
r----------------------------,
A 6-Topping Supreme Combination , Pizza for a 1-Topping Price! 
Get a Pizza Huf-6-topping Supreme in any size for the price of a 1-topping pizza in the same size. 
Please ment1on coupon when ordering. One coupon per 
•

party per del1very at participating Pizza Hut· Special 
Del1veryrM units. Not valid for dine-in or carry-out. or 
m combmat10n with any other Pizza Hut' offer. 
Limited Deltvery Area. Our drivers carry no more than 
$20. Offer qood only on regular menu prices through 
Coupon eKpires March 22.1985 
-·----~ 

Cash value 112(}4 1985 Ptua Hut. Inc. 
• ' CALL: 232-2499 . 
L------------------------~---~ 

• 
The Observer Friday, March 8, 1985 -page 13 
Seniors Quaroni and Janis have led Irish fencers 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's fencing ·team recently finished an outstand­
ing season as it went a perfect 23-0 
on the year and captured its second 
straight Great Lakes Championship 
last weekend enroute to a possible 
1985 national championship. 
The Irish have always realized good fortune in fencing and espe­cially in recent years. During the last four years, the Irish have comptled an 85-4 record. A common denominator for the success of the Irish during this period has been the epee-sabre duo ofAndy Quaroni and Mike Janis. 
"Both of them came here and started on the same day," explained Irish head coach Mike DeCicco. "I learned very, very quickly how dedi­cated they were to their sport: fen­cing. Mike and Andy both became an integral part ofour program." 
Quaroni, born in Italy, came to the United States for his senior year of high school. After hearing much about Notre Dame from people both here and abroad, he put it at the top ofhis list and decided to enroll. Cur· FCntly he is a biology major wfh hopes of attending dentistry school at a major university. 
"I had heard about Notre Dame since I was in Italy," said the senior. "When I came to the States, I stopped by for a tournament and Coach DeCicco and the teain made me feel real welcome and I liked the campus. I decided to attend, be­cause I really felt at home." 
In four years as a starter on the epee squad, Quaroni has compiled a 133-23 record and has been elected by his teammates as a captain twice. 
Last year, the Italian native took second place at the Great Lakes tour­

ney and won all-American honors in In the sabre, the Irish have been of them can go with the best. They look to replace them. Coach the epee at the NCAA tourney. truly led by the weapon ofJanis. The can beat anybody at any given time, DeCicco realizes that it may not be This year, he has once again Franklin Lakes, N.J., native said he as long as they don't let up." possible to replace such quality and 
qualified for the NCAAs with a 3 5-6 came to Notre Dame rather than any After finishing a strong third in last that the loss will be great. record and a strong showing in the of the East Coast schools because of year's springtime event, both cap­"It's going to be very, very sad this Great Lakes Championships and the its size, the atmosphere, and the tains believe that the chances for a spring when they graduate," said 
NCAA regional qualifying round. school in itself. third national title for the Irish DeCicco. "They do possess a great Quaroni and junior Christian "In Michael's case, he was pretty within a decade are very good. deal of honesty and integrity. Scherpe will both aim at a spot in the much the class ofthe team as a fresh­"On paper, no team should touch They're hard workers, and they're 
final six in the tourney and a final man," said DeCicco. us-we should definitely win it," said very, very much respected by the shot at unbeaten and defending janis. "People get nervous and rest of the team as witnessed by the champ Ettore Bianchi of Wayne In four years, the senior has also there's a lot of pressure. However, I fact that they're both double­State. been elected as a captain twice think that of the six people that we captains." "We are not even considered as while compiling an outstanding have going that we don't have any of While janis and Quaroni are 
having a shot at the title because record. With 157 wins against only those that choke under pressure. unsure about fencing directly after Bianchi is overrated -and justly so -27 losses, Janis is third on the all­Keeping level-headed and doing graduation as they will be trying to and there are a couple of kids from time Irish victory list and second on what we're capable of is the whole establish their careers, DeCicco said 
the East Coast that observers are the sabre list behind only Mike Sul­key." he does believe that they will have looking at as potential winners," said' livan ( 1976-79) who was 183-4 in "I think (the team's chances) are no problems in future leadership Quaroni. "Christian and I are not his four years. excellent," said Quaroni. "We're as roles with the examples that they set really considered in the race, and During his tour of duty with the close as I ever felt that we could be. here. this will work in our favor because Irish sabre squad, the senior has ex­If we're able to push the whole six people are not going to shoot for us perienced many great wins and .up to the top, I think that that's going "I gave them a lot of responsibili­as soon as they step into the gym." titles. to be a key because no other team ties and they handled them master­
For the year, Quaroni was shoot­"Big dual meet wins freshman has the potential to place that many fully," said DeCicco. "In fact, I think ing for an unbeaten record and year against Clemson and Wayne people on the all-American list as we that it's going to augur well for them hoping to provide the leadership State were really special because could." in the future in being able to work needed to propel his squad to suc­Andy and I were both freshmen and In May, the Irish will lose these with people because of the experi­cess. While he was challenged by starters as freshmen," said janis. two leaders to graduation and will ence that they've had here." some outstanding epeeists and inter­"Against Wayne State, Andy had national champions, he was able to beaten Wayne State for the 14th 
Swimmers rank eighth in Midwest 

lead his squad in winning 80 percent bout (in a 14-13 Irish win)." ofthe bouts that they fenced. In 1982,Janis finished 18th in the 
After one day ofcompetition in nedy won sixth place with "It has been frustrating at times NCAA tournament as a freshman. As 
the Midwest Independent Men's 3 75.85 points in the one-meter because of the different characters a sophomore, he took third at the 
Swimming and Diving Cham­diving competition. on the team," said the epee captain. Great Lakes tourney. Last year he 
pionships at the University of Notre Dame's 400-yard med­"While it was not the easiest oftasks, took first in the tourney and went on 
Illinois-Chicago, the Notre Dame ley relay team placed eighth in it was very rewarding. In the end, it to finish 14th in the NCAA sabre 
men's swim team is ranked that event. The team of Bohdan, all paid off, and we pulled together division. This year, however, he 
eighth in a field of 12 teams. Paul Benz, Brian Casey and Jeff very nicely as a team. finished fourth in the Great Lakes 
Tim Bohdan led the Irish yes­Grace finished in 3:35.40. event with a 12-3 mark. Ahead of 
terday with a time of 1:57.88 in "I thought that I could improve him were juniors Don johnson ( 13· 
the 200-yard individual medley. There still are two more days upon my winning percentage, but 2) and John Edwards ( 14-1 ), who 
His time was good enough for of competition in the meet, in that didn't come through," contin­went on to fill out the two-man sabre 
only eighth place in the meet, but which the Irish captured eighth ued the senior. "I personally wanted roster for the Irish. 
it establishes a new school place last season. The scores still to have an undefeated·season, and al­"I would like to have gone to the 
record. are relatively close, so Notre though that didn't come through, it NCAAs, but we're sending two very 
John Koselka took sixth place Dame has a chance to move up still feels like it did because the team good candidates and I'm happy for 
in the 50-yard freestyle with a the list in today's and tomorrow's was undefeated. I feel very, very them," said janis. "I think that 
time of 0:21.59, and Mike Ken-events. rewarded and proud ofthis team." they're going to do very well. Both 

I The Observer I 
I ' 

Bouts 
. continuedfrom page 16 

\ 
Watzke will be looking for his first Bengals championship when he squares off with classmate Ed Gavagan. Watzke had an easy route to the semis, getting a first-round bye, and he then handled freshman Tom Cummings easily. Gavagan didn't have quite such any easy time. He survived a dogfight with)oe Sim­mons in the semis that left both fighters black and blue. 
Two friends will go at it for the 165-pound championship, but only one will come away a winner. Don "Transpo" Antrobus will meet Tom 
'Hardart in this one. Hardart entered the tournament as the top-seeded 165-pounder, and he won a unani­mous decision over Steve Freschi in the semis. "Transpo" got his second 

\' 
straight TKO of the tournament in the semis when the referee stopped the fight at the 54-second mark of the third. 
Dave Packo is going to have his gloves full when he steps into the ring against junior Grant "Gale Force" Gailus. Packo beat Kevin Hamer for the right to fight in the finals. Gailus beat up on Tim Lyons in the semis. He's tough and Packo isn't going to have an easy three rounds. 
Jim Vignone hasn't fought since last Sunday because of a win by for­feit in the semis, but in his only fight he TKO'd Brian Keenan by the 35­second mark of the second. Vignone will meet Dave Sassano in the finals for the heavyweight crown. 
If the superheavyweight final is 


anything like ·the semis. then the •
I 
Than<stoyou... itwortcs... for 
ALL OFUS Unitedway 
. 

fight better take place in the parking lot. There's going to be a lot of. merciless blows delivered that are guaranteed to do a whole lot of damage. Tom Rehder won -no, survived -his bout with Dave Butler in the semis. Don't count on Rehder using a lot of technique; he just likes to wind up and let her go. And have some pity for Pernell Taylor who is scheduled to take on Rehder. "Big Train" Taylor has yet to fight, but don't worry; he'll deliver his share of the blows. There will be no winner in this one. There may be two sur­vivors. 
Men 
continuedfrom page 16 

its two wins over DePaul during the season. 
The Flyers also will be: trying to avenge their 66-6I loss to the Irish at the ACC in late january, a loss which ended a nine-game Dayton winning streak. Senior center Dave Colbert led all scorers in that game with 22 points on I0-of-12 shooting from the field and 2-of-2 from the line. Colbert continues to pace the Flyer attack, averaging 16.9 points and 7.6 rebounds per game. 
Women 
continuedfrom page 16 

a game was 96, set against Marquette on Nov. 22, I983. 
Also a record in the Xavier game was the .702 shooting percentage of the Irish from the floor, as they capi­talized on an abundance of easy shots over the Xavier defense. 
As could be expected, many Irish substitutes saw action in the contest, including 6-3 freshman forward Kathy Brommeland, who scored 20 points and grabbed 5 rebounds. 
If the Irish can stop Xavier's one premier player, forward Stacey Land, t~e bench should get another opportunity to show its stuff. 
The 6-0 senior has stood near the top of the conference charts all season with a 21.3 points-per-game average and an 8.0 rebounds-per­game clip. 
"Land is real strong and uses her strength well," said Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao earlier this season. "She's not particularly quick, but she can power to the basket and has a good touch on her turnaround." 
S-7 guaM Shannon Sowers ~so is potent in the Lady Musketeers' at­tack, as is 5-10 sophomore guard Maureen Frederick, who tallied 17 points to pace her team m the first game against the Irish. 
Perhaps some comforting notes for Xavier would be that there is little chance that the Irish can shoot any better than they did in the first game, and that the Musketeers them­selves have been playing more care­fully lately, in an attempt to cut down the sloppy ballhandling which translated into 32 turnovers in that previous meeting. 

I 
Happy Birthday Special 
•
i 

You and yourfriends can have your very own Observer display ad 
l$1595 I 
Jtl. We accept almost any picture, almost any information -¥ Just give us the material by 1pm two publishing days prior to the birthday 
For only afew dollars perfriend you can give this one-of-a-kind g{ft that won't be lived down for years 
The Observer, 303 Lafortune Student Center, 239-5303 
............................................................................................. 
Friday, March 8. 198S -page 14 
The only other Flyer to make much of a contribution in the five­point loss was junior forward Damon Goodwin, who averages I3 points per game. He chipped in with I0 points in the game at the ACC. At the other spot up front, the Flyers start sophomore Anthony Grant ( I I.; ppg., 6.5 rpg. ). The backcourt is made up of seniors Sedric Toney ( I2.8 ppg.) and Larry Schellenberg ( 5.4 ppg., I30 assists). 
Ken Barlow led all Notre Dame scorers in the Irish victory over the Flyers with 19 points. Barlow, who has been struggling somewhat lately, will try to get back on the 
right track tomorrow. 

"Kenny's heen having some prob­lem~; '<'oring latt'ly ·· comments Phelps. "A lot of that can he solved by him hitting the boards harder and going to the hole more. He can do these things for us; he's done them for us in the past, and we need him to do them for us in the future. And he will do them." 
The rest of the Notre Dame team will hope to maintain the level of play which has led to impressive wins in the last week. But beyond that, the Irish will be hoping for something else -their 20th win and an NCAA bid.
• 
Briefs 
cominuedjrom page 10 

The ND women's tennis team opened its 
spring season Tuesda~ with an 8-1 victory over Purdue in the ACC. Susie Panther ddeated Molly McGrath in number-one singles, 2-6, 6-3, 6-1, to lead a sweep of the singles matches for the Irish. Other singles victor!> mclude Mary Colligan, Lisa Lafratta, Michelle Dasso, joAnne Biafore and Izzy O'Brien. The Boilermakers' McGrath and Krista Schreck took the first doubles team of Panther and Laura Lee, but Notre Dame's LaFratta/Colligan and Cathy Schnell/Dasso teams took the second and third doubles matches. The Irish will be on the road to play Ohio State and Iowa this weekend. -The Obsero~ 
The MS softball tournament has been res­cheduled to March 26-31. Teams of five men and five women may register in the Lafortune lobby on Wednesday, March 13, from 7:30 
p.m. to 9:30 p.m. The registration fee is S10, which goes to MS. The winning team will win dinner at Amigo's restaurant. For more infor­mation, call Steve at 283-1045.-The Obsen,er· 
Afl aerobiCS inStruCtOr is being sought by NVA for 
the 1985-86 school year. Anyone who is interested may fill out an application at the NVA office in the ACC. For more information, call 239-669CJ.-The Obsen•er 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune.,Briefs must be clearly written.· The Obserl'er 
~------------CE~B~----------~ 
SPRING BREAK '85 
in 
Ft. lauderdale .. 

on the beach 
10amto6pm POOLSIDE PARTIES 

UVE D.J. EMCEEING POOLSIDE CONTEST • WATER VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT • FREE BEER CHUG REL\YS • FREE T·SHIRT RELAYS THE BELLYFLOP CONTEST • AND CUMAX THE DAY WITH ... THE WE IIEST, WET T·SHIRT CONTEST FEATURED IN PLAYBOY MAGAZINE CASH PRIZES • FREE T·SHIRTS • AND OTHER GIVEAWAYS 
7pmto8pm COLLEGE HAPPY HOUR 
Monday. March tl,1915 
..... IMNO MaAK -T-IIHNIT WITH II'AID ADIIIS8fON !'OR MOW COLUOI STUDENTS BETWEIN 7 O'CLOCK AND 8 O'CLOCK WITH PROPEII COlLEGE I.D. 
ALL BAR DRINKS AND DRAFT BEER -75~ COMPETE IN THE BEER CHUGGING CONTEST FOR TROPHIES, PRIZES 
EVENINGS 
SUMMERS on the beach presents... 

FT. LAUDERDALE'S FINEST ROCK 'N ROLL BAND NIGHTLY PLUS OUR INTERNATIONALLY ACCLAIMED D.J. SPINNING THE BEST DANCE MUSIC AND ALL DAY, ALL NIGHT MUSIC VIDEO. 
------CliP ANO SAVE-·----------Cltl' AND SAIIF----­
I . 
Notre Dome Monday,~ 11,1915
lr' 
I NlGHnY EVENTS
I MONDAY: ContMt Nlte 
SATURDAY:
Prtz• Mel glve8wa~ 
Come and Party till3 AMI TUESDAY and FRIDAY: "Beet Bun& on the Beech" Contelt THURSDAY: ......... .., "'-wboY MeeuiM Look for National eonc.t Acta $175.00 Cash Prtz.. 
SUNDAY: WEDi-IESOAY: VIdeo Mualc N~ht 
s,.clal Ev.nts N~ht .,._toour--..._.-.,..... 
T-8hlrtgto ••-ve .._'""'-betwMrl ....... ­ONE FREE BAR DRINK OR DRAFT 
GOOD FROM 7-8 PM NIGHTLY 
IL""" one per CUOI­
su.NERS on~ bMCII • 219 S Altentk: BNd. l'l L.audefdele. Floride 33316 • (305) ~-8978 (localed one-haH blOCk Nortfl of Lat Olat BMI on .0.1A) 
SPRING BREAK '85 

\ . 



Friday, March 8, 1985 -page 15 • 



45 Actress Joanne 53 Substance 46 Pulverized 54 Br.composer 47 Single time 55 "The Man"
The Daily Cros~ord 
48 Fabric 56 Concerning 49 lt. commune 59 FOR program 50 Of sound 60 Norse goddess 
ACROSS 33 Beastofburdan 66 Want separate 11 Shady recess 51 Smelting of healing 1 Mideast strip 36 Output of ways 12 Electrical unit product 61 Swiss river 5 Hitch Neil Simon 67 Gambling town 13 River ducks 
11 Toward the 38 Samovar 18 Protection Yesterday's Solution 
stem 39 Author Mark 23 Dried grass 14 Finished 41 Fictional uncle 15 Portugal port 42 Carried on 24 Sly 16 Charlotte 44 Ray of films 25 Circular 
ofTV 45 Monet con-26 Existence 
· 17 Coward opus temporary 27 Cartographer's 19 Half a bikini 46 Shy work 20 Mrs. Cantor 48 Drawback DOWN 28 Earthenware 21 Earn 51 Neck hair 1 Large desert 29 Paper pack 22 Group of fish 52 With regard to 2 Greedy 30 Some horses 24 Tropical fruits 53 Male: abbr. 3 Gr. letter 32 Xavier of music 25 Gratifies 54 Pretty-4-Deco 33 Eastern 27 Gloomy picture 5 Animal food university 30 Legal tender 57 Thither 6 Point in orbit 34 Assists 31 Haley the 58 People in love 7 Planted 35 Cockade 
author 62 Wave:Sp. 8 Sophia's three 37 Sugar apple 32-celebre 63 Narcotic 9 Summer: Fr. 40 Walk through (notorious 64 Med. course 10 "It is-with water 
© 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. incident) 65 Nothing nimble feet..." 43 Eastern VIP 
All Rights Reserved 
3/8/85
3/8/85 


Doonesbury 
.. ANPCI:WSCieVAT!VELY5PEAK­ING, ~ 7!1/NK 7HIS PROJCCT caJt.l) RAI5C a0S£ 70! -'1200 MllUCW/ 
Zeto 
AlJ C1MON 2ETO I 
DON'T6tT AN6RY WITH ME" YDJR 
SISTER A.SKE'D ME 

Bloom County 

Garry Trudeau  
/£T'S fXJ IT!  IAHJ5 "HIJN6CR INAfflCA"<'  I 7HINK./rt; ANlf/57R4L.IANDANO.  
\  

Kevin Walsh 
SIMPLE I RfM/ND
ALRIGHTI BVT JUST 

I WAS RcFERRI N6 
THEM ·oF ROCKY1 
TJ THE FLYIN6
TELL ME HJ\..1 YaJ 
SQUIRREL!
AnRACfED ALL OF 
1 HOSE 61 RLS! 


Berke Breathed The Far Side 
"' beg your pardon, but you'N not planning just to throw thai fly awar. are rour < 
Campus 
Friday, March 8 
•12: 
1 5 p.m. -Sophomore Class Mass, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by Sophomore Advisory Council. 

•12:
15 -1: l 5 p.m. -Presentation, Summer Work, Study & Travel Opportunities in Ireland & Britain, Little Theatre, LaFortune. 

•12: 
1 5 -1 p.m. -Faculty Forum, "The Bishops' Letter and the Rights of Labor," Charles Craypo, ND, Brown Bag or Soup and Bread, S1. 

•4 
p.m. -Graduate Seminar, "The Use of Right Half Plane Zeros to Discriminate Reaction Mecha­nisms" and "Photoassisted Dissociation of Water by Visible Light in the Presence of Hetergeneous Catalysts," john Dever and Laura Loy, ND Cheg. Graduate Students, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•5:30 
-7:30 p.m. -Dance Concert, Chameleon pub -Haggar, Sponsored by Abiogenesis & The Chameleon Club. 

•
7, 9:15 & 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Raiders of the Lost Ark," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu­dent Activities Board. 

•7 
p.m.-Shenanigans Concert, The Nazz. 

•7:30 
p.m.-BengalBouts-Finals, Stepan Center. 

•7:30 
& 9:45 p.m.-Friday Night Film Series, "Nostalgia," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m.-Dramatic Production, "Electra," Wash­ington Hall, Sponsored by Notre Dame/St. Mary's Theatre, S2.50. 

•9 
p.m. -1:30 a.m. -Carnival Night A Dance, Games, Prizes, Dancing, D.J., Pizza, Refreshments, Drawing for Trip to San Diego, South Dining Hall, Sponsored by Sophomore & Junior Class, S2 -All Proceeds go to MS Campaign. 


Saturday, March 9 
•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.-Film, "Raiders ofthe Lost Ark," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu­dent Activities Board. 

•9 
p.m. -12 a.m. -Concert, Catherine & Roseann McCabe, A Night of Folk Music, The Nazz. 


Sunday, March 10 
• 
2 p.m. -Music Interest Group Presentation, "The Young People's Recidel," Concert by Children of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Faculty, Room 11 5 Crowly Hall, Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 

•4 
p.m. -Concert, Faculty Piano Trio Concert, An­nenberg Auditorium. 



¥ourStudent Activities Board 
(The leaderin entertainment} is still working••• 
Yet to come: More Movies••• "The CoUon Club" 

An'l ostal Festivities
"Gone With The Wi~.d" The Collegiate Jazz Festival
"Footloose" "Bachelor Party" 


Joles­
*•
~era frol creatars ofJAWS 
lid 
STAR WARS. 
Friday 8t Saturday 
···: .· ..·-.::.;::.; 
7' 9:15, 11:30 
Engineering Au~. 
$1.50 


----·-------------------------------------------------~--~~-.------------------~ 
Friday, March 8, 1985 -page 16
SRorts 
I 
~ I 
\ I \ I 
I 
~ 
\'
I , I '\ \ 


I• 
~ I 
I·' 

Both Irish basketball teams head into final games 
Men travel to Dayton Arena for rematch ofindependents 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Assistant Sports Editor 
DAYI'ON, Ohio -Both teams will have the same goal -20 wins and an NCAA tournament hid -when the Notre Dame basketball team clashes with the University of Dayton to­morrow at UD Arena (noon EST, WNDU-TV). To be sure, victory will be no easy endeavor for either ofthe two 19-H clubs. 
For Notre Dame, the task of win­ning will be even tougher consider­ing the .location of the game. UD Arena is a pit where the fans are right on top of the court. The Flyers have lost only to Michigan en route to a 1S-1 record there this season. 
"I think our biggest concern is knowing how well they play at home," says Irish coach Digger Phelps. "The Dayton game has al­ways been a tough one for us, and this year will he no exception. Their crowd will be fired up. Their team will be fired up. And I'm sure they'll be ready. 
"But from our standpoint, we just have to go after it. We're in a good groove right now, and if we play to our potential, I think it's going to he an exciting game." 

Phelps has refused to comment this week on the NCAA tournament and his team's chances to make the 64-team field. t:ndoubtedly, the Irish-Flyer battle in the season finale will have implications for both teams with tournament bids coming out Sunday at ; p.m. (see related story bel~w ). 
"I can't worry about how many wins it will take to get into the NCAA tournament." the Irish coach says. ''I'm not on the committee and I don't know what they arc thinking right now. I've just told the team to win this game and finish 20-H, and then you've done all you can do." 
From Dayton's point of view, a win would give it the uncontested title in the mythical league of Mid­west independents in the first year of the set-up. The Flyers would be tied with DePaul in both overall record and record vs. the Midwest independents should the Blue Demons win Saturday at Marquette, but Dayton would win out based on 
·see MEN, page 14 
Women take on Xavier in last regular-season outing 

11M: 0'-rvrr/hu: IM:hcs 
points in that game, will be trying to get out ofhis currentslump when NotreDame takes on the Flyers tomorrow at UD Arena. jeff Blumb previews the game in his story at right. 
eight rebounds. Barlow, who led the Irish with 19 
Pride on the line 

Bengal Hooters fight finals tonight 
ByJOE BRUNEITI 
Sports Writer 
No big bucks and no cars are on the line in tonight's finals ofthe 55th Bengal Bouts, but there still are nine championships to be decided. And the lack of prizes going to the win­ners isn't going to to make the com­petition less than fierce; there is a whole lot ofpride on the line. 
Marshall "By the Law" Rogers will attempt to upset seniorJim Priola in the 140-pound championship. Rogers came out on top of a brawl with Tom Berens in the semis, and Priola TKO'd Pat McCormick at I :45 of the final round in his semifinal ., match. 

The Ed "Munster" Kelly and Tom "The Bull" Lezynski bout for the 145-pound crown promises to be a barnburner. It will pit Kelly's quick­ness against Lezynski's power­packed left. For "The Bull" to win his second Bengals crown he's going to have to box the fight of his life against the number-one-seeded Kelly, who probably is the best boxer in the tournament. 
"Smok~n"' Joe Collins will attempt to defeat upstart Jim "Quick" Silver 
NCAA tournament tickets may be a hot item 
It' 

DAYTON, Ohio-Last October l 5th the Notre Dame bas­ketball team held its first official practice of the 1984-8S season with one main goal in mind: to make the NCAA tournament. The season has been one of many ups and downs, but now, nearly five months later, the Irish will reach that goal Sunday when tournament pairings are an­nounced at 5 p.m. on CBS-TV. 
Tomorrow's game against Dayton at UD Arena is impor-. tant in many ways, yet, win or lose, _it's a pretty safe bet that Notre Dame will be a part ofthis year's 64-team field. After NIT appearances each ofthe last two years and post-season inactivity the year before, Notre Dame will finally make it back to the real thing, the NCAA tournament. But the Irish want more. 
A win ~omorrow would give the Irish 20 wins and, more imponantly, perhaps be enough to ensure that Notre Dame will be assigned to the Southeast Regional and the ACC for the first round. It isn't every year thin a school has the opponunity to play host to the NCAA tournament, so when the chance comes along, you take advantage of it. Obviously, Irish coach Digger Phelps would much prefer to play in his own backyard and pick up something of a home coun advantage. 
But what are Notre Dame's chances ofbeing assigned to play here? Will the Irish be placed here no matter if they win or lose tomorrow? Anyone's guess is as good as the next guy's. One thing you can be sure of, though, is that a 
Jeff Blumb 
Assistant Spcrts Editor 
win over Dayton would greatly increase the likelihood of Notre Dame being one of the eight teams in action at the ACC next Thursday. Should the Irish lose, though, Phelps can only pray for the chance to coach another game in the ACC before next November. 
Let us suppose that Notre Dame does, in fact, get as­signed to play in the Southeast Regional and the ACC. What, then, will the ticket situation be for Notre Dame fans, especially students? To be honest, it won't exactly be your average Notre Dame home basketball game. In fact, there may not even be all that many students there. 
Here is the lowdown on the ticket situation for the NCAA tournament should Notre Dame be assigned to play here. About 3,000 upper arena bleacher seats remain for the first-and second-round games to be played here next Thursday and Saturday. The catch is, the tickets must be bought as a package, and that package will put you out $30. 
Each of the eight schools playing here has been guaranteed at least 250 tickets, not inclusive of the 3,000, 
By MARTY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
Believe it or not, 'the 19HS North Star Conferen~e champion Notre Dame women's basketball team did not conclude its season with that big victory over Dayton last Wednesday afternoon. 
But the Irish may as well have ended it there. 
The regular season finale, tomor­row at 2 p.m. in Cincinnati against Xavier University, should give new meaning to the word "anticlimactic." 
The Irish, now 19-H on the season and 12-1 in the conference, will be looking for their second 20-win season in the last three years. 
They should reach that mark against a Lady Musketeer team that will limp onto the court for the last time this season, with a 3-24 season second year in the NSC with high hopes after finishing 10-16 last year ( 3-7 in the conference), the season has been one which the Musketeers will want to forget as quickly as pos­sible. 
slate  and  a  last-place  conference  
mark of 1-12.  
For  Xavier,  which  began  its  


Ninth-year head coach Laurie Massa's squad has had to struggle to score 70 points in any contest, while the defense has been almost nonex­istent, allowing opponents to score l 00 points at least six times this season. 
One of those 100-point slayings suffered by the Lady Musketeers came from the sheaths of the Fight­ing Irish. Or more appropriately, from Notre Dame forward Mary Beth Schueth, who scored 18 points and collected eight steals in a I07­6~ raid on Feb. 9. That game set a Notre Dame team record for most points in a single contest. 
The previous record for points in 
see WOMEN, page 14 
for the 1 SO-pound cro-:wn. Collins entered the Bengals as the number­two-seeded 150-pounder. Silver up­set number-one seed Mike Latz in the semis in a split decision. 
Jeff "Wipe-Out" Anhut upset Ted Gradel to garner his berth to the finals of the ISS-pound champion­ship. Anhut will have to defeat Ed Reilly if he wants to collect his first Bengals crown. 
The 160-pound bout promises to be a dandy from the first bell until the end of round three. Senior Dan 
see BOUTS, page 14 


to do whatever it pleases with. Sunday night when bids come out, Notre Dame Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski, who is the acting ticket agent for the NCAA, will be in touch with all eight of the schools assigned to play at the ACC to see if they would like a portion of the other 3,000. After finding out what everyone wants, Bobinski will at­tempt to divide the tickets up equitably. In all likelihood, the sum of the eight's desires will be in excess of the available 3,000. 
The implication for Notre Dame should it be assigned to play here, then, is that the University will have its base al­lotment of 250 plus whatever its share of the remaining 3,000 turns out to be, the share hinging somewhat on the demands ofthe seven other schools. Ifa nearby school, like say Purdue or DePaul, were assigned to the ACC, you can bet the demand for tickets would be even greater than if it were just Notre Dame here. The same would be true if a team like Memphis State, which has a big fan following, was given a first-round game here. 
Notre Dame students wishing to purchase tickets for the tournament, who have not already done so, must be in line to purcha'iC tickets Monday morning at the ACC ticket of­fice beginning at 9:00. According to Bobinski, there will be no sale oftickets made expressly to students and the entire package will have to be purchased. Under guidelines estab­
see TICKETS, page 11 

I'
; 
.r
I . 






