Hesburgh viewpoint -page 5 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1985
VOL XX, NO. 58 

I 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
The Obscrver/Hanncs Hacker 
Chuck Beretz gave Lyons Hall resident Nancy Wehner (above) some sweet revenge during the "Cream Your Favorite Lyontte" fund raiser held Friday. jennifer Cbrlstte also dished out an extra ef­fort to victim Anne Digiovanna (left) in order to get ber money's worth. By the end ofthefund raiser, many creamed casualties could be found under the Lyons archway. Lyons Hall used all prpceeds from the fun to benefit a needy Cam­bodian family. A September vol­leyball tournament beneftttng the Logan Center for Handicapped Children preceded the "Cream Your Favorite Lyonite" activity. 


Egyptian plane raid leaves 50 dead 
A.uocllted P~u 
VALLEITA, Malta · Egyptian com­mandos stormed a hijacked Egyptalr jetliner last night, and an explosion and gunfire during the assault ldlled a.'l many as ~0 people aboard the Boeing 737, a government spokes­man said. 
The jetliner is the same plane U.S. Navy jets Intercepted last month with the Achllle Lauro pirates on board. 
"There are about ~0 dead by bul­let or fire," spokesman Paul Mifsud told reporters two hours after the as­sault. 
Deputy U.S. Embassy Chief Joel Levy said there were three Americans aboard the Egyptair jet­liner and one was ldlled. He said at least two bodies, Including that ofan American, were thrown olfthe plane before the assault. Several wounded passengers, Including the two other Americans, also were tossed olf and I I women were allowed to leave before the commando charge. 
Mifsud said the hijackers hurled hand grenades at the passengers when they realized the plane was being stormed, and the resulting fire destroyed the Inside ofthe jetliner. 
The victims "were trapped inside 
and couldn't get out," he added. 
Malta's state-run television said 
about 80 people were on the jetliner 
when the commandos attacked. It 
said 28 wounded people were taken 
to hospitals. 
Mifsud said Prime Minister Car­
melo Mifsud Bonnici authorized the 
assault because "the situation was 
getting out ofhand." He added that it 
was totally an Egyptian operation. 
Mifsud quoted the pilot, Capt. Hani Galal, as saying the hijack leader was "a madman" who sang and danced each time he shot a hostage and tossed the body from the plane onto the tarmac. 
Galal earlier told authorities by 
radio that the hijackers had ldlled 
seven people. 
As the commandos stormed the 
plane, Galal killed the hijack leader 
with an ax, Mifsud said. 
The pilot, his head bandaged and his jacket and white shirt spotted with blood, told a news conference that the hijack leader singled out Americans and Israelis "for execu­.tlon." 
"It was "awful. ... But our only hope was the storming," Galal said. 
The assault troops ..were tacing first­class killers. They were desperate and would hot hestiate to blow up the plane." 
Galal, a pilot for I 5 years, said he fully agreed with the decision to storm the plane::. 
"I think the storming operation was very, very well conducted. But we were not lucky," Galal said, ad­ding "We are lucky to save about 26." 
"It's not a very happy ending at all," said Levy, two hours after the assault. 
Asked about Egyptian reports that no passengers were killed, he told The Associated Press: "that's not the case at all." 
Levy said he did not know what caused the explosion, but that it hap­pened after the commandos blew open the two doors. He called that "fairly standard procedure." 
The Inferno that followed killed "what we are estimating to be as many as 40 or 50 people." 
Levy told reporters the com­mandos attacked at 8:20 p.m. ( 2:20 
p.m. EST), about 24 hours after the jetliner en ' route from Athens, Greece, to Cairo, Egypt, was coman­deered and diverted to Malta. 


Resident assistants to meet with Tyson regarding do Lac 
By MARK PANKOWSKI that it was pretty important to have a AssistantNews Editor meeting (with Goldrick)." Although the Nov. 17 meeting 
Associate Vice President for was not Intended to be secretive, 
Residence Life John Goldrick has Griffiths said it took on "a subversive 
agreed to meet with all the resident nature." 
assistants in early December to dis­"It ldnd oftook on a life of itself in 
cuss du Lac's rules, in particular becoming a secretive meeting. But 
those regarding parietals, according you can never have a secret meeting 
to Doug Griffiths, a resident assistant with 160 people (invited)," Griffiths 
in Alumni Hall. said. "My rector even knew about 
The meeting followed a request it." 
which came after approximately 65 Griffiths said he expects parietals 
resident assistants attended a quasi­to be the focus of the December 
secretive meeting Nov. 1 7 and dis­meeting, which will be in "a 
cussed the possibility of meeting question-and-answer type" format. 
with Goldrick, said Griffiths, who The main reason for the meeting 
helped organize last week's meeting. "is to create a better dialogue bet­
Griffiths, who telephoned ween the administration and stu­Goldrick with the request, said he dents so we could explain the rules also asked Goldrick that Vice Presi­to students," he said. dent for Student Affairs David Tyson, The resident assistants requested Assistant Vice President for Student a meeting with Goldrick because 
Affairs Sister jean Lenz and Assistant "he's our boss," Griffiths said, adding Vice President for Student Services that he believed the meeting will be Father Francis Cafarelli attend the closed to the public. 
December meeting. The upcoming meeting, however, 
Griffiths said he did not know "is nothing special," Griffiths said. whether they would attend, and "He (Goldrick) had scheduled one Tyson, Lenz, and Cafarelli were un­but other complications had come available for comment when con­up ... I think throughout the year tacted late Friday afternoon. there are meetings where (the 
Goldrick declined comment. Office of) Student Affairs speaks 
The meeting "will be an open with R.A.s." invitation to all R.A.s to speak with The Nov. 17 meeting, which was him (Goldrick) about anything," held In Nieuwland Science Hall and Griffiths said. lasted 30 minutes, was organized by 
Such a meeting was necessary be­Griffiths and several other resident cause students had questions about assistants after they realized "people parietals which their resident assis­were asldng questions in common," tants had difficulty answering, Grif­he said. fiths said. After a couple of weeks of di..'ICus­
"It was pretty obvious by the sion, Griffiths said he decided to call amount that showed up (to the Nov. a meeting among all the resident as­17 meeting) that there had been ot­sistants to ascertain whether resi­her questions in other people's sec­
see RAs, page 3 

tions," Griffiths said. "It was evident 
Hurley out of coma; support letters mailed 
By DAVID T. LEE The drive encourages students News Staff to write letters to Hurley and his family. Student Body President 
Kevin Hurley, the freshman Bill Healy said the campaign is struck by a car in September, "another way for people to keep came out of a coma last week, ac­in contact with Kevin." cording to Vice President for Stu­Healy said he expected a dent Affairs Father David Tyson. modest response to the drive. 
Tyson said that Hurley also Is "There hasn't been agreat deal of communicating primitively with letters, but anything helps. A lot people. He blinks his eyes to say of people are putting forth in­yes or no. Although he cannot dividual efforts," he said. Healy speak, he can read. He has said student government wilJ recognized his parents and continue to sponsor the drive as friends. "He understands very Hurley recuperates from his acci­basic commands," said Tyson. dent. Letters are sent to Hurley at 
the end ofeach week. 
While Kevin has shown im­"The number ofletters is not as provement, the outlook for the Important as the fact he is getting future is uncertain, according to them," Healy said. "Any ldnd of Tyson. Progress Is yet to be made letter ... really helps." on his crushed pelvis bone. "He In addition to the letter­really has a long haul ahead of writing drive, a recently-formed him," Tyson said. committee plans to sponsor a 
A letter-writing campaign dance or similar event for Hurley. sponsored by student govern­The money from this event will ment to support Hurley during go to Hurley's trust fund, said his recuperation has been going Saint Mary's studem Elisa CuUina . on for three weeks. Aspring event is also planned. 
The Observer Monday, November 25, 1985 -page 2 


In Brief
. 
The Anti-Apartheid Network met in front of 
the Administration Building Friday afternoon. Senior Pat Mullen read details oflast week's events in South Africa to the group ofmore than 45 people, reporting that 718 people had been arrested and 28 shot and killed. Graduate student John Fitzpatrick told the group, "You should not diminish your work just because you can't do everything." The meeting ended with the group cheering, "Amandala," which means "Peace," three times. After the meeting, Network organizers Mullen and Margarite Rose presented a letter from the Network to University President Father Theodore Hes­burgh. Mullen said the group -plans to meet in front of the Ad­
ministration Building every Friday at 12:15 p.m., except next Friday, when classes will not be in session. -Tbe Observer 
Renee C. Lee, a senior accounting major at the Univer­.sity ofNotre Dame, has been awarded a scholarship for the 1985-86 academic year by the American Institute ofCenified Public Accoun­tants. Renee, a native ofSpringfield, Pennsylvania, is one of 300 un­dergraduate and graduate minority students in accounting selected to receive the award. -The Observer 
TimothyMcCarthy, sheriffofPonerCounty, was the recipient of the 1985 St. Thomas More Award Sunday at the Fisher Hall Anniversary Brunch. The Award is given annually by the resi­dents of Fisher Hall to a member of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community who exemplifies the teachings of St. Thomas More. McCarthy is famous for his humorous safety messages delivered during Notre Dame games for the past 24 years. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
"Adoption: Indiana and Beyond" will be 
the topiC ofa program tonight at 7 in Saint Mary's Carroll Hall. A film about adoption will be followed by a four-member panel discussion. The adoption program is co-sponsored by Saint Mary's Sociology Club and the Association for the Rights ofChildren. It is being held in conjunction with National Adoption Week. -The Observer 
College Bowl All students interested in participating in Notre Dame's CoUege Bowl tournament are invited to attend a short organizational meeting tonight at 6:30 in Room 202 ofthe Center for Continuing Education. Information on rules and play will be available. -The Observer 
The Psychology Club will meet tonight at 7 in the LaFortune Little Theatre. There will be an election for officers followed by a talk on strategies for getting into graduate school. -The Observer 
Winter bike storage will take place on Monday and Tuesday afternoons from 3:30 to 5:30 at Gate 14 of Notre Dame Stadium. All bikes must be registered with Notre Dame Security. There is no cost for storage. -The Observer 
A Kellogg Institute Brown Bag seminar will 
be held tomorrow at noon in Room 131 in Decio Hall. K wan S. Kim, associate professor of economics, will speak on "Industrial Policy and the Problem oflndustrialization in Mexico." -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's Society for Entrepreneurship and New Ventures is sponsoring a lecture on business plans tonight at 7 in Room 30:1 of the Haggar College Center. Jim Stoll, assistant director of the Small Business Development Center in South Bend, will be the guest speaker. The public is invited. -Tbe Observer 

Weather 
Turkey hunting will be a messy 
venture today, as there is a chance of freezing rain or sleet in the morning. Rain likely in the afternoon. High near 40. Chance of precipita­tion 60 percent during the day with a 70 per­cent likelihood of rain at night. Temperatures rising into the lower or mid 40s Tuesday. Mostly cloudy and warmer with a 50 percent chance of showers. High in the upper 50s. 

Chance of rain or snow with a high near 40 on Thanksgiving Day. 

Design Editor ........................ Andi Schnuck Viewpoint Layout................ Maria Groner Design Assistant ................... Beth Conway Daily Quotes ........................... Tom Darrow Typesetters ..........~ ......................... Pat Clarke Features Copy Editor ............... Tim Adams Mark B. Johnson Features Layout ................... Ellyn Mastako Mary Ellen Hartington ND Day Editor .......................... Larry Burke Slotman ...................................... Larry Burke Typists............................... Maura McKeever News Editor .............................Scott Bearby Jodi Shellenbarger Copy Editor .................................Tripp Baltz Ad Design............................. Sarah Wolohan Sports Copy Editor ................ Martin Burns Catherine Ramsden Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Cindy Rauck-Photographer ..................... Hannes Hacker 
horst 
The Observer (I 'SPS W9 2--tOOO) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation ~riods. The Observer is published by the studentsofthe l'niversity of Notre Dame and Saini Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for HO per year ( Slll per semester) by wtiting The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana "f6';';6 
The Observer i• a member of The Associated Pnu. All reproduction rights are 
reSI"'"V~d. 
, 


Success should be recognized 
During one ofher first breaks at Notre Dame, a fresh­man found herself riding home with two seniors. The seniors, as is typical, began to reminisce about their col­lege careers. 
One, a double-major in English and engineering, spoke about her various interviews. She said she sometimes was embarassed about C's she'd received in classes she knew to be important, but hoped it wouldn't hurt her chances for employment. After all, everyone knows Notre Dame is a tough school. 
The other, a resident assistant soon to graduate high in his class in finance, spoke of his coming law school career. He also spoke ofyears he spent immersed in his books. 
The woman said she wished she'd spent more time studying instead ofpartying with her friends. Too often she'd pushed her books aside when enticed by promises offun. 
The man said just the opposite. He was certainly proud of his achievements, but he wished he'd spent more time relaxing, being 

Amy Stephan 
Managing Editor 
sharing can develop. Almost none ofus are organized or driven enough to do so. Although it may seem painfully obvious, no one can be the best at everything. 
And yet we are taught to be the best, to strive for perfection, to always aim high. We look at what we are and see that we are nowhere near the models ofperfec­tion we'd like to be. 
Thus we are forced to doom ourselves to failure ­we'll never be perfect -orredefine for ourselves what it 
means to be successful. Be­
cause we can't do everyth­
ing, we choose either 

with friends. conciously or subconsiously 
Both agreed on one point. what is really important to They didn't organize their us. time well enough; too many Later, we will question hours had been wasted. our choices. Why was that 
The freshman, as is typical night spent talking to friends ofNotre Dame students, had more important than the up­just finished an extremely coming physics exam? Or successful high school why was that English paper career. Straight A's in math, more important than a 
science, language, music friend who needed someone were no problem then. In to talk to? 
high school, not only can What the two seniors in you do everything, but you the car were saying is that can do everything well. you cannot live without 
The conversation in the regr::ts. Your college career, 

car had little meaning for this all-too-confident fresh­man. But she remembered it. 

And today, three years later, she understands what these then old and wise seniors were saying. 
Few, if any of us, are completely satisfied with our college careers to date. The student with a 3.8 GPA will curse those two B's that kept him from a 3.9. The senior now facing employers with a 2.6 GPA may regret a few ofthe parties, or the hours spent working in hall govern­ment or at The Observer. The student graduatingwith a mediocre GPA and many irreplaceable friendships and memories will sometimes overlook hisother successes and consider only his academic failures. 
The engineer or business major may wish he or she had had more time to study liberal arts. The Arts and Letters major may wish he or she had chosen a more vocationally oriented major. 
Almost everyone would like to graduate with highest honors and spend time in some sport or activity, wit­hout giving.up the friendships that only time and no matter what you achieve, 
will n"t bt: an unblemished 
success. 

Yet success, even marked by many blemishes, remains success. One of the two se::niors received a lucrative job offer from a engineering firm in California. The other will graduate from law school this year. Both are, by their own standards, successful individuals. 
Sometimes, when the workload seems impossible, our A's have slipped out ofreach and finals are looming, it is all too easy to focus on our mistakes. It is easy to sit back and lament that we cannot possibly do everything we'd like to do as well as we'd like to do it. 
It is much more difficult to decide what is really im­portant to us and do our best to achieve that. It is much more difficult to pull ourselves out of mediocre perfor­mances and continue to give life our best effort. 
Yet this is what success really consists of. Not being the best at everything, but being good at something worthwhile. 
This is the lesson a starry-eyed freshman learned from two seniors. Now, three years later, she hopes it speaks to you. 
Chinese. Vietnamese & American Food 
·Oriental Express 
Carry Out Dining Room 272-6702 e' ~e 
6329 University Commons ~0'0. 
Just West ofUniversity Park Mall ~" on State Road 23, Next to Kroger 
Mon.& Weds.10"/.off withdiningroomcoupononly 

SENIORS Learn, Grow, Give and Love 
Take a Chance ! Holy Cross Associates 
A chance ofa lifetime to be involved in Christian service and community living. 
Avondale, Arizona Colorado Springs, Colorado Hayward, California Portland, Oregon 


APPLICATION DEADLINE-JANVAIIY 31. 


The Observer Monday, November 25, 1985 -page 3 

Car bomb blast injures 34 people at U.S. military shopping center 



RAs 
continued/rom page 1 
dents in their sections had similar concerns. "It was easier to do this than to talk with each individual RA.," Griffiths added. 
He and several other resident as­sistants, who Griffiths would not 
The St. Francis Shoppe
EAT CONTACT LENS ~ 

is the place to shop 
for Christmas!
Extended Dally

$74 $49 

wear Tinted wear
$89 

Contact lena prices does not Include eye exam or care kit. Eye exam 
Discover a unique shop with handcrafted merchandise
<M:IilaOie bV Independent~ optometrist. Offergoodat par11clpatlng 
olftcea only. Some restrictions apply. 
LaSale SqUill 234·3123 McKinley Town I Country 256·1864 Plymauth Center.fltymouth 936-5012 
c~•oa•-.... 
we are proud to present. 
Including: 
•Baskets 

• 
Clowns/Dolls 

• 
Navajo Rugs 


• 
Ebony & Teak Carvings 

• 
Nativity Sets 



Unlvef1lty Parte MaN 277-8682 Elkhart Mal-Elkhart 295·2496 

U.S. 31 NORTH (behind Fatima Retreat Center) Hours: 10am-5pm, Monday-Saturday/Phone 233-7467 
1012 M11n St.·lles 684·8008 
at a second-hand car dealership near 
Frankfurt. 
He said police were looking for witnesses who may have seen the car or the man since Saturday. 
Kraus said the BMW was bought at the same dealership that sold the car used in the August bombing. 
Bill Swisher, a spokesman for the 
U.S. Army's 97th General Hospital in Frankfurt, said 34 injured people were treated at the hospital. He said 27 had been released by late evening. 
"Seven people are still here and they are listed in fair to good condi­tion," Swisher said. 
He said a 3-year-old American child was among those released but could give no further details. 
The injured included 19 U.S. military personnel, II American civilians, a West German civilian and a Filipino, Swisher said. 
"For the other two who were treated here we still don't have any personal details," he said. The !den­titles of the injured were not released. 
"Many people just walked off and took themselves to the hospital," said a U.S. Army spokesman, Major Christopher Chalko. "Most ofthe in· juries seem to have been bruises and cuts from flying glass." 


Hostage envoy hopeful after visit 
Athens on a Middle East Airways jet­liner. 
Waite said tbe street fighting in Beirut "caused some delay, but we're moving forward." 
Islamic Jihad, or Islamic Holy War, a shadowy group of Shiite fun­damentalists apparently linked to Iran, has claimed it is holding the American hostages. 
The hostages who signed the let­ter to Runcie were the Father Lawrence Jenco, 50, of joliet, Il­linois, a Roman Catholic priest; Terry Anderson, 38, of Lorain, Ohio, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press; David Jacob­sen, 54, of Huntington Beach, California, director of the American University Hospital, and Thomas Sutherland, 54, the Scottish-born dean of agriculture at the American University of Beirut. 
Islamic Jihad, which is demanding the release of I 7 people jailed for bombings in Kuwait, has said it killed a fifth American, U.S. diplomat William Buckley, 57, of Medford, Massachusetts. 
Cavanaugh Hall who attended the 
meeting, said those at the meeting "just discussed trying to arrange a meeting between either John Goldrick or Father Tyson to discuss details of the parietals rules as they're understood by the ad­ministration ... " 
"The only controversy was over whether we should call or write Goldrick," he said. "When they were thinking about writing a letter, people were saying that sounds like we're trying to make a statement. 
"But that's not what we were trying to do," Lewis said. "What we were trying to do was establish a dialogue between us and our bosses." 
Several other resident assistants declined to discuss the Nov. I 7 meeting. 
Thankstoyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
o~w.u 
day that after his secret meetings 
with the kidnappers "we're making 
progress." 
He added that he expected "to be 
back soon." 

Waite was trapped in west Beirut's Commodore Hotel with scores of journalists for three days while Druse and Shiite Moslem militias fought savage street battles around the seven-story building. 
He was sent to Beirut after four Americans kidnapped In Lebanon appealed by letter to the Rev. Robert Runde, the archbishop of Canter­bury, to work for their release. 
The Briton made a 15-minute dash to the airport in a sedan pocked with bullet holes. Following him, as gunfire crackled around the city, was a fast-moving convoy of jour· nalists and television crews. 
Waite joked with reporters at the airport and called his dash through Beirut's streets an "invigorating ex­perience." 
The Mercedes broke down with a bullet in the engine on the way back to the city after Waite took off for 
name, then distributed invitations to the rest of the R.A.s. 
Griffiths estimated there are ap­proximately 140-150 resident assis­tants. 
Because Griffiths decided on a Thursday evening to call the meeting for that Sunday, he was unable to place an announcement in The Observer, he said. 
Jay Lewis, a resident assistant In 
• Starting Jewelry 
•Ornaments 
•Glassware •Brass •Pottery 
The BMW was parked in a lot be· 
hind the shopping center that is for 

the use only of U.S. military person­
nel and their dependents. 

A witness, not identified, described the scene to the American Forces Network: 
"All of a sudden there was a real 

loud crash. I turned around to look 
and see where it came from. 
Automatically I put my hands over 
my head. I looked and there was a 

big yellow flash from between the 
two buildings." 
Chalko said those entering the shopping center must pass by a military police checkpoint five yards from the blast site. 
"A guard who was on duty at the time was one of the people injured In the blast," he said. 
Chalko was asked how much ex· plosives might have been used and he said, "We assume ir's as much as you can load" into the luggage com· partment. 
West German police and U.S. sol­diers in full battle gear immediately shut down the shopping center, located in a residential area In nor· thern Frankfurt, and sealed off the area. 
Police with guard dogs searched the area. 
•1,, 
' 
' ,, 
, 

Associated Pre88 
FRANKFURT, West Germany-A 
powerful car bomb exploded 
outside a busy U.S. military shopping 
center yesterday, lfiJUrtng 34 
people, most of them Americans, 
authorities said. 
The blast at 3:20p.m. damaged 42 
cars in the center's parking lot, shat· 
tered windows and blew a gaping 
hole in the back wall ofone shop. 
"We suspect leftist terrorists be­cause the attack was similar to the car bombing at the U.S. Air Force Base in August," said spokesman Alexander Prechtel of the Federal Prosecutor's Office in Karlsruhe. 
That Aug. 8 car-bomb attack at the 
U.S. Air Force Rhein-Main Air Base killed two Americans and injured 20 people. 
The terrorist Red Army Faction asserted responsibility for the August attack but there was no im­mediate claim of responsibility for yesterday's bombing. 
"Uke in August, Americans were the target of the attack," Prechtel said. 
Frankfurt police spokesman Kurt Kraus said the bomb was packed in a blue BMW sedan that was bought by a "Moroccan-looking man" Saturday 

anytime of the day or night. Pierre Cardin, Polo, Sophia Loren, Yves St. Laurent ...a knockout selection of designer nome frames to choose from. 
OFF 
ON FRAMES 
With purchase Of 1"\N:>el"•rl,.,,tll'l,n

UP TO 
A88odated Pre88 
ATHENS, Greece ·Anglican envoy Terry Waite, in Athens after a high­speed car ride yesterday through combat in Beirut, said he was "optimistic" about his attempts to negotiate the release of American hostages in Lebanon. 
Waite, the archbishop of Canter­bury's envoy, was due to leave for New York early today to meet U.S. officials on his efforts to free the hostages. His one-man mercy mis­sion was stalled In the Lebanese capital because of fighting between rival Moslem bctions. 
"I'm optimistic but it takes time. At least the contacts hue been made and the kidnappers identified," Waite said at Athens airport. 
He arranged to spend the night In Athens and arrive in New York today aboard TWA flight 841 after a stop in Rome. He is expected to land at New York'sJFK airport at 2:20p.m. EST. 
The Anglican troubleshooter, a bulletproof vest under his tan safari shirt, told reporters at Beirut yester­
r 
r 
.1'




/ ~i~~~_()__i_Il___t_______________M_o_nd-~,_N_ove_m_be-r2-5,_19-85
__p_age-4 
Raises questions about Hoffman's remarks at ND 
As the excitement dies down and as the crowds disperse, there are seeds of liberalism remaining after Abbie Hoffman's speech. While he was very entertaining, his facts and opinions appeared to this confused individual to be somewhat tainted. I say that I am confused to assure everyone that I ~m no ex­pert on international atfalrs, but I do1ind that subject immensely intriguing. It is my purpose here not to assault Hoffman's charac­ter but to raise a few questions which I did not get to ask after his speech. 
Brendan Daniels guest column 

It seems to me Hoffman supports im­mediate divestiture of all investments of the University from all corporations in South Africa. This would send a message to the government ofthat nation that we are actively engaged in seeking an end to their racist policies. While a message may be sent, nobody in Botha's government will receive it. 
As long as there is no international agree­ment to divest, the actions of one nation are going to be minimized; other nations are likely to pick up our investments at greatly reduced costs. Roughly 70 institutions across the United States have divested, but nobody has told whether or not these Investments have been taken up by other institutions or by other governments. Nor has anyone said, "Why not?" I cannot say for I do not know. 
Another thing I cannot say is that I know the answers to the problems with U.S. foreign policy in Latin America. Since Hoffman con­centrated on the Nicaraguan situation, so shall 

I. Arguing about the correctness or about the morality of the position taken by the U.S. government immediately after the Sandinistas overthrew Somoza in the extremely popular 1979 revolution is a moot argument; the situa­tion six years ago is unchangeable. 
The fact remains that governments of the United States and of Nicaragua are unfriendly toward each other and that Nicaragua has received much aid from the Soviet Union. 
Ifwe were to pull out all aid from the Con­tras, they probably would be defeated quickly, the Sandinistas would probably restore a bit of order as soon as possible, and the Soviets would want to collect the returns of their in­vestments in Ortega's government in the form ofmilitary bases and other favors -probably. 
Hoffman said that night that the United States didn't need to be interfering in Nicaragua. Well, the way I see it-at best, un­clear; at worst, wrong -in the interests of na­tional security, we do need to prevent the Soviets from gaining another military foothold to our south which could threaten the Panama Canal and Caribbean trade routes. 
Hoffman also mentioned that the revolu­tionary government still is popular, but he failed to mention that many of the revolutionaries feel that Ortega and Co. have betrayed the movement and these people have joined the Contras. They are not, as Hof­fman implied, solely the remnants of the Somoza regime. Also, the Catholic Church in Nicaragua Is separating itself from the govern­
ment because of the harsh suspension of 



The final word given on 'battle of the sexes' at ND 
"And as those lnsb guys go leering by, We see their eyes are fixed on female tbigb. 
So goes the dirge about the men of Notre Dame who dare to endanger humanity, even as we speak, by their unbounded admiration of the female form. 
Pete Pranica 
in love again 
Following in the choppy wake left by any 
number of letters to the editor, there are a 
couple ofpoints which need to be made in the 
name of honor, humanity, equality and dig­
nity. 
Let's go after this superiority/inferiority myth. Does anyone wish it to be knowable? And when you have the answer, what do you do with it? 
One woman put forth the notion that since women had the higher grade point, they were the superior sex on campus. Her reasoning speaks for itself. My grade point will not get me a job, it will not pay for my car, nor will it impress a young woman into ecstasy. In all probability, I will have to look in the back of my filing cabinet to find out what It was and will use it as a joke at my five year reunion. It has put me on Dean Loux's list exactly twice in the previous three years, no more, no less. 
Anyway, the whole brouhaha about super­
iority was touched off by the comment "last 
bastion of male supremacy." I suspect the let­
ter writers had their collective tongues 
net~tled in their collective cheeks. The male 
Doonesbury 
HI, THI~f9MA/?J<~, 8m41lCA~ING /JVP FRIJ'rt LAntl­'f6TTC. mf?K. AJ..I._ 7H1911E&K.,U£iL 
j et. TALI<JNG 70 THe HOMB/.tSS ON ~ A 5Pf3CJAJ.-'iiDVC'AJJB?''U~ 
: HOirlt COMPANION.#'
-
(; l£l Iii IE >Trr.;;-,..~_....::~n 
supremacy at Notre Dame Is engendered (pun intended) simply because the biggest of the big shots are men, for example, Father Hes­burgh, Fa\her Tyson, and Digger Phelps. 
Speaking for myself, I do not feel threatened by women. In fact, one ofmy best high school friends was a girl from another school. We met through academic debate, which to say the least, is a competitive endeavor. We got along famously, despite the fact that in head to head competition, she blasted me out of the room and came within one ballot of winnning the national championship. I can truthfully say that her success never bothered me a bit, and in fact, I really enjoyed seeing one of my friends doing well. · 
Okay, so the women have the better grade point on campus. But that has about as much to do with which is the superior sex as the bench press weights for the football team. Let's state this succinctly, so no one can miss it. 
Superior sex, Notre Dame: NONE. 
That done, we can now move on to the topic of exploitation. In all seriousness, it is a problem, but the issues raised in P.O. Box Q have set the cause back at least a decade. The fact of the matter is that a USC song girl ap­peared in The Observer with an accompany­ing caption which made reference to the fact that the men on campus were happy that she was there. 
Was The Observer being sexist? Let's face reality, the men were happy to see an at­tractive woman, and always are happy to see one. It's part ofthis great conspiracy. Men are supposed to be attracted to women. Indeed, The Observer reported the facts reliably, 
8lJT FIRST, 5C1t1e fJACJ<.­6Ra/N/J. 7H/5/A/IN'TfR, 7Hc NUf18fR CFHr»tt­L$5 H~ MAY~R­
R495 7HAT ReAOiW 
aJRING7Ht 

human freedoms in many areas -a suspension which Hoffman tried to justify. 
In both Nicaragua and South Africa, we are involved in bringing about a change in government, and in both cases, Hoffman is opposed to the policy ofthe United States. His message seemed to be clear that night: "Be heard, be rude, swear ifyou must to get some attention because you cannot use the system of the 'King's Court' nor can you use the 'King's English' to communicate." 
It seems that he feels rational, intelligent discussions are useless and violen~e is the 
answer. One last question Hoffman, ifI may. If you are so opposed to the deplorable condi­tions of poverty in these nations, where do you get the nerve to put a SI00 bill on the podium to help defray the costs of stolen sheets to be used In the anti-apartheid "rally" at the Notre Dame/Ole Miss. football game? From where I was, it seemed like your roll of bills was rather thick, but I cannot say for sure. 
Brendan Daniels is a junior government major at Notre Dame. 

sexist or otherwise. To call this explmtauon is to stretch the definition beyond recognition. 
Recall what I just said about men being at­tracted to women. Perhaps that should be turned around. Aren't women attracted to men? Sure they are, which begs the question of their admiration of the male form. Guys don't notice this much, but football players run around in tight, form fitting pants which give females a good look at some posterior and thigh muscles. 
'Fess up girls, you've been looking, haven't you? Can you truthfully say that all you look for is the ball? How many times has it been said at a party, "Omigod, I saw him at the football game! Whatta hunk!" I have run across, in my three years plus on this fonress of solitude, women who will date only football players. That in and ofitselfis all right; football players don't have a corner on the looks or nice guy market, but they aren't total jerks, either. But there are women who freely admit that they will only date football players simply because they're football players. I submit that those women are just as bad as a man who says he wants to date only cheerleaders or song gtl1s. 
Look, we all appreciate the assets of the op­
posite sex. God wanted it that way. The sexes 
are separate, but equal. There are men who 
are smarter than I am and there are women 
who are smarter than I am. Who cares? We're 
all part ofthe human race, not to mention the 
Notre Dame community. Why divide accord­
ing to sex, GPA, good looks or money? 
Women have their charms and men have theirs. The twain perhaps never shall meet, but they're pretty good when they get toget­her. 
Garry Trudeau 
Alta, OOP5.~Y.I

HA,HA, 
THAT THOI.J6HT YOU/A/eRe
HAJIA! 
/'3N'T fX)!N6 AN OP&N­
RJNNY. lNG MON0/..()(3{£.

YUKl 
\ 
"' 

So let it end here, this "battle of the sexes." In fact, it is not a battle at all unless blown up to these proportions by unthinking minds. 
Pete Pranica is a senior American studies major at Notre Dame and a regular VIew­point columnist. 
Viewpoint Policy 

• 
All letters to the editor submitted to The Observer become the property of The Observer. Letters must be typed, no longer than 250 words and signed by the author. The Observer reserves the right to edit all material received. 

• 
Commentaries in The Observer do not necessarily reflect the opinions of The Observer. 

• 
Guest columns may not respond directly to previous commentaries ap­pearing in The Observer and may not exceed 700 words. 

• 
The Observer encourages commen­taries from all members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 


Quote of the day 

"When will the world learn that a million men 
are  of  no  importance  
compared  with  one  
Man~'  

• Henry David Thoreau 
(1817-1869) Letter to Emerson,june 8, 1843 
Monday, November 25, 1985-page 5 
ViewP-oint 




P.O. BoxQ 
Reacts to commentary on ND maternity policy 
Dear Editor: 
In response to the article written by Joann 
DdlaNeva and Thoma.~ Flint regarding the 
shortcomings of Notre Dame's maternity 
policy, I quote directly from the Notre Dame 
handbook: 
"Leave of absence is also granted to mem­
bers for reason ofchildbearing, incapacitating 
sickness, or serious disability. The University 
obligates itself to pay a member's salary for a 
period ofsix months. During this period medi­
cal reports are to be submitted to the Provost 
at two-month intervals. The University 
reserves the right to discontinue payments 
after the six-month period. 
Leave of absence officially granted by the 
llnlverslty with or without renumeratlon is 
counted as service for purpose of tenure and 
promotion unless otherwise expressly stip­
ulated." 
Peggy Weissert-Rengel Memorial Library 

Coffey's Inside column CQnfuses the whole issue 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing in regard to Catherine Cof­fey's article on rape at Notre Dame. We feel the article is totally inappropriate and biased. Although It does depict a case of rape, It does not depict a case ofdate rape. 
Date rape occurs when a male takes 
advantage of a female In a date situation, not 
an acquaintance the victim "hardly knew" 
luring an unsuspecting girl into his car. While 
it Is possible that "rape can happen anywhere, 
even here at Notre Dame," here are the facts. 
There has been one rape, not date rape, 
reported here in the last 1 0 years. Going by 
Coffey's statistics, Women's Day, "forty-seven 
percent of all rapes go unreported," this 
means there actually have been two rapes 
committed at Notre Dame In the past decade. 
We agree two rape cases are two too many, but this should not cause the women here to develop a sense ofinsecurity. We agree some precautions should be taken, but those of­fered by Coffey will not alleviate the situation. Again her confusion between rape and date rape is apparent. 
We also wish to question Coffey's choice of sources. We do not believe accurate and un­biased Information on a topic such as rape can be found using only one source, Women's Day. A topic of this importance should be researched thoroughly before a complete ar­ticle can be written. 
As a result of Coffey's generalizations and misuse offacts, her article appears to be a per­sonal vendetta rather than an objective look at a very serious subject. 
johnM.Shea Kevin R. McCloskey john A. Orecchio David M.jones Stephen]. Antinelli ZahmHall 

Key days remembered for mark on generation 
There seems to be certain events in one's lifetime that are particularly noteworthy. So much so that we can remember exactly where we were at the time of the event, what we were feeling and what was running through our minds. 
Daniel C. DeCarlo guest column 
On the personal level, maybe this occurred 
when a certain loved one passed away. 
Whatever the occasion, these experiences 
truly pa.~ the test of time; we never forget. As 
a nation, there have been several such occa­
sions down through the generations. Our 
parents' generation surely can tell us were it 
was at the time the news of President Ken­
nedy's assasination was aired. My 
grandparents hardly can forget the details of 
their feelings at the news of Pearl Harbor or 
the bombings at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. 
As a generation, we have grown up with the nuclear age. Big bombs are as real to us as the Cubs being 23 games out by the all-star break. We have never known the world to be any 
other way. In fact, to many of us, a world free of the threat of nuclear war has never entered our minds, which made the summit in Geneva usch a momentous occasion whether we realized it or not. 
In examining my own lifetime, I can think of only one event which could stimulate nationwide "Yeaa, I was at my friend Billy's and ... " type of talk. The oddity ofit allis that the event was by no means Important. This trivial event willstick In most ofour minds as a joyous, proud moment. The event was the winning of the gold medal by The United States t 980 Olympic Hockey Team In Lake Placid, New York. The victory over The Soviets was an Incredible task by an even more Incredible set ofyoung men. Americans everywhere could not help bur love them. On 
that chilly night in February, Americns across 
the country sat in their living rooms with tears 
in their eyes whispering the words ofThe Na­
tional Anthem along with Jim Craig and Herb 
Brooks. 
As great a thrill as the hockey team gave us, it does not seem appropriate the victory should symbolize our generation. At best, the victory was an outstanding effort, a lesson in determination. It was not something that marked a change in the course of history. It was not, as many would like to think, a victory ofgood over evil. We did not prove to the rest of the world that the Soviets were the devll's handyman and that we are better than those dogs. 
I hoped this would all change and the two leaders who met in Geneva would be able to put their public relation machines aside and concentrate on givingour generation agift we have never received before, a world free of atomic fear. 
Most of us did not pay too much attention to the summit. Many feel it was just more use­l~ss talk. The odds of getting any-thing ac­complished amidst the propaganda war were even greater than the odds those twenty dreamy-eyed kids faced; however, a major breakthrough at the talks would have given us all something to remember. 
I hope my kid, unlike me, only will know a world free of a Cold War. Then, I can tell him what was running through my mind when Reagan announced the good news of the his­toric of a nuclear-free world and when Jim Craig clutched the American flag like a baby blanket. Only President Ronald Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev can give us another event to mark our generation. Maybe we could even get AI Michaels to make a trip to Geneva and break the news when this im­possible dream comes true. Oh say can you see ... (sniff, sniff). 
Daniel C. DeCarlo is a sophomore in the College ofArts andLetters atNotre Dame. 

ND Thanksgiving noted as special by Hesburgh 
DearNotre Dame men and women: 
One thing I learned from my mother, long ago, was to say "Thank you" for favors received. I've tried to practice that lesson ever since, but must admit that I really don't say thanks often enough to all the people to whom I am indebted for so much. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh guest column 
Thanksgiving Day is an opportunity for all of us to catch up on ourgratitude. We do well to begin with God, thanking Him for life, present and eternal, for home and family, for America and freedom, for so many unearned and often neglected graces, for peace thus far, despite ever-impending nuclear dissaster. 
And then thanks to all those people who give us so much, mom and dad, teachers through all the long years of our education, friends who put up with our foibles and love us none the less, all the people we take so much for grante.d: farmers and cooks and dish­washers, maids and janitors, laundry workers and groundskeepers. The list gets longer: rec­tors and RAs, chaplains, librarians and nurses, 
secrectarles, coaches, guards, mailmen and bus drivers. They all deserve a word of thanks and so seldom get one. 
I would like, here and now, to thank all of this community for all that each one of you does to make this a special place. And thanks especially to Notre Dame, Our Lady, for watching over each one ofus as Her own. 
Happy Thanksgiving. 
Ever devotedly In Notre Dame, 
Father Ted Hesburgb 


Church must eliminate its Vatican II 'reforms' 
The Catholic Church has, until 1962, been one of the most traditional bodies the world has known. Many parts of the Mass date back to the time ofChrist and some of the readings date all the way back to the time ofMoses. The church has been proud ofthese traditions and followed them to the letter. Then came the Second Vatican Council. This Church council tried to follow the lead ofthe rest ofthe world and depart from the ways of the past and sub­stitute them with the idea that whatever works is right. 
Rich Coglianese the way we were 
It was this council that destroyed the Ideaof the Latin Mass. It changed that ageless formula in the false hope that a Mass in the venacular would bring more people to Church. Church attendance, however, was higher in the t 950's (while the Mass was still In Latin) than it is today. This is an absurd notion that if the 
people do not understand what is being said they will not go. As a priest once told me, "If somebody really wants to go to Mass, he will go if the Mass is said in English, Latin, Swahili, or any other language." The Latin Mass was one of the most beautiful Church traditions that Vatican II destroyed. 
Another tradition that was destroyed by Vatican II was a set order ofauthority. Priests followed the orders ofthe bishop, and the bis­hop followed the orders of the Pope. The laymen knew exactly where the church stood on a particular issue without any doubt. Vatican II has done away with the absolute authority of the Pope, as is clearly evident today. 
More and more priests are allowing alter­girls, something that the Pope has forbidden, to serve Mass, Instead ofalterboys. When told by the Pope and their particular bishop that this practice Is wrong, the priests claim they 
are really following the will of God since It Is 
God's will that men and women Should be 
equal. 
These priests are also doing away· with the 
tradition that women are not allowed to serve 
In that position since that has been revealed to 
us In sacred scripture-tradition. Alterboy Is 
supposed to be the first step toward the pries­
thood that a young boy can take. Since Jesus 
himself set It up that no woman Is eligible to 
become a priest, we cannot change that fact. I 
would like to ask all ofthe feminists out there 
who think that It is fine to ordain women, 
when Christ commissioned his apostles Into ,the priesthood, how many women did he commission? Well, if there were I I people commissioned and they were all men, I guess that the answer Is zero. Christ set the Church up this way for a reason. Neither I nor anyone else understands why Christ did this, but He did. We cannot change it. 
Vatican II has succeeded In destroying these great traditions. Pope John Paul II has called for an "extraordinary synod" to meet In Rome in late November to reassess the changes Vatican II has made and to prepare the Church as it enters Its third millennium. We can only hope this synod will see the mistakes of Vatican II and reverse the dan­gerus momentum. 
If Pope John Paul II is able to reverse the dangers of Vatican II, the Church will once again be able to be proud of Its traditions and use them to guide It through another millen­nium. On the other hand, if the synod falls to see the mistakes ofVatican II, the Church will continue farther away from the path that Christ has dug and the Church's third millen­nium will present problems for pastors and parishioners alike. 
Remember: Don't fix something that ain't broke. 
Rich Coglianese is in the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame. 

Viewpoint Department 
P.O.BoxQ Notre Dame, IN '46556 
,1 
,
,
, 
1 
j 
1
,
, 
,1 ,1 
, 
1 
,1 
,

,
, 
1

,
, 
1 
1, i 
,1 
,1 
1 
1
,
.,
,
,
,
.,
, 
,1 
.,
, 
, 
, 
., 
1 
1 1 
l 



Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Satah E. Hamilton Business Manager .. ... Dav1d Stephenllch
P 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller .... ... William J. H1ghducheck 
News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager .. ... J1m HaganThe Observer 1s the ~ndependent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager .. .. Mark B. Johnson Notre Dame duLac and Sa~nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager .... .. John A. Mennell adminiStration of e1ther ~nstJtubon. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healy ~ taries. leners and the lnstde Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
i,

campus. through leners. IS encouraged. Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 1 1 
1 


I, 
r 
r 
~ 




Accent
r Monday, November 25, 1985-page 6 

r 
r r 
r 
BCAC aims for black unity at Notre Dame 
t 
example, is the only black in Walsh they feel BCAC events are helpful · events for the year. In October it dent Father Theodore Hesburgh. MARYJACOBY Hall. for the well-being ofNotre Dame's sponsored the Black and White Stag The group is writing a committee assistantfeatures editor "It's hard enough trying to get black students. "Most ofus Night semi-formal in Stepan Center. report, with suggestions and 
T 
adjusted to college life as a fresh-probably came from high schools The BCAC bandied the publicity for criticisms, which will appear an-hings had hit a low point for the 
man," Boykin said, "but when you with a pretty high percentage of the Student Activities Board-nually with the conference. 
Black Cultural Arts Center last find out you're the only black stu-black students," Boykin said, em-sponsoredjoseph Holmes Dance spring because the only upperclas-dent in your dorm, it can be in-phasizing the alienation black stu-Theater Company, which per­sman elected to office decided to ...... timidating." dents can feel in suddenly being formed Nov. 13 in Washington Hall. Through these activities, BCAC withdraw from the University. "The This isolation creates a lack of . thrust into an almost exclusively In addition, the first Black Alumni members say they hope to spark a situation had gotten so bad that the unity among black students, which white environment. "The situaton Conference took place last month renewed interest in the club and BCAC was left with two freshmen in results in hard times for the BCAC. at Notre Dame is not realistic," she for the purpose ofexamining the· draw attention to the situation of charge," said Lisa Boykin, co­"The BCAC was founded to expose said. black issue at Notre Dame. Thirty the black student on campus. And president. the campus to black culture and Except for the administration's black alumni spent a weekend on with the determined leadership of 
Thus Boykin and fellow sop­arts," said member Dennis Tillman, failure to recruit more black stu-campus meeting with students, the Boykin and Rodgers, the prospectshomore Marty Rodgers became "but since then it had become (an dents, Boykin and Rodgers said they administration and University Presi-seem good.co-leaders of the campus' only organization) to serve social think the BCAC's apathy problem is organization for black students last needs." Tillman noted that this mostly internal. Member Sonia .year, in the midst ofwhat they saw added responsibility has created LeCount stressed that most black as a serious morale problem among unforeseen pressure on the BCAC students have close friendships the Notre Dame black community. to provide a social life for black with whites on campus. But one 
This year, Boykin and Rodgers students on campus. problem, with which BCAC mem­say they hope to halt the increasing In response to this need, the bers seem to agree, is that white apathy among black students BCAC has sponsored frequent students don't realize there is a toward the BCAC by revitalizing the parties in its LaFortune offices, problem. organization with new plans and which, Rodgers stressed, are open But no one has given up just yet. events, though the main problem to white students as well. "At first "I saw new hope (this year) with a and cause of much frustration-the white students are intimidated (by possiblity ofchange and unity," 
r relatively small percentage ofblack BCAC parties)," Rodgers said, "but LeCount said. 
r 
students at Notre Dame -remains they always end up having fun." To maintain this new feeling of 
r
, 
unsolved. Both Rodgers and Boykin said unity, the BCAC has planned many "There's little unity in the black 
r
, .community," said Boykin. "As a recruit, you see N.D. at its peak
r
, during An Tostal. When you find ,r out it's not going to be like you 
expected, you become disillu­r sioned, resentful and withdraw into r yourself. The majority ofblack r students feel like they just want to
, 
get their degrees and graduate. This 
r 
creates a lot ofbitterness." 
r 
How is the University any more 
r 
disillusioning for blacks than for
r 
whites? Blacks comprise only 2.5
r 
percent of the total student body at
r 
Notre Dame; there are less than 200 
~ black undergraduates. The initial problem ofhaving so few black students is compounded by the relative isolation ofblacks from each other on campus. Boykin, for 

The superpowers gettin' super silly in Geneva 
Ron: Oh relax Mikhail. You guys Mikhail, and we wish you would pranked us on the emergency ~ 
owe me one anyway for not stop invading these itty-bitty hotline?
KrlsMurphy
r showing up at the Olympics. countries and terrorizing innocent Gorbo: Yeah, I was sitting there
, 
Gorbo: Hal That was great. We terrorists and stuff. bending paperclips and looking at r r Altered would have gotten more medals Gorbo: Yeah, I don't like that stuff, that stupid red phone and I thought, anyway. but the old guys get such a kick out "Ha, wouldn't it be funny to call up
,r 
I 
Ron: Would not. ofit. I mean they really got creamed Ron and yell 'unilateral disarma­woke up early for my 8 a.m. class disarmament also believe in the Gorbo: Would so. in World War II, so they like to see ment' really loud and then hang
r 
today (a first) so I had time to Easter Bunny) Ron: Would not. somebody else get blown up for a up?"
r 
read the Chicago Tribune over Reporters crowd around the Gorbo: Would so. breakfast. I should have used the door ofthe room where President Ron: Ah forget it. Ifyou don't shut our country an overbearing and that means happy hour. 
r change. They worked hard to make Ron: You nut! Hey, it's almost five 
r
, 
paper to cover up my breakfast Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev will up, we'll cut offall your grain. totalitarian state and they need to Gorbo: Good, no more of this cheapr because the eggs were cold and the discuss the future ofall our animal Gorbo: OK, OK. But Ron, you have relax once in a while. beer. r oatmeal was full oflittle black friends, the great outdoors, all the to try this world domination stuff. Ron: That's just not good enough,
, 
pebbles pretending to be raisins. pretty flowers, and the entire The women love it. Mikhail. Stop blowing things up! 
Ron: Wait a minute, what are wer This however, is not the point. human race. After a great deal of Ron: Look Mikhail, this is where Gorbo: Only ifyou stop sending gonna do about this nuclear stuff?
r The issue here is the Trib's headline shouting and shoving, Reagan and ideologies clash. America isn't Eltonjohn to play in Russia.jeez, I Gorbo: Can you keep a secret? 
r 
on page one: "SECRET TALKS AT Gorbachev get inside the room and about world domination. It's about hate that guy. Ifl hear "Goodbye
r Ron: Sure, Mikhail. 
, 
THE SUMMIT; TWO LEADERS the noise of the outside world baseball, Lee Iacocca, and MTV. Yellow Brick Road" one more time, Gorbo: Ron, we don't even have any 
, HUDDLE PRIVATELY, OK NEWS subsides .... Gorbo: Can I quote you on that? I'm going to scream. 
nuclear weapons!

BLACKOUT." Wait a minute here, Ron: Heh-heh, reporters. God, Ron: We have a news blackout, Ron: The nerve! I'll bet Stalin was Ron: Are you kidding? Ohmigod! 
hold the phone. Ronnie and Mikhail Mikhail, it's been so long. remember? easier to deal with than you are. 
~ That is so weird. 
r get together to rap and we don't get Gorbo: Yes, yes. Too long.l didn't Gorbo: I keep forgetting. What a Gorbo: Oh Ron, let's not fight. 
Gorbo: Don't tell the reporters, OK? 
to hear about it? Aren't we all in­even get a Christmas card from you. drag. Remember all the good times? 
Ron: Are you kidding? I couldn't dovolved here? Not just the people of Ron: You make me feel so small, Ron: We're happy the way we are, Ron: You mean like that time you that. What are superpowers for?
America but also our Russian brot­Mikhail. It's Nancy's fault. She can hers ( uh, I mean our good friends be so lax about the important the Russians)? Ifwe're all going to things. Enough of this wimpy small 
o ',o-a .(I~ 
get blown up, they probably should talk, though. Sit down, kick off those 
'o, ::.,{,. o-_.'o ­tell us beforehand. Would you wing-tips, and have a beer. I got 1 invite people to a party ten minutes some Meister Brau shipped in from before it began? Ofcouse not. That D.C. would be very rude. Gorbo: You always did like cheap Maybe they're not talking about beer, Ron. It surprises me greatly nuclear arms. Ifthey were, they that you have such a big deficit probably would tell us, right? So when you drink such cheap beer. what are they talking about? I'll bet Ron: Get outta here, you animal. it's the same stuff that all guys talk jeez, remember Chernenko's about. You know, sports and stuff. It funeral? We were so wasted! I probably sounds a lot like this: remember winking at your wife and THE SCENE: The beautiful Fleur Nancy saw me. She was so steamed. D'Eau mansion on Lake Geneva Gorbo: Ron, you didn't go to Cher­THE TIME: 1:15 p.m. (Still a long nenko's funeral! You sent Bush time until happy hour) instead, remember? And if I ever _,gro_ ­THE PURPOSE: Apparently none catch you winking at my wife, I'll whatsoever (People who believe in nuke San Diego. 


• 
--~---------------------------------------~--­
The Observer Monday, November 25, 1985-page 7 
1•
receiver ~hort of the first-down I would say he was the foundation marker on .1 fourth down play. upon which we built our team."

Alumni 
The fourth quarter was marked by As for Alumni, John Puetz thought continuedfrom page more strong defense. After one first that the teams leaders had to be Paul


Sports Briefs 
down, the Flanner defense, lead by Laughlin and Joe Puetz. Jim Gero 

SMC Turkey-Trot will take place today at Angela Ath­letic Facility at 4:30 p.m. Races will include a 3-mile run, a '5-mile run, and a 1 1/2-mlle walk. The hall with the greatest percentage of participation will receive a trophy. -The Obseroer 
The NO I SMC ski teatn will hold a meeting tonight between 6:30 · 7:30 p.m. in the Lafortune Uttle Theater. Fund-raising materials will be distributed and all members should attend. For more information call Tony Jordan at 283-4057.-The Obseroer 
The NO Weightand Fitness Club will spon­sor a bench press competition on Sunday, Dec. 8 at a time and loca­tion to be announced. Sign-ups are being taken in the third floor weight room of the Rockne Memorial Building, and any member of the ND/SMC community Is welcome. For more information call Pat Browne at 283·2056. · The Obseroer 
NVA one-on-one basketball tournament registrations must be turned in by Wednesday to the NVA office in the ACC. The doublc:-elimination competitions will be held Monday, Dec. 2 at 7 p.m. on the ACC Arena floor. Separate contests will be held for men under and over six feet tall and for women. · The Obser­ller 
NVA All-nighter T-shirts are still available at a cost of S5 at the NVA office in the ACC. Shirts can be picked up from H a.m. to '5 p.m., Monday through Friday. ·The Obseroer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of Lafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submittin~ it. ·The Obsen1er 
"In the first half we beat our­
selves," said Puetz. "We were allow­
ing them to gain too much yardage. 
If we want to win, we had to 
overcome penalties and big plays on 
the part ofFianner's offense." 
"We drove on them all throug­
hout the first half," said Milkovich. 
"We had many opportunities that 
we did not capitalize on such as the 
blocked field goal." 
The second half belonged to the Dogs, both offensively and defensively. On their opening drive, the Dogs drove down the field and scored the only touchdown of the day. The main part ofthe drive con­sisted ofScheurmann's two passes to Bill Kelly. The first pass covered 40­yards to set up the bigger one two plays later when Kelly hauled in a pass, spun around one man, and scored the only touchdown. The point-after attempt was blocked by 
John Haydin making the score 6-0. 
Following this impressive first drive, the Alumni defense stopped the Flanner offense in just three plays withJoe Puetz picking up a key sack. Following the punt by Frank Malone, the Alumni offense tried to get things started again only to be halted by the strong play ofJim Kelly and Greg Smith. 
Orrthe next Flanner possession, it tried tt, 1-.cep control by keeping the ball on the ~round, but again was forced t·> giH' the ball to Alumni when Gibbs tackled a Flanner Bob Diloreto, stopped the Alumni offense forcing a punt. 

The Alumni defense then rose to the occasion. On lilanner's first play a strong front lead by Matt Ror., Bill Smith, and Joe Puetz stopped Kt:lly after only ont· \'ard. After a holding penalty put the ball on the Q-vard line, Roy burst through the line of scrimmage and chased Bridgeman into the end ;.one, tacl..ling him for a safety. This was the final scoring as Flanner's final drive was stymied by an inteception by Gibbs. The game ended as Alumni had posted an 8-0 victory. 
Roy thought that the quickness of Flanner's quarterback would ; prevent him from getting the safety. 
"I didn't think that I was going to be able to get him," said Roy. "He is very quick. After I fought off the Ini­tial block no one picked me up. He tried to get rid of the ball, but I was there to tackle him." 
Joe Milkovich thought that Alumni had no stand outs, but the team played together which helped them to victory. He also felt that a few Flanner players should receive recognition for their play. 
"No player really stood out for Alumni. They played as a team and put forth a 100 percent effort," said Milkovich. "As for our play, Tom Sul­livan, Jim Kelly, Frank Malone, and Bob Diloreto played extremely well. Tom Sullivan was the glue to our team. He brouwu the team together. 
also commented that other players deserved credit for the victory. 
"Paul was most likely the most dedicated Dog player," said Puetz. "He was always willing to play and succeed. He was the strength ofour team. He guided us to where we are today.' 
"Joe, on tiv: other hand, was our emotional leader," continued Puetz. "He knew we were capable of win­ning. He was always on the field yel­ling, screaming, doing anything to help boost the morale of the team. These two held the team together." 
"The play of Joe Dearie, Jim Goebel, Tim Smith, and Bod Debroux really inspired the team," added Gcro. "Tim Smith played both ways giving everything he had. In ad· dition to these players, I feel the play 
of Ned Gaffney really helped us im· prove the line. All in all, the win must be considered a team effort." 
The fan support at the game really showed the spirit of both halls. The Alumni fans formed a tunnel for the team, barked out vicious Dog calls, and cheered the team to victory. Gibbs felt that this support capped a great season. 
•"Today's effort was a culmination of a great season," said Gibbs. "Fan participation played a big part in our victory. The Dog fans literally pushed us to victory with their cheering. The team appreciates it very much." 
North Carolina blows away UCLA 
Although the Tar Heels raced
Asaociatcd Preu away to a triumph in their season CHAPEL Hill, N.C. -Brad Daug­opener, it was the Bruins who held herty hit all 13 of his field goal at­the upper hand in the first 10 tempts and collected a career-high minutes. On Corey Gaines' baseline 31 points last night as second­jumper at the 9:42 mark, UCLA took ranked North Carolina pulled away its biggest lead at 24-16. from UCLA for a 107·70 college bas­UCLA had relied on perimeter ketball victory. shooting to overcome North 
Carolina's height, but the Tar Heels stormed back. 
Daugherty tossed in a short jumper at 6:44 to tie the score at 28, then Kenny Smith's corner jumper with 6: 13 left before halftime gave North Carolina its first lead at 30-28. 
The Tar Heels led 44-38 at halftime. 
Tht• Ohsar·•·r :\otrt· Damt· otlin·. i<ll'Ainl on rht· rhird hoor of l.aForrunt· ~tuc.knt Ct·nt.-r. dllt'pls dasMikd adncrlr>~nl( from 'J A.m. umil-f p.m.. Monda) 
throul(h hida\ 7'ht• ( Jhst'T'I'<'r Saint .\I an·, offin·. lot·att·d on tht· thrrd lloor of llaggar Colleg<e Ctcnter. an:epts dassifieds from I.Z::\0 p.m. until :\p.m.. Mon· da\' though Fnda\ lkadline for nt·xt·d,l\ dassifieds is .~ p.m..4.11 dassifitcds must htc prepard. either in person or h\· marl Charge is I 0 t·enls pt"r fi\·e t·harac·



Classifieds 
ler-·r d"'· 
LOST·ND ROUND METAL KEYCHAIN REGINA HALL RAFFLE Surpriee UN Connor·! )uat -.tto !hank· AND FOUR KEYS-SOMEWHERE IN EN· For new raquelbel equlprnen1 Wllaon ra­you again for the card and coold•. JimNOTICES GINEERING BLDG. CALL ANNE 277· quet Wllaon tennia ball Volt bag Ek!elon and I reilly munched on 1ha cool0118. SM 7586. glove $10CI value $1.00 .:11 ticl<el or 6 
~~....-..?-.~..-~~--~~--........! ~~__TI_CK_E_TS~ you In January. Love, Andy from UNH 
.......~-........~ 
for $5.00 Call Jennller 284-40112 or MaryFor next eemeater lurniahed houee 5
LOST AT SMC ·GOLD WOMEN'S 1985 284-4081 
TYPING AVAILABlE bedrooml good area 1 mile north of N.D. 
HIGH SCHOOL CLASS RING ON . ATIENTION SOPHOMORESIII
Wanted: T-Foolllell Uu ................................................................ 
287-4082 277-3604
11/8185 • GARNET STONE • INITIALS Why: 'don't know o-Schnookuma; Looking forwwd to Ski Trip deadline hM been extended until CAS INSIDE • REWARD CALL CHERYL Who: Joeet 2113-111:27 Thanklgiving dinner, but don'lexpect me Tu-y! Bnng your $20 depoail 10 tho 
Nice 1urniehed homea for nexrachool y-
AT 284-5091 to eetlha atulling. Love, me CWu of '88 office ~n 6 and 10 pmTYPING CALL CHill 2M-Ift7 
277-3604 

One way ticket to BUFFALO, 11/28 7am on Monday or Tu-yl 
......................................... 
from S. Bend, $30 b/o 288-5334 or 272· ................................................. 
TYPING LOST IN MAOELEVA • A PURPLE Nice eemi-furniahed houae in good neigh­
2795. H8PPY Turkey Dey Marl< G. Rappel Love,
HUNGRY? Call YELLOW SUBMARINEFOLDER CONTAINING ALL MY borhood lor 3-255-3684.
277-«141 
Mom 

MANAGEMENT ASSIGNMENTS IN· at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra !5pm-12am eLUDING FINAL EXAMIIII IF FOUND Monday· Thuraday: !5pm-2am Friday: 
FlfH PICkUP I O!UVEitY 4·;;~;;\i.liaA··s·;;C>R·w:e·c;;~2047........ 
We didn'llorget you either Mary H ..Happy
I ......................... 

3pm-1am Saturday: 4pm·10pm Sunday. 
PLEASE CALL LIZ 284·41 02 PLEASE

TYPING 8-0ay!
HELP IT IS VERY IMPORTANT I GET 

WANTED
.-111....... 
n;;·i:i'Ci~i;·j;;;;;·;·;;;;;;;~~·Nv·;;:;;;;·;ci.iAS
THIS BACK!I!II ................................................................ break (tv 12·20 & 11m 1-1 2) I need ro apMia "j:ifY':iOe.MuRPH·v·vou'Cilii'ixlcir··· 
11114-11'1a 
-..-~--~~-I PERSONALS
L......;;-~-...-.:,-.i--~-~~--:_-·n_:.__iio-..li-!.....J....
LOST • BURGUNDY GIRl'S EYE tix wllh aomeone. Cell Jim at 1911 11 you IT'S HARD TO BELIEVE YOU'RE 21 GLASSES BETWEEN THE GROTIO wan! the return ponjon !rom NY to SB
TYPING DONE •vIALLY. 272-7573. NOW ......................................... WE'Ll MAKE SURE EVERYONE ELSE
BUS STOP AND FLANNER. IF FOUNO Ride nMdaello WAaH., D.C. PSYC CLUB MEETING 7:00PM NOV .25 PLEASE CALl THERESAAT284-4128. torT"91vlng...._ . ON CAMPUS KNOWS TONIGHT 
John 234-7412 ...:··:·:·ii'i~'ii;~-~~·d!r,;~~~;;;;;;;;;;.·~~ Congratullriona. Mary Elen -you·,..
................................................................

LAFORTUNE AUD. OFFICER ElEC· 
that makM you the beat friend I have. going to be alialerl Brady Bunch, here we
TIONS, TALK ON STRATEGIES FOR FOUND: VARIOUS JACKETS WITH ................................................................ 
corner"KENOSHA", "ILL. STATE", "T.T. LAWN 
GETIING INTO GRAD SCHOOL. AND THE OBSERVER'S ANSWER TO
wANreo::rui:iOfiiNa······· iN........8ASic • Richard Bach. 
REFRESHMENTS SERVICE", AND "MALDEN CAT· RONALD REAGAN. WILLIAM BUCK· HOUC". CLAIM AT LOST AND FOUND. CHEMISTRV.MAKE AN EASY EXTRA The ltrldge Act08Il F-w LEV, RONA SARRETI, AND DUDLEY 
LAFORTUNE. BUCK AND HELP SOMEONE ................................................................ 
MOORE ROLLED INTO ONE· TURNS 

OUT.CALLALEX,EVENINGS,28~. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. 
Hey Toulou•e 21 TOOAYI YES FOLKS. IT'S JOE 
................................................................ CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 
Have you done any menial ergodzalion MURPHY'S BIRTHDAYI.YOU KNOW Loet: My father loet hia OmeQI! watch R1de needed to AKitON for Turkey Day BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. lll<lly? HIS ROOMMATE WON'T MIND IF ANY
LOST/FOUND I 
on Tull8.26afler 12:1511 call Moe ar4173 of !he Mluiaalppi 1111me, November 9. ................................................................ Earn $$$ for all thoee bool<a you didn't 
aomewhere on cempua on the s.turday Adieu from thoee aazy jeuMe fllfea In GIRLS STOP BY TO WISH HIM HAPPY 
Waleh BIRTHDAY. FUTURE CAMPAIGN 
$$$$$$ S$$$$ S$$$ S S $$$IF YOU read!! PANDORA'S wil buy your uaed
Tnia W81ch hu greet per.onal value to DONATIONS AND VARIOUS OTHER ARE GOING TO BE AROUND DURING books M-F 1l·4. or we cen help you flnd a
him. II hu a leather band. with hla com· pany'a lntl1ials, WNL, on lr. face. The CHRISTMAS BREAK AND WOULD LIKE 
FOUND: A woolen cap on the 11dewlllk In GIFTS (~A, HA) WILl BE ACCEPTED 
uaed book for a cllu. We're open M-F 11· 
lront ol the Notre Dame Poat Office. May AU. DAY TODAY IN 128FISHERHALL. 
TO EARN SOME EXTRA $$$SSS. THE 6, SAT & SUN 10.5. PANDORA'S is op­
watch alao huhla name engraved on It In posite CORBY'S a\937 South Bend Ave. 
beclelmed rn Room 8-19 Fltzpatricl< or by ecr1pt: John K. Drake. P18M8 call 234· PHONE/ MAIL PROGRAM IS JUST THE HAPPY ANNIVERSARY 0363 or 284·5236 and uk lor Rcee II you PLACE FOR YOUI PARTICIPATE IN 11011 AND DAD have any info about thia welch. Thenk CALLING ALUMNAE OF SMC IN AN EX· App~calionl for AN To.TAL 
clllllng 239-6381 
you! CITING FUND RAISING VENTURE. EXECUTIVE COIIIITIEE poaitione ere 99.9 percent· 1hal'l the percent-eo ol HIGHSCHOOL JACKET LOST: VERY. brain cell in Joe Murphy'a head lhal wiM
SMC STUDENTS ONLY. CALL MARTHA available in the lludent govemmenr olfice VERY. VERY SENTIMENT ALII pielure of 
on the eecond ftoor of LAI Fortune. Anyone be deatroyed tonight after a birlhdlly trip toLOSTI A grey Swatch with a black l­OR PAT AT 5351 TOOAYI!I
N-Vorl< atate on t.ct<-"CHRIS" on When what you need Ia impoeelble. the thet>w.. !hal' a right· 89.9 petCerrtl
and lwo IWalChiiiiUrda. Poulbly a1 the ................................................... inter118led In working for the zani1181 group
Iron!·· "12"on lleeve II you return ll. I 
inlerceuion you wan! il ST JUDE'S . ................................. .
Rocl<ne Memorial. Wu given to meby my Ride needed ro ,Cincinnati lor Thanksgiv­on cempue ahould apply by December 2. 
promree I'M make 11 worth your while 
ing break. Call Joe at 4181 Any quesriona? Call Kendra Erven &1289-Happy b-day Jutie II don't metrer you're THANK YOU I Chrie1453 
Hometown Honey and hu gr""t aan­timenlal value. Latge reward offeredlll ................................................. 4417. And 11hought 11 wu my cell 
jull 18. We're oflro the Uneblld<er. . ....................

WANT RIDERS TO PITISBURG AREAPI8M8 cal Eric at 283 2558 
j;;;~ii;·H~ve a "SUPER OUPER"b-<lay

11/27·12/1. CALl ELAINE 272·7245 THE BRIDE IS BACK I! Luv, Popper,Geek. Sluggo,
LOST: PAiR OF.GLASsES. GOLD·M~-­
..................................... Jul1e-t jull wanted 10 !ell you how much I 
TAL FRAME AND SLIGHTLY TINTED. 
FOUND: 14K GOLD BRACELET IN THE Janle.Chlebeck 
WERE IN A SOFT. BROWN CASE. IF RIDERS-Wanled ;o Weotcheater/NYC m1u you and am looking fO<WWd to your
LIBRARY. TELl ME WHAT FLOOR AND THE BRIDE IS BACK I! 
FOUND, PLEASE CALL 3-404. THANK· area; lellving Wed. aft.. nn Sun. Shere return In December. Take cere Love,
THE DATE LOST TO CLAIM. 4384. 

ueulll. Call Tom ai277-<J289. 
John.
THE BRIDE IS BACK II 

YOU ...n;-e·wCiMe·N·OF AUGUSTA HALl
LOST: Silver Medal with Our Lady on fron1 and Santo Nino on t.ck. I think llefllt in Need a ride to and lrom Chicago? Ridea Remember Merge and thetoadl? 
WOULD LIKE TO WISH 
JOSEPH IGNATIUS MURPHY 

FOUND A WHITE YARN CAP. SUNDAY thaRockonMII7.11you found II pi-call to and lrom Chicago. Fly cheaper !han the Well, the rabbit died, 10 I gu-that
FOR SALE 
A HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAYIII 

EVENING IN FRONT OF DILLON HAll. Rich a\2458. airlinee! Cal Pllnemaaler Services Inc. meana ahelound her handlome prince. 
BE PREPARED JOE. $$$REWARD$$$$ LOST: UNUSUAL '83 RENAULT ALliANCE OL, 40R, 
1431 312-377-5730 
WE'Ll PARTY 'TILL WE DROP! BLACK METAL PEN SOMEWHERE ON 5SPD TRANS, AM-FM CASSETIE. WANTED: ONE IINNEIOTA ITATE 
II. Louie Club lllemllaN LOST: ameli cemeo ring on Monday NO CAMPUS HIGH PERSONAL VALUE LOW MILEAGE, 2 YEAR WARRANTY. FLAOTOUIEFDRAPRUENTATlONI Thanks to al who hatped HAPPY 8-DAY JOEl
11118 ·maybe In N.Otnlng'HIIII or BP. II CALL 288·8119 OR 284-5038 EXCELLENT CONDITION, $4225, 287· CALL IHIRLEY AT 2»AA3 •n­make Sal. nightaeuex»N found. PLEASE c.M1264 REWARD $$$REWARD$$$ 8493 WEEH tAll I 4PIII PLI!AIEfll 
·DAB­


The Observer Monday, November 25, 1985 -page 8 
Notre Dame hockey team picks up 1st road'win 

By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. · The Notre Dame hockey team got its first road victory ofthe year Saturday night by beating Lake Forest, 6-3. Rich Sobilo scored twice, including a short­handed tally, and Tim Lukendaregis­tered 36 saves to pace the Irish to the win. The victory boosted the 
Irish recored to 4-7-1 while the Foresters fell to 0-5-1. 
After the game, Notre Dame head coach Lefty Smith praised his team's performance. 
"We got an excellent overall ef. 
Sports Information Dept. 
SID receives acclaim 

Editor's note: Today The Observer concludes itsfour-part series on the various offices within the Notre Dame athletic department. Part four focuses on the sports informa­tion office.) 
•

By GREG STOHR 
Sports Writer 
Ever thought about where those 
big, thick media guides for Irish foot· 
ball and basketball seasons come 
from? Ever wondered who keeps 
track of all Notre Dame's sports 
statistics for the media? How about 
who gets programs ready for foot· 
ball and basketball games? 
The hidden office responsible for all these visible functions is the sports information department, a division of the Notre Dame athletic department with an office tucked far away in the back right hand corner of the athletic department office in theACC. 
The sports information depart­
ment performs a variety ofduties for 
the university. Apart from produc­
ing the media guides for all 19 var­
sity sports and the game programs, 
For the past two years the depart­ment has also trained an intern, one who hopes to work as a sports in­formation director somewhere the 
following year. Mike McCall is doing his internship at Notre Dame in 
1985-86. 

.--------..,
"Internship at Notre Dame is 

·the department compiles all statis· tics from Notre Dame sporting events, mails weekly releases to media, and coordinates radio and television coverage for home sport­
~~ 
Roger Valdiserri, who doubles as Associate Athletic Director, has headed this important office as Sports Information Director since 1966. In the past nine years he has 
earned 43 awards from the College 
.------------------------------..... R:~ &~!:~~~u;:~~"?'~~=-=:i!~
I ~1985 Rax Restaurants, Inc. I 

SObering ~~v-. I lEI 
cansavealife;.~ I=~~~:/85. 1 
~------------------------------------~1.................1 

Fly Ham•l:a N•w Yark wil:h Th• Lan'=ll•land Club 
Leaves South Bend Airport 
December 21 at 12:40 am

-
(a little afta midnight ya's dummies) Return flight leaves N.Y.L.G.A. 
January 12, 1 0:30 pm Fare $195. 

Transportation to/from South Bend Airport included 
Reservations: $ 20.00 deposit Call 2448 ;or ~"' ::~ils to Rm. 33 Pangborn Hall Deposit requ.. Ptl l,y Dec. 2 

fort from everyone, especially the penalty killers," Smith said. "We moved the puck well, forechecked well, and broke out well. 
"It's very positive to go out and win one on the road," Smith con­tinued. "It gets that monkey (the Irish had won but one game on the road dating back to last season) off our back." 
This game was much more physi­cal than Thursday night's 4-4 tie with the Lake Forest squad. Notre Dame displayed intense forecheck­ing throughout the game. Their defensive effort ai.iowed only one equal-strength goal. 
Sports Information Oirc:t.:tors of America for his sportspublications. 
Valdiserri's top aide is Associate Sports Information Directo' John Heisler, who directs publicity in­volving Irish football and basketball. Now in his eighth year in Notre Dame's sports information depart­ment, Heisler has helped produce 
1 0 programs and media guides which have been judged best in the nation by the CSIDA. 
Fourth-year Assistant Sports In­formation Director Eddie White handles the 1 7 "non-revenue" sports. He, too, can boast of award­winning publications. The CSIDA has voted three of his publications among the top five in the nation. 
The department also employs three secretaries and eight student workers. The students, some of whom hope to be sports information directors themselves in the future, 
work two hours a day, five days a week, orgainizing information on as­signed teams. 
"We give them a lot of respon­
sibility and supervise their work," says Valdiserri. "A lot of them get some very good 'on hands' training." 

really a good stepping stone," says I FREEl I Valdiserri. "Our intern last year • ended up as sports information J REGULAR RAX® I director for the Midwestern Cities I WITH PURCHASE OF I Conference." I REGULAR FRIES ANDI 
~~~~~~ RINK 
all the programs, guides and releases MEDIUM D about Notre Dame sports. Indeed, I I the results of the sports information I Our famous Rax roast beef, sliced I
thin, piled high, and served on a department are quite visible. Only sesame-seed roll. 
the people behind the programs, I"'""""pro•nl e-n bdoro ordoring. One 
I 

guides and releases remain hidden. coopon per person per visit Not valid on combination I 
Lukenda, looking sharper with each game, thwarted two Forester breakaways within the span of a minute in the third period. 
The Irish got off to a quick start. Brent Chapman scored his sixth goal of the season with only 36 seconds gone in the first period. For Chap· man, though, the game would finish early. 
After freshman center Brian 
Montgomery scored on a puck that 
deflected off the stick of Lake Forest 
defenseman Jim Kuznar, Chapman 
was given a five-minute major and a 
game disqualification for spearing 
while the Irish were killing off a 

Notre Dame hockey player Dave Waldbillig, day's rematch_ because of injury. Tbe Irish picked 
sbown bere in action Friday against Lake Forest, up tbe win, though, by outscoring the Foresters, 6-3. 
could not make tbe trip to Lake Forest for Satur-Dennis Corrigan has details above. 
..--------------II••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..
FRESHMEN & SOPHOMORES ONLY!! scholarships, grants, student financial aid available WRITE for Free Details: Scholarship Research Service 803 S. 34thAve. Hattiesbur 

......=.;,;:~~ll;;,IIWiilii.,..lliaiiWI.,__ _. 
penalty. In the resulting five-minute power play, the Foresters tied the score on goals from Kevin Hannigan and jim Elia. 
That would be as close as the Foresters would get for the rest of the game. With one minute left in Chapman's major penalty, Sobilo converted a pass from Jeff Badalich to put the Irish al).ead 3·2. Sobilo scored his second of the night and the Irish's fifth on a pretty back· handed shot in the second period. Tom Mooney had the fourth Notre Dame tally on a power-play score with Badalich picking up another as­sist. 
Freshman center Bob Bilton got the first goal of his Notre Dame career at 6:34 of the third to round out the ·Irish scoring.. With just un­der three minutes to go in the game, Lake Forest's Tim Kelly's. netted a slapshot from the top of the slot to finish off the scoring. 
One sour note for the Irish, co­captain Dave Waldbillig and center Mark Anquillare did not make the trip as they joined co-captain Bob Thebeau on the injury list. 
The Irish return to the road this weekend for a pair of games at Air Force. 
Ibe <>beH'vcr/Hannn Hacker 

with 
e 
CIARKTELE 
CDrvlMUNilATIONS, INC. 
74% LESS  7!% LESS  74% LESS  
THAN AT&h  THAN AT&h  THAN AT&h  
DAYTIME RATES  EVENING RATES  NIGHTTIME RATES  

LESS COST-Clark Telecommunication rales are 7112% below AT&T rates all the lime. 7'1>% below daytime, evening and nighttime rares. 
LESS HASSLE -Because Clark itemizes your billing for each individual, there is no more figuring our your roommate's calls. 
LESS NOISE -Clark long distance is clear, quality communications. No more strange interference, funny noises, dead air, or low volume with Clark. · 
LESS RUNAROUND-Because' Clark was chosen by the Administration of the University of Notre Dame to handle long disrance service for srudents, we have an on-campus service representalive ro answer questions and respond ro problems righl away. 

your voice counts . . . . Call today ro start saving on all your long distance services, or see our ON-CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE In room G91 In the Memoria/ Library. 283-4150 
~ CLqRKTELE 
~ COfv1MUNICATIONS, INC 
211 West Washington Suite 1700 South Bend, IN 46601 

~----------------------------------~-----­

The Observer 
ASU hands Irish loss 
By C.W. EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
For the Notre Dame volleyball team, the weekend brought the final home match ofthe year. The Irish went up against nationally· ranked Arizona State and lost in straight games, 15-6, 15·8, 15·5. 
"By far, they were the best defensive team we've played against all year," said Notre Dame head coach Art lambert. "But we're a young team and we've got a way to go." 
The Irish are young Indeed. Lambert started a lineup 
ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 hr..banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Houn • Monday through Friday Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 

Friday-ll:OOa.m. -4:00p.m.  ~source  
Join Michiana•s 1st Team  ~Bank  
for unsurpa~sed banking service!  Member F.D.I.C.  

showcasing three sophomores and three freshman. Seniors Mary McLaughlin and Tracy Ben· nington, both of whom were playing In their last home game, each made appearances off the bench. 
All that is left for the 12-19 Irish this season is the Ransier In· vitational in Kalamazoo, Mich. over Thanksgiving weekend. 
'fruu four-team tournament will feature the likes of No. 3 UCLA and No. 15 Western Mic· higan as well as the University of Houston. 


Lochmandy Leasing & Rental, Inc. 
IINational Car Rental. 

Weallend and Weatcly Specials all year round. Need transpoffatlon to get oil campus tor the _..end? check our low rates. Going on a long trip? we have _..ly specials designed tor a student's 
budget. 
One Way Rentals Available to over 100o locations· allow unlimited mileage rates with no drop charges. Excellent way to get home tor vacation at reasonable prices. · 
Conveniently Located at the 
We feature GM cars like this Buick Regal. 


BANKING••• 
Monday, November 25, 1985-page 9 
..I 

l
Senior tackle Eric Dorsey wraps up an LSU bal­1985 bo,efootba/1season. 
lcarrier Saturday, helping to wrap up Notre Dame's 
J 
1

Misses 
continuedfrom page 12 
extra-point attempts all this season 
prior to Saturday's game. 
"I made (the decision to change kickers) right after Lewis missed the second one," said Arnsbarger. "In the pregame warmup, I didn't think Ron was kicking the ball well. I felt it was time to give someone else a chance." 
As it turned out, replacement Matt DeFrank lined up for a 27-yard at­tempt which he barely placed over the crossbar in the Irish end zone with 44 seconds left in the first half. With a late touchdown and the DeFrank conversion, the Tigers were able to rack up ten points to top the Irish. 
While DeFrank had an outstand­ing day with a punting average of 
40.7 yards and four points in a 

Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
a lack of execution at critical times that did them in. Beuerlein was in­tercepted twice in the final two minutes, and John Carney had two field goal tries blocked by LSU's Henry Thomas and missed a third after it was tipped at the line of scrimmage. 
"It was especially tough on the seniors, but the way it happened it was tough on everybody," said Beuerlein. "We played well, but it just wasn't meant to be. It makes you wonder what it takes to win. It's frustrating." 
In addition to being the last home appearance for the 24 Irish seniors, this game also was most likely the last Notre Dame Stadium contest for Irish head coach Gerry Faust. But af. terwards Faust, who is on the final year ofa five-year contract and is not expected to be offered an extension, tried to downplay his situation. 
"I never even thought of that," 
unique outing as the back-up kicker, 
Irish kicker John Camey was en­
tangled within the webbing ofa for· 
gettable day · perhaps his worst as a 
kicker. In three attempts for the day, 
the junior watched two of his at· 
tempts get batted away and another 
fall wide to the left. 
After extending the Irish lead to seven following their initial score, Camey saw his next kick get blocked by LSU noseguard Henry Thomas after a 1 0-play Notre Dame drive. TI1en, after barely missing Car­ney's second try, Thomas got through the line again In the second half to knock down a third attempt foUowing an 18-play Irish march. 
"(Tiger defensive end Karl Wil­son) was able to open the hole for me," explained the 6-2, 255-pound Thomas·. "He knocked the guy out of the way. I was just able to get through the line and I guess I just timed It weU when the kick came." 
Faust replied in the post-game press conference when asked if he con· sidered this to be his last game at Notre Dame Stadium. Everyone else apparently did think ofit, however. 
Faust said he had no idea as to whether or not he would be back to coach the team next season. An an­nouncement on that subject should be forthcoming next week. But Faust's post-game philosophizing in the past tense about his tenure at Notre Dame raised a few eyebrows. 
"I've gotten a lot ofbreaks in life," Faust said. "I'm healthy. I've got a healthy family. I've represented a great unive~ity. I'm just happy to have had that opportunity." 
Faust's five-year record now stands at 30·25·1. He has lost more games than any coach In Notre Dame history. 
As for the game, it looked as if it might be a long day for the LSU defense when Notre Dame scored on its opening drive on an 18-yard end-around run by Brown. But as things turned.out, those were the only points the Irish would get. 
"It wasn't a question of moving the ball," said Beuerlein, "because I think we did a good job of that. It was just a question of putting the ball in the end zone." 
Although Notre Dame's otfense managed to do that only once, the defense came within three-and-a· 
half minutes of making it stand up. 
ii,~lfllii··~·-···4 
In Nowl\>11< Sllte Sto""" H K;ipl;ln Educoloonal Genl•• l.ld 
TEST PRE!'MATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 CALL DAYS, EVENINGS 6 WEEKENDS 1717 E. Soul'l Bend Ave. South Bend. Indiana 46637 
19) 272·4135
.._____________.. 
FoUowing early injuries to Irish quick tackle jay Underwood and strong guard Shawn Heffern, Notre Dame was forced to test Its depth on the llne. 
"We had a couple of breakdowns in the Jlne," explained holder Hal Von Wyl. "The loss of Underwood and Shawn (Heffern) were key losses." 
While Thomas was able to penetrate the llne and get at the kicked balls, credit al10 should be given to the Tiger defensive line which created the openings for the junior noseguard to keep the Irish score at seven. 
While the Irish saw late drives fal· ter after the Tigers established a 10· 7 lead, the kicking game proved to be a crudal ingredient. Ofthe seven field goal attempts lOr tbr day, only one was successful. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, that 
was the difterence in the match. 

Up until that point the Tigers had managed only a second-quarter field goal by punter Matt Defrank, who was called upon by Arnsparger to replace the inetfcctlvc Ron Lewis. But late in the founh quarter a fine punt by DeFrank pinned Notre Dame in its own end and helped set up the good field position for the 
Tigers' winning touchdown drive. 

That drive started on the Tigers' 48-yard line, and was keyed by quar­terback Jeff Wickersham's three completions for 49 yards. Tailback Garry James blasted through a gaping hole over left tackle for the winning points with a little more than three minutes to play. 
Wickersham had an outstanding day, connecting on 31-of-42 passes for 294 yards, setting a record for passes completed against a Notre Dame team. He benefitted all after­
noon from consistent pass protec­tion that did not allow a sack. 
After the LSU touchdown Notre Dame took the ensuing kickoff and drove to midfield, but Beuerlein threw high over the middle for Reggie Ward and saw his pasS inter· cepted by LSU's Ron Sancho to halt the drive. 
The Irish got one last gasp when Eric Dorsey forced and recovered a fumble by Dalton HIUfard, but that threat ended when Beuerlein's pass found Rehage's hands on the first play. 
..........,......... 

Loullll-SUite  0  ll  0  7  10  
Notnol>lome  7  0  o  o  - 7  
'-~•  

NO-Brown 18 run (C8meyldclkJ 
L8U -OeFI'Wik 27 FO 
LSU-J8mee 2 run (Oefi'Wikldc:k) 

~ NO 
Firlt downl 21 18 Rulhlng attempll 31 43 NetYardaRulhlng 86 158 NetYardaPUIIng 2e4 136 P-comp-attempted 31-42 1•-30 Had Intercepted 1 2 Talai Net Verda 360 2e4 Fumblee-loet 3-1 0.0 PeMitlea-yarda 3-26 4-47 Punll-av.,. 4-40.7 6-38.8 
lncllvlduiii~Aed.ra 

RUSHING -Louleiana State: Hillard 111-48: Jamee 
8·11: Wlcl<.,..ham 3-7: JonM 1·2: Noire Dame:
P1nk811 30-103; Beuefleln 4·21; Brown 1·18; Fran· c11100 5-13: Stama 3-3: 
PASSING -Louleillna Stale: Wlcl<enhllm 31-42· 1,284; Noire O.me; Bauerlein 1 1 ·211-2. 108: Andryliak 3-5-0,30; 
RECEIVING -Loullli-State: Martin 8·76; MllgM 7·78; Hllll..-d 8-63; Ancnwe •-40; ~ 4·22; Oweni2·25:Notre0ame·.Pinhlt4·24:8rown3-33: Stama 2~11; Render 1·17: W-.1 1·17; Mille< 1·18; 
Heel< 1-12; Monahan HI;
AttendanCe-511.075 


Monday, November 25, 1985-page 10
The Observer 


The Obeerver/H.,_. Hocker 

Senior forward jtm Dolan of the Notre Dame basketball team takes a shot tn Friday night's 79-49 Irish victory over St. joseph's (Ind.). Dolan spent much oftbe game on tbe bench as bead coach Digger Phelps inserted 13 different players in tbe 1985 season opener. 

SMC basketball team loses, 58-57, on last-second Kalamazoo prayer 
ByJILL SARBENOFF 
Sports Writer-
The Saint Mary's basketball team lost a heartbreaker Saturday night at Kalamazoo College, 58-57, on a last­second desperation shot from 25 feet out. 
The Belles completed 32 percent of their shots from the .floor for a to­tal of 56 points. They suffered at the line, however, completing only one out of their three free throw chances. Kalamazoo, on the other hand, went 12-for-25 in this depart­ment. 
Even though the team lost this first game of the season, St. Mary's head coach Marvin Wood was still pleased with the Belles' perfor­
mance. 
"I really felt we played pretty good. There were a couple of dead spots when the ball just would not go into the basket, but we were playing a team with a lot ofsize. 
"It was hard playing against their match-up so early in the season," continued Wood. "but the girls 
• 

. 
~~
Happy Birthday 
LET US SHOW YOU ~~ THE "FUN WAY" TO



J!Jtllla c~. 
A BEAUTIFUL 
F.., Tift, Inc. T.-.g Salon st Rd. 23-u~ Commonl HEALTHY TAN! Souttt -.IN • 2111272-71163 
Best Student Pricing 
I!W::ATI(lNAI. CENTER lnNewlbii<SMit SlloloyH KopionEducii.,..,Cente<Lill TEST -..noN9IIB:IAUSTS SINCE 11138 
CALL DAYS, EVEIINGS • WEEKENDS 1717 E. Soul'1 Bend Ave. So(ith Bend. Indiana 46637 35 

made some excellent adjustments. Our press did well most of the time and our quickness created some dif­ficulties for them." 
Offensively, the Belles made relatively few mistakes and had only 19 turnovers. Leading scorer for Saint Mary's was seniorforward Beth Krieber out ofColumbus, Ohio with 20 points. Sophomore Tammye Radke from Saint Joseph, Mich. was next with a total of 12 points. In ad­dition, Krieber helped pace the defense with her eight rebounds. Freshman center Jennifer Harte out ofOak Park, Ill. had seven rebounds, while sophomore center-forward, Stephanie Duke, had six. The Belles also had a total of 22 assists and 16 steals in Kalamazoo. 
According to Woods, there are three goals he would like to see the team accomplish this year. 
"First of all, we'd like to be a win­ner. Last season was a really long season, winning only four games. There are a lot of young ladies who are giving (us) a lot oftheir time and 
3 Bed VIsits ........ 

Rivers 
continuedfrom page 12 

( 7-of-15 from the floor, 6-of-6 from the line). The sophomore guard with the flashy moves even was moved to attempt a few new ones. 
"You have to try some new things at some point in time," he said. "This was a good game to do that. As the season goes on, you're going to see more and more new things. 

"We really didn't play well tonight, though, and I think that was due to a lack of mental concentra­tion. Mentally, we didn't really prepare for St. Joe because they didn't come in here with that big ofa reputation." 
St.Joseph's, 0-1, was paced by Stan Kappers' 18 points and 13 rebounds. Mark Wingard added 13 points for the Pumas. 
With the game well in hand, Phelps had an opportunity to clear the bench and give his reserves plenty of playing time. Walk-on Steve Nicgorski even managed to get in for the game's final minute, taking the opportunity to register the frrst field goal of his college career. 
~e Irish take the week off now, 
not playing again until Saturday 
when Butler visits the ACC for a 1 
p.m. start. The game is not included in the student season ticket package because it is over break. 

effort. It'd be worthwhile to have. winning season. 
"Also, we'd like to win a tourna­ment," continued Woods. "We play in one at Goshen and we are hosting one this season. Thirdly, we'd like to get in the NAJA playoffs. Getting in means being one ofthe better teams in the area." 
The Belles, nevertheless, will be tested a number of times in the up­coming games on the schedule. Among their opponents are Val­paraiso University, which is in Divi­sion I, St. Joe's College, a Division II member, and Aquinas College. Aquinas is the winner of last year's National Catholic Championship. 
In the irnmediate future, Saint Mary's will take on Hunnington Col­lege Tuesday night at Hunnington. There are several things the team is doing to prepare for this game and to avenge this weekend's loss. 
"We are going to go over things (Hunnington) did last year," said Woods. "We will prepare for what they did to us last year and, hope­fully, we will be ready for them." 

STOP IN TODAY AND SEE USI OR CALL US AT 219/272-7653 
Located well of Unlvettlly Park on state Road 23 ©1911 Rill fAN; IIC. 
Frldlly'a Reaulta 
Notre Dame 79, St. Joaeph'a (lnd.)49 St. Joaeph'a {Ind.) {49) 
M FG-A  FT·A  R  F  P  
Kappers  37  7-15  4-6  13  3  18  
Stitz  21  2-4  1-2  2  4  5  
Wingard  33  5-12  3-4  5  2  13  
Miller  28  2·7  1-2  3  0  5  
Weber  26  2-9  0-0  2  4  4  
Kennard  3  0-2  0-0  1  1  0  
Alicea  20  0-3  1-2  2  1  1  
Keyser  2  0-0  0-0000  
Steineman  3  0-0  0-0000  
Brown  2  0-0  0-0000  
Ruzevich  21  0-1  0-0  2  4  0  
Foley  2  h1  1-2  1  0  3  
Cromer  1  0-1  0-0  0  0  0  
Nordhoff  10-0  0-0000  
200 19-55 11-18  31  19  49  
FG  Pet  -.345.  FT  Pet.  • .611.  Team  

rebounds -5. Turnovers -26. Assists · 11 (Miller4). Technicals-none. 
Notre Dame {79) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Royal 31 2·5 6-9 1 0 10 Barlow 26 5-9 4-4 13 0 14 Kempton 13 3-6 0-1 4 2 6 Rivers 30 7-15 6-6 5 2 20 Hicks 19 1-2 0-0 3 4 2 Stevenson 222-80-0124 Peters 30-00-0100 Smith 5 1·3 0-0 2 0 2 Connor 5 2-5 0-0 0 2 4 Price 18 2-4 1-2 0 0 5 Dolan 8 0-1 0-0 2 0 0 Voce 19 5-6 0-0 8 4 10 Nicgorski 1 1·1 0-0 1 0 2 
200 31-65 17-22 41 16 79 
FG Pet. -.477. FT Pet. -.773. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers -17. Assists · 15 (Hicks 5). Technicals ·none. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 39, St. Joseph's 22. Officials -Dave Barry, Dick Bestor. George Demos (all MAC). A-11,345 (ca. 
... 

•
What Should Catholics Know About... • •
•
•
•
•
•
PRAYERFR. JOliN DUNNE , •
• 
SACRAMENTS 
I I I 

FR. ANDRE LEVEILLE • •• •• SCRIPTURE and TRADITION 
.FR. DAN JENKY: MORALITY
FR. HONK MALLOY CHURCH

---·-------•FR. TOM O'MEARA 
• 
• 
• 

•
• !12~ Medium PIZZA (any topping)! 
! with extra cheese
•
•
i PLUS
•
• 
! Garlic Bread with cheese •
•
•i $5.25 tplusdellueryondtaxJ •
•
•
f
. 
~
• 
•

i. • ~Pizza--~ 
.•• __, __....,_____
• 52929 u.s.lll'bth 
•
•
•
•
; Good/orSundays and Mondays 
:• 
only ..,itla coupon 
'111E CA'I110LIC FAI'nl PROGRAM will present ••••these speakers and topics on SUNDAYS (January 19 -February 16 in Keenan -Stanford Chapel) and again on TUESDAYS (January 21 -February 18 in Keenan -Stanford end Walsh Hall Chapels) ••• 
7 -8:30 P.M. 

Pre-registration Necessary •••deadline December 9th 
Contact: OFFICE OF UNIVERSITY MINISTRY Memorial Library -239-6536 Badin llall Office -239-5242 
Qmyouaffordtogamble with the LSAT,-GMAT,GRE,orMCA17 
ProbaoJ:y not. Great grades alone may not be enou!lh t<;> impress the gra<l school of .your choice. 
Scores play a part. And 

thafs how Stanley H. Kaplan 
can help. 

The Kaplan course teaches 
test-taking techniques. reviews 
course subjects. and increases 
the odds that you'll do the best 
you cando. 
So ifyou've been out of 

school for a while and need a 
refresher. or even ifyou're fresh 
out ofcollege, do what over 1 
million students have done. 
Take Kaplan. Why take!
a chance with your 
career? 


KAPLAN 

STANLEY H. KAPLAN EOUCAIK.Jt'<lll GNTER LTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272-4135 

i 
•
!
•
•
i
•
•
• 
i•
• 
•
•
•
.
• 
i• 
.
•
.• 
• 
•; •
• •
! 



T0 day_____________________
M_o_n_d_a_y_,_N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_z_s_,_l_9_s_s__pllllllallllig_e_l_l 
Bloom County 
L.ANte •.. 
IWIINrWU 10 MI/Kf?Y 
Me. 
I 

Zeto 
L./lN1~ ••. 8118Y... €N()I..{.H OF nilS Sf/&111? 800-W•. F(I{XfNG fii?(}(JNP... HOW t.ONG H.4V€ 
t.£1'5 senu We f%£3N {l(}WN liN/? 5TIIKT /?IITlN& NOW ?
11 HIM/lY. 
I
I 

1 Mex.dish  
6 Tough's doll  
10 Tags on  
14 Dud  
15 Oil-rich  
prince  
16 Winter need  
17 Woeful word  
18  -Nostra  
19 Jazzy  
Fitzgerald  
20 60's fashion  
22 Steelworks  
23 Mork's Dawber  
24 Affirmative  
26 So long  
27 Wage payer  
32 Rambler  
34 Has influence  
36 Wood holder  
39 Russia's  
neighbor  
40 McCarthy of  
films  
42 Great review  
43 Clan symbol  
45 Spruces up 47 Some is cast  eJ 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved  11/25/85  
49 Rubbing lotion 50 Relative of  7 Cupid  Weekend's Solution  
pshaw  8 Indistinct  
52 Moray  9 Pencil end  
54 Dry, as wine  10 Throat clearer  
55 Burden  11 Juries do  
57 Table staple  12 Flirt  
63 Office helper  13 Humdrum  
64 Oligarch  21 Arctic boat  
65 Sp. pal  25 Mayday!  
66 Br. weapon  27 Glveoff  
67 First name  28 Painter Joan  
in song  29 Cliches  
68 Rub-on patch  30 Eye make-up  
69 Trial run  31 Celebrate  
70 Historic  33 Get out  
71  Low joint  35 Left-handed  
37 Tied  
DOWN  38 Occident  
1 Chowder meat  41 Afternoon  
2 Copter prefix 3 "-oldcow·  prayer 44 Stooge name  11/25/85  
hand"  46 Colombian  
4 Places  river  51  Wed  59 Prayer end  
5 Singing group  48 Snuggle  53 Sci·fi weapon  60 Punt  
member once  50 Breakfast  56 Posted  61 Gallic equal  
6 Small length  bread  58 A Turner  62 Function  


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 

Campus 

•12:00 
P.M. · Brown Bag Presentation, "Poverty Research and Public Polley Analysis", Dr. Rodney F. Ganey, University of Notre Dame, Ubrary Lounge, 

•6:00 
P.M. · 8:00 P.M. · Ski Trip Sign Ups, Junior Class Ski Trip, Junior Class Office, 


The Far Side Gary Larson
Berke Breathed 
1fii€NrY liN/? MY M!Nt/TES. 8/{}{.0G/CI/1.­ClOCK IS
I 
11CKIN&/ 
\ 

Kevin Walsh 

YOU KNOw, :m~L.OIN ~, F"lt.ET Mlt!INCN, CHICKEN 



140.00 
•7:00 
P.M.· Meeting, Psychology Club, little Theater, LaFonune Student Center 

•7:00 
P.M. and 9:00 P.M. · Monday Night FUm Series, "VIridiana", Annenberg Auditorium 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Veal Patty with Brown Sauce BeefStew over Biscuit Pasta Primavera HotDogs 
TV Tonight 
6100P.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 :z:z 22 Eyewitness News 6:30P.M. 16 NBC Nightly News :z:z CBS Evening News 1100P.M. 16 MASH :z:z Three's Company 7:30P.M. 16 Barney Miller :z:z WKRP In Cincinnati 8100P.M. 16 TV Bloopers and jokes :z:z CBS Special Movie: "Allee in Wonderland" :Z8 Hardcastle and McCormfilk 
}4  Wonderworks:  "Bridge  to  
Terabithla"  
8:30P.M.  46  Calvary Temple  
9:00P.M.  16  NBC Monday Night Movie: "A  
Letter to Three: Wives"  
28  NFL Monday Night Football: LA.  
Rams at San Francisco  

Saint Mary's Roast Turkey with Cornbread Dressing 
lO:OOP.M. 
10:30P.M. ll:OOP.M. 
11:30 P.M. 
12:00A.M. l:z:30A.M. 
2:00A.M. 
Beefand Bean Burrito Vegetarian Chow Mein Quiche Lorraine 
34  The Brain: "State ofMind"  
46  LeseaAllve  
:z:z  Cagney and Lacey  
34  Power Struggle  
46  Silent Cream  
46  Ught and Uvely  
16  NewsCenter 16  
:z:z  22 Eyewitness News  
34  Body Electric  
46  Praise the Lord  
16  Tonight Show  
:z:z  Remington  Steele/CBS  late  
Movie: "Sweet November"  
34  Star Trek  
28  WSJV Newswatch 28  
16  David Letterman  
28  ABC News Nightllnc:  
22  Nlghrwatch  

46 Independent Nerwork News 



SObering ~ev-I 
cansavea~~~~~ ~~ 
Think BefOre You Drink ~ ~ ·,Before YOU Drive '" 
~····jfif~-~iiini;di~;;::;···················································································l 
~~ . .
! , Summer Job Applications are due in the Alumni Office, Room 201 ~i 
!...........................................~~~::~:::::~~~.~-~:.~~~:::....................................~ 

Monday, November 25, 1985-page 12 



S~orts 
LSU hands Irish 10-7 defeat in '85 home finale 

ND basketball team opens season with win over St. Joe's 
ByJEFF BLUMB "Sometimes we were so anxious good job with shot selection in the stretching the Notre Dame lead shots. Defensively, they were Sports Editor to score points, we were over­first half." out to 35-1 7. Freshman Michael stronger than what we thought ­anxious to the point where we got Notre Dame, 1-0, was able to hit Smith followed up the spun mo­they took us right out ofour game. It's not often a team will admit nothing out ofit," said Notre Dame 48 percent ofits shots in the initial ments later with a baseline drive "And on defense, we couldn't that it played poorly in a 30-point coa1 Digger Phelps. "But, for the period as the Irish took a 39-22 for a nifty reverse layup. decide who was going to guard win. But that's exactly what the ope ·ng game, I thought we played halftime lead behind David Rivers' In the second half, St. Joe con­Rivers. I don't think either of the Notre Dame basketball team was fair! well. 12 points. After jumping out to a tinued to have trouble penetrating guys in the game wanted to guard saying after a 79-49 victory over St. I quick 8-2 advantage, Notre Dame the Irish defense. The problem was him. He is so good with the ball and )~ph's (Ind.) on Friday night. /"We were probably a little over­continued to hammer away at the a source of frustration for the can penetrate so quickly that he is 
:Although never In danger of tonfident, as well. Give St. Joe much smaller Pumas. Pumas all night. impossible to stop."
1 
, losing, the Irish struggled with credit for making us work; though. Donald Royal's monster d~nk "The primary factor in this game Once again, Rivers was next to their transition game throughout. They were very patient with their and ensuing three-point play with was Notre Dame's defense," said St. impossible to stop, leading all , Chalk that up to a couple of offense, while on offense we were 3:38 left in half number one sent Joe coach Dr. Bill Hogan. "They scorers in the game with 20 points 
"overs"-overconfidence and over­a little sluggish with our execu­the ACC crowd into a frenzy·and denied our passing lanes and we 
see RIVERS, page 10

anxiousness. tion. And we really weren't doing a the Irish on an 11-point run, had a hard time getting good clean 
-

'~~ Alumni Dogs shut out Planner, 8-0, 
to clinch interhall championship 
Notre Dame suffers another painful loss 
By LARRY BURKE 
.AssistantSportsEditor 
It could have been a perfect ending in a not-so­perfect season, but it turned out to be another one of those disappointing finishes that have become all too 
• 
I• familiar to Notre Dame fans this year. It wasn't until the final minute-and-a-half, when Steve Beuerlein's pass bounced off Tim Brown's chest and 
into the hands ofTiger strong safety Steve Rehage, that LSU could breath a sigh ofrelief. The 1 7th-ranked Tigers had to stave off two Notre Dame comebackdrives in the final three minutes to preserve their 10-7 victory before a capacity crowd of 59,075 in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Irish lost at home for the first time in six games this season, and saw their record drop to 5-5. I.SU went to 7-1-1 with the victory. 
Lost in the frustration of the loss was another fine effon by Allen Pinkett. The senior tailback picked up 103 yards on 30 carries, the 21st time in his career that he has surpassed the century mark. He also broke the 4,000-yard mark for his career and became the first back in Irish history to gain 1,000 yards in three con­secutive seasons. 
"The bottom line is the success of the team and win­ning the football game," Pinkett said when asked about his accomplishments. "Personal achievements don't mean that much to me in a loss. Ifwe lose I'll look back and figure that I must have been lacking somewhere in my performance." 
But as has been typical of many of Notre Dame's games this season, the Irish were not really lacking in the quality oftheir performance Saturday. Ratherit was 
see IRISH, page 9 


junior tailback Hiawatha Francisco carries the ball behind the blocking offullback Tom Monahan in Saturday's 10-7Irish loss to ISU. The game with the Tigers was the lastbornegamefor Monahan and23 otherNotreDameseniors. Larry Burke describes the gameat left, while Mike Chmiel details the problems both teams bad in the kicking game at right. 

Missed kicks make difference in defeat 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
In any one of their first five games at Notre Dame Stadium this season, a missed field goal by the Irish probably would not have had a bearing on the outcome of the contest. Using a mixed bag of field goals and touchdowns, Notre Dame was able to run up the tally sheet and account for its five wins in a fairly impressive manner. 
Saturday, however, the story was slightly different. In frigid conditions, the Irish became engaged in a tough, hard-hitting affair. Every point proved to be crucial as Notre Dame eventually lost a tight contest by the mar­gin ofa kick. 
"It was just one ofthose hard knockers with everyone going at it until the very end," explained I.SU head coach Bill Arnsbarger. "It was a great football game. It was what we had anticipated." 
What the Tiger coach did not expect, however, was 
to be trailing for most of the game. Scoring first, Notre 
Dame proceeded to dominate its rivals from I.SU 
throughout the first three quaners. 
With a i-0 deficit and the Tigers' holding the ball for the third time late in the first quarter, however, I.SU kicker Ron Lewis lined up for a 49-yard field goal at-' tempt. The sophomore promptly booted the ball short and wide to the right for the first ofhis two blunders. 
While this first kick was from considerable distance, Lewis' second miss was merely a chip shot, coming from only 26 yards away. This performance in a tight defensive struggle prompted Arnsbarger to replace Lewis with a punter who had lined up for only two 
see MISSES, page 9 
The Oblener/Paul Palloraky 

Planner's Eric Bobn (left) meets Alumni's Bill Smith (right) in yesterday's8-0Alumni victory wbicbgave the soutb quad team the 1985 interballfootball championship. Mike &egan relates the ac­tion atrigbt. 
By MICHAEL KEEGAN 
Sports Writer 
The center ofthe universe, at least in terms of interhall football, is Alumni Hall. 
On Sunday, Alumni and Flanner, two teams known for their physical play, met in Notre Dame Stadium to decide which hall would reign as the 1985 interhall football champion. When the game concluded, the Alumni Dogs had posted an 8-0 shutout of Flanner Hall. 
Both teams played well, but Alumni had a more overall balanced attack which propelled it to victory. 
The game began with Flanner on offense. The intensity to win was shown on the first play. Flanner quarterback Randy Bridgeman sent a flea-flicker pass downfield where it was intercepted by Alumni defensive back Steve Hagnell. Al­though this was nullified by defensive interference, it showed that both teams had come ready to play. Following this penalty, Flanner proceeded to march down the field behind the strong running of Jim Kelly. The drive was halted, though, as a field goal attempt was blocked by Alumni's Paul Laughlin. 
Following Flanner's opening drive, Alumni proceeded to open in an impressive fashion. On its second play from scrimmage, Tim Smith rambled for 50 yards to the Flanner 20-yard line before being tackled. The threat, however, ended as a Keh Scheurmann pass was intercepted by Jeff Strazis, a Flanner defensive back. 
In the second quaner Flanner, after a 13-yard run, gained 15 more yards on a penalty against the Alumni defense. With Flanner on the march again, the Alumni defense had to rise to the occassion. On second down, Bridgeman pitched the ball to Frank Malone who proceeded to fumble it. By the time he picked up the ball, a wall of Dog defensive players had formed. They proceeded to drop Malone for a 15­yard loss. On the n!!x~ play, a reverse by Flanner was stopped for another 10-yard loss by Tom Meagher and Steve Hagnell. Flanner, as result of Alumni's defensive play, punted the ball. 
On its second series, Alumni was 
halted in four plays as defensive lineman Greg Smith made two key tackles. Flanner regained possession of the ball and used a bit of trickery to sustain a long drive. On a founh and seven, Malone dropped back to punt but instead threw a 20-yard 1strike for a first down. Following 
I this, Jim Kelly ran for 1 5 yards. Inside the Alumni 20-yard line, Kelly looked as though he had broken free for a touchdown on this run, but Alumni linebacker Mike Gibbs dove and made a touchdown saving tackle, a tackle that would prove im­ponant to the final outcome of the game. The Alumni defense buckled up and, a few plays after, nose tackle Jim Gero sacked Bridgeman for a 12­yard loss. On the next play, a Flanner pass was batted to the ground en­ding the drive and the half. 
Alumni player John Puetz thought that the Alumni team did not play up to Its capability in the first half. On the other hand, Flanner coach Joe Milkovich thought that Flanner played well but did not capitalize on its opponunities. 
see ALUMNI, page 7 








