Israeli raid -page 5 
VOL XX, NO. l!i till' indqwmknt ~tlldl'nl Ill'\\ ~papt-r ~l'n ing notrt dame and ~ailll mar~·~ WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1985 
Cardinals defend, define Catholic social teaching 
own way. Some: of them will carry a 
HPC discusses campus leader conference; 
the upcoming Extraordinary Synod  toral  Constitution  In  length,  par­ development, becoming  . . .  the  The Church is a major force ofSO·  
By TIIERESA GUARINO  of bishops which convenes Nov. 25  ticularly  its  role  in  the  social  starting point for a new process of  cial teachings in the world, accord·  
Saint Mary's Executive Editor  in Rome. The synod, called by Pope  ministry of the Church. Bernardin  growth."  ing to Bernardin, and should avoid  
John Paul II, will assess the effects of  focused  on  three  themes  while  Bernardin called the Pastoral Con­ "retreating  from  engaged  public  
The ongoing defense of human dignity through the social teachings  Vatican II on the modern Church. Bernardin and O'Connor, perhaps  speaking: Vatican II as the source of the constitution, the content and  stitution "one of the key texts of the Council" and said its contribution to  ministry." U.S. bishops have adopted a theme  
ofthe Church was the central theme of a discussion yesterday in Was­ the two Churchmen  most prominent in America, were  style of the document, and the con­sequences of the constitution in the  the Church has been threefold: "in theological style, ecclesiological  of dialogue with the world which operates on two levels, said Bernar­ 
hington Hall byJoseph Cardinal Ber­nardin ofChicago, andJohn Cardinal  invited to Notre Dame by the Law School's Thomas J. and Alberta  ministry of the U.S. bishops, includ­ing their recent pastoral letters on  substance and pastoral spirit." In explaining the methodology of  din. "First, the bishops take positions on a wide range of social issues," he  
O'Connor of New York.  White Center on Law and Govern·  peace and the economy.  the constitution, Bernardin said that  said.  "Second,  this  method  of  
"The Pastoral Constitution ( ofthe  ment.  Douglas Kmiec, director of  Bernardin pointed out a pattern  all theological  assessments of the  dialogue has been at the core ofboth  
Second Vatican Council) ... ties the  the center, moderated a panel dis­ Inherent In the council which he  past and present "should begin with  pastoral letters ... with distinctions .  
entire Catholic tradition's defense of  cussion  which  followed  the  car­ said  adds  to  its  significance.  "It  an evaluation ofempirical data."  . . between the moral authority of  
the human person directly to the  dinals' presentations.  (Vatican II) took Ideas from the edge  "Wben  the empirical challenge  Catholic social and moral teaching  
very  center of the Church's life,"  The cardinals were introduced by  ofthe Church's life and located them  has  been  honestly  evaluated,  it  and  the  less  authoritative  policy  
said Bernardin, commenting on the  Father Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­ in the center," he said. "It gave new  should then be interpreted In the  conclusions we draw."  
effect of Vatican II 20 years after Its  sity president, who called Vatican II  legitimacy to the growing edge of  light ofthe Gospel," he continued.  Bernardin  said  he  does  not  
conclusion.  "a milestone," and "an attempt to  Catholic tradition and also added its  Bernardin cited the drafting ofthe:  believe the method of the pastorals  
The cardinals'  lecture centered  understand  the  problems  of the  own content to the ideas and move·  pastoral "The Challenge of Peace,"  would have developed If Vatican II  
on the constitution (the Gaudium et  modem world."  ments."  as an example of gathering informa­ and  the constitution  had  not  OC·  
Spes) written five years after the 196~ Second Vatican Council, and  Bernardin began the program by discussing Vatican II and the Pas­ "Vatican II was an event which summarized a previous process of  tion before addressing meaning ofan issue.  the  moral  see CARDINALS, page 5  
Security boss  
leaves post;  
Rakow starts  
October 11  
By BILL HARLANJR.  
NrwsS14f/  
Notre  Dame  Security  Director  
Glenn Terry resigned recently for  
"personal  reasons"  following  a  
meeting with Father David Tyson,  
vice president for student affairs.  
The resignation Is effective Oct.  
10. Rex Rakow, assistant director of  
security, will take over the vacated  
position.  
Terry served six years as security  
director and worked previously in  
the bacteriology lab. He was a mem·  
ber of the South Bend Pollee when  
George Wallace, Martin Luther King  ·tbc ~n!Pftc t..rbco 
Jr. and Robert Kennedy visited the  joseph Cardinal Bernardin ofChicago, right, andjohn Cardinal  Center for Continuing Education. The cardinals addressed issues  
campus. · Terry has many memories of his service at Notre Dame. "The special  O'Connor ofNew York spoke yesterday at crowded Washington Hall. The two-hour lecture and discussion was simulcast at the  ofeconomics, abortion andothertopicsofCatholic social thought. Story above.  
ones arc: all the people, each in his  1  

~
long way," he said. ,In social and religious circles, 
j
Terry has developed meaningful 
relationships with many of the Holy 
Cross priests. 
alumni to help student leaders work better 1 
"We have developed fine relation· ships with other agencies in South the responslblities a campus leader the policy so that It prohibits having Jim Crandall, Stanford hall presi­Bend," he added. By scorr BEARBY should have. legal beer and wine bars for those dent, told HPC that the: University 
Terry's plans for the future in· Assisl4n~News Edttor Co-Chairperson Bruce Lohman is under the age of 21. will not allow a campus 21-Club elude opening "an investigative enthusiastic about the event be­Howard suggested that each which would allow all eligible: stu­agency to provide service to the Approximately 30 alumni will cause it will offer the opportunity to president ask their individual rector dents to attend parties In hall social community in areas of background return to Notre Dame this weekend have "open dialogue with groups If the bars are against university spaces. He did encourage: halls to get checks, common detective work, in order to help student leaders ob· which do not get together very of­policy or IfIt is just a matter of their together in smaller clusters for and spinolfs of this work," he said. lain a better view ofwhat their roles ten." Lawrence added that, to his interpretation. mixers among 21-yc:ars·old stu­'lbc:se spinoffs include insurance in· should be, according to Student knowledge, "this is the first time this An update was given on the status dents. vestlgations and some criminal Body Vice President Duane type of gathering has taken place on ofextra fees which some rectors are Lyons Presidc:ntJoanle Cahill sug­work, he said. Lawrence at last night's Hall Presi· this campus." charging for lost keys and D·tex gested gc:tting students to lntc:ract 
"Discussion ha.~ already been in· dents' Council meeting. Meetings will be taking place cards. Howard said he will be better by having more: events among itiated. My last day here is the I Oth, Included as a part of the weekend throughout the campus on Saturday meeting tomorrow with university hall sections. The: HPC concurred to but on the I lth I'll be working," he discussions will be an address by for any interested students. Hall officials in order to determine whet· developing a list of all hall sc:ction said. University President Father Presidents' Council Chairman Kevin her the extra fees should be allowed, leaders at Notre Dame: and Saint 
Rakow was hired in December Theodore Hesburgh, who will give Howard encouraged hall presidents since fines for lost keys are specifi· Mary's, so groups of studc:nts from 1979 as assistant director of Notre his views on student leadership on to bring as many potential leaders as cally stated in du Lac. He added that different dorms can get together. Dame: security and later became as­Sunday morning. they could to the sessions. Lohman extra fees for D-tex cards may Upcoming events related to al­sociate director of security. His Open meetings and round table said meetings can help solve con­technically be allowed, since fines cohol awareness were: given to the: prior experience includes two years discussions will be held in order to tinuity, the main problem ofstudent for them are not mentioned in du council by Alcohol Awareness Com­on the pollee: force at Indiana Uni­open up areas ofconcern, according government. Lac. missioner Fifi Paras. According to versity at Bloomington, where he to Lawrence, also co-chairperson for In other business, the council dis· Badin President Judith Windhorst her, a lecture: on alcohol awareness graduated with a bachelor's degree the event. cussed whether the alcohol policy sald the main issue is whether a rec­will be given by FatherJoe Martin at in police administration in 1973. He added that the discussions will permits open beer and wine bars at tor can create funds and spend them the Marlott tonight at 7:30. He: will 
help current leaders, alumni, and the off-campus hall formals. Some presi· at will. Howard will tell HPC the 
see TERRY, page 4 see HPC, page 4
administration get a better feel for dents said rectors are interpreting results ofhis meeting next week. 


Wednesday, October 2, 1985-page 2
The Observer 


In Brief 
"The Bomb" Is a fake hand grenade handed out for the worst question asked in a Harvard Business School class. Police who evacuated the building yesterday and called in the bomb squad after "The Bomb" wasfound in a student's mailbox had some questions of their own. David Moyer, the winner ofthe weekly award, said he put the phony grenade in his mailbox because he had lost his room key playing soccer and needed to buy a new one. The bomb squad loaded "The Bomb" into an armored trailer and towed it away. Things were straightened out within an hour, Moyer said. -AP 

TVparty tonight!  
TVparty tonight! We've got nothing better to do  Keith  
than watcb TV and have a couple ofbrews. -Black Flag  Harrison  

Of Interest 
The Charles and Margaret Hall cushwa 
Center for the study of American Catholicism is sponsoring a con­ference called, "The Culture of American Catholicism," on Friday and Saturday at the Center for Continuing Education. Martin Marty will be the keynote speaker Friday evening. In conjunction with this confer,:nce is the Great Lake American Studies Association program on "Religion in American Culture." The program sessions for both meetings begins Friday morning at 9. Everyone is invited to attend. -
Tbe Observer 
Teamsters organizer Vicky Saporta, the 
only woman organizing director of any major American union, will discuss "Women Workers and the Union in the 1980s" during a talk today at Notre Dame. Saporta will speak at 5:30 p.m. in Room 131 of Declo Faculty Hall. Her lecture isopen to thepublic. Saporta is direc· tor oforganizing for the International Brotherhood ofTeamsters in Washington, D.C., and is in this area for negotiations with South Bend school employees. · The Observer 
"Competency in Management" will be the 
topic ofa lecture byJohn Anderson, vice president ofoperations for the Presidents Association, tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's. The Presidents Association is a division ofthe American Management Association. The lecture is sponsored by the depart· ment of business administration and economics, and is open to the public. Anderson also wiU be speaking to business classes and advis· ing flculty and student groups during his visit to the College. · The Observer 
Auditions for the Showcase Production of "The Freedom ofthe City," a play by Brian Friel, will be held tomorrow and Friday. The auditions are open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. No experience or prepared monologue is required. Tryout times are from 7 to 10 tomorrow night and from 3 to 6 p.m. Friday and stu· dents should enter Washington Hall at the Lab Theaterentrance. For additional Information, contact the communications and theater office in 320 O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer 
The Thomas More Society of Notre Dame, a 
Church and social service club, will hold a general meeting tonight at 8:30. All are invited; the meeting will take place in the LaFortune Little Theater. · The Observer 
Rightto LifeofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's meet tonight at 9 for an important meeting. On the agenda are: plans for "Respect Life" week, upcomingfundraising and speakers, as well as the Annual March for Life in Washington D.C. The brief meeting will take place in the Center for Social Concerns' multi-purpose room, to be followed by a 30-minute film featuring Jack Wilke, author of "The Handbook on Abortion" and president of the The National Right to Life Committee. · The Observer 
A Health Advisory meeting will take place at the Notre Dame Student Health Center lounge today at 4 p.m. ·All mem­bers are required to attend. · The Observer 
Father Ollie Williams will be the guest tonight on "Campus Perspectives" at 10 on WVFI-AM64. Williams will talk about apartheid in South Africa and also discuss the Cardinals' talk held yesterday. Join hostsJohn Deckers and Lori Kluczyk with ques­tions and comments at 239-6400. · The Observer 
Toastmasters International at Notre Dame 
will meet tonight at 6:30 in 223 ofthe Hayes-Healy Ceriter. An induc­tion ceremony will be held. · Tbe Observer 

Weather 
Frost on your pumpkin ought to melt a bit today, as sunny October skies are forecast for the next few days. Sunny and cool today, with highs in the upper 50s and low 60s. Clear and not as cold tonight. Low in the upper 30s to low 40s. Sunny tomorrow with the high in the low 60s. ·AP 
The.ObserYer 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the studentsof the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( $20 per se­mester) by writing The Obse""", P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The 
A88oclatcd Press. All reproduction 
rights ace reserved. 
Design Editor................. Mack McLaughlin Design Assistant .................. Kathy Huston Layout Staff........ Russ Reith, Rob Bartolo Typesetters ...........................Jennifer Bigott Pat Clark News Editor....................... Bob Musselman Copy Editor .......................Ann Kaltenbach Sports Copy Editor......... Dennis Corrigan Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Alice Groner Viewpoint Layout............ Melissa Warnke Features Copy Editor...... Gertie Wimmer Features Layout......................... Carey Gels ND Day Editor........................ Diane Dutart SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle AdDesign ..................... ]eannie Grammens Jim Kramer Photographer .......................... Paul Kramer Pete Laches 



Cable television at Notre Dame: Cause for a TV party tonight? 
It is a typical Wednesday night at Notre Dame. All 
News Editor 
across campus, students are slamming their books closed, turning their calculators off and pulling the plug on their electric typewriters. They have logged a pact that cable television could have on social life at couple of hours of homework and now it is time for a Notre Dame. Willis was quoted as saying the addition of study break. cable would be "an alternative to the alcohol policy." 
Some grab a pair of stereo headphones and some He lat~r said it could be "the greatest thing to happen to reach for a slice of pepperoni pizza, but many others this campus in a long time." plop down in front of the boob tube to put their minds This is just not true. on hold for an hour or so. But instead of "Dynasty" or Willis' comments probably were made as a result of "Highway to Heaven," these scholars-turned-television­his enthusiasm for his project, and it would certainly be addicts are greeted by a heavy metal rock video. A spin a mistake to criticize him for them. It is important, of the dial reveals a professional hockey game. Fifteen however, for students to make it perfectly clear that minutes later Arnold while cable would be a Schwarzenegger fills the welcomed addition to this screen in "The Terminator." campus, it certainly is not 
Cable television at Notre the miracle cure to the SO· Dame. ciallife problem. 
Only a fantasy last week, Spending the weekend in the idea of cable television front of the idiot box with' a at Notre Dame has at least six-pack of beer would not reached the talking stage. At be a viable alternative to the a meeting last Wednesday, alcohol policy, and it cer­sophomore Vince Willis an· tainly would not constitute a nounced plans to form a radically improved social committee to look into the life. possibility of getting cable What cable television on television in student dorm campus would mean, rooms within the next three \ ( however, is a definite addi· years. Willis is planning tion to dorm life, like a nice another meeting tomorrow stereo or a personal com· at 6 p.m. in the student puter system. Life in the government office. dorms is not impossible wit· 
Few students would claim bout these items, but they 
that cable television would be a poor addition to campus life. As nice as the major networks are, the similar programming of ABC, CBS and NBC can get a little monotonous at times. After all, there is more being offered on television today than silly sitcoms and over· sexed soaps. Cable channels offer an alternative. 
But just how much of an alternative will students receive? 
There are literally hundreds of cable channels available for interested subscribers. Most channels, like ESPN the Cable News Network and the USA Network, featu;e popular and basically unobjectionable material. But what about networks which offer more controver­sial programs? What about Cinemax and Showtime, which mix soft-core pornography and violent films with their usual fare of major movies? And what about the Playboy channel? These may be the channels that students want, but will these be the channels they get? 
Another issue which must be considered is the im· 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION­
SAVES BABIES 
DancinK after 12!! I
HELP FIGHT 
BIRTH DEFECTS 

I BRING IN COUPON FOR 1 FREE DRINK I 
~-----------------------------· 

-SENIORS-
Explore your desire ---tolearn, 
---togive, ---togrow, 
___and to love with 
ss Associate Program in Chile 
A two-yearpost-graduate commitment in service in community lifestyle. 
For more information contact: 
*Mary Ann Roemer  *M. J. Murray  
Center for Social Concerns:  Associates Office:  
239-7949  239-5521  Application Deadline November 7th  

certainly make things more enjoyable. 
The mere fact that a student has taken the initiative to look into this issue is cause for enthusiasm. Addition· ally, the administration seems to be keeping an open mind with regard to cable. Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson has hesitations but offered support for the idea, Willis said. 
All in all, it is an exciting proposition. So if Notre Dame ever does get cable television, the first TV party on campus will be in my room. 
Thanks toyou... • it works... for ALL OF US unitedway 


The Observer Wednesday, October 2, 1985-page 3 



Study Help Program gives friendship, too 
ByJOHN FUSSA 
News Staff 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program returned this year stronger than ever, with 250 to 300 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students con­tributing to the academic and social development oflocal children. 
According to the program's co­presidents Debbie Doherty and Tom Pigott, campus awareness of the program is a result of the strong commitment to the program by those involved. 
In order to solve the problems of tutor absence and program disor­ganization that occurred so fre­quently last year, Secretary Martha Massman, Doherty and Pigott spent the summer reorganizing the program. They said they considered this year crucial for the program. The program's staff determined that commitment should be their most important priority. 
All volunteers are aware of this emphasis and most share the dedica­tion, said Piggot. 
Most problems stem from oc­casional absences by the children, very successful thus far, and tutor response has been overwhelmingly positive, she said. 
The 12 tutoring centers throug­hout South Bend are filled to capacity with both students and tutors, Doherty said, and with more volunteers and successful fundraisers the program will expand 
The program often goes beyond 
its one-hour tutoring sessions, the 
co-presidents said. They said stu­
dents and tutors often participate in 
skating parties, picnics, and movies. 
Sometimes personal relationships evolve. Doherty, while tutoring as a junior, developed a close personal relationship with the 16-year-old student she had been assigned. They grew very dose, and the girl often phoned and visited Doherty at Notre Dame. 
When the student ~carne In­volved in a complicated and confus­ing personal situation, she turned to Doherty for advice and comfort. The situation was resolved In what the student and Doherty consider the best possible way. 
According to Doherty and Pigott, with continued dedication and hard work the program will touch even 

The Observer is now accepting applications for 
Assistant Systems Manager 

This is a salaried position and responsibilities include: 
• 
Supen,tse operation of16-user Alpba Micro computer system. 

• 
Routine software and bardware maintenance. 

• 
Oversee operation ofllnotron 101 phototypesetter. 

• 
Monitor and coordinate typesetting staffand scbedule. 


w For more information or an application, contact MarkJohnson at The Observer, 239·5303. 
• • • Applications due by Friday, October 4. • • • 






TOYOUR 
wood In a communal crematorium. Ap-
Ready to unlock your potential? Then here are your keys. We're looking for delivery drivers with the ambition to advance through our system step­by-step. 
Call or stop in your local Domino's Pizza store today for more employment information. Who knows? The keys to your future just might be waiting for you at Domino's Pizza. 

Call us: 
277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
©1985 Domino's Inc. 
Doherty said The program has been more local children In the future. 
Safety Week at SMC October 3-9 
Spedal to The Obllerftr place in the evenings. The schedule evacuation. Monday, Oct. 7, Holy is as follows: Cross Hall, 7 p.m.; Tuesday, Oct. 8, 
The week of Oct. 3-9 has been •Tornado safety -A shon film and Regina Hall, 9 p.m. designated Safety Week at Saint discussion on what to do when the •Sexual assault -Speakers from Mary's in order to address issues of tornado siren sounds. Thursday, Sexual Offense Service will show safety and security at the College. Oct. 3, Holy Cross Hall, 9 p.m.; Wed­slides and facilitate a shon discus­
Directors in the departments of nesday, Oct. 9, LeMans Hall, 7 p.m. sion. Monday, Oct. 7, McCandless, 9 residence life and security have •Crime Prevention · Learn how to p.m.; Wednesday, Oct. 9, Regina, 7 planned programs which will be of­keep the things that belong to you. p.m. fered in the residence halls dealing Tips on anti-theft and security. with tornado safety, crime preven­Thursday, Oct. 3, LeMans Hall, 7 •Personal Protection -Learn basic tion, fire safety, sexual assault, and p.m. safety tips and ways to avoid dan­personal protection. •Fire Safety -A view of the film gerous situations. Tuesday, Oct. 8, 
The programs will consist offilms "Getting out Alive" with a discus­Augusta, 7 p.m.; Wednesday, Oct. 9, and/or lectures which will take sion of safety procedures and McCandless, 9 p.m. 

proximately 5,000 books written by tbe Oregon guru were burned after be proclaimed tbat Raj­
neesbism in Its present form is over. Story below. 

Rajneesh's followers burn books 
repudiate ideas and projects that he  clapping their hands to music by a  
says were conceived by Sheela, who  10-piece band.  
RAJNEESHPURAM,  Ore.  -Fol­ left with approximately 10 other top  In the 78-page "Book of Rajnees­ 
lowers of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh  officials.  hism," the guru defines Rajneeshism  
sang and danced around a bonfire  Rajneesh, 53, has accused Sheela  as "a religionless religion." The book  
Monday night  as  they burned ap­ and her "gang" of crimes ranging  describes the beliefs and religious  
proximately  5,000 copies  of the  from attempted murder  to  arson.  practices of the sect.  
"Book  of  Rajneeshism"  and  the  Disciples in the cult say they have  
robes ofthe guru'sformer secretary.  dismantled an elaborate electronic  Sheela, who reportedly is travel·  
The books and the flowing red  eavesdropping  network  that  In­ ing  in  Europe,  has  denied  any  
robes  of Ma  Anand  Sheela,  who  cluded bugs in the guru's bedroom.  wrongdoing while she was with the  
abrupdy  left  the  commune  ap­ At Monday's fire, Rajneesh's new  cult, which first became known for  
proximately two weeks ago, were  secretary,  Ma  Prem  Hasya,  advocating free love, gambling and  
heaped onto four wooden pallets  proclaimed Rajneeshism  dead,and  Rolls-Royces.  
covered with flowers and juniper  then used a torch to light juniper  Federal, state and local officials  
branches.  logs.  have set up a command post In the  
The  ceremony  in  the  com·  "Stepping through the holy fire,  commune  of approximately 2,000  
munity's crematorium was part of  stepping through the holy flame,"  residents to investigate the allega­ 
Rajneesh's announced intention to  approximately 2,000 disciples sang,  tions.  

The Obsener Wednesday, October 2, 1985-page 4 
! f 
~ 
r 
' 
r 
r 
r 
' 
r r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
f 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
f 
, r r 
r 
~ 
f 
~ 
more information on alcohol abuse. 

11-week management program iq training, general upgrading in the 
Campus United Way Chairmen

1983. department and an increase of stu­Rakow is a former president ofthe dent involvement. Bob McNamara and Mike Huber Indiana Association of Campus Law When he came here, "there were continuedfrom page 1 spoke to HPC on their efforts for the 

Terry HPC 
continuedfrom page 1 

Enforcement and a member of the about two students positjons. Now be addressing such questions as upcoming campus money-raising He completed graduate work at board of directors of the Interna­there are 35." "What is an alcoholic?" drive. According to the two, they ar~­Southern Illinois University and tional Association of Campus Law Another alcohol information ses­planning "to substantially top last received a master ofscience degree Enforcement Administrators. As director ofsecurity Rakow, has sion will be held Monday when Al­year's collection figure of $7,400. in institutional administration from Rakow has worked primarily "no major changes in mind. Some coholics Anonymous will hold an The drive will start following the Notre Dame in 1982. He also com­nights in his past six years. As assis­refinement will take place along the open meeting in Dillon's chapel. Ac­mid-semester break and will con­pleted the Federal Bureau of Inves­tant director of security, he ex­way, but from now until next July I cording to Paras, the meeting will be tinue for two weeks, according to tigation National Academy's perienced improvements in plan to re-examine the department." open to anyone who would like the chairpeople. 
Beforeyou 



a long distance commitmenl, 
makesureyou kn'!W 
what you're , .ng 1nto. 
IfFletcher Christian and Captain Bligh had You'll get trouble-free, reliable serv!cc. Immediate known what being stuck in the same boat connections-even during the busiest hours. would mean, chances are neither would have Guaranteed 600!0 and 40% discounts off our Day set foot aboard. Rate on state-to-state·calls. And operators to 
AMHf you're stuck in the same boat with a long assist you with immediate creditfor.wrong distance company that doesn't give you all the numbers and collect calling. services·you need, its easy to harbor mutinous So when you're asked to choose a long distance thoughts. company, sign aboard with AT&T. With Ah\T Long 
But when you pick AT&T as your long distance Distance Service, you'll never be left stranded. company, you know you're in for smooth sailing. Reach out and touch someone~ 
ATa.T 
The right choice. 
© 1985 AT&T Communications 





The Observer Wednesday, October 2, 1985-page 5 

Here for the show 
The media raided Notre Dame yesterday, cover-from Chtcago, New York and even Ann Landers sat ing the appearance by john Cardtnal O'Connor through the 2-hour program concerntng Catholtc and joseph Cardinal Bernardin. Representatives social thought. Storypage 1. 
PLO says 60 killed in Israeli raid which retaliated for holiday deaths 
HAMAM PLAGE, Tunisia -Streak­ing I, 500 mlles across the Mediter­ranean Sea, Israeli warplanes bombed Palestine Liberation Or­ganization headquarters in a Tunis suburb yesterday and the PLO said as many as 60 people were killed. 
The jets swept low over the coast to strike Yasser Arafat's headquarters only 12 miles south of the Tunisian capital. Although Arafat escaped the devastating attack, the Israeli bombs destroyed his political headquarters. his residence and the homes ofseveral PLO officials. 
Dressed in military fatigues and appearing distressed, Arafat and an aide inspected the damage and talked with the wounded. Arafat has made his main headquarters in Tunisia since he was driven out of Beirut by the Israelis in 1982. 
In Tel Aviv, Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin told a briefing the raid was to retaliate for the Yom Kippur slayings of three Israelis aboard a yacht in Cyprus. He called it a war­ning to terrorists "that the long arm of the Israel Defense Forces will reach them wherever they are." 
Although a caller claiming to represent the PLO group "Force 1 7" c'aimed responsibility for the attack In Cyprus, the PLO has denied in­volvement. 
Lt. Gen. Moshe Levy, Israel's chief of staff, told a briefing in Tel Aviv that as many as 50 people were killed in Tuesday's raid. Medical sources In Tunis put the death toll at 
CAC and 

Student Governmen 
present 
Black StudentsI Faculty-


Are they necessary? 
Given by 
James Stuart 
Associate Professor of Economics and Black Studies Penn State 
-------------.l&lednesday, October 2 ---------....:..~:OOpm Library Lounge 
Worry follows farmers to farm 'World's Fair' 
Aseoclated Pre• KNIGHTSTOWN, Ind. -Farmer Tony Cain attended yesterday's opening of the 1985 Farm Progress Show, but he was shopping for in­formation that will help keep him afloat another year rather than a shiny red new combine. "I don't have any money to make any purchases," said Cain, 30, who with his brother farms 900 acres of corn and soybeans near Brookston in White County. "We just have to make do with what we got." The Farm Progress Show has often been billed as the "World's Fair of Agriculture," and the director ofthis year's event, Kevin Wheeler, describes it as "a selling atmosphere, not a fair." Farmers and exhibitors, though, talk with uncertainty about what the future holds for them, and for many, making new investments isn't pos­sible or wise. "Our bank and several banks in our area are very nervous, not just about our farm, but other farms as well," Cain said. "This year we had to break even or show some profit or 
they  were  going  to  think  about  
closing us up."  
Cain  said  he  and  his  brother  

probably will show a small profit when 1985 is over, but he worries about 1986 and the years after. They rent their land, so they don't have to worry about mortgages, but the debt from their equipment and other bor-
Planes still 'safest way' 
Aseoclated Preu 

WASHINGTON While ack­nowledging problems in air safety, the chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board said yesterday that airliners are still "the safest way to travel" and the public should not be unduly alarmed by the rash ofaviation accidents this year. 
But NTSB chairman Jim Burnett told the Senate Commerce aviation subcommittee that the Federal Avia­tion Administration has failed to respond to changes brought on by airline deregulation, including the rapid increase in the number of small airlines and increased air traf­fic. 
He said FAA inspectors are not only too few in number but often 
Cardinals 
continuedfrom page 1 
curred. "I am convinced that we 
express our gratitude for both by 
continuing the dialogue with the 
world, solidifying the social ministry 
in the Church, and stating publicly .. 
. on a range of social issues which 
bear upon the human dignity of the 
person." 
Bernardin turned the discussion 
over to O'Connor, who built on the 
topic ofpastoral letter methodology 
by speaking on and from the 
development of the second draft of 
the pastoral on the economy. 
O'Connor began by telling the audience about his recent visits to poverty-stricken Ethiopia, Nicaragua, and the Dominican Republic, which led to a passage in the bishops' letter: "the tenets of Chuch teaching take on new morality when we see poverty in our world." 
A precipitating factor of the pas­toral on the economy was a sermon by the pope in Yankee Stadium in 1979, when he said, "riches and freedom create a special obligation and a special dignity ofevery human person." 
"We're not trying to indict the wealthy for being wealthy," he said. "Christ demands attention to the poor that is more than token." 
O'Connor explained the develop­ment of the first draft of the letter, saying that the model for the pas-rowing has built steadily for two or three years, he said. Combine that with a surplus ofcrops and declining prices, and he wonders what field he'll be in five or 10 years from now, hesah:l. 
"The small farmer won't be around someday," Cain said. "Sometimes you can't get to sleep at night because you're thinking about it." 
Jim Lacina, Massey-Ferguson Inc.'s product marketing manager for tractors, was more upbeat about the crowd's attitude as curious farmers examined the company's new rotary combine, which lists for more than 1118,000 and costs anot­her 130,000 to outfit for the farm fields. 
"It's not a negative attitude, and that's a positive development in it· self," Lacina said. "I guess they're shopping and looking for something to break here (for the better) in the future. 
"There are some very interested people. The majority of shoppers just are seeing what's out there so they can keep up with the industry," Lacina said. 
The show, whose site alternates between Illinois, Indiana and Iowa, is being held on two farms just west of Knightstown and north ofU.S. 40. It drew an estimated 70,000 people yesterday, and organizers have predicted a total attendance near 300,000 before its end tomorrow. 
have "a very gentlemenly" relation­ship with the airlines they are supposed to monitor. Breakdowns in communications and coordina­tion among air traffic controllers, especially in towers ofbusy airports, also remain "very disturbing," he said. 
The hearing was called to ex­amine a variety of alr safety issue against a backdrop of an unprece­dented string of airline accidents worldwide that has claimed more than 1,600 lives this year. 
Asked whether air travel was safe, Burnett, whose agency investigates airline accidents, replied: "I don't think there's any basis for the avia­tion consumer to be alarmed over a degradation ofsafety." 
toral on peace was used. Interviews were conducted with experts, and "we produced an imperfect docu­ment . . . and pleaded for honest responses to it." 
The bishops received I0,000 pages of response, "generally most supportive, and recognizing the need for something to be done." · 
The second draft of the letter will not be released until Oct. 7, but O'Connor quoted parts of It, saying it "looked at the broadest spectrum ofproposals." 
O'Connor said the best moral judgments of the bishops said that the positions of the letter "deserve deference, sincere study, contribu­tions by readers, and perhaps rejec­tion ..." 
"But they plead for a hearing, a reading and praying," he continued. 
There are five chapters to the second draft of the letter, with topics including: The Church and. the future of the U.S. economy, Christian vocation in the world today, right to life, labor unions, un­employment, minorities and poverty. 
O'Connor ended by stressing the Importance of the Church teachings in the world. "The ministry of the Church has given firsthand knowledge ofhopes and struggles of all in the world," he said. 
"It is our commitment, our hope, and our dream to do what we pos­sibly can do to bring about for all people what we call the American dream," he continued, calling for a "plea for love" to bring this about. 

about 30 and said about 100 were injured. Israel has bombed guerrilla bases 

pl~es bombed an Iraqi nuclear reactor near Baghdad. Israel also mounted the airborne mission in 1976 and rescued hostages held at Entebbe airport in Uganda. 
Tuesday's raid provoked expres­sions of anger from other Arab countries and Tunisia called for ac­tion by the U.N. Security Council. 
In Washington, the Reagan ad­ministration suggested it considered the raid an act ofself-defense. 
State Department spokesman Charles Redman said, "As a matter of principle, it is our view that it is legitimate self defense to respond appropriately to acts of terrorism." But he said the administration did not have all the facts. 
Redman denied a report by Libyan radio that the Israeli planes were launched from an American aircraft carrier and said the United States was not informed before the raid. 
Israeli officials would not say how many or what kind of planes were involved in the raid, but Israeli military sources said the aircraft were refueled over the Mediter­ranean during their 3,000-mile mis­sion. 
Witnesses in Hamam Plage said they saw four jets conduct bombing runs. One PLO spokesman said six Phantom jets were involved while another PLO spokesman mentioned eight jets. The Israeli arsenal con­tains Phantom jets, but also more modern F-16 and D-15 warplanes. 
The only target missed in the raid was the PLO's communications center, but there was a large bomb crater nearby. 

View~_o_i_n__t________
w_ed-ne-sd-ay_.o_ct-ob-er-2._19-85-p-ag_e6 
' 

r ~ People should consider the implication of labels 

The latest movement in Washington has set its sights on rating rock music lyrics. I do not think this is right and I felt compelled to urge all open-minded persons to seriously consider the implications of this new movement to "control" rock lyrics. 
Tim Adams 

guest column 
First, what the Parent's Music Resource Center is asking the record industry to do is akin to asking it to cut off its own right arm. The Resource Center demands that all records contain some sort universal ratings code. Okay so who is going to rate the records? There are approximately 2,500 al­bums released a year with an average of say, nine or ten on each one. That works out to about 25,000 songs a year which need to be judged as "X," "R," "PG," or whatever; and the 
r judging process can be nothing but com-
r 
pletely subjective when it comes to songs with innuendos. Mandyck compared this sys­tem to that used by the Motion Picture As­sociation of America. There are only about 325 rums rated each year. The Resource Center wants this system to be performed voluntarily by the recording industry, which is an expensive and time consuming process in itself. 
Second, the Resource Center also demands that lyrics be printed on the outside jacket ofa record, so that parents can "approve" of what their child buys. This is ridiculous. Record labels do not have control over lyrics and whether or not they can be printed; the publishing companies do.Just look on any old record with lyrics included and see where it reads, "All lyrics reprinted with permission." )ust getting lyrics printed is a logistical mess of red tape. 
Third, the Resource Center want record labels to make lyrics available to radio sta­tions, so that they can decide whether or not to play the songs. Again, another costly and ineffective move; the FCC already regulates what can and cannot be said over the airwaves. If your child can detect innuendos in Sheena Easton's "Sugar Walls," then he or she is past being affected by such lyrics. Un­less, ofcourse, you have neglected to instill in your child a sense of what is right or wrong, normal or perverse. Ifa child has been taught these things at an early age, then he or she should not be swayed by cuss words or whatever. The same thing applies to Prince's much cited "Darling Nikki." If a child knows what "masturbating" means, then he or she should recognize that it is something normal. The more you hide things from children, the more they are going to want to find out about them. 
Last, and most importantly, I think what the Resource Center wantsis censorship, and that scares the hell out ofme. Ifa record is given an "R" rating, for example, radio stations might make it a policy never to play anything from it. 
r 
r P.O.Box Q 
Faulty analysis made in Safranek's column 
DearEditor: 

I lament with Stephen Safranek's view in his column on Sept.30, that the Sacrament of Penance is a neglected celebrationin this time of the Church's life, but I lament even more his mistaken theology about the sacrament and his half-hearted analysis ofits demise. 
Among his mistakes are the following. First, Lent is not "the time offasting and preparation in anticipation ofChrist)esus's resurrection;" it is a season of baptismal renewal for the Christian people in light ofthe resurrection of Christ which has already occurred. 
Further, we cannot "make sacrifices to God in reparation" for our sins, because nothing we do can influence God's intention of salva­tion for us; we can only accept and rejoice in his gracious gift of mercy. Christ gave the Church no "explicit admonition" to institute Penance; the Church has simply extended Christ's mercy and forgiveness in its mission (lnd sacramental practice. 
Finally, Penance is not the "Sacrament of Reconciliation;" it is one ofat.least three such sacraments, joined with Baptism and yes, the Eucharist. 
These mistakes of the first two paragraphs aside, Safranek's hope in the future ofPenance would have been better served if he had spoken with Stacy Bonanni, whose column followed his, rather than reflecting on the half­hour confessions of nuns. (Did he ever con­sider that the priest may have been brow-beating the woman?) Bonanni's call to justice, that is, the restoration of right relationships in Christ, is the key to the revitalization ofPenance in the Church's life. 
The core of the celebration of Penance is that our commitment to right our wrong relationships with our sisters and brothers in the Church, in the world, with nature and with God, is met with God's gifts ofmercy and forgiveness. It is a celebration of God's ever­lasting love and the beginning ofour renewed life in Christ. Penance is nothing more -and nothing less -than recommitting ourselves to the life and responsibilities of our baptism into Christ. 
The renewal of Penance, then, will depend less on meditating about the confessions of nuns, and more on meditating about the Gospel of Christ which points us in the ways of justice and peace with our sisters and brot­hers, and thus with our God. 
RobertKennedy Notre Dame graduate student 

Separate schools enjoy unique opportunities 
DearEditor: 
In light of recent discussion of who's who, and what's what, we decided to write a letter. To begin, we must say that Notre Dame stu­dents are Notre Dame students, and Saint Mary's students are Saint Mary's students. We have a lot to be proud ofas individual schools and as a community. We all should be thankful that we have advantages of both a small col­lege and a large university. 
We are one community of two schools which has clubs, plays, workshops, fundraisers, masses, classes, choirs and social events together. While we are not one school, we have unique opportunities ofbeing able to share these strengths and capabilities toget­her and grow with them. 
There always will be disagreements over who's who and what's what, but we think it is best to remember that we are very lucky to have the benefits ofeach school. 
What more can we say? 
Anne Marie Kollman Student Body President Saint Mary's BillHealy StudentBody President Notre Dame 
Ann Pettifer thanked for expression of views 
DearEditor: 
Thank you, Ann Pettifer, once again for a fine letter to the editor. I am glad to see that The Observer continues to provide a place for people to express issues of injustice. Your revelatory denouncement of patriarchy and sexism is one that is most welcome and must be heard by all. 
Although your critique may be uncom­fortable for some to hear, for many more it is refreshing and inspiring. I believe that you, as the first woman student here at Notre Dame, have been a good role model for other women here. I hope University members can 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
l/5TCNTOM8, 
OPE3N YOUR. eY&s, 6Va?.YON8! 
IXJN'T 8£SO 
A PR.OPHH 
5UR&. THATMAN

rr..IJI"'-'-' I~ TIM&7D~P 
8Y 1989, ONE-HALFOFAU­
WITHOUT 
COUWBE.IN

7H& 81GGCST fR£& WNOIER. 
REVENUES WIU 88 USE."C? 
HONOR. 
C1JNGRESS IN

&V&R 70 BRJJNG-1 IN 
TO PAY/~ON THe 
I TWO YeARS.

TH& fA/HIT£ HOU58! 
OEFICIT! lA/& TA)(£3.5/ 
I
I 

···········t,r/ 
Big record chain stores like Musicland might refuse to stock records with "bad" ratings. That is censorship. Okay so you say, "Well, the artists just have to learn not to put any of­fensive material on an album." What happens to freedom ofexpression, or artistic integrity? They are thrown out the window, just be­cause a group of well-connected Washington women decide they do not like what Judas Priest said or what Prince did on stage. 
It is interesting to note that the Resource Center does have some power to force the Recording Association of America to bend, simply because the husbands of the Resource Center members, some ofwhom are congres­smen, can veto the Recording Association's proposed law to issue a tax on blank tape sales if they do not conform. The Recording As­sociation is damned if they do, and damned if they don't. 
Ah, ain't that America. 

Tim Adams is a sophomore accounting major atNotre Dame. 
recognize your leadership and respond to your challenge to speak out against injustice. 
Mary Ellen Sheehan Notre Dame graduate student 
Help Mexic~ City begin to pick up the pieces 
DearEditor: 

Mexico City is a city of hope, brotherhood and solidarity. Every citizen is giving his/her best to help save lives, give shelter, feed and clothe those that were hurt by the earthquakes. 
The downtown area of the city was very badly hurt (less than one-sixth of the metropolitan area). The majority of the build­ings that collapsed were offices, and because of the hour, many people were in them. 
The proportion ofdeaths is very small, less than 5,000 lost lives in a city of 17 million in­habitants. 
I am sure that ifyou had been close by, you would be giving us aid. 
Because of the distance, all you can do is help collect funds to help reconstruct our city, our hospitals, our schools, our homes. Maybe the International Student Organiza­tion, together with some of the other clubs, could coordinate the fund raising. They can contact the Mexican Consulate in Chicago to receive instructions as to how to send the money to the fund for reconstruction. 
In name of my city, I thank you in advance 
for your help. 

Patricia Leon a; Macin Mexico City, Mexico 
Quote of the day 
"You're having a bard time and lately you don't feel so good. Sometimes you just want to lay down and die, that emotion can be so strong. But hold on -till that 
old  second  wind  comes  
along."  
Billyjoel  

"You're Only Human" 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager .. . . ........... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ................ . ...... William J. Highducheck News Editor ....................................Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager ...........JimHagan
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager .... ......... Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager ....... John A. Mennell 
administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
taries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy 
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Lipo Founded November 3, 1966 
Accent 
Wednesday, October 2, 1985-page 7 
Century Center shows South Bend not a cultural void, as sonte think 

upon. As Hedman said, "Together

Marylin Benchik 
we help to keep business alive in 
this city." 

features writer 
C
Another joint cultural event ongratulations! The Century Center was also betwet:n Notre Dame/Saint Mary's You did it! built to rejuvenate the core of and Century Center was the 
Your mommy and daddy told you South Bend, a city which needed to production of"Under Milkwood" 
that if you worked real hard some attract more conventions. The city four years ago. This experience 
day you'd be able to attend a good, has a historic Studebaker collection gave the students the unique ex­
competitive college like Notre that was in "virtual mothballs," said perience of performing for the 
Dame. Hedman. There was also the need general public as well as the 
And you were a good little boy or to attract visual arts to the area. academic community. The event 
girl. So now you find yourself The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's was, however, a financial failure 
wrapped in the arms ofwhat many community often deals with the because, according to Hedman, it 
consider to be the most boring Century Center for both social and was a more serious production than 
place on earth, namely, South Bend, cultural events. In the spring of the public demanded. The actors 
Ind. 1984, the combined Notre also had the opportunity ofper­
But take heart, and take it from a forming on Bendix Theatre's Thrust 
townie. This town isn't that bad. Stage, which provided them with a 
Michiana may not be the cultural change from the usual setting. 
and social center ofthe universe, Future events planned at Century 
but it is holding its own for a Center includeJ. Hartley Manners· 
metropolitan area ofits size. All one When there are "Peg 0' My Heart," to be presented 
needs is to know where to find the by the Acting Ensemble Friday,
conventions held in 
action. Saturday and Sunday. Also this A very good place to start is the South Bend that weekend a Sportsmed 10-K Health Century Center, located in Fair will be held in Convention Hall,
require a facility for 
downtown South Bend. The Cen­and a Running & Aerobics Lecture 
tury Center was the joint effort of will be sponsored by the Saint
elegance and variety,
two architects: the famed Philip joseph Medical Center in the Ben­
Johnson, and Notre Dame graduate Century Center dix Theatre. The Chamber ofCom­
john Burgee. merce will be conducting a
usually fills the bill. 
"Shaping Our Destiny" Seminar In the River Level Suites 1-3 on Oct. When it opened on Nov. 1, 1977, 17. The South Bend Civic Theatre the novel center had five separate 
---------------will be performing In Recital Hall 
buildings under one roof. These from Oct. 17 to 19 and from Oct. 24 sections include the Convention Dame/Saint Mary's production of to 26. The Midwest Pops Orchestra Room, the Industrial Museum, the "Camelot" was performed in the will be playing in Convention Hall Bendix Theatre, the art gallery, and Bendix Theatre. Some event for for a "Pops Laugh-In" concert Nov. the Great Hall. Saint Mary's Sophomore Parent's 3. 
"What was really needed was to Weekend were held there last year, have five separate buildings in one and numerous SYR dances are to be In addition to these special building in order to keep the dif­held there this fall. engagements, the Century Center ferent areas ofculture in one area," "We work with the Notre Dame sponsors a weekly White Water said Brian Hedman, the Century community," said Hedman. When Series which is held every Wednes­Center's executive director. there are conventions held in South day at noon on the Island Park. 
The center has acted as a catalyst Bend that require a f.lcility for Different bands play and you can for many other architectural elegance and variety, Century buy lunch or bag your own. developments in downtown South Center usually fills the bill. But Although it may not be Chicago Bend as well, according to director when the convention requires a or New York, or even Mishawaka, Hedman. Examples include the First building or area to accomodate a South Bend stlll offers many sop­Source Bank/Marriot Hotel building larger capacity, the Notre Dame histicated, professional and interest­and the East Race Rapids. ACC and its grounds are called ing social and cultural events. 
Front Oreo cookies to India Club 
Among upcoming activities are a celebration offormer Indian peace

Kevin Kennedy 
activist Mahatma Gandhi's birthday

features writer 
S 
featuring local speakers for non­violence. Other activities include a acred cows, rajahs and white society, a life that is as widely dif­Indian cultural music program 
elephants may be light years ferent from theirs as our Oreo sometime in October, and some 
away from life on campus, but they cookies are from the Indian speakers from India in November. 
aren't·as distant for everyone, espe­delicacy, gulab jamen. According to Varma, holidays on 
cially for the members of the Notre This year's club is actively in­the Indian calender are too 
Dame India Association. volved in sharing the unique Indian numerous to celebrate them all, so 
The club provides the needed experience with Americans. Thirty they just celebrate the major ones. 
opportunity for Indians and non­of the approximately 80 members Aug. 15 is the day India attained 
Indians alike to experience this ofthe club are not native Indians. independence from the British In 
exotic culture. The club hopes to attract as many 194 7 and the celebration is com­
The club was founded in 1966 to non-Indians as possible so that it has parable the Fourth ofjuly in the 

Top:Century Center's architectural skyline. Bottom: A performance help the Indian students at Notre ofGilbert & Sullivan's H.M.S. Pinafore. Dame adjust to life in American 


WANTS YOU 

The features department is accepting applications for: 
Features copy editor 
Applications are due 5 p.m. Oct. 4 For more Information contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-5313 

the opportunity to show the Indian United States. jan. 26, the other big culture to those who otherwise holiday, is called Republic Day, as would have no exposure to it. The the Indian formal code oflaw was 
~ ND/SMC clubs 
' The India Association 
Indian members also hope to learn instituted on this day in 1950. about other cultures. The most exciting events for 
Succeesing Hemant Tiwari, last non-Indians, however, are the year's president, is graduate student general meetings ofthe club, where Pushar Varma. Varma, who spe­delectable native fare is provided cializes in genetics, is attending by the families and hilarious Indian Notre Dame on fellowship from his movies are shown, usually in Hindi. home university. These evenings are designed so that 
The club was started by graduate persons ofall cultures can get the students and is still largely made up taste ofIndia so often missing from of them, although there are also the wintery Midwest. quite a few undergraduates, as well The club will have another or­as local Indian families, in the club. ganizational meeting in November The families give an authentic flavor to discuss future activities. Those to the meetings, with their native interested should contact Varma for dress ofsaris and Nehru jackets. further information. 
Sports Briefs 
The off-campus football team will have 
practice today and Friday. All players must attend or call Kevin at 272-0416 before practice. -The Observer 
The ND junior class will sponsor a softball festival on Friday beginning at 4 p.m. Teams will consist of 10 juniors, four of whom must be women. Prizes will be awarded to the winnng team, as well as to the team with the most creative uniform, and food will be provided for all participants. The S5 entry fee may be given to dorm reps or to juniorclass reps at the dining halls todayfrom 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. -The Observer 
The ND Cycling Club will be meeting tomorrow at 8:15p.m. in the New Orleans Room in LaFortune.-The Observer 
--~-­

Wednesday, October 2, 1985-page 8 
Bodyfat measurementswill be provided by NVA on Monday from 7:15p.m. to 9 p.m. at the NVA in the ACC. The testing is free for all students, faculty and staff. -The Observer 
NVA co-ree basketball rosters of five men and five women are due Wednesday, Oct. 9, at the NVA office in theACC. Call 2 39-61 00 for more information. -The Observer 
NVA racqetball tournament entries are due 
Wednesday, Oct. 9, at the NVA office in the ACC. The best-of-three singles tourney includes three divisions: men's, women's and grad­faculty. Call239-6100 for more information.-The Observer 
NVA volleyball tournament entries are due 
Wednesday, Oct. 9, at the NVA office in the ACC. Two tournaments­one for co-ree teams of three men and three women, and one for graduate student and faculty-are planned. Call 239-6100 for more information. -The Observer 
Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty colege footbell teama in The Aa­sociated Press poll, with fi,.t-place votee in paren­th-. thit aeuon't recorda and total points. Pointl baaed on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
are italicized. 
1. lowa(35) 3-Q-0 t, 111 2. Oklahoma (13) 1-o-o 1,046 3. SMU (6) 2-Q-0 1,001 4_ FIOfidaSt. (1) 4-Q-0 928 5. Ohio State 3-o-o 921 6. Oklahoma St. ( 1) 3-o-o 850 7. Michigan (3) 3-(}-0 842 B. LSU 2-Q-0 670 II. Penn State 4-Q-0 640 10.~ 3-o-o 6t6 11. FIOfida 2-(}-1 56t 12.-ma 4-Q-0 532 13. Nebrul<a 2-1-0 526 14. Auburn 2-1-o 482 15. BYU 3-t-o 463 16. Tenneeaee 1-(}-t 393 17. Air Fotce 4-o-o 282 18. Georgia 3-t-o tt6 19. Baylor 3-1-o 94 20. Teua 2-Q-0 64 

The novice fencing program will begin on Monday at 6:30p.m. in the fencing gym above Gate 4 ofthe ACC. Any students, both men and women, who are interested may attend the first session in athletic attire. Thereafter, practices will be every Monday and Wednesday from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. For more in­formation, contact fencing coach Mike DeCicco. -The Observer 
The ND-Air Force football game will be broadcast live Saturday on WVFI AM-64. "The Irish Today" pregame show begins at 1:55 p.m., and Pete Pranica and Vito Gagliardi will have the play-by-play at 2:30p.m.-The Observer 
Handball and badminton tournaments have 
been planned by NVA. The deadline for entriesis Wednesday, Oct. 9, 
at the NVA office in the ACC. Call 239-6100 for more information.­
The Observer 

A horseback riding trip is being planned by NVA for Sunday, Oct. 13, at the Happy Trails riding stables. Advance registration and payment of a S7 fee for one hour of riding are re­quired by Wednesday, Oct. 9. For more information,<:all239-6100.­
The Observer 
Please 
support 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
SOCIETY® 

The Obserr•er Notre Dame otfin:. located on the third floor of l.a~ortun<· Student (entt"r. a<T<·pt.' da~~ilkd adn·rtbing from') a_m. until -1 p_m_..\londa\· through ~riday The Obserr•er Saint Man's offin·. locat<·d on th<· th.rd fl,oor of Haggar College Centt'r. an·.-pts dassifkds from 12:.~0 p.m. until -~p.m .. Mon­day though Friday_ lkadline for next-day da"ifinb i' -~ p.m. All dassifieds must he prepaid. eithn Ill pn"m or hv mail.< 'harge is I 0 <Tills J>l'r fiv.-<·harac­
Classifieds 
ters per dav. 

LOST: Set of 15 keya on two intercon­Need RIDERS to COLO. fot OCT BREAK HELP ME! HELP ME! I NEED 2 OR 3 "SAINT IIIAIIY'I IECUIIITY PHILADELPHIA PHILADELPHIA nected ringa on 9/19/85. II you think that c.~ JOAN 2n-os26 GI<'S FOR ARMY GAME. MY 2 BEAUT!· THEY'IIE 10UNCOUTH I Ill" PHILADELPHIA PHILADELPHIA Oc·NOTICES you have found them, P'-cal Jon at FUL SISTERS WOULD BE VERY Iober Break but lign-upt Thu.-day Oct. 2n-8t71 or 239-6471. P'-leaveyour Rida.-needed:Anyone inter..,ed in ren­HAPPY IF THEY COULD COME TO THE 3, Lafortune 1 8:00 p.m. ?'a cal Dave
THERE WIU BE A GENERAL MEETING name and number. ting a car to go home to FlOOd a fot Fal GI<ME!! CALL TONY 1806 Graham 3270 ot Mike Poynton 266-6176 
OF THE NOTRE DAME CYCLING CLUB TYPING AVAILABLE Break cal Nancy at 4032 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, AT 8:t5 IN 287-4062 THE NEW ORLEANS ROOM OF
Found:wnatwatch.Found Friday night on WIU PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY BED 'N BREAKFAST, FOOTBAlL aouth quad between Lyona and Fither RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO OCT.4 GI<'S AND 2 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT WEEKENDS, NO & SMC PARENTS. area. Description needed. Call 3046. CALLLISAAT4401 1733/1757 TWO NITE MINIMUM_ 10 MINS. FROM 
LAFORTUNE DUES WIU BE COl­
LECTED. FUTURE PLANS WIU BE TYPING CALL CHilli 234-8117 DISCUSSED. 
CAMPUS. CALL29t-6152. :oat: Gold wateh:Pulaar,near Cleveland HELP! Nice girl with good -NEED USC TIX!!!!!! AS MANY ••••••••••••••••••ooooooooooo•o••••••••••....,,,),,,,,,H<<<<H< 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 Street.Contact Katie at 284-5t57 desperately aeekl ride to/from G.A./STUDENT AS POSSIBLE!!! WIU ATIN. SERIOUS RUNNERS TERRY Need 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE NEWARK/ No. Jeraey area Oct. break. PAY WEU-CALL MOLLY AT 2870. USC GAME. preferably in the Seniot teC·
FOX RUN AT PURDUE t0/t9 ENTRY Wotdproceuing FORMS IN LAFORTUNE ?'S CALL
LOST: dk. blue ~in aouth dining Willhare-uaual. Cd Pat 1267-6359. tion .... WIU PAY $$$$!!!! Linda V. 
• 
Cal Oolotee 2n-5045 hal 9/30 around 5:50p.m. contenta: Tl35 HELP! UIOTHIR II FOUND. (219)2n-6856. calculator, eyeglaaee and cae, pink Need RIDERS to BOSTON leaving 1ri FAMILY IIEUNION AT AJUIY GAllE. highligh1er, blind mulic, Calrinet reedl 18th, call Tom eve'a 267-6722 NEED2GA'I,11TUDENT.CALL 1111 . 1!1 REBECCA hM TO­KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
LOIT DREW3287 GUNDERMAN 
and mouthpiece, beginning French MEETING OCT 2 AT 7:00 AT COUNCIL 
Wordproceuing and typing tex1bool<, h. blue notebool<, two computer RIDE OR RIDERS TO U OF lt0/4 xt212 PLEASE HELP AN UNFORTUNATE her. tell her to. -BRIAN ATIENOANCE IS MANDATORY 272-8827 ditct. If aomeone hu it~ cal Sloan JAMES 
BUSINESS EXPRESS, INC. TALLY AWESOME LEGS!!! if you l8fl 
SENIOR whOM lamily hM never 1t1en at4553 or bring to 838 P.E. No queetiona 
Notre Dama!lll Do you have3GAsfotthe RICHARD, RICHARD, RICHARD: uked. WANTED: Uaed Telephone A.-.wering USC game? WiM pay $! Linda V. REMEMBER WHEN YOU WERE LADIES OF COLUMBUS Machine. Call Todd, 2n-264o. ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING WEDS.
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL (2t9)2n-6856. YOUNG, YOU SHONE LIKE THE SUN. MRS. COKER, 233-7009 SHINE ON YOU CRAZY 
OCT 2 AT 9:30PM 

TRY TO ATIEND OR CALL 283-t0921F I1G-al0 WEEKLY/UP IIAIUNQ aJIII. ticket (atud or Gl<)? We can make a deal­AN ANSWER WHEN WE'RE KNOCK· HEY YOU! Need caah fMt? Got a NAVY OIAMOND ... WHY DO WE NEVER GET 
ALL IIIGHTII WHOEVeR 'IOIIROWED' INTERESTED IIY JOIIDACHE TWO.TONE DENIII
CUL.AIIII NO QUOTAS! .NCIRELY FOR SALE Name your price (it -·thave to be lNG AT THE DOOR ... THE ANSWER MY 
JACKET FIIOII THE IDH'I
INTUIDTED IIU8H MLF· money!) Calt3731ate. FRIEND IS BLOWING IN THE
WORK!Ra' COAT IIACK ON t/21, I LEWIS HALL FROZEN YOGURT SHOP 
ADDIIDMD ENVELOPE: succaa, WIND...ITS NOT THE WAY THAT YOU
WOULD APPfiEaATE ID IIETUIIN NOW OPEN WED. THURS. &SUN. 8:3o­
PO ~X 47'0CEG, WOOOSTOCK, IL Wlahto ... SAY IT...ITS MORE THE WAY THAT
EXniEIIELY. I VALUE IT VEIIY t9n Oldt Cut Sup Brougham: 350 V-8: 1t:30
10011. 4 palre o1 Army GAa YOU MEAN IT... OAWN IS A
pa,pb,A/C, T-T opa,Cruilfi,Recent EagleHIGHLY AND ITI THE ONLY ONE I 

Wlahtolluy FEELING...YOU'RE HERE TODAY, NOHAVE TIL UIE.AK. 10 PlE.AU Jtlfl Sts, 100wCuatom Stereo_ Sharp! Robert I 
BreakfMtheadt • Juat wait! 256-9346.
Proleaional Wotd proceuing and typing. GA or .tudent llx tor FUTURE FEARS. THIS DAY WIU LAST 
DROP IT OFF AT 400 LYONS Olt CALL
Convenient location on N. Ironwood. Cal Lluorusc..­A THOUSAND YEARS IF YOU WANT IT 
28tl. NO QUEITIONI AekED. THANK YOUII 1965 CHEVY 11, a daaic. no ruat, runt wllt,.to.-p wedding Oct.t2 at Sacred Hewt. Cal 
2n-4220 lot appointment. call Chuck 1111104. TO...YOU CAN GET ANYTHING YOU Student photographer needed lot alumni 
WANT AT ALICE'S RESTAURANT ... ALL great, $2000, 233-7463. 
2n-5913 after 6. LOST: a RED women't jacket in the 
WE ARE IS OUST IN THE WINO ... AND YOU THINK MAYBE YOU'U TRUST NEEDED-USC GA't. WiM pay top$! Call HIM FOR HE'S TOUCHED YOUR PER­
library or in Culhing. PLEASE!!! contact FOR SALE: One 181 of atudant footbal HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY NAN! THE Robin at x4030 if lound. aeuon ticketa. Face value. Cal Randy 1 
MEXICAN AMERICAN GODDESS! 272-3856
LOST/FOUND I 

Al287-9196. FECT BODY WITH HIS MIND... GOOD 
LOVE, YOUR FRIENDS IN 342 &353! LOST: Blue 10 folder with lootbal ticketa TUNES AND GOOD FRIENDS ONLY 
I NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S CALL MIKE AT GET BETIER WITH AGE. HAPPY 20TH and licenae. Loti Friday nite at a good 15-inch color TV, 1 year okl $t50 mull To the cute darlc·haired QUY who came
LOST: !<a.-Oriv.,.. Lice...,. Robert 1605 OR STOP BY 304 GRACE, THE 8-DAY, FUZZ! Coover, 1025 Emery Rd., Lawrence , party with tome great people. I'm sell 2397632 or 27256t2 DIVE!! home wlme from the 'brare lut week·wil 
KaMa. 6F.I 175 tbe. Deep.,..te! II found THEOLOGY IIAJORt: aECAUIE OF you QO to PW'a SYR wlme Oct. 12? (was 
desperate! Reward. MBC,283-t762. 79 Chevet1e 4-door atick, e-c cond,
cal288-5447. R-d! HAVE $$$.Need 1 USC & 1 Navy tix.Calt Fll. FIICHEII'I ILLNEII, TONIGHT'S that 56 aurroundmg21, ot... ) 
LOIT:IIrown .IaMport ~Ilion­52000 m, $1850 muat ael 2725612 or 
Paul3467. FOitUIIIIEETINO II CANCELLED. 
eM)' nit. In Iouth Dtnl,. Hal. Contalne 2397632 THE FOUII QUEENS: Thankt for being 
LOll: blue back pack in aouth DH 9/24 -end at lunch conten11: canv. Con­I'M IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 ARMY BARNACLE!
keya,FNncll,lcl-.-ncl IR auch great hoe!-. I mill you! Love, v-lhoee, T.H. South T-lhirt and ........I'd be -"-PPY puppy If GA'S!! PLEASE CALL 284-4310. $$$ Steph 
you _.ld return them,no quallll­
lhotta,aockl and notebool< if found BARNACLE! pleue cal Kathleen at 3884 THANKS! ..ud.call KAREN Ill 28t-42a8 any TICKETS Thank You St. Jude, E.S . 
hour. 
BARNACLE! Swatch, Thankl for the aweeome tail·
PERSONALS
TO WHOM EVER REMOVED MY DENIM gater! Good luck thit year. Miu ya! Love, 
TOM-you better laugh thit time.
STOLEN: BROWN "INDIANA JONES" JACKET FROM THE LEMANS lOBBY Help I need 2 Army GA'a_ Have t USC K STYLE HAT, MY LITILE SISTER SPENT PLEASE AT LEAST RETURN THE 10 IN Stud and/ot caah to trade: call Ned 1043 "';;;;Qi~~·;;;~·~-;;i~~~-~~;;~;~~dJ~~i ATIENTION!!! ANYONE INTERESTED
THREE WEEKS SAVING HER AL­THE POCKET Cher J. Tu eeaur que tu fllle 'bou' ? K.
IN BEING ON A COMMITIEE TO
LOWANCE TO BUY IT FOR ME AND I NEED 4 Tilt FOR NO.UIC GAllE. andperfect, then be aure ofone thing: the RESEARCH AND PLAN A SPECIAL 
SHE WIU BE SHATIERED IF I COME W/TAKE21ETIOF2.CALL2...-rt1. It has imagined it quite a. bit better than 
BETH CONWAY-'You can't study efli· HOME WITHOUT IT. PLEASE RELIEVE ciently with bad breath' SAINT MARY'S CALENDAR PLEASEyou have. 
CALL: MICHEUE 4405, BETSY 5tn,
YOUR CONSCIENCE AND MAKE MY NEED 2 GA'S FOR ARMY. CALL 284­ANGIE 5157, KATIE 4420 
FOR RENT
LITILE SISTER HAPPY AGI<IN. CALL 5523 -RiChard BaCh, llualona. 
ODE ON A RAT WHICH WHERE t644 OR DROP IT OFF AT 169 DIUON 
FOUND NIB8LING UPON MY TOE (NO CU~STIONS ASKED) THANKS NEED 2 GI<'S FOR THE ARMY GI<ME. THAHKIIT. JUDE 
CALL SUE 264-54n. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR.
SEEKING FEMALE ROOMMATE AT HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATE$--Chile CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 3t N., t
LOIT CALCULATOR I LOST MY CAL· NOTRE DAME APTS. CLOSE TO -~-ENGINEERING SPAC---TUESDAY Slide Show/Diacuuion with Stacy Hen­CULATOR. IT'S A HP-11C. PROBABLY CAMPUS, INEXPENSIVE. CALL Mlc­I NEED GAa FOR ARIIY I UIC-272-BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. OCTOBER 8TH MAKE INFORMED ..-y/Ciauda Pomarleau. Monday Oc­
LOST IN CUSHING OR FITZ. IF HEUE AT 283-4027 OR SHIRlEY AT 1101 CAREER CHOICES (GRAD SCHOOl tober 7, at the esc !rom 7-8pm. 
FOUNO,PLEASE CALL BOB Xt743 234-6647. Help ut avoid the Beantown bluee. Give OR INDUSTRY) -SIGN UP NOW -
THANX. FREE SEX FOR 2 ARMY GI<'S CALL ua a ride to Botton ot vicinity lot October 
REGRISTRATION ENOS MIDNIGHT Work,. needed fot Ok1oberteet Beer FEMALE ROOMMATE OCT3RO Gartena
CLAYTON AT 1373 ALSO PY CASH break. Call Maria 4t74. 
LOST:One denim jacket with kinda funky NEEDED.NOTRE DAME Muat be 2t years okl!!! WIU PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR 2 USC Thank You St. Jude 
Greg Brady zippera up theoida. It -left APTS.112/mo.CALL ALICE 232-«J69. ATIENTION ALUMNI RESIDENTS!!! Thu,.. Oct 109-tam in the Engineering Auditorium on Wed. the 'THE FLING QUEEN' WOULD LOVE TO Free Admiuion into Tent 
GAs!x2280 

25th. PleMe cal Kevin at 2103 If found. GO TO YOUR DANCE PLEASE CALL Cd Fran: 264-5019 
IENIORt
WIU TRADE TWO TICKETS FOR

ThantcaH-. ASAP AT 264-4403 
C.S.C patio Fri. 
ARMY GI<ME FOR TWO TICKETS TO BEWARE T-WING of Lyona, F.O.A.D. is 

LOST: TAN WALLET AT THE LIBRARY, LSUGAME. CALLJANE2t4t. JENNY V. PLEASE GET SOME UNDIES HERE. AROUND THE 2ND OR 13TH FLOORS THE RUSSIANS ARE COMING! OC­TO COVER YOUR CRACK! LOVE, THE ON 9/25. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL JIM TOBERtt OTHER UCLA GRAD STUDENT DEIPERATEII Need one head football 
WANTED Poll-Grad. Oppottunitifll Day 
WiH trade two ticketa to Army game lot two 

AT 272-60t6. Need ride to o.yton any weekend. Call tickets to Miuiuippi game. Cal Jane, coach by Seturday!!! $$$ no problem. Call 2t4t.
Maria4t74. ALL THE SMIRNOFF ONE CAN HAPPY BIRTHDAY BRIAN! Bet you Father Ted Heeburgh for more informa­
ATIENTION DANA BAINBRIDGE!!! HANDLE!! OCTOBER tt thought we would all leave you alone after tion. GOT ARMY TIX? P/U PHONE & CALL
YOU LEFT YOUR SCHOOl 10 AND NEED RIDERS TO BOSTON AREA FOR your birthday buh in Livonia. Gu­VALl-DINE AT PANDORA'S ON SEPT. OCTOBER BREAK TO THE PERSON WHO STOLE MY egain!! Thankl for being such a apecial Quflltion! The mote you enjoy it now, the
TONY t893. 

23 AND I HAVE IT. YOU MUST BE LEAVING AFTER ARMY GI<ME ON BOOKBAG IN SOUTH DINING HALL­Friend. Your the Greateet! Have a very more you hate 11 later, 10 enjoy it later. STARVING. CALL MARY'BETH AT 288-SATURDAY, OCT. t8. liE? PAID GOOD PLEASE RETURN MY CLASS NOTES. Happy Birthday! Love, JuHa and Kathryn what the hell... Wotdl of Wladom from Phil. 
IIEIIE-EII I 5Sn TO CLAIM. YOU MUST BE DANA MONEY FOR M.S.U. TKS. NOW I NEED 
CALL PRISCILLA AT 264-5312 YOU PROBABlY CAN'T USE THEM, 
BAINBRIDGE TO CLAIM. 2 USC GI<'S. GIVE STEVE A CALL AT 
ANYWAY. KEEP MY CALCULATOR SUE KINSELLA HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 3318 BEFORE BREAK. WERE TALKING 
AND ALL MY BOOK$--FROM EVERY Feet don't atop her now ·caulfl she's only BERN, Reme--Be diligent th&lfl BUSINESS!
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. RIDE NEEDED TO MADISON WIS. THIS ONE OF MY CLASSE$--JUST PLEASE 19 and is cool lor cats! (ahe livee in the nexttwow-. -G.Q. REWARD OFFERED. IF FOUND, WEEKEND OCT 4-6 PLEASE CALL RETURN MY CLASS NOTES TO 2t0 best party room on campus too!) Love, PLEASE CONTACT ALICE 232-«J69. STACEY41t8 Need 3 LSU tix: Call Tom at t226 KEENAN. Y,O,Jand K Wilbur, God ol Jello, Pray for Ut. -G.Q. 
The Observer 
Canyouaffordtogamble

with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,orMCATI 
Proba01y not. Great grades alone may not be enough to impress the grad school of your choice. 
Scores play a part. And that's how Stanley H. Kaplan can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches test-taking techniques, reviews course subjects, and increases the odds that you'll do the best you cando. 
So if you've been out of school for a while and need a refresher, or even if you're fresh out of college, do what over 1 million students have done. 
Jake Kaplan. Why take! 
a chance with your career? 
KAPLAN 
SlANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAl CENTER LTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219l272-4135 

St. Louis Cardinals left-bander jobn Tudor took to tbe bill seeking bis 20tb win oftbe year last night against tbe Mets. Tudor 
Baseball 
continuedfrom page 12 
Angels 4, Royals 2 

KANSAS CITY -Mike Witt and Donnie Moore combined on a six­hitter as the California Angels regained their one-game lead over Kansas City in the American League West with a 4-2 victory last night over the Royals. 
Witt, 14-9, worked 7 2-3 innings before Moore came on to get his 30th save. Witt gave up six hits, walked one and struck out five. 
The Angels scored three runs in the fifth and chased Kansas City left­bander Charlie Leibrandt, 17-9, who had won four of his previous five decisions. 
Yankees 6, Brewers 1 

NEW YORK -joe Niekro teamed up with Dave Righetti on a five­hitter last night to give the New York Yankees their sixth straight victory, a 6-1 triumph over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
It was the 40-year-old Niekro's second straight victory against one loss since joining the Yankees Sept. 
15. He allowed three hits and one run over 5 2-3innings before giving way to Righetti, who picked up his 28th save. 
i 
The victory, coupled with Toronto's loss to Detroit, kept at three the Blue jays' magic number for eliminating the Yankees from the American League East race. 
Lookfor the big balloon and 
Jamie Cocanower, 5-8, took the find big grand opening savings loss. 
Tigers 6, Blue jays 1

* Stop In and eet a FR.E.E : 
DETROIT · Darrell Evans hit two home runs to regain the American League lead as the Detroit Tigersother elve-awa~s beat Toronto 6-1 last night, slowing down the Blue Jays' championship 
express. The Blue Jays, whose magic num­
Champs T·shlrt plus 
*Reelster to win: 
ber for winning the American 3 1 $1,00.00 lift certificates League East was three, started play several om lla1s with a five-game lead over the 
second-place New York Yankees. 
man~ other prizes 
The Blue jays host the Yankees in a
(no purchase necasar~ to enter} 
season-ending three-game series this weekend.
JO "/.OFF WITH ND OR SJICfi.D. 
Frank Tanana, 11-14, scattered 
...,.onf/aa2J nine hits, struck out seven and walked one in notching his third complete game. 
Evans' first homer, a solo shot in the first Inning, was his 38th of the season. 
Lou Whitaker singled off Doyle Alexander, 16-10, to start the Detroit third and rode home on Evans' 39th homer ofthe year. 


Red Sox 1 0, Orioles 3 

BALTIMORE -Bill Buckner, who drove in five runs, and Dwight Evans hit three-run homers last night to lead the Boston Red Sox to a 1 0-3 victory over the Baltimore Orioles. 
Buckner, who also had two run­scoring doubles, gave the Red Sox a 4-3lead with his 14th homer in the fifth inning. Buckner paced Boston's 13-hit attack with four hits. He now has 104 RBI and a career high 43 doubles. 
Evans' 28th homer of the season keyed Boston's five-run sixth. Buck· ncr and Tony Armas had RBI doubles In the inning. 
Both home runs came off Bal­timore starter Dennis Martinez, 13· 10, who pitched 5 2-3 innings. 
Bruce Hurst, 11-12, gave up eight hits, walked three and struck out five in eight innings. 
Indians 9, Mariners 3 

CLEVELAND -Andre Thornton snapped a sixth-inning tie with a two-run homer, and Don Schulze ended a personal nine-game losing streak with seven innings of three­hit pitching, as the Cleveland In· dians defeated the Seattle Mariners 9-3last night. 
Thornton gave the Indians a 4-2 lead In the sixth by hitting his 21st home run afterjulio Franco's leadoff double off Frank Wills, 5-10. 
Schulze, 4-9, had been winless after posting victories In his first three decisions. He struck out five, walked two and allowed only one hit after the fourth. jerry Reed got his eighth save. 
White Sox 12, Twins 6 , 
MINNEAPOUS -Apair of two-run homers by Ron Kittle and a three· run blow by Harold Baines powered a 1 5-hit attack last night to lead the Chicago White Sox to a 12-6 trash­ing ofthe Minnesota Twins. 
Floyd Bannister, 9-14, allowed six hits and five runs over 6 1-3 Innings to earn the victory before reliever Dan Spillner came on to finish . 
Kittle's 23rd homer, coming after a leadoff walk to Carlton Fisk In the fifth, gave Chicago a 3-2 lead and sparked a seven.run outburst. Kittle added a homer in the seventh to cap a three-run Chicago inning. 
The loss went to Mike Smithson, 14-14. 
Rangers 4, A's 2 
ARLINGTON, Texas · jose Guz­man pitched eight strong innings and Don Slaught had three hits and drove In two runs last night to lead the Texas Rangers to a 4-2 victory over the Oakland A's. 
Guzman, 3-2, gave up seven hits, walked four and struck out a career­high six batters. He left in the ninth in favor of Rich Surhoff, who got his second save. Guzman had not allowed an earned run In 22 13 In· nings before Dave Kingman hit his 29th homer for Oakland in the eighth. 
Chris Codlroli, 13-14, pitched the first five innings to take the loss. 
Cubs 4, Pirates 3 
CHICAGO -Leon Durham's tie· 
breaking home run In the second in­
ning andJody Davis' two-run shot In 
the fourth powered Reggie Patter· 
son and the Chicago Cubs to a 4-3 
victory yesterday over the Pit­
tsburgh Pirates. 
Patterson, 2-0, scattered eight 
hits, allowed two runs, walked three 
batters and struck out two In 6 2·3 
innings. jay Baller surrendered Mike 
Brown's leadoff homer In the eighth, 
then Lee Smith took over and earned 
his 33rd save. Rick Reuschel, who 
had won four In a row, gave up three 
hits, walked one and struck out six In 
seven Innings and fell to 14-8. 
Reds 7, Giants 6 
SAN FRANCISCO -Eric Davis looped a two-run single to center field In the eighth Inning to put Cin­cinnati ahead as the Reds beat the San Francisco Giants 7-6 yesterday to remain mathematically alive In the National League West pennant race. 
The first-place Los Angeles Dodgers, who lead the Reds by five games, had an opportunity to clinch at least a tie for the division title by beating San Diego last night. 
Davis had three hits, Including the game-winner off reliever Scott Gar­relts, 9-5, and drove in four runs. The Reds loaded the bases in the eighth on Dave Concepcion's single, a walk to Bo Diaz and a bunt single by Ron Oester. 
Tom Hume, 3-4, was the winning pitcher and John Franco earned his 11th save. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 2, 1985-page 10 
Senior walk -on 

Hard work pays off for Monahan 
By MARlYSTRASEN 
Sports Writer 

As far as raw talent is concerned, Notre Dame fullback Tom Monahan is not among the nation's best. But weakness in the ability category is not about to stop this senior from succeeding. 
In short, he's a winner. 

"JudgingTom on his ability alone, you might not expect him to play college football," says Irish assistant head coach Mal Moore, "but that's before you take a look at how hard he works and his dedication to the game." 
During his senior year at Arcola High School in Arcola, W., Monahan did not appear destined to wear the blue and gold for Notre Dame. Al­though he rushed for better than 1,300 yards and earned all-league status, he was not recruited by the Irish. 
"I was looked at by a few Division II schools," Monahan says, "but the offers stopped coming when I told them I was going to Notre Dame. I wanted to walk on. I wanted to see if I could play big-time college foot­ball." 
The choice was a natural one for the 5-10, 210-pounder. His father Tim is a former Irish football player, and his uncle Jim was captain ofthe basketball team in 1967. Playing football for Notre Dame was some­thing he wanted to do, and that's ex­actly what he did. 
"I was invited to join the prep team as soon as practice started," he says. "They already had looked at some films ofme and had decided to keep me around. (The prep team) wasn't too bad. I hoped to get my chance to move up when (Mark) Brooks and (Chris) Smith left. I knew I couldn't beat them out." 
Monahan was given his chance earlier, however, carrying the ball twice for 1 7 yards in Notre Dame's 55-14 thrashing of Colorado last season. With the graduation of Brooks and Smith last spring, Monahan is behind only sophomore Frank Starns on the depth chart this fall. 
Moore can only praise the efforts ofhis fullback. 
:·Irish hope to rebound ·today against Falcons 
ByPHRWOLF 
Assistant SportS Editor 

The Notre Dame soccer team will play host to Bowling Green on Alumni Field this afternoon at 4 in an attempt to continue the rescue ofits 2-7-1 season. 
The 2-5-2 Falcons are comingoff a tie last weekend with national powerhouse Akron, so they are ex­pected to be flying high. 
The Irish are coming off a weekend which saw an overtime victory at Wisconsin-Green Bay and a narrow loss at Northwestern. Today's meeting with the Falcons will be the fourth for the two teams. Bowling Green leads the series, 2-1, with Notre Dame owning the most recent victory, 2-1 in 1980. 
Overcoming the negative feelings from the disappointing game at Northwestern probably will be the biggest task for the Irish today. Notre Dame Head Coach Dennis Grace says his players are up to the challenge. 
"I'm convinced that this team has always risen to the occasion," Grace said Monday. "They've risen to the challenges and the obstacles in front ofthem before, and I'll be extremely disappointed if they don't do the same thing against Bowling Green. 
"The thing to do is not to dwell on the loss at this point." 
Grace was having trouble getting Sunday's loss out of his mind on Monday, though. 
The contest was played on what the Irish coach called "one of the worst fields I have seen in years." The playing surface was marred by rocks 'and clumps of dirt, and the field was particularly narrow. "The field was the great equalizer" that made the matchup between the Irish and the Wildcats close, Grace said. 
Not wishing to use the field as an excuse, however, Grace offered his team's overconfidence as a possible reason for the 1-0 loss. 
"At no time did we feel a sense of urgency," he said. "I really don't think those kids (the Irish) thought they could lose that game. We played hard and did what we could on a rotten field." 
The difference in the score came from Northwestern freshmanJimmy Muldoon, who scored with only two minutes remaining in the match. Muldoon was one ofthe high school seniors whom Grace recruited most heavily last year. 
His goal came on a breakaway which provided the Wildcats with one of their only scoring oppor­tunities in an Irish-dominated second half. Notre Dame had numerous chances at goalkeeper Bill Evans, but could not get the ball in the net. 
"It seems like every time we make a mistake, we pay big dividends, we pay a bigprice," Grace said, as he has many times this season. "But when the other teams make mistakes, we don't capitalize." 
The Irish were able to capitalize on their own good play Saturday, when they beat Wisconsin-Green Bay, 3-2, in overtime. 
Notre Dame got goals from Mar­vin Lett, Bill Gross and Martin Man­gialardi to notch the victory. Tom Gerlacher and Joe Sternberg con­tributed one assist each. 
Approximately 1500 spectators were inattendance at the homecom­ing game for the Phoenix. The Irish also were up against a referee whom Grace said was biased to the home team, and several Notre Dame players still were recovering from the flu which swept through the team last week. In short, the Irish faced "a tremendous battle," as the visiting coach called it. . 
Grace said the adverse conditions that the Irish had faced previously this season tuned them up for that battle, however. 
"We fought like heck. We did the things we had to do," he said. "We played a great second half, we really put it to them, and we beat a heck­uva team at their homecoming. Everything was in their favor. Everything was going their way, but we just beat them with a great ef­fort." 
Another great effort will be re­quired today against Bowling Green if the Irish hope to improve their record. 
AMERICAN
How you live CANCER may save your life. +I SOCIETY~ 
"Most walk-ons don't get the same work that the regulars get," he says. "When his opportunity came along, he made the most of it. He made himself into a good, sound football player." 
Monahan has carried the ball three times this season for a total of 11 yards. He's a quiet person, both on and off the field. When given the chance, he gets the job done. These qualities earned him the number­two fullback position, along with a scholarship last spring. 
"You have to like to hit," he says. "You have to abuse your body. Ifyou want to mal!:e it, you can't think about it. You just have to go out and do it. I don't have any special talents. I just go out there and do whatever I can." 
Irish fans can look forward to watching more hardnose football from Monahan for the remainder of this season, and probably in 1986 as well. He has one year of eligibility remaining, and plans to mal!:e the most ofit. 
"They've asked me to come back next year," he explains. "Right now, I plan to stay here as long as they want me." 
Moore realizes the value of Monahan perhaps better than anyone. 
"He's not gifted with natural ability," says the Irish coach, "but he's up there with the best of them in heart. You have to tip your hat to him." 
Consider it done. 

~~~~~*~~~****~**********~********~ 
~lE~~ lM lHHUJ~llEW 


THE BLOOD DRIVE WILL BE OPEN ON • OCTOBER 1 & 2 
10:00 AM 12:00 PM 12:30 PM 3:30PM 
OCTOBER 8 & 9 12:30 PM-3:30PM 
OCTOBER 1 5 & 16 12:30 PM-3:30PM 
OCTOBER 29 & 30 12:30 PM-3:30PM 
PLEASE MAKE DONATIONS AT THE UNIVERSITY HEALTH CENTER. 
QUESTIONS? CALL KATE CROWLEY OR PATTY CUNEN AT 284-5174. 
' /' 



-------l 
~4(Jt~C3L~------------------------------------·w--e_d_n.es_d_a_y._o_c_t_o_be•r•2•'•1•9•8•~---p-ag•e•l--1 
j 

Bloom County The Far Side Gary Larson 

~CI)tf€ 7() PIIN!la/ON NltTlCWilt. flll?f<. mel(£'Z 11(/l/t.(fl( lf)JI(-IIf5 
STTU.. IM/It.AIJI.e liT CAMf'(!f?Of/NIJ II 7/f . 
J 
ACROSS 1 Float 5 Tops 9 Veal source 

13 Author Wiesel 14 Himalayan land 15 Table spread 16 Noted violin 
maker 18 Gambler's 
mecca 19 Swift or Thumb 20 Elevator man 21 Cactus 23 Tern 24 Rubber tree 25 Cook in a way 28 Noted violin-
Ist Nathan 33 Moon feature 34 Andean land 35 Blackbird 36 Notion 37 Is overly fond 38 Champagne word 1-::-::-+--+--+­
Berke Breathed 
1-Af/Y! Jll1 CI1N'T PIIRK Y€R AS I WAS 1/l.fJ-1lJN ·K.v"er1He-SAYIN&•• TP 5N/ICK 1!1/1{... AN/J &tr Y8f {jfn{ ~ 1lJ 5{()f7 
PI/JPtiN' ON7H~~fiRS, 
~!V(e6 ~M 6/i'fiMPY.(I 
(!....:;,._-,) 

'6C(f~ 
Me fOI( A 5eCON{J, 50N. I 
39 Washington fig. 40 -out (made 
do) 41 Della of song 42 Noted violin· 
1st Fritz 45 One to follow 46 Actor's aid 47 Beach stuff 48 Fracture aid 51 Author Bagnold 52 Footllke part 55 Between hie 
and hoc 56 Noted violinist 59 Track shape 60 Desert locale 61 Ruin 62 "-Gorlot" 63 Musical Coward 64 Chew 
DOWN 1 Nathaniel or 
Rebecca 2 Choir voice 3 Solid 4 Darjeellng 
for one 5 Kind of servant 6 Desert robes 

©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
7 Foreach  
8 Incentive  
9 Undergarment  
of yore  
10 Fish sauce  
11 Horne of song  
12 Dunce  
14 Championship  
17 Drench  
22 Chicago  
transport  
23 Arizona river  
25 Lively  
26 Horseman  
27 Coeurd'-,  
Idaho  
28 Kind of maid  
29 Angry  
30 Kind of seal  
31 Already taken  
32 Saltpeter  45 Secular folks  51 Facility  
34 Jab  47 Symbol of  52 Noted Quaker  
37 Erasure  slowness  53 Wagnerian  
38 Globule  48 Mall unit  character  
41 Tears  49 Do road work  54 Weather word  
43 Wintry sight  50 Gonerll's  57-Paulo  
44 Star  father  58 Strain at  


Tuesday's Solution 
"And now here comes Zubulu. If this Isn't weird-middle of the night, and for some reason we're all restless." 
Campus 
•12:00 
P.M.. 4:00 P.M..-Arts and Letters Career Day, CCE -Lower Level Dining Area, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, All students invited to attend 

•12:15 
P.M.-Workshop, Economics Depart­ment Labor Workshop, James Stewart, Pen­nsylvania State University, 131 Declo Hall, Sponsored by Economics Department, 

•4:00 
P.M. -Soccer, Notre Dame vs. Bowling Green, Alumni Field, •5:15 P.M.-6:30P.M.-Economics Depart­ment Lecture, "Women Workers and the Union in the 1980's", Vicki Saporta, Director of Organizing for the International Brother­hood of Teamsters, Inc., 131 Declo Hall, Sponsored by Economics Department 

•6:00 
P.M. -Prescntadon%Rccepdon, Amoco Production Company, Senior Alumni Club, Sponsored by Career and Placement 


Services, For scheduled Accountancy Seniors 
•6:15 
P.M.· Meeting, Circle K, Center for So­clal Concerns 

•7:00 
P.M. -Prescntadon%Rccepdon, Leo Burnett Company, Upper Lounge, University Club, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, For 1st year MBA's ONLY 

•7:00 
P.M. -General Meeting, International Student Organization, ISO Lounge, Sponsored by ISO 

•7:00, 
9:15 AND 11:30 P.M. -SAB FUm, "Trading Places", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S1.50 

•7:30 
P.M. · Meeting, Notre Dame/St. Mary's Club ltalia, Haggar College Center 

•8:00 
P.M. -Play, "One Woman Show" with Murial Bach, tittle Theatre, Sponsored by St. Mary's College Student Activities Board, ND and SMC students, n; general admission, S3. 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Spaghetti & Spiral with Italian Sauce Fettuclni Alfredo Cheese Steak Sandwich Baked Chicken 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
6:30P.M.  16  MASH  
22  'fhrce's Company  
7:00P.M.  16  Highway to Heaven  
22  Stir Crazy  
28  The Insiders  
8:00P.M.  16  Hell Town  
22  Charlle and Company  
28  Dynasty  
34  PBA  
8:30P.M.  22  George Burns· Comedy  
46  Renewed Mind  
9:00P.M.  16  St. Elsewhere  
22  The Equalizer  
28  Hotel  
46  Lesc:a Alive  

10:00 P.M. 
!0:30P.M. 
ll:OOP.M. 
11:30P.M. 12:30A.M. l:OOA.M. 2:00A.M. 
Saint Mary's Baked Ham Lasagna Potato Pancakes Beef Stroganoff 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 46 Calvary Temple 
16 Tonight Show 22 TJ. Hooker/CBS Late Movie 28 ABC News NightJlne 46 Everlasting Gospel 
28 Eye on Hollywood 34 Film Du Jour: "Santa Fe Trail" 46 Prai3c the Lord 16 David Letterman Show 16 Allin the Family 22 Nightwatch 46 Independent Network News 
~ 

j j 
4 
4 
~ 
~ 
4 4 4 
~ 



Wednesday, October 2, 1985-page 12
S~orts 
Farley beats Lyons, Lewis; 
P.E. also remains unbeaten 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 

The mighty Farley flag football team returned to its championship form last week by picking up two big wins while outscoring its opponents 42-0. 
At the midway point of this season, there are only two un­defeated teams remaining. One is the defending champ, Farley, and the other is last year's runner-up, Pasquerilla East. 
There were three games last Thursday. Farley, after a last second 14-12 win over Lyons, continued its winning ways by trouncing Lewis, 26-0. 
Pasquerilla East opened up a potent offense to defeat its counter­part, Paquerilla West, 31-13. 
In the other game Thursday, the dark horse of this year's flag football field, Lyons, downed the always gritty Breen-Phillips, 14-6. 
"Last season, we did not have a single senior so we did not lose anyone. We have a great freshman crop that adds talent to our team while allowing the entire squad to 
Saint Mary's freshman Anne Pechous ( 15) drives past a Notre stay fresh," commented Lyons' Dame defender in action earlier this season. Andrea LaFreniere 
coachJeanne Luther. details the Belles' 2-0 victory over the Irish yesterday in her story Lyons thrashed Badin 26-6 last 
below right. night to up its record to 2-1. Lyons' 
Mets tip Cardinals in 11 innings 
ST. LOUIS -Darryl Strawberry hit a two-out home run in the 11th inning and Ron Darling combined with Jesse Orosco on a four-hitter last night, keeping the New York Mets alive in the National League East with dramatic 1-0 triumph over the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Strawberry's 28th homer, which came after reliever Ken Dayley struck out the first two batters he faced, capped a game otherwise dominated by Darling and St. Louis starter John Tudor. Neither Darling nor Tudor, however, got a decision. 
The victory in the opener of the three-game series pulled the Mets within two games of first-place St. Louis and kept the Cardinals' magic number for clinching the division at four. 
Tudor, who leads the major leagues with 1 0 shutouts, blanked the Mets for 1 0 innings on six hits. Darling shut out New York on four hits for nine innings. 
Dayley, 4-4, replaced Tudor to start the 11th and struck out Keith Hernandez and Gary Carter. But Strawberry hit a 1-1 pitch into the right-field bleachers for the game's only run. 
Orosco, 8-6, pitched out of trouble in both the lOth and 11th in­nings. In the 1Oth, the Cardinals had runners on first and secondwith two outs before pinch-hitter Jack Clark flied out. 
In the 11th, center fielder Mookie Wilson dropped Tommy Herr's shal­low fly for a two-base error, and Herr took third on a groundout by pinch­hitter Brian Harper. Orosco ended the game by retiring pinch-hitter Ivan DeJesus on a fly ball to Wilson. 
A crowd of 46,026, the -largest at Busch Stadium since aJune 30 game against New York, watched the game on a brisk night. 
The Mets had mounted scoring threats in the seventh and again in the ninth, and both times Tudor was equal to the challenge. 
see BASEBALL, page 9 
only defeat occurred at the hands of Farley in a game that is still under protest. 
In Sunday's action, Pasquerilla West rebounded from its defeat to blank Walsh, 22-0. Meanwhile in a close affair, Pasquerilla East defeated the struggling Lewis Chickens 8-6. 
In the other game Sunday, Farley continued its lnterhall flag football dominance by defeating rival Breen Phillips, 16-0. 
"Their offensive pass attack was awesome. It broke our pass defense. We contained Farley's running game and option, but their passing was great," said BP coach Ann Schwartz. 
The victory leaves Farley at 3-0 while lowering BP's ledger to 1-2. Despite the slow start, Schwartz is still optimistic. · 
"We will bounce back and see them again in the playoffs." Pasquerilla East upped their season record to 4-0 last night by 
defeating Walsh, 14-0. Just how good PE is remains to be seen, but the light will begin to be shone Sun­day. Thus far, PE's defeated op­ponents combined record is 3-10. 
Sunday, however, PE will play the talented team from Lyons in a game which may prove to be a good in­dicator ofwho will challenge Farley for the title. 
Before Lyons plays PE, they will have to square off against PW in a 7 
p.m. start on Cartier field this evening. Following this contest, Far­ley will be pitted against hapless Badin (0-3). 
The final game tonight will com­mence at 9 p.m., featuring Lewis (0­
3) versus BP ( 1-2 ). 
Two other games, aside from PE vs. Lyons, will be played Sunday. At 8 
p.m. Badin and Lewis will tangle while at 9 p.m. PW and Farley will match up for battle. 

Belles beat Irish 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's soccer team defeated the Notre Dame Women's Soccer Club yesterday afternoon at Stepan Field by a score of 2-0. The win was the first of the season for the Belles, whose record now stands at 1-6. 
With a minute left in the first half of the game, junior Mary Anne Perri scored the first goal for Saint Mary's off a throw in by sop­homore teammate Landry Clement. 
Senior Sue Schier! scored the second goal for the Belles three minutes into the second half. Schier! was assisted on the play by freshman Sarah Creech. 
Saint Mary's coach John Akers was quite pleased with the team's performance and noted that the Belles' defense particularly con­tributed to the win. 
"I really thought our defense came together today. We played with intensity for a full 90 minutes," he said. "I thought Gloria Eleuteri, Anne Pechous, Mary Beth Proost, Ann-Nora Ehret and Maureen Murphy all contributed to our strong defensive play. Our goalie, Patty Hatfield, did an excellent job also. 
"Sarah Creech started at midfield for the first time today, and she, too, played well." The Belles' next game is against Wheaton College Saturday at 1 
p.m. on Angela Field. 

"I'm hoping we can play with the same determined defense and keep working the ball at midfield," Akers said. 
Life is more than volleyball for Belles' Reidy 
Transferring from a state university of 33,000 students to a small women's college can be quite a culture shock as far as the people, the classes and the way of life are con­cerned. But Mary Reidy, a junior member of the Saint Mary's volleyball team, has made quite a habit of ex­periencing different ways of living. Not only did she make the big move from Bloomington, Ind., after her freshman year at Indiana, but she also has taken the Urban Plunge in the housing projects on Chicago's South Side, as well as spendingfour weeks as a camp counselor in upper Wiscon­sin's wilderness. 
An economics major who "never, never" wants to work in a bank like everyone else in her field, would someday like to help the type of people she visited in Chicago's projects. 
"I talked to people in the housing projects just to see what was happening in their lives. I talked about what the government was and wasn't doing. I also talked to high school kids about their expectations and aspirations. 
"There's so much that can be done ifsomeone is willing to organize it. I want to put my economics major toward developing areas ofthis kind." 
For Reidy, a native of Lake Bluff, Ill., one of Chicago's wealthier northern suburbs, the Urban Plunge experience last year really opened her eyes to the way people live right in her own hometown. 
Last summer proved to be another learning experience for the 20-year-old LeMans resident. Instead of heading to the big city, however, she went back to nature. 
After lifeguarding at a private dub for the first two months last summer, Reidy set out for Boulder Junction, Wis., for another eye-opening experience as a camp coun­selor for 13-year old girls in the middle ofthe wilderness. 
"I had nine girls in my cabin and I took half of them at a time on five-day canoe trips. It was a really good ex­perience and a definite challenge. It was also nice to just 

Kelly Portolese 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

everything. It was a big culture shock coming back to school and smelling ethanol when your're used to waking up to loons and bald eagles." 
On her second canoe trip, it rained the whole time, and in order to eat, they had to build a fire which consisted of burning birch bark under a tarp. According to Reidy, there were none ofthe modern conveniences ofhome available. 
"It shows you what's real in life. Going to these two schools, you sometimes forget about what really matters," she says. 
"The kids were really depending on you, not only to lead on the trips but they also asked your advice on everything." With only a map to guide her on the canoe trips, she 
admitted it was quite scary at times. "The big joke was 'Don't give Mary the map, or we'll get lost."' 
Although no official captain has been elected for the vol­leyball team this year, the Belles will be well guided by Reidy. 
Being the only upper classman on this year's nine­member team has put the 5-9 hitter in a position to take on some leadership responsibilities. 
"I'm very pleased with the leadership role she has just naturally taken over," says Head Coach MaryJo Lambert. 
"Last year I didn't voice my opinions. I didn't take a stand as a leader," says Reidy, the team's middle blocker and last season's most-improved-player award winner. 
"I have played just as long as the sophomores, but since I'm the oldest on the team I think more is expected ofme." 
Not only is three-fourths ofthis year's team composed of newcomers, but Reidy also had to adjust to the style of a new coach, an adjustment she gladly accepted. 
"MaryJo is a great coach. She gives her all and always has something positive to say. She's out to help everyone. She really cares about you as a person. And the morale of the team is much better this year," says Reidy. 
The decision to go to Saint Mary's was based on several factors, none ofwhich had to do with volleyball. 
"When I was a senior in high school, I vowed never to go to Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. I had tons of relatives who went to both schools, and I was just applying to a lot ofbig schools in the Midwest to play volleyball," says Reidy. "I was going to walk on at Iowa, but then I decided to go to (Indiana) and just play intramurals. I had put too much emphasis on volleyball my senior year." 
Reidy's athletic career at Lake Forest High School con­sisted of being a three-year letter winner on the school's volleyball team, receiving MVP honors her junior and senior years. She also ran varsity track all four years, qualifying for the state championships in the 800 medley relay. 
In February of her freshman year at I.U., Reidy enter­tained thoughts ofgoing to Saint Mary's, afterall. 
"It was a good decision. I liked I.U., but it was just too big and hard to make friends. You'd meet someone one semester then never see them again. I wanted to go to a place where you made good friends and kept them. I also didn't like the Greek system. Saint Mary's had a good atmo­sphere and good people," says Reidy, who was this year's transfer chairman on the orientation committee. 
With her family moving to San Diego soon, Reidy will experience yet another way oflife on the West Coast. And if past experiences are any indication, Mary Reidy will meet the challenge and make the most ofher situation. 





