Halley's -page 5 

VOL XX, NO. '50 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Disciplinary measures taken for off-campus 'disgraces' explained 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI Set~ lor StaffReporter  the senate. He said that tonight the Hall Presidents' Council will vote on  
an  amendment  to  the  student  
At  last  night's  Sllldent  Senate  government  constitution  that  dis­ 
mn·ting Student Body President Bill  bands the senate.  
Ikaly read Viet• Prt·sident for Stu­dt·nt Affair~ father David Tyson's reply to a senate resolution that n·­quested tht· administration clarify its policy regarding punishment for off­campus offenses sut:h as the Dillon Tailgater in Mkhigan. !·rom tht· kner llealy rt·ad, "Any memht·r or' the llniversity com­munity, student, faculty, or ad­mini,trawr can bring t·mharrassment or disgrace to the  If the amendment is passed by the IIPC then it will he voted on by the student body next Tuesday in a stu­dent referendum. .Junior Class President Jim Domagalski blamed the· leadership of the Student Senate for the lack of business at last night's meeting, after Senator Chris Abood pleaded with senate members to bring business to next week's meeting.  
llniversity hy their actions hy the  Domagalski blamed the senate's  
virtut· of the fact that they are iden­ leadership, namely Bill Healy, stu­ 
titkd as mcmhers of the community  dent  body president.  Domagalski  
.The University has and will con­ said he wanted Healy to bring new  
tinue to impose sanctions on these  business to the senate for debate. "I  
parties when their actions, on behalf  think  it  doesn't  help  when  the  
of the llnivcrslty, arc in opposition  leadership of this meeting doesn't  
to the values and principles which art: at the foundation of Notre  bring anything to the meeting," he said.  Closed out  
Dame's mission."  Healy said that he has his forum  Saint Mary's registration for the spring semester  pick up that last course to make their schedules  
In  other  business,  Duane  for projects in his cabinet and that  yesterday  at  Angela Athletic  Facility featured  complete. Notre Dame enrollment continues today  
Lawrence, student body vice presi­dent, updated the senate on the  the  senate  is  the  forum  for  the  crowds very much like this one. Students scrambled tofill the whitegaps on theirenrollmentforms and  atStepan Center.  


see SENATE, page 4
progress of the auempt to disband 
Salon makes Saint Mary's debut 
ByJACQUIE A. BRUMMEL The idea began solely as a hair cording to him the number one Neu•sStaff salon. Later Ronald Diwinter, reason was the basic knowledge owner of Haircrafters, asked that "there was adequate space for 
Saint Mary's students will soon permission to also bring a tanning the facility because the flower he able to enjoy a haircut or a tan bed into the salon. The idea was ap­shop had left." on t·ampus when a new beauty proved and one tanning bed will In order to adequately supply salon, liairl'faftcrs, opens today in be available along with all the ot· the salon with the needed amount the ha'it'ment of I.e Mans Hall. her beauty salon services. Ifthe use of room there were "fairly ex­
of the tanning bed is a success, tensive" renovations undertaken
The College student aJJairs staJJ there is room for an additi<?nal bed. at the hall. Some ofthe renovations
mcmbers and students expressed consisted of the construction of
the need h>r this salon. Haircrafters The response to the prospect of partitions and revision of the
was sdn·tt·d because of its reputa· a campus beauty salon has been electrical layout .
tion for quality work and friendli­positive among the students at Haircrafters will be charging
ness according to ja"Klll Lindower, Saint Mary's. Jane Shea, a freshman, S 1 '5 for a haircut and S4'5 for a per­
College business manager and con­said, "I think the salon is great be­manent. This cost is in conjunction
troller. 
cause now we can stay on campus with the retail prices in the main
l.indower said that in order to to take care of our beauty needs." salon and there is a student dis­
get the beauty salon on campus, count of B included in both
the College accepted bids from Io­The location at LeMans Hall is a t·al salons. logical choice, said Lindower. Ac-prices. 
S. Africa may deport 'foreigners' 
N. J. 2-plane collision wreckage investigated 
Assoclated Preu recovered, said Nabisco spokesman 
Melvin Greyson. 
CUFFSIDE PARK, N.J. -Inves­The jet's pilot said he: saw the tigators inventoried wreckage Piper Cherokee and the pilot of the strewn over 20 blocks yesterday and smaller plane said he was clear ofthe 
impounded air traffic control area where the Falcon '50 was recordings to determine why two supposed to be as they flew over the 
planes collided and crashed into two densely populated suburbs across New York City suburbs, killing at the Hudson River from Manhattan, least five people. said Federal Aviation Administration 
A sixth person was missing and · spokesman Peter Nelson. 
believed to have been in his apart­A New York City police helicop­ment when a burning corporate jet ter pilot who saw the collision es­slammed into two buildings here timated the planes were at an Sunday evening, igniting a fire that altitude of about 1,000 feet, also engulfed three other buildings. Craparotta said. The sun set at 4:4'5 Fourteen people were in the two p.m., about a half-hour before the 
buildings and "13 had time to crash, the National Weather Service escape," said state police Capt. said. Joseph Craparotta. The missing man was identified as 
"I was listening to the stereo and Abdullah Taha, 34, an emigrant from the next thing I knew my windows the Middle East who wao; sleeping in blew in. In three seconds, I was out a second-floor apartment he shared the door," said joseph Gramugiia, with his brother's family. 
29, whose apartment was gutted. The jet's pilot, Capt. Gregory Mil­
Associated Preu and disinvestment without having and to share power with the black "Red flames ... all red flames. There ler, 36, of Danbury, Conn., had regard for the detrimental effect on majority. were people all over the place." 
logged 9,000 flight hours in years of 
The government hinted two
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa · innocent people," he said. Three bodies were found in the corporate flying, Nabisco spokes­
The government, declaring that "Since charity begins at home, the months ago at the possibility of ex­woman Caroline Fee said. Ills co­debris of a light propeller plane
"t·harity hegins at home," said yes­government has no option but to pelling foreign workers If sanctions 
pilot, Allen Stitt, 30, of Highlands, terday it may have to send home give preference to the needs of its and divestment damage the which struck the front porch of a 
had 4,3'50 flight hours. thousands of foreign hlat·k workers own citizens as regard~ job oppor­economy and drive up unemploy­The jet was en route with anotht·r two-story apartment building ap­
proximately five blocks away in Fair­
if ~anctions force more South tunities," du Plessis said in a state­ment. Prc~sident P.W. Botha has said 
corporate jet from Morristown, near Afrkans out of work. ment issued in Pretoria, the capital. sanctions would hurt blacks within view. No bodies were recovered 
the company's Parsippany Ministt·r of Manpower Pletic du from the jet, which was owned by
South Africa and in neighboring
Business Day, whil'h closely Nabisco Brands Inc., but the pilot headquarters, to Teterboro to pick 
Pkssis denied a rt·port in an influen­countrie~. more than whites. up executives headed for Nabisco's
reflects the thinking of business and co-pilot were listed as dead. tial financial newspaper that the leaders, reported that the expul­The tiny kingdom of Lesotho, for Toronto office, Fee said. 'Ibe second government alrt·ady had approved 
sions had been endorsed hy senior example, derives at least 50 percent Each piece of wreckage was to be plane landed safely. tht• expulsion ofsome ofthe I.'5 mil­The Piper took off from Caldwell
Cabinet and military officials. An ac­of its gross national product from "itemized and tagged" as part of the lion hlat·k foreign workers, many of companying front-page editorial 139,000 of its workers who are reconstruction of the cra'ih, said Na­Airport but its destination wao; not whom work in the gold ami 
said the "mad and provocative a<·t" employed in South African mines. tional Transportation Safety Board known, said Craparotta. 
diamond mint·s that supply mudt of spokesman Ira Furman. One victim from the smaller plane
would ensure tougher foreign steps 
Zambia has endorsed sanctions,
South Africa's hard currency. against South Africa. Tape-recordings of conversations was Identified a., Lucia Nocha, '5 I. of But du Plessis said "contingency white other countries such as Zim­
between the pilots and the tower at Brooklyn, N.Y. A man's body was plans" were heing drafted to send Support for sanctions, even if they babwe and Mozambique agree in Teterboro Airport approximately believed to be her husband, ltenryprinciple but say their economics
home foreign blacks if necessary in mean increased hardship, are five miles away were impounded, Sr., based on an Interview with their tht• future. "This action has been viewed by many as a peaceful way of could not stand retaliatory South Furman said. son, Craparotta said. The third vic­forcc.-d on the South African govern­pressuring the white-led govern­African pressure applied because of The jet was equipped with a flight tim in that plane wao; presumed to he sanctions:
melll hy those who favor sant·tions ment ro mo\'C away from aparthdd recorder but it had not bet•n the pilot. 
---~ -­
The Observer Tuesday, November 12, 1985 -page 2 
Of Interest 
Three noted financial authorities are par­
ticipating in the annual Financial Institution Series which began yes­terday at Notre Dame. Sponsored by the Finance Club ofthe College of Business Administration, the 4 p.m. talks in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium are open to the public. Jose Fernandez, president of Drexel Burnham lambert Puerto Rico, Inc., will discuss the changes taking place within the financial services industry from the perspective of an investment banking firm this afternoon and Terence Brennan, first vice president ofPrudential-BacheSecurities, Chicago, tomorrow will explore the opportunities available after change. Brennan is a 1949 Notre Dame graduate and a former foot­ball coach llt the University. He is a director of the Bond Clubs of Chicago and the Securities Industry Association. -The Observer 
Senior Reflection Group sign-ups continue 
through Friday at the CSC from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Groups meet once a month next semester to share a meal and informal discussion at a faculty host's home. -The Observer 
Leslie Tender, professor of history at the University of Michigan, will give a lecture "Catholic Women and Their Church: A View From Detroit" this afternoon at 4 in the Notre Dame Memorial Ubrary auditorium lounge. Tender's lecture is sponsored by Notre Dame's Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. -The Observer 
That's Entertainment at Saint Mary's presents Brian Huskey tonight. Huskey, who presents a blend of music and comedy routines, also performs music by Springsteen, Jimmy Buf­fett, Jackson Browne and the Beatles. Huskey will entertain tonight in Haggar College Center's Chameleon Room from 8 to 11. Free nachos also will be served and admission is free. -The Observer 
The Thomas More Society will present "A Man 
for All Seasons" tonight at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The film is an adaptation of Robert Bolt's classic epic about Saint Thomas More's life. -The Observer 
Off-campus students can pick up their phone books at the OBUD desk in LaFortune from 1 to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday.-The Observer 
The Snite Museum ofArt will feature Douglas Bradley, curator of ethnographic arts, in its noontalk presentation today. The subject under discussion will be "Africa and the Americas: A Curator's Choice." Noontalk takes place from 12:10 to 
12:55 p.m. in O'Shaughnessy Gallery West.-The Observer 
The Progressive Musik Club will be leaving 
for Northwestern University to see Simple Minds today at 4:30p.m. from the Ubrary Circle. -The Observer 
Outto lunch?Avoid the lines at the dining hall by eating at the CSC tomorrow from 11:30 to 1:30. Donations will help a Viet­namese refugee family in the South Bend area. -The Observer 
Seniors can sign up tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. at LaFortune for the Tippecanoe brunch. The brunch will be on Sunday, Nov. 17.­
The Observer 
Weather 
Warmer but ... still wet. An 80 percent chance ofrain and afew thunderstorms today. High in the mid to upper 50s. A 50 per­cent chance of thundershowers tonight with the low approximately 50. Cloudy tomorrow with a 40 percent chance of thundershowers. High approximately 60. -AP 
Design Editor........................ Tom Small Daily Quotes .................... Tom Darrow Design Assistant..Jane Anne Reidford Accent Copy Editor..... .Eric Bergamo Typesetters................ Suzanne Hammer Accent Layout ................... Karen Webb 
Mary Ellen Harrington ND Day Edttor................ Ray Szafranski News Editor..............:..........John Heasly SMC Day Editor.............. Priscilla Karle Copy Editors.......................... Frank Upo Ad Design ...................... Sharon Emmite 
Dan McCullough Mary Carol Creadon Sports Copy Editor ........... Marty Bums Typists .................................. Colleen Foy Viewpoint CoPJ· Editor.... Sue Dunbar Maura McKeever Viewpoint Layout.... Melinda Murphy -Photographer............... Paul Pahoresky 
The O~rver ( l'SPS ~99 Z-·1000) is published Monday through Friday eXl·ept durin!( exam and vacation periods. Thr Obsc:rvrr is published hy the students of the l 'n1vers11Y of Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s College. Subscription• may be purcha...-d for J:\0 pt"r yt:ar ( JlO pt"r "'mcster) by wrninglbe O~rver. P 0. Box Q. Notre Dame. lndoana 
<6~~(> 
The O~rver os a mem""r of The Associated Press. AU reproduction roght• are 
r~M'"rvr-d. 
Ignorance of apartheid issues eliminates informed choice making 
As the drops began to fall during last Saturday's foot­ball game, a group of students in Section 30 of Notre Dame Stadium worked quickly to unroll banners before the rain ruined their work. 
The banners, promoted by the Center for Social Con­cerns, were directed toward apartheid and Notre Dame's role in ending the daily tragedies occurring in South Africa. 
For many students, however, it seemed they would allow nothing to interfere with their view of a football game. The approximately one minute that their vision was blocked was enough to inspire assorted threats to those holding banners, and chants of "invest more" among others. 
Except for those directly involved in the cause, many students didn't give much thought to apartheid and our community's role until the apartheid rally sponsored by student government. The dismissal of the two commit­tee members from a student government committee which was examining Notre Dame's investments also drew attention to the apar­theid issue. 
This does not necessarily point an accusatory finger at students with the standard condemnation of student apathy. The apartheid issue is a sensitive and intricate one. To understand it fully demands much reading and attention to current events. This kind of attention often demands time that students just don't have. 
To take a stand on the relationship between apar­
theid and investments in MARk'WIW1HOL.T South Africa by the Univer­sity and the College is even more difficult. This is an issue, however, that demands attention and time from students. Students around the country are reacting to the situation in South Africa, mainly because of the substantial amounts their respective schools have invested in companies there. 
At Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, the message is basi­cally the same -no divestment. Administrators of both institutions say they feel that divestment only could hurt the situation more than it could help. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, has said American divestment would lead to German and/orJapanese companies taking over the economy of South Africa -companies that would supposedly not ad­here to any sort of human rights standards in business practices. 
William Hickey, acting president at the College, has called divestment "the easy way out" for small institu­tions. Hickey and the College are developing a policy that will deal with social responsibility in investments 
: ****************** 
WANTED: ~ : One good used : 
* *
* * 
: Macintosh :
* ~yste"l * * call: * 
Research,  writing,  office  work.  
monitoring  entertainment.  One  
year commitment.  

* * 
: 28~ 4811 days :* 277-0396 evenings * 
* * 

11ae Notre o...e AlunanlA..odatlon. In cooperadon ,.tile CareerandPfacenaentSemcea 0/Jice• .., afiGin apon~or tlae Sunanaer.lob PfacenaentPrograna In 191M. 
IF YOUABEJNTEJIESTED INAPPLYING FOR SUJIJIER .lOBSINAN Alunanl Club dip. obtain an 
'4_pplfcadonfrona tlae Alunanl 0/lfee. 201 Aclala. Bldg. 
APPLICATIONS MUST BE COMPLETED AND RERJRNED BYNOVEMBER SO. 

lion seeking full-time staff. Lodging, $150/month, health coverage. Public Interet! group 
developing course• on non.­vlolence and operating National Coalition on Television VIolence national headquarters. In Cham­paign next to University Illinois. 
'-------217·38A·1 

Birth Defects 
******************** SuDlDier clob Applications Available 
Theresa A. Guarino 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 

for all situations, anrl "a general orientation to social concern." 
Whether you agree with Hesburgh or Hickey isn't the question. The question is: Do you know enough about the apartheid situation to have an informed opinion? 
Such information doesn't have to be difficult to ob­tain. There have been many lectures, discussion, films and seminars on the South African situation. And just when you thought every subject had been covered, Saint Mary's South African Awareness Week begins this 
Thursday. 
From Thuursday until next Sunday, there will be one program per night in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge, dealing with an aspect ofthe apartheid situ·a­tion. 
The week's theme is "Amandla: South African Freedom Now," using "amandla" (freedom), a key word for those seeking liberation from apartheid practices. Included in ac­tivities are lectures and dis­cussions by experts on the subject ofSouth Africa, such 
ll·l"z-gs-as Mutombo Mpanya, a Kel­logg fellow at Notre Dame, Sonny Venkatrathnam, a former political prisoner in South Africa, and Peter Walshe, director ofAfrican studies at Notre Dame. There are a number of ways that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's can work to counter apartheid. Divestment is one way. With some information, however, students can make the decision for themselves as to what they think is the best approach. South African Awareness Week is a timely opportunity to try and understand some ofthese issues. And after that, as the Irish hopefully beat LSU at the next home game, who knows who will be displaying banners? 
Unitedway
• 
Help the 
dp 
March of Dimes Fight 


The Observer Tuesday, November 12, 1985 -page 3 
Thirteen years later, Nixon tapes a secret 
Associated Press 
W ASIHNGTON · Thirteen years have passed since Congress passed a law seizing Richard Nixon's presidential papers and tape record­ings. Despite orders that documents dealing with Watergate be released "at the earliest reasonable date," not a single one has been made public. 
Nor has anyone been able to listen to the 4,000 hours of tapes. Only 12'> hours of thl· recordings are public · because they were used in the criminal trials of Nixon's subor· dinates. 
The latest attempt by the National An.·hives and Records Administra­tion to provide for public access 10 the 40 million pages of Nixon materials is stalled in the bureaucracy, although the Reagan administration denies there is any political reason. 
The archives sent a final draft of proposed regulations to the White !louse's Office of Management and Budget for routine approval on July 
II. 
Robert Bedell of OMB ack· 
• nowledged receipt on July 23 and said without further explanation that "it has been necessary for us to extend our review period." Nothing ha~ been heard about the regulations since then. 
The proposed regulations represent the sixth attempt to let the publlc see the Nixon documents. The first three sets of regulations were rejected by Congress, the fourth was submitted and withdrawn for legal reasons. The fifth set was ruled unconstitutional by a federal court. 
One problem may be that many pc:ople who worked for Nixon are, or have been. associated with the 
SEARS 
Credit Card 
Sears, Roebuck and Co. 
0 00000 00000 0 MLEWIS 
0000 
Use This Credit CardIn AnySears Store Anywhere 
Oneofthe most valuablecards 
a student can carry 
:\ ~t·.1r' Crt·dll Cml c111 hl' l'XIrl'lllt'fl· hdplul (II I'Oll. L''Jll'tl;ilil II l~>ll.rt· .IJllllH>r. 'l'lll~>l or graduaiL' '!Udt·nl 
IIL'Lill'l', a'Jtil·lrt~illll' llllllll'lli;lll' u,l'fulnt''·'· a ~l'.if' ( .rl·dll Cant 11 ill ildp l''lahfl,h llil·nnlll hal k gn >und \'till 111lllll'l'd .1fln ,., >ll gradu;IIL' 
II' l';l,ll'r 111 gl'l .1 ~l';lr' Crl'dll Card 1han \'llllllllgfll 1111nk )(>u dllll.llll'l'd a h1g hank alTillllll m a rl'gubr Jtlh w L'l.l'll ;I diplt~nla tf1·11u art• ;IJl''Jlllll"hiL· pl'l'.'tlll II II h I ill' .1hJi11 \' Ill fl;l\' \'llllf hill'· :-.t·;u' fWfll'l'l'' \'till dl''l'l\l'lrnlll.llld 11dl handll' 11 w11h carl' 
It's smart to establish credit now 
Amill' Wl~t· Ill gt'l ;1 St·ar., Crl'dll Cmlntm: whill' 1 llll rL' '1111 111 'ch• x>I II Wllllll' u.~t·f ul 10 \'llll ngl11 awa~: k·lllllg \till ge1wha1 you need whl'n '..4\!.llll'l'd 11 /11 tuft!II11ill. 11 \e11n Char~<' .·lccuul/1 u,, .ttl ht• l'flttr/tnl stt'f' 111 hutldt11p, a creditl,story A l'fl'lfll hbtorl'lhat 11 illlidp \'till gl'llfll' nedII 1uti'lf wanl whl'n I'Oll ft'.IH' 'chool 
No annual fee with a Sears Credit Card l'nlikl' 'l>rlll' crl'dll cmh. thl'rl'\ no annual it'l' lor ;1 ~·;1r' Crl'dll Card And dll'rl' arl' no IHddl'lll'rl'dil lli;ngi.•, l'llhl'r finann·charge' art• alway' full1 dh l'fo,t•d on 1·our SeJr., 'lall'illl'lll 
Get nationwide credit at Sears 
There ;lrt· mw .~-JOO Re1ail and Cualog Slmt'' all aero~., lhL· n>UIHn: and ,·our Sears C~nlll Card" go11d alevl'ry one ollhl'lil Thi~ means where1·er you liw.lra\'l·l or work 'Jild whert'\'l'r \'Oll ma\' mo\'e \'OU h;J\-e al'ailahll' l'fl'dII ;;I ;1 nea rhl' Sears . . 
Over 100,000 fine products and services 
\\ 11h a St•Jrs Credll Carll Yllllcanchoo't' from an 
t•nc >rmot" range of product' anti serl'ice,, anu ju'l 'a); "Charge it'" Evc:ry1hing from do1hc:s and camc:ras, 
Reagan administration. 
"They are extremely concerned about access to the public record of their activities . even though the stuff we are trying to open is like the stuff opened up for years in other presidential libraries," said one government official, who would speak only if promised anonymity. "They also are concerned that no 
matter how innocent their activities, the press would make a big deal of it." 
Fred Fielding, the White House 
counsel who worked in the same 
office in the Nixon administration 
under Watergate conspirator John 
Dean, said he has deliberately stayed 
out of the matter. 
"I suspect the delay can be at­
tributed to a lot of reasons. but not
~:~~~y~ D~:kn~~~~:~i.o;~~ ::~dbe~~ 
one of Nixon's Watergate lawyers. 
"Releasing the regulations would be 
no problem. That's just not it." 
An associate counsel in Fielding's 
h 'd "W d 't
office, Jo n Roberts, s:u e on 
want even to create the appearance 
we are involved in this for some sort 

of political reasons. People on staff 
here, who were in the Nixon White 
House, have recused themselves. 
We have no reason to keep these 
things from coming out." 
Roberts said the regulations are at 
the Justice Department for review. 

"This has been in litigation for 12 
years," he said. "The concern is that 

we do this right. Another round of 
unsuccessful litigation is simply 
going to delay the day these regula­
tions get out." 

The Archives had been prepared 
in 1983 to begin making public 1.5 
million pages of documents . those 
marked "special files" by the Nixon 
staff. 

dt·clronic gallll'.' and cakui:Hor.,, ro tires and a rune-up fm \'llllr LH And all \'our ml'rchaudise purchases arl' hac'kl'd f)\' :-.l'ar' f:uni>u' prormse, "Salisfanion (;uaran· tl'ed or 'tl.nlr Mllnl'y Back." 
Buy what you need when you're shorton cash 
Y11Ur '.ear' Crnlil Card il'" you buy whal you need whl'n \'oll net·d 11, l'\'l'll 1hough you may not have t hl' cash on hand ;nlhal par11cular moml·nl. 'il>u canlakl' advantagl' of Sear., specia I s:.llt·s as wdI as eVL'ryday good values. And \'Oll can slrl'tch your payml'nts over many month~ if \'I)IJ \\'J.,h 
Shop from Sears catalogs when you're short on time 
\X'hen \'Oll don'! have lime 10 ge110 a Sl'ar' Store, li'l' \'llur ~L·ar~ Crl'dit Can.llo orul'r hy phone from our bmou., ca1alogs Just say "Chargt· 11 1" 'il>u can eVL'n arrange for delivl'ry righl to your door. 
Apply for a Sears Credit Card right on campus 
DATE: Nov. 11-15 
TIME: 9a.m.-5p.m. 
PLACE: LaFortune Student Center 

Holography class offered at SMC 
By THERESA GUARINO 
SaintMary's ExecutiveEditor 
Students at Saint Mary's will explore a new art medium next semester as a "Holography Workshop" makes its debut in the College's art department. 
The course, to be offered from 6 to 9 p.m. Mondays and Wednes­days, will offer students an op­portunity to gain insight into the theory and practice of one of today's most advanced visual media. 
In holography, three-dimensional images are recorded on photo-sensitive materials with the aid of lasers. The images produced through this process have unusual clarity and depth. 
Most recently, the manufac­

'A t• pornography b·11 oted down
D 1-I V 
Associated !Press 
CAMBRIDGE· Mass. -An anti· pornography ordinance that would have allowed a woman who 

believed she had been hurt by por­nography to sue and collect damages has been detieated• accord· ing to fi naI resuIts released Yester· day. 
There were 13,031 votes cast Nov. 5 against the measure and 9,419 votes for it. There were 1,931 blank votes, said Alfred Gerardin, su­pervising auditor of the Election Commissiolll. 
"Terrific," said John Roberts, ex­ecutive director of the Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts. "It's a very emotional issue. In many ways, it's difficult to vote against. 
"But it would really have created a pall of censorship," he said. "There would be a 1real caution, overcaution perhaps, on the part of people who turers of VISA and Mastercard credit cards began incorporating holograms into their cards for security purposes. Numerous pt­her corporations, including Polaroid, Atari, and American Banknote, have begun exploring the commercial potential of the 
medium. 
The course will be taught at Saint Mary's by Doug Tyler, assis· tant professor, whose work In holography has gained wide recognition during the past several years, including recent exhibitions at the Centre George Pompidou in Paris and the Ham· burg Kunsthalle in West Ger­many. 
The College will be purchasing 
new equipment for the course, 
sell books. In the history of censor­ship, it's not always what the f d hink
creawrs o such or inances t they are targeting that becomes the actual target. It's not necessarily 
Hustler magazine. It could become 'Our Bodies, Ourselves."' h
In order for the anti-pornograp y ordinance to pass, one-th'trd of the city's 47,000 registered voters had to cast ballots on the question, and the majority of them had to have been in the affirmative. 
"We're disappointed that the new law is not going to be in effect," said Barbara Findlen, a member of the Women's Alliance Against Pornog­raphy, "but we're very pleased that the campaign itself focused atten­tlon on the issue as well as it did." 

She said the group will continue its educational work concerning pornography and investigate poten­tial remedies for the victims of por-
On Tour From New York 
2TIMETONY AWARD WINit!IER 
JOHN CULLUM 
G as 

~&~9 
Tl)e 
passionate taleot adventure 

This new adaptation features extraordinary 
set design and sumptuous 17th centurv costumes. 
Thursday &Friday, November 14 &15-8 p.m. EST 
Morris Civic Auditorium-South Bend 
Tickets: $23.50 $19.50 $14.50$10.50 
Special Student Dlscount-$5.00 Oft Listed Prices Box Office open Monday through Friday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. TELEPHONE (219) 284-9190 MasterCard & Visa accepted/Group Discounts 

ABroadway Theatre League Presentation 
P.O. Box 866 South Bend, IN 46624 
including several low power lasers. In addition, Tyler said some remodeling has been done in Moreau Hall's art classrooms to accommodate the class. 
The course by necessity, . will be small, but is open to students outside the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. "I would like people to know the opportunity is there," said Tyler. "That's why we'd like people in the com­munity to k~ow about it." 
The course will cost an exta 
$40 in addition to the standard 
$40 lab fee for art courses. 
While some background In photography may be helpful, said Tyler, it is not required, and stu­dents from all disciplines are en­couraged to enroll. 
nography. 
"I'm glad that It didn't pass. I feel that It's a positive thing for Cambridge that the ordinance was defeated," said Sue Hyde, a member
of the Feminist Anti-Censorship 
Taskforce, a group of 30 lawyers, writers and artists that fought the referendum question. 
Supporters of the measure said an avalanche of expensive lawsuits brought on by the measure would put pornographers out of business and make the streets safe for women again. 
Those opposed to the ordinance, including several city councilors, and the Civil Liberties Union of Mas­sachusetts, had called the measure censorship and argued It could be used by conservative groups such as the Moral Majority to ban homosexual literature and frankly worded health guides. 


r 
, r 
r 
' 
f 
' 
r 
f 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r r 
f 
_T_he_____________________________________________________________
~~r Tuesday,November12, 1985-page4 
INS probes handling of defection 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Immigra­tion and Naturalization Service has completed an internal probe into its handling of would-be Soviet defec­tor Miroslav Medvid, and that report is being reviewed by the Justice Department, an administration offi­cial said yesterday. · The official, declining to be iden­tified publicly, said the INS report was being studied by high-ranking officials at the department, includ­ing aides to Attorney General Edwin Meese and Deputy Attorney General 
D. LowellJensen. 
Vice President George Bush, in New Orleans yesterday to speak to the National Association of Realtors, said he was concerned about an ap-

Talks to free Atnericans continue 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Despite pronouncements last week that the Reagan administration will make "no deals" with kidnappers holding 

· Americans hostage in Lebanon, Secretary ofState George Shultz said Sunday that efforts are continuing to free them. 
"We try to work at it through whatever indirect contacts we have," Shultz said. 
He indicated the United States continues to seek help from Syria, Iran, Lebanon and Algeria, doing "everything we can think of' to "make it clear to those holding 
Senate 
continuedjrompage I 
senator's and class president's projects. 
Domagalski said Healy was the most representative leader on campus, since he was elected by the entire student body, and should therefore propose topics for debate. 
Senator Chris Abood disagreed with Domagalski. He said that it was all the senate members duty to bring in business. "You (Domagalski) should bring things to the senate be­cause you also represent the people," he said. 
Carroll Hall President Steve Kern also disagreed with Domagalski. "We are all leaders. We all represent a constituency. We are all supposed to bring resolutions here. ffthat kind of thing can't happen, then I don't think we need a senate," he said. 
Senator Jim Hagan said he believes that the lack ofbusiness has been a result of the attempt to dis­band the senate. "There's not a lot of incentive (to sponsor resolutions) when your existence hinges from week to week," he said. 
Senator K.C. Culum agreed. "People aren't sure if they should bring things to me if they think we won't be around in three weeks." 
Domagalski also blamed the lack of business on the fact that Healy 
-NOTICE­MEN&WOMEN 
17·62 
TRAIN NOW FOR CIVIL SERVICE EXAMS 
No High School Necessary Positions Start As High As 
$9·22 HOUR 
• 
POST OFFICE • CLERICAL 

• 
MECHANICS • INSPECTORS 


K..,PresentJobWhllePr.,.rlngAtHomeForCJovernmentExems 
Write &Include Phone No. 
National Training Service, Inc. 
pearance that the Reagan ad­ministration had changed its position on the Medvid issue. 
"It doesn't look good. My heart is troubled by it," he said. But Bush said American authorities did all they could to find out whether Med­vid wanted to defect. 
Meanwhile, Peter Roussel, a White House spokesman, declined to comment on a published report that the White House favors punish­ment for officials found responsible for prematurely returning Medvid to his ship. 
The Washington Times quoted an unidentified senior administration official as saying: "It is in order that the investigation of this incident should lead to severe disciplinary action and a clear record of punish­ment." 
hostages that they're holding in­nocent people -that they're not going to gain their objectives that way." 
In an open letter to President Reagan, some of the American hostages said their captors are "growing impatient," and appealed to the president to abandon "quiet diplomacy" and directly negotiate their release. 
The letter, signed by four of the hostages, also said they were told another hostage, U.S. embassy politi­cal officer William Buckley, 56, is dead. 
On Friday, White House spokes­man Larry Speakes reiterated U.S. 

doesn't bring his projects to the Hagan cited Healy's project to senate. "If you take all the issues have students bring their unwanted then there isn't anything for the basketball tickets to student govern­senate to do," he said. ment for resale to those students who could not get tickets, as an ex­
Hagan also said he believed Healy ample of an issue Healy could have should bring more of his actions brought before the senate. before the senate. "There's many Domagalski said he did not things that you can do that we can believe Healy needed to bring the help yon with. Our input can help," ticket project to the senate but that Hagan said. 
is not doing enough, however. 
VOLLEYBALL 
vs.16th-rankea Purdue 
tonight 
eom~wateh the ~S' VOLLEYBAL f6~ of ~our life!! 7:15A.C.C. 
The John M.Duggan 
Tickets are $6.50, $5.50, $4.50 
A dollar off to students and senior citizens. 
For ticket information ca/1284-4626 
The immigration service's inter­nal investigation involved taking sworn statements from a contract in­terpreter, used to initially interview Medvid after he jumped from a Soviet grain freighter into the Missis­sippi River on Oct. 24, and agents of the Border Patrol, which is part of the INS. 
The ship was escorted from port by the Coast Guard Saturday after the administration, following a high­level review of legal options, con­cluded that it either could not or would not try to enforce a subpoena issued by a Senate committee, com­manding Medvid's appearance before that panel. 
Agents of the Border Patrol twice returned Medvid to his 81 0-foot grain freighter in the early morning hours ofOct. 25. 
policy of"not negotiating" with ter­rorists, and said the-administration's position "will not change." 
But State Department spokesman Anita Stockman said Sunday that does not mean the Reagan ad­ministration has abandoned its ef­forts to free the captives. 
"We are not going to negotiate with the terrorists, but we will dis­cuss the matter, to lead to the safe release of the hostages," the spokes­woman said. 
She said officials "stay in touch" with governments in the region on the issue, but refused to comment on whether there is a willingness to talk directly with the abductors. 


COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION The O'Neil Lecture Series 
~peaker: 
DAVID LEWIN 

David Lewin Is Professor of Business, Director of the Business School Ph.D. Program, and Director of the Industrial Relations Research Center at Columbia University. The Author offour books and numerous articles In scholarly and professional journals, Professor Lewin has also recently completed papers on "Conflict Resolution In the Nonunion High Technology Firm," -rhe National Labor Relations Act alSO: A Research Appraisal and Agenda," "Public Employee Unionism and Labor Relations In the 1980's: An Analysis ofTransformatlon." and -rhe Elfecbl of Divesture on Bargaining Structure at A.T.&T. 
At Columbia. Profesttor I A"Win t .. af'hH courses In human resource management, labor relations and research methodoln both the M.B.A. and Ph.D. PrograiiUI. He Is also !'acuity Director of the l..olmbia Executive Program. Managing theEnterpriH, and of the Columbia-IBM Personnel Institute. He &eNE'i as a conaultent to Industry, labor. and government. 
T";>ic:  ''The National Labor Relations Act at 50"  
Date·  Thursday. November 14. 19~5  
Time and Place:  

12:15p.m. Faculty Seminar. Board Room, Hayes-Healy 
All members ofthe University ofNotre Dame Faculty are Invited 4:15p.m., lecture ana panel discussion, Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Room 122) 
.._. Faculty, students, and the public are Invited 

weeKenO 

break? 
Get one. With the Greyhound' Weekend Getaway. 
Offrr good for college students only. Some restrictions apply. 
See Greyhound for complete details. Price subject to change 
without notice.rt 1985 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 
~9~~~ 
GO GREYHOUND
round trip 


And leavethedrivingto us. 
(219) 287-6541 

The Observer 
Vets' Day celebrated nationwide 
As!•oclated Press 
Weeping at The Alamo and beating drums along the nation's main streets, Americans yesterday honored those who fought their wars, holding Veterans' Day vigils, mt·morial dedications and parades ­including a controversial march in New York that excluded a homosexual veterans group. 
While the wife of a mis.-;ing Navy pilot was delivering thousands oflet­ters to officials of Vietnam, demand­ing help in tracking down those still unaccounted for, President Reagan called on the nation to remember "the thing.~ that will continue the peace." 
~peaking to a crowd of 6,000 at the Tomb of the Unknowns at Ar­
lington National Cemetery, Reagan said, "All we can do is remember them and what they did and why they had to be brave for us. All we can do is try to see that other young men never have to join them." 
A somber service concluded a four-day vigil by Vietnam veterans in front of the Alamo in San Antonio, Texas, also in remembrance of the 2,500 combatants who never returned from the Southeast Asian war. 
"There's a patrol still out," said Michael Martin, who led a 300-mile march ofveterans from Dallas to San Antonio last week. Some in the audience wept. 
In New York, angry members of the Gay Veterans Association protested a decision barring them from marching under the group's banner in the annual American Legion parade down Fifth Avenue. The group held a separate wreath­laying. 
The American Legion barred homosexuals from taking part as an organized group, and two federal court rulings upheld the ban. 
"We wouldn't have minded them marching as individuals, we have gays in our organization. But we didn't want them coming in with signs about AIDS," said John Morahan, spokesman for theparade. 
Mayor Edward Koch used the parade podium to blast the exclu­sion. "I believe it was a mistake," he said. 
The 2,000 spectators along the Manhattan parade route barely out­numbered the 1,500 marchers, dis­appointed parade officials said. 
Schroeder experiences third stroke 
A..'ISOCiated Pre!lll 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. William Schroeder, the world's longest­living recipient ofa permanent artifi­cial heart, has suffered a third stroke and was readmitted to the hospital yesterday, a spokeswoman said. 
A pair of CAT scans, or computer enhanced X-rays, indicated a hemor­rhagk stroke on the right side of Schroedt·r's brain in an area unaf­fected by previous strokes, said Donna llazle, director ofpublic rela­tions at llumana llospital Audubon. 
Schroeder was admitted about 4 

p.m. and was listed In serious condi­tion, she said. 
Schroeder's doctors, including neurologist Gary Fox, had not determined the cause of the stroke, nor had they been able to pinpoint when it occurred, she said. 
The 5.\-year-old federal retiree underwent the first CAT scan late Sunday evening after showing "symptoms of lethargy," she said. The second test was performed early yesterday. 

The initial stroke occurred Dec. 
13. Since then Schroeder has suf­fered memory loss, has been weak and has had trouble speaking. He has been receiving physical and occupa­tional therapy for several months to help overcome the disabilities. 
Hospital officials had used the terms lethargic and listless to describe Schroeder after his second stroke in May. 
Dr. William DeVries implanted the Jarvik-7 mechanical pump in Schroeder on Nov. 25, making Schroeder the world's second recipient ofa permanent implant. 
Hazle said she had little informa­
tion on Schroeder's most recent set­
back. 
"It is a stroke, the cause of which is yet to be determined," Hazle said. "He is not in a critical care area and he is not on a respirator." 
Schroeder was returned to his specially-equipped apartment after each of the tests and was not read­mitted to Audubon until doctors had found evidence of the stroke, Hazle said. He receives 24-hour nursing care In the apartment. 
Hazle said she didn't know if any members ofSchroeder's family were with him when he became listless Sunday. 
Margaret Schroeder, the patient's wife, was ordered to return home to Jasper, Ind., in September after being hospitalized a few days for exhaus­tion. She has made a few trips to Louisville since then to see Schroeder, but her children have said they don't want her living in­definitely in Louisville. 
YOU CAN JOIN THE FIRST LOCAL IPA *HMO IN THE MICHIANA AREA 

Key

Health 

Plan 

1000;(, TOTAL HEALTH CARE WITH NO DEDUCTIBLES AND MINIMAL COPAYMENTS 
.,. OFFICE VISITS  '  
COVERS  .,. ROUTINE CHECK-UPS  
IN FULL  .,. PREGNANCIES  
Ill> SURGERIES  
.,. HOSPITALIZATIONS  
.,. EMERGENCY CARE BOTH IN AND OUT OF AREA­ 
WORLDWIDE  
.,. PAP SMEARS  
.,. IMMUNIZATIONS/INOCULATIONS  

KEY HEALTH PLAN 
Wholly Owned by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Indiana 
*Individual Practice Association (you personally choose a· privately practicing physician as your health care manager) 
• 

Tuesday, November 12, 1985 -page 5 

joanne Richardson (left), editor-in-chiefofthe Dome, consults withSueDerosa, academics editor, on a matteroflayoutdynamics. The entire Dome yearbook staffis working diligently to meet the second offive deadlines involved in producing the annual. 

Two Californians first to sight comet unaided 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif.-Two California astronomers were the first to see Halley's comet on its current visit without the aid of telescopes or binoculars, an astronomical report­ing agency said yesterday. 
"It's the first naked-eye sighting to my knowledge," Brian Marsden, director of the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams, said in a telephone interview from Cambridge, Mass. 
The bureau is a clearinghouse for such sightings worldwide. It is operated by the Smithsonian lnstitu­tior1 for the International Astronomi­cal Union. 
Astronomers Steve Edberg and Charles Morris said they saw the comet without the aid of binoculars or telescopes early Friday from the 7,000-foot level in the San Gabriel Mountains near Mount Waterman, 
about 30 miles northeast of Los An­
geles. 

Edberg and Morris "were observ­ing under extremely good conditions at high altitude, and they know what they're doing," Marsden said. "The general public is not going to be able to see it with the naked eye for a long time," at least for weeks and possibly not until 
January. 
"Morris found the comet first with 
binoculars, and then identified it on 
the sky without the binoculars," Ed­
berg said in a report filed with the 
Halley's comet computer informa­
tion buUetin board at Arizona State 
University. 
The comet, which returns to Earth's vicinity roughly every 76 years on its elliptical orbit around the sun, looked like a "patch oflight approximately the diameter but not the brightness of the fuU moon," Ed­berg said yesterday from his office at 
Jet Propulsion Laboratory. 
The poUtlcal turbulence of Northern Ireland explodes onto stage... 
~:--:-:::·~=::@·~'i=-::w-;v::;r;;:: 
. ~.:"1.~ .. ·'--"-.... 
THE 


FREEJl.To~ 


OF THE 
Cl·yYNotreDame. Showcase Production Directed by Reg Baln November 14,15,16and 21,22,23 Washington Hall-Lab Theatre(N. Entrance) 8:10PM All seats 4(only 100seatsoer performance) Tickets available: At the door At 320 O'Shaughneaay Hall 

.,1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 1 
1 
, ~ 
, 1 
1 
1 l 
l,,
, 
1 
1 
1 l 1 
1 1 
-
• 
~i~~~_()__i__ll__t_________________
r_ue-sd-ay,_N_ov-em-be_r_12_,1_98-5--pa-ge-6 
Anti-Apartheid Network booed by ND students 
Uke all Domers, I thoroughly enjoy our home football games. Even when our team is having little to no luck, we keep our hopes up with the assistanc ofour always smiling cheer­ieaders and mischievous leprechaun. School spirit always emanates from the stands in the forms of a "Go Irish" chant, or our "woop­wooping," or perhaps our dry-your-nails­shake, or -weU, you know the rest. And let us face it, we all love these forms ofpositive fun. 
Chris Edwards 
guest column 
But, during the past game against "Ole Miss," something rather perverse happened (and I do not meanJeffAnhut, our leprechaun, following the Mississippi cheerleaders at half time.) Even amidst downpours, the loyal Notre Dame students were cheering on our team. But amongst us were some selfish stu­dents who were so callous as to try and divert our support for our team and make it support for themselves. I am ofcourse referring to the small handful of Anti-Apartheid Network sup­porters who wanted to disrupt our game and win sympathy for their political issue. 
To their great dismay, the student body did not extend their approval, but instead shouted the Network down. The Network's chant for "Divestment" was met with an over­whelming response by the students for "More Investment!!" When the Domers were urged again to support the Network in the third quarter, the student body retorted with an 
adamant "Go to----!!" (and it was not Heaven 
or Purgatory). 

We Domers have been inundated with the 
slanted and biased misrepresentation of the 
situation in South Africa by this Anti­
Apartheid Network all semester. Their 
propaganda has failed to make fools of us. 
They underestimated our abilities to see 
through their deceitful inaccuracies. Divest­
ment is a mindless fraud undeserving of our 
attention or support. 

This entire event is simply a clear demonstration of the Network's inability to think for itself. The call for divestment was shouted out of the dark, and like obedient (but mindless) baaaaing sheep, some usually intelligent people fell for the ploy and began baaing for divestment. This past week, Abbie Hoffman (no relation to Emil) told these people to make their vindictive little signs and do what they could to disrupt our football game. And so again, like obedient Iitle sheep, they painted their senseless slogans and tried to do the impossible --and fell flat on their faces in the attempt. 
However, what is the bottom line? Simply this: their arguments for divestment lacked the substance and credibility to persuade us, so now they are following a more militant ap­proach. We must therefore consider what this may lead to, if not on our own campus, then perhaps elsewhere. The Abbie Hoffman factor may be bigger than it looks at first glance. The Anti-Apartheid Networks across the country may be so blinded and obsessed with victory, that any price will do. So let us all welcome back the radicalism of the late 60's and early 70's. Let us also welcome back the beginning of senseless violence by the civil "peacemakers" who have become desperate for victory. When do the sit-ins start? And the brick-throwing? And what would radicalism be without lots of students being maimed, or God forbid, killed???!!! If not here, maybe somewhere else. Before anyone begins cheer­ing the re-emergence of past campus radicalism they should first recollect the per­sonal cost to the weeping mothers mourning the loss of their children. 
I 

That is about the sum of it. The Anti-Apartheid divestment arguments have been heard all semester. The jury (i.e. the student body) has reached its verdict and have pronounced a sound defeat for Anti-Apartheid and its Network on our turf, in our stands. I think we all deserve a break after a very long period of debate. I hope that the Anti­Apartheid Network will have enough respect for the student body's decision and never try such a cheap stunt like this again. 
Chris Edwards is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame. 


Activists' simple slogans fashionable, not logical 
Students here at Notre Dame have repeatedly challenged the University's policy on investment in South Africa. Now, under the guidance of the guru Abbie Hoffman, they have even attempted to partially re-enact the social activism ofthe '60's. 
Steve Safranek a view from the limb 
Such activism brought to the world the wonderful sexual revolution, and helped to force the United States out of Vietnam-which led to the flourishing offreedom there today as recognized in the re-education camps which have been established in Vietnam. The 60's even brought us the freedom to experi­ment with drugs. 
The profound slogans that were used by those advocating change in the '60's souQd suprisingly like those being used by the Anti­Arpartheid Network. Sayings like "U.S. out of Vietnam" are similar to "U.S. out of South Africa." 
, 
However, simple slogans usually seek solu­tions to complex problems. The effort to end
r 
apartheid in South Africa involves countless 
,r complexities. And at best, the judgments that are made about the effect of our actions will be prudent judgments. All of the judgments which we make should be made with the desire to ensure that our action does not lead to slavery even more pernicious, or to a civil war more enduring than that under which most ofAfrica now groans. First, it is evident that everyone agrees about the end to be sought in South Africa-an end to black disenfranchisement. Better 
r 
r 
Doonesbury
r 
TlJt:¥tY TIE MJ1~ HO/JSE 5Tl:PPWUP ITS PRE­9/MMrTW./Ve 7lJ R£CAPTUR/3 7He 
''PROPA64NC¥l INITIATIV£3. '1 
/ 
working conditions, higher salaries, etc. are still enslavement ifthe blacks have no political power. And it is certain that freedom by our standards demands political equality. But if blacks are given enfranchisement, what will the Afrikaners have? 
They see their struggle as not only for their way oflife, but also for their very existence. If they do allow equal rights to blacks, they ensure their own loss of political power. Before they do so, they will demand a guaran­tee that their rights will be defended -their minority rights. 
But such guarantees can never be given. No history of rights for minorities exists in South Africa. Nor can the five million whites there be given any believeable guarantees. ( Mandela refuses to renounce non-violence and is thus still being held in a South African jail.) So what are they to do? Are they to give up their rights in the mere hope that their rights will be protected? Is the repression ofa minority any less invidious than the repres­sion ofa majority? 
Imagine ifyou can that we Americans, after a history of enslavement of the Indians, were still a numerical minority. If we were asked to give them full rights, with the great likelihood of our being enslaved, would we be morally required to give someone the power to enslave us? South Africans have even more concrete fears because ofwhat they have seen happen in nearby Zimbabwe. 
Nevertheless, it seems clear that we should 
champion the rights of the enslaved peoples 
of the world: those of South Africa, those of 
Eastern Europe, and those promised free elec­
tions in Nicaragua. But this championing of 
rights may mean different things in different 
contexts. It may mean summit meetings with the Soviets, it may mean divestment in South Africa; however, unless one can clearly show a causal link between someone's actions and their effects, it is difficult to say that their ac­tivities are morally wrong. 
Perhaps, the best argument for Notre Dame divestment in South Africa is that this Univer­sity should stand as a sort ofbeacon. It should refuse to deal with activities that involve highly questionable moral situations. Because when it does so, it may be seen as lending an aura of validity to the effects of those ac­tivities. 
Of course, such an argument leads a 
N~~IY' ~. 
.. ANOTH/515 A8'i0li./Ttl.Y 
W~ICf»fe AMAZIN6, 
P/HfiN I IAI.MT 511!.! CANtu& 
70 THIN!<. A8CJ(fT GOTHF<OUGH 

Pll?WPtAce. 7H& CLIJ5E;TS? 
\ I 


reflective person to ask why the University should permit a University researcher to ex­periment on the tissue of aborted fetuses. It also leads one to ask why so few Notre Dame students are involved in promoting what are clearly social goods (like pro-life, soup kitchens, etc.). while so many are involved in promoting the cause ofSouth Africa. But then again, maybe my premise is all wrong, because I premised my argument on what is better, not on what is more fashionable. 
Steve Safranek is a second-year law stu­dent and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the day 

"Perhaps an editor might begin a reformation in some such way as this. Divide his paper into four chapters, heading the 1st, Truths. 2d, Probabilities. 3d. Pos­sibilities. 4th, Lies. The first chapter would be very short." 
Thomasjefferson (1743-1826) 
"ielYP-_O_i_n_t___________________________________________r_u_e_sd_a_y_,N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_t2~,_t_9_s_s~-p~a~g~e--7 
Notre Dame's guide to checkmarked courses helps 
After painstakingly selecting four courses, spot at the front of the line a·nd a place in the doors, making sure you will not get pinned you decide to choose a literature course to class. behind either one. Take a deep brea.th and 
round out next semester's schedule. Roaming Most importantly, you must be willing to wait. door to door in your dorm, you obtain a lose sleep. Literature checkmarks, as well as At 7 a.m., you will notice a man approach­preliminary course schedule, now tattered at theology and philosophy checkmarks, are dis­ing, dressed in faded jeans and a blue Notre 
the edges, with pages missing, and numerous tributed at Stepan Center beginning at 8 a.m. Dame maintenance shirt. Turn and focus your 
comments next to classes suggesting "This You should be sitting outside the locked eyes on the door until he puts his key into the dass is easy" or "Don't take this class because doors, wrapped in a blanket, and be planning lock. As soon as you feel the warm air hit your the teacher stinks." Your eyes scan the your strategy by 3 a.m. Under no cir­face, squeeze through the opening. Be careful literature section until you think you have cumstances should you go alone. People who ofyour balance because hundreds will be pus­found that elusive fifth course -"19th Century have made this mistake in the past have fallen hing behind you. Authors." Suddenly, you glance to the right of asleep, and have then awakened to find the At this point, you need to enact the next the course and tremble as you see the dreaded doors open and checkmarks already being phase of your strategy. You will see three Domer word· "Checkmarked." given out. tables placed in the middle of Stepan Center, 
At approximately 6 a.m., other students will approximately 50 feet apart. Unfortunately, Mark C. Dickinson arrive. You must immediately question them no signs indicate which table represents to discover what courses they want. If they which department. Facing a one in three mention something other than "19th Century chance ofpicking the right table, you need toguest column Authors," forget they u:ist, but if they men­form an alliance. Find five students up front tion your course, beware. Keep them in sight and make plans to send two to each table 
<:heckmarked courses need not create such wherever they.go because they can turn on when the right moment comes. You can trust tension. A checkmark merely means you must you at any moment. Although they appear your allies, not because they want to help you, visit, on a designated day, the department of­friendly, your competitors would without but because they want to help themselves. fering the course and enroll in the class. It hesitation trample over you to get the same For the next hour, students creep closer, sounds easy, but it is not. The problem results course. and closer, respecting the unwritten rule of when a hundred other people also decide to By 6:45a.m., two to three hundred students maintaining at least a twenty yard gap bet­take 19th Century Authors · a class limited to anxiously wait for the heavy glass doors to ween themselves and the tables. If someone thirty students. Before changing your mind open at the seventh stroke ofthe Sacr•ed Heart violates this distance, by all means move one about the class, remember that enrollment is bells. These next fifteen minutes determine step ahead of him. Keep your eyes on people awarded to those arriving first. By following a success and failure. Stand up and position who attempt to sneak around the edge of the few simple steps. you can ensure yourself a yourself hrtween the two outward opening pack. 
P.O. BoxQ 
I would like to say another thing. You have
Let's hope Lions will get United States must tum
been great at the games too, but let us see ifwe can show the freshmen that two, three, or fourthrown to the Christians years here has not made us any less rowdy or up pressure for peace obnoxious.
Dear Editor: DearEditor:
If you have read thus far you have now
With all of the problems lately on campus, I am writing in response to a Nov. 8 View­
arrived at the last paragraph. We have someth­
such as the student senate controversy and point article which argues to "Let South Africa
ing special here at Notre Dame besides et­
the rumors of impeachment, I thought I be South Africa." In the arguments for not im­
hanol, and that is our spirit. To those who
would write an optimistic letter concerning posing economic sanctions on South Africa, I 
contribute to that spirit in any way, I would
something that the campus will never have a find that the strongest arguments are in favor 
just like to say thank you. Now let us hope that
problem with: spirit. ofsanctions.
the Lions get thrown to the Christians.
One of the groups which symbolizes the The author, attempting to be the ultimate 
]obn A. McConvilleJr.
spirit of Notre Dame is the hand. Those men pragmatist, states, "South Africa is a good ally
Carroll Hall
and women are out there during and after as well as a strategic partner we must not turn every game and they never fail to pump me up our back on." He proposes the threat ofcom­during a contest. I think that I can speak for Leaders should exa:mine munist influence if we allow the majority to most if not all of the: students when I say your rule the South African government. In ac­

their personal values 
efforts are most appreciated. Your softshoe tuality, the greatest chances of the United during ''Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious" Dear Editor: States losing influence in South Africa would was top notch. At a time when student government be to remain in "constructive engagement" 
Another group which deserves some dominates the pages of The Observer, with with the Botha regime. ren>gnition is the cheerleaders. Although the stories regarding the inefficiency of various seniors probably cannot hear them, they representative bodies, it is time to look at the Casting all moral arguments aside, simple 
rc.·ally do cheer. And cheer well, I may add. If I situation in a new light. Perhaps we could get mathematics should make it evident that 5 may make one suggestion, however, I would to the root of the problem by looking at the million whites cannot control 24 million like to formally ask that the darn "woop­individuals making up these bodie:s rather oppressed, angry blacks. A USA Today woop" cheer be officially canned. Do that than the structure of the bodies themselves. editorial last month expressed it best. "South hand and body shaking one lots more. It drew Let us examine the character and integrity Africa will selfdestruct ifapartheid is not dis­
raves in the junior section. of the leaders of our councils and boards mantled. No nation can survive where the 
A third embodiment, and I say this literally, before we place all of the blame on the offices majority has no dignity, no vote and no right of our spirit is the leprechaun, Jeff Anhut. I which they fill. Supposedly these individuals would bet a year's tuition that he could get a are representative of the typical Notre Dame crowd of cadavers to make noise if given the student. If this is the case, we have to wonder opportunity. !lis assortment of signs, gim­what type of people really make up this so­micks and cheers have raised the role of our called "Catholic" community. It is foolish to masc.·ot to a new high. Keep it up, you mad­expect us to respect and to follow the deci­man, you. sions of people whose actions in their private 
t:inally, and prohahly much to the chagrin lives so contradict what they supposedly up­of the.-upperclassmen, that wacky, rowdy hold in their public lives. For these leaders hunc.·h of freshmen have come to symbolize who are supposedly so concerned about the the spirit ofNotre Dame. Now, I am not saying good of the student body as a whole, it is that the.· upperclassmen do not cheer(at least I amazing to me how some of them can be so had better not be saying that because I happen callous and uncaring in their treatment of in­to be one of those upperdas..o;men), but the dividuals. Do they think what they preach freshmc.·n have heen great. Although the Wave from their glorified offices is not applicable to has been dragged, beaten and stomped upon their private lives? Why do not some of you by the aforesaid group, at least they attempt to reexamine your own personal value systems initiate cheers. To those freshmen, I would before you fill up your resumes with these like to say one thing. Do not ever become worthless titles of "representative" leader­complacent with your cheering. Try to ship. Think on it. bec.·ome more rowdy and obnoxious every Becky Goerner time you go to a game. To the upperclassmen, Lyons Hall 
Editorial Board 




The Observer 
P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper publ1shed by the students of the Un~verstty of 
News Editor ...................................Dan McCullough 
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino 
adm1n1strahon of e1ther InStitUtion. The news IS reponed as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of a maJority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healy 
ranes. leners and lhe lns~de Column present the v1ews of thetr authors. Column space IS 
Viewpoint Editor .........._...... -.................. Joe Murphy
ava1lable to all members of the commun1ty and the free expres&lon of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
The moment you see the three departmen­tal representatives approach their respective tables, sprint toward your assigned table like Johnny Carson avoiding an alimony payment. If each student makes it to his table, you will get your class. If not, you still have a one in three chance ofrunning to the right table. 
When the signs are posted identifying the deparments, join your other two allies at the literature table. This process, which should operate quickly so as not to draw too much attention, ends when each of the six students stands before his correct table ready to receive a checkmark. Do not worry about a student questioning your stunt, because he will usually back down in the face of an al­liance. If he docs not back down, sign up for the class and use your sprinting ability ro exit the center. 
By following these directions, you have an excellent chance of enrolling in a check­marked class, but if you do not get up early, the system will not work and your chances are slim. Ifyou follow the system and all else fails, remember that no one needs that class more than you. Forget your morals and act accord­ingly. 
Mark C. Dickinson is a junior American Studies major at Notre Dame. 
to live where it chooses." 

Although economic sanctions Will hurt some blacks in the short run, they are the last possible means we have of pressuring the South African government to negotiate with black leaders and averting a bloody civil war. 
The author says we cannot abandon a friend as Important as South Africa. I find striking the choice of the word "friend" to describe the United States' relationship with a country practicing racial separation, but if we are "friends" we should not allow them to com­mit suicide, which is what the government is doing by furthering the system ofapartheid. 
A major history lesson has taught us-that we "should not try to force a country to reform its policies." History has taught us the dangers of supporting oppressive regimes which, once overthrown, leave the United States with no avenue ofinfluence over those we had helped to be oppressed. 
The United States' relationship with South Africa does allow us to have some influence on their actions. We cannot solve South Africa's problems, but we can help them to make a choice. If merely to protect our own interests in South Africa, the United States must use economic sanctions to turn up the pressure for peace. 
Patrick Francis Grace Hall 


,
.,
, 
., 
1 
, 1 
1 
,
,
, 
j
,
,
Operations Board 

l 
1 
,1 
,
Business Manager .. . Dav1d StepheOIIch ,Controller.. ... W1ll1am J. H1ghducheck 
1
Advertismg Msnsger .. .. Jim Hagan ,Systems Manager .. .... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager .. .. John A. Mennell 1 
Founded November 3, 1966 







Accent 
Tuesday, November 12, 1985 -page 8 
VCRs provide escape from the doldrums 
Helpful summer job advice from book 
ROBIN SQUYRES 
features writer 
T 
ry picturing these scenes: You 
are haggard and worn after I 0 
minutes ofstraight studying and 
you need a break; or you have a hot 
date with one ofNotre Dame's 
finest but no inspirations as for how 
to amuse yourselves; or you are 
bored and discouraged with life in 
general and need a quick pick-me­
up. What form ofentertainment can 
solve all these dilemmas in a single 
bound? The dorm video cassette 
recorder ofcourse. With a mul­
titude ofoptions behind it, the 
dorm VCR is clearly an interesting 
and notable item. 
Most of Notre Dame's residence 
halls have their own VCR. The 
machine is managed in most cases 
by an elected VCR commissioner, 
who are the inspiration behind 
most ofthe movies that are chosen 
and shown. Most of the halls have 
their recording machine hooked up 
to a large screen television in a 
Prominent Public Place, so that all 
passers-by may be awed and 
impressed by that particular dorm's 
technological progress. 
Many of the halls sponsor a 
"movie night" at least once during 
the course ofan average week at 
which one or two films are shown 
free ofcharge. Some ofthe dorms 
may go so far as to advertise a par­
ticularly interesting film in advance, 
hoping to draw large crowds offun, 
exciting people. During the week, 
however, many are involved in 
academic pursuits, limiting the 
number offun, exciting people 
available. Most ofthe time the 
crowd that turns out is mainly made 
up offriendly dorm brothers or 
sisters seeking a study break 
combined with a minor social 
scene. 
"It gives people in the dorm a 
chance to get together," offers Tom 
Mellon, a Grace Hall resident. Sit­
ting together in front ofthe boob 
tube laughing uproariously or dab­
bing tears is highly conducive to 
hall unity. 
Friends and beaux are occasionally 
~ 
r 
Books 
r 
r 
r Getting Work Experience 
r 
r r 
KEVIN BECKER 
r 
features writer 
r 
r r Are you tired ofslinging the r proverbial hash all summer 
r 
long? Have you had it up to your ankles (so to speak) ofshoveling fertilizer for your Uncle Barlow's manure farm? 
Ifyou are, this book may just be ~ for you. r "Getting Work Experience"
r 
which hit the stands Nov. 5, is 
r 
r authored by Temple University graduate and USA Today business
r 
reporter Betsy Bauer. Basically, 
r 
what Bauer has done is take a lot of r the footwork out oflooking for a r summer job that doesn't simply ; consist ofplaying golden retriever 
for a secretary. 
Included in the publication are over 10,000 internship programs ranging from advertising to science and environmental research. The 
r 
r 
r 
geographical areas covered are nationwide and include 43 ofthe 50 states. Along with this coverage comes a number oftop notch com­panies who are looking for qualified students to work for them over a summer. 
Each ofthe listings falls into a 
,, 
Loose lips sink internships '' 
specific general category and gives the name and address ofa potential employer. This includes description of the type ofbusiness the company deals in, the number ofinternships, qualifications needed in employees, a description ofthe job, how to imported to watch a particularly it's had any great impact on our girlfriend and a bottle ofwine." 
touted film, but this seems to be the social lives. We rent movies once in Awww. But the owners agreed, exception rather than the general awhile and have a couple people the machines are most frequently 
rule. "A good diversion from study­over, but it's really no big deal." used for copying favorite TV shows 
ing," is what Dillon Hall resident Dave Martin, a junior in Morris­("Bugs Bunny","Roadrunner") John Hussman thinks ofthe weekly sey Hall, also shares a VCR with his while the macfiine operators are off 
movie show. "It depends on the roommates. "We use it during diligently studying their law and 
movie, but it's mostly just people parties, and once in awhile with a engineering curriculum. 
hanging out." 
Weekend movies are slightly more ofa social attraction, but still, the hard core movie goers tend to be those with little else to do. "The weekend dorm movies are usually an alternative to whatever I'm doing. Sometimes I'll go to the movie in addition to doing someth­ing else," a junior from Grace Hall remarked. 
Many ofthe halls offer an inter­esting alternative -you can rent or borrow the hall machine and set it up in your very own room. With the ; added privacy, more VCR partiers seem to come out oftheir hiding places. "People borrow it for in­dividual get-togethers. It's someth­ing different to do once in awhile," said Matthew Glaser, a sophmore in Stanford Hall. 
In most halls, you merely speak to your VCR commissioner a few days in advance, pay a small fee, if any, and voila, a night ofenormous fun is ahead. 
There are also those who brave the cold world outside of the Notre Dame community to rent a machine from one of the surrounding video stores. The students' main haunts tend to be Video 23 or Home Video Center, both on Ironwood. The machine rental usually involves about a 150 deposit and a rental fee somewhere between $10 to $15. The movies themselves cost anywhere from S2 to S5, depending on the renter's status as a member or not. 
Then there are also those rare individuals with their own record­ing machine. Kevin Gilhool, a sophmore in Dillon Hall, offered a few comments about the machine he shares with his roommates. "I guess having the recorder is pretty much an elitest type thing. People are impressed, but I wouldn't say 
So you can never say there is nothing to do -there's always your friendly neighborhood VCR! Cur­ling up in front of the tube in your rattiest bathrobe on a cold miserable night with a mug ofSwiss mocha and the right people can be more fun than you ever imagined. 
apply and the salary for the posi­
tion. 
Speaking ofsalary, the pay generally runs from the minimum wage to over $300 a week. Some of the positions include no stipends, but most will try to work out academic credit for your labor. 
On the whole, the book is very informative and may even be con­sidered "must reading" for those who want to get a new angle on summer employment but do not have the time to search through the quagmire ofgovernment publica­tions. The people who may benefit the.most are the engineers who seem to be in the greatest demand and have the highest pay rating. 
Along with the information on jobs, Bauer manages to give poten­tial job hunters a few words of advice and reminds them that inter­nship positions are very com­petetive and require hard work. My favorite line in the entire text which made this book worth reading is when Bauer actresses those who wish to intern in the Washington, D.C. area. Washigton is an interesting place but one must "Spill the beans selectively (and) be careful about with whom you share your observations. Loose lips sink internships." 
Fisher residents intently watch "Amadeus" on thier VCR The Observer/Drew Sandler 
-


Accent 
Tuesday, November 12, 1985-page 9 
Notre Dame to sue. David Letterman? 
T 
Reaching Letterman's office is Spivey the message and he would to hold a stakeout by the phone was one time for one last call. CHUCK FREEBY simple enough as the NBC get back just as soon as he could. until receiving the call from Dave. The connection went to Spivey's Features Writer switchboard is all too happy to Apparently, she either failed to The hours passed by until at office one more time, and once dispatch callers to the offices of remember or just didn't bother to 11:00 a.m., another call was placed again the secretary armed the hree consecutlvt· wins has "Late Night with David Letterman." tell us that Mr. Spivey was vacation­to Spivey's corner. Once again, the fortress around Letterman with the quieted much of the specula­Interviewers are then promptly ing in Botswana or some other part message was taken by the in· "Mr. Spivey's not in right now" tion about Notre Dame's present · dispatched to the extension of of the world where phone com­penetrable one at Spivey's office, tactic. That is, until Spivey came on coaching situation. That is, until last Peter Spivey, who arranges all inter-munication did not exist. who assured us he would return the the phone himself. Thursday night, one ofthe world's 
We're having some fun, now. most respected media sources The situation was calmly ex· made a bold statt•mt·nt on national plained to Spivey, who calmly TV. responded with two messages. First, No, it wasn't Brent Musberger or "for the last one-and-a-half years, Larry King. It wa~n't even Howard Dave hasn't done interviews with Cosell, although he appt·ared on the campus newspapers." Second, show. Tht• man who made this "Dave doesn't talk about topics or startlin~ot revelation was none other guests which are on the show." 
than. David Letterman. As I hung up the phone, it was liard to believe, but true. clear there was only one route Sometime during the middle ofa 
left. segment Dave likt·s to <.·all "Small Late Night with David LettermanTown News," he camt· across an ad 30 Rockefeller Plaza in tht· South Bend Tribune which New York, N.Y. 10013read "free dog dip." Letterman Dear Dave, casually addt•d the remark, "And This is to inform you that we arethat comes with all the Fritos you about to slap <1 Jl.7 million dollarcan t·at." 
lawsuit on you. All we wanted to doAt this point, Dave said hello to was find out some informationhis ~otood friend, Paul Schaffer, and about our football coach, and yourasked the bandlcader ifhe knew 

henchmen acted a.., though they just

what famous unin·rsity was in didn't care.
South Bend. After uttering a reply of Dave, we feel hurt. We feel "Tribune University," Paul ack­cheated. I mean, Dave, we do andnowledged our li!lle haven of Notre do and do for you, and this Is theDame <.lid indt'ed rt'st in South thanks we get.
Bend. 
Dave, we're appealing to yourNow the importam part comes. 

sense oftruth, justice and the

Lettt·rman prt>C<.'t·<.le<.lto cock his 
American way (no offense, Paul). 

ht·ad towards th<.' audience and Please, help uphold the Firstremark, "You know.lthink we're Amendment and talk to us or we'llgoing 10 get a new football coach be forced into a nasty trial which Isnt'xt yt·ar." 
just going to hurt you and theWakt· the k1ds, phone the neigh· American public.

hors, we've got a hot one. views for Dave. After a good majority ofa day call. 
l know if this matter gets to you,Right under our noses, a major Now we're making progress, went by, another phone call was Yeah, right. 

Dave, you'll help us out.

story was breaking an<.ll.ctterman right? Well, guess again, folks. placed to the same bundle of Four hours later, the phone had was on lop of it (and we all know Upon transfer to Mr. Spivey's excitement. She proceeded to yet to ring with anyone from Letter· Sincerely, Chuck Frceby
how painful I hal can be). II was up office, we reached a secretary who inform us that Mr. Spivey would call man's staff(although we did get an to The Obst'rver to R!Vl' Dave a call exuded the excitement of her job back Wednesday. Unfortunately, interesting caU asking if Moose The Observer and find ou1 just what was going on. with each breathless sigh she took. she did not give a time that he Krause was stlll alive). With It's in his hands, now. In Dave, we So. kl's gt•t on with it, shall we? She promised she would give Mr. would call. meaning I would have deadline quickly approaching, it trust. 
Guitarist Huskey to perform at SMC 
Special to the Observer 
B 
rian Huskey, a North Carolina· 
ba.'ied singer/guitarist will per­
form in the Chameleon Room of the 
lfaggar College Center at Saint 
Mary's on Nov. 12 from H to I I 
p.m.. The show is bdng sponsored by the SMC student government. 
Brian Huskey has been on the road as a professional entertainer for over ten years and claims to have logged "about a million miles or so" on his way to performing 300 shows each year in colleges, clubs, and nmcerts. His unique blc:nd of charmingly warped humor and down-to· earth music has won audiences in 2') states, a couple of foreign countries, and a few·odd planets. The music covers a broad spectrum ranging from his own tunes (both comedic and serious) to songs by more familiar names such as jackson Browne, The Beatles, Bob Seger, and Arlo Guthrie. His wit is dry and pointed, 
''Big rooms scare me. '' 
sometimes off-beat and takes good natured pokes at subjects like col· lege life, air travel, parental respon· sibilities, and his own "adventures on the road." Brian has opened concerts for 
and toured with such major acts as Juice Newton, The Nitty Gritty Dirt 
Band, Emmylou Harris, Leon Russel, and Firefalll. He has released two albumsto date with sales nearing the six figure mark-all on his own with no help from major recording companies. Performing where he is most comC.ortable ("big rooms scare me") In intimate cabaret atmospheres, he has gained a faith· ful and somewhat cultish following which grows each year thanks to his relentless touring. 
Claiming to want no part of"the big time," IBrian Huskey seems to be one ofthe few left in his class; a down-to-e:trth, ifsomewhat ir· reverent, Slinger/comedian who Is a delight both on and offthe stage. Free nachos and popcorn will be served, so don't miss the show! 

become an Accent humor columnist ••• and have the campus in stitches 
Are you funny? 
There will be a meeting for all those Interested Thursday night at 7 In the Observer office. 

• 
1 
I 
Brian Huskey provides rock, comedy, and "good stuff' 
r -The Observer ' 



Sports Briefs 
NVA campus all-nighter entry forms must be submitted by tomotTOw to the NVA office in the ACC or to the An­gela Athletic Facility. For more information call 239-6100. -The Ob­server 
A mystery guest from the ND football team will join host Chuck Freeby on "Speaking ofSports" tonight at 10 on WVFI, AM-64. Listeners may phone in their questions or comments by cal­
I 
t ling 239-6400.-The Obseroer 
~ 
l 
NVA basketball officials are needed for co-ree
t 
basketball, men's and women's interhall, and club basketball. For more information call the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
•~ t 
NVAteam turkeyshootreservations must be sub­mitted by Thursday to the NVA office in the ACC. The event will be held Nov. 18-19 from 4:30 -6:00 p.m. at the stadium rifle range by Gate 14. Teams must consist of two men and two women. For more information call the NVA. -The Obseroer 
The ACC hockeyrinkis now available for interhall hockey practice. Individual dormitories may reserve late evening ice time for one hour at a rate of J50 per session. For more informa­tion call Tom Carroll between the hours of 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. at 239-5227.-The Obseroer 
Racquetball enthusiasts who are looking for 
competition should mail an index card to 308 Walsh Hall by Nov. 22 
stating name, address, phone number and skill level. For more in­
formation call Michele Debrey at 283-4526.-The Obseroer 
NVA Century Club is a program to promote in­dividual exercise and fitness. Applicants select an exercise and pledge a personal fitness goal. When the applicant reaches his/her goal, a free Club T-shirt will be given out. To fill out a pledge card or to get more information call the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
-NVA fitness focus newsletter is published 
monthly and is available through campus mail at no expense. To be placed on the mailing list call NVA at 2 39-51 00. -The Obseroer 
I 
Tuesday, November 12, 1985 -page 10 
Penn State gains top spot in AP; will host Notre Dame this Saturday 
Associated Press • ranked No. 1 this season. remaining two first-place votes went The No. 1 ranking wasn't ex­to Oklahoma, which held seventh pected to excite Penn State Coach place with 883 points following a
Penn State has become the fifth Joe Paterno. Following Saturday's 51-6 romp over Missouri.
team to reach the top of The As­
game, he said: "as I've always said, Michigan moved up from ninth tosociated Press college f9otball poll nobody's anything until the season's eighth with 744 points by drubbingthis season, ending Florida's one­over. That's exactly the way I feel Purdue 47-0, Arkansas leaped fromweekreign. 
about it." 12th to ninth with 662 points byThe Nittany Lions, second a week downing No. 1 1 Baylor 20-14, andago, boosted their record to 9-0 by Nebraska, which crushed Iowa Oklahoma State, which beat Kansasdefeating Cincinnati 31-1 0 Saturday State 49-0 Saturday, moved up from State 35-3, remained in lOth placeand took advantage of Florida's 24-3 third place to second with nine first­with 646 points.
loss to Georgia, which dropped the place votes and 1,083 points. Ohio The 20 teams in this week's pollGators to 11th place. State trounced Northwestern 35-17 are the same as last week, with some
and went from fourth to third with
Penn State received 44 of 59 first­shuffling.
two first-place votes and 1,021
place votes and 1,14 3 of a possible The Second Ten consists of
points.

1,180 points yesterday from a Florida, Georgia, UCLA, Auburn, nationwide panel of sports writers Air Force, the nation's only 10-0 Florida State, Brigham Young, and sportscasters. team, rose from fifth to fourth with Baylor, Tennessee, LSU and 
two first-place votes and 941 points Alabama. 
The rise to the top capped a by routing Army 45-7 and Iowa went Last week, it was Baylor, Arkansas, season-long climb for Penn State, from sixth to fifth with 905 points Auburn, UCLA, l.SU, Florida State, which was 19th in the first regular­after walloping Illinois 59-0. Georgia, BYU, Tennessee and season poll and has since been 11th, Alabama. 1Oth, ninth, eighth, sixth, third and Miami of Florida, a 29-22 winner second. Oklahoma, Auburn, Iowa over Maryland, vaulted from eighth and Florida had previously been place to sixth with 891 points. The 
APTopTwenty 

The Top Twenty college football teama in The Aa­socieled Preu poll. with firat-place votea in paren­theses. thi1 season's recorda and total points. Points
P.E. players were helped offthe field 
baaed on 20-19-1 B-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents
due to ailments. The maladies areir.Jicizsd.

Farley 
ranged from ligament damage for 
I. Penn State (44) 9-D-0 1.143
Schrenk to a wrist sprain for P.E.'s ot­2. Nebraaka (9) 8-1-0 
1.083 continuedfrom page 16 her running back, Armstrong. There 3. Ohio Slate (2) 8-1-0 1.021 
4. Air Force (2) ID-D-0 941
"I am very pleased with the way was also a slight concusion suffered 
5. Iowa 8-1-0 905 that our defense played," said Al­by P.E.'s tight end and a sprained 6. Miamt 8-1-0 891 7. O«lanoma (2) 6-1-0 883
meida. "They really could not do ankle injury to another East player. 
8. MIChigan 7-1-1 744
that much against us. I am also very Even with the losses, P.E. again 9. Arkanl88 8-1-0 662 happy with our offensive line's per­began to drive. They could only 10. OklehomaSt 7-1-0 646 
11. Flonda 7-1-1 577
formance. This was probably their reach midfield, however, before Fat­12. Georgia 7-1-1 548 
best game ofthe year." 1 her Time ran out on P.E. and its 13. UCLA 7-1-1 494 14. Auburn 7-2-0 436
With 5:50 remaining, P.E. championship hopes. 
15. Florida St 7-2-0 323 regained the football after a Farley The win earned Farley its second 16. Brigham Young 8-2-0 238 17. BaytOf 7-2-0 225
punt. consecutive flag football crown, as 
18. Tenneaaee 5-1-2 204
It was here that the rash ofinjuries well as the culmination of a perfect 19. LSU 5-1-1 172 occurred. On successive plays, three 9-0 season. 20. Alabama 6-2-1 82 
I ht· ( Jhsern•r ''•I n· I )Jrnc: , •lhc. c: lc •c. Jlc:d c111 1 hc: 1turd l1cu1r c•I I Jlt •n unt: "tudt.:nr ( c:ntc:r Jtc. c.·ph t l.t,,lllc.·d Jc.h c.·fll'lll~ In 1111 ') J 111 until t pIll \1c•lldJ\ 
rhrough I nl.iJ\ /he Uhsener 'JIIll \1Jn 'ot1u.c: lnc.Jtc:d on thc.·tiHrd tlour of 
I IJ~gJr < ullc:gt· < nHc.·r Jc.c. c.·pr' 1.. IJ''ltinh tr• !Ill I.! -'ttl p 01 unlll "" p 111 \1,,n 
~ 
dJ\ rh••ugh I nd..1' lk.Jdlarll" lt11 nc'l d.t\ c.l.t,,lfttd' '' "'pm \II c.l.t,,Jfic.·d"" 
llHJ'I ht· prc:p.ud c. 11hc:r 11t pc:r,c•n,•r h\ 111.1d ( h.ngc. ,.., fllc.c:nl,pt:rfl'c. c. h.tr.Ic. 
' Classifieds lc:r.., ·wr d.t\ 
' 
' LOST: BACKPACK, NAVY BLUE-CON­NEED 4 LSU GA"S CALL LYNN 284-4023 EARN $$$ FOR ALL THOSE BOOKS HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOM THIS FRIDAY NIGHT AT THE IIUUX TAINS NORTON'S ANTHO OF YOU DIDN"T READ!! PANDORA'S WILL ARTS BALL. CHICAGO'S OWN
NOTICES 
POETRY. 1 NOTEBOOK. AND A BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M-F 11-4. OR NICHOLAS TREIIUUI AND HIS
l 
! 
SPANISH TEXT. NOTES VERY IMPOR­WANTED FOR A RICH DOCTOR: WE CAN HELP YOU FIND A USED SEVEN PIECE BAND WILL SHAKE TYPING AVAILABLE TANT! IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL JIM 8 GAa in blocks of 2 Of mOfe !Of the LSU BOOK FOR A CLASS. WE"RE OPEN M­LOST IN SOUTH BEND DOWN THE ARCHITECTURE BUILD­287-4082 AT 1607. game. F 11-6. SAT&SUN 10.5. PANDORI.-S IS ING WITH THEIR SUPER 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ OPPOSITE CORBY"S ] 937 SOUTH R&B!POP/FUNK/DANCE 
l 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8117 LOST1!1 Small navy Coach puree. Con­Call Fran at 2687. BEND AVE. PORTAGE ROAD GROOVITRON SOUND. DON'T MISS taina Iota of 10 pfua keya! Pleue call RIVERSIDE DRIVE THIS UP AND COMING BAND SHOW EXPERT TYPING 2n-6S34 AFTER 5:30 4203. Sizeable reward offered. thankyou so much st. jude CLEVELAND ROAD WHY THEY HAVE BECOME ................................ CHICAGo·s MOST SOUGHT AFTER TYPING LOST: GOLD WOMEN"S HIGH SCHOOL HI, my ,.ma 11 Alicia and I _,. your Did AMY GRANT apeak to your heart? HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY! SOUND, A~D WHY EVERY MAJOR 277-1045 CLASS RING.GARNET."B5. INITIALS atudent LIU tlckat. Then THE SPIRITUAL ROCK OF RECORD LABEL HAS BEEN DYING TO FREE PICKUP I DEUVERY CAB. LOST AT SMC 1 1/8/85. REWARD. $$$$$$ NOTRE DAilE ialor you. Join us !Of lel­SIGN NICHOlAS TREIIUUSI BEAUX 
PLEASE CALL CHERYL AT 284-5091 Pleue call 2687. lowahip Wedneadays 7:00 p.m. in ARTS/II THIS FRIDAY' Keenan Chapel. Queetiono colt Tom BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN LIVE TAPES
l 
$1D-$380 WEEKLY/UP IIAIUNG CIII­LOST: gold A via watch with brown leather 3310. Mike 2338. George 3244. from all toura fOJ safe.Call201 1 fOJ info. CUL.AMI NO QUOTAS! IINCEJIIELY band. Pleaee Cali 2~4-4230 NEEDED DESPERATELY: 2 LSU GA's ATTENTION LADIES' JAPES INTERESTED RUSH SELF· CALL LAURA 3839 SENIOR CLAII SKI TRIP At Boyne DEAR PIGGY Me!!! (A.K.A...SUGAR LIPS'"). THAT HOG ADDREUED ENVELOPE: SUCCESS, MounlainFeb.I4-16.SignupsNov. 12-14 Tnanks very much for 111e grea111mea lhro STUD. WILL BE GIVING DEMONSTRA­
NEED 3 TICKETS FOR LSU GAME
PO IIOX 470CEG, WOODSTOCK, IL LaFortune Price:$1 15 $50 NON­weekend!!! You are very apec1al!!! TIONS OF HIS "'TRICK PELVIS'" UPON 80088. FOR RENT CALL 277-4324 EVENINGS REFUNDABLE deposit needed at sign­HA•HA!HA! LOVE Your Fellow Teddy REQUEST. FOR A SHOW YOU'LL ups LIMITED SPACE! Queationo?SeniOf Bear Lover NEVER FORGET, CALL31B5'G.Y.S. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL CIBII Newsletter "' calf 277-1067. 
HOUSE FOR 2ND SEMESTER. 5­
IIRS. COKER, 233-70011. PSYC CLUB 1ST MEETING. MAJORS & Thank You St. Jude. OJ
PENN STATE nX NEEDEDBDRMS. $125/MO/PERSON. 1 MI. NO. 
HUNGRY? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE MINORS. 7:30 PM WED. NOV 13.
CALL 1504OF CAMPUS. CALL 674-6595 AFTER 5 
Profeeeional word pr~ng and typing. at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm-12pm LAFORTUNE AUD. REFRESHMENTS' Theo MaJora: Do not mfu.., intereet· 
P.M.
Convenient location on N. Ironwood. Call Monday-Thursday; 5pm-2am Friday: int evM~lnt wlth Father Flecher on 277-4220 IOJ appointment. 3pm-1am Saturday; and 4pm-10pm Sun­What happened on FRIDAY. NOVEM­Wedneeday, Novem-13, 10:00 pm In
You see, my roommate had this gir11riend 
day. BER B. from 5 to 8:30 et SENIOR BAR? 341 O'lhaughn-y.
in Jersey. She left him for this otller guy, 
BRYAN ADAMI II COlliNGI Only the HAPPY HOUR OF THE
who now goes to Penn State. My
in WANTED thank you very much saint jude YEAR.thrown by !he Lyons Pentllouse HELP1NEED ride to Mrnneapol!s fOJ
roommate would luuuuuv to aee him. But, 
THE ROCK-~KE Mamaailal: Diedre. Maggie. M1mi. Anne, Thankagrving Of Chriotmu call LeeAnn at 
soap opera fans. this win not be Poaaible
THURSDAY, NOV.14th CHIMES-CHIMES-CHIMES-Is now ac­Donna. Vikki. Jul1e. Chris, and Joanie. 284-5520.
without 4 Penn State tfckata. So call ua
8:30 P.ll., NORTH DININO HALL Need nde to Pittsburgh IOJ Thankagiving cepting your POETRY, SHORT We, the BIRTHDAY 3. say THANKS IOf .....................
now at 1373 and aek for BRUTUS. 
break. Can teeve anytime. Call Teresa at STORIES. AND ART WORK. Submit to the bast week-long 21 at celebration ever HOLY CROSS WEEK "85: NOV. 9-14 THANKS AGAIN ST.JUDE!!!JAR 287-6703. Max WesHer. 310 Mad. befdre Dec. 1st!!!! to hit NO! Here·o lv ua--(NOT to the men TUES. COLOR DAY. WED. OPEN
Help a seniOJ get his family to the fast NO we love!) Thank you a thousand timea. HOUSE 3:30-5 PM. THURS. MISS HOLY home football game. I need 6 GA'a and 5 
NEED RIDERS TO BOWLING GREEN MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Love. Monica. Kathy. and Dee Dee. CROSS CONTEST, CARROLL HALL. 7
stud. tix. Calf Terry x2045. 
NOV. 15-17-XtBSB ---NEW LOCATION-PM. COllE JOIN THE FUN I 311EAdBidg FARLEY FOOTBALL FANS: Thanks fOJ
LOST/FOUND I 
Ride needed St. Paul, MN area fOJ (by Student Affaire) all your support! We couldn"t have done it HEY DUDES IT'S ANN AUSTRIA'S 20TH 
Thankagiving break call SMC 5269 Of NEED PENN ST. GA"S wilhoul you/1-Farfey·s Finest CALL HER AND WISH HER A HAPPY B­LOST -ONE GOLD LOOP EARRING 5270 PLEASE CALL: 11:3D-12:30 M-F OAY 284-4048 ABOUT 6 WEEKS AGO SOMEWHERE PHIL:288-4753 $20.200 BETWEEN PANGBORN AND REGINA. DEAN :289-3482 30 days 1 percent intereat FARLEY FOOTBALL FANS•.• BElT HAPPY 8-DAY ANN HOPE YOU HAVE A IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT MARK:1897 FANS IN THE LEAGUEII GREAT DAY ALISA.MOIRA.MOLLY 284-4006. 
FOR SALE 
................................................................ PITTSBURGH CLUB Thankagiving Bus: oink oink oink oink MOLLY We saw a horse !all weekend LOST: Gold Elgin watch, prol*lfy at MEETING: Thura Nov 14 6-7 pm at Little oink oink oink oink and tllought of you. How much ia Guineaa SaniOJ e.on HallowMn. Of aermmenlal Theatre, LaFortune INFO: Leavee: Wed ANDREW PHIWPI a keg? We were sure you would know that 
FOR SALE KENWOOD AM-FM STEREO 
value· gift from parenta for 18th birthday. Nov 27 2:00 pm from CCE(ND) & Holy oink oink oink oink by now! We miaa you!!! Love, ua.
RECEIVER;50 WATTS/CHANNEL -2
If found. piMM *Angela at 272-8623. PERSONALS Croaa(SMC) Returna: Sun Dec 1 1:00pm oink oink oink oink 
SETS OF PIONEER CAR 
from Greyhound Term. in Pin. $55 THURSDAY. . .THE EVENT OF THESPEAKERS;ROUND-INMOUNT­
LOST: ONE TOYOTA KEY BElWEEN roundtrip. $40 on•way QUESTIONS: IEIIEITER•••COllE lEE THE O.C.
MARKUS 2n-0840 ANYTIME
SENIOR BAR AND CUSHING IF """i,;"ti,;~-;;;,ti,i~"g·-g~·;;:;;;;-gJ,·;,~·;;;i~d Call A.J. x1844 DEAR PREG, (I MEAN MEG!) I AM IOCCEJII TEAll TIIOUNCE THEIR OP· YOU"VE FOUND IT, PLEASE CALL that haa no meaning? 50000 SORRY' PLEASE FORGIVE PONENT, (whoever the unlucky ,....,
BALPUNKT car atereo. equalizer, po­
2631. 
SENIORS II ME. YOU"RE THE GREATEST! LOVE of foola maybe), FOR THE CHAIIIPION­
booater. 4 apeakera. powerful equip.-low 
SR. REFLEcnON C*OUPS PEEP A LING IHIP, 7PII CARnER FIELD. COllE
package~. 28~2 evening~.
FOUND: A watch on Sunday morning, 81GN UP AT cac SUPPORT THE PEOPLE WHO GIVE 
................................................................
11/10. Call Marl< at 2450 and deecribe lt. I NEED t(OR MORE?)CASTRATE THII SCHOOL A SOCIAL UFE EVERY 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR. PENN STATE T-SHIRT BEFORE I WEEKENDIII p.a. Hi Kron!!! HELP!! I loll a K-diac camera (and CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.• 1 THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT Firat Illere LEAVE FOR GAME ON THURS.CALL valuable pix) at tile Riviera Lodge on TICKETS BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. -John Kennedy. Then there-Bob ~HRIS AT 3810 TO SELL! BUCK-HEAD FOR THE HILLS. WAIT I"M 10/31. Hfound PLEASE ratum to Nancy Corrigan. Now COrnel Brian Huak&y Nov COMMING WITH YOU!!! X2784. PREGNANT? 12 B-11pm Chameleon Room Free 
INEED PINN ITI LIU GM.2'7:HaOI NEED HELP? Nachoef Bring bact< Bliatex claaicl LOST!! A PEARL RING WITH GOLD Call 234-0363. 24-hr. hotline, counuling BAND. SOMEWHERE 11/8. PLEASE DESPERATELY NEED 2 LSU GA"S. & tree pregnancy t-. CARNIVAL OF CAREERS If Tu• Nov 12 wrten )IOU wear nothing at .,, ­PLEASE HELP~ CALL CARRIE WILL PAY TOP $$!CALL JOHN AFTER WOlliN'S CARE CENTER 3-6pm Angela Athletic Fac Come -"'I tllink Beefy AnchOJ Bunone ahould be dl.mondetuda or Ieeth.,.. ROBERTS x3221. 11PM AT 4601. whal you can do with your MAJOR! included."' Thanka fOJ the advice. Beth 
The Observer Tuesday, November 12, 1985 -page 11 

Basketbaii_Tickets 
Because all of the ireshmen did not receive tickets to the basketball games, we have arranged with ticket office for upperclassmen to sell the tickets which they will not be using to these freshmen. 
1. 
All interested upperclassmen should drop off the tickets they will not be using at Student Government Offices, 2nd Floor, LaFortune Student Center (between Sam and 4pm). 

2. 
The tickets received by Student Governmen1t will be specially stamped. Tickets removed from booklets and sold without this stamp and a valid I.D. will not be honored at the A. C. C. 

3. 
The day before each game, all tickets will go on sale at the Rock Dulac Record Store (Lafortune Student Center, Main Floor). Tickets will be sold only to those freshmen who waited in line at the A.C.C. (After 4pm they will be sold to any student on a first come, first serve basis). No checks will be accepted; please bring exactly four dollars. 

4. 
Student Government cannot quarantee the ~•ale of all tickets turned in. For those which we do sell, we will mail the money directly to the person via campus mail. 

5. 
Those upperclassmen who participate in this program will automatically be entered into a raffle. After the last home game winners will be drawn. First prize will be $100.00 towards purchases at the Notre Dame Bookstore. Second and Third prizes will be $75.00 and $50.00 respectively toward purchases at the book­store. For every ticket turned in, we will enter your name another time into the raffle. 


We would like to thank all the upperclassmen for helping out and we hope the freshmen enjoy the games. 
Kevin Hurley 
Please write letters to Kevin in care of Notre Dame Student Government, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
We are still accepting donations at 2nd Floor Offices, LaFortune Student Center for Kevin's long-term care. 
All interested in helping with a Christmas fundraiser please call: Elisa Cullina at SMC 284-5445. 
Transfers 
Ifyou are having any problems, or you have any questions, please contact us: 
Mike Huber (Transfer Club President) 232-5389 or 239-7668 
BUI Healy (Student Body President) 283-1601 or 239-6111 
We are still selling Transfer Club T-Shirts. Best Wishes as you continue your first semester. 
Needed: Interested Students in fighting the Ethanol Stench. 
Student Government is forming an Activist Group with the local group "CEASE" and Saint Mary's. We need a chairman ­and committee members. Please sign up for interviews in Student Government Offices 2nd Floor, LaFortune Student Center, or call Bob McNamara at 239-7668. 
As one Notre Dame student is quoted "Notre Dame has a beautiful campus, but it stinks." Here's your chance to make a difference. 
Questions, Comments, Concerns .•• 
Student Body President OfficcHours: 1(}.12,1-3MWFand4-,:30TTh  Bill Healy  239-6111  
Student Body Vice-President Duane lawrence Office Hours: 1-2:15, 3:15-4:30 MWF and 2:3(}.4:30TTh  239-7668  
Student Body Treasurer Office Hours: 3:3(}.,:30 MWF and 2:3(}.4:30 TTh  Eric Parzianello  239-7417  
Senator (District I) Chris Abood Dorms: Alumni, Carroll, Holy Cross, Walsh, Old Collese, lewis, Sorin, S!. Ed's  283-11<16  
Senator (District 2) K.C. Culum Dorms: Stanford, Keenan, Zahm, Breen-Phillips, Farley, Cavanaugh  28:1-1462  
Senator (District 3) John Ginty Dorms: Morrissey, lyons, Pansborn, Fisher, Badin, DiUon, Howard  283-3069  
Senator (District 4)  Steve Taeyaens  283-1204  

Dorms: Pasquerilla Ease, Pasquerilla Wesc, Grace, Flanner 
Senator (Discrict.,) Jim Hasan 277-7,70 Off-Campus 
H.P.C. Chairman Kevin Howard 239-7668 
Judicial Coordinator Karen Ingwersen 239-7668 283-2640 
Calendar 

Lock up a Friend Wed. & Thurs., Nov. 13 & 14 (Security Office) 7pm-10pm 
AJumni-SenJor Club Wed., Nov.13 
• for United Way 9pm-2am 
"Rock-a-Like" Thurs., Nov. 14 9:30pm-???? 


Wed. & Thurs., Nov. 13 &14 
Noon to 9 p.m. Precision Haircut & Style-Only $10 Ternf1c campus cuts at super savmgs w1th student 10. Free g1fts & refreshments. 
R9GIS HAIRSTYUSTS 

r 
The Observer 
Captain 
continuedfrompage 16 
"Being so young a team is a big 
thing. Sometimes I forget how 
young we are." 
The Irish are certainly young. 
Four freshmen and two sophomqres 
log a good portion of the playing 
time. 
Make no bones about it, however, Mclaughlin is not ready to wave the white flag in the least. She has a resilience of spirit and a certain determination of purpose. The frustrations encountered this year only have nursed the passion for success all the more. 
"These last two weeks are all I 
have left," says Mclaughlin. "I want 

Mary McLaughlin 
the team to do the best it can. I'm not going to be around and playing in the next couple years to see the result ofthe program." 
Mclaughlin, who will graduate come this spring, will be leaving a team that is certainly up and coming. This fact makes her feel somewhat ambivalent since she has been a part of the growing pains of the entire 
The Observer is now accepting ap­plications for 
• Assistant Photo Editor 
Duties will include: coordinating Ac­cent photo assignments and darkroom maintenance. 
Applications are due to Pete Laches by 5 p.m. Tuesday, Nov. 12. 
dBASEII® setsthe dataritanageme:n
standardfor 8-bitcomputers 
HERE'SHOW: 
• Powerful English langua~ commands manage data for over 1.000.000• users. 
Come See aDemonstration Today. 

,,~ Sf"Ciohzlng In computu wftwo...,,
'1(5\ 1? 1? hardware and books. 
~ ~d_S Mon. thru Fri. 10-5 1639 N. Ironwood Drive Sat. 12-5 South Bend 1277-5026 
Ashton-Tate is a trademark of Ashton-Tate. dBase Ills a registered tratJemark of A8hton-tate. 
program. 
In fact, Head Coach Art Lambert plans on eventually vaulting the program into the glitter and hoopla of prime-time collegiate volleyball. And Mclaughlin won't be a part of the realization of that rebuilding ef­fort. 
"I have mixed emotions," says Mclaughlin. "There's a closeness to the team that I'll miss, but then again, I guess it's time to move on." 
Never mind that, though. No rebate has been requested and her immediate concerns center around the end of the season. Now all thoughts and wishes bend toward the North Star Conference tourna­
ment taking place this weekend in St. Louis. "The team goal is winning the conference," she says. 
It seems it's time for the Irish vol­leyball team to knuckle down, and you can bet the farm that Mclaugh­lin's return to the lineup will do not­hing but help. 
"Hopefully, I'll be a unifying factor," says the captain. "My being a senior should help." 
As far as Mclaughlin is con­cerened, she's just happy to be back from her injury. 
"I told (Coach Lambert) that I don't care where I'm playing. as long as I'm out there," she says. "Right now I can only play the back row. I can't block yet because of the finger." 
Between now and the conference tournament, however, there is this match tonight against the Boiler­makers. It is a sure-fire bet to be a showdown of epic proportions as the Irish head straight into the hor­net's nest. 
Without a doubt, there is no love lost between the two teams. Purdue, genuinely dangerous, has handled the Irish somewhat easily, both ear­lier this season and last year too. 
But Mclaughlin, for one, does not plan on playing second fiddle to anyone. 
"Personally," she says, "I would love to beat Purdue." 
Hmm. Sounds like something's brewing. And come tonight, the Irish will be most serious, serious as the grave. ' 
After the Purdue match and the conference tournament, the Irish must play Eastern Michigan and Arizona State at home, and then con­clude the tail end ofNovember with the Ransier Invitational, featuring the likes of UCLA, Houston, and Western Michigan. 
Ultimately, Mclaughlin hopes that the team will not end the season with a whimper, but a bang. And a loud one at that. 
Tuesday, November 12, 1985 -page 12 
Upcoming Volleyball 
· · Home matches in CAPS 
I. 
PURDUE North Star Conference Championships St. Louis, MO 
EASTERN MICHIGAN ARIZONA STATE Ransier Invitational (UCLA, Houston, Western Michigan) Kalamazoo, MI Nov.ll Nov. 15-16 
Nov.19 Nov. 23 Nov. 29-30 (Tues.) (Fri.-Sat.) 

(Tues.) (Sat.) (Fri.-Sat.) 

Don't Count ~on Getting A Bundle This Holiday 
(unless you talk to Apple.) 
A 

Let's face it. The only bundle that will fit ir your stocking is a bundle of sticks. Or lumps of coal. Who needs that? All you get are thorns in your fingers and dirty hands. 
Instead, ask for a Holiday Bundle from Apple®--a Macintosh™ computer and Imagewriter™ II Printer. Macintosh™ is helping people everywhere work smarter, quicker and more creatively. What's more, you can be creating with Macintosh™ and getting a head start on nextterm before 
• the turk~y even gets to the table. 
Contact your campus Macintosh™ location for more information about the Holiday B undies available until December 31. Ask for a Macintosh™, and leave the sticks and coal in the fireplace where they belong. Extra batteries not included ... ar needed. Con·<ll I c;l•J.eral Micro 
For '1orc Information..• LaF·II !II ll' Student Center 239-7477 
© 1985 Apple Computer, Inc. Appl:! and the Apple logo are trc.. temarks ofApple Computer,Jnc. 
Macintosh is a trademark ofMcintosh Laboratory and is used wt.h iis express permisszon. 

echoing  Boulac's sentiments.  "I'm  ing individual technique, develop·  
ing  team  skills  and  gaining  
experience.  
"Then there's the nebulous factor  
of attitude. It will be there, but it  
takes time to develop. The losing is  junior Karen Sapp ofthe Notre Dame volleyball  
tough on confidence, but we have to  team stretches to return a shot in a match earlier  
work through these things. If there's  this season. Sapp is one of the few veterans on a  
another  way of doing it,  I'm  not  the setter, where she performed ad·  get started until they're 12-14, or If  you're going to win immediately. 1  
aware ofit."  mirably  for  four  matches,  before  you're lucky, in grade school. So it  know  people  here  want  to  sec  
.~ '  If there is another way, it is not  Suglich  returned  to  the  lineup.  takes  time  to  teach  players,  and  results and that's not unreasonable.  
..  readily identifiable. However, there  While Morin may be able to develop  you're not going to get the great vol·  The question is how quickly you can  
are measures, both short-term and  into a good setter by next season, a  leyball athlete if you don't have an  produce.  
long-run, which will 1-telp Lambert  third setter would certainly help.  established program."  "Everybody loves winners. That's  
improve the program and bring it to  ''I'd like to sec us get a setter who  Even if Lambert can find that kind  the nature of America. But you have  
Art Lambert  the level it wants to go. Short-term solutions  would allow an all-around player like Suglich to play defense," riotes  of player, they also have to meet the University's admission standards.  to pay your dues. We're just starting to do it now, and these girls are  
If  you  want  to  get  an  early  Boulac.  Most of the players on the team are  giving all they have."  
disappointed with our win-loss record, but we've had a tough st·hedule to go against with a young  Christmas present for the Notre Dame volleyball team, pick up one of these.  Boulac certainly has a point, and it is not something that Lambert has not considered. Suglich is certainly  outstanding students · McLaughlin was nominated for Academic All· America honors and hitter Kathy  The only solution that can be given in the long-term right now is patience. Patience by Lambert, and  
team, and these girls have given I 00 percent." Nohody will deny the youth or  •One or two outside hitters. "We need a couple of strong outside hitters," comments Lam·  one of the top defensive players on the team, leading the team in digs. Notre Dame's .defense, which has  Baker also received consideration · and had no problems with admls· sions. Every day, however, Lambert  patience from the athletic depart· ment. Both of those seem to be evident  
tht· effort of this Notre Dame squad. ( >f the I.~ players currently on the roster. nine arc freshmen and sop­homores. Out of the group of four  bert. "That's no secret." "Our girls are great athletes," con· curs Boulac. "They can jump and hit, but we've had problems putting the  been deficient at times this year, cer· tainly improves when Suglich can move to the outside to get to balls near the lines.  and assistant coach Renee DeGraff will have to pass on an excellent prospect because ofacademics. Those measures may serve a  now, although It Is no secret that ath· lctic administrators would like to sec more spectators in the ACC for matches. Crowds this year have  
veterans, McLaughlin is the leader  ball down. Right now, we're just too  Furthermore,  Notre  Dame  will  purpose for  one or two years, but  hovered around the 200 mark, but  
ilnd she was sidlcined for I S matches this season due to surgery  inconsistent." A ream spiking percentage of.138  lose a setter this year when McLaughlin graduates and that just  the true test will come over time. Long-run solutions  Boulac stated that he would like to sec that increase.  
on  her  right  middle  finger.  That  is indicative of that. The Irish need  enhances the  need for  a  replace·  How long it will take Notre Dame  "Eventually, we hope to get to the  
forced the burden of court leader­ somebody  who  can  score  kills  at  mcnt.  to  become  a  national contender?  point where we can draw like Wes·  
ship to he carried by Suglich and Kathy Morin, a pair of sophomores still trying to gain experience. Despite Its youth, this Irish squad  will. The current roster includes three freshmen ( Zanette Bennett, Maureen Shea and Mary Kay Waller) who have the potential to become  •Experienced players. That may sound ridiculous at first, but most of the players in this year's  Obviously, no one knows the answer for sure, but Lambert and Boulac both expect the process to take four years, with this year being  tern Michigan," comments Boulac, who is talking about a top· I 0 program which consistently draws about 2,800 fans per match.  
could have rolled to victories if it  that kind of player, but they all arc  the first.  "If we have good volleyball and  
were playing the same teams Notre Dame played in 1983. The current  lacking in volleyball experience and need to develop some skills.  "I'm 111ot disappointed with  "I don't think it (the program) has been given a timetable, but we'd like  start to win, I think we'll get the sup· port," comments Boulac. "The stu·  
Irish schedule, though, is a far cry from two years ago. This season,  lf Lambert can come up with a recruit this season who can spike ef.  the progress we've made."  to see some positive results by the time this year's freshman class  dents have to be the nucleus of the support. 1 think It's hard to Imagine a  
Notre Dame may play as many as l 0  fcctivcly and has good court sense, it  graduates," comments Boulac.  student who has seen a volleyball  
matches against top-20 teams, in­cluding tonight's contest against No.  could make a big difference. •An experienced high school set·  -Art Lambert  While Lambert concurs with Boulac's prediction, he notes that If  match and would not come back." Of course, the key word there is  
16 Purdue.  ter.  the program becomes a contender  when the Irish begin to "win". lfthat  
So has Notre Dame tried to bite off  Lambert  experienced  an  un·  in four years, it will be the quickest  will happen in this program, it will  
more than It could chew? In Lam­ foreseen difficulty at the Santa Clara  recruiting class did not have more  building ofa volleyball team in quite  take  time.  And  if Notre  Dame Is  
bert's opinion, the answer is no.  match  this  season.  Five  minutes  than two years of experience at the  sometime.  serious  about  its  commitment  to  
"We can't  hide  for  two  years,"  before game time, he didn't have a  high school level.  "Every coach I've talked to has  women's volleyball, it will have to  
states  Lambert.  "You can't  attract  setter.  "Volleyball isn't like basketball,"  said it will take 4-6 years depending  back up Its claim with a quality that  
the top players without an attractive  McLaughlin was already sidelined,  states Lambert. "You can't go out  on variables," notes the Irish court  is not in great supply at Notre Dame  
schedule.  That's  uppermost  In  a  and Suglich came up with a foot in·  and play volleyball by yourself or  boss. "Just because you make a com·  these days.  
recruit's mind. If you don't play the  jury. That pressed Morin into duty as  with two people, so most kids don't  mitment to volleyball doesn't mean  Patience.  

The Observer Tuesday, November 12, 1985 -page 13 
hig teams, there's a credibility problem as to whether or not you

Program 
have made the commitment. 
"Secondly, you can watch all the continuedfrom page 16 matches you want and look at all the films, but you don't learn what it
coaches. 
takes to be a good team until you goThe program had outgrown the on the floor."lt-adership of Sandy VanSiager, who Boulac, on the other hand, ishad no collegiate volleyball coach· agreeably disagreeable with Lam·
in)! experie~ce before coming to 
bert.Notre Dame. Therefore, the Irish "We maybe took a step further went lookin)! for a coach and came quicker than we should have," notes up with Art Lambert, who had led the assistant A.D. "I think ourthe men's and women's programs at schedule fits with the philosophyStanford to success. Art has adopted. We're not playing
The Lambert Years 
USC or Stanford, but we're playingIn one·and·a·half seasons, Lam· the best teams in our area. I hope ourbert has compiled a 24·.29 record as schedule won't Improve next year,head coach of the Notre Dame vol­though. so that we can gauge theleyball team. However, that record growth ofour program."doesn't tell tht· story in the eyes of The r•• oblem with the Irish thisBoulat: or Lambert. year has not been losing to those"The most visible thing is the top·20 teams · at this stage of thewon·loss record, but it can't be used program that is somewhat expected.
as a gaugt·," warns Boulac, who has A
Notre Dame's biggest trouble has
kept a watchful eye on the volleyball A
been an inability to beat all the program since assuming his post in teams they should beat. The Irish
191H. 
seem to have a confidence problem"Things have been much more at times, something which could bedillicult with a freshman and sop· a result oflosing so many matches tohomorc team. Plus, the injuries to high-caliber opponents.Mary Md.aughlin and to Jill Suglich "This team needs to find out how up~t·t the girls more than anything." to win," agrees Lambert. "We spend"I'm not disappointed with the as much time on that in practice as progress we've made," says Lambert, anything else. We work on cxecut· 
~ .......................! 
~\~ 

.
NOTRE DAME presents: 
.~\~\~~:e ROCK·A·LIKE : 
1111111 IIIII IIII 111111111111 I 11111111111 II rllllll Ill I 111111 llllllllllltllll&llllll 111111111 
~\' ....~ Up sync contest? i 

JOSEPH HOLMES 
You can still enter your group! 
i

DANCE THEATRE 
Drop by the Student Activities Board offices
::::m:::::::::::::::::m::::::rs.::::.:::.:-:::::::::;; 
Premiere Chicago Group's First Area Appearance 
on the second floor of Lafortune. 
SAT., NOV. 16-8P.M. Remember: 
Washington Hall-Notre Dame Campus :
! Rehearsal Tuesday, NOV 12, 7 pm,
Sponsored by: The Student ActiVIties Board Cultural Arts Comm1ss1on rtckets 55 ND/SMC students 
i Chataqua Ballroom 
58 General Acjmtsstan
Around the Corner Club 
:
: Dress Rehaersal Wednesday, NOV 13, 7 pm
The Block Cultural Arts Council ,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,....... 
+ Stepan Center : 
The Observer Tuesday, November 12, 1985 -page 14 
Junior cornerback 
.spence helping defense to improve 
By MIKE SZ\'MANSKI during our homestand because of State. Sports Writer fan support. We had to protect ter­"Since Penn State runs the ball ritory here since it is our own back­very well, they use the play-action 
Throughout the season the Irish yard. pass extremely efficiently," said defense has improved in many ofthe "We made defensive adjustments Christoff. "As a result, the defensive same ways as Notre Dame corner­to control the passing game of our backs must be able to react quickly back Marv Spence, who according to opponents," he continued. "You can to the run, but maintain pass protec­defensive coordinator and secon­never completely stop a passing tion." dary coach Andy Christoff, "has game. We try to disrupt pass pat­The challenge of Penn State's become much more aggressive and terns and confuse the quarterback potent offense, though, will not be consistent." with different zone and man the only motivating factor for 
coverages." Spence.
Spence, a 5-11, 180-pound junior Spence is well-suited to read of­"Being from Pennsylvania, this is from Chester, Penn., can play both fenses since he was an all-district of­already a big game for me," he says.
cornerback positions but usually al­fensive selection as a high school "We are fired up to play Penn State. 
ternates four-down series with Mike senior, throwing for more than 1500 This is a great rivalry. We are gladHaywood. Spence also plays the cru­yards, rushing for 610 yards, and that they are ranked number one be­cial outside containment position scoring 13 touchdowns. He has one cause a victory will give us the op­
on the kickoff and punt coverage interception this season. portunity to gain respect. 
teams. 
Spence was recruited as a wide "Besides that, I can't go home if receiver and defensive back, but we do not win."
"I feel my strong points lie in my 
made the decision to concentrate on
speed and strength to go up against 
defense because "there was a better
receivers on pass plays and in my 
chance to play where they needed
ability to avoid the blocks of ful­backfield depth." • 




Irish
lbacks on run plays," said Spence. 
Spence does not agree with those
"His excellent quickness enables who have said that Notre Dame op­continuedfrom page 16 him to support the run well," adds ponents play with more intensity. "We only lost to Division I schoolsChristoff, "while his consistent play "We get up for the game just as that award scholarships and one
in the backfield allows for few much as the other teams. I per­nationally-ranked Division Illmistakes (in pass coverage)." 
sonally am not a screamer. I would school. 
For Spence and the Irish defense, rather concentrate on learning the "We improved greatly in passing this has been a season of trials and game plan and my responsibilities." and ball control, which were my tribulations. Spence will do just that as the Irish main goals coming into the season. 
"It was tough losing at the begin­prepare for possibly the most Impor­These girls have improved their ning," said Spence. "But I think that tant game of the season Saturday stickwork tremendously over the we really turned things around against number-one ranked Penn past two years." 

defense bas shown steady improvement over tbe courseofthe season andpartofthe reason bas been tbe steady play ofSpence. Mike Szymanskifeatures tbe dedicated player in his story above. 

ExdtJng and Challenging Career Opportunities 
Master of Business Administration 
A small. highly selective MBA program has been designed by The Ohio State University ro provide professional management education to students with nonbusiness academic backgrounds. This two-year full-time program 
• 
facilitates a high level of student and faculty-student interaction 

• 
has no prerequisite course work 

• 
is espeCially attractive to students with liberal arts. scientific. and other nonbusiness backgrounds 

• 
is built upon a tightly integrated study of foundation management tools and concepts 

• offers the opportunity to concentrate in one or two management fields through elective course work 

• 
is offered by one of the top 25 schools of management in the country and is accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business 


Last year's graduates were very successful in finding career opportunities. Examples of positions they selected include the following: 
• 
assistant to the chief executive officer. Midland Mutual Life 

• 
field marketing manager. Ford Motor Company 


• 
management trainee with an international assignment. Chase Manhattan Bank 

• 
assistant product manager. Pillsbury 

• 
financial analyst. Hewlett Packard 

• 
inventory control manager. IBM Corporation 

• 
account executive. Merrill Lynch 

• 
consultant. Price Waterhouse 

• 
management trainee with an international 


assignment. Procter and Gamble For abrochure describing this program and application information. please contact: 
Director, l!IBA Progr­The Ohio State University 11 Z Hagerty Hall 1775 College Road Columbus,. OH 43Z1G-1399 
614-4ZZ-851 1 

The Ohio State University 

1~ Ubscrver/Chattanya Panchal 
Tbe Notre Dame field hockey team closed out its season at the Midwest Regional Tourney in Carbondale, Ill. last weekend by finishing third in tbefield. Tbe two wins and two losses completed the Irish season record at 12-8-1. Rick Rietbrockgives details in his story Qn page 16. 
~ -r: CAMPUS ALL -NIGHTER 
(/~ Nov.15,6pm·l'lov.16,11 am ~# attheACC 
ENTRIES AVAILABLE AT NVA AND AAF DEADLINE: WEDNESDAY, OOV. 13 CQv1E SUPPORT SPECW. Q YMPICS 
(AND HAVEAGREATTIME) 

EVENTS 
SKATINGBASKETBALL· MEN'S AND WOMEN'S AEROBICSINDOOR SOCCER· MEN'S AND WOMEN'S TABLE GAMESCOREC INNERTUBE WATER POLO RECREATIONAL SWIMMING BROOMBALL· OPEN DIVING FOR DOLLARSCOREC VOLLEYBAU MUSICSQUASH· NOVICE AND ADVANCED CONCESSIONSRACQUETBALL SINGLES-MEN'S AND WOMEN'S MARCf>POLORACQUETBALL MIXED DOUBLES INFORMA'. USE OF ALL FACILITIES IN ACC

TABU' TENNIS SINGLES AND DOUBLES NERFFOOTBALL-OPEN WHIFFLE BALL -OPEN WATER BASKETBALL· OPEN 


SPONSORED BY NVA 
SUNSHINE PRDMDTIDN PRESENTS: 


JOHN COUGAR 
~---~--­

MELLENCAMP 
THE SCARECROW TOUR 
Saturday, Nav•mb•r tli, B:DDpm N1.,tr• Dam• R.C.C. Rll••at• r•••rv•dI t4.5D 
tickets available at the ACC Box Ofllce, area Sears, Robertson's, Elkart Truth J.R.'s Music Shop (La Porte), 
,St. Joseph Bank (Main Ofllce) Record World (Goshen) and Music Magic(Benton Harbor) 
-~-----------~---------~-------------~----­




'JI['~t:ll.at~-------------------------------------------T·u·e-sd_a_r_._N_o_v_e_m
..be_r__I_z_._I9•8•5---.P.ag_e__I..s 

Bloom County 

---·-­

1HcRt Mf/5 CONFI/SION 
MY (;OSH YOV PIP 
50 MIJCH .. CONfll5tON ·= 
IT 'IOU &0! f/ 
THeY. MY l/lM05T r 
CHOPf'€fl1Hf 6Nfl OFf Of
MJ5f JOf'> fiT 1H{ 
MS. /Jtt..ECOI?T '5 11(}56 1/NP
&r04,, JOliN COt.LINS 
.• Pllfl{f 4NtI lfO()Y­
MV( ME BOSOM I ~'I
WRA C?tNIC 
IMI'/..1/!ITS " 
/~ ---~.
\~-:)I_ 
I ... 

"": Vf 
~~! r£?f~)
I'<-.
J 
~ 
·'/-;:; ' --' . \ 
Zeto 
WHAT A60UTQW.'IOS THIS F'R£<.0 AND 
VIF?.OINiA wOLFf'~'{) 
Hfl.J ro suCCEEt> tN 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Jeweled 
headdress 6 Mine output 9 Persian title 
13 Ludicrous behavior 14 Barroom feature 
15 Facility 16 Quite a guy 19 Make soggy 20 Musical work 21 Bedeck 22 Diamonds or 
clubs 23 Utah's flower 25 Quite a hand· 
some guy 31 Royalty's realm 32 Unusual 33 Costello or 
Gehrig 34 Eternal 
springer 35 -Betty 37 Bowllngor 
rolling 38 Diamonds 39 Unfortunate 
happening 40 Attain 41 Qultean 
Important guy 45 City acreage 46 Landlord's 
concern 47 Monastery VIP 50 In order 51 Be obligated 54 Quite well-to· 
do guys 58 Oriental nurse 59 Dregs 60 Musical 
characters 61 Auld lang ­62 Depressed 63 Feel aimlessly 
DOWN 1 Bugle call 2 Jap. box 3 Take -from me 4 -Tin Tin 5 Enumeration 6 Boorish 
persons 
~~-'"' 

1985 Trtbune Medta Servtces. Inc. All Atghls Reserved 
Monday's Solution 
7 Waterwa~· 6 Pixie 9 Every now and 
then 10 Nimbus 11 Old instrument 12 Cut with an 
axe 14 Established 
passage 17 Heroic account 16 Tidal flood 22 Kingly title 23 G.B. or Irwin 24 Deserve 25 Canine pet 26 Indian coin 27 Monarch's 
headpiece 26 Of a pelvic 39 Thin soup 49 Rough cereal bone 40 Cleansing with 50 Meat dish 
29 The present water only 51 Eight: pref. 30 Spurt 42 Hat 52 Cry 31 Memo 43 Stage Items 53 Existence 35 Blemish 44 Hindmost area 55 Total 36 Tiffs 47 Amo, -,amat 56 Modern: pref. 37 Confined 48 "-Love" 57 Conjunction 


Campus 
•9:00 
A.M. -5:00 P.M. · Sign ups for Senior reflection groups 

•12:00 
P.M. · Seminar, "Political Participa· tion in a Democratic Context: Some Issues and Very Few Answers", Guillermo O'Donnell, Academic Director, Kellogg In· stitute, Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies • 3:00P.M.· 6:00P.M.-Open House, Carnival of Careers II, Angela Athletic Facility, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Govern­ment 

•4:00 
P.M. -Lecture, "Investment Banking ­Past, Present and Future", Jose Fernandez, 


~~~~.':llale ._._~ 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary J..arson 
Kevin Walsh 
SO, tN.(ffi£R. WCJWS, :::} 
~AWRJL. AUTH~S OF ::!: TEr>too5n~''t s... ~ 
THATS R/6HT, IM IN ALL1liREE' SECTICN$! 

Garbage dumps of the wild 
• president of Drexel, Burnham, Lambert In­
vestment  Banking  Firm,  Hayes-Healy  
Auditorium,  Sponsored  by  Notre  Dame  
Finance Club  

•4:30 
P.M. -Lecture, Predator and Diet Induced Developmental Polymorphisms in Rotifers, Professor John Gilbert, Dartmouth College, Galvin Life Science Auditorium 

•7:00 
P.M.-Film, "The Barrier", ETS Theater at the CCE 

•8:00 
P.M.-11:00 P.M.· Singer/Entertainer, That's Entertainment, Brian Huskey, Haggar College Center Chameleon Room, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Govern­ment 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Roast Top Round of Beef Sweet and Sour Pork Fish Square Sandwich Cheese and Vegetable Pot Pie 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 16 MASH 22 Three's Company 16 Barney Mlller 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 16 TheA·Team 28 Who's The Boss? 34 NOVA 28 Growing Pains 46 Blackwood Brothers 
16  Riptide  
22  CBS  Tuesday  Night  Movie:  
"Wild Horses"  
28  Moonlighting  

34 WAR: "Shielding America: Can 'Star Wars' Make Us Safe?" 
Saint Mary's Grilled Pork Chop Spaghetti with Meat or Marinara Sauce 

Cheese Souffle  
46  Lcsea Alive  
!O:OOP.M.  16  Remington Steele  
28  Spenser: For Hire  
46  Dwight Thompson  
ll:OOP.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  WSJV Newswatch 28  
34  Body Electric  
46  Praise the Lord  
11:30P.M.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Simon  and  Simon/CBS  Late  

Movie: "Cool Mllllo: Hunt fur a 
Lonely Girl" 28 ABC News Nlghtllne 34 Film Du jour: "The Last Mile" 

!2:00A.M. 28 Eye On Hollywood !2:30A.M. 16 David Letterman Show 2:00A.M. 22 Nlghtwatch 
46 Independent Network News 

~.... .. '· . ~>.»;.<;,..., i)lMJ<~~:'&!~:-:."!•c;:· ·~•;-·;.; 
i ~;~It l! -. 
~ J~~{'liii
9
~ / .: 
~ p''l-. 
~~~... ::»JW~®~~,..xc~:.xw~Oilii!<!,D~R NO,!!!CA!.~ 283-4242 Mon :!!,!~;,;?.J
-·~~.r-~·~ _ 


W~t 1Jris~ <&arbeils· : 
Basement of Lafortune:Enter through door near Crowley I. 
Discount for weekend flowers ordered in advance ~ . Hours 1 
i 
J 
I 
-
l I 
J 
... 

Tuesday, November 12, 1985 -page 16
S~orts 
ND volleyball team strives to be national power 
McLaughlin handles fate, leads Irish 
By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
Perserverance and hope. Senior setter Mary McLaughlin ofthe Notre Dame volleyball team has both. 
Bruised, battered, and at times, bewildered, is how the 1985 season 
-
has left the team captain. The team has suffered the slings and arrows of a year that has been a little less than kind, and in addition, McLaughlin has had to overcome a mid-season broken finger that kept her out of the starting lineup until just last week. 
But now she is back and ready to play tonight as the Irish face 16th­ranked Purdue at 7:30 under the south dome ofthe ACC. 
"The season has been frustrating," says McLaughlin. "This team, not being as good as it could be, is upset­ting. We've lost to some teams that we just shouldn't have lost to. Our record ( 10-16) isn't what it could be." 
The reason, as she sees it, is over­all inexperience. 
see CAPTAIN, page 12 

· Young Irish program hopes to build with present youth By CHUCK FREEBY team at that stage. Sports writer After a 3-18 record in the program's first year in 1980, Notre Patience is an heightened virtue. Dame began recruiting scholarship -Chaucer athletes and making progress. The Remember those words when Irish jumped to 14-22 the following you think about the Notre Dame vol­season, and decided to make the leyball team. jump to Division I. In that first Division I campaign, In 1983, Irish athletic ad­the Irish posted a 25-9 record but ministrators decided they, were against primarily a Division III ready to make the commitment to schedule. When Notre Dame's bring a top-flight volleyball program schedule moved up to teams of Divi­to Notre Dame. Two years later, the sion I caliber in 1983, the record Irish are ·struggling with a disap­plummeted to I 1-30, and changes pointing I 0-16 record. Still, there is were in the \-vorks. talk that Notre Dame could someday 
"In our discussions about our
be a national volleyball power. 
program, Mr. Corrigan wanted anot­her visible sport for women," recallsSomeday is somewhere down the 
Assistant Athletic Dtrector Brian
road, however, and no one knows 
Boulac. "Volleyball was popular in
just how far down the road it is. 
the area, and we felt it could grow.
Hopefully, an evaluation of the 
Plus, it would allow more visibility
entire program and its outlook for 
for our women's athletic program."
the future will help turn up some 
answers. 

That was the motive behind Notre Background Dame deciding to become a national One of the biggest things people contender in volleyball, which also 
have to remember about Notre resulted in a number of team Dame volleyball is that it's only six changes. First, Notre Dame went to a years old overall. Those first three full scholarship program. Second, years were spent at the Division III Notre Dame decided to change level, and. Notre Dame quickly proved it could be . a competitive see PROGRAM, page 13 

Farley retains football crown with win over P .E. 
ByK.EV1N HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
The lean green Farley football machine captured its second con­secutive championship title Sunday by defeating a talented Pasquerilla East squad by the score of 14-8. 
Farley had to come from behind to repeat as champions, however, as 
P.E. took the opening kickoff and drove 70 yards for the score. 
The drive, which was sustained on the ground, culminated in a 20-yard touchdown scamper by senior run­ning back Elise M-mstrong. P.E. then executed the two-point conversion to take the early 8-0 advantage. 
"We were pretty surprised that they got that far (on the touchdown drive)," said Farley captain Marilu Almeida. "P.E. was really psyched. But our fans played a big part in keeping our hopes up." 
Farley then gained possession and proceeded to march the ball to the 
P.E. 1,2-yard line. Here, however, on a fourth down play the P.E. defensive unit stiffened and forced Farley to surrender the ball on downs. 
"The key to the game was when we were unable to move the ball after our defense held. If we could have sustained a drive, we would have kept momentum and possibly defeated Farley," said P.E. captain Colleen Donnelly of the ensuing PE possession. 
Field hockey team finishes year with third-place finish 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame field hockey team returned from the Midwest Regional Tourney in Carbondale, Ill. this past weekend with a third-place finish. The Irish were seeded fourth going into the six-team tournament 
so  Head  Coach  Jill  Lindenfeld  
expressed  satisfaction  with  the  
team's finish.  

"I'm happy with third place," she said. "I thought we played very hard. Overall, I'm really pleased with the girls." 
Notre Dame began the tourney with a 1-0 loss to fifth-seeded South­west Missouri State, which dropped the Irish into the loser's bracket. They then used_ a 22-8 adyantage in shots on goal to defeat the third seed, Eastern Kentucky, 1-0 on the strength of a Corinne DiGiacomo goal with an assist from forward Molly McCabe. 
Benet DeBerry scored the lone tally as the Irish beat Southwest Mis­souri State in a rematch of their opening-round game. Notre Dame's season ended, however, with anot­her 1-0 loss, this ·time to second: seeded Southern Illinois University. In that game, the Irish managed only seven shots on goal compared to 22 for SIU. 
Coach Lindenfeld said she was especially pleased with goalie Patti Gallagher's 1 5 saves in the final game, and cited-the solid perfor­mances ofseveral players. 
"I thought Patti was simply tremendous in the last game," she said. "In addition, ·Mary Rose Rodgers and Corinne DiGiacomo played very well this weekend, besides those who made All­Tourney." 
Receiving All-Tourney recogni­tion were seniors McCabe and Christina Weinmann, and sop­homore Benet DeBerry. 
The team finished the year with a 12-8-1 record and Lindenfeld said she viewed the season as a success. 
"I'm very happy with the play of the team this year," she continued. 
see IRISH, page 14 

P.E., unable to advance the ball for a score, was forced to punt. Farley~ seizing its opportunity, utilized the option to drive down the field for a touchdown score which cut the Pasquerilla East margin to 8-6. 
The successful Farley drive was capped by freshman running back Suzanne Schwarz's bulldozing five­yard touchdown.run. 
P.E. received the ball back, but was unable to score as time ran out on the first half. Still, it took the 8-6 lead to the intermission. 
The finals were scheduled to be played in the Stadium at 2 p.m. Sun­day. Because of inclement weather, however, the game was moved to Cartier Field and to a 4 p.m. start. 
"We could have scored some more points ifthe field had not been in the sloppy condition that it was," said Almeida. "The conditions had a definite effect on the final score." 
The inclement weather, combined with the rugged play of both determined teams, caused a rash of injuries. On the P.E. side alone, four women were lost to in­juries including star running back, Annie Schrenk. 
"The injuries really hurt us on our last attempted drive," said Donnelly. "Ifwe had had our full lineup, maybe we could have scored." 
In the second half, Farley received the kickoff and proceeded to drive to the P.E. 1 0-yard stripe. This drive was aided by a 35-yard completion from Almeida to sophomore Sue Shelton. 
From there Schwartz ran the ball in for what turned out to be the win­ning score. On a controversial call, Almeida notched the point after to give Farley the 14-8 final ledger. 
P.E:, determined to come back, took the ensuing kickoff and drove past midfield. Its luck ran out at this point, though, when on a fourth­down play the Farley defense proved its worth, stopping P.E. and turning possesssion back to the defending champions. 
see FARLEY, page 10 

Penn State to claim the top spot in the nation this week as it prepares to play Notre Dame Saturday. The complete APpoll and a related story• is on page 10. 







