-------~-----­
Senate races -page 3, 4 

VOL XIX, NO. 91 lhl· indqwndcnl ~!uduH ncw~papcr ~cr\'ing noln dame and ~ailll mary·~ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11,1985 

Browne ousted by OBUD, reinstated by senate SBP candidate admits to campaign violations 
We've admitted our 

By MIKE MILLEN printed without presenting the 
' 


mistakes. We're not

SeniorStaffReporter receipts to Ombudsman. The addi­tional receipts, if included in 

the best campaigners,

Pat Browne andjoanie Cahill, one Browne's campaign total, would of three tickets for student body have pushed the total over the $95 
but we are the best

president and vice president, campaign limit by at least $25, forc­avoided forfeiture oftheir candidacy ing the Browne ticket to withdraw. by a one-vote margin of the Student Mouasher said he talked with candidates. 
Senate. Browne early last week about the 
The senate voted 8-7 Saturday to need to disclose all expenses and ' reinstate the Browne-Cahill ticket "gave him (Browne) a 36-hour after the Ombudsman Election grace period" to report the printing. 
' 

Committee voided the candidacy on Sienkiewicz "saw a stack of the Friday because of failure to report (Browne-Cahill) posters on a shelf' 
Pat Browne 

campaign expenditures properly in the O'Shaughnessy copy center and six other lesser violations. after the Browne-Cahill ticket had 
Ombudsman Director Henry submitted its campaign expenses to Sienkiewicz said the violation was a the OBUD Election Committee and conspiracy from its inception. He a copy center employee confirmed explained, "joanie Cahill admitted to Sienkiewicz that the order had to me that she, Pat Browne, and been filled. (former Browne campaign Browne admitted to the violation manager) Lee Broussard had con­after OBUD confronted him with spired to cheat by not reporting all their findings. 


To be honest, we
campaign expenses-in advance. This Regarding the violations, Browne was premeditated. It was not done in responded, "My intention was to 
' 
were upset. Shocked.

the heat of the moment." win. It was a mistake." 'Ibe senate convened Saturday at Mouasher explained, "In a private 
I don't think there are

the request of Browne and CahilL meeting on Thursday night with Pat, Two of the votes cast in the secret joanie, and me, Pat was so desperate 

any rules any more.

ballot belonged to Browne and to remedy this 'simple little mistake' Cahill, while one vote belonged to he even asked me to rig the election Duane Lawrence, a vice presidential so he would lose the election with­candidate on another ticket. out getting kicked out and losing 
Responding to the senate's rever­face." 
' 

sal of OBUD's earlier decision, Om­Rick Ruehlmann, junior class 
Bill Healy 

budsman Election Commissioner president who resigned his senate Maher Mouasher resigned Saturday seat because of the senate's afternoon. Shortly thereafter reinstatement ofBrowne-Cahill said, Sienkiewicz submitted OBUD's res­"When you're willing to cheat, it's 

OBUD refuses to run the election
ignation "as the official organization not worth it. It's reprehensible." in charge ofstudent elections." "They had no intention of By BOB VONDERHEIDE bewildered by their (the senate's) thirds vote of the senate Saturday to
Sunday, the senate imposed a con­presenting those receipts; it's the striction upon Browne's campaign: issue of cheating." Mouasher 
Editor-in-chief condoning ofcheating." suspend the rules placed the final au­all posters must be removed and all resigned after the vote. 
Browne, who has admitted to thority with the senate. Ombudsman says it won't run the some of the violations, appealed Rick Ruehlmann, junior classcampaigning must cease. Browne said the issue should be 
election. OBUD's Friday decision to the Stu­president and voting member of the
Browne admitted to violating decided by the student body, ar­The junior class has resigned its dent Senate on Saturday. The senate senate, spoke out during Saturday's
Ombudsman election rule seven, guing "they see our violations." which states "failure to disclose the Executive Coordinator Doug 
position on the Student Senate. voted 8-7 to reinstate Browne's can­meeting against reinstating proper cost ofany election materials Wurth said "You can't say 'I'm going 
And a student government execu­didacy. Browne's candidacy. After the sen­... will (result) in forfeiture of can­to impose this (set ofelection rules) 
tive coordinator has quit. Immediately after the senate's ate decision, he withdrew the repre­All three are protests against the decision, the Election Committee of sentation ofthe junior class from the
didacy." and then say that they (Browne and Student Senate's decision this Ombudsman informed Student senate.
After claiming to haved turned in Cahill) are above the violations." weekend to allow the ticket of Pat Body President Rob Bertino that it "Quite frankly, we feel the Stu­
all poster receipts, Browne had Browne and Joanie-Cahill back into would not coordinate the details of dent Senate is a mockery, and we are
2,000 additional campaign posters see SBP, page 3 the race for student body president this Tuesday's election. The senate no longer proud to be members," and vice president. On Friday, had appointed OBUD to run the Ruehlmann wrote to The Observer. OBUD had disqualified the Browne­election, and campaign rules had And yesterday, Ray Wise, student Cahill ticket, citing seven campaign been approved last fall. government executive coordinator
Hamilton named as editor 

violations. "We have decided we can no for University interests, resigned his "I don't understand how Pat and longer effectively run the election," post. "I just can't approve of the ac­
Sarah Hamilton, a junior from 

Joanie can live with themselves with Sienkiewicz said. "Therefore, we tions Browne and Cahill took duringScotch Plains, N.J., has been any sense of honor," said Henry have resigned our appointment." the campaign," he said. "And I don'telected editor-in-chief of The Sienkiewicz, director ofOBUD. "I'm Election rules state that OBUD has believe there's anyway the senateObserver for 1985-86. 
disgusted, appalled, frustrated and authority over disputes, but a two-can condone their actions."
She will assume her duties March 25. Hamilton, who served as a 
Six violations cited against Browne-Cahill
news editor this year, said she is excited about the The Observer's 
By MIKE MILLEN resulted in a forfeiture of candidacy •Campaigning prior to campaigning
potential. 
SeniorStaffReporter because ofoverspending. period
"This year we have wbrked on 

Maher Mouasher, Ombudsman elec­Penalty: Forfeiture ofcandidacy duedeveloping wide coverage of In its list of rule violations by the tion commissioner, witnessed this to third violation of early campaign­both campuses, always keeping Joining the University's budget Pat Browne andjoanie Cahill ticket, viol;~tion. ing rule. 
in mind objectivity and fairness," system last year was a necessary 
Ombudsman presented seven sepa­•Endorsement and campaigning Mouasher had an eyewitness ac­Hamilton said. "Next year this evil, Hamilton said. "From a fin­rate instances. They were: prior to campaigning period count of posters begin put up inphilosophy will become ancial standpoint, budget unit •Printing 2,000 platforms more than Penalty: Warning issued Walsh Hall one-half hour before it
routine." control encourages professional 
the number reported to the election A Stanford Hall newsletter men­was permissible. 
The editor-in-chief, Hamilton and consistent business policies 

committee tioned Browne's candidacy. •Use of club newsletter for cam­said, must understand all facets of and practices," she said. "But we Penalty: Forfeiture ofcandidacy •Endorsement and campaigning paigningthe newspaper -its responsibili­are always concerned with our Browne has admitted to this prior to campaigning period Penalty: Not discussed, according toties as a business, its duties as a editorial independence because violation. Penalty: An 11 percent reduction of OBUD, probably will result in fur-newspaper, and its role as a ser­the people we are reporting on •Campaigning in classrooms campaign spending limit.
vice to Notre Dame and Saint should not be holding our 
Penalty: A 50 percent reduction in A second Stanford Hall newsletter see VIOLATIONS, page~
Mary's. money." 
the campaign's spendinglimit which mentioned Browne. 

The Observer Monday, February 11, 1985-page 2 
I. B . f -· ,· ·· 
n rte · ·__ ,_._.-<.---.:,:.· 
::-· ..., ___ ·, _\.!·.·...-.: • ' .. . ,_ . ..:·­
A police raid of Corby Tavern, I026 Corby Blvd. early Friday morning resulted in 'i 1 people being issued tickets on suspicion of minors entering a tavern. Fourteen of the 51 also were given tickets on suspicion offalse identification. Two were arrested on charges other than violation of state liquor laws. One was ar­rested on suspicion of public intoxication and disorderly conduct. Another was arrested on suspicion of public intoxication and resist­ing law enforcement. State police said the raid was part of a state­wide campaign called Stop Underage Drinking and Sales and was conducted by state police, state excise officers and South Bend police. As of last night, further information was not available from the police. -The Obsen•er 
Students panicked when a false rumor of a Jeanne Dixon-predicted campus mass murder resurfaced at Otterbein Col­lege, Westerville, Ohio. First reported in Nov., 1973, then again in Jan., 1977 and again in Dec., 1980, the rumor returned in Oct., 1984. The false rumor said that Dixon predicted that someone dressed as little Bo Peep would kill 13 students at a small, midwestern, liberal art.~ college starting with the letter "0" on Halloween night. -The 
Obseroer 
Two Notre Danle students, Robert Jon~s and 
Amalia Lopez, were among the 145 students nationwide named fel­lows by the National Consortium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering. Each award provides a fellowship which pays tuition and fees at a member university ofchoice, plus an annual stipend of $5,000 per academic year. In addition, each fellow is as­signed to a paid summer internship with a employer member. -The Obseroer 
Notre Danle Govenunent Professor 
Fred Dallmayr will have a book published by the MIT Press next month. The book is titled, "Polis and Praxis: Exercises in Contempo­rary Political 'Ibeory." Dallymar is the Dee Professor ofGovernment at Notre Dame. -The Obsen1er 
"Taxes " is the title of an essay written by an Indianapolis third grader that appeared in the Congressional Record. "Taxes" describes those enforced contributions to government in this way: "Taxes arc the little bills your Mom and Dad get in the maiL They also hate them. Doesn't everybody?" The essay is the work of Heat­her Taylor, an Indianapolis third-grader. "The reason why you have to pay taxes is because teachers and other workers need money,'' the 8-year-old girl wrote. "Taxes are also for paying for the stuff that you use to build buildings." -AP 


,Of Interest 
Students opposed to alcohol abuse will 
have an opportunity to openly review the effect of alcohol on the social life of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The group will meet this afternoon and every Monday at 4 in Room 316 of the Notre Dame Infirmary. All are invited. -The Obseroer 


Weather 

, 
Snowtoday with an additional accumula­tion likely and a near steady temperature in the middle to upper 20s. Tonight, more snow, diminishing late, then turning windy and colder .'• with blowing and drifting snow. Tomorrow, a 50 percent chance ofsnow showers, becoming windy and colder with blowing and drifting 1·.-.~·.....~ snow. -AP 
I ~ 
The Observer 
Design Editor ............................... Troy Illig 
Dt!sign Assistant ................. Andi Schnuck The Observer (USPS W9 2-4000) I• Typese//t'TS ................. Cathyann Reynold• published Munday through Friday and Vic Guarino on home football Saturdays, exc<-pt Nt!U'S liditor........................... John Mennell durinK t:xam and vacation periods. lbe Copy lidttor................... Margaret McCabe Observer Is puhlished hy the •tudents uf Sports Copy Editor............. Marc Ramirez tht· University of Notre D•me and Saint Viewpoint Copy Editor ......... Dave Grote Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Vit!wpoirlt Layout.................. Dave Grote purt·ha.o,ed for $30 per year ( JlO per~­Features Copy Editor.............. Sam Moore me.rer) by writing The Observer, P.O. Features Layout .......................... Andy Saal !lox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46~56. ND Day Editor .......................... Katy Doyk 
The Observer lo a member of The Ad Dt!sign ....................... Suzanne La Croix A.osoclated ~-All reproduction Ker•in Murpby rights are reserved. Pbotograpber................. Johannes Hacker 



Change the election rules and listen to what they say 
A student body presidential election with one ticket and no one to count the ballots is not the best of situa­tions. 
For approximately two hours Friday afternoon there was only one official ticket, and since Saturday after­noon, there has been no one to officially count ballots. 
Saturday afternoon the elections committee of OBUD resigned because they, "felt (they) could no longer effectively run the election," said Ombudsman Director. Henry Sienkiewicz. 
Student Body President Rob Bertino has addressed the problem by appointing vice president Cathy David to chair a newly created Student Government Ad Hoc Elections Committee to assume the former election re­sponsibilities ofOBUD. 
Pat Browne and Cahill were nearly forced out of the running because of multiple campaign rules vio­lations. 
They allegedly violated the most serious rule -they spent too much money. "It's not hard to do," a 
John p

, L 
.\J
Mennell .. 
Assistant News Editor 
.. ,.. 
would be no problem of overspending, fudging the rules, or blatant cheating. 
Despite the violations ofcampaign rules, Browne was allowed to continue his campaign after a vote by the Student Senate on Saturday. Because of the timing of the announcement of Browne's violations, very few people knew of the void on the ballot that existed Friday afternoon. Ombudsman had ordered the ballots printed with only the Healy/lawrence ticket showing. 
According to election rules, to be recognized as an 
official write-in candidate, a 
300-signature official peti­

former candidate for class 
lion must be presented by 4 office said. p.m., the Friday preceding According to this source elections. Two possible tick­it is easy to "fudge" on what ets attempted to get the you spend. signatures. Only one made 
He used the example of the deadline-and only by 30 the photographs commonly seconds. Had there been any seen on campaign posters. delay it could have been a 
"First you have a friend very lopsided election. take some pictures," he said. There should be at least "Finally you decide on one two tickets on the ballot for to use. Every step costs student body president. money, but you only pay for There are enough am­the one picture." bitious, hard working 
Another example is the people around here so that posters themselves. two tickets should not be "You print up more than that difficult to create. you need in case there is a In the event of the for-
run-off. If there is a run-off you want to put up some fresh posters because some get torn down." 
Because it is easier and less expensive to have posters printed at one time, it is easy to go over budget. "You only report what you use originally," he said. 
According to this former candidate. going over budget is "widespread, it is expected, sort ofan unwrit­ten rule. lf you find out that your opposition has gone over the budget by 530, you don't say anything because you know you went $20 over." 
It is within the rules and outside of the rules at the same time and I submit a fairly simple solution. Student government should control the producton of all campaign materials. lbe rule has failed; Browne went over budget and is still in the election. 
If all campaign materials were controlled by student government, and stamped by them to assure authen­ticity, candidates could still be creative and there 
fciture of all, or all but one, there should be an extension of the deadline until the afternoon of the next Observer issue so people could find out. As it stands, one candidate could know that the other had been violating the rules and not say anyth­ing until there was very little time for any other candi­dates to get on the ballot. 
The 1985 SBP election has been a prime example of how elections should not be run. lbe results of this year's election will effect three-fourths of the current undergraduates. Those three-fourths should make it known that this is not how they would like to see elec­tions run in the future. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
Learn the facts about cancer. 
And make not knowing the risks, one less risk. 

TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 

CaD Chris at: 
234-8997 




-------~----------------------~----------------------------------------.---~ 
The Observer Monday, February 11, 1985 -page 3 

Dance starts MS drive 
By CATIIYANN REYNOLDS dergraduates" basis. The winning StaffReporter school will receive a free concert, courtesy of MlV. 
The Multiple Sclerosis fund All funds must be collected prior ra.J.smg drive began Saturday with to the March 31 deadline. 1,500 people attending a video "United Skates of America", Feb. dance at the ACC. 20, will be a roller-skating event cul­
Aline Gioffre, chairman of the tninating with "The Rock-Alike" "Millions Against MS" drive, re­contest where contestants "dress up ported the campaign has so far and lip sync," like a rockstar, accor­"grossed SS,OOO." ding to Alleva. 
"People are buying buttons and refreshments all benefitting MS. Gioffre explained that the winner They are cotning because thay are of the "Rock-Alike" contest will go 
curious and staying because they on to compete with winners from like it," said Student Body Vice Presi­other colleges participating in the dent Cathy David. MS drive. The winner ofthat compe­MS-drive volunteer Celeste Alleva tition will get a "paid internship for said schools around the country will the summer with MlV," Gioffre said. Center on Friday night. One highlight of the eve­compete in fund raising and be "Pasquerilla West and Stanford ning was a cash bar. judged by the amount of money have sold an incredible amount of 
raised on a "per-student capita ofun-raftle tickets," said Gioffre. 
Dist. 5 candidates address OC difficulties 
However, the senate's discussion By KEVIN YOUNG an off-campus student. He believes discount could be given for mass focused mainly on the violation in­
SBP 
News Staff that as off-campus representative, participation. Hagan would also adv­volving the 2,000 posters because
continuedfrom page 1 
his job would be to address these ocate more frequent bus service to this carried the maximum penalty DistrictS senatoral candidatesjim problems. off-campus destinations such as Student Senator Tom Abood was not and was admitted to by Browne. 

Hagan and Race Thoman agree there Hagan said, "I know the advan­Campus View, and Notre Dame are problems unique to off-campus tages and disadvantages ofliving off­Apartments. living and both believe they could campus, and I am willing to do Thoman believes she can use her be effective representatives. anything necessary to alleviate the off-campus experience to tackle off­
The fifth Student Senate district disadvantages." campus problems. Her list of ac­constituents are those students The candidates agree that trans­complishments include: editor of living off-campus as well as those portation and parking are the two the off-campus newsletter, off­living in the Moreau Seminary. main issues affecting off-campus stu­campus liturgical commissioner, 
Thoman sees her possible role of dents. Multiple Sclerosis fund raising or­off-campus senator as one of making Thoman, a transfer student, feels ganizer, and organizer of the second her constituents needs known to the the plight of the transfer student is off-campus formal. administration. another important issue, while 
Through active representation Hagan believes the lack of an inex­If elected, Thoman would like to Thoman believes that she could pensive meal plan for off-campus see transfer students, especially open better lines ofcommunication students is of major concern. females, guaranteed on-campus between off-campus students and Ifelected, Hagan will push for stu­housing after living off-campus for the administration, and thus better dent parking zones in the front part one year. She believes the Adopt-a­manage the needs ofoff-campus stu­of existing parl<ing lots, and a Transfer program is a good idea and dents. cheaper meal plan for off-campus should be continued. Thoman 
Hagan said that after living off­students. He would like to see a meal would also push for a marked in­campus for three years, he is familiar plan offered to all off-campus stu­crease in the number ofbus shuttles 
with the special problems that face dents during registration, so that a to off-campus destinations. 


When Anne Marie Kollman talks, people listen. 
Or at least we hope you do, Saint Mary's 
Come on out and meet the candidates tonight at 7 in the parlor of Haggar Center. 
Questions will be put to the candidates by a panel of Observer writers and editors. And you'll also get a chance to ask a question or two. What are the biggest challenges facing Saint Mary's? And what can your student government do about them? Don't miss the chance to find out. 

Elections are Wednesday. 

The independent student newspaper sen·in~ :\otre Dame and Saint :\fury's 

pleased with the outcome, "I think we have seta dangerous precedent." 
Senator Javier Oliva criticized OBUD's rule enforcement, "I think you guys are out for blood." He thought OBUD had "malicious in­tent" in enforcing the campaign rules. 
Mouasher thought his decision to forfeit Browne's candidacy fair, "You (the senate) had a chance to approve every rule. If you didn't read them, that's your problem." He said, "We try to help candidates even when they are breaking the rules." Browne's first violation, which carried a fine of 1 1 percent of campaign funds, was never an­nounced publicly by OBUD. 
OBUD also presented six other vi­olations, t.'iree of which it claimed were sufficient to mandate the im­mediate forfeiture of candidacy. 
In the senate meeting Sunday, Stu­dent Body President Rob Bertino said, "I've gotten a few resignations. We don't need those kind ofpeople on the senate." 
A resolution requiring Browne and Cahill to "remove all existing campaign material by 9 p.m., Sunday night" and prohibiting the ticket from "engaging in any future cam­paigning" under penalty of "immedate forfeiture of candidacy" passed. 
In response to OBUD's refusal to participate in the election process, Bertino said he had suspended their funds for the election in order to all­ocate them to the Student Govern­ment Ad Hoc Elections Committee chaired by Student Vice President Cathy David. Bertino added, "We are consideringfurther punishment" for OBUD. 



How to score a lot of points with a single basket. 
your FTD Florist today. Because this is one basket you don't want to miss. 

Valentine's Week is February 8-14. 
The FTD Flower Basket'' Bouquet IS usually less than $22.50 


As Independent retailers. Members of the FTD Floral Network set their own prices. Serv1ce charges and del1very may be add1t1onaL 
,._____®Registered trademark of Flonsts' Transworld Delivery Assoc1ation -------"" 
The Observer 


Flanner residents battle in Dist. 4 
By DAVID BROWN 
News Staff 
Peter Blood, Michael jaeger, and Steven Taeyaerts are all Flanner Hall residents, and all are running for the district four Student Senate seat. 
Taeyaerts, a sophomore Arts and Leuers major, has centered his cam­paign on "getting Pasquerilla East and West and the two towers, Grace and Flanner, back on the map." 
A past chairman of the Lil' Sibs Proposal Commiuee, Secretary of the Flanner Hall Council, a member of the rector's advisory commiuee, and a participant of the Multiple Sclerosis Fund Raising Commision, Taeyaerts says he has the experience to beuer communicate with the stu­dents in his district. 
If elected, Taeyaerts would set up a Senate Advisory Commluee with a representative from each hall in dis­trict four. In the interest of objec­tivity, Taeyaerts said he would accept applicants for the job. 
Taeyaerts also said he would 


Violations 
continuedfrom page 1 
ther campaign spending reduction, resulting in a forfeiture ofcandidacy due to overspending. Cahill, President of the Cleveland Club, used one-quarter ofa one page Cleveland Club newsletter for cam­paigning and neither secured an en­dorsement from the club officers nor paid for the newsleuer printing from the campaign budget. 
No violations were found by 
OBUD  involving  the  Healy­ 
Lawrence  campaign,  even  though  
Ombudsman  Director  Henry  

Sienkiewicz said this ticket was monitored more thoroughly. 
pursue the possibility ofcable TV for his district, more social events, reduced lines at the North Dining Hall, and the installation of exercise equipment in Stepan Center. 
"The Senate is more or less what you make ofit and I am willing to do my best," said Taeyaerts. 
Freshman Michael jaeger is stress­ing communication in his platform. "Without communication the sen­ate cannot be doing Its job," he said. In an effort to auain what he called "necessary student input" jaeger would, ifelected, install an idea box at each residence hall in his district. Also, jaeger would push to insure that each senate meeting had its minutes published. 
jaeger cited his three-year term as high school class president, partici­pation in a leadership forum, his status as an Eagle Scout, and mem­bership on the Police-Community Relations Board of Holland, Mich. as experiences which would enable him to achieve his goals. 

jaeger is concerned with students having to reside in Grace and Flanner study lounges. He also said Stepan Center should be made more available to students. 
Peter Blood, a junior in the Col­lege of Business Administration, is "aware and interested" in "representing the views of the stu­dents" ofdistrict four. 
Past positions held by Blood in­clude: Alcohol Commisioner, Special Projects Commissioner, As­sistant Academic Commissioner, and job Bank Coordinator. 
Blood would like to make the ad­ministration more aware of student social and academic needs, publish a senate newsleuer, and pursue the possibility of converting the two towers into coed dorms. Grace and Flanner "are fit to be coed", he said. 
Bloodsaid the women's dorms are more susceptible to intrusion whereas coed dorms would create "a more stable environment". 
EUROPEAN 
TRAVEL 
We specialize in student trips! 
SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 
• AIR • LAND • GROUP 
• TOURS 






1232-79951 
525 N. MICHIGA!'"-J 

• BLACK • • CULTURAL ARTS • • FESTIVAL· • • Randall Robinson •
• Executive Director, TransAfrica • 
• will be speaking on • "Politics and South Africa" •
•

' r • • • TDNICiHT • 
r 
' • •
•• 7:DDp.m. Library Auditorium • •
~ 
r 
clip and •~we-clip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip~ 

! Counseline i 
~ A 
! -Will Cupid's arrows be flyinl for you ~ ~ &. this Valentine's Day? Try tape 70 ~ 
= 

Monday, February 11, 1985 -page 4 
The Observer 
The independent sttJdent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
1985·86 Managing Editor · and Business Manager 
Applications must be submitted to Sarah Hamilton by 5 p.m. Feb. 15, 1985 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Remember Your Valentine With Flowers From 

Wygants 
Free Deliver~ to ND and SMC 
232·:J:JS4 
We also wire flowers worldwide 
(member FTD and Telefloral) 


~ 
~ 
a. 
"0 8_II 
~ 
C!
fl 
A
= 

-a 
!. • 
I 

-'""''­
~ 
:
1 7 
: 
10 
11 11 
)0 
l1 
JO 
!~ ,.!~ 
)I
Jt 
oliO t4 
11 10 U 
.. 
•~ 
to 110 161 
4101 
•u 
4]\ 
4)~ 
4JJ 471 479 4tl 4fl' 49) 

...-~....u.u.o =-~== 
-loll _u.. .,_.. -,_,~ 
DMU... wtu C.Utr"UCtlft crttlot• 
:::!.':.:!:!.~...., -... to -• wttb It 
-to kJ -.· 
._._.. 0,. to Ottwn ..u... Dllh 
,_,..........0,. ..... .__..w.lhy ._let, ud ...d.h ...,. to Cope VUb It
=
!: ::!,~:_~u.... t-nut.ae lelf-~~..
..,,.lac-Jelr-a.t.. ud C..ftdeftca lel...t.l• bneh•• · C..lal with ''"'' 
r-h S.z lol~• ud Stre.... 
111.11 S.• lola-~1 .... StniMI .......lae to Accept Youraolf W..t h Thna" &Dil IIMf to Uaa It Iafat•tlon or Loft~! .._ to eo,. lf1U11 a hokeD lelatlonaMp Dll6th and Dp'tne lWeratancU.aa Cirlef ••, ..... ,.,.... larlJ Sl... of u elcohol PTobl-I..JOftllble O.clelona about Dr'l.rt.ktne Self ...eru....... ~h• of Contrut auu•1n.1 ..., h Depr•··~Oft 
Mow to Deal with p.p•n..lon ~·••lon u • Llf••t:Jl• lac::-Uac lndepa1•,.t: fTaa Parenu Dull--. vlt:b Alc"'"tod.c ParHtl Sulcldal Crhl• leeoplalne Sulcldal rounUah 1n ou..u Helpln1 s._.. ln a Sulcldal Crhll 
! 
;n 6. 
~ 
= 
00 
118. 
; C 
~ 
"0=111 
:s 

Hours: M-Tburs 4-12 pm 
Friday 4-8 pm ------­
Notre· Dame Election Special The Observer Monday, Februar-Y 11,1985 
'85 
Student Government Elections 


Tomorrow Notre Dame students will go to the polls to elect a student body president, vice president and senators. The Observer asked both sets of candidates for president and vice president to answer five ques­tions which the News Department selected as pertinent to this year's elections. The responses are printed below as the candidates submitted them to The Observer yesterday. The candidates had to abide word limits on each question. 


Q: 
What is the most pressing issue facing Notre Dame students? 

Q: 
Do you think there should be a student on the Board of Trustees? 

Q: 
In what direction do you think student gov­ernment should lead the social life on campus? 

Q: 
How much influence does student govern· ment have on campus and how much should it have? 

Q: 
If you are elected to office, what will you add to the University? 


The most pressing issue facing Notre Dame stu­dents today is the overall student life on campus, es­pecially the social environment. Considering the overall student opinion toward this problem, we feel that only a cooperative effort between students and the administration ( ie. financial funding for student programs and social facilities) can remedy this con­cern. Effective student leadership is paramount in conducting this shared effort. We are confident in our abilities to provide this effective leadership. 
Yes, we feel the most important responsibility of student government is to represent the students to the administration. However, student government has not been extremely effective in this role in the . past. In our opinion, the reason for this ineffective­ness is the lack ofa strong student voice in the admin­istration. Electing a student to the Board ofTrustees will help alleviate this problem. We make reference 
to this in our platform. 
One main purpose of the alcohol policy was to move the concentration ofsocial life out of the halls and place it in central areas. As stated in the PACE Report, the social life at Notre Dame needs to be ad­dr~5sed by the administration and alternatives (whether financial funding for programs, LaFortune renovations or a new undergraduate club) must be provided. Our job is to ensure that the student voice is represented concerning these alternatives. 
Recently student government has not been effec­tive in its role as the student voice to the administra­tion. Personally having worked effectively with the administration, we think that student government as a body can reflect our past successes by gaining in­creased influence in the future. We believe the first .step in achieving this goal is to reorganize the inter­nal structure of student government so that it runs efficiently and without overlap. 
Our most significant addition will be an effective student government. We feel the only way to do this is to increase contact and communication with the students in order to utilize a stronger student voice in effectively dealing with the administration. Stu­dent government cannot be effective ifthe members it represents are apathetic to its efforts. Only by bringing student government closer to the students can we achieve this goal for the University. 

Bill Healy· SBP Duane Lawrence · SBVP 
Last year the students' number one concern was the Alcohol Policy. Now there is a terrible problem with social life and it's solution must be made top priority. We will set up a permanent committee on social life; push for the establishment of an Under­graduate Club; and sponsor a Winter Festival inJanu­ary. Working closely with the Hall Social Commissioners, we will fight for a better Social at­mosphere here at Notre Dame. 
We feel strongly that there should be a student representative on the Board. We believe that stu­dents have the right to voice their opinion about their education. This student will be able to present student concerns to the Board as well as student re­action to current policy. The "student voice" at Notre Dame needs to be listened to more often; a representative on the Board would be a good step in this direction. 
The establishment of a consistent place for social interaction is a necessity here at N.D. Prior to the completion of an Undergraduate Club we will push for a restaurant/entertainment center on 2nd floor LaFortune. This will provide a place for dating/socializing on a regular basis and along with "special" events now held, will provide the neces­sary alternatives students need to have. Social life will be our first priority. 
Student Government has the possibility to ac­complish much and we feel it can be very influential in students' lives. Our attitude is that Student Gov­ernment is as successful as students wish to make it. For this reason we wish to get more students in­volved and have the students make decisions con­cerning their social life and education. We feel the use of "Student referendums" will add to the legitimacy and scope of Student Government next year. 
We feel we can provide the type ofleadership nec­essary to make Student Government a very respec­table part ofthis university. We are excited about the opportunity to work with and for the students of Notre Dame. We have a positive attitude toward changes in Student Government and Social Life. We would like to start building Student Government into a highly professional organized and effective part ofthis university and the N.D. community. 





VieW~_O_i_n__t_________
N1o-nd_ar_,F_eb_ru_ary_l_l,_l9_ss_p_ag-e6 
l r 
OBUD is undermined by Student Senate vote 
In a special session Saturday morning, the Student Senate overturned Om­budsman's decision to disqualify the Browne-Cahill ticket and reinstated it on the ballot for student body president and vice president. 
lbis decision, passed by an 8-7 margin, is a serious blow to the integrity of the Student Senate and the election guidelines it passed last fall. 
Earlier this year, Student Rody Pr-esident Rob Bertino pushed for clearly defined electic}P. rules and the consolidation of their enforcement under Qrr.budsman. This legislation was intended to address an election system which in past years has been wrought with fraud. But this year when the violations continued, the rules were ignored. 
In what was clearly a partisan decision, members of the Student Senate chose to protect their favorite son and their own interests. The senate mem­bers who voted in this decision included both Browne, a student senator, and Cahill, one oftwo Hall Presidents' Council representatives in the senate. Also voting was Duane Lawrence, the other HPC representative and the vice presidential candidate on the Healy-Lawrence ticket. 
At the Saturday meeting, Ombudsman Director Henry Sienkiewicz cited seven violations by the Browne-Cahill organization. The major violations include exceeding the campaign expenditure limit and early campaigning. Browne and Cahill admitted that they conspired to exceed the spending limit. They also admitted to campaigning early. 
Ombudsman did its job and did it well. Sienkiewicz closely scrutinized the progress of each campaign and documented the Browne-Cahill viola­tions. But when it came down to enforcing the rules, Ombudsman's author­ity in the election process was undermined and student government's ability to enforce election rules in the future was left suspect. 
Ombudsman did its part. But when the Student Senate was asked to make a tough decision, enforcing its own election rules, it failed, leaving students to wonder whether elections at Notre Dame will ever be fair. 

The Observer endorses neither candidate 
Tomorrow, Notre Dame students must choose between a ticket of ques­tionable integrity and one ofquestionable ability. The Browne-Cahill ticket is now stained with the admission of campaign violations, and the Healy­Lawrence combination offers little in the way of specific remedies to stu­dent problems. 
In short, the choice is not pretty. . 
Pat Browne and )oanie Cahill made a conscious decision to violate election guidelines because in Browne's words, "We wanted to win." Also Browne gracefully tried to cover up his campaign's violations. He asked Ombudsman Election Officer Maher Mouasher to hold the election without disclosing the violations and then declare Healy and Lawrence the winners­regardless of the vote. It was only when Ombudsman confronted them with documented proof of the violations and disqualified their candidacy that Browne and Cahill admitted any wrongdoing and sought an appeal from the Student Senate. 
Both Browne and Cahill have shown definite success in dealing with the administration: Browne with the establishment of the student store, and Cahill with her well-planned presentation to the Board of Trustees on the role of women at Notre Dame. They have good ideas about promoting greater involvement in student government. 
But Browne and Cahill's actions cannot be condoned. Their disregard for guidelines raises questions concerning what means they will use to get what they want. Their actions also have reinforced the attitude that student gov­ernment is just a joke. Their ability to promote constructive change un­doubtedly has been impaired. 
Bill Healy and Duane Lawrence merit consideration. Healy communicates clearly, displaying the polish and finesse of a professional politician. His ideas about restructuring student government, giving senators concrete duties and giving hall presidents a greater voice show initiative and thought. Healy and Lawrence also seem to have a good grasp of the problems with student social life and are committed to addressing them. 
But the Healy-Lawrence ticket has many shortcomings. Both seem to lack a comprehensive understanding of the role of student government in shaping student life. Healy stresses, as his main point, the need to improve student social life. It seems that Healy wants to be little more than a social commissioner. More important issues, such as the University's computer facilities and curriculum in general and the problems involved with delayed LaFortune renovations, seem to take a back seat. 
Healy and Lawrence also lack experience in dealing with the administra­tion. And although their understanding ofthe problems ofsocial life deserve praise, they have no original plans to alleviate these problems. 
Neither the Browne-CahiJJ ticket nor the Healy-Lawrence ticket display both the integrity and the experience needed to represent students in gov­ernment. Therefore, the Observer Editorial Board, in a 6-3 vote, has decided not to endorse a candidate in this year's student body presidential election. 
-The Observer 


Bertino speaks up for Student Senate decision 
As student body president, and chairman and non-voting member ofthe Student Senate, I feel it is my duty to the student body to clarify and put into perspective the senate's activities during the past few days tegarding the candidacy ofPat Browne andjoanie Cahill for student body president and vice president, respectively. While many senate members have voiced strong personal sentiments for both parties involved, I feel a more objective view is appropriate. 
As many of you may remember, when Stu­dent Body Vice President Cathy David and I 
Rob Bertino Student Body President 
guest column 
ran for office last spring, there were many problems · the legitimacy of permitting a write-in ticket, and two instances ofclass tick· ets missing mandatory meetings -where the decision ofthe Ombudsman election commit· tee was not satisfactory to the parties in­volved. lbey petitioned the senate to reverse these decisions and won. 
To alleviate the problem of violators over­riding the decision ofOBUD and appealing di· rectly to the senate, my administration attempted to make a constitutional change. The change would have been an addition to Article VI, Section 1, Point I, and Article 1, Sec­tion 2, Point 13, of the student government constitution, which reads: "The senate shall set regulations for all elections under this con­stitution." The proposed amendment would have added to that statement: "These regula· tions would be in effect throughout the cur­rent senate term without change or amendment. All disputes regarding elections will be under the sole jurisdiction of the Om­budsman election committee." 
Had this amendment passed, no appeal could have been made to Student Senate, and the decision of the OBUD election committee to forfeit the candidacy of the Browne-Cahill 
ticket would have stood. But the amendment 
failed, and the rules remain unchanged, allow­
ing tickets to appeal to the senate. 
The OBUD election committee did their 
job: they were given rules approved by the 
senate, told to enforce these rules, found vio­
lations, and determined the penalty directly 
from the senate-approved rules They should 
be commended for their work. Browne and 
Cahill, however, were simply exercising their 
option to appeal. 
The result of the senate appeal was, by a vote of 8-7, to reinstate the ticket of Browne­Cahill. (As chairman of the senate, I am not constitutionally permitted to vote.) Although the decision was far from unanimous, it was nevertheless a majority. There have been numerous instances where senate votes have not been unanimous, yet the resulting deci­sions have been considered the opinion ofthe senate as a whole. This instance is no different. 'Ibe senate feels the ticket of Browne-Cahill should be reinstated. As punishment, the sen­ate directed Browne and Cahill to remove all campaign materials and discontinue cam­paigning. Again, while some individuals dis­agree with this penalty, it is nevertheless the 
decision of the senate and must stand. 
Some individuals have expressed discon· tent that both Browne and Cahill, along with Duane Lawrence (vice presidential candidate on an opposing ticket), were allowed to vote on the appeal. As voting members of the sen­ate, they may abstain if they wish. They, however, have a right to vote which cannot be denied. 
Finally, regarding the resignation of two Student Senate members, not only do their ac­tions nullify any opportunity for them to voice their opinion on this matter, but also they have forfeited the opportunity to officially represent the students, whose interests they represent, in future decision-making. 

If any other senate members are unable to see beyond their personal opinions and ac­cept the decision of a body chosen to repre­sent the interests of all students, then I will gladly accept their resignations. 

Browne and Cahill discuss their actions 
Yes, we made a mistake. We were wrong and we admit it. We are sorry. But in ack­nowledging our mistak!:, We are not willing to acknowledge our defeat. 
Ombudsman declared the forfeiture of our candidacy, a decision we felt was unjustified, considering the violations on which it was based. Most of these violations were not di­rectly under our control, were unintentional, and in context, were basically insignificant. Our failure to turn in receipts is an action for 
Pat Browne Joanie Cahill 
guest column 
which we can offer no excuse. We feel, however, that a moment's ignorance should not jeopardize your choice ofstudent govern­ment leadership and possibily sacrifice the benefits our ticket would provide. 
Realizing student government is composed of humans (faults and all), we decided to pursue the issue of our candidacy by appeal­ing the decision to the Student Senate. We felt this appeal would lead to a more representa­tive decision, rather than allowing a small 
body <Jf ir.uividuals (the OBUD election com­
mittee) to decide, in effect, who your next 
student body president and vice president 
would be. 
The senate, as a body, apparently agreed with us and in turn passed this decision on to you. The senate formulated a penalty requir­ing us to remove all our campaign materials and forbidding us to distribute any more. In fact, they have forbidden us and our sup­porters to campaign at all. lbe sole exception is allowing this letter to be written to The Observer, which could then decide whether or not to print it. 
Because we sincerely want the opportunity to serve you as student body president and vice president, we have no choice hut to ac­cept these conditions. As a result, we are run­ning on our record of past accomplishments and hard work in student government on be­halfofyou, the student body. Our campaign is based on a willingness and strong desire to work on your behalf to improve the quality of student life. 
You know the facts. While these include our campaign mistakes, they also include our achievements and experience. We can only ask that you accept our apology and take the responsibility the Student Senate has given you In electing the ticket you feel will serve you best. 

Ylftll/'04m ....,.,. w ,_fromyo~~. IfJ'OII 
INJw ,.,. oplltlcm, brlllll1tt ,,.,.,, or
Viewpoint 

bttmorolu COirlllmll ~• .,..,. 
IIJip.rlJf6llt Tbc Obtlcrftrjwt-"" • ,.,_
,_.toP.O.Bo:c Q.

Policy 


"ielYP.~O~i~n~t~--------------------------------------M--on_d_~~'-F_eb_ru_ruy~_ll_,_I_98_5__~P~ag~e-7 


Rules, regulations and du Lac's absurdities 
recently had occasion (please don't ask why) to read a wonderful little document titled "DuLac: A Guide to Student Life." 
The University's well-known (if not well­loved) Student Affairs Office publishes this pamplet, which makes for some fascinating reading. I particularly recommend du Lac to students ofsociology, psychology, history and law as an interesting case study with relevant applications to their respective disciplines. Engineers, scientists and future businessmen may also find du Lac an amusing alternative to ruminating about life while sitting on the commode. 
The pamphlet begins with a fact-filled chronology of the University's development 
John Neblo outside, looking in 
from its pre-history of the 1830s to the Notre Dame we all know and love of 1985. As any serious student of history can tell you, study­ing Notre Dame past helps one to understand Notre Dame present. For example, duLac tells us that years ago, "Regimentation of student life in addition to classwork included rising at 
5:30 a.m., participation in prayer and devo­tional services, supervised recreation, restric­tion to the campus, silence between exercises, surveillance of mail, curfews...." 
Alas, the more things change.... 
This "history" also includes little-known facts about Notre Dame's academic tradition. In the 1940s, University President FatherJohn O'Hara purged "undesirable books from li­brary shelves" and railed against "the evils of loose living." As du Lac so eloquently puts it, "Better book knowledge could assuredly have been had at many secular schools...." 
Du Lac notes that later, in the 1960s, "the University President was absent from campus more and more..." and that students demanded "a greater role for themselves in University policymaking." 
The sociologist should pay particular atten­tion to the section titled "Academia" (page 10), where the University states its philoso­phy of education: "Notre Dame possesses a 'learning by living' atmosphere, an approach to a responsible lifestyle, and an education in and out of the classroom." The results of this policy can be seen clearly by comparing the social development of Notre Dame students with that of students at less enlightened Uni­versities. 
Under "Athletics," duLac makes the lucid, if somewhat ironic, observation that, "The name 'Notre Dame' no longer brings thoughts of just a football powerhouse, and with good reason." No argument here. 
Most fascinating to me, probably because of my keen interest in law and justice, is the sec­tion titled "University Rules and Regulations." There, students of law wil be intrigued to learn, "Due process in a university is not nec­essarily the same as due process in civil courts with its more elaborate precautions which are required to protect the accused from abuse." A fact well-known to the dining hall workers fired last year. 
Other rules and regulations, though not as well-known, are just as interesting because of their originality and relevance. For example: 
"Regulation 2; Every student must carry a Notre Dame ID card and surrender it when requested by any official of the University, in­cluding campus security police, dining hall authorities, residence hall staff, and members of the faculty. 
"Regulation 4. The Associate V.P. regulates the use ofthe lakes and property adjoining the University. This includes the parking facilities. 
"Regulation 9.b. Firearms are not allowed in students' rooms. A firearm is described as any instrument that causes any missile to be projected. This includes rifle, shotgun, all pis­tols, BB gun, pellet gun, and bow and arrow. 
"Regulations for Student Rooms A.3. A fine of $75 per coat shall be assessed against any student who uses a color of paint not ap­proved for use by the Notre Dame Paint Shop. 
"Regulations for Student Rooms B. The use of the following electrical appliances is prohibited in all residence halls: air­conditioners, broilers, rotisseries, skillets, rice cookers, and other such high wattage appli­ances. Due to the energy crisis these regula­tions will be strictly enforced." 
And finally, why are the University rules and 
regulations accompanied by a photograph ofa 
lightning bolt from heaven striking the 
campus near the dome? 
]obn Neb/o is a senioreconomics majorat Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 


P.O.BoxQ 
Ombudsman Election committee resigns 
Dear Editor: 
We write this letter to explain our Feb. 9 resignation from the elections committee of the Ombudsman. Ombudsman is a hard working and respected organization, ofwhich we were proud to be a part, but recent actions mocking fair play and decency compel us to expose these events. The actions to which we refer include flagrant violations of the con­duct rules, agreed to by the Student Senate and the Ombudsman, regarding candidates for election. 
The most grave violation was a campaign expenditure exceding the amount permitted and campaign rules dictate forfeiture of can­didacy as penalty. This ticket also did not sub­mit the receipts for additional printing which put them over their spending limit. When corifronted with these and other violations, the ticket submitted their withdrawal, and ad­mitted their unethical acts. Subsequently, they choose to circumvent the rules of con­duct by appealing, via the Student Senate, to be permitted to perpetrate their candidacy on our community anyhow. 
We felt we had to take a temporary leave 

from Ombudsman for. as members we could 
not expose this behavior. As we are no longer 
connected with Obud, we must speak out for 
the honesty, integrity and fairplay, that this 
community demands and deserves. 
A major concern ofNotre Dame students is the administration's apparent disregard ofstu­dent opinion. How can we expect the Univer­sity to respect a student body led by people who have lost all credibility and who have shown that they are not above lying, cheating and abusing the student's trust. We think that ifelections are to be taken seriously, we must make it known that duplicity will not be tolerated. 
Nancy McDermott DavidStepbenitcb Maher Mouasber Tom Brennan Ombudsman Election Committee 

Student Senate loses junior representatives 
Dear Editor: 
Throughout the year, we have questioned the credibility of the Student Senate, and Sat­urday's charade confirmed our belief that this body is incapable offunctioning effectively. It is a shame that so many good people have worked so hard for this organization, and now feel embarrassed to be members of it. Quite frankly, we feel the Student Senate is a mock­ery, and we are no longer proud to be mem­bers ofthis organization. 
We respect the fact that Pat Browne admitted his mistakes and now we wish the rest of the senate could do likewise. This year the senate spent a considerable amount of time establishing election guidelines and procedures. We find it a farce that upon the breaking these rules, this same body can so easily reverse their prior decisions. The Stu­dent Senate has done itself a great injustice. Because of the manner in which this situation was handled, we have come to realize a major difference in personal philosophies existing between the Student Senate and the junior class officers. Because of this, we respectfully withdraw our seat from the Student Senate un­til April 1, when new leadership will take over. 
Rick Rueblmann,president Betb McCahill, vice president Dan McMahon, secretary ]obn Spatz, treasurer Officers oftbe class of1986 

Ifyou have an opinion, why not share it? 
If~ would lllte to respond to sometblng you've r«UU In The Observer, wby not write 111 lrnw to tbe editor. Letters sbollld IH well· written, typed, no man· lbGn 250 words In lengtb t~nd must b«w tbe slg-tllre oftbe t~u­tbor. utters rdltcb are notsignedby tbeautbor wm notIHptlbllsbed. 
Lrnws to tbe rdltor can IH mallrd to 1bc 

Ob5ervcr, P.O.Bo« Q, Nottw Dtlmr, Ind. 465S6, or tkllvered to atiHr owNottw Dt1mr of/lu In IAForttm. SIWinlt Cmter or 011r Stllnt Mmy's offtu InH"'JNffT Collrge Center. 
The ~cr I'W!UI'fJf!S tbe rlgbt to edit 11111 materUII submitted to tbe Vlrwpoint Mptlrt­mmtforptlbllca#on. 
Campus comments: Whom would you want to speak at your commencement ? 
Photos by Johannes Hacker 

Ronald Reagan Erma Bombeck, that's who I'd like to Lee lacocca or David Letterman, my Robert Kennedy, if he were alive. The Pope, definitely. hear favorite people, because they both represent the American way. 
Jefi'Fiocchi Celeste Alleva Rob Simpson MoUyShannon Nikki Montoya Senior Senior Senior Freshman Sophomore Accounting English Literature Accounting Arts and Letters Science 


Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in·Chief.  . . Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager.  . .. Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor .  . . Mark Worscheh  Controller . . .  . .Dave Stephen itch  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the op1nion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column  News Editor . . . . . ... Sarah Hamilton News Editor . . . . . ... Dan McCullough Samt Mary's Ed1tor ..... Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor. . . Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor . . . Dave Grote  Advertising Manager ...... Anne Culligan Circulation Manager. . Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. . .. Chris Bowler Proiect Manager . . . . . Amy Stephan  
present the views ol their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters.  Features Editor . . . . . Photo Ed1tor.  . .. Mary Healy . . Pete Laches  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------­


Accent 
Wiping out the time-out blahs 
r 
r 
r holds a part-time job. This unfortun­r ate circumstance arose for the St.
Margie Kersten
r Louis game. When the band played 
r features staff writer 
"Wipe Out," the crowd was disap­
r 
r 
D
O you ever get way out of r control? Adynamic and uniquer spirit surrounds the Notre Dame 
r 
~ 
and Saint Mary's community at sporting events. Seemingly normal, mature and sophisticated students transform into wild, fired-up fans 
who energetically cheer, clap, and yell the Irish to victory. Even with this high standard ofspirit, one student manages to stand out a~ a special example of the Notre Dame fan. 
JeffAnhut, a junior at Notre Dame majoring in History and Psychology, says that he gets "way out ofcontrol" when the Notre Dame Band plays "Wipt· Out" at the mens' basketball games. Anhut is from Ypsilanti, Michigan, 
r and transferred to Notre Dame last 
r 
,.. 
fall from the University of Min­r nesota, where he wrestled on schol­r arship. Anhut is glad he transferred
, 
r 
because he has always wanted to go to Notre Dame; he commented, 
"Notre Dame emulates the college
r 
experience."
r 
When asked why he first started dancing, Anhut replied, "My friend 
r-
r 
r John and I started dancing when the band played 'Wipe Out'-it wa~ real r spontaneous." Anhut continues his 
r dancing because ofthe positive 
r response from the crowd, band and 
r cheerleaders. He feels the purpose of the crowd ami cheerleaders is to
~ fire up the team for victory -he is pr(md to do his part. The spirit he
~ 
inspires is worth the little teasing r 
r ~ 
he receives. 
'Ihe crowd certainly does get "pumped up" at the games. By now, everyone is accustomed to his dancing, and the crowd anticipates Anhut's crazy outbursts. Sometimes, it seems Anhut is riding a surfuoard, while at other times he just shakes his whole body in a torrid frenzy. Whether he is taking off his shirt, wearing a bandana, or covering his eyes with shades, he ignites the crowd with the ease ofan enter­tainer. 
pointed to find a friend in Anhut's 
Anhut is an avid Notre Dame fan, place, holding up a sign that read, following all sports. His favorite "He's at work." Although the crowd sport is football, but this season he chanted, "YOU, YOU, YOU," the has been following the mens' bas-. friend chose not to tamper with ketball team closely. He misses a perfection. game only when he has to work at Anhut is pleased with the team's the East Bank Emporium, where he performance this year; he com­
ments, "Digger Phelps impresses me as a smart coach by playing controlled basketball. They've been playing well and with the players they've got, they will be better." 
The basketball players are aware ofAnhut's uncontrolled spirit, and they think it's great. Star guard David Rivers comments, "He's doing a heck ofa job getting the fans into the game -which really helps out a lot." JuniorJim Dolan agrees, and adds, "I don't get to sec him, but he really gets the crowd going." Even though the players can't watch Anhut dance, they can sense the excitement that he stim­ulates in the ACC; it can only con­vince them of the crowd's support, and inspire them to a superb effort. 
Anhut is appreciative of the band's support; he says, "The band deserves all the recognition be­cause I couldn't dance unless they played. The band and cheerleaders do a great job and they are a big influence in getting people up for the game." Two members of the band, seniors Nancy-Rose Netchi andJulie Schwebel, reciprocate, "We both think he's a great addition to the atmosphere of the games. He generates enthusiasm and gets the crowd involved in the game." Junior Pete Piche, another member ofthe band, adds, "I think it's a great gimmick, and the crowd really seems to enjoy it. He's entertaining in his own uncontrollable way." 
The cheerleaders are glad to see the crowd become more spirited; they only wish more fans would show their own spirit as Anhut does. Cheerleaders Kathy Ravotti and Patrick Wenning agree, "We think it's really positive and ifmore people would take on his attitude it would help the overall spirit of the game." 
Though Anhut may get "way out ofcontrol," it is an expression ofhis enthusiasm for the team. "Some people think the school spirit is ridiculous," he says,"but since I've had the opportunity to be some­where else, I know that's not true." 
What do you think of of the lllan in the stands? 
"I think he's. outrageously entertaining and I look forward to seeing him at all the games." -Janet Greene, sophomore, Saint Mary's. 
"He's better than the cheerleaders, but he's not as good as Kempton." -Larry Stevens, sophomore. 
"I enjoy him very much. He livens up the games when they're boring because the games are notjust for the players." -David Heringhaus, senior. 
"I think its fun and entertaining and he keeps the momentum ofthe game going. The crowd really gets into it and everyone looks for him when the band plays." -Jayne Akalaitis, sophomore, Saint Mary's. 




11, 1985 -page 8 -9 

A world of talent in Washington Hall 
Lisa Visingardi 
features staff writer 
ast Saturday night, the Inter·Lnational Student Organization held their annual festival in Wash· ington Hall Auditorium. This year's theme, "To Teach," was a continua· tion oflast year's, "Imagine." Last year, the international students presented the world as it could be, a world filled with peace and love. FESTIVAL '85 strived to teach us how it should be. 
This message was sent out through 19 acts, featuring songs, dances, skits, and the various talents ofstudents from around the world. Emceed by Louisa de Mello and Winston Griffin, the show was dedicated to all the children on the LS.O. Adoption Program. 
Opening the show was the Lebanese dance act Debkeh. Dedi· cated to the people who are caught in the struggles within Lebanon, the dance set the mood for the show by demonstrating the unique ethnicity ofeach act to follow. Next, the Bahamian skit showed the "personality" ofa Bahamian woman who has just arrived in the United States. Walking into the 10 a.m. mass at Sacred Heart, the woman, played by Karen joseph, disrupts 

the services with her native out· bursts of'Praise the Lord'. When confronted by the congregation, in particular an old friend who has become 'Americanized,' she retorts by singing, ''I'm a better woman than you." 
One ofthe returning acts, Martial Arts, featured the TaeKwonDo Club. The members expressed their talent and power through a series of falls, one-on-one combat, and board breaking. A welcome addition this year was a Kung Fu artist, David Scott, who demonstrated an ad· vanced empty-hand form and the weapon kata with a seven-linked chain. 
After the excitement of the Mari· tal Arts was the pleasant calypso song, "A Man and A Group of Animals," performed by Ballayram. The song pointed out how we, as human beings, humorously entrap ourselves by contrasting our "superior" qualities to various animals and then asking the ques­tion, "Who is more civilized, the man or the jackass?" Finding it hard to answer the question, the audi· ence laughed heartily. 
Adeptly following this song was a filler entitled "Tarzan," in which the long haired apeman gave out a bellQwing call of the wild while running out of the audience and onto the stage. 
Returning back to campus, "The Hearing Aid" skit presented Bill Clarke, Howard Reeves, and Narshma Santoramanshi's opinion ofthe inadequacy of the infirmary. The humor arises from the futile efforts ofa young man in trying to obtain a hearing aid. The eye doctor is called in, takes the ear doctor to 
·his room, discovers his mistake and then gestures the coat rack into his room. The act ends with a robbery of the offices as the deaf ear doctor and blind eye doctor wrestle with each other. The concluding com· ment ofthe robber is "I didn't know it would be so easy to rob the infir: mary." 
In a Spanish duet, Angel Delgado and Dolores Toublanc moved the audience with the romantic ballad "Las Begonias." An added bonus was Delgado's witty comments before the song, which provoked laughter and audience participa· tion. 
Concluding the first half was a hand-clapping, foot-stomping polka song that brought to mind images of a Polish wedding. Leading the band was Frank Vidergar, who plays a mean accordian. 
After a short intermission, the second halfbegan with three belly dancers, who enticed the audience with a seductive and exotic dance. It was disappointing when the next act to follow took us back to the one place everyone tries to avoid on the weekends -the classroom! Seeking a member of the audience to accompany him on a tour ofa few classes going on, Winston Grif­fin was fortunate enough to dis­cover Student Body President Rob Bertino present. When asked what he knew about the academic life on campus, Bertino replied, "Not too much!" To rectify this misfortune, Bertino and the audience was allowed to listen in on four classes, including Biology, Philosophy, Theology, and Government. 
The piano recital by Mike Szat· kowski spanned time and space by performing a medley ofpieces from various parts ofthe world. Begin· ning with a recital which is usually given by a beginner pianist, Szat· kowski advanced in talent and years while taking the audience from Paris to Poland. 
The disappointment ofthe fes· tival was two acts which were per­formed back-to-back. 'These were "British Visit ofSouth American,'' and "Disunited Nations." The first, which was supposed to be a mock· ery ofthe Falklands-Malvinas con­flict, relied too much on stupid 
-

actions for audience laughter. Mar­garet Thatcher was portrayed in poor taste as was the issue at hand: a toilet-paper manufacturer's strike. The audience was subjected to further poor taste in "Disunited Nations," as representatives from the United States, Lebanon, Brazil, Chad, the Soviet Union, and Israel attacked each other with crude one-liners. If the message was to demonstrate the fallacy ofthe United Nations, it could have been presented with a finer sense of taste. 
The saviors ofthe second half were the last two skits, in which the message of the festival was ex­plained. In the skit" War," the audi­ence witnessed the tragedy of man's gteed and selfishness. Wearing arm-bands with the names ofthe countries which they were portray­ing, the actors explained the pres· ent solutions to the problems facing each nation: death. As the new answer ofpeace and brotherhood was proposed, the result was the abandonment ofhate. 
ln the finale Winston Griffin asked those members ofthe LS.O., who are tomorrow's worla leaders, to remember this message, and to teach it to those they will come in contact with in the future as they had just taught it to the members of the audience. In a fitting finale, everyone was asked to join in sing· ing the song," We'd Like to Teach the World to Sing"; this was achieved in Washington Hall Satur· day night. 
Fight against MS is off to a strong start. . • with some help from MTV 
Students gathered in the south dome ofthe A.C.C. on Saturday night to participate in the first event ofthe Millions against .~!S campaign. Those who attended watched, listened and danced to a wide variety of videos, ranging from Billyjoel to Cindy Lauper, compliments ofMIV. 

Jim Clevenger, Chris Soha, John Logan, and Pete Sawin stop dancing long enough to ham for ihe camera. 
----· .. ------·--·--­
~-·---­

-
-
Monday, February 11, 1985-page 10 



Sports Briefs 
Pair disagreed with MVP choice 
The Notre Dante Squash Oub will play host 
Bird, Thomas losers for first time 
to the regional Insilco tournament next weekend at the ACC. Two 
winners will receive an expense-paid trip to Chicago in April. All members of the student body, faculty and staffare invited to sign up by Wednesday in the ACC.-The Observer 
An interhall wrestling tournament is 
being sponsored by NVA. The deadline for submitting entries is Wednesday. For information, contact the NVA office at 239-6100.­
The Observer 
An indoor soccer tournamentis being held 
by NVA, beginning Monday, Feb. 18. The deadline for submitting nine-player rosters is Friday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Knee injuries from sportswill be discussed by 
Dr. Leslie M. Bodnar, senior consultant of the Notre Dame sports medicine program, on Tuesday, Feb. 19 at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC. Admission to the lecture is free. -The Observer 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -The 35th Na­tional Basketball Association All-Star game was a bittersweet experience for Larry Bird and Isiah Thomas, who were the top scorers for the East team but played on the losing side in the mid-season showcase for the first time. 
The NBA record crowd of 43,146 at the Hoosier Dome gave the big­gest cheers to the two Indiana prod­ucts, but All-Star Most Valuable Player Ralph Sampson led the West to a 140-129 victory, snapping a five­year winning streak by the East. 
"This is just one game a year, so it definitely is a thrill," said Bird, playing in his sixth straight All-Star game since coming to the Boston Celtics as the college player of the year from Indiana State in 1979. "This year especially, since I had the opportunity to come back here and play." 
minor injuries during the game and sat out portions of the second half. 
"Injuries don't bother me that much," said Bird, who left the game for three minutes in the fourth quar­ter after getting socked in the nose. "I just play with it, unless I bust up my ankle and can't play." 
Thomas suffered a thigh injury in the second quarter. He didn't play in the third period and left the game with six minutes to go in the final quarter. 
Both players were impressed with the new domed stadium, which seats more than 60,000 for the In­dianapolis Colts' NFL games. 
"It was a first-class weekend," said Thomas. "The (host) Indiana Pacers did a great job with it. But the place was so big, whenever the crowd did make a noise, they didn't get the vibrations back, so they really weren't into the cheering." 
Bird said, "We've played in the Sil­verdome (at Pontiac, Mich.) and the Kingdomc (in Seattle), and this is even better. The floor was new and the lights were shiny but I felt very comfortable. It really didn't affect the play." 
Although Sampson's 24 points and I 0 rebounds earned him the MVP award, both former winners Bird and Thomas thought it should have been given to Magic Johnson, who had 21 points and I 5 assists. 
"The difference was Magic," said Bird. "The way he played, annd the way he got the ball to the other people. They (the West) just hit the open man and were getting the strong rebounds." 
Thomas said "Magic had to be" the MVP. He controlled the tempo of the game." 
Bird added, "It's always fun to come back to Indiana and play. It's always good to sec your friends and family. 

Bird, the All-Star  MVP  in 1982,  
An interhallswinuningmeetis being held by NVA on Tuesday, Feb. 19. Hall representatives must submit a list of entries and divers must provide a list of dives to Dennis Stark by Monday, Feb. 18. For more information, call Coach Stark at 239­6222. -The Observer  scored 21 points for the East. Thomas, playing in his fourth straight All-Star game since coming to the Detroit Pistons following his NCAA championship sophomore year at Indiana University in 1981,  Boston  NBA Standings Eutern Conference w..tern Conference Atlantic Dlvlalon Mldwnt Dlvlalon w L Pet. GB w L 41 9 .820 Denver 31 20  Pet. .608  GB  
led the East with 22 points and five  Philadelphia  39  10  .796  1.5 Houston  28  21  .571  2  
A racquetball tournarnentis being held by NVA for all members of the student body, faculty and staff. There will be three divisions: one for intermediate players, one for advanced players and one for mixed doubles teams. lbe deadline for entries is Wednesday, Feb. 20. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-61 00. ­The Observer  assists. "It was fun because I got to see a lot ofpeople I haven't seen in a long time," said Thomas, the 1984 All­Star MVP. "There were a lot of people walking around with IU jack­ets and sweatshirts. It just makes you feel real good."  Washington New Jersey New York Milwaukee Detroit Chicago Atlanta Cleveland Indiana  28 24 24 26 18 33 Central Dlvlalon 34 17 30 19 24 25 21 29 16 33 16 34  .538 .480 .353 .667 .612 .000 .420 .327 .320  14 Dallas 17 San Antonio 23.5 Utah Kansas City LA Lakers 3 Phoenix 8.5 Portland 12.5 Seattle 17 LA Clippers 17.5 Golden Slate  27 23 25 25 23 27 16 33 Pacific Dlvlalon 35 16 25 25 22 28 21 30 20 30 11 38  .540 .500 .460 .327 .686 .500 .440 .412 .400 .224  3.5 5.5 7.5 14 9.5 12.! 14 14.5 23  
Both Bird and Thomas suffered  

The Obsen•er Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of l.aForrune Studenl Center. an·cpts classified advertising from<) a.m. until -1 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary's offin:. locatt·d on the third floor of Haggar College: Center, at·cepts classifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. umil .~p.m .. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline f(,r next-day dassitkds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. either in pt:rson or hy mail. Chargt· is I 0 n·ms per five t·harac· 



Classifieds 
ters erda ·. 

t ~ CAMPUS CRUSADE A plant made some ethanol ;unk. O"Keele/Kromkowski-governmenl in small gloves in rm. 208 O"Shag. I know 
LOST: A pair of black Ans women's size for those who aren't quite sure what they and South Bend it really made stunk. abstentia. 
want to do with therr lives but have aNOTICES FOR SALE vague idea that there's some being in the Butsome students in class KEEKERS. Thanks for making the past somebody has lhem. If found. please call 
Stephanie at 3738. or return them to 244 
Badin. Thanks. 
cosmos whose intelligence far surpasses year my best! There is many more to ours. Distilled that damn gas, come! LOVE. JOE 
And now they're all totally drunl<.
EXPERTTYPING277-8534AFTER5:30 LOST: 6 keys on a plain round keychain; 5 BEDROOM HOUSE. FULLY FUR­ATIENTlON Classol"86one dorm key. one mail key, one house NISHED. CLEAN AND IN NICE NEIGH­
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-811117 key. one bike key and two car keys. Mark BORHOOD. GOOD INVESTMENT. 
Make the difference between a GOOD VOTE and GREAT senior year vote 
at 1728. $24.000 288-3109 EVENINGS JIM HAGAN Happy Birthday Andi II!! Anne McCarthy-Pres.
O.C. SENATOR
TYPING AVAILABLE I just wanted to see if you proolread the Mary Sauer -VP
LOST: pair of black gloves on Sunday I WILL WORK FOR: BETTER PARKING
287-4082 classifieds. So here goes nothing : For­Mimi White -Sec.
evenrng in Rock. They are gifts from 
MORE BUS RUNS somebody very dear. Please call1167 or nication and Molestation . Did you edit it Francre While-Tres. 
CHEAPER MEAL PLANS 
out ? Huh? Huh? on Feb. 131n HCC
TICKETS

leave them in Rock 
TYPING We can make the difference! 
........................... 
JACKIE BOGGS P.W. Pucl<erbutt-135byMarchorthecar
LOST:MEN'S NO CLASS RING. KMS IN­P.J. from Maynooth. We would love to get 
684-87113 ismine.AMF Joe,
SCRIBED ON INSIDE. IF FOUND I desperately need a Marquette tic for a rn touch wrlh you' Marci and Julie SMC What the heck? We hope you find your PLEASE CALL al3204. REWARD. friend coming up lor the game. Please call 5111 ocks! Did you lose your shoes too? 
Q. What do you call an overweight barbar­EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 ian? Score: Us 1 YouO 18331 
A. Ani/a the Ton

IF YOU GOT IT, I NEED IT !! I NEED BORN TO SWING FROM CHAN­
Typing/Word Processrng-Term Papers. FOUND Two reels of maggnetrc record­HI Tracy! Hope you are having fun. Love. 
FOUR (4) GA·s FOR THE BYU GAME IF DELIERS!/! DON SEYMOUR AND PAT 
Resumes. etc Editing available. Call rng tape. Behind lhe band annex building. the Gang! 
MURPHY THEONLYDJS THAT MAT­. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . Andrea-9-11 pm. 283-3880. If they belong to you. clarm them at The DISTRESS PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT TER! WHAT MORE CAN YOU ASK Q. What do you call a barbarian with a gun Observer office. Third floor La Fortune. Happy birthday to all the ZARFS that 
YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN 
3714. FOR? HIRE THE ONLY DJS THAT MAT­? TER! FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY OR SYR A. Ani/a the Gun were born between 1-18 and 2-15: 
Rssli. Kathi Miller. Rob Hoover. Louise NEED TYPING. CALL DOlORES CALL DONAT3573 OR PAT AT3318 OR Foley. Brll Purcell and Terry Cross. 
LOST: ONE BROWN FOllY THE BEAR 3317. THANK YOU 277-6045. PICKUP AND DELIVERY. 
..Centuwian. Stwike him merthilessly !!!/ .. Love you all! 
WATCH SANS WRISTBAND. NO REAL 
PERSONALS

MONETARY VALUE BUT I AM WILLING DAVID RIVERS FOR UMOC CarolynSTART YOUR CAREER NOW 
IF YOU GOT IT. I NEED IT !! I NEED 4 Earn money and work on Fortune 500 TO PAY TO SEE MY UTILE FOZZY"S GA"S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF YOU HI KATIE. it"s me. This is YOUR personal! 
SMILING FACE AGAIN. THANKS BO OBERG FAN CLUB LONG AWAITED 
Companies· marketing programs on CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN DISTRESS How·s the play going? Please write and let 
X4173 OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, AND NOW FINALLY ON CAMPUS LOOK 
campus. Part-trme (flexrble) hours each 
PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT 3714. me know. week We grve relerences. Call 
CARRY OUT "TlL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., FOR INFORMATION AND SIGN-UPS IN 
LOST: Man·s Timex watch outside of an ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. LAFORTUNE ORGANIZATION PREZ:
1-800-243-6679. 
ACC raquetball court Monday nile. Feb 4. Jayne Akalaltla The modeling of the behavior of semrcon­
MIKE VARLOTIA I"m not sentimental but I mrss the little guy. 
The terror has just begun. Your life is in ductor devices under trme-varyrng condi­EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
danger ... Go ahead-Make my day. tions is SLEAZY at best. MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Contact Davrd at x4358. 
r----------,
BEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE: The roommate ebuser 
DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING 
Valentine's 
Squeak...Squeak..Squeak BREAK "85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­FOUND: ONE LOOSE CAR KEY. 
FRIDAY. 2/8. NORTH QUAD. JOHN DENTS. CALL 239-5136 OR STOP BY Day Special DAYTONA $209 2483. 
CEREBUS for pope! 
SENIOR CLASS OFFICE. 1.5 S.PADRE $249 
LOST/FOUND 
LAFORTUNE, MON-FRI. 6-9pm. 
Umiled Space. Call by Friday. 284-4452 
Campus Crusade for CEREBUS! LOST: GREEN SWEATER IN CUSHING. 
SMC PROPOSITION "87: VOTE YES x 
OH, VALENTINE! 

FOR RENT 50¢ off 
COLEMAN pres.
ROOM 208 IF FOUND. CALL JOHN AT MIKE RIGNEY No Longer Exists!
BURKEv-p2196 NO QUESTIONS ASKED Beat the ruah ....come up to The Henceforth, The World Shall Know Him 
HUNDMAN Treas. Obaerver and place your Valentine'• As: STlNKYI (Congrals.Stink!) 
SULLIVAN Sec.
Two students to share apt stove and
LOST: a gold Cruzen watch on Sunday Day personal IIIIa WMk. We"va .., 
-
refrigerator. neighbor We propose a fantastic Junior year! 
good hood 
Send your 
Jan. 27. somewhere between Zahm and aalde a apeclal category Juatfor you to Please vote YES-FEB. 13 HCC 7-6.
288-0955/277-3604.
the North Olrvng Hall If found. please call 
get r•l gooey with your h•rtthrob. lovers &friends Marla, There are times when I think Tom at at 1244 The apeclal day Ia Thuraday, Feb. 14, 
SMC/ND Fencing ...coming soon' Feb. thai I"ve run out of ways but avoid long linnand come in today. a Valentine 23 to try to tell you Efficiency apt private entrance. good 
nerghborhood. utilities paidLOST-One blue I ell hand glove. lost at the 
Thanks/ Bye jefffff ..... the simplest things ...
288-0955/277-3604.
ACC on Jan. 20. If lound please call Mark IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
in The Observer 
.. .like /love you... 
812450. IRISH GARDENS Your Valentine's Day CINDY:BEWARE ol womanizers! They're Semi-furnished home. good neighborhood 
Headquarters--Most reasonable prices in 
everywhere--even on 2nd (the brer). Call /wish
255-3684/288-0955. 
South Bend. Place orders now until Tues .. 
Just bring in this your own nsk. Remember. you'll have no Spring would amve 
Feb. 12. ORDER NOW IRISH GARDENS 
one to blame but yourself. Just a /inle earlter IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
LOST: N.D. RUGBY LEITER JACKET IS coupon and receive This year especially 
STILL AT LARGE REWARD FOR ANY Two straight males looking lor third. to 50 cents off your SORRY. CLEV I COULDN'T RESISTII So the snow would melt INFORMATION LEADING TO THE AR­share nice. full size house. rent $125 plus 
YO ADRIAN! Or anyone else at the party 
And the warm evening breezes 
in 525 Grace on 1/26, Did you take our next Valentine's Day
REST AND CONVICTION OF ITS CAP­1/3 utilities. clean. non-smoker desired. Are you covered with bruises from slip­Would once again grace 
boxing glove? Please return it. Thank you. 
TORS. PLEASE CALL J.R REID AT house is lo-cated rn quiet area. close to personal. Ads will ping & sliding on the ice? Then go with the The shores of the lake 277-7561 IF YOU HAVE ANY KNOWL­downtown. 15min. from campus. for more STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD TO FT And the moonlight 
appear in a special
EDGE OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. info, call John. 233-6348 during the day. RACE THOMAN! VOTE RACE FOR LAUDERDALE & DAYTONA BEACH' To Would shine once again 
O.C. SENATOR. section of the Feb. find out more about the sun and the fun. Upon you and me... 
FOUND EARRINGS at KEENAN REVUE call SAB or go to the informational 
PARTY IN KEENAN SATURDAY NIGHT FORGET FLORIDA!! SKI ASPEN, meeting Thursday lhe 14th. Sign ups are P on doors much Ron? 
If they're yours. contact Father Dave In COLORADO THIS SPRING BREAK, coupon per order. at the Record Store. 
14 Observer. One 
WANTED
AM 120 Keenan AND GET A TAN TOO. $397 INCLUDES Hurry! Offer expires HEY CHICA! Yeah. you, TRANSPORTATION. 7 NIGHTS Maybe you can't go to Denmark for a BURNS Happy 19th-..Can you LOST: DARK WOOL BLUE BERET. LODGING. AND A 6 DAY LIFT PASS TO 3 p.m. February 13, party. but the next best thing is to come lo 
Spanish inscription. Have pity--was my Rrde needed to Columbus Feb 22!! Call ALL FOUR OF ASPEN'S MOUNTAINS. Mark's Fastelavnsfest Have you been CEREBRUS CEREBRUS Grandfather's. Anna 277-4745. Drane4149 IF INTERESTED CALL 3630 OR 3573. invited? CEREBRUS THE ALTERNATIVE! 
1985. 
L----------­

The Observer Monday, February 11, 1985 -page 11 , 
Sampson earns MVP Award 


West wins All-Star Game, 140-129 
Associated Pres 
INDIANAPOLIS-Ralph Sampson stood out for more reasons than just his 7-foot-4 height in yesterday's Na­tional Basketball Association All-Star Game. 
"He was head and shoulders above most of the players when the game was on the line," West Coach Pat Riley said after Sampson scored 1l of his 24 points in the fourth 
415 Dixi•way Sa. 
(Al Tallraad Enlranc•J 
277-7929 
MAST&ACHAAGE & VISII 

Saint Mary's College Literary Magazine is now accepting: 
Stories • Poems • Photos Pictures • Artwork 
Submit to: 
L!lLLLL~I!~ 
c/o Westler 310 Madelera Hall 
quarter to help the Western Confer­ence break a five-game losing streak with a 140-129 victory over the Eas­tern Conference. 
Sampson, who pairs with rookie Akeem Olajuwon to form the impos­ing Twin Towers offense for the Houston Rockets, also pulled down 10 rebounds to earn Most Valuable Player honors for the 35th edition of the All-Star series, which the East now lea~s 23-12. An NBA record crowd of 43,146 attended the game at the Hoosier Dome. 

"It was real fun out there," Sampson said. "I had to switch out (on defense) on the best players in the world. It was fun defending against them. They each do some­thing a little different." 
Sampson said he didn't realize he was playing well enough to win the 
MVP. 
"I was totally surprised," he said. 
"I was so involved in the game that I wasn't aware of my performance. The object today was just to win the game." 
The East started well, outrunning the West in the first six minutes while taking a six-point lead. But the East shot poorly after that, finishing with a shooting percentage of .408 after making only 49 of 120 field­goal attempts. The Observer/File Photo 

The West hit 56 of 96 shots for a Rookie Michaeljordan ofthe Chicago Bulls was among thepar­percentage of .583, while Sampson tidpants in yesterday's NBA ALL-Star Game in Indianapolis. The connected on 10 of I 5 attempts. game was played before a record crowd ofover 43,000. The West 
The West never trailed after team defeated the East, 140-129, to break a five-year losing streak. taking a 34-33 lead late in the first Story is at left. quarter, although the East managed 
five ties after that. as a player, Notre Dame can only get better as a team.
The final deadlock was 70-70, but 

Blumb
Larry Nance of the Phoenix Suns, dethroned Saturday as the league's continuedfrom page 16 • 
Perhaps the biggest sore spot ofslam-dunk champion when he the kind of player he will be for Saturday happened before the gamefinished fifth behind winner the Irish in the future. Given the even started, when oranges rainedDominique Wilkins, started a 24-13 chance to start two weeks ago when down on the ACC floor from the stu­streak with two straight baskets. 

Tim Kempton was out ofthe line-up dent section as Syracuse was to be with the flu, Royal has stepped in to introduced. This display of im­give Notre Dame perhaps its most ef­maturity by a small minority very fective front line combination of the easily could have cost Notre Dame a year. Kempton may find it hard to technical foul, a disadvantage the win his job back if Royal continues Irish couldn't have afforded to start 
tw........R~~~~·;~..H·~·i·;: ..tr: 

· Styling 
to play as well. with in such a tough game. 
A native of New Orleans, La., Up to this point in the season, stu­Royal will get a chance to equal his dent support has been at one of !~:; 13 points and eight rebounds of Sat­highest levels in year~. And Phelps, urday on Wednesday night, when ever the IT!~t:::r of basketball's psy­some familiar faces in the New Or-ctdogical aspect, has been truly ap­
531 N. Michigan St., leans Privateers come to iown. preciative ofthat support because of Before the sea.<:or: iitarted, all the talk the positive effects it has had on his 1&11 Phone 233-4957 ~ W?,S of a Kempton-Barlow-Dolan relatively young team. 
lli!IJ!i......................................,~,~ ........~_ _front line. With Royal now emerging It meant a lot to both the players and coaches when so many students showed up at 2:30 in the morning
~--------------------------·r-----------­

last week to greet their arrival after the UCLA win. While a win over 
BOOTH SPECIAL 
UCLA is not a win over Syracuse, the
Buy 15 visits 
presence of such great support, and
at$40 
getS FREE 
the fact that the players know ofthis support, only will boost the team's confidence as the season winds down.
BED SPECIAL

r:; ~ f!) Tan with your r!J ~ t!J ftJ 
Student support is important to 
the success of this team, perhaps

~t:J 
Valentine ~ () C'!) 
7visits$28 
more so than with some other teams

~~ 
(reg. $39) 

C:J (or someone else's) <!1 
across the country, but the Irish cer­tainly do not need the kind of sup­port given before the start of Saturday's game. The support has
COMBO SPECIAL

TAN-HAWA1&N 
been great this far, and was excellent
6 bed & 6 booth

sun tonnrg solm 
for much of Saturday afternoon. The
vlsits$49 -plus­
key now is to maintain that level of
277-7026 
support the rest of the season with­
2 bed & 2 booth 
out having it deteriorate as it did for a few brief moments Saturdav. 

.________________REDEEM BY FEB. 14, 1985 ... FREEfor a friend 
:**** ** * * * * ** * * *****:
f DISTINGUISHED STUDENT ! ~ AWARD i 
~ : 
~ The Notre Dame Alumni Association will be accepting nominations * -tc from February 1 to February 22 for the 4th annual Distinguished Student ~ ~ Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor an out-~ iC standing senior student at the University based on the following criteria: 
~ i
i 
1) Service to Notre Dame, ; '?> 2) Service to the Community, and, * il 3) Good Academic Standing. 
i 

~ Applications can be obtained at the Alamai Association Office on ..~ the second floor of the Administration Building, and at the Center for !i Social Concerns. 
*

•~ Nominations must be submitted to the Association by Feb. 22, 1985. ~ 
*****************************************************~ 
lntrodueing 


CAMPUS 
SHELL 
' 
FDDDMART 
VALENTINES SPECIAL Drawing for 1dozen roses to be giv'1r. away Feb.14 No purchase necessary. 
2 Liter soda ................. 89¢ w/gas 1 dozen X-Large Eggs .............. 59¢ 2 percent Milk ............... $1.99/gal 3 Liter RC Cola .................. $1.69 2 packages Cookies ............. $1.00 Party Crackers .................... 99¢ 1/2 lb. bag of Chips ............... $1.09 Cigarettes ............... $7.88/carton 
(we carry generic brand) Windshield Concentrate ........... 79¢ (makes 1 gallon) 
Valentine Candy • Cookies • Crackers Chips • Household Items Baking goods • Health &Beauty Aids Grocery Items and More! 
Oil change special: $14.95 includes up to 5 qts. 10W-40, oil filter, lube, 32 oz. Colts mug 
OPEN 24 HOURS 
7DRYSRWEEK 

--~--­

The Observer Monday, February 11, 1985-page 12 
Brisco-Hooks lowers 400 mark 

Slaney's injury may be serious 

Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ -The in­jury to star-crossed Mary Slaney in the Vitalis-U.S. Olympic Invitational track and field meet might be more serious than first believed, her coach, Dick Brown, said yesterday. 
Slaney, the former Mary Decker, was forced to withdraw from the women's l,SOO-meter race Saturday night with just over two laps remain­ing with what at first appeared to be a severe cramp in her right calf. 
But Brown said, "I think the cramp probably caused some toru tissue. We will probably know in two or three days." 
Meanwhile, Brown said that Slaney, who was on a pace that would have made her the first wo­man to break four minutes indoors, would "continue to ice" the injured area, "to stop the blood from flowing and lea~ng." 
Triple Olympic gold medalist Valerie Brisco-Hooks, who a week earlier had set a world indoor best in the women's 440-yard race and bro­ken the American record in the 400 meters en route, lowered the 400 mark from 52.99 seconds to 52.63. She led all the way but had to withstand a closing rush by former record holder Diane Dixon, who missed by one-hundredth of a second of catching Brisco-Hooks at the finish. 
Carl Lewis, winner of four Olym­pic gold medals, showed his ver­satility on and off the track, winning the 55-meter dash in 6.1 '; seconds, then a few minutes later by singing the national anthem. 

Sheehan wins at Sarasota Classic 
Associated Press 

SARASOTA, Fla. -Patty Sheehan birdied the final hole to break a tie with Nancy Lopez and finish with a 10-under 278 to win the 5200,000 Sarasota Classic yesterday. 
Sheehan's 6-under 66 was the low score for the round that become a daylong duel with Lopez, who carded a 4-under 68 for a 279. 
"It was just one ofthose days that I really hit the ball well," Sheehan said. "The putts fell that I needed. This was a classic confrontation be­tween two players who really wanted to win." 
The victory was worth S30,000 to Sheehan, whose eight titles in 1983 and 1984 were the most by any player on the Ladies Professional GolfAssociation tour. 
Sheehan started the day one shot back of Lopez and third-round co­leader Patty Hayes, who entered final play with ';-under I39s. Sheehan birdied her first two holes and continued! on to a six-birdie, no­bogey round. 
Tied for third, four shots back at 6-under 282, were Jane Blalock, who had 67 Sunday, and Betsy King, who fired a 70. 
Janet Anderson's 70 for a ';-under 283 earned her fifth, while Donna H. White was another stroke back after her 71 round. Hayes, meanwhile, had a final-round 76 and was down the list at !-under 287. 
The leaders were still fighting for sole possession of the top spot as Sheehan prepared to hit into the green of the par-S 18th at the 6,124­yard Bent Tree Golf & racquet Club. 
Men 
continuedjrompage 16 
four with two more free throws, 
Joseph Price had the ball stolen offa 
bad pass. After one more free throw 
by the Orangemen, Barlow scored 
to bring the Irish to within three, 65­
62. 
Rut the Irish could not steal the 
ball or neil f!.lUI the Orangemen as 
the final I 5 second~ tic!ced off the 
clock, and the students proc:eedcd 
to vent their frustrations by pelting 
more oranges and toilet paper onto 
the court. 
"I'm happy with our team," said 
Boeheim. "After the tough games 
we've had in our conference, I was 
happy with the way we played. This 
is a tough place to play, and Digger's 
great at getting people up for a game. 
Down the stretch, we just made 
some good defensive plays to help 
us keep control of the game." 
But the Notre Dame view of the 
game was definitely one ofa lost op­
portunity. 
"This shows we can play with the 
top teams in the nation," said Phelps, 
"but it would have been nice to win 
it. It would have helped us get into 
the NCAA Tournament." 
"It seems like we keep getting to 
this point right near the Top 20, and 
then keep falling short," said Barlow. 
"We've got to come through when it 
counts." 
With many tough games left, the 
Irish now get back to work, hope­
fully finding what it takes to win the 
big one. 
Syracuse (65) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P 
Addison 39 6-13 5-6 4 2 17 Hawkins 15 1-2 1-3 4 3 3 Seikaly 33 2-8 6-7 8 4 10 Washington 40 8-15 4-5 3 3 20 Brown 22 3-5 2-2 1 3 8 Monroe 18 o-o 2-2 2 o 2 Harried 20.00-0000 Alexis 31 1-6 3-6 6 2 5 200 21-49 23-31 28 17 65 
FG Pet. .429. FT Pet. -.742. Team rebounds-2. Turnovers-15. Assists-10 (Washington 3). Technicals-none. 
Royal Barlow Dolan Rivers Price Hicks Spencer Beeuwsaert Duff Kempton 
Voce 
FG Pet. 
Notre Dame (62) 
M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
36  4-7  5-6  8  3  13  
38  6-12  4-4  5  3  16  
22  2-4  o-o  6  2  4  
40  6-14  4-5  2  3  16  
17  D-3  D-0330  
22  1-4  3-4  2  5  5  
1  o-o  o-oooo  
2  1-1  o-o  o 1  2  
1  o-o  o-oooo  
19  1-6  2-2  3  2  4  
2  1-1  o-o  2  o 2  

200 22-52 18-21 31 22 62 .423. FT Pet. -.857. Team 
rebounds -4. Turnovers -16. Assists -7 (Dolan 4). Technicals-none. 
Halftime-Notre Dame31. Syracuse26. Of­ficials-Joe Forte. Jim Burch. Hank Armstrong (all ACC). A-11,345 (c). 
FOR A FAST TRACK MANAGEMENT CAREER 

It takes a fast start to stay on the fast track. But a fast start takes special training. That's why The Home Insurance Company, one of the country's oldest and most innovative propertyIcasualty insurance companies, has created a unique Management Intern Program for exceptionally talented men and women. 
If you're one of the proven achievers accepted into our program, you'll enter the world of management through Underwriting. There, we'll train you in the basics of our industry. You'll have close ties to manage­ment, high visibility, and a clearly defined path of professional advancement. 
Whether you become a technical expert or select the management option, your exposure and responsibilities will increase 
dramatically as you progress through your internship. · 
It's not an easy program. But the people we're looking for want a challenge-and a future-with an industry leader. 
If you're that kind of person, and you've had the academic success to prove it, find out more about our Intern Program by sending us your resume including G.P.A. and major. We'll respond with more information on our fast track to career growth. Write to: Virginia Morrissey, The Home Insurance Company, 59 Maiden Lane, New York, NY 10038. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
THE HOME 
INSURANCE COMPANY 
A CITY INVESTING COMPANY 
• 




-------~---­
The Observer Monday, February 11, 1985-page 13 

1 
The Observer !Johannes Hacker 
The Notre Dame hockey team skated to a series split with the Cyclones ofIowa State over the weekend. Afterdropping a 4.3 deci­
sian on Friday, the Irish came back to defeat the Cyclones on Satur­day, 7-4, despite the benching ofsix regulars. EdDomansky bas the wrap-up at right. 
------------------------------r------------------------------1
TUI!!I~I'I,. $AVII 1 TUI!!I~I'I,. $AYI 
" 1!1 Ul:l!l!llolllfr ··N•~t•&. ~...-. I • 1!1 'I!I:I!I!II.IM' ··N·It~ ~· 
announces 
I 1 
Discounts up to 15% 2nd Floor LaFortune Open M-F 3-7 pm 
I 
Cyclones tied, 3-3, Notre Dame ex­ploded for four goals in the final per­iod to nail down the victory.
Discount coupou 
The Irish picked up two of their goals while skating shorthanded and 
J 
added another on the powerplay. Notre Dame made good on three of 
I 10% off on purchases under $5 
15% off on purchases over $5 
eight powerplay opportunities in 
the game, while Iowa State was two
clip and save this ad! 
Notre DaiDe wins one, drops one in weekend series with Iowa State 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team gave a little and got a little in its weekend series with Iowa State. 
On Friday night, the Irish gave away a 3-1 lead and fell to the Cyclones, 4-3. 
But on Saturday, Notre Dame got a solid performance from each player and came away with a convincing 7­4 victory. 
The weekend split improved the Irish record to 7-16-1, while Iowa . State moved to 19-9-1. 
Friday night, Notre Dame held a 1-0 lead after the first period and seemed on its way to the locker­room at the end of the second per­iod with a 3-1 lead. 
Unfortunately, the Cyclones had other ideas and scored twice in the last minute to knot the score, 3-3. 
After controlling the game for 39 minutes, the two goal outburst ap­peared to take the spark out of the Irish. And for the remainder of the contest, Notre Dame couldn't get
back OO track. 
" We couldn't hit anything," said Irish head coach Lefty Smith. "We weren't opportunists when the 
openings were there. And when we had chances, their goalie (John Carr, 28 saves) came up big." 
Co-captain Brent Chapman, Tom Parent and Rich Sobilo tallied the Notre Dame goals. 
Marc Guay turned in a strong game in the Irish net. He stopped 29 Cyclone shots. 
Saturday night's crowd saw a dif­ferent Notre Dame team take the ice. After a somewhat lackadaisical per­formance in Friday's loss, the Irish came out with fire in their eyes and promptly went to work on their guests from Iowa. 
At times the game seemed to lack the finesse and quality puck control which often typifies a college hockey game, but the Irish made ef­fort and hustle pay off. 
"We used a lot of new, different people and combinations," said Smith. "Some of it wasn't pretty, but at the same time, I was really pleased with the effort from everyone." 
" We finally started being proud to play," said left wing john Nick­odemus. "After last night, they out­hustled us, but tonight we gave 110 percent the whole time and played with real pride and intensity." 
Notre Dame played without the services of six regulars, who were not in uniform for disciplinary reasons after arriving late for a Satur­day morning team meeting. 
After two periods of even-paced hockey, which found the Irish and with a wrist shot high over Aman­tea's glove on an Irish powerplay just 56 seconds into the final period. Moments earlier he just missed the net on a similar opportunity. 
Fifty-one seconds later, Tom Mooney picked up his first of two goals in the period to put Notre Dame up, 5-3. 
The Irish were held in check until the 6:50 mark when Mike McNeill, breaking in the slot, took a pass from Tim Reilly and slid the puck past Amantea, and Notre Dame led by three, 6-3. The goal came with Frank O'Brien offfor holding. 
Iowa State scored its last goal of the night at 8:28 as Paul Pence fired the puck past Haverkamp from the right face-off circle. 
Mooney's second goal, with the Irish shorthanded, at 19:08 finished off the scoring. 
The Cyclones had jumped out to an early 1-0 lead on goal by Dan jenkins after the Irish had difficulty clearing the puck from in front of Haverkamp. 
McNeill's first goal of the game tied the score, 1-1, at 16:24 when he deflected a shot from the point by Rob Ricci. 
The Cyclones took a 3-1 lead with goals by Dave Carrigan and Brent Lervick in the first five minutes of the second period. 
Reilly and co-captain Bob Thebeau tallied for Notre Dame at 
7:19 and 12:18, respectively. 
In Friday's loss, Chapman gave the Irish their 1-0 lead at the first inter­mission when he beat Carr at 17:45. 
Parent made it 2-0 for Notre Dame with help from Nickodemus and Steve Whitmore at 8:33 of the second period. 
Lervick pulled the Cyclones within one, 2-1, less than three minutes later. 
It took just 31 seconds more for Sobilo to put the Irish up 3-1 as he tipped home a Lance Patten shot from the blueline. 

SQUARE 
D 
RECRUITING 
SquareD Company, a leading manufacturer of electrical and electronic equipment will be conducting on-campus interviews on Tuesday, February 26, 1985, seeking Accountants primarily for the Lexington, Kentucky operations. 
Square D Lexington is one of the largest in the company's network of production facilities. Occupying 500,000 square feet of space has more than 1400 engineering, accounting, production, marketing and adver­tising personnel. Products manufactured in Lexington include Loading Centers, Industrial Safety Switches and Metering Devices. Ifyou are interested in working for a progressive company that offers competitive compensation and benefit programs, and challenging employment opportunities, sign up with your placement office. 
An equal opportunity employer. 
SQUARED COMPANY 
Monday, February 11, 1985 -page 14 
The Observer 

Take advantage of this opportunity to shape your future and ours ... join a company that gladly makes space for the new expressionist. Tomorrow is taking shape at a company call TRW. 
The Ob~rver/Vic Guarino 
Forward Mary Beth Schueth shot a perfect seven-for-seven from the field Saturday as Notre Dame recorded a 107-61 mincing of hapless Xavier University. The win putseveral new entries into the 1rlsh record book and upped their record to 12-7. Larry Burke 
details the game (JTI page 16. 
Women 
continuedfrom page 16 
shot even better from the field, hit­ting 78 percent (.21-of-.27) of their shots, and that it wa.~ the reserves who did must of the scoring for Notre Dame. Brommeland scored 18 of her .20 point~ in the second half, and Kathy Barron added eight points in ll minutes as Notre Dame's lead grew as high as 48 points in the second half. By that time the only drama left centered around whether or not the Irish would break the l (){)-point barrier for the first time in their history, which they did on Barron's I '5-foot jumper from the left side with two minutes remaining. 
Xavier turned the hall over 32 times in the game, and the Irish finished with .29 steals. 
"We figured that we could get to Xavier with the full-court press," said DiStanislao. "With the press working well. we were able to force some turnovers and gain some offen­sive momentum. 
"We showed a lot more consis­tency in this game. We had a little let-up in the first half, hut I'd say that overall it was a consistent effort, es­pecially for our younger players. Kathy Brommeland has been getting better and better, and Beth Morrison and Kathy Barron played well. Sandy did a good job underneath for us also. I think the players arc starting to see what its going to take for this team to have a solid sea.~on." 
Xavier women (61) M FG-A FT-A R F p 
Phelan 19 0-5 2-3 4 5 2 Land 27 6-8 5-7 1 5 17 Myers 5 1-3 o-o 0 2 2 Frederick 34 6-15 5-9 3 4 17 Mescher 14 o-o 0-1 2 1 0 Carr 5 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 Long 6 0-1 0-0 3 0 0 Sowers 25 3-6 4-8 1 4 10 Kastner 9 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Leonard 8 0-1 0-0 0 1 0 Caughman 13 3-8 1-2 4 3 7 Maylath 21 Q-1 0-0 0 3 0 Prebles 14 2-7 2-2 4 0 6 
200 21-57 1~32 23 28 61 
FG Pet. .368. FT Pet. -.594. Team 
rebounds-8. Turnovers-32. Assists-5 (f1ve 
with one). Technicals-none. 
Notre Dame women (107) 
M FG-A FT-A F
R p Ebben 26 4-6 0-0 3 3 8 Schueth 19 7-7 4-6 2 4 18 Botham 27 3-7 8-13 11 4 14 Keys 24 11-14 1-1 2 3 23 Dougherty 17 3-6 0-0 0 1 6 Gavin 13 o-o 3-4 1 2 3 Brommeland 22 8-10 4-4 5 3 20 Barron 11 2-3 4-5 2 2 8 Kaiser 15 1-1 3-5 1 2 5 Basford 13 1-2 0-0 3 1 2 Morrison 12 Q-1 0-0 2 3 0 199 41).57 27-38 32 28107 FG Pet. .702. FT Pet. -.711. Team rebounds -7. Turnovers -14. Assists -18 (Dougherty 7). Technicals-none. 



Television replay for game officials in experimental stretch for USFL 
Associated Press 

TAMPA, Fla.-While quarterback Doug Flutie's pro debut failed to materialize, the United States Foot­ball League unveiled another new "star" -a television for videotape replays to review officials' calls. 
Flutie, the Heisman Trophy win­ner from Boston College, stood on the sideline as expected Saturday night during the New Jersey Generals' 21-7 loss to the Tampa Bay Bandits. 
Gene Bradley and then Ron Reeves called the signals for the Generals. And Reeves wound up peripherally involved in the USFL's first experimental use ofa television replay. 
It was a system set up-but not an­nounced -in advance by Cal Lepore, the USFL's supervisor of officials, at the urging of Harry Usher, the league's new commissioner. Lepore said later it wasn't announced beforehand because he wasn't sure the equipment would be available or work properly. 
Late in the third quarter, Reeves completed a pass to wide receiver Danny Knight for a I 0-yard gain to the Tampa Bay 11-yard line. When Knight was tackled by the Bandits' Bobby Futrell, the ball popped loose and Kevin McClelland ofTampa Bay fell on it. 
Generals Coach Walt Michaels asked for a replay and Lepore -after two-minute review process -ruled the play had been officiated cor­rectly. New Jersey was assessed a time out because the appeal had been denied. If the fumble ruling had been reversed, no time-out would have been assessed. 
Lepore said the replay experi­ment would be tested again on Sat-
Attention 
Off-Campus Students 
VDTE 
.JIM HRCiRN 

D.C. Senatar 
• 
better parking 

• 
more bus runs 

• 
cheaper meal plans 



At TRW's Electronics and Defense
There's Always 
Sector, we recognize the value of 
Space for the new ideas. We provide an 
environment with space for free
New Expressionist. thought and expression. To us, you are tomorrow's source of talent and creative energy. With us, you can reach deep into the expanses of your imagination and help to develop technologies that literally reach beyond the stars. 
Our informal and encouraging 
atmosphere has produced a galaxy 
of opportunities ...encompassing 
large software computer systems, 
communications and scientific 
spacecraft, alternative energy 
sources, high energy lasers, and 
microelectronics development. These 
opportunities are open to you. 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship Required 
On-campus interviews Feb· 20. 21, 22 See your placement office for details. 





··~·· 
Electronics & Defense Sector 


urday in Houston's game at Birmingham; then the league will decide whether to usc replays during the season. 
If it does, it will he a first for pro football. 
The National Football League ex­perimented with videotape replays in seven nationally televised exhibi­tion games in 1978 but discarded the idea, saying it was too cum­bersome and that it could raise more questions than it answered. 

----~~--~~------~ 
~4(Jt4:1lcat~------------------------------------M--o-nd_a_y_,F_e_b_rn_ruy
___ll_,_1_98_5___P_a_g_e_1_5 
Doonesbury GarryJrudeau 
7H/515 ROlAN[)H£1Jt£X 6ARN, NO 5T/?AN6ER 7D AFTER!rfNIH5rF7RYIN6 7D FINO 
I 
Campus ~·"
/ I'MAWAIWA KC..-13'5 WITH 50M5THIN6 fVR HIM 70IAJ, NASA . 
f(£A05
-:4 5ENA7DR. JAJr£6ARNA5H& 
! --ct PflEmf?ES F'OR HIS Uf'({)M­: I INGM/55K»JONTH&SWICE 
0 1 
5H/IT7Z£. 
/ 

TankMcNamara 
HASRNAUY~GA/?NA 
LIP! 
511K&-510<NES5 SPff./AI..6T. HIS MAIN PlfTYtvlt.L./Je-KJ 7HiifJIUtJP ONR.'E£XA.:sT I 
\ 

•3:30 
p.m.-Anthropology Lecture, "The Roles of Nationality, Ethnicity and Race in Latin America," Prof. Martin Murphy, U. ofFlorida, Room 131 Decio, Free. 

•4:30 
p.m. · General Meeting, Environmental Concerns Organization, Library of the Center for Social Concerns. 

•7 
p.m.-AIESEC Meeting, "Marketing Training," Hayes Healy Auditorium. 

•7 
& 9 p.m.-Film, "I Will Fight No More Forever," Center for Social Concerns, $1.


Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT 
"""!!'!......ING BREAK TRIP 
TO 

and DAYTONA BERCH 12!1!1 St!l!l $75 deposits due by Thursday, Feb. 14 
Sign-up at the Record Store in LaFortune 
TV Tonight 
6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7:00p.m.

BlOOtD Connty Berke Breathed 
5fl?J?Y !itt /.lli7J. 7li/S MORNIN(,, A 'Y:£N€KAL HOSPrrAL" f'R/J(r CR!llof1 'lfttL'5 IIM'£L" 
7:30p.m.

WAS ON. fKJW YA (l(Jif{~ !liE MY ltf!l711(655 WHU ~ 
8:00p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30 p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30 p.m. 

12:00 a.m. out this morning is doing the trick." 
"Well, Vern, looks like that buffalo paper you set 
12:30 a.m. 



2:00a.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 

22 22 Eyewitness News -28 Newswatch 28 
16 NBC Nightly News 
22 CBS Evening News 
28 ABC World News Tonight 
16 M*A*S*H 

22 Three's Company 
28 jeopardy 
16 Barney Miller 

22 WKRP in Cincinnati 
28 Wheel of Fortune 
16 TV Bloopers and Practical jokes 
22 Scarecrow & Mrs. King 
28 2Hardcastle & McCormick 
34 Wonderworks 

16 Movie -Two Fathers 
22 Kate & Allie 

28 Movie-Obsessed With A Married Wo· 
man 

34 American Playhouse 
22 Newhart 
22 Cagney & Lacey 

34 Forum on Black America 
16 NewsCenter 16 

22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 

34 Movie -Penny Serenade 
16 Tonight Show 

22 Simon & Simon/McMillan 
28 ABC News Nightline 
28 Love Connection 

16 Late Night With David Letterman 
22 Night1fatch 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 36 Safe 66 Valise 12 Seine tributary 1 Droops 38 Finale 67 Suffix for old 13 Ripening agent 5 Shore birds 39 Gossip or young 18 More recent 
10 Where Greek 40 Transported 68 Shabby 24 Breed of met Greek 41 Carpet type 69 Urges cattle 42 Opposite 26 Consume of haw 27 Yield
14 Swag DOWN43 More lucid 15 Painting style 1 Definitely
16 Branch part 28 Willowor
not a natty 
17 Reciprocally 44 Book part dogwood
dresser 
19 Billy or Pete 45 Builds 29 Type of suit 
2 First class 
20 Norwegian 47 Commands 30 -up (angry) 
3 One on the 
seaport 49 Macaroni e.g. 31 Ventured
move 

21 Depot: abbr. 51 Hawaiian dish 33 Silly
4 Party type 52 State show 5 Oklahoman 22 "Deutschland 54 Bus. abbr. 
-Alles" 56 Compensate 6 Choose 34 Rims 23 Married 61 Aid a criminal 7 Bleacher 37 Take apart 25 Watery sounds 40 Bulwarks 
swelling 62 Creeping 8 Mountain ridge 41 Resort of a 27 Troubled 64 Title for 9 Hedge sort 32 Small animal Mussolini 10 Plays a banjo 43 Thoroughfares: 35 Seat 65 Actor Bruce 11 Double abbr. 

44 Rigid 55 Goalie's 46 White House milieu 
name 57 Old-fashioned 48 With dispassion one 50 "Tomorrow" 58 Certain 
singer 59 Ireland 52 Crazes 60 Recipe abbr. 53 Adjoin 63 Guided 
Friday's Solution 


1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
j 
J 


Irish Ciardens 
Yaur V alentine•s Day Headquarters 
Plaee 3'0Ur Valentine's Da3' order b3' Feb. JZ! 
OPEN MON-SAT 12:30-5:30 

Syracuse guard Dwayne "Pearl" Washingtorl the Irish. The game's final moments were ma"edby tallied a game-high 20 points Saturday to lead the a controversial charging call on Notre Dame's sixth-ranked Orangemen to a 65-62 victory over David Rivers with the score tied, 60-60. 



Women shatter numerous records en route to 107-61 rout of Xavier 
Monday, February 11, 1985-page 16 

S~orts 
Syracuse escapes with 65-62 victory over Irish 
Controversial charging call draws hostility from crowd 
By LARRY BURKE 

Sports Writer 
Xavier women's basketball coach Laura Massa wa~ certainiy well aware before Saturday's game that Notre Dame had been playing its best ba..~ketball of the season in recent weeks. Massa had undoubt­edly heard stories of how the Irish 
had rolled over their la..~t three North Star Conference opponents, winning by margins of39, 21, and 15 points in their la..~t three games. 
But nothing could have prepared Massa for what happened to her squad Saturday afternoon In the ACC. The Lady Musketeers were quite literally dominated in every phase of the game, as the Irish routed them, I 07-61. 
The victory was the fourth straight for Notre Dame, and its seventh win in Its last eight games. Mary DIStanislao's squad has now won six straight games at home; its last loss at the ACC was on Nov. 26 to Purdue. Overall, Notre Dame now stands at ( 2-7, '5-1 in the conference. With the loss, Xavier's record dropped to 2-17 overall, and 0-6 in the NSC. 
Xavier, a team that allows 87 points per game, had its name en­tered into the Irish record books several times a.~ a result of yester­day's thrashing. Notre Dame's 107 point.., broke the mark of 96 set against Marquette in 1983, and the Irish also set a new standard for shooting percentage in the game, as they hit on 70 percent of their shots to break the old record of 64 per­cent set against SMU In 1982. Notre Dame made 27 free throws, which tied the single-game mark set against Dayton last Wednesday, and had 38 free throw attempts, which set a new school record. 
Trena Keys led the assault for the Irish with 23 points on a career-best 11-of-14 ( 79 percent)from the field, 
as she raised her team-leading scoring average to 17.5 points per game. Keys now has 333 points this season, which ties Carrie Bates' season scoring record for a junior. 
Kathy Brommeland scored a career-high 20 points for the Irish, on 8-of-10 shooting. Mary Beth Schueth hit all seven of her shots from the field to finish with 18 points, and Sandy Botham added 14 points and grabbed 11 rebounds. 
The Lady Musketeers let things get out of hand early, as they folded in the face ofan Irish full-court press that forced numerous turnovers. When Notre Dame unveiled the press in the opening minutes of the game, Xavier lost its composure and presented the Irish with plenty of easy scoring oportunities. The result was a 1 5-0 spurt for Notre Dame that boosted the Irish to a 22-4 lead in the first seven minutes of the game. The Lady Musketeers got no closer than 14 points the rest of the way, as Keys scored 17 first-half points and Schueth added 13 to give Notre Dame a 52-30 lead at intermission. 
The Irish shot 63 percent from the field in the first half, and their ag­gressive defense forced 1 7 Xavier 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
For much of Saturday's Notre Dame-Syracuse basketball game, it appeared the sixth-ranked Oran­
·gemen would meet the same fate as 
the orange!> hurled by excited Irish 
fans before theplayer introductions. 
But it wa..o; not to be. 
David Rivers was whistled for a 
controversial charge with 1:54 
remaining, nullifying a layup which 
would have given the Irish a 62-60 
lead. 
Instead, the Orangemen brought the ball back downcourr with the score tied, 60-60, and proceeded to hit five free throws in the final l :30 to give them a 65-62 victory over Notre Dame. 
"I was very surprised at the call," said Rivers, who. along with Ken Barlow, led the Irish with 16 points. "In fact, I was shocked, simply be­cause the guy didn't have position. I expected to at lea..~t get two points out of it, because I had released the ball before I hit him." 
Referee joe Forte, who was 
knocked into the crowd on that play, 
disallowed the field goal, saying 
Rivers had not released the ba..~ket­
ball before making contact. 
"I question the charge," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "And I question whether the field goal was good. If anything, I was looking for the three-point play. 
"Even if all they give him is the 
basket, we're up by two. Ifthey tie it. 
we'll have a chance for the last shot. 
That was how we were going to win 
a game against a team like Syracuse." 
In fact, for much of the contest, 
the Irish seemed ready to pull off the 
upset. Donald Royal hit a 12-foot 
bank shot to give the Irish a 2-0 lead, 
a basket which drew a shower of 
toilet paper from the crowd. The 
Irish then went on to take a 31-26 
lead over the Orangeman at the half, 
holding the visitors to 33 percent 
shooting from the field. 
But in the first 90 seconds of the 
second half, Syracuse forward Rafael 
Addison and guard Dwayne "Pearl" 
Washington led a charge that wiped 
out the Irish lead, and the Oran­
gemen tied the game at 33. 
"It wa..~ important for us to come 
out and start fast in the second half," 
said Syracuse head coach Jim Boeheim. "Dwayne got off well, and (Addison) started working more and knocking down better shots." 

"We knew coming into the game that Syracuse wa..~ a very explosive team," said Phelps. "I think we did a good job by not allowing them to jump out quickly like they've done all year. lbeir early second-half spurt was a key, but we came back. From then on, it was just one of those down-to-the-wire games." 
After allowing the Orangemen to creep out to a 47-41 lead, the Irish made their move to get back into the game. Within a span of 19 seconds, Notre Daml' scored six points to tie the game at 47. 
After a Barlow slam dunk, Rivers stole the inbounds pass and scored on a layup to make the score 47-45. Only 11 seconds later, Scott Hicks followed that up with a st<:al and layup ofhis own. forcing Bocheim to call a time-our. 
With the crowd on its feet, the Irish came out and quickly took a 50­:P lead. But two free throws by Washington, who led the Oran­gemen with 20 points, and a jumper by Addison gave Syracuse a one­point lead with 8:56Ieft. 
From that point until the contro­versial call on Rivers, neither team could gain more than a two-point ad­vantage. 
And when Syracuse had to make its free throws as the clock wound down, they did it. 
"We hoped that if we could stay close and make them go to the line, we would have a chance to win it in the end," said Phelps. "'Jbey hit their foul shots down the stretch. I just thought a bad call took us out ofit." 
Center Rony Seikaly, who had missed a crucial one-and-one in a one-point loss to Boston College on Tuesday night, hit two foul shots with 1:30 remaining to give the Orangemen a 62-60 lead. 
The Irish called time-out to set up a play, but lost a golden opportunity when Royal dropped the ball out of bounds as he was preparing to shoot. 
"At times during the game we lost our composure," said Rivers. "Today, we just beat ourselves. The guys understand what we'll have to do next time." 
After Addison put Syracuse up by 
see MEN, page 12 
turnovers and racked up 1 5 steals. Notre Dame held Xavier's Stacey Land, who averages 20 points a game, to just five points in the first half. 
The second half was pretty much the same story, except that the Irish 
see WOMEN, page 14 



It was more than just a loss 
The record books will say it was a loss. But Satur­day's Notre Dame-Syracuse basketball game is noth­ing that the Irish players should be ashamed about. Jeff Notre Dame certainly played well enough to win, yet failed to come away with the victory which may Blumb have been enough to finally crack the Top 20. 
It appeared that the Irish had taken a 62-60 lead Assistant Sports Editor with 1:54 left in the game when David Rivers drove in for a layup. The whistle blew and most at the ACC thought Rivers would have the chance for a three­hopes to go anywhere this year. Although it didn't point play. But when referee joe Forte got up off the showon the scoreboard, in many respects Saturday's seat ofhis pants, called a charge on Rivers and waved game was a victory for the players -a·victory a.~ far as the basket off, the dream of a win over the sixth­now knowing that they can play with the best teams ranked Orangemen was shattered. in the country. 
Whether the call was correct or not is hard to say. • Most everyone has his own opinion on the matter, To find one of Notre Dame's brightest spots Satur­including Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps. Phelps, day, you need to look no further than the play of who usually will refrain from bad-mouthing the offi­sophomore forward Donald Royal. Royal, who cials, spent much of the post-game press conference seems to be coming into his own recently, had an discussing that call, that one mistake in his mind. The excellent day offensively against Syracuse's 6-10 fact that the Irish coach would so uncharacteristi­center Rony Seikaly. Despite giving up three inches cally bemoan the call says a lot about how much he to the freshman from Greece, Royal dominated the disagreed with it. match-up by effectively using his quickness and by 
Mistake or not, though, the Irish will have to move being more aggressive than Seikaly. on from here in preparation for next month's NCAA By taking the play to Seikaly, Royal demonstrated tournament. There will be other games like this ont:, and Notre Dame will have to start winning them ifit see BLUMB, page 11 



