
SMC security -page 3 

......--. 
.r 
VOL XX, NO. l 7 till" IIH.kpnH.Icnl .,lulknt Ill"" ... p;11wr .,,,:n mg notn dame ;md .,aint man·., 
nJESDAY, SEPTEMBER I 7, 198~ 

Senate makes plan to 'sting' students with ACC concert 



Students bad the opportuni~y to show off their weekend. Michael Ross drotre to victory, winning a 
cheap price," said Hall Presidents' 
drir,ing skills (or lack ofthem) as part ofthe 1985 trip to Daytona Beach for the National Finals. 
Council Chairman Kevin Howard. 
National Collegiate Driving Championships Daniel Bisettfinished second in the contest. Rock performer Huey Lewis, for example, demands an $80,000 ap­pearance fee, Mileti said. 
Sting's agent would like to con­
Sexuality survey results expose 
firm the date as soon as possible, he 
said. It would be Sting's last ap­
pearance on his current U.S. tour

attitudes of Saint Mary's women before he returns to Europe, Mileti 
By ELLYN MASTAKO 
StaffReporter 
Less than half of Saint Mary's stu­dents believe there is a healthy, open attitude towards discussing such issues as pregnancy, birth con­trol, rape, intercourse, homosexuality and venereal disease, according to a survey given to stu­dents last year. 
One-fourth of the students believe they have been abused by someone who touched them in ways which made them feel uncom­fortable, the survey indicated. 
The information gathered from this survey, which 62 percent of Saint Mary's students responded to, wiU be used to design educational programs, said Mary Feeley, director of Campus Ministry. 
The survey also indicated that as few as 30 percent ofSaint Mary's stu­dents believe they have enough in­formation and can ask questions about physical problems, physical concerns and birth control, while less than half of the students feel confident of talking about their bodies. 
A comparison between freshmen and seniors revealed that the seniors were generally much less open with regard to the issues covered in the survey than were the freshmen. 
A recurring theme found in the. survey, said Feeley, is that students feel most at ease around other Saint Mary's students when discussing such topics. 
"We are happy that there is that support system present," said Feeley. 
Before the end of this semester, the recently-formed Sexuality Education Council will have begun an education program for sexuality, she said. 
The program's purpose will be to help each individual better under~ stand and appreciate her sexuality, she said. 
To protect students' privacy, ex­act results of the survey were not released, Feeley said. 
"We are not giving specific num­ber statistics because we promised 

said. 
the students confidentiality, and we Tickets for the concert ·would
respect the students and their wil­cost S14. 50. Although Broussard
lingness to participate in the sur­would like to give Notre Dame stu­
vey," she said. "The statistics are not dents a discount, "it's just not
our focus." feasible," he said. "We can get them
The survey consisted of eight good seats though," he added.
parts. One section dealt with deci­sion making. The results showed stu­
The senate also decided to give dents are generally happy with their Mileti the power to allow Heidi decisions, but 25 percent did say 
Schwaab, a promoter not connected sometimes others should make their 
with Notre Dame, to share 50 per­decisions. 
cent ofthe costs involved in promot­Alarge majority ofthe students do 
ing the concert. According to the not want additional information 
arrangement, Schwaab would be about male or female 
entited to 50 percent of any profitshomosexuality. They do believe, 
made. If the concert fails to make however, that there is discrimina­
money, however, she would be tion against homosexuals on both 
liable for 50 percent ofany losses. campuses. 
Regarding the relationships and attitudes section, a large percentage 
SMC Board of Governance
believed they can be in love without being sexually active, the survey said. 

holds confidential nieeting 
Board of Governance meeting

Italian grenade explosion injures 40 people 
last night. 
Just under half of those respond­ing say they do not know what 
By KIMBERLY TRENNER 
Senior StaffReporter
see SURVEY, page 4 

Hush was the word at the closed portion ofthe Saint Mary's 
Associated Press 
ROME · A grenade exploded last night at an outdoor cafe crowded with tourists on the fashionable Via Veneto, wounding approximately 40 people, police reported. 
Officers at the scene said two grenades were thrown, and ap­parently were aimed at a specific table among the outdoor patrons of the Cafe de Paris, but one did not ex­plode. 
Police at Rome's central headquarters said a few of the 
The Italian news agency AGI quoted police as saying the grenades were hurled from either a motor­cvcle or an automobile passing aiong the winding. hilly street that draws tourists to its shops and cafes. 
Approximately 20 people were admitted to Polyclinic Hospital, ac­cording to another I tal ian news agency, ANSA. It said most ofthe vic­tims were American, Argentine, Ger­man and English tourists. ANSA said at least five people were reported in serious condition, but several were treated at the hospital and released. 

The board met with Dean of The blast shattered windows in 
Student Affairs Sister Karol Jack-nearby clothing stores. 
.owski, who was present to speak Pools of blood, coffee cups, sil· 
about several problems that the verware and wine bottles covered 
Saint Mary's athletic department the ground. Patrons knocked over 
had last spring. chairs and small round tables in their 
"The meeting tonight was con­panic to escape. 
fidential because of a policy of "There was a hell of a noise. Any 
employee privacy," said Anne one who could ran away," said 
Marie Kollman, student body Domenico Dei Felice, a waiter who 
president. "We felt this issue was was working inside the cafe when 
not ~mething the entire com­the explosion occurred shortly after 
munity needed to know," she 
11:00 p.m. said. 
"There wasn't a lot ofshouting by Kollman would not specify the people, they were too stunned. what the problems in the athletic 
"There's liable to be a lot ofthings 
that come up that we don't know 
how to handle. It will be a big bonus 
to have a professional around," said 
Jim Hagan, off-campus senator. 
"I think Sting is a bigger draw than 
Tina Turner," said Howard. "Let's 
sell out and make a profit for a 
change," he said. 

The Turner concert did not sell 
out, but instead sold approximately 
7,000 tickets in her ACC appearance 
onSept. 1. 

Reminding the senate that the Stu­
dent Activities Board is not in the 
business of making money, Badin 
Hall President Judith Windhorst, 
said "We shouldn't have to worry 
about splitting our profits. 

"If we have to split profits with 
someone I will be happy to. If·we 
have to split losses ~ith someone I 
will be even more happy to," she 
said. 

Senator John Ginty questioned the need for Schwaab. "Why not just take the risk and cut her out? You could probably sell the thing out," he said. 
Sting sold out his l~t five shoW5 in New York, Mileti said. 
In other senate business, a resolu· tion was passed that confirmed the senate's desire to put a student on the Board of Trustees. Student Body President Bill Healy said there is a possibility of putting a student on the board, but added that the proposal was placed before the board in the early 1970s and had failed. 
Healy also asked the student body to give their support to the parents of injured Howard Hall freshman Kevin Hurley. Healy urged students to stop by Memorial Hospital of South Bend and give Hurley their support. 
The senate also voted to install Roberts Rules of Order, a guide to parliamentary procedure, to govern its meetings. 
"If students have questions about what was discussed at the meeting, they can talk to any stu­dent government representative or to Sister Karol)ackowski," said Kollman. 
Followingjackowski's talk, the closed section of the meeting ended and the regular agenda was discussed. 
An unusually large group of candidates for the Freshmen Ad­visory Council are preparing for the coming elections, she said. 
"There are 3 7 freshmen run­ning," said Kollman. "It is impor­tant that freshmen vote Wednesday in Haggar and that they bring their IDs," she said. 
A recent campus survey showed that students would prefer earlier lunch hours on 
j 
J 




wounded were believed to have AGI reported that many of the in­But they cried," said a newsstand department were. see SMC, page 4 been seriously hurt. juries came from glass shards. operator. 

The Observer Tuesday, September I 7, 1985 -page 2 

Pornographyshould be censored because it panders to an obsession with sex that is harming the nation, according to actress Jane Fonda. "A top priority in this country must be tracking down the money-makers and prosecuting them from here to kingdom come. Otherwise, we'll see the collapse of this nation," Fonda said in an interview with Ladies Home Journal. Asked about civil libertarians' objections to censorship, she said, "The Ten Com­mandments are a form of censorship. The laws of our land -all the things that encourage us to behave like human beings -are forms of censorship." Fonda called on those who influence society to erad­icate pornography. "There has to be a concerted effort by everyone who's involved in forming our culture -filmmakers, lawmakers and magazine publishers-to lower the temperature and stop this obses­sion with sex." -AP 
A student fashion poll by Levi Strauss found the preppy look . oversized shirts worn outside blue jeans, nerdy sunglasses and lace accessories -the overall fa~orite am?ng col~ege students. Punk, however, reigns in the East, while the M1dwest hkes Magnum PI Hawaiian shirts and baseball caps, along with Miami Vice t-shirts and blazers. -The Observer 


Of Interest 
The Thomas J. White Center on Law and 
Government is sponsoring a debate between Walter Black and Charles Wilber on the topic, "Perspectives on the Bishops' Letter on the Economy." The debate will be tomorrow at noon in Room 101 of the Law School. Block is director of the Centre for the Study of Economics and Religion at the Fraser Institute in Vancouver, B.C. Wilber is a professor ofEconomics at Notre Dame.-The Observer 
"The New Entrepreneurs: Today's unique Op­
portunities and Challenges" is the topic ofa lecture by Paula Nelson, author of many bestselling books on the acquisition of wealth in­cluding "TheJoy ofMoney." The lecture will be today at 3:30p.m. in the Hayes-ljealy Auditorium. Her lecture is sponsored by the Col­lege of Business Administration's Executive M.B.A. program. -The Observer 
Wednesday Fast participants are reminded 
the fast begins tomorrow. Participants are invited to join other fasters in prayer and discussion in the Meditation Room at the Center for Social Concerns during lunch from 12:15 p.m. until1 p.m. 
-The Observer 
Learn to teach illiterate adults how to read. A training session for any interested volunteers will be held tonight at 6:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. The session is sponsored by the Center for Basic Learning. -The Observer 
Student Alumni Relations Group applica­
tions are available until Sept. 25 at the Alumni Association Office, on the second floor of the Administration Building. Anyone with ques­tions about SARG can callJodie Githens at 283-2983.-The Observer 
The Cycling Club of Notre Dame will hold a general meeting tonight at 7 in the LaFortune Little Theater. Interested stu­dents are welcome to attend.. -The Observer 

Weather 
If it will only last through Satur­
day night, more than S9,000 fans will be grate­ful and may actually stay dry during a home football game. Partly sunny skies and mild tem­peratures are expected today. High in the middle to upper 70s. Partly cloudy are ex­pected tonight with a 20-percent chance of showers. Low in the low 60s. Partly sunny skies are also expected tomorrow with a 20 percent 

chance ofshowers. High around 80. -AP 
Design Editor............................. Tom Small Design Assistant.............. Tracy Schindele
The Observer-
Layout Staff........................... Kathy Huston Typesetters ...................... Suzanne Hammer lbe ObKrYer (USPS ~99 2-4000) i!i Mary Ellen Harrington published Monday through Friday and News Editor ............................. Scott Bearby on home: football Saturdays, except Copy Editor ...................... Mark Pankowski during exam and vacation periods. The Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf 0~is published by the students of Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Miriam Hill the University of Notre Dame and Saint Viewpoint Layout.. ................. Miriam Hill Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Accent Copy Editor..................Tim Adams purcha5c:d for $30 per year ( 120 per !iC· Accent Layout................ Mark Mclaughlin ~ter) by writins lbe Obeenn, P.O. .'VD Day Editor......................... Doug Hasler Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46~56. SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle 1be Obec;nn is a ~mbc:r of The Ad Design ............................Sharon Emmite ~d Pras. All rq>roduction Mary Carol Crcadon rights are re!iCrved. Photographer . ................_.Paul Pahorcsky 




Newspapers, networks sacrifice news integrity and seek popularity 
Network news is in trouble. In lieu of serious treat­ment ofdifficult subjects, network news operations are 
Sarah

emphasizing "ephemeral news-feature and personality coverage," according to syndicated columnist William 

Hamilton

Pfaff. Pfaff pinpointed television news' own commercial 
Editor-in-Chief

success as the root of the medium's problems in an es­say published in last Tuesday's Chicago Tribune. Once news programs became profitable they were forced into the ring to battle the rest of television for an Consequently, Pfaff may permit newspapers to publish audience. To win, Pfaff wrote, news operators have had such spectacles, but he might question their frequency to cheapen their products. and position in the paper. 

Just as he devoted last week's column to the decline Pfaff wrote that the serious transmittance of public of broadcast journalism, Pfaff could spend this week's affairs "is essential to the formation of opinion in a words on the downfall of printed news. He would be modern democracy." Too many newspapers and net­justified in accusing newspapers of the same faults for work news operations are failing in their responsibility which he scolded television, sacrificing serious news to report the serious news to the public. for personality, glamour and violence. Demanding something be done, Pfaffsuggested an In­
More and more newspapers are striving for a graphic dependent Television News service. Such a system look full of color and spec­would be removed from the tacle -because it sells. On commercialism which ties the same day Pfaff berated existing news operations to network news in the their financial statements. Tribune, USA Today The ITN would provide all published on its front page networks with news programs, therefore, avoid­
the menu for that night's 

"~:::=====::;::--;:;~ 
ing a ratings war. along with photos of Dan 
presidential state dinner, 

Neither this nor a parallel Rather, Christina Ferrare 
system for print news is the and the stars of "Miami _ 
answer. The press cannot be Vice," all guests of President -=: 
spoon fed a remedy from Reagan, and hot com­anyone outside the modities. newsroom. Such a solution 
Sun-Times readers picked would jeopardize the free up Tuesday's paper to see a flow of news to the public. picture of a lightning-struck Consequently, the public man on a hospital bed would be hampered in for­showing off his scars. On the ming opinions and con· front page of Sunday's f.A.A2(\.W8MHOI..."'T tributing to the modern 
Tempo section, Rupert Mur· democracy to which Pfaff doch's competitor featured a story on the divorcees of refers. Hollywood stars, and how they are coping. 
Since the 18th century the system ofdispensing news
For more than a few decades the two news media 
in this country has been a commercial one. Merchantshave co-existed, trading off periods of popularity. To known as journalists sell news based on its accuracy,say they have co-existed, however, is not to say all has integrity and fairness.
been quiet on the journalistic front. Both the broadcast and print media have tried to imitate characteristics of the other in hopes of boosting either their ratings or As part ofthe free enterprise sys~em, news merchants circulation. For example, the CBS Morning News calls must not let the dollar sign dog their operations or 
their purposes. There must be more to the news busi­
its top story the "cover story." A cover story on televi­ness than the profit margin. Othen.vise news organiza­
sion? It seems the Columbia Broadcasting Company is playing on the image and attention a newspaper or tions are cutting their own throats to stufftheir wallets. magazine's front page story receives. On the other hand, to explain the U.S. anti-satellite Rather than creating an independent news service, weapon, Sunday's Chicago Tribune used what looked existing news operations need to broadcast and publish like a still shot of a graphic one of the networks might as independent thinkers aware oftheir responsibility to animate for broadcast. the public. News organizations cannot stoop in order to Obviously, newspapers have more space than a 22-thrill their audiences and readerships. Instead, the press minute news program and an occasional documentary. must help the public to stand tall as a democracy. 
Thanks to you... A 

********************* 
ltworks... ¥ 

*FOOTBALL ~ 
for All OF US u....IWIIu 


~ CONCESSION ~ 
..---W-r-i-te_r_s,-B-I-oc-k--.* STANDS* 
Cured ~ Clubs/Organizations must pick up concession ~ Send $2 for catalog of *stand packets in the Student Activities * over 16,000 topics, to '-'... Office by WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18. All '-'... assist your writing eff-l: unclaimed concession packets will be given l. orts and help you beat ~ ~ Wr i ter:s I Block. For info. I '-'... to clubs on the list of alternates. '-'... call TOLL-FREE 1-BOQ-621-~ Jilllf" 
574 5 • ( In Illinois ' call * •Concession stand list is posted outside of * 312-922-0300 • ) Authors 1 Re-~ the Student Activities Office. '-'­search, Rm. ~N, 407 South ~ Jllllf" Dearborn, Chicago IL 60605. *'******************** 



Viewpoint wants you! 
Mary lkr!JC'r The following people who signed up to work for The Observer's Kevin Hoar 
Barb Bolla Terry Kibelstis 
Viewpoint department, and anyone else interested in writing for 
Suey Bonnani Greg Kinzelman
Viewpoint this year, should attend a brieforientation meeting. The
Uam Brennan Terry Lynch 
Molly Bunchaell meeting is for ND-SMC students and will be held at the following Coll~n Maloney Shawn Bushway location: Dave McCaw Tim Clark Mau Micros Pat Connor5 Yanita Mirchandani Pat Cusack Allison Pivonb 
TonyDa..non Carl Putnam 
The New Orleans Room 
Joe Depiro Kelly Sive Mark Orajen John Stoepier Usa Emlong MikeTarm
LaFortune Student Center 
Michael Farnon Tom Varnum Celeste Freind Peter Winy
We<;lnesday, Sept. 18 
John Griffin Eric Wold lkth Healy Klm Yuratovac
Sp.m. 

The Observer Tuesday, September 17, 1985 -page 3 


Security phone rejected; other plans safe 



l 
l 
API'boto 
Susan Akin, the 1986 Miss America, makes sure her crown ts secure before a recent public appearance. Akin, from Mississippi, was awarded the title on Saturday. 
~IRELAND 
\!J!I PROGRAM Information Meeting 



TONIGHT 
6:30p.m.. 
at 304 Haggar College Center SMC 


Everyone Welcome 

By ANN KALTENBACH 
Senior StaffReporter 
Although Saint Mary's security is 
continuing its effor_t to increase 
campus safety, the proposed im­
plementation ofa security phone on 
Saint Mary's main drive was recently 
rejected, said Robert Foldesi, direc­
tor ofadministrative services. 
Foldesi said the proposal was 
brought to his attention by Anne 
Marie Kollman, Saint Mary's student 
body president. 
Foldesi, however, shied away from the phone installation proposal. "Many students supported the idea of a phone, but we are con­cerned ofits misuse," explained Fol­desi. 
"Officers may be taken away from their duties and emergencies if stu­dents misuse it," he added. 
Foldesi questioned if there was a real need for the phone. "There is a mobile officer on campus from 6 
p.m. 
to 12 a.m. on weeknights and 6 

p.m. 
to 2 a.m. on weekends," he said, adding, "The lighting is excellent on the walkway." Foldesi also said the installation of a phone may be a needless expense because a new security booth may be built there next year. 


He said the signage committee is considering building a permanent brick structure at the intersection of the main drive and Madaleva Drive. 
Richard Clebek, director of Saint Mary's security, said the final deci­sion on the construction of a new security building will be made jointly by the Sisters of the Holy Cross and the College administra­tion. 
They are still in the midst of choosing an exact location, he said. They also need to approve an ar­chitectural layout and plan for the building's utilization, he said. 
Clebek said the building could be 
staffed with dispatchers 24 hours a 
day or just staffed during the early 
morning hours of 6 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
on weekdays and 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. on 
weekends. 
"This building (the present 
security station) would remain and 
function as a report place for of­
ficers," Clebek said. 
Clebek stated that construction 
may begin next year. He and Foldesi 
said that the security building is the 
fourth of the proposals to be under­
taken by the signage co_mmittee. 
Regarding the May assault of a Saint Mary's student on the road bet­ween Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, Foldesi said there was no attempt to hush rumors ofthe incident. 
"When a sexual assault takes 
place, it is to be reported to Public 
Relations. They are directed to in­
form The Observer and local 
newspapers. They are also to inform 
the public ofany danger." 
Added Foldesi, "There is no need 
to hide anything." 
Clebek cited a campus-wide letter sent to all students from Sister Karol Jackowski, dean of Student Affairs, informingSaint Mary's women ofthe dangers of walking alone, as a security precaution which has been taken. i 
I

Clebek said he will soon be sen­ding letters to students informing I 
, J

them of the escort service available at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. In this letter, he also will advise stu­dents to travel in groups and not to walk or jog alone. 
"(From) October 6th to the 12th, we will put on a series ofsafety semi­nars in residence halls in conjunc­tion with the residence life staffs to make girls aware that they are their own best protection," he said. 
Clebek said students also will be informed on measures they can take to protect themselves. 
Citiag other security provisions to be taken, Clebek continued, "Security will periodically produce pamphlets on self-defense and protecting their property. Hope­fully, some of that will make stu­dents aware ofnot only the danger at Saint Mary's and Notte Dame, but also neighboring communities as well." 
ND/SMC crosswalk studied 
By ANN KALTENBACH 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Recognizing the safety problem at the crosswalk on U.S. 31-33 North between Saint Mary's and Notte Dame, Richard Clebek, director of Saint Mary's security, recently re­quested a traffic and safety improve­ment study to be done by the Indiana State Highway Department. 
Clebek, in a letter dated August 7th, petitioned John Isenbarger, director ofHighways for the Indiana State Highway Department, to inves­tigate the dangerous area. 
and Douglas Road along U.S. 31-33 North. 
The first request involved placing a strobe light on the traffic signal to warn motorists of pedestrian traffic. The second called for the installa­tion ofpedesttian crossing signs. 
The third recommendation in­volved extending the delay between light cycles to ensure that north and south-bound traffic is stopped, thereby allowing motorists exiting the campus to do so safely. The fourth proposed extending the light­ing at least 100 feet further north and south of the toll road entrance 


Big Red Q Quickprint Center is changing its name to Express Press of Indiana, Incorporated effective May 6th 1985 
Our franchise agreement with Big Red Q Quickprint has come to an end, and we determined that our customers could be best served by becoming an in­dependent Quickprinter. This decision was made because we have developed into a larger company than a typical franchised Quickprinter, with more diver­sified printing, typesetting, and high speed copying skills. We now possess in­house the talent to provide everything the franchise did formerly-without the extra financial bu~den of the franchise royalty payments. Needless to say, this will help us maintain our keen competitive edge well into the future. 
During the past year, in addition to completing our new facility here in South Bend, we have opened a second location in Michigan City, Indiana, upgraded our typesetting equipment to Compugraphic's newest, finest state of the art equipment, added a new printing press that allows us to print 2 colors on the sheet at once, and have just installed a high speed copier that will copy one or both sides of the sheet, collate simultaneously and do it very rapidly, allowing us to extend some very special prices for your multi-original, short run copying, booklet, manual, or legal brief. 
So when you see the new Express Press sign, and hear us answer the phone "Express Press" remember we are moving ahead in Quickprinting even further. 
We appreciate your business and look forward to serving you better in the future. 
~ )....---Thank you, 
/~ ...... _1\,..,:..,.\u 

~~ 111~ Express Press of Indiana, Incorporated 

~ 
/o/~~ya¢JJ. 
~.~~ ~~~ tJ3­
The request was made a month for vehicular anQ pedestrian traffic. before Kevin Hurley, a Notre Dame 
The final recommendation in­
freshman, was hit and critically 
volved the installation of automatic 
injured at the intersection. 
ttaffic signals at the intersection and 
In reference to the Sept. 7 acci­
toll road exit. Security proposed that 
dent and the safety problem bet­
this signal should be functioning at 
ween the the two campuses, Clebek 
least one hour before and after nor­
said, "There isn't much we can do to 
mal business hours, during events,
control those things." 
or when it is tripped automatically
Nevertheless, Clebek's proposal 
by vehicles on Douglas Road. 

included five recommendations to improve pedestrian safety for in­Clebek expects to receive its dividuals that utilize the area bet­recommendations by the end ofOc­ween Saint Mary's main entrance tober or early November, he said. 
THE ACTION LOOK of '85 from HARRIET'S! Only $25 
Hand painted red art nouveau hearts create a sensational look ... whether you feel like jogging or simply lounging In this sweat­shirt with matching pull-on pants I Fleeced coHon-back poly knit keeps you cozy and comfort­able. Elastic at wrists. waist and ankles. Machine wash 
and dry. Your choice of white or grey. 
P.O. Box 37 Leesburg, IN 46538 


----------------------------,I
Size: Circle one Nome:_________________ s M L 1 
Address: Color: Circle one I White Grey I 
City:---------St.: ___Zip:___ Total : 
Please send me (Qty.) Art Nouveau Tax (5%) 1 
~ 

Jogging Sult(s) at $25.00 each. !S3 Stii per suttl TOTAt I 
-Yayment enclosed (check or money order) Mall to: · I 
Harriet's Dress Shop I 
Charge to my_ VISA__Mastercard 
P.O. Box37 1
Cord oo. _____________________ 
Leesburg, IN 46538 I 


325 Dixieway North • South Bend, Indiana 46637 • [219) 277-3355 2107 Franklin Street • Michigan City, Indiana 46360 • [219) 874-2223 

.. 
' 
I' 
The Observer 

Tuesday, September 17, 1985 -page 4 
Planes strike Angola while unrest continues in S. Africa 
A880Clated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa · Troops and warplanes swept into southern Angola yesterday to strike South-West African guerrillas the military said were planning attacks on towns and military bases in the territory. 
Meanwhile, racial unrest per· !jisted in South Africa as hundreds of high school students in Johannes­burg's huge black township of Soweto went on a rampage because of rumors that black leader Nelson Mandela had died in jail. Mandela's wife said the rumors were false. 
Angola's Marxist government was informed of the strike against guer­rillas of the South-West Africa People's Organization and warned 


Survey 
continuedfrom page 1 
services Catholic Social Services, Women's Care Center, Planned Parenthood and Birthline have to of­fer. 
In the section titled "Other Sexual Issues," instances of possible sexual harrassment were listed, and stu· dents were asked to state their opinions. The majority said they thought men whistling at women was offensive, as was being called "honey." 
A majority of students also said a stranger putting his arm on them was offensive. 
"This gives a baseline from which we know how students feel and how to address the issue of sexual har­rassment," Feeley said. 
A majority of students also said sexual harrassment does not occur at Saint Mary's, socially or in the clas­sroom. Sixty percent indicated that sexual harrassment does not occur frequently on the Notre Dame campus. 
Feeley stated that she was pleased with the students' response to the questions concerning the formation of a Sexuality Education Council on " campus. A majority said they would attend a course on human sexuality and liked the idea ofattending a one­hour program in the residence halls. The Sexuality Education Council will design a program b'ased on the results of the survey. Before the end ofthe semester, the council hopes to 

! 
i 
( 
SMC 

( 
continuedfrom page 1 

( Saturdays and Sundays. "The results were given to SAGA Food Services," said Kollman. She said she plans to meet with representatives of the 
f food service to discuss these results. 
( The library may open earlier on 
( Sundays because of a recent survey 
( showing that a majority of students 
I would prefer new hours. Approximately 40 members of the faculty, administration and staff responded to the parietal survey given last week. Depending on the results, week­day parietals may change from the current 4 p.m. time to 5 p.m. Hall 
( 
desk workers monitoring the use of ,, the early parietal hours by students 
r 
tallied a very low response, she said. 
"lfthe current hours do not affect too many members ofstaffwe could posssibly give them keys to the buildings," said Kollman. "Otherwise the hours will change from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m.," she said. 
"An Ethnic Diversity Committee will be formed to make students more aware of the ethnic diversities on our campus," said Kollman. Mem­bers will meet to discuss possible ac­tivities to promote awareness. 
The new book list policy was a success, according to Mary Lally, a council representative. "The only thing people didn't cooperate with was taking the signs down after three weeks," said Lally. 

"not to interfere," according to Gen. Constand Viljoen, the armed forces commander. 
It was the second strike in 10 
weeks inside Angola, where about 
25,000 Cuban troops are based. 

Viljoen gave no indication of the size of the force, its targets or how deeply it penetrated. Southern An· gola is the base area ofSWAPO guer­rillas fighting for the independence of South-West Africa, a mineral-rich territory also known as Namibia that South Africa has controlled since World War I. 
"One follow-up can lead to anot­her ... Hopefully it (the strike) will be over within a week," Lt. Gen. Ian Gleason, the army chief ofstaff, said last night on the government· contolled television. 
Witnesses at Grootfontein, I 57 
miles south of Angola and South 
Africa's main Namibian air base, said 
air force Mirage jets took off at 
various times during the day. 

Viljoen said reconnaissance and intelligence-gathering operations established that guerrillas planned long-range bombardments of military bases and attacks on big towns and residential areas in the nonhero part of the disputed ter­ritory. 
SWAPO has not been known to have long-range artillery in its battle for Namibia, which South Africa governs under a League of Nations mandate abrogated by the U.N. General Assemby in 1966. 
Gleason said troops· were pursu­ing the guerrillas' 8th Battalion, 
which he estimated at 400 to 800 
men and said was "well-dispersed" 
in southern Angola. He said it was 
the unit that was to have made the 
attacks. 
After the last crossborder strike early in July, Viljoen said his forces killed S 7 guerrillas and lost one man in a two-day operation. The July strike was the first since South Africa completed a negotiated withdrawal of its forces, a year late, from sout­hern Angola. 
SWAPO guerrillas have fought a 19-year guerrilla war for Namibia that has killed nearly l0,000 guerril­las and 566 South African troops, by South Africa's official count. 
The white-minority government has ignored U.N. demands for a cease-fire and independence for the terr'itory. About l million people 

live in Namibia, 90 percent of them 
black or of mixed race. 
In Soweto, students streamed from Orlando High School and stoned vehicles in response to the rumors about Mandela, witnesses reported. Three armored vehicles moved up to the school, firing tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse the students. 
Bus services ceased in most parts of Soweto by early evening after youths in two other districts, Or­lando West and Dube, stoned buses and set fire to a delivery truck. A post-nightfall police communique ,. said several vehicles were destroyed and soldiers firing birdshot wounded one youth. 

MID .. EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
• .,.,._,_. • ~~H• DU~wt FOODS SHAWBIUtA -MUO£DERA • BABA GHENOUJ 
HOMMUS. FELAFEL 
TEBBOULI SAI,AD SOUTH lEND • LEBAIIES. STYLE 
• 
Pit• SIM/fetl ~ GVIfOS 

•IHliflatfwl 
Putrit~• Turleula Coff•• 288-5639 


Tu•• • s.t 5:30PM • 9:30PM COMPLETE CATERING FOR 838 Portage
PARTIES. BANQU~ 


IOi..Discount for ND/SMC Students 
ttyour record of achieve· mentdemonstrates academic and extracurricular success, we'd like to meet you. 
Contactyour placement 

office to-arrange interview times, 
orwrib.ltO Mr. Tim Botema at 
. Steel~~e lnc., P.O. Box 196 7. 

· ·.. · . Granq J;I~Pi(js •. Michi~an 49501. · ·.· eQYfilf9.PP<:>rtunltY ~mptoyer. 
go to each residence hall so that they can discuss the survey, its results and the programs to be offered, Feeley said. 
The council also hopes to build programs around the different areas in the survey, she said. These programs would include both in-hall and campus-wide speakers. 
The council wants to find a space on campus for a Women's Resource Center. This center would have material for all issues concerning women, and a trained staff of faculty and students, Feeley said. 
"I think this survey began a more open atmosphere on campus. It sort of gave students permission to dis­cuss issues concerning their sexuality and their ability to make decisions concerning themselves," she said. 
"I'm glad to find that the students, faculty and administration are taking things seriously," Feeley said, ad­ding, "I feel very positively about the survey and the Sexuality Education Council." 
~i~~~_()__l_._ll__t__________________ru-es-da~y-,Se•pt-em_b_er-17_,_19-85--p-ag_e_s Education on birth control has not been problem 
It is singularly appropriate that Bill Krais' Viewpoint (Sept. I 0) advocating birth control should have appeared on the same page with John O'Callaghan's letter bemoaning the lack of a Catholic viewpoint at Notre Dame. Clearly Krais' piece is meant to challenge the Church's teaching on birth control. What dis­tinguishes his piece is the lack of understand­ing of the reasons why the Church teaches that contraception is wrong. 
Janet Smith 
guest column 
Krais speaks compassionately about the dif­ficulties of those facing unwanted preg­nancies, especially the young and unmarried. He offers strictly utilitarian or consequen­tialist solutions to this problem; he argues that the best solution, the most workable solution, the utilitarian solution, to this problem is to educate the public about birth control. He believes that if more young people knew about contraception, there would be fewer unwanted pregnancies. 
I wonder ifKrais has consulted the available literature on the question of the connection between the use of contraception and un­wanted pregnancies. I recommend to him Kristan Luker's book, "Taking Chances: Abor­tion and the Decision Not to Contracept." Luker (who is both pro-contraception and pro-abortion, and thus without a bias against contraception) has discovered that 80 per­cent of the women who seek abortion are ex­perienced with contraceptives. That is, they have used contraception carelessly or 
Petty complaints do not solve bad situations 
Dear Editor: 
The Viewpoint article of Monday, Sept. 9, concerning the depressing aspects of life at Notre Dame showed an attitude toward-, Notre Dame and the South Bend area which believe is becoming too prevalent among stu­dents. During my three plus years of study here I have read too many articles and heard too many comments criticizing the social life, the Administration's decisions regarding the grass and the Indiana weather. If this place is so lousy, why did all these cynics decide to come in the first place? There must be some redeeming quality to attract these people to the University of Notre Dame, located in 
Doonesbury 

stopped using contraception. 
Luker tells us that most of the reasons have 
to do with the ambiguous status of the 
relationships in which the women are in­
volved; many of these women "half­
accidentally" and "half-purposely" get 
pregnant in order to determine how much 
their partners do in fact care for them. Her 
studies also show that young teenagers par­
ticularly have a resistance to using contracep­
tion; they do not like to have a self-image of 
themselves as one who is "ready to have sex." 
Nor does Krais give any indication that he is aware of the abortifacient capacities of the most popular forms ofcontraception. Many, if not most, forms of the pill do not work by stopping ovulation, but work after conception has occurred; that is, they are not con­traceptive, but are abortive; they work by ren­dering the uterine wall hostile to the fertilized egg. The IUD works only by causing early­term abortions. 
I mention all this to suggest to Krais that his utilitarian solution to unwanted pregnancies may in fact bring about the opposite result he seeks and that one ofthe results ofwidespread use of contraception is more abortions, more deaths of unborn children · abortions which the women don't even know they are having. 
I wonder how well Krais knows the women, and often girls, behind the statistics of un­wanted pregnancies. Very few are uneducated about birth control. I have heard the sad tales ofmany ofthese young women and can testify that what they need is not more access to birth control but loving friends and greater love and respect for themselves; some ofthem think the only way they can be loved is by having sex. 
Yes, the availability of the pill does make it hard for these young women to say no. As I have suggested, it is particularly hard for them to say no, since many of them come from broken or troubled homes, and thus feel unloved. They hope to find love in sexual relationships, but regularly find themselves exploited and rejected. Few ofthem are really happy in relationships involving sex. To the question, "Has having sex improved your relationship with your boyfriend?" teenagers regularly answer in the negative. 
Contraception will not help these young women with their problems, it will only help them prolong their problems. What they need to learn about is what makes for good relation­ships, how to plan for the goals they hope to achieve in life, and how to say no to the ex­ploitive relationships they have been involved in. This kind of education, this kind of loving concern is much more time consuming. much more personally demanding, than simply giving them more contraception. 
Still, it is not right to conduct this argument only on utilitarian or consequentialist grounds; such arguments generally are faulty since nearly any act, nor matter how vicious can be justified from this perspective (racism, obliteration bombing). Yet, those were the grounds chosen by Krais, and I wished to show him that · those indeed are shaky grounds. 
The Church's arguments are based on the Christian view of the dignity of the human person. Krais is writing a column for a newspaper serving a Catholic campus, yet he seems to have little acquaintance with Church teaching on this matter. If he has read the teachings of the Church on this subject, it would serve him and his readers well if he would address the arguments presented against contraception. Many who have strong 
P.O. BoxQ 
South Bend, Indiana. I do not know if Broderick wrote his column meaning to be sarcastic (the last paragraph does give hints of his interest in continuing to participate in the activities he criticizes) but I believe that there have been enough cynical and sarcastic ar­ticles. Take a look at the good points of Notre Dame and South Bend! 
Paul F. Derwent Grace Hall 

How long before South ·Bend is a dry city? 
DearEditor: 

It must be more than coincidence that this sudden rampage by the South Bend police on off-campus social activities comes the year 
I 7HaJ6HT YOO SIWW OKAY, THIS IS £XJN JCJ-fN50N,
WHAT'S 
A "MIAMI VICE" 

5eE FOR YWRSaF WHY WHO PIAY5 SOWYCf<VCK£TT.
THIS? TAPe. I GOT 

IT'S 5U01 AN HONOI< 70 H&'S TH& ONE 7HATMY 
8tASKBJ70 CHARACfe<.
~~~ .TH& 5TIJPIO 

L.1§,~,. 00 TH& 5HaA/. ~=..,_ FALL.S fOR..
70 5f.NO IT 
OVCR. 

I I
I 

atter the administration institutes its new al­cohol policy. Hasn't anyone noticed that over the last couple months two, and possibly three, of the four most popular student drink· ing establishments have been forced to close by the police? Hasn't anyone noticed the con­voys of up to eight police cars that drive arou~d shutting down our off-campus parties? 
I know of at least six parties in the last few days which were halted by these law enforce­ment officials who use numerous vehicles and excessive manpower for up to an hour to con­trol us wild, insane, almost savage college stu­dents. Then after being forced to leave the party and go home, we find our houses broken into and it takes the cops 4S minutes to get there. Slightly twisted priorities, huh? What happened to the old warnings by one officer that we are all used to? 
Garry Trudeau 

KINO OF 
HUH?.• I

5e&IJY-tiXJK/NS, 
MEAN, Y/33!

15N'TH&2
, 
IUREAUY HAV87VACT 
UPA STORM. 
I 

views on the morality of contraception have 
never read, pondered, or prayed over the 
Church's teaching on these matters. 
PopeJohn Paul II reiterates this teaching at nearly every opportunity and has given several lecture series explaining why the use of contraception is wrong. His arguments focus on hu!Jlan dignity and the type of be­havior which is worthy of the human person; he speaks about the demands oflove and what truly constitutes the union which lovers desire; he argues that sex which is not open to procreation is not unitive. 
The two purposes of sex truly are in­separable. He argues that couples certainly may choose to limit their family size, but that natural methods must be used, methods which enhance our virtue rather than in­crease our dependence on chemicals and mechanical devices. 
The Pope's argument is complex and sop­histicated -not served wdl by quick summary or by quick rejection. Many Catholics deny that they have an obligation to accept the Church's teachings on faith and morals. But surely all Catholics and, for that matter, all honest and open-minded people wishing to come to terms with the issue ofcontraception should read carefully the documents of the Church conveying this teaching. Those who read "Humanae Vitae," Pope John Paul II's "Love and Responsibility," "Familiaris Con­sortio," and his lecture series, "Reflections on Humanae Vitae," will find that the argument is subtle and strong and worthy of more than a quick dismissal on consequentialist grounds. 
janet E. Smith is an assistant professor in the Program of Liberal Studies and is the chainnan of the board of the Women's Care Center. 
This activity is new and I don't think it's any. coincidence that it occurs right after the· declaration of the glorious alcohol policy. 
, They take away our on-campus social life, so we move off, and then they somehow pressure South Bend into eliminating our so­cial activities off-campus too. What's going on? 
How long before South Bend is proclaimed a dry city? I'm glad I don't have to put up with this much longer. In the meantime, take The Observer's advice and give them a jingle down at the police station before your next party. Let'em know just what you're up to. That way, they can keep a nice close eye on you and your friends and we'll all be safe from any possible corruption. 
Austin P. Henry Notre Dame Student 
Quote of the day 
"Knowledge is gained by learning; trust by doubt; skill by practice; and love by love." 
Thomas Szasz 
"The Second Sin" 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
-=--_Ihe=Obset:Ver.~. 

Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager...................... David Stephen1tch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller...... .. ····-···· William J. Highducheck News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager .. ..................... Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager.......................John A. Mennell
administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor.............. . .......................... Jeff Blumb 
Sible. Uns1gned editorials represent th3 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ............. ........................... Mary Healy 
tanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ........... ....................... Joe Murphy 
ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches
campus. through letters. is encouraged. 

Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Lipo Founded November 3, 1966 
Accent 



Eric Bergamo 
features writer 


L 
ike the leaves turning golden 
brown and the air becoming 
cool, there are several events that 
signify the end ofsummer and the 
beginning ofautumn. Heralded 
from high and low, each sign 
promises great things for us. 
Unfortunately, some ofthem 
don't fufill these high expectations. 
Yes, it's the fall season oftelevi­sion, when the three networks go toe to toe to get us to spend our precious evening hours watching them. An avalanche ofnew series, movie premieres, mini-series, and specials will try to gain our atten­tion and win the coveted Neilsen ratin~ title. 
As for sports, ABC will cover the World Series, with NBC showing the League Championships. NBC has the rights to Super Bowl XXI from the Superdome in New Or­leans. College football will be on all three networks as the football avalanche continues. CBS will cover the "Road to Dallas" and the finals ofthe NCAA basketball champion­ships. ABC's "Wide World of Sports" will celebrate its silver anniversary this season. 
Who will win the ratings war? We'll find out officially nextJune, but I have my own prediction. ABC will still remain in third, not able to 

-
-
make up the ground between it and the other two networks. The battle will be between NBC and CBS, and it will be a close one decided by tenths ofa rating point. "Miami Vice" will overpower "Falcon Crest." "Amazing Stories!" will be the big hit ofthe new season and we'll see a decline in the popularity of the prime time soaps. 
Who will win the 1985 fall season? NBC. 
Now remember, these are just early season predictions. The final judgments will come when I see these shows this fall. The choice will be yours also. You can watch one ofthe new shows, or you can change the channel. That's the easiest decision ofall. 


Left, Richard Dean Anderson, as "MacGyver, ••shown climbing stairs on a mission. Right, Nicholas Campbell and Stoney Jackson stand ready to face any elusive story that comes their way. Both shows are on ABC. 
NBC looks to top Nielsens 
N 
BC used to be known as the 
loser network, but not 
anymore. The network's fortunes 
turned surprisingly good in the last 
St:ason. 
The Thursday night lineup of "The Cosby Show," "Family Ties," "Cheers," and "Night Court" was practically unbeatable in the ratings. The acclaimed "Miami Vice," combining rock music, sharp editing, fantastic sets and color schemes, excellent acting, and superb scripts, shot into the Top 10 over the summer and earned 1 5 Emmy nominations. 
It is with this base that NBC will begin its assault on CBS for the top spot in television. Six series debut on NBC this fall season. 
• 
"The Golden Girls" could well be called "Miami Nice" by NBC. Four older women, played by Bea Arthur, Betty White, Rue McClanahan, and Estelle Getty, occupy a house in southern Florida. Can a sitcom turn "old" into golden laughs? Consider­ing that the creator is Susan Harris, the lady behind "Soap" and "Benson," it might just do that. 

• 
What would be your reaction if you heard that NBC gave a certain producerI director a contract to produce 44 episodes ofa series without fear ofbeing cancelled? The network has gone mad, right? Wrong, considering said producer 



is one Steven Spielberg and the series is "Amazing Stories!" Most of the information on this half-hour anthology series is hush-hush until it premieres Sept. 29. What is known is who some ofthe directors of the episodes are -names like Clint Eastwood, Martin Scorcese, Brian DePalma, and Timothy Hut­ton. Spielberg will be the executive producer and has written most of the scripts. IfSpielberg can translate his magic from the big screen to the small screen, "Amazing Stories!" may be just that. 
NBC 

• 
The Master of Horror, Alfred Hitchcock, is coming to NBC as "Alfred Hitchcock Presents" returns to television. The half-hour show, following "Amazing Stories!" will present new or updated versions of the tales ofmystery that were shown during the series' first run from 1955 to 1965. The introduc­tions to the episodes, featuring Hitchcock, will be transformed from black and white to color by a new computer process. 

• 
Robert Blake as a ghetto priest?! Yes, you heard right. Blake plays Father Noah "Hardstep" Rivers in 



"Hell Town," a place where problems are numerous, yet the intrepid priest tries to solve them 
all through prayer and a little street 
savvy. 
• 
Prime time's newest heroes are an odd lot on "Misfits ofScience." One can turn objects to ice. Anot­her can shoot bolts ofelectricity. Mental power helps another to move objects, and the last ofthe group can shrink from his 7'4" height to the size ofa Ken doll. Needless to say, these four make for an interesting crime-fighting team. 

• 
"227" is the address ofa Was­hington, D.C. tenement where Marla Gibbs and her family live. As usual, Gibbs and her sharp tongue will provide most ofthe laughs for this series. 

• 
On the movie scene, NBC will premiere "Annie," the Broadway musical brought to the silver screen. 1982's "An Officer and a Gentleman" also premieres this season, and the big laughs will come from th.e Eddie Murphy hit "48 Hrs." As for mini-series, Maxi­millian Schell will star in the nine hour "Peter the Great." George C. Scott will headline "Mussolini: The Untold Story." 


With this lineup, NBC hopes to permanently shed its "loser" image and display what really beautiful peacock feathers it has. 


Tuesday, September 1 7, 1985 -page 6 -7 
3 networks display 'vices' for copycat shows and nostalgia 

Another bad year for ABC? 

CBS struggles to defend title 
/fred Hitchcock, in the photo at right, engages in some wacky Alfred Hitchcock Presents" both look to score big on NBC. 

'Spenser: For Hire," on ABC this fall. 


F
OR ABC, last season was a ratings disaster as it finished a distant third behind rejuvenated NBC and CBS. ABC's only certified hit was the supersoap "Dynasty." Hoping to spring back to life this season, ABC unveils eight new series, the most ofany network. • The "Hollywood Beat" is turffor two undercover cops who depend on an assortment of"interesting" friends to nab the bad guys who invade their turf. Most outstanding of these friends is ex-L.A. Raider John Matuszak, who plays a gay restaurant owner. Telling gay jokes around him may prove to be very detrimental to one's health. 
• 
Robert Wagner returns to TV as a suave insurance investigator in "lime Street." The locales promise to be exotic, the crimes dastardly, and the women beautiful. Veteran actor Lew Ayres also appears as Wagner's father. 

• 
Using ordinary objects to get out of extraordinary trouble is the trademark of"MacGyver." Richard Dean Anderson plays this scientific Indiana jones who is more likely to use a paper clip than a bullwhip when facing up to the bad guys. 


• After striking out in late-night television, Alan Thicke takes his -shot at making it in prime time on the comedy "Growing Pains." He plays a sitcom father with a typical sitcom family. It will need a lot more than that to succeed, scheduled against the powerful "A-Team." 
ABC 
• 
The struggle between a family of mobsters and a family ofhonest cops is the central story of"Our Family Honor." One subplot in­volves the mobster's son falling in love with the policeman's daughter, who is also a rookie cop. Eli Wal­lach is cast, quite naturally, as the patriarch of the mobster family. 

• 
"The Insiders" are not cops, but magazine writers who go under­cover to dig up the real big stories. One ofthem is a dead ringer for Prince and some of the production techniques look as if they have been taken from a certain NBC series set in a certain city in Florida. 

• 
It is a rule ofTV thumb that hit series spawn spinoffs, and 


"Dynasty" is no exception as it 
gives birth to "Dynasty II: The 

Colbys." The cast is filled with big 
names like Charlton Heston and 
Barbara Stanwyck, and the clothes 
and settings promise to be as 

glamorous as "Dynasty." Still, one 
thing bothers me. How did Pamela 
Sue Martin transform into Emma 
Samms? 

• 
Private detectives usually don't quote authors such as Wordsworth, but "Spenser: For Hire" does. He's also a gourmet cook and tough in the clinch. Robert Urich, last seen on "Vegas," stars in the role made popular by a series ofbooks by Robert B. Parker. 

• 
ABC has lined up some notable movies for premiere on its network. "The Right Stuff" heads the list, a stunning tale ofthe beginnings of our space program. "Tootsie" and "Mr. Mom" offer Dustin Hoffman and Michael Keaton in these two notable comedies. For high ad­veftture, there is "Blue Thunder " Ambitious projects are in the works for ABC's miniseries. The two Civil War novels ofJohnJakes, "North and South" and "Love and War," will make for 24 hours ofprogramming .this season. 


Jay Acovone (left) and Jack Scalia star as a pair oftough cops on the new ABC show. 
C 
BS finished the 1984 
season on the top ofthe Niel­
sen race, but had to fight offup-and­
comer NBC to do so. CBS will look 
to retain that lofty position by 
debuting six new series oftheir 
own. 

• 
"Hometown" premiered last month to very good reviews. The show presents the lives and loves of seven friends who met in the '60s, and who are now coping with the problems of the '80s. It does sound a lot like the plot of"The Big Chill," but it has the potential to try material that wasn't touched in the movie. 

• 
See ifthis premise sounds familiar: middle class black parents cope with the problems ofraising their children. "The Cosby Show"? No, it's "Charlie and Company." Flip Wilson plays the Bill Cosby role in this show. 

• 
Ifyou can have an adventure anthology series, why not have a comedy anthology? That is just the idea behind "George Burns Com­


edy Week." Ifthe genius ofGeorge Burns can be utilized properly, this show could be the surprise hit of the season. 
• Turning a hit movie into a weekly series can be tricky business. It can work well or it can bomb. CBS is hoping that it can turn the Richard Pryor/Gene Wilder hit movie "Stir Crazy" into a hit series. Two un­knowns, Joe Guzaldo and Larry Riely, will try to fill the shoes of Wilder and Pryor. Good luck. guys. 
CBS 
• Being harassed by a tnurderous maniac? Why not just open the newspaper to find the advertise­ment for "The Equalizer"? The Equalizer, played by Edward Wood­ward, is a former operative ofthe CIA who has decided to offer his dubious services to the public. 
• 
The phrase, "You are now enter­ing 'lbe Twilight Zone'," will be heard once more on CBS as they resurrect the series that has gained cult status in syndication. The stories will be new, and will be performed by a different cast each week. 

• 
CBS is letting loose a deluge of theatrical movie premieres for this season. At the top of the list is "Sophie's Choice" and "lbe Big Chill." As for comedy, there will be "The Man with Two Brains," "Risky Business," "National Lampoon's Vacation," and "Airplane II: The Sequel." For adventure buffii there is "High Road to China" and "Blade Runner." "All the Right Moves" and "Rocky III" also premiere on the network. As for major mini-series, CBS has none in the wings. 


Well, there you have it, the com­plete TV preview for the upcoming fall season. Some shows look very promising, and some others look promising to be cancelled within a few weeks. \l'e shall see. 
I 

Tuesday, September 17, 1985-page 8
Sports Briefs 

The SMC basketball team wm hold a meeting 
tomon-ow at 4:30p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility for anyone who is interested in trying out for the team. · The Observer
The ND volleyball team wm be playing tonight at 7 p.m. at Bowling Green.· The Obseroer 
NVA captains meetings begin today with 16-inch The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting softball at 4:30p.m., co-ree softball at 4:45p.m. and men's interhall tonight at 6:30p.m. on the boathouse dock. ·The Obseroer soccer at 5 p.m. All meetings will be in the football auditorium in the ACC. -The Obseroer 
The ND Rowing Club will be meeting tomon-ow at 
Tony Furjanic, inside linebacker for the Notre Dame 7:30p.m. in room 123 of Nieuwland Hall. Both Novice and veteran football team, will be the guest on "Speaking ofSports" when it airs rowers should attend and bring proofofinsurance and checkbooks. ­tonight at 10 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. Listeners may ask questions or The Observer make comments by calling host Chuck Freeby at 239-6400. · The 
see BRIEFS, page 9 
ObsenJer 

Yarema 
continuedfrom page 12 
"We're in for a noisy crowd ... a lot of enthusiasm," he said. "The only way we can take the fans out of the game is to put points on the board" early and grab a quick lead. 
That may not be easy. Despite their loss to Michigan, the Fighting Irish are formidable foes. 
"They have some outstanding • players," Perles said. "They're going to play hard," especially since it is the last year in Coach Gerry Faust's contract and he's rumored to be coaching on borrowed time. 
The Obserwr Notre Dame oftke. located on the ·thin.l floor of laFonune Student Cenu:r, an:epts dassified adverti~in~ from 9 a.m. umil -1 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obserl'er Saint Mary·s offi<:e. lm:ated on the third floor of Haggar College Center. a<.·cepts dassifieds from 12: .~0 p.m. until :\ p.m.. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for ncxt·day dassitkds is .~ p.m. All classifieds must be prepa1d. either in person or by mail. Charge i., I 0 cents per five:· charac·
Classifieds 
ters r da ·. 
THE SAGA CONTINUES ... Andrea: In·

RECLINER-EXCELLENT CONDITION-need MSU tix $$call John at 1845 
cest os Best! Wick: Two out of three ain't 5435 bad... Cora: A rock and an island.. Pam:

___N_O_T_IC_Es___.l 1....._----:-w_A_N_TE_D____, PERSONALS 
HELP ME· NEED 1·2 STUD. OR GA TIX 
Desperado .. Core: Any luck? TWO FOR MSU CAll BIG TOM 1670SELL AIRLINE TICKET for MALE DOWN AND THREE TO GO'!

TYPING AVAILABLE HAVEARMV
Chicago-Edmonton 24 September287-4082 Part-time HELP t or 2 hrs. wknds. AM or 11.40pm AIR CANADA. What $offers? 
Mary Heilmann: In a battle of wits you are

PM. Noce famoly with physically disabled YOU'RE GOING TO DIE someday, but
Peter 239-7820(day) 277-1118(nite) OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. unarmed. Stay tuned as3North exacts its
boy. Own trans. 259-0622 or 255-5821. right now I need 2 MSU GA·s. If you can 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 revenge...slowly.
TYPING CALL CHAtS 234-8tl7 help, caH Rob at 288·4760. 
78 CUTLASS BROUGHAM, loaded. 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
~eed ride to Dayton any weekend. Call good condition. 239-7013 days; 616-699­HEY MURPHSKV YOU FOOL, Trix are

EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 Maria4174. I NEED 1 USC GA/STU TICKET. WILL
7513 nights, ask for Bruce. 
ODIN IS COMING !!II for kids! signed THE REAL MURPHSKY 
TRADE MSU GNI $$$.CALL ALAN 1419 Wordproceaaing MSU FACULTY BRAT NEEDS 4 GA'S 
The entire city of Pique, Ohio is coming HAPPY BIRTHDAY
Call Dolores 277-6045 TO MICHIGAN STATE GAME TO I need 4 tlcketa for ND-USC. Call Mark out to see NO play Michigan State. They MARY
SETILE FAMILY FEUD. WIU. PAY at 251-88110.
TICKETS 

are willing to trade in their whole collec­QUEEN OF THE PH WORD, ANDGOOD $$. CALL ELIZABETH )(4570. 
tion of Slim Whitman albums to buy tick· WE'RE NOT TALKING SHAMPOO. ASK
typing • caH andr•, 283-4011 • you Wanted, 2 Mich State Tix' Call Kathy,eiS. Please help them. It's not often these HER WHICH ONE GETS HARD FIRST,
h-! Domino's Pizza has openings for pan 3690 I need 2 and/or 4 GA·s for Michogan State people get out of Ohio. THE RIGHT OR LEFT. SHE ALSO HAS A 
time delivery peraons. Must be at least18 as soon as possible. Catt Mike at 1806 Gall Amy at 239-5303 or 272·9519. TALENTED MOUTH. IF YOU GET TO
years okt, own car, and have valid in­Need one MICH. ST. STUDENT TICKET. 
ATIENTION!!ATIENTION!1 AROUND 

KNOW HER S~E"ll GROWL FOR YOU THE CORNEA CLUB OAGANIZA· 
surance. Hourly wage plua commission. JOE 2361 
FOR SALE, 1 USC TICKET AND 1 ARMY AND IF YOU KNOW HER WELL MAYBE TIONAL MEETING 5:00PM NEW OA· 
Apply in person at 816 Portage Ave. or 

TICKET. BEST OFFER 284·4432 THANKYOU ST. JUDE SHE'LL SHOW YOU HER SPACESHIP LEANS AM. LA FORTUNE All 
1835 South Bend Ave. WILL TRADE 2 MSU GA TIX FOR USC 
IMITATION VERY EROTIC! LOVE GA ONLY! CALL4035INTERESTED INVITED TO A TIENDI 

I NEED USC GA's Have cash & home To whoever stole my sports section Wed­RJHBGO
BOYS GYMNASTICS INSTRUCTOR GA's for trade: Call DAVE 1712 nesday at Csvanaugh, May your favorite 
NEEDED AT SOUTH BEND YMCA FOR OLD GIRLFRIEND WANTS TO GO TO baseball team languish in last place for
THURSDAY 3:30 TO 4:30 P.M. CON· MSU GAME· NEED 1 TICKET· TRADE the rest of your life. B~ the way, the last
TACT MIKE SMORIN AT 287-1861 OR OR $$$ CALL289-419t UNCLE SAM WANTS YOU!II penon who stole my sports section was a 
ALEXANDER THE GREAT, PETER

288-5459. To Give Up Some Army G.A.'a Chicago Cubs fan, and you know what TCHAIKOVSKY, WILLA CATHER, ST­
Need two MSU tickets. Can trade U.S.C. Be AH You Can Be happened to them .... Repent before it is 
AELAED OF RIEVAULX AND WALT

WANTED:UPPERCLASSMEN TO or Army tickets or money. Call John at
LOST/FOUND 
WHITMAN WERE. IF YOU AAE TOO,And Call Sammy at 2077 or 2078 too late.

BABYSIT 3MTH OLD INFANT IN MY 1126. •
CONTAC't GAYS a LESBIANS AT(We oHer cash, experience, and travel op­HOME.KNOLLWOOD AREA. . 15-20 ND/SMC, P.O. 80X 114, NOTRE

portunities.) Electrolysis Dermatologist approved
HAS/WEEK. CALL FOR INTERVIEW: HELP! DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S
DAME, IN 48558 FOR CONFIDENTIALGrad.Kree N.Y. Sterilized, latest equip­

277·5450. FOR LSU GAME CALL MIKE 2079
INFORMATION, ORGANIZATIONAL

ment,atudent rates.ladies only. Day-eve. ".. · Losi.ii~d;~i~; ;;,ii~ii~ A~~~ ~atch. 291-9613 MEETING SOON. 
BADL V NEED 3 GA'S FOR THE USClost Sat. night(the 7th) at either Campus JOBS JOBS JOBS JOBS PART-TIME. I DESPERATELY NEED MANY MSU GAME CAll MIKE 2079 SEEKING LOVE-Wanted: A bipolar diaor·
view, St.Louos St.. or 0-6. It was a very ON CAMPUS NEED PHONE CALLERS TICKETS CAll MIKE 1476 AMNESTY INTERTIONAL ORGANIZA· special gift, PLEASE HELP ME OUT! TO CALL SMC ALUMNAE FOR TIONAL MEETING Tonight 7:30 pm 
der woman to be an insufficient mother to Reward offered. please call Jim at 3649 FUNDRAISING SEE Ed's children so ht1 can be the buffer fat·
CAMPAIGN. HELP I need 1,2, or 3 GA for Michigan St. CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS EV­FED UP! SELLING GA'S FOR Allher.
(4 16 Monissey) THANKS!!! MARTHA HEWITI IN ROOM 303, HCC. Cell Mike 1454. REYONE INVITED HOME GAMES CALL BOB. DAVE,
NEED CLERICAL HELP. TOO•! LOST: BENNETION RUGBY SHIRT. I'M ITS Ind.. frosh met God and Man at Yale with a noblegrOid in MIKE, OR STEVE AT 3401.
PLEASE. DESPERATE! MY Looking for SMC I on 
Group (10 or more people) wanted for a righteous van. Jom Foley
Blue and White. laundry tag with no. BIRTHDAY ON THE 2111 ·SELL ME 6 Daytona beach in April. Tall. Blonde. Pat PLEASE, PLEASE. PLEASE SELL ME10177 and two small staons on front. If fund raoSing. All supploes provoded. Very MICH. ST. G.A.'S AND YOU'Ll. BE 213 Stanford YOUR TICKETS: 2 seta of 2 GA'a Callfound please call Rick at 272-8588. · few hours required. Call 319-363-7132. What ever happened to BOFA?
INVITED TO THE PARTY!! PLEASE Kevin w. at4103!!! 
CALL ANNE 284-5048 ATIENTION VOTE TRICIA FLOOD SMC FOUND FOUND F_gUND: A p81r of cool D~erately need 4 Michigan State & 4 we hope you guys can work it out, but if
FROSH COUNCIL SEPT 18 FOR SALE 2 MICH ST GA'S CALL TIM
not please don't stay together just for the

I NEED TIXS FOR MICH ST &
:a:~;'~~~:i~ne~~~~ ~~~~7~roes P~n..~l~t~~s.. ~..~-~-~~-~-~-~ .............. . 44380R4258
sake of tiJe newt.

PURDUE.272-6306 The Ray and Pete saga is back' Ray has a . ........... . Two ARMY G.A.s desperately needed ! Concerned Dining HaH Observers
ten pound box of what? Pete, don·t tell me SoCal SENIOR needs two USC bx lorREWARDIIII' LOST TIGER'S EVE and----Will pay bog$$$ andUSCTixJOHN 3691 p.s. we could have more friend• if we
2 MICH. ST. GA'S FOR SALE. BEST OF­you are going to study thos year. 
MOM and DAD! Andy 2109 
GOLD BEADED BRACELET' OF GREAT ... .. . ............ . . .. · .............. · · wanted to-we just don't want to.
FER. PETER 277·B285,AFTER 6 PM. SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO MEIIII . .IF 
REWARD • Free Trip to Daytona plus We are holding your pet puppyROBFEST ROBFEST ROBFEST ROB­FOUND.PLEASECAL.LSTEPHANIEAT ..... 2 STU. FTBL TIC BOOKLETS. BEST OF· Commission Money. WANTED Or­
Fan SALE ­
hostage.Sell us your MSU tix and we·H1327. THANKSII K FER. CRAIG 3380 OR BETH 284-5200 ganized group or individual to promote the FEST Is it happening? 
return him intact. It sounds cruel, but 1 Spring Break Trip to Daytona. 11 you are we're desperate. Call 3659 and ask forlost • leather belt on Stepan Courts on ,, HELP! NEED MICH. ST. TICKETS BAD; interested in our reward. call 1·800.453-morales is a bum and owes us 
Friday night. Please call1534 .........,_.....,.............. money...his friends Eric or Mike. 
CALL JOHN 1601 9074 immediately' Or write DESIGNE,RS 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 OF TRAVEL, N. 48 W 13334 W. Hampton 

LOST: A GOLD CHAIN ON THURSDAY, through the U.S. government? Get the ll PAT AT 3380 FOR FRESH SQUID
PLEASE HELP!!! I NEED 4 MSU G.A. s Ave.. Menomonee Falls, WI 53051. 
SEPTEMBER 12. GREAT SENTIMEN· facts today' Call 1·312·742-1142, Ext. AND ZUCCHINI. $$$Need 2 MSU GAs $$$Larry X1177
283-1940 TAL VALUE PLEASE CALL PAT AT 4364 7316. 
ANOTHER PERSONAL LIKE THAT AND IF YOU KNOW WHERE IT IS. Desperately seeking 2 GA s for the ARMY THE WRATH OF GOD WILL STRIKE JOLLY JOHN LAGORIC>-SO. YOU I need 1 Michigan State student ticket. COMPUTER FOR SALE COMMODORE game (Oct.19). Wilting to pay big bucks THE WHOLE HERD DOWN 'DIDN'T HAVE TIME TO TAKE OVER A Will trade for Southern Cal. student ticket, LOST on Greenfoeld 9/11. pr. of mar/grey or will buy. can Stacy 1370. '
64K---keyboard. disk drive,printer Price WHOLE SECTION,' EH? HA!I THE PTA
Call Trina4231 
rnong shoes with my keys insode! Can't af­Negotiable-····-call Meg at 2764. ATIENTION Pre-meds,Pre-dents.Pre­WISHES TO REMIND YOU THAT YOU ford the hne, if found please call 1040 DESPERATELY NEED 1 MICHIGAN ANYTHING!! LAST CHANCE to jOin the WERE REMOVED FROM THE PRES· I badly need G.A. ·s for all home games. -Thanks STATE TICKET. MICHELLE 284-4288. Pre-Professional Society is by midnight Call Marty at1050.
FOR SALE: AKAI HX·A3X TAPE DECK TIGIOUS POSITION OF DRUM CAP· W/DBX ALMOST NEW. $120 OR BEST TAINPRIOR TO BEING APPOINTED TO
TONIGHT, 17 September'!! Membership OFFER CALL GEORGE AT 1554 THE QUASI-PRESTIGIOUS POSITION
LOST: Man·s brown rosary, posaibly in or NEED 3 USC OR 4 MISS. GAS FOR fee is a minomal $2.00, and for that you will HELP! Need 2 GAs & 2 student tix for ,_,. CCE on Friday Sept 13. Please call ·········· .................................................. . receive membership card and FREE OF ROLLING TVMP PLAYER!!! ARMY game. Call Jutie3196 
CUTE IRISH PRIESTS WILL PAY ANY a Bob at 233-2784. PRICE! CALL MARY 284-5442 ADMISSION to all club activities. See one
For Sale Stereo stand, new. $75 negotoable. call Mark at 2450 or 239-5503 Thank You SCOTIIE This one·s for Vern 
of the oHicers below by midnight tonight to I NEED 6 GAS & 2 STUD. nx FOR 
P.S. You still owe us break1ast Deb, Holt,

NEED 3 GA TIX TO ANY HOME GAME be part of the fun!!!!!!! Tony Bevilacqua MICH. ST., PLEASE HELP ME!! I'LL BE Mic, Bre 
CALL STEPH 3534 President 809 Flenner 1492 Rob Molnar KILLED IF I DON.T PULL THROUGH!! MATI,STEVE,&DAN: We hear the turt at Voce Pres. 602 Grace 1684 Susan Saker CAll PAT AT 3423. 
FOR RENT 
ATIENTION NO & SMC Women Moke

U of M is SO soft-is that true?? Thanks SO Need 5 USC GA's. Pay top dolar. Call Secretary 342 P.W. 2736 Mark DeBofs 19'! Be sure to drop by 150
MUCH. We love you!! Beast,Gina,&the Jody 239-7389 or 272-5289. Genovese Treasurer 349 Alumni 3515 SISTER FROM MEMPHIS RIDING UP field hockey team FOR OLE MISS GAME... THIS IS HER
Alumni to give him a birthday kiss You'H student efficiency $125.and utilities near I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY FRESHMEN SCHMUCKS IN ROOMS be glad you did!' FIRST NOTRE DAME HOME GAME... N.D.2558505:2594943 YO! NO.BUTT BILL! Happy 21st. Do you GA'S OR 4 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT 20t, 336, 30t, 358, 448, 426 11!1 SHE'S 18... AND SHE'S READY. WILL 
think Ph illy will be big enough for the three 1733 OR 1757 BEWARE OF ODIN DO ANYTHING FOR STUDENT TICKET. Furnished House Close to Campus • 6 of us? If you get lonely there, you can get Phil & Tom: Doyoulivenextdoor? What­EVEN A G.A. WOULD MAKE HER bdrm, 2 baths Call277-3461 Dan to come Sleep w/ you! Since you I need Mich. St. tix caH Stan 2341 Need two MSU tickets. can trade U.S.C. syourpreference? Boyfriend? HAPPY. CAU3457 AND ASK FOR HER. 
wont remember tonite, we·M stay sober to or Army lockets or money. Call John at SICK BIG BROTHER. LUXURY TOWNHOUSE av&~lable to tell you what happena.okay? WE LOVE NEED 7 MSU TIX. 284-4048 1126 share with one or two roommates. YOU BABY!! Happy b'day' love. The ADOPT ANNIE 4 FRESHMEN COUNCIL NEED Mich. State or Army GA's. Call Dan preferlbly female. VERY REASONABLE. Wonder Bins Stock 272-6298 or 239-71 eo
2 MSU TICKETS You got 'em. I need 'em. ATTN. N.D. WOMEN! PAT MURPHY, VOTEANNEBUCHTOMORROW Call 277·2364 
WiH pay $. Cell Mike at 3347. STU or GA. MIKE MACCLENNAN, JIM KLEMENS, ATIENTION SMC FRESHMEN: 11 you AND FRANK HUEMMEA ARE READY need mich. state student tix. wil trade 
SEEKING FEMALE ROOMMATE AT want to have a great year, vote MEGAN HELP!!MV FAMILY IS BEING HELD BY FOR YOU! AAE YOU UP TO THE CHAL· TO ANNIE-Good luck tomorrow' love purdue,army, miss.• & tau call jeff 232· NOTRE DAME APTS. CLOSE TO O'CONNELL for FRESHMAN CLASS FORMER WEST POINT MAN.! NEED AS LENO£? your campaign manager 4578, alter midnight CAMPUS, INEXPENSIVE. CALL Mic­COUNCIL September 18, 1985 MANY ARMY TICKETS AS POS­
HELE AT 283-3710. SIBLE.IF YOU HAVE ARMY GA'S CALL RACHEL MENDLESON, THE QUEEN ATIN N~ FIELD HOCKEY FAN CLUB HAVE2MSU·CALL TOM3180 
SMC FRESHMEN;ON 9/18/85 VOTE 1254 AND FREE MY FAMILY! OF CHEESE SHELLS, SIDEWALK We couldnt have lost so well w/out you. 2 FMS NEED 3RD $100 MOfl UTIL233-FOR AllYSON SALZMAN NOT ET· SPILLS, AND COLOR BY NUMBERS IS Thanks for the noose. See you Wed at 4 on NEED 1 STUDENT MSU TICKET 277· 7641 HANOL. need 2·3 tix for mich. at. call Pat 3779 BACK! DON'T MISS HER! the turf!(Like that Matt?) 4548 
rx•;;. :<,;~ . ~~,-.~~~ . ~~..... . ~>a< ...~ ,.. -~~ . .. . «•!<>.»:·o:+.!<~~~~~-~=-::;~~:0:· ·:•;· -~~ 
!t~ti, ~, __ IDQe 1JrtsQ ~arb ens ~ 
i ~J~~,-Basement of Lafortune:Enter thfough door near Crowley j
I ·~ ~ 
~ J' ~--;;.-"' Discount for weekend flowers ordered in advance ~ ~ ~,---Hours I 
M.~~.:_ ORDER NOWI CALL 283-4242 Mon-Sat12:30-5:30 I 
{t.t~ ''· ·'~ ,~~:xmc~~XWK ~ ,, ~~ . ~·c:. ,. -~ ~ ·, . ··:>IIR~-~'XIC<·~~:c:J 

The Observer 
Tuesday, September 17, 1985-page 9 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 8 
The NVA golfscramble tournament was 
played Sunday. The team of Mike Schmit,JeffJoliet, Chris Kleva and 
Tim Healy won with a six-under-par 65. Three teams tied for second 
place. -The Obseroer 
In putt-putt golf, it took a Sl}dden-death playoff to determine the winner Sunday night. The team of Lou Martine and Austin Henry edged Tim Riordan and Mike Shields for the title after both teams shot 57 for the night. -The Obsen•er 
Apep rally is plannedfor Friday at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. Featured speakers will be Head Coach Gerry Faust, defensive line coach Rick Lantz and defensive lineman Greg Din· gens. -The Observer 
Interhall officials are neededfor football and 
soccer. For more information, contact the NVA office in the ACC. ­
The Ohseroer 


FALL! 
Is vour skin ready? Summer has taKen it's toll. Extrcamcs of tem­peratures, hi~h humidity and Stress caus~ de­hydration, C011grstion ~nd the loss of your skir1's natural r3dian(C. 
You o~c it to \'OUT$Cl f to rl"'lax and luxuriate whil" p.:~mpcring your skin. SornC" !'a)', "it's like an hour ;~.nd a half in heaven. 
Call (21!J) 2"""-0195 for your appointment now. 
The MorganBank 
Come to our informational meeting••• 

New coach leads ND tennis team 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's new women's ten­
nis coach, Michelle Gelfman, seems 
to be fitting in very well on the 
Notre Dame campus. The young 
coach has got her team off to a good 
start as it begins a very challenging 
fall season. 
The energetic Gelfman already has an impressive list ofaccomplish­ments to her name, though she has been coaching for only seven years. Her career record as a head coach stands at 226-79. 
An excellent player herself, Gelfman attended Northeast Mis­souri State University, where she played four years of varsity tennis. After graduation, she played on the Penn Circuit, as she began work on her masters degree at Indiana Uni­versity. She continued to play as a professional during the summer for a total of eight years after becoming a head coach. 
The coaching career of the 31­year-old started at Valpraiso Univer­sity, where she coached the men's and women's teams for three years. Two of the three years there, her team went to the National Cham­pionships and finished in the top 12 of the then small college section of NCAA Division I. 
After taking a year off because of an illness in her family, the spirited coach moved on to Beloit College, where she turned the program 
around and finished first and second 
in the division in her two years. 
Finally, she went to Western Il­linois University and rebuilt the program. She guided the men's team to a third-place finish in the Division I finals and gave the women's team a strongfoundation on which to build. 
Gelfman works to get the most out of her players but believes strongly that academics should never be sacrificed because oftennis time. Therefore, her practices are in­tense and difficult, but not lengthy. 
A great emphasis is placed on the value of every workout by the new head coach. The best players are pitted against each other in practice under game conditions so, hope­fully, they will be prepared for whatever comes tbeir way in actual matches. On some teams, this strong level of competiveness in practice might cause problems but Gelfman said she feels that there will be no bruised egos on the Irish squad be­cause the players get along so well. 
"I try to make the practices short but hard," she explains. "The actual matches are much easier if I make the practices as challenging as pos­sible. Even though tennis is an in­dividual sport, I treat the team as a whole. We practice together and we train together. They are a closely knit group and they all root for each other." 
Gelfman said she tries to correct the technical defeciencies that have gone unnoticed before. The Irish 
Talk to Morgan 

about a Career in Banking 
The Audt.t-Plus 
Training Program for financial 
and other managers 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, one of the world's leading money-center banks, provides challenging and rewarding career opportunities for college graduates with majors or concentrations in accounting, finance, economics, or business. We invite you to talk with us and find out about our Audit-Plus Program. 
Tuesday Alumni Room September 24, 1985 
6:00-8:00P.M. 

coach tries to refine the games ofher 
team members and to make them 
whole players. 

Gelfman also is aware of the fact 
that beside being a coach, she also is 
a role model for her team. She said 
she is careful of her attitudes and 
mannerisms on and offthe court and 
l

believes that her behavior should be 
beyond reproach. j
"I stress the importance of the j 
girls conducting themselves well at 
all times," she said. "I hope they will 
j

carry what they learn in tennis ­
competiveness, discipline, fair play ­
into later life." 

The enthusiastic coach is confi­
l

dent that the Irish can do well on the 
Division I level. She does not expect 
~ 

as many wins this year as there have 
l ~ ~ ~ been in the past for the Irish because 
~ 

they will be meeting more good 
teams. 

Despite the fact that the team 
provides only two scholarships, 
which are split among all of the 
players, Gelfman said she feels that 
the academic quality of Notre Dame 
can attract top players. The coach 
said she hopes to rebuild the 
program and have the Irish in the 
top 1 5 in the nation within the next 
three years. 

DePaul is the next stop for the 
Notre Dame women's tennis team. 
Gelfman said she will use the 
matches today in Chicago as a war­
mup for later in the week. when the 
Irish will be facing several tough 
teams. 

Crew team to begin Sept. 28 
TOMYOON 
Club Corner 

• ROWING CLUB: The Notre Dame Rowing Club will begin ilS fall season of regattas ~th ilS first race on September 28 at Des Moines, Iowa. The regatta will be sponsored by 'the Des Moines Rowing Club and will involve mostly club teams. 
Last year when Notre Dame en­tered the race, the Irish came away with one of their boats getting the fastest time. If they can repeat this feat, the participants will be awarded a silver cup. 
During the fall season, the meets consist of three-to three-and-a-half­mile races in which each boat races against the clock. In the meelS, the club uses four men's boats and one women's boat. Each boat has eight rowers and one coxswain. 
After their regatta in Des Moines, 
the Irish will journey north of the 
United States border to compete in a 
regatta in Petersburough, Canada on 
October 5. Notre Dame is the only 
United States team entered in that 
race. 

"This year is our largest men's team ever," said Chris Nye, the crew club's coach. "In fact, it is three times larger than before. We have a lot ofgood people on the team, and, with eight returning varsity men, the novice men who are now on the team are really pushing the others to become better. 
"This year our attitude has some­what changed in that this year we want to row to win. I am real excited about this year because with John Younger making the National team last year, hopefully the other good rowers will put forth the dedication to make the National team." 
• CLUB SCORES: When the Notre Dame Water Polo team traveled to the University of Michigan last weekend, it came away with an ex­citing overtime win. Steve Coffey scored the winning goal, which made the final score I 7-16. The club's next meet is in Lousiville in two weeks. 



,, 
\. 
. ' '
' The Observer Tuesday, September 17, 1985 -page 10
' 
Punter 
continuedfrom page 12 
terflies, but he earned high marks for his performance. 
"His punting certainly was a 

\ bright spot for our team," says Mal Moore, the Irish assistant head coach who works with the special teams. "It was mighty impressive. As
l 
long as he performs, he will have the 

l 1 \ 
job." 
But Moore was not the only one to bestow praise on the walk-on, who does not receive a scholarship for playing football. 

'\ "I was pretty impressed," says \ Sorensen's twin brother Dave. "He \ looked really good. I was very proud\ of him. I knew he would start some­\ day. He was determined to excel. It 
meant a lot to him."

\ ' 
Dave Sorensen attends the Uni­versity of Minnesota. The twins say they are very close. In fact, Dan says 

~ 
Feds rest 

1
\ \ drug case 1 ~ vs.Strong 
' 
Associated Press 
\ 
\ I PITfSBURGH -The government yesterday rested its case against 
l 
~ 
Curtis Strong, a Philadelphia caterer charged with dealing cocaine to major league baseball players, after . dropping two of the 16 counts against him. \ U.S. attorney J. Alan johnson said 
\ ~':-two counts were dropped be­cause ofa lack oftestimony concern­ing those charges. johnson called seven current or former major 
; 

\ leaguers as witnesses during the prosecution's presentation of its case. 
Defense attorney Adam 0. Renfroe Jr. said that Pittsburgh Pirates Manager Chuck Tanner, former Pirates team captain Willie Stargell and · St. Louis Cardinals pitcher joaquin Andujar would be the first witnesses called today when the defense opens its case. 
Tanner, who has said he was un­aware of the allegedly widespread use of cocaine on his team several years ago, will be the leadoffwitness, Renfroe said. 
In another courtroom on the same floor, jury selection began yes­terday in the federal trial of Robert "Rav" McCue, 38, of Pittsburgh, former controller at the Easter Seal Society ofAllegheny County. McCue also is accused of dealing drugs to major league players. 
Strong, 39, is accused ofdistribut­ing cocaine to players on 14 dates that the Pirates played home games from 1980 to 198.4. The seven cur­rent or former players testified that they purchased the drug from Strong in several National League cities, although Strong is on trial only for those offenses alleged to have occurred in Pittsburgh. 
Soccer 
continuedfrom page 12 
According to Akers, the Belles showed improvement at the contest in Bloomington. 
"We're moving the ball much bet· ter, and we seem to be getting stronger," Akers said. "We saw a definite improvement in our defense, but we still have a long way to go." 
The Belles travel to Kalamazoo, Mich., tomorrow to face the Kalamazoo College women's soccer team in a game scheduled for 4:30 p.m. 

Akers commented on the Belles' ) chances to win the game. 
"Kalamazoo is an aggressive, fast team to play, and it's going to take our best effort." he said. 


SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSiTY SCHOOL OF LAW 
Professor Regis W. Campfield, BBA, Notre Dame; LL.B., University of Virginia; Chairman of the Notre Dame Estate Planning Institute, will be on campus 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17 
from 7 to 9 p.m. in Room 208 of O'Shaughnessy Hall to talk with students about admission and financial assis­tance. All interested students are welcome to meet with 



AnENTION SENIORS!!! 
Registration for Senior Informal in Chicago continues tonight and tomorrow Sept. 17 &18 at Lafortune Info Desk 6-8 pm. $3 Registration fee. 
mbtEniglyts oftltt <lrastlt 
Men's Hair styling at Its finest 
ti-.. \-minutes from campus 
,~~ ~. Welcome Back Students! 

STUDENT SPECIAL 
$5 Haircut only 
277-1691 
Haircut, Shampoo 

$850
272-0312 
Blowdrv 

'offer ()nly applies to male patrons 
Hn: lues, Wed: 8:30-6:30 6C533 Teti'OCe lane Thur, Frt: 1:30-&:30 AerO.. from Marin'• Sat:8~2:30 
St.Rd.23 CIOiedMon. 

Students & Faculty 
he does not like to wear the football clothing he is issued, so he gives it all to his twin. 
Sorensen says he plays best when 

Dan Sorensen 

members ofhis family are watching. 
"I want to please my mom and dad most, and I want to leave the field knowing I have contributed," says the Irish punter. "I hope my family will make it to a game this season." 
Dave Sorensen says he will be at the Nov. 2 Navy game, although the whole family will watch every game on television. 
When Sorensen is not out on the football field, he follows his favorite baseball team, the Minnesota Twins. 
"I love baseball," he says. "I must have over 500,000 baseball cards. I used to advertise in sports magazines to trade and buy them." 
Not just an athlete, Sorensen is a member of the Dean's Honor List as an accounting major in the College ofBusiness. 
Despite all the work and frustra­tion he's been through, Sorensen in­sists he would do it all over again in a minute. 
"I never really thought about quit­ting because.! felt so fortunate just to be out there playing for Notre Dame." 
Whoever said dreams don't come true? Certainly not those two fresh­men from Dillon who slept in their jerseys. 
• 
Nosignup fee. 

• 
Nomonthly service fee. 

• 
Nominimum usage ... pay only for what you use. 


SAVE 
UP TO 
40% 
ON YOUR LONG 
DISTANCE PHONE CALLS 
~ 
~~~c 
~~ 
SAVERLINE 
CO:kPO:k.ATIOH TM Jo-e &ta:a.c:c tilfc":a.c:c 

• Stan saving today by caJJin 
SAVSERLINE 
at 

1-800-7 42-0528 
or dial direct 
1-812-232-2496 
Mondayrhrough 
Friday Bam 
to 5pm 

Is2P.40 Sale 
All the top 40 on sale now at Track's only 
/ 5"to 699 single albums or cassette includes REM, Sting Dire Straits, Billy Joel &m re 


I 
•I I 
I I I I I I I
3000 IN STOCK 
I 
I I I I I I I I I 
II 
Another satisfied customer 
-
DISCOUNT RECORDS & TAPES 
• 
Imports 
Track's has tOO's . of Imports in stock and will.be glad to special order what you need from our catalogue 

I YOU CAN WALKTO TRACKS 
I At the comer of Edison Rd & St. Rd. 23 
I 
I 
I 
I lOto 9 daily 
I noon to 6 Sunday 
I I I

I INDIANA'S RNEST DISCOUNT RECORD STORE I 
-----------------------------~ 
--~ 
Just across &om the King's Cellar 

------. 
I  
I  
1631 E. Edison  I  
South Bend  I  
I  
I  
I  


a 


Tuesday, September 17, 1985 -page 11 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
IJ5reN 1/P, MISTE:f< NtrWa<.K 
f/?f5... I WIINT ONE Fl/tL. 
HOf/f( Of fRIMf -71ME 
TWO? OKI/'Y, MilK€ IWN'r C/J'Ief</K£.•.()(( 7H£' ITTHK~~-WANr CIIT 1/NCJ 111€ l f0(/1{ / 
U/WYff< PI€ 
li\ \
i]L 

Zeto Kevin Walsh 
9•17 © 1985 Universal Press 
"Oh, what a cute little Siamese. ... Is he friendly?" 



ACROSS 1 Alphabet run 4 Fla. city 9 Barbed spear 
13 -monster 14 Clever 
maneuver 15 Humdinger 16 Heb. month 17 Skull and­19 Having 
savoir·faire 21 Sea robbers 22 Actor Dullea 23 Basque apparel 24 Put off 
discussion 26 Turf 27 Electric unit 31 Regrets 32 Conquer 33 Punishing rod 34 Pension 
letters 35 Graduated scale 37 On this side: pref. © 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 38-and All Rights Reserved feathered 40 Sea eagle 6 From-Z 
Monday's Solution 

41 Bums, for one 7 Spoke 42 Church slurringlyofficial 8 Race of gods 43 Numbered way: 9 Smug-acting 
abbr. person 44 Chairs 10 Relative 45 Facets 11 Run away 
47 Obscene art, 12 Ado for short 13 Hood's weapon 
• 48 Trailing -18 Beer maker 51 Bridal caps 20 For shame! 54 Pirates' flag 23 Hats 56 Pianist Peter 24 Tupperian 57 Incite 25 Of the ear 58 Cream 26 Polite address 59 Flourished 28 Pirates 60 Soaks flax 29 Prufrock's 61 Actress Taylor creator 62 Inquire 30 Pauses 
3~ Unite 43 Mend a shoe 50 Fruit decay 

DOWN 33 Bog 44 The sun 51 Ballet move 1 Verdi opera 35 Truth 46 Ger. engraver 52 Travel by 2 Famous pirate 36 Anger 47 Thick soup oxcart 3 Monopolies 39 Effects 48 Partly open 53 Mama pig 4 Happen 41 Rubber· 49 Dressing 55 Martini 5 Ringlet yielding tree gown ingredient 


Campus 

•12:00 
P.M.-Kellogg Seminar, "Social Pacts, Structural Reform, and Stabilization of Democracy", Evelyn Huber Stephans, Univer­sity of California, Irvine, Decio Hall 131, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute for Interna­tional Studies, Brown Bag Lunch 

•3:30 
P.M. Lecture, "The New Entrepreneurs: Today's Unique Opportunities and Challenges", Paula Nelson, Best Selling Financial Author, Hayes-Healy Auditorium, 


' Sponsored by College of Business -6:30 P.M. -Company Presentation, Finance and Controllership at General Mills, Steve Walker, General Mills, Morris Inn Alumni Room, Sponsored by Career and Placement Office, Open to all Finance and Ac­countancy Seniors 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame Southern Fried Chicken 
BeefPaprikaski Stir Fry Tofu and Chinese Vegetables Tuna Muffin with Cheese 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
6:30P.M.  16  MASH  
22  Three's Company  
7:00P.M.  16  The A-Team  
22  CBS  Tuesday  Night  
"Sunset Umousine"  
28  Who's the Boss?  
7:30P.M.  28  Three's A Crowd  
8:00P.M.  16  Bob Hope Buys NBC  
28  Our Family Honor  
34  Nova: "Baby Talk"  
8:30P.M.  46  Blackwood Brothers  
9:00P.M.  16  Remington Steele  
22  West S7th  
34  My Heart Your Heart  
46  lesea Alive  

!O:OOP.M. 
Movie: !0:30P.M. 
11:00 P.M. 
11:30 P.M. 
12:30A.M. l:OOA.M. 2:00A.M. 

. 
•7:00 
P.M. and 9:00P.M.-Social Concerns Film, "Silkwood", Engineering Auditorium 

•7:30 
P.M. · Tuesday Night Film Series, "Lawrence ofArabia", AnnenbergA!lditorium 

•7:30 
P.M. -General Meeting, SOLA, Center for Social Concerns Lounge, Meeting open to all interested 

•8:00 
P.M. Theology Department 


Lecture, "Catholicity and Catholicism", Rev. Avery Dulles, S.J., Catholic University of America, Center for Continuing Education Auditorium, Sponsored by Department of 
Theology 
Saint Mary's Grilled Pork Chops Spaghetti with Meat Sauce Spaghetti with Marinara Sauce Cheese SoufDe 
I 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Soundstage: The Roaches 
46 Dwight Thompson 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Magnum/McCloud 
28 ABC Nt"ws Nightline 
28 Eye on Hollywood 
34 Film DuJour: "His Girl Friday" 

46 16  Praise the Lord Late Night with man  David  utter­ 
16 22  All in the family Nightwatch  

46 Independent Network News 
•

• Social Concerns Film Series 
•

• 
-presents-•

• •
• 
•

• 
• SILKWOOD •• •
•
•
• STARRING •
•

•
• Meryl Streep, Kurt Russell and Cher •
•

• 
Tonight and Tuesday, Sept. 16 and 17• Engineering Aud. 7:00and 9:30, $1.00 • 
Student Activities University ofNotre Dame 
CLUB PRESIDENTS'MEETING 
A MANDA TORY meeting for all club presidents' will be held TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17from 7-9pm in the Library Auditorium 
Attendance is required to be eligible for Student Government funding . 
Ifpresideni cannot atttend please have a club officer present 
Help Prevent Birth Defects ""Support the 
~ ~!f~t~KQtQ~~~ 

~ 
J 
\ ' 
I ... 
·-~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

' 
·' 
Tuesday, September 17, 1985-page 12
Seorts 

Irish drop out of top twenty; Auburn retains top ranking 

Associated Press 

Auburn and Oklahoma remained first and second yesterday in The As­sociated Press college football poll, while Southern California moved up to third place and Michigan ousted Notre Dame from the Top Twenty. 
Auburn celebrated its first week as the No. 1 team by defeating Sout­hern Mississippi, 29-18, Saturday. The Tigers received 23 of 60 first­place votes and 1,1 3 7 of a possible 
1,200  points  from  a  nationwide  
panel  of  sports  writers  and  
sportscasters.  
Oklahoma,  which  hasn't  played  
yet,  also  received  23  first-place  

votes but only 1,125 points. The Sooners open Sept. 28 at Minnesota. 
Southern Cal did not play over the weekend, but the Trojans moved from fifth place to third with six first­place votes and 1,010 points. Florida, which had been third, slipped to 1 1 th place after blowing a 28-7 lead and settling for a 28-28 tie with Rutgers. 
Iowa opened its season by crush­ing Drake, 58-0, and jumped from fifth to fourth with five first-place tangs received the remaining three votes and 998 points. Southern Met­first-place votes and 913 points. hodist had the week offand climbed Florida State, also idle, rose from from sixth to fifth place. The Mus-seventh to sixth with 850 points. 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college college football teams in The Associated Preas poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, thiS season's recorda and total points. Points based on 20.19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Auburn (23) 2-o-o 1,137 2. Oklahoma (23) o-o-o 1,125 3. Southern Cal (6) 1-D-0 1,010 4. Iowa (5) 1-Q-0 998 5. So. Methodist (3) 1..()-0 913 6. Florida State 2-Q-0 850 7. Ohio State 1-o-o 761 8. Oklahoma State 2-o-o 697 
9. LSU 1-D-0 682 10. Penn State 2-o-o 610 11, Florida 1..()-1 538 12 UCLA 1-Q-1 487 13. Bngham Young 2-1-0 485 14. Arkansas 1-o-o 473 15, South Carolina 2..()-0 376 16. Alabama 2-o-o 360 17. Maryland 1-1-o 310 18. Nebraska Q-1-Q 207 
19. Michigan 1-Q-0 127 
20. IUioos 1-1-o 93 

Ohio State climbed from ninth to seventh with 761 points by shading Pitt 10-7. Oklahoma State struggled to beat North Texas State 10-9 but held onto eighth place with 697 points. 
Louisiana State defeated North Carolina, 23-13, and shot from 12th place to ninth with 682 points, and Penn State rounded out the Top Ten, rising from l 1 th to 1Oth with 61 0 points after downing Temple, 27-25. 
The Second Ten consisted of Florida, UCLA, Brigham Young, Arkansas, South Carolina. Alabama, Maryland, Nebraska, Michigan and Illinois. 
Last week, it was Penn State, LSU, Notre Dame, Arkansas, South Carolina, BYll, Maryland, Nebraska. Illinois and Alabama. 
Michigan defeated Notre Dame 20-1 2 and cracked the Top Twenty for the first time since the sixth of last season's 16 polls. 
Dream comes true for walk-on ND punter Dan Sorensen 
ByJOE MURPHY here as a freshman, I was a punter. John I didn't know if 1 ever would "I thought football was my worst was so close Sorensen wasn't even Sports Writer Here I was rooming with my com­get to wear this jersey again." game, but it's like anything else. You sure if he would be starting against petition. Sorenson, from Long Lake, Minn., have to work at it. Progress was Michigan. As it turned out, he got the "Basically, I was an outcast. "Dan continued punting; played hockey, baseball and football slow," says the punter. nod, even after missing five days of Nobody knew my name. I wasn't stopped. We've been through at Orono High School, but was un­After riding the bench for two practice with a pulled groin muscle. even in the main lockerroom," says everything together, from the first decided about where to attend col­seasons, Sorensenwas ready to show Sorensen vividly remembers what 
Notre Dame punter Dan Sorensen, day all the way up until now. We've lege. how much progress he had made as it was like before that first game. who walked onto the football team told each other our dreams, our "My sister and her boyfriend came a punter after the graduation of last "I wasn't as nervous before the his freshman year. fears, just about everything from over and said they had decided I year's punter, Mike Viracola. game as I thought I would be," he 
Sorensen, now a junior, played in start to finish." should go to Notre Dame," Sorensen "This summer I ran four miles a says. 'The other guys kept me loose. his first game last Saturday against Both were thrilled just to make says. "It sounded like a good idea. I day, worked a full-time job and even It was excitingas the bus drove up to Michigan, punting five times for a the team as freshmen. was going to come here and play went to summer school. I punted, the stadium and I saw all the people 42-yard average. "We were at a big disadvantage," hockey, and then I found out they. ran, lifted, had really no social life. I either cheering or booing us. It was 
"John Carney said from day one I Sorensen recalls. "We would stay up had dropped their hockey team. I would have kicked myself if I didn't great." would punt here," says Sorensen. at night. I remember how we had a good football season my senior become the starting punter because Once the game was underway, Carney, also a walk-on and now the couldn't believe we were here. year, so I decided to try out in the I hadn't worked at it. I would have Sorensen concentrated on the task 
Notre Dame placekicker, and Soren­Once we went to Notre Dame foot­fall." 
been upset if I had come back here at hand. He noted it was the first sen were roommates in Dillon Hall ball night at (Mishawaka) Marian Sorensen, who had been a hockey and been beaten out." time in a long time he had the but-their freshman year. High School and got to wear our jer­goalkeeper and still plays on the Dil­The main competition for the 
"I guess you couldsay we are best seys. When we got back to Dillon, lon team, did not even begin punting starting position came from Hal Von see PUNTER, page 10 friends," Carney says. "When I came we both slept in our jerseys. I told until his junior year ofhigh school. Wyl and Vince Phelan, and the battle 
Spartans get bad news: St. Mary's 
,#>, •• 
~···.

Yarema will miss game 
falls to IU
-",
·~·.~.. 

Associated Press ~"*
"We will work both (McAllister . 
in 2nd loss 
and Holba) in the position and 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -Already decide late in the week who among facing a rare night game at Notre those two will be the starter." Dame on Saturday, Michigan State Yarema hit on 1 1 of 21 passes 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE was handed another major obstacle Saturday for 87 yards in Michigan Sports Writer 
yesterday with news of quarterback State's 1 2-3 victory over Arizona Dave Yarema's broken throwing State in the season opener. In 1983,' The Saint Mary's soccer team hand. dropped its second game of the
he suffered a shoulder injury in the Spartan officials said Yarema's season by a score of 2-0 to the In­
season's third game and missed the 
hand will be in a cast for two weeks, rest ofthe year. diana University Women's Soccer and Coach George Perles said he McAllister is a 6-foot-3, 186-Club Saturday at Bloomington. should be back by the Iowa game Saint Mary's coachJohn Akers said 
pounder from Pompano Beach, Fla. Oct. 5, the Big Ten opener. Holba is 6-6 and 203 pounds, from the Belles played aggressively but Two untested freshmen, Bobby Lansing. Both were red-shirted as were not able to take advantage of McAllister and Tom Holba, will take freshmen, leaving them with four the opportunities they had to score junior Yarema's spot in practice this years ofeligibility. goals. week, with a decision later on which Meanwhile, Perles said yesterday "We played well, but we missed a one will start. couple of opportunities to score,"
he doesn't have any special tactics to Nick Vista. a spokesman for Mic­he said. "We had as many shots on
handle the night game and Notre higan State, said a routine X-ray of goal as they did, which is an indica­
Dame's noisy fans. Yarema's hand showed he has a "It doesn't change our plans at tion that we were competing with IU. We were not dominated by
"right thumb avulsion fracture," in all," Perles said, referring to the 7:46 which a strained ligament pulled the EDT kickoff ( 6:46 Notre Dame time) them." bone loose. Akers said he was particularly
which was moved from afternoon Vista said Yarema, who played the pleased with the performance of in­
for television. He is not even bor­whole game Saturday in the Spar­dividual team members at the game.
rowing a high school field to tans' victory over Arizona State, "Ann Ehret at haltbac k had a good
practice under the lights this week. didn't realize he'd broken his hand. game, and we had good support
Perles also knows how to keep his 
He reported pain yesterday and was squad from being intimidated by the from our bench," the coach said. X-rayed. "That helped us out a lot. They
home fans, surely still upset over "That's just the way the cards helped to maintain intensity out on
Notre Dame's loss Saturday to Mic­
were dealt," Perles said. "It's unfor­higan. Saint Mary's fullback Theresa Harrington and her soccer team the field." tunate for Dave and for the team, but 
lost their second game ofthe season Saturday to the women's club 
we simply have to go ahead without see Y AREMA,page 8 see SOCCER, page 10 
at Indiana. Andrea LaFreniere bas details on the game in her story
him. 
at right. 






