-~---------------------~---·-----------~-----­
Married students -pages 6,7 

VOL XIX, NO. 127 the indq)l"lllknt ~tudent Ill"\\ ~paper ~en ing rwtn d;rrlll" and ~ainl man··~ TIJES()AY, APRIL 16, 1985 

Council adds two requirements to curriculum 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE tially as a yearlong introductory explicit requirement in history. The graduate having never taken a his­the University rather than on how to SeniorStaffReporter course, but by a 17-22 vote-includ­original report ofthe University Cur­tory course." implement them," said Anne Marie ing votes against by most of the stu­riculum Committee "lamented" the The student amendment, which Finch, the Arts and Letters student 
Two more courses -one in history dent representatives the general "lack of historical perspec­was accepted by a voice vote, re· delegate. and one in fine arts or literature-will recommendation failed. tive and a sense of historical conti­quires one semester in social sci­Father Edward Malloy, associate soon be required all of Notre Dame • To allow engineering ROTC stu­nuity" among students, but did not ence, another in history. provost and chairman ofthe curricu­students if the Board ofTrustees ap­dents to substitute three credits of require history per se. During preliminary discussions !urn committee, said last night the 
proves action taken yesterday by the ROTC for one technical elective and Rather, the committee recom­this winter, the history department history department should have no Academic Council. to substitute three more ROTC mended that the present require­claimed the explicit requirement problem implementing the change. The council also decided in its credits for one of the two his­ment in history or social science be would too heavily burden the de· The change in history, like the closed meeting: tory/social science requirements. expanded from one semester to two. partment, but according to Lohman, other changes approved yesterday, 
• Not to change the timing of the • And to begin a comprehensive But student government Academic history representatives at the would go into effect in Fall 1986 (for present two-semester philosophy study to find out what is wrong with Commissioner Bruce Lohman meeting yesterday seemed to en­the Class of 1990) ifapproved by the requirement. The ad hoc University the counseling programs available argued yesterday that the recom­dorse the decision. Board ofTrustees in May. 
Curriculum Committee proposed to sophomores, juniors and seniors. mendation "does not necessarily "As a philosophical body, the Aca­The additional requirement in last spring that the philosophy The undergraduate delegation to solve the problem" because "it is demic Council decided it's more courses should be taken sequen-the Academic Council proposed the still possible for a student to important to decide on the goals of see CHANGES, page 3 
Hesburgh Shortage of computers 
urges curbing 


annoys SMC students
of arms race 

By MARY FRAN GISCH "The problem is a combination of News Staff funding and space for the proposal.By KURT MAURER 
We will be addressing the Board of 
News Staff 
There is a shortage of computers Regents with this proposal this available for student use at Saint Friday," he said. 
l'niversity President Theodore Mary's, according to students, fac­Mark Bambenek, a chemistry pro­Hesburgh urged students to prepare 

ulty members, and Director of Saint fessor, is on the Board of Regents. for their roles as future leaders by 
Mary's Computer Services John Bambenek said the Saint Mary's ad· seizing the initiative in curbing the 
Cook. ministrators are very responsive to nuclear arms race. 
"With so many students from dif­both faculty and students. "I have Speaking last night to a small but 
ferent fields using microcomputers, not ever known a time where they interested audience in the library 
it is getting increasingly difficult to didn't give a proposal !!Orne serious auditorium, Hesburgh said, "It is 
get any access time," said Anne Kar· consideration." your world that is going to be 
natz, a junior English literature and Saint Mary's has l 7 Zenith z-1 OOs, destroyed, not mine. I'm on the 
writing major. most of them located in Madaleva down side of life; your lives arc 
"I hear a lot of people complain­with a few in Cushwa-Leighton IJ. ahead. Are you going to let 
ing that there are not enough com­brary, and a couple in the Science

I
politicians wipe out your hope?" 

puters to accomodate all those that Hall. The Zeniths and the handful of Hcsburgh began the lecture by depend on them, especially around printers were purchased in Novem­
---· /. __ .· .·
JJ_,
commenting on three qualities that finals time," said Karnatz. ber 1983. The only two Macln­are essential for good leadership. A Mimi Boyle, a junior business toshes, located in the science 
true leader has a vision, a goal -~, major and computer science minor, building, were purchased in Septem­toward which he is heading and the echoed Karnatz's concerns. "I ber 1984. ability to rouse people to follow his definitely think there are not "Even though the two Macs were plan. Second, he must have integrity; enough micros at Saint Mary's. I use publically announced, they
never 

he must believe in his vision ifhe ex­the computer both for programs and quickly became the most popular pects others to believe in him. And papers and I usually have difficulty machines because they are easier to he must have the courage to take ac­getting access time." use," said Bambenek. "From the 
tion that is often unpopular, difficult, Cook admits to a shortage ofcom­time the building opens at seven un· and costly because he believes that puters. "We are now in the process til it closes, there is always someone it is the right thing to do. of seeking a corporate sponsor to on the Macs with usually a few buy micros for student use. That people waiting."
Hesburgh said the nuclear issue is implies it (the student need)." Another point Cook and the Com­the number one problem confront­"There are tentative plans to set puter Utilization Committee,ing people today. "We are not far up two student computer labs in chaired by Vice President and Deanfrom utter disaster. We are in aprox­LeMans. That would increase of Faculty William Hickey, are con·imate danger of destroying every­availability because it would be sidering is the type of micro to pur·

thing we hold dear. Not just our Donning unknown brands ofpanty hose on their heads, Five 
open more often than Madaleva or chase. "There is a desire to get more

homes; not just our loved ones. We Guys Who Wear Panty Hose On Their Heads ran to a hard-fought 
the Science building. But these are computers but the question besides

22-20 overtime win in the 14th annual Bookstore Basketball
arc in danger of destroying not just just a proposal at this point," said
this whole world but this whole Tournamentyesterday. The win put the team among thefinal 256 
Cook. see SHORTAGE, page 4

species, which means destroying all squads. those lives which have not yet begun." 
Hesburgh commented on the in­



HPC acts as a network of info and services
sanity in people that allows them to condone the buildup of nuclear ar­

Editor's Note: The following is ate responsibilities. The next pro-· CREST plan because I felt that the work of information and a support
senals that have a million times the part two ofa three-part series ex­posal completely severed them HPC involvement with govern­system for its members. "The power found in the Hiroshima bomb amining the different branches of from government activity. Al­ment activities was too heavy a speakers on the agenda present in­and to place their security in a com­student government. Today's in­though the second plan was load. HPC members found them­formation to the presidents, whoputerized system that is far from in­stallment focuses on the Hal{ ratified by both the senate and selves doing so much for student can then bring it back to the halls.

fallible. 

President's Council. government that they did less for Past speakers have discussed theHe cited a little known exercise in By BETH CORNWELL their dorms. I plan to follow alcohol policy and its implications,readiness that was conducted 
By the people,
News Staff (former HPC President) Chris the student store, and the bloodduring Carter's presidency to em­Tayback's policies of.keeping the drive. Charities come to us for helpphasize his point that the "use them The Hall President's Council · for the people? HPC as separate as possible." in reaching the students. We spon­or lose them" philosophy of deter­that enigmatic body: what role The HPC includes a chairman, sor lecture series for the members
Part two
rence leaves us totally at the mercy does it play in student government all 24 hall presidents, and an regarding subjects like leader­ofcomputers. 

now that the restructuring process HPC, it was later declared uncon­elected off-campus commissioner. ship," Howard said.
In the exercise, our system's has come and gone this year? stitutional by theJudicial Council. They meet every Tuesday night at The council also helps sponsorresponse time was tested against the The Committee to Restructure As it now stands, the HPC's role 6:30 to discuss problems encoun· dorm eventS. Howard hopes to getl 5 minute mark that experts esti­Student Government considered is relatively unchanged from past tered in the halls and solutions to a budget large enough to enable mate it would take for a Soviet first­dramatic changes in the duties of years, a situation which new HPC various situations. the HPC to subsidize student·strike to reach our silos. The the HPC. The first plan included chairman Kevin Howard finds The council has three essential the HPC taking over Student Sen-frustrating. "I supported the responsibilities. It acts as a net-see HPC, page 4 

see HESBURGH, page 4 
low who did not send out  times  the  world's  popula­ 
the letter.  tion. Further, at 22 cents per  
The logic fails here.  letter, that would generate  
Supposedly the text was  S 5 billion in postage fees.  
written  before  the  chain  So why do people send  
began,  yet  the  letter  out  these  c;:hain  letters?  
describes the fate of those  Some  say  it's fun  to  send  
who  dared  to  break  the  them  to  friends.  Maybe  
chain. Get it? This point may  these  people  have  some  
be overlooked by the casual  strange  desire  to  bother  
reader.  their friends.  
Some chain letters really  Others  send  copies  to  
threaten  the  recipients.  complete  strangers.  What  
They  guarantee  that  if  fun. This is similar to a prank  
copies  are  not sent  to  20  phone  call.  These  letters,  
friends in two or three days,  with their threats ofbad luck  
something terrible will hap­ Jfl(tflle.IIJEJI'111ot.T  and  promises  of  good  

The Observer 





In Brief 
The risks of cheerleading are the topic of a 
study by officials at the University of North Carolina. The investiga­tion comes on the heels of a january accident in which a junior var­sity cheerleader fell from the top of a pyramid stunt at a basketball game. -The Obseroer 
The South African governmentsaid yester­
day it will repeal laws prohibiting sex and marriage between whites and people ofother races -two pillars of the apartheid system aimed at preserving white racial purity. Anti-apartheid forces quickly called the announcement "window dressing" and declared the laws unimportant compared with the primary goal ofwinning the right to vote for South Africa's black majority -22 million people. Whites on both sides took the move seriously. The Conservative Party said the repeal would endanger "our national identity," and Louis Stofberg, spokesman for the far-right Herstigte Nasionale Party said, "The gov­ernment has let loose a tiger that it won't be able to control.'itP 
At least 10 people were killed in weekend 
battles in Sidon, Lebanon pitting Christians against Moslems and Palestinians, police said Sunday. Residents called it the most violent fighting since clashes began 1 7 days ago. In Tyre, also in south Lebanon, reporters said Israeli troops took more than 60 men away from the el-Ba.o;s Palestinian camp on the city's edge. Israeli military sources called it "routine activity," and said dozens were held for questioning but no weapons were found. AP 
Geraldine Ferraro said Sunday she was shocked by the failure ofltalian-Americans to condemn reports during her Dem­ocratic vice presidential campaign that linked her family to organ­ized crime. With a few exceptions, Ferraro said, Italian-American organizations and politicans remained mute while she fought against the reports, which involved her husband,John Zaccaro, and her par­ents. "The stories that filled the newspapers with innuendos about family connections to organized crime hurt more than just me and john," she told the National Organization of Italian-American Wo­men. "They hurt every individual in this room whose last name ends in a vowel." "The lack ofsolidarity in the Italian-American commu­nity shocked not only me," but the reporters who covered her cam­paign, said Ferraro, who was accepting an award as Italian-American Woman of the Year. -AP 
Of Interest 
r 
! r 
Tickets for the Tommy Shaw concert and 
Rock-Alike contest finals will be distributed free to students tonight and tomorrow night from 7 to 9. Notre Dame students may pick up their tickets Tuesday through Thursday in the LaFortune ballroom, 
r 
while Saint Mary's students should pick up theirs at Haggar Center at 
r 
SMC on Wednesday and Thursday only. A valid ND or SMC ID must
r 
be presented, and each student may present a maximum ofsix IDs.
r 
The events are scheduled at 7 p.m. on April 27 in the north dome of
r 
the ACC. Tickets are mandatory for admission. -The Obseroer 
r r r 
~ 
A senior class Mass will be held tonight at 5:15 in Sacred Heart Church. Seniors are requested to sit in the front of the church on the left-hand side. The Obseroer 
r 

Weather
r 
r 
r 
~ ~ 
Balmy summer breezes 
heading our way with sun and highs in the mid 
60s. Wind northwest I0-I 5 mph. Clear and cool tonight. Low around 40. The sun will come out tomorrow with highs in the mid 60s. -The Observer 
f 

The Observer 
The: O~rvrr (liSPS ~99 2--1000) is publlshc:d Monday through Friday and on home: football Saturdays. c:xc.,pt during c:xam and vacation pt:rlods. The: Obeervc:r Is publishc:d by th" stud.,ntsof the: llnivc:rsity of Notre: Dame: and Saint 
Mary's CoU"Il"· Subscriptions may be: purchaM:d for HO p<:r year ( S20 pt:r sc:· mc:stc:r) by writing The: O~rvrr, P.O. Box Q. Notr" Dam.,. Indiana 4M~6. 
1'br Oberrv.,.-Is a mc:mbrr of The: 
~d ~-All r"production 
rights arc: rc:sc:rvc:d. 
Today"s issue was produced by: 
Design Editor.............................. Paul Bruce 
Design Assistant... ...Jane Anne Riedford 
Layout Staff....................... Melis.a Warnke 
Typesetters .................... Tracy Bringardner 
Mary Ellen Harrington News Editor ........................... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor .............................. Mirriam Hill .\ports Copy Editor ................. Marty Burns VIewpoint Copy Editor......... Cindy Boyle Viewpointl.ayoul............ Melissa Warnke Features Copy Editor ............ Teresa Keefe Features l.ayout .............Catherine Coffey ND Day Editor........................ Aimee Storin SMC Day Editor............................. Ed Nolan Ad Design ..................Anne Marie Furleigh 
Lisa Dickinson 
Typist ...................................Gina Farabaugh Photographer .................... Nicholas Griffin 
Tuesday, April 16, 1985 -page 2 



There'll be no chain reaction from me -at least not yet 
I tempted fate last week. 
I threw away a chain letter. 
I read it this time, and like the others it threatened 
terrible things would happen to me ifI broke the chain. But I laughed in the face ofdanger and tossed promises offame and fortune into my trash basket. 
This year I received several chain letters from a vari­ety of places -one from Australia, another from New Jersey, and the latest from England. They all told me how the letters have travelled around the world and now, thankfully, have reached my mailbox. 
The latest letter opened with a friendly little state­ment. "With love all things are possible." Isn't that nice? The letter went on to tell the stories of others who received the letter. 
One man, according to the letter, ripped up his copy upon receiving it. Nine days later, he died. The hair on the back of my neck stood on end as I read that. The letter pleaded me to send 20 copies out to my friends in 96 hours, or I might meet the same fate as the poor fel­
pen. Some people may take this seriously and agonize over the prospect ofimpending doom. 
Other chain letters promise fantastic wealth. All you have to do is send a dollar to the person on the top ofan enclosed list and then send 20 copies ofthe letter out to friends, adding your name to the bottom of the list and removing the top name. Sooner or later, your name will float to the top of the list and you will receive several thousand dollars. That sounds almost too good to be true. 
The truth is, these types ofchain letters are too good; they are also illegal. According to the South Bend post office, it's a federal offense to send mail that in some way proposes a scheme that guarantees wealth through par­ticipation. 
So ifa chain letter promises a way to get rich through payments of any kind, it's illegal. If you stop and think about it, it becomes apparent that such a scheme soon runs into a lot of money. On a four-person list, when a name makes it to the top of the list that person will 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS 
"Are !/Oil UK to drit•r-'" "What~ ufi'lf' beer.~!" 
"Did you hat•e loo IIIIIch lo dri11k~" "/'111 JWI.1i'rf/y.f/tll'." 
"AI'!' yo11 i11 1111!/·'IWJll' lo riril'r'!" "/'t'l' IWI'I'I'.fi'/1 helll't:" 
"I thi11k .ffOt!'t•e had ali'II' lou tttall.tf." "Yrm kiriditl, I ca11 dt•it•e ll'ilh 111.11 1'!/I'N clo.~ed." 
"Yrm't•e had too 1111Wh to dn.ltk, let '''~' dn've." "Nobody drit•eN Ill.If em· b11111W." 
DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIR 
U.S. Department of Transportation ri!J 

AfterJOUF lastexam, whattoughquestions will youstillbefacing? 

t J 

W: don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood. the Holy Cross Fathers' One· Year Candidate Program provide> an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
Contact: 
Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocation Director 
Box 541 
Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 283-6385 

Peter C. Laches 
Photography Editor 

theoretically receive $160,000. If all those who sent a dollar to this lucky top name eventually make it to the top ofthe list, the total becomes staggering-$25 billion, $600 million in unreported income. 
This could be the ideal solution to the national debt. The government could send out a large-scale chain let­ter and wait for the money to start rolling in. 
If everyone who received a chain letter would send 20 copies in two days, over 25 billion copies would be sent in just 16 days. (It may take a little longer ifyou add a few days for postal ser­vice.) This is more than five 
fortune, can disturb anyone who takes the letter seriously. They really are not fun. 
Ofcourse, for most people, these letters are just junk mail that they toss into the garbage with the latest Sears credit offer. That's what I did last week. 
And ever since, my driver's license has been missing. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpointpage. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Obseroer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views of their authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Observer staff. 
The Observer Tuesday, Aprill6, 1985-page 3 
Reagan woos conservatives for aid plan support 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan is enlisting conservative leaders of Washington's national defense establishment to help sell Congress on his request for n 4 mil­lion for guerrillas battling Nicaragua's leftist government. 
Hoping to demonstrate bipartisan support for· the controversial plan, Reagan was meeting today with James Schlesinger, defense secretary in the Ford administration; Zbig­niew Brzezinski. national security adviser in the Carter White House; and Jeane Kirkpatrick, who served four years as Reagan's ambassador to the United Nations. 
White House deputy press secre­tary Larry Speakes described the three as supporters of Reagan's pro­posal. 
Henry A. Kissinger, secretary of state in the Nixon and Ford ad­ministrations, was sending Reagan a letter endorsing the initiative, Speakes said. 
The meeting, one day after Reagan returned to the White House from a I 0-day California vacation, is the president's first salvo in twin battles with Capitol Hill on Central America and a politically risky budget plan 
Changes 
continuedfrom page 1 
fine arts or literature was accepted 
by a voice vote, including un­
amimous approval from the five un­
dergraduate representatives. 
The proposal to require a 
yearlong course in philosophy, 
however, failed in part because 
some council members thought it 
would do more harm than good. 
Finch said the proposal would not 
have allowed a student to choose a 
second philosophy elective in his or 
her specfic area of interest. For in­
stance, she said, pre-med students 
would be less inclined to take Medi­
cal Ethics which is a popular second 
course among pre-med students. 
Pat Noonan, the student represen­
tative from business, said, he "fails to that would kill I 7 popular domestic programs and limit Social Security benefit increases. 
The budget plan is scheduled to come to the floor of the Senate on April 22; the Nicaraguan proposal will come up for a vote a day later. 
On both issues, the administration admits it lacks enough votes to win now, but says Reagan will make a major push to rally support. 
The White House also is expected to decide this week whether to change plans calling for Reagan to visit a cemetery next month to honor German soldiers killed in the "Battle ofthe Bulge" in I944. 
see what it is in the nature ofthe dis­cipline that requires an individual to take it in sequential semesters, unlike mathematics where the car­ryover is of a more integral impor­tance." 
Said Lohman: "Two semesters of an ·introductory course would stifle the enthusiasm." 
The ROTC proposal, which passed 31-13, turned out to be the most "emotionally charged" issue, Finch said. At the suggestion of Fa­ther David Burrell, the vote was by secret ballot. 
Noonan likes the decision. "Ifyou give a guy over 20 credits in a semes­ter, he's going to have very little time to do things other than study and ROTC," he said last night. "The core curriculum is what the Aca­demic Council standsfor, but there's a lot more to our education that's not in black and white, that's not part ofthe numbers." 

Notre Dame, he said, must stay committed to "providing these stu­dents the opportunity to participate in extra-curricular activities." 
Lohman disagrees. "Why are ROTC students unique? ROTC is a choice that students make for a future path, and students make those kinds of decisions in a number of ways," he said. "No one guaranteed that one path would be easier than another. And I don't think ROTC would like to sell themselves :1!' 'We are the easiest path.' " 
Finch said if Notre Dame's aca­demic standards are sacrificed for one extra-curricular activity-"and I view ROTC as extra-curricular" ­then students involved in other ac­tivities should get a break too. 
"But," Noonan added, "maybe the only way I can get through Notre 
SENIOR BAR BARTENDERS WANTED 
Be one of the few, the proud. You'll kick yourself later if you don't apply and ntiss the best tinte ofyour life. 
Pick up and return applications at Student Activities in LaFortune. 
DEADLINE: WednesdayAprill7 at 5 p.m. 
Faced with angry criticism from veterans and Jewish groups, the ad­ministration is considering whether to alter his itinerary, perhaps adding a "balancing event" such as a stop at a synagogue or Nazi concentration camp. 
Speakes said the administration is consulting with the West German government. 
"Don't know what we might do," Speakes said. "We are looking at it. Haven't made a decision yet ... We're looking at a lot ofthings, talking with the Germans." 
In addition to today's meeting with national security leaders, 
Dame-and to share in the same ex­periences you have -is through the 
U.S. military.'' 
Lohman indicated there was more to it than that. "For ROTC to sit down and say we won't budge doesn't show respect for the longstanding relationship between the U.S. military and Notre Dame." 
On the issue of counseling, gov­ernment professor Edward Goerner introduced a new motion calling on each college council to "reform the college's undergraduate counseling practices and those of its depart­mentsH next semester. 
Recommendations by the college councils are to come before the Aca­demic Council next spring. 
Goerner's proposal says each col­lege should thoroughly consider the problems of sophomores and "consider the possibility of includ­ing professors emeriti and senior un­dergraduate students in some role in the total program ofacademic coun­seling.'' 
The recommendation passed by a voice vote, as did an amendment to have the "Unversity's professional counseling service be extended to testing and guidance for students who are unsure about college/major intent." 
In other action yesterday: 
Kathleen Weigert, an assistant director of the Center for Social Concerns, proposed that the "faculty of each college...be respon­sible for determining that each stu­dent explores in a curricular way the implications of the Catholic social teaching." 
But the motion failed when Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president and chairman of the Aca­demic Council, described a scenario of a student walking up to receive a diploma and a dean stopping the proceedings because the student had not absorbed through the cur­riculum the nature ofCatholic social teaching. 
Reagan will deliver a speech tonight at a dinner of the Nicaraguan Refugee Fund, a group sympathetic to the president's aid plan. 
-Reagan has pledged that the money for the Nicaraguan rebels would not be used for arms for at least two months, provided that the Nicaraguan government agreed to peace talks. 
Although Nicaragua has rejected the proposal, the administration hopes Reagan's strategy will per­suade Congress to lift its hold on the n 4 million in the wake of revela­tions that the CIA had helped the rebels mine Nicaraguan harbors. 
An amendment to have the col­lege council study the problem, however, passed, 25-10. 
Finch, the student Arts and Letters representative, voted against the amendment. "The council put the problem off," she said. 
Lohman agreed. "Curricularly mandate? How are you going to do that? The point (behind the amend­ment) should already by under­stood. It was implicit in the PACE report." The three-year-old PACE report outlines the University's goals for the 1980s. 
Two other measures proposed by 
the University Curriculum Commit­
tee also failed. 
The curriculum committee had suggested that students be given un­til the end of the sophomore year to complete the two-semester mathe­matics requirement. But the math department disagreed and proposed an amendment saying that the two courses in the discipline should "normally be completed" with the freshman year.'' 
The amendment passed by a voice vote. 
The council also dropped, by a 14­25 margin, a proposal to give stu­dents until the end of the sophomore year to complete the two-semester natural science re­quirement. 
Council members against the pro­posal believed it was not needed, Lohman said. About half ofthe fresh­man class usually satisfies the foreign language and natural science requirements by the end ofthe year, and only about two percent do not begin their science courses by the end of the freshman year, according to statistics presented yesterday to the council. 
Noonan, the student representa­tive from business, said both the math and natural science proposals would have mistakenly placed the flexibility of the curriculum in the freshman year. 
Looking for Summer Excitement? Join the group going to 
Yellowstone Ranch School in Emigrant, Montana 
Exciting experience in horse handling, mountain survival, float trips, Yellowstone outings and many more outdoor activities. A REAL WESTERN ADVENTURE! 
For info write: or phone:
Yellowstone Ranch School Box 663 (406) 848-7570 Emigrant, Montana 59027 

It's never too late to become a bronze God or Goddess! 
Deepen that Spring Break tan. CaD us at 277-7026 
'MN-HAWA1fw 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 

The Observer Tuesday, April 16, 1985-page 4 
Hesburgh 
continued/rom page I 
exercise showed that by the time the president and the Pentagon were made aware ofa nuclear attack they would not have had sufficient time to coordinate a response. 
What can be done to arrest this in­sanity? For his part, Hesburgh has coordinated the efforts of religious and scientific leaders from both the East and West blocs-united to stop 
Shortage 
continuedfrom page I 
the funding involved, is what system 
to go with. Do we keep both the 
Zeniths and Macs or go with one or 
another? There is a lot yet to be 
decided." 
Cook does not want to promise 
any results by the fall. ''I'd like to say 
that there will be more computers 
by fall, but there is a lot to consider 
and some offices will also have to be 
moved, so it will take some time." 
HPC 
continuedfrom page I 
faculty mixers in the dorms. "This 
is the kind of thing in which the 
HPC should be getting involved. 
Who else would do it? Why would 
they?" Howaid asked. 
Furthermore, he pointed out that most ofthe new presidents ran on platforms ba-;ed on social reform. This, therefore, is an im­portant council topic. The HPC gives its members an opportunity to share their successes and fail­ures with each other, makingdorm improvements campuswide. 
Howard said, "In all areas -so­cial, political, and liturgical -the presidents find what has worked well in their own halls and bring these ideas to the council. Here we analyze it. We find out why things work and why they don't. Because this is a group of all new presi­dents, the council gives them a place to learn and share their learn­ing." 
Finally, the council still has some government responsibilities. The HPC chairman and three members hold Student Senate seats. The council receives and dis­cusses weekly senate reports. They are sometimes asked to ratify stu­dent government proposals. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
SOCIETY® CANCER. 
NOT 
KNOWING 
THE RISKS 
ISYOUR 
GREATEST RISK. 
Thanks to you ... it works ... for 
ALL 
OF US 
Unlt.d\Vay
• 
what Einstein called the "drifting toward unparalleled disaster." These leaders met ·in Vienna and prepared a statement against nu­clear arms proliferation that was translated into several languages and distributed in print all over the world, including the Soviet Union. 
Hesburgh encouraged students to convince today's leaders that a break from policies based on competition and superiority is vital because such goals cannot be achieved with nu­clear weapons. 
Bambenek is more optimistic about the hope for more computers next semester. "The College has made tremendous strides because three or four years ago there were no computers," he said. "Now the chemistry and physics departments have computers in the offices and there are some for student use. As we grow, we have more needs. The administration knows this." 
Some students have posted a peti­tion by the computers in the Science Hall. 
Men's Hair Styling at its finest (minutes from campus) 
Applications for 
Student Government ASSISTANT TREASURER available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune Must presently be a Sophomore Accounting Major 
If you have any questions call Eric at 239-7417 Applications due 
Mqnday, April 22,4:00 PM 
SMC COTHs majors Pre-pre-registration 
In the departmental office, 110 Morreau 8am-12pm, lpm-5pm 
.Juniors : Monday April ;.5 
Sophomores : Tuesday Aprfl16 
Freshmen : Wednesday Aprfl17 
······································~·········
iJOHN MARSHALL
• LAW SCHOOL 
• 
• 
e 1393 Peachtree St. NE, Atlanta, GA 30309' 

IF:!~~~~~~e:~rEA~~~~ns, 
: Day or Evening Classes
: 
• John Marshall Law School admits without regard • : to national or ethnic origin : 
: APPROVED FOR VETERANS : 
: Graduation from John Marshall meets the : • requirements for admission to the Bar • : Examination in Georgia and Indiana ONLY : : (404)872-3593 : 
~-·············································· 
Van Engen chosen as Institute director 
Speclal to The Observer 
John Van Engen, associate professor and acting chair­man of the department of history at Notre Dame, has been named director of the University's Medieval Insti­tute by Provost Timothy O'Meara, effective August 16. 
He succeeds Ralph Mcinerny, Grace professor of medieval studies and director of the Jacques Maritain Center. During Mcinerny's tenure, which began in 1978, a computerized catalog and index ofall the west­ern manuscripts in the Folsom Ambrosiana Microfilm and Photographic Collection were developed with fun-. ding from the Mellon Foundation and the National En­dowment for the Humanities. In the fall of 1981, the computer cataloguing and indexing of 8,000 drawings in the Mary Davis Collection of Ambrosiana Renais­sance Drawing was also begun, with the support of the Kress Foundation, and, more recently, an art exhibit se­lected from that collection traveled nationwide. In ad­dition, Mcinerny revived the institute's series "Publication in Medieval Studies" and increased the number ofgraduate students studying in the institute. 
Van Engen, a specialist in 12th century religious and intellectual history, received his bachelor ofarts de ree 
-~ ! 
c..'(;···· •
.. r,\.•·1· • 
~:'t;;;iM • 
._.-.-.:~, I 
~:~·~,~ 
_,,..... :: 
Littlec.~· prepares you for the real world. 

DRESSING FOR SUCCESS. 
Sure it's great to be in college and sit around and eat pizza, b-ut someday you're ~oing to need a job. But first you have to get the JOb. Which means first you have to get an interview. And once you get that, what are you going to wear to it? If you dress up too nicely, they're going to think, hey, look at his clothes, why does he need a job? And if you dress too sloppy, they'll think, hey, why should I hire someone who dresses like a bum? 
But just in case they do hire you, what are you going to wear to the job? I mean, you won't have money right away to buy new clothes. So maybe you can wear what you wore to the interview... the first day on ftle job. Then you'll have to give the suit back to the friend you borrowed itfrom. So ...what are you going to wear the second day? 
Maybe you should just stay in college for a while longer. At least there you can get 2 for 1 pizza at Little Caesars. {Tip: put it on your resume. In days like these, employers are look­ing for someone who knows how to get more out 
of a buck.) 
....... 
ltquor 
• 
""
Uflll 
~~~AR'!!o 
f 
~ 
........ i 

Corner of Elwood and Portage (4 minutes from Campus) 
From your local Unle Caesar'• manager -.lay Freet 
233-3200 
Give us a try-You won't regret it! ----• VALUAaiCOIItOM •---­
IIIIIII PillA!I 
I Buy any size original round p~ at regul~r price, get identical pizza 1 FREE with this coupon at partlClpatmg Little Caesars. Carry-out 
I 1
only. One coupon per customer. I Ellplres: 5/20/85 I 
I ci)ITJrrful@w!.ID.M·~ I
L---------------J 
from Calvin College, Grand Rapids Mich., in 1969 and his doctorate in history from the University of Califor­nia at Los Angeles in 1976. His thesis was on Rupert of Deutz, a Benedictine monk who died in 1129. 
Van Engen joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1977 and two years later was awarded an American Council of Learned Societies' fellowship for further study of his thesis subject. He was promoted to ao;sociate professor in 1983 and has been serving ao; acting chairman of the history department for the pao;t academic year. 
Notre Dame's Medieval Institute wao; founded in 1946 and contains more than 50,000 volumes and various collections of pamphlets, reprints and photographic materials. Its academic emphasis on the intellectual history of the Middle Ages is evident in its extensive holdings in medieval philosophy and theol­ogy and in its unrivaled collection of primary and sec­ondary materials in the area of medieval education. Its Folsom Ambrosiana Microfilm and Photographic Col­lection consists of microfilms, photographic prints, negatives and color slides of medieval and renaissance manuscripts, miniatures and drawings from Milan's fa­lllous Ambrosiana Library. 
Sun-Thurs llam -llpm 
fd-Sat llam -lam 
~i~~~_<>__i_ll___t___________________Th_es_d~_,A_p-ril-16-,1-98-5--pa-ge-5 
Get the most out of the best four years of life 
Have you stopped to breathe yet today? I mean, obviously you have breathed, but have you taken time to stop and hear yourself breathe? As the end of the second semester comes zooming in on us, we often forget to stop and let ourselves breathe. Today is the day to take the time to slow down, just for a 
Heidi Cemeka in the driver's seat 
minute and remember that "these are the best years of our lives." 
As the snow falls once again in April, we try to remind ourselv~s how much fun college and studying is. 
At this most hectic time of the year, I am thinking that I would rather have the mumps or chicken pox than be a college student. Well, if we look past the three tests, two papers and oral report we have due tomorrow and the paper and in-class writing assignment 
Why does Pettifer put so much stress on sex? 
Dear Editor: 
My lunch has been disturbed recently by our Freudian alumna, Ann Pettifer, or more ac­curately, disturbed by the genitalia protrud­ing from her otherwise enlightening columns. Way to go, Pettifer. Of your last five columns, sexual organs have made an appearance in all five. The seminal point ofher articles, you ask? Men, particularly Roman Catholic clergy, are not nice to women. The reason? An obsession with genitalia .... 
Whether it is Nathaniel Hawthorne's sexist treatment ofHester Prynne, the ritual practice offemale castration, the criminal failure ofthe Vatican to bow to pressure and allow women to become priests or to recognize the practice ofbirth control, Ann Pettifer likes to prick the collective conscience of all (women-hating?) men through her curious quasi-Christian­Freudian-Marxist goulash ofa Weltanshauung which embraces man's hatred of woman as a fait accompli. 
I would simply like to point out that when one chooses to see the world through a set ideology, interpretations, accurate or not, 
Doonesbury 
we have due Monday, we might see a glimmer of hope. Granted, this is one of the worst months of the best time of our lives, but just keep that in mind. 
Let us stop just one minute and back up a year. Where were we then? Freshmen? Sop­homores? Juniors or seniors in high school? Now, if we compare ourselves the us from a year ago to the us of now, are we different people? We should be. Think of all we have been exposed to in the last year. If we cannot stop to do that, then it is time to stop and hear ourselves breath. 
When we have taken time to do that, then we can try again to remember the past year. Did we go to classes to learn or just to bide our time in college? Did we go to classes? Right now, probably our last concern is how much we have learned this semester. Right now, we probably are only concerned with living through this semester. But if we think about it, what a waste college would be if all we carried away was a report card, hopefully a diploma, and a job at which we could not perform be­cause we never learned anything in college. 
Now, we can try projecting ourselves into the future. When we look back, exactly what Socrates said to Eurypides in philosophy may not matter, but the technique of arguing we learned in class is important. Exactly which president signed the Triple Entente is not im­portant, but how history affects the future and the fact that we did enter into diplomatic agreements with other countries at that time is important. So, 20 years from now, whether or not we made one more English literatUre class or skipped the last one will make no major impact on our life. 
Never again, though, will we have the op­portunity to learn with agroup ofpeers suffer­ing alongside us. In grade school, we just wanted to get to high school and in high school, we just wanted to get to college. But now college is here; this is it. What I am trying to emphasize is the importance of learning in classes. This is a novel idea I will admit. Usually, I forget that purpose and live to get through each class and each assignment. 
P.O.BoxQ 
spring to mind readily. Ifmen, as in Pettifer's world view, are savage, Neanderthal brutes who are only concerned with sexual organs, then it naturally follows that respected men of literature (Hawthorne) or members of the clergy (the phallic-culticJohn Paul II) repress women because of the fact that they are sexual troglodytes, the stuff of Pettiferian nightmare. 
I might ask why Pettifer feels that sexuality is the sole determining factor in human exis­tence. I find her narrow, ideological inter­pretations of world issues to be rather insulting. Perhaps Pettifer does not see this, or perhaps she will not read my letter because I am a man. Oh, Pettifer, I do not mean to repress women ... it was an accident ofbirth. 
I find it unfair to assume, as Pettifer does throughout her numerous columns, that men dislike women. To assume a predisposition in anyone is offensive. Come on, Pettifer, no one would accuse you ofpenis envy and expect to get away with it, so why do you assume things about men? Did Sigmund make you do it? 
In the future, Pettifer, I would ask you to please check your ideological predilections and all relevant genitalia at the door before you disturb my lunch again. My appetite suf­fers enough as it is. 
Daniel W. Casey Alumni Hall 
Care center owes much to campus community 
Dear Editor: 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community has recently received much deserved com­mendation for its generous support of the MS campaign. Surely there are few campus com­munities which can boast of such generosity. The list ofcharities supported by this commu­nity is a long one -the list is barely begun when one thinks ofits support ofUnited Way, of the Community Fund, of the remarkable numbers of hours given in volunteer work at different community agencies, of the Crop Walk and of the new efforts such as the Charity Ball for Ethiopia. All these, and many other endeavors, deserve and receive the help of this community. 
I would like to take the occasion of the first anniversary (April 16) of the Women's Care Center/Pregnancy Help Center to express our gratitude to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. Our center originated with the initiative of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life Group. Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have given us much assistance with our phone-a-thon and Gerry Faust has served as honorary chairman both years. Otto Hilbert of Moreau Seminary donated 
Garry Trudeau 
hundreds of hours to conduct the phone-a­thon, and Marty Flynn, Bill Ryder and Lauri Denn won the trips to Daytona donated by Fa­ther Hesburgh. These students raised the most money for the Women's Care Center. 
But hundreds of others have helped, too ­we would like to express our deep apprecia­tion to all those who phoned for us, to all those who folded and stuffed the letters we sent and to all those who have been so generous with their contributions. Through two phone-a-thons and two campus drives, students have now raised over S60,000 for the center, which constitutes the major portion of our budget. Students have also generously given of their time and talents to transform a rundown house into a beautiful and welcom­ing place through which we have been able to help over 100 women a month. 
We have held and cuddled and enjoyed the smiles of the babies -and smiles of their mot­hers, too -who now are alive because their mothers chose life! We would like to share with you the euphoria and satisfuction and wonder which we have experienced because of the generosity and hard work of this com­munity. Thank you! 
janetE. Smith Chairman ofthe Board Woman's Care Center 
Quote of the day 
"Always the dullness ofthe fool is the whetstone ofthe wits." 
-Shakespeare, As You LikeIt 


Editorial Board 
Editor·m·Chlef . Managmg Ed1tor News Ed1tor. News Ed1tor. Saint Mary·s Execut1ve Editor Sports Editor. Accent EditOr. Viewpoint Ed1tor . Photography Editor . Copy Chief. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5SP3 
The Observer is the independent newpaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a maJonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, 1S encouraged 
Sarah E. Hamilton Amy Stephan Keith Harrison Jr. Dan McCullough Theresa Guarino ... Jeff Blumb Mary Healy ... Joe Murphy Peter C. Laches . Frank L1p0 
When I do remember, however, I also re­member how quickly college is going, how little time I have left to learn and how much I have left to learn. Very often, we get so caught up in school work that we forget to take time to breathe and let aJI the new experiences sink in.. While I am definitely advocating studying for the learning experience of it, I also must advocate breaking for the learning and relax­ing experience of it. 
Without the breaks, the learning goes in one ear and out the other. In fuct, we learn as much from the relaxing as we do from the studying. We need to learn to get through col­lege and life, but we certainly cannot live without breathing. So, my advice to all ofus as we hang tight for the final excrutiating weeks of school is to learn to love learning and to remember to take time to breathe and slow our day down. 
Heidi Cerneka is a sophomore English writing and religious studies major at Saint Mary's andis a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Department Managers 
Busmess Manager. Dav1d Stephen ItCh Advert1smg Manager Anne Culligan Controller Bill Highducheck Systems Manager. Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. John A. Men nell 
Founded November 3,1966 

-
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Accent 
Married students: c 
Mary Ellen Harrington 
features staff writer 
M
arried. Student. To many ofus, students in terms ofattitudes and these two states are foreign to what we like to do." each other. When they do go out, the Hagans 
However, for some undergradu­do not hit parties or the bars like ates marriage is a way oflife, with other students, instead they occa­all of the responsibilities and joys sionally go to the movies. They do that are involved in the commit­take Lance out, treating him to little ment. shows and ice cream. Always fun for 
Two or three out ofevery 1,000 him is visiting Notre Dame and undergraduates are married accor­feeding the ducks on the lakes. A ding to the Registrar's records. All football game is promised him for of these students live off-campus, next year as he is one of the team's divided between the various apart­biggest little fans. ment complexes and houses. A Because most ofthe residents of small number lives in the University the University Village are graduate Village, where you must have students with families, there are children to reside, but the majority plenty ofother children in the 
~ 
of the residents in the Village are apartment complex for Lance to r ~ graduate students. The exact num­play with, and an abundance of 
ber ofundergraduates who have babysitters to choose from. r children is not known to the Uni­This semester his sitter is from r versity as they do not require this Egypt and last semester he learned a 
information from students. little Thai from his Thai sitter. Stacie 
' r 
Married couples have found for 
r 
the most part that their life can be 
r ,,
, .... ., more difficult than that of typical
r 
r -... undergraduates, but also more I used to find it hard ,•".. .. rewarding.
r .•... to study, now that 
Jim and Stacie Hagan are one
r ... such couple.Jim is a junior at Notre I'm settled down I ,,Dame while Stacie balances her time between part-time sophomore have a better reason classes at IUSB and their two-year­old son, Lance. lbey have found life as a couple, and especially as par­takes classes on Tuesdays and ents "in many ways a lot more diffi­Thursdays and has a lot of time with cult (than that ofother Lance. undergraduates), and in some ways But Jim, because ofhis class and not." work schedule, often does not 
come home until8:00 or 9:00, or 
According to Jim, ""!11ere are a lot even midnight. However he says, "It more responsibilities like babysit­helps to know where your priorities ting, and bills. We have to deal with lie, and so you can just put the a lot ofdetails that would be taken books away for a while." 
~ Above, Steve Cloud poses with Below, the Hagan family relaxes care ofby (other students') par­Because they have never lived on 
r ents." However, as Stacie adds, "In campus and consequently have
his son Travis as he talks about in their University Village 
r Photos by Greg Rashid many ways (being married) is a missed out on a lot oforientation
life as father, husband, and apartment.
r help. We are a lot more settled activities, there are some gaps in 
student.
r down, and work harder than we their student life. They aren't in­
r 
would." cluded in many activities that on­r 
The double role can be difficult campus undergraduates participate' to finance. Scolarships and grants in. They also miss out on much of
r 
take care of most ofJim's tuition, what is new on campus, including
r 
r but they have to find the money to new lingo and new concerns. r pay for Stacie's education as well as As a result ofliving offcampus r living expenses. Low rent at the Jim finds himself often uninformed r University Village helps out, along about registration dates and the r with various odd jobs that Jim like, and often has no one to fill him r holds. in on what is happening with other r Stacie does not work, finding undergraduates. 
motherhood more important than 
~ 
anything else, including being a However, there are compensa­student. "Last semester I tried night tions in being "different." They school but it didn't work out. lfI have been able to set their ~ ever felt that I couldn't do both, priorities. According to Stacie, being a parent would definitely "Goals that I set in high school are come first." gone, I have found out that my
r 
~ family is more important. Instead of r going into a career right away, I got r a family first and realized its impor­
Last semester I tried 
~ '' tance instead ofgetting a degree I r couldn't use." Another couple
night school but it 
that finds the dual role of parent 
~ 
, didn't work out. IfI and student rewarding are seniors Steve and Kathy Cloud. lney
r­·ever felt that I 
married last year and now reside in
r 
r couldn't do both, be­the Hickory Village apartments. Their eight-month-old son Travis
r 
ing a parent would 
is a joy in every respect, especially as he sleeps through most nights.
~ definitely come first.'' 
r Since Travis is so young, the Clouds r spend as much time at home as they r can. Steve says he enjoys playing r Jim considers himself more ofa with his son during the day. "It is 
student than a parent in many ways nice to stay home now, they grow and he is involved in many activities up so fast." including a seat on the new Student Steve is taking only 12 credits Senate as the off-campus represen­this semester, so he spends a great tative. deal of his time with Travis, coming 
Still, at times he feels and regrets home every afternoon while Kathy the separation from campus and spends more time on campus. undergraduate life. "We don't so­During the few hours a day both cialize a lot, partly because we don't Clouds are in class, Travis is have the time for a lot, but also in watched by the residents of Breen­part because people don't expect us Phillips, Kathy's former residence to. But we are the same as other hall. Both the rector and students 
...
------~ -~~--~-­
• 
Tuesday, April16, 1985 page 6 -page 7 


The NeaJ" Side Mark Weimholt 



While his parents are learning in their collegiate studies, Travis Cloud is learning to walk in his walk~?r. 
watch Travis, a situation that is both helpful for the young family and fun for the babysitters. 
Although neither Steve or Kathy 
has a full-time job because oftheir 
schedules and the young age of 
their son, the two geology majors 
work part-time for the geology 
department, "picking teeth out of 
rocks." Steve also works part-time 
in the ACC as an usher and they 
receive financial help for their 
education from their parents. 
Like other married students, this 
couple finds it easier in many ways 
to be married. According to Steve, 
"I used to find it hard to study, now 
that I'm settled down I have a better 
reason. I also enjoy the close com­
pany ofa wife." 
Although they are enjoying a somewhat unique situation among their friends and consider them­selves as being more like parents than students, the Clouds have maintained contact with all their old friends and roommates. Steve is still on the lacrosse team although he does not play as often as he used to. 
Kathy, because she is on campus and in her old dorm more than Steve is, has retained many ofher old friendships, and spends more time with her friends than Steve does. Many ofSteve's former roommates now have girlfriends, so the couples go out occasionally. Recently, Steve and Kathy enter­
''I used to complain as much as the next guy when I lived in Grace, but South Bend is a lot nicer town when you see it from the other side~' 
tained a large group of people at an 
outdoor barbeque. 
They claim that going out as a couple makes for an easier, more enjoyable evening. The couple does not participate in as many campus activities as they used to, but they do still attend many of Breen­Phillips' dances and functions. 
Travis comes to campus every day. He especially enjoys being taken for walks in his stroller and he n i.lly enjoys being around people. H ·is a very friendly and well-behaved child who doesn't mind strangers at all. "Travis is really a good baby, none of the girls in the dorm mind babysitting at all," claimed one Breen-Phillips resi­dent. 
His parents also take him to a park by their apartment where he loves to swing. He is just starting to walk and has a walker that he tears around the apartment in, soon he will be a little terror on two legs. He is also teething right now, so he has been a little more fussy than usual, but as Steve says, "I would much rather play with him than study." 
While there are both differences and similarities between offand on campus students' lives, marriage can add a completely diffent dimen· sion. "I used to complain as much as the next guy when I lived in Grace, but South Bend is a lot nicer town when you see it from the other side." 
lbe Clouds get along so well partly because of their compliment­ing personalities. Kathy is bubbly and outgoing, while Steve is rather quiet and introspective. The couple has no regrets about being married so early in life. Steve said, "I recom­mend that if two people are really in love, (marriage) can be very easy to incorporate into a student's life." 
New treatment for diabetes 
Associated Press 
BOSTON-By squirting less than a is still uncertain. However, some of tablespoon of cells into the body, the doctors involved in the research doctors hope they canat last achieve said they are optimistic that they can one of medicine's most important solve the difficulties and obtain, at and elusive goals: a way to prevent last, a means to prevent the blind­the devastating side effects of ness and other consequences of diabetes. 
diabetes. 
Experimental versions of these "There is no doubt that it will mini-transplants are already being eventually work," said Dr. Anthony performed in at least two medical P. monaco, chiefoforgan transplants 
centers, and other physicians across at New England Deaconess Hospital the country hope to try them soon. in Boston. "It's safe to say that initially, it will 
The idea is to replace the insulin­work in a certain number of cases, making cells in the pancreas that fail and it will work for a relatively short when people have severe diabetes. If time," he said. "But we will gradually the procedure works as well as doc­refine the technique of preparing tors hope, this tissue, called islet the islets and preventing their rejec­cells, will produce insulin naturally tion, and eventually it will work." inside the body. And it will provide the ideal, minute-by-minute control Doctors at his hospital hope to 
of blood sugar that is impossible perform the transplants within two with insulin injections. months. Since December, four have 
The technique works well in been done at Washington University animals with the disease. But more in St. Louis and two at the University refinements and experimentation of Colorado Health Sciences Center 
will be necessary before it can be in Denver. It's too soon, doctors used widely in people. said, to know whether these Just how long that work will take transplants succeeded. 
----~--------­
Tuesday, Apri116, 1985-page 8
Sports Briefs 
Second-round action begins today 
AnTostal slam dunk contestsignups will be 
Boontore Tournament Step8n8 Sweet William & 4 Other Guys ... over Chaotic Os­
held today from 3:59p.m. to 5:31 p.m. at the AnTostal office on the 
cillations26:15-Goggs & 4 Other Celibates v. Flankin' Idiots 

second floor ofLaFortune. Competition will be on Wednesday, April 
You Can Have Them Lengthened. over You Can't Be Pregnant, I. .. by 2 
Today'aGamM Boontoretl 
Step8n 1 4:00-Just Taint v. Private Club 
24, with dunking on either a l 0-or nine-foot rim.-Tbe Observer 
4:00 -The Uncoachables v. King Qnega & the 4:45 · Keith (Magic) Lomax & 4... v. 4 Normal Goggs & 4 Other Celibates over The 5 Guys Who Naugle& Gang Males & 1 With Stage Fright 
Use Stall3 by 14 4:45-Team Many Manoomes v. Couch Potatoes 5:30-Milk & the 4 Utters Squin Again v. FAQ II Step8n2
Major league baseball season predictions will be 
5:30-Tortbusters v. We Broke Parietals With Guys Booketore 10 Rousseau's Noble Savages over Fat by 19 
6:15 -Mustard Seed Conspiracy v. Mixed Com-4:00-Keenan Inmates v. 5 Stylemastera Who Will 4 Gringos & a Stump over Trisomy 21 & Some pany Ba At the Masters 
offered by a panel of self-proclaimed "experts" on "Speaking of 
Oth81' Misplaced Chromosomes by 7 
Sports" tonight at 9 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. listeners may give their 
Stepan2 4:45-Robots in Disguise v. The High Flying Pwer­Flankin' Idiots over We Beat a Girls· Team Last 
4:00-We Can't Play Basketball but. .. v. Weethy's hitters Yearby!! Warriors 5:30-Buttsweat & Tears v. Chicks Are Dumb 
picks by calling cohosts Chuck Freeby and Marty Burns at 239-6400. 
Step8n3
-The Observer 
4:45-Foley's Runnersv. Andy & the Hog Slabbers 6:15 -The Chimp & His B•g Bananas v. lncom­Nude Two over P.P. & the Nada by 9 pretics
5:30-Vacuum Effect v. Muddy Waters Frankie Says Chow Buthole over A Korean 6:15· 5Hoosiers in LeisureSuitsv. 4 Delinquents & Lyone11 Gentleman & the Cookies ... by t5 Prepare to Meet Your Maker over The Backward
Our Lawyer 6:15-One Jew & the4 Skinsv. Revenge Factor Step8n3 Lyona12 Sesinep by 13 
AnTostal mud volleyball winners must advance 
their names on the schedule posted outside the student government 
4:00 -That's Why They Call Us the Cruisera v. 6:15-The Squid Twins & 3 Bearded Clams v. The Stepan4 
The Union Carbide Burial Service over Team 5:30-Headly & Hog Heads v. Haynes Hackers Bohem•aby7 Hyper Active Creamers
offices on the second floor of LaFortune. Any team that fails to do so 
by today will forfeit its place in the tournament. New schedules will 
6:15-UTB v. The First Source Bank & the Travell­Women'a Bookatore Beareat Expresa over Bernard Goetz & 4 Guys 
Who Can't Shoot Either by 13
be posted tomon-ow. -Tbe Observer 
•ng All-Stars.. Lyona11 
Stepan4 4:00-Quixotic Quint v. Antimony Pentaflouride We're Worschle88 over The Audes by 3 4:45-Summary Judgement v. This is a Dictator­4:45-We Shave Points But Not Fbf Drugs v. Jam Stepan 5 905 Aa•ders over C.V.D. 2 by 14
ship Onlt! 5:30-4 Wh1te Engineers Whose Feet Smell Worse 5:30-Foul Trouble v. Larks Stepan& 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting 
tonight at 8 p.m. on the first floor of LaFortune. For more informa­
Gravity Is a Myth, the Earth Suck& II over Too Cool 
Than... v. Homeboys Lyona12 
to Move by 18 8tep8n5 Boontoretl 6:15. Carnivorous Buttflies v. The Hit Men 4:00-The Amateurs v. Nan & the Nerds 
tion, call Tim at 287-8264. -The Observer 
4:45 -The 'B' Team v. Cleo's Avengers & Then 
6:15 -Josephus & the Ethiopian Shimsham v. A Gynecologist, A Proctologist. .. over One TiUe
Some Flanner 5 5:30-Reuben Kincads v. LAGNAF IX'er & 4 ... by 18
The Notre Dame baseball team will play 
5 Guys That Wear Pantyhose On Their Heads over 
Step8n8 
5 Schizophrenics & Us, 22-20 The Dougherty Dudes over Descanes & the Evil 
host to Valparaiso today at 1:30 p.m. on Jake Kline Field. -Tbe 
6:15-905 Raiders v. Gravity is a Myth, the Earth 
Sucks II Ynterdlly'e R•ulta Slep8n7 St•pan 1 
Observer 
Demons by 5 

6:15 -Prepare to Meet Your Maker v. We're Badfinger -The Finale over 3 Studs, A Spud & a 
Worschless Woodby 12 see PAIRINGS, page 9 
The Obsen•er Notrt' Dame office. lot·atnl on tht· third floor of l.ahmune Student Ct'ntt'r. acct'pts classified ad\'erli~inj( from') a.m. until -1 p.m...\1onda) through friday. The Ohserr•er Saint Mary's offin·. hKatt·d on the third floor of llal(l(ar Collc~ote Ct'ntt'r, at-cepr~ dassifit·d~ from 12:.~0 p.m. until ~p.m .. Mon­day though friday Deadlint' for nt·xt-day das.ifinls is -~ p.m. All das~ifit·ds must he prepaid. either in person or h) mail. Char!(<" is 10 <:ents p<·r five charac­
Classifieds 
ters r da · 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8"7 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING Jac:fdeBogge 18-4-87113 
WOfiDPROCESSING • 277-8045. 
TYPING 277-8534 ah<lf 5:30 
Word Proceeamg and T)'Ping Assumes, Letters, Papers, Documents Call 234· 
2360 
One U.S. dollar Will feed two Ethiop1ans a day 
YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE! 
Attend the ND/SMC Charity Ball 
Saturday, Apnl 20 
9 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
Stepan Center • 
Tickets on aale in dorms and at La 
For1une record store. S6 s•ngle, $10 
couple All welcome 
Will do typ1ng -exper1enced, typ•st. Reasonable. Catl287·5162. 
TYPING· CALL ANDREA· 283-3880 
Seren~ty at your l1ng&n1ps!! New Alcholics Anonymoua meeting, Fridays at 7p.m.,3d tl.lnlirmary, Am. 316 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL IIIRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
IJIU UIDDU DU 
LOST MY CHANCE TO PLAY IN 1ST RND. OF BOOKSTORE BECAUSE OF KNEE INJURY CALL IF YOUR TEAM NEEDS, FOR ANY REASON, A FIFTH PLA YEA. TOM I 078 
COUEGIATE TYPING, lilY HOlliE. 277· 3085 
START YOUR CAREER NOW Earn money and work on For1une 500 Compan1e1' market1ng programs on campus. Part·t•me (flexible) hours each week. We giVe references. Call 1-800­243-6879 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: ONE PAIR OF ARGYLES AT BADIN LAUNDRY CALL 1858 TO IDEN­TIFY AND CLAIM 
DUE TO MY SPASTIC NATURE I HAVE MANAGED TO LOSE MY WINTER VEST IT IS BLUE WITH FLANNEL LINER AND CORDUROY COLLAR. IT ALSO HAS A GROUND ZERO BUTTON ATTACHED AND EVEN THOUGH GROUND ZERO NO LONGER EXISTS I STILL WOULD LIKE ITS RETURN DUE TO RELIGIOUS OBLIGATIONS. PLEASE RESPOND, THERE IS A REWARD IN THE FORM OF S&H GREEN STAMPS. CALL DAN AT 272· 5416. 
LOST: Lad•es gold wr•stwatch With a grey leather band somewhere between room 204 O'Shag and the South D1n1ng Hall Tuesday morn~ng. II found, please call Jackie at 3688 REWARD 
FOUND: BLACK GLACIER SUN· GLASSES IN ROOM 113 NSH AFTER DR. HAMBURG'S RUSSIAN HISTORY CLASSON WED APRIL3. CALL JIM AT 2522 OR STOP BY 336 HOWARD HALL FOUND: CORAL AND GOLD COLORED BRACELET IN 3N HOWARD. CALL JIM AT2522. 
LOST:GOLD WOMEN'S "ADVANCE" DIGITAL WATCH ON WED.APRIL 3 BE· TWEEN WALSH AND THE BUSINESS BUILDING. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 2116. 
FOUND: One, yes, one Kodak D1sc camera. Its the really laney 6000 model, so if you want i1 back contact John or Jeff at 4243. By the way, llound it at the Car· roll Hall formal at the Morris Park Country Club. P.S.· Th<lt'e are only two p1ctures used in the roll of film and I'm getting itchy to take photos of my leisurely pet Hermit Crab. Siggy, so call real soon' 
LOST: WEST'S BUSINESS LAW BOOK SECOND EDITION AT LUNCH 4/11 AT SOUTH DINING HALL FROM ON TOP OF THE CIGARETTE MACHINE. TO THE "SCUIIIBAG" WHO "BORROWED" lilY BOOK, PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE SPOT WHERE YOU "SWINDLED" IT. IF YOU, THE LOSER, HAS ANY CLASS, YOU WILL RETURN IT. lilY IS ON THE INSIDE OF THE BOOK IF YOU, THE LOW LIFE CAN READ. I HAVE A TEST ON THE 4/18. 
LOST: General B1o text was removed from the far nght s1de of main carrels on the 1Oth floor of the library Wed. evening. The return of this book rs extremely rmpor­tant as I have a test next week' Call3615 ASAP if found! 
LOST: MUSIC CALCULATOR ON 4/10 IN WASH. HALL OA HAYES/HEALY CALL MARA 4559 
LOST: MY BRACELET, FRIDAY AT STEPAN CENTER DURING THE JAZZ FEST. IF YOU FOUND IT, CALL LINDA AT 4215 
FOUND:cross pen with insignia in LaFOf1une little theater 4/12 call 239­5713 
LOST AT BEAUX-ARTS FRIDAY NIGHT -one set ol keys, Grace Hall key-ring -one set of keys, black leather key-ring -one red plastic necklace -one green comb all can be da1med at archrtecture off1ce 
LOST: To Whoever accidently took my J880 jacket with the Sprmgsteen pin on it !rom South Dining Hall on Sunday, I'd ap· pr8Ciate il you return it to 308 Lyons. No quest•ons asked Thanks. 
Lost navy blue pull-ov<lf wmdbreaker made by Jos.Bank.Lost on Saturday at the tenms couns.ll found please call Joe at 3498. 
FOUND : Grey SamsoOIIe suitcase found 1n N.Y.C on Bell Parkway during Easter Break. SUitcase contams doth1ng with "N.D. Baseball" on 11. For more INFO call Lost and Found at 239-5036. 
LOST: BLUE JEAN JACKET WITH IM· PORTANT KEYS IN POCKET IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 2850. LOST IN SOUTH DINING HALL SUNDAY ] 12 NOON. 
LOST:A pa1r ol brown-lramed prescnp­t•on glasses(not in case). Lost 4/12. II found please call Eltie-1258. 
Found: One pan of Italian brown leather gloves. To da•m call239-5162 
LOST: ONE PAIR OF ITALIAN LEATHER GLOVES. BROWN SIZE 9. REWARD. 
FOR RENT 
NEED AN APARTMENT Summer Townhouse avarlable for rent! Call 2275 lor 'nlormation. 
2 bedroom apanment lor summer rent.. dose tocampus(t/4 mile) call277·1256 
Two room efficiency, private entrance, utilities paid 288-0955. 
AVAILABLE FOA NEXT SCHOOL YEAA -FIVE BEDROOM HOUSE COM­PLETELY FURNISHED. WASHER AND DRYER AND GARAGE. CALL 234-9364 
WANTED 
I NEED GRAD. TIXI Please call Lisa al3544. 
Attention Juniors: Summer Internships Available for juniors Who live in the follow­ing areas: Dallas, Houston, Aust1n, Tx. Tucson and Phoenix, Arizona and South­ern California. Earn from $3000.00 to $7000.00 lor the summer. Sales experi­ence a delimte advantage. CaN (219) 287­4107 to set up an interview with Coast to Coast Information Systems. 
Hey I'm I.U. Bound Unl0f1unately I haven't any Wheels. Anyone heading lor the Little 500 next weekend? I will share the usual. Call Teresa SMC 5067. 
RIDE WANTED TO COLOIIIBUS, OHIO/OSU lor this weekend, 4/19-4/21. Call Norma at 2808 
FOR SALE 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142 ext. 7316. 
Be sman! Sell your class books before the rush. Mon.-Fri between 12 and 4. Save$ on paperbacks. Fri: 3-6; 50/ off used: 20/ off new. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 So Bend Ave. 233-2342 
FOR SALE' 76VW RABBIT CALL 1459 
6 UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE, NO­MEMORIAL AREA, EXCELLENT CON­DITION 233-9728 232-4528 
Two story, all modern, 3-4 bedroom, C/A, Alarm system, 1 & 1/2 bath, Marquette district. 287-9103 
Experience 'the lap of luxury' .Buy our couch!!Thls couch must be seen to be fully appreciated. Stop by 281 Dillon or call Joe or Mark at 1768 
USED STEREO 35 watts per channel amp, tuner, turntable, cabinet, 2 speakers, good sys­tem lor next year's quad. Call St~ve at 2534. 
IIIAXELL TAPES XLII 90mn $26/box of 12 PH 1596 or 124 Dillon 
TICKETS 
DESPERATELY NEED GRADUATION TICKETS -PARENTS AND FAMILY ARE COMING TO SEE THEIR LAST KID GET A DIPLOMA. PLEASE HELP THIS WILL BE THEIR LAST HONOR CON­SIDERING I HAVE NO JOB OR HONORS!! WILL MAKE DAD PAY YOU Ill 
Desperately need graduation :1ckets. Family coming lor M.A. graduation. Mother handicapped, so especially need main floor tickets but will take What I can get. Please calllinds at 239-6343 days, 259-8104 evenings. Will pay$. 
HEY SENIORS• NEED GRADUATION DESPAAATELY!!III WILL PAY HUGE BUCKS!! PLEASE CALL MARIA I SEAN­
4304. 
NEED 3 GRAD TIX WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! CALL SCOTT 4113 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS (3) REAUY BADLY • • PLEASE HELP. CALL IIIEL AT 283-3718. WILL EVEN PAY YOU FOR THEIIIII 
NEED 4 GRADUATION TIX. CALL KEVIN AT 287-82&2 BUT ONLY AFTER CAUING IIIEL FIRSTII 
NEED 2 GRAD TIX -Please call Mike at 2263 anytime 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOfl, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.lll., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
TALL, GOOD-LOOKING MALE WITH­OUT A MUSTACHE SEEKS GIRLFRIEND. MUST BE WELL· GROOMED, QUIET AND ALSO WITH­OUT A MUSTACHE. IF INTERESTED CALL NICK AT 1684. 
IT'S COMING ...... 
CHARITY BALL 
CHARITY BALL 
CHARITY BALL 
DON'T MISS THE EXCITEIIIENTIII 
LET'S NUKE STUDENT GOVERN­MENT Then we can start over again. 
LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS: The weekend you've all been waiting lor IS li· nally here. CAIIIPOUT THIS WEEKEND 4/20 TO 4/21. BE THERE. 
HEY, DID YOU HEAR TliE JOKE ABOUT STUDENT GOVERNIIIENT?I? 
Alders needed to IOWA STATE or the U. of IOWA on Apnl19-21 II you want to go call Jenny at SMC 5536 
IIIOONCHILDREN, a play about college students during the Viet Nam era, will be presented rn Washington Hall on April18, 19 and 20 at 8 p.m. WARNING: Language may be offensive to some. 
Moonchildren MOONCHILDREN IIIOONCHILDREN 
.......................................... 
Hi Cara, Map, Kelli, Trish, Metis. Mym, Patti, & ML! Love, T 
KAMIKAZE JAIII II IS COMING UP SOONII ASK YOUR FAVORITE 2ND WING ST.EDER FOR THE APRIL 17TH DETAILS. MORE TO FOLLOW!! 
HELP, I WANT TO SEE MY BROTHER GRADUATE!! NEED GRAD TIX!! CALL GAILAT2964 
...And after cleaning out Love Canal, they Immediately drove the chemical waste to South Bend where they sprayed It on the trees... 
HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THE YELLOW SUB 272-4453 MQ-TH 8·11pm FA-SA 8pm·1 am 
FUTURE LEMANS RESIDENTS!! DON'T FORGET TO VOTE JANKO MEEHAN 
PRES.&V-PRES. LEMANS HALL '85-'86 APRIL 17,1985 7A.M.-6P.M. HCC 
SIIIC Hall Electlona 
Wed. April17 HCC 
I. D. needed to vote 
Mym, Moe, and Moe, This is it! Today is the lirst day of the rest of our semester. We've done a great job together but I can't wait lor today to be over. Quaner beers at Bridget's here we come. Love, T 
EMERGENCYIll Need emergency drummer! Can you beat it? Call Jeff at 2469. 
EIIIERGENCY!II Need emergency drummer! Can you beat it? Call Jeff at 2469. 
Want to pan•cipate in AnToetal'a D1t1ng Gam~? Applications available in the AnTostal office' Any questions call 239­7668. Deadline is Friday, April 19th. 
Future REGINA RESIDENTS Vote YES for MARY FLYNN and LISA HAGEN on April 17th In the HCC 
HORN DOGS are alive and well In lllorrl...y Hall I 
NOTICE: Dave, the budget demi-god celabrales h1s bigtime 21st binhday today. All those both in and out of the accounting zone WISh him the happiest of days 
(Put away those ledgers and hit the bars!) 
Slam Dunk Contnt Slam Dunk ContHI Slam Dunk Contest 
Sign up now to show the world that you can stuff a basketball in the hoop as well the best in the NBA. Today lethe l..t day to algn up in the AnTostal office in LaFOf1une lrom 4 to 5:30p.m. 
Slam Dunk ContHt Slam Dunk Conteat Slam Dunk Contnt 
Have ZOO seen any w1fd an1mafs running around? They all escaped from the 
An Toetal Zoo' 
Post Graduate Serv•ce Oppor1un1ty WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
Pregnancy Help Center 
Counseling Aaaoclate Program If you are concerned about women who are expenenc1ng a problem pregnancy, the Women's Care Center has a program that may be be of interest to you. We are opposed to abor11on and want to help the woman facmg a problem pregnancy with life-saving alternatives by offering her the love and supp0f1 she may need to carry her child to term And we need your help. The Counseling AssoCiate Program IS offered to college graduates Interested 1n counseting or social work. and able to work at the Women's Care Center on a lull-time. v~unteer bas1s. For more info, please cal the Center at 23'1·0363. 
Parente and Grandparenta: What College Studente Need to Con-
alder Gerontologist Dr. Richard Hubbard ad­dresaes issues regarding the ag1ng in our society. 
Howard Hell Tomorrow night, 7 p.m. 
OBUD GRIPE NIGHT 
Wednndlly Aprll17,11185 
4:45 to &:45 Pill 
South Dining Halt 
BOOBIE-You will be "simply marvelous" 
HEY MICH-haven't gone out with you in a long time. Let's do somelh•ng thiS weekend! Love, Cathy. 
THE CLAIRE WILLIAMS TEAM IS THE BEST!!!!!!! 
LONDONEAS-Meg and Liz ... HI!I The Vegetable and I tned to call you last week, but were 15 min. late. I'll wnte soon. (M)anne 
"My tile IS a song." -Ana Esteve, April15, 1985 
ET, You're my idol George Parks 
REGISTER FOA THE MOST EXCITING, STIMULATING GAME YOU'LL EVEA PLAY KISSER REGISTRATION IS WEDNES· DAY, APRIL 17 6-7pm NEW ORLEANS ROOM LAFORTUNE 
$1 

SMC 
JANE AKALAITIS -President FELICIA STEIN-V1ce Pres• dent 
lor HOLVCROSS HALL 
Vote tomorrow in Haggar' 
HOLY CAOSS HALL K A L A I 
T 
I STEIN 

SMC 
VOTE TOMORROW FOR 
JANE AKALAITIS 
and 
FELICIA STEIN 
for 
Holy Cross Hall 
Prnldent 
and 
VIce Prnldlnt 
The Observer Tuesday, April16, 1985-page 9 
2, to Miami-Ohio. While Petro was 
disappointed with the team's perfor­
Tennis Laura Lee concentrates on doubles 
continued from page 12 
well last weekend in BowlingGreen, Ohio as they rolled over Central Michigan University, 9-0, and the University ofBowling Green with an identical 9-0 score. While the Irish expected a quick victory over Central Michigan, the team was surprised by Bowling Green's appar­ent weakness. 
"We thought (Bowling Green) would be tougher than they were, and we were ready for them," recalled LaFratta. "We wanted to get on and off the court quickly, and I don't think we split any matches with them." 
Last Friday, however, the Irish blemished their spring record for the third time this vear by losing. 7­mance, she thinks the loss will bene­fit the Irish if it motivates them to work harder for the Division II na­tional championship. 
"We didn't play well, and (Miami­Ohio) is a strong team," said Petro. "We knew we'd have to play our best tennis to beat them. We must get better than that to do well at Na­tionals." 
But the Irish players must first worry about that date with Goliath Northwestern. 
"We better not think Northwes­tern will ever give up," says LaFratta. "If we do lose, I hope we don't get down about the way we're playing." 
How Friday's loss motivates the team will be seen this afternoon ~ the Irish try to maintain their poise in King David's shoes. 
Hagler KO's Hearns in 3 
Associated Press was hurt late in the second round after Hagler hit him with several 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. -Thomas left hooks. After Hearns was Hearns had the round right, but decked in the third round, Steele he picked the wrong winner. counted to nine before waving 
Hearns, who had promised to the fight over as Hearns struggled knock out Marvelous Marvin to his feet. Hagler in the third round, was "I knew he'd had enough," 
himself stopped at 2:0I of the Steele said. "His eyes were glazed third after Hagler unleashed a se­and his legs were very wobbly." ries ofcrushing right hands to put Hearns, who took about 30 the challenger on the canvas. minutes to be checked by doc­
A dazed and battered Hearns tors before talking to the media, was carried back to his corner said the fight would not be his like a rag doll, the loser ofone of last. the most action-packed, if brief, "I know this is not the end for fights in recent history. me," Hearns said. "I'm a winner. I 
"I haven't seen that much ac-don't take defeat easily." tion in three rounds ever," said Hearns credited his rigorous referee Richard Steele, who has training with helping him come officiated bouts for I5 years. out of the fight with no per­
Steele said he knew Hearns manent injury. 
play, captain's duties in last season 
By DAVE WILSON Lee's participation in the champion­California following graduation and Sports Writer ship. pursue a career in public relations. "Laura is playing the best doubles But, until then, her focus is on the 
Her graduation may be just a of her life right now -that's all there tennis court. month away, but senior tennis is to it," says Petro. "She and Susie "Tennis is as much a commitment player Laura Lee is, for. now, more can take an individual title, and that's as any sport," she says. "We have interested in the first week of May. not just because they are playing so travelled quite a bit this year, and That is when Lee and the Notre well. They also are motivated by a that has cut into my social life. Being Dame women's tennis team will drive to win. In the end, that's what's on a team also makes it more diffi­travel to Southern California, Lee's going to make the difference. cult to keep up with classwork. home, for a long-awaited shot at the "I put a lot ofemphasis on coach-"Even so, I enjoy being co-captain NCAA Division II championship. 
and all that. Lisa and I are sort ofgo­
"I'm really excited about the trip, betweens for Coach Petro and the and I think we have a good chance to rest ofthe players. We keep the com­win," says Lee. "The team has im­munication going, which is impor­proved since early in the season, and tant to the team." our play has been pretty much con­Petro agrees with her player's sistent throughout." assessment, and appreciates her 
Lee has been a vital part of this contributions in this area as well as season's successful effort. She and on the court. her doubles partner, junior Susie "Laura is a helpful captain," says Panther, who are looking to improve Petro. "She is my communication to on last year's commendable 24-8 the team, and I also look to her for performance, have posted a I4-4 feedback from the players." mark this season for a team that is Lee's commitment to tennis is not looking to better last year's third­of the long-term variety, however. place finish in the NCAA tourna­She does plan to keep her game in ment. shape, but does not wish to plan her 
Not only is Lee successful as a ,.. ~. career around the sport. She men­doubles player, but she also enjoys •.. tions a possible offer from a New her role. "I didn't compete in York agent, but seems to prefer a
Laura Lee 
doubles until I came to Notre return to the West Coast instead. Dame," says the Agoura native. "I ing doubles," adds Petro. "Laura "This has been our best season think it's where I have my greatest gives me everything I expect from since I have been at Notre Dame," potential as a tennis player. I played her..-She is a great asset to the team." she says, "and I'm just glad it's my singles as a freshman, but I really en­Lee also enjoys her role as the senior year as well. It's exciting that joy just concentrating on doubles team's co-captain, along with senior we have such realistic chances at a now. Susie and I have a good chance Lisa LaFratta. A resident of Farley national championship." to win a title in California." Hall, she is currently enrolled in the Notre Dame's chances are so real­
Head coach Sharon Petro shares College ofArts and Letters. Lee plans istic because of the presence of Lee's optimism, and looks forward to to return to her home in Southern players like Laura Lee. 
Men's tennis team visits NU today after splitting pair in weekend play 
By MAR1YBURNS set. Obert then lost the third set to The Irish played extremely well Sports Writer give his opponent the match, 3-6, 7-against DePaul as they turned back 6, 6-3. No. 5 player Tom Grier put the Blue Demons, 9-0. No. I singles As the weather goes, so go the the Irish back on top with a 6-2, 6-4 player Joe Nelligan encountered a fortunes of the Notre Dame men's victory, but that lead proved short­tough time with his opponent, as he tennis team. lived as No. 6 player Paul Daggs barely won, 7-5, 7-6, but it was 
Friday afternoon in the sunshine could not fend off his opponent, smooth sailing the rest of the way as ofCourtney Tennis Courts, the Irish who beat him, 7-5,6-4. every Irish player posted a victory. burned DePaul, 9-0. On Sunday, The contest tied, all eyes turned After the weekend, Fallon was though, it was cloudy when the Irish indoors to the three doubles com­satisfied with the split and with his took to the outdoor courts at West­petitions which were to decide the team's progress, but he was more ern Michigan. They proceeded to match. Fallon, however, probably than ready to turn his sight to this roll off a few victories to get a lead wished that he was looking the other afternoon's contest at Northwes­on the strong Bronco team, but then way as the Irish lost all three tern. 
Pairings 
continued from page 8 
4 D1ngleberries Looking for a Good. . over The Shootist Fire Again by 3 Bookstore 10 4 People & a Short Fat Guy over The Laziest Scum of the Earth by I 8 Spudz Zaremba & the Couch Potatoes over The Ramblin Rim Wreckers by 4 Your Freudian Slip IS Showing. . over Digger Phelps & 4 Guys... by I 0 After Birth on Rye over Gilligan. Iceman, Sadist . by6 
Lyona11 Arsenal Gunners over The PC Lab Plays Bookstore by I 5 We Needed $5 to Play But Couldn't Get It From Bernhard... over Borns by 4 The Creatures over Chicks Are Sooo Stupid, 24-22 
SUMMERSTORAGESPACE 
(5 x 10 spaces avaUable) 
CaD 259-G335 to reserve space selflock storage of McKinley 
816 East McKinley Mishawaka Securitv Patrol Checks 
SENIOR MONTH REGISTRATION 
April16-17, 5-7 pm Where: Ombud desk main floor LaFortune or in the LeMans Lobby Advance ticket sales available for: 
Rush Street Trip • Great America Trip • Weddingless Reception Golf Tourney Tivoli's Party SMCLuau• 
OC Seniors may also pick up booklets. 
•Must purchase tickets at Registration only 
5 Mariners Who Do It With a Grunt .. over Psycho End & the ... by3 Lyons12 Your Mother Does Deep Knee Bends... over Pat Ewing, Baby Face ... by 13 2 Dillon Sweetwater Dudes... over Wuby & the Chair Throwers by 9 
Pedi's Pirates over Court Savvy by 6 
4 Geeks & Pissy Little Ship over White Rabbit by I I 
Women's Bookstore 
Y..terdlly's R..ulta 
Stepen 5 
Going All the Way over Massive Attitude Problem by 11 3 Wenches, A Smick & a Hatchet over Not Tonight Dear by forfeit 5 Women Who Want To Go All the Way over Joy­less Wonders by I 4 Stepen6 2 Enlightened Souls ... over Volleyball Goes Bas­ketball by forfeit Negligence over 5 Reasons to Become a Priest by 
20 
Why over Eeyhh! by 5 
disaster struck in the form of a cloudburst. Both teams were forced to go under shelter and play on the indoor surface, where Notre Dame promptly dropped all the rest of its matches, eventually falling, 6-3, to the Broncos. 
The I5-I 0 Irish will hope for good weather and a better result when they travel to Northwestern this af­ternoon to face the Wildcats. 
Head coach Tom Fallon, who has seen his squad drop other matches this season when it was forced to play indoors, was disappointed that his team could not pull off the upset at Western Michigan. 
"It was a tough one to lose," ad­mitted Fallon. "Western Michigan is a very tough team, and I thought we had them beaten. 
"It's a shame we had to go indoors. That was our kiss of death, because we lost three straight inside. It's al­ways a home-court advantage when you go indoors, because the surface is familiar to the home team." 
The outdoor surface at Western Michigan seemed quite comfortable to No. 2 singles player Mike Gibbons and to No. 3 Dan Walsh. Gibbons fought off his opponent, 7-6, 7-6, while the freshman Walsh took his foe, 7-6, 6-3. Things looked really sunny at that point for the Irish as they were up, 2-I, heading into the bottom halfofthe singles lineup. 
Notre Dame, however, dropped two of the next three matches to al­low Western Michigan to tie the overall singles competition, 3-3. The deluge began when No. 4 Dave Obert double-faulted in a second-set tiebreaker to give his opponent the matches to the Broncos. The No. I doubles team ofGibbons and Walsh suffered the key defeat, as they were narrowly edged, 7-6,6-7,6-3. 
Although the Notre Dame squad lost its match with Western Mic­higan, Fallon was still pleased with the overall outcome. 
"We're doing pretty well," said Fallon. "I was encouraged by the way we played. It may have beenour best tennis of the season. It was tough to lose, but I thought we played well." 
Bookstore 
continuedfrompage 12 
win with only 38 shots. Steve Skolozynski led the way with 7-of-I 0 shooting. 
Next to that game, at 4:00 on Bookstore 9, One Title IXer and 4 Victims of Reverse Discrimination were blown out by A Gynecologist, A Proctologist and 3 Other Guys Looking For a Good Opening, 2I-3. 
Lacrosse 
continuedfrompage 12 
two have scored 54 of the team's I13 goals. With Mclachlan scoring six goals, though, opponents now have to worry about more than just two attackmen. 
"It really helps to even out the at­tack some," says O'Leary. "Now other teams can't just concentrate 
"Northwestern is one of the bet­ter teams in the Big I 0," notes Fallon. "They have a strong team right down the lineup. I'm just hoping that we can play well and sharpen our game for the future. 
"The way we're playing, and if we're outdoors, we should play them respectalAy." 
In other words, ifthe Irish can get some respectable weather, they may be able to rain on the Wildcats' parade. 
"Yogi" Spence hit 9-of-16 for the  
winners.  
The biggest blowout of the day  
belonged  to  Rousseau's  Noble  
Savages, who rolled over Fat, 2I-2.  
The Savages, a Sweet Sixteen team in last year's tournament, were led by Brian Behmer's II-of-I6 shooting. Fat was permitted only 1 7 shots in  l  
the game. Two hundred fifty-six teams now remain in the tournament, as the second round gets underway this af­ l 
ternoon.  

on two people. The midfielders have helped out a lot in that area, not by scoring a lot, but by creating a lot of opportunities." 
The Irish will now have the week off before heading out to Granville, Ohio, for a very important confer­ence game against Denison. The Big Red, along with Ohio Wesleyan, rep­resent the biggest challenge to Notre Dame's claim as the best lacrosse team in the Midwest. 
The Observer 
Patterson, mile relay set records 
Track team does well when split 

ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track team was well-represented at both the Dag­wood Relays in Nashville, Tenn., and at the Purdue Relays in West Lafayette, Ind., la..~t weekend. Coach Joe Piane solved the dilemma of choosing in which meet to partici­pate by splitting his troops into two contigents. lbe strategy paid off for the Irish, as both squads made good 
showing..~. 
Piane and a split squad faced some tough competition at the Dagwood Relays at the University of Tennes­see. The Irish, however, were not in­timidated by their quality opponents, and Piane was pleased with the final results. 
Irish co-captain James Patterson started the ball rolling for the squad 
Saint Mary's tennis team wins 2, loses just 1 in triangular meet at DePauw over weekend 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN 
Sports Wrl ter 
lbe Saint Mary's tennis team travelled to DePauw University in Greencastle, Ind., over the weekend for a trimatch and brought back two victories and one loss. 
The highlight of the trip came when the Belles, an NAIA team, tri­umphed over the University of Cin­cinnati, an NCAA Division I team, by an impressive 9-0 victory. 
"I was very pleased with the win," said Saint Mary's coach Jo-Ann Nester. "Cincinnati is supposedly a strong team and we beat them hand­ily." 
A.~ well a..~ handling Cincinnati, the Belles also thwarted DePauw's ef­fort, and beat the l.ittle Giants easily, 8-l. DePauw is one of the team's major rivals in Indiana and has upgraded its program from NAIA to Division II recently. "It's nice we're by breaking the school record in the triple jump. Patterson's jump ofSO.7 feet bettered the previous school standard of 50.25, set by Patterson himselflast year. 
Another Notre Dame record fell in the mile relay, as the Irish team reached the tournament finals with a quick 3:08.11 time. 
The Tennessee meet saw more in­dividual successes for Irish track members LLoyd Constable and Jeff VanWie. VanWie, a sophomore, ran a time of I: S I. 18 in the 800 meters to qualify himself for the NCAA's, while Constable made one of his usual outstanding high jumps, clear­ing the bar at 6.1 1 feet. 
Needless to say, Piane was satisfied with the team's perfor­mance in the Volunteer State. 
"It's a hell of a meet," Piane says. "It's extremely competitive, and I'm just happy that the kids did-so well." 
Irish assistant coach Ed Kelly, 
still strong enough to beat them," was Nester's reaction. 
The only loss for the Belles came at the hands of Principia College, which handed Saint Mary's a 7-2loss. Principia's strength was with its No. 1 singles player and doubles team which were division champs last year. However, the key this weekend was Principia's ability to win close matches. Three of the Belles' single players split sets and lost the tiebreakers. 
"Those matches could have gone either way," said Nester who was, nevertheless pleased with her team's performance, "but the team played very well and the matches provided good experience for na­tionals." 
Nester stated that she was very pleased with the Belles' playing in­tensity all weekend. The team has been playing stronger teams in its spring season than it did in the fall, 

Looking for a good elective? Look over the selections in Theology 
(400-level courses are open to qualified juniors and seniors and are not limited to Theology majors.) 
THEO 307 History and Archeology of Israel 
HEO 383,384,385 Asian Religions (Mini-courses, 1 credit each. May be taken as one course for 3 credits) 
THEO 388 Passage to India (Also listed as English 378)
t THEO 402 Israel's Psalms and Christian Prayer 
I• 
THEO 405 Mysticism In Judaism 
! THEO 423 The Patristic Heritage: From Early Church Through 
Aquinas 
~ 
THEO 433 Seminar In Systematic Theology 
THEO 444 Religion and Mysticism 
THEO 465 Becoming a Chrlstlon 
RLST 338 Prayer and Poetry Joseph Blenklnsopp Collett Cox 
Collett Cox and Stephen Fredman 
Roland Murphy 
Roger Brooks Jean Laporte 
Thomas O'Meara John Dunne Eugene Gorski Keith Egan 
N.B. SOME OF THESE COURSES CAN SATISFY THEOLOGY 
REQUIREMENTS. FOR DETAILS INQUIRE Al rHEOLOGY OFFICE,327,:.. .. 1 {J'SI 1 AIIGHNES~Y. 
meanwhile, journeyed with the other track squad to Purdue for the Purdue Relays. Kelly undoubtably liked what he saw there, for the Irish turned in a solid performance, espe­cially in the field events. 
Freshman Brian Driscoll led the Irish scorecard ofsuccess by placing first in the javelin competition with a toss of 189.3 feet. In the long jump, meanwhile, sophomore Joel Autry set a personal best with a leap of23.5 feet. That mark was good for third place in the long jump competition, and it qualified him for the IC4A championships. Rounding out the list of achievements were runner Paul O'Connell and discus thrower Tim Smith. Smith placed fourth overall in his competition, while O'Connell finished fourth in the 400 meters. 
The Irish successes on the road proved how much depth the squad is endowed with this season. 
and the stiffer competition should be beneficial as the Belles prepare for nationals in late May. 
The Belles have a good 4-l spring record although all their matches so far have been against NCAA teams. They are ranked 1Oth in the nation among NAJA division schools. 
The next match for Saint Mary's will be played at home against Notre Dame on April 25. 

Tuesday, April 16, 1985 page 10 
Tim Corrigan of the Irish lacrosse team scored a goal and bad two assists this weekend as Notre Dame beat Wooster, 15-10. The Irish were led by john McLachlan's six goals, while Bob Trocchi broke the all-time career scoring record by scoring three goals and assisting on five others. For more details, see the story on the back 
page. 
soe MIXED DRINKS TIL 11 
Thursday, Aprill8 
3for1 BUDS LIVE ••• "COLD DRINKS" 
Friday, Aprill9 
90•JMPORTS • 
Saturday, April 20 
60e BAR DRINKS and DRAFrS TIL 11 90e 14oz BUDS 
Senior Bar 


The Far Side Gary Larson 
/J~f?N 1HiiT 5U8Tlc, fEf'IIININ£ 

Kevin Walsh 
"Listen! The authorities are helpless! If the city's to be saved, I'm afraid it's up to us! This Is our hour!' 

Bloom County 
ON6 MI&HT WONP£R. 711€ STOI?Y f3EH1Nili/U. 7HIS NICe CHfiP ut<e Mf IS .nn,,WI"'VI C/IN Bf 51JMMUl UP IN 
( 1) ,SAY, HOW '!JOUT fl P!IT6 ?" ON II WKfS1lfNG /YifiT F/ICING TWO SfNTeNC£5 UTref?tf? 
(2) ''SOf<RY... I ONl-Y ftf/Y
II ~1/RGf INP/VIIll/fll. IN fl RECENT 
SNIJG&t.B~IJNN/65 WITH
WHOS£ Flf?ST Nll/Yit CONVfRSfJTION: MIICHO PKO WKt5TC£R.5."
IS "Nfltl ·:.. 
Zeto 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Desert robes 5 Gaza­
10 Fit 14 Wad 15 Fruit 16 Tres­17 Vast area 18 Roam far and 
wide 19 Major Hoople's favorite oath 20 Monumental assignment 23 Literary 
collection 24 Current meas. 25 Concerned 29 -main 32 Intuitive 
power 35 Like -from 
the blue 36 A Brummel 37 Sgt. 38 Handyman 42 River In Wales 43 Is troubling 44 Proof of sorts, 
for short 45 Modem: praf. 46 Penetrating 
word 47 Sleeps noisily 48 Temporary 
interest 50 Joke 51 Management 
headache 58 Kind of dancer 59 Sculled 60 Logging tools 62 Scored in 
tennis 63 Social unit 64 Queue 65 Medicinal 
amount 66 Goose genus 67 Harrow's rival 
DOWN 1 Wing 2 Plant 3 Fr. friend 4 Box 5 Bailed out 6 Notes 


©1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 4/16/85 All Rights Reserved l .
Monday's So ut10n 
7 Esoteric writing 8 Swenson of "Benson" 
9 Hammer part 10 Nautical term 11 Profligate one 12 Seepout 13 Remnant 21 Division of 
a poem 22 Marble 25 Fr. dialect 26 Humble 27 Hymn favorite 28 Sort 29 Casal's 
instrument 30 Dutch painter 41 Fuss 53 Mountain lake 31 Not at home 46 Expression of 54 Authorof 33 Public commitment "Trinity" 
disagreement 47 Machine tool 55 Low-lying tract 34 Guard stations 49 Private place 56 Wayout 36 Come·on 50 Loon kin 57 Gambling town 39 Rooter 51 Batty 58 Rove 40 A Starr 52 List 61 Jap. money 
Campus 
•3:30 
P.M. -Graduate Seminar, "Catalyst Deactivation as Studies by Transient Kinetic Methods," Prof. Paul Biloen, University ofPit­tsburgh, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

• 
5:15p.m. Senior Class Mass, Sacred Heart. 

• 
7 P.M. -PresentationForJuniors, "Filling Out Your Profile Form for On-Campus Inter­views," Paul Reynolds, Assistant Director, Career & Placement Services, Room 122 Hayes Healy. 

•
7-9 P.M. -Ticket Distribution,For Tommy Shaw Concert & Rock-A-like Contest, Lafortune Ballroom, Free. 

•7:30 
P.M. -InformationalMeeting, Elkhart Hospital/Memorial Hospital Emergency Room Internship Program, Room 104 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Anthropology Department. 


TV Tonight 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Southern fried chicken Beefand noodle Casserole Mushroom quiche Saint Mary's Pasta Extravaga.nza Veal scallopini Variety ofpastas Variety ofsauces 
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Fall Guy/Columbo  
28  ABC News Nightline  
28  Love Connection  
16  Late Night With David Letterman  
28  Children Between Life and Death  
22  Nightwatch  

8:00p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
16 TheA-Team 
22 Special -Space 
28 Three's ACrowd 
34 Nova 28 Foul-Ups, Bleeps & Blunders 
16 Riptide 
28 Who's The Boss? 
28 Hail To The Chief 
16 Remington Steele 
28 MacGruder & Loud 
34 Austin City Limits 11:00 p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
12:00 a.m. 
12:30a.m. 2:00a.m. 

You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 




~--------­
~---­

Tuesday, April 16, 1985-page 12
SRorts 
Bookstore field narrowed to 256 as first-round action comes to an end 
By PHIL WOLF ssitant rector Edward "Monk" Mal­Shirley, as Pete Brown hit 12-of-26 
AssistantSports Editor loy, lost last year to Tequila White in his team's 21-19 loss to Chaotic 
Ughtning IV, the eventual tourna­Oscillations. A balanced scoring at­
Thirty-one teams advanced to the ment runner-up. Malloy hit only 5-tack was the key for the victors, who 
second round of the world's largest of-11 shots yesterday, however, got 8-of-24 shooting from Milan 
single-elimination basketball tourn­whileJoe Nelligan had II points and Kosanovich and 6-of-1 7 from Bob 
ament yesterday as Bookstore XIV Doug Pratt scored seven for the Thompson. 
continued. Play was marked by Dingleberries. Spudz Zaremba and the Couch 
some overtime games, other close The crowd at Lyons 1I was enter­Potatoes rode Dave Smith's II-of-24 
ones, at least one major upset, a few tained by Five Marines Who Do It shooting to a 21-I7 victory over The 
blowouts and, of course, some With a Grunt Try to Score, but it was Ramblin' Rim Wreckers. Eric Baum­
clowning. Psycho End and the Demebuffers gartner hit 8-of-19 and John 
The highest-scoring game of the who came away with the victory. "Quincy" Adams was 5-of-13 for the 
day was The Creatures' 24-22 vic­The marines made it as easy as possi-Rim Wreckers. 
tory over Chicks Arc Sooo Stupid at Despite the the fact that Mark 
S:30 on Lyons I I. The Creatures' Worscheh backed out of playing 
Tim O'Brien left the game twice with the team, We're Worschless 
with what appeared to be a sprained beat The Rudes, 21-18, at 6: I 5 on 
ankle, but he refused to quit entirely, @-,~ XIV Stepan 4. The winners were not 
and he eventually scored the game­\ Kimlerless, however, as Kirk Kimler 
winning basket. O'Brien led his team 
\ I ' made his presence felt with I2-of-27 
'I 
Bookstore 
with nine points on 32 attempts.Jim shooting. Mark Milnamow went 8­
Brown had eight for the losers. of-20 for lbe Rudes. 
Five Guys "Ibat Wear Panty Hose ble for their opponents to win, as Meanwhile, on Stepan 6, on lbcir Heads did, in fact, come on each uniformed marine did 10 pus­Worscheh ( 2-of-11 ) was little help to Bookstore 9 sporting Iegwear hups after every missed shot. Still, it to Gravity Is a Myth, the Earth Sucks over their faces, but they removed took Psycho End a while before the II, but his team still destroyed Too the bothersome headwear before team could get the 21-I8 win. Cool to Move, 2I-3. The losers were beating Five Schizophrenics and lls, In the Battle of Those With Sex­too cool to hit 31 of their shots, 22-20. The Five Guys got seven Related Problems on Stepan 1 at while the victors relied on the points from Rudy Brandl, six from 5:30, You Can't Be Pregnant, I Didn't shooting of Jim Capretta ( 7-of-14) Kurt Petersen and five from Bill feer Fertile lost to You Can Have and Bob Vonderheide (7-of-I9). Boyle to overcome Schizo John lbcm Lengthened..., 21-19. Brian The Laziest Scum of the Earth Regan's II baskets. Wycliff and Mike Etling scored were too lazy to shoot the ball yes­
In another close contest on the seven and six, respectively, to lead terday on Bookstore 10 at 4:00, as Bookstore courts, lbe Shootist Fire the infertile ones, while John Regal­the team went 3-of-20 enroute to a Again, a top-seeded team, was upset buto led the winners to victory with 2I-3 loss to Four People and a Short by Four Dingleberries Looking for a seven points. Fat Guy. The Scum also were not big Good Opening and a Kresgie. "Inc It was "Sweet Pete" who almost on defense, as they let the victors Shootist, a popular team featuring came through for Sweet William and Assciatc Provost and Sorin Hall as-4 Other Guys Who Made It With Fat see BOOKSTORE, page 9 
Lacrosse team beats Wooster as Trocchi sets scoring mark 
By MIKE SULLIVAN way. McLachlan, a sophomore tunities and he's come close to that forced Wooster to play an un­and 12-S at the enc.J ofthe third quar­Sports Writer who had eight goals and six assists scoring a lot of goals before, but successful game of catch-up. After ter. The Scots c.Jid close the gap to coming into the game, exploded for today we happened to get a lot of the Scots scored first to take their 12-8, but the Irish answered that The Notre Dame lacrosse team six goals and two assists against goals in unsettled situations and he only lead of the day, Trocchi hit Joe threat with a pair of goals of their 
nmtinued to roll through its Mid­Wooster in what was easily the best was right in front of the goal." Franklin with a pass in front of the own. west Lacrosse Association schedule game of his short Notre Dame Although McLachlan's perfor­goal. Franklin scored to knot the "Wooster has a couple of really this weekend as it defeated the Col­career. His eight points tied a school mance was impressive, his feats contest at 1-1. good players, but we pretty much 
lege of Wooster, I S-10, at Wooster, record for points in a game, while his were surpassed by Trocchi, who not McLachlan's goal 30 seconds later controlled them the whole game," 
Ohio. "lbe victory improved the six goals also tied a record. It was his only contributed three goals and on a feed from Trocchi put the Irish said O'Leary. "We did a good job Irish conference mark to 4-0 ( 6-S goal with 6:37 remaining in the first five assists to match McLachlan's ahead for good and was followed clearing the ball ( 20 successful overall) and was Notre Dame's I Oth quarter that broke a 1-1 tie and gave record-tying eight points, but also soon alter by a power-play goal by clears in 26 tries) and heat them straight MIA win over the past two the Irish a lead they never would 
set the all-time Notre Dame scoring Trocchi which allowed him to break considerably on ground balls ( 77­years. relinquish. record. The 6-0 senior from Sud­Steve Pearsall's school record of 12 5 55). We also got a lot ofshots (Notre '!banks largely to the record­
"John has played very well this bury, Mass., now has 13I points (79 career points. Dame outshot Wooster, 54-27)." setting performances of attackmen year and always seems to be in the goals, 52 assists) in his career, By the time Wooster was able to O'Leary was also pleased to get Bob Trocchi and John McLachlan, right place," says head coach Rich despite playing only three years at get back on the board, Notre Dame some scoring out of people other the Irish were able to move out to a O'Leary of the 5-5, 130-pound Notre Dame. had scored twice more to take a S-2 than Trocchi and Franklin. lbosc large early lead over the Fighting McLachlan, the third leading scorer Uke McLachlan, Trocchi had a lead into the second quarter. The 
see LACROSSE, page 9 Scots and then coast the rest of the on the team. "He's had a lot ofoppor-major role in Saturday's early spurt margin increased to 9-5 at halftime 


-
Tennis team aims for Goliat 


Irish women hope to surprise No. 6-ranked Wildcats in final home match of '85 season 
By MARY SIEGER While the Irish do not expect to defeat Northwestern Sports Writer this afternoon, there is potential for some players to surprise the Wildcats in individual games. No one ever said playing the role of King David "I definitely don't want to lose 9-0," says LaFratta. would be easy -especially when Goliath is in top form. "We usually have matches that arc pretty dose, espe­
Just ask Richard Gcrc about his latest starring role or cially in doubles, and l think we have a good chance to members of the Notre Dame women's tennis team as get a couple of matches." they stare face to face with powerful tennis giant While Petro would be happy to sec any ofher players Northwestern University today at 3 p.m. in Courtney take a victory, she is hoping only that the match will be a Tennis Center in the final home meet of the season. good experience for her squad. 
Notre Dame will put its impressive I7-3 spring "Generally, this meet improves our concentra­record on the line against the Wildcats this afternoon in tion,"cxplains Petro. "We must concentrate on every what should be one of the team's most lopsided dual point to not get blown off the court. We shouldn't meets of the season. After dropping a tightly-fought worry about winning or losing, but about every point." match to UCLA, S-4, last Sunday, the Wildcats roar into Today's battle against the Wildcats means more to South Bcnc.J looking to defend their sixth-place ranking seniors Laura Lee, Cathy Schnell, Lisa Gleason and in the NCAA Division I. LaFratta than an opportunity to play giant slayers. It is 
"They're playing well," says Irish head coach Sharon their farewell appearance with the Irish in Courtney Petro. "We're going to try to play well against a good Center. team. It will help us for our upcoming (National) tourn­"It hasn't hit us yet, but when it hits it will be sad," ament." said LaFratta. "It will be neat playing on our home court 
"I like playing teams that are 'better' than us, because for the last time, and it will be a nice way to go out if I you don't get to play teams that good that often," says can do well against Northwestern." Notre Dame co-captain Usa LaFratta. "(We) don't have Those four seniors, and the entire Irish squad, did anything to lose, while they do." 
Last year, the Wildcats drubbed Notre Dame, 9-0. 
see TENNIS, page 9 




