
-----~ --------~----------­
Tickets -page 7 

VOL XX, NO. I 0 the indqwmlnll ~lutknt Ill"\\ ~paper ~lT\ ing notn dame and ~aint man·., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 19RS 

academia exhausting, but 90-degree temperatures and high humidity, expected to last through the weekend, add to the general feeling oflethargy.
grass in front of Declo Faculty Hall. Not only is 

140,000 students prolong vacations as teachers strike across country 
The union's House of Delegates said John Cahill, spokesman for the 
suspended the strike pending a Sept. Washington Education Association, 
CUICAGO · Classes began yester­19 ratification vote on the two-year a statewide teachers group that is day for Chicago's 431,000 public contract by its 28,000 members and aiding the Seattle Teachers Associa­school students following a two-day by 12,000 non-teaching members of tion. teachers' strike, but walkouts in 17 other unions. About 3,700 teachers, substitutes, seven states prolonged summer The settlement calls for a six per­aides and secretaries went on strike vacations for 140,000 other stu­cent pay raise in the first year and Tuesday, a day before the district's dents, Including 43,000 In Seattle. three percent in the second year. It 43,000 students were supposed to 
In Chicago, the nation's third would increase the average salary of have returned to school. largest district, teachers and parents a Chicago teacher to S30,878 from School Board Chairman T.J. Vassar were relieved and students resigned S29, 130 this academic year, and to said at a board meeting Wednesday at the: news of a contract settlement. S31 ,804 next year. night he was confident new talks The: walkout, which cost students In Seattle, teacher representatives could be productive. one day of classes, was the third in and district officials met informally Main issues in the dispute were lhrc:e years. yesterday in what the union said the state-imposed salary limit, class 
A tentative agreement between could be a prelude to a new round of size, lack of extra pay for extra work the Chicago Teachers Union and official talks to end the three-day days, a personal stipend for materials school board officials came Wednes­walkout. and supplies, and transfer policies day after a 30-hour bargaining ses­"The purpose as we understand it for surplus teachers with seniority. sion mediated by James Reilly, chief was to be an off-the-record kind of 
see TEACHERS, page 3 of staff for Gov. James Thompson. thing, informal and exploratory," 

Last month's IFCU conference attended by Hesburgh and Healy 
By LYNNE R. STRAND power from Rome over Catholic and meetings" was more beneficial StaffReportn-universities." than the conference itself. McDonnell, by winning a national "The people are the best part," 
"Father Ted was the life of the contest on "the expectations of Hesburgh said to Healy. "There are party," said Bill Healy, student body youth at Catholic universities," was real men behind the titles." president, describing his recent trip invited to the conference by the As· The president of the Dominican with President Theodore Hesburgh sociation of Catholic Colleges and Republic spoke at the IFCU's to the Santo Domingo conference of Universities. opening ceremony guarded by four the International Federation of Cat· When asked what accounted for men holding machine guns. Accord­holic Universities. his participation in the conference, ing to Healy, he and McDonnell 
Last month Hesburgh and Healy · Healy said, "l was there as a listener, were sitting only 10 feet away from accompanied by Provost Timothy to give input to other students." the podium. "It really added to the O'Meara, Dean of the College ofArts Boston College and Creighton whole air of the~ ceremony...That and Letters Michael Loux, their University also sent student night, I could not sleep,"he said. wives, and student Maureen McDon­representatives to the conference. To help get "an ear for the lan­nell · attended the international dis­guage," Healy took a Spanish crash cussion. Both Healy and McDonnell were course over the summer. Con­
The Paris-based IFCU holds its impressed with the quality of the ference delegates used headphones conferences every three years. college administrators who ran the "for simultaneous translations." French, Spanish, and English all are conference. Healy said his funniest conversa­spoken because delegations attend "I couldn't get over it," said tion was with a frenchman. Both from North and South America, McDonnell. "Everyone was so bril­conversing in "poor Spanish, we had Europe, Africa, Indonesia, and the liant." Healy added, "You think ofin­a riot. Everyone was so willing to Middle East. telligent people as stuffy, but they try." 
This year, according to Healy, weren't that way at all." Commissioned by Pope Paul XI, delegates focused on a draft of a "But the best part," Healy said, Hesburgh wrote the IFCU constitu· document on "Catholic Institutions "was that we really enjoyed our­tion. A former IFCU president for 1 5 of Higher Learning." Healy said the selves." He said the opportunity "to years, he chaired a day's session in· document "basically asserts more really know people through meals troducing the speakers. 

6,000 expected to play game of musical chairs to break world record 
By FRANKJ. MASTRO The event will be verified through StaffReporter both local judging and media coverage. Father David Tyson, 
Having a chair pulled out from un­Provost Timothy O'Meara and der you may help Notre Dame and Registrar Daniel Wini<:ur tentatively Saint Mary's enter "The Guinness have agreed to judge. Book of World Records" in their at· All the major networks and wire tempt to break the world record for services have been invited as well as the largest game of musical chairs. all the media within a 1 00-mile 
The attempt will be made this af. radius. ternoon at 5:15 on Green Field. "Everyone who's anyone has bet."n 
The current record for the most invited," said Willis. "An event like participants in a game of musical this should attract ht."avy coverage. chairs is 5,060 · set by the State Uni­When Ohio State broke the record versity of New York at Albany this in 1983, "20/.20" did a segment past spring. Tonight, at least 6,000 about it," he said. chairs will be assembled in the shape Due to the size of the event, of the letters ND and SMC. registration of all participants is es­
"The goal is 6,000. I think right sential, and has been conducted in now, from the preliminary estimates the dorms and the dining halls. and the fact that we're inviting the The last chance to register will be public, we should do it," said Vince at Green Field between 3 and 5p.m. Willis, a Notre Dame sophomore today. At this time, those who al­and one of the game's organizers. ready have registered will receive 
The game will begin with 100 their official game numbers. fewer chairs than people. One "The idea to break a world record hundred chairs will be taken away was presented to me this summer," each time the music stops until 900 said Jim Domagalski, president of chairs remain. the junior class. "We just sat down 
With only 900 chairs left, the and came up with the musical chairs procedure of chair elimination will idea." change slightly. After each stop of "It originally started as a Class of the music, 10 percent ofthe remain­'87 project, but it became a campus­ing chairs will be pulled until 100 wide project when we realized the remain. The final chairs then will be number of people involved," removed one at a time until a winner Domagalski said. is declared. As a result, all three upperclass 
"My guess is that it will be over see CHAIRS, page 4 between 9 and IOp.m.," Willis said. 
This is not a stick-up 
After hours in line, .freshman Vicky Rappold gets the football tickets she has been waiting for · conveniently located in the end zone. 
~---~ 
~ The Observer Friday, September 6, 1985 -page 2 
r 
~ 

In Brief 
Kerry Temple has been appointed 
managing editor ofNotre Dame Magazine, editor Walton Collins has announced. He succeeds James Winters, who has accepted an ap­pointment as articles editor ofChicago Magazine. Temple is the aut­hor of several articles for area and national publications, and has been serving as associate editor of the magazine. He is a 1974 graduate ofNotre Dame, and earned a graduate degree in journalism from Louisiana State University in 1976. -The Obseroer 
A screaming mob of students, numbering 
approximately 1500, celebrated the traditional first "Emil quiz" last night by storming Memorial library. Sophomore Dan DeBoer described the fiasco as "the greatest good-bye to Emil ever," and said both freshmen and sophomores participated. Today students in Professor Emil Hofman's general chemistry class will take the first of the infamous weekly quizzes. -The Obseroer 

Of Interest 
The M1V Rock-A-Like concert, featuring 
rock star Tommy Shaw and Notre Dame sophomore Kevin Herbert's impersonation of Bruce Springsteen, will be shown on a big screen television Saturday at the Alumni-Senior Club. The event, which will last from 9p.m. to 2a.m., also will feature the band Cold Drinks and is sponsored by Around the Corner, the new undergraduate club. -The Obseroer 
A world's record attempt at musical chairs will take place tonight at 5 on Green Field during the campus-wide Hawaiian Luau, which will last from 4:45 to 6:45. Student govern­ment organizers hope to smash the previous record of5,060 people, set by State University ofNew York at Albany, with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff, as well as their families and area residents. Everyone is invited to join in the attempt.-The Obser­
ver 
"Racism in America" will be the topic ofa series of talks at the Center for Social Concerns, beginning this afternoon from 12:1 5 until 1. The talks, which are limited to faculty and staff, will be initiated today by Maureen Hallinan, White Chair in sociol­ogy, who will speak on "Interracial Friendship in the Elementary School Classroom." -The Obseroer 
Canoe rentals continue daily at Leeper Park in South Bend, less than two miles from campus. The rental hut is open on weekends from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Canoe rental cost is Sl 1 per canoe, with up to three people in each canoe. Canoes can be taken along the Saint Joseph River to either Saint Patrick's County Park in Roseland, or to Niles, Mich. A shuttle bus will bring canoeists back to leeper Park. Call Saint Patrick's County Park at 277-4828 for more information. -The Obseroer 
George Rickey, internationally-recognized as a pioneer of kinetic sculpture, will have a major exhibition open this Sunday from 1 to 4p.m. Exhibits will be held at five locations in the South Bend area, including the South Bend Art Center, the Snite Museum, Saint Mary's College, Indiana University at South Bend and at his original home at 1005 Washington St. A bus to the exhibit locations will leave Saint Mary's circle at 1 :30 and the Notre Dame circle at 2. The film "George Rickey: Portrait of an Artist," will be shown at the Century Center at 1:30, 2:30 and 3:30. All events are free ofcharge.­
The Obseroer 

Weather 
The end is not near of this hot and humid weather. It will be mostly sunny, hot and humid today with a high in the lower 90s. Fair and warm are the catch words for tonight, with a low around 70. Even the weather is get­ting its last chance for summer reruns on Satur­day, with a high in the lower 90s under mostly sunny skies in a generally hot and humid en­

vironment. -AP 


'lbe Obeerftr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. 1be Obaet-Rr Is publlahed by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may he purchased for 130 per year ( 120 per se· mester) by writing 1be Obaet-Rr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of 'lbe Aseoclated Preas. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Design Edltor............ : .... Maurttn Murphy DeslgnA.<slstant............... Mellssa Warnke LayoutStaff............................... Mlriam Hill Typesetters ...................................Tom Small Mary Ellen Harrington 
Becky Gunderman Typist........................... Kathleen McKernan News Editor .............................Jane Kravcik Copy Editor ................... Cindy Rauckhorst Sports Copy Editor ................. Marty Bums VIewpoint Copy Editor .......Aimee Storin VIewpoint Layout...................Joe Murphy VIewpoint Quotes .................Tom Darrow Features Copy Edltor ...............Sam Moore Features Layout ............ Mark McLaughlin ND Day Editor ....................... Lynne Strand SMC Day Editor .................. MaryJean Sully Ad Design ......................Jeanie Grammens 
Michelle Martin Jess Pesta Photographer ........................ Drew Sandler 

Passing years inspire maturity and off-campus living 
Two weeks ago, I moved into my nine-month Hoosier home for the final time. It was different from my first three moving-in experiences in one dramatic way: I didn't move into a dorm. 
Off-campus life has its ups and downs. Three cannot live as cheaply as one. Dishes will not clean themselves no matter how long left near a soapy sink. The old man who used to clean our bathroom doesn't make house calls. 
The first time I passed my former dorm, that pile of brick named after Mr. Flanner, I said a Hail Mary, thank­ing the Lord for delivering me from the place once called a "penal colony"-by an assistant rector. The next time, two Hail Marys. Now, I say a rosary. Soon, I fear, I'll have to learn the Apostle's Creed again. 
Granted, many Domers love their dorms from day one, spend hours rapping with the rector and think living with several hundred members ofthe same sex is socially stimulating. They, I think, are mature for their ages. We had other names for them. 
The people with whom I lived for three years, the "we" in this story, were not of that sort. We were im­mature and spent most of our time proving it. 
"Immature" is one of those stupid words people use to describe something they can't explain. In this in­stance, it means not being grown-up enough to realize that some things are wrong, others are right, and one ought not do things which are the former. 
Immature  people  are  
mutts  on  a  walk,  sniffing  
everything  that  smells,  
treading  on  forbidden  turf, going gleefully  to  the  

bathroom wherever nature calls. 
Though all good Catholic boys who loved their mot­hers, we nevertheless felt this urge to break free -along with any thing or rule that got in the way. 
A good time was our common goal, but we were never evil enough to deliberately hurt someone. Call our movie, "Hedonists Go To College." 
Sometime during sophomore year, things began to change. I began hearing little voices in the back of my head saying,"Thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not blow up toilets, thou shalt not propel burning solid objects down the hall at twice the speed of sound." It became maddening. 
Suddenly, I couldn't remember the process for "pennying-in." My toothpaste bombs lacked creativity. Friday nights in the library seemed less offensive. 
I'm even -double gasp -getting married next sum­mer. My bride-to-be won't tolerate volcanoes at the din-


Bob Musselman 
Assistant News Editor 
ner table. 
Most of my colleagues have taken similar plunges. The real world and a career seem right around the corner. Mom and Dad call less often. 
Many 18 year-olds don't have much common sense. Some do, or are fortunate enough to live with others who are grown-up and provide a steadying iniluence. Others, like a hurricane, dwell and prey on each other's weaknesses until one big bad situation forms. 
Dorms don't let that situation run its course, probably the best solution to the problem. Like a hur­ricane, it will eventually die out. There may be some damage. Some will have to pay the price. 
Hall staffs, priests and brothers at the head, would rather not deal with stu­dents who don't play by the rules. Who can blame them? Should the majority suffer for the few? I'm not sure. 
Notre Dame, however, is a place to learn. Mutts can be taught not to do their busi· ness on the neighbor's lawn. It just depends how you care about the dog. 
I guess my prayers, as I see 

Flanner each day, should be directed at the guys who still live there. For those ex­perimenting with grain alcohol or calcium carbide (makes a great bomb), here's hoping that you don't get caught and you don't hurt someone. 
For the mature leaders all around campus, I pray for patience, which you need much more than that copy of DuLac on your desk. Sure, l 0 students are on the waiting list for each one you throw out. But I don't think that's necessary. Time (and appropriate punishment) will produce students who have become decent citizens. 
In reality, my reason for moving off-campus does not center around a desire for unspeakable pleasure and in­dependence. Now that common sense rather than a rec­tor says, "don't do that, you jerk," stupid things aren't fun anymore. I just want peace, quiet and a few beers now and then. 
Maturity corrupts. 

ANSWER: 
I may not be those Bob Welches, but I am the Bob Welch who sells used cars at 
BASNEY 
"'HONDA 
3820 N.Grape Rd. Mishawaka,ln. 256-5550 

or Years ... Fatima Retreat Center has offered Football Weekend Retreat Programs to family, friends and alumni of Notre DAme 
The Retreat Begins on Thurs. evening and ends Sat. at noon $245 per couple includes: the retreat, two nights lodging, meals and tickets for the game Places still available for October 17-19 Retreat (Army) If interested in further info for family orfriends, Call Fatima: 234-10 7 

r-------------------------,Coupon I
1 Coupon 
I FAN SALE I I 30%· 60~ff Fans I
I 
(while Quantities last) I 120" 3-Speed Reg 24.99 -Now 17.991 120'' 3-S~eed Reg 34.99 -Now 24.991 1 Deluxe 1 110" 2-Speed Reg 39.99 -Now 15.991 
I JCPenney I 
University Park Mall 

I
I Coupon Coupon
Mishawaka 

~-------------------------~ 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 
Friday, September 6, 1985 -page 3 
New assistant dean of engineering, chairman of physics dept. among positions announced by provost 



Cason,  chairman  of  the  physics  
department.  
Also appointed  were:  Cornelius  

Delaney, acting chairman of the philosophy department; Catherine Flanagan, assistant dean of The Col­lege of Arts and Letters; Morton 
Fuchs, chairman of the biological "The teachers' position right now sciences department, and Lorenzo is that we are willing to negotiate ... Gallo, chairman of the physical
Teachers 
at any time, any place," said Michael education department.continuedfrom page I Segerson, a third-grade teacher and Also, Sister Mary Jane Griffin, 
In Rhode Island, walkouts by Paw­picket coordinator. O.S.F., acting director of the Center tucket and Newport teachers idled But Laurent Rousseau, negotiating for Social Concerns; George I2, I00 students for a second day. Su­attorney for the School Committee, Howard, chairman of the psychol­perior Court hearings on return-to­said he does not expect a quick ogy department; David Klein, chair­work orders sought by the cities' settlement. "It seems the two sides man of the department ofsociology, school committees are scheduled are firming up their positions in and the Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P., Monday in both Newport and Paw­areas that would prevent a resolu­acting chairman of the department tucket. tion," he said. oftheology. 
News Department Stcpbu.le AJckn Uun1 Cocy Strfto G.llo O.OJIIDic:k Jim Mobao I[Jdby IIDe 1118ut"Ho Arley ...,. ~o Dille G.nob.lk Jim &rDy kodra Motrlll Llluta Ruble ltareaWd>b Goobriclle Arrleb llMe Cronlo 0.0 Gerlkb JdUteroJIIIU BW D. Morrla .._,.Saonloa Vlcld Wodan:yk llae Ann llarJer Jtrudn l>8fty Jaouuy G-Jtarla IIUMmao Cbrla Murpby 1 z.ckSduaatz l!ric:Wold Caocllce Bec:ker Kayko o-n. Heko Gouclnu Allaoy Jtoloezar Cbr!Mopber Nee Dlaoe Schroeder Mllry krJer Terri Dempeey Jobo Grlllln ltMbleeo LaNick Julie Oder Pam Smidt I[Jdby Berry Joe Del'lro IJW lf8rlao Tnaa tuclnnnkl Julie.........,.., Jftll 5edmn<-lu Llam Brennan Marlr. Dnlfem Clody llau joe ...uy CluiiiOopbcr Paullooo Cllft'Strnoo Jacqule Brummel 10m Druorlacbl Bcdt Hdly Sbaoooo Mau...... s ...... Plrorlcckl Grea SCobr Julie ByiJcld Mike Duocan 1trY1o Hear Tncey Mc:C1ookey AliMa Phooka Trlcla SliiCzepck Cbrlodoc Capoolpi Meal!po LIM Marie HeU Cbrla McGuire Ellabctb Porter llonna Uop I[JdbJeeo Carney MlcbKI F......, Lee Herben Martr.IWic:Uuablto I!Ueo l'wydlu Pete Verdi l!d CbeMnut ttmo Pcaroow ltMbleeo H.....,olollchelle Me......., c.rt Pumam JelfUre Tim CWk John PUOM MlcbKI '-neW 0tnm Meyer llqllllcbter Tooy VIlli Hoof These people who signed up to write for the Observer's news department, and everyone else interested In writing news this year are encouraged to attend a brief orientation meeting. These meetings will be: At Notre Dame At Saint Mary's: Lafortune Little Theatre Room 304, Haggar College Center Tuesday at 8 p.m. Wednesday at 7:30p.m.  

Carl O'Neil has been named chair­man of the department ofanthropol­ogy; Roger Schmitz, dean of The College of Engineering, is to be also special assistant for computing and Philip Sloan, chairman ofprogram of liberal studies. 
Associate Dean Roger Skurski of The College of Arts and Letters has been named director of the Center for the Study of Contemporary Society; John VanEngen, director of The Medieval Institute; Registrar Daniel Winicur will serve as dean of administration, and Col. David Woods, chairman of the department of aerospace studies. 
In The College of Arts and Letters new faculty include: Patrick Ander­son and James O'Gara, American studies; Martin Murphy, anthropol­ogy; the Rev. Austin Collins, C.S.C., Barbara Petersen and Lou Waller, art, art history and design and James Collins, communication and theatre. 
Also, Marc Jarsulic, Leonard Rap­ping, Brian Towers and Michael Zalkin, economics; Charlene Avallone, Gerald Bruns, Robert Hughes, Jr., Theresa Krier and Noelle Werge, English; Michael Greany, Frances Hagopian and Suzanne Marilley, government and international studies. 
Other new faculty include: D'Arcy Boulton, Brendan Dooley, Bruce Haight, Christopher Hamlin, Mary Schweitzer and Andrzej Walicki, his­tory. 
Also, Marco Andreatta, Stephen Doty, Mary Kreuzman, Bruno Poizat, Philipp Rothmaler, the Rev. Merwyn Thomas, C.S.C., Simon Thomas, Clarence Wilkerson, Jr., and Fredrico Xavier, mathematics. 
Kevin Bauman, Maureen Boulton and Daniel Sheerin, modern and classical languages; lynne Far­rington, Stewart Kelly, Bonnie Kent, David O'Connor and Philip Quinn, philosophy; Stephen Fallon, Kent Emery Jr. and Rodney Kllcup, program of liberal studies. 
David Cole, Clinton Gabbard and Usa Anne Turner, psychology; Jen­nifer Glass, Mike Keen, and Stephen Turner, sociology. 


Paul Aspan, Harold Attridge, the Rev. Paul Bradshaw, Adela Collins, John Collins, the Rev. Avery Dulles, 
Jr., 
ney, the Rev. Gerald McCool, SJ., the 
in The College of 
Bloomquist, Thomas Bundt, George Catsiapis, Richard Mendenhall, Kevin Scanlon and Robert Schweitzer, finance and business economics; Michael Bowen, Gary Kern, Diptendu Sinha, 
Clayton Smith and James 
Zimarowski, management. 
In The College of Engineering: Roger Davis, Isaac Elishakoff and Shyh-)ye John Pien, aerospace and mechanical engineering; William Krantz and David Leighton, Jr., chemical engineering; Nicholas Carpenter, Stephen Silliman and Billie Spencer, Jr., civil engineering; Daniel Costello, Jr., Raymond Decarlo and Poornachandra Sarang, electrical engineering. 
In The College of Science: Gary Fromm, David Lodge, Joseph O'Tousa and I tam Sulaiman, biologi­cal sciences; Jaime Eyzaguirre, Paul Huber and Pamela McCormack, chemistry; John Losecco and Hans Schleck, physics. 
New faculty members in the Law School are John Attanasio, Richard Duncan, Roger Jacobs, Nanette Moegerle and Joel Newmaqn. 
The Helen Kellogg Institute for In­ternational Studies has added Elena Alvarez, Regis Stephan, Robert Dev­lin, Manuel Garreton, Frances Hagopian, Margaret Keck, luis Pasara and Sylvia Raw. 
Reserve Officer Training Corps additions include Col. David Woods, Air Force commandant; Maj. Bruce Nawoj and Capt. Samuel Gaglio, aerospace studies; John Ehlers, Lt. Michael Knapp and Lt. Roman Murkowski, naval science, and Capt. Anita Dominigo, military science. 
Other newly appointed faculty in­clude Shigero Oishi and Jandhyala Sobhanadri, Radiation Laboratory; John Scheu and David Snyder, Lobund Laboratory and Harriet Baldwin, Center for Continuing Education. 
Also, Michele Gelfman, physical education; Claudia Kselman, Foreign Study Program, and Thomas Lehman, Memorial Ubrary. Also added are Jeannette Sheerin, Fresh­man Writing Program and Desmond Comer, London MBA Program. 
Join the 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
1st General Meeting 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9 
~ 7:Se E•..•••rl•• Aadltorl•• 
0 Holy St. Jude apostle and martyr great in virtur and rich in miracles near kinsman ofJesus Christ. Faltliful lnterceiJIJOr ofall who Invoke your special patronage In time ofneed To you have recoursefrom the depth ofmy heart and humbly be whom God has given such great power to come to my aiJIJistance. Help me In my present and urgent petition. In return 1 promise to make your name 
~own and caiiiJe you to be Invoked. &y three Our Fathers, three Hall Mary's and three Gloria/or nine fdays. Publications must be promised rrayfor 111J and all who Invoke you ald. 
Amen 
This novena has never been known to fall THANK-YOU ST. JUDE. 

The Observer Friday, September 6, 1985 -page 4 
Affair of accused spy admitted during trial of former FBI agent 
LOS ANGELES -A woman testified yesterday she was former FBI agent Richard Miller's lover at the same time he was romantically involved with a Soviet spy, and that he ad­mitted to her he soldclassified docu­ments. 
Marta York of Portland, Ore., testified during Miller's espionage trial that she came to Los Angeles to visit him during the last two weeks ofSeptember 1984. 
She said at the time she visited him, she was unaware he was having an intimate relationship with Svet­lana Ogorodnikov, who has been convicted of spying for the Soviet Union, but he later told her. 
York said she believed Miller was divorced and she was seekinga long­term relationship with him. 
Miller, the first FBI agent ever accused of spying, was a tense and nervous man who poured out his personal problems to her, York said of her two-week visit during which she went to movies and the county fair with him. 
York, a native ofEl Salvador and a resident alien, said she warned him repeatedly that "we were being followed and watched" 
"The last day I told him somebody was taking pictures," she recalled. "He always laughed at me and said I liked to play detective." 
Before she returned to Portland, she said Miller admitted to her he was not divorced and told her he 


It's not the Champs-Elysses, but this mini-cafe to the open area has made this a popular spot for is as close as manyNotre Dame students may come Domers to relax. to life in Paris. The addition oftable and chairsets 
Health officials release guidelines to keep AIDS out of blood supply 
Control for years has considered have had only a single contact, and homosexual or bisexual men with who do not consider themselves 
ATLANTA -In revised guidelines multiple sexual partners to be at in-homosexual or bisexual." aimed at eliminatingAIDS virusfrom creased risk for acquired immune the blood supply, federal health offi­. deficiency syndrome. The FDA stopped short of saying cials recommended yesterday that that any man who has had gay sex is any man who has had sex with anot­But the latest recommendation at increased risk for AIDS, "but we her man even once in the last eight from the Food and Drug Administra­would certainly consider them able years refrain from donating blood. tion, published by the Atlanta-based to be carriers," said Susan Cruzan, a 
The National Center for Disease CDC, applies even to men "who may spokeswoman for the FDA. 
was obsessed with making money. 
She returned home on Sept. 29, she 
said. 
Hours before Miller's arrest on 
Oct. 2, she said she received a col­
lect telephone call from him. 
"He told me he was calling me to 
warn me what had been happening 
before I heard it on the news," she 
said. "He told me he'd been inter­
rogated by the FBI ... he said he'd 
been accused of selling confidential 
material." 
She said Miller also confided he 
failed a lie detector test. 
"I asked him if he did or he didn't 
(sell classified documents). He 
hummed, then he paused, and then 
he said, 'Yes I did, only one."' 
"He said, 'I thought I had a good 
deal,"' she testified. 
She added that in the same con­versation, he confided to her he had been involved with a Russian woman at the same time he had been romancing her. 
She said Miller urged her not to talk to the FBI. 
York said she had known Milh;r as a friend since 1970 and her husband had become particularly friendly with him. When her husband died in June 1984, she said she notified Mil­ler and they renewed their acquain­tance. 
Miller, who is married and the father of eight children, faces a pos­sible life sentence if convicted of . passing secrets to the Soviets through Ogorodnikov. 
Prior to the game, University Food Services will provide a Hawaiian din­
Chairs 
ner for all Notre Dame students. In addition, pizza and

continuedfrom page 1 Coke will be 
available throughout the evening. governments, student government, The music is being supplied by the Student Activities Board, the Stu­WZZP FM-104, one of three spon­dent Activities office and Saint sors of the event. Coca-Cola and Mary's College have become in­Domino's Pizza are also sponsors of volved in the event. the event. 
• FR1SB"EE Fall Ultimate Tournament :• Organizational Meeting •
• 

• Call 3076or 3067 • 
*********************************** 
: Pre-Law Students ! ~ (Any Student Considering Law School) :
* Attend * 
i* The Pre-Law Society General Meeting *t 
* 7:30pm, Tues., Sept. 9, In Eng. Aud. * 
* * 
Jt Dean Waddick will speak on: *
*

i eou,..,.lectlon, applying, ftnanclal aid, •••""planned, elc. i 
;: Sponsored by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Pre-Law Society * Please Bring $4 Membership tee . Freshmen Encouraged
*********************************** 


fULL s•zE FRAME 

• 75" long Couch . 219-233-8176 
• 
Easy To Open . 

• 
Queen Size Available .Tues.-Sat. 10-4 


I":\ Ifutons naturally \j# 
232 South Michigan South Bend, IN 46601 

What makes 


Sundayspecial? 
One call, three friends•••and our$7.99Sunday special. 
One call to DOMINO'S PIZZA® gets you our Sunday special-a 16-inch, single topping pizza for just $7.99. It's a great way to get together with three other students and enjoy a hot, custom-made pizza for about $2each! 
And Domino's Pizza Delivers® Free. In 30 minutes or l~ss, or you get $3 off your order. 
So make Sunday special with our $7.99 Sunday special. It's available all evening this Sunday. Only from Domino's Pizza®. 


Call us: 
277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave.. Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
/J/J
C(ltL ,,~ 

{)J¢ rt';11.
()JJeA 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. No coupon necessary. Just request the Sunday speciaL '16-inch pizza generally serves 3-5 people. Limited delivery area.© 1985 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS® FREE. 
~--------------~~---------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, September 6, 1985 -page 5 

RENT BY SEMESTER 
Color TV Microwave Ovens $70/semester $50Isemester 
~color City 259-7661 



YOGrS YOGURT 
Open untill0:OOpm daily (/· 
~ 'J 
~~ 
~,~'b' ~ FREE SAMPLES 

q 
APPhoto

Just me and Hu, babe
St. Rd. 23, NE Comer Ironwood 

Former President Richard Nixon and Chinese compound yesterday. Nixon is visiting China thisAcross From Martins Communist Party leader Hu Yaobang met inside week as a guest ofthe Chinese government. Peking's high-security Zbongnanhai governmemt 
************************************ Federal deficit and trade balance 
i~ o.~o\9 * a
cited as priorities by congressman 
i o~ 0~ o.e i AMOCiatedPress Africa. That legislation has not yet Reagan has expressed opposition cleared Congress, but a final vote is to trade legislation that some
~as~ o'\to ;~ 

WASHINGTON House expected within several days. Democrats favor, such as a stiff tariff 
'ileco ~e\\ o~ ; 
i 
Republican Leader Robert Michel, in Michel said he believes Reagan on Imported goods from some a fresh sign of trouble for President remains very popular personally in countries. But Michel said he was Reagan's "fall offensive," said yester­the country. But the veteran GOP hoping the administration couldit '\)"' Sunday, Sept. 8, day there is more sentiment among leader's assessment of the rising "get on the offensive" on the issue the voters for reducing federal sentiment for trade legislation with a series of administrative steps, t 1O:OOalll·5:00pm * deficits and the nation's record trade roughly paralleled an observation perhaps by the end of the week. imbalance than for overhauling the on Wednesday by House Speaker Trade and economic matters ~ * tax system. Thomas P. O'Neill, and also was in aside, House Republicans, picking~ ~ Golden Gavel Auction House ** "There's much more concern keeping with the feeling reportedly up the traces of legislative respon­
about those issues than (about) tax expressed at a private, morning sibilities, spent the morning discuss­
t (Behind Lincolnway East McDonalds) : 
reform. There's no way around it," meeting of House Democratic ing terrorism and other foreignt 1905 Goodsen Court · : Michel said in his first comments to whips. policy matters with Secretary of reporters since returning to Was­State George Shultz. 
~ * 
~ * hington from the month-long Con­At that session, according to Rep. Several Republicans said later ~ * gressional recess. Terry Bruce, lawmakers told O'Neill Shultz gave no hint of whether t $2 Admission-FREE Record : In addition, Michel concurred in and other Democratic leaders they Reagan intends to veto legislation 
predictions by Democrats that the heard more complaints about trade imposing sanctions against thet with each paid admission : House is likely to override a possible issues from constituents than any ot­white-ruled government of South ~ * veto on legislation imposing sanc­her issue during their month away Africa, and the secretary declined ~ * tions against white-ruled South from the capital. comment after the session. 
E.F. Hutton promises to reorganize structure after legal problems 
AS80Ciatcd Press "It was a management failure, not an ethical failure," Bell said. 
WASHINGTON-Former Attorney But he said there was wrongdoing General Griffin Bell blamed lax by a group of middle managers who management for allowing E.F. Hut· were given immunity from prosecu­ton & Co. to slip into legal trouble tion by the Justice Department in an over its banking practices. The firm unsuccessful effort to trace im· said yesterday it would implement proper check overdrafting practices Bell's recommendations for an ex· to corporate headquarters. tensive reorganization. 
lbree top officials are leaving cor· The report recommends that six porate headquarters and a company regional managers · be assessed statement said the board ofdirectors penalties ranging from J2';,000 to will be· restructured to ensure that a J50,000 with the money being paid majority of the members are from to a charity, and the firm said this outside the firm. will be done. The six are among 
In a report and 90-minute news those given immunity. conference on his three-month in­Hutton chairman Robert Fomon vestigation, Bell drew a picture of a hired Bell to conduct an internal in­corporate giant with so little control vestigation after the firm pled guilty from the top that it had no way to on May 2 to 2,000 counts ofwire and It's pretty hard not to like an Army you 'II also receive all the prestige, privileges detect wrongdoin~ by several of its mail fraud in connection with bank
Rare Scholarship. • and respect that go with being a leader in to­
middle managers. overdrafting that the Justice Depart­just look at what it covers: full tuition, day'sArmy. 
It also was a picture of a firm so ment said cheated hundreds ofbmks, lab fees. Plus, it pays you up to $1,000 And don't forget, the Army Nurse eager to maximize the Interest ear­banks out of millions ofdollars in in­
each school year it's in effe(;t. Corps is part ofa worldwide organization. 
nings on its huge daily cash flow that terest on Hutton accounts.
But what we think you'lllike best Which means you'll have the opportunity to abuses were practically invited. 
about our scholarship is the commitment. work in diffe_rent cities around the country. 
"The absence of controls is par­The report said just over a quarterBecause it leads to a commission in the Army And different countries around the world. 
ticularly noticeable given Hutton's of the 397 banks that may have suf­Nurse Corps (ANC) after graduation. Without losing seniority or benefits. 
Intense desire during 1980-82 to fered interest losses have signaledAs an Army nurse, you'll belong to So make your commitment to nursing maximize interest income ... and the their intention to file: claims for res­one of the largest, most COIJlprehensive health really pay off. Begin your future in the Army knowledge of senior Hutton titution, and Bell said he believes the care teams in the world. Training on state­Nurse Corps. And that begins with Army management that substantial inter­J8 million fund Hutton has reserved of-the-art equipment. And ~g the latest Rare. 
est income could be generated for restitution will be more than
techniques. For more information about scholarship through ·bank overdraftlng," the enough.
An Army nurse is an Army officer, opportunities, contact the Army Rare Pro­
report said. Bell, attorney general under Presi­too. So along with professional recognition, fessor of Military Science on your campus. 
Bell said, however, that his Inves­dent Carter, said he could not fault lnterated7 CaD 
tigators were unable to link the Justice Department for granting wrongdoing to top New York of­immunity to some employees in an ficers "from a standpoint of attempt to trace wrongdoing to the 
ARMY ROTC. Capt. Domingo 
at239-6264 
criminality." top. 


-------~--~---~----~------~­
-

The Observer Friday, September 6, 1985 -page 6 

the "Wizard of Oz." Ltke Dorothy, Engle calls Kansas his home. 
'Spectacular' pictures promised of recently located Titanic wreck 
Woods Hole Deep Submergence position of the ship and the exact Laboratory, which is headed by Bal­depth of the find. But we heard 
WOODS HOLE, Mass. -Resear­lard. "If he were to return, it would aircraft were in the vicinity. I don't chers who found the wreck of the be to continue documentation and think there is anything we can do Titanic headed for home yesterday, not as exploitation." about that." with the chiefscientist promising he He said Woods Hole would act to 
was bringing back"spectacular" film Robert Spindel, head of the protect the Titanic only if someone from the expedition. Woods Hole department of ocean were to try to salvage it. "We'd have 
The Navy-owned research ship engineering, said numerous ques­to appeal to a higher authority to ask Knorr, operated by Woods Hole tions must be answered before anot­them that the Titanic remain where Oceanographic Institution, was her visit to the wreck is scheduled. it is, as it is." scheduled to dock Monday. "Mainly, it's a matter ofsafety. But John Eaton, historian of the 
Officials said Robert Ballard, chief also it's a question ofwhat you could Titanic Historical Society, said the scientist on the mission, will try to learn about it," he said, adding that a site should be "protected by some arrange a return trip, possibly next possible reason for inspecting the international group and be kept free 
summer, to explore the sunken ship in a manned vessel would be ofall marauders." · luxury liner in a manned submer­the chance to learn more about cor­Filming since the wreck was sible known as the Alvin. rosion and preservation. found Sunday was done by a video 
Woods Hole officials said there is "We don't know that much about camera aboard the Argo, an un­concern the future may bring the preservation of things at the manned submersible developed by scavengers to the wreck site, about depths of the sea floor. People all Ballard. 560 miles offNewfoundland. over the world are thinking about Ballard said the explorers had not 
"Ballard is very concerned with using it for disposal, particularly of seen the stern of the ship. They the exploitation of the Titanic. nuclear waste," he said. believe they located it last night Wreck-ruining destroys ar­Asked how Woods HQle could with sonar, "but it was in a very dif­chaeological finds," said William safeguard the Titanic, he said, ficult area and we just weren't able Marquet, senior engineer at the "We've tried not to release the exact to maneuver into it." 
Bruce Springsteen fans give blood for chance to attend Indy concert 
Associated Press At other radio stations in In­
dianapolis, phone lines were busy as 

INDIANAPOLIS -Fans of Bruce listeners tried to claim tickets. Springsteen donated blood, kept John Wetherbee, program direc­telephone lines humming and doled tor at WNAP-FM, said his station was out large wads ofcash yesterday in a giving away 30 pairs of tickets to lis­last-minute scramble for a chance to teners who called in last weekend to see the rock star's so\d-out concert register for drawings. The contest at the Hoosier Dome. hadabout 500 entries, five times the 
The New Jersey rocker, who usual number for a similar drawing, played to two packed houses in In­Wetherbee said. dianapolis' Market Square Arena in The station gave away 20 pairs of January, is scheduled to take the tickets Wednesday to listeners with stage before 52,000 people at the the best banners welcoming downtown football stadium tonight. Springsteen to Indianapolis, Wether­
All $17.50 tickets for the 'COncert bee said. were sold in less than six hours on Aug. 22, but yesterday, many fans The rock station also was en­were taking advantage of every op­couraging its listeners to donate portunity to get Springsteen tickets. money or canned goods to food 
The Central Indiana Regional banks, charities that Springsteen of­Blood Bank and radio station WENS ten helps when he visits a city. used four pairs ofSpringsteen tickets One WNAP spot said "Bruce to lure donors to a special blood Gives, You Should, Too," a reference drive. to Springsteen's $25,000 donation 
Martha Sakai, WENS promotion to Gleaners Food Bank of In­director, said approximately 150 dianapolis in January, Wetherbee people donated blood in the first said. seven hours of the promotion, which ended last night. The Across town, FM station WFBQ previous best for a station­continued to give away 25 pairs of sponsored blood drive was 25 tickets set aside for listener promo­donors in four hours, she said. tions. The album-rock station also 
"We had a lot of first-time announced it would play only donors," said Sakai. "Basically we are Springsteen music during the early­trying to get people jn the habit of evening hours before the concert giving blood, not just for Bruce today and would feature the singer­Springsteen." songwriter's music throughout the 
She said the names ofdonors, who weekend, said promotion director had to be at least 1 7 years old, went Pam Cohen. into a drawing for the tickets last night. "He represents such an American 
The station set aside one pair of image that I think everybody is tickets for the promotion, and three charged up about the concert, more other pairs were donated by lis­so than for others,"Cohen said of teners after the promotion was an­Springsteen, whose "Born in the nounced, Sakai said. USA" album has been among the na­
She said the promotion was timely tion's bestsellers for more than a because the regional blood bank had year. run out ofsome types ofblood Wed­Ticket giveaways for the concert nesday night. weren't confined to Indianapolis. 
KARATE KID ShowingSeptember6 tlaru 7 7:00,9:15, 11:30 In The Engineering Auditorium SAB  

SunshinePromotions Present  


SepteMber 6 
8:00p.m. 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
A11 seats reserved $13 .00 
Tickets available at the Century Center Box Office, Night Winds (Niles and Mishawaka), J.R.'s (La Porte) and Supersounds (Elkhart). 
...Don't missthe hottest 

·GEORGE RICKEY IN SOUTH BEND· 
An exhibition of sculpture and graphics by the internationally renowned artist George Rickey 
Sept.8-0ct.20 
RECEPTION: 1-4pm 
SUNDAY SEPT. 8, 1985 at the ART CENTER in South Bend 
EXHIBITION LOCATIONS: 
• 
Snite Museum of Art 

•Art 
Center 

• 
Saint Mary's College 

•Indiana 
University at South Bend 


TOURS : Bus Tours 
darh half hour 
FILM: 
• PORTRAIT OF AN ARTIST • 
1:30 2=30 
3:30 


----------·---------------------------------­

~i~~~_() i_Ilt________________
Fr-id-ay_,s_ep-te-mb-er_6_,1_98-5--p-ag-e7 
Wanted: more tickets 
Next Saturday l 0 I, 70 I screaming fans will fill Michigan Stadium to see the 
Irish take on the Wolverines. Only slightly more than 200 ofthese people will be 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
The University of Michigan alotted Notre Dame 6,000 tickets to the contest. In turn, the Notre Dame administration sold approximately 75 percent of those tickets to alumni. Administrators, football staff and players received 22 percent. Three pt·rcent are offered to students. 
For the majority ofstudents left in South Bend, get comfortable. Not one ofthe 5,000 tickets the University was allotted for the Sept. 28 Purdue game has been designated for students. Again, almost three-quarters of the tickets arc for alumni. 
Students arc given first priority for tickets for every home game. For this reason, administrative logic rules that it is only fair that alumni get first crack at gan1t·s played in their region. But fairness is not the only issue at hand. Ticket Managt-r Mike Bobinski has said that to insure alumni support, both financial and other kinds, they must be offered tickets. 
As part of the Notre Dame family, alumni deserve the opportunity to support their alma mater through football games; however, this right should not over­shadow that of tuition-paying students. A more equitable division oftickets must he reached. 
At a time when the Notre Dame mystique is being challenged on the football tlcld and questiont·d in the stands, students should not be so unfairly denied the chant·c to show their enthusiasm for the Irish. 
When the ticket office reviews its policy on away games and possibly proposes changes, as Bobinski has said it will, let's hope the administration con­sidt.·rs more than 200 of its students. 
-The Observer 


Saint Mary's speaks out 
Now that you arc all <.'ompletely sick of being welcomed back and a~ked how your summer was, welcome back! How was your summer? I thought I would take this chance to tell you a little bit about who Saint Mary's Stu­dent Government is and what we have been doing. First of all, we are your student representatives, who are working hard to answer all of your questions and look at all aspe<.·L~ of student life. "Ibese areas include health services, athletics, campus ministry, residence life, public relations, special programs, food service, security and develop­ment. We are meeting with representatives from all areao; to bring them your suggestions and questions, and to bring theirs to you. 
Anne Marie Kollman 
guest column 

"lllerc are two hoards within Student Government. "lbe Board of Governance, chaired by myself, consisL~ of hall and class presidents and various commissioners, and deals with any issues raised on campus. The Programming Board, chaired by Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs .Jeanne Heller, consists of the hall and class vice presidents and 

Doonesbury 


NORMALlY, TH&RE-'5 A lONG 

GR13AT 5130J~ HUH? PJAITING U!iT FOR A 010/C& 
7HREC OEAD/301-T LOCKS! RENTAL UK& 7HI5, 8IfTI UKE 
PJHO Nea:>5 A IXXJRMAN~ 
CDM/3 ON IN AND CH£0<. /TOUT' 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College. II does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adm1mstrat1on of e1ther mstitution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible. Unsigned editonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
various commtsstoners. It deals with all 
programs that make up our activities calendar 
every month. Another branch of Saint Mary's 
student government is the Student Academic 
Council, chaired by Vice President of 
Academic Affairs Julie Harmon. It deals with 
curriculum and major requirements. This 
year, we have begun a Saint Mary's-Notre 
Dame liaison Committee which will deal with 
communication between the two schools. We 
also have representatives of each school on 
both councils. 

The freshman class this year is larger than any in the recent past. I am counting on these freshmen to produce new ideas and support them. Anyone with questions or suggestions should feel free to stop by any time at our offices on the third floor ofthe Haggar College Center or attend any of our meetings. The challenge for all Saint Mary's students is to take advantage of what interests them and to speak up ifwhat they want is not offered. 
I think I can speak for everyone on Student Government by saying that we are excited for this year and are asking for your support. We are happy with the developments so far and hope our success will continue. · 
Anne Marie Kollman is the student body president ofSaint Mary's College. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ...................................Keith Harrison Jr News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Lipo 



P.O.Box Q 
Responses to Safranek 
DearEditor: 
Safranek's column, which appeared Sep­tember 2, argued two major points. First, Americans who protest against this country's involvement in the policy of apartheid are frauds and second, we are only protesting to ease our social consciences of the burden of America's history ofslavery. 
Safranek grudgingly admits that American protesters are promoting some value, his term is democracy. He goes on to say, however, that American protesters are two-faced be­cause they are ignoring the oppression in­flicted upon the people of Afghanistan, Vietnam and Eastern Europe. Safranek does not have his facts correct. I hear outrage over the other injustices enumerated by Safranek from the very people who protest the policy of apartheid. 
Perhaps Safranek objects to the methods used by those in this country who oppose apartheid, but America's involvement in South Africa is largely economic, and the best tools for fighting apartheid in a country where our presence is so pervasive are economic tools such as divestiture and boycotts. 
Safranek further suggests that the moral force is taken from the argument against apar· theid because our government will suffer to sit down with oppressive governments. Con­frontation is the solution that Safranek seeks. Yet we confront unjust governments every day. Just what kind of confrontation would Safranek like to see? Nuclear? American and Americans are not silent to other injustices, but they do recognize that we cannot just nuke them away. Changing governments aJ. ways takes time. We must use those tools available to us that are both moral and ef. fective. In South Africa it is economic tools, in other countries it is diplomacy. 
Finally, Safranek says that Americans who are protesting apartheid are merely relieving their conscience of the guilt of past slavery. Such a suggestion is perhaps the most disgust­ing thing I have heard in the war ofwords over apartheid. We who are against apartheid (unhappily, I do not count Safranek among us) are truly dedicated to the idea that all women and men have certain rights. When we see our government, our industries and businesses promoting a government that denies these rights, we do what we can to protest, to in­fluence and to change. Those against apar­theid are motivated by a deep conviction that an men and women, wherever they are, are entitled to the enjoyment and exercise of these rights. In what does Safranek believe? By what is he motivated? 
Herb Tanner Notre Dame Law Student 
Garry Trudeau 
DearEditor:  
The September 2 editorial on apartheid  
protestors by Steve Safranek was an effort to  
put the burden of proof for change on the  
poor and least articulate, as well as their adv­ 
ocates. That may not have been its intention,  
but the article provides yet another argument  
against striking out and protesting what Is  
wrong in this world.  
The article seems conflicted even in its con­ 
ception of wrong. Speaking mystically of  
"valuable principles," it belittles apartheid  
protestors and In fact says that they lack con­ 
victions for justice. I applaud anyone who  
refuses to ignore indecency when It occurs  
before their eyes. It seems we help no cause  
by doing nothing. Unfortunately, the article  
seems to praise those who choose inaction  
and indifference over a life of conviction. It  
claims that protestors of South Africa's  
policies must justify the oppression of the  
Soviet Union. While this might be another way  
of calling liberals commies, I really doubt it.  
The effect, however, is no less paralyzing. We  
cannot hesitate to do what we can, just be­ 
cause our lives are too brief to end all in­ 
justice. There is time to speak out against the  
Soviet Union, but I think we have to start with  
our own country's problems. That might  
show more of the "consistency" emphasized  
in the article.  
The most pernicious argument in the ar­ 
ticle is that apartheid protestors, devoid of  
conviction, just speak up because it feels  
good. This seems to mean that the protestors  
feel free to point out the wrongs ofothers be·  
cause they consider themselves blameless.  
Doing so does not require much courage or  
thought. This article is not, as we may expect,  
an appeal for more attention to this nation's  
domestic problems, for example, mal­ 1  
nourished, hollow-eyed children in South  1  
Bend or migrant workers in Southern Mic­ .,  
higan. Instead, the article suggests that we  1  
turn our attention to the easily listed evils of  
the Soviet Union.  
This suggestion does not reek of principle  
or courage. I think if we are responsible for  
anything in the world, it is our own part of it  
first · the part we can most directly affect. It is  
true that South Africa Is far away. But the  
South Africa protests are just the beginning,  
not the end, as the article says. Emerson wrote  
that each generation has to choose between  
"truth or repose. Take which you please," he  
said, "you can never have both." The protes­ 
tors have made their choice, and it is not one  
ofcomfortable repose.  
Franklin M.jobnson  
Notre Dame Law Student  


Quote of the day 
"Every form of refuge has its price." 
The Eagles (1972) 
Lyin' Eyes 

Operations Board 
Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan Systems Manager ................. Mark B. Johnson Production Manager....................... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 







Accent 
The boss ofND 
"people really win on MlV!" 
Just ask Kevin Herbert of 
Stanford Hall, the winner ofMTV's 
"Millions forMS" Rock-Alike con­
test. Though the last memory most 
ofus have of Herbert is his winning 
impersonation ofBruce Springsteen 
in the contest, his victory last spring 
was only the beginning ofa 
whirlwind summer affair with the 
rock scene. 
In addition to appearing on na­
tional television, Herbert was 
awarded a summer internship with 
MlV in New York. 
Herbert worked primarily in the 
marketing department, concentrat­
ing on promotional projects for 
various concerts. For example, he 
helped to ship tickets, buttons, 
T-shirts, and other paraphernalia for 
the Kenny Loggins concert tour to 
those radio stations promoting the 
concert for MlV. While the ex­
perience he gained was invaluable, 
Herbert says that "... it was the 
people that I worked with that 
made the job so great. They were 
really knowlegeable and taught me 
a great deal about the business of 
marketing and promotional work." 

Aside from working, Herbert also performed at two ofNew York's most prestigious clubs, Studio 54 and the Hard Rock Cafe. While "Born in the U.S.A." remained his trademark, Herbert did manage to perfect a performance of Springsteen's "Dancing in the Dark" as well. The talented sophomore was also interviewed by "Entertainment Tonight," The New York Daily News, and the New York Post, in addition to appearing on MTV's birthday celebration, where he met such stars as Glenn Frey and Simon LeBon. 
Sadly enough, Herbert was unable to meet his mentor, but MS officials are still trying to arrange a meeting between Springsteen and his youthful counterpart. 
Herbert is still performing though, and will be heading the Rock-Alike contest for this year. When asked if this experience would lead to any further career in singing or television, he only laughed and said, "It's a great op­portunity, and I'm going to keep on performing Bruce, but it's time to 

Sherry Green 
features writer 
------------·----­
give someone else a chance to be the best." 
Back at Notre Dame, he still listens to Springsteen, and proudly displays his pictures of Nina Black­wood and Martha Quinn (with himself) on his bulletin board. One freshman, having looked at the photographs, failed to recognize either "VJ", but when asked who was in the picture with them, replied, "I'm no fool, I know when I see Bruce Springsteen!" 
The Rock-Alike contest and Tommy Shaw concert that followed were fllmed and scheduled to be aired during the Memorial Day weekend. Because ofediting dif­ficulties withJerry Kramer Produc­tions, however, it was delayed until late July, when MS officials decided to move the concert's premiere to the first weekend ofSeptember in order to coincide with the begin­ning of the MS fund-raising conven­tion. 
The Rock-Alike contest and Tommy Shaw concert will be shown at the Senior Club on Satur­day, September 7, at a party open to all classes. At 10 p.m. the concert will be aired; afterwards, Herbert will give a live performance to show once again that here at Notre Dame, Rruce is "The Boss!" 
Top: Kevin Herbert, winner ofthe MS Society's Rock-Alike, backstage at the Hard Rock Cafe with the drum of Max Weinberg, drummer for Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band; Above: Thor Hanson, president ofthe National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Steve Garvey, National Campaign Chairman, and Herbert at Shea Stadium on Steve Garvey Day; Below left: Herbert on stage at the Hard Rock Cafe 


~· ~--~-------------­

Friday, September 6, 1985 -page 8 -9 

Would we dare to walk this earth as saints? 
-
the only world we've got right now. too. Some of them are among the down a notch because wholesome­Rev. 
I want to enjoy it, without becom­saints with a small "s," breathing the ness has asserted itself. A speech is ing its victim. The Lord said I could graces that defeat the darkness, the not a crusade, but you have aRobert inherit the whole globe, and still heartbeat ofa tired Church. Before feeling that decency is alive and lose my soul. What good would that you laugh at them, look at the faces, well, despite the odds, as long as 
be, He wanted to know. and see your grandparents. The young people stand up in support of country is tired too. Young people it. 
Griffin 
Letters to a lonely God 
I'm not putting some heavy trip 

could give it the strength ofeagle's 
on you. Even at twenty, you know The young heroes ofa campus
wings to lift it over the swamps of
what integrity and honesty are; and are not necessarily the best atten­
Father Hesburgh is one ofthe few like something it would be a indifference. 
your conscience is only a little dants of Mass or the students who
people I know who could use the mistake to miss out on. 
shabby, though you may have taken Comparing generations is a waste keep busy with projects. I wouldline: "The only real tragedy is not Saints, as I hear the word applied 
shortcuts over goodness. Think of oftime. When I was young, they most admire the kid with Ideals,being a saint," without sounding by Hesburgh, are good, hard the best, most caring and sensitive were fighting World War II. My who has the guts to say to anyonepreachy. When I hear him say, in working, self-sacrificing people, person you know. Ask yourself: "If father grew up during World War I. making a bad mistake to please thethat old-fashioned phrase ofhis, "I deeply into love and truth: faithful this person is a winner, am I, by Your father, perhaps, had his war in crowd: "I don't think you knowthink the guy's a saint," saintliness doctors, honest lawyers, parents comparison, a loser who should be !(orca, and your uncle or brother in what you are doing." The rules of seems suddenly re-defined as a kind who break their necks for their ashamed ofhimself?" Vietnam. Are we better off now the kingdom ofGod are interiorofgoodness that has a lot ofclass. families. The saints in the technical than we were ten, 20, or 40 years rules. You know who lives by them lie makes you aware ofgiants sense -those with shrines in the ago, because we are living in when you see a show ofclass. A walking on the earth. in touch with churches, to whom novenas are peacetime? Sufficient for the age is show ofclass is not religion; it's the secrets ofGod. Because they made -often sound like freaks who ''It's a pity that we the evil thereof. Now, however, I better than religion, because were humble enough to walk on missed out on the fun ofbeing alive. 
read in the papers that the sickles religion is only a teacher pointingtheir knees, you thought they were That's probably because when their are not taking a long are corrupting the children. Our the way. A show ofclass comes puny like everyone else. Hearing stories were told, the details got look at life, separa­cities are like the great trees you from character, defined as noblessehim, it seems okay to want to be a exaggerated. I want to think well of see along the roadside, diseased by oblige, which lights up the worldsaint; it seems enviable to give the them; but it doesn't matter, because ting the truths from the great, gray nests ofweb that the more wonderfully than a miracle. 
center ofyour soul to Christ, be­I'm not their judge. However, they 
the lies; and doing it moths have built in the branches so 
t·ause belonging to Him is a status are not the saints I have foremost in I don't know where character
that they can eat the leaves. Only
symbol qualifying you as a winner. my mind when I say it is a shame comes from; it's probably partly
as lovers wishing to fire and the amputation oflimbs 
Father Hesburgh's list is not just the that we are all not becoming saints. genetic, partly grace, partly com·
will make the trees healthy again. 
official catalogue of the canonized. It's a pity that we are not taking a serve the world mon sense ripening into wisdom.
Evil has been building its nests 
lie may be talking about anyone, long look at life, separating the Even if there were no God, it would
without being among us for a long time. You don't 
great or humble: a migrant worker trlllhs from the lies; and doing it as serve you like the voice ofGod
have to be a fundamentalist to 
or a German chancellor. He lets you lovers wishing to serve the world deceived by its urging the duties oflove. The
wonder ifthe devil is bringing us to 
see that you don't have to go without being deceived by its illu­Church helps build character, as it
the end of the ages when God will
around looking like Mother Teresa sions. The world is too real and illusions. " supports the lessons learned in a 
torch the planet, ifwe don't do it 
to be on an effectivt' wavelength close to our fingertips for us to good home. Character is only the
first ourselves. 

with the will ofGod. Father lies­pretend it is a passing show, not street name for something lovely burgh is in touch with a lot of worth spitting on. Mystics may say: Only a tedious preacher would Every once in a while, an award­that gives us our identity as people. Some of them sell "Remember, man, that you are dust; have the nerve to tell a campus full winning youngster will stand up at a children ofGod, like candles newspapers in the Beirut airport. and into dust you will return." I'll of bright, ambitious students that it banquet or a commencement, and shining in the darkness. Father Otht·rs are freedom fighters in an say it too, with great conviction, would be a mistake not to become a say: "I believe in God. I honor my Hesburgh, mentioning the sainlJI he army ofliberation. Others plant when I've been to heaven, to see saint. Who then should I tell? A father and mother by accepting the has met, is saying, I think, that you grass under his office window. the face ofGod. In the meantime, as convent full of nuns? They already Gospel that they taught me." Then, can identify them easily as the When, in praise, Hesburgh, says Thoreau said, "One world at a know it. The Catholics going to it seems, a shudder ofgratitude children ofGod, and that maybe we about a secretary, "The woman is a time," even at my advanced age. Mass on Sunday morning? I've got goes through the moral structure of miss the point oflife ifour paternity saint," sanctity sounds very classy, The world's in tough shape, but it's news for you: many ofthem know it the world. Wickedness is taken is ambiguous. 

will be a OJ and plenty ofrefreshments. In case ofrain, the tournament will take place at the ACC. 
•Break the record tonight! All are encouraged to participate in musical 
chairs at Green Field in order to break the Hoard presents "Karate Kid". Starring 
•"lhis weekt·nd the Student Activities 
current record of ';,060 held by the State Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita, this film 
University of New York at Albany. Follow­portrays a boy's personal triumph 
ing this event, a special Hawaiian dinner amongst his peers. The movie also reveals 
will be served at Green Field. Free pizza the pt·rsonal sacrific.:es that the teenager 
and coke will be provided throughout the must make in ortkr to master the art of 
evening. Register berween 3 and ';:1 ';p.m. karate. Tkkets are SI. ';0 for the showings 
for the event which begins at ';:I'; p.m. at 7, 9,: I';, and I I tonight and Saturday The game will begin with 100 fewer 
._.._..,_...,.....,.....,..,,...,.....,.....,..,,...,.....,.....,..........,.......,_....__....,...,._______ chairs than people. In each round 100
night at the Engineering Auditorium. people will be eliminated. When only 100

exhibition features the achievements of Showing tonight is "Despair" at the 
remain, two chairs will be pulled at each 
one remarkable artist in the setting ofhis Annenburg Auditorium. "Ibis story con­stop, until a winner is declared. The
birthplace. cerns a mild little man who is driven to winner will receive a color TVRickey was born in South Bend in 1907; 
Art

murder by his own delusions. 'lbe movie 
he moved to Scotland in 1913, but draws a disturbing picture ofpre-Nazi 
returned to the United States to begin a Germany, ln whic.:h Hermann, a Russian 
career in painting and sculpting. His exile, watches his chocolate factory go to •"lbe city-wide exhibit George Rickey sculptures are shown in numerous well­Music ruin in the worldwide depression. The in South Bend will open Sunday with a known public museums. tickets are S3 for the 7:30p.m. and 9:4'; public reception in the Warner Gallery of Rickey's works will be installed at four 
p.m. showings. 
the Art Center from 1 to 4 p.m. This locations in the South Bend area: the Art Center, Indiana University at South Bend, •listen to the sounds of Maze with Saint Mary's, and the Suite Museum ofArt. special guests Rene and Angela at the 
Holiday Star Theater tonight, tomorrow and Sunday. Rene and Angela's current hit, "Save Your Love For I," is sure to be among the songs performed. The shows start at 8 p.m. Friday, 7:30 and 11 p.m. Saturday, and 7:30p.m. Sunday. Tickets


~--M_i_s_c·---~-t---~:l 

are available at the Holiday Star Theater in Merrillville for S16.9';. 
•All are invited to the Senior Alumni Club (Senior Bar)Saturday night to see the MTV videotape oflast year's Tommy Shaw concert at Notre Dame. The event 

L..-M_a_s_~s----~ikJ
will feature a live band from 9 p.m to 1 a.m., and Notre Dame's Kevin Herbert, winner oflast year's Rock-Alike, will 

impersOnate Bruce Springsteen. Admis­The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart .......,......._, sion is free and no ID is required. Church this weekend will be: Father Andre Leveille at 5 p.m. :..;;;·;,... .Come on out and cheer your favorite (Saturday night vigil). 
team at the First AnnualVolleyball Father George Wiskirchen at 9 a.m. Tournament, held by Lyons Hall on Father Andre Leveille at 10:30 a.m. Saturday at 1 0 a.m. on Green Field. There Father Andre Leveille 12:15 p.m. 
"Karate Kid'~ showing this weekend at the Engineering Auditorium 

I­
Friday, September 6, 1985 -page 10
Sports Briefs 
Women's sports competitions in softball 
soccer, tennis, golfand running (5K) will be part ofRun, Jane, Run. a woinen-in-sports weekend, which will be held by the YWCA Sept. I ~ 
The off-campus football teamwill be pracrk­through Sept. I 5. Information and entry forms will be availabk ing today at 3 p.m. on Green Field. Anyone who is interested rna) today at the NVA office in the ACC.-The Observer attend. For more information, call 272-0416. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will be meeting on Sunday at 
The ND Women's Cross Country Club 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Anyone who is interested. includ­will be meeting for practice today at 4:30p.m. at the main circle. ing those who signed up for the club at activities night, should at Anyone who is interested may attend. For more information. call tend. -The Observer Mary Beth at 277-1983, Julia at 283-2720, Nancy at 283-4222 or Kathleen at 283-3873. -The Observer 
200 Michigan football tickets will be offered 
for sale to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students next week. Anyone
The ND indoor and outdoor track who is interested may sign up for a lottery today between 1 p.m. and teams will be meeting on Wednesday at 4:30p.m. in the football 4:30p.m. at the OBUD desk on the first floor of LaFortune. Lottery auditorium in the ACC. All prospective team members must attend. winners will be posted on Sunday, and each winner will be allownl The Observer to purchase one or two tickets. -The Observer 
A Northern Shaolin Kung Fu class wm be The ND hockeyteam will be meeting on Monda\ .II 
offered soon. Exercises, self-defense, techniques and forms from the: 5 p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC. All players should at Northe~n Sil Lum Dragon style will be taught. Anyone who is in­tend. -The Obsen1er terested may attend a demonstration and meeting on Saturday at 
6:30 p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial Building. For more: see BRIEFS, page 11information, call David at 283-1766. -The Observer 
Golf 
continuedfrom page 16 
beer, aswell as Coach Digger Phelps, will play. 
Athletic Director emeritus Ed­ward "Moose" Krause and former coach Ara Parseghian will serve as golf commissioners and handle the rules, scoring and awards. Numerous prizes, including cars, trips, and golf clubs, will be given away to the amateurs who are con­tributing $1,000 a piece to play with a celebrity. 
The events will begin with an in­formal celebrity dinner Sunday night at the Century Center. The dinner, open to the public at S12.50 per plate, will include door prizes, a band, and a chance to rub elbows with some big names in sports. 
A golf clinic given by professional golfers Mike Souchak and Carol Mann will precede the shotgun start at noon on Monday, and a $lOO-per­plate dinner in the Monogram Room of the ACC will conclude the fes­tivities Monday night. 
Plans for a bigger and better event are already in the works for next year's tournament, which may be held earlier in the summer. 

The Ohserr·er ~Oirl' Dam<· offin·. I<Katnl on till' thm.l floor of l..tl'oriUJll' Studl'nt <.ent.-r. a<Tepr-da"ifinl adn-rti,ing from'! .1 111 umil 1 p m . .\lond.tl through l·rillal' The Ohserr·<'r ~ainl .\I an·, olfi<<'. lm.tlnl on till' third floor ol 
Haggar Co!leg<· <.entn. an l"PI' <la"itinl, from I.!.~~~ p m una d -~ p m .\lon­lla\· though hill;\\ lkalllint· il>r nn.HI.I\ da,"linl' i' -~ p m .-\II cla'"'"'ll' 
mu't h<· pr<·paill. either in per.,on or h,· mail.< l1.trgc '' lii<Tnh per lJ\l' chara<·­t"r' er <.lay. 





Classifieds 
REWARO-REWARO-REWARDIII LOST: DESPERATE! I NEED 10 GA'S ~OR PLEASE HELP-I NEED 3 G.A.'S TO LONDONERS-SPRING 85 ..COOKOUT OLYMPUS Autofocus Camera last Sal. NAVY GAME!$$$ PLEASE CALL JULIE THE ARMY GAME OCT. 11 AND I AT TR'S THIS SATURDAY. SEPT. 7. 3
J NOTICES FOR SALE
night (8131) at N.D. Apts. party. I will pay 284-4317. G.A.'S TO MSU OR MISSISSIPPI. IF pm-7 pm. $3 to Laura-318 PW, Pattl·314 big bucks for its return or info leading to its YOU CAN HELP, CALL MEL AT 3433. PW.or Lesl>e 437 BP by Saturday mor­return. If you have it and won't return it, DESPERATELY NEED 3 MICHIGAN ning. O"ections and quetltiona· call Laura could you at leutsend me the film? Juat 62 VALIANT, REBUILT ENGINE, CALIF STATE TICKETS! CALL JENNY 284-Yet~terday trains came to a screeching 2706. TR livetl on the river. Pretend its thePRO. TYPE Over 15 yra exp. Specializing flip the switch on the bonom of your new CAR-SOLID BODY. STEEL RADIALS 5405! halt Today i&INSATIABLE Tomorrow will Thames! CHEERS !!
in 11\Jdenl papers, reeumee, diuerta­
camera to rewind it, open it, and mail it to MANY NEW PARTS, $750 OR BEST OF­be knocking on the wall next door 
tiona, law papers 2n·5633 225 Flanner. Its the least you could do in FER, 287-7400 OR 23~6226 Need 2-4 M$U GA's for my bosa!Help me ATTENTION WOMEN MAD MAX IS 21 return for the nice gift. $ave my job! call $COUat x1803 Wordprocessing TODAY AND NEVER BEEN ... BE THE$1()-$360 Weekly/Up Mai~ng Circulara! 
FOR SALE, ONE WAY TICKET TOLl Call Dolorea 2n-6045 FIRST, CALL 34ttl LINE FOfiMINGNo bouee/quotu! Sincerely intereeted LOST: One blue NO box. Lost from Flan­MACGARTHER AIRPT., GOOD UNTIL HELP' Need 2 MSU GAs. Will trade MISS NOW OUTSIDE 336 HOLY CltOSS.
rullh self-addressed envelo"e: Dept. AM­ner Hall vecinities. The box contained per­120CT.,CALL4066. or LSU, or pay$$$. ED 1857 HURRY, OFFER GOOD ONLY WHILE7CEG, PO Box 830, Woodalock, IL sonal iteme and books. Very intereeted in Jeff Herman-How was your summer? HIS SUPPLY LASTS
60098. 
gening the personal itema back. Any info 1981 MUSTANG: 43000 MILES: GREAT You're in the same core courses as one of 
I HAVE 4, COUNT'EM, 4 MICHIGAN
call John at 1223. Reward offered. CONDITION: $3000 NEG.: DAVE 1980 my beat fnenda. He said you hardly ever PARTY TONIGHT W/ PEOPLE FROMTYPING AVAILABl.E 
STATE STUDENT Til. I WILL TltADE eay anything. He al8o eaid that you're ALL OVER THE WOfiLD intemaVoniJ/287-4062 THESE Til FOR U.S.C. Til, STUDENT 
fairty intelligent. which I already knew. student organization party Grace Hall Ofl G.A.-IF INTEitESTED COllE TOLOST: Notre Dame class ring, 

antiqued gold with red stone. MEH Car spkre • round inmount,3·way·Pion­Love, Your Secret Admirer. Basement 10pm ALL NO/SMC STU­THE OBSERVER TODAY BErWEEN DENTS WELCOME free refreshments '86 Is Inscribed on inside. If found TS-168, Pioneer TS-1655 Markus 2n­
12:3&-2 PM 

please call Mary a11367. 0840 SAVE $$$ ON YOUR TEXTSII USED KEYS AND SMC 10 LOST· ST. LOUIS
HURRICANE ELANA SURVIVERS JEFF THANKS FOR THE FLOWERS. willing to sell all poueaions for II­THEY BRIGHTENED MY DAY AS MUCH 
CLASS BOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLO. STREET AREA IF FOUND PLEASE PRESENT THIS AD AND RECEIVE AN CALL 284-4021 
STATE TICKETS Ill $$$ CALL PAT AS YOU 001-KTW EXTRA $5 OFF OF $50 PURCHASE. 
FOR RENT 2058
TICKETS

PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 SO. BEND GO HAWAIIAN II! 
SHOfiTS AND SHADES DANCE IN AVE, 233-2342. All Campua Hawaiian LUAU 
NEED 1 MICHIGAN ST TIX !!! Stu or GA. ZAHM. ALL FEMALES INVITED II Friday, September 6 
Private entrance, two room furnillhed, 
call1562 SATURDAY FROM 1:30 TO 1:30 IN HAIRCUTS 3.50-REFERENCES. CALL 4:45-6:45 p.m. on Green Field 
utilities paid. Call mornings 288·0955. I DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHIGAN 
ZAHM HALL PARTY ROOM BIUX4100 MUSICAL CHAIRS starts at 5:15 STATE TICKETS -WILLING TO 
.. . . . . . . . . . . 

EFF .APT.close to NEGOTIATE ON PRICES. CALL ANN ... . .' 
sponsored by 

DON'T FORGET FOLKS, TODAY'S Ride needed to University of Mieaouri, UNCLE SAM WANTS YOU I!! 'AROUND THE CORNER' 
campue.Kitchen,bath,walk in ct.2114-6647 MARIE AT 284-4159. 
YOUR LAST CHANCE TO SIGN-UP 

Columbia or St. Louie on ~27: return, ~ ········································· To Give Up Some Army G.A. ·s and FOR THE WEDNESDAY LUNCH FAST' 
NEED 4 TICKETS TO U.S.C, 2 TICKETS Female roommate needed. $95 mo. TO MISS. AND 1 TICKET TO MICH. ST.. Close to campus. Call 272-2478 DESPERATE!!! CALL COLLECT (914) 
29. Call2661,1ate nighta. Be All You Can Be UNIVERSITY FOOD SERV:CES 
And Call Sammy at 20n or 2078 Aloha. SOPHOMORES: FUN IUS '88 TO U OF (We offer cash, experience, and travel op­M!
338-1120. ASK FOR JIM ORSAUY. Nice furnished house good neighborhood 
portunities.) Tix $12 1nclude transpo. lodg>ng & party­approx. 1 mile north of NO 2n·3604/683-•ng w/frats. tailgater. Leave Fn 5 pm
LOST/FOUND I 
Return after geme (no game tix prov1ded). 

8889. 
NEED 20R4 MICH ST GAs Will Pay$$ 'AROUND THE CORN~R' T1x on sale atan1ng Mon ] Soph Claaa 
Call Jim 283-3527 pr-n1a 
Office 4·9 pm. PARTY WITH '88!1

Female roommate needed at Campus
ORTHODONTIC ltETAINEit found 8/28 A VIDEQ-DANCE-CONCERT·MUSIC 
I NEED TWO GA'S TO THE MSUView Apts. Pleue call 272·1704
in Admin Bldg. If it fila you it'e youre. Call NEED 1 TICKET FOR MICHIGAN EXTRAVAGANZA
GAME. CALL 2752 AFTER 5:00PM Brian 23~5n2 to claim. STATE, 2 FOR SOUTHERN CAL, CALL featunng YES IIFF WHAT DO YOU WANT
WANT ROOMATE TO SHARE EX­LaSt year's MTV Rock-A·Like Concert 
TOMHAT3175 I DESPERATELY NEED MANY MSU 
NOW?

PENCES IN LOCATION NEAR N.D. 239 on a GIANT Screen 
REWARD-REWARD-REWARD­................................... 
TIC~ETS CALL MIKE 1476 
LOST AMETHYST and GOLD BEADED 5144 ASK FOR BETH DON'T SEU YOUR MICHIGAN STATE Kevin Herbert's w1nning 'BRUCE' BRACELET. GREAT SENTIMENTAL TIX TO SOMEONE ELSE SELL THEM impersonation-LIVE 
NEED .... ONE STUD. TIC FOR MIC· ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS STU·VALUE TO ME!! IF FOUND, PLEASE ROOMMATE WANTED. IRISH HIUS TO ME! I'M DESPERATE. CALL BOB AT HIGAN STATE GAME! CALL 1706: ASK The bend 'COLD DRINKS' DENTS NEWSLETTERS AVAILABLECALL GRETCHEN. AT 3299. APT. FURNISHED, CALL 291-8895, JIM 1248. THANX. Saturday, September 7 
FOR JOHN. 
AT LA FORTUNE AND APARTMENTfrom 9:00p.m.· 2:00a.m. 
MAILBOXES QUESTIONS CALLRed and blue wallet, thei.O. ca1ds are im­PLEASE HELP! I NEED 3 G.A.'S TO Desperately seeking 2 GAs FOR THE at lhe ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB . 

BEAVER 234-2275 portant. PI-call J.A. x-2060 THE ARMY GAME OCT.11 AND 9 ARMY GAME' Patents are sending my 2 Admission is FREE 

G.A.'S TO MSU Ofl MISSISSIPPI. IF

WANTED 
sieters via UPS. I'd like to send them back IT'S BRENDAN JUDGE'S BIRTHDAYLOST Okl brown docQidera at Ounea on YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL MEL but the beat I can do is to send them to the BUT HE'S TOO SHY TO ADMIT IT CAUSaturday Golf club at Bur1<e G.C. : Haig­AT3433. . geme. Plaaae call Dave at 3368. VOLLEYBALL for LOGAN 3240 TO WISH HIM A Uitra Sand Wedge on 18th hole $reward$ wanted 2 gas to any home gamet1 call VOLLEYBALL for LOGAN HAPPY DAY! 
VOLLEYBALL for LOGAN at2397 272-3491 Need 1 or 2 Mich St Tix. can Bill3515. $$ PLEASE. I'M DESPERATE! ITS MY TOMMOROW on GREH'FIELD begin­

no object. BIRTHDAY ON THE 21st · SELL ME 6 
FOUND: Gold chain bracelet outside BP. COMPUTER RETAIL STORE NEEDS MICH. ST. G.A.'S AND YOU'U BE ning at 10:00am -music, volleyball, Call Mary at 1367. STUDENTS, HOURS FLEXIBLE PART INVITED TO THE PARTY!! PLEASE 
refreshments, sun & fun with your friends! 
SUSAN SMITH AND MEGAN BROWN • Come on out & cheer on your favorite

TIME $3.35 HOUR 2n-5026 ASK FOR HELP! HELP! desperately need one or CALL ANNE 284·5048 WELCOME BACK FROM IRELAND!!
teams!!!
LOST!!! 3 KEYS ON COIN PURSE RAY two tickets to MSU game cost no issue! MISSED YOU!! LOVE. MJ CHAIN. IT'S BLACK AND RELATIVELY 
Call Dave at 2048 
···················· 

NORMAL LOOKING. PUUEASE FINO LEMANS HALL HAPPY HOUR Haggar
DELIVERY PERSON WANTED. MUST JIM CREELY THANK YOU FOR THE IT FOR ME!! CALL PAULA AT 3570 IF College Center Friday 7·9pm 21 1.0. re­
HAVE OWN CAR PART-TIME I have Michigan and Mich. St. tickets. Best PAST YEAR: I LOVE YOU ELLEN 
,j PERSONALS
FOUND. EVENINGS. IN quired $2. Purchue tickets at Sage or
APPLY PERSON offer. Call Eric 1527 RICCO'S OLDE HOUSE PIZZERIA, 130 
LeMana lobby 4:3()-6:30pm. 
"MR. EVERYTHING" HAVE A 

FOUD: WATCH in Flanner. Call1066 and DIXIEWAY NO.,ACROSS FROM BIG C 
I need 2 and/or 4 GA'e for Michigan State BIRTHDAY! YOU KNOW WHO. deeaibeit. LUMBER. u soon u poaaible. Call Mike at 1806 lnteret1ted in lnter-V.nity Christian Fel­lowship? Call Sheila1985, Kevin 1883 
JEANNE CARROLL· ROSES ARE RED LOST· gold Tiuot watch with brown band ATTENTION: NOTRE DAME AND HOLY I NEED USC GA'e Have cash & home LARRY'S SCHEDULE VIOLETS ARE BLUE ONLY REAL (brol<en).lflound, call1326 eo I can getto 
CROSS STUDENTS POSITONS GA's for trade: Call DAVE 1712 Aldi Foodl -Quality food at discount DUCKS QUACK UNLESS A DOMER ISclaM on time. 
OPENED MONDAY, WEDNESDAY, prices Eddy at Howard St. Charcoal MWF 
AFTER YOU HAPPY 20th II-DAY LUV, AND FRIDAYS 11AM TO 1:30 PM. NEED MSU TICKET BAD CALL ANDY $1.99, Coney Buns $.29, Jeno Pizza 1:15Philo KEGS, COZIMIK, AND SPANKETTE LOST: blacllta!>e cue with collection of APPLY IMMEDIATELY AT ST. MARY'S 272-6783 Saus or Combo $.79 2:20 French ~-and a radio ~tor . If found, DINING HALL EOE. TT 
Michael • I hope this isn't breaking mycall Kathy at 283-3680. 

2 mich. state Hx. Best offer. beiiX wts OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIOUOR. 11:00Gov't promise but HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY!! 
NO Prof. seeks reaponalble etudent to poster wanted. Mike 3380 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 1 :15 Fiction Writing Love, Joan BOOK BAG MIX·UPIIIF YOU GRABBED help with houaework, errands one fuR or BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 2:45 Reporting the News THE WI'IONG BOOK BAG FROM UN­two half daya a week. 3 bklcka from Need 4 MSU ticketa. 283·1940 DER ONE OF THE OUTDOOR TABLES campus. $25.00. Ext. 7659 or 5212. thanks for the help last 11pring St Jude Hi Mom And Dad! MOUY H.-YOU ONLY HAVE TO HOLD 
AT THE BOOKSTORE ON WED. 8/28, 4 FOR GAME!! YOUR OWN FOR 700 MORE DAYS Ill
Need GA'S ARMY I'VE GOT YOUR BAG. MY BAG WAS MODELS WANTED: ND-SMC STU­PLEASE CALL 272-4540 Wanted:BABYSITTERS:pt.time 
································································ 

THE SAME AS YOURS, EXCEPT THAT DENTS NEEDED FOR WOMEN'S FAS­daya/nitee/wkenda:need car or trans. 5 
··································••\'''''''''''''"''''''''''''

MINE WAS EMPTY AND YOURS HAD A HION PHOTOGRAPHY. SIZE 8·10. DAY $$$NEED AT LEAST 2 MSU TIX. MUST mi. from campus:3kida:1 ,4,6 in our NEIGHBORrlOOO STUDY HELP CATH. PACK Of TEAaERRY GUM AND AN RATE ft EXPENSES. 232-4944 FOR KNOW BY FRI NITE. CALL lYNN 283-home.call2n-8807 Bam-10pm PROGRAM We don't know what to eay under the ELK COUNTY SAVINGS PEN IN IT. IF APPT. 4121 MANDATORY ORGANIZATIONAL circumatancea, so we'll juet eay good YOU EVER WANT TO SEE YOUR GUM WARNING: IF YOU RECEIVE A CALL MEETING FOR OLD AND NEW MEM-luck. AND YOUR PEN AGAIN, CALL 2280. CARPOOL KZOO/ND FLEX WiH pay your next semester's book biH (or FROM ED GAUSMAN OR GRACE 215 BERS Get wellaoon so you can once again THANKSII HRS(616)27~5717 OR LV MSG IN LAW name your price) for 4 Of 5 USC Q.A.a. AND YOU HAVEN'T MET ME THEN SUNDAY SEPT. 8 IN THE AR­"Rally McNally!" 
SCHOOL MAILBOX Call4112. YOU AND I ARE HAVING A JOKE CHITECTURE AUDITORIUM. Needleaa (or il that needles) to eay, KEYS AND SMC I.D. LOST· ST. LOUIS PLAYED ON US. I DO NOT HAVE YOUR OFFICERS, CAPTAINS, AND COOR­you're in our prayers. STREET AREA IF FOUND PLEASE Ridera to/from dntwn Chicago. Leaving NEED MICHIGAN STATE TIX BADLY! MAIL. SO LAUGH AT THEM BUT DON'T OINATORSAT6PM. TUTORSAT7PM. Scoop. Sue and ME CALL 284-4021. 11a.m. en,return 11a.m. 9/8 Ct.l2909. CALL MIKE } 288·5355 BELIEVE IT. PL.ACESSTIU OPEN FOR TUTORING. 
··········································:;···················· 
-~-------------~-­
The Obserwr Friday, September 6, 1985 -page 11 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 10 
Graduate touch football teams of six ptayer~ 
each may register as a departmem until Wednesday at the NVA officc in the ACC. -The Obsen'er 
An open water polo tournament will be 
held by NVA. Teams of 10 players (with at least four women) may register by Wednesday by paying a UO fee at the NVA office in the ACC. -The Obsen1er 
An outdoor volleyball tournament will 
be held by NVA. Teams of at least nine players may register until Wednesday at the NVA office in the ACC. The limit for this elimina­tion tournament is 32 teams.-The Observer 
The NO Men's Rowing Club will be practicing tomorrow at I 0:30a.m., beginning at the main circle. Club membl·r~ should bring Sl with them. ~The Obsen1er 
Interhall soccer rosters are due in the NVA offin· by Wednesday. An entry fee of S25 must accompany each hall'~ roster. -Tbe Obsen1er 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team opens its fall season this weekend with a young squad, a new coach, and an enthusiastic outlook. The Belles' new coach, Debbie Laverie, however, is not a new face around campus -she is a 1985 Saint Mary's graduate. 
Laverie played singles and doubles in the number-one position for the Belles all four years and was elected MVP each year. She was named captain and SMC Athlete of the Year her junior and senior years. In addition, Laverie finished off her collegiate tennis career ranked ninth in the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics. 
The Belles' 10-member team con~ sists of two juniors, one sophomore, and seven freshmen. There are no seniors on the team and only one returning varsity player -Kim Drahoto. The team members in their respective singles positions are No. 1 Anne Dimbero, No. 2 Shaun Boyd, No. 3 Kim Drahoto, No. 4 Valerie Falbo, No. 5 Bridget Hertog, and No. 6 Sheila Campbell or Charlene 

Saint Mary's tennis team set for '85 season with familiar face at helm 
:·····································••++•••••••l 
+ Bar-b-Que Pig Roast Hot Dogs Beer Pop Fun Baked Goods 
i• 
Sponsered by: ! :SHAMROCK BUSINESS assco. Inc., NORTHEAST NEIGHBORHOOD ASS.: 
:  & ALL OUR NEIGHBORS  ~  
i  NORTHEAST  i  
~  FALL  :.!  
f  FESTIVAL  •  

:  Goodwill Plaza-Eddy at 5 Points  : I  
•  SHAMROCK  • I  
: :  "Where Notre Dame Meets South Bend" Dunk Tank With N.D. And South Bend Celebrities!!!  :J•  


Sjazka. Katie O'Brien, Anne Piacentine, and Jenny Rode are the remaining team members who are not holding positions to play this weekend. 
"Although the team needs col­legiate playing experience," says Laverie, "The girls' enthusiasm is a very positive aspect. Everyone is working hard and practicing toget­her as a team." 
The Belles face a tough schedule this fall to prepare themselves for the district tournament which will determine who will qualify for Na­tionals in the spring. Saint Mary's opens with Evansville and Mar­quette this weekend. Both opposing schools are NCAA Division One teams whereas Saint Mary's is an NAIA team. 
Laverie is happy to be starting off the seasotJ with strong competition, though. 
_And that he did. 
"They are both tough teams," says Laverie, "but we've always beaten them in the past. If we keep our con­fidence, we'll do well." 
The Evansville match will begin at 3 p.m. Saturday and the Belles wlll meet Marquette at 1 p.m. Sunday. 

Replay of call enrages Yankee Stadium umps 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Crew chief Larry Barnett threatened to remove umpires from the field last night after a replay of a controversial call was shown on the scoreboard at Yankee Stadium, prompting several fans to throw objects at first base umpire Ken Kaiser. 
In the top of the sixth inning of New York's 7-3 victory over Oak­land, Mike Davis ofthe A's was called safe by Kaiser at first base on a close call. Two outs later, Dwayne Murphy hit a three-run homer that tied the score. 
As the Yankees were leaving the field after the top of the sixth, the replay was shown twice -once at regular speed, once in slow-motion ­on the large scoreboard in right­center field. 
The replay appeared to show that Davis was out, and fans behind first base threw objects at Kaiser. 
"I went into the Yankee dugout after the replays," Barnett said. "I told Billy (Yankees Manager Martin) 
that ifthey showed it one more time, I would take my umpires off the fiWJ. I do not want my umpires to
: '85 : 
get hurt." 
"I don't expect to deprive the fans the pleasure ofwatching replays, but there is a directive in the American League that states replays should be shown with discretion. I plan on talking to Dr. Brown (American League President Bobby Brown) tomorrow morning. I told Bllly to knock it off and he said it's in the hands of George (Yankees owner Steinbrenner)." 
Steinbrenner, in the pressbox at Yankee Stadium, said: "call Bobby Brown tomorrow and see what he thought ofthat call." 
"Hey, I admire good umpiring, but let them stand up and admit it when they make a mistake. I admire umpires who admit they blew a call like that umpire did in the Boston series (in a 10-inning, 5-4 New York victory over Boston on Aug. • 16. Home plate umpire Drew Coble ad­mitted he missed a call on a fourth ball to Wlllie Randolph for a walk that forced in the wining run)." 
"I don't know about any league . directive. I do not expect to get fined, but I expect a strong letter. What goes on around here is my responsibllty, not the people who run the scoreboard." 

: !
• Sunday Afternoon, Noon-7:00pm + 

: September 8 : r----------------------------,
SUPER PREMIUM 
HOME MADE ICE CREAM 
Cheesecakes(homemade) 10 Different Coffees and 10 Different Teas Cappaclno Croulsant Meals and Homemade Soup 
DISCOUNT COUPON Good 11119/12 Buy one ice cream treat. Get one of equal 

value FREE. 
826 W. Edison Mishawaka 258-0777 11am-11pm 7 days. 

• friangle Drafting Supply • 
• \\ 1021 N. Main St• ••eND u Mishawaka, ln. 46544 •
•
259-2459 •
•1 
•

• I Edison 
• 

·---~~~--t
• McKinely ~ 
• ell
• 
s· 

• 
(J) 

• 
Jefferson St. ~ 


•
•

·------+­
• Triangle
• * 
• 
•
•
•
• 
Drafting Supplies and •
•
Reproduction Work 
• 
Special Student Discounts • SPECIAL-•
•
7 Piece Faber Castell • Stainless Steel Pen Set 
•
•
$35.50 
•
• 

,.....--------------­The Observer Friday, September 6, 1985 -page 12 
Hudson confident about quarterback situation 
ByERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
With only a little more than a week left before the Notre Dame football team's opener at Michigan, many people have their eyes on the team's quarterback situation. 
After Steve Beuerlein completed over 60 percent of his passes last year for 1,920 yards, the quarter­back position seemed to be the spot that was least in doubt heading into the 1985 season. 
Beuerlein's shoulder operation during the off-season, however, raised some question marks as to whether he would be 100 percent 

Ron Hudson 

come fall. But after the 6-3, 201­pound junior's performance in the preseason, no one is doubting anymore. 
"Steve is ready to go as our starter," says Irish quarterback coach Ron Hudson. "He's been very much up to par. He's been doing everything we expect. 
"As far as the injury is concerned, we really won't know howhe is until the Michigan game. He's been hit, but nothing like he'll be hit up there. 
But he's working hard. I think he's ready." 
In yesterday's scrimmage at the Stadium, Beuerlein looked to be very ready in every way. While com­pleting eight of 12 passes for Ill yards and one touchdown, he threw the ball very well, appearing stronger than last year. In addition, he took a few hard hits while scram­bling, showing no signs ofpain. 
With another year of experience behind him calling the signals, things look very good indeed for the Irish leader headinginto the opener. 
Another development during fall practice was the decislon on a backup to Beuerlein. After spring practice, sophomores Terry Andrysiak and Tom Byrne were neck-and-neck in the battle for the number-two spot. 
But despite sufferingan injury to a 
finger on his left (non-throwing) 
hand,the6-1,181-poundAndrysiak
has emerged as the backup this fall. 
"Andrysiak is our number-two man," says Hudson. "His finger is in a cast, but he's going to get a smaller one so that he can handle the snap better. 
Backing up Beuerlein on the White squad yesterday, Andrysiak filled in admirably, completing all four of his passes for 2 5 yards and one touchdown. 
"He's doing very well, and he's learning very fast," continues Hud­son. "We're pleased both with the way he's throwing the ball and with howhe runs. The back-up spotlooks more solid now." 
Meanwhile, 6-4, 197-pound fresh­man Steve Belles is giving Byrne a battle for the number-three spot on the roster. One of the most highly regarded freshman quarterbacks in the country, the Phoenix, Ariz., native has closed the gap between himself and the 6-5, 212-pound Byrne this fall. 

"It's a close contest between Byrne and Belles for the third spot," says Hudson. "Belles' size and weight are his major strengths. He's not really that far advanced mentally for a freshman, but physically he's so strong that he can do things that maybe another guy his age couldn't do. 
"Byrne's doing real well and im­proving also. It's a tough fight for that spot." 
Battlingbehind these four are sop­homore Pat Pesavento of Lockport, Ill., and freshman Pete Graham of Rumson, N.J. 
After a spring in which he made great strides, Pesavento looked good m limited action in yesterday's scrimmage. 

The important questions have been answered, however. Often called the key to this year's Irish hopes, Beuerlein is looking better than ever. And now that Andrysiak has settled in at the number-two spot, he should be ready to playiffor any reason Beuerlein can not. With all that settled, they can now look ahead to the Wolverines. 
EXTRA POINTS -The kicking game was by the far the highlight of yesterday's final scrimmage of the season, as junior John Carney booted field goals of57 and 62 yards and freshman Jim Sacco connected from 48 yards. . . Meanwhile, sop­homore Vince Phelan continues to assert himself in the punting derby that already includes Dan Sorensen and Hal Von Wvl. .. Aside from the kicking game, however, Coach Gerry Faust was unenthusiastic about his team's effort: "We did some things well," noted Faust, "but it wasn't a real good scrimmage. We didn't come offthe ball well. Our ex­ecution wasn't good, but the kicking game was excellent -what we need 
now is to put everything together. Today we were trying to con­centrate on game situations."... Leading rushers in the scrimmage were reserve tailbacks Alonzo Jeffer­son (four carries for 79 yards -in­cluding a 49-yard TD run) and Ray Carter (nine carries for 59 yards and a touchdown). ... 

~'Jfc*''Jfc'Jic'Jfc*'*'*****'****'***'*'**'**'*'*'*'*'*'*'*'**'*'Jl 
BREAK·IT TODAY! 
Musical Chairs World Record· Attempt 
5:15 on GREENFIELD Registration 3-5:15 
Come out early for dinner. Signed up or not, participation Is a MUST! 
***'***~~****''*'********'*'**''****~~*'*'**~ 
,.. 

WHEN WE HAVE A 
50% OFF SALE 
WE HAVE A 
50% OFF SALE 
,.,._,.---------~ 



----"'\..~ \
.-------oNiO~~ ~oo~:-~!~ 
\ NDA~ s~~1~-!----­' S'IU ' r"---·----­
~-----­

For example: Ladies' Skirts Reg $2.00-14.00 Sale $1.00-$2.00 Ladies'Sweaters Reg $2.00-$4.00 Sale $1.00-$2.00 Mens' Slacks Reg $2.00.-$4.00 Sale $1.00-$2.00 Mens' Shirts Reg $1.50-$3.50 Sale$ .75-$1.75 All Glassware Reg $.75 & up Sale $.37 & up 
All l Jsetl Iten1s All Ne\\' lten1s 
S<>% <>ff 
I<>% <>ff 

• 

Goodwill Plaza, Eddy and Howard St. 
~ 

Across From Nickies 
~----------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­
The Observer Friday, September 6, 1985 -page 13 
homore Kathy Baker, a steady com­petitor last year as a freshman. 

Thanks toyou...

Opener CARS
"Everyone has come back this 
year as a better athlete and as an im­
it works...

continuedfrom page 16 
proved plaver," Lambert says. 
need one?
"Everyone is more knowledgeable 
forALLOFUS

blocker and an important cog in the and more skilled. And that makes us 
For a great deal on a New Chevrolet or
team's attack. Titcn there are juniors 
a better team." 
a quality used car, callCHARLIE BURNS(ND '84)
Mollie Merchant and Karen Sapp, a 
duo of proven veterans. Lambert The first test of the team's mettle calls Merchant, a talented server, the comes tonight as the Irish make most improved player on the team. their 1985 debut against Kentucky. Sapp is a sure-fire bet to log playing The Lady Kats walloped the Irish time because she is such a threat at back in 1983 in three straight the net. Also in the wings is sop-lopsided games. 
• 
at 674-6059(w) or 233-lOO(h) SPECIAL DISCOUNTS FOR ND-SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF Unitedway 
Beforeyoumake . a longdistance itmenl, 


make~reyou ~ 
whatyou're ng1nto. 

IfFletcher Christian and Captain Bligh had known what being stuck in the same boat would mean, chances are neither would have set foot aboard._ 
.AM}·;f you're stuck in the same boat with a long distance company that doesn't give you all the · services·you need, it's easy to harbor mutinous thoughts. 
But when you pick AT&T as your long distance company, you know you're in for smooth sailing. 
You'll get trouble-free, reliable serv~~. Immediate connections-even during the busiest hours. Guaranteed 60% and 40% discounts off our Day Rate on state-to-state calls. And operators to assist you with immediate credit-for .wrong numbers and collect calling. 
So when you're asked to choose a long distance company, sign aboard with AT&T. With AThT Long Distance Service, you'll never be left stranded. Reach out and touch someone~ 

© 1985AT&T 

--~--­

Friday, September 6, 1985 -page 14
The Observer 
Mutschler has all the tools for stopper position 
By FRANK LIPO 
Sports Writer 
A stopper is important on any team, whether it's a late-inning baseball relief pitcher or a hard­hitting linebacker. Jock Mutschler, a tri-captain on the Notre Dame soc­cer team, plays the defensive posi­tion of stopper, and should play a key role ~n Irish soccer fortunes this year. 
"I'm sort of defense-oriented," says Mutschler, "And what the stop­per has to do is mark the center­forward, who is usually the best scorer for the other team. 
Irish coach Dennis Grace feels his 
star fills all the necessary qualifica­
tions to be a successful defensive 
stopper. 
"There are certain qualities you 
look for when you look for a stopper 
back ...," says Grace, "tenacity, 
strength, a never-say-die attitude, a 
very, very high work rate, and a great 
deal of coqcentration. Jock plugs 
right into that description very well. 
"WhenJock was born, I'm sure he 
had stopper across his forehead," 
continues Grace. "He could play ot­
her positions, there's no doubt in my 
mind, but I don't think he could play 
other positions nearly as well as he 
plays the stopper position." 
Although Mutschler is recovering 
from a minor shin bruise suffered in 
the George Mason game, he should 
be in the lineup as the Irish soccer 
team faces Wisconsin-Milwaukee 
tomorrow at 2 p.m. onAlumni Field. 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee has a 2-0 
record so far on the young season, 
with victories against Quincy and 
Tulsa in the Quincy Tournament. 
Grace feels this contest will be anot­
her tough battle since the Panthers 
had a good recruiting year to 
complement an already ex­
perienced squad. To further con­
cern Grace are the facts that the Irish 
have never before defeated the Pan­
thers and that this opponent seems 
determined to regain its status as a 
pePCnnial top-20 contender. 
"They are a balanced offensive 
and defensive team," says Grace. "I 
don't think they'll be as technically 
good as either Virginia or George 
Mason (who handed the Irish losses 
on the recent East coast trip), but 
they'll be very well-coached and I'm 
sure they'll come out playing hard." 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee is the first 
opponent for the Irish from the 
Mideast region. These regional 
games are important because the 
teams that do well in the region will 
receive bids to the NCAA tourna­
ment. 
Mutschler, in particular, is looking 
ahead to these key midwest rivalries. 
"They're going to be real battles," 
says the senior standout. "All these 
Join the PRE-lAW SOCIETY 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
1st General Meeting 
JIONDAY, SII!P11!JIIIEII 9 

'1:3e u.m-..Aadltort.• 


Tiiilothy Leary: 
In 1969, his California gubernatorial campaign was cut short by a bogus arrest for possession. Ronald Reagan, Leary· s chief rival in the campaign, cruised to an easy victory. Learn how things might have been when Leary hits no in six days. 
The Future Per~aclivas Series 


Midwest teams are pretty evenly­matched." 
It is Grace's hope, though, that Mutschler's work on both ends of the field will be the difference. For although the talented player's reliable defensive play has made him vital to the Irish squad, the senior captain has been also working much on his offensive game this year. 

Jock Mutschler 
"He doesn't see as much of the (offensive) game as we would like right now, but he's improving on it," admits Grace. "Before the season is out he'll be adding a great deal to our offense, without letting his defensive responsibilities fall off at all. He gives opponents fits when he plays against them one-on-one, and he's played well against some of the best players in the country. 
"He does such a good job at what he does that we have to have him play," continues Grace. "The gravy would be if he can give us the of­
0•• 
FRIDAY 

lunch -11:30 -2:00 night -"PITCHER & PIZZA" $5.00 
fensive thrust and the offensive con­tributions." 
Mutschler echoes Grace's evaluation of his contribution to the team. 
"Probably my weakness would be moving up and getting into the of­fense," he agrees. "(Coach Grace) has worked with me a lot to get me more involved with the offense and make me more aware of the of­fensive scheme of things." 
Chosen captain by his teammates during the summer, Mutschler tries to use his steady style of play as a tool in his role as captain. 
'.'I try to be a good role model on the field as well as off," he admits. "I'm not the rah-rah, aggressive, overzealous type. I try to go up to freshmen and give them a pat on the back instead of screaming to get them motivated." 
In Grace's opinion, Mutschler ful­fills his duties in this respect with the same success that he performs his on-the-field responsibilities. 
"He just wants to go out there and 
do his job and make sure everybody 
else does theirs," says Grace. "He's 
doing a very good job as captain 
right now." 
Still another goal of Mutschler's, 
though, is to improve the "team con­
cept." 
"I want the team to work as a 
cohesive unit," he says. "One of the 
goals as captain is to get the fresh­
men involved and to make sure they 
know they're contributing, and to 
make sure they fit in and adjust well. 
That's a big thing I've really con­
centrated on. 
"We've got five or six freshmen who see playing time," he adds. "We just need time to jell." 

Mutschler hopes that this can oc­cur rapidly, though, since the chal­lenges of the Notre Dame soccer schedule are many and great. 
"It's really exciting because it's not hard to get up for a game anymore," says the veteran Mutschler. "In the past we've had patsy teams. This year we're just_ loaded with powerhouses, and it's really good to challenge yourself each game. It's not hard to get up mentally to play against the best teams. 
"We can't expect to win them all 
IAMERICAN

How you live may save your life. T~ 
WELCOME TO SOUTH BEND FRESHMAN DAY AT THE 

ND. Library Downtown to

SEPTEMBER 7, 1985 
to Downtown ND. library 
1003 12:10 

10:00 to 12:30 IU33 12:40 11.03 1:10 11:33 1:40 12:03 2:Hi 
Rubber-soled shoes will be requ~red. Long pants knee pads and gloves are suggested. No one

-~E-­
will be allowed to use the race if !hey have on · 

WITH PRIDE 
any sharp objects or jewelry 

5-JII.J..!/YJ;......b,. 
with the schedule we have, though," he continues. "(Our goal) is just to improve with each game." 
Grace•. meanwhile, is excited about the future of his star player and leader, and along with it, the chances for his team. 
"I'm hoping that we can show the people that we deserve to have an opportunity to play against the bet­ter teams in the country," says Grace. "We're pretty much on schedule where we want to be. A lot will be told Saturday. We'll find out what we learned against Virginia and George Mason." 


Authentic Chinese Cuisine 
FAMILY DINING OR CARRY-OUT BANQUETS CATERING 
LUNCH 11 :30AM-2PM MON-FRI DINNER 4:30PM-9PM 7 DAYS 
RESERVATIONS WELCOr.l fill 


256-5576CIC 
2620 LINCOLN WAY W. 
MIS~WAKA 





~--------------~----------------~--------------------------------­


~4(Jt~C3L~-------------------------------------------F·n-·d_a_y._s_e_p.te.m
..b.er•6•'•1•9•8•5··-p.a•g•e•l-5 

Bloom County 
ro~Y 1Hfi WfL.P 15 5TIJL. l?at.!NG fi?Ottf 
Ye51'!RJJ~rf'5 lrfY-'~KIM 
lt'f:AP!../N€ IN ''f'RAVPI/! 
"-
Zeto 
ACROSS 1 Chats 6 In statu quo 
1 0 Trae fiber 14 Heap 15 Cotton fiber 16 Toward the 
center 17 Wllkes-­18 Green plum 1 9 Follow secretly 20 Tlnhorn 22 Clay square 23-mecum 24 Place for a 
lace 26 Chiffonier 
part 30 Animal trail 32 Rattling sound 33 Pintail duck 35 Unexpected 
outcome 39 Vienna's land 41 Heart chamber 43 Sphere 44 "Show Boat" 
composer 46 Cut of meat 47 Rubber source 49 Like some nuts 51 Large desert 54 Bluish green 56 Eng. river 57 Definitely not 
lor sore eyes 63 Frolic 64 Layer 65 Parting word 66 Abstract being 67 Sailor's 
patron saint 68 Arthur­Doyle 69 Opposite of 
dele 70 Henna user 71 Gladden 
DOWN 1 Clumsy vessels 
IINP WHO 15 IJEH/NP ff ?' 
THE"'r'Re SUPPOSED 
BE"uNB!£~ 
Fa\ THE"IR PRICE, THEY 
SETTER BE. 

!C) 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 9/6/85
All Rights Reserved 
8 "Picnic" playwright 9 Sound system 10 Something hard to swallow 11 "Forwent 
of-..." 12 Fence crossing 13 Realtor's sign 21 Ankle bones 25-Majesty 26 Influence 27 Fidel's 
brother 28 Plus 29 Drip 31 Bose 34 Brand 36 Highlander 37 Author Wiesel 38 Mind 

2 "My Name Is-" 40 Before end 3 Signor's money or guard 4 Malden or Marx 42 Eat one's 5 Put aside words 6 Chilly 45 Utmost 7 Thai 48 Took a sip 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
mer 1f«X¥75 t?£MfltN ON Ml?. (J(../V€1? ~N~U. 11161{ 1/(.£/(T, M/t.I..!ON5 liKe JONeS Of 667 Ule5T 
fi5KIN&, WHIIT 110e5 ITMi1W? MIIM smeer. 
Thursday's Solution 

JHe F.D.t.IS 
fEA/1fN(;, 7fl&(,f/611{ NOW. 
~' 
Kevin Walsh 
Campus 
Friday, September 6 

•8:00 
a.m. · 4:30 p.m. · Exhibition and Sale of Art Prints, LaFortune Center Ballroom, Sponsored by Office ofStudent Activities 

•12:
1 5 . 1 :00 p.m. · "Interracial Friendship in Elementary School Classrooms" Maureen 

T. 
Hallinan, Notre Dame, Room 124 Center for Social Concerns, Brown Bag or ~up and Bread, $1 

•7:00, 
9:15, and ll:30 p.m · SAB FUm, "Karate Kid", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1. 50 

•7:30 
p.m. ·Volleyball, Notre Dame vs. Ken· tucky,ACC 

•7:30 
and 9:45 p.m. · Friday Night Film Series, Annenberg Auditorium, 

•10:00 
p.m. . International Student Organization Party, Basement of Grace Hall, Sponsored by International Student Organiza­tion 

Saturday, Sept. 7 


•9:00 
a.m. and 1 :00 p.m. · Tennis, Notre Dame Women vs. Evansville/Marquette, Courtney Courts 

•9:30 
·4:00p.m.. Dunes Trip for St. Mary's Sophomores, Sponsored by Sophomore Board, $2.50 



"Betty, you tool! Don't tease that thing!" 
•9:30 
a.m.· Class of'87 trip to Great America Amusement Park, Sponsored by Junior Class, Sl5.00 

•2:00 
p.m.· Soccer, Notre Dame Men vs. Wis­consin, Milwaukee, Alumni Field 

•7:00, 
9:15, and 11:30 p.m. · SAB FUm, "Karate Kid", Engineering Auditorium, Stu· dent Activities Board, S1.50 

Sunday, Sept. 8 


•11 
:00 a.m. • Mass, Misa en Espanol, Fr. Claude Pomerleau, Farley Chapel 

•11 
:00 a.m. · Golf Tournament, Scramble Golf Tournament, Burke Memorial Golf Course, Sponsored by Junior Class, $4.00 per person (teams offour) 

•1 
:00 · 4:00p.m. · Opening Art Exhibitions, Works by George Rickey and Photographs by George Callahan, Snite Museum ofArt 

•8:00 
p.m.. Mandatory meeting for all St. Mary's Freshman interested in running for Freshman Council, 3rd Floor Haggar College Center, Sponsored by St. Mary's College Stu­dent Government Elections Committee 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

"All Campus Hawaiian Luau" Sliced Oriental Pork Roast Grilled Oriental Polynesian Chicken Seafood Medley Stir Fried in Woks 
Saint Mary's 

French Dip Cheese and Mushroom Omelet Fried Fish Fettucini 
50 -·Lorraine 51 Kind oftax 52 Nautical 
command 53 Roslnante 
for one 55 Gaffe 58 Unctuous 59 Demigod 60 Lollobrlglda 61 Kind of wave 62 Melody 

The Sunglass Co. 
University Park Mall 
Just Outside L.S. Ayres In the mall 
-------------------~
COUPON 
~~  
~ good for 25 '•  ~I o. 1  
off Vuarnet  ~ {I  
8c Ray-Ban  =I  




MAJORS and STUDENTS INTERESTED IN Film/video Media Studies Theatre 
to a Reception In THE LOFT O'SH~UGHNESSY HALL Friday, September 6 3:30·5:00 pm 
Welcome Back COTH majors! 
-. 

S~orts 
Volleyball team opens 1985 season tonight at ACC against Kentucky 
By CHUCK EHRMAN trip over fall break to the "capital of setter position to outside hitter, Sports Writer volleyball excitement," California, where it is hoped that she'll have 
where the Irish will play three another banner season, a season like 
Tonight at 7:30 the Fighting Irish matches. Also appearing are Ohio the one that garnered her all-NSC return to the ACC for a night of State, Georgia, Oklahoma, Houston, honors last fall. But McLaughlin isn't women's volleyball. And they open and UCLA. the whole show. There are a fine their season in grand fashion. On the "Our goals for the season are high, bunch ofperformers in the support­other side of the net will be Ken­as always," Lambert assures. "But ingcast. tucky. they are tempered with realism. Filling the hole at the setter spotis 
Kentucky is no lightweight op­We're talking about a very young Jill Suglich, a sophomore who just ponent. Last year it finished with a team here. We'll be starting one might develop into a gem ofa player 22-8 record. senior, three sophomores, and two at that position. Two other sop­
"Kentucky is an unknown quan­freshmen.:· homores are slated to start, both as tity to us," says coach Art Lambert. Two members of last year's team outside hitters. They are Kathleen "They had an excellent team last are gone. Lost to graduation are last Morin and Gretchen Kraus. year, so it's going to be tough." season's captains, the inspirational 
One thing is quite clear this Josie Maternowski and Mary Jo A fresh batch of recruits has season, the Irish are out to make a Hensler. But Lambert had plenty of brought to the Irish some new name for themselves in big-time col­talent left. talent. Height was on the shopping lege volleyb,.U. The transition into a Heading the list of returnees is list and the order has been filled. volleyball power continues, and op­senior Mary McLaughlin, the There's height courtesy of six-foot timism runs high for a team that spiritual backbone of the team. And freshmen Maureen Shea and Mary finished second in the North Star success will revolve around her Kay Waller, both of whom are ex­Conference last year. Lambert hopes play. pected to start at the middle blocker to find better consistancy this time "Without a doubt, she's our positions. around after going through a leader," says Lambert. "She's the The Irish roster boasts good rollercoaster season full ofpeaks and most versatile person on th~ team depth, too. There is senior Tracy pitfalls in '84, enroute to a 14-13 and defense and passing are her Bennington, an excellent middle mark. strongest suits." 
see OPENER, page 13

Without question, the Irish are This year she will move from the bona fide contenders for the con­ference championship. But the team also wants recognition on the na­

Celebrities invade town for golf tournament 
tional scene and the girls hope to move up another rung on the ladder ByEDJORDANICH Notre Dame, and special Olympians Notre Dame, specifically Athletic Erskine, former NBA stars Bob Pettit into the glitter and hoopla of prime Sports Writer from over 60 countries will par­Director Gene Corrigan, about get­and Gail Goodrich. and Olympic time college volleyball. The climb ticipate in them. ting some of the big names in sports hockey gold medal winner Mike will not be an easy one, though. Paul Hornung, Hank Stram, Rollie The tournament is the brainstorm to come to South Bend. Corrigan, Eruzione to the tournament. 
First and foremost there is the Massimino andJoe Garagiola will be of Richard Rosenthal, chairman of through contacts with the three "We've put together a pretty good schedule, and it is a tough one. in South Bend this weekend without the board at the St. Joseph Bank and major networks, was able to get field from a variety of sports," says 
"This year the schedule is much their microphones, basketbal.ls and Trust Company and chairman of the some of today's premier Corrigan. "And the fact that these more difficult," Lambert says. "Four stat sheets. tournament as wel.l. broadcasters. In addition to people are coming at their own ex­of the teams we're going to face are "We thought this might be a way Garagiola, Keith Jackson and Pat pense for a worthy cause is just won­in the AP Top 20." Monday, at the South Bend to assist a good cause financially and Haden will play in the tournament. derful. Many volunteers have also 
The competition has been beefed Country Club, golfclubs wil11replace have some fun at the same time," contributed to what will be a great, up to include the traditional vol­regular tools ofthe trade when these says Rosenthal. "We want it to be an NBC has also promised a mystery and hopefully annual, event." leyball giants of the college circuit. stars and other sports celebrities annual affair with the proceeds guest, and speculation is that Jane Notre Dame is also part ofthe Golf From here on, it's nothing but first­play in the first annual St. Joseph going towards the Games through Pauley, Bryant Gumbel or perhaps Invitational in several other ways. class opposition for the Irish. Bank Celebrity Invitational Golf 1987 and then benefitting other David Letterman may be in South Irish football legends Angelo Bertelli 
The big-name teams include the Tournament. charities in the fol.lowing years." Bend on Monday. and Creighton Miller, former basket­
likes of Purdue, Western Michigan, The charity event will benefit the The combined efforts of Rosen­ball stars Austin Carr and Bill Laim­illinois St., Northwestern, Missouri, 1987 Special Olympic International After deciding on a charity golf thal and Corrigan are also bringing Oregon, and Arizona St. Add to this a Games. The Games will be held at tournament, Rosenthal approached baseball greats Dick Groat and Carl see GOLF, page 10 


Irish fans owe Faust a fair shot this season 
In a week, Gerry Faust officially will embark on his fifth season as Notre Dame football coach. His past four seasons have beenfilled with highs and lows, joys and sorrows, and, most ofall, growing pains. 
No one ever said the transition from high school coach to college coach would be an easy one. But Faust swears this is the year everything will come together for both him and the Irish. We will find out whether or not he is right all too soon, as Notre Dame faces a schedule that College and Pro Football Newsweekly has rated the toughest in the na­tion this year. 
Probably every Irish fan is aware of the fact that this is the final year ofFaust's original contract and that the deter­mination ofwhether or not his contract is renewed will be made at the conclusion of the season. Not surprisingly, Faust refuses to discuss anything having to do with his con­tract, instead bubbling with the optimism for which he has come to be known. 
It would be unfair to both him and the team to enter this season with anything but the same optimism. Notre Dame fans owe Faust a fair shot this year, not one fil.led with defeatism. If the Irish win enough, Faust will be back next year as coach. If they don't, things will take care of them­selves. 
Why worry about what might happen next year when this season is right upon us? 
The pressure to produce has always gone hand-in-hand with the job of football coach at Notre Dame, and Faust knew this when he first took the job. He also knows that it is there even more so this season. 
Don't count on the man not being able to withstand that pressure, though. Over the last four seasons, he has endured some ofthe most trying times known to a football coach. He has remained up when almost everyone else was down on him and the team. 
Losing was something he had not known•all too often at Cincinnati's Moel.ler High School, and Faust has come to accept the fact that it is very difficult to go undefeated at the college level (unless you play in the WAC like BYU ). 
Some rabid Notre Dame fans have trouble accepting this fact. Yet, most Irish fans would not ask for an undefeated 

Jeff Blumb 
Sports Editor 

season. Instead, what they want is a good season, one where the Irish always put forth their best effort on the playing field. Ifthat happens, fans feel that a major bowl bid will be possible, given the level of talent Notre Dame has been known to recruit. 
As the Irish prepare to open the season with Michigan, there is a certain amount ofspeculation as to what kind of season Notre Dame must have in order for Faust to get his contract renewed. Should the Irish begin the year poorly, the rumor mill will start to roll, but should they open with a couple big wins, expect such talk to be lost in the shuffie as just about everyone rushes to jump on the bandwagon. 
• 

Speaking of bandwagons, where are all the Cub fans these days? There were so many of them last season at this time when the Cubs were on their way to winning the NL East. This season, with the Cubs playing sub-.500 baseball and toiling in fifth place, you just don't see too many so, cal.led fans ofthe North Siders. 
Wrigley Field isn't quite packing them in the way it used to, either. Fans who expected to see the Cubs in a stretcli run to the pennant are bewildered by the fact that their favorites are some 18 games out of first. Gone with the Cubs' pennant hopes are all those obnoxious people who tooted the horn ofChicago baseball only 12 months ago. 
Many of the people who suddenly became "fans" last season now have nothing to boast about. The true Cub fans, though, are those who are still going to the games today, despite the fact that Chicago doesn't have a prayer in the 1985 season as far as winning the NL East goes. In all likelihood, those fans are the same ones who were Cub fans even before last season. 
Expect to see a good-sized crowd wnight at 7:30 in the ACC when the Notre Dame volleyball team opens its season against Kentucky. Although the match is certain to be a good one, the uncertainty lies in where it will be played. 
Because an area near center court of the ACC's main arena has been found to be warped, the Irish may be forced to play in the ACC Pit. The volleyball team played there for most ofits first four years at the varsity level, then moved to the main arena full-time last season. The Pit is not nearly as wel.l suited to volleyball as the main arena is, nor does it hold anywhere near the same number ofpeople. 
Because it is the opener and Kentucky is a national vol­leyball power, tonight's match is likely to draw a big crowd, which could wreak havoc should it be played in the Pit. There is not all that much room for spectator seating in the Pit . 
Determination as to whether or not the volleyball team will be able to play in the main arena was not going to be made until sometime late last night. Since it was dis­covered last week that the floor was warped, four large fans have been blowingon the affected area in an effort to dry it out. 
If the boards had dried out and gone down enough by last night, the plan was to sand them down flat and play tonight's match there. If not, it's back to the pit for the volleyball team. 
The warping is thought to have been caused by either a leaking sauna display at the mobile home show held in the ACC this summer or by water simply dripping in recently while repairs to the roof were taking place. No matter, ex­perts have looked at the area, but it hasn't been determined yet as to whether or not some boards may have to be replaced. 




