Record reviews -page 7 

5-day manhunt ends with arrest of alleged first-degree murderer 
Breezin' 

Tb.e sun, sky, and water teamed-up Saturday for an un­beatable afternoon. The sails were out in full force riding tbe gentle westerlies as students lay tbe length ofthe St.joseph's Lake pier. 
44 youths killed in Philippine fire 
Associated Press 
MANILA, the Philippines -A rural audience fled in panic from a fire in a movie house complex in the sout­hern Philippines yesterday, and 44 people, most of them teen-agers, were killed in the stampede to get out, police said. 
Fifty-three people were injured. 
"Somebody shouted fire and all of a sudden there was confusion. 
People started rushing to the doors," saidJeanette Barja, 13, who was one of 20 people injured seriously enough to be hospitalized. She spoke in a telephone interview from a hospital at Tabaco, 200 miles sout­heast ofManila. 
Hundreds of people ran out, screaming and shoving each other, from a Sunday matinee featuring a favorite movie star. 
The theater complex is on the second floor of a three-story build· ing in the center of Tabaco. Barja was among fans, including mothers carrying babies, who packed the Cine Aracade's Cinema I to watch a movie titled 'Star Without a Glow.' 
Police said the fire actually was in adjacent Cinema II, which was al· most deserted. Two charred bodies were found there, indicating the rest of the deaths occurred as people fled, police said. 
Coca-Cola to alter secret formula 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -The 99-year-old, top-secret formula used to make Coca-Cola soon will be changed, accmding to a report published Saturday. 
The new formula was developed in a secret project launched in january, The Atlanta journal and The Atlanta Constitu­tion reported in their combined Saturday edition. 
The newspapers, which quoted n.o sources and said the company would not comment, said a possible reason for the new formula was a drop in Coke's market-leading share last year. 
Coca-Cola Co. spokesman Carlton Curtis declined com­ment except to say there would be a news conference tomorrow at which "the most significant soft drink marketing develop­ment in the company's nearly 100-year history will be an­nounced." 
The current formula, known as "Merchandise 7X," is frequently described as the best-kept secret in American industry. It was developed by Dr. John Pember­ton in 1886. 
The New York Times in Satur· day editions quoted an analyst who said tomorrow's news con­
ference  would  be .used  to  in·  
traduce  a  new  brand  of  
fruit-based beverages.  

Associated Press 
FORSYTH, Mo. -Authorities Satur­day arrested a reputed member of a neo-Nazi group, ending an intense manhunt that began five days earlier with the slaying of a state trooper at a random traffic stop. 
David Tate, 22,linked to the neo· Nazi group called The Order and charged with first-degree murder in the trooper's death, was arrested 

.unarmed and without incident in a 
city park, said Capt. Lee Thompson 
of the Missouri Highway Patrol. 
Hundreds of police using camouflage, helicopters, dogs and road blocks had searched the rugged Ozark Mountains on both sides of the Arkansas-Missouri border since the trooper was killed and another wounded with a silencer-equipped automatic pistol on Monday. 
Tate was spotted at the edge of a city park by a resident, who then 

told  officers  manning  a  nearby  
roadblock,  said  Taney  County  
SheriffChuck Keithley.  

"Tate was ready to give up," Keithley said. "The man was getting hungry, he told us. He's been in the woods for several days without a whole lot to eat." 
Authorities found a weapon they think was used in the shootings -an Ingram MAC-10 automatic pistol ­about 20 to 30 feet from where Tate was arrested, said Keithley. 
Tate's arrest was announced before nearly I00 residents and reporters at the Taney County cour­thouse. The residents clapped and cheered when the arrest was an­nounced, and again when Taney County Circuit Judge james justus said that if Tate was convicted, he could face the death penalty. 
Forsyth is about 15 miles from Branson, where Trooper Jimmie Linegar was shot dead and Trooper Allen Hines wounded. 
Tate was arraigned Saturday night before Taney County Circuit Judge James Clifford Crouch on charges of first-degree murder in the slaying of Linegar and first-degree assault in the shooting of Hjnes. 
He was ordered held without bond on the murder charge, and bond was set at Sl million on the as­sault charge. A preliminary hearing was set for April 29, and Tate was taken by motorcade to the Greene CountyJail in Springfield. 
First-degree murder carries a penalty upon conviction ofdeath or life in prison without parole. 

SMC professor named to congressional panel 
By ELLYN MASTAKO 
StaffReporter 
Jerome McElroy, associate profes­sor of business and economics at Saint Mary's, has bee(l appointed to a congressional panel to study "Appropriate technologies to en­hance food, fishery, and fiber pro­duction in the Caribbean and Pacific Island territories of the United States." 
The panel is composed of 24 ex­perts from the United States, the Caribbean, and the Pacific Islands. Their specialties include marine bi­ology, anthropology, political sci· ence, and economics. 
"Our commission is a highly interdisciplinary because we want to get technologies that are integra­ted into political, social, and envi­ronmental systems," said McElroy. 
The panel was chosen by the Office of Technology Assessment, a 12-member bipartisan congres­sional board which provides con­gressional committees with objective ~nalysises of the difficult, and often highly technical issues of the late 20th century. 
The countries to be studied by the panel are Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, Guam, and American Samoa. 
Despite the fact that the federal government is spending $2 billion annually to enhance the self­sufficiency of these islands, the food production of these islands con­tinues to decline. 
"It is in the best interests of the United States for our government to help these islands," said McElroy. "Anything that would strengthen these island economies would strengthen our security interests. We have major military installations on Puerto Rico and Guam." 
McElroy was chosen for this com­mission because of his ongoing re· search on the developmental problems ofsmall Caribbean islands, particularly small-scale agriculture and fisheries. 
McElroy has taught in the Virgin Islands for nine years, during which he became familiar with the eco­nomic problems of this U.S. terri­tory. He was also coordinator of socio:economic research at the Caribbean Research Institute for five years and was director of policy, planning, and research for the Virgin Islands' government for one year. 
The commission will begin its work by reviewing all the literature on the most successful and innovat­ive technologies with regard to small-scale agriculture and fisheries. They then will explore recent tech­nological developments and will make a list of those technologies which are found to be both economically profitable and en­vironmentally adaptable. Finally, the commission will suggest policy op­tions and programs to Congress in order to implement the panel's list ofacceptable technologies. 
The panel, meeting last March to scope out the project, assembled the 
see McELROY, page 5 


The Observer 


In Bri 

PornographiiC videos, aphrodisiacs and obscene materials that "poison pt-ople's minds" were outlawed in China un­der new regulations published Saturday. The State Council ban, which appeared in all leading newspapers, follows official com­plaints that pornography is now readily available in Canton and ot­her Chinese cities. "To protect the mental health of the people and especially youth, safeguard social harmony and ensure smooth progress in socialist modernization, various kinds of salacious material must be strictly banned." Those who attend showings of obscene videos and lilm! will be "criticized and educated," accord­ing to the regulations. -AP 
An 8-year-old boy in Gulfport, Miss. ran a one-man race of 30. I miles Saturd:ly to repay a personal debt to the March of Dimes and collected $2,000 in pledges. "My stepdad and I were thinking they had spent 526,000 on me," said Billy Holder. "Why don't I pay them back? It is sort ofa thank-you." The March ofDimes had contributed to Billy'1; medical bills when he required extensive surgery. Billy, who was born with a diaphragmatic hernia and a slight heart defect, completed the run in five hours and 20 minutes. Billy has run in more than 20 races, but this was his first solo attempt. -AP 
Saint Mary''s lEnglish Professor Joh~ Lowe 
was recently awarded a $21,000 Andrew Mellon Faculty Fellowship in the Humanities by Harvard University. Next year, Lowe will teach a seminar on ethnic literature at Harvard. He also will be studying and writing a book on the: Americanization ofethnic humor, a study on changing patterns of c:thnic humor in American literature. -The Obseroer 
Of Inter 


A special Mass will be celebrated in honor ofSt. George, patron saint of soldiers, tomorrow morning at 8 in Sacred Heart Church. The Mass is bdng sponsored by the Notre Dame Army ROTC. -The Obseroer 
Reverend Leon Sullivan, author of the Sullivan Principles, will speak at ~:30 p.m. today in the Ubrary Auditorium. The Sullivan Principles are a set of guidelines for U.S. corporate be­havior in South Afrka. Notre Dame will invest only in companies which uphold these prir,ciples. The title of the le'cture is "The Sul­livan Principles: The Use of Corporate Power for Human Welfare in South Africa." -The Obse:ver 
Security offi<:ials at Notre Dame are joining state offi­cials in a new program of safety for joggers on campus roads and adjoining streets. )ogge rs are asked to wear colorful and highly visible clothing when ru 11ning. Motorists are reminded that increas­ing numbers of joggers and bikers are using the streets, and are asked to adjust their driving habits accordingly. -The Obseroer 
"The Sound-ness ofthe Isis Gallery" is a 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's undergraduate art exhibition opening tonight in the Isis Gallery of the Riley Art Building from 7 to 9:30. The exhibition's theme is an exploration ofsound in the visual arts of painting, photography, sculpture and poetry. Featured artists are Charles Kromkowsld, M U"gi Tracy and Salvatore Veccio. The exhibi­tion continues through !Iunday, April 29. -The Obseroer 


Weather 
The streak continues. 
Once again it will be sunny today and very warm. Today's high will be 80 to 85 and there is a 20 percent chance of thundershowers. The low will be around 60. llu: streak ofsunny days may not last, however, a:> there is a 70 percent chance of thunderstorms tomorrow with a high around 80. -AP 
I ., •
1:r­
-=o:l 
I~ 
~ 
I 
I 
L 

The Observer 
lbe Obaerver (USPS W9 ;!·•>000) is publl5hrd Monday thtouf!;h Friday and on home football Saturdays, cxcrpt during exam and vacation p<:riods. lbe Obaerver Is published by the students of the I lnlv<:l'llity of Notr<: Dame 'nd Saint Mary's CoUegc. Subscriptions may be purchaMd for 130 p<:r y.:ar ( S20 p<:r ..,. mcst<:r) by writinglbe Obaer•er, P.O 
Box Q, Notr<: Dame, Indiana 46 \~6. 
lbe Obaerver is a mc·mbe,· of lbe Aslloclated PreM. All rcpr :>duct!on right' arc rc..,n·cd. 
Design Editor ................................ Troy Illig 
Design Assistant .................. Andi Schnuck 
Typesel/ers ................................... Mary Ellen 
Ted Dore (retired) News Edltor...............................)ohn Heasly Copy Editor ...................... Mark Pankowski Sports Copy Editor.............. Marc Ramirez Viewpoint Copy Editor .........John Heasly Viewpoint layout................ Kevin Becker Features Copy Editor..~........... Sam Moore Features layout................... Ellyn Mastako ND Day Editor........................... Miriam Hill 
SMC Day Editor............................. Ed Nolan Ad Design .................. Mary Carol Creadon Photographer ............... Chaitanya Panchal 

Monday, April22, 1985-page 2 
McDonald's Campus Airlift joins campus delivery menu 
Domino's delivers. 
So does Pizza Hut. 
And now, McDonald's does too. .. 

Yes, McDonald's is the newest competitor for your on-campus fast food dollars. A week ago today, Campus Airlift went _into full-scale operation, delivering Big Macs and Chicken McNuggets across the Notre Dame campus. 
At an isolated school such as Notre Dame where ma:ny students feel tied to campus, one would expect that such delivery services would be popular with stu­dents bored by Tofu vegetables. 
"Experienced" delivery services show this to be true. Wanda Binney, a manager for Domino's pizza said that during the school year, they do 80 percent oftheir busi­ness at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Pizza Hut ships 20 to 30 pizzas to campus each night, said manager Tom Uttleton. 
It seems there may be a market for hamburgers as well as pizza. 
"Right now, we're getting 



son, 
taxes and delivery costs. 
As ofnow, there is no min­imum order for delivery. The service will be in a test phase until the end of the year. "We want to determine what the students want," said Watson. 
Students may be anxious to have pizza and hamburger trucks pouring into campus, but Notre Dame doesn't always welcome these delivery services with open arms. 
"It took us three years to get it OK'd," said Binney, a manager at Domino's. She said it took Domino's longer to get permission to deliver at Notre Dame than at a:ny school in the country. "Notre Dame is the only school where we have to go tlllrough security to get on (campus)," she added. 
Uttieton, a Pizza Hut manager, said, "Notre Dame is very concerned about who's allowed (on campus) and who's not." 
There has been some confusion as to whether McDonald's actually has permission to deliver on campus. Watson, the restaura:nt's owner, said his 

Amy Stephan 
Managing Editor 
service has "the same kind of approval that anybody else does that delivers out tJilere." 
Watson said he has recei¥ed clearance from Security a:nd has assured Notre Da:me officials that his drivers are fully insured. He said the· nickname of his service. Campus Airlift, caused some to believe that someone other than McDonald's w~ organizing the delivery service. The service is rt~n out of McDonald's of Roseland. 
In an interview with an O~server reporter last week, 
J<?ni Neal, director of stu­
d~nt activies, said that a 
a good response," said Charles Watson, owner of the Roseland McDonald's store which runs the deliveries. A McDonald's manager said they receive about 40 orders a night. He said deliveries take an average of 40 to 45 minutes, although some take a little longer. 
Most items on the regular menu can be delivered, and prices are generally 20 to 30 cents higher than those in the store. According to Wat­
this increase covers "\)nified University policy may have to be set up con­q:rning businesses making deliveries on campus." 

It seems logical that the administration would want tQ) establish guidelines con­q:rning who may and who np.ay not deliver on campus. There are some businesses d/le University certainly would not allow to deliver tl> the dorms. For example, it iS doubtful that any en­t¢rprising businessman hpping to deliver alcohol to 
cilmpus would be en-
ci.mraged by the administra­
tipn. 

If they decide to dtablish such a policy, 
administrators should keep in mind that many students 
appreciate the convenience of on-campus delivery. 
Time constraints and lack oftransportation cause many 
students to rely on delivery l!ervices as a temporary link 
to the outside world. A rushed student can pick up a 
phone and have pizzas, flowers and even balloons 
brought to his or her dorm door. 
Extensive restrictions I concerning on-ca:mpus deliveries would be pointle*'. Ifenough students use a given service to make it profitable, and if the service does not violate University policy (such a'> alcohol deliveries), that service sho~ld be allowed to continue. If no one uses a service, it Vfill die a natural death and restrictions are therefore unhecessary. 
Regardless of what polic~. if any, the administation enacts, Campus Airlift will probably continue soaring at least until the end of this scllool year. And that means a Big Mac is just a phone call alWay. 
The Department of Economics, Notre Dame  
Ask ol)e of the 3million  proudly presents its 1984-SS:speaker series: Can Government  
Americans whdve survived  Programs Reduce Pove.W?.  
cancer, if the money spent on research is worth it.  Charles Mu~ray Author of "Losing Ground: American Social Policy, 1950-1980"  
AMERICANIWCANCER '.SOCIETY'~  Wednesday, April 24,7:30 p.m.1 Memorial Library Auditorium . For further information, contact Economics Dept. University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556  


The Observer Monday, April22, 1985-page 3 
I

\ -,k4 Thousands march in Philadelphia
• 
' \ l 
'-+ 

\~f ~ } to commemorate Holocaust dead 
EveryTI calculator comes with 



one extra number. 
1-800-TI-CARES 
\ Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA Children bearing placards with the names of jewish communities wiped out during World War II led thousands of people in a march yesterday as American survivors ofthe Holocaust remembered their dead. 
The march followed a memorial service that opened the Inaugural Assembly ofthe American Gathering 
\ of jewish Holocaust Survivors. About 5,000 people who withstood the horrors of Nazi concentration camps and their children were in Philadelphia for the three-day gat­hering. The marchers wore blue caps with "remember" written in Hebrew, and youths waved cardboard signs carrying the names of cities such as Rotterdam, Nitra,
f'!'!t Braila, Terni and Regensberg. 
~ 
i "They want to show that the youth are trying to understand what was lost," said Kay Ehrenkrantz, 25, a 
member of Young judea, a jewish youth group. 
The marchers sang and chanted Meet senior Paul Perona'sfriend Larry. The two were seen yes­prayers in Hebrew on the 13-block terday enjoying the fair weather and the Bookstore Basketball walk to Independence Mall. There, 
The Ob~rvcr /Lev Chapclsky 
Hello Larry 
Tournament on the Stepan Courts. 
chillir~n handed white carnations to 

When you buy a Texas Instruments calculator you don't just buy a calculator, you buy Texas Instruments' com,. mitment to quality. 
It's a commitment backed by a fully developed service network that includes the above toll, free number you can call from anyplace in the United States. 
If you have any applications, 
the marchers, who placed them un­der the Liberty Bell. 
Golda Draznin, from Buffalo, N.Y. said her carnation was "to remem­ber my father who got lost in the concentration camp. To pay my respect to him." 
"I am going to put my flower on my own grave," said Genia Klapholz, of Philadelphia. "I was in Auschwitz and I was sentenced to death," she said, her eyes red from tears. , After the ceremony, politicians and religious leaders spoke to the gathering. 
One spectator, Edzia-Frymet Milich ofBeverly Hills, Calif., wore a light blue sweatshirt with big letters that said, "Have you seen my sister Hena Milich?" 
Milich said her sister disappeared in 1946 in Poland. She showed the blue 55496 tatooed on her arm in Auschwitz, and said she survived five camps. 
A "survivor's village" was set up in the Philadelphia Civic Center, where victims of the Nazi camps could meet, eat kosher food and lis­ten to Yiddish music. Also at the center was a computer containing the names of 55,000 Holocaust sur­vivors"Iivin~ in the United States, to 

help people find those lost during  
World War II.  
The marchers first gathered at the  
Monument to the Six Million jewish  
Martyrs, a twisted, black stone  
sculpture that reaches to the sky  
with limbs protruding and hands  
with knives ready to strike.  
Some 6,000 people packed into  
one-block area, silent as speakers'  
voices bounced off walls of nearby  
office buildings.  
As the world commemorates  
World War II, "we think of our  
jewish world that was cut down,"  
said keynote speaker Vladka Meed,  
who fought in the jewish under­ 
ground in Warsaw, Poland.  
"As Hitler unleashed his sys­ 
tematic machine of murder," he  
waited for an outcry from the world,  
Meed said. But "the world paid at­ 
tention only to the military battle,  
not to the war against the jews."  
Marion Wilen, chairwoman of the  
Memorial Committee for the Six Mil­ 
lion jewish Martyrs, criticized Presi­ 
dent Reagan for his scheduled visit to a German military cemetery next month. "His presence will honor the per­petrators ofthat genocide," she said, as the audience hissed and booed.  , 1, 1 ~,  
Alumnus to perform solo show  ~ j 1, 1 1 1  
Special to the Observer  
The legendary Sir Winston Chur­ 
chill will be portrayed in "Churchill:  
The Early Years," by former Notre  
Dame student-performer Mark  
Grimsich on Monday evening at  
7:30 in Carroll Hall at at Saint Mary's.  
His one-man original play, based  
on Churchill's own writings, is the  
result of a senior project which he  
undertook while attending  
Northwestern University.  
Grimsich, a 1980 graduate of  
Northwestern and now a resident of  
New York, attended Notre Dame from 1976 to 1978. A member ofthe Glee Club while at Notre Dame, he also sang with Saint Mary's Madrigal  j  
Singers and participated in several  
theatre productions.  
"At the outset of my work I had  
numerous stereotyped ideas about  
the man and his character," said  
Grimsich. "No sooner had I begun  
reading than I realized that my previ­ 
ous exposure to this historical figure  
was only the proverbial tip of the  
iceberg."  
"The further I explored, the closer I came to understanding the true essence of the man behind the public figure," he said. "Churchill," produced by Face to  1 1 1 1 1 ~  
Face Productions of New York City,  
will be sponsored by Saint Mary's  
history department. Admission is  
free and open to the public.  

Mr. Goodbar  
Here is today's clue, tbe first of five, hinting at the whereabouts ofAn Tostal's elusive Mr. Good­bar.  1 1 l  
Heroes strive long and hard, in the shadow ofthe bard. The place ·to find heavenly bodies best, in that place shall Mr. Goodbar rest.  
When found -and not before, call Mark or Paul at 41 I 5 to verify, orjoyce at 4 I 21.  

operations, or service questions, call us Monday thru Friday between 9 am and 4 pm CST, and we'll be glad to help. 
If your calculator needs repairing, we'll direct you to one of our 46 conveniently located service centers for an immediate exchange. Under warranty, it's free. If there's no center near you, we'll do it all by mail. 
Ofcourse, there's just one catch. It has to be a Texas Instruments calculator. But then, if you're as smart as we think you are, why wouldn't it be? 

TEXAS. 
INSTRUMENTS 
Creating useful products and services for you. 

The Observer Monday, April 22, 1985-page 4 
Nicaragtran leader Ortega agrees to cease-fire if U.S. ends rebel aid 


Granger Tap and Grill 
32 oz. Sirloin for two ....... $15.95 Prime Rib . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.75 12 oz. Lobster Tall .... Market Price 
Come have breakfast, lunch or dinner. ' Cocktails and Sandwiches anytime! Watch the game on our 60 inch TV screen 
Mon.-Sat. 6am-11pm Sun. 8am-9pm 12797 St. Road 23 277-6812 
College of Science Student Council announces the 1985 
Dean's Run 
Distance:  7km (twice around  
thelakea)  
Date:  Sunday, April28  
Time:  12:00noon  
Registration  
Fee:  $4.00  

• 
Tee-shirts for all registrartts 

• 
Please register by Friday April 26 at 5pm in the Dean's Office, 229 NSH 



Last day for measurements 

Caps and Gowns 
Between 9:00 -4:.00 at the 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 



Associated Pr~ 
BOSTON -Nicaraguan leader 
Daniel Ortega said in a message 
Saturday his country would agree to 
an immediate cease-fire ifthe United 
States ends all support for 
Nicaraguan rebels, The BoHon Sun­
day Globe reported. 
The Nicaraguan ~·resident 
presented the message to Senators 
John Kerry, 0-Mass., and Thomas 
Harkin, 0-lowa, after thc:y com­
pleted talks with him in the capital 
city Managua, Kerry told the 
newspaper. 
Ortega also said he would im­
mediately restore civil liberties in 
Nicaragua and end press censorship 
ifthe United States agreed to resume 
bilateral negotiations and end its 
support for the Contras, the senators 
said. 
He also reasserted his country's 
commitment to Central America as a 
Protestors march oJrr Capitol 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Thou:;ands of 
protesters marched oul!ide the 
White House on Saturday to start 
three days ofdemonstrations against 
President Reagan's military buildup 
and policies on South A1rica and 
Central America. 
Protesters massed on tho! Ellipse, 
the park outside the While House 
grounds, then swung up Pennsyl­
vania Avenue toward the Ctpitol for 
a rally. 
A.'i they passed the White House, 
the Rev. Jesse Jackson dropped to 
the pavement and uttered a prayer 
that referred to Reagan's planned 
visit next month to a military 
cemetery in Bitburg, West Germany. 
"Touch our president in some 
special way," the kneeling civil 
rights leader said. "Some place bet­
ween Bitburg and Johanne~burg, let 
him choose another way." 
The demonstration, marking the 
lOth anniversary of the end of the 
Vietnam War, was echoec on the 
West Coast, where 4,000 p::otesters 
marched in downtown Los Angeles 
and others rallied in Seattle. 
"What brings us here is 1:he need 
to reverse the policies of the Reagan 
administration -the inhum<.ne treat­
ment of the U.S. public, especially 
the poor, and of people in Third 
World countries such a:; El Sal­
vador," said Joel Koplit;:, 25, a 
protester in Los Angeles. 
U.S. park police estimated the size of the crowd in Washington at 26,000. March organizers claimed 100,000. 
District of Columbia pJlice Lt. William White said at late afternoon there were no arrests and termed it "a very peaceful demonstralion." 
About 100 counter-demonstrators assembled for an American Conservative Union rally near the Washington Monument and sang "America the Beautiful." 
Busloads of anti-Reagan demonstrators from around the na­tion waved banners and watched mimes and "street theatc:r" at a "Festival of Resistance" on the El­lipse that opened the "April Actions for Peace,Jobs andJustice." 
Eighty groups were listed by protesters as supporti11g the demonstration, includin:~ civil rights, labor, religious, ant war, en­vironmental, veterans and minority organizations. 
The protesters urged a halt to U.S. Intervention in Central .~merica. Congress votes this week on S14 million in aid sought by the ad­ministration for Contra rebels fight­ing the Nicaraguan government. 
zone free of nuclear weapons and peace proposal from the Sandinistas. foreign military bases, including I don't know ifit's in that category or those of the Soviet Union and Cuba. not, but we certainly would like to 
White House spokesman Bob know why the Sandinistas couldn't Sims said late Saturday the ad­accept the offer made some time ministration was not surprised by ago," Sims said. the Sandinista offer, nor was it in­clined to be a go-between for the Kerry and Harkin called the docu­Nicaraguan factions. ment Ortega's first offer of a cease­
"Basically, what the president had fire. proposed is that the Sandinista government deal wi.th their own Kerry said, however, that Ortega's people and not deal through the offer ofa cease-fire did not appear to United States," Sims said. "We feel come as a result of congressional that they should accept the offer al­rejection Tuesday ofaid to the Con­ready made by the Contras for the tras, since that vote concerns a one­cease-fire." 
President Reagan said Saturday time S14 million aid package for this that Nicaragua's leftist regime "may fiscal year. Votes on the aid are put forth an II th-hour so-called scheduled in the House and the peace proposal aimed at blocking Senate this week. aid to the democratic resistance." 
"The president, in his radio The senators' meetings wi.th Or­address yesterday, indicated that we tega took up 26 hours of their 38­would expect some I 1th-hour hour visit. 

WANT A QUICKY? 
Quick tans in our boothes without that sweaty feeling! 
It's never too late to be a bronze God or Goddess 

'IM-HAWAfM 
J.M.s. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 
~­
~ 
UVB boothes & UVA beds 

The Observer Monday, April 22, 1985 -page 5 


Planned cemetery visit by Reagan upsets Jews 

The Observer/Lev Chapelsky
Open mess 
Notre Dame Food Seroices beadedfor the great vegetable bars. Fridays bigb of85 degrees provided outdoors Friday evening for a cookout next to comfortable weather expected to continue through Stepan Center featuring bot dogs and fruit and today. 
Assoon as you get a job,_you could The Card can help you begin to get the American Express® Card. establish your credit history And, for 
If you're a semor, all you need is business, the Card is invaluable for to accept a $10,000 career-orientedjob. travel and restaurants. As well as shop­That's it. No strings No gimmicks. (And ping for yourself. even If you don't have a job right now, Of course, the Ar.~o:~rican Expressdon't worry. Th1s offer is still good up to Card is recognized around the world. 12 months after you graduate.) Why is So you are too. American Express making it easier for So call 1 ~GC-528-4800 and ask to you tog~t the Card right now? ---· ---~--hctve. a Spe-::idl Student Applica-
Well, simply stated, we be-·v··WJ<-;;>.:1~""-~ · tion sent tc you. Or look for one lEwe m your futu~e. And as you i on campu';_
f) ,
go up the ladder, we can help-, '_?_::z q~oGh The P.:m~·;.cs-:. ,_.:~J:.~c:::o~ ,_,ard.. n a lot of ways. , Den i l•.~·t' 
t.n:.=4-£Wo;ii4Wii ~ _ 
L.==:=:::::L___________________ --­
.. 
Associated Press 

FRANKFURT, West Germany ­World Jewish Congress leaders on Saturday assailed President Reagan's decision to visit a German military cemetery and said they would ask Chancellor Helmut Kohl to urge Reagan to cancel the visit. 
"We hope to see Kohl on Sunday. We shall appeal to him to urge Reagan to drop the Bitburg visit," said Israel Singer, secretary-general of the World Jewish Congress, speaking Saturday. 
A delegation of Congress leaders traveled yesterday to Bergen· Belsen, the site ofa Nazi death camp, and expected to meet Kohl before the chancellor spoke at a memorial ceremony there for the victims. 
Reagan, trying to appease criticism at home and abroad about the cemetery visit, said he also would visit a former concentration camp during his May 1-6 visit to West Germany. The U.S. and West German governments announced Friday that Kohl and Reagan will visit Bergen-Belsen together on May 5. 
At Bitburg, 47 bodies of. SS troopers are buried along with nearly 2,000 German soldiers, most ofwhom were killed in the Battle of the Bulge in December 1944. Thousands ofAmerican soldie_rs also died in that battle. 
.... . ~~.. :::ch.,_~ <.-i~Lcut lt."M  
•  


"We hope to prevail on Kohl and to convince him that he and Reagan are making a mistake by visiting the Bitburg cemetery," Singer told The Associated Press."The problem has to be solved by Kohl. He could become the hero ofthe day," he said, and Reagan should "stay at home" until he's reassessed the subject. 
"The president has shown great 
misunderstanding of the issue. He 
needs a lesson on what happened in 
Nazi Germany," Singer added. 
He said his delegation would propose to Kohl that Reagan visit in­stead the grave of former West Ger­man chancellor Konrad Adenauer, a staunch anti-Nazi leader throughout World War II who served as chancel-· lor from 1949 through 1962. 
"We have the greatest respect for Adenauer and that would be real act 1
,
ofreconciliation," Singer said. 
.,
Kohl said earlier he understood 
1
Jewish concern over the cemetery 
,1
visit. 
.,
, 
~
McElroy ,1 1 
continuedfrom page 1 
literature necessary to study exist· ing technologies. They also began to identify the most crucial problems 
1 of the islands and designated some ofthe researchers to do the commis­sion papers. 
"My main concern is that we really understand why agriculture is in decline," said McElroy. "My second hope is that the technologies will be quite accessible to the farm­ers and the fishermen. That means small scale," he said, adding, "What good is high technology if it is beyond the capacity of the family farmer to operate and maintain?" 


, 
,1 , 1 
1 
, 
, ~ ,
-the 
,1 in~ '7,cdor limi-t?J edition , Ii-ttleijrttpf1 ~ 1 
~ t..~ HeNVfli t:=: e&ition t ana 
~~OLO~ tlOMe!' ,1 
.atfi~~~ ~ ~'lf~illftmFNV 
~t7 ~tl('-tvi.O.TO '" 
Het;W;t~ ~ltfH ~1Ut710 1104 WiOti AV~NU~ ~~IH~~
INP.~ ~ 'J-i_~~lf' ~ w~. 





~i~~[~_()__i_ll__t__________________
M_on-da-y,_Ap-ril-22-,1-98-5--pa-ge-6 
Reagan escapes the blame for his many errors 
Ronald Reagan is one of the more unique presidents in American histOf}. His unusual wit combined with his uncanny ability to overcome adversity has made J:.im one of the most popular and skillful presidents to date. 
Simply by laughing and jok,ng about the many blunders he has committc:d, Reagan can 
Michael Froning in the minority 
make the public forgive and forget faster than you can say "Gipper." In additi<•n, Reagan is a master at shifting the blame to help him escape out of many a political jam. 
These qualities have helped Reagan rise to almost unprecedented popularity no matter what he says or does. And it is Vlith this politi­cal charisma that the President has been able to get away with many a blunder no other politician would be allowed to live with, and
' r implement contradictory foret1:n and domes­
r tic policies. President Reagan has probably committed' more blunders than the last ten presidents r combined. Yet Reagan seems to escape every 
' 
mishap without any visible scars. The public invariably forgets whatever blunder was com­mitted, no matter how serious. 
A classic example of a forgotten blunder is when while attempting to deft-nd his record 
Casey owes Pettifer an apology for his remarks 
DearEditor: 

I would like to take this opportunity to apologize to Ann Pettifer on behalf of Daniel Casey if he is not wiUing to do :>o. 
That he disagrees with the v.ay Pettifer per­ceives things is fine -and "The Observer is an appropriate forum in which to present that disagreement. When one resorts to personal attacks in order to defend a stance, however, then one has gone too far. 
Casey's letter does not in any way attempt to juggle the complexities of 1:he role of wo­men in the Church, an issue with which Pet­titer is frequently concernecl, and instead turns to sarcasm and di~;tortion in a "grandstanding" fashion in order to express his intense dislike for her views. 
Daniel Casey is a good writc:r, but why not argue with Pettifer, instead ofatacking her? If you are Catholic and do ha.ve a personal inter­
r 
est in the things she discusses, please contrib­
~ Doonesbury
r 
r 
r 
I 
r 
r 
~ 
on social programs, Reagan blurted out that 
he had never cut Social Security, when in fact, 
it was one ofthe first programs to receive cuts 
during his first term in office. 
But even though this was clearly more than 
just forgetting the facts, the President 
managed to get out of the situation without 
suffering any consequences. The President 
has repeatedly managed to avoid any trouble 
from such false statements as these. 
But perhaps the best example of a serious, 
but now forgotten blunder, was when, not 
knowing he was on the air, the president 
casually said that we were going to bomb Rus­
sia. 
A statement like this can have tremendous 
political ramifications and is not something to 
be taken lightly. Yet he simply brushed it off 
by joking about it and complaining that the 
press picked on him too much. This tactic 
struck a note in the public's heart and the inci­
dent was forgo_tten. 
Reagan's political charisma has also allowed 
him to implement contradictory foreign and 
domestic policies without having them really 
challenged by anyone. 
In the foreign realm, Reagan advocates aid to help the contras, a political party in Nicaragua which uses guerilla tactics in an at­tempt to overthrow the legitimately estab­lished government of Nicaragua. Reagan's reasoning is that the present government of 
•Nicaragua is not democratic enough and that 


P.O.BoxQ 
ute to the community dialogue by explaining, not preying. Maybe then we can all enjoy our lunches a bit more. 
GibGailius GraceHall 
Pettifer may be right to question the Church 
DearEditor: 
The least Daniel Casey can do for Ann Pet­titer is publish an apology and a retraction to his pointless editorial ofApril 16. 
I wonder how the Caseys of the world can really doubt Pettifer's words. What evidence do they have? And why respond with such ab­surd chauvinistic slander? 
Perhaps they fear that Pettifer just may be right. Has our loving Holy Father,john Paul II, opened his arms to the women ofthe Church? Unfortunately, no. Even the Vatical II Council fell pitifully short of treating women with even a shred of decency. Surprised? It seems the superiors of the world's larger female reli-

Editorial Board Department Managers 
(219) 239-5303 

Ed•tor·tn-Chtel . Sarah E. Hamolton Bustness Manager Davod Stephenotch 
it doesn't adhere to many democratic prin­ciples.· 
Yet Reagan supports the government ofthe Philipines, which is a blatant dictatorship void of many democratic principles which we hold to be self-evident. For instance, the Philippine government does not allow free elections or freedom ofthe press which are two very basic democratic principles in the minds of most Americans. 
Domestically, Reagan's contradictory policies can be observed right now during the budget talks. Reagan has said that federal spending must be sharply cut, and that every­one must lend a helping hand. Yet in his first proposed budget, he made a major cut in al­most every area except defense, which took a very measly one. 
Reagan is also an expert at shifting the blame in order to make someone else looklike the bad guy. For instance, he has constantly said that he will never raise taxes to balance the budget. Yet Reagan knows as well as anyone that that is what will eventually have to happen to help balance the budget. 
By saying he will never raise taxes, Reagan has put Congress in a position where they have to do it, and therefore they wiU look like the bad guys. This type ofskillful campaigning has let him escape embarrassment and blame many a time when it has finally seemed that he made a lasting mistake. 
This inconsistency has enabled Reagan to run roughshod over our political system. He 
gious orders were not even invited to partici­pate in the deliberations of the council. Also, at the council's official liturgies, these women had to remain on the outskirts of the congre­gation, which was quite a distance in a 2,000­plus congregation. 
These women were then forbidden to receive the Eucharist. Ifthey attempted to do so, they were forcefully turned back in the aisles. This is extremt;ly interesting behavior coming from a council that would write, "For it is through the liturgy, especially the divine Eucharistic Sacrifice, the 'the work of our redemption is exercised' " (Sacrosanctum Concilium). 
Given incidences like this, one can at least understand the mentality of such a narrow­minded Church hierarchy when it attempts to confront problems such as birth control. 
just as the Church refuses to deal with wo­men, it refuses to deal with birth control. 
Pretending to know the issue a priori, the Pope issues a naive "No," pretending the problem will vanish. 
Perhaps, after all, teenagers and young adults really \\ill learn to ignore their sexual desires. 
Garry Trudeau 
simply advocates or implements any policy he 
wishes and when it happens to be one that the 
public does not agree with, he always 
manages to shift the blame and avoids accoun­
tability for his decisions. 
This ability has given Reagan a tremendous 
advantage over the American public. By not 
being accountable, he can implement 
whatever policies he fancies, even if they are 
not supported by the people. He has already 
begun by proposing many undeserved cuts in 
social programs, continued high military 
spending for MX missiles and "Star Wars," and 
even renewed aid to the contras. 
The American pe~ple and Congress must be on their toes at all times. We all must make sure that our president does not implement policies that we do agree with, like cuts in education and social programs. Congress has the ability to check the president, but that won't matter if we do not play our part and write our congressmen expressing our view­point. 
Ifwe all do a little something, maybe we <.an 

keep Reagan from making a shambles of our 
country and economy in his last term. If we 
continue to let him push us around, the conse­
quences to our society and future administra­
tions could be devastating. 
Michael Froning is a Freshman Arts and Letters major atNotre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnis,t. 
What happens unfortunately, as Pettifer wrote, is that "... pregnant adolescent girls, residually affected by teachings on chastity, believe that sex without birth control reduces its sinfulness." 
One would be tremendously understating the problem to say llie Church handled this problem without tact. The Church has yet to handle the problem ofbirth control. 
As long as the Church is cursed with popes convinced a priori they are infallible on all issues yet to arise, the popes of the Church will continue to err. 
As long as the Church is cursed with pontifs in the spirit of men like Gregory XVI ( 1831­1846, famous for his condemnation of the in­vention of the steam engine), who condemn instead of confront the issues of the world today, it will never really understand why wo­men like Pettifer can so accurately find the Church's faults. 
And it is hoped that people like Pettifer will still be around pointing out faults so accurate and obvious. 
GaryKopycinski GraceHall 
Quote of the day 

"Those who hate you don,t win unless you hate them. And then you destroy yourself." 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managmg Ed1tor Amy Stephan AdvertiSing Manager Anne Culltgan
The Observer IS the tnd€ pend en( newpaper published by the students of the 
News Ed1tor Ke1th Hamson Jr Controller Btl I Htghducheck
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
News Ed1tor Dan McCullough Systems Manager Mark B Johnson
reflect the policies of the adrnin1strat1on of either institution. The news IS reported as 
Samt Mary"s Execut•ve Edlfor Theresa Gua,fio Product•on Manager John A Mennell
accurately and as ob,ect1vel·1 as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion 
Sports Editor. Jeff Blumb
' of a maJOrity of the Edttona I Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Accent Ed1tor Mary Healy r present the vtews of then attthors. Column space ts available to all members of the V1ewpolfit Ed•tor Joe Murphy 
r 
communoty. and the free expesston of varymg optnions on campus, through letters. Photography Edt/or Peter C Laches IS E:IICOuraged CopyCh1ef Frank Lopo Founded November 3, 1966
r 

Accent 
Monday, April22, 1985-page 7 
Rock 'n' roll is alive and (mostly) well 
Irish, English artists shine, American singer bores 
Legend returns to rock with soul 
Keith Harrison Jr. 


Record review 
A 
little more than a year ago, Warner Bros. Records chose not to extend the contract ofrock legend Van Morrison, a move as unimaginable as the Cincinnati Reds dropping Pete Rose. But now Morrison is back, with a new record company and a powerful new record titled· A Sense ofWonder. 
For those who don't know, Van Morrison is the voice behind the 1966 rock classic "Gloria," which he sang as the leader ofthe Irish rhythm and blues band Them. After leaving Them, Morrison's early solo work continued in the same raucous vein, although a soul influ­ence soon appeared and led to such hits as "Brown Eyed Girl." 
In recent years, however, Mor­
rison's records have been more 
subdued, as he deepened the soul­
fulness ofhis work and even delved into jazz fusion. The mellow Van Morrison never sold very well, however, which led to the abrupt contract termination at Warner Bros. 
But Polygram Records gave Mor­rison another chance, and he has responded with a record which successfully blends the rough­edged r&b of his early years with his more serene recent work. 
. The R&B Morrison opens the album, starting with the single "Tore Down ALa Rimbaud." Trum­pets and gospel backup vocalists punctuate each line ofthe chorus, and Morrison's singing is reminis­cent ofhis most soulful work. Not only is it a great song, but it's even getting airplay in South Bend. 
His recent problems with record companies and album sales obvi­ously led Morrison to cover Mose Allison's "IfYou Only Knew." The 
music is bluesy, and the words 
follow suit: 
Ifyou only knew what could hap­
pento 
a manfor telling the truth. 
Ifyou only knew all the scruples 
that go down in gin and vennouth. 
I wouldn't want to steer you wrong 
but ifyou want to sing your own 
song 
You're gonna have to lose a few 
Ifyou only knew. 
There are a few flaws on A Sense ofWonder. In a few spots, for in­stance, the mysticism borders on silliness. Also, Morrison includes the in­strumental, "Boffyflow: and Spike," which is the weak point ofthe album. Morrison's voice is almost always the highlight ofhis albums, so why include any instrumentals in the first place? 
But these are minor flaws. Songs like the beautifully hypnotic "Ancient ofDays" are much more representative ofA Sense of Wonder. Morrison has been making brilliant albums like this for twenty years. It's about time someone started listening. 


TFF: 111usic to think and dance to 
beautifully uses Oriental influences in evoking strong visions ofpeace and contentment.


Tom Tierney 
Other songs of note are "Mother's Talk," a funky song

Record review 
whose chanted lyrics inspire the listener to overcome the problems in life which one's mother tried to 

T
ears for Fears' new album, Songs "Shout," the album's first single, "protect" one from, and "The from the Big Chair, shows a new has an uplifting synthesizer melody Working Hour"; powered by a musical and spiritual direction for and inspiring lyrics which encour­distinctive saxaphone and piano this English quanet. Their brilliant age people to hold on to their melody, it makes a forceful state­first album, The Hurting, was a beliefs and values and to break free ment in challenging people to ques­melancholy reflection on the sor­ofcategories and labels that others tion and constructively change the row and pain so prevalent in human assign them. "Everybody Wants to conditions people live under, for ".. lives. Songs from the Big Chair again Rule the World" is the current .we are paid by those who learn by touches on pain and suffering, but single, getting airplay on Top 40 our mistakes." also focuses on the strength to radio and MTV, and the best song Songs from the Big Chair indi­overcome and rise above the co.n­on the album. With a warm and cates that Tears for Fears are placency so prevalent in the world. cheery feeling, it celebrates moving away from dwelling on 
freedom and pleasure, and urges sorrow and pain, and are instead While all the songs on the album 
everyone to make the most oftheir focusing on the strength to are well-crafted, and a few simply 
lives, for "nothing ever lasts overcome them. This change of 
j stunning, the album's greatest forever" in a world with the "lack of direction is what gives Songs from strength lies in the breadth and 
vision" of nuclear weapons. the Big Chair its vitality. There is depth of the songs. Unlike those of 
Another gem on the album is a more to Tears for Fears than what many other groups, these are pop song buried at the end ofside two. can be heard on the radio or seen 
l
songs with a message. "listen," a slow, sparse piece, onMTV. 
i 


This leftover rock not fit for dogs 
JohnMenneU 
Record review 

I 
t is fitting that the copyright of Manin Briley's new album, Dan­gerous Moments, is owned by Miserable Melodies. 
The album is filled with them. 
The sticker on the jacket that lists "sure" hits warns us that the album contains "Dangerous Moments." The only danger involved is in dying ofboredom while listening to this album. 
The first side is one monotonous and laborious love song which is broken up only by five different titles; things fare no better on the flip-side. The title cut, "Dangerous Moments," has the power and thrust ofa spent rocket booster drifting through space, a feeling that dominates the album. 
Mo~ of the songs share the same beat, and demonstrate just how little variety one man's voice can have. Briley's nasal vocals can only be described as unattractive and dull; the only way to vary the sound is to change the speed on the turntable. None ofthe songs could be described as up-beat or down­beat; they are all middle-of-the-road and insipid. The point here is that the songs aren't even horrible or offensive (a Ia Spinal Tap); they are as bland as lukewarm water. 
The one song that stands out because of its humorous content is "School for Dogs." The chorus tells the tale: 
You may be man's best friend Butifyou're badI'm gonna send you To theschoolfordogs 
The song is the story ofa pet whose loyalty Briley questions. It is noticeably different from the start, as the back-up vocals are done by a contingent of the Mormon Taberna­cle Canine Choir. 
The whole album is an unam­bitious effort. Briley seems either scared to experiment and explore with different sounds -or he is just unimaginative. It is generally shal­low, uninspiring and comparable to listening to the Emergency Broad­cast System Test; it's definitely not worth the price of an album today, and is probably not worth the vinyl it was pressed on. 




Sports Briefs 
The off-campus tennis teamwon the interhall tennis tournament sponsored by NVA on Saturday. 0-C had 61 points to edge out Grace Hal, which earned 46 points. lewis nar­rowly beat runner-up Brecn-PI1illips, 30-27, in the women's division. Tim Hasava ofO-C took the singles crown, while Bruce Blondin, also from the 0-C team, was seccnd. Jery Roerty and John Schmidt of Grace won the men's doubles •:ompetition. In the women's competi­tion, louisa Demello of BP won the singles crown, while Valerie Demello, also ofBP, came in st cond. Stacy Seim and Brigid Kleideren of lewis won the doubles competition. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will be meeting tomorrow at H p.m. in room 123 of the 1\ ieuwland Science Hall to discuss the Midwest Sprints. An officer:; meeting will precede the general meeting at 7:30p.m. -The Ob~;en1er 
Gene Corrigan, Notre Dame athletic director, and Donald Barrett ofthe sociology department will discuss problems in collegiate athletics tomorror.J at 9 p.m. on "Speaking of Sports" on WVFI AM-64. Listeners may contribute their comments and ques­tions by calling cohost.~ Cht1ck Freeby and Vito Gagliardi at 239­6400. -The Obsen•er 
The AnTostal golf tournament will be held 
tomorrow at 11 a.m. at the E·urke Memorial Golf Course. Any pairs who arc interested in playing in the tournament should call 283­2021 or 2H3-20 13. An enttra11ce fee of S1 will be charged, and prizes will be awarded.-The Obsen•er 
AnTostal slatn dunk contest spaces ;tre still 
available for the 10-foot competition. Anyone who is interested 
should call Dan Sullivan at 2H3· 1 184 or Bob Spoonmore at 283­
1307. -The Obsen!er 

The Irish Guard will hold an organizational meeting Thursday at 4 p.m. on Gre•:n Field. Anyone who is interested in trying out should attend. For more information, call Chris at 283­17H3. -The Obsen'er 
WVFI Sports still :tas a number of openings for on-air tal­ent and a football statistician. Anyone who is interested should call Pete Pranica at 2H3-1938 or 239-S379. ·The Observer 
"Mr. Sweet-C nobinson," a professional kick boxer who works in the Ste;>an Chemistry Building at Notre Dame, will be fighting Terry Gay on Saturday at Brookdale High School in Elkhart. The 30-year-old middleweight of the Professional Karate Assosiation owns an H-3-1 record in one-and-a-half years of kick boxing. -The Obsen•er 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs should be written on the forms provided at the office, and the name and phone number ofthe person submitting them must be included. ·· The Observer 
Monday, April 22, 1985-page 8 
Sifting out the final 32 • • • 
Todly'a Gem" 
Stepen 1 
4:45-Dribbling Dyxz v. Phi Runna Gunna 
5:30-Don't Laugh v. Rousseau's Noble Savages 
6:15-Byrne's By-Products v. Fastest White Guy on Campus & 4 Orange .. Stepen 2 4:45-81g Black Mac Attack v. Tofu Vegetables I 
5:30 -Gringos & a Stump v. 5 Horsemen of the Apoclaypse 6:15-Flankin· Idiots v. Josephus & the Ethiopian Shim-Sham Stepen3 4:45-The Uncoachables v. That's Why They Call Us The Cruisers 
5:30-4 Fags & a Zahmbie v. If It Weren't For Fat Girls We'd Never .. 
6:15 -lack of Originalityv. Armed & Dangerous Ill Stepen4 
4:45. Weethy's Warriors v. This Is a Dictatorship 
5:30 -The Chairmen of the Boards v. Inspector Thomas & the Private Eyes 6:15-Demented Doormats v. Revenge of the Fun Bunch Stepen 5 6:15-4 Dingleberrieslooking for... v. 4 Guys Who Still Wonder Why.. 7:00-Showtime v. Phillips 
Stepen6 
6:15-Nutmeggers v. Gerry's Kids 
7:00-First Source Bank Travelling All-Stars ... v. Mixed Company 7:45-Dangling Manhood v. Maladroits 
Stepan7 
6:15-Return of the Queef v. Rhythm Method 
7:00-WBBS Goes Off the Air v. last Minute Entry 
Stepan8 
6:15. Revenge Factor v. Five Architects 
7:00 -Mr. Coffey & the Non-Dairy Creamers v. 
Poddle Goes to Russia Bookatore9 
4:45 -Keenan Inmates v. Runnin' & Gunnin' Sanches 
5:30. Pedl's Pirates v. Tequila White Ughtmng 6:15-Slime v. Hawaii Five-0 Bookatore 10 4:45-Red Barons v. Chicks Dig Us Now That We Are Seniors 6:15-Jimmy G. & the Spots v. DSB's Half Aga~n Their Original Size 
Lyona11 4:45-FAQ II v. Pee Wee & the Wee Bees 5:30· 4 People & a Short FatGuyv. 2 Dillon Sweet­
water Dudes & 6:15-Rhythm Method II v. The Intimidators Lyona12 4:45-Cubs Lose' v. Ed Smierciak & 4 Other Guys Better Than John Paxson 5:30-6 Shooters v. 5 Ethiopians Hungry To Win 6:15-Let's Go Crazy v. Yank My Doodle. It's a Dandy 
Women'• Bookatore Stepan 1 4:00-Going All The Wayv. 2 Enlightenment Souls. 2 Healers & an Embezzler Stepan 2 
4:00 -3 Wenches, a Smick & a Hatcheck v. 
Negligence Stepan3 
4:00 -5 Women Who Want To Go All the Way v. Why Stepan 4 
4:00-Violent Femmes v. Does On Their Own Bookstore 9 
4:00-Foul Trouble v. Slammers Bookatore 10 4:00-QUixotic Qu~nt v. We Shave Points But Not For Drugs 

Lyona11 4:00-RTHBKA v. Dialectics Lyonat2 4:00-DUI's v. Skippies Need Not Apply 
Y..terday·a R"ulta 
Stepan 1 
That's Why They Call Us the Cruisers over 
Torlbusters by 3 

Weethy's Warriors over Foley's Runners by 11 
4 Horsemen of the Apocalypse over Toe Jamb, 
Queef Juice ... by 2 Byrne's By-Products over 4 Guys Who Go All They Way. bytt Josephus & the Ethiopian Sh1m Sham over 905 Ra1dersby8 WBBS Goes Off the Air over The Mishawaka Ex­perience by 12 Poddle Goes To Russia over Chuck's Social Hand· icaps by 7 
Stepan2 
Uncoachables over Team Many Martoonies by 9 
This Is a Dictatorship over Vacuum Effect by 7 
4 Fags & a Zahmb1e over Joihnny BarbUIIder & the Mouse Family by 11 The Fastest White Guy On Campus & 4 Orange. over Rag~n· Ray's CPAs by 3 First Source Bank Travelling All-Stars & Motor Kings over The Hit Men by 6 
Last Minute Entry over Vanilla Thunder by 8 
FAQ II over Keith (Magic) Lomax & 4 Other Guys 
Who Like to Show by 6 

Stepan3 
Tofu Vegetables I over Shysters by 2 
Don't Laugh over Aga1nst All Odds by 7 
If It Weren't For Fat Girls We'd Never Get Sex over 
Spudsby8 

Showtime over PB & Who Knows by 10 
Mixed Company over 4 Delinquents & Our Lawyer 
by3 

Demented Doormats over 4 Rink Rats & a Zamboni 
Driver by 3 

Pee Wee & the Wee Bees over Private Club by 6 
Stepan4 
B1g Black Mac Attack over Homeboys. 22-20 
Rousseau's Noble Savages over Badfinger ... The Finale by 16 The Chairmen of the Boards over Ray Meyer, Jerry Tarkanian. by 11 • Phillips over That's What Made It Such a Beautiful Gesture On My Part by 7 Lack of Originality over Swahllis-The Final Chap­ter Revenge of the Fun Bunch over Gumby, Bloody Gumbyby 14 Red Barons over Los Malandros by 2 
Stepan 5 
Phi Runna Gunna over Haynes's Hackers by 7 
4 Gringos & a Stump over You Can Have Them Lengthened by 8 
Inspector Thomas & the Private Eyes over Team X by 13 
Flank~n'ldiots over Prepare To Meet Your Maker by 
3 

Armed & Dangerous Ill over Pigsters by 15 Mr. Coffey & the Non-Da1ry Creamers over Wild, Wooly & Wicked by 14 Chicks D1g Us Now That We Are Semors over Shooting C-Men by 6 Stepan6 Dribbling Dyxz over Hey, Shi-Happens. 22-20 
Bookatore9 
Cubs Lose' over Law School Sucks by 9 
4 People & a Short Fat Guy over Arsenal Gunners by2 Maladroils over The Old & Injured by 10 Rhythm Method II over Rat Patrol by 9 Nutmeggers over Not Good Enough For a Real 
Nameby8 
4 Dingleberr•es & a Kresg1e over 4 Geeks & a P1ss Little Ship let's Go Crazy oller 2 Puds & 3 Other Tools Bookatore 10 Ed Sm1erczak & 4 Other Guys Better over Chicks are Dumb b~ 15 2 Dillon Sweetwater Dudes & 3 . over Spudz Zaremba & the. by 9 Six Shooters ovrr Cubs Lose, Cubs lose, Cub Lose by 11 
Thelnt1m1dators over GyAySyH by 7 
Gerry's Kids over Kmghts of MBA by 4 
4 Guys Who Still: Wonder Why Barney. over The Pedophilic Day. by 11 Yank My Doodle] It's a Dandy over A Sophomore & 4 Guys From Shit "'IIey by 6 
Lyonatt 
Keenan Inmates over Robots in D1sguise by 10 
Pedi's Pirates o~erThe Dougherty Dudes by 10 
5 Ethiopians H~ngry to Win over Drunk Driver Aga~nst Mothers by 6 Return of the O~eel over Lumpy Cheese by 9 Jimmy G. & the j)pots over Boo's Bar by 10 Slime over Sverl & the Flaccid 4 by 3 Revenge Factor over The Creamers by 2 
Lyona12 Runnin' & Gun~1n' Benches over Relax We'll Do by4 Tequila White L•ghtn•ng over 5 Guys Worse Tha Tim Kempton by 13 Dangling Manh~d over The Supreme Couriers b 
10 
Rhythm Method over Chicks D1g Fred Bassett by 
OSB's Half Agf$m Their Onginal Size over Gree 
Wienees. 22-20 · 
Hawaii F1ve-O over Crib Death at Grandma's by 8 
5 Architects ov~ lncompretics by 2 
Phillies get Tekulve 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-The Philadel­
phia Philli:es traded left-handed 
relief pitcher AI Holland and a 
minor league player to the Pit­
tsburgh Pilratcs for right-handed 
reliever Kent Tekulve on Satur­
day. , 
Hollandi 32, who was selected to the All-Star team last year, is 0­I with onF save this season. In seven previous seasons in the major leagues, he had a 32-2'; record and a .269 ERA with 73 
saves. 
Tekulvel 38, is in his 12th major Ieag~Je season, all with the Pirates. the 6-foot-4, I 8';­pounder hit.~ no record this year, but in 724 major league games has 70 vidtories and ISH saves. All have been in relief. 

The Obsat•a Notrl' Dam.-offin·. locat.-<.1 on til<' third floor of LaFortune ~tudent <.enter. anTpt' cla"ifinl adn·rti,ing from r> .I m until ·I p 111 .. ,\londal through l'rida1 lbe Obsert•er Saint Man·, offitT. l<'tatnl on the third floor of Haggar Collt-gc· <.enter. .ttTt·pr-da"ifit-tb from I J .\0 p 111 until .\ p 111 . ~lon· day though Frida1· lkadlin.-t<>r nt·xt·dav c·la"rn,Jd, " .i p.m All cla"ifinb must h.-prepat<.l. t'ith.-r 111 pc·rson or h1 mail <:harg~· ;, I 0 n·nt' pe-r fin· d1arac·



Classifieds 
ters er day I 
Loet  navy  blue  pull-over  windbreaker  ROOM MATE WANTED to share ND apt  6 UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE, NO­ DESPERATELY NEED GRAD TICKETS  The second annual  
NOTICES  made by Jos.Bank.Lost on Saturday at the tenn•s courts.if found pleue call Joe  for 85-86. Call Tim,2546.  MEMORIAL AREA. EXCELLENT CON­DITION 233-9728 232-4528  PLEASE CALL JJ 1703  SMCNIC is coming soon.  
at3498.  Staying in S. Bend for the summer? We  
TYPING CALL CHIUS 234-8117 WOROI'tiOCIUING • 277-4045.  LOST:A pair of brown-framed preacrip­tion gl818ea(not in cue). Loet 4/12. If found please call Ellie-1258.  are looking for subleasers for June, July, and half of Aug at Turtle Creek. Call Kath­leen at 2596 or 2627. Will negotiate price. end ad  FOR SALE: couch and rug. a decorators delight! Must see to appreciate , call Tom or Mike attOOO.  PERSONALS  GOO() LUCK. FRANCES DEFREITAS Beong Band President IS almost as exCII­'"9 aa be~ng my roommate.  
TYPING 2n-8534 attw 5:30 W•llpra• nat,.and Typing 272-3827  Loet: Blue jean jacket at a off-<:ampua party on 3/29. Please call Jean at 284­5024.  WANTED  . moving ule Trundle beda, Colonial Mllple Ch..t, Small Dropleef Table, O..k & Chair, Gold C.rplll Remnant, Large TV Stand, 2-SheH Stand, 011  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  THIS IS DAY 371... Shorta and Shedea  
LOST:  . about 4 months ago. 1 pair of  Palntlnge w/Fram.., Dlah... cell 23&­ is coming  
Word Pr~ng and Typ1ng R.urmte, Lettera, Papera, Documenta Cell 234­2380 TYPING· CAU. ANDfiiEA • 2U-JI80 UPIJIT TYPING HRVICI. CALL ltiRS. COKER, 2»-7001. COU.I!GIATI! TYPING, IIY HOIII. 277· lOIII Be Smartll Sell your texta and_..,... for S$ before the ruahll M-F.BIT 12~ pm. We lllao '*'Y a wide...,_ al Clff and Monarch Not•. PandorM llooka,837 So.Bend Ave.•1 block from Corby'a. LOST/FOUND I ................................................................ LoeT: WUTSIIUSINUS LAW 110[)1(  glaaaes with brown rim in a gray case. If found please call2700. FOUND: One women's high school cl818 r1ng with Initials MCH InSide. Found in McCandless Hall SMC. Cell Julie 284­5458. LOST: I lost my room, car. and even houae keys...also there were two key chaulO and a cleat lightener. It happened behind Lyons on Tuesday. I need em bad. REWARD-one of my first born pups to whoever returns them! Joihn 3592. 336 Momssey. :HELP Heve II"• M-llall cal' ...,. lvbo• uo••d -lttia;v an oa a red kev c..... aad wen lo-d o• tbe Held bo•M q••d pleaM c:all TROY at 1699 LOST ONE ND DEEP BLUE JACKET IN NORTH DINING HALL PLEASE  I NEED GRAD. TIX! Please call L1ss at3544. HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX, TO­GETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP TRYING!I SALES ENGINEER, Utility and Industrial Boilers, Fluid Bed Boilers, Co-generation Systems, Waste Incineration, Pulverizers and Stokers-­Riley Stoker Corp., call 312-692-5050 Ride or R1ders Needed to Indianapolis 4/26 C&ll3880 ROOMATES/ROOM WANTED: For the 85-86 school year. Preferably law school students. Call Jim at283-1157. Need riders to COLUMBUS/OSU Thur 4/25. Need ride from WASH DC area or columbus Sun 4/28. Pat3660  5476 Deya, 234-5624 Evening• 6-10 TICKETS HEY SENIORS! NEED GRADUATION DESPARATELY!!!!! WILL PAY HUGE BUCKS!! PLEASE CALL M ...RIA IS ERN­4304. NEED GRADUATION TICKETS (3) REALLY BADLY • • PLEASE HELP. CALL MEL AT 283-3716. WILL EVEN PAY YOU FOR THEMII NEED 4 GRADUATION TIX. CALL KEVIN AT 287·6262 BUT ONLY AFTER CALUNG MEL FIRSTII NEED 2 GRAD TIX -Please call Mike at 2263 anytime HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX, TO­GETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE  YOCIUS is Atroc1ous. HELPII NEED 1 OR 2 TIX, TOGETHER OR SEP· ARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEPTRYINGII DON'T MISS: THE MR. CAMPUS COM­PETITION!! 8 PM THURS. OF AN TOS· TAL (SMC-ANGELA) It's 11:11 and my wish is that YOU would stop playing games with ME! CONf RICH--Have a good time this Sat. with Timo. Tell him I said good luck in the play. C.C. True love means shaving your neck for you. Boxereahowtng?  LOSli:BLUE NIKE NYLON RUNNING PAN1S ATLYONS B-BALL COURTS ON SUN.APR!l14,1985. CALL JOHN 1134. .,.~···,t~··· COLOR···BLINO··· MYSTERY EASTER BUNNY---I don't know who you are, bul thanks for the Easter basket -Shar<j>n E. Odd Quacflt Supporters of the right to be house-Wives...at least for 5 years. ,J.. OWIE-Basically it's like this Happy Birthday-LOVEGOOBER D~~J;~;R~~i~~d·~~·~·~~·~·~;~g·p~~~k·~~~ lately'ilf so it was probably SMC 4345.Why not return the favor, they'd love to hear from you!! ........,.................................................... TOM, HAPPY BIRTHDAY FROM SPAIN LOVE MAURA ........,......................................... ATTENTION N.D. BAND: VOTE  
ACOIID IUIIllON AT LUNCtt 4/11 AT SOUTH DIMNG HAU. FfM)II ON TOP OF ntl! CIQAII~ IIIACHIML TO ntl! "SC:U~" WHO "IIOMOWUI" IIY 8()01(, PUAA MTUII'IN IT TO ntl! SPOT ...­YOU "IWINOUD" IT. IF YOU, THI LOHil, HAS ANY CLAU, YOU WU  RETURN TO 715 FLANNER. NO ?'S ASKED. I FOR SALE FOR RENT I B~smart'S~iy~~·;·cl~b~k;;'b;i.;;:~ih~ ................................................................ rush. Mon.-Fri between 12 and 4. Save$  CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP TRYING!! GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED! Five of them. For real money. Cal 288-0330. Please. INEED 3 GRADUATION TICKETS call  The girls hate it, but you can do it at Shorts and Shades this Saturday. I'll take Dining Hall Foods for $100, Bill. HELP!! I AM IN DIRE NEED OF ONE MORE GRADUATION TICKET!!! PAR­ENTS WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T COME  PATTY SUE STAGER FOR SOCIAL CHAIRMAN ......+..................................................... ATTENTION SENIORS ONLY PRI!-ANTOSTAL IIASH WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24 9-1, SMC  


RITUIIIIIT. IIY IS ON ntii..DI! OF CHAPIN at1589 or 2793 anytime. THROUGH WITH THIS DEAL!! PLEASE CLUQHOUSE
Stnught male needed for resort ~ment on paperbacks. Fri: 3-6: 50/ off used: 20/ntl 1100K IF YOU, ntl! LOW UFI! HELP OUT A POOR FELLOW SENIOR, $3 jLL YOU CAN DRINK, 21 ID
n-NOTREDAME.Cioeetoeverything. off new. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 So CAN IliAD. I HAVI! A TUT ON 1HI HELP!! I NEED 1 GRAD TICKET--WILL AND CALL JEFF AT 3859. RE IRED
OPening Mey 111 or thereabouts for sum-Bend Ave. 233-2342 4/11. mer or longer . Prefer profiiSIIonal , grad PAY$$$!' CALL SUE 3843 PLEASEI! .................................................. ..................................................... otudent , or medical type . Priced out al DUDLEY-THANK YOU FOR FRIDAY'S SIICiND SUMMER PROGRAMS­LoeT: Genera~ a.o texi WMr.movea this world. Call233-5853 & ask for TIM. Attenbon: Faculty,Grad-students & $$NEED GRAD. TICKETS!$$ CALL FORMAL-WHERE IS GARY'S POS­IRE~ND, LONDON, PARIS, ROME 
Undergraduates Houae for sale 1 mile MARK OR GEORGE 277-6464 TER?ALWAYSLORETTA UllltED NUMBERS OF OPENINGS the 10th floor al the i~ Wad. everxng. SUMMER APT FOR RENT. TURTLE away from campus, totally remodeled A AVAILABLE UNTIL MAY 15. FOR INFO The return al thla book ,.extremely impor­CREEK TOWNHOUSE AVAIL FROM great tax deduction for you or the parenta. DO YOU HAVE ANY EXTRA GRAD If you love the Schwerha, let It go. If It CALl,. PROF. A.R. BLACK -284-44110 tant •'have • t-.1 next weeki Cell ,815 
lrom the lw right lide al main '*"•on 

MAY 21 TO AUG 31. CALL TERRI 2n-Terms land contract or conventional. Call TICKETS?? I ONLY NEED 2. CALL comes beck. it was yours. If it doesn't, OR :112-372&. ASAP Wfound! 7455. 267-4107 for appt. TERRI2n-7455. hunt it down and kill it. 
...,....................................... 

The Observer Monday, April 22, 1985-page 9 
Murcer ends pro career 
Langer edges Wadkins in Heritage 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Bobby Murcer, who ended his major league career with the New York Yankees nearly two years ago, decided yesterday that his fling as a designated hitter in the Florida State League had gone far enough. 
"I had fun," said the 38-year-old former outfielder after his three­game stint with the Fort Lauderdale Yankees in the Triple A league. He had one hit in 12 at-bats. 
Murcer's main purpose was to supervise the rehabilitation of Yankees base stealing whiz Rickey Henderson, who has been playing for Fort Lauderdale as he recovered from a badly sprained left ankle suffered in an spring training exhibition game. 
Both Henderson and Murcer will fly to New York today. 
"I'm ready to play," said Henderson, who was acquired from the Oakland A's in the offseason. He walked three times and stole two bases yesterd<J · 
lllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllll..tlllltiHIII IN IIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII,l 
'85GRADS 

Turn in your job offer/future plans information form in the concourse ofthe Library Tuesday and Wednesday and receive a coupon goodfor: 
30%0FF 
any purchase of: 
CHR,S' ICE CREAM 
j 
CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 
i 
;................................................................................................., 
DePaul University 
School of Accountancy 
Review Course for the November 1985 .. 
CPA Examination 
June 17-0ctober 28, 1985 
The 59th DePaul University CPA Review is now accepting enrollments for the Summer 1985 Review. The Review features live classroom instruction an all-CPA/all-professor faculty, convenient location and session options: and special repeat tuitions. The Review has an open admission policy. 
The last 58 reviews maintained: 
•70% or over pass/condition rate 'over 85 medals and awards (statewide and nationwide) 
NO review can match the coverage, the instruction, the faculty and the experience of the DePaul CPA Review Course. For information call (312) 341-8640. 
DePaul University Monday, Wednesday, 25 E. Jackson Blvd. Friday, 6-9 p.m. (Wabash &Jackson) Tuesday, Thursday, 6-9 p.m. Chicago Saturday, 9-12 Noon 
'*'DePaulUniversity 
r-------------------------------,
I School of Accountancy 
I DePaul University 
I 25 E. Jackson Boulevard 
I Chicago, Illinois 60604 
I 
I Please send me a brochureand admission from the DePaul University CPA 
I Review Course. 
I 
I Name-------------------------------------------­
1 
I Address----------------------------------------­
1 
I City State __Zip ---------­
1 I 
1---~----------------------------J 
Associated Press 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. Masters champion Bernhard Langer of West Germany beat hopeful Bobby Wadkins on the first playoff hole and scored his second con­secutive victory yesterday, this one in the prestigious Sea Pines Heritage Classic. 
Langer, who last week became the first German to win any of golfs major titles, needed only a two-putt par on the first extra hole to turn back Wadkirts, who was seeking his first American victory in an II-year career that has been played in the shadow ofhis brother, Lanny. 
Langer and Wadkins each finished the regulation 72 holes over the pic­

Langer played the final 18 holes in 70 and Wadkins got around without a bogey and posted a 68. 
That sent them back to the 16th, a dogleg par-4, with the title and a $72,000 first prize at stake. 
Both drove the fairway. Wadkins, however, put his second shot into the right bunker. Langer reached the front of the green. 
Wadkins blew his bunker shot some I2 feet short of the cup. Langer, using his cross-handed put­ting style, left a birdie putt on the lip of the cup, and tapped in for par. Wadkins missed on the right and Langer was a winner again, the first man since Gary Player in 1978 to fol­low the Masters with a victory the 
turesque Harbour Town Golf Links next week. in 273, 11 shots under par on one of · "I know he must have had a little the most demanding courses the letdown after winning last week. To pros encounter all year. come here, and play extremely well, 
overcame an 18-13 deficit with an 8-I scoring streak to end the game.
Bookstore 

Paul Schoener led the way with 8-of­continuedfrom page 12 23 shooting for the winners, while 
A controversial charging call may Bentley Edmunds hit 8-of-I5 for the have been the factor that creamed defeated. The Creamers. It was Revenge Fac­Arsenal Gunners were shot down tor that emerged with the 21-19 win yesterday on Bookstore 9 at 2: I5 by after a charging call late in the game Four People and a Short Fat Guy. turned much ofthe crowd in favor of Gerry Bradley hit 6-of-16 for the Revenge Factor. But it was the Fac­Gunners, but it was Steve tor's players on the court who Skolozinski's 7-of-I8 and John Ris­
1
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWIIENTING FOR FALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & malntenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 820 ND Ave 
or call 
open Mon-Frl3-6pm 234-6647Sat 11-3pm 

WHYCORNELL? 
A great location. Study at one of the most beautiful Ivy League campuses and spend the .~mmer in the magnificent countryside of the Finger lakes region. Lo<.:ated on forty,ffiile-long . C~yug;~lake, Ithaca is asmall cosmopolitan city With restaurants, nightlife and aU the urban 
advantages. 

A great university. Choose from a remarkable variety of courses and learning opportunities­more than 300 courses taught by distinguished Cornel~ faculty members. The curriculum in­dudes computer science, fine arts, pre-law and pre-med studies, and languages. Sign up for a few weeks or the entire summer. Courses are offered in three-, six-, and eight-week sessions. ; 
A great adventure. Explore beautiful lakes and parks, spectacular waterfall'i and ravines. Enjoy swimming, sailing. tennis, golf, climbing, camping, soaring, biking. birding. and hiking. A rich and lively schedule of frtt outdoor l"'n· certs and theater makes C.omell an ideal place to meet people and make friendo;_ 
Why CorneD? Because we love summer as much as you do. Make plans now. For acopy of the 1985 Summer Ses.'iion Announcement caJI or write: 
CorneD University Summer Session 
Box 84, 8 12 lves Hall Ithaca, New York 14853-3901 
607/2~7 
' 
like he did, my hat's off to him," Wadkins said. 
The victory in the S400,000 event also allowed Langer to join Mark O'Meara, Curtis Strange, Calvin Peete and Lanny Wadkins as this season's two-time champions. • 
Hal Sutton and Tim Norris tied for third at 274, one shot out of the playoff. Each shot 67 over the final I8 holes, played in warm, sunny weather with just a hint of breeze stirring the Spanish moss dripping from the oak and cypress lining the fairways. 
Sutton's share ofthe purse pushed him over the n million mark in career earnings. 
Mike Smith was next at 67-275 and Larry Nelson at 70-276. 
The group at 277 included Danny Edwards, Larry Mize, Jim Thorpe and Dan Pohl. Thorpe and Pohl had 70s, Mize a scrambling 72. 
chard's 7-of-25 that won the game, 21-19. 
Five Horsemen of the Apocalypse rode their way to victory over Toe Jamb, QueefJuice and Three Other Tasty Treats on Stepan 1 at 3:00. Mark Kennedy rode highest in the saddle for the Apocalypse, hitting 9­of-18 in the 21-I9 victory. Sam Dowell led the Treats with 7-of-23. 
With a scoring attack more balanced than the team's name sug­gests, The Fastest White Guy on Campus and Four Orange Pylons ran 

. over Ragin' Ray's CPA's, 21-I8, on Stepan 2 at 3:45. John Murphy was the most productive Pylon, with 6­of-9, while Carey Purcell led the ac­countants with 1 0-of-20. 
Demented Doormats were not walked on or driven over by Four Rink Rats and a Zamboni Driver on Stepan 3 at 5: I5. The Mats pulled out a 2I-I8 victory on the strength of Rick Wirth's 9-of-18 shooting. Hamil Cupero was the leader of the pack, with 6-of-14 for the Rats. 
Four Delinquents and Our Lawyer were sorry to find themselves sur­rounded by Mixed Company on Stepan 3 at 4:30. Randy Golob led Mixed Company to the 2I-I8 vic­tory with his 9-of-20 effort. Greg Wittrock was the "worst" of the Delinquents, with 6-of-14. 
Ghostbuster Bill Murray could sympathize with Sven and the Flac­cid Four, as they got slimed on Lyons II at 5: I5. Slime needed only 43 shots in the 21-18 victory, as Mike Allen went 7-of-9, Paul Brennan hit 5-of-11 and Tom Hartzell was 5-oC: 
13. Frank Loughlin hit 9-of-3I for the slimed ones. 
One can only hope that the players for Prepare to Meet Your Maker followed their own advice yesterday on Stepan 5 at 3:45, when they were buried by Flankin' Idiots, 2I-18. Pete White (5-of-9) and Francis Sverdrup ( 5-of-I 5) led Meet Your Maker, but Idiots Dave Palmer (8-of-20) and Larry Lemanski (7-of­I7) sent their opponents to Heavan (or wherever). 
Of course, not all of the third­round games were that close, and not all of the seeded teams had a lot of difficulty winning. Favored Rous­seau's Noble Savages finished off Badfinger... The Finale, 2I-5, at 2: I5 on Stepan 4. Brian Behmer led the savages with 7-of-I 0 shooting, while teammate Tom Arndorfer was a per­fect 5-of-5. Mike Dipaolo (3-0f-I4) had the baddest finger for the 5-of­32losers. The Savages hit 21-of-31 as a team. 
Tequila White Lightning lost the services of Tod Tamberg to illness, but the team was up against Five Guys Worse Than Tim Kempton at 
2: I5 on Lyons I2. Lightning struck more than once on the fans ofNotre Dame's redhead center, as TWL hit 2I-of-34 en route to a 2I-8 victory. 
Armed and Dangerous III had the arms to make bacon out of Pigsters on Stepan 5 at 4:30. Dave Taiclet's 6-of-14 led Aand D's balanced 21-of­4 2 attack, while the porkers also had a balanced "attack:" four players with one point and one with two points, as the team went 6-of-25. 

The Observer Monday, April 22, 1985-page 10 
Boxer owes much to family 
Ed Kelly works hard for his goals 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
Most everyone would probably agree that hard work pays off. Notre Dame junior Ed Kelly certainly would. 
Kelly, a 5-4, 139-pound Grace Hall resident recently captured d1e Na­tional Collegiate Boxing Associati•Jn tide in the 139-pound class by defeating Rodney Smith fwm Westpointe. The championship competition held at Westches:er University in Westchester, Pa. A{•ril 
12-13 proved to Kelly that without a doubt, nothing is out of reach if}OU want it badly enough. 
"I worked harder for this than anything in my life," said the spunky Worcester, Mass. native. "To win this championship made it clear in my eyes that there is no substitute for hard work. It proved what I h:1ve always thought: hard work is the Jcey to success, and I'll never forget that." 
After watchin~ his future cham­pionship bout opponent score a knockout victory in his opening fight, Kelly quickly learned that win­ning the title would not be an easy task. 
"I realized that he was stronger than I was, so I would have to try to outthink him," said the mechanical engineering major. "He was five inches taller, but I found out that his pattern was very predictable. "He relied a lot on flurries of hooks and seldom did anything different. I tried to use a lot of side-to-side move­ments and counter-punching to combat his strength. By staying low, I also made it hard for him to con­nect like he wanted to." 
Kelly survived two second-round knockdowns en route to the 3-2 decision that earned him his title. Kelly maintains that moving, staying loose and being quick were his three keys to winning. 

After winning three fights to take the championship in the 145-pound class at the Bengal Bouts, Kelly worked to secure funds in order to take part in the Midwest Regional competition in Charleston, S.C., March 15-I6. There, he defeated fighters from Xavier and the Air Force Academy to earn the right to represent the Midwest at the na­tional championship. 
After training since September, Kelly's hard work has enabled him to raise his collegiate boxing record to 11-0; but through all of his success he finds it very important to thank all the other people that helped to make everything possible. 
"I owe a lot to my coach Sean McCormick and his family, the guys at the Michiana Boxing School, my friends here at school," adds Kelly, "and most ofall my family. They sup­ported me in every way imaginable. There are also numerous others who I can't even begin to mention, but without their help and support, my effort would never have been pos­sible." 

Westhoev~~n defends six-mile title 

ByJOHN MENNELL 
Sports Writer 
It was a better day to watch someone run six miles than to do it yourself. 
That didn't stop Jeff Westhoven from defending his men's under­graduate title in Saturday's ll'ish Spring Runs. Westhoven finished second overall to Paul Matousal; in the six-mile race in 85-degree weat­her. Matousak, also winner of the men's graduate division, complc: ted 
Steak 
continuedfrom page 12 
for the back-up spot. And Von Wyl 
and Chura both showed trteir 
capabilities on Saturday -Von Wyl 
booting a 52-yarder, and Chura nar­
rowly missing from the same dis­
tance. 
Von Wyl also made a strong cJ aim 

for the starting punter position as he 
nailed a 60-yard kick. Both he and 
sophomore Dan Sorenson 
impressed observers with their 40­
yard~-per-kick averages. 
For Faust, these positive re:;ults 

from the special teams were an espe­
cially welcome sight considering 
that even the long-snapper and 
holder positions are being manned 
by new personnel. 
"We were very pleased with the 

kicking game," said Faust. "That was 
one big thing today. We wanted to 
see the punters, kickers, and snap­
pers under pressure. 
"We've got new snappers 

(sophomore Tom Freeman and 
walk-on John Grieb), new holders, 
and new kickers. Von Wyl, Sorenson, 
and Chura all did a very good job." 
Perhaps the most encour~.ging 

aspect ofthe scrimmage was the: fact 
that there was only one injury: a 
mild knee injury to split enc. Pat 
Cusack which will keep the junior 
out of action for the remaindo:r of 
the spring. Offensive guard Tim 
Scannell and linebacker Tony Fur­
janie also were pulled from the 
scrimmage early, although thi~ was 
merely a precautionary move by a 
concerned Faust, who did not want 
to risk another injury to either of 
those two recuperating players. 
Next Saturday's Blue-Gold/Steak 

and Beans scrimmage, meanwhile, 
will be the culmination of all the 
hard work of the spring seasor1. 'Al­
though many of the proj•:<:ted 
starters for the fall wlll not be in uni­
form, Faust promises another hard­
hitting scrimmage. 
"It will be a heck ofa scrimmage," 

says Faust. "The players have a lot of 
pride on the line." 
A well-played Blue-Gold game 

next Saturday would be a real feast 
for any Irish football fan. 
the course in 32:08. Westhoven finished in 32:25, seconds ahead of third place finisher John Raven. 
Colleen Donnelly won the under­graduate women's division with a time of 44:07. Mary Ambrose, who finished 50th out ofthe 139 racers in the six-mile, won the women's graduate division. 
Guy Locksmith found the key to victory over the 57 other runners in the three-mile race on Saturday. His time of 16:25 earned him a the un­dergraduate division tide. Two ot­her undergraduates filled out the top three positions overall. David Hipp finished second and Peter Simms third. 


~ ~ 
McDONALD'S Campus Airlift 
We are expanding ourdelivery test for the remainder ofthe school year. 
Sundaythru Thursday 
Big Mac 1.65 QuarterPounder wI Cheese 1.70 Quarter Pounder 1.60 McNuggets --9 piece 2.30 McNuggets --20 piece 4.40 Filet-0-Fish 1.25 Cheeseburger .90 Hamburger .80 Large French Fry 1.00 Any Pie .80 Any Cookies .60 Large Orange Juice 1.00 Any Shake 1.00 
~ 

We will take orders from all ND halls from Spm to lOpm 
277-1688 
Ourdriver will call within 20 minutes to confirm the order and give you the time for delivery. 
We should have the order to you within 
15-20 minutes ofthe confirmation call. 
New deliveries start Monday, April. 15th 
277-1688 



~4(Jt~C3l~-------------------------------------------M-o_n_d_ay_._A_p_rl_"l_2_2_,1_9_8_5_-_P_ag_e
___ll 

Bloom County 
I ... I HAV~ 
SOM'£ 1/NPl&IISIINT
News... 
I 
Zeto 

Ia111FKAIP 

IT'S 1/8(}(/T YOI/R 
11t'€'t~ &ON~ 

MIINI/FIIC77JK€R., 
OfF TrJ ~ &lf6~T NO.• NO,

"!MNilNA INC..:' 
HI&H-~CH YOI/ CliNT 

81{1/C£ 'trXJI?S€t-f... 
IN/lf/5mlllt. Pflf?K Me/IN... 
INn/€ SKY.
~....>........, I 
I . 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Frilly neckpiece 
6 Ringer 1 0 Proscribes 14 TVwaitress 15 Jai­16 Caspian feeder 17 Rest 18 Judge's seat 19 Ms Fochof 
films
• 
20 Choice: abbr. 
I I 
21 Big boom from 
the sky 24 Peer 26 Slangy 
negative 27 Real 29 Most rapid 33 Of a form 34 Beauty marks 35-Mahal 37 Chin. port 38 Peeled 39 Roast 40 Comic Erwin 41 Cues 42 Dove shelters 43 Cost 45 Author Marcel 46 Curve 47 Watered silk 48 Big light from 
the sky 53 Harbor: abbr. 56 Gad 57 "High-" 58 Velvet hat 60 Genesis name 61 Author Wiesel 62 Draw out 63 Extinct birds 64 Vim 65 Strong smells 
DOWN 1 Mason items 2 Nautical term 3 Love letter 4 Wood sorrel 5 Following the 
script 6 Acacia tree 7 Panache 8 Light 9 Authorized 

©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 4/22/85 All Rights Reserved 
Friday's Solution 
10 UN diplomat 
Ralph 11 Seed coat 12 Zola heroine 13 Duel prelude 22 Roach or 
Holbrook 23 "Peanuts" 
expletive 25 Wharf 27 Amo follower 28 Gallic 
nobleman 29 Strong point 30 Pub drinks 31 Of classic 
beauty 32 Filming 
4/22/85

sessions 34 Supplies with 42 Cowboy's beast 49 Man of the 
a crew 44 Discussion road 36 Gag groups 50 Eye part 38 Certain 45 Neighbor 51 Actor's plum 
eyeglasses of Ger. 52 -de Boulogne 39 Oaf 47 Impressionist 54 Hockey item 41 Cattle get­Claude 55 Golf items 
together 48 Minecar 59 Poem of praise 


DARBY'S 
for late night munchies ... 
j 11!::111~~'~jlt-J 

in the basement of LaFortune 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
~ 1qes Universal Press Synd•cate 
81/NKI?f/ff/ 
Kevin Walsh 



Danny shows off his sheep's brain. 


Campus 

•3:30 
P.M.-Lecture, "The Sullivan Principles: The Use of Corporate Power for Human Welfare in South Africa," Rev. Leon Sullivan, Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by College of Business Administration. 

•4:30 
P.M.· PoetryReading,)oan Mcintosh, Local Poet, South Lounge, 2nd Floor Mez­zanine, Cushwa-Leighton Ubrary, SMC. 

•7-9 
P.M.-Presentation, "Summer Job Op­portunities with Citizens for a Better Environment," , Citizens for a Better Environ­ment, Room 104 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services, For All Inter­ested Students. 

•7:30 
P.M. · Performance, "Churchill: The Early Years," Mark S. Grirnisch, Writer and Performer, Carroll Hall, Madeleva Classroom Building, SMC, Sponsored by SMC Depart­ment of History, Free, Open to Public. 



TV Tonight 
6:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
6:30p.m.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
28  ABC World News Tonight  
7:00p.m.  16  M*A*S*H  
22  Three's Company  
28  Jeopardy  
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
28  Wheel ofFortune  
8:00p.m.  16  TV Bloopers & Practical Jokes  
22  Scarecrow &. Mrs. King  
28  2Hardcastle & McCormick  
9:30p.m. 22 Newhart 10:00p.m. 22 Cagney & Lacey ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 


Dinner Menus 
Notte Dame Roasttop round au jus Vinyard vegetables with cheese Pork fried rice 
Saint Mary's Veal madeline Italian sausage sandwich Liver with onions Quiche Lorraine 
9:00p.m: 16 The Television Academy Hall ofFame 22 Kate &Allie 28 Movie 
22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Simon & Simon/McMillan 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Movie 
12:00a.m. 28 Love Connection 12:30a.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 2:00a.m. 22 Nightwatch 
IAMERICAN
How you live may save your life. T~~ 

WILLIAM RUCKELSHAUS 
former Administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency 
will speak on 
THE STATE OF THE ENVIRONMENT IN THE 1980's 
Tuesday, April23 in Washington Hall at 8:00p.m. 
Monday, April22, 1985-page 12 
Tofu Vegetables I stirs excitement in 21-19 win over favored Sl)ysters 
ByPHILWOLF the 22-20 Victory. Bob Comfort was AssistantSports Editor the King Wienie, hitting 11-of-26 in the losing ~ffort. It was a busy weekend for On Stepan 4 at 1 :30, the Bookstore Basketball XIV. Homeboys could not withstand the 
The second round was completed Big Black Jl,ilac Attack. Mike McGuire on Friday and Saturday, as 90 teams led the At~ack with 1 0-of-19 shoot­battled on the asphalt courts, and ing in the ~2-20 win. Tim Reilly tried yesterday, the entire third round to fend ol1 the Attack with 9-of-19, was played, trimming the field to 64 but the Boys had to head home with teams, who will compete every day the loss. this week until just one remains at It may not be a favorite in the the end of the largest of AnTostal's dining halll;, but Tofu Vegetables I is annual events. establishing a devoted following on 
It was awfully hot for basketball the courtS. Last week, the Veggies yesterday, but the competition was downed former varsity player Barry fierce, and the crowds lazying in the Spencer's :team, and yesterday the 
sun seemed to enjoy it. Alumni frtishmen downed a seeded 
"It was a beautiful day for team in th~s year's tournament. Bookstore Basketball," tournament Shysters, an Elite Eight team in commissionner Jeff Blumb said last Bookstore,Xlll, was the victim ofthe night. Unless, of course, your stir-fried fteshmen. An even scoring favorite team was one of the 109 attack for :Tofu was the key to the teams to bow out ofthe competition win. Bill ]1adell led the way with 7­in the past three days. of-24 and Matt Hanley was 5-of-24. 
If your favorite team is Hey, Shi­Carl Livirgston hit 6-of-16 for Happens, you better adopt the at­Shysters, and teammate Tom Lange titude suggested by the team's name was 6-of-2jt. because Dribbling Dyxz II caused a Another: favored team had dif­little shi-to happen yesterday on ficulty ydterday, but Red Barons Stepan 6 at 1:30. Kevin Barry hit 7-pulled outl a 2 1·19 victory over Los of-18 to lead the Dyxz over Shi-Hap­Malandros on Stepan 4 at 6:00. pens, 22-20, despite Mike Blocker's Despite dje trouble the team had 8-of-1 7 effort for the losers. with Los l!Jalandros' zone defense, 
In another overtime game, DSB's the Baroris hit 21-of-54, led by 
Half Again Their Original Size was Bubba cu;nningham's 8-of-17 and victorious over Green Wienies on former var~ity player Casey Newell's Lyons I 2 at 4:30: The Wienies 5-of-10. Ml!rk Trautmann pitched in probably wish DSB's Mark Roesler 9-of-1 7 for; the losers. really was only half his original size, 
see BOOKSTORE, page 9 as he hit 10-of-32 to lead his team to 

Irish take second place at intercollegiate meet 
By MIKE S:lYMANSKI placed in tlhe 100 and 200, and Shan­Sports Writer non place(! in the 200 and 400. James P~ltterson was a double win­
Tbts dunk was just one ofyesterday's highlights The Notre Dame men's track team ner in the triple jump ( 49-7) and in tn third round action of the fourteenth edition of emerged from a dogfight at the In­the long j.ilmp with a school record Bookstore Basketball. Shysters and The Creamers diana Intercollegiates last Saturday of 25-5 1/4. Joel Autry and Gary 
with second place ( 136 1/2), defeat­LeKander ' took third and fourth ing Indiana ( 136) but losing to place in t11e triple jump. Brian Dris­Purdue ( 149). coll threw: 190 in the javelin to place
No steal' for Saturday scrimmage; 
"We went there anticipating that second, and Tom Mick added a Indiana, the Big Ten indoor cham­fourth-place finish in the hammer pion, was the team to beat, but throw.
will be inc~entive in Blue-Gold game 
Purdue was a surprise, as they ran 
extremely well," said coach Joe "As a team, we did fairly well, but By MARlY BURNS the way they moved it pretty well. 27 attempts), they moved their of­Piane. if we had competed better in a few Sports Writer "The defense played very well. fensive units effectively when called Bill Courtney ( 9:11 ) and Rick events we would have won the 
They were intense, although at the upon to do so. Mulvey (9:20) placed first and meet," said Piane. "The scoring was 
There was neither steak nor beans end they let the offense move the The highlight of the practice, second in the steeplechase. Robert evenly distributed." at Saturday afternoon's football ball too easily." though, occurred in the place­Nobles finished a half-second be­The Irish will run at the pres­scrimmage-just a few leftovers. Of course, Faust was not expect­kicking department. While last hind the winner in the 800-meter tigious Dr~e Relays this weekend. 
With more than 20 players out be· ing to see too much from this year's place kicker John Carney is with a time of 1:51.67. They will ·enter a two-mile relay, a cause of injuries, head coach Gerry scrimmage, not with all the injuries sitting out the spring season with an The mile relay of Dan Shannon, four-mile relay, and either a mile Faust decided to take the leftover and with the incentive of steak and injury, sophomore Pat Chura and Van Pearcy, Nobles, and John relay or a !sprint medley depending 
players and hold a norm~li practice beans having been taken away. To junior Hal Von Wyl are competing McNelis won in 3:11, as McNelis on the availability ofinjured sprinter session instead of the previously further reduce Faust's optimism contributed a 48.6 split. Pearcy Mitch Van Eyken. 
see STEAK, page 10 

scheduled '\steak and! beans" were the 80-degree temperature scrimmage. and the fact that only one of the 
The "steak and beans" gtme -regular offensive linemen (strong where the winners feast on t•:nder­guard John Askin) played more than loins while the losers eat franc; and a few minutes. 
SMC.nabs fifth at NAIA Tourney
beans · instead will be helc. next "We've had one bad scrimmage Saturday a.~ part of the trad ttional out of the four every year," noted Blue-Gold game. Faust will ho::>e not Faust. "I felt today we wouldn't hit as 
ByANDREA LaFRENIERE Kennedy came in fourth in ~e 1500-meter race. Ken­only to see some new faces off the well. But they did hit pretty well, 
Sports Writer nedy finished fifth in the 800-meter race as well. injured list next week, but he will and we got to look at a few different 
Three of the Belles' relay teams placed in the tourna­lu>pe also for a more complete effort things. This year, we really haven't 
The Saint Mary's track team captured fifth place at the ment. than he got on Saturday from his had a bad scrimmage yet." 
National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics Freshmen Diane Cancro, )lllie Novak, Tina Reid, and squad. Although Faust was The scrimmage started out the 
(NAJA) District 21 Tournament Saturday. Eight schools Kennedy ran the 800-meter relay and came in fourth impressed overall with the way Faust thought it might with the 
competed in the tournament, which took place at place. scrimmage, he still noted that both offense unable to make a first down 
Manchester College in North Manchester, Ind. the offense and the defense played until the 13th play. At this point, 
"We were very pleased with our efforts," said Coach The Belles' 100-meter relay team, consisting of sop­well in streaks, but not throughout however, things began clicking be­
Jean Kerich. "I think we did extremely well." homore Cris Cox, McMoni~e, Cancro, and Novak all of the entire hour-and·a-h:lif ses­hind the running of tailback Alonzo 
Several Belles placed individually at the tournament, received fourth place for its efforts. sion. Jefferson ( 13 carries · 78 yards, 3 
including sophomore Megan McMonigle, who received Cox, Novak, McMonigle, apd Kt~nnedy ran the 400­"We were pretty pleased," said touchdowns) and behind the leader­
second place in the javelin event. meter relay and came in fifth place for the Belles. Faust. "I thought that they hit pretty ship of the three freshmen quarter­
Sophomore Trish McPartlin took fourth place in the The team will play host to St. Joseph, Renssalaer, and good, and it impressed me the way backs, Tom Byrne, Terry Andrysiak, 
high jump and finished fifth in the triple jump. Franklin Colleges today at 3:t0 p.m. lbe javelin event the offense moved the ball. TI1e first and Pat Pesavento. Although the 
Mariclaire Driscoll, a sophomore, captured fourth will take place at Saint Mary's, while the rest of the 1 2 plays, (the offense) didn't do three attempted few passes (they 
place in the 10,000-meter race, and freshman Cathy events will be held at Clay Hili:h School in South Bend. anything, but then over the rest of combined for seven completions in 







