Divestment -page 11 
I i /
I 

VOL XX, NO. 44 WEEKEND EDITION, NOVEMBER 1·2, 1985 
' 
an independ.ent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's · 

Healy-Lawrence recall petition circulation to continue to Monday 
ByM~HILL transfers are invalid because these CopyEditor students have not completed one 
full semester, as required by a con­The countdown continues. stitutional stipulation. A group of students circulating a According to Vore, his group has 
petition to recall Student Body been "lying low" for the past week, President Bill Healy and Vice Presi· in order to give Healy "a chance to 
·Jent Duane Lawrence decided come out and defend himself" Thursday night to expand efforts to Vore said the group had hoped to gather the 1100 signatures needed see Healy adopt a "more confronta­for a recall vote, according to Mike tional" approach to dealing with the Vore, co-spokesman for the group. administration during Wednesday's 
Yore criticized Healy for continu­forum. ing to show a "defeatist-type attitude But, Vore said, "We still didn't see t~ward the administration" during a a change (during the forum) ... Bill's student government question and philosophy is that there's only so answer forum Wednesday night. much we can do with the ad­
Vore said the group hopes to col­ministration, and we're not going to lect the required 1100 signatures by settle for that." Monday at 4 p.m. Responding to Yore's criticisms 
If the necessary number of and the group's decision, Healy said, signatures is obtained by that time, "I've said everything Ican say on the students will be able to vote on issue. Tuesday whether or not they want "We can be demanding (ofthe ad­to recall Healy and Lawrence, Vore ministration), and I think we have said. been demanding," Healy added. 
The group currently has ap­The petition, titled "A Real Begin­proximately 800 or 900 signatures, ning," has been circulated in dorms, according to Bill Krais, a co­dining halls and classrooms since spokesman for the group. 
Signatures of freshmen and new see RECALL, page 3 

Cheating to be studied by honesty committee 
By FRANKJ. MASTRO The committee expects to make a StaffReporter recommendation to the provost wit· 
Halloween characters roamed the campus show their spirit at the South Dining Hall Hal­
hin the academic year, according to 
Thursday night in search of trick-or-treats and loween party. 
Cheating and what can be done to Malloy. 
ghostly pursuits. Nels Pedersen and Greta Fisher 
eliminate it from Notre Dame is now In order to address the matter, the the responsibility of the newly­committee has divided into three formed Honesty Committee. sub-committees. The committee was approved by One sub-committee will study 

Congressional negotiations falter 
the Academic Council following a honesty codes at other schools. re~ommendation for its creation by Another will establish contacts with the University Curriculum Commit­faculty organizations, while the 

leaving federal budget in question
tee. third will obtain input from stu­"We're going to try to find out dents. 

Treasury Department's handling of problems continue, they may beginwhat the extent of cheating is, what "At the University ofVirginia they Social Security funds. temporarily halting spending for circumstances promote cheating have an honor code where students WASHINGTON -Congressional Jones said in a written statement some programs.
and try to cultivate respect for are required to turn in other stu­

negotiatons on a Senate-passed that he wanted auditors to see "Our view is the House ought to honesty," said Father Edward Mal­dents," said Lowell. 
balanced-budget plan collapsed "whether Social Security trust as­act ... (and) stop playing games over loy, associate provost and chairman "The sub-committees will meet as Thursday night, leaving in doubt sets, held in long-term invested there," said Senate Majority Leader of the Honesty Committee. frequently as possible in order to get 
when the House and Senate could securities, have been cashed in by Robert Dole, R-Kan. "They've been Provost Timothy O'Meara an­the job done. They will then report take final action on necessary legisla­Treasury on more than one occasion holding the bill hostage." 
nounced appointments to the nine to the committee," said Malloy. 

tion to restore the government's to pay benefits, so that the funds nor­Dole may think he is being person committee, composed offive The committee now is in the borrowing authority. mally used to pay benefits could be "politically cute and smart," but "24 faculty and four student members. process ofsetting up mechanisms to "I think we have come to the con­used to keep the government going hours of(partisan) happiness on his talk to as many people as possible
The faculty members are Stephen clusion to amicably agree to dis­despite the debt limit." side isn't what he's supposed to be Batill, associate professor of about cheating. 
agree," said Sen. Bob Packwood, looking for as a leader of this
With the failure of the talks, the

aerospace and mechanical engineer­"There's no big cheating ring Congress," said House Speaker
R-Ore., chairman of the Senate 
issue moves to the House floor oning; Francis Castellino, dean of the around the school. People are more Finance Committee and chairman of Thomas O'Neill Jr., D-Mass. 

College of Science; Carol Mooney, or less casually cheating," Lowell Friday where Democrats and "The Senate stonewalled it, they
the negotiations on the Senate plan 
Republicans will offer separate
associate professor of law; David said. 

to force a balanced budget by 1991. don't want to go into it issue by
balanced-budget packa~s.

Ricchiute, associate professor ofac­"One thing that we're concerned issue," O'Neill added, calling the countancy, and Robert Wegs, as­about is students who don't cheat." ''I'm sorry that the conference Congress is facing a Friday Senate-passed plan to force a sociate professor of history. said Wegs. "They don't want to turn failed to agree," said Rep. Dan Ros­
deadline for passing legislation balanced budget by 1991 "a political 
an tenkowski, R-Ill., chairman of the
Students on the committee are in other students. They're in raising the national debt limit from document." 
Earl Baker, a senior engineering awkward position. They don't think House Ways and Means Committee, the current S1.824 trillion to more The House, O'Neill said, was major and academic commissioner it's fair for others to get away with it. who led the House bargainers. 
than S2 trillion. trying to "bail the most popular of student government; Vince Ultimately, they get a lower grade." 
The talks fell apart at the end of a Treasury Department officials president since John Quincy Adams Lowell, a sophomore engineering "We want to both change at­day during which congressional have warned that if the debt limit, out ofthe bucket he's put the nation junior titudes about c~eating and make
major, Margaret McCabe, a leaders traded partisan insults over which allows the government to in." 
business major, and Robert Molnar, recommendations about the way who was stalling the talks. borrow to' pay its bills, is not in­At the White House, spokesman a junior in the College ofScience. tests are given and so on, ifthat will 

While the wrangling continued, creased by then, they will have to Larry Speakes said President .Reagan"I think we should take the help," said Malloy. Rep. JamesJones, D-Okla., chairman redeem billions of dollars held by directed administration lobbyists to honesty question very seriously at a The question of integrity had 
of the Ways and Means subcommit­the Social Security trust fund and ot­tell legislators he is "deeply dis· been raised in the Pace Report, a
university such as ours," said tee on So<;ial Security, announced her trust funds to keep the govern­turbed" by the deadlock. Speakes O'Meara."I don't think it is a very report issued every 10 years by the 
that he was asking the General Ac­ment solvent. said Congress must act within 48 
serious problem, but it is something provost concerning the state of af. counting Office, Congress' inves­Administration officials also have hours or "force us into disarray in we should consider." fairs at the University. 
tigative arm, to look into the indicated that if the current money our financial dealin~." 




The Observer Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 2 
Of Interest 


Students need to respond 
The publisher ofUSA Today, Cathleen Black, 

to parietals violation punishments 
will be executive-in-residence today at Saint Mary's. Black will 
address Saint Mary's Business Associates at 12:30 p.m. and speak to an advertising class at I:15. An open forum will be held from 3 to 
3:45 in Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. The public is invited to attend at no charge. Black will end her visit with a press conference and a reception in Haggar College Center. · Tbe Observer 
3,000 kazoos will be passed out before Saturday's Notre Dame vs. Navy football game by the Student Activities Board.. Tbe Observer 
Fall Day on Campus will be this Sunday at Saint Mary's. The College Admissions Office sponsors a day once each semester for high school seniors to visit the campus. Students and parents will tour buildings and learn more about Saint Mary's facilities and departments..Tbe Observer 
The Nazz may be a thing of the past, but its spirit continues Friday night in Chautauqua Ballroom in LaFortune from 9 to 11 when the Student Activities Board presents John Kennedy along with New Age Mothers and the American Dream, a four-piece bluegrass band. Admission is free. · Tbe Observer 
Junior Parents Weekend is not too far away. An informational meeting for all those interested in chairman and com­mittee positions will be Monday at 7 p.m. in Lafortune's Uttle Theater.. Tbe Observer 
The Saint Mary's Peacemakers will be 
meeting Friday at 4 p.m. in Holy Cross Hall. Included on the agenda will be the finalization ofplans for South African Awareness Week at the College, and discussions of issues about South Africa. • The Ob· server 
The Notre Dame Department ofMusic 
announces Karen Buranskas in a faculty cello recital. The concert will take place Sunday afternoon at 4 in Annenberg Auditorium. Buranskas will perform sonatas by Prokofiev and Debussy and the Sixth Cello Suite by Bach. Accompanying Buranskas will be Prof. William Cerny. The concert is free and open to the public.. Tbe Observer 
The ND Chicago Club will be having their first get-together at 1:30 Saturday afternoon. All Chicagoans from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are welcome. Call Kathy at 283·2894 for details · Tbe Observer 
Weather , 
. 
It's raining again. A 90 percent 
chance of rain Friday and Friday night. High in the upper 50s to 60. Low Friday night in the upper 40s. Ught rain likelySaturday. High in the mid to upper 50s. ·AP 


=Ihe=Obset:Ver-=-­
O.Stgn Editor.......................••.-....Andy Saal Design Asststant............... Melissa Warnke Typese~ ................................. Larry Burke Tom Small Becky Gunderman Typtst ........................... Mary Kale D'Amore News Editor.............................Jane Kravcik Copy Editor ...................Cindy Rauckhocst Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil WoH 
Sports Special ~ut............Alex Pelacr Jeft"Blumb Viewpoint CopyEditor ..........Miriam Hill 

lbe O~rvcr ( l'SPS W9 l·"'tUOO) is published Monday through Friday ewcept durmg exam and vacauon period!. The Observer is published by the: students ofthe l'niversiry of Notre Dame and Saini Mary's College Sub&:riprions may ~ purch;utd for S.\0 per year ( S.lU per ~mcster) b)· writing The Obscnrer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
-46t;t;6 The O~rver 1s a mcmhcr of The AMoclakd Press. All reproduction riKbts arc resr...,·ed 
VWI.vpoint Layout............ Elizabeth Vogel Featrm!s Copy Editor...............Sam Moore Maryjacoby FMtures Layout.......................... Sue Ritgtt Maria Groner ND Day Editor .......................Lynne Strand SMC Day Editor................. Maryjean Sully Ad Design .......................jeanie Grammens MicheUe Martin 
jesse Pesta 
Tom Biafore Photographer ...............Chaitanya Panehal 

The parietals policy ofNotre Dame is a new concept 
for many students who choose to attend the University. 
Those who have not been associated with Notre Dame 
and are more familiar with the residence hall policies of 
state schools and other private universities face adjust· 
ments which usually are made quickly. 
Students soon realize Notre Dame is not just another 
university. The administration points to the private, 
Catholic nature of Notre Dame with pride. Parietals is 
one distinctive rule the University says it believes is a 
positive factor in the growth of the individual into a 
complete, caring person. 
The University does not hide its parietals policy. Rec­
tors describe the parietals to freshmen at dorm 
meetings. Visitation hours are stated clearly and soon 
become a regular part of the fiow ofstudent life. 
Recently a different side of Notre Dame's parietals 
policy has become public through two advertisements 
paid for by the Hall Presidents' Council, a discussion at 
the HPC and columns and 
letters appearing on the 
Viewpoint page of The Ob­
server. 
The HPC discussion, the 
columns, the letters and the 
ads all point to the nature of 
the University's punishment 
for a violation of parietals. 
They do not question the 
University's right to imple­
ment a policy ofparietals. 
Notre Dame, as a private 
Catholic institution, can 
develop and implement 
policy as it sees fit. It is clear 
from the careful wording 
and obvious philosophical 
thought found in du Lac that 
the University has not taken 
the parietals position ar­
bitrarily. Notre Dame says in duLac that its ambition is "to help men and women become humane and to help 
nurture Christian ideals in its students. 
Discussion of the penalties for parietals violations 
usually is not brought into public consideration. Dis· 
ciplinary procedures are private at Notre Dame, for the 
good ofthe student involved. This exception allows the 
members of the community to discuss the letter ofthe 
law stated in du Lac and the spirit ofthe law embodied 
in that guide to student life. 
An examination of the punishments for parietals 
violations need not and should not become bogged 
down in the examination of the parietals policy itself. 
The University has stated its position clearly, forcefully 
and convincingly in du Lac. Those students who dis· 
agree with the residence hall regulations have the op· 
tion to live offcampus or leave the University. 
But for those who live by the regulations in du Lac 
and enjoy the benefits of residential life, must the 
HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF 

$199.95 
History will repeat Itself again 
at THE OUTPOST. Right now 
you can purchase a COMplete 
ski package Including: Elan 
Skla, Solomon Bindings, 
Nordica Boots, and Look 
Pol•. Alllhls for the 
UNBELIEVABLE price of 
$198.85. That's Rlghtl 1""­
prlces date back to 1an, and 
this represents a savings of 
over sn.. Alto choose from 
over 12 packages designed 
for Intel ntedlate through 
expert abiiiUea, your beat 
chance to purch-ski 
equipment 

•••••••428 Baldwin Street 16533 Cleveland Road .Elkhart, Indiana 46514 Granger, Indiana 46530 

Frank Lipo 
News Editor 
punishments for a violation be so severe? Must a stu· dent's future at Notre Dame be weighed against a prin· ciple, even when a violation is a question of judgment, not a question ofmorality? 
Such questions must be put to the administration. Students have the opportunity to examine the discipli­nary process at Notre Dame. They can question wor­ding which places suspension and dismissal as the only possible penalties for "overnight parietals violations." They can ask for a definition ofovernight parietals viola­
tions. 
lbrough the letter· writing plan put forth in the ads paid for by the HPC, stu· dents have the opportunity to let the administration learn their views. But stu­dents should not stop there. They should discuss the issue with their fellow stu­dents, their rectors, and their professors. Punish­ment which is so severe that it damages the community violates the original intent of the parietals regulations. Therefore it is a community issue.

CJD 
ll·l-lf Perhaps such actions will bring changes in the type of punishment for parietals 

violations in the future. Ifstudents do not question the administration on an issue which is such an integral part of life at Notre Dame, an opportunity will be missed. And we will all suffer. 
Happy 20th Birthday 
John Burelbach 
Dillon's Finest 
Another inexpensive Observer birthday ad 
The Observer Weekend _Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 3 

Award established for volunteer service 
By CHRISTINE CAPONIGRI 
News Staff 
The John W. Gardner Student Leadership Award, granted for ex­emplary volunteer service outside of the Notre Dame community, has been established by the Office of Student Affairs. 
Any graduating senior, graduate, or professional student who has volunteered at the local, state, or na­tional level is eligible for this annual accolade. 
Campus organizations which have done service outside of the Univer­sity also may be nominated for the award. 
The idea for the award was taken from a national award of the same name, also given for volunteer service. 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh was given the award by the Independent Sector, a group of non-profit organizations, on Oct. 8. 
"Hesburgh was chosen for his lifelong involvement in and support of volunteerism," said Father David Tyson, vice president for student af­fairs. 
Tyson said he is "very excited about this award. There are a num­ber of volunteering awards presented at commencement, but this is the first given for service outside the Notre Dame com­munity." 
Hesburgh's 13,500 award will provide the cash gift for the Notre Dame winner each year. The recipient can use the 1200 honorarium as he wishes. 
Anyone may nominate a student who fills the qualifications ofoutside service and high academic standing. The nominations must be received in Spring, at a date to be announced later. 
Nominations received by the vice president for student affairs will be screened by the student affairs senior staff. Hesburgh will approve the final selection. 
The John W. Gardner Student Leadership Award is named for the founder of the Common Cause, which "brings together people from the public, private, and independent sectors for the purpose of service," said Tyson. 
At Hesburgh's suggestion, the Office for Student Affairs decided to establish the award. 
Southside Johnny_ & The Jukes 
Tonight!.Bpm 
Budweiser presents An Evening with... 

GALLAGHER 
NOV. 14-11 

The Fabulous ... 
TEMPTATIONS/
FOUR 
TOPS NOV. 28-29 

Two disguised Notre Dame students and friend bon beld Thursday in front ofSoutb Dining Hall. read a ghoststory to whoever is bold enough to Its­All benefits were donated to the United Way. ten. Tbe tbree were part oftbe Horror Story Marat-

SMC alcohol awareness week set 
By MARY FRAN GISCH 
StaffReporter 
Alcohol Awareness Week at Saint Mary's, scheduled for Nov.4-8, will focus on the results oflast year's al­cohol survey, said Dean of Student Affairs Sister Karol Jackowski. 
"The surveys were given last year to 400 students at random with an equal amount in each class. We were really pleased with the high return rate of 62.7 percent," said Nan Loy, advisor to the College's Alcohol Education Council. 
"It should be very interesting to see how the situation has changed over the past six years," said Loy, ex­plaining that last year's surveys will be compared with a similar survey taken in 1979. 
Saint Mary's Alcohol Education 

consultant Molly Sullivan said she 
thinks there is an alcohol problem at 
Saint Mary's "in the same sense that 
there is an alcohol problem · in 
America." 

"I'm not sure if there is an over­
whelming problem in this com­
munity, but I'm sure there are 
people out there who are hurting. 
We are here to help," Loy added. 

Sullivan said she thinks the dif­ference in the two surveys might be surprising. 
"I would guess .that the propor­tion of heavier drinkers (at Saint Mary's) is even higher now than during the 1979 survey," she said. 
"I have not yet seen the actual results, but I would think this could either be due to either a better recognition ofthe problem•. oran ac­
he Bruce Springsteen of comedy!" Boston Globe 
"I styled myself after Jay Leno when it comes to stand-up comedy." David Letterman. Playboy Interview 
Late Night with Leno "To see the long lines for Leno outside the Great American Music Hall, where I caught him this weekend, you'd think Joan Rivers was in town. Leno's following is also smart, upscale and can't sleep." 
Variety 
"Mr. leno's humor was at its sharpest in its skewering of sexist im­agery in popular culture." 
New York Times
.: .. .. . : 
Tickets available at: Notre Dame S.AB. Record Store, ACC Box Office, Century Center Box Office or Charge by p (219) 2N-9111. 
Advance Tickets $10.50 • $12.50 at the door 


tual increase of the problem," Sul­livan added. 
Sullivan and Loy said the final results of the survey will not be dis­closed until Monday's presentation in Haggar Student Center at 7:30. 
Two recovering alcoholics, a Notre Dame graduate and a nun, will make presentations on Wednesday night in Stapleton Lounge at 7:30. 
Thursday's presentation features Dr. Terry Alley, medical director for the Renaissance Center in Elkhart, who will speak on the natural highs created by endorphines. The talk will be held in Regina North Lounge at 7:30p.m. 
Hot air balloon rides will finish the weekonSundayafternoon at 4 in the field in front of the dining hall. Rides are open to the public at the cost of $1. 


Recall 
continuedfrom page 1 
Thursday Oct. 18. The petition 
criticizes Healy and Lawrence for 

"failing to stand up for student 
rights, most recently regarding the 
Dillon tailgater at Ann Arbor" and 

for "attempting to disband the Stu­
dent Senate." 
The petition also cites Healy's 

decision to dismiss John Dettling 
and Pat Baccanari from the Commit­
tee for Responsible University 
Practices as a reason for dismissing 
Healy and Lawrence. 

Vore also said student govern­ment failed to stand up for students' rights when two students were suspended from the University for a parietals violation this semester. 
Vore said the petitioners will meet at 4:30p.m. Friday in the New Orleans room of Lafortune to dis­cuss ways to collect the 200 to 300 signatures they still need. The group plans to designate a representative in each dorm to gathersignatures for the petition. 
In order to recall Healy and Lawrence, Vore said, two-thirds of the students voting on the referen­dum must vote to recall them. 
Ifstudents vote in favor ofa recall, a general election for student body president and vice president will be held within two weeks after the recall vote, Vore said 
All undergraduates are eligible to vote on the referendum. 
Healy and Lawrence would be eligible to run in the general elec­tion, but Healy said he has not decided whether he and Lawrence would run if such an election were held. 

The Observer 

ment, where sbe was charged wltb two counts ofmurder. Sbe is accused ofkilling two and wounding eight others in a shooting spree in a shopping mall. Story onpage 7. 
Trade deficit rises in Sept. to new high 

WASHINGTON -The country's foreign trade deficit soared to an all­time high of S15.5 billion in Septem­ber while the government's main gauge of future economic activity posted a scant 0.1 percent increase, the Commerce Department said Thursday. 
In further news, the department said orders to U.S. factories fell 0.6 percent last month, further em­phasizing the battering the U.S. in­dustrial sector is taking at the hands offoreign competition. 
The September trade deficit was 57 percent higher than the August total as imports surged to a record high of S33.3 billion. The increase was led by a 54.8 percent jump in shipments of japanese cars and a 
17.6 percent increase in oil ship­ments. 
The bately perceptible 0.1 per­cent advance in the Index ofLeading Indicators in September, coupled with the drop in factory orders, left many private economists concerned about the durability of the current 
recovery. 
"The economy is struggling," said Allen Sinai, chief economist for Shearson Lehman Brothers. "We have a trade sector that is in deep trouble. U.S. industry is being pushed against the wall." 
Many analysts said the high trade figure underscored the impossibility of reaching the administration's tar­gets of a five percent growth rate during the second half of this year. They said growth of less than three percent was much more likely. 
Trade has sapped the economy's strength all year long as U.S. manufacturers have -eliminated 340,000 jobs since january in the face. 
Please 



support 

AMERICAN CANCER 
SOCIETY~ 

Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 4 
Far right makes substantial gains 
in South African midterm elections 
As8odated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa ­White-supremacist parties on South Africa's far right said Thursday their broad gains in five midterm elec­tions proved there is a surge in white opposition to sharing power with blacks. 
The governing National Party of President P.W. Botha, campaigning ona platform ofgradual race reform, won four of the five Parliament seats at stake in Wednesday's voting but lost ground everywhere to the far right. 
Two ultra-conservative parties slashed the Nationalists' past majority in four districts and took a seat away from Botha's party in the Orange Free State for the first time since 1953. 
The National Party, in power 
since 1948, has a huge margin in Par­
liament, and parliamentary control 
was not an issue. 
Leaders of the far-right Con­
servative Party and the Reformed 
National Party said voters showed anger over government failure to quell 14 months of bloody rioting over apartheid as well as dissatisfac­

tion  with  the  economy  and  the  
government's  approach  to  race  
reforms.  
Pro-government  and  liberal  

newspapers noted the five districts were largely blue-collar and rural and said the far-right never had been in a more favorable position than in Wednesday's vote. 
The far-right's victorious can­didate, Louis Stotberg of the Reformed National Party, had made an issue of a couple in his town of Sosolburg who married this year after the National Party repealed laws barring interracial sex and mar­riage. 
Stolberg's pamphlets said the white man and his mixed-race wife "could live in your street . . . and their children could go to your schools." 
Botha said he was satisfied with the outcome of the elections, "considering the difficult economic consequences of the recession, the 
drought (and) the present unrest situation ill; certain parts of the country." 
"We will have to continue to work and build toward a peaceful South Africa for all population groups in a responsible manner," he said, sug­gesting he would not be deterred by the far right's gains. 
Andries Treurnicht was jubilant over the gains of his conservatives and the allied Reformed National Party, which won a seat in Parlia­ment for the first time since its formation in 1969. 
While the National Party actually 
increased its votes slightly from 
26,274 four years ago to 27,062, the 
two far-right parties jumped from 
6,899 in 1981 general elections to 
22,547 on Wednesday. 

"I think the main reason is ( Botha's) swing away from white self-determination to power-sharing and mixed government," Treurnicht said in a telephone interview from his home in Pretoria. 
• 



The Observer Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 5 

Juan heads for Florida 
Associated Press strengthening, and winds neared 
hurricane force in squalls around its 
NEW ORLEANS-Tropical storm center, the weather service said. Juan, apparently picking up It was not expected to grow all strength, moved toward Alabama the way to hurricane strength be­and Florida Thursday after haunting cause its speed should have it the Gulf Coast for five straight days quickly over land, said Jim Lynch, a with high tides and heavy rain that hurricane specialist at the National caused more than S 1 billion in Hurricane Center in Coral Gables, damages and flooded thousands of Fla. people out oftheir homes. 
The erratic storm's toll included He said the storm had not seven people dead and four missing weakened substantially because "It since Saturday, when Juan never really got inland. It was developed as a tropical depression around the (Louisiana) coast, and a in the Western Gulf of Mexico. A lot of that was swamp. The farthest sailboat missing since Monday with inland it got was 30 miles. Without four people aboard was reported any real high terrain over Louisiana, safe Thursday. it still had its energy source over the 
The National Weather Service GulfofMexico." said Juan passed over the mouth of As it moved out, water receded in the Mississippi River at daybreak and some parts ofLouisiana. accelerated toward the northeast at "That water's going down real 1S-20 mph, a path that could take it good with that northwest wind," across the Alabama and northwes­said Terrebonne Parish Deputy Ray Waters were chest-deep tn sections ofa New Or­protection levees after five days of rain from tern Florida coasts by afternoon. Hebert. "It went down at least four leans suburb, as marsbwater overflowed hurricane Hurricane-Tropical Storm juan. Story at left. 
There were signs the storm was to five feet ... just overnight. 

NOV.l AND 2 FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 7:00p.m., 9:15, 11:30 HALL OF ENGINEERING 
$1.50 




P----------------•I · 

I 
II II 
A DEUIPIZ 
I 233-3964 I II GO IRISH! 
I 
$5 buys youI a large pizza with I I 2 items with this ad. I
I "We're Talkin' Quality" I 
I 
1511 Portage Ave 
One block north of Martin"•
·-----------------1I 
c· 6 • • • • •
• 
The Hammes 
r-~--------------------------,
1 Tanning Center ~flO~ I

The Student Hctiuities Boor-d Arms control pr-esents: 
I ""'-\\dI '\¥.\~'f..()"\.~~'\ I ideas given 
I ___::~ ~9-\~G ~~ '1\epO I
THE by Reagan
1-t't The Sun Shine In I

I "-----/ I 
I I

EXORCIST ! FIRST VISIT FREE! 

·. 


Notre Dame Bookstore 
I 1 6
r .. • ;, 

Featuring 24 bulb beds with facial Unit. Our large, contoured beds are over 7feet long and provide a 360° tan. 2314 So. Bend Ave.(next to Martins) Call for appointment 277-6444 
Open 7-9 Mon-Frl 8-8 Saturday 

/ . 

WASHINGTON President Reagan announced Thursday the United States will unveil a new arms control proposal in Geneva Friday that he said will build on the recent Soviet proposal and emphasize reductions in "destabilizing" nuclear arms systems. 
"I would characterize our arms control position as deep cuts, no first-strike advantage, defensive research . . . and no cheating," Reagan said in a televised statement at the White House. 
He also announced he has asked the Soviet Union to extend the cur­rent session ofthe Genevaarms con· trol talks, scheduled to adjourn Friday, for an extra week to hear details ofthe American proposal. 
Reagan said he has sent a letter on the subject to Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and also has commun­icated with American allies, who had been urging an American counter· proposal to the Soviet plan unveiled in early October which called for a 50 percent cut in nuclear arsenals of both superpowers. 
Just before making his announce­ment in the White House press room, the president met with four Soviet interviewers and told them he would accept some ofthe figures the Soviets had proposed in their plan for a 50 percent reduction in nuclear missiles and warheads. 
He told the journalists from Mos-· cow that his reply to the Soviet proposal will be laid out at the arms negotiating table in Geneva on Friday. 
Reagan said he wouldn't disclose details ofthe proposal now because "history shows progress is most surely made through confidential negotiations." 

1717 (. Soutfl lend A... loutfl Benet......... -.31 C211t 272-4135 


. ' . . I 
. • / -. . . . .I ­
The Observer Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 6 
Soviet Union 
and East bloc 
may initiate ties to Israel 
TEL AVIV, Israel · The Soviet Union and its East bloc satellites are moving toward diplomatic ties with Israel in an apparent effort to expand their role in the Middle East, Israeli officials said Thursday. 
The Soviet moves come at a time when there is intense diplomatic ac­tivity in advance of the Soviet­American summit and the stirrings 
of  a  Jordanian-Israeli  peace  in­ 
itiative.  
Israel  radio  said  reports  had  

reached Jerusalem that Jordan and Egypt had been urging the Soviet Union to re-establish ties with Israel. The New York Times said Was­hington would convey an Israeli message to the Kremlin that the only way the Soviets could join the peace talks would be to restore diplomatic ties severed in 1967. 
A foreign ministry official who spoke on condition of anonymity said he could not confirm the report. 
Foreign Minister Yitzhak Shamir touched off a flurry of speculation when he said on Israel television Wednesday night that in recent days "we received information that anot­her Warsaw Pact country wants to strengthen ties with us." 
Poland announced its agreement Oct. 23 to exchange low-level diplomats with Israel and to set up visa offices that would allow travel and ·promote cultural exchanges. Shamir declined to say what country wanted to improve ties but the most likely was Hungary, which has growing economic relations with Is­rael. 
"I sense a change in the tone that I haven't heard before and (I heard) new thoughts about relations," said Victor Shemtov, one of three Israeli Parliament members who visited Moscow last week. 
"I think that these new thoughts may explain the reports of ties with Hungary and the others, which may be leading to ties between Moscow and Israel," said Shemtov, former head of the opposition socialist Mapam Party. 
Shemtov and two other leftist members of Parliament were invited to visit the Soviet Union by the Soviet Peace Council. 
"They told us that the Mideast conflict was part of the global con­flict between the powers and that while temporary agreements can be reached, a just and lasting peace can only be achieved with superpower participation." 
A government official with knowledge of recent contacts with the East bloc said the restoration of diplomatic ties with the Warsaw government was t}le first of a process. 
"The Polish move would have been impossible without Soviet ap­proval and it is also clear that Russia is contemplating a similar meaiU..e," said the official who spoke on condi­tion ofanonymity. 
The Soviets apparently seek to play a role at an international con­ference on the Middle East. Prime Minister Shimon Peres has said Israel will agree only if Moscow restores diplomatic relations. 
Israeli officials have said a loosen­ing ofrestrictions on the emigration of Soviet Jews would also make Is­rael more amenable to an enhanced Soviet involvement in the peacemaking process. 


with 
CLqRKTELE
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
74% LESS  7-i% LESS  - 74% LESS  
THAN AT&T's  THAN AT&T's  THAN AT&T's  
DAYTIME RATES  EVENING RATES  NIGHTTIME RATES  

LESS COST -Clark Telecommunication rates are 71/2 °/o below A f& T rates all the time. 71/2 o;o below daytime, evening and nighttime rates. 
LESS HASSLE -Because Clark itemizes your billing for each individual, there is no more figuring out your roommate's calls. 
LESS NOISE -Clark long distance is clear, quality communications. No .more strange interference, funny noises, dead air, or low volume with Clark. 
LESS RUNAROUND-Because Clark was chosen by the Administration of the University of Notre Dame to handle long distance service for students, we have an on-campus serVice representative to answer questions and respond to problems right away. 
your voice counts . , . 
Call today to start saving on all your long distance services, or see our ON-CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE in room G91 in the Memorial Library. 283-4150 
CLqRKTELE
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
211 West Washington Suite 1700 South Bend, IN 46601 
The Observer Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 7 

&D Minut• Calar Print• 
1Jm X(D~~~tLrnruv UtL rnffi £B ~~~ ~Vl!l(Dl$UJUe ~~~ Unlv•r.tl:y Park Mall ~~~~ 
272-824. v 
Got the Back-to-School Blues? FEELING HOMESICK? COUNSELINE ask for tape 432 'How to Deal with Depression" 239-7793 • e Monday-Thursday ee\\tf­4-lOpm co•­ 
Are You Feeling Alone? Call : Counseline Ask for Tape 32 _ "How to Deal With Lonliness" 239-7793 Monday ­Thursday 4-10pm  

Woman kills two and wounds 7 in shopping mall shooting spree 
ANOclated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Pa. -Three days 
after Recife Cosmen celebrated his 
second birthday, an aunt took him to 
Springfield Mall to be outfitted for a 
church's weekend benefit fashion 
show. 

Cosmen originally was not in­cluded to be in Saturday's show at the United Methodist Church in Trainer, according to the Rev. Jesse Walker ofChester United Methodist Church. But room had been made for him at the last moment, and Wed­nesday's fitting session was ar­ranged. 
Approximately 3:30 that afternoon, a 25-year-old woman wearing combat fatigues went to the mall and repeatedly fired a semi­automatic rifle. She killed two people, including Cosmen, aut­horities said. Seven others were wounded. 
Sylvia Seegrist, who said she lived in nearby Crum Lynne, was charged with two counts of murder, eight of attempted murder, aggravated as­sault and weapons violations. She is 
being held at the Delaware County 
prison. 
A preliminary hearing is 
scheduled for Nov. 7. 
Seegrist's mother, Ruth, said her daughter had been in and out of psychiatric hospitals 12 times in the last 10 years and once had tried to strangle her. Her pastor said she had stabbed someone at a halfway house four years ago. 
At her arraignment Wednesday, Seegrist toldJusticeJoseph DiPietro: "Like, hurry up, man; you know I'm guilty, shoot and kill me on the spot." 
Relatives and friends said she was very interested inweapons and war. 
Shortly before the shooting, Gina Wootson, 29, her daughter, Tiffany, and four of the girl's cousins, includ­ing Cosmen, who lived in Min: quadale, Del., got out of their car in the mall parking lot and headed for the main entrance, according to Wootson's brother, Mario Wootson, 32. 
As Wootson and her charges headed for the entranceway, a woman identified by police as Sylvia Seegrist got out of her car and 




!Bd?~c!J 'c£ ®(\~\~\ h~q 
anb Jramilu Etstaurant 
Follow 23 South to: 2610 Prairie Ave. South Bend 
288-3320 
~-~~·~~··~··•****************~jfjfjf 
LET US SHOW YOUt~ THE "FUN WAY" TO 
• Fun T•n, Inc. T•"'*'ll S.lon 
..-« 
..
..
..
..
..
..
.. 
..iC 
•.. 
iC 
: 
A BEAUTIFUL HEALTHY TAN! 




~~===::::3~ 

... 

iC NOW FOR A LIMITED TIME 
: 10% DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS i( AND FACULTY (single visit} 
iC 5% DISCOUNT ON PACKAGE 
i( PRICES!
f _ 

(Student ID Required) 
it No expiration on tanning visits 
~ STOP IN TODAY AND SEE USI OR CALL US AT 219/272·7653 ~ Located w..t of University Park on state Rood 23 ~ ~1916 FUN rAN. INC. 
~~~~·*******************~~~ 
Sl Rd. 23 · Unhwslty Commona South a.nd, IN • 2191272·7853 
Best Student Pricing 
3 Bed VIsits •...•. $19.00 3 Booth VIsits ...•.••••• 
7 Bed VIsits •..••. $33.25 7 
h VIsits••.• $16.15 
7 Bed VIs .•.• $47 SO 7 Booth visits. . • 
: 
..~ 
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
.. 
.." 
..
..
: 
started firing a .22-caliber semi­automatic rifle, missing two people. 
"She aimed the gun and started shooting the kids," said Mario Woot­son. Wootson was not at the mall, but in a telephone interview he related the events that were told to him. 
The third shot fired hit Cobsen in the heart, said Springfield police ChiefGeorge Hill. 
Tiffany Wootson, 10, and Kareen Wootson, 9, moved in front of the boy and two other children, 2-year­old Pia Williams and Niki Rothwell, 5, according to Walker. 
"They were trying to help the older women protect the children," said Walker, who visited the family in the emergency room of MetroPOlitan Hospital. 
The shooting stopped when Jack Laufer, a 24-year-old graduate stu­dent, walked up to the woman and took the rifle away from her, think­ing it was all some son ofHalloween prank being played on shoppers in the suburban Philadelphia mall. Laufer said he discovered it was not a prallk "when we saw the first vic­tim." 
Court decides mill worker had sex slave 

REDWOOD CllY, Calif. -A 
former mill worker was convicted 
Thursday of abducting a young 
hitchhiker at knifepoint and holding 
her in bondage for seven years as his 
sex slave. 
Cameron Hooker was convicted 
of 10of11 felonies: one count ofkid­
napping, six counts ofrape and three 
counts of sex-related acts. He was 
acquitted on one rape count. 
The San Mateo County Superior Court jury deliberated for three days, considering more than 140 items of evidence, including sexual bondage equipment made by Hooker and love letters written by the woman to Hooker while she was staying with Hooker and his wife, Janice. 
The defense claimed the woman 
fell in love with Hooker and was a 
willing participant in bondage 
rituals. 
The prosecution said the woman believed she would be killed if she escaped. 
Hooker, 31, was not arrested until three months after the woman tled from him in August 1984. It was his wife who finally brought in aut­horities, with the help of a cler­gyman. 
Under California's three-year statute of limitation on kidnapping, the jury had to decide ifshe was held captive during the entire seven years she lived with the Hookers in Red Bluff, a ranching and farming community 160 miles northeast of San Francisco. 
The defense argued the love let­ters to Hooker were a basis for that "reasonable belief." But the woman testified she wrote che letters only so he would treat her better, not be; cause she loved him. 
The Hookers admitted they kid­napped the woman, then 20 years old, at knifepoint as she hitchhiked near Red Bluff. Janice Hooker wa." granted immunity from prosecution in exchange for her testimony. 
The prosecution claimed the woman was locked into a box, kept under the Hookers' waterbed, for up to 23 hours at a time from 1981 to 1984. While admitting the woman was kept in the box, the defense said the woman was allowed out many times and ~hat the confinement was not as lengthy as claimed. 

• ( --• • • -/ -_· • • • • ' ' _,, • -• • -• -T • I 
The Observer Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 8 


Peggy Say, sister ofAP correspondent Terry An­hostage Rev. Benjamin Weir during a news con-· derson, being held in Lebanon, talks with former ference in Washington Wednesday. Story below. 

Shiit~s want prisoners for hostages 

Kuwait refuses to release the men, controlled Bekaa Valley of east jailed for bombing the U.S. and Lebanon. BAALBEK, Lebanon -The leader of French embassies in December "But for these guys Reagan and (French President Francois) Mitter­
a radical Shiite Moslem group said 1983. rand, I'm for kidnapping them and
there is no hope of five Americans Islamic Jihad claimed on Oct.4 
putting them on trial."
and four Frenchmen kidnapped in that it had killed a sixth American The five missing Americans are aLebanon being released until Kuwait hostage, U.S. diplomat William Buck­journalist, an academic, a librarian, a frees 1 7 extremists convicted of ley, in revenge for Israel's air strike Roman Catholic priest and a hospitalbombings. 
against Palestinian guerrillas in administrator.
Tunis. But Buckley's body has not
"I wish the demands of the kid­Musawi, who earlier describedbeen found, and American officialsnappers could be met and all the the 17 prisoners as "good guys,have said they cannot confirm the
Americans freed," said Hussein believers," defended the bombingsclaim.
Musawi, leader of the pro-Iranian Is­
in Kuwait. "The government of lamic Amal, a splinter group of the 
Kuwait is an agent of the AmericanMusawi said in an interview Wed­main Amal movement. 
government, just like Israel." 
nesday that he was not involved in The American hostages are: PeterBut he said that Islamic Jihad, or the kidnappings or in Islamic Jihad. 
Kilburn, 60, of San Francisco, Calif., 
Islamic Holy War, the group ofShiite But his group shares some ofthe stri­librarian at the American Universityfundamentalists believed to hold the dent anti-American philosophy· of ofBeirut, missing since Dec. 3, 1984;
U.S. and French hostages, will wait to the shadowy extremists and has Father Lawrence Jenco, 50, a Romanliberate the hostages until the similar links with Ayatollah Ruhollah Catholic priest of Joliet, Ill., kid­demands are met. Khomeini's revolutionary Iran. 
napped last Jan. 8; Terry Anderson, 
Release of the 17, most of them "I'm against the kidnapping of in­38, chief Middle East correspondent Shiites, has been IslamicJihad's main nocent people," he said in his for The Associated Press, a native of demand since it began kidnapping heavily guarded home in Baalbek, an Lorain, Ohio, kidnapped in west Westerners inJanuary 1984. ancient Roman town in the Syrian· Beirut on March 16. 


All Juniors Interested In 
Committee Chairmen and Committee Positions for 
JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND 
THERE ISA MEETING AT 
7:00 in Little Theatre LaFortune Monday, November 4 

What do..St.Dford have, that Berkeley do..n't ? Mrre got It, bat not CaL Tech. CoraeU'•Inc:laded, Columbia len't. 
Dake and VanderbUt have it. and now •••• 
NOTRE DAME does too. 
~ 

STY 
StiU etamped? Cheek oat 338 O'Shaagnesll)f, home of Notre Dame'• undergraduate Program In Sdence, Technology, and Valau. 

• -p,:..\Z.E S • Pta.l 'Z. E S • ?...tZ:. & S • 

Creative PartySlaoppe 
608 Liberty Dr. M,.hawaka 
RENTAL OF: 
c,ond'1 

cotto" Popcorn Machlna 
d aedflc)

Grtli-<GcJa an sno Cone 
Hot~ 
NachoCheae 

SUPPUES AVAilABLEFOR AU MACHINES 
Helium Rental and Sole ofBalloon. In collegiate and other colors Ho.....: 
~ ..-s,..•oii-Frf CAlL: 259 4807 ~ ..-12,....,_..._, VISA and Mastercard 

15 Exposure 24 Exposure 36Exposure Disc Roll Roll 
$2.97 $3.75 $5.49 
Check our SUPER SERVICE! 
Back next day or FREE 6 days s weeki 
Offer good thru Sun .. Mustshow student 10Card 
MERRICK'S 
Maple Lane Phcuiitacy
9UN..W,Itraet {Goodwill Plaza) 
111751t111M#D 


287-38&3 )I 272-7747 I 
• Special Notice: • : Weird Harold of Super Val Drugs : : predicts that Notre Dame will beat : : Navy 21·14. It "Weird Harold" is correct... : :He promises to take 20jotf ALL PURCHASES!: 
: "GO IRISH" . : 
The Observer Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 9 

Indiana resident prepares himself for historic transplant of 6 organs 
PITI'SBURGH · An Indiana in­surance adjuster awaiting historic surgery to transplant six abdominal organs says the chance of regaining his health, no maner how risky the procedure, is worth the gamble. 
"It's a big decision. But you put all your marbles on the table. You look at what you can have and what you have. There's such a vast difference," Herb Seal ofPekin, Ind., said from his bed at Presbyterian-University Hospital of Pittsburgh. 
The surgery, approved this week by the University of Pittsburgh, would replace Seal's liver, stomach, large and small intestines, pancreas and spleen. 
"Somebody said I'm like Barney Clark. In essence, I am that way," he said, referring to the late Seattle den­tist who received the first Jarvi.k-7 artificial heart in December 1982. 
"But if we can get a second chance at life, that because of medical progress we can make it ... I'm for­tunate I'm here. I figure I'm helping somebody else as well as myself," Seal said. 
All but six inches of Seal's in­
testines was removed in two opera­
tions 4 years ago because of 
complications from ulcerative 
colitis. Fourteen hours of daily in­
travenous feeding over the years has 
caused his liver to deteriorate. He 
also suffers from pancreatitis. 
"I'm told I'm in serious condition, that I'm slowly dying. Once the liver starts to go, it's gone, kind of like soured milk." Seal said in a telephone interview late Wednes­day night. 
Surgeons never have simul­taneously transplanted so many organs in approved surgery, accord­ing to Ann Metzger, spokesman for the university-affiliated hospital. 
Seal said he has been told the operation may last as long as 20 hours. Heading the surgical team will be Dr. Thomas Starzl, a leader in liver, kidney, heart-liver and pancreas transplants. 
Starzl attempted a similar multi­organ transplant two years ago in emergency surgery on a boy who had lost his intestines in a swimming pool accident. The child died after developing complications, includ­
ing pneumonia. 
Seal's transplant will be per­formed as soon as a donor of compatible size and blood type is found, according to hospital spokes­man Tom Chakurda. All six organs must come from the same person. 
"Everything is average, the Chev­
rolet model," said the 5-5, 139­
pound Seal, who has A-positive 
blood. "They're talking in the near 
future." 

Seal worked as an insurance 
adjuster and was involved with his 
family's fruit business in Mapleton, 
Utah, before becoming ill in 1981. · 
He moved with his wife, Bannah Sue, 
and their three children to a 
lakefront home in Pekin a year later 
to be closer to major hospitals. 
Se.ll's liver began to deteriorate rapidly several months ago and he was referred to Presbyterian­University Hospital for a liver transplant. Starzl and other Pit­tsburgh surgeons recommended, however, that six of his organs be removed in a single operation. 

Southside Denny & The Skintones 100Y.Blues 
f/Jat..Ja,_J 7:30 ~ -12:00 CBO«<6~ 'IJO«< ~~ 'IJO«<.Atawe, ~9-... 
~ 

Facing the nation 

A 90-foot figure of tbe late Prime Minister Indira Gandbi is readied for a rally Thursday on tbe anniversary ofber assassitU~­tion. A crowd ofperhaps one million people was expected at tbe cerf!monies nearIndia Gate. 
Tired of Running Around for Bargains? 


Please Place Your Ring Orders Before November. 5, 1985 to Assure Delivery Before Christmas. 
HOURS: 1:00 P.M. to 4:30P.M. 
Monday -Friday 
IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

...HONDA 

Bob Welch 
Sales Representative Used Car Department 
3820 Grape Rd.
Phone(219)256-5550 
Mishawaka. IN 46545 


Special Student I Youth Fares to 




SCANDINAVIA 
On Scheduled Airlines! 
The inexpensive way to get to Scandinavia. 
Winter Rates: 
New York to Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm from $215 one way, $350 roundtrip Chicago to Copenhagen from $215 one way, $350 roundtrip Chicago to Oslo, Stockholm from $255 one way, $430 roundtrip and tours designed especially for students to the 
SOVIET UNION 
For Information CaD: 
WHOLE WORLD TRAVEL 17 E. 45th St., New York, NY 10017 (212) 986-9470 

~-·--­

The Observer Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 10 


Soviets and Americans consider possible swap 
HAMBURG, West Germany -The United States and Soviet Union are negotiating the release of Soviet dissidents Andrei Sakharov and Anatoly Shcharansky in exchange for imprisoned Communist spies, a West German newspaper reported Thursday. 
The mass-circulation Bild daily said Soviet Communist Party leader Mikhail Gorbachev would "give a signal" for the trade if his Nov. 19-20 
.., summit meeting with President 
,, 

Reagan "comes off well." 
Bild, citing "diplomatic sources in Moscow and Washington," said negotiations on the dissident-spy swap were going on simultaneously in both cities and East Berlin, capital ofCommunist East Germany. 
It was not immediately possible to confirm the report officially. 
Involved in the talks, said Bild, are Francis Meehan, the U.S. ambassador to East Germany, and Wolfgang Vogel, an East German lawyer who has been piv6tal in talks that resulted in major East-West spy ex­changes in recent years. 
MOSCOW · Moscow authorities kept silent Wednesday on reports that Yelena Bonner, wife ofdissident physicist Andrei Sakharov, would be allowed to go to the West for medi­cal treatment. 
The Soviet ambassador to West Germany, \1adimir Semyonov, told The Associated Press in Bonn he believed the reports that she would leave for medical care were true, but he said he did not know when she would go and where. 
Soviet sources who have had sporadic news of the Sakharovs during their exile in Gorky, 250 miles east of Moscow, said they had heard no word from the 60-year-old Bonner. 
The sources, who spoke on condi· tion of anonymity, said they did not know ifBonner would go to the Sak· harov~· Moscow apartment before leaving for treatment for glaucoma, an eye ailment that threatens her sight. 
Both she and her husband, 64, winner of the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize and the Soviet Union's best known dissident, also have heart· conditions. 
Police who have guarded the apartment since Bonner was 
Sakharov, 64, and Shcharansky, 37, the Soviet Union's best known human rights activists, would be released in exchange for Soviet bloc spies imprisoned in the West, ac­cording to Bild. 
Sakharov had gone on several hunger strikes in the past five years to win permission for his wife to go West for treatment. She reportedly suffers from glaucoma, which could blind her. 
Bild, well known for its diplomatic contacts, said a swap was being negotiated "under the stric­test secrecy." The trade allegedly broke down as follows: The United States was ready to send imprisoned East Bloc agents to the Soviet Union. 
Also to be handed over to the East would be two Communist spies jailed in West Germany. They were identified as Lothar Erwin Lutze of East Germany, and Yevgeni Sem­liakov ofthe Soviet Union. 
In return, Moscow would free Shcharansky, Sakharov and up to 12 imprisoned agents of the United States, Britain and West Germany. 

Bonner release rumored 
detained in Gorky in May 1984 told Western reporters no one was ther~. Sakharov was exiled to Gorky in 
1980. 

Victor Louis, the Soviet journalist who said Tuesday that Bonner will be permitted to go to the West for treatment, told The AP on Wednes­day the decision on her departure "is all sort of in the hands of the family." 
He said he presumed Bonner's relatives in the United States would 
be  able  to  get  details  of  any  
departure by  telephoning  her  in  
Gorky.  

Efrem Yankelevich, who is married to Bonner's daughter, told reporters Tuesday from his home at Newton, Mass., that the family had booked telephone calls to the Soviet Union on Wednesday and Thursday in an attempt to confirm the reports she would leave. 
In Moscow, officials at Ovir, the visa-issuing authority, referred news media inquiries to the Foreign Mini· stry. Spokesmen there said they had heard rumors about Bonner's leaving. 
But reporters at the airport said Wednesday's Austrian Airlines flight to Vienna left Moscow without Bon· ner aboard. The airline said it had no passenger booked under that name. 
VISIT 
The Snite Museum ofArt 
University of Notre Dame 
(across the street from the Football Stadium on Dorr Rd.) 
Hours:  Friday  10amto4pm  
Saturday  9 am to 12:30 pm  
Sunday  1 pm to4 pm  

TM Friends ofthe Snite Museum ofArt welcome you to enjoy Notre Dame's proud tradition ofthe finest in culture and art. 

Astronauts conduct experiment to determine space sickness cause 

HOUSTON, Kennedy Space Center -Challenger's astronauts endured jolting, carnival-like rides on a sled rolling on 12-foot-rails inside their orbiting laboratory Thursday in an experiment to learn why people get sick in space. 
None of the four test subjects reported getting sick and NASA flight director Chuck Knarr said all eight crew members were healthy, but experiments designed to confuse and upset the inner ear balance mechanism did take a toll. 
Ernst Messerschmid, one of two West German scientists in the eight-member crew, reported that "the ceiling appeared to be the floor," an illusion that he said took him more than half an hour \P dis· pell. 
Messerchmid was one of four who rode an electric-powered sled that is able to give sudden and violent acceleration forces equiv­alent to the force of gravity on Earth. While riding the sled, the astronauts wore helmets that blacked out their sight or dis· played a rotating dome painted with dots to further confuse their vestibular system, or balance mec­hanism. 
The experiments began just a few hours after Wednesday's noon lau'nch of Challenger from Ken­nedy Space Center, and continued into Thursday as the crew, the largest ever launched, started 24­hour operations in the pressurized Spacelab carried in the shuttle's cargo bay. 
All of the experiment equip­ment in the laboratory was turned on, but officials reported that a furnace intended to melt metals malfunctioned. Experts on the ground worked to figure out how to fix it. 
The astronauts also launched a small experimental Defense 

Department satellite called the Global -Low Orbiting Message Relay, a Defense Advance Research Projects Agency system designed to track Soviet submarines under the Arctic ice. 
The laboratory's 76 experi­ments were designed to study the effects of zero gravity, actually microgravity in the shuttle's low orbit, on melted metals and glasses, biological samples includ· ing insects and frog eggs, and on the astronauts themselves. 

Although the furnace failed, the astronauts reported a successful start on a number ofother experi­ments. Data was collected on a colony of fruit flies that will hatch during the seven-day mission, and lights were turned on to start ger­mination of corn seeds. Also on board are fertilized frog eggs, a colony of one-celled animals called paramecia, and a variety of' bacteria 



NEWSCHEDULE 
LEA•• 

II8TII .. --.,. 
UIE IEIIOUL -IEIIOIIAL u• 
-
LIM AIII'OIIT ...
1111 AIII'OIIT AIliVE 

O'UIIE IIUTIIEII IIELTD
IIELTER 10111 IEID O'IIAIIE 


Ulu. I:Ziu. I:Ziu. lUI La 12:!1 ,... 2:!1,.•. 4:11J&
1:11,... 
• 1:11 .... 
4:• ...!
....... 
1:..... 
ll:olll La 
12:41 ,... 
2:41 ,... 4:41J& 
1:41 J&', 1:41J& 
......
......
....... . 
12:00 ,.•. 
2:00 ,... 
4:DD ,.._
......
1:11,...
....... 

ALL ARRIVALS AND DEPARTURES ON LOCAL TIME. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS (Z19) 674-699) OR CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT 
SKI CDLDRADD 
ATTHEENDOF CHRISTMAS BREAK 
.Janu..-y.-12 Vall-Capp.r Mauntaln-K•y•ta.,. 
I:Jiu. II:Mu. ll:tl,.. ll:llu. 1:8 .... t:ee_a
.,...

IZ:II .... »::I .... 
..,...

Z:ll,.a i:lllla 
4:38 ,... 7:11,... .•,... 
1:311 ,... .,.. ,... ...,...
....... II:M .... INiu.
..... ...
11:11 .... 

..... ....IZ:IIa.a 
.....,.­

..-....­

Thl• trip 8PDRIIIIr•d by Trav..ZDDG, a ••rvlc• IUJ•ncy •p•ci..IZIIUJ In law-ca•ttrav•l adv.ntu..... 
* 
lu*urlous naountaln-top eondonalnlunas 

* 
prlwat• h•alth elull lneludlnr. 


Indoor pool, Jaeussl, sauna, rae4uet1Hlll *lift tle••t•at Vall{~} Copp.,. Mountain(~}, K~ston•(~J *d•lu•••otor eoaeh transportation round trip 
frotn the ea111pus OR we will pte• ~ou up on th• wa~ to Colorado. 
* fr•• ••tlason for •••lnn•r• *optional us• of rent·a·ear 
* top-4uallt~ rentals.lsawallalll• 
Cost $ 349.00 
~~aM ~~a-"1a~ "'~~~/Pee ;,.,~.9'"~~ §~. ~~/7S.OO 

Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 11 
University should lead in apartheid divestment 
Let's be very plain. 
The constructive engagement policy embraced by Notre Dame's South African 
investments policy does not work. It has proved itselfto be ineffective in advanc­
ing the human rights ofblacks in that country. Therefore, the administration must 
assume a policy ofdivestment. 
The University must take a moral stand and recognize its responsibility as a 
leading voice in Catholic America. It must use its influence to the fullest extent to 
end the racist apartheid regime in South Africa. 
To do this, the administration should incorporate into its policy the suggestions 
of the Anti-Apartheid Network. If the South African government has not taken 
realistic steps to endthe apartheid system by Feb. 1, 1986, then Notre Dame must 
request that the U.S. firms in which it owns stock begin disinvesting. If the com­
panies refuse, the University must divest from those companies. 
The moral arguments the University uses to support its stand are out-of-date 
and unrealistic: 
•Hesburgh's main contention is that a pull-out by U.S. companies would resultonly in immediate investmentby companiesfrom othernations -such as japan and West Germany -which would not be as concerned with dismantling apartheid. 
Given this attitude, it would make more sense for Notre Dame to invest all its 
funds in South Africa to prevent others from moving in. This is, ofcourse, unrealis­
tic -as unrealistic as the University's·attitude. 
The University's claim that it is trying to help blacks and that given time, the Botha government will be forced to reform falls apart in view of the fact that constructive engagement has been going on for 3 7 years now and apartheid is getting worse, not better. 
During the past year, the violence and injustice in South Africa have escalated. The government denies human rights, brutally represses any sign of black solidarity, and regularly arrests and tonures its black citizens. Because blacks are becoming increasingly vocal and violent in expressing their frustrations, the situation is coming to a head and civil war appears to be imminent. . 
•The University bas more influence in ending apartheid by having invest­ments there. 
How many more people must die before the University is convinced that con­structive engagement is not enough? While U.S. companies adhering to the Sullivan Principles have helped the handful of blacks on their payroll, what evidence is there that they have helped bring about any changes in the fundamen­tal structure of apartheid? 
Hesburgh has been, by his own admission, instrumental in the U.S. civil rights movement. His involvement has shown that there are more effective ways to bring about change than through corporate investments. Through divestment, Hesburgh can make a strong statement companies would be forced to listen to. 
•A large-scale divestment, and the resulting economic crisis, would hurt blacks more than anybody else. 
Undoubtedly, divestment would cause South African blacks to suffer. But such a policy will lead to their ultimate freedom. According to the late Chief Albert Luthuli, Nobel Prize winner and president of the African National Congress, "Ifit is a method which will shorten the day ofblood, the suffering to us.will be a price we are willing to pay. In any case, we suffer already, our children are under­nourished, and ... we die at the whim ofa policeman." 
What the University is doing now to stop apartheid is not enough. Notre Dame must live up to its moral commitment and truly support measures that will end the nightmare. Nothing else has worked. It's time for divestment. 
At the end of June, I left South Bend for seven weeks in Europe -two weeks in Italy and five in England. In spite of the scramble that proceeded departure, I thought I had most contingencies covered, not so as it turned out. For as we deplaned at Heathrow, London, culture-shock quite unexpectedly felled me. Transition from the United States is exasperatingly difficult. We travel from this country freighted with biases, seldom mindful of the fact that, anthropologically speaking, we carry with us as much cultural baggage as any New Guinea head-hunter or Iranian fun­damentalist. 
Ann Pettifer 
guest column
• 

On a train journey from London to Pisa, 
culture-shock degenerated into neurasthenia. 
There were only four members in our party, 
which left two couchettes in our compart­
ment available to strangers. The anxiety we 
felt at the thought of sharing what we had al­
ready come to think of as our space, was im­
mense. At Paris a stranger did come aboard, a 
fragile-looking African from Senegal. Using my 
execrable French, I pieced together his story; 
he was on his way to Florence to serve an ap­
prenticeship in watch-making. 
Our L.L. Bean luggage, which had colonized most of the available racks, suffered no com­petition from his scant belongings which were contained in an orange p~tic shopping bag. As we fretted and fussed about space, food, teeth-cleaning and pyjama-donning rituals, this gentle, apprehensive African traveller folded himself neatly away on the top bunk. Without a single direct reproach, he had reminded us first-worlders of the enormous chasm our economic and cultural hegemony has created. 
Italy was enchanting. We stayed with friends in their monastic Tuscan farmhouse. Not surprisingly, we were not yet through with culture-shock. A number of Tuscan hill towns are run efficiently and imaginatively by the local Communist government. It was faintly shocking to see the hammer and sickle displayed so openly. 
One afternoon our hosts' mechanic, Juliano, dropped by for a glass ofwine. Scruffy and down at heel, he proved a formidable con­versat-ionalist. With our host acting as trans­lator, a vigorous discussion followed. Juliano was a card-carrying Communist. With im­pressive assurance -not in the least in­timidated by the fact that his auditors were university educated -he dispatched political 
Garry Trudeau 


IA/ANT7060 50RR.'t BABY. 

-The Observer 

Doonesbury 
aJfiL, TH/fT 5HOUW GIV& THE FlAMERS 50M£THIN6 TO TALK ABOUT, HUH 2 
0/f) YCXJ SEE THCJR FfJaS WHEN /A/5 SKIPP&OCXJT OF 7H£RE HAN{) INHAN/l? UH­

After years of searching he had finally found his lucky rabbit's foot 

Culture shock complete in trip through Europe 
/A/HATA 

MAK£ afTIN IM 7r.xJ TIW 70
PIECE OF TCJTALLY 
PU8UC 9JM&-MA1<t ANOTHeR

?HeATCI<.! HAPPENING. 
I 
1 

issues from imperialism to the Vatican's 
banking practices, and he did so 
knowledgeably and seemingly without ran­
cor. 

While politics retain a cenain vitality in 
Italy, religion is languishing. The Mass and 
religious processions -I joined one following 
the blessed sacrament -are almost exclusively 
female affairs, usually middle-aged or old 
women at that. At those weekday Masses I 
happened upon, the women seemed poor and 
beaten. 
On Sunday, in Italy as in the United States, 
the borghese strut their stuff. Still, virtually 
the only males present were those officiating 
at the altar. The Catholic Church, it seems, has 
failed to evangelize Italian men. It is not easy 
to account for this phenomenon. Perhaps 
Italian men see politics, and not the Church, as 
the vehicle for social transformation. Or there 
may be a simpler explanation at hand: Italians 
live cheek by jowl with the Vatican. 
On a quick trip to Foyles in London, before I 
left for Italy, I picked up a new paperback 
called "In God's Name" written by a British 
investigative journalist, David Yallop. Yallop 
contends that Pope John Paul I, the chap who 
preceeded the present pope, was murdered 
because he was about to clean out the curial 
Augean stable. Yallop has assembled an enor­
mous amount ofevidence on Vatican coanter­
feit bond swindles and corruption in high 
places, which includes Mafia and fascist­
Masonic connections. 
This evidence is being treated with respect by establishment journals like The Economist which wrote: "An engrossing and disturbing book. It reflects no credit on the Vatican that its spokesmen affect to view the charges with contempt and ignore the questions raised ... A prominent Catholic theologian recently remarked, "Ifonly one-fifth ofthis stuff is true, we are in deep trouble." For Catholics tired of hectoring from the custodians ofCatholic or­thodoxy, this book is their best rejoinder. 
The train journey home was a snap. The up­per middle class Americans, recent graduates ofa Southern university, joined us at Genoa. It was a relief to be back with our own tribe, with people who engaged in the same rituals. They were a handsome couple, easy-going and confident; we chatted amiably about life in the South. But behind the Jamesian in­nocence there lurked facile opinions and at­titudes. 
Britian's Margaret Thatcher's politics of selfishness were applauded, Reds were baited and Southern paternalism was endorsed slyly. 
Culture-shock had, finally, come full circle. 
Ann Pettifer is a Notre Dame alumna. 
Quote of the day 
"No shade, no shine, no buttertlles, no bees, No fruits, no flowers, no leaves, no birds, ­November!" 
Thomas Hood 
(1799-1842) 
"No!" 

a a a z a a
= & =a a 
View~_o__i__l_l__t__________
w_ee_k_e_n_d_E_d•-·tt-·o_n_,_N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_l_-_2,_1_98_s_-_p_a_g_e_1_2 

P.O. BoxQ 
"' 
f. 
r 'r
I;
.. 
_; .j 
i { 
!; . ' 
'•'
I' 
Sophomore officers ask students to take action 
Dear Edttor: 
From the first meeting of the Student 
Senate, disunity and power struggles have 
marred the body. Despite Student Body Presi­
dent Bill Healy's best intentions for providing 
an equitable student forum, several senate 
members have refused to grant Healy's 
cabinet the chance it deserves. 
Despite the ineffectiveness of the senate, 
we, the officers of the sophomore class, think 
the organization is the only representative 
voice of the student body and should not be 
dissolved. 
Therefore, we do not support Bill Healy's 
current action to abolish the senate, but we do 
believe that the impeachment ofHealy would 
render student government completely inef­
fective. And, a newly elected student body 
president would cause even further dissen­
sion. 
Therefore, we encourage students to: 
•
Maintain the senate by voting against the amendment. 

•
Demand that the senate immediately begin restructuring student government. 

•Support 
Healy's administration. 


Steve Georgi Cathy Nonnenkamp LaurleBink Sean Doyle Sophomore class officers 
ND students are unique in their care for others 
Dear Editor: 
Ofthe many different aspects ofstudent life 
at Notre Dame, the one I feel is most intrigu­
ing is the friendly, helping attitude displayed 
throughout the Notre Dame community by 
certain campus organizations and by many 
students. 
The assistance that is given includes anyth­
ing from showing companionship to the less 
fortunate from the surrounding community to 
helping a confused freshman through his ad­
justment from high school to college. I find 
these services invaluable. 
One program that extends its aid off 
campus is the Neighborhood Study Help 
Program. This group is composed of about 
250 to 300 students who offer their tutoring 
services to students in both elementary and 
high school. Besides tutoring the students, the 
program participants also take the children to 
picnics and to leisure activities such as 
bowling. SQ, in addition to teaching these 
children, the tutors become friends with 
them, which is precisely what some of them 
need. 
Another organization that lends its help to 
those in need is the Council for the Retarded. 
This, again, js a student-run program, but they 
limit their assistance to retarded children. The 
members of this group go to Logan Center 
where they entertain retarded kids. I feel 
proud to attend a University at which the stu­
dents are willing to spend some of their time 
entertaining the less fortunate. Their con­
sideration and compassionis unparalleled. 
In addition to the clubs, I think the majority 
of the individual students at Notre Dame also 
are willing to give their assistance. During my 
first day ofclasses here, I remember being in a 
state of confusion on my way to the Rockne 
Memorial. I asked a fellow student how to get 
there, and he proceeded to walk me to my 
destination. / 
Domesbury 
Considering the fact that he was on his way to class on the other side of campus, I found his act very generous. 
From these examples, I have concluded that many Notre Dame students are unique in their care for the well-being ofothers because 
of their  helpful,  considerate  and  friendly  
characteristics.  
DavidE. Lese  
Grace Hall  

Impoliteness violates the purpose of protests Dear Editor: 
In a recent letter, graduate student Timothy Thomas condones the "supposed" impolite­ness ofJohn Dettling and Pat Bacchanari, in­ferring that it is a necessary response to the violent methods used by South African police. Although I believe that the accusations against Dettling and Bacchanari are unfounded, I think the analogy made by Thomas is poor and distorts the entire campus anti-apartheid ef­fort. 
First, interpersonal relations between members ofthe Notre Dame investment com­mittee have absolutely nothing to do with the manner with which South African police treat black residents. Politeness and profes­sionalism by student government representatives must be maintained at all times, regardless of the desperation of any issue with which they deal. Second, the "eye for an eye" attitude taken byThomas provides no more of a solution to the South African situation than University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's rhetoric. It also con­tradicts the non-violent idealism of such anti­apartheid leaders as Bishop Desmond Tutu. While the plight of blacks in South Africa might not be solved without escalating violence, it certainly will not be solved by Notre Dame students emulating the actions of the officials they are protesting. 
Georgejordan Notre Dame student 
Removal of president has many ramifications 
Dear Editor: 
It is amazing that many members ofthe stu­dent body of Notre Dame lack the foresight and understanding to realize the implications of electing a new student body president and student body vice president in mid-term. 
Student government does not consist of only these two offices. Besides the student body presiden!_ and student body vice presi­dent, there are approximately 70 other stu­dents who, as members of the cabinet, are working to improve student life and to represent student interests at Notre Dame. 
For example, the Social Concerns Film Series is run by student government in con­junction with the Center for Social Concerns. The United Way drive is sponsored hy student government. 
Through student government there is a study being done on minority life at Notre Dame that should result in some practical solutions to the underlying problem of racial prejudice on campus. The Health and Food Advisory Councils, which keep administrators updated on specific student needs, are or· ganized through student government. 
If Bill Healy and Duane Lawrence are removed from office these and many other worthwhile projects will end. Whoever would take their place would have to appoint 



Yt>lJ HtAN INf CAN tl~ tND
HIS~ F~~H, {,IJIAT'S fHIS AfJlJVT 
VP LPOK/Nb LlffE AJ4K.fl)W­
stuPFNrS we 1/.f'/JB) 

PA~l'.'TIV.S. ~..tS THttf ANY, UN 
HINDfl) FHAKISfES ~ WE CAN 
• • f.AKIINJTY 1r 

a new cabinet, re-allocate all student govern­ment funds and instigate new projects. This is obviously a waste; Healy and Lawrence stayed here all summer to organize the events of this year's administration. Many of the projects take an entire semester to be actualized, and there have already been thousands of dollars spent implementing the projects underway. 
The election of a new student body presi­dent and vice president would end only in the waste of time, money, and many people's ef­forts; it also would result in an ineffective ad­ministration. The new officers would be faced with a time limit that would make any results impossible. Even if the new student leaders could organize miraculously an entire ad­ministration by second semester, they would have only two months, until the annual elec­
tion  in  March,  to  see  their  plans  ac­ 
complished.  
Instead  of acting rashly,  we  hope  the  

student body realizes that by electing a new student body president and student body vice president they will be choosing a new, neces­sarily inefficient government. Such an elec­tion would waste already existing expenditures ofideas, time and money. 
BetbMcCabill Executtve coordinator -student interests KarenNill Executive coordinator -student life 
Attitude responsible for Royals comeback 
Dear Editor: 
Lately many weighty matters have been dis­cussed in this space, South Africa, U.S.-Soviet relations, even campus social life. But I'd like to comment upon our yearly fall classic here in America, the WorldSeries. Why? Well, yes it was exciting and all, but I wonder if maybe we here at Notre Dame could learn something from it. 
That's right, I said learn something. Look, how did the Kansas City Royals, cenainly no team ofsuperstars, twice rally from being be­hind three games to one and become world champions? 
Oh sure, my fellow sports adicts and I could point out technical reasons: the fine pitching of men named Charlie Leibrandt, Bret Saber­hagen, and Danny jackson, the hitting of a third baseman named George Brett and good overall play by Lonnie Smith and, yes, even Buddy Biancalana. 
Adding to the Royals' effort was the ap­parent infestation of Cardinal bats with termites. But all that would be missing the point. The key here was attitude, a positive one. When they got behind, there was no finger pointing, no backbiting, no whispers that the manager was through or that he should resign. 
The Royals just hung in there and gave I 20 percent instead of II0 percent, and in the end it paid off. 
Now anyone can tell that I am referring to the all too-prevalent attitude toward Notre Dame's football team. But this also can be applied to life in general. Instead of getting down, dig a little deeper, try a little harder, cheer a little louder. 
I am not saying it will always pay off in championships, or straight As. But it sure can't hurt. just ask the Royals and while you're at it ask them to show you their World Series rings. Think positive and remember, the Royals showed you the way. · 
KevinSmant Notre Dame graduate student 
John Heasly 


Senior Bar shut down due to guests' behavior 
Dear Editor: 
This past weekend wa.S an exciting one for both the alumni and the students at Notre Dame. Our football team played excellently against USC, the weather was outstanding, and most of of us were fired-up after a great Oc­tober break. One ofthe best indicators ofthis excitement was the huge number of fans that filled Senior Bar to capacity and then some. 
Unfortunately, because of numerous im­
matute acts, Senior Bar was left in an in­
tolerable state after Saturday night's dosing. 
There were holes punched in the walls, 
broken windows, smashed bottles throughout 
the building, misuse of the restrooms and a 
broken fence. 
Because ofSenior Bar's condition, we were 
not allowed to open the facility this past Wed­
nesday night. As staff, we firmly believe that 
the majority ofthis damage was caused not by 
the students, but rather by those visiting for 
the weekend. We apologize, therefore, for the 
inconvenience that was caused by our 
dosing. The students were forced to suffer the 
consequences ofothers' actions. 
We hope that in the future we can avoid 
such problems, but to insure this we need 
your help. As seniors, remember this is your 
bar. Ifyou see othersdestroyingdub property 
either stop them, or report it to a staff mem­
ber. The only people who really suffer in the 
long run are the students. This is our place to 
have fun and after the weekend is over, our 
"guests" just go home. 
David Wood General manager Bryan Dedrick Promotion manager Kevin Monissey Inventory manager 

ND investment profits should assist Africans 
Dear Editor: 
I am not questioning Notre Dame's invest­
ment policy in South Africa. Maybe we .;::an 
apply some pressure and force the South 
African government to end apartheid. I do 
want to question what is being done with the 
profits generated from our investments. The 
rate ofreturn is about 30 percent. 
Ifwe really want to help South Africa, why 
don't we use these profits milked out of the 
people to help them. We could send food and 
medicine; build schools and hospitals; give 
the money back to the workers; buy out "evil" 
investors, thus being able to create more 
pressure on the South African government 
and send coffins after the civil war starts. 
But pumping these profits back into South 
Africa would not mean a tuition raise or a halt 
in any vital programs here on campus. Our 
ample endowment could cover any losses suf­
fered. Or a cutback in extraneous ex­
penditures, for instance, the mounted police 
patroling Green Field, would reduce any 
losses. Sending the money back to the black 
South Africans would not cause any great 
economic sacrifices back here, if we are only 
maintaining our investments to bring about 
moral justice. 
Roger Diegel ZabmHall 

The Viewpoint Department 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 
46556 

VieWP-Oint Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 13 
Nicaraguan civil rights thlvarted by the Sandinistas 

An article from Associated Press entitled "Suspension of Civil Rights Sparks Contlict in Nicaragua," published on Thursday, Oct. 17, is misleading. Trouble and conflict existed in Nicaragua just a few months after the San­dinistas took control ofthe country. 
Adolfo Calero 
guest column 
Moreover, constitutional rights basically have been suspended since that time. Being a Nicaraguan myself, I can relate to you several incidents that illustrate this fact. 
On one occasion, while trying to find out what those new people wearing the uniforms were like, I had a discussion about the shut· down of a left-wing radical newspaper that had started publication just after July 1979, the month the government changed hands. I questioned a Sandinista officer and said it seemed to me that the reason why Nicaraguans had lived through terrible months of civil war was precisely because they were tired of being denied freedom of speech and countless other rights. 
,JUs answer, literally, was this: "Most people do not know what they should read; it is therefore the obligation ofthe government to choose for them. Furthermore, you should not concern yourself with things you do not know about." 
I decided I had nothing else to ask and that it would be clever to leave before the man got angry. Friends of mine spent a night in jail for expressing similar opinions, and I was not about to wait to see if the same would happen to me. I realized afterwards that my dreams of freedom for Nicaragua and Nicraguans would not be what I h;;.d imagined. 
There are many other concrete observa­tions and actions that help to elucidate the character of the Sandinistas and the suspen­sion of civil rights several years ago. For ex­
ample, huge billboards line the streets of the 
main cities in Nicaragua, serving as a warning 
to anyone who does not agree with the San· 
dinista government. The billboards read, 
"Counter-revolutionary, the eyes of the 
revolution are watching you . . . Neighbor· 
hood Committees ofDefense.'' Two huge eyes 
and a hand holding a gun accompany the logo. 
This is a definite threat to those who do not 
support the policies of the government, as 
weU as a vehicle for mass coercion. If this 
• seems a lame threat, it should become more serious when you remember that these Neigh­borhood Committees of Defense are practi· caUy in every neighborhood, and that they have the power to dispense rationingcoupons for oil and other necessities, as weU as letters of recommendation which the government asks to see for travel abroad, local employ­ment, etc. 
The person leading the neighborhood com­
mittee usually is handpicked by a Sandinista 
representative, and can be counted on to be 
the most pro-Sandinista person in that area. 
Now consider the visit by Popejohn Paul II. 
During that visit the Sandinistas sent trained 
mobs in government vehicles to harass and 
boycott the meeting between the pope and 
the people, but the supporters and followers 
of the pope outnumbered the Sandinistas by 
far. 

These mobs did manage to be disrespectful 
toJohn Paul II and to carry out one more act in 
a long list of hostile acts against the Catholic 
Church of Nicaragua. 
These ume shock troops, similar to those used by Hitler and Mussolini, caUed the "divine mobs" by President Ortega, also burned and ransacked the offices of the Na­tional Democratic Movement and the Con­servative Democratic Party while police stood by an watched. These government sponsored mobs also attack the homes of political figures, destroy their property and spray slogans on the wall, many of which are death threats. 
What about the closing of the newspaper, La Presna, at least 15 times since this revolu­tion began, and the obligation to submit every single page to the censorship office for ap· proval during r.he last several years? What about the official lifting ofcensorship, just two weeks before the "first free elections" to be held in Nicaragua, so that other parties could present their views? 
After the so-caUed elections, censorship returned. Political parties not allied with the Sandinistas have not been permitted normal access to the media for years. How can these elections be called free? 
lbis new suspension of civil rights, if there are any left, is just a public statement designed to confuse public opinion and to make people think there has been freedom in the pasL President Ortega claims US agression causes aU the problems in Nicaragua This is a ridiculous charge that is disproved by thousands of Nicaraguans who are willing to hold guns and use them. 
President Ortega claims that this suspen· sion ofrights is a consequence ofthe war, but, in fact, it is the other way around; the war is a consequence of the suspension ofcivil rights which took · place several years ago. Civil rights is not in the Sandinista lexicon nor will it ever be a part ofit. 
Adolfojose Calero is a first year MBA stu­dent atNotre Dame. 

Campus Comments: Should Student Body President Bill Healy be recalled or not? 

No, Healy is doing everything Yes, he's an incompetent presi­No, because I reaUy don't under­Yes, the election was bogus and Ycs, because he tried to abolish 
they say he's not doing, and not dent and I'm embarrassed to have stand the problems. student government was in an the Student Senate and any type doing everything they say he's him represent me." uproar. of democratic representation doing." should not be abolished. 
Bill Donnelly Tess Doering Heather Breiter Patrick McManus Blll Purcell Senior Senior Freshman Senior Senior Dillon Hall Lyons Hall Farley Hall Morrissey Hall Moreau Seminary 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Ham1lton Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................ Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor................................ . ......... Frank lipo Advertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspap'3f' published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executtve Editor . ...... Theresa Guarino Production Manager ............... ...... John A. Men nell 
administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor........... . . . ...................... Jeff Blumb 
Sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of amajority of the Editorial Board. Commen· 
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
tanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy 
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
:~ 
Jj 

' 
~ 
i•· 
' ' 

I 
I 
I
I . 
!· 






Accent 
Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 14 

Suffering calls for love, understanding 
son was dead. He had taken his own In the great emergencies like over. A well-intentioned young 
life. war, each of us is father and mother man, hating the idea ofbeing aFather Robert Griffin The body was flown home in a burden, made a decision that broke
or brother and sister to the victims 
I 
G.I. casket. Before the funeral, the ofviolence. In the family of everybody's heart. He could have Letters to a Lonely God undenaker opened the casket so mankind, parents can't divide the been kinder. You don't hold it that a bereaved family could say children intoyours and mine; they against him. He didn't know what goodbye to their soldier, home can only recognize them as ours. he was doing. n Canada last week I heard a story young stranger a member of the from the war. Only then did they Fathers and mothers who reject the Later, his parents would realize that may be truth or fiction. A family. realize the extent ofhis battle responsibility for the leaSt oftheir that ifthey had listened harder, they young soldier, wounded in battle, Their son wrote: "In fairness, I wounds. The 20-year-old body was children are ironically punished. would have heard his cry for help.. was confined for many months in an should warn you: my buddy has a missing an arm and a leg. They may spend the rest oftheir The cries for help are all around us, 
overseas hospital. As the time for handicap. He lost one of his arms in Stories like this come out of lives with a tragic kind of egg on but we're not good listeners. A 
his release drew near, he wrote his a grenade blast." every war. As you're deciding the their faces. youngster comes out of a foxhole 
parents a letter: "I have a buddy His parents answered: "The loss stories are myths, somebody tells On the other hand, the soldier with half his limbs gone. After six 
whom I would like lO bring home of an arm is very sad. As far as we're you: "I know a family to whom it with the missing limbs didn't offer months in a foreign hospital, he 
with me. He's been with me concerned, it will make us love him happened." William Sloan Coffin his family the chance to work things writes home, hinting how badly 
through thick and thin. He either more." lost his 24-year-old son in an auto out. In a home with love in it, you damaged he is. Some of the despair 
comes home with me or he stays In another letter: "He's missing a accident. His friends tried to can always work things out. How and depression must have shown in 
here. He has no other choice. leg as well as an arm. The left side of console him with their talk ofthe infinitely sad those parents must the letter. 
The parents quickly assured thier his body was mutilated, and he's Will ofGod being done. The sor­have felt when they understood the His parents missed the hints, son that his buddy would be a badly crippled." rowful father tuned them out: "At test to which their love had been because they thought they knew welcome guest. The parents responded: "Son, the news of}im's death, God was subjected. The lad should have what the score was. They didn't find 
The wounded G.l. wrote again: we'd like to help. After talking it the first one to weep." God always known that a stranger, no matter out the score until the game was "I'm not sure that you understand. I over, we've decided that we can't crys when the good die young. how near and dear, is not as close as over. They completely missed the would like you to give my buddy a accept such a responsibility. It You have here, out of Canada, the one's own flesh and blood. cries for help. Some of us are not home. I would like you to welcome wouldn't be fair to your brothers kind ofcautionary tale that God makes us fierce in caring for very satisfactory as an older genera­
him as you've always welcomed me and sisters." alienated youth like to tell on the our own. The father at the graveside tion. Alienated youth are right in and treat him as lovingly as you There were no more letters. The adults. Hollywood has made a may have well asked the dead: "My not trusting us as parents. Still, always treat your children." parents didn't hear a word from the cliche out of the blindness and boy, didn't you know I would lay suicide is so cruel. It leaves you 
The parents, marvelling at the hospital for a month. Finally, a selfishness on the other side ofthe down my life for you? How could with nothing to say. Hearing the devotion between soldiers who telegram came from the war depart­·generation gap. Those parents you hurt your mother by doubting crazy stories, you ask where the have been in action together, ment, followed by a letter from the should have guessed who the am­us so much?" The survivors were fault lies. Let him who is without sin 
promised that they would make the chaplain, notifying them that their putee was. left with a guilt they will never get cast the first stone. 
Gipp hears tale of Notre Dame's famous legend 
Editor's note: 
Tbis is tbe seventh episode in Tbe Obser­ver's serial publication oftbe new Notre Damefootball story, "Tbe Gipper's Gbost." Chapter Six, Glimmers ofHope, continues 
from tbeprevious week as tbe lrlsb battle witb MSU is resolved. Tbe Gipper, rein· carnated as Dutcb Reagan, astoundedfans last week as tbe team's amazing new recruit. 
Glimmers of hope 
"Yeah, it's gotta be a bomb," came a reply. The Spartans certainly thought so. Their 
pass-prevent defense was well-deployed. Up in heaven, God drew a deep breath. The wind stopped. The American flag hung 
limply on the flagpole. 
Kneeling seven yards behind the line of scrimmage, Collins looked up at Reagan and called out a final reminder. 
"Remember what the coach said, Dutch. Concentrate! Approach. Impact. Follow· through!" 
"I'll remember. I'm ready." 
Collins fielded the snap and placed the ball on the tee in one continuous motion. Reagan stepped forward and kicked. 
The football soared heavenward, peaked 
and began its rapid descent. It just might be long enough. The ball hit the crossbar . . . . . and bounced over! The electronic scoreboard displayed the 
outcome. The clock read 0:00. Home 14. Visitors 14. Collins embraced Reagan. Notre Dame's losing streak had ended -in a tie. 
Gipper's legend 
J 
oe Kelly slept well Saturday night. He rose early, slipped on his bathrobe and slippers and tiptoed downstairs. He let Rusty, the family's golden retriever, out the front door. Rusty bounded to the end ofthe driveway, scooped up the Sunday paper in his teeth and galloped back inside. 
"Good boy, Rusty," Kelly said, trading a pair of Milk-bones for the South Bend 
Ill~ Wlpper-~ \:JOO~ 
"I'm on the letter 'G' already. Only two more to go," she said. She had been in­troduced to Dutch after the game and had told him she thought it was a shame the equipment manager hadn't found time to add his name to his road jersey. She would personally make sure that everyone in Notre Dame Stadium this Saturday knew that the blue jersey with the numeral '1' belonged to Dutch Reagan. 
"That's great, honey. Dutch will certainly appreciate it." Maureen asked the question that so many interviewers had asked him the day before. "Joe, where did you find that boy?" 
Kelly explained, "The credit really belongs to one of the. priests at Notre Dame. He wandered into my office last Sunday. He told me to go out and watch an intramural game. Dutch was playing for the Sorin Hall team. He was incredible!" 
"Have I met this priest?" "No, but you will. He's our new team chaplain. His name is Father Rock." 
"Well, next time I visit you in the ACC, I'm going to find this Father Rock and give him a great big kiss on behalfofthe Kellys." 
"You're a sweetheart, Maureen." 
"I know. Now go wake up the kids or we'll be late for church." 
"Yes, Coach. Right away, Coach," he said. Maureen called the plays at home. He called Rusty. "Rusty! Upstairs! Go get the kids out of bed." 
The dog accepted his new assignment with a joyful bark and raced up the stairway with Kelly on his tail. 
Han Collins was having a pleasant Sunday also. He barely made it to the 11 :00 high Mass as Sacred Heart Church. The chapel choir was just finishing the entrance song when he slid quietly into one of the back pews. 
Every few minutes, he sneaked a glance up at the choir loft. His girlfriend, Lauren Ken­nedy, sang in the choir. 
After Mass, he and Lauren enjoyed a leisurely lunch at the South Dining Hall. Later, he spent part of the afternoon playing frisbee with friends on the South Quad. The lush green lawns may have belonged to the groundskeepers on weekdays, but on \ 
But that night so was Collins, even though by his own admission he had probably seen it seven times before. 
After the show, Hart and Dutch decided to grab something to eat at the campus snack shop, the Huddle. Hart ordered for both: Huddle-burgers with cheese, French fries and Coca-Cola Classic. 
They occupied an empty booth. When Dutch sipped his Coke, he thought to him· 

self, Now, this is the real thing. I'm glad at least some things never change around here! 
Durch was quite pleased with the film portrayal of himself. He couldn't resist the opportunity to bask a little longer in his own glory. "That George Gipp was sure some football player, wasn't he? I'll bet Ronald Reagan won an Academy Award for his performance." 
Collins said, "Well, Ronald Reagan may deserve one for some ofhis more recent performances, but in 1940 the Oscar for best actor went toJimmy Stewart for "The Philadelphia Story." In addition to being a movie buff, Collins had won Sorin Hall's Trivial Pursuit championship last semester. 
"I'm impressed, Mr. Trivia Expert. Tell me more about this Gipp fellow." "Well, it's pretty much like it was in the film, although you know how Hollywood 

vigil outside St. Joseph's Hospital, praying for 
his recovery. But he died · only two weeks 
after he was named an All American. 
"That was in December, 1920. The legend 

was born several years later, in 1928­
Rockne's worst season. 
"Notre Dame had lost two games early in the season and would lose two more before it ended. But first they had to meet an un­defeated Army team. 
"There were 90,000 people on hand at Yankee Stadium for this game· one ofthe largest crowds ever to watch a sporting event in New York City. Very few felt the Irish had a chance ofwinning. 
"Now, in the movie Rockne makes his great speech at halftime, but that's pure Hollywood. Apparently, the scriptwriter thought it would be more dramatic to have the Irish trailing at halftime." 
"So, what actually happened?" Dutch asked. 
Collins said, "Rockne really told the story before the game. The actual words probably varied a bit, but essentially he said what was presented in the film." Collins knew the speech by heart; he had memorized it as an exercise for his high school public speaking course. He imitated Pat O'Brien's rendition of Rockne's voice: 
"Well, boys. I haven't a thing to say. You played a great game this first half, all of you. I guess we just can't win 'em all. Boys, I'm going to tell you something I've kept to myselffor years. None ofyou here knew George Gipp. He was long before your time. But you all do know what his tradition stands for at Notre Dame. Well, the last thing he said to me was: 'Rock, sometime when the team is up against it, when things are wrong and the breaks are beating the boys, tell them to go in there with all they've got and win just one for the Gipper. I don't know where I'll be then, Rock,' he said. 'But I'll know about it, and I'll be happy.' That's all, boys." 
"What a great speech," Dutch said. 

"It worked. Supposedly there wasn't a dry eye in the locker room. Even the mayor of New York, who was there in the locker room at the time, had tears in his eyes. It was a scoreless tie at the half. In the third quarter Army scored a touchdown, but missed the extra point. The Irish finally scored when 
weekends they were the property ofthe sometimes takes license with actual histori­Jack Chevigny, one of Notre Dame's Chapter Seven ~ students, unless the automatic sprinklers cal details. Gipp played for Knute Rockne, halfbacks, vaulted into the end zone for a were turned on. and most experts agree he was Notre Dame's touchdown. When he jumped back on his 
In the evening, he let Dutch persuade· him greatest player. He was about your size, feet, he threw the ball in the air and said, Tribune. He noticed that the Tribune had to attend the annual screening of the Warner Dutch, six foot, 180 pounds. · 'That was one for the Gipper!' He really said returned to its old practice of featuring a Bros. motion picture "Knute Rockne -All "Anyway, during his final season he con­it!" . 
full-color game photo on the front page. American" at the Knights ofColumbus Hall. tracted a strep throat infection. That was To be continued ... Tucking the paper under his arm, he walked The movie starred Pat O'Brien as Knute pretty serious in those days, medical care not From "The Glppcr's Ghoet." copYJilht 1985 by llobnl Qual<rn­into the kitchen. His wife, Maureen, had been Rockne and Ronald Reagan as George Gipp. 
being up to modern standards. I heard buah. Publishc:d by O'COIUIOI' Publ.W!ill(l Co. ll.rpnnted by permt. up for an hour. She was sewing. Dutch had been strangely eager to see it. somewhere that the entire student body kept olon. 
The Observer Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 15 
Tht' Ohst'rl't'r :\out· Damt: otfo-,;t:. lm. arnl on tht· thmJ floor of l.al-orrum· Studt:nt <xnlt"r. a<.Tt:pl~ ~.:la!>Mfkd ad\·t:rll~inR from <Jam unt1l ·• p m .. \1onda~ through 1-·nda~ Tht' Ohst'n't'r Saint \Ia~··., offin·. ltKatt·d on tht: th1rd floor of tfaggar <.ollt:gt· Ct·ntt:r. au:c:pl!> da.,!oifkd!> from ll :\0 p m until :\ p m . \1on· dav though Frida\ lkadhm.· for nt·xt·da\ tla.,.,lfit:th i., -\ p m .\II da!>.,lfkd!o mu.,t lx· prt:paltlt·ltht:r tn pt:r.,on or h\ mall <.hargt: • ., Io n·nh pt:r fin: <.·harat


Classifieds 
Ct:r., ·r dn 

LOST-ONE GOLD LOOP EARRING NEED 3 GAa FOR NAVY CALL JOHN F.O.B.I.S. FEST IS COMING!!! F.O.B.I.S. OAR HOUSE: COlD BEER & LIOUOR. NOVENA TO ST. JUOE ABOUT 6 WEEKS AGO SOMEWHERE 3323 FEST IS COMING!!! F.O.B.I.S. FEST IS CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 HOLY ST. JUDE. APOSTLE AND MAR· 
BETWEEN PANGBORN AND REGINA. COMING!!! F.O.B.I.S. FEST IS COM­BlOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. TYR, GREAT IN VIRTUE AND RICH IN IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT NEED 4 MISS. GA'S CALL ROD AT 272· 
NOTICES 
ING!!! MIRACLfS, NEAR KINSMAN OF JESUS PREGNANT? CHRIST, FAITHFUL INTERCESSOR OF 
...................................... ·········· 284-4006. 4504 
NEED HELP? ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR SPECIAL
TYPING AVAILA8LE THE SOCIAL LIFE GOT YOU DOWN? Call234-0363. 24-hr. hoCiine. counltlling PATRONAGE IN TIME OF NEED. TO
287-4062 THEN TAKE A WALK ON THE WILD &free pt'egnancy teatl. YOU I HAVE RECOURSE FROM THE RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE 
Desperately NEED NAVY 11X-3 GA'a. 4 SIDE! THE PET STORE IS COMING WOIIEN'I CARE CENTER DEPTH OF MY HEART AND HUMBlY
........................................ 
OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR
TYPING CALL CHIIttS 2M-8tt7 Stud. Call G-ll288-4650 or Suean TOMORROW!!! BEG TO WHOM GOD HAS GIVEN CITY/COLLEGATE RENTALS ]2773. GREAT POWER TO COME TO MY AS­
INC.,2597661 
SISTANCE. HELP ME IN MY PRESENT 

BUSINESS EXPRESS. INC. URGENT PETITION. IN RETURN I
WordproceM~ng and typing 
THINK STY! 
EARN $$$ FOR ALL THOSE BOOKS PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR NAME
272-8827 I NEED 1 NAVY STUDENT TICKET ! 
THINK STY! 
1, or 2 ROOMMATES needed lor Turtle YOU DIDN'T READ!! PANDORA'S WILL KNOWN AND CALL YOU TO BE
CALL2460 THINK STY! 
Crtltlk Townhou111. Great townhouae, BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M-F 11-4. OR INVOKED. SAY: 3 OUR FATHERS. 3 VtlfY reasonable. Cal277-2364 WE CAN HELP YOU FIND A USED HAIL MARYS, & 3 GLORIAS FOR 9
TYPING NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CALL 284·5523 BOOK FOR A CLASS. WE'RE OPEN M­DAYS. PUBLICATION MUST BE277-41045 F 1 Hi. SAT&SUN 10.5 PANDORA'S IS PROMISED. THIS NOVENA HASFREE PICKUP a DEUVERY 
·-·· ...... ...... .... .................. ············· HALLOWEEN PARTY!! 
OPPOSITE CORBY'S ) 937 SOUTH NEVER BEEN KNOWN TO FAIL. 
3 BR HOME HAS ROOM FOR 1 non­PENN STATE TIX NEEDED HALLOWEEN PARTY!! 
BEND AVE. lmoking GRAD CAU.1504 McCal'ldiMI HaM STUDENT.$130/UTIL.232-8327 Friday Nov .1 
9-1:30 $1 at door
TYPING term.,..,_.., ~-.lett.. , 
CAMPUS VIEW APTS THE !tOllS A VERY HAPPY BIRTHDAY WISH TO
~c:atl-. l'lltel;
..•••0....... 
1 MALE ROOMMATE NEEDED ARE BACK JOHN KENNEDY (ALIAS JFK) ... HERE·s
pickup a dellv.-y on cempu... ORANGE .OWL! 
CAL1.272-3840 SATURDAY NOV. 2 8:00PM TO A HAPPY ONE!! LET'S
ev81...,... c:.ll c.thw lc:hullz bet--. ORANGE .OWLI WUhington Hal CELEBRATE!!
5-10 p.m. 277·5134. ORANGE BOWL acouta need TICKETS 2$ at Rock Du Lac 
MIIII-PPI GA't! Call MM!at 1515 
SMC Ride Board take a look in the Heggar HELP WANTED 
Game Room! 
$60.00 PER HUNDRED PAID for pt'oc:Maing mail at home! lnfOITTIIItion. I NEED 2 MISS GA'S OR STUDENT AE~CS AERa.ICSIII
WANTED Plgllanlal
aend lell-addruaed. lllmped envelope. TlX'S. PLEASE CALL BILL· 3467 HALLOWEEN COSTUME PARTY Come join in the fun Allocal811, Boll 95. Rotelle. N-JwMy Friday night Pangborn Social Space, Sunday-Thul'lday 10:00pm 
07203 I NEED 5 (YEB, 5) STUDENT TIX FOR 9:30-1:30. at Knights of Columbut. 
•881811PPll! CALL SUSAN 2875. Admiuion $1. Proceedl go" to United Any queetiona cal Karen at 2855 Trevtl Field Opponu,..,. Cllln "Their Playing Our Song"' Way. See ya thtlfe! 
$1~ WEEKLY/UP IIAIUNG CIR­
V8luallle ............. ..... Comain coetume for a howling good time! 
Nov. 38pm CULARS! NO OUOTM! .NCDIELY 
-"'"' JtiCIMY. c:..pue O"Laughtin Auditorium 
INTir.DTED llltUaH SILF· 
repriMntMIVe nMideciiRIItii ••IIJW 
$5 Students and Feculty ADDRESSeD ENVELOPE: 8UCCEU, 
IPfi"' lnM trtp to Florida. c.l .,...
PO IIOX 470CEG, WOOOSTOCK, IL FOil UU: FOUR (4) NAVY ITUDBfT $10 Gentlfal Admiuion NOV. 2: THE ONLY B'DAY THAT MAT­
......,... 811~282-4221.
10018. 11CU1S. WOULD UU TO ,...... SAD to see you could make it! You madeit TERS!! HAVE A GREAT ONE, PAT. FOR OU-U'8 F Nllll 1 htlfe and thought you'd lind the chipmunk HAVE 81'\IDBIT 11X TO ALL ~ but it's not that euy. Nodemandl met. noQA_. CALL177·1171-munk. No munk, no IIIli. No IIIli, no T·E·
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16.~ 
D. ligned. the kidnapper~ GUESS WHO'S GONNA BE 20 ON SUN·EXPDIT TYPING SERVICE. CALL. $59,230/YR. NOW HIRING. CALL 805­
........... DAY? HINT 1: AKA GOOSENECK OR 
..... COKER, 211-7001. 667-«XXl EXT. R·9634 FOR CURRENT 
................................................................. 
SLUTSKY. HINT 2: 221 WALSH. HINT 3: FEDERAL LIST. 

P81118TAftnx • e LAST SEEN SMILING UNDER A CUTE
AIJunlon 
CM.L1.. THE ..A:PREPARA110N & PLAN­
Clo ....WIIdl BlOND MALE. YES. ITS KAREN
1ntt11'eated in 
NING VUONO!!! AND WE ALL KNOW HOWComminee POiitiona Dean Waddick Speaks

----·····---------
THIRSTY SHE IS THIS WEEKEND!! HB­and Chairman Pa.tiona KEYBOARD PLAYER NEEDED 10 com­
ORANGaiiOWL.I 7:30 122 Haya Heely Auditorium -LUV, JULES. MICHELE, ANNIE, MARY
Mull meet at plete rock band. Cal Fritz 3413 
ORANGaiiOWI.I Monday,Nov.4 1985 &BOBSUttle Theeter 
ORANGE BOWL IICOU1I need ~ COUPANY SEEKS MBA STU·
Lafortuna 
DENTwlthi,....in!Khnical nwtteling.
-·IIPPIGA'a!Ce11Merkal1515
On Mon. Nov. 4th 
..,_ twve beckground in engineering or 
at7 Pll. 
FOR SALE .ano..and atrong communication akilt. Flldlle houri. 12 I* week. Wll delign AI Juniore MARIJO,
I NEED 2 MISS GA'S OR STUDENT 
and condUCt nwttet reaearch for ,_ lnttlfeeted Today ie your birthday SO DO IT UPTIX'S. PLEASE CALL BILL· 3487 
PfOClJda in computtlf ~e and In Working for RIGHT!!
LSU QA'a AVAILAIN.EI LSU QA'e mic:roelec1rolliC8. Send reaume to Witm.. JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND MUST We'M celebrate &party way into the night. 
AVAILA81 Ell I have OYtlf '-ly LSU I NEED 5 (YES, 5) STUDENT TIX FOR 
Syat~. Inc., 300 N. Michigan, Suite MEET Nothing to ---don't worry, don't fret 
LOST/FOUND 
GA ticketa for eale to anyone who ..,... MISSISSIPPI!! CALL SUSAN 112875. 
414, South Bend, IN 46601 IION.NOV4 With Lori'a boutique you'l be al Ht.
them. They ar.e gr•t ....but-going 
AT7PII Stacy willpin tunes to etan off the day, fall!' If you need any of th-tickela cal IN LITTLE THEATER And Cindy wil have a drink then teed ue3828 IOITietime 10011. Any tickeq that 
Need 2 Mill. GA't. Nick3662 
LAFORTUNE on our way.
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. aren't bought htlftl at NO are to be aold to 
SENIOR WITH COMPUTER SCIENCE Kathy' a EE wil be thrown in the trMh.
REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CON­a hoerd of Rabid TIGER Fana!! 
BACKGROUND needed by local com­Even Gabrielle wil leave Flanner to join in TACT ALICE 287-7657. 
pany for part time and eventu81 lui time our bah. 
FOR SALE: FOUR (4) NAVY STUDENT poeition, for "C"' languege ~e Peggy'aeure ready to atay out til it'elight,THEB085
FOR SALE • 6 Navy GAl. CaiJMn 284-11CU1S. WOULD UKI TO TMDI development uling llal..of·the-art Maybe even K.B. will come elong for the 
ARE BACK

4360. FOR OLE -CIA'S IF PIDIII.LI programming toola on IBM PC/AT. Mini­nigll.
FOUND: SMALl BLACK PURSE WITH BE THERE
NO 1.0. BUT LOTSA DOLLARS. FOUND HAVI STUDENT 11X TO ALL HOllE mum ol 16 houri Pill' wtltlk including Finally, "The Quad" wil add a laugh or
SATURDAY NIGHT 8:00PM

ONOCT.16ATPARTYATCORNEROF FOR SALE AKC SHIH-TZU 3 MO. OLD CIAMD. CAUI77·7170AFTMI P.M. Saturdaya. December graduate two, pt'eferred. Send reaume to Wilmee Sya­So get ready, get MI. and HAPPY
NAVARRE AND ST. LOUIS. CALl TEO MALE BLACK WITH WHITE AT 2383 TO IDENTIFY. MARKINGS. CALL288·7734 EVE. HAS. leml. Inc.• 300 N. Michigan, Suite 414, ..RTHDAY TO YOU II 
South Bend, IN 46601 
1 STUDENT NAVY TICKET $10. 272­8080 
THE BOBS "Cleverly fiiCI'Nte the 1yntho-pop muaic TO WHO EVER TOOK MY BACKPACK­DOES YOUR DAD COMPLAIN ABOUT Need to ... re~Mring by imitatii"'Q
.-on 1001b811 Hungry?-Cal YELLOW SUBMARINE II 
FMHION VICTIIISIII

I do not c=-e how you happened to get it, COLLEGE COSTS? DOES HE KNOW tlc:MII. Cal28.5335. instrumentl With the 1oum:U of their
272-HIKE. Delivery houri: Spm·12pm
but atleell have the decency to return my HE CAN INVEST IN A SO. BEND Spm-2am voic•." A•uux A..,. BALL
Monday·Thul'lday; Friday; 
Nov. 15, 11Nl5

NOTES. My beckpac:k wae deft blue and DUPLEX AND WRITE OFF YOUR 3pm-1 am Saturday; and 4pm-1 Opm Sun­S4Preeale~ed during lunch t0/16 at eouth HOUSING EXPENSE? WOULD YOU TWO SETS OF 4 NAVY GAl FOR SALE day. 
$5 at the door

clning ~. It contained a1 o1 my notee lor BELIEVE HE CAN BUY ONE HERE FOR JIM 8.: 3 more daya. Happy Birthday'
WILL TAKE BEST OFFER CALL J.G. HIRiry, Phytice, Emil, and Englilh. Ita11o $16,500? TEU. HIM TO CALL JOYCE Soupy's ~toSouth Bend. Have F-U­
3526 
conl8ined a Radio Shadl calculator and a KEVORKIAN, CRESSY & EVERETT N! Love yaloll. CMCS WAIT -Don't buy that Chrillmae g~lt yet.
'"booM. My name and number are on REAL TORS, 232·1193 OR 233-6141. 
NAVY&LSU GA'S FOR SALE Rellectiona In The Dome ia coming from 
~erything In my bllckpaek, 10 it lhould 
JOHNx1024 Junil* Prell. Watch for it. Amy, don't ~eten to Beth. I mltlht be yournot be difficult to find me. I would reilly type o1 guy, 10 why don't you give me a 
~e It If I could have my NOTES TOMBO: Good Luck Nelli Week! Nelli
NOTREDAMEFOO~PROGRAMS 
try?

bed!. If you have them pleue cal MIKE at Friday afternoon, your carTel. Send M
FOR SALE-Gr•t gilt idee for "81u~", I have 4 NAVY GAa for ..... Cal K~ln at
2380. No ~ooa liked. or collectore. 1884.
pw'ents 11132 thru 
2113. PanaMIIIc ...,_Ca11 1ttae
Over 200. Call Ken (219) 277..4342 
'IIIith hMdphonN 
MAXELL XU/ 90'1

2 NAVY GA'S FOR SALE CAU KIM 2240 WHY PAY RENT? Let methow you how 
Onlyl11.101 
Only 10 for $23

Found: women·• watch aaturday nite on you can alford to buy thie cute cape Cod, 
Rock duLac, lirat noor LaFortune 

.....~PE & Grace before tur· ......JWIIO'I cloee to campue. Beautiful hardwood noll 10 PE. cal Kerry ll4508 to identify. 10forS23 floorl, three bedrooms. 1453 RockneTICKETS Drive· $36,900. Cal today or come to an
Need I!Ud. ticket for NAVY. X3606. 
~ HouM on Sunday, November 3. 2· Need 4 GA't for MiU. Cal JaneII3690 CHICAGO CLU.I
Plua the 1ateet albume from ABC. Ruth. 
4:00 p.m. Kitty ROM, Cr-y a Evtlfen. LOST: gold heart·lhaped pinky nng with a CHICAGO CLU.I
Mr. Mllttlf, and more ... Only et Rock 
duuc Inc., 277·2666 or 2n-4213. tiny ruby in the centtlf. Great sentimen181 CHICAGO CLU.I
Firat noor LaFortuna
I NEED NAVY & ....QAa.272-GCMI ..................................... ·························· 
v81ue.llfound, pleueCIII Nancyat4294. 
The NO Chi~ Club wil be aponaoring a HE'S IIACKI SELl ME 2 GA'S & AS "pre-game get-together"' II 1 :30 in Green 
. PERSONALS 
TOM M. 18 GOOD LUCK THIS SEASON! 

MANY STD TKS FOR MISS. AS I NEED. Field. All Chicagoans from NO and SMC 
I STIU. MIGHT BRING THE POSTERS

THIS MIGHT BE YOUR JACKPOT! CALL Hoga Aren't The Only Thlnga Th8t lhould BE THERE. Cal Kathy at 2894 for 
LOST: My eunglaalee aomewhtlfe bel· TO THE HOCKEY GAME-16
NOW! STEVE 3318 ' Squ... l more info. 
ween green field and Grace hall alter the 
Whetever enchentl, elao guidN end
USC game. They are black, mirrored, and 
protectl. Pu.ionately C!MIIIHd by
have an aqua atripe aaoea the frame. 
enything we love -uilbNIJ, lirplenet,
They are VtlfY sentlmen181!!!! Call Jim at Heppw ..rthdey Mike Klrtdandll 
THIS ISN'T JUST ANY WEEKEND, ITS 4245. Thanq!! I kn-aomeone would SMC SNA AND NO PRE·MED SOCIETY 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'I. CALL DAVE, 272-idea-en evllenche offMfliC !lett-the 
3832. way eh..d, Ieveii rutea, /"MICIM, dil­THE 2nd WEEK ANNIVERSARY OF 
return them!! ·MASH BASH!· NOV. 1 AT HCC 5-7 pm An Amerlcen Werewolf In Lawle SHANNON MAUGHAN'S 22nd
•entl, beetl u• With itov• cham~, teen, 
WEAR YOUR SCRUB SHIRTSI
DESPERATELY SEEKING...Navy GA'I doubtl. ~thout the powtt of the BIRTHDAY!!! JUST THINK. . .IN 8 MORE or etudent tickets. PIMN cal Char at love ..• YEARS YOU'LL BE 30. 5 AFTER THAT 2m. AND YOU'U BE MIDOLEAGEO...THEN
LOST:a black SONY DISKMAN. La.t lalt 
HAPPY 211th ANNIVEMNtY,11011 & 
Beware the rivtlf, lade ... AGAIN, WHO'S TO SAY YOU'U Monday on the United Limo Van. Picked DADI 
SURVIVE THIS WEEKEND. (BETTER 

up bya girt on the van with me. She ~vee in Hope you enjoy your weekend htlfe at HAPPY.UAY DRINK LOTS OF MILK.) HAPPY
Breen-Philipa. Pleue return to loll and NEED 4 GA'S FOR NAVY OR LSU N.D. 
TO THE ONLY D.J. I LOVE YOU BELATED 8-DAY SHA·NA·NA! XO. 

found or me at Jeff 4609 GAME. CALL 312-951-4167 OR 312-We both love you!!! 
N.M. 
FRED AND THE ADDABEADS 

929-9411 AND ASK FOR JOHN. Randy and Kelly
Poet·Greduete Service 
.................................................................
COUNHUNG AAOCIATE 
PROGRAM LOST N.D 10 HOLDER WITH 10, IN­NAVY QAa FOR ULE.2J2·14M Women'l C.. Centtlf THANK YOU TWICE, ST. JUDE THE ONLY DOMER THAT MATTERS CILL • IlL&.· TESS· JOE: SCITUATE. DIANA DRIVER'S LICENSE AND LOTS IF YOU ARE CONCERNED MOUT IS HAVING THE OLD MAN, CHEDIS, DONS, OF STUFF ESSENTIAL TO MY LIFE!!! IF WOMEN WHO ARE EXPERIENCING A THE ONLY BIRTHDAY THAT MATIERS PICADILLY FILLY, .a.TON, PATTY, YOU FIND THIS PLEASE PLEASE ~· THE HAPPY BIRTHDAY PAT MURPHY! a..MKD, YICTOIIAN IIOUQUET,
Need 3 etudent Miu. till Call Miaay 284· PREGNANCY, 
1000 KAZOOS! 1000 KAZOOS! THE 5424
PLEASE CALl MARY TIMM (the name WOMEN'S CARE CENTER HM A SUUN, JOHN, WOI.LA8TON,
SA8 WIU. BE DISTRIBUTING 3000 
on a1 my atuff) AT 272..()811 OR LEAVE PRC)(IAY THAT MAY H OF INTDI­LOVE, CHAILIES, ...YOU.
KAZOOS TO YOU ASSOLUTEL Y fREE'
AT THE ARCHITECTURE OFFICE. HT TO YOU. WE ARE OPPORD TO SOUIDBABY
I AM DESPERATE FOR NAVY TICKETS' WHEN? AT THE STUDENT GATES OF 
MORTION AND WANT TO HI!LP THE
PLEASE CALl JULIE 284-4317 THE STADIUM BEFORE THIS SATUR­
WOMAN FACING A PRC*.EM PMQ. HAPPY B-OA Y 2 U HAPPENIN' HOUSE FRIDAY, 11/1 -it'eDAY"S NAVY va. N.D. GAME. IT'S AB­
NANCY WITH UFE-UYINQ AL· HAPPY B-OAY 2 U 
LOST: W811et w/ 1.0 -maroon(red), SOLUTEL Y IRRESISTIBlE!!! free and it'1 HAPPENIN'! 
TERNA11Vd .yOFFERING HER THE HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEAR MIKEY velcro, in LaFortuna n-Bii-Changing NEED A NAVY GA or Student for my BIG 
LOVE AND IUPPORT SHE IIIAY NEED HAPPY 8-DAY 2 U 
Machine on Wed. around 4 p.m. Pr­little BAOTHER.John 277-1296. 
TO CAMY HER CHIU) TO TINI. AND WE LOVE YOU!! KIM, FIDEY, KERR contact Eric at x4009. 
WE NEED YOUR HELP! THE COU.-EL· GAY? NOVICE CREW: Beet olluck in Mld'ligarl. lNG AUOCIATI PltOCIRAII IS OF· LU.AN? 
YOU CAN DO IT!! -Novice Coec:tiM I NEE03NAVYGA'S. WlU.PAY$. CALL FEltED TO QlllADUATES INTIERESTID .., LONELY? 
................................................................ 
HEY ~NUTHEAD

Found in Enginetlfing Wbrary: CUio CHRIS AT 3349. IN COUNSIUNQ OR 80CIAL WORK, WHY? AND A8LE TO WORK AT THE DO YOUMELF A FAVOR ANO Thankllor bringing the good ,_torne 808 AND MIKE: Thankleo mud'! for the
Scientific Calculator Call1 088 
HELP! I need WOllEN'S CARE CENTIR ON A FULL· CONTACT GAYS & l~ANS AT while I wae contemplating Death and rOMt, notee. and belt of al the picture! 2PennStMetill TIMI. VOLUNTEER • .._FOR IIORE ND/SIIC, PO IIOX 114, NOTRI DAME, Dying. Dinner wae wonderful, too! You're You guya are out ol control! Can't ttll you FOUND: ITUDENT FOOT8ALL call Robll2106 INFDMIAnON, CALL THE CENTIR IN 4U141 FOR CONFIDENTIAL IN­the grMtest roomie around!!!!!! Love Ya, how much it meant we·•-you SOON! 
FORMATION. We miu you too. ­
11CKET IIOOKLET. CAU. 3427. AT2J4-0MI. Sooeen Gr~~tch and Sue 

' 
The Observer 
Sports Briefs· 
.The ND volleyball team will travel to DePaul Uni­versity this Sunday to play the Blue Demons at 3 p.m. 
A pep rallywill be held Friday at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. Guest speakers will include members ofthe 1945 football team and Inside Linebacker Coach George Kelly.· The Observer 
SMC intramuraltennis tournament entrieswill be accepted at the Angela Athletic Facility until Friday. Both singles and doubles matches will be played. · Tbe Observer 
The ND basketball team will hold a scrimmage Saturday at 1 p.m. Free to the public, the scrimmage will be held in the ACC. · The Obseroer 
"WVFI sports will air coverage ofboth hockey and football this weekend. Pete Pranica and Vito Gagliardi will call Saturday's Notre Dame-Navy game, beginning at 2:50p.m.. joe Malvezzi will anchor coverage of the Irish hockey team beginning at 7:20 Friday night and 8:20 Saturday night. · The Observer 
' SMC aerobic classes will be held beginning Monday and running through to the end of the semester. Classes will meet from 10-10:55 p.m. Monday and Wednesday, and from 5-6 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday. 'The entry fee of S5 will be accepted at ~e Angela Athletic Facility. · The Observer 
A Red Cross water safety instructor course 
sponsored by NVA will hold an organization meetingon Monday at 7 
p.m. at Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. For more in· formation about the course call the NVA office.· Tbe Observer 
Off-Campus hockey -team will be meeting on Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Lounge. Anyone interested should attend. For more information call Ed Sullivan at 272-2454 or Tim Connors at 288-5484. 
An NVAweighttrainingworkshopwill be held Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Rockne Weight Room. Gary Weil, strength and conditioning coach, will be on hand to demonstrate proper techniques. For more information call the NVA office. · Tbe Observer 
Stepan Center court time is available upon re­quest. Applications should be taken to the Student Activities Office on the first floor ofLaFortune by Wednesday.· Tbe Observer 
NVA interhall basketball rosters must be sub­
mitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. There is a S25 entry fee for men's teams and a S20 entry fee for women's teams. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
NVA Grad and Club basketball rosters must 
be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. For more information call the NVA office. · The Observer 
NVA interhall hockey roste~ must be submitted 
to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. There is a team entry fee of S35 to be submitted with a roster. For more information call the NVA office. · The Observer 
NVA table tennis tournament registrations 
must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. The tournament is open to students, staff, and faculty, and will be single elimination. For more information call the NVA office. ·TheOb~erver 
NVA squash tournament registrations must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. The tourna· mentis open to students and faculty. For more information call the NVA office. • Tbe Observer 
An NVA team turkey shoot will be held Nov. 
18-19 from 4:30 ·6:00p.m. at the stadium ri.tle range by Gate 14. Teams must be comprised oftwo men and two women, and reserva· tions must be made by Nov. 14. To reserve a time or to get more information call the NVA office. • Tbe Observer 
Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 16 
Thanks to you... A itworks... • 


0 IRISH! 
for ALL OF US u.e.dWIII 
ly Your Spirit Fla 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIEND~. 
·Art• you OK fo dl'it•(·(· ·What:~ a few bt•('l-sl" 
-

•[)id ymt liW'(' foo IIIIlCh to fh·inkl" ·r111 JK'I_1(·r·tlyfi"e.· 
·An· 11o11 i11 a11y .~/l(lp(' to ti1·it'r'l" ~rt'(' 'u't'('/'.fc•lt lwft('/:· 
at the game· 
•J thi11k you'pr•luul a.f(•w too 11101/!f." 
"Ytm kiddi11, I can rl1-ive with '"!! ('!/('S clw·wrl: 
~}'(m't•e /i(l(/ trx1 llfll<'h to rlri11k, let Ill(' rll-ive." "Nobody drit•e.'i 111.11 em· but me." 


Go Irish Beat Midshipmen 
Wtye Q!olnnial lhmcakt Jfmtse , 


$1.00OFF~:·Ad' 
OUR SPECIALTY Ll It I 
OVEN-BAKED per;enoa 
APPLE PANCAKES 
LJ .S. 31 Nonh an Roseland (t\~rO'IS from the Holiday Inn) 272-7433 Open Tdays ,.,,....t6:00•m 



ENJOY 
''The Best Coffee In Town'' 
Taste ... 
The Big Difference 
Really Good 
Coffee Makes 
@ 
D 

• 
We proudly carry the largest selection of the World's Finest Superior Gourmet Coffee Beans 

• 
Whole or custom ground to your order 

• 
Always Fresh 

• 
100°/o Satisfaction Guaranteed-*Mail Order 

• 
Safe to drink, Water processed-Decaffeinated 

• 
Also delicious tea, coffee makers and filters 

• 
Gourmet Coffee and Tobacco Shop 


6502 Grape Road, University Center Mishawaka, Indiana (219) 2n-6887 
Behind Jeremiah Sweeney's 

J 
The Observer Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 17 
' 


• 
Last chance 
Senior tri-captain Chris Telk will lead tbe Notre Dame soccer team onto Alumni Field for tbe last time this weekend, as tbe Irish play host to Loyola 

'U\~S£ t>ltfC£S !!! 
~tt
0 _~c..P M=ell ".... TDK. 
(} ARTIST 
Pnil Collins 
Rot>erl-Pl~t 
Forei<6nev 
Pr'tnce 
Dire S1rirts 
%n.6 
John~uf[M MeUeV\Camp Tear<;. ~ fear~ 
XLuqo 
SA go
.• ALBUM II NO Jacket ~lit r'ed SnaK!n n &tined 
A6ent Provocateu..r A~W1d -tne vJortd Brothef'~ 'u1 l\rm3 Drean1 of ttte BlueTUY+t€S 
Scarecrow 
Sonts from the Big; Ch.l!Y' 
(Ill.) Friday at2 p.m. Notre Dame willbe loolltng to improve tts 6-11-4 record in tbe last contest oftbe 1985 season. 

dulac 

Rock. d11. l4lt 
$2.50 
2.25 
$7.00 
7.00 
7.00 
'7.00 
7.25 7. 25 
7.25 
7.00 
we A~ Sell rrrscount-Movie lie~ ~nd St~ 

, II :oo -4=oo M -f 

vs. Bookstore $2.99 
2..99 
$8.5.3 
8.53 
8.53 
8.~3 
7.53 
'1. 53 7.53 7.53 
2.39-5213 
WE WANT YOU 
f 


Kazoo
To 
1 

For the Gold & Blue 
The StladeatActivities Board will be passing oat 3,000 Kazoo• at the ND Vs. Navy game this Saturday, November 2nd. 

Basketball tix sell out; 200 frosh turned away 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
SportsEditor 
By 3:45 Thursday afternoon, all 
remaining student basketball tickets 
had been sold, and approximately 
180-200 freshmen who had wanted 
to buy tickets were unable to do so. 
This year's total student ticket sale of 4,327 is the largest number since the 1980-81 season, when 4,450 tickets went to students. Last year 3,047 season tickets were sold to students, which was up from 2,897 the previous year. 
Notre Dame Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski said Thursday his office had no pre-sale expectation of the 
_increase amounting to nearly 1,300 tickets. 
"Projection-wise, we had no way to see this coming based on sales of the last few years," said Bobinski. "Our position is that what happened is both good and bad. It's good that we sold out, while it's unfonunate that not everyone who wanted to get in will be able to." 
The applications ofthose students unable to purchase tickets were col­lected by the ticket office without money and will be held in the event of cancellations or checks which bounce. Any student tickets coming back into the ticket office for whatever reason will be sold on the basis of a lottery of those applica­tions collected. 

Bobinski said an alternate method of basketball ticket distribution will have to be worked out for next year. That method probably would not in­clude split packages, however, he added. The student season ticket last was split into packages 'A' and 'B' in the 1982-83 season, but the split package method is disliked by the ticket office because ofthe difficulty in making two equally competitive packages and the large disparity in sales between the two. 
Because every student ticket was sold, all Notre Dame basketball games this season now are techni­cally sold out. The rest ofthe seats in the ACC are sold on the basis of season tickets, as well. 
In past years, when some student season tickets remained, those seats were offered to the general public on a non-renewable season ticket basis up until the first game of the year. At that point, all season tickets were broken up and sold by the in­dividual game, and, nonetheless, al· most always resulting in a sellout. 

Umpire's call was bad, but Ueberroth backs it 

NEW YORK -The 'ninth-inning call that helped the Kansas City Royals win Game 6 of the World Series and eventually take baseball's championship was a bad one, Com­missioner Peter Ueberroth said Thursday. 
He also said he was considering a rule change which would allow the designated hitter to be used in every World Series, rather than every ot· her year, but only when the American League team is the home team. He said such a change could come as early as next year, when the DH is scheduled to be used in all World Series games. 
Ueberroth, discussing last week's controversial World Series call in an appeuance on NBC's "Donahue" show, defended American League umpire Don Denkinger as one of baseball's best and said human er­rors are "part ofthe game." 
The Royals won Game 6 by a score of 2-1 Saturday night and then beat the St. Louis Cardinals 11-0 on Sunday to win the World Series, four games to three. 

During the show, Ueberroth 
viewed videotapes in which 
Denkinger called Jorge Ona safe at 
first base after he hit a slow bouncer 
wide of the bag. The tapes showJack 
Clark fielding the ball and flipping it 
to pitcher Todd Worrell on the bag, 
apparently before Orta touched 
base. 
"I think he may have missed it. He may have been safe ... I think he missed the call," Ueberroth told talk· show host Phil Donahue. "In all of sports, sometimes there's a fumble and they reshow it and, sure enough, the guy fumbled before he was on the ground. And you watch basket­ball and somebody bumped some­body and the referee misses it." 
A spokesman at the commissioner's office, Chuck Adams, said he believed Ueberroth meant to say that Ona may have been out. 
Are you considering professional school? 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT 
Is Looking for Future Leaders in Public Affairs. 
Come Learn About Harvard's Two-Year Master's Program in Public Policy, Leading to either the Master in Public Policy or City and Regional Planning Degree. 
SALLY SA CHAR MEET WITH: Assistant to the Director Public Policy Program Wednesday, Nov. 6, 2-3, 3-4 grolJpS
DATE: CONTACT: YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE 
All Students, All Majors, All Years Welcome! joint Degree Programs Offered with Harvard's other Professional Schools. Generous Cross-Registration Prit•ileges witll other Scllools. 


The Observer Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 18 



Interhall soccer playoffs feature close games 
By TERRY LYNCH 
Sports Writer 
As if the regular season matchups were not enough to satisfy soccer fans on campus, interhall soccer started playoffs this past week. The action, as it has been for most ofthe 1985 season, was intense and close as the best teams ofthe 1985 season squared off. 

In one of the most surprising outcomes in the young playoff season, the undefeated Stanford Studs, winners of the East European League, downed the physical Flan­ner "A" squad, 1-0. Dave Stevenson scored the game's only goal in the {' first half for the Studs, and a
l,.. combined effort by goalkeepers Tim Baker and Shawn O'Grady recorded the shutout. "It was kind of rough out there today," commented Stanford cap­tainJim Byrne on Thursday's action. 

ND receives oral commitments from tWo top basketball players 

Notre Dame reportedly has  
received oral commitments from  
two high school basketball stars and  
is close to getting one from a third  
player.  
According to Mike Douchant of  
The Sporting News, Scott Paddock, a  
6-9 forward-center from Plantation,  
Fla, and TonyJackson, a 6-8 forward  
from Weston, Conn., have told Irish  
\.  coach Digger Phelps of their inten- 
I;  
j  Ballestros  
i  losesPGA  
l· i  standing 
I·  
\  
 
! \  PONTE VERDA, Fla ·Seve Balles­teros' membership in the PGA Tour  
has been revoked and the Spanish  
golfer will not be allowed to play in  
tour co-sponsored tournaments in  
the United States next year, Com­ 
missioner Deane Beman announced  
Thursday.  
Ballesteros, however, will remain  
n  eligible for the Masters, the U.S.  
I i.  Open and the PGA.  
r: j  Those tournaments, the American-based trio in golfs Grand Slam events, have their own rules in­ 
)  volving eligibility. They are not con­ 
):  sidered "co-sponsored events" by the tour, but rather are "approved  
events."  
Ballesteros, one of the world's  
leading golfers, has won two Masters  
titles and a pair of British Open  
championships.  
He also will be allowed to play in  
the USF&G classic in New Orleans  
March 20-23, in which he is the  
defending champion.  
The ruling, made by the tour  
Policy Board at a meeting in New  
York Tuesday, came as a result of  
Ballesteros' failure to play in the  
l;I  minimum of 1 5 tour events in 1985 required to retain membership.  
~ '  
Ballesteros, playing in the Por­ 
tugese Open in Almancil, Portugal,  
said he had known about the ruling,  
but declined comment. "I'll say  
something later," he added.  
He played in only nine American  
tournaments -including the Masters,  
PGA and U.S. open-this year. In that  
limited schedule he collected  
S206,638 and won the New Orleans  
tournament.  
The flamboyant Ballesteros first  
became eligible for tour member­ 
ship after winning the 1978 Greater  
Greensboro Open.  
JAMES D. DETTLING 


"The wind was tough, and I don't think either team was playing their best game. We played good enough to win, so that's all that matters." 
The Studs' defense also featured some outstanding play by Tom Biafore and Bill Farrell. 
The Stanford victory took on added meaning for the Studs, who established some much-needed credibility by defeating an opponent in the stronger West European League. The Studs, who had rambled virtually unapposed through the East European League, now can be sure oftheir playoff status. 
The Holy Cross Hogs also kept their undefeated status with a 3-2 overtime playoff victory over Dillon I in a wild game on WedneSday. With the Hogs missing two of their start­ing defenders in interhall soccer's second-ranked defense, it was center forward Bill Young who picked up the slack for Holy Cross, 

DOMESTIC AND IMPORTED WINES. BEERS. LIC.UORS 

CallKegs ForAvailable 
Specialsironwood liquors 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 
12191272·7144 
Class of'61 
THE SOUND MASTER 
MUSIC YOU WANT TO HEAR! .----Over 1500 Watts Ftlrties For ~..._--Total Fbwer Any Occasion---' OWNER GARY VINCENT 
MOBILE D.J. &LIGHTING 674-0035 
' 

scoring two goals and chipping in with an assist. 
Dillon I jumped out to an early lead, but Young put Holy Cross back on top with his two goals. Dillon squandered a later chance to even the score on a penalty kick, when Holy Cross keeper Keith Terreri proved equal to the challenge. 
Dillon, however, was not about to roll over and die after that episode, and proved it by tying the game with a little over three minutes left in regulation play. 
In the first five-minute overtime period, Holy Cross once again took the lead when Jim Conway netted the game-winner on a crossing pass from Bill Young. The Hogs, now sporting a 6-0 record, couldgo far in the playoffs as evidenced by their exceptional play all season and this week's playoff win, which showed that the Hogs are a deep and talented team. 
St. Ed's was the third team to come out victorious in this week's action, as it defeated a very stubborn Howard team in a shootout, 2-1. 
Midway through the first half, Howard's Matt Buckley put his team on top with a penalty kick. Five minutes later, St. Ed's blew a chance to tie the game before halftime on a penalty kick, and the score remained 1-0 for Howard until the middle of the second half. Tim Tammon provided the firepower, and the score was even at one goal apiece. 
The two overtime periods did little to solve anything in this fierce 
ObserverNews 
needs your help 
The Observer news department is now accepting applications for the position of Ae•latant New• Editor. Applicants should submit a brief resume and application to Dan McCullough or Frank Lipo by 5 
p.m. Friday. This is a paid position requiring one night's work per week. 

u¢EH fll_j'llfo/ 6J tM aJI! 
Invites you to preview this year's 
fascinating collection ofimaginative Christmas Gifts, Sunday, November 
3rd, 1985. Noon till Five. 
Music -Refreshments -Friends 
514 Lincolnway East, Mishawaka Phone: 219 255-9191 

• 
with love, From London 
match, so in the end it came down to a shootout. St. Ed's capitalized on its first three chances, with Dave Warth providing the final blow. Howard could m'!-nage only one goal, and the shootout ended at a 3-1 advantage for St. Ed's. 
St. Ed's atoned for its late-season collapse against Grace "A" with the victory over Howard, and now can look forward to the playoffs with some confidence. The game, which was a result of a postponement, es­tablished St. Ed's and Grace "A" as co-champions of the South American League. 

tions to play for Notre Dame next season. 
Another forward, 6-8 Keith Robin­son from Buffalo, N.Y., also is close to committing to the Irish, Douc­hant reported. 
Notre Dame officials refused to confirm or deny the report. 
Robinson and Paddock both were named in The Sporting News' preseason listing of the top 75 high school seniors. Robinson was 
-
ranked as the 27th best player in the nation, while Paddockwas tabbed as the 46th best. 
Street & Smith listed Robinson and Paddock as high honorable men­tions on its preseason high school all-America team. 
All three players will have an op­portunity to sign the national letter­of-intent and make public their intentions on Nov. 13, when the first signing date rolls around. 

The Observer Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 19 



Saint Mary's soccer team loses one, will end season at home Saturday 

By CHRISTINE FORTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team traveled to Marion, Ind., for its penultimate match of the season on Wednesday. The Belles' enthusiastic effort was not enough, however, to 
~ Obecn-a/Paul Pallotnl<y 
bring home a win, as the Belles fell to
' Stacey Snyder and the rest ofthe Saint Mary's soccer team fell to 
Marion College, 15-8, 15-7, 15-8. 
4-9 on the season with a loss at Hope College last Wednesday. 
"Marion is a strong and tall team," 
Andrea LaFreniere ba." details of that game and a word abo~t 
commented Saint Mary's Head
Saturday's home game in_her story at right. 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's soccer team dropped its record to 4-9 Wednes­day in Holland, Mich., losing to the Hope College Women's Soccer Club, 2-1. 
Senior Sue Schierl scored the only goal for the Belles, who, according to Head Coach john Akers, played as good a game as they've played all year, despite the loss. 
"I think that we played very well as a team," he said. "We dominated the ~e. and we had four times as 

Belles volleyball falls to Marion 
• 

1 I 
I I I I I 
RESTAURANT. LOUNGE 
10331.AKE STREET 
NILES, MICHIGAN 616/683-7474 
a Notre Dame9 SaintMary's Tradition for over30 years. 

JVSTASKANYONEI 
I 
._Oiiii;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii• L 
many shots as they did. Unfor­tunately we weren't able to get the ball in the net." 
Weaknesses in the Belles' defense allowed the Hope team to score its. two goals. Akers remarked that defensive problems have plagued Saint Mary's in earlier games. 
"There have been few really good goals scored against us this season," Ake.rs said. "It's mostly small break­downs in our defense that allow the other teams to get goals we shouldn't be giving them." 
The Belles traveled to Kalamazoo, Mich., on Oct. I 7, where they defeated the Nazareth College Women's Soccer Club, 6-0. 

Schierl put in three shots for the Belles, while sophomore Karen Chandler, senior Katie Boldt and junior Ann Nora Ehret each con­tributed one goal. 
The Belles end their regular season Saturday, when they play host to the Loyola (Chicago) Women's Soccer Club at Angela Field. The game, which is scheduled for noon, should be completed before the kickoff of the Notre Dame-Navy football game. 
Coach Mary Jo Lambert. "And they play at a fast tempo. We adjusted to their particular way of play, but our pa..~ing, setting, and hitting was not consistent." 
Nevertheless, there were "moments of brilliance," according to Lambert, when everything went right and the Belles held their own. There were a lot of side outs during the match and stall situations when the score remained static for up to 


52929(J.8. 31 North o....,. ......................... 
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizzafor Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizza for Small Pizza Price (Delivery Orders Only) After Spm on Fri.-Sat. Only (Limited Delivery Area) 
277-5880 Offer expires Nov.ll 
___________---______________.J 

Here ForThe Game • • • 

The Weekend • • • 
The Day? 
RunningShortofcash? 
Ifyou have a CIRRUS-linked bankcard, you don't have a problem! 1stSource Bank 
says, "Welcome," and invites you to any of our 17 conveniently located Resource 
Centers, where you can get the cashyou need! Three are located within a mile and a 
halfof the Notre Dame campus: . 
1. 
Roseland-52990 U.S. 31 N. at Cleveland 

2. 
St. Mary's College-Haggar College Center 

3. 
Maple Lane-2230 So. Bend Ave. at Ironwood 


Resource and CIRRUS ... long on conveniencewh~nyou're short on cash! ~.source CIRRUS 
-.Bank 
-FDIC.. 
I 
II 
I I 1 
I 

10 rotations. Therefore, Lambert said she does not feel that the score is indicative of her team's ability. 
"Mary Reidy made nine kills and had a very good offensive game," said Lambert. "All the girls are playing better." 
The Belles will go on the road to play their last game ofthe season on Tuesday when they meet Franklin College in Franklin, Ind. 
Evert Lloyd serves way to victory 
AModated PreM 
WILLIAMSBURG, Va. · Chris Evert 
Uoyd used pinpoint serving to 
defeat easily Britain's Jo Durie, 6-2, 
6-3, Thursday night in the opening 
match of the 57th Wightman Cup. 
American Kathy Rinaldi defeated 
Anne Hobbs, 7-5, 7-5, in the second 
and final match ofthe day. 
The Americans have won the last six meetings in the annual women's competition with England and lead the series 46-10. With a 2-0 lead in this year's seven-match event, the 
U.S. needs to win only two more matches for the title. 
Durie won the first game of the first set, but Uoyd, ranked No. 1 in the world, roared back to win the next five games. The final game went to deuce five times before Uoyd won to take the set. 
Uoyd, who has won 26 straight Wightman Cup matches without a loss, took control early in the second set by winning the first two games. Durie, ranked 29th in the world, fought back to 3-2 before Uoyd won games six and seven to put the set and match out of reach. 
Uoyd was successful on 66 per· cent of her first serves in the opening set and 87 percent in the second set. 

100 Center, lishawab 256-1248 
50's & 60's Music 

OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK AT 7 P.M. 


The Observer Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 20 


Flag football 'second season' •• 
ACAP : 

ADULT CHILDREN OF ALCOHOLIC PARENTS 
•


begins with Sunday's games •• •• • 
:Mondays....... 5:30-6:30 pm 
By FRANK HUEMMER The other game will feature "Nobody expected us to do as • Counseling &Psycho!og!Col Serv1ces Center •• 
Sports Writer "Pasquerilla Warfare" as Pasquerilla well as we did," said P.E. coach Dave East will shoot to capture Haimes. "We have a really explosive : Room 316 • The "second season" of women's Pasquerilla West. This explosive offense, and this week our team has • •
•

• Does someone significant to you have a drinking
interhall flag football begins Sunday confrontation will start Sunday at been practicing hard. We will be 
• problem? Does it affect you? Maybe we can help. • 
as four teams will battle it out for the 2:30p.m. on Cartier. ready for anyone in the playoffs." 
• 

right to the interhall crown. In the first meeting this season, • Call 239-5085 •
P.E.'s explosive offense is led by
Heading the . list of Final Four P.E. handily defeated P.W., 31-14. 
quarterback Colleen Donnelly and
Farley Hall will have its perfect
teams is defending champion Farley wide receiver Regi Richter. RunningHall, which is the only undefeated record on the line as it tries to repeat backs Annie Schrenk and Eliseteam competing-in the playoffs. It as interhall champion. The team is Armstrong help balance the of­will take on the only South Quad led by quarterback Marilu Almeida, fensive attack. Meanwhile, middlerepresentative, Lyons Hall, which who runs the team with precision. 
linebacker Carie Hand anchors thefinished the season at 4-3. "The key to the game will be ifwe defense.
In the first meetingbetween these can run against Lyons. If that hap­two teams this season, Farley pens, we will be in good shape," said 
"The key to the game for both squeaked by Lyons, 14-12. This Farley coach Pete Janicki. "We are a 
teams should be stopping the big second matchup will take place Sun­lot better team than we were at the 
play," said Haimes. " Our defense is day at 1:30 p.m. on Canier Field. beginning ofthe season." 
really psyched for the challenge.''Meanwhile, Lyons Hall comes into the game on a two-game winning The final team in the playoffs is Pasquerilla West, which also comes
streak. The key performers are quar­
Hockey 
into the'game sporting a 5-2 record.
terback Jean Luther, defensive end 
continuedfrom page 24 
Cathy Colosimo, defensive tackle 
"This game is going to be a blood
Cathy Condit and running back
Thebeau was injured in the second 



., 
/1
'{ 
l1::: '\j

I·· 
. I 
(.; 
\·.~.·: 
' 
r
' 


BUYERS MARKET PLACE 5901 N. Grape Road Mishawaka, IN 

TOTAL DISCOUNT FOODS 
OPEN 24 HOURS 
DAYS A WEEK=i:l 
bath. Our girls are prepared and they
Robin Mchugh. ·~~~~~~~~~· 
•Anchorage game and missed the 
will have to stop P.E.'s triple option,"
remainder of the schedule to this "I think the jirls know we can 
said P.W. Head Coach Tory Patter­
point. His absence was sorely felt as beat Farley as long as we don't make 
son. "Ifwe can stop that, we can beat 
the Irish surrendered 1 7 goals to any errors," said Lyons assistant 


1M-:-~
them." 
Fairbanks. Smith said he hopes to coach Terry Connaughton. "It will 
sun tonnrg ·salol 

Patterson praised his defensive 
have Thebeau back by Monday, but ·be important for us to score early 
line and said he feels it will play a big 
J.M.S. PLAZA

until then center Mike McNeil has and get the lead." 
role in the game.
dropped back to the blue line. Lyons Head Coach Mike Connors 
4609 Grope Road

"Our defensive line has played
McNeil teams with freshman Roy stressed that the defense also will be 
real well all year, and theywill be the 
· Mishawaka

Bemiss on the first defensive line. quite important. 
key to the game for us," said Patter­
The goaltender position is very "The defense will be the key to 
son. "The game against P.E. will be a 
A giftfor someone 
unsettled. As ofThursday afternoon, the game against Farley. We must be real good matchup."
Smith said he still was uncertain who able shut them down," said Connors. 
The defensive line is led by Mary 
who has everything 277-7026
would stan Friday, although he ind­"Furthermore, we will be fired up 
Jane Lorton and Char Beyer.
icated he was leaning toward senior since we are the only South Quad 
Meanwhile, the offensive attack 
GIVE A SUNTAN 
Marc Guay. Guay split time in Alaska team in the playoffs, ;md there will 
relies on quarterback Cathy Flick 
with junior Tim Lukenda, but neit­also be a revenge factor involved to 
Gift Certificates Available
and wide receiver Nancy Evans. 
her was especially sharp. motivate us." Meanwhile, sophomore transfer Jeff In the other matchup, Pasquerilla The two winners of the playoff Henderson and freshman Mark East will take its 5-2 record into the games will play Sunday, Nov. l 0, at 2 O'Sullivan wait in the wings. postseason game. p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. 



Annaunc:ement 
from University Food Services 
NationalI~ Televised GameKielr-Off 3:30pm Breallfastserved from 8:ooam to 20:00 am Dinner Bruneh served from 2z:oo moon to 3:30 pm at South and North Dining Ralls 
Dinin'll Halls will NDT be servin'll 
afterthe ,ame 
MENUS 
Breakfast Brunch/Dinner 
Apples, Oranges, Bananas Fresh Fruit Bowl Assorted Juices Steamship Round of Beef Scrambled Eggs Chicken Macadamia Fried Eggs to Order Stuffed Shells with Italian Sauce French Toast Julienne Vegetable Medley
Sausage and Bacon Florentine Rice Cold Cereals Broccoli Spears
Asst. Cake Donuts Demi Loaves Pumpernickel Rolls 
Salad Bar Pastry Table to include: Cream Puffs Nepolians Sliced Walnut Cake 

'. 

Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 21 
Final four teams to meet in interhall playoffs 
' 
Howard's running game will meet Alumni's defense 
By GREG STOHR · Sports Writer 
Howard interhall football captain Jim Chmiel has heard a few things about his team's first-round playoff opponent, Alumni. 
"We've heard they like to clean people's clocks," he said. "They're known for physical play." 
The South Quad rivals will battle Sunday at 3 p.m. on Cartier Field for the right to play Sorin next Sunday. 
Sorin drew a first-round bye be­cause of its perfect 4-0 regular­season record. 
Though respectful of the 3-1 Dogs, Chmiel said he feels that his team has a powerful ground game which may present a problem for Alumni. 
"Our strength definitely is our running game," said the chiefof the 3-1 squad. "Our running backs and 

Stanford captain Bill jolley agreed that Flanner's power may present a problem for his squad. 
"I've seen them play once," he said, "and they're very big and physi­cal." 
3-1 Stanford, though, boasts some very capable players of its own, especially quarterback AI Martin, a sophomore who spent last autumn on the varsity roster. His favorite receiver is fellow second-year man Brent Basham. 
Stanford is not a one-faceted team, however. 
"Every week someone new is taking up the slack.," said jolley. "One game it's the defensive line. The next it's the defensive backs." 
The Studs are not as experienced in post-season play as one might ex­pect defending league champions to be. Stanford lost 13 players off its 1984 championship squad. Jolley said he sees both advantages and dis­advantages to this youth as the playoffs approach. 
"We're not completely coming together as a unit," he said. "We have a lot of new, really young players, who haven't played together long. 
"But in a sense it's good because all the new guys are as hungry as we were last year." 


CASH PAID FOR LP's•T 's 
POSTERS 

U2 David Bowie REM John Cougar Sting Bob Marley Pollee James Dean Beades Run DMC Billy Idol 
YOUR CH~ICE 
offensive line are outstanding." 
Howard's top back is sophomore Pat Clark, who runs behind a youth­ful offensive line of three freshmen and two sophomores. Chmiel said he likes to keep the ball in the middle of the field on offense. 
"Our running backs are more like bulldozers than Walter Payton," he said. 
Other top Howard players in: elude wide receiver Tom Passinault, linebacker John Adams and corner­back Tim Kottack. 
Alumni, on the other hand, should continue to rely on balance and variety in its attack. Quarterback Ken Schuermann and backs Tim Smith and Chad Smith (unrelated) stand out for the Dogs offensively. 
"We have a good quarterback, a good backfield and a good, solid line to make some holes," said captain 
BRECKENRIDGE WINERY SPECIAL 
4.0 L. 
While Quantities Last 
Humble Bob Says, "Good As CARLO ROSSI" 
Sunday's games 
1:30 p.m. Stanford vs. Planner Jp.m. Howard 
vs. Alumni 
Paul Laughlin. "We like to keep balance offensively." 
Defensively, Alumni has allowed only five points per game with two shutouts. 
Laughlin said his players are happy simply to be in the playoft's after clinching a berth in the season's final week wltb a &-0 tri­umph over Zahm. 
"We were really excitedat the last game and its carrying through," he said "Everyone is excited to play more football.'' 
PRICES GOOD THRU NOV. 2, 1985 
Balance and power will clash in Stanford-Flanner game 
By GREG STOHR more aggressive and tougher than Sports Writer the teams we've played against." 
Balance will meet sheer power 
when Stanford faces Flanner Sunday 
at 1:30 p.m. at Cartier Field in the 
first oftwo first-round interhall foot­
ball playoff games. 
The winner will earn the right to 
play Grace, which earned a first­
round bye with a 4-1 regular-season 
record, next Sunday. 
Flanner, 3-1-1, has won three 
straight after opening its season with ·a loss and a tie. Team captain Tom Sullivan said that his squad is 
peaking now. 
"Our last game (a 13-6 triumph 
over Morrissey) was the best game 
we've played," said Sullivan. "Our 
line opened up some good holes 
against Morrissey. We pretty much 
drove down the field on them. We 
don't do anything fancy." 
Flanner boasts sophomore tail­back Tim Arnold as its main threat on offense. Arnold has scored two touchdowns this year, including a five-yard touchdown run in the Mor­rissey game. 
Sullivan said he feels that his 
team's true strength is its defense, 
however, which has allowed only 
two touchdowns this season. 
"We have a real physical defense," said the junior. "I think we're a lot 
Led zeppl\n The Smiths RA1T Pink f\oyd 
(jDead Kennedy's Oor8 
clop ,.. ..-to..e cute 
UJ ,.. Mode "'8/o, uevecbe 



KINGS CELLAR'S PRIVATE LABELS 
EVEN AFTER F.E.T,.IIIGS CEWR PRODUCTS
RUM -BOURBON­
GIN-BLEND 
1.75 L 
549 
CASE 
GIUMARRA MARTINI & ROSSI 
IIUM£·CHAILIS·IUIGUIIDY·lOSE ASTI SPUMANTE 

2·.~ a·~.. 
CARLO
PAUL MASSON 
Johannlsberg Rle1llng 
ROSSI 
3~!, 


4~.~ 
'lz BARREL KEGS 
HIRAM WALKER'S 
IUD OR BUD LIGHT  3599  
OLD MILWAUKEE all  2&··  
•  

CIDER MIU SCHNAPPS 

4·~~· 
ARE STILL YOUR BEST VALUE! 
liNGS CELUR 
VODKA 
10°·IOIDILUTED 
TEQUILA· 1
I 9 9 
CAIIADIAII· SCOTCH 1.1s L 
20D II IIAIII  UIIIVEISITY CUIT£1  2~ DIIIEWAY IIOIIN  IIIli SIITIIliiD AfE  1111 liiiCULIIWU ll$1  IUUYILU SIOPPIIIS CliiiU  lU.t l McliiiLU  
HKNAII  IIISMAWAU  IOSIIAIII  SDITI 1£111  SOUIII£111  SIUIM IEliD  Sllll mt  
295-6310  277-7176  272-2522  233-4603  233-1430  233-8936  233-9466  

Even More Excitement at Tracks starting Nov.8 
IOto 9 daily 1631 E. Edison 11 to 8 Sunday South Bend 

The Obsener Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 22 

NEW YORK· Mary Decker Slaney, once the teen-aged darling of track, with her pigtails flying during a race, now is a mature woman, expecting a baby nextjune. 
She plans to continue,training un­til about two weeks before the birth and and to resume competing a couple of months after giving birth. 
"I'm not going to run indoors, but I do plan to train the entire winter and spring, until shortly before the baby is expected," the 27-year-old Slaney said by telephone from Eugene, Ore. "If there are no com­plications, I hope to be racing again in August or September. 
"IfI can stay as fit as I want, I don't think it will be too rough. 
"But if something happens and I can't race during the summer, I will go for the ( 1987) indoor season. Then, I will be really hungry to race." 
Slaney was very hungry to race this year· after her 1984 disappoint­ment in the Olympic Games at Los Angeles, where she had her celebrated tangle with Britain's Zola Budd during the women's 3,000· 
j' 
.;• 
Facts 
continuedfrom page 24 
team Academic All-American in 1983 and 1984. No Faust-recruited players have been able to win the honor, although Dingens does have an outstanding chance to do so this year. 
FACT: Notre Dame's all-time record in televised games, both na­tionally and regionalty, currently stands at 46-4I-2 (.522). Faust­coached teams typically have been less-than-spectacular on the tube, rolling up an 8-I2 mark ( .400). 
FACT: Faust and Devine are the only Notre Dame coaches who have lost two season openers in their careers at South Bend. Ara Parseg­hian, Irish coach for II seasons, never once lost an opening game. 
FACT: Not only is Faust the only
'I ·' Notre Dame coach to lose to Air 
( 
I Force four straight years, he is the 
1, 
I only Irish coach to lose to the Fal· cons. Period. 
FACT: On Dec. 18, 1983, after the Irish finished the regular season 6-5, Faust told the Chicago Sun-Times, 
., 
';! "If we can't get things straightened out to.the point where we're win­ning consistently, they won't have to 
r tell me to leave." 
} 
Maybe they will, Coach. Maybe} they will . 
.,'I,
i; 
I
I 
~ 
) 
,I· 
'.I 

Mary Decker Slaney 

Runner will train during pregnancy 

meter final. It was an ugly incident that resulted in bitter feelings bet­ween the two outstanding distance runners. 
Slaney satisfied her hunger with unbeaten indoor and outdoor seasons -in races she finished. She set two world bests and six American records, at distances bet­ween 800 meters and 5,000 meters. The only blemish came in the I,500 meters in the U.S. Olympic Invita­ti<fnal indoor meet at East Ruther· ford, N.J., in February, when she was injured while leading the race and could not finish. 
Otherwise, she won two races in­doors and I4 outdoors, her most scintillating performance coming at Zurich, Switzerland, Aug. 21, when she smashed the world record for the mile with a time offour minutes, I6.71 seconds. 
In that race, she beat Romania's Maricica Puica, the Olympic 3,000­meter gold medalist, and Budd. 
"It is always more important to win a race decisively than to break records," Slaney said. "You rarely get a race of such high quality and you should make the best of those situations." 
It was her first confrontation against Puica since the Games, but not her first against Budd. That came July 20 at London, where Slaney won the 3,000 in 8:29:69, then an American record, and Budd finished third. Reportedly, Slaney received 
$75,000 for that race and Budd col­lected S125,000. 
Slaney also earned S35,000 for being the top women's point-scorer and the leader of the 3,000-meter competition in the inaugural Inter­national Amateur Athletic Federa­tion Outdoor Grand Prix. 
"It was a tough season because I put pressure on myself to do well, but in the end, it was rewarding," Slaney said. 
Slaney said she plans to keep racing through the I992 Olympics, with another brief break after the 1988 Seoul Games to have another child. 
"My life is changing a little," she conceded. "Next year should be a lot offun. I have a lot to look forward to · having the baby and then racing." 

FRIDAY NITE Get Psyched for NAVY!!!! 

SUNSHINE PRDMDTIDN PRESENTS: 
JOHN COUGAR
~--~---­
MELLENCAMP 
THE SCARECROW TOUR Saturday. Nav•mb•r t&. 8:DDpm Natr•Dam• R.C.C. All •••t•r•••rv•dI t4.!iD 
tickets available at the ACC Box Office, area Sears. Robertson's. Elkart Truth 

I, 

Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page.23 
Bloom County 
/)tl[ 1lJ .'lf/lif6/?ot/S ~OMft.IIINTS f(t6111?1l/N& 1Ht tACK Of lletP­fflt. fltf<OEJK. 1Nf()((/'flii770N IN 'rf.S'TCRI?AY'S fNSTIIUW:NT, 
~NOW C(JNTTNf.le Wm; 
f(Jf(TH€R VIIUJA8U CXeRCtf£ 
1/f'S ... 
AU Of 115 I£Ke 1/r Bt.tart COfNTY /l£AU-Y CAr<t ~~ YOV'I? f!OI?Y. 7Rf/l.Y. 
Y()(J HIIV[ NO 1/l£/l. 
~,,_, 
Zeto 


The Daily Cros~ord 
ACROSS 1 Eastern European 5 Uraeus and cobra 
9 Unfreeze 13 Glass sections 15 In case 16 Nimbus 17 Tex. athlete 18 Put up 19 Therefore 20 "-Ismy 
land" 22 Grated 24 Pipe joint 25 First Ironclad 
warship 27 Dwarftree 30 Resin 31 Eng. award 32 Analyses 34 Wash 38 Golden oldie 42 Abominable 
snowman 43 Of kidneys 44 Pipe joint 45-Broz 48 He bought 
Alaska 6 "-That You 50 Fast court Dream On" 
game 7 Attention· 52 Before getter 53"-Lose" 8 "Tristram 54 "The-of Shandy" author 
Pompeii" 9 "In -of the 59 Claire and Night" 
Balin 10 Mute Marx 60 Deceive 11 Horatio­62 Plumed bird 12 Timber 63 Canine 14 Scale part 
comment 21 Unfamiliar 64 Medicinal 23 Propose 
plant 26 Former comic 65 Mason's Street Ole 66 "One Hoss -" 27 Group 
67 Tidings 28 Wind lnstru· 68 Auction word ment 

1111/85
29 Salamander 
DOWN 33 Thin groove 1 Petty quarrel 35 Can. prov. 41 Put on guard 53 Apron tops 2 Flagellate 36 Careen 48 Grain 55 Beverages 3 One against 37 Scanned 47 Battle cry 56 AGuthrle 4 Metrical 39 Blgname 49 Shims 57 Cheer 
lines In ballet 50 Jinx 58 Afr. village 5 Author Milne 40 Flower holders 51 Macaw 61 Rubbertree 

The Student Activities Board presents: 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


Campus · 
FRIDAYNOV.l SATIJIIDAY NOV. 2 
•2:00 
P.M.· Soccer, Notre Dame vs. Loyola, •I0:00 A.M. · Volleyball, Notre Dame vs. Alumni Field Evansville, ACC Pit 

•II
:00 A.M. · Rugby, Annual Alumni Rugby Publisher of USA Today, Stapelton Lounge, Game, Stepan Center Field 


LeMans Hall, Sponsored by St. Mary's College • 7:00, 9:15 and 11:30 P.M. · SAB Movie, "The Exorcist", Engineering Auditorium, 
•3:00 P.M.· 3:45P.M.· Lecture, Kathie Black, 
Relations Development Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S1.50 
•7:30 
P.M. -Ice Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Kent Administration Building, Sponsored by State, ACC Ice Arena 

•6:00 
P.M. Donn/Quad Parade, 


•8:00 P.M. · Comedy Act, jay Leno, Stepan
F.O.B.I.S. Fest Center, Sponsored by Student Activities 
Board, Sl0.50 before show, Sl2.50 at door
•7:00 P.M.· Pep Rally, Stepan Center 
•8:00 P.M. · Concert, The Dobbs, Washington 
Exorcist", Engineering Auditorium, Hall, Sponsored by Around The Corner Club Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S1.50 
•7:00, 
9:15 and 11:30 P.M.· SAD Movie, "The 

•7:30 
P.M.· Ice Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Kent SUNDAY NOV. 3


State, ACC Ice Hockey Arena 
•7:30 P.M. and 9:45P.M.· Friday Night FUm 
Series, "We of the Never Never", Annenberg •II:00 P.M. · Spanish Mass, Father Robert Pelton, C.S.C., Farley Hall Chapel, Collection
Auditorium will be taken for the victims of the Mexico
•7:30 P.M.· 10:30 P.M.· Hallo..,een Dance, Logan Center, Sponsored by Council for the earthquake 
•2:00 P.M.· 4:00P.M.· OpeningArt Exhibit,
Retarded, For clients and volunteers Africa and the Americas: A Curator's Choice, 
O'Shaughnessy Gallery West•8:00 P.M. · Piano Recital, Ms. Kayo Tatebe, 
•4:00 P.M. · Faculty Music Redeal, Karen
St. Mary's College Little Theater, 13.00 Buranskas, Cello, University of Notre Dame,
General Admission, 12.00 Students Annenburg Auditorium, Sponsored by
•8:I 5 P.M. · Glee Club Fall Concert, Department ofMusic
Washington Hall, Sponsored by Notre Dame •8:00 P.M.· Play, "They're Playing Our Song",
Glee Club, Free, but ticket required O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored by St.
•9:00 P.M. · 11:00 P.M. · Musical Entertain­Mary's College Student Government, S10.00
ment, john Kennedy and Friends (Irish Folk General Admission, S5.00 Students and
Songs), Chataqua Ballroom (New Nazz), Sponsored by Student Activities Board Faculty 
Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's Meatloaf Fried Chicken Turkey Pot Pie BeefTacos·Softshelled Beer Batter Fried Perch Zucchini/Mushroom Crepe Ham/Turkey/Broccoli/Cheese Sandwich Chinese Pepper Pork 
FoJ"I_.!..:d hy agrx:l. Dead Zane &pm ID pm 
Fnrl"fnk1 h· .1 wi:ar~l. 

Found 1--v a Kin:.:. Excallbur8 pm iZ am 



Second City ~ [r

EXCALmUR 
m 
fiil~~"'L---~

Comedy Troupe 
I:!!J ....--··--..._.
·------­
~ 

Friday, November 7 at Washington Hall at 7:00 and 9:00 
UJ~Uii]W~CJ ~~I] rnu;lD~ w~
Tickets available at the Record Store for $4. 00. 









orts
" 
'\ 
1' I 
I 
u:1 
'·~·­
l,.,,• ! 
J 
),..
r~~
!'t'
I'~ 
·: i4.1 
Ji • ...~ 
l\'\·~ 
L
r:a 
li;J . ,) :~ 
. 
., 
i ' 
\d
t \ J 
1,\ 
'!'if. Nt 

1, :) 

L 11w ot.rrve-r/Pik Phoco
) 
Tbe Irish hockey team will return to the ACC this weekend with action like thisfrom last season. Dennis Corrigan previews Notre 
1: Dame's two games withKentState tn his story below. 
J 
1' 1 Hockey comes home; 
lj :;
., 
)' 

Irish play host to KSU
j1_ 
I 
ByDENNIS CORRIGAN
\• 
Sports Writer
j~
;(t 
\ ',, 
The 1985-86 Notre Dame hockey \.·~ team opens its home season this
I 
weekend with two games against
r-
I
(, Kent State. The first game will get 
~ ~ 
. 
(H. underway Friday at 7:30 p.m. on the ice rink in the north dome of the 
. ~{
,, 
ACC. 
The Irish and Golden Flashes will tangle again on Saturday night with the same 7:30 start. Regular admis­sion prices for both Friday and Satur­day night are two dollars for adults, one dollar for youths. 
Admission is free to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students with I D cards. 
The Irish will be looking for their first win of the young season after a disastrous 0-4 road trip in Alaska last week. 
I 
The task will be formidable, though, as Kent State comes into Friday's game with an unblemished 4-0 record. The Golden Flashes have posted consecutive two-game ... sweeps of Penn State and Windsor. .. Second-year head coachJohn Wallin ti returns with 16 lettermen on a team 
that went 11-14-2 last season. Irish Head Coach "Lefty" Smith said he is looking forward to an in­

'.l:
.. teresting series in this, the first meeting ofthe two schools. 
"Kent State started their program in 1969 (one year after Smith reinstituted hockey at Notre Dame)," said Smith. "They struggled for four or five years but have since 
I 
I: 
I • 
1 
p J't 
1
I t 
.: f I
1 
. t 
1
': j 
I . 
1 
l ,;_;___. · 
I
r" 
i I .. .
d 
; ~ 
I _-·<-:· 
built a strong independent program. John Wallin, a good friend of mine, 
has built an outstanding club. 
"It'll be an excellent test. It'll be opposite slates going against each other. It'll be very interesting to see how we respond." 
The Irish will need much beuer 
efforts both offensively and 
defensively than they showed on 
their Alaskan trip. The Irish scored 
11 goals while surrendering 28 in 
losses to Alaska-Anchorage and 
Alaska-Fairbanks. In the first two 
games at Anchorage ( 6-3 and 5-2 
losses) the Irish converted on only 
three of 1 0 power-play oppor­
tunities and allowed two short­
handed goals. In addition, the 
penalty-killing unit gave up two 
scores in three short-handed situa­
tions. 
Offensively, the Irish are waiting to click. Through three games, senior right wing Tim Reilly has got­ten off to a quick start with four goals, but last year's leading goal scorer, senior left wing Brent Chap­man, is goaless with three assists. Smith attributes Chapman's blank slate to "hard luck." 
Center Torn Mooney has chipped 
in one goal and three assists, while 
Brian Montgomery and Steve 
Whitmore have the only other Irish 
tallies. 
Defensively, the Irish are in 3 
quandry. Senior defenseman Bob 
see HOCKEY, page 20 
Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 -page 24 

Facts speak for themselves 
Even though Notre Dame is only 3-3, high hopes abound in the Irish camp this week as preparations are being made for Navy. Decisive wins over Army and USC the past two weeks have sent many people scurrying to hop on the Irish bandwagon. At the same time, however, others remain leery of getting their hopes up because wins certainly aren't guaranteed over the next five weeks. 
There have been many times since Gerry Faust became Notre Dame's head coach in 1981 that fans have had high expectations ofthe Irish, only to have those hopes come crashing down. Lately many Notre Dame players have talked of it being a "new season" for the Irish, but on an objective level there really is no reason to believe things will be any dif­ferent now than in the past. 
It wouldn't be fair to say that the Irish can't win the rest oftheir games, finish 8-3, go to a major bOwl and Faust receive a contract extension. A rational person realizes the unlikelihood of that happening, though. 
Those who think the Irish started a new chapterof Notre Dame football against Army should think again. More than likely, it's the same old story. 
The facts on Faust as Notre Dame coach truly do speak for themselves. 
FACT: Faust's winning percentage of.548 ( 28-23­
1) ranks third worst among the 24 coaches Notre Dame has had in its history. Only Joe Kuharich (.425) and Hugh Devore (.500) had lower winning percentages. 
FACT: Should Faust lose another game, he will have lost more games ( 24) than any other Notre Dame coach in history. Presently, he is tied with Kuharich for that dubious honor. 
FACT: Only six seasons in the history of Notre Dame football have seen the Irish lose three or more games at home. Two ofthose seasons have occurred while Faust has been coach, as the Irish suffered three losses at Notre Dame Stadium in both 1983 and 1984. 
FACT: Faust's 1981 team was the first Notre Dame team in 18 years to finish with a record under .500 and only the seventh losing team in the history of Notre Dame football dating back to 1887. Among those seven sub-.500 teams were Notre Dame's first two, which went 0-1 and 1-2, respectively. 
FACT: Notre Dame is 4-13-1 in games decided in the fourth quarter since Faust has been coach. 
FACT: Under Faust, Notre Dame has lost or tied 10 games in which the Irish have blown a lead in the fourth quarter. 
FACT: Ofthe 13 games in which a Faust-coached team has trailed at halftime, only once has Notre Dame come back to win. 
FACT: Since the inception ofthe Associated Press Top Twenty in 1936, Notre Dame has not been in AP's final poll on only 14 occasions. Four of those occasions have come in Faust's four years as Irish head coach. 
Further, only one other time ( 1960-63)has Notre Dame gone four consecutive seasons unranked at the end ofthe season, and, should the Irish finish this year unranked, it would be the first time Notre Dame has gone five straight campaigns without appearing in the final AP poll. 
Jeff Blumb 
Sports Editor 


FACT: Notre Dame stands 90-69-8 (.562) in games in which the Irish were facing a team ranked in the top 20 at the time ofthe game. Faust-coached teams have not done all that well in this area, however, going 7-11·0 (.388) in his four-plus years as coach. As with overall winning percentage, only Devore (.214) and Kuharich (.250) fared worse than Faust against Top Twenty teams. 
FACT: Prior to this season, Notre Dame had been 
ranked in the AP poll 448 out ofa possible 587 times 
since the poll began. This frequency placed the Irish 
first in the number ofpoll appearances by one team. 
Looking at the numbers in terms ofdecades, one can 
see that Notre Dame has fallen offin the '80s under 
Faust. 

From 1936-39, Notre Dame ranked second among 
all schools in the number of appearances in the Top 
Twenty. In the 1940s, again the Irish were second. 
The '50s saw Notre Dame place third in number of 
appearances, while the Irish came in fourth in the 
'60s. In the '70s, that ranking became sixth, and in 
the '80s it has dropped way off to 18th. 
FACT: Between the years of 1970 (when Notre Dame agreed to accept a bowl invitation for the first time since 1925) and 1980, the Irish played in eight major bowl games (Sugar, Cotton or Orange) and one mipor bowl game ( 1976 Gator) for a total of nine bowl games in 12 seasons -a .750 percentage. In the four seasons Faust has had the opportunity to take Notre Dame to a bowl game, the Irish have par­ticipated in just two minor bowls ( 1983 Uberty and 1984 Aloha) · a .500 percentage. 
FACT: Since 1913, Notre Dame has had 79 con­sensus All-America selections. While Faust has been coach, Notre Dame has had but one such selection, and the honor was won by a Dan Devine-recruited player, Bob Crable. 
FACT: In joe Yonto's 17 seasons as defensive line coach ( 1964·1980), Notre Dame's defensive line was ranked among the top 10 nationally in rushing defense on 12 occasions. In Faust's four full seasons, only once has the Irish defensive line been so high\y ranked (eighth in 1982). 
Yonto developed two winners of the Lombardi Award, given to the lineman of the year in college football, in addition to having two finalists for the award. Crable -to repeat, a Devine-recruited player ­was a finalist for the award in 1981 under Faust. 
Since Faust took over in 1981, Yonto has been sta­tioned behind a desk at the ACC as a glorified paper pusher. Meanwhile, Notre Dame is now on its third defensive line coach over that time span. 
'I' 

FACT: Notre Dame has had 30 first-team Academic All-America selections since the honor's beginning in 1952, the most by any one school. Since Faust has been coach, though, only one Irish player has won the honor-that beingJohn Krirnrn in 1981, who, again, was recruited by Devine. 
The closest Notre Dame has come to the award since Krimm is Greg Dingens' selection as a second-
see FACTS, page 22 

,--------------------------------------------,

I }:::. &~~ SUBSCRIBE NOW! 1 
l~ · Ihe Obs_et:Ver. 1 
~~ It Only Makes Sense that a newspaper published by I 
students is the best source of sports and news at Notre Dame. I 
Join the more than 12,000 readers who keep up to date on Notre Dame and the 1 
Fightin' Irish through The Observer. We go beyond any other newspaper to give you I 
a comprehensive picture of the Notre Dame community. I 
0 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 0 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is $25 for one academic year. 
D Enclosed is $15 for one s~mester. 
I 

Name I Address 1 City State .-' Zip __ I 
~ : 
' . {l 
~--------------------------------------------~ 
~ "· 



The unassuming 'boss' of comedy 
CATHERINE COFFEY 
assistantfeatures editor 
I 
t's 5:20. 
"Hello, this is the reporter 
from The Observer. May I please 
speak with Mr. Leno?" It's 5:20. 
"You're 10 minutes early! Could 
you call back in a few?" -jay Leno's 
manager. 
"Sure." 
Sure I can call long distance to 
LA.(not Los Angeles, LA. ) in 10 
minutes. It's not every day that I 
have the opportunity to converse 
with the man David Letterman 
called, "the funniest comedian 
working today." Besides, it's not 
going on my phone bill. 
I can't believe that I'm interview­
ing comedianjay Leno, a regular on 
"Late Night With David Letterman, 
and a performer on the Tonight 
Show and Merv Griffin. Let's try this 
again. 
"Hello, this is the reporter, may I please speak with Mr. Leno?" 
"Cathy! This is jay." 
Egads ·I can call him jay. 
"How are you?" 
"I'm fine," I respond. Who'm I fooling? I'm as happy as a cow out to pasture. "What inspired you to 
become a comedian?" 
"Well, after my wife was killed by a heckler I knew I'd spend the rest of my life fighting comedy, just Hke crime." 
Actually, his wife, Mavis Nicholson-Leno, is alive and well at their home in the Hollywood Hills. 
"No, when I was a kid I always 
liked comedians. When I went to 
college in Boston I used to emcee at 
talent shows. I made jokes, and it 
seemed like a good way to make a 
living. After a few months, I was 
making S10 to S 1 5 a night, which is 
what my friends working at 
McDonald's or Wendy's were 
making. Then, I started going 
around to the strip joints and places 
like that. And when you're a college 
student, working in the strip joints 
is the most wonderful job in the 
world." 
Am I sure I want this guy to be 
my close personal friend? 
"After that, I used to commute to 
New York to work in those famous 
little in-joints in the City like To 
Catch A Rising Star, and The lm· 
provisation. Then, eventually The 
Tonight Show. It's really one step at 
a time, a slow and gradual process." 
Let's see. Ifhe graduated in 1973 from Emerson and he's been working since then, that's 12 years. 

Hmmm, most people graduate from 
c~llege when they're 21, so 21 plus 
12 equals ... 
Where does his material come 
from? 

"I write 99 percent ofmy 
material. You go through the day, 
and ifyou're hanging around 
reasonably intelligent people, you 
say things and they say things, and 
you get ideas." 
Reasonably intelligent people. 
Isn't one of his best friends David 
Letterman? 
"Is Mr. Letterman your favorite 
comedian?" 
"Mr. Letterman· ohh hoo!" Leno 
replies. "Call him Dave." 
Okay. I am going to die. David Letterman and I are on a first-name basis. I am hot now. 
"David's one ofmy favorite's, along with Robert Kline, Rodney Dangerfield, and Steve Martin. Anybody who's original," Leno answers. 
"You were described in the press release as a cross between Sylvester Stallone and Stan Laurel. What does that mean?" 
"I don't know what that means," Leno responds. 
Wrong release, Cathy! You should have spent more time on this instead ofwatching the Garfield Halloween Special. 
"What did you study at Em.er­son?" I ask. 
"Speech therapy, which I took because I saw in the college brochure that no written test · an oral report · would be given as the final. That sounds good to me. School was something I just went to in the morning before work," Leno says. "I feel really lucky to have come so far. I never thought I'd be famous." 
Am I surprised! A humble com· edian · what a rarity. He's truly grateful for his success. 
"How do you handle overly­enthusiastic groupies?" "Well, comedy's not really .that way,"says Leno. Now I know what career I'm not pursuing. Does he have anything to say to the students of Notre Dame? 
"I hope you win Saturday." 
Jay Leno will perform Saturday night at Stepan Center at 8 p.m. Tickets, Sl 0. 50 in advance and 
Sl2.50 at the door, are still available at the ACC Box Office and the Student Record Store. 

Happenings-page 2 Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 
Simon's Broadway hit delights with love story 

Spedal to The Obsener 
I 
n his hit Broadway musical 
"They're Playing Our Song." 
which will be making a tour stop at 
Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Sunday, author Neil Simon wastes 
no time in heating up the plot. 
Set in the glittering Manhattan world ofrecording studios and penthouse apartments, "They're Playing Our Song" charts the fits, fights, and egos oftwo gifted people, superstar songwriter Ver­non Gersch and his pretty lyricist, Sonia W alsk. 
Aft.er falling deeply in love, Sonia and Vernon discover their special talent for irritating each other at a trendy New York disco when both gloat and celebrate at hearing their own songs being played. Another thorn is Leon, Sonia's clinging ex­lover, who insists on calling her at Vernon's at all hours ofthe day. Added to the biting interplay of their songwriting collaboration, everything points to an explosive break-up. 
But growth, real needs and an unlisted phone number conquer all. By the final curtain, Vernon and Sonia are back together, ready for the roller-coaster moods of'80's romance. 
Advised by a slinky dance line of their "inner voices" (three guys for him, three girls for her), Sonia and Vernon explore their lives through a wide range ofmusical emotions. 
Composed by Marvin Hamlisch {"A Chorus line") and lyricist Carole Bayer Sager ("Midnight Blue," "Nobody Does It Better"), the ac­claimed score is a vibrant blend of tender ballads, comic turns and exultant rock, culminating in the rousing disco beat ofthe show's title song. 
But the chiefstrength of"They're Playing Our Song" lies in its recog­nizable love story. The fast-paced script by Broadway hit maker Simon reveals the warmth and reality beneath Vernon and Sonia's uproarious one-liners. 
Starring as Vernon in this new version ofthe show is Bill Tinsley, a young actor/singer last featured in tours of"Side by Side" by Sondheim andjacques Brei. As an avid com­poser and songwriter, Tinsley finds a number ofsimilarities between himselfand the role he plays. 
"We have the same drives, the same ambition and insistence on professionalism. I hate to say this, but the only real difference bet­ween us is I'm not as famous as he is -yet. he is definitely where I want to be in ten years. As for the more personal side ofVernon, there's a shyness, a reserve there that also rings a bell in my own personality. But that shyness is a big part ofhis charm." 
The part ofSonia is played by Diana Bert, a petite powerhouse singer making her first major ap­pearance before a national audience. Even more than Tinsley with his "Vernon," Diana feels an emotional affinity for her character. 
"Sonia's bizarre, showy clothes, her flip, defensive humor -that dizzy quality-that's me, totally .. There's more than that, too. 'Cause underneath the jokes and ec­centricity, Sonia is a very self­affirming, loving woman. It takes the challenge ofher relationship with Vernon to bring all that out. It's sort ofweird, the mirror image ofa fictional person staring back at you. But on the big plus side, my emotional click with Sonia makes me realize I've got a lot to give this part." 
Hailed by NBC's Gene Shalit as "a wonderful walloping hit," the original "They're Playing Our Song" won the coveted TonyAward for Best Musical. The show then went on to play to three years ofpacked houses on Broadway. This fall, a new national tour of"Song" is delighting audiences from New England to Texas. 
In the end, the show's enduring popularity is a credit to Neil Simon and his warmly comic love story. Perhaps New York Post critic Clive Barnes put it best when he wrote: "light and lively, with a sharp eye on the ups and downs of'now' relationships, 'They're Playing Our Song' is funny and provocative entertainment. Your audience will cheer it." 

Photo from Daedalus Productions 
Tbe alter-egos of pop songwriter Sonia Walsk make an appearance on stage. 
Photo from Daedalus Productions 

Vernon Gersch (Bill Tinsley) and Sonia Wa/sk (Diana Bert) 

NIG TCLUB 
Come to Tivoli's 
South Bend's Party Headquarters 
Open 6 nights a week Drinking and Dancingg·:oo pm.? 
Located on U.S. 33 IY. at !Yorth Village Mall 77-1 
The Best in 
Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 

for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00 P.M. Dinner 5:00 P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 
THE ANSWER IS 
.I 
vn11 
YOU 
HELP 
SAVE BABIES 


Chinese. Vietnamese &American Food 
Oriental Express 
CarryOut Dining Room e\· ~e 
6329 University Commons ~\0~ Just West ofUniversity Park Mall ~~ on State Road 23, Next to Kroger 
Mon. & Weds.10toff wilhdiningroomcoupononty 
I:B(]U~~ ~4J~ ~~ ~I:DI:D~ ~u~ ~~~~4JED0ED 



llv•at Chips 

MINDR CDNDITIDN 
75 c: SHDTS DF RDDTBEER ALL NIGHT DANCING EVERY NIGHT 
l:BlDUY~ U~ UlDl3 ~(ba]f]l3 U(Dl] Lrl!JUJ LDrn~ f.3fEI]£U(3UJ(3(]U 
FILET OF SOLE OSCAR 
Filet of Sole Topped with Seawest Alaskan King Crab Meat, Asparagus Spears Topped with Bernaise Sauce. 
$8.95 
re.-41l0tnk~ 

121 S. Illes. South Bend Reservations Appreciated Phone (219) 234-9000 
.,

Happenings-page 3 Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 



Crazy, deadly walk SMC founder's tale on dangerous streets steeped in heroism 
GERRY SCIMECA 
features writer 
T 
ry for a minute, to imagine some ofyour 
worst nightmares. You pay S500 for a 
new radio, and it only picks up songs byJim 
Nabors. Hardee's caters your wedding. Your 
Orgo final is in Braille. 
As terrible as these thoughts are, they pale in comparison to the living nightmare ex­perienced by the innocent, easy-going, Paul Hackett in the new film "After Hours." 

In this black comedy, starring Griffin Dunne as Paul, a simple date with a girl (Rosanna Arquette) he meets in a coffee shop becomes an ugly entanglement with the neighborhood in which everything goes wrong. 
Over the course ofone night, our hero is confronted by an onslaught ofweird charac­ters and bizarre situations which jolt his otherwise plain life. He soon finds himself stuck in a downpour miles away from his home with no money -all while a posse is scouring the town, looking to take his life. 
Dunne does an excellent job ofbeing subjected to the many cruelties which are 
Movies 

•The 
Student Activities Board hosts the movie "The Exorcist" Friday and Satur­day night in the Engineering Auditorium. Starring EHyn Burstyn, Lee Cobb and Linda Blair, the film is based on the non­fictional 1949 case in which aJesuit priest allegedly expelled a demon from a 14­year-old child in Maryland. "The Exorcist" reveals the fear and anguish surrounding the concept ofdemonic possession while exploring the fundamental nature ofevil and its irrational and violent infestation of man. The National Catholic Office for Motion Pictures calls "The Exorcist" " ... gripping entertainment ... a unique example ofeffective film making." Tickets are S1.50 for the 7, 9:15 and 11:30 p.m. shows. 

•
Friday night the department ofcom· munication and theater will sponsor the film "We ofthe Never Never" in the Annenberg Auditorium. Taken from the memoirs ofAustrian pioneerJeanne Gunn, the plot portrays her struggles as a lone woman struggling for the rights of the aborigines. Tickets for the 7:30 and 9:45p.m. shows are S3. 


Art 

•Opening Sunday in the West Gallery of the Snite Museum ofArt is the exhibition "Africa and the Americas: A Curator's Choice". Featuring a pictographic paint· ing of the battle of the tittle Big Horn, a Dogon wooden figure and a bone blood­letter from Mexico, the exhibit is composed ofNative American, Pre· Columbian and African Art from the Snite's permanent collection. Museum hours are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Friday and 1 to 4 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. 
mflicted upon him durin~ the ni~ht. 
Compared to Paul, <.:harlic Brown looks like 
DonJohnson. His journey on the "Bad Luck 
Express" is such an unlikely and thorough 
punishment that the movie is actually more 
bizarre than funny. 
Although the film overall has a humorous 
tone, it's not a movie for everyone. Its humor 
is fast-paced and dry, and there are many 
times when something will happen onscreen 
for absolutely no reason. Using death and 
other dire subjects as focal points for humor 
do not add to the "pleasantness" ofits plot. 
The humor is drawn by the situation Paul is 
m; the worse-offhe is, the funnier the movie 
is. Again, this is assuming you appreciate or 
are open to such strangeness. 
The supporting characters also do a fine job ofplaying the assorted weirdos that bump into Paul during the night. Teri Garr, Catherine O'Hara (from the old Second City 1Vshow) and Verna Blume all add to the movie with their eccentric parts. All of them, at one point or another, have the eye for Paul. This was an interesting contrast for the various characters who wanted to kill him at the same time. Luckily, there doesn't seem to be any moral to the characters or the movie as a whole. 
Overall, "After Hours" is a "different" movie, with a lot going on that will either have you laughing or shaking your head. Unfortunately, ifyou're a headshaker, there's a good chance this film could cause you to have a nightmare ofyour own. 
ELLEN MASTAKO 
features writer 
G 
eneral Ulysses S. Grant once described 
her as "... a woman ofrare charm of 
manner, unusual ability, and exceptional 
executive talents." This woman was Mother 
Angela Gillespie, the founder ofSaint Mary's 
College and the subject of"Give The 
Children," a play to be presented by the 
Northern Indiana Historical Society. 
... a woman of rare 
. charm of manner, unusual ability, and exceptional execu­tive talent. 
The play examines Mother Angela's role as a nurse during the American Civil War. Specifically, it shows her influence on two of the many soldiers under her care: a boy of 1 5 who had lied about his age so he could serve his country, and a disillusioned Irish im­migrant. 
Mother Angela was the first ofsix sisters of the Holy Cross to volunteer, at the request of General Grant, for nursing service on the 
The.Scoop 

battlefields. They began their work at a 
military hospital in Paducah, Ky., and were 
soon asked to open another one in Mound 
City, 111. 

A volunteer at the hospital wrote, "At the time of my arrival the Mound City Hospital was considered the best military hospital in the United States. The Sisters of the Holy Cross were employed as nurses, and by their skill, quietness, gentleness, and tenderness, were invaluable to the sick ward. Every patient gave testimony to the skill and kindness of the sisters." In all, 80 sisters served, in 1 5 hospitals. 
'Ibe sisters were not mere nurses' aides among many others, but the forerunners, in 1862, ofthe Navy Nurse Corps., led by Mother Angela. After the war, Commodore Davis, Commodore ofthe Western Flotilla, as a token ofgreat regard presented Mother Angela with two grim souvenirs ofthe days of strife· two cannons, "Lady Polk" and "Lady Davis" · which had been captured from the Confederate navy. And, on Nov. 30, 1919, the 
U.S. government recognized the sisters' efforts by placing markers, signifying army service, on the graves ofthe sister-nurses in the convent cemetery. 
"Give The Children" will be presented at the Historical Society, in downtown South Bend, at 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday, and at 
1:30 p.m. on Sunday. 

Assorted 


•Comedianjay Leno will appear at Stepan Center on Saturday night at 9 p.m. See story on page 1 ofHappenings. 
The Fun-Outside-Before-It-Snows Fest is organizing a a "Dorm Quad Parade" Friday night, in which dorm groups wi11 parade around campus starting at 6 p.m. at the Administration Building and ending at the pep rally at Stepan Center. A pizza party will be awarded to the winning dorm. 
•The sophomore class-sponsored Barn Bash with Saint Mary's Class of'88 is tomorrow night offcampus. Buses leave the main circle and Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's at 8:30p.m. Tickets are available from sophomore class hall representatives and at the Saint Mary's dining hall for S5. 

Mass 

The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend wi11 be: Father DanielJenky at 5 p.m. (Saturday 
night vigil). Father Thomas Blantz at 9 a.m. Father Daniel Jenky at 10:30 a.m. Father David Tyson at 12:IS p.m. 
•The Sophomore Class Mass will be held Sunday at 11 a.m. in the Stanford· Keenan Chapel. 
-


·Music 
•The 
Around-the-Comer Club is spon­soring a performance by The Bobs, a humorous a capella quartet known for its "nonsense syllables, doo-wop taken 'round the bend, and too-dose-for­comfort harmony." The group will play Saturday night at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are S4, or S2 with a student ID, and are on sale at the LaFortune record store. 

•
Eddie Rabbit and Sylvia wi11 appear at the Holiday Star Theater on Sunday. Tickets for the 4 and 7:30p.m. shows are Sl4.95. 



•Friday night the Holiday Star Theater in Merrillville hosts Southsidejohnny and the AsburyJukes. The band's mix of jazz and rock can be seen in such songs as "Havin' a Party," "Talk to Me" and "I Don't Want to Go Home." Tickets for the 8 p.m. show are S13.95. 


Theater 
•The Neil Simon musical and Tony Award winner "They're Playing Our Song" wi11 be performed in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's on Sunday. See story on page 2 ofHappenings. 
Happenings-page 4 Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 
--~~~~~-=========~==~----~========~--~-----­

Duke's breaks old routine 
with weekend blues, jazz 
JOHN AFFLECK 
featurn writer 
D 
uke's Bisuo answers the question: "What can you do for fun in South Bend that breaks the old routine?" 
Duke's is a blues and jazz club offering a 
comfortable atmosphere, a wide selection of 
beer and wine at an affordable price and 
some quality blues and jazz acts. 
"We opened as an alternative to other 
clubs in town," co-owner George "Duke" 
Albiez said. "It's nothing against them, it's just 
that the only other live music you hear in 
town is rock." 
With his wife D.J., Albiez started present­

The pair are an integral part of the club's atmosphere, dressed in tasteful, ifsomewhat flamboyant, complementing suits. 
The club is about the size ofan average family restaurant. There is a mellow feeling to the place with its soft lighting and wood· tone furniture. Seating is adequate; tables ace located around the stage, while booths which provide clientele a little more privacy are also available. 
Appetizers and sandwiches are on the menu at Duke's, and though I haven't done any taste-testinJC, their descriptions make 
these munchies sound considerably better than fast food. 
As for drinking, Duke's serves only beer and wine. The club has a collection ofover 40 brands ofimported bottled beers, however, and features 12 ounce Molson and Michelob Dark drafts for a dollar. Wine is available by either the glass, the bottle, or both, depending on one's choice. 
Uve entertainment is featured at Duke's Wednesday through Saturday nights. Wed­nesday is "Jam Night," when unknown musicians from the area are given the chance to perform. About 1 5 musicians ace featured each week, usually playing in single acts or duets. Thursday normally features a group doing either easy-listening or country blues music. 
On weekends, Duke's hosts quality blues and jazz bands from the upper Midwest, such as The Shacks from Elkhart and South Side Denny and the Skintones. The Albiezes recently struck a deal with The Legendary Blues Band, the late Muddy Water's back-up group, to bring them to Duke's for an upcom­ing weekend. The club gets jammed on weekends, so it's best to get there early in the evening. 
Duke's is a viable alternative to the usual 
round ofweekend parties and dive bars, 
which at this point in the semester may be 
getting a little boring. The only catch is the 
location, a good couple ofmiles off campus 
in the Georgetown Shopping Center. Ot· 
herwise, I would highly recommend Duke's 
for a refreshing change ofpace. 

The <Miecrva/Stcpbcn Blaha 

Customers relax at tbe bar wttb imported beers in bandduring a nightatDuke's Bistro. 

TWO DINNERS FOR 51295 Choose from Pnme R1b. Chicken lmpenal. Fried Shnmp. or Orange Roughy. A gourmet del1ght PLUS our famous salad buffEt and your cho1ce of baked potato. rice pilaf. or hot fresh vegetable. NEWI NEWI NEWI Peel & Eat Shrimp Oj the bucket 53. 75 a quarter pound a~ .4J.u-J..'4WRAP, ~ Colfax at the River ··· Reservations Appreciated-234-4477  

The ot.cntt/S«ephrn Blalao 
Duke's offers ltve jazz and blues regularly on weekends. 

~ "'"'' . ,.. ''<""' '·"-, '...•;c,;:. ,,.,• """''"'"""""'"'~;c·~:"""'""'' _,,.., , 
{
,fAre you a Frustrated Musician? 
r-
Your chance to Share your talent with the Notre Dame community in the New Nazz located in Chataqua Ballroom on weekends. 
If you are interested in performing call the Musical Entertainment Committee at the SAB at 239-7757 or Mike at 272-5588 


ARE BACK! 
LIVE! IN CONCERT 
SATURDAY, November 2, 1985 8:00PM Washington Ha II 
University of Notre Dame 

Record Connection and Nightwinds ~ sponsored by AROUND THE co~ 


The Game The Schedule The Stadium 
Fighting Irishvs. Navy 
Time Saturday, November 2, 1985 3:30p.m. EST 
Series Notre Dame 48, Navy 9, one tie 
Last November 3, 1984 Notre Dame 18, Navy l 7 
Meeting 
Rankings Notre Dame unranked Navy unranked 
Tickets Game is sold out 

Navy Sept. 7-(L) N. Car., 21-19 Sept. 14-(L) Del., 16-13 Sept. 21-(L) Indian~ 38-3S Sept. 28-(W) Virginia, 16-13 Oct.12-(L) Air Force, 24-7 Oct.19 • (W)Lafayette, S6-14 Oct. 26 • (W) Pitt, 21·7 Nov. 2 ·atNotre Dame Nov. 9 • SYRACUSE Nov. 16-at South carolina Dec. 7 -Army (Philadephia) 

The Observer Your attention, please •.. 
McCarthy entertains with safety messages 
ByPHRWOLF 
Sports Writer 
I 
t's a football Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. As the 
third quarter ends, Tim McCarthy lights a cigarette on 
the photo deck outside the press box. He pulls a three­
by-five· index card from his pocket and makes a few 
marks on it. He steps inside the public address broad­
cast booth. 
Shortly into the fourth quarter, a timeout is called on the field, and McCarthy's voice is heard by more than 59,000 fans in the stadium. 
"May I haveyourattention, please. 
The crowd roars, then falls silent. Yes, almost 60,000 people, during the fourth quarter ofa Notre Dame foot­ball game, shut up. 
"This is Tim McCarthy for the Indiana State 
Police. . 
Who is this man? Why does everyone in the stadium so 
Notre Dame 
Sept. 14-(L) Mich., 20-12 Sept. 21 -(W) Mich. St., 27-10 Sept. 28 -(L) Purdue, 3S-17 Oct. S-(L) Air Force, 21-1S Oct. 19-(W) Army, 24-10 Oct. 26 • (W) USC, 3"1·3 Nov.2 ·NAVY Nov. 9 • MISSISSIPPI Nov. 16 ·at Penn State Nov. 23-LOUISIANA ST. Nov. 30 -at Miami 
want to hear what he has to say? What is so special about him? 
He is the 54-year-old sheriff of Porter County, but to Notre Dame football fans, he is the entertaining representative of the Indiana State Police, who makes an announcement at every Notre Dame home football game. His sat~ty messages -always given with a play on words at the end -have made him a part of the Irish 
Notre Dame Stadium ( 59,075) 

TV and Radio 
ABC Sports national telecast KeithJackson and Frank Broyles WSJV-TV(Ch. 28) 
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and Tom Pagna WNDU-AM 1 500 
. Weekend Edition, November t-2, t985 

I 
I I I 
I 
i 
I I 
• .i_ J t 'v I I 
f 

j 

football tradition for the last 2 5 years. ···~ 
Still, it seems odd that football fans sit quietly while he delivers his message. And that was what McCarthy said to himself in 1960 when he began making the an­nouncements. Last week before the USC game, the sheriff sat in the ACC reminiscing about his "rookie" season. 
"I thought, 'This is ridiculous,"' McCarthy said of the straight-forward manner that was used for the safety an­nouncement in those days. "You're trying to get a message across, and at the Notre Dame game, let's face 
see McCARTHY, page 2-3 McCarthy is perched high above Notre Dame Stadium. 
Out of the spotlight 
Scannell does job with consistency 

By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
AssistantSporis Editor 
0 
ffensive linemen never seem to get the 
credit they deserve. When things go well 
the glamour positions get much of the praise, 
and when things go poorly the jine often 
seems to be blamed. But that is the nature of 
the position, and Notre Dame senior guard 
Tim Scannell is satisfied with the way it is. 
"It doesn't bother me to be out of the spot­light," says the 6-4, 278-pound native ofState College, Penn. "I can do without that. I'd rat­her just do my job and be satisfied with that. Offensive line was just the position I was made for. I have no desire to play anywhere else." 
And most people associated with the Notre Dame football program would agree that Scannell, one of four captains this year, has done his job very well in his four years in an Irish uniform. 
He is now in his third season as a regular at the quick guard slot, and has played in 36 games in his college career, which includes 2 5 starting assignments. In fact, Scannell made such an impression In his 12 games last year that he was tabbed to the preseason Associated Press All-America team prior to the 1985 season. 
"It's hard to say what I do well," says Scannell when asked about his successful career. "I guess I'd say my strengths would be my tech­nique, my consistency and my intensity. That's it in a nutshell. 
"I try to just get my job done every pl2y and avoid making mistakes. I might not always have the greatest block, but usually I get the job done in whatever way I can." 
An honorable mention all-America selection coming out ofState College High School in his hometown, Scannell had to choose between playing for the Irish or staying home to pl2y· for Penn State. 
"It was a hard choice to make," he recalls. "My dad's a vice-president at Penn State and I grew up following the team. Growing up, Notre Dame was the enemy. I never really thought much about coming here until right before my senior year. 
"I have a lot of friends there, but in the end I 
decided it would be best for me to go away to school and broaden my horizons a little bit. 
"And I have a lot of family history here, too," he continues. 
see SCANNELL, page 1-3 

.. 
r 
r r r r 
,. 
r 
r 
r­
r 
,r ~ 
Irisb Extra -page 1-3 
A few questions~ remain about ND 

Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 
H ello again, everybody! 
Why? 
That's the S64,000 question thisweekaroundcampus, and it's taking many different forms. Still, almost all the questions start with "Why?" For example. 
Wby are tbe Irish playing so well now afterplaying so poorly ear­Iter in tbe year? 
Ifyou asked Gerry Faust, he would tell you that, with the exception of the Purdue game, Notre Dame has played well all year. Not wan­ting to begin an argument which we already have written many times, let's just say most people disagree with that statement. In­stead, Allen Pinkett seems to offer a better observation about Notre Dame's success in the last two weeks. 
"We're making less mistakes," noted Pinkett after the USC game. "We're not turning the ball over like we did earlier in the year. It's simply a matter ofexecution." 
. 
The facts back Pinkett up, much more than they do Faust. Notre Dame has made only one turnover in the last two games, compared with nine in its first four outings. Penalties have been cut down from an average of 7. 5 in the opening four games to 4. 5 in the last two. 
Furthermore, the offense is capitalizing on the work of the defense. On seven occasions in the USC game, Notre Dame's defense forced either a turnover or a lost possession on downs. Five times, the of­fense was able to convert those situations into points. That's someth­ing the Irish failed to do early in the season, and it cost them dearly. 
While the offense is p'roducing, the defense also is doing fine work. The secondary, which took its share ofabuse after the Purdue game, has come back with some fine efforts the last two weeks. The linebackers and defensive backs have done a fine job of helping against the run, while limiting USC's passing attack. 
It has been the play of the defensive line, however, which has been the most pleasant surprise. Eric Dorsey has been much more productive since moving from the nose tackle position to the left side, while reserves Mike Kiernan andJeffKunz have performed ad­mirably in filling the gaps left by injuries to Greg Dingens and Wally Kleine. 
While the players have been doing their job, all is not well in the land ofthe Irish. People are still asking. 
Why are tbe Irlsb still calling ttmeouts because oframpant confu­sion after sixgames oftbe season? 
Twice during the second half of the USC game, Notre Dame had to call timeout because it didn't have enough men on the field. Things like that are understandable in the first game of the year; they are beyond comprehension at this stage ofthe season. 
So far, the Irish have been fortunate because such mistakes have not yet cost them a ball game. Let's hope the problem can be solved before it's too late. 
Unfortunately, it is too late to solve the next problem which has everybody asking. 
Why, ob wby, did Notre Dame don tbe green jerseys at ~lftime? 
Gerry Faust, the man who gave the order for the wardrobe change, cited history as his reason for changing to the green jerseys. He recalled the USC-ND game in 1964 when Notre Dame lost a 1 7-0 third-quarter lead, and the 1974 contest, when the Irish blew a 24-6 halftime margin. Yet, ifFaust would have thought a little more about history, he may have relented in his decision. 
In 1966, Notre Dame methodically rolled up a 51-0 score on USC at the Coliseum, only to return home the following year to lose 24-7. The lesson was simple -you don't embarrass an opponent. 
Notonly did the wearin' ofthe green humiliate the Trojan players, it also embarrassed Notre Dame officials. Itwould have beenone thing ifNotre Dame had started the game in green; it was another thing to change with a 27-0 halftime lead 
The change only could have distracted the players, who already were playing well. Most, like Pinkett, saw the change as "no big deal," while others seemed embarrassed at the decision. It caused one writer to comment, "You can take the coach out ofhigh school, but you can't take the high school out of the coach." A bit strong, perhaps, but the message certainly is clear. 
Please, Gerry, leave the fashlons to Pierre Cardin. Let's wear the navy blues and uy to make Navy blue. 

By MIKE SZVMANSKI 
Sports Writer 

N 
otre Dame defensive tackle Eric 
Dorsey, having moved back to his 
familiar defensive end postion, has 
shown the Army and USC offenses that 
for him there is no place like home. 
Dorsey, a 6-S, 270-pound senior from McLean, Va., started the year at nose tackle to replace an injured Mike Grif­fin. He struggled at that position until Wally Kleine went down with an injury, and Dorsey moved back to his familiar left tackle position. 
"When we reshuflle the line, we strive to put our most experienced and most dominating players in the game as much as possible," says Irish defensive line coach Rick Lantz. 
Dorsey has responded to the latest change in fine fashion, recording 1 0 tackles against Army and I 1 tackles against USC. "I have much more con­fidence and am comfortable at the outside," says Dorsey. "I can use my speed more efficiently. 
"I also have more responsibility. Since the nose tackle simply clogs the middle, the ends must pass rush, contain the quarterback and stop outside runs. We have a cleared field ofvision to see plays and one-on-one teaming with offensive linemen. There is also less likelihood of incurring injury." 
Injuries have plagued Dorsey's career. Playing in his freshman year helped him to "mature extremely fast," Dorsey says. But his sophomore and junior years ended in painful injuries. 
Notre Dame statistics 
TEAM STAnSnCS ND OPP PASSING G NO CO PCTINT YDSTD 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 1997 2082 Beuerlein 6 145 72 .497 6 956 2 T6tal Plays 424 438 Andrysiak 4 13 8 .615 1 109 1 Yards per Play 4.7 4.8 Yards per Game 332.8 347.0 ND 6 158 80 .506 71065 3 
PENALTIES-YARDS 39-338 28-220 OPP 6 155 79 .510 5 981 4 
FUMBLES-LOST 7-3 17-10 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 114 118 By Rushing 53 61 
RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TD LG

ByPassing 56 50 
By Penalty 5 7 Ward 5 14 209 14.9 0 26THIRD DOWN5-CONV 34-91 34-90 Brown 5 11 179 16.3 1 49Percentage .374 .378 
Miner 4 9 146 16.2 0 39POSSESSION TIME 178:53 181:07 Pinkett 6 9 68 7.6 0 22Minutes per Game 29:49 30:11 Starns 6 8 63 7.9 0 25 Green 4 7 95 13.6 0 29SCORING GTD PA R-PA S FG TP Eason 5 6 101 16.8 1 33 Rehder 5 6 83 13.8 0 28Carney 6 0 1Q-11 o-o 0 12-17 46 WiHiams 5 4 50 12.5 1 19Pinkett 6 5 o-o o-o 0 o-o 30 Heck 2 2 35 17.5 0 23Brown 5 2 o-o o-o 0 0-0 12 Cusack 4 2 33 16.5 0 19

Starns 6 2 o-o o-o 0 0-0 12 
Francisco H. 5 1 5 5.0 0 5

Eason 5 1 o-o o-o 0 0-0 6 
Monahan 5 1 -2 -2.0 0 0Fransisco, 

H. 5 1 o-o o-o 0 0-0 6 NOTRE DAME 6 80 1065 13.3 3 49
Taylor 3 1 o-o o-o 0 0-0 6 
OPPONENTS 6 79 981 12.4 4 37

Beuerlein 6 1 o-o Q-1 0 o-o 6 Wiliams 5 1 0-0 o-o 0 0-0 6 Cusack 4 0 o-o 1-1 0 o-o 2 Andrysiak 4 0 o-o Q-1 0 o-o 0 RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TD LG 
ND 6 14 1Q-11 1-3 012-17132 Pinkett 6 154 635 4.1 5 35 OPP 6 11 1Q-10 1-1 0 7-13 99 Starns 6 27 124 4.6 2 23 
"The best part ofEric's game is stopping the run. His explosiveness offthe line ot scrimmage combines his overwhelm­ing strength with his good speed," says Lantz. "He needs to improve his big play ability in the pash rush." 
Dorsey, one of the strongest Irish players with a 455-pound bench press, wrestled in high school to improve his football flexibility and agility. 
"A good arm base is needed to practice solid locking out technique," says Dor­sey. 
"Navy uses unconventional blocking schemes as opposed to brute force. Dorsey must be dominating against the run, as he was against Army and USC," Lantz says. "He must react to traps and control his charge to the ball with poise 
Francisco H.  5  27  124  4.6  16  
Monahan  5  13  33  2.5  0  7  
Andrysiak  4  7  21  3.0  0  7  
Taylor  3  4  15  3.8  1  7  
Brown  5  2  9  4.5  0  7  
Jefferaon  1  2  7  3.5  0  6  
Green  4  1  2  2.0  0  2  
Bauerlein  6  29  -38  -1.3  1 16  

NOTREDAME OPPONENTS  6 6  266 932 283 1101  3.5 3.9  10 35 5 39  
PUNllNG  G  NO YDS AVO  LG  
Sorensen  6  33 1408 42.7  57  
NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  6 6  33 1408 42.7 28 1036 37.0  57 59  
PUNT RET  NO YDS AVG TD LG  
Wilson Cusack  9 4  67 29  7.4 7.2  0 12 0 19  
NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  13 17  96 86  7.4 5.1  0 19 0 15  
KICKOFF RET  NO YDS AVG TD LG  
. Brown Miller Francisco H. Jefferson Monahan Rehder  6 3 2 1 1 1  188 31.3 82 27.3 34 17.0 5 5.0 0 0 0 0  1 93 0 30 0 18 0 5 0 0 0 0  
NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  14 6  309 22.1 98 16.3  1 93 0 49  



Weekend Edition, November 1-l, 1985 
-

in the Michigan State game. He regained the stan­tough situation, but it makes you try harder all ing spot for good beginning with the USC game. the time and it really brio~ the best out ofyou.
Scannell 
continuedfrom page 1 
"My father played here and my grandfather was chairman of the physical education department for 40 years. I had a little bit ofNotre Dame in me, also, so it was a natural choice for me." 
Scannell played in eight games his freshman year, including a 28-minute stint against Navy after an injury to starter Randy Ellis. He was the only freshman offensive lineman to earn a monogram that year. 
After torn knee ligaments sidelined him that spring, he came back ready to play in the fall of 1983, although wearing a special brace which he still uses. 
Even after missing much ofspring practice, Scan­nell started the first two games that year. But he reinjured the knee when he was hit from the side Last year, he started all 12 games for Notre Dame, and played more minutes than any Irish player on either offense or defense. 
"I was pleased with the way I played last year," Scannell says. "I was fortunate enough to go injury-free throughout the season and to stan every game. I played pretty well and was consis­tent." 
Throughout Scannell's years at Notre Dame, the team has been under constant scrutinization and pressure because of inconsistent play. But al· though it can be difficult, he feels it can be benefi­cial at the same time. 
"There's definitely a lot of pressure here," he says. "But that's something I knew would happen when I decided to come here. People expect a lot out of the Notre Dame football players. It's a ~In terms of national attention, Notre Dame really is unparallelled. It's great for players be­cause it gives us a great deal ofexposure. You just can't beat the exposure we get here." 
With only six games gone in the current season, the Irish already have had their share of ups and downs. But Scannell feels Notre Dame has overcome its problems and is making progress toward becoming a very good team. 
"The team definitely feels a lot better about itself after the last two games," he says. "We faced some adversity earlier, and we responded well. We're a much more confident team. The key now is just to go out and play with the same intensity and consistency that we had against Army and Southern Cal." 
Consistency, no doubt, which Scannell himself demonstrated. 
McCarthy has delivered his safety After their delivery, these lines plans to continue his "duty" at Notre message at more than 100 games usually are met by as many moans as Dame games as long as he is since then, and his supply of driving cheers. Their author said he doesn't welcome in the press box. "It's the continuedfrom page 1 quips finally is running low. mind the.mixed response, however. best seat in the house," he said, "so 
why not?" it, nobody wants to listen to the "I used the ones my friend gave me," "Even with the moaning and groan­policeman tell them to behave he said, "and the last several years ing, you know they're listening," he McCarthy said he has not forgotten themselves on the way home." I've been making them up. lbrough said. "My idea is just to try to leave about the thousands of fans who 
the year, I watch for a play on words them with some sort of a message hear his message every week. They It was Nov. 5, 1960, when the young or an acquaintance will give me an that they might remember as they're also do their part, he said, to see that police officer first stepped into the idea, and I'll save those up. But it's driving home because I sincerely do traffic moves well broadcast booth. He made his safety getting to the point where they are want the people to get home safely. announcement as his predecessors harder and harder to find." You're talking about an awful lot of 
McCarthy 
"The people that attend these gameshad done. He gave it, in his words, automobiles." 
are not only good sports fans," he
"straight, very formal and very sin· In fact, the well has run so dry 
pointed out, "but they're goodcere. And it just didn't go over very recently that McCarthy has begun 
McCarthy plays down the role he sports when it comes to driving.
well." recycling his punchlines. The shetift" 
performs in the press box, citing the They're looking out for their fellowmade that admission rather hundreds ofother law enforcement motorists and this is what we have to
McCarthy decided to try a new twist sheepishly last weekend before the officers involved in traffic control at have."
for the 1961 season. Previously he second game in which he used one Notre Dame games.
had been given some traffic-related ofhis "oldies." 
Just to be on the safe side, though, all"punchlines" by a friend who made "What I do up there is a very small of those motorists still will hear "thetraffic reports for WGN-Radio in "One reason I'm doing that," pan," he said. "I have worked traffic policeman tell them to behaveChicago. That friend, Len Baldy, a McCarthy said, "is because during many many times prior and after the themselves on the way home." TheyChicago police officer, died in a the first home game, I happened to games, and it always has been a very still will hear friendly remindershelicopter crash in the line of duty, run into Digger Phelps, the (Notre tough assignment. Those police of­such as these, a few of McCarthy'sMcCarthy said, "and 1 had never Dame) basketball coach, and hesaid, ficers are really kind of the heroes own favorites:
used those (punchlines) out of 'Hey, you ought to go back to some
:ive end 
because they're the ones who are 

respect to him. But I thought the ofthe old ones.' Well, you always do ' 
actively working to get people into }~ 
1"!
Notre Dame game would be the what the coach tells you." • Drive like lightning and you'll I
to get them out of the gimmick plays." and out of the stadium as safely as 
. ideal place to try those." · crash like thunder. I 
possible."

So far this season, Irish football fans • You'll never get to heaven ifyouThis 3-3 season and Notre Dame's 
On Sept. 30, 1961, the 55,198fansin have been entertained by these drive like the devil. 
record during his colle~e career have Notre Dame Stadium heard a pitch McCarthyisms: McCarthy himself has become • You may be at the end ofyourbeen a learning experic:nce for Dorsey. 
against drinking and driving, somewhat of a hero after these 2 5 rope ifyou try to tie one on. followed by, "The automobile • Ifyou drive under the weather, tt years. The state police asked him to"I came here freshman year with high 
replaced the horse, but the driver may be a fine today and cooler continue making his announce­And the odds are pretty good that
expectations, looking at the team and should stay on the wagon." tomorrow. ments even after he left the force six Notre Dame Stadium will be close to
the tradition," says Dorsey. "This 
• It never takes too many bottles to years ago. The sheriff has more than silent for a moment in the fourth 
season I think we needed to work as a The reaction, McCarthy said, was make a case in court. a year remaining in his present term quarter of every game as long as the
unit and win games by large margins. 
great, "and so the story goes. I've • lfyou drive to beat the band, you in Porter County, located in fans hear that familiar voice askingWith the momentum we have now, not­
been doing that ever since 1960." may wind up playing a harp. northwest Indiana, and he said he for their attention.
hing will stop us. 
"I came to Notre Dame partly because we play many excellent and top 20 teams," he continues. I do not want to escape competition because I want to test myself against the best." 
No one would doubt that Dorsey has had_an opportunity to do that. 
INTRET NO YDS AVG TD LG 
Ballage 2 35 17.5 0 35 Haywood 2 25 12.5 0 25 Wilson 1 0 0 0 0 
NOTRE DAME 5 60 12.0 0 35 OPPONENTS 7 89 12.7 1 30 
DEFENSE TIITL-YDS PBU FA BK 
Furjanic  87  2-7  2  0  0  
Lav.Tence  56  2-7  2  3  0  
Dorsey  51  8-31  0  1  0  
Kovaleski  42  1-6  1  0  0  
Wilson  37  3-6  6  1  0  
Ballage  34  1-3  1  0  0  
Banks  29  1-5  0  0  0  
Figaro  28  2-5  0  0  0  
Weieaenhoter  26  o-o  0  0  0  
Kleine  25  5-23  0  0  0  
LMkin  22  1-2  1  0  0  
Haywooo  20  1-3  3  0  0  
Spence  19  o-o  4  1  0  
G. Dingens  15  1-5  0  0  0  
Kunz  15  2-10  0  0  0  
Wells  14  o-o  1  0  1  
DiBernardo  10  o-o  0. 1  0  
M. Dingens  9  o-o  1  1  0  
Kiernan  9  1-1  0  0  0  
BuUer  8  o-o  0  0  0  
Gordon  3  o-o  0  0  0  
Pritchett  3  o-o  0  0  0  
McCabe  1  o-o  0  0  0  
Cusack  1  o-o  0  0  0  
Southall  1  o-o  0  0  0  
Streeter  1  o-o  0  0  0  
~  1  o-o  0  0  0  
1  o-o  0  0  0  

NOTRE DAME 568 31-114 22 8 
Confusion reigns as Irish tie Navy, 6-6 
Time Capsule 
by Marty Burns 
W 
ar may be hell, but to football fans ofthe United States service 
academies 1945 was a very good year. While many star ath­
letes left school to join the military ranks, they still were allowed on 
autumn Saturdays to don the uniform of the service academy into 
which they had temporarily transferred. 
This stroke of military intelligence immediately transfOrmed academies like Army, Navy and Great Lakes into gridiron terrors. While Monday through Friday at the service academies became a time to roll back communism, Saturday afternoon became a time to roll over depleted powers like Notre Dame. 
Still, the 1945 Irish managed to stand 5-0 when they went up against heavily favored Navy at Cleveland's Municipal Stadium. This was a pretty good feat by interim head coach Hugh Devore and his troops, for Notre Dame had been hit heavily by the call to service. Not only did the Irish lose several players, but they lost legendary head <;oach Frank Leahy for that year as well. 
At any rate, Devore did a great job of getting his young and inex­perienced team up for the clash with the Middies. The Irish, which had games coming up with both Army and Great Lakes, managed to concentrate on and outplay their foes from Annapolis throughout the contest, although eventually they came away with only a 6-6 deadlock. 
Though the weary and battle-scarred Irish might have felt a bit cheated by the final, the 82,000 fans in attendance saw an exciting ball game. Notre Dame shocked the Midshipmen early when ful­lback Frank Ruggerio bowled his way sevenyards and across thegoal line for an Irish score. tittle did viewers realize at the time that placekicker Stan Krivak's ensuing failure to add the extra point would be the difference between a tie and a win. 
K.rivak breathed a huge sigh of relief, however, with minutes left in the game when Navy placekickerJack Currence shank.ed his attempt at a tie-breaking point-after conversion. The Middies had scored on a 60-yard interception return by Clyde Scott, who picked off a deflected pass by Notre Dame's Frank Dancewicz and raced un­molested into the end zone. 
What broke out moments later on the final Irish drive of the game was confusing to referees, confusing to players, confusing to fans, and most ofall, confusing to NBC play-by-play announcer Bill Stem. 
Notre Dame drove almost 80 yards to the Navy goal line. With less than a minute remaining, Dancewicz hit halfback Phil Colella with a pass that brought the young player right in front ofthe end zone. As a Cadet furiously tried to pull Colella down by the shoulders, the Irish stalwart struggled to cross the line. Finally, both players fell out of bounds in the left comer, right before the touchdown marker. 
While fans hollered and looked on in dismay, officials ruled Colella short of the goal by one foot. The Irish then tried two quarterback sneaks but were stifted by the Midshipmen. The clock ran out, and so did the tempers of the angry Notre Dame team, which still was miffed about the earlier call. 
The officials then called the two team captains together to flip for the honorary game ball. That's when Stem, who was calling the game on radio, told the audience the ref~ees were flipping a coin to determine ifthe Irish had scored the touchdown. 
Stern was just a little off base. The tie stood, although the Irish did win the toss for the ball. As for the U.S. Navy, it went on to great success in the Pacific, bringing about peace and returning many ex­Irish players back home to Notre Dame in time for a national cham· pionship in 1946. 
-


Irish Extra -page 4 
e 
ame 

By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
C 
oming into Saturday's game with Navy, Notre Dame is on a roll with two straight wins at home by lopsided scores against highly-touted teams. 
Although the Midshipmen come into the con· test with a 3·4 record, they have won three of their last four games and have shown great im· provement. Last week, they were successful in knocking off Pittsburgh by a 21· 7 margin and Irish head coach Gerry Faust believes Navy will provide his 3·3 Irish squad with an ample challenge. 
"Their record is very deceiving," said Faust in his weekly press conference. "The first three games that they lost were by a total of eight points. They've really found themselves. They've won three out oftheir last four games against three outstanding teams." 
Navy's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense: 
The offensive unit of the Midshipmen puts forth a balanced attack led by junior quarter· back Bill Byrne. The 6-3, 201-pound Byrne, whose younger brother Tom plays for the Irish, was sidelined with a broken ankle in last year's matchup with Notre Dame after leading t Navy to a 17·7lead. Last year, Byrne passed for ~ over 1,400 yards in his first eight starts. So far ~ this season, he is 92-of-181 for 1,103 yards and 
I 
six touchdowns. 
~ 
In the backfield, Navy relies heavily on 
~ 
Napoleon McCallum to provide the offensive 
~ 
punch. In 1983, the senior tailback averaged 
I 
144 yards a game, ranking fourth in the
I 
country. This season, the 6-2, 214-pound
~ ~ ) McCallum is averaging just over 112 yards a 
game. He also has caught 24 passes, to lead the
~ 
team, for 193 yards and a touchdown. On spe·
~ 
cial teams, McCallum has returned 12 puntsI for 109 yards and 10 kickoffs for 251 yards. 
Joining McCallum in the backfield will be sop· homore Chuck Smith. While the 5·1 0, 195· pound fullback's primary responsibilities lie in blocking, he also has caught 11 passes for 102 yards to bolster the team's passing game. 
The receiving corps for the Midshipmen was depleted at the end of last year when its top four were lost to graduation. This year, however, Navy has relied on speedy talent, which includes senior flanker John Lobb and junior flanker Tony Hollinger. Lobb, at 5-11, 183-pounds, is the second leading receiver on 
the team with 13 catches for 133 yards and one touchdown. 
Hollinger, 5-11, 188 pounds, is the most ex­perienced of the receivers after grabbing 12 balls last year for 168 yards and two scores. This year, he is tops among receivers with three touchdown receptions on 11 recep­tions for 225 yards. 
Navy has an entirely new offensive line this year after losing all five linemen to graduation last year. The replacements provide the academy with better size and speed, however. 
"Their line on both sides ofthe ball is the big· gest among all of the academies," said Faust. "They're more in .,.... our league in terms ofsize." 
Junior center Victor Tuttle, 6-3, 235 pounds, is the only non-senior on a line that lacks previous experience. On the left side, the Mid­shipmen go with a couple of 252· 
pounders in tackle -" 
Francis Bijak, 6-5, 
and guard Chris Cas­
telli, 6-2. On the . • strong side, guard 
Mark Miller, 6-3, 
265 pounds, tackle 
Patrick Hoffman, 6­
5, 254 pounds, and 
tight end Greg 
Schildmeyer, 6-2, 
226 pounds, 
provide the block­
ing. 
·t""wik ·; · 
>~: ..'-·'_.-·,. -. 
,.· ::... '''1'·--,;~J -~*~-'~(:.')/~~-..~'?tit 
Thwarting the Navy 
attack, the Irish will .. tp1ti'&:r;;.~..j:~"(:"~. last week. 
J 
Weekend Edition, November 1-2, 1985 
VS. 


quarterback sacks for losses totaling 31 yards. 

Joining Dorsey will be senior Mike Kiernan at nose tackle and sophomore Jeff Kunz at right tackle. Both started last week and were keys in stopping the Trojan offensive machine. 
Due to the rash ofinjuries on the line, the Irish are expected to utilize their healthy lineback· ing corps again this week. Last week, they brought in five linebackers in a number of situations to go along with two down linemen. 
Leading the Irish defense at linebacker is senior captain Tony Furjanic. Furjanic leads the team with 21 solo tackles and 87 tackles overall. Joining Furjanic on the inside will be 

junior Mike  
Kovaleski. After mis­ 
sing the Army game  
because of a torn  
thigh muscle, the  
junior came back  
with nine tackles  
against Southern Cal  
- "'  ,  and is fourth overall  
with 42 stops.  
'1  Outside, junior  
Robert Banks and  
Cedric Figaro will  
have containment  
responsibilities.  
Aiding them will be  
a backfield consist­ 
ing of junior corner·  
backs Troy Wilson  
and Marv Spence.  
Senior Pat Ballage  
and junior Steve  
Lawrence will start  
as the safeties.  
Lawrence is second  
on the team with 56  
tackles, including 14  

use a line-up similar line-up similar to that used against Southern Cal. The Irish are expected to dominate the line as they have allowed only one rushing touchdown in their last 1 5 quarters ofplay. 
While junior tackle Wally Kleine is expected to be back in time for the Penn State game, both he and senior tackle Greg Dingens will be out of the line-up. On the defensive line, the Irish will go with veteran Eric Dorsey at left tackle. Dorsey is the only defensive lineman to start every game this season for the Irish, and he leads Notre Dame with eight 
Notre Dame's offense"· Navy's defense: 
Two Irish offensive units are alive and well and expected to put points on the board. Last week the first unit racked up 23 points, while the second unit added 14 points. 
The first unit is coming off a good effort and is healthy for the Midshipmen. A strong showing by the line last week is likely to be duplicated this week because of an edge in size and ex· perience. 
While he did not practice until Wednesday of this week, a healthy Steve Beuerlein is ex­pected to add to his career completion record at Notre Dame, which he achieved against Army. On the year, the junior is 72-of-145 for 956 yards and two touchdowns. Backing Beuerlein will be sophomore Terry Andrysiak, who was 3-of-3 passing last week, in addition to throwing the last Irish pass for a touchdown. 
Joining Allen Pinkett in the backfield will be sophomore Frank Starns, who scored his second touchdown of the year last week. At back-up roles are junior Hiawatha Francisco, who ran for 57 yards last week on 1 0 carries, and senior Tom Monahan. 
In the receiving corps, the Irish are strong again with sophomores Reggie Ward ( 14 catches for 209 yards) at split end and Tim Brown ( 11 for 179) at flanker. At tight end, junior Tom Rehder will provide good block­ing and heighth for receiving. Last week Reh­der was the leading receiver for the Irish with two catches for. 3 7 yards. 
Navy's 5-2 defensive look will be tested all day as the Irish will try to outmuscle a much smal­ler line. Starting up front for the Midshipmen will be defensive ends Chad VanHulzen, 6-S, 225 pounds, Eric Fudge, 6-1, 208 pounds. On the inside will be left tackle Michael Musser, 6-3, 230 pounds, middle guard David Pimpo, 6-1, 248 pounds, and left tackle Kent Vanhorn, 6-3, 232 pounds. Fudge, VanHulzen and Pimpo will pressure the Irish quarterbacks all day as each has collected five tackles for lost yardage this season. 
Leading the Navy defense is linebacker Jim Dwyer, 6-2, 223 pounds, who leads the team with 95 tackles. Joining the senior behind the line will be junior Vincent McBeth, 6-1, 218 pounds. 
The Navy secondary will be the toughest unit to play against as it is the most experienced of the three. Second on the team in tackles is junior safety Marc Firlie, 6-1, 204 pounds, who has made 77 stops. Joining firlie are roverback John Carroll, 6-0, 194 pounds, strong corner Steven Brady, 6-0, 185 pounds, and weak corner Thomas Metzger, 5-10, 185 pounds. 
With three straight wins at home this season, the Irish will be looking for their fourth by trying to dominate on both lines. 

PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
I I I 
I 
~ 
Each week, the Observer sports 
I 
staff, a random student picked by 
I 
the sports editor and some well­
I 
known figure in the Notre Dame
I 
community predict the outcome of
I 
the week's major college football
I 
I 
games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the 






Jeff Blumb Phil Wolf Larry Burke Kelly PortoleM ChuckFrMby Tim McC6rthy Bryan Green 
spread. In other words, it isn't 
Sports Editor Sports Writer Asst. Sports Editor SMC Sports f ditor Sports Writer Guest Celebrity Random Student 
I enough to pick the winner of a given 
~2 31-37-2 30-38-2 27-41-2 26-42-2 35-33-2 30-38-2 
~ game. The person must pick the 
.515 .456 .441 .387 .382 .515 .441
winner and give the underdog 
(last week: 8·5-1) (last week: 6-7-1 ) (last week: 7-6-1) (last week: 5-8·1) (last week: 5-8-1) (last week: 1Q-3-1) (last week: 4·9-1) 
I• 
points. Home team is in CAPS. 
I I 
PENN STATE over Boston Coli. by 14 lions Eagles lions lions lions Lions LionsI PITfSBURGH over Syracuse by 6 Orangemen Panthers Orangemen Orangemen Orangemen Panthers Panthers
I 
MICHIGAN ST. over Minnesota by 2.5 Gophers Gophers Spartans Gophers Gophers Gophers Spartans
I 
TEXAS A&M and Smu -pick 'em Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs Aggies Mustangs Mustangs Aggies
l 
Iowa over OHIO STATE by l Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Hawkeyes Buckeyes
I 
PURDUE over Northwestern by 22 Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Boilermakers Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats
I 
TENNESSEE over Rutgers by 11 Knights Knights Knights Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers KnightsI Michigan over IWNOIS by 6 lllini Wolverines Wolverines Illini Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines 
WISCONSIN over Indiana by 6. 5 Badgers Badgers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Badgers BadgersI• AUBURN over Florida by 1.5 Gators Gators Tigers Tigers Tigers Gators Gators I l.su over MISSISSIPPI by 7 Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers RebelsI VIRGINIA over W. Virginia by 3 Cavaliers Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Cavaliers Cavaliers Mountaineers 
I I 
FLORIDA ST. and Miami (Fla.)· pick 'em Seminoles Hurricanes • Seminoles Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Seminoles NOTRE DAME over Navy by 14 Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 


---~---­






