
Soph.-Parents' Weekend pictures-page 4 


Candidates emphasize social life and service in platforms 
Hamingit up 

Student BodyPresident Rob Bertino shows offhis Gilbert's tuxedo while trying to get a date for this year's seniorfotmal. More than 400 couples 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
StaffReporter 
Anticipating tomorrow's campus elections for the three class offices, the candidates are concerned with campus social life, community ser­vice, and liturgical programs. 
Among the two tickets running for next year's senior class represen­tatives is that ofjohn Spatz, Pam Fox, Chris Hirschfeld, and Lori Griffith for the positions of president, vice­president, secretary, and treasurer, respectively. 
Speaking for his ticket, Spatz said, 


Gordon speaks on what it is like to be a Catholic writer 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
News Staff 
"This reading and all readings tonight are dedicated to Kathleen Biddick and to the ideal offriendship between women that I hope will be allowed to grow on Notre Dame soil." So said author Mary Gordon after her first reading ofthe final ses­sion ofthe 1985 Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Biddick is an assistant professor of history at Notre Dame. 
According to Gordon, she and Biddick have been friends since childhood and have given "each other encouragement to be women ofaccomplishment." 
Gordon, the only child ofa Catho­lic family, characterized some of the drawbacks and benefits of being a Catholic writer. 
"American Catholicism is dominated by the Irish immigrant culture. It is not a culture that wants its people to have careers as artists. To the Irish, to tell about the family is to betray the family," site ex­plained. "But if you can get by that, it's a wonderful tradition. It's an unmined, closed community for ex­
ploration. In that way, (being a Cath­
olic) has been a great benefit 
because there's so much you can 
look into." 
According to Gordon, "People are 
very partisan about my writing. I've 
even received death threats from 
right-wing Catholics. People either 
think I'm betraying tradition or that 
I'm not telling them what the path to 
salvation is." 

Gordon, who said she decided to · become a writer because she "was 
not good at anything else," related to 
her audience the difficulty of being 
an author. 
"It's hard to be a writer. You have 
to have a notion of discipline. You 
have to make yourselfbelieve in the 
importance of what you're doing to 
make yourself do it. I have a special 
place that I go to every day, even if I 
don't feel like writing, to make 
myselfwrite for four hours." 
When described as being optimis­
tic, Gordon vehemently denied it. 
''I'm immensely pessimistic. I always 
expect the worse and I'm always 
ready to panic. Life is frightening. It's 
see GORDON, page 3 
"We plan to provide a lot of activi­ties so as to appeal to as large a percentage of the class as possible. 
"We expect to have a smooth transition into our administration since we have worked closely with the present administration." 
Running against the Spatz ticket is that ofEd Bornemann,Jamesjordan, Phil Poinsatte, andJohn Mihalovich. 
Mihalovich said that he and his running mates "plan to stress social service through such programs as the Neighborhood City Help. 
"We encourage unity among the class and want people to be organ-
are expected for this year's bash. Tickets are 156 andmay bepurchasedat the OBUD desk in LaFortunefrom 5 to 7p.m. until Sunday. 
ized into clubs and groups within the class." 
In the Class of 1987, the incum­bentsJim Domagalski, David Miklos, 

Melissa Moody, and Michael Gregory are facing opposition from only one other ticket, that one a write-in. 
Domagalski commented, "We in­terpret this situation as a show of support for our administration cur­rently. 
We are stressing diversity in our 



Playwright Glass presents works 
ByRAY MULERA 
_News Staff 
Canadian novelist and playwrightJoanna Glass presented pieces of several of her plays and read from her newest novel "Woman Wanted" Friday night at the Sophomore Literary Festival in the Library Auditorium. 
Glass began the evening by reading from "Woman Wanted," which she is currently turning into a screenplay for United Artists. 
The story revolves around a first generation Irish immigrant from Boston and her daily life. 
Following her reading Glass pre­sented scenes from several of her plays with the reading help offour students. Scenes were presented from her plays . "Artichoke," 


"American Modern," "To Grand­"American Modern" ,a long 
mother's House We Go" and "Play poem, was the next presentation. 
Memory." It accompanies her other one act play "Canadian Gothic" which Glass explains did not turn ofit as she wanted. But she said, "It's mine. I'm fond of it. What can I say?" The evening closed with scenes from "To Grandmother's House We Go" and "Play Memory." The latter, set on the Sas­katchewan prairie, tells the story of a successful salesman who becomes an alcoholic uporf losing his job. Glass described this·as her "most autobiographical work." Glass' reading was followed on Saturday by a presentation of her work "Canadian Gothic" in the LaFortune ballroom. 

activities since we want to build class unity through them." 
The write-in party, comprised of Erik Hickey, Hardy Lewis, Dan Coughlin, and John Walsh is "just trying to give people a chance to pick," said Lewis. 
"We are not opposed to the cur­rent administration but we are good with people and feel that we can get the job done." 
No fewer than six separate tickets are running for the positions ofpres­ident, vice president, treasurer, and secretary for the Class of 1988. 
Speaking for her ticket of herself, David Duncan,Jenny Uber, andJohn Huberty, Lisa Young said, "We have a lot of experience. Three of us are members of the Freshman Advisory Council. 
"We will have to work around the alcohol policy but we hope to use 
MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1985 

Sop h. Parents' Weekend a success 
By MARGIE KERSTEN 
andBETH WHELPLEY 
StaffReporters 
Sophomore Parents' Weekend at Saint Mary's came to a close yester­day morning with a brunch held at the Saint Mary's dining hall. 
SPW Chairman, Maureen Erny, said her only regret about the weekend was, "it went so quickly." 
Erny spoke at Saturday evening's Dinner Dance, which was held at the Century Center. She stressed the im­portance of appreciating parents, and closed her speech with the thought, "We'll be together wher­everwego." 
This was the theme of the weekend, as it was the title ofFriday evening's talent show at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
see SPW, page 3 
our experience to improve the so­cial life." 
Pat McGrath, Tim Marchesi, Chris Donahoe, and joel Myler comprise a second ticket. McGrath said, "We are unique because we focus on more than social life. We want to begin a class charity project which couldlast for the next three years.... something like sponsoring a child in a poor country." 
"We hope to work with the halls' rectors in bringing back Little Sibs' Weekend. 
Another sophomore ticket is that 
· of Steve Georgi, Laurie Bink, Sean Doyle, and Cathy Nonnenkamp, "The University is in a transition right now and we hope to establish some new traditions," said Non­nenkamp. 
see ELECTION, page 4 
The Observer Monday, March 4, 1985 -page 2 

In Brief 
Willianl deVrtes stitched up a tiny hole in artificial heart patient Murray Haydon's right atrium on Saturday, stemming leakage that had begun Tuesday when start monitoring the plastic and metal heart were withdrawn, said Bob Irvine, director of public relations for Humana Inc. in Louisville, Ky. DeVries was "generally satisfied" with the operation, Irvine told reporters at an afternoon briefing yesterday. Barney Clark and William Schroeder, the first two human recipients of permanent artificial hearts, also suffered from internal bleeding problems. Doctors also suspected the wound was unahle to heal because blood-thinning medication administered against stroke. -AP 
A lone gunman shot to death Roman Catholic police Sergeant Hugh McCormac, 40, as he went to Mass yesterday at Ennis­killen, Northern Ireland, near the border with the Irish Republic, officials reported. McCormac was shot as he entered a monastery with his wife and their 16-year-old daughter and 1 5-year-old son. Witnesses said the killer opened fire with a pistol at point-blank range, then fired several more bullets into the sergeant as he lay bleeding on the ground beside his screaming family. -AP 
The subway mugger, that all-American symbol of crime beneath city streets, is now spreading fear through "metro" systems around the w~rld. An Associated Press check of cities on four continents found that some subway systems are almost crime­free because ofrelatively small size, limited times ofoperation, heav­ily middle·class ridership and new designs that make them easier to patrol. And sometimes, as in japan, because the society Is safe. When a Tokyo youth punched an elderly subway rider two months ago, he touched off a national furor. This breach ofJapanese decorum was described by police as the first "serious crime" in 1 0 years aboard Tokyo's jam-packed underground system. ·AP 
Of Interest 
Senior formal tuxedo fittings by Gilbert's clothing wlll be tonight from 6:30 until 7:30 in the LaFortune Student Center. Discounted prices will be offered on some styles. -The Observer 
Two satellites were removed from Challenger's cargo bay yesterday, including a possibly defective one that caused the cancellation ofthe space shuttle's planned Thursday launch from its Cape Canaveral site. The suspect payload, a NASA tracking and data relay satellite, will have to be modified because it is believed to have a timing problem in a system that encodes communications on Defense Department shuttle missions. The second satellite removed yesterday, a Canadian communications satellite, will be transferred 
, to space shuttle Discovery, which was to have flown a mission start­Ing March 22. That flight also has been delayed so that the Canadian payload could be added to its cargo. ·AP 
A gunman opened fire in a photography studio crowded with birthday party guests whose lavender and black dresses resembled the colors of a Hispanic street gang, killing one person and injuring two others, police said. The shooting on the Chicago's West Side occurred Saturday after two men walked into the Dieguez Studio, where about 30 people in two separate parties wer~ assembled for picture-taking sessions, said Chicago police Sgt. William Murray. One of the men opened fire into the crowd, killing the birthday girl's 14-year-old cousin, Carlos Romero. Wounded were two ofthe girl's uncles, James Bucio, 21, and Ramon Buclo, 27, who were both in fair condition Sunday at city hospitals, officials said. The gunman and his companion ran to an alley behind the studio after the shooting and fled in an older-model car, Murray said. 
·AP 
.Weather 
Yuck. A high today in the middle to up­
per 40s. Rain likely tonight, changing to snow and diminishing later. Windy and colder tomor­row with a low in lower 20s and a 60 percent chance ofprecipitation. Tuesday, cloudy with a "30 percent chance of light snow. High in the 
middle to upper 20s. ·AP 


The Observer 
lb~ OIJR~ (USPS ~99 2·4000) is puhlished Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except during exam and vacation periods. The OIJR~ is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may he purchasrd for HU per year ( J.W per se· mester) by writing The OIJRrvcr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 4M~6. 
The OIJRrvcr is a member of The "->c.lakd Press. All reproducllon rights are reserved. 
Design Editor ............................... Troy Illig Design Assistant ................. Andi Schnuck Typesellers ................. Cathyann Reynolds 
and Tracy Bringardener News Editor.............................. Mark Potter Copy Editor .... john HeasleySports Copy Editor ..................................... Marc Ramirez Viewpoint Copy Editor........ Paul Cimino Viewpoint Layout............... Kevin Becker Features Copy Editor.............. Sam Moore Features Layout .................. Ellen Mastako ND Day Editor ......................... Miriam Hill Ad Design ........................ Suzanne LaCroix 
Kevin Murphy Photographer .......................... Chrisjones Sheila Burke 



Those wbo forget the past are condemned to repeat it 
Those were heady days back in 1968. The air was full ofprotest talk, and the University did its best to hear the students out. 
But somehow it wasn't enough for those students. Their president was a long-hair, thin-tie and tennis­shoes leader whose loose tongue almost got him ousted. Those interested in campus politics divided themselves into political parties, and they often seemed to fight more among themselves than they did as a united effort against the administration. 
Within the first days of school, Student Body Presi­dent Richard Rossie gave an embittered address at ori­entation. Later, he spoke out strongly against the University's plan to put 63 "rule enforcing" prefects in the residence halls; Rossie said the hall councils had not been consulted and the dean ofstudents said the coun­cils had never asked. 
By the third week ofSeptember-only four weeks into the school year -Rossie had had enough. In a Jetter to the student body, Rossie let · his emotions get the best of him: 
"We can no longer accept 

Bob Vonderheide 
Editor-in-chief 
suggestions." 
Rossie understood that student government should tackle more issues than simply the anemic campus so­cial life. 
He was upset that the Vietnam-involved CIA was per­mitted to recruit on campus, and he brought the issue before the senate. A motion to prohibit CIA recruiters was quickly tabled, and an angry Rossie walked out of the meeting. 
The campus sentiment against the CIA-and also Dow Chemical, a maker ofnapalm -eventually led to a four-day sit-in at the Administration Building. Masses were cele· 
a Notre Dame in which the brated beneath the rotunda students are consistently and Rossie gave a few denied an effective voice," speeches. About SO students 
Rossie wrote. "Nor can we blocked the entrance to the be misled by face-saving placement office on the day half-measures insuring stu­of the CIA interviews, and dents 'participation' in im­the recruiter went home portant decisions. Too many dismayed. students live in alienation or Now in 1985, the goals indifference, too many stu­and vision of 1968 are gone, dents are restless and bitter. but the parallels are Ironic, A Something is wrong at Notre recent effort by freshman Ed Dame, something that can Funai tried to nullify the 

be solved only (by) a radical 
restructuring of this Univer­
sity." 
The letter got Rossie in 
trouble for a while. A group of"conservative" students­
mostly freshmen -wanted to oust him and obtained 
enough signatureson a petition to force a new election. 
Rossie survived, actually getting a larger percentage 
of the vote than he had gotten earlier that spring in the 
first election. Even if Rossie was a bit emotional, it 
seemed that he was the kind of leader the students 
wanted: aggressive and tough. 
Rossie and his 48-member senate were instrumental 
in starting the Student Life Council, a tripartite council 
of students, faculty and administrators empowered to 
write student-life policy. 
Even though Rossie called the SLC a half-measure in 
his letter, he listed it as one of his accomplishments 
during the re-call election campaign. 
And it was an accomplishment. As Observer colum­
nist Tim O'Meilia wrote: "Those eight students (on the 
SLC) will help shape University policy regarding stu­
dents, which is considerably more than merely offering 

pr······'R~~~~:~·-.i·~i;"·~ 
election of Bill Healy. The 
SLC has long since melted 
into the lethargic Campus 
Ufe Council, and student government now wants to know how it can better make its voice known. And the only other time students have protested in the Administration Building occurred last spring during the alcohol policy protest. 
But something is missing in 1985. There is no vision. There is no understanding of what has been tried before. For all their faults, at least the student leaders in 1968 seemed to understand the purpose of their gov­ernment. 
But now, as student government struggles to restructure itself, no one seems to know what the fuss is all about. No one can articulate why student govern· ment exists. 
So our student leaders will probably expand the num· ber ofsenators (to including one from each dorm), and they will probably want more from the CLC. And that's precisely the way it was 1 7 years ago. 
As Friedrich Hegel wrote in 1832: "What experience and history teach is this -governments have never learned anything from history or acted on principles deduced from it." 

Stylin~ i 
>::t'~""'~ 

531 N. Michigan St., 
......~~~.~.~..~.~.~:.~~?.?.......~ 
SObering Advice} can save al~b:cr 1 
Think Before You Drink ~~~ Before You Drive 4.· · 



A RESPECTABLE CHDICE FOR QUALITY LEADERSHIP 
PAT McGRATH  JOEL MYLER  
President  Treasurer  
TIM MARCHESI  CHRIS DONAHOE  

Vice-President 



Secretary 

Spirit of 
88 

The Observer Monday, March 4, 1985 -page 3 

Peace With Justice Week to increase student awareness 
ByJOHN COYLE 
News Staff 
This week the Center for Social 
Concerns is sponsoring a "Peace 
With Justice Week" on the Notre 
Dame campus. 
The series ofevents is designed to increase student awareness of the problems ofpeace and justice. 
In 1983, the Association ofAmeri­can Colleges and Universities en­couraged its member institutions to mark the twentieth anniversary of the Pacem in Terris papal encyclical with symposiums, lectures and liturgies reflecting on that docu­ment. 
Concurrent with the anniversary of the papal encyclical, the Bishop's Peace Pastoral was released. Therefore the following year the ACCU stressed the idea of continu­ing to hold a week ofemphasis upon peace and justice every April. 
Last year, Peace withJustice Week events at Notre Dame were poorly attended. 
Scheduling late in the semester was cited as the main reason for poor student participation. 
The Network for Peace and Justice, the nationwide coalition of campus and community groups sponsoring the events, decided to move the week to earlier in the se­mester. 
The week officially began yester­day and will continue through Thursday. 
Yesterday, a Spanish Mass was said in Farley Hall and a prayer for peace was offered by University President Father Theodore Hesburgh before the Notre Dame/Washington men's basketball game. Many other events have also been planned, all in the Center for Social Concerns. 
The South African Crisis will be the subject of a talk given by Notre Dame Professor of Government and International Studies Dr. Peter Walshe on Wednesday afternoon at 12:15. 
Afterwards, Margaret Garvey, a member of the University Ministry staff, will give a talk on conscien­tious objection. 
Thursday afternoon, non-violence 
will be the topic of Manmohan 
Choudhuri's presentation at 12:10 
and the subject of military-tax resis­
tance will be addressed by Saint 
Mary's Associate Professor ofMathe­
matics Dr. Peter Smith at 4:30p.m. 
Also on Thursday, at 7 p.m., in the LaFortune little Theater, Notre Dame student Haider Raza will speak on Perspectives in Human Tyranny based on his experience of having a father who is a "prisoner of conscience" in Pakistan. 
The ND/SMC Students for the Freeze will sponsor a discussion on the issue of nuclear weapons on Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
Also, the World Hunger Coalition will sponsor a canned food drive Wednesday at the Marquette game. The film "The Business of America" will be shown Monday and Tuesday at 7 and 9 p.m. "The Silent Scream," a film depicting an abortion will be shown on Wednesday night at 9:30. 
According to the CSC and the Net­work for Peace and Justice, the Peace with Justice Week is a reminder that two years after the Bishop's Peace pastoral there is still much to learn and to do for the cause ofa just peace in our world. 

Master's degree in architecture to be offered next semester 
ByDOUG HASLER 
StaffReporter 
Next fall semester a new master's degree in architecture offered by the University's School of Architec· ture will instruct its first students. 
The graduate program will be funded primarily by a $1.2 million gift of William Bond Jr., president of Care Inns, Inc., a nursing concern in Memphis, Tenn. 
Bond is a 1950 alumnus of Notre Dame's School ofArchitecture. 
Additional funding will be pro· vided by John Burgee, a 1956 Notre Dame alumnus from New York, and other anonymous benefactors. 
The new program will be open to individuals with professional degrees in architecture from accred­ited programs, or the equivalent, with those having professional expe­rience receiving preference. 

Organizational meetingfor all those interested in entering the ND/SMC Multiple Sclerosis Fund Drive 
Rock-A-Like Contest 
Tuesday, March 5 7:00-S:OOpm New Orleans Room, LaFortune 
•Win yourself a spot at the MTV concert, 
and a paid MTV internship Any questions call 239-7668. 
Careers In Management That Start In Management. 
Why work your way up to management, when you can start in management? We have immediate openings with decision-making authority in challenging fields like electronics, inventory control and purchasing, engineering, personnel administration, and systems analysis. 
You get the sophisticated technical and management training together with the kind of responsibility it takes to turn a job into a challenging career. 
To qualify, you must have a BA or BS, be no more than 34 years of age, and pass aptitude and physical tests. You must be a U.S. citizen and qualify for security clearance. Relocation is required. 
The benefits are good. They include 30 days' paid vacation earned each year, low-cost medical/dental/life insurance, plus a host of tax­free incentives. Dependents' benefits, too, for family security. Of course, there's a powerful technical training program and important promotion opportunities. 
A Navy Officer Programs representative will be on carrpus soon. 
Make an appoint:rrent in your placem:mt office or call 
1-800-382-9404 for immediate information. 
'------GetResponsibilityFast.____/ 
gram and to start a graduate pro­gram. 
He called the new graduate program "a significant step in the (architecture) school's continuing development." 
The undergraduate program will remain in its present form as a five­year course of study. With the ad­vanced program in place this fall, graduate assistants will be present in some undergraduate courses. 
Amico describes the current ar­chitecture faculty as "excellent." He believes they are sufficient in num­ber to handle both programs. He also expects to attract visiting pro­fessors "to enrich the program." 
The Architecture Building will be able to fulfill the needs of both pro­grams, according to Amico. Proposals are now under considera­tion to renovate a portion of the building for the use of the advanced program. The renovations are to be completed this summer. 
SPW 
continuedfrom page 1 
Other weekend activities in­cluded a sports festival, a fine arts display, and a mass held at the Church of Loretto. 
Erny's parents, Thomas and Dorothy, commented, "We really underestimated the weekend, it went beyond our expectatio:;ms. The weekend was just fabulous!" 
Jean Conte, whose daughter Lori participated in the talent show, thought the weekend was the most organized she had ever attended. Mother Conte said the highlight for her was the fine arts festival. "I thought the talent show and Dinner Dance were both fantastic but I loved listening to the choral con­cert." 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Gray com­

mented, "For us (the highlight) was 
the talent show, our daughter, Mar­
garet, was one ofthe directors." 
Lawrence Elerteri Sr. said he liked, "Sharing the events of the weekend and the beautiful campus with my daughter Gloria." 
Vivian Lee, a South Bend resident, 

said that she enjoyed the talent 
show, which her daughter Connie 
performed in, but the best part ofthe 
weekend for her was, "The chance 
to become more familiar with the at­
mosphere ofthe campus and I really 
enjoyed meeting other students par· 
ents." 


Gordon 
continuedfrom page 1 
dangerous, horrible, and cruel but, you can have a good time in life." 
"I think veterinarians make a bet­ter contribution to the world than I do," she said. "I spend four years on a book and it gives my readers four hours ofpleasure. Is that a contribu­tion? Yet one is glad that Bach didn't become a veterinarian." 
South Bend, IN 46637. Openings for all crew positions, both day or evenings are avail· able. If interested, apply in person 9 AM to 1 PM and 3 PM to 7 PM on Monday, March 4 through Wednesday, March 6 at Holiday Inn. US 33 North, Roseland,IN 46637. 

An E"'* Opportunity Employer MIF 
Come pamper yourself with our precision cut & designer style. You'll be lookin' good. Special price $10 
R9GIS HAIRSTYUSTS 
University Park Mall 272-1168 
Recruiting will begin this week as 
mailings will be sent to schools 
across the country. 
Professor Robert Amico, chair­man of Notre Dame's School of Ar­chitecture, said the admissions board would be "looking for a broad section of students who are repre­sentative of the country and foreign nations." 
Amico expects the program will attract "a small, high quality group" of 15 to 16 students. 
The master's degree program will require 30-credit hours ofstudy that could be completed in one and a half years. Study in Rome .and Chicago will be available and would focus on architectual design. 
The establishment of the new graduate program will be celebrated in April when four of the five living recipit>nts of the American Institute of Architects Gold Medal will visit Notre Dame. 
The Gold Medalists, selected by virtue of their distinctive contribu­tions to the profession, will also par­ticipate in a symposium and an academic convocation, where they will receive honorary doctor of fine arts degrees. 
The gift made by Bond will es­tablish the Montedonico Fellow­ship, which will generate Bond Fellowships to be used by eligible students in the graduate program. 
The realization of the master's degree program in the School of Ar­chitecture ends a process begun by Amico when he arrived at Notre Dame in 1977. The petition for graduate work in architecture was fi. nally approved by the Graduate Studies Committee this year. 
When Amico arrived, he sought to improve the undergraduate pro­
The Observer Monday, March 4, 1985 -page 4 


Preventive measures prompted by outbreak 
ByJOHN SOUTER 
News Staff 
A recent outbreak of measles on college campuses has prompted the Notre Dame Student Health Center to take preventative measures. 
Carol Seager, director of health services, last week Issued an on­campus bulletin stating, "As a preventive measure, all Notre Dame students who have not received a measles Immunization since 1969 must do so. Any students requiring immunizatlons must contact the stu­dent health center to make arrange­ments for innoculation." 
Seager would like students to check their immunization records. This can be done by checking with Infirmary records. 
If a student has the slightest suspicion they are coming down with the measles they should go to the Infirmary for an examination, ac­cording to Seager. 
"It is very important for students not to diagnose themselves. The 

Election 
continued/rom page 1 
"We expect to have council rep­
resentatives to increase the input 
and feedback on our projects be­
cause we want to know if they have 
been successful or not." 
Also running for the sophomore 
class leadership is the ticket of Tim 
Malone, Patti Tripathi, Kary 
O'Connell, and Tom Crowe. 
Tripathl outlined the party's plat­
form emphasizing their desire to 
"get a representative from each 
dorm to alleviate complaints. 
"We feel that we will work the 
hardest of the many tickets because 
we represent the entire campus." 
Malone added, "We will work for 
the students and with them." 
Ted Smith and his running mates 
Brian Holst, Julie Flaherty, and Vince 
Willis hope for "increased involve­
ment. We want to have speakers 
from various businesses to address 
the class and help them make career 
choices. 
"Because we see academics as 
very important, we want to establish 
an academic council to review the 
curricula." 
Ofthe six-ticket ballot, Smith said, 
"Nobody will win on Tuesday. A 
run-off will be necessary..." 
The final ticket vying for the lead­
ership of the Class of 1988 is that of 
Tom Tracy, Molly Shannon, Jerry 
Krimbill, and Katie Pampel. 
Tracy, the party's presidential 
candidate, said, "Our big thing is the 
social life. 
"We want to have hall rep's and 
more off-campus activities because 
ofthe problem of the alcohol policy. ..e would also like to have service I"'Ograms such as tutoring for local ldds." 
In the race for off-campus com­missioner, Tracy 'Race' Thoman is seeking re-election. 
"I am currently the O.C. commis­sioner and I am the only one of the three candidates who lives off­campus right now. I have the experi­ence having served as liturgical commissioner and having run other events such as our formals and fund­raisers. I hope to have a more structured O.C. government next year, getting things more together than they are now," said Thoman. 
The other two off-campus candi­dates, Tom 'Beaver' McDonald and Kevin Howard, could not be reached for comment. 
doctors will check you out," cau­
tioned Seager. 
Seager stressed that the im­
munizations would be provided at 
no cost. 
"For many students the cost ofthe immunization is a big factor. Stu­dents should know the State Health Department is providing the service free to the students." 
Seager did not know if the service would be provided at the infirmary or a nearby location. 
Measles, a highly contagious virus with flu-like symptoms, can be trans­mitted by almost any kind of con­tact. Because of close living arrangements, residence halls pro­vide ample opportunity for measles to spread. 
There are two kinds of measles, Rubella (three-day or German measles) and Rubeola (hard measles). 
Complications may arise if measles are not treated. The virus lowers the resistance of the patient to secondary infections. 
Two students from Principia Col­lege in southern Illinois died from complications arising from measles because they failed to get treatment. 


picture (top) and Colleen Barry andparents enjoy brunch. 
Ayres wants you to hit the beach looking your best 
Don't blend into the crowd on the beach. Set yourself apart in Catalina's splashy print boxer trunks with elastic waist in cotton­polyester-nylon blend. 25.00, and the matching short-sleeve print tops, 32.00. Also available from our terrific collection of styles and colors, a print Lycra bikini brief from Jantzen. 16.00. Head to Ayres before you head for the sun; we've got what you need for Spring Break 1985. Sport Shop, Scottsdale Mall and University Park. 
Learn the facts about cancer. 
And make not knowing the risks, one less risk. 
Shop Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park today. 10:00 to 9:00. 
-----~­






View~_o_i_n__t___________
Mo-nd-ay_,M-ar-ch-4,-19-85-pa-ge5 
A generation comes and goes, but Hesburgh stays 
Dear Class of 1985; 
Some time ago while listening to a friend's lovely piano playing, I pondered Father Res­burgh's request to be your commencement speaker. I thought a lot about the wise words that I could give you on your way into "real" 
Jurgen Brauer 
Sunday school 
life, but eventually these words ot the Preac· her, who I count to be among the wisest men whom ever lived, carne to mind. 
For everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under the sky: a time to study, and a time to relax (that is to say, a time to break down, and a time to build up); a time to write a paper, and a time to tear it apart; a time for an A, and a time for a F; a time for freshman year, and a time for senior year and com­mencement speakers; a time for winning a championship, and a time for losing it; a time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance. 
But is there any thing of which it is said, "See, this is new?" A generation goes, and a 

generation comes, but Father Hesburgh 
remains forever. 

Commencement speakers come from the 
South, and may eventually come from Rome, 
but doubt is cast upon them all. 
When summer goes, and winter comes, so do the complaints about unsafe walkways. Hungry ones in Africa and downtown South Bend, and satiated ones on the Notre Dame campus, yet the cook is always the first to be blamed. Vanity ofvanities! 
All is vanity. We have all plied our minds to know wisdom and madness and folly. And some ofyou· but not all· perceive this is to be striving after wind. 
You said to yourselves, "Corne now, we will enjoy ourselves at the game." But behold, this also was vanity, for Sister said ofyour laughter, "It is mad," and ofyour pleasure, "What use is it?" 
Once graduated you will build skyscrapers (where land ·prices are high) and plant vast orchards (where land prices are low). You will make unto yourselves private gardens and parks with pools therein to water the grass and trees. You will have any number of cars and homes (more than any before you). And 
Man cannot live by cash 


alone, or can he? 
I have always been in awe of those individ· uals on television commercials who hold credit cards. 
It seems only fitting to idolize those who hold the infamous "gold" cards which allow them to purchase scuba gear in Aruba. The 
Dave Kroeger 
Wednesday's child 
world is at their fingertips, and those twelve little numbers cause even the most sure­footed of store clerks to tremble. Not being one to miss out on the opportunity of a lifetime, I soon applied for mine. 
I remember the day so well. It was a fairly cold and blustery morning when I made my daily trek to the mailbox. I looked inside and noticed a fairly fat white envelope. At first, it appeared like a Carnpusnet bill, but I was soon to be overcome by surprise. For the little protrusion from the envelope was my new VISA card. 
Truly, this day was to go down in history. Not to be outdone by some paid actor in a commercial, I immediately proceeded to take my card on a tour and "break it in." 
I literally flew from one store to the next as the stack of packages at my side began to amass into a UPS man's nightmare. Why worry when it was such fun to say,''Charge it."? 
By the time I was through, I had put several store clerks through graduate school and my card was hotter than Mount St. Helens. 
One month later, however, the honeymoon was over. I had so many little slips of carbon ing became more rapid. My pupils began to dilate. My hands, to shake. 

For those who have never had a credit card in your sweaty little palms, you cannot sym­pathize with me. You do not know the smug satisfaction ofcorning up with more than two forms of identification. You do not know the physiological pleasure received while waiting for a clerk to call in your number for a secJJrity check. It is almost like being in Las Vegas. What is more, you do not know the true meaning of"sirnple monthly payments." 
I have always laughed at those who think the budget deficit is the most pressing matter of the economy. Me and others like me have managed to amass a private debt ofmore than S1.7 trillion. Compared to that, the deficit looks like kid stuff. When the American private debt is added to what the world in gen­eral owes, the figure inflates to even more drastic heights. 
Sure, credit is good. It promotes spending that might not ordinarily occur, but be realis­tic. One needs to draw the line somewhere. This is especially true when one realizes that most of these purchases were not really nec­essary in the first place. Slow down. Wait a while longer for that new VCR. Leave horne without American Express. You might find out that "cash and carry" was created for a rea­son. 
I still admire those people on television commercials, but I am beginning to have my doubts. It seems that living beyond your income consistently will result in a few prob­lems. Certainly Mexico and Brazil are good examples of what can happen when debtors can no longer pay their debts. We all lose so you will become great and surpass all, past and present. And your scholarly wisdom which Notre Dame bestowed upon you remains with you all your life. 
And whatever your inner eyes desire you will set out to create. You will keep your hearts from no pleasure, for your heart will find pleasure in all your toil, just as it was with the Class of 1984, and it was their reward. 
But then, when they grew older, they con­sidered all their hands had done and the toil they had spent in doing it, and beheld, all was vanity and a striving after wind. So they turned to consider wisdom and madness and folly, for what can the Class of '85 do? Only what the Class of'84 has done already. The '84s said to themselves, "What befalls the fools also befalls us; why then have we been so very wise? How the wise die just like the fools!" 
So they hated life and all their toiling under the sun, seeing that they must leave it to the Class of'85. And who knows whether you will be wise men or fools? Yet, you the '85~s will be master ofall for which the '84s toiled and used their wisdom under the sun. This also is vanity. 
The '84s turned about and despaired over all the toil oftheir labor, because sometimes a man who has toiled with wisdom and knowl­edge and skill must leave all to be enjoyed by the Class of '85 which did not toil for it. This also is vanity and a great evil. 
What did they have from all their toil and strain under the dome, the golden and the 
.. 
secular one? All their days were full of pain, and their work was a vexation; even at night 
.. 
their minds did not rest. This also is vanity. .. 
And so they say to you, the Class of '85: There is nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and find enjoyment in his toil. Better is a handful of quietness than two hands full of toil and a striving after wind. 
Some such quietness now let us practice, for you have already heard my speech (as countless others have before you over the last ~ few thousand years) and there is nothing new therein. 
jurgen Brauer is an economics graduate student at Notre Dame and a regular View­point columnist. 
I 

..
~----P_.o_._B_ox_Q ~I· 
j 
1 1 
Iwo Jima was a battle well worth the s~ruggle 
Dear Editor: 
It seems that Mr. Neblo neglected to do some basic research prior to writing his column of Feb. 26., relying more upon film footage of James Garner and Julie Andrews than upon history. 
IwoJirna is a small volcanic island 750 miles southeast ofToyko as Neblo asserts. However, when Neblo goes further to suggest that it is a "worthless chunk of volcanic ash," he reveals his profound ignorance ofthe subject at hand. Iwo Jirna provided the U.S. Navy with an air­altruism. Cowardice only serves to preserve the skin of the coward while leading to the further suffering ofothers. 
John Stuart Mill wrote that war is a terrible thing, but also that a more terrible thing existed: the poverty ofspirit that drives some to think that nothing is worth fighting for. 
Weaker people enjoy their freedom be· cause stronger people are willing to sacrifice their lives to preserve that freedom. Neblo's gratitude to the Americans who fought in America's wars is not unwarranted. He should admire their courage and selflessness that left so many of them behind on small islands like IwoJirna. 
Bob Spinelli SorlnHa/1 
paper that I needed to go out and buy filing when something like this happens. field close enough to Japan to allow disabled cabinets. Still, the darn card is so attractive. I tried to aircraft to land safely. It is estimated that the Employees began to smile and rub their give it up for the new year but to no avail, and livesofsome 20,000 U.S. airmen were saved in 

Letters to the editor 
hands when I walked into a store. What is a Lenten resolution was doomed to failure as landings on Iwo Jirna. The terrible casualties more, is that another envelope arrived in the well. I tried to lose it, but the company kept suffered by the U.S. Marine Corps were not 
Viewpoint would like to bear from 
mail, one much fatter than the first. It was the sending me a new one. They know a sucker manifestations ofsenseless waste but a means 
you. If you would like to respond to 
bill. when they see one. In the meantime, a strange of preserving lives and preventing more suf­
something you've read in The Something was obviously amiss. The people voice inside my head keeps saying, "What will fering. 
Observer, why not write a letter to the in the commercials never seemed to receive you do? :what will you do?" I also question Neblo's assertion that 
editor. Letters should be well-written, 
bills. Perhaps they were never horne long "heroism propagates wac" while cowardice 
typed, no more than 250 words In enough to re:Uize they had a greater debt than David Kroeger is a sophomore in the Arts seems to establish peace. Wars are fought out 
length and must bear the signature of Brazil. I was not as fortunate, though. and Letters Honors Program and a regular ofignorance and greed, and heroism is simply 
the author. 
I felt a large lump in my throat. My breath· Viewpoint columnist. the behavioral manifestation of courage and 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 ' (219) 239·5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ..... ~ ... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager........... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller ..............Dave Stephenitch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor .......... ~ .. Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor.. . . ~ ~ .. Dan McCullough Circulation Manager . ......... Jell O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Editor..... . .. Michael Sullivan Production Manager. ~ ....... Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Viewpoint Editor . . . .... Dave Grote Project Manager ........... Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor. ~ ..... Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 



Monday, March 4, 1985 -page 6 -7 

Murder, intrigue, and politics at 30,000 feet 


Finally, an intelligent and intriguing look at teenage growing pains 
I 
--!/{11/11//fA. 
~
Bob Phillips ;; ~ 
Movie review ~~~~ 
I 
Hollywood seems to hate the 
youth oftoday. Although its 
target audience is becoming 
predominately under 20, Holly­
wood filmmakers continue to 
depict teens as mindless, 
sexually-oriented fools whose 
thoughts go no farther than their 
precocious classmates ofthe 
opposite sex. 
But not all filmmakers hate the 
teen population. In defense of 
today's youth comes 
writer/directorJohn Hughes, 
who firmly believes that kids 
today have personalities worth 
exploring. 
His latest effort in eliminating the prejudice against teens is "The Breakfast Club." This film directly attacks common stereotypes that teens today labor under, by at first appearing to assert them and then thoroughly eliminating them. 
Anthony Michael Hall, from Hughes' earlier film "Sixteen Candles," introduces the rum by identifying each character with what adults would accept as suitable categories. We are intro­duced to "the brain" (Hall), "the beauty," "the athlete," "the cri­minal" and "the basket-case." They meet for Saturday deten­tion in their school library, and the film concentrates on their getting to know each other and establishing themselves as com­plex individuals. 
The first half ofthe rum is dominated by "the criminal," played by Judd Nelson with power and charisma. He's a teen that rejects all authority, all insti· tutions, and all his fellow stu­dents. He mocks everything eloquently and effectively. The product ofabusive parents, he cares nothing for the institution that educates him, expressing himselfin almost artistic displays ofanger and violence. 

Towards the middle ofthe rum, the emphasis switches from Nelson's character to the others, and we soon learn that most of them have problems similar to Nelson's, victims ofparental abuse or apathy. 
The ready classification ofthe character played by Anthony Michael Hall as "the brain; causes this character to con­template suicide. He's the victim oftoo much parental pressure. His main problem, the fact that he received an "F' in a shop project, may seem Light when compared to the cigar burns on Nelson's arm, but his failure almost kills him. A foil for him is "the athlete," played by Emilio Estevez, also the victim ofparen­tal overdrive. His family is so obsessed with his winning that he wishes to be physically injured to relieve him ofthe pressure. 
The final victim ofpoor parenting is "the basket-case," enthusiastically portrayed by Ally Sheedy. This character has trouble dealing with others. At first, she ignores her fellow captives, but as she gradually begins to speak, she cloaks her personality in a string oflies. One ofthe only true statements she makes is that her parents ignore her. 
The fifth character is "the beauty," played by Molly Ringwald, who also appeared in "Sixteen Candles." This charac­ter does not complain ofapat­hetic or overbearing parents; she complains about her friends and 
how they control her life. She is 
a slave to their opinions, at one 
point even threatening to reject 
the friendship ofthe others to 
protect her image. 
Ringwald's character is impor­tant in that it saves the rum from falling from one set of stereotypes to another. Aside from her, all ofthe characters are innocent victims ofrotten parents. The fact that she's pres­sured by peers, and not parents, seems to be a deliberate attempt by Hughes to broaden the rum, . to acknowledge the fact that parents are not the sole in­fluences on the lives ofteens. And he succeeds. 
Another device to make the rum less predictable is the stormy relations between the five. They argue, they mock each other and at times they hate each other. Thus adults and teens are not drawn into oppos­ing sides. These people must learn how to relate to each other, as well as adults. 
Unfortunately, the rum tends to be melodramatic. Personality disorders are overblown. For example, it's hard to believe that an "F' in shop would lead Hall's character to contemplate suicide. And instead ofmerely telling the others about his troubled home Life, Nelson's character acts out a typical home scene, thereby overstating his point. 
The movie is generally well­acted, though. The characters are three-dimensional and are played as such. It's about time that Hollywood's prejudice against teens today was attacked in film, and Hughes does so ef­fectively. The film is wonderfully entertaining, with a short but interesting dance sequence and absorbing dialogue. The film succeeds both as a statement against common youth stereotypes and as a fun rum. 

Peter Pokorny 
Book review 
In his newest book, "Murder On High," George Kennedy weaves a suspenseful tale involv­ing an oil-rich nation in the Middle East, a wounded Arab sheik, movie stars, and a mur­derer. Although it is a novel, it does reflect some aspects of current world affairs, thus making the story more dramatic and believable. 

In the Arabian country of Qram, Qram's ruler, Prince Ibrahim, who is on the set of Kennedy's (yes, he is in his own novel) movie "Airport: Middle East," is critically wounded in an assassination attempt. For reasons ofsafety, it is decided that Prince Ibrahim must be flown as quickly as possible to a hospital he owns in Los Angeles. The only way for the rum crew to leave the country is to go along with the prince in his private plane. Also important is tpe presence ofsuch rum stars as Jimmy Stewart, Bobby Troup, andJulie London. 
Kennedy develops the suspense in the major portion of the novel, which takes place on the sheik's plane. Although all the passengers expect a normal flight, anything.but this happens · for, one by one, the passengers are being murdered. 
The situation becomes more frightful when it is found out that the plane cannot land be­cause a stop-over would endanger the sheik's life. High stakes are involved in Prince Ibrahim's fate, for it is in the United States' interest that he survives. His death woflld cause turmoil in the Middle East, espe­cially since his would-be succes­sor abhors Western standards. Here, Kennedy adeptly adds touches ofrealism to his novel. 
It is up to Mike Corby, cop­turned-actor, to find the killer. Things are becoming more and more panicky on the plane, and there doesn't seem to be any clues as to who will be the next victim. Furthermore, there does not seem to be any connection between the murders and the prince. As the film stars have almost as much celebrity as the prince, Corby's search becomes doubly difficult. The action builds up as Corby checks into the passengers' background to find leads, and consequently unearths intriguing details about their personal lives. 
When the plane finally reaches its destination, the mur­derer and motive are revealed, but the story does not end after the plane trip. Mike Corby still feels that the clues don't fit all the details, and pursues the case further; what he eventually dis­covers makes for a surprising. and satisfying climax. Kennedy, instead ofgoing for an easier ending, creates a more exciting conclusion that gives this thriller ofa novel the "big bang" its harrowing plot deserves. 

I 
r I 
I 
~ 
• 
--------------~-­
I 

Monday, March 4, 1985 -page 8





Sports Briefs 
The ND Rowing Club will hold an organizationalPotential cheerleaders and anyone Interested in meetingtomorrow at 8 p.m. in room 123 ofNieuwland Science Hall. being the leprechaun should attend a mandatory meeting today at Members must turn in raffle tickets and pay for sweats and shirts. ­
6:30 p.m. in the Chautaqua Ballroom. -The Observer The Observer 
The Notre Dame hockey banquet will be
Percentage of body fat measurements will again held tomotTOw in the Monogram Room at the ACC. Cocktails will bebe provided free by NV A today from 6: I 5 p.m. to 8:1 5 p.m. Anyone served at 6 p.m. and dinner is at 7 p.m. Tickets are $10 for Bluellne who is interested who did not have a measurement already should Club members and S11 for the general public. Tickets are availablecome to the NVA office in shorts and a short-sleeve shirt. -The at the hockey office in the ACC ( 239-5227). -The Observer
Observer 

The ND Rugby Club will be meeting for practiceSeveral SMC swimmers earned all-America status tomotTOw at 4:1 5 p.m. behind Stepan Center. Anyone who is inter­last week. The 400-yard freestyle relay team ofMegan Rafferty, Ellen ested may attend; no experience is necessary. For more information,Byme,Joyce Murtagh andJenny Pancratz set a Saint Mary's record of call Steve at 272-0828. -The Observer
3:51.87 In the NAIA Championships to gain all-America honors. Raf. ferty also became an individual all-American in the 200-yard back­Trivia night returns to "Speaking ofSports" when it stroke, breaking her own record with a time of 2:21.31. Saint Mary's airs tomOtTOw at 9 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. Valuable prizes will be was the only school in the nation with two academic all-Americans, awarded to those who call 239-6400 with the correct answers to 
Murtagh and "Anne Cushing, who owned the second-and third-best host Chuck Freeby's questions. ' The ObserverGPAs of the academic all-Americans.-The Observer 
SMC athletic commissioner applications will
Bengal Bouts tickets now are available at the Gate be available until Thursday at the Saint Mary's student activities of­I 0 ticket .,ffice at the ACC. Tickets are J3 for ringside and S2 for fice in the Haggar College Center. All student/athletes are eligible. general admission to the semifinal round and S5 and S4, For more information, contact the student activities office. -The respectively, for the finals. Two-day passes also are available at S5 for Observer adults and S3 for students.-The Obsert'er 
see BRIEFS, page 9 

Women 
continuedfrom page 12 
at the 0:57 mark put Notre Dame ahead by four, 72-68, but Evansville's Carla Hughes cut the margin to two points again 12 seconds later. Schueth appeared to put the Irish back ahead by four with 22 seconds left, but she was whistled for a questionable traveling viola­tion. 
The turnover gave the Aces a chance to send the game into overtime, but Dykstra dribbled the ball off her foot and Irish forward Ruth Kaiser picked up the loose ball to save the victory. 
Schueth, Keys and Ebben all scored in double figures for Coach Mary DiStanislao's team. Schueth finished with a game-high 22 points and I 2 rebounds, while Keys added her 1 5 points despite playing only two minutes in the first half because of foul trouble. Ebben contributed 10. 
Freshman point guard Mary Gavin picked up six assists in the game which gave her a season total of 106. 
The Ohsf'r!'er Notre Dame office. located on tht· third tloor of taFortune Studem Center. accepts classified advertising from') a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obserr•.-r Saim :'>1ary"s office. located on tht· third tloor of liaggar College Center. at-ct·pts classifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. umil -~p.m .. Mon­day though Friday Deadline for next-day dassilkds is -~ p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 c.-nts per five charac­



Classifieds 
ters t"r da ·. 
LOST: A ROUND, BROWN, LEATHER NEED RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA for 
THEY'RE COIIINGIIIII BOXERS BOXERS BOXERS ""KISS ME DAVE FLANAGAN, MAN OR MYTH? Is BASKETBALL I LOST IT AT THE ACC Spring Break. Will leave Fri or Sat. call Ed THEY'RE COIIINGIIIII I'M IRISH'" $5 BOXER SHORTS $5 ON 
that good, Flo? 

NOTICES 

LAST WEEK. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL 
x3t60. CHESTER AND ANNE SALE IN THE DINING HALLS MARCH 4 DAVE BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE AN IDIOT 
THRU 8 JUST IN TIME FOR ST. PAT'S 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-88117 FOR LOSING IT. MY NUMBER IS 1 t 18. AlDERS NEEDED TO DC AREA FOR DAY HEY T.J.-Congrats on passmg your s1ssy
SPRING BREAK-FORGET BOS & THE SUN, THE SNOW, THE TYPING AVAILABLE FOUND: money near ACC. Cail239-78t3 SAVEI3128 NIGHTLIFE, THE MOUNTAINS. SKI 
test!!! (This is a bil late. yaash.) You ah MONDAY NIGHT CLUBI! Usual Monday mahvowes beyond all rhyme and reason. 
287-4082 to identify amount and denominations. 
THE BEST THIS SPRING BREAK­Night Meeting at the usual Place Be there K1sses-The new AND improved Plenty
ASPEN, COLORADO. $397 INCLUDES 1 0:00 to 11 :00. and remembe< ... Shi· LOST: Key cha1n with 3 keys. two dorm Women P.S. Oh. by the way. Con­TRANSPORTATION, 6 DAY UFT Happens! 
gratulations on striking oil. When·s it my
WOfiDPROCE881NG keys and one small, silver trunk key. PASS, 7 NIGHTS LODGING RIGHT ON turn to drive the barge? 
27NI045 SMURF key chain says: "I'd rather be FOR SALE THE SLOPESI CALliiiKE AT 2113-3573 skiing." llf'!und please call408t. ASAP!!! 
FOfiiNFORMATION OR TO SIGN-UP. Kathy, Dorene. Karen, and Kathy: · TATE/ED/CAPTAIN TAX--Happy 23rd 
Binhday!l It's a good lhlng we lost lheStudent Avait.ble for BabywiHing -LOVE LOST:Biack and gold Cross pen between ROUND TRIP TICKETS FOR SALE·· The countdown begins-It days until take­
For Sale:BUNDY ALTO SAX--gOod con­Purdue game--now only If we had locked Kula and Doga · CaU between 7 and 9 am. Laundry Bldg. and Mornssey last Fridey 
CHEAP!!! off.
dition & indestructabl&·incl accessories·· the door!! (Blame it on the leather be--l
L1oa 283-3033 at 11 :30 a.m. --3828 Kevin $178 FROM CHICAGO TO MIAMI FOR
best offer-call Aob-3305. just couldn't help myseff.) Have a great
SPRING BREAK!!! CALL DICK OA TequilaTYPING Term papero. resume11, IaMers. 
day baby--you're not geHmg olde< (even
CHRIS AT 2289 OR 2266 NOW Kahlua manuacrip'-, Reuonable rates: Pickup & 

SPRING CLEANING Students available though your hangovers last 24 hours),Tequila
for Housecleaning! We will take on any you're geHing beHer!! Lots of love. D1.
delivery on campuseo avaJiable. Call Mrs. 
SMC Students Kahlua Schultz between 5-10 PM 277-5134. 
TASK -LARGE or small! Call Lisa Be­

Get InvolVed! Lisa
tween 7 and 9am at283-3033. RayS.· When'sthe first game? 
Join the VOTE 
KOLLMAN GENERATION
AFFORDABLE HOUSE NEAR NOTRE WINTER PARK
Applications for 1985-86 
BEAVER N1ce semi·furnlshed house, 3/4 students, DAME. TIP-TOP CONDITION. CALL SKI TRIP
Commissioner positions available 
255-3664/288·0955. NOW FOR BEST PRICE. PERFECT OPEY! OPEY! OPEYI MEETING
now through Turs. March 7 BEAVER 
FOR STUDENTS/FACULTY. 234·0465. Our Hero LivesI!I MON. 4 MARCH 7:00 UTILE THEATER
pick up at HCC. 

Nice 2 student semi·furnished house, HE IS: MUST ATIENDIUIP BEAVER 288-0955/277-3604. 74 MERCURY MONTEGO • REBUILT A guy and a jock
AHention Beautiful Women John
ENGINE,AM/FM.$650. 232·0697 A veteran of the bread wars SEX SEX SEX 
'"Holmes" Kolnik is the BIG 19 today (in 
FOR OC COIIIIISSIONER SUBLET LARGE 2BR APT. AC, DISH· Alumni'slegendary trend se«er WON'T BE PROMOTED IN WINTER 
more ways than one) I So go to 102 Dillon 
WASHER, WALK-IN CLOSETS, WAS· OLDS 98 AM/FM STEREO RUNS WELL Feared fugitive from the excise cops PARK
to wish him a Happy Birthday or call him at 
0C TOGETHER AS ONE HER AND DRYER, PETS OK, $300. X-1768 A who from Whoville BUT YOU STILL MUST ATIEND THE
3603. You won't forget II or regret it! 
RIVERSIDE DR AND ANGELA. CALL He·s sav1ng his for his husband SKI TRIP MEETING 232-4355 FOR SALE: 1980 PLYMOUTH CHAMP. He's got one pet·peeve MON. MARCH 4, 7:00 
DRUMMER NEEDED New Wave Band
GOOD GAS MILEAGE. GREAT FOR ANDTODAYOPEY IS2tll! UTILE THEATER
With PUNK Tendencies Call EPW 277­A free application lorm that gives you RUNNING AROUND TOWN. KNOWS Women of ND & SMC call our hero, Opey. acceas to more than 500,000 choice ITS WAY TO THE BARS BY HEART!! 0607 and wish him a caustic and trite binhday, 
SUMMER JOBS is yours by sending a NEED TO SELL AS SOON AS POSSI· 1248. Ask for OPEY! Don·r be afraid of II was a dark, dark night The toilet Ugh! 
stamped, setf-addreued, return en­
WANTED BLE. NEED TO FLY THE FAMILY OUT geHing V.D. from a toilet seat, or crushed was dim There was a splish, splash, velope to: Student Employment Serv1ces FOR GRADUATION!! ASKING FOR THE VOTE muscles, or scratched eye tissue, JUST splosh Oh my God, Heather's fallen in! II 205 Wendell Avenue. P1Hsf1eld, Maaa. 
HIGHEST BIDDER. YOU WON'T CALL!!! WATCH OUT TSING TAO!!I was a cool, dark night The moonlight, II 01201 REGRET IT. CALL JEFF AT 3859 OA BEAVER was dim There was a rose, a k1ss. a B1ll Oh STOP IN 128 ST. ED'S. my God, love, Moira's fallen inl HAPPY RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN BEAVER There once was a man named Bones, BIRTHDAY HEATHER AND MOIRA!! FOR SPRING BREAK CALL MARC ] LEAVE ANY TillE AFTER THURSDAY who spent his whole life on phones, he Never Change(even though evolution 4101 MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE BEAVER just lets it ring on and we call him Clingon says you must) We Love You BothI!! The 

USUAL. CALL MIKE AT z1745. as he sits back and sparks up a Gang 
DENVER!! DENVER" RIDER NEEDED 

TICKETS 
I 

FOR OC COMMISSIONER bone!....BARK4ME 
Che Guevara is alive and well and study­Indian Chief, 

LOST/FOUND 

A member of ND-SMC community to drive I NEED 2 G.A.S FOR MAROUETIE LET"S GO METROIII NY METRO CLUB ing on the ninth floor of the library. Come I'm glad we talked -let's new car to SeaHie and drive car back alter GAME • HELP ME, TIM AT 3285, MY SPRING BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS WED. see him. Viva Ia revolucionl Spnng break. Call232-0453 alter Mar. 4, DAD WILL HAVE A HEART ATIACK IF 3/6 ]7 PM 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE PA keep our thumbs up I 
Loat: Gold robe ch11n with oolid gold nug­A.M. and evenings. HE CAN'T COME UP $80 WP $85 BUS DEPARTS FRI. 3/15 Ride<s needed to Rochester. NY. Leav~ng get medal1on. P0181bly loat in the ACC AFTER CHOW BE THERE OR BE 3/14 and returning 3/24. Call Frank at Thursday night in the indoor soccer tourn­EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME AS· WANTED: Student or GA tickets for Mar· SQUAREUI 1422. Love the woman in red. 
ament near gym one Ot two upatalfa. Sen­SEMBLY WORK. FOR INFO CALL 504-queue on Wed. Please call Liz 2659. timental vaJue and reward ia offered$$$$. 646·0315 EXT. B-1938. lllound please call M1ke Viracola al 283­
4100 anytime Summer Sales Positions. Average earn~ngs $2900. Sell yellow page adve<· LOST0Grey leether JICkat at Sen1or Bar !Iaing for Notre Dame University Campus 

PERSONALS 

Friday N1ght. School ID, Kayo, and T elaphone Directory. Car necessary. No Dnvero IJcenae in the pocket. REWARD summer school students. Qualified stu­phone: 3567 dent& should call University Directories. 
1·800-334-4436, for more information and to set up an interview by March 11. RIDE,tO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN 
Ask lor Barbara Nieukrrk. LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAYfound: one pa1r of women·s gluaes out 
MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE Need Two Rlderato Tampa/Fort lly.,. USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
front of Dillon in a snow bank. II you los I a 
pair call MaH 1181 and see if they"re 
arM lor Spring BrMkfP One Wily
youro. 
...vlng Thuraday or Friday. Cell Llaa or llel at 371& or 3033A calculator found in Hayeo-Healy. II you loat one call BRUSH lo cla1m It at 1150. 
Lou, Debbla, and Terry Need riders to BOSTON, 3·15 to You, too. are loved. 
.... .......,.. 

whenever. Call Tom 1655LOST: ONE PAIR OF BLACK LEATHER SKI GLOVES BUT I DONT KNOW 
Means of Production is looking for and ad­SKI VAIL COLO SPRING BREAK CondoWHERE CALL CHRIS IF FOUND AT 1150. 
ditional vocalist. Call Pault578 sleeps 41. Ful Kitch, FAPL, Jaccuzi, Pool, 
LV M56 303-665-2700 R1ders needed to go to Florida. Daytona, Ft. Lauderdale, in luxury motor home $80 ARE YOU O.C.? (OUT OF CONTROL!I) round trip. Call Jeff '"Floch" 3467, or ELECT CURRENT O.C. COMMIS.. 
REMEMBER WHEN ..... you look thai Buger 4051. StONER TRACY (RACE) THOMAN Phywk:a book from 156A Stapan several FOR ANOTHER YEAR OF O.C. Mondays ago? Well there 11 a name in II. CALC 105 TUTOR NEEDED: WILL PAY FREEDOM! VOTE RACE 3/5/85 Checlc the brown, ln81de, lower, right $$ • START IMMEDIATELY DUE TO CCNer. It oayw Kev1n Shoa. 283-3828. I TEST NEXT WEEK. CALL SHAWN AT WASHINGTON DC BUS SIGN-UPS 
need It back. 4107 MONDAY MARCH 4TH 7-8PM ON THE 
2ND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. COSTFooNo: Asil.vEA AtNa~l.ooi<s vE·Fi~ RIDERS NEEDED. due to recent cancel· $65ROUNDTAIP ·MUST PAY AT SIGN· RAAAY VALUABLE FOUND ON 3rd lation on 2/28. ride in luxury motor home UPS 
FLOOR PANGBORN LAST WEEKEND to FlORIDA. DAYTONA, FT. CALL 2329 OA 1264 AND DESCRIBE LAUDERDALE. $80 round trip, call jeff WARD'S WARRIORS.. WARD'S WAA­
'"FlOCH'" 3467 RIOAS...WARD'S WARRIORS WARD'S FOUND: Ladie's W8lch during breakfast WARRIORS.. .WARD'S WAR· (Thuroday, 2/28) at Nonh Dming Hall. Come on. blow it all offl! NEED RIDE to RIORS...WARD"S WARRIORS WARD'S 
CaH 1101 (Gary. Jim, or Bubba) to iden­NYC/North Jersey THIS weekend. WAARIORS.. .WAAD'S WAR· 
~fy. 
Please call Susan x4286 RIORS ... WAAD"S WARRIORS 

Get personal. 
And help fight MS at the same time. 
·r------------1 
For the next week, The Observer teams up with the "Millions against MS" Coupon campaign to raise funds to combat this 
Place a classifieddisabling neurological disease. 
order by Tuesday,Just use this coupon before March 5th March 5, and receive
to save 50 cents on your next classified order ... and better yet, we'll match your savings by sending 50 cents to the fight 50¢ off against MS. 
your order. And TheYou save money, and the MS Society Observer will matchbenefits as well. And Notre Dame and your savings andSaint Mary's come a step closer to send soc to the fightwinning an MTV-sponsored concert. 
against MS. Offer ex­Hurry! Offer ends Tuesday. 
pires at 3 p.m. March 

5, 1985. Limit: one coupon per order. Minimum order: 
$1.50. 


L------------...J 

The Observer Monday, March 4, 1985 -page 9 

•y\OI'(jO~e' '0616,cP . SPRING BREAK IS NEAR!! This year tan, don't burn; prepare your skin at JM.S. Plaza'MN-HAWA"l&N 4609 Grope Rood sun tonn1ng solon . Mishawaka. IN277-7026 Can't go to Florida? Get a tan anyway in our booth, beds, or both ~  


By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
EVANSTON, Ill.-The Notre Dame men's fencing team took another step toward the national champion­ship over the weekend as the Irish qualified a maximum number of six fencers for the NCAA tournament and captured their second straight Great Lakes Championship. 
In the ACC on Saturday, the Irish hosted and won the 19th annual Great Lakes Championship tourna­ment by out fencing the Wayne State Tartans 192-187 while accumulat­ing gold medals in men's and wo­


men's foil. 
Sunday, the Irish traveled to Evanston, where they rounded out their entry in the men's NCAA fen­cing finals by placing all five oftheir fencers among the top in each ofthe three weapons. With this result, Notre Dame will be able to enter the NCAA tourney at full strength. 
"The team that will have a full complement in the the finals cer­tainly has an infinately better chance of accumulating enough points to win it," said Irish Head Coach Mike DeCicco. "Right now, I would say, on the basis ofthe people that we're talking about, that Notre Dame has a shot at the final four or five spots in 


Briefs 
continuedfrom page 8

WE CAN GIVE YOU 

Six fencers qualify for tournament; Irish also garner Great Lakes title 
i DISCOVER i 
: A voeational guidanee eomputer .t 
• program designed to: 
with Spedal Guest WASP!
:• • plot out matching car~er oppor-•• 
Saturday, March 23, 8:00 pm
: tunities and the training that is : 
Notre Dame A.C.C. : necessary : R......,""~''d seats $12.50•••Genera1Admission $11.50 
• • provides information about different •: graduate, law and professional 
•

• schools •
•: • pinpoints colleges/universities ac-•• 
• cording to GRE scores, tuition and : • location • 
: The DISCOVER program Is loeated In : : the Counselingand Psyehologieal • 
+ Serviees Centerat239·7336 or in the : 
• Career and Plaeement Serviees Center + nclcet. OIHIUable at the ACC Bo:. OJflce, Select Sear•. Select Boberuon'•· The Elkhart Truth, .I.B.'a Jlf..Jc: Shop (LaPorte}, 
World Bec:orcb (Go•hen}, llfu•lc: Jlfaglc: (Bento11 Harl>or}, Night Wlllda...(llf,.haUIGica and Nllea}, St..loaeph Ba11lr (llfaln 
: at .Z39·.S.ZOO. Interested students should : 
Ofllc:e}, and Karma RecorcJ. (Fl. Wayne}.
: eall either loeation for an appoint· • 
+ ment. + 
* 


the country. How well we do, however, depends upon how well we do that day." 
En route to their seventh Great Lakes Championship as a team, the Irish were lead by outstanding per­formances on the part ofsophomore foilist Charles Higgs-Coulthard and freshman foilist Molly Sullivan. 
Higgs-Coulthard, the defending national champion in the foil, out­lasted Wayne State's Stephan Chauvel in a fence-off by a 5-4 mar­gin and gained an automatic berth in the NCAAs with a nice 18-1 record. 
"Charles won the hard way after opening up with a loss to Mike Van­derVelden," said DeCicco. "The pressure was on him in the last bout to beat Chauvel, which he did 5-4, and again in a fence-offwhich he also won, 5-4. 
"This shows me an awful lot about his tenacity," continued DeCicco. "He just hung in there until the job that he had to get done got done." 
In women's foil, the best perfor­mance ofthe day, and perhaps ofthe year, came from the foil of Sullivan. The freshman, after going 43-4 on the year, turned in a perfect 20-0 mark against the best ofthe Midwest on her way to her first-ever Great Lakes gold. 
"I have never had a fencer who 
dominated a tournament like Molly 
did," said DeCicco. "For Molly to 
win 20 bouts-and have only 10 
touches scored against her in those 
20 bouts is to me pretty amazing. 
That was the best single perfor­
mance that I've ever seen in that 
gym." 
In the men's epee, defending na­
tional champion Ettore Bianchi of 
Wayne State took the medal with an 
impressive 14-0 mark on the day. 
In the sabre division, Giovanni Girotto outlasted Notre Dame juniors Don Johnson ( 13-2) and John Edwards ( 14-1) to take the medal and qualify for the NCAAs with a 13-2 mark. 
While the Irish were only able to 
seed one fencer through the Great Lakes tourney, they were, neverthe­less, able to realize their goal for the weekend and round out their cham­pionship entry at Northwestern yes­terday. 
Leading the way with strong performances were Johnson and Ed­wards in the sabre. The two finished first and second, respectively, and will provide the Irish with a solid entry without the services ofsenior captain Mike Janis. Janis had the fourth best Great Lakes record in the weapon but did not advance due to team limitations after going 42-3 on the season. 
"We had to make a decision of who to go with so I made a decision to go with Don and John because they, with Girotto, had in the fence­off," said DeCicco. 
In the epee, senior captain Andy Quaroni and junior Christian Scherpe finished third and fourth in Wildcat country. Quaroni went 8-7 'on Saturday to advance while Scherpe recorded a solid 12-3 mark, second only to Bianchi. 
Despite the poorscheduling, both Notre Dame and defending national champion Wayne State were able to qualify six men fencers and will now take their challenges up against the Eastern schools at the NCAA tourna­ment to be hosted by Notre Dame over spring break. 
sticking him with good jabs. Mean­while, Sassano showed some good punching power in his unanimous decsion triumph over John Rademacher. While Sassano knocked out Rademacher's mouth­piece six times, he couldn't put away the big senior who proved he could take 1 punch. 

Box Score 
Yesterday's Results Notre Dame 57, Washington 50 Washington (50) 

M FG·A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Schrempf  40  8-12  2-3  7  2  18  
Fortier  33  2-6  1-2  4  4  5  
Welp  40  7-11  2-3  10  2  16  
Damon  40  2-8  1-2  4  4  5  
Williams  7  0-0  0-0020  
Morrell  23  3-5  0-0  2  5  6  
Vidato  14  0-1  0-0  2  2  0  
Evenson  3  0-0  0-0000  
200 22-43  6-10  29  21  50  
FG  Pet  .512.  FT  Pet  -.600.  Team  

rebounds -1. Turnovers -17. Assists -11 (Schrempf 4). Technicals-Welp 2. 
Notre Dame(57) 
M FG-A FT-A R F p Barlow 33 3-10 0-2 4 3 6 Royal 38 3-6 8-8 5 3 14 Kempton 20 0-2 2-4 6 2 2 Rivers 40 6-16 9-11 5 2 21 Hicks 23 1-4 0-0 3 0 2 Beeuwsaert 4 0-0 0-0 1 0 0 Duff 3 0-0 4-5 0 0 4 Price 14 1-4 0-0 2 0 2 Dolan 23 2-4 2-3 3 5 6 Voce 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 200 16-46 25-33 29 15 57 
FG Pet .348. FT Pet -.758. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers -10. Assists -10 (Rivers 4). Technicals-none. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 29, Washington 26. Officials-Hank Nichols, Gerry Donaghy, Joe Forte (all ACC). A-11,345. 

1,500,2,000,4,000 OR 10,000 GOOD REASONS TO JOIN. 
In the Army Reserve, it is possible to get a $1,500 bonus for joining your local Reserve unit. It is possible to get a $2,000 bonus for training in certain skills or, instead, earn up to $4,000 for college. It's also possible to have up to $10,000 in federally insured student loans paid for by the Army Reserve. 
Those ore all compelling reasons to become an Army Reservist. And we haven't even talked about the skills you can learn...or the pride...or the good part­time income...or the excitement of a once-a-month Reserve weekend. 
We'd like to tell you all about it. Stop by or call: 
SGT Brennan 234-4187 
ARMY RESERVE.BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
: You are invited to worJr on f 
NVA spring sports entry deadlines have 
been set. Spring events include men's interhall baseball, men's inter­hall softball, women's interhall softball, graduate men's softball, wo­men's interhall soccer, men's interhall soccer and men's interhall floor hockey. The deadline to register team rosters at the NVAoffice for all of these events is Wednesday, March 13. For more informa­tion, contact the NVAoffice at 239-6100.-The Observer 
An aerobiCS inStruCtOris beingsought by NVA for the 1985-86 school year. Anyone who is interested may fill out an application at the NVA office in the ACC. For more information, call 239-6690.-The Observer 
Vignone now faces John "The Captain" Uhll, who won a unani­mous decision over Fred "Earth 



Bouts 
continuedfrom page 12 

Dog" Ahlholm. TKO over Brian Keenan. Vignone 
landed a couple of flurries in the The other heavyweight semifinal 
opening round to stagger Keenan, pits seniors Ken Munro against Dave 
before a pair of lefts to the head Sassano. Munro won a unanimous 
ended the bout 35 seconds into decision over Kevin O'Shea by 
round two. staying away from his larger foe and 
* •
Sunshine Promotions presents 
The Observer Monday, March 4, 1985-page 10 

Irish look like a tournament team 

Phil Wolf 
Assistant Sports Editor 
"I said, 'You're playing a first-round game against an NCAA team at home.' That's how we approached the game, and that's how we went after it." 
That's how Digger Phelps described his team's motivation in yesterday's 57-50 victory over Wash­ington. Ofcourse, it wasn't a tournament game, and Notre Dame isn't even guaranteed a berth in the tournament yet, but the Irish played like a tournament-bound team. 
A tournament-bound team? With 27 percent shooting in the first half? With the team's leading scorer getting only six points? With a seven-minute scoreless streak in the second half? 
Sure, Washington coach Marv Harshman said: "They're a logical choice." 
Yes, we all saw the same game yesterday.lt is quite true that the Irish played poorly to start the game and some players had bad games, and that is not what makes an NCAA tournament team. But Notre Dame did something a tournament team must do: it hung on until the end. 
"When we kept mixing defenses, I just thought sooner or later we can't keep playing as bad as we're playing," Phelps said. "We weren't playing well at all, and it was just sooner or later..." 
It turned out to be later in the first half, when jim Dolan's free throws tied the game at 22 and a hus­tling Irish defense created several turnovers at the other end. Donald Royal powered inside and helped Notre Dame to a three-point halftime lead. 
From that point, the Irish looked like a tourna­ment team. They didn't quit. They didn't allow the Huskies to get the lead again. After so many times this season when the Irish failed to bury a team once they got ahead, they showed that they are capable of finishing well. 
Notre Dame was able to maintain its lead the way a good team docs: by holding the ball, making free 
throws and not committing stupid fouls. You know, 
the kind that allow a team to get back into the game. 
"We've been doing that pretty good, lately," 
Phelps joked. "With the lead, fouling the other team 
so they can shoot one and one. So I told them to foul 
today, and the guys didn't foul." 
Another thing the Irish were good at yesterday 
was coveringfor each other. Acouple players had off 
days, but there were others there to fill the impor­
tant roles. 
"I thought Kenny (Barlow) had another bad 
game," Phelps said, "but so what? The other guys 
came through." 
Matt Beeuwsaert and Gary Voce came off the bench in the first half to give Barlow and Dolan a rest, and Notre Dame's level ofplay did not suffer for it. Starters Kempton and Royal picked up the slack for Barlow, and late in the game, Kempton came in for Dolan to grab four key rebounds and hit some free throws. Dan Duff also came in late in the game to play his role: holding the ball and hitting free­throws. 
Good defense, everyone playing his role, a strong finish. These are the characteristics of an NCAA tournament team. 
Especially finishing strongly. For a long time it seemed the Irish were not capable of playing well down the stretch in a game. And much of the time, they were in close games where finishing well was vital. 
"We have a tendency to start out slow sometimes," David Rivers observed yesterday. "After a while, though, we start to get in a groove and things start to go well for us." 
So if things are starting to go well for the Irish, does that mean they can have a strong finish to the season? If everyone continues to play his role they can. 
"It's late in the season right now," Barlow pointed out, "and the guys realize what they have to do down the stretch." 
Yes, the guys know what they have to do. They know what they're shooting for: the NCAA tourna­ment. And ifthey fall short; ifthey go to the NIT; how would that feel? 
"Very depressing," Rivers says. 

Bi':l BralhersjBi':l Sisters 

CHICAGO TRIP 
Saturday, March 9th 
Transportation provided all expenses paid 
CALL JOHN at 277-0607 BY TOMORROW IF INTERESTED 
The Place To Be... 
In the coming ye•ra, aervlce Induatrlea will repreaent one of the f•ateat-growlng aectora of the Amerlc•n economy. If you're atudylng m•n•gement, you're le•rnlng the akllla that will be eaaentlel to aervlce lnduatry productivity. 
The Place To Be... 
Sage Corporation 11 the netlon'a Ieeder In foodaervlce. There'a no beHer place to apply your management degree then Sage Foodaervlce for college• end unlveraltlea, hoaplt•ls or reateurents. 

The Place To Be... 

Find out more about • $1 billion foodservlce Ieeder whose plans for further growth rel•te directly to the career opportunity you're earning In your m•negement studies. Sage representatives will be at Notre Dame on March 11th. Check with • Placement Office to arrange your Interview. 

Meet Saga Corporation Monday, March II 
Equel Opportunity Employer M/F 

Men 
continuedfrom page 12 
for most ofthe first half, leading by as 
many as seven points, but Notre 
Dame managed to stay close despite 
shooting a dismal 2H percent from 
the field and getting no points from 
leading-scorer Ken Barlow. 
In the final minute of the first half, 
with the Huskks on top, 26-24, 
Royal laid in the follow of a Rivers 
miss and was fouled by Paul Fortier. 
Royal finished off the three-point 
play, and gave Notre Dame a 27-26 
lead. As it turned out, the Irish never 
trailed again. 
"Today we just got off to a slow start, but as time went on we got into our rhythm and some shots started to fall for us," said Rivers. "After the first half, we felt that it was going to come around, because we were playing poorly and yet we were still in the game. When we were up at halftime without playing that well, we thought that things would go well in the second half for us." 
Defensively, things did go well for 
the Irish, well enough that they were 
able to overcome a scoreless 
drought ofoverseven minutes in the 
second half. The Huskies managed 
only six points over that span, and 
Notre Dame recovered to hold off a 
late Washington rally with four Dan 
Duff free throws. 
"I thought our defense really worked well," said Phelps. "Washington was playing very well, and they had to have a letdown, whereas we weren't playing well at all, and our defense did it for us. And that's what I told our players, that if we're having trouble with shooting percentages, then we've got to win with defense. And I thought what won the game for us was our defense." 
And what of the latest offensive woes for Notre Dame, a team that has hit less than 50 percent of its shots from the field in each ofits last three games? 
"I think we're getting good shot position," said Phelps. "It's just that we're not shooting the ball well. But in this game we just stayed with it. Our defense helped us out, espe­cially in the end ofthe first half when we went to the zone and Washing­ton hit just one of seven shots. That allowed us to do the things that we had to do to score the points and go up at halftime." 
With key games coming up against Marquette and Dayton, however, the Irish will need an of­fense that can stand on its own two feet. 

COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
The O'Neil Lecture Series 
Speakers: William E. Besl Chairman, National Construction Employers Council Washington, D.C. 
James R. Baxter President, national Construction Employers Council Washington, D.C. 
TOPIC: 
New Dlreetfons In Industrial B.elatfons 
DATE: Wednesday, March 6, 1985 TIME & PLACE: 
12:15 p.m. Faculty Seminar Board Room, Hayes-Healy Building 
All memiJers of the Unfversft31 of Notre Dame Faeult31 are Invited. 
4:15p.m., lecture and panel discussion Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Room 122) Faculty, students, and the public are invited ___. 



INARMY NURSING YOU 
KEEPADDINC NEW SKIW. 
It's important that you're treated with the dignity 
and respect accorded an Army officer. And it's 
important to work in a modern medical center, 
earn a top salary, and travel. But perhaps the 
most important aspect of Army Nursing is the 
dedication to education. In Army Nursing you 
have the opportunity to attend professional con­
ferences, pursue advanced degrees and study a 
variety of nursing specialties. 
Ifyou're a student working on a BSN or if you 
already have a BSN and are registered to practice 
in the United States or Puerto Rico, look into 
Army Nursing. Stop by or call us at: 
SGT. Bergstrom 
Call collect '815) 727-9120 
ARMYNURSECORPS. BEALLYOU CAN BE. 

~4[)cJ[(l~--------------------------------M•o-n-da_y_,M_~_c_h_4_,1_9_85---pa_g_e_ll
Doonesbury 


U66Hr!f THERE'S THAT SMELLAGAlNf 
GarryTrudeau 
Campus · 
•4:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Environmental Concerns Organization, Library ofthe CSC. 

•5 
-7 p.m. -Senior Formal Bid Sales, LaFortune, S56. 

•6 
p.m.-Student Senate Meeting, Senior Bar. 

•6:30 
-7:30 p.m. -Senior Formal Tuxedo Fit­tings, LaFortune. 

• 
7 p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Tree ofthe Wooden Clogs," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•
7 & 9 p.m. -Social Concerns Film, "The Busi­ness ofAmerica," Center for Social Concerns. 

•7:15 
p.m. -AIESEC Meeting, Hayes Healy Auditorium. 


KevinWalsh 
•8 p.m. -Thomas T. McAvoy Lecture, "The Evan­gelization ofWestern Europe: Recent Answers and 
IT's 73EEN HAN61 'PRETTYHARMLES5 I 
New Suggestions," J. N. Hillgarth, Pontifical Insti­
tute ofMedieval Studies, Sponsored by History De­partment, Room 122 Hayes Healy. 
OVER CAMRJS ALL EH MELVIN? 
~ARJ TH006H ITS 
I
PRETTY HARMLESS. 
TV Tonight 
Bloom County Berke_~reathed The Far Side Gary_Larson 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 35 Coastal bird 61 After expenses 13 Waited 1 Fla. city 36 Sew loosely 62 Necessities patiently 6 Fr. explorer 37 Talk 63 Couples 18 Muse number 
La-38 Bag 22 Malay canoe 
40 Lawyer: abbr. 23 Diamond 11 Occupation 41 Barton or Bow DOWN squares 14 Ventilated 43 Metrical foot 1 Alliance 24 Cockatoo 15 Thoughts acronym 25 Soapwort 16 Swiss canton 45 Food dealer 2 102 17 Easy target 46 Recreation 3 Columnist 26 Ill-tempered 19 Wildly amusing center Buchwald 27 Tennis name 
48 Struck lightly 29 Endures 20 Zoological 49 Writerof 31 Panama Canal 
4 Paroles 
pointed part boys' stories 5 Containing locks 21 Butter or 50 Sports palace animal fat 33 Street show polisher 6 Omens 34 Oscarfor 
23 Fierce monkeys 51 Apron part 7 Egyptian lizard one 26 Lingered 
52 Jalopy, old 36-Ruth 28 Stir up style 8 Romanian coin 39 Jackson or 29 Exercise 
58 DOE 9 Resin • Smith 30 Fry quickly 59 Culvert 10 Glacial ridges 41 Cowered 31 Deepcut opening 11 Certain toy 42 Within a given 32 Taj Mahal site 60 Pixies 12 Papal veil area 
6:00p.m. 6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 
:z:z 22 Eyewitness News 
:Z8 Newswatch 28 
16 NBC Nightly News 
:z:z CBS Evening News :Z8 ABC World News Tonight 16 M"A•s•H :z:z Three's Company 
:Z8 Jeopardy 
16 Barney Miller :z:z WKRP in Cincinnati :Z8 Wheel of Fortune 
16 TV's Bloopers & Practical jokes 
:z:z Scarecrow & Mrs. King 
:Z8 2Hardcastle & McCormick 
34 Wonderworks 
16 Movie 
:z:z Kate & Allie 
:Z8 Movie -Kicks 
34 American Playhouse 
:z:z Newhart 
:z:z Cagney & Lacey 
34 Death and the Mistress of Delay 
16 NewsCenter 16 
:z:z 22 Eyewitness News 
:Z8 Newswatch 28 
34 Body Electric 
16 Tonight Show 
2:Z Simon & Simon/McMillan :Z8 ABC News Nightllne 34 Movie -Bird of Paradise :Z8 I.ovr: Connection 16 Latr: Night With David Letterman :z:z Nillhtwatch 


7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 10:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
lZ:OOa.m. 1Z:30a.m. :Z:OOa.m. 
44 Arthurian 50 Parroted magician 53· Wind dir. 
45 Valley 54 Malt drink 
46 Hut 55 AGabor 

47 Matching 56 Actor Beatty 
48 Fuses material 57 Donkey 
Friday's Solution 


Monday, March 4, 1985 -page 12
SRorts 
Irish hold lead, muscle to 57-50 win over Huskies 
By LARRY BURKE top, '57-50, in a hard-fought, physical ment, and ifwe're going to still get a Sports Writer game that gave the Irish coach his bid we've got to beat Washington. 300th career victory. David Rivers Beating Washington really helps our 
Yesterday's game between Notre scored a game-high 21 points for the situation." Dame and Washington was played winners, and Donald Royal added The Irish obviously helped them­under what could be called 14. selves in the win column with yes­"simulated NCAA Tournament con­"That's how we talked about this terday's victory, but they did little ditions." After all, there was a fired­game going into it," said Phelps of that would open any eyes statisti­up, capacity crowd of 1 I ,34'5 on the tournament atmosphere of yes­cally. Notre Dame shot just 35 per­hand in the ACC, two probable terday's contest. "You're playing cent from the field for the afternoon, tournament teams participating, and Washington, and in my opinion, while the Huskies hit 5 I percent. plenty at stake for both teams. Washington, Southern Cal, and The Irish scored the majority of 
And while the Irish didn't turn in Arizona are the minimum that will their points from the free throw line: one of their better performances of get NCAA bids from the Pac-10. We for the game, Notre Dame had only the season, Digger Phelps' squad still have to prove that we can compete 16 field goals, but stayed on top by played well enough to come out on against teams in the NCAA Tourna-sinking 25 of 33 foul shots. 
Women's basketball team closes in on NSC title 

shooting an impressive 72 per­
cent from the field, mostly from 

EVANSVILLE. Ind. -The Notre long range, in the ·second half. Dame women's basketball team The Evansville outburst wiped moved within one step ofclinch­out a 30-26 Notre Dame halftime ing the North Star Conference lead and put the host team up by championship yesterday by hold­five, '51-46, with nine minutes ing off a hot-shooting Evansville remaining in the game. The Irish team, 72-70. quickly rebounded with a spurt 
The victory improved the Irish of their own, outscoring the record to 11-1 in the conference Aces, 1 0-2, over the next two ( I R-H overall) and put the team minutes. in position to win the title Wed­When Trena Keys scored two nesday when second-place of her 15points on a jumper with Dayton ( I 1-2) visits the ACC for 7:41 remaining, to put Notre a 4 p.m. game. Dame up by one, 54-53, the Irish 
Yesterday's win over the Aces were ahead to stay. They went in was much tougher than expected front by as many as six points, but for Notre Dame, which had Evansville, behind the scoring of crushed Evansville, 74-53, in a guards Shelly Adlard and Barb game earlier this season. The Dykstra, pulled back to within Aces have proven this year to be two with just over a minute left. much better when playing on Lynn Ebben's 18-foot jumper their home court and made a 
see WOMEN, page 8
strong bid to upset the Irish by 

Because their shooting was off, the Irish had to concentrate on playing physical defense~ and hold­ing their own on the boards against a larger Washington team. Notre 
Dame accomplished both of these goals, as Royal, Tim Kempton, and Jim Dolan turned in solid defensive performances against Washington's 6-9 Detlef Schrempf and 7-0 Chris Welp. Schrempf finished with 18 points and Welp had 16, but neither inflicted the type of damage of which they are capable. 
"We felt coming into the game that if we could force Schrempfinto a full-court offensive game, then that would take him away from shots," explained Phelps. "I think the fact that he only had 1 2 shots, whereas he's capable of having 20 or 22 shots, is something we caused by ex­tending our defense. We felt that that was the key for us defensively. Worrying about both the big men, Welp and Schrempf, was tough, and I thought we also did an excellent job ofcontrolling their other players on the floor." 
Washington controlled the Irish 
see MEN, page 10 


Fighters advance in quarterfinals of annual Bengal Bouts 
By CHUCK FREEBY earned a split decision over Pete Tiernan in a ness and conditioning to wear down his op­receiving standing-eights in the first and 
Sports Writer battle that set the tone for the evening. Tier­ponent. second rounds, McNamara was put away by an nan opened as the aggressor in the first round, Kelly now will face fellow Grace resident Antrobus left hook to the head followed by a landing several body punches in the clinches. Ed Borneman in the semifinals Tuesday night. combination to the face. 
Some things never really change. Rogers came back though, drawing blood Borneman earned a 3-2 split decision over In the other I6'5-pound matchup, Steve 
Sure, the Bengal Bouts are now in Stepan from his opponent with a couple of shots to Kevin Duggan in a fight which started slowly Freschi adavanced to the semifinals with a Center instead ofthe fieldhouse, but the quar­the nose in round two. Rogers remained in but wound up finishing in a furious Pier 6 unanimous decision over Matt Langenderfer. terfinals of the '5'5th annual intracollegiate control throughout the third round to gain brawl which brought the spectators to their Langenderfer came out quickly, controlling boxing tournament Sunday night proved the the victory. feet.. the first round with his right jab. However, boxers can still give -and take -a punch. That The other semifinal at I45 pits Lezynski Freschi came back with a smart strategy, fact was proven as early as the first bout and A showdown between a pair of experi­against Tom Newell. Newell used a crushing working on the body ofhis opponent with the lasted throughout the night, as a paid crowd of enced boxers is shaping up at 145 pounds, as right hand to earn a unanimous decision over right jab before connecting with a right hook I, '513 fans was brought to its feet often by Ed "Munster" Kelly and Tom "The Bull" Bob Harig. Meanwhile, Lezynski staggered to the head late in round two to take control of several hard-hitting fights. Lezynski appear to be on a collision course to Mark Cotter throughout his fight, before the the fight. 
There was only one quarterfinal matchup in the finals. Kelly won a unanimous decision referee stopped the contest at the I :45 mark If you didn't make it back to your seat im­
the 140-pound division, as Marshall Rodgers over Tony Peszka by using his superior quick-of the third round when a Lezynski left mediately after the intermission, you missed lacerated, and possibly fractured, Cotter's Grant "Gale Force" Gailius's knq_ckout ofGreg nose. Rowe at I75 pounds. Gailius came out swing­
If last night's fights are any indication, the ing with both fists, but couldn't land a punch. I 50-pound bracket may be one ofthe hardest That is, until Rowe walked into a left uppercut hitting divisions. In one quarterfinal, Jim 31 seconds into the match and dropped like a "Quick" Silver earned the right to face Boxing lead balloon to the canvas. That ended the Club president Mike Latz tomorrow night fight, as Rowe was sent to the infirmary for with a unanimous decision over Mike "The observation. Rock" Roque. Silver managed to chisel away at Gailius will meet Tim Lyons in the semi­Roque using a hard right hand to connect to finals. Lyons earned a unanimous decision the head. over Jim Ackerson in a close fight. Ackerson 
The best bout of the evening came at the was the aggressor early, but the "Jersey Devil" other I50-pound quarterfinal, where Todd used hard right hands to the head to get the Lillie won by TKO over Steve Hillsman in a better ofhis opponent. donnybrook. Momentum seemed to swing as The other semifinal bout at I75 pounds will frequently as puncbes, as both fighters feature a pair ofoff-campus representatives, as received standing-eight counts in the second Kevin "Hammer" Hamer will face Dave "Pac­round. Lillie took control, however, as a pair Man" Packo. Hamer advanced with a split of right-hand uppercuts by "The Grappler" in decision over Biii"Red" Rossiter in a fight that round three ended the bout at the I: I2 mark. resembled a weather forecast -fair with oc­
At 155, Ed Reilly stopped Tom Brennan at casional flurries. Hamer's aggressiveness 0:4I of the third round. Reilly had problems during those flurries was enough to win the getting through the gangly Brennan early in fight. Meanwhile, Packo moved on by gaining the bout, but a right hand to the head forced a a unanimous decision over Jay Lavelle. Packo standing-eight count to be issued to Brennan used his previous Bengal Bout experience at the end of round two. Reilly came out well, taking control over the stronger Lavelle
' 
looking for the kill in round three, and he got by using his quickness and following his it with a flurry ofpunches in the corner. punches. 
A pair of fighters with colorful nicknames The heavyweights closed out the evening squared offin the quarterfinals at I65 pounds, with some hard-hitting bouts. Jim "The Un­as Don "Transpo" Antrobus won by TKO over known" Vignone will not be that way for long
Ed "Munster" Kelly, left, won this bout 
Joe "Tank" McNamara. "Transpo" was on ifhe comes up with many more fights like his 
with Tony Peszka tn the 145-pound 
schedule in this one, as he shelled the "Tank"
weight class as the 55th annual Bengal see BOUTS, page 9 
with left jabs to set up his corpbinations. After 






