
SM(~ ·elections-page 3 


Hall Presidents' Council Chainnan Chris night in Badin. The HPC discussed studentgovern­Tayback (left), and other HPC members get com­ment election requirements, and the new rule fortable as he conducts a council meeting last prohibiting endorsements by any hall president. 

End4lrsement rules clarified at meeting 
By SCOTT BEARBY Walsh President Gretchen StaffReporter Froehlke said she "didn't know if girls would use it." If the project is 
The elimination of hall president not considered feasible, Lewis Hall endorsements of student govern­President Debbie Doherty sugges­ment candidates was clarified by ted OBUD look into other safety pro­Ombudsman spokesman Maher grams, like possibly working for the Mouasher at last night's Hall Presi­installation of more lights on dents' Council mc:eting. campus. 
OBUD election officials were told Also on the HPC agenda were ND­
1 to strictly interpret the campaign SMC Right to Life representatives 1 rules, including those concerning Bill Ryder and ProfessorJanet Smith. 1 campus endorsements, at a Student The group is looking for volunteers 1 Senate meeting last Wednesday. to work at their phone-a-thon Feb. 1 The strict interpretation includes 18 to 21 and again from Feb. 2 5 to no endorsements from any official 28. Interested people should talk to ~ campus organizaltion, including the their dorm representative. As a spe­
1
HPC. Mouash(:r told hall presi­cial incentive, a free spring break 
~ 
dents they cannot publicly support a trip to Florida will be given to the 
1
particular candidate in any way. volunteer who collects the most Wearing buttons, hanging posters, pledges. 
1 
and touring candidates around Proceeds for the phone-a-thon dorms are all forbidden. will go to the South Bend Wgwen's 
The stricter enforcement Care Center, a counseling center for 1 provoked reaction from the hall women with problem pregnancies. presidents. Many, such as Badin To date, the center has assisted more 1 President Lori Kluczyk and Dillon than 800 women. With a $40,000 Co-President Bernie Pellegrino, pledge goal, the organization says it 1 questioned the feasibility ofthe rule, hopes to establish a house for single since they said they feel hall presi­mothers to stay. dents are more aware of a can­didate's qualifications. Kluczyk The December/January Sowder further stated the hall presidents Award for outstanding hall spirit was should have a voice so other stu­given to Breen-Phillips Hall for their 
Lack of student diversity discussed 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST  "The problem is often lack of di·  The Senate also discussed faculty  
StaffReporter  versity in the applicant pool itself,'.  fringe benefits and salaries at both  
he said.  the associate professor level and the  
The  lack  of diversity  of Notre  Rooney commented that the com·  professor level.  
Dame students and how to attack  mon religious and socio-economic  Student  representative  Pat  
the problem of homogeneity were  backgrounds of many Notre Dame  McCauley, with Academic Commis­ 
discussed  at  the  Faculty  Senate  students often negatively influence  sioner Bruce Lohman and Executive  
meeting last night at the Center for  the decisions ofstudentsfrom differ­ Coordinator  Doug  Wurth,  pre­ 
Continuing Education.  ent backgrounds.  sented a proposal to increase inter­ 
One  senate  member  proposed  action betweenfaculty and students.  
"Every effort is made to promote  that the problem of the conceived  
the acceptance ofstudents who can  homogeneity of the student body  "We  are  concerned  with  the  
add diversity to the University," said  was possibly caused by the faculty's  improvement  of  intellectual  life,  
Kevin  Rooney, director of admis­ level ofdiversity rather than the stu­ both inside and outside the class­ 
sions.  dents'.  room," McCauley said.  

dents will be more aware ofthe can­didates. 
HPC Chairman Chris Tayback summed up the presidents' general disagreement by stating, "The rule needs to be worked on, and some changes will undoubtedly be made in the coming y•ear. Until then, we have to live with it." 
Henry Sienkiewicz, OBUD direc­tor, also talked to the council about the feasibility ofa campus escort ser­vice for ND-SMC females. A similar service, meant to deal with potential security problems, disbanded three years ago because of lack of OBUD manpower. Although OBUD will be doing further studies, the hall presi­dents displayed some skepticism about the success of the program. 
Christmas formal, Christmas week celebration and hall lecture series. Walsh and Badin halls both received honorable mention. 
Last week's HPC-sponsored Blow­off for a While Club was regarded a great success by Tayback and the council. Tomorrow night the BOFA Club will be sponsored by Pangborn Hall from 9:30 to 11:30 p.m. Tayback encouraged all students to attend and keep the program a suc­cess. 
Feb. 17 marks the initiation of an HPC-sponsored lecture series. Uni­versity President Father Theodore Hesburgh will be either addressing the role ofleadership in avoiding nu­clear war or having an open forum. 


Student response weak on proposed curriculum changes 
ByBOBVONDERHEU)E 
Edltor-ln-Cblef 
There have been no student demonstrations on the steps of the Administration Building, no heated Student Senate debates, and little ifany action by the Hall Presidents' Council. 
But this issue -proposed changes in the University curric­ulum -is perhaps the biggest of the year, student government cabinet officials privately con­cede. 
A set of proposals now before Notre Dame's Academic Council for consideration urges substan­tial changes in the 13-course core curriculum. One proposal would require an additional course in fine arts or literature and another course in history or social science. The University is also considering streamlining the two-semester requirement in philosophy into a single, year­long course. 
Yet as ofthis week's meeting of the Academic Council, the only formal response from student government has been a six-page report from Academic Commis­sioner Bruce Lohman. 
Lohman, a sophomore, had asked earlier for a written reac­tion from each member of the Student Senate, but no one responded. Cathy David, student body vice president, set last Friday as the deadline for responses solicited from the sen­
ate,  but  Lohman  said  all  he  
received  was  "a  bunch  of  no  
shows."  

"They (the senators) might have questioned whether it was their job or responsibility,'' he said. "I feel dramatically that this issue is important enough that they should have responded." 
"People don't want to deal with academic issues,'' David said. "They talk instead about the social problem or the lack ofcul­tural activities." 
Last December, Lohman asked each hall president for a reaction to the curriculum proposals, which are outlined in a 17-page report issued last spring by the University Curriculum Commit­tee. Six ofthe 24 responded. 
In addition, Lohman requested 
each hall president ask three 
"intriguing, interesting or fasci­
nating students to read the docu­
ment and respond to it." Lohman 
received three responses. 
"That's nine out of 96 re­
quests,'' he said this week. 
Lohman also sought reactions from each hall's academic com­missioners, about two-thirds of whom responded. 
Seven student representatives, including Lohman, attend the Academic Council meetings. There is one studentfrom each of the four colleges, MBA and Law School represematives and a rep­resentative of the Graduate Stu­dent Union. 
About the meetings, Lohman said, "Every student is fully respected as being one member with one vote." 
Lohman submitted his prelimi­nary report on Dec. 10 to Associ­ate Provost Father Edward Malloy. In it Lohman writes, "Recognizing it is impossible for me to obtain response from every student, I am confident that I have r•eceived enough responses to enable me to write a student government response which is representative of wide range of student objections and compliments." 
David said an official report will be forthcoming from student government. 
Parts of Lohman's report fol­low: 
•Ma1hemadcs. "I feel the pro­posal for mathematics is discouraging. The link between the two semesters of a math se­quence merits that consecutive semesters should be strongly en­couraged. Non-consecutive semesters will foster an 'indifference' attitude." 

•Addidooal 
course require­ments. "The addition of a fine arts/literature requirement is ap­plauded . . . The addition of an­other history/social science is also applauded. The argument that the history department would have an unacceptable load if there was a required formal course in history is very dis­couraging." 

•Pbllosophy 
and Theology. "The reformation of the philoso­phy and theology requirements are encouraging. The length of time that is allowed to complete the philosophy requirement, however, is a topic of some 


see COUNCIL, page 5 


----~-----------~--------------~~----~--­
The Observer Wednesday, February 6, 1985-page 2 



In Brie£ ·, 
Anny ROTC Cadet Jean Schommer, a senior business major at Notre Dame, has been selected as the winner of the Depart­ment ofIndiana Reserve Officers Association Award for the 1984-85 school year. Chosen as the Indiana ROA's outstanding cadet, Schom­mer will go to Washington from Feb. 17 to 20 as the ROA's guest at their National Mid-Winter Conference. She competed with cadets from 1 I ROTC departments, five of which are components ofother services. -The Observer 
Walter Nugent, appointed Andrew v. Tackes Professor ofHistory at Notre Dame last year, has been honored by the Henry E. Huntington llbrary in San Marino,Calif., who named him the first Mead Distinguished Research Fellow of American Civilization and Culture. Nugent hegins the six-month term in April and will return to teach at Notre Dame in the fall. He is a specialist in 19th and early 20th century U.S. history as well as American frontier history. He joined Notre Dame faculty in September after 21 years ofteaching at Indiana University. -The Observer 
Find missing children, a growing campaign, is newly-supported by the resources ofa soft drink bottler. Abarta Inc. of Pittsburgh, which bottles Coca-Cola and other soft drinks in Beth­lehem, Pa., Cleveland and Buffalo, N.Y., is placing photographs and descriptions of missing children on pop bottles distributed in those cities. Three sizes of pop bottles wearing paper aprons carrying the information will appear on store shelves beginning tomorrow. Abarta President John Bitzer said the idea came from a Chicago public relations firm. Several Midwestern milk producers are pictur­ing missing children on milk containers, and the Chicago Transit Authority is publicizing the children on buses and commuter trains.­AP 
Approximately 1,000 hours of recordings from a microphone planted in a reputed mobster's car will enable the government to seek indictments against the heads ofall five or­ganized crime families in New York, NBC News reports. TheJustice Department is preparing to ask for indictments on racketeering and conspiracy charges as a result of the recordings, according to the report Monday on "NBC Nightly News." NBC said the microphone was planted in a blackJaguar used by the reputed boss ofone of the city's five crime families. It said the investigation showed the mob was involved in the garbage disposal business, construction, labor unions, loan shacking, pornography and stolen cars. -AP 
Snow and ice that acCUtllulated during last weekend's freeze collapsed the rootS ofchicken houses in northern Mississippi and Alabama, killing more than three million birds, state officials said Monday. In northern Alabama alone, estimates put the number of dead chickens at more than three million, said Holley Midgely, a spokesman for the Alabama Farm Bureau. "It may have been more," Midgely said. "The companies that own the birds are still counting. There's no telling what the final figure might be." Chicken farming is an S800 million-a-year industry in Alabama, he said.-AP 
Of Interest 
The Substance Abuse Task Force of Mishawaka is sponsoring a talk by the director of the Indiana Youth-Centered Drunk Driving Prevention Program, Walt Aldorisio. The speech is scheduled for 7 this evening at the Mishawaka-Penn Main IJbrary.­The Observer 

Weather 
Hllllll> day weather will feature a chance o1flurries with highs in the low 20s. Cloudy and cold tonight with lows near 10. A 30 percent chance of light snow tomorrow with highs near 20. -AP 

The Observer 
The Observer ( t:SI'!. ~99 l-4000) is published Monday throuRb Friday and on home f<x>thall Saturdays, except 
during exam and vacation periods. lbe 
Observer is puhlhhcd hy tht· students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subsniptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( JlO per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Hox Q, Notre Dame.lndiana 46SS6. 
The Observer is a memher of The Assocl.ated Press. All reproduction rillbL• are reserved. 
To<.lay's i~!'!Ue wa~ produced hy: 
Production Consu/tant ........ Steve Foster 
Design t'ditor................................ Andy Saal Design Assistaiii ..................... Aiex Peltzer Layout Staff...................... Tracy Schindele Typesetters ................................. Vic and Ted 
News I:.'dttor ............................ Tes..'i Guarino 
Copy Editor ....................................... Uz Flor .\ports Copy lid/lor...... Eric Scheuermann Viewpoint Copy Editor............ Mary Ellen Viewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown Features .Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Ft'Cltures Layout ................... Andi Schnuck ND Day Editor ............................. Earl Baker SMC Day Editor............ Maggie O'Connell Ad Design .................................. Fred Ndson Photographer .......................... Paul Kramer 


Observable characteristics of the Notre Dame study animal 
Many things are necessary in the course of college education. You have to buy books, you have to pay tui­tion you have to go to some classes and you have to do some studying. 
Some studying. 

There are people who interpret this every possible way. Some interpretations have names and others do not. Some seem like a great deal of fun while others appear monotonous and very dull. Everyone knows people in each category. 
One classic is the throat. These people are steadfast characters who have tremendous amounts of will power. Everyday they are in the same place doing the same thing. 
Maybe it is the library. Maybe it is the hall study lounge. Maybe it is a dark corner where no-one will ever find them. They are always there. They have the same routines. At least you know where they are. Just 
do not disturb. Another classic is the early decision involves blow-off. This person has a notifying roomates. They definite routine as well. 
have two classic reactions. 
They go to the same general Either they sympathetically area every night and stay up wish you the best or selfishly very late, much like the demand you go elsewhere throat. However Corby's so they at least can get some 
and the Memorial llbrary sleep. have some definite differ­It is also good to find ences. It is tough to get someone to share the expe­served in the library. rience with. Having some­
Blow-offs have a reputa­one to talk to at 4 a.m. makes tion for their antics and of­late-night nonsense less ten become cult heroes. senseless. (The last few Many would like to emm­words exemplify late night 
ulate their care-free attitude mentality.) toward an education costing $10,000 a year, but don't for Making the decision early fear of flunking out of also allows you to budget school. The blow-off views M.4~k w£1/'I~T your time better. If you try 
flunking out as a way to save that $10,000. Surely there must be better ways to save money. 
As freshman we were presented with another type of study animal. Named for its originator, we have all at one time fit the mold of this study stereotype. Maybe it was only for the first week ofschool or maybe it was for an entire semester but everyone has been a Hoffmanlan at least on a trial basis. 
The strict time budget associated with this stud.ier quickly falls prey to a good movie, a co-ex ticket or the chance to get some extra sleep. 
Sometimes sleep is necessary in college. Dr. Hotfman would have us believe that we can get seven or eight hours of it a night. But there is one study type that rejects this even distribution ofsnooze time. The name all-ntgbter is somewhat self-explanatory but some fur­ther explanation could add valuable insight and instruc­tion to this, my favorite habit. 
For most of the week the all-ntgbter is hard to find, 
United
• 
Happy 21st 


Birthday
to 
Rob 
Hoover 


LOVE, 

Mom, Dad, Amy, Cocoa& TIP 

John Mennell 
Assistant News Editor 
involving himself in time-consuming activities yet get­ting in a little studying everyday. No one can ever seem to find an a/1-nigbter during the week. He tries to get sleep when he can knowing that eventually he will have to live up to his name. 
Finally his work will be piled to the ceiling, deadlines will loom overhead like lake-effect clouds and the all­nlgbter springs to life. 
An early decision is vital to anall-nigbter's success. It allows him time to promote his cause and make his night easier. Part of that 
to finish everything by a cer­tain time it causes unnecessary pressure. Anything can be finished overnight with a lot oftime to spare. 
The most important reason for establishing that you are going to pull an a/1-nigbter is to give you time to find someone to eat breakfast with. When the clock chimes seven times and your eyes long to shut it is diffi­cult ·to face the smiling, wide-awake workers in the dining halls. How could any one be that wide-awake that early? 
God understands a/1-ntgbters better than anyone. Dawn is the most beautiful time ofday. In the winter the snow glows in the pre-dawn light and all the colors are soft pastels. Dawn is the assurance that everthing will be all right and that you have survived. It is an award for surviving the night. 
Not many people get to see the sun-rise but it always makes a sleepless night better. Anyway, what are you doing for breakfast tomorrow morning? 
University Ministry 
offers 


Pre-Cana Programs 
which meet diocesan regulations across the country 
I
I
Pre-Cana 
Weekend 
I
March 8-9 
April 12-13 § 
$65 

I 
-----------------.~--------------------------------------·-----------.---------.----------------~--------------, 

The Observer 

john Poelker, president and chieffinancial officer ofCitizens and Southern Georgia Corporation, was a featured speaker at last night's Finance Forum, sponsored by the Finance Club. He dis­cussed "A Changing Industry: The Regional Banks'Perspective," in Hayes Healy-Auditorium. Poelker was preceded by john Moore, chairman and chief executive officer of the Beach Bank of Vero Beach. Both executives are Notre Dame graduates. 
SMC student elections feature only one ticket 
By MARY FRAN GISCH 
News Staff 
The race for student body presi­dent and vice presidents at Saint Mary's features only one ticket this year. 
The candidates running are: Ann Marie Kollman for student body president; Jeanne Heller, vice presi­dent for academic affairs; and Julie Harmon, vice president for student affairs. 
"The ticket running now has a lot ofexperience and will do a good job next year," current Student Body President Lee Ann Franks com­mented. 
All members ofthe ticket have ex­perience in student government. Kollman is currently vice pre.sident for student affairs, Heller is sopho­more class president, and Harmon is junior class president. 
"The fact that the ticket is un­opposed is in no way a reflection on the Board ofGovernance. This situa­tion has happened before," Franks said. 
Although two tickets ran in the last election, the two previous elec­tions were unopposed. 
Franks, who served as vice presi­dent for student alJairs in 1983-84 said, "I've run in elections both opposed and unopposed. The pres­sure is off in an unopposed election but the satisfaction ofwinning in an opposed election is much greater. It's good to know the students are behind you."· 
Julie Strazzabosco, vice president for academic affairs, said, "The ticket running is certainly not to blame." Franks agreed, saying, "Those run­ning are to be commended." 
"Students can organize a write-in ticket. They do have that option," said Franks. "Students see the time commitment as the number one problem in a running for office. And it is a big commitment. In a student government position there are daily responsibilities." 
Strazzabosco said, "On a small campus such as ours the talent splits up in all positions. Also the needs of the students are different than they were in the sixties and seventies. At that time the students had to ban to­gether to demand rights. Saint Mary's has a very cooperative ad­ministration that is truly concerned with the needs ofthe student." 

Wednesday, February 6, 1985-page 3 
A chance at grad school is offered with Army educational delay plan 
By BETII CORNWELL 
News Staff 
When a Notre Dame student graduates from Army ROTC, he may· not be required to go directly into the military because of ttie educa­tional delay option: the possibility to put off service and go on to graduate work. 
Senior ROTC member John Rademacher expains, "We applied for our delays within the first week of our first semesters senior year. When we got back from Christmas break, we found out whetlier or not our delay had been granted.'' 
The educational delay is never a guaranteed option. The Army takes several criterion into consideration when making their decisions. "The army has priorities of its own. First, we must fullfill our own needs in the areas of active duty, reserve duty, and active reserve. ]ben we are able to grant some educational delays," said Notre Dame AROTC Head Lt. Col. Robert Skinner. 
In the past, stud(:nts have had no trouble receiving their delays. For example, last year all ten of the stu­dents applying received the option. "Ironically, often a student who has received his delay will change his mind and turn it down in favor ofac­tive duty," noted Skinner. 
This year, howe·ver, not all stu­dents received the delays they had requested. Skinner described the problem: "First, you have to realize that a federal board is overseeing the process of sorting out nearly 9,000 applications. They either assign stu­dents to active duty or reserve duty, or grant an educational delay. This year the army needed a large num­ber of reserve officers, so the num­ber of educational delays granted was dropped. Furthermore, the army had a tendency to grant the delay of students whose education will provide an asset to the military. 
"For example, a degree in medicine or in a specialized techni­cal field will be valuable to the mili­tary, while a graduate degree in an arts and letters field can be less use­ful. Finally, studen'ts qualifications come into play. An arts and letters major with a high GPA may receive a delay before a pre-med with a lower one. It's a very competitive thing." 
However, denial of a delay does not necessarily end a student's edu­cation. Skinner added, "The student who enters the reserves or a tour of active duty can still attend school. The army offers many programs de­signed to aid officers in attaining an education." 

Stockman attacks military budgets 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Budget Director David Stockman virtually invited Congress yesterday to seek cuts in President Reagan's defense buildup, and said some military leaders are "more concerned about protecting their retirement benefits than they are about protecting the security of the American people." 
"When push comes to shove they'll give up on security before they'll give up on retirement" benefits, Stockman told the Senate Budget Committe<~, quickly adding he would probably "get in hot water" for his comments on milit<,U"y pensions. 
In his first appearance in Congress in defense of the president's $974 billion budget for 1986, Stockman also complained bitterly about farm­ers seeking emergency aid to allevi­ate the current credit crtsts, although he said political pressure would lead the administration to produce a bailout package swiftly. 
"I cannot figure out why the tax­payers of this country should have the responsibility to go in and refinance bad debt which was wil­lingly incurred by consenting adults," he said. 
The military pension program will cost nearly SI6 billion this year and is scheduled to rise in cost to S17.8 billion in the president's new budget for the 1986 fiscal year. 

Faculty take their turn at art show 
By SHEILA KANEHANN 
StaffReporter 
An art show to show the public "what the faculty of Saint Mary's Art Department does, and ~hat it teaches," is the attraction at Moreau Gallery through Feb. 14. 
The Faculty Art Show at Saint Mary's opened Jan. 18, and was the joint idea of Moreau Gallery Co-Directors Giovanna Lenzi­Sandusky and Bill Sandusky. 
It is the first show ofits kind "in over ten years," according to Lenzi-Sandusky. "Most of the work in the show is new work. 
Some ofit was just being finished before the opening." 
The show was scheduled for after Christmas break to give the artists time to complete their pieces. Each of the 11 members of the Saint Mary's Art Depart­ment faculty has a part in the show, with an average ofthree or four works shown by each artist. The media used by each artist is "the one that has become theirs, but not necessa.rily the one that the artist teaches." The show ex­hibits the "diversity ofworks in a series that relate to each other," said Lenzi-Sandusky. 
Two lectures are also a part of the show. The first was given Jan. 

Ir-----------------------------------1 




i fbV~c\P..~ i I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I ALL HARDBOUND TRADEBOOKS· I I 25~ OFF I I I * 1 WEEK ONLY * * FEBRUARY 4-9 * I I 
I I
Non-Fiction • Fiction • Cookbooks • Sports • Art • Crafts I Gift Books • Religious • Children's Books I 
I 2ND FLOOR BOOK DEPT. -HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE II
-------------------------------··---­
30 by Marcia Rickard on "The History of Medieval Tapestry." The second lecture will be by Lenzi-Sandusky on Feb. 6 from 
12:10 to 12:55 p.m. in Moreau, on "At the Onset of the Renais­sance; Masaccio, Brunelleshi and Donetello.'' 
The exhibit shows that Saint Mary's art students are not simply taught to be like their teachers. Lenzi-Sandusky said, "They are taught to be what they wish to be." 
Moreau Gallery is located in Moreau Hall. Hours are 9:30 to noon and 1 to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, and Sunday 1 to 3 p.m. 
Take the Skiiers Express t 
[t]ski
·~:lllllttll~·····~· 
$2900 BUS and LIFT TICKETS Rental $8.00 extra 
Convenient Departure points and dates 

7:15am Osceola 7:45am 1st Source Center 8:00am Notre Dame 
~source
..:Travel 
P.O. Box 1602 South Bend, IN 46634 219/236-2656 
---~------­

~~--~------~------------------. 
Wednesday, February 6, 1985-page 4
The Observer 


r 

You can be part of the greatest alliance in American business history -Electronic Data Systems and General Motors. 1bis alliance combines the information processing strengths of EDS with the resources of the largest company in the nation. And with it comes vast opportunities for you -the kind that business professionals can spend their entire careers seeking. You're already starting at the top with our outstanding resources for growth and success. And the only way to go is up. 
We're looking for self-starters -people with the confidence to set high goals and the determination to reach them. We want to put you at the core of EDS' operations as a Systems Engineer. EDS Systems Engineers use both business and technical skills to solve complex problems for our clients. 
The SED Program will prepare you for the leadership responsibilities you will have in the EDS and GM alliance. It lasts approximately 18 months and will undoubtedly be one of the most rigorous and rewarding business experiences of your life. You'll receive intensive classroom training, and you'll also have the chance to deal directly with our customers. You'll gain knowledge that will place you far ahead of your peers. And when you graduate, you'll have an exciting position with unlimited growth potential. 


To qualify for the SED Program, you must be a college graduate with a technical aptitude and an outstanding record of achievement. You should have a major in Management Information Systems, Computer Information Systems, Computer Science, or Engineering. We will also consider candidates with any academic major and a strong interest in business and information processing. In addition, you must be flexible to relocate and travel. Finally, you must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. Ifyou are a successful candidate, EDS will reward you with a competitive compensation package. And you're sure to thrive in our corporate environment where rewards are based on achievement -not seniority. 
TAKE THE FIRST STEP 
TOWARDJOINING THE 
GREATEST ALLIANCE IN 
AMERICAN BUSINESS 
HISTORY. 
Contact your college placement office today to schedule an interview with a local EDS 
recruiter. Or write to: Electronic Data Systems Corporation, 7171 Forest Lane, Dept. 1RZ0375, Dallas, TX 75230. (214) 661-6060. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
ECS 
Electronic Data Systen1s Corporation 
---~-------------------~--~-----------------------­
The Observer W1ednesday, February 6, 1985-page 5 
White House appoints Jewish group pushes for continued 
communication chief 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Nixon administration speechwriter who wrote Spiro Agnew's blister­ing attacks on the press will move into the Reagan White House and direct media planning as chief of communications, White House staffannounced today. 
Patrick Buchanan, now a tele­vision commentator and newspa­per columnist, will be in overall control of White House commu­
nications  including  press  rela­ 
tions  and  speechwriting,  said  
White  House  Chief  of  Staff  
Donald Regan.  

In addition, Regan said, Presi­dent Reagan has tapped two vet­erans ofhis first administration to perform similar jobs during his second term: Edward Rollins as head of an office dealing with politics and intergovernmental relations between Washington and state and local governments; and Max Friedersdorf as chief 
strategist for congressional lob­
bying. 
Each of the three officials will carry the rank of assistant to the president. 
Regan said James Brady, who has not worked full time since he was wounded in the 1981 assas­sination attempt against Reagan, will retain the title ofpress secre­tary, and Larry Speakes will con­tinue in his role as presidential spokesman. 
Although Speakes now oc­cupies the press secretary's of­fice, he vacates it once a week for Brady to stop in and answer mail and attend to other tasks. 
John Svahn will remain as director of the Office of Policy Development, Regan added. 
Explaining why he had picked the sometimes combative Buc­hanan for the communications job, Regan said he was "first ofall a good communicator. You've got to admit, at least you under­stand what he's saying. You may not like what he says but you un­derstand what he's saying. 

CHIMES 

Saint Mary,s College Literary Magazine is now accepting: 
stories poems photos pictures artwork 
Submit to: CHIMES c/o Westler 310 Madel~ Hall 


separation of relig~ion and politics 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Recent Su­
preme Court decisions have eroded 
the tradition ofseparation ofchurch 
and state in the United States, claims 
an official of The Jewish Anti­
Defamation League. 

Robert Epstein, an Indianapolis at­torney and chairman of the organization's regional board, told an interfaith meeting at Sinai Synagogue Monday that it supports continued separation of church and state. 
"Nowhere are minorities more vulnerable to attack, alienation and isolation than in the area of reli­gion," he said. 
Epstdn said the Supreme Court 

Council 
continuedfrom page 1 
concern. Again, recogmzmg certain curricular restraints, I feel it is realistic to allow a student three years to complete this require­ment." 
•Science. "I agree that the science 
Attention Juni4[)rs 
Applications for next y·ear's SENIOR FORMAL chairman will be available in the Student Activities office in LaFortune from Feb. 7 to Feb. 14. Completed applications are due at the Student Activities offfice . by 4pm Friday, Feb. 15. 
decision to allow a nativity scene on government property in Pawtucket, R.I., was an example of changing policy in the United States. 
"Viewed as a whole, these deci­sions send a clear message to Americans -there is a government preference for expression of reli­gion in institutions," he said. 
The ADL is not looking for equal treatment such as placing a menorah beside the crech<:, he said, adding that he was not any happier when he was at West Point Academy in December and saw both a creche and a menorah, a Jewish symbol at Hanukkah. 
"Clearly, the point of ADL is not for equal time," he explained, add­ing that his organization is asking 
requirement should remain at two semesters. I feel strongly that stu­dents, especially Arts and Letters students, should be encouraged to take more than juM the required two semesters ofscience." 
•Language. "Th•e opportunity to study a foreign language should be available to all students! It is very discouraging that some students are that no religious symbols be placed on state property. 
"The defeat ofthe (school) prayer amendments in the Senate provided a reminder that religion must be free ofgovernment influence," he said. 
The ADL is disturbed by the equal access act signed into law by Presi­dent Reagan last August, Epstein said in reference to the law which allows religious groups access to schools. 
"It can be argued that the equal access law will turn our school cafeterias into religious shopping centers," Epstein said. 
Although the act prohibits teach­ers from influencing school prayer groups, Epstein questioned whether faculty presence can "ever be neutral." 
unable to do so in a formal course." 
•Freshman 
Year ofStudies. "I ex­press deep concern for the discon­tinuities which exist between the concept of the Freshman Year of Studies and existing practice." 

•Freshman 
Seminar. "It must be stressed that writing should not become the sole focus of these classes." 


Gary Hart denounces GOP tactic 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Sen. Gary Hart, in a speech he insisted was not a prelude to a presidential bid, on Monday urged Democrats to denounce the "selfishness" of the Republican right-wing and foster a "new patrio­tism." 
Speaking to 400 people at historic Faneuil Hall, Hart also called for a new "national service" for all young Americans that would include both 
milita!'¥ and non-military opportuni­ties. 
"A new system of national service . . . will ask young Americans to return some of the advantages and investments they have received 
from our society," he said. He did not offer details on what that service would include. 

Hart said American patriotism must include a sense of both excel­~ 

ave 
With Thursday's issu~, you will have the chance to do more than just tell your friends how you like The Observer. You will be able to tell us. Inserted into the issue will be the 1985 Observer Readership Survey, the greatest attempt to determine your needs since the newspaper was founded 18 years ago. 
We'll ask you how we've been covering news, sports, opinion cJnd entertainment on campus. We'll ask you if you like more of this, or less of that. And best of all, it should only take five minutes to complete. 
So, on Thursday, take the time to help The Observer. Let us have it, cJnd we'lllet you have it--the best possible daily newspaper. 
lence and justice in international and domestic affairs. 

l 
l, 1 
, 1 ~ 
1 
1 
1 
Daytona Beach 
from 589* 
South Padre Island 
from '78* 
Mustanglsland/PorlA 
$119 
More information and reservations, call 
toll free 
1-BOQ-321-5911 




~i~~~_()__i__ll__t_________________
w_·ed-ne-sd-ay_,F_eb_ru_ary_6_,1_98-5--p-ag-e6 
The abortion issue is not easily resolved 

Abortion Is probably one of the most bit­terly discussed topics today. With pro-life adv­ocates arguing that abortion is equivalent to murder and pro-choice advocates protesting that anti-abortion legislation is an infringe­ment of personal rights, abortion has become the moral Issue of the decade. Is abortion wrong? Unfortunately, there Is no consensus on this question, therefore the turmoil. But In a democratic society such as ours, there must be consensus to form a legal, and therefore public opinion on anything. Therefore, until such time as when a consensus of the Ameri­can public believes that abortion· Is wrong, 
Michael Froning in the minority 
any anti-abortion legislation would be an in­
fringement of the Individuals rights therefore 
violating the First Ammendment ofour consti­
tution. 
There are two main arguments supporting 
anti-abortion legislation. One equates abor­
tion with murder while the other attempts to 
make abortion analogous with civil rights. 
These arguments however, are at best 
disagreed with or simply very weak. 
Pro-lifers argue that the unborn fetus Is a human being and therefore should be protected under the law because abortion Is murder. But the key word here Is unborn. In fact, there Is no consensus, scientifically or otherwise, that the unborn fetus Is a human being and therefore abortion, murder. But in a democratic society consensus is crucial to the forming of laws. Views that are not shared by the community In general cannot be imposed on those who don't agree with them; this vi­
olates the Constitution, specifically the freedom of choice. The fact that there Is no consensus or general public view on abortion Is clearly demonstrated by the turmoil created In the recent presidential election. 
The second most popular argument against abortion is in response to the pro-choice view that a particular religious value cannot be Imposed on society as a whole. This argument was possibly best stated by William F. Buckley 
In his National Review: "Does that mean when fMartin Luther King asked for civil rights laws that would forbid Americans certain practices to which they had been accustomed, his coun­sel ought not to have been heeded because he 
spoke it from the pulpit?" 

No, of course not. The fact Is, the people of 
America, of the world, listened to Dr. King be­
cause of what he said, rather than where he 
said it from. Dr. King was judged on the con­
tent of his words not the authority of his 
profession and civil rights laws passed be­
cause he convinced enough people: Jews, 
Christians, Protestents and atheists, thus a 
consensus, to fight for his agenda and pass It 
Into law. 

Thus the civil rights argument is not 
analogous to the abortion issue because the 
passing of civil rights was based on a con­
sensus and anti-abortion legislation is not. The 
element of consensus must be present in or­
der to legislate an opinion Into law, no matter 
how "right" one opinion is considered to be. 
An example of a situation that is analogous to 
the abortion Issue is the case of equal rights 
for women. Is the equality of women less Im­
portant than the equality of the unborn? 
Shouldn't women's rights be protected under 
the constitution (as they are presently not)? 
Many would argue yes, yet there is no con­
sensus on this issue, therefore legislation 
which would protect the equality of women 
under the constitution, namely the Equal 
Rights Ammendment, has not been passed and 
will not be until a consensus among the Amer­
ican people is achieved. 

Clearly, the abortion issue is not a simple one. There are two very dl1ferent positions one can take, whether abortion is right or wrong, and neither of these positions Is clearly right. Therefore, in the light that there Is insufficient popular support on any sort of anti-abortion legislation, no such legislation should be passed, as it would infringe on the rights of many individuals. Maybe someday there will be a consensus on the abortion Issue, but until then it Is not in the interests of our democratic society to impose on our citizens a law which we know is not in their hearts and souls. 
Michael Froning is a freshman at Notre Dame and ts a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
r 
r 

r Mardi Gras celebration 
r 
r 
r 

r supports local charities 
~ 
r 
Notre Dame Is famous for tradition, and stu­dents count on annual events to fill their 
calendar. From football season to An Tostal, the year Is full of activity. One traditional Notre Dame event, however, has undergone change In recent years -Mardi Gras. 
The Mardi Gras celebration at Notre Dame has traditionally come at a time when winter 
Karen Klocke guest column 
"cabin fever" starts to spread. The first Mardi Gras celebration in the 1940's brought big­band ballroom dances. The more famous Mardi Gras came to South Bend !:iter in the form of casino nights in Stepan Center. More recently, stemming from a diocesan ban on gambllng, the New Orleans-themed festival has been restructured. And so 1985 will play host to the fourth annual dance marathon. 
In 1982, New Orleans spirit came to South Bend ao; the first dance-a-thon began a new Notre Dame tradition. At Mardi Gras 1983, two hundred costumed dancers were greeted by Digger and Gerry, danced the limbo and the twist in the 12-hour challenge. They raised over seven thousand dollars for Notre Dame charities. Mardi Gras 1983 and 1984 saw stu­dents from Walsh and Howard win trips to New Orleans, Louisiana. Mardi Gras 1985 can 
be bigger and better, bringing another year of 
"dancing for dollars." 

The main focus of Mardi Gras often falls on 
the festive aspects ofthe weekend. In thepast, 
the purpose behind the events has gotten lost. 
All money raised at Mardi Gras goes toward 
funding volunteer service organizations at 
Notre Dame. Groups such as Big Brothers, 
Logan Center, the Neighborhood Study Help 
Program and the World Hunger Coalition are 
among those who benefit. Although each one 
ofus may not have the time to get involved in 
these organizations, everyone can help them 
by supporting Mardi Gras. 

The weekend provides many diJierent op­
portunities for involvement. The 12-hour 
dance-a-thon (to be held this year on Friday, 
Feb. 8 in Stepan Center) offers spots for enthu­
siastic marathoners. Ifyour feet are interested 
in a shorter engagement, stop by the dance 
while it Is open to the public -from 9 p.m. to 1 
a.m.-and enjoy the live band. Your admission 
will be added to the Mardi Gras Charity Fund. 
Busy Friday? Then sponsor one ofyour friends 
who will be dancing all night. You need not be 
a dancer to contribute to the fund. 

Mardi Gras is a chance to get together with 
friends and escape the winter weather for a 
few hours. You need only cross the quad on 
Friday night to find fun. Help keep a Notre 
Dame tradition alive, and support Notre Dame 
charities at Mardi Gras. 

Karen Klocke was tbe chairwoman ofboth the 1983 and 1984 Notre Dame Mardi Gras celebrations and is a seniorEnglish major at Notre Dame. 


RASTA tries to relieve the hunger in Ethiopia 
Imagine five million Americans dying last year from a mysterious disease. After you've done that, imagine up to 50 million Americans facing death this year from the same disease, and imagine very little being done to help them. While it may be hard to imagin•: a situa­tion like this occurring in the United States, in Ethiopia it is reality, and the disease is starva­tion. One million Ethiopians died painful deaths from starvation last year, and six to ten million of the country's remaining 42: million people face the same searing prospect this year. In light of this intense suffering and of Notre Dame's commitment to the betterment of mankind and the global community, a new group has been formed on campus, Rally Against Starvation (RASTA). 
Santiago O'Donnell Paul Komyatte 
guest column 
RASTA is a group of students united in the belief that the current situation in Ethiopia needs both a short range as well as a long range solution. In the short range, money needs to be sent to Ethiopia as soon as possi­ble to help fight the starvation ofthousands of people. RASTA members feel the urgent need to organize a fund-raising event to raise some of this money. We are aware that evecy doijar we send may save a life. RASTA members are also concerned with long range solutions to the problem ofhunger in Ethiopia. Hence, we believe in the appropriateness of a cultural event that will remind us of our biblical rela­tionship with the people of Ethiopia. 
References to the Black race in tl1e Bible became the impetus for future Black religion as embodied in the term "EthiopianiSm." Black preachers, in an effort to confront the Western falsification of history condoning slavery, appealed to Biblical passages such as Psalm 68:31, "Princes shall come out ofEgypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God." Black leaders also viewed Simon of Cyrene as an African. Ethiopianism galvanized Black religion in the face of the slave trade which destroyed the very human dignity of 
the Black race. Today, from South Africa to 
North America and the Caribbean, Et­
hiopianlsm has remained as an element in 
Black religious thought. The result of blend­
ing these ideas together with the current 
plight of Ethiopia is RASTA's spring event, 
"Reggae for Ethiopia." 
Reggae music, as expressed in the musical 
culture of the Rastafarian sect, Is a very 
popular Jamaican rhythm, but it Is also the 
channel of expression of Ethiopianism. The 
Rastafarians viewed Ethiopia as the location of 
heaven on earth and as the cradle of civiliza­
tion, a place where one would go to live in 
peace and salvation. Reggae music itself is of­
ten associated with the three colors of the Et­
hiopian flag (green, yellow, and red), and 
reggae lyrics often embody the dreams of a 
free Africa. 
Fortunately, reggae music today is Interna­tionally famous. In Jamaica, the Caribbean, Africa, Britain, Canada, the U.S. and elsewhere, Rastarfarians such as the late Bob Marley have achieved superstardom. RASTA's proposal is to utilize reggae music in an effort to help our starving brothers in Ethiopia. "Reggae for Et­hiopia" will be a reggae music festival this spring. Hopefully, it will raise funds and remind us that Ethiopians are our brothers. RASTA is going to hire a big band (hopefully the "Restless Natives" from Chicago) to at­tract many people. The festival will be publicized in the local high-schools, univer­sities, and the reggae program on the radio. We are anticipating a great turnout, especially from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. During the festival, we will also bake and serve large loafs ofbread as a reminder of our good fortune. A preliminary festival date has been set for either April 19 or 20. 
At this time, RASTA is In its developmental stage. We will need the support of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students In particular as well as the support. of the larger Notre Dame community to make the festival a suc­cess. RASTA will be holding its next meeting on Wednesday, Feb. 6 in LaFortune's main· lobby. Our brothers and sisters in Ethiopia are dying and need help. RASTA is your chance to extend the help they need to survive. 
Santiago O'Donnell and Paul Komyatte are thefounders ofthe Rally Against Staroa­tion and are students at Notre Dame. 

Ifyou have an OJPinion, why not share it? 
Ifyou would Ul111 to respond to sometb-"i yo11'~ r-aul -n The Observer, wby n01: write 11 lrtter to tiH editor. Letten sbotdd l)e well­written, typed, no man 1/JQn 250 u;ords In lmgtb 11nd nuut betv tiH stgffQtu,-. OJ' tiH m~­tbor-. Letter-s u.llidl arr not s-gMd by tbe 1111tbor wm not beptmiUbed. 
Letten to tiH editor-am be mmled to Tbc 
Observer, P.O.JJo:z Q, Noh Dtllru, lruL 46JJ6, or-dell__, to etiiHr OfiT NohY Dtllru oflla 111 Ltli'OI"'JUU SIUMnt CAIIur or-owr s.llll M.iy's offta -nHQ[/g~U Colktae C#ftter. 
The Observer I"'!HH"Wf IIH rlpt to Mit 1111 1'111Jtl!ri41 IIIIMUtt-.1 to IIH Vlewpolllt .,...,. mmtfor-ptm/ICIII/cm. 


VieW_P-Oint Wednesday, February 6, 1985-page 7 
Watching the spreading flood of conservatism 
"The times are a ·changing," is the refrain from one of Bob Dylan's greatest songs and although the song was an anthem of the tur­bulent 60's, it is not out ofplace today. 
Mark Boennighausen 
gravity is a myth 
Instead of hippies or flower children, there is now a phenomenon which is prevalent in the country and it is referred to by its mem­bers as "the movement." This movement is the growth of well educated, under 30 Americans who embrace the conservative rhetoric of President Reagan and the right wing of the Republican Party. 
These new politically active Americans, as described in a recent Washington Post article, 
don't wear bell bottomsor headbands. Instead 
the women wear Pappagallo shoes and the 
men wear dark suits. Furthermore, rather than 
smoking pot they drink scotch. And they 
definitely have interesting views on life. One 
member succinctly summed up his view as, 
"It's boring to be a proletariat." 
Ronald Reagan is their hero and one female member of"the movement" says she looks for Reaganlike qualities when looking for a boyfriend. Qualities such as "strong, mascu­line, proud and patriotic" are tops on her list. She did not, however, mention anything about age. 
Morality also is important for this new group. This same female member would like to see premarital sex outlawed. She does have the foresight to admit that there could be an enforcement problem concerning the inva­sion of privacy, but she sees nothing wrong with having the law on the books. 
Although I disagree with many oftheir posi­tions, I find nothing wrong with having this new wave sweeping the country. f:our years at Notre Dame has prepared me for it. They do, after all, add some definitely needed color to the American social and poltical spectrums. 

It is apparent from the amoum of Reagan­Bush stickers around campus before the No­vember election and the increasing number of scotch drinkers I have seen at parties lately, that this movement is quickly enveloping Notre Dame. Such an occurrence· should not be viewed with too much alarm as Notre Dame can't become very much more conser­vative. Anyway, sex is already outlawed on campus. 
There is one thing that is, however, particu­larly scary about the movement and that is the way it stereotypes certain groups and individ­uals. Indeed, a common value that many of these ambitious young Americans share is called "Professor Loathing." The phrase refers to the idea that no faculty members are in tune with the times. One former Dartmouth stu­dent said in the Post article, "The majority of university professors are socialist. They hate this country. They prefer distant tqtalitarians to the local businessman." 
Professors are, on the average, a very liberal lot, but one does not have to agree with their opinions to repect what they have to offer. Students learn best when they are challenged and this includes the challenging of beliefs. Hence, liberal ideas do not necessarily create liberal students and it can, in the long run, produce better informed conservative stu­dents. 
As the conservative movement finally en­gulfs the campus, one can only hope that respect for and interest in all views is not lost in the raging waters. 
Mark Boennigbausen is a senior govern­ment major at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 




P.O.BoxQ 
Cigarette smoking is not a vice free from sin 
DearEditor: 
I was shocked and disgusted to read Father Robert Griffin's defense of cigarette smoking. Griffin is arguing that the Church has never condemned smoking and this vice will help control his other vices and, thus, get him into Heaven. These positions are selfish, untenable and just plain stupid. The Church has always taught that suicide is a sin. Because it takes 20 years for smoking to kill you it is not any less suicidal. 
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaihs in the United States and the number of deaths per year has been increasing for more than 50 years. The personal and monetary costs to our country from lost work hours, dis­ability, medical care and deaths is staggering. Who does Griffin think is going to pay for his medical care when he is dying from terminal lung cancer? All of us will pay in the form of higher health care costs. To claim that smoking harms only the smoker is terribly shortsighted. 
Griffin claims he will not quit smoking be­
cause of "blue-noses" badgering him to stop. 
This statement was naive at best. The real rea­
son he will not quit is that he has developed, as 
all smokers do, a physical addiction to the 
drug nicotine. Father Griffin, you are a drug 
addict. 
David Smith Notre Damegraduate student 
Mother Teresa's work gets effective praise 
DearEditor: 
What a marvelous piece is "Mother Theresa and the Bhopal Disaster." A more powerful, however oblique, paean of praise would be more difficult to imagine, and I think you are right in trusting your readers to recognize a superb piece ofindirect communication. 
I confess I doubted that even the Notre 
Dame student, schooled though he or she may 
be in irony, would get the real point. But the 
juxtaposition of this holy woman and the 
"new breed of nun-woman" who is on the 
move, particularly in the United States, was 
delicious. 
A contrast between Mother Theresa and a 
certain senator in Ethiopia would have been 
too heavy-handed and Pettifer was wise to 
avoid it. The use of the Blessed Virgin Mary as 
a model of assertiveness training more than 
made up for this absence, though the gynecological stuff came close to being over­tly outrageous. And I thought the rhetorical spell was almost broken by the pretended ac­ceptance of the old opium-of-the-people guff. But the sly references to Locke and Norman Cohen (when will Norman Cohen become a household word?) were lovely. 
My sides still ache from the presentation of Jesus as a feisty guy who would not be pushed around even by "American corporate buc­caneers." But best ofall is the invention ofthat new non-woman, doing what she can to avoid taking orders from prelates, building Net­work, part of the social justice lobby in Wash­ington! Undoubtedly this article is a work of genius. A suggestion about the pseudo name -Pettifer is good, even great. But Ann? I suggest Lucy. Get it -an anagram. The Little Devil. Think about it. Meanwhile, congratulations for publishing this extremely effective praise of the noble work of Mother Theresa of Cal­cutta. 
Ralph Mdnerny Notre Dameprofessor 
Pettifer's column reassuring to Catholics 
DearEditor: 

After reading Ann Pettifer's "Mother Teresa and the Bhopal Disaster," I was reassured to recall that Christ hand-picked "Twelve Apostles," and not the "People's Dozen," and that I am a member of the Roman Catholic Church, rather that the "United Christian Liberation Front." 
Pettifer, it seems, is somewhat of a spiritual Melvin Belli -using the Bhopal disaster as a shabby springboard for accomplishing her own personal ends. She is a woman fixed on venting her frustrations at all costs, even at the 
expense of Mother Teresa. 

We are all familiar with Mother Teresa. She is, by choice, one of the Church's runts. Her method ofalleviating the suffering of the poor is specific and personal. Thus I find it curious and disturbing when Pettifer modestly claims, "Mother Teresa's spirituality will take its place eventually alongside the dinosaur." 
During the Bhopal aftermath, Mother Teresa's presence surely brought great com­fort to many suffering victims. She gathered together a frightened flock to preach hope at a time of despair, and faith at a time of doubt. Granted Union Carbide must certainly answer for its negligence, but one cannot fault Mother Teresa, who amid this disaster, rightly dis­cerned that forgiveness is the handmaiden of justice. 
The articulate Pettifer says our true female prophetic role-model is Mary, the Church hierarchy has been overly concerned with the "state ofher hymen," and the mother ofJesus is really a sort ofmacho-Mary (I assume some­what akin to the nun-woman th:H she envi­sions). Contrary to Pettifer's expectation, I do not believe that the spirituality of Mother Teresa is destined for the spiritual trash heap. Rather, such honesty and devotion will con­tinue to form the very foundation ofour Cath­olic Faith. 
The Church, as the living Body ofChrist and a dynamic entity, will surely continue to grow and develop in the Spirit of Christ. Pettifer clearly seeks such change. She wishes to usher in "a classless church, a church without clerics -those spiritual lords -and without a lumpenproletariat of the laity." 
The Church today faces many issues which warrant our careful consideration and prayer. Unfortunately, Pettifer's pejorative and one­sided analysis tends to obscure any legitimate views which she may hold. Meaningful and long-lasting changes will be derived from a thoughtful and sensitive treatment ofthese is­sues, and in the end, nothingwill r<emain more precious than a single life given completely and unselfishly in the name ofChrist. 
]amesRoot Notre DameLaw Student 
It says cheer the Irish not to taunt opponents 
DearEditor: 
This letter is written in response to the let­ters written by Colin Lipnick)· and John McConville Jr. Both letters state that the booing and taunting of an opposing team are acts that are not "reprehensible", but com­mon, helpful and truly "competitive." 
Simply put, the statement that booing op­posing teams is "helping your own team" is highly questionable, and only someone with a very warped understanding of competition would claim that such behavior is due to a positive competitive attitude. 
In my competitive experience I have never had my level of play increased by the booing of the opposition. I think that this is true of most, if not all, athletes. Often the winner ofa competitive event will give partial credit for the victory to the fans who cheered and backed the victor throughout the event. Never have I heard one thank those who booed and taunted the opposition. I believe this is clear evidence that booing is not con­sidered helpful to most athletes. 
In any case, jeering the opposition is not in the true spirit of competition. The value of competition lies in backing and urging a favor­ite to victory over the opposition, not the belittling ofthe opposition. I am not surprised that a nun would be against the belittling of people who are giving their best to achieve a dream of success and victory. Should we jeer at their attempts merely because of our favoritism? In belittling their efforts, we belittle the efforts ofour own team as well. Let the team do the struggling, the purpose ofthe fans should be to support not to attack. 
Concerning the widespread attitude of Lip­nicky and McConville, that this attitude is 
prevalent in  our  society is both  true  and  
tragic.  
Lipnicky states  that  a formal apology to  

DePaul would make us the laughing stock of the country. Unfortunately, this is probably so. Let them laugh. Perhaps we deserve it. 
In closing, let us keep in mind the words of our immortal fight song, "Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame." 


-~The Observer-Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edt tor-in-Chief . . ... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . Dave Taiclet Managmg Edttor . . .. Mark Worscheh Controller . . .. Dave Stephen itch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor . . . ...... Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager . .. Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor . . . Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. .... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Edttor ..... Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager. . ... Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Editor. . Mtchael Sullivan Production Manager. . ... Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Vtewpotnt Editor . . ..... Dave Grote Project Manager ...... Amy Stephan present the views ot their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor. . . Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying optnions on campus, through letters. Photo Editor. . . . . Pete Laches Founded November 3,1966 is encouraged. 



Accent 



•
avt 
.....etterman 
confident in ourselves, more willing 
Bob Henke to take risks and we're not as afraid  
to fail as we were in the first year." features staff writer  
With higher ratings, "Late Night"  
If you find yourself cursing the  How docs she find these people?  receives more appeals for appear­ 
frostbitten tundra ofIndiana, and  Want ads in New York papers work  ances on the show. Sands has been  
vow never to return to this state  well, after some adjustments.  approached by Burt Reynolds, and  
once you have that diploma in your  "When I started advertising for  Tom Selleck, of"Magnum P.l."  
hands, just be happy for one thing  'Human Tricks' I wrote 'Can you do  fame, wants to do a "Stupid Human  
the Hoosier state can rightly be  something odd?.' " After several  Trick" on the show. Guests on the  
proud of: David Letterman.  obscene phone calls, she decided to  show in 1984 included Bill Cosby,  
r  The 38-year-old Indianapolis  change the wording to "Can you do  New York Mayor Ed Koch, Edwin  
r  native recently celebrated the third  a unique trick?" The calls stopped.  Neuman, Brooke Shields, Chicago  
r  year anniversary ofhis tremen­ Hall says normal, everyday  Bear Walter Payton, sex therapist  
r  dously popular "Late Night with  people ­"accountants come up  Dr. Ruth Westheimer, Cyndi  
r  David Letterman," and with good  with the best tricks"-are her best  Lauper, Liberace, and George  
r r r r r r r,  reason. In the fourth quarter oflast year, the show recorded the highest Nielsen ratings ever in its history. Also, USA Today reported that "Late Night" was the most watched show on college campuses. What accounts for the show's  source ofguests. She looks for "something that took time to learn. We had a guy who juggled ping pong balls with a blow dryer. Some people can juggle and that makes them different, but it's not unique and it's not stupid. But using a blow  Burns, among many others. Letterman, a graduate of Ball State University in Muncie, Ind., was greatly impressed with Steve Allen's syndicated late night show. "I was 1 S or 16 at the time. Every night they would do something really  
r  success, and why is it especially  dryer, who'd ever think ofit?"  peculiar."  
r  popular with the college age audi­ Does Hall have a favorite "Human  Asked ifhe models his show after  
r  ence?Just why has Eddie Murphy  Trick"? "Last week we auditioned a  Allen's, Letterman replies: "I liked  
r  called "Late Night" the "hippest  woman who, when she was a child,  the flavor of that show. You didn't  
show on television"?  used to watch ventriloquists on  know what they were going to do,  
Well, you tell me where else you  television and wanted to do their  but you knew that it was going to  
can tune in after a long night of  act. So she got a dummy and  be strange. So I liked that notion  
studying, and see a grown man, in a  practiced for three years before  and if there's a show we've tried to  
suit with hundreds of Alka Seltzer­ perfecting it." The aspiring ventrilo­ imitate the feding ofit would be  
like tablets glued to it, submerse  quist didn't realize, though, that  that one."  
himselfin a tank ofwater. Not too  ventriloquists do have their mouths  -While majoring in radio and  
many shows offer this variety of  open when they perform. "She  television at Ball State, he worked  
craziness. Although the Alka Seltzer  thought they were doing it from  part time as a substitute announcer  
skit was a crowd pleascr, the audi­ their throat. So this girl can recite  at his hometown television station.  
ence was unaware ofits dangers. In  and sing with her mouth closed. It  This position developed into full­ 
a rehearsal, one of the writers at­ sounds like a little Munchkin; it's  time work for Letterman after  
tempted the skit and almost passed  hysterical. She'll be on in the  graduation, but it was not to last.  
out. They discovered that the  future."  The station's owners were not  
tablets saturated the water with  pleased when in the course ofan­ 
carbon dioxide, so Letterman did  "Why has 'Late Night'  nouncing that a tropical storm had  
the skit wearing an oxygen mask. One of Letterman's guests last yt·ar had recently ~urvived going  become so popular? 'I think the audience is  been upgraded to hurricane, Letter­man congratulated the storm on its being promoted.  
over Niagara Falb in a barrel . In an  starting to catch up  It was only a matter of  
attempt to recreate the drama for the audience, Letterman sealed  with the show."'  time before he found himself on "The Tonight Show." Over the  
himself in a barrel and rolled down  Barry Sands  years, he was Johnny Carson's guest  
the steps through the studio. "I was  1 7 times, and guest hosted the  
nervous about that because it  "Late Night" is unique in that it is  · show SO times. Then there was the  
looked like you could get hurt,"  somewhere between being a com­ morning time "David Letterman  
Letterman says. "I was also very  edy show and a talk show. This  Show," then "Late Night," and, well,  
claustrophobic about that one."  requires a special breed ofcomedy­ the rest is history.  
Would he describe himself as fear­ writing, and the show's writers  Letterman greatly enjoys working  
less? "No, I am not fearless, perhaps  seem to have thrived on the chal­ with band leader Paul Shaffer, who  
foolhardy, but not fearless."  lenge. Letterman, who doubles as a  recently formed the group The  
It is not the stunts alone that  writer, and his cohorts were  Honeydrippers. Larry "Bud" Mel­ 
make viewers loyal, or even ad­ awarded a 1984 Emmy for Out­ man, a regular on the show, and in  
dicted to the show. Letterman has  standing Writing in a Variety or  real life Calvert De Forest, adds a  

Campus followers flock 1 
I
been called one of the best ad­Music Program. certain brand ofsedate humor to 
I
libbers ever on television, and his Barry Sands, the show's producer, the show. His "Ask Mr. Melman" 
Eric Bergamo
quick witted one-liners are maintains that "Late Night's" origins segments have generated quite a delivered with an accuracy and a can be traced back to the short­following. 
features staff writer 
bluntness that has won him acclaim. lived daytime program, "The David Letterman, an owner of two large 
Y
ou have seen th,ese people humor. Only Dave would go outTom Shales ofThe Washington Post Letterman Show," which aired in dogs (Bob and Stan), loves airing around the Notre Dame onto the streets of New York andhas called Letterman "America's 1980. Although the show was "Stupid Pet Tricks." "I like the campus. You can hear them talking ask people what they have In theirfunniest whippersnapper" and says nominated for five Emmys and won animals. People who don't have about their video hero, who can be purses and bags as "Mr. Curious." 
the show "has the rare distinction three, the ratings were just not pets don't understand the bond that seen in the late hours Monday Only Dave would demand that Dickin television offeeling just right for there, and the show was cancelled exists between the animal and the through Thursday. 'They are the cult Clark be removed from "TV's the time at which it airs ... (it) is after only four months. owner, but people who do have of this late night television god. But Bloopers and PracticalJokes" be­one of the few programs that looks When "Late pets are just suckers for them. 
not to worry, they don't hand out cause Dick Clark is on too manyas though a lot ofwork went into Night" premiered on Feb. 1, 1982, I think it's flowers or ask for donations. They shows already. You don't seeit." Michael Hill ofThe Baltimore further fine tuning had to be done very pleasant and when it work.'>, it's are the cult ofDavid Letterman. Johnny Carson do these sort ofEvening Sun described "Late Night" to find the show's chemistry. "It perfect television." 
"Late Night with David Letter­things on the "Tonlght Show." 
as "one of the hippest, free­was too frenetic," Sands feels. Depending on your viewpoint, it man" has exploded into the biggest What makes his show the talk ofwheeling hours of television "Everything was piled one on top of looks as though we'll be blessed or hit on college campuses in years. An the campus is those unorthodox available." another. Everything was jam­burdened with "Late Night" for unusual mix oftalk show and out­little acts ofinsanity that Dave Although the show may appear packed. The idea was to let it some time to come. After broad­right lunacy, many have flocked to engages in. One example is the spontaneous, much planning and breathe a little, slow it down a little, casting over 500 episodes, the show watch this three ring circus of the popular Thursday night "Viewer precision goes into each segment of it's late night television, it doesn't has just been renewed by NBC for late night airwaves. With David Mail" segment is where Dave reads "Late Night." Sue Hall is the show's have to have a rush hour pace. another year. David Letterman is Letterman as the ringleader and letters sent in by his faithful production assistant, and it is her When you slow it down you get typically modest and laid back, Paul Shaffer as his foil and musical watchers. Dave chooses a few ofthe job to locate unusual and interest­more mileage out of the material." though: "I think things are going master, the show has taken the best letters he has received duringing people for the show. She has Why has "Late Night" become so better than I would have guessed college scene by storm. the week to answer and publiclyfound, among other things, a man popular? "1 think the audience is they would be going three years David Letterman exudes boyish jibes the authors ofthe letters. 
who juggles ping pong balls with a starting to catch up with the show. I into it. Maybe we've just worn charm, subtle wit (though only in When finished exposing a letter to hair dryer, and a schoolteacher who think David is a much better inter­people down to the point where extreme situations ofdanger), and a nationwide humiliation, Dave dives head first into a styrofoam cup viewer. The show is more relaxed, they say, 'Oh, all right. We'll watch bizzare, sometimes warped sense of throws the letter through the of water with a ring offire around it. more free wheeling. We are more the damn show.' " 

Wednesday, February 6, 1985-page 8-9 



Letterman's 'King ofthe one-liners' 

o catch David's antics 
'window' (complete with sound of them talking about the dog who did breaking glass.) forward somersaults last week's 
The wildly absurd "Stupid Pet Stupid Pet Tricks or the old man Tricks," when pet owners bring out who balanced a broomstick on his their pets and have them perform nose and then moved it to his stunts ofstunning skill or un­shoulder without touching it on believable stupidity, is popular with Stupid Human Tricks. You can hear Letterman followers. A spin-off of them state, "I do what I do what I this is "Stupid Human Tricks" do for you kids, and this is the where people come on the show thanks I get!" You notice them refer and do the same stupid tricks that to Paul Shaffer as 'the King ofGing' the pets do with similar results. and David Letterman as 'Mr. Rock 
Audience members seek the and Roll'. They make a huge fuss advice of Larry 'Bud' Melman in the over the fact that Dave got an ad in ever enjoyable "Ask Mr. Melman." TV Guide. They have sudden Melman gives his advice to those cravings for 'Toast-on-a-Stick' or who need it, or don't need it but get make a habit ofwatching each and it anyway, and then gives them two every Thursday for Viewer Mail. 
Late Night T-Shirts for asking. Yes, the David Letterman Cult has 
The "Phil Donahue Calendar" infiltrated every level ofcampus marked offthe days until Phil left life. Chicago to move to New York, was a running gag for almost three Someday, you might be walking months. Phil Donahue personally towards the Library when you find marked offone of the days on the yourselfunconsciously humming calender. the 'Buy a car, rent a truck' song. 
The David Letterman Cult is Then, you may realize that the The Observer /Paul Kra~
large, visible, and vocal on the David Letterman Cult has gotten 
Mark Me Veigh, Art Helmus, John Crilly count themselves among the campus Letterman fans 
Notre Dame campus. You can hear hold ofyou and won't let you go. 
Thursday nights 
Bob Vonderheide 
features staff writer 

T
he one-liner, the irreverent cynic. He argues With guests, always on the edge but never rude. Or at least, never too rude. He's the king of the moment, the prince ofthe punch, and thousands and thousands and thousands ofcollege students stay up. each weeknight just to imitate him the next day. And he's a Hoosier. Let's get on with it, shall we? Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome my good friend, Mr. David Letterman. 
Steve Andrews ofVanderbilt University has been watching Letterman's nonsense ever since its inception in the late '50s, long before the rest ofus ever thought Letterman was more than a character from "Electric Company." What follows is Mr. Andrew's collection offavorite one-liners from "Late Night," an exclusive, mind you, to The Observer. 
•"I'm 
tired. But it's a good kind of tired." 

•"Hard 
to believe, isn't it?" 

•"It's 
more fun than humans should be allowed to have." 

•"You 
can almost hear the stock dropping, can't you?" 

•"Ladies 
and gentlemen, say hello to my good friend Paul Schaffer." 

•"Remember 
this is just an exhibition. Please no wagering." 

•"Paul, 
just how old isJoan Collins anyway? Fifry?" 

•"Let's 
slap a $1.7 million lawsuit on them real quick and see how they react." 

•"Now 
you just made that up, didn't you?" 

•"We're 
having some fun now." 

•"Eating 
McDonald's in an abandoned railcar, gee in some states that's the legal definition ofvagrancy." 

•"It's 
just plain big." 

•"(Fill 
in just about any question, comma) shall we?" 

•"Hello 
former astronaut Col. Gordon Cooper. Thanks for calling." 


•"So, 
Don, what's the deal with the hair?" 

•"These 
are actual letters from actual viewers." 

•"Let's 
get on with it, shall we?" 

•"Almost 
too much entertainment." 

•"Remember, 
Ruth, this is a family program." 

•"Wake 
the kids, phone the neighbors. We got a hot one." 

•"The 
1978 Super Bowl drew 44.2 percent of the viewing audience. Gee, our weekly edition ofViewer Mail has that many viewers every time." 

•"I 
do and do and do for you kids, and this is the thanks I get." 

•"(And 
one from Paul Schaffer) Dave, you are my music." Andrews also relates his two favorite exchanges from the Letterman show. 


Number I: Dave: "What's your name ma'am." Ma'am: "Mary Stevens." Dave: "And what do you do?" Mary: "I'm an insu1rance representative." Dave: "Here in New York?" Mary: "Yes, uh-huh." Dave: "And how much do you weigh?" 
Number2: Dave (out on the s-treets interviewing): "What is it you sell here?" Man (standing beneath a sign reading "Just Bulbs"): "Just bulbs." Dave: "Uh-huh. Anything else." Man: "No. Just bulbs." Dave: "What ifI wanted a lamp? Could you sell one to me?" Man:"No." Dave: "And why not?" Man: "We don't sell lamps." Dave: "What do you sell?" Man: "Just bulbs." Dave: "I see. Just bulbs." 
-
The Observer Wednesday, February 6, 1985 -page 10 




Classifieds 
The Obserr•er Notr<: Dam<: oflke. I<Kated on thl· third tloor of l.al'ortum· ~ludt·nt Cent<:r, acn·prs da,sifinl adn·rti,in)l fromlJ ;un. until 1 p.m.. Monday throu)lh Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary·, offil'l'. locatt·d on till' third tloor of Haggar Collt•gt· C<:nt<:r. anTpts da"ifi<:d' from 12:50 p.m. umil .~p.m. ~1on· day though Friday Deadline h>r n<:xHia\' da"iflnb i.• .~ p.m All da"ifit·d' must hl' pr<:paid. t·ithn in p<:r">n or hy mail.< :harg<: i' I 0 l'l'nh p<:r fi\'<: <·harac· t<:rs <"r day. 
NOTICES  FOR RENT  SENIOR SKI TRIP TO SUGAR LOAF MOUNTAIN!! SPOTS STILL AVAILABLE MARCH 1 ,2,3 $2S.OO DEPOSIT SENIOR  "He's an Einstein ... a Michaelangelo!!!" -AI McGUire  Why pay more? We do it better and we do it cheaper!! Come party wlth ualn DAYTONA!  0. What do you call a barbanan that abuses you with bad jokes ? A. Attila the Pun  
CLASS  OFFICE-1.S  LAFORTUNE  tor Spring Break ·as  
MON-FAI 6-9.  WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI presents  $94 5/room. $104 4/room it you d11ve  
TYPING CAU CHRIS 234-8997  Nice furnished homes for next school year. 277-3604  BEST  TIME-BEST  VALUE:  WHERE:  Student Body President Debates ­hear the candidates ideas -Thursday, February 7 at 7:00 -­Tune in to WVFI!  $1a4 5/room, $194 4/room if we drive Call239-5136 or stop by 1.S LaFortune Mon-Fri 6 to 9 PM  KAMPUS KRUSADE for KUBLA KHAN  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 TYPING JACKIE BOGGS 684-8793  Two students to share apt. stove and refrigerator. good neighbor hood 286­09SS/277 -3604. Efficiency apt. private entrance. good neighborhood. utilities paid 2aa­09SS/277-3604.  DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING BREAK ·as. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­DENTS. CALL 239-5136 OR STOP BY SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1.5 LAFORTUNE, MON-FAI, 6-9pm. OH, VALENTINE!  WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI MARDI GRAS MARDI GRAS MARDI GRAS MARDI GRAS MARDI GRAS  Open to ALL ND/SMC students! South Bend tor Spring Break?? Wouldn'I you rather be In DAYTONA? $94 S/rm. $104 4/rm it you drive $184 S/rm, $194 4/rm il we drive Caii239-S136 or stop by 1.S LaFortune  Give 'em an Inch, end they"ll park In Ill I went to the top of the mountain and I saw Jim. He told me that Bill was a demon .  
Mon-Fri 6 to 9 PM  
WOADPAOCESSING AND TYPING 272-8827 Typing/ Word Processtng ·Term Papers, business letters. etc. We will edit. Call Andrea Price. 283-3880  Rider  RIDES needed to ROCHESTER.  N.Y.  Beet the rueh .... come up to The Obeerver and place your Valentine'• Day personal thla week. We've set aalde a apeclal category juat lor you to get reel gooey wlth your heertthroll. The apeclal day Ia Thuraday, Feb. 14, but avoid long IInee and come In tOday.  Talent Contest and Airband Contest $1 00 First Prize Saturday a P.M. South Dining Hall Come cheer on your favorites, YOU decide the winners $1.50 at the door  Open to all ND/SMC Students! Bruce Sprlngateen live Born In the IJSA Live tape(90 mln).GoOd Sound,lncludee Dancing In the  JAN .... YOU ARE BY FAA THE BEST TRADING PARTNER A CHAP COULD EVER SWAP WITH. THIS CHAP SHARES OUTSTANDING ARE DEFINATELY THE KEYS TO THE KINGDOM........... S  
area. Leaving Wed. 2/13, returning Sun.  l>ark,Pink Cadlllec,Born to Run and 13  
2/17. Call Ed at 272-082a.  othera. Cell 2036. Paat buyera call for  
Trish, Where have you gone? Why does It have to be thts way? Don't you remember any of the limes? The ptcture? The snow­baii?The tallgater? 'Quarters"? and alter-wards??? Talk to me please! I didn't lie  NEED RIDERS FOR ALONG 1-90 TO SYRACUSE 2n-1 0 BILL 4073 Riders needed to Michigan State the weekend of Feb. a. Cali123Sifinterested.  Students of the female persuasion: Beware! Zahm Hall's Hidden Hearts Dance is corning up on Feb. 9. Be ready to hear from your favorite Zahmbie tor the big costume dance.  Win a t11p to the Real MARDI GRAS Free raffle ticket with admission to the Dance-A-Thon This Friday at Stepan Center 6 P.M. to 6 A.M. PARTY ALL NIGHT LONG  newtltlee Parents corning for Jr. Wkd. & have 11owhere to stay? Room at Marriot for resale cheap Call277-a549 Janice.  HI MONTY I WANT A RIDE TO CHITOWN! WILLING TO SHARE ...EXPENSES (WHO COUNTS COUCHES ANYWAY?) ............................................................ BRUCE TURNER  
NEED: Two Bngham Young GA's and one student ticket. Call JACK 2066  LOST One pair of eyeg­Somewhere In North Quad aree. call W .R. 1505  Come see one ol Columbus' best bands: The Danger Brothers Performing at the Mardi Gras Dance-A­Thontrom9P.M.-1 A.M.  WINTER PARK. COLORADO There are still spaces available tor the SAB Spring Break Ski Trip tor $212 (transp. approx. $90 extra). Please contact us immedi­ately: Joe x3296 or Eric at 277-4617.  Hey BRUCE!! Just THREE more days un­til you and your birthday party make his­tory for an unprecedented THIRD year in a row...3 DAYS!!  
SBPNP DEBATE Room 2D Lafortune  Need ride to Columbus on FEB.a SMC 5252.  Anenlion  L.sdies:  This  Friday is  Andy  I Need a AIDE to Miami U. (OXFORD  WINTER PARK winter park WINTER PARK winter park WINTER PARK winter park  BRUCE TURNER  
Thuraday Feb. 7th 7-BPM The New York Times!!! It's not too late to order the New York Times tor campus delivery at 35 cents a day. Contact GEORGE DEVENNY at 145 Stanford Hall 283-2094. NEED TYPING. CALL DOLORES 277­6045. PICKUP AND DEUVERY. RESUMES TYPESET. ARLENE 239­6348. LOST/FOUND LOST: GREEN SWEATER IN CUSHIN(i ROOM 208 IF FOUND, CALL JOHN AT 2196 NO QUESTIONS ASKED  EARN $4-6.00 PEA HOUR. NO EXPERI­ENCE NECESSARY. HAVE FUN AND MAKE MONEY TOO! CALL 232­1622;10AM-5PM THURS.& FRI. FOR SALE Car tape player (cassette) w/AM-FM radio & 2 spkrs. $40. 272-4936. MAXELL TAPES' XLII-90min $25/case of ten. Call 1S96 or 124 Dillon This OREGONIAN may be stuck in dome'sville for spring break but YOU can have his plane ticket home (lor March 12) cheap. at352a. The name is John. TICKETS  Saal's 20th birthday. Please wish this wretch of a human a happy birthday. He's very available... This public service an­nouncement brought to you by the Soci­ety for the Elimination of Loneliness PERSONAL ARE OK.... BUT YOU CAN'T PUT PICTURES IN THEM THE OBSERVER NOW HAS A SPECIAL RATE FOR BIRTHDAY DISPLAY AD WE ACCEPT ANYTHING SHOAT OF NUDIES CALL 239-5303 FOR DETAILS Valentine Glamour Posters. Give that special guy his own poster of you tor Valentine's Day. Black and white or COlor. Posters by nationally published model photographer. Joe Ringer. 2a7-0813. Marc Ram1rez IS a madman. Dear Electro. Thanks very much. you're a comfort to me in my lonely state. Let's call an emer­gency mtg of the LHSC tor Feb. 14. I'm sure I wont be busy. Mellon  Ohio) very badly THIS WEEKEND, Feb. 9th. Will rent a car il necessary. Don't delay, call today. JESSE 208S whtsper. wn1sper, whisper. HEY! I wanted 10 get your attention because the STU­JENT ACTIVITIES BOARD'S TRIPS TO ·'T LAUDERDALE & DAYTONA BEACH jeserve attention. For quality and price, .oc 'an 1beat SAB. Not only do we otter sun & tun but also scuba diving, parties, White Sox baseball, St. Patrick's Day celebrattons Everglade trips, day boat ex­cursions .... To find out more.cell the SAB or inquire at the Record Store. The first informational meeting is Thursday, February 7 at 7pm. , OR A GOOD TIME CALL...SAB' Only ·he STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD of· lers the finest quality tr~ps to FT LAUDERDALE AND DAYTONA BEACH! Sounds interesting? The first informa­tional meeting is on Thursday, February 7 at7pm.  hey man. I'm going to Dayton this weekend and if you want to be a UD Baby then call Bill at 2153 FUN·LOVING WALSH WOMEN need ride to NAPERVILLE or surrounding Western Chtcago suburb, the weekend ol Jan.15-16. Will share costs. Please call Cindy at 2S98 or Miriam at 417 4. .V.:ii'eN··~~..E-'Fit:··;;;;;;;:;;..;\;:;N·,veFi: SAAY!C. GiiisoN~..rHANx..Foii"rfie"icei"rHe GUYSATCAAAOLL MABR. Will you be my Valentine or has Wog stolen your heart already? V-Day Ktsses fly to N.D. many times quickly on our favorite holiday. 19 kisses tor me today' (put it on my tab.) Miles won'! keep me from wishing my Teddy Bear a Happy Valentine's Day. Je T'alme, Johann ·························································•······ SAY IT WITH FLOWERS: Look tor the carnation sales in the South Dining Hall  FASTELAVNSFEST FAS­TELAVNSFESTFASTELAVNSFEST Trapper-Where did you get those cards? Bogey-Aren't your walls bare? Await fur­ther instructions. The Riddlers To everyone who gave me what I wanted lor my Birthday (and even to those who didn't give me anything!) Thanka! Usa Marie Hey Kelly! You're robbing the cradle'! -A jealous roommate ................................................................ Look a horse. I mean a cow! She bit my FACE! OUCH Whose turn to pick her up? Dear SMC Rodent: j:;;;..~·t"ii";;;~~·~:; your fault, I just over-reacted. It won't hap­pen again. Love, 21 F>S. Watch out lor those sp&Clals ··············································· HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY MONIOUEII Love Ya. Mtchele  
THE EGG ROLL EXPRESS  tor a chance to send a flower to your  HEY STANFORD BEACH BUMS! THE  
LOST Black trench coat at Corby's on Jan. 14 It had all of my I.D.s in it so please return as soon as posstble. Reward of­fered. Call Kay at 2903 or 2939.  BIG BUCKS need 4 SYRACUSE stud ti~ call Mark x1204  I'll buy Valentine's Day gifts ... not  "Homemade Egg Rolls" OPEN Weekends Friday------11-2am Saturday----11-2am  Valentine. OBUD GRIPE NIGHT  SURF AND SAND ARE GREAT BUT THE NUMBER ONE STUD IS PUTTING ME OUT TO PASTURE SO DON'T FOR­GET YOUR FAVORITE LITTLE NUISANCE. LOVE, UNICE. DELILAH  
LOST: a gold Citizen watch on Sunday  NEED 2 STUD OR GA FOR SYRACUSE CALL JOANNE 2a00  Get in? Get over? Get lhrough? Get out'  Sunday------9-12am Located Lewis Hall Basement  Wadneaday, Feb. 6  AND ALL THE GANG  
Jan. 27. somewhere between Zahm and the North Dining. Hall. If found. please call Tornatat1244  GO AHEAD-MAKE MY DAY. NEED ONE TIC FOR BYU OR WASH. MATT  The NUKE THE COMMIE AUSKIES club  SEE CHILE FREE  4:45 to 6:45PM North Dining Hall  HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THE YELLOW SUB 272-4453 MD-TH 8·11 pm FA-SA apm-1 am  
3718.  is now forming. For information on how to  SUNDAY  
Found: 1 p81r ol blue and grey gloves in 356 Fitz. Call 4223  join and keep the world safe democracy call Torn Halpin at 2397.  for  7-a:30pm Canter lor Social Concerns  Monika, The BEAR is ours. He makes a great floormat! II you want to see the little  
Loet: A betge wool hat wtth brown stripes. Lost sometime Saturday mght. II lound. please call Eric a1 283-4352  HELP' My bro is coming down tor the Syracuse game and my btrthday this weekend. Ill don't have a ticket lor him, 1 don't get my btrthday present!! Please  The classifeds are NOT a toy. ······················ ........................ RACE THOMAN! VOTE RACE FOR  CHILEyCHILEyCHILE FREE  ••. detalla tomorrow  guy again-"Monica. Help I can't BEAR it!"-(slap!) Explain in 2S words or less the concepts of God and energy. Submit by mtdnight. -the BEARnappers  
help me get my gifl·call Sharon at 2a11.  O.C. SENATOR.  and  BUZZ CLUB BUZZ CLUB BUZZ CLUB  
LOST: one pair of black leather gloves on 1130 somewhere around the art butlding or Lalotune. II found please call Mike at 277-382a.  ··································· .................... . NEED 3 TIX FOR SYRACUSE GAME. , CALL 239-7204 OR 233-3412.  ................................................................ SARAH BROKE A NAIL!!!! Happy birthday Heather. sorry tor being late  IN COLOR SUNDAY 7-a:30pm Center for Social Concerns  CAMPUS VIEW CAMPUS VIEW CAMPUS VIEW ... THE LEGACY LIVES ON. DICK, YOU AND MEN ???? SIN­ To Mark ·­Cindy's date who wasn't -Thanks lor helping out with our practical joke! Sorry you couldn't come tubing, It was tun! Julie, Elizabeth, and Cindy  
CIERELY, A REAL MAN  
To Whomever Found My Walle! In The Parking Lot: I desperately need thai $200. PLEASE return it 10 the !oet and found or the law school. no questions asked. Lon L.Guuo  Need 1 Syracuse student or GA at3646 HELP! Need Syracuse lix -G.A. or stu· dent. Caii1S70.  LAWS OF MR. GOODWENCH THE LOOKS LAW · THE LOOK OF A GIRL ARE DIRECTLY PROPORTIONAL TO THEIR MAJOR: 9. BUS. a. SCI. a. yEG 7. A&L y WHO SAID BEATYFUL GIRLS DIDN'T HAVE BRAINS  CHILE CHILE CHILE  DJK: Have fun this weekend, but don'tfor­get about me! WANTED: A real man. Domers need not apply. Bnan Q. this means you!  To Joe-my date who was-isn't it great to be able to feel your toes agam? I hope you don't give cereal flakes to all the gtrts (or is that just lor brunettes?) I don't plan on changing my hair color soon. but I'll lend you my socks anytime. Cindy P.S.  
-­ LOST PACKET OF STUDENT BB TICK­ETS. SECTION 103 REWARD CALL LEIGHANN SMC 4451 LOST-One blue left hand glove. lost at the ACC on Jan. 20. II found please call Mark at 2450. LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETTER JACKET IS STILL AT LARGE. REWARD FOR' ANY INFORMATION LEADING TO THE AR­REST AND CONVICTION OF ITS CAP­TORS. PLEASE CALL J.R. REID AT 277-7561 IF YOU HAVE ANY KNOWL­ Need 1 Syracuse ttcket Sudent or GA Call Margie SMC 4294 Need two Syracuse tickets. Call Dan at 2275 Amy Falkosky wtll do ANYTHING for 2 or more GA's for Syracuse. Call284-5529 WANTED: 1 GA OR STUD TICKET FOR THE SYRACUSE GAME. BIG BUCKSII!II CALL CHESTER AT 2343 OR 2347.  REMEMBEH THE KEENAN REVUE PARTY? THE ONLY DJS THAT MAT­TER! (ALIAS PAT MURPHY AND DON SEYMOUR) WILL BE AT CtiATAQUA, THIS FRIDAY FEBRUARY 8 AT 9PM DJING A DANCE SPONSORED BY THE NOTRE DAME OJ SOCIETY. COME ONE. COME ALL TO THE ONLY DANCE THAT MATTERS! ADMISSION: $1 SPONGE-BATH-· What do you care anyway? ATTENTION: Today is the provocative  SUNDAY 7-a:30 Center for Social Concerns FORGET FLORIDA!! SKI ASPEN. ::;oLORADO THIS SPRING BREAK, AND GET A TAN TOO. $3971NCLUDES TRANSPORTATION, 7 NIGHTS LODGING, AND A 6 DAY LIFT PASS TO ALL FOUR OF ASPEN'S MOUNTAINS. IF INTERESTED CALL 3630 OR 3573. To my love, MMy Loul..Padden,  DEAR DAVE, WE'RE COMING OVER TONIGHT SO SAVE US SOME CAKE. DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO DRINK? HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY! LOVE, ANGIE &PENNY DAVIE WAVIE, TODAY IS THE DAY OF YOUR BIRTH WE'RE GLAD YOU'RE WITH US HERE ON EARTH. YOU FINALLY TURNED TWENTY. SO HAVE FUN APLENTY, ONLY ONE MORE YEAR TILL YOU'RE 21!  Bundle up-it's a cold world oullhere! To Dan-Thanks lor going tubtng.l had a super time. Stop by somettme-I promise we won'! serve you chips on the floor again. Elizabeth To Mike -­40 does it! Sorry lubing's not skiing, but then we're not Marathon Men. are we? Thank goodness! Julie HEY DID YOU KNOW BECKY GOODELL IS 20 No longer a teenager' Happy Belated B-DAY Your Philo. Buddy ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS STU­ 
EDGE OF ITS WHEREABOUTS.  Jessica Quinn's birthday. All admirers,  From a secret admirer.  DENTS!  
YO ADRIAN I OR ANYONE ELSE WHO LOST A SCARF AT THE FRI. NITE SHOWING OF "ROCKY". CALL MIKE  PERSONALS  friends, and "relatives" are invited to wish her a happy birthday with a kiss. From: second floor. ................................................................ MIKE LAMBERTO: Thanks for the ticket.  ll'a goOd to be the King!II II she's a hoser. then the monster knows  Wanted DEAD or ALIVE: LEUA BURKE For roommate abuse. Has been known to terrorize her roommate Jayne Call 284· 429S if seen. Help save a life.  VOTE JIM HAGAN FOR O.C. SENATOR. I WILL WORK FOR: BET­TER PARKING MORE BUS RUNS CHEAPER MEAL PLANS  
X2384 TO CLAIM. GO FOR IT !I FOUND EARRINGS at KEENAN REVUE PARTY IN KEENAN SATURDAY NIGHT  oAR HoosE~ <:<io.iieiiR'·;;·uouOfi: CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  My agent paid you, right? Riders needed to Michigan State the weekend of Feb. a. Call1235itinterested.  her!! I Wanna Know where Lev is !!! FOR SALE: ONE ROUND-TRIP TICKET  Pookie. Hi! Just a note to let you know you're on my mind. I couldn't resist' Me  Ed Hickey is dateless for the Tri-Mil and needs desperate helpl x1191  
II they're yours, contact Father Dave in AM 120 Keenan.  1~·;;;;;;;·~-;;i;~~~~...............................  ANYWHERE PIEDMONT FLIES GOOD UP TILL 12-10-BS. NEED TO SELL  MRS. GOODFRENCI1, lila obvloua that, wlth your conatant  
TICKETS:  Need  TWO  tickets  lor  the  ....  ....................  QUICKLY. MIKE 3542  a. What do you call a barbarian priestess  retl•nce  on  referring  to  me  •a  a  
LOST: DARK WOOL BLUE BERET, Spenish inscripUon. Have pity-was my Grandfather's Anna 277-4745. Loet: Organtzation Theory and Design by Richard O.h at South Dining Hall Monday at lunch.~ call Mike at 1166.  Syracuse game. 1 need these desperately'!! My girlfriend is corning up and wtll kill me (not to mention things she WON'T do ) d I don't gat these tickets. Please help out a fellow Dorner who hun't seen hie beautiful girlfriend in a long. LONG time!! Call Dan at 2275 today!  Help! 1-ntto mMI the beautiful girl at leal Sat.'a 9:00 "Rocky." Front row, 2nd from the right In • group of glrla, with a funky •-•· and 1a1w at Kean~~n. P.....call William x34601 ................................................................ AI McGuire: a renaissance man  Attn: All ND/SMC Students DAYTONAIII lor$94 ???? Call: 239-S136 OR Stop by: 1.5 LaFortune l!'lenior Class Office\ Mon-Fn 6 to 9 PM  ? A. Attila the Nun a. What do you call a loaf of bread that attacka you ? A. Attil•lhe Bun  DOMER, you leek the ability to come up wlth mora th•n one orlglonal thought a yeer. IN A BATTLE OF THE MINDS BETWEEN US, YOU ARE UNARMEDI!! MR. GOOOWENCH  

-
. I 
Wednesday, February 6, 1985-page 11
Sports Briefs 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
today at 6 p.m. in O'Shaugnessy room 204. -The Observer 
CoRee Soccer will be played today at 9 p.m. in the An­gela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
Bodyfat measurementswill be provided free by NVA today from 6:15p.m. to 7:30p.m. at the NVA office in the ACC. Anyone interested should report to the office wearing shorts and short sleeves. -The Observer 
NCAAbasketballtournamentticketsfor 
the Southeast Regional games to be played at the ACC on March 14 and 16 will go on sale for students tomorrow at the ACC. -The Observer 
An interhall swimming meet is being 
sponsored by NVAon Feb. 19. Hall representatives m~st submit a list ofentries and divers provide a list ofdives to Dennis Stark by Feb. 18. For more information, call Coach Stark at 239-6222.-The Observer 
The Notre Danle.JVhockeyteamtook two 
games from the Ferris State juniors last weekend. In the first game, Pat Butler had two goals and Carl Bastien had three assists to lead the Irish to a 7-4 victory. Bastien and Ted Gradel scored two goals each in Notre Dame's 5-2 win in the second game. The Irish will take their six-game winning streak to Ferris State next weekend in an attempt to avenge their only loss. -The Observer 
The Notre Dante Squash Club will play host 
to the regional Insilco tournament on Feb. 15, 16 and 17 at the ACC. 
Two winners will receive an expense-paid trip to Chicago in April. 
All members of the student body, faculty or staff are invited to sign 
up by Wednesday, Feb. 13, in the ACC. -The Observer 
An interhall wrestling tournament is 
being sponsored by NVA. For information, contact the NVA office at 239-6100. The deadline for entries is Wednesday, Feb. 13. -The Observer · 
Observer Sports Brie& are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written.-The Observer 
St. John's keeps number one ranking 
Box Score  
Last Night's Results  
Notre Dame 81, Dayton 66  
Notre Dame(81)  
M FG-A FT-A R F p  
Ebben 34 4-7 2-2 5 4 10  
Schueth 32 5-7 8-10 7 4 18  
Both am 35 6-12 3-4 8 2 15  
Gavin 37 1-2 1-3 1 1 3  
Keys 37 9-17 12-16 6 4 30  
Brommeland 10 2-5 1-2 2 0 5  
Basford 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0  
Dougherty 3 0-0 0-0 0 0 0  
Kaiser 9 0-0 0-0 4 1 0 Barron 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 200 27-50 27-37 33 16 81  1  
FG Pet. .540. FT Pet. -.730. Team  ~  
rebounds -1. Turnovers -11. Assists -16  
(Ebben 7, Gavin 6). Technicals-none.  ~  
Dayton(66) M FG-A FT-A R F p  i  
West 19 2-7 1-2 3 3 5  ~  
Cahill 17 4-5 3-4 4 1 11 Yingling 21 7-17 2-7 9 3 16 Byers 40 3-8 2-2 1 4 8 • Abla 34 6-9 0-0 2 5 12 O'Brien 15 2·3 o-o 3 1 4  ...  I J j j  
Kruty 11 2-5 o-o 4 2 4  
Klette 12 1-2 o-o 2 4 2  ~  
Dickerson 18 2-4 o-o 4 3 4  J  
Curd 13 0-3 0-0 3 5 0  
200 29-63 8-15 35 31 66  
FG Pet. .460. FT Pet. -.533. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers -16. Assists -17 (Abla 4, West 3). Technicals-none.  1 J  
4  
APTopT-,  
The Top T-.ty college basketball teams In  
Tile Aasociated Press poll, with first-place votee  
In !Wenm-. this 188100'8 rec:onla and total  
points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre  
Dame opponents are italicized.  



DON'T MISS IT! 
The informational meeting for: 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
(The leader in entertainment) 

FLORIDA TRIPS­
FT.LAUDERDALE 
$299.00 
and 
DAVTONA BEACH 
$199.00 
Is Thursday, February 7th at 7:00 in Lafortune LiHie Theatre 
Or call the S.A.B. at 239-7757 
$75.00 deposits due by Feb.14 
Sign-ups at the record store 
1. St. Johns's (60) 18-1 1238 2. Georgetown (1) 19-2 1153 

Associated Press panel of sports writers and place vote and 1, I53 points. gia Tech (704) to complete the Top 
broadcasters. Memphis State, I 7-1, received the Ten. 
3. Memphis St. (1) 17-1 1126 St. John's, which puts its 13-game Last week St. John's beat Provi­remaining No. 1 vote and 1,126 Nevada-Las Vegas, boasting a 16­
4. So. Methodia1 18-2 1033 5. Duke 16-3 
Q09

winning streak on the line Saturday dence 77-60 and Connecticut 97-64 points, 93 ahead of Southern Meth­game winning streak, the longest 
6. Syracuse 15-3 8119 

in a Big East Conference road game and is one of four Big East teams in odist, 18-2. winning streak in Division I, leaped 
1. Ol<lahoma 114 855 8. Michigan 16-3 769

against Villanova, remained No. I for the Top 20. Three of those, St. from No. 16 to head the SecondTen. 
•
9. llinois 18-5 748

the second straight week in the As­John's, Georgetown and Syracuse, Duke, sixth last week, moved up a Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana Tech, 
10. Georgia Tech 164 704 11. Nev.-Las Vegas 17-2 4S8 12. Iowa 184 419 

sociated Press college basketball are in the top six. notch with 909 points. Syracuse, the North Carolina, Oregon State, Tulsa, 
poll announced yesterday. Georgetown stayed No. 2, only team besides St. John's to beat DePaul, Villanova and Maryland 
13. Kansas 184 393 Memphis State No. 3 and Southern Georgetown, advanced from No. 9 round out the Top Twenty. 
14. Louisiana Tech 18-2 380 15. North Carolina 16-5 365

The 18-I Redmen. who had to Methodist No. 4. to sixth with 899 points, while Okla­
16. Oregon St. 164 295 come from I4 points down to beat The_Hoyas, 19-2, who held the top homa remained No. 7 with 855. Iowa, 18-4, is the only newcomer 
17. Tulsa 17-3 2n 
18. DePaul 14-5 210

Seton Hall 87-76 Monday night, at­spot in the preseason poll and the to the poll this weekafter registering 
19. Vollanova 14-5 187 tracted 60 of62 first-place votes and first nine regular-season polls before Michigan ( 769 points) was eighth road victories over Big Ten Confer­
20. Maryland 18-6 155 

I,238 points from the nationwide losing two straight, landed one first-followed by Illinois (748) and Geor-ence rivals Indiana and Ohio State. 
l 
something extra special 

SKI $389 
per person

SPRING BREAK 

MARCH 16 -23 1985 WINTER PARK 
Prices based upon 4 -8 per unit OPTIONAL LIFT TICKETS 
AND RENTALS AVAILABLE 

For reservations ask for Dawn 
Package Includes: 
* 
Roundtrip non-atop service between South Bend and llellver 

* 
Charter motorcoacb transfers 

* 
7 nights accommodations at the High Country Haus Condo& 

* 
Daily Ski Shuttle 

* 
All t:axea 



~,ource
-. ravel 

Box 1602 o South Bend, Indiana 46634 • (219)236-2856 
--------~------­
The Observer Vlednesday, February 6, 1985-page 12 
Boston College must prove there's life after Flutie in Kickoff Classic 
Assodated PrCM play two-hand touch below the 6-foot junior Mike Willging, who belt," Edwards said. "But we did play started several games for the Univer­
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.. Brig-decent defense, we had a great kick­sity ofCincinnati in 1983. ham Young University, with nothing ing game and a pretty good running "I'm looking forward to finding left to prove In the wake of Its first game." out what it will be like without national championship, will play in Edwards, who has a 118-37-1 Doug," Bicknell said. "It was almost the third annual Kickoff Classic record in 13 seasons, calls BYU "a nice the way the Cotton Bowl went · against Boston College, which must new entity" in the world ofbig-time cold, raw, windy, with Doug having prove It can compete with the elite football. a so-so day. It proved to our own of major-college football without Boston College's Eagles have now players we weren't a one-man quarterback Doug Flutie. played in three consecutive bowls -team." 
The BYU-B.C. pairing Is set to a school record -and topped off a Tuesday's announcement of the kickoff the next college football 10-2 1984 season by defeating Hous­BYU-B.C. pairing came shortly after 
~ 
season at 76,000-seat Giants ton 45-28 in the Cotton Bowl and Flutie held his first news conference
t Stadium on Aug. 29. It features not finishing fifth in the Associated Press as a professional a few miles away in only the two highest-ranked teams poll. New York City. He signed a five­• possible but also two of the most BYU and B.C. finished 1-2 in total year, S7 million contract on Monday L potent offenses in the country. offense, 1-3 in passing and 2-1 in with the New Jersey Generals of the 
l 

~ "I don't think this team next year •scoring last season. But while the United States Football League.
, 
has to do anything to prove what we Cougars return an established quar· got last year," BYU coach LaVell Ed-terback In Bosco, Boston College wards said yesterday at a news con-must find a successor to Flutie, who ference officially announcing the set major-college records for pass­
' matchup. "As far as I'm concerned, ing and total offense and won the last year is over." Heisman Trophy. 
Where BYU is at right now, to the "My main job is to take the pres-dismay of the critics who rapped its sure off whoever the quarterback supposedly soft 1984 schedule,ls on will be," said Coach Jack Bicknell, top. The Cougars' 24-17 Holiday whose record in four years at B.C. is Bowl triumph over Michigan made 32-14-1, including a 5-6 mark in them only the second major-college 1981. team In the past 80 years to post a The leading candidates are 6-foot­13-0 record; their 24-game winning 4 senior Shawn Halloran, who was streak is the longest in the nation. Flutie's backup the last two years but 
"I suspect a lot of people around threw only six passes last season; 6­the country, and particularly those foot senior Steve Peach, a former In the East, thought all Brigham starter at Syracuse University but 
Young did was throw the ball and strictly a punter for B.C. last fall, and 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT 
Presents... 
MARDI GRAS 
FRIDAY: DANCE-A-THON 
Stepan Center-6 p.m.-6 a.m. $2 ticket admission is raffle chance on 
Free Trip to New Orleans 
for the real Mardi Gras! 6 -8: Big Twist & Mellow Fellows 
Jazz Bandfrom Chi-Town 
9 -1: Rock with the Danger Bros. 1-6: D.J. SATURDAY: Airband & Talent Contest 
8:00-South Dining Hall $1.50 Admission, judged by audience appreciation 
$100°° First Prize in each Contest ............................................ GET INVOLVED: The StudentActivities Board Is Lookin:·~:·•·•~••••m••• 


s~~:~::~:! 
WANTED 

Hotel Night Desk Clerk Full Time 
Must be available through summer. 
Please call233-1154 for an interview appointment 
FOR RENT 
furnished, 3 bedroom home washer & dryer . close to campus 
4 Roommates Needed 
Only $125.00 each 
c;_a11287-0148forapt. 


t••·············~~~~~···1 
: AMIGO'S AMERICAN • 
i 
Presents RESTAURANT : 


: 1s 
i ~~~llC~ .DAN6~~~~~~T~USI 

i 


needs PHOTOGRAPHERSI 1-Full time (Weekends) 3-Features 
Darkroom experience is required 
Call Pete Laches 283-5303 or stop by The Observer office for application and job description. 
CONTROLLER i •• ~~ OF THE 
GENERALI BUSINESS MNGR. i V 
APPLICATIONSAVAILABLEAT: • • 
ALMOST BAND 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD OFFICES_j • (2nd FLOOR of LAFORTUNE) • • 
-APPLICATIONSDUEFEBRUARYll-: 6:30pm tO 1Q:QQpm •



,,---------------...,. :
* I + Frozen Margaritas Draft Beer +
I ScholasticMagazine I·+ &Cocktails $1.25 $1.00 + 
I will be accepting applications for* I + : I Editor-in-Chief. I + + 
I ******************* I +
I Applications available Monday, 2 I 4 I 85 1 •• -.... .: 
1

intheStudentActivitiesomce. 2313 E. Edison (At Ironwood)
1

I *************************** 1 :. 1 m1"le east of Notre Dame ••
Applications due Friday, 2 I 8 I 85 in the same office.~ ~ • :
I
\.....______________,I+..............................• 
----~-----------------------_..---­
The Observer Wednesday, February 6, 1985-page 13 
Explorers 
continuedfrom page 16 
and all of them are back· again this season. Steve Black, a 6-4 senior guard, led the way with 18 points in the last meeting between these teams, while moving up to seventh place on LaSalle's all-time leading scorers list last season with his 19.1 points-per-game average. 
Other starters returning include 6-6 senior Ralph Lewis, who averaged over 20 points per game last season and canned 14 against the Irish. Senior center Albert Butts, who had 17 points against the Irish, and Larry Koretz, a 6-8 sophomore who scored 13 in that game, also will be back tonight. Rounding out the lineup should be junior Chip Green­berg, a 6-4 guard. 
Notre Dame has a considerable height advantage over the Ex­plorers, so the Irish should be able to grab the rebounds that will enable them to run the fast break. If Notre Dame can open up a large lead early, the Explorers will not be able to hold the ball as long as they gener­ally like to, and they may be taken 
out oftheir gameplan. 
The key to the game for the Irish, then, probably will be to force LaSalle into a position where it has to come from behind. 
Catching up to the Irish in the ACC usually is not an easy. task, but Mihalich said his players probably will not be intimidated. 
"I really believe playing at Notre Dame is an inspiration to our kids," he said. "They get pretty pumped up to play in front ofa good crowd in a good basketball atmosphere. If there's anything to worry about, it's that maybe our kids will get a little too pumped up." 
Notre Dame will have to avoid the opposite probblem: taking its op­ponent too lightly. With the UCLA victory still lingering in the memory · and the Syracuse matchup just over the horizon, it may be hard for the Irish to get fired up for this midweek game. 
With a game against a Top 10 team next weekend, the Irish will be in good shape if they can stay on a roll tonight. 


Sullivan 
continuedfrom page 16 
surround the rules, it is putting a great deal of pressure on those schools or athletes that try to com­pete by the original precepts of the rules. 
It is this conflict between those who follow the rules as they are written and those who don't that is going to lead to problems. 
We are gradually reaching the point where, unless something is done, those competitors like Notre Dame that try to play fair are going to have to choose between keeping up with the crowd so they can win or stick to their guns and, probably, fall behind. Because winning is so important to a school's finances, be­cause winning can mean a lot of money to an individual athlete, this is not an easy choice. Even Notre Dame will be hurting financially ifit falls too far behind. 
Admittedly, this is a pretty pes­simistic outlook on the current sit­uation, but it is hard to be optimistic when NCAA Executive Director Walter Byers has shown a very defeatist attitude about the cheating. in college athletics by admitting that the NCAA can't keep up with the cheaters. The NGAA committee also· doesn't seem real eager to attack the problem as it is dragging its feet on more stringent academic guidelines and drug reforms. And it's hard to expect public pressure to come out against cheaters when alumni, not schools, are doing most ofthe cheat­ing. 
Maybe it's time for everyone con­nected with amateur(I use that term loosely) sports to take a timeout, catch their breath, and take a look at the mess that has developed. 
The race to the finish line has turned ugly as individuals have decided that they can't win by relying on their own resources. Somebody else's blood, some pills, an illiterate basketball star whatever it takes to get that edge. Maybe ifpeople are allowed to stop and see what they are doing to them­selves, they might think twice about ft. 
Presently, there doesn't seem to be a big push from athletes and offi­cials to clean up "amateur" sports. Granted, there are some exceptions, but it seems that everyone is looking around waiting for the other guy to make the first move. Only the NCAA and the various ruling bodies have the ability to force a large-scale move, something ther. have been strangely unwilling ItO d~. 
It's not too late, though. Once the overgrowth is removed and the rules are made clear to everyone, maybe amateur athletics can return to some semblance offair play. 
Southall, NY all-stater, will cometoND 
AssociatedPress 

ROCHESTER, N.Y. -Cornelius "Corny" Southall, an all-state defen­sive back for Rush-Henrietta Sperry High School, will attend Notre Dame on a full football scholarship, it was announced yesterday. 
Southall, who is 6-foot-2 and 180 pounds, rushed for 988 yards and scored nine touchdowns as a senior. On defense, he made 60 tackles and had four interceptions. 
Notre Dame Coach Gerry Faust recruited Southall primarily as a tail­back on offense and secondarily as a cornerback on defense, Sperry Coach Werner Kleemann said. 
Faust flew into Rochester Tuesday to meet with Southall at the subur­ban high school and confirm the player's verbal commitment, 
• Kleemann said. Southall was recruited by more than 50 colleges and finally narrowed his choices to Notre Dame, Virginia, Syracuse, Penn State and Arizona. Southall, who had grades of B 'and B-plus, said he liked Notre Dame's academic program, Kleemann said. 
In Southall's three varsity seasons, Sperry's teams had a record of 24-5­
2. Last season, he was often a one­man show as the injury-riddled Comets finished 4-4-1. 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION­
THE EARLY·&BIRD... _.!/  
PREPARE FOR: Classes starting Feb.17  
DAY Ca~l Days Evenina:s &Weekends 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135  


NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS. 
•

ROOMMATES NEEDED! 
Boys and Girls • 
Call office 3-6 DAILY 234-6647 
You're about to make a very impor­tant decision. Where should you begin your engineering career? You want to be challenged and work in astimulat­ing environment. You want to work for acompany that will recognize your contributions. Where will you go? Agood choice would be Martin Marietta Denver Aerospace. Martin Marietta's matrix organiza­tion will provide you unusual flexibility in determining your career path and accomplishing your personal goals. Here, your talents will be recognized. Your contributions will be rewarded. In addition, you'll often be chal­lenged by some of the mostinteresting assignments available in space and defense systems. For example, we accepted NASA's challenge to design and develop a backpack propulsion system which would acc(Jrately and safely move astronauts through space without the use of atether. Fifteen years later, on February7, 1984, the Manned Maneu­vering Unit was successfully tested. This paved the way for the Solar Max repair mission in April '84. Future applications of the MMU are now being considered.  The MMU is just one of many responsibilities we have on the Space Shuttle program. And the Shuttle program is one of hundreds of long­term projects you may experience at Martin Marietta Aerospace. We also have opportunities avail­able in Baltimore, Maryland; Orlando, Florida; New Orleans, Louisiana; and at Vandenberg AFB on the central California coast. Now that you're about to step out into the world, consider an engineer­ing career at Martin Marietta Denver Aerospace. See our representative on campus February 20, 21 After interviewing with our repre­sentative, pick up our full color calendar poster of the Manned Maneuvering Unit (pictured here). If unable to interview at this time, please send your resume to: Martin Marietta Denver Aerospace, College Relations Department, P.O. Box 179, Mail #L1312, Denver, CO 80201. Martin Marietta is an Affirmative Action Employer actively seeking the Handicapped and Veteran. U.S. Citizenship is required.  GRADUAnNGENmNEERS WHEN YOU STEP OUT INTO THE WORLD, YOU'LL WANT TO WORK WITH THE BEST TECHNOLOGYAVAILABLE. MARTIN MARIETTA  

. ·' 


The Observer "lednesday, February 6, 1985-page 14 
St. Mary's basketball team wins close game 



By PAM CUSICK 
Sports Writer 
'Ibe Saint Mary's basketball team struAAied, but still managed to put forth an impressive battle before fal­ling to Grace College Monday night, 69-67, at tht: Angela Athletic Facility. 

l 
The Bdles look to Valparaiso Tuesday night to hopefully improve their current record which now stands at 3· I I. The team had been victorious in a gam~: against rival St. Francis College, 65-6.2, in a game it hosted this past weekend. 
'!be Belks' attitude, quickness 
and hustle made the contest against 

l Grace a close game, according to Head Coach Marvin Wood, even though the opposition eventually won out. 
"Our" quickness made it a close game," said Woodd after the game. "We had great hustle and a good atti­tude but they (Grace College) reached over us." 
The Belles rallied consistently with Grace throughout both the first and second half. At the end of the first half, Grace topped the Belles by a slim margin, 40-39. 
With approximately 8:20 left in the remainder of the second half, Saint Mary's pulled ahead to a rather comfortable lead, leading by a score of 55-48. 
The game's momentum had taken a swing in the Belles' favor at the end' of the first half, and it seemed a win was within the team's grasp. 
"The momentum turned at the end of the first half and we tried to come back the second half," said top-scorer Beth Kreher. 
Despite the Belles' outstanding ef­fort, shooting percentage and defen­sive performance, they lost their momenrum. Grace College stole the 7-point lead Saint Mary's had thought it could maintain, and went on to win by two points. 
Kreher finished with 20 points 

I t and seven rebounds while Radke helped out with 18 points and seven assists. Pantelleria and senior for­ward Elaine Suess both contributed eight ao;sists and five rebounds. 
"We played very welL It was a hard-fought game and a tough­fought battle," said freshman center Stephanie Duke after the game. 
Over the weekend, the Saint Mary's basketball team hosted what turned out to be quite a showdown against rival St. Francis College. The Belles continued to rally throughout the game and finally won by the score 65-62. 
The Belles and St. Francis were tied at 27-27 at the end of the first half, but St. Mary's JUmped ahead to a 57-44 lead in the second half of the contest. However, the team wa<; put to the test at the end of the game when St. Francis threatened and al­most caught the Belles. 
"They (St. Francis) rallied and al­most caught us. It came right down to the wire," said Coach Wood. 
Offensively, Kreher, Radke, and Suess were the Belles' leading scorers with 22, 13 and 11 points, respectively. Pantilleria, Radke, Seuss and Duke each pulled down four rebounds for St. Mary's. 

Saint Mary's is looking to play well  
against  Valparaiso  next  Tuesday  
night at 7:00 p.m. in the Angela Ath­ 
letic Facility.  
"We  have  a  whole  week  of  Guard Mary Gavin contributed six assists last  the first-place team in the conference going into  
practice ahead  of us  and  we  are  night in Notre Dame's 81-66 victory over Dayton,  the game. See Larry Burke's write-up on page 16.  
ready to go," adds Duke.  



Notre Dame swimmers take two wins 
By DAVE WILSON 
Sports Writer 
As a final farewell to varsity swim­ming at Rockne Memorial, the Notre Dame women's swimming team ex­tended its winning streak to seven meets as they overwhelmed· the Hornets of Kalamazoo yesterday af­terno~ by a score of78-53. 
"We are improving," said assistant coach john Gibbons. "The times are lower, and we are looking to be in good shape for conference competi­tion." 
Kalamazoo took the early lead with a victory in the 400-yard med-

ARE YOUR COWGE FINANCES IN CRITICAL CONDITION? 
Joining the Army Reserve can reduce your college costs. 
If you qualify, our Educational Assistance program will pay up to 
$1,000 a year of your tuition for four years. 
If you have taken out a National Direct or Guaranteed Student Loan since October 1, 1975, our Loan Forgiveness pro­gram will repay 15'7'oofyour debt (up to $10,000) or $500, which­ever is greater, for each year you serve. 
If you'd like to find out more about how a Reserve enlistment can help pay for college, call the number below. Or stop by. 
ARMY RESERVE. BE AUYOU CAN BE. 

:**** * * * * * * * * * * * ****:
t DISTINGUISHED STUDENT ~ £ AWARD : 
~ * 
~ * 
: The Notre Dame Alumni Assodation will be accepting nominations : ~ from February 1 to February 22 for the 4th annual Distinguished Student ~ ~ Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor an out-* 
~ ~ 
: standing senior student at the University based on the following criteria: j 
~ * 
: 1) Service to Notre Dame, : ~ 2) Service to the Community, and, * ~ ~ 3) Good Academic Standing. * 
: Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on 1* : the second floor of the Administration Building, and at the Center for ; ~ Social Concerns. ~ 
~ * 
: Nominations must be submitted to the Association by Feb. 22, 1985. : 
~ I * 
****************************************************** 
ley relay, but the Irish went on to win the next six events, and took a commanding 46-1 5 lead. Highlights of these events included a meet record 11:39.12 in the 1,000-yard freestyle by Eva Baerlocher, a one­two-three Irish sweep in the 100­yard backstroke, which included a victory and meet record 1:04.31 for Barbara Byrne, and a meet record 
25.75 in the 50-yard freestyle by Julie Boss. 
The team continued to dominate the meet in the second half, and were victorious in fourteen of the total sixteen events. Suzanne DeVine turned in the fourth meet record for the Irish, as she captured first place in the 500-yard freestyle with an excellent time of 5:17.53. DeVine was also victorious earlier in the meet, winning the 200-yard but­terfly in 2:12.06. 
Byrne picked up a second meet victory in winning the 200-yard backstroke, and Amy Darlington placed first in both the 200-yard freestyle and the 200-yard individ­ual medley. 
In diving competition, Lynn Ach­terberg posted a rare first for Kalamazoo on 1the 1-meter board, storing 226 points and just edging out And"rea Bonny of Notre Dame. 
r----= Wednesday, February 6 ~ 
L__::ARTER BEERS ~t!i 

l 
Thursday, February 7 
TOGAPAR'IY 
9-dose
n .00 Mbred Drfnlre 
Watch ""Atdmal H~"j4~"s~~:::,~i,!}'JJ In toga 
Friday, February 8 
90' IMPORTS 9. close [ "The Best Deal in Town" 

·------1 
Bonny was victorious on the 3­metcr board, however, as she tallied 
228.75 points, her only competition being teammate Colleen Ambrose with 217.80 points. 
Notre Dame is now 8-1 for the season, .while Kalamazoo dropped to 3-3. The team now prepares to travel to Indianapolis on Friday. The Irish will face St. Louis, Vincennes, and Xavier in a triple-dual meet that eve­ning at 7:15pm. 
The Notre Dame men's swimming team defeated Kalamazoo in a later meet by a score of 64-49. This vic­tory upped the team's record to 4-4. 
~4(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------W·e•d•n•e-sd_a_y_,F_e_b_ru
__ary__6_,_1_9_8_5_-_P_ag•e-1..5 
Doonesbury 
HUH? THI5MU5T8C 0 MY LJJ(J(YW.YI 
\. 


Tank McNamara 

Garry Trudeau 
WHOTH/3. NAM/3.'5 50WM. I 8ROKEIN. HEi-1-AJ<£ NIGCL 5CRJ.JM. CAN I ASK YOU YOI.F •Nw YORK POST" A F£IAJ Qj}5Tf0NSl 
" 
\ 
Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 


When snakes trip. 
Bloom County 
Berke Breathed 
( 
116Y/ YA MINNA 60 1iJ JAil ?.. f5 miT' WHI/f YA /1Rfr.7 YA WIWNA f£T' UJCI<Etl 1/P WITH RAI'IS,-,, ~KfKS 
IWP ffJP€ /16(/5eKfJ 1.. 
I 
liEU 1 CAN'T' 1£/.P tf YA WN'r ~,tl€. Olff. lf8U} .? 

Campus 
•12:10-12:55 
p.m.-SMC Art Noontalk, "At The Onset of the Renaissance: Masaccio, Brunelleschi and Donatello," Prof. Giovanna Sandusky, SMC, Room 232 Moreau Hall. 

•3:30 
p.m. · Seminar, "Using Wind Tunnels & Computers Together," Dr. James Hackett, Lockheed Georgia Co, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•3:30 
-4:30 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, SPF Full-Screen Editor, Room 230 Computing Center, Free, Available to Public, Call 239-5604 to Regis· ter. 

•3:30 
· 4:30 p.m. · Computer Minicourse, Lotus( 1 ), Room I04 Computing Center, Call 239· 5604 to Register. 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "Indigenous Architecture, Rus­kin & Vonnegut," Prof. Kenneth Featherstone, ND, School of Architecture Auditorium, Open to Public. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Phase Transi­tions in Glassy Networks," Prof. Michael Thorpe, Michigan State University, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. · Meeting, For Those Interested in the School Secretaries' Attempt to Unionize, Center for Social Concerns. 

•4:45 
-6:45 p.m. · OBUD Gripe Night, North Dining Hall. 

•6:30 
· 8 p.m. ·Achievement Workshop, Wayne Pelligrini, Ph.D., Room 300, Counseling & Psych. Services Center, Sponsored by Counseling & Psych. Services, Free. 

•7 
p.m. -Wednesday Night FUm Series, "The Devil is a Woman," O'Shaughnessy Loft. 

•7 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. LaSalle, ACC Arena. 

•7 
& 9 p.m. · Movie, "Richard III," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Shakespeare Club, S I Donation. 

•7 
p.m. · Meeting, International Students Organi­zation, ISO Lounge, Basement of LaFortune. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m. -FUm, "The Philadelphia Story," Carroll Hall (SMC), SI.50. 

•7 
-10 p.m. -Class for Marries & Engaged Couples, For More Information & to Register Call 237-7401 or 288-2662, Sponsored by Campus Ministry. 

•8:
15 p.m. -Concert, Ferris State College Glee Club and the Notre Dame Glee Club, Washington Hall. 

•9:30 
· 11 :30 p.m. · B.O.F.A. Club, (Blow Off For A While), Pangborn Hall Social Room, Sponsored by Hall Presidents' Council. 




ACROSS 
1 Parrot 6 Sound of surprise 10 City on the 
Tiber 14 Zed's cousin 15 The Tentmaker 16 Dutch cheese 17 Sorrow 18 Woodwind 19 Loving 
20 Compass point 21 Fair 23 Milky plant 25 Sword 
27 Ammunition 
carrier 28 Hairpiece 30 Stare at 
suggestively 
The Daily Crossword 
59 Above 60 Exile isle 62 Coarse fiber 64 Twining stem 
65 Cheer 
66 Ala. city 
67 Outside: pref. 
68 Sound unit 69 Appointed meeting place 
DOWN 
1 Manner 2 Minor prophet 3 Honor 4 Past 
5 City on the Vistula 
6 Former house· hold remedy 7 Reading desk 
31 Russ. name 32 Battlement notch 34 Favorite 
37 Locales 39 Fairy 40 Ready when 
needed 
42 Beer-like 
drink 43 Cetaceans 46 Short jacket 47 Red and Black 
48 Chronicler 50 Synthetic 
fabric 53 Follow 54 Entertain 
55 Units of work 56 Bird beak 
8-Paulo 
9 Foretell 10 Decline 11 Aromas 12 Tropical fruit 
13 Ger. port 22 Of a poem 24 Tablets 26 Queue 27 Ally 28 Galileo's city 29 Wicked 33 Cloth measure 
34 With for· 
bearance 35 God of love 36 Canvas 
shelter 38 Take an oath 41 Lima's country 44 Certain haber· 
dashers 

TUI!~I'I,. $AYI 
a'~~B~N' B·N·~-~ ~~~ 
NEWHOVRS 

3:00 to 7:00pm 

2nd Floor LaFortune, Room 2-C, off Chatauqua Ballroom 
45 Carol 55 Black 47 Sound system 57 Shade trees 49 Help 58 Conquer 50 Sun-dried brtck 61 Old card game 51 Municipal 63 Sunday talk: 52 Occurrence abbr. 
IT'S COMING ... FT LAUDERDALE 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
& 

the leader in Entertainment 
HAS TRIPS TO DAYTONA BEACH for FUN in the SUN! 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7 7:00pm in LaFortune Little Theatre 


...
-----------------------------------~-~-~------------------­





orts 

~ednesday,Febru 6, 1985-page 16 
Keys' 30 lead Irish in big win over first-place Flyers, 81-66 
By LARRY BURKE Trena Keys led the way for Notre but Dayton rallied to tie matters by Sports Writer Dame with a career-high 30 points, halftime. 'lbe contest was ultimately on 9-of-I 7 shooting from the field decided in the opening moments of So much for an undefeated North and I2-of-I6 from the line, and the the second half, when the Irish Star Conference champ in 1985. junior forward/guard came up with reeled off I 0 straight points to put 
Last night, the Notre Dame wo­a fistful of records in the game. Her the game away. men's basketball team ended any I2 free throws is the most ever made Leading 34-31 early in the second chance for that possibility with a in one game in the team's history, half, Notre Dame got baskets from convincing 81-66 road win over the and her 30 points ties Shari Matvey's Botham and Keys to take a seven­previously-undefeated Dayton team mark for most points in a game point lead and force a Dayton Flyers. In so doing, the Irish took a on the road. Keys now shares Mat­timeout. The Irish kept rolling, major step towards asserting their vey's and Carol Lally's school record however, as Botham followed a supremacy in the conference. for most consecutive I0-point missed Keys free throw and Ebben 
Notre Dame, 11-7, has now won games with I 0, and she hecome~ converted a layup off a steal to three straight conference games, all only the second player in the team's widen the margin. After Keys made ofthem in convincing fashion. Over­history, the first in nearly tive years, another steal and fed Schueth for a 
all, the Irish have won six oftheir last to hit the 30-point mark. Keys is now layup just seconds later, Notre Dame seven games, and four of their last just 23 points away from Carrie had a 13-point lead. 1be Flyers never five road contests. With a 4-I record Bates' junior scoring record of 333 got closer than seven points the rest 
in the North Star, and with six of points in a season. of the way, as Ruth Kaiser came off their final nine conference games Also outstanding for the Irish the bench to grab four important slated for the ACC, Notre Dame now were senior Mary Beth Schueth, rebounds that prevented a serious 
has the inside track for a North Star freshman Sandy Botham, and junior Dayton rally. championship. Lynn Ebben. Schueth played her "We took control of the game at a 
In last night's game, the Irish usual steady game, hitting on five of critical time, in the early part of the played some of their best basketball seven shots from the field and eight first half," noted Irish coach Mary of the season, a~ they manhandled of I 0 free throws while grabbing DiStanislao. "We had a 10-point lead, 
the best the conference had to offer. seven rebounds. Botham scored I 5 but we let up a little in our defensive Dayton, now 10-9 and 5-1 in the points and pulled down eight pressure and that allowed Dayton to 
NSC, fell victim to a high-powered rebounds and turned in a solid de­tic the game by halftime. But the Notre Dame offense that churned fensive effort on Dayton's Theresa second halfwas pretty much ours. At out its highest point total of the Yingling, holding the 6-5 center the point where Dayton called that 
season. The Irish turned in another scoreless in the first half. Ebben timeout, we decided w use full­solid shooting performance, hitting added 10 points and dished out court pressure and it paid off with 
54 percent of their shots on the seven assists from her starting for­steals by Lynn and Trena. That gave night, including a torrid 64 percent ward spot. us a 13-point lead, which was com­in the second half to put the game Notre Dame took a IO-point lead fortable." out ofreach. in the first 12 minutes of the game, Aside from Kathy Brommeland, 
who had 10 points in five minutes, and Kaiser, the Irish relied almost entirely on their starters in the
Notre Dame faces LaSalle tonight in ACC 
game. Brommeland, in fact was the only non-starter to score a point.
ByPHRWOLF failed on several opportunites to win (a fast-break opportunity) is there, guard named Rory Grimes who is a AssistantSports Editor the game from the foul line. we're going to push it up the floor lot like Rivers. So, in some respects, 
"We got great performances from While the Explorers have essen­and try to get something easy. Still, that helps us, because we have a feel 
our starters," said DiStanislao. Following the Notre Dame basket­tially the same team as last season, possession of the ball has become a for what kind ofteam Notre Dameis. 
"Trena did an outstanding job of ball team's exciting 53-52 victory the Irish have a much different valuable thing for us." "I guess it's a help that we really scoring at opportune times, and over UCLA at Pauley Pavilion last squad. H both teams play the way they know what to expect," the assistant 
Sandy and Mary Beth did a good jobweekend, talk everywhere began to "David Rivers makes them a differ­have so far this season, tonight's said, "but at the same time, it doesn't 
inside. Mary Gavin did a solid job of turn to the confrontation between ent team," LaSalle assistant coach game should be a battle between the mean we can stop him." running our offense, and Ruth made the Irish and the sixth-ranked Joe Mihalich said, noting that this Explorers' ball control and Notre Whether or not the Explorers can 
an important contribution in the Syracuse Orangemen next Saturday. season's Irish team may be more ca­Dame's pressure defense and run­stop Rivers or the Notre Dame of­
second half. The Explorers of LaSalle University pable of coming from behind than ning offense. The key to victory for fense, they still will rely on their cal­"This was our best all-around will come to the ACC tonight, the team LaSalle beat last year. The LaSalle, according to Mihalich, will culated offense to produce the 
game of the season. It was a very,however, to try to Interrupt the talk fast-breaking style Notre Dame now be to stop Rivers, something the Ex­points to keep them in the game. 
very important win for us in the con­of next weekend's potential upset. employs makes it possible to turn a plorers say they think they may be Lasalle is fortunate to have several 
ference, even more so considering it LaSalle coach Dave "Lefty" Ervin game around in a hurry. The Ex­able to do. players it can count on for offensive came on the road." 
has all but one of his players return­plorers, in contrast, are a ball­"Probably the best team in our production. ing from last season's 20-11 team control team. league (the Metro Atlantic Confer­Four LaSalle players scored in IRISH ITEMS -The Irish will take that beat the Irish, 68-66, in the "We don't have a Rivers," ence) is Iona," Mihalich said, " and double figures in last year's contest, on conference rival Xavier on·Satur­Spectrum in Philadelphia. Notre Mihalich explained. "We depend they're very similar to Notre Dame day at noon in the ACC, right before Dame never led in the contest and more on taking good shots, but if it in the sense that they have a point • see EXPLORERS, page 13 the men's game against Syracuse. 
joseph Price helped lead the Irish to victory Sunday against UCLA, scoring eightpointsandgettingfour steals. Notre Dame will try to extend its winning streak to four games tonight as the Ex­plorers ofLaSalle invade the ACC. 



Should cheaters be allowed to prosper in sports? 
Ifyou think back long and hard, you may remember an 
old saying that went something like, "It's not whether 
you win or lose, but how you play the game." 
Sometimes when you leafthrough recent sports pages, 
it's really hard to believe that people were so naive as to 
think this was true. 
Everywhere you look today -college athletics, the 
Olympics, pro sports, prep sports -the popular credo 
seems to be, "Do whatever is necessary to give yourself 
the edge over your opponent." This win-at-all-costs atti­
tude is becoming so prevalent that something is going to 
have to break soon. 
The latest controversy has been the discovery of "blood boosting" by certain members ofthe U.S. Olympic Cycling Team, including four medal winners. Blood boosting involves giving an athlete a transfusion ofblood in the hope that the resulting increase in red-blood cells would get more oxygen to his or her tiring muscles during the course of the race. 
It's a very complicated issue which seems very insig­nificant when compared to the massive cheating that goes on in college athletics, but it provides a good exam­ple of how winning has become so important that it is driving athletes to such drastic mea'iures as blood trans­fusions and steroid use. 
In the case of the cyclists, it was felt that something needed to be done to keep pace with the sporting machines of Russia and East Germany. "We weren't gonna fall behind the Russians and East Germans any more," said one U.S. Cycling Federation official in an arti-

Michael Sullivan 
Sports Editor 


de which appeared in the Jan. 21, 1985 issue of Sports Illustrated. 
With this attitude of"do it to them before they do it to you," the U.S. coaches and cyclists decided to proceed with the blood boosting. It wasn't discovered until several weeks ago, but, when it was, U.S. Olympic Com­mittee officials were outraged. Since then, the team's coach has been suspended and other officials have either quit or been demoted. 
It seems like a clear-cut case ofcheating, but it is anyth­ing but. You see, what the cyclists did was not illegal. They will not be losing any medals because of the extra edge they tried to give themselves. Sure, getting blood transfusions for athletic purposes seems unethical and dangerous, but that didn't seem to bother any of the guilty parties. 
"As long as they're not doing anything illegal," said a team official to SI, "then why not do it if you believe that it's going to help your performance?" Added a cyclist, "I didn't think it was wrong at the time, because you can't detect it." 
The most telling statement came from another rider. 
"It's a very subjective question," he said. "You can't just say that doing that is wrong, or doing that is right." 
That final comment possibly describes the problem with sports today. The bending and breaking ofthe rules has become so prevalent that they are like weeds that have grown over the garden fences, causing confusion over where the garden ends and the fence begins. 
Whether it's blood boosting, under-the-table pay­ments, or false transcripts, the rules have been bent so much that they are almost useless sometimes. 
For instance, how can you stop illegal recruiting when so many other schools are doing it? Do you make one school an example by giving it a very stiff penalty? That doesn't seem too fair. After all, isn't that school just trying to keep pace with the other schools, just as the U.S. cyclists were try1ng to keep pace with the questionable tactics of the Eastern Europeans? In a system where win­ning, not playing by the rules, is the bottom line, the school's only crime was that it was caught. Thus, the only lesson that will be taught by singling out one or two schools or a handful of athletes is, "If you're going to cheat, make sure you don't get caught." 
Cheating in amateur sports has been going on for many years, although the increased media coverage of the problems makes it seem like it is a recent development. However. as more and more people begin to see that they can take advantage ofthe gray area'i and confusion which 
see SULLIVAN, page 13 




