Grotto -page 3 

VOL XX, NO. 23 the indqwmknt ~111Jn11 Ill"\\ ~paper ~cn·ing noln dame anti ~ainl man··, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1985. 
ND parent calls Mexico coverage 'irresponsible' 
By MARY HEILMANN 
Assistant News Editor 
All I 0 Notre Dame students in 
Mexico City are "alive and well and 
helping out in rescue and clean-up 
efforts" according to one student's 
father, who visited the earthquake­
torn area this past weekend. 
"In the center of the city there is 
major damage, but it is concentrated 
In that area," said John Conroy, fat­
her of junior Mary-Zoe Conroy, a 
student in the Mexico City program. 
"Out by the university, though, 
there's virtually no damage or very 
little damagt• · maybe a little stucco 
off the buildings." 
Conroy flew to Mexico City last 
"lbursday, within hours after reading 
an account of the earthquake 
damage printed in The Miami Herald 
under the banner headline "Mexico 
City in ruins." "lbe paper also 
featured a photograph ofthe damage 
which Conroy said "looked like a 
World War II bombed-out area." 
"I flew there fully prepared to dig 
out Mary-Zoe and her roommate, 
the other Notre Dame students and 
anyone else from the rubble," Con­
roy said. "Instead, on our approach 
to Mexico City, I was amazed to see 
the traffic flowing clearly, buildings 
Intact, and no real apparent or 
severe damage." 
Whilt• stressing that the center of 
the city did in fact sustain severe 
damage, Conroy noted that this 
heavily hit area constituted, in his es­
timation, about two square miles-or 
approximately one percent · of the 
city. 
""lbe situation there is a classic 
ca.~t· of irresponsible journalism," 
Conroy stated. "The press ha.~ take1,1 
an accurate account of the damage 
In one very small part ofthe city and 
projected it over the entire area, 
when in fact this isn't the case." 
An·ording to Conroy, the stu­dents at the Universidad lbt·roamericana, through which Notrt' Dame operates its Mexico City foreign exchange program, ex­perienced the earthquake primarily in the form of swaying buildings. He added that most of the Notre Dame students are now participating in the rescue and salvage operations. 
"I would say that the students simply reacted like every other responsible citizen. It didn't matter that they weren't Mexican citizens by birth. They were just lending a hand where they saw it was needed." 
'lbe university is being utilized as a shelter for the homeless, Conroy noted, so classes are presently dis­rupted. 
"Cia.'lses are about the farthest thing from anyone's mind. I know that the university is keeping things in perspective and addressing the emergency in the best possible way. Rlght now, providing shelter for those whose homes were destroyed is more important than conducting classes." 
Conroy said that none of the stu­dents have expressed plans to go home. 

Saint Mary's freshmen Kathleen Zassick and Nora 0 'Brien appear busy yesterday afternoon, but who's to say? Maybe they're just goofing off The weather was perfect for such activities yesterday, will be iffy today and tomorrow, butshould be bet­ter, warmer and sunny, by the week's end. 
SMC forced to deny food jobs to students after federal audit 
By MARY FRAN GISCH 
StaffReporter 
Saint Mary's Financial Aid office determined that 20 to 25 dining hall workers were ineligible for work earlier this semester following an audit by the federal government. 
"There was a lot of confusion and misunderstandings," said Katie Orle, SAGA head student manager. "Those couple ofweeks were really frustrat­ing because we didn't know what would happen." 
Judith Casey, director of financial aid, said, "The rules haven't changed. These are the same rules that held in 1972. We have to make sure that as many students that are eligible get the chance for campus employment." 
"We also have to make sure that other students don't make more than they are alloted in their finan­cial · awards. Because of staffing problems we weren't able to monitor this in the past as we are 
now." 

"There are at least 650 students on traditional type of financial aid, 
and  another  250  who  ·are  
Guaranteed  Student  Load  
Recipients," said Casey.  

"It is difficult to monitor that many people. Notre Dame monitors their financial aid even more closely than we do." 
Robert Feldesi, director of ad­ministrative services and liason to SAGA food services said, "We have 
see AID, page 5 
'Star Peace' Soviet answer to 'Wars' 
Associated Prei!IS 
UNITED NATIONS· Foreign Mini­ster Eduard A. Shevardnadze of the Soviet Union warned yesterday that the Reagan administration's Star Wars plan threatens "a nuclear catastrophe" and called instead for 
an  international  program  of "Star  
Peace."  
Shevardnadze  said  the  United  

States has "sinister plans" for the militarization of outer space that would ignite an "uncontrollable and irreversible" global arms race. 
"In the final analysis, this is a road leading to a nuclear catastrophe," he said in an address to the 40th U.N. General Assembly. 
Secretary of State George P. Shultz, who was in the audience, stalked unsmilingly past reporters after the Soviet minister had finished, ignoring shouted questions for a reaction. 
It was Shevardnadze's first speech at the United Nations since he succeeded Andrei A. Gromyko as foreign minister earlier this year. 
A western ambassador, who did not want to be identified, called the speech "tough and arrogant." He said, "It was not a very good prepara­tion for Geneva," referring to the up­coming Nov. 19-20 summit between President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev. 
The speech received polite but unenthusiastic applause, the same as Shultz received at the end of his speech on Monday. 
Administration officials had been hoping for indications of flexibility in the Soviet minister's address that could help set the stage for a succes­ful summit, but there wa.~ not much to encourage them. 
Shevardnadze will meet with Shultz in New York on Wednesday and with Reagan in Wa.~hington on Friday where he is expected to outline a new Soviet strategy for breaking the impasse at the U.S.· Soviet arms control talks in Geneva. 
Shevardnadze voiced hope in his speech for a successful summit. But rather than the general agenda favored by the Reagan administra­tion, Shevardnadze said the focus should be on arms control. 
Soviet sources have been quoted 
see PEACE, page 7 

Beauchamp: releasing info in 'best interest' 
By FRANK}. MASTRO 
StaffReporter 
Father William Beauchamp, ex­ecutive assistant to the president, and The Observer's liaison with the University administration, said it would be in the best interests ofThe Observer to be as open as they can be with their financial information. 
"If they're going to put out a quality paper, it's going to cost a considerable amount of money," said Beauchamp, "It's in their best interest to give an idea where the money comes from. They could ex­plain how the advertising figures are arrived at." 
Student Activities Director }oni 
Neal said she has a similar view. 
"I agree with the student or­ganizations. We spend a large percentage of student funds for ad­vertising," said Neal. 
"Are those rates accurate and can they be lower for non-profit groups based on your cost and budget?" she asked. 
Arequest to make The Observer's financial books public was issued in a letter last week from Student Body President Bill Healy and ll other student leaders. Observer Editor-in­Chief Sarah Hamilton denied the re­quest. 
"We are accountable to the students in the same way SAB is ac­countable to the students, through the Budget Unit Control system," Hamilton said. 
But Student Activities Board 
Manager Lee Broussard said he dis­
agrees. 

"We were trying to justify the rates. We're trying to find out the budget forecast to see if they need that money," said Broussard. 
Neal said she would like to see the advertising rate increase clarified. 
"We are addressing advertising rates. I would like to see what their costs are like," she said. 
Beauchamp said the ball is now In The Observer's court. 
"My reaction is that it Is clear that It Is a decision to be made by The Observer. We have made It clear that The Observer Is an Independent organization," said Beauchamp. 
Neal said The Observer's financial record should be as available as stu­dent government's. 
"Any student on campus has access to our audit report. It's a man· datory fee. It's not a loss of autonomy. It's public information," said Neal, "I don't see The Observer as any different from student government." 
"It's the student body newspaper. 
see RATES, page 7 


The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1985-page 2 
In Brief 

Sister Eleanor Bernstein, has been appointed director of Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral Liturgy by Prof. Timothy O'Meara, University provost. Sister Jennifer Glen, C.C.V.l. has been named associate director ofthe Center for Pastoral Liturgy by Monsignor Joseph Gremillion, director of the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry, ofwhich the Center for Pastoral Liturgy is a component. · The Observer 
Of Interest 

Officials ofJuniper Press, the student-owned 
and operated publishing house at Notre Dame, are asking for manuscripts. One will be selected by a student jury for publication andwill be processed through the usual editing, production, market· ing and business procedures. · The Observer 
The Truman Scholarshipwill be the topic ofan 
informational meeting this afternoon at 4 in Room 121 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The scholarships is awarded on the basis of merit to students who will be juniors in the coming academic year and who have outstanding potential for leadership in any phase of government. ·The Observer 
A West Coast picnic will take place on Green Field Oct. 4, from 4 until 7 p.m. for students, faculty and staff from or affiliated with the West Coast states of California, Oregon, Was· hington, Alaska and Hawaii. A S2 fee is being collected this week in front ofthe dining halls at dinner and in the office ofstudent affairs in LaFonune Student Center. · The Observer 
A Bike-A-Thon is being organized by the St. Jude Children's Hospital for Saturday, Oct. 5 from 9 a.m. until 3 p.m. The ride will honor Jaime, a leukemia patient at the hospital. Sponsor forms can be picked up at LaFonune Student Center, or by contact· ing Lois Widmar at 272-9483. ·The Observer 
HPC Chairman Kevin Howard will be the 
guest tonight on "Campus Perspectives"at 10 p.m. on WVFI-AM 64. Join hosts John Dechers and Nancy O'Connor with your questions and comments at 239-6400. · The Observer 
Two Peace Corps representatives will be on campus to explain the Peace Corps and to show a free informational film tonight at 7:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. The Oct. 9 Peace Corps campus interviews will also be discused. · The Observer 
Student-Alumni Relations Group applica­
tions are due today. Spaces are available to sophomores, juniors and seniors. Call Jodie Githens with questions, 283·29tJ3. ·TheObserver 
Guitarist Alex De Grassi will be returning to the Notre Dame concen stage October 6 for the first ofa series ofthree performances by artists associated with Windham Hill Records. Ot· her concerts include the Scott Cossu Trio on October 27 and Phil Aaberg November 23. The Around the Corner Club, sponsor ofthe concert series, has announced that a series ticket for the three Stepan Center concerts went on sale Sunday. Prices range from SIS for the general public to $10 for students with currentidentification. Single session tickets for the 8 p.m. concerts will be $7 and $4. They are available at the LaFonune Student Center Record Store, Athletic and Convocation Center, Nightwinds in South Bend and Mishawaka, and the Record Connection in Elkhart. · The Observer 
Father Adrian Hastings, professor of religion at the University of Zimbabwe, will give a lecture titled "The African Church: Problems and Opponunities" tonight at 8 in the Galvin Life Sciences auditorium at Notre Dame. Father Hastings' lecture is sponsored by Notre Dame's Department of Theology and the Programs ofAfrican Studies and Black Studies. · The OBserver 
The Notre Dame Toastmasters Club will meet tonight at 6:30p.m. in Room 223 Hayes-Healy. This will be the last chance to pay club dues. Club officers will be elected. · The Observer 
' 
Weather 

Leaves will turn if this keeps up. Increasing cloudiness today with a 40 percent chance ofrain by afternoon. Highs in the upper 50s and low 60s. Temperatures in the 40s tonight with a 60 percent chance ofrain. Partly cloudy tommorrow with a 30 percent chance ofrain and highs in the upper 50s and low 60s. · 

ational Weather Service 

1be Obeerver (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, excrpt during exam and vacation prriods. The Obeerver is published by the studentsof tbe University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchased for 530 prr year ( S20 prr se­mester) by writing The Obeerver, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
1be Observer is a member of 'lbe 
Aasoclated Press. All reproduction 
rights ar" reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 

Design Editor........................ Andi Schnuck Design Assistant .................. Kathy Huston Layout Staff................................. Russ Rieth Typesetters ...........................Jennifer Bigott 
Pat Clark News Editor....................... Bob Musselman Copy Editor................................. ]ohn Hines Sports Copy Editor................ Mike Chmiel Viewpoint Copy Editor .......Alice Groner Viewpoint Layout............ Melissa Warnke ND Day Editor........................ Diane Dutart SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Ad Design ..................... ]eannie Grammens 
Jim Kramer Photographer ............................ Mary White 
Notre Da01e's answer to frats: the residence hall syste01 
This weekend, students who leave the friendly confines ofthe Notre Dame community to cheer on the football team will confront a different kind of social atmosphere. 
Fraternities. And Sororities. Oh, boy. 

For those not used to them, fraternities get a bad rap. They are portrayed in movies, on televisions programs and in those inane, psuedo-collegiate rags like "Campus Voice," as places where groups of modern-day gladiator-types spend their days chugging beer and chasing pretty co-eds who wear towels. 
Sororities get even worse press, if that is possible. To the uninitiated, the image of a "sorority girl" brings to mind a blond, catty cheerleader-type. 
Obviously, reality bears little resemblance to the stereotypes presented in these media. The Greek sys­tem is actually very worthwhile to its members. 
Besides providing habitation, fraternities and sororities offer members a social identity. A person becomes known as a "Tri­

Dan 
McCullough 
News Editor 
from an alumnus that his or her old dorm is the absolute best, most freshmen have a basic concept ofwhat their future home will be like, and of the type of people with whom they will be living and growing. 
For those with no previous exposure to dorm life at Notre Dame, the admissions office sends every incom­ing freshman a pamphlet titled, "A Student Guide to Campus Housing." You may remember trying to choose a dorm from the tract, in which every dorm is described according to facilities, location and attitude. 
For example, the Dillon 
entry states, "Dillon is 
known for its colorful 'Big 

Delt," or an "Omega Man," Red' spirit and a strongsense and becomes identifiaple offraternity." with the type of person the For Cavanaugh, the guide characteristics of that house says, "Cavanaugh is best dictate: 
known for its long tradition The Greek system also al­of excellence and achieV!'!· lows members to make im· 
ment in the academic portant contacts that can be realm." worthwhile later in life. 
The descriptions of the According to DuLac, the women's dorms are a little rulebook for the University, more ambiguous, but still Notre Dame has no frater­give general impressions of nities or sororities. 
each dorm. Residents of the Or does it? Pasquerillas, according to Nearly all the advantages the guide, "have the oppor· 
ofliving in a fraternity areal· tunity to form a new hall 

ready present within the residence halls ·at Notre Dame. 
Unlike Saint Mary's and many other schools, most men and women at Notre Dame live in the same dor­mitory for all four undergraduate years. They get to know the other residents of their halls, building friendships and acquaintances throughout their college career. 
And each dorm at Notre Dame gives its residents a certain identity with which they can compare them­selves to other students. 
Of course, all of the characteristics and stereotypes are not applicable to every person in the dorm, but each dorm has a spirit that is unique and identifiable and which is shared by every resident in one way or another .. whether it is a loud and obnoxious Dillon resident or a studious Cavanaugh man, to take two extremes. 
Most incoming freshmen have some idea of what he or she is getting into. Whether it's the advice ofan older sibling to stay away from a certain dorm or the promise 
identity and traditions." And Badin is "conducive to strong friendships and good times." 
These descriptions originate from the dorms, accord­ing to Evelyn Reinebold, director of students residences. From there they are approved by student affairs, printed by residence life, and distributed by admissions, she said. 
Through tradition and the continual renewal ofiden· tification, each residence hall has, in effect, defined it· selfthroughout the years. And the incomingfreshman is able to choose which type of people he or she wants to spend undergraduate years with ·· much in the same way that students at other schools can choose a frater· nity or sorority during rush week. 
So students who visit Purdue this weekend are impressed with the virtues of the Greek system, don't have to feel so left out. 
Notre Dame has fraternities. They're just closer to campus. And the names are easier to remember. 
------... .., --­
-, ­

EXPLORE THE TECHNICAL WORLD AT IBM 
SEE US AT INDUSTRY DAY! 
IBM will be on campus September 25, 1985 participating in Engineering Council/SWE Industry Day. We are combining our regularly scheduled November Career Day with this activity. Ifyou are a 1986 graduate and your degree is in Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, or Math with Computer Science, please bring copies of your resume or profile form and stop by to see us at Fitzpatrick Hall Concourse between 9:00 a~m.-4:00p.m. 
Ifyou are unable to attend, IBM will be back on campus February 18-20, 
1986 for our Spring Recruiting! 

IBM is an equal oportunity employer. 
-~----------~------~ -~----­
The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1985-page 3 
Grotto repairs to cost $25,000 
redesign the candle holders. Fire of­scene yesterday to begin the clean­
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
ficials said Monday the fire began ing and repair process.
News Editor 
when the great heat caused by the "We have a stone and marble 
many candles lit by visitors during company· removing the stones that 
Repair began almost immediately the weekend fused many of the were heated and cracked," Erichsen 
after a fire swept through the Our candle holders together and erupted said. "A cleaning company is remov­
Lady of Lourdes Grotto at Notre into flame. ing the smoke stains and burnt wax. 
Dame early Monday morning. While a speciffc cost for the We have removed all the wrougn 
It is hoped that most of the repair repairs has not yet been determined, iron and debris this morning for 
will be completed by this ~eekend, it is expected to cost less than cleaning." 
said Father .Daniel )enky, rector of $25,000, said Ronald Erichsen, assis­"It looks like the northeast corner, 
Sacred lleart Church. Repair began tant director of maintenance for the where the fire began, is beyond 
Monday afternoon. University. repair," he said. 
"We're just chopping of the old "We can't make a true estimate Jenky said he was optimistic about 
brick that was burnt and chipped by until the cleaning is done so we can getting the Grotto back to its 
the fire:," said Jenky. "I don't even see the extent of the tuckpointing original form soon. "We don't have 
think there: arc any plans for required," Erichsen said. to rebuild the Grotto," he said. 
sandblasting. While Jenky said he does not yet "It looks like the Blessed Mother 
"Mostly, we're just using water know what repairs would cost, he wasn't burned," Jenky said. "She was 
and chemicals to dean the rocks," said he doubted the they would cost just covered with soot. Some of the 
he said. anything near that amount. sacristans are just going to repaint 
Jenky said plans are being made to Several companies were on the her." 
Engineers can meet firins today 
By EILEEN HOFFMAN que! will be Calvin Blattner, a the years, and several companies StaffReporter graduate of Notre Dame and an En­were turned away from this year's gineering Operator for MacDonald fair, she said. 
By PATRICK CREADON The goals of the Automated
Engineering students (and Douglas Aeornautics Company. "Student participation in this 
News Staff Plan are numerous, he said. The 
everyone else) can visit with "This Industry Day has grown by event has been great this year," 
Plan was devised to integrate

representatives of 28 engineering leaps and bounds," according to George said. 
The University Libraries are present systems, to improve ac­
firms today at the fifth annual En­Mary George, a member of the Joint Many Notre Dame graduates are 
experiencing delays with a five­cessibility to the library collec­
gineering Day. Engineering Council. Industry Day representing frrms this year, George 
year program to computerize tions, to convert the card catalog
Exhibits will be on the first floor is a big plus for seniors, since it said, adding that the alumni enjoy 
library systems. system to computer-base form,
of Fitzpatrick Ball until 4:30 p.m., provides them with the opportunity returning to campus and talking 
On AprU 30, 1984, The Obser­to modernize the system ofbook
where students will be able to speak to hand out resumes, and allows with students. 
ver reported that the new library loans, and to manage the journal 
Informally with company juniors and sophomores to establish Preparations for this year's fair 
systems could be used byjanuary literature.
representatives. contact people or set up possible began last spring. It is jointly 
25, 1985. Due to complications, Although the switch to a
Tonight, there will be an Industry summer internship programs, she sponsored by the Joint Engineering 
said Robert Miller, director of computer-base system will save
Banquet in the ACC from 6:30 to said. Council and the Society of Women 

The ~/llbry-Sbaron 'ltblk 

Reconstruction of the fire-damaged Grotto began almost Im­mediately after the fire Monday. Story at left. 
Library automation coming In sprtng 
8:30. The speaker at this year's ban-The program has expanded over Engineers. 

II 
I 

WED.­
Wine Cooler Night. $ 1 .00 
THURS.-South Of The Border Night. $.90 Tequila Drinks!!!!!! $ 1 Mexi cen Beers !!!!!!! 
FRIDAY -$.50 Little Kings Beers !!!!. 



FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1069 239-7521 

automated systems and coor­money since manual labor ex­dinator of technical services at penditure will be greatly the library, that date has been ex­reduced, Miller stressed that the tended. saving oftime as the major reason 
Miller said the delay is due for the project. He noted that mainly to the fact that the library time will be saved not only by the has not decided which computer library personnel, but also by the vendor will provide the equip­student using the library. ment. He said a company was For instance, under the new chosen, but because of problems system, a student in one of the within that company, the project five branches of the library committee has looked elsewhere located throughout the campus for a contractor. can look up a book without 
"We have laid down the leaving the building he or she is groundwork for the system, and in. Under the present system, the we have decided on exactly what student would have to walk to we want. Basically," he said, "all the main library and look we have to do now is find a com­through the card catalog. pany. Also, students with their own 
"We will probably decide by personal computers will be able around December 1 what com­to tap in to the library's data-base. pany will do the job." Computer terminals will be in· 
Once a contractor is found, the stalled on each floor of the main project committee will be able to library to serve the same get approval from the University purpose. and begin installing the Miller also stressed that al· hardware. "I don't see any though the new system relies problem getting the project ap­largely on the use of a computer proved once we decide on a con­by the individual, a student tractor," Miller added. having no previous experience 
Installation of the hardware is with computers should have "no scheduled to begin in the spring problem" using the terminals. of 1986. Over the summer, the The project was funded mainly 
1 
data-base will be loaded, and _by by Mr. john T. Ryan ofPittsburgh. January 1987, the system should Ryan is a Notre Dame Trustee 
,1 
be in full working order, Miller and President of Mine Safety 
,
said. Devices. 
1 
SMC hair salon planned I 
I 
By CANDICE BECKER only a matter of signing a contract News Staff before the salon can move ln. Also, some minor renovations are being 
Need a haircut or some shampoo? made In LeMans in order to ac­Or maybe even a fast tan for that up· ·comodate the salon. coming SYR? Your'e in luck · a May couldn't give an exact date, professional hair salon is coming to but he said the salon will definitely Saint Mary's. be open sometime after October 15. 
The new salol1 will be located In Haircrafters will provide full hair LeMans Hall because it has the most styling services, manicures and tan• suitable space for the store, said ningbeds. jason Lindower, Controller and Another Saint Mary's campus busi­Business Manager at Saint Mary's. ness, Plants and Flowers, has closed, 
perhaps only temporarily. 

"We would have liked to put the Lindower said the florist had an ill· salon in Haggar College Center, but ness in the family and It really was there just isn't room," he said. not in the best Interest of the florist 
The salon Is a branch of or Saint Mary's to continue the Haircrafters, a South Bend stylist service. located on Lincolnway. Three other Mary Anne O'Donnell, Director of area beauty salons bid for the spot Student Activities, Is working with on campus, but Haircrafters gave the one of the marketing classes, 
best proposal, Lindower said, and however, to determine the need for there was a lot ofcampus support for an on campus florist. If the support this particular salon. for a florist on campus is substantial, According to Frances May, direc· another one will be brought In, she tor ofpurchasing at Saint Mary's, it is said. 
·~ • -. -·· --•--···-.• ---.. ----. --• -•• ----••• ------·---------_r 
~~---­

The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1985-page 4 
Student govern01ent pushes plan of CODlDlunication with faculty 
By TED SPINELLI 
News Staff 
Sudent government has a plan this year that it thinks will open channels of communication between the stu­dent body and the faculty. 
Student Body President Bill Healy announced last week that either he or Vice President Duane Lawrence will attend all of this year's faculty senate meetings. 
Healy said that his role at the meetings will be to "observe for the most part." But mainJy,"Healy said, he wants to "attend to hear what goes on and to bridge the gap of communication between the faculty and the students." 
Student government has been offi­cially informed ofthe sessions in the past but it has never sent high level members to the meetings. 
"Past student governments were not taken seriously" Healy said. Healy said he hopes that this new policy ofattending the meetings will remove that stigma from student government and the that procedure will be "beneficial" to both students and the faculty. 
Healy said he wants to incor­porate the ideas ofthe faculty senate into the activities of the student government. • 
He said the "large scale" issues such as South Africa, the curriculum, the final exam policy, and the tenure policy are important to his ad­ministration. Any information on these issues that comes up at faculty Senate meetings could lead to a "combined effort" between student government and the faculty senate in addressing them, Healy said. 
The faculty senate meets on a monthly basis at the Center for Con­tinuing Education. The last meeting, held on September 11, was attended by. Lawrence and StudentFaculty Relations Coordinator Brian Kauf­man. Kaufman, a member of Healy's 
HPC budgets halls 
By SCO'IT BEARBY 
AssistantNews Editor 
Hall presidents' heads were filled with dollar signs last night as the Hall Presidents' Council allocated their 
annual  budget to the  individual  
halls.  
According  to  HPC  Chairman  

Kevin Howard, the council has a budget of $20,000. Of that money, $18,750 was allocated to the 24 residence halls and off-campus. The remaining amount will be dis­tributed later. 
The budget committee based the allocations on dorm size, hall renovations and requests submitted by the hall presidents. No hall received more than $850 or less than $700, according to the proposal presented. 
Off-campus will be receiving Sl,OOO of HPC funds, although Howard said that this will be an ac­tual decrease in funds. Off-campus is now officially recognized as a part of the council and therefore lost other funds in the transition. 
Each hall will also be eligible for matching funds from the University, Howard added. 
In other business, Vince Willis spoke on behalf of the Under­graduate Around the Corner Club about "Hoosier Hysteria Week." Ac­tivities associated with Indiana life will be scheduled both Friday and Saturday nights. 
According to Willis, "Hoosier Olympics" will be held on Friday night from 7 to 10. Each hall is scheduled to field a 9-person team to engage in hog calling, water­melon activities, horseshoe tossing, and free throw shooting. 
Saturday night a square dance will be held at the Alumni/Senior Club from 9 to 10:30. Willis said students are encouraged to dress how they feel "Mr. and Mrs. Farmer should look." 
Following the square dance, anot­her dance will be scheduled. Also, hayrides and a bonfire will take place during the evening. 
Willis will be a part of a meeting tonight at 6, which will focus on the possibility of putting cable 1V on campus. The organizational meeting will be held in the Uttle Theater of LaFortune Center. 
Mark Mullaney, from the South Bend Jaycees, also spoke to HPC about his club's interest in forming a student chapter on the Notre Dame campus. According to Mullaney, the Jaycees purpose is to increase com­munity development, individual development, and management development. 
Mullaney said he has had initial contact with Student Activities Director Joni Neal, who suggested he ask HPC if they would be willing to endorse the organization's at­tempt to form on campus. 
No action was taken in the matter; however, Howard said he will dis­cuss the matter with Neal. 
Stanford Hall President Jim Cran­dall updated the council on the proposed on-campus 21-Club. He said he will be meeting with As­sociate Vice President for Residence Ufe John Goldrick on Friday. 
Millions 'harvested' 
AaMK:iatcd Press 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. -The S50 mil­lion promoters hoped to reap from the FarmAid concert was far from harvested yesterday fueling specula­tion that some viewers may have been offended that politics were in­jected into the benefit concert. 
Others said contributions from Sunday's star-studded 14-hour show may have been reduced by public awareness that many farmers are well-off, or because attention was diverted by the earthquakes that shattered Mexico City. 
A nationwide television audience Sunday pledged S8 million to S1 0 million, said concert publicist Vic­toria Rose. 
She said corporate donations, mail contributions, and revenue from tickets, concessions, and a planned music video and album could "real easily" bring the total to the S50 mil­lion hoped for by concert organizer Willie Nelson. 
However, a spokesman for the na­tion's largest farm organization said many farmers were disappointed that some of the entertainers publicly endorsed a farm bill by Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, which proposes increased government price supports. 
"It was the performers who got out of hand," said Mel Woell of the American Farm Bureau Federation. "Willie blew it. It could have had a more positive impact if it hadn't been politicized." 
But Tom Curl, president of the Il­linois chapter of American Agriculture Movement, said, "I admire Willie Nelson and the others for having the guts to stand up for what they believe in and promoting this (Harkin's) farm bill." 
Woell and others said factors outside politics may limit the cash­raising potential of FarmAid, espe­cially when compared with Uve Aid, a benefit concert that raised S58 mil­lion for starving Africans. 
Nelson got the idea for the Far­mAid show from the Uve Aid concerts held simultaneously on July 13 in Philadelphia and London. 
administration, will also attend all meetings. 
Lawrence said he learned a lot about the interests of the faculty, and that student government's presence at the meetings will "improve student-faculty com­munication." 
Lawrence added that some mem­bers seemed "surprised" at his being there. 
"I was surprised, I had not seen a student there before," said faculty senate Chairman john Yoder. 
Although Yoder stressed that the student government's role at the meetings can only be that of an ob­server and not of an elected mem­ber, the chairman said "Communication is better than none." 
The presence of student govern­ment at faculty senate meetings is acceptable with an exception to dis­cussions of "delicate issues having confidential dimensions," Yoder added. 


Britain's Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher visited London Zoo, Regent's Park, London, this week, where she wasguest ofhonorat a reception held by the Zoological Society of London. Her com­panion is Neusi, a baby chimpanzee. 
50UND 5PE.CTACULAR ¥ 

THE MANHAITAN TRANSFER VOCALESE 
Feoluring the LyriG of Joo HendriOO 
Pill~ 

lndudes • 
Roy'sRod<h"""' 
Anolhe! Night In Tunilio 
That's Killer Joe 



:4-f the 

Xotre1Js:me'Boo~Wre­
, 

The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1985-page 5 

No luck 
Virginia State Police arul rescue personnel walk to the tenninal at the Shenandoah Valley Airport after unsuccessfully searching for commut(>r plane that crashed near on approach to the airport Wednesday. The plane was later found with no sun,ivors. 
Plane hits 111ountain 
in Virginia, kills 14 
Associated Press 
WEYERS CAVE, Va.-The bodies of 14 people killed when a commuter plane slammed into a mountain and burned were carried down rugged trails yesterday as investigators looked for clues to the cause of the crash. 
"It's amazing how a plane that size can be reduced to nothing," said state police Sgt. R.L. Bass, one of about 30 officers assisting National Transportation Safety Board inves­tigators gathering pieces of the Hen­son Airlines Beech 99. 
The plane, carrying 12 passengers and two crew members, went down Monday morning on a flight from Baltimore to the Shenandoah Valley Airport in this western Virginia com­munity south of Harrisonburg. The wreckage was spotted nearly nine hours later from a Marine helicop­ter. 
The first ground team to reach the crash site on Trayfoot Mountain didn't arrive until about 2 a.m. yes­terday. 
The victims' bodies were placed in bags at the site yesterday and stretcher teams carried them to the nearest road, more than a mile away. 
"It appeared the plane came in straight or slightly descending ... bul­ldozed the ground and broke apart," • NTSB investigation team leader Patricia Goldman said. "Very little is intact." 
She said some of the bodies were burned. 
At an afternoon news conference, Ms. Goldman said investigators had not been able to confirm reports that the pilot had trouble with navigation equipment before the crash. 
She said investigators would listen to conversations between traffic controller's at Leesburg and the pilot to determine if there was any such problem. 
Col. David Carter, a spokesman for the Civil Air Patrol in northern Virginia, said Monday that one ofthe pilot's radio messages reported a failure in a device called a localizer, which tells the pilot where the plane is in relation to a runway. Carter said 
that should not have had a serious 
effect on an experienced pilot's 
ability to navigate. 

State police Sgt. A.). Anderson said the plane hit the brush-covered mountain from the northeast after clipping the tops of trees. 
Aid 

continuedfrom page I 
enough workers now. We hustled 
for a while there at the start of the 
school year because we were short 
workers, but the situation is taken 
care of now." 
Communication has improved 

between the departments. "Now 
when we need workers," said Orie, 
"we call the financial aid office for 
workers instead of trying to recruit 
people ourselves." 
Casey and Feldesi also com­mented on the improved com­munication between departments. 
Saint Mary's financial aid was federally audited by the department of education this summer. 
"They stayed for three days and pulled sample files, timecards, and student schedules to make sure they weren't working during class times," said Casey. 
"The problems weren't big enough to require an in depth study," she said. "We were glad to see them go." 
"The problem before was that we simply did not have enough staff to monitor student employment. Now Judith Reeves is in charge of that area. Incidents that slid by in the past will not happen now," said Casey. 
"Part of the problem is that stu­dents don't realize that these are federal rules. Saint Mary's does not make them up," said Reeves, assis­tant director of financial aid. 
"We have to follow them closely," he said, "or else Saint Mary's will be responsible for paying back funds to the government. We are very careful not to put the college in an embar­
1

rassing situation." 
"Financial aid recipients should know that they are only eligible to work the allotted hours which total a certain amount of funds," said Casey. 
"Part of the misunderstanding is that once they have been awarded a financial aid job or government loan, students think they arc free to get a job on their own," said Reeves, "but this is just not the case. 
Writers' Block Cured 
Send $2 for catalog of over 16,000 topics, to assist your writing eff­orts and help you beat Writers' Block. For info., call TOLL-FREE 1-Soo-621­5745. (In Illinois, call 312-922-0300.) Authors' Re­search, Rm. 6(X)-N, 407 South Dearborn, Chicago IL 60605. 
Can youaffordtogamble

with the LSAT, GMAT, 
GRE,orMCAl? 
ProbablY not. Great grades 

alone may not be enough to 
impress the grad school of 
your choice. 
Scores play a part. And 
that's how Stanley H. Kaplan­

can help. 
The Kaplan -course teaches 

test-taking techniques, reviews 
course suqjects, and increases 
the odds that you'll do the best 
you cando. 
So if you've been out of 

school for a while and need a 
refresher, or even if you're fresh 
out ofcollege, do what over 1 
million students have done. 
Take Kaplan. Why take l
a chance with your career? 
KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl GNTER LTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219)' 272-413.5 

Electrical Engineers...Computer Scientiste... 
Mathematicians...Language Specialiste. 
The National Security Agency analyzes foreign signals, safeguards our government's vital com­munications and secures the government's massive computer systems. 
NSA's unique, three-fold mission offers you unheard of career opportunities. Here are just a few of the exciting possibil1ties: 
Electrical Engineering. Research and develop­ment projects range from individual equipments to complex interactive systems involving micro­processors, mini-computers and computer graphics. Fac111ties for engineering analysis and design automation are among the most advanced anywhere. 
Computer Science. Interdisciplinary careers in­clude systems analysis and design, scientific applica­tions programming, data base management systems, operating systems, graphics, computer security and networking-all in one of the world's largest com­puter installations. 
Mathematics. Projects involve giving vitally im­portant practical applications to mathematical con­cepts. Specific assignments could include solving communications-related problems, performing long­range mathematical research or evaluating new techniques for computer security. 
La~uage Specialists. Challenging assignments for Slavic, Near-Eastern and Asian language majors include rapid translation, transcription and analysis /reporting. Newly-hired language specialists may receive advanced training in their primary language(s). 
In addition to providing you with unheard of chal­lenges, NSA offers a highly competitive salary and benefits package. Plus, you'll have the chance to live in one of the most exciting areas of the country­between Washington, D.C., and Baltimore, Md. 
Sound good? Then find out more. Schedule an in­terview through your College Placement Office or write to the National Security Agency. 
NSA will be on campus October 11, 1985. :Fbr an appointment, contact your placement office. 
Limited summer opportunities for juniors majoring in Electrical Engineering, Computer Science and the above for lign languages. 
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY ATTN: M322(N) Fort Meade, MD 20755-6000 
U.S. Citizenship required. An equal opportunity employer. 

The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1985-page 6 
Chinese Politburo turns younger 
-

IMF decries protectionist tide 
Nancy gets look 
Nancy Reagan gestures as she tours the damage from two devas­tating earthquakes in Mexico City Monday. 
APPhoto 

IMTVI• !HftQ1• INDTVI• 
I 

AN N.D. STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
'-'?PEt_~.~ l REPC7RT 
0 0 
A volunteer for the Vanderburgh 

County Humane Society, Miss Ritz 
kept the dogs penned on a rural lot 
in Posey County, where a complaint 
was filed by the Posey County 
Humane Society. 
The charge was filed after Gooden 

reviewed a report on the animals' 
condition prepared by veterinarian 
Barbara Geistfeld, who said all ofthe 
dogs were malnourished and several 
had worms and severe skin infec­
tions. 
Carol Dudasko, a cruelty inves­tigator -for the Posey County Humane Society, called the dogs' condition "deplorable." 
"This is· probably the most massive case ofneglect I've ever run across," she said. 
The dogs, strays collected from the Humane Society pound in Evansville, were seized last week on a rural lot where Miss Ritz said she kept and fed them because she didn't want to see them killed. 
"I ·fully admit I ha'Ve too many dogs," she told the Mount Vernon Democrat newspaper. 
"My dogs have food, water, shel­ter, veterinary care and all the love I can give them," she said. Miss Ritz could not be reached for comment yesterday. 
Humane Society officials in Van­derburgh County were aware of the situation ·but took no action because of Miss Ritz' value as a volunteer. 
CAMPUS CABLE TV COMMITTEE Anyone interested in working on a committee to study the feasability of installing ?AY TV on campus is cordially invited to an organizational meeting on Wed., Sept. ~5. 
at 6:00 PM in the La Fortune Little Theater. 
f/J~~ 
lnjonntltion Sessi_~n 
Conducted by Fr. Andre'Liveilll, C.S. C. Sunday, Sept. 29 Libraty Lounge 
2:00V!Ut~$~Olnd 
6uH­
~ 

for anbiaptlsed penons trisblna to become a member 
r.f tbe Roman Catbolie Church 
0 fF.J CE 0 F. tor baptiled pei'IOIII UNIVERSITY n•UaaFun Commualon MINISTRY 1 Ill tbe Catbollc Tradldon 
for diose deslrlna to kno,. more about tile Roman Catbollc fmtb 

for baptised CathoDes deslrlna to eeleb..­tlle SaCnuiaent ofCo..,..,....on 
AssoclatedPress 
PEKING -In a triumph for top 
leader Deng Xiaoping, the Com­
munist Party promoted five younger 
policymakers to the ruling Politburo 

on yesterday replacing old 
revolutionaries with a new genera­
tion to guide China's reform. 

But the scale of the transition was "less than diplomats and Chinese sources forecast, and there was no replacement in the Politburo Stand­ing Committee for Marshal YeJiany­ing, who retired last week. 
The Standing Committee is 
China's top policymaking body. 
Deng, 81, retained his own post of 

chairman of the Central Advisory 
Commission. No one had expected 
him to step down. 
All of the new Politburo appoin-
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Import curbs to protect jobs in troubled industries could threaten the entire world trading system, the International Monetary Fund warned yesterday. 
The warning came in the IMF's an­nual report, released as President Reagan was mounting a campaign to head off increasing attempts in Congress to pass protecti'lnist legislation for American industries. 
The report was prepared in time for the annual meeting of the 149­member IMF and its sister organiza-
Volunteer 
saves dogs but still gets charged 
lbsodated Press 
MOUNT VERNON, Ind. -A humane Society volunteer who tried to keep about 50 dogs that would have been killed otherwise was 
charged  yesterday  with  animal  
cruelty.  
Posey  County  Prosecutor  Bill  

Gooden said Pat Ritz of Evansville apparently meant well, but the poor condition iri which the dogs were kept justified the charge. 
Miss Ritz, 40, would be served with a summons to appear in court on the misdemeanor charge, 'which carries a maximum six-month jail term, Gooden said. 
tees are Deng proteges and have ad­vanced rapidly. in the party apparatus since he emerged as :;enior leader in 1978. 
The changes were made during a full meeting of the party Central Committee in Peking. It capped a series ofthree meetings which Deng used to bring iq newcomers to con­~inue market-oriented reforms he launched seven years ago. 
State-run television showed the 
210 Central Committee members 
shoving ballots into a red box in the 
Great Hall OfThe People. · 
Although 10 party elders volun­tarily resigned from the Politburo s~pt. 16, only six seats were filled, one by a_ previous alternate, Vice Premier Yao Yilin, 68. 
The Politburo· Standing· Commit­
tion, the World Bank, next month in 
Seoul, South Korea. 
'The IMF helps indebted countries 
fashion austerity programs that en­
courage private banks to supply ad­
ditional credit. The World Bank 
deals with long-term development 
projects in poor countries. 
"Output growth in 1984 was the strongest in almost a decade, and in­flation continued to recede," said the report, adding there were ·"encouraging signs" that the recovery is spreading to the 
developing world. 
tee, focused around Deng, now has five members instead ofsix. 
"It probably means they couldn't agree on names, and they wanted a united front, getting everybody 'on board," said one diplomatic analyst, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The Central Committee Secretariat, .which runs day-to-day affairs, was altered from nine seats and two alternates to 11 full mem­bers, with three newcomers replac­ing retirees. 
The newcomers were led by Hu QUi, 56, China's fastest-rising politi­cal star. A former Communist Youth League boss and mayor ofTianjin, he is expected to succeed his mentor, Hu Yaobang, 69, as party general 
secretary. · · 
Many developing countries face better prospects because they have been able to earn more from in­creased exports and because they had used "increased firmness" in economic austerity programs at home, it said. 
It did not single out any countries for criticism, but the United States, which has a trade deficit approach­ing n 50 billion, has. used quotas to reduce steel imports. Japanese restraints on exports of cars to the United States have only recently been lifted. 


11?.
:V..:Jrtan ' d 
Wednesday,September 25 Engineering 
Thursday, September 26 Auditorium 
7,9,1lpm 





~~;-~ 
Fr. Ted Dziak, S.J. of 
t 

International 
JESUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS(J.V.C.) 
Library Concourse 1-2:30 Center for Soda/ Concerns 2:304 come to discuss options 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Would you like to see your Artwork 
in prominent places all over ____., campus? 
Be an artist with the 
Student Activities Board Calendar Commission For more info call Vera at 239-7605 
I fll!IU& ta :sam u ; 

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES PRESENTS 

--,. 
APPhoto

Not messing around 
A S. W.A. T team atop the United Nations Library meeting. They are part ofextensive security at this watchesfor problems at the U.N.'s 40th anniversary week's U.N. meeting in New York. 

gaining weight. But my game turned into something else. A way of life. Bulimia had taken over. Making me feel guilty. Alone. And out of control. 
One phone call helped me begin to change all that. When I con­tacted HOPE, I discovered a spe­cial program designed by Memorial Hospital of South Bend that helps people like me who have eating dis­orders. By the end of the program I was finally feeling better about myself -finally feeling like I was in control. 
If you or someone you know has an eating disorder, call284-7151. And discover how HOPE can help. 


HOPE 
Healthy Options for Problem Eaters An affli1a1c of Mcrmlflal Hosp1lal of Soulll 8£)11d ffi 

615 North Michigan • South Bend, IN 46601 
The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1985-page 7 
Firm ships 'Hu01mer' 
Associated P~u 

MISHAWAKA, Ind. -AM General 
began shipping the first ofmore than 
50,000 of its "Hummer" all-purpose 
military trucks yesterday. 
"This is the day we have been waiting for," said Eugene Zembruski, general manager of the company's program that produces the vehicle under a $1.2 billion con· tract with the Army. 
The company shipped about 60 of the vehicles yesterday to Army field units at Fort Lewis, Wash., and Fort Ord, Calif. 
About 1,200 people work at the plant on Mishawaka's east side, which is now in the second week of a three-week production shutdown. Zembruski said the shutdown was necessary to make changes in the plant to allow for mass production of 
weapons carrier vehicles, another 
one of 1 5 different versions of the 
Hummer. 
Donald Gilleland, a company spokesman, said although the average price for all the models Is about $25,000, the utility vehicle that was shipped yesterday costs only about SI9,000. He said the basic Army Jeep costs $17,000. 
"The Army is getting a lot more vehicle for that $2,000," said Gil­leland. "This has five times the Jeep payload and can go places and do things a Jeep could never do." 
AM general said Tuesday it had fully corrected a mechanical problem discovered in Army testing of the Hummer earlier this year. Front delve shafts snapped while Hummers were driven at high speed during the tests. • 
Peace 

continuedfrom page 1 
as saying Shevardnadze may propose a 40 percent reduction in nuclear launchers and warheads. 
But when asked about the reports during a stop in Knoxville, Tenn. on yesterday Reagan indicated he was not impressed, saying, "It would be a better idea if it was more" than 40 percent. 
Both Washington and Moscow seem to be going all-out in their recent statements in an effort to gain the psychological advantage in ad­vance ofthe summit. 
In his speech, Shevardnadze accused the United SCates of trying to _achieve a first:strike attack capability through the development of a defensive shield against Soviet missiles. Washington·has denied it, saying space-based · defenses are necessary to oftSet a Soviet advantage in heavy missiles. 
Shevardnadze said the Soviet leadership would respond to the American space challenge, if the ad· ministration goes ahead with Star Wars, at whatever cost and that he had been directed to make this clear to the United Nations. 
Adworks, the new student 
government advertising agency, is 

continuedfrom page 1 contracted to pay S3.4'5 per column 
inch for camera-ready ads since it 

They have a right to see its ex­saves The Observer supplies and 
penditures," said Healy. labor. Camera-ready ads are ads that 
When asked how he would are ready for publication and need 
respond to a student request to see no further production work. 
Student Government's books, Healy Adworks pays $3.6'5 for ads that 
said, "It's the students' money and are not camera-ready because they 
they damn well better be open. send a large volume of advenising, 
Myself and the treasurer would even she said. 
Rates 

1
sit down and go over it with him." The SAD's contract with The Ob­
1
"I'd have no problem with that," server is $3.50 per column inch. If 
1 
said Broussard. SAB purchases more advertising "We are accountable to the stu­than contracted, The Observer of­dents in the same way as SAB," said fers a rate of 13.55 per column inch. 
~ 
Hamilton, "They want to monitor SAB ads are not camera ready, ac­
our expenditures." cording to Hamilton. 
"The one difference between The Student Government pays $3.75 
Observer and the Student Activities per column inch because it does not 
Board is that the students see what purchase a large volume, nor send 
1 
we do with their money. They get a camera-ready advertising, she said. 
newspaper," said Hamilton. "From what I hear, the public is 
"If I want to subscribe to the not concerned with our advertising 
Chicago Tribune, that's my choice," rates. Ifanyone else is interested, I'll 
Beauchamp said. "Here, however, share the information with them," 
the students don't have that choice." Hamilton said. 
Hamilton sent letters to the dozen Rick Pinkowski, a University ac­
student leaders who signed the countant in the comptroller's office 
original petition explaining the in­who oversees The Observer's 
creases in The Obsever's advertising budget under the Budget Unit Con­
rates. trol system, defended his decision 
In the past year, photo and not to release his copy ofThe Obser­
production supplies, phone line ren­ver's budget to student government 
tal and printer's fees all increased, leaders. 
she said in the letter. "No accounting firm or auditing 
In addition, The Observer must department would release a finan­
repay over $I 00,000 in loans for cial statement without that person's 
their computer and typesetter, authorization," Pinkowski said. 
Hamilton wrote. The Observer's involvement in 
"I called seven daily college the Budget Unit Control System 
newspapers at random and our ad­began when the University finished 
vertising rates are lower than all but auditing The Observer in July of 
two," she said. 1983. 
"We still have some problems," "They found a lot of problems said Healy, "One of the statistics with our organization's financial Sarah sent, she said that a school responsibility and questionable charged $4.70 ~r column inch and business practices," said Hamilton. that school doesn't collect fees from The University saw the need for students. It's incorporated and to­The Observer to be accountable, ac­tally independent from the univer­cording to Hamilton. In February of sity." 1984, The Observer joined the 
"I don't know whether the Budget Unit Control System. schools charged student fees," said The Observer must submit a Hamilton, "I just asked them, 'What budget to the University in the is your display ad rate for campus or­spring of each year and an updated ganizations?'" version at the end of the first 
But Broussard said the ad rate in­semester. Pinkowski is the final crease was still unclear. check, Hamilton said. 
"I see no problem paying that if "It improved their record keeping it's justified. I need to see some real and it helps the University keep figures," said Broussard. track of what they're doing," said 
The Observer charges a standard Pinkowski. display advertising rate for campus "The whole situati~n has forced organizations which Is $3.75 per The Observer to act y a business," column inch, Hamilton said. Hamilton said. II 
View~_O_l_·_n_t_________
w_ed-ne-sd-ay_,s_ep-te-mb_e_r2_5,-19_8_5-_pa-ge-8 
Dining hall'sociopath' wreaks havoc 
Today I am not concerned with the South African crisis, baseball's cocaine scandal, nuclear disarmament, or the strained relation­, ship between the sexes in our isolated Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. The phenomenon I wish to relate is far more frightening and far more close to each of us. For while none of us can truly comprehend the horrors of apartheid, the pressure of a professional sports career, the fears in the minds of our Cold War leaders, or even how the better half thinks, all of us have ap­preciated the terror of the Dining Hall 
Sociopath. 
Dan Casey 
smoke signals 
You know of whom I speak -the maniacs who take out their frustrations on those of us who simply want to get our lunch, sit down, and eat. The Dining Hall Sociopath is not in­terested in eating, but rather in preventing ot­hers from doing so. He comes in many forms but his goal is the same-to create disorder and 
Petitions at mass contradict homily 
DearEditor: 
Last Sunday's ten-thirty Eucharist had been scheduled as the official opening mass of the school year, so I went to an earlier liturgy, in order to avoid the wall-to-wall crowds. The priest delivered a thoughtful homily which exhorted us, as Christians, to devote ourselves to serving others, rather than to waste time and energy in order to vaunt or vindicate our­selves. This powerful message was followed by the traditional litany of petitions, at least three out of five of which began: "For the Notre Dame family, that God will...etc." Not a word about the Mexican earthquake victims, not a word about the world's hungry, not even a word about our more immediate neighbors who live outside the charmed circle of self­satisfied Domers. Seldom have I heard the main point of a homily more quickly contradicted in the course of a Eucharist. I was reminded ofMark Twain's observation that, "There are few things as impressive as the calm confidence of a Christian-with four aces." 
Rev. IsaacMcDaniel 
AJchoholpollcyisin our best interests 
DearEditor: 
The statement by a Notre Dame student that, through the alcohol policy, the Univer­sity has taken away our social life, is simply uncreative and narrow-minded. The com­ment, "they somehow pressure South Bend into eliminating our social aci:ivites off campus, too," is even more unfortunate. 
Austin Henry's letter ofSept. 17seems to be saying the University and the South Bend police have gotten together to outlaw social gatherings. Do you suppose if 100 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students got together for an off-campus party, at which alcohol was not the focus, the South Bend police would 
Doonesbury 
misery for anyone trying to get a bite to eat on borrowed time. 
What causes produce the Dining Hall Sociopath? Perhaps it is the intense pressure of academic life that makes him crack. Probably too many theology classes. Maybe · genetic factors are involved; he was probably born into a large, unstable family filled with psychopaths, criminals, freaks, deviants, and Democrats. Perhaps it was something in his childhood-parents who were strict at the din­ner table. At any rate its he waits for you, the innocent student, to come into his twisted domain of trays, crowds, Vali-dines, and second rate food. 
You enter the dining hall, and the Sociopath cuts in front ofyou to grab an Observer. Going through the checkers, his card successfully jams the computer for 15 minutes. He turns and smiles at you, as if in apology, but you know instinctively that he did it on purpose. At the silverware bin, he stops to drop three or four spoons in your way and saunters on, leaving you to deal with an irate employee, with fishnets in her hair, who assumes that you were responsible for the dropped silver. 
In the dinner line, he invariably commits the cardinal sin of asking for two of the bite­sized entrees instead of one. The servers, being professionals, and under the eyes of their superiors, of course refuse his re.quest. Not content to move on and let you get your meal, he instead attempts to argue with the servers on Utilitarian grounds that the time saved in his getting two meals is worth the violation of the rules. The servers cannot be moved and the Dining Hall Sociopath goes away disgruntled to wreak havoc elsewhere. You breath a sigh ofrelief but deep down you know that he, like Loki in Norse mythology, will get you again. 
He strikes at the Coke machines. You are just about to finish pouring your drink when you are bowled over by the Sociopath, who is attempting to get a glass of Cherry Coke. Sociopaths love Cherry Coke. You look down at your tray. Your meal is swimming in soda. The Dining Hall Sociopath merely smiles at you, as if he is unaware ofwhat happened. You grimace, and walk on. 
As you try to get a salad, deftly picking your way through the crowd like Allen Pinkett at the line of scrimmage, dodging left and right, he comes out of nowhere to get you again, 
disperse the "savage college students?" I don't, either. 
The thought I have here is, if the modera­tion or removal ofalcohol would cause such a social disaster, then what does that tell you about the social life? 
As far as no social life goes, I'd hate to be the one chosen to try to attend even every other social event that Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's has to offer on an average weekend. It would be impossible. 
I would have gone to the movies, dances, lectures, countless meetings, a slew of club get-togethers, theatrical performances, sport­ing events and possibly even a concert at the ACC. This is all, of course, if the Student Ac­tivities Board didn't have a Chicago trip going on. 
Now I'm just a square that lives on campus, but I'm also sure I could find plenty to do with my off-campus apartment without attracting "numerous vehicles and excessive man­power" from the South Bend police. 
Friends tell me students don't want to hear my optimistic alternatives, that they want to have on and off-campus parties with plenty to drink and no hassle. To those I might refer back to Henry's article which reminds us that the "glorious alcohol policy" was declared last year. Yes, last year. 
So why is it that this year we have some people returning to Notre Dame, knowing full well that Indiana University, Purdue and Uni­versity of Miami, as well as most colleges and universities, have no alcohol policy? 
Don't get me wrong, I think off-campus parties with alcohol are great and should be enjoyed by our community forever. But please, if you are at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's with full understanding that the Uni­versity has taken an effort to eliminate ex­cessive alcohol use and abuse, don't be surprised when a party with an alcohol focus gets broken up. 
The University simply is not kidding. Does anybody else share my feeling that it would be a lot easier for the University to just let us drink excessively? That they have our best in­terest in mind? 
DJ.Doyle Holy Cross Hall 
Saint Mary's tickets should be same price 

DearEditor: 

We would like to address some ofthe points that Don Johnson brought up in his letter to the editor on September 20th. First of all, St. Mary's has never claimed to be Notre Dame of 
U.S. 31. As for Don Johnson's contention that we are not fellow students, Education and Theatre majors would beg to differ. Notre Dame Education majors get their degrees through St. Mary's. Notre Dame Theatre majors also enjoy our facilities at O'Laughlin at no extra charge. In addition, St. Mary's and Notre Dame students participate in a co­exchange program for taking classes; the schools where many students take classes during the summer are not part of this program. Therefore, why should those other institutions partake in Notre Dame Football Ticket distribution? 
"How I long for the Grotto . . . If I could go to the Grotto now and then, I think I could sing again. I could be full offaith and poetry and loveliness and know more beauty, tenderness, and com­passion That Grotto is the rock to which my life is 
Garry Trudeau 

stopping you just short ofthe French dressing, your hypothetical first down. Cut off, you stray into a line of people waiting to use the microwave oven, grim Nazi types who are about to commit unspeakable acts on their food. You give up on the salad, and leave your tray momentarily unattended at the coffee machines to.go in search ofCaptain Crunch. 
There is none. You return to your tray; it is gone. The Dining Hall Sociopath has struck again. 
Instead of waiting for the Sociopath's ran­som terms, you start at the beginning. You hold onto your tray for dear life, ignore get­ting a drink, and move on. You simply want to reach your seat, eat quietly, and escape the building which he has turned into a veritable gauntlet. You sit down alone, for any friends you came with have not seemed to have any trouble with the Sociopath, but have escaped unharmed. You open your Observer, and you receive the cruelest blow ofall. 
He has taken over the Editorial page. There is no escape. 
Dan Casey is a junior history major at NotreDame. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Since football at Notre Dame is classified as a men's sport, St. Mary's students cannot play on the team in order to make it an ND/SMC football team; needless to say, most girls (SMC or ND) do not want to play on the team anyway. We do, however, support the team as enthusiastically as our ND counterparts. 
Although the women ofSt. Mary's are sleep­ing easier knowing that Don Johnson finds no fault with us, we do not see the connection between dating a St. Mary's girl and the une­qual price offootball tickets. It is precisely his kind ofattitude regarding St. Mary's and Notre Dame which enables whatever trace of estrangement that exists to remain. We like to think that St. Mary's and Notre Dame share a special relationship not akin to many colleges and/or universities, regardless of the price of football tickets. 
Kara Toomey 
Marian Musical 
LemansHa/1 

Quote ofthe Day 
anchored. Do the stu­dents ever appreciate what they have, while they have it. I know I never did." 
-Tom Dooley Hong Kong December 2, 1960 Excerpt from his last letter to Father Theodore Hesburgh 
Policy 

• 
The Observer encourages commen­taries from all members ofthe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 

• 
Commentaries appearing in The Obser­ver do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofThe Observer. 


"ie~P-~O_i_n_t___________________________________________w_e_d_n_es_d_a_y,_s_e_pt_e_m_b_e_r_z_s,_l_9_8_S_-_P~ag~e--9 
P.O. Box Q 
Smith's argument still leaves questions 
Dear Editor: 
In the Viewpoint column ofSept. 17, Profes· 
sor janet Smith took columnist Bill Krais to 
task for failing to understand the Roman Cat· 
holic teachings on birth control, and 
proceded to offer some arguments to the ef· 
feet that contraception will not help the 
people about whom Krais had expressed con· 
cern. Smith, who Is chairwoman of the board 
of the Women's Care Center, obviously has 
had far more contact with individuals who are 
facing questions about sexuality and con· 
traception in a very immediate and personal 
way than have most of the rest of us. For this, 
she deserves not only our attention when she 
speak.'i on these issues, but our gratitude for 
taking on a difficult and demanding task that is 
morally incumbent upon a community like 
Notre Dame to perform. 
When I say Smith's experience in counsel· 
ing people on these issues commands our 
respect, this does not compel us to agree with 
all of her judgments. Although her very 
powerful column brings up a very important 
point about the nature of arguments often 
given in favor ofvarious forms ofbirth control 
and mentions some eye-opening facts about 
the sexual awareness of a large group of 
women who have unwanted pregnancies, it 
nonetheless leaves some very important ques· 
tions open to debate. 
Smith rightly points out that arguments in favor of birth control tend to be •Hilitarian or consequentialist; they argue from the actual or likely effects ofa proposed action to a judg· ment about the rightness ofthe action. Smith's implicit point is that utilitarian arguments are only appropriate in the absence ofindefusable obligations that would override arguments based on consequences. She believes that there are such overriding obligations here · for example, the obligation to be open to the possibility of procreation in every act of sexual union. This may be put in the form ofan argument: 
• 
All human beings have an indefusable obligation to remain open to the possibility of procreation in any act of sexual union; 

• 
Practicing any form of birth control not based on predictions of the woman's cycle of ovulation constitutes lack of openness to the pos.'iibility ofprocreation; 

• 
Therefore, all humans have an indefusable obligation to not practice such forms of birth control. 


This is a valid syllogism, but of course both premises are open to no small degree of suspicion. Smith and I are in different posi· tions with respect to our obligations to spend time considering the Pope's argument'i be· cause she is a Roman Catholic and I am not. I certainly agree that Roman Catholics have an obligation to take their denomination's theological and moral teachings very seriously even if I reserve a properly Protes· tant suspicion for the claim that they have an obligation to agree with all of them. 
In point of fact, I am willing to agree to the first premise of what I have reconstructed as Smith's argument. Indeed, I wish to strengthen it to say that openness to anything God might wish to bring about is a fundamen· tal goal ofChristian spiritual life. For example, I should be open to the possibility that the Lord might require my life of me before the day is over, and to the possibility that he wishes me to go to Africa as a missionary. This does not mean, however, that I should take no steps to protect my life, or that I should make a point of talking to the missionary board about going to Africa as a missionary. This kind of openness to God's will is an attitude of the spirit, a submission of my will to God's. 
If these analogies carry over to the open· ness to procreation, the second premise ofthe argument is on very shaky ground. I see no reason why a married couple cannot use some forms of birth control and still be open to the possibility that God will bring it about that they conceive a child in spite of their use of birth control devices. It may be indelicate to name such matters, but God is just as capable of producing a leaky condom as he is of · causing a couple to misjudge when the woman will ovulate. Nothing we might do would prevent a conception upon which God was intent. But there is little reason to believe that God has a very great interest in whether a given sexual act results in conception. Per· haps in many cases he simply leaves this up to our own sense of responsibility and to the laws of nature. If this be the case, it seems clear that in some cases we have an obligation to practice non-abortifacient forms of birth control if we live in an overpopulated area of the world or if we are unable to support a 
child. 
I do not claim that this argument should 
persuade Smith on this issue, but only that 
there is a reasonable case for contraception. 
But a more serious problem with Smith's 
column is that it fails to distinguish between 
the morality of an action and the right of an 
institution to prevent such an action. The 
issue she is ostensibly addressing is whether 
people should be educated about birth con· 
trol; a related issue would be whether we 
should permit birth control devices to be sold 
or used. (They are illegal in some countries.) 
Even if we were to agree with Smith that it is 
wrong to use birth control, it does not follow 
that we should withhold information about 
birth control from those who seek it or that 
we should prevent its use. To cite some 
analogies, we hold gluttony to be a sin, but 
would not restrict the amount of food a per· 
son may buy. We also believe some forms of 
religion are harmful and lead to damnation, 
but simultaneously hold that an individual 
should be free to worship according to her 
own conscience. Of course people who are 
against birth control should not be forced to 
educate others about it, but one could make a 
case that they should not oppose such ~duca· 
tion ifothers perform it. 
Finally, I find it interesting that half of 
Smith's column is itself devoted to utilitarian 
arguments to the effect that use ofcontracep· 
tion may in fact lead to abortions and un· 
wanted children. While her brief arguments 
here are not persuasive, the point is a sobering 
one. Perhaps more important, though, is the 
fact that our practical decisions often are 
made upon such consequentialist reasoning 
and are quite unsure. 
Steven Horst Notre Dame graduate student 
University cannot be senior's scapegoat 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to some com!Dents 
made by Peter Horvath on Monday, Sept. 16.1 
will start by questioning, isn't it a tragedy this 
cynical mentality prevails among Notre Dame 
students, particularly seniors? The other side 
of the spectrum also must be considered. 
In May 1984, I received a letter from the 
dean ofthe College ofArts and Letters stating I 
was not to return to Notre Dame. At first I was 
extremely angry. Unfortunately this anger was 
misdirected. Much like Horvath's, my at· 
titudes became very cynical and very pes· 
simistic toward both the University and its 
administration. 
This was without realizing the failings were 
my own. One needs a scapegoat for everyth· 
ing. Like myself, Horvath was unable to 
recognize early enough that Notre Dame was 
not the place for him at this time. Obviously, 
we both used the University for the same 
purpose, as a scapegoat for both of us being 
malcontents. 
In support of the University, I could 
elaborate on some specific comments he 
made, but I won't. One must accept that now, 
these are the way things are. What Horvath 
doesn't seem to realize is that everything he 
complained about is peripheral. 
His letter reinforced my view that too many 
Notre Dame students expect things to be 
handed to them on a silver platter. Through 
my year off, I learned many things. First and 
foremost, the exact opposite is true. If you 
want something, it is your responsibility to 
work for it and to get it. Secondly, the Univer· 
sity really does care about its people, and I 
would like to publically thank the deans ofthe 
College of Arts and Letters for helping me 
realize this. 
My advice to anyone is to be decisive early, 
and to stand up for things you think are right 
as soon as possible · whether it be complain· 
ing about the lack of proper student 
representation in administrative affairs or 
realizing Notre Dame isn't the right place for 
you right now and taking some time off to see 
the forest through the trees. 
Go about it in the right way. Being dis· missed or writing a letter after three years just doesn't cut it. Have a backbone and realize no one will blow your nose for you throughout life. Finally, always look at things through freshman eyes. 
Robert Sienkiewicz Notre Dame student 
ND Classroom space highly overestimated Dear Editor: 
On Sept. 10, the University's dean of ad· ministration and registrar circulated a cover letter and enclosure concerning class schedules and classrooms to deans, associate deans and other people with titles. Damned if I know why I got a copy. It's magic. 
Addressing the problem of classroom 
space, the cover letter outlines certain ad­
ministrative procedures to cope with the 
dilemma, and procedures to deal with in· 
dividual scheduling needs. Being a mere teac­
her I am not wise enough to discern whether 
procedures will relieve or complicate the 
space problem · teachers do not seem to be 
asked for advice about such arcane things· but 
I do have reservations. Something is wrong 
when 75-minute class periods, which have 
considerable pedagogical value, accom· 
modate the demands ofspace administration. 
And something is wrong when departments, 
which must consider numerous pedagogical 
factors when designing delicate class 
schedules, must be prepared to have more 
classes rescheduled at the registrar's discre· 
tion. Hard as it may be to imagine, some teac­
hers choose hours to teach for reasons other 
than the hours' popularity. 
What I find fascinating, however, is the let· 
ter's eight-page enclosure. It is the first com­
plete listing ofcampus classrooms I have ever 
seen. Like all stuff coughed up by a computer 
some of it is incomprehensible. What, pray 
tell, does the abbreviation "PCLrm" mean? 
But even a humanist can decipher enough to 
figure out that the poor unfortunate stuck 
with the job ofassigning classrooms may be in 
a fix far worse than even they imagine. 
In the listing, each classroom's number is followed by the room's floor space in square feet, the number of the room's stations (student seats), a column of administrative gobbledegook, and an abbreviation describ­ing the room's "usage" -classroom, seminar, auditorium, "PCLrm," etc. The bottom line shows that 126,325 square feet of floor ac­commodates 9,71 2 "stations" in 1 7 4 rooms. 

The list makes no mention of certain per­tinent things of interest to flesh-and-blood teachers and students. It does not mention that auditorium "stations," which account for a lot of stude~t seats, do not ordinarily have desk arms, or that many of their chairs are too far away from the podium for their occupants to see anything. It does not list map hooks, movie screens, lecterns, electric plugs, or whether teachers can control the radiator thermostat, a matter of major concern in O'Shaughnessy Hall. It does not number blackboard panels or hint whether they are black or vile green. It does not tell whether blackboards are aligned along the narrow wall of a tunnel-like room like 204 O'Shaughnessy making the back rows ofseats less than useful, or whether somebody was smart enough to arrange the blackboard'> on a rectangular room's long wall so as to keep most "stations" within sight of the professor's scribbled wis­dom. And so forth. 
Now let's look at what the list does reveal. I checked the numbers of "stations" listed for classrooms in which I have taught recently. Room 411 in the Administration Building, about which I have already had occasion to comment in this paper, claims the capacity to seat 105 bodies. Maybe Father Sorln could have packed 105 ofhis minims in there, but a realistic limit for my healthy and athletic ROTC types and football linesmen Is 80, maxi· mum. Room 204 O'Shaughnessy may be able to hold 1 12 if everybody exhales at the begin· ning of class and does not inhale again until the lecture is finished, and if the people in the back half of the room do no want to see the blackboard, and if nobody minds the body heat raising the temperature 1 5 degrees, and if a lot of the students are very friendly to begin with. But, having once experienced the hor· rorofcramming 103 people in there, I know it will not handle more than 85. Room 217 O'Shaugnessy can indeed accommodate 55 chairs, if one does not mind bumping Into the end chair ofthe first row as sooin as one opens the door, and ifone does not mind the lack of any aisle to reach the middle and rear row and ifone does not mind having to shove eight or a dozen chairs out into the hallway before each class to make room for live students, as I had to do last year, until one of the junior deans rode to the rescue and spirited the extra chairs away. Room 217 fits about 40, tops. 231 Declo, one of the new "SemGr" rooms, ad· vertises space for 12. The seminar table can handle six modern well-fed Americans com· fortably or, for a Civil War Seminar, eight average-sized Union soldiers subsisting on hard tack and beans. The other chairs, lacking desk arms, have to be crammed or piled against the walls. And the itsy·bitsy one panel kindergarten-sized chalkboard is green. 
I checked 16 rooms on the list. In every single case, experience with those rooms ind· icates that the registrar's list overestimates their capacity by 15. or 20 percent, sometimes more. Ignoring the other deficiencies to be found in too many classrooms, and leaving aside the fact that some "stations" are not in classrooms at all · an auditorium is not a clas· sroom · this University seems to have a lot less classroom space than it thinks it has. 
The registrar's people try. The lady who as; signed classrooms through last spring did me and a lot ofother people a lot ofspecial f.lvors. But there is a limit to the solutions provided by good will, administrative jockeying, pedagogical shortcuts, flexibility and appeals to the Notre Dame spirit. I think that limit has long since been passed. Classrooms matter. Think classrooms. 
Bob Kerby Department ofHistory 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
'Ihe.-ObserYer-~~ 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager.. . .. .. DlfV1d Stephenllch
P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller..... . ........... William J. Highducheck News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager .............................Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager ............... Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager ...................... John A. Men nell 
admm1stration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 

Sible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 

tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy 

available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opmions on 
Photography Editor ..... : ................... Peter C. Laches 

campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Lipo Founded November 3, 1966 
•
• 
I ' •
t 
Sports Briefs 
The ND women's volleyball team will travel to West Lafayette to take on the Purdue Boilermakers tonight at 7. -Tbe Observer 
The ND/SMC Women's Golf Club will be meeting tonight at 6:30 in the lounge of Breen-Phillips Hall. For more information, call Jane or Angie.-Tbe Observer 
More NVAinformationis available by calling 239­
6100 or by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
The Domer Runs are coming on Saturday, Oct. 5. The deadline for entries for the three-and six-mile events is Friday in the NVA office in the ACC. For more information, call 239­
6100. -Tbe Observer 

Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Observer 
Wednesday, September 2 5, 1985 -page 10 
NVA 
continuedfrom page 16 
to write this if it didn't have some value for us lazy bums? Ofcourse not (and I'm not going to trouble myself to argue about it). 
What I'm driving at in quite a roundabout way are the benefits of the recreational and social services offered by NVA. There are a bunch of events like running and aerobics for people who like to sweat, but there are even more for those of us who just want to meet people, have a good time, act crazy and just basi­cally stop sitting around our rooms. 
I'm talking here about putt-putt golf, water volleyball, broomball, cross-country skiing, bowling, 
Taylor 
continuedfrom page 16 
lot," says Faust. "It all depends on how he comes around (from the in­jury)." 
Moore says that Taylor's positive attitude will ensure his future success on the gtidiron. 
"He's a real coachable young man," said Moore. "If he continues to work at it, he'll see a lot ofplaying time before he's through here." 

horseback riding, pumpkin carving, table tennis and even a trip to a drive-in movie (but don't forget about Rule 1.8 ). 
Anybody -and I mean anybody ­can participate in these events. Let's face it, there just is not a whole lot of energy expenditure required in pumpkin carving. And even the most inept ofpeople can sit on the back of a horse for an hour or so. 
And if you're hoping to acquire a skill more valuable than pumpkin carving (although this is a highly marketable skill and recommended for Arts and Letters majors), you can take a course in kayaking or karate. Or scuba diving (for when you lose your kayak). 
If taking notes is the most ener­getic exercise you wish to un­dertake, you can attend clinics in such things as small craft safety or fly fishing techniques. 
Taylor chose to attend Notre Dame over several schools in California which had recruited him. He says that the academic reputa­tion of Notre Dame heavily in­fluenced his decision. 
"The academics really got me to come," commented the psychology major. "I could have gone to USC or UCLA. They were closer to home, and they wanted me to go there, but I just thought Notre Dame was the best school for me." 
Taylor looks forward to the an­nual Bengal Bouts -the Notre Dame 
And when you think you may ac­tually be getting that limp body back into shape, those guys at NVA will test your body fat and do a full fitness analysis of the old bod. 
Okay, now here is the big clincher: a lot of this stuff is FREE! And when that's not possible, the fees charged are usually about the same as the price ofa Huddlebur~er 

for hours of enjoyment. Look at it 
this way: you won't have to make 
that long trek to the credit union 
very often. 

So here's what you should do: take a leisurely stroll over to the NVA office to find out what's going on. Or give them a call at 2 39-6100. Or read the sports briefs in The Observer. Or read the bulletin board in your hall, for goodness sake. Just find out what's going on and get involved! 
Then, if you want, you can call me 
up and we'll order a pizza. 

intramural boxing tournament. Last year, he defeated teammate, tight­end Tom Rehder, for the super­heavyweight title. 
"You just have to stay close on him," says Taylor of his strategy for defeating the 6-7 Rehder. "Ifyou get away from him, he'll kill you." 
The same aggressive attitude, Moore feels, is Taylor's strongest at­tribute on the field. 
"He's a strong blocker and a hard runner," says Moore. "He's a ded­icated football player." 
The Ohserr•er ~otn· Damt· offin·. lotatnl on tht· third lloor of l.al·onum· Studt:nt Ct:ntn. acct:pts da"ifkd adn·rtising from') a.m until ·I p n1. \lonlla' throu~h friday The Ohserr·er Saint \lary·s ol'fin· lot·atnlun tlu-third lloor ut Haggar Colkgt· Ct·ntt·r. acn:pts da,sifiell' from I 2 .~CJ p 111 unul -~ p n1. .\Ion· dav thou~h hida' lkadlint· ti>r next-tla' da"ilinl' " ~ p.m All da"olit·ll' must he prepaod. eithn in pnson or h' mail ( hargc" ICJ t ellis per fiH·t·harac·
Classifieds 
tc:rs n dav. 
NOTICES 
The Obeefver ia IICCOIIlting applicationa 
lor:Aeel_l,_......... For more information or an application, contact tMrk Johnaon at the Obeefver, 23&-5303. 
TYPING AVAIL.A8l.E 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHNI 234-1117 
EXPERT TYPING 'l77-a534 AFTER 5:30 
BUSINESS EXPRESS. INC. Wordprcx:.-ing and typing 272-8827 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER. 233-7009 
TYPING-term papera, r.u"-. lett.,., applicationa. R--ratea; pickup and deivery on campu-avlilloble. C8l CathySchultzbel-.5-10pm'l77-5134 
$10.$360 Weeldy/Up Mliling Circulera! No quotaa! Sincerely intereated rulh aelf­llddr-.d envelope: Suc:ceu, POBox 4 70CEG. Woodatock, IL 60098. 
WANTED-Oriv.,. needed to deliver The Obeefver. Takea about 2. hou,. a day. good pay. II intereated cal Mark Potter at 239-5303 or 2450. Driv.,. needed lor d 
deya. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: Man'a brown roaary, poeaibly in or ,_CCE on Friday Sept 13. Pieae cal Bdl at 233-2784. 
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. 
' PLEASE CONTACT ALICE IF YOU KNOW OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. VERY IMPORTANT. 232~9. 
LOST BlACK CASIO 100 METER THERMOMETER SPORT WATCH. ALARM IS SET FOR 5:40 PM. LOST &­17-a5 SOMEWHERE BETWEEN CAVANAUGH AND CUSHING. CALL SAM SIEWERT . AT 1431 (228 CAVANAUGH). 
Loat: Purple book bag on 9/18 at the aouth dining hal. pleae retum by calling me at2n-8336 or draping it of! at the !oat & found office Realy need my notes and booka. Thano whoever you ate? Ike 
HEY DOMERS!!! My blue NO bookbag -takenfrom the South Dining Hal alter dinner Thu,..ay the 19th. Contenta: 2
-ell•. room keya, 
very important P8Yclo-book ancs notes. PLEASE cal me at4051. Thanlca. 
LOST THURS GOLD HEINEKIN WATCH.SENTIMENTAL VALUE-I WEAR IT TO ALL OF THE PARTIES.PLEASE CALl CHRIS AT 3810 FOR REWARD. 

LOST: BLUE BACK PACK (JANSPORT) IN SOUTH DINING HAll DURING LUNCH ON 9/19. IF FOUND OR PICKED UP BY MISTAKE, PLEASE CALL TERESA AT 3491 OR TAKE IT TO THE LOST AND FOUND OFFICE (LAFORTUNE). I NEED THE BOOKS AND NOTES FOR TESTS. 
I HAD MY STUDENT TIX BEFORE THE MSU GAME, NOW I DON'T. I WOULD LOVE TO HAVE THEM.$$$SSSSSSSSSSSSS I THINK I LOST THEM AT SENIOR BAR. PLEASE CALl. LARRY AT 11n.1 WILL IDENTIFY THE SECTION AND SEAT NUMBER. THANK'S. 
LOST: AT THE COMMONS SAT NIGHT. I LOST MY NO RUGBY JACKET. PLEASE RETURN IT AND THE KEYS INSIDE. REWARD GIVEN. CALl JIM AT 287-5425 
LOST ONE KEY ON WHITE PLASTIC KEYRINGI MISSING ON 9/18 IF FOUND, CALL2818 
FOUND: Purl bracelet-Friday, between Farley and C2 parking lot Cell Julie X4071 to claim 
La.T:IIY I.D. AT THE FOODALL GAllE lAT. IT INCLUDED IIY DETEX(IT8 A PO IIEPU.CEIIENT FEE) lOME IIONIY, AND IIY PIIAYEJI CAIIDI TO IT. JUDE! PLEAIE IIETUIIN TO KATHLEEN, 211 a.P. OR CALL 12111. 
LOST: PLATINUM DIAMOND ENGAGE­MENT RING IN OR AROUND STADIUM OR ACC PARKING LOTS. GENEROUS REWARD OFFERED. CALL DAVE AT 283-1649. 
LOST: PAIR OF ADIDAS CLEATS. LEFT IN "A" LINE LAST WEEK. PLEASE RETURN, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CASH REWARD OFFERED. CALL 2002 OR DROP OFF AT 419 STANFORD. 
LOST: Kanau Driv.,. Litenae. Robert Coover, 1025 Emery Rd., Lawrence , Kanau. 8F.1175 lba. Oeaperate! II found call288-5447. Rewatd! 
--FOUND--Sharp electronic calculator. found about a week ego in O'Shllg. Call Chria at 1679 to identify. 
Silver and orange bracelet found on North Quad lut Friday. II miaaing, pleue con­tact Pat 4241. 
LOST LOST!!! lloat a gold Elgin watch w/ brown leather band. prob-ably on Wed­neaday the 18th.lt could have left it in the dark room in the All Building. Pleae. pleue return it to me; it hu great aen­timental value and ill don'llind it my mot­her wiU KILL me. CALL JIM at 3414. Thano.S 
HELP ME, PLEASE!! I !oat my football ticketa alter the Michigan game between the atadium and St. Louia St. II any kind hearted good Chriatian-type-ot-lettow linda them (aec 31, atudent) P'-· pleue, pi-cal Barb! 2721 (329 PW) 
Loa!: blue beck pack in aouth OH 9/24 
-end at lunch contenta: canv. Con­v-lhoea, T.H. South T-lhirt and ahorta,aocka and notebool< ff found pleue call Kathleen at 3884 THANKS! 
L....--_FO_R_R_EN_T____.j 
Student -two rooms, ahower, private entrance all utiUtiea paid 288-o955/2n­
3604 

2 lg. bdnna. $270 incl. heat. Grada. n­w/aide, 15 mina. from campua. Cell 234­5570 alter 4:30. 
Wanted: Mature, non-smoking person to lh•e pleuent 3 BR home with 2 grad studenta. $130 monthft util. 11314 mi. from NO. 232-8327. 
Private rm in quite home lor Chriatian lady. Non-smoker. $150/mo. Coin laundry, kitchen privileges option. 233­1159, Karen Loebriclo. 
Roommate needed to share 3br houaa ctoae to NO. Celt 287-4748 
WANTED 
Need ride to Dloyton any weekend. Cell Maria4174. 
NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS ON 9/27 ­9/29. CALl MONICA 284-5171. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED FOR BEG. OF OCT. NOTRE DAME APTS. 112/month. CONTACT ALICE 232-8069. 
STUDENTS TO PASS OUT SAMPLES IN AREA GRO. STORES. CALL 815-485­8134 (10.2PM OR CONTACT FIN. AID ATNDORSMC. 
Ride needed to Purdue Sat. Morn. Returning Sat. night or Sun. morn. S•ah, SMC4443. 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO LEAVING 9/27 RETURNING 9/29.CALL CHRIS OR LISA AT 4401. 
WANTED-Driv.,. needed to deliver the Obaerver. Takes about 2 hou,. a day, 
-good pay. Driv.,. needed tor d daya. II intereated call Marl< Potter at 23&-5303 or 2450. 
........................................... 
WANTED FULL OR PART-TIME TEM­PORARY HELP FOR LANDSCAPING AND LAWN MAINTENANCE. APPLY AT KNOLLWOOO INFORMATION CENTER, CORNER OF ADAMS AND GUMWOOO ROADS 9-4 MON-FRI M/F. 
MY SISTER IS GETTING MARRIED AND I AM IN THE WEDDING. HER SHOWER IS THIS WEEKEND. I NEED A RIDE HOME. I LIVE IN CHICAGO (ACTUALLY A SOTHWESTERN SUB­URB OF CHICAGO). CAN YOU HELP ME OUT? IF YOU VALUE LARGE, CLOSE, CATHOLIC FAMILIES AND YOU DON'T WANT TO SEE ME EX­PELLED FROM MINE, PLEASE GIVE ME A RIDE HOME. I WILL BE HAPPY TO SHARE GAS EXPENCES, ETC. IF YOU CAN HELP ME OUT CALL MAUREEN AT2871. THANKS! 
Need ride to Cleveland 9/27 Call Debbie 2966 
L---1_FO_R_S_A_LE~ 
1976 CHEVETTE NO RUST, VERY SHARP. 56.000 MILES. 4 SPEED $1800 CAN BE SEEN MONDAY SEPT.23 PLEASE CALL 233-2090. 
MACINTOSH! MUST SELL! MAKE OF­FER! 2n-8452 
TICKETS 
I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY GA'S OR 4 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT 17330R 1757 
I IIMd 4 ttckele lor ND-UIC. c:allllark at211N8to. 
I badly need G.A.'a lor all home gamea. Call Marty at 1 050. 
NEED 2 OR 3 PURDUE GA'S CALL GLORIA 284-4306. 
I DEIPEMTELY NEED 2 AJIIIIY G.A. TIX. WILLING TO PAY GOOO IIONEYII IF YOU CAN HELP, CALL TIM AT 4246 OR JOHN AT 1628 
PIIOOIGAL IONI NEED TWO ARMY G.A.'S TO GET BACK IN THE HOUSE. MONEY IS NO CONCEIIN TO US It PLEASE CALl TIM 4246 OR JOHN 1628. 
NEEii..3.P"uFiii'uE..rix·.··c-Aii·4·27&..CiR 
4083 
BOSTON COMERS LOOKING FOR USC TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY $$$. CALL HELEN 2n-4324 EVENINGS 6:()()-11;00 
Help I need 2 Army GA's. Have 1 USC Stud and/or caah to trade; call Ned 1043 
I NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET TO THE ARMY GAME. CALL GREG 3047 
HAVE 2 AJIIIIY QAt NEED 2 UIC GAlt PIIEFEII TRADE 4035 
Need 1 Army GA Call Brian 1605 
I NEED 2,4,0R6 USC TIX, DAN 3475 
I NEED MANY USC TCKS. WILLING TO PAY GOOD$. CALL STEVE AT 4339. 
I NEED 4 TIX FOR ND-UIC GAllE. WITAKE 2 SETS OF 2. CALL 2114H711. ························································ 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE-NO TIX FOR A COLORADO FAN!! CALL KEVIN 4103 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR ARMY. CALL 284­5523 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE ARMY GAME. CALl SUE 284-54n. 
PERSONALS 
You ana ledthrough your Nleome bythe inner learning creeture, the playful apirituMbeing thati•your reel •elf. 
-Rlclo•d Bach. lluel-. 

OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.. 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
SMC Founders Day Writing Contest E...y ot 1Q00-1200 words on; 
1. 
lnlluence of St. Mary's put on present 

2. 
Changes in St. Mary'a College 3. Some upecta of SMC have changed; however many thinge still remain the same Pap.,. muat be typed and turned into 303 Madeleva by October 9. For more info: call Susan at 5258 ...... $50 PRIZE .... . 


Take me home to Chicago and I'M be your lriend lorever. I need a ride the weekend of Sept. 27. Call Fran at 2687. 
Help us avoid the lleantown blues. Give us a ride to Boeton or vicinity lor October break. Call Maria4174. 
NEED TWO USC GA'S. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR OR TRADE YOU L'SU GA'S FOR THEM. CALL JODI x3693. 
THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT FEATUR­ING: JOHN KENNEDY IRISH SINGER AND DANCER WED. SEPT. 25 8-12PM HCC CHAMELEON ROOM COME AND RELAX AND JOIN US FOR FREE POP­CORN AND A GREAT ATMOSPHERE 
ITS THE BEST ENTERTAINMENT ON CAMPUS!!' 
It's a small world. but I wouldn't want to have to paint it.-B.C. 
To our tavorite DIZ-NO,ARE YOU?? THB!TOTALLY HAPPY BIRTHDAY, Lisa Young! We love you! your bestest buds, 'Thy.'Rin, and 'Stin 
······································· 

HEY PARTIERSI THE PICTURE MAN is hiring PHOTOOIIAPHERI. No Ex­perience Necesaary. $4-$10 per hour. Call 232-1622 lues & Wed. Noon-4pm. Leave a meaaage if no answer. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY Usa Young. Have a GREAT day! Love you lots!! Mom. Dad, Shelli and Bully 
Katie T, Thanks lor making the game ao much lun. "Don't go backwards, dude!" Too Iunny and too coot. Will you teach me the light song? Tom 
barnade! 
.......................................... 
Flip for Maroa Ojascaatro's 20th. Love you kid 
MAKE A DRUMMER HAPPY AND TAKE HIM HOME TO CHICAGO THE WEEKEND OF SEPT. 27. CALL MARK AT1532 
BEING HELD HOSTAGE IN CLEVELAND TORTURE: MAKING ME LISTEN TO GREATEST HTS OF THE KING FAMILY RANSOM: 8 GA's lor Navy CALL: 272-4531 
WANTED-Drivers to deliver The Obser­ver. Takes about 2 houno a day. good money. Drivers needed lor all deya. II in­terested call Mark Potter at 23&-5305 or 2450. 
Some memorllble quotes from Mart<'a SYR date: "Which •m do you want me to break?" "Do you like it slow?" "You would like it that -Y becauae it would hurt more.'' "You wouldn't dare print that.'' 
Mi~ey got a 50 on hos Physics teat. What a 
god. 
YO UZARD LIPS AND THE 
JANITORIAL STAFF-While you were waiting at the hat chaclat diapanaer. I was waiting at the ven­nndoooll tor aome olthat lruit punch and Vodkall' HOTSTUFF? 
YEAYEAYEA tt'a USA YOUNG'S lltrth.-yll hope it's happy Lis II Love M•got and Eileen'! 
I'm aura you all noticed that 26 thr-an AWESOME block near the end of the Mich. St. game. Good luck to the foxiest Fighting Irishman around, Karl Hillerman! Love. S&S&C in 345. 
Hey KATHLEEN! Work hard, play h•d. I know you can pull thru the tuff limes. Keep smilin'...you lox! Much love-Jeffrey 
A desperate girt,Kim,n-a birthday kiaa.417 Lewis. HAPPY BIRTHDAY Love. Us. 

HEY KILLER, WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT J. J, AND J (AND WHEN)? SAM WANTS TO KNOW. WHAT ELSE CAN I SAY,! LOVE YOU! L. SIR JAMES 
he oaod: I'M SO HAPPY I COULD DIE. she said; DROP DEAD. and left with anot­her guy. 
SMC JUNIORS CHICAGO TRIP OCT 5 SIGN UP IN DINING HALL WED-FRI 
TODAY 
JESUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS 
JVC 
JVC 
JVC 
Fr. Ted Dziak 
Ubrwy Concouree 1-2:30 
Center!« loclal Concerne 2:30-4 
JVC JVC JVC 
Thar.k You St. Jude 
ST. JUDE, THANKS FOR ANSWERING IIY PRAYERS. I STILL NEED YOUR HELP. 
HEY FRIEND, THAT ONE WAS FROM ME. 
DEBBIE B. LET'S GO TO COLORADO!!! HOWABOUT DALLAS??? MJ 
KEGS: I'M DYING FOR SOME ACTION 
COOKS; ONCE IN YOUR LIFE YOU FINO SOMEONE 
······························· 
SLICE: KEEP IT DOWN NOW. VOICES CARRY 
MORRISSEY 360: 21 ······························ 
SMC FINANCE CLUB SMC FINANCE CLUB Mandatory meeting TONIGHT rm 304 HCC 7;30 pm Refresh menta 
DEBBIE THANKS FOR BEING SUCH A GREAT FRIEND!!!! LOVE, YOUR LITTLE SIS 

-


__,
r-----------------------~-------------------------------~--­
The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1985-page 11 
I
1 ~ ntr-A" I Dancing After 12 
I I
75¢ Shots of Peach SctillOPP5 *ALL NIGHT* I IRING IN COUPON FOR i FREE DRINK 1 
~----------------------------J 

Abiogeneszs Dance Collective 

Classes begin this week So hurry and register NOW! 
Jazz-Monday 7:00-8:00 Ballet-Thursday 7:00-8:00 Aerobics-Sunday 7:00-8:00 
For more inf . call 284-5505 
AUDI TIONSU AUDITIONSIIAUDITIONS!! ~A new and exciting tl3nco f':ompany on campus ,q..q.t.Q'K< 
"'TI 
~A~

September 28 in Regina Dance Studio(SMC) 
9:30am to? No Experience N~ce•sary 
for 

lastWednesday? 
IJon'f for-at
•:rr• S 

this Wednesday'
$4.99 speciaL 
Don'tlei this Wednesday pass without your Wednes­day speclal from DOMINO'S PIZZA40 -a 12-in::h, single topping pizza for just $4.99. It's a great way to enjoy a 
hot, custom-made pizza and savemoney. And Domino's Pizza Delivers"' Free. In 30 minutes or less, or you gel $3 oH your order. 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS® FREE. 

So remember Wednesday •.. and our $4.99 Wednesday special. It's available all eve­ning every Wednesday. Only 
from Domino's Pizza"". 
Call US:
2n-2151 
1835 South Bend Av"'. Plaza 23 Center
crll
o

1(1!, ;!1./·• 
J,.lll rr 
()/Jt:IJ ()J ' • 
Ourdnverscarrylessmen$20.00.Nocoupon necessa;r.. Jus! requeSI!he WedneS<Jav"P•· ~~~~~od dellveoJ area. c 1985 Domino's 
Mets roll, 7-1 
Red-hot Cards nip Pirates, 5-4 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Terry Pendleton singled home two runs in the first in­ning, and the St. Louis Cardinals scored twice more on a third-inning Pittsburgh error en route to their fifth straight triumph, a 5-4 decision last night over the Pirates. 
St. Louis' victory, the team's 12th in 13 games, kept the Cards three games ahead of the New York Mets as leaders in the National League East. Both have I I games remaining, including three with each other Oct. 1-3 in St. Louis. 
Pendleton's single, his third game­winning hit in five games, was one of seven hits off Pittsburgh starter Lee Tunnell, 4-10. It chased home Willie McGee and Tommy Herr, who had singled and doubled with one out. 
Rick Horton, 3-2, pitched the first five innings for the Cards in only his second start of the season. Ken Dayley got the final two outs for his It th save. 
Mets 7, Phillies 1 
PHILADELPHIA -Left-hander Sid Fernandez pitched a two-hitter as the New York Mets beat the Philadelphia Phillies 7-1 last night and held their ground against the front-running St. Louis in the Na­tional League East. 
The Mets remained three games back of the Cardinals, who beat Pit­tsburgh last night. 
~~~iX~~~~~~~~~I(S!ri~~~~~~~IGI~!a<~IC!i!JI~If)Doran in the fourth, and he held the 
PONE~ ~VN8 '85 OOTOBE~ 5 
10:00 am: THREE MILE 
11:00 am: SIX MILE 
T-SHIRTS AWARDED TO ALL FINISHERS IN BOTH RACES FIRST PLACE TROPHIES IN SIX DIVISIONS DOOR PRIZES $4.00 ENTRY FEE 
DEADLINE FOR ENTRIES: SEPTEMBER Z1 
ENTRY FORMS AVAILABLE AT NVA 

Q;:)Gt;>C~&;;>Gif)(ii)0GJ;:~I()(;il0f'S!Ii:~e<;i!eGii~ecii)f.)Gii~~i!eGii~iXi league start. His first win also came 
against the Orioles on Sept. 19. 
Reds 7, Braves 5 
.CINCINNATI -Eddie Milner's two-run homer helped rookie left­bander Tom Browning pitch his I Oth victory in a row and 19th ofthe season as the Cincinnati Reds beat the Atlanta Braves 7-5 last night. 
Milner's third homer ofthe season highlighted a four-run second inning off Braves starter Pascual Perez, 1­12, who lasted just 1 2/3 innings. 
Browning struggled through 6 I/3 innings, allowit;tg eight hits as he improved to 19-9, the most victories by a rookie pitcher in the majors this year. Harry Gaspar is the only other Reds rookie to win 19 games this century, posting a 19-11 mark in 1909. 
Padres 4, Giants 3 
SAN DIEGO -Kurt Bevacqua hit a two-run homer to cap a four-run rally, while Dave Dravecky combined with Roy Lee Jackson and Rich Gossage to beat the San Fran­cisco Giants 4-3last night. 
Gossage, the third San Diego pitcher, came on to pitch the final two innings, striking out four, for his 24th save ofthe season. 
San Diego accounted for all their scoring in the fourth inning off Giants starter Dave LaPoint, 7-1 '5, who pitched with two days of extra rest after sustaining shoulder injury in his previous start Sept. 17. 
Steve Garvey, who singled to 
tros hitless until Glenn Davis and Phil Garner hit consecutive singles in the fifth. Welch pitched his eighth complete game and lost his shutout bid in the seventh inning on Davis' solo homer, No. 18 ofthe season. 
The loss dropped the third-place Astros 12 games behind the Dodgers with 1 I games remaining. The Dodgers' magic number for clinch­ing the National league West dropped to seven games. 
Brewers 1 0, Orioles 6 

MILWAUKEE -Jim Gantner col­lected three hits, including a two­run triple that keyed a five-run Milwaukee fourth inning, to lead the Brewers to a 10-4 victory last night over the Baltimore Orioles. 
Brewers batters reached five Bal­timore pitchers for 14 hits. 
The Brewers, down 3-1going into ~their half of the fourth, batted ~around to take a 6-3 lead. Baltimore 
starter Scott McGregor, 13-13, was ~replaced in the fourth after giving up ~ three runs and failing to get an out in Q the inning. il Bill Wegman, who gave up four ~ runs in five innings, improved to his ~ record to 2-0 In his third major open the inning, advanced to second on a popup caught by shortstopJose Uribe along the left field line and scored on Terry Kennedy's single. Kevin McReynolds belted a run­scoring triple and on LaPoint's next pitch, Bevacqua tagged his third homer ofthe season. 
Rangers 5, Twins 0 
ARUNGTON, Tex. -Pete O'Brien 

hit a two-run homer and drove in 
another run with a sacrifice to carry 
the Texas Rangers to a 5-0 victory 
over the Minnesota Twins, extend­
ing their winning streak to a season­
high five games. 
Matt Williams, making his first start as a Ranger after three relief performances, earned his second victory against no losses with seven innings of two-hit pitching. He walked four and struck out four before Rich Surhoff came on in the eighth inning. 
Blue Jays 6, Red Sox 2 

TORONTO Dennis Lamp pitched 4 213 innings of shutout relief to improve his record to 11-0 and the Toronto Blue Jays scored two runs on wild throws to the plate to beat the Boston Red Sox 6.2 last night. 
The victory, combined with New York's 9-lloss to New York, gave the Blue Jays a seven-game lead over the Yankees and lowered Toronto's magic number to six. 
Lamp, who relieved rookie left· hander Steve Davis with one out and the bases loaded in the fourth, got Jackie Gutierrez to ground into a double play to end the threat and keep the game tied 2-2. Lamp, who gave up three hits, gave way to Bill Caudill in the ninth. 
AI Nipper, 9-12, who beat thejays 13-1 in his last outing, gave up just six hits and two earned runs in seven innings, and was charged with the 
loss. ­Dodgers 7, Astros 2 
HOUSTON-Bob Welch pitched a six-hitter and drove in two runs, and Mike Marshall had four hits to lead the Los Angeles Dodgers to a 7-2 vic­tory over the Houston Astros last night, eliminating the Astros from the race in the National League West. 
The victory also kept the Dodgers six games ahead of second-place Cincinnati, which beat Atlanta 7-'5. 
Welch, 12-4, did not allow a baserunner until he walked Bill 

The Obserwr Wednesday, September 25, 1985-page 12 
Oklaho01a stays in second spot 
Interhall 
continuedfrom page 16 
to improve upon," said (jrace cap­tain Paul Laughlin. "We know it'll be a tough game so we will put together some new wrinkles." 
Finally, in the Rockne Division, Carroll made an impressive debut with a 14-0 victory over St. Ed's. A pass play from Jose Castillo to Pat Tynan and a fumble recovery by John Hayes provided Carroll with their two scores. 
"We are aiming to make the playoffs," said Carroll captain Luke Welsh, "but Sorin will be very tough." 
In their contest, Sorin did prove to be tough as they dismantled Howard, 28-0. Sunday, Sorin battles St. Ed's at 3p.m. on Stepan North and Pangborn/Fisher goes against Howard at 2 p.m. on Stepan South. 
Without question, this week's ac­tion will tell usmore about some in­terhall teams. Will Sorin and Morrissey remain overpowering?
Auburn's Bo]ackson, who ended up at the top of 
Will Alumni-Holy Cross victor 
this pile in a game last season, currently finds his 
dominate the Leahy Division? How 
I will Zahm and Pangborn/Fisher fair? And, will Stanford and Dillon 
bounce back? We'll just have to wait and see! 
Auburn Tigers re01ain atop AP 

Associated Puss 
AUBURN, Ala. -The fact that Auburn has been the nation's No. 1­ranked college football team for three straight weeks doesn't have Coach Pat Dye turning cartwheels. 
"Right now, it's just an advantage ifwe go undefeated and (runner-up) Oklahoma goes undefeated," Dye said yesterday at his weekly news conference. "If I knew that would happen, I'd say it was great. But I don't see us going undefeated. 
"In fact, the best-looking team I've seen has already lost a game," con­tinued Dye... 
"Maryland (No. 17 and winner of two straight after losing to Penn State) is a powerful, powerful foot­ball team. They looked awfully 
strong the way  they  manhandled  
West  Virginia  (28-0  Saturday  
night)."  

Auburn and Oklahoma were both idle last weekend but remained 1-2 in The Associated Press poll for the third week in a row, while Southern California was upset by Baylor and plummeted from third to 18th. 
In addition, South Carolina and Il­linois, No. 1 5 and 20, respectively, last week, dropped out of the Top Twenty after suffering crushing defeats, while Air Force and Virginia made the rankings for the first time this season. 
Auburn, 2-0, received 26 of 57 first-place votes and 1,087 of a pos-
The joint Eoaioeerioc Council 
Dire SLrdllS, ~tmy 
and 

Billy Jot'l The Society of Women Eqineen 
preaent: 

CLASSICAL
JljV{(fliJIIIIIJlii(B lli/JIJIIBJfJIJr JIJJI Jr 
TAPES 
IIi!§ 

3/$1 ooo 
LONDON•DG• PHILLIPS • COLUMBIA • ANGEL • RCA 1OOs at 39!! 
Wednesday, September 25th 
lndultly Fllr 

9:00 am. to <&:00 pm oa the first floor of Fitzpatrick Hall of E1lgiAeeri1lg 
YOU CAN WALK TO TRACKS
........,...,........ 
At the corner of Edison Rd & St~ Hd. :l3 
6:30pm to 8:30pm i1l the ACC Moaogram. Room 
Just aci"Oss from the Kin~'!> Cl'llc11 
• 
28 companies represented 

• 
contact making for seniON 


1631 E-•• f-_do~o

• summer internship opportunities for underclassmen 
South B"nd
•

• 
bring resumes 

• 
learn more about engineering as a career ANA'S F'NFST DISCOUNT QFI' nqn 'tTOR1 


sible 1,140 points from a nationwide 
panel of sports writers and 
sportscasters. The Tigers visit Ten­
nessee Saturday. 
Oklahoma, which will become the last major-college team to play a game when the Sooners visit Min­nesota Saturday night, received 21 first-place votes and l ,076 points. 
Last week, with all 60 voters par­ticipating, Auburn and Oklahoma were tied 23-23 in first-place ballots, but the Tigers led in points, 1,137­1,125. 
Dye said the Auburn players aren't hung up on their No. 1 rankin~. 
AP Poll above 

"The only ones I've heard men­tion it are the media," Dye said. "I don't see any way ·being No. 1 helps us. It just helps the people we play get ready, and I don't think anyone needs any added incentive when they play us." 
With Southern Cal losing to Baylor 20-13, Iowa moved from fourth place to third with five first­place votes and 1,008 points by trouncing Northern Illinois 48-20. 
Florida State and Ohio State, sixth and seventh last week, climbed past idle Southern Methodist, which slipped from fifth to sixth. Fourth-place Florida State received 877 
SENIORS! 
points following a 19-1 0 victory over Memphis State and No. 5 Ohio Start in style at the State, a 36-1 3 winner over Colorado, 
RRSTSENIORCLASSCOCKTNLPARTY<
received 807 points, followed by SMU with three first-place votes and 787points. 
Thursday, September 26, 9pm-lam
Oklahoma State, which was idle, 

Monogram Room, A. C. C. 
jumped from eighth to seventh with 695 points. LSU defeated Colorado Semi-Formal Attire, 21 J.D. Required State 17-3 and rose from ninth to 
Cost: $4 
APPoli 
APTopT-nty 
The Top Twenty college top twenty teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in parentheses. this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame oppor)ents are italicized. 
1. Auburn (26) 2-Q-0 1.083 2. Oklahoma (21) 0-0·0 1,076 3. Iowa (5) 1,008 
4. Flo,da State 3-Q-0 en 5. Ohio State 2-Q-0 807 6. So. Methodist (3) 1·0-0 787 7. Oklahoma State 2-Q-0 695 8. LSU 2·0-0 681 9. Penn State 3-0·0 624 
10. Arkansas 2-Q-0 515 11. Florida 1-0·1 503 12. Michigan (1) 2-0-0 475 13. UCLA 2-0-1 467 14. Brigham Young 3-1·0 443 15. Alabama 3-Q-0 413 16. Nebraska 1-1-0 404 17. Maryland ( 1) 2·1·0 351 18. Southern Cal 1·1·0 328 19. Air Force 3-0-0 109 20. Virginia 2-0-0 73 
HELP 
SAVE BABIES 
~Support the 
~ ~!SD.. 9t Qiffl~ 
CASH PAID FOR LP's•TAPES•CD's 

ONLY 
Marquis Martin 
Guild 
D'Addario Dean Marldey 

eighth with 681 points. 
Penn State downed East Carolina 17-10 and went from 1Oth to ninth with 624 points and Arkansas cracked the Top Ten for the first time this season, vaulting from 14th to 1Oth with 51 5 points after blank­ing Tulsa 24-0. 

The Second Ten consists of Aorida, Michigan, UCLA, Brigham Young, Alabama, Nebraska, Maryland, Southern Cal, Air Force and Virginia. Michigan, which pounded South Carolina 34-3, and Maryland, a 28-0 winner over West Virginia, each received one first­placevote. 
Last week's Second Ten consisted of Florida, UCLA, BYU, Arkansas, South Carolina, Alabama, Maryland, Nebraska, Michigan and Illinois. 
Illinois dropped out by losing to Nebraska 52-25. Air Force raised its record to 3-0 by clobbering Rice 59­17 -the Falcons have outscored their opposition 156-30 -and Vir­ginia downed Georgia Tech 24-13 for its second consecutive triumph. 
Top40Sale All the top 40 on sale starting dt just $5.99 includes: 

---~-~--------­
The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1985 -page 13 

Commissioner makes ruling 
Ueberroth wants drug testing 
Associated Press punitive action against seven players "Anyone with a positive test who testified in the federal drug trial would receive immediate, con­
NEW YORK -Baseball Commis­in Pittsburgh, ofPhiladelphia caterer tinued testing and treatment," the sioner Peter Ueberroth asked major Curtis Strong. commissioner said. "He would get league players yesterday, to volun­"Baseball is on trial," Ueberroth counseling and help approprirate to tarily submit to drug testing. The said, "and it has suffered public the individual." players' union responded that the humiliation in the last few weeks, He said baseball's winter leagues, action tnay be unlawful and ind­not to anybody's surprise, least ofall with the exception of Venezuela, icated it would tell players to ignore to mine. I've wrestled with what to have joined the program. Venezuela the request. do as commissioner." was excluded because "they have 
At a news conference, Ueberroth Ueberroth said the program severe penalties, and we will have said he had designated a would be similar to one already no penalties," Ueberroth said. representative from each club's being used to test minor leaguers management to deliver letters to and non-playing major league per­The acting executive director ot every major league player. The let­sonnel. Tests would be done wit­the players union, Don Fehr, called ters ask players to submit to hout notice, but would always be Ueberroth's action "a plain, old· urinalysis three times a year begin­conducted in the player's club­fashioned attempt not to bargain ... ning in 1986. Ueberroth said he had house. They would be conducted by but to bypass the union." 
Peter lleberroth. the Commissioner of Baseball, is currently asked for responses to the letters by medical people, and he said there The early indication was that being faced with allegations and apparent facts of various drug Friday. would be no punitive steps taken players were favoring Ucberroth's dealings in baseball. His current actions on the subject are At the same time, Ueberroth said against players who tested proposal, with a hitch. The New detailed at right. he had decided to postpone any positively. York Mctli voted unanimously. 
Spinks expected to defend title in the near future 
Associated Press Indianapolis News yesterday. "We Portland, Ore., in Atlantic City on said that he's had an offer for and the top ticket was only S2S," have one offer so far to fight Prince Saturday night. Williams, 30, has a Johnson to fight Leslie Steward of continued Berns. "There are no TV 
INDIANAPOLIS -Michael Spinks' Muhammad in California in Novem­record of 26-26-3. Trinidad for S50,000. dates available now, but if we can't victory over former heavyweight ber. But I don't think that's the direc­Johnson won his first world cham­"They said the government of do it here without TV, we may have boxing champion Larry Holmes last tion we're going to take right now. It pionship on Dec. 2, 1978, when he Trinidad could help underwrite the to go to Trinidad. week could put Marvin Johnson in would be up to Marvin." knocked out Mate Parlov for the fight for more money," said Berns. "If the government (Trinidad) line for a shot at an unprecedented -Johnson is considered the prime WBC crown. He lost the title the fol· "We had that S50,000 offer before comes up with something like third world light heavyweight title. contender for a light heavyweight lowing spring in Indianapolis to Mat· Spinks fought Holmes," said S200,000, we'd have to go down 
The Indianapolis fighter, ranked title bout. Peltz said Spinks, who up­thew Franklin (Saad Muhammad), Clarence Doninger, Johnson's there. But I'd rather have it here for No. I by the World Boxing Associa­set Holmes last Saturday, would but later won the WBA champion­attorney-manager. Marvin's sake." tion, the World Boxing Council and have to vacate his light heavyweight ship by knocking out Victor Galin­"If we can do it here (in In· Berns said Johnson is in the tht· International Boxing Federation, crown to keep the newly won dcz in New Orleans.Johnson lost the dianapolis ), we'll go in Market driver's scat for the next world light is weighing prospects for an I7'>· heavyweight championship. WBA crown to Eddie Gregory in Square Arena," said Berns. "I think heavyweight title bout. pound title bout, assuming Spinks "He can't keep both titles," Peltz Knoxville, Tenn. we could do it here for SlOS,OOO, "He's rated No. 1, in all three vat·ates his light ht·avyweight said. "The only legitimate light He won the North American but there would have to be a guaran-ratings. Prince Muhammad is No. 2 crown. heavyweight title bout now would Boxing Federation light tee of S75,000. I think we could in the WBC, Steward is No. 2 in the 
Russell Peltz, tht• Philadelphia involve Marvin." heavyweight title last April against break even here with 6,000 fans. WBA and ).B. Williamson is No. 2 in promoter who has promotional Johnson, 39-S in his pro career, is Eddie Davis in Atlantic City. "We drew 8,400 for Marvin's title the IBF. Marvin will have his pick of rights to Johnson's fights, told The scheduled to fight James Williams of Indianapolis promoter Fred Berns fight with Matthew Franklin in 1979 any bout he wants." 

... : 

ARTHUR 
ANDERSEN 
&ro 


~--------~---~--­
The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1985-page 14 

Luther, however, said he has a let­

ter of consent from the Bulls. 1f he 
wanted to play for the Colts, he 
would only have to clear USFL 
waivers. The Colts would have to 
deal for Luther's rights from the San 
Diego Chargers, where he played 
backup quarterback before joining 
the Bulls. 
"We gave his agent (Leigh Stein­
berg) a letter saying he could talk to 
other NFL teams," said Bulls owner 

Fred Bullard. "That was several 
months ago. But we haven't heard 
anything." 
The Colts talked with Luther during the NFL preseason, said Nick Kish, director of player personnel for the Bulls. 
"The way I understand it, Ed told 

them he wasn't interested," said 
Kish. "He told them he wanted to 
play in Jacksonville." 
• But Luther said he would be in-
Yankees lose to Tigers, Niekro fails in bid 
Expos 1 7, Cribs 1 5 

Tigers 9, Yankees 1  
CHICAGO -Andre Dawson hit  
NEW YORK -Phil Niekro lost his  three home runs, including two in a  
third try at winning his 300th game  12-run, fifth inning, and drove in a  
last night, as John Grubb homered  club record-tying eight runs yester­ 
and drove in five runs and Lance· Par­ day as the Montreal Expos held on to  
rish added a two-run shot to power  beat the Cubs 17-15 in a game that  
the Detroit Tigers to a 9-1 victory  saw the two clubs hit eight home  
over the New York Yankees.  runs and get 3 7 hits.  
The 46-year-old knuckleballer,  Dawson's three homers gave him  
trying to become the 18th pitcher in  21 on the season and seven in his last  
major-league history to win 300  five games. Tim Wallach and Sal  
games, left after Parrish's home run  Butera also homered for the Expos.  
gave the Tigers an 8-0 lead with no  Jody Davis, Mickey Hatcher and  
outs in the fifth.  Gary Matthews homered for  
The loss also further dimmed New  Chicago. The Cubs had a season­ 
York's chances of catching Toronto  high 20 hits in the game, the Expos  
in the American League East. The  had 17.  
first-place Blue Jays beat Boston 6-2  Bryn Smith, 17-5, allowed five hits  
and extended their lead to seven  in six innings. Jeff Reardon got his·  
games while lowering their magic  36th save, stemming a five-run  
number to just six.  Chicago ninth inning. Cubs starter  
Winner Frank Tanana, 10-14,  Ray Fontenot, 6-10, took the loss.  
pitched a five-hitter for seven in­ Dawson followed his 19th homer,  
nings for the victory. Randy O'Neal  a two-run shot in the first inning,  
gave up the Yankees' only run in the  with a a three-run blast that started  
eighth on Don Mattingly's 30th  the Expos' big inning. Butera also  
homer.  drove in two runs with a bases­ 
Niekro, 15-12, lost 5-2 in his last  loaded single, Webster hit a two-run  
start six days ago in Detroit, and  double, Dawson hit another three­ 
missed his first try at No. 300 on  run homer and Wallach hit a two­ 
three unearned runs in a 3-2 loss to  run homer in the inning. 
Toronto.  

All you have to do is sign up... 
to get involved in the fast-paced excitement of newspaper production. Positions are available on any day of the week-
If you have worked for The New York Times or have never even read a newspaper you are encouraged to apply at the Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
The Obse~Wr 

play." "There's no burning desire to get back into the NFL," continued Lut­her. "but if a player had a choice of playing in the same situation, I don't know why he wouldn't choose the NFL." 
The Bulls have already let Keith Millard out ofhis contract to play for Minnesota and let Mike Rozier go to Houston in the NFL. 
"I think a lot ofpeople are getting panic-stricken in Jacksonville," said Bullard. "Look at who we've gotten rid of. Keith Millard didn't perform up to the level of the money he was making. I'll be damned ifI was going to pay what Mike Rozier wanted. And we don't need two high-priced quarterbacks." 
"We have plenty of time to rebuild a team. All we're trying to do is clean up our act," said Bullard. 
Indianapolis Colts running back Curtis Dickey may soon be taking hand-offs from a new signal caller ~fa NFL-USFL deal goes through that would 

Dennis Johnson gets contract 
Aallociated Press 
BOSTON -Free agent guard Den­nis Johnson, who met with officials of the Indiana Pacers last week, re­signed yesterday with the Boston Celtics. 

Details of the multi-year contract were not revealed, although reports had indicated he would be one of the top three paid guards in the Na-
Standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

EM!  
w  L  Pet.  Gil  
St. Louis  95  56  .629  "With all our talent and power we  
New York  92  59  .609  3 have the potential to beat any team 
Montreal  79  72  .523  16  
Philadelphia  71  78  .4n  23 on our schedule and I hope this will  
Chicago  70  80  .467  24.5 be true for the upcoming games." 
Pittaburgh  51  98  .342  43  
WMI  Suth also felt that the return of  
Los Angeles  89  62  .589  sophomore setter Colleen Mergens  
Cincinnati  82  67  .550  6  
Houston  77  74  .510  12 to the lineup aided the team in vic­ 
San Diego  76  75  .503  13 tory. Mergens had been sidelined  
Adanta  61  89  .407  27.5 over the weekend with an injured 
San Francisco  59  92  .391  30  

YM!erdlly'allaaulta 
Montreal17, Chicago 15 New York 7, Philadelphia t Cincinnati 7, Adanta 5 St. Louis 5, Pittaburgh 4 Loa Angelea 7, Houston 2 San Diego4, San Franciaco3 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Eat 
w L Pet. GB Toronto 95 55 .633 New York 88 62 .587 7 Baltimore 79 69 .S34 15 Detroit 79 72 .523 16.5 
Beeton 75 76 .497 20.5 Milwaukee 65 84 .436 29.5 Cleveland 54 98 .355 42 WMI 
California 85 65 .567 KanaaaCity 84 65 .564 0.5 Chicago 77 72 .517 7.5 oakland 73 77 .487 12 Seattle 70 80 .467 15 Minnesota 69 82 .457 16.5 Texas 57 93 .380 28 
YM!erdlly'allaaulta 
Toronto 6, Beeton 2 Detroit 9, New York t Texas 5, Minnesota 0 Baltimore at Milwaukee, late Chicago at California, late Kanaaa City at Seattle, late Cleveland at oakland,late 
Thanks to you... • it works ... for ALL OF US .....,....,_, 

tional Basketball Association. 
Johnson, 31, went to Indianapolis last Thursday and took a physical ex­amination. But he did not sign an of­fer sheet with the Pacers. 
His trip came one week after the Celtics announced on Sept. 12 that they had signed Indiana guard Jerry Sichting, also a free agent, to an offer sheet. 
SMC 
continuedfrom page 16 
ankle. 

The third match of the evening found the home team defeating Grace College in two games, 15-3 
The Observer is now accepting applications for 
Assistant Production Manager 
This is a salaried position and duties include: 
Supervising the Accentand Viewpoint layout staffs Coordinating layout of the Irish Extra Assisting in special design projects 
For more information contact John Mennell at The Obser­ver, 239-5303, by midnight Wednesday September 25. 
Do you like to stay on top of things? 
Know what's going on by being 
·=Obse~ Liaison 
For the Student Activities Board Call Meegan at 239-7605 for more info 
"I'm tired of being a Celtics' farm club," said Indiana General Manager Bob Salyers, who suggested that the Pacers might retaliate with an offer sheet toJohnson. 
Johnson, who has spent the last two ofhis nine NBA seasons with the Celtics, i~ coming off an outstanding campaign in which he averaged 1 5.7 points, 6.8 assists and 4 rebounds per game. 
and 1-6-14. (In the second match, Tri-State defeated Grace in two games.) In game one, Tekulve and Mergens led in serves, while Reidy set the pace for the team in spikes and blocks. In match two, Feldman had six serves and 5 spikes. Felman and Reidytied in serve returns with four each. 
Head Coach Mary Jo _Lambert was 
impressed with her team's perfor­
mance last night. 
"We played with a little more con­sistency and adapted well to the speed of the other teams," said Lam­bert. 

-------------, 
T0 day_____________________
w_e_d_n_e_s_d_a_y_,s_e_p_t_e_m_b_e_r_2_5_,_1_9_s_s_-..P._a..g._e_1_5 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Larson 
© 1985 Untversal Press Synd1cate 
aJ YOIJ ReAUY ~f'6CT 
fiN fiJGU Wl/5 801?1'1 10 

M6 10 1/CCEff 1!16 FIICT 
SOI/I? THE 5KI&S... II 8</ffi/W 

1lfffT I f(f!V~ 10 Sfftl/7 
!JeC/11/6~ 
Wl/5 80KN 10 1?01/M ~f'IMff?fE... 

WHY NOT IT'S j(J
1116Ke5TOFMY 
SO WHAT, FOf( (;;(XJPN65S SfiKf. 

II f'eN&IJIN 'l {71/f(fVf{?
UF6 1/:i II fENf7f/IN 1 
15 MY Pl/1?6 ANP NIIT7/I?flf.. 


Zeto 
ACROSS 1 Handles clumsily 5 Flowers for 
short 1 0 Zola title 14 "Dies-" 15 Dud 16 Bakery worker 17 "-creature 
was..." 18 Religious sect 
In Iowa 19 Measure 20 Holy 22 Chick's 
birthplace 24 Like nails 25 Shack 26 Ranch denizens 28 Signs ol­33 Wedding words 34 Come alter 36 Org. of the 
East 37 Noisy quarrels 39 Glacial ice 41 Hexagram 42 Where Canea Is 44 Monsters of 
the Mohave 46 Nos. man 47 Act otventl· 
latlng 49 Washes 51 Zodiac sign 52 Tiny amount 53 Receptacle lor 
odds and ends 58 Tell 61 Jacob's wife 62 Dolt 64-out 
(supplements) 65 A Johnson 66 T.S. or George 67 Campus VIP 68 Pair 69 Smooths down 70 Shield part 
DOWN 1 Pegs 2 Copper town 
In Venezuela 3 Lookout 4 Old pirate 
WI5HY­
Pl/f?f()S6 IN Uff! ?

WIISHY... 
J 

'w'HE"N EVE'R ~E'RES A l-IM I TEl> AMQUIIIT OF AJIJWING ON TIE MAAKET ITS VAWE 
~OCKE"T'S"! TH& 
S ~.'15 SHOE"S Wll..L SOON BE IN &LASS CAS£5 Nt:XT TO THE MIN15 V~E'5. 
©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
5 Raises one's 
spirits 6 Moon vehicle 7 House servant 
In India 8 Flamenco lady 9 Scythe handle 
10 Bedwear 11 City In lsr. 12 Close 13 Military 
branch 21 AGardner 23 Slices 26 About 27 Revere 28 Commune on 
the Po 29 Patchup 30 Arranger of 

54 Nest on higha kind 
55 So long31 Public 
56 Actress storehouse Greenland Albright
32 Wading birds 45 Overindulge 57 Butcher's cut 35 Lily type 
48 Likenesses 59 Shade ol blue 38 Like some 50 Port In Ohio 60 Worker ol yorecollars 53 Wearing 63 Turf 

The Observer is now accepting applications for 
Assistant Systems Manager 
This is a salaried position and responsibilities include: 
• 
Supervise operation of16-user Alpba Micro computer system. 

• 
Routine software and hardware maintenance. 

• 
Oversee operation ofUnotron 10 I phototypesetter. 

• 
Monitor and coordinate typesetting staffand schedule. 


w For more information or an application, contact MarkJohnson at The Observer, 239·5303. 
• • • Applications due by Friday, October 4. • • • 
Kevin Walsh 


"MaHhews ... we're geHing another one of those strange 'ow blah es span yol' sounds." 
Campus 
•6:
1; P.M. -General Meeting, Center for So­cial Concerns, Sponsored by Circle K 

•6:30 
P.M.-Meeting, Memorial Library, room 600, Sponsored by the Cross Examination Debate Association 

•7:00 
P.M. -Reception%Presentation, Peterson and Company, Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Open to all Accountancy and Finance Seniors, MBA's with a concentration in Finance or Accountancy 

•7:00 
P.M.-Wednesday Night FUm Series, "The Wild Bunch," Loft 

•7:00, 
9:00 and 11:00 P.M. -SAB FUm, "Brian's Song," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1.00 

•7:00 
P.M. -9:00 P.M. -Meeting, AISEC 



marketing training sessiori, LeMans tower room, Sponsored by AISEC, Mandatory for those interested in marketing 
•7:00 
P.M.-10:00 P.M.-Lecture, Mr. and Mrs. Tim Fulnecky, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by University Ministry ~d Natural Family Planning Program 

•7:30 
P.M.-Introductory Meeting, Spiritual Rock, Little Theater, LaFortune Student Center, All those who signed up activities night and any newcomers are welcome 

•8:00 
P.M. -Meeting, Future Goals of the US Space Program, New Orleans Room, LaFortune Student Center, Sponsored by Notre Dame L-5 Society 

•8:00 
P.M. -11:00 P.M. -SAB Coffee House, "That's Entertainment", Haggar College Center, Chamelon Room, 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Spaghetti & Shells with Meat Sauce Broiled Haddock Hot Open Face Cheese Sub 

TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 
8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 16 MASH 22 Three's Company 16 Highway To Heaven 22 Stir Crazy 28 The Insiders 16 Hell Town 22 Charlie and Company 28 Dynasty 34 On Stage at Wolftrap 22 George Burns' Comedy 46 Renewed Mind 16 St. Elsewhere 22 The Equalizer 28 Hotel 34 Milkwood 
46 LeseaAlive 
Hey Mate! 

JDbe-~-needsyou.The news department Is accepting applications for 
CopyEditor-


For more Information contact Frank Llpo at 239-5313 or stop In at The Observer office. Deadline for applications is 5 p.m. Wednesday. 
Saint Mary's Philadelphia Steak Sandwich Spaghetti with Meat Sauce Spaghetti with Marinara Sauce Spinach and Cheese Casserole Chinese Pepper Pork 
10:00 P.M. 
10:30P.M. 
11:00 P.M. 
11:30P.M. 
12:30A.M. 1:00A.M. 2:00A.M. 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
46 Calvary Temple 
16 Tonight Show 
22 CBS Late Movie: New Avengen 
28 ABC News Nightllne 
34 Potters At Work 
46 Everlasting Gospel 
28 Eye on Hollywood 
34  Film  Du  Jour:  "My  Favorite  
Brunette"  
46  Praise the Lord  
16  Late Night with  David Letter­ 
man  
16  All in the Family  
22  Nightwatch  

46 Independent Network News 
Learn the facts about cancer. 
And make not knowing the risks, one less risk. 

How you live may save your life. 


Wednesday, September 25, 1985-page 16
S~orts 
Interhall football slate opens; upsets and defense do01inate 
By FRANK HUEMMER upset of a perennially tough Dillon In the Leahy Division, last year's Sports Writer squad. Keenan won their match as interhall championship football team captain Rick Bliha raced 102 team -Stanford -was upset in the Call it a chance to fulfill one's yards with an interception return to closing minutes by an 8-7 score. dreams and goals. provide the margin ofvictory. Holy Cross pulled off the victory as 
Interhall football allows many "I am sure the enthusiasm we Rich Brendza hauled in a touch­tough competitors the opportunity showed Sunday against Dillon will down with 1 7 seconds remaining in to put on their equipment and battle carry over to our game with Morris­the contest. Then, Bryan Samuels it out on a campus were many sey," said Bliha. "The entire team is scored on the two-point conversion legends have shown their stuff in looking forward to playing once attempt. one of the oldest football traditions again this week." "Our game proved that a game is in the country. Often,it is the last op­Another team which will be heard never over until the final whistle portunity for players to supply a from is Grace as evidenced by their blows," exclaimed Holy Cross cap­crunching blow, to make a game­hard-fought, 2-0 victory over Flan­tain Chris Ryan. "We played with a saving tackle, or to loft a winning ner. The two-point safety resulted lot ofheart and our strong individual touchdown spiral. As interhall foot­after Tom Doyle blocked a punt efforts allowed us to pull out the vic­ball action got underway on Sunday, deep in Flanner territory. tory. This week's game with Alumni there were already many surprises, "We'll be building from this game will be a real battle." and the five-team divisions seem to as we try to get momentum to battle This sets up an interesting con­be up for grabs. Morrissey in a few weeks," said frontation Sunday at 2 p.m. on North 
In the Parseghian Division, Mor­Grace captain Ed Boureman. "With Stepan Field as Holy Cross will rissey appears to be in fine form after the way we finished last year and the tangle with a tough Alumni team. On rolling over Off-Campus, 19-0, as way we played last week we have an Sunday, Alumni struggled with John Mundo scored three touch­opportunity to go 4-1 or 5-0." Cavanaugh and emerged as the vic­downs. Sunday, however, they will This Sunday, Grace will battle Off­tor with a 7-0 shutout. meet another undefeated team in Campus at North Stepan at 4 p.m. "We are confident and have a lot Keenan on North Stepan Field at 2 while Flanner entertains Dillon at 
see INTERHALL, page 12 

p.m. Keenan will be fresh from a 7-0 South Stepan at 3 p.m. 
SMC volleyball team wins two, improves season record to 4-10 
ByJILL SARBENOFF had eight serves. Freshman Margaret victory. Feldman also returned six Sports writer Feldman of Naperville, Ill., led the serves. team with six spikes, while junior Suth was optimistic about the The Saint Mary's volleyball team Mary Reidy from Lake Bluff, Ill., team's play in their home opener. improved its record to 4-10 by returned four serves for points. "I can tell we're working better as defeating Tri-State University and 
a team," said the outside hitter. "Our Grace College last night at the An­In the second game, it was sop­communication is improving. We gela Athletic Facility. homore Moira Cronan from Over­were really up for these games since The Belles won the first match land Park, Kan., who led the serving they were our first conference 
against Tri-State in two games, 16-14 department with eight serves, in­matches. It was also nice to be and 1 5-13. The leading server in cluding one ace. Freshman Tami playing at home. game number one was Kara Tekulve. Suth of South Bend and Feldman see SMC, page 14 
The sophomore, from Indianapolis, both contributed four spikes in the 
\ 
Taylor looks forward to a more -~ important role for Irish in '85 
By GREG STOHR abilities (a 405-pound bench-press fully recover, says Irish running back Sports Writer and 4.6 speed in the 40-yard dash), coach Mal Moore. however, Taylor seems drstined for "He's lost a lot ofspeed and quick­
Pernell Taylor isn't used to being a bigger things. ness," explained Moore, "but he's third string football player. At Bis­"I guess I'm a little upset, but I see steadily gaining it back." hop Amat High School in LaPuente, why I'm third string," says Taylor. "I Taylor agrees that he is not yet at California, Taylor starred at running haven't had any game experience. I full strength. back and at linebacker. He gained haven't had a chance to get the "I guess I'm about 95 percent," 3,205 yards rushing and scored 36 coaches' faith." said Taylor. touchdowns during his prep career. Taylor has no game experience Though Taylor has only carried 
Now, however, the 5-11, 216-because he missed both the 1983 the ball twice this season, gaining II pound junior must wait in line for and 1984 seasons due to tom knee yards, Irish head coach Gerry Faust playing time at fullback on the Notre ligaments suffered on the second hopes he will be able to give the Dame football squad. Taylor is third day offull-pad practice his freshman junior an increased role as the on the Irish depth chart behind sop­year. He now has two long scars on season progresses. homore Frank Starns and senior Tom his right knee as products of the sur­"We hope he can contribute a Monahan. gery, which required 18 months of 
see TAYLOR, page 10 

With outstanding physical rehabilitation. And, he has yet to 


There is still hope for couch potatoes 
If you're like me, you probably feel that you have too much work to do and that you get too little sleep. You make it through life only by ingesting large quantities of caffeinated beverages. The last thing you need is any ex­ercise more strenuous than turning on the television. 
On the other hand, you remember the good old days of your youth, when you could do all that you do now and more with out growing tired. You were in good shape. You were physically fit. 
Or maybe you're not like me ("Thank God!" you're saying to yourself). You have been a couch potato all of your life. The very word "exercise" makes you break out in a nasty sweat and sends you running to the fridge for munchies to calm yourself. You have never been physically fit since your birth. 
Maybe you care that you are out ofshape now or maybe you do not care. But if you're like me, you lack the motiva­tion to do anything about it, anyway. 
So what are we to do with ourselves? If we want to be real masochists, we can take up jogging around the lakes. 
Phil Wolf 
. Assistant Sports Editor 


But we know that won't last long once the mercury dips below 60. Besides, being the social creatures that we are, we would get sooo bored out there by ourselves. 
We could always go hang out in the weight room at the Rock, but do we really want to throw ourselves into that mass ofsweaty bodies? Are you kidding; and get all slimey? 
We need help. We need things to do to keep our bodies in shape. And I know what you're thinking, but that's against University Law (look it up in Du Lac: University Rule I.8, page ~6 ). Is there anybody out there who can help us? 
Yes! (there, now don't you feel better already?). 
There is a little office tucked in the Athletic and Con­vocation Center ... now, don't get too excited. I know the ACC is a big, scary-looking building with big, scary-looking jocks living within, but it really is a cool place. And even if you have to stop to catch your breath 11 times on the walk over there, it is worth the trip. 
Anyway, this office I'm talking about ... it's called the NVA office, which stands for Non-Varsity Athletics, which sounds kind ofscary to the average Twinkie addict. But it's not that bad. 
"Oh, sure," you're saying, "the NVA guys are the ones who oversee such sickos as the rowing club members who get up at 4:30 in the morning. And they're the ones respon­sible for giving football pads to all ofthe frustrated ex-high school jocks in our halls so they can beat each other's brains out every week. 
"I'm not going near that place," you're saying. 
But listen, would I be wasting all ofthe energy necessary 
see NVA, page 10 




