Discrimination -page 4 

VOL. XIX, NO. 80 

Ariel Sharon, right, leaves Federal Court in New York Wednes­the war is terribly important. The day night with an unidentified security guard. A federaljury decid­war is over and we won." ed yesterday that Time magazine did not libel the former Israeli 
"We came in order to prove that Defense Minister, but said several Time employees were careless in Time magazine lied and we manag­organizing the story. ed to prove that they lied," said Sharon of his $50 million lawsuit. 
I 
1 1

Student government election process discussed at meeting 
,I
discussed. taken the wrong way." 
The proposed ban to the public, ,. McDowell is not sure whether or 1 which will include reporters from not a future Judicial Council The Observer if enacted, is to en­meeting will have to be closed. sure that council members will be "I haven't made a definite deci­able to discuss issues freely. sion about whether to close it or 
"I'm not criticizing The not," he said. "A reporter may be Observer," said McDowell. "I want able to stay and report it, but we all the council members to be able would have to look over what the to discuss the key issues intelligent­reporter had written to make sure ly and openly without havif!g to nothing is written or taken out of worry about their statements being context." 
Information theft named as motive for break-in 

By BOB MUSSELMAN 
StaffReporter 
A weekend intruder in the Student Government offices apparently ''was looking for some kind of information," according to Student Body President Rob Bertino. 
Bertino, however, does "not want to speculate" about the kind of information which was stolen or the motive for its theft. He did say no materials appear to be missing, further indicating information theft as the break-in's goal. 
Student Body Vice President Cathy David noticed Monday that someone had tampered with papers left locked in her office over the weekend. 
"Some stuff was misplaced," she said, adding that the materials consisted of "things not meant to be seen by everyone." 
Also Monday, secretary Margaret Linhart found several files in her locked drawer in disarray, notably the Student Senate file and the file about David. 
Linhart said the materials in the files were not sensitive or con­fidential. They merely contained records of projects and other infor­mation she would give to anyone who asked for it. 
"Nothing I can say is missing," she said. Bertino said there was no indication of intrusion in his office. Security Director Glenn Terry said his department received "a 
report of somebody being in [the Student Government offices]," but 
"there doesn't seem to be anything taken." 
He said there are no leads or suspects in the case, but did mention the absence of evidence of forced entry indicates the work of an in­sider. 

I 
Both Bertino and David said many "legitimate" people have keys 

1 
1
to the door and drawers which were opened. 

j 

By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
News Staff 
The procedure for the upcoming student government elections was discussed by Maher Mouasher, Ombudsman election officer, at last night's sparsely attended Judicial Council meeting. 
Coordinator Tim McDowell an­nounced the possibility of an up­coming meeting being closed to all. 
Though only 12 of the 24 com­missioners were present, Mouasher told the council each dorm's com­missioner would be responsible for manning the ballot boxes during 

By EILEEN HOFFMANN 
News Staff 
When was the last time you thought about hunger, other than when you slept through dinner? 
The World Hunger Coalition wants students to consider world 

To our readers 
People often ask us what we do if our computer typesetting system goes out. Well, the first thing we do is cut certain sec­tions, such as Viewpoint and Accent. Some other features, such as The Daily Crossword, get cut. Also, some classified advertising may not appear on schedule. 
Our systems experts say that things should be normal by Monday's issue. We hope so. 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 25,1985 
the inJcpcndcnt ~tudcnt Ill'\\ -.paper .~en ing 110tn dame ;md ~aint mary·~ 



Federal jury finds Time magazine did not libel Ariel Sharon in article 
the Feb. 12 election will be to elect all times. Ombudsman will also the student government president, have spot checks with "people vice-president, and senate. The walking around posing as potential March5 election will elect class of­voters who do not have their I D's:• ficers and an off-campus commis­Voter fraud has not been a pro­sioner. blem in recent elections but 
Stressing an election free of Mouasher doesn't want to take any mistakes and fraud, Mouasher chances. discussed ways of preventing such ''We want to be sure that we have infractions as ballot-box stuffing no objections from anyone," said and campaigning by the candidates Mouasher. "We want (this election) on election day. to be as airtight as possible." 
According to Mauasher, such Tim McDowell, presiding over methods for preventing fraud the first Judicial Council meeting would include the use of student of the spring semester, told the ID's, procedure sheets, computer council members a future meeting listing Sf students, and at least two might be dosed to the public due to people watching the ballot boxes at the sensitivity of the issues to be 

World Hunger Coalition continues Wednesday Fast in second semester 
hunger issues, and as the new semester starts, it is once again beginning its efforts to alert students to these issues. 
According to senior Mark Storen, head of the World Hunger Coalition at Notre Dame, each stu­dent will receive a personal letter with information about the fast. In addition, a sign-up sheet will be posted in each dorm. 
Off-campus residents will be able to sign up for the fast in the Center for Social Concerns. 
For every lunch abstained from by students, one dollar will be donated by the dining hall toward the World Hunger Coalition. The funds collected will go to projects in foreign areas such as India, Africa and South America. Last year, $19,000 was raised and even more is expected this year, said Storen. 
Other activites for this semester include a retreat in Michigan, a Wednesday reflection group during 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A federal jury decided yesterday that Time magazine did not libel former Israeli Defense Minister Ariel Sharon when it linked him to a massacre of Palestinians, but is said some Time employees were careless in putting together the story. 
The six-person jury decided that Time did not show "actual malice" in publishing a disputed paragraph, which it earlier found to be both defamatory and false. For "actual malice," it would have had to be proven Time published the paragraph knowing it was false or with "reckless disregard" of whether it was true or false. 
Both sides claimed victory . 
"A lawsuit is very much like a war," said Time attorney Thomas Barr. "Who wins the battle is not
.,j 
particularly important. Who wins
APPboto 
lunch and work once a month at St. Augustine's Soup Kitchen. 
An effort is being made this semester to begin a network of world hunger groups among dif­ferent universities throughout the country. A brochure containing in­formation about the coalition's ac­tivities will be circulated to dif­

• ferent schools in the United States. 
Recruiting will be done on cam­pus for CROP, a church work ser­vice organization. On April 15, a 10-kilometer run will be sponsored at Notre Dame to benefit CROP. Profit from the run will be distributed among different relief organizations as well as among South Bend groups. At Saint Mary's, the group also will be sponsoring a Wednesday and a Lenten fast, according to senior Colleen Flynn, head of the Saint Mary's World Hunger Coalition. Money from these events will be distributed among such groups as Bread for the World and Oxfam. 
Sharon claimed a Feb. 21, 1983, Time cover story libeled him in reporting he "discussed" revenge for the assassination of Lebanon's president-elect, Bashir Gemayel ­who headed the Phalangists -one day before the Christian militiamen massacred hundreds of Palestinians at two refugee camps in Israeli­occupied West Beirut. 
After announcing the verdict, the jury foreman, Richard Peter Zug, read a statement in which the jurors said certain Time employees, especially Jerusalem corresondent David Halevy, acted "negligently and carelessly in reporting and veri­fying the information which ultimately found its way" into the disputed paragraph. 
The jurors were taken from the courtroom shortly after the verdict and were not immediately availavle for comment. 
Halevy, 43, a native Israeli who testified at the trial, was not pre­sent. 
Yesterday's verdict was crucial because although the jury, which had been deliberating since Jan. 14, had found for Sharon on the two earlier points, he also had to show malice and damage to his reputa­tion to prove libel. 
If the jury had found "actual malice," a mini-trial would have been held to determine if Sharon's reputation was injured by the arti­cle and how much in damages he should be paid. 
"We're most pleased with the ver­dict," said Ray Cave, Time's editor­in-chief. "I'm not totally happy with the jury's earlier findings on defamation and on falsity because with all due respect to the jury ... I believe that they were wrong about defamation and the falsity. 
"We believe that our story was substantially true, but the impor­tant thing is that Mr. Sharon was not able to defeat us in an American court for his own pur­poses," he said. "The important thing is that Time won this case." 
In a written statement, the magazine said, "Time feels strongly that the case should never have reached an American courtroom. It was brought by a foreign politician attempting to recoup his political fortunes." 
see LIBEL, page 4 

1 
i 
I 
r 
, 
r I r 
i 
r 
r 
r I 
I 
The Observer 

In Brief 
President Reagan and his 6-year oldgrand­

son "really had a ball" building a snowman on the White House lawn over the weekend, Michael Reagan says. Michael was a guest in the White House for Reagan's inaugural celebrations, along with his wife Colleen, daughter Ashley, 20 months, and Cameron. Michael, who had complained of not being invited to the White House, was pleased at how well things went between his father and his son, Cameron, the New York Daily News reported yesterday. "Dad called me in my room and asked if he could take Cameron into the garden. They spent about half an hour building the snowman," Michael said. "They really had a ball." 
-AP 
Three professional basketball players announced plans yesterday in New York to raise money for starv­ing Ethiopians. "We do feel we can make a difference," Bernard King of the New York Knicks said at a news conference with fellow Knick Ernie Grunfeld, Quinn Buckner of the Boston Celtics, Na­tional Basketball Association Commissioner David Stern, and Mayor of New York City Ed Koch. They said players in the Feb. 10 NBA All-Star game in Indianapolis would contribute their pay, totaling about $50,000, and the league would match their contribu­
tion, raising the total to $100,000.-AP 

VVeather 
Another arctic front is expected to plunge into Indiana early today pushing afternoon temperatures to five degrees. The temperature tonight will be between 5 below zero and 5 above, with snow possible. It will be sunny tomorrow with highs from the upper teens to mid 20s. -AP 
The Observer-
The Observer (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home f<x>thall Salurdays. excepl during exam and vacaUon periods. The Obsenrer is published by the students of the Univel'>ity of Notre L>ame and Saint Mary's College. Surn.criptions may be purt·hascd for $30 per year ( S.ZO per>;<:· mcster) by writing The Obsenrer, P.O. Hox Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
The Obsenrer is a member of The 
Associated Pres.•. All reproduction 
righ" are re,.,rved. 
· 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ...... Maureen Murphy Design Assistant .... Matt Gracianette Layout Staff ..... David Kazzrorwski Typists ..................... Lots News Editor .......... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor........... Jane Kravcik Sports Copy Editor ........ Phil Wolf Viewpoint ................ Monday Accenl .................. Monday ND Day Editor ........ Mark Winters SMC Day Editor ........... Roberta Photographer .......... Vic Guarino Typesetter ................. R.I.P. 



ANY NIGHTS A GREAT NIGHT AT ABILENE'S 
\  
&aNDAY ALL YOU CAN EAT COUNTRYFRJEDCHICKEN MASHED POTATOES & COLE SLAW  $4.50  
MONDAY ALL YOU CAN EAT CHILI SPAGHETTI TEXAS TOAST  $3.25  
WEDNESDAY  
ALL YOU CAN EAT BBQ BEEF RIBS FRENCH FRIES & COLE SLAW  $4.95  
THURSDAY BURGER r-.JGHT BURGER FRENCH FRIES & SUNDAE  $4.2 5  
FRIDAY  



-----------..­

Friday, January 25, 1985 -page 2 
Bowling for Domers 
Many years ago, there was an all-campus event 
which may have rivaled the current Bookstore Basket­
ball Tournament in popularity, at least when taking 
the smaller size of the University into account. 
In 1938, Scholastic, then a campus newsmagazine, 
sponsored a bowling tournament on campus, in which 
275 people participated. It was no$ held at Beacon 
Bowl, or some other location far from the campus, 
but rather near the original site of the Bookstore 
Tournament: in the basement of Walsh Hall. 
The Janes are gone now, part of the laundry room, 
mail room, and other rooms. But the former location 
can still be seen on the eastern side of the basement, 
below the main stairwell, where the floor is raised 
several inches. 
According to Professor Thomas Schlereth of the 
American Studies department, who has written a 
walking history of Notre Dame, two lanes were built 
there in 1909. No one seems to have any idea when 
they were taken out of use and partitioned, but all 
agre~ they were gone by 1955. 
The end of Walsh Rec Lanes was not the permanent end of bowling on the Notre Dame campus. Accor­ding to the Scholastic of Oct. 8, 1954, the Hammes Shopping Center, which would open in teh "Badin Bog" in the fall of 1955, would include a 10-lane alley in the basement. The lanes included such modern features as automatic pin setters, which, according to Brother Frank Gorch, cost $10,000 a year to rent. 

In this period, bowling was very popular on cam­pus, if the war stories of alumni are to be believed. Bowling leagues were in action almost every night; many priests on campus, including Father Joe Walter and Father Jerry Knoll enjoyed the activity in their own league, according to Cavanaugh Rector Father Matthew Miceli, who has been around the campus as long as anyone. 
A Notre Dame team participated in an inter­collegiate bowling league from 1938 until at least 1961, when ND edged Loyola for the Midwest Inter­
collegiate Bowling League championship. 
Interest in the sport declined during the sixties, and the final demise of the Hammes Lanes received little if any notice in campus publications. John Moorman, director of maintenance, says they had been dismantl­ed by the time he arrived on campus in 1969; Walter's best guess is that they were taken down in 1967. 
Miceli remembers talking about the issue with University President Father Theodore Hesburgh recently. He says Hesburgh named heavy losses due to Jack of use by the students as the main reason fro the Lanes' decommissioning. The area where they were, under the main section of the bookstore, is used for storage and shipping. 
These Janes will never be restored, although if stu­dent interest were there, it may be possible that a bowling alley could be included in a future student center. A key here is the level of student interest, and 
Tom Mowle 
Assistant News Editor 


how long it would be sustained. The same argument would apply for any other facility built for the student use on campus. The University will not-indeed, could hardly be expected to -keep facilities open in the face of student apathy. 
It seems possible that a major renovation of LaFor­tune could occer within the next few years, but we know the faculty waited 20 years for their building. Nevertheless, this is a good time to suggest student desires. Mike Royko notwithstanding, bowling may not be the most popular pastime on campus. But whatever suggestions are offered, if students do not support the facilities when they are built, they will be shut down. 
The administration's reluctance to build facilities may be tied to the fate of the bowling alley. Hesburgh was here through their entire existence; according to Miceli at least, he still remembers the losses they in­curred through disuse. The administration may be convinced to try experimenting with students' wants again, but if similar results occur, they will not be will­ing to do it a third time. When the current and future student leaders give their ideas to the administration, they must be careful that their ideas are popular with the students. 
•  ,,  (I  (l ()  :  
(I  {I  (I  1  
,, u  
Ir-I:  (I -~.-~~...--­i'­!• 'i' ~,It... ---_,. -·-...... ~ ~ n~,~~~~[~--o  -t ' I  

II c~·n1:;'I•~,'• ·' ·•\ 1 


·------~~:-; 1)' ~· \ r:,J
,....-., I I ,_ .. 
, "' -._I ,,_' ........ 
/" , --,' \,_I 

/ I 00' 
, (.) I 
I ' . I 


----·-· 
... ' '· 
....... .. • 
...._ 
-.,_ 
' 

The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
lfs happening here! Right next to Ft. Lauderdale with six miles of white sandy beach, a boardwalk, lower hotel rates and great places to eat and party. Plus, we're the home of Six Flags Atlantis, World's 
. largest Water Theme Park! 
Send today tor your free 
. color poster of"The Rivals" and also a free copy of our hotel guide. Why not 
spend Spring Break In Hollywood for a change... lfs where rivals revel! 
Fill out the coupon below 
and mall to: 
rl~-=r-:o;=~;;m~7""11 
of Commerce, P.Q Box 23451Hollywood, Florida 33022 1 
I Name I 
I School Name I 
I Add I 
I I
I City I I State/Zip I 
L---------~ 

The Observer 
EPA penalizes waste 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -The Environmental Protection Agency announced yesterday it is seeking the largest toxic waste penalty in its history, $6.8 million, against Chemical Waste Management Inc. of subur­ban Oak Brook, Ill. 
The agency filed a civil ad­ministrative complaint with EPA's regional hearing clerk yesterday, alleging the toxic waste-handler violated federal regulations govern­ing the "use, recordkeeping and marking of PCBs between 1980 and 1983" in storing the material. 
Company officials could not be reached immediately for comment. The penalty is the largest ever sought by the federal government under the Toxic Substances Control Act, said EPA spokeswoman Virginia Donohua. 

HEY I 

If you've been wondering how you could become more involved in this Notre Dame community or doing charity work around the area or just meeting new folks, why not join the KNIGHTS. 
• 
we are the oldest student organization on 

campus(we are celebrating our 75th year at Notre Dame) 

• 
We are the only organization with our own 


building that is open 24 hours to members and there are no parietals. 
• There are many benefits to joining the KNIGHTS if you would like to know more, 
please contact Paul at 234-4511 or Duane at 2054 

THE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 






50% Off Frames 

ChooN any otyle from our entire frame Nllc:tlon including Holston, P1erre Card1n and Yves St. Laurent. Then lake 50% off the regular price. Offer good with this coupon and student/faculty identification when ordering a complete pair of prescriplion glasses only. Broken aiH-replac.d or r-lrect 1t no ella,.• tor -, .., . No other discounts apply 
South Bend: Scottsdale Mall 291-2222 Elkhart: Concord Mall 875-7472 
Offices throupout Indiana ~ Open All Day Saturday and Sunday Mall Hours ~ PROFESSIONAL EYE EXAMINATION AVAILABlE ,..... 
BY OPTOMETRIST WITH OFFICE ON PREMISES ~ 
----------------~ 
Friday, January 25, 1985 -page 3 

W~_A,  \  
Joining Up  
Saint Mary's senior volunteer coordinator  Tracy for  Bringardner, Shelter  for  left, the  

Homeless, talks with South Bend resident Carolyn 

NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS. ROOMATES NEEDED! 
Boys and Girls 
CaD office 3-6 DAILY 234-6647 
THE EARLY~&BIRD... i~  
Classes starting Sun., Jan 27PREPARE FOR:  
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135  


TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
will be in the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn on January 29 starting at 7 pm to discuss career opportunities.at Tl and making the transition to a full­time job. 
Open to Engineering, Math & Business Juniors and Seniors with Computer Science background and interest. 
Reception willfollow 

Saint Mary's is awarded large grant 
6y MARY FRAN GISCH 
News Staff 
The National Endowment for the Humanities has awarded Saint Mary's College a $375,000 challenge grant which will be used for faculty development in the humanities. The grant will fund the College's first chair, for Professor Bruno Schlesinger, the chairman of 
the  Humanistic  Studies  Depart­ 
ment.  
"Because  of  its  uniqueness,  the  

Humanistic Studies Program helped obtain the grant for Saint Mary's," said Anne (eed, assistant vice president for college relations. 
Schlesinger developed the Humanistic Studies Program in 1956. Previously, he taught history and originally wanted to start the program within the history depart­ment. 
The Christian Culture Program emphasizes the unity of culture through an interdisciplinary ap­proach. The undergraduate pro­gram is based on ideas of the late English scholar Christopher Dawson. 
"The program is strong now, but it has been stronger in previous years as well," said Schlesinger. "Originally I was the only full-time professor in the department and now we have two others. Gail Mandell and John Shinners are definite assets to the program." 
Reed said the endowment is an honor for the College. Saint Mary's was one of 46 institutions to receive the award. The NEH based its choices on the institution's ability to plan and administer programs efficiently and to show financial stability, according to Reed. 
"Each dollar the endowment awards Saint Mary's must be mat­ched by three non-federal dollars," said Reed. 
Schlesinger points out the money will be used for all the humanities at Saint Mary's including English, philosophy and modern languages, as well as the Humanistic Studies department. "I want to make that distinction clear that the award is for all the humanities, not just the Humanistic Studies Department," said Schlesinger. 
The Observer /Vic Guarino 

McGuire about her interest in becoming a volunteer. Their discussion was part of last night's Activities Festival sponsored by the Center for 
Social Concerns. 


The Observer 
Friday, January 25, 1985 -page 4 
"I feel that we achieved what it continuedfrom page 1 was that brought us here. I respect
~ 
the American judicial system. It 
Pizza Hut@Delivers a Deal. 
~ Despite the setback, Sharon, 56, was a long struggle but rewarding," now minister of industry and trade, he said. was unbowed after the trial, which "We're very happy with the 
For our friends at Notre Dame. 
began Nov. 13. In a news con­result," said Sharon's attorney, ference on the courthouse steps he Milton Gould. 
r 
~ 
r Pizza Hut® is Rollin' Now! 
r 
r 
r 
r What could be better than tasty 
r 
Hut~ pizza? How about Special r r and special savings! Pizza Hut r rolling now with free delivery-right r r your door. Just call the number below r and enjoy your Pizza Hut!; pizza along 
with the special savings. r1 Delivery Area 
Offer &ood __...... 
HOURS: 

Mon.·Thurs. 5-10 
Friday and Saturday -4.-oo pm . 2:00 am
Fri. thru Sun. 4-1_ p.m. 


~ ~ -<i.~·
thru Thursday -4:00pm -12:00 M 
33 --­
-=---Ci~~ \. 
MisHIIW~'"-"' 
-
Limited Delivery Area Drivers carry no more than $20 
JACKSONRD 

MID-WINTER SPECIALS."-Free Delivery Call: 232·2499
Dinners Under 56.00 -­
No Coupons Necessary 
r---------------~------------, 


Reg. A 6-Topping Supreme Combination FILET ___________________ 57.95 Pizza for a 1-Topping Price! 
-·STUFFED FILET _________ ss.95 Get a Pizza Hut' 6-topping Supreme in ~ (wrapped in bacon and stuffed w/mushrooms) any size for the price of a 1-topping 
pizza in the same size.

LAKE PERCH ___________ "7.95 $5.95 
Please ment1on coupon when ordering. One coupon per party per deltvery at participating Pizza Hut· Special
RAINBOW TROUT _____ 56.95 $5.25 Delivery'"' units. Not valid for dine-in or carry-out, or m combination with any other Pizza Hut· offer Limited Oelivqry Area. Our drivers carry no more than
B.B.Q. HALF CHICKEN_ 55.75 $5.25 
$20. Offer good only on regular menu prices through 
Coupon Expires Febuary 8, 1985
fa(h entree includes a bottomless tureen of homemade soup, b.1ked bre.Id, and butter, plus your choice of __ Cash value 1120'. 1985 P1zza Hut, Inc. baked potato, home fries or rice mason. -~
J"' 
--~-· 
_(!ff<'r nnt ~-.1/id with .1m other .ldvt•rli~cd ~pcciJ/s or c •uP'U"-'·~--_,_.-.., r--------,~ hpire' h•hru.uy 16, 1983 

r­
r 
r 
r 
r noted his earlier victories on the 
r 
falsity and defamation issues. 
r 
Libel 
Discrimination charged against managers 
Associated Press 

for  the  study,  asked  apartment  ments  which  persist  in  
SOUTH BEND, Ind.  -The city  managers and owners for rental in­ discriminating against black renters  
Human  Rights  Commission  will  formation. The testers visited sites  for  further  testing  and  possible  
pursue legal action against apart­ within a  few hours of each other  legal action.  
ment  owners  and  managers  who  and gave similar information about  "We have given everybody in the  
practice  racial  discrimination  in  tehmselves.  city of South Bend warning that the  
renting, a commission official said  Some  testers  were  given  con­ South  Bend  Human  Rights  com­ 
yesterday.  tradicting  information  about  mission exists," he said.  
"We know where the discrimina­ waiting  lists  and  apartment  The  report  was  written  by  
tion exists," commission Chairman  availability  in  a  manner  that  Richard  Lamanna,  professor  of  
Edward Levy said. "We have the•  discriminated  against  blacks,  the  sociology at the University of Notre  
names  and you  can  believe we're  report  said.  The  report  did  not  Dame, and Timothy Kenny, a con­ 
going back."  identify the apartments visited dur­ sultant to the Human Rights Com­ 
His  comments  followed  the  ing the study.  mission.  
release of a commission report that  Levy said  the commission  will  "This is  not  a trivial problem,"  
said at least eight of 18 area apart­ use  the  report  to  identify apart- Lamanna said.  
ment  complexes  practice  recial  
discrimination in renting.  
The report contains the conclu­ 
sions of an  eight-month study in  
which blacks and whites, working  

TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
CaD Chris at: 
234-8997 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 

Test-N-Tape Library 
Reinforcement Test 
Homestudy Packet 
Classes starting Sun., Jan. 27 
I 

1117 E. South Bend Ave. 
The Observer Friday, January 25, 1985 -page 5 
The Obsen•er Notre Dan,: office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts Classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center. accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. either in person or by mail. Charge is 10 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters er dav. 
NOTICES 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING JACKIE BOGGS 684-8793 
NEED TYPING, CALL DOLORES 277· 6045 PICK UP AND DELIVERY 
ATTENTION DANCERS. Open auditions lor new student company are Sunday at 
7:30 PM in Reg1na Studio. All styles and techniques are wetcome. No experience necessary!!! 
The New York nmes! It's not too late to order the New York Times for campus delivery. The New York Times,lhe world's greatersl newspaper will be delivered to your room. office, carroll. department, mailbox or any other place on campus at 30/ off the newstaand price. Contact George Devenny at 145 Stanford 283­2094. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS appli­cation deadline is February 1. More info at Center for Social Concerns! 
NDISMC leaders-Specialty Sound has arrived with COMPLETE SOUND SYSTEMS and LIGHT SHOWS. Now booking through the end of the sem. CALL MATT at ND3368 now for details or to book. 
Student Activities Bo<!rd, "The Leader in Entertainment" presents Spring Break in Ft. lauderdale & Daytona Beach. Have the greatest time with the best attention. We feature White Sox baseball. snorkl· lng, St. Patrick's Day parties and an Alumni Association that just won't quit. Call the Student Activities Board at 239-7757 for more informa­tion. 
Abiogenesis Dance Collective presents a new, exciting dance com· pany on campus: Motion. Company Auditions: Sun Jan. 27 at 7:30 in Regina Hall Dance Studio (SMC) No experience necessary. Come dressed to dance. 
LOST/FOUND I 
Losi·N':o................................................ RUGBY LETTER JACKET 
BLUE AND BLACK WITH NAME 01\ INSIDE POCKET. MISPLACED Al BRIDGETT'S TUESDAY EVENING OR EARLY WEDNESDAY MORNING PLEASE RETURN , NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CALL J.R. REID AT 277-7561. 
........................................... 
LOST: One tear-shaped gold earring be­tween lewis and the Credit Union... I' found please call Anne 2624 
LOST: TAN LUGGAGE BAG with blue straps: may have been left outside Regina Hall;contains mostly sweaters and jeans: if found please call 283-2545. 
LOST: Bright GREEN scarf in Cam­pus View parking lot or there abouts late Friday night. The bag lady coat will not be the same without it. If found please call Nancy at 3719. 
LOST: Burberry's scarf lost at Senior Bar lunch 1117. If found please call 1079. Has great sentimental value. 
LOST: Set of keys on "Sobering Ad· vice" key chain. If found please call 1079. 
LOST: Blue ND bag. Contains 2 Sharp calculators (scientific and solar), pen­cils and pens. Lost probably in Dining Halls, Galvin, or Stepan Chern. on December 21. Prove me wrong that NO students are thieves and return to NO Lost and Found or Call Tom at 1524 after 10 am MWF or after 2:30 on weekends. 
FOUND: Grey, cream. and brown striped scarf near St. Ed's. Check Lost and Found in Ad. Building. 
LOST: A pair of NIKES (Mid-tops) Basketball shoes. White with blue and red stripes. last seen at the mens lockerroom at the Rock. If found please call Cliff at 1436. 
LOST: Jan. 15 Blue wallet wl GA Driver's license, military i.D. and other valuables In or around Corby's & Bridget's. Need desperately! Call Kerry McMonigle, SMC 4322 
.__I_FO_R_R_EN_T_____. 
WANTED · Female housemate lor a 4· bedroom home located 1 0 minutes from campus. $150 per month includes utilities. 239-5930 or 291-9644 
FOR SALE 
Electric Typewriters Smith-Corona Coronet Super 12. like new at half the cost. $90 call 283· 4278. 
Need two GAs for Syracuse Game. Call 2073. 
HELP! Need 2 or 4 Syracuse-NO basketball tix. Please call284-5011! 
Need 1 Syracuse stu orGA call1710 
BIG BUCKS need 4 Syracuse stud tix call Mark 1204. 
TICKETS 
NEED SYRACUSE BASKETBALL TICK­ETS DESPRATEL Y!!!! PLEASE CALL 277-8497 
NEED 6 Syracuse GA's. Call Steve 1163 
NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR SYRACUSE GAME. CALL at 2073. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 3 SYRACUSE GA'S. WILL PAY GOOD MONEY. CALL MARY BETH AT 3723. 
HELP! Need 2 NO-Syracuse tix. Gall 1570. 
NEEDED 3 DAYTON TX. CALL 277-8577 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR SYRACUSE GAME CALL LAURIE 1256 
I need GA'eend 1etudenttlcketlorthe February 9 Sy111cuee geme! PINeo call Sueet2914. 
PERSONALS 
BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY McCANDLESS HAll SAT. JAN.26, 9­2AM BEACH PARTY 
SAVE MONEY!! PURCHASE YOUR TEXTS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 SOUTH BEND AVE.,NEXT TO CORBY'S BAR. 233-2342. 
......................................... ................
~ 
ASPENII!ASPEN!!!ASPEN!!! 
SPRING BREAK '85 
CALL MIKE AT 283-3573 OR LARRY AT 
283-3630 FOR INFO. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $20-200 1 percent Interest 30 Days Basement LaFortune 11:30-12:30 M-F 
SPRING BREAK IS COMING........ ARE YOU READY?! AVOID THE RUSH AND PLAN NOW FOR A WONDERFUL WEEK IN STEAMBOAT SPRINGS, COLORADO ... S. PADRE 15­LAND....CORPUS CH}IISTI...OR, DAYTONA BEACH! PLENTY OF REASONABLE PACKAGES ARE WAITING. CALL RENE FOR MORE INFO. AT 1190. 
So Baker, did you ever remember what she looked like??? 
Yo Flo &B.O.: O.C. is the placetobenext year. 
Hey Christy S., welcome back to the tundra. When does the permafrost thaw? 
WANTED: Chicks to drive us everywhere. Must be 21 and love beer. Call Robert X. Planet4115. 
For the greatest time, go with the Stu· dent Activities Board to Daytona and Ft. Lauderdale for spring break. The sun will be fun and the heat will be hot. We feature white sox baseball, snorkling, St. Patrick's Day parties, and an alumni organization that won't quit. Call the Student Activities Board at 239-7757. 
Debbie did Days Inn IV WANTED: Guitarists and lor singers, males and females, for Lewis Hall Sunday Mass. Interested? Call lisa 2665. 

logan Volunteers: Hawaiian theme Dance Friday Night, 7:30 to 10. Regular Rec Saturday, 9 to 11:30 a.m. Be there Aloha!!! 
Dam's Taxi: Free ride from C.V. to 
N.D. if Dom can Blow Chow on you. Snickers Man ... Can we eat yo~r bar??? 
G~~-r~~: s·il·~~ ~-n·d a~·b·............. . 
When can we meet you? 
Patti, Micki and Maude 
Happy 21st Birthday Joanie McKen· na!! Sorry, but the black tie dinner In honor of your birthday has been cancelled due to lack of response. Sometimes the truth hurts. Happy bir­thday anyway. Have fun doing something. maybe you could take Slv and Cub swimming? 
love, 

The only 2 people who responded. 
As the years Wayne, many Buck at the responsibilities of life, or carry a Chip on their shoulders. But not you guys. Frankly, 11-7 men are always up for a party. Happy Birthday!! I 
·The luscious Lewis ladies 

WINTER PARK, COLORADO ... $212.00 Six nights, lour-day ski pass We need 48 sign-ups lor a bus, orher· 
wise we will take cars. 

MANDATORY MEETING ON MON­DAY, JAN. 25. AT 7 P.M. AT THE 
LITTLE THEATER Call Joe at 3296 or Eric at 277-4617 if interested. 
KEENAN REVUE TICKET DISTRIBU· TION: Tuesday, Jan. 29 Chautauqua Ballroom, 4:30p.m. 
MARY BENDER 
MARY BENDER 
MARY BENDER 

MARY BENDER HAPPY BIRTHDAY! love, laura Happy Birthday Sleeza Leiza 
Brodeur! 
To the WOMAN who spends time 
with mashers, does shots at Corby's 
and who's theme song is "like a 
Virgin," keep up the good work. 
LOVE BETH & KT 

Neighborhood study help program 
Organizational meeting 
Sunday, Jan. 27 7:00p.m. 

Architecture Building Auditorium 
All Fall Semester Tutors and new 
tutors required to attend 
If you're unable to attend or have any 
questions call: Debbie 3563, Martha 
4268, or Annie 4234 
lady She: You're terrific! Thanks for being a friend. You'll always be my favorite Grape Queen. Tainted Love. 
STEREO FOR SALE Emerson w/ cassette, turntable etc. GREAT SPEAKERS Bought for $350 in 83, selling for only $200. Call Claire 2719 362 Badin. 
Happy Birthday to You! Happy Birthday to You! Happy Birthday Dearest Melinda!!! Happy Birthday to You!! Here's to Saturday Night!!! 
There once was a girl from Westbury, 
Whose birthday arrived, January. 
Of years twenty and one, 

Her life only begun, Live, laugh, learn, party, drink, and be merry! 
Happy Birthday, Karen! 

ladies & Gentlemen, for the 1st time ever Student Activities Board is offer­ing 2 trip~ to Florida! The fun & Sun will be great. Be smart, call 239-7757, and go with the Student Activities Board! 
Need book by James Ingram entitled International Economics. call Dave 4512. 
AAAAAAAAHHHHHHH!!! 
DeMaio & Vickers 
"Tell Chris I want to be on layout stall." T.L.O. 
TIMOTHY HUTTON CAPTURES NEW YORK CITY IN "TURK 182!" 
Academy Award winner Timothy Hutton plays a very new kind of hero in "Turk 182!" As the fighting mad. hip and resourceful Jimmy Lynch, he sets out to prove you can battle City Hall to right a wrong. His older brother, a firefighter, is injured while saving a child from a burning tenement. But since he was off-duty and having a drink in the local bar, an uncaring city bureaucracy has refused him a pension. 
Crusader Excites City When the mayor is too busy running for re-election to hear his case. Jim­


Tl.\IOTJ-tr HUTTO."•; .11ars in "TURf.. 
182.1" a1 Jimmr 1._\'/lch. aroung mw1 "'hose crumde ro redeem his hrother\ repurarion ralltl'\ 1111 em ire ci1_1· 10 his ~tde. 
my Lynch takes matters into his ovm hands. Using only his wits, Jimmy sets out to prove that you can fight City Hall, and the entire city rallies behind the mysterious crusader known as Turk 182. 
Hutton proves riveting as Jimmy Lynch, a budding artist pushed into action to fight for his brother's life-and justice. Recently starring with Sean Penn and Lori Singer in "The Falcon and the Snowman", Hutton has followed his Oscar-win­ning debut in "Ordinary People" with extraordinary performances in films such as "Taps", "Daniel" and "Iceman". 
Joining Hutton in this excllmg ur­ban ad\'enture are Robert Urich, Kim Cattrall, Robert Culp, Darren McGavin and Peter Boyle. 
FEBRUARY MEANS "MISCHIEF" 
FOR MOVIEGOERS 
Doug McKeon is burning up-he's getting dangerously close to college without hitting a "home run" with any girl, much less Kelly Preston, the cutest one in the class. Let's face it-it's the 1950's, and Doug would settle for a "single". That is, until big city buddy (and screen newcom­er) Chris Nash arrives at school and bets that he can help Doug hit a grand slam. 
A winning cast The cast of "Mischief" is particu­larly hip. Doug McKeon is best known as the "suck-face" kid in "On Golden Pond". Kelly Preston, soon to be seen in the upcoming "Secret Admirer", played the lus­cious damsel in distress in "Metal 


Hoy & /!,irl in search ofa contact lens. 
Storm". Catherine Mary Stewart, who plays Chris Nash's girlfriend, was a smash hit as the lead in both "Night of the Comet" and "The Last Starfighter". 
Major league mischief 
Together, Doug, Kelly, Chris and Catherine stir up more rowdy "mis­chief" than little Nelsonville, Ohio can take in one year. We're talking major league tomfoolery here: motorcycles on sidewalks, cars on fire hydrants, parents on the war­path, romance on the sly. In short, all the things that make iife worth living before college. 
The cars may have changed, but the action in the back seat has not! 
The Observer Friday, January 25, 1985 -page 6 
CARNIVALSALE ~ 
Sweaters and accessories 25~-40~ off earrings. bracelets & resortwear 25" off 
Mon.-Sat. 10-6 step into the Richness ofthe A.ndes at: Friday 10-9 Orchid Lane I·.Jo CPnr 
Sunday 12-5 Mrshawaka 
'A' league action 

Interhall basketball races heat up 
By FRANK HUEMMER 
Sports Writer 
As the frigid temperatures of South Bend begin to rise, the men's interhall basketball "A" league ac­tion is starting to heat up. The races in the three leagues are unfolding into tight battles in which the re­maining games are certain to be packed with excitement as the teams struggle to reach the playoffs. 
"The ACC division will go down to the wire and right now anything can happen," said Flanner captam Pete Vrdolyak. 
His analysis appears to be cor­rect, as the ACC league shows Flanner, Dillon, Off Campus and 
Men 
continuedfrom page 8 
Maryland is not a two-man show, though. Keith Gatlin, a 6-5 sophomore, is developing into one of the better point guards in the country, while 6-5 senior guard Jeff Adkins has proven that he can put a lot of points on the board coming off the bench. 
Inside, the Terps will be relying on three young players to help out Bias and Branch. Freshman Der­rick Lewis has shown flashes of brilliance while scoring over six points and pulling down 6.6 re­bounds per game. JuCo transfer Tom Jones (7 .5 ppg) and Terry 
Women 
continuedfrom page 8 
since the injury, Anderson has fail­ed to break the 20-point barrier. 
Alongside Anderson in DePaul's starting backcourt is 5-0 freshman Andrea Morgan, who averages 5.7 points per game. The forwards are the only veterans in the starting lineup: 5-10 senior Mary Lou O'Brien (6.9 ppg.) and 5-10 junior 
Tracy  Manuel  (6.0  ppg.).  The  
center  is  a  6-0  freshman  Janice  
Streit,  the  team's  second-leading  

scorer with a 12.2 points-per-game average. 
"DePaul is a pressing team," says DiStanislao. "They're a team that wants to go up-tempo, a team that goes hard to the boards. But on the offensive end of it, if they're not getting fast-break baskets they're going to pull up and shoot from the perimeter." 
The Irish haven't played a game since last Saturday's convincing 76­62 win at Detroit. In that game, Notre Dame's frontcourt players dominated the action, as Sandy Botham, Mary Beth Schueth, Trena Keyes and Carrie Bates com­bined for 59 points and 32 re­bounds in the contest. Overall, the Irish out-rebounded Detroit, 41-34. 
"What we're looking to do this weekend is improve on the con­sistency that we showed last weekend," says DiStanislao. "We won't play the same kind of game, at least defensively, as we did last weekend because we're playng dif­ferent types of teams this weekend. We need to shoot a good percen­tage from the floor and we need to control the boards the way we did against Detroit." 
IRISH ITEMS • Schueth's nine rebounds against Detroit brought her a career total to 723 as she at­tempts to become the Irish all-time leading career rebounder. Schueth needs 23 boards to pass Shari Matvey's current standard of 745, amassed between 1979-83.... The Irish will be back on the road at Butler Wednesday night for a 7:30 contest, before returning home to face Evansvill in the ACC on Feb. 
I. 

Stanford at 3-1, while Alumni is 2-unbeaten with a 72-56 triumph over 
2. Stanford gained a share of first _Off Campus (2-2). Also Alumni (2­place by knocking Off Campus but the upset in the division occur­from the ranks of the unbeaten, 62-red when Keenan edged Morrissey, 
36-35. A tip-in by Jim Reed with 1036, while Dillon was victorious by seconds left propelled Keenan to itsforfeit over Carroll. 

first victory of the season overIn further action, Flanner split previously undefeated Morrissey.

its two games. It toppled Carroll (0­2) trounced Howard (0-4), 67-48, 
"It's about time we finally won a 4), 68-37, and then lost to Alumni-, close game," said Keenan captain 48-46, as Henry Zeisel sank two Mychal Schulz, whose team has pressure free throws with one se­
lost three games by a total of 12 points.

cond left to give Alumni the vic­With Morrissey's first loss, Gracetory. 
takes over the division lead at 4-0,The ACC, however, is not the followed by Dillon and Morrisseyonly tight race, as the Big Ten has at 3-1.

three teams in contention. Dillon Finally, in a showdown between(3-1) knocked off Holy Cross (1-3), the divisional leaders of the Pac50-40, and Grace remained Ten, Sorin squeaked by St. Ed's, 
37-36, giving it sole possession ofLong (2.4 ppg) also have con­first place.

tributed. 

"We play Maryland, not just "It was a big victory for us, and it Branch and Bias," says Phelps. will not be the last time we see St. "I'm not concerned about two guys Ed's," noted Sorin captain Pat Col­getting 40 points because I think it's lins. going to come down to how well we In this game, which was close do and how we play offensively. throughout, Steve Beuerlein's 14 
"We've been concentrating on points led Sorin while Brian our offensive execution because 
Behmer's 11 points paced St. Ed's. "It was real war out there," saidthat's where our letdown has been St. Ed's Kevin Finger about therecently. We just have to score Sorin game. 

,some points on the road in key situations." With the loss, St. Ed's slipped to If this is a typical Notre Dame­a second-place tie with Grace at 3-1. Maryland game, you can be sure 
Grace remained in the playoff pic­ture by defeating Stanford, 60-50,that there will be quite a few "key while Flanner (2-2) trounced Offsituations_" Campus (0-4), 67-40.

IRISlt ITEMS-There will be It appears certain that the second 
no television for tomorrow's game 
half of the men's interhall "A" which begins at 1 p.m.... The FeV. 
league basketball season should be 9 Syracuse game in the ACC has filled with plenty of excitement as been changed from l p.m. to 3 p.m. the three divisional races begin to for NBC Television. take shape. 
~ URBAN P(V ~ 
: REMINDER!! 
• 
The Urban Plunge Follow-up : Meeting is this Sunday. • Jan. 27•• 7:00-IO:OOpm 

• 
Library Auditorium.


•
. 
. 
z: 
G)•• •
• 
m : 
: • : • 
·: 

~ . 
-

• 
We will meet to go to faculty or resource people's homes.-• 

• 
Transportation will be provided. Be there!! : 



PROBLEMS IN EAT/ NG 
THERAPY GROUP 
Are You Familiar With Eating Disorders? Are you concerned by some or all of the following? 
Awareness that your eating pattern is abnormal and fear of not being able to stop eating voluntarily. Spending an inordinate amount of time thinking about food. Consumption of high-caloric food durinA a binge. Hiding while hinging. Repeated attempts to lose or mtlintain weight by severely 
restrictive diets, self-induced vomitinA, or use of 
cathartics or diuretics. Anxiousness, depression, low self-esteem or loneliness which are dealt wlth through eating. 
Eating disorders <1ffect females and males but is more prevalent among young women. 
A 12-wcek structured therapy J;roup meeting every Munday, be­ginning Monday, January 28, 1985 on' the Notre Dame campus. Limited Enrollment. 
Contact the Coun~eling and Psychologlc.11 Services Center by .lnnuury 25, 1985 for informiltlnn ;uu.J nn interview. 
For further in£ormation cont.:.H:t: 
Mary Theis, M.A. 
or Pat Dunn, M.A. 239-7336 





~~.cllC3L~-------------------------------------------F-r-id_a_y_,J_a_n_u_a_ry_2_s_,_I_9_ss
___.P_ag•e-7 


Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 
TankMcNamara 



Bloom County The Far Side Gary Larson . 

Campus 
* 
12:15-1:00 p.m.-Friday Forum, "The Bishops' Pastoral on the Economy: A Sound Vision?" Father Oliver Williams, Notre Dame, CSC. Brown Bag or Soup and Bread, $1. Call 5293 for food reservations. *4:30p.m.-Informational Meeting, 1985 Nazz Entertainment Competition, Student Activities Office, Second Floor, LaFortune. 

* 
5:00 p.m. -Organizational Meeting, "Reggae For Ethiopia," LaFortune Lobby. 

* 
6:30 p.m. Indoor Track 


Loyola/DePaul/Valparaiso/Bradley, ACC Fieldhouse. 
* 
7 p.m. -AIESEC Meeting, of Central Region Presidents, Saint Mary's, Lasts all weekend. 

* 
7,9:15 & 11:30 -Film, "The Big Chill," Engineering Auditorium, $1.50. Sponsored by Graduate Student Union. *7:30p.m.-Film, "A Girl From Lorraine," An­nenberg Auditorium. 

* 
8 p.m.-Mime, Keith Berger, O'Laughlin Hall, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by SMC Student Government, $2 for students. 

* 
8 p.m. -Plays "Charley the Chicken" and "A Resounding Tinkle," Washington Hall, Spon­sored by ND/SMC Theater, $2. 

* 
8 p.m. -REO Speedwagon concert, ACC. 


Saturday, January 26 
* 
8 a.m. -3 p.m. -Graduate Management Admis­sions Test Engineering Auditorium. 

* 
6:30 p.m. -Tubing, Bendix Woods, Meet at Library Circle, Sponsored by Sophomore Ad­visory Council, $3. 

* 
7 p.m. -Film, "Merry Couple," Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Chinese Student Association. 

* 
7, 9:15 & 11:30 p.m.-Film, "The Big Chill," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by the Graduate Student Union, $1.50. 

* 
8 p.m. -Plays, "Charley the Chicken" and "A Resounding Tinkle," Washington Hall, Spon­sored by ND/SMC Theater, $2. 


Sunday, January 27 
* 
4 p.m. -Art Exhibition Opening, Autochromes: Color Photography Comes of Age, O'Shaughnessy Gallery East. 

* 
4 p.m. -Pianist, Juana Zayas, Annenberg Auditorium. 

* 
5 p.m. -Film/Discussion, "Apparitions of Mary at Garabandal," Peter Coppa, Chicago Heights attorney, Library Auditorium, Spon­sored by Knights of the Immaculata. 

* 
7 -8 p.m. -Urban Plunge Follow-up, Father Don McNeill, Library Auditorium. 




Communication & Theatre Films at the Snite 
A

Fri., Jan. 25 Claude Goretta's  Mon., Jan. 28 Pasolini's  Tues., Jan. 29 Truffant's  communiCAIIOO 11. THEATRE  
A Girl from  The Gospel Accon:li­ ·  The Story of  
Lorraine  to St. Matthew  Adele H.  
7:30pm  7:00pm  7:30 & 9:30pm  
The Marx Bros.'  
Monkey Business  Indiv. admission $2.50  
9:20pm  Series tickets also available  

furnished 3 bedroom home, washer & dryer, close to campus 
4 ROOMATES NEEDED 
"The feel-good movie of 1983." 
R1chard Corliss TIME MAGAZINE 
Tonight and Tomorrow Night : 
7:00 
How much love, sex, fun and

9:15 friendship can a person take? 
11:30 THE 
BIGCHILL
$1.50 
In a cold world you need your friends
Engineering to keep you warm. Auditorium ·RJ ~:§·· 
Tired of High Prices? Empty Pocketbook got you Down? 
Try the new 

$TUDENT$AVER 
A DISCOUNT GENERAL STORE 
Serving your needs with SCHOOL SUPPLIES & BEAUTYAIDES 
Room 2-C off Ballroom, 2nd Floor LaFortune Open 4:00 -8:00pm Monday -Friday 
SRorts 
Irish take to road to continue classic series with Terrapins 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 

January 27, 1979 With Maryland trailing No. I Notre Dame, 66-64, and the final seconds ticking down, Terp center Larry Gibson gets a pass under the basket and banks it in with one second left. Bruce Flowers is whistled for a pushing foul. Gibson sinks the foul shot and Maryland pulls off the upset, 67-66. 
January 26, 1980 -Maryland erases a seven-point Notre Dame lead, finally taking a 63-62 lead with 15 seconds left when Albert King steals an inbounds pass and scores on a layup. However, Irish guard Tracy Jackson takes the en­suing inbounds pass, drives the length of the court and converts on another layup with four seconds re­maining. Notre Dame wins, 64-63. 
January 28, 1984-In front of a national television audience, Notre Dame stays close to the fifth­ranked Terps with the help of a tough defense that holds Maryland star Adrian Branch to one basket. Then, with 18 seconds left and the score tied, Irish senior Tom Sluby drives the right side for a layup and is fouled in the process. He finishes off the three-point play and the Irish go on to win, 52-47. 
The Maryland Terrapins and Notre Dame began playing each other in 1974. At the time both teams were among the best in the nation, so it appeared that the series had the potential to become one of college basketball's best rivalries. After II games, of which Notre Dame has won six, it is ob­vious that the Terp-Irish rivalry has been everything anyone could have expected. 
Three of the last four games in 
Women go to Chicago for North Star contests 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
CHICAGO -The Notre Dame women's basketball team ends a six-day layoff tonight, as the Irish hit the Windy City for two North Star Conference games over the weekend. 
Tonight at 7:30 CST, Mary DiStanislao's squad faces the Loyola Lady Ramblers, and on Sunday afternoon at 3:00 CST, the Irish take on the Lady Blue Demons of DePaul. 
"These are two very important games for us," says DiStanislao. "It's very tough for a visiting team to play at either of these schools. If we can come away with two wins, then we'll be in very good shape as far as the conference is concerned." 
Winnning both games will be no easy task, however. The Lady 

Mary DiStanislao 
Ramblers, defending North Star champs, are 8-3 this season, and I­I in the conference, with a 78-65 victory over Xavier and a 66-56loss to Dayton. Loyola has a high­powered offensive attack that averages 73 points per game, and Marty Haskin's squad features five players with double-figure scoring averages. The key to the Lady Ramblers offense, however, is 5-2 senior point guard Faith Mim­naugh, who averages 12.5 assists per game. 
"When you talk about Loyola you're talking about an experienced team, with a point guard who leads the nation in assists, so what you've got to do defensively is work on taking away passing lanes," ex­plains DiStanislao. "For us to beat Loyola we're going to have to con­trol the boards, as well as have good shot selection on the other end. I think we have to be very aware that they will take advantage of the transition game if you let them, they'll run the ball down the floor and they fill lanes very well." 

Joining Mimnaugh in Loyola's starting backcourt is 5-8 junior guard Kathy Leyden, the team's leading scorer with a 15.7 points­per-game average. The frontcourt is small but balanced, with a 5-10 senior Kathy Myers (10.3 points per game) and 6-0 junior Jackie Hustzi 
(12.8 ppg.) at the forwards, flank­ing 6-0 junior center Maureen McNerney (11.8 ppg.). 
Center Sue Busiel, a 6-0 junior averaging 11.6 points per game, has recovered from an ankle sprain and will be available for tonight's game. 
"Offensively, I think we can take advantage of our height and try to push the ball inside," says DiStanislao. "And we might just try a little transition ourselves." 
Loyola beat the Irish twice last year, and DiStanislao believes that the Lady Ramblers are a threat to repeat as conference champs in 1984-85. 
"I think that even though Detroit and we have gained a little momen­tum, Loyola is still the team to beat in the conference champs in 1984­85. 
"I think that even though Detroit and we have gained a little momen­tum, Loyola is still the team to beat in the conference," notes the Irish coach. "They have the bulk of their team back and they're playing with the kind of confidence that a suc­cessful team has." 
First year DePaul coach Jim Izard lost six letterwinners from last year's 12-16 squad, but has still managed to upgrade the Lady Blue Demons' program. Izard's team currently is 10-3 overall, and, like Loyola, beat Xavier and lost to Dayton in its two conference games. 
Izard has juggled his lineup for much of the season, and he has relied primarily on his guards for scoring. Sally Anderson, a 5-5 sophomore, is averaging 19.9 points per game, but has been hampered recently by an ankle in­jury suffered in a game against Cornell on Jan. 5. In five games 
see WOMEN, page 6 
the series have been decided by one point, while each of the last six has been decided by five points or less. It does not take a genius to figure out that tomorrow's game between the 9-4 Irish and 14-5 Terps has a good chance of becoming the latest in the series of thrillers. 
As usual, both teams enter the game with a lot to gain from a win. Charles "Lefty" Driesell's Terps have flirted with the Top 20 all year and need a win over the Irish to keep them within breathing distance of the list. More impor­tantly, however, Maryland needs to pile up as many wins as possible outside of the brutal Atlantic Coast Conference, because ACC wins are always tough to pick up. 
Notre Dame has even more to gain from a win over the Terps as it tries to prove that it can beat one of the best teams in the nation on the road. Cole Field House is not an easy place for visitors to play, so it will take a solid effort by the Irish to come out of Maryland with their lOth win 
"Maryland is probably as good, if not better, than they were last year," says Digger Phelps about his hosts. "Last year they won the ACC and I think this is one of Lef­ty's best teams as far as personnel who complement each other." Driesell lost two key players from last year's squad, which finished 24-8, losing to Illinois, 72-70, in the second round of the NCAA Tour­nament. Center Ben Coleman and forward Herman Veal both graduated, and their loss has been felt in the middle as the Terps have occasionally had trouble on the boards. However, the one-two scoring punch of forward Len Bias and guard Adrian Branch has made Maryland fans forget about the losses. Bias, a 6-8 junior, and Bran­ch, a 6-8 senior, have contributed 
19.4 and 19.5 points per game, respectively. They are the only players scoring in double figures on a team that averages 74 points per game. 
see MEN, page 6 

SMC holds tourney 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team will host its third annual Roundball Classic beginning this afternoon when an array of eight NAIA and NCAA Divi­sion III teams arrive at the Angela Athletic Facility for two days of play. 
"It should be an evenly match­ed group of teams," said Saint Mary's head coach Marvin Wood. "All the teams will be looking to improve their records, so it should bring out the best in everyone." 
Action begins at 2:30p.m. to­day when Grace College of War­saw, Ind., meets up with DePauw University of Green­castle, Ind. Immediately follow­ing at 4:30 p.m., Purdue­Calumet, one of the strongest teams in the tourney, will be pit­ted against George Williams College of Downers Grove, Ill. 
Chicago State is slated for a 6:30 p.m. contest against Man­chester College, which handed the Belles a 64-54loss earlier this season. Saint Mary's ten will face Albion College of Albion, Mich., at 8:30 p.m. in the nightcap. 

Saturday's round of play will begin with consolation games at 
9:30 and 11:30 a.m., with the championship game in the con­solation bracket to be played at 5:30p.m. 
The winners' bracket will play Saturday at I and 3 p.m. The survivors of these games will then collide for the champion­ship at 7:45p.m. 
In last year's tourney, which featured only four teams, Saint Mary's was eliminated in the first round. 
This year, with a full week of practice under their belts, the Belles are looking to make an impressive showing in this weekend's tourney and improve on their 2-9 record. 
Friday, January 25, 1985 -page 8 

AP Photo 

Senior forward Adrian Branch, who averages /9.5 points per game, will lead the Maryland Terrapins against Notre Dame tomor­row. Mike :)ullivan previews the match up in his story at left. 
Fencers hope to keep their winning ways at 9-team meet 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
Today and tomorrow the Notre Dame fencing teams will try to con­tinue their winning ways when they compete in a nine-team meet in Columbus, Ohio. 
Fencing coach Mike DeCicco said he is confident going into the meet. 
"We are an excellent team right now. I would be very surprised if any the teams we are facing, ex­cluding Ohio State, gives us any fits." 
The men's team is currently 6-0 and highly ranked on the national level. DeCicco attributes the team's success to its outstanding balance. 
"The secret to 0ur success is our tremendous balance. None of the teams that we are facing in the meet, except Ohio State, possess the overall team balance to beat us." 
Ohio State has a very good foil team and a more-than-respectable epee squad. The Buckeyes also have one of the best fencers in the nation. Sunil Sabharwal is an all­American foiler who placed sixth in the NCCAs last year 
Sabharwal, however, will have to go against another of the nation's best foilers. Notre Dame sophomore Charles Higgs­Coulthard currently is 13-1 and one of the hottest fencers in the coutry. This matchup certainly should pro­ve to be one of the best of the meet. 
Notre Dame will open the meet this afternoon at 4 p.m. when it takes on Cornell. The Irish then square off against Michigan­Dearborn at 6 p.m. Saturday morn­ing Notre Dame will take on Ohio State, then Miami (Ohio) and Oberlin College. 
The Notre Dame women's fenc­ing team also will be participating in the nine-school meet. The women bring a 5-2 record into Col­umbus, but they will be fencing without their freshman sensation, Molly Sullivan. 
Sullivan will be participating in a national tournament at San Fran­cisco University. In the tourney she is ranked 12th in a field of 65 of the best women fencers in the coutry. 
Naturally, the team's strength is weakened by the absence of Sullivan. DeCicco, however, said he still feels that Notre Dame has a good chance of success. 
"Without Molly we are going to have a tough time beating some of these teams. Still, it can be done, but our fencers will have to fence to their full potential." 
The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams will face some tough competitiion over the next few days in the nine-team meet in Columbus. The 6-0 men's team, at full strenght, should have an easier time than the women's team minus Sullivan, but both squads will face ample challenges from their competition. 





