
Faculty salaries -page 3 

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 198'5
VOL XX, NO.3 

South Bend police warn of stricter OC party rules 
By KEITH HARRISON JR. and what kinds ot penalties they host approximately 1 5 minutes to of community service hours, Williams said calling the substa· Neu•s Editor could face." bring the party under control or though," he said. tion would eliminate confusion if To help them do their job, police break it up. Regardless ofage, those attending the party is broken up. 
South Bend police officers will be are now using a decibel meter to "Ninety-nine percent of the time, such parties also may be charged "Often when we come to a party cracking down on off-campus measure the noise level at off­though, it isn't possible to get the with misdemeanors for disorderly and issue a warning to break up the parties this year and using a noise­campus parties. Between 10 p.m. party under control, so it will have conduct, public intoxication (when party, the host does not even see us measuring device to help with en­and 7 a.m., a city ordinance defines to be broken up," he said. they leave the host's property), and because of the crowds. So then the forcement. according to Lt. Dick any noise greater than 55 decibels as Students at a party that is broken trespassing (if they refuse to leave host doesn't try to break anything up Badics of the east sector substation. a Class C infraction with a maximum up can face a number ofcharges, ac­after the host has told them to), and the party is still out of control 
"We're going to be more strict S50 fine, Badics said. cording to Badics. Anyone less than Badics added. when we return," Williams said. this year," Badics said yestt·rday at a "Fifty-five decibels is not very 21 years old may be charged with a "We are asking all students who "Some students may think we're meeting with Student Body Vice loud," he said. "We measured a party Class C violation, even ifthey are not are going to host off-campus parties harassing them, but when there are President Duane Lawrence and last week which registered 70 caught drinking, he said. to call us at the east sector students creating a disturbance Housing and Securities Commis· decibels." (substation ) and tell us the date, we've got to respond," Badics said. sionerJohn Trusela. Officers will not issue tickets, "If a minor is in possession of al· location and hours ofthe party," said "It's our job." 
"This meeting is the break we're however, until the noise level cohol, they face a misdemeanor Lt. Norval Williams. "That way we Although police sometimes inves· giving students," Badics said. "We're reaches 65 decibels, Badics added. charge which could put them in jail can tell them what is expected in tigate a party on their own, usually doing this so students will know If noise from the party exceeds 65 for up to a year," Badics said. "The terms of conduct, noise levels and 
see PARTIES, page 5

what we're expecting from them decibels, police will give the party's penalty is usually a fine or a number clean-up." 

ND transfer students face unique challenges 
By FRANK LIPO "Enrollment and budget are inex­CopyCbief tricably linked," said Thomas. Two major problems which trans· 
"The prestige and tradition here. fer students face are housing The atmosphere. And of course the problems and problems in receiving education," said junior David Jacobi, financial aid, according to Thomas. giving his reasons for his recent When transfer students are ac-transfer to Notre Dame. cepted into the University, they are 
These reasons are the sort that sent a packet of off-campus housing many Notre Dame students might information by the off-campus give for their decision to attend the housing office. They are not University. Yet, transfer students promised on-campus housing, but face problems that the average they do have the opportunity to Notre Dame undergraduate student write a letter to the office of does not confront. residence life to request a position 
Transfer students are admitted to on the on-campus housing waiting the University to replace those stu· list. dents who leave Notre Dame. AI· Because freshman, 3/2 engineers though this rate of attrition is low (students who study at a liberal arts compared to many other univer-college for three years and then sities, it still is substantial enough to finish the last two as a Notre Dame 

The ObonveriPIIul Pahornky make the acceptance of transfer stu· engineer), and those returning from dents a necessity for financial abroad are put at the top of the lis:, reasons, according to Michelle transfers who want on-campus
Look familiar? Ifnot, it will. The inet•itable lines semester's assignments. Look for continued heavy 
Thomas, admissions counselor at
at the bookstore showed up on cue yesterday, with inconvenience today, tapering to scattered long 


see TRANSFERS, page 5

flrst·day students "anxious" to get started on the lines later this week. the University. 

Line warning 

,,,


Look for barbershop, laundromat "'~ in LaFortune addition-next year • 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST Work Is centered around an ad­basement lounge and study area. Copy Editor dition to the east side of LaFortune The coffered ceiling will have inset 
facing Nieuwland Science Hall. track lighting and booths will en· The renovation of LaFonune Stu· The new stmcture will provide in­circle the area, she said. dent Center is underway, as shown creased space for present oc­A copy machine room with six by the gaping hole on the build· cupants of LaFortune, and will also to eight machines and a small com­
ing's east side. create room for many new student mercial space for a barbershop will 
Demolition of a portion of the services. be located on the west side. Uni· structure was completed this sum· versity Hairstylists, currently mer, said Don Dedrick, director of Plans include an east side base­located in Badin Hall, will be the physical plant. Construction of ment addition, which will feature a moved to the basement ofthe new the new facilities will continue un· 24-hour laundromat, a wide­addition. til completion in early September screen television lounge and of 1986, he said. recreation areas with pool tables Renovations on the second floor 
Some inconvenience and tem­and video games. include a permanent stage in the porary relocations will be part of 
Increased and diverse food ballroom, with lounges added at the renovation, said Joni Neal, services are also planned. The 
each side of the existing dance director of student activities. In an north side ofthe new basement ad· . floor. New light and sound booths interview last April, Neal said the dition will offer grill items, bar­will be added, along with a improved facility would be well beque, pizza and ice cream. terraced seating area and a bar worth the wait. 
where non-alcoholic drinks will be "We're trying to keep incon· A salad bar, potato bar, Mexican served. venience for the students to a mini­and Chinese cuisine will be 
The third floor has been mum," said Virgil Magerflelsch, available at counters on the south designated the student media vice-president of architecture for side. floor, where offices of the Dome, 
Cole Assodates, the firm handling Renovation will require closing Scholastic, theJuggler and The Ob­11te Huddle during pan ofthe sum· server will be located. The Univer·
the renovation. 

sity's AM radio station, WVFI, will A lonely piece ofequipment sits at the bottom ofa bole where
"Most of the building will be mer of 1986, Magerfleisch said. move to LaFortune from its cur· part ofLaFortune Student Center once stood. Renovations are to be
able to be occupied throughout Neal said another improvement the constmctlon," he said. will be Increased lighting in the rent studio in O'Shaughnessy Hall. finished by September 1986. 
---------------:------·-----­
··­

The Observer Wednesday, August 28, 1985-page 2 


In Brief 
A 1984 Saint Mary's graduate isinirelandright now, competing for the International Rose of Tralee Award. Kath­leen Ellen King, of Mount Lebanon, Penn., left for Tralee, County Kerry, to compete with 35 other contestants from around the world for the prestigious Irish award. King was chosen the 1985 Pen­nsylavania Rose of Tralee from 30 finalists at the eleventh annual pageant, held at the Blarney Stone Restaurant in Etna. She graduated from Saint Macy's with a nursing degree and is currently working as a registered nurse in the special care nursery at Children's Hospital in Pittsburgh. -The Obseroer 
Twenty-two Army ROTC cadets successfully completed army special schools this summer. For the second con­secutive year, Notre Dame Army ROTC cadets had a 100 percent completion rate for candidates sent. Cadet Eric Miller completed air-assault school at Fort Campbell, Ky. Cadets Steve Schmidt, Greg Cleary, Mike Falso, Jeff Kulmayer, Mike Fagnant, Kevin Krull, Paul Nobbe, George Belin, Pat Doyle, Bob Price, Mike Cotter, Arturo Pico, Ron Giometti, Matt Ryan, Gary Flanagan, Kevin Butterfield, Dan Knappenberger, Michele Ritchie, Anne-Marie Quinlan and Nick Bognanno completed airborne school at Fort Benning, Ga. Cadet MarcJensen completed northern warfare school in Alaska. -The Ob­
seroer 
Of Interest 
David Stockman, former director of the Office of Budget and Management, will be campaigning for U.S. Senator Dan Quayle (R-Ind.), during a stop in South Bend today. Stockman will appear at a fundraising reception at the home ofErnestine Radin, 1st Source Corp. chairman. Stockman and Quayle served together in the House of Representatives from 1976 to 1980, when Stockman represented Michigan's Fourth Congressional District. -The Obser­
ver 
Seniors! Sign-ups for the Sept. 7 Great America trip will be today, tomorrow and Friday at the LaFortune information 
desk from 2 to 4 and 6 to 8 p.m. -The Obseroer 

Weather 
Fairway weather today, which means the links ought to get crowded and books will just have to wait another day. A 20 percent chance of late afternoon thunder­showers today with highs near 80. Partly cloudy tonight with lows in the low 60s. Partly cloudy tomorrow with highs in the low 80s. -AP 
I~ ,.1 
I


~-,:1
I ' 

The Observer 
lbe Obeerver {USPS 599 2·4000) is rmblished Monday through Friday and c.·: .orne footbaU Saturdays, except dt ng exam and vacation periods. lbe Ob.oener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for HO per year ( S20 pc:r 5c:mester) by writing lbe Ob~, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer is a member of lbe ~ Presa. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 

Design Edttor......•.•............... Andi Schnuck Typesetters .....Tom SmaU, jennifer Bigou News Editor ....................... Bob Musselman Copy Editor...•...•................. Margie Kirsten Sports Copy Editor ...•.............. Larry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Macy Ellen Har· 
rington 
Viewpoint Layout............ Melissa Warnke ND Day Editor.......................... Amie Starin Ad Design .................. Macy Carol Creadon Photographer....•................ Paul Pahoresky 

South Bend offers more than ethanol and boredom 
Now that classes have finally begun, students will soon immerse themselves in the books that are now quickly disappearing from the bookstore shelves. 
But as studies get more intense and classes surpass 
the passing-out-the-syllabus stage, Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's students will undoubtedly begin to look for 
ways to blow off steam. 
Looking around, however, the untrained observer could become frustrated with the lack ofany real enter­tainment options in the South Bend area. It almost ap­pears as if greater South Bend metropolitan area is a cultural and entertainment wasteland. 
Nothing could be farther from the truth. 
like anything worthwhile, the happening scene in South Bend has to be sought out. To the ambitious en­tertainment hound, the city can be a better place to have fun than a lot of the college towns your friends keep bragging about -but only if you know where to look. 
First, film is more than what forms on you teeth when sleep in South 

Dan 

McCullough 
News Editor 
begun earlier this month with a performance by the always-loud George Thorogood and the Delaware Destroyers. 
For those whose tastes lie more among the likes of Hank Williams and Alabama, a little-known but un­derrated bar called Still Country lies just north up U.S. 31 right before the Michigan state line. This rustic tavern features live country and western bands every weekend. While the groups usually perform cover ver­sions of current country tunes as well as the classic oldies, the place is a lot of fun and the people are the 

you nicest you'd ever want to 
Bend. On the Notre Dame meet. It also features a large campus alone, the excellent wooden dance floor where Snite film series features 
even Notre Dame students 

both classic and contem­can doe-see-doe. The South porary films in the luxurious Bend Tribune usually theatre in the basement 
carries the band names and level of the Snite Museum of 
times. Art. The Student Activities 
Jazz is also alive and well Board already has an im­at a hopping little joint not pressive slate of movies more than two miles from 
waiting to be projected the campuses. Duke's Bistro, upon the screen in the En­in the Georgetown Shop­gineering Auditorium. Look ping Center just northwest 
daily to The Observer for ofNotre Dame off Cleveland titles and times. Road, regularly features big Off-campus, the River name jazz artists, as well as 

Park Theatre in Mishawaka is continuing its River Park Classics series of off-beat and worthwhile films. Last semester, student flocked to the theatre for the Talking Heads concert film, "Stop Making Sense." This summer, a South African film, called "The Gods Must Be Crazy," about a bushman confronted with contemporary society through a misplaced Coca-Cola bottle, was held over for an unprecedented three months. 
Starting tomorrow, a controversial and touching documentary about children living on the streets of Portland, Oregon, "Streetwise," opens at the River Park. 
Musically, the area also has a lot to offer. For the big­name popular artists, the Athletic and Convocation Center is the place to be. The ACC has the very-hot Tina Turner booked for this Sunday night. Opening for Mrs. Twill be former-Eagle Glen Frey. 
In downtown South Bend, the Morris Civic Auditorium will play host to blues-guitar virtuoso Stevie Ray Vaughan on Friday, Sept. 6 at 8 p.m. Vaughan will continue a wailing rock tradition at the Morris local jazz and progressive groups. 
Another generally untapped entertainment resource is Chicago, only two hours away by train. 90 minutes by car. The Windy City has so many nightclubs and hot spots that it would be futile to even begin to list them. It should suffice to say that ifChicago doesn't have what you're looking for, then what you're looking for doesn't 
exist. 
From the singles scene of Rush Street to the hard­core punk clubs farther north, Chicago has something for everybody. While a Friday or Sunday edition of the Chicago Tribune usually has an adequate listing of things to do and see in the city, to really get a well· rounded view of what's going on, one has to pick up a copy of The Reader, the free newspaper that can be found in most record stores around the downtown and the northside areas. 

Like to talk on the phone? We'll pay you to do it. 
Call Amy Stephan at The Observer and learn how you can become a Day Editor 239-5303 
TheNROTC CollegeProgram. $2,000ExpenseMoneyAnd ANavy Officer Commission. 
The two-year NROTC College Program offers you two years of expense money that's worth up to $2,000 plus the challenge of be~oming a . Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-makmg authonty. 
During your last two years in college the Navy pays for unifonns, NROTC textbooks, and an allowance of SlOO a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and compl~tion of .requireme~ts.' ~?u become a Navy officer, with important decis1on-makmg respons1b1ht1es. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
Stop by the ROTC building on the Notre Dame campus, or dial 239-7274/6442 ~nd ask for LT Wachtl. 

Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. 


The Observer Wednesday, August 28, 1985 -page 3 

The Obocrvcr/Paul Pahornlry 

Gabriel Arrleh and Lorraine Brleto offerpassersbyfree ice cream at yesterday's Crazy Shirt and Shorts Ice CtY!am Social, held at tbe Fieldhouse Mall. Tbe event was sponsored by tbe junior class and featurf!d music by a disc jockey. 

Get in on the action! 

~lhe£lbsenter_­
Accent department 
is looking for talented, dedicated stu­dents to write feature stories, humor columns, movie and record reviews, and all about what's happening on campus. 
and is accepting applications for: 
• 
Assistant features editor 

• 
Features copy editor 


Contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 3rd floor of LaFortune, 239·5303 

ND faculty salaries in top fifth, says study by professors' group 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
Copy Editor 
The University of. Notre Dame recently achieved something that "it had a desire to do a long time ago," according to Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
By giving the faculty an average annual raise of 9 percent for the last six years, Notre Dame reached a long-range goal of having its faculty salaries rated in the top 20 percent in the country. 
According to a survey of 162 in­stitutions by the American Associa­tion of University Professors (AAUP), the average 1984-85 salary ofa full professor at Notre Dame was $48,000, which ranked 31st in the nation; associate professor S36,400, ranked 11th; assistant professor S29,500, ranked 16th; and instruc­tor $26,000, ranked 2nd. 
The average salary for all faculty at Notre Dame was $38,800 and ranked 27th in the nation. 
Six years before, the AAUP ranked Notre Dame's salaries for full profes­sor, assistant professor and instruc­tor in the the top 60 percent; and for associate professor, the top 40 per­cent. 
"In the '70s, the salaries of Notre Dame faculty were pretty low relative to other st:hools," O'Meara said. But only until the Pac-: report spelled out the goal in 1982 was any "deliberate action" taken to increase salaries, he said. 
One reason wages were raised, O'Meara said, was to improve the quality of the faculty. 
"I think the quality of our faculty is developing and salaries are a fac­tor in that. Not only in terms ofwho we hire, but also in terms ofmorale," he said. "Morale has increased In part because of the greater recogni­tion through various ways, including salaries." 
O'Meara said equity was another reason salaries were hiked. Equity, he said, meant paying faculty enough to support their families and paying higher salaries to people who have an extensive educational back· ground. 
Equity also meant narrowing the gap between the lower salaries paid 
to liberal arts protessors compared 
to those paid to engineering and 
business professors, O'Meara sald. 
"In some cases we're paying hig­
her than the market conditions," he 
said. "There's still a disparity bet­
ween the liberal arts and business 
and engineering, but at least we're 
trying to narrow the gap." 
Salaries were not higher in the 1970s, O'Meara said, because al­though funds were earmarked in the budget for pay raises then, once the time came to give the raises, the funds had gone into something dse. 
"The system had not developed and matured sufficiently and we weren't sticking to our priorities. 
"Suppose a certain amount of money had been set aside for raises. It might have been used to create a position," O'Meara explained. "That's why salaries had not gone up as we had anticipated," he said. "We should get a little higher perhaps with the full professors and make some adjustments where necessary, but in essence, we are almost where we should be," O'Meara said. 

Money from SMC goes to local economy 
Special to 1be Observer 
According to an Economic Impact Survey released in July, Saint Mary's was responsible for expenditures totaling S14.5 million in the local Michiana community during the 1983-84 school year. 
The study was the effort of Saint Mary's business Professor Jerome McElroy, and Jacqueline Kummer, a senior majoring in economics and music. 
A similar study done in 1978 un­der the direction of Professor Frank Yeandel found that the College con­tributed S9.1 million, showing a 60 percent increase since then, identi­cal to the cost ofliving raise. 
The expenditures were grouped 

OUR SCHOLARSHIP 
HELPS YOU BEGIN YOUR CAREER 

AS ALEADING ENGINEER. 
An engineering dewee will rake you far in today's hiRh-tech Army. And with an Army ROTC scholar.~hip. raming that degree can be both less expensive and more valuable 
The scholar.~hip not only pays your entire tuition. "'R3rdle>!i of the amount. but also required fees. an amount for books and supplies. and up to $1.000 each school year fur living expenses. 
It's an excellent scholarship. And it ~ets you a lot more than an enJ!ineerinj;l degree. Along wich your regular coulliCs, you11 take Army ROTC cla,o;cs and learn about motivann~ peoplf•, analyzing situiltions. making confidenc. informed decisions, and reaching defined goals. In short, you'llleam leadership and management skills that can't help but enhance your opportunities in the future. 
And you'II put your skills to work right away. because you re commissioned in the Army as a second lieutenant when you graduate.
Ifyou'd like an educa6on in leadership and manage· mem [0 go along with your engineering degree, find out more about Army ROTC Contact your Professor of Military Science. 
ARMY ROTC. 

BEALLYOU CAM BE. 

into four categories: operating and capital expenditures, faculty and staff salaries, student expenditures, and visitor expenditures. Data for the first two categories was taken from the 1983-84 academic year, 
the most recent year where com­plete information was available, while data and surveys from the 1984-85 year were used to determine student and visitor ex· penditures. 
Jason Undower, a controller, provided a breakdown of the $4.1 million non-salary expenditures. The utilities bill alone amounted to $1,102,000, including a phone bill of $302,000. SAGA dining hall spent $913,000 on food and non-food items. Local businesses providing services such as printing, advertising and trash removal received $247,000. Capital purchases amounted to $734,000, and operat­ing expenses, for such items as supplies and postage, totaled 1524,000. 
Over nine million dollars in wages was paid to 430 College employees, 220 SAGA Dining Hall employees· and 14 power plant workers. 
One thousand six hundred sixty Saint Mary's students resided on or off campus in the South Bend area 
during the 1984-85 school year. An interview of 50 students revealed an average expenditures of 97.50 per on-campus student per month and $193.00 per off-campus student during their nine month stay in the area. 
The survey defined two classifica­tions of visitors: occasional visitors and visitors to special events. The first category included occasional trips to campus by friends and relatives of students. The survey found that individual students averaged 6. 7 visitors during the 1984--85 school year, and each visitor spent an average of $75 per trip. Thus, occasional visitors ac­counted for S834,150 spent in the local community for the year. 
The second category included visitors to College-sponsored weekends such as Freshman Orientation and Commencement. Those visiting campus for a special event spent an average of n 57 per trip. Total spending for visitors to special events was estimated to be S690,329. 
McElroy pointed at the sig­nifigance of the survey. "The study shows that Saint Mary's is a substan­tial contributor to the local economy," he said. 



The Observer Wednesday, August 28, 1985-page 4 
Court upholds porno definition 
Indianapolis Mayor William Hud­the work judged as a whole," Eas­nut III and city officials responsible terbrook said. "It is irrelevant under 
CHICAGO -Tuesday a federal ap­for enforcement of the ordinance the ordinance whether the work has peals court panel unanimously up­were named as defendants in the literary, artistic, political, or scien­held a lower court ruling that an case . tific value." Indianapolis ordinance defining por­. The defendants will make no deci­Easterbrook questioned how the nography as a violation of women's sion on further appeal until they Indianapolis ordinance would treat civil rights is unconstitutional. have received a copy ofthe decision, works ranging from james joyce's 
In the decision affirming a Nov. said Katherine Watson, one of two "Ulysses" to Homer's "Iliad," both of 19, 1984, ruling by U.S. District defense attorneys. which, he said, "depict women as judge Sarah Evans Barker, the three­In writing the opinion for the ap­submissive objects for conquest and judge panel of the 7th U.S. Circuit pellate court panel, Judge George domination." Court of Appeals agreed the Easterbrook noted the Indianapolis municipal ordinance constituted a ordinance defined pornography as Under the ordinance, Easterbrook violation offree speech rights. considerably different from said, speech that was "disapproved" 
The plaintiffs in the case were six "obscenity," which the U.S. Supreme would be unlawful no matter how trade associations representing Court has held is not protected un­significant its artistic or political
To buy, or not 
"virtually all the book and magazine der First Amendment guarantees of value, while "speech treating 
junior Pete Cespedes cbecks out tbe art atyesterday's Stepan Mall. publishers and distributors in the free speech. women in the approved way ... is country," said their attorney, Burton The ordinance "demands atten­lawful no matter how sexually ex­
Tbe sale, sponsored by tbe Student Activities Board, continues 
joseph. tion to particular depictions, not to plicit."
today until 5 p.m. 
United States experiences decrease in number of poor 
AuoclatedPress line. The poverty rate in 1983 was from 12.3 percent to 11.8 percent, families are smaller on average, with cent to 33.8 percent for blacks. 
15.3percent, or 35.5 million people. according to bureau records. fewer people sharing the same Among Hispanics, the rate was un­
WASHINGTON -Yesterday, the The poverty threshhold for an ur­At the same time the poverty rate amount ofmoney. changed at about 28 percent. government said the United States ban family offour was U 0,609 last was falling, median family income .as Other major findings in the new •two-earner families, about 42 per­experienced its first significant year, up from $10,178 a year earlier. growing by 3.3 percent to $26,430 report included: •the poverty rate cent of all families, had a median decline in poverty in nearly a decade The rate is slightly lower for rural last year. That was the second annual among people aged 65 and over income of $31,710, compared with last year, as the improving economy families. increase, following some years of dropped sharply, falling 1.8 $20,290 for one-earner families. helped 1.8 million Americans climb The drop in poverty had been declining real income in the face of percentage points to 12.4 percent •the poverty rate declined in the above the poverty level. widely anticipated, and even critics intlation and recession. last year. Increases in Social Security South and the West, while there 
"There was a very significant in­ofthe Reagan administration had ex­and Supplemental Security Incomer were no significant changes in the crease in income and decrease in pected a significant improvement. That income figure is nearly the benefits may have accounted for Northeast and Midwest. poverty in 1984," said Gordon W. The U.S. conference of Mayors same as the median family income of this, Green said. The rate for the South in 1984 was Green Jr., who is in charge of said in a statement that it was 126,480 reported for 1975, but 16.2 percent, compared with 17.2 socioeconomic statistics for the pleased the report "shows some Green cautioned against defining •among children under age 18, the percent in 1983. For the West it was Census Bureau. progress in some areas." But it added this as a stagnant income level. poverty rate declined from 22.2 per­13.1 percent in 1984, down from 
"Economic recovery and (the that poverty "continues at an unac­cent in 1983 to 21.3 percent. The 14.7 percent. reduced level of) intlation are im­ceptably high rate." Although the constant dollar rate among white children fell from portant factors in the continuing Although there were small figure is similar, he said, there have 17.5 percent to 16.5 percent, while The Northeast had a 13.2 percent decline ofpoverty," he said. declines in poverty in 1977 and been significant changes in families it was unchanged for blacks at 46.5 poverty rate in 1984, compared 
Green said the national poverty 1978, before the sharp increases of over the same period. The result is ·percent. with 13.4 percent in 1983 and the rate declined nearly one percentage the last few years began, the last sig­more families headed by females •the overall poverty rate for whites Midwest had 14.1 percent last year, point to 14.4 percent, or 33.7 mil­nificant drop came between 1975 without husbands, and more single dropped from 12.2 percent to 11.5 compared with 14.6 percent in _lion people living below the poverty and 1976 when poverty dropped people living alone, meaning that percent, while it fell from 35.7 per-1983. 
CAN YOU AFFORD 
TO 
PASS UP LUNCH at 
The 
Legendary Faculty Dining Room 
New New 

BUFFET SERVICE 
(Grand Opening) Starting Aug.27, 1985-11:30-1:15 p.m. 
Come to dine by two's and we will Pay for one -Opening Day only 

***************** 
$2.99 Buffet 
***************** 
Another Innovative New Service to the Community For Information Call-Host John Gerrity ... 7518 
---~----~-­

The Observer Wednesday, August 28, 1985 -page 5 




South African leader 
Marine killers are dead: Duarte 
jailed on eve of protest
As!IOCiatcd Press San Salvador have been identified later identified those arrested and and are being sought. the suspect killed as members of SAN SALVADOR -Three leftist A rebel group, the Central the Central American Revolution­
Associated Press by the Internal Security Act, police 
guerrilla-; suspected of participat­ing in a cafe massacre in which four 
li.S. marines were killed have been arrested and a fourth is dead, Presi­dent Jose Napoleon Duarte said yesterday. 
At a news conference, Duarte read a letter he sent to President Reagan advising him of the arrests. 
He said other guerrillas who took part in the June 19 killings of I 3 people at two sidewalk cafes in 

Transfers 
continuedfrom page I 
housing often are faced with a long wait. 
"At the very beginning it wasn't too had," said Maureen McDonnell, who transferred last fall from James Madison University. But, she said, life off campus often is difficult for a transfer because of the residential character of Notre Dame. 
"It is so hard to meet people off 
l·ampus. I felt like an outcast," 
McDonnell said. "They (many trans­
fers) fed like they are just taking 
dao;.o;es here. 
"Living off (campus) isn~t bad at 
all, it is just when you live off and 
don't know anybody," said McOon­
ndl. 
Although McDonnell received on­
campus housing this semester, she 
said the wail was difficult. "It's 
ridiculous to have someone wait a 
year or more before getting on 
campus," she said. "I felt like they 
were giving me the runaround," she 
said, explaining her number on the American Revolutionary Worker's Party, claimed responsibility for the night-time attacks on the cafes in the Zona Rosa entertainment district. 
Uuarte and members of the military high command, who flanked the president at the news conference at the executive man­sion, refused to say when, where or how the three were captured. A government communique 
waiting list fluctuated· upward, not just downward. 
Other students accept the housing situation, although hoping for a change. 
"I'd like to get on campus but you have to live with the incon­venience," said Pat Butler, a transfer this semester from Holy Cross 
Junior College. 
Another problem is that transfer students are accepted late: after the majority of the University's financial aid already has been distributed. University policy dictates that academic scholarships only be given 
to  transfers after  a  year  at  Notre  
Dame.  
Transfers  do  not  face  these  

problems entirely without student support. 
Transfer orientation, like campus­wide freshman orientation, is a yearly event at Notre Dame. The transfer co-chairmen, Mark Facer and Mark Rabogliatti, coordinated such events as a welcome Mass, a welcome luncheon and a non­alcoholic party at Senior Bar. 
"The purpose of transfer orienta­tion is to get the students to meet ary Workers' Party, known by its Spanish initials as the PRTC. It is the smallest offive guerrilla groups in the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front coalition that is battling the U.S. backed governmnent. 
Duarte's letter to Reagan praised the U.S. government for providing "efficient and disinterested aid" to Salvadoran authorities in tracking down the suspects. · 
each other," said Rabogliatti, himself 
a transfer student. 
It is necessary that transfer stu­
dents make an extra effort to be out­
going, said Rabogliatti. "It's very 
discoraging at first," he said, but the 
extra effort is necessary to 
overcome cliques in the dorms. 
Although the official orientation is 
over, Rabogliatti said the Adopt-a­
Transfer program is a good way for 
transfers to become a part of on­
campus life. 
The program is in its second year 
and Rabogliatti said he anticipates a 
grearer turnout than last year. A 
representative in each dorm will at­
tempt to match up interested on­
campus students with transfers. 
Sept. 7 is the target date to start the 
program. 
The Transfer Club was organized 
by student government last spring. 
The club has its own budget, said 
President Mike Huber, also a transfer 
student. 
Social issues and the need for bet­
ter information distribution are on 
the agenda for the club, said Huber. 
The club will have a booth at Ac­
tivities Night at Stepan Center on 
Sept. 2. 

headquarters in Pretoria said. 

CAPE TOWN, South Africa -Rev. In Washington, the State Depart­Allan 'Boesak, one of the nation's ment condemned the arrest and most outspoken foes of apartheid, made a protest to the South African was jailed yesterday on the eve of a government. mass protest march. He planned to In Geneva, Switzerland, the World lead to Pollsmoor Prison where Nel­Alliance of Reformed Churches son Mandda is serving a life term. called Boesak's detention "a 
Boesak's lawyer said the march manifestation of intolerance on the today would go ahead as planned part of the South African govern­despite the detention of Boesak and ment" and demanded his release. despite government warnings that it The statement was issued jointly by would act to halt the illegal as­the alliance and the World Council sembly. ofChurches. 
Mandela, black leader of the A fiery and eloquent opposition banned African National Congress, leader with a strong personal follow­has been in prison since 1964, con­ing, Boesak risked arrest when he an­victed ofplotting sabotage. nounced the planned illegal march 
Boesak, 39, is of mixed race and is to Pollsmoor. Outdoor political gat­president of the 70 million-member herings have been banned since World Alliance of Reformed 1976. Churches. He was arrested at a The white government warned roadblock near the University of the Saturday that Boesak's march, which Western Cape, where he serves as he said would draw 20,000 people, chaplain. He was detained in­was illegal and said pollee would definitely without charge as allowed take "stern action" to stop it. 
tacted by University officials con­
cerning off-campus parties. 
"I have not discussed this with 
anyone from the administration," he 


Parties 
continuedfrom page I 
said. "In fact, the closest I have ever they are responding to a complaint come is using a University directory from someone in the neighborhood. to check up on phony identification 
"You might eliminate some of cards." your problems if you talk to your neighbors a couple of days before Lawrence said he was not the party and explain how long the surprised by the officers' announce­party will last," Williams said. "But ments ofstricter enforcement. often parties are so loud, especially "I think what they said was similar when there is a band playing, that to what the administration wa'i the complaint comes from blocks saying with the alcohol policy: 'Ifthe away." party becomes a public situation, 
Another option police mentioned then there has to be crack down.' " was having the party during the day. Trusela said he might ask the of­
"Before I 0 p.m., the legal level for ficers to answer student questions at noise is 62 decibels, so we won't a forum on campus sometime in the issue a ticket until the 72 decibel future. level is reached," Badics said. "Even "It's still a very rough Idea, but I'd in the day, however, you can be · like to have them on campus to ex­charged with the other violations." plain to the students what they ex­
Badics said he has never been con-plained to us today." 
: ALL THE NEWS : 
: THAT'S • •
! • FIT TO PRINT • • • •• • GET THE NY TIMES ••• 
• CALL JAMIE AT 283-2043 •
•............................: 
Sunshine Promotions Present 
The Guitar VIrtuoso Is coming to South ~ndll 
Friday, September 6 8:00p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium 
A11seats reserved $13 .00 
Tickets available at the Century Center loxOffice, Night Winds !Niles and Mishawaka), J.R.'s (La Porte) and SUpersounds (Ilkhart). 
•••Don't mluthe hoHest 




----------~-----------­
r 
r 




r ~i~~~_()__i_Jl___t________________w_ed-ne-sd_~_,A-ug-us-t2-8,_19-85--p-age...
r 6 
r
, 
r
, 
r 
ND transfer students 
r 
r 

are part of family 
For the Notre Dame Class of 1989, the welcome wagon has been rolling arqund the quads for several days now. The new freshman class has had picnics, volleyball games, mixers, and more. When the freshmen arrived with their parents, the rectors and their staffwere there to welcome them. Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, and other top administrators greeted the newc?mers. The returning students were there to help them unload thetr cars, unpack their baggage, and decorate their rooms. All was as it should be. 
The freshmen, though, are not the only new arrivals on this campus. For approximately 200 transfer students, the wel~ome was better than in previous years; however, the transfers wtll have a rough ride ahead of them when the welcome wagon stops rolling. 
All transfers must live off campus until housing on campus becomes available. This can take months, even years. Neither the incoming transfers nor the Notre Dame administration know how long it will take to get these newcomers into dorm rooms. Transfer students must wait until all freshmen in study lounges have proper housing. Then transfers who request on-campus housing add their names to a waiting list and wait, and wait and wait. 
The administration should clarify and strictly enforce the process by which transfer students receive on-campus housing. Transfer students have complained offluctuating waiting lists. The process is further complicated because the number of students who leave Notre Dame and thus create on-campus rooms, varies. To wait is expected, but it is uncalled for to wait without reliable information. 
The administration must be realistic in informing transfers what life off campus will be like. Notre Dame stresses residential life. Few students live off campus. Many transfers have little conception. of the difficulties they will face in assi~ilating into the communtty. The simple fact is that most students hve on campus because that ts where their classes and friends are located. 
Ifanyone should understand the problem oftransfer students, the leaders of student government should. Bill Healy, student body president, is a transter student. Student government should expand its involvement in transfer adjustment. Using existing student government programs, such as Adopt-A-Transfer, student govern­ment leaders should send transfers regular bulletins concerning on­campus activities and create events for off-campus students to meet wid'i other students, regardless oftheir residency. The new Transfer Club, established last spring, is a good idea that student government could make better. The club will need more than the $200 ap­propriated, and student government should attempt to find a way to provide future funding. 
The greatest and the easiest solution to many of the transfer stu­dent's problems is for all students, both at Notre Dame and at Saint Mary's, to welcome them by inviting the transfers to share lunch, to stop by the dorm after class and by making them a part of campus life. Students must remember that Notre Dame may be made of many different segments, but the community only will be whole ifit makes the transfers a part of Notre Dame. 
-The Observer 


Students are important to ND government 
As we sit here getting ready to go out and party with the rest of·the seniors, we just thought we would give our warped idea of what student government is all about. After a . year in which student government was destroyed, we promised a fresh approach. Here it is: We do not take ourselves too seriously; only our responsbilities seriously. We are just students who are trying to make a difference. Student government is only cli­quish if we let it be.lfyou storm us with your good ideas, intelligent criticisms, and stop up now and then (second floor LaFortune) with your problems, (and we hope you do), then we, in turn, promise to be more than just the butt of all the lunchtime jokes. 
Healy & Lawrence guest column 
We promise to let you know what we are doing. Chuck Beretz, our newsletter editor-in­chief promises some interesting insights into all that student government is involved. Kevin Lanier promises to let you know where all of our social events are (i.e. parties thrown by Duane and Bill). Of a more serious nature, John Dettline and Pat Baccanari will keep you updated on the University's Investment Policy with regards to South African investments. We have people working on minority concerns, cultural concerns and alcohol-related con­cerns as well. In fact, if you're concerned about something related to your life here at Notre Dame and we do not already have someone checking into it, then you just let us know and we will get right on it. 
We encourage you to participate. Par­ticipate in class events, hall events and Stu­dent Activities Board events. Just think, Saint Patrick's Day, Halley's comet and a variety of out-of-this world events are coming. Ann Marie Kollman, student body president at Saint Mary's has promised an exciting year across the road and we encourage you to par­ticipate with them as well. You the students will make it an exciting year; we will try and help out. Ifwe have one goal this year, we would like to 
make the student voice a united voice which can have a real impact on student life. If stu­dents perform to their potential, then we can prove to the administration that we deserve a real voice. Once again, that is up to you. We can only do so much, but with you on our side there is unlimited possibility. After all, we are told from day one that we are the "best and the brightest." Now let's prove it! In October, we have the opportunity to go before the Board of Trustees and present to them the needs and views of the students; your view, not just ours. Ifyou truly are concerned, then help us to make this meeting a turning point for students. 
So, as you see, our hopes are high. With help from all the student groups on campus: clubs, classes, the media, S.A.B., the hall presidents and the student body, we have a unique op­portunity · the opportunity to change the per­ception of students. This change, by administration, faculty and rectors, is an awesome responsibility which will not occur in one year. But we can make a start. 
What is needed for the students is legitimate ways to be heard on campus; be it a senate, a campus life council, or even pos­sibily a student member on the Board ofTrus­tees. What is important to remember is that the primary responsibility of a University is its students. Educating students in all ways, not just through academics, is the key to any great institution. Educating students on leadership through real responsibility, educating stu­dents on alcohol by allowing them to drink responsibly and educating students to be adults by treating them as such is crucial. 
Those are the ideals we have for student government. We want, need and are asking for your support. We will not succeed without it. Please realize that we are trying to represent your concerns. Ifwe can help you in any way, please let us know. Anyway, we thank you very much for giving us the opportunity to be where we are. We are ever indebted to the students of Notre Dame. Best wishes for a memorable year. 
Bill Healy is the student body president of Notre Dame and Duane Lawrence is the stu­dent body vice president. 


99.9 PERCENT 
That is the percentage of letters to the editor that we print.Write us. 
Joe Murphy, Viewpoint Editor P.O.BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 465 56 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

IT SfZMS 'rOOf<& ON A 7HR.£5H­
OH,H£LL NO, NO, GO ON! 
OW, RESTRAIN£/), Yf3Tf?ESTLES5. 
/A/HATAMI YOU ALMOST 
AUOAOOUS IN YOUR. HANOUNG 
WOKJN6AF GOT IT1 
OF.. UH.. !<NOW.. 7Ht.. UH. 



Quote of the day 
"Happiness is a by­product of an effort to make someone else happy." 
Gretta BrookerPalmer 
( 1905-1953) 
Permanent Marriage 

Editorial Board  Operations Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239·5~3  
Ed1tor-in-Ch1ef  Sarah E. Hamilton  Busmess Manager. .  Dav•d Steohenrtc~  
The Observer is the independent newpaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communtty. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, 1S encouraged  Managtng Ed1tor. News Ed1tor . . News Editor. Saint Mary·s Execuflve Ed1tor Sports Editor Accent Ed1tor Viewpotnt Edlfor . Photography Ed1tor . Copy Chief  Amy Stephan Ke1th Harrison Jr. Dan McCullough Theresa Guanno ... Jeff Blumb Mary Healy Joe Murphy Peter C. Laches Frank L1po  Advert1s1ng Manager .....Jim Hagan Controller. B1ll H1ghducheck Systems Manager. Mark B Johnson ProduCtion Manager . John A Men'lel Founded November 3,1966  



Sports Briefs 
Prospective ND baseball players will be meeting today at 5 p.m. In the football auditorium in the ACC. Anyone Interested in trying out for the team should attend and bring a pen or pencil. · The Obsi!rwr 
The ND rowing club will have a general meeting for all returning members tonight at 7 p.m. in 123 Nieuwland. -The Obsen>er. 
The ND water polo club will hold an organiza­tional meeting for any interested players tonight in Rm. 218 of the Rockne Memorial building. For information contact Tom O'Reilly in 328 Morrissey.-The Obsen'er 
The ND women's soccer club will be having open practice today and Friday at 4 p.m. and tomorrow at 4:30p.m. on the Stepan Fields. All arc welcome. For information call Karen 
~oritz at 1362. -The Obsen,er. 
Wednesday, August 28, 1985-page 7 
The ND rugby club wm hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. on the first floor ofLaFortune. The team will begin practice on Monday at 4:1 c; p.m. on the Stepan Fields. All are welcome -no experiece is necessary.. The Observer 
ND men's volleyball players who played on last year's team are required to attend a meeting on Friday at 4 p.m. in LaFortune's Little Theater. -The Observer. 
Women's sports competitions in softball, 
soccer, tennis, golfand running (5K)will be part ofRun, Jane, Run, a women-in-sports weekend, which will be held by the YWCA Sept. 13 through Sept. 15. Representatives will distribute information today and tomorrow from 4:30p.m. to 6:30p.m. at the entrance to SAGA at Saint Mary's. Information and entry forms also will be available at the NVA office in the ACC until Sept. 6. -The ObsenJer 
Prospective sports writers who are interested 
in The Observer should attend a meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in The Observer office, on the third floor of LaFortune. -The Observer. 
Pool 
continuedfrom page U 
While the new pool will become the main swimming facility at Notre Dame, it will not completely replace the Rockne Memorial pool. Accord­ing to Stark both pools will be utilized fully for both educational and recreational purposes. 
"It'll give the students much more opportunity for lap swimming or recreational swimming," says Stark. " With the Rock still here and the new pool, it's going to open it up for students to take advantage of it (the pool) at different times -whereas, in the past, they had to be restricted to 45 minutes here or several hours there." 

The Ohserr•t•r :'l;otrc Dam" otfkc. lot·atcd on thl' third Ooor ol l.al'orlunt· ~!udcnl Cemn. accept• classified ad\'t>flisin~: from') a.m. umil ·t p.m...\Iunday throu~:h Frida\ The 0/>st'TI'er Saini Man·'s offin·. I<Kalt·d on tht· third Ooor of llaggar C.ollegt· Ct·mcr. anTp!s cla"ifieds from llo.~O p m umil .~p.m. Mon· dav though hida\ lkadlinl' li1r next-day da"itkds is .~ p m All dassifit·ds 
·must he prt·paid. t'ilhl'r 111 pn"m or h\ mail Chargt· I' I 0 cl'nts pn fin· t·harac



Classifieds 
1ers ndav. 
NOTICES 
$10·$360 Weekly/Up M111hng C1rculara1 No -/quotu' S1ncerety 1nlllf81ted ruoh oetf-oddfeoeed envelope: Dept. AM­7CEG, PO Box 830. Woodotock, IL 
600116 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
... 

IIAIKETI, IIUQI AND POTIEIIY PLUI LOn OF UNIQUE JEWEUIY, CLOTHEI AND BOOKI. THE IT. FIIANCII IHOPPE, BEHIND FAnMA RI!TREAT CENTEII, NOTRE DAME. 
SAVE $$$ ON YOUR TEXTS" USED CLASS BOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLO PRESENT THIS AD AND RECEIVE AN EXTRA $5 OFF OF $50 PURCHASE. PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 SO BEND AVE. 233-2342 TYPING CALL CHRII234-81117 
FOR RENT 
APARTMENT FOR RENT PERFECT FOR GRAD. STUDENT. t-1/2 BEDROOM. ALL UTILITIES, STOVE AND REFRIG. FURNISHED EASY WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. ONE YEAR'S LEASE. NO PETS OR CHILDREN. $275/MONTH. $200 DAMAGE DEPOSIT REFERENCES REQUIRED. CALL232-t405DAYS: 2n­0151 EVENINGS. 
5-bdrm houoe, hall m1le I rom campuo. 19095 Cleveland $160/mo./p.....,n Cail J1m 2n-2194 or 674-6595. 
FOR SALE 
PORTABLE ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER, EXCEUENT CONDITION. CAU JIM AT 239-m&. DAYS ONLY. 
RUST BROWN RUG FOR SALE CALL KIM AT4205 
3FT WD ROLL UPS. RUST AND GREEN CARPET. CALL2879341. 
ETHAN ALLEN Rockllf·Recl1ner Beol 01­lllf233-9nO 
TICKETS 
NEED 4 MICH. ST. TIX 272-2454 
...................................... 
WANTED: 2 TIX FOR U OF M GAME AT 
ANN ARBOR ROBERT AT 256-9346. 

WIUING TO TRADE LSU, MISS, ARMY NAVY FOR MSU. CALL SCOTI t924. 
PLEASE. I REALLY NEED 2·3 TICKETS FOR THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WIUING TO PAY ANY$$$$$. PLEASE CAU SCOTI AT 272-9518. 
PERSONALS 
PRISON INMATE WISHES TO COR­RESPOND WITH A COLLEGE STU­DENT. PLEASE WRITE: NELSON BASTIC, t26t7-083 3901 KLEIN BLVD. LOMPOC, CA 93436 
HI I'M JAMIE OBRIEN AND I AM IN CHARGE OF DELIVERY OF THE NEW YORK TIMES. IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SUBSCRIBE GIVE ME A CALL283-2043 IAJNT LOUII CLUB MEMIIEM ­Welcome beck!!!!-Your officero. 
PllfUvian law otudent oeeking IMnaia pen pai to exchange i-about both cuhureo and eotllblloh lnandohipo. PIMM write: M01oeo Antonio Lopez, 330 Garman Amezaga, Urb. Benavideo. Lima 1 PllfU 
ATIENnON IENIORS II mited apace otiR available lor I he 
lENlOR CLAII 
BAHAMAS TRIP Oct. 19-25. FuM payment -$460 -due no i&lllf than Fri., Aug. 30, at tot Source Travel ofliceo (Badin, Declo, Haggar Col· lege Cntr.). Don't mioo out on thio FUN TRIP 10 lhe BAHAMAS. 
ATIENllON IENIORSII Final payment ol $310 for Senior Claoo BAHAMAS Trip due immediately. Make payment at tot Source Travel officee (Badin, Declo, Hag­gar College Cntr.). Don't looe your depooit. 
Not1ce to whoevllf otole the couch lrom li,..l floor ol Fiohllf: You're oUting on dned urine. Why do you think it wu out in the hail anyway? 
intereoted in intllf·Va,..ny Chriotian Fet­loMhip? Gall Sheila 1884, Kevin t883 
VERMIN' Don't miu lhio opportunity to save. I'M clean up your m-lor $15. Thal'o a whopping $10 off the houoelee. Don't heoitate--blow chow NOW and 
uve. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-200 30 dayo 1/intllfHt tt:30-12:30M-F LaFortune Buamenl 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO TIM ARNOLD, THE BEST COW AND PIG FEEDER I EVERMETIIII 
HI MARIA AND THANKS FOR BEING MY DAY EDITOR TODAY 

UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES NEEDS 
A 

FEW AMBITIOUS STUDENTS 


POSITIONS AVAILABLE Waiters Waitresses Bartenders Attendants Casual Employment Catering Positions 
Apply to: Delores-North Dining Hall (6176) jean-South Dining Hall (6147) Pat-Huddle(7157) 
By providingyour name and social security number, we will clearfinancial aidfor you. 
-


,.....................~------~~------------------------------~----------------~.----------~~----~­
The Observer Wednesday, August 28, 1985-page 8 
Oklahoma rated No. 1 in 1985 AP preseason poll 
Auburn second, ND Switzer: Tough slate 14th in AP rankings will hurt our chances 
Associated PressAssociated Press 

The Oklahoma Sooners, who were ready to claim the NORMAN, Okla. -The Oklahoma Sooners may be 1984 national championship had they beaten Was­rated No. 1 now but Coach Barry Switzer says he hington in the Orange Bowl, are the preseason choice wouldn't be surprised to see his club fall down the list. to win it all in 1985 while defending champion Brigham The reason is not his team. It's the schedule. 
Young just made the Top Ten. "With the late start we've got, you can be fairly 
In wide-open balloting, with 1 0 of the I05 Division assured we'll not have played a game and fall out ofthe I-A teams receiving at least one first-place vote, Ok­top spots," Switzer says. lahoma outdistanced Auburn, last year's preseason pick Oklahoma doesn't play until Sept. 28 at Minnesota in the Associated Press poll, which began in 1936. due to a schedule change. The Sooners were originally 
Notre Dame was ranked 14th in the poll, which was supposed to open two weeks earlier against third­released late last week. ranked Southern Methodist, but the game was moved to Dec. 7 for television. 
The Sooners received 23 of 60 first-place votes and History also says Switzer is right. Since the AP began 1,090 of a possible 1,200 points from a nationwide its preseason poll in 1950, only six teams ranked No. 1 panel of sports writers and sportscasters. Auburn at the start have won the national championship. Three received 13 first-place votes and 1,027 points in ballot­times that team has been Oklahoma, in 1956, 1974 and ing results announced Saturday night. 1975. 
The preseason poll also raised the possibility that a "It just raises the expectations ofyour fans. It creates team on probation could win the national champion­so much anticipation and they feel so disappointed ship since there are two such teams among the top five. when it doesn't happen," Switzer said of being ranked Southern Methodist is third with three first-place bal­No. 1. "They ought to know that unbeaten seasons just lots and 924 points, followed by Iowa, with seven firsts don't happen much any more." and 837 points, and Florida, with four firsts and 788 Oklahoma received 23 of 60 first-place votes and points. 1,090 of a possible 1,200 points in the preseason poll, 
Both SMU of the Southwest Conference and Florida chosen by sports writers and sportscasters. Second­of the Southeastern Conference are ineligible for their rated Auburn received 13 first-place votes and 1,027 league championships, nor can they go to a bowl game points in balloting results announced last Saturday this year. night. 
Rounding out the Top ~en are sixth-place Southern The late start means Oklahoma will be able to forego California with two first-place votes and 754 points; two-a-day drills, something Switzer said will be a plus. Maryland, three and 738; Ohio State, 709; Nebraska, "The players are fresher and you get more out of the 676, and BYU with one first-place ballot and 608 points. practices," he said. "Two-a-days are a tremendous strain 
The remaining four first-place votes were split bet­on the athletes." ween Illinois, No. 11, and Washington, No. 12. Oklahoma bead football coacb Barry Switzer cbats He said, however, that he's worried about the 
Oklahoma Coach Barry Switzer, whose Sooners witb running backEarljobnson during a practice ses­Sooners' early opponents. finished sixth last year, isn't thrilled to be No. 1 this sion in Norman, Okla. The Sooners, wbo were ready to ''I'm concerned about two games: Minnesota and early, but noted "we've all got to start somewhere. claim tbe national cbampionsbip bad tbey beaten the Kansas State," he said. "I've said those two teams will There are just a lot ofunknowns about our team. Washington Huskies in last year's Orange Bowl, are have more of an advantage on us than Texas. When we 
Illinois is No. 11 in this year's preseason poll, while the preseason cboice to win it all in college football play Texas it'll be their third game and our third game. Washington is No. 12 and LSU No. 13. Trailing the No. tbis year, according to a recent Associated Press poll. "But when we play Minnesota it'll be our first game 14 Irish are Arkansas, Oklahoma State, South Carolina, Notre Dame was ranked 14tb in tbe poll. and their third. They're liable to be 2-0 when they play Penn S~te, Florida State and UCLA. us. Kansas State will have played four games. 
._.•••.•._.....................,J'rl',_.......,.••v.:-.·.·.·.-.·.....-.-.-.y.•J~.W.-.-.-.·.-.·.-.·.•J'Jfh·····...-...-.·.·tiV'·Y··"'· 
The Student Activities Board Presents: 

STEPAN MALL 
Tuesday, August 27 9:00-5:00 Wednesday, August 28 9:00-5:00 
• Refrigerator Rentals • School Supplies 
eLumber for your Loft and.Shelves (Circle Lumber) (Irish Gardens) ecarpet -all colors and sizes QCPenney) eNewspapers 
eFurniture and Knick Knacks ~Interior Concepts & Finishing Touches) 
PRICED AFFORDABLY FORYOUR BUDGET 
-
GET INVOLVED!!! 
..........., ..............,•••-.-.-••••,....wf'.·········*"--··········'·····•JY'J'J'J'J'............J'.•.•J'.-.....,...-............................................,.J'.................., 

The Observer Wednesday~ August 28, 1985-page 9 


Santana's title defense highlights ACC wrestling 
By MIKE CARDINALE 
Sports Writer 
The spectacle of professional wrestling returned to the ACC last night for the second time this sum­mer in an six-bout card highlighted by the successful WWF Intercon­tinental Heavyweight tide defense of Tito Santana against Greg "The Hammer" Valentine. In the main event, Santana was cheered on with cries of "Tito" by a crowd of over 4,800 as he sought to defend the tide that he wrested from Valentine in July. 
Santana got off to a quick start bv. 
applying three successive spinning toe holds that had "The Hammer" reeling. To avoid a quick pin, Valentine was forced to resort to a highly illegal, but usually unen­forced, choke hold. This was the first turning point in the match, as Valentine then gained the upper hand with a devastating piledriver and the famed figure-four leglock. 
Spurred on by a screaming crowd, Santana reached fur an inner reserve of strength and fought off six con­secutive pin attempts by Valentine. He escaped a figure-four leglock and managed to climb out of the ring to regain his senses. 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 

The Observer Photo Staff Needs YOU *Many paid positions available *B&W darkroom exp. crucial *Own equipment necessary 
Pick up an application and job description at the Observer office, Jrd floor LaFortune 

CHICAGO TRIB 
DORM DELIVERY 

$22.00 7 days/ week all semester 
(Saint Mary's included) 
For more info call TIM 283-2163 

The lkriversity of Notre Dame Department of Cormurication and Theatre annoc.R:es 
Auditions 

for the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre production of 
End or the World 
by Arthur~ 

Ttvsday, August 29 at 7:JO pm. Friday, August 30 at 7:30pm 
at the 

Washington Hall Main Theatre 
auditions are open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students no experience Is necessa~ y no prepa-ed monologue Is required 
call-backs will be Slrlday, September I, at 1:00pm. for Information call 239-51341 
AUDITIONSAUDITIONSAUDITIONS 
When he returned to the ring. the look of sheer determination on Tlto's face was too much for Valentine to bear. When "The Ham­mer" made a last-ditch attempt at a piledriver on the ring apron, Santana reversed the move and pinned Valentine at the 19:13 mark in the match. 
The champion was confident before the match as he stated that he would not play a defensive role In defending his tide. 
"The challenger Is always the agressor In this business," Santana said, "but I won't sit back and let him come at me." 
Santana intends to hold on to the belt for as long as he can,. and he wants to stay In wrestling "fur at least five more years." He feels that quickness Is his major asset, and it will enable him to defend his tide successfully. 
In other World Wide Wrestling Federation action last night, the referee took a beating In the match between "The Polish Power," Ivan Putski and Adrian Adonis. Adonis was outclassed throughout the match, as Putski seemed to be toying 
with the veteran wrestler from New 
York City. 
Adonis became frustrated with 
the crowd's support of Putskl, and 
he decided to vent his frustrations 
on the helpless referee. After 
gnawing at the refs nose, Adonis 
picked him up and bodyslammed 
him across the ring. He was lm· 
mediately disqualified at the 12:28 
mark ofthe match. 
In preliminary matches, George Wells pinned Iron Mike Sharpe in a closely-contested match with a shoulder smash off the ropes at the 
13:48 mark. A dive bomb off the top rope enabled the Missing Unk to pin WWF newcomer Steve Gatorwolf In under eight minutes. 
Also, King Kong Bundy devastated Tony Garea with his specialty, the Atlantic City Avalanche. Garea was distracted throughout the match by Bundy's manager, "The Mouth ofthe South,"Jimmy Hart. 
After his victory, the 453-pound wrestler from Atlantic City, N.J., grabbed the microphone from the ring announcer and taunted WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan. 
Sport or entertainment? 
Wrestling's popularity a mystery 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
The lights dim, the music blares, and the crowd screams. Through the spotlight strides a well-muscled, blonde-haired man wearing skin tight pants. A typical rock concert, right? Wrong, It's professional wres­ding, and It's booming In popularity. Over the course of the past two years, pro wrestling Is attracting sold-out crowds and raking In big dollars. The question Is: Is pro wres­ding sport or entertainment, real or or a hoax? 
Last night, the ACC hosted its second pro card In three months · a World Wrestling Federation tour that attracted 21,000 fans In Montreal on Its last stop and close to 5,000 fans to the ACC last night. ACC Program Manager Joe Sassano points the success of this spring's closed circuit televisingof'Wresdemania' at Stepan Center as the reason for wrestling at the ACC. 
"We originally planned to sell 4,000 tickets to the closed circuit broadcast, but we had to turn twice as many away. At theJune match, we had a crowd of about about four to five thousand. If we can the same or bigger size tonight, we'll try to schedule It again, providing the audience doesn't get out ofhand and try to become the show." 
The guiding force behind the resurgance in pro wrestling's success is Vince McMahon of the World Wrestling Federation. Ac· cording to Tito Santana, the Inter· continental Champion, McMahon branched out from the east coast, wrestling's traditional stronghold, 
into a national market. Wrestling • Goonies' was cast almost ex· 
shows can be fuund on many local television stations as well as the now famous Tuesday Night Titans on the USA cable network. Locally, wres­tling can be seen on WSBT channel 22 at 10:30 on Saturday night. 
"Champioship wrestling has been on since April. At first the show 
W!!!!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!-!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1 
Saint Mary's students! 
Need to publicize an event? Need to place a classified ad? Have a coDipliDient or gripe? 


Seaior Club 


available at door for $18 until August 31 September 1 it will be $20 

'That's what's going to happen to Hulk Hogan when he gets Into the ring with me,' shouted Bundy amidst a chorus ofboos from the crowd. 
The final match of the evening was a tag·team affair, pitting The Iron Shiek and Nikolai Volkoff against The British Bulldogs, Davey Boy Smith and The Dynamite Kid. Volkoffbegan the match as he begins every match, by singing the Russian National Anthem. 
The atonal rendition did not help the anti-American team against the Bulldogs, however. After fighting off bearhugs and backbreakers, the team from England trapped the Iron Shlek in their corner. While Davey Boy Smith pinned the Shlek's arms, The Dynamite Kid leapt off the top rope and administered a flying head· butt, stunning the Shiek and leading to an easy three-count. 
The time of the last match was 
10:42. During the intermission last night, WWF officials announced that the next ACC wrestling card would be held on October 27, although the schedule Is yet to be determined. 

I 
elusively by wrestlers. Former 
wrestler and WWF coordinator fur 
last night's event downplayed this 
connection. 
"Wrestling was around long 
befure rock music. The reason fur 
wrestling's Increasing popularity Is 
that the WWF went out and spent a 
lot of money to get the best 
wrestlers under contraCt." 
The question remains though. Is 
this sport or show business? Santana 
holds the former view. 
"Some guys like Jesse 'The Body' 
Ventura put some show business 
Into It, but to me It's a sport. I don't 
really care about people that say this 
Is fake." 
Notre Dame varsity strength and 
conditioning coach Gary Weil, an j 
avowed fanatic, ranks pro wrestlers ~ 
among the top athletes around. 
"Even if their Is some amount of 
chicanery involved, these guys need 
to be In top condition to do some of 
the things they do. When you con­
lsider the age of some of the wrestlers, Its even more Incredible." 
But what of the fans, what do they think of wrestling? Santana calls wrestling fans the greatest in the world. 
"Some nights its really hard to go out there and wrestle but as soon as you walk out and the fans roar, you can do anything." 
The fans, themselves, add to the excitement at the match by taunting the bad guys, cheering the good guys. Cups of Ice flying Into the ring are not uncommon. They don't care that everything they see Isn't fur real. 
The bottom line on pro wrestling may be its value as an escape from the pressures and routine of every day life. While the fans acknowledge that its not what It seems, they don't care. As Well put It, "Reality Isn't al­ways the greatest thing." 
didn't have good ratings, but when it found its audience, it took off," says Skip Gassensmlth, Pegram Director at WSBT. 
According to Gassensmith in the July, 1985, Arbitron Ratings, Cham­plonship Wrestling attracted a 35 percent share of the· TV viewing audience In Its time slot, making Championship wrestling the top rated show at 10:30. 
Many have tried to credit the Rock and Wrestling connection with the WWF's success. MTV has broadcast wrestling matches, and Cyndi Lauper's videos have relied heavily on guest appearances by wrestlers. Her last video fur 'The 

The Observer Wednesday, August 28, 1985 -page 10 
TV 
continuedfrom page 12 
sion scene is still very much wide open, which prohibits us from get­ting specific on the times of the games. 
"We knew a bit more at this point last year, but we really can only speak with certainty about four of this year's games at this point."
t One ofthese games is the Septem­
•l ~ ber 14 game at Michigan. CBS, which has a contract with the Big 1 0 (of which Michigan is a part), has • stated its intention to broadcast this 
game nationally. The game will start
t 
at 1:40 p.m. in Michigan (12:40• South Bend time). CBS will also televise Notre 
! t Dame's last game of the season, the November 30 game at Miami, which will start at 3:30 EST. 
t 
Television plans have also been finalized for the September 28th game at Purdue: It will be carried by 
a syndication put together by WTBS, 
! ~ 
and will be shown in many major markets across the country. The Irish and Boilermakers will therefore have to kickotl at the early hour of 11:30 a.m. in Lafayette. 
! 
The only other game which can be talked about in certainty is the October 26 home game with USC. 
Because the Trojans are not allowed 
to appear on television because of violations committed, this game will begin at the standard time of 1 :00 at Notre Dame stadium. However, as one looks to the ot­her seven Irish games, things become more complicated. "Because of what we like to call the 'trickle down' theory," said Heis­ler, "television plans can be left open until only a week or two before each game. And if the television plans are uncertain, kickotJ times are also un­certain." And just what is the 'trickle down' theory? 
• ~ 
It begins with the fact that ABC owns first rights to all of Notre Dame's home games, as well as to any away games not at the home ofa team atliliated with CBS. If such is the case (as with the Michigan and Miami games), CBS owns these rights. ABC has first choice because of Notre Dame's atliliation with the College Football Association, which has a contract with. the network. 
But ABC is not forced to declare its schedule of games before the season starts. In fact, it is not forced to make its decision until 12 days before the game, and in four cases during the season not until six days before the contest. 
Some games which could be con­sidered probable games for ABC are the Nov. 16th game at Penn State and Nov. 23 against l.SU. But ABC has the option of waiting until very close to game time to make sure the game is the best game available on that date. 
Second on the 'trickle down' list is ESPN, which owns exclusive na­tional cable television rights to CFA games in prime time. ESPN televised 15 CFA games in 1984, primarily on Saturday evenings, and will do so again this year. 
If ABC turns down a Notre Dame 
game, ESPN then has the option to 
telecast it at night. However, the 
cable network is only allowed to 
broadcast one game per year ofeach 
team. 
So, if ESPN has already telecast an Irish game at night or simply decides not to carry it, the third option exists with Telstar Communications, Inc., a company formed "by Fred Bot­winik, former president of Katz Sports. 
Telstar replaces now-defunct Metrosports (bought by TCS Sports) as the independent carrier ofa maxi­mum of four Irish games. Probable games are Sept. 21 against Michigan State, Oct. 5 at Air Force, Nov. 2 against Navy and Nov. 9 against Mis-

welcomesack 

stuoents 




LETUSSHOW YOU THE WORLD! 
~~Computerized Airline Reservations ~ ~ Amtrack Umo Tickets to Chicago 
~ • Tours and Cruises 
~.No Charge for Our Services 
~. Major Credit Cards Accepted 
~source
..:Travel 



USA TODAY 
$28.00 

all semester 

DORM DELIVERY 


call Tim at 283-2163 
sissippi. Alternate games are Oct. 19 against Army and the I~"U game. 
The Irish games carried by Telstar will be carried live on Superstation WGN of Chicago. The network also is negotiating with other stations in markets across the country. 
"Botwinik made an otler we liked," said Notre Dame athletic director Gene Corrigan, "and guaranted certain aspects of it. He's someone who has always done what he said he would do. One ofthe par­ticulars was that it be carried by WGN for our Chicago audience. And we get the national audience be­cause it's a superstation." 
In all liklihood, any game (except for USC) not carried by a major net­work will by telecast by WNDU here in South Bend. But again, nothing is certain. 
For example, despite rumors to the contrary, nothing has been decided regarding the Michigan State game. ABC has not said whet­her or not it intends.to carry it. 
"ABC could wait until six days before the game to tell us," said Notre Dame associate athletic direc­tor Roger Valdiserri. 
Butler  
continuedfrom page 12  
whole  car  was  in flames.  It  was  
scary."  
Although  these frightening  mo­ 

ments occurred nearly three months ago, the memory of the whole scene is firmly engraved in the head of Butler. He and Wagner have even called to check on the condition of the victim, who cur­rently rests in serious condition at a Louisville hospital. 
"I just feel a lot better knowing he's going to live," says Butler. 
The news of Butler's heroism has even reached the inner sanctums of the Fighting Irish locker room -a place where the term 'hero' is usually reserved for on-the-field ac­hievements. 
"When I walked in after the weekend," says Butler, "everyone was talking about what they did. I just said to them, 'Oh yeah, listen to this..."' 
Despite his fame, however, Butler remains convinced that his actions were not so heroic. 
THERE'S STILL TIME TO PREPARE 

CLASSES STARTING This week 1717 E South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 272..4135 
~-H.MPUIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 

tn New Yolk State Stanley H Kaplan EOucatJOOal Ceme1 Ud 
TEST PREFOI.RATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 

"If I hadn't done anything, I'd be second guessing everything I do the rest of my life," he says. "Anyone in that situation has no choice but to do something. It was something I've never encountered before in my life and, hopefully, I'll never encounter it again." 


Please 
support AMERICAN 
CANCER 

SOCIETY® 
Burns Rental 
Cubic ft. Refrigerator $45 I School Year 
Delivery and Pickup Availabl 
323 W. Mishawaka Ave 259-2833 








'JI['~~C3L~-----------------------------------------~--ed•n•e•s•d•a•y-,A•u•g•u•s•t•2•8•'•1•9•8•5--•p•a•g•e•l...
l 

Bloom County 
WHO M1 I ? KHIIT 11M I 11U llBaff! 7HI~ llMNe~lll 
1.5 ~ f'IT~ l I fftl liKe liN I/Nf1NI5fffll 

Zeto 

ACROSS 1 Praise 5 Formed 9 Peter Rabbit's 
sibling 14 Prefix with 
dqllar 15 Drug plant 16 Coarse person 17 Harsh action 19 Incorrect 20 Prince­21 Units of work 22 Herzegovina's 
partner 23 Beverage 24 Water jug 26 Mil. training 
center 27 Purify 31 Breathing sound 33 Noblemen 34 Picnics 39 Faction 40 Refuse 41 Earth science: 
abbr. 42 Least sui· & 1985 Tnbune Media S~rvoces. Inc. flclent 
All R1gh1s Reserved 

44 N.Z. native 

45 Body powder 8 Poetic time 46 Meshed cap 9 "-and Wei· 48 Mineral spring come To It" 51 Dog docs 10 Sculls 53 Med. degree 11 Sound: prel. 54 Chose 12 Sound-related 56 Tobacco solids 13 Indian 58 Devil disciplines 61 TV's Lou Grant 18 Walls 62 WWIIiner 22 End-all's 64 Dutch painter partner 65 Surface 23 Aptitude 66 Consumer 25 Chaplet 67 Moss and Lorenz 27 Irish luck 68 FBI agent 28 Not of the 69 Hawaiian wind clergy 
29 Earth goddess DOWN 30 Result 1 Walesa 32 Poe and Guest 

2 Emanation  35 Suppositions  
3 USSR range  36 Extended  47 Hoopster  57 "Into-of  
4 Dillon's Adams  duration  Dantley  dew"  
5 Fabric  37 Days of­ 48 Hidden supply  58 -many words  
6 Like a bump  38 Cut open  49 Llngulne  59 Manner  
on­ 40 Lubricated  50 Doubleday  60 Kind of rubber  
7 Search with  43 Public houses  52  -und Orang  62 Fall behind  
a rod  44 Central part  55 Sugar source  63 Diving bird  

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

l 

l ~ 
Kevin Walsh 

"According to the map, this should be the place-but It sure don't look right to me.... Well, we're supposed to die around here somewhere." 
Campus 
•3:00 
p.m. · Ticket sales, Tina Turner con· cert, Rock du Lac record store, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S I 5.00 

•8:15 
p.m. -Class of '87 "Night at the Drive­In", 31 Twin Outdoor Drive-In, Sponsored by junior Class, S3.00 per person 


Dinner Menus 
Saint Mary's Notte Dame 
Baked Ham Meatloaf Philadelphia Steak Sandwich Spaghetti with Meatballs Potato Pancakes Fettucini Alfredo 
BeefStroganoff 


TV Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 Highway to Heaven 22 I Had Three Wives 28 Rock 'n Roll Summer Action 
8:00p.m.  16  Facts ofUfe  
22  CBS  Wednesday  Night  Movie:  
"Sparkling Cyanide:"  
28  Dynasty  
34  National  Geographic:  "Four  
Americans in China"  
8:30p.m.  16  Heart's Island  
9:00p.m.  16  St. Elsewhere  
28  Hotel  

34 Mark Russell Comedy Special ·9:30p.m. 34 Comc:dy with Montc:lth and Rand 
10:00 p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Kate & Anna McGarrigle: with Unda 
Rondstandt & Marie Muldaur 
10:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 U.S. Open Tennis Highlights 28 ABC News Nightline 
11:00 p.m. 22 CBS Late Movie: "Uncle Joe Shannon" 28 Love Connection 

• rr•~ • • • .,. • • .,.~. ra •~r• • • • r• • •~ •~•,.,. • • --~ r• .,. • • ca,. ..• .,. .,.~~--• rrr•
sr··································································· 

Cash BE WRITE WHERE 
tn•••

• IT COUNTS! 
The Obseroer needs creative, dedicated people to design ads, so ifyou're interested, 
JoinViewpoint today 
call Mary Carol Creadon at 
Become part of a winning team of writers 
283-3461. 
whose work is read by all ofNotre Dame ...on your and Saint Mary's . 
In Nr.w York StaiP Stanley H Kaplan Eeluca!lnnill Center lid 
CallJoe Murphy at 239-7471.
artistic 
TEST PREP" RATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 19~~ CALL DAYS. EVENINGS & WEEKENDS ND/SMC students and faculty are encouraged to apply.
talent 1717 E. South Bend Ave. 272-4135 South Bend, IN 46637 

..------------------------------~--------------------------~ ------------­
---~--,.-----­
Wednesday, August 28, 1985-page 12 


Newly-constructed pool will serve more than just varsity swim teams 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL offices for many of the coaches, ac­While the new pool will provide Sports Writer cording to Stark. the community with an outstanding The pool itself will be 50 meters facility for its use, it will also serve to 
The Irish swim team will soon in length and 25 yards wide. It will enhance the quality of the Notre begin practice for its upcoming have a high dive platform and bleac­Dame swim team with increased season. Fortunately for the Irish, her seats along the length ofthe pool space and opportunity for practice. their new home will be available to for spectators. It will also serve to enhance the them soon as construction crews are The pool will also have two team through the recruitment of putting the finishing touches on a movable bridges which could be more swimmers. new Olympic-size pool located be­used to divide the large pool into "It should attract swimmers when hind the ACC. three smaller ones. "Depending on this type offacility is available," says 
According to Aquatic Director how you want to set it up," explains Stark. "It gives them an opportunity and former Swim Coach Dennis Stark, "you could leave it as a 50 to condition themselves because of Stark, the new natatorium should be meter by 25 yard complex or you the 50-meter aspect. completed by the middle of Oc­could slide one of the bulkheads "About the only time that we had 
tober. Depending on the construc­over· to one side and have one ac­trained (for 50-meter events) was tion crews, Stark is planning for the tivity going on at one end, someth­between semesters when we would four-million dollar complex to be ing going on in the middle, and go someplace. The pool will open up available for use by the Notre Dame something at the other end. an opportunity for additional community just after fall break. "It gives us the flexibility of yardage to be accumulated by our 
The two-story natatorium will having more opportunities to do swimmers." house the Olympic-size pool, men's more things at the same time, which see POOL, page 7
and women's locker rooms, and we couldn't do before." 

Daring summer rescue makes ND's Butler a hero offthe football field 
ByMAR1Y BURNS Louisville when a car operated by down into the darkness to look for Sports Writer Mark Neddy of Louisville came help. After calling for an ambulance, speeding up from behind. While Butler hurried back to the scene of 
A quick mind, good instincts, and Wagner attempted to move her car the accident. a great deal of courage have kept out of the way, Neddy lost control at "I looked at the car and saw that it Notre Dame linebacker Dave Butler high speed and flipped over into a was rolled up on the side with flames alive and successful on the gridiron tree. 
pouring out ofit. It was pitch dark so for the past two seasons. I started moving closer to see if 
But those same qualities meant anyone was still in there. something a whole lot greater to a "Then a lady pulled up and started Louisville, Ky., man who was kept yelling hysterically to get away from alive because ofthe heroic actionsof the car," Butler continues.

Kickoff times in limbo 
the junior linebacker over the sum­"Everything was real chaotic. mer break. Everyone was screaming and the Butler, a 6-3, 223-pounder from horn was still blowing. Nobody was

until TV plans are set 
Sylvania, Ohio, was returning to really doing anything." 
South Bend with his girlfriend, Mary That's when Butler, who figures to By ERIC SCHEUERMANN television package, each school has Wagner, after attending a debutante play a prominant backup role at Sports Writer been allowed to negotiate television ball in Louisville, when he witnessed middle linebacker for the Irish this 
packages for itself. 

a chilling one-car accident and season, rushed to the car and pulled Although many rumors have been Because of this deregulation, the decided quickly to use some of his the unconscious man from the circulating about the kickoff times union of college football and televi­talents to save the injured man's life. flame-engulfed wreckage. "I was up here at Notre Dame for "I just grabbed him from under
and television coverage ofthis year's sion now creates many more com­Notre Dame football games, very plications, something which Notre classes and to lift weights, and I went Dave Butler the arms and dragged him out," Dame has not escaped. down to Louisville to see my recalls Butler. "His legs were pretty
few of them should be believed. Be­cause ofthe poweroftelevision over "Things have not really changed girlfriend for this dance," remem­"He had to be going 65," says But-badly twisted and he was stuck in college football, very little is known much from last year," said Notre bers Butler. "It all happened so fast, I ler. "It was the loudest noise I have there. I dragged him across the road, for sure at this point. -Dame associate sports information couldn't even remember fhe details ever heard. I told Mary to stop the arranged him so he could breathe all Since the 1984 Supreme Court director John Heisler. "The televi-until long after." car so that we could get some help." right and then turned around. The decision which forbad the NCAA to Butler and his date were travelling The Irish linebacker and his date, contract for the college football see TV, page 10 along a dark, narrow road outside of still clad in formal wear, then ran see BUTLER, page 10 


Will Faust be walking out or walking tall in '85? 
Hello again, everybody! 
He has often been lambasted by the press. Worst ofall, he Gerry Faust walks in his usual style these days --his Chuck has learned what it is like to lose. Faust has become all shoulders slightly hunched and his body leaning forward. . too familiar with losing in the last four years. His 20 losses The posture forces the legs to follow along quickly. at Notre Dame already exceeds his total of 1 7 defeats in 18
Freeby
However, these days Faust's step is a little quicker, a little years at Cincinatti Moeller High School. Eleven times, more hurried. Some force is driving Gerry Faust. Faust's Irish teams have lost leads in the fourth quarter.
Irish Items It is not a force with the intent of driving Faust out of Now the only thing Faust would like to lose is the frustra­South Bend, although that admittedly has been the focus of tion and regain the feeling ofa winner. much media attention over the summer. It cannot make has been about as popular as the bubonic plague with the "I want to win more for the players and fans than for Faust's job any easier when he sees comments like these: students. myself," he says. "I'd like to see us win to repay the people Coach Gerry Faust is in the final year of a five-year It is also true Faust is in the final year ofa five-year con­who have supported us. People expect the best from Notre contract, and ifhe wants to he around in '86, Notre Dame tract. What that means, however, is not exactly clear. It Dame, and when it doesn't happen everybody's had better win enough games to go to a major bowl...the certainly will not influence any coaching decisions he frustrated." Irish should win eight or nine games. Ifthey don't, Faust makes. He will play to win, and that should be expected of Faust is confident 1985 will be the season when all that is history. -Sports Illustrated any football coach regardless ofhis contractual status. comes to an end. "We're on the threshold of being where The majorNew Year's Day bowls pay about S2 million Furthermore, one must consider the source of these we want to be after the way we finished the season last to each team and the powers-that-he at South Bend, Ind., speculations. Last year, Sports Illustrated also predicted year," he says. "We've got a great group ofkids, and I think won't settle for any minor bowl this year. Coach Gerry UCLA would win the national championship, while Texas everything is in position. We just want to start out last Faust is on thespotandno excuses willbeaccepted. -The was The Sporting News' pick to win it all. Neither team season the way we finished last season." Sporting News. finished near the top spot, so one must weigh this year's Faust has the returning personnel necessary to perform Those comments may eventually hold some truth, but prediction ofthe fall of Faust accordingly. that task. Eight starters return on defense, while six are they are currently only speculations. Certainly Faust's When one is around Gerry Faust, he certainly doesn't back on offense. The only big holes to fill are at fullback and record at Notre Dame is not something which makes Irish carry the demeanor ofa man about to lose his job. The sun tight end, while everything else is apparently settled. eyes smile. At Northwestern, a 25-20-1 mark may make you occasionally does shine on Faust, which is something it He also has all ofhis assistant coaches back in 1985. Nor­the Messiah. At Notre Dame, it makes you about as popular didn't do often last season, especially on game day. His mally that wouldn't merit mention, except for the fact as Judas Iscariot. hoarse voice still shouts optimistically and he still wears a there has been a revolving door around the football office The students have made this point abundantly clear in smile on his face. Gerry Faust is not beingdriven by a fear of for four years. Things are settled down now, and Faust is past years. Banners and effigies have been hung from failure. He's being driven by a will to win. hoping it will help the program. dorms. Paint has been slapped across Faust's parking spot Frustration was not a word in Faust's vocabulary before Now all that is left for Faust is to win. If he can't do that, at the ACC. The "greatest student body in the world" has he came to Notre Dame. Now it has a spot in the press Gerry Faust may well be taking a walk. However, if Faust booed vigorously at home games. To put it bluntly, Faust guide. He has seen key players repeatedly fall to injuries. can win in '85, he may not be walking out, but walking tall. 
-




