-~------------------­
Dynasty II -page 9 

VOL XX, NO. 63 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1985 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame ~nd Saint Mary's 
McFarlane 
10 students treated 
resigns post; 


for minor injuries 
new adviser announced after snowball fray 
dents should end that kind of thing
Associated Press ByAlEX PELTZER StaffReporter on their own." Brother Bonaventure Scully, rec-
WASHINGTON President Notre annual tor of Keenan Hall, where at least
Reagan accepted the resignation of Dame's civil war that follows the first snowfall of the eight windows were broken,
Robert McFarlane as national security adviser "with deep regret winter this year left behind it a track disagreed with Rakow, saying an ex­
and reluctance" yesterday, and im· 
of broken windows and injured stu­tra effon ought to be made to mediately replaced him with his dents. Campus security reponed at protect the buildings. deputy, Vice Admiral john Poindex· least 30 windows broken and 10 stu­"When you know that this is going 
to happen. in advance, I think extrater, a low-keyed nuclear physicist dents who were taken to the hospi­who doggedly shuns the limelight. 
tal for medical attention as a result of security is necessary," Sculley said. Reagan -and McFarlane both the annual snowball fight. Zahm Rector Father Thomas King, whose hall was the first to be at·
denied he was leaving because of The number of broken windows tacked by the snow barrages,well-publicized friction with White could reach 60 because 'not all echoed Scully's thoughts. 
House chiefofstaff Donald Regan. 
broken windows have been "There were probably more than"That's nonsense," McFarlane reported, the maintenance depart­500 students taking part and havingsaid, standing grim-faced next to ment said. The cost of repairing the a good time," said King. "But thereReagan and Poindexter, his eyes red­windows is estimated between S900 were also 1 5 jerks who ruined it.
rimmed and glistening with tears. 
and S 1 ,000, according to Director of Those 1 5 have to be handled andMcfarlane, who is expected to Maintenance John Moorman. These those 1 5 need to be dealt with byland a high-paying job in private in­
estim~Ltes could rise depending on 
security."
dustry, said he had no immediate what types ofwindows arc involved, "At traditional times of the yearplans and quipped, "Ifyou've got any Moorman said. 
·security could prevent not a snow·leads, let me know." 
Rex Rakow, director of security, ball fight but the idiotic people.
Reagan said McFarlane, after 30 said that among the injuries were They should be stopped andyears ofgovernment service, "feels a cuts requiring stitches, a broken arm punished," he said.
responsibility, that I think all of us and serious eye injuries. 
King said he has communicatedfeel, toward his family." The presi­Rakow said he did not think this the need for security and punish­dent told reponers, "You have all was an unusually dangerous year for ment to Father David Tyson, vicebeen misinformed" about Regan and the snowball fight. 
president for student affairs.
McFarlane feuding. 
"It has always been a dangerous King did not mention any possiblePoindexter, a 27-year Navy event. In our estimation it is not a results ofthe communication.
veteran who was first in his class at maturo: or prudent act on the part of This year's snowball fight beganthe U.S. Naval Academy, said he had the swdents," Rakow said. 
Monday night when South Quad stu­
assurances from the president and But Rakow said he did not expect dents hurled snowballs through a
Regan that he would have direct securitty to take extra measures for Zahm Hall window. Troops from the
access to the Oval Office, with no in­1bcObKlrveriJ-In Smith future snowball fights because he South then moved to Keenan and
terference from the chiefofstaff. "I don't anticipate any problems," james Muller, a 1965 graduate ofNotre Dame, co-founded the saw it as the students' responsibility broke at least five windows. As the Poindexter said."Don and Iare good International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, a to act maturely. battle moved back and fonh bet· friends. I've known him since he was group that won the 1985 Nobel Peace Prize. Muller spokeyesterday "I would rather the students be ween Nonh and South Quads, win­secretary ofthe treasury." afternoon at the Center for Social Concerns on "Science and the responsible than for us to have to do dows in Dillon, Alumni and Global Community: the Nobel Peace Prize." Story below. other things," he said. "I think stu-Cavanaugh Halls were broken.
The president said Poindexter's selection underscored "the con­tinuity ofour foreign policy." Speak­ing of McFarlane, Reagan said, "I 
ND alum, activist blames arms race on U.S. 
know of no president who has been better served." . Virtually unknown outside the 
By MARK PANKOWSKI Nuclear War said yesterday, speak-arms race to two people arguing in a want the arms race ro keep going," realm of national security experts, AssistantNews Editor ing to approximately 70 people at room filled with gasoline, one hoi-said the 42-year-old cardiologist, Poindexter was the architect of the 
the Center for Social Concerns. ding five matches and the other who will attend the Nobel Peace administration's successful plan to The United States is to blame for "The Russians stopped testing on seven and asking which one is ahead. Prize ceremonies in Oslo, Norway intercept and force the landing of the continuation ofthe nuclear arms Aug. 6 . . . and what has been our "We have a golden opponunity on Dec. 10. 
the Egyptian jetliner carrying four 
race, according to Dr. James E. Mul-government's response?" Muller now to stop the arms race. We don't "There's a military industrial corn­Palestinians accused ofhijacking the 
Ier, the Notre Dame alumnus who said. "They said of course they need negotiations," Muller said. "All plex that's making a fantastic Achille Lauro cruise ship. helped found the organization that stopped, they just finished their tes-President Reagan has to do is sign a amount of money on these weapons Poindexter has long avoided in­
won the 1985 Nobel Peace Prize. ting program and we're in the piece of paper (saying) we're going and it's going to go on and on," he terviews and has privately Although the Soviet Union middle of one of ours, or they to halt nuclear explosions." said. expressed an aversion to the press, recently called a temporary halt to stopped because they'n: ahead. Reagan, who unlike Soviet leaders "Why are we continuing which he has criticized for what he its testing of nuclear weapons, the "Now the idea that one side is has yet to meet with IPPNW (testing)? That question has to be considers to be consistent inac­United States has refused, the co-ahead in the nuclear arms race is representatives, has not halted tes-asked," said Muller, who served as curacies. founder of the International ludicrous," said the 1965 Notre ting because "he's surrounded by secretary of the IPPNW when it was 
r------------------------------P_h_y_s_i_c_ia_ns_______ ____ __ ___ ___ __ __ __ __ ___ __ ____ ____ __ _______
for th_e Pre_v_e_n_u_·o_n o_f D_ame_gra_d_u_a_te_,_wh_o_c_o_mp_ar_c_d t_h_c n_u_c_Ie_ac s_tr_a_tc_~_·_s_~_an d ad_~·sors_wh_o seeNnJLLER,page5 
·Vietnamese return remains of 7 Americans killed in war 
Associated Press Vietnamese officials delivered of much greater cooperation in ac­evidence" cases because their Thuong village near Hanoi on Sun­the remains three days after counting for the 1,797 Americans planes crashed with severe impact, day, working with a Vietnamese 
HANOI, Vietnam · U.S. ser­completion of an unprecedented still listed as missing in action in or villagers had carried the crash team. vicemen stood at attention under a joint excavation at the spot where Vietnam. remnants away or plowed up the They found human bone frag­hot sun yesterday and saluted as an American B-52 crashed during a Ngo Hoang, a Foreign Ministry sites to plant crops. ments and large pieces of plane comrades carried seven small bombing raid over what then was official, said the remains in the Vietnam haS repatriated the wreckage, all ofwhich were flown wooden crates that Vietnam said North Vietnam. seven crates were found around remains of 123 Americans since to Honolulu on the C-141 for contain the remains of Americans In a short, simple airport Hanoi and the nc<trby pon ofHaip­1974. The last and largest turnover analysis. killed in the war that ended a ceremony, the Vietnamese also hong, which were prime targets of was of 26 se~ of remains Aug. 14, Colonel Joe Harvey, head of the decade ago. handed over to the U.S. military an intense U.S. bombing campaign all but two of which were U.S. team and commander of the 
delegation "material evidence" of in December 1972. At least 27 positively identified. center in Honolulu, called the A folded American flag was atop 14 other American servicemen, in­American planes were shot down The U.S. Army, Air Force and return of remains and the joint ex­each of the crates, which were put cluding identification tags. and 93 airmen were killed, Navy delegation receiving the cavation "encouraging signs of an aboard a C· 14 1 transport plane at Officials on both sides said they captured or reponed missing. remains included 13 specialists accelerated Vietnamese elfon" to Hanoi's Noi Bai aicpon for the hoped the excavation and return Hoang said authorities found no who completed a two-week ex­resolve the MIA issue by the end of 
flight to Honolulu. of remains marked the beginning remains in the 14 "material cavation ofa B-52 crash site at Yen 1987. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------· 
The Observer Thursday, December 5, 1985 -page 2 

In Brief 
Technical Sergeant Lee Farnerofthe Notre 
Dame Air Force ROTC detachment has been named "non­commissioned personnel officer of the year" for more than 20 Air Force ROTC units in the Ohio Valley area. Farner was singled out for his award because ofhis outstanding performance as principal agent responsible for the records ofmore than 250 cadets in the unit. ·Tbe Observer 
The Notre Dame Leprechaun is one of more 
than 100 mascots scheduled to participate in the Ford National Col­legiate Mascot Championship for 1985. In conjunction with the Ford American School Spirit Awards, the competition showcases the most outstanding mascots ln the United States, based on character, personality, entertainment value and overall effect of performance on spectators. Each mascot will submit a videotape of highlights of game performances. The tape will be scrutinizing for character development, entertainment value and techniques as well as crowd appeal. -Tbe Observer 
John Scharf, a Notre Dame graduate student In engineer­ing, has been named a recipient of the Society of Automotive En­gineers Forgivable Loan Award. The purpose ofthe award, now in its first year, is to assist promising engineering graduate students in seeking their doctorate degrees and in pursuing careers In teaching on the college level. An amount of S5,000 per year is available to each recipient for up to three years. Forgiveness ofthe loans Is based on three years offull time teaching in engineering.-Tbe Observer 
Of Interest 
Law School Forum: There will be a discussion on various civil rights decisions including Brown vs. Topeka Board of Education today at 12:15 In the Law School. All interested are en­couraged to attend. -Tbe Observer 
The Women's Caucus of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's will hold a brief meeting tonight at 7 in the Pasquerilla East chapel lounge. Prospective members are encouraged to attend.-Tbe Obser­ver 
Noel Coward's delightfully frivolous comedy, "Hay Fever" will be presented tonight at 8:10 in the O'Laughlin auditorium by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theater. The play will run Thursday, Friday and Saturday ofthis weekend and next. Tickets are S4 for students. -Tbe Observer 
MartinWeitzman, professor ofeconomics at the Mas­sachusetts Institute ofTechnology and author of a new book, "The Share Economy," will discuss "Profit Sharing as a Way to Reduce Unemployment" during a Notre Dame talk this afternoon at 4:15. The lecture, In the Hayes-Healy auditorium, Is part of the O'Neill Lecture Series and is open to the public. -The Observer 
Philadelphiaclub bus sign-ups will be tonight at Bin Lafortune. -Tbe Observer 
Out to lunch sponsored by the Center for Social Con­cerns will take place at the esc on tomorrow from 11:30 to 1:30. Proceeds will go to Centro San Francisco, a school in Ponce, Puerto Rico and to victims of the recent mudslides In Colombia. -Tbe Ob­
server 
The L-5 SocietyofNotre Dame will meet tonight at 7:30 In Lafortune's New Orleans Room. Guest speaker Georgia lrey, Democratic candidate for the U.S. Senate from Indiana, will speak on a variety of topics concerning science. · Tbe Observer 
Father Edward O'Connor, assistant professor of theology, will lecture on "The Meaning ofMedugorje: Recent Abori­tions of Marrying in Yugoslavia" today at 8 In Lafortune's Uttle Theater. The lecture Is sponsored by the Thomas Morris Society.· 
Tbe Observer 

Weather 
Pasty snow and slush will cover the campus as temperatures rise slightly. A 40 per­cent chance of light snow today. Slightly warmer with high 30 to 35. Snow flurries tonight. Mostly cloudy and cold. Low around 
25. A chance of flurries tomorrow. Variable cloudiness and cold. High 30 to 35. -AP 


Design Edllor.............]~ Anne Rledford Layout St<Jff ............................... Bill Argrnta Typeutters...••...•..•.•.•.••. lleclcy Gunderman 
Chuck Papandrea News lidllor.•.•.................... Mary HeUmann Copy Editor................................ Miriam Hill Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Scheuermann Vlnvpolnt Copy Editor ........ Doug Hasler VIewpoint Layout.•••.••.•..•..... Carol Brown 
FMturr!S Copy Editor.......•....•...... Ed Nolan FMtures Layout....•.......... Marie! Ubrador Typtst.•....•.•...•....................•..•.....CoUeen Foy ND Day Editor................... Sharon Emmlte SMC Day Editor................... Priscilla Karle Ad Design .•..•............. Mary Carol Crradon Prter Georges Joan WraptX Photograpber...........................}ustln Smith 
The ObMorvrr ( l ·s~ ~99 l-~000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The ObMo~r i> published by the students ofthe l 'nivcrsit)' of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Subocriptions may he purch>Md for t~() per year ( tlll per semester) by writing Thr ObMorver, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 
·t<>~~<>-Thr Obwrver " a mcmher of Thr A.58oclated ~-All reproduction rights arcc r~srrvtd 

'Accuracy in Academia' stifles creativity in the classroom 
There is a group which is trying to do a favor for stu­dents: making sure professors are not presenting stu­dents with misinformation. 
This conservative group is Accuracy in Academia, and it is an offshoot of the 16-year-old Accuracy in Media. 
Malcom Lawrence, its first president, said in an inter­view in Campus Voice magazine, the purpose ofAlA is "to find our ifthe leftist bias among reporters and media personnel originates in the university classroom." 
Lawrence intends to achieve this goal by recruiting unpaid monitors to observe selected classes, par­ticularly those in the humanities. 
These monitors report back to the group, and ifthese defenders ofconservativism find what they perceive to be a liberal bias, they will prelisure either the professor or the university itself to ensure that the conservative view also is presented. 
Lawrence defends the 

Jane Kravcik 
Assistant News Editor 
-the usual minimum for a college student · an adult. Even the claim that the group is only looking for false facts is questionable. 
If the group is so interested in facts, it should be monitoring those classes with the greatest quantity of facts presented: math and science classes. 
Instead, it is concentrating its efforts on humanities classes, which present fewer facts along with more opinion. 
Ifprofessors are presenting false information, it is the duty ofstudents to confront 
group against charges that it ·------5o, in ""''I opo1•ovr.. . the professor with any op­is trying to push its own · h 11 posing views they may have. 
1·deoIogy on others with the &4 • • • we ··· If an outside group is comment that it is only needed to decide what is "working for a continuation false and what is not, an in­ofAmerica as we know it." tegral part of the learning America as we know it, experience is eliminated, 
Lawrence contends, in· and no one wins. dudes respecting the flag, In the end, one is left with upholding the Constitution the impression that the and having a strong defense emergence ofAlA and its en­system. suing battles with univer­
In the first newsletter sities will leave the student released by the group last in a type of ideological tug· month, a professor at of-war, being bombarded Arizona State University is with opinions disguised as attacked for teaching an in· facts without being given uoductory political ideol­the chance to learn to think ogy class which the group for themselves. 

claims does not present anything except anti-nuclear propaganda. 
In response to this professor's perceived liberal bias, the newsletter suggests readers write to the university condemning the professor or send money to AlA so it can distribute the book, "H1e Health Hazards of Not Going Nuclear," to the 200 students currently en­rolled in the class. 
Even though AlA may have a right to defend its own views, it is questionable whether it has the right to enter rhe classroom to do this. 
An outside group entering a classroom doing what really should be done by students themselves un­dermines what possibly may be the most important aspect of an education -the ability to analyze views presented and argue intelligently when it is necessary. 
Lawrence claims the group must do this because col­lege students are "children." This point is also arguable because even the American legal system considers anyone 18 years ofage 
AlA is entering areas in which it does not belong, not to mention stifling the atmosphere of free intellectual expression of ideas by making professors reconsider presenting controversial ideas. 
AlA is not doing anyone any favors. 
Celebrate Life! Help the 
dp 
Ask one of the 3million Americans 
whdve 
survived cancer, if the money spent on research is worth it. 
Weare 
. . 
wtnrung. 


~AMERICAN 
cRCANCER 
'SOCIETY~ 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~-----~--l 
The Observer Thursday, December 5, 1985 -page 3 



Bhopal chemical leak an1ttiversary mourned 
Assoclated Press 
BHOPAL, India-A general strike paralyzed this central Indian city Tuesday and thousands of angry protesters filled the streets on the second day of demonstrations marking the first anniversary of the Union Carbide gas leak that killed more thal[l 2,000 people. 
Hundreds of effigies of the American chemical company's chairman were set ablaze Tuesday night. 
Marches and rallies were con­ducted in at least five other Indian cities, including New Delhi and Cal­
0 ­
The: Obeftver/Jualln Smith 
cutta, commemorating the leak of methyl isocyanate gas that killed
20 days and counting 
more than 2,000 people in Bhopal ­
The Knights of Columbus urged people to keep many Christmas decorations that keep popping up 
most of them slum dwellers -and 
Christ in Christmas with this decorative sign all overcampus. outside the group's building The sign is one of 
injured 300,000 others. About 4,000 demonstrators swarmed outside the Union Carbide 
fire to hundreds of small and large effigies of Union Carbide chairman Warren Anderson. 
"Down with killer Carbide, drown Anderson in chemicals," they shouted. 
Protest leaders said they planned to bum one effigy for each victim in the Dec. 2 to 3, 1984, industrial dis­aster, the world's worst. 
Government offices, schools, shops and markets in Bhopal were closed Tuesday in memory of the victims. Motorscooter rickshaws and mini-buses, the principal means of transportation in the city of 900,000, stayed off the roads. 
Black flags flew over homes in most ofthe slums around the Bhopal plant while the victims marked the anniversary as a "black day." 
No violence was reported in any ofthe demonstrations. 
The United News oflndia, quoting official sources, said three more slum dwellers who lived near the plant died Tuesday ofgas-related in­juries. Doctors at the city's main hospital could not confirm the report but said thousands ofvictims still suffered respiratory problems. 
One year ago more than 40 tons of deadly methyl isocyanate leaked from a storage tank and turned into a deadly cloud ofgas. The fumes smot­hered residents ofshantytowns near the plant and felled thousands of people as they fled in panic. 
Happy Birthday 
Chumley 
pesticide plant in Bhopal, demand­ing that the plant be permanently closed before another disaster oc­curs. More than 1,000 riot police guarded the plant. 
"Our struggle will be alive as long as we have life in our bodies and sensation in our toes," Abid Rizvi, a textile union leader, told protesters outside the plant. Many in the crowd were crying. 
Security was tightened at all Union Carbide plants in India. 
Children and adults thronged streets throughout Bhopal and set 

with NuVision's Double Up Deal! BUY 1st PAIR GET 2nd FRAME AND TINT FREE! 
Now you can get the eyewear bargain of the century. . . Buy one pair of quality NuVision eyeglasses or contacts and get a second frame absolutely free with the purchase of prescription lenses. Choose your second frame from a large selection and get a free solid, fashion or sunglass tint when you buy your second ·pair of lenses! Plus, save on extended wear, tinted or daily wear contacts. 
Tremendous Values on Contact Lenses! 
Extended 
$74
Wear 
Daily 
$49 
Softmate E.W. 
Wear Soft 
Contact lens price does not include eye exam or care kit. 
Offer good at participating offices only. Glasses must be ordered at time of, or prior to. delivery of your firSt pair. Eye examination available by independent licensed optometrist Offer not valid willl prior O<ders. Not valid tor state and led&nJIJy lunded programs. 
LaSalle Square 234·3123 McKinley Town &Country 256·1864 Plymouth Center-Plymouth 936-5012 
~ l&lett.


ltilieu! 
, © 1985 NuVision, Inc. 
University Park Mall 277·8682 
Elkhart Mall-Elkhart 295·2496 
1012 Main St.-Niles 684-8008 
It's avery open firm. Doors are open: people let you know you're welcome. 
Put it another way: DH&S cares. 
At all my interviews-on campus, at the office-everyone helped me give my best. 
That concern for my professional development has been there from day one. 
The training is excellent; I have a career advisor who knows my strengths; the supervisors on my jobs are thorough. All the way up the line, people are there when you need them. 
For me, the real difference was the people. I could tell from the beginning that was the DH&S difference. 
Joan Avery Staff Accountant, DH&S, San Francisco, CA BBA. 1985, Notre Dame 
Everyone told me accounting was more than numbers, that it was really apeople profession. 
That's why I'm sure I made the right decision. I work with good people who have the highest technical skills­together, in a total business environ­ment. 
There's no question. It's an outstanding business career. 
Deloitte 
Haskins+Sells 
USA 

The Observer Thursday, December 5, 1985 -page 4 
Chicago street gang seeks religious identity 
AMoclaced PreM  its religion and should be given the  
same rights afforded other religions  
CHICAGO -Memben; of what  by the Illinois Corrections Depart- 
police say Is one of Chicago's most  ment.  
notorious street gantp are testing  "A group could be a religion and a  
the First Amendment with a lawsuit  street gang," said the El Rukns' attor­ 
seeking recognition as an organized  ney, Thomas Peters. "Their beliefs  
religion -with rights to preach In  are traditional Islamic beliefs."  
prisons.  At least one other Chicago gang,  
Corrections authorities say the  the Black Disciples, has incor­ 
class-action lawsuit Is crucial to the  porated as a religious group. And  
state prison system's future. They  prison officials say other gangs may  
say the request for religious status Is  follow suit ifthe El Rukns succeed.  
a guise to cover gang recruiting and  "They're waiting In the wings on  
to organize Illegal activities within  this one," Richard DeRobertis, a  
prison walls.  former Statevllle Correctional  
"If the Inmates should happen to  Center warden, testified at the trial,  
prevail in this case," said Illinois Cor­ which resumes yesterday in U.S. dis­ 
rections Director Michael Lane, "it  trict Court in Danville.  
would guarantee no one would be  The El Rukn Organization is head­ 
able to manage the IUinois prison  quartered In an abandoned theater  
system."  in an impoverished area of the city's  
TheEl Rukns say they are peace­ South Side. Called the Grand Major  
loving adherents of Islam and their  Mosque, the building resembles a  
intent Is to spread Allah's word to  fortress with a steel front door  
the Incarcerated. They follow the  equipped with 2-inch diameter steel  
Koran's teachlntp and.have adopted  bars.  
Sunnl Islamic belief structures and  Authorities estimate the gang's  
prayer regulations, said leader Amir  membership at several hundred.  
Relco El.  Citing security concerns, the El  
The El Rukns contend their group  Rukns declined to comment on their  
has a constitutional right to practice  size.  
Four bombs  
delivered  
at clinics  
in Oregon  

PORTLAND, Ore. -Police on Tuesday said they defused four similar bombs that had been mailed to four area agencies that perform abortions or provide birth control information. 
Three bombs were found in packllges In the main post office, and one had been delivered Monday to the Portland Women's Feminist Health Center, said police spokes­manjay Decker. 
Staffers at the center became suspicious of the packllge and called police, said the center's Executive Director, Gerl Craig. She said staffers have been trained to be alert for suspicious packllges and letters. 
Decker said the bomb was power­ful enough to kill or injure several people. He refused to give details, saying an Investigation was proceed­ing. 
Police said the three bombs they found at Portland's main post office were addressed to Dr. Peter Bours of Forest Grove, the Lovejoy Surgicenter of Portland and a Planned Parenthood office in Beaverton. 
Abortions are performed at Bours' clinic and the Lovejoy Surgicenter. The Planned Parenthood office dis­tributes birth control Information but performs no abortions. 
Correction 
Because ofa reporting error In yesterday's Hall Presidents' Council story, Bruce Lohman's titk: was incorrect. He has no offi­cial association with student government or the judicial Council. Also, the parietals ques­tionnaire was not the work of a committee but was composed by Lohman and another student. 
Because of an editing error, a photograph In Tuesday's Obser­ver incorrectly identified the owner ofan automobile damaged by a tree. The car was owned by junior Andrew Saal. 
Funeral mourner 
APPhoto 
A grieving relative of 2-month-old Trochta township after poltce clashed wtth residents Nov. Ndlovu sits alongside the coffin of the baby who 21. As many as 50,000 people attended thefuneral died after being overcome by teargas in Mamelodi Tuesday of12 people who died in the clashes. 
................................................... 
. :·· 
.;.... _..... ·. 
MINORITY AWARENESS WEEK 
.•:_'N:''.. ..~ ~. •' .. . •• •. 'If•·'• ~ 
:·Law School Forum
invites you to a 
. '"( 
..··.Thurs., Dec. 5 at 1.2:15 pm 
~ ¥ '..y ..,·,,,,,M··.: ,:~" :}' :< 0 " '··,'''
Career -Industry Presentation 
··Notre Dame Law School 
I -· 
CASES TO BE COVERED:
on Tuesday, December 10, 1985 
from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. ; 
•Brown vs. Board of Education 
in the Notre Dame Room of Morris Inn • • Balli vs. School Board UCD 
,·
I 
I Winery Management representatives will 
ALL ARE WELCOME!
present a brief review of the wine industry and discuss career opportunities in this dynamic 
sponsored by: Student Government &
growth industry of the '80's. 
1;.;t,..O.~·~:;~.; ~': .~ 
Minority Concerns Commission







I . I ~ 
Questions are we(comed, refreshments will be served • ~·~········~····································· 
qn1.J ~auJo,J aq+ puno~v :t.:q pa~osuods 
idn ~1•Auun•ll••.1naA PU!Ipu• ..dnpua•!'4~•• Ia _,una• •'I~ a~ •:au~~p •wa:J 
S>INII:IU .l:IDS 
.. fj~..,
DNY YZZid 51511:1:1 
k~t.~:
w• aa=a-wdaa=a 
qni:J.Iai'I•S-IUWftiY 
" 20% Discount 
L.l•qw•:a•a 
N.D.-S.M.C.
Awp.1rq•s 
:lut.a••ddD•4 IIIAl 
Students 
,,JI trll Ill! 

niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran 
3: H J.
QNVH ~.JO'l> 

Malls -Elkhart 


The Observer Thursday, December 5, 1985--page 5 

An independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­plications for the following position: 
• Viewpoint Copy Editor 
This paid position requires editing View­point commentaries one afternoon per week. Letters of application should be sub­mitted to Phil Wolf in the Observer. office by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Dec. 11. 
For more information, call The Observer at 239-5313 


Reagan requests tax bill support 
good start, not an end product." 
"Any legislation that ends up retarding economic growth, and thereby diminishing the number of jobs upon which American families depend, is not what we mean by 'tax reform'," the president said. 
House Speaker Thomas O'Neill (D-Mass.) told reporters earlier that Reagan will have to persuade at least 75 of the 182 House Republicans to vote for the Democratic-written bill if it stands a chance of passing. "We're going to need Republican votes -there's no question about it," he said. -Congressional leaders have said no tax-overhaul plan can pass the House without Reagan's active sup­port. 

Muller 
continuedjrompage 1 
. founded in 1980. "Andwhat's wrong with our media which doesn't really play this up?" he said. "One side stops and the other doesn't even know it." 
Despite the present situation, Muller said, he's "very optimistic in the long run," because of "tremendous progress" made in the last five years in the public's aware­ness ofthe nuclear issue. 
The next step, the Harvard faculty member said, is for people to learn to live with nuclear weapons be­cause such weapons "are with us forever . . . The knowledge can­not be destroyed." 
Muller, who is on a leave of ab­sence as an IPPNW officer but remains a member, said the physicians' peace group faced several problems at its inception. 
"It was a scary time,"lie said. "We had no money, no staff, we all had other jobs. It was a very difficult time." 
Other problems faced by the IP­PNW, which now has more than 135,000 members in 41 countries, were the American doctors' worry of being viewed as "left-wing propaganda agents" and the public's initial reaction to the group. 
"The immediate response to us was 'You're a dangerous group. You're doctors who are going to have some influence in the West ... You'll have no influence in the Soviet Union,' " Muller said. "That was the hypothesis five years ago." 
But they were wrong, said Muller, who appeared on Soviet television in 1982 speaking the Russian he learned while at Notre Dame. "We had some success on both sides." 
Learn the facts about cancer. 
And make not knowing the risks, one less risk. 

proudl~ presents 
: IV_, : 
• ~ARIJIJ•r: 
$u~ r!/Jec. 6 7:00-clo6e 
Aslloclated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan asked the House yesterday to support the tax overhaul bill proposed by Democrats, despite a prediction by a House GOP leader that many Republicans would decline such a White House request. 
Reagan said the tax mc!asure ap­proved by the Democratic-run House Ways and Means Committee and the alternative proposed by the panel's Republican members, as well as his original proposal, all "represent substantial pro1~ess from current law." 
"True tax reform is imperative," he said in a written statement. "The first step must begin with a positive vote in the House of Representatives. I urge members of the House to act affirmatively on this important matter." 
Republicans have said they will of­fer their proposal as a substitute when the tax bill comes up for a vote in the House. But with the Democr~Lts in the majority, the final vote is expected to be on the Democratic plan. 
"We do not want to risk damaging, perhaps irreparably, an entire year's effort to achieve real tax reform, so I strongly believe the legislative process must be allowed to go for­ward," Reagan said. 
He added, however, that the House biill "can onlybe considered a 





~i~~~_()__i_ll___t________________
rh-ur-sda_y._De-ce-m-ber_s_,l9_8_s_p_ag-e6 
America changed 30 years ago by tired woman 
30 years ago this week a small tired woman rode the bus home from work ... 30 years ago this week a movement began and a leader emerged ... 30 years ago this week America was to be changed irrevocably ... 
It began simply enough. As a matter offact, it might not have begun at all had it not been for a pair of tired feet. "It" is the civil rights movement which originated on Dec. 1, 1955 in Montgomery, Alabama. The pair of tired feet belonged to Rosa Parks who, on that un­seasonably warm December day, boarded a Montgomery City Lines bus to go home. Due to the color of her skin, she sat in the back section of the bus as the law required. 
Martin Rogers 
guest column 
Because it was rush hour, as the bus passed through town it became more and more crowded. Finally at one ofthe stops, six whites got on and the driver left his seat and asked six blacks to give up their seats to the white patrons. This was an age-old custom which excited no undue comment. Three Negroes rose immediately. Rosa Parks and her tired feet, however, remained seated_ The driver again asked her to yield her place and once more this gentle, soft-spoken woman politely refused. Agitated and astonished, the driver summoned police who arrested Rosa Parks for violating the city's segregation ordinances. 

The arrest of Parks unifed and focused the discontent ofthe entire black community. Al­most immediately following her incident on the bus, leafiets were sent out to the roughly 50,000 black residents of Montgomery which read: 
"Don't ride the bus to work, to town, to school or any place Monday, December '5. Another Negro woman has been arrested and pur in jail because she refused to give up her bus sear. Come to a mass-meeting Monday at 7 
p.m. at the Holt Street Baptist Church for fur­ther instructions." 
And thus, because of an ordinary, 42-year­old, black seamstress the "Montgomery Bus Boycott" and thereby the civil rights move­ment began. When that Monday came the buses were empty. So effective was the one-day boycott that it was continued and stretched out to 382 days until all of the busing and several other of the city segrega­tion ordinances were abolished. 
A young preacher was chosen to 1ipeak at that "mass-meeting Monday at 7." A young preacher who would become the leader ofthe "Montgomery Bus Boycott." A young preac­her who would emerge as the voice of his people. A young preacher who would enun­ciate a doctrine oflove and wield the powerof Ghandian non-violence. That young preacher was Martin Luther King. 
The 382-day boycott, spawned by Rosa Parks, changed and molded Martin Luther King. King, thus transformed, changed and molded America. 
But why did all this happen? Why did Parks stand -or rather sit -her groundl and refuse to move? 
King would later state that Parks had been "tracked down by the 'Zeitgeist'-the spirit of the times." 
Parks would give a much more simplistic answer as was her character and nature, "I really don't know why ... there was no plan at all ... I was just tired ... my feet hurt." 
Where these two responses intersect is the reason for Montgomery. At its inception, the civil rights movement was a consequence of pain -the physical pain of sore feet and per­haps more importantly the pain of the human spirit -and proper timing. 
Park's act provided her people with a sym­bol to give them power over their fears, a con­crete instrument to hold in their hands (The boycott/ movement) and a leader to guide their way (King.) Indeed Park's act could not have occurred at a more appropriate time in history. Without Parks it might be argued that I, a black student, would not be writing this article or even in college. 
Finally, it is noteworthy to mention, ob­viously with the aid of hindsight, that it was King really that the Zeitgeist was seeking. Indeed, it was King that the times had "tracked down" and it would be King, as a result ofParks who would shape history. Parks marked the beginning of the end of an era of injustice. An era of injustice which has been tempered by King but still continues. 
Martin Rogers is a sophomore accounting major at Notre Dame. 
Beauty and novelty of sn<tw soon will wear off 
To those Notre Dame freshman wbo bail from warmer climates. 
Yes, all that white fluffy stuffon the ground is commonly referred to as snow. For most of you this will be your first winter in a winter climate. Yes, it does look pretty as it falls from the sky and clings to the branches on every tree. But believe me, by the time March rolls around you will be sick ofall this snow. 
Eric Bergamo 
across the eighth dimension 
March? I hear you ask. It snows until March? Well, some years it has been known to snow quite heavily in April. 

Now admit it, you were fascinated the first time you saw the snow. You went outside and built a snowman or two and threw a few snow­balls in the annual "civil war" between the quads. But the novelty quickly wears offwhen you have to walk to class everyday through the snow, which quickly turns into slush once the temperature rises above freezing. Add to that dodging snowplows driven by the same workers who tore about the campus on their lawnmowers during the fall. 
But along with this snow comes its close relative, cold. You can't h:1ve snow without cold temperatures and that cold attacks with a vengeance. Below zero temperatures are common is this region.lfthat isn't enough, the wind can make it seem 10 times colder than what the thermometer says. If you had been outside Sum.~y night when those gale force gusts were tearing through the campus, you would have quickly learned what the term "wind <:hill" means. 
You will learn many new words this first winter, such as "lake effect snow," "traveler's advisory" and the ever popular "winter storm warning." This last word means that you might wake up to find a snowdrift coming up to your third floor room. You'll soon start watching Dick Addis and his weather report every night to find out how much snow will fall and how cold it will be the next day. 
I'm sorry if I have ruined your lunch by tel­ling you all this, but it is true. You will soon consid•:r a daily high of 40 degrees to be "warm." You will begin to look upon sunny .days as a gift from God. Dreams ofbright sun­shine and warm temperatures will fill your thoughts. Each day home on break, back in your sun and warmth, will be treasured before you have to return to the snow and cold. 
Don't worry, winter does not last forever. (Though it seems to last for an eternity.)Just dress warm, throw a few extra blankets on the bed and take it all in stride. There are only four months until spring rolls around. It is a little disappointing it is still officially fall. 
Eric Bergamo is a sophomore international relations major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. He is a native of Seneca Falls, New York and used to all Ibis snow and cold. 
__________P__._o_.B_o_x_Q__________j 
Logic behind the fight never quite understood 
Dear Editor: 
As I sit here watching the Bear's game, the annual tradition known as the North-South snowball fight begins outside. In four years here at Notre Dame, I have yet to understand the logic behind this event. It begins some­how and moves into North Quad like a'ilow elephant. After using Zahm for target practice they hope to gain enough men and motivation to move on down to Dillon and the rest of South Quad. 
In the attempt to prove their manhood, the battlelines are drawn and no matter who is injured the tradition must go on. Two years ago while warming up at Zahm, the warriors began their ruget practice with a few win­dows·-no matter that there were people be-
Doonesbury 

hind these windows studying. One was broken, much to the surprise ofa freshman at his desk behind it. Suddenly, he had a face full ofglass splinters. The band, moved on. 
The injury toll that night was fairly severe: windows in Zahm, the chapel windows in Alumni and Dillon, the boy in Zahm and several bruised and battered warriors . . tempers do flair during these annual games_ 
I had hoped in my year abroad since then that something was learned around this place, but I guess I was wrong. The gallant warriors are beginning to return to their strongholds now. I wonder what the damage will be this year? 'Tis a shame they had to ruin the beauty and tranquility of this night after our first snow. At least I have the pictures I took to speak of the peace that reigned before the animals were let out oftheir cages. 
Kerry Dixon Pasquertlla East 
Sup,porter of Hesburgh heid wrong argument 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing to you in re~pou~e toJudi! h .I Bare's Nov. 26letter regarding her·· Hurra\'~· for Father Hesburgh. · 
I would like her to explain ""'".It is so im 

moral about consoling a tru::ud at a time of 
need with the door open and the lights on? 
Also, Jane Q. Public, don't bring in your outdated, provincial "Catholic" views to jus­tify Hesburgh's decision; he has John T. Goldri<Ck, associate vice-president for residence life, and Ann Firth, director of residence life, to do that for him. 
My !lympathy pours for your children; do you stilll drag them to Mass every Sunday mor­ning, or are they old enough to make it on their own?Ifso, howdo you check up on them while they are here at Notre Dame? 
Garry Trudeau 

tA/&U., I'Ve 50MtatW
7HATWA? 'rVU? 
tAIHAT(l(}
IS4WYOU 
Y()() /1)()1< VIFFCR­

NWS, 50N. 7HE N/5W
7H/'3MORNIN6 
YWWANT,
&NT! «J{{I85()Mt­

HfATIN6 01/..8/{L CAMe
lfTBREAK­
l/N:l& 

IN. IM 60f/lk3 70HAV£3
7HIN6 WITH 
{)()K&t!
fA~l/Na& 

70 f?A6I3 ROOM ANlJ
YWRHAIR?
/)(/K/3. 
I I 

70 I!PXJAPAY.
I 
5Tl?JCTLYON 
IiL
ANAall.ITY-
KilL
70-PAYf!ASI<3, 
HER. 
(J= CIJ(jf(!£. 
I \ 

Also, does your husband know that you sign your own name and not his? 
rraig Yarwood Grace Hall 

Faust leaves as winner in one ND fan's book 
Dear Editor. 
fhe resignation ofGerry Faust affects every person differently. For me, the day I heard he resigned will be a day I will long remember. Faust was Notre Dame. He stood for what we as Catholics, and even Christians, believe. He lived his beliefs on and off the field, always trying his best to succeed. Although he did not accomplish his goal, Faust never gave up. He believed in his team and Notre Dame as a whole. Faust may go down in the record book 'as a losing coach, but in my book he is a win­
ner. 
Sarah Raub l.emansHall 

Quote of the day 
"The stockings were hung by the chimney with care, in the hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there." 
Clement C. Moore (1779-1863) "The Night Before Christmas" 
-----------~----------------------------------~ 
"ie~P.~O~i~n~t~------------------------------------------Th--u_rs_d_a~y,_D_e_c_e_m_b_er_s_,_I_9_8_5___Pa_g_e__7 

P.O. Box Q 

to delirium and incoherence. Can they be
Reverence of students 
trusted for a competent decision? It has been recognized by courts that an adult has no
showed proof of faith 
natural guardian. Could we allow a spouse in 
,
DearEditor: 
his or her grief to make a competent decision? Last Monday afternoon during a roaring 
Can the patient make the decision heavily blizzard the Holy Cross Community had to 
~gged? His opinion would not hold up in a bury a fellow priest by the name of Father 
!court oflaw. Tom McDonough. We marched irom Sacred 
Perez states that we all have a right to death. Heart Church to the commmunity cemetery 
This may be a moral virtue but not a legal one. behind Holy Cross Hall. As we approached the 
The court of New Jersey in JFK Hospital v. playing field next to the residence hall we 
Heston stated, "There is no constitutional could hear shouts of students who were 
right to die and if the state may interrupt one frolicking in a game of football in the snow. 
' mode of self-destruction, it may with equal They were wonderful sounds of joy and I am 
authority intedere with the other." If the sure that McDonough himself must have 
courts did rule against this case, how would it played on the same field as a young student at 
monitor deaths? Would it set up committees? Notre Dame. All of a sudden every student 
An idea of a committee would turn a sick became quiet and knelt on one knee as the room into a bureaucracy. Legal machinery procession and hearst went by. I was walking 
would produce an atmosphere foreign to all next to Father Hesburgh who had his head 
accepted notions ofdying in peace. downcast. He was sad because McDonough 
The legalization ofeuthanasia would drasti­was one of his best friends all through the 
cally alter the patient-doctor relationship. seminary. I pointed out the students kneeling Confidence might give way to suspicion. in the snow to him. He looked up and said, 
Would a patient who had intended to revoke "Isn't that something!" There was an im­
his declaration for euthanasia have faith that mediate glow of pride in his eyes for our stu­
his second declaration would be heeded? Can dents and he waved at them as if to say "Thank the physician, a historic battler for life, 
you." become an affirmative agent of death without and turning the question into one of revolu­
Silent campus majority 
I would like to commend the students of jeopardizing the trust ofhis dependents? tion and more violence? Holy Cross Hall and their rector, Father Perez claims that euthanasia should be in­Why do we hear so much about apartheid
knows about apartheid
Patrick Sullivan, for their courtesy and :tended "where no cure is forthcoming." How and so little about Afghanistan and the op­genuine expression of respect as Catholic ~an anyone be so sure? How do we know that pressive measures taken by other govern­
DearEditor: 
•, Christians. It made me feel really proud ofthe 'tomorrow death will be the incurable's only ments we support communist and
In the special edition of Scholasticfaith ofour students. 
hope? This presumes we know today what non-communist alike? Wh~ pulling our 1
magazine, the editors put out a call to the stu­
I remain, sincerely yours in Christ, cures will be found tomorrow. Also, is there strings and why? -..,
dent body to "awake from their apathy and
Rev. Andre Leveille not a chance of faulty diagnosis? Unfor­We ace simply writing to cause trouble, but 1
support a referendum for divesture," lest we
Director ofUniversity Ministry tunately, medical history is riddled with ex· the loud minority should indeed question 1
forever be treated :as children by the ad­
amples. How do we know for a person killed their sources. We see this movement as the
ministration. We must argue to the contrary.
Monitoring euthanasia 
by euthanasia today that no cure will be found blind leading the blind. Apartheid no. Divest­
The silent majority is in touch with realitytomorrow? ment no. Violence no. Randy Gallagher
and has indeed heard the call voiced for
would be a big problem 
Perez talks of bringing a moral issue into a referendum. That referendum, however, Tom Pernsteiner Dear Editor: legal world. When one does that, one enters should be to keep our investments locked in Keith DanbrowskiLisa Perez in her column, "Legalize Eut­the complex world oflegalities. Would a doc­South Africa. The administration is . merely Notre Dame students 1 hanasia so that dying have a choice," states tor perform euthanasia knowing he could be dealing with the majority of adults here at 1 
that "dying with dignity should not be a sued? Perez states that people "do not have United States must end l
Notre Dame. 
crime." Euthanasia is certainly a noble idea if the right to live in bodies trapped and riddled While highly idealistic, the movement for 1 not a particularly good one. Perez states that, with pain and disease." If euthanasia were 
support of the Contras 
divestiture is counter to political realities and "A close and careful watch should be kept by legalized, would there not be talk of killing is a naturally "aggressive" act of human DearEditor: the law ... so that euthanasia does not become people with birth defects. After all, they can­nature. What right do we have to play God in I must thank Brendan Daniels for explaining rampant and haphazard." How does she not live a normal life. It would be better fur South Africa when grass roots effects of our the policy of the United States in Central propose to do this? The risks ofeuthanasia far them to die. If euthanasia were legalized, actions will be political instability, economic America. IfI understand Daniels correctly, the outweigh any good intentions. Legalized eut­genuine mercy killing might lead to mistakes. 
chaos and of detrimental nature to the vast United States supports the Contras because, if hanasia would be akin to opening Pandora's If a person is unconscious, we can never be 
majority ofblacks? it did not, the godless communists would box which would awash us in a sea oftrouble. sure ofhis intention. Ifwe kill one person who 
soon threaten all American interests in the Perez claims, "The choice between life and does not legally consent, what is there to stop 
Why do we hear this clarion call to violence Caribbean. After that the "red menace" will death is too intensely personal to ever be us from killing j,eople with birth defects? The ;lnd an instant solution? Sure, our patience has march steadily northward, subjecting in­decided by someone else." This brings many. grounds would be similar: a person with no been worn thin by tht: harshness of apartheid nocent people to communism until theyinteresting questions, Who would decide for choice and no chance for a good life. It is bet­and its apparent immortality, but violence is knock on the door ofJohn Smith, Main Street, incompetent patients? What if a retarded man ter to have euthanasia as it is, undisturbed, 
USA. To prevent this unspeakable atrocity, were dying ofAlzhiemers? Who would decide then to opeA this box oftroubles. 
never the solution. 
One has to only look to our past history of America has the right and indeed the duty to for him? In some forms of Alzheimers, severe jim Lipetzky 
the fight for civil rights to see that one has to support killers, torturers and fascists, not onlymental clouding exists in patients which leads ZabmHall 
walk before he can run. The classic confronta­in Central America but throughout the world. I tion between Booker T. Washington and In the name offighting communism, America 1 

W.E.B. Dubois for economical and political is killing innocent people. How long can we, rights for blacks in America is very similar to as followers of Jesus Christ, allow this to go 
l 
the cries for instant solutions we hear to apar­on? 
theid. Washington established the iamous 
Michael Sestrlck 
Howard Hall

Tuskegee Institute, a trade school for blacks, while the other agitated for full equal rights. There ace no instant solutions, but a resound­ing cry for change is vital for change. While we need protest in our voices, we need vigilance in our actions and accomplishments in our 
1
..,
hat. 
The Viewpoint 
Do we then contradict ourselves if actions speak louder than words? We believe we do not. Trying to bring South Africa to its knees 

Department
by divestment is a "quitter's solution" which will only result in a defensive reaction. It is a far too aggressive move at the present time, 
P.O. Box Q 
and is analagous to playing the trump before 
the hand has been properly played. 

Notre Dame, IN
Here ace the real "grass root" questions we should be asking ourselves: How can we change apartheid, while still 
46556 

maintaining a stable South African ally? If we remove the only inside pressure we have against apartheid, will' we be giving up 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager...................... David StepheMch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame duLac and Samt Mary·s College. It does not necessanly reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager....................... John A. MennE-ll 
adm1mstrat1on of e1ther 1nst1tut1on. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ..............................<•••••••••••• Jeff Blumb 
Sible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opmion of a majooty of the Editooal Board. Commen­
Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healy 
tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy 
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus, through letters. IS encouraged. 
Copy CJ'lief.......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 


Accent Dust·bowl 

LaFortune employees adjust to inconvenience 
FRANKLIPO ''No one wants to be working in" features st4ffwriter dusty room," said Fitterling, "But that can't be avoided." She said the minous thuds and the drone of dust has been bad only two or three

0 heavy machinery are heard as times and extra janitors have often as the sound ofstudent helped alleviate the problem: voices. Vibrations shake the walls. The dust alsb rises to the third Fine white dust coats the furniture floor of LaFortune. and stairwells. "One thing that really bothers me 
But despite the Inconveniences is the dust all over the place," said that a renovation has brought, busi· Jim Basile, editor-in-chiefof ness continues in LaFortune Stu· Scholastic. The heavy machinery dent Center. noise and the noise like a "pile 
"It's not really too bad. It gets driver" sometimes make the floors dirty and noisy, but I can handle it vibrate, added Basile. But he said myself," said Debby Morris, a full­the renovations do not interfere time employee ofthe Huddle. "I with the production ofthe imagine it is a lot ofInconvenience magazine. for most people, though .... I think It will be nice when it's done. It Space limitations during the should be worth It (the incon­renovation are another problem venience)," said Morris. that those who work in LaFortune
I 
r For those Vl1f5 work in must face. The game room in the LaFortune, that is the attitude basement of LaFortune held 13 pool which makes it possible to make It tables last year. This year it holds through a year oftransition. The two. "The construction itself isn't benefits ofa renovated Lafortune bad ... But it sure has been a reduc­loom ahead. But the cloud ofdust tion (in facilities) since last year," and noise must be dealt with first. said Fritz Lupone, a student 
Those who work in the basement employee of the game room. and first floor are closest to the dust which rises as cement walls are Brother Francis Gorch, manager
r 
knocked out. Those on the east side ofLaFortune for the past 20 years,
r 
of the building must work as cranes said the space limitation ofthe
r 
and heavy machinery hover over game room is one ofthe biggest
r 
r LaFortune and must feel the vibra­problems of the renovation. Two tions as the addition slowly rises pool tables and five video machines
r 
out of the quickly freezing ground. are not enough to meet student But the degree ofnoise, dust and needs, he said. The annual pool vibration changes from day to day. tournament will be cancelled this 
"We're far enough removed from year because ofthe lack of tables. the noise ... We're OK because The Morrissey Loan Office also we're on the second floor. Once in suffered inconvenience from the a while we have clouds ofdust all renovation, said Gorch. The office is over the place," said Betty Fitterl­temporarily relocated to the third ing, secretary in the Office ofInter­floor of the Administration Building national Student Affairs. Her office near the Student Affairs office. was moved from its location In the Shenanigans' office also was moved basement Into the space previously from the basement; this time to the 
I occupied by the Student Saver Scholastic office on the third floor I store. ofLaFortune. r Shenanigans was moved ap­
or disconnected for varying This is the.fourth renovation in
r· 
proximately a month ago because amounts of time. 
the last 20 years, said Gorch. He ofthe: unhealthy dust, according to 
said he views the renovation as Shenanigans general manager Katie 
"The main problem that I have is 
"just another phase." He said the O'Malley. The new office space is 
when they have to shut the water 

inconveniences will be a part of the actually larger than the old office 
off," said Margaret Linhart, student 
renovation period. There are just space:, said Mike Bish, financial 
government secretary. She said at 

"the things you have to put up manager. O'Malley said the move 
such times it is impossible to use 

with." has been a smooth one. Both said 
the washrooms or even to get a 

"I've gotten so used to it (the they looked forward to a renovated 
drink ofwater or make a pot of 

inconveniences) ... I'm sure when LaFortune where all club offices 
coffee. 

it's all over it will be worth it. We'll r would be located together. Gorch said that renm at ions ovn probably get headaches from the Work done in the basement also the years have changed tht· lavom silence when it's over," said Linhart. affects those who inhabit Lafortune of Lafortune to such a degree that ''I'm really excited to see the in unexpected ways. Steam pipes, old blueprints are not accurate. 
finalization ofthe construction ... water pipes, electrical wires and gas Also, many blueprints have been 
It's something that's been needed lines have been unintentionally cut lost. 
for a long, long time." 
l 
The Observer/Mark Szhudlarek 
Electrician works on the wiring ofLaFortune's addition. 





Thursday, December 5, 1985 -page 8 -9 
A glimpse at Roma 
Dynasty II: The Bores 
ERIC M. BERGAMO 
features copy <!tittor 

T 
his is my overall reaction to 
"Dynasty II: The Colbys." 
Yawn. 
They should have named this 
show "Dynasty II: The Bores." It is a 
listless attempt to cash in on the 
sucess of"Dynasty." There is a great 
deal ofglitter and gloss, but unfor­
tunately not much after that to keep 
the program going. 

Television 
~~~Dynasty II: 
I.The Colbys 

Yes, these California Colbys are rich. They are so rich that their mansion looks like a place where Robin Leach would stop by for a segment of"Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous." And they do dress to the hilt, I'd like to see how much of the program's budget is just spent on clothes, but there is nothing of interest in the show after that. 
The characters are terribly bland to the point that I really could not care what happens to them. Not that it matters, the plotlines are hopelessly mired in a mix ofcamp and melodrama. Jason Colby, the patriarch of the Colbys and played by Charlton Heston, is dying from some incurable dffiease. Well, ac­tually (as this past week's episode revealed), the doctors were wrong in their diagnosis and he is not dying. Meanwhile, Fallon, who used to look like Pamela Sue Martin but now looks like Emma Samms, is suffering from amnesia (that old soap-opera ailment) and has fallen in love with playboy Miles Colby, 
much to the chagrin ofher ex­husbandJeffColby OohnJames). Like I say, it is a mix ofcamp and melodrama. 
"Dynasty II: The Colbys" could be much better in a number of ways. They could give more sub­stance to the characters, making them more human and giving them problems that the middle class viewers could relate to might help. Cutting down on the melodrama 

FIRSfTHE CARRINGIDNS... NOW lHECOLBYS. 
''·""'"' 
CHARlTtlS IUO,fllS• j(Jfl:"\ J.\.\lE~ K.\TIII~RISC ROS~ STEI'II.\Sll·. HL\CI 1:\.\1•1-:.\1.\t-\ ~.-\.\1.\1!> 
.\l:\X\l"I-I.IC.-\UI'IH!l 
.-\Sil 
K:\RH.-\R.\ !> 1.-\X\l"YCK 
might also help to tighten up the 
show. 

Now don't get me wrong, there were things that I liked in this show. Charlton Heston and Barbara Stan­wyck do a respectable acting job as Jason Colby and Constance Colby, respectively. The sets and costum­ing are quite impressive to look at. But for "Dynasty II: The Colbys" to live up to its potential, they ;tre going to have to add some sub­stance to go with the style. 
Essays link students and alums 

KEVIN D. WALSH 
features staffwriter 

T 
he alumni that I see on football 
weekends are too removed 
from me for me to understand 
them. Wearing funny hats, they 
swig beer and laugh a lot. They are 
older. They are heavier. They are 
wiser. They are richer. These are 
not the same kind ofpeople that/ 
know at Notre Dame. 
note the differences in attitude and writing style of those alumni who graduated after 1950 compared to those who graduated before 1950. 
The style ofone of the essays is very 
similar to the novel serials from the 
1940s and 1950s like Tom Swift and 
Chip Hilton. The Hardy Boys Go to 
Notre Dame. 
The first essay in the book, en­
titled "September Ghosts," was 
written by Paul Maich ('72). It ffi a 
Books 
Reflections in the Dome 


"Reflections In The Dome" proved me wrong on that count. These people arejust like us. So like us in fact that it scares me. The Notre Dame that they knew had different rules and different faculty and different buildings, but the University is the same. 
"Reflections In The Dome" is a 55-page book published byJuniper Press, a publishing house run by students as a class. The book was edited byJames O'Rourke and includes a forward by Father Theodore Hesburgh. After pouring over numerous essays from count­less alumni, the students in that class decided on the ten essays presented in this book. Their choices cannot be faulted. 
The essays are all well-written and points ofinterest can be found in all ofthem. It is interesting to little more than a side ofa page and it is undoubtedly the most powerful article in the book. Maich writes the essay as a patchwork ofmemories and everyday occurrences from his life at Notre Dame. Through his interpretation, these mundane happenings become something more. Something noble, I guess. This essay alone makes the slim volume worth the $4.75 price. 
The settings for these stories are sometimes unfamiliar, but the situa­tions are all too familiar. In "Bless Me, Father" byJoe Gores ('53), he details the adventure ofsneaking back on campus after a night out at South Bend bars, carefully avoiding the roaming guards prowling the campus to find curfew-breakers. Gores is not alone; he is accom­panied by a football playing friend. When one ofthe guards catches the 
FRAN NORTON 
features writer 
E 
xpo Roma" is an exhibit cur­
rently on dispaly in the Ar­
chiteclture Building which 
includes the best water colors, 
skectches and designs ofthe 
Notre Dame junior architeture 
students who studied in Rome. 
~ Art ~ExpoRoma 
Junior architecture students spend their first semester in '~tpe fine tuning their skecting U:itl.s. They concentrate on perspective, scale, and propor­tion. Second semester the stu­dents take their refined skills and produce striking watercolors. 
Some: of the more interesting works on display are several notebooks from field trips. Far from regular notebooks, these are the impressions ofstudents 1'_Vl}ll!P. taken to various locations ¥OUhd'Rome. Although the Students were only given a short l;.me at each site, the notebooks are highly detailed and im­aginative. 
"Being able to sketch quickly soon became habit," said Mike Wisneski, who was in Rome himself last year. 
Some notebooks combined sketches and commentary to form a highly creative artistic entity. Such creativity also helped to improve the grade that each notebook received. 
While:_ tn Rome, the students worked on three major projects. 

The level ofdifficulty increased with each. 
The first assignment was to design a fountain. Though the student could be highly creative, ~ ~>tructure had to blend into its environment. 
The second project consisted ofdrawing plans to rennovate a section of the Palazzo Spada Museum. This proved challeng­ing, since authorities in Rome do not wish to tear down existing, though crumbling, structures. 
For the third project, students could either design a library or a kindergarten. The design was for an actual site in Rome. 
The students Final Project was perhaps the most challenging. It was certainly the most im­aginative. Pliny the Elder main­tained a lavish villa on the coast. Thoughitnolongerexffits, scholars know ofits existence from references to it in Pliny's letters. From these descriptions the students designed their own version ofPliny's coastal villa 
This exhibit ffi a fine example ofthe work that architecture students do in Rome. From their sketches and designs, the magic of their experience comes alive. 
In order to fully round out the 
exhibit, a collection of 
photographs taken by ar­
chitecture students while 
abroad is also on display. 
Though many were taken in 
Italy, others are from England 
and Egypt. 
The dffiplay showcases the 
work ofmany talented students. 
But at the same time, it gives the 
common student a glimpse of 
what a year ofstudy abroad was 
like. 
two, the football player knocks him out rather than risk getting caught. 
There are stories in here about life at Notre Dame when George Gipp and Knute Rockne were here. There is an essay by a member of 
.t 

the first female class to go through Notre Dame, who relates an inter­
.f!!"":' 
esting story about how the guys at 
...
Notre Dame used to ship in girls for Mardi Gras. 
In "The Season For War," another powerful essay, John Gilliga111 ('42) writes about the effect that World War II had on Notre Dame. With a student's confusion about world issues, Gilligan relates the story of how World War II broke the naivete ofsheltered Notre Dame life. It is eerie how the horror of Hitler provides a sort ofback­ground music for Gilligan's bm.iliar tales ofyouth at Notre Dame. 
I won't say too much more about the book or the stories in it. They arc for you to discover. There is a valiant effort on the part ofmost of the writers here to down play the romantic side of the Notre Dame experience. They usually fail, but that isn't always bad. 
I haven't been at Notre Dame 
very long. I can't say that I know all 
that much about it. I expected an 
. . ._.;;·lw·.

overdose on all the mythic Notre 
. .. .. .. . ....·· Forewordby
Dame history I've heard. I didn't. It really serves to remind the reader . Father Theodore Hesbur2h, C.S.C. that Notre Dame has, to borrow phrasing from the title ofone ofthe thought thc~y would become what 
trying to_get back to Notre Dame, essays, "The Mystique." they are. Nollf ofusobelieve that but many ofus will. Ifthffi book is The alumni that are often the butt we'll buy Notre Dame underwear any indication as to how I will see ofmany ofour jokes had their own forour g;:-andchildren and spend 
Notre Dame in the future, I jokes about alumni. They never e'!ery free second ofour adult lives 
welcome it. 
The Observer Thursday, December 5, 1985 -page 10 

Sports Briefs 
Interhall football teams which have not yet returned equipment can still do so today from 6:30 p.m. -8:30 at Gate 9 of the Stadium. -The Observer 
The ND Men's Rowing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 5 p.m. in the ACC concourse. For more informa­tion call Chris Nye at 236-4400. -The Observer 
Stepan Center needs student monitors to work Tues­day, Thursday, and Saturday evenings. Applications should be taken to the Student Actlvites Office on the first floor of La Fortune by tomorTOw.-The Observer 
NVA Club and Grad basketball teams must 
turn In all necessary insurance forms to the NVA office in the ACC by tomorrow at '5 p.m. Rosters may be picked up during this time. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus hockey team wm hold practice Sunday at I 1: I 5 p.m. in the ACC. All players should attend and bring 13 for ice time. For more information call Tim Connors at 234-1948. -The Observer 
Women's basketball fans who wish to play an active and visible role in the 1985-86 season should call Kevin at 239-7250 to be a part ofa progressive support group for the team. ­
The Observer 
All Observer Sports Writers and anyone in­
terested in writing sports should attend a meeting tonight in LaFortune Uttle Theater at 6:30. Anyone unable to attend shouldcall Jeff Blumb at 239-5323.-The Observer 

Britain unveils one of the yachts that it will send to America's Cup 
AModated Pre1111 
HAMBLE, England -In a plush red­carpet ceremony, Princess Diana yesterday unveiled "Crusader," the first of two British yachts that will challenge for the 1987 America's Cup. Team officials vowed to win the coveted trophy for the first time. 
"I name this yacht Crusader. God bless her, and all who sail in her," said the Princess, drawing back a vel­vet drape to reveal the sleek white hull ofthe 12-meter yacht. 
Crusader, designed by naval ar­chitect Ian Howlett, is the first of two aluminum craft being built at this picturesque marina on the English south coast for the America's Cup challenge. 
The other British boat, which offi­cials say is of a more radical, almost revolutionary design, is still under construction and due to be com­pleted early next year. 
Both yachts will be shippt·,l to Australia in the spring. Trials for the event, being held off Fremantle near Perth, begin in October next year, with the final series of races scheduled forJanuary, 1987. 
Conspicuous by its absence Wed­nesdaywas Cusader's keel, which of­ficials said deliberately was being kept under wraps until the boat is shipped. 
They disclosed, however, that it was similar in design to that of Australia II, which ended 132 years ofAmerican domination by winning the Cup in 1983 off Newport, R.I. 
The New York Yacht Club, which had held the trophy until Australia Il's famous triumph, is backing one of five American challenges to get thr Cnp back next time. 
Alan Bond, head of the syndicate which backed Australia II, was a surprise visitor to the naming ceremony and admitted the British challenge had a "very serious chance." 
But he added, "The British won't win it ifwe can help it." 
Bond has already launched Australia III to try and defend the trophy in 1987. 
The competition dates back to 18'51 when Britain issued the first' challenge to the United States. 

Iowa State holds memorial service for those killed in airplane crash 
AMoclated Pr.ess 
AMES, Iowa-Thousands offriends and fellow students paid tribute yes­terday to six members and coaches of Iowa State University's women's cross-country team and their pilot, killed in a plane crash last week. 
"In the last several days, we have realized how compassionate the Iowa State University family really is," university President W. Robert Parks said during the service. "Expressions of sympathy have come from near and far." 
The Nov. 25 crash killed pilot Bur­ton Watkins; team members Sheryl Maahs ofSpirit Lake, Susan Baxter of Brentwood, England, and Julie Rose ofAshford, England; team coach Ron Renko; assistant coach Pat Moynihan; and student trainer Step­hanie Streit of Hawarden. 
Federal investigators say it will be at least two months before they know what caused the twin-engine plane to slam into a west Des Moines neighborhood as the team returned from an NCAA meet in Milwaukee, where it had placed second. 
Athletic Director Max l 'rick, his voice breaking, said the Iowa State community "gives our love and thanks to Watkins and Renko and the players." 
"They were young women of hope and ambition...," he said. "We'll still see their coach and we'll still see them running -stirring the wind, and that wind (carrying) the signature of their honor." 
The crowd of 6,000 people in­cluded the surviving members ofthe women's cross-country team, who were dressed in their cardinal and gold warm-up suits. They and mem­bers of the ISU men's team were on two other planes that landed minutes before the ill-fated plane arrived in Des Moines. 
Roger J. Carrick of the British Consulate in Chicago read a letter sent by Eric and Valerie" Baxter, parents ofSusan Baxter. 
"The Baxter tamily sends their lov~ to all the bereaved families," tlw letter said. "Sue thoro·aghly enjoyed her time in Iowa. We offer our sincerest condolences in this unconscionable and most tragic loss oflife." 
lhc· fJh.\ertc•r '••In· I>Jna· ••ftht· ltH..IIt'd 1111 tht llllrd lltutr ,,f IJit•rlunc: 'uu..knt ( c.:ntc·r Jt l t·ph' l.t,,lllc:d J-.h t·n '''n~ In •m ') J rn until • p 111 \It •ndJ\ 
throuJ,th l n~I.J\ I ht' ( Jh.,t•n·er "JIUt \t.Jr\ 'ufhlt' Ittl Jtc:d c111 tht· tlun.J llt~ttr ol 
tiJJ.tJ.t..lr < olkgc· ( c:nlcr Jtll"Pt' liJ,,Ific:d' from 12 "o p m unrd "p m \l11n 
lid\ thiiU):h I nlld\ I lt•Jdllrll· tor Ill'" dd\ , ld"rtinl' " ~ p 111 \II tld'"tint­
mu't ht· prepdrd. l"lthn 111 pn,..n 11r I" llldrl ( hM):<." ltl"·nh pn llH·' hArd<
Classifieds 
tt·r, t·r da\ 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHM 2SoWW7 
TYPING 
277--1 F"EI PICKUP I DIUVPY 
PRO-TYPE -Ov• 11 ,.._ up. SpacMIIzl,. In .,._ Jllll*a. II•
......_, ... .....,., ,_,__ m-
IIUI. 
SHOEHEAD CHRISTMAS 
LOST/FOUND I 
FOUND: A woolen cap on the aldewalk in front t:A the Noire Dame Poet Olfice. May be dafmed in Room 8-1II Fitzpatrlcl< or by 
,.."11~1. 
LOST -BURGUNDY GIRL'S EYE GI.A88ES BETWEEN THE GROTIO BUS STOP AND FLANNER. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL THERESAAT284-4128. 
SOMEHOW I ENDED UP WITH YOUR KEYS! The only prob!Mn ia thai I don't know who you are. " you loat tr8ck t:A your keya 111J*1Y In tha 832 building t:A Noire Dame Apta. and H you want them beclr, contac1 Mary'Belh 11 288-Mn. 
u.T: M.UI NO IIOOK IIAG IN SOUTli DINING HALL ON TliU.._, 11•:11 AT LUNCH. fT HMINITIAI.a MW. PLEASE CALl. .KE 214-1017 PUAU. 
..................... ................................... 
L~: Apair t:A reddllh-lrarned women'a ut---Jn a cream colored CMe. If found. pleMe cal41H. Thant.a. 
STOLEN BLACK WALLET: Tlwela not­hing t:A value left In It 8ince I cancelled II tha ~c and there-no money. Save 101111aembilnce t:J decency lnd liVe me further h..... by jull rwtumlng It And If you •e c.ught IIMIIng anything elae at tha ,_ pool you can IIIP8CI no mercy. Leave it llloat and found or Hanyone hal lound a black wale1 -pleMe cal me or drop " olf. STEVE 24511 117 Pangborn 
FOUND: one WATCH In Brldgeta on tha Fr1day before tha LSU game. Celll023 to dafmlt. 
·~a tire aeuon for loeing tlri~... THERE ARE TWO THINGS I HAVE LOST RECENTLY THAT ARE CRUCIAL FOR MY SURVIVAL ON THIS CAMPUS AT THIS TIME OF YEAR: 1. AN NO CMDIT 
UNION AUTCHILLEJI MACHINE CARD. You know you can't get money out of my account becauae you don't have the aecret ..,_ no. I do. and I need that card! 2. AN LL .EAN GLOVE, LEFT HAND. lt'a navy on the beclr. diny grey on the lront. ~ght blue Mning. 'Take pity on my freezing left handl IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO PAULA MIRANDA.(I'M IN THE DIRECTORY.) THANKS SO MUCHIfIff 
LOST: Someone accidenlly picked up my long. tan(-). wool coat lrorn the coal room 11 the Lyone-FIIIey-Alumni Formal. If you noticed you got tha wrong one. pleaM call Mo: X3023. X21188. or X2986. 
L~: CALCULATOII'I IN IILACK POUCH AT NOII'ITH DINING HALL IIIIONOAY, DEC.2. IF FOUNO, PLEASE CALL J12J.I NI!ED fT FOII'I FINAI..S. 
FOUND SAINT MARY'S RING-CALL PASQUALE AT THE COMMONS TO IDENTIFY. 
LOST: IF YOU WERE AT ALUMNI'S FORMAL NOV 23, YOU MAY HAVE MY COATII MY FRIEND PICKED UP A WOMEN'S LONG BEIGE WOOL COAT WHICH LOOKS A LOT LIKE MINE. IF YOU HAVE A SIMILAR COAT WITH BROWN TRIM AND BROWN BUTIONS PLEASE CALL 284-5543 OR 5528. I HAVE YOURS! 
IJJLOST POCKET WATCH If! Gift From Unte ala lor b-day MUCH Sentimental Value. Clln"t go home without II. BOOZE and BUCKS REWARD fJJ loat near St"P"". PIMaecaltBRIANAT288-5521. 
FOR RENT 
For next aemeeter fumllhed houae 5 badrooma good •ea 1 mile north of N.D. 
2n-3604 
Nice lumllhed homee for next ldloot y­2n-3604 
N1ce aemi-lurn1ahed houae in good neigh­borhood lor 3 -25~3684 
I RDIIOOit HOilE-NEXT SEIIUTEJI.WALKING DISTANCE TO CAIIIPU8.2T.HJOII 

one ..-roommate needed at N.D. Apta.. Only $107/month. For more inlo. 
c.ll Curt at 232-7547 or Shirley at N.D. Apta. 
............................................................... 
Male houaemale(a) needed to lhare ex­,.._ 2nd aemeeter. rent: $90­100/month plua lood & utiitiea locotion: 711 Rex St. Call Mike or Kevin al 233­5715 
................................................................. 
3 BDRM APT. AVAILABLE. MILE FROM NO. CALU!33-7631. 
...................................... Houaelor Rent thia Spring -Napolean St.­Short Walk to Campua 3527 
~ANTED 
SEEKING FEMALE ROOMMATE AT 
N.D. APTS. $112/mo. PLEASE CALL LIZ 288-8110 
WANTED: An apartment for two guya lor apring aemeater. WiN take either a two­peraon or a lou•-peraon place. Prefer Campua View but win tal<e other. Call Mikeal3342. 
SEEKING a ride to ANN ARBOR Thia Weekend Fri.6-Sun.8!WiN Share ax­,.._r8il2155 
Need ridfn lo I.U.•BlOOMINGTON­Leaving Thura. & returning Sat. night call ED at15211. 
Ridln needed to NORTH JERSEY lor Chriatmu break. can leave December 18 or 19. cal Michele 2n-4364. 
need female rider to help driv&-pointa --wyoming. utah, leaving dec. 21at call mary jo 284-5548 or 272 86t6. 
NEED RIDE TO U OF IllDEC 6-8 CALL I<ATHY SMc-4395 
NEED one male roommate lor next aemeater. Turtle Creek. Cell277-2116. 
FOR SALE 
MOOG SYNTHESIZER, exc. cond., $650/olftlf. x3566. 
TOYOTA CELICA 75. RUNS VERY GOOD. SOME RUST. $400 OR BEST OFFER. GALL IGNACIO 2n-oaro. 
SKIS I HAVE 2 PR. OF ROSSI EXCEL SGrS. AN INTERMEDIATE DOWNHILl SKI. IN A STORE THEY ARE $200/PR.. I ONLY WANT 11211 CALL JOE. 3436. 
Go X Mu lhopping thru Amway Santa 1 coming I 11811 perfume atereoa jewelry diet drinka coametica 10 apeed bikea money backguara niH call Maii9-1AM ext7193 
234-2000 
Garage for rent 40$/month 5 min fmm nd 2 car ll'lfBIIe 1 block weal ol campus view new London Lake 272-3491 
Good deal on new 125 wall p/channel apeak.,. w/llquid cooled lweetero. Best 
offer. Call Kevin-3311. 
TICKETS 
LOYOLA QAa lor Ule.272-e301 
PERSONALS 
··:r;;~··;;;;;·;~;·~-~~~··;;;·~-i;;~;;iy·;;;;;: 
ment ia to enjoy it. 
-A1chard Bach, Thellrlclge Aeroae Forevw 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UOUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 SLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
.....................................·.........:.,............... 
Earn $$$ for all thoae booka you didn't read!! PANDORA'S wil buy your uaed booka M-F 11-4. or we can help you find a uaecl book for a clall. we·re open M-F 11­
6. S.'T & SUN 10-5. PANDORA'S Ia op­poaite CORBY'S at 937 South Bend Ave. 
Need a ride to and from Chicago? Ridal lo and lrom Chicago, Fly cheaper than the lllrtinea! Cell Planemuter Sarvicaa Inc. 312-!ln-5730 
FOR SALE NAD 6040 CASSETIE DECK-EXC COND CALL 288­8529(1201 DIAMOND) 
Communial Rag From Hell number 2 ia cominr \ ...ur Na, socr 
D.C. X·MAB .LJS ~.. 1p1 Mon. 12/9 2nd FINlf LaF 011une ; ·8pm $68 Ad. Trip ?"1 callt<evin Viroate< ~t 1 062 
TH~•NK VOU ST JUDE 

THE BRIDE IS BACK YOU'RE INVITED TO THE OFF CAMPUS & AUGUSTA HALL WEDDINGLESS RECEPTION THURSDAY. DEC.5 9pm-2pm SAINT MARY'S CLUBHOUSE 21 10 REQUIRED Tickets on sale Mon-Thura at SMC Chrillmaa Bazaar and Senior Bar Weda 
HUNGRY? Calf YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Houra: Wed-Thura 5pm-12am; Friday 5pm-2am; Saturday 3pm-1am\ Sunday4pm-10pm 
PHILLY PHILLY PHILLY PHILLY Sig­nups for the Philly bua for XMAS break -Thura. Dec 5. 8pm in Lafortune. ?a call Dave G. 3270 
HAY FEVER HAY FEVER HAY FEVER 
CATCH IT! O"LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM THAU5­DAY. FRIDAY, SATURDAY. BE THERE' 
RAFFLE RAFFLE RAFFLE 
REGINA HALL 
11 having a raffle for over 100 doltara worth of NEW raquetball equipment! If you want your CHANCES call Mary Flynn or Jennifer Darrow 
Are you lrom Michigan and North Quad? W«e you out throwing anow at 1 a.m. MOQday? Remember the guy milling hia left eye? Buoy Saturday night? Marl< (1373) 
OUT TO LUNCH? help 5 NO gr8dalvolu­watklng In Pu.-to ,.leo 3 FRI. DEC 8, Center lor Social COf>o carne 
EXTRAI El!TfiAI Dice and Fiah ll"a an item!! (now you've read it in the paper) 
T0:1130FTHEIT. 
IS THAT A LEFTOVER BOMB WE SAW IN YOUR CLEISET?? 
C&D 

To: The third culeat girt in--­
Now you've gol it. DO YOU KNOW WHAT TO DO WITH IT I?! 
R&N HEAVE HOltz Remember. you hMrd 1t hsrefll"lt! 

..................\. ... 

Hello. Peoplee Expreaa.l'd like a fhght ioGEORGETOWN U lo see my big bro MIKE GREEN and fnend JEAN MCHUGH. lhMr they give apecral treat· menl lo OUT OF CONTROL MUNCHKINS II lhe K-6.Thanka for one auper weekend everyone, even if I wu lorced to be a dean1ng lady tor a dayl!! Gilt out the ICE1 HEE HEE LOVE. MAGGIE 
GAMS. Thank you 10 much lor tak1ng such good care ol me! Slowly. but aurely, thmga wiff return lo order. Always youra. MIKE. 
ATIENTION Dear Ms. Lady in Red and the "'" With aenauouo hands. II you think your P.P.A. (pleuure potential average) endl at 3.8 you ain't oeen aeen nothin yet. Maybe, il your good girts. we'll worktogetheronget­ting il higher. Love, Mr. Saliofact,on 
P.S. Thanx lor Thankaolving, I LOVE YOU. 
HEY POTSY. YOU'RE GOING DOWN YOU BIG CHEESE! lt'a onow plow time lor Riggins & The Fndge(T.W.&J.D.). 
SHOEHEAD IS COMING 

Dear Zoro. Happy 22nd S1rthday! Love. a Playboy Bunny 
Noiae mualc newaletter aaya ··No·· to group1 like Duran Duran, Wham!, and Phil Coltina. Noiae uya YES to groups like the Replacements. Hual<er Du. Aun­D.M.C., and A.E.M. Watch lor the firat iaaue of thio puppy early next week (we uaed lo be called Communial Flag From Hell, but got bored with that name). II you're intereated In helping ua. cal Pat at 4506 or Tim al 1243. Tll<e that. Huey Lewis!!! 
Thanka lor a great break. Ma and Suck­wheat! 
To the culeal Chriatmu Caroler I've ever oeen but haven"! !11el yet: I wu too lhy lo kiaa you under the miatleloe Monday night but l"d like to have another chance. 
You've aeen them. You've hMrd about them. Now you can get them I HOOP HYSTERIA T-SHIATS lor Logan Center ahort or long aleevea Call 2078 or 2089 for delivery. 

The Observer Thursday, December 5, 1985 -page 11 

Holtz 
continuedfrompage 16 
Because the career moves that are often made in college coaching have a great effect on the life of the coach's entire family, Holtz claims that any move his father makes is al· ways discussed by the entire family. The decision to go to Notre Dame was no exception. 
"The whole family sits down and talks about any move my father is thinlding about making," said Holtz. "We make some comment-s but we want to do what will make dad the happiest." 
And from the way Holtz sounds about his father's new job, it seems that both Holtz Sr. andJr. couldn't be happier. 
"It's always been a dream for my father to coach at Notre Dame," noted Holtz, "and I'm pumped that he is going to be here. The reason that I came to Notre Dame is that I was sold on the tradition and the excitement when I visited the campus. Now my father will be a part ofNotre Dame." 
Although his father may just be 

With spies like these who needs enemies? 

WARNER BROS. Preserns ALANDIS/FOl.SEY Film An A.A.R.-BERNIE BRILI..STEIN-BRIAN GRAZER Production CHEVY CHASE· DAN AYKROYD ·"SPIES LIKE US" STEVE FORREST· DONNA DIXON ·BRUCE DAVISON BERNIE CASEY· WILLIAM PRINCE· TOM HATTEN Music~ ELMER BERNSTEIN Executive Producer BERNIE BRILI..STEIN Screenplay by DAN AYKROYD and LOWELL GANZ &. BABALOO MANDEL Srory bv DAN AYKROYD &. DAVE THOMAS Pttxb:ecl bv BRIAN GRAZER and GEORGE FOLSEY, JR. Dim:red by JOHN LANDIS 



Track Titem Down December 6th at a Theatre Near You. 
the most recognized personality at 
the university, Holtz is not trying to 
cash in on his father's fame. Claiming 
that "he is not going out and spray 
painting his name on the back of all 
his shirts," Holtz is just happy that 
his family will be around South Bend 
when he wants to visit them. 
"Everyone would like their 
parents to be around when they 
want to talk about something," he 
said. "Now I won't have to drive 12 
hours to see my mom and dad or 
wait to talk to them during a 
weekend phone call. Their house 
will be a place for me to go and get 
away from school and my grades." 
Holtz, who won't be graduating 
until the fall of 1986, added that he is 
very excited about seeing his fat· · her's first Irish team next year. 
"At Arkansas I only got to see two 
or three games a year and catch the 
other scores on TV," noted Holtz, 
"but next year I will be in the stands 
for every game." 
But winning or losing doesn't 
really seem to be a top priority for 
Holtz. No matter how the Irish and 
his father fair next season, Holtz will 
always think of the man running the 
~how'on tht· ~•lklmt·' as "just dad." 

Lendl easily defeats Lloyd 
MELBOURNE, Australia · Top­seeded Ivan Lend! ofCzechoslovakia steamrollered his way through the final two sets to defeat Britain's john Uoyd 7·6, 6-2, 6-1 yesterday in the quarterfinals of the Australian Open tennis tournament. 
The 26-year-old Czech, aiming to win the Australian tide for the first time, struggled through the first set, but then used his power serves to good effect and romped to victory in one hour, 44 minutes. 
The unseeded Uoyd, who had beaten seeds Tomas Smid and Joakim Nystrom on his way to the last eight of the grass court event, found his own serve had deserted him. 
"I had no chance against a player of his caliber if I could only get 50 percent ofmy first serves in," the 31· year-old Englishman said. 
Gift Certificates from Red Lobster: So you want to give a special gift to your seafood-laving friend or relative. But you just can't seem to find apractical WC!:f to wrap it 
Red lobster has the perfect solution: the $5 or $10gift certificate, good for any of the delicious seafood gifts on our menu. 
Even the hardest to please on your gift list will love our live Maine lobster. Or our Alaskan snow crab legs. Tender shrimp. Ora most delectable catch-of-the-day. 
So stop shopping, stop in to your nearest Red Lobster, and wrap up all your gift-buying needs ... in one very tasteful package. 
Red lobster® 201 West McKinley Mishawka 256-1565 
·--~-­

-~~-----' -------------­The Observer Thursday, December 5, 1985-page 12 
Irish freshmen class looks very promising 


Irishfreshmen Diondra Toney (21 ), Heidi Bunek 
(
44) and Lisa Kuhns (14)figure to play a big role 

By MARlY STRASEN 
Sports Writer 
For the Dame women's basketball 
team, the future looks bright with 
the addition of three freshmen to a 
squad which posted a 20-8 record 
last season. 
Head Coach Mary DiStanislao 
hopes to take take her squad to the 
NCAA Tournament this year and ex­
pects Heidi Bunek, Usa Kuhns and 
Diondra Toney to make significant 
strides in their first year with the 
Irish. 
"This year's freshmen are very 
talemed Individually," she says. 
"They're going to fill some real 
needs on the team. The only real 
pressure on them is to become bet­
ter players with each passing day." 
The prospect of6-4 forward Heidi 
Bunck improving as the season 
progresses is a scary thought for op­
posing players and a reason for hope 
on the part ofNotre Dame basketball 
supporters. The Milwaukee, Wis. 
native was labelled by many as the 
top prep player In the country last 
season. She averaged 24.8 points and 
1 0 rebounds per game last year and 
earned first-team all-America honors 
in a number ofnational publications. "Heidi is going to be a very good college player," DiStanislao says. "She's tall, talented and has a very ·good shooting touch. Her role on 
the team will develop as she learns 
the college game and discovers how 
to push her limits." 
Learning the college game in­
volves gaining experience through 
Increased floor time. In this respect, 
Bunek is already off to an impressive 
start. She opened her college career 
by scoring I 0 points in an Irish loss 
to Purdue and followed up with a 
21-point game In Monday's 94-65 
triumph over Western Michigan. 
Bunck's height adds rebounding strength to the Notre Dame front line, an aspect of her game which serves to increase her value to the future of the Irish women's hoops squad. 
In the backcoun, explosive Oiondra Toney can be expected to add her quick ball-handling. passing and shootinjl sldlls to the Notre Dame outside game. The speedster 
from Chicago averaged 1 7 points, 
seven rebounds and five assists as a 
high school senior and was named 
second-team Parade All-American. 
Coach DiStanislao expects Toney 
to utilize her speed on both ends of 
the coun during the 1985-86 cam­
paign. 
"She's a very valuable player," she 
says. "She played a jack-of-all-trades 
role in high school and has a wide 
variety ofskills. Didi is a tJoor leader 
with a lot of confidence and great 
passing skills. As she improves her 
defensive skills, her contribution to 
the team will increase." 
Toney certainly has the raw talent 
to help the Irish defensively, as her 
speed on the press is sure to in­
timidate opposing guards. Coach 
DiStanislao looks to find a position in 
the backcoun for Toney and is wil­
ling to move her from point to 
shooting guard in order to increase 
her playing time. 
Sharpshooter Usa Kuhns rounds 
out the freshman trio, bringing her 
18.3 point-per-game high school scoring average to the women's team. Coach DiStanislao looks for­ward to the offensive punch Kuhns will provide as she gains experience on the college level. 
"Usa is a very, very good shooter 
with excellent range from the 
outside," she says. "She has good 
basketball instincts on the court." 
Her shooting touch and a handful 
ofhigh school records earned Kuhns 
national honorable mention status 
from Converse, Street and Smith, 
and USA Today. There are, accord­
ing to Coach DiStanislao, a couple of 
areas she must improve on before 
she reaches her full potential as a 
college basketball player. 
"Usa has to become stronger and 
more intense in her game," she said. 
"The shooting is there but she has to 
work on gaining confidence. I look 
for her to really contribute as thos<: :things come." 
While Coach DiStanislao looks for ways to improve the play of th<: three newcomers, Irish basketball fans can look forward to the added excitement of watching them play during the next four years. 

Preview 
continuedjrompage 16 
"We've been pointing toward this for the last four years," said DiStanis­lao. "We've got a strong senior class, freshmen who will contribute, andthe kids arc willing to work. Our goal is to be a team good enough to get in the NCAA tournament. 
"Trena (Keys) will have to push herself farther and she will have to push her teammates. She knows bet­ter than anyone how the good teams play and what it takes to be a good 
team." 
All teams, good and bad, know how good Keys plays. The 6-1 Marion, Ind. native led the Irish in scoring ( I 7. 2 points per same) and added 5.6 rebounds per game last season to anchor a dangerous front coun. In addition to the:sc figures, team co-captain Keys dished out a second-best 67 assists, a team­leading 43 blocked shots and 37 steals. Though double-teamed much of the time, Keys almost always hit the clutch shot or found the open man when the Irish most needed it. 
"She has a lot of talent and can score in so many different ways," said DiStanislao. "And now she's a senior with four years under her belt. There wasn't a great burden placed on her last year to be a scorer, but she took it upon herse.lfand did a great job. She'll be up to the task again this year." 
Keys should get plenty ofhelp un­derneath from her tall teammates on the front line. 6-2 sophomore center Sandy Botham is a strong rebounder several talented and versatile 
guards. Poised sophomore Mary 
Gavin will do most of the ball han­
dling. although she will be pressed 
by experienced senior Denise Bas­
ford. Gavin set a Notre Dame record 
for assists last season and should get 
the chance to hit from the outside 
more often with opponents keying 
on the Irish front line. 
"We're in good shape at the point 
for the first time ever," said DiStanis· 
lao. "We have a good perimeter 
shooting team, although that hasn't 
shown itselfyet this season. If we use 
good judgement we will be a good 
shooting team." 
At the wing guard, meanwhile, will be 6-0 senior co-captain Lynn Ebben and sophomore Kathy Bar· ron. Ebben, who also can play for­ward, came on strong at the end of last year to pace the Irish attack from the perimeter. 
Perhaps the most unusual aspect ofthe 1985-86 Irish, though, is that a trio of freshmen who will be called on to play big roles. Forward Heidi Bunek comes with national awards and honors, and should step in im· mediately to the front line. 5-10 Usa Kuhns, meanwhile, will chip in from the wing for the Irish, and quick point guard Diondra Toney will handle the ball off the bench or play the wing. 
"All the freshmen have seen time this year, and they're all going to contribute," noted DiStanislao. "All things considered, this year I think we have the potential to be an even better team than last year. We haven't proved anything yet (the Irish are 1-1 on the season), but we have a challenging schedule with some big games right off the bat." 


Football 
continuedfrom page 16 
"We had some adversity," he said, 
"but we also had some great times.'' 
Faust, who was choked up at one 
point in his speech, received astand· 
ing ovation when he finished speak­
ing. 
New York Yankee President 
George Steinbrenner, best known 
for his managerial revolving door in 
New York, served as guest speaker 
for the banquet. 
Pinkett, a 5-9, 181-pound native of Sterling. Va., capped off his Notre Dame career with a senior season that saw him carry the ball 255 times for 1,100 yards and 11 touchdowns. : He started all I1 games for the Irish In '85, to finish his career with 35 
consecutive game started. 
Pinkett leaves Notre Dame with 
just about every rushin~: record in 
his name. He is the all-time Irish 
l~der in career rushing attempts 
(899), rushing yards ( 4·,131 ), rus­
hing touchdowns (49), total touch­
downs (53), total points ( 320), 
average rushing yard~ per game 
(96.I in 43 games), IOO-yard games (21 ), and all-purpose yardage (5,259). 
who was a plt:;u;ant surprise for DiS· 
tanislao last season as an immediate 
contributer. Botham's quick moves 
to the hoop allowed her to shoot 53 
percent from the floor for 9.4 ppg. In 
addition, she hauled down 5.1 
rebounds toward the Irish cause. 
Awhole platoon ofplayers will vie for the other forward spot with 5-I1 junior Lavetta Willis and 6-2 sop· homore Kathy Brommcland as the most experienced of the group. Brommcland adds a nice outside shooting touch for a forward ( 4.2 ppg), while Willis comes back from academic ineligibility after an im­pressive rookie year off the bench. Meanwhile, 6-5 sophomore center Beth Morrison, the tallest player in Notre Dame history, will come in to spell Botham on occasion. 
"The thrust of our offense is designed to get the inside people 50 percent ofour shots," said DiStanis­lao. "That's going to take people working to get position to get these shots. We're going to need to find the chemistry and the right people. 
"But we have the potential to have great depth here. We'll need to have Botham make her presence felt. With our size we should be a good rebounding team." 
Rebounding will be especially im­portant this year to give the Irish an effective transition game to go with their powerful inside game. 
"I'm going to miss ( 1985 graduate) Mary Beth Schueth ( 11.3 ppg and 7.7 rebounds per game)," noted DiStanislao. "We'd really like to pick up the tempo and run. If we rebound well we should get more chances for easy buckets." 
Responsible for any fast breaks as well as perimeter shooting. will be 
said have "literally paved the way for 
me." 

When he made his speech as team captain later in the evening, Pinkett urged the younger players to "make all the traditon and mystique in­volved with Notre Dame important to you," and to "take pride in the Notre Dame uniform and the gold helmet. 
"And always remember what hap­pened in Miami," he added. "The beauty of sports is that you always get a second chance. And when you get that chance in two years, do it for me." 
Scannell, a 6-4, 278-pound native of State College, Pa., was one of Pinkett's key blockers over the past four years. A three-year starter on the offensive line, Scannell started 28 of the last 29 games of his Irish career and was a second-team All· American pick on the Football News all-star squad this season. 
Dorsey finished founh overall among Irish tacklers this year with 84 ( 31 solos) and first in tackles for lost yardage (I 5 for 73 yards). A 6-5, 270-pound native of McLean, Va., Dorsey also had three sacks, three fumbles caused and two fumbles recovered, while starting every game in '85. 
Dingens, a 6-5, 257-pounder from 
ship candidtate, Dingens already has been admitted to the University of Michigan Medical School. 
A four-time monogram winner, Dingens is a two-time second-team Academic All-American. He alreay has made the district team for 'RS and is listed on the national ballot being distributed for voting this week to all members of the College of Sports Information Directors of America. 
Athletic Director Gene Corrigan, who served as master ofceremonies, read two telegrams addressed to Steinbrenner. One was from John Cardinal O'Connor, the other from comedien Bob Hope. In his telegram, Hope asked Steinbrenner, "Why are you coming? The coach is already leaving." 
Steinbrenner described how Ath· letic Director Emeritus Edward "Moose" Krause had invited him to the banquet. 
"(Krause) asked me if I believed in free speech," Steinbrennersaid. "I told him, 'Sure I do.' He said, 'That's good, because you're going to give 
one."' 
Steinbrenner praised Faust, saying "while his record as a coach is not one of the best in the country, his record as a man is unparalleled." 
The Yankee president also cited some of his own personal negative 

Sophomore center Sandy Botbam is sboum in action last year  In his acceptance speech, Pinkett  Bloomfield Hills, Mich., has a 3.77  experiences In order to encourage  
against DePaul. The 6-2 Botbam figures to be a crucial part ofthe  thanked  individually  the  Irish of­ grade  point  average  as  a  pre­ the  Notre  Dame  players  to  
Irish inside game this year. Marty Burnspreviews the what isahead  fensive  linemen,  tight  ends,  ful­ professional major in the College of  overcome their own adversity, both  
for tbe Notre Dame women's basketball team on page 16.  lbacks and wide receivers, who he  Arts and Letters. A Rhodes Scholar- on and off the field.  


-----------~-~--··--. 
The Observer Thursday, December 5, 1985-page 13 
FOR ALL YC•UR EYE CARE NEEDS­
COMPLETE EXAMS 
contacts, glasses NO /SMC students, F acuity and Staff Show Your 1.0. and Receive 
20 ·;.OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
Excluding Specials 

ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 
1341 Portage

1635 N.lronwood 
234·2400

277-1161 
Martin's Shopping

South of U.S. 23 
Center 

Irish 
continued from page 16 
( 2:13.6 ). Also, Harding had a pivotal role on the record-setting 400-yard medley relay team. 
Junior Chris Green, last year's most improved swimmer, is back again. Also back is the strong but­terfly-one-two punch ofMarkJensen and Chris Walsh. 
In the short-distance freestyle events, sophomores Jeff Grace, Ron Hartzell and John Kosdka look to power the Irish to higher point to­tals. ' 
This group of talented swimmers, combined with the excellent coach­ing skills of Welsh and the new world-class swimming facilities, should provide the 1985-86 Notre Dame men's swim team with a very successful season. 
After many months of training, this season will begin in earnest tomorrow. 
fZFTURNS TO THE A.C.C. THI~ THUR.5DAY DECEMBER SJ1~S 7:30P.M.MAIN ARENA A.C.C. 
.. 


Freshman Boyd starts season well; wrestling team travels to Las Vegas 
By EDJORDANICH 
Sports Writer 
Fran McCann and his wrestling team, along with freshman standout Pat Boyd, are headed for the land of sand, Sinatra and slot machines. 
The Showboat Hotel in Las Vegas, Nev. will be the site for this weekend's Las Vegas Invitational, and the Irish, along with some 40 ot· her teams, will exhibit their talent against the likes of NCAA powers Oklahoma, Oklahoma State and Arizona State. 
One ofthe principal performers in McCann's traveling show is Boyd, the 142-pound freshm;m from Mount Pleasant, Mich. Part of the quintet of first-year wrestlers com­ing into Notre Dame with national acclaim, Boyd has impressed both McCann and Irish opponents im­mediately with third and fourth­place finishes at the Michigan State Invitational and the St. Lolllis Open, respectively. 
Boyd came to Notre Dame after an 
almost perfect career a1t Mount 
Pleasant High School. An overall 
EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY l HOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
~HUUI 
Ill ~11/liiHI 

'""' ""'""' ' ••, '""" · ~1'!11 ~~ 111
674-6993 ~~ ~ ~~~~ •,1t !IJIU ft
255-3068 1 e ',., 1111111111111111 I or call your Travel Agent 11111111 
~~lllllllllllllilil,t I -~lltiiJIIIPIIIIIIr.l 

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS: 
GREMLINS 
Friday & Saturday, Dec. 6th & 7th 
Times: S1.50 
7:00 
9:15 
11:30 
Hall of 
Engineering 
record of 168-1 included three state championships. A semifinal loss in the 98-pound state tournament his freshman year proved to be Boyd's only loss. First-place finishes and un­defeated seasons at 105, 132 and 138 pounds made him a highly sought-after wrestler during his senior year ofhigh school. 
"I've really always dreamt about coming to Notre Dame," said Boyd. "I wanted to stay close to home and the prospect of working with two great coaches iJ.i a building program was what I really liked. I was recruited by Michigan State, Central Michigan, Michigan and North Carolina, but Notre Dame was what I wanted in a lot ofways." 
Now that he has been at Notre Dame and wrestled against some ex­cellent competition, Boyd is making his mark due to a combination offac­tors. 
"Pat is very intelligent," said Mccalm. "He is mentally mature for a freshman and is always in control. He's matured even more since he's been here. He doesn't get flustered out on the mat and this all-business approach is a definite advantage for Pat. 

"Pat still has to get bigger," he continued. "He wrestles against kids who are filled out more than he is. Once he gets bulkier and adds to his frame, he'll be even better. He's al­ready a strong kid. He did 50 pull­ups and 7 4 bar-dips at our strength testing, and there's no question he is really an excellent athlete." 
For Boyd, the transition to college wrestling has been aided by two ot­her freshmen who wrestle at the weight classes right above and below him (134 and 150). Jerry Durso, who captured first place at 134-pounds at the St. Louis Open, and Greg Goad, who returns to the team after sitting out a month with an injury, are Boyd's workout partners and two more newcomers in McCann's five-star recruiting class. 
"Jerry, Greg and (assistant coach) Jolin Azevedo have helped me a lot," said Boyd. "The intensity of college wrestling is really different from high school and I have to be men­tally prepared each time I go on the mat. By working with these guys, we all learn and improve." 
Boyd emphasized that he and the other freshmen are wrestling with confidence due to the leadership of McCann, Azevedo and the up­perclassmen. 
"The coaches are excellent," he said. "Our goals are to qualify for na­tionals and by gaining experience against such good wrestlers we hope to peak at the right time. We had a super preseason of running and lif­ting and our mat time came later. We won't burn out. Coach McCann knows what it takes to win a match. The basics are going to win matches for us. 
"The sophomores, juniors and seniors .are super teachers and teamates," continued Boyd. "We are a really close team. John Krug (Irish captain) is a real leader. He represents the university well and has been a real inspiration to me and all the freshmen. The experience the older wrestlers have is helping us a great deal." 
The son of his high school wres­tling coach, Boyd's good technique and balance of strength and quick­ness has helped him establish him­self immediately as a winner. His ability and confidence are two ofthe three for The competition in Las Vegas will be trademarks evident in McCann's wrestlers. The other trademarkis winning. 
The competition in Las Vegas will be another building block for McCann's young team, as it gains momentum in its efforts for national honors. 
The Observer Thursday, December 5, 1985 -page 14 
Track participants show concern 
over loss of athletic sponsorship 
HOUSTON -Coaches and athletes expressed extreme concern yester­day over the loss ofsupport by shoe companies for track and field ath­letes and club teams. 
".A lot ofcompanies have dropped athletes who have depended on income from them," said Russ Rogers, coach at Fairleigh Dickinson University and coach of the men's team that won the championship in the 1985 World Cup meet. 
"A lot of the middle-of-the-road athletes can't depend on the money they win in European meets, be­cause it's usually the super athletes who win the money," he added. "For the athletes trying to work their way up, it's difficult for them to make money. 
"The clubs also are cutting back or not operating anymore because they don't have the resources, ell­her. It worries me." 
The coaches and athletes are gat­hered in Houston for the seventh annual convention of The Athletics Congress, the Indianapolis-based na­tional governing body for track and field. 
Fred Thompson, coach of the Atoms Track Club of Brooklyn, N.Y., and an assistant coach of the U.S. women's team for the 1988 Olympic Games, lamented there weren't many clubs left. "I have a club team, but I feel like a dinosaur. The small clubs are having big problems. 
''I'm not saying that anyone owes anyone a living," continued Thompson. "But when the shoe company concept came out years ago, it was beautiful. The companies supported the athletes through last year." 
Last year, ofcourse, was an Olym­pic year, and after the Los Angeles Games, in which the United States track and field teams performed ex­ceptionally well -in part because of the Soviet-led boycott -shoe com­
panies  began  dropping athletes.  
Some  did  it  slowly,  others  in  
bunches.  

"That support dried up," said Stephanie Hightower, the American record holder in the women's 100­meter high hurdles. "Nobody is giving anyone anything anymore." 
Hightower had been a member of the Bud Ught Track Club; the group now has completely collapsed. 
The club's roster had included numerous world-class athletes, such as Calvin Smith, the world record holder in the 100-meter dash, and Larry Myricks, the 1979 World Cup long jump gold medalist. 
"The shoe companies have done a great job of taking care of the ath­letes, and I hope they continue," said Mel Rosen, coach at Auburn Univer­sity and coach of the men's team for the 1987 World Championships. 
"With the shoe companies back­ing offand the clubs breaking up, we may be going back to the old days where the athletes will stop compet­ing when they finish college," added Rosen. "And that worries me." 
The coaches and athletes agreed that some of the shoe companies are interested in the athletes only during Olympic years. 
"Every four years, the nation turns on the tube and wants to feel proud," said Thompson. "Every four years, the people like to hear the Star Spangled Banner and see the ath­letes on the (medal) platforms. 

"If they want that, they have to support the athletes. They have to make a commitment." 
"I think it's a must that an athlete be a full-time athlete to be world­class," said Rogers. "It's too hard to work and compete. The competi­tion is too keen. You have to com­pete full time to be consistent. 
Rogers said that some companies "got hurt" in 198~ when they had to pay bonuses "they didn't expect" to athletes who performed above ex­pectation during the Olympics. The bonuses had been agreed upon before the Socialist Bloc nations an­nounced their boycott. 
As a solution, Rogers suggested that shoe companies "take a group of about 10 to 1 5 athletes and put them on their payrolls for about three or four years." 
"Tell them," said Rogers," 'I want you to try and win a medal.' Show them you have faith in them. Then, the athletes wouldn't be switching shoe companies during Olympic years.'' 
~(umni­~SenieJr [fu6 \~ctafs: 1· 
Tonight Music with MAX, come out for some Glory Days!!! $.80 cents Mixed Drinks and $.50 cents Haagen-Daz !!! 


MID -EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
•· Ve,.tanM ct tkat D&.lwo FOODS 
SHAWBiU.IA. IIUGBDERA -BABA GHENOUJ HOMMUS-FBLAFEL TEBBOULI SALAD 
•"NO • J..EBANESB STYLI: 
SOUTH""' . GVROS 
• Pita Sll41ed Scwlol>idla 
• DeU.Itl/uJ Pa.lrie•• Turll&.lt Coif~• 288-5639 
Tu•• • Sal 6:JOPM -9:30PM COMPLETE (';ATENNG FOR 838 Portage
PARTIES .a 8ANQUET8 lOi.Discount for ND/SMC Students 
,.................,
: . 
: Attention Sports WrHersl 
Mandatory Meeting Thursday, 6:30p.m. LaFortune Little Theater 
i• 
If you have written apoft8thi•yearor are interested In writing~ for The Observer, you muat attend thia meeting or call Jeff Blumb at 239-5323 before Thursday night 
~~................ J 

"I brinRoutthe WQd d1ina ,
1br Pizza-HuLSpedalDeliverY"' 
Chairman Mao 


~~--~----~~----------­

Today_____________________
Th_u_r_s_d_ay_._o_e_c_e..m_h_e_r_s_.1_9_s_s__p_a_ge_t_s 

Bloom County 
IICCeff TH~ ·ro 6Vff(f!HfN&. 1!6?6 
51TVI/1TON••. 1511 ~XIV•. Strrr.t IIN/lTO &m'Y PURffJf%, fl(}WN/ 1/N~F? H611VeN ... 
II 7/M£ 1lJ t.AI/&H,\ 11 7!Me7lJCRY, A 7TM6 1lJ t./Vlf, 11 nMC wPIE-­
H 
\ 

Zeto 

(M AFAAID IT AAS To 00 \.liTH YCVR. CCMP­UTER PRlNTERS. '1'00 
SEE: THAi DOT-MATRIX. 
GRATE:S ON ONE!s EYE5 
AFTER AWHILE. 
The Daily Crossword 


ACROSS 1 Ring stone 5 Ms Falana 9 Whaler with 
a mission 13 Diva offering 14 Rapunzel's 
prison 15 Soundunlt 16 Savvy 18 Arabian bread 19 Prosperous 
times 20 Crosscut i.e. 21 One of the 
Society Islands 23 Up­
(comered) 25 Grant 26 Postpones 29 Flowers 32 Contemporary 
of Freud 33 Drover's group 34 Consomme 36 Untruth 37 Evening 
gatherings 40 Alt: Fr. 41 Debt notes 4-Palmas 43 Raised 5 Lerner's 44 Championship collaborator 46 Foliated rocks 6 -up (confess) 48 Author Paul 7 For lear that 49 Saintly symbol 8 Telephone 50"-Bulba" numbers 52 Messenger 9 Is ambitious 54 Long fish 10 Haughty 
55. Ferrigno 11 Oppositionist 58 Fledgling • 12 TV's Arthur 
sound 14 Despots 59 Theworks 17 Chemical 62 Facility compounds 63 Swings at 22 Holbrook 
times 23 Mug contents 64 City on the 24 Hillary's 
Oka conquest 65 Arab port 26 Ankle bones 66 Hibernia 27 So long, amigo 67 Spectral 28 Greens 
dressing DOWN 30 Provoked 1 Hawaiian 31 Roman dictator 
Island 33 Trumpeter AI 2 Stage item 35 Hammer head 3 Affectation 38 Outmoded 
Wednesday's Solution 
C A R D S 
A P 0 R T I""'ISWAT
INEE COLA 
F A C E C A R D S MALAR 
P R E F A CE.AMANDAS 
1-T Ko•fHi EM
P R E C E P T S DEIP l 0 Y L0 RA~A C K~L I V E
A M I R A L A N S A R E A 
S E E D Y E R A T C A R T M 0 S SIE 
smR 0 T E S T S 
AMPS.PAC­
PAR AS 
OL•.!IRATES
C A R D G R 0 V E I D I 0~ K I T E E D G E S N 0 0 N 
E S T E S T E N T S A R S 
39 Presidential 53 507 
painter 55 Milan money 42 Make an edge 56 Inimitable 45 Those elected Individual 47 Stevedore gp. 57 Repulsive 4{1 Heehaws 58 Legume 5i Consent 60 Gowrong 52 Be In charge 61 Garden tool 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
~--------------~ ~-------­

Kevin Walsh 
-:-:........ . 
~"" J 

Campus 
•6:30 
P.M. ·Meeting, RASTA, Isis Gallery, 3rd floorRileyArtBuildmg 

•7:00 
P.M. · Meeting, Notre Dame · Saint Mary's Women's Caucus, Pasquerilla East Chapel Lounge 

•7:00 
P.M. · Thursday Night Fllm Series, "Page ofMadness", Loft 

•7:00 
P.M. and IO:OO P.M.· SAB Fllm, "West Side. Story", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S 1.00 e7:00 P.M. · 10:00 P.M.. Junior Class Chrlst:mas Party, Ballroom, LaFortune Stu­dent Center, Sponsored byJunior Class 

•7:30 
P.M. Lecture, Georgia Frey, Democratic candidate U.S. Senate, New Or­leans Room, LaFortune Student Center, Sponsored by Notre Dame L-5 Society 

•7:30 
P.M.· Basketball, Notre Dame Women vs. Michigan, ACC Arena 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's Turkey with Dressing Baked Meatloaf with Mushroom Gravy BeefStuffed Pepper Sweet and SOur Pork Cheese Steak Sandwich Broccoli Cheddar Quiche 
Hungarian Noodle Bake  
TV Tonight  
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 8:30P.M. 9:00P.M.  16 22 16 22 16 22 16 22 16 22 28 16 46 16 22 28  NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News NBC Ni!Jhtly News CBS Evening News MASH Three's Company Barney Miller WKRP In Cincinnati Bill Cosby Show Magnum, PI Shadow Chasers Family Ties Ugbt for Uving Cheers Simon and Simon Dynasty II: The Colbys  9:30P.M. 10:00P.M. V:OOP..M. 11:30P.M. 12:00P.M.  


A lucky night for Goldy. 
. 

•8:00 
P.M. Lecture, "Meaning of Medugorje", Reverend Ed O'Connor, C.S.C., 

•8:00 
P.M. · Lecture, "liturgy and Justice", Professor Gregory Baum, Saint Michael's Col· lege, University of Toronto, library Auditorium, Sponsored by Theology Depart: ment 

•8:00 
P.M.· Exxon Lecture, Theme: Meaning and the Self, Professor John R Perry, Biologi­cal Sciences Auditorium, Sponsored by Exxon Lecture Series, College ofArts and Letters, and DepartmentofPhilosophy 

•8:
I 0 P.M. · Theater Production , "Hay Fever", O'Laughlin Auditorium, Students: S4.00, General Admission: S5.00 and S6.00 


University  of Notre  Dame,  little  Theater,  
LaFortune  Student  Center,  Sponsored  by  
Thomas More Society  

16 Ni!Jht Court 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 46 Mann for Modem Man 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 WSJV Newswatch 28 }4 Ni!Jhtly Business Report 
46  Praise: the Lord  
16  Toni!Jht Show  
22  Ni!Jhtheat/CBS  Late  Movie:  
"Kings Crossing"  

28 ABC News Ni!Jhtllne 34 Wild World ofAnimals 28 Eye on Hollywood 
-
'I'CX/RE GOIN& TO 1-t\VE 
TO TYPE 7HEM OOT. MY EY£5 CAN ( TAKE: 
ALL OF Tl-f:>SE rxrrsr ANY QUESTIONS'? 
Seorts 

Irish men's swim team opens season tomorrow 
By KEVIN HERBERT said Welsh. "This is to our advantage be­
Sports Writer cause freshmen always bring new life to a 
program. This is especially true this year 
The Notre Dame men's swim team will because of the new facilities and coaching 
open its season tomorrow in the Notre staff." 

Dame Relays, to be held at 7 p.m. in the One weak spot, however, will be the 
recently completed Rolls Aquatic Center diving team. With Mike Kennedy and Rich 
in theACC. Yohon gone, Notre Dame has no dominant. 
The Irish, last year's Midwestern Col­experienced divers to fill in. 
legiate Conference runners-up, will be Friday's competition will answer a great 
sponing a brand new, first-class Olympic many questions about just where the 
size pool, along with a new, yet ex­diving squad and the team in general stand 
perienced coaching staff. at this point. 

"The team has worked very hard and "We will go fast," said Welsh. "It is the 
possesses a great attitude. This will be a first meet in the pool -we really want to 
good swim unit," said first-year coach Tim swim quick. As long as we go fast, everyth­
Welsh. ing will take care ofitself." 

Previous to this year, Welsh coached for Competing teams at the Notre Dame eight season at Johns Hopkins, where he Relays will include Butler, Illinois "amassed eight Middle Atlantic Conference (Chicago), Mankato State, Valparaiso, Wis­championships along with two NCAA Divi­.consin (Milwaukee), Xavier .and Notre sion Ill championships. Dame. 
This year's team, unlike those of past "Our schedule this year is pretty much seasons, has not been decimated by an unknown quantity to me," said Welsh. graduations. Co-captains Charles Brady "The only team I really know is Fordham. and John Coffey will lead the squad this We hope to improve our record over last year. year, and we also want to advance our 
Brady will aid the Irish by competing in place in the tournament." the relays, breastroke and freestyle, while Other swimmers who look to contribute Coffey is the top returning freestyler and is heavily this year include senior Blaise Har­very experienced in the 200-yard back­ding. Harding, as a freshman, broke the stroke. 200-yard IM ( 1:58.0), the~ 400-yard IM 
Notre Dame will need this experience as ( 4:13.9) and the 200-yard breastroke 
the squad currently consists of twelve 

freshmen, more than any other class. see IRISH, page 13 
"We have a large number of freshmen," 

Pinkett wins MVP award for the third straight time 
By LARRY BURKE standing offensive player and defensive AssistantSports Editor tackle Eric Dorsey earned the award for outstanding defensive player. 
Senior tailback Allen Pinkett added yet Senior defensive tackle Greg Dingens another Notre Dame record to his collec­received the Notre Dame Club of St. tion last night at the 66th annual Notre joseph Valley Scholar-Athlete award for Dame Football Banquet held in the ACC. the second consecutive year. 
Fifty-five monograms also were awardedPinkett received the Most Valuable at the banquet, 15 to seniors, 25 to juniors,Player award from the Notre Dame Na­1·1 to sophomores and four to freshmen.
tional Monogram Club for the third Gerry Faust, in his last official function asstraight year, to become the first player in head football coach, thanked all those as­Irish history to win the award three times. 

Sembled for "five of the greatest years of 
A pair ofsenior linemen also came away my life. with top individual honors. Offensive guard Tim Scannell was voted the out-see FOOTBALL, page 12 
Holtz' son looks forward to having father coach 
By KEVIN BECKER Holtz."Soinetimes I would get teased a Sports Writer little when dad would lose, but I never really minded. Generally, I never really lis­
Sitting In his Fisher Hall dormitory room tened." 

with a characteristic pinch of tobacco Even though there are many benefits 
bowing his lip, Skip Holtz (a nickname for that go along with being the family of a 
Lou Holtz, Jr.), son of new Irish head foot­prominent college football coach, the 
ball coach Lou Holtz, talks about his dad as Holtz family has faced quite a few reloca­
ifhe were just that-his dad. tions in the past years. Holtz Sr.'s first head 
"When people ask me what it is like coaching job was at William and Mary in being the son of Lou Holtz," commented Virginia, which led him to the head job at Holtz in his unmistakable Southern drawl, Nonh Carolina State. "I always think that is the hardest question Next there was a one-year stint at the to answer. I usually just ask them what It is helm of the New York Jets. After his brief like being their dad's son." pro coaching career, the new Irish mentor 
By talking to Holtz, one would never took the lead role in the Arkansas football know that his father is about to inherit the program, and finally took charge of the reins of the nation's most prestigious col­Minnesota Golden Gophers before the lege football program. In fact, living with a Notre Dame post opened up. With all of great deal of public and media attention that moving it seems that being the son of seems to be somewhat commomplace the Lou Holtz might have led to a rocky Holtz family repetoire. childhood. 
"I guess because I grew up with all ofthe "I liked moving around when I was a attention, I'm kind ofused to it," said Holtz. kid," recalled Holtz. "I got to see a lot ofthe "The whole family is used to it.'' country when I was a little kid and then to 
With the extraordinarily successful spend all four years of high school in coaching career that the elder Holtz Arkansas. I settled down at a good time, but boasts, it is no surprise that the Holtz my sister will be going to her fourth high family has been In the spotlight for quite school. I wouldn't like that.'' some time. 
"I used to get a lot of attention ~llt:n I was in an Arkansas high school," said 


Thursday, December 5, 1985-page 16 
Senior forward Trena Keys hopes to· tonight against Michigan. Marty Strasen lead the Irish women's basketball team to previews the game below. while Marty new heights this season, and the team will Burns pret•iews the season below that. balle its bands full in its home opener 
The next step? 
Irish look to take a step beyond accomplishments of last year 
By MART\' STRASEN and thinks the game will be decided on the Sports Writer boards. "They've got some very good shooters, The Notre Dame women's basketball especially Wendy Bradetich (who 
team squares off against the University of averaged 12.8 points per game last Michigan tonight at the ACC in a contest season)," she explained. "She can hit from which could set the tone for the 1985-86 the outside and is not shy about taking her 
season. shots from long range. Even though they're 'Ibe Irish, hoping to at least equal last smaller, they are a good rebounding team. year's 20-8 record and earn a spot in the 
"For us to be successful, we have to beatNCAA Tournament, are in need of a win in them on the boards and disrupt their flow.

their home opener after splitting their first They are a very deliberate team and we're two games on the road. Coach Mary DiS­going to have to take it to them with a goodtanislao's squad dropped its opener 71-54 transition game -switching from offense to to Purdue, but bounced back to defeat defense quickly. We also have to make Western Michigan 94-65. 

good use ofour inside game by not turningCoach DiStanislao expects a struggle the ball over."
against the Wolverines and hopes her Coach DiStanislao calls the game "a bigtroops can come up with the effort she one" for the Irish this early in the season knows they're capable of. 

and expects her team to come out 
• "It's going to be a battle-that's for sure," prepared in their first home game.

she said. "They're coming in here after beating us last year (by a 75-64 score at "I think it's a real big game -to win at Michigan) and they'll be ready. They play home and to beat a team that beat us last hard and take a lot ofpride in it." year. Michigan is a good team and we're 
The Irish will enjoy a height advantage going to have to play tough to beat them. in tonight's match-up, as the Wolverine "It will be nice to be wearing the white front line measures about six feet across uniforms," DiStanislao assures. according to DiStanislao. She looks forMic­Action gets under way at 7:30 tonight at higan to put the ball up from the outside the ACC. 
Women's basketball team opens home season tonight 
By MAR1Y BURNS mostly on account of several early non­AssistantSports Editor conference losses. 
4 This year, however, DiStanislao feels her Last year, the Notre Dame women's bas­team just may have the necessary tools to ketball team knocked on the NCAA's door. get access into the tournament. The team This year the Irish want to kick the door boasts one of the strongest recruiting in. groups in the country to go with eight 
You see, the party going on behind that returning monogram winners from a team door is the NCAA tournament, a small which won 1 5 ofits last 17 games. invitation-only affair which has gone on What wiU help the Irish most in their 
without Notre Dame for the five years quest to open the tournament door, since the Irish made the jump to Division I. though. will be Keys-senior forward Trena Those years, though, have seen Notre Keys, that is. Dame come a long way in their quest, cul­The All-America candidate and 1985 minating in last year's 20-8 record and con­NSC MVP will be counted on to lead a vincing North Star Conference balanced offensive attack andto play strong cha"1J:ionship. defense underneath for a Notre Dame team 
tn,ieec, the ..uco..·Lss vn rhe court laM that finally has the chance which it has season ga'". the Irish a great deal of been working for these past few years. recognition. dut Head Coach Mary DiS· tanislao's squad still fell a bit short in the 
see PREVIEW, page 12 

eyes of the I'.C.\.~ tournament committee, 





