
Inside: Irish Extra 
' I 
! 
---{~ 


FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1 5, 1985
VOLXX NO 53 

,. an independent student newspaper s~rving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's . 
SMC officers decide not to grant leave for adoption 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
StaffReporter 
Adoptive mothers will not be granted maternity leave, according to a decision handed down by the senior officers at Saint Mary's. 
· 'Ibe decision was made after Mary Ann Traxler, a professor in the 

education  department,. requested  
maternity  leave  after  adopting  a  
baby.  

The senior officers at the College • include President William Hickey, Vice President and Dean o( Faculty Dorothy Feigl, Dean of Student Af­fairs Sister Karoljackowski, Control­ler and Business Manager Jason Undower and Vice President for College Relations Larry Durance. 
None of the officers would com­ment on their decision to deny Trax­ler maternity leave. 
The current maternity leave policy for faculty members states,"Pregnancy, delivery and care ofan infant is a major event in the life ofa female faculty member." 
Under this plan, the college offers only "pregnant faculty members" a series of options, such as a one setnester half-time leave with full salary, or a one semester leave with one-halfsalary. 
The current maternity plan makes no provisions for adoptive parents, and should be changed, according to Ann Loux, a professor in the English depattment. 

"There's no reason why an adoptive mother and father shouldn't be covered. This policy is old. and must be enlarged," she said. John Shinners, assistant professor 
see ADOPTION, page 6 




Columbia volcano kills thousands as it buries villagers in Water, mud 
Aseoclated Press 
BOGOTA, Colombia · A volcano in western Colombia erupted before dawn yesterday and sent torrents of mud and water crashing into a river 

that  buried  a  sleeping  town  and  
three •  villages.  Officials  fear  
thousands were killed.  

"Rescue workers are talking about 20,000 dead," said Red Cross direc­tor Artemo Franco in an interview with the Bogota radio chain Caracol. "It is an immense tragedy." 
"Eighty-five percent of the town (:\lmero) is destroyed, and we es­timate there are 15,000 deaths," Gov. Eduardo Alzate, of the state of Tolima, said in a live broadcast inter­view with Caracol. 

Officials said Armero, a farming town in the state of Tolima just 30 miles from the volcano and 105 miles northwest of Bogota, was in­undated by mud that swept down to the Langunilla River after the erup­tion ofthe volcano, Nevado <ilel Ruiz (Snowpeak of Ruiz.) 
The volcano, which has been spewing smoke, ashes and gases since Oct. 19, 1974, apparently melted snow around its cone, creat­
ing tons of mud that went crashing Civil defense workers had down Lagunilla River. recovered 52 bodies this morning, Sgt. Ruben Garcia, the fire chiefof the Bogota radio chain IRCN said. 
Chinchina which sits on a hill 750 feet above the river, said 14 people were killed in an area of almost 200 houses along the river. 

Almero, in the coffee-growing state ofTolima, is 30 miles southeast of the city of Manizales and 30 miles north ofthe city oflbague. 
Caracol reported that heavy rains also started at dawn when the 15,500-foot high volcano erupted, 
contributing  to  the  flooding,  
Caracol reported.  
Fernando Rivera,  a crop-dusting  

pilot who flew over the devastated .area, said the avalanche of mud also destroyed the villages of Santuario, Carmelo and Pindalito, which have a total ofmore than 20,000 people. 
Rivera said in a live interview with the Caracol that the mud also buried farmhouses along the river for 25 miles. 
"Some survivors were clinging to trees they had climbed, some were on roofs that weren't reached by the mud, and even some (were) in a cemetery that had a cement wall around it and that the mud did not 'mock down," Rivera said. 
Thirty-eight bodies were found in the adjacent town of Mariquita and 14 others in the nearby town of Chinchina. 
"They have to send in helicopters to save these people because . everything is surrounded by mud and there is no other way to get to them," Rivera said. 
-The Colombian Civil Aeronautics Administration prohibited all private and commercial flights from flying into the area because of poor visibility due to ash still in the air, said a CAA captain who spoke on condition ofanonymity. 
There were reports the volcano started spewing ash and smoke at 
10:30 p.m. Wednesday, and three honrs later the mud and water hit Ar· mero. 
There were other towns along the river closer to the volcano, but they apparently were spared because they sat on hills. The town of Chinchina, with more than 70,000 people, is only six miles from the base ofthe volcano. 

President tells nation next week's summit to'be 'mission of peace' 
WASHINGTON President 
Reagan told the nation yesterday 
night he is going to Geneva and his 
first summit meeting with a Soviet 
leader on "a mission for peace" that 
he hopes will continue in future 
years. 
Reagan said his purpose in meeting Soviet leader Mikhail Gor­bachev next Tuesday and Wednes­day is to "try to map out, together, a basis for peaceful discourse even though our disagreements on fun­damentals will not change." 
Excerpts from the prepared text of the president's nationally broad­cast address from the Oval Office were released by the White House before Reagan was scheduled to speak. 
"It is my fervent hope that the two of us can begin a process which our successors and ourpeoples can con­tinue," the president said. He described that process as the ability to face differences "frankly and openly and beginning to narrow and resolve them" through communica­tion and elimination of the barriers between the two superpowers. 
He called for cooperation "wherever possible for the greater good ofall" 
"My mission, simply stated, is a mission for peace," Reagan said. 
Earlier, Secretary ofState George 
Shultz told reporters that "there will 
be some things of a significant but 
not major sort that will be agreed 
on" in Geneva. 
Shultz did not specify what the 
items of agreement are, but he and 
other administration officials ind­
icated the United States and Soviet 
Union are close to an accord that 
would result in resumption of cul­
tural, educational and scientific ex· 
changes between the twocountries. 
Then-President Jimmy Carter suspended the cultural f!XChange agreement between the two countries to protest the Soviet military push into Afghanir..tan at the end of 1979. More than , 100,000 Soviet troops remain there~ 
But Shultz told a news co¢'erence the two sides remain far apart on arms control issues, desp(te some narrowing of differencesf in the proposals put on the b~ning table at ongoing nuclear arms talks in Geneva. 
"Some interesting numbers have emerged from the back-and-forth talks, Shultz said, "and ifthere can be some impulse to the negotiators out of this meeting, that'll be all to the good." But nothing at this point in the preparations for the summit ind­icates "we're somewhere near that 
see REAGAN7 page S 


United Way drive ends after use of 'creativity' 
ByJOEMARKEY 
News Staff 

The emphasis ofthis year's United Way fundraising drive, which ends today, was placed on student in· volvement rather than blind com­petition and coercion, according to organizers of the drive. 
"The creative approach" was used by organizers Mike Huber and Bob McNamara, student government chief of statl and executive coor· dinator, respectively. 
According to Huber, even though this kind of approach may not raise as much as the other methods previously used, it still is more worthwhile for the students. 
He said a difference of a few hundred dollars does not have a devastating effect on the United Way campaign as a whole, which plans to raise nearly three million dollars. 
Huber said he believes students ought to be able to give willingly and enjoy a social activity as well. 
"It'sa matter ofspirit. Ifpeople are going to give, they will give," he said. 
Studerit Body . Vice President Duane Lawrence concurred with Huber and McNamara that the fund 
drive should stress creativity.  
"We  tried  to  make  it  more  
creative  and  fun  and  less  com­ 
petitive," said Lawrence.  

According to Lawrence, a monetary goal was not set because there was no way to anticipate how much would be collected because the drive was handled differently this year. He said he had hoped that this creative approach would raise "more than ever." 
Lawrence said he had told the hall 
presidents to leave the hall collec­
tions to the discretion ofthe section 
leaders rather than to force the stu­
dents to give. 

The organizers ofthis year's drive 
plan to write a follow-up report on 
why certain events failed so the 
mistakes won't be repeated next 
year, they said. 

Huber said Notre. Dame is 
respected by the people of St. 
Joseph's County and by other area 
colleges and helps in this way to 
spread interest for the United Way. 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are 
the only schools in the county 
which conduct a fundraising effort 
for the United Way, McNamara said, 
adding that any contribution from 
the University is an extra help to the 
overall United Way drive. 

"Most of the activities were al­
ready taking place. It was just a mat­
ter of working together" with the 
organizers ofthese activities to have 
them donate some of the proceeds 
to the United Way, McNamara said. 

"Your individual pledge puts us one step closer to achieving our goal," said Wellington Jones, the 1985 United Way campaign chair­man for St.Joseph's County, address­ing the people who participate in the campuses' campaigns. 
Jones hopes to collect 12,975,000 for the United Way of St. joseph's County. 
The original deadline set by the county chapter of the United Way was last Friday. But because certain activities had to be rescheduled, the deadline was extended to today, jones explained. 
The Observer Friday, November 15, 1985 -page 2 
• 

The winnersofSaint Mary's second annual regional com­petitive art exhibition are Suzanne Ritger, a junior, and Notre Dame graduate Kathleen Fox. Each will receive S 1 00 cash awards for their entries. Awards will be presented tonight at 8. Ritger's work, "Glass Perspective," and Fox's drawing "Anadyomene," will be on display with other entries today through Dec. 12 in Moreau Hall's Little Theater. Judge for the exhibition was Dennis Adrian, Chicago art critic and historian. -Tbe Observer 
Of Interest 
Recent art works of Moira Marti Geoffrion, assistant chairman and associate professor of art, art history and design at Notre Dame, will be displayed in the Snite Museum ofArt beginning Sunday. The artist, teacher of sculpture and director of the Mid­America College Art Association, createsorganic forms derived from tree branch structures, which combine sculpture, drawing and collage elements. Her recent works show the influence of a 1982 trip to India. -Tbe Observer 
A publication reception for two Saint Mary's 
religious studies professors will be today from 3 to 4:30p.m. in the parlor of Haggar College Center. Rita Burns, author of "Ezra and Nehemiah, A Commentary," and Father David Murphy, who wrote "What I Believe: Catholic College Students Discuss Their Faith," are both members of the department. Both books will be available at a 20 percent discount at the reception. The reception is open to stu­dents. -Tbe Observer 
The BeauxArts Ballwill be held tonight in the lobby ofthe Architecture Building at 10:00. The theme is Fashion Victims. Performing will be Nicholas Tremulis. Tickets are S4 pre-sale and SS at the door.-Tbe Observer 
Ichthus Movie Night. A new Christian Fellowship group, lchthus, will host a movie night tonight at 6:30 in the Pasquerilla West T.V. lounge. Anyone interested in learning more about lchthus is encouraged to attend. Refreshments will be served. 
-Tbe Observer 
D.Y.B.O. Number 2 withtheBonTonSocietywillbe at the South Dining Hall tonight at 9:00. The dance is sponsored by the Student Activities Board. The price to "Dance Your Buns Off" will be Sl. Tickets will be sold at the door. -The Observer 
TheJoseph Holmes Dance Theatre, sponsored 
by the Student Activities Board, Around the Corner and the Black Cultural Arts Council, will present an evening of ballet, African and jazz dance Saturday at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Record Store for SS to Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students with ID. General admission is S8 ..Tbe Observer 
Prof. J. David Jackson from the University of California at Berkeley will speak on "To the Heart of Matter: From the Cyclotron to the Supercollider" in the Library Auditorium on Friday at 8:30p.m.· Tbe Obseroer 

Weather 
Hope you can swim across campus today as the rainy week continues. Variable cloudiness and continued cool today with a 40 percent chance of light rain late this afternoon. High in the middle to upper 40s. An 80 percent chance ofrain tonight. A 60percent chance of showers tomorrow with the high in 

the middle 50s. -AP 



---Ihe-Obs.-e~~or__ 
----------A.~Y::-~ --­
~lgn Editor ................. Maureen Murphy Accent Copy l:.duor ..................Sam Moore Destgn Asststant............... Melissa Warnke Accent Layout .................. Susie Solomonlk Typesetters ................................... Tom Small Accent Special Layout ........ Laura Gronek 
Mary Ellen Harrington ND Day Editor........................ Lynne Strand News EditOr-.............................. Jane Kr.tvcik SMC Day Editor ................. MaryJean Sully Copy EtJitor....................Cindy Rauckhorst Ad Design ......................Jeanne Grammem Sports Copy Editor ................ Mike Chmiel Michelle Manin Sports Special Layout............Alex Pducr Jesse Pesta 
JdfBlumb Photographer ........................ Drew Sandler Sports Brkfs............................ Martin Bums Typists ............................... Maura Mc~ever VIewpoint Copy Eattor........... Miriam Hill Mary Kate D'Amorc Viewpoint Layout................... Rob Banolo Tess Guarino 
The Observer ( l !SPS '\99 l··H)OO) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacation periods. TheObserver is published by the studentsofthe l !niversitl or Norre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased ror S,\0 per year ( I.W per semester) by writing The Obeei"Yer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana -lM'\6 
The Obeei"Yer is a memher or The Auoc:lakd Prcu. All reproduction rights are 
revrvcd. 

Anti-Apartheid Network affords chance to join protest movement 
It seems our generation grew up in the shadow of student protest. While mom and dad got ready to go out on Friday nights, we watched protestors and policemen battle it out on the evening news, but it really didn't matter much to us. All we were waiting to see was "The Brady Bunch." 
So while college students were getting killed by Na­tional Guardsmen, we were learning to tie our shoes. 
Last week, one of the protestors of the 60s, looking a little tired and with what could have been the begin­nings ofa bald spot on the back ofhis head, claimed our generation is beginning to show signs ofa protest spirit again. 
Abbie Hoffman is a name which you probably remember but are not sure why. He was one of the leaders of the protest movements of our childhoods, and was generally the kind ofperson your mother might have warned you about. 
Ifyou only expected this man to come to Notre Dame and rant and rave about his former days of glory, you were in for a surprise. More ofhis remarks were directed toward the issues he believes student'l should be protesting today than to reminiscences about the past. 
The reason he gave for protesting seemed to be especially applicable. 
"Students have stopped seeing themselves as stu­dents but as citizens in a community. Once you are a citizen of a community, you have rights, you have needs. You have a right to have a say in decision making,'~ he proclaimed. 
One area which Hoffman suggested protesting was investments in South Africa. 
He compared tuition payments to paying taxes, and said we have the right, as citizens, to have a say in how our taxes are spent. 
Which seems like a reasonable idea, you might have said to yourselfas you left Washington Hall, hoping you got back to your dorm in time to see at least the end of "St. Elsewhere." 
But before you return to your regular routine, remember that you could be the one protesting, and it doesn't have to be meeting Notre Dame security in front ofthe Administration Building at high noon for an afternoon ofrock-throwing and name-calling. 
There are more subtle ways for citizens to protest. 
There is an Anti-Apartheid Network at Notre Dame which is organized specifically to protest against apar­theid. 
It meets every Thursday night at 7 in the Center for 
****************** 
~ Wanted: ~ 
* •
* One good used •
* * 
~ Macintosh : 
* * 
~ System ~ ~ Call: ~ ! 289-4811 ~ays ~ 
~ 2n-0396 evenings ~ ********************____;i"t";,____ 

Jane Kravcik 
Assistant News Editor 
Social Concerns. Here members of the network make plans for their next moves, and welcome anyone who would like to join them. 

The group is using a new tactic starting today, and although it will take place around noon and it will occur in front of the Administration Building, there won't be any rocks thrown. 
Instead, it will be a vigil. A prayer will be said and past events in South Africa will be discussed. 
After the vigil every week, letters protesting the Uni­versity's investments in South Africa will be presented to Father Theodore Hesburgh, Uni­vef'sity president. 
Patrick Mullen, vice chair­man of the Anti-Apartheid Network, compared the presentation ofthe letters to what is done at the South African embassy in Was­hington, where letters are presented every day. 
Ifa vigil doesn't seem to fit with your sense of protest, Mullen suggested writing letters to Hesburgh or Thomas Carney, chairman of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees. 
The network is working toward educating the students about apartheid in preparation for a student referendum next spring as­kingifthe University should continue to invest in South Africa. 
There will be lectures, films and debates sponsored by the network in order to get students to form ed­ucated opinions about the subject. 
Which means, ofcourse, that even ifyou do not want to protest in front ofthe administration or write letters, all you have to do to protest is pay a bit of attention to the activities of the network and maybe attend a· film or lecture. 
Then you have to form an opinion and vote next spring. 
This seems pretty far removed from mailing marijuana to residents ofNew York, but it is still a form ofprotest. 
Which, according to Hoffman, is just exercising your rights as a citizen. 
Coach Joe sez: Ironwood is the placeI 
ironwood liquors 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD 
SOUTH SEND. INDIANA 46635 
.2i91272-7144 



-,..-........ 


NOTRE DAME·s OWN ADVERTISERS 
We need Poster Hangers. If interested. see the Finanicial Aid Office. 

"'You just never know where it might take you..:· 
-Extra-Curricular 
239-7668 

-
--~ ~ 
. The Observer Friday, November 15, 1985 -page 3 
I 
l 
I 


UH!d.D aOOKS WUK-Cf!U!IMT1NO Ttl&~ ro IIIUV 
l I I 
·t 


Th~ Obscrver/Chaltanya Panchal
For your eyes only 
The censored books exhibit, located tbis week in classics as Dante's "The Divine Comedy" and tbe Memorial Library concourse, is part ofBannJd Hesse's "Steppempolf' are part oftbe display. Book Week, celebrating the freedom to read. Sucb 
Council represents SMC parents 
MARILYN BENCHIK of October and in late February and The members ofthe council work a voice vote Wednesday night. also expired yesterday. 
News Staff early March to offer their sugges­with the admissions and public rela­
Senate Majority Leader Robert In September, the Reagan ad­tions and review recent events at the tions departments. They often call 
Dole, R-Kan., said the action would ministration asked Congress to in­

Keeping parents informed of College. prospective sttldents, and review 
"relieve the president ofany burden crease the debt limit from its current events at Saint Mary's while giving The council does not participate the career and counseling depart­while he was at the summit" next level to S2.078 trillion. But that them the opportunity to discuss in any active policy-making. ment, Hetterich said. 
week with Soviet leader Mikhail necessary legislation has become these events at biannual meetings is "We hope to keep the council The council is broken up into. 
G~rbachev. tangled in congressional wrangling the purpose of the College's Parents viable and to assist (Saint Mary's several different sub-committees. 
Without action, the government over rival plans passed by the House Council. President) Dr. Hickey in any way These committees allow the council 
would have been in default. The and Senate to force a balanced 

that we can. We may question, but to cover a variety ofissues concern­
president had ordered federal budget by the end ofthe decade. • All parents of students are techni­we do not antagonize," said Priscilla ing most aspects ofSaint Mary's day­cally members of the council, while Trunck, co-chairman ofthe council. to-day business. 22 serve as its active members and Although not actively involved in 

Opposition to Marcos

officers. Second year council member the search for a new president, the "The council acts as a liaison bet· Charles Hetterich said the council council does have a member who ween the administration and does not promote fundraising ac­works on a committee designed for 

agrees to Jan. elections
parents," said Thomas Nessinger, a tivities on a formal basis. Members this purpose. Last year's council council member. are asked to participate in chairman, Thomas Nessinger, serves 
the election be held on March I 7 to 

Active members and officers are fundraisers which take place in their as this year's committee give them more time to prepare, but invited to attend meetings at the end native area. representative. 
MANILA, Philippines -Members Marcos' party said that date was too of President Ferdinand Marcos' close to May elections for provincial party and his political opposition governors and town aqd city agreed yesterday to postpone a spe­mayors. cial presidential election pmposed Perez also said negotiations were by Marcos for next January. A new continuing on whether the election date was not set. should include the vacant vice 
Leonardo Perez, Marcos' political presidency. affairs minister, said representatives Marcos said in announcing the ofthe ruling New Society Movement special election last week that he 
and the opposition agreed to the wanted to restrict polling to the postponement in a negotiating ses­presidency, but he later agreed to in­sion. clude the vice presidency. 
Perez said the presidential elec­The postponement came on the tion, proposed by Marcos for Jan. 17, eve of a meeting by two dozen op­will probably be held "not later than position groups to discuss choosing the first week of February." The Na­a single candidate to oppose Marcos 
tional Assembly, controlled by in the election. Former Sen Salvador Marcos' party, is to begin debate Laurel and Corazon Aquino, widow Monday on the election and when to of assassinated opposition leader 
hold it. Benigno Aquino, are considered the 


Here is your chance to develop  few. You will toke on respon­ 
your professional skills by teach­ sibilities and meet challenge~  
ing children eager to learn ... in  that would never be offered you  
a country where teachers are  in a starting position in the United  
highly respected. More than 45  States. 'Nhen you return. you will  
countries are asking for Peace  find that your Peace Corps serv­ 
Corps Volunteers in almost every  ice will open new doors to you.  
field of education: Math and  Educational institutions, interna­ 
Science. Primary. Vocational  tiona! firms and government  
and Special Education and  agencies value Peace Corps  
Industrial Arts, to name only a  experience.  

25 years of PEACE CORPS The toughest job you'll ever love. 
Interviews: November 19th & 20th in the Place.TIEnt Office Ia.ver lEvel Hermrial Library 
House decides to raise 


government debt limit 

agencies to stop issuing new checks 
starting today ifCongress had not in­
WASHINGTON -The govern­creased the debt limit. ment's latest fiscal mess was tem­Attached to the legislation is an porarily cleaned up yesterday after extension until Dec. IS of the 16­the House gave final congressional cent-a-pack federal tax on cigarettes. approval to interim legislation Congress has not completed action raising federal borrowing authority­on pending legislation making the the national debt limit-to Sl.9 tril­16-cent tax permanent and without lion. the extension the tax would have 
With no debate and only ap­dropped to eight cents per pack proximately two dozen members after midnight yesterday. present, the House, on a voice vote, The temporary bill also would ex­approved the' legislation that tend until Dec. 14 a government postpones a credit crunch through program of aid to workers and com­Dec. 6 by raising the government's panies hurt by competition from im­S1.824 trillion line of credit by 180 ports, a limit on the size of federal billion. It now goes to the White Medicare reimbursements to doc­House for President Reagan's ex­tors and hospitals, and the method of pected signature. calculating benefits for unemployed 
The Senate passed the measure on railroad workers. Those programs 
Marcos' opponents had asked that strongest contenders. 


The Observer Friday, November 15, 1985 -page 4 

A piece ofthe rock 
A one-week field trip to tbe Southwest brought these Notre Dame students face to face with the same slabs ofIndiana ltmestone that will become the alumni war memorial. Seated on the slab,from left, are john Hill, Paul McGowan, Stephen Liska, 
NDieaders abandon discount idea 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Student government rejected an idea which would have given its members discounts at South Bend stores in return for free advenising in the student government newslet­ter in early September. 
Student Body President Bill Healy said the idea was to compensate stu­dent government members for their work. The idea came from a former student leader, said Healy. He said Notre Dame student government members are not paid, unlike those at other schools. 
"We're extremely proud of the 

work student government members 
do," he said. 
In a· Sept. 5 memo to his cabinet 

members Healy asked for volunteers 
to take on the project ofgetting stu­
dent government members dis­
counts at South Bend stores. "We 
can offer them free advertising in 
our newsletter," says the memo. 
Healy said after getting responses 

from some cabinet members on the 
project it was decided that the 
project should be canceled because 
student government members 
shouldn't be working for pay but for 
the sake oftheir jobs. 
Saint Mary's students! 
Need to publicize an event? Need to place a classified ad? Have a compliment orgripe? 

309 
Haggar Center 


A giftfor someone who has everything 277-7026 
GIVE A SUNTAN 
Gift Certificates AvaUable Booths and Beds Available 
Exdtlng and Challenging Career OpponunltJes 
Master of Business Administration 


A small, highly selective MBA program has been designed by The Ohio State University , to provide professional management education to students with nonbusiness academic backgrounds. This two-year full-time program 
• 
facilitates a high level of student and faculty-student interaction 

• 
has no prerequisite course work 

• 
is espeoally attractive to students with liberal arts. scientific. and other nonbusiness backgrounds 

• 
is built upon a t1ghtly integrated study of foundation management tools and concepts 


• offers the opportunity to concentrate in one or two management fields through elective course work 
• is offered by one of the top 25 schools of management in the country and is accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business 
Last year's graduates were very successful in finding career opportunities. Examples of positions they selected include the following: 
• 
ass1stant to the chief executive officer. Midland Mutual life 

• 
field marketing manager. Ford Motor Company 


• 

RobertEnrightand Tom McSweeney. Fmm left, bot­tom, are Brian Pierson, Michael Switek.:lohn Pruett of the Indiana Limestone Co., and Steven Ferretti. Thefield trip is a requirementfor allEarth sciences majors. 
• 
management trainee with an 1nternat1ona1 ass1gnment. Chase Manhattan Bank 

• 
assistant product manager. Pillsbury 

• 
financial analyst. Hewlett Packard 

• 
1nventory control manager. IBM Corporation 

• 
account executive. Merrill Lynch 

• 
consultant. Price Waterhouse 

• 
management trainee with an international 


assignment. Procter and Gamble For a brochure describing this program and application information. please contact: 
Director, MBA Programs The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 
1775 College Road Columbu$, OH 4JZ1G-1 J99 614-422-851 1 


The Ohio State University 
I 
Congratulations "Adworks" on being adoptedby Leo Burnett, Inc.I 
,.. You're doing a fantastic job 

THE NOTRE DAM-E ADVERTISING NETWORK 
-
All students interested in any aspect ofmarketinfl are invited to join the Adworks team. We need artists, account executives, and anyone interested in worki~g hard and learning alot. 
WE WANT TO MAKE YOUR NEXT EVENT OR SERVICE A SUCCESS . .. 
... so call us at 239.J7668, or uisit us at the student gouemment offices, third floor, LaFortune Student Center. Our office hours are from 3:00 to 5:00p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, or by appointment. And remember . .. 
ADVERTISING -IT WORKS! 

These and all Billboard Top 40 albums are on sale at TRACKS from $5.99 to $6.99 for single, album, or cassette. 
1631 E. Edisor, South Bend 
277-8338 
tOto 9 ·•aUy 
11 to 8 Sunday 
INDIANA'S FINEST DISCOUNT RECORD STORE 


The Observer Friday, November 15, 1985 -page 5 
point," S,hultz ~aid. 
Asked about a report that the Soviets had proposed a mutual 200­to 300-missile cut in intercontinen­tal ballistic missiles as a show of good faith in efforts to reduce nuclear arsenals, Shultz said that idea was contained in the Soviet counterproposal put forth early in the fall. He added, however, that "it wasn't discussed at all in my meetings in Moscow" and "I don't think it's any big deal." 
White House spokesman Larry Speakes said such an offer "would not meet our criteria of stability, balance. and equity" because it would favor the Soviet arsenal, which contains more multiple­warhead missiles and therefore would result in a greater reduction in U.S. forces than in Soviet forces. 
Reagan met yesterday afternoon with leaders of the U.S. negotiating team, which has just concluded the latest round of arms talks with the Soviets in Geneva. The three-part negotiations have recessed until mid-january, and Shultz said that despite some "quickening of the pace" during the latest round, the two sides do not appear near an agreement. 
Unlted\Vay 

' 
The Observer Friday, November 15, 1985 -page 6 




Irish and British reach agreement about government of N. Ireland 
DUBUN, Ireland -Ireland and Britain approved a historic agree­ment yesterday giving this Roman Catholic nation a formal voice in governing the troubled, Protestant­dominated British province of Nor­thern Ireland. 
Protestant hard-liners immediately condemned the accord as "a recipe for war" and vowed to withdraw support for the Northern Irish administration. 
The pact was endorsed at separate meetings of the Irish and British Cabinets and is expected to be signed by Prime Ministers Margaret Thatcher of Britain and Garret Fitzgerald of Ireland at a summit today in an undisclosed location. 
Authorities say it is the most im­portant initiative on Northern Ireland since 1974, and is designed 


Soviet claims CIA kidnapped him 
Asaoclated Press 
MOSCOW -Vitaly Yurchenko, 
denying he defected and scorning 
questions about his connection to 
the KGB, made his first public ap­
pearance in the Soviet Union yester­
day and insisted he was kidnapped 
and drugged by the CIA. 
Flanked by Soviet officials, Yur­
chenko appeared at a news con­
ference in a Foreign Ministry 
auditorium packed with Western 
reporters and Soviet journalists. 
Yurchenko left the United States 
on Nov. 6 in a surprise ending to 
what the State Department said was 
a defection three months earlier by 
one ofthe KGB's senior spies. 


Adoption 
continuedfrom page 1 
of humanistic studies, is the 
originator of a faculty petition in 
support ofTraxler. 
Also in response, a petition sup­
porting Traxler has been circulated 
among Saint Mary's students. 
Aletter was sent to the senior of­

ficers of the College by officers of .the Saint Mary's Education Club, a student organization, asking for a reconsideration ofthe officers' deci­
sion. 
Kris Jane, vice-president of the 
club, said, "Their actions are telling 
us that we have to choose between a 
career and a family, not a combina­
tion ofthe two." 
A family care benefit proposal has 
been drawn up by selected faculty 
members, designed as a substitute 
for the present policy. 
The revised proposal allows for 
the birth or adoption of a child, or 
the severe illness, trauma or sudden 
disability ofa family member. 
The policy has been accepted by faculty members and will be voted on by the administration. 

Correction 
Because of an editing error an incorrect photo attribution was printed in yesterday's Observer. The correct photographer of the Carnival of Careers at Saint Mary's was Kathi Donahy. 
An Of Interest in Wednesday's paper incorrectly named the group with which Army ROTC First Sergeant Joe Schweninger was associated. He is a member of the Irish Ranger Company. 
100 c.w,....... 251-1241 
SO's & 60'• Mualc 
OPEN 1 DAYI A WEEK AT 7 P.M. 
to help pacify a strife-torn region where more than 2,450 people have been killed since a centuries-old Catholic-Protestant contlict Oared anew in 1969. 
In the latest violence, a member of the mainly Protestant Royal Ulster Constabulary was shot and seriously wounded as he drove to work yes­terday morning near the Irish bor­der. Police blamed the Irish Republican Army, which is trying to wrest the province from the United Kingdom to unite it with the Irish Republic. 
Officials in Britain and Ireland have refused to disclose more than the outlines of the plan. But it ap­pears largely to formalize a relation­ship that has existed in practice for years. 
It gives Ireland a consultative role -thus far not publicly defined -in Northern Ireland's affairs. Irish and British press reports said the republic's government would main­tain an office in the area of Belfast, Northern Ireland's capital, where members of the Catholic minority can bring their grievances against the Protestant-led administration. 

Ireland, in return, is to ack­nowledge British sovereignty over Northern Ireland as lohg as · the Protestant majority so wishes. 
The southern republic's constitu­tion calls for reunification ofthe two Irelands, but the Dublin government has stressed repeatedly it does not want union against the Protestants' wishes. 
Dublin has had a limited say in Northern Ireland affairs for several years through regular meetings bet­ween Irish officials and the province's British governors. 
The Soviets frequently broke into laughter as Yurchenko derided the CIA, its director William Casey and some of the Western correspon­dents who asked questions. 
The news conference was reminiscent of an appearance last year by Oleg Bitov, a Soviet jour­nalist who defected to Britain, lived there for a year and then suddenly appeared before reporters in Mos­cow saying he had been abducted and drugged by British spies. 
Yurchenko read a prepared state­ment in which he repeated most of what he told a news conference at the Soviet Embassy in Washington last week, when he announced that he would return to Moscow. 

He said he was abducted Aug. 1 on the steps of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome and taken to Washington, where he was first kept in a hospital and then in a CIA "safe house" in the suburb ofFredericksburg, Va. 
Yurchenko, flatly denying that he defected, said CIA agents gave him drugs and tried to convince him he was a traitor to his homeland. 
But Yurchenko would not say directly whether be worked for the KGB secret police and intelligence agency. U.S. officials say Yurchenko ran the KGB's Washington office from 1975-80 while working at the embassy there. 
"~y

? the Night Away A,.'((\es t:ll,. ~e,.Ob;
ev ~ ., •Cs 





'~~•t~~ ''*"0 
@~-LJ~~ 
Campus AII-Nighter 
Friday


Starts at 6 p.m. 

Students enjoy some tastes ofAfrican culture last night at a gat­bering in the Center for Social Concerns. The event. intended to show the lighter side ofAfrican life, was spon,·ored by the social awareness group RASTA. 

Lunches starting at. ______ 12.95

Open 7 Days a Week 
Dinners starting at.____ •__ 14.25

2 Locations: 
lar open 7 day1 a week

South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy. (Roseland) 
Mon.-Thurs.: 11:30 a.•.-10 p.a

Next to Randall's Inn 272-7376 
Frl.-s.t.: 11:30 a.•.·11 ,.._

"Elkhart, 610 N. Nappanee Sl 293-3499 
Sun. & Hoilaya11:30 .....10 ,.._ 


r----·-..---·-----·-·-·-·-----., 
SPEND THE lJEEKEND WITH US ~~ 
FOR THE 1 

NOTRE DAME FIGHTING 
IRISH I 
vs. 

THE MIAMI HURRICANES 
FOOTBALL GAME 
NOVEMBER 30, 1985 
AT THE ORANGE BOWL 
THE HOLIDAY INN CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT STATE ROAD 84 & 1-95 
• 
Complimentary Aitport Shuttle Service
I • 

• Welcome Gift & 2 for 1 Drink at Check In 
I 
Two Pools and Tennis Courts 
• Bus Service Available to the Game 
*Fanny's Lounge open till4 AMI * Free Drink with Ticket StubI * 25% Discount Dinner Coupon 
1 

FOR RESERVATIONS CALL 1 1 305/584-4000, ext. 500 ~ 
L...:~~~~~a!: ~~.':~~.:~--------j 

,########~##################.#,•••, ••••••# ••••~### 
JOSEPH HOLMES DANCE THEATRE 
==:::s:::sss=s~ 
Premiere Chicago Group's First Area Appearance 
SAT., NOV. 16-8P.M. 
Washington Hall-Notre Dame Campus Sponsored by: 
The Student Activities Boord Cultural Arts Commission Tickets: S5 ND/SMC students Around the Corner Club S8 General Admission The Block Cultural Arts Council 
~~~~~··,..·~··,·····...••.....##; 
........................~············ 
-.., 
~i~~~_{)__i__J_t_t__________________F_rid-ay_,N_o_ve_m_be-rl-5,_19-85_-_Pa_~_7 Greatness defined by action not power and wealth 
I I 
j 
Few of us would dispute that our world is filled with wrong and injustice. Few would deny that we live in a world where both luxury and poverty flourish side by side, where some children go to bed hungry at night and get a barely literate education by day and where others get to choose between the best foods and go to the best, most ex­pensive universities. 
FranklinJohnson guest column 
It seems clear that a world tolerating this kind of injustice should be changed, that it should and could be made better. And yet many argue that we must resist change until 
What is football all about? Or more specifi­cally, what is Notre Dame football all about? Although this seems like it is a much beaten question, I have a new gripe. Afew weeks ago, Notre Dame played Army. Often this year, I have felt a little funny standing in a crowd that is seriously very angry because a receiver dropped a pass or a quarterback threw the football away. But what happened at the Army-Notre Dame game shocked me much more. 
Heidi Cerneka 
simply said 

Now I am aware that Notre Dame is more than just any football team. Heck, they've got the Gipper and Knute. But they also have some nasty and malicious tempers in the 
Doonesbury 
II· 
AfRAIO~ 
MR. PR&$1/JENT. 
60RfJIJI)-(t.V15 
~!U.lj(L)RJNG. 
tor5 OFFtJINTS !NaJR/JP&. r 
I r-f 

we have no choice. They argue for security, for prudence, for dispassion. They present the fact that the world does not yield to change easily, ifat all. And they ask us to recognize the apparent futility of demanding any change at all. Moreover, they ask that we provide an ex­act formula for justice; they want clear, precise mathmematical results. 
In short, in the face ofhungry children, they ask that we wait a few more generations. 
Unfortunately, the just world we all want will not automaticallyarrive in a generationor two, as our grandmothers and grandfathers can attest. Justice only comes to the world through pain, and suffering and heart-rending sacrifice. Then, when one generation is done, the other still has so much to accomplish, for fighting for justice is never a fight ofcertainty. It is a fight ofdanger and risk. 

Abraham Lincoln, in freeing most of the slaves in 1863, could not foresee the results of his action. Those who helped establish the United Nations and Israel did not know what the new world they were creating would bring. Certainly the signers ofthe Declaration ofIndependence never knew how they would move history and build a nation whose revolu­tion continues today. 
Perhaps every generation, like ourselves, faces. the same challenge: to end as much needless suffering as possible. Perhaps too each generation has more power and wealth at its disposal that itcould bring to bear on this suffering than any other. Surely our genera­tion is the rich~t and most powerful the earth has ever known. But riches will not define the greatness of a generation, nor will always choosing the easy, most certain step. 
Instead, our greatness will be defined by 



Born beck could be country's badly needed mother 
I have finally come to a solution. What the world needs now is a new American leader · Erma Dombeck for President! Now before you write me offas crazy or outlandishly facetious, let me defend my proposal with a small jus­tification and an elaboration on what Erma can do for America. 
Carol Brown 
in these times 

First off, Erma is America's mother. And who better to lord over the greatest house in America · The White House -than our greatest mom? Let's face it. IfErma can manage to con­trol mobs ofunruly, runny-nosed. spoiled sub­urbanite kids fighting over Barbie dolls and 
G.l. joe's, she can certainly handle the House and the Senate. Erma would quickly take charge. At the onset ofany disagreements she would simply say, "Now you are all going to have to learn to share. You Republicans have to give up some of your defense allowance and share it with the Democrats so they can start some more social programs. And you Democrats have to agree to some tax cuts, OK?" 
OK, you say, so what if Erma can act as na­tional mommy-what would she really do to solve the pressing world issues that face us today?" Here is a brief sketch of how Erma could play a major role in solving many ofthe world problems. 
EDUCATION: Erma is the Queen of Subur­
ban Chaos -the driving force behin:J a great 
suburban tradition (as well as a Country 
Cruiser station wagon) · THE CARPOOL. 
In her suburban cruiser Erma could bring a more personal approach to busing kids to a better education. She· could organize a nationwide carpool to pick kids out ofthe city streets and cart them off to school. Also provided in this service would be brown-bag lunches and daily milk money. 
WORLD HUNGER: Erma would set a prece­dent for solving world hunger by organizing a World-Wide Bakeoff. She would unite the world in a Universal Tupperware Party, teach­ing underdeveloped countries to prepare for natural disasters, such as drought and earthquakes, by storing surplus food in Tup­perware -to seal in the freshness. 
UNEMPLOYMENT: America's premier patron of door-to-door sales would solve un­employment by employing all the jobless as salespersons in an "International Avon 

Crusade." Not only would this alleviate ram­
pant unemployment, it would also brighten 
up American home-life with the cheery "ding­
dong" ofAvon at your dooc. 
POLLUTION: Erma would tackle this 
problem with the "clean-up your room or you 
can't go out and play" approach. She would 
promote this campaign against pollution with 
the slogan "The Grass is Always Greener Over 
the Septic Tank "in an attempt to preserve our 
nation's great forests and grasslands. 
SOCIAL PROGRAMS for the NEEDY: Erma would clothe and provide for the poor with the "Biggest Garage Sale Ever." She would supplement Medicare programs by COf>rdinat· ing a nation-wide program ofAmerican moms devoted to making hot chicken soup for the sick and elderly. 
CRIME: Erma would clean up our streets by founding the J.S.P.F. · Junior Scout Police Force. This organization would be comprised of a particularly meritorious group of Brownies, Cub Scouts, Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts. They would patrol American cities walking ol,.t ladies across busy streets, not talking to strangers and just performing good deeds in general. Also, Erma would propose legislation of a new law of deterrence that would sentence certain criminals to the man­
datory purchase of cookies from all Girl 
Scouts who are friends with their children. It's 
a harsh punishment, but, nevertheless, ef­
fective. 
FOREIGN POUCY: Erma would be a 
diplomatic hit over seas. She would win over 
the hearts of the great world powers by 
bearing gifts of home-made chocolate chip 
cookies and holding recipe exchanges at the 
United Nations. (Reagan might keep this in 
mind when he meets with Gorbachev.) 
What America needs right now is a mom. And Erma Dombeckfits the bill. Ofcourse, this is a humorous proposal and Erma is a very funny lady. But, to an extent, isn't politics humorous with its long-winded bureaucrats playing rhetorical word games, its mountains of red tape and its party politics which get so caught up in preserving the party platforms they seem to forget the basic needs of the people? 
What America needs now is a mom · 
someone with common sense to take charge 
and take care ofthe world's family. 
Erma Dombeck for President. 
CarolBrown is a sophomore in the College ofArts and Letters and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


Destroyed uniform stood for more than football 
stands that need to learn a little respect. Basi­cally, I am talking about the stuffed dummy of an Army man that was destroyed at the foot­ball game. 
For those who missed this wonderful scene, count your blessings. At the beginning ofthe game, the Notre Dame cheerleaders came out with a full-sized stuffed dummy in an Army uniform. I am sure it was intended "all in good fun," but what developed from that "little fun" was more than just a disgrace and embarrass­ment for the Notre Dame community. It was probably just about the ultimate insult for the Army students. 
This Army uniform the cheerleaders chose to destroy is not just another T-shirt, or even a football uniform. Think about how wild the Notre Dame football fans would become ifan opposing team showed up, making fun and tearing a Notre Dame uniform. Their reaction would make you think the uniform was hand-

sewn by God, which I think some people ac­tually do believe sometimes. 
And that is just a football uniform, no disrespect to the football team intended. These football players put in a lot of time and hard work to wear that uniform, but they are first Notre Dame students and part ofthe com­munity, then they are football players. 
Army, on the other hand has a whole lot more involved in the uniform they wear. The violence enacted on this dummy was enough to make anyone sick, sick from the violence and sick with the fear of what all this insen­sitivity means. 
But when someone takes another person's uniform and attaches that to the dummy being demolished, that is another story. Think about what that uniform means for those students and people. That is not just a football uniform. The cheerleaders did not even use a football uniform. They used the real army uniform. 
Garry Trudeau 
IT'-3 T/M/3 tflf3 7fXJK TH& OfftN51Vl3! IQ& HAVE TO 5HCW THE IAJOf?L[J 7HAT 71-11$ 6iJYI~ NtJTH/M3 BUT WHY NOT? A 51.-ICK., me:xNIC 5ALESMAN /M1YNOTr 
/1/HOSB CJ?.&I?If!JILJTY15 aA56l? 
l_ ENTIRUYONCHARM! r 
I

l_,~ I ; C'~...). 
what we choose to do with our power and wealth. For we have a chance now, just a chance, to end starVation, poverty and oppres­sion, the most obvious forms of needless suf­fering. 
We, as a nation, have more power thap any other in the world. We as individuals have only the short years of our life. There is no rieed no reason, for us to crawl, cowering, into some shell of false security. We did not build · this world, but we will inherit it. And we can change it. The road of change is often harsh and the obstacles sometimes insurmountable. But it is only"by accepting the challenge, and trying as best we can, that our generation can ever hope to attain a newer world. 
Franklin M.]obnson is a Notre Dame law student. 
This uniform is who that person is in many 
ways. 
That uniform is not only who those men 
are, but it stands for a lot more. It represents 
our country, through the people wearing it. 
The fans in the stands laughed when the men 
from Army ran out onto the field to try to take 
the dummy away from Notre Dame. 
But how much less would Notre Dame fans 
have thought ofthe Army fans if they had not 
at least tried to defend their uniform against 
that harassment? It seems that Notre Dame 
football fans need to learn a little more sen­
sitivity to the reality of the world around 
them, and that things like making dummies of 
Army uniforms are not just poking fun. No 
matter what the simple intention of that ac­
tion was, the action was harmful and insulting. 
Heidi Cerneka is a junior religious studies major at Saint Mary's and is a regular View­point columnist. 
Quote of the day 

"There is a land ofthe living and a land of the dead and the only bridge is love, the 
oruy  sunnru,  the  oruy  
meaning."  
Thorton Wilder  
(1897-1975)  

Tbe Bridge ofSan Luis Rey 
.· 



~i~~~_()__i___ll_t__________________Fr-id-ay_,N_ov-em_b_er-15-,1-98-5~-p~~e-8 
P.O. Box Q 

of political demonstration in the football The results have been devastating to our The fact that one chooses to get involved in
Fears of losing power 
stadium, he may have had a valid point; that, security interests in these countries. When the anti-apartheid movement does not however, is a completely different argument. dre majorities in these countries revolted, derogate any of the other causes mention~d
not worse than present 
Instead, he attempts to say that the events they succeeded in overthrowing the by Safranek. The difference is that we don't DearEditor: which took place in a small section of the minority-held governments. These newly believe that there has to be a quota of people
. 
:I 
' ' The relentless efforts of anti-apartheid ac· stadium prove that the student body is against formed governments tend to be resentful and devoted to each cau'Se. tivists at Notre Dame and abroad successfully divestment. I suggest the author wait for an often adopt anti-American policies. They of· I am certain that the blacks in South Africa have placed the issue of racist state policy at official student referendum; I think it might be ten eagerly embrace the arms of the Soviet would be glad to know that their cause is not a l· 
the forefront once again. Their success is a more accurate measure ofstudent opinion. Union. "clear social good" such as the pro-life move­evidenced by intense public debate, disinvest· 
Robert Tuttle Safranek's do-nothing approach, in essence, ment and soup kitchens. As moral issues go, ment measures taken by states and individual Notre Dame graduate student is asking the "fashionable" people to sit back Safranek echoes the writing ofGeorge Orwell: businesses, and the resort ofcommentators to and wait until South Africa explodes and the "Some pigs are more equal than others." Per­personal insults and thoughtless criticism of current government is overthrown. The haps my argument is flawed because it is anti-apartheid activists. Boundaries are not set likelihood of a hostile government rising into based on the premise that all men are created 
Concerning substance, the complexity of power in South Africa under our current equal.

on area of 'social good' 
South African apartheid is no argument for in· policy is very real. If Safranek thinks this is Paul D. Lochner 
action and continued toleration of economic DearEditor: unlikely, he should ask himself what hap· Notre Dame law student encouragement to the practice. Whether you 1 was going to respond to Chris Edwards' penedto Batista, Somoza, and the shah ofIran. call it social activism or political war, the push eloquent slanderings of the Anti-Apartheid Demanding university divestment is only a for disinvestment is firmly grounded on the Greatest chance of loss 
Network, but because I believe many will minor factor in pressuring the South African moral repugnancy of legally mandated racial react to that, I will focus my reply on the government to make meaningful changes in 
lies with present plan 

! 
diSenfranchisement, segregation and unequal equally offensive article below it. apartheid. As citizens ofa democratic society, treatment generally. In his article about the trendiness of the we have a right to voice our opinions when DearEditor: The argument against the end to black dis­South African issue, Steve Safranek finds a important issues arise. IfSafranek chooses to I am writing in response to a Nov. 8 View­enfranchisement, although not stated as such, problem with the simplicity ofanti-apartheid label this as "fashionable" then I guess it is. point article which argues to "Let South Africa 
is based on the notion of white supremecy. slogans. First of all, slogans are designed to be But, maybe ifwe had been more "fashionable" be South Africa.'' In the arguments for not im· The only alternative to white minority simple. It would be physically impossible as in the past, we could have prevented Cuba, posing economic sanctions on South Africa, I tyranny is said to be black majority tyranny. well as futile to attempt to explain the virtue Nicaragua, and Iran from falling into the hand~ find that the strongest arguments are in favor 
And so it is argued that grantingequal rights to of divestment on a bedsheet. Slogans ofanti-American governments.
are 

ofsanctions. blacks will ensure the political demise of meant to express an opinion succinctly, unify Luis G. Flores The author of the article, attempting to be white Afrikaners, whose minority interests group and discussion in the com· Notre Dame law student
a cause the ultimate pragmatist, states, "South Africa is 
could not be represented without a state of 
munity that sees or hears them. They do not a good ally as well as a strategic partner we 
apartheid. "seek solutions to complex problems." Repression of whites 
must not turn our pack on.'' He proposes the Surely the American experience 

Second, Safranek raises the question that threat ofcommunist influence ifwe allow the 
demonstrates the workability of confronting 
because "no history ofrights for minorites ex­majority to rule the South African govern­

is only mere conjecture
injustice and ensuring the legal protection of ists in South Africa," when the blacks are given ment. In actuality, the greatest chances of the minority and ·majority interests alike. Al· equal power, would they not in turn enslave 
DearEditor: United States losing influence in South Africa 
though the protection of political power and 
the whites? The answer is a resounding no. Steve Safranek's recent article on University would be to remain in "constructive engage·individual rights is far from perfect, Americans In the 70-odd years of organized protest divestment contained one valid point: his ment" with the Botha regime.
have advanced at least to the stage ofrejecting against white rule, never have the oppressed premise is all wrong. Because I am a fas­Casting all moral arguments aside, simple 
any form of apartheid and taken effective majority called for rever!;e discrimination. hionable, drug and sex-crazed activist, I find mathematics should make it evident that five measures to preserve political interests. Partly because of their Christian orientation, Safranek's views untenable. million whites cannot control 24 million While the fears of the white minority in the oppressed always have advocated power The biggest reason for the loss of freedom oppressed, angry blacks. A USA TodaySouth Africa of having their political power sharing, a one man, one vote political system, in Vietman and third· world countries is the editorial last month expressed it best when it diluted by the end to apartheid are well· and a free South Africa for all who live there. simple fact that we supported despotic said, "South Africa will self destruct if apar­grounded, the change in white lifestyles This remarkable attitude toward a govern­leaders. Rather than urging social reform in theid is not dismantled. No nation can survive 
would be inconsequential in comparison to ment that systematically has reduced non­
these countries, U.S. foreign policy has con­where the majority has no dignity, no vote and the political paralysis and state oppression so whites to the status of animals is noble, but I no right to live where it chooses."
centrated on beating the Marxists on the bat·
1/ 
long experienced by the black people. fear it cannot last forever. The white govern· tlefield. When the Marxists win, the United Although economic sanctions will hurt
1 
1 Kennan M. DeWitt ment better had le;u-n to share power soon be­States appears to be the bad guy. Experiences some blacks in the short run, they are the last l Notre Dame law student cause the time will come when that with the shah in Iran and Somoza in Central possible means we have of pressuring the 
generosity is no longer extended. .· America should have taught us this lesson. South African government to negotiate with.( No referendum held In conciusion, Safranek reflects on "why so Certainly the situation in South Africa is black leaders and averting a bloody civil war. 1( few Notre Dame students are involved in complex, but the arguments against divest· The author said we cannot abandon a friend 
promoting what are clearly social goods (like ment do nothing to solve the problem. as important as South Africa. I find striking the

( to pass student 'verdict' 
pro-life, soup kitchens, etc.), while so many The reason that Afrikaners find themselves choice of the word "friend" to describe the'[ DearEditor: are involved in promoting the cause ofSouth in the situation they are in is that they have United States' relationship with a countryI am writing in response to a Nov. 12 View­Africa." Since when is promoting equality in done nothing to alleviate the suffering of the practicing racial separation, but if we are 
l 
~ point article describing the "rather perverse" South Africa not a social good? black majority. The Afrikaners now must fight "friends" we should not allow South Africa to ­events which occurred at the Mississippi foot· Is it possible to be concerned about people their existence precisely because
for they commit suicide, which is what the govern­ball game. Chris Edwards apparently believes outside our nation, or is social good limited to have invidiously discriminated while provid· ment is doing by furthering the system ofapar­that hespeaks for the entire student body, or the United States? Safranek, I realize that 
ing no glimmer ofhope to the oppressed. theid. perhaps that the student body was 
charity begins at home, but your statement Safranek essentially argues that since the Amajor history lesson has taught us that we 
,I represented by the events he describes. echoes the myopic nationalism ~haracteristic black majority potentially might discriminate "should not try to force a country to reform its Edwards should hope that the entire stu­
ofthe white South African government. against the Afrikaners, the white majority policies.'' History has taught us the dangers oft dent body was not represented if his descrip· Susan Yadlon should be left in place. No, repression of a supporting oppressive regimes which, once
{ { tions were accurate. H the "overwhelming Notre Dame student minority is no less invidious than the repres· overthrown, leave the United States with no , . response" of the students "calling for 'more 
f sion ofa majority. avenue ofinfluence over those we had helpedinvestment' " and "an adamant 'go to hell' " is 
But the repression ofthe black majority is a to be oppressed. any indication of the student body's maturity 

Present investment plan 
reality, whereas the repression of the white The U.S. relationship withSouth Africa does 
l ( 
(not to mention Christian attitude), then per· 
minority is mere conjecture. Let's take care of allow us to have some influence on their ac­haps the administration is correct in treating 

threatens US security 
the repression that exists now, not the pos· tions. We cannot solve South Africa's us like children. 
sibility of repression that might occur in the problems, but we can help them to make a Let us hope in reality that these chants were DearEditor: • 
l 
future. choice. Ifonly to protect our own interests in. "shouted out of the dark, and like obedient In response to Steve Safranek's Nov. 12 ar­There is no causal link between U.S. invest· South Africa, the United States must use (but mindless) baaing sheep, some usually in­ticle, l will not attempt to make a moral argu­ment and South African policy. Nevertheless, economic sanctions to turn up the pressuretelligent people fell for the ploy and began ment against his reasoning. I can make moral it is not difficult to see that racial discrimina· for peace.
baaing 'go to hell.'" arguments until I turn blue in the face, but I tion is morally wrong. We in the United States Patrick Francis
{ 
{ Edwards charges that students "have been know that it would be impossible to give a have recognized this, and have passed laws in Grace Hall inundated with slanted and biased mis­
moral argument to someone who believes we order to remedy the great moral wrong ofpastrepresentation of the situation in South should keep a brutal and oppressive govern· discrimination. When one financially sup·Africa." It is interesting to note that he does 
ment in power, particularly when his argu­ports a government dedicated to discrimina­not offer any evidence to support this accusa­ment founded his for as imprimatur, an
is on concern the tion, it acts an implicittion. The very purpose for the events welfare ofthose who would be forced to share ratification ofwhat is being done. 


Policy

sponsored by the Anti-Apartheid Network and the government with the majority of its Racial discrimination is repul~ive to the the black and African Studies Programs, along 
citizens. Constitution ofthis country; to implicitly sup·with the special issue ofScholastic and articles Therefore, I would like to point out to the 
• All letters to the editor submitted to The

port it in another country is hypocrisy. The in The Observer, has been to inform students 
Observer become the property ofThe Ob­

"unfashionable" Safranek that student South African government is greatly depen­
server. Letters must be typed, no longeron the issue. ·demand for university divestment is the dent on American investment. There is not­

than 250 words and signed by the author.

There have been opportunities for all sides "fashionable" thing people can do. By adopt· hing objectionable to making investment to present their views on the issue. I wonder if ing a constructive engagement approach, a 
The Observer reserves the right to edit all

contingent upon the rectification of a moral the "slanted and biased misrepresentation" in· 
material received.

nice phrase meaning "do nothing," we are wrong that is contrary to the ideals of the in· elude only those views with which the author jeopardizing the security interests of our 
vestors. 
• Commentaries in The Observer do notdisagrees. ' 

country in South Africa. Finally, the fact Notre Dame permits Uni· He concludes by stating that the divestment Since Safranek demonstrated his ignorance 
necessarily reflect the opinions ofThe Ob­

versity researchers to experiment on the arguments have been heard, and that "the jury 
server.

of history by characterizing the 60s genera­tissue ofaborted fetuses is totally irrelevant to 
(i.e. the student body) has reached its ver· tion as over-sexed drug addicts, it is doubtful the issue of divestment. The University maydiet." How ignorant ofme, but I was not aware that Safranek can recall the many mistakes our be engaged in several"moral wrongs.'' Most of 
• Guest columns may not respond that a student referendum had taken place, or government has made in the past. He should 
directly to previous commentaries appear­

us here are rather busy with academics and ing in The Observer and may not exceed
do students always vote on issues in the foot· be aware that in the past ourforeign policy has extracurricular activities. 700words.
ball stadium? been to maintain the status quo ofoppressive It does not surprise me that someone would Ifthe author argued solely against any kind governments, i.e. Cuba, Nicaragua, and Iran. devote themselves to one particular cause. 
, 

"ieVVP.~O~i~n_t_______________________________________________F_ri_da~y~,_N_o_v_em__be_r_1_5_,_19_8_5_-~p~a~g__e9 

Pro-lifers are creating a permanent underclass 
-

"The wailing of the newborn infant is mingled with the dirge for the dead," said the ancient philosopher Lucretius. He could be referring to the Reagan administration's at­titude on pro-life action. President Reagan ar­dently opposes legalized abortion and received the implied support of some 
· American bishops during last year's election because ofit. In the past year, though, no pro­,ife action has been taken. 
MarkDrajem 
jazz appreciation 

These bishops, specifically Archbishop John O'Connor of New York, vehemently at­tacked Mario Cuomo and Geraldine Ferraro because these politicians did not denounce uniformly legalized abortion. This issue cer­tainly helped the President receive a sweep­ing mandate last November. Those who supported Reagan because of his abortion stand forgot that being pro-life encompasses much more than anti-abortion. 
Last fall, judging from the stir raised by the 
• religi.ous right and the Catholic bishops, it sec;med that action had to be taken against the plethora of unnecessary abortions. So far, not­hing has been done. There seem to be noplans for the future either. The president did not use his sweeping majority to organize legislation against abor­tion. He has not acted because the political advantage he gained from this issue is gone now that the election is over. 
Something has to be done to curb the wide­ranging effects of abortion. But for all his op­timistic speeches, Reagan has yet to act. 
Beyond the problem of inaction, lies the deeper problem ofwhat should be done. Pro­lifers and many others on the religious right believe that a constitutional amendment will end the abortion problem. 
As Mario Cuomo said in an interview with Commonwealth, "Why don't you reach out to every one of those pregnant kids in the ghet· tos? You want to avoid abortion? Don't talk to me about making a law. That's easy. That doesn't cost you anything." 
Just as drinking ages don't prevent us from getting all the booze we desire, illegal abor­tion only leads to the back alley. Ecomonic actions by the government must be taken to support those with no option but abortion. 
Pregnancy and raising children are ex­pensive. It sounds good to prohibit abortion legally, but further measures to make the law work, or more importantly, to prevent un­necessary pregnancies, must be taken. 
The two federal programs which could best reduce abortion are being cut by the present policy makers. Welfare "reform" is slashing budgets. The burden ofeducation has shifted to the localities. 
For all its moral and patriotic lingo, the ad­ministration is not taking care of the people who need it. Being pro-life means supporting opportunity for all people, but this is not being done. 
lbis leads back to Lucretius' point made 2,000 years ago. The "pro-life" administration suppons life, but does not allow that life to prosper. Without adequate welfaie and education a permanent underclass is emerg­ing. 
These folks are caught in the continuous cycle of poverty. They deserve the oppor­tUnity to break out. Single mothers denied basic welfare have no hope. Children passed through school, while they cannot read, have no hope. Inadequate and incompetent teac­hers do not allow these people any real life beyond their basic existence. 
Change is necesssary in our allocation of funds. The present administration spends $3,000 on coffee pots and destructive devices but cuts needy people from welfare because others are cheating. With the balanced budget now mandatory by 1991, more of these programs will be slashed. Unless reform is made, abortion and the other basic life issues will not be dealt with effectively. 
America has the duty to provide basic sub­sistence and opportunity for its people. Ifwe, as citizens and Christians, condemn the evil of abortion, we must act. Legislation is not ac-· tion. Action means finding adequate educa­tion for all people. It means providing the basics for all people. People must be given op­tions before they can take advantage of them. 
They must have hope ifthey are to bring life into the world. 
Mark Drajem is in the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame. 


Relationship with Russians fed with ignorance 
President Reagan once said. "Let's not delude ourselves, the Soviet Union underlies all the unrest that is going on. If they weren't engaged in this game of dominoes, there wouldn't be any hot spots in the world." Does he believe that? Do we believe that? It is easier to believe that, at times, we tend to deny the human quality of the Soviet people. 
Ken Kollman no easy solutions 
Americans are strikingly ignorant of Soviet leadership, history and culture, preferring in­ste;&d to think of them as non-humans, or as somehow less than a nation of people. So we have Dimitri Simes in the Christian Science Monitor say with all seriousness, "Its rulers, and unfortunately their subjects as weD, are not people like us." 
According to a New York Times survey, 76 percent of those Americans polled were unable to name Mikhail Gorbachev as the Soviet leader. Forty five percent were un­aware that the Soviet Union and the United States fought on the same side in World War II. 
As for culture and lifestyle, S6 percent said Russian workers work harder than American workers, but that they are "forced to be ... harder workers" and that they are awarded 
very little free time or choice of jobs. This is a fallacy, because, in fact, the Sovit:t Union has been called one of the "world's greatest goof­off societies." 
Russians usually are given a choice to spe­cialize in a certain field prior to higher education, and incidentally, the Soviet worker is given as much free time as the average American worker. 
There is a tendency to blame this ignorance on the fact that the Soviet Union is a dosed society and we do not have access to such and such information. The truth is, information regarding Soviet culture, poUtics and history is readily available in books, magazines and even the best newspapers, but Americans prefer quick TV news cUps that give nightly images ofU.S. and Soviet confrontation, paint­ing the Soviets as an agressive enemy. 
Whether the Soviet Union is a de facto enemy or not, television news shapes a fixed image of Soviet barbarianism, not only by showing us political moves such as Hungary in 1956, Czechoslovakia in 1968, Afghanistan in 1979, or the downing of a commercial air­liner, but also by giving few images ofreal-life, warm-blooded people of the Soviet Union. A flood of unflattering words such as cold, enemy, emotionless, sad, gray, brainwashed and spy often showed up in The Times survey. 
Grade•school history books cited in The New York Times Magazine credit the Soviet defeat of Germany in World War II almost entirely to the help of the United States. It is litde wonder that only 42 percent of Americans polled knew that more Russians than Americans died in World War II. 
What is so unsettling is that many of our leaders, particularly our.president, evidently believe the same sorts ofmisconceptions. A5 a result, Reagan sees the Soviets as "the focus of evil in the modem world," and "evil empire." 
Perhaps Reagan still believes Dean Ac­heson, who in 1947 said, "It is a mistake to believe that you can at any time sit down with the Russians and solve questions," or with Billy Graham in the 1950swho remarked, "My own theory about communism is that it is masterminded by Satan." In Reagan's black and white world, the hammer and sickle flies dark and devilish. 
Ignorance breeds mistrust, and our relationship with the Soviet Union is one of "bad faith," a phrase adopted by Henry Kis­singer. They refuse proposal and we assume they are aiming for superiority. We hold a NATO summit, and they think we are schem­ing. It is a cycle fed by ignorance. What we do in fact believe about the Soviet people fosters persistent mistrust. 

We seem to have a skewed image of 275 million people on this planet, but it is not just any 275 million people.It is the nation that we happen to be pointing 30,000 nuclear weapons at, and only when we begin to con­sider them as human beings can we deal with them effectively. Let us hope that Reagan's white hat is not over his eyes in Geneva, for he shall see that, alas, Gor'bachev does not goose­step into the room. 
Ken Kollman is a sophomore English and government major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Busmess Manager...................... Oav1d Stephenltch
Emtor-in-Chi,t.............................s.ah E. Hamilton
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editcx ..•.........................•.•••Amy Stephan Controller ............................. Wilham J. H1ghducheck Hen Editor ............................................. Frank Upo AdveiTISing Manager.............. . ........ J1m Hagan
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Umversity of 
Ne11111 Editor ................................... Dan McCulough Systems Manager ........................ Mark B Johnson 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessalily reflect the poliCies of the 
Saint Mer;'s Executive Editor ........ Thereea Gu.nno Production Manager....... .... John A. Mennefl 
admm1stration of etther 1nstitutlon. The news 1s reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sparta Editor ...........................................Jeff Blurnb 
Sible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen· 
Accent Editor .........................................Mary Heety 
tanes. letters and the InSide Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor .•......••.•...............•.•..•... Joe Murphy
ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expr9SSion of varymg opinions on 
PhotoQI8phy Editor ...................••.... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through letters, 1s encouraged. 
Copy Chief..........................................Philip H. Wof Founded November 3, 1966 



Accent

.\ 
Friday, November 15, 1985 -page 10 
food for thought for those serving the poor 
Notre Dame is doing its share of between 3 and 6 in the afternoon. warfare carried on with an adver­conscience-raising in the 1980s. The black kids shining shoes at sary ofdarkness named Satan.
Father Robert Griffin 
The problem on campus is that not midnight on Rush Street are not We've almost forgotten that he enough of us are hearing the cry of doing something that Parents exists; maybe he wants it that way, the poor. Would it be churlish of magazine recommends; but they so that his work will be hidden, like
Letters to a Lonely God 

0 
me to offer one or two reminders to are not facing the equivalent of the a saboteur's. our student social activists who are sufferings of David Copperfield or Maybe Satan doesn't exist in a ne of.the ad~antages of wounded in the conscience by trying so hard to be the witnesses of Oliver Twist either. literal sense; maybe Satan is a name 
growmg up m a poor state as famine and poverty in the slums, Christ? ( 3) Some ofthe great apostles of we have for evil, or maybe Satan is 
the member ofa working class here or abroad. Any Christian wil­( 1 ) Be careful, when you visit the charity I have met in New York just the personification we use for 
family during the Depression is that ling to identify himself(or herself) inner city, not to act like rich col­recently are the men and women iniquity which can destroy our 
you have a realistic idea ofwhat with the poorest ofthe poor has the lege kids who seem to be out slum­who volunteer to work in hospitals, souls. I'm an agnostic when it 
poverty means. For me, it means kind ofgrace in his soul that could ming. The slums are not a tourist helping out victims ofAIDS. They comes to the theology ofwhether 
seeing your father always struggling make him a saint. None ofus can attraction where you go with have a special kind ofcourage, I Satan is a person. However, someth­
to keep the wolfaway from the forget the pictures ofhuman beings cameras on a sight-seeing spree. think, and the kind ofcompassion ing alien to the welfare ofthe race is 
door. with arms and legs so thin they look The winos, brown-bagging it with the saints had when they took care at work: famine in Africa is only part 
like blackened twigs offa tree. booze in the parks, know why you of the lepers. ofthe problem. Ifyou don't believeMaybe one ofus kids needed a Close to home, you can see the old are there: that's why some of them ( 4) The fundamentalist Protes­it, read the papers.
new pair ofshoes: something warm 

person in the deli with a few coins look at you with hard, mean eyes. tants were recently reminded that Catholicism teaches a love of the to keep out the cold and wet of wrapped in a napkin, haggling with The bag ladies asleep in the door­there are other Scripture verses widow and the orphan, as set forthwinter. That child might be kept a bOred clerk over the price oftwo ways don't want your help. They than the one which warns: "For all by the Old Testament prophets. It
home from school for two or three 

slices ofbread and a piece of know you're just passsing through; have sinned and come short of the also teaches us the love ofa God
days until money could be found 

cheese, which represents the only except for a cigarette, you can't do glory ofGod." Catholics need the whom we will see face to face. The
for the shoes: money that could be 

meal for a week. anything to help them, and they'd reminder these days that the entire pure of heart, the Lord said, are thespared from its use in furnishing us 
In a rich country flowing with rather be left alone. The truly des­religion isn't summed up it the ones who will see God. He said: "Iwith the necessities: food, coal, 
milk and honey, or in a world titute hate your pity. Part ofthe promise: "Ifyou have done it unto am the Vine, and ye are the 
rent, medicine. I'm not going to 

blessed with fields, gardens and shame ofbeing destitute is that you the least of my brethren, you have branches." We are the members ofa
poormouth myselfexcept to say 

orchards so productive that they get looked at with pity. done it unto Me." Mystical Body. That means, I think,
that I know what poverty means. 

seem a fulfillment of the Biblical ( 2) Be sure yo~ understand what The work ofour century is cer­we have our work cut out for us, as 
Other families were worse off promises ofplenty, you ask your­you are seeing. Some ofthe most tainly the labor ofliberation, setting the New Testament makes clear. than mine. My father always had a self: "Why the injustice?" The Lord piteous beggars are professional; if the captives free of hunger, illness, We have miles to go before we job. We were spared the humilia­warned that the poor would be you don't believe it, I'll introduce and fear ofwar; all ofthis goes close sleep. The world is in deep, deep, tion ofbeing on relief. We knew with us always. This is not becuase you to a few. The deserving poor to the heart of the Gospel. Sin is also trouble. In our hurry to bind up the people who made weekly trips to the Lord wants the poverty but don't walk down streets famous as an ancient enemy which enslaves wounds on a bleeding body, we the welfare office for groceries. because the selfishness ofpeople tourists' attractions during the us: lust, hate, murder, covetousness, shouldn't forget the deep things of Their lives were pretty grim. keep them blind to the beggars at dinner hour. You will see more of hunger for power, and all other God that eye has not seen, nor ear 
I have the greatest admiration the gate, though it's probably not God's underground between 3 and forms ofinterior corruption. Our heard, nor has_it entered into the and affection for students who feel that simple. 6 in the morning than you will see forefathers saw life as a spiritual mind of man to know. 
Father Rock gives out the ' 
Tbts is tbe ntntb episode in Tbe Gingerly, Father Rock removed the Observer's serialpublication oftbe Notre blanket. Damefootball story, "Tbe Gipper's Ghost., Two stone tablets stood on the pedestal. In last week's episode, halfback Dutch There, etched in stone were several lines Reagan ( tbe ghost ofGeorge Gtpp), an­written in English. They were numbered gered by a column written b)• Tbe Obser­from one to 10. ver's Sports EditorNicki Summers, bad The heading said: THE TEN COMMAND­rushed offto Breen-Pbillips to confront MENTS OF NOTRE DAME. Summers, but was embarassed wben be discovered there were women atNotre "Boys, I can't tell you where these came Dame, including those who led sports from. You wouldn't believe me if I did. departments. Trust me. These came from a very 
knowledgeable source. Just know that if 
you memorize these commandments, and practice them, you'll turn the Notre Dame 
The ten 

football team into contenders for the national championship." 
commandments 

"For the benefit ofthose ofyou in the
of Notre Dame 
T 
uesday's practice found the new chaplain, Father Rock, promoted to assistant-coach-for-the-day. 
"Gather around, boys, gather around," said Coach Kelly at the start of practice Tuesday. "Today, we have something s~cial for you. Our new chaplain, Father Rock, is going to make a special presenta­tion. I want you to pay very close attention. Father ...." 
"Thanks,Joe. Well, boys, I guess you can call this session the gospel according to Father Rock. I'm going to give you some sound advice, some words to win by." 
A dark blue Notre Dame Monogram blanket lay draped over an object on a small pedestal beside him. 
The Glpper's Gho~ 
·Chapter N1ne ~ 

•se r•
"Boys, beneath this blanket are the ~ ~crets ofwinning football. What will be revealed to you here teday will transform ---­the Fighting Irish." 
=­
From between the douds, a bright, ­shimmering shaft oflight suddenly ap­­
peared, seemingly focused on the pedestal. Rock thought, You hot dog! God always did 
...
have a flair for the dramatic. But I guess even He can be excused for being a showoff ~ every now and then. Es~cially when you can do what He can do. ~/
~ , 

new ' ten commandments 
back, I'll read these out loud." "The seventh commandment. Thou shalt In a clear, compeUing voice, Father Rock not sell thy Notre Dame football tickets began reading. above their actual face value." "The first commandment. Thou shalt not "The eight commandment. Thou shalt tarnish the image ofNotre Dame." not be a hot dog." "The second commandment. Thou shalt "The ninth commandment. Thou shalt always remember the importance ofalumni not covet thy opponent's cheerleaders." contributions, and score touchdowns Father Rock paused. accordingly." "The last commandment is perhaps the "The third commandment. Remember to greatest ofall. IJsten very carefully." always keep protected thy quarterback." Authoritatively, Father Rock spoke. "The fourth commandment. Honor thy "The tenth commandment. Thou shalt coach." never lose to USC." "The fifth commandment. Thou shalt not The student managers, always efficient, fumble." immediately began distributing copies of "The sixth commandment. Thou shalt the ten commandments to the players. not get caught in the act ofcommitting a "Insert these in the front ofyour needless penalty." playbooks, fellas. There will be a quiz tomorrow," said Coach Kelly. Father Rock continued, "Keep these commandments and the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame have a very good chance of winning a few games this year. Maybe quite a few." Father Rock added, "Now, boys, ifyou break these commandements, you'll be held accountable to me. Coach Kelly has authorized me to dispense penance in the form oflaps and push-ups! Are there any questions?" O'Connor raised his hand. "Ryan?" "Father, which ones are mortal sins?" "The first, fifth, seventh, and the tenth. Especially the tenth." "You mean the ninth one -the one about the cheerleaders ­isn't a mortal sin?" O'Connor looked relieved. "No, Ryan," Father Rock said, "It just wouldn't be fair. Whoever originally wrote the words, 'deliver us not into temptation,' had never seen the USC cheerleaders." "So, what happens ifa high-quality tight -end like me breaks one of them?" "Well, Ryan, when you meet St. Peter at the Pearly Gates, I might suggest one thing." "What's that, Father?" "Show him your press clippings. And pray!" To be continued ... from "'I'M Gippcr's Ghc»t," copyripl 198~ by Robert Q...Unbuah. Publiahcd by O'Connor Publishlns Co. kprlntfil by permission.  

The Observer Friday, November 15, 1985-page 11 

• 
Cross-quad football championships between the section football winnern of Fisher Hall and Morrissey Hall will be 
I 

held Sunday at 1 p.m. on the South Quad between the two halls. -The Observer 
WVFI Sports will broadcast the Notre Dame-Penn State football game tomorrow, beginning with "The Irish Today" at 2:50 
p.m.. Pete Pranica and Kelly Brothers will handle the play-by-play on WVFI, AM-64. -The Observer 
NVA Century Club is a program to promote in­dividual exercise and fitness. Applicants select an exercise and pledge a personal fitness goal. When the applicant reaches his/her goal, a free Club T-shirt will be given out. To fill out a pledge card or to get more information call the NV A office. -Tbe Observer 
Racquetball enthusiasts who are looking for 
competition should mail an index. card to 308 Walsh Hall by Friday, Nov. 22, stating name, address, phone number, skill level, and campus court preference. For more information call Michele Debrey at 283-4526.-The Observer 
ND Women's Track Club practices wm begin 
Monday. Those running 800-meter and/or longer distances should 
' meet at the main circle at 4:30 p.m.. Those running 400-meter or shorter distances, as well as those in field events, should meet at the ACC track dome at S p.m.. For more information call Mary Beth at 277-1983 or Nancy at 283-4222.-The Observer 
A co-ed volleyball tourney. four on four, will 
be held Monday evenings at the Angela Athletic Facility beginning this Monday and running until Dec. 19.. Women players must be SMC students. Applications are due Friday, Nov. 22 to the Angela Athletic Facility. For more information call the Angela Facility at 284-5549 or Karla at 284-4354.-Tbe Obseroer 
NVA fitness focus newsletter is published 
monthly and is available fhrough campus mail at no expense. To be placed on the mailing list call NVA at 239-5100.-Tbe Obseroer ­
The ND Weightand Fitness Club will spon 
sora bench press competition on Sunday, Dec. 8 at a time and loca. tion to be announced. Sign-ups are being taken in the third floor, weight room ofthe Rockne Memorial Building, and any member of the ND/SMC community is welcome. For more information call Pat Browne at 283-2056. -The Observer 
NVA basketball officials are needed for co-ree 
basketball, men's and women's interhall, and club basketball. For more information call the NV A office. -Tbe Observer 
The Off-Campus hockey team will hotd a practice Sunday at 11:1 5 p.m. in the ACC. All players should bring S3 to pay for ice time. For more information call Tim Connors at 288­5484. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 13 
Kentucky 
looked into 
LEXINGTON, Ky. -Kentucky coach Eddie Sutton said yesterday that he doesn't believe the NCAA will come down hard on his basket­ball program after its investigation into allegations that former players accepted money and gifts from boosters. 
The Lexington Herald-Leader reported on Oct. 2 7 that 26 former Wildcats said they had accepted gifts, sold their free season tickets I for more than S1,000 and been paid for speeches, all in violation of Na-\. tional Collegiate Athletic Associa­tion rules. 
_The reported activities occurred during coach Joe B. Hall's 13-year tenure at Kentucky that ended last March. Sutton was named head coach on April 5 after spending the past l 1 seasons at Arkansas. 
"I've got to believe the NCAA won't do much about it," Sutton said during a Southeastern Conference media meeting. "Most NCAA penalties come in recruiting." 
An NCAA official said last week that the investigation probably would take six months. 





Classifieds 
Tht' Obserr·er :\otrt' Damt' offin·. lm:atnJ on tht· third floor of Lafortune ..,tudt·nt <.t·nrt-r. .u. n·pb da!>!>ifkd advt'rll!>tn~ from lJ a m until -t p m . :\tonda\ through l·nda\ The Obst>rr·er !\atnt :\tan·., offitt". lot·att·d on tht' thtrd floor of llag~o:ar Colkgt· <xntt'r. anTpt., t·la">ifinh from 12 :'tOp m. until .'\ p m. :\ton· da\ though htda\ lkadlint· for nt·xt da\ tla.. .,itlt-d., ,., .J, p.m :\II da~.,ifit:d!> mu..t ht· prepa1d. l'ltht·r in pt'r.,on or h\ ma1l <:hargc: i., I 0 t"l"nl!> per fin: <:harac­lt'r., r da\· 
LOST: A Norton Anthology in O'Sh~. Ride needed to SyracuM, NY (Marlliua) DESPEMTEL Y NEED LSU STUDENT PITTSBURGH CLUB Thantlagiving Bue: TONIGHT!!! probMlly room 204 after 10:10 cte., for Thankag!ViJ'1G. PIMae call MllfVarel TICKETS OR GA'S. CALL TODD OR MEETING: Thure Nov 14 6-7 pm at Little FMHION VIC't)IJISNOTICES probllbly Wadi. before brMk. If you found 4068. JOHN AT 1073 Theatre, LaFortune INFO: Leavee: Wed A BEAUX ARTS AAu. it or uw aomeone pick it up, pleMe let me Nov 27 2:00 pm from CCE(ND) & Holy $4 Preeale (at the dining halll) know. CArey, 3700. Need ride to l.l. or NYC. Wll ahare P· I NEED 2 LSU GA'S. CALl 272-4540 CrOII(SMC) Retume: Sun Dec 11:00 pm $5 at the door 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
peneea. Can leave 11 /26. Call Rod at from Greyhound Term. in Pitt. $55 featunng: NICHOLAS TREIIUU8 287-4082 
LOST: A GUESS WATCH. LOST IN K1768. WANTED I 2 GA'S TO THE ST. JOE VS. roundtrip, $4() one--y QUESTIONS: HAYES.HEAL Y RM. 23 IF FOUND NO BASKETBAU GAME ON FRIDAY CaiiA.J. x1844 PLEASE CONTACT BRUSH AT 287-RIDERS TO CHI-O'HARE OR VICINITY NOVEMBER 22. CALL MIKE AT 1173. Tonight at the .EAUX ARTS. ChiQgo'aTYPING CALL CHN8 234-8117 
6518. FOR TURKEY BREAK. CALL STEVE BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN LIVE TAPES hotteet night dub act, NlchoiM Trwnulla 3318 NEED 4 LSU GA'S-CALL LIZ 284-4102 from al tour1 for Nle.Call2011 for info. and hia aeven member, R&B, funk, punk, HELP WANTED 
FOUND: A SET OF KEYS IN A C.B. grooving dance bind wil get down to $60.00 PER HUNDRED PAID for 
JACKET AT SENIOR BAR... YOU MUST Riderl needed to Ath-/Atlanta area, NEED GA'S FOR LOUSIANA ST. 4 SENIORS! HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES aome Mrioua jamming and alamming at pr~ng mail at homet Information. 
HAVE RUN OFF WITH MINE. .. CALL ME leaving Wed. Nov. ~6. returning Sun. Dec. TOO ETHER OR 2PR. CALL BIU X3467. wen as a volunteer in aeveral U.S. citi11. the ARCHITECTURE BUILDING In lend Hll·eddrMM<I. atamped envelope. 
AT X3489 TO IDENTIFY... THANKS A 1. Call Mike at 1806 Applicatioo: Mary Ann Roemer, 7949. beautiful down town aouth ql!~. So come Auoclatee. Box 95, ROMIIe, New J«My 
lzocl broth.,. and Pailley lilt.,. (and II 07203 
WHOLE LOT 

Need two LIU atudent tix. Cal Mary at you otherr~. jean jacket wearing/awatchLSU GAl FOR SALE.272-6306 
bearing individualilll) to the Ill IIEAUX
HELP!!!LOST MY WALLET ON MON­1367

I1G-ae0 WEEKLY/UP IIAIUNG aR­
DAY NIGHT(PROBABLY IN MTa in your moat VlcniiiZED F.._ 
CULAMI NO QUOTMI 81NCIRELY WILL PAY ANY PRICE FOR I!ITHP
LAFORTUNE OR IN THE MAIN FOR SALE HIONS and dance until you drop to the in­
INTIMalED RU8H MLF· TWO Ofll THREE L8U QA'L PUME 
NEW t-aound ol NICHOLAS TREMULIS!!! 
LIBRARY). IT IS A NOTRE DAME WAL­

ADORUMD ENVELOPE: 8UCCEI8, CALLMUCE AT 41141t ANYn••
LET AND DOES HAVE MY IDENTIFICA­AeroemithPO .OX 470CEG, WOODaTOCK, IL 
TION IN IT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL Simple Minda 
101111. Original French Perfume now available liMy L8U tl• for ...., c.IGrei diU
MICHAEL AT 234·7350 (BEST AFTER Thompeon Twina Thankl, St Jude 
on campue! 3.4 fl. oz. only $18. lmportac In lhe evenlne

7:00PM). THANKS! MonieOaydirectly from France. Call 272-5206 bet· 
and more! 
To the rowing QUEEN. And the

DPIJIT TYPING NRVICE. CALL ~ 6-8pm and aak for a produd TO SEU.-LSU STU TICKET·2741·ASK Onlyl.l8
Found-P11r of glaMM lui Wedoeeday fudgellde FEINE, 11'1 YOU Kely JEAN!
FOR GRACE 
demonltratioo.

liM. COKP, 211-7001. night in front of the CSC. Haa light Rock duLac, 111 floor LaFortune Happy NINETEEN!! luv your roomiea brown/a-pa.tic Ira~. c.IIK1550 to "'three-n' 
IW81NEI8 DPMU, INC. BLAUPUNKT cer atereo, equalizer, FOR SALE -2 LSU STUDENT TICKETS 
daim. 

Wonlpt a~ 1111,.and typl,. power booeter, 4 apeekara. powerful CALL 284-4425 HAPPY 20th BlRTHDAY KEN DICE! 
I think I get the picture. ·Chria 
272-8127 equip.-low pecUge deal. 28~2

FOUND: SMALL. GREY FEMALE CAT­IN NORTH QUAD AREA. CALL 1374 OR eveninga. Fact One: 'Apartheid il an evolving 2206 AND CLAIM YOUR KITTY!!! flexible eyllem of racial diec:riminatioo TYPING "76 TOYOTA WAGON 4.CYUNDER. 4 and economic exploitation.' Hi Becky! 277.o41 SPEED. SOME RUST, RUNS VEAY 
PERSONALS

LOST!! One CASIO WATCH. Dual digital FREE PICKUP & OEUVPY and normal watch faca. Bleck t.ld. If you WEU PRICE: 1750 277·5284 REFLECTIONS IN THE DOME i1 now 
1 
A milton million apermatozoa, II olthem

have il, pleMe call 2480 EVENINGS. availltble in the Notre Dame Bookatore! TYPING alive: Out of their cataclyam but one poor
Take a bit ol Notre Dame hillory horne
Everyone hu platH of iron ana rowt 
Noah dare hope to aurvive And among a

Jecldehlla LOST ... DARK GREEN CARDIGAN with you for Chrillmu. From JUNIPER
ofepikH aomewh-i"*d• that My this

114-1111 Convert a bike to uarcycle with eteal PRESS bilion minua one might ~e chanced to
SWEA TER ...VIAGIN WOOL/WOOL 
i1 u far u you go with me.

ltand, immobi~zaa rear Wheal, 115; '-dlaa be Shekeepeare, another Newton, a newBLEND, FRONT POCKETS, GRAY BUT· 
tennil racket, llretcher tram.. 125. 277-Dnnne... But the one wu JuMe!!! Happy 19
TONS... MARYLIN MONROE BUTTON 
·Richard Bach,

SEWING -MENDING ·AI..TERATIONS 1226, after 7. J.J.. -Ioveyou!
ATTACHED... MADE IN IRELAND(?)... 
The~. Acroee Forw•272-()971 

NOT AN EXPENSIVE SWEATER, BUT ANYTIME! ANYWHERE! I NEED A RIDE 
FOR SALE: ONE COUGAR TICKET 284-Dear Annemarie, Happy birthday to you
IT WAS MY FAVORITE ... IF FOUND 4154 Thereaa (or whatever you are calling TO CHICAGO FOR THANKSGIVING 
Happy birthday to me

PLEASE RETURN ... WlU GLAOlY PAY BREAK' CALL MARY AT 1323 IF YOU
youi'Mif til...days). 
Happy birthday dear Annemarie

REWARD OF DOUBlE ORIGINAL Happy 19th Birthday!! Hope you have a CAN HELP ME OUT AND WE'Ll CHAT!
OIR ORV TURNTABLE WISHURE Happy birthdy to UlPRICE. 283-2164 or 25 MoniMey. great weekend, but don't eat too much
CARTRIOOE:EXC COND:CALL MATT love Anne-Merie

THANKS. cake. The aecret ia out! Congratulationa John
392613234

LOST/FOUND I 
Z'-bert, but don't you think aeven yew~ i1 Found: cer key belonging to an Audi. Haa along time to be ENGAGED?! been taken to L.oet & Found, La Fortune. 
INDIANA KHANNE AND THE TEMP\.E 

LOST • ONE GOLD LOOP EARRING OF CHEIEU-N-EQQ8 FOR TICKETSLOST FRIDAY AT RIVERVIEW LODGE·
ABOUT 6 WEEKS AGO SOMEWHERE OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. Dear MOM, DAD & GRAM: Welcome to CALL CHRIS 284-4021 ANY TIME DAY35mm MINOL TA CAMERA -PLEASEBETWEEN PANGBORN AND REGINA 
TICKETS 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.. 1 N.D.! Thankl for a great 19th 8-day. 
OR NIGHT!!!
RETURN FOR REWARD!!!! 284·5146 

IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. HarM to you, cheers! Love M.D.G. 284-4006. 
LOST FRIDAY AT RIVERVIEW LODGE·LOST SILVER BEADED BRACELET ­

DESPERATELY NEED 2 LSU GA'8-PREGNANT? CATHY LE..OUXI The Summar of MINOL TA 35mm CAMERA • PLEASE
REWARD 284·5119 

LOST: Gold Elgin watch, probMlly at WIU PAY TOP $$'CALL JOHN AFTER NEED HELP? 53.. Tile J«Hy Shore.. Thoee --. th e RETURN FOR REWARD'!!! 284·5146 Senior 8er on H..,_ Ol_....mental 
11PMAT4601. Call 234-()363. 24-hr. hodine, couneeling dMindav-! value-gift from perenta for 18th birthday. 
& free pregnancy teall. 

11 found, pleUe call Angela at 272-9623 
NEED 10 PENN STATE TIX (GA OR WOMEN'S CAllE CENTER 

CREAM YOUR FAVORITE L YONTEIII MR. AZAR: HEUO AGAIN SCHANNE!! 
STDNT) CALl 4434 

LOST: ONE TOYOTA KEY BETWEEN WANTED CREAM YOUR FAVORITE LYONTEIII SCHANNE: HI MR. AZAR, HOW ARE SENIOR BAR AND CUSHING IF FOR JUST $3 YOU CAN EXPERIENCE THE CHEESE-N·EGGS TODAY?? 
WANTED FOfll A RICH DOCTOfll: EARN $$$ FOR ALL THOSE BOOKS 

YOU'VE FOUND IT, PLEASE CALL THE CHILDISH DELIGHT OF MR. AZ.AR: WONDERFUL AS USUAL •
8 GAl in blockl of 2 or more for the LSU YOU DIDN'T READ!! PANDORA·s WIU. 

2631. THIIIOWINQ A PIE AT ANY LYONS YOU SHOULD KNOW THAT
ATTENT10H JOHN! II game. BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M-F 11-4. OR 

GIRL! SIGN UP TUES OR WED DINNER SCHANNE!!
WANTED ON 11/17/86: $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WE CAN HELP YOU FIND A USED FOUND: A watch on Sunday morning, IN SOUTH DINING HALL, OR WATCH SCHANNE: YEAH TEAM!t I LIVE FOR
ONE BIRTHDAY BOY Call Fran at2687. BOOK FOR A CLASS. WE'RE OPEN M­11110. Call MM-k at 2450 and ~be it. FOR THE SIGN-UP FORM IN MON­CHEESE-N-EOOS!1 
IN HIS BlRTHOAY SUIT F 1Hi, SAT&SUN 10.5. PANDORA'S IS DAY'S OBSERVER. PIES WIU. BE

IN THE SHOWER OPPOSITE CORBY'S ] 937 SOUTH THROWN FN NOV 22, 4:00 UNDER 

...... .. ....... .. ........ .. .. KRIS (NOT CARA!J HI, my name Ia Alicia encl I ..m your BEND AVE . 
LYON'S ARCH. ALL PROCEEDS TO TOM, Mmmmm! Better late than never
LOST!! A PEARL RING WITH GOLD ltUdent L8U tlcbt. 
NO'S ADOPTED CAMBODIAN FAMILY. Glad you are finely here. LOVE YOU!
BAND. SOMEWHERE 11/8. PLEASE c.n you help me? Grad atudent needl $$$$$$ 
CREAM YOU.. FAVORITE LYONTEIII TRISH
PLEASE HELP! CALL CARRIE ride to Youngatown, Ohio for Turkey Pleaae call 2687. 
CREAM YOUR FAVORITE L YONTEIII 
ROBERTS 113221. BrMk Make my parenta happy. pleae HUNGRY? Call YEUOW SUBMARINE call Laura at 272-6014 at 272-HIKE. Delivery houri: 5pm-12pm 
LOST:BACKPACK,NAVY8LUE-C~ NEEDED DESPERATELY: 2 LSU GA'a Monday-Thuraday; 5pm-2am Friday: TAINS NORTON'S ANTHO OF HEY! Need ri1e to PennS! to -lri8h bite CALL LAURA 3839 3pm-1am Saturday; and 4pm-10pm Sun­TESS AND FRANK. EUYN AND ERIC!!t POETRY, 1 NOTEBOOK. AND A the big "'1 'c.ll 2585 late day. RACHEL ANN NIGRO HAVE FUN AT THE DANCE. me SPANISH TEXT. NOTES VERY IMPOR­PENN 8TATE nx NEEDED "We really, really ~ke you!' TANT! IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL JIM Need riderl to Atlanta area 11/27-12/1 . CALL 1104 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Happy 22nd Birthday Teaa Guarino, you fly old dog you, what AT 1607. c.11 Ed 232-8230. --NEW LOCATION-Ruah St. wil never know what hit it! have you been up to? me! 
311EAdBidg LOST!!! Small navy Coech pui'M. Coo­TAKE ME HOME, PLEME NEED PENN ST. GA'S (by Student Aff•rel 
~·•u• 

taiJW Iota ol ID plua keys! P..... <*I I'd like to 10 to at. Pall, Minneeota for PLEASE CALL: Kevin 8 Quioo Not only are you aweaome Any day ia fine with me ... 4203. Sizeable rewwd olfarlld. Then1181fvl,. Mel I'd like to be thenk· PHIL:288-4753 11:30-12:3() M-F bUt with thoae new ~-tnmldibfy 
tul to rou tor •vtne -• ttde.. 1 .., DEAN:2811-3482 $20-200 MXY • wei! You aiwav-make our clay. LOST: gold Avia watch with brown ...!her IMve enrtl-8ftlr 1:24 p.111. lllondlly. MARK:19V7 30 dav-1 percent intereat can we ever make youra? Forev• two bend. PleMe ~ 284-4230 ,.._.Cllll John •1114. devaled frienda. 
fiiL 
~-­
The Observer Friday, November 15, 1985 -page 12 

l \ 
! 
!
l . 
! 
' 
' 
i 
I 
..I 

• 
ID•no•va•tor(in'e-va'ter)n. 1. One who begins or iritroduces something new; one who is creative. 
2. THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES. 
AND YOU CAN TOO. 
• 
Ideas spark innovation. Imagination fuels it. Achievement realizes it. 
At The Travelers, we challenge your po­tential so you can strive for innovation. 
So let your ideas help shape our future. And yours. 
Write to:· Rubin Fisher, Assistant Director, College and Professional Recruiting, Depart­ment 31, The Travelers Companies, One Tower Square, Hartford, Ct 06183. 


TheTravelerSJ' 
The Travelers Companies Hartford. Connect1cut 06183 


The Observer Friday, November 15, 1985 -page 13 
Briefs 
Ct,ntinuedfrom page 11 .., 
NVA information is available by calling 239-6too or by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC. -The Obseroer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday 
through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number of the person submitting it. -Tbe Obseroer 
SUNSHINE PRDMDTIDN PRESENTS: 

JOHN COUGAR 
MELLENCAMP THE SCARECROW TOUR 

Saturday. Nav•mb•.. tli, 8:DDpm Nat..e Dam• R.C.C. All ••ata r•••rvedI t4.5D 
tickets available at the ACC Box Office, area Sean, Robertson's, Elkart Truth 

AHention: Notre Dame Employees YOU CAN JOIN THE FIRST LOCAL IPA*HMO IN THE MICHIANA AREA 
Key
Health 




Plan 

100% 
TOTAL HEALTH CARE WITH NO DEDUCTIBLES AND MINIMAL ·COPAYMENTS 
COVERS 
IN FULL 
Wholly Owned by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Indiana 
*Individual Practice Association (you personally choose a privately practicing physician as your health care manager) 
..,_OFFICE VISITS ..,_ROUTINE CHECK-UPS ..,_ PREGNANCIES ..,_SURGERIES ..,_ HOSPITALIZATIONS 
• 
..,_ EMERGENCY CARE BOTH IN AND OUT OF AREA ­WORLDWIDE­..,_PAP SMEARS ..,.IMMUNIZATIONS/INOCULATIONS 


KEY HEALTH PIAN 


'V'. r, 

~-~L_-_* ...-.--_---_
-·------­
·' 
Thoe ObarrvrrrFik 

Irish bead coach Mary DtStanislao wtll once scrimmage on Sunday. For details on -the again try to rally herplayers to antJtberNorth Star scrimmage, see Phil Wolfs story on the back_page. Conference Championship this season. Fans will For details on the latest lrlsb recruit for nextyear, get a lQoll at tbis year's squad during its annual see story below. 


Forward commits to Irish women 
Spedal to The Obeener 
Cathy Emigholz, a 6-1 forward from New Dorp, N.Y., has made a commitment to play basketball for the Notre Dame women's team beginning next season. 
An honorable mention pick on Street & Smith's preseason All-


Interhall 
continuedfrom page 16 
on a pushing foul in front of the Crime's goal was ruled to be outside of the penalty kick area, and the Studs failed to convert the indirect kick near the end of the first half. Standford seemed to lose much of their initial intensity after that call, America team, Emigholz told Irish coach Mary DiStanislao of her intentions early yesterday af­ternoon. 

"Cathy is a solid player," said DiStanislao. "She hustles and plays both ends of the floor very well. She is a good shooter and a good rebounder, although I think she will have to increase her 
and the half ended with the Crime on top, 1-p. 
The second half saw the Crime starting to dominate play in the Stan­ford end, and 14 minutes into the half, the Crime's Tom White beat a Stud defender inside the penalty area, but was tripped from behind before he could launch a shot. The Crime were awarded the penalty kick, and Buddy Webster beat the Studs' goalkeeper to his right to give the Crime a 2-0 advantage with his second goal ofthe night. 
With 21 minutes gone in the half, the Crime struck again. This time, Tom White, deep in the Stud's defensive left corner, booted a 
shooting range for the college game." 
DiStanislao, who said she envi­sions Emigholz mainly as a small forward, said yesterday that she will not sign any more players during the early signing period, which began on Wednesday and runs through next Wednesday. 
crossing pass that deflected off of a Stud defender high in the air. Mark McVeigh was waiting for the Crime as he subsequently headed the ball into the net. 
Two minutes later, the Crime put the icing on the cake as Paul Schoner beat the Studs' goalie to a crossing pass that gave the Crime a 4-0 advantage. That proved to be the final score as the Crime began their celebration. 
"There's just so much talent on this team," said Pecoraro. "Anytime you get a bunch of guys together to practice on a muddy field on Tues­day and Wednesday afternoons this 
week, it shows a lot ofdesire." 

-------------------~-------­
Featuring 24 bulb beds with facial Unit. Our large, contoured beds are over 7 feet long and provide a 360° tan. 2314 So. Bend Ave.(next to Martins) Call for appointment 277-6444 
Open 7-9 Mon-Frl 8-8 Saturday 

Tickets are $6.50, $5.50, $4.50 A dollar off to students and senior citizens. 
For ticketln{onnation cal/284-4626 
I I I I 


The Observer Friday, November 15, 1985 -page 14 

Non-Varsity Athletics All-Nighter 
Schedule oftonight's events 
Phoenix 'ofr to miserable 0-9 start 
A51odakd Preu 
PHOENIX, Ariz.· They quickly are becoming the new laughing stock of the National Basketball Association, but the Phoenix Suns aren't laughing about being the league's only win­less team. 
"We're going to get out of this mess," said Coach john Macleod, whose dub is offto th~worst start of its 18-year history at 0-9. 
"Once we learn a little patience and better judgment, we'll be OK. If we're going to be in a slump, I'd rat­her have it now and then come on strong in the end. But we have put ourselves in this position. It is up to us to get out ofit." 
The Suns, who last season, had their first losing record in eight years at 36-46, have switched from a finesse style to a run-and-gun offense with hopes of catching the world 


Tommies 
continuedfrom page 16 
for the Irish on home ice thus far into the young season. Notre Dame has beaten Kent State twice but has dropped six consecutive road games. While Smith can not explain his team's up-and-down play when it comes to ·travelling, he looks for­ward to being on familiar ice at the ACC tonight and tomorrow tonight. 
"It's hard to explain our record on the road," Smith says, "but I think the home ice helps a great deal. When you're playing on the ice you're used to practicing on all week, and when you know how the put:k comes off the boards -I think those things all help." 
Senior goaltender Marc Guay gets the starting nod in tonight's contest, while junior Tim Lukenda will start in goal tomorrow night. According to Smith, sophomoreJeff Henderson will be "waiting in the wings" 
The Irish will be without the services of sophomore center Mark Anquillare this weekend. Anquillare dislocated his shoulder in action last weekend. 
"Psychologically, I think the team is prepared for the games," notes Smith. "We've had one of our best weeks of practice in the fall season and I certainly hope that's an indica­tion that we're ready to play." 
champion Los Angeles Lakers in the Pacific Division. Instead, Phoenix leads the league in turnovers and points allowed. 
"To say that we're playing poorly is an understatement," Macleod said. "We're not playing much defense. We get ahead and then we're not able to sustain it because we start kicking the ball around or show poor judgment in our shot selection." 
Mat:Leod said he has thought about junking the new offense and going back to calling set plays and slowing down the tempo, "but I don't want to do it. The conversion to this style of ball will be better for us in the end. Too many teams in the last couple of years have been whip­ping us down the floor. This is the way we want to play in the future. I'm convinced this is the way to go." 
"I've never· been through anyth• 
ing like this and I'm tired of it," said Suns guard Walter Davis. "It's frustrating to me because nothing like this has ever happened to me ­not in grade school, not in high school, not in college, not in the pros. Not until now. I don't want to get used to losing. Teams can kind of get in the habit oflosing. Confidence comes from winning." 
"You have no confidence when you're 0-9," said veteran forward Al­van Adams. "You only get tighter and more tentative. That's a natural by-product of losing. It's not easy to swallow." 
All-Star forward Larry Nance, who is playing his way into shape after missing the entire preseasOn in a contract dispute, said, "We're making little mistakes and putting our heads down because we're not winning. A lot of people are feeling a lot of pressure. We want to win so bad." 
~·4r~~.~********************~~~~ 
LET US SHOW YOU ~
-
-
THE "FUN WAY" TO""" A BEAUTIFUL ­
-.. 
HEALTHY TAN! 
Fun Tan, Inc. Tanning Salon
.. 
SL Ad. 23 • ~c:omn­
.. 
South hnd, IN • 2111212·7853
.. 
:il 
Best Student Pricing 
3 Bed Visits •••••• il 
•.. 
3 Booth VIsits •••. $15.00 7 Bed VIsits ••••• $26.00
..• 
7 Boo h VIsits... $16.00
..... 
.. 
7 Bed VIs • • • • $40.00 
•.. 
7 Booth visits•• 

ll~!::E:xt:r:a:L:o:~:P:r:i:ce;s;N;:o;w:;::~~~:J 

d'La..tt" f(f 
~~ 

~ wdlt, (.L!Jo;r.gI 

N.D. Hockey 

vs. 


St. Thomas 
FAI...-'SAT.,tJey.IS+I'




,:,o 


"""""'' IIIII ADMIIIfD r­
·~~~: 
PuCKS, J=bs.r€R.S1 -r OTHER 
PoweRPLAV &.veAWAVS ~
*~ :t:o Jiuftlu• ~~~ 

Tanit~~ht 
Special 
SImports Band-Minar Canditian 
For Club Rentals... 
call Bryan Dedrick 


• 
i . ! 
f 
! 
t 
~ 
I 
I I 
I 
! \ ! • ! 
i I 
I \ 
STARTING TIME 6:00p.m. 
7:00 
7:30 8:00 
8:30 9:00 
9:30 
10:00 11:00 
MIDNIGHT 
ACTIVITY 
RECREATIONAL SWIMMING WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (CHALLENGE) 
NERF FOOTBALL (CHALLENGE) SPECIAL OLYMPICS BASKETBALL '(EXHIBITION) 
INDOOR SOCCER (TOURNAMENT) 
MEN'S BASKETBALL (CHALLENGE) RACQUETBALL (CHALLENGE) 
SPECIAL OLYMPICS SWIMMING (EXHIBITION) 
WHIFFLE BALL (CHALLENGE) SQUASH (CHALLENGE) TABLE TENNIS (CHALLENGE) 
INNER TUBE WATER BASKETBAll (CHALLENGE) 
AEROBICS 
INNER TUBE WATER POLO (CHALLENGE) VOLLEYBALL (TOURNAMENTAND CHALLENGE) BROOMBAU (TOURNAMENT) OPEN SKATING 
AEROBICS 
LOCATION 
ROLF'S AQUATIC • GYMl 
ARENA PIT 
GYMl GYM2 COURTS ROLF'S AQUATIC 
ARENA COURTS CONCOURSE 
ROLF'S AQUATIC 
PIT ROLF'S AQUATIC FIELDHOUSE ICE RINK 
ICE RINK PIT 
Special For 10 days only 
Buy all of your 
Tanning NOW 
... 
.....
.. 
...
t 
~ 
No expiration on tanning visits 
~ STOP IN TODAY AND SEE USI OR CALL US AT 219/272-7653 
~ Located west Of University Park on State Road 23 
~~~~********************~~~jt 





0~ 

FR IDRY RND SRTURDRY, Nov.15 & 16 7:00 9:15 11 :30 Ploce: Holl Of Engineering Price: $1·.so 
Thursday's Solution 

41 Estrade 49 Front 43 Facades 50 Costa­44 Xmas symbol 51 Easygalt 46 Reserved 52 Knowing 47 lnnsbruck's 54 Tub 
region 56 Amateur sports 48 Lamb product org. 
P!CESiilt--J'r.S • 


Senior Class presents


Theo
'(& Up;t. -gvi-JS OFI= 
ClJYd.o__,V.~ F~,r;~~y~ Nov. IS" SovTM '!),,_.aINdr H-•i-L­

t.i..OO 


Friday, November 1 5, 1985 -page 1 5 Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson
Bloom County 
f'Of?:NOY. 
PIP ',f}(J H€1il?. NO. 1H€~3r~ WHIIT! 
·-'M"tflrY<!?f!Pr TH/5 F£1/Tl!RE w ~XI't.l1tN me Vflf?tO(JS oe.;urs WHICH 5eVUf/L R£Af?€RS HAl,€ NOlle&/? ae'.lf;f?LY 06SCfJf?ING 11-1£ 5</l?&fC!/L.i.Y Al'Tei?EP N05e OF ONe OF THe PI?INC!Pilt.. CHIV?fiCT€RS ...  U ll.~. 3eN~ Hf/5 /Je"Tll{M/IIW 1HI1T THe GRIIPH!C f1@71CTION Of RIIPICflt. COSMeTIC BOPY S(Jf?~RY, t.ll<€ ~C&N€ ROCK MVSfC, Cf/N POUt/TE Tilt MINf75 Of Y()(JN(:; f'COP/,.€ AM' l611f110 Wfi?eSPI?MP ~fJONISM IWC' seCtMIR. HUtt11W!5M. 7li(JS, !He set-f-CeN50f(SH/f. ((.£ M:JW ReTfiRN 70 1"0 1H€ Hllt?f?!{}(JS COMIC At.K6t?f1Y IN PR0&!?!55.••  




Kevin Walsh 

"Well, we just took the wrong exit. I know this breed, Morrison-you have to watch them every minute or wham, they'll turn on you." 

~ampus 
FRIDAY, NOV. 15 
•9:00 
A.M. · 5:00 P.M. • Sign-ups for Senior reflection groups, Center for Social Concerns 

•12:20 
P.M. · Gathering, Steps ofAdministra· tion Building, Sponsored by Anti-Apartheid Network 

•
2:00 P.M. · 6:00 P.M. · Brazll Colloquium, "Research Agenda for Post-Authoritarian Brazil", Room 131 Decio Jiall, Sponsored by Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies 

•3:30 
P.M.~ Lecture, "Foreign Belie", David Kaplan, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Exxon Lecture Series, College ofArts and Letters, and Department of Philosophy 

•3:30 
P.M. · 3:00 A.M. · Chicago Trip, Bus leaves from Main Circle. Sponsored by Junior Class, $10.00 

•6:30 
P.M. · Movie Night, Pasquerilla West T.\'. Lounge, Sponsored by ICHTHUS, S1.00 

•7:00 
P.M.· Eygpdan Fllm Series, "I Want A Solution", O'Shaughnessy Satellite Room, Sponsored by Department of Anthropology Mediterranean/Middle East Concentration 

• 
7:00, 9:00 and 11:00 P.M. · Movie, "The Ter­minator", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Senior Class, 11.50 

•7:30 
P.M.-Ice Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Saint Thomas, ACC Ice Arena 

•7:30 
P.M. and 9:30P.M.· Friday Night Fllm Series, "Confidentially Yours", Annenberg Auditorium 

•8:00 
P.M.. Physics Lecture, ''To The Heart OfMatter From Cyclotron To Supercolliders" Dr. J.D. Jackson, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, Library Auditorium 

•9:00 
P.M. · Dance, D.Y.B.O. 2 with the Bon­ton Society, South Dining Hall, Sponsored by the Student Activities Board, Sl.OO 

•10:00 
P.M.. Costume Dance, The Beaux Arts Ball, Theme: Fashion Victims, Featuring the Nicholas Tremulus Band, Architecture Building, 14.00 presale, 15.00 at the door 


SATURDAY, NOV. 16 

•9:00 
A.M. · 12:00 P.M. ·Brazil Colloquium, "Research Agenda For Post-Authoritarian Brazil", Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies 

•3:30 
P.M.· Foo~ Notre Dame vs. Penn. State at University Park 

•7:00, 
9:00 and 11:00 P.M.· Movie, "The Ter· minator", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Senior Class, S1.50 

•8:00 
P.M. · Ballet, Ballet Hispanico of New York, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored by John Duggan Performing Arts Series, S6. 50, 


S5.50 and S4.50 -11.00 off for students 
•8:00 
P.M.. Dance theater, Joseph Holmes Dance Theater of Chicago, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Around the Corner and Black Cultural Arts Commission, 18.00 

•8:00 
P.M.. Concert,John Mellencamp, ACC 

SUNDAY, NOV.17 


•l
:00 P.M. · 4:00 P.M. · Opeolng Art Exhibi· 

•4:00 
P.M.· Concert, Guest Baritone Recital, Udo Reinemann, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Department ofMusic University Artists Series 

•6:30 
P.M.· Meeting, CILA, Center for Social Concerns 

•7:30 
P.M. · Movie and speaker, "South Africa Belongs to Us", Mutombo Mpanya, Ph.D. , Kellogg Fellow, Stapelton Lounge, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Govern­ment and Peacemakers 


tions,  Moira  Marti  Geoffrian  Drawings,  
Bronzes  and  Installations,  O'Shaughnessy  
Gallery East  


Zeto 
ACROSS 1 Chess piece 5 Meat mold 
10 Breadwinner 14 Arabian port 15 Sacred: pref. 16 Quartet minus 
one 17 Baseball Rose 18 HUDword 19 Lend support 20 One: Fr. 21 Large cabinet 23 Front rooms 25 Creek 26 Sound's 
companion 27 Land along 
a road 32 Capacious 34 Adhered 35 Admirer 36 Woodwind 37 Pass off as 
genuine '38 Can. prov. 39 Pro and­40 Edge 41 Challenges 42 In the audi· 
ence 44 -·nine-tails 45 Sought office 46 Cuban province 49 Combat areas 53 "-apity..." 54 Fruitless 55 Architectural 
order 56 Tunes 57 CPA word: abbr. 58 Notable period 59 Celebes ox 60 Collations 61 Actress Taylor 62 -duckling 
DOWN 1 Fly ball 2 Action place 3 Brando film 
setting 4 Vane reading 5 In -(hastily) 6 Fathers 7 Small arma· 
dillo 

8 Mesopotamia today: var. 9 Meet face to face 10 WWII naval craft 11 Galway Bay 
islands 12 Early Scot 13 Perfect 21 Caliber 22 Wagnerian 
cycle 24 Kind of sled 27 Hard quartz 28 Toast relative 29 Insulting 30 Storm 31 Remnants 32 Nutty 33 -Ben Adhem 34 Money 37 Pioneer's 
place 38 Archibald of basketball 40 Breakfast food 


-, 

lrlsb center Tim Kempton, shown here in action team's annual charity scrimmage. For details on against tbe Rice Owls, wtll lead tbe Notre Dame tbe scrimmage, see Phil Wolfs story below. men's team onto tbe court Sunday nigbt in bts 


Basketball teams hold scrimmage 
ByPHRWOLF 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame men's and women's basketball fans will have their first chance to see the Irish in action this weekend, as both teams will hold their annual intrasquad games Sun­day in the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The women's team will play at 6:30p.m., and the men's squad will follow at approximately 7:30 p.m. 
Tickets, which cost S2 for adults and S 1 for students, are available at the ACC Ticket Office at Gate 1 0. The games are sponsored by the Marathon Oil Company to benefit Logan Center and the Neighbor­hood Study Help Program in South Bend. 
Team photographs will be dis· tributed free of charge, and both teams will be available for autographs. The men will sign autographs before they take the floor, and the women will be available after their game. 
Tentative starting lineups for the men's game include Tim Kempton, Ken Barlow, Donald Royal, Scott Hicks and David Rivers on one team; and Gary Voce, Jim Dolan, Matt Beeuwsaert, Joseph Price and Mic­hael Smith on the other. 
Women's coach Mary DiStanislao said she has not decided on starting lineups for her squad's game. 
"What happens in an intrasquad scrimmage like this is we'll be changing shirts a lot from blue to 
gold," DiStanislao said. "I'll be looking at different lineups for dif­ferent situations." 
The women probably will play two 10-minute halves with regular game rules, DiStanisalo said. The men will play at least one halfofstop time, Head Coach Digger Phelps said, with a second period of I 5 minutes running time. 
"(In the) second half it depends how I feel," Phelps said. ''I'm flexible." 
The men's team will play host to the Smelt Olimpija club from Yugos­lavia on Nov. 20 and open its regular season at home against St. Joseph's (Ind.) on Nov. 22. 
The women's team opens its season on Nov. 30 at Purdue. 

Friday, November 15·, 1985-page 16 

O.C. defeats Stanford for interhall soccer title 
By TERRY LYNCH as could be expected even under Sports Writer ideal conditions, and that made all the difference in the game. 
They were undefeated in regular­The action started out at a fast season play. pace as both sides threatened early They were undefeated in the on in the contest. Miscues by Crime playoffs. goalkeeper Dave Simon provided They were never scored upon as a the Studs with two comer kicks 
team. early in the first h~ but his footing Last night, they won it all. and the Crime defense turned away Off-Campus came out to play last the Studs empty· handed. 
night in the eighth round of the in­With their defense on track, the terhall soccer playoffs and crushed Crime offense didn't take long to Stanford, 4-o, clinching the interhall respond, Buddy Webster broke the title by eliminating the Studs and scorelesS tie midway through the capping off a brilliant season. second half with a 25-yarder from 
"These boys just played out of straight on, and that goal proved to their heads tonight," said O.C. Crime be all the Crime needed to claim the captain Mike Pecoraro after the title. game, and nothing could be more The intensity ofthe action picked true oflast night's action. up after Webster's goal, as once 
On a cold and wet Cartier field, it again Stanford threatened to score would have been easy to be a little while dominating play in the Crime less than inspired to chase a ball half of the field. But a disputed call around in shorts. The Crime, 
see INTERHALL, page 13

however, came out as aggressively' 
Irish meet St. Thomas ·in crucial home series 
By MARTY STRASEN and have lost only three lettermen Sports Writer from last season's 25· 7 team. Notre Dame suffered 10-3 and 7-6 losses to 
Under normal circumstances, a St. Thomas last year, and Smith ex­two-game series on home ice this pects to face an equally strong team early in the season would not be this weekend. labelled "crucial." But for the Notre "They're a fine skating team ­Dame hockey team, tonight's there's no doubt about that," Smith opener, the first ofa weekend pair of explains. "Hockey is the king sport games against St. Thomas, marks a in Minnesota and their local talent point in the season when the Irish gives them a well-balanced, quick­are going to have to bear down. skating team." 
Notre Dame head coach Lefty To counter the speed of the Smith realizes the importance of the Tommies, Smith would like to two home games, especially since dominate the corners with close his team has posted a 2-6 record in forechecking and tight defensive its first eight. play. He feels that the Irish can score 
"Every game from here on in is a goals of their own if they can keep big game," says Smith, who attended the St. Thomas players from break­and played for St. Thomas College. ing out oftheir own end quickly. "When you're 2-6, that makes it-even "We're hoping to improve in two more important for us to come out main areas -forechecking and and make a good showing this defensive coverage," explains Smith. weekend." "We've got to come out strong in 
The Irish will have their work cut those areas to win. Hopefully, the out for them, however, in attempt­seniors on the ~earn can rally, ing to come away from the series everyone together so we can put out with a pair of wins. The Tommies the effort required to win." have made appearances in the final Winning has not been a problem four of the Division II Champion­ships in each of the past two years, see TOMMIES, page 14 
... 



Will Irish come home to find celebration? 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -Remember the last time Notre Dame played a team ranked No. 1? Ofcourse, a 31-16 win over Pitt in 1982, you say. 
Remember what happened afterward? Sure, the Irish returned home to find 9/10 ofthe student body on Notre Dame Avenue awaiting their arrival in what amounted to one of the biggest impromptu celebrations Notre Dame has seen in quite some time. 
Will there be a similar scene tomorrow night on Notre Dame Avenue when the team arrives back sometime just after 1 0:00? That question can be answered only by the team itself as the Irish attempt to be giant-killers against top-ranked Penn State. 
The task will not be an easy one for Notre Dame, al­though a win certainly is within the realm ofpossibility for the red-hot Irish. The game will be an opportunity for Notre Dame to show everyone that it does belong in the Top Twenty. Beating the No. 1 team on television isn't likely to go unnoticed by pollsters the way wins over Sout­hern Cal, Navy and Mississippi went. 
Only the seniors will remember the last celebration ofa big football win. But by Sunday morning, maybe all classes will have one to remember. 
• 
One has to admire the way Gerry Faust has held up in light ofall the rumors going around about his job security. It seems like every day, some newspaper or television sta­tion reports that Faust will not be back next season as Irish head coach. 

Jeff Blumb 
Sports Editor 
Things have gotten to the point now where you don't knowwho to believe. Everyone's got their own Faust story. Stop and ask anyone around the Notre Dame campus -or the Slippery Rock State College campus for that matter ­and they probably could tell you at least one thing they've "heard" about the Notre Dame coaching situation. 
Yet, through all this, Faust remains pretty much the same upbeat guy who started the season full of optimism. He wears the same smile he wore in August, and he still pats people on their back and shakes their hand. 
"You'll never get me to react any way but a positive way," Faust says. "I'm the one whose job is at stake, but I'm not worried about it." 
The wear of it all on the man comes through ever so slightly, but never openly or conciously on his part. He's seen bad times before and dealt with those situations well. There really was no reason to think things would be any different this time around. 
No matter what happens, though, no one could ever doubt that Faust has given Notre Dame his heart and soul "I have to look at myself in the mirror," he says. "If you're giving it your best shot and believe in the place, then that's all you can do." 

Maybe the best indication of how strong Faust has been in the face of recent adversity and rumors is his sense of humor, which he has maintained quite well. "One of these days I'm going to start a rumor," he joked this week, "and it's going to be about a new 10-year contract." 
A new contract for Faust of any length remains only a rumor for now. There is one thing which everyone can be certain of, though, and that is that Gerry Faust will remain the same man he has always been · whether it be today, tomorrow, next week or next year. 
• 

Preseason expectations for the Irish men's basketball team are running high. Similarly, however, great things are expected from the women's team this season. 
In the first-ever North Star Conference preseason coaches' poll, Notre Dame was favored to successfully defend its conference ~rown. The Irish were tabbed as top dog iri the NSC by seven of the league's eight coaches · far and away outdistancing Dayton, the second-place selec­tion. 
Two Irish players also received recognition in preseason all-conference voting. Both Trena Keys and Sandy Botham were chosen for the first team All-NSC. Keys, who was the league's MVP last season, was also named as the con­ference's preseason MVP. · 
Meanwhile, freshman c~nter Heidi Bunek was selected as the league's top newcomer. Add Bunek to Keys and Bot­ham up front, and Coach Mary DiStanislo should have her­selfa helluva front line in the coming year. 


-~ 

rne Ul!server/Cbaitanya Panchal 
Members ofthe ND Boxing Club rush to finish their practice so they can get to the NVA "A/1-Nighter, "tonight at 6 p.m. 
'Freedom' shows costly outcome of protest in Northern Ireland 
KEVIN KENNEDY 
features writer 
N 
orthern Ireland's political tur­
bulence made its appearance on 
stage, as the play "The Freedom of 
the City," opened in Washington 
Hall's Lab Theatre last night. The 
play, written by Brian Friel, is a reac-
Theater 
The Freedom Of The City 
tion to the social problems of the Irish ghettos and the government's overreaction to a crowd ofprotes­tors. 
The play centers around three people who find themselves in the mayor's parlor of Derry City's Guildhall as they seek refuge from tear gas and rubber bullets. Upon realizing where they are, the three look about the place and indulge themselves in the mayor's liquor cabinet. 
Jack Blakey, Lauren Longua, and Michael Andrews, as, respectively, Skinner, Uly, and Michael, are excel­lent, as their portrayals demonstrate a subtlety, a sense ofthe quietly dramatic for the three main leads. 
The play is performed on a stage with seating on all sides; the natural­ness ofthis breaks through the audience's distance, and conse­quently, the audience somewhat believes itself to be in the actual Guildhall; these people could be them. 
A false illusion ofwhat is going on inside the Guildhall is shared by the media and British militia; only the 

audience knows the truth. This mirage is masterfully conveyed through the use ofa 1V camera and four televisions, which intermittently 
'Freedom Of The City' provides a powerful stimu­lus for the mind and heart. 
chronicle an on-scene reporter's reaction to the "takeover." The out­siders believe a group ofap­proximately 40 guerillas have sieged 
see PLAY, page 2 
DAVID FALISZEK 
features writer 

T 
his is it, for one time only: 
Friday is your chance to party 

all night long at the ACC as Non-
Varsity Athletics celebrates the 
opening ofthe RolfAquatic Center 
witt. its extravagant "all-nighter.". 
TQere will be sports, games, food, 

music and good times for everyone 
who participates in this event to 
help raise money for the St.Joseph 
County Special Olympics Organiza­
tion. Instead ofwasting away a 
Friday night wishing that Penn State 
were playing here Saturday, now 
you have the chance to join all your 
friends at the ACC and have a great 
time while supporting a charitable 
cause. 
This "sports party" will include tournaments in basketball, nerf football, soccer, volleyball, tennis and racquetball, among many other team activities. In addition, the new pool will be open for innertube water polo, water basketball and a game of Marco Polo. 
For those who aren't tournament­minded, there will also be recrea­tional swimming, basketball, tennis, ice-skating and whiffleball. You'll be able to play just about any sport you want, and there will also be aerobic sessions at 10:00 p.m., 12:00, 2:00 and 10:00 a.m. "(Some) students complain that they never get to use the ACC, and now we're giving them the whole thing for 1 7 hours," Assistant Director ofNV A Sally Derengoski said. Students should bring their own sports gear and bathing suits. Derengoski en­courages everyone to "come over and use the facilities ... use this brand new pool." 
For a break from all the physical activities, students can go to the upper concourse and view the exhibits featuring the International Special Olympics, which will be coming to South Bend in 1987; the entire Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community will play a large role in hosting the Olympics. There will be plenty offood at the concession stands and music for everyone's enjoyment. 
Derengoski also said that the party is a great opportunity for students to get out and do someth­ing different. 
And this event isn't just for Notre Dame students, as the party is being made pdssible through the comhined efforts of hoth 1\Jotre 
see NVA, page 2 

r------------------------------------­
Happenings-page 2 Friday, November 15, 1985 
Mix of soul, jazz and gospel bursts into exuberant dance 
Special to The Obeena 

ampus organizationsdo care
Cabout the student body's social life; theJoseph Holmes Dance Theatre appearance Saturday in Washington Hall is proof. · Tilis evening ofballet, African and jazz dance is being brought to Notre Dame through the combined efforts ofthe Student Activities Board, Cultural Arts Commission, Around the Corner Club and the Black Cultural Arts Center. 
Since its birth in 1975, theJoseph Holmes Dance Theatre has grown from seven dynamic but unpolished dancers to one ofChicago's most artistically creative, highly respected and sought-after com­panies, with a corps of 15 dancers. This multi-ethnic company has been a vehicle for developing and performing Holmes' choreography, which is grounded in Graham tech­nique, ballet, African and jazz dance. 
The 8 p.m. performance will feature jazz, religious and gospel dances, as well as the "Euretha Suite ofSongs," named for Euretha Franklin, and "Pursuit" by Randy Duncan. 
Holmes has been the company's artistic director since 1975. He was 

Play 
continuedfrom page 1 
the Guildhall, while all along Skinner, Uly, and Michael talk amongst them­selves, oblivious to what is going on outside. 
Michael is a young man who is a very active protestor. He has been on every march and at every rally in the hopes ofgetting more freedom for the lower class. He is astounded at the richness ofthe mayor's parlor, and thinks it ironic that they are in a building ofthe very people they are protesting. 
Uly is a mother who has spent most ofher life providing for her husband and their 11 children. Every time Michael's name is mentioned, she speaks up by saying that she also has a Michael, and then proceeds to mention the names ofthe other 1 0. Her beliefs for marching are very different than Michael's, perhaps more personal. 
Skinner is probably the most excit­ing character in the play. He is an prepared for this role through his training with the Dance Theatre of Harlem, the New Dance Group, and Alvin Ailey. From 1976 he has been assisted by Harriet Ross, current associate director. Ross trained at New York's School of Performing 
...the Theatre has grown ... to one of Chicago's most artistically creative ... and sought-after companies... 
Arts,Juilliard, and with such note­worthy instructors as Martha Graham, RobertJoffrey and An­thony Tudor. 
Significant events marking the growth of the company have in­cluded appearances on television and at the Illinois Governor's Arts Award ceremony; selection by National College ofEducation as the award-winning children's 
orphan who has spent most ofhis life as a rogue. It is Skinner's idea to take out the mayor's liquor and he even manages to get the reserved Michael to drink some. He fancies himself by dressing up in the mayor's clothes and dancing around to the radio. Of 
the three he is the most realistic about the effect that the protests will 
have on the government. 
John Kennedy plays a balladeer, who entertains the audience with some traditional songs as well as some ofhis own before and during the show. 
The story culminates in a con­frontation between the British militia and the innocent three. The ending is unexpected, but, eerily, actually forseen by Skinner. 
Overall, director Reg Bain's prod•ction is very well done; with all its elements in place, "The Freedom OfThe City" provides a powerful stimulus for the mind and heart. 
"The Freedom OfThe City" plays tonight, tomorrow night and on Nov. 21, 22, and 23. 
program in 1980 for the company's "Chance to Dance" project; and receiving a S206,000 grant from the CBS Foundation. On-going fun.ding and support have been received from the Illinois Arts Council, the Chicago Council on Fine Arts, the Allstate Foundation, Arthur Ander­son and Co., the Gannett Founda­tion and Wa,shington National Insurance Company. 
Currently, JHDT is sponsored on the Illinois Arts Council ARTSTOUR program, formerly the Great I..akes Arts Alliance touring program. They have received funding from the National Endowment for the Arts to support touring programs and for Joseph Holmes in the form ofa choreographer's fellowship aw_ard. 
The troupe also manages the Chance to Dance program among Chicago's high schools, in which the dancers perform and explain their training and methods. They then hold auditions and award dancing scholarships to the most gifted high school dancers. · 
Holmes spends one day a week at
•
Purdue University as Artist in 
Residence in addition to his com­pany responsibilities. In 1983 he 
was named to Who's Who In 


Chicago":r Jo~ph Holm~ Dance Theat" brings its high-envgy donee to 
America. 

WoshinRton Hall Saturday for one performance only. 

Skinner (Jack Blakey) peers into the eyes ofdeath upon his surrender in the climax of"The Freedom Of The City .. 
NVA 
continuedfrom page 1 
Dame and Saint Mary's. The shuttle buses will be adding an extra stop at the ACC for the convenience and security ofSaint Mary's students. 
The "all-nighter" kicks off at 6:00 
p.m. Friday and will continue until 
11:00 a.m. Saturday. While there will be no standard entrance fee charged, a donation is highly en­couraged. Students should enter the ACC through gate two. 
Ifyou're being forced to go_ to your hall's SYR or planned on at­tending some superficial dance, then why not go to the ACC after­pool or by listening to the music. wards? You might want to release It's the perfect way to avoid ending your pent-up frustrations from the the evening. There's just no way evening by participating in some you can lose with this event, and game, or you and your date can remember -the ACC doesn't have relax by taking a leisurely dip in the parietals. 
I I I. 

NOW SERVING ••• 

~SUNDAY BRUNCH 
10:30 a.m.-2:30 p.m. Adults s7.95 Children '4.95 
100 Center Reaervationa 159-9915 

-----A~--A----L----A---~----L----A--~ 


NIG TCLUB 
Come to Tivoli's South Bend's Party Headquarters Open 6 nights a week Drinking and Dancing 
g·:oo pm-? 
Located on U.S. 33 IV. at J'llorth Village Mall 77-1877 
FILET OF SOLE OSCAR 

$8.95 
121 S. Niles, South Bend Reservations Appreciated Phone (219) 234-9000 


Happenings-page 3 . Friday, November 15, 1985 ­

Boredom obligatory with 
'To Live and Die in L.A.' 
SHELLI CANFIELD 
fetltures writer 

It's been a long time since I've had such a blast picking popcorn kernels out ofmy teeth. 
What else was there to do? Watch the movie? Ten minutes into it I was lost. Maybe it's just not my kind offlick. After all, I'm the kind ofgirl who jumps up and cheers for touchdowns -when the other team makes them. I didn't learn to tie my shoes until the fifth grade, and I didn't know how to check a book out ofthe library until a couple of weeks ago. (I am a senior.) No, I am not borderline schizo-I am just terrifically, phenomenally impatient. Ifyou are too, I don't recommend "To Live and Die in L.A." 

The whole thing has to do with a counter­feit money operation in L.A., which the Secret Service cannot seem to bust. From there, it's all good guys vs. bad guys. You want details? There aren't any worth repeating. It's just one chase after another. Which way to the pop­corn? 
I do remember a car-chase scene -it says in the Cnnstitution that a car-chase must be shown in every cop flick that is ever made in America. The car plunges down a concrete ravine, screeches over medians, swerves all over the road, tears off down a major multi­lane one-way highway full ofafternoon traffic, causes semis to jack-knife all over the place, runs into other cars at unreal speeds, gives 
Movies 


•The Student Activities Board hosts the movie "The Tenninator," tonight and tomorrow night in the En­
gineering Auditorium. In the Year of 
Darkness, 2029, the rulers of this planet devised the ultimate plan. They would reshape the future by changing the past. The plan required someone who felt no pity, pain, or fear: someone unstoppable ... The Terminator. Arnold Schwarzenegger stars as a devastating one-man army who leaves a trail ofdeath and destruction behind him as he battles anyone who gets in his way -including the hardened mer­cenary, played by Michael Biehn, sent to destroy him. High-speed car chases, ferocious gun battles and special effects keep the film moving at a fast pace. Tick­ets for the 7, 9, and I I p.m. shows are 
$1.50. 
•"ConfidentiallyYours," director Francois Trutfaut's last film, will be shown at the Annenberg Auditorium tonight. In this tribute to the screwball comedies of the I930s and the black mysteries ofthe 1940s, Fanny Adent stars as a secretary who sets out to clear her boss when he is accused ofmurdering his adulterous wife. Tickets for the 7:30 and 9:30 shows are S3. 



" 
i-.«t;;_~J-4&':·-~ 
everyone whiplashes and heart-attacks (in the theater. I mean) and repeatedly gets shot at. 
Everyone gets chased and mowed down, several times someone is shot in the tace (and we are spared no details), the bad guy is ignited like Marvin the Torch in a flaming hay­barn (which is what they say happens when you yell "theater" in a crowded fire), and there were enough pretty-words to satisfy any inner-city group of kindergarten children ­which is just the place to go to get all the same kind ofentertainment for free. 
Never mind that it's not realistic or fabulously acted -since when do such trivialties matter in most movies, anyways? There's a lot of action, and all the women are exploited as Lolita Cheesecakes just to keep things drooling ... uh, moving. If they aren't working in topless bars, they're dancing in wierdo nightclubs and getting their kicks 'rub­bing each others' feet backstage. Yuck. 
Our bad guy, that meanie, threatens everyone, beats up everyone, and likes to set fire to things. His little hobby is igniting paint­ings in art galleries. (My dream man, per­sonally, will take a fork to his parents and feed his dog lighter fluid.) Meanie-weenie's girlfriend is a fiend, too. She even has red hair, I guess to remind him ofhis passion for setting fire to thin~s. 
Well, the girlfriend gets his sports car in the end, while he just gets torched and shot to death while he's burning-by a cop we dismiss as a wimp all along. The cop's buddy -the heroic bridge-monkey -gets blown away, eventually, so Wimpy suddenlygets bossy and pushes around the little tootsie that served as an informant and bed buddy to our main (dead) hero. And that is the end. Yay! 






The Scoop 
Art 

•
An exhibition ofwork by Moira Marti Geoffrion will open Sunday with a recep­tion at the Snite Museum ofArt. Geoffrion, who currently teaches sculpture and is the acting assistant chairperson ofthe art, art history and design department at Notre Dame, creates organic forms derived from tree branch structures, combining sculpture, drawing and collage elements. The exhibit, which opens at 2 p.m., features a room installation, drawings and l 7 polychrome bronze sculptures. 

•"Untided," 
a slide show and lecture, will be given by Harold Zisla on his own work on Sunday in the Activities Room of the South Bend Art Center. The presenta­tion, which begins at 2 p.m., is open to the public. 


•The 1985 100-Mlle Radius Graduate and Undergraduate StudentArt Ex­hibition opens today in the Moreau and Uttle Theater Galleries at Saint Mary's. Art works from all media are accepted, and each artist may enter up to three pieces. The opening reception and awards presentation will occur tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. Gallery hours are 9:30 a.m. to 12 p.m., 1 to 3 p.m. Monday thru Friday and I to 3p.m. Sunday. 
Mass 

The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: FatherJames Flanigan at 5 p.m. 
(Saturday night vigil). Father Michael Heppen at 9 a.m. Father Peter Rocca at 10:30 a.m. Father Peter Rocca at 12:15 p.m. 


Music 
•Sunshine 
Promotions presentsjohn Cougar Mellencampat the ACC tomor­row at 8 p.m. Tickets are $14.50. 

•The 
Notre Dame department ofmusic will present Udo Relnemann on Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Ann~nberg Auditorium as part ofthe University Artists Series. Ac­companied by pianist David Selig, Reinemann, one of the most distinguished lieder singers ofhis generation, will perform Franz Schubert's song cycle "Die Winterreise." The concert is free and open to the public. 




Theater 

•This weekend the Holiday Star Theater in Merrillville hosts an evening with Ga11agber. Tickets for the Friday and Saturday night shows at 8 p.m. and the Sunday night show at 7:30p.m. are 114 Qct 



I j 
j 


-

Dance 

•The 
SAD presents Dance Your Buns Oft'Number 2 tonight at South Dining Hall. Featuring both a DJ and the band Booton Society, three ofwhose members were previously employed as professional models, the evening begins at 9 p.m. Admittance is JI. 

•The 
Saint Mary's performing arts series continues with a performance by the Ballet Hispanico ofNewYork City tomorrow night in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Presented with thesupport ofthe Great Lakes Arts Alliance, this company of 12 dancers offers an image of the contemporary Spanish-speaking world, rooted in the traditions ofLatin America, the Caribbean and Spain. The 15-year-old company was originally formed to create better understanding between Hispanics and non-Hispanics. Tina Ramirez, founder and artistic direc­


• 

tor ofBallet Hispanico, has received wide recognition for her teaching and choreog­raphy. Balcony seats are still available for J4.50, and students receive a $1 discount. 
Happenings-page 4 Friday, November 15, 1985 

Above: A patron enjoys the bartender's conversational skills; Left:Cap-N-Cork's THObserver/St•ve Blalla decor embodies typical neighborhood-bar atmosphere . 
Chinese, Vietnamese &American Food 

~~~z,+sr::~ Oriental Express 
:~ ,J//!.~~~,~~r.~:~,..'i .carry out 
· ·. ,:::··~ · D•n•ng Room 
·: 272-6702 e' ~e 
··, :· 6329 University Commons ~\0"0 Just West ofUniversity Park Mall ~"' on State Road23, Next to Kroger 
Mon. & Weds. 1 07.off wilh dining room coupon only 



Undistinctive Cap-N-Cork suffices as local beer joint 
JOHN AFFLECK 
features writer 
A 
couple of my friends had been after me 
to check out the Cap-N-Cork Lounge for a 
long time. They said it was a nice place to 
hang out and have a couple ofbeers. 
This turned out to be true. I had a good 
time hanging out at the Cap-N-Cork, playing 
darts and quaffing a couple ofbeers. But I 
have a good time hanging out and drinking 

beers almost anywhere, and the Cork was not an especially fun place to be hanging. Though it does have a few special attrac­tions, the Cork is basically an average bar. 
One of the special attractions is the draft beer. Every day the Cork features 10 ounce drafts, Budweiser or Bud Lite, for 50 cents.. That's right. Every day. 
At the back ofthe bar, there is a take-out counter selling assorted hard liquors and beer. Prices aren't too expensive for take-out, so it's worth keeping in mind ifone's room or house desperately needo; beer after King's Cellar Uquors closes. 
The Cork also serves lunch. Since I was ' there during the evening I can't comment on the quality ofthe food, but again the prices 
for hamburgers, pork tenderloin and shrimp baskets were right, so it might be worth a try. 
Aside from these features however, the Cork could be the corner bar anywhere in the United States. Though clean, the decor is totally without distinction. It's the usual assortment ofancient beer signs, candlelit booths with red and white checkered table cloths and electric dart games. 
A large room with tables offthe main barroom, presumably set up for lunches, contains the bar's artistic masterpieces: two large, tacky paintings ofthe Arc de Triumph and the Cathedral ofNotre Dame in Paris. There is also a separate area for a pool table near the take-out counter. 
The clientele seems to be a set ofregular patrons. They are a fairly mellow group of people, working folks who seem to prefer a couple ofbeers and a little social life to television in the evening. 
A juke box provides music for the bar. It has a pretty good selection ofrock and dance tunes, though there isn't any place to dance. In the same room as the tacky paintings, there is a large-screen TV, which was not in use at the time I visited the bar. 
Generally, the Cap-N-Cork is not a bad place. It simply doesn't have anything about it, except cheap beer, which makes it an especially good place, either. I would recom· mend the Cork, at 441 E. LaSalle Ave., to off-campus students who live in the area, but for those on campus it really isn't worth a special trip down Route 31. 


Bob Garner "The illusionist ' 
___......:. ...-.--....-............. -.•....,..... __ ..____
--~ --~· 
Will appear
to·all Windham Hill(ansi 

at the Dining Halls 
between 11:OOam and 1:OOpm 



UUtliUUtltUJtt " 
Nav•mb•r 2!1rd 
Wa•hi111Jtan Hall atB:DDpm 
Tickets;7.00/$4.00 IDith student I.D. 
-----~~--··----.. ... . '
Sold at J'llightwlnds, Record Connection ~-....--..-·---·..--..--~ 
----·~,---__......,...)"' --I
and Office ofStudent Activities. 
; l J~ ':; --2:1 
t 

Fr'iday. Nav•mber 22nd 
.Ev•niftiJ Pr•fDrmanc:• inWashinrJtan Hall at B:DDpm 
s 1.fJfl• lth ND/SMC ID Tickets at Offici' ,.,,~ udent Activtles 
.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--.. 
'I.be Ga~~~e · . . . '. . . : -. . . . . 11-e~Wctui~ :_ · . ·.·, ·: .·· : . ·;'. · . · ' ·....; . . ·· ··. ·. . ,· 

. . 
Irish vs. Penn State 
Time Saturday, November 16, 1985 3:30p.m. EST ·---------­
Series Notre Dame 5, Penn State 3 ·-----------------­
Last November 17, 1984 Notre Dame 44, Penn State 7 
Meeting 
Rankings Notre Dame unranked (AP) Penn State 1st 
' •• .. " ,1) 
Notre Dame (5-3) 
Sept.14 • (L) Mich.7 20-12 Sept. 21-(W) Mich. St., 27-10 Sept. 28 • (L) Purdue, 35-17 Oct. 5-(L) Air Force, 21-15 · Oct.19 • (W) Army, 24-10 Oct. 26-(W) USC, 37-3 Nov. 2 • (W) Navy, 41-17 Nov. 9 • (W) Miss., 37-14 Nov. 16-at Penn State 

Nov. 23 ·LOUISIANA ST. Tickets Game is sold out Nov. 30 -at Miami 

The Observer 
Friday, November 15, 1985 


Notre Dame takes its shot at No.1 for 19th time 
Will Penn State become another victim of Irish? 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 

Sports Writer 
1 9 36 the first Associated Press college

I n 
football poll came out, and since that time Notre Dame has played 18 top-ranked teams, acquiring a 5-12-1 record in those games. From 1964 to the present, however, the Irish have gone a very respectable 4-6 against the No.1 team. 

Tomorrow Notre Dame faces unbeaten and No. 1-ranked Penn State. Will the Nittany IJons make Notre Dame their 1Oth victim, or will the Irish pull offthe upset and create anot­her chapter in the book of memorable Notre Dame victories? 
Irish coach Gerry Faust is 1-0 in games against top-ranked teams, the win coming by a 31-16 ceunt at Pittsburgh in 1982. The Irish entered the game with a 5-1-1 record, but had been struggling with a recent loss and tie to Arizona and Oregon, respectively. On the other hand, Dan Marino had led Pitt to a 7-0 record and the Panthers were expected to use their ex­plosive offense to handily defeat the Irish. 
A Larry Moriarty touchdown and Mike Johnston field goal gave the Irish a 10-6 lead at the half. Pitt stormed back to take a 13-1 0 lead, but after that the day belonged to the Irish. 
Blair Kiel hit Joe Howard for a 54-yard touch­down pass and the lead on the famous "flea flicker" play, while Allen Pinkett later broke three tackles on a 76-yard run to give Notre Dame an insurmountable 24-16lead Pinkett scored an insurance touchdown that wasn't even needed, as the Irish defense, led by Mark Zavagnin's 16 tackles, bent but refused to break. 
Perhaps one of the biggest upsets oin Notre day. The Irish took advantage of two second not far behind in the polls. Notre Dame Alabama grabbed a 17-14 lead, but the Irish 
Dame hismry, though, came in the 1978 Cot­quarter turnovers to set up Terry Eurick survived a late scare to winby a thrilling 24-23 quickly pulled ahead on the strength of a ton Bowl, when the Irish thrashed the top­touchdown runs, and went into the locker 
score, and captured the national champion­fumble recovery and Eric Penick 12-yard 
ranked and undefeated Texas Longhorns, room at the halfwith a 24-10 lead. MVP Vagas ship based on its 1 1-0 record. touchdown run. Alabama quarterback Ric­38·1 0. The Irish vaulted to the top ofthe polls Ferguson added two second half touchdowns hard Todd caught a pass for a 23-21 lead, but because of the victory, and ended their na­to go with his second quarter score to ice the the Crimson Tide missed the crucial extra tional championship season at 1 1-1, the only victory. 
The Irish drew first blood as quarterback Tom point.blemish being an early loss to Mississippi. 
Clements passed his way down the field to set 
Every year there seems to be another "Game up a Wayne Bullock touchdown run. Alabama The excitement, already at a high pitch, rose Texas' Heisman Trophy winner Earl Campbell ofthe Century," but the 1973 Sugar Bowl was used the running game to score in the second as the Irish methodically drove 79 yards to set did gain 116 yards on the day, but he failed to one that legitimately qualifies for that title. quarter, but AI Hunter quickly put the Jrish in up a Bob Thomas 19-yard field goal for the score as the tough Irish defense, led by Ross Alabama entered the game undefeated and 
front again at 14· 7 with a 93-yard kickoff Browner and Bob Golic, held him in check all No. 1, while the Irish also were unbeaten and return on the ensuing kick. see UPSETS, page 2-3 
.......... • ... ~"'"',•'1',••~.~ 
... 
Beaver Stadium ( 83,770) 
Penn State (9-0) 

Sept. 7. (W) Maryland, 20-18 Sept.14-(W) Temple, 27-25 Sept. 21· (W) East Car., 17-10 Sept. 28 -(W) Rutgers, 17-10 Oct. 12 -(W) Alabama, 19-17 

Oct.19-(W) Syracuse, 24-20 
TV and Radio 

Oct. 26 • (W) WestVa., 27-0 ABC Sports regional telecast
Nov. 2 -(W) BC, 16-12 Keith jackson and Frank Broyles Nov. 9 • (W) Cincin., 31-10 WSJV-TV(Ch. 28) 
Nov. 16-NOTRE DAME Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and Tom Pagna
Nov. 23 ·atPittsburgh 
WNDU-AM 1500 


Irisb Extn -page 2-3 



State College is perfect setting for ND-Penn St. 
Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 
H 
ello again, everybody! 
In a way, it is only fitting that tomorrow's game between Notre Dame and Penn State take place in State College, Pa. This small town located in the middle of Pennsylvania is far removed from the glamour ofPhiladelphia and the steel mills ofPittsburgh. It is an area filled with hard-working people, who till the land and manage to get by one day at a time. It is the perfect setting for these two teams. 
This game may wind up looking more like a S1.9R beauty contest than a classic matchup. These are two teams who come from blue­collar areas ofthe country, and they reflect it with their respective styles. Neither team will impress you with their play, but both teams have been winning games by using solid defense and making big plays. Now it's just a question ofwhich team can do it tomorrow. 
Penn State football has always reflected the tone ofthe State College area. Oh, sure, when the Nittany Lions won the national champion­ship in 1982, they had such glamour players as Todd Blackledge, Curt Warner and Kenny jackson and an offense that could be described as electric. That was an exception to the rule, however, as this year's team is more characteristic of the school's football tradi­tion. 
The Nittany Lions are almost boring. The uniforms are straight out of a Goodwill box, and Joe Paterno looks like a displaced accountant, peering through the bottom of those two Coke bottles he calls glasses. A quarterback who has completed only 45 percent of his passes and a tailback who averages about 84 yards per game are the stars ofan offense which is as flamboyant as stucco. The defense isn't much different. or Linebacker u. has produced some great ones in the past likejack Ham and Greg Buttle-guys who had names that sounded like linebackers. Now its leading tackler is Rogers Alexander. Hardly something that strikes fear into your heart. 
Still, Penn State is undefeated and No. 1 and that's all that matters. The Nittany Lions have come from behind in six of their nine wins this season. The combined margin of victory for seven of their nine wins is 28 points. Like the area around the University, there's not· bing flashy about Penn State. It just gets the job done with what it has and makes it from game to game. 
The biggest reason behind the Nittany lions success, however, is that they have people who know how to win. Paterno has won 85
, 

percent of his home games in 20 years at Beaver Stadium. Fur­thermore, PSU quarterback john Shaffer has not lost 2 game that he has started since seventh grade. Ifit's a close game, Paterno and Co. usually find a way to beat you. 
On the other hand, Notre Dame hasn't been winning close games, but they have been winning · which is enough to appease the Irish faithful for a little while. Once again, it's a situation where Notre Dame isn't flashy or unpredictable. Instead, the Irish are like the South Bend community -a blue-collar group of guys who punch in, do their job and punch out. 
Forget the motion offense and the elaborate schemes that Gerry Faust brought to South Bend five years ago. The thing that has worked best for the Irish is Allen Pinkett left, Allen Pinkett right and an occasional pass by whoever is playing quarterback on that par­ticular series ofdowns. Until somebody shows they can stop it, Faust will continue to use it. 
On the other side of the line of scrimmage, the defe~e has come together nicely as a unit. There are no stars on the Irish defense, no players who really seem to dominate individually. However, as a group, the Irish have proven to be effective, giving up only 44 points in the last four games. They may bend as much as a limbo dancer, but they haven't llroken yet. 
The one disadvantage Notre Dame has is nobody knows if the Irish can win when the game is close in the final minutes. The Irish have played two games which went down to the final minutes (Michigan and Air Force) and they have lost both. Nobody expects tomorrow's game to be a blowout either way, and the Irish will have to respond with some good play in critical situations in order to win. 
Notre Dame is used to having to answer questions, though. Everybody wondered if Gerry Faust would last the year, and the answer is "yes." When the team was 1-3, everybody wondered if they could come back, and the answer was "yes." Now everybody wonders ifNotre Dame can beat Penn State. The answer will come tomorrow. 
Pkk of the Week. . . Until that time, however, there's Notre Dame hockey to attend. The Irish currently stand at 2-6 for the season, but they will be looking to raise their record tonight when they face St. Thomas (Minn.) at the ACC. Face-off is 7:30p.m. 

Upsets 
continuedfrom page I 
24-23 lead with only four minutes left. The game wasn't close to over, as Alabama pinned Notre Dame on its one­yard line with three minutes still to play. Clements ended the Tide's hopes for an Irish turnover as he hit Robin Weber at the 38-yard line to get the team out of danger and secure the vic­tory. 
Revenge was on the mind of the Notre Dame football team going into the 1971 Cotton Bowl against Texas, as the Lon­ghorns had defeated the Irish 21-1 7 in 

Dan Devine 
the 1970 Cotton Bowl. If that wasn't enough to prepare the Irish, the fact that Texas was undefeated, top-ranked and the owner of a 30-game unbeaten string certainly was. 
Texas took a quick 3-0 lead, but the Irish jumped in front as quarterbackjoe Theismann guided the team 80 yards and tossed a 26-yard scoring pass to end Tom Gatewood. The Irish recovered the Texas fumble on the following kick­offand Theismann soon ran it in the end zone for a 14-3 lead. Theismann scored his third touchdown on a 15-yard run to give Notre Dame a 21-3lead. 
Texas got a later touchdown while the Irish added a field goal to complete the 


( 
] 

5 
] 
~ 

I 
) 
1 
r 
1 
( 
~ 
li 
li 
a t 
I t 
1 
~ 
j 
I 
~ 
r 
( 
f 
Pat'Ballage stacks up an Army ballcamerearlter tbts season. ( 
scoring. all of which came in the first half. The Irish defense played superbly in causing nine Texas fumbles to hold off any Longhorn threats, and allow the Irish to end the season 10-1 and ranked 
No.2. 

In several. of the games in which the Irish defeated the No. 1_ ranked team, the victory moved the Irish to the top of the polls. However, in other years the Irish have lost to the top-ranked team and that opponent has gone on to claim the national championship. 
Herschel Walker led the undefeated Georgia Bulldogs to a 1 7-10 victory and the national title in the 1981 Sugar Bowl. Walker gained 150 yards and scored two touchdowns, while Bulldog defensive back Scott Woerner made two interceptions and several key plays as the Georgia defense constantly stopped the mistake-prone Irish. 
Many Irish fans remember the 1974 Notre Dame-USC game in which Trojan running back Anthony Davis returned the second halfkickofffor a touchdown to key a Southern Cal come-from­behind victory. What many Irish obser­vers don't recall so much is the 1972 game in which Davis scored six touch­downs, including two long kickoff returns, to give the Trojans a 45-23 vic­tory. That win allowed USC to finish the season undefeated, and with their later Rose Bowl victory claim the national title. 
Notre Dame, after a 45-year absence, came back to the bowl scene in the 1970 Cotton Bowl against the unbeaten and top-ranked Texas Longhorns. joe Theismann broke several offensive records in the game, but a Texas inter­ception in the final seconds ended an Irish drive and preserved the Z.,1-1 7 Longhorn lead. That lead stood, as Texas took its 20th straight victory and the national title. 
USC entered its game against the Irish in 1967 not having won at Notre Dame Stadium since 1939. 'The Trojans finally were victorious because they had a run­ning back named O.J. Simpson, who gained 150 yards and keyed USC to a 24-7 win. Southern Cal went on to win the rest of its games and claim the na­tional championship. 
Notre Dame came into its 1965 match 
with Michigan State as the highest 
scoring team in the nation, averaging 
255 yards a game on the ground. The 
huge . Spartan line so thoroughly 
dominated play that the Irish had -12 

yards rushing. 24 yards passing and only 
three first downs. MSU won 12-3 for its 1Oth straight victory, and then went on to win the Rose Bowl and claim the No. 


Friday, November 15, 1985 
-

On the job training 

Two years experience makes difference for Ballage 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sporu Editor 
I 
magine what it would be like to have 59,075 
people looking -no, actually more like 
glaring· down upon you. You stand alone, sul· 
len, disappointed, your head down, while 15 
yards downfield a celebration takes place. 
You have just been burned by the opposing receiver for a touchdown. 
You feel like you have let your team and coaches down. 
But worse, all those eyes. 
For Notre Dame strong safety Pat Ballage, that scene was an all too common one two years ago. Thrown into a startingcornerback role as a sophomore, Ballage had little experience as a defensive back, having played primarily at tailback in high school. 
Faced with the challenge ofsuch passingcom· binations as Bernie Kosar to Eddie Brown and Todd Blackledge to Kenny Jackson, Ballage got his lesson in pass defense the hard way. And did the criticism ever flow from Notre Dame fans wondering who this guy that kept getting burned was. 
"You're upset, you're down, but you've gotto realize that everyone is going to make a mistake," Ballage recalls. "It's so easy to get down on yourself and lose all of your con­fidence, but that's not the kind ofperson I am. 
"I really didn't pay too much attention to all the criticism. I knew that I was young and that I would get better. A lot of people were criticizing me, but I knew I had the ability to play. 
a­ 1 spot in the polls.  
Notre Dame, with its three losses, can't  
h  use  the  Penn  State  game  as  a  
st  springboard to the national title like it  
lg  has done previously against top-ranked  
le  teams.  The  game  is very  imponant,  
ly  however, as an Irish victory would give  
2  them a legitimate shot at a New Year's  
ly  Day bowl game, while the Uons need a  
ts  win to to stay undefeated and continue  
n  on their path to a national champion­ 
ship.  

..·;'·"'/'t"*-~~;~~ .··.\ 
~-·V;~~.., ~~· "if ' 
~"t~ \~~,i •... ' 

"Ole ot.nvcrll'lk Photo )Ire Dame defense stop Earl Campbell lowI, as tbe lrlsb upset tbe top-ranked om No. 5 to No. 1 tn the polls. 
"Actually, it was like I learned to play defensive back as a sophomore for a major col­lege football team," he continues. "It was a good way to learn. Looking back now, I wouldn't have wanted it any other way." 
Two years has made all the difference in the world for the senior finance major from Pueblo, Colo. Now a solid fixture in the Irish defensive secondary, Ballage no longer faces the constant criticism offans. 
"Pat has a great amount of confidence now, not only in terms of going one-on-one with a receiver, but also playing physical with the run," says Irish secondary coach Andy Chris­toff. "He has improved a great deal on his tech· nique. He does a good job recognizing offensive tendencies and helps our defensive alignments prior to the snap ofthe ball." 
Faced with an abundance of good corner­backs, the Irish coaches decided to move Ballage to strong safety last spring. The shoes he was to fill were big ones, those of the hard­hitting Joe Johnson. Still, there really was no doubt that Ballage could make the successful transition to strong safety. 
"In our system the strong safety and corner· backs are interchangeable," explains Chris­toff, "so Pat has had the experience ofplaying over a tight end and lining up as a nickel back in a strong safety position." 

Ballage is the sixth leading tackler for Notre Dame so far this season, pulling down op­ponents on 4 2 occasions, has two intercep­tions and feels right al home at strong safety. 
"It was a good switch for me in terms of the future," Ballage says. "It's my position. I kind of wish I could have been playing there ini­tially. I'm more comfonable back there now. I k.nowwhat to expect; experience is a big key." 
Experience in the defensive secondary is something Ballage had little of when he arrived at Notre Dame as a freshman. A tail­
''You're upset, you're down, but you've got to realize that everyone is going to make a mistake." 
-Pat Ballage 
back in high school, where he rushed for 2,1 1 0 career yards, Ballage was recruited by Notre Dame as a defensive back. 
Big Eight schools like Oklahoma, Nebraska and Colorado, as well as UCLA, all were recruiting Ballage as a tailback. Only Notre Dame wanted him as a defensive back, a posi­tion he had dabbled with in high school. 
Further, there was pressure to stay home and play college football in the Big Eight or WAC like most area players did. Ballage's brother had even played for Colorado. When it came time to choose a school, though, strangely enough Ballage chose Notre Dame. 
"I guess I was the wild one who decided I wanted to deviate from the norm, who wanted to get away from home," says Ballage. "Actually, I was kind of surprised that Notre Dame had found me in such a small area and such a great distance away." 
Ballage got a chance to return to his home state earlier this season when Notre Dame played at Air Force. The visit was not quite as pleasant as he might have liked, howeveld 
"The first question I get when I go home is usually about the Air Force game," Ballage says. "This year it was really special for me, being a senior and all. I was really hoping to beat them at least once while I was here." 
That may not have happened, but Ballage has his sights set on other goals these days. "Right now, I just want to help us win our last three games," he says, "and then I hope to be drafted next spring by the NFL But ifI'm not drafted," Ballage qualifies, "that will be OK because I have plenty of other options open to me be­cause of this place." 
None of those options, however, is likely to involve 59,075 people glaring down at him. 
Green 6 8 104 13.0 0 29 Cusack o-o 0 0 0 Williams 7 4 50 12.5 1 19 Seasly o-o 0 0 0 
Heck 4 2 35 17.5 0 23 -------------------
Cusack 5 2 33,16.5 0 19 NOTREOAME n2 44-205 29 14
Notre Dame statistics 

H. Francisco 7 1 5 5.0 0 5 PUNnNG G NO YDS AVG LG
Monahan 7 1 -2 -2.0 0 ·2 TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG ------------------­
-------------------Sorensen 
a 42 1744 41.5 57NOTREOAME 8 103 1415 13.7 6 49

--------------------------------------VonWyl 1 
1 13 13.0 13TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2824 2691 Pinkett 8 195 859 4.4 10 43 OPPONENTS 8 1161320 11.4 5 37 

44 201 4.6 2 16 ------------------­
Total Plays 568 587 H. Francisco 7 NOTREOAME 8 43 1757 40.9 57Yards per Play 5.0.0 4.6 Starns 8 37 148 4.0 323 OPPONENTS 8 39 1502 38.5 59353.0 336.4 Monahan 7 22 72 3.3 0 11

Yards per Game DEFENSE TMT1.-YDS PBU FR BK PENAL TIES· YARDS 52-440 32·295 Green 6 4 59 14.8 0 40 PUNT RET NO YDS AVG TO LG FUMBLES-LOST 12-7 26-15 Taylor 5 7 37 5.3 1 18 
Furjanic 108 2-7 4 0 :() ------------------­
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 156 155 Andrysiak 6 13 33 2.5 0 18 Kovaleski 67 2·20 1 0 0 Wilson 16 138 8.6 0 35 By Rushing 76 78 Southall 2 6 24 4.0 1 8 Dorsey 64 12-63 0 1 0 Cusack 5 41 8.2 0 19 ByPassing 75 66 Brown 7 2 9 4.5 0 7 Lawrence 
64 2-7 2 5 0 ------------------­
By Penalty 5 11 Carter 2 5 8 1.6 0 3 Figaro 43 2-5 2 0 0 NOTREOAME 21 179 8.5 0 35 THIRD DOWNS·CONV 46-117 4D-115 Jefferson 1 2 7 3.5 0 6 Ballage 42 1-3 1 1 0 OPPONENTS 23 135 5.9 0 28 Percentage .393 .348 Byrne 1 2 -7 -3.5 0 ·3 Wilson 42 4-10 6 1 0 POSSESSION TIME 238:20 241:40 Bauerlein 8 31 -41 ·1.3 1 16 Banks 38 2-9 0 0 0 Minutes per Game 29:47 30:13 -------------------Weissenhofer 36 1-7 0 1 0 KICKOFF RET NO YDS AVG TO LG NOTREOAME 8 370 1409 3.8 18 43 
Haywood 29 2-6 3 0 0 ------------------­
OPPONENTS 8 366 1371 3.7 8 39 Spence 26 o-o 5 2 0 Brown 8 231 28.9 193 SCORING GTD PAR-PAS FG TP 0 0
Kunz 26 3-17 0 Miller 4 89 22.3 030 Kleine 25 5-23 0 0 0 H. Francisco 2 34 17.0 0 18-------------------PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YOS TO Larkin 25 1-2 1 0 0 Jefferson 1 5 5.0 0 5Pinkett 8 10 0-0 o-oo 0·0 '60 
------------~---­

Carney 8 0 19-21 o-o 0 13-18 58 Bauerlein 8 159 80 . 71051 3 Wells 18 o-o 1 0 1 Monahan 1 0 0.0 0 0 Brown 7 4 0-0 D-00 0-0 24 Andrysiak 6 38 23 .605 1 364 3 Butler 17 0-0 0 0 0 Rehder 1 0 0.0 0 0 M. Dingens 17 1-1 1 1
Starns 8 3 0·0 D-00 0·0 18 Byrne 1 1 0 .000 0 0 0 0 -------------------
DiBernardo 16 o-o 0 1 NOTRE DAME 17 359 21.1 1 93H. Francisco 7 2 o-o o-oo o-o 12 -------------------0 
NO G.Dingens 15 1-15 0 0 0 OPPONENTS 13 278 21.4 0 49
Eason 8 1 0·0 0·0 0 0-0 6 8 198 103 .520 81415 6 Taylor 5 1 o-o D-00 0-0 6 OPP 8 221 116 .525 81320 5 Kiernan 15 1·1 0 0 0 
Pritchett

Bauerlein 8 1 0·0 D-1 0 o-o 6 9 o-o 0 1 0 
Williams 7 1 o-o o-oo 0-0 6 Gordon 7 2-9 0 0 0 INTRET NO YDS AVG TO LG
RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 

Rehder 8 1 o-o o-o o o-o 6 Kvochak 4 o-o 0 0 0 ------------------­
-------------------McCabe 3 o-o 0 0 0 Ball age 2 35 17.5 0 35Southall 2 1 o-o o-o o o-o 6 Brown 7 19 331 17.4 3 49 
Cusack 5 0 0-0 1-1 0 o-o 2 Southall 3 o-o 0 0 0 Haywood 2 25 12.5 0 25
Ward 7 18 271 15.1 0 26 

Andrysiak 6 0 0-0 D-1 0 o-o 0 Streeter 3 o-o 1 0 0 Lawrence 2 27 13.5 0 27
Miller 6 11 180 16.4 0 39 Martz Spence 1 13 13.0 0 13Von Wyl 1 0 0·1 o-o o o-o 0 2 o-o 0 0 0

Rehder 8 10 133 13.3 1 28 McGuffey 2 o-o 0 0 0 Wilson 1 0 0.0 0 0

-------------------
Eason 8 9 137 15.2 1 33 NO 8 25 19-22 1-3 0 13-18210 Hams 2 o-o 0 0 0 ---------·-----------
Starns 8 9 70 7.8 0 25 

OPP 8 15 14-14 1-1 0 8-15130 Robb 1 o-o 1 0 0 NOTREOAME 8 100 12.5 0 35
• Pinkett 8 9 68 7.6 0 22 Cooney 1 o-o 0 0 0 OPPONENTS 8 90 11.2 130 


Hunter leads Irish to Gator Bowl win 
second vfReeve's boots carne from 2 3 yards out with only two. ticks left on the scoreboard clock. 
Time Capsule 

Head Coach Joe Paterno's Uons may have had only three points
by Marty Burns 

when they took the field for the second half, but Notre Dame knew Penn State still had something· a roster full oftalented players. Quar· n Dec. 27, 1976, Head Coach Dan Devine had his Fighting Irish terback Chuck Fusina, fullback Matt Suhey and reciever Jimmy0 down in 'Gator land' surrounded by nasty Lions. Fortunately for 
Cefalo all would later go on to respectable professional careers in Notre Dame, there was a Hunter in its midst. football. 
Irish tailback AI Hunter, who earlier in the season had become the Those players gave it a good shot but the Irish were simply not to be 
first Notre Dame back to rush for more than 1,000 yards in a single had on this warm night in Jacksonville, Aa. The defense of Notre campaign, scratched out 102 yards and two first-half touchdowns to Dame looked as though it was wrestling a gator in the Lion offense, lead the 15th-ranked Irish over Penn State, 20·9, in the Gator Bowl. but still managed somehow to keep Penn State from victory. In fact, 
The victory gave Notre Dame a 9-3 final record for the '76 season. the only score for Penn State came after a blocked punt left the ball 
right in front of the Irish goal for Fusina and Suhey to collective~' Hunter made it look routine on both touchdown scores of the first transpon in moments later. half, cutting through the Nittany Uons' defense for a pair ofone-yard 
The victory was the third straight in postseason play for the Irish.
runs. The first of these carries gave the Irish a 7-3 lead after Terry Eurick had run 65 yards with the kickofffollowing a Penn State field The fourth straight, ofcourse, would involve much ofthe same cast, only transplanted to Texas, the following year. In that game, the Irish
goal. The second run completed a 51-yard drive highlighted by two lengthy pass hookups between quarterback Rick Slager to su.:;e· would clinch the National Championship. handed tight end Ken MacAfee. 
On this night in florida, however, no one was imagining anything 
• 

Sandwiched around that last score by Hunter were two Dave Reeve about a national title. Notre Dame simply was hunting for some Nit­field goals which helped to forge the 20· 3 halftime margin. The tany Lions and a Gator Bowl trophy. 


Friday, November 15, 1985 
Irish Ex~n -page 4 



VS.




e 
ame 


PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
.. 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports editor and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the 







Jeff Blumb Phil Wolf LMryBurke Kelty PortoleH Chuck Freeby BIIIH..ay Tim Mould
spread. In other words, it isn't 

Sports Editor Sports Writer Asst. Sports Editor SMC Sports Editor Sports Writer Guest Celebrity Random Student 
enough to pick the winner of a given 

51-4~2 4~51-2 44-52-2 43-53-2 42-54-2 51-45-2 46-50-2 
game. The person must pick the 

.531 .489 .459 .449 .439 .531 .480
winner and give the underdog 

(last Week: 8·6-0) (last week: 7·7-0) (last week: 9-5-0) (last week: 7-7-0) (last week: 9-5-0) (last week: 9-5-0) (last week: 1<>-4-o)
points. Home team is in CAPS. 

Michigan over MINNESOTA by 10 Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Gophers Wolverines Gophers GophersFLORIDA over Kentucky by 15.5 Gators Gators Gators Gators Gators Gators Gators WEST VIRGINIA over Temple by 7 Owls Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Owls Mountaineers Mountaineers EORGIA over Auburn by 1 Tigers Bulldogs Tigers Bulldogs Tigers Bulldogs TigersSYRACUSE over Boston College by 6. 5 Eagles Orangemen Eagles Eagles Orangemen Orangemen Orangemen ARMY over Memphis State by 6 Cadets Cadets Cadets Cadets Cadets Cadets Cadets TENNESSEE over Mississippi by 15.5 Rebels Volunteers Rebels Rebels Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers 
SOUTH CAROUNA over Navy by 6.5 Midshipmen Gamecocks Gamecocks Midshipmen Gamecocks Gamecocks MidshipmenIowa over PURDUE by 10 Boilermakers Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Boilermakers Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Maryland over CLEMSON by 4.5 Terrapins Terrapins Terrapins Terrapins Terrapins Terrapins Terrapins
TEXAS A&M and Arkansas-pick 'em Razorbacks Aggies Razorbacks Aggies Razorbacks Razorbacks Aggies . WASHINGTON over Southern Cal by 3 Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies LOUISIANA ST. over Mississippi St. by 10 Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers PENN STATE over Notre Dame by 2 Irish Irish Lions Irish ·uons Irish Irish 

By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
W 
hen Notre Dame and Penn State square 
off tomorrow afternoon in State Col­
lege, Pa., it will be the Nittany Lions' first 
chance to defend their No. 1 ranking in the AP 
poll. Many people are forecasting another trip 
to a major bowl and a possible national cham· 
pionship for Penn State, but not Nittany Lion 
head coachJoe Paterno. 
"We're playing Notre Dame this weekend," said Paterno. "You can waste your time asking those questions. We've got to play Notre Dame." 
Heading into their final two games of the season, the Lions are rolling. While they haven't exactly been demolishing their op· ponents, their 9·0 record speaks for itself. While many have said that Penn State hasn't played a high-caliber schedule, Irish head coach Gerry Faust believes the polls are cor­rect in their ranking ofPenn State. 
"I think Penn State deserves the No. 1 ranking," Faust said. "They're right where they belong. All it takes is one point to win a football game. They've been good enough and played hard enough to win when they had to win. We're looking forward to going up to play them." 
In the back ofthe Penn State's mind will be last season's meeting between the two teams. The Irish were in complete control throughout the ga"!e and roared to a 44-7 win. 
"We're going at things 100 percent differently from last year," said Paterno, in his 20th year as Penn State head coach. "We've worke'Cl aw· fully hard. That doesn't mean we're going to go out there and kill them, though." 
For the Irish, this will be yet another shot at a top-ranked team. Notre Dame is 4-2 in its last six meetings with a No. 1 team. In addition, a win over Penn State would keep the Irish tur· naround going. 
Notte Dame's offense vs. Penn Swe's defense: 
When speaking ofthe past three meetings bet­ween Notre Dame and Penn State, the name Allen Pinkett inevitably comes up. Pinkett has had some of his best games ever against the Nittany Lions. In his freshman year, he returned a kickoff for 93 yards and a touch· down. The following year, he rushed for 21 7 yards and four touchdowns, the best perfor· mance of his career to date. Last year Pinkett again scored four touchdowns while gaining 189 yards. It's no wonder Paterno has seen enough of the senior tailback. 
"I wish Allen all the best in his pro career," Paterno said. "He's had a great (college) career. He's a delightful young man. He's got a lot of zip, and he's a great football player. But yes, I'll be happy to see him go." 
Pinkett is once again expected to be a major factor in the Irish offense. So far this season he has rushed for 859 yards on 195 carries, a 4.4 yard average, and has scored 10 touchdowns. 
Joining Pinkett in 
"We're going to make them prepare for both by not saying anything." 
Paterno, though, doesn't think it matters that much. 
"I don't see any difference between the two except that Beuerlein has more experience. (Andrysiak) may be quicker running the ball, but I haven't seen enough of him. I'm sure he throws better than adequately." 
On the season, Beuerlein has completed 79· of-1 59 passes (a .497 percentage) for 1,051 yards, three touchdowns and seven intercep­tions. Like Pinkett, Beuerlein has had his best games against Penn· State, going 34-of-48 for 524 yards in two meetings. Meanwhile, Andrysiak has completed 23-of-38 (a .605 percentage) for 364 yards, three touchdowns and one interception. 

Whoever starts will have an excellent corps of receivers, led by Tim Brown's 19 receptions for 331 yards and three scores. Reggie Ward has caught 18 for 2 71 yards, while Alvin Miller has 11 catches for 133 yards. 
As a unit, the Irish offense has been racking up 353 yards and 26.3 points a game. 
Once again, the Penn State defense is 
enough points. Faust doesn't subscribe to this. 
"I think the mark of a great football team is its ability to win the close games and come from behind when it's a tight game in the fourth quarter," said the Irish coach. "They've done that all year, and you have to give them credit." 
This game again features a pair of premier run· ning backs in Pinkett and Penn State's D.). Dozier. Dozier has rambled for 591 yards on 124 carries (a 4.8 average) and three scores. The junior tailback is joined in the backfield by senior fullback Steve Smith, who has carried 71 times for 386 yards and two touch· downs. Smith is also a threat as a receiver out of the backfield, catching 12 balis for Ill yards and one touchdown. 
The quarterback for the Nittany Lions is junior John Schaffer, who played junior-varsity at Moeller High School while Faust was head coach there. Schaffer is 91-of-203 ( 44.8 per­cent) for 1,196 yards, seven touchdowns and nine interceptions. 
"John's got to be a more consistent thrower," said Paterno of his quarterback. "He's not a great quarterback, but he sure can do it in the dutch." 
Schaffer's main target this year has been sop­homore split end Ray Roundtree, who has 14 catches totalling 248 yards and two touch· down receptions. Senior flanker Eric Hamil· ton also has caught 12 passes for 184 yards and a touchdown. 
The Penn State offense has been averaging 330 yards and 22 points a contest. Watch for senior placekicker Massimo Manca to be a fac­tor ifthe game is cloSe. Manca has hit on l 5-of· 20 field goals ( 4-of-4 inside the 30) and all 21 of his extra-point attempts. 
The recent Irish resurgence is due in large part to their defensive efforts. Over the past four games, the Notre Dame defense has allowed its opponents 31 2 yards and 11 points a game. 
A large part of the defensive showing in the past few weeks has been the emergence ofleft tackle Eric Dorsey, who Faust says is "a bonafide candidate for all-American." On the season, Dorsey has made 64 tackles, including 12 for losses totalling 63 yards. He will be joined by right tackle Jeff Kunz on the defensive line. 
The Irish will play the 4-3 alignment, using the two outside linebackers, Cedric Figaro ( 43 tackles) and Robert Banks ( 38), as defensive ends. Inside, the Irish are led by co-captain Tony Furjanic's 108 tackles. Joining him are co-captain Mike Larkin ( 25 tackles) and Mike Kovaleski ( 67). 
\ 

Free safety Steve Lawrence leads the Irish . secondary with 64 tackles and two intercep· tions. He is joined by strong safety Pat Ballage ( 42 tackles, 2 interceptions) and cornerbacks Troy Wilson ( 42, 1) and Mike Haywood ( 29, 2). 
the backfield is ful­lback Frank Starns, who has run for 148 yards and three scores. The Irish backfield has plenty of relief in Hiawatha Francisco ( 201 yards, 2 TDs) and Tom Monahan ( 72 yards). 
For the second game in a row, Gerry Faust has kept his starting quarterback a mys­tery, although in· dications are that Steve Beuerlein will get the nod over Terry Andrysiak. Last week Andrysiak started but rotated with Beuerlein. 
"No comment," said Faust when asked about the situation. 

led by a superb group of lineback­ers. Headed by inside linebackers Trey Bauer and Rogers Alexander ( 87 tackles each), the Nittany Lions are surrendering 320.8 yards, but only 13.6 points per game. The Penn State defense is a veteran one, starting seven seniors and four juniors. 
Penn State's of­fense against Notre Dame's defense: 
A major criticism of Penn State is that it 
.isn't scoring many points and therefore isn't winning by 





