Bon apetit-pages 6, 7 


VOL XIX, NO. 132 tilt: indcpt·ndt·llt -.tudcnt lll.,.,.,papt'r -.en 111g notn daml' .md -.amt man·., 

Sullivan demands use of principles 
By DAN McCULLOUGH quate housing, the establishment of 
News Editor full citizenship for blacks, and a role for blacks in the South African politi­cal process. 
U.S. companies in South Africa "In addition, American companies must do more to improve the quality must support and work toward en­of life out~ide the factory gates for ding all apartheid laws in South black workers, said Rev. Leon Sui-Africa." he said. "Any government 
' !ivan at a Notre Dame lecture yester­policies at the expense of exploita­day. tion and the oppression of a popula­Sullivan is the author of the tion are doomed to failure." Sullivan principles, a set of 
American companies must either
guidelines for U.S. companies in 
agree to these new principles, or suf­
South Africa to help contribute to 
fer the wrath ofthe American public,
social and political justice for blacks. 
according to Sullivan. "If these things are not attained in
"We must use American com­
a specified period of time, other ac­
panies as a lever and a catalyst for the 
tion will be needed including the to­

other nations of the world," said Sul­
tal embargo against South Africa," he
livan. "Already this catalyst effect is 
told the audience of more than I 00
beginning to show itself." 
students, faculty and staff gathered

"The time for the U.S. to play tid­
for the talk in the Library 

dlywinks with the South African 
Auditorium. 

Modern art?
government has ended," he said. Sullivan, a Philadelphia Baptist Sullivan would not specify how Pablo lturralde and his friend seem perplexed with the exploration of sound in the visual arts. minister and a member of General long he would give the American about a painting displayed at the Riley Art Build­The exhibition will continue under Sunday, April Motors' board of directors, has im­companies to comply to his plan. ing. The painting is part ofan exhibition dealing 29 in theIsis Gallery oftheArtBuilding. proved his original Sullivan prin­"There is a time factor in my mind. ciples and now calls for a There will be a time when if what I "tightening" of these principles and say has not been done, I will speak in for companies to "deal with the fun­the opposite direction than I do 

Committee to serve as watchdog 
damental problems of political right now," he said. 
Editor's Note: This is part one ofa In order to arrive at that educated he said. "But we're striving to be the
change outside the work place." According to Sullivan, what is 
four article series dealing with the opinion, Healy has created the Com-' best university in the country, and
According to Sullivan, steps needed is "a non-violent liberation 
problems in South Africa and the mittee for Responsible Business it's issues such as this one that
toward this goal should include of the South African population." 
relation ofthis n;mflict to the Notre Practices, a large committee to be demonstrates why we deserve our
equal pay for equal work for black Sullivan said Notre Dame should 
Dame community. Today's article made up of several subcommittees. reputation."
workers, free black trade unions, review its investment policy for 



freedom of mobility for blacks in search of jobs, provisions for ade-see PRINCIPLES, page 3 
Ruckelshaus to plant views on environmental concerns 
By MARY CAROL 1976, he joined the Weyer­CREADON haeuser Company in Tacoma, SeniorStaffReporter ""'ash., as a senior vice president 
for law and corporate affairs. The state of the air we breathe 
Ruckelshaus resigned from hisand other environmental issues position as administrator of theofthe I 980s wili be addressed by 

EPA in December 1984. He said

William Ruckelshaus, former ad­
then he would depart with aministrator of the Environmental sense of having completed theProtection Agency, during his job he set out to do in Marchspeech tonight. 

1983, which was to rescue the
Ruckelshaus is scheduled to agency from scandal followingvoice his opinions on the en­charges of Ann Burford's mis­vironmental outlook at 8 in Was­management. Said Ruckelshaus,hington Hall as a part of the "The ship called EPA is rightedStudent Activities Board lecture 

and is now steering a steady

series. 
course."
A native of Indianapolis, Ruck­Ruckelshaus was praised byelshaus was the first ad­the Reagan administration forministrator ofthe agency when it raising morale, renewingwas founded in 1970, and was un­

momentum, improving ef­animously confirmed by the U.S. 

ficiency, and increasing enforce­Senate when he was asked to ment at the EPA. Evenreturn by President Reagan in environmentalist William Reilly,1983 as the agency's fifth direc­prMident • of the Conservationtor. 

Foundation, was impressed withDuring the time he was not Ruckelshaus's work at the EPA,

director of the EPA, the graduate saying, "Ruckelshaus has effected
of Princeton University and Har­
the most impr~sive turn-aroundvard Law School was acting that I have seen in my time indirector of the Federal Bureau of Washington."

Investigation and later was the deputy attorney general of the Environmentalists give Ruck­
U.S. Department of Justice in elshaus fair to good marks for his 1973. enforcing of clean air and water 
From 1974 to 1976, Ruckel-laws and using the superfund for 5haus was a senior partner in a Washington law firm, and in seeEPA,pqe4 
focuses on the student government One of these subcommittees will Specifically, Baccanari is con­
and its reaction to the University's study Notre Dame's business invest­cerned with what the University is 
policy of investing in companies ments in companies involved in doing to improve the living condi­
with interests in South Afn'ca. South Africa and will be chaired by tions and the civil and human rights 
Pat Baccanari. for blacks in South Africa. 
By KURT MAURER 
To the new cabinet position that 
News Staff will oversee the Committee for 
Responsible Business Practices, 

It has been said that wise men South Healy appointed john Dettling. Ac­
think before they speak. If that is cording to Dettling, student govern­
Africa 
true, then student government is ap­ment wanted to create a permanent 
proaching the issue of Notre Dame's Investments office that the administration will 
business investments in companies not be able to casually dismiss. 
involved in South Africa wisely. 
"It's the role of student govern­"Damn it. It's time the University "Whether the administration 
ment to check into such things as takes the lead on issues like this and recognizes it or not, the students 
University business practices. Stu­have its policies reflect this leader­represent a segment of the Univer­
dents have an interest in these things ship," said Baccanari. sity's moral conscience. Therefore, 
and we should have an educated "It would be real easy for other we feel obliged to actively par-
opinion," said Student Body Presi­universities to make a statement and 
dent Bill Healy. then for Notre Dame to follow suit," see SERIES, page 4 



Senate approves investment chair 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI the University's policy, only in ob­to express dissatisfaction with the SeniorStaffReporter taining an informed opinion on the apartheid policy. Also, the commit­subject. tee will look into the moral respon­
Whether it was investments in john Deuling was appointed to sibility of the University as a South Africa or student activities the position that will oversee the Catholic institution concerning fees, money seemed to be the topic Committee for Responsible Busi­South African investments. of conversation at last night's Stu­ness Practices, the the committee Healy said the University does not dent Senate meeting. which will study Notre Dame's busi­have any direct investments in South 
By approving a new cabinet posi­ness practices. Its first action will be Africa but does invest in multi­tion, the senate put the finishing to educate the senate on the Univer­national corporations that do busi­touches on a committee which will sity's business policies regarding ness in South Africa. study the University's business South Africa. A proposal was also submitted to practices, including its investments Senate representatives said they the senate to increase the student in companies involved in South would like to meet with the Board of activities fee from the present S35 to Africa. Trustees' investment committee to 150. The proposal also would create 
Because University President Fat­find out the extent of Notre Dame's a University matching fund that her Theodore Hesburgh is so well involvement in South Africa. would contribute directly to the stu­known, Student Body President Bill In a press release, the senate dent activities office for the purpose Healy said, "Notre Dame can be at stated the committee would try to of promoting undergraduate club • the· forefront of positive change in uncover the obligations of Notre nights. the country's policy towards South Dame to alumni, students and Lee Broussard, who headed the Africa." faculty concerning the disclosure of committee that looked into increas-
Healy said the senate is not ad· investments as well as whether or vocating disinvestment or reform in not disinvestment is the best means see SENATE, paae 4 
\ 
\ 
\ 


1
I 
t The Observer Tuesday, April 23, 1985 -page 2 

The Notre Dame Knights ofColumbus 
celebrated their 75th anniversary during the weekend with ac­tivities attended by national and state officials. The Notre Dame group is the oldest and one of the largest college councils in the nation. Activities began with a reception Friday night for Supreme Knight Virgil Dechant, Notre Dame administrators and knights from several Indiana and midwest councils. "The Catholic Church and the 
U.S. Economy" was the subject ofa panel discussion Saturday. Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, was the principal celebrant at the Anniversary Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Speakers at the banquet following were Father Hesburgh; Dechant; Notre Dame Grand Knight joseph]. Creely III; and Eli Shaheen, long-time friend of the Notre Dame council. -1be Observer 
Of Interest · , 
William Ruckelshaus will speakin Notre 
Dame's Washington Hall tonight at 8. Ruckelshaus, the former ad­ministrator for the Environmental Protection Agency, will be making a speech titled, "On the State of the Environment in the 1980s." -The Observer 
The College Business Associates of Saint 
Mary's, will honor PresidentJohn Duggan during a May 1 meeting, at which Duggan will address the group. 1be Business Associates is a group of 80 representatives from local businesses, formed to strengthen the relationship between Saint Mary's and the South Bend community. -1be Obseroer 
"The Silent Scream," a controversial film that 
depicts the abortion ofa 12-weekold child, will be shown tonight in the Center for Social Concerns at 9:30. This 30-minute film is narrated by Bernard Nathanson, an abortionist turned pro-lifer. The film is sponsored by the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Right to Life group. -1be Observer 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Lab Theater will present performances each night until May 2 at 7:30 in Was­hington Hall. The seven plays, directed and acted by students, will be presented two nights each. Students, staff, and faculty are en· couraged to attend. -The Obsen)er 
"God, Country and Notre Dame" will be the topic of a lecture by Colonel Francis Gabreski, USAF (Ret.), the only living American air ace. The lecture will be tonight at 7 in the Notre Dame Memorial libraryAuditorium. Admission is free and the lecture is open to the public. The lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame Air Force ROTC unit. -The Obseroer 


Weather

. 
Nothing lasts forever, not 
even the sunny days in South Bend, as there is a 70 percent chance ofthunderstorms today. The warm temperatures will last, however, as the high again will be 80·85, with southern winds reaching 15-25 mph. The rain likely will con­tinue into tonight as there is an 80 percent chance of thunderstorms with a low ofaround 
55. There is a a 50 percent chance of rain tomorrow, mainly in the morning, and it will be cooler with a high of65-70..AP 

The _Observer 
Tbe Obee~Ter (USPS ~99 2·4000) is published Monday through friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. 1bc Oblcrwer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may tK: purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per~· mcster) by writing The ~n-cr, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46~S6 
11w ~ is a memtK:r of The 
Awocbted Prall. All reproduction 
rights are rc:sel'\led. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ............................. Paul Bruce DesignAssistant........jane Anne Riedford Layout Staff........... Melissa Warnke, Alice 
Kroeger, Becky Gunderman 
Typesetten-.... Jennifer Bigon. Tracy Brin· 
gardner News Editor.............................Scott Bearby 
Copy Editor ...................... Mark Pankowski Sports Copy Editor................. Marty Burns Viewpoint Copy Editor..........Joe Murphy Vtewpotnt Layout............ Melissa Warnke Features Layout .............Catherine Coffey ND Day Editor........................Aimee Storin SMC Day Editor...............Toni Rutherford Photographer ............... Chaitanya Panchal 



Reagan travel agency recommends itinerary which pleases everyone 
Well he's done it again. 
Ronald Reagan, king ofthe bleep, bloop and blunder, has committed yet another faux pas. The controversy surrounding his visit to a German cemetary with the remains of some of Hitler's Nazi troops, and the no·I­won't·yes-I-will concentration camp visit, has focused world-wide attention on presidential p.r. again. 
Unfortunately that's all the controversy amounts to­a disaster for the Reagan administration image-makers. It no secret that public relations in the Reagan ad­ministration very often dictate policy and plans. The fear of negative public opinion, and in this case, how that could affect crucial votes on Nicaraguan aid corn­ing this week, always has been enough to sway Reagan and his aides. 
The latest presidential turnaround came after American jewish groups and veterans organizations applied tremendous political pressure to the president and close advisors, upon hearing ofReagan's plans. 
Those plans call for 
Reagan next month to visit man accomplishments, rat­Bitburg, a German military her than past destruction. cernetary, during a trip to Reagan said he would not West Germany. That look weak and back down cernetary, in addition to the from his visit to the graves of nearly 2,000 Ger­cernetary, despite requests man soldiers, contains 4 7 from jewish groups here and bodies ofHitler's elite storm abroad. But that was the troopers. Some of those SS only reason he gave. The men were members of the tough guy image he and his lst Panzer Division, troops aides try so hard to portray who used machine guns to will not be compromised. kill American prisoners of When Reagan puts a fear of war and Belgian civilians looking wimpy above the during the Battle of the wish~s of American Jews 
Bulge. and veterans still suffering 
In other words, Reagan the effects ofthe Nazis, there will be laying a wreath at a is something wrong. cernetary containing some To pacify all involved, 
of Hitler's most prized sol· diers, who swore a special oath to the Fuhrer and 
helped to carry out his plans of annihilating six million Jews during the war. 
Despite all his words about "never forgetting the Holocaust," Reagan is giving the opposite message. By refusing to visit the cemetary, he would be giving a clear message that Americans still do not recognize, and will condemn always, the actions ofthe Nazi party. This also would give the not-so-subtle message needed to the American Nazi Party, recently cooperating and be­coming more active with similar hate groups, especially in the South. 
Reagan's reason for the visit is to "celebrate the ac­complishments of democracy and reconciliation in West Germany" in the years since the war. In other words, he wants to show that we don't hold a grudge anymore. Another great Reagan p.r. line. Anyone could figure out more tactful ways to "celebrate the ac­complishments of democracy" besides visiting the 
1ha1kstoyou... itwortcs... 
for ALL OFUS 

Unlliedway 



ANNOUNCING OUR NEW OFFICE 
1341 PORTAGE AVENUE 
Martin's Shopping Center 

(219) 234-2400 

20% off glasses
20% off glasses 
with student I.D.
with student I. D. 

Professional Vision 
ASSOCIATES 
Dr. Ronald L Snyder Dr. Patrick Albert 
1asN. lronwaad  1M1PortQge  4112W.W_..m  
177·1111  234-MIO  217-StMI  
North of Mc:Oonlld·a  Martin's Shopping Ctr.  Belleville Shoppng Ctr.  

SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE SUMMER SESSION "LINKAGE SYSTEMS: URBAN OPEN SPACES.. Open to students from ANTHROPOLOGY, ARCHITECTURE, COMMUNICATION, ARTS, SOCIOLOGY and related fields. 
The proposed study will consider appropriate spacial types in terms of linkage-systems. 
Austin, TX; San Antonio, TX; Portland, OR; Toronto, Canada; London, England; etc, and local centers will be used as sites for design proposals. 
One week's study may be made at the Environmental Awareness Center, University of Wisconsin, at Madison, on a site adjacent to Taliesen. 
A brochure of the collection of individual studies and group conclusions will be the final product of study. 
Theresa Guarino 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ..•. 
graves ofNazi soldiers. 
As Chicago Tribune columnist Mike Royko pointed out, there are many other worthy Germans who have made positive contributions to their country, while at the same time enhancing the culture ofother countries, like composers and writers. Of all the graves to visit to celebrate German accomplishments since World War II, why those of men who are the reason for Germany's "constant penance" as Reagan referred to the Holocaust? American-German relations can be better 
solidified by looking to Ger­
Reagan announced Friday he also will be visiting the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp next month. Obviously his aides hope the two visits will balance each other out. But for those whose parents, spouses, and children died at the hands of the SS troops, it just doesn't compensate. 
The fact that Reagan had announced in March that no concentration camp visit was planned doesn't help eit· her. It just proves to those concerned that the tur­nabout only was made to save face, not because the president wants to remember those killed there. 
Public relations obviously has become the most im­portant post in Reagan's Kitchen Cabinet. But when humanitarian concerns take a backseat to presidential popularity, it seems time to start rethinking priorities. 
Not backing down and laying a wreath down at a cernetary containing some ofHitler's best men may en­hance Ronald Reagan's tough cowboy image. But tell that to survivors of the concentration camps who still remember. 
Dr. Jeffrey Coppes 132 E. lrellnd 211...7171 Colony CleMers Bldg. 

The Observer 
Tuesday, April 23, 1985 -page 3 
I 





Cops inflict 'torture' 
Associated Press device shaped like a hand-held tape 
recorder that had two electronic 
NEW YORK -Two police officers prongs. were arrested last night and charged The officers were arrested for with inflicting "medieval torture" "infliction of what you might con­on an 18-year-old narcotics suspect sider a medieval torture on an 18­by using an electric stun gun, a year-old individual in custody," the prosecutor said. prosecutor said. 
Sgt. Richard Pike, 50, of Selden, "This kind of behavior will not be and Officerjeffrey Gilbert, 33, ofEl­tolerated," Murphy said. "There is mont, were charged with assault in no room in the Police Department the second degree, a felony, Queens for policemen who engage in this DistrictAttorneyJohn Santucci said. kind of behavior." 
Acting Police Commissioner Murphy said the device, which Patrick Murphy said both officers Santucci described as "a stun gun, a were suspended immediately wit­zapper, any number of names," was hout pay. recovered April 1 7 -the night ofthe 
Santucci told a news conference incident -in a stolen automobile. that the suspect, Mark Davidson, was Davidson said Sunday that "I was burned Wednesday night with a pleading with them to please stop." 
Mr. Goodbar clue no. 2 
Here is tbesecondcluehinting at the whereabouts ofAnTostal's elusive Mr. Goodbar. 
The pit is lovely, dark, and deep, but explorers have miles to go before they sleep. Watch your step, don't fall in, or Mr. Good­bar's laughs will begin. 

THE EARLY ,..,BIRD•••  
Classes starting May 12  
GMAT Clll 01ys (YenifiiS I Weekend$ 1717 E.So.Bend Educational Center 272-4135  

should be the object of a divesting panies refused to adhere adequately campaign." to the Sullivan principles.


Principles 
Currently, Notre Dame has an in­Previously, the Notre Dame ad­vestment policy that requires ministration has stated it would not
continuedfrom page 1 
American companies in South Africa expose the companies' names be­American companies in South in which the University invests to cause it would embarrass the com­Africa. "They should review their adhere to the original Sullivan prin­panies. policy in light of the new amplifica­ciples. The policy, which was passed The University should let them be tions of the principles, which takes by the University's board of trustees embarrassed, said Sullivan. "By all us outside the work place," he said. in 1978, also allows for the periodic means," he said. "I think the actions 
"I urge every university!~ review review of the policy. should be made public. I have no 
·the situation in light of the cir­Additionally, Sullivan called for problem with that. Black people are cumstances. These companies that the University to divulge the names being embarrassed every day by the do not adhere to the expanded Sul­of the companies from which Notre apartheid laws of the South African 
iivan principles with a passing mark Dame · divested because the com-government." 

Statistical and Reporting Software for IBM PC/XT and AT* 
SPSSIP<? is the most comprehensive statistical package available for performing simple or complex tasks, regardless of data size. It maintains feature and language compatibility with mainframe SPSS~ while optimizing for the PC environment. 
Designed to maximize your productivity, SPSS/PC offers three-letter truncation of commands; the abilltv to batch process commands; save and enter commands in groups; receive on-line help; redirect input and output to screen, disk and/or printers and more. 
Statistics range from simple descriptive to complex multivariate, including Multiple Regression, ANOVA, Factor and Cluster analysis. Loglinear and nonpara­metric procedures are also included. 
Simple facilities allow transfer of files between SPSS/PC and programs like Lotus 1·2·3, dBase II and SAS. A complete Report Writer, plo'ding facilities and communications program for mainframes round out a fully integrated product. 
For more Information, contact our Marketing Department at: SPSS Inc., 444 N. Michigan Avenue, Chicago, IL 60611.312/329-3500. 
In Europe: SPSS Benelux B.V., P.O. Box 115, 4200 AC Gorinchem, The Netherlands. Phone: +31183036711. TWX: 21019. VISA, MasterCard and American Express accepl8d. 

"SPSSIPC runs on lhe IBM PCIXT with 320K memory and a hard disk. and 18M PC/AT wi1tl hard disk. lVI 8087 co-processor is ti8COitilnet lded. Ccrtact SPSS Inc. tor oCher c:ompad)le OCln'lpJtars. IBN PCIXT and PC/IJare trademarks oflneemabonal Business Machines ~aliott. dBase II is a trademark of Ashtlo-Tale. 1-2-3 is a~of Lolus Oeveloprnert Corporlbon. SAS is a registared ll'aden'lM of SAS Institute, Inc. SPSS and SPSSI are ~c:J SPSS Inc. tor tts proprietary oornputer sc:Atvee. 
"' Copynght 1985, SPSS Inc. 
Sullivan said students should sup­pon him in his fight for the accep­tance of his improved principles. "You must get the administration to support me in what I am trying to do," he said. 
Sullivan's talk, titled "The Sullivan Principles: The Use of Corporate Power for Human Welfare in South Africa," was sponsored by the Col­lege of Business Administration. Sul­livan was on campus to attend a conference on the involvement of multi-national corporations and religious groups. 
Confident that his principles have had an impact on the South African government's system of apartheid, or the systematic discrimination of blacks through political and ecomonic means, Sullivan said the United States and the world are beginning to realize the atrocities of the system. "The question is no longer if it will come to an end, but how," he said. 
U.S. companies have taken the lead in improving the status ofSouth African blacks, said Sullivan. "Blacks are supervising whites for the first time," he said .... Much is happening to improve the quality of life for 

black workers. And this is  to  the  
credit  of American  company  ef­ 
forts."  
But  Sullivan  added,  "Now  the  

equal rights efforts of these com­panies must be intensified." "American companies must set exampie and take the firmest ofposi­

, tions as never before," he said. "The president of the United States must set aside constructive engagement and use diplomacy to work for the elimination of apartheid policies." 
"And America must be -fOllowed. by the British, the Germans, the French, the Italians, the Israelis and the Japanese," he said. 
But the principles alone will not be enough, according to Sullivan. "The ultimate purpose of the prin­ciples is to contribute along with ot­her thrusts to eliminate apartheid," he said. 
Embargoes are one way in which the U.S. can affect apartheid policies, said Sullivan. 
In addition, the United States must use "utmost force" to pn the com­pliance of its companies, said Sul­livan. "In the meantime, American companies and others in the world must mack time in South Afrjca. They should call for no new expan­sion of production of facilities, no newbankloans, no sales to the South African military or police, and a halt of the sale of Kruggerand (South African currency made of gold) in the U.S. if they hope to send a clear message that the U.S. means business 


lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil about its directions." 

T 
-------------------------· ---­
I 
I The Observer Tuesday, April 23, 1985 -' page 4 



Series 
continuedfrom page I 
ticipate in the practical applications ofthat moral conscience." 
Emphasizing the need for strong student support, Dettling said, "Student interest will d~termine how influential this office will be with the administration." 
The primary purpose of the new committee, according to Dettling, will be to determine exactly what issues must be addressed and subse­quently to gather information on those issues to facilitate an intel­ligent student opinion. The commit­tee will approach every issue in a non-partisan manner. 
As the committee is still in its 
initial phases, only the subcommit­
tee on South Africa has begun its 
work, but Dettling said that others 
are planned for the future. 
Other issues the committee in­
tends to confront include the Uni­
versity's investments in nuclear 
industry and unionization at Notre 
Dame. 
Notre Dame does invest in multi­national corporations that do busi­ness in South Africa but has no direct investments in that country. The specific questions which Baccanari's subcommittee is addressing include: 
•Does the presence of multi­national corporations contribute to 


Senate 
continuedfrom page I 
ing the fee, said, "We need more money." The reasons for the in­crease, says the proposal, are that Notre Dame needs an improved so­cial life and that in comparison with other schools, Notre Dame's activity fee is much lower. 
The proposal concludes, "An in­crease in the fee is necessary so that Notre Dame social life will continue to increase and insure the University of Notre Dame's continual overall growth." 
"I am strongly against any in­crease," said Jim Domagalski, sop­homore class president, "Throwing money at the problem won't solve it." 
Domagalski said he would rather see a redistribution of the money presently given to the Student Ac­tivities Board. "It's perplexing to give the administration money to plan a social life when we (student government) were elected to do that job," he said. 
K. C. Culum, District 2 Senator ageed with Domalgalski. "We shouldn't be giving money to the University to run our social life," Culum said. "We should vote it down and tell the University to stop throwing money at it and take a look at the real problem," he said. 
Broussard said a separate proposal from the administration to the Board of Trustees for an increased student activities fee will probably be passed anyway. By approving the senate's proposal, Broussard said the senate could at least get some say into where the money goes. 
The senate eventually decided to table the discussion and continue it at its next meeting. 
EPA 
continuedfrom page I 
cleaning up hazardous waste dumps ' They point out that he had been frustrated in his attempts to secure a program to combat acid rain and in his never-ending battles with the Office of Management and Budget. 
Professor Conrad Kellenberg of the Notre Dame Law School agreed that Ruckelshaus restored morale at the EPA during his second term, but said he wasn't sure if what Ruckel­shaus failed to accomplish was his fault or was because of pressures "from above." Under the present ad­ministration, says KeUenberg, the EPA is not doing the best job it can. He said he fears "environmental dqradation could cause serious cbttal5 to future aeoer.Wons." 
or assuage apartheid? 
• 
How does their presence affect the oppressed black population? 

•What 
obligation does the Univer­sity administration have to the Notre Dame community concerning the disclosure ofits investments? 

• 
What are the real eJJects of shareholder activism on corporate decision-making? 

•
Is disinvestment the best means to express dissatisfaction with the apartheid policy? 

• 
What is the moral responsibility of the University as a Catholic institu­tion and a national ethical voice con­cerning South African investments? 


Both Healy and Baccanari distinguished between this student government committee and the Anti-Apartheid Network (formerly the South African Network) that is presently forming on campus. The Anti-Apartheid Network is not un­der the direction ofstudent govern­ment, although student government is one of the 15 to 17 groups par­ticipating in the Network. 
When the subcommittee has con­cluded its research, according to Baccanari, it will submit a statement to the student body via the Student Senate. Baccanari said the statement will appear sometime next semester. 
Aside from the need for student support of which Dettling spoke, Healy and Baccanari emphasized the need for cooperation and open 

ooocococ~~~~~~~oo~ 
.. 
•
•
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
•
•
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
•
.. 
•
•
•
• 
..• ..• 
.. 
.. 
• 
..• 
•
•
•
• ..•• 
.. 
.. 
•
• 

orne see the finals ofthe: 
1stAnnual Pizza Hut Special Delivery 

PIZZA CHALLENGE 
Tuesday, Apri123, 1985 8:00pm LaFortune Ballroom 
This event will feature teams from: 
1.) Keenan 2.) Sorin  3.) St. Ed's 4.) Pangborn 5.) Breen-Phillips  
•••  







We're #I_ in Making Student Loans 
Get cash to cover college expenses without the worry or the hassle. 
Visit our main office downtown, or call our student loan experts at 237-5410, today. 
Because We Make 
Them Simple. 

ftJOIIPHBAD 
MEMBER FDIC 
dialogue if the Notre Dame com­munity is to learn about this i~ue and take a leading role in ending apartheid. Their pleas were directed primarily toward the administration, and in particular, toward Father Ric­hard Zang, Notre Dame's investment officer. 
Zang's failure to appear last Wed­nesday night at a panel discussion sponsored by the Black and African Studies Programs in cooperation with student government left Healy 
and  Baccanari  extremely  disap­ 
pointed.  
Said  Healy,  "The  Notre  Dame  

community deserves to know what's going on. By Zang's refusing to ap­pear in public, he violated the Notre Dame community idea that this is a university where we agree to dis­agree and that there are sometimes shared values and sometimes not." 
Referring to the leader ofthe Anti­Apartheid Network, Peter Walshe, Healy said, "We want to get ed­ucated on this issue, and the best way to do that is to get everybody communicating, be it Peter Walshe, be it Father Zang. By refusing to show up, Father Zang refused to represent the administration's side of the issue." 
"We aren't looking to get anybody. We are looking to be well informed. That's what this university is about," Healy said, adding, "We have a right, even more so a respon­sibility, to be informed." 

Th~ Obscrver/Chalcanya Panchal
Churchill lives FormerNotre DamestudentMark Grimsich relives the earlydays ofSir Winston Churchill during his onem.anplayabout theformer English prime minister. Grimsicb perfonned last night at Saint Mary's. 
WANTED! 
Any person with no sense of humor 
WE CAN MAKE YOU LAUGH! 
April27 at 6:00pm Engineering Auditorium 

$25 reward to anyone who doesn't laugh 
*sign ups at Rock du Lac for those who wish to part1cipote 1n the show 
$2.00 per ticket Tickets at Rock du Lac 



Tuesday, April 23, 1985 -page 5 




ND must drop defensive, posture on Catholicism 
In the PACE report, the document that preports to raise Notre Dame to the status ofa major university, the committee takes special pride in the Univesitv's Catholic character and is concerned for its continuation. 
The document states a caveat, however, to prevent a slavish idolatry to Catholic tradition and teachings. "The responsiblity is to re-
Michael Ialacci 

guest column 
member on the one hand," the committee states, "that great wisdom resides within the Catholic tradition itselfand, on the other, that freedom for individuals to inquire and to criticize is essential if the tradition is to grow and be faithful to the Catholic vision ofGod." 
Unfortunately for the University and Ameri­can Catholicism, Notre Dame as an institution does not provide a forum for dialogue where Catholicism can be legitimately and intellec­tually critiqued and challenged. Instead, Notre Dame has maintained a defensive posture, shielding Catholic theology from any rebuttals. Does anyone recall a speaker extoll­ing the merits of birth control and con­traceptives, defending pro-abortion or speculating on the virtues ofwomen clergy? 
Such a forum, however, is necessary. 
First, it supplies the University with a liberal atmosphere necessary for education. To remain ignorant ofsociety's liberal currents is to remain uneducated. 
Second, it allows debate and argument over 
Catholic stands on contemporary issues. A great university must be engaged in the great problems ofits day. As a great Catholic univer­sity, Notre Dame's mission is to correlate the Kingdom of God with contemporary society, to mold a renewed Catholicism for a changing world with unique problems based on Catho­lic tradition but not slavishly patronizing cul­tural anachronisms. 
Third, it provides adequate defense for the Catholic viewpoint. If Notre Dame is to defend her views she must do so in a dialogue that allows opposing viewpoints. 
Logical defense means not only demonstrating the soundness of one's argu­ment but the weakness ofan opponent's argu­ment as well. Let Mario Cuomo's address be a paradigm for future liberal dialogues. His words sparked a dialogue that surpassed his prese,ce. 
Perhaps a lecture series should be initiated with liberal viewpoints followed by rebuttal. Such speakers shall revitalize the liberal as well as Catholic character of the University. 
It would baa further disservice to the Uni­
versity's students not to be introduced to 
liberal arguments and persuasions they shall ~ 
encounter in mainstream society. Ifstudents 
are not exposed to them in the supportive 
atmosphere of faith, the students will be at a 
loss to respond later. Notre Dame students, as 
adults confirmed in the Spirit, are commis­
sioned to evangelize and defend the Catholic 
faith. Students need to know what others 
believe to be persuasive. 

While remaining secluded from contem­
rary liberal currents of thought, Notre Dame remains relatively indifferent to one of con­temporary Catholicism's main tenets: ecumenism. Vatican II expressed this spirit in its Decree on Ecumenism, "We must come to understand the outlook of our separated brethren. Study is absolutely required for this, and should be pursued with fidelity to truth and in a spirit ofgoodwill." 
Instead of carrying on an interreligious dialogue, Notre Dame has chosen isolation. Notre Dame does not celebrate a weekly non­denominational service. Notre Dame does not host a continuing dialogue with other Chris­tian religions. While Campus Ministry is sup­portive ofother religions, they remain outside the mainstream of Notre Dame. Notre Dame should be at the vanguard of Vatican II idealism and participate in the spirit of ecumenism. 
A continued dialogue within and without the faculty should be instituted. Scholars, clergy, theologians, historians and activists from other Christian religions (as well as other world religions, including Judaism) should be invited to present their theological, pastoral, ethical and liturgical views. Such is­sues as the sacraments, married clergy, birth control, divorce and papal authority should be discussed. 
Dialogue is necessary for a better under­standing between faiths, and understanding leads to brotherhood. Ifstudents are children ofVatican II, they are to carry out the work of ecumenism in their daily lives. They must be taught to admire and understand other religions. If Notre Dame does not, she will 
render a great disservice to her students and 
wound the ecumenical movement at large. 
While participating in these dialogues, 
Notre Dame must maintain its Catholic 
character. One way Notre Dame attempts to 
do this is by virtually inundating the faculty 
with Catholics. Such a response, however, 
may be an irrational reaction to a more 
ecumenical composed faculty. 
Notre Dame must maintain a core of ded­
icated Catholics on on the faculty. Yet it 
would be absurd to have a "faculty in ·which 
dedicated and and committed Catholics 
predominate," as the PACE report suggests. It 
would stultify the inter-university ecumenical 
dialogue and alienate the Protestant minority. 
Prominent Protestam (and other non­
Catholic) scholars would no longer be at­
tracted here, and those here may leave in 
disillusion. 
Such was the case for Stanley Haurwaus, the 
prominent Protestant theologian no longer 
felt comfortable and was wooed by Duke. 
Notre Dame can not afford to lose such 
scholarship or make a mockery of the 
ecumenical spirit. 
Notre Dame must maintain its Catholic 
character, yet she should not be so paranoid 
to preclude honest and reasonable dialogue 
with liberal and Protestant ideas. Only then 
can Notre Dame be a great Catholic univer­
sity, both Catholic and universal. 
Michael Ialacci is a sophomore in tbeArts & Letters Science Honors Program at Notre Dame. 



P.O. BoxQ 
Carroll rector last of vanishing breed at ND 
DearEditor: 
One of the last ofa vanishing breed here at 
Notre Dame has stepped down. 

I do not live in Carroll Hall, but I have been fortunate enough to know Father Steve Gib­son. His resignation came as no surprise to me. Under the circumstances, it was only a matter of time. But it is still a tragedy that should not go unnoticed. 
Gibson is extremely unorthodox as a rec­tor. He manages to be friendly and fun to be around while still holding a position of respect and authority. He lives with his stu­dents, not just among them, as an intimate part of the Carroll community. However, a.-; the heart of this University slowly grows colder, the rector is viewed more as a babysitter -an extension of the long disciplinary arm of the 
Doonesbury 

administration. 

It is a sadly narrow, paranoid and, I dare say, 
un-Christian way ofdealing with students that 
only serves to constantly widen the gap bet­
ween "us" and "them.'' Gibson was a breath of 
fresh air, a rebel from this attitude. He helped 
to restore some ofmy faith in this University. I 
thank him for this. And I hope I graduate 
before that spirit fades completely. 
joseph Basque Sarin Hall 



Campus thanked for its response to charity ball 
DearEditor: 

We would like to thank the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's family for all their support in making the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Charity Ball to benefit the people of Ethiopia a success. From the moment of its conception as a dream shared by a few, the ball has provided impetus for many to give something of themselves to others. The response was what had been hoped-a Family Response to the Crisis in Ethiopia. 
Those who worked and gave so much energy to the realization ofthis dream should be commended as well as those who sup­ported the effort through attendance, dona­tions and prayer. Thank you Notre Dame and St. Mary's! With the charity ball you showed that you cared enough to respond as an entire community to the needs ofyour brothers and sisters. 
A special thanks should be extended to the residence halls, whose support and en­thusiasm was the core of our response. As each family responds to crisis in a particular way, each residence hall responded with donations, banners and special intentions. The money raised by this very special effort will be sent as soon as it has been counted. We hope to have raised well over SB,OOO in direct relieffunds for the people ofEthiopia. 
Garry Trudeau 
A very special thanks must be given to Fat­her Dave Porterfield, our advisor. He guided us from a few students with a dream to a vast network of efficiency and organization. His concern constantly kept us aware ofour goals -a family outreach to our brothers and sisters in Ethiopia. Without his continual support and advice the dream shared by many could have merely flickered and been extinguished by our own worries. 
Again, a very sincere thanks to the Notre 
• Dame and St. Mary's family. The charity ball was an extravaganza in response to human starvation. It was not a mere material ex­travaganza, but an extravaganza of people joined together in human concern. Thank you for taking the leap with us to respond in one small way to the spirit of Our Lady's Univer­sity. 
DannyHarrison, chairman Anne Marie Finch, executive secretary Leslie Gordon,publicity chairman 
Quote of the day 

"Never in the field of 
hu~confUct~so 
much owed by so many to so few." 
Winston Cburcbi/1 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-tn·Chtef Sarah E. Ham•lton Busmess Manager Dav•d Stephen1tch 
Managtng Edttor. _. . . Amy Stephan Adverttstng Manager . _ . Anne Culligan
The Obser11er tS the Independent newpaper published by the students of the 
News Edtlor . . Kt:1lh Hamson Jr. Controller_ . Btll H1ghducneck
Uni11ers1ty of Notre Dan...: du Lac and Satnt Mary's College It does not necessarily 
News Edttor. . Dan McCullough Systems Manager. Mark B. Johnson
reflect the pol1c1es of the .1dmtntstrat1on of e1ther institution. The news IS reported as 
Satnt Mary's Execultve Edt tor_ Theresa Guanno ProduCtiOn Manager _ John A Mennell
accurately and as ObJeCitllely as poss1ble. Uns1gned ed1:orials represent the opin1on 
Sports Edttor. . Jeff BkJmb 
of a maJOrtty of the Ed1tor1al Board. Commentartes. letters and the lns1de Column 
Accent Edtfor . Mary Healy present the 111ews of ·their authors Column space IS a11ailable to all members of the Vtewpomt Edttor Joe Murphy 
community_ and the free express1on of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through letters. Photography Edttor Peter C Laches 
•s encouraged. Copy Chtef Frank L1p0 Founded November 3, 1966 



~------------------------~------­
~­







Accent 

Grand Slant isn't the only hit at Denny's 
T

his i~ the City. ~ou~ Ben~i. 
Its 2:30a.m., Fnday rught (morning doesn't start until you wake up). My partner and I are cruising up U.S. 31 for some nutri­tion. We pass Bob Evans, Naugles, Azar's, Golden...ah, never mind. Some people may like them, but we know where we want to go. We want to go where we can find "an outstanding value." We want to go where we have a nice variety of choices. We want to go where the service is usually fast and friendly. 
We want to go to Denny's. 
We've been to the other places, although we did hit Bob Evans during the day, and they just don't 

(' compare. Ofcourse, each does have ~ its benefits, but ifyou want to have a decent, sit-down meal with one or ~ more friends, you can't beat the 
Denny's atmosphere. They always told us that first 

~ 
~ 
impressions are important, so maybe that's why Denny's appealed 
~ 
to us so quickly. You see, one thing we hate is waiting in line, especially 
with drunk, obnoxious people.

( 
~ 
Needless to say, we were very impressed when we found that there were few lines. Granted, ~ Friday and Saturday nights can get ( crowded around 2 a.m., but usually 
r 
even the largest crowds are seated 
within five minutes. 

No lines are nice, but even we r know that ifthe service and food ( were bad, then we would be better ( offspending our already-depleted ( funds in a better way. This is not the ( case at Denny's, though. 
( 
Take the service, for instance. We've put up with the rude ~ waitress at Golden Bear and the 
( 
faceless voice at Naugles, so we 

( 
were really hoping to find a place 

( 
where we could be waited on by a 

( 
friendly person. That's why it was 

( 
so nice to discover Jeff the Waiter. 

( 
He's in California now, but he was a ( classic when he was waiting the r non-smoking section ofthe U.S. 31 
( 
Denny's. "Hey,Jeff," said one ofour com­

~ 
panions one night. "How did they

( 
get those pies (that are on display)

( 
to stand up on their sides?" You see,

r r 
( 
( 
r 
r 
~ 
( ( ( 
r 
( 


the displayed pies really do look like they're stuck to the cabinet 
wall. 
"We glue them there," cracked Jeff. What a kidder he was. We found out later that it was an optical illusion. Mirrors and stuff. 
Well, onceJeff left, we figured we might have to go elsewhere for our entertainment. But we've learned that most Denny's waiters and waitresses are friendly. There's no 
Jeff, but Cindy and Georgeanna are pretty close. 
We were also amazed at how fast these friendly people got us our food. I don't believe that, once we've ordered, it's ever taken more than 10 minutes to get our order. There have been a couple of times when service was not up to stan­dards, but that's rare. Our only complaint is that, sometimes, our waitress is being so friendly to other tables, that she'll sometimes forget about us after we've gotten our food. 
One guy once told us that he and his friends play "Rate the Waitress" · by rabing and lowering the blinds depending on the waitress' perfor­mance. Well, we've formulated our own test, called the "Salad Test." When someone at the table orders salad (more on food later), a good waitress will return with the salad before she returns with the other food. Almost every time we test a Denny's waitress, she passes this test. 
Well, we think you can see that the service is usually top rate, so we'll talk to you about the food for a second. We don't need to go into too much detail because almost everything on the menu ranges from "good" to excellent. 
Most Denny's discussion begins with the Grilnd Slam breakfast which consists of pancakes, two eggs, and your choice of bacon, sausage, or a combination of the two (four strips in any combina­tion). My partner likes the Slam because of its "outstanding value," but we'll talk about price later. Anyway, if you like breakfast like my partner, you'lllike the variety of 

choices ranging from hash browns 
to western omelets. 
On the other hand, ifyou don't like to eat breakfast before you go to bed (like me), you will be very happy with the choices. You can get a hamburger, a BLT, a club sandwich, a hot beefsandwich, grilled cheese, or just a salad or fries. Ifyou're real hungry, let me recommend theJumbo Denny's Combo. It's a large hamburger, fries and salad. (The salad is key because you get it to eat it before you get the meal -see "Salad Test.") And if that doesn't fill you up, you can always get dessert (the Brownie Supreme heads the list). Let it suffice to say that the food is even better than the service. 
With the good food and good 
service, it would seem obvious that 
the atmosphere has to be pretty 
good. They do play the world's 
most boring music over the 
speakers, but at least they turn the 
volume down. 
Ifyou are loud and rude late at night after a few drinks, you probably would be better offgoing to Naugles or Shirley's. But ifyou'd like to sit around and shoot the bull with your friends, or ifyou'd like to salvage something from a bad SYR date, Denny's is it. There probably are a few more townies at Denny's, but they are usually much less obnoxious than are Notre Dame students, and it makes the place look lived in. 
Enough said. All right, we know what you're probably saying: "What about the prices? I bet they're high to make up for the good service and food." 
Well, you're wrong. The prices, in general, are reasonable. The Grand Slam is indeed "an outstand­ing value" for fi2.69 and it goes on sale for $1.99 about every two months. The Jumbo Denny's Combo is S4.35 and is very filling. The sandwiches are not great, but good, values in the fi3.50 to $4.50 range. About the most expensive thing you can get late at night is the S5.95 steak dinner. Ifyou only have a few bucks, you can get the S2.1 0 grilled cheese. 
Very good service, great food and variety, nice civilized atmosphere, reasonable prices. Now you know why we always want to go to Denny's. 
It's too bad we're graduating in less than a month. 


Bob Evans in need of somE 
Restaurant review 


I
f you happen to stroll into Bob 
Evans Restaurant on U.S. 31 at 

about 2: 1 5 a.m. on a weekend, 
you will notice something 
seriously wrong. There are 
hardly any people there. No big 
deal, you say? Oh yes it is. The 
post-SYR crowd is not there. The 
county mounties are not there. 
There is a reason. 
Ifyou are going to do the job 

right you have to go all out. 
You cannot be a good, com­

petitive all-night restaurant by 
being open 24 hours only twice 
a week as Bob Evans is. The crew 
just is not used to working the 
late hours and h;,ndling the 
people who coiP.e in because 
they are doing it only on Friday 
and Saturday nights. 
One of the few advantages to visiting Bob's is that you won't have to wait for a table (although you may have to wait for awhile to be served). 
Great, so you're seated right away. It probably won't be much longer before you will want to leave. The interior is overly spacious and overly cute. Down­on-tne-tarm rea-ana-wnne checked tables and colonial wallpaper may be fine for Sun­day brunch, but they're not what 
most people want to see at 2 
a.m. 

The waitresses are courteous, but they are not used to the late-night mentality ofstudents who frequent the after-hours eateries. Ofcourse, it takes a good sense of humor to deal with working the graveyard shift, but it seems these waitresses lack this aptitude. 
You may find the menu selec­
tions more appealing than the 
atmosphere (ifyou can excuse 
the obnoxious menu cover), 
and, in fact, the food is palatable. 
Ifyou're very hungry, the 
dinner menu will attract your 

Following an SYR, two couples diM out at Azar'sfor a late snack. 


Above: Azar~ is a favorite late 
night study break for many Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Left: The breakfast buffet is an 
excellent choice at Azar's. 

Photos by Greg Rashid 


southern hospitality 
attention with five charbroiled 
items and six "traditional" 
dishes, ranging from the S9.9'5 
full slab of ribs to the S4.7'5 Bob 
Evans sausage steak. 
Ifyou're only looking for a sandwich, you may be in the wrong establishment. The menu lists only two hamburgers and 
eight other sandwiches. The best deal probably is the S 1.1 5 grilled cheese sandwich (dill spear included). Hamburgers are not Bob's forte, though. Ifyou like plain hamburgers, you can choose between small (five ounces) or large ("a full half pound"), but don't ask for anyth­ing exotic (you know, such as bacon or mushrooms). Ifyou have a sense of adventure, you might want to try "a delicious farm-raised fillet ofcatfish" sandwich ( S 1.9'5). 
If you didn't have enough to drink at your SYR, you're out of luck, here. Most late-night resaurants offer a bargain-size soft drink, but at Bob's, one size fits all ( 12 ounces for 55 cents). 
Okay, so you don't want a sandwich. How 'bout some fried mush? Really. It's on the menu (and you better hope it doesn't make its way omo your plate). This cornmeal concoction is the only extraordinary item on the breakfast menu. The breakfast fare is good, however, and the 
restaurant is famous for its three 
kinds ofsausage: patties, links and smoked. The biggest break­fast combination includes two eggs, hash browns, sausage, bis­cuits and honey for S3.90 ·no savings over the a la carte price. 
Now you're finished. It was a pretty good meal, and you want to sit and talk to your com­panions. You probably don't want to look at your dirty plates, though. Unfortunately, you may be forced to sit with your dirty dishes because your waitress did a disappearing act after serving your meal. Ifyou want dessert (or enough Coke to quench your thirst), you'll have to yell across the dining room or get it from the kitchen yourself. 
The desserts, although priced under S1, are not very exciting. Ifyou crave chocolate, you'll have to hit vendo-land when you get back to campus, because there is none on the menu. Not that you'll get a chance to see the menu again, anyway. 
The food, on the whole, is acceptable, and the prices fit most students' budgets. The atmosphere, however, is about as pleasant as sitting in your freezing car in the Naugles parking lot on a cold South Bend morning that reeks ofethanol. 
Tuesday, April23, 1985-page 6 -page 7 


Smiles, service and sandwiches all at Azar's Big Boy restaurant 
Restaurant review 


hould he stay or should he go?
S He should stay. 
Big Boy restaurants across the 
country, including the Azar's Big 
Boy on U.S. 3 l in Roseland are 
polling customers on whether the 
company mascot, a 1950s 
suspenders-dad boy, should hit the 
unemployment line. Anyone going 
to the 'Zar's at 3 a.m. would 
welcome this famous landmark and 
the quality all-night restaurant that 
it represents. 
Azar's has become a favorite for 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­
dents looking for a midnight study 
break or a post-SYR snack. On a 
busy Friday or Saturday night you 
may find yourself waiting for a table 
along with the rest of the post-SYR 
crowd. It is a worthwile wait. 
As you approach the door you get 
a first glimpse ofwhat is on the 
menu. A large orange and white 
sign proclaims "Steaks, Shakes, 
Pancakes." 
However, the while-you-wait reading material is not limited to this sign and neither is the menu. A sign on the door clearly outlines the service policy of the restaurant, a refreshing break from the tradi­tional "No shirt, no shoes, no service." 
Three major newspapers can be purchased outside, although supplies may be limited by 3 a.m. In the large and comfortable waiting area inside, you will find a map of the greater metropolitan South Bend area. What more could you ask for in the early hours of the morning? 
The dining area ofthe restaurant is a pleasant combination of earthy tones, glass and plants. Lots of real, live plants. Elevator music fills the dining room at a comfortable volume. The tables and booths are 
standard family-restaurant issue, but 
the general atmosphere is clutch. 
Chances are good that your 
waitress will be friendly and com­
petent and she may even be enter­
taining. Certainly she will be used 'to dealing with the late-night 
humor and senseless behavior of 
college students. 
Most menu items will be served at any hour. There is a full line of dinners from S4.SO to S6.70. However, most late-night appetites call for sandwiches, breakfast items or desserts. 
The menu lists 19 sandwiches, including six hamburgers ranging from the S1.65 Big Boy Sandwich to the 52.70 Bacon Burger with Swiss Cheese. · 

'' Chances are good that your waitress will be used to dealing with the late-night humor and senseless behavior of college students." 
The sandwiches are both deli­cious and a terrific value, especially when side orders are thrown in. A large Coke tops off the meal, a huge thirst quencher for only 80 cents. 
The highlight ofthe breakfast menu is the Breakfast and Fruit Bar. Its all-you-care-to-eat fare includes sausage, eggs, bacon, potatoes, gravy, buscuits, pastries and fresh fruit. It opens at ll p.m. on Friday and Saturday nights and remains open until 2 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday, but it is open only from 6 
a.m. to 11 a.m. on weekdays. At S3.99, it is a filling deal. 
The regular breakfast menu has seven breakfasts with different combinations and prices from Sl.50 for two eggs and toast to S5.09 for steak and eggs. Azar's Famous Pancakes are fantastic. The orange juice, while sometimes suffering from refrigerator ex­posure, is the largest amount for the money at S1.30 for a halfliter, the only carafe of orange juice available 
on "the 
strip." ~ 
0 

The menu lists fresh strawberry 
pie as "the dessert that made Azar's 
famous," so much so that 
sometimes the demand for it ex­
cedes the supply. But don't despair. 
The hot fudge ice cream cake, a 
sandwich ofdevil's food cake and 
vanilla ice cream smothered in hot 
fudge, is said to be "mmmmmmm," 
and it is. Several other pies, 
cheesecake and ice cream round 
out the tempting dessert menu. 
Overall, the menu selections are 
well-prepared, well-garnished and 
served promptly with a smile. 
There are a few drawbacks to eating 
at the 'Zar's, such as the possibility 
ofhaving to wait for a table, no 
bagels on the menu (although they 
have been spotted on the Breakfast 
Bar) and the restrooms' ques­
tionable cleanliness (not to men­
tion the fact that the elevator music 
is deafening in there). 
But Alex and Dave Azar have established a loyal crowd offre­quent late-night customers, includ­ing members of the local law enforcement agencies (always excellent judges ofall-night eateries). There are many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who wouldn't think ofgoing anywhere else after 2 a.m. 
It really is no wonder. Where else can you get eight ounces offried smelt for only S4.95 at 4 a.m.? 


r ... 


Sports Briefs 
The ND Women's Soccer Club wm be 
meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Breen-Phillips 1V lounge. For more information, call Kathy at 283-3605.-Tbe Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will be meeting tonight at 8 
p.m. in room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Hall to discuss the Mid­west Sprints. An officers meeting will precede the general meeting at 7:30p.m. -The Observer 
Gene Corrigan, Notre Dame athletic director, and Donald Barrett ofthe sociology department will discuss problems in collegiate athletics tonight at 9 p.m. on "Speaking of Sports" on WVFI AM-64. Listeners may contribute their comments and ques­tions by calling cohosts Chuck Freeby and Vito Gagliardi at 239­6400. -Tbe Observer 
The AnTostal golftournament""ill be held today at 11 a.m. at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Any pairs who are interested in playing in the tournament should call 283-2021 or 283-2013. An entrance fee of S1 will be charged, and prizes will be awarded. -Tbe Observer 
AnTostal mud volleyball schedules are posted for the games to be played today and tomorrow. Players are reminded to advance their team's name when they win. For more information, callJanet at 277-3967 or Matt at 283-2465.-Tbe Obser­
ver 

The Irish Guard will hold an organizational meeting Thursday at 4 p.m. on Green Field. Anyone who is interested in trying out should attend. For more information, call Chris at 283­1783. -Tbe Observer 
The ND/SMC Gymnastics Club banquet has 
been rescheduled for Friday at 6 p.m. All past and current members are invited. For location, call Tim Sennet at 283·3308.-The Observer 
..

~ ---.~ ·------~ -·-'~----------------------------------------..... 
Tuesday, April 23, 1985 -page 8 
Men's tennis team finishes third in 
Midwestern City Conference meet 
By CHUCK FREEBY in singles play during his three enough on some of the key points to Sports Writer matches in the tourney, disposing of . !Joost the team in the standings. 
Oral Roberts' Miguel Olvera in 

ST. LOUIS, MO. -For Notre Dame, proper straight-set fashion, 7-5, 6-2. its third-place finish in last "Mike played well, but he's done weekend's Midwestern City Con­that all year," said Fallon of the 
ference tennis tournament here at St. Louis University was like staying at a Holiday Inn. There were no un­pleasant surprises. 
However, the strength of the Irish netters' finish was a pleasant surprise to the team and coach Tom Fallon. Notre Dame finished with 59 points, only 12 points behind cham­pion Oral Roberts and a mere two points behind a strong Oklahoma City club. 
"Realistically, we had to expect to finish third, because Oral Roberts and Oklahoma City have such good teams," noted Fallon. "But we were very pleased with the way we played and our finish. We probably should have come in second, but we had a tough break in the doubles semi­finals when we lost all three matches in three sets." 
Nevertheless, the Irish would never have been in such a position of contention if it were not for some outstanding individual perfor­mances. Senior Mike Gibbons, who has been a steady performer throug­hout his four years at Notre Dame, finally found his reward by taking the title in the number-two singles division. Gibbons did not lose a set Miami native, who is now 18-4 on the year. "He was clearly the top player in his field, and he deserved to win." 
Meanwhile, freshman Paul Daggs made his presence known in the league by capturing the crown in number-six singles. Daggs had a little more difficulty earning his championship, needing three sets to beat Scott Joiner of Oral Roberts in the title tilt, 5-7; 7-5, 6-3. 
"Paul played some very good ten­nis for us this weekend, and we've been pleased with the job he's done all year at number-six for us," com­mented Fallon. "He's one of our young players that we were worried about at the start of the season, but he showed this weekend that he has come around." 
Senior Dave Obert turned in a solid performance at fourth singles with a second-place finish, while freshman Dan Walsh added to the Irish scoreboard by finishing third. Joe Nelligan and Tom Grier rounded out the scoring in the singles depart­ment with fourth-place finishes at fir~t and fifth singles respectively. 
While the Irish played well in the doubles, they just didn't play well 
The first tandem of Gibbons and Walsh seemed to be cruising along in their semifinal match with Flanagan and Petrie of Evansville after winning the first set, 6-3. But the pair of Aces came back with vic· 
tories of 7-6 and 6-4  to  take the  
match.  
Nearly  the  same  scenario  
developed  with  Notre  Dame's  

second doubles team of Obert and Grier as they jumped out to a 6-4 win in the first set. However, the South African duo of Grant Mac­Quilken and Leet Sommerfield of Oral Roberts came from behind with a pair of 6-3 victories to win the last two sets. 
Nelligan and Daggs, the third irish pair, engaged themselves in a real battle with the team of Stephenson and Radas ofOklahoma City. Despite a valiant effort, the Irish team fell 7­5, ·s-7, 7-6, losing 7-5 in the tiebreaker of the deciding set. 
"At the beginning of the year, we were worried about having to put together three new doubles teams, and this weekend shows why," remarks Fallon. "If we would have had a little more experience, like the teams we were playing, we probably could have won those matches. We still played well enough to win, though." 

fht! Obsen•er Notre Dame offit.·e. I~Katt·d on the third Ooor of Lafortune Student Cc:ntc:r, an:epts dassified ad\'ertisin~ from ':1 a.m. until -l p.m.. Monday 
through Friday. Tbe Ubsen•er Saint Mary's offk·t·. IIKatnl on the third Ooor of Haggar College Cc:nter. au:epts dassifieds from 1.2::\0 p.m. until -~p.m .. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline: for nt'XHiay dassifit·d~ i~ 5 p.m. All t.·las~ifinls must be prepaid. either in person or by mail. Charge i~ I 0 n·nts per fi\'t" t·harac· 




Classifieds 
ters r da ·. 

Found: April 5, calico female cat at SMC. Pan time job! Need help laying sod, HELP!! I NEED 1 GRAD TICKET--WILL SM~NDSUMMERPROGRAMS­THE DAY YOU HAVE ALL BEEN Call2n-2367 to claim. $4.00/h call277-7660 PAY S$!! CALL SUE 3843 PLEASE!! IRELAND, LONDON, PARIS, ROME WAITING FOR HAS ARRIVED!II Yes.NOTICES ····················································•·········· LIMITED NUMBERS OF OPENINGS JILL HANSEN (better known as the SKI GLASSES LOST .... in lawn area bel­RIDE NEEDED TO PURDUE UNIVER­DESPERATELY NEED GRAD TICKETS AVAILABLE UNTIL MAY 15. FOR INFO DATING MACHINE) is 21 today!!' ween LEMANS HALL and SMC SITY leave Friday afternoon call Tom PLEASE CALL JJ 1703 CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK-284-4460 Express birthday wishes to her and you 
PARKING LOT. Please return ·cause x3082 OR 272-3721. might just get to experience a hnte ol what TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8H7 
these glasses were not my property '!!! it is like to have a real date!!! WE LOVE 
The MIRRORED SKI GLASSES brand HELP! I NEED GRAD TIX! CALL PETE HELP! NEED 2 GRAD TIX'$ Call Nancy YOU. THE HORNDOGS (better known as WORDPROCESSING-277-41045. 
name resembles CELAIS ·-but I'm not 1856 at234-7319 SUMMER HOUSING NEEDED Two guys CONDEMNERS OF MANKIND!) pos~bve .... These SKI GLASSES can be who like South Bendso much that they've Word Processing and Typing Resumes. 
eBSily identified as BLUE with a little RED HOUSESITIING WANTED BY 27 Y.O. decided they're stay;ng are looking for an Attention N.D. Band Mambera: Letters. Papers, Documents Call 234· and WHITE trim, and twisted wire replac­GRAD STUDENT FOR THE SUMMER. inexpensive house or apartment for this VOTE 2380 ing the small screws next to each eye !I! WILL DO YARD WORK. CALL277-8549 summer. If you have one or if you've even SUSAN SAKER 
PLEASE CALL 283-3437 or RETURN heard of such an animal, please call Dan FOR TYPING-CALL ANDREA-283-3880 Ill 1625.
PERSONALS

THE GLASSES to the LEMANS HALL BAND SECRETARY 1985-1986 
DESK (or) Notre Dame LOST and Polls open until8 p.m.EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
FOUND in the Administration Building.
MRS. COt<:ER, 233-7009. . FOR SALE OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR,
Please respond before this weekend !!!! 
CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., JEFF HERMAN-YOUR TAN'S
Thank you. To the Putzes: Now I am your worst Be Smart!! Sell your texts and paperbacks ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. LOOKING PRETTY GOODII HAVE A 
nightmare. The King.

for S$ belore the rush!! M-F ,BIT 12-4 pm. Be smartt Sell your dass books before the NICE TIME AT THE PICNIC? Love, Your 
We also carry a wide auor1ment ol Clift rush. Mon.·Fri between 12 and 4. Save$ Secret Admirer OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS can pick upLOST. NAVY BLUE MEN'S SWIMMING YOCIUS is Atrocious. 
and Monarch Notes. PandorBS on paperbacks. Fri: 3-6; 50/ oH used: 20/ An Tostal Booklets all this week between 
WINDBREAKER. LEFT ON COAT RACK 
Books,937 So.Bend Ave.,1 block from oH new. PANDORA·s BOOKS, 937 So 3 and 5 p.m. in the An Tostal Office.
IN SOUTH DINING HALL ON 4/18. IF HELPII KEVIN PURCELL-wetting the bed is not 
Corby's. Bend Ave. 233-2342 located within the student oHices on the
FOUND PLEASE CALL ROLAND AT NEED 1 OR 2 TIX, TOGETHER OR how it1s done second floor of LaFortune. 
2165. 
SEPARATE.

6 UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE. NO­PLEASE CALL MARY~l AT 1276 OR TDKSA90SATIENTION!! ATIENTION!! Anyone in­MEMORIAL AREA, EXCELLENT CON­
To the three girls who gave me a ride 12M; KEEP TRYING!! 5FOA 510 Yo CLAIRE ANN WILLIAMs-Happyterested in being a part of FRESHMAN DITION 233-9728 232-4528 
home on Friday night(! was walking on ALL THIS WEEK Birthday!!!!!! yeer waa
Thla graet.
ORIENTATION 1985 there wiM be a man­

Juniper). Thanks alot!! But, I might need
datory meeting April 24 New Orleans Attention: Faculty,Grad-students & ONLY AT ROCK DULAC, Hope next yeer Ia just aa run!! Luv,your help again!! Could you pleaae check 
HELP!t I AM IN DIRE NEED OF ONE
Room. La Fortune 17:00pm. Present com· Undergraduates House for sale 1 mile FIRST FLOOR LA FORTUNE lard. 
your car and see if I left my green 1.0. 
MORE GRADUATION TICKET"! LIMIT 10 mittee members must attend. away from campus, totaUy remodeled A
holder in it? It has my 1.0 . credit card, and 
great tax deduction for you or the parents. PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T So. What's that girl's name who fell off her some other important stuH. Thanks again. COME THROUGH WITH THIS DEAL!! pedestoollast weekend?!? 
Bookstore basketball player needed to Terms land contract or conventional. Call 
My number is 3486. 
PLEASE HELP OUT A POOR FELLOW Theo MajOra and othera lntereetedplay for Tequila White Lightning If 287-4107 for appt. 
SENIOR, AND CALL JEFF AT 3859. are invited to ATIENTION·-THIS WEEKEND IS THE 
at 2185. Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 An Informal DlacuMion VOLUPTUOUS CLAIRE WILLIAMS. HAPPY BIRTHDAY haven't played and interested, Call Mike through the U.S. government? Get the with BIRTHDAY. EVERYONE IS WELCOME
,....-...........__·_··___, I FOR RENT
.....__.. ROBIN JADOWN Prof...or William Storey TO GIVE HER A KISS ON THIS "HAPPY 
facts today! Call 1-312·742·1142 Ext. We recently found a picture o1 you in a WednMday, April 24 at 10 pm DAY". Love, 2nd floor Lewis.
7316 bed.(Not unusual) Ahhough the bed isn't 341 O'Shag 
FOR SALE: couch and rug, a decorators in 11 SMC dorm.Where could it be? Congratulations to Vincenz11 and Krieg.
LOST/FOUND I StrBJghtmaleneededf~·~~~·;;p~~~~t 
Grace? No thats not a couch. Alumni? No
delight! Must &ee to apprectate , call Tom The match SUITED you both well. Both ol near NOTRE DAME Close to everything. or Mike at 1000. thats not the quad. Maybe the Americana WE, THE FRIENDS OF you have quite a POOL of talent. OPening May 1st or thereabouts for sum­or the Days Inn or even your room this MARK E. WORSCHEH (A.K.A. MELON­........,....
LOST: General Bio text was removed mer or longer . Prefer ptolesaional . grad ·····························'· ························· ...... 

summer. Looks pretty RISI(Y RJ! Maybe HEAD) SLAM DUNK CONTESTfrom the far right side of main carrels on MOVING SALE Deek I Chair, Gold car-
student , or medical type . Pnced out o1 DiHon. No you only have friends there. AREPLEASEDTOANNOUNCE SLAM DUNK CONTEST
the 1Oth floor of the Ubrary Wed. evening. pet Aemnent, Larva TV Stand, Oil
this world. Call233-5853 & ask for TIM. Were pretty curious. If anyone else is also HIS PROMOTION FROM
The return of thia book ilextremely impor­Palntinge w/Fra-. Dlshae. Call 23• why don't you give her a call at 284-4457. CAPT. EXTENSION TO MAJOR EXTEN­Come watch Notre Dame students imper· tant as I have a test next week' Calf 3615 5471 De~. 234-!4124 Evenlnp &-10
ROOM MATE WANTED to share NO apt Why your at it uk her out for a date. She SION eonate their favorite basketball starsASAP II found! 
for 85-86. Calf Tim.2546. 
never says no. Love ya RJ. CONGRATS, MEL! Wednesday April 24 behind the
For Sale: 1973 Ford pick-up. N.R. 6­La.! navy blue pull-over windbreaker cytinder Calf 284-4221 Bookstore at 2 p.m. 
Staying in S. Bend for the summer? We
made by Jos.Bank.Loat on Saturday at Dave Robbins Mangod Junior MADDOG 
are looking for subleuen for June, July, 
Yo South Quad We chalenge you to be Don't miu the action
the tennis courts.If found~ call Joe FOR SALE: 1o-Speed bicycle, Schwinn MADOOG MADOOG MADDOG The
and half of Aug at Turtle Creek. Call Kath­on th• fieldhouse maN at 3:00pm on Wed­813498. Veraity. Call Steve 3830. Hideous Saga Goes On
leen at 2596 or 2627. WiN negotiate price. 
nesday the 23rd. Prove that you deserve 
end ad 
tobecaled Domllf'l! The Zoo HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THELa.t: Blue jean jacket at a off-campus The second annual
FOR SALE: NYLON JOGGING SWEAT· YELLOW SUB 272-4453 MO-TH 8-11pm party on 3/29. Pleue call Jean at 284-SMCNIC
PANTS AND TOPS. IN BLUE AND REO. 
FR-SA8pm-1am
5024. 

CALL MIKE I232-0904 AFTER 6:00 PM. is coming eoon. $20 EA. OR $35 SET. 
LOST: •.. about 4 months ago. 1 pair of WANTED ga.... with brown rim in a gray cae. If GOOD LUCK, FRANCES DEFREITAS JOHN ROMNEY YOU ARE NOT A
JIM TABOR CORE COURSE 
found~ call2700. Being Band President is almoat u excit· WENCH!!
Player of the week:I NEED ORAD. TIXI ing aa being my roommate. 
Mau!'Mn Bechmann
Pleue call LiN at 3544. PAUL WARREN--HAPPY 22!! LOVE


TICKETS 

FOUND: One women'a high IChool clua To my COLOR BUND MYSTERY YOU,J. ling with tnitiall MCH inaide. Found in EASTER BUNNY-I don't know who you MeCandleu H.. SMC. Call Julie 284· HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX, HEY SENIORS' NEED GRADUATION are, but thanks for the Easter balket. AATlSTS 5458. TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE OESPARATELY!!!!! WILL PAY HUGE ·Sharon E. HELP!! To the three girls who gave me a PAYING JOB! 
CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP BUCKS!! PLEASE CALL MARIA ISERN-ride home on Friday night (I wu walking .1 Farley Hal desires pen and ink. Cal LOST:8lUE NIKE NYLON RUNNING TRYING!! 4304. on Juniper around 3:30) I to.t my green Amy 4068 for details. PANTS AT LYONS B-BALL COURTS ON 1.0. holder! Could you pleese check your SUN. APRIL 14, 1985. CALL JOHN 1134. SALES ENGINEER, Uti~ty and lncllatrial HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX. ATTENTION SENIORS ONLY cat and see if it's there? Thanks please TESS BABY, WE'RE STILL WATCHING 
Boilers. Fluid Bed Boilers, ~on TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE check your cat and see II it'l there? YOU ...... . Systems. Wate Incineration, Pulverizllf'l CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP PRE-ANTOSTAL BASH Thanks! 3486. 
LOST and StokiQ-Riley Stoller Corp., call TRYING!! TO 2 WILD MEN: SALTY DOG AND ONE NO DEEP BLUE JACKET IN 312-692-5050 WEDNESDAY, APRIL24 9-1, MARGIE!MARECHY' You better believe DAVES.. THANX FOR A WILD TIME­NORTH DINING HALL. PLEASE it'S MIKE HALL'S 21st birthday. Girls, THE 2 WILD SHREW5-A&K
GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED! Five SMC CLUBHOUSE RETURN TO 715 FLANNER. NO ?'S Ride or Riders Needed to lndtanapolte of them. For real money. Calf 288· 0330. $3 ALL YOU CAN DRINK, 21 ID RE­COfl'l8 to 330 Keenan and watch hie Btg ASKED. 4/26 Cal3880 Please QUIRED Macoo' THANK YOU, ST. JUDE. 
The Observer. Tuesday, April23, 1985-page 9 
One more day to Sweet 16. • • 
SMC softball team 
Bookatore Tour1111ment Fifth Round 
Toellly'a GamM 
Stepan 1 

5:00-Phi Runna Gunna v. Tofu Vegetables I 
6:15-Byrne's By-Products v. Showtime 
8tepan2 

5:00-Uncoachables v. Weethy's Warriors 
6:15-Josephus & the Ethiopian ... v. First Source Bank Travelling .. Stepan3 5:00-Rousseau's Noble Savages v. 4 Gringos & a Stump 6:15-Armed & Dangerous Ill v. WBBS Goes Off the Ajr 8tepan4 5:00-4 Fags & a Zahmbie v. The Chairmen of the Boards 6:15-Revenge of the Fun Bunch v. Mr. Coffey & the Non Dairy Creamers 
Bookatore II 5:00-Pee Wee & the Wee Bees v. Red Barons 6:15-Let's Go Crazyv. Revenge Factor 
Bookatore 10 5:00-Ed Smierciak & 4 Other Guys Baner... v. Keenan Inmates 6:15-4 Oingleberries&AKresgiev. Hawaii Five-0 Lyona 11 5:00-2 Dillon Sweetwater Dudes & 3 Tools .. v. Tequila White Ughtning 
6:15 -Nutmeggers v. Jimmy G. &the Spots 
Lyona 12 

5:00 -Dangling Manhood v. 5 Ethiopians Who 
Hunger To Win 6:15-Rhythm Method II v. Rhythm Method 
Fourth Round 
v..t..-day's ....utta 
Stepan 1 

Phi Runna Gunna over Dribbling Dyxz by 7 
Rousseau's Noble Savages over Don't Laugh by 7 
Byrne's By-Products over Fastest White Guy on Campus & 4 Orange... by 4 
Stepan2 

Tofu VegetabiM I over Big Black Mac Attack by 10 
Gringos & a Stump over 5 Horsemen ol the Apodaypse by 16 Josephus & the Ethiopian Shim-Sham over Flankin' Idiots by 5 Stepan3 The Uncoachables over That's Why They Call Us The Cruisers by 7 4 Fags & a Zahmbie over If It Weren't For Fat Girls Wed Never... by 4 Armed & Dangerous Ill over Lack of Originalityby B 
3Stepan4 

Weethy's Warriors over This Is a Dictatorship by 8 
The Chairmen of the Boards over Inspector Thomas & the Private Eyes by 3 Revenge of the Fun Bunch over Demented Door­mats by 14 Stepan 5 4 Dingleberries Looking for... over 4 Guys Who Still Wonder Why... by 2 Showtime over Phillips by 7 
••• lor Pizza LoYent 

EVERY MON.ttru THURS. &SAT. 11 tl 2 AJID TUESDAY DIIIEI4 Ill 
All the famous Hand-Tossed Pizzo 
you con eat plus a,, all you can eat 
SJ99 
Salad Extravaganza Bar, plus Bev­erage. 
••• lor Filla Loven! 

EVERY FRIDAY I.IIICh 11 to 2, Dima 4tD 8 
All you can eot Battered fried Perch, Deep Fried Potatoes, Vege-SJ99 
table, Roll and Salad Extrava­ganza Bar. 
Stepan& Nutmeggers over Gerry's Kids by 3 First Source Bank Travelling All-Stars. . . over 


has success on trip
Mixed Company. 22-20 
Dangling Manhood over Maladroits by 9 
Stepan7 

Rhythm Method over Return of the Oueef by4 
WBES Goes Off theAjr over Last Minute Entry by7 
Stepan a 

Revenge Factor over Five Architects by 4 
Mr. Coffey & the Non-Dairy Creamers over Paddle Goes to Russia by 8 Bookstore II Keenan Inmates over Runnin' & Gunnin' Benches by 10 
Tequila White Lightning over Pedi's Pirates by 19 
Hawaii F1ve-O over Slime by 5 
Bookatore 1 o Red Barons over Chicks Dig Us Now That We Ate Seniors by 11 Jimmy G. & the Spots over DSB's Half Again Their Original Size by 10 
Lyona 11 

FAO II over Pee Wee & the Wee8eesby4 
2 Dillon Sweetwater Dudes & ... over 4 People & A Short Fat Guy by 3 Rhythm Method II over The Intimidators by 2 Lyona 12 Ed Smierciak & 4 Other Guys Bener Than John 
Paxson over Cubs Lose! by 9 
5 Ethiopians Hungry To Win over 6 Shooters by 5 
Let's Go Crazy over Yank My Doodle. It's a Dandy by4 
Belles held a slim 5-4 lead going into

Saint Mary's track team runs. well the bottom of the sixth inning. This lead dissipated quickly, however, when Franklin's Dawn Privette
in weekend meet with St. Joseph's singled to center to start a rally. This 
By ANDREA LAFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's track team captured first place in three events yesterday at its second home meet of the season. The Belles, who were originally scheduled to face Indiana University-South Bend and Franklin College as well as St. joseph College, competed only against St.Joseph be­cuase the other two schools could not make the trip. 
Even with the reduced field, though, head coachJean Kerich was still pleased with the results of the meet held at Clay High School. 
"We did as well as could be ex­pected," said Kerich. "Franklin Col­lege and IUSB didn't show, so it was just us and St. joe." 
Senior Diane Hartwig received first place for her efforts in both the discus and shotput events, while sophomore Megan McMonigle took first place in the javelin. 
Barb Blanchette, a junior, took second place in the shotput and third place in the discus. Freshman Karen Walker, meanwhile, captured second place in the discus event and finished in third place in the shotput. 
In the 1500-meter race, freshman Cathy Kennedy came in second place to add to her third-place medal in the long jump, while classmate Julie Novak placed third in the 400­rneter. Another freshmnan, Monique Lemieux, finished third in the 3000­meter race. 

Mary Ann VanTassell added her name to the scorecard ofsuccess by placing third in the 5000-meter race, and McMonigle turned to the track to finish in third pl<!-ce in both the 100-and 200-meter races. 
Finally, Sophomore hurdler Cris Cox took third place in both the 100-meter and 3000-meter hurdle events, and Hartwig placed third in the javelin. 
Mary's Suess, who issued ten walks, 
was tagged with the loss. 
After this contest, head coach 
Scott Beisel seemed disappointed in 
his team's lack ofdefense. 
"We had five hits in the second 
game, but a combination of walks 
and mental errors got us into trouble 
and we were unable to score," said 
Beisel. "If our pitchers are on, our 
defense will usually strengthen it." 
"We've also had trouble hitting 
slower pitchers. In the first game we 
won against their number one 
pitcher. In the second game we 
couldn't adjust to the slower pitcher 
and we flew out." 
Against Oakland City on Saturday, 
the Saint Mary's pitchers were on 
target. 
In game one, Suess diplayed much 
more control on the mound against 
her opponents,striking out five and 
allowing only three walks for the 7-2 
victory. 
Sophomores Lorri White and 
Marge Reynolds each cracked run­
scoring doubles to help the cause. 
In game two, freshman pitcher 
Betty Mihalik also turned in a strong 
peformance. She was backed up by a 
couple of extra-base hits by McGin­
nis, and a three·run Belles' rally in 
the seventh inning. 
Still, Saint Mary's • found itself 
down 5-3 going into the bottom of 
the seventh. Lead-off hitter Theiss 
got things started once again for the 
Belles with a single. She was pushed 
to second when Suess drew a walk, 
and she scored on sophomore Sue 
McCrory's single. Nolan then 
singled to load the bases. 
Enter McGinnis. 
The centerfielder ripped a triple deep to center to bring home the needed runs for the triumph. 
Beisel, happy with the clutch hit­ting, was even more pleased with the pitching on Saturday. 
"We've been working on improv­ing our pitching, and Betty (Mihalik) and Elaine (Logsdon) came through," said Beisel. "They were in control. Both have limited ex­perience. Elaine had never pitched before this season, but she was really on." 
Tomorrow the Belles will play host to Manchester College, a team also looking to gain important wins in order to qualify for the state tournament. Action begins at 3:30 p.m. 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Over the weekend, the Saint Mary's softball team traveled to Franklin, Ind., Where it took two games from Oakland City, 7-2, and, 6-5, on Saturday before splitting with a strong Franklin CoUege team on Sunday, winning the opener, 7-5, but dropping the nightcap, 6-0. 
For the Belles, the weekend was merely an extension of the solid play of the squad lately. 
Last Thursday the Belles downed Grace College on the Lancers home . ,field, I 5-13, before falling, 6-5, in the 
second game. Saint Mary's record now stands at the 13-6 mark. In the first game on Sunday against fellow NAIA member Franklin, the 
was followed by two consecutive Saint Mary's errors allowing Privette to score and tie up the game. 
Saint Mary's, though, came out swinging in the top of the seventh and final inning. Senior Barb Theiss led otfwith a double and was moved along to third on a sacrifice by senior Elaine Suess. A clutch single by sop­homore janine Adamo then sent Theiss home for the go-ahead run. Senior Trish Nolan followed with a hard-driven single to left to knock in Adamo for the insurance run. 
Although Saint Mary's defense had allowed eight errors in the contest, it held tight in the bottom of the seventh for the 7-5 win. 
Junior pitcher Cathy Logsdon tallied her eighth win of the season in nine outings, while senior Teresa McGinnis, Nolan · and Adamo all finished with two singles apiece. 
In game two against the Grizzlies, the Belles continued to have trouble defensively, as they committed four errors. They were also unable to get any runs across, and they fell, 6-0. 
Franklin was perfect in stolen­base attempts with five successful thefts, while winning pitcher Red Scott walked one and struck out 15 Saint Mary's batters. 
Adamo and Logsdon each managed to slam a double for the Belles, but it was not enough. Saint 

AI,r. YOU CAN EAT IPECJAI.S: 
After JOUr lastexam, 
what toughquestions
••• lor leel Loven! 
will you stillbefacing?
EYOY .IDAY IlCHT 4til 
All the "Hand Carved Roast ...f' (our apeciolty) you want plus Veget­




'4J9
abfe, laked Potato, Roll, and Salad Extravaganza lor. 
•• • lor Chlekea LoYerll 
ROY .DAY 3Ill 
All you can eat Country Fried 
Chicken, Mo.hed Potatoes, Vege­
*J"
table, Roll and Salad Extrovo-• . gonzo Bar 

NOW SERVING 
C.mbltd8e Jn~'• EIII'Ope•a Jlltealdut FEATUIUNG oua BUGIUII W An1.L 
W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
51J w. MciUaley, Mlaba..aka 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to joumey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 


Contact: Rev. Andre lev'!ille, C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 • Notre o.mc. IN 4e56 
(219) 283-6385 
,.__._­
-~---~--­
The Observer Tuesday, April 23, 1985 -page 10 
Healthy defensive line expected to 
Notre DaDle Avenue

use strength, depth to anchor Irish 
ApartDients 
ByERICSCHEUE~ 
Sports Writer 
While many Notre Dame football players have fallen victim to injuries this spring, one area of the Irish foot­ball team has managed to stay almost injury-free -the defensive line. And because of its ability to remain al­most totally healthy, the line has had a chance to grow and improve greatly over the past three weeks. 
The Irish employ the 3-4 defensive concept, which involves three men on the defensive line. That line consists ofone nose tackle, who plays opposite the opposing team's center, surrounded on each side by a defensive tackle. 
With the loss of dominant left tackle Mike Gann to graduation, the Irish coaches are now trying to decide on a successor to his starting slot. The leaders in the race so far are familiar faces to Irish fans -juniors Greg Dingens and Eric Dorsey. 
Both contributed greatly last year as substitutes and spot starters as in­juries took their toll on the line at times. The 6-5, 254lb. Dingens, basi­cally a finesse player, enters the year improved in the strength depart­ment. The 6-5, 265 lb. Dorsey, meanwhile, has never been short in that department, and relies greatly on brute force after working mainly at nose tackle last season. 
"Both of them have had a fine spring," says Irish defensive line coach Rick Lantz. "They're really working hard and making steady progress. We're really pleased with them. They've been making very minimal types of mental mistakes. That bodes very well for next fall." 
Working behind Dorsey and Din­gens is 6-1,230 lb. sophomore Mike Seasly. "He's also been working very hard," says Lantz, "and he's done a good job." 
The Irish appeared set at nose tackle going into spring practice, with 6-4, 254 lb. sophomore Mike Griffin coming back after starting many games at that spot in the fall. But Griffin has suffered through a series of injuries this spring (the only major injuries suffered by the defensive line this year), and has not 

\ been able to practice for much more 
\ than a week over the spring. 
"Mike has been banged up," says Lantz. "He tore something in his thumb at the beginning of spring practice, and had to have that surgi­cally repaired. He then had one week of practice before he got his knee banged up. 

"His injury has probably been the biggest disappointment of spring practice for us." 
In Griffin's absence, 6-2, 248 lb. junior Mike Kiernan has filled in ad­mirably. Kiernan lettered last year 
Spring Football 
'85 


-

for the first time, contributing ll 
great deal when injuries sidelined 
some of Notre Dame's top defensive 
linemen. 
"He's doing very well," says Lantz. . "He's making great strides in his 
technique, and his quickness has im­
proved. He's been a pleasant con­
tributor this spring." 
The Irish coaches have tried two 
new faces at nose tackle in an at­
tempt to develop more depth on the 
line. For the first two weeks ofspring 
practice, 6-6, 230 lb. freshman Matt 
Dingens worked at this position, al­
though for the last week he has 
practiced at right tackle, allowing 
Jeff Kunz, another 6-6, 230 lb. fresh­
man, to move inside for some work 
at nose tackle. 
"When Matt was working in there 
(at nose tackle)," says Lantz, "he was 
doing very well. Nose tackle may be 
one of the toughest positions to 
learn, and he was doing very well 
picking it up. 

"Jeff has also come along over the 
past week. He was at a bit of a dis­
advantage because he had played 
out of a right-hand stance over at 
right tackle, and he had to change 
that. But right now he looks like he's 
going to be able to give us some real 
depth." 

At the right tackle spot, the Irish 
appear to be set with 6-8, 278 lb. 
sophomore Wally Kleine. Kleine, 
who came on strong last fall, has 
continued his rapid improvement 
this spring. The two-year letterman 
led all defensive line returnees in 
minutes played last season, and he 
will be counted on to lead the 
defensive charge from his slot on the 
right side. 

NOWREIVTJNG FORFAI.t
"Wally's just having a heck of a spring," says Lantz. "He just keeps getting better and better, and he's 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, 
not making many mental mistakes, 

and off-street parking. 
which is good to see. He looks as though he'll be dominant this fall. 
On site management & maintenence, Overall, he's got a chance to become 

all deluxe features 
a great lineman." Behind Kleine are three men who 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good dealafor SummerSealon)
have split time in practice at backup 
right tackle. Matt Dingens and Kunz 
~eat 820 ND Ave
have split time between nose tackle 

orcaU 

open Mon-Fri3-6pm
and right tackle. 6-0, 212 lb. Mike 
234 6647 


Sat 11-3pm 
been moved from outside linebacker, and now also works at right tackle. In any case, the Irish will be counting heavily on Kleine. 
"With the exception of the injury Johnson, a South Bend native, has 


College of Science Student Council 
to Griffin," says Lantz, "this has been an exceptional spring practice. 

announcesthe1985 
Everyone's worked hard on what we've wanted to put into the 



Dean's Run 
defense. "This should really be a strong 
Distance:
line by fall. We expect everyone to remain healthy and keep improving. So there's no reason it shouldn't be a 

Date:

fine year. We have many players who have experience at more than 

Time: 

one position on the defensive line, 

Registration
and I look forward to a year of great depth on the line." 

Fee: 

And because no defensive line can 
71un (twice around
.........,

Sunday, Aprll28 12:00noon 

$4.00 
realistically hope to remain injury­
• Tee-shirts for all registrants free for an entire season, it may very 
• Please register by Friday April 26 at Spm
well be the depth developed this spring that will come to the aid of 
in the Dean's Office, 229 NSH 
the Irish in the fall. 





Lacrosse 
continuedfrom page 12 
Denison scored three more un­answered goals early in the third quarter. With 5:05 left in the quarter, though, Irish attackmanJoe Franklin took a pass from Bob Troc­chi and fired a shot past the Denison goalkeeper. 

Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 12 
Rhythm Method II was winning on Lyons 11. The 21-1 7 victory sets up a showdown between the two teams with the same name today at 6:15 on Lyons 12. Joe Capuano led Rhythm Method with 7-of-12 shooting. 
Pee Wee and the Wee Bees scored a 21-17 victory over FAQ II on Lyons 11 at 4:45. George Hardart hit 7-of­11 for the Wee Bees, while Candler 


Baseball 
continued/rom page 12 
triple, another Soos homer, and Loughran's two-run double provided most of the fireworks. 
The Titans used four singles to add two runs of their own, but it was 
to no avail as, once again, they ran 
out of pitchers and forced the can­
cellation of the game. 
' 

Franklin's goal seemed to spark the Notre Dame attack. With both teams substituting freely, the Irish chipped at the insurmountable lead, scoring nine of the game's last ten goals. It was much too little, much too late, though. 
Now, with powerful Wesleyan lurking on the horizon, O'Leary can only hope that his players were able to get the poor play out of their sys­tems. · 
Barnett went 6-of-17 for FAQ II. 

Red Barons hit 21-of-48 shots to beat Chicks-Dig Us Now That We Are Seniors, 21-9. Bubba Cunnin­gham hit six of his seven shots for the Barons, while John Breen went 4-of-13 for the Seniors. 
The sixth round of Bookstore XIV comes to a parking lot near you this afternoon. Eight games will be. played on the Stepan courts, four on the Lyons Asphalt and four in the bookstore parking lot. All games begin at 5:00 or 6:15. 
The Irish hope to continue their winning ways as they play host to the Flyers of Lewis University in a doubleheader atJake Kline Field this afternoon. If the Irish can continue their hard hitting, these games should be full of excitement. To make it even more exciting, though, it also will be Banner Day at Jake Kline Field. Bring a banner, and there will be a parade between games. 

Tuesday, April 23, 1985 -page 11 
Bloom County 
Wllf1T WIIS m~ ff<08lar1 '?? HOW C/)(/(.p 
MY MIIM/fiiC1lJ!?&R HAVe PteP ?!' HAPN'T THeY SOW "BANfiNA J(JNIOI< .. 
COMPt!TM.5 UK£ MY5£t.F Afi.O.fJNP 111€ Kmt..P ?? 
I 


Zeto 

Gary Larson

Berke Breathed The Far Side 
1/NP ~AKe AU. 
APPARetmY, P6N!AI­
Wtlll'KIM1 Cli(AY, 
7Hfi 80T7f OF tfJ AlEA/.THY WHAT /J/11


/:ft.,­
YOU llf(€, ... PAI?TOF 111€ YO(J lrl&AN, 


The Daily Crossw-ord 
ACROSS 1 Where Jakarta is 5 Where Valletta 
is 10 Singer Lane 14 TransiL::ent 
silica 15 Constellation 16 Lack of means 17 Deadly night· shade 
19 Pleased 
20 King of Persia 
21 Apt to vary 
23 Cargo ship 
25 Plant 
26 Gum-yielding trees 29 Solar disk 31 Landon of 
politics 34 Kitchen appliances 35 Grass used for hay 
36 Narrow inlet 
37 Stormy 
© 1985 Tribune Media Services 38 -ballerina All Rights Reserved 39 Headliner 40 Building wing 41 Xebecanddhow 4 In every 42 Was directior conspicuous 5 Cover girls 43 Apprehend 6 Came up 44 Water buffalo 7-Yutang 45 Bet 8 Very large 46 Baking chamber quantities 48 Famous 9 Curse 50 One skilled in 10 Wrath a trade 11 Hung.composer 53 Woolly 12 Spout of a 56 Campbeds vessel 57 Campaniles 13 Whirlpool 60 Short jacket 18 Angles on 61 "-en Rose" branches (Piaf song) 22 Lacoste 62 Settlement in 24 N.J. river Greenland 26 US biographer 63 Eur. capital 27 Sp. province 64 Indians 28 Shape of some 
I 
~s. 

81/Y tr.
' 
I 
\ 


Inc 4/23/85 
Monday's Solution 
65 Valley trousers 39 Tailed 51 News section 30 Selleck and 41 Lowvoice for short 
DOWN Smothers 42 Office worker 52-beer 1 Chore 32 Forest vine 45 Asseverates 54 Slender bristle 2 Tip 33 Got along 47 Fr. river 55 Of time 3 Farewell, 35 Kind of muffin 49 Kukla's friend 5856 
Brutus 38 Easily moved 50 Maple genus 59 That girl 
&l?teVIN& ..MrH·"'?...• Pf(OCESS. 
' 
\ \ 

Kevin Walsh 


"Hey, Barry-in the back row-new kid." 



Campus 
•7:30 
p.m.-Meeting&: Movie, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Center for Social Con­cerns, Everyone Welcome. 

•8 
p.m. · Lecture, "The State of the Environ­ment in the 1980's," William Ruckelshaus, Former Administrator ofthe EPA, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Free. 



TV Tonight 
8:00p.m. 16 22 28 34 8:30p.m. 22 28 9:00p.m. 16 22 
I 
28 34 9:30p.m. 28 

TheA-Team 
The Lucie Arnaz Show 
Three's A Crowd 
Nova 
The jeffersons 
Foul-Ups, Bleeps & Blunders 
Riptide Movie -Games Mother Never Taught 
You 
Who's The Boss? 
Great RailwayJourneys 
Hail To The Chief 10:00 p.m. 
!0:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 11:30p.m. 
U:OOa.m. 12:30a.m. 2:00a.m. 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Menu Oven Fried Chicken Individual Moussaka Hungarian Noodle Bake 
St. Mary's Menu Fish Parisienne Rigatoni w I Meatsauce Turkey Tetrazini Spanish Omelet 
. 
16 28 
34 
34 16 22 
28 
16 
22 
28 34 28 16 22 
Remington Steele MacGruder & Loud jean Shepherd's America The Sporting Life NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Tonight Show Fall Guy/Columbo ABC News Nightline Movie -Sanders of the River Love Connection !.ate Night With David Letterman Nightwatch 

Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support the 


'lt'~!9!'2J2!~ 
*********************************************~~================================================~ 
~ ~
i Flying in tonight..... j 

WILLIAM RUCKELSHAUS 
former Administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency




i• AIRPLANE !• 
wiII speak on

: t 

: the movie : 
THE STATE OF THE ENVIRONMENT IN THE 1980's
• 

Tuesday, April 23 in Washington Hall at 8:00p.m.
t Eng Aud. 7,9,11, $1.00 : 
*********************************************·~================================================~ 

Tuesday, April 23, 1985-page 12




SRorts 
Bookstore field narrowed to final32 survivors 


ByPHILWOLF 

Food Restaurants Battle, Tofu Vegetables 1 Revenge Factor missed almost 10 shots to women sutrounding the court.'>, as they rolled 
Assistant Sports Editor 

gobbled up Big Black Mac Attack. Bill ZadeH's start offits game on Stepan 8 at 6:1 S, but once to the 21-17 victory. Dan Michelini led the 7 -of-11 led the Veggies to the 21-1 1 win on Chuck Roeslar ( 8-of-16) and Paul Schoner ( 6-Howard-Zahm combo with 6-of-1 5, while It has come a long way from the 560-team 
Stepan 2 at 4:45. of-17) gof... on a roll, it was all over for Five teammates Rich Whalen ( 5-of-7) and John field that started the tournament two weeks 
The mismatch of the day had to be on Architects. Brad Mollet hit 8-of-17 for-the Patino ( S-of-9) helped out. A balanced 4-4-3· ago. Gone are most of the teams with gim­
Bookstore 9 at 5:30, where Tequila White Archies in the 21-1 7 loss. 3· 3 attack was not enough for the sexuallymicks and funny costumes. Loyal followings 
Lightning rolled over Pedi's Pirates, 21-2. Sean It may have been a preoccupation with the deprived losers. are developing behind the favorite teams. 
Cullinan set the pace for TWL with 7-of-12 opposite sex that prevented If It Weren't For Rhythm Method downed Return of the Bleachers surround the Hammes Hardtop. 
shooting. Mike Richerson probably will-be the Fat Girls We'd Never Get Sex from winning on Queef, 21· l 7, at 6: 1 5 on Stepan 7 while Two referees cover every game. 
first of the Pirates to walk the plank after mis­Stepan 3. at 5:30. Four Fags and a Zahmbie Sixty-four teams competed yesterday in the 
sing all 10 ofhis shots. didn't seem to be distracted by the shorts-clad see BOOKSTORE, page 10 fourth round ofBookstore Basketball XIV, and 
Four Gringos and a Stump dismounted Five the best teams began to emerge from the 
Horsemen ofthe Apocalypse at 5:30 on Stepancrowd that was so large just 14 days ago. 
2. Greg Wiercioch (7-of-9)paced the 21-of-34 Familiar players and team names from years 
Gringos to the 21-5 victory. Mark Kennedy past fill the win column, along with a few 
bricked five shots for the Horsemen. upstarts that are making a run for the coveted 
The players for Revenge of the Fun Bunch Bookstore crown. 
wiped their feet on Demented Doormats on Former Notre Dame varsity teammates Dan 
Stepan 4 at 6: 1 5. The Bunch sank 21-of-30 en­DuffandJohn Bowen faced~~h other at 7:QO 
route to the 2 1-7 win. Matt Din gens ( 6-of-7 ), 


Greg Dingens ( S-of-6 ), Steve Treacy ( 5-of-7) and Tom Rehder ( 4-of-5) did the stomping, whileJavier Oliva hit 3-of-7 for the losers. 
A huge, vocal crowd went crazy at Lyons 12 at 6:15 as Let's Go Crazy beatYank My Doodle, It's a Dandy, 21-17. Steve Nicgorski was the craziest of the lunatics, as he hit 9-of-22. Stan 
•-•••••••••••••••-• Marczyk marched ahead of the rest of the on Stepan 6, and the result was the only patriots with his 8-of-17. overtime game of the day. In the end, it was The Chairmen of the Boards beat Inspector Duffs 10-of-20 for First Source Bank Travell­Thomas and the Private Eyes, 21-18, onStepan 
ing All Stars and Motor Kings that beat 4 at 5:30. Jack Biegalski and Dan Kerrigan led Bowen's 7-of-15 for Mixed Company, as the board members with 7-of-18 and 6-of-13, Bowen's team fell, 22-20. respectively. Dave Heringhaas hit 7-of-16 for 
They may not know much about television the Private Eyes, who were able to out­spinoffs, but Four Guys Who Still Wonder rebound the Chairmen, 30-28. Why Barney Rubble Never Got His OwnShow Four People and a Short Fat Guy fell just learned a little about playing close basketball short in their game with 2 Dillon Sweetwater games at 6: I 5 on Stepan 5. Four Dingleberries Dudes and 3 Tools from Alumni on Lyons 11 and a Kresgie got six points from Bill Devitt at 5:30. M:ike Grace was the key Tool from ( 6-of-1 3) and five from Doug Pratt ( 5-of-12) Alumni, as his 11-of-23 shooting led his team and Joe Nelligan ( S-of-21) to win, 21-19. Dan to the 21-18 victory. Steve Skolozynski (5-of-Kahrs led Mr. Rubble's fan club with 7-of-12 8) and Steve O'Neill ( 5-of-14) led the 4 shooting. People. 
Lyons 11 was the site ofanother close game Nutmeggers got 6-of-1 7 shooting from Dan yesterday, as The Intimidators failed to strike Franco, 5-of-1 1 from Steve Smith and 5-of-12 fear into the heart of Rhythm Method II. Mike from Todd Lezon, as the team beat Gerry's Olson ( S-of-8) and Joe Butkovich ( 5-of-12) Kids, 21-18, on Stepan 6 at 6:15. Alonzo Jeffer­led Rhythm Method II to the 21-19 victory. son (6-of-12) and Steve Lawrence ( 6-of-1 3) Freshman Matt Dingens of"Revenge of team made it to thefinal 32 ofHooks tore Reggie Ward hit 7-of-21 for 'The Intimidators. did everything they could to make Gerry the Fun Bunch", shown here slam­BasketballXIV. Phil Wolfdescribes all the 
In the University Food Services vs. Fast proud in the losing effort. dunking against the "Demented Door­details ofyesterday's action in his story at mats", bad a bunch offun .yesterday. His the left. 
. 

Baseball team uses potent offense to gain sweep ofTitans 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team paid a visit to Motown this past weekend to play a four-game series with the University ofDetroit Titans. And the visit is one that the Irish will not soon forget, as they swept all four games from the Titans by scores of 3·2. 12-6, 19-0 (in five innings), and 19-6. Most importantly, the Irish found the consistency which they have been seeking all season. 

Saturday's opening game showed none of the fireworks that the later games would show. In fact, the game was not decided until the top of the eighth inning when Irish shortstop Tom Shields led off with a homerun. 
Detroit took the early lead in the first game when,in the bottom ofthe second, pitcher Joe Taraskauage singled and took third on third baseman Phil Bugege's double. The Titan pitcher then scored on first baseman Phil Kapanowski's groun­dout. 
The Irish regained the lead, however, in the fifth. With one out, Notre Dame first baseman John Murphy singled and stole second. Murphy scored one out later on teammate Jackie Moran's double, and Moran then crossed the plate when Rich Vanthourout duplicated his feat with a double. 
The Titans knotted the score, 2-2, in the sixth on a double by shortstop Tom Soubis and a run-scoring single by rightfielder Rick Munson. 
This set the stage for Shield's eighth-inning heroics. Buster Lopes ( 3-5) got the win in relief of starter 
The Irish were already leading 4-0 when they began to bat in the top of the fourth. They picked up some more insurance in this inning hy scoring ten times on a series ofTitan miscues and walks. Rich Van­thourout, who was four-for-five with three RBI's, doubled to drive in a key run. 
The Irish scored five more times in the ftfth inning with Pat O'Brien 

Denison uses strong first quarter to to deal Irish lacrosse team big loss 
By MIKE SULLIVAN day's game. The Hig Ned took control trom the very Sports Writer beginning as they jumped out to a 12-0 lead at the half and extended the margin to 1 5-0 before the Irish finally 
Surprise was an ally ofthe Notre Dame lacrosse team got on the scoreboard. last season when it won its last six Midwest Lacrosse "We played very poorly at the beginning of the Association games and the MLA title in what was con­game," said O'Leary. "And, as poorly as we played, sidered a mild upset. Denison played very well. They played as close to a per­
The Irish are finding that there are no more surprises, fect game as possible. They didn't make any mistakes, though, as their main rivals, Denison and Ohio W es­and, when we did, they took advantage of them every leyan, seem determined to make sure that they do not time. win two tides in a row. "By the time they had six goals, our guys began trying 
On Saturday, the Big Red of Denison brought Notre to take chances and make the big play. But instead, we bame back to earth, breaking a 10-game Ml..A win streak got stung." in the process, by stomping on the Irish, 16-9, in Gran­Although the score was a relatively respectable 3-0 at ville, Ohio. the end ofthe first quarter, Denison took its visitors out 
The loss was a major blow to Notre Dame coach Rich with nine second-quarter goals. The Irish, who usually O'Leary's squad which had entered the game tied with are the ones to take an early lead, hung on for a while, Denison and Ohio Wesleyan for first place in the con­but three Big Red goals at the end ofthe half effectively ference. The Irish, 4-1 in the MLA, now find their backs ended the game. against the wall as they must beat Wesleyan, the No.3 "We've never been that far behind before at team in the nation in Division Ill, this Saturday at home halftime," said O'Leary. "We just decided that, in the to have any chance ofrepeating as MLA champs. second half, we'd try to get beat by no more than 12." 
O'Leary has got to be concerned about his team's Even that meager goal looked prett}\ hopeless after chances against Wesleyan after watching Denison to­. Ially dominate his team for the first 40 minutes ofSatur­
see LACROSSE, pqe 10 
Brad Cross. Lopes pitched 1 1/3 in­nings ofone-hit relief. In Saturday's nightcap, the Irish pounded out 1 5 hits for a 12-6 win. 
Coach Larry Gallo's squad broke out early in this one, as it scored three runs in the first frame-two on designated hitter Mike McNeil's 
·double to right. 

The two teams then traded runs 
before the Titans came storming 
back to grab a 5-4 lead with four runs 
in the fourth. Catcher Kevin Louery 
led off with a homer, and later in the 
inning Gary Peters added a two-run, 
pinch-hit homer. Vince Colawossi 
added another run for the Titans in 
the inning wilh an RBI double. 
The lead diJ not last long, though, 
as the Irish scored four in the fifth. 
Ken Soos' bases-loaded double was 
the big blow for Notre Dame, and it 
set the tone for more long ball in the 
eighth, when Tom Shields picked up 
his fourth RBI ofthe day by clouting 
a three-run homer. Irish hurler Steve 
Powell got the victory. 
On Sunday, the Irish continued 
the awesome display of offense by 
rapping out 32 hits and 38 runs. All 
that proved to be too much for the 
Titans, who helped the Irish by com­
mitting 10 erron. 

registering a lead-off homer. The game was called, however, after the ftfth simply because Detroit had run out of pitchers. Joe Dobosh got the win for the Irish. Dobosh surren· dered two hits and struck out six en route to the shutout 
Detroit's pitching woes con­tinued in Sunday's nightcap. The Irish again scored early and often, registering 19 runs on 18 hits. Ken Soos and John Loughran swung the big bats for the Irish. Soos went four­for-four with five RBI's, and Lough­ran went four-for-five with five RBI's. 
The game was tied at one after the first inning. In the second, however, the Irish erased the deadlock by scoring 8 runs in the inning. Rich Vanthournout drove in two with a bases-loaded double, and Loughran added a three-run homer later in the inning. Ken Soos, meanwhile, was able to triple and then score on Tim Hutson's single. 
Detroit added a run in its half of the second and then two more in the third. The Irish, though, lit up the board once again in the fifth with six more runs. Mike Trudeau's two-run 
suBASEBALL, paae 10 







