
----~----..., 
Sports Wednesday-page 11 
-


Paul Kramer 
tims. The ball ts an annual event and wt/1 take place Nov. 15 thts year. 
Hoffman recommends students protest investment policy at game 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
Assistant News Editor 
Abbie Hoffman, the '60s radical scheduled to speak at Notre Dame today, explained how 200 students at a home football game could "create a national phenomenon" by protesting the University's policy of investing in companies operating in South Africa. 
The 200 students, explained Hof­fman in an interview yesterday, could "sit in the stands with placards that spell out 'Tutu' and chant 'Tutu, Tutu, Tutu.' 
"Now most Notre Dame games 
arc televised," he continued. "The 
sports commentators will start 
saying, 'What is Tutu? Is it a dance?' 
"Then they'll say, 'No, it's a South 
African bishop. Campuses must be 
changing,· " he said. 
"Now you've created a national phenomenon and penetrated one the most sacred institutions in the country· sports," he said. 
"lbat's disruptive ... It's like the emperor has no clothes. It's rude and out of place, but how do you change things?" Hoffman said. 
"I'm coming to Notre Dame to say the emperor has no clothes; I may even attack (University President Father Theodore) Hesburgh," said Hoffman, who is scheduled to speak at the Center for Social Concerns at 12:.~0 p.m. and Washington Hall at 8 p.m. 
Hoffman, one of the main student activists in the '60s, said students today only seem apathetic when they "are held up against students of the '60s." 
Looking at the 20th century as a whole, he said, "Students have com· monly been apathetic and more con­servative on issues than the general population." 
Although campuses are not as alive with protests today as they were 20 years ago, Hoffman said stu· dent activism is making a comeback. 
"There's a second wave ofstudent 
activism going around" focusing on 
South Africa's system of apartheid, 
Hoffman said. 
"In the past eight months, 70 
schools have divested as the result of 
organized protest. Five thousand 
students have committed civil dis­
obedieo,ce," he said. 
Hoffman drew a parallel between 
today's South African apartheid and 
the situation in America two 
decades ago. 
"In the '60s, the issue ofapartheid 
was in the southern part of our 
country," Hoffman said. He added 
that he will talk about further paral­
lels in today's lectures. 
Hoffman, who also will discuss the 
relationship he sees between Viet· 
nam and Central America, said he 
was looking forward to speaking at 
Notre Dame. 
"Notre Dame is one of the most 
important campuses on the Central 
American issue because ofits pivotal 
role," he said. 
"There's Hesburgh, and (President of El Salvador jose Napolean) Duarte's a graduate and was invited back to speak. I'll ques· tion that. I'll question a lot ofthings," Hoffman said. 
Hoffman, who once threw dollar bills onto the floor of the New York Stock Exchange and vyatched the traders scramble for them, said he protests in outlandish ways because "we live in a silly culture." 
"Teenagers know more words to 'We Are The World' than they do the countries in Africa that we're sen­ding food to. 
"We're post-literate," he ex­plained. "We communicate through visual pictures. Words have to con­vey certain images. 
"You have to make things ex· tremely entertaining for people to be educative. 
"Throwing out money at the New York Stock Exchange captures people's imagination and attention." 
Hoffman said Notre Dame is dif­ferent from other universities he has visited. 
"Notre Dame is not just another campus. I grew up with the Fighting Irish," he said. "I'm well aware of what's going on. I know they cremated Navy last week; I won a hundred bucks on the game. 
"I love Notre Dame. I'm anxious to come there," Hoffman said, ad­ding, ''I'll talk until I drop." 
College to consider new investment policy, says SMC president 
By ELLYN MASTAKO 
Senior StaffReporter 
Calling divestment "the easy way out " for many small institutions, Saint Mary's Acting President Wil­liam Hickey said the College will consider amending its investment policy to include a statement about social responsibility in investment. 
"I don't think there's merit to a crash decision concerning respon­sibility in investing," Hickey said. "It is far more important that our invest­ment policy be one which has a general orientation to social con­cern and a clear educational com­ponent." 
The College's present investment policy was approved by the Board of Regents in April 1984. 
But, Hickey said, "That policy does not incorporate any detailed statement on social responsibility in investments, so the board formed a Committee for Social Responsibility in Investing." 
The committee reported to the board at their April 1985 meeting. The report consisted ofthree points: 
•The 
College should establish educational outreach programs to improve the student body's under­standing of areas of social respon­sibility. 

•The 
College should identify current issues ofsocial concern and recommend appropriate investment strategy. 

•The 
College should look for and invest in firms whose mission state­ments and/or actions ensure dignity 


ofpersons and quality of life and en­
vironment. 
These points will be incorporated into a new investment policy which will be discussed when the Board of Regents' Investment Committee meets in mid-December, Hickey said. 
"A major portion of our invest­ments are not in stocks. Of our $1 7 million endowment, only $7-$8 mil­lion is invested in common stock. 
"We have investments in 20 com­panies that do business in South Africa. Of those, all but five are Sul­livan Principles signatories. In those five companies, we only have a total of $43'5,000," said Hickey. 
The Sullivan Principles are a set of guidelines for companies to follow in fairly dealing with their black workers in South Africa. 
According to Hickey, it is unfair to say that because Saint Mary's is not taking immediate action, it is not concerned about the issue of apar­theid. 
"We are concerned about social responsibility with regard to invest­ing in all situations," he said. 
"Only 22 out of more than 3,000 institutions of higher learning have made a decision to divest. 
"There are another 40 that have made pollcy decisions to partially divest. 'Ibere is evidence there is a general trend in higher education not to divest, but w develop policies which have the three components that we are considering for amend­ment to our own investment policies," said Hickey. 
University responds to lawsuit by former SMC nursing student 
By THERESA GUARINO 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
The lawsuit filed Monday against Notre Dame by a former Saint Mary's student who was raped on the road between the two schools last spring, arrived yesterday "with no forward notice," according to Philip Faccenda, general counsel for the University. 
The $3 million personal injury lawsuit, filed in a federal court in Chicago, charges that Notre Dame was negligent in providing ade­quate lighting and protection on the road. 
According to the suit, the Uni­versity "acted wantonly, wlllfully, recklessly and with a conscious disregard for rights ofinvitees." 
The claimant, Susan Matte, a resident of Park Forest, Ill., was at­tacked May 12, at approximately 11 p.m. She was approached from behind, and did not hear the as­sailant bet:ause she was wearing earphones. She was raped in a wooded area approximately 200 feet from U.S. Route 31. 
Faccenda said the first he heard 
of the suit was from an article in 
the Chicago Sun-Times. 
The suit covers two counts, ac­
cording to Ira Bornstein, an attor­
ney for Harvey ]. Barnett and 
Associates, the Chicago firm han­
dling the case. The first count, for 
$1.5 million is for actual damages; 
the second count, also for $1.5 mil­
lion is for punitive damages. 
Bornstein said attempts to 
negotiate between attorneys for 
Matte and the University had oc­
curred over the summer, but had 
not met with success. 
According to Faccenda, Notre Dame officials had put the attor­neys in touch with the University's insurance company, and "had heard nothing more" since talk ended between the two. 
"This didn't come out of the blue," said Faccenda, "... but or­dinarily there would have been phone negotiations before" filing the suit . 
According to Bornstein, the Uni­versity will now file a response to the complaint and commence dis­covery, which will include producing documents relevant to security on campus, and safety conditions. 
Whether the suit will ever reach court could not be answered by either Bornstein or Faccenda. "As of this point in time . . . we filed with intent to pursue the case," said Bornstein. 
"Every lawsuit has the potential to go to court," said Faccenda. "However, something like less than one out of a hundred actually go to verdict." 
Sister Karol Jackowski, dean of student affairs at Saint Mary's said she "was not surprised" to hear of the lawsuit. 
"I find it really difficult ... to put the blame on the student or the University," said Jackowski. "You do everything you think you can to protect someone. 
"That's something very hard to call," she said. "It's so sensitive an issue." 
Jackowski sent letters to all stu· dents at Saint Mary's after the inci­dent and again at the beginning of this semester, reminding them of the dangers ofwalking alone down the road between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 

~:----­
r 
r t 
r 
I I 
The Observer 
In Brief 
The Council ofArea Representatives of 
Retreats International, a Notre Dame-based service organization for the retreat movement, met at the University Oct. 27-30 to restructure the organization and to elect four members to its new board oftrustees. The council is made up of20 members represent­ing 14 regions in the United States and Canada. -The Observer 
Notre Dame has received a gift from Aloysius H. and Eleanor Nathe ofSan Francisco to endow a professorship in the College of Business Administraton. The gift makes possible the es­tablishment of the Aloysius and Eleanor Nathe Chair in Marketing Strategy. The Nathe Chair in Marketing Strategy brings the number ofendowed chairs established at Notre Dame to 62. -The Observer 
Hard times on the farm have put more women in the drivers' seats on tractors and farm equipment companies are chang­ing them because of it. "The feedback we're getting is that it's not just women on tractors, but also children," said Rick Kinder, market­ing executive for the Ford Motor Co. "We're finding the average person operating a tractor isn't 6-foot-5 and 230 pounds." The in­formation translated into repositioned pedals and levers, a shorter reach for controls, increased visibility to accommodate various sized operators and generally easier controls, especially for hooking up equipment, on the company's tractors, Kinder said. -AP 
A bomb in a calculator sent from Paris to Iran's ambassador to the Vatican was defused Tuesday by police bomb experts, who said it was powerful enough to have destroyed the embassy offices. The calculator, inside a package, contained about 10.5 ounces of plastic explosives rigged to go offifthe calculator were used, police said. Ambassador Seyed Hadi Khosrovshahian said he was suspicious about the package, didn't open it and called police. "It was a nice present for me," the ambassador told The Associated Press. ·AP 
Of Interest 
The interviewing process will be the topic of a lecture by Lois Kress, national recruiter for Coopers and Lybrand, tonight at 6:30 in the Haggar College Center parlor. The lecture is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
A senior cocktail partywill be held tonight in the Monogram Room from 9 to I. Cost is S4 and all proceeds go to the United Way. Semi-formal attire is appropriate. -The Observer 
"Humanae V"tae
1 " will be the topic of a lecture at 8 tonight byjanet Smith, chairwoman ofthe Women's Care Center, at the Knights of Columbus building. The lecture is part of an open house the Knights are having for their fall membership drive. -The Observer 
Ticketsfor the International Banquet and Dance, Friday Nov. 8, sponsored by the International Students Organization will be on sale in North and South Dining Halls today through Friday. Tickets for the banquet and dance both are 55. Tickets for the dance only are 
$1. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame NAACP nominating committee will hold elections for 1985-1986 officers at 7:30 p.m. in the auditorium of the library. All members and those interested in be­coming members are strongly urged to attend. There will be a brief meeting following the elections. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Toastmaster's Club will meet tonight at 7 in the Little Theater ofLaFortune Student Center. The meeting is open to all members and guests. -The Observer 
Weather 
Rerun season. Today's weather will be a repeat of yesterday's, in black and white no less. Partly sunny and warmer today. High in the upper 50s. Mostly cloudy with a 40 percent chance for showers tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight in the upper 30s. High tomorrow near 50. -AP 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor........................And! Schnuck Viewpoint Copy Editor .......Alice Groner Design Assistant .................. Kathy Huston Viewpoint Layout............ Melissa Warnke Typesetters ...................................... Pat Clark Features Copy Editor....... Gertz Wimmer 
Jennifer Lynn Bigott Features L~out......................... Carey Gels News Editor...................... Mark Pankowski ND Day Editor........................ Diane Dutart Copy Editor................................ Miriam Hill SMCDay Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Scheuermann Ad Design .......................jeanie Grammens Sports Special Layout............. Larry Burke Jim Kramer 
John Mennen Photographer .......................... paul Kramer 
The OI>Krver (I ~~ ~~~~~ 2 tOOO l "puhl"hcd :\Iunday throu¢1 fnday cxt·cpl dunn~ exam and \'at:attun pcrtod~ Thr Obsf:rvrr 1!\ puhh!thed h\ the Mut.knt~nfthe l nl\"t"rMt\ nf Notre Dame and ~amt MOU)··~ <.ollel(e Sub~.:npuon~ ~ay he purcha!'tCd tor S "'o pe~ ,·car (HOper 'oCmc,tcr l h) wrum~ The OI>Krver, P 0 Box Q. ~otrc Dame. Indiana 
•<>~~(, 
Thr Ob~rvrr •~ a memher of Thr Assoclatrd P~ss. All rt"produnion raght~ are 
re~rvell 
---------~----------·---. 
Wednesday, November 6, 1985-page 2 
Have the 'Thought Police' invaded ND classrooms? 
"Big Brother is watching you." 
-George Orwell, "1984" 
"But be's a year late." 
-Unidentified South Quader. 
It was a short article on the bottom left hand ofpage 3 
of The Miami Hurricane. I glanced at the headline and 
turned the page. Then I turned back 
"Students monitor liberals," the headline said. 
"Say what?" I replied. 
Awatchdog group called the Accuracy in Academia is 
recruiting conservative students to monitor their professors with "liberal" slants and "misinformation". Using tape recorders and notes, the students plan to keep track of statements professors make during class with which they disagree. 
The statements • will be sent to a a central source where they will be judged and if the group's leaders disagree with the state· ments, the professor will be asked to correct them in front of the class. If the professor refuses, the state­ments will be given "wide publicity" in the group's na­tional newsletter. 
The group apparently has been somewhat successful around the country, the ar· iicle said. A lot of students have volunteered for the or­ganization and ma.ny also are members of such groups as the College Republicans and the Young Americans for Freedom. 
Excuse me, but isn't this is the kind of madness that led to the Salem witch hunts, McCarthyism, and Or­well's vision of"I984"? 
We cannot laugh this off, especially here at Notre Dame, where the student body is so homogeneous that it is almost like an army of denim-jacketed, sunglassed white business majors who would jump head-first at the opportunity to turn in a professor ifit meant they could get out ofclass while he is being arrested and beaten for teaching something "radical." 
Only kidding, only kidding. But seriously, folks, these people aren't a bunch of nuts. They are an organized coalition to stamp out opinion in the classroom. It fol­lows from their philosphy that they want to replace the current system of intellectual learning with an educa­tional system where the minds ofstudents are stamped with exactly the same.Thought --and that Thought is 


Dan 
McCullough 
News Editor 
This is scary stuff. 
The group brings up the debate of whether campus conservatism has gone too far. Where will it end? It is outrageous to have spies in the classroom waiting with poisoned pens to turn their professors over to the aut­horities for breaking orthodoxy. 
Academic freedom is being threatened by this group. Perhaps they assume there exists a conspiratorial net­work of Marxist professors who are subliminally brain· washing students as they sleep through modern 
algebra. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are intellec­tually mature enough to determine if a professor is expressing opinion or presenting fact. 
If a professor berates President Reagan for his domestic policy in the con· text of a lecture, students are not going to write this down in their notebooks as infallible fact. Rather, stu­dents should have the maturity to agree or dis­agree with the professor, eit· her privately or publicly. If you agree, applaud. If you disagree, stand up and argue. Don't write it down and 
report it. There's a saying we have here in America, "Don't be a creep." Freedom of thought, it's the American way and all that. 
Notre Dame, as a microcosm for the "real world," ideally should be a place where people can hold and express opinions freely--and for the most part it is. But like that cold, bitter outside world, there are those who want to supress free thought. They're wrong. That's my opinion. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 
The Committee on 
Public Policy Studies 
determined by a greater source. 

Child of the Month Tim Malone 
Tim is 19 going on 5 and has yet to truly experience life. He's been deprived of good grades, good times and friends. Help Tim out by stopping in 108 Keenan and wishing him a Happy Birthday ! 

The University of Chicago 
Master's/PH.D. Program in Public Policy Analysis and Management 
Mr. Steven Wheatley, Dean of Students, will be on campus to discuss the program and career opportunities. 
November 8, 1985 l :30-3:30 Placement Office For more information please call 239-5200 
Interested students with any major are welcome to attend these meetings. 
Study policy issues including: Urban Fiscal Stress, Health Care, Housing, International Trade, Economic Development, Taxation, Regulation, Federalism, Welfare, Energy, Arms Control, Immigration, etc. 
~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ss~~~~~~ 
D•ar111•tawn is caminf11! D•ar111•tawn is caminfll! 
a r•pr•••ntativ•fram th• G•ariJ•tawn Law Schaal will b• an campua fram tl-31 an Friday. Nav•mb•r B. 
*Informal 4uestion and answer sessions. 
* Sian·ups outside101 O'Shauaness~ 
Span••r•dby ND-SMC Pr•-Law Saci•ty 
~~~~~;.s:~~~~B'~~;;s~~;;;s~~&~~s~~s~~~~~~~..;;.ss.·~~~....~~~~-~ 

The Observer Wednesday, November 6, 1985-page 3 

A newborn Indian rhinoceros named BJ. stands Zoo on Monday. BJ. was born Sunday evening near his mother, namedX a vier, at the Philadelphia weighing 150 lbs. He is namedfor hisfather Billy. 
Mid-Atlantic deluged by storms; 
W. Virginia flood kills 23 persons 
A.Moclated Pre1111 
Rivers roared out of their banks yesterday in West Virginia's worst flooding disaster ever and 23 people were killed a..~ a storm deluged the mid-Atlantic states, forcing thousands to evacuate their homes and leaving others missing. 
Some residents scrambled to safety on rooftops and In trees as floodwaters also inundated houses in North Carolina and Pennsylvania before the storm system, which had stalled over the Carolinas, crept slowly to sea. 
Hundreds of roads were sub­merged, some covered by up to 12 feet of water and others by mudslides, homes were washed away and looting was reported In is­olated pockets beyond the reach of busy police. 
Damage in West Virginia was described a..~ in the "millions and millions." 
Six one-ton canisters ofpoisonous chlorine ga..o; were washed into the james River from a plant near Lynchburg, Va., but city Fire Chief Wllliam Anderson said he was more concerned about several tank.<; of 
propane gas seen floating in the 
river. 
"With the rate of the river, they 
would be like torpedos" if they hit 
bridge pilings, he said. 
West Virginia Gov. Arch Moore, who mobilized the National Guard and appealed to President Reagan to designate 22 counties as a federal disaster area, said the flooding "covered more territory and af­fected more people" than any in the state's history. 
Virginia Gov. Charles Robb declared a state of emergency in western and central parts of his state. 
"People in the hundreds had to be evacuated by helicopter and with heavy-duty vehicles," said Michael Cline, deputy operations director at the Virginia Department of Emer­gency Services. 
The torrents had persisted for four days. Eight inches of rain fell on Canaan Valley, W. Va., In a 24-hour period ending yesterday morning, while Cape Hatteras, N.C., received more than 6 inches and Erie, Pa., had 3% inches In the same period. 
Eleven people were killed by the storm in Virginia, most of them 
dBASEII® sets the data management
standard for 8-bit computers. 
HERE'S HOW: 
• Powt·rful En~lish lan~ua~ commands mana~c data for over 1.000.000• users. 
Come See a Demonstration Today. 

'l(5\ 1? 1?  hardware and book.s.  
~  dJ:DdJ:,  Mon. thru Fri.  10· 5  
1639 N. Ironwood Drive  Sat. 12-5  
South Bend  277-5026  
A.hton-T•te 11 a trademark of Aehton-Tate. dBa1e Ills a registered trademark of Aahton-tate. 


d~i'al Sp";o/i,.nq ln. wmputa '""""'"'• 
around Roanoke. One victim was a motorist whose car struck a floodswept tree, another a fisher­man. 
In western Maryland, the body of a fireman on a Chessle System train was recovered yesterday from one of two locomotives that plunged 300 feet down an embankment on Monday night, said state police. 
"Apparently as a result of heavy rains there was a mudslide that un­dercut a section of our track," near Strecker, said Chessie spokesman Milton Dollinger. There were no ot­her injuries. 
An uncertain number of people were swept away, including at least four In West Virginia and one in Pen­nsylvanla. 
"I've never in my life been as scared," said Veronica Robey, who was trapped with her 18-year-old daughter Anissa in their car as a bridge began washing out beneath them in Rockingham County, Va. Firefighters stretched a ladder over theircar to pluck them to safety. The car then washed away. 
HPC to continue its challenge of policy 
By SCOTT BEARBY 
AssistantNews Editor 
The Hall Presidents' Council said it will continue efforts to have stu­dents, parents, alumni and faculty express their dissatisfaction with the current parietals policy during a meeting held last night. 
The HPC is in the midst ofa letter-
writing campaign to Vice President 
for Student Affairs Father David 
Tyson to protest the punishment for 
parietals' violations, which is 
suspension or dismissal. 
The HPC says these punishments are unfair when "there is no moral issue in question," according to an ad which the HPC placed in The Ob­server. 
Kevin Howard, HPC chairman, asked the hall presidents to en­courage residents to write to Tyson, in care of Ombudsman, so that the administration stays aware of dis­satisfaction with the current policy. 
·As an alternative to writing a let­ter, Howard said students could mail a copy of the ad which appeared in The Observer if they want to have a voice in the issue. 
In a meeting held Monday, the HPC unanimously endorsed the parietals position taken in the ad. 
In other business, Notre Dame 
student Mark Herkert addressed 
HPC on his efforts to have the Uni­
versity introduce "new curriculum 
in the areas ofaddictions, drug abuse 
and alcoholism," according to a peti­
tion he distributed to hall presi­
dents. 
According to Herkert, the administration has not followed through with recommendations contained in the alcohol policy con­cerning alcohol awareness. 
"The University has not upheld its commitment in educating the Notre Dame community about alcohol, but rather has only issued ul­timatums In the form of the alcohol policy," Herkert said. 
The 198'>-1986 campus phone directories are ready for distribu­tion, according to OBUD representative Maher Mouasher. Mouasher said halls will be respon­sible for student distribution be­cause OBUD lacks the manpower to do it. 
Off-campus students can pick up directories this week from 12 to S 
p.m. at the OBUD desk in LaFortune Student Center. One directory will be allocated per house. 
esc gives peace call with schedUled events 
Special to The Observer 
"A Call to Peacemaking," a week of public events addressing such issues as world peace, the situation in Nicaragua and abortion, began Monday at Notre Dame. 
Members of Notre Dame's chap­ter ofPax Christi, the Catholic peace organization, will give a presenta­tion titled "Issues of Peace" today at 4p.m. 
At 7 p.m. Marianne jackman Es­cobar, a Nicaraguan sociologist and social worker, will discuss her work in the resettlement camps for dis­placed people in rural Nicaragua. Both events will take place in the Center for Social Concerns. 
Tomorrow at noon in the CSCJim Kurtz, a Mennonite Relief Services missionary will lead a brown bag lunch discussion about his work among poor people in the Philippines. Tomorrow night at 7:30 

ATTN: 
SENIORS! 
Come join us for a 
1•
Cocktail Party 
r~ the Monogram Room ojtheACC 
WED. NDV. !I:DD 
pm 
all proceeds go toward~ 

The Monogram room was generously donated by the ACC 
in the Hayes-Healy auditorium, Dr. Eugene Diamond of Chicago will give a lecture entitled "The Medical Case Against Abortion." A reception will follow Diamond's lecture. 
On Sunday afternoon at 3:30 a shuttle van will leave Notre Dame's main circle for the Bendix Theatre in South Bend's Century Center, where "Peace Child," a musical about friendship between nations, will be presented at 4. Tickets may be reserved at the esc. 
On Monday afternoon at '>, a spe­cial Mass for peace will be celebrated in Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Church. Father Edward Mal­loy, associate provost of Notre Dame, will preside. At 1 0 Monday night there will be a prayer service for peace at Notre Dame's Grotto. 
The "Call to Peacemaking" week Is sponsored by the CSC. Further In­formation on the week's events may be obtained by calling the esc at 239-5293. 
Canyouaffordtogamble
with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,orMCA1? 
Proba01y not. Great grades 
alone may not be enough to 
impress the grad school of 
your choice. 
Scores play a part. And 
that's how Stanley H. Kaplan 
can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches 
test-taking techniques, reviews 
course subjects, and increases 
the odds that you'll do the best 
you cando. 
So if you've been out of 
school for a while and need a 
refresher, or even if you're fresh 
out ofcollege, do what over 1 
million students have done. 
Take Kaplan. Why take! 
a chance with your 
career? 
KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl CENTER lTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. 
SOUTH BEND AREA 
Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219)' 272-4135 

--------·-~-------------­
The Observer Wednesday, November 6, 1985-page 4 
Shultz meets Soviets, no progress reported 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Secretary of State George Shultz wound up 14 hours of "vigorous discussion" with Soviet Leader Mikhail Gorbachev and other Kremlin officials yesterday, saying
' I 
r the talks failed to narrow the super­powers' differences on arms control. 
Shultz said that despite "serious disagreements, the two sides had pledged to work hard in preparing the Nov. 19-20 summit meeting bet­ween President Reagan and Gorbac­hev in Geneva. 
"Basically, we have a lot to do," Shultz said. 
In a news conference before departing for an overnight refueling stop in Iceland, Shultz tempered his downbeat appraisal of the two-day visit by observing "we see some positive developments" in the U.S.­Soviet relationship. 
But he was unable to cite any major area of reconcilio~tion or prospect ofan accord for the first su­perpower summit in more than six years. 
In fact, Shultz said, he would not bet on an agreement in principle between the two leaders on how to pursue a treaty to curb the arms race. 
Former ND law prof to serve as fed judge 
Spedal to The Observer 
John Noonan Jr., who taught law at Notre Dame in the '60s, has been nominated by President Reagan to serve as federal judge on the 9th U.S. Circuit Court ofAppeals in San Fran­cisco. 
Noonan, now a professor oflaw at the University of California, received the Laetare Medal, the Uni­versity's highest honor, in 1984. 
Although his teaching and scholarship concern a wide variety of legal, theological, historical and philosophical subjects, Noonan is best known for his vigorous and out­spoken opposition to legalized abor­tion. 
Noonan received his law degree from Harvard in 1954 and practiced law in Boston for six years before joining the Notre Dame Law School faculty. He remained at Notre Dame until 1966, when he went to the Uni­versity of California at Berkeley. He has been a professor of law there ever since. 
As consultant on the commission establislJed by Pope Paul VI to study the issue of birth control, Noonan 
Pro-lifers fight CBS 
A8110CiatedPress 
NEW YORK -Calling next week's 
"Cagney and Lacey" show "a piece 
of pure political propaganda" 
promoting abortion, the National 
Right to Life Committee is asking 
CBS to pull the episode about the 
bombing ofan abortion clinic. 
The Nov. 11 episodeis "unfair, un­balanced and shouldn't be broadcast on CBS," Dan Donehey, spokesmen for the National Right to Life Com­mittee in Washington, said Monday. 
The NRLC is sending a letter to Gene Jankowski, president of the CBS Broadcast Group, asking him to prevent the broadcast. 
If that doesn't happen, the group is asking CBS stations to refrain in­dividually from showing the episode entitled "The Clinic." If stations broadcast the show, then the NRLC wants them to run as a follow-up the 30-minute program, "Matter of Choice." 
Donehey said one CBS affiliate, was among those dissenting from the controversial 1968 encyclical "Humanae Vitae." 
In 1976, the year he received an honorary degree from Notre Dame, he drafted an anti-abortion amend­ment to the U.S. Constitution and defended it before the House Judiciary Committee. 
Noonan's name was one of many sent to the U.S. Senate this month by President Reagan for pending judi· cial appointments. Also on the list was William Zloch, a Fort Lauderdale attorney and former Notre Dame quarterback who graduated in 1965. 
After serving in the Navy, Zloch returned to Notre Dame, receiving his law degree from the University's Law School in 1974. He has been nominated to a seat on the U.S. Dis­trict Court of Appeals for Southern Florida. Another Notre Dame graduate, Ann Williams, was nominated by President Reagan last March to be a federal judge. 
The 1975 Notre Dame Law School alumna was inducted lastJune to the 
U.S. District Court for the Northern District ofIllinois. 
WOW-TV in Omaha, Neb., already has agreed to carry "Matter of Choice" after next --Monday's "Cagney and Lacey" episode. 
Ifthe local stations don't comply, Donehey said the NRLC, as a protest, is asking its supporters in local markets not to watch any CBS programs during the November sweeps, the period when ratings for local stations are measured and determine future advertising rates. 
In response to the NRLC action, CBS, in a statement, said, "CBS' program practices department .has carefully reviewed this episode and feels it presents a balanced view of the issue." 
"Cagney and Lacey," which won an Emmy award as best dramatic series this year, is about a pair of female detectives who are partners on the New York City police force. In "The Clinic," Chris Cagney and Mary Beth Lacey investigate an abor­tion clinic bombing that killed a vagrant. 
Philosophically, Shultz said "life does not end in the middle of November." He said the possibility of additional meetings between the leaders was "before us but nothing has been settled." 
He said later the four-hour session was "a very vigorous exchange that covered everything." 
He twice described the talks as "frank," which in diplomatic par­lance often means considerable dis­agreement. 
But Shultz said, "It was far from a shouting match. The discussions were straightforward, always quite cordial and I think they reflected our desire to use the time well." 
Besides arms control, Shultz singled out regional issues and human rights. 
"As we broke up we wished for success at the upcoming Geneva meeting and beyond and pledged to each other that we would work hard for continuing preparations." 
At the session with Shultz were Robert McFarlane, head of the Na­tional Security Council, and Arthur Hartman, the U.S. ambassador to Moscow. 
With Gorbachev were Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and Soviet Ambassador to Washington Anatoly Dobrynin. 
-...JII'O-rit~ ..,3-,. 
Humphrey, the misguided humpback whale, spouts near the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge Mon­day on his way toward the Golden Gate Bridge and 
Humphrey finally tastes salt water; onlookers cheer return to Pacific 
APPhoto 
open sea. Later Monday, the whale swam under the Golden Gate and out to sea after a 25-day inland· cruise. Story below. 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Humphrey the wayward whale, lured by the flute­like sounds of feeding humpbacks, splashed through the Golden Gate into the Pacific Ocean on Monday after a 25-day fresh-water cruise that made it a national celebrity. 
Racing at three knots against a rising tide, the 40-foot, 45-ton leviat­han cleared the fog-shrouded Gol­den Gate Bridge at 4:36 p.m. PST as crewmen aboard a flotilla ofmilitary and civilian boats cheered and waved goodbye. 
Humphrey, nearing the end of a journey that took him 70 miles in­land, swam almost nine miles Mon­day before reaching the sea. 
After leaping spectacularly, almost vertically, early in the day and swimming playfully in circles, the endangered humpback sped two miles, then paused several hours to frolic beneath the San Rafael­Richmond Bridge, six miles from the Golden Gate. 
He started moving again with the flood tide in mid-afternoon, nosing in and out of San Francisco Bay and spouting water as 10 Navy boats chased him and clanged pipes to keep him going. 
Busloads of tourists and local 

fAre you a Frustrated Musician? 
r 
Your·chance to Share your talent with the Notre Dame community in the·New Nazz located in Chataqua Ballroom on weekends. 
If you are interested in performing call the Musical Entertainment Committee at the SAB at 239-7757 or Mike at272-5588 
whale-watchers gathered along the shore near the chilly, fog-shrouded Golden Gate Bridge hoping to catch a glimpse of Humphrey's exit. 
Humphrey put on a show for the audience, leaping almost vertically out of the water and swimming "playfully" in circles, said Hal Alabaster, spokesman for the Whale Rescue Coordinatioon Center. 
The whale tasted its first of salt water in three weeks on Sunday after a 45-mile swim down the delta to Point Richmond. Ten Navy boats baby-sat Humphrey through the night after it reversed course and swam two miles back inland. 
The whale also shook off the two transmitters that had been shot into 
its skin with  a  crossbow  to  help  
marine biologists locate it.  
Crewman  aboard  the  40-foot  

cruiser Bootlegger needed ap­proximately three hours to find Humphrey on Monday morning before they resumed luring it toward the ocean with the high­pitched, "social sounds" broadcast over a submerged loudspeaker. 
"They're the kind ofsounds that a humpback would normally hear if he were in a pod. of whales," said Alabaster. "They're social sounds and feeding sounds, not mating sounds, and they sound like a flute 
SUNSHINE PROMOTION PRESENTS: 
JOHN COUGAR 
MELLENCAMP THE SCARECROW TOUR 
Saturday. Nav•mb•r t&. 8:00pm Nat:r• Dam• A.C:.C:. Fill •••1:•r•••rv•dSt4.1i0 
tickets available at the ACC Box Office, area Sean, Robertson's, Elkart Truth J.R.'s Music Shop (La Porte), St. Joseph Bank (Main Office) Record World (Goshen) and Music Maglc(Benton Harbor) 
being played underwater." 
The friendly serenade succeeded in accomplishing something that had stymied scientists for 24 days, when the whale was first spotted in San Francisco Bay. The whale then entered the San Joaquin River­Sacramento River delta and ex­plored both rivers, at one point entering a narrow channel and refus­ing to swim back down past its bridges for several days. 
In the early stages of the rescue effort last month, scientists un­successfully tried to scare Humphrey toward the sea by playing the sound of killer whales, the humpback's enemy. 
"It just takes us a little time to get this thing together," said Charles Fullerton, regional director of the National Marine Fisheries Services, the agency that has supervised the rescue effort. 
Humphrey seemed to enjoy the sounds of fellow humpbacks so much that it swam within two feet of the boat broadcasting the recording and never strayed far away. 
"There were times when they looked like they were just playing tag, side-by-side," said Nelson Morosini, who was on one ofthe five boats that formed a wedge behind the whale. 
Wednesday, November 6, 1985-page 5
The Observer 
***************************************************** 
! Looking for Something Different in Electives for Next Semester? ! * * 
! Consl·der STVI * : -. tiiu i' Erasmus Books
* • * some .._ llhl• r 1027 E. Wayne 
* * sundOY .!1 '"""I • Tues ·Sun, noon. 6
* * ..~ ~-1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy* •Notre Dame's new Program in Science, Technology, and values * Ueed • -•of Prl•t boob._..... -w.•-n:lletll! 338 O'Shaugnessy Hall-Spring Course Descriptions are now Available ! <S'ssssss<i~SSS~~~;sss~~~~~~~~~ 
**************************************************** 
' 
ow! 
Chris Walsh, Engineering "I had C's in high school. r1fter Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics. I was able to maintain an A average:' 
Marcia Faragher John Futch, Chris Hanburger, William Proxmire, Engineer Law Student Professional U.S. Senator 
1 
1 1 
"I have increased my read­"With 60 briefs a week, Athlete "The single most dif­
ing speed from 227 words the average student ficult problem for a
"Reading dynamically is 
1
,
per minute to 1,064 words takes all week to pre­senator is to be in-
as challenging and 
1
per minute with increased pare for class. In an formed in all kinds of 
stimulating as reading 
~
comprehension. Because of evening, I'm finished." ways. And I find that
an offense. It is a tre­
my increased reading speed this course has just 
, ~
mendous technique for 
and comprehension, Ican go helped me enormously
gaining understanding 
~
through the daily mail, .... it's meant that I can
on my tight schedule." 
newspapers and other read­read a great deal more ing materials much more material ..." rapidly. 
~
Attend a free Evelyn Wood Reading , , 1 
1 
Dynamics Introductory lesson today! 
You will leave the introductory lesson reading more effectively. The Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics advanced study techniques will save you hundreds of hours of drudgery this school year while increasing your grade point average. 
-----Schedule of Free Lessons 
LOCATION: CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
[directly across from Morris lnnJ on Notre Dame Avenue lon campusJ Room 230 
WED. NOV. 6 12:00 PM, 2:00 PM, 4:00 PM & 6:00 PM 
THURS. NOV. 7 1 0:00 AM, 12:00 PM, 2:00 PM & 4:00 PM 
Choose the day and time most convenient for you. Reservations are not neces!liary. For further information, please call 1-(800) 447-READ 

-----------------~ --·
------· ---------------------------------­The Observer Wednesday, November 6, 1985-page 6 

Purdue task force to study students' growing use of alcohol 
Aslloclated Press 
WEST LAFAYETfE, Ind. -West Lafayette police say drinking among Purdue University students is get­ting out of hand, and the university has established a task force to assess the problem.
, 
· Some students, however, claim 
r 
the drinking habits of Purdue stu­
r 
dents are mild, compared with those 
r 
of students at other large univer­
r 
sities. Barbara Cook, Purdue's dean of
~ 
students, said she has considered student drinking a growing problem
r 
for the past three years. But events during school year 1984-85, includ­ing two alcohol-related fatal traffic accidents, prompted her to set up the task force in August. 
"The events oflast spring created 
~ some urgency -both the deaths and the widespread use of alcohol at Grand Prix (an annual go-cart race at Purdue)," Cook said recently. 
~ 
Sakharov
r 
r 
r 
r­reassures 
r 
,r r relatives 
Aslloclated Press 
NEWTON, Mass. -Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov, speaking with relatives here for the first time in six years, said Monday he is recovering after losing 44 pounds during a hunger strike that ended after the government said his wife would be allowed to leave the country for medical treatmt:nt. • 
Sakharov, 64, and his wife, Yelena Bonner, 62, were contacted by his stepchildren and mother-in-law by telephone in Gorky, where he was exiled in 1980. 
Sakharov's voice on the phone was a surprise to the family, which had scheduled the call last week fol­lowing reports that Bonner had been given permission to leave the country. She has been abroad three times for eye treatment, most recently in 1979. 
Bonner plans to go to Siena, Italy, at the end of the month to consult with an ophthalmologist about her eye problems, then to Boston for coronary bypass surgery, her children said. 
Bonner's children said their mot­her and stepfather apparently were reunited Oct. 23, just before Bonner was granted an exit visa. They said Sakharov apparently had been in a
r 
hospital during his hunger strike. 
~ 
"They want us to know he is alive. 
r 
That's quite clear," Tatiana
r 
Yan.k.elevich, Bonner's daughter, said when asked why Sakharov had been permitted to talk on Monday. 
Correction 
Because of an editing error, Professor Peter Walshe's title was incorrect yesterday in The Ob­server. His correct title is direc­tor of the African studies program at Notre Dame. 
An of interest concerning Second City's appearance at Was­hington Hall also was incorrect because of an information error. Second City will appear Thursday Nov. 7. at 7 and 9 p.m. 
The task force's committees have 55 student members, 42 members of Purdue's faculty and staff and 18 West Lafayette residents not directly associated with the university. 
Cook said the task force exists not to impose new restrictions on stu­dent drinking, but to promote dis­cussion among students, staff members and West Lafayette resi­dents. 
However, some Purdue students said they are no more likely to abuse alcohol than other members of the community. In fact, they said, other universities have far more serious problems with student drinking. 
"Purdue is much less of a party school than other universities of the same size," said David Carrell, a senior chemical engineering stu­dent from Evansville. 
Drinking in Purdue's residence halls, where about one-third of the students live, is mostly under con­trol, university officials said. Purdue always has strictly enforced a ban on alcohol in the residence halls, said Dale Daniels of the residence halls administration. 
But more than 9,600 students live off campus in West Lafayette this semester, and Purdue's jurisdiction does not extend off campus, officials noted. 
The West Lafayette police depart­ment does. not have enough officers to deal adequately with student al­cohol abuse, police officials said. 
Lt. Denny Mitchell of the West Lafayette police said off-campus parties are increasingly rowdy. 
"We're running into more problems trying to shut down large parties. We're getting a lot more ver­bal and physical abuse," he said. 
Recent studies have shown that drinking among college students is declining, but Mitchell said that's not the case at Purdue. 
Cook agreed that student drinking is a growing problem at Purdue. 

The only girl ofthe three who is not carrying a sub-machine gun seems thrilled to bephotographed and waves. Her twofriends with Uzi sub-machine guns do their best not to notice during their out­ing injerusalem from their West Bank settlement. 
Mr. Lonny J. Jay Chairman of the Board 
TheM. O'Neil Company 
speaking on: 
"Career Opportunities in Retailing and Marketing" 
The May Department Stores Company and The Notre Dame Marketing Club 
Invite you to meet 

Friday, November 8, 1985 
2:00 to 3:30 pm Hayes-Healy Building, Room 124 
'---Question and answer period following presentation.-___. 
Casual Dress OPElV TO ALL STUIJP,V'!.\' 
VOCATION RETREAT Mary's Solitude Prayer Ctr Saint Mary's Campus 7 p.m. -7 p.m. NOV.15-16 CONTACT: Sr. Arlene 

Accent 
Wednesday, November 6, 1985-page 7 
United Way Lock Up an arresting success 
I-I 
LYNNE R. STRAND raised $300 last week, and Kunz hopes to Though snowflakes may soon by dropping The S20 team entry fee goes straight to the features writer raise between $500 and S800 plus this week. from the skies, beads ofsweat can still be United Way pot. The best north and south Goblins raised an additional S400 in the seen on campus. The Dorm Tug-of-War quad teams will tug for the Notre Dame title Horror Story Marathon. The spirits des­began this Monday and will continue until on Friday afternoon. ave you heard? Have you heard? cended over Notre Dame this holiday as such Friday. Pulling, literally, for the United Way, Organizer Kelly Daly notes that the daily campus notables as Executive Vice President male and female dorm teams of 1 0 are . competitions will be fought and can be seen
Security is coming! Security is com­Father William Beauchamp, Vice President of currently vying for the first place trophies. at 5 p.m. in front of the dining halls.
ing! 
University Relations William Sexton, andAnd Security may just arrest you! 
Dean of Freshman Year ofStudies Emil If you did not get the chance to put Hofman read in the marathon. Even the Field someone behind bars last week, you still can Hockey Team joined in the spirit.
"Lock Up A Friend" tonight and Thursday night-thanks to the Notre Dame United Way 
campaign. "One guy even brought 
Storming the campus, United Way representatives started fundraising efforts last 'Green Eggs and Ham.' week. These events will continue until this 
That got a lot of 
Saturday. 
"'lbe 'Lock Up' went offpretty well last attention," Hellert added. week," noted organizerJohn Kunz, "even with limited publicity. Turnout this week 
"It was a very good kick off event," statedwiiJ be even slronger." 
organizer Laurie Hellert. The marathon was ~One person can pay S5 to arrest anyone on held all day Halloween in a tent in front ofcampus. Security wlll arrest your friend or South Dining Hall. "The people were veryenemy and hold them in the 'drunk cell' at interested to see what was going on, espe­the bottom of the football stadium. The cially at lunch and dinner. It gave people'prisoner' can make as many phone calls as he another reason to dress up." J,wants to raise bail of another S5. 
Fifty readers brought life to the works of ,"You can raise a .J5 bail, or the security such authors as Charles Dickens and Edgar
guard will let you sit in jail for one hour. 1 
Allen Poe. "People were very entertaining," ,'lbere is no in between," stressed Kunz. 
Hellert said. "I heard 'The Tell-tale Heart' Security will start arresting at 7 p.m., so told every way possible." 
applications must be turned in by 6 p.m. the ~ 
,
"One guy even brought 'Green Eggs and 
Ham.' That got a lot ofattention," she added. 1 "You can raise a $5 bail, "It was really good to see how people will 
give," commented Hellert. There were 125 or the security guard will pledgers for this fundraising event. let you sit in jail for one The United Way schedule ofevents also 
i 
included door-to-door donations, Senior­1 hour. There is no Alumni Club for United Way, gift check sales, and the Halloween Dance Party. Showing of
m. between, " 
the movies "Hot Dog" and "From Russia With stressed Kunz. Love" added to the United Way proceeds this 
week. The United Way campaign will rap up night of the requested arrest. These applica­Friday with the finale, "Dance Your Class tions can he picked up in Lafortune, at the Off.'' 
Se<·urity office, or from your dorm Seniors! Get out your semi-formal attire representative. and attend the Senior Class Cocktail Party, 
"Director ofSecurity Rex Rakow and all where free drinks will be served from 9 to II the security people love the Lock Up," p.m. There will be music for this event, commented Kunz. "They aren't being paid which will last until 1 a.m. in the A.C.C. either, they arc volunteering their time." monogram room. Faculty are cordially 
"Hopefully, a lot more people will par­invited and all the proceeds go to the United 

ticipate this round," Kunz said. The Lock Up Way cause. 
God's little author 
Associated Press "In those days hunger, disease and lack of education were central factors of life in rural Georgia," he said. "I got a good look at 
ATLANTA-LikeTy Walden, the unforget­these conditions, first hand, after I took a table farmer in "God's Little Acre," Erskine job as a driver for a country doctor who ·caldwell has spent most of his life digging made visits out in the countryside. I saw 
for gold. Literary gold, that is. people eating clay to fill their stomachs 
"I've written 50 books and had 150 short and I entered tiny shacks with dirt floors stories published," the 82-year-old author that had as many as 1 5 people living observed during a recent visit to his home inside." state. "Right now I'm working on my It was Caldwell's fictionalized account autobiography." of these conditions, mostly among the 
Caldwell, who now lives in Scottsdale, South's "white trash," that created the Ariz., made several appearances in Atlanta furor. But he had not been prepared for the as the guest of the Dekalb County Library outcry. Association. At one time, however, At­"I thought I had ,depicted life as I had lanta's librarians got together to castigate seen it, observed and felt it. I finally this controversial native son. decided I was being taken to task for some­
thing some people simply didn't want to know about," the author recalled."I don't like the An emasculated, comedic version of "Tobacco Road" first appeared on Broad­
company of writers," 
way in the early 1930s. "God's Little Acre" he told an Atlanta was made into a movie two decades later. The two novels were printed in 40 lan­
audience last month. 
guages and sold millions of copies around the world. 
It was part of the protest that erupted None of Caldwell's later works received after the 1932 publication of "Tobacco the public attention of his first two books Road," Caldwell's first novel. The stark, and some critics called him a literary salty portrait of life among impoverished curiosity, a "flash in the pan." Georgia sharecroppers was told in earthy, Over the years Caldwell clearly stated sexually explicit language considered out­his negative feelings for critics, and other rageous then. writers as well. 

"For a while my mother used to beg me "I don't like the company ofwriters," he not to come home because she feared for told an Atlanta audience last month. "All my life," Caldwell recalled, chuckling. The they ever want to talk about is their books.. son of a Presbyterian minister, Caldwell . as for the critics, they are the eunuchs or grew up near Augusta in the early decades the procurers of the business of literature, of the century. as far as I am concerned." 
Tools of gratification 
The song, a typical Zappa creation, is a Associated Press computer-generated musical collage. It blends electronic and rock music with 
WASHINGTON -Francis Vincent Zappa, remarks by senators and witnesses at the rock music'sJonathan Swift, found inspiration Senate Commerce Committee's hearing. The in the halls of Congress. Ih fact, he has incor­statements often are speeded up or slowed porated America's lawmakers into his new al­down to change the pitch. bum. Republican Senator Paula Hawkins from 
"An average musician doesn't really think Florida, for example, can be heard repeating about Washington, D.C. You don't keep your the phrase, "... fire and chains and other ob­mind on politics," says Zappa. "But you can jectionable tools of gratification in some sure get mad Ifyou get a whiff ofit." twisted minds." 
Phase two of Zappa's attack is still uncer­tain, but he hopes to fashion a music video of This is the same outspoken Frank Zappa, the committee proceedings.
looking more like a stockbroker than a 44­year-old rock musician, who came to the na­
Zappa is no stranger to outrage. In fact, hetion's capital in September to do battle against thrives on it. All of his albums since "Freakthe forces who want to put warning labels on Out" was released 20 years ago by The Mot­record albums. 
hers of Invention, have lampooned and slungHe angered at least one senator, and left satirical darts at many targets. 
town disturbed by the machinery of govern­Along the way he fought the record in­ment, vowing to fight on. Zappa's plan is to dustry for censorship and accountinglaunch the youthful forces of rock 'n' roll as a practices, suing three record companies. He
ship ofattack 
now owns his own label, Barking Pumpkin, which frees him to pursue interests beyond"There's a lot of people out there who are the rock world.
18 years old and I think the people In Was­hington, who are wasting everbody's time and money, should be alerted to the fact that they In 1983, for example, he released a digitally can vote like a beast. And I'm going to en­recorded album of his orchestral music per­courage them to do so," Zappa said. formed by the London Symphony Orchestra. 
Phase one of Zappa's plan is his newly Last year, Pierre Boulez conducted three released album, "Frank Zappa Meets the Mot­Zappa compositions during a performance in hers of Prevention." It contains a 12-minute Paris and he recorded these performances of cut called "Porn Wars," which was inspired by Zappa chamber music. Earlier this month, the 
the Senate hearing on record labeling Aspen Quintet performed a specially commis­demands by the Parents' Music Resource sioned work by Zappa at the Library of Center. Congress. 
View~_o_i_n_t________ 1-98-5-.._pa~ge-8
w_e_dn-es-day..._,N-o-ve-mb-er_6_, 
Everyone has a right to release built up pressures 
Prior to the Notre Dame-Navy game, which saw the Irish continue their odd habit of win­ning football games, I was privileged to wit­ness some rather unusual people tailgating. No, the men ofDillon were not out terrorizing the sensibilities of our guests, and no kegs were seen by this author anywhere, despite his efforts to find one. The folks I saw were not following any of the usual pre-game rituals of eating, throwing footballs, and getting drunk. Instead, they were following some ritual of their own, which I was at something of a loss to explain. 
Dan Casey 
smoke signals 
The tailgators were middle-aged Indiana folk. That was not in itself unusual. Instead of conveying the standard image of stolid respectability, these 'gators were different. They were dressed in Halloween costumes, and were dancing a polka while banging pogo stick-type noisemakers up and down. They danced in a little circle, made noises with their pogo sticks, and invited others to join them. Some of us of careful demeanor demurred, while other more adventurous sorts jumped into the pagan dance with relish. 
The reason for this behavior? I do not think it was intoxication, although I am confident that Dionysius himselfwould have felt right at home with these Halloween Hoosiers. Per­haps it was an outrageous social statement, al­though they seemed to me to be simply unusual, and not particularly avant-garde. Per­haps it was just a form of psychological release. That, at any rate, was my explanation. These tailgators had left their real lives be­hincl, and through the use of costumes and noisemakers, had entered into the world of their unconscious minds. 
A businessman became a whirling Popeye, banging his stick. His wife bacame a ghost, and beckoned others to leave reality to join in their otherworldly dance. A robed alien lizard of indeterminate age and sex banged its noisemaker mournfully, perhaps thoughtful of the job it had left on Friday and had to face on Monday. A grim, skeletal ghoul, lost in the raptures of his danse macabre, pointed glee­fully to a coffin which contained an effigy of a Midshipman. The dead Middy was somewhat out of unitorm, lacking benefit of trousers or underdrawers, but had he been alive, he would doubtless have been considered gifted in other ways. All the while the stereo system within their RV blared out the Peanuts Polka. 
The crowd that they drew reacted in various ways. Some people completely ignored the dancers, perhaps feeling that the unstable are best left alone. Some watched the unusual group with amusement, perhaps having had thrown the football around enough at their own tailgaters. Some people jumped right in, although they did not possess the costumes and the pogo sticks that would have rendered them full converts. 
Terribly amused at frrst, I then began to ponder the significance of their public mis­behavior. I became a little frightened. "This is a packoflunatics," I thought. "They are simply out here to embarass themselves. They ought to behave, wear blue and gold, and go sing an obscene fight song or something." But reflec­tion left me a little more in sympathy with these bizarre creatures, although shyness did not permit me to become a communicant of their odd confession. I attempted to explain their actions in rational terms. 
We all seek a release from the rigors of society by occasionally acting abnormally. Life is filled with a multitude of frustrations which would force us over the brink if we kept them all insidr.. Some of us release our frustrations by getting quietly drunk in our rooms. Some of us participate in sports, living out a fantasy of being a Larry Bird, a George Brett, or even a William "Refrigerator" Perry. And some ofus, I am afraid, publically demean ourselves by dressing up in costumes, setting up bizarre symbols of death and sex, and dan­cing wildly in front of RV's while banging a pogo stick. Personally, I prefer either of the former options to the last, but ifsomeone else sees a need to release their pressures by be­having in such a manner, what is it to me? They did not perform their rite obtrusively, and they did not ridicule me for refusing to dance a turn with the alien lizard. They left me alone, so I felt it best to do the same. 
And while their behavior was not suitable for a true Midshipman's wake, they were at least more civil than the ushers in the stadium were during the Navy funeral that occurred a little later in the afternoon. 
Dan Casey is a junioratNotre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Faust should not be judged merely on his record 
Adherents of Notre Dame football, perhaps justifiably, have been quick to harp upon Gerry Faust for the disappointing perfor­mance of his teams during the first four seasons of his tenure. Faust's five-year con­tract runs out at the end of this season, and while nothing ought to be taken for granted, it is likely that his coaching career at Notre Dame is drawing to a close. 
PaulNewett wish you were here 
In any event, Notre Dame fans will most probably remember Faust as an unsuccessful mentor, one who failed to live up to the hallowed tradition, one whose players always had a lot oftime to kill on New Year's Day. The image ofFaust that will remain with most ofus after he is gone will result mainly from his win-loss record. 
Caught up in our fanaticism and lust for vic­tory, we all tend to forget that the Notre Dame tradition that Faust has apparently offended so greatly consists of much more than an out­standing football team. Notre Dame has long been a very strong academic institution as well as an athletic power. It has always in­sisted that its athletes make education their first priority while encouraging them to excel 
' 
~ on the field. In this respect Faust has main­r tained Notre Dame tradition quite success­
, 
fully; Notre Dame currently graduates 97 r­percent of its football players. Indeed, if it r were not for its conviction that he would be r concerned for the academic well-being of his r players, Notre Dame would never have hired
, 
Faust in the first place. How Notre Dame deals with its student­
~ 
athletes is all the more significant in today's
r 
ethically corrupt world of college sports. In
r-
terms of their athletic programs, many of the
r 
nation's colleges and universities can no longer legitimately call themselves educa­tional institutions. What was once the busi­ness of education has now degenerated into the business of exploitation. The contem­
:poonesbury 
IT USt/J 70 EJt A Wtf1JCTOR.Y.A5 YW CAN 5e&, liJ15A SPAC&HI3RC, LOT5A 
FYJTeJTIAL-l 
~ 
porary college athlete typically finishes his career with little or nothing to show for the four years during which he supposedly went to school. 
Common and acceptable practice among many colleges and universities now includes lowering admissions standards for athletes, frequently to a ridiculous extent, as in the case of former Tulane University basketball player John "Hot Rod" Williams, who admitted that he could not read the verbal part of the Scholastic Aptitude Test. Once admitted, ath­letes are usually enrolled in useless academic programs that leave them ill-prepared for life after college. Many still fail to graduate, no matter how easy things may have been made for them. The overwhelming majority of col­lege athletes do not make it to the professional ranks; a football player has only one chance in l 00 of landing a spot in the big leagues. The appalling reality ofmodern college sports sees many schools using young people for their athletic talents, raking in the financial rewards of winning, yet not giving a hoot about those individuals' need for an education. Many col­lege athletes leave school completely un­prepared and with only a slim chance of leading any sort ofmeaningful and prosperous life. 
In the midst of all of this deceit and corrup­tion, Notre Dame stands out as one ofthe few remaining vestiges of integrity in college ath­letics. Several of the country's most pres­tigious universities, such as the Ivy League schools and Northwestern University, have allowed their athletic programs to founder, in the interest of maintaining their academic reputations. Notre Dame courageously rejects this notion and strives for both athletic as well as academic greatness. The Faust years remind us that it cannot always succeed. 
The realities of college sports constantly present Notre Dame with a choice: given that at the present time it cannot realize athletic and academic prestige simultaniously, should Notre Dame sacrifice its scholastic standards, as others have done so that great athletes who are not-so-great scholars may add to the pos­sibility of larger successes, or should it hold 
I THIN!< IT'5 JV5T 7Ht KiN{) ()= FIX13<-UPPE-R. 
YOU K/{)5 ARE LaJkJNG FOR. 
\ 
fast to its principles, patiently working and waiting for a better future on the gridiron? The choice becomes all the more difficult during mediocre seasons such as these. 
To Notre Dame's and Faust's credit, the conviction ever prevails that it is far more preferable for our athletes to graduate with a legitimate education than for them to win a few more games, gain a few fleeting moments of glory, yet be denied the opportunities that other Notre Dame students have. 
Faust may not have been the great coach that the fans deservedly expected him to be, but we ought not to judge him only in terms of his record. Faust can take pride in being one of a long line of Notre Dame men who wanted very much to win, but who was just as determined to do so honestly and to see his players succeed not only on the playing field, but also in their studies and throughout their lives. In this sense Faust has not failed in the least. 
Paul Newett is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
I walk to school every day. Through rough neighborhoods I dare n()t stray. I breathe in deep, it hurts my nose There's something in the air but the wind still blows. It hangs like a cloud, impossible to see Something wicked, it nauseates me. The sun shines bright marking the day, but the flowers won't bloom cause ethanol is out to play! 

YOU GOT YOUR. GtNU!NE-OAK 
FlCORS H&l<£, Y{}(}R INOUSTR.JAL PWMBING. AN[) 7Ht LOADING !<AMP CAN AL.WAY5 8f3 \ 
CONV!3<TE-O! 
Quote of the day 
"Egotism is the anes­thetic which deadens the pain ofstupidity." 
Frank Leahy 
(1908-1973) 
"ieVVP-_O_i_n__t___________________________________________w_e_d_n_es_d_a~y,_N_o_v_e_m_b_er_6_,_1_9_B_s_-~pa~g~e__9 

P.O. Box Q 
Kevin Hurley trust fund will help relieve burden 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing concerning the establishment ofthe Kevin Hurley Trust Fund. Contributions can be made payable to the Kevin Hurley Trust Fund and forwarded to: 
Robert D. Canty Gaston Snow & Ely Bartlett One Federal Street ( 13th Floor) Boston, Ma-;sachusetts 02110 
Kevin is stable though still comatose. In 
recent telephone conversations, the Hurleys 
continue to express their gratitude to 
everyone in the University community for the 
prayers and support for Kevin and the family. 
It is fairly evident that Kevin will require 
long-term care and contributions to the trust 
fund will help relieve some of the financial 
burden presently upon the family. 
Father Dar,ld T. Tyson Vice presideTII for student affairs Unir,erslty ofNotre Dame 
We cannot lose at ND because of spirituality 
/Jear Editor: 
My very first impres~ions as a freshman at Notre Dame have been of a warm aura and a good feeling pervading the campus and its community. A certain and instant feeling of camaraderie exists among the studccnts and the faculty. I would equate this-sensation with tht• spirit so often created by our football heroics. I cannot help but compare this spirit to our faith in God and the Holy Spirit. 
As you know, football Saturday at Notre Dame borders on the brink of hysteria. Vans and buses begin spilling into the parking lots hours before the kickoff. The heart of the Notrt• Dame community begins to overflow with lift-. Charcoal burners are lit and the smell of hot dog and hamburger smoke fills the autumn air. Old friends congregate and renew their friendships. You have probably a<;kt·d yourself, what is it that draws such a diverse group of pt·ople from so many parts of tht· country together in pursuit of the com· mon goal of"winning over all"? 
Notre Dame has a history of building character. One's character is a profession of his faith and spirituality. Our belief in our­selves has been built on this faith as well as academk and athletic excellence. The expression of our faith and the spirit of God <:an be st-cn everywhere. From the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourds to Lady Chapel to Touch· down Jesus, God and his spirit cannot be avoided. 
Whether we have winning football seasons or not, Notre Dame will continue to improve its faith, l·haractcr and spirit. That is why here at Notre Damt· we cannot lose. 
Tony Cahill Morrissey Hall 
'Night Oak' neon sign newest act of vandalism 
Dt•ar Editor: 
I am quite simply appauled by the latest act of institutionalized vandalism on this campus. From the same people whose lack of cul­tural/aesthetic tastes ha<; given us silver poles and horse corrals. comes the neon "Night Oak" sign on the South Dining Hall facade. Cannot you sec what you are doing? You arc destroying what is uniquely Notre Dame. You arc ruining the sacred serenity of the South Quad. Ifone wants to experience the uglines~ of US .31, please get into your car and drive to the All· American blight yourself. Unless the decision to remove that sign is made im· mediately, a body of aesthetically sensitive vandals will be forced to purge the South Dining Hall of its neon gem. 
To show your disapproval of turning the South Quad into a tacky, fast-food neon strip, please hang beer-lights, holiday lights and ot· her visual nuisances out ofyour dorm window on Friday night, Nov. 8. 
Kurt Weidmann 
Notre Dame student-
Health Center practices should be evaluated 
DearEditor: 
I am fortunate to attend a university con­cerned not only with my academic achieve­ments, but also my personal health. Evidence of this is the Student Health Center which Notre Dame has established to provide medi· cal care to ill students. With such a service, students can expect minor ailments to be treated effectively. Yet, I do not feel secure with the treatment received at the center. AI· though the University has supplied an ade· quate facility, it must improve the techniques employed in examining students. 
Recently, I spent two hours at the center to gain relieffrom a common cough. After having requested to be examined by a doctor, I was seen by a nurse. My examination consisted of one question and a diagnosis. I was given a potent cough syrup containing codeine. The medicine had an adverse effect on my body and the morning after its consumption I was bedridden. Now, I must return to the center to correct my cough which has not been cured. 
The University posesses a genuine concern for our good health. This is evident through the dedication exhibited by the center staff. Yet, their practices should be evatuated and amended where necessary, so that ex­periences like mine are not repeated. 
Michael]. Whitton Morrissey Hall 
Picture of cheerleader 
degraded all involved 
DearEditor: 
We would like to express our views con· cerning the picture of a USC cheerleader in the Oct. 29 edition of The Observer. First of all, what was the purpose of picturing the op· posing team's cheerleader? Why was not one of Notre Dame's own cheerleaders pictured, with the controversial caption ommitted? 
These questions are secondary_ in impor­tance to the main issue which concerns the caption under the photo. We found the sen· tence "But her appearance at the game was viewed with joy by much of the Notre Dame student body," to be degrading not only to the young lady in question but to females in general. Why, even in this day and age, are women valued solely for their physical at· tributes? 
Because The Observer is the voice of the entire student body, it should not present the prejudicial beliefs of a few people as the prevalent opinion on this campus. It would be highly appreciated if The Observer and the entire university (staff, students, and ad­ministrators) would treat women with the respect they dQerve. 
Dianna Billings Christina Rir•aldo Regina Fitzsimmons Gina Grandolfe Terri Proksch Alicia Mark Breen-Phillips Hall 
Healthy relationships valued at Saint Mary's 
DearEditor: 
I am thankful for the opportunity ofbecom­ing a part of the institution where mutual respect between students, student govern­ment and administration is highly valued. A student governmeht and college administra­tion working together solely for the benefit of students seems to be a rare occurance on col­lege campuses today. Thank you, Saint Mary's, for teaching us and showing us that a healthy relationship between and among administra· tion and students is possible. 
Sarah L. Cook Holy Cross Hall 
Faulty press coverage was cause of much grief 
DearEditor: 
Guillermo Garcia and Miguel Mendivil made several excellent points in the article responding to John Conroy's complaint of ir· responsible press coverage of the earthquake in Mexico City. It Is indeed very true that the disaster of the earthquake is in many ways beyond words; thousands upon thousands of lives were lost, hundreds ofhomes and offices were demolished, and Mexico was left in both economic and mental states full of doubts, fears and anxieties. I know this very well for I myself experienced the quake: the initial ter­ror of the shock and lingering paranoia of more, the Injuries offriends, the mourning of the dead, as well as the inconveniences ofthe living. We still, after four weeks, lack running water in our home. We are all left In deep pain and sympathy every day as we pass the ruins of a building devoid oflife, or distribute food and clothing to a shelter for the homeless, or light a candle for the dead. It is an Immense tragedy. 
That, however, does nothing to lessen the truth and sincerity ofConroy's complaint. For he was not denying the horror of the losses that did occur. Rather, he was criticizing a fact that any person down here will be in accord with: the extreme sensationalization of the press coverage that occurred directly after the earthquake. 
Garcia and Mendivil say "Bravissimo" to the sensationalization. Despite the very false images it imposed upon a believing public, and the incredible amount of anguish it caused globally among the thousands of people with relatives, friends and loved-ones here who had absolutely no means of com­munication upon which to rely, with excep· tion to this sensationalization; perhaps, they say, it would cause other nations to mobilize and respond to our cause. I must object greatly, thought, to this beliefthat the press be used, purposely misinforming the public, for such ends. The press has a widely accepted contract with society: to inform us as truth· fully and objectively as is feasible at all times. When they presented "Mexico City Destroyed" it was a breach of this contract. For despite the extent of the catastrophe that several of the zones suffered, we cannot deny the fact that Mexico City is an incredibly vast city, and most of.the rest ofthe city, especially residential zones, was left virtually un­touched. 
Supporting any type ofsensationalization of the press is not only a mistake, it is quite dan­gerous. Not only should we not "bravissimo" the press for their misleading and manipulative information, no matter how good the cause may be; but rather, it is our . duty to publicly condemn and criticize their action. This earthquake coverage is I repeat, an example ofa breach of their contract upon which so many of us depend, especially in times of emergency. What, I am afraid to ask, would be the result if we all, like (jarcia and Mendevil, supported a sensationalized press? Chaos, I fear. 
Mary-Zoe Conroy Notre Dame Mexican Program Mexico City, Mexico 
Birth control argument should be intelligent 
DearEditor: 
In a Viewpoint article on Monday, Oct. 14, John P. O'Callaghan wrote an ariticle entitled "Some View the Need for Birth Control lrra· tionally." While I agree with the title, the argu­ment presented seems somewhat juvenile. 
In his preliminary remarks, O'Callaghan stated that he respects those men and women who present rational arguments for birth con­trol, but he also disagrees with them. This seems to be a mature enough statement: one adult accepting the fact that the other adults are entitled to dissenting opinions. He then said, however, that "there are those who, fearing reasonable argument and debate, con­tinually fall into non-sequiturs, ad hominum fallacies," and who "usually" insult the Church and her hierarchy. O'Callaghan then listed other critiques ofarguments used by his irrational thinkers. Some of the arguments the irrational thinkers use are claims that refute priests' knowledge of human sexuality, and that the Pope is sexist. 
I do not consider myself an expert on such matters as priestly knowledge of human sexuality, nor do I state here that I am even an expert on human sexuality. Nonetheless, the experience of priests dealing with human sexuality would seem to be vastly different than the experience ofthe lay community. On the subject of Papal sexism, I can only state that there are numerous examples of sexist connotation in statements from many of the popes, including the statement that suggested that women make decisions more heavily in· fluenced by emotion than those decisions made by men. 
After a comment suggesting that many of the supporters ofbirth control view people as "slaves of our sexual urges," O'Callaghan's argument took on a dramatic air, and his argu· ment went where he sends his head: into the toilet. I do not wish to offend anyone here, but please, O'Callagh'an, have some decorum. The whole story about the oracle of Phallus and the "willy-nilly" sacrifice ofvestal virgins may appear cute, but it hardly appears to be even an aceptable exaggeration. 
First, O'Callaghan stated his disdain for those irrational people who fear "reasonable argument" on an intellectual level. Next, he refused to address any of the arguments of those for whom he has respect for their "well thought out arguments...advocating birth con· trol." Please, O'Callaghan, refrain from literary hypocrisy. Address the arguments which are so strong in support ofbirth control. 
In many cases, abortion is the alternative to artificial birth control. Please do not tell me that I advocate legalizing assault to reduce the number of murders; the analogy pushes reason to its limits. Many people hold the act of making love as the ultimate expression of love, and it appears unfair to deny couples unable (financially, mentally, and emotion· ally), to increase the size oftheir family. 
I realize these arguments for birth control are weak and sketchy at best, hut it is not my purpose here to support the usc of artificial birth control. I shall leave that to someone better equipped for such an argument. I am not prepared to defend such a position as eit· hcrcorrect or as my own. I only wish to see a controversial issue with excellent points sup­porting both of the opposing positions argued in an intelligent manner. 
Brendan Daniels Grace Hall 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
""
The-=-Observer 
Ed1tor-rn-Ch1ef .. ·Sarar E. Hamrlton Busmess Manager .. Davrd Stephenrtch
P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managrng Ed1tor. Controller.. Wrllram J Hrghducheck News Editor .. · Frank Ltpr Adverttsmg Manager Jrm Hagan
The Observer rs the rndependent newspaper publrshed by the students of the Untversrty of Mark B Johnson
News Ed1tor .. uan McL.ullougn Systems ManagerNotre Dame du Lac and Samt Marys College. It does not necessanly reflect the policres of the 
Sarnt Marys Execut1ve Ed1tor Theresa Guanno Production Manager John A Mennell admtnrstratron of 911her rnstrtutron. The news rs reported as accurately and obJeCtrvely as pos­
Sports Edrtor .. ..... JeH Blumb 
-
srble Unsrgned edrtonals represent the op1nron of a majoflty of the Ed1tonal Board. Commen· 
Accent Ed1tor .. .. Mary Healy 
tanes. le«ers and the ln51de Column present the vrews of thetr authors. Column space rs 
Viewpornt Ed1tor .. .Joe Murphy 
avarlable to all members of !he communrty and !he free expressron of varyrng oprnrons on Photography Ed1tor.. Peter C Laches 
campus. through le«ers. rs encouraged Founded November 3, 1966 

~ ~----------------­
The Observer Wednesday, November 6, 1985-page 10 
Sports Briefs 
The ND varsitylacrosse team will be meeting NVA table tennis tournament registrations 
today at 4:30p.m. in the Football Auditorium of the ACC. For more must be submitted to t~e NVA office in the ACC today. The tourna­information call Coach Rich O'Leary at 239-5108.-The Obseroer 
ment is open to students, staff, and faculty, and will be single elimina­tion. For more information call the NV A office. -The Obseroer 
The ND wrestling team will hold its final intra­NVA squash tournament registrations must besquad positional wrestling matches tonight at 7 p.m. in the submitted to the NVA office in the ACC today. The tournament isAuxiliary Gym of the ACC. The matches are free and open to the open to students and faculty. For more information call the NVA
public. -The Obseroer office. -The Obseroer 
The ND Rowing Club will be meeting tonight at 7 ND Water Polo Club members who are to take part
p.m. in Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Building. Both novice 
in the dedication of the new natatorium are to meet tomorrow at 7and varsity rowers should bring their checkbooks. For more in­
p.m. at the natatorium. For more information call Tom O'Reilly at
formation call Patricia Warth at 283-2900.-The Obseroer 283-3588.-The Obseroer 
Stepan Center court time is available upon re­quest. Applications must be taken today to the Student Activities The ND Rugby Club will hold its council elections Office on the first floor ofLaFortune. -The Obseroer 
tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in the LaFortune little Theater. All members should attend. For more information call Mark Weingartner at 272­3388.-The Obseroer 
NVA interhall basketball rosters must be sub­
mitted to the NV A office in the ACC today. There is a $25 entry fee for men's teams and a $20 entry fee for women's teams. For more NVA interhall hockey rosters must be submitted 
information call the NV A office. -The Obseroer to the NVA office in the ACC today. There is a team entry fee of S35 to be submitted with a roster. For more information call the NVA office. -The Obseroer
NVA Grad and Club basketball rosters must 
be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC today. For more informa­tion call the NV A office. -The Obseroer 
NVA campus all-nighter entry rorms are now 
available at the NVA office in the ACC and at the Angela AthleticA pep rally will be held Friday evening at 7 p.m. at Stepan Facility. These forms must be turned in by Wednesday, Nov. 13. For 
Center. Irish Quarterback Coach Ron Hudson will be the featured 
more information call 239-6100. -The Obseroer 
speaker.-The Obseroer 
U.S. golf team enters Nissan Cup 
Associated Press 
KAPALUA, Hawaii -The United States, with an 0-3 record in interna­tional team competition this year, plays Australia today in the first round of the new, four-team Nissan Cup World GolfChampionship. 
"It just shows what's going on in the rest of the world today," Ray Floyd, captain of the six-man American team, said Tuesday of the United States' string of team losses this season. 
The Americans lost to Great Britain-Europe in the Ryder Cup matches in England, lost to Australia in the finals of the multiple-team Dunhill Cup in Scotland, and last week lost to Japan in the ABC cup. 
Leading representatives of those winners also are playing for their countries in this new event that in­volves teams from Japan and Europe as well as the United States and Australia. 
Despite the shutout of American forces this year, Floyd was confident and optimistic. 
"All my guys are playing well. Corey ( Pavin) won (the individual title) in Japan last week. 
!h.· Uh!Wrr•·r 'olrt: I>JnH· utflu.: htc.Jh:d un the: th1rd tltulr 111 l.tlt~rtlllh "t udc:nl ( cntc:r Jl., c:pt' .. IJV\IIkd Jlh t:flt,tng frtllll l) J 111 unrd t p m \1, ,ndJ\ Ihn ltiJ!.h I nJ.1\ I ht' f Jh.\f•rt cr ..._,l1111 \1,Jn ' ,,u,., c: It"· .Jtt'd 1111 tla tl11rd n,,,,r , '' IIJ)!.)!..tr ( '1lk).!t' ( cntt·r Jllcpt' 1.. l.t"rtied' tr1 1111 I ~ -4.11 pIll lllll d ~ p 111 \lt Ill dJ\ lllc•ugh I rtd.n I)t •.ulllnc lctf IH"'I d.t\ \ l.t,,tfit ~J..., '' -\ p 111 \II ~,l,t,,tfll d' 11111'1 ht· prt·p.Ju.l ell lit r 111 pt·r" til 11r tn mJII ( hJrgt· '' Ill ll'llh per tnt l tur.tt
Classifieds 
ll'f' t:f dJ\ 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE  FOUND: WOMAN'S WRIST WATCH ON DANCE FLOOR OF SENIOR BAR. CAll TOM AT 3556 TO IDENTIFY AND CLAIM. LOST: Gold women'a NO cleN ring,  1978 Datsun210. 43.000 miles. auto. tranam.• excellent condition. $2295.-272­9383 ......................... Canon AE-1 35mm camera. hardly used. Call Paul2n-3912  I need many MISS GA'e Leave a message at 283-2943. NEED 2-4 GA'S for M1ss. game. Call Helen 3624.  Desperately need season 8-Ball tix.Will pay$$$$$ If you will help calf Dan 3250 THANKS MARK FOR A GREAT PET STORE1!  HAPPY BIRTHDAY to the man. Nancy Two--Tone and The Tapper.18 never looked bener' Love. Lisa Lupner. Caytster. Bethk~ns. Corn Tassel. Boobe< and The Monkees  
•  287-4062 TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81117 EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 PRO. TYPE Over 15 years exp. Specializ­ing in student papers, law papers. dis­sertations. resumes. 2n-5833 TYPING 277-8045 FREE PICKUP & DEUVERY Slo-$310 WEEKLY/UP IIAIUNG CIRCULARII NO QUOTAS! liN-CERELY INTERESTED RUIH IELF· ADDREBIED ENVELOPE: SUCCEII, PO IIOX 470CEG, WOOOITOCK, IL 1100118.  b!Kk onyx with a diamond, lnltlala JLT -86 lnalde. P'-H call J011nle at 2Q-2n1. UIC TAILGATOR is where !lost my bike. Ita a blue Schwinn TraveHer Iff to-speed. Last seen at the 'Falcon· tailgator on Green Field during the USC· blowout. Please help me out if you know where it ia. Ita my only way to campus from my house. Call Steve X 288-6176. LOST: ONE MACWAtTE FLOPPY DtSK IN O'SHAG OR LAFORTUNE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL CARL WHELAHAN AT 234-2275. LFORRENC)  '75 FIAT SEDAN $650. Need to sell SAP! 284-4021 TICKETS HE'S BACk! SELL ME 2 GA'S & AS MANY STD TKS FOR MISS. AS I NEED. THIS MIGHT BE YOUR JACKPOT! CAll NOW! STEVE 3318 NEEDED-2-4 GA'S FOR LSU GAME WILL PAY PREMIUM. CALL 4434. I NEED M188 GAa.272-6308 PENN STATE nX NEEDED  for sale . two miss tickets call jay 232­0554 Pll!aae help send MB club of Wharton to Penn St. game Nov. 16. If you have (or know anyone who haa) tickets. please call Bill Georgen at 4187 or 3751. or Kate Georgen at (215)-732-7842. Thanks! .............................. NEED MISS. GA'B. W/BUY OR TRADE FOR nX TO OTHER GAMES. CALL 277·7S10. NEED 10 PENN STATE TIX (GA OR STDNT) CALL 4434 DESPERATELY NEED 4 MISS. TIX (STUDENT OR G.A.). WILL PAY $$ !I CALL SHARON AT 4387!! For Sale: 2 Miss. tix. caii163!;--Best Offer  WILL THE BASQUE LOBSTER BECOME LOBSTER BISQUE?!? WHO KNOWS,IT'S UP TO JOE UNITED WAY-SAB ROCK-A-LIKE IS COMING' THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 14th ROCK·A-UKE! ROCK·A·UKE! INFORMATIONAL MEETING FOR ANYONE INTERESTED IN ENTERING AN ACT ON WEDNESDAY. NOV. 6. AT 8:00P.M. IN THE LITTLE THEATRE OF LAFORTUNE. OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STU­DENTS. . NO'S FIRST NEW ORLEANS CLUB WILL HAVE AN OROANIZAnOHAL MEETING ON THUIIIOAY NOV. 7 AT  CALL THE FOUL TEMPTRESS AT 2695 TO WISH HER AN INCREDIBLE 18TH BIRTHDAY! N.W.-f'M WATCHING YOU. I'M WATCH­ING YOU. LUV. J.M. KIM Hang in there' Good luck today ...and RELAXB1ff THE COFFEE HOUSE at ZAHM Ton1ght from 9:00-11:00 A Welcome Break from Your Busy Week Good Refreshments and Great Entertain· ment Provided. You Prov1de the Con­versation Admiaa1on free The r&Sldents of Stanford Hall would like  
EXPERT TYPING IERVICE. CALL IIRI. COKER, 2»-7008. BUllNEll EXPREII, INC. WOI'dpr-'ngand typing 272-8827 THE MAIL CAMPAIGN: RESUMES AND COVER LETTER. PRESENTAnON BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. NOVE-ER 5 • &:30 P.M., 118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL REPEATED NOVEM­BERS. LOST/FOUND I  RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR CITY/COLLEGATE RENTALS INC.,2597661 FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED IM­MEDIATELY.NOTRE DAME APTS.CHEAP.CALL ALICE 287-7657. NEED ROOMMATE FOR 2ND SEMESTER x HICKORY VILLAGE CAll 272-6298 HOUSE FOR 2ND SEMESTER. !;­BDRMS. $125/MO/PERSON. 1 MI. NO. OF CAMPUS. CALL 674-6595 AFTER 5 P.M.  CALL 1504 PENN STATE nX NEEDED CALL 1504 I NEED 2 MISS GA'S OR STUDENT TIX"S. PLEASE CALL BILL· 3467 Need 4 GA's for Miss. Call Jane at 3690 NEED M188. nx-· 6, FEMALE STDNT ORGA-· TOM288-4753AFTER ttPM-' HELP! NEED 2 LSU GA'S WILL PAY BUCKS! CALL MIKE 2079 HELP!IDesperately need 4 GA's and 1 ST tix for Miaailaippi and LSU. Call Patty at  Selling 4 Miss. GAa. FACE VALUE Call 2965 YOU WANT THEM-I'VE GOT THEM!! 2 MISSISSIPPI GA'S available. Please call Frank at x2018. NEED TWO!!! Will pay$$ for MISS GA'S. Keilh at 291-1341. FOR SALE 2 MISS GA'S 284-5073 NEED4 LSU GA'S CALLLYNN 284-4023 PERSONALS  8:00PM IN THE NEW ORLEANS ROOM OF LAFORTUNE. ANYONE II INVITED TO ATTEND. "The responsibility ofTalent IS hard work" -E. Hemingway In memory of M~. Jeanne Smith Nov. 14. 1945-Nov. 6. 1984 HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY SPERO KARAS! Whoa. what are you saying on your b-day? Hope you deal the death at your Alpha-Beta-Delta party! Call 1797 to wish him a Happy Birthday. Hey Nina: You're awesome'(in a major way) Sorb1tol  to WISh Terry "Did you get any act1on?" Falk a happy 21st birthday. I HATE COMMUNITY LIVING!! and by the way, have you ever seen so much plaid?? Thank you St. Jude. GET PSYCHED FARLEY!! GET PSYCHED FARLEY!! GET PSYCHED FARLEY!! POOBAH-HAVE YOU FOUND "IT"??? LOVE. THE BITCHES YO. JEFF. JOHN. AND MARVIN-Do you realize that you have cockroaches. and  
LOST N.D. 10 HOLDER WITH 10, IN­DIANA DRIVER'S LICENSE AND LOTS OF STUFF ESSENTIAL TO MY LIFE!!! IF YOU FIND THIS PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE CALL MARY TIMM (the name on d my stuff) AT 272-0811 OR LEAVE AT THE ARCHITECTURE OFFICE. Found in Engineering library: Cuio Scientific Calculator. Calt088 FOUND: STUDENT FOOTBALL nCKET BOOKLET. CALL 3427. LOST -ONE GOLD LOOP EARRING ABOUT 6 WEEKS AGO SOMEWHERE BETWEEN PANGBORN AND REGINA. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT  WANTED RIDE/RIDERS NEEDED TO SYRACUSE 11/1!;-17 CAll KELLY 4241 DRUMMER NEEDED for SHENANIGANS. N.D.'s swing choir. call 239-5896 Ridera needed to Central Jersey Call Pat 3380 RIDERS NEEDED TO MIAMI U. OF OHIO-NOV. 8th CALl AMY 284-5536  284-4333 after 11 pm HEY, OVER HERE 2 STUDENT MISSISSIPPI TICKETS FOR SALE WHADDAYA THINK OF THAT? 234-7412 JEREMY OR JOHN M188 OAa FOR 8ALE.272-8308 I NEED PENN IT & LIU GAa.272-6306 NEED 4 STUD. OR GA TIX FOR MISS. CHRIS 272-2466  The more enlightened we become. the more we can't be lived up to by anybody anywhere. The more we leam, the more we'd better expect to live by ouraelves. -Richard Bach. Tha Bridge Acrou Forevw OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.• 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. THINKSTV! THINKSTV! THINKSTV!  SIMPLE MINDS--IN CONCERT! The Progreasive Music Club is sponsor­ing a trip to the Simple Minda concert on Tues., Nov. 12. at Northwestern Univer­sity. Reserve a a ticket on Thu~ .. Nov. 7. from 6-Sp.m. at the Obud desk in Lafortune . $20 for membera and $22 for non-members. thankyou so much st. jude Anention all Off-Campus students: Sorry but the Off-Campus Winter Ball has be"n postponed until further notice. IT'S NOT GOING IN, BEAST!  that so far MARK haa had to kill them all by himself? Is that fair? Well? Is it?? SARAH MANERA (heh,heh.heh)·· Be warned: The arnval of winter brings with it the dreaded -you guessed it-PERSONAL FLOATION DEVICE' I say we cool it on the midnight Domino's (they're never on lime anyway).HEH HEH HEH. SMC SENIOR CLASS Girls· Night In Thu~. Nov. 7th 8-1tpm HCC Game Room Popcorn. T.V., Friends. FUN! "Cyril. I wouldn't .... on you if you were on fire'"BETWEEN DAYUGHT AND BOONVILLE Nov. 7,8,9 Little Theatre  
284-4006.  FOR BALE: 2 GA nx FOR Ml88. & LIU  EARN $$$ FOR ALL THOSE BOOKS.  8:00SMC  
FOUND: Gold. kind of paisley bracelet on lhe FLOOR in South Dining Hal. I like it,  FOR SALE  GAMES. CALL 2»-2183 OR 234-5778. FOR SALE ­One GA to the Mississippi  YOU DIDN'T READ!! PANDORA'S WILL BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M-F 11-4. OR WE CAN HELP YOU FIND A USED  Field Hockey Chlcka -h•••YEAH! Let's win THAT tournament!  BREAK A LEG LIZ AND ANNE -TWO  
but if you want it back. call Mary'Belh288­ game. Call4526  BOOK FOR A CLASS. WE'RE OPEN M­ STARS FROM NEW JERSEY LOVE. MJ.  
55n.  ............................,.....  F 11·6, SAT&SUN 10-5. PANDORA'S IS  CHRIS  AND  LIZ!!  ANNE  BORGMAN  
.....................  LSU  GA'eAVAILABLEI  LSU  GA'a  FOR IALE: STUDENT nCKET TO MIB­ OPPOSITE  CORBY'S  X  937 SOUTH  PICK UP YOUR JACKET-LIZ MURPHY  
FOUND: Silver Bracelet Friclay Night in  AVAILABLE!! I have ovet twenty LSU  BIIIIPPI GAME AND TO LIU GAME!!  BEND AVE.  STOP DRINKING SO MUCH COFFEEII  
Pangborn. Call 289-4238 to identity.  GA tickets for sale to anyone who wants  MUST BELLI! 272-3714 DIANE  FASHION VICnMSIII  BEST OF LUCK TO BOTH OF YOU!!  
them. They are great seats but are going  THE MAIL CAMPAIGN: RESUMES AND  A BEAUX ARTS (COSTUME) BALL  
- LOST LOST LOST My Girlfriend's Claas Ring somewhere on Greenfield before Navy game. Black Onyx from Averett Col­lege ·sa. Please call Ray at 288-634 7 to uvemylife.  fast!' If you need any of these tickets call 3828 sometime soon. Any tickets that aren't bought here at NO are to be sold to a hoard of Rabid nGER Fana!! ................................/................................ nCKETB FOR BALE: 2 LIU GA'S.  DESPERATELY NEED 2 LSU GA'S­WILL PAY TOP $$!CALL JOHN AFTER 11PMAT4601. FOR BALE: 2 MISS. nX. CALL (415) 368-11118AFTER6 CALIF. nME.  COVER LETTERS. PRESENTAnON BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. NOVEMBER 5 -6:30 p.m., 118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL REPEATED NOVEMBER 6.  LIVE BAND' $4 PRESALE $5ATTHEDOOR (no alcohol. please)  NEED RIDE TO YOUNGS. OHIO FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK PLEASE CALL ELAINE SMC-4007. WILL PAY USUAL' "SOMEONE I KNOW DRINKS TOO MUCH" WED. NOV. 6th 7:30 pm  
If you "borrowed" 2 tapes from 7th floor  CALL  (818)  n&-0830  Did AMY GRANT speak to your heart?  STAPLETON  LOUNGE  SPONSORED  
P.E. Friday night. please leave them at room717(canremainanonymous).lfthey realy mean that much to you. I'll make copies-they belong to an aerobica teac­her!' thanks!  NIGHTS/WEEKENDS. Studying for a German reading exam? Berlitz tapes & books-$30. Used "once" & I paased!l Calf 232-5230 eves.  I NEED A RIDE HOME FOR THE PENN STATE GAME. I LIVE AN HOUR FROM PENN STATE. FREE MEALS AND LODGING TO WHOEVER GETS ME HOME. CALL CAROL 1273  Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE AT 272-HIKE. Delivery Hou~: Monday­Thursday 5pm-12pm; Friday 5pm-2am: Saturday 3pm-1 am and Sunday 4pm­10pm.  Then THE SPIRITUAl. ROCK OF NOTRE DAME is for you. Join us for fel­lowship Wednesdays 7:00 p.m. in Keenan Chapel. Oues~ons call Tom 3310, Mike 2338. George3244.  BY SMC JUNIOR CLASS TO A FRIEND: YOUR WELCOME' WHEN DO YOU WANT TO MEET? -A FRIEND 

!
L_ 
r--~------------~~ 
Wednesday, November 6, 1985-page 11
The Observer 

. 
-------------------------------------------~-·-------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, November 6, 1985-page 12 
Schembechler has no complaints; Michigan looks toward Purdue 
As8ociated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -A tie in sports is supposed to be like kissing your sister, but Michigan football Coach Bo Schembechler isn't com­plaining. 
Schembechler initially was despondent about the Wolverines' 3-3 tie at Illinois last weekend, but he brightened up after learning that Iowa was knocked offby Ohio State, making the Big Ten title chase a wide open charge over the last three weeks ofthe season. 
"These last three weeks are going to be a new season," Schembechler said Monday at his weekly news luncheon. "With a shot to win it, that'll be incentive enough for our guys." 
It will still take a small miracle for the Wolverines to make it to the Rose Bowl, of course, but stranger things have happened in the Big Ten. All of the contenders -Ohio State, Iowa, Illinois and Michigan -have lost one conference game. 
Illinois and Michigan, obviously, also have a tie blemishing their records. 
"Coming away with a tie is not what we intended," Schembechler said. "I don't like a tie, but it's better than losing. 
Ditka adopts new look this year as victorious Bears let him relax 

A88odated Press 
CHICAGO -Has success forged a 
new image for Mike Ditka? 
It was a question put to the man 
now in his fourth and most success­
ful year as Chicago Bears coach. 
Ditka bit his lip, allowed himselfa 
quick smile and replied: 
"I'm glad it wasn't (the old) Mike out there (Sunday, when the Bears defeated the Green Bay Packers 16­10 in a mistake-filled, brawl-beset contest). That Mike would have been awfully excited for a while." 
The questioner persisted. Was there a new or different Mike off the field? 
"I don't drive the highways as much," said Ditka, referring to a much-publicized arrest in Chicago for driving under the inlluence ofal­cohol following a victory over San Francisco last month. "That's for 
sure." 
Secure because he already has been awarded a second three-year contract, buoyed by success and hailed recently as something of an innovator, Ditka can afford to lam­poon his new image. He can afford to be restrained. He is winning. 
It was not always so. Ditka was an All-Pro tight end during his first stay with the Bears, but he came back to Chicago four years ago as an un­tested Dallas assistant coach. His selection by Chicago's owner, the late George Halas, was said to reveal more about Halas' sense of loyalty than Ditka's acumen. 
But the Bears' 1984 march as far the National Football Conference title game -they were derailed by San Francisco 23-0 -and their 9-0 performance so far this year -includ­ing the mild revenge that came with beating the 49ers -has silenced most ofthose critics. 
It has also changed Ditka from a coach who two years ago took out his frustrations on a locker in Bal­timore, breaking his hand, to one who has learned to live with everyone's shortcomings, including his own. 
"I think he's reached the point where he can have confidence in his players and the abilities of this team," said defensive lineman Dan Hampton, a tough All-Pro player in the Ditka mold. "I really think he came here and tried to get too in­volved in every facet ofthe game ... maybe part of it was because he was new," Hampton eontinued. "But now he understands we're profes­sionals and he lets us play our game." 
The ''Refrigerator'' receives offers because of his newfound fame 
Assodated Press 
CHICAGO William "The 
Refrigerator" Perry, who is paid to 
push his massive self away from the 
dining table, may soon be pushing 
hamburgers, french fries and other 
fast-food temptations, as well as real 
refrigerators. 
The Chicago Bears' 308-pound rookie defensive tackle, whose girth makes him worth plenty to adver­tisers, stands to profit more from his endorsements this season than from his four-year, Sl.35 million contract with the National Football League club. 
"I don't know ofa hotter property in the country right now," his agent, Jim Steiner of St. Louis-based Bry & associates, said Monday. 
McDonald's, Coca Cola, and, of course, refrigerator-makers General Electric and Whirlpool are hungry for endorsements from the 22-year­old Perry, who says a decision is ex­pected in about two weeks. 
"They (offers) are coming in at the rate of 15 an hour," said Steiner, whose firm represents more than 100 athletes, including the New York Mets' Darryl Strawberry, Kel­len Winslow of the San Diego Chargers and the St. Louis Cardinals' Vince Coleman. 
Offers were coming in even before ferry became an important factor on offense, scoring a touch­down and clearing the way for two TDs by Walter Payton against Green Bay two weeks ago. He victimized the Packers again Sunday, catching the first touchdown pass of his career as the Bears defeated Green Bay 16-1 0, raising their record to 9­0. 
That earned him a Monday ap­pearance on the CBS morning News, plus a front-page story in USA today. 
Among the companies lining up to sign Perry are a toy maker which wants to market a William Perry robot, a manufacturer of hospital scrub suits and a thermal underwear company, Steiner said. 
And dentists are offering to replace Perry's missing front tooth for free. 
Perry's show-biz career is being plotted carefully, Steiner said. 
"We cannot overexpose him, and we want to align him with quality companies," he said. 
Perry, raised in Aiken, S.C., was a surprise first-round draft choice out of Clemson. Many pro analysts had figured Perry's weight would drop his value, but the Bears gambled that he would stay within the weight and body fat ratio clauses of his unique contract. 
His 120-pound wife, Sherry, is keeping him on a lean diet of baked chicken, vegetables and fruit. Perry said he didn't know if a slimmer proffie would cost him fans, but added, "I'm sure trying to get under 300 pounds." 
The massive new Bear has taken Chicago by storm. 
He has a fan club whose members receive, among other things, a square "72" refrigerator magnet, celebrating his jersey number. 
The Wall Street Journal, a newspaper without a sports section, has featured Perry. And Sunday's Chicago Tribune carried an editorial declaring, "Mr. Perry has come to symbolize the revival ofthe Chicago Bears." 
And the robust rookie is to appear 
Nov. 11 on The David Letterman 
Show. 
"We still have to win our last three games and that will be tough. But, we're excited about it. Just the fact that we came out ofthe Illinois game with a tie gives us a chance for the championship and I hope we can take advantage ofthat." 
The Wolverines, who are 6-1-1 for the season and 3-1-1 in the Big Ten, host Purdue this week, travel to Min­nesota the following Saturday and finish at home against Ohio State. 
Schembechler said he hoped playing at home two ofthe last three weeks would work to Michigan's advantage. The Wolverines suffered their only defeat on the road -at Iowa. 
"It's extremely tough to play good teams on the road," Schembechler said. "I think the reason the home advantage has been so great is that all the teams are so great." 
Even if they were to win their last three games, the Wolverines would still need some help. Iflowa wins its last three games -against Illinois, Purdue and Minne~ota -there would be no way Michigan could catch the Hawkeyes. 
"The race is stil wide open," Schembechler Insisted. "The tie really didn't make that much dif­ference. 
"Ohio State has the best situation. 
They'll come in here with just the 
one defeat. But we play them, so 
that'll be interesting. 
"The tie didn't kill us at all. It 
didn't help us. It was better than 
seeing the ball going over. Now that 
would have been tragic." 
Illinois attempted a last-second field goal that would have defeated Michigan, but Wolerines linebacker Dieter Heren got a hand on the ball and it hit the crossbar, bouncing back onto the field as time ran out. 
Illinois still must play Iowa, In­
diana and Northwestern. Ohio State 
plays Northwestern and Wisconsin 
before the big finish in Ann Arbor on 
Nov. 23. 
The Wolverines came out of the 
game with several bumps and 
bruises. The most serious was a foot 
injury that will keep center Dave 
Herrick out of the Purdue game. 
Tailback Jamie Morris has a sore shoulder, flanker John Kolesar has a sprained ankle, free safety Tony Gant has a sore leg and linebacker Mike Mallory has a broken finger, sprained ankle and a hip pointer. 
"We're a little banged up, but it's about what you'd expect in the ninth week," Schembechler said. 


Bapp~ • 
............, 
•
Birthda~ : Fitz :
•
:
VauStud! + 
·~~-.········· 
Saint Mary's students! 
Need to publicize an event? Need to place a classified ad? Have a compliment or gripe? 

309 
Haggar Center 

ITaiPII 
NOV. 6TH AND 7TH VEDS. AND THURSDAY 7:00 9:00 11:00 HALL OF ENGINEERING 
$1.50 
The Observer Wednesday, November 6, 1985-page 13 
Spinks wants to defend his heavyweight title 
"->elated Pre!IS 
NEW YORK -Michael Spinks, the newly-minted International Boxing Federation heavyweight champion, relinquished his light heavyweight title belts yesterday and his promoter said a first defense would be announced within two weeks. 
Ex-champ Larry Holmes and Gerry Cooney were among the pos­sible opponents. 
Representatives of the World Uoxing Council, World Boxing As· sociation and IUF reclaimed the light heavyweight hardware, figuratively If not literally. Promoter Butch Lewis said Spinks will keep the ac­tual belts that identified him as the undisputed light heavyweight king. 
The.· decision to continue in the much more lucrative heavyweight division surprised no one. 
.. Michael's immediate plans are to defend the ht·avyweight title in February," Lewis said. "Negotiations have started with llolmes, Cooney and all the other guys in the top ten who call every five minutes." 
Spinks won the IBF title last Sept. ll in Las Vegas, Nev., outpointing llolmes over 15 rounds. After the 11ght, his first loss in 49 bouts, llolmes announced his retirement. 
But the ex-champ Is apparently con­sidering a rematch with Spinks, al· though the negotiations have not gone smoothly according to Lewis. 
"Larry still has the syndrome of being champion for seven years," Lewis said. "It's only been six weeks since he lost it. I appreciate that. lie's negotiating from emotion. Larry is still of the opinion that he's the champion. It's as if he's the champion and Michael is the chal· Ienger. It will make our negotiations go smoother when it hits him (that Spinks holds the title)." 
As for Cooney, Lewis said talks are stalled. 
"With Cooney, it's his manage­ment. There are two ways to negotiate. Either you negotiate for a payday or you negotiate because you feel your tighter can win the title. Cooney's manager is wavering outside of both of those. There's a long way to go when you're talking about a Cooney fight." 
From Spinks' standpoint, whatever Lewis decides wiU be fine. 
"I don't have a preference," he said. "It doesn't matter to me. I never get involved in picking opponents. I feel I have the talent, ability and knowhow to defeat anybody I go up against." 

Associated Press
Bbbie Hoffman: 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. · Unbeaten but
Just a ramiodar-­
once-tied Florida, barred from win· ning the title in its own conference,
--ha speaks tmica. 
is the new front-runner in the race for the national championship.
At nPlfJP in the Cantar for Social Concerns. 
The Gators achieved the No. 1 ranking in The Associated Press poll
Topic: nicaragua ( ny Su.mmel' Vacation, by 
in results announced yesterday, the first time they have held that posi·
A.. Hoffman). At eight in DOl 
lion. Should Florida survive some 
CTtx tn R•o•rtt sterd. Topic: Activism, 60s G 80s. 
tough games ahead and still be No. 1 in the final poll, it will win the na­tional title. However, no matter what it does in those remaining games, the Gators cannot win the Southeastern Conference title or ap· pear in a bowl game because it is ser­ving an NCAA probation out for past 
Wh Gainr:~ Dn? Wha are the people behind the staff box? What is the newspaper's crime policy? Wh•n is the newspaper put to bed? Wh•r• is the newspaper printed? Why did the newspaper cover that meeting? Cameta The Dbserver•s Dpen Hause and ta•t the •caap an yaur new•paper Thursday, Nov. 7 4:30 · 7 p.m. 3rd floor LaFortune Refreshments will be served. Prizes will be raffled.  

. F . 
-· 
....-.; 
~ ,... ~;­
*'~:"-"!
lft··· 
AP 
Michael Spinks (right) fends offLarryHolmes in resigned his light heavyweight titles yesterday and his last fight, in which he took the world intends to defend his heavyweight title soon. For heavyweight title away from Holmes. Spinks detais, see the story at left. 

Florida gets No. 1 ranking in Associated Press poll 
recruiting violations. 
Florida, which has won six In a row since Rutgers rallied from a 21· point second-half deficit to tie the Gators 28·28 on Sept. 14, is the fourth team to occupy the top spot this season. 
It received 42 of 59 first-place votes and 1, 159 of a possible 1, I80 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. 
Coach Galen Hall's squad ran Its record to 7 ·0· 1 with a I 4-I0 victory over Auburn last weekend, and moved up from second with the help of Ohio State's 22-13 triumph over Iowa. 
The Hawkeyes have been No. 1 for five consecutive weeks and were a unanimous choice the last two. 
"We're excited but also realize we have some tough games left," Hall said. "Our goal has been to win every week to give ourselves a chance to be there at the end." 
Penn State, Hall's alma mater and at 9·0 one of three unbeaten-untied major-college teams, climbed from third place to second with 15 first· place votes and I , I I 3 points. 
"I haven't given it any thought and I'm not going to give it any thought," Penn State Coachjoe Paterno said of the rankings. "I don't think weekly polls are worth a nickel, and I've said that consistently." 
Poll -page 11 
~ 
j 
I ~ 
The NCAA rates Florida's 
schedule as the toughest in the 
country, and remaining No. I won't 
be easy with Georgia, Kentucky and 
Florida State ahead. 
"We're very happy the voters looked at who we've played and what we've accomplished and put us where we are," Hall said. "We've got a long way to go, and a tough game 
l 
l ~ 
against Georgia Saturday." 
The Gators, who won their first· ever SEC title last November only to be stripped of the crown because of NCAA sanctions, are bidding to 
1 
become the third team to win the national title while on probation. j 
The others were Auburn in 1957 j and Oklahoma in 1974. Hall was an assistant at Oklahoma when the Sooners did it. He replaced Charley 
i 
Pell three games into the 19K4 
l
season and is I 5-0-1 while t-Xtend­ing the nation's longest unbeaten streak to I K games ( 16-0-2 ). 
1 
I 
I 
The Observer Wednesday, November 6, 1985 -page 14 
Saberhagen feels talks may become difficult 
Associated Press they do, I'd sure consider it. I wouldn't mind spending the rest of 
NEW YORK -Next, Bret Saber­my career with the Royals. They're a hagen will find out the value of his top organization. They treat their right arm. players well. Kansas City's a good 
"I had a one-year contract last community. I enjoy everything year. It's up. I'll renegotiate this about the Royals." year," the Kansas City Royals' ace His contract, which expired after pitcher said Monday after receiving the Series, also contained a $25,000 a minivan as Sport Magazine's Most bonus clause in the event Saber­Valuable Player in the World Series. hagen won the American League Cy 
"I expect I'll be sitting down and Young Award, a possibility following talking with the Royals the middle of his 20-6 record and 2.87 ERA. the month, maybe the end of it," With his Series MVP award, and Saberhagen said. "I can imagine possible Cy Young Award, Saber­having a tough time negotiating. hagen could join a pitching group There could be problem ,but I'd like that includes Sandy Koufax, Bob to think there won't be. I have a Gibson and the first Series MVP, the good relationship with the Royals, Brooklyn Dodgers' johnny Podres. and they have a good one with me Like Saberhagen, Podres pitched his and my agent (Dennis Gilbert of team to its first winning World 
Gymnastics Championships. The U.S. men's team Beverly Hills, Calif.)." Series. Saberhagen beat the St. Louis Car­dinals twice -6-1 in the third game "I can't see myself in their com­
and 11-0 in the seventh -as the pany yet, mainly because I haven't Royals staged the greatest comeback been around that long. I'm kind of in Series history by winning the title new to baseball," said Saberhagen, after losing the first two games at who pitched his high school team to 
Bulgarian women take early lead 
in gymnastic compulsory round 
home. In 18 innings against the Car­the Los Angeles city championship 

was eighth after the compulsories. The story below details action from yesterday's women's compul­sories, in which Bulgaria took the lead. 
Assodated Press with China scoring 190.725 points 
for an early second place. 
MONTREAL -Borjana Stojanova The United States, despite having 
performed steadily in compulsory three women fall off the parallel 
exercises yesterday to put herself bars, was third with 189.425 points, 
and her Bulgarian team atop the and 15-year-old Sabrina Mar ofMon­
early standings at the World Gym­terey Park, Calif., was fourth all­
nastics Championships in the Olym­around, tied with China's Yang Yanli 
pic Velodrome. at 38.375. 
However, the Soviet, Romanian "We had a weak start," said U.S. and East German teams had yet to coach Don Peters, noting that jen­perform the required exercises nifer Sey, Marie Roethlisberger and Tuesday night on the uneven paral­Olympian Pam Bileck all fell off the lel bars, the floor, the balance beam bars. "We just had opening kickoff and the vault. jitters. We fumbled the kickoff 
Stojanova scored a 38.650 of a today, but we were tough in the 
possible 40.0, with unspectacular fourth quarter." 
marks ranging from 9.625 on the 
floor and the beam to 9.725 on the West Germany was fourth in the 
vault, to take a lead of 0.05 points early team standings with 185.000 
over China's Huang Qun. points, followed by Australia, 
Diana Dudeva of Bulgaria was I80.275; Great Britain, 179.275; third in the individual standings France, 178.525; Brazil, I75.450; with 38.475 points, and the Bul­Belgium, 170.900, and Austria, garian team had 191.825 points, 167.050. 
Astros hire new manager 
Assodated Press Wagner said Berra still was under 
contract to the New York Yankees 
HOUSTON -Hal Lanier, who but his contract expires shortly. learned managing techniques under St. Louis' Whitey Herzog for five Lanier, a successful minor league seasons, was named manager of the manager in the Cardinals' system, Houston Astros yesterday, General said his experience in the National Manager Dick Wagner announced. League and Herzog's recommenda­
Lanier, a third base coach with the tion were major factors in his selec­Cardinals last season, signed a two­tion to replace Bob Lillis, who was year contract and said he hoped to fired Oct. 7. hire former major league manager Yogi Berra as an assistant coach. "I think Igot a great recommenda­
"I talked to Yogi yesterday and we tion," Lanier said. "Any time you get think he'll be a good addition," a recommendation from Whitey Lanier said. "It will be nice to have Herzog, you've really got something him there if I want to ask a question." on your side." 

~· "'~· 5atJrda«j -HN~'7.1.1 5.Ji.C. Lllltc -rnr~-t:oop.Jfl. -~oo 
Olympic all-around champion dinals, Saberhagen's earned run just three years ago and made the Mary Lou Retton has not competed average was 0.50. He struck out 10, majors in 1984. since last March, although she says yielded II hits and walked only one. "People are just now getting a she is not retired. The "lifetime contract" is a glimpse of me and realizing who I 
popular item in Kansas City. George am. Idon't see any reason why Ican't 
The Soviet Union takes a com­Brett, the Royals' slugging third continue to go out and play the way I fortable lead into Wednesday night's baseman, and relief ace Dan Quisen­have been playing. If I can keep men's team optionals, with the berry each have one. doing what I've been doing, maybe United States, 1984 Olympic team "I don't expect to be offered one," then I can relate to being up there champion, in eighth place. Saberhagen said with a smile, "but if with those guys." 

II 
I 
0 
$1 Imports! Come end have e good time !!! 
Shake it up with $1 Mixed drinks, end 8 HOT BAND ----COLD DR I NKSm FRI.-Lunch: Beer, Pizza, & Subs!!! 
Get Psyched for OLE MISS!!! 


FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1069 239-7521 

--------------------------------------~ 
------------~­
SH£ SAYS trS
SHe DOE'SNT 
THE' MOST FEEBLE
BELIEVE M'r' REASON 





FOR NCr WRITINe. 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 Chaps  
5 Interprets  
10 Word base  
14 Jal­ 
15 Melodeon  
16 Fish-eating  
bird  
17 Greeting words  
19 Holm oak  
20 Turncoat  
21  Flavoring  
syrup  
23 Proofreader's  
word  
24 Wash cycle  
word  
25 High nests  
28 Weather word  
29 Chat  
32 Speaker  
33 Peace symbols  
34 Before  
35 Vacation card  
words  
39 Expert  
40 Berth position  
41 Narcotics word 42 Operated  © 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc All Rights Reserved  
43 Eager  
44 Ledger entries  11  Shield border  
46 News  12 WWII draft  
47 Clan  group  
48 Breastbones  13 Words  
51  Sauntered  18 S-shaped  
55 Vehicle  molding  
56 Farewell words  22 Wash cycle  
58 QED word  word  
59 Scarlett ­ 24 Bank client  
60 Litany  25 Fighting  
61  "Auntie-"  26 Ms Jong  
62 Badgerllke  27 Ascended  
beast  28 Second crop  
63 Large amount  of hay  
29 Silly persons  
DOWN  30 Court order  
1 Oz actor  31  Brews  
2 Lily genus  33 Cheated  
3 Sunup  36 Alaska river  
4 Salad at times  37 Telephone  
5 Certain nine  worker  
6 Wearaway  38 Go-getters  
7 Malarial fever  44 TV need  48 Part of a word  52 Secular  
8 Pop  45 Detect  49 Home of 59A  53 This: Sp.  


Campus 
•12:30-3:30 P.M. -Blood Drive, Student Health Center, Sponsored by Lyons, Dillon and Zahm Halls, 
·­
•12:15 
P.M.-workshop, "Urbanization and Working Class Culture in Austri, Professor Robert Wegs, Notre Dame, Room 131 Declo Hall, Sponsored by Economics department, 

•4 
P.M. · Pax Christi Presentation on Internal and Internati, Center for Social Concerns Auditorium, 

•4:20 
P.M. -Physics colloquium, "Metal Multilayers", Ivan Schuller, Argonne National Laboratory, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall, 

•6:
15 P.M. -general meeting, Center for So­cial Concerns, Sponsored by Circle K, 

•6:30 
P.M. -presentadon, An effective mail campaign: resumes, cover letters, Mr. Paul Reynolds, Career and Placement Services, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, 

•7, 
9 AND II P.M. -movie, "Stripes", En­gineering Auditorium, Sponsore,d by Student 



Stupid clerks 
Activities Board, $I.50 
•7 
P.M. -Fellowship meeting, Keenan Chapel, Sponsored by Spiritual Rock of Notre Dame, 

•7 
P.M. -lecture, "Uving at Risk", Marriane Jackman Escobar, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by CSC, Helen Kellogg Institute for International Stu, 

•
7 P.M. -general meeting, ISO Lounge, LaFortune Student Center, Sponsored by In­ternational Student Organization, 

•
7 P.M. -Contemporary Egyptian FUm Series, "Cross Examination is Still Being Held", ETS Theater, Sponsored by Mediter­ranean/Middle East Concentration, 

•7 
P.M. -lecture, "Punctuation: Arrested Nar­rative in Contemporary , Craig Owens, Assistant editor of Art In America, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Exxon Distin­guished Visiting Scholar Series, 

•8 
P.M. -lecture, "An Evening with Abbie Hoffman", Abbie Hoffman, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Baked Ham lasagna Blanco Potato Pancakes w/applesauce &sour cream Beef Stroganoff 
TV Tonight 
6:30P.M.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
7:00P.M.  16  MASH  
22  Three's Company  
7:30P.M.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP In Cincinnati  
8:00P.M.  16  Highway to Heaven  
22  CBS  Special:  You're  A Good  
Man, Charlie Brown  
28  The Insiders  
34  River Journeys  
8:30P.M.  46  Renewed Mind  

9 Morenosy 46 Compose 50 Test 54 Used henna 
10 Rule 47 Cubic meter 51 Card game 57 Cry of triumph 
22 Charlie & Company 28 "North and South" 34 Andrea Doria: The Final Chapter 46 Lesea Alive 
Saint Mary's Spaghetti with Italian Sauce 
9:30P.M. 
10:00 P.M. 
10:30 P.M. 
11:00 P.M. 
11:30P.M. 
12:00'A.M. 
Manicotti Italian beefsandwich 
22 George Burns' Comedy Week 
16 St. Elsewhere 
22 The Equalizer 
46 Calvary Temple 
34 High Wire 
46 Everlasting Gospel 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 WSJV Newswatch 28 
34  Body Electric  
46  Praise the Lord  
16  TonlghtShow  
22  TJ.  Hooker/CBS  Late  Movie:  
"Uncommon Valor"  
28  ABC News Nightllne  

34 Film Dujour: "The Red House" 28 Eye On Hollywood 
. 

Notre Dame and St. Marys 1 
Starving Student I Discount Coupon 10% OFF 1 
14k Italian Gold and Sterling Silver I 
Chains, Charms, Bracelets & Rings I 
Students ;mt1 Staff must preserlt this Coupon or ID I for 10; Off. Offer Good Through 1 November 30, 1985. 
Great American Jewelers I 
University Park Mall -On The Concourse I Checks Welcome • VIsa (directly In front of Browns Sporting Goods) I Mastercard • American Express (219) 277-3353 I 
Christmas layaways 
·-------------------------~ 

S~orts 

I• 
L 

Wednesday, November 6, 1985-page 16 
Cross country team needs Collins in upcoiDing meets to gain success 
By MIKE SZ\'MANSKI vancing to Nationals. Wisconsin will along his teammates by taking over Sports Writer run away with it, but I think we can the pace. upset Purdue, among several other "We like to encourage each other. 
Although every runner on the tough teams." Everyone at some point in the race Notre Dame men's cross country Collins sees his role in practice as before his finishing kick, asks himself team must run well in the NCAA Dis­a catylst. why he ever wanted to run cross trict IV meet on Nov. I6 in order for "The top four have cut their country." the team to advance to the Nation­spread to ten seconds, and their en­Originally from Limerick, Ireland, als, Mike Collins, returning from a durance is great. But during the long Collins, whose father works for the pre-season injury, is the key to their season, it is tempting to become Irish Tourist Board in New York, success. sluggish and float through a moved to the U.S. during his junior 
The Irish, without Collins and top practice," said Collins. "I like to year in high school. He was a New runner Dan Garrett for most of the jump in the lead and push them, to York cross country state champ that season, have been trying to fill their wake them up." year, and second the next. He placed crucial fifth scoring position. 
fourth his senior year in the pres­
"Collins should be our second tigious Kinney Championships man in between Jim Tyler and Ron giving him All-American honors. Markezich. Those two along with "Kinney was legitimately the best John Magill-and Tom Warth have run race I have ever run because 26 of consistently well all season, but the the top 30 finishers were state fifth man has been up and down. Col­champs. It determined the best run­lins is a key runner," said coach Joe ners by actually bringing them Plane. together in one race," said Collins. 
Collins, a junior from Rye, N.Y., "In Ireland, high school cross finished 21st at last year's District IV country is a much more intense race, and is the eighth highest sport with no social members. There returning runner this year. were three guys on my team, but we However, coming off an injury at the could all run a 4: I 0 mile. The races Midwestern Collegiate Champion­were small but packed with quality." ships, he was an uncharacteristic As the top ranked under-I7 run­sixth man on the team. ner in Ireland, he represented his Collins has battled back from an Mike Collins country on the Irish National team. 
achilles tendon injury incurred Collins plans to stay in the U.S. to get before last year's track season. Scar Plane has had him lead the first his law degree since he has adjusted tissue built up after the tendons tore, mile purposely on occasion. to life here, and since he knows and doctors he visited were not op­Each man has a responsibility on American firms !Jetter than Irish timistic. the team. The first man according to firms. 
"They told me that I could never Collins, "must get out, compete, and "Besides, all my Irish friends are , run fast again. I could not accept finish in the top ten. The third man married, and already having kids," that," said Collins. "I was due for an must 'key ·off the leaders, and pull chides Collins. 
operation in September, but the trainers came up with a special strengthening technique that has really helped. 
Observer introduces 
"My summer training thus was sub-par. Right now, I am improving my conditioning in practice. I 
Sports Wednesday 
brought my weight down from a heavy 153 to 145. The fast en­In today's edition, The Obser­up to date bn the national sports 
durance comes from runs such as ver sports department in­scene. Sports cartoons from the 
the 24:30 five-miler that I led a few troduces Sports Wednesday, a UPI syndicate will also be 
days ago. 
new weekly page. Sports Wed­featured, and over the next few 
"I can't wait for Districts. I need to nesday will feature the latest weeks trivia questions will be 
key on certain people such as Tyler standings, statistics, and added to the page, along with 
to mark my performance. I am put­schedules for Notre Dame and some other new features. 
ting the pressure on myself; the 
Saint Mary's interhall and varsity 
coach and I know that I must run athletics, as well as Associated Sports Wednesday appears on 
second or third man for the team to Press polls and professional page I I of today's edition ofThe 
advance. 
sports standings to keep readers Observer. 
"We are in the toughest Division in the country, with four teams ad-
The Oboerver/Paul Pahorcaky 
Sophomore Irish quarterback Terry Andrysiak is shofl.Jn here in the game earlier this season at Purdue. Questions lingered on who would be the starting quarterback this Saturday against Missis­sippi after Gerry Faust's weekly press conference yesterday. For more details, see the story below. · 
Which quarterback? 
Spedal to the Observer 
Who will start at quarterback for Notre Dame on Saturday? The saga continued at yesterday's press con­ference with Irish coach Gerry Faust. 
Immediately following last week's 41-17 vic,tory over Navy, in which sophomore Terry Andrysiak com­pleted 11 of 17 passes for 195 yards, Faust seemed very certain about who would start at the helm for the Irish the following week. 
"Steve Beueriein is our starti,ng quarterback," Faust said then when asked ifAndrysiak would assume the starting role against Mississippi. 
But in Monday's Irish practice, Andrysiak spent all but the final five minutes directing the number-one unit. 
And when as~ed the same ques­tion at yesterday's press conference, Faust was not nearly so clear. 
"We have two fine quarterbacks, and that's it," he said. "No comment. Ifl keep (the media) guessing, I keep the opponent guessing. That's two styles of play they have to prepare for." 
Mississippi Head Coach Billy Brewer didn't seem concerned about who Faust would start, but he said he was impressed with "the kid who has played the last couple of weeks. He throws a rope, has a strong arm. Very impressive." 
That, of course, would be Andrysiak. But will it be him or Beuerlein Saturday? That question will most likely have to wait until game time to be answered. 
Saint Mary's flag football closes in on playoffs 
Fun, but fierce. 
That is the way Saint Mary's junior Janine Adamo describes this year's interhall flag football season. 
Although only three teams are participating (Regina dropped out and Augusta never fielded a team) the level of play has not suffered. 
"I personally wouldn't want to be out there," says McCandless Head Coach Fritz Duda. 
"It's very intense," comments Adamo. "We also have a lot of fun, though. All the coaches have worked hard in teaching us new plays and strategies." 
Not only is the competition intense between the three teams, but the three coachingstaffs also have a mini-rivalry going between them. 
Mike Kennedy and his Pangborn roommates coach Holy Cross, while his older brother Ray, coaches LeMans. Ray Kennedy and company room together in Morrissey as do Duda and his fellow coaches. 
Right now, McCandless is leading the pack with a perfect 7-0 record and is awaiting the result of Sunday's Holy Cross-LeMans game to see who it will meet for the the 1985 championship. The title game will be played later next week. 
In an earlier season game, Holy Cross defeated LeMans by a slim 7-6 margin. Despite his team's success this season, .Duda feels all three teams are fairly evenly-matched. "We've only been in control oftwo ofthe six games," he says. "The rest have been in overtime or won by one point. 
Duda and his staff had their work cut out for them when they took over the McCandless coaching duties. The team was 0-5last season. 
"We looked at it as a challenge," said Duda. "Overall I 

Kelly Portolese 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
think the advantage we have had is the enthusiasm the girls have shown. We have had a very high turnout rate at our practices." 
LeMans Head Coach Ed Bielski, who coached McCand­less last year, credits his former team for their fine play all year, but thinks his team's "late comeback threat" has been its strong point. 
"After being down at halftime we have come back to score in each game, losing by a point or a touchdown each time," he says. 
Seniors Cheryl Bonacci and Linda Cascio are the keys to the LeMans running attack. Defensively LeMans is led by lineman ChrisJack and safety Karen Krajcir. 
Holy Cross coach Mark Neroni will look to quarterback Barb Dorini and center Julie McNish as his team vies for a chance to avenge earlier season losses to McCandless ( 13­12, 13-6). 
"Our best defensive player is linebackerJanine Adamo," says Neroni. "But everybody on the team has played well." Neroni also sees the teams as being very evenly­matched. 
"A lot ofgames have been won on single plays," he ex­plains. "Just because McCandless is undefeated doesn't mean they will win the championship." 
McCandless' passing game appears to be its strong point. McCandless offensive coordinator Mike Galvin has been pleased with his team's performance thus far. 
"Our great quarterback and receiver corps have more than lived up to our nickname 'Air McCandless'," boasts Galvin. 
Defensive coach Bob Armour added that the McCand· 
less defense is a closely-knit group led by Elaine "Crash" 
Feuhrer and Kim Cramer. 
Before the big playoff game on Sunday, there will be a preview Friday when LeMans and Holy Cross meet on Madeleva field for the final regular season game. 
Intramural student coordinator Tricia Hannigan men­tioned that Notre Dame's intramural organizers have asked that the Saint Mary's all-star team play the Notre Dame all­stars in November as a benefit for Kevin Hurley. 
In addition to flag football, Hannigan also mentioned ot­her promising intramural activities which are getting underway in Angela Athletic Facility this month. Among them: 
•Co-recreational 
volleyball, which takes place every Wednesday night at 9, has enjoyed a big turnout on the part ofboth Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 

•A 
tennis ladder has been organized for Saint Mary's stu­dents. Double-elimination play for both singles and doubles competion will continue through mid-November. 

•
Beginning this week an aerobics class will be taught on Monday and Wednesdays at 10 a.m. and on Tuesdays. and Thursdays at 5 p.m. The classes will run until the end ofthe semester and a J5 fee will be charged. 

•
Basketball and volleyball team intramurals also will be getting underway soon. 



