SENATE-page4 
r-------------. 
VOL XIX, NO. 129 the indqx-ndt·nt •..tutknt Ill'\\ ~paper ~lT\ mg not n dame and ~ailll mary·, THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 1985 


booth helped raise funds for the Notre Dame Et­hiopian ReliefFund. 
Law professor named to Illinois Court of Appeals by the President 
By FRANK). MASTRO tion's judicial system and the searcher and is so dedicated to get­StaffReporter University of Notre Dame," said ting the just answer," said Link. David Link, dean ofthe Law School. Ripple has taught courses at Notre 
President Reagan has appointed "Ripple received recommen­Dame in many areas of law, includ­Notre Dame Law Professor Kenneth dations from local senators and the ing his areas of expertise. He has Ripple to the Court of Appeals for American Bar Association. He has written extensively for top level the 7th Circuit in the state ofIllinois. been given high ratings by the Amer­journals. His book,"Constitutional 
ican Bar Association," said Link. Litigation" was researched at NotreRipple's appointment is subject to Dame and published in 1984. 
Senate approval which is expected It is tradition for those appointed Prior to coming to Notre Dame in within the next two weeks. The to a government position to wait un­September of 1977, Ripple served asCourt of Appeals is the nation's til after Senate confirmation to dis­Special Assistant to the ChiefJusticesecond highest court. ahead ofa trial cuss their new position. Ripple was of the United States from 1973 to court and behind only the Supreme thus unavailable for comment. 
1977, and as Legal Officer to the Su­Court. 
As a judge, Ripple will hear all preme Court of the United States 
Reagan personally telephoned kinds ofappeals coming out oflower from 1972 to 1973. Ripple to inform him of his appoint­courts, including Constitutional is­"Ripple will give up his full-time ment to the court, which is made up sues, inconsistencies in opinions teaching status but will continue to of nine judges and three senior and procedural cases. teach one course each semester," 
"Ripple's expertise is clearly Con­said Link. "He will be a person with
judges. "I'm delighted about his nomina­stitutional law and litigation. His both the intelligence and determina­tion. I'm pleased for both the na-strength is that he is a diligent re-tion to do the job." 
Alcohol policy viewed as a success 
Editor's Note: The following article Cafarelli, assistant vice president for non-alcoholic alternatives for fun. ispart two of of a series examining residence life, the alcohol policy has Cafarelli, Goldrick and Lenz the after effects of the alcohol been "reasonably successful, one agreed that the majority of the stu­
policyon the Notre Dame/~t. Mary's should not expect 100 percent suc­dents have accepted things as they campuses. cess." He added that the student are and are working toward a full so­response to the alcohol policy has cial life within the limits of this 
been "positive." policy. By DIANE PRESTI According to John Goldrick, asso­They added that when a rule is StaffReporter ciate vice president for residence broken or a problem does arise, Stu­
life, Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice dent Affairs has been strictly follow­There are no students rallying on ing the punishments and the steps ofthe administration build­consequences established by the
Alcohol: 

ing. No one is gathering signatures policy makers. for petitions. And the alcohol policy One year When the policy was instituted
' ~ 
is celebrating its first birthday. many thought more students would
later

There is little doubt that this be moving off campus to escape year's spring is a little different from these rules. This, however, has not
lllillllli.lllillllm... ' 
last year's. happened. In fact, on-campus 
Although the alcohol policy is one president for student affairs, and housing requests have increased this year old, there are many questions Cafarelli, there have been those stu­year as compared to last. that remain unanswered. Has the al­dents who have walked a tight line Some have speculated that more cohol policy been successful? Will and those who have shown great people are going off campus on the there be any changes in it? Will it support for the alcohol policy. weekends because of the alcohol remain in effect? Said Lenz, "Student leaders have 
see ALCOHOL, page 6
According to Father Francis offered support" in the creation of 
Policies questioned by South African panel on campus 
By DAN McCULLOUGH matter with Zang in the past "and I News Editor think he teels as he was harshly treated." "Father Zang should be sharing 
A discussion of Notre Dame's his problems with us, not hiding be­South African investments took hind the closed doors in the admin­place last night minus one very im­istration," said Walshe. portant viewpoint --Notre Dame's. Professor David Burrell, Notre 
The South African Network, a Dame professor of philosophy and campus group which examines theology, said a lobbying effort is South African policies, invited Fa­needed for the sale of the particular the. Richard Zang, the University's University securities in companies ;nvestments officer, to participate in that have dealings in South Africa "I a discussion of the effects of U.S. in­think they can keep turning us vestment in South Africa and the down, but we can keep pressing University's present South African them," he said. investment policy. Burrell said that convincing the 
"I wrote to Father Zang to invite Notre Dame administration to him to participate in this discus­reexamine its South African invest­sion," said panel member Peter ment policy isn't going to be easy. Walshe, Notre Dame professor of "It's an uphill battle," he said. government and international Last night's panel discussion was studies and the director of the sponsored by the African and Black African studies program. "He wrote Studies Programs in coorperation back saying that he would not ap­with Notre Dame's student govern­pear at a meeting where I was pres­ment. The panel, which was made ent." up of Walshe, Burrell and Motumbo 
In a telephone interview last Mpanya, a Kellogg Fellow from night, Zang said, "There was a reason Zaire, discussed the possible ap­(for not attending) but I don't know proaches to aiding the black people if I want it to be in The Observer or of the Republic of South Africa not." through Notre Dame's investment 
"I really don't know who this policy. group is that met tonight, but that's Walshe was critical of the current not the reason I didn't attend," he Notre Dame policy of allowing in­said. "I guess you could say the rea­vestments in companies in South son is that the University's position Africa that adhere to the Sullivan has already been made well-known. principles, a list of guidelines that We have already published a state­protects the blacks' rights. "The es­ment." 
see PANEL, page 4 Walshe said he had discussed this 

Kilpatrick app~auds writer Red Smith 
By MARYBETH MURRAY ten with incomparable flavor. News Staff "Smith tuned his typewriter to the tune of mock seriousness and James Kilpatrick, America's made it play beautiful music." He most widely syndicated colum­cited Smith's beautiful music by nist and author of "The Writer's recalling phrases like "A rich wo­Art," praised Red Smith at his man on a cold day was turtled 
lecture last night, calling Smith "one of the all-time great spin­ners ofyarns." 
Kilpatrick's lecture, entitled "The Art of the Craft," was the third in the yearly Red Smith lecture series. The lecture series is in honor ofSmith, a 1927 Notre Dame graduate and one of the greatest sports writers in Ameri­can history. The series was in­itiated in 1982, the year of 

Smith's death. 
james Kilpatrick

Kilpatrick lauded Smith's abil­ity to analyze daily life, people, down into her minks." and sports teams. According to Kilpatrick further praised Red Kilpatrick, whether it was a Smith for the integrity of his feature sports story or a quip writing. While maintaining his about the man on the street, "Red wholesome view, he said, Smith Smith had something to say." "covered (stories) with a solemn 
"He looked, but the point is, he irreverence." looked intently" at all that he Kilpatrick, whose reputation saw, Kilpatrick said. According to of being as colorful and witty a Kilpatrick, this intensity with speaker as he is a writer drew stu­which Smith looked at life gave dents, professors, and South his writing a distinct style. Bend residents to hear his 
Moreover, Kilpatrick said, 
see KILPATRICK, page 6
anything Smith wrote was writ­

~ ~-----~------­
The Observer Thursday, April 18, 1985 -page 2 
In Brief 
Saint Mary's held hall elections yesterday. Michaeleen Green and Patty Fallon captured the presidency and vice presidency in Augusta. Lori Janko and liz Meehan carried LeMans. Holy Cross residents elected Lenore Massa and Maureen Erny while McCand· less residents choose Halane Young and Mary Costa. The new presi­dent and vice president of Regina are Mary Flynn and Usa Hagen. ­
The Obseroer 

Of Interest 
A public auction will be held by the Notre Dame se­curity department tonight. A variety of items including bicycles, watches, calculators, and other miscellaneous items which have been abandoned on Notre Dame's campus will be put on the auction block. The items can be inspected beginning at 6:30 and the auction will start at 7.-The Obseroer 
Italian Culture Week continues with the Italian opera "Francesca di Rimia" tonight at 6:30 in the Media Center ofthe Cushwa Leighton Library. Also tonight from 7 to 8 is a symposium on the fourth production of Dario Fo's "We Won't Pay, We Won't Pay," in the Lab Theater of Washington Hall. The symposium is sponsored by the Communication and Theater Department. Also, tomorrow morning at 11: 1 5, Dr. Eduardo Lebano, president of the American Association ofTeachers ofltalian will speak on "What Makes Italians Tick" in the faculty lounge of Memorial library. -The Obseroer 
Saint Mary's English department is presenting readings by local writers this week and next week in Cushwa-I.eighton Library. Today, widely published author Robin Hemley will read from his stories. Monday, Joan Mcintosh, a local poet, will present poetry readings, and next Wednesday, April 24, poet Phyllis Moore, an instructor in the English department, will read from her poetry. All readings are open to the public at no charge and will take place at 4:30 in the South Lounge on the second floor of Mezzanine. -The Obseroer 
What do you think about student government at Notre Dame? Student Body President Bill Healy will be looking for your opinion at an open forum tonight at 9 in the Lafortune little Theater. -The Obseroer 
Emil T. Holinan, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, will be in the North Dining Hall during dinner tonight en­couraging students to attend the ND/SMC Charity Ball: A Family Response to the Crisis in Ethiopia. Hoffman also will be selling tick­ets to the event, which will be Saturday at 9 p.m. in Stepan Center. Tickets are S6 per person and S 10 per couple. -The Obseroer 
AnTostal Kisser Registration has been ex­tended. lbose interested in registering may do so today from 4 to 5 
p.m in the New Orleans Room of Lafortune. -The Obseroer 
The Schiller Institute is sponsoring a video tape and discussion on economics and third world development proj­ects. The program will begin at 7:30 p.m. in the Lafortune Little 
Theater.-The Obseroer 
Weather 
Ahh, paradise. Sunny, windy and warm today with highs in the low to mid 80s. Mostly clear tonight with lows in the mid 50s. Partly sunny and warm tomorrow with highs in the low to mid 80s. -AP 
,----·--;-:-]
lli::6: 
I 
j 
The Observer 

Tb~ Obenv~r (liSPS ~99 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except during exam and vacation periods. Tb~ O~r Is published by the srudeniS of !he llnivenlry of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may !)., purchased for I30 per year ( 120 per ..,_ mester) by writing~ Obeerve~. P.O. 
Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 4M~6. 
~ ~ Is a meml).,r of Tb~ "-><:Wrd ~--All reproduclioo righ!S are re..,rved 
Today's is.,ue was produced by: 

Design Editor.............................. Anne Long /Jesign Assistant ........... Mark Mclaughlin Layout Staff. ........................... Ruth Ben nell Typesel/ers ......,. ................... Jennifer Blgon News Editor ............................. Scon Bearhy Copy Editor ...................... Mark Pankowski Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Mary Ellen Har­
rington 
Viewpoint Layout ............... Priscilla Karle Features Copy Editor .. Margaret McCabe Features Layout............................ Tom Hall NIJ Day Editor ......................Allee Gromer SMC Day Editor............... Toni Rulherford Ad Design ......... Anna Marie Furleigh, Usa 
Dickinson Photographer ............................ Phil Deeter 
Notre Dame is a Catholic soap opera with low ratings 
Notre Dame -The Catholic soap opera -is about to 
wrap up another successful season with its worst 
ratings yet, according to the latest Odud poll. 
The joy ofNotre Dame, as with all soap operas, is that one can miss a whole semester ofepisodes and not miss any of the action. Oh, perhaps a character or two has been killed off, but Notre Dame suffers too many char­acters away. 
Other soap operas have plots that creep forward. Notre Dame's repeats itself. 
Each fall, for example, big guys battle it out for first string and then fight for the Irish knowing all too well their performance is being judged by viewers used to seeing the likes of George Gipp, Johnny Lujack and Joe Montana. In football, the war being waged tests strategy and physical strength. Each play has meaning. 
As football fades from the picture, the extras -the students -begin in earnest to make the passage into adulthood. How they act could determine future leads. 
Halfway through each season though, the finals curtain falls on those actors unable to pass their screen 

Joe Murphy 
Viewpoint Editor 
only as a coach, but as a person. 
Remember the verbal barrage between administra­tors and students when the alcohol policy was pro­posed. 
I am not saying these campus characters are corrupt, but rather comical. They are legends in their own minds. Stars whose radiance is blocked by a black whole between their ears. 
I am one viewer who has grown weary of watching 
scene after scene where characters argue over nothing ­for nothing. These actors make statements that have no meaning. 
There is a difference be­
tests. The plot, then, putters tween characters and men along until the season ends ofcharacter. five months later without Characters fight battles in much ofa cliff-hanger. which no one wins or loses 
The predictable plot anything. Their triumphs serves its purpose: Students have no meaning. They are concentrate on writing the the cynics, content to tear scripts which they will then other people down rather follow for the rest of their than build themselves up. lives. As the camera continues 
I began this column by to roll, I suggest these char­calling Notre Dame a soap acters remember that they opera and it is. The struggles are being watched not only which occur on television by their peers but by their 
soap operas occur at Notre 
Dame. People play off each other. Disputes develop. Tempers rise. And a friend today may be an enemy to­morrow. 
But Notre Dame is not just a soap opera; it is a Catho­lic soap opera. I expect characters on television to blow conflicts out of proportion, to exaggerate truths, to form entangling alliances, to resort to senseless name calling, to verbally kill each others' characters and to put their personal interests first. I do not expect to watch scenes such as these unfold on this campus. 
The Notre Dame plot, based upon Catholic beliefs, has turned nasty for no reason. 
It is one thing to argue about the role ofstudent gov­ernment and the musical ability of Tommy Shaw. It is another for supposedly sophisticated performers to wage personal attacks against each other. 
Remember for example, the recent election scandal, which divided even further leaders who were never_ united. 
Remember the attacks last fall on Gerry Faust, not 
THE ANSWER IS 
.I 
vn11 YOU 
HELP 
SAVE BABIES 


parents. 

Put your performances 
into perspective. 

I urge other viewers to write the Odud network and express their displeasure at the amount of verbal vio­lence and idiotic insults taking place among certain characters on this campus. 
Currently, viewers are only threatening to turn the channel, but ifthe producersofNotre Dame aren't care­ful many viewers, like myself, might just turn the set off. 
It has gotten to the point where I can't wait for the commercial breaks. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
-----~----~ 


Tippecanoe Place. We are extending Spring Break with a special offerfor students. Bring this ad in/or a special price 'Break'. 
$1.00 OFF ourfabulous Sunday Brunch Good on thefollowing Sundays: 
April 14 April21 

670 W. Washington St. --Reservations Required--234 -9077 
-----------------------" 

-----~------­
The Observer Thursday, April18, 1985-page 3 
N aisbitt looks ahead to future world trends 
other.

the real world, 
Wygant Floral CO.Inc.
but what 
·"CJ'Qowerrg fprr oQQ occogLo~~
about yourcar? 
Come in and Browse 
327 lincolnway 232-3354
~YQ 
' . 
. 
"'·> 

EUROPEONSALE! 
Ford and Lincoln-Mercury have $400 for graduating seniors toward the 
AND ICEIANDAIR INCLUDES AU THESE EXTRAS: 
0 Free wine with dinner, cognac after-in flight. 0 Free deluxe roundtrip 
purchase of selected cars and trucks. 
motorcoach between Luxembourg and select cities in Germany, Belgium and Holland. 0 Reduced train fares to Switzerland and France. 0 Super Saver 
Ford Motor Credit also has preapproved credit for qualified graduating seniors. 
Kemwel car rentals at $59 per week in Luxembourg. 
Offers end August 15, 1985. For more information call Ford College Graduate 
WE'RE THE ONLY WAYTO FLY TO THE BREATHTAKING BEAUIY OF ICEI.AIID. 
From a 24-hour stopover to a grand tour of two weeks or more, W( have the 
Purchase Program Headquarters at 1-800-321-1536. 
perfect package for a visit to Iceland, Europe's most beautifully kept secret. 
All fares subject to change and $3.00 international departure tax. All fares valid 4/14-6/8185, except Orlando-5/1-5/31185. For information, restrictions and reservations for all of lcelandair's low fares, calllcelanrlair toll-free at 1-800-223·5500. In New York City 757-8585. 
RDRD•UNCOLN•MERCURY 

ICELANDAIR IW
oJ:z:r·m~tt.1llt1N~I·!If•zrma~Im,wiJ-I'­

By CINDY RAUCKHORST 
and MIRIAM HILL 
Copy Edttors 
"We're in the process ofreinvent· ing the world we live in ... My God, what a fantastic time to be alive," said john Naisbitt, author of best· selling "Megatrends." 
Naisbitt explained his observa· tions of the positive and negative trends transforming today's society in a speech to a capacity crowd of 2,000 at the Elco Theatre in Elkhart last night. 
Naisbitt, the chairman of The Naisbitt Group, a firm that advises companies such as General Motors, IBM, Merrill Lynch, and ABC on sig­nificant social trends, counsels heads of state both in the United States and abroad. 

But Naisbitt's predictions influ­The Observer/Phil Deeter ence not only business and political leaders -young people also benefit
Insomnia 
from his 30 years ofbusiness experi­ence. He encouraged students at his
Ray Mulera doesn't seem to be able to get any all. Both are taking time out to enjoy yesterday's 
lecture to "learn how to learn," a
sleep, butjoe Whalen isn't having any trouble at sunny day. 
skill which will prepare them to adapt to different challenges in the job market. 
People today switch career direc­tions more than once in their lifetime, causing a movement from job specialization to generalization. This trend will continue in the future, he said. 
Students, therefore, should ex­

Thetis no 
plore many possibilities before choosing a specific career. "Education is too often often thought of as a step to another stage
doubt you'~ going 
of life. But education is life, not a step to life," he said. A liberal education has the added benefit of making students more at­
tractive to corporations who are looking for young, entrepreneurial 
tomaketttn 
types. In the future, the most suc­cessful companies "will reconstitute as tederations of entrepreneurs," he said. 
"If companies are smart, women will play a strong, if not equal, role in the entrepreneurial growth trend." Naisbitt said approximately one­third of new entrepreneurs are wo­men. 
Because the old industrial society is evolving into one which relies primarily on information, human re­sources are the key to future growth, Naisbitt said. 
"Human beings will make or break our companies," he said. 
"This new emphasis on the quality of human resources is occurring at a time when the new economy is ac­celerating and the number ofpeople entering the work force is going down," he said. "Starting in 1986, more people will leave the work force than enter it for the rest ofthis century," he said. 
In his soon-to-be:Ceieased book,"Reinventing the Corpora­tion," Naisbitt discusses how corpo­rations can survive and be successful in the new economy. Last night he predicted the job market will become a seller's market, forcing corporations to invest in the per­sonal growth of their employees. 
Companies, he said, will have to 
offer benefits like stock ownership, 
profit sharing and flexible work 
schedules to attract the "best and 
brightest" ofthe new generation. 
Naisbitt said the recent growth in the U.S. economy has paralleled growth in countries such as Japan and West Germany, contributing to the development of one global eco­nomy. In this economy, countries function as a unified whole rather than just trading between one an­




The Observer Thursday, April18, 1985-page 4 
Student Senate rookies start terms; government restructuring a goal 

By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
Senior StaffReporter 
"l hope that we can put a lot ofthe things that happened behind us. We are starting at zero and can only go up," said Student Body President Bill Healy at the first meeting of the new Student Senate last night. 
Healy said the senate has "good potential," and added, "We should start anew and push forward." 
The senate still will have to deal with restructuring attempts, however. Chris Abood, District 1 senator, said he will continue to work for progress in restructuring.Panel discussion "l won't let it die," he said. "The last senate spent a whole year trying to 
Motumbo Mpanya and Notre Dame Professor Peter Walsbe dis­
restructure. We should learn from 
cuss University investments in South Africa. Story continued 
their mistakes." 
below. 

Abood challenged Healy's deci-
Panel 
continuedfrom page 1 
sential point is that the Sullivan prin­ciples deal with the workplace and have no impact outside of the fac­tory gates," he said. 
Walshe cited specific problems with the University's policies of dis­closure of their investments and the surveillance of the companies in South Africa in which they invest. 
"With disclosure, we don't know how Notre Dame invests its funds," he said. "As far as surveillance is con­cerned, if we are committed to the Sullivan principles, what procedures do we have for judging the perfor­mance of the companies we invest in?" 
Walshe said that Leon Sullivan, the author of the Sullivan principles arid a Detroit reverend who is on the board of directors of General Motors, has since "tightened" his principles. The revised principles, said Walshe, include the free move­ment of black workers from job to job and that corporations which subscribe to the principles support recension of all apartheid laws. 
"There is a real greyness here," said Walshe. "I looked up that word 'recension' in the Oxford dictionary and found out it means 'revision.' " 
Walshe said it is not revision ofthe Jaws that support apartheid, but a suspension of them. 
"We must examine whether or not the investment policy has actu­ally strengthened the apartheid sys­tem, whether it has polarized blacks and whites or whether it has been putting pressure on the South African to negoti~te~he said. 
Walshe proposed a "revised policy for Notre Dame invest­ments." It included "the Sullivan principles plus." According to Walshe, the University should adopt the expanded Sullivan principles and that it should interpret the word "recension" in that policy as "rejection" rather than "revision." 
He continued that the University should "support resolutions that fa­vor a moratorium on further Univer­sity investments in South Africa.'' 
Burrell said that the net rate of 

profit from investment in corpora­
tions that do business in South Africa 
is 18.7 percent while the average 
world net profit is 16 percent. 
"What we must ask ourselves is if 
these 2 percentage points are worth 
it," he said. 
"The issue is not whether a firm should disinvest but whether or not an institution, such as this Univer­
sity, should themselves rerram from contributing to investment or should withdrawal from firms in South Africa," said Burrell. 
He recalled a conversation he had with an American businessman who had just established a plant in a third­world country. He said the man ex­plained that it was cheaper to pay labor there dlan in America. As to the treatment of the workers, the 
mansaid,"Wecouldnevergetaway M th h• I 'h•t ' 
with it at home," according to Bur-0 er Ires c 0 wn as I man 
reiI. 
Mpanya criticized the argument Associated Press that disinvestment would only hurt South African blacks. "Since when A mother hiring a clown to 
has the welfare of the blacks been throw a pie in the face of a school 
the concern ofbig business," he said. official at her daughter's graduation "It would be a very poor business was found guilty of breach of peace practice to use this kind ofindustrial Wednesday, but innocent ofbribery charity. Black people want to bear and tampering with a witness. 
the burden of being hurt by disin­Mary Diorio reacted to the verdict vestment." by crying and hugging her attorney. "It hurts the pocket book. That's Outside court she said, "I'm thrilled. the real reason companies won't dis­I couldn't be happier. I've never invest," Mpanya said. been happier in my life." 
• 
•

• 
•

• 
•

• 
•

• Happy •
• 
22nd • • Birthday •
• • 
Carrie Altergott II
• • •
• 
siou that the revised constitution, passed by the Hall Presidents Coun­cil, was passed as an adoption from the old The senate backed up Healy's senate, and not as a proposal. 
Because an adoption cannot be brought before the senate, the revised constitution could not be put into effect. Healy argued that the adoption, which came from the old senate, was from .a "nullified" body and therefore no good to begin with. 
Abood said he felt the HPC passed the new constitution as a proposal and it could be brought before the senate. The senate body, in a vote, sided with Healy. For the revised constitution to be brought before the senate now, the HPC would have to repass it. 
Abood hopes to get a new com­mittee established, at the senate's 

It's never too late to become a bronze God or Goddess! 
Deepen that Spring Break
• 

tan. CaD us at 277-7026
• 
• 

TAN--HAWirfAN 
• 

J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road
•
• 

Mishawaka 


•
a un1que opportunity for 
Math/Science 
(M•jors/Minors/Aptitudes) 
For you and for the world. Peace Corps will combine your education with training to prepare you for a volunteer position in: • Education • Fisheries • Health • Agriculture • Forestry or other areas. You'll meet new people, learn a new language, experience a new culture and gain a whole new outlook. And while you're buildi_ng your fu~ure, you'll be helping people m developmg countrres learn the basics o1 technological advancement. 
Apply NOW for summer openings! Pick up application in your Placement Office, or call 1-800-621-3670 
next meeting, that will work toward 
a restructured student government. 
In other business, District Senator John Ginty, informed the senate of various charges the Notre Dame Credit Union levies against Notre Dame students but not against its other customers. Ginty pointed to a new $2 service charge that will be levied against those with less than SSOO in their checking account. "I think they mistreat us," he said. 
Healy said students could affect changes in the Credit Union. "If the student body started deserting the Notre Dame Credit Union, it would be in big trouble," he said. 
The senate also approved the new Student Government Cabinet as well as reappointing Meghan Bren­nan as secretary of the senate and Brian Holst as parliamentarian. 
Her attorney, joseph Ganim, said "Two out of three ain't bad. I'm happy with the two not guilties. We may appeal on the third." 
Members of the jury refused to comment, saying they had agreed among themselves not to discuss the 
case. 

Authorities had said Mrs. Diorio, 37, paid a balloon-store owner, Robert Fuller, 534.95 plus tax and a n 0 tip to stuff a pie in the face of William Stansfield, a dean at Fair­field's Tomlinson Junior High School, in front of 1,000 people at an eighth-grade graduation ceremony in June. 
She and her husband, James, were also charged with trying to scare Ful­ler and offering him S I 0,000 not to tell police she was behind the prank. 
Diorio wiJJ be tried separately. 
Stansfield had disciplined Mrs. Diorio's daughter, Allison Barbeau, in May. lbe state claimed the pie was thrown in revenge. 

~--­

The Observer Thursday,-April18, 1985-page 5 
Correction 
Ted Turner attempts takeover of CBS 
Because of an editing error, Bud Luepke was not included in yesterday's Observer promo­tions article. Luepke, a sopho­more from St. Louis, Mo., has been promoted to senior staff reporter. 
Because of a reporting error, some facts in the Campus Life Council story were wrong. The manager of the Student Activities Board is a member ofthe council. During Student Body President Rob Bertino's administration there were eight meetings of the CLC. 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -CBS Inc. kept its cor­porate eye wide open yesterday at the network's annual meeting, as its stock prices soared and broadcast­ing maverick Ted Turner moved toward a hostile takeover. 
The nearly three-hour meeting ended with no indication Turner was any nearer to acquiring the company than when the day began. 
However, Turner's lawyers met late yesterday afternoon with the Federal Communications Commis­sion's general counsel to tell him they planned to file papers today detailing Turner's intended takeover of CBS Inc., said William Russell, a spokesman for the FCC in Washington, D.C. 
Published reports had said a takeover bid by Turner, who owns 80 percent of Turner Broadcasting System Inc. and operates Cable News Network, could come after the CBS meeting, which drew only about 100 of the corporation's 20,000 shareholders. He reportedly would be aided by his corporation's investment banker, E.F. Hutton & Co. ­
Turner's lawyers gave no details of their plans to the FCC's general counsel,Jack Smith, Russell said. 
The FCC wasn't sure what form the filing will take, he added. "We're not sure because we don't know how they intend to do it," Russell said. 
The "CBS Evening News" re­ported yesterday that a Turner 
'1984 
M&FMINC 

CO-SPONSORED BY 
S-rUDE•-rAC-riYI-riES BOARD 
FORD DEALER LOCATION/TIME 
BASNEYFORD Stepan Center Area 9:00 a.m.-3:00p.m. 
lawyer informed the Federal Com­munications Commission that Turner's formal application for ap­proval to take over the network would bellied today. 
Turner, who was in New York, refused comment. 
Chairman Thomas Wyman reiterated that CBS will resist any bid for controlling interest in its stock. Earlier this month, the net­work secured a Sl.5 billion line of credit from several banks that could be used to fight a hostile takeover. 
"Over the past several months, we have faced challenges from several parties who would either oversee or overturn the organization that has provided news and information for 58 years to the American public," Wyman said. 
"We are quite clear that the in­tegrity ofCBS news and the indepen­dence of CBS news are inextricably linked. Those who seek to gain con­trol ofCBS in order togain control of CBS news threaten that indepen­dence and integrity and this country," he added. 
Toward the end of the sharehold­ers' meeting, Wyman was asked whether he felt Turner was "moral" enough to run CBS. 
"I have expressed something less than total enthusiasm in the past for the thought ofhim managing this en­terprise," Wyman said. 
Former anchorman Walter Cronkite, a director of CBS, said Tuesday the network had always given its news division freedom to operate. 


Ford is back on campus with FORD GREAT START DAY! Come see, kick, and feel the latest cars and trucks from Ford Divi­sion and ask about the special values available to your campus community. 
Fill out the entry form below and drop 
it off at FORD GREAT START DAY The winning entry will be drawn at the end of your school's 
GREAT START DAYevent! 
1 ..
---------­
I 

I 'I~l{ II (Complete WIN A SAILBOARD FROM FORD! this form for a chance to win. Please print.) 
1Name ---------------­1Address (home) ___________ 
I 

Phone Number (__)-------­I MajorI 
Graduation Date 

I Make and Year of Vehicle Owned 
I

I Did you purchase your car 0 new or 0 used? 
I 
HOW TO WI!'i: By attending your school's Ford Great Start Day event you can be eligible to win a sail board from Ford Division of Ford MowrCompany. just fill om this emry form and drop it in the box marked "Ford Sail board Drawing." TheI winning cnn-y will be drawn at the end of the Ford Great Start Day event. Winner _ru:ed not be present. Good luck! _ 
The Observer Thursday, April 18, 1982 -page 6 
Golden arches extend campus wide in new McDonald's delivery service 
By TRACYSCHINDELE 
News Staff 
Hungry students rejoice. 

Effective last Monday, McDonald's Campus Airlift has ex­panded its services and will now deliver McDonald's items every weekday night to all Notre Dame residence halls. 
The service was begun by Roseland's McDonald's March 28, 
but  until  Monday  was  limited  to  
deliveries  to Keenan and Stanford  
halls.  

The Airlift menu now includes nearly all the items McDonald's of­fers regularly. However, the grocery service originally advertised was eliminated. According to Charles 
Watson, owner of the Roseland 
McDonald's, the grocery service's 
only purpose was to generate initial 
awareness ofthe Airlift. 
So far there has been no official word on whether or not the service meets with University approval. The question of approving the Campus Airlift has opened up issues such as insurance coverage on those making deliveries to the campus. According to Director ofStudent Activites,Joni Neal, the issue will not be ap­proached for a few weeks. "It may mean that a unified university policy may have to be set up concerning businesses making deliveries on 
campus," said Neal. 
Watson, a Notre Dame graduate, said he expects the service to be popular with students. "When I was a student at Notre Dame, many stu­dents felt locked onto campus. There is more mobility now, but there are still a lot of students who don't get out, especially during the week," said Watson. 
The Airlift takes orders and makes deliveries Sunday through Thursday evenings and delivery time averages between 30 and 40 minutes. The Airlift driver calls to confirm all or­ders 20 minutes after they are made to check for crank calls and to give the expected time ofdelivery. 
Watson is open to new ideas for the Airlift. He began late in the year for testing purposes. Said Wat­son,"We are trying to find out when the students want the service." 
Reading highlighted at colloquium 
By LAURA S. GRONEK 
News Staff 
"All forms of rituals ofreading are to be cherished, encouraged, and most of all utilized," said Ray Browne, a professor at Bowling Green University, speaking Monday at the Friends of the Memorial Li­brary's Fourth Annual Colloquium entitled "American Popular Reading." 
Browne, director of The Popular Press and chair of popular culture at Bowling Green, stated that people either read "thoughtlessly and ob­sessively to pass the time from birth to death," or tend to discount the benefit of reading as "mere enter­tainment," focusing solely on its aca­demic and intellectual value. 
Browne stressed the importance ofusing all ofone's senses to share in the experiences of the author, and introduced the topic of popular cul­ture. He later discussed how film, mass media, ethnic studies, and even architecture are mediums by which we can learn about our history and about life. 
The second halfofthe colloquium was presented by Professor Michael Marsden, editor of The Journal of Popular Film and Television and au­thor of several books and articles on American popular culture. 
Marsden emphasized that books serve a very crucial purpose. Accor­ding to Marsden, books offer new in­sights and psychological release, and they leave the reader better able to handle the real world. 
Marsden centered his lecture around the popular fiction of Louis L'Amour and Father Andrew Greeley, two authors who share traditions in America's in­dustrialized society through the mass media. Their works in printed form do not call attention to literary writing styles, but rather follow the informal approach of oral tradition, said Marsden. 
L'Amour and Greeley are success­ful storytellers, observed Marsden, because they form a unique, per­sonalized bond between themselves and their audience. According to Marsden, their stories provide "an esc'lpe into another world, through the refracted lens of the story world." 
Prosecuters say rapist is guilty 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Prosecutors who helped put Gary Dotson back be­hind bars say they have no doubt he is guilty of rape, although one ack­nowledges she at first believed Cath­leen Crowell Webb's story that she had lied about being attacked. 
Kilpatrick 
continuedfrom page 1 
speech, said that writers of today should emulate the clarity and quality of Smith's writing style. "There must be some clear notion of where we want to be when we finish writing." 
Some of the shortcomings of today's writers, according to Kil­patrick, are that they do not take enough pains with their writing, they do not edit enough, and they do not adjust their sentence struclUre well enough. 
"It has always been important for the writer to search for the right word," said Kilpatrick, adding that all writers must "find time for reflec­tion." 
Alcohol 
Continuedfrom page 1 
policy. "Some think (the number of students leaving campus on weekends) has increased but we don't know this for sure," said Goldrich. 
Cafarelli, Goldrick, and Lenz said they had no knowledge ofthe recem bar raids, off-campus party raids, or the recent closing of Corby's. They said there always have been raids and there probably always will be. 
According to a statement made by 
Peggy Frossard, 33, a Cook County assistant state's attorney, said that when she first heard Mrs. Webb recant, "My gut reaction was that she was telling the truth." 
But the other prosecutor, J. scott Arthur, 35, said the 1979 case against Dotson was overwhelming. 
Arthur and Ms. Frossard handled 

A quote ofSmith's, Kilpatrick said, is imperative to anyone wanting to pursue a career in jounalism. 
The special language and style that comes to experienced writers, said Kilpatrick, quoting Smith, func­tions as "a stockade that gives in­siders the cozy sense of belonging and mystifies outsiders and keeps them outsiders." 
Earlier in the afternoon, Kilpatrick gave a press conference in which he gave more advice to aspiring jounalists. Foremost, he said, "Edit your copy one more time." And to develop good writing style, Kil­patrick said, it is important to read and write extensively. 
At the root ofwhat Kilpatrick con­siders to be a relatively poor age of journalists is the lack of a solid edu­cation. He said that a stronger em­phasis needs to be put on English studies and disciplines such as Latin. 
Kilpatrick stated that because stu-

Father William Beauchamp last year, Father Hesburgh had said that if stu­dents did not cooperate with the new policy, the campus would go dry. There has been no discussion of a dry campus, according to Goldrick. "I think we've made some progress," he said. 
It was not the aim of this policy to abolish drinking on campus, instead, said Goldrick, the aim was "to make a statement that we believe that our students are capable of learning re­sponsible drinking habits." 
If the aim had been to abolish drinking, Notre Dame would have disallowed all alcohol consumption, the state's case during recent hearings on whether to free Dotson. Neither was involved in the original case. 
Mrs. Webb, 23, now of Jaffrey, N.H., testified du.ring the 1979 trial that she was raped by Dotson in a car in July 1977. 
dents presently are receJVmg a poorer education, basic qualities such as proper grammar and syntax are missing from current journalism. Today's writers, he said, have "lost some of the skills in communication that we used to have." 
Kilpatrick is optimistic about newswriting in the future, however. He said reporting is headed in a spe­cialized direction which will create better news coverage. 
Kilpatrick, who was first pub­lished at the age ofsix in a children's magazine, plans to continue in his field until 1989, after devoting 25 years to the perfection of his art. After he retires, however, Kilpatrick plans to write another book be­cause, like Red Smith, Kilpatrick feels he will"die ifhe doesn't write." 
James Kilpatrick will be speaking to classes of American SlUdies courses today at 1 p.m. in the Library Lounge. 
according to Cafarelli, Goldrick, and 
Lenz. 
By allowing alcohol in the rooms ofthe students, Lenz says "we are on the cutting edge "ofa possible prob­lem arising. The responsiblity lies in the hand of the student, she said. 
The alcohol policy was not imple­mented only to reduce University liability, Cafarelli said, but that was "part of it." He said, however, the issue of liablity "was not what in­itiated the committee." 
"If liability were the question we would have gone dry," Goldrick said, adding, "I am very proud of the Notre Dame student body." 
WHY CORNELL? 
A great location. Study at one of the most beautiful Ivy League campuses and spend the ~urrimer in the magnificent countryside of the Finger Lakes region. Located on forty,mile-Iong Cayuga Lake, Ithaca is asmall cosmopolitan city with restaurants, nightlife and all the urban advantages. 
A great university. Choose from a remarkable variety of courses and learning opportunities-more than )00 courses taught by distinguished Cornell faculty members. The curriculum in-eludes computer science, fine arts, pre-law and pre-med studies, and languages. Sign up for a few weeks or the entire summer. Courses are offered in three-, six-, and eight-week sessions. 
A great adventure. Explore beautiful lakes and parks, spectacular waterfalls and ravines. Enjoy swimming, sailing, tennis, golf. climbing, camping, soaring, biking, birding, and hiking. A 
rich and lively schedule of free outdoor con­certs and theater makes Cornell an ideal place to meet people and make friends. 
Why Cornell? Because we love summer as much a-; you do. Make plans now. For a copy of the 198S Summer Session Announcement call or write: 
I 
. ComeU University Summer Session .
. Box 84, 812 Ives Hall Ithaca, New York 148S3-3901 607/2)6-4987 
r 
r 
~i~~~_<>__i__ll__t__________________
Th_u_rsd-ay-,A-p-ril-18-,1-98-5--pa-ge-7 
American morality is not based on consensus 
In the debate over abortion, a naive and dangerous philosophical idea has become fas­hionable in the past months on campus ­several pro-choice spokesmen have taken a stance which marks a radical departure from former pro-abortion arguments. Namely, the question of whether abortion is morally right or wrong, killing or not killing, now is consid-
Chris Julka 
guest column 
ered moot. Fixed moral norms, they say, do not belong in a democracy · only consensus should decide matters. Thus, because con­sensus in this country supports it, allowing nation-wide abortion is justified. 
Most who are pro-choice, however, are reluctant to carry this Machiavellian premise ­Machiavellian because it holds that the gov­ernment, in this case democracy, determines morality -to its ultimate conclusion. If con­sensus precedes morality, for instance what right does one have in demanding legislation to support the poor with federal funds when such an action would dearly violate today's comfortable status quo? 
By using consensus to justify federal sup­port of abortion in fact, one implies at the same time that slavery before the Civil War and the Jim Crow Laws before their dismem­berment were not only permissible but jus­tifiable. Moreover, any politician opposing the Spanish-American War at its inception would not be justified since consensus favored it. The fact that it was incited by inflammatory newspaper coverage of the sinking of the USS Maine, for which the Spanish may not have been responsible at all, would be irrelevant. 
When one uses Christian moral norms, of course, these claims are outrageous. If one, however, claims that democracy can survive only ifit is devoid ofany ethical prejudice, one automatically justifies the historical existence of slaves, discriminated minorities and child laborers -in addition to aborted fetuses. Why? The reason is that the overall efficiency ofthe democratic machine evidently has more im­portance than the people who get caught in its gears. 
For the most part, however, supporters of the view that consensus automatically jus­tifies abortion avoid these conclusions and portray American history as a golden, semi­utopian episode in which morality and con­sensus invariably coincided. As seen before, however, contrary to the rosy picture of democracy as some infallible machine effi­ciently saving the human race, the people riding the band-wagon were seldom the ones who stepped forward to make this country's critical decisions. 
Roosevelt's supplying ofNazi-beseiged Brit­ain, for instance, with both military arma-
Doonesbury 
ments and economic aid prior to America's entrance into World War II not only violated the United States' self-declared neutrality but also contradi~:ted a dear isolationist con­sensus within this country. Furthermore, the North proceeded with the Civil War against the South, whose member states from a strictly historic and legal perspective, pos­sessed the right to secede. It was a group of states -nations -which signed the United States Constitution to form the Union, not the Union which divided itselfinto states. 
For that matter, if one is to decide all mat­ters on a purely consensual basis, one must question the very justification for the exis­tence of this country since the agitations of a Boston intellectual elite played a greater role in the American revolution than did ~ sudden massive upheaval ofpopular opinion. 
These arguments, of course, are not so much an assault on contemporary democracy as they are on the wholly arbitrary premise that democracy and absolute values are in­compatible. Quite the opposite, the much­invoked Constitution bases itself on a number of definite moral presuppositions. "All men are created equal and are endowed with cer­tain inalienable rights," is-for example-a defi­nite stance in ethics. Although having been drummed into the American consciousness, it is nevertheless not universally accepted. One has only to look at the social iniquities ofLatin America and the caste system of India to see this. 
In addition, American democracy rests on further moral assumptions -the essential worth of the human being, his right to "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness" and the belief in the progress of humanity toward a definite historical goal stand as examples. Al­though in the United States and the Western World in general, these phrases have been repeated to the point ofbecoming platitudes, they are by no means undisputed proposi­tions. The belief that human beings possess definite, unique worth, for instance, is by no means an axiom which holds consensus in this world. 
Marxism, behavioral psychology and Darwinist-capitalism all arrive at their various conclusions by presuming physical matter to be the ultimate reality ofthe universe with the human being as essentially derivative of this matter, thus not valuable in himself. Even the acceptance of progress as something totally natural stems from the Chrisitan assumption that time is finite and has a definite end. In almost every other system of thought, time is infinite and events nothing more than parts of endlessly repeated cycles, thus leaving no room for progress as anything but an illusion. 
What does all of this have to do with the 1 Constitution in general and the abortion issue in particular? Simply that the Constitution is not a dry document from which ethical deci­sions can be inferred like mathematical theorems out ofa textbook. The Constitution 
yO(}CAN STEAL 70WCI./f, FROM 7He GOT TH£ FOOM. 7HAT5 70 IACCT 
YOU GOT THE 5CRATO{IIA£ 6lAO 
MAlo'S CAI<TWT FRONT. HELP YOUR­
5EiF 70 THE K£6, 8lJTIAJIA$VER YOU IXJ, IXJIT8/?JNG UP 7H£ /lrAA QIJAI?.­7E/?FINAL'3. 7HAT'5 AEJa1T IT.. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the Independent newpaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily rel!ect the policies of the admm1stration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a maJonty of the Editonal Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the commun1ty. and the free expressiOn of varying opimons on campus. through letters. IS tHCOuraged 
was written by a group of deistic Protestants who made use of definite moral presupposi­tions about the nature of human beings that are both Christian and by no means self­evident and uncontroversial. Democracy it­self was adopted to better put these moral premises into effect since many American colonists felt that the monarchist bureaucracies in Europe were hindering rather than advancing the goals which these premises imply, allegedly by perpetuating corruption, social elitism and intolerance. 
To do away with the premises themselves, however, is destroying democracy's only pur­pose, as democracy in this country was adopted to serve a moral conception rather than vice versa. Any government, after all, has the capacity to be immoral. What distin­guishes democracy is its ability -or so con­testedJefferson and Adams -to best enforce a distinctly Christian form of ethics. Remove this moral code and the Constitution is no longer the same document. In fact itis nothing more than a confusing and meaningless scrap ofpaper. Hence morality is antecedent rather than subordinate to consensus. The founding fathers sanctioned consensus to promote cer­tain presupposed absolute values -not as an end in itself. The people were not intended to act collectively as a Machiavellian prince against this country's minorities and un­desirables. 
Thus the abortion question should remain as it once was: Is it or is it not murder? Is it just or unjust? Is it moral or immoral? When one claims, as many are today, that these questions should not be asked and asks instead whether the government should even respect morality at all, one is not only conceding an inner suspicion that abortion may indeed be im­moral but is also attacking the very principles upon which the Constitution was founded. 
Chris julka is enrolled in the Freshman Year ofStudies at Notre Dame. 
P.O. BoxQ 
Parking garages would solve many problems 
Dear Editor: 
Last Saturday night my car was broken into. My stereo was stolen and all-important wires were cut. In an effort to get my speakers, the thieves ripped the rear dash apart. They must have pulled harder when the speakers would not come out at first because the speakergrills are bent. I think I have a good reason to be angry. In one shot, thieves caused nearly $500 in losses and damages to my car. 
I was not the only one ripped off Saturday. Five other cars were either broken into or vandalized in the D2 parking lot that night alone. There is no reason to believe that Satur­day was anythingunusual. Only a month ago, a friend's car was badly damaged when some­one threw bricks through almost all ofhis win­dows and then dented the sides of his car. I think this situation must be changed. As things· stand, student property is an easy target for thieves. Although there are probably many ways to solve the problem,let me mention the only one that I think would really work. 
I believe the University should build parking garages. Goodness knows there is enough space in the fields surrounding the campus. Parking garages have been used by many institutions, in part to solve problems like theft. The University oflowa, for instance, has minimized theft by building parking garages for students and faculty. There is al­ways a guard on hand -stationed at the en­trance/exit of the garage. There are cameras 
Garry Trudeau 


Editorial Board 
Edttor-~n Chief Managtng Editor. News Editor. . News Edttor. . Satnt Mary·s Executtve Edttor Sports Edt tor. Accent Editor Vtewpotnt Edt tor . Photography Editor Copy Chtef. 
. Sarah E. Ham11ton . Amy Stephan Keith Harrison Jr. Dan·McCullough Theresa Guanno Jeff Blumb Mary Healy Joe Murphy . . Peter C. Laches Frank Lipo 

on every stage of the garage, allowing the guard to monitor activity on every floor. 
Clearly, there are many advantages to this parking system. First, and most importantly, it would be the best security, aside from leaving one's car at home, against theft or vandalism. If six cars get broken into in one night in only one parking lot, there is a need for this benefit. In this way, Notre Dame could remove itself from being an easy target for thieves. 
Second, a parking garage would be great shelter for student and faculty cars during the winter. There would be no problems involved with snowplowing the parking lots or digging one's car out. Keeping the cars out of the cold would help them last longer too. 
Third, a centralized garage, or maybe two, on each side of the campus, would free up a great deal ofground space previously devoted to asphalt parking lots. We could rip all of those up and put in sports fields or basketball courts. These lots would no longer need to be maintained, thus the University would save more money. 
Aparking garage would also be a great help to the many visitors to the Notre Dame campus. All in all, one or more buildings would be a great investment on the part ofthis University. 
Notre Dame security is not stopping these thefts as was shown clearly in D2 last Saturday night. I do not think there is any question but that a change is needed and I think a parking garage or two would be the way to solve the problem and also benefit the entire Notre Dame community. 
joe Merchant Grace Hall 

Quote of the day 
"Communism is the corruption ofa dream ofjustice." 
-Adlai E. Stevenson 

Department Managers 
Business Manager. . . Dav1d Stephen1tch Advertising Manager Anne Culligan Controller. Bill Highducheck Systems Manager. Mark B. Johnson Productton Manager John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 
--------~ 
Accent 
What's unknown beneath the dome? 
S
et aside your lunch, put down those hooks, and prepare to test your N.D.T.Q. (Notre Dame Trivia Quotient). As a special incentive, The Observer will award a S20 prize to whoever ha<> the highest, i.e. whoever can answer the most questions (see rules below). 
Trivia, defined as unimportant, insig­nificant and trifling facts, has swept the nation, and Notre Dame is no exception. Although true Domers find little ifanything trivial about this place they love, everyone 
1. 
How much did it cost for tuition, room and board in 1844? 

2. 
What is Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh's middle name? 

3. 
Aportrait ofwhat famous explorer is on your left ao; you pass through the main door of the Administration Building? 


4. What ailment did George Gipp die of? 
5. 
How many towers like Flanner and Grace did the University initially plan to build? 

11. What game was won "for the Gipper"? 

12. 
What is the highest man-made object on the Notre Dame campus? 

13. 
What was South Bend known as prior to 1830? 


14 _ What is the name of the mosaic on the Memorial Ubrary? 
1
5. True or False: The statue of the Virgin Mary on the Dome is 19 feet tall and weighs 4400pounds 

16. 
How many cars can be parked on the campus on a football weekend? 

17. 
What wao; the overall GPA for Notre Dame students in the spring semester, 1984? 

18. 
In what year did the Fighting Irish win their first national championship in football? 

19. 
What wao; the name of the married student housing constructed where the Memorial Ubrary now stands? 

20. 
What began operation on Sept. 30, 1955? 

21. 
To the nearest I 0 percent, how much of Notre Dame's annual income is received through tuition and fees? 

22. 
Who was the starting quarterback for the Fighting Irish on the 1977 National Championship Team? 

23. 
Ifyou said, "the Papists," "the Nomads," "the Horrible Hibernians," or "the Ramblers," to whom were you referring? 


NO 
Nicholas Griffin 
should enjoy racking his or her brain for that forgotten detail, famous name, or unusual fact about the University ofNotre Dame or Saint Mary's College. Here is your chance. 
Ifyou feel inspired to learn more about your future Alma Mater, two books are invaluable, and should be considered re­quired reading: Rev. Arthur). Hope's "Notre Dame: One Hundred Years," and Thomas). Schlereth's "The University ofNotre Dame: A Portrait oflts History and Campus." Both are available at the Bookstore. 
6. 
What Notre Dame chemistry professor invented synthetic rubber? 

7. 
Who was the first U.S. President to visit Notre Dame while in office? 

8. 
How high is it to the top of the Golden Dome from ground level? 

9. 
What position did Knute Rockne play? 


I 0. In what year was the Administration Building constructed, and how long did it take to build? 
24. 
The name of the laundry is...? 

25. 
To the nearest hundred, how many people does the Stadium hold? 

26. 
Who is the current University provost? 

27. 
What is the average depth ofSt. Mary's Lake? 

28. 
What began publication on November 3,1966? 

29. 
True or False: The University has had an academic year with no Christmas holiday. 

30. 
Which is larger, St. Mary's Lake or St. Joseph's Lake? 

3
1. What is the oldest building on the University campus? 

32. 
Who was the first female professor to receive tenure? 

33. 
Who received the Patriot of the Year award from the Senior Class in 1960? 

34. 
Who is entombed in the Log Chapel? 

35. 
Approximately how many volumes are in the University Libraries? 

36. 
What was the baseball field known as before being named jake Kline Field? 

37. 
Approximately how many applications for admission does the University receive each year? 


Buildings 

38. Warner Brother's filmed what movie on campus in 1940? 
39-How many pieces are there in the Memorial Ubrary mosaic: 5,714. 23,856, or 133,490? • 
40. 
In what year did the University begin coeducation? 

41. Who is the Dean ofthe Law School? 

42. 
How many times has the Golden Dome been regilded? 


43. 
After the disastrous fire of 1879, who said "The fire was my fault._. she (Notre Dame) had to burn it to the ground to show me I dreamed too small a dream."? 

44. 
Where did Digger Phelps have his first basketball coaching job? 

45. 
What Federal Department funds the Radiation Research Lab? 

46. 
What does the acronym LOBUND stand for? 

47. 
Notre Dame had its first soccer team ir what year? 

48. 
Notre Dame, in 1873, became the first Ca.tholic university to establish a program in this field ofstudy. Name it. 


49. What is unique about Stepan Center: 
50. 
The Freshman Year ofStudies office is locate in what hall? 

51. 
How many buildings were on the NO campus in 1844? 




--~---------------------------­
Thursday, Aprill8, 1985-page 9 
What's new...and old at Saint Mary's? 
1. 
In what year was Saint Mary's founded? 

2. 
How much was board and tuition for Saint Mary's in 1866? 

3. 
Which Saint Mary's dorm is the oldest? 

4. 
1Mlat words are enlightened above the statue in Augusta Courtyard? 

5. 
What poem is raised above the floor outside Carroll Hall in Madeliva, as a tribute to Sr. Madeleva? 

6. 
Which Saint Mary's dorm is the newest? 



SMC photos by Mary Flynn 

12. 
What was the original purpose of Regina Hall? 

13. 
In what year were Saint Mary's students no longer required to wear uniforms? 

14. 
When wereSaint Mary's students first allowed to attend Notre Dame football games? 

15. 
What was the name ofthe first literary magazine published by Saint Mary's? 

16. 
What was the name ofSMC before it was officially called Saint Mary's College? 

17. 
When did the groundbreaking ceremonies take place for the new Cushwa Leighton Library? 

18. 
What was Sister Madeleva's last name? 

19. 
When was the first issue of Holy Cross Courier published? 

20. 
What was LeMans Hall named after? 


7. 
As late as the 1960s, what two require­ments were necessary before a Saint friary's student could leave for the weeken<J, other than to go home? 

8. 
Where was the sports arena (Angela) located before the New Angela was built? 

9. 
When was the first Mass said in the Church of Loretta? 

10. 
What is the name ofthe Saint Mary's yearbook? 

11. 
In what year was the Mosaic put up on the northwest wall of Moreau Hall? 


21. 
Who was the first president ofSaint Mary's? 

22. 
In what school year did Saint Mary's abolish the previous curfew rule? 

23. 
In the 1940s what was required to be worn by all Saint Mary's students that distin­guished them as "Saint Mary's girls"? 

24. 
When were Saint Mary's students allowed to try out for Notre Dame cheerlead­ing positions? 

25. 
When was the first dance for SMC and Notre Dame students held at Saint Mary's? 

26. 
What was the name ofthe Saint Mary's newspaper before The Observer? 

27. 
What was done to the Church of Loretta in 1956? 

28. 
Why was Holy Cross's study lounge named "the pebble"? 

29. 
What was the original purpose of the building that is now Haggar College Center? 


Rules  
1. Whoever submits the most cor­any day until Friday, April 26. rect answers to all questions, includ­3. No Observer employee is eligible ing those ofboth Notre Dame and Saint to win the contest. Mary's, wins the prize. In case ofa tie, 4. Solutions to the contest will bethe earliest entry submitted wins. printed on Monday, April 29 in The2. Print or type your answers on a Observer. The contest's winner will bepiece ofpaper With your name, phone announced at the same time.numlber and address. Submit your entry to the office manager at The Good luck, and above all, enjoy! Observer between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Remember, it's only trivia!  

Sports Briefs 
The ND Women's Track Club is looking for 
volunteers to help at its home meet on Saturday. Anyone who is 
interested should call Susan at 283-4286 or Anne at 283-2646.-The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will play host 
to the Irish Invitational Tournament on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 
4:30 p.m. on the Stepan fields. -The Observer 
AnTostal mud volleyball schedules are posted outside the student government offices on the second floor of LaFortune. Games will continue Saturday and Sunday. For more in­formation, call janet at 277-3967 or Matt at 283-2465.-The Observer 
Thursday, April18, 1985-page 10 

"Personal Favorites" 

1) Who was the last American League MVP to be a switch hitter? 
2) Who endedjim Lonborg's quest for a no-hitter in the 1967 World Series? 
3) Who was on third base when Bobby Thomson hit his pennant­clinching home run in 1951? 
4) Who was the winning pitcher in the first World Series game ever? 
5) What company gave Ty Cobb a major portion of stock in the company in return for his endorsement of its product? 
by K.C. Culum 
Answers will appear in tomorrow's paper 
Thanks to you ... it works ... for 
ALL 
OF US 
Unltadwau
• 

The Obserr•er Notre.-Dame olfke. lol"att·d on lht· third floor of l.aforlunt· Student Center. al"et·prs classified adn·nising from <J a.m. until -1 p m.. ;\1onda\ through Friday. The Ohserr•er Saini Mary's offin·. lol"att·d on !h.: third floor of Haggar Colkgc.-Centc.-r. an·epts dassifit·ds from 12:50 p m until -~ p m. ~ton· day though Friday Deadline for nt·xr-da\ da"ifit·ds is .i p.m. All dassifit·ds must lw prepaid. eilht·r in pc.-rson or hy mail. ( :hargl" is Ill LTnls per fivc.-t'harac
Classifieds 
lers r da\'. 
NOTICES 
TYPING CAU CHRIS 234-811117 
WORDPROCESSING-2n-41045. 
TYPING 277·8534 after 5:30 
WOld Processing and Typ1ng Ret~umes. Leners, Papers. Documents Call 234· 2380 
PRO. TYPE Over 14 yrs. expenence typing student papers, resumes, and dis­sertations 277-5833. 
One U.S. dollar wiH teed two Eth1op1ans a day. 
YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE! 
Anand the ND/SMC Chanty Ball 
Saturday, Apnl20 
9 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
Stepan Center 
T1ct<ets on sale in dOlma and at La 
Fortune recOld stOle. S6 Single, $10 
couple All welcome 
TYPING· CALL ANDREA-283-3880 
Serenity at your fingertips!! N-Alcholica Anonymous meeting,Fndaya at 7p.m.,3d tl.lnt~rmary. Am. 316 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
COUEGIATE TYPING, MY HOME. 2n­3085 
START YOUR CAREER NOW Earn money and work on Fortune 500 Companies' marketing programs on campus. Part-t1me (flexible) hours each week. We give references. Cell 1-800­243-6679. 
Be Sman!! Sell your texts and paperbacks IOl $$ befOle the ruahll M-F .BIT 12-4 pm. We alao carry a wide anortment ot Cliff and Monarch Notea. P andOlas Booka.937 So.Bend Ava.,t bloc!< frOln Corby's. 

CONGRATULATIONS! OUR SIN­CEREST CONGRATULATIONS GO TO JIM ADRIAN ON HIS BEING ELECTED CHAIRMAN OF THE NOTRE DAME COLLEGE OF REPUBLICANS NOTRE DAME REPUBLICANS 
Hey TruthiHker Why haven't you called ma yelllll!l I'm otiM waiting... Your ATHI!IST, VEGETARIAN, PHYSICAL, FEMALE L011a, MOl& 
LOST/FOUND I 

LOST.ONE.PA'iii OF ITALIAN LEATHER 
GLOVES, BROWN SIZE 9. REWARD. 
DUE TO MY SPASTIC NATURE I HAVE MANAGED TO LOSE MY WINTER VEST IT IS BLUE WITH FLANNEL LINER AND COflDUROY COLLAR. IT ALSO HAS A GROUND ZERO BUTTON ATTACHED AND EVEN THOUGH GROUND ZERO NO LONGER EXISTS I STIU WOULD LIKE ITS RETURN DUE TO RELIGIOUS OBLIGATIONS. PLEASE RESPOND, THERE IS A Rf,.WARD IN THE FORM OF S&H GREEN STAMPS. CALL DAN AT 272­
5416. 
FOUND: BLACK GLACIER SUN­GLASSES IN ROOM 113 NSH AFTER DR. HAMBURG'S RUSSIAN HISTOflY CLASS ON WED. APRIL 3. CALL JIM AT 21522 Ofl STOP BY 336 HOWARD HALL. 
FouNo:·c-OfiAl·A'No.aCilo·c:CiLCiReii 
BRACELET IN 3N HOWARD. CALL JIM AT 2522. 
LOST: General Blo text was removed frOln the tar right aide of main cerrela on the 10th 1toor ol the Hbrary Wed. 81/ening. The return ot lhio book il extremely lmpOl­tanl ul have a teat next week! Call3815 ASAP If found! 
LOST: WEST'S BUSINEBS LAW BOOK SECOND EDITION AT LUNCH 4/11 AT SOUTH DINING HALL FROM ON TOP OF THE CIGARETTE MACHINE. TO THE "SCUMBAG" WHO "BORROWED" MY BOOK, PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE SPOT WHERE YOU "SWINDLED" IT. IF YOU, THE LOSER, HAS ANY CLASS, YOU WILL RETURN IT. MY IS ON THE INSIDE OF THE BOOK IF YOU, THE LOW UFE CAN READ. I HAVE A TEST ON THE 4/18. 
FOUND:crosa pen with ins1gma in Lafortune linle theater 4/12 call 239­5713 
LOST AT BEAUX-ARTS FRIDAY NIGHT -one set ot keys, Grace Hall key-nng ·one set ol keys, black leather key-nng -one red plastic necklace ~one green comb all can be claimed at architecture office 
LOST; To whoever acadently tool< my jean jacket with the Springsteen pin on it from South Dining Hall on Sunday , I'd ap­pr8Ciate II you re turn il to 308 Lyons. No questions aaked. Thanks. 
Lost navy blue pull-over windbreaker made by Jos.Bank.Losl on Saturday at the tennis courts.II found pleaae call Joe at3498. 
FOUND : Grey Samsonite suitcase found in N.Y.C on Belt Parkway dunng Easter Break. Suitcase contains clothing with "N.D. Baseball" on it. For mOle INFO call Lost and Found at 239-5036. 
LOST:A pa1r of brown-framed prescrip· tion glasses(not in case). Lost 4/12. It found pleaae call Ellie-1258. 
Found; One pair of ltakan brown leather gloves. To claim call239-5162 
Lost: Blue jean jacket at a off-campus party on 3/29. Please call Jean at 284­5024. 
LOST: ... about 4 months ago. 1 pair of glasaes with brown rim In a gray case. It found pleaae call 2700. 
To whoever took my St. Augustine clasa ring,! know what you look like and ao does Security. I adv1se you to return II soon. and avoid any serious trouble. Alii want is my ring bact<, and I'll IOlget the whole thing and 10 will Security. You know where you look it from ao you know where to return It I hope your friend in Fiaher reads this ao that he can tell you, and eave you lrom prosecution. 
FOUND: One women's high school clasa ring with initials MCH inside. Found in McCandless Hall SMC. Call Julie 284­5418. 
FOR RENT 

NEED AN APARTMENT Summer Townhouse available lor rent! Call 2275 fOl infOlmation. 
2 bedroom apanment IOl summer rent.. close tocampua(t/4 mile) call2n-1256 
Two room efficiency, private entrance. utilities paid 288-0955. 
i.vA.twi:e.Foii.N'iixr'sc'Hw.vEA'ii 
FIVE BEDROOM HOUSE COM­PLETELY FURNISHED. WASHER AND DRYER AND GARAGE. CALL 234·9364. 
RESPONSIBLE PERSON NEEDED TO SUBLET ONE BEDROOM APARTMENT AT CASTLE POINT, FUUY FUR­NISHED. JUNE TO AUGUST. I PAY FOR PART OF THE RENT. CALL 239 7699 (OFFICE) OR 2n 0960 (HOME) 
Apartment in Chicago apace available May 30-Sept.30 IOl lemale. Share with two 64 NO grada. Nice sate neighbor· hood. Call Celia 312-4 77-9592 after 1 Opm Ol Marl claire 284-5484. 
NEED TO RENT A HOUSE THIS SUM­MER? STUDENTS SHOULDN'T HAVE IT THIS GOOD. LARGE, 3 BDRM, 5 MIN FROM CAMPUS. NICEST IN TOWN. 2n-6844. 

APARTMENT IN CHICAGO.FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED. BIG 2 BEDROOM APARTMENT WITH BAY WINDOW. LEASED-MAY UNTIL END OF DECEMBER. LINCOLN PARK. NO NEIGHBORHOOD. 4 BLOCKS FROM THE L. RENT AND UTIL 237.50/MONTH. FOR MORE INFO CALL LONNI 2731. 
WANTED 
f NEED GRAD. TIXI Please call Use at 3544. 
Hey I'm I.U. Bound Unfortunately I haven't any wheels. Anyone heading tor !he Llnle 500 next weekend? I will share the usual. Call Teresa SMC 5067. 
Female Roommate n-ed atartlng May 1. CaaUe Pol nt Apia. call 2n-t382 avenlnga. 
HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX, TO· GETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296: KEEP TRYING!! 
SALES ENGINEER, Utility and Industrial Boilers, Fluid Bed Boilers. Co-generation Systems. Waste Incineration, Pulverizers and Stokers--Riley Stoker Corp., call 312-692-5050 
need ride Ol ridern to IU blmn this wknd call Bill2153 
NEED RIDERS TO MIAMI OF OH/OXFORD 4/19-4/21 CALL: STEVE 1844 
Ride Ol Riders Needed to Indianapolis 4/26 Call3880 
ROOMATES/ROOM WANTED: For the 85-86 school year. Prelerably law school students. Call Jim at 283-1157. 
FOR SALE 
Be smart' Sell your class books befOle the rush. Mon.-Fri between 12 and 4. Save$ on paperbact<s. Fri: 3-6; 50/ off used: 20/ of! new. PANDORA'S BOOKS. 937 So Bend Ave. 233-2342 
6 UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE, NO­MEMORIAL AREA, EXCELLENT CON­DITION 233-Q728 232-4528 
USED STEREO 35 watts per channel amp, tuner, turntable, cabinet, 2 speakers, good sys­tem for next year's quad. Call Sl811a at 2534. 
Attention: Faculty,Grad-students & Un­dergraduates HouH fOl sale 1 mile away trOln campus, totally remodeled A graat tax deduction fOl you Ol the parents. Terms land contract or conventional. Call 287-4107 IOlappt. 
FOO SALE component stAreo system call Brian 3186 
82 Honda Civic. Air, Cass Stereo, Great MPG. 2n-5725 
TICKETS 
HEY SENIORS! NEED GRADUATION DESPARATELY!!!!! WILL PAY HUGE BUCKS!! PLEASE CALL MARIA !SEAN· 
4304. 

NEED 3 GRAD TIX WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! CALL SCOTT 4113 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS (31 REALLY BADLY --PLEASE HELP. CAU MEL AT 283-3718. WILL EVEN PAY YOU FOR THEM II 
NEED 4 GRADUATION TIX. CALL KEVIN AT 287-8262 BUT ONLY AFTER CALLING MEL FIRST!! 
NEED 2 GRAD TIX -Please call Mike at 2263anytlme 
GRADUATION TIX NEEDED Need three tix for large lamily Call Brian at 1079 aher 10:30 pm. 
HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX, TO. GETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP TRYING!! 
The BOSS needs graduation tickets. Will pay top dollar. Please call21131 
HELP!! DESPERATELY NEED GRAD TIX (LOTS)-PLEASE CALL JULIE ]4354 
GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED! Five of them. fOl real money. Call 288-0330. Please. 
Deaperately n-Tommy Shaw tick­eta. Will pay good price. Call Greg at 4010. 
!NEED 3 GRADUATION TICKETS call CHAPIN at 1589 Ol2793 anytime. 
HELP!! I NEED 1 GRAD TICKET--WILL PAY$$$!! CALL SUE 3843 PLEASE!! 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER • LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Moonchildren MOONCHILDREN MOONCHILDREN 
MOONCHILDREN Joe McGrath Doug Regan Robin McHugh Mark McG011ern Andy Bartow Colleen Coner Fred Nelson Sheila McDaniel Bill Casey Dean Christy John Trusela Kevin Sandberg David Paul Tom Dunn Ray Wise MOONCHILDREN See them at Washington Hall 8 p.m. TONIGHT! 
HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THE YELLOW SUB 272-4453 MO.TH 8·11 pm FA-SA 8pm-1am 
CHUCK FREEBY IS A GOD! CHUCK FREEBY IS A GOD! HAPPY BIRTHDAY, GOD! THE DYNASTY CLUB LOVES YOU!! 
.................................................................. 
OFF-CAMPUS IS SPONSORING A BLOCK PARTY!! SAT., 4/20 3pm-? EVERYONE WELCOME. QUESTIONS? CALL RACE 272-0734 
AIRBAND reg1s1ration in AN TOSYAL office (2nd floor LaFortune) through Friday 
ATTENTION SPRING BREAKERS Bus A, the PARTY promised has arrived! Saturday, April 20 at around 4pm at 733 St. Louis Street. Bus b may have had it first, but A will have the best. Call AJ at 232·5645/f you have questions. 
RUDEFEST '85 The Off·Campua Council, in collaboration with The Audas proudly preHnt a get­together to be remembered. On Saturday, April 20, at St. Louis Street, the festivities will begin at around 4pm. Music and food willalao be present. Remember, that's the 20th. 
'YOCIUS is Atrocious. 

F811er Symptom 1: a burning desire to travel to England. 
Muy Buenos Tardes Clase Where are my students? 
FURRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRKINS 
ONLY ONE MORE MONTH 
How would you like to throw something at Student Body President Bill Healy???????????? Well, he is ready and willing to answer all questions and comments thrown at himllllllll 9 pm Thursday, TODAY!!, Apri118 in Lafortune Linle Theater. 
Do you have a passionate hate Ol distrust for your student government? Would you like some answers from your elected offi­cials? How would you like to voice your opinion and make a difference? 9pm Thursday, Today!!, April 18 Lafortune Unle Theater Student Body President Bill Healy will be there lo respond to all of your concerns!!!!! (This is only an exhibition, PLEASE-no wagering!! 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS Every­one•agolng to UNCLE'S IRISH PUB on Thura. Nile. located 4609 Grape Rd. oouth of Unlv Park Mall75cant relrMh­menta. 10 O'CLOCK. 
HAPPY HOUR,Friday's BIT 3-6pm.AII used paperbacks 50/ off ,all new books 20/ off. Become intoxicated w/knowledge beiOle the State makes this illegal' Pan­doras Books,937 So.Bend Ave.233· 2342. 
GREAT JOB 
BOOKSTORE 
SCOREKEEPERS 
Keep up the good work. 
The Commissioners 
HELPII NEED DR 2 TIX, TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 12711 DR 1288; KEEP TRYING!! 
TiXIOl 

Trip to White Sox-YankM'a pme April 26 will be on sale IOl $15 (includes bus, beverages and ticket) Sunday 1-6pm In LaFortune and LeManslobby and Mon­day lrOln 6-8pm in LeMans lobby. 
SponsOled by SMC SeniOl Class 
Anentton Senlora Pre-Antostal Bash is coming, watch this space IOl details to come. 
Bact< by popular demand! JIM TAilOR CORE COURSE Player of the week JaneP.-ry 
Jim ... Now that you're 18 you are no longer sluggish • I owe you at least that. Have a great Birthday and good luck next year. L011e, The Social Bunertly 
Lavena Willis-The Engineering Goddetl8 otPE! 
One pair ol loolball turlahOH -nted I need a date!!! Call Woody at 4273 
FOl Sale: Two Tommy Shaw Tic-. front row. Only $75 IOl pair. Call Sham at 6969 
ad PLEASE SMILE Father-he tried. Kept trying. Knew that he Had to tail. He still tried. The men of the Church and Mar· nage Cannot produce Anything On their own. They can only Be Ready To add lheir two cents worth. 
KEN KESEY AND THE MERRY PRANKSTERS invite all to anend THE ELECTRIC KOOL-AID ACID TEST at Stepan 1 on Sat, 5:30 
Happy 21st Birthday CHRIS BON­COSKY! Have a great time at Linla 500 (be good) and !ell me everything when you come back. Your Mom (K.T.) 
It you were not a! Bndget's Tuesday night to see ROSEMARY HATTRUP in rare IOlm on her 21st birthday, it's not too late to WISh a happy one! SMC 5155 
The anractlona are ao tame In P.W. compared to Tampa. Some mora akllled lrlabee In the guH, glrla? Thun­derloot, at 1Ma1 try to hang on to the rope. Nachoa with curlan, how domeatlc. We have nav.-aeen two more vlcloua aplllathan the one at the pizza din-and the one on the dance floor. Continued later . 
Have you Herd the news? The ZOO is lull and the am mala are get· t1ng reslless. Quick, give them a KISS, get them a DATE, teed them HOT PEPPERS. Ollet them have RECESS. AN TOSTAL '85! 
PARTY PARTY PARTY 
Oft-Campus Community presents: 
RudaFH1'85 St. LoUis Street Saturday, April20 3p.m.·? A SOCIAL ALTERNATIVE FOR YOU 
60a PARTY ... 801 PARTY ... 
60aPARTY 
April1910pm-1:30 
Regina Basement 
$20 tor Beet costume'!! 
$1 admiss1on 

CHUCK. JOYCELYN, MIKE. JANE, TOM, AND DIXIE·· I enjoyed hav1ng you all here for Easter! Someone stole one of the chocolate bunies. but Fred (the Flame) got his egg. Everything else is super as usual. (Now doesn't this just beat the heck out of a postcard? By the way, those postcards are invalid-stamp pnces you know). See you In 24 deya!!! L011e and kisses and tons ol good WIShes-your fa­vorite cemetery worker. PS-Hey Dad. where is it Illegal for the portrait ot a living person to appear in the United States? 
Whatacheerleader with cheese Congrats Bill Cushwa Love, S.P. Roomies Go Negative 
NOW THAT YOU HAVE YOUR INVITA· TIONS: C 0 M E A NIGHT OF DANCING. GOSSIP, AND ECSTACY 11:00 PM ­
2:00 AMy CHATAUQUA BAUROOM FRIDAY, APRIL 19 ADMISSION SUB­JECT TO DOOR SELECTION y!F YOU HAVE AN INVITE: THE PARTY STARTS TWO HOURS EARLIER 
O.K. SO THAT WAS l!BERACE ON 
S.N.L. IT WAS CONFIRMED IN YES· TERDAY'S OBSERVER. I CAN'T PAY THE BET BUT HOW ABOUT DINNER? (TO REPLY, TRY 3617,1T WORKS) 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY, CAROLINE ZERNII! 
LOVE YOUR FOUR GREAT ROOMIES! 
WANTED: One SMC Chick who can SIIW, clean. bake, and make . CALL Steve J. at 264 7 
same as last time u r sayin that im lull of romantic notions about harlequin n011el babe i know what you want but u keep sayin i am sarlous and didnl beti811e me when i said the opposite ... called me a liar and then even worse I enjoyed our ar· 
rangemenl, really-would'v been baner it there waa alinle respect it only you'd look a linle deeper u'd find I would never have COlne back If you wanted different than I I have grown up you wont 81/en try to lind oul if only youd call and prom1se reapect, that's all I'll come round and visit if u r nicer. love Always 
60a PARTY ... 80e PARTY ... 
60aPARTY Aprii1910pm-1:30 Regina Basement $20.00 lor Beet costume'!! S1.00admission 

The Observer Thursday, April18, 1985-page 11 
Championship up for grabs in women's tourney 
By MICHAEL FLANNERY side of U.S. 31. However, as the Sports Writer "other" Bookstore field thinned out, the women returned home and will 
The women's Bookstore basket­play the remaining games at .:.l1e ball tournament reached the second Stepan courts. round of play yesterday afternoon One variation in the women's after a week of first round games. rules should be noted. Captains have The second round will continue the option of playing to either 15 or 
through next Tuesday as the field is 21 points, presumably to allow a slowly whittled down to the "sweet blatantly inferior team to bow out sixteen." with some dignity. Several teams 
When the first game began last chose to play to 1 5 in the first round. Thursday, 64 teams were in the hunt With a long way to go, it appears for the championship. It was imme­that eight or nine teams have a 
diately apparent, however, that legitimate shot at winning the title. 
some teams had substantially more Talent has been evenly-distributed, firepower than others. In fact, some for the most part. There were few teams didn't even bother to put up a surprises in the first round. fight. Seven first round games were Nucleus Breakers, led by Mary decided by forfeit. Beth Schueth, had the toughest go of 
About halfofthe first round games any of the favorites. Schueth had 13 were played at the Angela Athletic points as the Breakers slipped by Facility on St. Mary's campus due to Seventh Heaven Less 2, 21-16. Less 2 the glut of men's games on the other was stocked with members of PE's 
I,Ht)e c.~· prepares you for the real world. 

WHERE TO MEET MEN. 
Well, once you get out of college, you're ~rob­ably going to look for The Guy. Well, there slots of guys in bars. But why would you want a man who hangs around in bars? You could also try personal ads. But come on, you wouldn't answer one, so why would you expect him to? Another place to meet men is in a supermarket. But what if he's buying those extra lamb chops for his wife? I mean, lots of guys don't wear wedding rings. Well, maybe you'll meet him where you work. But, didn't last month's Cosmo say never to get involved with someone you work with? Then again, maybe a friend will introduce you to some­one. But if he's so great, how come your friend didn't want him for herself? Maybe she's secretly seeing him. What kind of a friend is that? And who wants a two-timing guy? 
Who knows, maybe you'll meet someone when you pick up your 2 for 1 pizza. Let's face it, any guy smart enough to use these coupons must have something on the ball. 
Ponagt Liquor 
Sun-Thurs
~
SMC 
~ 

< llam -llpm
•

unu 
( AE~1'R"S 
cr. 
!

PIZZA 
~ 
0 

~ Fri-Sat
+-----_,~A~··~·'~'--+Z 
llam -lam

Corner of Elwood and Portage (4 minutes from Campus) 
From your local Utde Caesar's manager -Jay Free1 
233-3200 Give us a try-You won't regret it! 
Co 1984 Little Caesar Entl!!'pl'l.ses. Inc. 


.VALUABUPIIIA!I 
Buy any size original round pizza at regular price, get identical pizza I 
FREE with this coupon at participating Little Caesars. Carry-out I 
only. One coupon per customer. 
Expires: 
1·I 

lrf)~~-~1 ~-------------------------· 
SUMMERSTORAGESPACE 
(5 m10 spaces avaUable) 
816 East McKinley Mishawaka Securitv Patrol Checks 


6502 Grape Road (219) 277-2400 
-----------------------~---­
I 

SAVE ON CONTACT LENSES!
I I $49 SPHIERICAL $9 9 SPHERICAL
I DAILY WEAR EXTENDED WEAR 
I SOFT LENSES SOFT LENSES I OOer includes triBtl wearing plan. Examination &care kit not included. I Offer good on initial pair only w/Vjllage Optical prescription.
I Expires 5/11 V11lage Optical 
.------------------~-------­
1 25% off 
all sunglasses 
-Bausch & Lomb -Ray Ban -Logo Paris, etc. 

Expires 5/11 
SAVE ~ON EYEGLASSES 
20% 1st complete pair of prescription eyeglasses 
off 
drilled the lone shot for Have No Pride, etc. 
Foul Trouble hacked their way to a 1 5-12 victory over Larks. Carrie Bates almost single-handedly won the game with 12 points. Janeen Olds scored the other three points. 
We Shave Points But Not for Drugs absolutely destroyed Jam On It!, 21-0. Julie Pietras scored seven points to lead We Shave... As ex­pected, no one scored forJam OnIt! 
Two other teams, The Violent Femmes and Does on Their Own should also challenge for the title. Mary Borkowsld and Laura Gleason lead these two squads, respectively. 
interhall basketball champions, in­cluding Susie Fessler, Susan Hayes, Colleen Donnelly, and Leslie Hein­neman. Donnelly led her team with seven points. 
Going All the Way won its first game over Massive Attitude Prob­lem by a score of 21-10. Kathy Im­monen led the Way with ten points. Laura Dougherty tossed in four points to help the cause. Going All the Way also has the Schwebel twins, Julie and Theresa, reportedly the best set of twins since the Van Arsdales. 
Going All the Way will have to heat Five Women Who Want to Go All the Way (and Play B-Ball, Too). Five Women... advanced to the second round by beatingTheJoyless Wonders 21-7. Janice Monagle and Ann Curoe led Five Women... with six points apiece. 
RTHBKA bombed The Bombing Starts in Five Minutes, 21-5. Dava Newman led RTHBKA with six buckets. Lisa Ehrhart and Ann Wil­lard split ten points for the winners. 
Have No Pride, Suffer No Embar­rassment couldn't stomach the onslaught from The D.U.I.'s and col­lapsed, 21-1. Ruth Ann Kaiser and Christina Weinmann led the D.U.I.'s with seven apiece. Coleen Nolan 

of-20. 
Paddle Goes to Russia went to Stepan 8 yesterday at 6: 1 5 and came away with a 21-18 victory over Hoop Da Doop. Two John Mooneys teamed up for the Rusldes, one hit­ting 8-of-1 7 and the othergoing 7 -of­
19. Greg Abowd hit 7-of-16 for the, losers. 
Phi Runna Gunna was able to run enough to overcome an army yester­day on Stepan 2 at 5:30. Mas· ciopinto's Irish Army, that is. Commander-in-Chief Jeff Mas­ciopinto hit only two of his eight shots as his army was defeated, 21· 
17. Mark Palasld and Kelly Brothers died valiantly in the battle, hitting 6­of-14 and 6-of-15, respectively. 
In a preview of next week's Blue­Gold football game, Mr. Coffee and the Non Dairy Creamers broke through the defense of Defense Plus Two to win, 21-13, on Stepan 2 at 
6:15. Football receivers Tony Eason ( 6-of-12) and MiltJackson ( 5-of-14) of the Creamers took apart three members of the defensive backfield, Mike Larldn ( 5-of-17), Mike Haywood ( 2-of-16) and Pat Ballage (0-of-12). 
The governor of Idaho would have been proud yesterday to see Spudz Zaremba and the Couch Potatoes take the sheer energy out of Five Guys That Wear Panty Hose on Their Heads, 21-12, on Bookstore 10 at 5:30. Dave Smith got the Mr. Potato Head Award for tlle second consecutive game, hitting 8-of-22 to lead his team. Teammate Karl Turro added 7-of-25, while Kurt Petersen led the footwear fettishists with 5-of­13. 
Four Dingleberries Looldng for a Good Opening and a Kresgie had better luck finl:ling an opening on Lyons 11 at 6: 15 than the doctors on Lyons 12 at 5:30. The Dingleberies toasted After Birth on Rye, 21-8, as each player on the team scored at least three times. John Madden led the way with 5-of-9 and Doug Pratt followed suit with 5-of-12. 
We Needed Five Uollars to Play but Couldn't Get It From Bernard Goetz could have used some assis­tance from the subway vigilante yes­terday on Bookstore 9 at 5:30. Two Dillon Sweetwater Dudes and Three Tools From Alumni overcame the traditional dorm rivalry and We Needed... , 21-5. Mike Grace paced the united dorms with 11-of-18 shooting, whileJim Vizzini was high· scorer for the impoverished losers with 4-of-8. 
When Feeney's Weenies scored 

first in their contest on Stepan 1 at 
6: 1 5 with Revenge ofthe Fun Bunch, exhuberant fans showered the court with hot dogs, but the Weenies did not have much fun. It was the Fun Bunch, out to revenge its semifinal loss in last year's tournament, that ·rolled to a 21-4 victory. The Bunch's balanced offense hit 21 of its 30 shots, led by Steve Treacy's 6-of-7 and Matt Dingens' 5-of-6. Don Feeney got the Oscar Meyer Award for Leadership, pacing his team on 0-of-7 shooting. 
Kelly's Uncles cried "uncle" loudly as they fell victim to the big­gest blowout of the day on Stepan 3 at 6:15. Gumby Bloody Gumby rolled to the 21-2 victory without shedding any red stuff, as the Uncles shot 2-of-25. 
Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 16 
The Pedophilic Day Care Center 
overcame Stork and the Four Eggs, 
22-20, at 6:15 on Lyons 12. Dan 
Duffy's 9-of-17 and Jeff Waters' 9-of­
22 paced the foot-loving babysitters, 
while the eggs scrambled to keep 
up, led by Mike Sperry's 12-of-24. 
A Gynecologist, a Proctologist 
and Three Other Guys Looldng for a 
Good Opening couldn't find one on 
Lyons 12 at 5:30. Four People and a 
Short Fat Guy t?ok the game, 21-19, with Steve Skolozynsld hitting 7-of­16, Jeff Niekelsld getting 5-of-9 and John Richard going 5-of-1 1. "Doctor" Yogi Spence led all scorers with 8-of-24. 
The Ozone Rangers should have 
kept their feet on the asphalt of 
Lyons 11 yesterday at 4:00. If they 
had, perhaps they would not have 
lost, 21-19, to a team billing itself as 
Maladroits. Kevin McCarthy kept 
the Rangers flying high with 11-of­
21 shooting, but he didn't get 
enough help from his teammates to 
pull off the victory. Tom Geyer led 
the uncoordinated winners with 6­

The Observer Thursday, April 18, 1985 -page 12 

Men's volleyball team rallies to take MIVA title 
The men's volleyball team captured first place in the 
last spot is determined by a tournament that is held before Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Association champion­each match. The four women who compete for that spot
Tom

ship tournament last Saturday at the University of Mic· are sophomores Trave Collins and Jackie Schwartz, Chris higan. Notre Dame posted a 12·3 record for the day, DiDonato, a Saint Mary's freshman, and Tamara Sewell, a
Yoon
winning its last eight in a row. Ed Apt, middle hitter, and graduate student. Geoff Westrich, setter, were selected to the All· "Mary Huffman, a Saint Mary's freshman, is our number­
Club Corner
Conference team, and Westrich gained tourney MVP one golfer and turns in consistent scores in the high 70's and low 80's," says lloyd. "Since she has been playing golf
honors. "I was very surprised to be named tournament MVP," the longest, she is able to assist the other golfers on the rally by a score of 15-13. By winning.the third game by a
said Westrich. "Usually the hitter get all the glory and the technical aspects of the game. Lori and myself are sop­scrore of 1 5·6, the Irish forced a one-game tiebreaker that homores and we turn in solid scores in the mid to high 80's.
setter only gets recoginized when he messes up. All ofour hitters played well and there were many fine players at the would determe the champion. And then there's our president, Jane Boland, a junior. She 
In that game Notre Dame took an early lead of 4-0 but sets up our practice schedule and tries to expand our
tournament, so I didn't think I would be in the running for the award. The award means a lot to me because I was were tied at eight. Mike O'Grady then crushed two spikes season with outer opponents. She also is trying to get our over NIU and the Irish took a commanding 13·81ead. Then club varsity status so we can get more members.
selected by the coaches and I have never won anything like at 13·1 0, Andy Reardon hit a blistering shot down the line
this before. But I feel that without all of my teammates's and the Irish were one point away from the win. Ed Abt 
help, I would have never been able to win the award." "A way we hope to get more women involved in our then clinched the championship with a service ace. club is by hosting a ladies' tournament next fall so we can Notre Dame's first match of the double-elimination "After a somewhat frustrating season, it was gratifying to look at new golfers. And the tournament will allow the wo­
tournament was against Bowling Green. The Irish won a see the team pull together and play the best volleyball they men to meet new golfers." 
tough opening game, 15·3, and then went on to win the ever had," said Apt. "Winning the club division is a step­Next weekend, the team will travel to Columbia, Mo., to match, I 5·8. Next the Irish met the number-one seed Nor­ping stone for us towards our goal of achieving varsity compete against Stevens College. And any lady golfers thern Illinois, who knocked Notre Dame into the loser's status. This weekend we are competing in a tournament would like to know more about the club, they are invited 
bracket by scores of 17-15 and 15-12. After an easy match which sends a team to the NCAA final four. Winning a to go out to the Burke Memorial golf course on Tuesday, over Ohio Wesleyan, the stage was set for a rematch with Wednesday, Friday, or Sunday, and talk to the players.
match this weekend would be an extra bonus on an already Bowling Green. Notre Dame's "cardiac kid~" lost the successful season." opener, I 5-13, and Bowling Green was looking to send the ROWING CLUB: The Notre Dame Rowing Club won the
WOMEN'S GOLF: With the weather getting warmer and Irish home early as it took a lead of 13-6 in the second Notre Dame Invitational Regatta lao;t weekend beating
the grass turning greener, the Notre Dame women's golf game. The Irish, however, started to click. With good pass­such schools as Michigan State, Michigan, Indiana, Ohio
team has started practicing.for its spring season. After re­
ing and power-hitting from Glenn and Mark Trautmann, State, Northwestern, University of Chicago, and Lincoln
turning from Houston; wh~re it practiced during springNotre Dame rallied to win, 16-14. The Irish then won the Park. lbe men's varsity light and heavy teams each took
break, the team begin the year with only eight golfers. 
third game of the match by the score of 1 7-1 5. first place and the Men's light four had the best time ofthe
"Since we are a relatively young club, it has been difficult 
day with a 4:24. Bill Milon and John Marciniak stroked the
getting recognized on this campus," says Angie lloyd, club 
Notre Dame then met Michigan for the finals of the vice president. "Hopefully through this article, we can get novice boat to first place. loser's bracket. The Irish, still hot after their match with more women on the team. And, I want to stress that w~'re BowlingGreen, defeated Michigan in straight games, 1 5-1 l not looking for just par shooters." In the women's division, captained by Patty Bergin, the 
Irish took first in the novice and light four, and second in
and 15-11. Notre Dame was intent on ending a five-year jinx of The women's team competes mostly at away tourna­the varsity light eight. finishing second, and in the championship match against ments and goes up against such teams as Purdue, Southern "This regatta was helpful in preparation for the Midwest Northern Illinois, the Irish came out pouding. Illinois, Ferris State, and Stevens College. But, it does host Sprints in Madison in two weeks," comments Paul Sher­With Apt and Trautman running the middle well, and the Notre Dame Ladies' Labor Day GolfTournament every man. This weekend the rowing club travels to West Virgina
with some solid blocking, the Irish proved to be too much year. for Northern Illinois, as they won the first game by a con­
At the tournaments, five women compete against in the and one of the rowers, Cory Timpson, has this to say: "We vincing score of 15-2. In the second game, Notre Dame match. The four most consistent ladies for the Irish are should do very well this weekend because we are rowing a jumped out to a !0-4 lead and held off a Northern Illinois lloyd, Mary Huffman, Laura Gleao;on, andJane Bq~nd. The lot better as a team." 
Belles' track team takes 1st in two events 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 

Sports Writer 
"lbe Saint Mary's track team played host to Anderson and Goshen Colleges yesterday at a meet held at Clay High School in South Bend. 
Sophomore Trish McPartlin and freshman Cathy Kennedy each earned a first place award for the Belles. McPartlin received a first in the high jump, and Kennedy finished first in the I 500-meter race. 
McPartlin received second place 
in both the long jump and the triple 
jump, as well. 

In the javelin, sophomore Megan McMonigle captured second place, and senior Diane Hartwig took fourth place. 
McMonigle came in third place in the 200-meter race, and she finished in fourth place in the I00-meter race. 
The 400-meter relay team, con­sisting of Kennedy, McMonigle, sophomore Cris Cox, and freshman Jill Simonic, finished in second place. 
Senior Diane Hartwig captured second place in the shotput and took third place in the discus. junior Barb Blanchette came in fourth place in the shotput. 
In the 5000-meter race, sop­homores Mary Ann Vantassell and Mariclaire Driscoll finished in third and fourth places, respectively. 
Sophomore Diane Cancro took fourth place in both the 800-and 3000-meter races. Mary O'Conner, a freshman, placed fourth in the 400­meter race. 
The Belles will travel to North Manchester, Ind., Saturday to com­pete in the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics ( NAIA) District 21 Tournament at Manchester College. The meet is scheduled to begin at 9:30a.m. 
Applications for 
3 Credits in 2 Weeks 
Student Government Redbud Summer Workshops 1985 
ASSISTANT TREASURER 
May 20th-June 1st 
available in Treasurer's Office 
Choose from: Drawing, Biology, 
2nd floor LaFortune 
Ceramics, Printmaking & Photography Must presently be a 
Sophomore Accounting Major 
Sponsored by the St. Mary's. Art Department 
If you have any questions call 
For further information contact: 
Eric at 239-7417
Moreau Gallery, 284-4655 
Applications due Mqnday, April 22,4:00 PM 
We're #I in Making Student Loans 
Get cash to cover college expenses without the worry or the hassle. 
Visit our main office downtown, or call our student loan experts at 237-5410, today. 
Because We Make Them Simple. 

S'l!JOSEPH BANK 
MEMBER FDIC 


The Observer Thursday, April18, 1985-page 13 

MID -EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
FOODS.

• Vel/etarian & Meat Di•he• SHAWERMA-MUGEDERA-BABA GHENOUJ HOMMUS-FELAFEL TEBBOULI SAI.AD 
• LEBANESE STYLE

SOUTH BEND 
GYROS

• 
Pita Stuffed Sandwich.. 

• 
Delightful Pa•tri ..• Turlr.uh Coffee 


Tue• -Sat 5:30PM -9:30PM COMPLETE CATERING FOR 
288-5639 
PARTIES & BANQUETS 838 PorlaB• live 


LOGAN CENTER 
ND/SMC Council for the Retarded 
Needs Volunteersfor 
THECAMPOUT THIS WEEKEND 4/20-4/21 
Leave from Logan Center 8:30am Saturday 
CALL TOM (x2508) or KATHY (x3604) for info 
tiHIIHINIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
SENIOR PARTY at LEE'S BBQ Thursday, April18 5 -lOpm 
$3.00 ALL YOU CAN DRINK BBQ 
$5.50 RIB TIPS BBQ 
$4.00 CHICKEN 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
McDONALD'S Campus Airlift 
We are expanding our delivery test for the remainder ofthe school year. 
Sunday thru Thursday 
Big Mac 1.65 Quarter Pounder wI Cheese 1.70 Quarter Pounder 1.60 McNuggets --9 piece 2.30 McNuggets --20 piece 4.40 Filet-0-Fish 1.25 Cheeseburger .90 Hamburger .80 Large French Fry 1.00 Any Pie .80 Any Cookies .60 Large Orange Juice 1.00 Any Shake 1.00 
28 more bite the dust. • • 
Bookstore Tournament 
Today'a Gamea Stepan 1 6:15-Still Virtually Unknown v. Byrne's By­Products Stepan 2 6:15-John Murphy's Slime Train VI v. 4 Guys Who Go All the Way ... Stepan3 
5:30 -Dribbling Dyxz II v. Post Consumptory White Castle Movements 6:15-Jack & the Giant Killers v. Raging Ray's 
CPAs Stepan4 
5:30 -Two Ionic. Two Doric & 1 Early Corin­thian v. Tofu Vegetables I 6:15-John Henry & the Longshoremenv. The Fastest White Guys on.. 
Stepan 5 
5:30-Don't Laugh v. Crimes Against Nature 
6:15-PB & Who Knows v. Little Waterbirds on the Prairie 
Stepan 6 
6:15-Showtime v. 5 Seniors Without a Job 
Stepan7 
6:15-Phillips v. Johnny Wad & the 4 Squirts 
Stepan& 
6:15-Bncklayer & the Hoopers v. That's What Made It Such a .. Bookatore9 
4:00 -We Love NO -Right v. 5 Guys Worse 
Than Tim Kempton 4:45-Negative v. Peewee & the Weebies 
5:30 -Red Barons v. Sweet Lou's Wild Kingdom 6:15-Pubic Ha~rs on Soap v. Rhythm Method Bookstore 10 4:00-The Dougherty Dudes v. Your Freudian 
Slip is Showing Again 4:45-Cubs Lose' v. Chicks Dig Us 5:30-Los Malandros v. The Beanheads 6:15-What the Duck v. Chicks Dig Fred Bas-
sell Lyona11 4:00-Catherine the Great Meets Mr. Ed Again 
v. Relax, We'll Do It 4:45-Law School Sucks v. Prime Time 5:30-Grappling in the Cosmic Wash v. Chicks 
Dig Us Now That We're .. 6:15-Lumpy, Cheese v. Captain Flathead & The Turbulent 4 
Freshman javelin standout 
Driscoll helps Irish in weight events 
200 feet this weekend against good competition at the Indiana Intercol­
competitor and hard worker. "He legiates.  Piane  sees  Driscoll  as  
The Notre Dame men's track team loves to throw the javelin, which "having  the  potential  to  win his  
has not been traditionally known for helps him maintain a good attitude event,"  

Since Driscoll primarily uses arm motion for distance, Potts wants him to develop better lower body mo­tion. "I need to get my technique down and continue weight train­ing," said Driscoll. 
When he throws, Driscoll pictures a hole to throw through, and strives to release at a 45 degree angle. "I am working on getting my front leg down and then coming through with more momentum," he added. 
Driscoll's long range goal is to throw 21 0 feet by the end of the season. He is hoping for better wea­ther conditions, since the majority of the meets have been in heavy wind. "College competition in­volves more pressure, but I have had more time to concentrate on the javelin," he said. 
Driscoll will lead the weightmen this Saturday at the Indiana 1ntercol­legiates. "Our objective is to win the meet, but because of key injuries, that will be difficult," said Piane. 
The mile relay will be weakened by the loss of Mitch Van Eyken, who will be replaced byJohn McNelis. In addition, sprinter Phil Gilmore is lost for the season because of two stress fractures. 
The Irish will face a tough Indiana University team, Purdue, Indiana State, and Ball State who won seven events against Notre Dame earlier this year. 
CANCER. 
NOT 
KNOWING 
THE RISKS ISYOUR GREATEST RISK. 
Lyona12 4:00-Ruunin' & Gunnin' Bancitesv. Maydog & 4 Men Named Dick 
4:45 -Ed Smierciak & 4 Other Guys Better Than John Pax0o v. DM3 B 
5:30-Uge & the Dragline Buckets v. Shooting C-Men 
6:15 -5 Guys With Packages the Mailman Can't Carry v. Return of the Oueef 
Women's Bookstore Stepan 1 4:45-RTHBKA v. Mexican Connection & the3 Wettas Stepan2 
4:45 -Samurai Sue & the Hari Karis v. The Dialectics Stepan3 4:45-The OUts v. The 5 W's Stepan4 
4:45-Skippies Need Not Apply v. Grin & Bear It 
Yeaterday'a Reaufta 
Stepan 1 
Hey Shi-Happens over Projectile Earwax From Hell by7 Revenge of the Fun Bunch over Feeney's Weenies by 17 Stepan2 Phi Runna Gunn over Masciopinto's Irish Armyby4 Mr. Coffee & the Non-Dairy Creamers over Defense Plus Two by 8 
Stepan 3 Big Black Mac Attack over International Man by7 Gumby Bloody Gumby over Kelly's Uncles by 
19 . Stepan4 The Shysters over Alpha Pi Sigma by 14 
Wild, Wooly & Wicked over MBA All-Stars, 25­23 
Stepan5 Chuck's Social Handicaps over Cyril Scooter & the Salvations by 6 Dangling Manhood over Hitler Youth by 10 

Stepan 6 Demented Doormats over Off by 6 
Stepan7 Rink Rats & a Zamboni Driver ov"' Bobby Knight & the Chair Throwers. 22-20 Stepan 8 Poodle Goes to Russia ove!' Hoop Da Doop by 
3 
Bookatore9 Drunk Drivers Against Mothers ove!' 4 Halfway Rectifiers & Zenerdiode by 14 2 Dillion Sweetwater over We Needed $5 To Play But Couldn't. .. by 16 4 Geeks & Pissy Little Ship over Psycho Eddie & the Domebuffe!'s by 5 Bookatore10 The Supreme Courters over Ron Reagan & 4 Other Guys Who Can't. .. by 11 5 Ethiopians Hungry to Win over Spaghetti With Noodles by 12 Spudz Zaremba & the Couch Potatoes ove!' 5 Guys That Wear ... by 9 4 Guys Who Still Wonder Why Barney ... ove!' Rand's Tuna Fishers by 8 
Lyona11 

Maladroits over The Ozone Range!'s by 2 
Six Shooters over Doctor Ruth Westheimer Eats Onion Rings by 5 Arsenal Gunners over Your Mother Does Deep Knee Bends ... by 8 4 D~ngleberries Looking For a... ove!' After Birth on Rye by 13 Lyona12 The Otd and Injured over No More Next Years by 11 Cubs Lose. Cubs Lose ove!' Just Curious, 2&­24 4 People & a Short Fat Guy ove!' A Gynecologist, A Proctologist. .. by 2 The Pedophilic Day Care Center ove!' Stork & the 4 Eggs, 22-20 
Women'a Bookstore 
Stepan 5 

Foul Trouble over LAGNAF by 10 
Grin & Bear It over USA for 5 Girls Who Couldn't Score by 2 Cabdrivers No. 2 over Ann Pettifer & the Female Circumcisions by 15 
By MIKE SZVMANSKI 
Sports Writer 

its weight events, but javelin thrower Brian Driscoll is deter­mined to change that image. 
Driscoll, a freshman from Philadelphia, has been noted by 
both Coach Joe Piane and Coach Ted Potts as an extremely good 
over the long indoor season with no meets," said Piane. 
Driscoll has thrown 205-7 in high school, and 191 this year. He and the coaches would like to see him throw 


We will take orders from all ND halls from 5pm to 1 Opm 
277-1688 
Our driver will call within 20 minutes to confirm the order and give you the time for delivery. 
We should have the order to you within 
15-20 minutes ofthe confirmation call. 
New deli~LTeries start Monday, April 15th 
277-1688 
(across from Marttn s) . • 
,... 272-8471 


The Observer Thursday, April 18, 1985-page 14 
Irish set at tailback, but fullback spot wide open 
ByJERRY MELIA to add some diversity to the tailback Sports Writer spot when the defense keys on Pinkett. To backup Pinkett is a tall 
In recent years, people have asso­order because much is expected of ciated Notre Dame football with a you. Jefferson wa..o; up to meet this good running game. A successful challenge, and has given the Notr~ rushing attack is important to a team Dame faithful a lot to cheer about in because it makes the other aspects • of an offense that much stronger. 
Spring Football 

The rea..o;onin~ for this being that the defem;e must first try to guard against the opponent's strength. In 
~·as 

keeping the ball on the ground the offensive team can control the clock and keep the defense on the field while weari.1g the defense down at the same time. the la..o;t two seasons. He ha..o; proven 
The recent Irish rushing success himself, especially during the 1984 has dt_.pcnded a great deal on the ef­campaign, and can only improve as forts of Allen Pinkctt, whose talents his Notre Dame career progresses. have brought him to be recognized Junior Lester Flemons who has a..o; one of the nation's best. When seen spot time throughout his Pinkett pcrforms to his capabilities, career and will play a more contri­the Irish have been able to win a lot buting role during his senior season. of football games easily. However, "Ibe fullback position is one that on those occa..o;sions that the junior needs to be developed during the tailback has an offgame, a great deal spring and fall practices because of of pressure is placed on other mem­the loss of Chris Smith and Mark bers ofthe team to pick up the slack. Brooks to graduation. 
Alonzo Jefferson has been the one 'lbese two seniors will be missed 
because of their dependability of coming through on short-yardage situations on third and fourth downs. It also was not unusual to see one of these bulky fullbacks come out of the backfield for a short pass play or screen. The 1985 Notre Dame fullback corps must be able to show the flexibility and diversity that Smith and Brooks displayed during their years wearing the blue and gold. 
Running back coach Mal Moore will be trying many different players to fill this wide-open position. Per· nell Taylor will be one that will be given a long hard look. Taylor, a 5­11, 211-pound sophomore, has not yet played a down for the Irish be­cause of rehabilitation from knee surgery in 1983, but has been working hard towards playing in the season opener. 
Freshman Frank Starns will also get a good chance for playing time. Starns, 6-4, 225-pounds, earned many prep honors in high school and will be a strong contender to replace Brooks or Smith. 
Men's tennis team sees record drop to 15-11 after loss to Northwestern 
By MIKE CARNEY 

Sports Writer 
lbe Notre Dame men's tennis team was defeated by the Wildcats of Northwestern, 8-I, on a very cold and windy Tuesday afternoon in Evanston, lll. 
'lbe. match was much closer than the score might indicate, as three of the singles matches were lost in final-set tie-breakers. 
Captain Joe Nelligan started off strong for the Irish, winning the first set of his match. After dropping the second set, Nelligan fought to tie the third set at 6-6, setting up the tie­breaker. 
Although Nelligan lost the tie­breaker and the match, Irish coach 
Tom Fallon said, "Joe looked very sharp and played perhaps his strongest match of the season against a very tough opponent." 
Mike Gibbons, playing No. two 
singles, also won the first set of his 
match. However, Gibbons lost the 
second set and the third set to 
produce another tie-breaker. Hard 
luck continued for the Irish, and 
Gibbons lost the tie-breaker on a 
controversial call. 
Another good performance was turned in by No. four singles player Dave Obert, who fell just short, 7-5, 7-6, as Northwestern swept all six singles matches. 
'lbe lone victory for the Irish was provided hy the No. 2 doubles team 


SMC splits in softball twinbill vs. Valparaiso 
ByANNEKARNATZ 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's softball team split with Valparaiso University in a double header yesterday on its home field, bringing the Belle's season record to 9-4. Valparaiso, an NC.AA Division I school, defeated Saint Mary's in the first game, 11-2, but the Belles came back in the second to win, I 5-6. 
Freshman pitcher Betty Mihalik started out strong as the Belles kept their opponent scoreless in the first two innings. Valpo began picking up runs fast after that, beginning with four in the third inning, two of which were scored on errors. 
The Belles' only two runs came in at the bottom of the second inning on senior Elaine Suess' line drive to right field. Saint Mary's only came up with two hits in the last four innings, while Valparaiso knocked in a run in both the fourth and fifth innings, three in the sixth, and two in the seventh. 
• Despite their lack of hits, the Belles exhibited some fine fielding. Senior Trish Nolan snagged line drives at shortstop in the second, third, and fourth innings. Center fielder Teresa McGinnis caught a high fly in the fourth, then rifled it home where catcher )anine Adamo tagged the runner out. 
The Belles' hitting turned around in the second game as they exploded in the second inning with nine runs. Suess, Adamo, and junior Cathy Logsdon all had base hits while 
Susan McCrory, McGinnis, and third 
baseman Katy Boldt hammered in a 
double, triple, and a double 
respectively. 
The Belles kept up their hitting streak with two runs in the third, fifth, and sixth innings. Valpo was never shut out, though. They managed single runs in the third and fourth innings, and a pair in both the fifth and sixth. 
Saint Mary's fielding was up to par again in the second half of the twin­bill. In the second inning, Nola:n picked up a grounder and tossed it to second baseman Kris Pantelleria, who fired it to Barb Theiss at first base for a double play. Adamo was also in rare form in the top of the third, as she faked out the runner at first, picking off the third-base run­ner and tagging her out. 
Logsdon, the winning pitcher for 
the Belles, also performed well. Her 
season record stands at 6-I. 
Saint Mary's assistant coach Sue Becher attributed the reversal in the team's performance in the second game to better concentration and less errors. 
"It was more ofa team effort in the second game," noted Becher. 
"If our bats had been as strong in the first game as they were in the second we would have taken two," said Saint Mary's Head Coach Scott Beisel. 
"Our heads just weren't in the first game," said Beisel. "Our defense was also not as good." 
The Belles will take on Grace Col­lege today at 3 p.m. at Grace. 

ot Nelligan and Paul Daggs. The other doubles teams did not fare quite so well, as Northwestern wrapped up its 8-I victory. The Irish season record slipped to I 5-I I. 
The Irish next travel to St. Louis to participate in the Midwestern City Conference tournament. 
"The Northwestern match was a good match for us to play before the conference tournament," com­ments Fallon. 
"We played pretty well in most of the matches, and several players are ready to peak. We should do well in the conference tournament." 
With a little luck and some nice weather, the Irish should do very well. 
With less than two weeks remain-shoulder separation suffered in the ing in spring practice, the Irish have Aloha Bowl. some starting spots not yet filled be-"I have been working very hard to cause of starters lost to graduation. recover." says Pinkett. "I will be 100 Spring and fall practices give those percent hy the fall." players who are low on the depth In observing the team, Pinkett has charts a chance to prove themselves been able to view the practices and possibly earn a starting position. more closely and feels the team is These practices also are viewed as a progressing rather well. way for regulars to get in shape for "The attitudes of the players the upcoming sea..o;on. seems great." says Pinkett. ""Ibis is 
Heisman Trophy Candidate Allen due to our strong finish a year ago." Pinkett is one of those players who Pinkett is hoping that his final year fits in the second category. Although will he the best one ever. Pinkett is not practicing this spring, "I am not going to make any he has had the opportunity to watch predictions about next year, hut I what is going on from the sidelines. want it to be the best because it is His absence from the field is due to a my la..o;t." says Pinkett. 
Looking for Summer Excitement? Join the group going to Yellowstone Ranch School in Emigrant, Montana 
Exciting experience in horse handling, mountain survival, float trips, Yellowstone outings and many more outdoor activities. A REAL WESTERN ADVENTURE! For info write: 
or phone:

Yellowstone Ranch School Box 663 (406) 848-7570 Emigrant, Montana 59027 

Budweiser1/2 bbl 
Little Kings 1/2 bbl 
Old MUwaukee 112 bbl 
Red, White and Blue 24 bottles 
t r•••·~ • • &' 1 tlr ·~OU 1 •!t'l"h• • ~ ~ ~u· 1 ,,, •I ~· 1 w1•nr•l ~ 1111~ •~H 
272·1522 2JJ.460J 233·8430 277-7176 295·6310 

--·-----~-------~-------------------------~ 
~t(Jt.cllC3L~----------------------------------------Th--u_r_sd_a_y_,A_p_r_il_1_8_,_1_98-5---p-a_g_e_1_5 
j 
Bloom County 
Hf:R~ 5Hf f5l 7Hf WOMIIN 
rm wvot.var 
W/17{ I 

Zeto 
ACROSS 1 Son of Noah 5 Pied­
10 Sweet potato 13 Alliance letters 14 Shaped like 
an egg 15 Time periods 17 Bedouin 18 Grass cutters 20 Lend a hand 22 Linesof 
flight 23 Sloths 24 Bone: pref. 25 Short approach 
to the green 29 Singer Eydie 33 Some actors 34 Outer: pref. 36 Term of 
affection 37-Peron 38 Put away 40 To and­41 Hence 43-alcohol ©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 4/18/85
All Rights Reserved

(solvent) 44 Ship 
45 Hangs on to 6 Russ. ruler 47 Bar connecting 7 Handle roughly wagon wheels 8 Lab vessels 49 "-among 9 Pardon ladies" 10 "Of true wood, 52 Kind of verb: of-" 
abbr. 11 Region 53 Practical one 12 Martin or 56 Fruit Moore 60 Quibble over 16 Draft org. 
fine points 19 Salem's state: 62 Shove abbr. 63 Adolescent 21 Possessive 
64 Declaim 24 Footstool 
• 65 A Gardner 25 Nerve 66 Eng. river 26 Le -,Fr. port 67 Lilts 27 Reflection 
68 Wild plum 28 Eight: pref. 30 Direct atten· DOWN tion 1 Make a sharp 31 Fr. river 
retort 32 Wearaway 2 Mata-35 Antelope 3 Coupd'-39 Egg-shaped 4 Women's 11ead· figures 
gear of olcl 42 Likesome 5 Shines stones 
Wednesday's Solution 
•MEADIWASH.SAMP 
W A L D 0 
A R E A A P E R A X I A L J_' C S I M I L E 
D I S P 0 S E T H R 0 N E S R 0 0 A T E S 
1-T 
Rr!;l. D A M E 
S VA liN ,A 
I 

R E E [DENTATE E A R R 
A X LIE TM I D 

I 

N G I A X I OIL 0 
G Y I S N 0 
I 
ELN 

G I N~ p E A s STARR 
NOVEL­

'A ERA TE 0I.!IRETTA 
B A C K S T A G E A X I 0 M I S E El A R A L S E N T A NEDS LESS ESSE. 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
OKIIY CRE6P.. IM &ONNA 8~ !IlL OVEK YOiJ (J(,lY ON II I 
.,~ ~ 
&!Rt5/ THEY .JiJST WfiNNfl HlfVE fUNl 
Kevin Walsh 
••• R~ SNS\KV ••• He:Y, GET 8A:K HERE!; 

"Criminy! Kevin's oozing his way up onto the table . . . . Some slugs have a few drinks and just go nuts!" 
Campus 
•4 
P.M. · Research Seminar, "Attitude as a Mediator in Advertising Effectiveness," Prof. Scott MacKenzie, Indiana University, GTE Emerging Scholar Series, Hayes Healy Board Room. 

•4:30 
P.M. · Mathematics Colloquium, "Minimal Surfaces and Function Theory On the Unit Disc," Prof. Frederic Jose de Vascon­celos Xavier, Purdue, Room 226 CCMB. 

•4:30 
P.M. · Reading, Robin Hemley, Widely Published Author, Reading From His Stories, South Lounge, 2nd Floor Mezzanine, Cushwa­Leighton library, Sponsored by SMC Dept. of English, Free. 

•7, 
9 & II P.M.· Film, "Bachelor Party," Engi· neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, 51.50. 

•7 
P.M. ·Lecture & FUm, Jack Gordon His­torian, On the Kennedy Assassination, Sponsored by SMC Government Club, Carroll Hall (SMC). 

•
7 · 9 P.M. · Ticket Distribution, For Tommy Shaw Concert & Rock-Alike Contest, LaFortune Ballroom & Haggar College Center, Free. 

•8 
P.M. · Play, "Moonchildren," Washington Hall, Sponsored by St. Edward's Hall, S1. 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
6:30p.m.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
28  ABC's Nightly News  
7:00p.m.  16  M0 A0 S0 H  
22  Three's Company  
28  jeopardy  
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
28  Wheel of Fortune  
8:00p.m.  16  Bill Cosby Show  
22  Special · Space  
28  Wildside  
34  34 Front  
8:30p.m.  16  Family Ties  

•8 
P.M. · Theater, "Our Spring Concert," Dance Studio, Regina Hall (SMC), Sponsored by ND/SMC Dance Theater, Sl. 

•8 
P.M.. Lecture, "Problems of a Trinitarian Reformulation of the Concept of God," Prof. Wolthart Pannenberg, University of Munich, library Auditorium. 

•8 
P.M. · Colloquium, "The Living Dead: Art and Immortality Among the Yoruba," Prof. Babatunde Lawai, University of Ife, Nigeria, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
P.M. · SMC Student Recital, Caroline Dil­lion, Soprano and Mary Nessenger, Mezzo, little Theatre. 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
BeefBurgandy Curried Chicken & Rice Eggplant Parmesan 
Saint Mary's Baked Meatloafw/Mushroom Gravy Sweet & Sour Pork Broccoli Cheddar Quiche Turkey Brazil 
9:00p.m.  16  Cheers  
28  Eye to Eye  
34  Mystery  
9:30p.m.  16  Night Court  
!O:OOp.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
28  20/20  
34  Masterpiece Theatre  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Newhart/Movie  
28  ABC News Nightline  
34  Movie  
!2:00a.m.  28  Love Connection  
!2:30a.m.  16  Late Night With David Letterman  
28  Africa: Cry on a Continent  
2:00a.m.  22  Nightwatch  

44 Hash marks 46 Cut 48 Goastray 50 "Strike while 
the iron-" 51 Jap. city 53 Alphabet 
sequence 
4/18/85 
54 Sword 55 Author Haley 56 Funny Johnson 57 Ringlet 58 Christiania 59 Biblical you 61 Fleming or 
Smith 



S~orts 
.' 

-
I RC UD5C't'Vet'/ t'PII l.JC'clcr 
Senior third baseman john Murphy takes a cut some bard luck, as the Boilers took both ends ofthe 
against Purdue in action from yesterday's twinbi/1, 13-3 and 13-8. For details, see Dennis Cor­
doubleheader atjakeKlineField. The Irish ran into rif{an's story below. 
Second round continues with physical play and close games 
ByPHILWOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 

Yesterday started off as a rather cool spring day, but it certainly warmed up as the day progressed. One reason for the higher tempera­tures in the afternoon could be the heat generated on the asphalt bas­ketball courts as the second round of the Bookswre Basketball Tourna­ment continued. 
Tempers flared on several courts and many intense, close games heated the crowds gathered around the courts as 28 teams earned spots in the I28-team third round. 
Lyons 12 was the site ofone of the most closely contested games yes­terday ac 4:45. Cubs Lose, Cubs Lose, 
Irish pitching falters, Purdue takes both games of twinbill, 13-3, 13-8 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 

lbe Purdue Boilermakers paid a visit to Jake Kline Field yesterday and showed the Irish why they lead the East Division of the Big 10. 'Ille Boilers pounded 28 hits and scored 26 runs en route to a doubleheader sweep. They breezed through the opening game, 13-3 but needed eight innings to get by the Irish, I 3­8, in the nightcap. With the sweep, the Irish fell to 11-21-l. 
In the first game, Purdue pitcher Tom Mayer was too much for the Irish batters. Mayer scattered three hits over five-and-one-third innings before a line drive off the bat of jackie Moran forced him from the game. Moran later scored the first of the Notre Dame's three runs on a single by shortstop Tom Shields. Shields followed Moran home on an RBI single by Mike Dorning. The Irish added a meaningless run in the seventh on a single by Moran and a double byJohn Loughran. 
Meanwhile, the Purdue batters roughed up three Irish pitchers. Starter and loser Buster Lopes ( 2-5) allowed single scores in the first and fourth bfore surrenderinmg three in the ftfth. The big blows were shortstop Elam Rossy's sacrifice fly and Troy Aeschliman's double. The Boilers added two more in the sixth before starting the hit parade in the wp of the seventh. 
Cubs Lose beat just Curious, 26-24, in a foul-filled game, which was the highest-scoring of the day. Scott Sulentich led the way by scoring 18 points on 34 shots for the Anti­Cubics, and Mike Fitzpatrick turned 
~~ 
: z> ·; 

in a 1 3-of-28 performance for the curious ones. 
In another high-scoring contest, Wild, Wooly and Wicked came out on top of MBA All-Stars, 25-23 on 
The Boilers sent 1 1 men to the plate as they scored six times in the frame. After Irish reliever Steve Powell gave up singles to Rossy and Pete Maniago, pinch hitter Gus Weismiller greeted Mike Harmon with a three-run homer over the leftfield wall. The Boilers scored three more in the inning on two walks, three singles and an error by left fielder Darryl Keilen. · 
The second game of the twin bill featured more hits than the Hagler­Hearns fight, as the Boilermakers dashed Irish hopes for a split. After starter joe Dobosh gave up an un­earned run in the first, The Irish manufactured a run in the third on an error by Purdue's Jose Rossy which allowed Scott Rogers to reach second, a sacrifice by Moran, and a sacrifice fly by Rich Vanthournout.. 
Purdue scored single runs in the fourth, fifth, and sixth innings, by which time the Irish had taken a 4-3 lead. From then on, what had been a tight game turned into a slugfest. The Irish scored three times in the bottom of the sixth. Vanthournout stroked a two two-out double off reliever Tracy Sprinkle to score first baseman Tim Hutson. When Shields followed with two-run homer, it ap­peared that the Irish were on their way to a split. 
But appearances were deceiving. After Jason Schoemer, the second Irish reliever, walked leadoff hitter jose Rossy, Bob Gerhart, Don Cox, Stepan 4 at 6:15. Patrick Reymann paced WWW with 16 points on 40 shots. Mike Kearney was the all-star for the MBAs, hitting 8-of-31. 

Four Rink Rats and a Zamboni Driver needed 22 points to overcome Bobby Knight and the Chairthrowers on Stepan 7 at 6:1 5. A balanced scoring attack provided the points for the Rink Rats, as Andy Cernicky hit 7-of-18, Hamil Cupero hit 7-of-19 and Tom White was 6-of­
17. Mike Sadlon gave a performance any Olympic coach would be proud of, with 10 points on 25 shots, and Shaun Powell added his 8-of-21 ef­fort for the losers. 
see BOOKSTORE, page 11 
and Elam Rossy all doubled to knot the score at seven. One out later, Boiler leftfielder Mark Stolarz reached Paul Mauk, on in relief of Schoemer, for a run scoring single. 
The Irish, though, refused to fold. With two away in the bottom of the seventh, catcher Mike McNeil cracked a homer to send the game into extra innings. But as the sun faded, so did the Irish hopes of a split. Jeff Allison led off the eighth with a double. After jose Rossy sacrificed him to third, Allison scored on Cox's sacrifice fly. Bob Shoulders followed with a double which brought on the fifth Irish pitcher, Bob Lee. Lee promptly delivered a wild pitch, allowing Shoulders to score from second. After a walk to Elam Rossy, Gus Weismiller hit his second roundtrip­per of the day. The Irish went down meekly in the bottom the inning, and Purdue had its sweep. 
Yesterday's twinbill was a good picture of the season to date. In the first game, the Irish had neither pitching nor hitting. When the Irish found their bats in the second game, their pitchers were not up to the task of holding the opposition. The Irish will hope to find consistency this weekend on the road at Detroit in Midwestern Cities Conference play. Notre Dame currently stands at 1-3 and in second place in the nor­thern division. 
Thursday, April18, 1985-page 16 
Memories flow at Wrigley Field 
Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 


Hello again, everybody! 
Wrigley Field. 

A timeless place, where the echoes of yesteryear mix with the 
sounds of today. A place where grown-ups play the game made for 
little boys, and more often than not, have played it like little boys. 
Nevertheless, no matter the circumstances, Wrigley Field is my 
Mecca. Yes, folks, I am a longtime Cubs fan. 
Pardon me, if you happen to not like the Cubs, and especially if 
you are a Mets fan. I know many ofyou heard the phrase "Cubs Win" 
ad nauseam last year, and really don't care to hear anymore about the 
exploits of the Cubs. Please be patient with those ofus who are Cub 
fans. Remember, for some people, last year was the first time they 
had ever heard the word win follow the word Cubs. We had to 
repeat it often to get used to it. 
Still, 1984 carried nearly as bitter a pill as 1969. Oh yes, I hear all 
you Mets fans laughing with glee at the mention of that year, when 
your team came from behind to fly past the Cubs and win the Na­
tional League and the World Series. That hurt Cub fans, although at 
the tender age offour, I was too small to care. However, I don't see 
how it could have hurt more than 1984, when one game-one lousy 
game -kept the Cubs from getting to the World Series for the first 
time since 1945. It was a lesson that life gets more cruel as we get 
older. 

However, on opening day at Wrigley, memories of '69 and '84 
blew away with the wind off Lake Michigan. Hope springs eternal on 
opening day at the corner of Clark and Addison every year, but last 
Tuesday was something special. It was my first Cubs opener, and 
with the aid ofa press pass, my first chance to actually be on Wrigley 
Field. All of a sudden this 19-year old became six again. Come with 
me to this time machine called Wrigley. 
It was a day filled with memories, and they started coming out as 
you stepped onto the field from the third-base stands. '111e grass be­
hind home plate was soggy from snow the day before, but the soft 
ground made it feel like you were walking on air. This is the same 
area which has been covered by such great Cub catchers as Gabby 
Hartnett, Randy Hundley, and jody Davis. Yes, it is also the same 
ground that has been covered by such Cub catchers as George Mit­
terwald, Steve Swisher, and Barry Foote. It seemed appropriate that 
you sink a little into the ground with every step you take. 
Walk a few steps, take a seat in the dugout, and look out on the 
field. It's not exactly the best view, hut it's still the best seat in the 
house. Think of the people who have sat here -there have been a lot 
of them. Winners like Leo Durocher and Jim Frey. Losers like James 
Rufus Marshall and Preston Gomez. jovial men like Charlie Grimm 
and the less-than-jovial likes of Lee Elia and Herman "Ball Park" 
Franks. Sit here and wish that you could have traded places with any 
ofthem for even one gamt•. 
Now leave the dugout, but slowly, as though you were going to 
the mound to put in Oscar Zamora from the bullpen. If you have 
never heard ofhim, you need only hear a few words from a bleacher 
lyric which recounted Zamora's pitching effectiveness to get a 
feeling for him... 

When the ball bitsyour bat On a pitch that isfat That's Zamora! 
Well, maybe you shouldn't leave the dugout that slowly. Take a few strides towards the mound, and look to the bullpen. Think how you could have once put in Bruce Sutter. Think how one year later. you would have had to put in Dick "30 seconds over Tokyo" Tidrow (he earned his nickname because it took him only 30 seconds to blow a lead). Thank goodness a ball rolls to your feet to bring you back to reality. 
As you pick up the ball, you notice that it came down from the bullpen and bullpen coachJohnny Oates is calling for it. Now's your chance to be discovered. You knew those sessions with the pitchback would pay off sometime. Show him that fabulous fastball. Now cringe as you see your toss bounce three feet in front ofOates like a wounded duck. Now you know why you had to get a press pass to get on the field. 
Shake it off, and stroll out to the wall and touch the ivy. Yes, it's brown now, but soon it will be as green as the outfield grass, and swallowing up fly balls. It's the ivy that Ernie Banks was swinging from on my first visit to Wrigley on August 19, 1970. It's the ivy that some fans swear Lou Novikoff never touched during a four-year career as a left fielder for the Cubs. Touch the ivy, rub it in your hands and against your cheek.·Dream of leaping into this stuff, and coming out with a baseball to the delight ofthe bleacher bums above you. Even though, it's brown, the ivy is beautiful. 
However, the dream world ofyour mind is once again confronted by reality. Batting practice is over, and the people with the funny tags hanging from their belt loops have to leave so the grown men with the holes in their socks can play the game of little boys. It's funny how until the game starts, you had forgotten that it wao; windy and 35 degrees. That doesn't matter, though. Keith Moreland homers. Rick Sutcliffe and Lee Smith pitch marvelously. Your final is Chicago 2, Pittsburgh I. Cubs win! 
And Wrigley Field remains timeless as it etches another memory. 


