
Giacobini-Zinner -page 4 

VOL XX, NO. 14 
Estimate for tornado damage at 2 million 
Associated Pre1111 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -A tornado that skipped through an industrial park and a residential area caused J2. I million in damage to buslneS-'it'S. homes and vehicles civil defense officials said yesterday. 
The slender funnel cloud that formed without warning Monday struck four businesses in an in­dustrial park, 2c; homes in a nearby neighborhood and 20 cars and trucks, St. joseph County Civil Defense director Don Germann said. 
"We were very fortunate because there were no Injuries," he said. City Inspectors based the estimate on site surveys. 
An official damage estimate is necessary If civil defense officials decide to ask for eligibility to apply for disaster relief loans, Germann said. 
"I've been trying to call the state office this (yesterday) morning with these figures to see where we stand," he said. "It's hard to say be· cause they keep changing the rules." 
Most of the damage, an estimated 
11.8 million, occurred in the in­dustrial park on the northwest side, officials said. South Bend Forge Inc., Transcon Unes Inc., American Tool and Die: Inc. and Logan Industries, a workshop for the handicapped, were damaged. 
Damage to homes forced four familks to seek shelter with relatives while repair work began, Germann said. 
"It looks like the house was lifted from Its foundation," said Edmond Hagenlc:rs Jr., the owner of the house most heavily damaged by the tornado. 
New Indiana alcohol legislation to 'increase business' at Senior Bar 
ByJOHN WALTERS 
Sen to,. 514/J Reporter 
A new state law effective Sept. I abolished happy hours in Indiana.' But that's not worrying managers at Senior Bar. 
"If anything, It will increase our business," said Kevin Morrissey, one of the club's student managers. 
"The: happy hour law" is designed to curb irresponsible drinking. The law states that "an establishment ser­ving liquor In Indiana is not per­mitted to have a period during the business day where the price of a drink can rise or fall," said Lt. Larry Keane of the Indiana Excise Police. 
"Prices of a drink may vary from day to day, but they must remain set for the entire evening. Two-for-one drink specials are also prohibited under this law," Keane said. 
While local tavern owners probably will feel the financial pinch of this legislation, the managers at Senior Bar said the law will be a boon for business. 
"We don't hold happy hours anyway," said Morrissey. "None of our specials conflict with the happy hour law. Now students who may have been tempted to visit Bridget's or Corby's for a happy hour or two­for-one night might decide to stop in here instead," he said. 
Ciel Paulsen, advisor to Senior Bar, said the new law will pose no problems because the club does not offer happy hours. 
"Our senior managers are more conscientious (than other tavern owners). Profit is not our primary goal. We want to run an efficient business and provide the of-age seniors and alumni with a fun place to congregate. We don't encourage irresponsible drinking," Paulsen said. 
Area bar owners probably will find ways to get around the new law, Paulsen said. 
Although she said she thinks the law has good intent, she added that the "happy hour law" contains many loopholes. "Bars can still offer reduced drink nights on any night of the week, and they can fix the price ofa drink while Increasing the size of 
..:.·'~:!:.~!---··--..·--....,.~ .....
You can't run • • • 
Tbese Navy ROTC midshipmen may appear to be 
running from tbe Blob, but they're actually par­
ttctpating in tbeir bi-annual pbystcal fitness test, 
Pasquerillas are hot and bothered over lack of ventilation in dorms 
By TRIPP BALTZ 
SmffReporter 
Claiming their dorms are "like a sauna" and "unbearably hot," resi­dents of Pasquerilla East and West have submitted a written plea to the University requesting an Investiga­tion into a solution to the problem. 
"During the past weekend it was very oppressive. There is no moving air here. If you go up on the fourth floor, it's like walking into a cloud of (stagnant) air," said Sister Joris Binder, rectress of Pasquerilla East. 
Notre Dame Physical Plant Direc­tor Don Dedrick disagreed with Binder. "There is no reason why they (the Pasquerillas) should be hotter than Badin (or any other dorm)," he said. 

the container it's served in," Paulsen said. 
Paulsen set up a workshop bet­ween Senior Bar managers and the Alcoholic Beverage Commission to discuss ways to encourage respon­sible drinking. 
"We have the advantage of a definite crowd and improved facilities," Morrissey said, "but we have to be more careful than other bars. Our bartenders are students and they can be held liable for alcohol-related accidents. Plus, we must be strict In regards to carding, since we must answer to the Univer­sity. That's what the workshop was all about." 
Senior Bar has not become a lemonade stand, though. While 25­cent beer nights were abolished, 50­cent, 14-ounce draft nights, along with import nights and other spe­cials will continue at the club. 
The club also has expanded to of­fer more than just liquid refreshment. 
"We're going to serve pizza, subs and hot dogs," said Morrissey, former manager of Dillon Hall food sales. 
Over the weekend, lounges and study rooms were empty because of the heat. Students avoided sleeping In high lofts. Some chose to sleep on the floor with their doors open and their heads out in the hallways, Binder said. 
"If we open up the fire doors, it's against safety regulations," Binder said. "And since we're near the street, we can't open the doors below and out back. The girls suf­fered in the heat this weekend rather than take a chance with security. I offered to let them sleep downstairs in the chapel. I don't know how they made it this weekend." 
The Pasquerillas originally were designed with air-conditioning. "That's the problem," Binder said. "Because of the design, windows in 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1985 
wbicb took place yesterday. Tbe brisk 3-mtle run around tbe lakes ts one oftbree tests tbey mustpass to meet tbe Navy's physical standards. 
all the lounges can't be opened, and the ones in the rooms can oniy be opened a little bit." 
The room windows tilt out from the bottom, so air has to get up un­derneath them to get inside. 
"Even then, the girls only have cross-ventilation ifthey and the resi­dents across the hall leave both their doors and windows open," Binder said. __. Usa Thummes, a resident of Pasquerilla West, said, "Many doors were open (this past weekend). When people were loud, you couldn't shut the door because it was so hot." 
The problem is worst in the dorm's central lounges. Here the sun 
see PASQUERILLAS, page 4 

Kidnapping van found 
ANodated Pre.. 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador· Security forces recovered a stolen red van used to kidnap President Jose Napoleon Duarte's daughter and another woman, a top official here said yesterday. 
But, despite a massive search, there were no clues about the victims' whereabouts or fate. 
Julio Adolfo Rey Prednes, the president's closest adviser, said yesterday that a second woman was kidnapped along with lnes Guadalupe Duarte Duran. He identified her as Ana Cecilia Vel­leda, 23, a university student and a secretary at the radio station run by the president's daughter. 
It was the first report that a second woman was kidnapped Tuesday afternoon at the same time as the president's daughter. 
Security officials only said Duarte Duran, 35, was kidnapped when she drove up to the New San Salvador University, where she attends classes. Six armed men in civilian clothes sur­rounded her car, shot and killed the driver and wounded one of her bodyguards. 
Witnesses, who asked not to be identified for reasons of safety, said the men dragged Duarte: Duran out oft.he Toyota and took her away at gunpoint in the waiting van. The wounded guard was reported alive but in critical condition. Another bodyguard was unharmed. 
After meeting with his Cabinet much of the morning, a worried­looking Duarte appeared bridly at a news conference in the presidential residence in the early afternoon, but refused to disclose any information of im­portance concerning the raid. 
Rey Prendes said police recovered a red van which the kidnappers used to get away from the university. He said the van was found by police late Tuesday at La Rabida, a lower middle·dass neighborhood in the southeas­tern part ofthe capital. 
A presidential source, who asked anonymity for security reasons, said the van was one of four vehicles that gunmen stole at gunpoint a few hours before the kidnapping. · 
Pipe leak holds up LaFortune renovation 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
Senior SmffReporter 
The renovation of the LaFortune Student Center suffered a minor set· back when water leaked into the little Theater in the wake of last week's rain. 
Although the damage was mini­mal, the situation has caused some concern for Brother Frank Gorch, LaFortune's manager. 
"The flooding happened a few times this summer, although we didn't have a lot ofrain," said Gorch. "All the water came up from the storm sewer in the southeast corner of the building. The water just bubbled up like a fountain." 
Gorch is not certain ofthe source of the flooding. One possible ex­planation for the problem is a break in one of the many underground sewer pipes, he said. 
The cause of the break is equally uncertain at this point, Gorch said. Physical Plant Director Don Dedrick is conducting an investigation ofthe matter. Gorch speculated that the pipe was broken during some plumbing work done last May, Im­mediately after graduation. 

The purpose for the underground plumbing project was to lay the twenty-four inch piping needed to transport cold water for the Memorial library's air conditioning system, said Gorch. 
"The Dye Plumbing Co. of LaPorte, Ind. did the work. They are an excellent company and their work has been very good. However, in laying the piping for the chill 
see LaFORTUNE, page 4 

r 
r 
~ 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
The Observer 

In Brief 
The Student Activities Board at Notre Dame 
was assembling final evidence this week for submission to the Guin­ness World Records company to claim the undisputed title for par­ticipation in a musical chairs game. Board members claim their total of 5,I5I participants during an all-campus picnic Friday surpassed the old record of 5,060 held by the State Univerisity ofNew York at Albany. A freshman from Garnerville, N.Y., William Patrick Brosnan was awarded a color television set as the surviving chair holder. Faculty and administrative personnel at Notre Damewere present to verify the numbers participating, and at least one video tape of the event was recorded. -The Obseroer • 
City firefighters in Evansville, Ind. have been ordered to stop burning condemned houses as training exercises by Mayor Mic­hael Vandeveer. The mayor's office received I 0 complaints after firefighters torched two vacant houses Monday, spokesman Terry Grimm said. Fire Chiefjohn Behme said hot weather probably made that day a poor choice for the exercise. "It was very hot," Behme said, "and the smoke just stayed on the ground. It probably bothered a lot ofpeople." -AP 
The man who led the expedition that found the sunken liner Titanic said today he has "no doubt" the big loss of life could have been averted if another ship, the Californian, had moved to rescue the passengers. Robert Ballard, chief scientist of the U.S.­French team, said the Californian was "inside of I 0 miles, perhaps as close as four miles," when the Titanic began foundering after striking an iceberg on April I4, I912, and "there is no doubt it could have gone in there and rescued those people." The captain ofthe Califor­nian, Stanley Lord, reported he was too far from the doomed liner to help. Another ship, the Carpathia, did steam to the area and helped rescue about 700 of the Titanic's survivors. More than I,500 perished. -AP 
The 1985 corn crop is estimated at a record 8.47 bil­lion bushels, up 2 percent from the forecast a month ago and 11 percent more than last year's harvest of 7.66 billion bushels, the Agriculture Department said yesterday. Last month, the depart­ment's initial production estimate of the season showed the corn harvest at 8.27 billion bushels. The latest estimate was based on in­dications as ofSept. I. -AP 
Of Interest 
Volunteers for Special Olympics are 
needed. There will be a brief informational meeting for anyone in­terested in helping during the event tonight at 7 in the New Orleans Room of LaFortune Student Center. Volunteers are needed for coaching and numerous other duties. -The Obseroer 
Information and applications for the 1986 
Indiana Senate Majority Intern Program are now available to in­terested sophomores, juniors, seniors and graduate students by con­tacting Professor George Brinkley of the Notre Dame government department. -The Obseroer 
Weather 
Sweater weather. Sunny and con­tinued cool today, high near 75. Northeastwind I O-I5 mph. Clear tonight, low in the low to mid 50s. Sunny tomorrow, high around 75. -AP 

The .Obser:ver. 

lbe Obeerver (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home footbaU Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Obeerver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be .,purchased for 130 per year ( S20 per se· mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
~ Observer Is a member of lbe 
A.s8ocWed Prns. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Today's Issue was produced by: 

Design Editor ................. Mark Mclaughlin Layout Staff................................ BUI Harvey Typesetters .................... Becky Gunderman Mary EUen Harrington CharlesJ. Papandrea News Editor ........".....................john Heasly Copy Editor ................................ Miriam HUI Sports Copy Editor .................. I.arry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ Doug Hasler Viewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor ................... Ed Nolan Features Layout ............... Mariel Labrador ND Day Editor ...................Sharon Emmite SMC Day Editor ................. Maryjean Sully AdDesign .................. Mary Carol Creadon joan Wrappe Peter Georges Pbotograpber ............................ Pete Laches 
Thursday, September 12, 1985-page 2· 
Equal time, freedom of speech, and other ideas at Notre Dame 
What do an outstanding spokesman for the Catholic Church and an ex-convict/drug user have in common? 
Very little, except the honor of speaking at Notre Dame, the most prestigious Catholic university in America. 
Timothy Leary, a convicted drug smuggler and the self-proclaimed "messiah ofi.SD" is speaking on campus tonight. Cardinals joseph Bernardin and John O'Connor, two of the most articulate and well-known upholders of Christian values, will present a joint lecture on Oct. I. 
How is it that individuals ofsuch differing repute are allowed to air their views at one and the same place? 
The choice of controversial speakers is certainly no accident. Michael Vore, chairman of the Ideas and Issues Committee which is responsible for Leary's and many other campus lecture invitations, believes they add a dimension of interest. "We're looking for people that will bring an unusual perspective to campus," he says. 
In fact, Vore says he was chosen for his position be­cause he promised to bring in controversial speakers. On his agenda for the future is Abie Hoffman, founder of the Yippie movement and one of the "Chicago Seven" tried for conspiring to incite riot. 
In the past, other Univer­sity departments have also raised not a few eyebrows by sponsoring such speakers as Christie Hefner, president of the Playboy pornography empire, and pro-choice feminist Eleanor Smeal. 'Ht 
"There is a perception on campus that the student body is conservative. I question that. Seeing the interest (the speakers generate) will prove that point," Vore said. 
Such lecturers also have the distinct advantage of drawing much larger audiences. The Student Activities Board has made the most of this by playing up Leary's notorious past in its advertising for his lecture. All available tickets to the Washington Hall appearance have been given out in advance, and as of last night there was a waiting list of 500. 
If Vore does receive any objections to the Leary lecture, he can be sure they will not come from the University. Notre Dame has an official open-speaker policy (stated in Du Lac) allowing students the freedom to choose any speaker they wish. 
Several decades ago, the University would not have allowed such a policy. Speaking invitations to such per­sonages would have been shocking and scandalous. But Notre Dame has radically shifted ground in the balanc­
~~ 
..... 


Mary Healy 
Accent Editor 
ing act of being both Catholic and a. university. And there is a constant need to re-evaluate its position on the balance. 
Obviously, for fruitful intellectual growth and dialogue, a free play of ideas is essential. Catholics need other views to bounce offtheir own. As Vore points out, "They make us a, little less smug about our own opinions." Notre Dame recognizes this well. 
But should that principle be limitless, or can a line be 

drawn somewhere? There is more than an ivory-tower discourse to consider. Stu­dents, alumni, other Cat­holic schools and many ordinary Americans hold Notre Dame up as an ideal and pay attention to wh;u it accepts and upholds. 
When Notre Dame ac­cepts the likes of Timothy Leary among the ranks of those who contribute to our intellectual dialogue, it is sending out a· message. It is vesting them with a legitimacy and respec­tability they would not ot­herwise have. 
These are people who advocate drug usage, por­nography, and abortion, . views the Catholic Church 

regards as not only mistaken but immoral. But Notre Dame is saying "They're OK. They have a valid message, too." 
In doing this, the University seems to project an image of neutrality and openness to all ideas. But to many, this stance also says that all ideas, including those of the cardinals and of Leary, are equally valid. 
It says that notoriety is just as good a criterion as recognized intellectual excellence for that distin­guished honor -an invitation to speak at Notre Dame. 

The Observer encourages the free expression or opinJons through lcttcn to the edJtor. Letters sbouJd be brid(approxJmateJy 2SO words) and typed whcncvcl'possiblc. All letters should be signed (aJtbouJit the aulhor's name need not be published), and should include a phone Rumbcr·at which the audtor may be reached. Lcucn arc published on a spacc·ava.Uablc basis. Lee· tcrs are edited co correct errors in grammar and for space considerations. 

~~._...~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ILOST: Diamond Engagement Ringt 
f be\9 (possibly in the vicinity ofthe Grotto) ~~ f9\eo•e HUSBAND WILL KILL IFNOT FOUND!! 
t Reward Iffound 232-6069 t 
.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
6tud
entJAlurmiHIation!) Group 

0P ~~Thur6.0lJSt
.6<tPt. 12' 6-8p.m. tn fronl of' the. 
Admini~bral\on Building 
+-.. :Pick up SARG group inro. «&--.. Mtf.l: SARG and .Alumni 
:A~~oc..iation staPf's. 
.:8-w Rll out application~ fbr SARG commiUu po!li bon~. 
MU61C·l<EFRE~HMENT6 
Thanks to you... • 
It works ... 
for ALL OF US Un~M~~W.U 

Main Event "Friday the 13th Match"· No Referee, . No Disqualification, No Time (lmltl Scott 6. Sam Reynolds ,j 
vs. "Mad Greek" Tolos • The Sheik For the lndlgng Tgg Jegm Title! 
Plus, Midwest Heavyweight Champ Terry "The Hammer" Scholl,6'6,3021bs. vs. The "New" Sonny R<?gers Special Attraction· Ladles MatchI Zebra Girl vs. Honey B. Novak, temale powerlllllng champion. 
Plus Eliciting Opening Matches! 
King Kobra,6'5,3421bs. vs. Marine Sgt. Rock Zebra Kid vs. "Golden Boy" Mike Sommer& All NailIIIII~15. Tlckell now on aole at: Century Center lox Olllce 120S.SI.Joseph St., South Bend 21W-9111 
The Observer Thursday, September 12, 1985 -page 3 
Portuguese train crash claims at least 100 lives 
Associated Pre1111 to determine the number of injured because they had been taken to 
VISEU, Portugal · More than 100 many different hospitals. people were reported killed when an express train loaded with im­According to railway officials, the migrant workers bound for France accident occurred at 6:40 p.m., slammed Into a domestic passenger when the behind-schedule train yesterday, according to eastbound international train hit a firemen at the scene. Coimbra-bound local train between 
Prime Minister Mario Soares, who the towns ofMangualde and Nelas in flew by helicopter to the crash site the mountainous Serra da Estrela near this town In central Portugal, region. said the accident was the worst in Alvaro Rodrigues, a ticket collec­the history of the country's railway tor on one of the trains, told ANOP 
system. he managed to escape with two 
Firefighters and witnesses said women when the car they were cars in the two trains tipped over riding in tipped over. and burst into flames, setting a pine "I could do no more because forest along the tracks on flre as well. flames were spreading through the 
carriage, and I feared explosions," 

The domestic news agency, hesaid. .. ANOP, and the state televison, RTP, Hospital authorities in Viseu, 183 quoted the firemen giving the death miles northeast of the capital, Lis­
ftgures. bon, aJfpealed for donations of 
Sophomore Sam Dempsey was lucky enough to p.m. after WVFI announced tbe bard-to-get tickets 
ANOP also quoted police as blood, and police asked people to 
get tbe last Michigan ticket from Don Dickenson would be on sale there. Tbe tickets were left over 
saying there were another 140 stay away from the scene to facilitate 
yesterday. Students raced to Declo Faculty Hall at 5 from last Friday's lottery. 
injured. But RTP said It was difficult removal of the dead and injured. 

One common cold virus 'mapped;' vaccine a possibility 
Associated Pre1111 
WASHINGTON· A group ofscien­tists headed by a Purdue University professor said yesterday they have ftnally mapped one of the tiny viruses that cause the common cold, raising hopes for vaccines or other drugs to ftght any number of life-threatening or merely pesky viral ail­ments. 
The flndings could lead to new progrcss against diseases ranging all the way from snlffies to multiple sclerosis to leukemia and perhaps even to the mysterious and deadly AIDS virus, the lead researcher, Purdue University professor Mic-had Rossmann, said at a news con­ference. 
Ue said there was great scientific significance in his group's ability to put together a three-dimensional map of a human virus · the ftrst time such a viral code has ever been cracked · making it possible to study exquisitely tiny interactions within the body. 
He made it clear, however, that drug-counter applications of his flo­dings are still hopes rather than realities. 
Rossmann, whose Purdue team workeq in collaboration with a Uni­versity of Wisconsin group headed by Roland Rueckert, said there ac­tually may never be a one-shot vaccine for colds because they can be caused by more than I00 dif­ferent viruses. 
Still, he said that in light of his group's ftndings, "it may be possible to find a cure for the cold that may not be along the lines of a classic vaccine" · a drug, for example, that would attack not the virus itself but would involve the site where the virus attaches to healthy cells. 
As for broader significance, an of­ficial of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases said in an interview that Rossmann's fin· dings were "a good basic piece ofin­formation." 
"It takes a lot of pieces to put together something of clinical im­portance," added William Allen, a virology program officer for the federal institute, which helped pay for the research. 
He said Rossmann and Dr. Robert Gallo of the National Cancer In­stitute were already setting up an ex­periment aimed at mapping leukemia-linked viruses using the same high-technolgy processes used on the cold virus. The virus that ap­parently causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome, orAIDS, could eventually be part of that effort, though success in that area "is very ~rv·rH,btivt> " Allen said. 

Ross.mann said he was most con· cerned with understanding viruses, but he also said the new results made a drug against colds "much more possible, absolutely." 
Seeing the cold virus' structure in detail down to three hundred­millionths of a centimeter gives scientists crucial clues on how the virus attaches to healthy cells, he said. He described a 20-sided, soccer-ball-shaped organism with a protein shell surrounding a core of the genetic material ribonucleic acid. 
Possible cold defenses suggested by such information include development of a drug that would mimic the receptors where the virus can attach to healthy cells, said David Kingsbury, assistant director of the National Science Foundation for biological, behavioral and social sciences. Such a drug might attract and soak up the viruses before they could bring on the sneezes and stuffy noses. 
The NSF and the NIH also helped pay for the experiments, which relied heavily on such high­technology machinery as Purdue's 205 supercomputer and the Cornell University High Energy Synchrotron Source. 
Basically, the experiments in­volved growing virus crystals, which were then subjected to X-rays at Cornell, where the synchrotron col­lected more than 6 million bits ofIn­formation, which were then analyzed by Purdue's supercom­puter. 
Rossmann said he had wanted to conduct such experiments for more than 20 years but they were simply impossible before development of such advanced machinery. 

First comet-satellite encounter a success 
more expensive and sophisticated
Associated Pre1111 satellites to intercept the better­known Halley's comet next spring · GREENBELT, Md. · A hardy little to the punch. satellite glided unscathed through The preliminary results showed the tail of a comet and temperatures that the comet was preceded by of one-half million degrees yester· some sort of shockwave, much like day, in the first on-the-spot sampling that of a boat plowing through ofa comet in human history. It found water. But scientists who had turbulent electrical activity but predicted there would be such a surprisingly little dust. bowshock were puzzled. "From the human perspective, from the project point ofview, from "We see some kind ofphenomena the scientific perspective, mankind's which looks like it's associated with first encounter with a comet has to shock and yet we're having difficulty be ranked an unqualified success," identifying the shock," Smith said. said NASA scientist Edward Smith. S.J. Bame of Los Alamos National The satellite, called the Interna­Laboratory in New Mexico said tional Cometary Explorer, inter­there was evidence ofwhat could be cepted the comet Giacobini-Zinner a bowshock seven hours before the 44 million miles above Earth and satellite got to the tail. spent 20 minutes traveling through a tail 14,000 miles wide. "In this shock-like region, condl· tions were very turbulent and you
Its mission was to sample space 
really couldn't get a very good
plasma, the electricallycharged mat­
handle on exactly what the situation ter that occupies most of the limit· 
was because things changed so less void. 
rapidly," he said. "But after a while 
Fears that dust might cloud the 
things settled down and we saw a spacecraft's electricity producing 
hot electron plasma at temperatures
solar cells and reduce its ability to 
up to about half a million degrees for transmit data proved groundless. So 
a while." 
did worries that even a gravel-sized particle could change the direction Some scientists had thought that of the satellite's antenna away from the comet, making a turn around the Earth. sun every six years, would have little 
"It looks like very little happened influence on its space surroundings. to it," flight director Robert Far'&. But the first-hand encounter quhar, who had given the satellite showed, one scientist said, that only a 50-50 chance, said at the God· "there is a particle accelerator in the dard Space Center here. sky." Particle accelerators, ollso 
With their achievement, called atom smashers, speed par· American scientists beat the Soviet tides along, then smash them to Union -which is sending two much expose what they are made of. 
---~------~-­
The Observer Thursday, September 12, 1985 -pag_e 4 
MDs express concern over heart transplants 
Associated Press to answer publicly what is going wrong, ifthe program is to continue. 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Three centers Dr. Robert Levine, professor of received permission recently to im­medicine and chairman of the Yale plant the Jarvik-7 artificial heart in University medical school's human humans, but medical authorities investigation committee, said he concerned about strokes suffered by thinks DeVries' experiments should four ofsix recipients, including Wil­be halted for the time being. liam Schroeder of Jasper, Ind., Human experiments with the believe the research should stop un­device as a temporary measure -in til surgeons determine what is which the pump would be removed causing the problem. when recipients can accept human 
Dr. William DeVries, chiefclinical heart transplants -could continue 
investigator of the mechanical but only under extreme caution, pump, has implanted the device in Levine said. four patients. Two have suffered "There are serious problems with strokes. Another suffered severe the device that do not seem to be neurological complications and the getting the attention they deserve, at fourth died of unrelated causes. least not in the review process," 
Levine told The Courier-journal in Two otherJarvik-7 f6Cipients, one Louisville. 
in Arizona and one in Sweden, also Dr. Peter Frommer, deputy direc­have suffered strokes. 
tor of the National Institutes of 
DeVries, who is based at Humana Health's Heart Lung and Blood In­
for photographers along the beach there on Mon­
Hospital Audubon, has called stroke stitute, described the problems with
day. 

a common complication of the thejarvik heart as "very serious." 
procedure. He has said he strongly 
suspects that blood clots tem­Levine and Frommer were mem­
porarily blocking the flow ofoxygen bers of an NIH committee that
Drug-running parachutist killed; 
to his patient's brains, causing recommended increased federal 
stroke, originated in or near the funding earlier this year for artificial 
heart. He plans to continue his work. heart technology. "But we took
$41 million worth of cocaine found 
great pains not to show any aware­Symbion Inc., the Salt Lake City ness of what was going on in Louis­
As8oclated Press Ky. Police had no further informa­"There was a trickle ofblood from manufacturer of the plastic and me­ville," Levine said last week.
tion about the man, who carried 35 his nose that had dried on each tal unit, has said it believes the ex­
Unless surgeons have a strategy toKNOXVILLE, Tenn. -A heavily kilograms ofcocaine in an Army duf­cheek. Other than that he looked periments should continue and avoid strokes "they should pausearmed parachutist, wearing a bullet­fel bag, as well as two automatic OK,"Johnson said. "He was lying on expand so more information can be and ask themselves questions aboutproof vest and carrying $14 million weapons, several knives and rope, his back with his knapsack half un­obtained. 
when to proceed," Dr. Claude Len­
worth ofcocaine, fell to his death in and was wearing night-vision derhim." Surgeons at three medical centers fant, director of the National Heart,
a residential driveway early yester­goggles. -the University of Arizona, Univer­
Metro Narcotics Squad Lt. jerry 
Lung and Blood Institute, told The
day when his chute failed, police Knox County Medical Examiner sity of Pittsburgh and University of
Day said the man was "aiming for 
Washington Post last week. 
said. Randall Pedigo said the parachutist Minnesota -have received permis­
this area and there was probably"I got up to shave and looked out appeared to have been dead for sion recently from the U.S. Food and Barton Bernstein, a Stanford Uni­
someone supposed to meet him." 
my window and saw him," said Fred eight hours when the body was Drug Administration to use the versity historian who has followed Detective Charles Coleman said
Myers, 85, who discovered the body found at 8:45a.m. device on a temporary basis. Four ot­each step of the artificial heart 
.the death appeared to be an acci­
yesterday morning. "It looks like he "He had bags attached her medical centers are seeking program, said he believes neither 
dent.

jumped out with too heavy a load." everywhere," said Ralph Johnson, similar approval. the hospitals where the pump has 
"He had several IDs on him, all dif­
The victim was identified as 63, a neighbor ofMyerswho notified DeVries is the only surgeon with been used nor the FDA are fulfilling a 
ferent. We're checking to see which
Andrew Carter Thornton II, of Paris, authorities. permission to use the pump as a per­responsibility to monitor the experi­
one is his," said Coleman. 

manent replacement and has three ments. The victim's main parachute ap­more implants to perform in the first The chairman of the Audubon way to the steam plant. It was their 
parently failed to open and the phase of the project. committee that reviews DeVries'digging that necessitated the new reserve chute had been deployed, Some medical ethics experts work said Tuesday that he con­
LaFortune 

sod between Cavanaugh and Zahm." 
Coleman said. believe DeVries and Symbion need sidered such criticism unfair. 

continued/rom page 1 
water, they had to criss-cross a lot of other pipes and may have broken the sewer pipe inadvertently," Gorchsaid. 
"The Dye Co. had to dig down 18 to 20 feet, running from LaFortune, past Cavanaugh and Zahm, all the 

Because the pipes are under­ground, Gorch could not offer an es­timate of the cost of the repairs. He did remark that the repairs could run "from n 00 to several thousand dollars depending on the extent of damage." 
Dedrick was not available for comment. 
been very helpful. He said he hadn't realized the problem was so bad and r was glad that I had pointed it out,"
Pasquerillas 

r Hand said at the meeting.continuedfrom page 1 Dedrick told Hand at that time
r 
I 
beats down on large windows that that he would recommend that the cannot be opened, further heating dorms be air-conditioned. the already warm rooms. Mm;-e recently, however, Dedrick 
"When the elevator reaches the said that although the Pasquerillas fourth floor, you step out and feel are designed to accept air­heat rising in the lounge," said one conditioning, their air exhaust sys­
resident. tem is not worse than those ofother 
r "We're not pushing for air­dorms. conditioning," Binder said. "We just "The air circulation is better than need real, cross-ventilation. Now it's in older dorms. There are fans in the cool outside, but how can you get two dorms that move air through that in? We don't have a fan to get the halls," Dedrick said. this staleness out," she said. He said he did not know whether 
Last spring, Pasquerilla East Presi­the Pasquerillas would be air­dent Carie Hand asked University of­conditioned or not. "I just can't see ficials and the Hall Presidents' that it will occur in the near future," Council to find a solution to the Dedrick said. problem. He said the larger fan system con­
She sent out six copies of her ap­sidered earlier would entail a great peal, one ofwhich was addressed to expense and air-conditioning would Dedrick. Dedrick told her the solu­be even more costly. tion would not arrive in the im­Hand said she does not think in­mediate future. terest in remedying the problem 
Dedrick and an architect from will die down. "The whole dorm has Minneapolis then went through feelings about this. Last weekend both dorms. The architect later some girls even considered going to wrote that the only way to alleviate a hotel to escape the heat. Two guys the problems in the Pasquerillas from Morrissey and Holy Cross were would be to use air-conditioning. here a few days ago complaining The two men concluded that a huge about the heat in their dorms, and fan system would not solve the they said they couldn't believe how problem because it only would hot it was in here," she said. replace hot inside air with hot "It's a desperate reaching out for outside air. air," said Binder. "I use to live in 
Hand said at an HPC meeting last Lewis, and it's worse here. I believe spring that the heat in the dorms was the ventilation in this dorm is worse a "health hazard." "Mr. Dedrick has than the others on campus." 
EVEN STRAIGHTtiS CAN'T HELP IF YOU FWNK TUITION. 
Today, the toughest thing about going to college is finding the money to pay for it. But Army ROTC can help-two ways! 
First, you can apply for an Army ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition, books, and supplies, and pays you up to $1,000 each school year it's in effect. 
But even ifyou're not a 
scholarship rPrlt'\.->n ROTC can still with financial assis~ tance-upto$1,000 a year for your last twoyears in the program. 
For more information, contact your Professor of Military Science. 
ARMYROI'C. 
BEALLlOU CAM BE. 

"Interested? Call Capt. Domingo at 239-6264" 


-----~-~-~---· -~--~-~--­
The Observer Thursday, September 12, 1985 -page 5 
1 
~ 
l 

WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TOPRICES EFFECTIVE THRU 
LIMIT QUANTITIES SUNDAY, SEPT 15,1985 
• 
2202 South Bend Ave,South Bend (Ironwood and St. Rd. 23) 

• 
424 W .McKinley Ave,Mishawaka 

• 
501 N.Hickory Road, South 

• 
1302 Elwood St., South Bend 


Plus 7 more Michiana Locations 
SUpER MARkETS 
Mon-Sat 8am-9pm, Sun 9-7pm Sunday 9-6pm in Elkhart 
Take advantage of 

SANDWICH SAVINGS 

Two Limit low prices along with FAST, 
Save up to 78 t Find quality groceries at low, 
11/2 lb. loaf 

Additional quantities 
Martin's 

COURTEOUS SERVICE at 
$1.49 each 
Regular on thick sliced Stock up now for the weekend! 
Martin's Super Markets.
SANDWICH 
BREAD 
$ 
F 
0 
R 

Save up to 50 t 

Save $1.00 
Bud ofCalifornia Extra Large 24 ct. 

• Squirt • Rc 100
HEAD 

• Diet Rite • 6 pack -16oz bottle
LE1TUCE 

RCCOLA 
$ 
AMERICAN ......sot :::; ggt
SINGLES••••••••••••• MIRACLE WHIP••••••• 





Martin's Wine SpecialFor your Convenience ••• 

Bartles & daymes Four Pack 
Wine Cooler 

Martin's Popular Delicatessen 

$2'' 

Your favorite deli meats and 
You must be 21 years of 

cheeses prepared 
age or older to purchase any alcoholic beverages. 

the way you like them. 

Try Martin's One Day FUm Processing for your 126, 
110, 35mm, and disc film. 

Also•••See our 
store display for 
information on 
Double Prints or 4" x 6" prints 

__________..,._____________ 


~i~~~_()__l_._ll__t_________________
Th_ur-sd-ay_,s_ep-tem-b-er-12_._19-85--p-ag-e-6 
Entire campus was unprepared for any disaster 
Yesterday I finally heard the fust ofthe two terrible sounds I have dreaded hearing since I came to the Midwest: the whine of the tor­nado sirens. The second of the sounds · the sub-bass rumbling of the tornado itself. We at Notre Dame were spared this time, as the tor­nados mercifully hopped over our section of the city. 

Steven Horst 
guest column 
But the comfort I take in this fact is mon: than of!Set by the realization that, hluJ a tor­nado struck Notre Dame, the damage done in terms of injury and loss of life would have been tragically and unnecessarily high. The sirens we heard are sounded when a tornado 
has already been sighted. If you  are  close  
enough  to  hear the sirens, you  are  close  
enough to take some sort ofcover.  


What happened at Notre Dame when the sirens were sounded? I was in O'Shaughnesey Hall at the time, and cannot say what hap· pened elsewhere .on campus, because I dis· cretely stayed indoors. I did see through an open doorway that·people were nonchalantly walking across campus as though nothing were out of the ordinary, as oblivious to the meaning of the sirens (you would think people would at least realize that some sort of emergency was at hand) as they were to the speed with which a tornado can strike from a clear blue sky. 
In the building, classes continued as usual in rooms with 5-foot plate glass windows that contained plenty of glass for everyone in the room in the event that they be shattered by the 200 mile-an-hour winds at the periphery of a tornado. At least one professor had the wisdom to take his class out of the classroom and into the hall, but his choice of the Great Hall in O'Shaughnessey, with an exposed roof, four open doors and enormous stained glass windows (admittedly stronger than plate glass, and certainly a much more classy way to be cut to ribbons) was perhaps a trifle mis· guided. 
The dean's office did not know what to do and evidently had not been prepared in what measures to take in the event of an emer­gency. When they called personnel, they were given the edifying advice that if they felt unsafe, they could go to the basement. 
Perhaps most alarming of all were the con· fusions of individuals. One person wondered whether she should drive home during the warning despite the fact that a tornado was currently being tracked in the very area she would be driving through. Personally, I live in one of the paste-board apartment complexes that you always see the remains of on the evening news after a tornado has struck, so I was quite glad to not be home at the time. Ot· hers, when the word 'tornado' was mentioned, said "Oh, is that what those sirens were? I wondered!" One person I talked to thought 
they must have been testing the sirens, despite the fact that they routinely do this on Thursdays, and do not do it four times in the space ofa half-hour. 
I cannot help but wonder what would have happened had catastrophe struck on campus · either in the form of a tornado or in the shape of some other disaster, like an attack from a foreign power. I find it most alarming that people seem unable to recognize the exis· tence ofdreadfully dangerous conditions. But it is if anything more disturbing that the school seems able to do so little to alert people to•the presence of an emergency or to educate them in the proper measures to take in such an event. Finally, I am quite confused by people's priorities: getting into a hallway or a basement while a tornado is a scant mile or two away may be bothersome, but it is cer· tainly far more important than finishing the day's lecture or getting to dinner early. I hope, as we all do, that disaster never strikes here; but if it does, I pray that everyone will be more ready than they were on Monday. 
Steven Horst is a graduate student in philosophy. 

Decision to go coed at Saint Mary's weighed 
Well girls· are we ready to let the guys in to stay? The idea of turning Saint Mary's into a coed college has been discussed for many years but the plans have never advanced past the talking stage. Maybe it is time to hear Saint Mary's girl's views on the subject. It is obvious that most of the girls would be ecstatic at the thought of having guys on campus. But after 

Erin O'Brien  
new to the news  
r r r  that initial excitement wears off, most girls would probably start thinking more seriously about the consequences of such a chan· geover. Let us now pretend that the plans have been made · the contract reading, "On the date of Jan. 1, 1986, the all-girls college, St. Mary's of Notre Dame, will become a coed college." Isn't this what we have all been waiting for? What problems couldpossibly oc­cur? Why don't we go over some of the positive and not so positive effects that would be likely to occur if Saint Mary's College went coed.  
Doonesbury  

First ofall, the favorable results, since those are the ones we think or initially. No more parietals! No more attempts to sneak past the parietal desk until you hear, "Hey, we need an 
I.D. from him before you can go up." Or worse yet, problems arise when parietals are over and your boyfriend and you, along with twenty other dumbfounded couples, are sit· ting in the lobby at 2:30 a.m. Undoubtedly, with the new policy there would be no more inspections, no more sneaking, no more parie· tal duty. Everyone must admit that parietals has always been a sort ofcurse at Saint Mary's, and no one would cry over its abolishment. 
Another plus is the fact that the reputation of an all-girls college would reverse itself. Contrary to popular belief, Saint Mary's girls are not going to college solely to obtain their 
M.R.S. degree (translation: o a marriage to a soon to be wealthy Notre Dame law student), and they certainly do not enjoy being referred to as SMC chicks. Perhaps if Saint Mary's became coed, the girls would finally earn the respect that they deserve. 
A final advantage of a coed campus is the simple fact that there would be guys · everywhere. No girl enjoys the feeling of being shuttled off to a party at Notre Dame 
7DfJAY ITWAS LEARNEP 7HifT PRESI/JfNT f?CIJ&W HAS AGI?E£() 70 MAKE A 8E1JERT~NGFOR 
"164 FOR 5l1JTII AFRICA." 
" 

ALSO, A RE5PiiCTFOR THe FI<£EIX)'A OF Pf;(JJ£E 7D LJVf­HOW7Het (}{()()5C1 /3IEiN IF THAT MeANS /JVIN6 AJ:Iqf<T. 
BEIN6 AR4t<TISN'T NEC&S­SARIL-YAN INJIJ5TIC&. 
/ 

that all too often ends up to be an open meat market. Guys stare, girls stare, guys use their best pick-up lines, girls actually fall for them; it's all so mechanical. Of course, this is not al· ways the case, but ifthe guys were residing on our turf, what a dating relief it would be. lm· agine having a boyfriend, ·or just a friend who is a boy, right down the hall instead of a shuttle's ride away. 
OK, so we have gone over how great coed dorms would be at Saint Mary's, however there is always a "but" in every favorable situa· tion. Being at an all-girl's college, Saint Mary's girls have enjoyed many freedoms that just would not conform to coed living. No more prancing around in a T-shirt and underwear when you go to the bathroom or get a pop from the lobby. No more waking up ten minutes before class and jumping into yester· day's pungent volleyball shorts and shirt wit· bout a second thought. What Saint Mary's girl cares about how carefully her make-up is applied when she sits in class everyday with 200 other girls? If the campus went coed, there would be a lot of changes such as the showers going on earlier, the curling irons plugging in, the make-up being applied meticulously and the dresses and skirts being dragged out of the backs ofclosets. 
Garry Trudeau 
ALL PRfXEBJS ~ WilL 607D 8UY CIJMPf!T'ERS FOR 
NEB7'f 5130JRITY Fa?C£5............ 
50 THAT's IA/HY YaJR& CALLI/116THe GROUP.. 
/ "APAI<T-AIIJ,'' RiGHT. 
/ 
But that is not the worst part of this coed stuff. Along with the invasion of the male sex comes the male competitiveness, dominance and ego. Where there is now friendly com· petition in both athletics and academics, the guys would soon turn this peaceful setting into a sweaty battleground. Also, the now unified, supportive clubs and organizations would be overtaken by the ever dominant male. Of course, it may not be that bad, but then again · why give it the chance? Are our freedoms worth sacrificing? 
Now that we have gone over the basic argu· ments for and against the issue ofSaint Mary's becoming coed, what is the final conclusion? To decide if the freedom of wearing only un­
• derwear in the hall outweighs the abolish· ment of parietals is a personal decision. But it is not the student body that has the final say in the matter · it goes over and beyond you. Thus, the discussions and ideas which focus on making Saint Mary's a coed college may be on the line for years, decades, possibly cen· turies. So what the heck· voice those opinions girls, let yourselves be heard. It's a woman's world . at least for the moment. 
Erin O'Brien ts a freshman at Saint Mary's College and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Because of a shipping error, Doonesbury arrived late this week. The entire week's strips will be run in sequence today and tomorrow. 
Quote of the day 
"Beauty is truth, truth beauty -that is all ye know on earth, and all ye need to know." 
john Keats (1795-1821) 
"Ode on a Grecian Urn" 

"ielYP.~O_i_n_t___________________________________________Th__u_rs_d_ay~,_s~ep~t-em__be_r_1_2~,-19_8_5_-~P-a~ge__7 

'Pete Roses' of baseball will remind us of legends 
I still can remember the first time I saw the couldn't pay me to recite this year's Reds altered, and sometimes it's hard to put old grow, but baseball will survive In the long run. Red~ play baseball. Dad and I, he with his beer roster, because I just don't know anymore. memories to rest. So maybe it's the fans who need to be more 
and I with my autographed George Brett To me, Sparky Anderson continues to tip his Some things haven't changed. The Reds still flexible. Someday soon I'll learn the names of glove, sat somewhere behind third base and cap in Cincinnati, and George Foster is catch­wear black cleats and Pete "4192" Rose slides the rookies and follow their statistics. Those munched on ballpark hotdogs -still the best ing would-be homeruns from deep on the head first into base. I still hate the Dodgers. heroes are getting pretty grey-haired anyway. 
around. It was a slice of heaven and we both warning track. Joe Morgan still is flapping his Although old soldiers and ballplayers do fade, But at least the hotdogs haven't changed. knew it.· arm like a chicken when he comes to bat. And there always will be the Pete Roses to remind I can see Dave Concepcion's golden glove usofthe baseball legends who still are around. 
Cindy Rauckhorst making those double plays. Nevertheless, some change is inevitable Cindy Rauckborst Is a junior economics Old soldiers never die, they just fade away, and probably necessary. One cannot live in major at Notre Dame and a regular View­someone famous once noted. Maybe the same the past, no matter how good we imagined it point columnist. Sbe is formerly from a sub­
who's on first can be said for old ballplayers. It's easy for to be. Strikes will happen and salaries will urb ofCincinnati. them to fade though, because of the complex 
In those days, my dad and I were in­game baseball has become -both on and off separable baseball buddies. I was as avid a the field. baseball fan as any boy my age, and more than Today the game seems to be shrouded by an adequate substitute for the son my father other matters, such as economics and politics. 

TMEVCALL MIN\ 
never had. So while my mom and sisters dis­Salaries and strikes are more important than cussed new outfits for the Barbie doll, Dad and runs and hits. Owners and managers seem to I talked RBI~ and ERAs. have more control than players and coaches. 
·Together we watched our favorites -Drug testing and cocaine controversy have Johnny Bench and Joe Morgan, Ken Griffey, replaced the simple fun baseball used to be. In Pete Rose and Tony Perez -as they fielded, today's materialistic society, players are homered and stole their way into our hearts. heroes because their homeruns make them Win or lose, the Cincinnati Reds were always rich. 
the best to us. What do the old ballplayers do In the midst 
These players were like epic heroes, of the turmoil? They continue to play, hoping possessing all of the important qualities ofthe the new problems will go away. ~ although culture: strength, agility, intelligence, good their performances might be hidden behind 

,
,
looks and charm. They were all-American the strike headlines, their images remain fresh 
,

gods whom I imagined went home to eat in the minds of fans who know how it was 
,

apple pie and drive their Chevys. before. 
Although it seems strange, even today when Tradition is important -as anyone on the 
1 

I think of the Reds I envision that 1975-76 Notre Dame campus can attest. It Is difficult to championship team. The new names and faces watch things change right In front ofour eyes. don't seem to fill the old uniforms as well. You Baseball as I want to remember It has been 

After eight decades, US must oppose apartheid 
In recent months, white repression ofblack ling for negotiations between the regime and trushed by the superior firepower ofwhites, a beginnings ofthe underground struggle. After protest In South Africa has dominated our legitimate black leaders. new strain of leadership emerged from the two years ofsabotage aimed at state property, television screens. Policemen wielding whips The immediate cause ofthe current wave of country's mission schools. Under a colonial he was finally tracked down and In 1964 sen­and pistols have teargassed and rounded up unrest was the imposition, last year, of a new dispensation, this new black middle class was tenced to life imprisonment for treason thousands of t(:<:nagers. The military in their constitution. This maintained the essential entitled to participate In the parliamentary against apartheid. Twenty years later he has armored cars have used excessive firepower; principles of apartheid and established an ex­system of the Cape. By the 1880s, 12,000 become the very personification ofresistance almost 700 protesters have died. President ecutive presidancy with near dictatorial Africans had qualified for the vote and, by while his outlawed ANC has survived, both In 8otha has declared a state of emergency and powers. It offered the Coloureds and Indians 1900, 16 percent ofthe voters' roll was black. exile and underground, to become the cutting there ha.~ been a run on the South African cur­separate ethnic parliaments and entrenched This system was ended after the Boer War, edge ofan escalating guerilla war. rency, the Rand. overall white control. Africans were com­when Britain unified the region and es­As apartheid tightened its grip on blacks, a 
pletely excluded. tablished a color-bar constitution with an all­renewed groundswell of popular protest · This arrogant assertion ofwhite power trig­white parliament in an effort to accomodate developed in the 1970s. Led by a young medi­
Peter Walshe 
gered spontaneous protests and the formation the defeated Afrikaners. No sooner had that cal student, Steve Biko, it pursued a non­of the United Democratic Front. Tutu and parliament met In 191 0 than it started to pass violent course and came to be called the black Boesak were among the Front's patrons and it a series ofsegregatlonary statutes. consciousness movement. By 1976 thousands
guest column 

quickly became the main vehicle of popular of young blacks were demonstrating against opposition to apartheid. One result is the very apartheid and their segregated, Inferior 
Blacks, denied any normal outlet for their few ofthe Front's patrons have escaped deten­Outraged by these developments, Africans education. When the police and army moved political protests, their leaders detained and tion. Boesak himself was arrested last week as forme~ the African National Congress (ANC) in, over 700 students were killed. Another their meetings banned, have turned the he prepared to lead a march on Pollsmoor In 1912. lts.purpose was to oppose segrega­generation of black leadership was detained mourning and burying of their dead Into Prison where Nelson Mandela is being held. tion and to work for a non-racial system of and Blko was murdered In prlson.on Sept. 12, liturgies of defiance and hope. Well known government. Father John Dube of the Con­1977. figures like Bishop Desmond Tutu and Father Mandela has become the symbol ofa black gregational American Board Mission, an Since the mid-70s, yet another generation Allan Boesak have been at the gravesldes: struggle in South Africa that goes back a long African schooled in U.S. black colleges, was of black leadership has called on white South legitimizing black outrage, attempting to limit way. By the second half of the 19th century, the ANC's first president. Africa to reverse Its policies. Once more the the: escalating violence on both sides and cal-after resistance of tribal leaders had been Decade after decade the ANC produced result has repression and state violence. It Is In 
black leaders of calibre, men like Dr. A.B. this context, namely eight decades of patient Xuma and Albert Lithuli. Xuma, ANC presi­and increasingly desperate resistance, that dent during the 1940s, married a black black South Africans are calling on the United American, Madie Hall, and .received his medi­States to support their stand against apartheid. cal training at Northwestern University and As a result Congress, belatedly, Is moving the University of Edinburgh; Luthuli led towards sanctions and Notre Dame, after drag­Congress during its passive resistance cam­ging Its feet, Is having to reassess Its Invest­paigns of the 1950s and was the first South ment pollees. African to receive the Nobel Peace Prize 
o" (1962). Tonight, Sept. 12, the campus has a chance 
After almost a century the peaceful but inef­to commemorate the eighth anniversary of fective protest, the ANC was banned by the Blko's death, at 8 p.m. In the Center for Social apartheid regime in 1960. This forced It to go Concerns. There will be a tape of Blko's last underground and, reluctantly, to adopt the interview before he was detained and the film use of countervailing force. Since that time, a "Woza Albert/Woza Steve!" (Rise up Albert continuing stream of able, humane black Luthuii/Rise up Steve Biko!) will be shown. leaders have taken up the struggle, only to be Imprisoned or driven into exile -trashed by Peter Walsbe is a professor ofgovernment the South African state. The young Mandela and international studies and director of took over from Lithuli and organized the. ' African studies atNotre Dame. 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer 1s the independent newspaper published by the students of the Un~versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the adm1n~stration of etther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr News Editor ..... .............................. Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief ..............................................Frank Lipo 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ...................... David Stephenllch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager ... .. . . . ............... Jim H-oan Systems Manager . . . . . . . . Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell 
Founded November3, 1966 


Accent 

Leary 'Questions authority' 
Frank Mastro 
features writer 
T
FYQA. "Think for yourselfand ques­tion authority," said Dr. Timothy Leary when questioned about the topic of tonight's lecture. 
"That doesn't mean to protest. It means ask authority 'What's hap­pening?' " said the 64-year-old Leary. 
"My mission is to encourage and empower individuals in the Notre Dame community to TFYQA." said Leary. 
Recall, that this is the same man who taught a graduate course at Harvard called, "Creating Your Own Reality" with the optional text of LSD. 

r ~ 
"The best way to think for your­selfis to do things to activate your

r 
mind to improve your thought

r 
,. processes," said Leary "Drugs change your mind," said
r 
Leary, "I'm not telling Notre Dame students to use drugs. They have to make up their own mind. Anything that helps individuals improve their thought processes. 
On Nov. 1, Electronic Gadgets will release his first computer program, 'Mind Adventure.' It is the culmination ofwork begun in 1950 when he was working on his Ph.D. at the University ofCalifornia at Berkeley. 
Based on the concept ofinter­active psychometrics, the program is concerned with magnifying one's thoughts. Through various means, it enables one to obtain a profile ofhis or her own mind, called a Mind Map. 
Leary is better known, however, as a leading figure during the decade we refer to as 'The 60s.' 
"The greatest explosion ofin­dividual self-confidence occurred in the 60s. We changed the world in the direction ofindividual pride and self-confidence," said Leary. 
"The Baby Boom phenomenon took place in 1946 and they totally dominated society," said Leary, "They hit high school and college age and said 'Treat me as an in­dividual.'" 
Leary is also well known among political circles. He ran unsuccess­fully against Ronald Reagan in a bid to become governor ofCalifornia in 1969. 
SRT. Scum rises to the top. That's the power of beauracracy. 
An interesting sidelight to that story is that his campaign slogan was 'Come Together. Join the Par~ which prompted a friend ofLeary's, by the name ofJohn Lennon, to write the campaign song. The song was entitled "Come Together," which later became one of the Beatles big hits. 
When asked ofhis present politi­cal views, Leary responded with another acronym. 
"SRT. Scum rises to the top. That's the power ofbeauracracy," said Leary. 

"There were 1 0 million Democrats better thanJimmy Carter. There are 20 million Republicans better than Reagan and Ford. Any 10 plumbers could have figured out the Cold War," said Leary. 
Leary has spoken at Notre Dame twice before, the last time being in 
1978. He also reflected on his ex­periences from his 1968 visit. 
Whenever Leary spoke back then, he always had to debate an official government person. In 1968, he and Sidney Cohen squared offat Notre Dame. 
The students asked Leary why he was here and he responded, "To question authority." Next they asked Cohen his reason for being on stage. He replied, "I came for the money." The students cheered Cohen. 
"Notre Dame was into the 80s in 
the 60s," said Leary. 
"I'm a humanist. The hope ofthe human race lies in the United States ofAmerica," said Leary, "The genius ofAmerica is that we have the power to think for ourselves. There will be an explosion ofintelligence in the future. Everything in my power is done to encourage TFYQA." 
Those students who were unable to obtain tickets, which were given out in a scant hour, will have a chance to hear Leary when he speaks at the patio on the Fieldhouse Mall from 12:1 0 until 
12:25 this afternoon. 
His lecture at Washington Hall commences at 8p.m. and is bound to be filled with further acronyms and witty comments. 
When he does and she doesn't Child-free marriages on the increase 
Associated Press 
"To be or not to be" child-free is a decision that can divide otherwise loving couples -and often it is the woman who does not want children and the man who does. 
The 1983 Census revealed that up to 40 percent of married women in their early 20s chose to remain childless, according to an article in the September issue ofCos­mopolitan, while I 0 percent of women in their late 30s made the same choice. 
They are backed in their decision by recent studies ofchildless women that show the same degree ofhappiness, maturity and satisfac­tion attained by parents can be had by those who do not have children. 
Acounselor at the American Institute ofFamily Relations said that households in which the man wants a child and the woman does not are not uncommon. 
Most couples reach a decision about parenting before marriage, but some marry assumimg they agree on children, only to learn later that they do not. Child care therapist Merle Bombardier! said others drift into nondecision, which sometimes ends with an "accidental" pregnancy. 
Reaching a decision is difficult, and as child-free broadcaster and author Betty Rollin has said: 
"Look, I feel I missed something, which I'm occasionally wistful about. But that doesn't mean I'm sorry or that I wouldn't make the same decision again. I think people who do have children miss someth­ingtoo." 
Los Angeles psychologist Diane Elvenstar Medved advises couples to place the highest priority on their relationship when trying to reach a decision on parenthood on needs and goals, rather than feelings ofobligation. 
"If thinking about having a baby makes you depressed, you know you're not ready to have one," she said. "On the other hand, if imagin­ing sterility causes swings ofhappi­ness and depression, parenthood is more important than you realize." 
Couples struggling with this problem often experience feelings ofhelplessness, frustration and anger, as well as tension and anxiety. Talking openly and honestly will help. Writer LeeAn Lowe, the mother oftwo children who wanted her current relation­ship to be childfree, offered these suggestions for keeping discussion direct and forthright: 
•Listen 
to your partner without anger, and express in words your understanding ofhis position. 

•Don't 
assume you can read his mind or that he can read yours. Ask 



questions about his feelings and explain your own. 
•Concentrate 
on feelings and avoid accusations and hostile out­bursts. 

•Recognize 
that you are partners and there is no right or wrong in this situation. 


Psychotherapiest Bombardier! said women who have had children by a first marriage and want a child­free second marriage may be in a special category. She said they may be affected by the unpleasantness of the first qtarriage, and she recom­mended they consider how paren­thood would be different with a second husband 
In her own case, author Lowe said in Cosmopolitan that she and her partner have decided to postpone a decision on children and she added, "Meanwhile, I feel confident our eventual decision will be made by not default but by choice-and together." 
EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY Z HOURS EVEp DAY 
United Limo 
~IIIJUI


,.__ 

lllfli, 
~..,IUJUUIIIHII 
10844 McK•nley Hwy Osceola
674..6993 .,, 

, ~~.,~~ ~:::~ 1111oom 
I ' ,Jllllllllllllllllr.l
~c~~u~ ~~~! 1::11111111 IWIIIIIIIIlllllillll ~ ~ hi•IIIIWllllll II 

Timothy Leary lectures at 8 tonight in Washington Hall. 
S.M.U.SchoolofLaw DaUas, Texas 

Professor Regis W. Campfield, BBA, Notre Dame; LL.B., University of Virginia; Chairman of the Notre Dame Estate Planning Institute, will be on campus 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17 
from 1 to 9 p.m. in Room 208 of O'Shaughnessy Hall to talk with students about admission and financial assis­tance. All interested students are welcome to meet with Professor Campfield during this time. 
THE 





• 
•
• 
Trip on Saturday, Sept. 14 Leave 8:45 a.m. Library Circ:le Sign-upI Pay Student Activities 1stFloor Lafortune 


('C/Xl SCOPE 
US OUT 

FOR ALL YOUR EYE CARE NEEDS­
COMPLETE EXAMS 

contacts, glasses NO/SMC students, F acuity and Staff Show Your I.D. and Receive 20 ·;.OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
Excluding Specials 

ProfessionalVtsion 
ASSOCIATES 
183511. 1n1111111011 1341 ,..... 2n-1111 234-2400 South of U.S.23 M&mo~ng 



Refreshing SUDlDler flick war01s hearts this fall 
performers. It is the latter whoMary EDen Harrington carry the film. And a wonderful 111m it is. As the
Movie review 

story progresses both the Antareans 

and the humans make discoveries 
Cocoon 

about themselves and each other. As Brimlt:y and Dennehy, the 
***
Playing at the University Park Cinema 

leaders of the two groups. match wits to help their respective people, 
Movtn are rat.d on 11 four-etar acale, four being the belt 

they develope a respect and 

J 
friendship for each other. After an unwittingly human-caused accident ust as ht: did last summt:r with tht: of youth" left hy the Antareans in a drains the life-saving power from hit comt:dy "Splash." director ncighhoring swimming pool, ont: the pool, endangering the cocoons Ron lloward had another delightful can litt:rally ~t:c their years drop· the Antareans have come to rescue tllm this summer in "Cm:oon." For ping. 'Iltey and their wives turn the and leaving the retirees per· those of you who missed it, it is still town ofSt. l't·tt·rshurg on its car: manently without its benefits, the playing at tht· l'nivt·rsity Park Mall dancing, howling and doing all two groups join forces and reach a cinemas. 'llte swry ofa south manner of things "unhefitting" to decision saving both the Antareans Florida retirt:mt:nt community's people of their age. and the humans. "dose eiKIJUIIter" With a rt'SCUe '!be film also shows a tragic side team from a di~tant planet wa..., ont: to old age. While their friends arc It is ultimately a story oflove. of the summer's higgest movies. enjoying a second youth. Gilford Love between husband and wife, a And for good n·asons. watches his wife decline and finally young couple, people ofdifferent 
The ,ca..•a is led hy veteran actors die. unwilling to accept the cultures and grandparents and their Don Amechc. Willi1rd Brimh:y. "miracle <:ure" of the pool. The grandson. It is this latter relation­llume Cronin. ,lack <iilti1rd. miracle too has its drawbacks. 'lbe ship which causes the film's .\1aurt•t•n Stapelton.Jessica Tandy. renewed vigor of the few residents dramatic conclusion. Let us suffice (iwen \'t·rdon and llcrta Ware a.,., of the village causes jealousy and it to say that everything works out the retirees. Brian Dennt·hy and disention, untilllnally the secret in the end. Tahnet· Welt:h play tht: Antart:ans: leaks and causes horrible repercus­Overall, the story is at once and Ste\T (iuttt·nhn·g portrays tht: sions for the Antareans. refreshing, touching and humorous, boat ownt:r tht·y hirt: to carry out The older actors' performances and the performances, especially their mission. overshadow those of the younger those of the older actors, are of the 
Btimky. AmtThe and Cronin as cast members, especially Welch and highest calibre. It is a film that is 
.' .

Ben. Art and .Jot•. tht· three most Guttenberg. Whik these two do a sure to plea..o;e people of all ages. advt:nturt:sornt· mt:mht·r~ of tht: fine job portraying a couple iri love. including our own. and best of all is community. do a marvelous joh. they haven't the experience and a great way to forget the September When they discowr tht• "lilUntain screen savvy of the veteran heat. 


Above: Gwen Verdon and Don Ameche, Wilford Brimley and Maureen 
Stapleton, Jessica Tandy and Hume Cronyn, and Herta Ware and Jack 
Gwen Verdon share the bill In this summer's blockbuster "Cocoon," directed by Ron Howard. Left:Ron Howard jokes with Steve Guttenberg, one ofthe youngsters In the cast of"Cocoon." 

'Who done it?' lacks originality, spark 
positions. Let your imagination run wild for a the movie's downfall. However, aside from moment. I'll wait. it's obvious problems, the movie does furnish

Maureen Farley 

EnterJudith, our heroine, played by Susan some relatively good acting in the form of 
Movie review Sarandon. It becomes her burning desire to Judith Sing, who plays Nancy, Sarandon's best track down Fleckstein's killer. We await her friend, and Raul Julian, playing Suarez, the first move with bated breath . And this, is chief inspector. Their interplay with Saran­

Compromising Positions 

where our story starts to sound its death don shines like a diamond amidst the 
*** 

Playing at Town and Country Theatre knell. Instead of exploding into a maze of wreckage of the script. mystery and intrigue as Judith tracks down The victim ofthis movie isn't the mur­
Movtn are rated on a four..tar acale, four being the bat the villain, the plot becomes dated; trite. dered Aeckstein. It is Judith, the freelance Sarandon's character seems to be caught in a investigator. web ofshallow, one-dimensional relation­The victims of "Compromising Positions"
"compromising Positions," at first hears whispers over the back fence, low ships. The scenes whic!'t should have inspired Sunday night were the eight people in the glance, seems to be a delightful voices on the patio and the word spreads. terror, humor, compassion, or even love, Town and Country Theatre 2. Seven ofus 
mixture ofcomedy and mystery. Presented Our friend Bruce was involved with pornog· merely inspires apatlly. were hoping in vain that a fly would land on with such a title, how could one hope to be raphy trafficking via the mob. (Gasp). The problem wasn't the movie's concept, the projector lens in order to give us someth­bored? Read on. which I found delightful. It was the manner ing at which to look. The eighth snoozed 
The plot revolves around the mysterious Granted, even this tidbit ofinformation in which the cqncept was presented that gently In the corner. Now there's an idea! If murder of an upright, upstanding oral sur­would be ofpassing Interest to us except for made me want to get up and leave. your roommate is up late keeping you from geon, Bruce Aeckstein. A PiJiar-of-the· one minor detail. Pictures start turning up. "Compromising Positions" couldn't seem your sleep, try "Compromising PosltJons". It community type. Get the picture? However, Pictures ofwomen. Married women. Au to offer any shred oforiginality or flair to the can't hurt. And there'll be plenty ofempty soon after his death, rumors start flying. One -natural. In (what else?)compromising age-old question: "Wbo done it?" And this Is seats. 


Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame soccer team won its first game this season when the Irish beat DePaul, 3·1, yesterday in Chicago. Details will appear in tomorrow's paper. · Tbe Observer 
The Notre Dame-Michigan football game will be broadcast live on WVFI (AM 64) on Saturday, beginning at noon. Pete Pranica and Joe Malvezzi will provide the play-by-play, and Brent Musburger ofCBS will be featured at halftime. · Tbe Observer 
The ND Water Polo Club will play Michigan on 
Friday at 6:30p.m. in the Michigan I.M. Pool in the center ofthe Ann 
Arbor campus. -Tbe Observer 
The ND Tae Kwon Do Club will hold a class tonlptat 7 p.m. in the fencing gym in the ACC (Gate 4 ). This is the last opportunity for new members to join the club by bringing S45 to the class. For more information, call Kerry at 288-5440. -Tbe Observer 
The ND /SMC Women's GolfClub will play 
at the Ferris State Invitational in Big Rapids, Mich., this weekend.. 
The Observer 
The ND Squash Club will play the Michigan Squash Club on Saturday in the CCRB Building following the football game. Anyone who is interested may stop by. For more information, call William Mapother at 283-3451.-Tbe Observer 
lnterhallofficials are neededfor football and 
soccer. For more information, contact the NVA office in the ACC. · 
The Observer 

Thursday, September 12, 1985-page 10 
Novice Boxing Tournament workouts will 
begin Monday at 4 p.m. in the boxing room in the ACC. Anyone who wishes to learn basic boxing skills, prepare for the Bengal Bouts or just get into top condition is invited to attend. Upperclassmen with experience are invited to workout, although they will be excluded from the novice tourname~t. -Tbe Observer 
Professional Wrestling returns to South Bend, as Indiana Championship Pro Wrestling will be at Century Center Friday at 8:30 p.m. A five-bout card is featured. Tickets are on sale at the Century Center Box Office for S5 each. -Tbe Observer 
Interhall cross-country team entries must be submitted by Wednesday to the NVA office. For more information, call 2 39-61 00. -Tbe Observer 
A kayak course is being offered by NVA on Thursdays, beginning Sept. 19. Anyone who is interested should register in ad­vance at the NVA office in the ACC. -Tbe Observer 
An ultimate frisbee tournament is being 
sponsored by NVA. The deadline for submitting 1 0-player rosters is Monday, Sept. 24, iil the NVA office. For more information, call239· 61 00. -The Observer 
A karate course is being offered by NVA on Mondays and Wednesdays beginning Sept. 23. Anyone who is interested should contact the NVA office for more information. -The Observer 
Bengals will stay with new alignment 
A88oclated Press 
CINCINNATI · Cincinnati Bengals Coach Sam Wyche says his team will probably use what he calls a "flip formation" at Sunday's game in St. Louis. 
The Bengals used the formation in last Sunday's 28-24loss to the Seattle Seahawks. Though the Bengals didn't win the game, the formation did work with the Seakhawks a few times, Wyche said. 
Wyche put wide receivers Cris Collinsworth and Eddie Brown on the same side of the field. Seattle continued using five defensive backs and doubling coverage on Brown and Collinsworth. 
And toward the end of the game, the Seahawks reacted the "right way," Wyche said. 
"They overshifted .. and took a guess on which way. They stopped us one play on that last drive. We ended up making a first down after that, but their adjustment didn't come until the fourth quarter," Wyche said. 

The Obsen•er Notre Oamt· olfk<". loc·atnl on tht" third floor of l.a~orrum· Student Centt"r. accepts classified advt"rtbin!( from') a.m. until~ p.m.. :\londay through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary's oftkt". loc·att·d on tht· third floor of Haggar Colkg<" Center, accepts dassifit·ds from 1.2:.~0 p.m. until -~ p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for nt"xt-day da"ifit·ds is .~ p.m. All dassilkds must be prepaid, dthn in p<"rson or h\· mail.< :har!(t" is I 0 Ct"nts per five charac­



Classifieds 

ters l"f da ·. 
NOTICES 
SlD-$360 Weekly/Up MaiUng Circulars! 
No bolaea/quotaa! Sincerely interested
"*'aelf·addr.aed envelope: Dept. AM­
7CEG, PO Box 830, Woodstock, IL 
60096. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHIUa 234-8187 
Volun-Poaitiona available for Com­munication and Theatre pr«nJctlona in: publicity, promotion, program deaign, sound, and lighting. For Information call Tom Barkes at 239-5856. 
anyone interested in a San Francisco Club pleeee cal Karen 3435 or Jenny 2884. 
LOSTiFOUND I 
RBWAR~REWARD-REWARO­
LOST AMETHYST and GOLD BEADED BRACELET. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO MEII IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL GRETCHEN, AT3298. 
LOST; black tapa cue with colection ol caaattes and a radio adaptor . Hfound, call Kathy 81283-3690. 
FOUND: BASKETBALL OUTSIDE OF STEPAN COURTS LAST WEEK. CALL 1651 TO IDENTiFY. 
LOST:BROWN WALLET AT "KARATE KID.' I DESPERATELY NEED MY LICENSEII! I DON'T CARE ABOUT THE MONEY OR THE OTHER 10. CALL MAR· TIN MCNULTY AT 3274. NO QUEs­TIONS. 
STOLEN: Umbrela from South Dining Hal be-11:23 and 12:08 on Monday the 9th. It is eaily ldenlifiable,and HI see you on campua with ~ •... you don't want to know the real. Retum it to the Ad Build­ing Loat and Found, or Holy en. Hal. Save youraalf physical and mental pain. 
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. VERY IMPORTANT. PLEASE CON· TACT ALICE AT 232-60681F FOUND. 
LOST: Gold/ailvarlmitation Rolex watch, 
toat Sat. nighl(tha 7th) at either Campus vi-•. St.Louis St., or D-6. It -a very apeclal gift, PLEASE HELP ME OUTI ~ollarad, pleua caU Jim at 3648 (416 Morrlaaey). THANKS!II 
LOST: RED SOCIAL WORK IIOClK NBW IF FOUND CALL 284-4431 
LOST 
ONE (1) L.L.BEAN BACKPACK BOOK· 
BAG TYPE THING IF YOU WERE LOOKING (OR EVEN IF YOU WEREN'T) YOU MIGHT HAVE FOUNO IT IN HURLEY OR THE A.C.C. (MAYBE EVEN CUSHING). I'D AP· PRECIATE IT IF YOU'D LET ME KNOW IF YOU FOUND IT. THANX! CALL JOE AT 2084. BY THE WAY ITS BLUE AND HAD AN ECON IIOClK AND SOME OT· HER STUFF IN IT. 
Loet: Gold Seiko watch, toat Friday after· noon at Greenfield, if found pleue cal Mike at 11n. REWARD OFFERED. 
LOST: BENNETTON RUGBY SHIRT, Blue and White. Laundry tag with no. 101 n and two small staina on front. If found plaue call Rick at 272-8568. 
FOUND FOUND FOUND: A pair of cool shades under tree in front ol Holy Cross on Sunday. Cell to identify: 232·5570. 
LOST: GOLD RING WITH DIAMONDS, SAPPHIRES, AND AN OPAL! IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT MAUREEN, AT 284· 4326. REWARD OFFERED!!II! 
REWARDIIIII LOST TIGER'S EYE and GOLD BEADED BRACELET! OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO ME!III IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL STEPHANIE AT 1327.. THANKS!! 
LOST Gold Selko Quartz Watch. Maybe around or in Neiuland Science Hal. Value moatfy aantimentai.PLEASE call Tom at 3810. (622Grace) 
FOUND: ONE RAMBO POSTER SOME­WHERE IN CAMPUS VIEW. WILL RETURN FOR MONETARY GRATIFICATION. CALL 284-4391 TO IDENTIFY 
FOR RENT 
Nice furnished house good neighb«hood approx. 1 mile north of NO 2n-3604/683­8888. 
ROOMMATE WANTED. IRISH HIUS APT. FURNISHED, CALL 291-8885, JIM 
OFFICE SPACE (IDEAL FOR ATIOR· NEY)740 SQ.FT.-OFF-STREET PARKING-BUSY DOWNTOWN LOCATION-307 HIU STREET· CALL:233-0187 FOR MORE INFO. 
LARGE 5 ROOM APARTMENT-1/HALF BATHS,2 BEDROOMS,307 HIU STREET·$400. INCLUDES UTiLITIES. CALL 233-0187 
atudent efficiency $125.and utiHties near N.D. 2556505; 2584843 
Furnished House Close to Campus • 6 bdrm, 2 baths CaH 2n-3461 
INEXPENSIVE-FURNISHED Graduate studenta need two quiet roommates to fil house. Walking distance to N.D. Have your own bathroom ... $93. 75 per mo. plus equal ahara of utilities. Call 289-2679 or 287-7178. 
EXCELLENT LOCAT10N· Fumiahed­comerofHIIIcreat/Angeta. Onebdrm. apt. Exceptionally dean. $185.00 per mo. AH util fum. ex. electricity. CaN 287·7178. 
FOR SALE 
wanted 2 gas to any home games caU 272-3481 
NEED TIX FOR MICH STATE(3) BOB 1751 
Prof. SMka co-ed to babysit toddler one nile a week. 233-1873 after 6 p.m. 

NAUGLES n-delivery people tor N.D. & S.M.C. Car required. Apply in penon. 
Ride needed to IU BLOOMINGTON FRI 8/13. Call Unda 4135. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE TO SHARE FUUY FURNISHED LUXURY APT. AT WIUIAMSBURG ON THE LAKE. QUIET COMPLEX CLOSE TO CAMPUS. NON­SMOKERS ONLY, CAU 256-5295 FOR MORE INFO. 
Part-time HELP 1 or 2 hra. wknda. AM or PM. Nice family with physically diaabled boy. Own trana. 259-0622 or 255-5621. 
NEED RIDE TO ANN ARBOR! FRI NIGHT OR SAT MORN WIU SHARE EXPENSES PLEASE CALL PAUL X4107 
NEEDED; A RIDE TO CHICAGO FOR 2 OR 3 PEOPLE FRIDAY 9-13. WIU PAY GAS MONEY! CALL ANNE 4083 OR TERESA4085 
WANTED 
TYPEWRITER: amaH portable electronic. Call5435 daya;256-1312 eve. 
Saara AIR-CONDITIONER, sliding­window type, 6500 BTU, good condition $80.00 or beat offer. 2n-6565, 7 a.m. to 10:30p.m. 
TICKETS 
DON'T SELL YOUR MICHIGAN STATE TIX TO SOMEONE ELSE SEU THEM TO ME! I'M DESPERATE. CALL BOB AT 1248. THANX. 
I need 2 and/or 4 GA'a for Michigan State aa soon aa possible. Cell Mike at 1806 
Need 4 GA'S FOR ARMY GAME!I PLEASE CALL 272-4540 
NEED MICH ST STUD TIX. CALL JIM 1488 
HELP! Need 2 MSU GAs. Win trade MISS or LSU, or pay $$$. ED 1857 
NEED 1 MICHIGAN ST TIX Ill Stu or GA. call1562 
···········~················· 

................................... 
UNCLE SAM WANTS YOUIII To Give Up Some Army G.A.'a Be A:l You Can Be And Cell Sammy at 20n or 2078 (We offer cash, experience, and travel op­portunities.) 
I NEED TWO GA'S TO THE MSU GAME.CAU 2752 AFTER 5:00PM 
I DESPERATELY NEED MANY MSU TICKETS CALL MIKE 1476 
HELP I need 1,2, or 3 GA lor Michigan Sr. Celt Mike 1454. 
PLEASE, I'M DESPERATE! IT'S MY BIRTHDAY ON THE 21st • SEU ME 6 MICH. ST. G.A.'S AND YOU'U BE INVITED TO THE PARTY!! PLEASE CALL ANNE 284-5048 
I need Michigan State GA'sll you can help call Stan at2341 
HELP·NEED 3 G.A.'S FOR ARMY GAME $$CALL CHRIS 1135 
WHAT DO YOU WANT FOR YOUR 
11.8.U. TlCKET? I'll WIWNG TO MEET ANY OFFER. I NEED 3 T1CKETS­8TUD/G.A. CALL STEVE 3318-LET ME TRY TO GET YOU WHAT YOU WANT IN EXCHANGE. 
NEED TICKETS TO NO VS USC GAME CALL 2n 4324 EVENINGS BETWEEN 6:00& 11:00 
JeraeYite wiN trade 2 MSU and 2 MICH tix for 2 usc·G.A. tix. Call Jell after 7 p.m. at 201·356-6534 
HAVE USC TIX TO TRADE FOR MSU TIX. PH (502) 443-4754 
Big$$$ for 2 MSU GA's. Cell Rich at 283­3202 
Need 2 Mich St tix X 11n Larry 
............................................l................... 
I NEED TIXS FOR MICH & ALL HOME GAMES.272·6306 
I have Mich. and Mich. St. til. Beet offer. Eric 1527. 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR MICH. STATE. CALL 284-4408. 
NEED 4 MSU GA'S, 1 STUDENT. CALL BIUAT234·7421. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING TICKETS! I need 4 or 5 G.A.'a and 1 student ticket for Mich. State. Pleue help mel CALL RON 3556 OR 239-n57 
NEED 2 MSU GA'S-WIU TRADE 2 MICHIGAN GA'S OR BUY: CALL DAN 2311-7666 
2 STU. FTBL TIC BOOKLETS. BEST OF· FER. CRAIG 3380 OR BETH 284·5200. 
I HAVE 2 BOX SEATS FOR CUBS VS. CARDS ON FRI. SEPT 13 AND 2 SEATS ON SAT. INTERESTED? CALL 1270 
NEED 2 IISU·ND GA'8. CALL KEN AT 21111-3423 AND MAKE MY DAY. 
HELP! NEED MICH. ST. TICKETS BAD; CALL JOHN 1601 
WANTED: 7 MSU GA'S 10 yuppies lrom Chicago can prance around In their green pants and drink imported beers on Green Field. Pleaaa call Ken at 272-8784 after 11pm. 
NEED MSU STUDENT OR GA TIX WIU TRADE ARMY OR USC TIX OR PAY$$. CALL GERRY 234·7421 
Sell George 2 MICH. ST. GA's and Timothy Leary will show you the way to reality. Money no problem. 289-4335. 
I HAVE 2 MICH. TICKETS BUT NO RIDE FOR SATURDAY'S GAME!CAU DONNA AT 2240 FOR A TRADE! 
HELPI!I Need I MSU Stu Ticket $$ Cell Daveat3526 
I need 5 Mich St GAs. Call Rob at x1245. 
PLEASE HELP!!! I NEED 4 MSU G.A.'s 283-1840 
Oaaperately seeking 2 GA's for the ARMY game (Oct.18). WINing to pay big bucka. Call Trine 4231 
DESPERATELY NEED 1 MICHIGAN STATE TICKET. MICHEUE 284-4288. 
NEED 3 USC OR 4 MISS. GA'S FOR CUTE IRISH PRIESTS WIU PAY ANY PRICE! CALL MARY 284·5442 
r-PERSONALS ,1 
Remember where you came from, 
where you're going, and why you created 
the mesa you got yourself into in the lirat 
place. 
You're going to die a horrible death, 
remember. It's all good training, and you'll 
enjoy it more il you keep thelacta in mind. 
• Richard Bech,/Uusions 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.. I BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Wordprocesaing Call Dolores 2n-6045 
isn't it sad when three roommarea gang up on the fourth? What wil you do when the "excuses" run out? 
some concerned dining haft obaefvers 
WANTED: PARTY ANIMAL WHO CAN WRITE. The Observer Accent MC!ion n-a 21-yaar-old to reaearch and write ita naw ~y column, the Bar Beat. For inlormation contact Mary Healy at The Observer, 239-5313. 
The entire city of Piqua, Ohio is coming oulto see NO play Michigan State. They are willing to trede in their whole collec­tion of Slim Whilman albums to buy tick· ela. Pleaae hlllp lhem. It's not ofltm thae people getout of Ohio. 
Cell Amy at 239-5303 or 272-9518. 
HI MURPHSKY HOW'S TRICKS 
BED & BREAKFAST, FootbaH weekends lor NO parenta. Two (2) night minimum. 10 mins. from campus. 272-5640. 
VARSITY FIELD HOCKEY VARSITY Fl ELD HOCKEY VS. Ball State The moat DANGEROUS game at NO!! Bting your BUUETPROOF VEST!!! Friday the 13th! 
3:30 Alumni Field 
THANKYOU ST. JUDE 
Lead singer/guitarist looking to start band. Call Pat at 1088. ENDAD 
To "ANON.' girl who invited me to SMC happy hour lui fri: I got your letter Mon­day! Dare we try again? Please cell me. 
Metal vocalist needed. Cell Jell2469. 
Timothy Leary: After your speech. a group of your friends are gathering for a discus· aion. You are welcome to attend. Pleaaa calf Joe, 288-6176 
MARKETING CLUB Drop in anytime to room 607 P.E. or the Marketing Department and pay your $5 me-.hip fee. Deadline: September 16 Also, watch for signs regarding general meeting! 
MR. D's THUR. & FRI. NITE PARTIES. DANCING AND SPECIALS ALL NITE. ALL ARE WELCOME. BE THERE! 
VOLUNTEER COUNaELORI ARE NEEDED I WOMEN'S CARE CENTER Pregnancy Help Center Your compaaaion and wilkngneaa to speak the truth about the life of the unborn to women and girfa with problem preg­nancies are needed at the Women's Care Center. The Women'a Care Center is a pro-life pregnancy help 88fVice which aeeka to reach out to thoee who are facing a pregnancy alone. Help us show each woman and g1rl that abortion ia not the only alternative by offering her the love and support she may need to carry her child to term. Volunteering at the Center is an excellent way to serve others and to save lives. A comprehensive training program for counselors wiH be held at Moreau Seminary this weekend begin· ning on Friday night. Pleue consider sharing in this great work. For more in­formation about this program, call 234· 
0383. Thank you' 
MY ONE AND ONLY SISTER IS COMING TO ND FOR HER ONE AND ONLY FOOT· BALL GAIIE·IISU·NEED ONE TlCKET PLEASEIKATHLEEN 1275. 
FACE·ANN NOW THAT I HAVE AN EXTRA-LONG BED,I NEED AN EXTRA-LONG MAN. HAVE ANY IDEAS? 
Gimp, how's the party goddeaa' ankle?? Hope your dad doesn't kill me this weekend. Keep thai head up high!! MN 
IF YOU STILL LOVE ME, GAURD THE WARM FLICKERINGS OF YOUR HEART FROM THE COMING AUTUMN WINDS BUT KNOW THAT FLAMES GO OUT WHEN HIDDEN IN SAFE PLACES. 
TONY E, CONGRATULATIONS AND BEST OF LUCK IN ANN ARBOR. EVERYONE WIU BE WATCHING YOU!!\ 
BAIUNG CLUB REMEMBER DIAMOND LAKE REGATIA THIS WEEKEND­SHUTILE LEAVES SMC 8,10,12-"M·ND CIRCLE. IF YOU CAN DRIVE AND NEED DIRECTIONS CALL 284-5312 OR 283·2805 FOR DIRECTIONS. 
PING, YOU'VE MET YOUR MATCH. PONG. CAU284-4116. 
FRITZ! THIS TIME I JUST COULDN'T RESIST... 



The Observer Thursday, September 12, 1985 -page 1 1 
_______......._ 
IfElizabeth Barrett and Robert Browni~ had AT&T's 60%and40%discounts, itwould have been a terrible lossfor English literature. 

·'crJQowerr~ fyorr oQQ or,(:a~io~~ 
Come in and Browse 

3.27 lincolnway .23.2-3354 
BEAT the GMAT! 
Get I08 pages of Tricks thot Work for Higher Scores. 
The GMA T Exposed: 
Tricks from 20 Tests 
Send $12 to: T!STlliC roa tu PIJaLIC
(lu Cion lloll) IJOB Poralto lorkoloy, CA 94702 
$1--------------$ 
$1 $1 
Ll n Taylor Enterprises I WORD PROCESSING SERVICE  I  
I  I $1 OFF FIRST JOB I  I  
1  Call after 5:30  1  

-




---------------256·2108 
. And of course, she wouldn't have had to restrict her feelings to a mere sonnet's length, either. 
Mter all, you can always think of one more way to tell someone you love them when you're on the phone. 
Let us count the ways you can save. just call weekends till 5pm Sundays, or from llpm to Bam, Sunday through Friday, and you'll save 60% off AThT's Day Rate on your state-to-state calls. 
Call between 5pm and llpm, Sunday through Friday, and you11 save 40%.on your state-to-state calls. 
So when you're asked to choose a long distance company, choose AThT. Because with AThTs 60% and 40% discounts, you can satisfy your heart's desire without exhausting your means. 
Reach out and touch someone~ 

© 1985 AT&T Communications 
~--------------~--------~-~-< 
The Observer Thursday, September 12, 1985 -page 12 
SMC tennis team crushes IU/PU, but drops 5-4 match to St. Francis 



~u/Pae Llchco 

Notre Dame soccer coach Dennis Grace no longerbas to bang his bead as be did last week when his team was 0-3. The Irish got their first victory of the season yesterday when they beat DePaul, 3-1. Details ofthe game will be in tomorrow's paper. 
Parker admits he used cocatne siX years ago 
PITTSBURGH -Dave Parker said 
yesterday he began snorting cocaine 
while with the Pittsburgh Pirates six 
years ago and that his supplier 
became so well known among his 
former teammates he was invited to 
the Pirates' 1981 New Year's Eve 
party. 
The Cincinnati Reds outfielder, testifying for the prosecution in the drug distribution trial of former Philadelphia Phillies clubhouse caterer Curtis Strong, said Strong "is known .by quite a few players in the National League." 
"Curtis was pretty well known to have cocaine. Most ofthe Pittsburgh Pirates know him. He was friends with a lot ofguys in baseball," Parker said. 
He ·said he did not know who invited Strong to the party at the home of former Pirates third baseman Bill Madlock, and he was not asked if cocaine was used at the party. 
In his first public admission of drug use, Parker said that he bought cocaine from Strong and used it with him in Pittsburgh and in Philadel­phia. Parker testified that Strong also sold the drug to former Pirates teammates Lee Lacy, Dale Berra, John Milner and Rod Scurry. 
The two-time National League batting champion said he stopped using cocaine after four years be­cause it was hurting his performance and interfering with his personal life and because his friends who used it "were out of control." 
He said he was introduced to Strong in a Pittsburgh hotel room in 1980 by Dusty Baker and Derrel Thomas, then members of the Los Angeles Dodgers. He did not say if the four men used cocaine then. 
Parker testified that Strong first sold him coe".line in Pittsburgh in 1981 in the presence of pitcher AI Holland, then with the San Francisco Giants and now with the California Angels. 
Holland has been identified as a friend of Strong's and has been linked by others to cocaine use. 
Parker was the sixth major leaguer to implicate Strong, 38, who is on trial on charges that he sold the drug on 16 dates from 1980 to 1984. Parker followed Lonnie Smith of the 
'Kansas City Royals, Keith Hernandez ofthe New York Mets, Enos Cabell of the Dodgers, Dale Berra of the New York Yankees andJeff Leonard ofthe Giants. 
The trial is expected to continue through the week. 
Since testimony began last Thursday, 20 current or former major league players have been linked to cocaine use or knowledge ofits use within the sport. 
Parker said he first tried snorting cocaine in 1976 while playing winter baseball in Venezuela and shared it there with former major league pitcher Manny Sarmiento, now playing for the Pirates' Hawaii minor league club. 
His regular use began in 1979, he said. 
Four years later he quit "because my game was slipping and cocaine had played some part in it." 
Parker, the league's 1978 Most Valuable Player, led the league in 1977 and 1978, hitting for averages of .338 and .334 respectively. The first year he began snorting cocaine regularly his average was still above average at .310, but slipped to .295 in 1980, .258 in 1981 and .270 in 1982. 
"I wanted to get married, and that was more important to me than cocaine. I had a dau&hter. She was more important to me than cocaine." 
The Reds right fielder said he hasn't used the drug since he was signed by to Cincinnati as a free agent after the 1983 season through the re-entry draft. He is having his best year since 1979, batting .304 with 27 home runs and a league­leading 101 batted in. 
By PAMELA CUSICK 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team traveled to St. Francis College yes­terday and split two matches by shutting out Indiana Univer­sity/Purdue University at Fort Wayne 9-0, and falling short ofa vic­tory against St. Francis College by a match score of 5-4. The Belles split against the two fellow NAJA District teams to improve their season record to 1-3. 

Under the leadership of first-year coach Debbie Laverie, the Belles are on the upswing and look to the Dis­trict tournament to show their cumulative strength and ex­perience. 
Against IU/PU-Fort Wayne, the Belles had no problems on their way to victory. 
Anne Drahota led the way for the Belles at No. 1 singles by claiming her match when her opponent retired early with a final score of 1-6, 6-4, 3-1. Teammate Valerie Falbo was victorious ar the No. 2 singles spot 6-3,6-4. 
Dominating the entire match, Shawn Boyd won easily, 6-2, 6-l, at No. 3, while the No. 4 position was won, 6-1,6-0, by Belle Kim Drahota. Also a winner, Brigid Heratz shutout her opponent by a score of6-0, 6-0. 
Because Saint Mary's had already claimed the match by winning all singles matches, IU/PU-Fort Wayne forfeited the doubles matches to wrap things up. 
"We were very happy with our performance in the Indiana matches," Laverie said. "Our singles players are regaining the confidence needed to improve with every game. We just have to keep up the good work." 
Although the Belles seem to be improving, they could not pull things together against St. Francis. The team struggled and fell short ofa win by one match. 
The Belles won their matches against St. Francis at No. 4, No. 5 and No. 6 singles as well as No. 2 doubles. 

Kim Drahota beat her competitor by a score of 6-2, 6-l, Sheila Campbell. defeated her St. Francis foe in three tough sets, 6-7, 6-4, 6-4, Charlene Sjazko won easily, 6-l, 6-0, and in doubles play, Sjazko and Heratz came from behind, 4-5 in the first set, to win in straight sets, 7-5, 6-3. 
"We definitely can see improve­ment with our team.'s overall perfor­mance. We are getting better with every match," commented the Belles' head coach. "We hope to gain confidence at the time of Districts, but we have to make a few changes in our doubles teams before then." 
With the experience of playing two NCAA teams as well as two NAJA teams behind them, the Belles are ready to move ahead with con­fidence against Goshen College. Saint Mary's will be put to the test once again with Goshen, but the Belles hope to show the experience they have gained from playing top­ranked teams earlier in the season. 
"We can only get better," Laverie said. "We can only improve from playing NCAA schools. We are ready to compete with Goshen." 
"I encourage the runners to talk to each other. It is a little hard to get used to it, but they gradually do." 
By following this philosophy, last year's team put a quick end to races. 
"In one race (the National Cat­holic Invitational), our seven run­ners finished in a 38-second spread. It was unbelievable," Piane said. "Usually you try for 45 to 60 seconds. 
"Notre Dame would come in, and the race would be over." • 
This season the Irish will run twice at home. The site ofthe meets is the Burke Memorial Golf Course. According to Piane, the course is very flat and very fast, with just a few "bumps." 
Irish 
continuedjrompage 16 
team during the summer and ran well in the steeplechase." 
"Markezich won the mile at the Millrose Games. He also ran a 9:05 two-mile." 
Tyler said he also is high on the underclassmen. 
"We have some good freshmen and good returning runners, so I'm not worried anymore," Tyler said. "I'm really psyched." 
Piane said there are ten runners who could possibly make the start­ing seven. Those seven will be revealed tomorrow when the Irish travel to Columbus, Ohio, for their season-opening race against Ohio State, Michigan State and Missouri Baptist. 
In preparation for this season, the team has followed a workout con­sisting mostly of overdistance runs and FCRs (fast continuous runs). During these runs, Piane has em­phasized the team concept by en­couraging the runners to run as a group. 
"They have to run in a pack," he said. "I have yet to see a successful cross-country team that did not run as a pack. 



Timothy Leary= 
-He said goodbye to Folsom Prison and cell­block-mate Charles manson in July of ·7s. He· s since debated ll. Gordon Liddy, really gotten into computers, and started his own software company. Thus, tonight· s lecture: 
HIGH TECHDDLDGY: THE BDs THBU THE BDs 
Tba Future Pargectives Sarias 

'--rl[(l(~«·& (((({{({(00 ~ 
1Pm illllll 1fllimb1~ ~m OOmU 1PHr;~Ub1 1rm 00


~ rrrtlmlmru:bM] l1mffJJ@~ 
ffim:pff[ffillinnw UllininH0 0ffi UiffiJllillnlill (!II! runn0 rn~b1c LPm~llm [JmU Ufirn~Ub1 am ~m ill\'le@Ub1o ~ill Ollie@ ctlmCEfictlm rnmU Um Q]illc aa mo:m0\?m dlmcsfidlmctl mmn Um b1mm l1mffiUIDD l}Jfimffi0m ~Umrrm IDOI1Jrr U~ Um Ulhm ffimcsnffi!l ~Utrrrt:Ja OOUlhn~r l}JmnuJllm w~n D ~a 1tlliffiUc 

~·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, September 12, 1985 -page 13 
Basney Honda Used Car Specialt****iC 1980 Ford Fiesta 4spd reg $2495 * 
1980 Citation 4 spd reg $3295 lt ~ 1979 Toyota Corolla automatic reg $3295 ......_ ""?' 1979 Honda Civic 4spd reg $1995 Jllf"iC 1978 LaSabre automatic reg $2995 ltiC 1978 Plymouth automatic reg $2995 lt iC All at Reduced Prices Ill See Bob Welch lt iC Phone 256-5550 3820· N. Grape Road, lt iC Mishawaka, IN lt 
******************** 
MID·~ EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
FOODS

• lfelfto...-A IIHI Dulww SHAWBDIA • MU06DERA · BABA GHENOUJ HOMMUS· FELAFEL TEBBOULI SAI.AD 
SOUTH IENO • LEBANESB STYU 
• 
Pil• Stu/f.d SMaoidla GVIfOS 

• 
Oelifll4/ul Purrito • Turllull Co(ftt 288-5639 


Tuoo · S.l a.30Piol • 9:30PM 

South Africa Tonight ·Thursday 12 September 
WOZA ALBERT! 
B.B.C. Film of the play that stunned audiences in Johannesburg, London and New York. 
8 pm Center for 
Social Concerns 
Jack Kroll in NEWSWEEK: 
..Woza Alberti Is compassionately funny and piercingly observant...Two greatly gifted performers.'' 
--------F R E E-­
•Sponsored by African Studies In co-operation with Black Studies. 
Students & Faculty 


SAVE 

• Nosignup 
UP TO

fee. 
• Nomonthly 
40% 

service fee. 
ON YOUR

• Nominimum usage ... 
LONG 

pay only for what 
DISTANCE 

you use. 
PHONE 
CALLS 
~ 
:.~~c 
~~ 
SAVERLINE 
CORPORATION 
n.c Jeac U.talWc Wlc"JW~c 
• Start saving today by 
~ERLINE 
at 
1-800-742-0528 
or dialdirect 
1-812-232-2496 
Mondaytlvough Friday Bam to 5pm 

Sitting on the stands ofNorth Central College in Ricks, Tim Franklin, Ken Wilson, and Frank Naperoille, Ill., recently, these four sets oftwins are Hobart. From front to back on rlgbt: David Ricks, all members ofthe school's football team, the Car· Tom Franklin, Greg Wilson, and Wes Hobart. dinals, tbis season. From front to back on left: Don 
Presence of Nicklaus is 'a real shot in the arm' for Milwaukee Open 
36, 7,010-yard layout, a hilly course "I'm not approaching it any dif­with big greens. ferently than any other tourna· MILWAUKEE · The young turks ment," the younger Nicklaus said. 
Notable players in the announced
may be taking over the PGA tour, but But he admitted he was excited be· 
field were: george Burns, coming off
Jack Nicklaus still is the draw. cause he was playing in the same 
a win last week in the Bank ofBoston 
tournament as his father for the first Ask the organizers of the Greater Classic; Roger Maltbie, who's among 
time and because it was his second 
Milwaukee Open, who are the top 1 0 moneywinners on the 
Professional Golfers' Association overjoyed to have Nicklaus in a tour; two-time 1985 tour winner 
Tour event. tournament field minus Ryder Cup Joey Sindelar; and tour regular Andy 
Young Nicklaus, an amateur, competitors, including defending Bean. 
made his first appearance this sum· GMO champion Mark O'Meara and 
mer in the Quad Cities Open but
Jack Nicklaus II, the 23·year-old
local favorite and U.S. open cham· missed the cut. 
son of the "Golden Bear," also will 
!'ion Andy North. This also is the first year the elder
compete in the PGA tour stop, a 
"It's a real shot in the arm" and Nicklaus has competed at the
father-son event organizers say
should boost gate receipts, said Greater Milwaukee Open as a 
never has occurred. 
GMO spokesmanJohnAboya. professional. The 18th annual GMO was "If I'm playing ahead of him, I'll The 45-year-old Nicklaus played 
scheduled to begin today at Tuck· probably be looking over my in the tournament as an amateur in away Country Clul:l in nearby shoulder to see how he's doing," the 1961 when it was played at North Franklin. The S300,000 four-day golf elder Nicklaus said of his sometime Hills Country Club, finishing three event will go 72 holes on the par 36-caddy. "It won't be any problem." strokes behind winner Bruce 
Crampton. 
But Nicklaus probably is here only Dave Dravecky. Tuesday night, Rose because he's having an off year, one started against Padres right-hander in which he hasn't won a tourna·
Rose 
LaMarr Hoyt but went hitless in four ment. Normally, he'd be in Europe
continuedfrompage 16 
at-bats. He hadn't had a hit in his last with the U.S. ryder Cup team. 
The ball sliced gracefully into left· six at-bats and, for the fifth time in "You're darn right 1 intend to win center field, falling in front of the past nine games, he had gone hit· some tournaments," Nicklaus said at Martinez, who fielded it on one less. a news conference Tuesday. But bounce. Rose was able to get to Show right then the winner of 70 tour events 
Rose tied the record last Sunday in away, though, last night as he lined and 1 7 major championships said he Chicago, going 2·f<ft•5 against the the first-inning single and a later wasn't really sure what he wanted to Cuhs for career hits No. 4,190 and triple, and scored both Cincinnati do with the rest ofhis playing career. 
4.\'Jl. He returned home Monday runS to lead the Reds to an emotion· nit •t. much to the relief of Reds filled 2-0 victory over the Padres. "I happen to enjoy playing golf," 0' 1cr Marge Schott, thousands of Left-bander Tom Browning, 16-9, Nicklaus said. "Even though this has 
fa1~ who wanted to take their part in who was barely 3 years old when been a disappointing year, I feel I history and to Rose himself. They all Rose broke into the major leagues still can play. I know I don't play as wanted the record-breaker to conie with the Reds in 1963, tossed a five· well as I used to. in Cincinnati. hitter for his seventh consecutive "If my family wasn't playing. I But Rose did not play in the series· victory and the most by a rookie probably wouldn't be playing." he opener against Padres left-bander pitcher in the majors this season. continued. 

The Observer Thursday, September 12, 1985 -page 14 
Cards tie for first place 
Tudor, Cedeno boost St. Louis 
NEW YORK-John Tudor pitched a three-hitter for his third straight shutout and Cesar Cedeno led off the I Oth inning with a home run last night, giving the St. Louis Cardinals a 1-0 victory over the New York Mets that tied the two teams for first place in the National League East. 
Tudor, 18-8, won for the 17th time in his last 18 decisions and helped the Cardinals break a four­game losing streak. The left-bander held the Mets hitless until the sixth, when Rafael Santana led off with a soft single to center. 
A leadoff single in the eighth by Darryl Strawberry was New York's only other hit until Wally Backman led offthe I Oth with an infield single off Tudor, who struck out seven and walked two. 
The loss went to jesse Orosco, 5­5, who relieved Dwight Gooden in the lOth. 
Dodgers 12, Braves 3 

ATLANTA Mike Marshall knocked in four runs with three hits in the first five innings, Greg Brock hit his 20th home run ofthe year and Fernando Valenzuela hit his first homer as the Los Angeles Dodgers clubbed the Atlanta Braves 12-3 last night. 
Valenzuela, improving to 17-9, won the eighth of his last nine deci­sions against the Braves, coasting to 
Royals stretch lead 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Jamie Quick singled home one run and pinch­hitter jorge Orta hit a run-scoring double in the seventh inning to snap a scoreless tie last night as the Kansas City · Royals defeated the California Angels 2-1. 
The victory gave the Royals, who won two games of a three-game set at Anaheim Stadium, a 2 1/2-game lead over the Angels in the American League West. 
Kansas City's Danny jackson, who was winless in his three previous outings, allowed six hits over seven innings for his 13th victory against nine defeats. Dan Quisenberry pitched the final two innings for his 33rdsave. 
California's Ron Romanick, 13-8, yielded seven hits In the seven in­nings he pitched. Romanick has lost his last four decisions. 
The Royals, who trailed the An­gels by 7 1/2 games in july, now have won 1 0 of their last II games. 
Brewers 4, Yanks 3 
MILWAUKEE -Cecil Cooper's single down the left-field line scored rookie Mike Felder from third base with one-out in the bootom of the ninth inning to give the Milwaukee 

... 
Brewers a 4-3 victory over New York, snapping the Yankees' 11­game winning streak last night. 
The loss dropped the Yankees 2 I/2 games behind the Toronto in the American League East. Toronto beat Detroit 3-2. 
Felder, pinch-hitting, led off with a single and advanced to second on Paul Molitor's single to left. The run­ners advanced on Randy Ready's sacrifice bunt. 
Dave Righetti came on to relieve Rich Bordi, 5-6, and Cooper hit an 0-1 pitch just inside the left-field line. The Yankees thought the ball was foul and argued with third base umpire Vic Voltaggio who made the call. 
Teddy Higuera, 13-6, went the 

distance for Milwaukee allowing six 
hits. 
NLRoundup 

Dave Owen led offthe eighth with a single, moved to second on Bob Decnier's bunt and scored when Matthews lined a single to left. 
DeLeon has lost seven straight decisions since he last won on june 14. 
The win went to Ron Meridith, 3­2, who retired the only batter he faced when he got jason Thompson to hit into a double play in the sixth. jay Baller earned his first save by working the last three innings. 
Phillies 4, Expos 1 
PHILADELPHIA -Kevin Gross threw a five-hitter and Mike Schmidt hit his fifth home run in seven games to lead the Philadelphia Phillies to a 4-1 victory over the Montreal Expos last night. 
The Phillies' lOth victory in 12 games boosted the club to .500 (or the first time this season. 
Gross struck out seven and walked five in gaining his 14th vic­tory against nine losses. Bill Gullick­son, 13-11, took the loss. 
Giants 11, Astros 4 
HOUSTON -jim Gott went the distance, scattering eight hits, and hit his third home run of the season yesterday as the San Francisco Giants beat the Houston Astros 11-4 in the first game ofa double-header. 
San Francisco's Dan Gladden stroked four hits, scoring three times. joel Youngblood, who hit a solo homer in the ninth, drove in three runs, while Dan Driessen and Rich Adams batted in two each for the Giants. 
Gott, who also doubled in the ninth, struck out four and walked three in his seventh victory against I 0 losses this season. 
Gladden doubled and scored on Driessen's sacrifice fly in the first in­ning offjoe Niekro, 9-12. 
The Astros came back to edge San Francisco, 10-9, in the nightcap and gain a split ofthe twinbill. 

Baseball Standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE E-. E-. 
w L Pet. 011 w L Pet. 011 N-YOFk 83 54 .606 Toronto 88 51 .633 St. Louie 83 54 .606. N-York 85 53 .616 
2.5 MontrNI 73 64 .533 10 a.ltimore 72 64 .529 14.5 PhillM!elphia 68 68 .500 14.5 Detroit '71 67 .514 16.5 Chlc.go 66 71 .482 17 Boat on 69 70 .496 19 
Plttaburgh 44 91 .326 38 Milwaukee 61 n .442 26.5 Cleveland 50 90 .357 
38.5 
Weet Weet LoaAngalea 82 55 .599 KanaaaCity 79 59 .572 Cincinnati 72 64 .529 9.5 Clilifomia n 62 .564 2.5 
San Diego 71 67 .514 11.5 Chic.go 70 68 .507 9 Houaton 
68 70 .493 14.5 Oakland 69 71 .493 11 Allanta 58 80 Seattle 65
.420 24.5 74 .468 14.5 
San Franciaco 54 84 .391 28.5 Minneeota 62 76 .449 17 T-51 87 .370 28 
Y-*Y'•.._... v-.-........ 
San Francieco 11, Houaton 4 (tat game) leU.6, OakiMd 3 Houaton 10, San Franciaco 9 (2nd game) Toronto 3. Detroit2 
St. Louia1, N-York0(101nnga.) Boaton 4, a.ltimore 1 Philadelphia 4, MontrNI 1 Chic.go 5, Mlnneaota 0 Cincinnati 2. San Diego 0 Mllwaukee4, N-York3 
Chic.go 3, Pittaburgh 1 Kanaaa City 2. C&llfomia 1 Loa Angelea 12, Atlanta 3 Seattle II. Cleveland 5 
Quirk, Orta RBis beat Angels 
victory while allowing five hits and a run in six innings. 
The winning pitcher also began the scoring with a one-out homer off starter and loser Steve Bedrosian, 6­12, to tie the score at 1-1. It was the first of six straight hits Bedrosian gave up in the inning. 
Cubs 3, Pirates 1 

PITTSBURGH -Leon Durham hit a solo homer to snap a tie and Gary Matthews singled home an in­surance run to give the Chicago Cubs a 3-1 victory over Pittsburgh last nightr and send the Pirates' jose DeLeon to his I 7th defeat. 
With the score tied 1-1 in the seventh, Durham hit his 18th homer ofthe season off DeLeon. 

Blue Jays 3, Tigers 2 

TORONTO Uoyd Moseby singled home Tony Fernandez from second base to snap a 2-2 tie in the seventh inning as the Toronto Blue jays defeated Detroit 3-2 last night, sending the Tigers to their seventh straight defeat. 
ALRoundup 
The victory was the fourth con­secutive for Toronto. The Blue jays extended their lead to 2 I/2 games over the New York Yankees in the American League East. 
Fernandez opened the seventh with a single to center and after moving to second on a sacrifice bunt by Damaso Garcia, Moseby hit a shot back through the middle to make a winner ofreliever Dennis Lamp, 9-0. Tom Henke relieved Gary Lavelle in the ninth and struck out the side to earn his 11th save. 
Rangers 6, A's 3 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Mike Mason 
and Greg Harris combined on a six­
hitter and Ellis Valentine scored 
three runs as the Texas Rangers 
defeated the Oakland A's 6-3 Wed­
nesday. 
Mason, 7-13, gave up three hits in six innings, including Mike Heath's solo home run leading off the third. Harris recorded his career-high I Oth save, despite giving up run-scoring 

AMERICAN
How you live ~'CANCER
1t SOCIETY~
may save your life. 

A 
I 
0 u 

TONIGHT: 
MIXED DRINKS & 

m
COOLERS -$1 

0



0 on 
•
• IIDIDR 

IIDB 
FOR CLUB RENTAL CALL 283-1069 239·7521 

• 
doubles to Dwayne Murphy and L.::==========================~
Heath in the seventh. 
THE BREAKFAST CLUB 
THEY ONLYMETONCE. 
BUTrtCHANGED

.~~..,.. THEIR LIVES FOREVER. 
.of 20% Discount N.D.-S.M.C. Students 
"Early Bird Special" 
7:00pm $1.00 

niversity Park Mall and 
9:30 pm -$1.50Concord & Pierre Moran CLUB 
@9

Malls -Elkhart 



-~ -~ ~ ~ ~~-~ ~------~­

T0 day_____________________
T_h_u_r.sd_a_y_••se_.p._t_e_m_b_e_r_1_2_._1_9_s_s_-_p_a_g_e_1_5 

Bloom County 
1£ Sl/lfl 7HIWK5 liNIJ 1/SSV/WP Me 1711/Tlf/S NeXT PICTVI?e, '7h't WEU _I 
•CtJI.L¥? .PWrPt.e.• YOI/ WOVlfJ HI/V€ MII-5T'Ve 
NtJTHIN& 8fff tl111(}6 5Qiofe !J(.I{C/(5 IN fT. IMPF?i§56fON / 
\ ) 
Zeto 

ACROSS 1 Mlchaelmas daisy 
8 Parry 10 Last notice 14 Come home 15 Omnium· 
gatherum 18 Beach sight 
In Eng. 17 Ambling along 19 PDQword 20 Elev. 21 Hindu music 22 Happened next 24 Large In scope 26 "Peter Pan" 
pooch 27 Pipe joint 28 Household 
figures 31 Arose 34 Bathe 35 Fawnon 37 Geologic time 38 Skinned 39 OuldSod 
40 Stupefy ~ 1985 Tribune Me<lla Services, Inc. All Alghta Reserved
41 Take up arms 42 Mortimer the 
dummy 4 Marine flyer 43 Put to right 5 Heard a case 45 Movable cover again 48 Spinners 8 Counterfeit 47 Firs 7 Essayist 51 "So-do, so 8 Author Anals 
little done" 9 Llkesome 54 Melody pages 55 Fr. tourist 10 Leftovers 
center 11 Brummell 58 Glacial ridges 12 Lat. phrase 57 Mariner's 13 Care for 
skill 18 Soffit 80 Gauzy material companion 81 Tombstone 23 Wlnddlr. 
marshal 25 Short distance 62 Queeg's ship 26 " ...rulerof 83 Siphoned the quean's -" 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

110N'T6€T COCKY. 
I 
Kevin Walsh 
"Varmints! ... You're all just a buncti"ot cheatln' varmints!" 

Campus ~~ 
•4:15 P.M.-Notre Dame Debate Meeting, •7:00, 9:00, AND 11:00 P.M -SAB FUm, Research Assignments, library G-2, 
"Friday 13th", Engineering Andltorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Forensics Club 
Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1.50 

•7:00 P.M. -Placement Night, Placemeot Night for all Finance, Management and •7:00 AND 9:30 P.M. -SAPO FUm, "Breakfast Marketing Seniors, Memorial library Club", Carroll Hall, 7:00-51.00, 9:30 · 11.50 
Auditorium, Sponsored by Career and Place­ment Services 
•8:00 P.M. -FUm and Meeting, "Woza Al­

•7:00 P.M.-Debate Round, "Should the US ben!", Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored
significantly increase academic standards?" by African Studies, Black Studies and Anti­
library 600, Sponsored by Notre Dame Foren­Apartheid Networksics Club 
•7:00 P.M. -Meeting, LaFortune Little Theater, Sponsored by Special Events Com­•8:00 P.M. -SAD Lecture, "High Technology: mission, Student Activities Board, Dormitory The 1960's -1980's", Timothy I.cary, Was­Representatives and all interested students hington Hall, Sponsored by Student Activities 
should attend  Board  
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Roast Pork Loin  Roast Beef  

Stir Fry Chicken and Vegetables BeefTaco Two Bean Casserole Vegetarian Quiche SloppyJoe Sandwich Turkey a Ia King 
TV Tonight . . . 
6:00P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  46  LeseaAIIve  
22  22 Eyewitness News  10:00 P.M.  16  Nc:wllCenter 16  
6:30P.M.  16  MASH  22  22 Eyewitness News  
22  Three's Company  28  Nc:wllwatch 28  
7:00P.M.  16  Bill Cosby Show  34  The Summer of'42  
22  Magnum P.I.  46  Manna for Modern Man  
28  NFL Football Special: LA Raiders  !0:30P.M.  16  Tonight Show  
at Kansas City  22  Columbo/New Avengers  
7:30P.M.  16  Family Ties  28  ABC Nc:wll Nlghtllne  
8:00P.M.  16  Cheers  li:OOP.M.  28  Love Connection  
22  Simon and Simon  46  Prallle the Lord  
34  World Wac II G.I. Diary  11:30P.M.  16  Late  Night with  David Letter- 
8:30P.M.  16  Night Court  man  
34 46  From Blitzkrieg to the Bomb Ught for Uving  12:30A.M. 1:00A.M.  16 22  Allin the Family Nightwatch  
9:00P.M.  16  HIU Strttt Blues  2:00A.M.  46  Independent Network Nc:wll  
22  Hometown  

64 Eats late 
65 Adjective for Pliny 
DOWN 1 Shlllong's 
land 2 La -,Milan 3 Track advisors 
28 Do grammar word 
29 Mo¥9d swiftly 
30 Use a swizzle stick 31 Melancholy 32 Rip 33 Seep 34 Animal abodes 
36 Grid player 38 Puts forth 42 It's golden 44 Youngster 45 Singer 
Cantrell 47 Jostles 48 Rosefoe 49 Orono's state 50 Janitor 51 Fungus growth 52 Customer 53 Malacca stick 54 Rain cover 58 -Claire, Wis. 59 "MyGal-" 

,~ ~ ·•. ~ .~:>.QIKD.."'{XWIOMC. ~~~~~d~<;>~'!~~---~~~:>.01···.~·.a®J-·-;-;;<;:.>,»;.<.>.;c.<~'JM<~')'M{~~;:.~o::.;»-:;:..·:+;·· ·:.; 
~ ,G~~~ t:~ WIJt 1Jris4 <&arbtns : 1 '" Basement of Lafortune:Enter through door near Crowley ~ ~ Discount for weekend flowers ordered in advanee ~ 
0 

; : ::.;~ ORDER NOW! cALL 283-4242 Mon-S;t 1u;:Jo-5:Jo I 
{~·x.x~~,~~~'~.>.»~~~~~~· ' :~·· ..:~ . ·~·~~~.>,»,;.~~'HIIIR<,~)MX,.,<~lX'<~·-.('){.~('~~
-)181( : 

----~---­

Thursday, September 12, 1985 -page 16
S~orts 
Rose breaks Cobb's mark with first-inning single 
Liner to left of Padres' Show puts Pete in record books 
A.Moclated Press If it was his destiny, at least Rose has tried to keep it in perspective of 
CINCINNATI -Pete Rose broke his dirt-to-diamonds career. Ty Cobb's career hit record last "When I get the record," Rose night, 57 years to the day after said, "all it will make me is the player Cobb's last swing. The historic No. with the most hits. I'm also the 4,192 was a trademark single, giving player with the most at-bats and the the Cincinnati Reds player-manager most outs.... I've never said I was a the record at last and perhaps greater player than Cobb." forever. Indeed, Rose never expected to 
The hit was a liner to left field on a supplant Cobb, who built his record 2-1 pitch from San Diego Padres in 2,339 fewer at-bats over 24 right-hander Eric Show with one out seasons and compiled a .367 career in the bottom ofthe first inning. average, 62 points higher than 
It may have been the biggest little Rose's. hit in a century ofbaseball history. Cobb, who died in I96I, ended his career on Sept. II, I928, pop­
With one swing of the bat, one of ping out as a pinch-hitter for the
the biggest records in all of sports Philadelphia Athletics at Yankeefell to the calloused, workman's Stadium.
hands of the 44-year-old Rose, who is in his 23rd major-league season. "No record no other 1·
other in 
sport has the impact ofthis," said thePeter Edward Rose, the scrappy Padres' Steve Garvey. 
"Charlie Hustle" and future Hall of No one playing now is anywhere •Farner, surpassed Tyrus Raymond near Rose. The closest active player · Cobb, the brawling "Georgia Peach" is Rod Carew of the California An-­
:-",Y{/
and original Hall of Farner, as gels with 3,030 hits, I,l62 back and lAbaseball's all-time hit king. 
13th on the all-time list. And Carew 
APPhoco,
Fittingly, the record-breaker is in the twilight ofhis career. 
Pete Rose, shown here fielding questions during night. The bit wasa liner to leftoffSan Diego Padre 
came in Rose's hometown, where he Rose's record triggered celebra­
a press conference Monday, finally got the bit be righthander Eric Show, In a game won by the Reds, 
played his first 16 seasons andwhere tion in Cincinnati. 
needed to break Ty Cobb's all-time record last 2-0. Details at left.
he returned Aug. 16, 1984, as player­His teammates streamed out of manager after a 5-year absence. the dugout to congratulate him, and 
It was his 95th hit ofaseason high­he was hoisted briefly onto the lighted from the beginning by a shoulders of Tony Perez and Dave day-by-day countdown of the big­Concepcion. A sellout crowd, many 
Cross-country team hopes to stage 
gest record chase since Henry Aaron ofwhom arrived too late to see the passed Babe Ruth in career home hit, cheered Rose wildly as he wept runs in 1974. on the shoulder of first base coach 
repeat of 1984's successful season 
It was the 3,162nd single ofRose's Tommy Helms. Then his 15-year-old career. He also has 738 doubles, 132 son PeteJr. came out to congratulate By PETE GEGEN But will the slipper fit this year? They, along with Collins and sop­triples and 160 home runs. him, and Rose motioned, "Play ball." Sports Writer The Irish have lost three oftheir top homore Dan Garrett, are the four 
Cobb's totals included 3,052 The first-base bag was removed five runners to graduation, and anot­returning runners from last season's singles, 724 doubles, 297 triples and and taken to the dugout, along with The big question for the 1985 her runner, Mike Collins, is out until top seven. 118 home runs. the historic ball, fielded by left Notre Dame cross-country team is mid-October with an achilles injury. 
The talent, however, does not Rose's return to Cincinnati, where fielder Carmelo Martinez. whether or not it can have a "I was a little worried when I stop there. Head Coach Joe Plane he got his first hit on April 14, 1963, Rose took the first pitch from "Cinderella season" similar to the came back from summer vacation," said he is excited about two young was the final steppingstone to his as­Show high and outside, and he one last year's team had. said seniorJim Tyler, "but after a few runners, sophomore Rick Mulveysault on Cobb. fouled the second pitch straight Despite problems caused by practices I saw we had a strong and freshman Ron Markezich. 
"If the Reds hadn't needed a back. The third pitch was inside, and graduation, the 1984 team pulled group." , manager, he might not have gotten then Show dished up the record-together and established itself by Tyler, a three-time monogram "Mulvey is the big suprise," noted the chance," former teammate breaker. having an undefeated season and winner for the Irish, andJohn Magill, Plane. "He made the Junior National Johnny Bench said. "Maybe it was finishing 19th at the NCAA Cham­a one-time monogram winner, are fate or destiny." see ROSE, page 13 pionships. the co-captains for the 1985 season. see IRISH, page 12 
• 

Dingens a success -both on and off the field 
This will be a big weekend for the Notre Dame football 
if I'd return after those two years. I'd have an opportunity team, but for Irish defensive tackle Greg Dingens it will be for travel and a lot ofgreat experiences. I'm not sure what important for more than football. The Michigan game isn't would happen inthe future because the scholarship would
Larry
the only noteworthy event on Dingens' calendar for the open up a lot ofdifferent avenues for me." next few days -on Friday afternoon the 6-5, 257-pound Burke But when Saturday afternoon rolls around, Dingens will senior will be interviewing for admission to Michigan's be concentrating only on opening up some avenues medical school. Football Notebook through the Wolverine offensive line. 
"It's been pretty hectic." says Dingens, who has had to split his time this week between practice for the Michigan • game and preparations for Friday's interview. "I began the library to study. A lot of times I'd rather just relax and application procedure over the summer but I've still had watch TV. I guess I've been pretty disciplined as far as that Anumber ofNotre Dame players who hail from the Mic­
some work to do. As far as the interview goes, it's a pretty goes -but I've still managed to keep a good perspective on higan area will be making a homecoming this wet"kend in important date for me. Michigan is a really good medical things." Ann Arbor. But the game will be a special sort of tamily school, so I'm pretty nervous about it." His accomplishments over the past several years haven't affair for Irish seniors Mike Larkin and Ron Plantz. 
For Dingens, a resident of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., a gone unnoticed -Dingens has been a second-team Larkin, a co-captain and starter at outside linebacker, is a successful interview would be a stepping stone towards Academic All-America pick the past two years. But this year familiar name to Michigan fans, not so much for his own the achievement of a long-time goal. His career hope is to could mark the culmination of all the effort he has put in accomplishments, but for those of his younger brother become an orthopedic surgeon, and Michigan is the only during his years at Notre Dame. He is beingconsidered as a Barry. The younger Larkin was a two-time All-American at medical school to which he has applied. candidate for a Rhodes Scholarship, an award that would shortstop for the Wolverine baseball team and was 
Dingens' accomplishments are not unique when held up open up a variety ofnew opportunities for him. selected for the 1984 Olympic team. He signed with the 
to the success of other students, both at Notre Dame and "At first I had my doubts about it (the scholarship), but I Cincinnati Reds last June, after they made him the fourth across the country, but in comparison to the nation's field finally decided that I would pursue it," he says. "It would choice overall in the college draft. ofcollege athletes, his achievements make him a model for mean two more yearsofschool and it requires a lot ofwork "I tried my hardest, but I never could convince Barry to 
the ideal student-athlete. His strong, steady play for the for the application and interviews, but, now I'm sure I play football," recalls Wolverine coach Bo Schembechler. 
Irish defensive line has helped him earn monograms in would do it. It's an opportunity that I just wouldn't want to "He would've been a great defensive back for us. And as for each of his first three seasons, while his hard work and pass up." Mike, I recruited him real hard but he decided against us. dedication to academics has produced just under a 3.8 A Rhodes Scholarship and a trip to Oxford would change But I know the family very weU and I know that Mike liked grade-point average over three years in Notre Dame's his immediate plans as far as medical school is concerned, Michigan a lot." rigorous pre-med program. but the award also could have an effect on Dingens' long­Schembechler had more success with Plantz's younger 
"It's not easy finding time for everything between foot­term goals. brotherJohn, a 6-5, 246-poundfreshman offensive lineman ball and schoolwork," says Dingens. "I've had to make a lot "Going to England would be a tremendous oppor­on the Wolverines' roster. But while Ron is a starter at of sacrifices. It's hard to come home from practice after tunity," he says. "I couldget a deferral from medical school center for the Irish, John still must work his way up the 
getting pounded all day and then drag yourself to the for the two years that I'm in England, but I'm not evensure Michigan depth charts before he sees some playing time. 
.... 



