.----------------------~~-------~-------­
--~--------~------­
MS wrestling -page 8 

VOL XIX, NO. 118 the independent ~llldent new~paper ~lT\ing notn dame and ~aint man·~ THURSDAY, MARCH 28,1985 

Parietals extended at Saint Mary's 
change. 
By THERESA GUARINO  Student  Body  President  LeAnn  
Saint Mary's Executive Editor  Franks, Vice President for Academic  
Affairs Julie Strazzabosco, and Vice  
President for  Student Affairs  Kol­ 
Extensions for the existing parie­ lman together took charge of the  
tals system at Saint Mary's were ap­ student government parietals pro­ 
proved by College President John  posal, working togehter with Board  
Duggan yesterday, according to Stu·  ofGovernance members for input.  
dent  Body  President-elect  Anne  "We first found out channels we  
Marie Kollman. The approval  was  had to go through," said Kollman.  
announced to the outgoing Board of  "We tried to cover every base in our  
Governance  and  Programming  efforts." Writing up the proposal oc­ 
Board at a joint meeting of the two  curred after interviews with teach­ 
last night.  ers, administrators, and College staff  
Monday through Thursday, parie­ to gather different views on changes,  
tals will now begin at 4 p.m. and end  and any problems arising from them.  
at 12 a.m. Each Friday, they will be in  Conflicts such  as  time changes in  
effect from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m. On Satur·  locking the dorms were covered in  
day, hours will be from 12 p.m. until  the final proposal, written by Franks,  
2  a.m.,  and  Sunday, parietals will  Strazzabosco, and Kollman.  
begin at 12 p.m. and end at 12 a.m.  All dorms will now be locked at 4  
Hours  will  vary  on  football  p.m. Monday through Friday.  
weekends, when parietals will begin  The proposed changes first went  
at I 0 a.m. on Saturdays and Sundays.  to the Student Affairs Committee of  
The new policy provides for parie­ the Student Affairs Council, and was  
tals  during  football  games,  and  approved there. The council, con­ 
during final exams on weekdays.  sisting ofadministrators, faculty, stu­ 
The new extensions will take ef­ dents, and chaired by Duggan, also  
fect after Easter break.  passed  the  proposal unanimously.  
The parietals changes were first  The new policy finally went to Dug­ 
suggested last fall, when student government surveyed students for  gan, and was approved by him yes­terday, according to Kollman.  ND rocks forMS  
their opinions on the existing parie­tals policy. Survey results showed that a majority of the students were not satisfied with the existing sys­ "I'm very pleased at how receptive the two committees we had to go through were," said Franks. "This has definitely been the  Is Indiana Springsteen country? It was last night for Kevin Herbert, right, whose impersona­tion ofThe Boss wonfirstprize in last night's Rock- Alike contest. Karen Chapman's Cyndi Lauper also entertained the crowd at the event, which was sponsored by the ND AgainstMS campaign.  
tem  and would be in favor  of a  see PARIETALS, page 6  

O'Neill begins final campaign to block MX missile funds 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -House Speaker Thomas O'Neill Jr. yesterday opened the final campaign by oppo­nents of the MX missile to block release of S1.5 billion to build 21 more of the nuclear weapons. 
O'Neill pledged an "all-out effort" to change the handful of votes needed to reverse the effect ofa slim 219-213 pro-MX victory for Presi­dent Reagan in the House on Tues­day. 
A required second House vote will be taken at noon today on the long-range, intercontinental missiles, which critics say would be destroyed by the first barrage ofa So­viet strategic nuclear attack. 
Reagan and other supporters say the MX missiles are critical to the success of the Geneva arms control negotiations and are more accurate and powerful than the fleet of Minuteman missiles built in the 1960s. 
Under a congressional decision made last fall postponing the MX battle, two votes each were required in both the House and Senate for final approval of authorization and appropriations measures. 
The Senate gave its approval in identical 55-45 votes last week, so one more House vote will settle the issue for now, although still another MX fight looms on Capitol Hill this summer. 
There were differing assessments among House leaders on chances for a last round defeat for the MX. Majority Leader Jim Wright, D­Texas, said yesterday the earlier House vote should end the fight. 
"I don't know any reason to prolong the debate," Wright said. "I don't know any reason to believe that the voLe would be substantially different on appropriations than on authorization." 

O'Neill acknowledged that "it's not an easy thing to turn once" the House has voted once on an issue. But the speaker said he knows of three Republicans who have said publicly that they would vote for the authorization measure thus showing congressional resolve for the American negotiators at the Geneva arms control talks · while opposing the spending measure. He declined to identify them. 
MX foes also lobbied Democratic House members from southern agricultural states, seeking to con­vince them that farmers hit hard by a credit crunch would support an anti-MX vote because it helps to ease the economic crisis caused by high interest rates brought on by the federal deficit. 
And at the White House yester­day, spokesman Larry Speakes said "the outcome on the MX vote to­morrow is by no means certain." 

._."'r1ill·t.'• ~r~nd jury overturns prior ruling; ~ ~, :11,~~~ts Goe!:~~"~~~;ampt!:~~~~!..~:~ 
l , Attempted murder is a felony with on a subway on which Goetz, the ~iol((j NEW YORK· Bernhard Goetz was a maximumpenaltyofup to 25years four youths and about 20 other __ HJ indicted by a grand jury on four in prison. The assault and weapons people were riding. ,.,. counts of attempted murder yester-possession charges carry up to 1 5 day, a month after a first panel years, and the reckless endanger­
Goetz shot the youths · two of 

charged him only with illegal gun ment charge carries up to seven 
them in the back· with an illegal .38­

possession for shooting four youths years in prison. 
caliber handgun. 

on a subway train. 
Goetz faced up to seven years in 

The indictment in the internation­Goetz said he fired after the
prison on the felony gun possession
ally publicized case was announced youths surrounded him and one of
indictment issued by the first grand 
by District Attorney Robert Morgen­them said, "Give me S5," with his
jury.

thau one day after Goetz refused to hand thrust menacingly in his testify before the grand jury in a pocket. Goetz, who had been dispute over how much immunity When Morgenthau announced robbed before, said he was onlyhe should be granted. earlier this month that he would 
defending himself against a certain seek an indictment for a second robbery and beating.
time, Goetz predicted he would be 

The second grand jury also cleared "no matter how many grand But two of the youths have said charged Goetz with four counts of juries are called." that only Canty approached Goetz, fourth-degree assault, one count of "I'm not worried," he said. "I and that he merely asked, "Can I first-degree reckless endangerment know a jury of my peers will ex­have $5?" Canty's lawyer likened it and one count ofsecond-degree cri-onerate me again." to a pandhandler's request. 
I ~ 
The Observer 

In Brief 
The Hospice ofSt.joseph Countyawarded 
Notre Dame Assistant to the President James Frick its Man of the Year award Friday night in the Monogram Room of the ACC. The Hospice Is a volunteer health agency serving the terminally ill and their families in St. Joseph County. -The Obseroer 
James Davis, visiting assistant professor of mathematics at the University of Notre Dame, has been named one of 30 recipients of fellowships in the mathematical sciences awarded by the National Science Foundation. The awards are made through the NSF's Mathematical Sciences Postdoctoral Research Fellowship pro­gram. Davis received his Ph.D. in 1982 from Stanford University.-Tbe Obseroer 
A Notre Dame math team finished 2oth among more than 350 teams in the 45th ~ual William Lowell Putnam Mathematics Competition. The contest included more than 2,100 participants on teams from colleges and universities in North and South America. Notre Dame's three-member team was led by valedictorian James Roche, who had the 60th highest individual score in the competition. -The Obseroer 
Of Interest 
Cavanaugh Hall Productions will present 
three performances of Nell Simon's play "Barefoot In The Park," tonight, Friday and Saturday nights at 8 at the Chautauqua Ballroom in LaFortune Student Center. The performance will benefit the Sow­der Scholarship Fund. -The Obseroer 
Financial aidis available for studentsplanning to take the LSAT, MCAT, GMAT or GRE test preparation courses from the Stan­ley H. Kaplan Educational Center. Aid is based on need and ranges from 2 5 to 75 percent ofthe course cost. -Tbe Obseroer 
The Departnlent ofArt, Art History and Design will sponsor a bus trip to the Art Institute of Chicago and the Museum of Contemporary Art Saturday, March 30. The bus will depart from the CCE at 9:00 a.m. and return to campus at approxi­mately 8:00 p.m. The fee for the trip Is S I 0. -The Obseroer 
Creighton Miller, former All-American football player at Notre Dame and now a Cleveland attorney specializing in sports law, maritime law and communications, will speak to the En­tertainment and Sports Law class of the University's Law School today at 2. The talk in Room 110 is open to the public.-The Obseroer 
The World Hunger Coalition is sponsoring a 
Mass in remembrance ofthe starving. The Mass will be celebrated by Father Steve Gibson today at 5 in the Pasquerilla West Chapel. A simple meal will be served in the P.W. dining room following the Mass. -Tbe Obseroer 
On Monday' April 1 and Tuesday, April 2, Phil Delaney, vice president ofThe Northern Trust Company in Chicago, will be in the Career and Placement Services office for the Executive-in-Residence series. Delaney will be discussing careerS in the banking industry as well as career/job search techniques. Sign­ups will be in the Career and Placement Services office, Memorial Ubrary. Deadline for sign-ups is Friday, March 29 at 12 noon.-The Obseroer 
Design and manufacturingin fabric act will be the topic oflectures by LaPorte artists Skif and Usa Peterson today at Saint Mary's. "Design and Marketing of Printed Fabric" will be pre­sented at I: IS in Cushwa-leighton Ubrary's Media Center. All are invited to attend. The Petersons will also be reviewing the work of Saint Mary's art students during their visit on campus today. -The Obseroer 

Weather 
Fifty percent chance of thunder­showers this afternoon. High in the low 60s. Wind I 0 to 20 mph. Tonight and tomorrow, 50 percent chance of thundershowers. Low in mid 40s. High tomorrow in mid 50s. -AP 

The Observer 
lbe Observer (USPS ~99 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe ObserverIs published by the studenrs of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( 120 per se· mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of 1be Assodated Press. All reproduction rlghrs are reserved. 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor.............................. Anne Long Design Assistant .................. Andi Schnuck Layout Staff.................... Richard Connelly Typesetters ..jennifer Bigott, Vic Guarino News Editor ........................ Mary Heilmann Copy Editor................................ Miriam Hill Sports Copy Edttor..................Larry Burke Viewpoint Layout .............. Caroline Belin Features Copy Editor .. Margaret McCabe Features Layout............................ Tom Hall ND Day Editor ......................Alice Gromer SMC Day Edttor............... Toni Rutherford AdDesign .........Anna Marie Furlelgh, Usa Dickinson 
Pbotograpber ............................ Phil Deeter 
Thursday, March 28, 1985-page 2 



Memories of Alumni Van outlast tans and hangovers 
•"It 
was fantastic," said Saint Mary's student Laura Farr. "We were so glad to have the long distance phone ... Everybody I talked to really liked it," she said. "The bars got old really fast." 

•"It 
was a good place to meet people from Notre Dame that you didn't go down with," said freshman Mark Er­pelding. It was "a good place to have orange juice in the morning," he said. 

•"It 
was very nice to have the phone. They (the volun­teers at the van) were very friendly and helpful," said Saint Mary's student Kathy Bolotin. 


These Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are describing the Notre Dame Alumni Association van and those who staffed it. Itwas parked next to Penrod's in Ft. Lauderdale last week. Students did not travel to Ft. Lauderdale to participate in school sponsored func­tions. Yet, the presence ofthe van and those who staffed it was an enjoyable, helpful and unexpected part ofthe trip away from school. 
This was the second year 
the mobile alumni office 
made the trek to Ft. 
Lauderdale. The original 
idea for the van and the 
events sponsored by the 
Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's alumni associations 
arose from an incident 
which occurred in March 
1983 at The Button in Ft. 
Lauderdale. A Notre Dame student participated in a "Wet Willie" contest and was suspended and brought before the dean of students. Following this, there was a call for alternative events during spring break. 
Chuck Lennon, executive 
director of the Notre Dame 

Alumni Association, said he and Father Beauchamp, cur­
rently executive assistant to the president, asked them­
selves the question, "What can we do to become 
involved?" lennon called the Notre Dame Club of Ft. 
Lauderdale. He met with then Student Body President 
Brian Callaghan and other students. Saint Mary's Alumni 
Association also was included in the planning. 
The Student Alumni Relations Group also worked on 
the project. Even the city fathers ofFt. Lauderdale were 
consulted. 

Last year's trip to Ft. Lauderdale by the Alumni Asociation van was the culmination of this brainstorm­ing by students, alumni, and Ft. Lauderdale officials. lennon said last year's trip was very successful and led to an expansion of the planned events and services. He said the concept of an "oasis" in Ft. Lauderdale is not stagnant, but rather a "progression of ideas." Sugges­tions from last year's pilot program were implemented this year, such as free orange juice and newspapers. 

Frank Lipo 

Copy Chief 
Highlights of the week were: the Watts telephone line, where students were encouraged to make free phone calls anywhere in the continental United States; a party which 460 students attended; a boat trip on the intra-coastal waterway; a snorkel trip to Key Largo; a Yankees-Orioles spring training game; and complimen· tary sandwiches, fruit and soft drinks for the ride home. 
Money for the events came from many sources. The Alumni Board of the Notre Dame Alumni Association approved a budget of approximately S5000. The Coca­
Cola Company donated S3000 in cash and UOOO worth of Coke. The Student Activities Board bought the baseball tickets. Saint Mary's Alumnae Association bought the orange juice and newspapers. The trips and the party were partially paid 
for by the students. 
Many of the events and services were a result of feedback from last year, said lennon. Approximately 650 students registered at the van. Ed Leonard, a sopho­more, was on duty in the morning, while Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni staffed the van in the after­noon and evening. Both len­

non and Kay Cochrane, associate alumnae director at Saint Mary's, made the trip to Ft. Lauderdale. 
"Next year the whole spring break timetable is differ­ent. Therefore, we're open for suggestions," said len· non, referring to the future of the Ft. Lauderdale project. "We're there strictly as a service," said Lennon. 
"I think we belong there ... ifthe students (think we) do," said lennon. 
Those students who participated in the events and services of the alumni van and the hospitality of those who paid for and staffed it, hopefully will not let that particular memory of Ft. Lauderdale fade as quickly as their tans. The "oasis" it provided was a credit to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. It is a service which should con­tinue. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board 

Thanks toyou... • 
itworks... forALLOFUS 

Unlliaclw.u 


ANNOUNCIN-G OUR NEW OFFICE 1341 PORTAGE AVENUE Martin's Shopping Center (219) 234-2400 ~...= ::.= == __:::~ --­Professional Vision ASSOCIATES Dr. Ronald L. Snyder Dr. Patrick Albert Dr. Jeffrey Coppes 1635 N. Ironwood 1341 Pol'Wge 4612 W. Western 932 E. Ireland 277-1161 234-2400 287-5949 291-7676 North of McDonald's Martin's Shopping Ctr. Belleville Shopping Ctr. Colony Cleaners Bldg.  

The Observer 
----------------------. 

Thursday, March 28, 1985-page 3 

New department forms as bio, microbio merge 

Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame will merge its biol­ogy and microbiology departments effective next fall. 
Unanimously approved by the fac­ulty of both existing departments, the formation of the department of biological sciences is intended to dissolve the boundaries imposed in recent years upon biological sub­fields such as ecology, physiology and cell biology. Many of the recent rapid gains in these specialized fields have been accomplished by teach­ing and research efforts that combine information from the 
various subfields. 
"When this merger is finally ex­ecuted, a new dimension in the rapid growth of the biological sciences at Notre Dame will have 
Th~ Obscrvcr/Pbil Deeter 

row, the Huddle should remain a popular refuge 
been achieved," said Francis Castel­
from spring showers. 
lino, Kleiderer/Pezold professor of biochemistry and dean of the Col­lege ofScience. 
"A cohesive faculty will be in place, in a single department, where
Medium-r~nge missile talks begin 
its members can more effectively 
Associated Press 
GENEVA, Switzerland -U.S. and Soviet negotiators met for two hours yesterday for the first detailed superpower talks on stra­tegic nuclear weapons in I 5 months. A bargaining session on medium-range missiles was set for today. 
Yesterday's session opened just after the House of Representatives voted Sl. 5 billion to build 2I more MX nuclear missiles, and as NATO defense mtrusters announced unanimous approval of U.S. re­search into space-based missile defenses and support for Washing­ton's position at the Geneva talks. 
Soviet chief delegate Victor P. Karpov declined comment on the talks' progress as he left the offices of the U.S. Arms Control and Dis­reporter who asked whether the MX missile was discussed in the session. Both sides have agreed to keep details of the talks confiden­tial. 
armament  Agency,  where  the  
meeting was held.  
Karpov  did  not  answer  a  

The series of detailed negotia­tions began Tuesday with a meeting at the Soviet mission by the group on space and defensive weapons, in which the U.S. team is led by chief delegate Max Kampel­man. 
Negotiatiators specializing in medium-range rockets were scheduled to open discussions at the Soviet mission today. 
A schedule for next week's meetings is expected to be an­nounced after today's session. 
Large crowd prompts 
Reagan administration officials had said support for the MX and the anti-missile research program, popularly known as "Star Wars," 
Senior Formal security 
would strengthen the hand of U.S. 
By DIANE SCHROEDER 
negotiators in Geneva. 
News Staff 
MX missiles are designed with 
Seniors attending this weekend's
I 0 nuclear warheads and can 
Senior Formal at the Palmer House 
travel distances ofmore than 8,000 
in Chicago can expect a capacity
miles. 
crowd of 976 students. Because of
Kampelman, chiefnegotiator for 
the amount ofparticipation, tight se­
the space arms set oftalks as well as 
curity is planned to discourage the
U.S. team leader, had been recalled 
attendance of those who have not
from the arms talks to try to sway 
purchased formal bids. 
members of Congress who were 
Special meal tickets must be ob­
reluctant to vote for the MX 
tained in order to be seated for din-
money. 
ner, according to Steve Smith, one of
He returned to Geneva on Mon­
four committee chairmen. These
day, two hours before the opening 
tickets, along with flowers, may be
of the first discussions on space 
picked up on Saturday afternoon be­
and defense weapons. 
tween one and three, outside the 
-------------------------------------------------------....
r ~ 
WANTED: Members of the Class of '87 for Junior Class Government 
We're tough. We're mean. We hate puppies. We know that there is a Red 
under every bed. Richard Simmons is a whimp. We don't eat quiche. 
We don't even know what it is. We steal candy from babies. We drink Jack 
Daniels. Straight. Without ice cubes. We'd sell our little sisters down the river 
for some more money. We don't bathe. We don't write good, and we can't 
even spel. And we never laugh. Ever. 
We are fighting a war for fun social life, quality service projects, and 
academic and liturgical excellence, and we're looking for Soldiers and 
Soldierettes of Fortune. The hours are long and the pay is non-existent, but ihe 
people are friendly, the activities are exciting, and the constituents, the Class 
of '87, make up the best Class ever! 
Are you interested in join"ing Notre Dame's most exciting branch of Student Government?? Do you want to make next year a terrific one for the Class of '87? If you answered yes to the above questions pick up an application for Junior Advisory Board and Junior Committee positions. 
Applications can be picked up in the Student Activities Office,located in the main lobby of the LaFortune Student Center, from Wednesday, March 27 
through Wednesday April 3. Applications are due back to the Student Activities Office by no later than 5:00p.m. Wednesday April 3. 
We encourage all l):lembers of the Class to apply and contribute as much 
time as you can. (ondon Program people are welcome.' With your 
participation and continued enthusiasm THE BEST IS YET TO COME for the 
Class of '87. 

pursue their Interests that encom­pass the span of biological organiza­tion from the molecular to the organismal levels_ Excellent pro­grams in teaching and research are a natural consequence of such a restructuring, which effectively blends the talents of so many to a common goal," Castellino said. 
Students enrolled in the depart­

ment ofbiological scienceswill have 
a greater choice of courses because 
restrictive inter-departmental re­
quirements will be eliminated. 
Morton Fuchs, chairman of the 

existing departments ofbiology and 
of microbiology, said the merger 
will mean a faculty roster of 28 full­
time teaching and research person­
nel. The merger will eliminate the 
undergraduate and graduate degree 
programs in microbiology, Fuchs 
said, but explained a microbiology 
concentration that includes existing 
courses will be available. 
The merger gained approval recently from both the University's Academic Council and the College ofScience Council. 
Grand Ballroom of the Palmer 
House. 
Students can check in any time 

Friday or Saturday. john Verfurth, 
Maureen Karnatz and Caroline 
George, also committee chairmen, 
advised "the earlier the better" be­
cause of expected long lines be­
tween two and seven. 
Seniors may attend the cocktail 

hour before the dinner and dance. 
The hour begins at 6 p.m. with enter­
tainment provided by a pianist and 
violinist. Dinner will follow immedi­
ately, with champagne served at 
each table. There will be a cash bar 
during both the cocktail hour and 
dinner/dance. 
Check-out must be completed by
1 p.m. Sunday. Those who fail to comply will be charged the regular room rate of $145. Students who cannot meet this deadline should contact the manager. 
Because of Palmer House deadlines, no refunds or changes will be made. Complete details are available in the booklet distributed by the Senior Formal Committee. 
Last year's attendance was 726 students. 
Gorbachev plans reply to Reagan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Soviet leader 

Mikhail Gorbachev plans to reply to 
President Reagan's summit proposal 
and their foreign ministers will 
likely discuss summit arrangements 
when they meet in mid-May in 
Austria, European socialist leaders 
said Tuesday. 
"Mr. Gorbachev told us he was 

going to answer Mr. Reagan's letter, 
and we hope it (the reply) will be 
positive," Kalevi Sorsa, the prime 
minister ofFinland, told a news con­
ference. 
Walter Hacker of the Austrian Socialist Party, who also attended a Kremlin audience with Gorbachev last Friday; said he believes Secre­tary of State George Shultz and So­viet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko will "discuss arrange­ments for a summit" when they meet in Vienna at the 30th anniver­sary of the treaty marking the emer­gence ofpost-World War II Austria 
"We will reply (to Reagan), we 

are polite people," Hacker quoted 
Gorbachev as saying. 

-~--------­
-----------~------~--------~ 
The Observer Thursday, March 28, 1985 -page 4 

WORRIES? QUESTIONS? CONCERNS? 
COUNSELINE is an anonymous service with tapes on many subjects. Call and ask for tapes in your area of concern. 
239-7793 
· Mon-Thurs 4-12 Frl4-8 

Yesterday's rain forced students to find a substi-mind the shiftfrom the quads to tbe Rock. tuteforfrisbee, but this weightlifter doesn't seem to 
Chenticals escaping from plants, New Congressional survey shows 
Assodated Pre88 
WASHINGTON -Nearly every chemical company responding in detail to a congressional survey said its plants are leaking "significant levels" of known and suspected cancer-causing substances into the air, a House subcommittee chairman said Tuesday. 
Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., also said the large companies providing data on leaks reported routine releases of 204 chemicals that Indus­try experts consider to be "proven hazards" to human health. 
FBI investigates bank's collapse 
conduct full-scale business. others formerly insured by privately owned Ohio Deposit Guarantee Fund have been allowed to open to allow customers 
withdrawals ofup to 5750 a month. 
While some institutions have re­ported heavier-than-normal transac­tions, the increased demand has been attributed to customers' needs for cash -not panic about the safety oftheir deposits. 
"DON'T BlAME ME! 

I VOTED FOR MONDALE!" 
Bumperstickers for only $2: 
B.P., P.O. Box 433 
Edison, NJ 08818 COLUMBUS, Ohio-The FBI, in its 

investigation of the collapse of 
Home State Savings Bank of Cincin­
112ti, has subpoe02ed Ohio Depart­
ment of Commerce records, a state 
official said Tuesday. 
Ohio Savings and Loans Superin­

tendent Robert McAlister said the 
subpoe112 had been served to the de­
partment when he took over his new 
post March 22, and the FBI is asking 
that the records be delivered no 
later than April 4. 
The records being sought were not specified, but McAlister said: "I understand they (the FBI) are inves­tigating everything." 
McAlister said he is devoting most of his time to "trying to protect the depositors" of the S&Ls ordered · 
Engineering Week Treaeare Hunt lctue 1: When found, this prizE will be your crowning achievement. Clue 2: This clue is the right size for March 17th. Clue 3: To win, you will have to come perilously close to the forbidden fruit. Clue 4: You're getting close, there's no reason to push the panic button. When you find the certificate, contact Mary George, x 3680.  

AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY~  

Waxman, speaking at a health sub­committee hearing attended by chemical industry executives, noted that only five of the substances now 
are regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency. 
He said finding this many toxics considered hazardous by the chemi­callndustry is "a serious condemna­tion of the EPA's abdication of responsibility to protect the public health." 
"Many of the routine release rates are extremely high, far greater than we expected even in the unreg­
closed temporarily by Gov. Richard 
Celeste following Home State's 
demise. 
Home State, based in Cincinnati, 
closed March 9 after massive 
withdrawals by depositors alarmed 
by the court-ordered closing of a 
Florida securities dealer. A week 
after Home State's closing, Celeste 
declared a banking emergency, 
closing Ohio's 69 other thrift institu­
tions whose deposits were privately 
insured. 
Three more institutions opened Tuesday under emergency legisla­tion enacted March 20. The law al­lows the institutions to do so upon obtaining federal insurance or demonstrating that they are eligible for it, McAlister said. 
In all, 23 have been authorized to 
--~============~--­
Applications for Off Campus Coordinators available in Student Government Offices 
Openings in the 
following commissions: •Liturgical •social •Athletic eSocial Concerns/ 
Community Affairs •Treasurer Must be living Off Campus next year Deadline: Monday, April1 Any questions? Call Beaver: 2225 
ulated world of air pollution," said 
Waxman, whose subcommittee got 
detailed replies from 54 of the 86 
firms sent questionnaires in january. 
"Almost every chemical plant that 
provided information on its leak 
rates is releasing significant levels of 
compounds proven or suspected of 
being hazardous to public health," a 
summary of the responses said. 
"How much of which poisons are coming from companies ... which did not respond to our information request is not yet known," the sum­mary added. 
The the 

WSND -Notre Dame Public Radio is currently accepting applications for the positions of: 
-Station Manager -Program Supervisor -Music Director 
-Production Coordinator -Business Manager 
Applications should contain a resume and a brief statement of intent and may be dropped off at the Office if Stu.dent Act~vities. 5)
239_7308 (9_ For further mformatton, call283-4184 (evenings) 

FRIED SHRIMP•••••••••••----. ~'6.25 PERCH••-----------------'7.95 SNAPP-ER•••••••-••--------'8.25 ANDARD CUT of PRIME RIB•••'8.25 CUT of PRIME RIB•••••.•• 'llSO 
• Offer not v•lid with •nrother MIW!ttisedspec/Ms 01' ca~IIIXi-.~ 
Expires 6,19115 
55.25 
55.95 
56.75 
'6.95 '1.............==-----~ 

~otin!~!~unt 
salettems 
N.D.-S.M.C. Students 


University Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 

The Observer Thursday, March 28, 1985 -page 5 
A hit forMS 
While baseball's greats are warming up in Florida and Arizona, here at Notre Dame our softball stars have dusted offtheir gloves and are back on the diamond. This team has every reason to 

Hijacker forces flight to Turkey; surrenders German plane to police 
Associated Press bul's Yesilkoy Airport yesterday sur­Boeing 727 on a Munich-Athens 
rendered to Turkish authorities, the flight and forced it to land in Istan­
ISTANBUL, Turkey -A lone semi-official Anatolia news agency bul, but then freed the 142 pas­hijacker who forced a West German reported. sengers aboard, the Turkish state Lufthansa jetliner to land at lstan-The air pirate commandeered the radio reported earlier. 
Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 
HC(JQowe!lg ~tt aQQ occagiong~' 
Comein and Browse 327 Lincolnway 232-3354 

.--------------------------------.saidhe was armed with a knife. 
1-:: ~~COUPON GOOD FOR A-T-THIS COUPON GOOD FOR '\l 
Burrito Supreme(., 
or Thco BeiiGrande~· 
Plus Medium Soft Drink 
ONLY $1.49 
f>! ~A~. PRI-..'ii-NI TillS C(K.IJ'()N Y.IU·.N OWI>I-.IUN<• l.IMIT ONl-nxrPON PI-.M. PI-JtSON Pf-:R VISIT NOI tiOOI> WITH ANY OTIU-.H OI·H:R CASfl RI-.J>t:MVTK IN VAUJI-. IS IJ:!tml Cl·.NT GO()() ONLY Al PAKl K'IPAJIN<i 
TA<:o 81-.U.• Nt:STAl•RAN·rs 

\ TACO Bibb_). I \ TACII Bibb. J I 
'--tflint~~-I '--/'wK~~_/ IL_o~~~!!:2_~1L~1~ _ j __ ~~P~~~~~·-J 
SOC OFF I
1 

I The Regular Price I I otany I I "THE WORKS" I I COMBINATION I 
1 1
PLAITinER 
Pl.t-.A.SI: PRI:.Sl-.NT THIS COUPON WHI-.N OH:I>t-.KIN<i
l UMIT ONt: COliPON PER PI-.RSON Pt.R Vl"ill NOI 
I 
Ci<X>I> WITU ANY CITHl:.R O.."f-""ER CASH ltH>t:MPTK>N 
VA.I.lll-. IS l/2tJTH CI:NT G<X>D ONLY AT PARTK"I~TIN<i
I I
TACO Hf:..U.. Rt'.STAURANT~ 
The Observer/Phil Deeter 

smile-they'vejust won today's campus softball game. The event was sponsored by the ND Against MS campaign. 
An airport official said six of the nine crew members had also been freed. The official, who spoke on condition he not be identified, said the hijacker had held the pilot, co­pilot and flight engineer as hostages. 
The official said teams of Turkish 
sharpshooters had surrounded the 
plane. The hijacker was believed to 
be a libyan and a libyan consul in 
Istanbul was called to the airport to 
talk to him, the airport official said. 
Officials at Lufthansa's offices in Frankfurt, West Germany, said in an announcement that the hijacker had demanded to be flown to libya. Air traffic controllers at Nicosia, Cyprus, 
BACKSTAGE 
Corner of Main and Mishawaka 
TONIGHT! 50¢ cocktails 8·11pm Next Mon. &lues: $1 cocktails all night Wednesday : all imports $1 
Open at 8:00pm 259-7233 
Training as a Lawyer's Assistant can give today"s college graduate a valuable edge in the job k 
mar et. Entnr-level positions in the Chicago area pay
. 
as much as Si2.000 to SI5,000-and some 

paralegals are now earnmg as much as 132,000.1 I.awyer·s Assistant. Program catalog. Q7 
It takes just three months of daytime study 
(six months in the evening) to prepare for a career as a Lawyer"s Assistant. The program at Roosevelt University is the largest A.B.A.· approved program in Illinois. and its record of graduate employment assistance is the best 
there is. 

RECRUITER ON CAMPUS APRIL 11 FOR INFORMATION AND A FREE­BROCHURE CALL (312) 341-3882 OR MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY! 
Pentagon denies blame in army major's death 
Associated Pre~ viet military installation. 
WASHINGTON -The U.S. army 
major shot by a Soviet sentry in East 
Germany was taking photographs of 
military equipment in an area that 
earlier was off-limits to American 
observers, senior State Department 
and Pentagon officials said yester­
day. 
However, the officials said, the Soviets removed the restriction on Feb. 20, apparently after completing military maneuvers there, notified the U.S. liaison mission and did not deter other American observers 
present a week to I 0 days later. 
Challenging a Soviet account, the two officials reiterated there was no justification for the slaying of the unarmed officer, Arthur D. Nichol­sonJr. 
"We feel that the use of deadly force, as the Soviet sentry did in the case ofthis tragic event, is totally out of keeping with the rules," a State Department official said. 
At the White House, spokesman 
Larry Speakes said the Reagan ad­
ministration is considering 
diplomatic steps against theSoviets. 
The Soviets called the shooting "regrettable" but said Nicholson had been spotted by a sentry taking photographs through the window of a storage building on a restricted So-
Child shoots playmate 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas-A 14-year­old boy who said he was being harassed by other students pulled a gun on the playground Tuesday and shot one of his classmates to "get them offmy back," authorities said. 
The youth then turned a .22­caliber pistol over to J.D. Brown, as­sistant principal of Page Middle School, and surrendered,. police said. 
"That's the only way I could get them off my back, Mr. Brown," the 
"In my job at the Fi'"l National Bank ofChicago, I am constantly using the knowledge acquired through my paralegal training at Roosevelt." 
-Ann BriU Estates, WiU. and Trtllll Graduate 
ILawyer's Assistant Program -~ 
430 S. Michigan Ave.IChicago. Ill. 60605 • 
l1n coop~ration. with .
IThe National Center rot P;ualegal Training Please send me a copy of the Roosevelt 
IIam interested in the 0 Chicago or 1 D Arling10n Heights location. I!:!:Nam~e---------­
Add,.,..

I=~---------­I~Ci:!.l.·-----------­1O!!s·~··•'--------~z~·~--­1~Ho~m•.!:!!:Pho~"·-----­
!!!""~"~"·~":.ccPh~o~"·'---------­
Approved ror '<A. and Ill. State Guaranteed Loans 
llolKt'vdt l'n~vrntl) lldm1U ;&II MudcnLo; on tM bUill ol 
,,xhvtd!aal mcn1 and.wltho'll rt"P"d 10 racr.l:olor. !oC'X or IIF· 

According to the Soviets, the U.S. major had been spying, which the press agency said was a violation of the 194 7 agreements under which the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain and France maintain military liaison missions in their respective zones ofGermany. 
The U.S. officials rejected the ac­

count by the Soviet press agency 
Tass as "designed to justify the kil­
ling of Maj. Nicholson." They in­
sisted he was not in an area 
designated by the Soviets as 
restricted or engaged in espionage. 
In fact, one of them said, the Soviets 
notified the U.S. mission in writing 
that the area was no longer out of 
bounds. 
"He had the right ofaccess, offree 

transit," the Pentagon official said of 
Nicholson. At most, he said, the 
Soviets could have detained Nichol­
son -as Soviet observers were held 
in West Germany only a few days 
earlier. 
The briefing was held on condi­tion the U.S. officials would not be identified by name or title. Copies of the instructions for U.S. army per­sonnel in West Germany were dis­tributed to reporters. 
"Detention may be effected by any member of the U.S. forces," the instructions say. 
administrator quoted the boy as 
saying. 
Jose Luis Herrera, 16, was in stable 

condition at Santa Rosa Hospital 
condition with a single gunshot 
wound to the chest, said spokesman 
Donald Lee. 
The youth, whose name was not released, was taken to the Bexar County Dentention Center where authorities said he would be held overnight for a hearing Wednesday with a juvenile judge. 
The playground shooting oc­

curred at approximately 7:45 a.m., 
before classes began, Brown said . 
Kidnapped Englishman released 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -British metal­

lurgist Geoffrey Nash, kidnapped in 
west Beirut nearly two weeks ago, 
was released unharmed early yester­
day near his home in the capital's 
mostly Moslem western sector. 
Nash's daughter, Nadia, said her 

60-year-old father appeared at their 
home shortly after midnight and said 
he had been released from a car 
nearby after "hours of driving" 
during which he was blindfolded. 
She quoted Nash as saying he was 

questioned during his captivity, but 
that he had not been harmed. She 
said her father, who suffers from a 
heart condition, was given the 
medicine he needed while he was 
held. 
Nash was the first of nine 

Westerners to be abducted or disap­
pear in Lebanon in the previous two 
weeks. Most of the victims were 
seized at gunpoint in west Beirut.­
The radical Jihad Islami organiza­

tion, believed composed of fun­
damentalist Shiite Moslems with ties 
to Iran, claimed responsibility for 
abducting Nash as he was leaving his 
home. 
The day after Nash was kid­

napped, British businessman Brian 
Levick, 59, was seized, and one day 
after Levick's abduction, Terry A. 
Anderson, 3 7, chief Middle East cor­
respondent for The Associated Press, was kidnapped. 

The Observer Thursday, March 28, 1985-page 6 
Missile explosion rocks Baghdad; Iran claims responsibility in attack 
Assodatcd Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Western Bagh­
dad was shaken by a huge explosion 
yesterday that Iran said was caused 
by one ofits missiles. Witnesses said 
the blast occurred beside two schools and a bus station, and may have caused hundreds ofcasualties. 
The explosion came shortly after Iran said it had fired a ground-to­ground missile at the Iraqi capital. Iraq struck back with an air raid on Tehran that the Iranians said killed at least 10 people and wounded 50. 
Iraqi officials said nothing about 
the cause of the Baghdad explosion 
or the number ofcasualties. 
A witness said the victims of the 
explosion were students, 
pedestrians and people driving by in 
cars. About 50 cars and buses were 
wrecked in the blast, according to 
the witnesses, who spoke on condi­
tion ofanonymity. 
Military police and secret service agents sealed the capital's western sector, over which a huge cloud of white smoke billowed, and barred reporters. 
Iran has claimed to have fired six ground-to-ground missiles into Baghdad since March 14, during an 
Clinic attacks denounced by attorneys 
Assodated Press 
WASHINGTON-An organization of state attorneys general urged the Justice Department Tuesday to in­vestigate abortion clinic violence, saying such incidents "interfere with the exercise of constitutional rights." 
At a policymaking meeting, the National Association of Attorneys General passed a resolution saying "there has been illegal harassment and intimidation of people who work in or vi&it abortion clinics. " 
It called for "a swift and forceful response by all levels oflaw enforce­ment" and said the Justice Depart­ment should "investigate and prosecute" people engaged in such activities. 
Francis Bellotti, Massachusetts at­torney general and association presi­dent, said leaving abortion clinic violence probes to the Treasury De­partment's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms is unsatisfac­tory. 
He said no one opposed the 
resolution. 
Parietals 
continuedfrom page 1 
highlight of the year for us." 
"Ofeverything we've done, this is our greatest accomplishment for the student body," she said. 
The new policy will be evaluated first semester next year by student government members, and student officers expect a positive response from students. "We've been working on this all year and we're really excited about it," said Kollman, who will be taking over April l. "I feel like 
we've done a lot of concrete things 
this year, and it's great to end it so 
nicely with this. The extensions 
should really better suit the needs of 
the students." 

escalation of the 4% -year-old war between the Persian Gulfneighbors. Iraq said two ofthe explosions were caused by saboteurs' bombs, but has made no comment on the other three. 
Iran's official Islamic Republic 
News Agency said yesterday's 
missile attack was retaliation for an 
overnight Iraqi air raid on Tehran 
that killed nine people and wounded 
14. The report was monitored in Nicosia, Cvorus. 
According to the London-based Jane's Defense Weekly, the missiles being fired are Soviet-made SS-1 Scud B missiles, which were intro­duced about 20 years ago and have a maximum range ofabout 160 miles. It quoted Western intelligence sources as noting that Tehran an­nounced the missile attacks three to 
seven minutes before the explosions happened, indicating the blasts were not due to sabotage. 
Iraq said that, after the Baghdad explosion, it sent warplanes to at­tack Hamadan, 240 miles southwest ofTehran. 
The official Iraqi news agency quoted an unidentified military 
TilE FUN BEGINS MARCH 29th ATATIIEATRE NEARYOU! 
spokesman as saying the raid on "selected targets" in Hama4an brought to six the number of cities attacked by Iraqi jet fighters since 
dawn. 

Earlier, the Iraqi military com­
mand said Tehran and four other 
Iranian cities were "dealt devastat­
ing blows." 

Both sides have stepped up at­tacks on residential areas in recent weeks. Iraq has said it is accelerating raids on cities to force Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's regime to end the war. 
Iran has made statements recently that, despite their bellicose lan­guage, also indicate a willingness for peace. 
In a statement monitored yester­day in London, the military com­mand said that if Iraq stopped attacking civilian targets. "commercial shipping and using chemical weapons, Iran's Islamic combatants would immediately end their retaliation in kind." 
But the statement addl·O: "should these wicked acts conti; .uc, the response will be even tougher and this time it would be ·rockets that would pound Baghdad to a pulp." 
l• ' -·? 
.~1.,4~ •.. -:~t'iVJ;~~:\ ' t 
APPboto 

Snow sends spring packing 
An unusual spring snowstorm dropped several inches of tbe white stuff in Redding, Calif., yester­day, knocking powerlines and trees to the ground. 

~i~~~_<>__i_ll__t_________________Th_u_rs-da-y,_M~-c-h2-8,~19-85--p-age-7 
No body wants to ride with a backseat driver 
When was the last time your parents rode in a car with you and tried to tell you how to drive? Did you ever stop to think that your parents were only trying to promote safety? 
Heidi Cemeka in the driver's seat 
Yet, it is irritating when you are driving along smoothly and all ofa sudden, your passengers grab for the dashboard and shout "slow down" or "watch out for that car in the left lane." Remember, your parents are used to being authority figures and they are only trying to help you. But did you really need to be reminded to slow down? So maybe you were speeding, but you chose to speed and you accept you accepted the risk of getting a ticket. Still, your parents had no right or real need to question your driving ability.Nobody 
likes a backseat driver. 
-Ifyou increase the scale of this illustration, is not the United States playing backseat driver to Nicaragua? If we do not like others directing us when we drive, then can we not conclude that others do not like it when we direct them? The United States is used to inter­vening in a paternalistic manner when we believe "father knows best." Sometimes, fa­ther is better off keeping his mouth shut. There comes a time when we are old enough to stand on our own. Dad may make a few sug­gestions, but only suggestions. We can decide. Maybe before the revolution, Nicaragua needed help against the totalitarian Somoza regime. However, since the Sandinistas ave taken over, they have begun vast social have taken over, they have begun vast social im­provements. In I979, over one-third of the country was enrolled in some kind of formal education. According to a January I985 bulle­tin by the Women's International League of 
Peace and Freedom, the Sandinistas, by 1979, had multiplied expenditures for health care by six. They had formed unions and enforced workers' rights. In I981, Nicaragua created 82,000 new jobs. It seems Nicaragua can drive by itself very well. 
OnJanuary 20, 198I, Reagan said in a press conference, "When covert action is required to preserve national security, we will act." So, it is alright for the United States to sneak in, oppose Nicaragua's government, and try to tell it what to do. What if you were driving with your family, including small children, and Mr. T and Arnold Schwarzenegger got in your car and tried to tell you how to drive. If your family was at stake, would you not do almost anything to protect them even against such formidable opponents? All the 
Nicaraguans are trying to do is preserve the 
advances they have already made and reach 
for more. They do believe in a: Marxist philos­
ophy for their country, but if this feeds 
children and improves literacy and health, is it 
wrong? In March I985, a commentary in The 
South Bend Tribune said forty percent of the 
Nicaraguan national budget must now go for 
fighting against the United States supported 
contras. The more Nicaragua must spend on 
this, the less money is available for helping the 
country get back on its feet. Nicaragua must 
be given a chance to drive its own car with no 
one trying to direct from the backseat. 
After the American Revolution, the United 
States took a long time to get on its feet. Close to 140 years passed before women and blacks had the right to vote. Ifwe earned our liberty · and struggled that long to straighten our wheels, should not Nicaragua get that same chance? Nobody likes a backseat driver, even ifhe is trying to help. So my advice is: United 
States, get out of the car. 
Heidi Cerneka is a sophomore at Saint Mary's and is a regular Viewpointcolumnist. 
anger students and their parents, the labor secretary has to be nice to labor unions, the secretary of state has to hire an advertising firm to convince the well-informed general public that he does not wish to blow up the world, and the budget director cannot com­
plain when congressmen behave like con­gressmen. 
joseph C. Howe FlannerHall 

ND is pro-choice when it comes to nuclear war 
Dear Editor: 
The talk Monday night by famous ecologist George Woodwell was appropriately titled "Nuclear War: Twilight of the Species?" That is because it is precisely the prolonged dark­ness and bitter cold following a nuclear war that could bring humanity to the brink of ex­tinction. But the poor attendance at the talk made it clear that it should have been retitled for the Notre Dame audience. It should have been called "Nuclear War: Abortion of the Species?" That is another accurate way ofput­ting it, and one to which the Notre Dame com­munity might respond. 
We are naturally suspicious of"pro-choice" advocates who refuse to look at pictures or descriptions of what abortion is. We realize that people who refuse to look at the conse­quences of what they might want to do are already guilty ofaccepting them. But when we choose nuclear war, without looking at all its consequences, we are considering aborting not just individuals but the whole human race. 
Julian PleasaniS 
P.O.BoxQ 

Christians must help all who are in need of aid 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to express my dismay over 
Frederick Everett's disapproval of the Coun­
seline tapes on homosexuality. I have not lis­tened to the alleged "poisonous" tapes but would like to argue they are not as evil as he professes. 
As an alternative form of psychological services offered to students, the rendering of these services does not necessarily represent a supportive stance regarding the issues of concern to the student. One would not neces­sarily assume moral support of alcohol drink­ing with development of an alcoholic anonymous group, but rather see the service developed in the interests of psychological support for people with a drinking problem. One should not equate extension of psycho­logical supportive services with moral sup­
port of the client's actions. 
To Everett, whether you approve of it or 
not, ten percent of the university population 
is gay. 
The Counseline tapes are one minute at­tempt of the counseling center aimed at promotion of healthy psychological adjust­ment for this battered group. Effective "counseling" necessitates non-judgmental ac­ceptance of one's total being. Accepting and condoning behavior( s) are not synonomous ideas. As concerned Catholics, do we deny this troubled minority group's existence and cheat them of any form of professional emo­tional support because of the judgments we make about their behavior? Or do we recog­nize their presence and extend, as Christians, unconditional supports, aware and open to 

their emotional needs rather than be judgmental about why they need it? 
AliceNasol Graduate Student 
Could it be Reagan's selections are not bad? 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to that highly edu­
cational article by John Neblo which ap­
peared in The Observer on March 26. The 
article, entitled "No President Can Rival 
Reagan's Appointments," caused great alarm 
among my fellow students and me. 
For the past four years, I have had a sneaky suspicion that Reagan appointees were human. However, I was appalled by the events which were chronicled in such accurate detail by Neblo. The deterioration ofour gov­ernment's leadership has gone too far. 
Some particularly threatening news is that Clarence Pendleton's opinions regarding ra­cial quotas, and the like, "insulted the civil rights movement." Can you imagine that? A government leader expressing an opinion that angers civil rights leaders. How can we let this happen? 
We learned of more bad news when Neblo informed us William Bennett had "angered students and their parents" with his com­ments on student loans. My gosh -it is bad enough that he angered me, but my parents ­that is just un-American. If the government does not give me another student loan, I might have to get a job and work my way through school. That is just not fair. I think they should raise everyone's taxes and give me a bigger student loan or else I might have to go to a state university. 
Then there is Labor Secretary Donovan who is going to trial to defend himself"against charges offraud and larceny." Why wait to see if he is guilty? I think we should accept the judgment of Democratic District Attorney Mario Merola ofNew York City and condemn him now. Besides, can you imagine someone in the construction business in New Jersey coming into contact with members of organ­ized crime? How can that possibly happen? It is a good thing he quit, anyway, because he angered the labor unions. 
However, there is good news. "The greatest step toward the preservation ofworld peace" has been the resignation ofAlexander Haig as Secretary of State. As Neblo says, "Haig ter­rified the nation." He sure had me terrified. I read where Haig was one ofthe few members of the Reagan administration who sought moderation in the hard-line attitude toward the Soviet Union. That did not fool me, though, because I knew he used to be an army general, and we all know how they are! 
We still have to do something about David Stockman, the director of the Office of Man­agement and Budget. He is up on Capitol Hill taking money away from all these programs that benefit our population. When the senate budget committee does not want to eliminate that much money he "behaves like a spoiled child." Doesn't he realize that these honorable congressmen each have their constituencies' private interests to protect? I think he should resign, too. Besides, I hear he works on those budgets for II hours a day, six days a week. I can imagine how much overtime pay he receives from the government. 
I say we make some new rules. From now 
on, the Civil Rights Commission has to agree 
with civil rights leaders on every point, educa­
tion secretaries can no longer say things that 
Garry Trudeau 

'51ft11.¥15UPtA5TN16HT 
IVfTHJUF!?eYANI?HAfJ 
70 CAU INSICKATtiJ(}!?J(. 
~8EEIJ7H!?CWING 
UPAU.PAYANfJ5T/U... !JOlT(j() TO 
5/..UP.H
""., 
"JOAN!&S4Y5SHeS &X­
HAIJS7l3fJANI?PfM{)I?IIIjZE/?. I TAK£JllfRelAN/J TCI-L JOAN!& THifT11/CU51/R.V/'15 
7HI5, 141&AI.JU4YSIX), THAT 
ON£li?YM'/..L.. = 
lAUGH 
ABOUTIT." 
Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5:ul3  
Editor-in·Chlef .  . Sarah E. Hamilton  Business Manager. ...  . Dav.d Stephen1tcn  
The Observer is the independent newpaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of ttle commun1ty. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, 1s encouraged  Managing Editor. News Editor. .. News Editor. . Saint Mary's Executive Editor Sports Editor . . Accent Editor Viewpoint Editor Photography Editor Copy Chief.  Amy Stephan ... Ke1th Harrison Jr. .. Dan McCullough ... Theresa Guarino ... Jeff Blumb .. Mary Healy Joe Murphy Peter C. Laches Frank Llpo  Advertismg Manager Anne Cull1gan Controller. Bill Highducheck Systems Manager. . Mark B. Johnson Production Manager . . ...... John A. Mennell Founded November 3, 1966  

~-----------------.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Accent 
The big match: wrestling MS 
Karen McCloskey 
features staff writer 
Y
ou've read about it, you've heard about it ... at last, you can see it. 
This Sunday at 1 p.m., Wrestle Mania comes to Stepan Center live, direct from Madison Square Garden via closed circuit television. 
Billed as the "closed circuit 1V sports-entertainment spectacular of all time," Wrestle Mania is the World Wrestling Federation's an­swer to the Super Bowl, the Stanley Cup, Wimbledon ala McEnroe and 
the RollerDerby Championships. In fact, there's a little bit ofeach in Wrestle Mania. 
The upcoming event is special to 
Notre Dame because proceeds from 
Stepan Center ticket sales will be 
donated to the ND Millions Against 
MS fundraiser. 
But what exactly is Wrestle 
Mania? 
Ifyou head over to Stepan this 
weekend, you'll find it's more than 
just an afternoon ofprofessional 
wrestlers pitted against each other 
in classic confrontations between 
the good guys and the bad guys. It's a pot pouri of tag team matches, body slamming, world titles, celebrities, egos, insults, athletics and entertainment. 
llte entire afternoon is a series of grudge matches to settle quarrels 
between opponents. The quarrels began when Captain Lou Albano publicly insulted rock celebrity and former wrestler, Cyndi Lauper. After these two were reconciled, (and began working together to raise money for the fight against MS), insult and injury wars began between other wrestlers involved in the conflict. Wrestle Mania was devised to finish the quarrels once and for all. 
The main event ofthe afternoon will be a tag team match with Hulk Hogan and Mr. Tof"The A-Team" challenging Rowdy Roddy Piper and Paul "Mr. Wonderful" Orndorff. The guest referee will be Muhammed Ali, the guest time keeper, Liberace, and the guest 
announcer will be Billy Martin. 
For those who are unfamiliar with professional wrestling, the tag team event is much like a relay race. One person from the team wrestles the opponent and the other team member waits, patiently or other­wise, in his or her respective corner until the teammate tags his or her hand. Then, the teammates switch positions. 
Both boys and girls participate in professional wrestling. In fact, an­other important match in the 
Big, bad Hulk Hogan looks ready for his wrestling match with Mr. T, one ofmany match ups scheduled for Wrestle Mania an event that will contribute to the big ' match up: ND Millions against MS. 
Below at left, wrestler Wendi Ricter with her manager Cindy Lauper who will also appear on the program to be presented live by closed circuit on Sunday at Stepan 
Center. 

Wrestle Mania afternoon will pit Wendi Richter, managed by Cyndi Iauper, against Lelani Kai, protege ofThe Fabulous Moolah, in a con­test for the World Wrestling Federa­tion's Women's Crown. 
Another "biggie" for the afternoon will be the S 15,000 Body Slam contest between Andre the Giant and Bigjohn Studd. Body Slamming is the practice ofone 


C
Spedal to The Observer zechoslovakia title: Czech Chamber Soloists to Perform at Saint Mary's 
Czechoslovakia has been 
called "The Conservatory of 
Europe" and with good reason: 
more musical ensembles ofhigh­
est quality have come out of 
Czechoslovakia than almost any other country. The Czech Cham­ber Soloists, an orchestra known in its own country and through­out the world as the epitome of the finest ensemble playing, will perform at H p.m., Friday, March 29, in ()'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
Founded in 1963, the group is comprised ofleading players of the Brno State Philharmoic Or· chestra. Their first North Ameri· can tour, in 1977, was highly acclaimed by critics. llte New York Times acclaims The Czech Chamber Soloists to be "vivid pnx>fof the high level ofCzech musical culture," and The Wash­ington Post reports, "The en­gross will be donated to MS. The 
remaining money will go to the 
promoters. 
"To break even, we need to sell about 300 tickets," Mandell said. "If we sellout ( 3000), we could make over $6000 for MS." 
By Monday of this week, over I000 tickets had been sold. 
To encourage the students to attend the event, Mandell plans to visit dorms and show videotapes of the wrestlers in action. He thinks that it is important for people to see the wrestlers and not just hear about them. 
"Some of these people arc so 
ridiculously obnoxious, it's un­
believable," Mandell said. "It's 
really funny just watching it. It's 
hilarious. It's like a real live cartoon, 
you can do anything you want." 
Asked why he had become so 
involved in this effort, Mandell said 
it was not only because he liked 
professional wrestling. 
"I guess it's for a good cause, too. Entertainment money should go for a good cause," Mandell said. "You -can raise money from an ice cream social," he continued,"but the big money is in entertainment. I hope that this is for the MS drive, that 
people aren't giving money for the MTV concert. You should always give. To me it makes sense, to others it might not." 

Czechoslovakia presents its finest 
Mary's includes "Concerto Antonio Vivaldi; E. Zamecnik's Gros~o in F Major, Op1.1s 6 No. 2" "Elegy for Violin and Strings" by George Frideric Handel; and LeosJanacek's "Suite for "Adagio for Strings," by Samuel Strings." Barber; "Concerto for Flute and The performance is part of Strings, in G Major," by Frantisek Saint Mary's Performing Arts students and senior citizens. Saint Mary's students are ad­mitted free. Tickets may be reserved by calling Saint Mary's College Ticket Office at 284­4626. 
semble performed with such 
dedication that a receptive audi­
ence awarded them with unceas­
ing applause." 
The Czech Camber Soloists' wide repertoire ranges from the Baroque through the Classical and Romantic periods to the Contemporary. In addition to the usual compliment ofstrings, the Orchestra features a harpsic­hord and solo flutist in its cur­rent tour of North America. 
Miroslav Matyas, artistic director of the Czech chamber Soloists, studied violin and con­ducting at the Brno Conser­vatory and graduated from the Janacek Academy of Music and Dramatic Arts under Dr. Alexan­der Plocek. He was made leader of the Brno Symphony Orchestra in 1951 and during the I 961-62 season, conducted the Tokyo Symphony Orchestra. Matyas is currently assistant conductor of the Brno State Philharmonic Orchestra. 
The performance at Saint 
person, usually a gentleman weigh· ing over 300 pounds, running into another portly person, holding him 
over his head, and slamming him 
down on the mat. 
Is there any redeeming athletic value to this type ofcompetition? 

"You got to be a skilled wrestler to throw 300 pounds around in the ring," says Ted Mandell. The Flanner Hall junior is single­handedly responsible for bringing this closed circuit event to Notre Dame and for arranging to have proceeds donated to ND Millions Against MS. 
"It's like a big soap opera," he continued. "I'm not saying it's all true. It's entertainment. But, it's got to hurt." 
Mandell, a longtime professional wrestling fan, called World Wres­tling Federation ( WWF) headquarters in Greenwich, Con­necticut and arranged to have Notre Dame included as a market in the nationwide broadcast of Wrestle Mania. 
Although the WWF i~ paying for all the publicity for the event, Man­dell paid for ticket printing costs out ofhis own pocket. He hopes to be refunded from the proceeds that will go to MS. 
Tickets are on sale for S8 and S 1 0 each. Twenty-five percent of the 

----------------------------------------~--------~--------------------------------------------------~------------------~~------------~------~ 
Thursday, March 28, 1985 page 8_-9 
Icy excitement 
Margaret McCabe 
assistant features writer 
A
nother weekend approaches. There may not be any basket­ball games scheduled, but there's plenty ofaction to be found on the courts of the ACC. The hoops have been temporarily replaced by ice, the costumes are not your basic blue and gold but pink, orange, florescent green ... and lots of smurfy blue. 

The Ice Capades, the traveling extravaganza on ice, is reknowned for its bright lights, flashy get-ups, a la-Rockettes routines and ofcourse, Smurfs. Last night's performance was no exception. There was an abundance of the above -but a few surprises helped make the show anything but predictable. 
From the show's opening interna­
tional themes, including a Hun­
garian dance number and a couple 
dancing to a romantic rendition of 
"Spanish Eyes," to "For Your Ice 
Unly," a skit featuring notjame~> 
Bond, but Barbie Smith as "jane 
Blonde", the show's aims were unmistakeably clear: variety and flare ... blinding flare. 
Itseems the Ice Capades' weak­nesses may arise from what most would expect to be its strengths. The show is a feast for the eyes but, afterall, gluttony is a sin. There were moments when there seemed to be too many people on the ice, too many props and far too much glitter and florescents for the 
retinas to handle. 
Simplicity is beauty as the old 
saying goes. This is probably why 
my favorite parts of the show were 
the soloists, like world-class cham­
pion Charlie Tickner or Canadian 
champion Kay Thomson, as well as 
the couples. These acts present 
figure skating in its most polished, 
graceful and professional form as 
the skaters to glide across the ice. 
The Smurfs cannot go unmen­tioned. Agood chunk of the show is actually an exciting episode in the continuing saga oflife in Smurfville. Smurfs may not be on the top of your favorite people ... or whatever list, but you won't mind watching the reactions ofthe more avid Smurffans. The small faces all lit up and concerned for the welfare ofa Smurfin despair might just melt 
the ice, not to mention your heart. 
IfIce Capades is on your agenda 
for the weekend, I don'twant to 
spoil all ofthe surprises. So I'll just 
warn you -be prepared for a color­
ful, fast-moving two hours featuring, 
among other things, fireworks, new 
cars and butterflies ... big butter­
flies. 
Even ifthe ice spectacular is not on the agenda, your curiousity should be peaked by now and I encourage you to experience Ice Capades first hand. Without a doubt, it'll brighten up your weekend and chase away the March blues for at least a year. 
Photos by Johannes Hacker 
A wide range ofacts graced the ice at the A CC last night and will continue to do so this weekend. Above, World Champion Charlie Tickner in mid-air. At right on top, Dave Pedley and Joey Purcelly clown around and below them, their fathers, Gigi Purcelly and Steve Pedley do some ofthe same. At right, a Smurfgets some attention from a little admirer. 
.. 
• 


Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame baseball team's game at Purdue, scheduled for yesterday afternoon, was postponed because of rain. The Irish will play host to Indiana on Saturday for a doubleheader begining at 1 p.m. -The Obseroer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will be meeting for practice today at 4:30p.m. and tomOTTow at 4 p.m. on Stepan Field. -The Obseroer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Clubwillholdpracticefor this weekend's freshman icebreaker regatta today from 4 p.m. to 6 
p.m. All first-year sailors, especially crew, are invited to attend.-The Obseroer 
NVA spring sports captains must attend meetings today. Women's soccer team captains will meet at 4:30 p.m., open soccer captains at 5 p.m. and baseball captains at 5:1 5 
p.m. All meetings will be held in the football auditorium at the ACC. ­
The Obseroer 

An Tostal innertube water polosignups will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Hall lobby. An entry fee of J7 will be charged for the 64-team tournament, which begins on Tuesday. Teams must consist of at least seven players, two of whom must be women. No more than two varsity swimmers or water polo club members may be on one team. -The Obseroer 
The ND Women's Water Polo Clubwin be meeting for practice tonight from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone who is interested may attend; no previ­ous experience is necessary. For more information, call Marianne Buckley at 283-3891.-The Obseroer 
An off-campus lacrosse teamis now forming. Anyone who is interested should attend a meeting tonight at 6 p.m. in LaFortune and bring proof of insurance. For more information, call Dan at 287-6262. ·The Obsen1er 
Applications are being takenfor the position of president of the Saint Mary's College Athletic Council for the 1985-86 school year. Applications can be picked up now at the An­gela Athletic Facility and must be returned by Thursday, Aprll4. All interested athletes are encouraged to apply. -The Obseroer 
I 

Thursday, March 28, 1985 -page 10 
Tennis 

Bookstore Basketball team captains must attend a mandatory meeting on Sunday from 1:1 5 p.m. to 2:30 
continuedfrom page I 6 

p.m. in the library Auditorium. This is the only time schedules will Grier and Daggs had earlier postedbe distributed. Tournament action kicks off on April 9 with the Hall 6-0, 6-0 victories in singles play. 
ofFame game.-The Obseroer Bolstered by the overwhelming victory, the Irish headed to the Women's Bookstore Basketballsignupswill 
Claremont College Tournament on be held Sunday from 2 p.m. to 3:30p.m. at OBUD on the first floor of 
the 22-24 of March. In their first ac­LaFortune. -The Obseroer 
tion of the tourney, the Irish scored a 9-0 victory over Northern Colorado for their fifth straight win. 

Professional wrestling is coming to Stepan Cen­Unfortunately, the Irish victoryter. The MS Drive presents World Wrestling Federation string was snapped by the Elis of"Wrestlemania," a closed-circuit broadcast live from Madison Yale, 7-2 on March 23. Gibbons beat Square Garden on Sunday at 1 p.m. Tickets are on sale now at the Shawn Read 7-6, 4-6, 6-3, and theGate 10 ticket office at the ACC and at Rock du Lac. All proceeds go doubles pair ofObert-Grier defeated to Multiple Sclerosis. -The Obseroer John Kim and Doug Robson 6-3,6-2, to post the two Irish wins. 
Dancin' Irish tryouts are coming up. An organiza­On the final day of the tourna­tional meeting for anyone interested in trying out will be held on ment, the University of Colorado
Monday at 7 p.m. in the Chautaqua Ballroom. For more information, redeemed its state's name by beating 
call Debbie at 283-3552 or lisa at 283-2697.-The Obseroer 
the Irish, 6-3, in the first meeting of the two schools. Gibbons continued Anyone interested in scorekeeping for 
his strong play by downingJon Salmi the Bookstore Basketball tournament should attend a meeting on 
6-2, 6-3. Dan Walsh beat Gary Os­Tuesday from 7 p.m to 7:30p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. 
teen 6-1, 6-2, and the doubles team Those unable to attend must call Suzanne La Croix at 283-1365 or 
of Nelligan-Daggs posted an 8-5 Pro­Marc Ramirez at 283-2504 before the meeting.· The Obseroer 
Set win over George Spiska and Gary Himes. An Tostal mud volleyball signups will be hetd 
Throughout the western road everyday through Thursday, April 4, from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the An 
swing, the play ofGibbons was espe­Tostal office in LaFortune. Each team must consist of at least seven 
cially impressive. The three-time players, two of whom must be women. For more information, call 
monogram winner from Miami, Fla., Janet Tabit at 277-3967 or Matt Corrigan at 283-2465.-The Obseroer 
went 7-0 in singles play to up his record to 11-1. Several top amateur wresders from the 
Head Coach Tom Fallon wasUnited States andJapan will participate in an international challenge pleased with the play of his team,match on Thursday, April 4, at 7 p.m. in the ACC. Some Olympians which he has referred to as "theand NCAA champions will compete, including Irish assistant coach kiddie corps." Fallon thought thatJohn Azevedo, the NCAA 57 kg. champ. Tickets are available now at his younger players got a lot ofmuchthe Gate 10 ticket office of the ACC at J5 for adults and S3 for stu­needed experience on the Californiadents 18 and under.-The Obseroer trip. 

The Irish next play on March 30 at Valparaiso before returning home to

An interhalllacrosse league is being formed 
face intra-state rivals Butler andby NVA. The deadline for entries is Monday, April 8. For more infor­Indiana on April 2 and 4. 

mation, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Obseroer 
Following those two home see BRIEFS, page 12 
matches, the Irish head back out onto the road to take on Ohio State 
on April6 and Michigan on April 10. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All classifi,ds
-Classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­
ters erda ·. 
NOTICES 
WORDPROCEISING 277-eo45 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKI!R, 2»-70011. 
TYPING Jeckla Bogga 11114-t713 
..................... 
PAD-TYPE Over 14 yra. experience typlng otudent papers. dioaertationa etc. 277-5833 
Word ProceN~ng -Call Andrea at 283­3880 from 8:00 am· I I :00 pm. 
TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 
BUAKAT COMPUTER CENTER 
SOFTWARE AND ACCESSORIES 
FOR MACINTOSH. BEST SELECTION 
SUPER LOW PRICES ALL SOFTWARE 
2D-50/ OFF 3105 MISHAWAKA AVE. 
287-3344 
................................................. 
ATIENTION RADIO AMATEUASif and anyone tntereatltd In getting involved In the NO AMATEUA RADIO CLUB for next y-. The club muat begin to organiZe now! II intareated calf Rick Skendzel at 1690. 
............................................. 
THE NEW YORK TIMESffl IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO ORDER THE NEW YORK TIMES FOR CAMPUS DELIVERY. CON· TACT GEORGE DEVENNY AT 145 STANFORD HALL 283·2094 
FOUND: CROSS PEN AND PENCIL IN ROOM 124 NIEULAND SCIENCE BLDG. CALL TIM at 2543 TO IDENTIFY. 

Loet: M111oon Samsonite overnight bag containing BOOKS and personal iteme. Loet 3/1 6 between NO and SMC. REWARD offered, no questiona. Pleaae call Barb at 283-3846. 
Losr'~"i~di~~ gold seiko watch around and about main or south quad about 2 weeks before spring break--heaps and bunches of sentimental value is attached to it--pleaae call Heather at 3763 If you have found it--thanka! 
FOUND: ONE COAT AND ONE BOOK ON THE WASH DC BUS. CALL 3744 TO CLAIM THEM. 
................................................................ 
Whoever left me in charge of their pear1a at the taat Dillon SYA. please call me to claim. Eric Schneeman at 3744 
WANTED 

Relatives traveling from El Salvador to see beloved president. So, I need many COMMENCEMENT tickets. Call 381 I or you may find a guenlla at your door. 
DE OR AlDERS NEEDED ANYWHERE FROM S. PA. TO DC AREA FOR EASTER. CAN LEAVE ASAP AFTER WED PM· ALAN 3128 
HISTORY TEACHER, FORMER TRAVEL AGENT, PLANNING SUMMER IN EUROPE, SEEKS PERSON OR PEA­SONS WITH SIMILAR PLANS AS TRAVELING COMPANION/$. CALL JACK YOUNG: 616-683·0547, Ex. 36. 
SA FORMAL TICKET NEEDED-IF YOU'RE WILLING TO SELL YOURS FOR FULL PAICBI, CALL 232·0659 OR 232-5432. 
WANTED: A place to live next year! If you are In need or an extra man for a house, or have yet to find an OC home, calf Ray at 2059. 
WASHINGTON, D.C. IS WHERE I NEED A AIDE TO. CAN LEAVE THURS .. APRIL 
4. CALL JOHN 277-0607. 
~ou Naltd Eaatar Aide? Aocklord,IL; Beloit,Madiaon,LaCroaae,Wf; I'm leaving 04/03/85 CaN 33110, Stave 
NEED AlDERS TO FLORIDA-LEAVING 412, CALL FOR DETAILS-3884-MAAY 
NEED AIDE TO MIAMI(OHIO)/DAYTON,3/29, CALL GLENN AT 3460 
CLEVELAND: ride needed to Willowick arealate4/4. Call 1250. 
need riders to COLUMBUS OH for Easter calf 2894 
FOR SALE 

FOR SALE:t980 PLYMOUTH CHAMP,TWIN STICK, AM/FM STEREO, RUNS WELL ASKING $800, BUT WILL NEGOTIATE. CALL jEFF 3859. 
1978 Pontiac Grand LeMana. Air­conditioned, No rust, One owner, good condition. $2800. 282-1805. 
For sale: La Belle a/ide projector, carrying caae, four stack loaders. Superb condi· lion. 277-1226 after 7. $50. 
I 978 Camero L T 6 cyt. 3 sp. I owner 79000 mi. $2950 John I 486 
TICKETS 

HELP I I I ONLY CHILO NEEDS 7,SEVENI, GRAD TIX. If I don't get 'em, they won't apoil me anymore. If you share your tix, I'll share what I have. CALL KAREN 2n-6740. 
PERSONALS 

OAR HOUlE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
Pin CLUB EASTER BUS SIGNUPS: THURSDAY, 6 P.M. LAFORTUNE UTILE THEATER. $45 ROUND TRIP, $30 ONE WAY. FIRST COME, FIRST lEAVED. QUESTIONS? CALL A.J. AT 
111J. 
ATIENTION FRANCOPHONES ET 
FRANCOPHILE& Le Cerde Francais vous invite a celebrer une soiree tres agreable avec nous. Une creperie aura lieu ce vendredi soir a partir de 9 heures jusqu'a une heure du matln a Badin Hall. Venez tous, meme si VOUIS etas des escargots. 
AlDERS NEEDED TO VANDER· BILT/NASHVILLE. LEAVING THUAS 3/28. CALL MARK ANY TIME, DAY OR NIGHT, AT 1638. RETURNING ON SUN 
NEED AIDE TO MILWAUKEE ON WED APR 3 $$$$CALL MIKE I 821 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: CAREER PREPARATION FOR YOUR SENIOR YEAR. WED., MARCH 27, 6:30 P.M. 118 NIEUWLANDSCIENCEHALL. SPONSORED BY CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. PRESENTA­TION REPEATED ON MARCH 28. 
ITAUAN CLUB NEWS The ND/SMC ITALIAN CLUB will be meeting this Thursday at 6:30 in the LaFortune Uttle Theatre. Elections of next year's officers are scheduled and details of Italian Culture Week will be discussed. 
JIM TABOR CORE COURSE Player of the week: Lonnie Erklna 
Seniors~want to sell some gear when you graduate? Will make a Very Reasonable Offer for a small refrigerator If interested calf x258-2998 
HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO-TH 8·I lpm FA-SA 8pm-t am 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: CAREER PREPARATION FOR YOUR SENIOR YEAR. WED., MARCH 27, 6:30 
P.M.118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. SPONSORED BY CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. PRESENTA­TION REPEATED ON MARCH 28. 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: CAREER PREPARATION FOR YOUR SENIOR YEAR. WED., MARCH 27,11:30 
P.M. 118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. SPONSORED BY CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. PRESENTA· TION REPEATED ON MARCH 28. 
THERE COMES A TIME WHEN WE HEED A CERTAIN CALL, WHEN THE WORLD MUST COME To­GETHER AS ONE ... Father Steve Gibson witt celebrate a MASS IN REMEMBRANCE OF THE STARVING SPONSORED BY THE WORLD HUNGER COALITION AT 5:00P.M. ON THURSDAY, MARCH 28 IN THE PASOUEAILLA WEST CHAPEL JOIN US FOR MASS AND A SIMPLE MEAL AFTERWARDS 
TO THE TASTY MUNCHES: John, Dan, Sutty, Chris, and Eddy. Thanks tor making Spring Break so much fun. It wouldn't have been the same without you. When are you going to tuck us In? Love, the Gumbettes. 
ATIENTION JUNIORS 
reservations are allllavaitable tor the 
CHICAGO ROADTRIP 
on April 13 
Cata tix only $35 
Cubblaa tix only $17 
"an evening of fun, baseball, culture and 
debauchery in the Windy City' call Dan 
now at 1787 

c3;;;;;j'j~'~'k'i~: ............................................ 
Laura. 
Amy: 
Julie, 
Maureen, 

In the BP hall elections! From your FANS 
RED 
RED 
RED 
RED 
REDII 
BEAUX-ARTS BALL PAINT THE TOWN RED FRIDAY 12 APRIL 8:30 BETHEAEfl 
.............................................................. 
KOAK THE QUAKE FM99. PROGRES­SIVE ROCK OF THE 80'S FOR THE BAY AREA. 
$45 tor inflator needles? Oh of couroe, you get a keg, too. 
• 
Are you looking tor aomethmg to do 1n CHICAGO over the summer?? Come to an organizational meeting tor a CHICAGO CLUB Sun. Marcil 31st Unle Theater 8:00 
MUD VOLLEYBALL SIGNUPS-AnToe­tal Office,LaFortune from 3-5pm. Signups March 28-Aprif 4. Info: Call Janet Tabit 277·3967,or Matt Corrigan 283-2465. 
CAMPUS VIEW APTS ...NEED: 2 Female roommates for school yr. 85-86. For info.call Janet Tabit-277-3967 after ltpm. 
ATIENTION JUNIORS!! Ita time to plan for the SENIOR TRIP to the BAHAMAS.Oepoaita can be paid from NOW tll 4/3 at Firat Sourae Travel officeo(Badin and Deccio). They accept all major credit cerda.Depoalta witt ba taken in LaFortune, 4/&-4/12(Tueo-Fri) from 6:30-8:30pm.THINK BAHAMAS!!! 
HEY, GREAT TAN!!!. ..AND I HEAR SKIN CANCER ISN'T AS PAINFUL AS THEY SAY. 
OKAY, BOYS AND GIRLS. CAN YOU SAY BIRTHDAY? Very good! Now you can wiah TERRI WILUAMS a HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY. This tan goddeu can be found In 748 
P.E.. or in your local Burger King parlclng lot. Or II you are too lazy, just ca/14570. Bonne annlversaire Terril!! 
HEY FLASH! HAPPY 2tstlll Love, The SMC Family 
...................... 
If you want to know where the chicken ia calf SMC 427 t 
ATIENTION THERESE RYAN: Aoaeo111ered, Vi~eta are blue. You don't know me, But I sure want you.. 
Roaemary MD and May: Thanks tor being ouch great room1es In Lauderdale. Don't forget about our party' II you bring Squish, I'll bring Pookey. May-we have to write to those guys from U.T. 
Jeff Herman-Hope you enJOyed your break. I'm from New York onginaffy, too. Love, Your Secret Admirir 





The Observer 
AnENTION SPORTSWRITERS There will be a mandatory meeting on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Observer office to set up coverage of spring sports. Anyone not able to aHend should call Jeff Blumb at 239-5323 BEFORE the meeting.  


B•tt•r Pric•• than that ••a~r atar•" ancampua Schaalauppli•• * H•alth & B•auty rw•da 
Znd Flaar LaFartuNt Dp•n Man-Fri. !1-7 p.m 


Hey You! 


SENIOR BAR,the fun nest bar on campus, is now accepting applications for 1985-86 managerial positions. 
Have you got what it takes?? 

Don't miss this once-in-a-lifetime pportunity for FAME, FORTUNE, and FUNII 
Pick up and return applications at the Student Activities Office in Lafortune by Fri., March 29 at 5:00pm·. 
P.S. It'll look great on your resume!! 

--------------------·-----~-----""'1 
Thursday, March 28, 1985 -page 11 
Associated Press scored three before leaving after 
four innings. 
Jim Rice showed his midseason In other games, Eric Showpitched Fenway Park-form by belting three six shutout innings and allowed doubles to highlight a 15-hit attack three hits as the San Diego Padres that carried the Boston Red Sox over halted the Seattle Mariners 7-1. the Chicago White Sox 8-7 in exhibi-Darryl Motley and Jim Sundberg tion baseball yesterday. drove in fourth-inning runs off At-
Rice doubled down the right-field lanta starter Len Barker to help the line in the first inning, hit a 400-foot Kansas. City Royals beat the Braves drive to the wall in left-center in the 6-2. second and belted a 420-foot double Bob Knepper pitched six strong to center in the fourth. The Red Sox innings and singled home a run as slugger drove in two runs and the Houston Astros tripped the Los 
I Notre Dame and St. Marys 1
·-------------------------~
I Starving Student I 1 Discount Coupon 10% OFF I 
I 14k Italian Gold and Sterling Silver II Chains, Charms, Bracelets & Rings 1 
I Students and Staff must present this Coupon or ID I I for lO percent Off-Offer Good Through March 3i,-i985 I 
1 Great American Jewelers I1 University Park Mall -On The Concourse I
I I
Checks Welcome • Visa (directly in front of Browns Sporting Goods) Mastercard • American Express ( l) _ II Layaways and Repair Serv~ce 2 9 277 3353 
·-------------------------~ 


MID .. EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
•· Yegeto~ & Meed Dulin FOODS-SllltWERMA~ IIUGEDERA -BABA GHENOUJ HOMMUS; FELAFEL TEBBOULI SALAD 
SOUTH BEND • LEBAIIESB STYLE. 
• 
Pita St&l/fed Slllldwiclou G VROS 

• 
Delillatful Pastrie• • Turlr.ilh Coffee Tues-Sat 5:30PM-9:30PM 


288 5639 
COMPLETECATEIUNG FOR . ­PARTIES & BANQUETS 8.1tt PorttJ~e .tw 
EASY RIDER 
TO AID FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
~HIIUI
,..._ 
lltfll, 

10844 Mc~'nley Hwy Osceol• ~,. 1I"IHHIIIIIII 
674-6993 ··~ , ~~~~.-~ 'unllll'mm 
255..3068 ~111'111 I ,.~ 'IIIN Hllltl
I • •
1 

or call you• Tra.e~ Aqen1 : I lW11111111111 "" I fJllllllllllllltllr.l
IIIII ~ hldlllll!llllll II 


~---------------------~-~-~-­
Thursday, March 28, 1985 -page 12
The Observer 

~ ~ 
f 
' ~ 
~ 
' 
~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ 
• ~ 
~ ~ 
••• •••• ~ 
•
.­
Tulane stars nabbed for point-shaving 
Assodated Press 
NEW ORLEANS David 

Dominique and Bobby Thompson, 
Tulane basketball players accused of 
shaving points in a gambling case, 
surrendered yesterday for fin­
gerprinting and booking. 
John Williams, Tulane's star cen­

ter, was arrested Tuesday night, as 
was Gary Kranz of New York, a 
Tulane student accused of the gam­
bling law violations and cocaine 
dealing. 
Cocaine was the apparent 

motivating factor, not money, said 
District Attorney Harry Connick, 
who added that it is possible other 
players are involved. 
He will take the case before a 

grand jury Thursday. All four were 
released without bail. 
At the grand jury hearing, two 

fulane basketball players who will 
be granted immunity from prosecu­
tion will testify about the three 
teammates accused of shaving 
points, according to a New Orleans 
newspaper. 
The Times-Picayune, The States­

Item said in its Thursday editions 
that the two players gave statements 
implicating themselves and their 
teammates. The newspaper, which 
did not identify the two players, did 
not identify its source, except to say 
that it was a source close to the in­
vestigation. 
U.S. attorney John Volz said his of­fice has been involved in the case for several weeks. He said he has asked the FBI to investigate possible federal violations. 
He gave no details about possible 

links to federal gambling raids in 
Memphis, Tenn., during the 
weekend. 
Dominique shook his head "no" when asked if he'd done anything wrong, but would not comment beyond that. Thompson paid no at­tention to the questions. 
They were instructed not to talk by their attorney, Russell Schonekas, who and also declined comment. 
Williams, after his arrest on Tues­day, denied any wrongdoing. 
Williams, Dominique and 

Thompson were booked on charges 
of violating Louisiana's sports gam­
bling laws. Kranz, of New York, 21, 
was booked on the gambling viola­
tions plus possession and distribu­
tion of cocaine, Connick said 
Tuesday. 
"I'm very confused. I want to see 

what evidence they have," Tulane 
Coach Ned Fowler, said Tuesday 
night. 
Kranz answered his telephone yesterday, but hung up after a terse statement. 
"I'm sorry, right now it's a big farce, and I have no comment -noth­ing," he said. 
Williams, 23; 'Iltompson, 21, and Dominique, 19, were accused of controlling the outcome of home games against Southern Mississippi and Memphis State in February. Point shaving means a player agrees to keep his team's score lower than gamblers predict -either winning by a lower margin or losing by a greater margin than the established "line" on the game. 
Tulane was a ten-and-a-half-point favorite over Southern Mississippi and won 64-63 on Feb. 2. 
Lacrosse 
continued/rom page 16 
but O'Leary hopes to iron out some of the offensive problems before the ML.A season starts for real on April 
10. A weak MLA team, Kenyon, will visit Cartier on Saturday afternoon, but the Irish will then play three non-conference opponents (Radford, Holy Cross and Stonybrook). 
Briefs 

continuedfrom page JO 
Interhall baseball umpires are being sought by NVA. Anyone who is interested may fill out an application at the NVA office.-The Observer 
1hink. you're a better refthan those in the Big Ten? Perhaps you would like to reffor Non-Varsity Athletics and the Bookstore Basketball tournament. If so, call Mike Dunn at the NVA office (239-6100). Previous experience is preferred but not neces­sarily required. -The Observer 
A Knute Rockne memorial Massand break­fast will be held on Sunday by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley at 9 a.m. in the West side of the South Dining Hall. For more information or to make reservations, call Pat Novitzki at237-5392.­
The Observer 

WVFJ Sports has announced some recent appointments, effective Monday. Kevin Herbert andJoe Malvezzi were named assis­tant sports directors. Pete Pranica will continue as sports director and Chuck Freeby will remain associate sports director. The station still has several openings for anyone interested in covering interhall, club and varsity sports. No experience is required. For more infor­mation, call Pranica at 239-5379 or 283-1938.-The Observer 
The Athletic and Convocation Center 
will now close daily at 11 p.m. The ACC opens at 8 a.m. -The Observer 
The ND Skateboard Club will be meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. outside the Lafortune Uttle Theatre to discuss ramp construction. -The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be dearly written. -The Observer 

The Observer Thursday, March 28, 1985-page 13 


Al'Pboto 

Kareem Abdul-]abbar's 21 points helped the Pacific division­leading Los Angeles Lakers to a 122-97 rout of the Seattle Super­sonics in last night's NBA action. The Lakers lead the division by 17 and a halfgames as the season winds down. Standinxs are at left. 

Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is a~cepting applications for the following positions: 
Features Copy Editor 
Questions should be directed to Mary Healy at the Observer office. Resumes and personal statements are due Tuesday, April2 at 5 p.m. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

EUROPEONSALE! 

AIID ICELAIDAIII IICWDES AU THESE EmiAS: 
0 Free wine with dinner, cognac after-in flight. 0 Free deluxe roundtrip mDtorcoach between Luxembourg and select cities in Gennany, Belgium and Holland. 0 Reduced train fares to Switzerland and France. 0 Super Saver Kemwel car rentals at $59 per week in Luxembourg. 
WE'IIE THE BilLY WAY TORY TO THE BREATHTAKIIB BEAUTY OF ICElAND. 
From a 24-hour stopover to a grand tour of two weeks or ~ore, we have the perfect package for a visit to Iceland, Europe's most beautifully kept secret. 
All lares subject to change and $3.00 international departure tax. All lares valid 4114-6/S.:85. except Orlando-511-5131185. For infonnation, restrictions and reservations foraU of Icelandatr s low fares, call Icelandair toll-free at 1·800·223-5500. In New York Coty 757-8585. 
ICELANDAIR.Jf/1­
NOW MORE THAN EVER YOUR BEST VAlUE TO EUROPE 
Colts deal QB  
Herrmann  
to San Diego  
Associated Press  
INDIANAPOliS-The Indianapolis  
Colts yesterday traded quarterback  
Mark Herrmann to the San Diego  
Chargers for a future National Foot­ 
. ball League draft choice.  
"I'm excited. It's a good opportu­ 
nity with a great organization and a  
great offense and quarterback. I'm  
looking forward to working with  
Dan Fouts," said Herrmann, whose  
new contract with the Chargers is  
for two years without an option.  
"I'm thrilled to be going to San  
Diego. I would think their system  
could benefit me more than some  
other people," Herrmann said of the  
Chargers, who have been looking for  
a backup to Fouts. "They throw a lot of underneath  ..  
(short) stuff and timing routes.  
Throwing the ball downfield like  
they did here last year is not my cup  
of tea, and the Chargers have one of  
the best receiving groups in the NFL.  
"It's always exciting with some­ 
thing new on the horizon," said Her­ 
rmann, 26, who has been hampered  
by injuries for much of his four-year  
career in the NFL. The draft choice  
from the Chargers was not dis­ 
closed, except that it would not be  
for 1985, the Colts said.  
Herrmann, who played at Carmel  
High School north of Indianapolis  
and then at nearby Purdue Univer­ 
sity, where he set many NCAA pass­ 
ing records, received a hero's  
welcome when he returned to his  
hometown with the Colts last  
spring. But he missed the first seven  
games of the 1984 season after injur­ 
ing his thumb in pre-season practice.  
He later played in three games,  
starting twice, and completed 29 of  
56 passes for 352 yards and one  
touchdown. He was intercepted six  
times.  
"I felt ifI stayed here, my chances  
would be as good as anybody's. But  
now I have to move on and keep pre­ 
paring myself," Herrmann said. "There were a lot of expectations  - 
(coming to Indianapolis), and I wish  
I could have done better, but now  
I'm going to be able to go out and  
start fresh."  
The departure of Herrmann  
·leaves Mike Pagel and Art Schlichter  
as the quarterbacks for new Colts'  
Coach Rod Dowhower. Pagel  
started the first seven games and  
nine of the 16 games last season,  
while Schlichter started the final five  
games in his first season back after a  
year's suspension for gambling.  
The Colts, then in Baltimore, ac­ 
quired Herrmann from Denver in a  
trade for quarterback john Elway.  
Herrmann was originally picked on  
the fourth round by the Broncos in  
the 1981 college draft.  
He did not see any action his  
rookie season and played only two  
games with Denver in 1982. He also  
played in two games with the Colts  
in 1983 after suffering a broken col­ 
larbone.  
Herrmann, who was in San Diego  
last week to showcase his skills for  
the Chargers, was re-signed by the  
Colts as a free agent on Tuesday and  
then traded yesterday.  
Dowhower, starting his first  
season with the Colts, said the trade  
"could work out well for both Mark  
and the Colts. We will have to locate  
a quarterback or a couple ofquarter­ 
backs for training camp to provide  
competition (for Pagel and Schlich­ 
ter)."  
Whether the trade would affect  
the Colts' draft, Dowhower said, "It  
depends on where a given player  
comes up. I don't see taking a quar­ 
terback high in the draft, because  
we're committed to certain weak­ 
nesses we have to fill -receivers, of­ 
fensive line and cornerback."  

NBA standings 
E•atern Conference 
Weetern Conference Atlentle Dlvlelon Mldweet Olvlelon w L Pet. GB
W L Pet. GB x-Denver 46 26 .639

x-Boston 58 14 .806 
41 30 .577 4.5
x-Houstonx-Philadelphia 53 19 .736 5 41 33 .554 6

x-Dallas

New Jersey 36 37 .493 22.5 
San Antonio 37 37 .500 10 
Wash~ngton 35 37 .486 23 
36 38 .486 11
Utah

New York 24 49 .329 34.5 
29 44 .397 17.5
Kansas City Centre! Dlvlelon Peellle Dlvl•lony-Milwaukee 52 21 .712 

y-L.A. Lakers 53 19 . 736 x-Detroit 39 33 .542 12.5 
36 37 .493 17.5
Portland

Chicago 35 38 .479 17 Phoenix 32 40 .444 21 Cleveland 29 43 .403 22.5 
30 43 .411 23.5
Seattle

Atlanta 29 44 .397 23 25 48 .342 28.5
L.A. ClippersIndiana 20 53 .274 32 53 33.5

Golden State 20 .274 
y-ellnehed dlvl•lon title x-cllnehed pleyoll berth 
L..t Night"• Reeulte 

Atlanta 125, Indiana 99 Boston 105. New Jersey 95 Philadelphia 115, Washington 97 Detroit 127. Houston 110 San Antonio 121. Golden State 120 Utah 116. Dallas 101 L.A. Lakers 122. Seattle 97 
SENIORS 
Remember to make 
GRADUATION PLANS 
with parents for Commencement Weekend 
May 17-19th 

FRI. MAY 17 -Senior Class Cocktail Dance -ACC North Dome 
tickets requited SAT. MAY 18-Dinner/ACC North Dome SUN. MAY 19·Brunch 
No./So. Dining Halls 
Order form has been sent to parents. Must be returned to CCE by April 23rd 
Thursday, March 28, 1985 -page 14
The Observer 
Blab, Alford pace Hoosiers 
Indiana, UCLA reach NIT final 
Assodated Press 
NEW YORK The Indiana Hoosiers held off Tennessee's "Comeback Kids" last night, showing some grit of their own in the semifinals of the 48th National Invitation Tournament. 
"We have a tendency to let off with the lead -that happened tonight, but we were lucky enough to turn it hack on," said Indiana cen­ter Uwe Blab, whose 24 points helped the Hoosiers post a 74-67 victory over Tennessee. 
Indiana earned a berth in tomor­

row night's championship game at 
Madison Square Garden against 
UCLA, which beat Louisville last 
night. 
Tennessee, which was making a 

habit of thrilling comeback victories 
in the NIT tournament, seemed 
about to do the same against Indiana 
by rallying from a 13-point deficit 
early in the second half to take the 
lead midway through the period. 
But Indiana held off that furious 

charge with some clutch play by 
Blab and U.S. Olympic team guard 
Steve Alford, who scored 23 points. 
"Alford and Blab are the offense," said Indiana Coach Bobby Knight. "If they're off, we're in trouble." 
Knight also said this was perhaps one of the least-talented teams he's had at Indiana. 
"We're not a good team, but oppo­nents will come at us as ifwe were in the top echelon," Knight said. "We can blow leads -tonight we did." 
Tennessee Coach Don DeVoe, who had seen his team wipe out a five-point deficit against Southwes­tern Louisiana in the last I 9 seconds of an earlier NIT game, was happy with just about everything, except the last five minutes of the game. 
"We just didn't play great basket­
ball in those last five minutes," 
DeVoe said. "But I'm proud of the 
team, especially the comeback." 
The 7-foot-2 Blab, who finished 
with 24 points, scored 14 in the first 
half as Indiana took a 40-30 lead at 
intermission. But the Hoosiers had 
to hold on as Tennessee rallied be­
hind Tony White. 
White scored 14 of his 22 points 
in the second half to bring the Sout­
heastern Conference team back. The 
Volunteers finally took the lead at 
NUL standings 
In this year·a NHL playoff format, the top lour teams in each div1sion make the playoffs, regardless of over­allleague standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Ad8ma Dlvlalon Smythe Dvlalon 
w L T OF OA Pta. w L T GF OA Pta x-Quebec 37 27 9 303 255 83 y-Edmonton 47 17 10 368 266 104 x-Montreal 36 27 11 2n 247 83 x-Winnipeg 42 27 7 339 314 91 
•·Buffalo 34 26 14 271 222 82 x-Calgary 39 27 9 342 286 87 
x-Boeton 33 32 9 276 263 75 x-Loa Angeles 32 30 13 324 308 n Hartford 
27 38 9 253 302 63 Vancouver 24 44 8 271 386 56 Patrick Dtvlalon Noma Dlvlalon 
x-Phlladelpnla  48  20  
x-Waahmgton  43  23  
x-N. Y. Islanders  39  31  
N.Y Rangers  24  41  
Pillaburgh  24  45  
New Jersey  20  45  


7  331  238  103  x-St. Loui&  
9  302  225  95  x-Chlc&go  
5  331  293  83  x-Detroit  
10  281  328  58  x-Minnesota  
5  258  354  53  Toronto  
9  245 316  49  

y-cllnched dlvlalon title x-cllnched playofiiMrth 
Laat Night'a R"ulta 
Buffalo 3, N.Y. Rangers 2 Hartford 3. Washington 1 P111Sburgh 4. New Jersey 3 Toronto 4, St. Louis 2 Chicago 5. Philadelphia 2 Winn~peg 5, Vancouver 3 calgary 4. Loa Angeles 2 34 28 12 275 263 80 36 34 5 291 284 77 25 39 11 293 341 61 24 40 12 252 304 60 20 47 8 235 323 48 
57-56 with 9:54 remaining with a 9· 0 streak keyed by their sharp­shooting guard. 
There were four lead changes and 
two ties before the Hoosiers went 
ahead for good at 66-64 on a basket 
by reserve Dan Dakich with 4:49 
left. 

White made a foul shot with 2:36 remammg to bring Tennessee within a point before Blab con­verted two free throws with 1:5 2 left to give Indiana a 68-65 cushion. The Indiana center then blocked a shot by Michael Brooks with 28 seconds 
left with Indiana holding a 68-67 lead. 
Bruins win 

NEW YORK -Brad Wright scored 
23 points and keyed an 11-2 game­
breaking burst in the final five 
minutes to lead UCLA to a 75-66 vic­
tory over Louisville in the semifinals 
of the 48th National Invitation 
Tournament last night. 

The Bruins earned a berth in to­
morrow night's championship game 
at Madison Square Garden against 
Indiana, which earlier in the night 
defeated Tennessee 74-67 as Uwe 
Blab scored 24 points and Steve Al­
ford added 23. 

UCLA led 36-33 at intermission 
and six times held nine-point leads 
before Louisville pulled even behind 
a run led by Billy Thompson, who 
scored 16 points. Thompson scored 
four straight points as the Cardinals 
made it 56-56 with 5:30 left in the 
game. 

Then, in the last five minutes, 
Wright took charge, scoring six 
points during the decisive streak to 
propel UCLA to a 67-58 margin with 
1 :06 remaining. 

The first half was closely played, 
with UCLA holding the biggest lead 
ofthe halfat five points. 

Nigel Miguel scored 20 points, in­
cluding seven foul shots in the final 
minute, for UCLA, 20-12. The 
Bruins, ofthe Pacific-1 0 Conference, 
have won 1 1 oftheir last 12 games. 

Hair must be S"-mpooed d•y of cut. We ere onlr mlnutn ,_c.mpus 

Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWRENTING FOR FALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 820 ND Ave 
or call

open Mon-Fri 3-6pm 
234-6647

Sat ll-3pm 
1.7SL 
899 
~ f!~ 
SUN COUNTRY COOLER 
4·PA(I( 


Budweiser 1/2 bbl.  $32.99  
Hamms 112 bbl.  27.99  
Little Kings 1/2 bbl.  31.99  
Budweiser Quarts  9.99  

~4(Jt~C3l~---------------------------------------Th--u_r_sd_a~y~,_M_~_c_h_2_8~,-1~98-S~-p~a~g~e-l~S 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 




The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 House: Sp. 5 Hill 9 Goidelic 
language 13 Utah city 14 Ridge 16 -the line 
(conformed) 17 Like a dolly 18 Watch part 20 Ancient coin 21 Flying saucer 22 Delicate 23 Explorer's 
ship 24 Course 25 Grampus 26 Classified 
items 27 Kindof statesman 29 Needing guidance 33 Lillieor 
Arthur 35 Disrespectful 37 Time 39 Ramble 42 Letter grade 43 Latin American 45 Family mem. 47 Square pillar 48 Foamy stuff 51 Part of Can. 53 -de Ia Plata 55-culpa 56 Works by 
Horace 58 Neither good 
nor bad 61 Coaster 62 Fingering 
guide 63 Home's cousin 65 London gallery 66 Tight 67 More rational 68 Great Barrier 
Island 69 Troubles 70 Says further 71 Make coffee 
DOWN 1 Period relative 

©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 3/28/85
All Rights Reserved 
3 Like a run· ner-up 4 Digestive 
enzyme 5 A rubbing out 6 Wroth 7 Military VIP 8 WWIIabbr. 9 Righteous 
10 Horse of a 
certain color 11 Broadcast 12 Whirlpool 15 Approve 19 Patriots' org. 28 Tip 30 Inferior 31 Direction 
letters 32 Put away 34 Drs.' org. 36 Spherical body 37 Cry of triumph 38 Snare 40 Embraces 41 Kind of raid 

2 "Lawrence of -" 44 Mimics 
Wednesday's Solution 

3/28/85 
46 Shingled area 58 Place in 
49 Tantalized Piedmont 
50 Loathers 59 Foodand 
52 Move unsteadily drink 
54 Writer Fleming 60 Eye: comb. form 
57 Cookout fare 64 Farm sound 
· 


2 p.m. -Lecture, By Creighton E. Miller, Former 7:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Reform in the U.S. Tax Sys­ND All-American Football Player and Now a tern," Eugene Steuerle, U.S. Treasury, Room 278 Cleveland Attorney Specializing in Sports Law, Galvin. Maritime Law and Communications, Room IIO 7:45p.m.-Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Ath-Law School. -letes, CSC, Everyone Welcome. 4 p.m. -Lecture, "The Golden Age of Catholic 8 p.m. -Cavanaugh Hall Players, "Barefoot in the Church Architecture in Chicago, I89I-I945," Dr. Park," LaFortune Ballroom, Through Saturday, Edward Kantowicz, Chicago, Illinois, library March 30. Donations Go to Sowder Scholarship Lounge. Fund. 
4:30 p.m. -Engineering Olympics, In Front of 8 p.m. -SMC Voice Recital, Carol Belland, SMC, Cushing Hall, Sponsored by Tau Beta Pi, Engineer-Soprano, Guest Artist Jan Bickel, Mezzosoprano, 
ing Week. 

6:30 p.m. -Presentation For All Juniors, 'Preparation ForYour Senior Year," Paul Reynolds, Asst. Director, Career & Placement Services, I18 Nieuwland, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Free. 7 p.m. -Thursday Night FUm Series, "Cleopatra," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 7, 9:15 & II:30 p.m.-FUm, "Blue Thunder," Engi­neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activi­ties Board, $1.50. 
7:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Christian Women in a Troubled World: Can We Really Make a Dift'er­ence?" Prof. Monika Hellwig, America's Foremost Woman Theologian, Georgetown University. 
TV Tonight 
6:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
6:30p.m.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
28  ABC's Nightly News  
7:00p.m.  16  MyAySyH  
22  Three's Company  
28  jeopardy  
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller 2  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
28  Wheel of Fortune  
8:00p.m.  16  Bill Cosby Show  
22  Magnum, PI  
28  Wildside  
34  34 Front ­Smoking  
8:30p.m.  16  Family Ties  

little Theatre (SMC). Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Dublin broil Spaghetti and meat sauce with meatballs or Italian sausage 
Saint Mary's 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. 12:30a.m. 

Roast beefau jus Beeftaco with hot sauce Vegetarian quiche Pork chow mein 
16  Cheers  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  Eye to Eye  
34  Mystery  
16  Night Court  
16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Keith Jarrett's Last Solo  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Newhart/Movie  
28  ABC News Nightline  
34  Movie . The Flying Deuces  
28  Love Connection  
16  Late Night With David Letterman  

The NO Student Activities Board is now accepting applications for the '85-'86 school year for the positions of ... 
STUDENT MANAGERS 
o/  
DARBY'S PLACE  ROCK DULAC RECORDS  
THE UNDERGROUND  STUDENT SAVER  
.  

Appllcatlo,.. available In the SAB Office-2nd Floor LaFortune Deadline: Thursday, March 28th lntervl~ begin March 28th 

SRorts 
ND lacrosse team takes conference opener, 9-2 
By MIKE SULLIVAN added two more goals early in the second 
Sports Writer quarter to give the Irish a 7-0 halftime lead. 
"Up until then, we were taking advantage of 
After opening its season over break against Lake Forest's mistakes and we weren't making some strong Eastern competition, the Notre very many ourselves," said O'Leary, who Dame lacrosse team was ready to play a watched his team struggle with the Foresters weaker Midwestern opponent. Yesterday on after halftime. "They kept making mistakes in Cartier Field, the Irish got their wish as they the second half, but we couldn't take advan­easily handled Lake Forest College, 9-2, to tage of them because we were making a lot of begin their defense of the Midwest Lacrosse mistakes, too." Association championship. Fortunately for the Irish, their defense did a 
Notre Dame moved to 1-0 in the MLA ( 2-3 good job of keeping Lake Forest from scoring overall) on the strength of a strong first quar­in both the first and second halves. Matt Talso ter in which it moved out to a quick 5-0 lead. of the Foresters did score twice in the third -Inc Foresters, who fell behind by as much as quarter -once on a fast break and once on a 7-0 in the second quarter, never were able to power play-to cut the lead to 7-2, but that was erase that five-goal burst despite some poor as close as they could get against Irish goalie play by the Irish in the sec.ond half. Rob Simpson who stopped nine shots before 
"We started out well, but we really let up," being relieved by Matt McQuillan, who said Irish coach Rich O'Leary. "We were picked up three saves ofhis own. making fundamental mistakes. Our catching Notre Dame needed all the defense that it and passing really fell apart after the first quar­could get because the offense disappeared in ter. rm not sure why, but if we do it against a the middle of the second quarter. After Troc­tougher opponent, we'll lose." chi's fourth goal 7:4 7 before halftime, the Irish 
Despite the less-than-impressive showing, could manage only two goals the rest of the 
though, the Irish never were seriously way, one of them scored by a Lake Forest 
threatened. Lake l'orest was supposed to chal­defender who deflected a Trocchi pass into 
lenge Notre Dame after playing very well his own net. 
during its trip to the East, but the threat never The lack ofoffense is obviously a major con­
materialized as the Irish took advantage of cern ofO'Leary's. In five games, the Irish have 
many Forester mistakes in the early going. scored just 3 l goals -20 of them by Franklin 
A.c; has been the case in the first four games and Trocchi. Unless they can increase their of­this season, attackmen Bob Trocchi and joe fensive production, especially from the Franklin were responsible for .most of the midfielders and the backup lines of attack, it Notre Dame scoring. With Trocchi scoring will be very hard for them to repeat as MLA four goals and Franklin adding another, the champions. Irish were able to score seven unanswered "Our biggest problem on offense is the lack 
goals in a 19-minute span of the first half, put­of teamwork," explained O'Leary. "We're not ting their visitors in a hole from which they looking for the guy with an open shot because never could climb. there's too rpany people trying to go one-on­
It was Trocchi's goal 3:3 5 into the game that one. Hopefully, we can get things straightened got the Irish rolling. The senior co-captain out. dodged a Lake Forest defender and bounced a "You take wins whc;:never you can get them, shot into the net with a Forester player in the but we still haven't put together four good penalty box. Four minutes later, midfielder quarters. Lake Forest isn't an Ohio Wesleyan Mark Steranka got past his defender and fired (one of Notre Dame's biggest MLA chal­the ball under the Lake Forest goalie's stick. lengers), so we're going to have to do better." 
With the Foresters havingproblems passing It is a good sign that the team can beat some the ball, Notre Dame continued to dominate MLA opponents easily without playing well, the action. John Wilson, Franklin and Trocchi 
see LACROSSE, page 12
scored to blow open the game, and Trocchi 


First-singlesplayerMike Gibbons helped theIrish toa 5-2 record 

Thursday, March 28, 1985-page 16 
,.... 
_,.. r \ 
I 
7 
"Ib~ Ob&crvf!'r /PhU ()ectCT 

Notre Dame defenseman Wally Stack ( 4) Irish beat the Foresters, 9-2,yesterday after­tries to keep a LakeForestplayerawayfrom noon at Cartier Field in their conference the goal as Irish midfielder Bob Carillo opener. Mike Sullivan bas details at left. 
(10) looks to help out on the defense. The 
Men's ~tennis team impressive on West Coast during break 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
While many Notre Dame students headed to Florida last week for Spring Break, the Notre Dame men's tennis team headed west to sunny California. The Irish compiled a 5-2 record on their western swing to raise their overall record to 9-3. Along the way the team finished fourth in the Claremont College Tournament. 
The first stop for the Irish was Cal State-Los Angeles on March 16. This was the first meeting of the two schools and the Irish emerged victorious by an 8-1 score. Junior captain joe Nelligan led the way with 4-6, 6-0, 6-2 win over Clay Redwood. In the closest match of the day, Cal State-LA's Bruce Ward outlastt>d Tom Grier 7-6, 6-7, 7-5. 
Irish eyes were smiling on St. Patrick's Day, as Notre Dame registered a 7-2 win over Pierce College. After dropping the first set, senior Mike Gibbons breezed to a 6-7, 6-I, 6-3 victory. 
On March 18, the Irish were to face the tough Trojans of USC, but fate in the form of rain interceded to wash out the match. The Irish posted their third straight win on the trip on their next stop, at Loyola Marymount, with a 7-2 decision. 
On their fourth stop, the Irish hit their peak, blanking Whittier 9-0. The doubles pairs of Gibbons-Dan Walsh, Nelligan-Paul Daggs, and Dave Obert-Grier were too much for the com­petition as each team posted 6-0, 6-0 wins. 
see TENNIS, page 10 

Rugby is alive and well at ND 
Alittle-known sport called rugby is alive at Notre 
Dame. Since early March, a group ofabout 70 players 
have been practicing three times a week in prepara­
tion for the club's upcoming spring season, which 
begins Saturday against a Chicago-based men's club 
called the West Side Condors. 
Most people, including many of the sports­
minded students on the Notre Dame campus, know 
very little about rugby or how it is played. What 
makes the sport so appealing to so many students? 
"Rugby seems to be the perfect sport for many 
who play, combining the aspects offootball and soc­
cer," says Steve Schneider, president of the rugby 
club. "This is especially true at Notre Dame, where 
we draw from such a large pool ofexcellent athletes 
who may have played one or both sports in high 
school. 

"With our intercollegiate f:J!I and spring schedules, rugby is particularly appealing to those players who are looking for more competition than interhall athletics can provide. Yet, as serious as we are about playing well against our opponents, the club's structure is informal and fraternal, and the demands and the commitments made by the varsity athletes are not present at our level. That may be the best reason for students to join the club, and it cer­tainly helps in keeping their interest afterwards." 
Although American football developed from the game of rugby, a flrst-time viewer may have diffi­culty understanding the sport as it is being played. 
"After being introduced to the fundamentals of 
the sport, you begin to see how much rugby and 
football are similar," explains Clarke Keough, a club 
member who played high school football. "Rugby 
does not have football's forward pass or player 
equipment, but the game has more kicking and 
lateral movement. Also, rugby is a quicker game and 
the transition from defense to offense is more fluid." 
~

Tom , -' 
Yoon ...... 
Club Corner 


the club's off-the-field activities have changed drasti­cally in the last few years. The club is currently on probation and has had to give-up participation in rugby's "third half', the traditional post-game party hosted by the home team. 
"The club has been under suspension at various times for nearly half of my four years here," says Schneider. "We would like to show the administra­tion that we can stay out of trouble. The athletic de­partment, especially (Athletic Director Gene) Corrigan, (Assistant Director of Club Sports Rich­ard) O'Leary, and (Assistant Director of Non-Varsity Athletics Dr. Thomas) Kelly have been very sup­portive. And our new moderator, Col. john Step­
hens, has been a tremendous influence for us as a 
team." 
"We miss many social aspects of the game which 
we used to enjoy," adds Keough. "But we are willing 
to give them up ifit means we, can continue as a club. 
More than anything else, we want to play rugby for 
Notre Dame." 
llle club travels to Ball State next weekend, then 
it.plays home matches the following four Saturdays. 
Notre Dame will play three matches against each op­
ponent's three teams ofplayers. 
"It should be an exciting season," says Schneider. "Each game should provide the excitement of pro wrestling and the grace ofsynchronized swimming." 
Ifyou're going to the Senior Formal this weekend, you can catch the Irish in action Saturday afternoon at Miller Meadows Field. Or you can see the team 

on their recent West Coast swing with his impressive play. The play at the Stepan Fields in two weeks. Come out. and 
With a successful fall record of six wins and one 
ser1ior posted a 7-0 record on the trip, to raise his season mark to 
loss, this year's club has continued the winning tradi­watch if you know someone playing, or if you just 
I I· I. Dennis Corrigan reviews the recent Irish road trip in his story 
tion associated with Notre Dame rugby. However, want to see what rugby is all about. 
above. 





