
Club Corner -page 5 

VOL XX, NO. 46 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1985 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Rape victim files lawsuit against ND 
By SARAH HAMILTON Editor-In· Chief • 
Attorneys for the Saint Mary's nur­
sing student who was raped last May 
on the road between the College 
and Notre Dame filed a S3 million 
law suit against the University in 
federal court in Chicago yesterday. 
The suit <.·harges that Notre Dame 
dill not supply adequate security on 
the road bNween the two schools 
for the vi<.'lim and now claimant 
whoM" name was unavailable as of 
last night. 
Notre Dame owed the woman 
"the duty of exercising ordinary and 
reasonahlt· care to protect her from 
niminal a<.'tivity and harm," accord· 
ing to tht· suit. The University acted 
"wantonly, willfully. recklessly and 
with a consdous disregard for the 
rights of invitees," the suit states. 
At approximately I I p.m. May 12, tht· studem was returning from Notre Dame alont· along the road <.'onnecting thc two schools when 'he wa.' attacknl from behind. She said shc <.·ould not ht·ar her assailant approa<:h hccause she was wearing earphones and listening to music. 
The victim then was dragged into 
a woodcd area IHO feet from U.S. 
Route 31 where the assailant bru­
tally assaulted and raped her accord· 
ing to the law suit. 
lksides failing to protect the vktim, the suit alleges that Notre Dame did not warn students and patrol the road. The llniversity failed to provide "adequate precautions to protect the safety of the students and those who were invited to its prcmises, such a.' Saint Mary's stu· dc:nts," the suit states. In another <.·harge, the suit t·hallenges that the lighting on the road between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is inadequate. 
Tht· Chicago law firm ~>f Harvy J. Barnett ami Associates is filing for SI. 'i million in punitive damages and SI. 'i million in actual damage. 


'Humanitas' joins ND publications 
By PATRICK CREADON 
StaffReportl!r 
Editor's nnte: This article is part trvo ofa two-part series examining new Notre Dame campus publica­tions. 
lbe College: of Arts and Letters, in nmjun<.·tion with the: departments of philosophy, English, government and the Program of Liberal Studies, Is in the process of producing the first edition of Humanitas, a once-per· semester journal, 'according to john lkttling, editor-in-chief. 
"The idea for the journal was not an original one," Dettling said yes­terday. Actually, there have been several proposals in the past for such a publication, but the plans had never been carried out." 
Dettling added,"At the beginning of this year, I went to the Dean ofthe College: of Arts and Letters, Michael l.oux, with my plans. lie told me that If Iconstructed a format for the jour­nal, put together a staff, gathered commitments from potential workers, and raised some money, he would back our efforts financially." 
A.~ of now, Humanitas is working with an SHOO budget which, accord­ing to Dettling, covers the cost of production, publishing, and many other "little things" which arc in· volvcd in putting together a publica­tion. 
Dettling also said his staff may look to outside advertising to help support the journal, but the stafl" would be "very selective" in choos­ing advertisers. 



·,. 
>. 
... l) ·:,•...;,.~, 
~ ... _., .....l ·t 
., • <-' 
..~. -·· ..... . 


...... « .......
... ...
-· 

Just singing in the rainTheObo<rv<r/HectorMoreno 
Anne Peterson didn't seem tn let the chilling November weather stop herfrom taking a stroll around North Quadyesterday. Winter coats came nut ofstorage all O!'er campus as temperatures dipped into the low 40s. 
of an Assistant Editor Brian Ulicny, Layout Editor, jean O'Brien, and six writers. 
The purpose of Humanitas, ac­cording to Dettling,"is to focus on scholarly essays by students and faculty members. 
"The first issue," added Dettling. "will consist of three essays by faculty members and one essay by a student. We will also include a few features articles and perhaps some book reviews." 
At the present time, Dettling is looking for any student who is in· tercsted in writing a "well thought out original essay" to be printed in the first issue. 
"Before Humanitas, there was a definite void to be filled. Scholastic is a magazine which appeals to the masses. The Observer is a newspaper. The Juggler is a literary magazine comprised of poetry. Before Humanitas, there was not· hing which appealed solely to scholarly discussion." 
Dean Loux, the main supporter of Humanitas, agreed with Dettling, noting, "We have never had anyth· 
see JOURNAL, page 4 


HPC: Student vote on senate proposal will be postponed 
By SCOIT BEARBY 
Assistant News Editor 
The Hall Presidents' Council agreed to postpone a vote on an amendment which would disband the current Student Senate at a spe­cial meeting called last night. 
The council agreed by more than a 2/3 majority to delay the vote until Noy. 1 2 in order to give the proposed amendment a closer look before deciding whether to move the issue to a student vote. 
Badin Hall President Judith Windhorst brought up the idea of postponing the vote after disagree­ment among the body continued on whether the senate should be kept as a government body. She called postponing the issue as "thinking responsibly," since last night's meeting was the first time ~he HPC had the concrete proposal in front of them. 
The HPC did vote last week to pass the idea ofab<)lishing the senate on to the student body, but their amendment was not valid according to Student Government Parliamen­tarian Brian Holst and Hall Presi­dents' Council Chairman Kevin Howard. 
The HPC voted to postpone the 

60s radical Hoffman speaks here tomorrow 
ByMARK PANKOWSKI 
Assistant News Editor 
Abbie Hoffman, the 60s radical 
who was one of the "Chicago 
Seven," who has been arrested 4 1 
times, and who once mailed 3,000 

marijuana cigarettes to randomly . selected people, is coming to Notre Dame tomorrow. Hoffman, scheduled to lecture at the Center for Social Concerns at 
12:30 p.m. and Washington Hall at 8 p.m., "was right in the middle of it" during the turbulent 60s, said Mike Vore, Student Activities Board Ideas and Issues chairman. 
"Hoffman was a big part of it. He 
was going through it all," Vore 
added. 

Hoffman, who is lecturing as part .of the Future Perspectives Series, 
will speak on the "parallels between 
student activism in the 60s and the 
80s," said Vorc. 
He added Hoffman definitely will 
address how students today arc not 
as active as their 60s counterparts. 
"The idea for bringing Hoffman is 
to look back at the 60s and sec what 
forces were inBucnciog students 
and people then," Vore explained. 
"Those students of the 60s arc in 
power now. They are in positions to 
change things," he said, adding, 
"(Hoffman's lecture) will give us a 
chance to see the changes that arc 
coming and changes that will OC· 
cur." 
Tickets for Hoffman's Washington Hall lecture are free and will be dis· tributcd from noon until 4 p.m. today at Rock du Lac. 
issue until after the Campus Life Council, which along with the HPC would obtain senate respon­sibilities, meets tomorrow. Accord­ing to Windhorst, this would give the HPC the opportunity to see how open the CLC members are to-stu· dent issues and generally to as..o;es.-; the situation. 
The CLC is composed ofstudents, rectors and faculty. 
During the delay until the final vote, further work will be done on the proposed amendment to the constitution in order to correct any potential problems. Also, the HPC chairman and Carroll Hall President Steve Kern l'ncouraged the hall presidents to represent their hall constituents and to ask them whet­her or not they want the senate to remain in existence. 
In addition, Brecn-Phillips Presi­dent Kathy McCarthy called for those in favor of keeping the senate to make their positions known. Off· Campus representative Tom McDonald agreed those in favor of keeping the senate must defend their position. 
Before deciding to delay a vote, the HPC discussed the proposed 
see HPC, page 4 
Beginning his activism in the early 
60s, Hoffman_ sent the marijuanna 
cigarettes to New Yorkers in 1967. 
That was not his only stunt, 
however, that attracted national 
media attention that year. 
In April 1967, Hoffman and 
several others threw dollar hills 

onto the floor ofthe New York Stock 
Exchange and watched the chaos as 
traders scrambled to pick up the 
ca'ih. And in October of that year, 
during a huge anti-Vietnam War 
demonstration in Washington, D.C., 
he led an effort to surround the Pen· 
tagon and levitate it. 
An incident occurring in August 

of 1968 was not an antic, however. 
Hoffman and other "Yippies" con· 

fronted police during a peaceful 
march in Chicago to protest the 
Democratic National Convention. 
As a national television audience 

watched, the police brutally beat the 
marchers, arresting several in the 
process. 
But Hoffman was destined to gain most of his notoriety from another incident in 1969, when he and seven others were Indicted on charges of conspiracy and crossing state lines to incite a riot. 
After one defendant's case was separated from the others, those left became known a<; the "Chicago Seven." Famous nationwide, they called dozens ofw_itnesses an. .J•lt... protested in bizarre ways, !::~luding Hoffman's drcssl.1g in judMc's robes on one occassion. 
Although convicted, Hoffman 
see HOFFMAN, page 4 


~--------------·­
The Observer Tuesday, November 5, 1985 -page 2 


In Brief 

Performers in a star-studded gala in New York raised S1.3 million for AIDS research in an East Coast echo ofa September show in California. The generally upbeat gala, "Best of the Best," included a ragtime ballet with Mikhail Baryshnikov, songs by Marilyn Horne, Carol Burnett, Melissa Manchester, Peter Allen, Victor Borge, the Harlem Boys' Choir and New York Gay Men's Choir, and humor by Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin. The California show, which featured Elizabeth Taylor, Burt Reynolds, Shirley Mac Laine, and former first lady Betty Ford, raised $1 million to fight the disease. -AP 
Prince Albert ofMonaco said during his Califor­nia visit that he's been aware ofhis public responsibilities since age 2 but has been able to avoid the glare ofpublicity that has dogged his sisters Caroline and Stephanie. "A lot of times you just don't want to go out," said the U.S.-educated 27-year-old son of Prince Rainier III and the late Princess Grace. "You face a very busy schedule. It's very taxing." But he said that unlike his sisters, he has no trouble with people chasing him in public. -AP · 
After waiting years for White Castle to come to town, Douglass Redmond waited out the last 12 hours in the cold so he could be the new restaurant's first customer Monday -with an order for 1,550 ofthe chain's small, square hamburgers. "I've always complained that there wasn't one in Joliet," said Redmond, 24, shivering beneath his blue-and-white White Castle cap as he waited for the restaurant to open. "I figure this is a way of showing that people inJoliet want one." Redmond began his vigil at 9 p.m. Sunday. He spent the night on a cot equipped with a sleeping bag and two blankets. Redmond, a bank teller, was ordering burgers for him~elf and co-workers at the First National Bank ofJoliet's three sites. "A hundred are for me," said Redmond, who planned to freeze most of his share ofthe burgers. -AP 
Of Interest 

The Third World in terms of Biblical 
principles will be the topic of a lecture by Verghese Chirayath, sociology professor atjohn Carroll University, tonight at 7:30 in Car­roll Hall. Chirayath's lecture, titled "Human Migration: Con­troversies and Catholic Teachings," is sponsored by Saint Mary's Justice Education Office.-The Obseroer 
The Oxfam fast at Saint Mary's will occur again this year, Thursday, Nov. 21. Signups are all this week in the Dining Hall and in 161 Regina (Campus Ministry). Participants do not eat in SAGA during this day and the dining hall will donate money to the World Hunger Coalition.-The Obseroer 
Senior sign-ups for the Nov. 15 Chicago trip to to Rush Street will be tonight from 6 to 8 p.m. in LaFortune. Cost is S10.-The Obseroer 
The Second City comedy troupe will per­form Friday, Nov. 7 at Washington Hall. Shows are at 7 and 9 p.m. Tickets are available at the Record Store for $4. This event is sponsored by the Student Activities Board. -The Obseroer 


Weather 

"The city that rocks" will sport partly cloudy skies with the high in the lower . 50s today. Clearing with the low in the middle 30s tonight. Mostly sunny tomorrow with the high in the upper 50s. -AP 

==-=Ih--Ob~


e= -~ serYer_--= 
Design Editor..............................Tom Small 
Design Assistant ..............Tracy Schlndele 
Typesetters ...................... Suzanne Hammer 
Mary Ellen Harrington News Editor........................ Mary Heilmann Copy Editor .......................Ann Kaltenbach Sports Copy Editor ................. Marty Burns ViewpoinrCopyEditor..........Sue Dunbar Viewpoint Layout.................... Miriam Hill Daily Quotes...........................Tom Darrow 

The Observer ( l'SPS W9 l-~000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods The Observer is published by the studentsofthe l'niversity of Notre Dame and Saini Mary's Coll<:g<:. Subscriptions may be purchastd for SW per year ( SlU per s<:mester) by writing The Observer, P 0 Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
~M<;6 

The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are 
r~St"rv~d. 

Typists ........................................ Colleen Foy 
Maura McKeever Pbotograp~................... Hector Moreno Accent Copy Editor.............. Eric Bergamo Accent Layout.......................... Kathy Webb ND Day Editor......................... Doug Hasler SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Ad Design ............................ Sharon Emmite 
Mary Carol Creadon 


College students must tune in to news from outside world 
Look beyond the current anarchy in student govern­ment, the roller-coaster football season and the varying degrees ofethanol odor. 
In our own little world, the boundaries of our two campuses, these issues reach monumental prop<;>rtions at times. These events are important and should be dealt with, but beyond the domain of the ethanol odor there lies another dimension, the "real" world with its own set ofissues and problems. 
South Bend's Channel 16 promotes their newscast by asking the question "How will you know what happens today?" They offer their newscast as a prime source to answer this question. 
At first, it seems silly for them to ask if we know what happened today; we are all college students, after all. Of course, we know what happened today. Or do we? 
To quote a friend ofa friend, sometimes "we are just too busy being educated to learn." The average student gets so wrapped up in the daiiy routine of tests and papers, he generally will not 
Switzerland. There is the 
possibility that a new beginning in relations far beyond 
the student government "new beginning" can be ac­
hieved. 
How aware are you, however, of the issues to be dis­cussed at the talks? Further, what stance do the two countries currently hold on the problems to be solved? On a similar subject, do you know the current status of the arms race and efforts to stop the frightening escala­tion? 
In Congress, the debate goes on concerning the na­tion's deficit and tax reform, among other things. What are the latest proposals and why has action been so let­hargic? Do you know how your congressmen stand o~ major issues? 
Don't forget, an election year is always just around the corner (in fact some state and local elections are taking place today). Are you satisfied with what your representatives are doing? 
These issues, not to mention other social and 
lion seeking full-lime staff. 
Lodging, $150/month, health 
coverage. Public Interest group 
developing courses on non­
violence and operating National 
Coalition on Television Violence 
national headquarters. In Cham­
paign next to University Illinois. 
Research. writing. office work. 
monitoring entertainment. One 
year commitment. 

._____217·384·1 
...... 
.,., Notre Dame and St. Marys 1

·-------------------------,I
I ~ ~ Starving Student 1. 1 Discount Coupon 10% OFF I 
I 14k Italian Gold and Sterling Silver II Chains, Charms, Bracelets & Rings 1 1 Students "'"tt Staff must present this Coupon or ID 11 for 10 I Off. Offer Good Through I 
November 30, 1985. 
1 Great American Jewelers I 1 University Park Mall -On The Concourse I
I I
Checks Welcome • Visa (directly in front of Browns Sporting Goods) Mastercard • American Express _ II Christmas Layaways ( 2l 9) 277 3353 

·-------------------------~ 


ScoH Bearby 
Assistant News Editor 
governmental issues here and abroad, seem to be on the back burner too often. 
The truth ofthe matter is the average college student relies on 30-second news breaks between "Cheers" and "Night Court" and simply receives bits and pieces on what he should be keeping tabs. Most simply rely on The Observer for information. We do our best to provide the most important events of the day, but even our space is limited. Hopefully we can at least whet our appetite for more information. 
What we need is to find a 
get valuable hands-on learn­ing through organizations such as student government (although in a less immature manner). just remember the "real" world. 
One more question: "How will you know what hap­pens today?" 
Thanks to you... it works... forALLOFUS Unitedway 


take the time to learn about what is going on elsewhere in the world. 
It is so easy to narrow our focus to what effects us now l'r'l" that we tend to forget or lose -----;...,jj·....~A~J track of issues which can have an enormous impact on ourselves, our nation, and our world in the long run. We can become is­olated beyond where the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's shuttle bus runs. 
For instance, very soon the first United States/Soviet Union .summit meeting since the Nixon administra­tion will be held in Geneva, few more minutes each day to catch up on the news beyond the reflection of the dome, whether it be through Ted Koppel or Time. 
Showing little concern for the issues ofthe day now can easily continue as our in­dividual worlds change in location, but not in scope. This is a dangerous situation and one which is newsworthy in itself. 
It is true we need to relax and root for a fourth football victory in a row and enjoy the happenings of college life. It also is important to 




The Observer Tuesday, November 5, 1985 -page 3 

A real hot seat 
Frank Lick, a salesman from F.M.L. Enterprises in Santa Barbara, Cal., holds a heated toilet seat that his company Is showing at the 83rd National Housewares Manufacturprs Association trade 


Senate rejects proposal 

1

which redelegates jobs 1 
I 
,1 
,1
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
Senior StaffReporter 
The Student Senart: rejected a proposal to adopt a new constitu­tion that would not include a stu­dent senate last night. 
"This is our vision of student government," said Kevin Howard, hall presidents' council chairman, referring to the proposal. 
The proposal delegates the duties of the current senate to the HPC and the Campus Life Council. 
Senator K.C. Culum was against the proposal. "The five senators are not mentioned. That's one reason I'm against this. I think this amend­ment will not be passed by the stu­dent body. I think we should kill it here." 
Junior Class President Jim 
APPhoto 
Domagalski said he agreed with Culum. "I don't think the hall presi­dents will want to do the work here. 

show in Chicago Sunday. It was one ofmore than 
All the writing of this thing has been 

50,000 products on display through Thursday for 
done in a very quick manner. I think 

inspection by more than 60,000 buyers and mer­
we should kill it right now." 

chandising executives attending the exhibition. 
Culum said he wants the senate restructured instead of disbanded. 
"Why don't we focus on restructur­ing? Why don't we get a body that works? Why don't we have elections early next year and get on with It?" 
Student Body President Bill Healy told the senate he hopes to have a referendum on the South African issue before the student body soon. "We are having discussions with 
John Dettling, Pat Baccanari and Peter Walshe. We don't want to rush it though," he said. 
Dettling and Baccanari are former members of the Committee for Responsible University Business Practices. Walshe Is the director of Notre Dame's African Program. 
In other business, Howard in­formed the senate the HPC's letter writing campaign Is falling short of hopes. 
The HPC is asking students, parents and alumni to write letters to Vice President of Student Affairs Father David Tyson to complain about the University's interpretation of the parietals policy. 
"It's not too late to do something," said cabinet member Mike Jaeger. 


~· Fri~. SabJ~ -N11t.Nt¥'1.1.1 5.~.c. Lnn.c 111!~-i;OOp.wwt. -~w 

Joint board meeting at the College highlights Observer, future events 
PEGGY PROSSER 
StaffReporter 
Members of the Observer Editorial Board were the featured speakers at the joint meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance and Programming Board last night. 
Along with explaining the structure of the Observer, the editors fielded questions from the Saint Mary's student government members. 
Editor-in-Chief Sarah Hamilton stressed the importance of Saint Mary's student involvement, saying that as a result, coverage of Saint Mary's activities would increase. 
"We are your newspaper, as well as Notre Dame's newspaper. We want to stress the importance ofpar­ticipation from Saint Mary's. People have complained that Saint Mary's doesn't get enough coverage, but we can't report the events if we don't know about them," said Hamilton. 
Tess Guarino, Saint Mary's Ex­ecutive Editor, discussed the exis­tence of the Saint Mary's Observer office, located in Haggar College Center. 
"A lot of students at Saint Mary's don't even know there's an Obser­ver office at Saint Mary's, and we want them to be aware of It," said Guarino. 
Student Body President Anne­Marie Kollman mentioned the pos­sibility of free Resource Cards from First Source Bank, for those students that had to open an account with the bank in order to be paid for their campus employment. 
Christian Life Commissioner Cath Dahle announced Apartheid Aware­ness Week, which begins Nov. 14 through Nov. 21. The week will con­sist of speakers, films and informa­tion boards placed throughout the campus. The week will end with the Oxfam Fast. 
Other Items discussed were the success of the Ride Board io Haggar College Center, questions and com­plaints about the building renova­tions In the dorms, and comments regarding the Hair and Tanning salon, opening soon in the basement ofLeMans. 
SObering


AdVice .·. 


The Observer Tuesday, November 5, 1985 -page 4 
[ 
Federal loan subsidizes 
f 

SMC dorm renovation 

These Hall Presidents' members listened to debate last night on the student referendum to dis­band the studentsenate. This was a special meeting 

r 
r By KARLA KISSMAN 
News Staff

~ 
LeMans and Holy Cross Halls at Saint Mary's are receiving much· needed renovations due to a low· interest government funded loan, ·according to Jason Lindower, Con· troller and Business Manager of the College. 
The work began over fall br:eak and will continue until its expected finish in two years, said Lindower. 
Over S4 million, he added, has been budgeted for the renovations. A low-interest college housing government loan is supplying 13 1/2 million of this proposed budget. 
Saint Mary's had to apply in order to receive this loan, Lindower said. "The competition for the loans was very tough. In fact, there was only 135 to S45 million available for the whole country," said Lindower. 
In the application process, the College had to demonstrate a need for renovation in their housing for students. Lindower said Saint Mary's had an easier time than most ap· plicants demonstrating need due to "safety reasons" and the great neces­
sity for repair. 
Lindower also noted that the 
renovations that have started are 
progressing nicely although the 
weather will remain a critical factor 
in the projected finishing dates. 
LeMans and Holy Cross Halls, 
both older dorms, have been in 
desperate need ofrepairs, according 
to Lindower. The list of planned 
renovations is, therefore, long. 
Work already in progress includes 
masonry, roof, showers and exterior 
stairway repairs. 
The masonry work is mostly ex­
terior and will continue until the 
winter weather prohibits repair, ac· 
cording to Lindower. It will begin 
again when weather permits. Roof 
repairs on LeMans will also continue 
as long as possible, he added. 
Two exterior stairways being 
repaired are on the south side of the 


Hoffman 
continuedfrom page 1 
successfully appealed the decision 
in 1972. 
In the meantime, Hoffman had 
become a celebrity. He wrote 
several books and spoke out against 
the Vietnam war, all the while being 
harassed by the FBI. 
.The FBI since has released 26,000 
pages offiles on Hoffman. 
Hoffman currently works with 
several environmental groups 
throughout the Northeast and is 
fighting against U.S. policy in Central 
America. 


Journal 
continuedfrom page 1 
ing quite like Humanitas. It is 
definitely an important publication 
for the University, especially for the 
College ofArts and Letters." 
Dettling said he and his staff had the decision oftwo different formats to use. With the first format, es­sayists would address one topic. The second format, which will be used by the journal, will have each of the writers address different issues. This, according to Dettling, will provide a much broader spectrum for the reader to enjoy. 
The first issue for Humanitas is scheduled for distribution in the beginning of December. Subsequent issues are to be released at the end of each semester in hopes that, accord· ing to Dettling,"the students will take a copy of Humanitas, toss it in their suitcases while packing for break, read it when they get home, and give. our essays some serious thought." 
/ 
east and west wings of LeMans. The stairways that are presently dead· end at the second floor will be ex· tended to the ground, Lindower said. 
He predicted Christmas as the ex· pected finishing date for one of the stairways, while the other is ex· pected to be finished by next spring. 
Five shower rooms in the northwest section of Holy Cross are being repaired and should be finished within the next 17 weeks. Also under renovation are three shower rooms in west LeMans. These should be finished in 13 weeks time, said Lindower. 

Another important renovation planned in the budget is the updat· · ing offire alarm systems and electri· cal service. Lindower · named a mid-November starting date for these projects and said work will move upward from the basement. 
Smoke detectors will be installed in all hallways and rooms, emer· gency lighting will be provided, exit signs will be imptoved, and new firedoors will be added. Lindower stressed that LeMans Hall will also see the installation offire protection sprinklers next spring. Holy Cross will see the disappearance ofthe ex· isting old-fashioned exterior fire escapes which now pose a hazard. 
A final renovation planned is the replacement of the ancient gate elevators in LeMans. Both elevators will be updated with the first being out ofservice from March 31 to July 4 and the other from July 4 to Oct. 10. 

These renovations will present some inconveniences now but are being done as quickly as possible with the students' safety in mind. 
HPC 
continuedfrom page 1 
amendment and how it deleg;.tes responsibilities previously held by the senate. If passed by the HPC and a student vote, the HPC would become responsible for approving all student government cabinet and Student Activites Board Steering Committee appointments, and bills of impeachment against various government officials. 
Pangborn President Tom Halpin said that the HPC shouldn't handle additional campus responsibilities 

********************** 
THE SAB PRESENTS 
James Bond 007 in 

FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE 
Tuesday, November 5 
7, 9:15, 11:30 pm 
Engineering Auditorium 
Proceds go to UNITED WAY Shirts and Painter's hats given out. 

SUNSHINE PRDMDTIDN PRESENTS: 

JOHN COUGAR 
·---­

MELLENCAMP 
THE SCARECROW TOUR Saturday. Nav•mb•r t&. B:DDpm Nat:r• Dam• A.C.C. All•••t:• r•••rv•dI t4.!iD 
tickets avallable at the ACC Box Office, 
area Sears, Robertson's, Elkart Truth 
J.R.'s Music Shop (La Porte), but should be concerned with hall duties. He is one of ten hall presi· dents representing nine halls which called the special meeting after maintaining the vote taken last week was done "in haste." 


Joanie Cahill, Lyons president, and Howard disagreed with Halpin's view saying the additional tasks would not take much more time. Kern also did not feel halls would be neglected. 
The HPC did agree to modify the proposed amendment in two ways and will continue to make revisions until the vote is taken. Om· budsman representative Maher Mouasher said the proposal must be looked at very closely, noting "I've spotted potential problems at a glance. Maybe there aren't any more potential problems, but there very well could be." 

Revisions made at last night's meeting include giving HPC the power to make amendments to the constitution without a student vote ifall voting members ofthe HPC are in unanimous agreement. 
They also would be able to cause the student body president to call a meeting ofthe CLC within 10 days of a request made by a majority of voting HPC members. The student body president presently has the the ability to call CLC meetings at his discretion. 

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------. 
1$1~:=$~ ~TUD~~t~~\~; j:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
I ~ I 1 Reg. $8 YoF~U!n~~~c~mAJ~E 1
r-------------------1 
!$5g~~d~NY p1~r!:w~t ! 
~------------------~

" so .,; 
YOUR FATHERS MUSTACHE 
FAMILY HAIRCUTTERS 
University Park Mall 277-3770 










Accent 
Tuesday, November 5, 1985 -page 5 
Charity lock up leads fight on cancer 

SUSAN BUCK.I..EY 
features writer 
T 
he St. Joseph's County Police 
had a difficult time tracking 
down Sharon Petro, Notre Dame's 
Assistant Athletic Director, on 
October 29. They finally arrested 
her in her ACC office, handcutled 
her. and lead her down to a waiting 
police car under the a<;tonished 
gazes of Petro's co-workers. 
When Petro arrived at the County building in downtown South Bend, she was brought before a judge who set bail at sc;oo. For­IUnately, after spending only a little more than an hour calling friends, Petro was able to secure the neces­sary money and was subsequently releao;ed. 

,..e:-Brighten the faces of the 1... • needy children this Christmas. 
a~•
--r;;w~ 

Help the Semper Fldells Club collect toys lor kids In the South Bend area t:>y giving to the Toys lor Tots program. Bring your Idle toys (or new ones you pick up when shopping lor Mom and Dad) and
I ~eposilthem in the boxes around campus. 
UC:_ ..:,uPlease give--the kids are counting on it. 
Senior Class----·· 
PARTy_ 
Monogram 

Room of A.C.C. 
$4 Cover charge 

Free food and refreshments Semi-formal attire Faculty invited 
What horrible crime did the University's assistant athletic direc­tor commit to deserve such treat­ment? Actually, she didn't break any laws, she volunteered to be ar­rested. Many other arrests similar to Petro's took place on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday oflast week. These were the days alotted for the American Cancer Society of St. Joseph's county's third annual 
Jail-a-thon. 
The procedure that was used closely resembled that used by Notre Dame Security during its "Lock up a Friend" fundraiser for United Way. A person could pledge S2S to the American Cancer Society to have a friend arrested. The friend was arrested by the county police and taken to the lobby ofthe 
Support the 



March of Dimes 
--BlllTH DEFECTS FOUNDATIONIIilillil 
county building where a fake jail was set up. A volunteer judge asked the prisoner about his job and and place ofresidence to determine the proper hail. The prisoner then sat at a phone and called as many people to pledge money to the American Cancer Society as was needed to meet bail. 
Petro rirst became involved with the American Cancer Society after she had to undergo a modified radical mastectomy. "Reach to Recovery," a group sponsored by the American Cancer Society and composed of women who have undergone mastectomies, helped her through the difficult months following the surgery. 
During that time she received chemotherapy for six months 
SPERO lets the sun shine 
ANDY BARLOW 
features writer 
E 
ngineering students: Have the 
endless hours ofequation 
manipulation got you down? Are 
you tired ofconducting the same 
experiments dad did when he 
studied engineering in college? 
Have the environmentally con­
cerned on campus become tired of 
people denying the feasibility of 
solar power as a viable energy 
source? Have you ever con­
templated doing a little scientific 
experimentation ofyour own? Ifso, 
then SPERO may be for you. 
First ofall, SPERO is not a dub .devoted to the worship offormer shifty-eyed Republican vice­presidents. SPERO, or the Solar Photovoltaic Energy Research Organization, is the brainchild of Notre Dame senior, Jon Johansen. A Holy Cross Hall resident, Johansen is a long-time supporter of the development ofsolar power as a viable energy source. 
The origins ofSPERO can be traced back to Johansen's school days where he divided the majority ofhis time between baseball and satisfying his curiosity about the 
Are you considering professional school? 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT 
Is Looking for Futu're Leaders in Public Affairs. 
Come Learn About Harvard~s Two-Year ,Waster's Program in Public Policy, l.eading to either tire M11ster in Public Policy or Citynml Regional l'lamring Degree.  
MEET WITH:  SALLY SACHAR Assistant to the Director Public Policy Program  
DATE:  Wednesday, Nov. 6, 2-3, 3-4 groups  

CONTACT: YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE 
All Students, All Majors, All Years Welcome! /oint Degree Programs Offered with Harvard's otlrer Professional Schools. Generous Cross-Registration Prit•ileges with other Schools. 
(resulting in hair loss and sickness) 
and reconstructive surgery. Petro 
thought that by participating in the jail-a-thon, she could return some 
of the support the organization had 
given to her. 

Now Petro is completely recovered from her bout with can­cer, but she has not forgotten the experience. She believes it ha~ changed her life in several ways. She is more aware ofher state of health and takes better care of herself. She has learned to do things today and not put them offuntil tomorow. She is concerned about letting people know that the best thing one can do about cancer is to detect it early and take care ofit before it becomes serious. 
"You don't have to die from 
sun's potential as a source ofpower. Johansen's achievements in baseball 
garnered more attention than did 
his research, however, and he chose to attend Notre Dame where he had been offered a baseball scholarship. 
Johansen found the Notre Dame engineering curriculum a bit dry and completely devoid ofany men­tion ofsolar research, so he began a personal quest for information on solar energy. 

~Club Corner 
' SPERO 
Acting on a tip from the head ofa major energy research firm who happened to be a Notre Dame alumnus, Johansen tracked down ProfessorJames Kohn of the Chemi­cal Engineering Department. Kohn, unbeknownst to the majority of the Notre Dame community, had been conducting experiments in solar energy on the wind-swept roofof Fitzpatrick Hall for almost l 0 years. Johansen began to assist Kohn with 
his projects, devoting an ever-cancer," she asserts. Petro believes that cancer is no longer an in­curable disease or a taboo subject not to be discussed. Petro wants Notre Dame students to know that she is glad to talk about her ex­perience with cancer and to listen to their's. Already following in the footsteps of"Reach to Recovery," she has given support and en­couragement to a co-worker whose wife hao; just had the same opera­tion. 
Last week'sJail-a-thon raised S69,000 for the American Cancer Society. The money will be used in the organization's three major divisions-research, education, and rehabilitation. Those interested in volunteering time and effort to the American Cancer Society are free to call 234-4097 for more information. 
increasing amount of time to the interpretation of information pouring in from the little cluster of sensory equipment located on the Fitzpatrick roof. 
This soon led to a conflict with his obligation to bao;eball, however, 
so Johansen surveyed his options 
and decided to relinquish the 
benefits ofhis baseball scholarship 
in order to devote more time to his 
work with Kohn. 
"!learned a lot in those days," 
saysJohansen. "I had always done a 
lot ofreading about solar power, 
hut getting hands-on experience 
with a real experiment done on 
decent equipment increased my 
understanding beyond measure." 
Realizing how few opportunities 
existed for undergraduate research, 
Johansen decided to form an or­
ganization devoted to providing 
other interested students the op­
portunity to do their own work in 
the field, and SPERO wao; born. 
SPERO officially came into t·xis­
1
tence in January l9H.3 when the 
then Student Union granted the 
club a charter and a share ofthe 
student activity fee income. With 
this money and a grant or two from 
various energy research firms, the 
1 
~
members ofSPERO began research­
,
ing in earnest the conversion of 
1
light into electridty. 
1 
1 
When was the last time you had a 1 free hand in any experiments or had 1
,
fun in the laboratory? 
,
According toJohansen, "The 
.,
opportunities for innovative under­,grad research art.• very limited here, not only by a lack offunds, but also in terms of the incredibly small amount offree time available to the students who would be interested in such work." 
The majority ofSPERO's research 
occurs in January and Febmary in 
order to avoid conflicts in the fall 
with football and other major 
events. 
Johansen maintains that SPERO is a very open-minded group and encourages any student interested in any aspect ofsolaf' research to contact the group to gain access to their experimental equipment. As Johansen said, "You can't heat research as a way to broaden your understanding of the material you learn in engineering classes. We'd like to see people take advantage of this chance." 
Any students frustrated by wres­tling with all those differential equations are welcome to give Johansen a call at 31 73 and give research a try. Maybe you'll enjoy engineering again. 





~i~~~_{)__i_Il__t________________r_ues-da-y,-No-ve-mb-er~5,_19-85~-p-age-6 
Shuttle bus riding provides unique times, people 
r 
r r 
r F 
Hordes ofSaint Mary's women pile into the bus in front of LeMans every weekend. The bus driver, affectionately known as "Jammin' Sam," eagerly welcomes them. The riders are exposed to a wide scope of the musical spectrum. Sam's musical tastes range from oldies to gospel to disco. Many consider this to be the added inspiration needed to boost spirits for an exciting evening. This music is a 
, 
well needed diversion from the South Bend radio stations that enjoy playing "Indiana
~ 
,. Motor Bus" commercials more than music. The passengers vary from agroup searching
r 
' for a good party to an SYR couple who had just r met five minutes earlier. These couples are r the best to watch. Usually it is obvious, by ob­r serving them for a couple ofminutes, whether r or not they will have a good time. Phrases like, 
r 
"Well, you looked a lot taller in your picture,"
r 
are bad omens of a long night. These are the
r 
dates that end with the "I have to go to the
r 
bathroom" excuse.
r 
r 
r 
Through rain or sleet or snow, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's shuttle bus cannot be deterred. Most of us have ridden on the "Jungle Bus." Those who haven't are missing an incredible experience. 
Kim Yurtovac 
my views 

Weekend nights are the prime time of shuttle riding. The bus is usually jam-packed. Friends, roommates and dates alike can be lost in the shuffle. By the time the bus reaches its destination, the windows are steamed and there are so many people aboard that it is im­possible to figure out which stop it is. 
The shuttle arrives at the circle to greet suited Domers grasping roses as they prepare for their dates with the Jane Does of Saint Mary's. The aroma ofPolo fills the air. One guy nonchalantly glances at the window to brush back a stray piece of hair. Then he leans over to his friend and says, "God, I hope she's not a geek. I couldn't handle another date like last week's." 
The late night ride back to Saint Mary's is quite differe.nt. Disgusted girls complain about their strange SYR dates, while happy couples make the journey together destined for the ever-popular "after parietals lobby." Either the bus has just left or it is about to leave. At this point, a frantic flagging down of the shuttle is necessary, especially if.it is the last shuttle. Occasionally, this works. One courageous Notre Dame student attempted this by jumping in front of the shuttle yelling "stop!" The good old Transpo screeched to a halt to let the group board. However, most of­ten, this kind of attempt leaves stranded, em­barrassed pedestrians. 
The weekday afternoon shuttle rides are more mellow. There are not as many riders and those who are riding are usually going to classes. Those who seldom ride during the week will undoubtedly and needlessly put a quarter in the hopper at least once. The value of quarters to college students is high. This kind of mistake can worsen an already bad day. Some ingenious travellers have found that Canadian quarters work just as well as American ones, and these people have felt the satisfaction of"beating the system." 
The shuttl<: is an ideal place to watch some very interesting people. The diverse riders from both campuses are excellent subjects. So, why not take the shuttle; when you do, make sure you say hello to Sam. 
Kim Yurtovac is a freshman at Saint Mary's and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


r 
,r 

Not wearing seat belts foolishly endangers drivers 
r 
r Nearly every day, people put themselves r into situations of great danger, facing Death r each time. Most of the time, Death fails to 
capture them, but every once in a while, he gets lucky. Every time someone gets into a car, Death is waiting. 
Wllliam Wilson guest column 
Automobiles are dangerous things. We hurtle thousands ofpounds ofmetal around at great speeds. And, unfortunately, every once in a while, one comes to a sudden stop and someone is injured or dies. 
This does not have to happen. People can save their lives, but most do not. Most people do not wear their seatbelts when they ride in a car. According to a recent study, only 19 per­cent of American adults use their seatbelts everytime they ride in or drive a car. Others admit to wearing them occasionally, but most people never do. Is there a reason for this? Why do supposedly intelligent people do somethingas foolish as not wearing a seatbelt? Before we answer this, let us look at the facts. Every year, 23,000 people die in automobile accidents. That works out to 63 r people each day. Another two-and-a-half mil­r lion people are injured each year, or ap­proximately 6,050 people each day. And here
r 
r is another important fact: using seatbelts cuts your chances ofbecoming one of those statis­r tics in half. And the odds are that everyone
, 
will be involved in at least one serious acci­r dent in his or her life. 
r 
~ 
So why do so many people choose to ignore the truth and take their chances? The excuses we hear are incredibly inane, much like those found in a third grader with a dislike for homework. Instead of "I can't find a pencil," or "My dog ate it," we get such rational 
Doonesbury 
answers as "I don't want to wrinkle my clothes," "I always forget," or"They're too un­comfortable." 
Let us be realistic. The seatbelts in today's cars are much better designed than they were five years ago. All one must do is take a few seconds to adjust them for comfort and so that one's clothes do not get wrinkled. And if you think about it, it is likely that one would rather be a little uncomfortable than dead. People look much better when they are alive and in a slightly wrinkled set of clothes than when they are dead and in perfectly pressed cloth­ing. And as for poor memory, every person must make the consciouschoice to buckle up. 
People who do wear their seatbelts for the first time usually wonder how such a flexible device which allows one to lean forward can protect them in an accident. The seatbelts are designed for some freedom of movement while the car is in normal operation. But ifthe brakes are suddenly applied, or the car stops suddenly, the seatbelt holds a person securely in his or her seat. Anyone who has ridden in an Audi with a seatbelt knows that they just need to pull on the belt too fast for it to lock up. Most American cars' belts operate on an iner­tia device which locks up the belts once the car stops or slows suddenly. 
Many people claim that they could brace themselves in an accident, and therefore they do not need to wear their seatbelts. Yet in or­der to brace yourself, you would need to be incredibly strong. A sudden stop from thirty miles per hour is roughly equivalent to taking a swan dive from a third story window. Even a crash in a parking lot can cause facial injury. If you do not believe this, try walking into a wall at five miles per hour and see ifit hurts. 
Every once in a while, we hear about those dreadful accidents where the car caught on fire or became submerged in water. People use these accidents as an excuse for not wearing their seatbelts, saying they do not 
. ' 





15N'T IT JU5T Bt.LIE.V/3ME, PERFECT; MR.. !XXJN£S­MIQ-/Af3L2 BUR.Y, TH/515 
7HEL0FT{F­/yDON'T YCXJR. /JREM15. KNOW. /AlE: 
/

HAV!3N'T8WJ JUST USC A8LET05E£ YOUR.IMA71N­HALF 711£3FlXMS. AT/aJ, MIKE-! 
/ / 
"ieVVP-_O_i_n_t______________________________________________T_u_es_d_a~y,_N_o_v_e_m_b_er_s~,_l_9_8_5~-p~a~g~e--7 
ND student in Mexico describes life after disaster 
In the aftermath ofthe two earthquakes that struck here last month, everyday life for most of Mexico City's inhabitants has returned to normal. Demolition teams and bulldozers can be seen swarming over the rubble, reducing the devastation to mere bare patches where tall building.~ once stood. 
Chris Bowler 
pen pal 

Yet, some of the 18 million people living in this crowded capital find their lives altered for years to come. More than 400,000 Mexicans remain homeless and face the prospect of searching for low-cost tenements in a city with chronic housing shonages. 
Thousands demonstrated in front of the President's Los Pinos residence last week demanding more government assistance. With their banners and signs held high, they claimed the government has not been doing t·nou¢1 for the homeless and the hungry. 
journalists and those of the international rescue missions point to the government's mishandling of the relief efforts. Many claim correctly that the Mexican government's role often has hampered rather than aided the rescue operations. Lives were unnecessarily lost, they say. 
One frustrated rescue worker pleaded desperately with his Mexican counterparts in order to dig out buried survivors. Reportedly, the Mexican officials were anxious to begin demolition instead of saving lives out of the fear of epidemics from already-decaying bodies. 
Another report detailed·the activities ofone government rescue official. After loading his bus with medical supplies, clothing and food, he drove to his house and unloaded the supplies for personal profit later. Rescuers assert that needed supplies never reached their intended destinations. Some are asking why, yet the government isn't saying anyth· ing. 
The water shortage because of broken pipelines in the city has strained the province of Xochimilco, Mexico's "Venice," where channels feed water to lush agricultural areas and to canals designed for tourists' boating pleasures. Last week, farmers complained that precious water left in Xochimilco had been diverted to where the tourists are instead of the crops. The low water level, they continue, threatens the survival of this year's harvest. It is another example of administrative mis­management at its peak. 
The topic that has sparked the most con· troversy Is the government's construction of public buildings that fdl or sustained heavy damage. The fact that the majority of the devastated buildings were government· constructed raises questions about the in­tegrity of building inspectors and the possibility ofcorrupt government contracters taking short cuts around the building codes. 
The administration of President Miguel de Ia Madrid has promised investigation and punishments, if necessary, but Mexicans aren't holding their breath. 
In the meantime, Mexico continues to dig out and rebuild. Every tragedy has its miracles and the debacle here is no exception. The ac-




P.O. Box Q 
hereby state that we do exist. Although we 
would be the first to question our existence in 
this city of"camels, pyramids and a whole lot 
more," we prefer to follow Descarte's 
philosophy and conclude that we think, 
therefore, we arc (in Cairo). 
The Cairo program consists offour students 
in this its virgin year. Hopefully, we are on 
record as registered students and look for­
ward to confirmation of this through The Ob­
server's correction column. 
Rollin Hughes Carlos Alvarez Clarice Keizer johnjaspers 

Basketball team loses due to lack of tickets 
DearEditor: 
Notre Dame constantly emphasizes throug­hout its literature the mystique· of its spons programs. One brochure proudly tells of the time when NBC gave the student body the most valuable player award for its outstanding enthusiasm during the broadcast ofone ofthe Notre Dame basketball games. 
Too bad not all the students will get to give the team their support this year. 
The whole distribution ofbasketball tickets was a farce. Even as I stood in line, it was an­nounced that all people holdingfour ticket ap­plications or less would be able to receive tickets. This proved wrong. I stepped up to the window, but managed only to get one ticket book for myself and two friends. I walked out of the ACC furious, but luckier than most. 
My· problem is not with the continued promises of ticket availability. Rather, it is with the failure of the administration to provide for the student body, even though the team has been ranked in the top 20 by several major publications. 
Several problems need to be addressed regarding this situation. 
The administration claims there never was such a great interest in the past in basketball; therefore, there was no way of knowing that the demand this year would be so heavy. True, but tickets always should be reserved for stu­dents first. Whatever is (eft over could then be sold. 
After all, who is it who stands the whole game cheering? Certainly not the alumf1i or the citizens ofSouth Bend. It is the students. 
for the amount oftuition we pay, we should be allowed tickets before alumni. Granted, 
many give large donations; however, our 
J 11,000 dollar a year "donation" also is worth 
something. The primary task ofany university 
is to devote itselfto undergraduate education. 
This includes the right ofstudents to see their 
own team play. 
The lottery system described to distribute 
any extra tickets is not adequate. People at the 
front of the line when the tickets ran out 
should be given first preference during the 
distribution ofany extra tickets; however, it is 
doubtful that a significant number of tickets 
even will be available. 
This whole situation has put a damper on 
the spirit of a large number of freshmen. The 
real loser, however, is the basketball program. 
DianneA. Zipprlch Walsh Hall 


Recall effort successful despite its disbanding 
DearEditor: 
The original aim ofthe recall effort was eit· 
her to provoke the current leadership into 
active representation or to find alternative 
leadership that would actively represent the 
student voice. Our efforts have not failed. We 
have achieved our goal. The current leader­
ship has vowed to actively and aggressively 
represent the student view. 
Through our efforts, the current govern· ment has sat up and listened. They have given much of their time to meeting and discussing creative ways of representation. We feel that the students who supported the recall effort have shown that they do have a voice. We will continue to have a voice, and we feel tile best means is through the current leadership. Active representation can only come about with the creative concern ofall students, with many voices channeled through an effective leader. 
With student activism as a driving force, the current student government can be the ef. fective leaders we need. Healy and Lawrence have already sat down with us to plan effective means of protest. With this idea in mind, we have decided to disband the current recall et~ fort. However, to continue active student representation, we urge that everyone vote in the referendum on Tuesday. The student senate is a vital voice in student government. It is the only truly representative body com­prtsed solely ofstudents that we have. We can­not compromise this voice. To vote in favor of 
.~The Observer~­
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the policies of the admmtstratton of etther tnsttlutton The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as pos· stble. Unstgned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of a majOfity of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes. letters and the lnstde Column present the vtews of their authors. Column space is avatlable to all members of the community and the free expresston of varying opinions on campus, through fetters. IS encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief..... . ........... Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor.. .. ................... Amy Stephan News Editor.... .. .. ... . . .. .. ... ....... . ......... Frank Lipo News Editor.. .. ....................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino 
Sports Editor. .  .. ..................Jeff Blumb  
Accent Editor........  .. .Mary Healy  
Viewpoint Editor.  .. Joe Murphy  
Photography Editor.  . ........ Peter C. Laches  

counts of buried inhabitants surviving days 
after the quakes, such as the new-born infants 
pulled from the wreckage of juarez hospital 
inspires hope amid so much destruction. 
The way in which the world responded to 
Mexico's need proves that international 
cooperation can overcome political and 
economic differences between nations. 
Truly the Mexican people demonstrated their courage and unity during this crisis. They are the heroes. Like all stories, however, this one has its villains. 
Those who used their positions or wealth to realize their own personal gain often go un­punished. They must be implicated. The fol­lowing weeks will reflect the true efforts of the government to paint a different picture in this regard. Already mistakes have been made that have worsened the effects of this natural disaster. The obligation of the government Is to make sure that history will not be repeated. 
Chris Bowler Is a junior in tbe College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame and Is en­rolled In the Mexico Cityprogram. 
disbanding the senate would be to vote away our voice in student government. Please vote "no" on Tuesday in order to preserve our voice. 
The recall effort was comprised not only of us, but of the over 800 people who signed the petition. Since 800 people cannot effectively decide which direction to proceed, we feel this to be the best recourse. The issue is-not dead. Our fight will continue, albeit trans· formed. Feel free to call on us as we pledge to further voice legititimate student concern. 
We do not mean to ignore the students who did sign in hope fot" a recall. Ifyou feel strongly enough, again, please call on us and we will reconsider our position. 
Thank you for your support and continued efforts to push for effective student govern­ment. 
Michael Vore A.M.Ftnch Edgardo Tenrelro KimRoerlg Edward E. AugustineJr. Susan Y ad/on 



Viewpoint Policy 
• 
The Observer accepts letters to the editor at the above address. All letters receivc·d become the property of The Ob­server. Letters must be typed, no longer than 2<;0 words and signed by the author. 

• 
Commentaries appearing in The Obser­ver do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofThe Observer. 

• 
Guest <:olumns may not respond directly to previous commentaries appear­ing in The Observer and may not exceed -:"00 words. 

• 
The Observer encourages commen­tarie~ from all members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 



Senator points to CLC and its shortcomings 
DearEditor: 
I would like to clear up the confusion about 
the Campus Life Council that has clouded the 
issue ofdisbanding the Student Senate. 
First, the CLC cannot serve as a voice of the 
student body because it is not designed to do 
so. The composition of the CLC is eight stu· 
dents, six rectors and two faculty members. 
The students do not even have a majority of 
the sc:ats. Do rectors or faculty members 
express the "legitimate" voice ofthe students? 
Second, the CLC is far less accessible than is the senate. Student governemnt's constitution states clearly that the senate will meet once a week during the school year. This enables any student to bring an issue that concerns him while it still affects him. However, the CLC, which ha.~ met less than ten times in the last four years, does not have any such provision, and there is no reason to assume that it will make one. 
Finally, the proponents of the disbandment state that anything the senate does needs the approval of the CLC. This is simply not true. The CLC does not approve delegations sent to the trustees or approve cabinet positions. It does not watch over the funds of the student body or question the prerogatives of the stu· dent leaders; rather, the senate performs these needed functions. 
Moreover, why should we stop at just dis· handing the Senate? We should disband the CLC, too. Anything it approves can be vetoed by Father Tyson and that falls In the line with the prevailing logic: if you cannot have your way, you should quit. 
I hope that the CLC is clearer now, and that you realize that the CLC is not the panacea that has been described. 
K.C. Culum Student senator 


ND students in Egypt confirm their existence 
DearEditor: 
According to a September Observer article titled, "Camels and pyramids · A Notre Dame Tradition,'' there exist no students in the Cairo program right now. 
We, the four Notre Dame students presently studying in the Cairo program, 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ... .... Davtd Stephenttch Controller .... William J. H1ghducheck Advertising Manager .. .. J1m Hagan Systems Manager Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 
,-. 
The Observer Tuesday, November 5, 1985 -page 8 




Sports Briefs 
The ND Squash Club placed two members at the St. Louis-Michelob Open last weekend. Club president William Mapot­her finished first in the "D" singles competition, while vice­president Chaitanya Panchal played in the "A" division. In doubles action, the Mapother-Panchal duo lost a match in "C" division play.­
The Observer 

Off-Campus basketball will be meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. Anyone interested in playing should attend. For more information call Grant Gailius at 234-2275.-The Observer 
The ND varsity-lacrosse team will be meeting 
tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. in the Football Auditorium of the ACC. For more information call Coach Rich O'Leary at 239-5108.-The Obser­ver 
Off-Campus hockey team will be meeting 
tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Lounge. Anyone interested should attend. For more information call Ed Sullivan at 272-2454 or Tim Connors at 288-5484. 
An NVA weight training workshop will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the Rockne Weight Room. Gary Wei!, strength and conditioning coach, will be on hand to demonstrate proper techniques. For more information call the NVA office.-The Observer 
The ND/SMC ski teamwillholdameetingforSMC members only tonight at 7 p.m. in the Lobby of LeMans Hall. For more information call Ann Ratledge at 277-2232 or Sheila Smiggens at 272-4273. -The Observer 
ND Water Polo Club members who are to take part in the dedication ofthe new natatorium are to meet tomorrow at 7 
p.m. at the natatorium. For more information call Tom O'Reilly at 283-3588.-The Observer 
Stepan Center court time is available upon re­quest. Applications should be taken to the Student Activities Office on the first floor ofLaFortune by tomorrow. -The Observer 
NVA interhall basketball rosters must be sub­mitted to the NVA office in the ACC by tomorrow. There is a $25 entry fee for men's teams and a $20 entryfee for women's teams. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
NVA Grad and Club basketball rosters must 
be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by tomorrow. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
NVA interhall hockey rosters must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by tomorrow. There is a team entry fee of $35 to be submitted with a roster. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
Sally Derengoski, Assistant Director of NVA, will be the guest tonight on "Speaking ofSports" when it airs at 10 p.m. on WVFI, AM-64. Listeners may call in with questions and comments by calling host Chuck Freeby at 239-6400. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 10 
NFL 

standings 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE Eaat w L T Pet. PF PA Dallas 6 3 0 .667 207 146 
N.Y. Giants 6 3 0 .667 203 151 
Washington 5 4 0 .558 158 168 Philadelphia 4 5 0 .444 138 145 St. Louis 4 5 0 .444 186 216 
Central Chicago 9 0 01.000 255 124 Minnesota 0 .556 183 180
5 '4 
Detrc>t 5 4 0 .556 170 196 
Green Bay 3 6 0 .333 164 216 
Tampa Bay 0 9 0 .000 184 272 
Weal 
L.A. Rams 8 1 0 .889 191 127 Sen Francisco 5 4 0 .556 228 167 New Orleans 3 6 0 .333 173 235 Atlanta 8 0 .111 171 284 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE Eaat w L T Pet. PF PA 
N.Y. Jets 
7 2 0 .778 208 135 New England 
6 3 0 .667 173 156 Miam1 
5 4 0 .556 220 194 Indianapolis 3 6 0 .333 172 204 Buffalo 
8 0 .ttl 121 216 
Cantral 
Cleveland 4 5 0 .444 150 132 Cincinnati 4 5 0 .444 260 278 Pittsburgh 4 5 0 .444 183 153 Houston 4 5 0 .444 162 185 
WMt Denver 6 3 0 .667 219 181 
L.A. Raiders 6 3 0 .667 196 187 Seattle 5 4 0 .556 221 202 San Diego 4 5 0 .444 220 231 Kansas City 3 6 0 .333 171 204 
Monday'• Reeulta 
St. Louts2t, Dallas 10 

The Ohscrt't'Y "'\orrc.· l>..tmt· utfitt: ltH.Jit:d un ttw tlurd.tlu~tr of lJiortunt· "tudt:nt ( enler.•H.(. t:pt... l IJ"''Ific:d Jlh t'rl 1"1111~ trnm l) J. Ill Unld • r Ill \1ondJ.\ thn )U~h I ruJJ\ I bet Jhsern•r '-~.tint \1.tn .., utfu. t: lot Jtt·d t 111 tht: tl11rd fltH 1r t If Jl..t~gJf ( ollt·~t· ( C."lllt:f Ju.t·ph tiJ""'Ifit·d, frrllll 12 -\1) p 01 Urltll ~ p nl \fnn dJ\ though f ru.J..n I k..tdluH: ftlf nc\1 dJ\ tJJ,... IIit:d.. ,, ~ rIll \II tiJ,..Ifit·lf, mu... t ht· prt:p.tld t:ltlll'r 111 pt·r-..un nr 11\ m.tll < h..trgt: I' It) t u1t-. pc:r fl\t: t h.trJt




Classifieds 
ItT' l'fdJ~ 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8817 
TYPING 277-41045 FREE PICKUP AND DEUVERY 
$1Q-$360 WEEKLY/UP MAIUNQ CIR­CULARII NO QUOTAS! SINCERELY INTERUTED RUSH SELF­ADDRESSED ENVELOPE: SUCCESS, PO BOX 470CEG, WOODSTOCK, IL 
60088. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MAl. COKER, 233-7009. 
THE MAIL CAMPAIGH: RESUMUAHD COVER LETTER. PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAJIIEER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. NOVEMBER 5 -6:30 P.M., 118 NIEUWU.ND SCIENCE HALL REPEATED NOVEM­BER&. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. 15 YEARS EXP. CALL 287­5162. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST N.D. 10 HOLDER WITH 10, IN­DIANA DRIVER'S LICENSE AND LOTS OF STUFF ESSENTIAL TO MY LIFE!!! IF YOU FIND THIS PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE CALL MARY TIMM (the name on all my stuff) AT 272-0811 OR LEAVE AT THE ARCHITECTURE OFFICE. 
Found in Engineering library: Caaio Scientific Calculator. Call 1088 
LOST -ONE GOLD LOOP EARRING ABOUT 6 WEEKS AGO SOMEWHERE BETWEEN PANGBORN AND REGINA. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 284-4006. 
··························································· 
FOUND: 1 PSYCH 21 lA TEXTBOOK. YOUR BOOK HAS 2 PLAYING CARDS FOR BOOKMARKERS; MINE DOESN'T. CALL JOE XI 544 SO WE CAN TRADE. 
FOUND: Gold. kind of paisley bracelet on the FLOOR in South Dining Hall. I like it, but if you want it back, call Mary'Bath288­5577. 
The Irish STOMPED Navy, but where wao I? The dining hall had steak, but where was I? Ploase help me find myaelf and my wallet w/1.0. Lost on Halloween. between 'brar AND Pangborn Cal Jon Liu X 2385, and I'll give you a ride on my 
beachcrui-
FOUND: Silver Bracelet Friday Night in Pangborn. CaJI28~4238 to identify. 

LOST LOST LOST My Girlfriend's Cl818 Ring somewhere on Greenfield before Navy game. Black Onyx from Averett Col­lege '88. Please call Ray at 288-6347 to save my life. 
If you "borrowed" 2 tapes from 7th. floor 
P.E. Friday night, please leave them at room 71 7(can remain anonymous). If they really mean that much to you, I'll make copies--they belong to an aerobics teac­her!! thanks! 
FOUND: WOMAN'S WRIST WATCH ON DANCE FLOOR OF SENIOR BAR. CALL TOM AT -3556 TO IDENTIFY AND CLAIM. 
FOR RENT 

........... ······················ ................ ········• RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR CITY/COLLEGATE RENTALS INC.,2597661 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED IM­MEDIATELY.NOTRE DAME APTS.CHEAP.CALLALICE 287-7657. 
WANTED 

RIDE/RIDERS NEEDED TO SYRACUSE 1 1/1 5-17 CALL KELLY 4241 
DRUMMER NEEDED for SHENANIGANS, N.D.'s swing choir. call 
23~5896 
NEED RIDERS TO LORA$ COLLEGE. LEAVING 11-8 AND RETURNING 11-10. CALL DENNY AT 1787. 
FOR SALE 

LSU GA'a AVAILABLE! LSU GA'a A V AILABLEII I have over twenty LSU GA tickets for sale to anyone who wants them. They are great seats but are going fast!! II you need any of these tickets call 3828 sometime soon. Any tickets that aren't bought here at NO are to be sold to a hoard of Rabid TIGER Fana!! 
Studying for a German reading exam? Berlitz tapes AND booka -$30. Used "once" AND. I p818ed!! Call 232-5230 
eves. 
1978 Datsun210, 43,000 miles, auto. transm., excellent condition, $2295,-272­9383 
Canon AE-1 35mm camera, hardly used. Call Paul277-391 2 
TICKETS 

Far Sale: 1 Mias. & LSU student ticket. Best Offer. 284-4432. 
I NEED MISS GAa.272-6306 
PENN ITATE TIX NEEDED CALL 1504 
I NEED 2 MISS GA'S OR STUDENT TIX'S. PLEASE CALL BILL-3467 
Need 2 Mias. GA's. Nick 3662 
PENN ITATE TIX NEEDED CALL 1504 
I NEED 2 MISS GA'S OR STUDENT TlX'S. PLEASE CALL BILL-3467 
Need 2'Mias. GA's. Nick 3662 
Need 4 GA's for Miss. Call Jane at3890 
NEED MISS. TIX-6, FEMALE STDNT ORGA-TOM 288-4753AFTER 11PM­
I NEED MISS. TIX MIKE 1476 
HELP!!Desperately need 4 GA's and 1ST tix tor Mississippi and LSU. can Patty at 284-4333 after 1 1 pm 
HEY, OVER HERE 2 STUDENT MISSISSIPPI TICKETS FOR SALE WHADDAYA THINK OF THAT? 234-7412 JEREMY OR JOHN 
MISS GAa FOR 8ALE.272-6306 
NEED 4 STUD. OR GA TIX FOR MISS. CHRIS 272-2466 
FOR BALE: 2 GA TIX FOR MISS. AND LSU GAMES. CALL 233-2163 OR 234­
5778. 
FOR BALE -One GA to the Mississippi game. Call 4526 
FOR BALE: STUDENT TICKET TO MII­IIISIPPI GAME AND TO LSU GAMEII MUST IELLII 272-3764 DIANE 
AHOY MATE! I LIKED HOW OUR CREW WAILED ON THE SEAMEN. SELL YOUR OLE MISS GA TO CAPTN. BLIGH X 1024 AND HE WON'T MAKE YOU WALK THE PLANK! 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 LSU GA'S­WILL PAY TOP $$1CALL JOHN AFTER 11PMAT4601. 
FOR BALE: 2 MISS. TIX. CALL (415) 368-1181 AFTER 6 CALIF. TIME­
PERSONALS 
w;ii,~~i i;;~·~~;,~~·;; ii;~it;,~~:··~~:~~ 
boats becalmed on seas of boredom, and those are deadly. 
-Richard Bach, Tha Bridge Acroaa Forev• 
Hey you, Thanks lor the flower! Pink can now be amongst my favorite colors. me 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER AND LI­QUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Hey you (agatn), Just want to tell you I have a smile on my lace. me 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? 
Call 234-0363. 24-hr. hoHtne, counseling 
AND free pregnancy tests. 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
Post-Graduate Serv~ce 
COUNSELING ASSOCIATE 
PROGRAM 
Women's Care Center 
IF YOU ARE CONCERNED ABOUT 
WOMEH WHO ARE EXPERIENCING A 
PROBLEM PREGNANCY, THE 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER HAl A 
PROGRAM THAT MAY BE OF INTER­
EST TO YOU. WE ARE OPPOSED TO 
ABORTION AND WANT TO HELP THE 
WOMAN FACING A PROBLEM PREG­
NANCY WITH LIFE-lAVING AL­
TERNATIVES BY OFFERING HER THE 
LOVE AND SUPPORT SHE MAY NEED 
TO CARRY HER CHILD TO TERM. AND 
WE NEED YOUR HELP! THE COUNSEL­
ING ASSOCIATE PROGRAM 18 OF­
FERED TO GRADUATES INTERESTED 
IN COUNSEUNQ OR SOCIAL WORK, 
AND ABLE TO WORK AT THE 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER ON A FULL· 
TIME, VOLUNTEER BAlli. FOR MORE 
INFORMATION, CALL THE CENTER 
AT 23oHI303. 

THINK STY! 
THINK STY! 
THINK STY! 
EARN $$$ FOR ALL THOSE BOOKS YOU DIDN'T READ!! PANDORA'S WIU BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M-F 1 1-4. OR WE CAN HELP YOU FIND A USED BOOK FOR A CLASS. WE'RE OPEN M­F 11-6, SATANDSUN IQ-5. PANDORA'S IS OPPOSITE CORBY'S X 937 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
The word is starting to get out: The Direc­tor is running around with his assistant!! hope it's not too cold this weekend be­cause I'd really like to see you sweat!! want a dimmer switch in our tenl! Thanks tor the best 2 weeks I've had at this schOol! Love, F. 
Musclemen, womanizer.male prostitute STEVE HARVEY turns 19 today. !!!HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! 
EARN $$$ FOR ALL THOSE BOOKS YOU DIDN'T READ!! PANDORA'S WILL BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M-F 11-4. OR WE CAN HELP YOU FIND A USED BOOK FOR A CLASS. WE'RE OPEN M­F 11-6, SATANDSUN IQ-5. PANDORA'S IS OPPOSITE CORBY'S X 937 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
Remember: BLACK ANU WHITE ALL NIGHT? IMPORTED? PAINT THE TOWN RED? FASHION VICTIMII!! A BEAUX ART BALL Nov. 15, 1985 
THE MAIL CAMPAIGN: REIUMU AND COVER LETTERS. PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. NOVEMBER 5 -6:30 p.m., 118 NIEUWU.ND .CIENCE HALL REPEATED NOVEMBER 6. 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE AT 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours: Monday­Thursday 5pm-t2pm; Friday 5pm-2am; Saturday 3pm-1 am and Sunday 4pm­10pm. 
C.P.R. S.nlor8 AND Grad •tudanta In C.S.­Math-EE-IIavlc Langu~~g~~ anticipating lull-time employment within the next y•r needed lor market .-ch protect In Wllmette,IL on Nov. 91arone AND one half hour locue group. $85 relmburaament. call Mra. Daan collect 312-256-7744. 
CHRIS-GET A CLUE. 
WANTED-TWO TICKET STUBS (IN EX­CELLENT CONDITION) OR A FULL T!CKET FROM THE PURDUE VS NOTRE DAME GAME. CALL 255-7103 AFTER 5PM. 
HAVE A PROBLEM? ST..JUDE CAN HELP 
To my SMC admirer: THANKS! Now that you have my attention, when do I get to meetyou?JH 
Desperately need season B-BaJI tix. Will pay$$$$$ II you will help call Dan 3250 
Conservatism is a deadly disease. For· tunately, Carolyn, we have the cure. 
Shaton on Creative 4ssertiveneBB: "So I just walked to the front of the line and said, 'I'm sorry, but this just can't wait.' And it worked! 1 went next." 
Basically, Maureen, the guys here are NOT here to date you. 
A-neeeee-ta: I KNEW you were cool. 
Foreign men are easy. 
Mal• ce aontl• lemmM amerlcaii'IM qui aont IM plua lacllea. . . )e voue jure. 
Yo D,'Sup D? I RECKON I didnl have an excellent weekend. The hayloft and the Monte rap were key. Cider lor the house, on you. Te you know what. Hips 
FARLEY, CONGRATS ON YOUR VIC­TORY! GOOD LUCK NEXT SUNDAY, ESPECIALLY YOU NO. 60. LOVE, YOUR FAVORITE LYONITE. THE BAT­TERED FROSH. P.S. COLLEEN THANKS FOR THE TRIP!! 
THANKS MARK FOR A GREAT PET STORE!! 
On behaH of the Antmalo in the PET STORE. thanks for ev&fyone's coopera­tion.We hope you enjoyed the eventng.lt proved that we CAN have a wild time and still stay within the rules.Remember us when you plan your future aoctaJ events. We want to be a part of every at­tempt to show the admm1atration that no matter how hard they try, they can't stop the students from having tun.-First Floor Keenan 
WILL THE BASQUE LOBSTER BECOME LOBSTER BISQUE?!? WHO KNOWS,IT'S UP TO JOE 
UNITED WAY-SAB ROCK-A-LIKE IS COMING' THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 14th 
Just an old-lash ion boy looktng for an old­lash toned girl to keep me warm...GO GATOR$. 
LYON'S HALL WISHES TO EXTEND ITS DEEPEST SYMPATHY TO JAMES AND DIANA NAUGHTON, FOR 21 YEARS AGO TODAY THEY CONCEIVED THEIR DAUGHTER JENIFER, LIVING PROOF THAT NATURAL FAMILY PLANNING DOES NOT WORK! 
ROCK-A-LIKE! ROCK-A-LIKE! INFORMATIONAL MEETING FOR ANYONE INTERESTED IN ENTERING AN ACT ON WEDNESDAY. NOV. 6, AT 8:00P.M. IN THE LITTLE THEATRE OF LAFORTUNE. OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STU­DENTS. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING J.C. WHAT YOU RESIST PERSISTS' 
TO THE ANIMAL WHO STOLE JIM MORRISON FROM THE PET STORE. CALLJBMCAT3238. NOQUESASKED. NO VENGEANCE YET. 
NO'S FIRST NEW ORLEANS CLUB WILL HAVE AN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING ON THURSDAY NOV. 7 AT 8:00PiliN THE NEW ORLEANS ROOM OF LAFORTUNE. ANYONE 18 INVITED TO ATTEND. 
Nice thief costume, too bad it got away lrom me that night. Don't forget: knock your socks off and don't crush orange crush! Bzzz ... 
1 S.M.C. JR.WINTER FORMAL DEC.6 CENTURY CENTER DATE HUNT STARTS NOW! 
TO JOE MURPHY AND FRIENDS, THANKS FOR ALL YOUR HELP THIS WEEKEND, I OWE YOU A BIG FAVOR, JUST LET ME KNOW! THANKS, BETSY 
DEAR DORIS-THANKS FOR EVERYTH­
ING IN BEAN TOWN! WE HOPE TO 
HAVE A REUNION THERE AND OF 
COURSE YOU'LL HAVE TO JOIN US 
WITH THE OLD MAN. LOVE, THE 
CRUMBGRABBERS 
..........,... . ................... 
MUFFIN, DID I TELL YOU HOW 
MUCH ...? 

The Observer 
Tuesday, November 5, 1985 -page 9 

Looking for something to fill those long dull evenings? 
Come Work With Usl 
The Observer is looking for evening product­ion workers right now. No experience is necessary. Learn Valuable layout skills and have fun too! For more information, contact John Mennell at 239-5303 or stop by 4th floor LaFortune. 
It gets down to what you want to do and what Y,OU learn. for today's active world -fast, smooth, need to do. Take the free Evelyn Wood Reading efficient. Dynamics lesson; handle all the work that college 
Don't get left behind because there was too muchdemands and raise your G.P.A. 
to read. Take the free Evelyn Wood Reading Dyna­
You can dramatically increase your reading 
mics lesson today. You can drastically increase your speed today and that's just the start. Think of 
reading speed and learn about advanced studythe time and the freedom you'd have to do the 
techniques in that one free lesson. Make the college things you want to do. For the past twenty-five (25) 
life the good life. With Evelyn Wood Reading years the ones who get ahead have used Evelyn 
Dynamics you can do it. Wood Reading Dynamics. It's the way to read and 
~---Schedule of Free Lessons-----~ 
LOCATION: CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
(directly across from Morris lnnJ on Notre Dame Avenue lon campusJ Room 230 
TUES. NOV. 5 12:00 PM, 2:00 PM, 4:00 PM & 6:00 PM 
WED. NOV. 6 12:00 PM, 2:00 PM, 4:00 PM & 6:00 PM Choose the day and time most convenient for you: Reservations are not necessary. For further information, please call 1-(800) 447-READ 
The Observer Tuesday, November 5, 1985 -page 10 

Lomax sparks second-half rally 
Cards knock off Cowboys, 21-10 

Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Neil Lomax brought St. Louis to life with a 46-yard touch­down pass to Pat Tilley early in the second half and added a clinching toss to J.T. Smith with four minutes to play as the Cardinals ended a four­game losing streak by beating the Dallas Cowboys 21-10 in a National Football League game last night. 
The St. Louis comeback from a 10­0 halftime deficit dropped Dallas, 6­3, into a first-place tie with the New York Giants in the NFC east. The Cards, meanwhile, improved to 4-5. 
• 
While St. Louis staggered against the Cowboy defense, Dallas built a 1 0-0 halftime advantage on Danny White's 8-yard pass to Drew Hill and 
a 19-yard field goal by Rafael Sep­tien. 
St. Louis caught fire on its first possession after halftime, with Lomax's 1 0-yard pass to Doug Marsh lighting the fuse on an 81-yard drive. Lomax followed with a 13-yarder to Tilley, and the Cards picked up an additional 1 5 yards on a roughing penalty. Lomax then connected with Tilley on the long touchdown play to cut the Dallas advantage to 10-7 with 12:05 left in the period. 
Television replays of the play ap­
Women's flag football resumed action last weekend with Farley 
peared to show that Tilley spiked
and Pasquerllla East winning playoffgames to set themselves up 
the ball before reaching the end
for Sunday's championship battle at Notre Dame Stadium. Frank 
zone, but the play was ruled a touch­
Huemmer gives details in his story on page 12. 
down. 

Green 
Continuedfrompage 12 
hall at a spot where we aren't usually going to go beyond two players, we felt there was a log-jam. With Mark's natural abilty, we had to find some­where for him to play. We did the same thing with Alonzo and felt sure that it would work with Mark as well." 
Indeed, it has worked. Green has 
already seen action in five games and 
has caught eight passes for 104 
yards. In addition, he has run the ball 
outside on three occasions, picking 
up 54 yards, including a 40-yard 
gainer in Saturday's game against 
Navy. 
Did Green have any idea he would 
be carrying as much playing time as 
he has? 
"Not at all. Not by any means," 
Green explains. "I was really 
surprised because I didn't think I 
was going to play much at all. I had 
to change to flanker to stay on the 
travelling squad and, hopefully, to 
play. As it turned out, because of in­
juries (in particular to receiver Tim 
Brown), I got the chance. 
"(The first reception) was the 
best feeling I've ever had in my life," 
he continues. "And the feeling really 
never changes. Whenever I have the 
opponunity to get in there and the 
ball comes to me I'm excited." 
Coach Stock has nothing but 
praise for the freshman, and remains 
undecided as to whether Green will 
move back to the tailback position 
next season. 
"He's done a great job," Stock 
says. "We thought we'd give him a 
chance to get his feet wet, and he's 
just played above all expectations as 
a freshman. He's very easy to coach. 
He works hard, has done a great job 
adapting, and is learning as he goes 
along. 
"We'll worry about next year 
when it rolls around. There are 
many factors to be considered. As 
for now, he's doing an outstanding 
job where he is." 
But even with Green's natural 
talent, stepping into the foptball 
program at Notre Dame was by rio 
means easy. 
"I found it tough coming in as a 
freshman and trying to contribute," 
Green says. "It gets better, though. 
Once you get used to the system and 
settle d9wn, you start smiling again." 
If Green's early play is any indica­
tion, the Notre Dame coaches will 
be smiling no matter what position 
he ends up playing. 


Briefs 

Continuedfrom page 8 
NVA table tennis tournament registrations 
must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by tomorrow. The tournament is open to students, staff, and faculty, and will be single elimination. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
NVA squash tournament registrations must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by tomorrow. The tourna­ment is open to students and faculty. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
NVA campus all-nighterentry forms are available at the NVA office and at the Angela Athletic Facility. These forms will be accepted until Wednesday, Nov. 13. For more information call 239-6100.-The Observer 
A pep rally will be held Friday evening at 7 p.m. at Stepan Center. Irish Quanerback Coach Ron Hudson will be the featured speaker. -The Observer 
The ACC hockey rinkis now available for interhall hockey practice. Individual dormitories may reserve late evening ice time for one hour at a rate of $50 per session. For more informa­tion call Tom Carroll between the hours of 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. at 239-5227.-The Observer 
NVA basketball officials are needed for co-ree basketball, men's and women's interhall, and club basketball. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
An NVA team turkey shoot will be held Nov. 
18-19 from 4:30-6:00p.m. at the stadium rifle range by Gate 14. 
Teams must be comprised oftwo men and two women, and reserva­
tions must be made by Thursday, Nov. 14. To reserve a time or to get 
more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
Racquetball enthusiasts who are looking for 
competition should mail applications to Walsh Hall, Room 308, by Nov. 22. Interested students and faculty members should send their name, address, phone number, skill level, and coun preference in the letter. For more information call Michele Debrey at 283-4526. ­
The Observer 

NVA Century Club is a program to promote in­dividual exercise and fitness. Applicants select an exercise and pledge a personal fitness goal. When the applicant reaches his/her goal, a free Club T-shin will be given out. To fill out a pledge card or to get more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
The Cardinals moved 65 yards on their next possession for the go­ahead touchdown. Lomax com­pleted passes of 1 1 yards to Smith and 15 and 12 yards to Tilley to set the stage for Earl Ferrell's 8-yard touchdown run with 4:07 left in the quarter. 
While the Cardinal offense rolled, the Dallas offense was continually frustrated throughout the second half by an aroused St. Louis defense that prompted two turnovers. 
St. Louis moved 80 yards in 1 0 plays for the clinching score. Stump Mitchell ran 21 yards and then took a Lomax pass for 25 to put the Car­dinals on the Dallas 42. Lomax hit Smith for gains of 1 0 and 19 yards before connecting with Smith on a 9-yard scoring play with 4:13 left in the game. 
It was the Cards' third straight Monday night victory over Dallas, which had won 11 of the previous 13 games between the teams, in­cluding the last three at Busch Stadium. 
Lomax completed 17 of 32 passes for 260 yards while White made good on 21 of 36 for 203 yards with one interception. 

'a 
5 

\Nez wis io than! ~veryone for the NftSMC g-ener-osity ihroug-h. 
ou.t Unit-eel Wag~

annual campaign at 
** * 1\lot-r~ Dame * * * Chairm~n of Campaig-n'85 
Mia¢ Hubet'1w&b&lhrnara 
Conrina~ -fodoaate1-M Uuifed Ws:q.'/ 

Study around the world, visiting Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt, Turkey, Greece and Spain. Our 100 day voyages sail in January and September offering 12-15 transferable hours of credit from more than 50 voyage-related courses. The S.S. UNIVERSE is a 500 passenger American­built ocean liner, registered in Liberia. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. 
For details call toll-free (800) 854-0195 or write: Semester at Sea Institute for Shipboard Education University of Pittsburgh, 2E Jlbrbes Quaclrangl.e Pittsburgh, PA U5260 
Repre•entGtlue ..,,be on c:alllpu..Tue•. Nou. 5th In tile lnternatlo-1StudentLoungefro~n4:30 -7:30. Slide •llo..,• at 4:30 & 6:30 In tile International Lounge 2nd Floor l.GFortune 


']I['~~C3L~--------------------------------------------T·u•e•s•d-ay_,_N_o_v_e_m 
b_e_r_s_,_I_9_8_5_-_P_a_g_e_l l 
Bloom County 
MilO.. HElP Mf MilO... TOI'fiOI?I?OW '5 PAb£ IS /?1£ AN(l [ hii/VEN'r SfOTf'E(l 1/ Tl?tN(l 
Yfr... 
,. ~ 


Zeto 

HELLO, DYNAMOS PIZZAf I~REDA PrZZADVER A HAlF AN HCVR 1'\70 AND 
ITSTii..l HASN 'r ARRIVED. 
ACROSS 1 Taft or Holden 8 Netherlands 
15 Increase 16 Property 
recipient 17 Slips by 18 Corrupt 19 Congressman 
from NY 20 Allen or 
Lawrence 22 Recipe abbr. 23 Depot: abbr. 24 Coaches 27 Measures 28 Unconscious 
state 32 "Gentlemen 
Prefer-" 34 Taste 36 Spans 37 Most beloved 38 Body muscle 39 Classroom 
Items 40 "Do -others..." 41 -out (says 
suddenly) 42 Closecall 45 Resort 48 Gl address 51 Offspring 52 Mop 53 Participated 55 Silliness 58 Sharp 59 Mex. blankets 60 Ore tester 61 Combinations 
DOWN 1 Pay periods 2 Ria 3 Alpaca's 
cousin 4 Northern Finn 5 Tax agcy. 6 Iron or Stone 
YIJPPie:J ... :3/N&t~ PIIR~NrfJ. CllfJfJII&~ fllrcH 7H!N&6 R£f'II/1{./CI!Ni5M ... />111'18€ ICE CREAM ... 1/U.. 71116 CO/JNTRY 11{€ (100(1 C/111ZfS. /j &KOW/N& Hllvt oetN (lONe 51/SPIC/O(JS OF 8¥ .nMC1/N(l Mf(llfi -WrN(J­NEWflWffK." FfiCT()f([(l 
711€R!'S "5~ me.NCJS.
NOrH/N(J ' I 
tetltl. '.. ~ 
. ~~ 

:;---\ cc{~,,.~ 
-__:_,~ 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


Kevin Walsh 

"If there're monsters moving in next door, Danny, you just ignore them. The more you believe in 

The Daily Crossword 

~ 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 


All Rights Reserved 
13 Snares 14 Profound 21 Cravats 24 Ballroom 
dance 25 More dis· 
courteous 26 Frightens 27 Baptismal star 29 Ended 30 Ground cover 31 Craft 32 Br. gun 33 Fluff 34 Worries 35 Endures 36 Unit of heat: 
abbr. 37 Celtic 

7 Communications religious 8 Sale harbors system 9 Martini 39 Patron saint 
garnish of sailors 10 Liquid measure 41 Agent 11 Garland 43 Black 12 Med. sch. 44 Got up 


Monday's Solution 
GT A'IfI B A l MsIA B B E 
I 0 W A 0 N E A L L 0 0 S BOONOOGG~~t COIN 
I 0 R E R:r~


''llf~~~
II'~

A 0 DE S F I 0 0 
tf-1 L A IZ E 0 
'Stt V 0 T IE R S ~ A Y E S M A R 
EGOISMII!!ICARRIAGE 
, o u o leo o o " Is s " 
L A N E E L I T E 0 R A L 
A 0 0 S R E L E T R A R E 
Campus 
•12:00 
P.M. · Seminar, "Mirages and Miracles: Problems of Industrializat, Alain Upietz, CEPREMAP, Paris, France, Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Helen Kellogg In· stitute for International Studies, 

•12:00 
P.M. -1:00 P.M. -Lecture, "Biblical Hospitality to the Stranger: Immigratio, Professor Verghese J. Chirayath, John Carroll University, Center for Social Concerns Auditorium, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns and Network for Peace a, Brown Bag Lunch 

•12:30 
P.M.· 3:30P.M.-Blood Drive, Student Health Center, Sponsored by Lyons Hall, Oil· ion Hall, Zahm Hall, 

•4:30 
P.M. · Seminar, "Cis and Trans Activa­tion of Eucaryotic Genes", Dr. Thomas Kadesch, University of Pennsylvania Medical School, Room 283 Galvin Life Sciences Center, Sponsored by Department of Biologi· cal Sciences, 

•4:30 
P.M. · 6:00 P.M. · Support Group, "Grief and Loss Support Group", Linda Monroe, M.A., Room 300, Counseling and Psychological Services Ce, Sponsored by CPSC, 


them, the more they'll try to get you." 
•6:30 
P.M.. Presentation, An Effective Mail Campaign: Resumes, Cover Letter, Paul J. Reynolds, University of Notre Dame, II H· Nieuwland Science Hall, Spo11sored by Career and Placement Services, Talk will be repeated on November 6 

•7:00 
P.M.· Meeting, Room 122 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by Pre-Professional Society, 

•7:00 
P.M. Meeting, Little Theater, LaFortune Student Center, Sponsored by French Club, 

•7:00 
P.M. AND 9:00 P.M. -Movie, "Roses in December: The Jean Donovan Story', Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Social Con­cerns Film Series, 

•7:00, 
9:15 AND 11:30 P.M. · Movie, "From Ru~sia With Love", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, J 1.00 donation to United Way 

•7:30 
P.M. -Tuesday Night Film Series, "The Front", Annenberg Auditorium, 

•7:30 
P.M. -Volleyball, Notre Dame vs. In· diana,ACC, 

•8:00 
P.M. · Meeting, Center for Social Con­cerns, Sponsored by RASTA, Mandatory meeting for all members 

•1 
0:30 P.M. · Study Break, ISO Lounge, LaFortum;. Student Center, Sponsored by In­ternational Students Organization, 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Baked Chicken Almadine Beef Bourguignon Mushroom Stroganoff Tuna Muffin with Cheese 


TV Tonight 
6:00P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
6:30P.M.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
7:00P.M.  16  MASH  
22  Three's Company  
7:30P.M.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP In Cincinnati  
8:00P.M.  16  TheA-Team  
22  CBS Special: Dinosaur  
28  Who's the Boss?  
34  NOVA  
8:30P.M.  28  Growing Pains  
46  Blackwood Brothers  

Saint Mary's Veal Scallopini Spaghetti with Meat or Marinara Sauce Rice Con Queso Wet Burrito 
9:00P.M. 
10:00 P.M. 
11:00 P.M. 

16 Riptide 22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie 28 ABC Novel for Television: 
"North and South" 34 War: A Commentary By Gwen 
Dyer 46 Lesea Alive 16 Remington Steele 34 Newport Jazz 46 Dwight Thompson 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 WSJV Newswatch 28 34 Body Electric 46 Praise the Lord 

46 Father: Lat. 47 Chasm 48 Samoa capital 49 Criticizes 
harshly 50 Food scraps 
10/22/85 
52 Hitch 
54 Social affair 
56 Maiden name 
word 57 Opposite oldep. 


Tuesday, November 5, 1985 -page 12



S~orts 

Irish retain hope after losing weekend match 
By CHUCK EHRMAN and Butler. And lambert isn't com­Sports Writer plaining much about that. "Obviously I was really disap­
The Notre Dame volleyball team pointed that we lost," said lambert. lost to DePaul last Sunday in "But it's not like we don't have a Chicago, but it's not the end of the great opportunity to turn things world. At least that's according to around when it counts, and that's at Irish head coach Art lambert and his the league tournament." players. At the NSC tournament, which 
Although dropping the match will take place Nov. 15-16 in St. with the Blue Demons in four games Louis, Mo., it's a whole new bal­(15-10, 15-ll, 7-15, 15-10) disap­lgame. Much of what occurred pointed lambert's troops, the 9-16 during the season, good or bad, Irish still have hope because they really does not matter except for may get another shot to play con­purposes ofseeding. This is good for ference foe De Paul in the upcoming the Irish, for they may get their wish North Star Conference tournament. of another chance to dethrone con­
Before the Irish play in any ference king DePaul from its pedas­tournaments, however, they must tal. face Valparaiso Thursday at 8 p.m. at But, again, any v1s1ons of the ACC. After this and a Nov. 12 conference glory must come after match with Purdue, then Notre the Valparaiso match on Thursday. Dame can worry about the NSC The Irish will be looking to improve tournament. their season mark and stay in top 
Th~ Obaervcr/Hanncs Hacker

While the Blue Demons clinched form for any future matches they 
the top seed in this tournament with may pl~y. Hopefully for lambert, juniorKaren Sapp, shown here in a match earlier the Blue Demons in the upcoming conference Sunday's victory, Notre Dame fell to they will get their wish against Val­this season, and the rest of the Notre Dame 1'01-tournament, must first get past Valparaiso 5-2 in the conference, good enough paraiso, which finished last year's leyba/1 team lost to DePaul in Chicago last Thursday night at the ACC. Chuck Ehrman gives for a second-place tie with Loyola season with a 6-27 record. weekend. The Irish, who hope to get a rematch with details in his story at left. 

Farley and P .E. win games, set up Sunday final 
By FRANK HUEMMER first and scored as Almeida ran the to outlast P.W. by a score of 26-22. "I can't complain," said Haimes. "I'm looking forward to playing Sports Writer ball around end. Lyons then took P.W. scored the frrst two touch­"P.W. really played a great game. P.E.," noted Farley mentor Janicki. possession of the ball but failed to downs of the game to take an early They have an explosive offense that "Defensively they are very similar to 
Ifthe playoffs are any indication of score as the Farley defense made a 16-0 lead. P.E. stormed back, gave us a lot oftrouble. us. Offensively, they have the best what to expect, the women's flag goal-line stand. however, behind the right arm of "Any team could have won that offensive line of any team in the football championship game this Although his team came away quarterback Colleen Donnelly who game today. We just happened to league. Sunday at 2 p.m. in Notre Dame with the victory, Farley coach Pete fired tWo long touchdown passes to have one extra big play." 
"However. the excitement andStadium should be a real barn­Janicki praised Lyons' performance. running back Annie Schrenk to make later, Haimes praised his team's enthusiasm in Farley is becoming anburner. Farley and Pasquerilla East "You can't take anything away it 16-14 at the half. 
offensive performance. unstoppable thing. Our girls really will meet in the finals after winning from Lyons," said Janicki. "They are In the second half, P.E. again was "Our offense definitely carried us.. want to win. and playing in theclose games over Lyons and a very good team and deserved to led by Donnelly who tossed a touch­It was our best offensive perfor­stadium will he what we've workedPasquerilla West respectively. have a lot better record than they down pass to wide receiver Regi mance of the year. Colleen all year to do."
Farley improved its record to 8-0 did." Richter to make it 20-14. P.W. 
(Donnelly) must have thrown for
with a 14-8 overtime win. Lyons He later added that the Farley fans regained the lead soon after, though, Pasquerilla East's coach Haimes.
500 yards."
jumped out to an 8-0 lead by scoring played a big role in the game. scoring to make it 22-20 in its favor. meanwhile, is preparing his team for
"The defense finally came
with less than one minute remaining "The fans on the Farley side really Still, P.E. was not to be denied the an upset of undefeated Farley.
through when it counted," con­
in the first half. Farley came back to made a difference in helping us play victory as the game-winning score "E-veryone has picked Farley to
tinued Haimes. "Now, we need to
tie the game at 8-8, however, when better in the second half," said came on yet another pass from Don­take it all," said Haimes. "They have a 
keep up the momentum into theJoanna Branick took a pass from Janicki. "They riled us up and got the nelly to Richter. This one forged the lot of talent, but we will be practic­championship game."
quarterback Marilu Almeida and whole team pumped. They really 26-22 final. 
ing real hard. Our team will be ready raced 40 yards into the end zone for helped to change the momentum of When it was all over, it was again a Momentum should not be a to meet the challenge."the score. the game." case of the winning coach heaping problem for either team in the final In the overtime, both teams got Meanwhile, the second contest on praise on the losing team. East's on Sunday, for the championship is Ready or not, this showdown will one chance to score from the five the day's schedule featured many coach Dave Haimes felt P.W. played what both teams have been working be a very interesting matchup and yard-line. Farley received the ball shifts of momentum as P.E. was able a tough game throughout. for all season. should provide a lot ofexcitement. 
He makes necessary adjustments 
Freshman Green answers questions 
By MARlY STRASEN yards per carry during his junior and coach Gerry Faust watched him Sports Writer senior years and compiling 1,035 scamper for touchdowns of 70 and and 1,384 yards respectively. Green 50 yards in a playoff game last year. 
When Mark Green was recruited was the Big Five Conference player "They recruited me, more or less, by the football staff at Notre Dame, a of the year in 1984 and a two-time as an athlete. and let me make up my number of questions remained un­All-California Interscholastic mind whether I wanted to play of­answered. And while some have not Federation, all-county, and all­fense or defense," says Green. "They yet been solved, the freshman's conference player. told me they wanted me to come future with the Irish looks brighter To add to the confusion for col­and give tailback a shot and that if I every time he steps onto the field. lege coaches, Green proved to be a didn't like it I could move over to 
The 6-foot, 183-pounder was solid defensive back during his high the secondary. In the middle of the among the top I00 incoming fresh­school career. His I 0 interceptions summer I said, 'I want to give tail­man in the nation according to The in a sea,son and 21 career pick-offs back a shot.' 1 figured it would be Sporting News, and was named to a set school records. easier going in as an offensive player number of all-America teams after "Coach (Ron) Hudson had been and switching to defense than it his senior year at Riverside Poly recruiting me all along," notes would be going in as a defensive High School in Riverside, California. Green. "They got the word about me player and switching to offense.'' Green was a standout receiver as a defensive back, but Coach Hud­Another switch was still ahead for during his high school career, and son reviewed some films and said Green, however. The decision to decisions had to be made when he that I was a better offensive player move him to flanker was finalized was recruited by the Irish as a tail­than I was defensively. Notre Dame two weeks before the Irish opened back. and Nebraska were the only schools the season at Michigan, and has since 
"Flanker was my position in high that told me that." proved advantageous to both Green school," says Green. "What hap­This seems surprising in light of and Notre Dame. Offensive coor­pened was that I ran the ball quite a his performance thus far at Notre dinator Mike Stockcan attest to that. bit on reverses, counter traps, and Dame, as well as the fact that Green "He was an outstanding all­things like that. I'd do a lot ofoutside was invited on recruiting visits to purpose player in high school," running, but I never played tail­strong football schools like Was­Stock says. "To have Allen Pinkett, 

Freshman flanker Mark Green bas left few questions about his back." hington, UCLA, and USC, to name a Alonzo Jefferson, Hiawatha Fran­ability to contribute to the Notre Dame football team despite his The speedster certainly took full few. But the decision to offer Green cisco, Ray Carter, and Corny Sout­sudden preseason position switchfrom tailback to receiver. Marty advantage of his opportunities to a position on the Irish offense 
see GREEN, page 10
Strasen features the versatile athlete at right. run with the ball, averaging over 1 1 became unanimous when head 





