Ode to Emil -page 8 

VOL XX, N0.9 the in~lqKndt·nt ~tudnll Ill"\\ -.papt-r ...t·n ing notn danll" ami -.aint mary·, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1985 
Bizarre chase scene awakens Grace Hall; student nabs intruder 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
Copy Editor 
A Fort Wayne man wa.~ placed in police custody after a Grace Hall resident clad only in his underwear cha.~d a woman he believed to be a thief down 16 llights of stairs before apprehending her early yesterday morning. 
Although the suspect admitted to being In the hall, he was released later that day because Fort Wayne pollee neglected to read him his right.~. said Glenn Terry, Notre Dame Security director. 
While Cirat:e llall residents slept, tht• suspect was allegedly entering unlocked rooms and stealing items ranging from after-shave lotion to duffle bag.~ and suitcases, said Terry. 
A female ac4uaintance of the suspel·t, believt·d to be a "victim of circumstance," was standing in the hallway at the time of the thefts, he said. 
After she wa.~ apprehended and 4uestioned, the 19-year-old led in· vestigators to the suspect who by then had madt· his way to Fort Waynt·, Terry said. 
"111e at·4uaintance then was allowed to go, Terry said. 
In the meantime, all possessions allt·gt•tlly stolen were found in the dorm's stairwell, and will be returned to the owners after being t:ht·cked for fingerprints, he said. 
Tht· suspect and his ac4uaintance were believt·d to have gained access to the dorm through a propped­open door. said father Gerald Lardner, Grace liall rector. 
The bizarrt· incident, in which Vk·e President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson volunteered a pair of pants to the underwear-clad student, began when sophomoreJoe llills wa.~ awakened by "someone prowling around my desk," Hills said. 
"I guess he heard me because he askt-'d me if I was awake," recounted Hills. "He then said, 'I'm bored, let's party!' and 'I'll come hack later and we'll party.'" 
liills, a seventh-floor resident. then shouted "Wait!" and bolted to the stairwell in time to see the suspen running down the stairs car· rying a bag. 
"We saw joe run out hut we didn't know what he wa.'i doing," said Hills' roommate, Tom McGee. "He just took it upon himself to chase after him, just a guy in his underwear." 
Hills pursued the alleged thief from one section of the dorm to the other, he said. 
"All this time I was yelling at him, calling him things that you couldn't print in the newspaper," he said. 
Still believing he was pursuing the suspect, Hills continued the chase all the way down to the basement, he said. 
"I thought it was the guy in my room, but it turned out to be a big, fat black girl.'' 
"I thought it was a street-wise criminal that knew some kind fight­ing tactics so I grabbed her arm and let her walk in front of me," he said. "She was scared so I was never mean to her. 
"I led her upstairs into what I thought was Father Lardner's room, the new rector," he said. "And all the sudden Father Tyson comes out. 
"So here I am in my underwear and I told him this girl had been stealing. He was in his bathrobe," Hills said. "He told her to come inside (his room) and he gave me some pants. 
"But they were too big." Tyson then called Security, said Hills. 
Investigators were sent to Fort Wayne with the woman, who pointed out where she lived to offi­cials, he said. 
The woman then was let go, said Terry, because "we felt like she was a victim of circumstance. She didn't know what she was doing." 
The suspected thief was at the woman's home, but when searched, no stolen property wa.~ found, Terry said. 
Terry blamed fort Wayne police for allowing the suspect to go free. "When the Fort Wayne police began interviewing him, they didn't read him his rights," Terry said. 
"Our people couldn't get in a word edgewise," he said. "Now we can't use his admission." 
Security is continuing its inves­tigation in the hope that new evidence can be found, said Terry. 
"We're gathering all the informa­
tion we can so we can get a warrant 
from the prosecutor's office." 
Terry is not worried about the suspect and his acquaintance leaving town, he said. 
"We know who both ofthem are.'' 

Holy Cross Hall will no longer house students when Notre Dame builds two new dormitories. The University plans to construct two donnitorles 
Holy Cross lease won't be renewed as plans for new dorms progress 
By MARK DILLON 
Senior StaffReporter 
Residents of Holy Cross Hall at Notre Dame will be moving in the future. 
"Holy Cross Hall will be vacated as soon as funds can be raised for a new dormitory," Thomas Mason, vice president for business affairs said. 
Previously a high school seminary for the Congregation of Holy Cross, Holy Cross Hall was leased to the University of Notre Dame for a ten­year period beginning in 1967. In 1977 the lease was renewed for another I 0 years. 
The lease apparently will not be renewed. 
In a 1981 architectural study ofall dormitories on the Notre Dame campus, Holy Cross Hall was found to be in need of major renovations. 
"The roof, walls, exterior skin, plumbing, electricity and life safety systems were all in need of renova­tion," Physical Plant Director Donald Dedrick said. Approximately S2 million was needed to renovate the building. 
Following the 1981 study, Notre Dame renovated those components of Holy Cross Hall essential to main­tain current safety standards. All life safety systems, including fire alarms, hall exits and stairwells, meet cur­rent regulations. 
The Congregation of Holy Cross offered Notre Dame a long-term lease at the time of the study. Notre Dame, however, rejected the offer. 
"We felt the money needed for the renovation would be better utilized in constructing new dor· mitories," Mason said. 
Holy Cross Treasurer Father Carl Ebey said, "The Congregation of Holy Cross is in need of more space. It is safe to assume that both Notre Dame and the Congregation would be well served if the lease is not ex­tended." 
"The·lease for Holy Cross Hall is up in 1987 at which time Notre 
Dame will have 18 months to decide on renewal," Ebey said. Ebey, however, expects a deci­sion within the next six months. 
The major concern with this deci­sion will be availability offunds. The University fundraising committee Is looking into possible donors for the proposed buildings. 
Although there are no definite plans on the drawing board for the new buildings, a conceptual view al­ready has been formulated. 
"We are looking at two dorms similar to th(' Pasquerlllas only slightly larger. Each would have a capacity of about 300 students and would be located between the Pasquerillas and the library," Dedrick said. 
"Picture the Pasquerlllas tlip­flopped into the space by the library. There would be courtyards and a landscaped area facing the library ln­St('ad of the towers," he added. 
It Is not known yet whether one of the dorms will be for women. 
ND/SMC security increased in wake of last spring's rape 
By LAURA S. GRONEK 
News Staff 
The rape of a Saint Mary's student la.'it year ha.~ caused the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community to focus more attention on personal safety. 
The girl, who was raped during commencement week last year, had heen walking alone wearing a Walkman along the road between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and was approximately 100 yards away from li.S. 31 when a man attacked and raped her, Director of Notre Dame Security Glenn Terry said. 
The rapist evidently had been lurking in the area for some time that evening, waiting for a lone traveler, Terry said. 
The girl was the first rape victim on either the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's campus in seven years. 
"It's an unusual, i~lated case," Terry said. "We haven't had this type of thing reported in years." Both campuses, however, believe that one incident is one too many, Terry said, and strongly encourage stu· dents to guarantee their own safety. 
Sister Karol Jackowski, Saint Mary's dean ofstudent affairs, issued a newsletter at the outset ofthis year which encouraged students to protect themselves against assault. 
One way to learn how to prevent personal assault is to participate in Personal Safety Week to be held Oc­tober 3 through 8. Activities during the week will address various aspects of personal safety and crime prevention. 
An informative pamphlet entitled "Sexual Assault" also is available from the Department of Residence Ufe. Besides tips on how to defend one's self, the handout offers In­formation on people to contact on campus if an assault should occur, steps to take in reporting the crime, and ways to deal with the emotional effects of an attack. 
In a similar attempt to help stu­dents, Notre Dame Security purchased a slide and tape set called "An Act of Violence." Associate Director of Security Rex Rakow said this 20-minute presentation is "a good basic report on being aware of what's around you. We're hoping to get them out in the dorms Ifthere is any interest." 
Notre Dame Security offered the following tips to prevent personal assault: 
•Taite 
advantage of the Transpo shuttle service that runs between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 

•Call 
security for an escort on foot or by car to and from both campuses. 

•Walk 
in large groups (four or more). Don't travel alone. 


"Traveling alone is just leaving yourself open to an assault. Remem­ber that you are your own best guarantee ofsafety," Jackowski said. 
l 
1 
j 
1 
I 
j 

lOi.Discount for ND/SMC Students
r 
Check tomorrow's paper for answer.." 
I 
VVeather ! •••••••••••••••••
r 
Another steam bath. Mostly 
cloudy today with a 40 percent chance ofthun­
For A Relaxed dershowers. High around 85. Pardy cloudy with the low In the lower 70s tonight. Hot and humid tomorrow with a 20 percent chance of 
Evening Out 
afternoon thundershowers. High in the lower 90s. -AP 
~.Pkd~~ 
r  The Observer  
l  
In Brief  

Finding food remained a major problem yesterday for thousands of people along the Mississippi Gulf Coast in the wake of Hurricane Elena's onslaught that wrecked stores and turned off refrigerators. An additional 150 utility lineman were called in from Alabama and Georgia by Mississippi Power Co. to help restore electricity to more than 50,000 customers still powerless since the hurricane hit land on Labor Day. At the height of the storm, Missis­sippi Power had 80,000 customers out of service. For a second straight day, there were long lines at the few grocery stores and supermarkets that had reopened in Harrison and Jackson counties, and lines of 1 5 cars were common at gas stations. -AP 

Of Interest 
The voluntary student insurance policy 
inquiries will be answered today by Dan Newman, manager for G-M Underwriters, Inc., when he visits campus this afternoon from 1 to 4 at University Health Services. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Army ROTC group will be 
having an awards ceremony this afternoon at 4:30 in the Memorial library auditorium. -The Obseroer 
No more Emil! will be the cry tonight when sop­homores celebrate their liberation. The engineering auditorium will be the place from 10 to midnight for Emil impersonations, a bonfire, and an Emil parade. -The Obseroer 
Judge Richard Posner ofthe U.S. Court ofAppeals for the Seventh Circuit will speak on "The Ethics of Wealth Maxi­mization" today at noon in the Law School student lounge. The Thomas White Center on Law and Government is sponsoring the lecture.-The Obseroer 
The ND-SMC Young Democrats will have 
their first meeting tonight at 7 in the New Orleans room in Lafortune. -The Obseroer 
Interested debaters are requested to attend an in­
formational meeting ofthe Notre Dame Debating Club today at 4:15 in Room G2 of the Memorial library.-The Obseroer 
Tickets for the Alabamaconcert will go on sale at the OBUD desk in Lafortune tomorrow morning at 9. Only 300 of the Sl5.50 tickets are available for the Oct. 6 concert at the ACC. There is a limit oftwo tickets per person, and a valid Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID Is required for purchase. -The Obseroer 
The Observer 
The Observer (USPS W9 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Obeerver Is published by the students of the University of Notr., Dame and Saint Mary's Colle3". Subscriptions may be: purchascod for J30 per y.,ar ( •20 per se· m.,ster) by writing lb., Obeerver, P.O. 
Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
The Obeerver Is a member of The 
AMoclated Press. All reproduction 
rights ar., rc,served. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor................. Mark McLaughlin Design Assistant........................ Carey Gels Layout Staff. ............................... Bill Harvey ~Utcomo 9>~ '<i Typesetters ................................... Tom Small 
Mary Ellen Harrington Chuck Papandrea Mark B. Johnson 



BLUE GROTTO
News Editor .......................... Mary Heilman 
Copy Editor................................ Miriam Hill 
Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke 
Restaurant 

Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ Doug Hasler VIewpoint Layout................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout ............ Mark McLaughlin ND Day Editor........................ Aimee Storin NO Ave.
Only 7 Blocks 
SM{; Day Editor................. Mary jean Sully Ad Design .................. Mary Carol Creadon 
From Campus
Photographer ........................ Dan Piscatelli 
Thursday, September 5, 1985 -page 2 

With the demise of the N azz, 
i 
t 


late night studying fades away 
It's after midnight and you realize that you have eight hours of reading ahead of you before you can possibly lead the discussion in class tommorow morning on St. Augustine. 
Knowing your chances of staying awake all night are slim in the same area as your sleeping roommate, you head for the Nazz. The company might be just the thing you need, except for another cup ofcoffee. 
There may be no one there to keep you awake when you do stumble over to the Nazz, mainly because it does not exist anymore. The 24-hour study lounge in the stu­dent center has entered the history books. 
According toJoni Neal, director ofstudent activities, none of the renovated student center will be open 24 hours. "The building is not being built as a giant study hall," she said. 
Although late-night study was discussed while the renovation plans were being made, it was decided not to include an area for this activity in the building. "This is not an academic building. 
ging from furniture to posters. 
Glenn Terry, director of Notre Dame security, said there are also security risks involved in a late-night study area. "Non-campus people tend to prowl around and cause us problems," he commented. He said the manpower needed to patrol an area where late-night study occurs is just not present at the University. "We have three grounds people, most of the time two, to patrol the grounds," he said. 
"If there's a group of people congregating, there are going to be risks," Terry said. 
All of this leaves the student of St. Augustine, or any student for that matter, with a bit ofa problem. With the elimination of the Nazz, there really is no other place to study all night. Dorm rooms often are not conducive to study because of roommates and inviting beds. If you plan on using dorm study lounges, you had better make sure that your study group is single-sex, because parie­tals eliminates mixed groups. 
·······~~~······~
: * ~  I am a famous NO Alumnus. I pitch for the  ,._J*  
~  L.A. Dodgers.  ~  
~  You've heard my  ~  

SOUTH IENO • LEBANESB STYU:

* songs on the radio. ~ 
• Pit• Slllffed s...dooi.,_ GVROS 
• DeU,Ittfu.l Paotrira • Tu.r•yiJ Col/rt 288-5639

~ I sell used cars at * 
Tura -Sol 5:30PIII -9:30PIII 
COMPLETE CATEitiHG FOR 838 Portage

~ Basney Honda. ~ 
PARTIES. BANQUET~ 

,._ WHOAMI? ~
* 


Jane Kravcik 
Assistant News Editor 

The off-campus student is not offered either of these alternatives, and really is forced to go off campus. 
There are those who claim that a student, with a bit of foresight, can avoid all-nighters. With a bit of foresight, most wars could be avoided too, but life does notal­ways work that way. All-nighters are pretty much a fact oflife among college students, even if it is not the best of all possible worlds. 
At a University ofthis size, there should be some way to compromise between the students, who simply want a place to study, and the Uni­
is just a matter of imagina­tion," he said. 
"If people are looking for a late-night study area, maybe student government should look into it," Neal said. 
There are many possibilities for late-night study on campus. A few years ago, for example, there was some consideration of a 24-hour study lounge in the base­ment of the library. The study lounge never materialized, but it is an example of what a little im­agination and student support could bring forth. 
It could be that a few years from now it won't be the people who seem to live in the Nazz who are satirized in the Keenan Revue, but instead people who seem to live in the catacombs of the library basement. 
Think Before You Dr1nk Before You Drive 
MID • EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
• Vr,.lanM • ~al DYiwt FOODS SHAWBIUIA • MUOBDERA -BABA GHENOUJ HOM MUS-FELAFEL TEBIJOULI SAI.AD 

It is designed to enhance sociability," she said. 
These decisions were not made without reason, however. Neal cited a liability problem as one of the reasons the Nazz, or an area with a similar use, was eliminated from renovation plans. Anything that occurs in the student center, regardless ofthe time ofday, is the responsibility of the University. "A lot could hap­pen down there; there is potential," she said. 
Neal also cited examples of robberies which have occured in LaFortune, ran­versity, which is worried not only about the security of the buildings in which the students study but also about the security ofthe stu­dents themselves. 
With appropriate security, there does not seem to be any objection to late-night study, at least not from Neal or Donald Dedrick, director of the physical plant. "Personally, I support 24-hour study if it is adequately protected from outsiders," Dedrick said. 
Dedrick suggested the use of closed circuit television to patrol an area. "All of this 

"Come once­We know you'll Come Back.'' 


----------~-------------------·-~~ ----~---------­
The Observer Thursday, September S, 1985 -page 3. 

Tbelr•es left ,wthit1g but a bare wall whet1 they stole three sta­tions ofthe cross from St. Edward's Hall chapel. The theft was dts­cor'et' at approximately I 0 p.m. Monday. See story at right. 


Saint Mary's plans fall activities . 
By THERESA GUARINO 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
College activities for the first half of the fall semester were outlined at last night's Programming Board meeting. 
Traditional Events Commissioner Susari O'Dell described some of the events presented in conjunction with the College's annual Oktober­fest and Founder's Day. 
Oktoberfest, Oct. 9 and I 0, will in­clude the traditional beer garden for those 21 and older, and the root beer tent. A deejay will entertain stu-

Three crosses stolen from St. Ed's 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
CopyEditor 

Notre Dame Security is continu­ing its investigation into the Monday night theft of three "irreplaceable" stations of the cross at St. Edward's Hall chapel. 
The hand-carved wooden sta­tions, fixtures of the chapel for over 60 years, were on opposite sides of the chapel, said Father Mario Pedi, rector ofSt. Edward's. 
Because one of the stations taken was located away from the entrance, said Pedi, "they had to walk across the chapel to steal it." 
dents at both tents. Also on the agenda for Oktoberfest is a bonfire, a tentatively planned pig roast, and a German dinner, served outdoors this year. "The Sound of Music" will give way to a double feature of "Raiders of the Lost Ark" and "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom." 
Founder's Day, October 15, is the day traditionally celebrated as the birthday of the College. A "walk through time" picture show, a spe­cial dinner catered by SAGA and birthday cakes will be part ofthe fes-
Security has no suspects in the case, said Glenn Terry, director of Notre Dame security. 
"There was no indication of breaking in," said Terry. "It was a case of someone seeing something they wanted and taking it." 
The stations, numbers one, two and eight, were discovered missing at approximately 10 p.m. Monday, said Pedi. The hall's maids and janitors have been notified of the theft, he added. 
"The problem is they're ir­replaceable because when one goes through the devotion, one stops at each station, all 14 ofthem," he said. "You can't pick and choose them. 

tivities. New this year is a writing contest with a Founder's Day theme, which carries a $50 prize for the winner. 
Trudee Landsfield, entertainment commissioner, described the new "That's Entertainment" series of programs this semester. "It's a monthly program to utilize the Hag­gar Center," she said. "We'll use lo­cal and professional talent. It will be a type ofcoffeehouse." 
The series will begin September 25 with John Kennedy, an Irish singer. 
"They're like the rosary. You don't pick and choose which beads you'll say Hail Marys on." 
Terry said he believed students may have stolen them as a prank, but Pedi had no idea who had taken the stations. 
Pedi will not purchase a new set of stations. 
"What one has to have for each station is a small wooden cross, the rest is decoration," he said. What we'll do is get three small wooden crosses on the wall which will allow us to make the stations." 
But, Pedl said, "It'll be a pretty stark reminder." 
NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
SUBSCRIBE NOW-See WISTSIDESfOIIY Free! 
\ ~ \ --Endol file World by Arthur Kopit '-. October 10. 11. 12, 17. 18, 19. · Washington Hall-University of Notre Dame 
World Hunger Coalition continues Wednesday fast 

ByDAVIDT.LEE While the project's aim is to raise News Staff money for the hungry, another goal is "to educate the Notre Dame stu­Many students will feel a few dent body of the problems of world hunger pangs once a week during hunger," says Tim McLellan, an in­
lunch this semester. 

volved member of the group. "I 
No, It is not a protest boycott of think that the main thrust of the fast the dining halls. Instead, it is Notre is to have solidarity with poor Dame's version of USA for Africa -people." the World Hunger Coalition. The campus-based group sponsors the 
Although the Wednesday fast isWednesday lunch fast each year, and the primary project for the WHC,this year is no exception. 
the group also operates variousThe project involves a voluntary functions throughout South Bendfast by students during lunch each and Notre Dame during the year.
Wednesday, according to senior The coalition helps out a soupKevin Moser, president of the WHC. 

kitchen downtown, and sponsorsIn return, University Food Services such projects as a Thanksgiving food has agreed to pledge $1 for every basket, the Crop Walk on Palm Sun­meal that a student skips. 
day, and simple meals at the diningA semester's worth of fasting to­halls . 
tals between U3 and U4 per per­son. This money goes entirely into development projects throughout Students can sign up for the fast the world to help the hungry. The today and tomorrow during dinner WHC hopes to raise between 18,000 at both dining halls. Sign ups will and $12,000 this year through the also be held during mass In the halls efforts ofstudents. on Sunday. Students interested In 
Although last year boasted 850 joining the WHC can attend the next students who sacrificed their Wed­meeting which will take place Mon­nesday lunch, Moser hopes that over day night at 7:30 in the Center for 1000 people will sign up this year. Social Concerns. 
.-----------------,
t t 
t 


MICHIGAN TICKETS t
t 

t
t 

Sign up for lottery t
t Friday September 6 1:00pm to 4:30pmf
t 

OBUDDesk t
t 

·t
t 

t
200.Tickets Available 2 tickets Istudent
t 
I

ID required t
t I I 
t 1 
t t 1
t 
t
t ~ 
t
t ~ 
WINNERS POSTED SUNDAY SEPT. 8 t
t 

AT OBUD DESK GLASS CASE t
t 

AND AT SAB OFFICES t
t 

... ~~~..-. ..... ~~~~ ........... ~ ...... .-.. ...... ~~~ 
\ 
Hay Fever by Noel Coward 
December 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium-Saint Mary's College 
Tile TemJHMI by William Shakespeare 
February 7.7, 28. March 1. 6, 7, 8. 
Washington Hall-University of Notre Dame 
WMI Slde Story by Leonard Bernstein and Arthur Laurents 
May 1. 2, 3, 15, 16. 17. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium-Saint Mary's.College 
Each Subscriber receives 25% oH regular single ticket prices ....o.lhe equivalent ol seeing W•l Side Story lreel 
Series Dates (be sure to indicate which aeries you wish) 
Series A Thuraclay E9enings-8:10 P.M.: Oct.10. Dec. 5. Feb. 'l/, May l. 
Series B Friday Evenings-8:10P.M.: Oct. 11. Dec. 6, Feb. 28, M~'2. 
Series C Saturday Evenings-8:10P.M.: Oct. 12. Dec. 7. Mar.l. Mdr 3. 
Series D Thuraclay Evenings-8:10 P~ Oct.17. Dec.12. Mar. 6, May 15. 
Series E Fri~ay Evenings-8:10P.M.: Oct.18. Dec.13. March 7. May 16. 
Series F Saturday Eveninga-8:10 P.M.: Oct.19. Dec.14, Mar. 8. May 17. 
Series Prices-For All Series (See all four shows for~ne low price) 
At full price  Sahacrlhen Save 25%  '  Shulellta Save up to SO%  
Washington Hall-Main floor and Ol.aughlin Auditorium Rows A-N  4@$6-$24  SIS  Sl2  
Washington Hall-Balcony and O'Laughlin Auditorium Rows 0-W  4 @ $5-$20  SIS  $12  

Forllcketlnlonnallon call (219} 239-5957 Make checks payable to: uMIVtBSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
r---------------------------------------,
Subscription Order Blank Dale_____ 
·~------------------------------------------­
PlloM( )---­
~--------~---------------------­
..._______ Zip,_____ 
~--------------------­
lhMieal LD. ·--------------lclloo.___________ 
~a~coay____
Seriel o.irtd_______ ftl 11 I .... Floor--------­
"mUer o( labscrlpllou______ Jlall Order lol Plecme add SI.OO for poetage cmd hcmdliDg Nobe Dame/Salal Jlary'a Tbea:lre 
...........Ball Tolal caaaaat ot check 1JJdftnlly ot Nobe Dame or ......, order lloiN Dame,IDdlcma 41551 
~---------T-----------------------------J 

------~~--­-----~-----~-~ 
The Observer Thursday, September 5, 1985-page 4 


Dublin student heads new 'Irish Link' club 
By GERRY GOLDNER many facets of Irish life, including StaffReporter politics, economy and culture. As soon as the Irish link is firmly 
Ireland will soon mean more than established, the group will begin to leprechauns and St. Patrick if sop-sponsor guest speakers, discussion homore Sean Evers has his way. groups and films. A monthly social 
Evers, a Dublin native, recently event will be held, including a pos­organized a dub called the Irish link sible event with members' parents with the primary goal of "educating over parents' football weekend. the members to the Ireland of Although Evers has many plans for 1985." the future ofthe club, his immediate 
Many students' knowledge of objective is organizing the dub. Ireland is limited to "the IRA, leprec-Meetings will be held twice a month hauns and green fields," Evers said. beginning tonight at 7:00 in the In­
To combat these misconceptions, ternational Students' lounge on the Irish link members will explore second floor of Lafortune. 
Laurie INnk, Notre Dame sophomore class vtce Mary's Haggar Center yesterday. Tbe social was -maac--s•~~~~~~~~r~~~'~'2llli®W('_ president, and Steve Georgi, sophomore class presi-sponsored by tbe Notre Dame andSaint Mary's sop­
SINGERS DANCERS TECHNICIAN DRUMMER
dent, beat tbe beat at an ice cream social at Saint homore classes. 



~ shenanigans to be California's 'night stalker' 

Police believe suspect in custody 
Notre Dame's AModated Press He refused to elaborate, but inves­kidnapped and molested four 

Singing and Dancing Ensemble tigators have said that drawings of children, detectives have said. LOS ANGELES, Cal. -Fingerprints inverted five-pointed stars, a satanic Ramirez was charged Tuesday found in the apartment of an elderly symbol known as a pentagram, were with one of the serial murders and 

INFORMATIONAL MEETING 

woman killed 15 months ago match found at several crime scenes. seven other felony burglary, rob­
Thanday; Sept. 5 those of Richard Ramirez, the man Court documents filed by inves­bery and sexual assault counts. He 
7:00pm accused ofbeing the "Night Stalker" tigators claim that Ramirez, 25, was declined to enter a plea immediately 
Satellite Rooa, 2nd Fhtor O'Shag

linked to at least 14 slayings this obsessed with satanism and the pen­during his arraignment. year, police said yesterday. tagram symbol. 
AUDmONS

Meanwhile, police cadets scour­
OnJune 28, 1984,Jennie Vincow,
Police Chief Daryl Gates said ing a section of northeast los An­
Monday, Sept. 9police are reviewing all unsolved geles for a gun believed dropped by79, was found slain in her northeast 
6:00pm•?homicides, burglaries, kidnappings Ramirez found three items beside a los Angeles apartment, Gates said. 
Her throat had been slashed and she
and molestations since 1981 to freeway, said sheriff's Deputy Lynda 
had several other knife wounds. 
determine any link to the recent six­Edmonds. She refused to identify
Investigators have blamed at least 
Be part ofthe action! Tour Boston,

month string of serial killings that them.
14 killings and 21 other attacks on 
Chicago, Pittsburgh, San Diego, Atlanta
have terrorized California. 

the Night Stalker. Guns, kniv:es and "Until the task force has a chance 
Investigators are "looking back on other weapons were used, and some to examine them, we can't say if they all ofour homicides that had strange victims had been mutilated and are linked to the Night Stalker case circumstances," Gates said. tortured. The killer may also have or say what they are," Edmonds said. 
~·······························, 

Religious groups criticize Reagan iAlabama Concert J 
And the Protestant-Jewish coali­But the group also contended in a : : tion, Interfaith Action for Economic nine-page "evaluation" sent to the + + WASHINGTON Prominent Justice, called Reagan's plan "an as­CO!lgressional tax-writing commit-• 

Sunday, Oct. 6 • 
religious groups, while praising sault on the progressivity of the tax tees that the plan "would only par-: : President Reagan for trying to revise system," referring to the skewing of tially make up for the tax increases + + a "jungle-of-injustices" tax system, the system so wealthy people pay a sustained by the poor since 1978 + + are complaining his plan would still higher percentage of income in and would continue to allow some + + do too little for the poor and too taxes. familiestobetaxedintopoverty." • 300 Tickets Available • much for the rich. Those specific complaints con­The coalition's membership list • + 
In broadsides issued as members cern a Reagan recommendation that includes agencies ofthe United Met-+ + of Congress began returning from the top tax rate for the richest hodist Church, the Presbyterian : : summer recess, a large coalition of Americans be lowered to 35 percent Church, the American Lutheran On sale at OBUD desk Protestant and Jewish groups and from 50 percent. The top rate was Church and the Lutheran Church in : : the Roman Catholic bishops' na­70 percent until Congress passed America, the Episcopal Church, the • Friday, Sept. 6, 9:00 am • tional organization addressed details another Reagan tax bill in 1981. United Church of Christ, the • + ofthe president's proposal. Bob groups also said further help American Baptist Churches in the + + 
The bishops' U.S. Catholic Con­for the poor should not come at the United States, the Christian Church • + ference asked rhetorically "Should expense of middle-income 
(DisciplesofChrist)andtheUnion: $15.50 each : 
we allow a large windf.ill for the rich Americans. ofAmerican Hebrew Congregations. • + at a time when the gap between rich The administration bill also aims The bishops' statement was sub-+ + and poor is widening, at a time when to provide tax relief for the poorest 
mitted to the House Ways and •• 
2 per student ID Required·.
millions lack even the most basic Americans, and the interfaith group Means Committee by Monsignor necessities required for human dig­said "the president's proposal is on Daniel Hoye, general secretary of + • 
nitvr' the right track" in that regar<!. the U.S. Catholic Conference. t.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••" 
Death row prisoner r-------~-----------------,
1 Coupon Coupon I 


gets stay of execution-I FAN SALE I 
and lobster and his belongings had been bundled up and labeled for dis­STARKE, Fla. -Convicted mur­posal. 
I 30%· 60~ff Fans I
derer Willie Darden, spared by the "They said he was immensely 
U.S. Supreme Court hours before his relieved," said Vernon Bradford, scheduled execution yesterday, spokesman for the Department of 
I . (while Quantities last) I
resumed his life on Florida's death Corrections. "He's got to be row, where he has lived longer than relieved, but the suffering will go on 

120'' 3-Speed Reg 24.99 -Now 17.991
any inmate except one. because he knows it (an execution Just before midnight Tuesday, a date) is coming back." sharply divided U.S. Supreme Court 

120'' 3-S~eed Reg 34.99 -Now 24.991 
granted him an indefinite stay, Darden has survived three death 
blocking the execution in the warrants, a record that officials said 1 Deluxe 1electric chair set for 7 a.m. at Florida previously was held by convicted State Prison near Starke. police killer Carl Ray Songer, who 
Darden, convicted gunning remains on death row.

of 110" 2-Speed Reg 39.99 -Now 15.991 
down a lakeland furniture store owner in a robbery that netted n 5, When Gov. Bob Graham signed was with his girlfriend, stepsister his first two death warrants, the 



I JCPenney I
and brother-in-law when word of names were those of Darden and the stay was received. John Spenkelink, executed in May University Park Mall I
I

He had eaten what was to be his 1979 for the murder of a traveling Coupon Mishawaka Coupon last meal ofscallops, oysters, shrimp companion. 

~-------------------------~ 

~--------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, September 5, 1985 -page 5 
Chicago teachers agree on tentative settlement 
The strike ~gao after negotiators reached a stalemate over a one-year 
CHICAGO, Ill.-Chicago teachers salary increase, with the board offer­tentatively agreed yesterday to end a ing a 3.5 percent raise and the union strike that had disrupted the first day asking a 9 percent increase. of school for 431,000 students, The union lowered its demand to while walkouts in Seattle and other 8 percent. And late Tuesday, James cities kept another 151,000 students Reilly, the governor's chief-of-staff, out ofclass in six states. who shuttled ~tween the two sides 
The teachers in Chicago, the na­during the talks, said they had tion's third-largest school system, agreed to a "framework for an agree­agreed on a two-year contract on the ment." Money remained the sticking second day of the strike after inter­point, he said. vention by Gov. James Thompson. The average teacher's salary in 
The pact still must ~ approved by Chicago is $30,000, said Board the 28,000-mem~r Chicago Teac­President George Munoz.
Sharp shooter 
hers Union, which called a strike for No new talks were scheduled in the third consecutive year. The Seattle, where the city's 44,000
A student takes time to bonebis poolskills in tbe manygames avatlable there. 
union's House of Delegates was public school students were to have 
basement ofLafortune last night. Pool is oneoftbe 
meeting last night to decide whet­gone back to class yesterday. The her to accept the pact. 3,700 teachers, aides and substitutes Jacqueline Vaughn, president of struck Tuesday over state-imposed the teachers union, said she would salary limits, class size and other 
recommend that it approve the con­issues. 

tract, and that teachers return to "I'm convinced that we'll ~ sion of Disaster and Emergency Cowden officials at the company's work pending approval within 1 0 talking in the very near future. I Services. offices in Lexington declined com­days by the full union mem~rship. would ~ really surprised ifit wasn't 
Fumes at a Kentucky plant were neck ment. in the next day or so," Tom Schmidt, 

Chemical leaks threaten Midwest 
Workers treated for Board spokesman Bob Saigh could
sickened at least 72 people yester­Hydrochloric acid leaking from a assistant superintendent of person­
pains, chills and nausea, said Kevin not be reached for comment yester­
day, an estimated 2,000 people in ruptured tank at a galvanizing plant nel, said yesterday. 
Barnard, public relations director day. The board office said he was un­
Ohio evacuated after an acid leak, in Canton, Ohio, formed a dan­Elsewhere, walkouts ~gan yes­
for Mary Chiles Hospital in Mount available.
and crews in lllinois righted a tank gerous cloud and forced a three­terday in Pawtucket and Newport in 
Sterling. None of the 72 people sent The walkout had parents
car ofa potentially hazardous chemi­hour evacuation of about 2,000 Rhode Island, keeping 12, I 00 stu­
there were admitted. scrambling to find alternative
people. The leak also forced cancel­dents out of school and in Toronto,cal after a train derailment. 
recreational and educational

lation of classes at three elementary Ohio. Strikes continued in four Mic­The state Occupational Safety and 
In New jersey, 71 construction programs for their youngsters or
schools and one junior high. higan districts, affecting 51,400 stu­Health Program had received two
workers at a nuclear power plant seeking last-minute enrollments at
Police Maj. James Fetterman said dents and 3, 1 00 teachers; in sixcomplaints about employees be­
site required treatment and 21 were parochial or other private schools. 
no injuries were reported, other Pennsylvania districts, idling 19,800 coming ill and passing out at the
hospitalized after an automatic fire "I really have lost faith .... No one
than eye, throat and skin irritation, students; and in one other Illinoisplant before yesterday's incident,
extinguisher system accidentally has the heart for this anymore," said 
after the leak at the Gregory Gal­system, affecting 9,900 pupils.
said Michael Salyers, director of
rdea.'ied a cloud ofcarbon dioxide. Mary Almer, a former PTA president.
vanizing and Metal Processing Inc. Pawtucket's 600 teachers votedcompliance. 
State inspectors were sent to a plant. · Some community centers offered early yesterday not to work without textile plant at Mount Sterling, Ky., The agency tried to investigate, Jim Irwin, an emergency response free instruction to students, and a contract in the 8,200-pupil system. after unidentified fumes forced but the firm refused to allow inspec­worker with the Ohio Environmen­Chicago's City Colleges' television They are seeking raises totaling 27 evacuation of 260 workers from the tors inside, Salyers said. A search tal Protection Agency, said about station planned educational broad­percent over three years and Cowden Manufacturing Co. warrant was obtained and an inspec­3,000 gallons ofthe acid leaked from casts ranging from "Sesame Street" rejected a School Committee offer bluejean!t plant, said Gordon Nic­tion began Tuesday, but the cause of a crack in a 5,000-gallon fiberglass to videotaped high school math and of a one-year contract with a 5 per­hols, a spokesman for the state divi-the problem was not found, he said. tank outside the plant. composition classes. cent raise . 
•• Apple Computer, Inc. & University of Notre Dame announce a 
WELCOME BACK MAC FEST 
LaFortune Student Center 
Thursday, Sept. 5 and Friday, Sept. 6 
9:00 a.m. 5:00 p.m. 
There will be Macintosh computers 

Stop zn• to see what's new for Macintosh! 
This ad ..,as created using MacDraw and the Apple LaserWriter LaserPrinter 

----------------------~--------­
The Observer Thursday, September 5, 1985 -page 6 



2 killed, 6 injured during Sikh attack 
few would remain in force until 
Sept. 30. 
NEW DELHI, India -Three Dass, a member of the Delhi suspected Sikh extremists firing Metropolitan Council, was named machine guns burst into a city coun­by civil liberties groups as one of 16 cil office yesterday and killed a Congress Party leaders who al­prominent politician who was a legedly instigated anti-Sikh riots fol­close friend of the prime minister. A lowing the assassination last Oct. 31 bodyguard also was slain and six of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. people were reported wounded. At least 2,700 people died in the 
Slain Councilman Arjun Dass, 46, four-day riots, including almost was a Hindu and a member of the 2,000 Sikhs in New Delhi alone. Congress Party of Prime Minister Another Congress Party politician Rajiv Gandhi. Gandhi called an linked to the riots, national law­emergency meeting to review maker Lalit Maken, was assassinated security in New Delhi. at his home July 31. 
In the statu of Punjab, which has No arrests have been made. Police been beset by Sikh violence for said they did not know whether Dass more than a year, two terrorists was slain because of his alleged role riding a motor scooter opened fire in the riots or as part of attempts to in an industrial area ofJalandhar city. undermine the elections for a new Police in the northern state said two 117-member Punjab legislature and people were injured, but gave no 13 seats in the national parliament. further details. Police last night released 
A series of coordinated attacks photographs of four men, three Tuesday by Sikh extremists in Pun­bearded and turbanned and one jab villages took the lives of four clean-shaven. A television announ­Hindus and injured 12 others. cer said the four, who were not Hindus are a religious majority in all named, were believed involved in a oflndia except the Pu_njab. number ofcrimes, but he did not say 
they were suspects in Dass's murder. 
Authorities believed the spate of violence was intended to sabotage The clean-shaven man was Lal Punjab's Sept. 2'5 elections, which Singh, a Sikh terrorist wanted by the are being boycotted by Sikh FBI for allegedly plotting to kill Rajiv militants. Gandhi during the Indian leader's 
Officials responded by ordering a visit to the United States in june. In­dusk-to-dawn curfew on a section dian police also were seeking Lal on Punjab's border with Pakistan. An Singh in connection with Maken's official announcement said the cur-death. 
Carnage in Lebanon continues to mount 
Associated Press Shiite children, and 27 were 
wounded. 
BEIRUT, Lebanon-Acarbomb ex­The Zahle car bomb was the sixth ploded yesterday at a market in in Lebanon since Aug. 14. At least Zahle, a Christian enclave in the 140 peop~e were killed and 2'50 Syrian-controlled Bekaa Valley. A wounded by the five earlier explo­Christian radio station said at least sions in Christian and Moslem areas. 1 0 people were killed and '50 Yesterday's bombing, at Zahle's wounded. vegetable market, occurred at 3:20 
p.m. The Christian radio Voice ofIsraeli airplanes attacked a Pales­Lebanon said the bomb also set a fuel tinian guerrilla base about six miles depot afire in the Christian city ofsouthwest ofZahle three hours later, 100,000 in the predominantly Mos­in their 11 th raid inside Lebanon this lem area ofeastern Lebanon. 
year. The Tel Aviv military com­It said Red Cross and civil defensemand said the base at Qabb Elias was teams pulled at least 1 0 bodies from a key post of the Palestinian Arab the rubble, and 50 wounded peopleRevolutionary Committee, a Libyan­were taken to hospitals in the moun­backed group. 

tain resort city 25 miles east of 
In Beirut, Shiite Moslem Beirut. militiamen and Palestinian guerrillas Police said the bomb, estimated at battled around a refugee camp in the 330 pounds of TNT, was rigged in a southern district. Police said five Renault sedan. The blast tore a 3­civilians were killed, including two foot-deep hole in the street. 
Women smokers may lessen chances of uterine cancer 
among heavy smokers who have 
passed menopause, the researchers 
BOSTON, Mass. -Older women wrote in today's New England Jour­who smoke heavily may actually nal of Medicine. lower their risk of cancer of the The researchers speculated the uterus, possibly because cigarettes reason could have something to do reduce their estrogen secretions, a with lowering estrogen secretions. new study suggests. But the resear­
In general, the risk ofendometrial
chers caution that the dangers of cancer was 30 percent lower amongsmoking far outweigh any potential smokers than non-smokers.

benefits. 

However, virtually all the difference"The significance of this is the was seen among postmenopausallead that it provides fOr potentially heavy smokers, whose risk was cutunderstanding the cause of en­in half. There was no significant·dometrial cancer," said Dr. Harvey protective effect fur light smokers orFineberg, dean of the Harvard premenopausal women whoSchool of Public Health. 
smoked. "To consider smoking in order to Dr. Noel Weiss ofthe University of
decrease your risk of uterine cancer Washington, accompanying
is like looking for a gas leak with a in an 
editorial, noted that about 100 oflighted match. It would be foolish," every 100,000 women pasthe added in an interview. 
menopause in the United States get 
The study found that the risk of cancer of the endometrium yearly, cancer of the lining of the uterus, or and about 20 percent of them die of endometrium, is lower than usual the disease. 

No, it's tbe Log ChapeL It seems that almost every Log Chapel ts no exception. butldtng on campus is under construction, and tbe 

GLENMORE VODKA
..,. 
6
89 

HAAGEN DAIS 1.71L D'DRD 1199 KINGS CELLAR 
1
99 GIN
11UL 
111'1111 

''"_ __, IUTUIOI 
VieWE_O_i_n__t________Th_u_rs-da._.y.s....ep.._te-m-be-rs_.1-98-5-..._pa-ge-7 



Lunch fast helps ND students understand hunger 
What is the best way to address world hun!(er and its t•radication? We can politicize the is.o;ue by adhering to party lines, taking a 1.:onservativc or liberal stand a~ the case may be. We can think of world hunger as someth­in!( outsidt· ofourselves that we cannot touch or affect. We might dive into the issue, becom­ing an at·tive fixture at the local soup kitchen and an a\'id supporter of"end hunger" groups. 
Mclellan and Moser guest column 
The fal."t is that before we take any sort of stance on how to deal with world hunger, we need to make some attempt to understand what hunger really is and how it affects people. The Wednesday lunch· fast offers every Notre Dame student this opportunity. By pledging one meal a week, we do two things. First, we are making a financial con­tribution to the world's poor. For each lunch we miss, the dining hall donates $1 to the World Hunger Coalition, which distributes the funds to development projects around the world. Second, and more important, we come to an understanding, if onJy temporarily, what being hungry really means. 
When we fust each Wednesday, we will leave the breakfast table with the uncertain feeling that the next meal is long in coming. A cavernous feeling will be echoing in our stomachs by I or 2 p.m. By 3 p.m., our energy levels will decrease to something below nor­mal, and by 4 p.m., "Italian Night" will be the only thought in the minds of hundreds of fasters. At 4:30, the lines will be too long at the dining hall, aggravating the hunger scraping at our insides. By 5, however, we will be happily satisfied, food once again filling our stomachs. If we take this day in the life of a Wednesday lunch faster and multiply the emptiness, pain and frustration of missing one meal one hundred fold, we begin to understand how dire is the need of most of the people on this planet. Conversely, the relief fasters ex­perience at 5 p.m. every Wednesday can be multiplied in the same terms to approximate the pleasure of millions of starving people satisfying their needs. In this way, we come to understand how necessary is our commit-

P.O.Box Q 
Classrooms stolen by greedy administrators 

Dear Editor: 
On<:e upon a time, not so very long ago, two laq~c: clao;srooms were neighbors on the fourth floor of the Adminsitration Building. They faced each other across a hallway which led 10 the offices of Notre Dame Magazine. (>ne cla'i-'iroom, 419, was situated on the north sidC' of the hallway; and the other, 4I I, wa~ hKatc:d on tht· south side. Both classrooms wert· a littk old and a little shabby. I suppose some pt·oplc: thought they were both pretty dingy. Tho.'it' who are not clao;sroom connois­st·urs might t·vcn have imagined that the two rooms were t·qually expendable. 
But those two cl~srooms were not the ~amt·. -!I I was slightly smaller. It could ac­commodate about 75 students comfortably ( altltough the registrar, in his wisdom, Stlllll'times tried 10 stuff I00 or I I 0 hot and .'iweaty bodies into it ). All of 4 I l's windows faced Stlllthward, inviting the hot sun to broil tht· swdents and offering no whisper of cross ventilation. The bright sunlight also bleached out st·ribbling.o; on the blackboard, making it doubly difficult for perspiring scholars to con­tTntrate upon the adventure of learning. 4 I I had six bla<.·kboard panels. Two were so badly dett·riorated that knowledge chalked upon them :o;cemed to melt into the slate. A third wao; squirreled in a corner, invisible to a quarter of the audience. And a fourth was bloded by a pillar. To add to the distress suf­fered by ·4 I I 's denizens, the windows over­looked tht• whirring air-<.·onditioning comprt·ssors loudly pumping cool clean breezes into the offices of the dome's impor­tant people, and the nearest fire escape was on the opposite side of the building's eao;t wing. Those of us with cultivated tastes in clas­srooms did not particularly care for 4I I. 
Doonesbury 


4 19 wao; a gorgeous classroom. It was big­ger than 4I I: it could seat 95 students comfortably, which meant that the registrar could stuff 125 people into it. Most ofits win­dows faced the cool north, but because the room projected northward one cross­ventilating window, shaded by the east end of the wing, also faced eastward. That window was near a fire escape. The windows over­looked a quiet half-empty parking lot reserved for very important people whose well-tuned automobiles made very little noise. All of 419's eight blackboard panels were larger than the panels in 41 I ; none had deteriorated; none was blocked by a pillar; and onJy one was poorly situated. Some ofus came to love room 
419. Some of us made a point of schedulng lecture courses there. Within the last few months, Notre Dame Magazine oozed westward, greedily devouring space it wanted to house an extra editor or a couple of new clerks. Guess which classroom it murdered. 41I is still there, with its rotting blackboards and its pillar and its head and its air­conditioning noises taunting those who must bake therein, packed together under the sun's unremitting gaze. But the old 419 is gone forever. The abbreviated new 419 now oc­cupying some of the space is a medium-sized counterfeit cheat, overcrowded, badly ar­ranged, lacking cross-ventilation and cursed by a kiddie-sized vomit-green chalkboard, the kind of sterile box that seems to be cloning hereabouts as the gracious classrooms die off. Notre Dame Magazine now enjoys complete control of the wing's fire escape, and pos­sesses the old 4I9's precious cross-ventilating window to air its air-conditioned receptionist. 
One must wonder whether the solons · whoever they are · who decide which clas­srooms to ravage for the benefit of the count­Jess university enterprises that are far more important than teaching, ever stop to con­sider, even for a moment, the quality of the 
environment in which classes must meet. Was there some good reason why Notre Dame Magazine could not spill over into 411, and leave 419 alone? Must the multiplying deans in O'Shaughnessy · who doubtless need room somewhere, given the rate at which they have been reproducing lately-keep on gobbling up the only large classrooms in the Arts and Let· ters building for themselves, their staffs, their air conditioners, their computers and their empty coffee rooms? Is there some good reason why replacement classrooms seem al­ways to be · smaller than the rooms they replace, and scabbed by those sickly un­dersized green chalkboards to boot · boards for which Notre Dame does not supply yellow chalk? Does the registrar consider anything other than the number of chairs he can pack into a room when assigning classes to space. Stuff like air and light and the adequacy of blackboards, and the availability of lecterns and of hooks for hanging maps and electric plugs and etceteras. However modest teach­ing's priority might be, one does wish that classroom quality attracted some attention from those who move walls and swallow up rooms for more significant purposes. 
Oh, well. It is obviously time for me to make another ofmy periodic tours ofthe campus, to see if I can spy some decent classrooms which, in the future, I may hijack from Science or Engineering or Business by means of bribery, extortion or outright theft. Meanwhile I shall teach my late-afternoon seminar (scheduled at a weird time to get a good room) In an uncomfortably hot and noisy lecture room; and my midsize early­morning lecture class in a Science room whose heater is already working for the benefit of the 3 7 people sweltering in space suitable for 30; and my after-lunch mob in wretched 41 1. 
Bob Kerby 
Dept. ofHistory 
Garry Trudeau 

Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor .....................•........... Amy Stephan News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb ~a.nt Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Upo 
Hesburgh should divest apartheid investments 
Dear Editor: 

The president ofRutgers University, Dr. Ed­ward Bloustein, has taken an important in­itiative on his university's South African investments. Last week he recommended to the board of trustees that they divest stock in I 0 companies with ties to South Africa. 
We urge Father Hesburgh to take a com­parable stand. While he was a signatory to a statement urging the American Chamber of Commerce in South Africa to become more active in their opposition to South Africa's in­flux control laws, he has yet to exercise any significant leadership over our own profitable investments in that country. As late as April of this year, when we were calling for a revision ofNotre Dame's policy, Hesburgh, his trustees and administration, still felt that the position described in their policy statement of 1978 was their optimal strategy, viz., continued in­vestment in the apartheid system under the Sullivan Principles. We hope that Hesburgh is having second, serious thoughts about this. 

In Hesburgh's own words, Notre Dame is "one ofthe greatest places on earth". It is high time we began to live up to our own rhetoric. The South African investment issue provides 1 us with a lively opportunity. So far, Bloustein ~ 
l 1
and his secular university are way out front. We hope Hesburgh will show some com­parable leadership when our own trustees reconsider Notre Dame's investments in Oc­tober. 
j 

Margarita Rose Chairperson ~ Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Network 
Quote of the day 

"The choice today is not between violence and non­violence. It is either non­violence or non-existence." 
Martin lutherKing,jr. (1929-1968) 
Nobel Prize acceptance speech, 
1964 
ment to the hungry. 

Herein is the primary motivation of the Wednesday lunch fast-creating empathy in us who have much for the majority who have so little. Once we experience hunger, and come to understand the seriousness of its ramifica­tions, then we can intelligently make a judg­ment on how to approach the problem. 
Regardless of where we stand on the political spectrum, hunger must be a central issue for all ofus. Our involvement in and con­cern for mankind necessitates it and our tem­porary experience of hunger on Wednesdays confirms it. 
Tim McLellan and Kevin Moser are seniors in the College ofArts & Letters and are actit'e in the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition. 
Operations Board 

Businesa Manager ...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The ObaervM is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necesaarily reflect the policies of the adminletralion of either institution. The news is reported aa accurately and objectively as pos­sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tariee, lettena and the Inside Column present the views of their authon1. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 

Accent 


Weird AI Yankovic 
His songs live up to his name 
KrisMurphy 
features writer 
L
ast night I saw "Weird AJ" 
Yankovic in concert at the 
Stepan Center. Let me revise that. 
Last night I went to Stepan Center 
and listened in horror as a squirrel 
died a horrible death in a blender. 
OK, OK, I'll be honest. I DID go to 
Stepan and I DID see Weird AJ. He 
was really great. What? I have to say 
more? Alright, alright, these are the 
parts I remember. 
Weird AI and his Stupid Band hit the stage at exactly 8:30 p.m. He was a halfhour late and Stepan Center was only halffull but there was tension in the air. The kind of tension one feels on a sinking ship. Things were about to get ugly. The first song was "I Lost on jeopardy" and the audience loved it even though it was too loud to make out any ofthe lyrics. Oh darn. 
Things got better when AI began to dance and the host of"Jeopardy," Art Fleming suddenly appeared on the giant video screen that was set up behind the stage. The Stupid Band instantly asserted itself as a power to reckon with as two keyboards, one guitar, bass and drums pounded away harder than the Sex Pistols ever did. They also did their best to back up Weird Al's vocals which could only be described as "intense." 
"I Lost on jeopardy" ended sud­denly and Weird AI called for his accordian. Stepping to the microphone he introduced his "Polka Party" and launched into "State ofShock." This was easily one of the night's better moments as AI is really a pretcy good accordian player. The band switched over to banjos and horns as the medley moved to "Sharp Dressed Man," "Owner ofa Lonely Heart," "The Reflex," and "Relax" all ofwhich sounded at least as good as their original versions. 
The band should have stayed with accordions and banjos because things turned brutal again when "Brady Bunch" (to the tune of"The Safety Dance") began. The song itselfwas funny as the "Brady Bunch" credits rolled on the screen and Alice got one ofthe biggest reactions ofthe night. The band seemed determined to drown out all of the lyrics though and without his lyrics AI is boring. AI without lyrics is sort oflike yogurt without fruit. 
He did not however, give up. In his green Hawiain shirt and scrub pants he announced that it was time for audience participation: Weird AI: Lemme hear ya say "Yeah!" Audience: Yeah! Weird AJ: Lemme hear ya say "No!" Audience: No! Weird AJ: Lemme hear ya say "Maybe!" 
The world's shortest drum solo (two beats) followed this and then AI introduced "Slime Creatures From Outer Space" which came complete with eerie sound effects and a film full offlying saucers. If you had any idea how stupid this reviewer feels trying to explain a song about slime creatures you would probably feel real sorry for me and then you would send money to my dorm room. Instead, you are reading this paper instead ofeating your lunch (good move) and hopefully getting a good idea of what Weird AI was like last night. Actually "Slime Creatures" worked well because AI seemed to identify with the subject matter and the audience liked the flying saucers. 
The band seemed to deteriorate 
quickly after "Slime Creatures" 
ended. The synthesizers became 
almost inaudible and the drums 
seemed to be keeping a beat of their 
own. None of that kept A1 from his 
version of"King ofSuede" (to the 
tune of"King of Pain") which he 
delivered in a voice that made him 


While clad in the infamous red-leather-zipper jacket, AIsings "Eat it." 

sound like he was in labor. The tune was quite stirring and the darkness ofStepan Center was pierced by the glow ofcigarette lighters. Two of them. AI came into the audience to sing his big slow number, "One More Minute" which more than a few members of the audience took as their cue to leave and go to Senior Bar. With lyrics like "I'd rather spend eternity eating shards of broken glass/Than spend one more minute with you" this song deserved something more force-ful than polite listening and it was too slow to dance to. 
Things picked up again with "I Want a New Duck" which was punchy, comparatively well played, and complete with a Greek chorus of"Quack, quack, quack, quack." "like A Surgeon" got a good reac­tion but the joke had just about run it's course and no tears were shed when Weird AJ and company left the Stepan stage. Weird AJ is genuinely funny at times but he is better at being tedious. He's sort of like an obnoxious little brother who won't go away. 
I left Stepan Center hoping that I would'nt hear much from Weird AI for a while because a little is enough, sort oflike mono. I'll probably curl up with my old Clash albums and try to forget the whole thing. Now stop reading this and get 
back to your lunch. It might be 
getting warm. 

AIperforms his anthem "Dare to be Stupid" lastnight at Stepan Center. 
Photos by Hannes Hacker 



Deliver us front Entil 
The Emil is my teacher; I shall not pass. He maketh me to sit in an assigned seat And causeth me to answer seven questions; He confuseth my mind. He guides me For his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the Shadow ofthe Valley ofDeath Ifear no Emil, for thou art with me. Your review sessions and your staff, They comfort me. You set a periodic table before me in the sight ofmy classmates. You inundate my head with facts; My notebook runneth over. Surely worries and anxiety shallfollow me All the Thursdays ofmy life. AndI shall dwell in the Hall ofCushing For months to come. 
This psalm/prayer can be said in the place of the usual "and deliver us from Emil" prayer at the start ofclass. You freshmen may even want to clip out this article and keep it in your text to remind you that things aren't so bad. Maybe it will keep you from "making those mistakes all freshmen make." I could write more about Emil 
T. But maybe anything but a prayer would be useless. Good luck ... you'll need it! 
Editor's note: This poem is rept<jnted from a column byjim Green published in the Sept. 10, I982 issue ofThe Observer. 

Keith Harrison Jr. 
record review 

ScarecrQw 
by John Cougar Mellencamp 
Records are rated on a tour-star scale. tour being the best 
*** 

" I nva.~ion of the Springsteen 
Clones" l"t)Uld he tht· name ofa low-budget horror !lick or it may be the ll<:st way to describe the Bil­lboard Top ·lO chart this week. With Bryan Adam~> and John Cafferty racking up big ~ales by doing cheap imitations of that guy from New Jersey, fans of the Boss can be excust·d for suspiciously eyeing S<·arecrow. the new album by John <:ougar Mclkn<.·amp. 
Their tl'ars are unf(>unded. 
Musi<.·ally, there are few surprises on Scart•<:row. Mellencamp sing.o; solid, no-synthesizers-plea~e nx:k'n'roll and he does it well. Most of tht· songs ht·ar familiar <.'harac­teristics: a tight, chugging rhythm 


Psychedelic rock above radio garbage 
the least unique. Buried deep in the

Kevin Walsh 
second side is "The Girl with the record review Guitar (Says 'Oh Yeah')," which for 
Arrive Wlthqut Travelling 
The Three O'Clock
.. * 

Records are rated on a tour-star scale. tour being the best 
P 
sycht·ddic. 'I11e word conjures up many things to many people. Some people picture hallucinations caused by mind-altering drugs. Some people think of the music of tht· late '60s. Psychedelic music ranges from the well-known experi­mt•nts by the Beatles, in song.o;like "Lucy In The Sky With Diamonds," to tht· lesser-known Ch1x:olate Watchband and the Strawberry Alarm Clock. 
After an EP and two albums, 'Ibe ·nm:e O'Clock ha'i come up with their first major release, Arrive Without Travelling. The album establishes The Three O'Clock as an unaba~hedly psychedelic group. 
Practically every song on the album has something unusual to boast of. 'Ibc common, unusual thread is Querdo's voice, which has a high, breathy quality not usually found in a male voice. In fact, after dropping the needle on the first track, you may think you have the turntable set too fast. It sounds like the Chipmunks would after breath­ing helium. 
Interestingly enough, the only two striking songs on the album are section, understated guitar work and growling, throaty vocals. 
"Justice and Independence '85," "Rumbleseat" and the hit single "Lonely 01' Night" all have the same sound that put "Authority Song" at the top of the charLo; last year. Fans of"Jack and Diane" are not fogot­ten, however, a~ Rickie Lee Jones joins Mel !encamp for the slower­paced "Between a Laugh and a Tear." 
The big surprises on Scarecrow, though, arc lyrical. Picking up where "Pink Houses" left off, Mel­lencamp has become rock's Mid­western spokesman. He mai<es some strong statements about life in a part of the country where Reaganomics has yet to bring prosperity. 

In "Rain on the Scarecrow," for example, Mellencamp mutters over a dark, brooding guitar: 
Well there's 97 crosses planted in the courthouse yard Ninety-seven families who lost 97 
farms I think about my grandpa and my neighbors and my name And some nights I feel/ike dyin', 
like that scarecrow in the rain 
Sorrow, frustration and courage in the face ofadversity weave throughout Scarecrow, appearing in five of the album's I 0 songs. What mai<es the words effective, however, is that Mellencamp mai<es his point by singing about regular people in everyday situations, rat­her than preaching self-righteously. 
He comes up glaringly short, however, on the album's last two songs. Lyrics such as "I've seen a lot of things/But I have not seen a lot of other things," and "R.O.C.K in the U.S.A." nearly undermine an ot­herwise invigorating album. 
the first two verses uses only some spare strumming on a lonely sound­ing acoustic guitar and an under­stated accordion. IfSimon. and Garfunkel had taken LSD, this is what they might have sounded like. 
The highlight of the album is 
definitely "Half The Way There," a 
classic-sounding, upbeat pop song, 
that sounds a lot like the Monkees 
in their heyday. "Half The Way" has no stand-out instrument, preferring to use the old guitar-bass-drum configuration, with a little jumpy, beer-hall piano added to flesh things out. The lyrics are as blatantly optimistic as lyrics get, just on the right side ofsappy. 
Nowyou're moving home with 
time to spare 
Love's the direction 
Andyou're . .. halfthe way there! 

-

On the whole, however, Mellen­camp has constructed a collection ofstrong, no-frills rock songs. He may never rival the Boss musically, 
' ~ ' 
but Scarecrow's lyrics place him well in front of the pack of Spring.~teen clones. 

rise: above most of today's radio garbage. 
-
Thursday, September 5, 1985-page 10



Sports Briefs 
200 Michigan football tickets will be offered 
for sale to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students next week. Anyone who is interested may sign up for a lottery tomorrow between l p.m. 
The Dancin' Irish will be meeting today at 5:15p.m. 
and 4;30 p.m. at the OBUD desk on the first floor of LaFortune. Lot­
on the concourse in the ACC. · The Obseroer 
tery winners will be posted on Sunday, and each winner will be allowed to purchase one or two tickets. -The Obseroer 
The ND Women's Cross Country Club 
will be meeting for practice today and everyday at 4:30 p.m. at the main circle. Anyone who is interested may attend. For more informa­A putt-putt golf tournament will be held by tion, call Mary Beth at 277-1983, Julia at 283-2720, Nancy at 283-NVA on Sunday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Teams of two players must 4222 or Kathleen at 283-3873.-The Obseroer register at the NVA office by today. Transportation to the putt-putt 
course in Mishawaka will be provided by NVA, and there will be a S4 charge per team. -The Obseroer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in the little Theatre in LaFortune. All new mem­bers are asked to bring their $1 0 membership fee so that scheduling A Northern Shaolin Kung Fu class will be 
oflessons may begin. -The Obseroer offered soon. Exercises, self-defense, techniques and forms from the Northern Sil Lum Dragon style will be taught. Anyone who is in­terested may attend a demonstration and meeting on Saturday at 
6:30 p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial Building. For moreThe ND/SMC Gymnastics Club wm begin information, call David at 283-1 766. -The Obseroer 
practice today at 4 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. · The Obser­
ver 
A light exercise class is being offered by NVAevery The ND Squash Club will be meeting tonight at Tuesday and Thursday at 5:I 0 p.m. in ACC Gym 4, beginning today.­
The Obseroer 

6:30 p.m. in the little Theatre in LaFortune. Anyone who is in­terested may attend. Both hardball and softball players are welcome. For more information, call William Mapother at 283-3451.-The Ob­
seroer 
Women's sports competitions in softball, 
soccer, tennis, golf and running (5K)will be part ofRun,Jane, Run, a women-in-sports weekend, which will be held by the YWCA Sept. 13 through Sept. I 5. Information and entry forms will be available until The ND track teams, both indoor and outdoor, will tomorrow at the NVA office in the ACC.-The Obseroer be meeting on Monday at 4:30p.m. in the football auditorium in the 
ACC. All prospective team members must attend. -The Obseroer 
see BRIEFS, page 11 
Koch back; Rams wait on Dickerson 
Associated Press 
Another National Football League holdout returned yesterday when offensive tackle Greg Koch resumed practice with the Green Bay Pack­ers. But with just four days to go un­til the NFL openers, Eric Dickerson headed a large contingent of key players still away from their teams 
Miami Dolphins quarterback Dan Marino, who shattered the single­season marks for passing yardage and touchdown passes last season, reported back last Saturday after walking out in a move aimed at speeding up the renegotiation ofhis contract. A couple of other hol­douts, Philadelphia Eagles wide receiver Mike Quick and Houston Oilers fullback Larry Moriarty also showed up in the past few days. 
Dickerson, however, remained home in Sealy, Texas, where he has been since the beginning of August. The man who set a new NFL rushing record with 2, I 05 yards last season wants to renegotiate a contract he signed with the Los Angeles Rams ago just before the salary scale ex­ploded in a bidding war with the United States Football League. 

7/Je Oh.~•·rr·er ,\;olrl" Damt· olfitT. lo<.llnl on !ht· rlurd lloor ol 1.11 or!llllc 
~!Udl"nl ( .<"IH<T, at'<'<" PI' da"itinl adn·n "'ng from <J .1m unl 11 1 p 111 . \lunda\ 
lhrough Frida\ lbe r!/Jserr·a ~aim \1an ·, otfite. lo<.llnl on lilt" 1iurd floor of 
Haggar Colkgt· Ct·nln. an·t·pr-''""itinh lmm 12 '" p 111 1111111 ·' p 111. \lon· 
da\· !hough l·nda\ lkadluw lor Ill"" d,l\ <ia"llinh " >, p 111 \II "''""ti,·d, 
muM he.: prl·pall.l. c:ilher 111 pt.·r-..on t•r In mJtl < hJ.r~~t.· I" I o tent-.. rwr tl\t.' t. tur.tl


Classifieds 
lc" '"' da\. 

BOOK BAG MIX-UP!! IF YOU GRABBED ATTENTION: NOTRE DAME AND HOI..Y NEED 4 TICKETS TO U.S.C, 2 TICKETS AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS AUDI· Gay? Lesb<an? M111 our boolh al Ac­THE WRONG BOOK BAG FROM UN· CROSS STUDENTS POSITONS TO MISS. AND 1 TICKET TO MICH. ST.. TIONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS tivltl81 Night? You are not alone and we're
NOTICES DER ONE OF THE OUTDOOR TABLES OPENED MONDAY. WEDNESDAY. DESPERATE!!! CAU COLLECT (914) SHENANIGANS Notre Dame's Singing here to help. For conf1dent1al information, AT THE BOOKSTORE ON WED. 8/28. AND FRIDAYS 11AM TO 1:30 PM. 338·1120. ASK FOR JIM OR SALLY. and Dancing Ensemble is looking lor fun contact Gays & Lesb<ana al Notre I'VE GOT YOUR BAG. MY BAG WAS APPLY IMMEDIATELY AT ST. MARY·s .................... and talenled <ndividuals 10 fiN lhe tolowing Dame/St. Mary's. P.O. Box 194. Noire THE SAME AS YOURS. EXCEPT THAT DINING HALL EOE. NEED 20R4 MICH ST GAs Will Pay$$ poeitions: Singera. Dancers. Techn<cian. Dame. IN 46556. 
$1D-$360 W~/Up liMiting CirOJ,.,.! MINE WAS EMPTY AND YOURS HAD A .................... Call Jim 283-3527 Photographer. P•anist, Bua GUitarist. IN­No ~/quota! Sincerely intereeted PACK OF TEABERRY GUM AND AN 
NO Prof. seeks reaponaible student to FORMATION MEETING Thursday. Sept MARIA, TAKE U.S. 31 NORTH TO rulh Mlf·..sdreeaed envelope: Dept. AM· ELK COUNTY SAVINGS PEN IN IT. IF help with housewort<. erranda one fuM or DESPERATELY NEED THREE TICK· 5. 7:00pm Satellile Room. 2nd Floor CAMPUS VIEW' K.A 7Ct;G, PO Box 830. Woodalock. IL YOU EVER WANT TO SEE YOUR GUM two half days a week. 3 blocks from ETS TO THE MICHIGAN STATE GAMEII O'Shag AUDITIONS Monday, Sept 9. 60098. AND YOUR PEN AGAIN, CALL 2280. campua. 525.00. Ext. 7659 or 5212. 284-4099 6:00 -? Tour plana include Boeton, GO HAWAIIAN !II 
THANKS!! Chicago. Pinaburgh. AUanta. San D•ego All Campus Hawauan LUAU TYPING AVAIL.A8LE MODELS WANTED: ND·SMC STU­NEED 1 TICKET FOR MICHIGAN AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS AUDI­Friday, September 6 287-4082 
DENTS NEEDED FOR WOMEN'S FAs­STATE, 2 FOR SOUTHERN CAL, CALL TIONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS 4:45-6:45p.m. on Green F•etd HION PHOTOGRAPHY. SIZE 8-10. DAY TOMHAT3175 SHENANIGANS SHENANIGANS AUDI­MUSICAL CHAIRS starts al5:15REWARD-REWARD-REWARD!!! LOST: 
................................ 
RATE ft EXPENSES. 232-4944 FOR TIONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS sponsored by OLYMPUS Autofocua Camera tat Sat.
TYPING CALL CHitll 234-8117 
APPT. PLEAIE HELP! I NEED 3 G.A.'I TO SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS 'AROUND THE CORNER nlghl (8/31) at N.D Apta. pany. I wil pay 
THE ARIIY GAllE OCT.11 AND I and SAVE $$$ ON YOUR TEXTS!! USED BAaYIITTER WANTED for profeaaor's G.A.'I TO IIIU OR lltiiiiiiPPI. IF thanka for lhe help last spring St Jude UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES big bucks for Ita return or Info leading to Its 
return. If you have II and won't return It,CLASS BOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD. 

two young children. Occaaional after· YOU CAN HELP, PLEAIE CALL IIEL Aloha. PRESENT THIS AD AND RECEIVE AN 
could you at leut send me the film? Juat 

noons. evenings and weekends. Ten AT3433. WARNING: IF YOU RECEIVE A CALLflip the switch on the bottom of your n­
EXTRA $5 OFF OF $50 PURCHASE. minute drive from campua. Call 288-6428 FROM ED GAUSMAN OR GRACE 215
camera to rewind it, open it. and mail it to 

PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 SO. BEND evenings AND YOU HAVEN'T MET ME THEN ATTENTION ALL COLLEGE
225 Flenner. Ita lhe leut you could do inAVE, 233-2342. 

Need 1 or 2 Mich St Tix. Call Bill3515. $$ YOU AND I ARE HAVING A JOKE REPUBLICANS: THERE WILL BE A
return for lhe nice gift. RIDE NEEDED no object. PLAYED ON US. I DO NOT HAVE YOUR SHORT ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING HAIRCUTS 3 50-REFERENCES. CALL 
TO MAIL SO LAUGH AT THEM BUT DON'T THIS THURSDAY AT 7 PM O'SHAG. BIUX4100 
UOFILL. HELP' HELP! desperately need one or BELIEVE IT. PLEASE A TTENO ner Hall vecinitiea. The box contained per­
LOST: One blue NO box. Loet from Flen­

SEPT. 6 CALL MARK 1009 two tickets to MSU game cost no issue! Ride needed to 
Unlveraity of Mleeouri. P'i.:wii.iiiii.:P:::,·iiii!Eo·3·a.A:;ii·ro
sonal items and books. Very inlereated in Call Dave at 2048 VOLLEYBALL for LOGAN Columbia or St. Louie on 9-27; return. 9-MASS. BOUND • NEED RIDERS. Leave ................... THE ARIIY GAllE OCT. 11 AND 8 VOLLEYBALL for LOGAN 
ge1t10g the personal itema back. Any info 

29. Call2661, late nlghta. call John at 1223. Reward offered. tonite & bact< Mon. morning. GO FOR IT! I have Michigan and Mich. St.lickets. Beat G.A.'I TO IIIU OR IIIIIIIIIPPI. IF VOLLEYBALL lor LOGAN 
............................. ED234·7083 offer. Call Eric 1527 YOU CAN HELP, CALL MELAT3433. S1gn up TONIGHT al dinner 1n North. EXPERT TYPING 2n-B534 AFTER 5:30 
Soulh & St. Mary's dining haifa and at 

Riders to/from dntwn Chicago. Leaving I need 2 and/or 4 GA's for Michigan Stale Sentors!Seniora!Seniors! Ice Cream So­LaFortune during lunch -$6.00 entry 11a.m. 9n.return 11a.m. 9/8 Call2909. u soon u pouible. Call Mike at 1806 ciai:Only 25centa:Thuraday. Fieklhouae fee/leam Mal17pm.Be There!Only 25cents' NEED MSU TICKET BAD CALL ANDY Actor aeeka direction for rote in future per­
...... ........................... I FOR RENT 
Sludent needed weekends a.m. or p.m. to 
LOST/FOUND I 
1._.... --..-........-......•-..... _______. 272-6783 SENIORS• Take your Prof. lo formances.
uaist 15-yr·old phya. disabled boy. 259­Private enltance. two room furnished. Lunch:Fnday
Lunch!Senior/FacuHy
0622. utilities paid. Call mornings 288-0955. 

2 mich. stale lix. Beet offer. beax arts SEPT. 6.Aiumn1-Sen.or Club. IRISH CLUB OfiTHOOONTlC RETAINER found 8/28 poster wanted. Mike 3380 
The Irish Link will hold ita organizalionatin Admin Bldg. If it fita you it"l youra. Call 
Are you wearmg a bra? I need change. meet1ng tonight al 7PM on lhe second Brian 239-5n2 to ctalm. campus.Kitchen.bath.walk in cl.234-6647 Need 4 MSU lickels, 283·1940 floor of LaFortune in lhelnternalional Stu­ZIMM(PAL). JAMIE, PETER(BUD). denta Lounge. All Interested atudenta are 
EFF.APT.cloee to 

FOR SALE
REWARD-REWARD-REWARD-­
Need 4 GA'S FOR ARMY GAMEII CHESTER, MUGGA. ZOO. POWER­invited to anend. LOST AMETHYST and GOLD BEADED 
.............................. 

PLEASE CALL 272-4540 DOG. AL· FRIDAY SPM AUGUSTA-BE BRACELET. GREAT SENTIMENTAL 
Female roommate needed. $95 mo. 

THERE' FROM '"GEL'" AND '"BABE" JOEL VALUE TO ME!! IF FOUND. PLEASE 
Cloae to campua. Call 272·24 78 ALRIGHT. who needs floppy diska for 

$$SNEED AT LEAST 2 MSU TIX. MUST cocktails beg<nclue? Only $1.50. and guaranteed. Call
CALL GRETCHEN, AT 3299, Nice furniahed houae good neighbortlood KNOW BY FRI NITE. CALL LYNN 283-IRISH GARDENS at9p.m.
Johnat3673. yyyBEATtheBOOKSTORE approx. 1 mile north of NO 2n-3604/683­
4121 IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS be prompl Putaar watch !oat in South dining hall 
Yes! We are open for busineas! -pbh during lunch on Tueeday. If found, pi­
8889. 

Come in and buy a flower for a friend62 VALIANT. REBUILT ENGINE, CALIF
cal Mike at 1644. High aentimentalvalue. We are located in the buemenl of La THE A.C.C. DOME ... conqured by only a
Female roommate needed at Campus 

CAR-SOLID BODY, STEEL RADIALS Will pay your next semester's book bill (or 
$REWARD$ Fortune select f-upon reaching the p<nacle weView Apta. Please call 272~704 
MANY NEW PARTS. $750 OR BEST OF­name your price) for 4 Or 5 USC G.A.a. 
BUT we do have a new door. so come 1n were 10 HIGH and OLD MUD never Red and blue wallet, the I.D. cards are im­through lhe Huddle IUied to good!
FER. 287-7400 OR 239-6226 Call4112. SPACE FOR 2. N.D. APTS.• 
por1ant. Pleue call J .A. x-2060 
$112/MONTH. CALL 289-519il. We're look<ng forward to seeing you
FOR SALE: 2 matching -preada $50 NEED MICHIGAN STATE TIX BADLY! 
again!! MIKE. A LOFT IS NOT A TOY A LOFT IS
2600 CALL MIKE ] 288-5355 
LOST Old brown dockaodera al Dunea on Remember we are your ONE-STOP­NOT A RIDE NEITHER IS THE A.C.C. Saturday Golf club at Burke G.C. : Haig­FLOWER-SHOP!! DOME
ITEREO EQUIPIIENTIIUitra Sand Wedge on 18th hole $reward$ 
IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS at2397 
WANTED 
Diacount Prices. Over 50 Major Brandl. 
DESPERATE! I NEED 10 GA"S FOR IRISH GARDENS HI ANNFuM WIIIT8ntee. VISA/MASTER. Call NAVY GAME! $$$PLEASE CALL JULIE SCOTT: 2Q-2088
FOUND: Gold cha10 bracelel outside BP. 284-4317. Hey LeHy. too many men, too little time• Call Mary at 1367. wanted 2 gaa to any home games call Wordprocessing Babe 
............................ 
......................... 

272-3491 DESPERATELY NEED 3 MICHIGAN Call Dotoree2n-6045
1981 MUSTANG: 43000 MILES; GREAT 
LOST!!! 3 KEYS ON COIN PURSE STATE TICKETS! CALL JENNY 284· Welcome Home Pan. We milled you! Us CHAIN. IT'S BLACK AND RELATIVELY 
CONDITION; $3000 NEG.; DAVE 1980 
COMPUTER RETAIL STORE NEEDS 5405! NORMAL LOOKING. PUUEASE FIND STUDENTS, HOURS FLEXIBLE PART Jeff Herman--How was your summer? Hey He-Man, I made it withoul any
Car apkra-round inmount,3-way-Pioneet 
IT FOR ME!! CAU PAULA AT 3570 IF TIME $3.35 HOUR 2n·5026 ASK FOR You're in the same core courses u one of problema (almoet). Your idol FOUND. 
T&-168. Pioneer T&-1655 Markus 2n­
RAY my bee! fnends. He said you hardly ever
0840 

Need 2-4 M$U GA's for my bosa!Help me say anything. He also said thai you·re Hey ReRa. Bryan awaits!' Gueu who? FOUD: WATCH in Flenner. Call 1068 and Save my job! call $colt al x1803 
Need ride to TERRE HAUTE any lairly intelligenl, which I already knew. deacrlbeit. -ends or break. Call Tom x1545 Love. Your Secret Admirer. Hi M.S.! Where have you been lately? nights. Stop up some lime. Me LOST· gold T1180t watch with brown band 
Does anyone have lhe booka (brolc..,). lffound. call1326ao I can gel to 
DELIVERY PERSON WANTED. MUST .L----UNDERSTANDING GENETICS 3RD ED Thanka 10 much for your help Joe and BiH'
..............

...~.-I.C_K_ET_S----~~ lmm;~~SO~~~~mm
clue on time. 
HAVE OWN CAR PART-TIME or LAW AMONG NAT10N8: AN INTRO. Love. Ann 
EVENINGS. APPLY IN PERSON WIUING TO TRADE LSU. MISS, ARMY DUCTlON TO PUBUC INTERNA· LOST; black tape cue with collection of 
RICCO'S OLDE HOUSE PIZZERIA, 130 NAVY FOR MSU. CAUSCOTT 1924. TlONAL LAW, 11181. and not wanllhem? IT IS POSSIBLE TO FALL IN LOVE IN A CUMitee and a radio adaptor . If found, 
DIXIEWAY NO..ACROSS FROM BIG C Interested in lnler-Varsily Christian Fel­I will pay you to take lhem off your hands. MONTH, OR LESS call Kathy at 283-3690. LUMBER. lowship? Call Sheila 1985. Kevin 1883 Call Mary a! 1367. 
I DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHIGAN ............................................ LEMANS HALL HAPPY HOUR Haggar 
KEYS AND SMC I.D. LOST· ST. LOUIS 
Need ride or riders to IKinois Stale Univer­STATE TICKETS • WILLING TO OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. KEYS AND SMC 10 LOST • ST. LOUIS College Center Friday 7-9pm 21 1.0. re­STREET AREA IF FOUND PLEASE aity. LMve Friday. Sept. 51h return Sun­NEGOTIATE ON PRICES. CALL ANN CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 STREET AREA IF FOUND PLEASE quired $2. Purchase tict<ets at Saga or CALL284-4021. day Sept. 7th. Ca11Johnal2153 MARIE AT 284-4159. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. CALL284-4021 LeMans Lobby 4:30-6:30pm. 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, September 5, 1985 -page 11 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 10 
Interhall soccer rosters are due in the NVA office hy Wednesday. An entry fee of S2'5 must accompany each hall's roster. -The Ohserr•er 
Graduate touch football reams of six players each may register as a department until Wednesday at the NVA office in the ACC.-The Obserr•er 
An open water polo tournament will be 
held by NYA. Teams of 10 players (with at least four women) may register by Wednesday by paying a $10 fee at the NVA office in the ACC. -The Obsen•er 
An outdoor volleyball tournament will 
be held by NVA. Teams of at least nine players may register until Wednesday at the NVA office in the ACC. This elimination tourna­ment Is nmited to 32 teams. -The Observer 
A scramble golf tournament will be held by 
NVA on Sunday, Sept. I '5. Students, faculty and staff may register as individuals or pairs. The deadline for submitting S4 greens fees to the NVA office ls Wednesday.-The Observer 
More NVAinformation is available by calling 239­6100 or by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 

McEnroe, Navratilova advance, Graf shocks fourth-seeded Shriver 
AAoclatc:d Press NEW YORK · Defending cham­pion)ohn McEnroe, his dazzling and devastating display of tennis halted momentarily by a controversial call, advanced to the semifinals ofthe U.S. open Tennis Championships last night with a 6-1, 6-0, 7-S victory over Sweden'sjoakim Nystrom. He will meet third-seeded Mats Wilander, who advanced to the semis earlier in the day when yet another seeded Swede, Anders jar­ryd, retired in the third set with an upset stomach. The women's semifinal pairings were completed when young Steffi Graf of West Germany surprised fourth-seeded Pam Shriver and Mar­tina Navratilova crushed Zina Gar­rison. The other women's semifinal will pit top-seeded Chris Evert Uoyd, going after her seventh U.S. open singles crown, against No. 3 Hana Mandlikova of Czechoslovakia. The men's semifinals will be com­pleted Thursday when No. 2 Ivan Lend! of Czechoslovakia plays seventh-seeded Yannick Noah of 
France and No. 4 jimmy Connors takes on unseeded Heinz Gunthardt ofSwitzerland. 
"I was playing about as well as I can play for a couple of sets," McEnroe said. 
After Nystrom, the No. 10 seed, fought off a break point to hold serve in the second game of the match, McEnroe went on a 13-game tear, completely overwhelming his out­matched opponent. By then, McEnroe had wrapped up the first two sets and had a 2-0 lead in the third. 
And Nystrom, who beat Boris Be­cker in a fourth-round match, had been able to win three consecutive points only once In the match. That was in the sixth game ofthe opening set to take a 40-love lead before McEnroe came back to break the Swede's service yet again. 
But in the third game of the third set, McEnroe hit what he thought was the final shot to break Nystrom's serve. The talented but tempetuous left-hander from New York walked off the court and sat in his Chair, ready for the chan~e-over. 
Get our new $49* software module when you buy an HP-41. 
It's a deal that has no equal, for a calculator that has no equal. 
Our new HP-41 Advantage software module packs 12K of ROM. One and a half times the capacity of any other HP-41 module. Large enough to hold the most popular engineering, mathematical and financial pro­grams ever written for the HP-41. 
You get comprehensive advanced matrix math func­tions, roots of equations and polynomials, integrations, base conversion and logic functions, and time value of money functions. 
Our new module is also sub-programmable. So you can quickly access just a portion of a program, or trans­fer that section to your own program. 
And it's even menu-driven. That eliminates overlays and reduces the number of prompts. . · In short, you get everything it's going to take to help ._you make the grade in everything from Linear ~lgebra to Physics to Electronics to Statics and Dynamics. 
The HP-41 is a deal all its own. Its operating system is so advan~ed, it doesn't need an "eguals" key. Little wonder tt's preferred by more engmeers 
than any other calculator. . This is a limited time offer. Call (800) FOR­HPPC. Ask for Dept. 6588. We'll instantly give ·· you the name of a dealer who has no equal. Do it now.•The phone call is free. But our new module won't be for long. 
FJ/dl HEWLET-T 
a:~ PACKARD 
I'm-;; -;1udent":.ho has ;;-;;-equ;l.'Her;;-m7 proof-of-purchase to prove it. Please send me my free software !lllldule. 
Name 
Address 

City State Zip 
Phone Number 

HP-41 Serial Number Mail coupon with proof-of-purchase to: Hewlett-Packard Co., c/o Direct Mail Projects/M-M, P. 0. Box 10598, Portland, Ore~ton 97209 Offer not r~deoemablr at HP drain fiP·41 mu1f bt punhu..-d ht'twcrn R/15/85 and 11/1 ~/A5 J..nvrlopu mu11t ht' po•tmarkt"d hy 12/31/RS. (Oood only'" l 1S.1\. Vutd whrrr prohthitrd.tuPd or tt'!llrtCtf'tJ hy f8W Ur f'mpfn,t't' IIUfl hn"r' nnl rfllil.lhfr -\Ifill.\ fl .14 Wt•rlt" fur rlrfl\'rrY 
But umpire Steve Winyard of England, heeding Nystrom's plea, ruled that the point should be replayed because a baseline judge had called a ball out during the rally, then corrected himself. 
The Swede won the next three points to hold serve, beginning a five-game run that saw him take a S-2 lead in the third set. 
McEnroe then began complaining about the television microphone held at courtside, unleashing a barrage of words at the umpire whenever he was near the chair. At the beginning of the fifth game was given a Code ofConduct warning for verbal abuse. 
It appeared Jarryd began cramp­ing midway through the third set, shortly before he retired. He failed to chase down balls he earlier had reached. 
Still, the end came suddenly, one point into the sixth game. Wilander hit a service winner and Jarryd walked to the net, telling his fellow Swede that the match was over. 
But the shocker ofthe ninth day of this Grand Slam tournament was Grafs two-hour, 46-minute victory over Shriver -and the way It was ac­complished. 
"My effort couldn't be any more," Shriver said. "It was about two points too less. 
"I don't think I've ever gone into a match wanting to win so much in my life. I haven't played a semifinals of a big tournament in two years. I've fal­len short In a lot of quarterfinals." 
Graf, who won the exhibition ten­nis event in the Los Angeles Olympic Games last year, hit 80 percent of her first serves and was almost per­fect on her groundstrokes off both sides. Everytime Shriver, a serve­and-volley specialist, came to the net, Graffound that small space for a passing shot, being especially ac­curate with her cross-court back­hand. 
BEAT the LSAT! 
Get 96 pagu of Tricks th.ot Work for Higher Score>. 

The LSA T Exposed: 
Tricks from 12 Tests 
Srnd  $11  <o:  TESTING  I"Oit  THE  Pl11LIC  
(let Chu Mail)  1108  hulu  
lerlt.ehy •  U  94702  

Canyouaffordtogamble 
with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,orMeAT? 
Probably not. Great grades 
alone may not be enough to 
impress the grad school of 
your choice. · 
Scores play a part. And 
that'~ how Stanley H. Kaplan 
can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches 
test-taking techniques, reviews 
course subjects, and increases 
the odds that you'll do the best 
you cando. 
So if you've been out of 
school for a while and need a 
refresher, or even if you're fresh 
out of college, do what over 1 
million students have done. 
Take Kaplan. Why take l
a chance with your 
career? 
KAPLAN 
STANttl_l:f. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl GNTI'R lTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219)"272·4135 

['(~ 12511 
•tt S SU!l)r.!f'Kft'tlli._l J11 It l' 
-------------~ --~ 
The Observer Thursday, September 5, 1985 -page 12 


Despite loss of Griffin, Lantz feels Irish defensive line can dominate 
By MARTY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
Defensive units in the game of football are often referred to in animal-like terms. The linebackers are the heart and mind of the beast, while the defensive line is called upon to be the "teeth" of the unit, chewing up ballcarriers and trying to feast on unsuspecting quarter­backs. 
Throughout summer workouts, the defensive line ofthe Notre Dame football team was successfully shar­pening up and looking polished. Then two weeks ago, the unit lost a tooth. 

Greg Dingens 
Junior nose tackle Mike Griffin, who was a solid performer for the Irish at nose tackle last season and who was counted on to lead the front again this year, went down with a badly broken ankle. Doctors were forced to insen pins in the injured area, and the 6-4, 254-pound Griffin was lost to the Irish cause for the season. 
Although the loss of the bruising Griffin figures to take some of the sting out of the defensive bite, line coach Rick Lantz was impressed with the development ofhis charges over the summer. In fact, he feels thft they may be able to repeat or exceed the successes of last season when they were a key part ofa squad which ranked twelfth nationally in pass defense. 
"Mike Griffin's injury was very serious," admits Lantz. "He was our most experienced starter, and now we're losing that valuable ex­perience. (The injury) also caused us to lose some depth and some flexibility. It now means that two people are going to have to play both tackle and nose tackle. 
"But, with the exception of Grif­fin's injury," continues Lantz, "we have not missed much practice time. And I think we've made real progress. We have not had many 

Rick Lantz 
practices where they have not made strides. We can still be a dominating. force this season." 
To fill the gaping hole left by Grif­fin, 6-2, 248-pound Mike Kiernan will step up into the middle at nose tackle. Kiernan, a senior, saw action in five contests last season at nose tackle after missing both of the previous two campaigns because of injuries. 
Flanking Kiernan in the starting three-man front will be tackles Eric Dorsey and Wally Kleine. The 6-8, 278-pound Kleine is being tabbed as a potential All-American ~t right tackle by many experts, while the equally imposing Dorsey, at 6-5, 265 

Mike Kiernan 
pounds switches over to the left tackle spot after playing the previous three seasons at the nose tackle. Dorsey was forced from his natural position to the nose tackle those years because of the presence of Mike Gann, who has now departed to the ranks of the profes­sionals. 
"Dorsey was a nose tackle all last season simply because we wanted our best men to play," says Lantz. "We had to do that because Gann was already at left tackle. But we'll continue to play some defenses with (Dorsey) at nose tackle." 


ND alumnus Younger on National crew team 
By GREG ANDRES 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame crew dub is a team which does not often gain much recognition. The accomplish­ments of Notre Dame alumnus John Younger, however, a member of the graduating class of 1985, have brought unhearlded attention to the program. Younger, a member of the ND crew dub for four years, has become a recognized figure In the rowing world by earning a spot on the U.S. National Crew team. 
Positions on the U.S. National team boat are usually reserved for oarsmen from established varsity programs, exclusively from the East and West coasts, such as Harvard, Yale and Washington. The fact that Younger comes from a Midwest school which does not even have crew as a varsity spon, and thus has access to limited funding, is simply amazing. Mike Songer, president of the ND crew club, believes Younger's accomplishments "shocked the world rowing com­munity." 
Younger is now competing for the 
U.S. team in Belguim, one of the team's stops on their European tour. Younger's selection to the team comes after a year when he barely missed making the U.S. Olympic 
. team's first boat. The team of which Younger is presently a member is equivelent to an Olympic team, however, since this is an non­Olympic year and the team com­petes in Europe. 
Younger is one of the top members of the U.S. boat in the lightweight division. He was able to gain a position on the team despite a broken rib sustained while par­ticipating in the spon. Younger's ac­complishments, despite his limited access to the best atmosphere pos­sible for a rower, has classified him as "simply the most astonishing oarsmen in ND history," according to Songer. 
Senior Greg Dingens, at 6-5, 254 pounds will provide some needed versatility to the line by coming in to spell his teammates. Dingen's role will be, in the eyes of Lantz, much more than that of merely a reserve player. 
"We consider Greg Dingens a starter," says the second-year Irish assistant. "He can play left or right tackle, and we want fresh people in the game, because fresh people make a difference. In fact, right now, we plan to play six defensive linemen throughout the course of the game." 
The other pair of linemen who will be called upon to help nut in the trenches are sophomores Matt Din­gens and Jeff Kunz. The 6-6, 230­pound Dingens, brother of fellow lineman Greg, moved over this sum­mer from tight end and has progressed rapidly. Although this has impressed observers, Dingens still has no game experience at his new position. Kunz, meanwhile, got his feet wet last season in prepera­tion for his more contributory role this year. 
Although the injury to Griffin meant that these six players would be called upon to work a bit harder, Lantz feels that their development this summer and their past ex­perience will have prepared them sufficiently to face their opponent's challenges. 
"We're experienced and talented," says Lantz. "And we have 

-not made many changes in our coaching staff or scheme this year. But we have to prove ourselves. Right now, we're not ready to play Michigan, but we're not supposed to be ready yet. We're simply coming along and moving on schedule." 
If the teeth of the Irish line can align themselves properly, it will be Notre Dame football fans who will be wearing the beautiful smiles. 


The Obocrvcr /Paul Pahornky 

Sophomore fullback Frank Slams, sboum here in action during practice last week, figures to be tbe starting fullback wben Notre Dame opens its season at Michigan on Sept. 14. Marty Burns looks at the lrisb defensive line situation at left, and Larry Burke bas Football Notebook on page 16. 
Football Ticket Distribution 
Freshmen Today 
It's pretty hard not to like an Army you'll also receive all the prestige, privileges Rare Scholarship. and respect that go with being a leader in to­
Just look at what it covers: full tuition, day'sArmy. books, lab fees. Plus, it pays you up to $1,000 And don't forget, the Army Nurse each school year it's in effect. Corps is part of a worldwide organization. 
But what we think you'lllike best Which means you'll have the opportunity to about our scholarship is the commitment. work in different cities around the country. Because it leads to a commission in the Army And different countries around the world. Nurse Corps (ANC) after graduation. Without losing seniority or benefits. 
As an Army nurse, you'll belong to So make your commitment to nursing one ofthe largest, most comprehensive health really pay off. Begin your future in the Army care teams in the world. Training on state­Nurse Corps. And that begins with Army of-the-art equipment. And Uliing the latest Rare. techniques. For more information about scholarship 
An Army nurse is an Army officer, opportunities, contact the Army ROTC Pro­too. So along with professional recognition, fessor of Military Science on your campus. 
lntereated? CaD Capt. Domingo at239-6264 


The Observer Thursday, September 5, 1985 -page 13 
youthful team with good freshman talent and a strong schedule. 1=7~~f,;~~~-:-::------::-----:-~;--:---:-------, 
"OurideaisthatwewanttogetasSoccer All you have to do is sign up ... 
good as we could be as fast as we

continuedfrom page 16 
could be," said Grace, "and we're be long before Virginia was going to not going to do that by playing a lot 
to get involved in the fast-paced excitement of newspaper be down our throat..~ again. of the teams that used to be on the production. Positions are available on any day of the week ­
"Our transition to defense was schedule. Our schedule is awesome, 
some are paid. If you have worked for The New York Times 
good because we were on the and the kids are going to have to 
defensive posture most of the game survive and fight for every game. or have never even read a newspaper you are encouraged to due to calliber of the team we were "The kids are fighters," continued apply at the Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune playing." Grace. "The one thing that I was Student Center. 
Owrall, Grace Is plea~ed with the really pleased about over the 

The Observer
efforts on the part of his players and weekend was that we never gave up I~fl~~~~ is looking to build a strong and and we never let down." L.: 
Choosing a long distance companyis a lotlikechoosing a roommate. 

Living together with someone for the first time can be an "educational" experience. 
And living with a long distance company isn't any different. Because some companies may not give you all the services you're used to getting from AT&T. 
For instance, with some companies you have to spend a certain amount before you qualify for their special volume discounts. With some others, voice quality may vary. 
But when you choose AT&T, there won't be any surprises when you move in. You'll get the same high-quality; trouble-free service you're used to. 
With calls that sound as close as next door. Guaranteed 60% and 40% discounts off our Day Rate-so you can talk during the times you can relax. Immediate credit for wrong numbers. Operator assistance and collect calling. 
So when you're asked to choose a long dis­tance company; choose AT&T. Because whether you're into Mozart or metal, quality is the one thing everyone can agree on. Reach out and touch someone~ 

ATs.T 
The right choice. 
©1985 AT&T Communications 
--~--------------­
The Observer Thursday, September 5, 1985-page 14 
No, tbis isn't American Legion baseball. It's Candlestick Park in San Francisco, where tbe Giants were running on empty attendance-wise for Tuesday's game witb Pbtladelpbia. Fans stayed awayfrom tbe park in record numbers, witb only 1,632 turning out to see tbe hapless Giants lose to tbe Pbillies, 4-3, in 13 innings. Tbe crowd was tbe smallest at Candlestick since just 1,033 watched tbe Giants play tbe Houston Astros on Sept. 14, 1977. Recap of yesterday's major league action below. 
Carter's two HR's tie reco~d, help red-hot Mets pound San Diego, 9-2 
Auodated PreA 
SAN DIEGO -Gary Caner of the New York Mets tied a major league record last night when he belted a pair of home runs, giving him five in his last two games, to lead the Mets in a 9-2 rout ofthe San Diego Padres. 
Caner belted homers in each of his first three timt:s at bat Tuesday night when the Mets defeated the Padres 8-3. 
Caner homered off Padres starter Roy Lee Jackson in his first at bat yes­terday, giving him four homers in five trips to the plate. After striking out in the third, the Mets catcher hit a run-scoring single in the fifth. He hit his second homer of the evening with two outs in the seventh off Padres reliever Ed Wojna. 
The two home runs gave Caner 24 for the year and eight in his last six games. 
Carter became the IIth player in major league history to hit five home runs in two consecutive games. The last player to do it was Dave Kingman of the Chicago Cubs, July 27-28, 1979. 
The victory kept the Mets one game behind the front-running St. Louis Cardinals. 
Cardinals 4, Reds 3-­
ST. LOUIS-Mike Jorgensen drilled a run-scoring single to left-center field with none out in the ninth in­ning, capping a two-run rally and leading the St. Louis Cardinals to a dramatic 4-3 victory over the Cin­
cinnati Reds last night.  
Jorgensen's  hit  came  off  Ron  
Robinson, 5-4, following  a crucial  
Cincinnati error.  

Todd Worrell, I-0, the third St. Louis pitcher, picked up his first major league victory, pitching the final l 2-3 innings. 
Pete Rose went l-for-3 with a walk, moving him within four hits of Ty Cobb's all-time major league hit record of 4,191. 
Astros 11, Cubs 6 
CHICAGO -Pinch-hitter Jerry Mumphrey started a sixth-inning uprising with a two-run double and pinch-hittter Tim Tolman finished it with a three-run home run as Hous­ton pounded the Chicago Cubs 11-6 yesterday. 
Mumphrey, who stayed in the game after batting for Dickie Thon, 
added  a  three-run  homer  in  the  
seventh  as  Houston  won  for  the  
seventh time in eight games.  

Chicago reliever Johnny Abrego walked Glenn Davis and Phil Garner to open the sixth and Mumphrey doubled to pull Houston within 6-5. 
Ron Meridith, 2-2, replaced Johnny Abrego. Mike Scott, 15-7, gave up six runs in five innings. 
Royals 6, White Sox 5 
KANSAS city, Mo. -Chicago left fielder Luis Salazar misjudged Pat Sheridan's two-out fly ball in the I Oth inning and Darryl Motley scored from third base to give the Kansas City Royals a 6-5 victory over the Chicago White Sox last night. 
The victory kept the Royals one­and-a-half games behind California in the American League West. 
Yankees 4, Mariners 3 
NEW YORK -Surprise starter Rich Bordi hurled 6 2-3 innings in his first start of the season and Don Mat­tingly and Andre Robertson each drove in two runs as the New York Yankees defeated the Seattle Mariners 4-3 last night for their fifth consecutive triumph. 
Coupled with Toronto's 5-4 loss 
to Cleveland, the Yankees climbed 
within two-and-a-half games of the 
Blue Jays in the American League 
East. 
Bordi, 5-5, allowed one run and 
six hits before Neil Allen relieved in 
the seventh. 
Loser Mark Langston, 7-12, retired 
the first nine Yankees he faced, 
before running into trouble. 
Indians 5, Blue Jays 4 
TORONTO -Light-hitting Otis Nixon slammed a tie-breaking two­run homer in the ninth inning and two Cleveland relievers pitched out of a bases-loaded jam in the bottom of the ninth as the Indians edged the Toronto Blue Jays 5-4 last night. 
Tied 3-3, Brook Jacoby opened the ninth against Toronto relief ace Tom Henke, 3-2, with a single and the switch-hitting Nixon, batting .231 entering the game, lined the ball over the right-field fence for his third homer ofhis career. 
Bryan Clark, 2-3, a former mem­ber of the Blue Jays, pitched two­thirds of an inning and was the winner. 
Angels 5, Tigers 2 
DETROIT -Brian Downing belted 
a two-run homer to back the 
combined seven-hit pitching of}ohn 
Candelaria and Donnie Moore as the 
California Angels defeated the 
Detroit Tigers 5-2 last night. 
The Angels started the contest 
one-and-a-half games ahead of the 
Kansas City Royals in the American 
League West. 
Candelaria, 4-1 since the Angels 
acquired him in a trade with the Pit­
tsburgh Pirates on Aug. 2, allowed 
one run and five hits in six innings. 
LoserJack Morris, 14-9, gave up just 
three hits but four runs in seven in­
nings. 

Baseball Standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Eut Eut 
w L Pet. 08 w L Pet. 08 St. Louis eo 50 .615 Toronto e2 50 .621 NewYort< eo 52 .606 1 New York 79 52 .603 2.5 Montreal 71 61 .538 10 Detroit 71 61 .538 11 Philadelphia 64 67 .4e9 16.5 Balfimore 69 61 .531 12 Chicago 63 68 .4e1 17.5 Boeton 63 68 .4e1 1e.5 Pittllburgh 42 ee .323 38 Milwaukee 60 70 .462 21 
Cleveland 4e e4 .364 34 

WMI WMI 
.592 California 75 58 .564 
Cincinnati 69 62 .527 e.5 Kansas City 72 58 .554 1.5 San Diego 69 63 .523 9 Oakland 68 65 .511 7 Houston 63 68 Los Angeles 77 53 .4e1 t4.5 Chicago 64 67 .4e9 10 
75 .427 21.5 Minnesota 60 71 .458 14 • 79 
At1anta 56 San Francisco 52 .397 25.5 Seatt1e 60 73 .451 15 
Texas 49 e2 .374 25 

Y•terday'8 RMUI!8 Houston 11. Chicago 6 Cahlorn1a 5. Detroit 2 San Francisco 4, Philadelphia 3 
Y•terday'• Result8 

Cleveland 5. Toronto 4 Pittllburgh 2, At1anta 0 
BaHimore 6. Oakland 1 

St. Louis 4, Cincinnati 3 New York 4. Seattle 3 New York 9, San Diego 2 
Kanoaa C1ty 6. Ch1cago 5 (10innga.) M1lwaukee 11, Minnesota10 Only games scheduled 

Los Angeles 4, Montreal 2 
• 
SPECIALS 
Thursday "Wine Cooler Night" 
Seagrams California Coolers Bartles & James Florida Citrus 
BIG GIVEAWAYS 

Sunshine Promotions Present 
The Guitar VIrtuoso Is coming to South Bendll 
Friday, September 6 8:00p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium 
A11 seats reserved $13 .00 
Tickets available at the Century Center Box Office, Night Winds (Niles and Mishawaka), J.R.'s (La Porte) and Supersounds (Elkhart). 
.•.Don't miss the hottest 

'JI['~~C]L~------------------------------------------Thu_r_s_d.ay•'•S•e•p-te_m_b_e_r_s_._1_9_B_s_-_P•a•g•e·1~5
Berke Breathed 
''60RBIICHCV 51NG5 71?/K:TO!?fJ : 17/!?N/P / 811TTVCK5 ! " 
\ 


The kegger lasted well into the night, and on the following morning Dale thrust his foot into a nest of cranky, hung-over, stimulus-response scorpions. 

TOPAY'5 'f'!(IIVPA ~ ~.5H ff(()t!lH€' U61?11RY .' ca+1ft.6TE WITH C115ll»l 
fl€11/l(./Ne ... 
I 
ACROSS 1 Typeol prisoner 
6 Vaticinator 10 Bucket 14 Maniple 15 Pa. port 16 River to the 
Humber 17 Ricochet 18 Old clothes 19 Writer Leon 20 Park sign 23 Eden resident 24 Cross 25 Owns 28 Repeatedly 31 "-of the 
Field" 36 Single time 38 Le Galllenne 
and Gabor 40 Prima­41 Road sign 44 Friendless one 45 Norman of TV 46 Makes lace 47 Cause to like 49 Pretense 51 Old car 52 lll·mannered 
fellow 54 Near the 
center 56 Library sign 65 "-Want Is 
You" 66 Showy Air. 
flower 67 Pry 68 Control 69-qua non 70 Heath 71 Woman of rank 72 Contemptible 
chap 73 Pauses 
DOWN 1 Make firm 2 Dies­3 Go 4 Go to Gretna 
Green 5 Withdraw 6 One-lime slave 7 QED word 
sv~ rm 51/1?€.WHIIT'S I iff fl(€rrY SI/Re... 
IT I
SIIY r 
I 

,.., 1955 Tnbune Media Services, Inc. 9/5/85 
All Roghts Reserved 
8 Shell crew 
9 Close again 10 Decant 11 Halo 12 Egyptian 
goddess 13 Not so much 21 Restless 
excitement 22 Musical 
theorist 25 Name in cards 26 Negative 
particle 27 Lift of a wave 29 Malevolent 30 Storms 32 Storage place 33 "First-, 
first..." 34 Related on 
mother's side 35 Dictum 37 Robt.­39 Iranian title 42 Northern 
constellation 
Wednesday's Solution 

9/5/85 
43 Walk firmly 57 Olive genus 48 Jaunty 58 Meager 50 Flourman 59 Excavation 53 The South 60 Muse number 55 Farm machine 61 Highlander 
man 62 Rara­56 Aromatic 63 Cult plant 64 Notable times 

Campus 
•8:00 
a.m. -4:30p.m. -Exhibition and Sale of Art Prints, LaFortune Center Ballroom, Office ofStudent Activities 

•4:00 
p.m.. Workshop on resumes, Tips on Resumes, Joan Mcintosh, Career and Place­ment Services, Conference Room, Career and Placement Office, Lower Level, Memorial Library 

•7:30 
p.m. -Windsurfing Club Organlza­tional Meedng, LaFortune Little Theater 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Roast Breast ofTurkey with Dressing Beef Stuffed Pepper Huungarian Noodle Bake Cheese Steak Sandwich 
TV Tonight 
6:00p.m. 6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 
16 MASH 
22 Three's Company 
16 Bill Cosby Show 
22 Magnum, PI 

28 ABC Thursday Night Movie "Inside 
the Third Reich" 16 Family Ties 16 Cheers 22 Simon and Simon 34 PBS Fall Season Preview 16 NightCoun 34 World War II: A Gl Diary 

46  Ught for Uving  
16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Hometown  
28  20/20  
34  Mystery: "Rumpole  of the  

Rumpole and the Genuine A Bailey: 

Saint Mary's Baked Meatloaf with Mushroom Sauce 
Roast Turkey with Dressing 
Sweet and Sour Pork Bratwurst on a Bun 
10:00 
10:30p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 12:30p.m. 1:00p.m. 2:00a.m. 
46 16 22 28 34 46 
16 22 28 
22 

28 46 
16 16 22 46 
Lesea Alive NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Masterpiece Theatre Manna for Modern Man 
Tonight Show US Open Highlights ABC N~ Nightline 
CBS Late Movie "Start the tion" Love Connection Praise the Lord 
Revolu· 

Late Night with David Letterman All in the Family Nightwatch Independent Network News 
••••••••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ,.~~ssss~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ssss~~~
•
• 
Little 
·• •• • 

• 
-...--..........--...-Flower••• Montessori • 
• 
PRE-SCHOOL ELEMENTARY 

• 
eParent/Child ekindergarten Grades•• eroddler eExtended Day First through Sixth • • ••• •• • 

• 
ePre-Primary Kindergarten


• 
: 15767 Day Rd., Mishawaka 624 N. Notre Dame Ave. 
• 

: 256-5313 : 
: The only accredited Montessori School in Indiana : 

MAJORS and STUDENTS INTERESTED IN Film/video Media Studies Theatre 
to a Reception in THE LOFT O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL Friday, September 6 3:30·5:00 pm 
Welcome Back COTH majors! 
a e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e "'"-'·SSSS:si'~~~~SS~~~~~~SS~~~~~SS:si'S'i~~ 
S~orts 

Co-captain jock Mutschler (14) and the rest of Coach Dennis Grace said he was generally pleased the Notre Dame soccer team played well earlier this with his team's effort in losses to Virginia and week, but came up empty in the win column. Head George Mason. Mike Chmiel has details at right. 
Gelfman one of several new faces for ND women's tennis team in '85 
ByJOHN COYLE "I give 1 50 percent and I work my ther. "She works us really hard but Sports Writer girls very hard. I have total .respect we need it. We're looking forward to 
for all until they prove otherwise. a really good season." 
There are many new faces on the Everyone gets a fair shot," says Counney Courts as the Notre Dame Gelfman. Several key players from last year women's tennis team prepares for 
are back and Gelfman will be the fall season, which opens Satur­depending heavily on them the first day with matches against Evansville few matches. The Irish have moved and Marquette. Not only did several up to the Division I level after fine players from last year graduate, making it to the Division II finals last but the team also lost the guidance spring, so their schedule will be and expertise of seven-year head more difficult then it was in the past. coach Sharon Petro, who has moved Seniors Panther, Mary Colligan and 
on to become an assistant athletic Izzy O'Brien along with juniors director. JoAnne Biafore and Tammy Schmidt 
Ifall the players are as enthusiastic and sophomore Michelle Daffo will and spirited as the new head coach, be a big help to their new coach. The Michelle Gelfman, however, the squad will gain some added depth rebuilding process should be a quick with newcomers such as freshman, one. Gelfman, who had bee~>the Natalie Illig, junior transfer, Carol 
head coach ofboth the woinen's and . Rader and freshman walk-on, Julie men's tennis teams at Western Il­Sullivan. linois University the last two years, is extremely excited about the up­Michelle Ge/jman While the Irish will be vying for coming season. the North Star Conference cham­
So far, the team appears to be
Gelfman considers herself a hard pionship in October, the fall season
responding very well to Gelfrnan's
worker and is very dedicated to her is mainly a preparation for the spring
hard-work approach and her en­
team. The young coach also prides season and the NCAA Champion­
thusiasm is spreading among her
herself on being fair and always ship.
players.

available for her players. In return The Evansville match starts at 9 for her efforts, the lively coach ex­"We're all very happy with our a.m., with the Marquette match pects a lot from her players. new coach," says captain Susie Pan-slated for 1 p.m. 
Thursday, September 5, 1985-page 16 
Grace pleased with his team's effort in losses to VA., George Mason 
ByMICHAEL). CHMIEL "George Mason was as high as SJX>rts Writer eighth in the country last year with most of their team back," recalled 
After playing its first two games of Grace. "We gave them all they the young 1985 campaign on the wanted." road, the Irish soccer team returned Against the Pats, the Irish did 
to the Notre Dame campus Tuesday much better offensively as they took night with only two losses to show 1C shots against 1 5 by George for its efforts. The games, however, Mason. The Patroits took a 2-0 lead 
were lost at the hands of two na­before Notre Dame freshman John tional powers on the east coast and Guigon scored the first Irish goal of Head Coach Dennis Grace could not the 1985 campaign at 55:3 7. 
have been more impressed with the With the score at 3-1, Guigon's showing by his team. classmate Joe Sternberg closed the 
"Success is relative," commented gap to one again at the 73:15 mark Grace. "We weren't successful as far with an assist from senior Dave as winning a ballgame, but consider­Miles. With the Irish pressing for a 
ing the competition and considering game-tying goal, the Patroits were the beginning of the year and the able to catch them off-guard and 
number of freshmen we have and score a late goal to win the contest the new people we have, I was very by a 4-2 margin. happy and very pleased with the way According to Grace, the Irish have the weekend worked out." benefited by their first two games 
Sunday, the Irish traveled to Char­because of the intense competition lottesville, Va., where they met the which they have met, and they will second-ranked Virginia Cavaliers. continue to improve in a similar fas­Virginia, which had a 19-3-1 record hion as their 1985 schedule will be 
last year, returned nine starters to jam-packed with outstanding and the lineup and shut out the Irish in highly-rated opponents. the season opener by a score of 3-0. "As far as I'm concerned, we knew 
In the contest, junior goalie Hugh that we weren't going to win 16 or Breslin made his first start for the 18 games this year, but we knew that Irish and was successful in stopping we were going to be as good as we 12 shots on goal. The Cavs took a 1-0 could be because of the competi­lead at the 7:36 mark but were held tion," said Grace. 
in check until 53:32 when they Defensively, Grace believes that scored an insurance goal. A late goal his team is very tough and that they by Virginia capped off an attack that will continue to improve "as a saw the Irish outshot by a 33-3 mar­team." Offensively, Grace believes gin. that his team will also improve but 
"Virginia's an awesome team," that they already possess the ability said Grace. "They spanked us, and to score against Top Tewenty teams they gave us some lessons. But as as was evidenced in the George long as we learned from those les­Mason game. 
sons and showed some progression "You always want to score more in that game, I would have been goals," explained Grace." I thought happy. And, it happened." that the weakest thing that I saw this 
Tuesday, the Irish stayed in Vir­weekend from watching the films ginia to meet the highly-ranked was our transition into offense in the George Mason Patroits in Fairfax. Virginia game. Once we got the ball, And according to Grace, they were no one was quite sure what to do at able to take many of the things that that point because it wasn't going to they learned in the Virginia game and use them to their advantage. see SOCCER, page 13 
Stock hopes Rehder, Williams can fill big shoes 
When the Irish open the 1985 football season against Michigan nine days from now, former Notre Dame star Mark Bavaro wiU be 300 miles away in Green Bay, prepar­ing for his second game as the starting tight end for the New York Giants. And while Irish offensive coordinator Mike Stock wouldn't mind having his former all-American back in a Notre Dame uniform to face Michigan that after­noon, the third-year Irish coach isn't exactly complaining about his current tight end situation, which now involves juniors Tom Rehder ~dJoel Williams. 
Rehder, a 6-7, 243-pound converted defensive tackle, heads into the Michigan game as the staner at tight end following a solid spring season and a good showing in preseason workouts this fall. Adjusting to the position switch hasn't posed too much of a problem for him be­cause he was recruited as a tight end in 1982 and spent most ofhis freshman season there. Rehder's blocking skills are his strongest asset, but he's worked hard over the sum­mer to improve his receiving. Stock likens him to Bavaro as sophomore, and thinks Rehder has a chance to rise to the same level. 
"Tom has maintained his quality play from last spring, and he's improved in some ways," says Stock. "He really worked hard over the summer. He's still got a lot to learn, though. Right now he's a sophomore at the position, so to speak, and I think he has the same qualifications as Bavaro at that stage. I hope he can attain the same notoriety." 
Williams also came on well this past spring, and figures to see plenty of playing time this year because the Irish often use multiple-tight end formations in short-yardage and goal-line situations. At 6-4, 234 pounds, a lack of ex­perience may be the only thing preventing him from be­coming a top-notch player. 

Larry Burke 
Football Notebook 
"Joel has had an outstanding preseason," notes Stock. "I know he's ready to play, and he's going to be a big factor for us this season. Along with Tom, he gives us good strength and depth at the tight end position-both ofthem have the capabilities to be outstanding players. I just hope they stay healthy." 
While both Rehder and Williams still have a long way to go towards filling Bavaro's shoes, Stock feels a lot more comfortable about the situation than he did heading into spring practice last March. 
On the subject of tight ends, Stock is really high on his quartet offreshmen at the position -Andy Heck, Tom Gor­man, Ted FitzGerald and Richard Morrison, and feels that these four could continue the Irish tradition ofoutstanding tight ends. 
"This group has a lot of athletic ability to draw from," says Stock. "I think these are four potentially fine prospects who really will be able to contribute down the road -after they've learned the system here. We might call on them sooner if there's an injury, but for now they've given us a sense ofsecurity at the position." 
• 

How tough will it be for the Irish to win their season opener in Ann Arbor? 
Well, it just so happens the Wolverines have never lost a season-opening game since Bo Schembechler took over as head coach in 1969. That streak reached 11 games last year when Michigan knocked off defending-champion Miami, 22-14. 
In fact, the Wolverines have lost only one opening game under Schembechler. That loss came in 1981 -by a 21-14 count in Wisconsin. 
Irish coach Gerry Faust, meanwhile, is 3-1 in season openers, 1-1 on the road. The Michigan game marks faust's return to the sight of his first loss as a college coach. His first Irish team opened the 1981 season with a 27-9 fhrash­ing ofLSU in Notre Dame Stadium and immediately rose to the top spot in both the AP and UPI polls. The Irish fell just as quickly, however, when the Wolverines shocked them, 25-7, in Ann Arbor the following week. 
The '85 Irish will face the toughest schedule of any col­lege football team in the nation, according to College and Pro Football Newsweekly. 
The magazine rates a team's schedule by ranking each opponent on a 1-10 scale, adding extra points depending on where a game is played and for particularly difficult road teams. 
Notre Dame received a score of 105 points for its slate, which features eight 1984 bowl teams. Baylor finished second in the ratings with 103 points, followed by Mic­higan and Florida ~tate, both with 102 points, then Miami (Fla.) and Florida, both with 101. Five teams tied for seventh in the ratings with 100 points. They were Maryland, Pittsburgh, Mississippi, UCLA and Alabama. 




