

SMC phone-a-thon -page 3 


Saint Mary's Peacemakers deal with nuclear war threat 
~' i ...... 
API'horo 
Mardi Gras celebrating 


Plane crash kills all passengers aboard Spanish Boeing 747 
Associated Press "There was not an explosion previ­
ous to the crash," he said. The 
BILBAO, Spain -An Iberia Air aircraft's "black box" or flight recor­
Unes Boeing 727 crashed into der has been recovered, Iberia offi­
rugged hill country yesterday on ap­cials said.· 
proach to Sondica airport, killing all The airplane was flying about 300 
148 people aboard. A Basque terror­yards below normal altitude when it 
ist group claimed responsibility for hit a television relay tower on Oiz 
the crash, but the airline dismissed hill, he said . 
the possibility. Iberia officials said there was a 
Bolivia's labor minister, Gonzalo bomb threat on a different plane 
Guzman, and former Spanish making the same flight on Monday. 
Foreign Minister Gregorio lopez They said a thorough search that 
Bravo were identified as victims. It delayed the flight 30 minutes found 
was not immediately known if any nothing, and that Monday's flight 
Americans were aboard. day was completed without inci­
Civil guardsmen and rescue par­dent. 
ties were able to reach the crash site, Air traffic controllers said yester­
on rugged 3,366-foot Oiz hill, day's flight disappeared from their 
several hours after the accident. monitors at 9:3S a.m. ( 3:35 a.m. 
They said charred wreckage and EST), shortly before it was due to 
bodies were scattered over an area land at Sondica airport. 
of 2,000 yards, and that they found The pilot, Jose Luis Patino, "knew 
no survivors. perfectly the Sondica airport and he 
The crash site was in rugged ter­was a veteran pilot," an Iberia 
rain near the city of Durango, about Airlines spokesman said. Airline offi­
1H. 5 miles from Bilbao in northern cials said the cause of the crash was 
Spain's Basque country. Airline offi­not known. 
dals said 141 passengers and a crew Yesterday's crash was the third 
ofseven were aboard flight 610 from commercial air crash in Spain in 14 
Madrid. months. On Nov. 27, 1983, a Boeing 
Airline President Carlos Espinosa 747 of the Colombian airline de los Monteros, told reporters in Avianca crashed and burst into Bilbao that an anonymous caller flame-s outside Madric!_, killing 181 claimed responsibility for the crash people. on behalf of ETA, the Basque group On Dec. 7, an Iberia Boeing 727 that demands independence for the and a DC-9 belonging to a domestic Basque provinces ofthe north. carrier, Aviaco, collided on a runway 
He said he did not know the cause at the Madrid airport. killing all 4 2 of the crash, but he dismissed the people aboard the DC-9 and 51 possibility ofa terrorist bomb attack. aboard the Iberia jet. 
Winicur to take over in June for Corbaci 
Special to The Observer matters that affect his areas of re­
sponsibility. 

leo Corbaci, a Notre Dame faculty Corbaci will continue to teach member for more than three part-time. He joined the Notre Dame decades and dean of administration faculty in 1951 and five years later since 1971, will retire from his ad­received his first administrative post ministrative position and become as administrative assistant to the associate professor emeritus of eco­vice president for academic affairs. nomics June 30, University Provost Subsequently, he served as assistant Timothy O'Meara announced. vice president for academic affairs 
Assuming his responsibilities will and registrar, and later as assistant be Daniel Winicur, associate profes­provost and registrar. sor of chemistry, who was named In 1972, he received one of the registrar two years ago. Winicur will University's first presidential cita­be both registrar and dean ofadmin­tions. istration, as well as a consultant to the provost's advisory committee on see WINICUR, page 3 
King Arthur, also known as Pete Fountain, leads his Half-Fast 'arching Club down St. Charles Ave. early yesterday morning in New Orleans. 
Special to The Observer 
Four of five living winners of the coveted Gold Medal ofthe American Institute of Architects will be honored April 9 by Notre Dame as part ofa celebration ofits College of Architecture's new master's degree program. 
The daylong observance, called "A Salute to Architecture" and cosponsored by the AlA, will in­clude a symposium in which the Gold Medal winners, who have been singled out for their distinctive con­tribution to the profession, will par­ticipate_ They will also receive honorary doctor of fine arts degrees at an academic convocation. 
The architects are the 1972 Gold Medal winner Pietro Belluschi, Portland, Ore.; Romaldo Giurgola, New York, 1982; Philip johnson, New York. 1978; and Kenzo Tange, Tol'}'o, 1966. Missing is the 1979 medalist, l.M. Pei, New York, who will be out Of the country at the time. 
Other principals include John Burgee, an architectural partner of Johnson's and a 19S6 Notre Dame 

alumnus who wHI deliver the aa­
dress at the academic convocation; 
R. Bruce Patty, president ofAlA, who will moderate part of the sympo­sium; and Richard Wilson, author of a recent book on winners ofthe AlA Gold Medal and associate professor ofarchitecture at Iowa State Univer­sity and the University of Virginia. Wilson wtll speak on the history and significance of the Gold Medal and lead a panel discussion among the four architects at the end ofthe sym­posium. 
Entitled "Thoughts About Archi­tecture" and set in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Educa­tion, the symposium will allow each of the Gold Medalists to discuss the past, present and future of architec­ture from his own perspective. It will be the first time these four medalists have appeared together, and the symposium and other events of the day will be open to a limited number of AlA members on a first­come, first-serve basis. 
Dean Roger Schmitz of the Col­lege of Engineering, in which Notre 
r . .........­
• 4 .,...,­

Fountain's marching club signals the start of the largest celebration in Louisiana's Mardi Gras. 
Dame's School ofArchitecture is lo­cated, will welcome participants. Professor Robert Amico, chairman of Notre Dame's School ofArchitec­ture, will host a luncheon between morning and afternoon symposium sessions. Patty and Father Theodore Hesburgh, president ofNotre Dame, -will speak at a dinner following the 
academic convocation. 
Last December, Notre Dame an­
nounced a gift of S1.2 million from a 
l9SO architecture alumnus and 
Memphis businessman, William 
Bond Jr. The gift will endow the 
Montedonico Fund. named after 
Bond's mother, Rosa Montedonico 
Bond. The fund will generate Bond 
Fellowships for students pursuing 
the University's new master's degree 
in architecture. 
The 30-hour advanced program 
will be open to candidates who have 
attained a professional undergradu­
ate degree from an accredited archi­
tecture program or the equivalent. 
With a principal focus in architec­
tural design, the program will also 
offer study opportunities in Rome 
and Chicago. 


Medal winners extended invitations 
for 'A Salute to Architecture' day 
ByKEKBERLYTRENNER Mary's community, who are con­
ent decided they wanted to ed­for the more positive name, StaffReporter cerned with establishing a peace­ucate themselves about the threats "Peacemakers." ful world." The Peacemakers, Social of nuclear wac. According to Hohl, In the past, the Peacemakers Recent interest in social justice formed about a year and a half ago, they believe with education they have sponsored the film "Three
Justice
has led to the formation of a group work with both Campus Ministry can inform others about the Minutes to Midnight" as well as the at Saint Mary's known as the andJustice Education. serious dangers ofnuclear war. voter registration drive. last Octo­Peacemakers. Spurring the group's formation atSMC Originally, this group called ber, they worked with the 
According to Robert Hohl, refer­was "The Day After," a film about themselves "The Six Minute Washington-based group, Net­ence librarian and principal organ­life after nuclear disaster, which to have some sort of letdown per­People," referring to the travel work, publicizing the presidential izer of this group, "the was shown at Haggar College Cen­iod after the film." time of a cruise missile from here candidate platforms. Peacemakers are a group of ter. Hohl said, "A group of con­During a discussion period after to Russia. The group decided the 
see PEACE, page 4

friends, members of the Saint cerned people realized that we had the film, students and faculty pres-name was too negative and opted 
The Observer Wednesday, February 20,1985-page 2 

Downers are down but uppers are up, according to a University ofMichigan survey ofthis year's college freshmen. Use of LSD PCP cigarettes alcohol sedatives and tranquilizers declined frodt last ~ear but ccx':aine use'increased even among politically con­servative students, leading to conclusions that cocaine is used to fuel high-energy efforts to "get ahead."-The Observer 
William Schroeder becatne the first artificial heart recipient ever to leave the confines of a hospital yesterday, taking a brief ride in a wheelchair into the sunny parking lot at Humana Heart Institute. Meanwhile, the third artificial heart recipient, Murray Haydon, continued his remarkable recuperation, sitting up, drinking fluids and exercising. Doctors said he might be able to get out ofbed today. Haydon had a slightly queasy stomach, probably a natural consequence of the stress ofopen heart surgery, said Dr. Allan M. Lansing, chairman of Humana Heart Institute Inter­national. -AP 
Of Interest 
' 

Senior Formal tickets can be bought today as well 
as Feb. 21, 25 to 28, and March 4 to 10 at LaFortune Student Center at Notre Dame and LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's, from 5 until 7 p.m. The price is 156 and includes cocktail hour, dinner and dance at the Palmer House in Chicago. Second City tickets will also be sold for $7.50 on a first-come, first-serve basis. Information concerning flower orders, tuxedo fittings, rooms and table reservations can be picked up at these times. -The Obseroer 
The Millions Against M.S. Committee will be 
sponsoring a roller skating party at U.S.A. Roller Rink tonight from 5 to 9:30p.m. There will be a S3.25 admission charge, out of which S 1. 50 will go to Multiple Sclerosis. To find the rink, take Edison east to the end and make a left. -The Obseroer 
"Catnpus Perspectives,, WVFI's weekly talk show will broadcast its first show of 1985 tonight from 9 to 9:30. The show is hosted by Vito Gagliardi andJohn Decker, and the guest will be Student Body President-Elect Bill Healy. Listeners can call in at 239-6400. -The Observer 
"SouthAfrica: An African Perspective" 
will be the topic ofa lecture by Piet Schabort. vice-consul ofinforma­tion for South Africa, tonight at 8 in the Library Auditorium. The speech is sponsored by the Student Activities Board's Committee on Ideas and Issues. -The Observer 
Weather 
=·o: 
I I '

Mostly sunny today with highs near 40. Increasing clouds tonight with lows in the upper 20s to low 30s. A 50 percent l:hance ofrain tomorrow with highs in the mid to upper 40s. 


Interesting trivia from past Sophomore Literary Festivals 
like An Tostal week and the Notre Dame Jazz Fes­tival, the Sophomore Literary Festival is a spring semes­ter tradition at Notre Dame. When one considers that writers from around the world gather at this medium­sized, midwestern Catholic university and discuss their life's work, the festival can be seen as somewhat of a tribute to the University's world-wide esteem. 
Since it began in 1967, the festival has featured both well-known and obscure writers. And sometimes what the writer does while he or she is at Notre Dame is as interesting as what the author says. 
When Ken Kesey, the brilliant and flamboyant author of"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "Sometimes a Great Notion," spoke at the festival in 1977, he was in .a quieter stage of his career. His interest in farming hardly coincided with exploits students had heard' about in such books as Tom Wolfe's "The Electric Kool­
Aid Acid Test." 

Dan McCullough 
News Editor 

Similarly, playwright Edward Albee told the 1978fes­tival audience to close their eyes and listen to his play, "Box." In the play, no characters appear on stage; only only a dim outline ofa cube and a voice. 
"I'm extremely interested in words," said Albee~ "Sometimes words just have to be listened to and not watched." 
Author John Powers, whose bibliography includes "Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up?", in his 1981 festival appearance, characterized social life at 
a Catholic university. 
But the figure ofKesey the "Catholic girls are like Author soon overcame whiffle balls; a lot of effort Kesey the Man and Farmer and very little distance," he and his room at the Morris said. Inn soon deteriorated into a 
In 1968, Norman Mailer,week-long party center. 
author of "The Naked andlike many Notre Dame the Dead" and the more
visitors, Kesey and his wife 
recent "Tough Guys Don't
began their stay with a visit Dance," spoke at the festival.
to the bookstore. There they The world premiere of hisbought Fighting Irish foot­film, "Beyond the Law,"ball jerseys which they wore coincided with his Notreevery minute they were Dame appearance.
here. Later that same week, Mailer may have gotten 
playwright Tennessee Wil­lost in the shuffle, however, liams spoke to the students. because also on campus that He took the stage in the week were presidential can­

overflowing Washington Hall, sat down at a small table, poured himself a glass of wine, and offered up two toasts --one to Our Lady, and the other to the gay students ofNotre Dame. 
That same week in 1977, William Burroughs spoke at the festival. It was a good year. 
Poet Allen Ginsberg, said to be among the founders of the Beat and Hippie generations, gave the 1979 festival a lesson in "samtha," a slight variance of uadition Bud­dhist meditation. He instructed the audience to sit for­ward and erect with eyes open and relaxed because, he said, "We're not going to another world, we're right here in this world. lbe point is not to get anywhere, we're here where we are already." 
He then told the audience to concentrate on the breath from their noses. "Follow the breath out until the breath dissolves," he told them. After about five minutes of this, a student in the audience jumped up and yelled, "I don't believe you got paid for this!" 
·Ginsberg calmly rang a tiny bell and said, "It's just another thought form." 
didates Robert Kennedy and 
Eugene McCarthy, as well as 
William F. Buckley, who was also participating in the festival. 
One ofthe most confusing appearances at the festival was given by avant-garde composerJohn Cage in 1980. Cage wrote a piece randomly. "Each letter ineach name (of his subjects) was assigned a word either from the dictionary or the encyclopedia, which began with the same first letter. Thus, the first word was chosen from the first page of the dictionary entries which corre­spond with the first letter in the first name, and so on," he explained. 
Perhaps the audiences reaction was best described by the headline on the Observer story that ran the next day, "Cage baffles audience." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 


Thursdays 7pm-10pm 
OFFER EXPIRES WHEN THE SNOW EXPIRES. 
*15 SLOPES *3 CHAIRLIFTS 
* SHOW I.D. 
prevent 
birth defects 

Support March of Dimes 
Did you hear? Carol Cavaliere is 19 today. She wants you to call 1266 
or stop by 133 B.P. and give her 

51\s~ft~;t 


* bring a friend skiing and you will ski and drink free 
* BUY 1TICKET-GET 1 FREE *BUY 1RENTAL-GET 1FREE 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the studentsof the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( S20 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame,lndiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The A~lated Pres..'i. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor................................ Andy Saal Design Assistant ..................... Alex Peltzer Layout Staff. ................ ...... Ellyn Mastako David Kaczorowski Tracy Schindele Typesetters ................................. Vic and Ted News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino Copy Editor ................................ ...... liz Flor Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Scheuermann Viewpoint Copy Editor............ Mary Ellen Viewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layo11t ...................Andi Schnuck ND Day Editor............................. Earl Baker SMC Day Editor............ :'.ta~ie O'Connell .4d Design ....... ...... Fred and Catherine Photographer ...... ................. Paul Kramer 
T.G.l.J.hursday 

The <lbserwr Wednesday, February 20, 1985 -page 3 
cers in 1969-70 and received its A specialist in chemical physics, distin~uished service award in 
Winicur has continued his teach­

Winicur 
1970. ing and research while re!Pstrar. continuedfrom page 1 Win1• ·ur has his doctorate from the Llllversity ofCalifornia at Los The dean of administration Corbaci was a chMter member Angeles and was a research fel­conducts analytical studies for 
ot the College and University Ma­low at the California Institute of planning, financial analysis for 
chine Records Conference and Technology prior to coming to the provost, and academic space 
chaired the organization in 1963. Notre Dame in 1970. He was allocation. The office also 
He was also president of the promoted to associate profc;ssor handles academic facilities in­
Indiana Association of College in 1976 and made assistant dean ventory and sets priorities for 
Registrars and Admissions Offi-of the College ofScience in 1979. Daniel Winicur Leo Corbaci their improvement. 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
News Editor  Features Editor  
Saint Mary's Executive  Photo Editor  
Editor  • Controller  

Sports Editor Advertising Manager Viewpoint Editor Production Manager 
questions about these positions should be directed to Sarah Hamilton at The Observer. Personal statements and resumes are due Wednesday, Feb. 27 at 5 p.m. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 


College's 11th annual phone-a-thon sets $75,000 goal for Annual Fund 
By MARY HUFFMAN 6000. The money raised will be Annual Fund each year. Since the News Staff placed in the Annual Fund, a budget College was established 141 years support fund for the College. Be­ago, O'Shea hopes members of the 
A goal of 575,000 has been set for cause Saint Mary's tuition covers ap­Anniversary Club will donate $141 Saint Mary's 11th annual Phone-A­proximately 75 percent of their this year. Thon March 4 through 7 in the Hag­budget, the Phone-A-Thon is a way To contact alumnae this year, at gar College Center. The to help cover remaining costs. least 200 to 275 volunteers are Phone-A-Thon, sponsored by the Participants in the event will be needed. Last year, representatives College Development Office, in­calling approximately 3000 from each class, clubs, a.nd hall volves students, faculty staff, admin­alumnae of the College. According groups volunteered. This year 14 istration and alumnae. to lisa O'Shea, assistant director of alumnae from South Bend will help. 
development, "We call them whe­Julie Strazzabosco, as student ther they're old or young. This is the Every volunteer will receive a free coordinator of the event, is respon­average alumnae's way of helping five minute phone call anywhere in sible for informing and scheduling the College." O'Shea is hoping the the United States for every hour and students to work the phones. average donation will be about $45 a half volunteered. Volunteer slips 
The $75,000 goal is an increase this year. can be placed in a box located in over last year's goal of $65,000, Saint Mary's also has an Anniver­Haggar College Center or Madeleva which was surpassed by more than sary Club which contributes to the Hall. 
Hall Presidents plan raffle for MS benefit 
Hy SCOTT BEARBY the Multiple Sclero~i~ A~sm:iation in hopes to offer "a lot ofnice prizes in­StaffReporter a planned charitv project. order to make a lot ofmoney" for the campus drive. 
Tentative plans for a "Millions for Proceed1-will be added to other These include 15 grand prizes, MS" fundraiser were announced at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's collec­each a day in Chicago for two last night's Hall Presidents' Council tions in the competition for an MTV­people. Secondary prizes will in­meeting. sponsored concert. clude dinners for two in the South HPC is planning a raffle to benetit HPC Chairman Chris Tayback Bend area. In addition to the raffle, HPC is scheduling a party for all stu­
FF========= coupon==========+~ 
dents who buy raffie tickets. In response to a HPC suggestion to install lights in dimly lit areas
In Time For Your Formals 
around campus, increasing safety, Ombudsman solicited ideas about places most in need of additional 
Haircut Only--$8 or 2 for $15 if 
lighting from hall presidents. OBUD is conducting a survey which will
you bring a frit:nd. 
detail where lights will be most ben­§ (Biowdry and iron touch-up--$3 additional) e 0 eficial.
0.. 

:;, -§ Continued discussion took place 0 
::;,0 regarding the HPC proposal to
l> 

restructure student government. A
Walk-ins Welcome 
final draft will be voted on next ~eek and sent to the Student Senate
Offer ends 3-2-85 
restructuring committee. 

Other business included selecting the next location for the Blow Off For Awhile Club. Zahm will host the
Corner of Ironwood and Edison 
234-6767 

next event one week from tonight. There will be no BOFA tonight be­
1±::::===============:::::;:::::===== coupon ===================:::::±J cause it is Ash Wednesday. 
the 
BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL 
presents 
nMiss T!!E.yne ~rrin~on n fl Jazz Musician j' / 
fl 
INCONCERT 
with members ofthe N.D. JazzEnsemble 
Wednesday, February 20, 7:00pm Auditorium, Center for Continuing Education 

LOGAN 
CENTER 
announces a new tradition-­this Saturday: 
CARNIVAL REC 

And it's all for the kids This Saturday 2/23 9-11:30 am New volunteers both welcomed and needed 


r 
. ~ t. 
r~ 
\ The Observer Wednesday, February 20,1985-page 4 
•I 

CO-SPONSORED BY 
_01__,_ 
j Several South Shore workers fired 
·( 
l l after last month's Gary train crash 
Associated Press train 123-have been dismissed from National Transportation Safety ·! service," he said, reading a prepared Board investigator Hubert jewell Jr. MICHIGAN CITY, Ind.-The South statement. said the conductor of the eastbound! Shore Une, citing violations ofoper­The same board determined that train proceeded on the available ating rules, has fired three crew the dispatcher and crew of the track, believing he could clear the members ofa train involved in a col­westbound train were not respon­single-track stretch ahead of the lision that injured at least 85 pas­sible for the accident, he said. westbound train. Under normal sengers, the company president said operating rules, the westbound train yesterday. The railroad, known formally as should have had the right-of-way, he 
The commuter railroad company the Chicago South Shore and South said. convened a board of investigators Bend Railroad, operates commuter Feb. 9 to conduct an in-house in­passenger service between those Prince said that under union con­quiry into the jan. 21 collision of two cities. tract the firings can be appealed to two South Shore trains in Gary, com­Both trains were traveling on the him and so declined to say whether pany President Barry Prince said. eastbound track when the collision the violations of operating rules led 
"The South Shore Line announced occurred, South Shore spokesman directly to the accident. But he that the conductor, engineman and Richard Bunton said. The added: "that's the inference ofthe in­collector on the eastbound train -westbound track was under repair. vestigation." 
·Weather causes library roof leaks 
By BnL HIGHDUCHECK Barber said, "We have people with develops a water stain, is the carpet. News Staff hatchets up there to break up the Last year there was no damage to the ice." library and even the carpet escaped 
This winter's large amount of Dam.age to the library has been without a spot. snowfall has not only caused prob­miq.imal. "No books have been af. The library, which cost approxi­lems for those trying to get around fected yet," said Barber: The only mately $6 million, was dedicated in campus, but for students trying to item which might be damaged, if it the fall of 1982. study under the leaking roof ofSaint 
Mary's library. 
Lowel Barber, executive assistant to the controller for plant opera­tions, said the current leaks in the Cushwa-Leighton Library are more severe this winter than last because 
ofextreme weather. 
The leaks are basically "confined to one area," said Barber. The buck­ets used to collect the dripping water occupy a 10 to 1 5 foot stretch on the west library wall. 
The lack of "heat tracing cables" in the eaves ofthe library is the main cause of the problem, said Barber. Currently there are heating cables in the drain pipes to melt any snow or ice accumulating in the pipes, but since there are no heating cables in the eaves, snow and ice are allowed to accumulate, blocking drain pipes. 

( 
Barber said the water has been 

r "leaking between the brick and con­crete layers ofthe wall" Once in the walls the water slips through a crack in the concrete walls of the second floor and into the awaiting buckets. The problem surfaced last winter but its source was not discovered until last summer through the combined efforts ofroofing contrac­tors and the original architect ofthe library. A contractor was hired last sum­mer to install the heat tracing cables, but because of unavailability of ma­terials, he was unable to complete the job. He said he would be able to finish before snow began falling this winter. Barber said they are "upset at the contractor" for not installing the cables. The cables cannot be in­stalled until there is an extended thaw which will melt all the ice cur­rently in the drain pipes. Until then, 
Peace 
continuedfrom page 1 
The Peacemakers also sponsored the big screen TV presidential election debates, with discussion following. 
About the event, Hohl said, "I was happy with the turn out. It was a good opportunity to compare view­points and perspectives." 
Hohl said about one halfofthe stu­dents remained for the discussion. He said he thought there was a good level of interest in the issues, and good perception ofwornens' issues. 
Hohl has several ideas for events this semester. He said he would like to bring some speakers to Saint 

Flower arranging 
Bridget Mclarson, left, andStudent Body Vice President Cathy David, are bard at work at the Irish Gardens Florist Shop, in the basement ofLaFortune. With Valentine's Day past, the Gardens and other local florists have a chance to catch up before the next wave ofSYR s. 
Mary's, talking on topics such as the arms race, human rights, disarma­ment and human dignity. Ifspeakers are not possible, the Peacemakers wiU probably host discussion panels. Hohl is currently trying to get the film, "A Day After Trinity." 

View~_o_i_n_t________
w_e_dn-es-da-y,-Fe-bru-ary-20_,1_9s_s_::_pa-ge_s 
George Washington would be suprised with us 
For those of you who have forgotten, George Washington's birthday is celebrated this week. He was a statesman, a soldier and a family man. and friend and enemy alike admired him. It is only fitting, then, that we 
Dave Kroeger Wednesday's child 
take a little time out to contemplate the world around us and how it has changed since George's day. To be quite honest, there are a lot of things which have changed drastically, and it makes one wonder as to whether or not George would have considered all men equal had he caught a glimpse of twentieth century Amerka. 
George, for example, did not have to deal with Top-40 radio stations like those in South Bend. He had no idea that, someday, someone 
would claim to be America's "Uncle Bobby" 
who "plays all the hits." George would have 
questioned just exactly whose hits were being 
played. 
George did not have to choose long dis­tance telephone services. He had someone deliver his messages personally, and he did not worry about whether the postage rate was twemy cents or twenty-two cents. 
George did not have to worry about wan­dering troops of break dancers in public places. Colonial Americans simply did not have "ghetto blasters," "Vans" or Ollie and Jerry. People danced in a standing position, not on their backs. 
George did not have to watch commercials for waterbeds and Isuzus, he had no need to know that local appliance stores were having sales, and he was not an avid viewer of"Crime of the Week" spots. 
Our first president, when he was warning Americans to "avoid foreign alliances," would have included Boy George and Wham had they been born. 
1 
1
I P.O.BoxQ 1 
Will it take an injury to clear the sidewalks? 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter as a protest to an­

other one of those wonderful short-sighted 
views of our favorite group of bungling brot­
hers -the Notre Dame administration. As most 
of us are well aware, the recent onslaught of 
weather has brought serious problems to the 
Michiana area, ofwhich our small, prestigious, 
midwestern university is a part. The weather 
was so bad that the entire area was shut down 
for the day, a snow emergency was declared 
and all roads were officially closed. The South 
Bend Police and the Indiana State Patrol even 
went so far as to ticket those caught within 
200 feet ofsnow plows canvasing the area. 
But did the University in all its wisdom can eel classes? Of course not. Why? Well, accor­ding to certain high ranking members of the University inner circle, they would not close because we pay close to S10,000 a year for an education, eighty percent of all personnel needed to hold classes (the students) were already on campus and unless the weather conditions are very, very extreme they are not going to close this University and deprive us ofthe education we have paid for. Now I really should not be surprised by this short-sighted attitude, but I was. If this is the attitude they are going to take, then listen to this: If I am going to pay Notre Dame S10,000 a year, and the administration is going to hold classes no matter what, then it has the responsibility to: 
a) 
Provide us (the students) with clear, open, safe walkways on which to get around on campus -not just scraped over iceways barely big enough for a squirrel to get through. The first time I fall and break my neck on these so-called sidewalks I am calling a lawyer. 

b) 
Plow the student parking lots. Why main­tenance did not have us move our cars last week when the weather was decent and plow the lots is probably an answer we will oniy find in the twilight zone. The only way we can get in, much less get out of them, is to be towed 

c) 
Provide workers facuit\' :md staff with either the option of not coming in to work or provide them with a shuttle to get them here. If the administration is going to ask these people to take their lives and driving records inr., th1 ·• own hands just sP Notre Dame can 


say to the world that we get our education under any type ofweather conditions, then do something_to help them out. 
We could call the actions of our favorite folk under the Golden Dome short-sighted and ignorant, but why delude them or our­selves when we all know.what they were -just plain stupid. Maybe the next time the Univer­sity will learn from the experience ofthe past few weeks and will not make the same mistake twice (I know, but I can always dream can't I?). 
llnfortunately, though, as one alumnus trapped for the duration so calmly suggested, it will take a lawsuit from someone injured on the icy sidewalks or the death of someone trying to get here for the University to change its viewpoint. It is hard to believe that it would place class days above the safety of an entire scholastic community. One life or injury is too high a price to pay for an education. Perhaps it is time for the administration to practice the humanistic views it preaches. 
Reginald V. Daniel PlannerHall 
Misinterpretation of speaker selection 

DearEditor: 
it:::.::. <..ru.tnno misinterpreted Saint Mary's criteria for selecting a commencement speaker and honorary degree recipients in her Feb. 12 article. 
President Duggan's letter to the students outlines the criteria for such honorees but never states or intends that nominees must be Catholic. The letter states quite clearly that a nominee's values must be compatible with those of the Church. There is a very important difference. 
Ellen Bussing Pugh Ireland Program Counselor 
Ap~logy for delay of 'The Silent Scream' 
DearEditor: 
On Thursday, Feb. 14 Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Right to Ufe scheduled a showing of "The Silent Scream," one of the most recent films de.dmg with aboruun. and perhaps the most powerful. Due to a delay in shipment of 
have realized that rain was not really purple. 
Neitherwouldhe have bought a purple house. 
George would not have needed a walkman. 
He would have been secure enough not to 
have forgotten the lyrics to "Uke A Virgin" 
while on his way to class. Nor would he have 
needed to wear a Duran Duran button in or­
der to prove his familiarity with progressive 
music. 

George would have questioned middle­
aged men who sang "I Want To Know What 
Love Is." He would have thought that people 
with as much experience as they had should 
have been able to figure out what love was a 
long time ago. Surely, if they had not, they 
would not have publicized their ignorance. 
George would have realized that this 
column was only poking fun at life, and that it 
had no serious intent other than to cause 
people to laugh at themselves. Thanks for the 
opportunity, George. Happy birthday. 

David Kroeger is a sophomore in the Col­lege ofArtsandLetters and is a regular View­point columnist. 
George would not have been impressed by some ofthe fashions currently being sported. He would nut have needed to imitate Patrick Ewing's basketball uniform in order to look imposing. One shirt would have been suffici­ent. What is more, George would have realized that it was not in the best of taste to look like members ofVan Halen. 
George would not have needed campaign slogans were he running for SBP. He would have realized that integrity speaks for itself, as does a lack ofintegrity. 
George would not have been really con­cerned about lite beers and the people who made them. Nor would he have worried about cholesterol, salt or Nutrasweet. He would have known that studies with rats were uni­mportant. 
George would have gotten tired of sports announcers after he saw interview 116 with Chris Washburn. He would have known hype when he saw it. 
George would not have bought a Prince al­bum just because everyone else was. He might have listened to it occasionally, but he would 
the film, however, this showing had to be postponed. We would like to apologize for the inconvenience caused, as well as to thank those who remained to view the substitute film "Abortion Clinic." Abortion is an ex­tremely complex issue which must be ap­proached with a great deal of thought and compassion. We thus encourage members of the Notre Dame -Saint Mary's community to attend the re-scheduled showing of "The Silent Scream" (date to be announced), as eduction is integrfll to understanding. "The Silent Scream" is a 20 minute real-time ultrasound videotape ofan actual abortion ofa 
11-week-old preborn child, narrated by Ber­nard Nathanson, M.D. Or. Nathanson was a co­founder of the National Abortion Rights Action League, and through the early 1970's personally "presided over" more than 60,000 abortions. 
These films are very powerful and dbturb­ing, yet essential viewing for anyone who desires to approach the issue ofabortion with greater knowledge, sensitivity and concern. Again, our sincerest apologies for the postponing of"The Silent Scream." 
Teresa Donovan, President Notre Dame-SaintMary's Right to Life 
Is Stepan Center meant to be closed? 
DearEditor: 

What is the Stepan Center for? We were led to believe that apart from a few social func­tions and pep rallies, the center was created to serve the basketball needs ofthe North Quad. Obviously, this is not so. Not only is the center closed all day Friday, but also after 4:00 p.m. on Saturday. After suffering through a long week ofclasses, these are the most opportune times to play before the grind begins again on Sunday. 
We cannot comprehend why this valuable and much needed space is closed at such op­timum times. We would appreciate it if you could shed some light on this subject and preferrably those courts. Thank you. 
john Sullivan KevinRaedy EJ.Darr Keenan Hall 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed1tor·m·Ch1ef. . .. Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . . Dave Taiclet Managmg Ed1tor . . . . . Mark Worscheh Controller . . . . Dave Stephenitch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor . . . . . . Sarah Ham11ton Adverttsmy Manager . . . Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . . Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Samt Mary's Ed1tor . . . Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials repres~ntthe opmion Sports Ed1tor. . . . . .... M1chael Sull1van Productron Manager .. Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the lns1de Column V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor ..... Dave Grote ProJect Manager . Amy Stephan present the views ot their authors. Column space 1s available to all members of the Features Ed1tor .... , ......... Mary Healy commun1ty, and the free expression of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through letters. Photo Edttor. . . . . . . . . .. Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 

'i 
!: Accent 
The Women's Care Center-one life saved n 
1
I~ 
tl thought. "Many ofthe couples were any steps. The center can provide

Patti Tripathi 
willing to share and explore their the information needed to under­feelings when someone from the stand what abortion is about. 
features staff writer 
center got them together and askedConcerned citizens and Notre Awoman who seeks help at the direct questions ofthis nature," says "The assistance we offer each wo­
Dame and Saint Mary's Right to Women's Care Center is first given Rogers. man varies," admits Rogers, "our Life members got together last year a test to determine whether or not "I was pregnant and I didn't haYe hearts are big, but, our resources are to raise funds in order to create a she is actually pregnant. Ifthe test is any support," confides one young limited since we receive no govern­place to aid women. The Women's positive, consultation and advice woman who sought help at the ment funds." The center relies on Care Center/Pregnancy Help Cen· are provided for her. The woman's center, "I was scared. The center donations for maternity clothes and ter, located on 41 7 St. Louis Blvd., options would be discussed as well was very supportive. They would haby things, and the demand is has been busy ever since April 16, as the risks involved in an abortion. call me every day and go through all great. Arrangements are made for 1984 providing support and care to Also, the expectant mother would the options with me. I had a had pre-natal vitamins to begin the those seeking help. be informed ofthe assistance living situation and one ofthe coun· mother's nutritional program. 

Last year's phone-a-thon raised available for her in such things as selors even offered to let me live There is a food bank for short-term the funds to put this program into medical expenses, housing and with her. They made it a point to or emergency assistance for families motion. Notre Dame and Saint 
help me through the pregnancy 
and in need. The center maintains an Mary's donated additional aid. The abundant library of pamphlets and
_,•..
office furniture was donated by the books on pre-natal care and devel· Holy Cross fathers. Students opment for the first-time mother. If worked attentively to transform the the center is not able to meet a old, unpainted house into the woman's needs, she is referred to warm, welcoming home it is now. other community agencies that can 
ProfessorJanet Smith, the advisor help her. for Right to Life; Deb Rogers, direc­tor; Kathy Thomas, educational and "Our biggest expanded service community consultant; and Vonnie includes plans for establishing a Fiddler, staff counselor, are the house for single mothers," says competent coordinators of the Smith, "the thought alone astounds center. A full-time staff ofvolun­me, but there is a need to extend teers, including Notre Dame and housing and we hope to meet this Saint Mary's students, provide help need."
Uales/ 1he Observer 

with hot-line service and counsel­Ifthe test is negative, the coun­afterwards·· they even gave me a The center is pleased with the ing at the center after 30 hours in selors advise the woman on how to babyshower." She is now a young results of its services. "We feel our training sessions. avoid the reoccurance of an un­mother who is very pleased about work is worthwhile ifwe have 
Literature, pre-natal life slides, wanted pregnancy. "About halfof her decision to have her baby boy. saved just one life," says Rogers, counseling and other services are the pregnancy tests done have been The center maintains the philoso· "our goal in the next year is to provided to women free ofcharge. negative," says Rogers, "this result phy that the decision to have an continue to be a place where wo­To this date, they have assisted gave these women another chance abortion should not be made with· men, their boyfriends, and family 
approximately 800 women. "At to touch upon the reasons why they out full knowledge of the proce­can come. least 30 women have been talked did or did not want a baby." dure, its affects and consequences. out ofabortion. we've been very According to Rogers, many who It believes abortion is not the gentle "We are pleased that a number of successful," says Smith. got a negative result sighed with removal ofthe contents of the people who see us have been rec­
r 
Maternity clothes as well as baby reliefand began to reconsider their uterus but an unnatural surgical ommended by women who have clothes and toys are provided for needs and their relationship with termination of a pregnancy and the used the center and found us help· financially troubled individuals. the man involved: Had the relatios­life within the womb. Counselors ful."
j 
Various services are directed to the hip increased her self-worth? Was feel that deep down inside, most The center is thankful to the ( mothers who wish to give the he someone she would want to women do not want to go through Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­babies up for adoption. Ofcourse, marry and have father her child? an abortion. They are afraid of being munity for all their assistance in 
At right, Deb Rogers, 
L 
~. all services are provided confiden­Some women responded that they pregnant and that one must resolve helping to fund this worthwhile tially. had not given these questions much all ofthese feelings before taking project. 
{ 
f 
f. Phone-a-thon-a proof ofstudents' concern 
f social issue," says Hilbert, on the women who seek help from fronting the issue ofabortion."
Margaret McCabe "Otherwise, students art-limited bv the center themselves. "It will Any students who would like tof assistant features editor their lack offunds. We know and hopefully make an impact on the participate in the phone-a-thon ~-understand this." community as well.because it's a are asked to call Otto Hilbert at 
' ' There were 4,000 abortions importance: in this effort. "Last year As Hilbert points out. the phone· reflection of students' serious con­239-7735, Bill Ryderat 283-3002, today," said Peter jennings at the lowest any caller made in one a-thon will not only make an impact cern and determination when con-or Terri Donavan at283-4059.
~ 
( the beginning ofan ABC evening evening was S60. The highest was newscast last week. "That is an ~550. This really helps and in a average ofone abortion every 21 sense, any contributions that the 
I 
~ 
seconds." students collect is their own contri· It is the harshness offacts such as bution." these that has prompted many to According to Smith, the phone-a­
devote time and effort to the fight thon is the life blood ofthe care against abortion. Here in South center. "We are helping women and 
f Bend, one concrete result is the saving babies' lives," Smith says. f Women's Care Center. Another is "What phone-a-thon participantsl the annual phone-a-thon for the are doing is allowing children to 
center, sponsored by students from live that might have otherwise beenf the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Com· killed." 
munity. Monday evening, between the As if this isn't enough incentive,
~ 
( hours of6 and 9:30, marked the the two callers who collect the_ ( kick-offofthis very important fund­most contributions will win a trip ( raising effort. to Daytona Beach. Also, a party is in 
"Last year we raised S32,000 the planning stages for all the during the phone-a-thon," says phone-a-thon participants as well as ProfessorJanet Smith, the creator the dorm whose residents raise the
r and coordinator of the Care Center. most for the Care Center. "This year we hope to raise be­tween $30,000 and S50,000." The According to Otto Hilbert, the
1 event is made possible by the Notre chairman of the phone-a-thon, most
f 
I 
Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life ofthe volunteers have been
' 
organization and by any students recruited by their phone-a-thon who volunteer their time to make dorm representative. "There are 14 calls. phones available for use and so each 
The phone-a-thon is without night there will be six people from doubt a community effort. The three different dorms present to Development Office ofthe Adminis­make calls." Ifthe phone-a-thon tration Building has offered the use continues for two weeks, the 37 ofits fAcilities, including phones. dorms on the Saint Mary's and "This saves us about S2,000," says Notre Dame campuses will have Smith. "Also, Saint Mary's has ample opportunity to participate. 
donated S')OO in printing fees. "It's a phenomenal opportunity Smith emphasized that the callers for the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
The Women's Care Center provides plenty ofinformationfor pregnant women who
themselves should be aware oftheir community to make a dent in a 
seek guidance andanswers to their questions. 


r 
Wednesday, February 20,1985-page 6-7 



• 
. . 
0~~;
'.··. ' 
.•i••wc •\;>' 

Carol (jales,TheObsener 
, the executive director ofthe Women sCare Center and Cynthia Busk, assistant director. 

Junior Bill Ryder and his mother Janet glimpse through a scrapbook containing pictures ofthe center in its early days. Bill was instrumental in the renovation ofthe original house. 
MSupdate 

The fight continues 
Karen McCloskey 
features staffwriter 

Moncy, money, money. And soon some music, too? 
Aline Gioffre and her crew hope so. 
After another successful week offundraising, ND Millions 
Against MS has received word from the New York headquarters 
of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society that Notre Dame is 
running one of the more successful campus campaigns. The 
headquarters will be sending out additional ideas for the 
fundraising endeavor. 
THIS WEEK This week is a full one for NO Millions Against MS organizers. 
• 
SAB Movies-Last night, the Student Activities Board continued its Tuesday film series with "Nightshift," shown in the Engineering Auditorium. Last week's turnout for "On Golden Pond" was a disappointing one, but sponsors blamed it on the poor weather. 

•Skating 
Party-Tonight, from 5 to 9:30p.m., there will be a skating party at USA Skates, 3909 North Main Street, Mishawaka. Admission is S 3.2 5 at the door and skate rental is S 1. 


Out ofeach admission fee, S1.SO will be donated to NO Millions Against MS. The community is invited to this event and Notre Dame football players will be on hand to sign autographs. 
•Party at Mr. D's-Thejunior Class is sponsoring a party at Mr. o•s Canning Factory, 1 S 16 North Ironwood. All classes are welcome to attend. 
There will be drink specials and door prizes. A S2 cover will be charged and donated to the MS drive. 
•Bike-a-thon-Sign-ups are this week for the Bike-a-thon to be run as part of the University Food Service's Festival ofHealth. The Festvial will be held February 27 through March 11. 
The Bike-a-thon will involve 8-person teams from each dorm 
in both women's and men's divisions. Teams will collect pledges 
for the number ofmiles that they complete. 
Competition will take place on stationary bicycles located in 
the dining halls. Teams will compile mileage during the rounds 
ofcompetition. 
There will be one round ofcompetition each night in each 
dining hall. Two teams will compete each night. The team to 
compile the most mileage for the night, will advance to the next 
round ofcompetition. 
The winning dorms ofboth divisions will receive a S 1 SO gift 
certificate to a local sports establishment. The winning team 
members will receive preferred seating at the MTV concert if it 
is held at Notre Dame. 
According to Mark Facer, Bike·a·thon chairperson, this event 
"should he one ofour big ones." The amount raised "could be a 
couple ofgrand" according to Facer. 
Students interested in joining their dorm team should contact their hall president, social commissioner, or athletic commis­sioner this week. For more information, contact Mark Facer at 283-1969. 
DORM ACTIVITIES 

•Stanford 
Hall-Profits from a foodsales night held during the past week will be donated to the MS drive. 

•Fisher 
Hall-The laundry service will contmue and proceeds will be donated to the MS fundraiser. 

•
Flanner Hall-A foodsale night was held last week and proceeds will he donated to ND Millions Against MS. 

•Pasquerilla 
East-Proceeds from a March 2nd dinner raffle will be donated to the MS drive. 


SAINT MARYS 

•R.aftle-Chances for the raffle which includes dinners for two at several area dining establishments will be sold each evening this week from 6-I I in the dorms. For more information, contact Celeste Alleva at 284-S 166. 
DONATIONS 

•Senior 
Bar and Alumni Club-S350 in proceeds from a fundraiser held during the Penn State football weekend will be contributed to the MS campaign. 

•Tau 
Beta Pi-The engineering fraternity will be making a sizeable donation to NO Millions Against MS. 

•Direct 
Donations-Individual and group contributions are always welcomed. To make a direct donation, call Aline Gioffre at 283·2179 or mail checks to "NO Millions Against MS" to: Student Activities Office attn. ND Millions Against MS La Fortune Student Center, 1st F'loor Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 


Gioffre was happy with the Valentine's Day turnout for the MS sales. The Glee Club deserves recognition for sharing profits from their singing-grams. 
NO Millions Against MS urges students to be involved in activities which will benefit the drive. 
Gioffre says, "The support of the campus groups reflects the support of the campus. We hope t by the end, we have so much support that we have no choice but to win (the concert)." 
~ 
' 
~ 
\ 
' 
l ' l 
\ 
~ ~ 
~ 
,,~ 
I. 
,;
,. 
Sports Briefs 
Zaltm Hall dominated last night's men's interhall swim­ming meet held at the Rockne Memorial Pool. Zahm's total of 77 points easily outdistanced Sorin's 31. Keenan finished third with 23 points, and was followed by Fisher with 7 points, Cavanaugh with 6 and Alumni with 5. Badin Hall was the only hall to participate in the women's interhall meet, and finished the evening with 6 points.-The Observer 
Aracquetball tournamentis being held by NVA for all members of the student body, faculty and staff. There will be three divisions: one for intermediate players, one for advanced players and one for mixed doubles teams. The deadline for entries is today. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Observer 
The Notre Dan1e Rugby Club will hold an 
organizational meeting tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Uttle Theatre. No experience or athletic ability is required. For more information, call Clarke at 277-7561 or Steve at 272-0828.­
The Obseroer 

A snow softball tourna.tnent is being held by 
the NO Millions Against MS Committee the weekend of March 1-3. The entry fee for teams of five men and five women is S 10, which goes to MS. Prizes will be awarded to the winning team. Anyone who is interested may sign up on Tuesday, Feb. 26, from 3:30p.m. to 5:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. For more information, call Steve at 283­1045 orJeff at 283-1049.-The Obseroer 
Wednesday, February 20, 1985 -page 8 
St. John's still number one 
Georgia gains spot in AP Top 20 
Assodakd Pnss 
The University of Georgia is the first Southeastern Conference team in seven weeks to be ranked in The Associated Press basketball poll, and Bulldog Coach Hugh Durham believes the lack ofa cable television contract has a lot to do with the league's absence. 
Georgia was one of three new teams in the Second Ten this week, coming in at No. 18, as the top ofthe rankings remained much the same with St. John's, Georgetown and Michigan holding the top three spots. Virginia Commonwealth moved in at No. 1 7 after an absence of three weeks. Boston College, out of the Top 20 for four weeks, returned at No. 20. 
Georgia, 17-6, was ranked for the first time this year despite a loss last week to Vanderbilt. The Bulldogs have won eight of their last 1 0 games, sparked by freshman center Cedric Henderson, whose recruit­ment has been the subject of an NCAA investigation. 
"We've been close before, but every time we got where I thought 
we should be ranked, we dropped a game," Durham said. Durham also cited the lack of a TV tie-in. 
"If you look at it, the teams that are ranked pretty high are on some of those national cables," he said. No. 1 St. Johns and No. 2 Geor­getown are in the Big East, whose games are shown on the ESPN cable network. 
St. Johns kept its top ranking by running its winning streak to 1 7 with three victories. The Redmen, 22-1, received 59 first-place votes and 1,199 points from the nationwide panel of sportswriters and broadcasters. 
Georgetown, 23-2, second to St. John's in the Big East, held the second spot in the poll, receiving the only other first-place vote and 1,141 points. Michigan, 20-3 and the leader in the Big Ten standings, remained third with 1,044. 
Memphis State, 20-2, and Okla­homa, 21-4, swapped places from last week. The fourth-ranked Tigers held on to their Metro Conference lead with three league victories and finished with 975 points. The Sooners, who received 958 points, posted two Big Eight conference victories during the week. 
Duke, 18-4, moved up a notch to sixth, replacing fellow Atlantic Coast Conference member Georgia Tech, which fell to eighth. The Blue Devils received 913 points. Another Big East team, 19-4 Syracuse, had 873 points, climbing one position to seventh. 
APTopT_,ty The Top Twenty college college bask teams in The 
Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses. this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
areitalicized. 

1. St. John's (59) 22-1 1199 2. Georgetown (1} 23-2 1141 3. Michigan 20.3 1044 4. Memphis St. 20-2 975 5. Oklahoma 21-4 958 
6. Duke 18-4 913 7. Syracuse 19-4 873 
8. Georgia Tech 18-5 720 
9. So. Methodist 20-5 675 10. Louisiana Tech 22-2 622 11. Nev.-Las Vegas 20.3 549 12. Tulsa 19-4 496 13. North carolina 19-6 375 14. Iowa 19-6 360 15. Kansas 20-6 353 16. Illinois 20.7 311 17. Va. Commonwealth 20-4 161 18. Georgia 17-6 159 19. Oregon St. 18-5 84 20. Boston College 18-6 73 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Centt::r, acct::pts classified advt::rtising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday 
through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's offict'. locatt::d on the third floor of Haggar Collegt:: Center, a<.:cepts classifieds from. 1.2:~0 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is ~ p.m. All dassificds must be prepaid, t'itht::r in person or by maiL Charge is I 0 ct::nts per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters ·r da ·. 

NOTICES  FOR SALE  HELP LOST I lost my keys at the brar or somewhere behind P.W. My roommates dont like me and keep locking me out. My  PERSONALS  SPEND SATURDAY NIGHT DANCING WITH CBS RECORDS AND WVF1, THE ALTERNATIVE  ATIENTION Anyone in McGRATH'S GRASS CLASS(Bio 1 02A} Those 5 extra points were a gift,but the man's getting  
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 ........................!........... TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 '  MAXEU TAPES!! XLII 90's $25/case of 10 Ph.1596 or 124 Dillon  rector her keys to my car so now I can't drive. (H. V.day-A.G.D.) iF YOU SEE A SET OF KEYS for room 522 on a ring with a blue plastic hook call LOU et 4110.help  ·········· Did you lose a woman's blue peacoat in the south dining hall lobby Tuesday night? Do you have mine? Please call Liz 2663 -I want mine back!  ORIENTATION "85 needs you! Be an S.M.C. SURVIVAL LEADER. Attend one of two mandatory meetings: Wed. Feb. 20, at 6:30pm Thurs. Feb. 21, at 6:30pm  PRETTY PEEVED at us· PLEASE,Iet's cooperate and keep the gifts coming. --A GRATEFUL EMIL DROPOUT P.S.-11 car­rots aren't in season,plant pineapple seeds.  
WOROPROCESSING AND TYPING 272-8827 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MAS. COKER, 233-7009. Professional Typing Tina 23Nl749 PROFESSIONAL TYPING: CALL TINA 232-8749 ride needed to Phila. area for spring break.call1213 ask for Bob. WORDPROCESSING 2n-604s ··············· ...... ········· PROFESSIONAL TYPING: CALL TINA 232-8749 WANTED 3UTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUN­DANCEKID TONITE AT 7 AND 9:30PM SMC CARROLL HALL  FOR SALE: GREAT PARTY CAR 1970 OLDS 98 $400 X-1768 75 Chevy Monza; A/C, P/S, P/8, AfT, AMIFM. Dependable, good cond. $1000. 272-3544 .............................................................. DISKS GETTING FLOPPY? BASF 31/2" COMPUTER DISKS FOR YOUR MACIN­TOSH COME IN PLASTIC LIBRARY CASES. $35.25/10 ASK FOR DAVE X3049 TICKETS IF YOU GOT IT, I NEED IT !! I NEED FOUR (4) GA'S FOR THE BYU GAME IF YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN DISTRESS PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT 3714. PLEASE HELP' Need 4 or 5 BYU GA's Will Pay BIG BUCKS.Woody 1188 Need 2 GA's for MAROUETIE call ROSS 1897  FOUND: A set of car keys on a turquoise and black key chain on the lot be'-1 Walsh and Sarin on Sunday Feb. 17. 1985. To claim call Beth at2978. AAAAAAAAAA.H11'm losing everything! 1 black gloves-Haggar 2/8 (name inside) 2 blue back-pack only one strap 3 red plaid scarf-saturday night between PWand Oil· lon 1• you found any of these treasures Pteue call me (Giraffe, 1714) and you will be rewarded with total conciousness on your deathbed. lost: Double-strand gold bracelet at the Americana last Friday night. Special sen· timental value. If found, please call Kathy at 284-4188 LOST: One very small ladies· gold Seiko watch. in South Dining Hall before Christmas break. I know it was a long long time ago, and you're probably used to wearing it by now, but if you have a heart. I'd like it back, with no questions asked, eKcept maybe "How did you get that little tiny watch to fit your wrist?" (You see. I have a very small wrist and it only fits me}. Thanks, I'd appreciate it. Yours in Notre  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UOUOA, CARRY OUT 'l1L 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. . .......................................... ········ BEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE: DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING BREAK '85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­DENTS. CALL 239-5136 OR STOP BY SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1.5 LAFORTUNE, MON-FRI. 6-9pm. IF YOU GOT IT, I NEED IT !! I NEED 4 GA'S FOR THE BYU GAME IF YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN DISTRESS PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT 3714. RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. Need riders to Kanua City for Spring Break. Call Tom K1479 ASH WEDNESDA V MASS -LYONS HALL 10:30A TRIBUTE TOTHEBEST -­FR. STEVE  in the Haggar College Center Par1or I really really need 2 or 3 GA's to the March 3rd Washington game Christine (SMC}4064 ATTENTION All members of Notre Dame's 1985 Microbiology Marketing Club Our gala annual petri dish sale will begin soon! Watch this space for details. Ernie ..... What can we say? We hope you know how very special you are to us. Happy birthday. love, C&K THE TIME HAS COME! for FING'S KINGS Jimmy "Whiskey" Sower Michaei"Big Man" Muldowney "Young Ed" Roohan Brian "The Creamer" Behmer and the rest of the Boys. Gentlemen. you·ve waited too long. It's show time ST. ED'S HOOPS--AWESOME' A TALENT SHOW SPONSORED BY THE SOCIAL AL TEA­ Volunteara: Elementary & high school teachers and student supervisors are needed to work in the catholic Missionary Diocese of Prince George, B.C., Canada. We ask. if possible. a 2-year commitment Room. board. medical coverage and stipend are provided. For more informa­tion, please contact: Frontier Apostofate. P.O. Box 7000. Prince George. British Columbia, V2N3Z2, Canada. BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN, CYNDI LAUPER, FLASH IN THE PAN, AND MORE -CBS RECORDS and WVFI invite you to a Video Dance Party on Sat­urday, Feb. 23.look-alike contests could win you $300. in CBS records and other prizes. Prizes from CAMELOT MUSIC and AUDIO SPECIALISTS too DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY WITH CBS RECORDS AND WVFI, THE ALTERNA­TIVE. YO EMDI Y~H WHAT'S UP MAN? THERE GOES THAT GIRL THEY CALL ROXANNE. U T F 0 socnetime& ' get su 01sgusted 1 just want :o throw my hands up in the a1; and try to eaten thE''"' w1th the stubs  
$1.50 ROBERTREDFORD,PAULNBNMAN BE THERE!  Help' Need two GAs for the Washington Basketball game. Call 3790 and ask for Bob  Dame. Kathy (3747). I LOST MY BB TICKET AT THAT TER­RIBLE GAME AGAINST LOYOLA SEC­ "Get ashes, get chicks." Hey, Gibson. LIVE YOUR DREAM'  NATIVES CLUB FIRST PRIZE $100 ALL INTERESTED ACTS MEET IN UTILE THEATRE ON THURSDAY. FEB  "anyone can code Lynne Ewing.  
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745.  NEED BYU STUD TICKET CALL RAY 2066 need 2 GAs to BYU call ELAINE 2878 or 3186  TION 3 ROW 2. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL JACK AT 1670. MY NAME IS ON IT. PLEASE. I AM A SENIOR AND THIS IS MY LAST CHANCE TO SEE OUR TEAM 00 WELL  Hump Day needs a little help. Wednesday afternoons. catch the DJ's PEANUTS, KURT HOLZBERLEIN. AND lYNN CROWELL on WI/FI. the ALTERNATIVE radio fOf the ND·SMC community.  21 AT 7PM HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CAU THE YELLOW SUB 272-4453 MO-TH 8-11pm FA-SA8pm-1am  You were thanks So you·re  a goddess of a waitress. your JPW dinner table .....................• the Computer Godd....  
Need riders to Kanan City for Spring Break. Gall Tom xt479 Need a qualified PIANIST to give lessons to an ND student Gall Rob 1 076 Ride needed to Beloit Wisconsin leaving 2/22 and returning on 2/24 It is on the way to Madison. Please call Stacey AT 3882 if you can help 10 P.n-time r-chera -nted by Chl.:.go publishing company. Have fun on campus wtllle •mlng money ...It can be done! Call 312-266-4840 or write SARSAPARILLA, Ltd., 62 W. Huron, Chlc:ago,IL 60610. ' Need ride to CHICAGO/North Shore this weekend Can leave 11am Fri. Rob-­3305.  HELP' Need 3GA's or Student Tickets for the BYU Game. Will PAY BIG BUCKS!! PLEASE call Pete at 1170. NEED BYU TIX CALL3646 SAN FRANCISCO FLIGHT SPRING BRK Highest offer-Tim 1187 HELP!!! My parents have never seen an NO bas· ketball game. and I'm about to graduate! If you have any available GA's for a weekend game. call Lone at 2810-Today' (I'm a bit of a pup, so money is no object.) NEED TWOGA OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR BYU GAME. CALL DON 1219  I'M LOSING IT' I lost my brown horn-rim glasses, contJct case. and a necktie, all in a blue ND pencil case, last Friday inCus­hing Hall. If found, please call Paul ) 1549. or turn into Lost and Found. lost: Double-strand gold bracelet at the Americana last Friday nig~t. Special sen­timental value. If found, please call Kathy at284-4188. FOUND: One woman's thin brown leather glove outside olleMans. call284-4068 to daim. SOUTH BEND WINTER COLD GOT YOU DOWN? TELL ME ABOUT IT-AT LEAST YOU HAVE A JACKET-BUT ONE OF YOU LUCKY PEOPLE HAS TWO AND ONE OF THEM'S MINE! WHOEVER INTENTIONALL V OR INAD­ NEED A GREAT SATURDAY NIGHT? WVFI. the alternative. and CBS RECORDS present a Video Dance Party --­Sat, Feb. 23 at 9:00 in Chataqua $1 .00 per person, $1.50 per couple --­music, dancing, give-aways. WVFI AND CBS RECORDS BRING YOU FRIDAY NIGHT'S ALTERNATIVE! • HEY JOEl ARE YOU EXPERIENCED? THE ONLY DJS THAT MATTEAI ARE CALL PAT AT 3318 OR 3317 OR DON AT 3573 CLEAR THE PURPLE HAZE OF OTHER CAMPUS DJS FROM YOUR MIND AND MAKE YOUR NEXT PARTY OR SVR THE ONLY DANCE THAT MATTERS! NEED RIDE TO DENVER FOR SPRING BREAK, OR RIDERS TO RENT A CAR. THINK OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN  Ruth Henry (alias SLASH) is 21 today! Happy Birthday. Love, Crash and Schwaz Happy Birthday Slash, Thought: People with only 1 lens shouldn't play with kmves. .............................................................. Slash. Cut it all loose on your 21st Birthday! RITA: You're a Parietals Breaker, Euchre Player, Shot Taker... Don't you mess around with D'love, Deb and Chuck Help. I need 4 tickets to the B.Y.U. game and I'm 4 short. can you help? If so, can TerryatAT 1675. WANTED: ONE N.D. MALE SENIOR  huh? Is that why you get computer Valentines? Joe M.(with Chinese accent}"l can't find itiYou sure you got one?" Its a brutal crowd. LOCOM: OH MY!!! Love and kisses, the BPGirls Fishhead Probation is illegal. immoral, unfair. unethical, and unbelievable. The P.E. upper echelon deserves a severe slap on the wrist. or at least a good party Kinko does not love you. This is a warning from Ueutenant Fish. She's Ruth....and is accepting birthday hugs, kisses, and clouts to the head today in room 233 Walsh'!  
,, -~ I' I  Need ride to Chicago/Evanston area 2/21 p.m. will 'share expenses Pis call Kate x4272 Help! I need 4 bckets for the B.Y.U. game and rm 4 short. Can you help? If so. call Terry at AT 1675. RIDE NEEDED TO FORT WAYNE FEB. 22 CALL: JOHN 2n-6559 Need riders to P1ttsburgn or anywhere along 1-80 leave 2/22 call Joe 2076 or 2085 RIDE NEEDED: INDIANA UNIVERSITY­BLOC>MINGTON FRIDAY FEB.22­SUN.24 WILL SHARE EXPENSES  yyyyyNEED2 GAs tor BYU gameII Call Lauren at 3781 .yyyy ..... Help! I need 4 bckets to the B.Y.U. game and I'm 4 short Can you help? If so. call Terry at 1675 NEE'D''4''G~'F'6R''BV'U''CALL''BiNG6 x1178 I LOST/FOUND lost: pair of gloves and hat left on bus after Chicago Trip please bring to Dr. Holman FOUND KEYS BY LIBRARY 2·11-85  VERTENTLY TOOK MY WHITE ESPIRIT JACKET FROM SENIOR BAR PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE LEMANS HALL LOST AND FOUND·NO QUESTIONS ASKED.(WHITE FLANNEL WITH SHEEP FUR COLLAR) LOST:KEY RING WITH SMC I.D. AND KEYS. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL SMC 5489 HIHON1 IS YOUR PROGRAM DONE? COMMONS WITH JOE TONITE? WHADDA VA SAY? LOVEYA ME  HIGH!! CALL JUSTINE 2633 Theo a..jora and other lnt.-ted per­sona: Don't mlu Fr. Melloh's talk on "Lent: our Journey to Eater"-tonight at 7 pm In 341 O'Shag. bridge players of Notre Dame utilize your expertise and/or luck tw::l politically minded individuals are looking for a game. interested parties call 3185 or 4238. Wanting to go on the SAB trip to Ft. Lauderdale but you don"t have the cash' Cal1283-3815 and find out about a great discount' LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: Com1ng this weekend-CARNIVAL REC BE THERE  FORMAL DATE. WILL SHARE ALL EX· P';:ONSES. MUST BE TALL(5'10),DARK & GOOD-LOOKING. PLEASE CALL CARLA4228. ANDRE. HAVE YOU BROKEN ANY SNOW SHOVELS LATELY? ........................................................... BOULIGNY BERNA. HERE'S YOUR LONG-AWAITED PERSONAL' ··············· MR. D'S CANNING FACTORY' MR. D. S CANNING FACTORY' BE THERE THURSDAY-FEB. 21. PRIZES RAFFLED OFF ALL NIGHT. SPONSORED BY THE JUNIOR CLASS FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE M.S. FUND DRIVE. ········· .............. .  Happy Birthday to you, Happy Birthday to you. Happy Birthday dear Ruthie. Happy Birthday to you1 love, mary ellen I really really need 2 or 3 GA's to the March 3rd Washington game Christine (SMC)4064 TU my Valentine Joe M. So Joe. V ou have to go. I hope you know. I disrespect you so. Th1s may seem low. Low. yes. but def!nately not alow blow.  
ANGIE SMC-5273  SET OF FIVE ON ONE RING  StengJe .. the King of Romance  OR BE SQUARE  YES. I CAN. AND I LIKE WHAT I SEE'  love.  
Susie  

The Observer Wednesday, February 20, 1985 -page 9 
'A' Division Playoffs 
Tonight St. Ed's (No. 4 seed) vs. Dillon (No. 5) Gym 1, 6p.m. 
Flanner (No. 3) vs. Grace (No. 6) Gym 1, ?p.m. Sorin (No. 1), Morrissey (No.2) get byes 
'B' Division 
Tonight Dillon B (No.4) vs. Stanford B (No.5) Gym2,6p.m. 
Grace B (No. 3) vs. Pangborn 8 (No. 6) Gym2, ?p.m. 
Morrissey 8 (No. 1 ), Off Campus B (No.2) get byes 
Your Military Service Skill is Worth Extra Income. 
In the Army Reserve, an E-5 with 4 years military experience from any service can pick up over $1946 a year to start, serving one weekend a month and two weeks per year. 
At the moment, Army Reserve units in the area are looking for prior service personnel to fill the following vacancies: 
Field Artillery Surveyor, Combat Signaler, Cannon Fire Direction Specialist, Legal Clerk, NBC Specialist. 
If you are trained in another field, training in the new specialties may be provided. For more information, contact your Army Reserve. SGT Brennan 234-4187 
Army Reserve. Be all you can be. , 

PLAYth• 7-ELEVEN CiAME! 
Durin,. NO Wam•n•• Ba•k•tball Gam•• 
next game: TONIGHT vs. Loyola 7pm 
YDU CAN BE A WINNER. .lUST BY SHDWINCi UP!! 

If th• Irish ar• ah•ad afth•ir appan•nt by eilh•r ••ven ar 
•l•v•npaints at halflim• ar at the end af th•CJ•m•. yau CJ•l a caupanfar a ... 
FREE BIO OULP 

Notre Dame sports doctor lectures on characteristics of knee injuries 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
Sports Writer 

Dr. Leslie Bodnar, sports doctor at Notre Dame and an expert on knee injuries, spoke last night at the foot­ball auditorium of the ACC on the various methods for treating and preventing such injuries. 
"Many activities are responsible for serious knee problems," said Dr. Bodnar. Skiing, soccer, football or any other sport which requires a lot ofrunning, cutting, and changing di· rection make the knees vulnerable. However, these problems occur in other walks of life: automobile acci­dents, falls from ladders, etc. So it is not only in sports that we see such injuries. 
"Recent studies have shown that the single most important method of preventing injuries is preseason 
conditioning. Such appropriate preparation will definitely diminish the extent of damage or the amount of surgery required. The condition­ing is most effective if it involves all ofthe body, not only the quadriceps and the hamstrings. The lower ex­tremities must be in especially good shape. 
"-!\5 far as preventive measures to be used after having injured one's knee," Dr. Bodnar said, "lateral bracing is very popular right now. As a matter of fact, the demand for these braces is very high, and Notre Dame uses them as well. However, despite the great number of bal­lplayers using them currently, the statistics don't bear out their value as truly effective measures. Sometimes the injured person will be required to find some other out-
Spring Break Clubs 
PRESENTS... 

ASPEN 
Spring Break March 15-24 

$397--INCLUDES 6 Days Skiing at any of Aspen's 4 Mountains Round Trip Transportation via Deluxe Party Coach 7 Nights Accomodations at The Highlands Inn -Coble Color TV, Restaurant, Sauna, and Swimming Pool $75.00 Deposit required to reserve space 
For information call 283-3573 
ESSAY CONTEST 
Topic: Hunger Creative essay and Editorial/opinion categories 
$25 award for best ·~:essay in each category 
call 2851 by Feb. 25 
·:.. 

Spqnsqred by Wqrld Hunger Coalition 
.__..,,~,~~'··.--a.llftllma----~-ld 
let so he can save his knee from fur­
ther damage." 

Citing running as one of the most popular methods of exercise, Dr. Bodnar remarked that "running is not necessarily bad. There are a lot of factors which contribute to knee problems as a result ofrunning. Run­ning uphill and downhill, rough ter­rain, icy ground, and poor footwear all play a part in the injuries. The key to avoiding them is to maintain flexibility with warmups before and warmdowns after running. 
"We're very pleased with the progress we've made in treating bad knees," continued Dr. Bodnar. "We started operating around 1950 and we've made a lot of improvements but there remain many cases that simply can't be brought back to nor· mal. For example, in instances of ligament damage, surgery is success­ful only about 85 percent ofthe time and of those successes, very few ever recover fully. Actually, it's pure luck if the patient gets back to nor­mal. We can only hope to reduce the injury to a slight instability. 
"Years ago, cortisone shots were used to extend the careers of ath­leteswho didn't want to be forced to withdraw completely from the game. However, although these shots are still used, we rarely administer them more than one or two times since we have found that the cortisone causes cartilage damage. It is an anti-inftammatory drug, and it eases the pain, but longterm usage may lead to arthritis. This is the case with Dick Butkus, who is now involved in a legal battle with the Bears because he contends that he was not warned of what might happen if he were given cor­tisone in large doses over a long time period." 
Ramblers 
continuedfrom page 12 

joining Mimnaugh in the Loyola 
backcourt is 5-8 junior guard Kathy 
Leyden, the team's leading scorer, 
who averages better than 15 points 
per game. The frontcourt is not big 
but it is balanced, with 5-10 senior 
Kathy Myers and 6-0 junior Jackie 
Hustzi at the forwards, flanking 6-0 
center Sue Busiel. Another key 
player in the frontcourt is 6-0 junior 
center Maureen McNerney. 

The Irish will have an edge in size 
on the front line with 6-0 Lynn Eb­
ben, 6-0 Mary Beth Schueth, and 6-2 
Sandy Botham starting, but DiStanis­
lao knows that guards Trena Keys 
and Mary Gavin will have to play 
well ifthe Irish are to win. 

"We've got a little more height 
than Loyola, with Trena, Lynn, 
Sandy, and Mary Beth, but the inside 
game won't be the major part ofour 
game plan," explains DiStanislao . 
"We're going to have to hurt them 
from the outside in order to win. 
That means that Trena, Lynn, and 
Laura (Dougherty) will have to 
shoot well from the perimeter." 

Similarly, Loyola's offense cannot 
be stopped by shutting down just 
one phase of it. 

"We can't figure on just taking away their inside game," explains the Irish coach, "because they shoot well from the perimeter. Their leading scorer (Leyden) is a guard, so you know that they can get the job done from the outside just as well." 
A victory over the defending con­ference champs tonight would be a tremendous boost to Notre Dame's hopes for an NSC title in 1985, but it could be the toughest assignment that the Irish have faced this season in conference play. 
"Loyola is still the team to beat in the conference," says DiStanislao. "They're playing well right now. They're a team with good solid players and suong leadership. They're not flashy but they get the job done." 
YOUR BEST DEAL TO FLORIDA YOU DRIVE (TO THE PARTY) WE DRIVE (THE PARTY STARTS HERE) $94-5perroom ~ 184-5perroom 104-4 per room ~ 194-4perroom INCLUDES: FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN UP • Round trip motor coach transportation to beaut1ful Daytona Beach (WE DRM Packages Only) We use nothing but modem h1ghway coaches call 239-5136 or• FREE refreshments available on the motor coach on the way down (to begin the party) • E1ght Flor1da days/seven endless ntghts at one of our stop by 1.5 exc1t1ng oceanfront hotels. located nght on the Daytona Beach strip Your hotel has a beaut•ful pool sun deck 0" conditioned rooms. color TV. and a n1ce long stre:ch of Lafortune, the beach • A full schedule of fREE pool deck portoes every day Senior Class • A full list of pre-arranged d•scounts 10 save you money 1n Daytona Beach Office­• Travel represe,.,tat1ves to insure a smooth trip and a goodt1me • Opt•onol s1de excurs1ons to Dlsnev World Epeot deep Mon-Fri, 6-9 pmsea f1sh1ng party cru,ses etc • All to•es ono tops Open to all ND/SMC students THE QREATEST Tll-tE ·THE BEST PRICE sponsored by the Senior Class  

By BRIAN McCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
With the last of the scholarship players leaving the Notre Dame hockey program in a few years, head coach Lefty Smith is looking for ways to develop more players. The junior varsity hockey team is one of the products of Smith's efforts to keep hockey at Notre Dame alive. 
Actually, the loosely knit group of about 20 players is technically nei­ther a junior varsity team nor an offi­cial club team. The team receives no backing from the athletic depart­ment except for an hour of ice time each day at the ACC rink. All team members must provide their own equipment and any traveling costs are either paid by the team itself or with money from fund-raisers like this week's raffle, which will enable the squad to travel to Indiana Uni­versity this weekend. 
The team began to take shape back in September when Car• Bas­tien, a graduate student who played three years ofhockey for MaGill Uni­versity in Canada, contacted Smith to see if he had any eligibility left. Although Bastien learned he was no longer eligible to play varsity hockey, Smith brought up the idea of starting the junior varsity team. 
Bastien said he was interested and after the varsity tryouts, Smith told the players who did not make the varsity that they could play on the 

..----­
w ac ., w w 
•
" 

The SAB Ideas & Issues Committee Presents 
.PIET SCHABORT 
Vice Consul for Information of the 
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA 
at 8 pm, Wednesday, February 20th 
• 
LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
''SOUTH AFRICA: AN 
The Observer Wednesday, February 20, 1985 -page 10 
JV hockey team finds great success in first year 
:**** * * * * * * * * * * * ****:
t DISDNGUISHED STUDENT ! 
.. * 
£ AWARD i 
•t The Notre Dame Alumni Association will be accepting nominations *~ 
;ie from February 1 to February 22 for the 4th annual Distinguished Student .~ '?' Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor an out-;:£ standing senior student at the University based on the foUowing criteria: ! 
;ir 1) Service to Notre Dame, ~ '?' 2) Service to the Community, and, iC 3) Good Academic Standing. 
.. 

:t Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on f the second floor of the Administration Building, The Centerfor 
• Social Concerns, and at Campus Ministry Office in the * 
:t Memorial Library ~ 
• 
Nominations must be submitted to the Association by Feb. 22, 1985. * 


.. * 
********************************************•••******* 
Exciting and Challenging Career Opportunities 
Master of Business Administration 
junior varsity team, giving them a 
chance to remain in contactwith the 
program. As news of the new team 
spread around the campus, others 
joined the squad and practices soon 
were under way. 
At first, Bastien and assistant 
coach Mike Barry had trouble fin­
ding games because most of the 
junior varsity teams had their 
schedules already filled. Eventually, 
a schedule was put together, with 
the opponents ranging from the Fort 
Wayne juniors, a club made up of 16 
to 18 year olds, to the Ferris State 
junior varsity, a school which plays 
in the Central Collegiate Hockey As­
sociation. 
Smith has allowed Bastien and 
Barry to remain in charge of the 
coaching the entire season. 
"We've been teaching our own 
system," says Bastien. "We have to 
stress the fundementals of passing 
and position a lot more than the var­
sity does. Some ofthe guys played on 
high school teams that didn't have 
very good programs." 
The team struggled before Christmas break, but duringJanuary the practices and coaching started to pay off. 
"The team turned around during January," says Bastien. "We really jelled. All of a sudden the team started doing all the things I had been teaching them, things they weren't doing the week before." 
Currently the Irish have an 8-2-1 

AFRICAN PERSPECTIVE" 
record, with their only losses com­ing at the hands of Ferris State. Leading the way have been Chris Kleeva, Kevin O'Neill, Hugh Wade and goalie Pete McCormick. The Irish have three games remaining on their schedule but are anxious to get some more. 
"Everyone is excited about going to IU this weekend," says Bastien. "We want to go 11-2-1 and we think we can." 
As important as these games are for the players, some of them hope to use the junior varsity team as a stepping stone to the varsity. Cer­tainly this is what Smith had in mind 
when he decided  to organize the  
team.  
"We  can  only  have  so  many  

people on the ice at one time," says Smith. "Some of them need addi­tional work to develop their skills but the interball competition doesn't provide enough competi­tion. We announced the team as an alternative to interhall." 
Although Notre Dame did have an official junior varsity hockey team in the past, Smith sees the current squad developing into dub team. 
"It the program develops success­fully, it could apply to the athletic office for full club status," says Smith. "It's an alternative for the bor­derline players to give them a chance to improve. It can be a feeder system but never the type of situa­tion where expenses are paid." 
The players on the junior varsity team will not mind if they do not al­ways travel first class, as long as they get a chance to play hockey. 
"These kids are out on the ice and work for the love of the game," says Smith. 
Hopefully, the hard workwill help the players improve to the point where they can earn a spot on the 


A small. highly selective MBA program has been designed by The Ohio State University ro provide professional management education to students with nonbusiness academic backgrounds Th1s two-year full-time program 
• 
facilitates a high level of student and faculty-student Interaction . 

• 
has no prerequisite cqur ~~ work 

• 
is espeCially attractive tc students with liberal arts. scientific. and other nonbusiness backgrounds 

• 
is builr upon a t1ghtly integrated study of foundarion management tools and concepts 


• offers rhe opportunity to concentrate in one or two management f1elds through elective course work 
• is offered by one of the top 25 schools of management in the country and 1s accred1ted by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Bus1ness 
Last year's graduates were very successful1n find1ng career opportunities. Examples of positions they selected 1nclude the follow1ng: 
• 
assistant to the ch1ef executive officer. Midland Mutual Life 

• 
field markering manager. Ford Motor


•
Company 

varsity. For others, they enjoy playing hockey and are glad to get all the ice time they can. 
Until this year, a hockey player had no where to turn after getting cut from the varsity, but now, through the efforts of people like Bastien and Barry, the varsity hope­fuls as well as the people who just want to give hockey one last try have the opportunity to represent Notre Dame on the ice. 
STUDY SKILLS & TIME MANAGEMENT 
Thurs., Feb. 21 5:00-6:00 pm Rm. 300 Counseling and Psychological Services 



• 
management tra1nee with an International assignmenr. Chase Manhattan Bank 

• 
assistant producr manager. Pillsbury 

• 
financial analyst. Hewlett Packard 


• 
1nventory control manager. IBM CorporC~tion 

• 
account executive. Merrill Lynch 

• 
consultant. Pnce Wate. house • management tra1nee · 111th an 1nternat1onal 



ass1gnment. Procter and Gamble For a brochure descnbing this program and application 1nformat1on. please contacr: 
Director, MBA Progr•ms The Ohio State University 
112H~H•II 
1775 College RCNtd Columbus. OH 4J21G-I 399 614-422-8511 

The Ohio State University 



~4[Jt~tal~--------------------------------------~W--ed_n_e_s_d_a_y_,F_e_b_r.ua_ry 2_o_,_l9•8•5--~-p-ag_e
__ ___ll 
Doonesbury 
Zeto 

C0"'1E. LITTLe FRIEND. I SHALL TI'KF YO<J ro mY DORm RCOit\ GREAT. BuT 
Garry Trudeau 
4RE 'tOI.JC/l.AZY? 
IIJHAT CAN Y()(J 
GCJOP/ NOW
W Yal IQJ()MIfOIU 

/5 IT? asavet 
6/JILJ.' I'M 7RY70MANY /?Ea.XT/tN5 

I IF 
F!ELING CHANNEi.IT!

ru1..05C?MY8t¥fT, 
611/LT/ ' 

ffli.J.HKJES,MY VACATI~ HOMe, 
MY.. MY.. HtY! 
I 
I 


Kevin Walsh 
WELL; B£'NER, HERE's 
WELL, HEU..u BOYS. 
r>uBLIN HALL 



Campus 
•4 
-5 p.m. -Workshop, "Job Offer Decision Making," Kate Dascenzo, Assistant Director, Career & Placement Services, Career & Placement Office. 

•4:20 
p.m.-Colloquium,"Lady orTiger· Nuclear Theory in the Early 1930's," Prof. Laurie Brown, Northwestern University, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•5 
-7 p.m. -Senior Formal Registration, LaFortune and LeMans, S56 Bid Price. 

•6: 
15 p.m. -Circle K Meeting, Center for Social Concerns. 

• 
7 p.m. -Basketball, NO Women vs. Loyola, ACC Arena. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.-Film, "Annie Hall," Engineering Auditorium, S1.50. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m. -Film,"Butch Cassidy and the Sun­dance Kid," Carroll HaJI ( SMC ), Sl.50. 

•7:30p.m.-Lecture, 
"WhoSpeaksfortheEarth?" Miriam Therese MacGillis, Genesis Farm, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by CILA, Free. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "South Africa: An African Per­spective," Piet Schabort, Vice-Consul for South Africa, Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Free. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Human Nature and Homeric Self," Dr. James Redfield, University of Chicago, 122 Hayes Healy. 

•8:30 
p.m. -Wednesday Night Film Series, "Under the Roofs ofParis," ETS Theatre in the CCE. 

•9 
· 9:30. p.m. -Radio Talk Show, "Campus Perspectives," Guest: Bill Healy (SBP-elect), WVFI 64. 


TV Tonight 


Bloom County Berke Breathed 
The Far Side Gary Larson 


How pets 1lke to ride on other planets. 
IS tr 

•ririE t.ENNON 
The Daily CrossW"ord 
ACROSS 34 A feast-62 Issues 12 Ram 1 Mild cigar famine 63 Mercatoria! 13 Refuse 6 Established 
37 Peel item 18 Hibernia 11 Garfield 38 Ricedish 64 Mideast title 23 Call-dayfor one 
39 Fleet steed 65 Plus 25 Coal measure 14 Gimlet kin 40 Part of SPCA: 26 Col. faculty 15 Love: lt. 
abbr. member 
16 Hockey name 17 Kind of musket 41 Fr. Revolution DOWN 19 Spyorg. leader 1 Taxis 27 Wargod 20 Brought to 42 Harden: var. 2 Humdinger 28 Salmagundi 
court 43 Wild ass 3 Chill 29 Dunderhead 21 Stravinsky 45 Railroaded 4 Submitted 30 Articulated a 22 -Peak, Colo. 46 Stoat 5 Cal. fort certain way 24 Raison d'-48 Metallic 
26 Kindof sound 31 QEDwordfertilizer 49 "-Passes" 6 Canal boat 33 Employ27 James or 50 Kind of bog 7 Early pulpit 35 SingularMarilyn 52 Ms Moreno 8 Crabbed 36 Retired 
30 Springlike 56-Paulo 9 Bitter vetch 38 Attendant 32 Strange 57 Skinflints 10 Becorne 39 Tea/ate/eat33 Salome danced 60 Ear: pref. discouraged for example
for him 61 Slip 11 Whippersnapper 41 Handcuff 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 11:00p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 12:00a.m. 
2 J • 5 
16 Barney Miller zz WKRP in Cincinnati 18 Wheel ofFortune 16 Hishway to Heaven Z2 Charles ln Charge 28 Fall Guy zz E.R. 16 Facts ofIJfc 22 Movie • Murder With Mirrors 28 Dynasty 16 Sara 16 St. Elsewhere l8 Hotel 16 News<:entcr 16 ;u 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 ~ Movie 16 Tonight Show 2l Magnum/Movie 28 ABC News Nightline 28 Love Connection 

42 Sea eagle 51 Alleviate 44 SmaII drink 53 "-a far, 45 Suits far..." 46-Downs 54 Malde­47 Pampas gear 55 Aide: abbr. 48 Journal 58-it up 50 -le Moko 59 N.Z. parrot 
Tuesday's Solution 
1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 2/20/85All Rights Reserved 


Tonight and tomorrow n_:ig~h--t____11--,.... 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 $1.50 Engineering Auditorium  

S~orts 

.
.. 

Thr Obolervr:r/Vic <rtlarino 
stopped in Sunday's game against Detroit. Larry Burkepreviews the contest below. 
Irish women entertain Ramblers in 
;
.. 
i an important conference match up 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
An important week of North Star Conference play begins tonight for the Notre Dame women's basketball team as the Loyola (Chicago) Ramblers visit the ACC for a 7:00 contest. In the next seven days, Mary 

r Distanislao's 13-8 Irish will face 
r defending NSC champion Loyola . 
I 
.. twice and also take on DePaul, the team which dealt Notre Dame its 
.. only North Star defeat of the season. 
The Ramblers have an overall record of 1 5-4 this year, and their 6­,. 2 NSC mark is good for second place \ behind the 6-1 Irish. Last Friday, Loyola registered an important vic­tory when it beat then-first-place 
,. 
Dayton at home to vault into the number-two spot. 
Tonight's game will be the first meeting of the season between Notre Dame and Loyola. The teams were scheduled to play on Jan. 25 in Chicago, but poor weather condi­
tions  prevented  the  Irish  from  
making the trip.  
Last  season,  the  Ramblers  won  

both meetings with the Irish, en route to a 9-1 NSC record. Loyola's Marty Hawkins, last year's Coach of the Year in the NSC, lost only two letterwinners from last year's team, and his current squad features an ef­fective blend of strong inside play and accurate perimeter shooting. 
Loyola has a high-powered offen­sive attack that averages over 70 points a game, and Hawkins' squad features five players with double­figure scoring averages. The key to the Rambler offense, however, is 5-2 senior point guard Faith Mimnaugh, who averages 11.6 assists per game. 
"Loyola is a team that doesn't make many mistakes," says DiStanis­lao. "Obviously, ifyou've got a point guard who can connect on 1 1 passes a game, you've got a player who throws good passes and a team with good hands. Loyola is a team that can hurt you a lot of different ways. Their players are very fundamen­tally sound -they post up well, they 
hit  the  boards  well,  and  they're  
. confident  with  the  ball  in  Mim­ 
naugh's hands."  

see RAMBLERS, page 9 

Notre Dame meets Fordham 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
Coming off its disappointing per­formance Monday night against Loyola of Maryland, the Notre Dame men's basketball team will invade Madison Square Garden tonight to take on the Rams of Fordham Uni­versity. 
The Rams stood at 15-8 through last week's game against St. Peter's, and were 7-4 in the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference. 
The game may not prove to be an exciting one, if only because the Rams will probably try to slow the ball down against the Irish. 
"Fordham is a very, very tough game to play because what they want to do is go to the four-corner offense as·soon as they get the lead," says Irish head coach Digger Phelps. 
"It ::ould be 2-0, but if we don't score and they get the ball, they'll spread it out. That's just how they play." 
Fordham's strong suit is its depth. The Rams lost only one player off last year's squad, and are in a posi­tion to use many different players if needed. 

~ 
"We really have quality depth on

I , 
this team," says Ram head coach Tom Penders. "We have more ver­satile players on this team than in the past, and that gives me the opportu­nity to use many different combina­tions." 


The Rams are led by senior guards Tony Mcintosh and Jerry Hobbie. The 6-2 Mcintosh leads the team in scoring with 19.5 points per game. A well-rounded player, Mcintosh is second on the team in assists with 70. 
Hobbie, who also stands 6-2, is probably best known for the unique reception he received last year at Stanford University when the Ram~ played at the Stanford Invitational. The Cardinal fans were so captivated with Hobbie that they started the 
Jerry Hobbie Fan Club and tried to get him to transfer to Stanford. 
But Hobbie is also well known for 
his basketball ability. His 141 assists 
and 57 steals lead the Rams, and he 
contributes 9. 7 points per game. 
Also helping out at the guard slot 
will be 6-3 sophomore George 
Jones, who has seen action in 23 
games, and 5-9 sophomore Eric 
Brooks, who has played in 19 of the 
Ram's contests. Together, they con­
tribute about five points per game. 
Six-seven forward Steve Samuels 
is the main force up front for 
Fordham. The leading scorer and 
rebounder last year, Samuels is 
scoring 16.2 ppg and is again leading 
the Rams in rebounding with 6.9 per 
game. 
The other starting forward is 6-5 
junior Don McCormick. McCormick 
helps out with 6.4 ppg and 4.4 
rebounds per game, and is known for his strong defensive play. 
Six-four sophomore Joe Franco, an explosive runner and jumper, also sees a great deal ofplaying time at forward, averaging 5.4 ppgand 2.7 rebounds. 
Center has been the question mark for the Rams this year, after losing last year's pivot man, Dave Roberson, to graduation.·6-6 sopho­more Frank Williams has stepped into the departed Roberson's spot this year, and has contributed 5.7 ppg anu 5. 5 rebounds. Six-ten Goran Skoko backs up the bulky Williams, and adds some much-needed height to the Ram lineup. 
Although the Irish hold a distinct height advantage over the Rams, the same was true on Monday night against the Loyola Greyhounds, when Notre Dame found out that height alone does not guarantee a victory. 
The Irish will try to force the Rams to abandon their slowdown, specifically by jumping out to an early lead. 
"I think the key thing in this game is that we just have to jump out, pound the boards, and get the lead at the beginning," says Phelps. 
After the scare against Loyola, the Irish know what it means to take one game at a time. And tonight's game against Fordham in New York will not be an easy one. It will require Notre Dame's undivided attention. 
Wednesday, February 20, 1985 -page 12 
College basketball helps the Garden 
Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 


Hello again, everybody! 

Tonight, Notre Dame's basketball team travels to New York to play Fordham, a highly inauspicious occasion in the annals of sports history. That doesn't mean it might not be a good game, but it is hardly the kind of matchup that stirs people to great interest. However, the saving grace of the game is the fact that it will once again take place in the mecca of the sports world--Madison Square Garden. 
At one time, people knew that if a major event in sports was going to happen, it was going to be in New York City. Ifit was baseball or football, you would head to Yankee Stadium or the Polo Grounds. If it was anything else, it was at Madison Square Garden. No questions asked. 
Times have changed, though. The best baseball in New York is played by the Mets in an annex of LaGuardia airport known as Shea Stadium. Ifyou want to see football in New York City. you had better hope Columbia is playing a home game, because the Giants and Jets are now playing under assumed names in New Jersey. Even the Nets of the old ABA have moved to NewJersey. New York is losing sports franchises faster than it loses money. 
Madison Square Garden still stands as the !J1ain host of sports in the Big Apple, but even the quality ofits events have diminished. The most popular sport in New York is currently professional wrestling. Names like Frazier, Lucas and Esposito have-given way to Hulk, Su­perfly and Kamala, the Ugandan Giant. The fervor surrounding the Knicks has been replaced by some bizarre disease ·known as "Hulkomania." One cringes at the very thought. 
Boxing, which used to hold all its great fights in the Garden, has since chosen such highly exotic and suspicious sites as Atlantic City, Reno, and Las Vegas to host its biggest bouts. Instead of the gamblers going to the bouts, the bouts now go to the gamblers. The last big fight to be held in this town was Ali-Frazier in 1971, unless you in­clude·Goetz vs. Screwdriver in 1985. 
Hockey in the Garden is still popular, but the only excitement provided by the Rangers is the fact they are valiantly trying for the last playoff spot in the Wales Conference. Herb Brooks may have been able to perform miracles with the U.S. Olympic team, but mor­tals do have their limits. The Rangers proved to be more troublesome to Brooks than the Soviets, and Herb is currently among the ranks of the unemployed. 
Then, there is the subject ofbasketball. Take the New York Knicks, please. This team, at one time, was the heart and soul of New York sports. Willis Reed, Dave DeBusschere, and Bill Bradley led a great franchise to an NBA title. The Knicks have since slid to a position where they will be able to do what few NBA teams can do --fail to make the playoffs. Other than Bernard King, the only good things that can be said about the Knicks are that they still play in New York and that they will finish the season. 
Fortunately for the folks at the Garden, there is another sport which seems to be growing in popularity in the Big Apple. Believe it or not, college basketball is undergoing a renaissance in New York. The city has become enamored with Chris Mullin, Lou Carnesecca and the St.John's Redmen. When the Redmen play at the Garden, it's tough to get a ticket. 'Ibe New York area hasn't been this taken with a college team since Fordham in 1971. That squad was coached by a young upstart named Digger Phelps, who coached his Rams to a victory over a team called Notre Dame. 
New Yorkers have always been people to support good college teams. In the •40s and '50s, fans poured through the turnstiles to see the great CCNY and NYU teams. Then, the college basketball-fixing scandal hit the East, and the sport virtually disappeared in New York, with the exception ofthe NIT tournament. 
Now, though, The Garden has some lucrative draws. St.John's has played several of its games there during the season, and of course, Notre Dame will be a big draw with the "Subway Alumni" tonight. NIT officials have tired of getting the best of the rest, and have decided to make their tournament a great pre-season event. Once again, the Garden will serve as host to the best in college basketball. 
Unfortunately, tonight's event couldn't even qualify for the "Best ofCarson". The Irish and Fordham might not be as bad as the Knicks and Golden State, but they certainly won't be much better. Notre Dame, after an inexcusable poor performance against Loyola, hopes to bounce back against Tom Penders' Rams. Hopefully, Notre Dame will be able to concentrate on tonight's game, instead of looking ahead as it did Monday night, or this game may wind up looking like another popnlar Madison Square Garden event. 
The Grand National Dog Show. 

Pick of the Week. .. I'm not sure if there has ever been any fencing in Madison Square Garden, but there will be plenty of it at the ACC in the next month. Coach Mike DeCicco's Irish fencers begin the home portion of their 1985 schedule Saturday with a six­team meet featuring defending national champion Wayne State to be held under the north dome. 
The Irish currently stand at 16-0, and are looking towards a possi­ble national championship when the NCAA tournament is held at Notre Dame over spring break. DeCicco's squad could get a real shot in the arm with a sweep on Saturday. Go on out and cheer them on. 




