Sir Obnoxious -page 5 

VOL XX, NO. 66 
Senate passes resolution condemning parietal shift 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
Senior StaffReporter 
A resolution that expressed the Student Senate's dissaproval with an Office of Student Affairs directive was passed by the senate last night. 
Senator Chris Abood informed the senate of a directive that prohibits social gatherings for the week begin­ning Friday Dec. 13, and changes parietals, which usually begin at 2 a.m., to midnight on that Friday and Saturday. 
The resolution states, "The Stu­dent Senate strongly disagrees with the restrictions on parietals and so­cial gatherings during the weekend of December 13th issued by the Office ofStudent Affairs." 
"The types of regulations would be better left to the Hall Council and Hall Staff of individual. dormitories. We don't believe restricting the time in which parietals ends, in par­ticular on the evening of Friday the 13th, will have a significant effect on those studying three days before semester exams." 
A copy of the resolution will be sent to Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs. 
The senate also began the groundwork for a committee that will restructure student govern­ment. Student Body Vice President Duane Lawrence began the discus­sion by suggesting the committtee consist of no more than five people. 
"The bigger the committee the 
harder it will be to get anything 
done," said Lawrence. He suggested 
that ifanyone other than the five on 
the committee wished to contribute 
to restructuring, they be allowed to 
advise the committee. 
K.C. Culum, district two senator, 
said he thinks time is running out for see SENATE, page4 
I 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre ~arne and Saint Mary's 

The joys ofwinter 
Tbese Utab residents use a team effort to overcome tbe snow tbat burled northern Utab and southern Idaho on Sunday. Two feet or m~ of 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10,1985 

Traffic signal to be placed along U.S. 31 
By SHANNON OAKES 
StaffReporr. 
A traffic signal will be installed at the Intersection of U.S. 31 and Douglas Roads and yellow flashing caution lights will be attached to pedestrian signs along this same road as the result of a letter sent to the Indiana Road Department. 
The letter, written by Saint Mary's Director of ·Security Richard Chlebek, expressed concern for the safety of the students who cross the intersection of U.S. 31 ·and the col­lege entrance. 
"They (Indiana) have completed their investigation and analysis of 
U.S. 31. My requests were timely ones which enabled them to take video analysis of the vehicular ftow at U.S. 31," Chlebek said. 
The LaPorte office recommended that an automatic traffic signal be in· stalled at the intersection of U.S. 31 because of the heavy traffic at the north entrance ofSaint Mary's. 
see SIGNAL, page 4 



Academic· honesty sunrey given to students 
By LAURA S. GRONEK 
StaffReporter 
An Academic Honesty Survey was distributed Thursday to on-campus students by the newly-formed Honesty Committee to detertnine whether or not students view cheat­ing as a serious problem at Notre Dame. 
The committee, composed offive faculty and four student members, 

recently  was  approved  by  the  
Academic  Council  to  evaluate  
academic  honesty  on  campus  

through dialogue with faculty and students, and through a look at the honor codes ofother schools. 
"The surveys are an att,empt to determine the nature and extent of acadetnic dishonesty on campus," said Professor David Ricchiute, as­sociate professor of accountancy and member ofthe committee. 
Questions in the one-page survey asked students to identify them­selves by class and by college of study. Earl Baker, a senior engineer­ing major and student mc:mber of the Honesty Committee, anticipates this information to show a "strong correlation existing between the college a student is in and the degree: ofcheating perceived." 
Subsequent questions asked stu.. dents to indicate the ptevalence olf di.IIerent types ofcheating (copying, stealing notebooks, etc.) as well as conditions which they believe con­tribute to academic dishonesty, such as large classrooms or poorly proctored exams. 
The survey went on to solicit opinion on the current procedure for handling :~eademic dishonesty, whereby .students are reported to the departmental honesty commit­tee and then to the dean oftheir col­lege. 
"What's important is to get the results in before finals," said Ric­chiute. "We'd like to be able to compile the information over Christmas Break." If found to be a significant problem, the committee then will do further studies on the issue of academic dishonesty and present their findings and proposals for policy change to the Academic Council meeting in April. 
"We wanted every student to have input in the survey," said Ric• chiute. For this reason, 5,000 sur­veys were distributed on campus through each hall's academic com­missioner, who collected the com­pleted forms yesterday. 
"There are always complaints about a lack of student input," said Earl Baker, a senior engineering major and student member of the comtnittee. "Here's a great chance for students to say where the problem Is, ifthere is one." 


Faculty and administrators react to Accuracy in Academia 
Editors note: This Is tbe second of youth are getting in college by in­however. Of ten students con­"If I felt everything I said was "If you were to ask any (acuity a two-part series examining Ac­vestigating and exposing instances tacted earlier in the week, only being dismissed as lip service ... or member what their !llOSt curacy In Academia, a con­in which students are being taught three ofthem had ever heard ofthe that I couldn't speak my views, I cherished right is, they'd say it's servative group whose aim is to things that are seriously inaccurate organizaton. would call the AlA," he said. "But I the right of academic freedom," employ the belp of students in or highly questionable," according Ofthose three, only one student, think really the best spot to com­said Flanagan, an assistant dean of eliminating professors' biases to the AlA's first report. Jim Adrian, the chairman of Notre bat it (bias) is in the class itself." the College ofArts and Letters. from college classrooms. Today's But most Notre Dame profes­·Dame's College Republic;ms, said The other two students who "What acadetnic freedom means story focuses on Notre Dame's sors, adminlistrators and students were familiar with the AlA both to most ofus Is being free from the reaction to tbe organization. don't see it that way. said they were opposed to the fear ofan institution dictatinlwhat 
"It (the AlA) Is something that Accuracy illl Academia group. you can and cannot say. By MARK PANKOWSKI cannot be a plus for good teaching 
One of those students, Bob Ar· "But if you have a situation AssistantNews Editor in this coun1try because I think the mour, said the AlA "hasn't any where you're afraid of your own 
group Is not itself balanced," said place" in classrooms. "The stu· students than that fear Is as much a Assistant Dean Catherine Mainwaring, an assistant professor dents have chosen to take the violation of acadetnic freedom as Flanagan said the group "smacks olf in the department ofgovernment. class," said Armour, a junior the more traditional fears," she McCarthyism and censorship." "Ifthe issue was really oQe ofac­economics major. said. 
Professor Scott Mainwaring said curacy, you would expect logically "It (the class) is going to be sub­One of the prmary concerns there is a "serious threat that this for it to be concerned with people ject to the professor's opinion and expressed by professors and ad­group will endanger freedom of who are biased on the left and he has the right to go in there and ministrators Is that faculty mem­expression." biased on the right," he said. "But teach the class," he said, adding, bers tnight be reluctant to discuss 
Associate Provost Edward Mal­that's not the case." "He's obviously qualified if the their views in class out of fear of 
loy said the group "seems in­In order to achieve its goal of University Is going to payhim to do being targeted by the AlA. 
terested in squelching discussion." eliminating ll>ias from college clas­he would contact the AlA with a that." "One ofthe problems ofthe AlA, 
All are referring to one group: srooms, the AlA relies on students complaint. Despite the apparent lack ofsup­especially for the junior &culty 
Accuracy in Academia. to contact lthe organization with But even he would ,call the port from Notre Dame students, who don't have tenure, Is that it 
Founded in July of this year, the their complaints about professors. group only "if all other methods several professors and ad­can stifte the way people express admittedly conservative organiza· Whether the Washington-based failed," said Adrian, who received a ministrators said the group themselves," Mainwaring said. tion is seeking to "improve the group will achieve its goal at Notre "standard form letter" fi·om the represents a threat to acadetnic quality of instruction that our Dame remains in question, AlA and its first report. freedom. see AlA, page 4 
------~ ------------------~-----~ --------­
The Observer Tuesday, December 10, 1985-page 2 

In Brief 
Renovations in LaFortune require that the bal­lroom be closed from Dec. 10 to the end ofjanuary. The main lobby In LaFonune will be cl~d from Dec. 16 to the end ofjanuary.-Tbe Observer 
Bullwinkle the Moose is dead. cartoon writer-producer Bill Scott, 65, who lent his voice to the characters Bullwinkle and Dudley Do-Right, died ofa heart attack Friday In his Los Angeles home. Scott was best known as the voice behind several characters from the popular "Rocky and His Friends" television show, ofwhich he was also head writer and co-producer. The show, which starred a flying squinel named Rocky and his moose sidekick, Bullwinkle, began In 1959 and spun off several programs that ran through 1973. The shows are still being rerun. -Tbe Observer 
CIA recruiting protests are picking up steam around the country. At two schools, the University of Michigan and the University of Wisconsin, students are charging police with un­provoked violence. Some Michigan students, arrested at a sit-in, said they were dragged by their hair and beaten by Ann Arbor police. Wisconsin students said campus pollee charged, without warning, protestors using a megaphone to address students waiting for CIA interviews. · Tbe Observer 
Six education students at Saint Mary's recently were initiated into the Nonhero Indiana Chapter of Pi Lambda Theta, a national education honor and professional association. Seniors Ellen Brown, Katharine Matthews and Anne McNeil, and juniors Undajoerger, Laura Milligan and Mary Ann Van Tassel were Initiated In ceremonies held Nov. 16. Student membership is awarded on the basis of superior scholastic achievement and high potential for professional leadership. · Tbe Observer 
The co-founders of the doctors' organization that won this year's Nobel Peace Prize joined in emergency treatment to help a Soviet journalist who suffered a heart attack at their news conference yesterday. "You have witnessed a tragic event," Dr. Yev­geny Chazov of the Soviet Union told reponers after more than half an hour of heart massage and other rescue efforts on the floor of a hotel conference room. He and Dr. Bernard Lown, American co­founder of the International Physicians for Prevention of Nuclear War, are heart specialists. Officials at Oslo's Rikshospltalet said the journalist, Lev Novlkov ofSoviet television, was alive and "the situa­tion is now stable." -AP 

Of Interest 
Shenanigans, Notre Dame's singing and dancing en­semble will perform Its Christmas concen tonight at 8 In Was­hington Hall. -Tbe Observer 
Price Waterhouse senior partnerJoseph Conner will discuss key issues of the DingelJ Committee Hearings today at 5:45 
p.m. in Room 122 of Hayes-Healy. The discussion Is sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi and the Notre Dame Accounting Association. All stu­dents are encouraged to attend. -Tbe Observer 
Noontalk, featuring Stephen Spiro, chief curator of the Snite Museum of An on the topic of French Master Drawings, will take place today from 12:10 to 12:55 In the Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery ofthe Snite Museum ofAn. Admission Is free. -
Tbe Observer 


Weather 
Precipitation -but no one knows 
whether it will be rain, snow or something In between. An 80 percent chance ofsnow or rain today and tonight. High In the upper 30s. Low in the middle 30s. A 60 percent chance of rain or snow tomorrow. High in the middle to upper 30s.-AP 




Ihe Obseaer_----==­

Design Editor.,................. Tracy Schlndele Vlt!Wpolnt Copy Edltor..........Sue Dunbar D~lgn Aulstant ........................ Tom Small Vlt!Wpolnt Layout.......... Melinda Murphy Slotman ...................................... l..arry Burke FeatutYS Copy Editor.......... Eric &rgamo Layout Staff............................... ROO Luxem FeatutYS Loyout...................... Karen Webb TyJ»St!tters...................... Suzanne Hammer ND Day Editor...................... Ray Szafranslti 
Becky Gunderman SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Typlst.......................................... CoUeen Foy Ad Design ......................... Mary C. Creadon Nt!WS Editor .............................Jane Kravcil< Sharon Emmlte Copy Editor................................ Miriam Hill Photographer ..................... Paul Pahoresky Sports Copy Editor .......... Mike Szymansl<l 
The O!Mtrvrr (liSPS W9 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and ''acation pc."riods. lbc O~r is publisMd by tM studentsofthe llniversity of Nocre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 pc."r year ( llO pc.'f semester) by writing The Obacner, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 
~6~~6. 
lbc O!Mtrvrr is a member of lbe Aaeoclatcd Pftu. All reproduction rights are revrved 

Co.verage of bad news is optimistic 
What is news, and what Is not? The pages of America's newspapers, the sights and Joe sounds broadcast on the television and the emphasis in 
Murphy
the multitude of magazines minor a restless world of­ten at war with itself. 

Again and again, news rises out of the ashe.s of the human struggle for land, power and, above all, wealth. Viewpoint Editor The wrestling for such vices produces a plethora of 


news. 
The job, meaning the responsibility and the duty, of 
journalists calls upon them to inform their fellow 
creatures ofthis struggle, with its winners and losers, its 
shaken and shattered, its dominant and determined. 
The news mostly reflects the -constant battle taking 
place In our neighborhoods, our societies and our 
world. To many, the news means the negative, the 
tragic and the sad noted forever in the records of our 
race. 
The news, though, is the significant and the excep­tion, not the rule. As james Bogart said, "When a dog bites a man, that is not news, because it happens so often. But if a man bites a dog, that 
is news." 
So I suggest negative news may not be a Pandora's box in print, but l!'ather a sign for optimism. Aos long as wars, hijackings, murders, mb­beries and other vices (nake the news, then they remain the exception. 
If, because of increased frequency, journalists no longer cover these events, then the days of the human struggle are numbered. We 
will lose all, and so all lose. For now, more people are at peace, than at war; more are fed, than famished; more love, than hate. Ifone reads between the lines, the ultimate irony may well be bad news is really good news. The small acts of ki1ndness, the bonds which tie families and friends, the joys ofwork and play, the con­tinual coexistence ofcountries may not appear In print or on the airwaves as often as the bad news; however, they are real and occm· every day at every moment. These acts are the silent testaments of the good in men and of their civilizations. Funher, out of the rubble of tragic news have come acts of human courage. When on jan. 13, 1982, an Air Florida jet smashed into a bridge over the Potomac River, one of the survivors, clinging to parts of the wreckage in the icy water, refused to grab onto the life ring dropped by rescuers. Instead, repeatedly he passed the ring to the othell' survivors. He, though still anonymous, willingly gave his life. The news brought 

the world the tragedy and the triumph. 
Tragic news can change the course of history, as did the bombing of Pearl Harbor. And it can even bring out the best in people as It did young Anne Frank, who in hiding heard ofthe war's horrors, bw wrote, "In spite of everything I still believe that people are really good at heart." 
The coverage of natural disasters, such as the Mexican earthquakes and the famine in Africa, have created an outpouring of assistance from all over the 
world. 
So you see, do not inter­pret the news as being all bad or all good. It is, as it should be, the truth. 
journalism does not in· volve making news, but merely reporting it · the good and the bad. The facts speak for themselves. 
Ultimately, all men write for the same reason. They have faith that the voice of truth will be heard and will make a difference. The very act of writing is an act of hope. 
It has been argued the ' slope of mankind's history is 

regress. Lacking sufficient wisdom, mankind's innovations only have increased the probability oftotal destruction. 
Mankind may have the means, but it lacks a purpose. The writer's job is to give mankind insight into that purpose -a truth, a fact, a piece of information · man lacks. 
William Faulkner refused to accept the end of man. He held faith that man would prevail. 
Ofthe writer, Faulkner declared, "It is his privilege to help man endure by lifting his heart, by reminding him of the courage and honor and hope and pride and com­passion and pity and sacrifice which has been the glory of the past." 
As Christmas and the new year approach, I thought it only appropriate to recall Faulkner's message of hope, to state what should be understood, though perhaps not always said: It's a wonderful life despite its injustices, its inadequacies and its endless struggle. 
Save abundle on Apple's



holidaypackage. 
This year. we've put together acomputer system that Imake anyone's Christmas stockings roll up and down. But we've also put it together for a price that will hlow your socks off. 
Because the MacintoshTM personal computer let~ you work f<L~ter, smarter and more creatively. The Apple® Extemal Disk Drive gives you the power to store and access infonnation faster. And the lmageWriter™ printer lets you print out crisp copies of your work. Lastly, there's the Macintosh carrying case. W11ich let~ you take your Macintosh system wherever your work takes you. 
So huy yourself a Macintosh system for Christmas. Even if it is with your parent< money. 
© 1981 Apple CompUier,lnc. Apple and the Apple logo are registered rrademark1 ofApple Computer, Inc. ltnal(t!IM'iter IS a trademark ofApple Computt•r.lnc Macirur~lt IS a rradcmark of Mclntc6h Laborntory, Inc. and is heing used wi~1 i~ express pennission. 

-~~--------------------------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, December 10, 1985-page 3 
Saint Mary's commences its search for next year's resident assistants 
By MARILYN BENCHIK 
Staf!Wrlter 
Not everyone is cut out to be a resident assistant, and Susan Glore, Le Mans Hall resident director, knows this fact well. 
Glore is In charge of the resident assistant selection process this year at Saint Mary's. 
The first information session for those interested in applying for resi­dent assistant will held tonight at 
7:30 
in the Regina North Lounge. There will be two other information sessions, covering the same material, on January 15 and 20 at 

7:30 
p.m. Applicants need only at­tend one session. The application and three recom­mendations are due Feb. 7. 


"At the information session each applicant receives a packet which explains that she needs three references. After the applications are sent in, we go into the interview­ingprocess," said Glore. 
According to Glore, the process for applying for resident assistant re­quires three interviews. The first is a group session interview on Feb. 16. This interview involves 60 people, and the group partakes in several types of activities. These activities will introduce many ofthe problems that resident assistants face. 
In the second interview, a residence hall director and a resi­dent assistant interview the ap­plicant. The final interview is between four present resident assis­tants and the applicant. These inter­views will be held from Feb. 16 to March 2. 

"We try to keep the process as fair and equitable as possible. We use the same criteria to evaluate each in­terviewee," Glore stated. 
Between March 3 and 4 the hall directors and Director of Residence Life Pat Rissmeyer decide who will be hired for the positions. On March 6, the resident assistants are notified of their new posts. 
The academic requirement for resident assistants is a cumulative grade point average of 2.5, Glore said. Other requirements include leadership, dependability, and good judgment. 
Each resident assistant acts as a liaison between the residents and the administration while providing initiative and leadership in develop­ing opportunities for the overall growth ofthe residents, Glore said. 
"There are 48 resident assistants 
at Saint Mary's this year. 19 live in 
LeMans Hall, 8 in Regina Hall, 8 in 
McCandless Hall, 11 in Holy Cross 
Hall, and 2 in Augusta Hall," said 
Glore. 
Glore said last year there were 65 
applicants and 31 were hired. Six al­
ternates are selected every year. 
This year, Glore said she expects about 60 applicants, but added she is not sure of how many positions ac­tually will be available. "The number of open positions depends upon the 

Coming to work for DH&S was a decision I felt good about, right from the start. 
The growth opportunities, exposure to a lot of different business environ­ments: all outstanding, better than my original expectations. 
At DH&S we have always been strong on the quality of our people. And because good people expect your best, you look for every opportunity to give it. 
On top of that, DH&S has always been in the forefront of technical changes within the profession-sampling tech­niques, new computer modeling. 
But most important, we've recognized that the whole accounting profession is a changing environment. 
number ofjuniorswho re-apply. The majority return for a second year," said Glore. 
"The juniors who come back usually receive the hall and the room that they want. But the hall directors, director of residence life and present resident assistants reserve the right to place the resi­dent assistant where she is best suited," Glore said. 
Glore said no dorm is more popular than the others for resident assistants. "It depends on what you want to work with. Some people would rather work with a small staff or underclassmen. In that case, the applicant would choose Regina Hall or McCandless Halll. Others have favorite places or would like to work with a certain resident director," Glore stated. 
Glore also said 90 to 95 percent of the resident assistants receive what they want in terms of dorm selec­tion. "The interviewers consider where the applicant-s want to be, and we place people in relation t:o where we think they will be able to per­form In the best possible manner with the residen~ and the rest ofthe staff," Glore explained. 
"People should apply fo1r a posi­tio.n to be a resident assistant be­cause they want the job of the resident assistant. The building that they happen to end up in isasideline· of the job," said Glore. 
In my mind there Is no doubt. If I had It to do all over again, I'd make the same decision. 
Marc C Woodward Manager, DH&S, Kansas City, MO BBA, 1979, Notre Dame 
It's not anumbers game; it's apeople profession. It's people, working within atotal business environment. 
We're always working as a team directly with clients to help them solve their problems. We provide input and advice on tax matters, operations sys­tems, accounting questions-things that really impaCt the bottom line. 
There's no question. It's an outstanding business career. 
Deloitte 


Haskins+Sells 
USA 

PSA waiting to accept student suggestions 
By CHRIS SKORCZ the PSA, the ideas get to student SeniorStaffReporter government which can deal more directly with the administration. 
In an experimental move under-"The administration doesn't at-taken to producegreater and more ways listen too seriously to in­immediate results from students' dividuals' ideas. However, if we ideas, student government has can provide them with actual created the ProgressiveStudentAI-results of surveys, we feel that we Hance. can increase our strength and 
PSA is designed primarily to get legitimacy. In this respect the PSA students' ideas directly into the can serve as a referendum mec­hands ofthose members ofthe stu-hanism," he said. dent government and the ad-Millen further enumerated the ministration who are able to act benefits of the PSA by suggesting upon those ideas deemed most that it is not an elected position or ·favorable to the campus as a whole, a small, elite group. "It is partofthe according to student government whole campus meaning that every Executive Coordinator Mike Mil-student is a part ofit. 
len. 

"There is no way for ideas to go from the creators of them to the student government which is able to follow up on them," said Millen. "We want these ideas to get into the hands of people who are wil­ling to work to get them fulfilled. A lot ofstudents have ideas but don't have the time or the inclination to follow up on them." 
Essentially, the project is a gras­sroots attempt to generate ideas which will benefit all 6,500 campus residents, said Millen. The ideas originate with individual stu­dents who turn in the ideas to their respective section representatives. The section reps then give the ideas to their dorm's representative, who chooses the best three ideas which are then passed along to the PSA director. Millen currently acts as PSA direc­tor. 
Operating along the same lines as Ombudsman, the PSA, said Mil­len, is designed for those students who don't have time to attend the periodlcal Obud "gripe nights." 
"I certainly approve of Obud, but in general the students who at­tend the gripe nights are those who are the type who are able to get things done themselves. With 
Anti-Apartheid Fact of the Week In June 1983 the Surplus People Project reported that since 1960 there had been 3.5 million forced removals of Blacks from White areas. 
Eucharist is our Gift 

Come Experience It 
Contact: Brother Robert Zeegers s.s.s. Vocation Coordinator 1335 West Harrison Street Chicago, Illinois 60607 (312) 243-7400 
~The Blessed Sacrament FatheB and llrot'*­
"It takes the pressure off in­dividual students to go through the entire maze of reps, other student government ofliclals, ad­ministrators, etc. It gives the 240 section leaders around campus more authority and is capable of producingan enormous number of ideas. 
"Even if only 1 0 percent of the student body responds, that provides us with over 60o ideas. If only a fourth of those are worth considering, we will still have about 150 ideas. Certainly we will hav~ to weed out the more ridiculous ones and the ones which would cost to much to enact, but we are veryoptimistic in general about the quality of the ideas we will receive." 
After each week-long idea cam­paign, of which Millen hopes to run about three per semester, the PSA will examine the best ideas and compile the results. Millen ex­pects to produce a newsletter showing the results ofpast ideas to encourage continued particlpa­tion. The current campaign lasts through tomorrow. 
"Basically, the PSA gives stu­
dents the opportunity to get in­
volved with their own ideas, " he 
said. 
Schedules for Christmas announced 
1be residence halls will be closed 
between the fall and spring 
semesters, according to Evelyn 
Reinebold, director of student 
residences. 
Because final exams will be held 
on Friday, Dec. 20, the residence 
halls will be closed at S p.m. Satur­
day, Dec. 21. They will reopen at 
noon Sunday, Jan. 12. 
All outside doors will be per­
manently secured and students will 
not be permitted to reside in the 
dormsbetween the two above dates. 
This is done to protect the property 
of the students in their absence, 
Reinebold said. 
The South Dining Hall will close 
after the dinner meal on Thursday, 
Dec. 19. The North Dining Hall will 
be open to all contract students 
through dinner on Friday, Dec. 20, 
and will close after that meal. 
Both dining halls will reopen on Monday, Jan. 13, for the evening meal. The pay cafeteria in the South Dining Hall will be closed after the evening meal on Sunday, Dec. 22, and will reopenJan. 2 for breakfast. 
Registration is on Tuesday, Jan. 14, and classes begin Wednesday, Jan. IS. 
How you live
•=
may save your life. 


The Observer Tuesday, December 1 0, 1985 -page 4 

The Oboaver/Paul Pobornky

Study stacks library. Students wtllface manyformidable stacks Looking for a book? Well It mlgbt be found of books like tbese as they bead into finals next 
among these stacks on tbe second floor of the week. 
Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
a committee. "When we come back 
in January we will have at most a 
month. There's no way a committee 
can draft something, bring it before 
the senate, and then have it ap­
proved by the senate and (Hall Presi­
dents' Council)in a month," he said. 
Culum said senate members 
should think about restructuring 
over Christmas break and then dis-

Signal 
continuedfrom page 1 
Chlebek said that according to James Schmidt of the LaPorte office, nothing can be done this fiscal year. AfterJuly 1, 1986, which is the 1987 fiscal year, insullation will take place. 
Chlebek said no specific time was 
given for the Installation of the traf­
fic lights. He added, however, he 
hopes to see the lights installed for 
the fllll because traffic light installa­
tion is considered priority work by 
the road department. 
1be road will be widened and 
telephone poles will be moved so 
there will be room for the signal. 
Chlebek said installation probably 
will have to wait until the ground is 
thawed in the spring. 
AlA 
continued/rom page 1 
1be decision on whether a 
faculty member is granted tenure 
would not be affected if the AlA 
were to cite that filculty member In 
one of Its reports, said Aa8oclate 
Provost SisterJohn Miriam Jones. 
"Tenure is based on an in­
dividual's scholarly research and 
pubUcation, on the respect of his 
coUeasues, and on his ability to 
convey and stimulate knowledge," 
Jones said 
If the AlA were to target 
someone at Notre Dame, Jones 
said the University "would support 
his academic freedom." 
"It's his classroom and I expect 
we'd support him," she said, ad­
ding. "That doesn't mean we 
necessarily would agree with his 
views, but we would support his 
rights." 
Although several professors said 
they were concerned the AlA 
might Intimidate some oftheir col­
leagues, none of those contacted 
said they personaUy felt any threat 
from the group. 
"It's not 80if18 to bother me," said J. Robert Wep, an UIIOCiate professor in the history depart· ment. 
"I resent it so much that I might be more inclined to take a position that this right-wing organization doesn't like even though Iconsider myself moderate or middle of the road," he added. 
cuss it at the senate's first meeting next semester. "I think what we should do is have acommittee get an idea for the first week backand put It before the senate so we canstart has­hing It out." 
Elections for next year's student government must take place by March 9. 
Off-campus Senator Jim Hagan disagreed with Culum. "Wouldn't it be quicker to have a small, streamlined structure get it out of the way and then hash It out in the 
"lbe pedestrian light will im­prove safety filctors for pedestrians and vehicles by slowing down the traffic," said Chlebek. 
"We are going to enter into a con­tractual agreement with the state of Indiana for the pursuit, installation and maintenance of yeUow flashing caution lights which will be affixed to pedestrian crossing signs at the coUege's expense," said Chlebek. 
Chlebek said he hopes the lights will function at night during the academic year, but added that the decision on the hours of operation for the lights rests with the state. 
"HopefuUy this will Improve the safety factor for the students cross­Ing at U.S. 31 so we don't have a recurrence of the trafJedy the Hur­ley family suffered this year," Chlebek said 
ALLIED SHIPPING 
Air& UPS 219-277-7616 
We pack and Ship HOURS: 1 -7 Mon-Fri 
10 a.m. -4 Sat 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS SR23 

Cash 
•
tn... 
The Observer is accepting applications for Adver­tising Design Manager. call Mary Carol Creadon 
at 239-5303. 
...onyour artistic talent 
senate senate?" Hagan asked. 
The senate eventually decided on a seven-man committee with faculty, administrative and student input. 
In other senate business, a resolu­tion that would have changed the structure ofthe student government budget committee was defeated. The resolution would ltlave added the student body president and senior class president to the com­mittee, while eliminating the off­campus senator. 
Chtebek was referring to the early morning hit-and-run accident on 
U.S. 31 on Sept. 7 which left Notre Dame freshman Kevin Hurley with serious head and internal injuries. 
Chlebek's request for a strobe light at U.S. 31 and the entrance to Saint Mary's was denied because the road department does not believe the Intersection is sufficiently dan­gerous. His request for additional lighting. along U.S. 31 also was denied. The lighting along the main entrance ofthe collegeand at U.S. 31 and Douglas was seen to be ade­quate by the road department. 
Chlebek said he is happy with the results although he is disappointed at not gettlnf!: the additional street lighting for U.S. 31. 
Hon IMidng tull-ttme atarr_ lodging, Si5Cit'monfh, health 
coverage. Public lru-t gioup 
dneloplng oou,... on non­
Yiolence a~ operating lllattonal 
eoatmon on Televluon VIolence 
national headquarters. In Cham­
paign next to Unlversltf 111111011. 
Retearch, wrtllng, office work, 
monitoring entertainment. One 
year commitment. 

'------2i7-3&1-i 
ACCURACY 
If you've got ft, wewantyoul The Obsenfer needs c:opy editors for next semester. 
Interested? Stop by the Observer office, third floor, LaFortune, for an application. 
The Oblerver 239-5303 



OPEC decision could decrease price of oil 
GENEVA-OPEC vowed yesterday to fight Britain and other indepen­dent oil· producers for a "fair share" of world oil sales, opening the way for freer competition that analysts said will mean lower prices. 
The 13 ministers from the Or­ganization of Petroleum Exporting Countries stopped short offormally abandoning their 4-year-old strategy of trying to keep prices high by al­lowing their production to fllll. 
But sources said they had reached 
an understanding that, with prices 
likely to fllll anyway, their best al­
ternative was to use price competi­
tion to stop the costly decline In 
their share ofworld oil sales. 
The sources, who spoke on condi­tion they not be identified, said the ministers were unwilling to openly declare a final break with their cur­rent policy because they feared it would accelerate a drop in prices. 
The meeting's outcome, after three days ofWks, triggered a "great panic" in the oil markets in early trading, said Paul McDonald, senior oil analyst at the London office ofthe 
U.S. investment firm Shearson Leh­man Brothers Inc. 
The price on the open market for North Sea 'Brent crude slumped by 95 cents a barrel to 126 shortly after the OPEC meeting broke up, he said. It then stabilized as OPEC ministers made comments to reporters that In­dicated they would try to avoid a price war. 
On the New York Mercantile Ex­change, futures prices nosedlved. Contracts for January delivery opened trading at 127.75 a barrel, down a dollar from Friday's close. 
The price rebounded briefly, then 
slipped to 127.5 7 in early afternoon. 
"I am not intending to declare a 
price war," said Arturo Hernandez 
Grisanti, the oil minister of 
Venezuela and newly elected chair· 
man ofOPEC. 
He also said, however, that a big 
drop in prices was possible and that 
a new OPEC committee would 
study the implications of tougher 
price competition between OPEC 
and independent producers. 
Pressed to say what he considered 
OPEC's fair share of the world 
market, Grisanti said it should be 
between OPEC's widely flouted 
production ceilingof 16 million bar­
rels a day and its current actual out­
put, estimated to be about 18 
million barrels daily. 
The official declaration issued at the close of OPEC's meeting made no specific mention of either the production ceiling, which was set in October 1984, or the group's official base price of 128 a barrel. 
When asked if these agreements remained in force, Grisanti said only, "The conference reaffirmed all its previous resolutions." 
The OPEC joint statement, citing "the persistently declining trend of OPEC production," said the mini­sters had decided to "secure and defend for OPEC a fair share in the world oil market consistent with the necessary income for member countries' development." 
OPEC has seen Its share of the world oil market drop from about two-thirds In the late 1970s to the current level ofabout one-third. 

--FreeBaireuts,-­
Our styled haircuts are only $6.00 and now we'll give you a card that entitles you to every 5th haircut free 
Call or walk on over­
.--------------------__,
The Varsity Shop

Open6days Edison Rd. at St Rd 23
Evenings until 7:30 
2n-oos7 



Santa Claus is corning to town 
(Do him a favor aad 
atv• h._ a taal) 

t\ ~~ nw~ .HAWAfM 
or-~ sun tonnrq sam 
J.M.S. PLAZA 

latro Pkg. Spec. $21.95 
All this party animal wants {or Christmas is ajarofDippity-Do 
Merry Christmas 
Rich! 
P.S. Love your Iough! 

Accent 
Tuesday, December 10, 1985 -page 5 
Sir Obnoxious rocks and rocks 
until he drops 
MARC RAMIREZ 
features guest writer 
A 
very misinformed collection of you little rugrats are, for one ridiculous reason or another, ad­herents to the ancient cliche that one cannot "go home again." Maybe you are acquainted with some poor fool who tried to return home and couldn't; or perhaps it was you who miserably failed to make the trip home. 
Then there is undoubtedly the National Enquirer crowd ofmorons who believe everything that is thrown at them -those who are most likely to vote for Ed McMahon should he ever decide to run for president. 
These people believed the En­quirer story which alleged that Sir Obnoxious' long-running affair with Phoebe Cates was coming to a painful, emotional halt. This simply is not true. Cenainly Sir Obnoxious lusts after Phoebe with abandon; however, he has never allowed her even the pleasure ofa date. 
But Sir Obnoxious digresses. 
Sir Obnoxious has proven time and time again that many old cliches are merely old wives' tales. Not only has Sir Obnoxious gone home again, but he has also gotten there from here, been in two places at once, and kept a good man down. And in case you're wonder­ing, yes, Sir Obnoxious plans to take it with him, ifand when it is all 
over. 
The point ofall this, ofcourse, is to make it ever so clear to you little vagrants that Sir Obnoxiousbas once again gone home. Obviously, not rain, not sleet, not even snow could keep Sir Obnoxious away from the territory he used to rule without mercy. 
And remember: ifit were not for yours truly, Miss Manners would still be making her weekly ap­pearances in your student newspaper. 
For this you owe Sir Obnoxious your deepest gratitude. 
But let us not dabble in cliches and manners all column long. Let's ·talk videos. 
That's right, videos. Silly theatrics set to music. Silly music set to theatrics. Sir Obnoxious has followed the music scene for many moons, but he never thought he would witness the day when such rudeness would pervade the ordi­nary household on such a grand scale. 
In the past, it has behooved Sir Obnoxious to rock his socks off, disco all night long, sway to the music, and trip the light fantastic. 
Sir Obnoxious has funked out; he has gotten down. He has felt the beat and he has freaked out. He has contracted night fever and he has shaken his booty. 
There are times when Sir Ob­noxious thought he might as well jump. He has banged his head; he has danced in the streets. And he 
has burned! down the house. 
So as you can see, Sir Obnoxious 
has been shakin' his groove thang 
for some time now. And, my brot­
hers and sisters in tastelessness, it 
should come as no surprise to you 
that Sir Obnoxious derives the 
greatest of pleasures in knowing 
that the older generation continues 
to be shocked and disgusted with 
the music oftoday. 
Not a novel concept, ofcourse ­Elvis Presley himselfwas spoiling parents' appetites even before Sir Obnoxious was running around in plastic see-through diapers. The difference is, now it's visual. 
Sir Obnoxious is not talking 
about the wimpy productions 
churned out by the likes ofRay 
Parker,jr., Wham!, and Phil Collins. 
Sir Obnoxious cenainly has no 
desire to wake anyone up before he 
is gone-gone, and ifthere's a sappier 
video around than REO 
Dumptruck's "I Can't Fight This 
Feeling," Sir Obnoxious would 
rather remain ignorant ofits exis­
tence. 
What Sir Obnoxiousdoes ap­prove ofis the rude-for-rude's-sake classics produced by Twisted Sister and Quiet Riot. Sir Obnoxious thoroughly enjoyed the frenzied gyrations ofthe redhead in Mick 
Jagger's "She Was Hot." He was head over heels with the young 
vixen in the Stray Cats' "Sexy and 
17." And he never misses an 
episode ofthe best outrage ofall, 
"Solid Gold." 
These are examples ofsexploita­tion at its finest, and Sir Obnoxious' only regret is that young innocent children can see for free what Sir Obnoxious used to have to pay to see atmany a sleazy nightclub across this crumbling nation of ours. 
So here's a nifty Christmas idea, kids: on Christmas Eve, grab the old folks and prop yourselves down in front ofthe Magna vox. Tie your parents down ifyou must. Invite the neighbors (and their young, in­nocent children). And turn on the MTV. 
Wait awhile and ZZ Top's "Legs" will give everyone a great family conversation piece. Grandma is sure to love the motorcycle choreographies in the Maryjane Girls' "In My House." And surely you can cajole Aunt Nadine into turning over a new leafand model­ing herselfafter sultry, seductive, no-longer-so-despicably­wholesome Olivia Newton-john. 
It's all great fun, Sir Obnoxious 
assures you. Sir Obnoxious has 
been doing it every holiday season. 
So excuse me, merry gentlemen ­Sir Obnoxious has a plush date set up for tonight. Madonna is on her way over, prepared to dress Sir Obnoxious up with her late. 
It would be appreciated ifTipper Gore would lay off Sir Obnoxious' blue suede shoes. 

You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 

'JJua11 Domer' at ND 
GERRY SCIMECA 
features s1raffwriter 
W 
hen Hispanic students come 
to the United States, they 
usually decide to :study on either 
the East or West coast because of 
the cosmopolitan atmosphere and 
the access to culture. But for a 
school in the Midwest, Notre Dame 
has attracted a fair share ofHispanic 
students who could have chosen to 
attend almost any school in 
America. For these people:, Notre 
Dame has a special appeal which is 
imponant to them and to their 
future. 
"just call me 'juan Domer'," 
smiles senior William 'Beclee' 
Townsend ofGuaynabo, Pueno 
Rico. " My dad went here and we 
always rooted for the basketball and 
football teams while I wa.'l growing 
up." 
While he still considered other 
schools in America, he was con­
vinced to come to Notre Dame 
during his visitation. "I was 
impressed with the beauty ofthe 
campus as well as the good science 
program here. But when I found out 
they do your laun.dry for you, I 
couldn't believe it. That's when I 
had my dad cancel the interview 
with M.I.T.." 
For one Spanish student, Notre 
Dame is more than just laundry."I 
love it here," says Lucas Mata of 
Madrid Spain. " I wanted to go to 
college in America because the 
schools are better, otherwise, I 
would have had to attend a state 
college in Madrid." 
Ofcourse, in leaving the 
homeland, some adjustments to life 
at Notre Dame had to be made. "I 
never had to deal with snow 
before,"mentions Beelee," I had to 
go shopping for sweaters and 
longjohns, which was different. I 
also realized you could not go to 
the bars unless you were 21, and 
that was hard to accept at first." 
" I was really surprised at how 
differently people act towards 
alcohol," adds Lucas."It seems that 
people here only drink to get 
drunk, which would be very ir­
responsible in Spain. There we have 
no drinking age, so we learn early 
not to drink too much." 
"But other than that, America 
hasn't really surprised me. The 
people are really nice and don't treat me as a foreigner, I'm just another guy." says Lucas. 

"I really like the guys here and have made some great friends," says Beelee. "But I was a little naive my freshman year, and at my first SYR some ofthe guys here convinced me that it was tradition to give the girl a gord. It got a little embarass­ing when everyone was pinning on flowers and all I could do. was hand my date a large, ugly vegetable." 
Once here,though, life at Notre Dame is fairly routine. Ana Esteve, a senior from Barcelona, didn't have any trouble adjusting because she's spent halfofher life in Spain and halfin the United States. "There's not too much Spanish culture to be seen out in South Bend, although that 'Touchdownjesus' mosaic on the library looks somewhat Spanish." 
"I have tried to bring a few Spanish things to campus, but with little luck. For instance, I suggested a 'running ofthe bulls' for An Tostal, but they thought that was dan­gerous. I think they were afraid windows in Dillon and Cavanaugh would get broken." Esteve said. 
Lucas found Notre Dame life: exactly what he was looking for. " I think it is very imponant to have great friends, get a good education and be able to practice your religion at college, and at Notre Dame you can do all ofthis." 
"I never had a chance to fence 
before I came here," says Beelee," 
and now I'm on the fencing team. 
I'm really glad to have had the op­
ponunity to do this." 
So what does the future hold 
concerning careers and returning 
back home? "I would like to return 
to Pueno Rico and be an ophthal­
mologist in Sanjuan," says 
Beelee."And ifI don't get into med 
school, I'll just be a roadie for julio 
Iglesias." 
"I'm not sure what I will do after 
this year," says Lucas. "This is a very 
expensive school, but I was lucky 
and had someone sponsor me for 
my first two years. Hopefully I can 
stay to graduate, but I don't know 
how l'JD going to pay for it. I will 
just hope for the best, and maybe 
buy a few lottery tickets." 
"But I would like to find a job 
where I could somehow be in­
volved in trade between the two 
countries. I like America and I also 
have nine brothers and sisters in . Spain, so that would be good for 
me." 
"I would like to be involved 
culturally between America and 
Spain," says Ana. "I've heard that the 
U.S. wants to use a space shuttle and study the effect outer space has on dancers. I have danced Flamenco before, and ifI were to be chosen for this, it would be a dream come true." 

'Misfits' provide goofy fun 
and calls his depanment "Freaks 'R' Us." 
The actionof"Misfits ofSciencr" is strictly tounge-in-cheek, the more corny the story the better. You just can't take this show seriously, ifyou do all the fun goes out ofit. And the actors on the screen look as ifthey're having fun doing this galavanting about fight­ing crime. Manin snaps one-liners at every opportunity. One example; Billy is with a bionic man he helped to create who has had one ofhis artificial hands blown off. Billy says, "Looks like you need a hand there with your arm." 
I know, I know, "Misfits of Science" is a goofy and unonhodox adventure series, but it is good natured fun. I have this weak spot in my critical soul for shows that have giant rutabegas threatening the West Coast, so I enjoy the Misfits. I have a feeling that these "Misfits of Science" might just fit in on the television schedule. 
E~C M. BERGAMO 
features copy edttor 
A 
gigantic metor has slammed into the hills above Hollywood, releasing a green slime that is en-• gulfing everything in its path. Panic 
,------31..... Television 
Misfits of Science 

• 
and chaos are rampant. The armed 
forces are powerless to stop it. '111e 
govenor decides that he has only 
one option left. He calls lfor the 
"Misfits ofScience." 
Who, or more exactly, what ar<e the "Misfits ofScience?" 
Simply put, "Misfits ofScience" is a strange variation on the A-Team. They fight crime, but don't use ordinary guns and fists. 'What they use is, well, extraordinary to say the least. And while 1the A-Team travc:ls to where the trouble is in their black van, the Misfits ofScience get to where they are going in a Mr. Softee truck. 


The Misfits are three individuals with weird abilities that help them ~ fight whatever gets in their way. There isJohnny B. (Mark Thomas Miller), a rock singer who got zapped by an amplifier and now has the power to shoot bolts of electricity. Pretty Gloria ( Counney Cox, the girl who danced with Bruce Springsteen in the "Dancing in the Dark" video) can move ob­jects by thinking. And there is Dr. Elvin "El" Lincoln (Kevin Peter Hall) who can shrink from his 7'4" height to the size ofa Ken doll. It is Dr. Billy Hayes (Dean Paul Manin), a scientist with a corporation called Humandyne, who molds them into HIT, shon for Human Investigation Team. Billy Hayes is son ofa misfit himself. Not many scientists keep their pizza warm in an incubator 

View~_o_i_n_t________
r_ue-sd-ay_.n_ec-em-b-er-10_. 1-98-5 _pa-ge-6 
Professor Rigby 
on dinosaur extinction 

It Is a well-known phenomenon that cblldrrm often tend to cboose professions slmlllar to (and perhaps tbe same as) tbelr parents'. Or, a favorite uncle wbo happens to be a doctorprovides tbe role modelfor a stu· dent deciding to punuemedicine. Some may even belp out In tbelr fatber's business during Cbrlstmas time orsummen (stocking shelves, driving a truck, etc.) and decide to punue tbe study oftbe business In tbelr un­dergraduate years. 
Keltb Rigby's fatber was a geologist, In fact, cbatrman t~nd professor of Geology at Brigbam Young University. He learned tbe business flnt band and ln-deptb from bls dad; In as mucb as bts fatber was legally blind, since age seven be was bts fatber's "eyes" wben Itcame to tbepracticalmatterof Identifying rocks, minerals, fossils, land forms and so on. 
More officially, after completing bls Pb.D. tn geology at Columbia University and ac­quiring valuable f~ld experience working for tbe DepartmentoftbeInterior (Bureau of Land Management) In New Mexico, be came to Notre Dame In 1982 where be ts well· known for bts freshman coune, "Principles
r of Geology." Hts recent discoveries of 
r 
dinosaur fossils In tbe Hell's Creek Forma­
r 
Non of eastern Montana have created a
r 
sensation In geological circles. Here, be tells
r 
wby.
r 
(Professor jobn Kozak ts assistant dNn of
r 
tbe College ofScience and Instructor In tbe
r 
coune, Concepts ofModern Science.) 
ProfessorJohn Kozak 
something different 
have been investigating the Cretaceous/Tertaicy boundary and the phenomenal biological changes that are as­sociated with this boundary. This particular boundary is one of the more pronounced in the geological record and across it many changes occur. Dinosaurs, ammonite cep· halopods, rudistid clams and a number of marine one-celled organisms become extinct at or near the boundary. New forms evolve rapidly after the extinction and these forms give rise to most of the groups of organisms that populate today's world. It is therefore most important to understand the S~:t of cir· cumstances surrounding their roots and the processes governing their diversification. 
I have concentrated my efforts in studying the changes on land during this critical period oftime. This is the time ofdinosaur extinction and the beginning of the radiation of mam· mals. There are few places in the world where rock of the appropriate age is preserved. One ofthese places in the Hell Creek Formation of Montana and surrounding states and provinces of Canada. The Hell Creek Forma· lion and younger, overlying Tullock Forma· lion preserves the record of change in terrestial communities from those dominated by dinosaurs to those dominated by mammals. Istudy the evolution, one ofthe fastest in all of recorded geologic time, of mammals and ot· her associated vertebrates. 
Each year we take a number of Notre Dame students to the field where they help us in col· lecting fossils, conducting basic geologic studies and searching for new localities. The 
Doonesbury 
uJ<En-rMJM. 
MY tiJIICr.£ LIFE 
t~ WANTEIJ70 UVE/N~T­
TIW! f¥'-CIJIRr£ I UKE. IT! 
preliminary results ofthese studies have been 
most enlightening. 
A recent well-accepted theory to explain 
the extinctioo ofso many groups oforganisms 
at the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary has been 
proposed by Walter Alverez (U.C. Berkeley). 
The theory suggests that a large extrater­
restrial body struck the earth at high velocity. 
The energy was such that the impacting body 
was distintigrated and caused much dust to be 
thrown up into the atmosphere, severly limit· 
ing the transfer of the sun's energy to the 
earth, cooled the planet and c:aused most of 
the vegatation on the planet to die leaving 
little for the dinosaurs to cat. Thus, the 
dinosaurs became extinct. The catastrophic 
cooling of the planet is also !l_uggested to have 
caused the simultaneous extinction of some 
groups of marine organisms as well. 
The impact event on land is marked by a 
pronounced increase in iridium, a rare ele· 
ment on the surface of the earth, and by a 
change in the types and abundances of fossil 
pollen. These features can be traced over 
wide areas and can be used to study events 
before and after the impact. Our research has 
succeeded in documenting th<: occurances of 
dinosaurs that survived the impact event and 
lived as much as a quarter of a million years 
after the asteroid hit the earth. We have also 
been able to document that dinosaur popula· 
lions were already in a state of pronounced 
decline weU in advance of the impact, and, in 
fact, had been in that decline for about 10 mil· 
lion years preceeding the impact event. In ot· 
her words, the asteroid impact did not cause 
the extinction of dinosaurs, but their extinc­
tion seems to have been caused by a number 
ofenvironmental pressures acting over a long 
period oftime. 
In order to determine what may have con· 
tributed to the extinction of dinosaurs, we 
study the ancient environments in which the 
dinosaurs lived. Most people view the 
dinosaurs roaming around in lush tropical 
vegetation simllar to that of the southern 
United States today, complete with swamps 
and perhaps a rain forest or two. We are now 
quite sure that this was not the case for 
dinosaurs living at the end ofCretaceous time 
in Montana. These dinosaurs inhabited broad 
open areas like the plains ofEast Africa. These 
areas were seperated by seasonal rivers which 
were subject to !flash tloodlng. There was 
tropical vegetation around, but it was limited 
to the narrow, well-watered river banks. In ot· 
her words, the last of the dinosaurs in Mon· 
tana lived in and around narrow fragile 
habitats. These habitats could be quite easily 
disrupted and result inwhatwould appear as a 
local extinction. We find no evidence of an 
extinction here, but see the dinosaurs surviv· 
ing well past an asteroid impact event. Cer· 
tainly, if there had been broad, instantaneous 
environmental destruction caused by the im­
pact, would not those dinosaurs living in the 
fragile environments be the first to suffer? 
We have also been studying the evolution of mammals that lived during this same inter­val of geologic time. In a reasonably short · period of time there is a rapid diversification ofmammal species. It appears as though some pressure which held mammals in check during the long period of coexistance with the dinosaurs had been suddenly lifted, even though the dinosaurs were still present in 
some numbers in the same environment. We' 
do not yet know what this 11ressure release 
was, but we certainly can see its effects in the 
fossil record. 

"It is better to give than to receive," our mothers ;md fathers tell us when we are children. Throughout our lives we repeat this saying bo1th to ourselves and to others. But this sayin~: runs counter to our most basic ex­periences. 
Steve Safranek a view from the limb 
When we are children, our parents, under .the guise of Santa Claus, give us wonderful gifts. On Christmas Day we wait expectantly· to unwrap the brightly-wrappe gifts. Most of us then think that we, the receivers, were the beneficiaries; we were the ones who were better off. 
Similarly, when we give gifts, whether it be those gifts we have made or those acquired by a quick uip to the store, we do so for the benefit of the receiver. We want them to like our present. If they do not like it, we are al· most always hurt, sometimes upset, and OC· cassionally even insulted. People who receive our gifts, we think, should be thankful. They should rc:alize how fortunate they are to receive our gifts. 
At abolllt the high school age, most of us begin to look for. other ways to spread Christmas joy. Some of us visit the sick, some workwith the poor, and some ofus try to help shelter th4e homeless. Our efforts are usually greeted with a million thanks. 
Sometimes, though, someone is not happy with our 1¢1 or with our help. These people put a damper on our spirits. We wonder why this person is not overjoyed to receive our help. The poor, the sick, and the homeless should surely be happy to receive these benefits from us. Somehow, we still believe that those who receive our gifts are the ones who are truly better off for our giving. It is the receiver who is better off, and it it is he who should be grateful. 
Christ, by his coming to save all mankind, seems to prove how much better off is the receiver than the giver. It is we receivers who were benefitted by His gift ofHis very self, His gift oflov4e. 
But when we reflect upon this giving, and think back upon our common experiences, we should be struck by the awesomeness of His gifts. He has given us more than we have ever given or could ever give anyone. Yet He 
Garry Trudeau 
THf GUYACRIJ95 THE M/3 h!iAIN. II/ANT HALL'S A t:JR1J3OEALER. 7DCOME/NONI 5TE£R QEAR, M YOU ACHRI~MA5 /QKXU MIKE -HE'Sli/JAJiffS fOR7He 
l1JB8Y? 
does not coerce us into thanking Him. But we also see that we are truly more thankless than the most truculent thankless poor. 
Once we gain this perspective, or at least 
have it as a pivot to which we can return when 
our perspective is jaded, the true spirit of 
Christmas begins to be seen. The spirit of 
Christmas is love. It is when we love as Christ 
did that we learn why lt ls better to give than 
to receive· because when we love, we imitate 
Him. 
But the demand oflove ls more than most of 
us usually choose to give. It is easier to buy a 
gift in the store, or to do things that fit in with 
our time schedule or pocketbook. It is easier 
to do those things that are quantifiable. 
It is much more difficult to work without counting our cost, or our gifts (to work wit· hout seeking reward · even a thank you). It is difficult to give to the needy in the spirit that Mother Theresa does. She does not focus on the material aid she gives to the poor, but she recognizes the human dignity of the poor by loving them. She sees that our material gifts are mere vehicles to our finest gift, our love and concern. 
Love is so difficult to give, especially to the sick and derelict, because it forces us to look at the other as having intrinsic value. A person who loves does not look essentially to their own good or their own benefit. Instead, a per· son who loves realizes the human dignity of the other person, and treats the other accord· ingly. It is also often most heroic in its day-to· day application · in true concern for those around us everyday. 
When we love others, we realize that our material gifts, whatever they might be, are in some way insufficient for the receiver; the ot· her deserves so much more. This is why young lovers shower their beloved with the best and most expensive gifts, always wishing to give the beloved more. 
When we give our gifts at Christmas, and when we give our time or money to various good causes, we should do so with true humility, knowing that our material gifts themselves are meager. But we should not be downcast, for ifwe truly give, we also give our love. We give as Christ gives · we give knowing that it is truly better to give than to receive. 
Merry Christmas. 
Steve Safranek is a second-year law stu­dent anda regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the day 
"When a man points a finger at someone else, he should remember that three of his fingers are pointed athimself." 
Anonymous 

---~-----------------------T-u-e-sd_a_y_,_D_e_c_e_m_b_e_r_l_0_,_1_9_8_5____p_a_g_e_7--------~l 

John Steinbeck brought the plight of the migrant farm worker to the attention of the nation with "The Grapes of Wrath." Years later, Cesar Chavez and California migrants made headlines by organizing a boycott of lettuce. In both of these instances, the con­cern and sympathy of the public was illicited. Middle-class America was outraged that inthis land of opportunity so many were being denied access to the corridors of economic advancement. Farm laborers earned sub­minimum wages and lived in substandard housing. Theirs was a case that ran contrary to the American Dream. Completely mar­ginalized, the migrant farm worker would never be able to pull himself up by his bootstraps. Americans called for change. There was momentum and there was hope. Americans would not allow the exploitation ofother Americans to continue. 
Patrick Markey guest column 
Unfortunately, time wore on. Americans forgot about "The Grapes of Wrath" and the Chavez movement. The plight of the farm worker left the realm of middle-Am!!rican concern. The Depression and World War II distracted us, and our memory of Steinbeck's migrant grew dimmer and dimmer. Later, at the time of the lettuce boycott, our preoc­cupation with Watergate and the end of the Vietnam War made possible the dissipation of our enthusiasm for changing the social condi­tions of the migrant. 
America's interest in the problem waned. Unfortunately, however, the poor conditions under which the migrant had to work and live did not. They remain to this day. Here in the Indiana-Ohio area, migrant farm laborers, who hail mostly from Texas, find some employ­ment picking tomatoes. Many are housed in one-room shacks. For all, on-the-job injuries are three times are likely as they are for other workers. Further, their wages are as uncertain as the weather. Ifit rains, they do not pick, and hence, do not get paid What is worse still is the fact that often they toil for an hourly wage below that which the federal government has determined to be the allowable minimum. In order to sustain themselves, most families are forced to enlist the services of their younger members. Thc:se. often below the legal working age of 16, consequently lost valuable school time because the paychecks that their parents can earn are not enough to raise a family on. Poverty is a way of life for the migrant workers. It was a way of life in the 1930s, "The Grapes ofWrath" era; itwas a way of life in the 1970s, the lettuce-boycott era; and It remains a way of life in the 1980s, the 
era of today. The problem nearly went away. Americans simply forgot about it. 
The migrant farm worker is proud. He has chosen work over the dole. He is, hence, the kind of person we in America like: a worker, not a loafer. Yet, despite all his hard work, the migra.nt will probably never be able to break the chain that ties him to a life below the pove1:ty line. The migrant, because he is wit­hout !bargaining power, is trapped in his situa­tion, and is without hope ofescape -without hope,, unless we, equal opportunity-loving Americans, lend him a hand. Before we forget the plight of the migrant farm laborer again, let us make a conscious and concerted effort to ch;mge his reality. 
Toward ptis end, the Farm Labor Orga.niz­ing Committee has called for a boycott of Campbells' products. Campbells' commis­sions independent farm owners, for whom the migrants work, to grow tomatoes. The boycott is directed at Campbells rather than at individual farm owners because Campbells is ultimately responsible for the plight of the migrants. The funding with which they provide the owners determines the wages and conditions with which the owners can provide for the workers. 
Thus, even if the migrant were to find him­self irn an economic position from which he could strike against the owner, he would ac­hieve little. He would be hitting at the wrong man. He would be hitting at the middle man. The ij:oal of the boycott is to place demands upon the responsible party: Campbells. Be­cause the migrant worker has no leverage with this corporation, we, the consumers, are better equipped to make the demands. When, because ofour boycott, their annual sales fall, Campbells will be forced into trilateral negotiations with the independent farm owners and the migrant laborers. Then, with all interested parties present, an agreement more favorable to the migrants can be ham­mered out. 
The University of Notre Dame, together with the Ohio Catholic bishops, the AFL-CIO and an array ofother American institutions al­ready support the boycott. We need to con­tinue supporting it (a referendum on Univell'sity continuance is slated for early next semester). We need also to bring the boycott back to our homes and hometowns. We can effect change. We can do what "The Grapes of Wrath" and the Chavez generations in Americawere unable to do: we can remember the migrant farm laborer. By doing so actively (by boycotting Campbells' products), we can help to erase the enigma of his exploitation from our national conscience. 
Pah'ick Markey is a senior government major at Notre Dame and a member of tbe FLOC loupport group. 


P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5:303 
• 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not nec:essarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­taries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to aH members of the community and the free el[pression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
Editorial Bc)8rd 

Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton ManaginQ Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor .............................................. Frank Upo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's ExeciiJtive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Edlitor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ......... , ........................... Joe Murphy Photography .Editcll'............~~............ Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
Operations Board 
Business Manager...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager....................... John A. Men nell 
Founded November 3, 1966 
j 

Way to solve problems is not by using force 
Withou1: a doub1~ Rambo ·is one ofthe most popular movie characters around Sylvester Staillone has certainly "made it" again this year, especially now that "Rocky IV" has in its first week or so bec;ome a box-office smash. 
Wllliam WilSon the word most mangled 
But there is something about all this that really bothers me. Why have films which deal whh violence and ;mti-Soviet themes become so populat'? What has caused our society to change from one where we desire to work out differences in a ratiional manner to one where we:: say, "Let's send in Rambo"? 
!For the most part, we claim to be a civilized society. But are w'e really civilized? After all, 
All these things, and more, are symptomatic of a new age, an age where we would rather think with our biceps than with our brains. Certainly the Soviet Union is an adversary, but must we settle our differences with boxing gloves, or even worse, nuclearweapons? Why can't we settle our differences by using our brains and talking? 
It scares me when I see young children playing Rambo-type games. But what scares me worse is when parents -people In control ­encourage such behavior. It appears as if we are teaching our children that fighting is the only way to solve our problems. Is this right? 
Ifwe were meant to solve our problems by fighting, then why were we endowed by our Creator with a brain which could think and reason? By fighting, are we not wasting our greatest gift ofall? 
I can understand the popularity of movies 
j 

we kiil1 one anothe1r; we threaten one another. such as "Rambo" and "Rocky IV." There is a 
Do (or should) civilized people act like this? certain thrill about seeing ur hero overcome 
Anyone who has tried to get me to go see the odds and win. I cannot help but smile "Rocky IV" has met with opposition. For one when Sonny Crockett goes after the bad guys thing, I have not seen any of the previous on "Miami Vice." But we must keep these Rocky films, and I do not plan to start now. But things in perspective. As we enter the that is not the main reason. I refuse to go see a Christmas season, let us remember that Jesus film wher1e the b~g question is "Will Rocky wants our world to be one ofpeace, not war. be:at up that evil Russian boxer?" Let us not forget that the best way to solve 
Why was Rocky's opponent made to be a differences and problems is by using our Russian? If the real story asks "Will Rocky heads and not our muscles. make up for his friend's death?" then why mUtst the antagonist be Russian? What Is wrong with a German opponent, or a Mexican William Wilson ts a sophomore in tbe Col­opponent? Why did the producers even need lege ofArts and Letters and a regular View­to bring politics into the story? pointcolumnist. 
C__P_._O._B_o_xQ_ ____, 
Muller also stated "There's a military­
Students address points 
industrial complex making a fantastic amount of money on these weapons and it's going to
made in class lecture go on and on." The cardiologist fails to realize 
Dear Editor: that the United States has consistently spent 
We would like to address several points only approximately 10 percent of its defense 
made by Dr.James IE. Muller during hislecture budget on nuclear weapons. Obviously, the 
to lthe "Nuclear DUemma" class on Dec 4. "military-industrial" complex mentioned by 
Muller claimed 1:hat the alleged U.S.-Soviet Muller would be "making" far more on non­"arms race" coulld be curtailed without nuclear expenditures. However, Muller, as negotiations: "All President Reagan has to do have others, finds it quite filshionable to emo­is s.ign a piece of p:lper saying we're going to tionally attack U.S. nuclear policy, failing to halt nuclelar explosions." Interesting reason­note that it is this policy that has maintained a ing! There is no c:vidence whatsoever that state of peace, however unstable, with the So'riet nuclear prolliferation has slowed since Soviet Union for forty years. the alleged halt ofnuclear testing last August. Steve Sprigg Even if su<:h a pau:!iC in testing has occurred, Dennts Healy the limited time SJ[>an of such inactivity will Mike Tessitore have no effect upon continued future Students, "Nuclear Dilemma" class proliferation. Indec:d, there is no factual basis supporting the clllim that levels of nuclear warheads would decrease or that buildup rateswould slow as a result ofsuchcessations. 
Viewpoint 
The only effects ohuch testing halts would be 
increases in previiously-tested systems and 
Policy

questionable safety for newly-developed, un­tested syst,ems. Additionally, dmring his presentation, Mul­ler consistc:ntly emphasized the magnitude of 
• All letters to the editor submitted to the· current U.S. arms build-up as reflected by 
The Observer become the property of the large number of U.S. nuclear weapons. 
The Observer. Letters must be typed, Muller fail1ed to point out that in 1967 the 
no longer than 250 words and signed by United S1tates possessed approximately 
the author. The Observer reserves the 32,000 nuclear w1eapons, compared to ap­
right to edit all material received. proximately 26,000 in 1982. Moreover, whereas in 1962 the total destructive 
• Commentaries in The Observer do megatonage ofU.S. nuclear forces stood at ap­
not necessarily reflect the opinions of proximately 8,000 megatons, in 1982 the 
The Observer. 
figure was approl!:imately 4,100 megatons. 
Clefll'ly, the United! States possesses an enor­
• Guest columns may not respond mous destructive capability. However, one 
directly to previous commentaries ap­
mUtst question whcether Muller's reliance on 
pearing in The Observer and may not the: term '"arms race" accurately represents 
exceed 700 words. reality. 
The Observer Tuesday, December 10, 1985-page 8
• 
Sports Briefs Tar Heels remain in AP top spot, whlle Irish fall from lOth to 17th 
Dave Poulin, former Notre Dame hockey star now with the Philadelphia Flyers, recently signed a new multiyear contract with the NHLclub. · Tbe Observer 
North Carolina, which ltlas brokenThe ND Rowing Club team picrure for this year's 
the 100-point mark three times this Christmas card will be taken tonl&ht at 6:30 in the Administration 
season, r-c:malned atop the As· Building. All varsity and novice rowers should attend. For more in· 
sociated Press Top Twenty as the formation call Patricia Worth at 283-2900. · Tbe Observer 
Tar Heels received 47 ofthe 65 first­place votes c:ast by a nationwide Men's crew members should report for practice 
panel ofwriters and broadcasters. today and Thursday at S p.m. at all concourses. Novice rowers are 
The Tar Heels, 6-0, who received welcome. For more information call Chris Nye at 236-4400. · Tbe 
1,281 points, won their only game last week, a 114-71 pounding ofRut· gers. Earlier in the season, North Carolina topped the 100-point mark 

Observer 
A WVFI sports festival will take place toni&ht at 1o 
against UCLA and Iona. 

p.m. with 'Trivia Night' on "Speaking of Sports" on WVFI, AM-640. 
Michigan, Duke and Syracuse heldJoin host Chuck Freeby as he offers valuable prizes to callers at 239· the second through fourth spots,6400. Then, at 10:30, Frank Mastro and Rudy Brandl host "College respectively, while Georgetown,Football Today's Bowl Preview". · Tbe Observer. 

sixth last week, moved into a tie for fifth with Georgia Tech, which held Women's basketball fans who wish to play an 
the slot alone last week. active and visible role in the 1985-86 season should call Kevin at 
Michigan, 6-0, received 13 first· 239·7250 to be a part ofa progressive support group for the team. · 
place votes and 1 ,213 points, while 
Duke had four first-plac(' votes and 1,162 points, and Syracuse had 1,100 points. 

Tbe Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted sunday 
Georgetown, 4-0, rec:eived thethrough Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor remaining first-place vote and 956ofLdortune. Briefll should be submitted on the forms available at the points, the same as Georgia Tech, 4­office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person 

1.

submitting it. · Tbe Observer 
The seventh through ninth places remained the same from last week as 

Classifieds 
Kansas, 6-1, Oklahoma, 6-0, and Ken­Second Ten is Memphis State, tucky, 5-0, received 918, 777 and Nevada-las Vegas, St. John's, Louis· 774 points, respectively. ville, Alabama-Birmingham, Notre 
illinois, 5·1, which won its three Dame, Indiana, DePaul and Ohio games last week by an average of State. Last week's Second Ten was Louisiana State, Illinois, Memphis 
APTopT-, 
State, Nevada-Las Vegas, St. John's,

The Top T....,ty college ......... teama In Th• Aaaocl.red f'ffiN poll. with 11.-.t-pl.ce vol• in peren­Louisville, Alabama-Birmingham th-.lhle _,.• recorde and t~ poinla. Poln18 and Iowa, while Auburn and Indiana baed on 20-19-18·17 etc. Noire Deme opponen18 
were tied for 19th. 

we Italicized. 
Iowa, which lost to Arkansas State 

1. North Carolina (47) 6-0 1281 
66-62 in the opening round of the

2. Mlchiglln ( 13) 3. Ouke(4) 
4. S}ftcUN 
5. Geugetown 
6. 
a-gla Tech 

7. 
K..­


8. 
Oldehorne 

9. 
Kentucl<y 

10. 
tllnole 

11. 
LSU 

12. 
Matnphil State 

13. 
UNLV 

14. 
St. John'l 

15. 
Loulev!Ne 


18. UAB 
17. NolnO..... 
18. /ndl­
18. DePaul 
20. Ohio State 
6-0 1213 8-{) 1t62 Amana-Hawkeye Classic before 
5-{) 1100 rebounding with a 21-point victory
4-{) 956 4-t 956 over Lehigh in the consolation 
&-1 918 game, and Auburn, which beat West 
6-0 777 
5-{) n4 Virginia and Kentucky Wesleyan last 
5-1 814 week before falling to Western Ken· 6-0 813 
tucky 71·58, were the only teams to
5-{) 595 
5-1 518 fall from the Top Twenty. &-1 474 
DePaul, 3-0, and Ohio State, 5-0, 
3-2 311 
5-1 302 are the newcomers to the poll. l-1 2111 Indiana, 18th this week, handed 
2·1 226 3-{) 113 
Notre Dame, then ranked 1Oth, its 5-{) 85 first loss ofthe year, 82-67, but fell to Kentucky 63-58 without the 

41.1 points, moved from 12th to services of standout guard Steve AI· 1Oth place with 614 points, one ford, who was suspended for one more than Louisiana State, 6-0, game by the NCAA for allowing his which was IIth for the second con­photograph to be used in a sorority secutive week. calendar that was being sold to raise 
Following Louisiana State in the money for a summer camp for girls. 
Tht• Ohsen•t'r :'liorrt· Damt· office. lot ~tnl on lht· lhirt.l floor of L~hmunt· ~tut.lt·nt <.t·n~t·r. atTt·pts t·la"ilit-<.1 .it.l\"t'fl"ong lrom ').1m un1ol t p m. \lont.la\ through l·rot.ld\ Tht' Ohsf'Tt'f'r ~doni \1.1n 'olfitt' lot.llt"t.l on lht· thort.l tloor ol Haggar Collegt· ( t'nlt·r. .lllTPI' da"ofit·J, from I! ~o p m unul ~ p m \I on <.1.1\· though l·rot.l.l\ llt'.it.llont· for ne" t.l.i\ tla'"tinh " ~ p m .-\II da"ofit·J, must ht· prt·p.1ot.l. t·llhl'f on pnson or h' mao I ( harJ.:t'" I 0 <Till' pt·r the ,·hara< tt·rs ·r <.Ia\" 

NOTICES 
Nice lumiehacl homee for MXt echool r­
2n-31104 
Nice Mml·tumlehed houM In good,..._borhood lor'. 256-31164. 
8 BEOAOOM HOME.CL08E TO 
CMFUS.272-41306 
LOST/FOUND I 
'1111 the-fol kJai"fflhl,.... THERE ARE 1WO THIN08 I HAVE LOBT R£CENT\. V THAT ARE CIIUCUIL FOR MY SURVIVAl ON THIS CAMPUS AT THIS TIME OF YEAR: 1. All ND ~ IHIION AUTO.TB.L11111 11M:H1t1e CARD. You know )'<IU ..,.1 11M money ou1 d my -nl '**-you don't 
twve the --no. I do, lind I 
need 11W C*dl2. All LL.uti&OVI!, 
Lm'T HAND. tl'e rwvy an the t.dl. clny 
1PWY on the front, lllf1t -lfing. T..._ 
pity on my "-!ng IIIII hllndl IF FOUND, 
~ RETURN TO PAULA 
MIRANOA.(I'M IN THE DIRECTORY.) 
THANKS SO MUCHIIIII 
LOST: Someone ecddenly picl<ed up my ~-,., (lweed), wool co.! from ...coat room al the L,.,._.F..t.y·MIItonl F....... II )'<IU nollced )'<IU fDI the -.g onoo, ~Clll Mo: X3023. X2118, ..X2118. 
LOST: IF YOU WERE AT ALUMNI'S FOAMAL NOV 23, YOU MAY HAVE MY COAT!! MY FRfENO PICKED UP A WOMEN'a LONO IEIOE WOOL COAT WHICH LOOKS A LOT UKE MINE. IF YOU HAVE A SIYLAPI COAT WITH MOM! TRIM AND MOWN SUTTONS PLEASE CAll 2114-5643 OR 1152e. I HAVEVOUMI 
!!!LOST POCKET WATCH Ill 0111 From Lillie lie lor ~ MUCH Senti....,.. V.... CM'1 go -without it IOOZE lind lUCKS REWARD Ill u.t ,_ SlepMl, p.._Cllllft!AN AT 2116-11621. 
FOUNO: One ~ -eophomore buai-......... naWiociL eom.tr. 
LOBT: HELPf lloet my .......and now I ..,·t --They have gold, metal ,.,.. 
and .._,tly tinted ....... The ....... -•In• eoll, dati< brown.,_, II you find them.!"-eel Joe •13404. ~­
LOST MI881NO LOST Mt881NO LOST Red Folder rnieelng from 8Ctl1h Dining
.... 
FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND OOLD LADIES OUNn'Z WATCH BETWEEN WAlSH AND HAYE8-HEALY CAll DAN AT 2566 
LOaT: CMNMOI,. MWMm OF fOUIID l*ll......a ...,......... .......... 
......... fllal-...... , 
....,...._..._. __ T_al 
..... or ....,. ............ 
WOULD THE VOUNO MAN WHO IIOAAOWED THE SPANISH BROCHURES FROM THE MODERN LANOUAQE8 OFFICE BEFORE THAHK8GIVING PLEASE RETURN THEM IMMEDIATELY. WE NEED THEM! 
LOBT: A PAIR OF PEAAL STUD EAR­RIN08, ONE BROKEN, ENCASED IN A SMALL PlA8TlC JEWELRY BAG. THEY WERE A ORADUATION OIFT, AND HAVE MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE! IF FOUND, PLEASE CAU. BETH AT X38e1. 
LOBT LOST LOBT LOBT LOBT LOBT LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST RED FOLDER Mt881NO FAa.! SOUTH DININO HALL AROUND NOV 
22. I WANT ITI IF FOUNO, PLEASE, PLEASE CAll X38e1. 
FOUND: one 1*roleldlng glov•ln room 123 Nleu...-.cl 8dence ...-. Oo to LAla1 atld Found on the eeconcl floor ol u FOf1une to Identify atld d-'m. 
L.Oel: A PAIR OF SAPPHIRE STIIO EAMIN08 BETWEEN STEPAN PAAKINO LOT AND FARLEY ... I KNOW THIS 18 A LONG SHOT, BUT IF YOU HAPPEN TO FIND THEM. PLEASE 
CAUJUUEAT4071. 
Mt881NO: w..... leathat, maroon •oon­taine v...._ ldentlficallon II ,..,.. have It or know where It 18, !"-rwcum 10 146 Mon1eeey (3478), atlOnyftiOU8Iy K you went~ I NEED IT BACK. TMnD. M.n< Licl<ona 
FOUNO: ORTHODONTIC RETAINERS (YUCK) AND VARIOUS 81NOLE EAR­RINOS. IF YOUR OVER81TE 18 OET· TINO A UTilE 08VIOU8 OR IF AN EAALOIIE FEELS UNDUL V EXPOSED CLAJMTHESEARTICLE8ATTHELOBT AND FOUND, SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
LOBT NOV. 25 LUNCH TIME AT SOUTH DININO HALL • BLUE NO IIOOK BAG 
L...--_W_A_NT_E_D-----~~ 
WANTED: An eperlment lor two guye lor 
eprtng --Wll take either • ,_. per-. or • lour~ J*ce. p,.r• Cempua v-but w11 take olhat. Clll Mike at 3342 . 
NEED onoo mile ,_lor ,_. --TurtleCreek. Clll277·2118. 
$J088$J088SJ08S EAIIH OREAT MONEY. LOTS OF BENEFITS. CAll 8MC ALUMNAE, PARENTS, AND FRIENDS IN AN EXCITINO FUNORAI8­INO PROJECT. CAll MARTHA OR PAT IMMEDIATELY TOStON UP FOR THE TRAININO SESSION ON DECEMBER 11 FAa.! 6-10. HURRY· TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE!! OUR NUMBER IS 5351. 
NEED RIDE TO NO. NJ DEC 20 JANET 284-4346 
HELP-NEED RIDE FOR XMASIWe 3 need ride to lll.cbllurg,V-clf• Tech) N.Ca.wll be cloM-wil et-. S & dr1ving.CIII1200. 
Ride needed to U, NY. Can IMve 20 Dec 1111•4pmor21 Dec. Clll4083. 
Need 2 RIDERS to D.C. Frank 1388 
Need RIDERS to BOSTON. L_..e 12120,Retum }/13. Clll JOAN 2n•ll92tl 
FOR SALE 
.. It True You C... ..,Y ,_,. lor 144 lf1nll9l the u.a. .,.,_?Get the '-* .....,, c.ll 141~742-1142. bl '1'111. 
DEPENDABLE TRANSPORTATION 1978 CHEVETIE, $1400. 272-6827. 
IILAUPUNKT CAR STEREO, POWER BOOSTER. EQUALIZER, 4 SPEAKERS. OREAT PACKAGE DEAL. CALL EVENINOS, 289-4342. 
80 HONDA CIVIC, 5-SPEED. VERY 0000 CONDITION, DEPENDABLE. $2200.CAU. 2689 AFTER 5. 
!DIAL CHNaTIIAS CliFT lbua.•idt Er ...,....,., c:.tenclll' for 1111"-hl.. ..,Y 111 Dining 1-w..lll dl..,. anT...... Dooc.10 & Wed., Dooc 11. atu«**t DIMount Prloe: ...00 ,... ,,.. dudM) 
APPLE 1200 MODEM. VERY UTilE 

[ TICKETS 
NEED BUCKS FOR A CHRISTMAS 
PRESENT FOR MY BABY SISTER. BUY 
MY BASKETBALL SEASON TIX!Itltl 
CAll TONY 
1028 

I t.dly need 3 UCLA bai<etb-" ticl<ete. Contect JuNe 2n-{)117 
PERSONALS 
--·o;;·~;;;;·~~;;;·;;~~~-u;~·;~;;g-~;;;;:;~-~ 
tounet on Nrth? Vou'M be.,...king down the atreet •nd euddenly lt'a Ike • moving poeta~d wound you? 
Her.'e how lh• peop,. Nve hate, In big hou....,eplld b<»t.. to kHP otr '!Wn' end '..-.ow,· holea cut in the aidee eo they can-out. Th•y move .roundIn amellerbolr•. Pfl/nted different cdota, with..n.-on th• comeno. 
They need thla bOJr-culrure beceuae NCh penon t/Jinka of hwae/fend hlmaelf a locked In a bo• celled e 'body,· atm11 end /ega, ~-ng.,. to move penclfe end tocw, lltnflu-u..becauaa lh•y've forgot· 
tanhowtoeH. 
• Richwd Bach, 

The~--~F-• 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER a LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BlOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
PREGNANT? 
NI!I!DHI!LP? 
Cell ~'34-()363. 24-hr. holline, couneeling 
atr.... pregnancy t-. 

WOIII!N'a CARE CENTER 
Earn SSS for .. thoee books you didn't reed!! PANDORA'S wil buy your uNd books M-F 11-4. or we can help you lind 1 uNdbool<foraa... We'reopenM-F 11· 8, SAT & SUN 10-5. PANDORA'S ie op­poeite CORBY'S •t937 South Bend Ave. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 

DREAM-TI!AIII!M: Th•nkl for a W•tNmeeler! The DrNm Mater 
Alod il'a true we 111e immune when f•ctll flc~otl, T.V. • rNI/ty Alod today the ml/1/ona cry We Nt•nd drink whi,. '"'""""w th•y die U2 
PERFECT CHRiaTIIM CliFT FDR IIOIIa DAD
...,,... ........tdl 

En........, c:.tenclll'lor 1111 
Ooing to 01 thru Allenta AaheviNe or Knox· viHe for x-muo?l need a ride ..te otc20 or on 21.WIN help pay.D•n 3250 
HUNORV? Cell VEUOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Houre: Monday· Thuredey 5pm-12em: Friday 5pm-2em: S.1Urda 3pm-1am; Sunday 4pm-1 Opm 
PITTSBUROH CLUB • CHRISTMAS BREAK BUSES MEETINO: LITilE THEATRE, t..FORTUNE TUES. DEC 10AT 8:00PM LEAVE: CCE (NO) & HOLY CROSS (SMC) THURS. DEC. 18 AT 2:00 PM a FRI. DEC. 20 AT 11:00 PM RETURN: OR~HOUND TERM. IN PITT. MON. JAN. 13 AT 1:00 PM COST: $55 ROUNDTRIP/ $40 ONE·WAV OUE8­TfONS' CALL A.J. X1644 
Vou've-.them. You've h-d_,.,.,!them. Now you can get them I HOOP HYaTI!IIA T-aHIIn'a tor Logan Cent• llhon or long IIIHv• Cell 2078 or 2088 lor delivery 
KATHLEEN MAOLICtc-t hope you have 
• WMt day!!! Oood luct< next wee!< and h•ve a MARY Chrietma! K.K. 
NJ XIIM aua Sign-upe Wed. Dec 11 7· BPM t..IOf1une OBUD o..k $80 roundtrip. ?'e cell 264-5415. Aek for Dobbie 
808-808-8011-808 NOW THAT WE'VE MET, I'VE GOT A PROPOSI· TION: YOU TEU ME YOUR LAST NAME, AND f'U TEU YOU MINE. HAVE WE OOT A DEAL? 'TIL WE MEET AOAIN INN. DINING HALL, NANCY 
Ride needed to DAVTON/CINCV, OH atH leuving anytime Thur. 12/19 Amy 4143 
U:f COl.OfiAOO tfff SPfiiNG liMA« 'II Stay In Condo'a on the llopee o1 Brekenridge Min., .00 enjoy your own 
•unauh and hoi tub. Trip IIIIo includlte ill tici<d lor Copper 111. K~ 111., ....._._.,ANpehoa ._.n, Mel op­IIOMI ttc:QI lor v•r. Match 22·28 MNting Wedneedey, December 11 at 
7:30 in t..FOf1une Little ThMtre lor anyone intereeted. 
Bob, Now that ehe knowe your fire! name, ehe hu to know your lat. The monogramed towele cannot be returned. Pleue cell11001'1•t4434. We know Nancy waon18 to talk to you .n. 
IIAJITINA NAVMTILOVA, DAVID IIOWIE, ULY TOIILIN, JAIIU DEAN, I!LTON JOHN, AND 
aoPHOIIOflll! CLAM CHRiaTIIM PARTY THURSDAY, DEC. 12 9:00 LAFORTUNE 8AUR00M' 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SHARI Lave, Mom, 0-.1, Jil, Jayne and .IeMen 
Who ie the U-.t •-that ~lid enochw 1lcln av• Thenlc8givong? Everyone knowe th•e i1 onty one tru• Lizwd Women · a.k.8. he ...,_ 
Come on lgu•na. defend your bile' 
·-"' 
ThenkeiiO'C Couldn't have h-.1 more tun woth • n"* pfQOn Have you ever broken your loot on • date w/T.O.? OetweiiiiOOI'I! We plllty "Chicago Style'" 
~ChrietmM Concert tonight FREE tix at Roell du 1....: 
To the girt in the red peieley penta and the rflll eol1 white •-ter. I mel you at Howard' a happy hour Friday and I heven'1 been llble to etop thinking llboul you eonce. You're gorgeoue •nd I went to ... you .n.Oiel 2488 •nd mel<e me emile. 
HAPPY 18TH OEEK!!JI OIVE HER A CALL AND WISH HER A HAPPY 8-0AV SMc-4179 LOVE SANOV,JENNIFER,JENIFER 
REV P. "TEDDY BEAR", CON­ORATULATIONS ON MEO SCHOOL!! GOOD LUCK I LOVE, STEPH AND SUE 
John, Wh•l'• th•t E·word .n? When!!l!! Th•nkl tor the weel<end. UR27' 
Kron In CA: Surtln' Satan c/o A.A. Welcome~ DUDE! -WOMAN. 
Holiday Special 
50¢ off 
Send a Christmas ·personal to a friend. :-• 
Just bring In this coupon and receive 50 cents off.• your next classified ad 

~-lie .,... atld ........_ atld W!lNITIALS M.W. PLEASE CAll MIKE USE. S200 O.B.O 239-7180 OR 233-ltv«**t Price: 11.00 (lu tnduclacl) LOU ..EI!D 
order. One coupon per

.,...._ 11ft ,..,.. ""*'ng lor lhla? Clll AT 234-1087. EXTfiEMELV IMPOR­1299. """"'-111 Dining 1-w.. 111 dl..,. an HAVE NOT GONE THROUGH UFE 1373. !Wen your lie tale .,art TANT T..._, Dec.1o a wac~.. o.c.11. WITH ONI! HAND TIED UHIND THEIR order (order Includes •• 
VW BUG 1870 Exc.lent running c:ondi· ttACKa. LOVE WHOIII!VIJI YOU Ntl! total days ad Is to run).u:.T: NOTM DAME a.A88 RINO ON u.t: Koca.k Dlec-:1100 at the L8U llon.$300 llrm. Happy 20th IIOVI!D TO LOVE· AND CliVI! OTHI!M PATH IETWEEN HlJIILEY AHD ART gane either In the -.cllum or on ar.... SHARI SUE THI! UIIE FJtUDOII. CIAVS a La Offer expires Dec. 12, 8UILDINO IN THI! aHOW CAlliCOTT field. I .., ~ Identify. p.._ SI<IS for ...., Hlfl Comp CR'I WeloYeVou IIIANa AT NDtaiiC, P.O. IIOX 114, 1985. 407111'1EWAN> OFFE"Etl relllm. Clll Mary card AT2114-5242 wlbinclngo~ 200 cm,mlnt Erik 1623 NOniE DAilE, IN 4tlll. 
.••••.•••••••••.•••..•.....•.i ••••••••••..•••••••••••••..••••••• 

Tuesday, December 10, 1985-page 9 
The Observer 
Green returns interception for TD to give Rams upset win over 49ers 
SAN FRANCISCO -Cornerback Gary Green returned an intercep­tion 41 yards for a touchdown with 
3:24 remaining Monday night to give Los Angeles a 27-20 upset vic­tory over the San Francisco 49ers and assure the Rams of at least a wild-card berth in the Nat~onal Foot­ball League playoffs. 
The Rams, 10-4, moved two games ahead of the 49ers in the Na­tional Football Conferen.ce West race. San Francisco's defending Super Bowl champions fell to 8-6 and probably will need victories in their last two regular-season games to have any opportunity to reach the playoffs. 
The Rams were behind three times against the 49ers before tying 
Price 
continuedfrompage 12 
APPhoto 

Los Angeles Rams receiver Henry Ellard runs to open field in 
Not to be lost in all this is the 12­

earlier NFL action. Last night tbe Rams clinched at least a wild­
point, five-rebound performance of 

card berth In tbe playoffs by defeating tbe 49ers 27-20. The 49ers 
Kempton. The Irish center doubled 

finished with a 410-264 offensive yardage advantage over tbe 
·his combined scoring output ~f the 

Rams. 
first four games of the season, and looked especially strong in the
flanker as a junior and senior. He 
middle.
carried 3S times for 228 yards and 
"Kempton played well out of the

Coaches 
two touchdowns as a running back 
box for us," added Phelps. "He hit
in '77 and '78, playing under former

continued/rom page 12 the baseline jumper and I think he's
Notre Dame assistant coach Tom 
playing as well as he ever has here." 

to be retained after posting a 3-7-1 lichtenberg. He helped Iowa State Rivers, while not turning in one ofmark in '84. to 8-4 marks in each of those two his most spectacular games, stillKelly, S6, a native ofRockford, lll., seasons, as well as appearances in managed to chip in 1S point'S, nine ofgraduated from Notre Dame in 19S3 the Peach and Hall ofFame bowls. 
which came from the free throwafter his playing career was cut short After a knee injury kept him out of line. 

by an injury. He spent two years the '79 season, Cerrato rebounded "Sometimes you get so concernedcoaching at St. Joseph's High School to start at flanker the next two with guarding Rivers, that you forgetin South Bend, before moving to seasons. The 6-0, 190-pound Cer­about some of the other people,"Marquette in 19S7. In 1961 he rato caught 26 passes for 412 yards said Oregon coach Don Monson, thejoined Bob Devaney's staff at and two touchdowns during his recipient of two technical fouls inNebraska where he coached for Cyclone career. 
the second half. "One of thoseeight seasons. A former ~Ll.l-state quarterback at people was Price. We did not get toKelly helped the Huskers lead the Albert Lea High School in Albert Lea, 

nation in total defense in 1963 and Minn., Cerrato threw for more than 
1967, and helped the Irish consis­I ,300 yards as a seniorand also com­
tently achieve high national peted in hockey and track. 
Vegasdefensive rankings while developing In 1967, Fazio came up from the such standouts as Bob Olson, Bob high school coaching ranks to his 
continuedjrompage 12 

Golic, aob Crable, Mark Zavagnin, first collegiate post as offensive line and Tony Furjanic. coach at Boston University. He State, who eventually won the 
Yonto, 60, coached at the high moved on to Harvard the following tournament, was present along with school level in Indiana, Michigan, year where he coached the Oklahoma State, Oklahoma and Mic­and Illinois before joining Parseg­defensive line. His first stint at Pitt higan. hian's staff in 1964. A native of Or­began in 1969 as a linebacker coach McCann's satisfaction with the rville, Ohio, Yonto coached 12 for the Panthers, a position he held weekend's resultswasquite evident. defensive linemen who earned All­from 1969-72. "When I got there and saw the 43 
America honors, including Alan He served as the defensive coor­other teams, the over 400 entries, Page, Kevin Hardy, Mike McCoy, dinator at Cincinnati from 1973-76, and the quality wrestlers all over the Walt Patulski, Greg Marx, Mike Fan­before returning to Pitt as place, I did a small double take," said ning, Steve Niehaus, and Ross linebacker coach in 1977. After two McCann. "I had hoped we might Browner. more years at that position, he was finish in the top twenty; 13th was 
Cerrato first came to Iowa State in made defensive coordinator under very good. I'm really happy with 
1977 as a quarterback, then ended Head Coach Jackie Sherrill. In 1982 what we achieved." 
up contributing as a running back he replaced Sherrill as head coach of "We finished ahead ofsome excel­
his first two seasons and starting at the Panthers. lent teams. Illinois State, Oregon, 
"-~-~.alit-~-~-~~-~-~-~-~....~-~-~-~--.t>-.~-t'>...t>...~-t>-t>_t>_t>...t>....t>.,...:....~...t>-~-~-~:o.-..:.-.~:o. 
~ ND/SMC Theatre Presents Hay Fever by ~ 
" Noel Coward l 
'' A Delightfully Frivolous Comedy £•
0 ·Q 
" J
~ O'Laughlin Auditorium Student Tickets $4.00 ·~ ' December5,6,7,12,13,14 MaybepurchasedatDoor f t0 At 8:10 P.M. Or Reserved by calling the ~ ~ ~ . Box Office at 284-4626 • 
-o:.-.:.-..:.-.o:..-.~-.ll>.-t>-.~:>• o:..;..~:o.-.ll>.-ll>.;..ll>.-~Y.Il>.-.ll>.-~.-.!i~-IS.;..IS.;..~S.;..Il>.-~IS.;..~-..:..-~..-.~-~.-..:.,..~.-.~.;..t> f} 

AtfO -...c.. EtiS!MILI CONCERT 
• WASHIN&TO~ J.IALL .­
I
Raeac. 0u lAc. Mo,._y '"III&MY .. 

the score 20-20 with S:08left in the 
final quarter. Dieter Brock threw a 
39-yard touchdown to Henry Ellard, 
who grabbed the ball after it popped 
out of defender Dwight Hicks' 
hands. Mike Lansford's conversion 
tied it. 

The 49ers started from their 23­
yard-line after the Ellard touchdown 
and got one first down before Green 
made his sixth interception of the 
year and scored the winning touch­
down. Joe Montana threw a short 
pass over the middle to running 
back Carl Monroe, but the ball 
popped away and into Green's grasp. 
San Francisco's final possession 
ended when defensive end Gary 
Jeter forced a fumble, which he 
recovered, on a sack ofMontana. 
Jerry Rice, the 49ers' rookie wide 'receiver, set a team record with 241 yards on 1 0 receptions. He caught a 66-yard touchdown pass early in the third period and his S2-yard recep­tion early in the fourth quarter set up Montana's third ID pass of the game, a strike to fullback Roger Craig which broke a 13-13 tie. 
Montana's 7-yard touchdown pass to Dwight Clark on the first play of the second quarter accounted for the first points of the game. The Rams got a 2S-yard field goal from Lansford in the second period and tralled 7-3 at halftime. 
Ron Brown sent the Rams ahead for the first time by opening the second half with an 86-yard kickoff return for a touchdown. It was the third such scoring run of the season for the NFL's leading kickoff returner. 

guys like Price, and surely it cost us in some areas." 
Oregon, 2-3, did manage to fork out a 1 7-14 lead at one point in the first half. Anthony Taylor, the Ducks' leading scorer in the game with 19 points, threw down a vicious slam dunk with 11:1 0 remaining before intermission to put Oregon up by three, its largest lead ofthe contest. 
An otherwise strong showing by Taylor may have been over­shadowed by his six turnovers, however. 
Kenny Sprague added 14 points for the Ducks on perfect 7-of-7 shooting, while red-headed guard Rick Osborn contributed 16 points ofhis own in the losing effort. 
Price would come back to can a 1 S-foot jumper offan inbounds pass only 1:04 after Taylor's dunk, and Notre Dame was back on top at 18­
17. Taylor would counter with a 15o­footer of his own to regain the lead for Oregon. However, Rivers hit a jumper with an assist to Hicks, put­ting the Irish ahead to stay. 
Notre Dame, 4-1, let Oregon get within 29-27 at halftime, but put together a 12-2 run six minutes into the second half to put the game out ofreach. Stevenson hit three straight buckets for the Irish to start the spurt, while Price helped the cause by hitting two outside jumpers. At that point, Notre Dame had stretched its margin to S3-43 and was in firm commandofthe contest. 
Only minutes later, Monson began the outburst which brought him two technicals. Later, the Oregon coach admitted that the second ofthe two bench fouls was a silly one to pick up. 
"I had the first one coming, I guess," Monson said. "I just felt that ifwe were getting bumped and they were getting bumped, that it should be called at both ends ofthe floor. 
"On the second technical, I didn't 
read the guy very well. Itwasa dumb 

coaching move on my part, and I 
apologized to my team for it." 
The Irish now partake in final ex­
ams along with the rest of the stu­
dent body and are idle until a Dec. 
21 date with Valparaiso. 

BYU, and Idaho all placed behind us. The fact that we had no seeded wrestlers and were pretty much at the draw's mercy just makes what we did that much better." 
The Irish had some superb in­dividual performances which gar­nered the points responsible for the team's high finish. 
Freshman 134 pounder Jerry Durso had another outstanding big tournament. Durso followed his championship at the St. Louis Open with an impressive fourth place finish in Las Vegas. Durso was eliminated by Oklahoma State's Leo Dalley. The eventual winner and a two time All-American, Bailey's toughest match was a close 5-3 deci­
sion over Durso. 
In the heavier classes, senior cap­tain John Krug and freshman Chris Genc:sc:r also placed Krug was seventh at 177 lbs. and Gc:neser finished sixth at 167Ibs. 
Other good showings came from sophomore Dan Carrigan at 126 lbs. and junior Dave Helmer at 190 lbs. Both won two matches in their classes. 
McCann's most pleasant surprise may have come from heavyweight football player Mark Antonic:tti. The sophomore was 2-2 in Las Vegas and, accordirig to McCann, has the talent and attitude to make future even rosier for Notre Dame. 

The last stop for the Irish before Christmas is a triangular meet with Valparaiso and Drake in Valparaiso tomorrow. Notre Dame has an 0-10 series record with Drake, but con­sidering the Irish performances in Las Vegas, Drake's dominance could be challenged. 

Pittsburgh Club 
Christmas Break Bus 
Meeting: Little Theatre, LaFortune Tuesday, Dec. 10 at 6 p.m. 
LEAVE: CCE (ND) and Holy Cross (SMC) Thursday, Dec. 19 at 2 p.m. Friday, Dec. 20 at 11 p.m. 
RETURN: Greyhound terminal P .H. Monday, Jan. 13 at 1 p.m. 
Cost: $55 Roundtrip -$40 one way 



The Observer Tuesday, December 10, 1985-page 10 
proved too strong. that the: loss would weaken her For the Irish the loss to Tennessee team's ciaim for a tournament bid,
Vols 

was particularly disappointing be­she stated her hopes that her team 
continued/rom page 12 

cause it was another opportunity for would rebound and settle the matter suffered a sll'ess fracture in her leg in 
the growing Notre Dame program to through the remainder of the last Thursday's Irish win over Mic­
assert itself as NCAA tournament schedule:. higan. 
caliber. The Volunteers, who beat "Even the NCAA doesn't close Noue Dame senior Trena Keys, Noll'e Dame last year, 62-57, went to your coffin in December," said DiS­who was named this week's North 
the semi-finals of the Mideast tanislao. "The team really dug deep Star Conference Player ofthe Week, 
Regional in the 1985 tournament for this one, and wecould be a really led the Irish with 16 points, while despite having a very youthful team. good team if we dig deep every senior Lynn Ebben chipped in with 
Although DiStanislao admitted time." 
11 points and 7 rebounds. The rest of the All-America of­
But despite thc:sc fine individual fensive: unit consists of wide: 
efforts, Tennessee was ablle to go to

Michigan State: running back receiver Tim McGee of Tennessee, 
their expansive talent on the bench

Lorenzo White: and Oklahoma offensive: tackle Jim Dombrowski of 
to wear out the Irish. 6-2 center

linebacker Brian Bosworth, two of VIrginia, guards Jeff Brc:gel of Sout­
Karia Horton added 14 points and 8

the: bc:st sophomores to come: along hern California andJohn Rienstra of 
rebounds to form with Frost an in·

In rc:cc:nt years, were: named to the: 
Temple, center Pete: Anderson of 
timldating inside game which, al­

1985 Associated Prc:8ll AU-Amc:rica Georgia and quarterback Chuck 
though played well by the collapsing

team Monday. 
Long ofIowa. man-to-man defense: of Notre Dame,Thc:y were: Jolnc:d on the: tc:am..by 

Rounding out the defensive squad

Hc:l.sman Trophy-winning tailback 
arc: lineman Mike Hammc:rstc:ln of Ten-71, Notrw Dune&3 BoJackson of Auburn and Lombardi 
Michigan, linebackers Michael Ten-(71) Award rc:clplc:nt Tony Casllias, Ok­M FG-A FT·Il R F p
Brooks ofLSU andJohnny Holland of 
McCray 19 2-7 o-o 1 0 4

lahoma's brilliant nose: guard. 
Texas AAM, deep backs Thomas 
Horton 29 6-9 2-4 8 3 14

It was the: second appc:arancc: on 
Everett ofBaylor and Mark Moore of Spinks 6 0.2 o-o 0 0 0 the tint team for Jackson, who made Marr 24 2-5 ~ 2 1 7
Oklahoma State, and punter BarryIt In 1983 but missed out a year ago Sexton 25 1-7 2-4 2 3 4
Helton ofColorado. 
MII!Sh 16 0.2 9-9 2 3 9

when he was llmltc:d to six games 
Freet 31 7-15 3-6 17 3 17

because: of a shoulder InJury, and White burst upon the scene and 
Bostic 22 4-8 2·3 5 1 10 Casilias, one: of six repeaters from led the nation In rushing with a Big Gordon '17 3-10 0.1 4 2 6 
last season. Ten-record 1,908 yards, an average Litttejohn 11 o-2 o-o 1 0 0 200 25-67 21-31 42 16 71
Thc: other repeaters from 1984 of 173.5 yards per game. Jackson, 
FG Pet. • .373. FT Pet. • .6n. Team

arc: llllnol.s wide receiver David Wil­the c:arly-sc:ason leader, was ham­
rebounds • 3. Turnovers • 17. Assists -1 0 liams and UCLA placeklcker John pered by nagging InJuries In several (Marsh 3). Technicals ·none. Lee: on offc:n5c: and Oklahoma State games and finished third with I62A Notre Deme(&3) M FG-A FT·A A F p
tackle Leslie O'Neal, Iowa yards a game, although his total of 
Keys 20 6-12 4-4 4 4 16

linebacker Larry Station and Arizona I,786 rushing yards was second best 
Bromm eland 33 6-10 1·2 6 3 13 Stare defemlve back David Fulcher nationally. Botham 16 1-4 o-o 5 2 2 on dcfc:n5c:. Gavin 30 3-11 1··2 4 3 7 Ebben 35 5-12 1-2 7 2 11
In addition, Miami (Fla.) tight end White: also led the nation in 
Kuhns 6 0.1 (}.() 0 0 0

WUllc Smith and Wc:st Virginia of­scoring with II4 points on 19 5 6
Toney 22 2·5 2-3 5 femtve tackle Brian Jozwiak moved touchdowns, while Jackson tied for Willis 29 3-10 0.() 7 5 6 
up from the second team a year ago · second with 102 points on 17 TDs. Basford 7 1-4 o-o 1 2 2 198 27~9 . 9-'13 39 241 &3
as did Bosworth -while dcfemlve White: and Jackson finished fourth 
FG Pet. • .391. FT Pet. • .692. Team

tackle: Tim Grc:c:n ofSyracuse: was on and fifth, respectively, in all-purpose' Questions are we(comed, refreshments will be served 
I• 

Belles lose to NAIA ranked squad, lose both games in Goshen tourney
ByJILL SARBENOFF 
Sports Writer 
Over the weekend, the Saint Mary's basketball team participated in a tournament at Goshen College. On Friday night, the: Belles were defeated by Defiance College, a NAIA nationally ranked team, 66-48. 
Saint Mary's also lost in the con­solation game on Saturday to Gos­hen, 93-61. Defiance, meanwhile:, went on to play Franklin College in the championship game. 
In Friday's game, Defiance: took an early 11-2 lead. The Belles fought back, however, and tightc:nf:d up the margin to 23·22 Defiance lead. At the end ofthe first half, the score was 32-24 in favor of Defiance. In the second half, Defiance took charge. 
The top scorer for the Belles in this first game was senior forward Beth Kreher with 14 points. Tammye Radke contributed with with 12 points. Kreher also had eight rebounds. Defensively, the Belles was led by Stephanie Duke: and Krls "It wasn't that our girls played Panterilla, both of whom had four poorly, it's Just that Goshen didn't steals. make any mistakes. Goshen played 

Considering Defiance was 5-0 and an excellent game. They were at was nationally ranked coming into their best," said Wood. the tournament, the: Belles ran up Leading scorers for the Belles against stiff competition including were Kreber with 14 and Jennifer their opponents tough man-to-man Harte with 12. Harte also had five defense. rebounds. 
"We played pretty well. We were Coach Wood commented on down at halfby eight and pulled wit· Harte's performance. "Harte looked hin six late in the second period. good against Goshen. She got in From then on, Defiance's superior double figures for the first time: this size and skill took over," stated season and had several rebounds." Coach Marvin Wood. Even though the Belles lost both 
In Saturday's 93-61 loss to Gos-games, some good did come out of hen, the score was close for the first the game against Goshen, In that 10 minutes, with Goshen having a some of the younger, unex­21-1 5 edge over Saint Mary's. Gos-perienced members of the team got hen dominated the rest of the half playing time. and proceeded to make 9 ofits next "I used several ofour young fresh­1 0 shots. Goshen went into half-time men. It was a chance for them to gain leading 49-30. experience and make conuibutions 
Two of the maJor factors that con-to the team later in the season." tributed to Goshen's success were Saint Mary's is hoping to improve their conll'ol of the boards and 60 its 1-3 record Friday night when it percent shooting from the field. takes on Judson College at Judson. 
the third team In 1984. rushing. 
/ TBANKYOU 

Campus.,....f ft to all who have made 
H I 

a r ~er~ Hair Crafters' ~ debut at Saint Mary's ® a success. We appre­
~rG~Ptace· ciate your support and we invite you to stop in for a visit anytime. 
Jfon.·Tflurs. 9-8

284-5363 
Prl. 9-6

LeMans Hall 
Lower Level North Sat. 10.4 
rebounds • 0. Turnovers • 28. Assists • 11 (Ebben 4). Technicals ·none. 


~~~5~~~~~~~~:~ft!IJ~~i~i~E1!:~::;jc:i:;c};;~:,::;::;:::,;;~~:,,/: 
}{::~}:~~:{ ·rhe Ghost of Christmas Past has a low" .
::~::::::::::::::::::: ::::::~::::::;~::~;f soft sound. Mrs. Cratchit"s voice is sharp" :::{:{:::;:::::::::shrill and loud. Scrooge's voice changes a :~/:t~~::~~ bit--nasty at the first ·aahl Humbug t; 
::::::::::::::~:::{::::::: but submissive when he sees his miserly :::::::?:{::~:?::: doom" and happy as he finally lakes on ::::::;:::::?:::{::the Christmas spirit.• ••ac, suw. 
}l%itfi,~; ';ir,:·>i>sfA:,':'~'arvv;r.,~·,,A~:;~ji~i:t~~~;·:~)Ji.~;g
......,............... ~.b..Jl..tY...........u.........tor....u.m.................t ......~ ......a.t..........-........~~· .......... 
••·.:.·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.;.·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:.••; ...:.··:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:.·.:.·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:.·.:0 ·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:.... :.·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:. ·.:....:.·.:.... :.·.:.·.:. ·.:. ·.:.·.:.·.:. ·.:. ·.: •• 
'JI['~4tllcat~-----------------------------------------T·u·e-sd_a_r_._n_e_c_e_m_b_e_r_t_o_._1_9_B_s___
P_a_g_e_l_l 

Bloom County 
NO XIKJJL fOf?. M€ 
1W/!Y, Ill/(), I 11M ILL •.• NI1Y, 5PIK.ITTIAUY 
WOUNfJ!.tl. 
Zeto 
11?5, I HA~ BeeN LI5T6NING 1rJ MY ROCK f?€C()f?fl5 116111N•.• 1/NfJ HAVING 8€€N Pt/MMeL€() srm~ 085CeNmes... Tlll LYRICS.Tli£5MI1NIC INIII6£f?Y... 
I ... I F€€Z UK€ G«NG CXJT 77J 
M/I?WI? ANfl 11550CiflTF­WirH fiTll£1515. 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

SO MVCH FOR 
M a'(f(}()&te­
1@6f€ 8(..1/[.fJ f?(ISG. 
~ 
Kevin Walsh 
BEINC7 16NORANr ~ ITS A'f>VIWTN:£5 ~ DA'r'S LIKE: TODA'r'. 

Campus 

•9:30 
A.M. · 4:30 P.M. · Sale, Annual Unicef Christmas Sale, Ubrary Concourse, Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

•12:00 
P.M.. Brown Bag Seminar, "Panies, Politicians and the State: Problems of Democratization in Brazil", Frances Hagopian, Kellogg Institute, Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute 

•4:15 
P.M. · Meeting, Spring CEDA Topic, Ubrary G·2, Sponsored by Debate and Speech Council 

•5:45 
P.M. -Lecture, "Maintaining Public Confidence in the Accounting Profession", Joseph E. Connor Senior Panner, Price Water­house, Room 122 Hayes·Healy, Sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi, NDAA 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Savage 5 Aids a felon 
10 Hair style 14 Jal­15 Yogi of 
baseball 16 A Coward 17 Speechless 19 Part of GWTW 20 Turn inside out 21 Actor Beatty 22 Indians 23 Closes up 
again 26 Old Nick 28 Condition 30 Words of 
rejection 33 Wanes 36 Tragic king 
of drama 38 In one piece 39 Pasture 40 Sweetened 
the kitty 42 Actor Mineo 43 Adds liquor to 46 Song 47 Copper 48 Limb joints 50 Tranquility nickname 52 Foul·smelling 6 Gamble 54 Treated 7 The old sod 
unjustly 8 Cornered 58 Tel-9 Depress so Command to 10 Torment 
Dobbin 11 Free to wander 62 Boutique 12 Glassmaker 63 Money in Milan Lalique 64 Willful 13 Music to a 67 Eat carefully matador's ears 68 Boo·boo 18 Home of the 69 Large landmass Jazz 70 Adjunct 24 Refrain 71 River mouth syllables 
material 25 Exhausted 72 Dregs 27 "I do" is one 
29 Enjoy greatly DOWN 31 Author Milne 1 Hydrophobe's 32 Throw things 
aversion at 2 "-a Parade" 33 A Fitzgerald 3 Turnpike 34 An Orson 
feature 35 Boomeranged 4 Stray from 37 Take up again the subject 41 Expensive 



Testing whether or not animals "kiss." 
•6:00 
P.M.· Madripl Dinner, Madrigal Din· ner Full Dress Rehearsal with Dessen, Regina Hall Nonh, 15.00, seating starts at 6:30p.m. 

•7:00 
P.M. -Presentationand Recepdon, E. andJ. Gallo Winery, Notre Dame Room, Mor· ris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Open to all BA and BBA Seniors in· terested in career opportunities with E. and J. Winery 

•8:00 
P.M. · Concert, Shenanigans, Was· hington Hall, 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Roast Pork Loin Bc:ef Potato Pie Baked Cod Sausage Pepper Grinder 
TV Tonight 

6:00P.M. 16 News<:cnter 16 zz 22 Eyewitness News 6:30P.M. 16 NBC Nightly News zz CBS Evenlns News 7:00P.M. 16 MASH Z2 Three's Company 7:30P.M. 16 Barney Miller zz WKRP In Cincinnati 8:00P.M. 16 TheA·Team zz CBS Special: "Alice In Wonder· 
land" Z8 Who's the Boss 34 NOVA: "Nomads of the Rain 
Forest" 8:30P.M. Z8 Growlns Pains 46 Skylite Calvalcade 

9:00P.M.  16  Riptide  
Z8  Moonlightlns  
34  Alvin  TolBer's  "The  Third  
Wave"  
46  LeseaAllve  

Saint Mary's Grilled Pork Chops Spaghetti with Meat Sauce Spaghetti with Marinara Sauce 
Cheese Sou.tBe  
10:00 P.M.  16  Remington Steele  
zz  CBS Special: Johnny  Cash  
Christmas Show  
Z8  Spenser: For Hire  
46  Dwi(lht 1bompeon  
!0:30P.M.  34  Apprentlc to the Gods Reuben  
Naldan  
ll:OOP.M.  16  News<:enter 16  
zz  22 Eyewltnellll News  
Z8  WSJV Ncwswatch 28  
34  Body Electric  
46  Praise the lord  
11:30P.M.  16  Tonipu Show  
zz  Simon and Simon/CBS  late  
Movie: "McCoy: Bless the Bls  
Fish'  
Z8  ABC News Niptline  
34  Star Trek  
tz:OOP.M.  16  David Letterman  
Z8  Eye On Hollywood  
Z:OOP.M.  zz  Nightwatch  
46  Independent Network News  

44 Heiglilten 45 Gel 47 Domlinant 49 Expressed 
sorro•w 51 Price 53 Plow pioneer 55 Silly jj)erson 
12110/85 56 Baseball's 
Banks 57 Fr. artist 58 "Mash" star 
59 8 
61 "Fatha" Hines 65 Speck 66 Madrid Mrs. 

,.~~ ~~~X.XX...""<:,..;K~X)'XK'lC«< ~-: , :-.-.."-"'X-X'C(~-,~~~~~-x:•)( x•;.<,;..::•;o~~~~">ale<·.:.~·: ·.:.-:..-:.:· ·;•;· .... 
~~~~~ ffiQr 1Jrisf1 <&arbrns ! 
i.:~~ ORDER NOW! CALL 283-4242 Man-s~~:~~3o-s:3o i 
(,.. =--=~-~>~~~-X.X>.."4!X~X!IIXX!£1<•>XI<'~ · ~~. .~·.c~ ~~-~~~~x~-~XAX>al<»>X~<~;:Jt;<:·:~··>:-•~<:~ 
Tuesday, December 10, 1985-page 12
SRorts 
Red-hot Price scores 20, leads Irish to 72-63 win over Oregon at ACC 
ByJEFF BLUMB Guys like Donald Royal, Tim turned In 14 points in 23 minutes of sports Bdtlm' Kempton and jim Dolan did an ex· action, further solidifying his posi­cellent job ofsetting picks for me." tion as a member of the starting five. joseph Price was hot. He knew it. Noticeably absent from the front "I thought we did some good His teammates knew it. And the line last night was senior captain things tonight," Phelps said. "We 11,345 farui at the ACC last night Ken Barlow, who sat out the game had a lot ofrespect for Oregon com­knew it. because he cut a class last Thursday. ing in to the game. They forced us to 
1be end result of all this Irish coach Digger Phelps has a per· make a number of adjustments, in­knowledge was a 72-63 win by the sonal policy of holding out any cluding switching to match-up zonet Notre Dame basketball team over player· who misses class. The player in the second half.
I 
the University of Oregon. As Price's Is benched for one game after Phelps "Stevenson and Price had some
I 
teammates continued to feed him finds out about the player's absence:. key shots for us. In the second half, it 
' the ball, he kept firing away from the Price was not the only Notre was their show. But Price was outside until he had a grand total of Dame player to turn in an outstand­overdue to explode, and tonight he 20 points to his credit. ing performance, however. Mark did. And when Oregon stopped
t 
"I really felt confident," :;aid Price, Stevenson, David Rivers, Kempton Rivers, Stevenson came through. who also pulled down seven and Dolan all played well. Mark had a Jot ofcomposure out on rebounds. "I had a good flow going The freshman Stevenson con­the floor. jim Dolan did a good job and my teammates were getting me tinued to be right at home in the defensively, too." the ball. I also was getting a lot of lineup after drawing his second con­
see PRICE, page 9

good picks from our big men Inside. secutive starting assignment. He 
Kelly, Yonto named to Holtz staff; Fazio comes to town for interview 
By LARRY BURKE entire tenures of Dan Devine and sistant to Athletic Director Gene AuUUintSports Bdttor Gerry Faust. Corrigan while handling ad­Yonto first came to Notre Dame as minlstative assignments for football. George Kelly and joe Yonto, both a member of Par!ICghian's staff in "George Kelly and joe Yonto are longtime members of the Notre 1964 and coached the defensive line both Notre Dame graduates, and Dame football staff, will join former through the Parsegbian and Devine they know the University, its system Minnesota recrutlng coordinator and its people," says Holtz. "They've Vinny Cerrato as members of Lou both been highly-regarded on the Holtz' coaching staff in 1986, It was football field and they'll give us announced yesterday. some continuity as we begin to put 
Former Pittsburgh head coach some things together." Foge Fazio was at the ACC yesterday Cerrato, a native ofFlushing. N.Y., to interview for a spot on the coach­is just 26 years old. He 1:ook ove'r as Ing staff. Fazio was fired by the Pan­Holtz' recruiting coordinator in late thers two weeks ago. August following two seasons as a By EDJORDANICH Playing on the odds that an excellent 
No specific areas ofresponsibility graduate assistant on the Golden Sports Wrltt!r field could only contribute to the were released yesterday, but all Gopher staff. He also spent one year continuing education of his mat three coaches have been assured of as a graduate assistant at Iowa State Taking a relatively inexperienced pupils, and betting on the long range on-the-field assignments on Holtz' in 1982 after receiving his under­team to Las Vegas for a national benefits ofthe Las Vegas Invitational staff. Kelly and Yonto figure to graduate degree in physical educa­tournament would have seemed like towards national honors, McCann handle defensive duties, while Cer­tion there in 1981. a risky gamble. Competing against won his wager and received an rato will organize the Irish recruit­Fazio, a 1960 graduate of the best wrestling programs in the added bonus with a 13th place finish lfii efforts In addition to helping Pittsburgh, coached there for four country with five freshmen would overall this past weekend. coach the offensive skill positions. years, producing a record of 25-18-have seemed like having two kings at 'I1le 44 team event included every 
Kelly has been Notre Dame's 3. His '85 Panthers went 5-5-1, not the blackjack table and asking for serious challenger (except Iowa) linebacker coach the last 17 seasons, nearly a good enough record for him another card. for the national championship. Iowa servifii the last six !1Ca50ns under Irish wrestling coach Fran 
see COACHES, page 9 see VEGAS, page 9 
An Panqbjan and through the McCann knew what he was doing. 
Notre Dame women go cold, lose to ninth-ranked Tennessee, 71-63 
BY MAR'IY BURNS "We came out and let down a little trips, a disputed technical foul call Asstst.:lnt Sports Edttor bit in the second hal..t;" said Notre by referee Patty Broderick late in the Dame coach Mary DiStanislao, who game virtually sealed the Irish loss. 
The Notre Dame women's basket­:;aw her team's record fall to 2-2 on Holding the ball and the momen· ball team made Tennessee sweat for the season. "lbere's truth to the old tum ofa late comeback, Notre Dame a while yesterday afternoon at the adage that you can tell how a game forward Kathy Brommeland entered ACC. But an unexpected Frost and will turn out by watching the first the game without checking in with an untimely cold spell by the Irish few minutes of the second half. It the official scorer. After the referees offense melted away any upset happened today. We were able to denied the substitution, Summitt hopes for the home team and led the scrap back a little bit but we just asked for and received a technical Lady Volunteers to a 71-63 victory. could not get out of the hole." foul call for illegal substitution. The 
The Frost: which hit ~he Irish was Tennessee head coach Pat Sum­Volunteers, who were clinging to a 6-4 Tennessee center Sheila Frost. mitt, who also guided the 1984 U.S. six-point margin at the time, got a The freshman burned the nets by women's Olympic team to a gold free throw and the ball back to scoring 17 points and grabbing 17 medal last summer, agreed with DIS­squelch the uprising and finish the rebounds to pace the Volunteer at­tanislao's assessment and heaped victory. tack. She was particularly damaging praise on Frost for her efforts. "I think It would have gone down in the first half when her 13 points "At the half we were concerned to the wire if not for the technical," and 9 rebounds served1 to offilc:t an about the first three minutes of the noted DIStanislao. "It broke our extremely well-played half by the second hal..t;" she said. "We asked backs. (Officials) have always just Irish. our players to come out and extend pulled my players off the court in the 
It was the cold spell in the first the defense and work the offense. past. But those are the breaks." 
. seven minutes of the second hal..t; They played excellently and made It is not surprising that Brom­however, that actually killed Notre some good decisions which made meland was so anxious to get back in Dame's hopes. After going to the the difference. the contest. The 6-3 sophomore for­locker room down only 33-32 at the "And (Frost) Is going to be a great ward played one of the finer games break, the Irish came out flat and player," continued Summitt. "She of her young career, scoring 13 allowed Tennessee to extend Its kept putting the ball In for us and points and pulling down six lead to 46-38. worked the boards for us." rebounds while splitting time with 
Although the Irish hustled DiStanislao and much of the 222 junior Lavetta Willis. Willis ( 6 desperately to get back into the con­&ns in attendance, meanwhile, left points, 7 rebounds) played well her· test at this point, the depth of the little doubt that they felt the officiat­self as the two players combined to Volunteer bench and successful free ing had contributed to the Irish col­make up nicely for the absence of throw shooting ( 16-of-22) by Ten­lapse. Apart from the fact that the 5·1 freshman phenom Heidi Bunek who neS!ICe down the stretch proved too Volunteers went to the charity 
see VOLS, page 10 

much. stripe 31 times to Notre" Dame's 13 

Freshman guard Mark Stevenson (24), qutckly establtsbtng bts role, drives upcourt tn actton agatnst Loyola Saturday. Last ntgbt tbeIrish uttltzedconsistentsboottng leadby]osepbPrice to baitan Oregon comeback, 72-63. 
ND wrestlers take 13th at tough Vegas Invite 








