--~-------~---~---<S< SCI! -1QUI .._.._.. 
... 
Vietnam -page 8 
VOL XIX, NO. 139 
THURSDAY, MAY 2, 1985 

ISO to conduct survey to determine validity of contested elections 
By MAURA MANDYCK According to the constitution, Senior StaffReporter "Elections shall be held no later than the last week of March." Elected offi­
Active members of the Interna­cials then would assume their posi­tional Students Organization will be tions on April l. This year, however, surveyed to determine whether the elections were held on April ll they think the April ll election of and Eid maintains that this was un­Jack Myers and Margarita Villalon as fair. co-presidents should be nullified or Maher Mouasher wrote the verified. present constitution over the sum­
The survey is the result of a mer, and it was approved on Novem­meeting yesterday of ISO members ber 9, 1 984 by the board ofthe ISO. and Brother George Schmitz, the Said Mouasher, "Everyone agreed club's sponsor. to the late date. The vote was 
Mansour Eid, Myers and Villalon's counted fairly. I should know; I was opponent in the election, claimed there." As to the constitutional dis­the election was unfair and should crepancy, Mouasher added, "If be nullified. Eid and Naomi Durham anyone had any problems with the ran for the ISO co-presidency. constitution they should have 
Meyers said he thinks the election spoken up. I don't believe there's is valid and there should be no fur­any issue here." ther question as to his presidency. Louisa DeMello, former co­
"Marga and I did get a significant president, said of yesterday's deci­amount of the votes, otherwise we sion, "We decided as a group that it would not have been declared the was probably for the best. Mansour winners," said Myers. "I was just a was right about the date change. He participant in the election," he con­agreed to it, but we should stick to tinued. "I had nothing to do with the the constitution." way it was run. I don't see how Man­DeMello explained that the date sour can say that I am corrupt." was changed because Winston Grif­
The ISO constitution reads "any fin, the former co-president, was ill member attending 50 percent or and spring break interfered with the mpre of the organizational meetings procedures. She said that Mouasher, will be eligible to vote in all or­who wrote the constitution, is "very ganizational elections." responsible, trustworthy. To say that 
Eid pointed out that the largest I said he is a good friend of mine is delegations, the Indian and the completely out ofcontext." Chinese, send representatives to the DeMello defended the procedure meetings and therefore not all mem­for determining voting rights, bers attend. "In fact, the head of the saying, "Even if the head of the In­Indian delegation didn't even get a dian delegation attends, it doesn't newsletter (telling of the upcoming mean that all (Indians) attend and election)." Eid added. that it should count as 50 votes." 
Eid said he thought the criteria for 
determining an active member was
Correction 
"very critical." Not all members at­tend the organizational meetings Because ofan editing error, the 
but they may participate in ISO func­photo on the front page of Tues­
tions.. "Those are the active mem­day's Observer was incorrectly 
bers," said Eid, "doing things in the identified. The woman in the 
name of the ISO." picture is a doctoral student at 
Myers was disturbed that he was Notre Dame studying electrical 
specifically identified by The Obser­engineering. She also is a teac­
ver as an American when "the ot­her's assistant. 
see ELECTION, page 3 
APPhoto
Anniversary celebration 
Armored personnel carriers pass the reviewing Vietnam. A related article reflecting on Notre Dame stand in Ho Chi Minh City during the celebration of during the war appears on page 8. the lOth anniversary of the end of hostilities in 



No investment protests planned by student government, network 
By MIRIAM HILL 
Copy Editor 
Neither the Notre Dame student government nor the Anti-Apartheid Network will organize a protest against University policies toward investment in South Africa, unlike 

. cohorts at other universities across the country (see related story page 5). Both the Notre Dame Anti­Apartheid Network and the student government subcommittee set up to gather information on the Univer­sity's investments in South Africa believe a protest here would make the administration and the Board of Trustees less willing to discuss the University's investment policy, ac­cording to Pat Baccanari, a member ofboth the network and chairman of the subcommittee. "We (the Network) seriously con­sidered protesting, but thought it 
would not be the proper thing to do in light of the willingness of the Board of Trustees to talk with us," said John Dettling, chairman of the student government Committee for Responsible University Business Practices and Network member. 
"We have to stress we're one com­munity here and as one community we have to sit down and discuss before we decide to take actions," he said. 
Dettling said a protest would be antagonistic and "automatically create sides." 
Dettling will meet today with the chairman of the Board of Trustees' Committee for Student Affairs to present a student government proposal calling for a meeting bet­ween student leaders and the Board of Trustees' Investment Committee in October 1985. The October meeting will be a forum for discus­sion of the University's investment policy. 
Also today, Anti-Apartheid Net­work leader Margarita Rose and several network members, includ­ing Baccanari and Professor Peter Walshe, will meet with Robert Wil­mouth, chairman of the Investment Committee of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees, to discuss the University's investment policy. 
Rose said the Network will ask the trustees to revise the current policy of investing only in companies that have signed the Sullivan Principles to a policy ofinvesting in companies that have signed the recently revised Sullivan Principles. 
The Anti-Apartheid Network is a loosely organized body of several autonomous campus interest groups. Baccanari and Dettlingserve on the student government commit-
see AFRICA, page 5 


Campus organizations offer aid to minority students 
Editor's Note: This is the third part 
ofa three part series detailing the 
problems and situations minority 
students face on the Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Today's article focuses on 
minority students' clubs and or­ganizations. 
By MARGIE KERSTEN 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
You're 4000 miles away from home and everybody and everyth­ing seems terribly unfamiliar. Where do you go? 
Minority and international stu­dents at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have several clubs and or­ganizations which will attempt to adjust them to their new com­munities. 
Notre Dame's Office of Interna­

tiona! Student Affairs aids students 
who attend Notre Dame from 
foreign countries. 

"I see myself as the link between the international students and the United States · Department of Justice, Immigration, and Naturalization," said Brother George Schmitz, director of Notre Dame's Office of International Stu­dent Affairs. 
Under the International Student Affairs office a number of groups for different minorities have been established: The India Association, The Chinese Scholars Association, which includes the People's Republic of ·china, and The Chinese Students Association, which includes those students from Taiwan. 
Also in conjunction with the In­

ternational Student Affairs office is 
the International Student Or­ganization. The co-presidents for this past school year were Winston Griffin and Louisa DeMello. r\c­cording to DeMello, "We are minorites, but we have never been given the chance to share with the American minorities on campus, except at the night at Senior Bar." 
Minority Student Series 
DeMello is referring to an Ethnic Night that was sponsored by both student government and the ISO in which all minorities and interna­tional students at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame were invited to at­tend. The ISO also sponsors an an­

nual International Festival where food from all different countries is served. 
DeMello said that a lot of minority students took part in the festival, but added that more inter­action would be necessary be­cause "I'm still not sure they consider us minorities, because we're not a part of the American heritage." 
Other organizations under the ISO are the American Lebanese Club and the Hispanic Student As­sociation. 
Although the minority students at Saint Mary's are encouraged to attend the Notre Dame organiza­tions, the minority enrollment at Saint Mary's is extremely low. 
"Minorities at Saint Mary's are very poorly represented on all levels of the college -students, faculty, and administration," said Sister Karoljackowski, dean ofStu­dent Affairs at the College. 
According to Jackowski, the main concern of the College for next year will be to decide whet­her or not minorities are necessary on campus and if so how will the College go about providing the atmosphere for minority students. 
"The campus climate is impor­tant for bringing in minorities. People must feel comfortable before we start actively recruiting minorities. We need to look at the attitudes of the students, faculty and administration," she said. 
"I think we need to diversify the college community. There is a ten­dency to hire people and recruit students who already fit into the Saint Mary's mold." 
"I think the most valuable parts 
see MINORITY, page 3 


r----------------.-.--.---------~----------------------------~--------------~--~~------~----------------·--~---­
The Observer 



In Brief 
In two separate rallies, more than 900 Brown Uni­versity students protested institutional racism at that school. The first rally was organized by the 'Ibird World Center, but a later rally drew 600 studens, most of them white, to voice support for Third World concerns. A student newspaper survey showed 81.6 Jlercent of the students believe complaints about racism at Brown are jus­tified, and that the university is too lenient in handling acts of violence against lbird World students. -The Observer 
An elephant-shaped balloon took the prime 
minister of Malaysia to an unscheduled stop along a highway today, with security officials in hot pursuit. Malcolm Forbes, American publisher and editor-in-chiefof"Forbes" magazine, took Prime Mini­ster Mahathir Mohamad for a short ride in the balloon. After I 5 minutes, the wind shifted and the hot-air balloon landed a quarter of a mile away beside a highway rather than returning to the field, Malaysian officials said. When they saw the balloon straying off its plannt:d route, the prime minister's security guards scrambled into police cars and sped to the highway, where a massive traffic jam had developed. Ambulances raced to the scene. However, the prime minister left the balloon safely with a big smile, and went home. -AP 
Of Interest 
A medical advisory has been issued by the Student Health Center. lbose who have been in contact with Mark Maloney, a Stanford Hall sophomore with meningococcal meningitis who as of last night was in guarded condition in intensive care, should con­sidt·r the following to determine if they require preventative medication. Medication is indicated ifsomeone within the last seven to I 0 days ha.~ had prolonged contact, in the immediate presence of the infected person, for a significant part of the day. Medication is also indicated if someone has had intimate contact with Maloney. It is not indicated if someone has had only casual contact with Maloney, such as short visits in the same room. Medication is available at the Student Health Center. Those having questions are 
urged to contact the Student Health Center in person or by phone at 239-7497. -The Observer 
Senior Month movie nightwill be held tonight at the Boiler House Theatre in the I00 Center, Mishawaka. Showtime is 9:30 and admission is S2. Tickets can be purchased today from II a.m. until 2 p.m. in the lobby of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
The SchillerInstitute will show a videotape on the International Monetary Fund's effect on Third World countries at 
7:30 tonight at LaFortune Student "!beater. An update on world hunger problems will also be given. -The Observer 
The Student Activities Board, Student Govern­ment. and the senior, junior, and sophomore classes have formed a committee which will be organizing weekly social events during the next four years. Tonight, members of this committee will be in the dining halls during dinner to take suggestions from the student body as to what type ofentertainment should be offered and what the new program should be named. Events will include comedy acts, bands, dances, shows, movies and dinners. -The Observer 

Weather 
' 
Why flOW( With finals looming on the horizon, many would prefer it to rain so they could have an excuse for staying inside and studying. Unfortunately, it will be partly sunny today with a high in the mid 60s._ Northeast wind around I 0 mph. Clear and cool tonight with a low in the mid 40s. Mostly sunny and seasonably pleasant tomorrow with a high in the upper 60s. -AP 

The Observer 
n.., 0'-"'rnr (liSPS "i99 l-4000) is pul>llsh<"d Monday through Friday and on hom<" football Saturdays, nc<"pt during rxam and vacation P<'riods. Thl" Obeoervl"r is publishc:d by the: studl"nts of thr llnlv.-nity of Notr<" Dam.-and Saint Mary's CoU.-g.-. Sub!K:rlptions may he: purcha...-d for BO P<'r y.-ar ( HO P<'r·~­m.-st.-r) by writing Thl" Obeoerv.-r, P.O 
Box Q. Notrl" Dam.-. Indiana 46~~6. 
1"hl" Obeoerv<"r Is • m.-mhc:r of Thl" 
AMoclakd !'nM. All r.-production 
righl5 ar.-~scrnd. 
T()(Jay'b i!'lsuc wab produced by: 
1Jeslg11 Editor......................... Chris Bowler 1Jeslg11 Assista11t ........... Mark McLaughlin Typese/lers .....J~nnifcr Bit~ott, Mary Ell~n HarrinRlon, Tracy BrinRardner Neu•s Editor ...................... Mary ll~ilcmann Copy Editor ...................... Mark Pankow,ki Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Vleupoint Copy Editor......... Cindy Boyle Vieupoi11t Layout............... Priscilla Karl~ 
Features Copy Editor............... Tim Adams Features Layout............................ Tom Hall ND Day Editor ......................Alice Gromer SMC Day Editor............... Toni Ruth~rford Ad Deslg11 .....Anna Marie Furleigh, Kathy 
Krenztor Photographer ............................ Phil lk~t~r 
Thursday, May 2, 1985-page 2 



Announcing the first annual Goofus and Gallant awards 
Goofus and Gallant taught me a lot about life. 
They didn't waste time with trivialities, n'lind you, 
Goofus and Gallant taught me the really important 
things in life, like not eating sweets before dinner. 
For those unfamiliar with Goofus and Gallant, they 
are two characters in the magazine for children, 
"Highlights." Each month they demonstrate the good 
way to do things, and the bad way. 
Gallant is the good one. He always makes his bed, 
washes the dishes, and shares his toys. Goofus is the bad 
one. Ht; never makes his bed, washes the dishes, or 
shares his toys. 
In honor of these two inspiring characters, I have named an award after each, and am presenting the awards to those most deserving of them. 
Here, then, are the 1984-85 Goofus and Gallant awards. 
A Gallant award to Jeff Anhut. Anhut, the guy who went crazy every time the band struck up the song "Wipe out," turned ot­herwise boring time-outs into miniature pep rallies. 
A Goofus award to those who threw oranges at the beginning of the Syracuse game. Not only did the oranges splatter all over the court disrupting play, but they succeeded in dampen­ing crowd enthusiasm and hurting the Irish team's momentum at the time. Two words aptly describe this ac­tion: no class. 
A Gallant award to Ann Pettifer. Although many do not agree with her and some 6A~LANT feel her arguments arc ridiculous, few do not read her columns. At a homogeneous school like Notre Dame, different view­points need to be brought out, and Pettifer's columns undoubtably do this. 
AGoofus award to those who wrote to The Observer about abortion, Mario Cuomo, or whether ROTCs should be allowed to play soldier on campus. Few care what a person has to say who is writing in reply to a letter which was in reply to a letter which was in response to a column. 
A Gallant award to the members of the Judicial Council who ruled the Student Senate's term exten­sions unconstitutional. They did what was right despite knowing their action would create more bad publicity for student government, something student govern­ment definitely does not need. 
AGoofus award to the Student Senate. By allowing a ticket that knowingly violated election rules to remain in the race and by extending their terms to pass a new constitution, the senate did about as much for studeRt 


Mark Pankowski 
Copy Editor 

government's credibility in 1985 as Nixon did for the federal government's in I972. 
A Gallant award to the month of December. "Ibis month was so warm and free of snow that it caused many out-of-state freshmen to wonder whether all those legends about South Bend winters were really ex­aggerations. 
AGoofus award to the month ofJanuary. This month was so cold and full of snow that it caused many out-of­state freshmen to wonder whether all those legends 
about South Bend winters were really understate­ments. 
AGallant award to Vince Willis, Aline Gioffre and all those who worked on the Millions Against MS cam­paign. 'Jbey were respon­sible not only for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's win­ning of a free concert, but 

_/ more importantly, they were responsible for raising over .S20,000 to combat a debilitating disea.~e. 
A Goofus award to MTV. Whether MTV claimed a top five act would appear at the winning school or just implied it, the fact remains that MTV found the only 

way to make Notre Dame's victory antidimactic, and to many, slightly disappointing. 
AGallant award to students who work in the dining halls. Wearing funny hats and picking napkins off dirty trays cannot be an easy way to work one's way through school. Whatever they're being paid, those students deserve more. 
AGoofus award to whoever is responsible for theme nights at the dining halls. This Goofus award needs no explanation. 
Well, there you have them, the 1984-85 Goofus and Gallant awards. 
Fortunately, many of the Goofus award winners are making progress toward winning a Gallant award for next year. The senate condemned the proposed in­crease in the student activities fee, MTV awarded Notre Dame student Kevin Herbert a summer internship, and the dining halls did not reorganize the meal lines for its last theme night. 
Gallant would be proud of them. 
The Observer Thursday, May 2, 1985-page 3 

•• I
The Obscrvcr/PhH Deeter

'That's the room I want!' 

Keenan Hall residents Mike Boyle, Mark Boyle, picks. Keenan was one of several residence halls jeff Chou, and Bill Armstrong participate in that conducting room picks for the 1985-86 term last annual dispiay ofmanners andfriendship -room night. 
ham said, "We have to do something. We don't want the ISO to split. If there is not a nullification, this thing 



Election Minority 
continuedfrom page 1 continuedfrom page 1 
won't be resolved." hers' nationalities were not Richard Stickney, another ISO of life is the diversity and dillerent mentioned." Myers lives in Grand member, said, "Mansour and Naomi ways of thinking. We must break Blahc, Mich., but has resided in found out that something was going through the barriers of white is Spain. awry and they feel as if their names right; Catholic is right; and conser­
Eid said he thinks the president of have been violated." vatism is right; and that everything the ISO should be a foreign student. Board member Ricardo Araujo else is wrong," she added. "It is an international group and not said he will consider running for 
The Minority Student Affairsjust a foreign one," but the president president if the election is nullified. 
office at Notre Dame has many or­should be a foreigner because "we "Really the election is not valid," he ganizations for minority students go through things that Jack would said. Araujo pointed out that Griffin at both Notre Dame and Saintnot feel. There's nothing unconstitu­selected neither an election chair­Mary's.
tional about it (an American presi­man nor an election committee as 

dent), it's just a feeling." deemed necessary by the constitu­Among these is the Black Cul­Durham was born in the United tion. "Right there," said Araujo, "it's tural Arts Festival which was States, but now lives in Uruguay. unconstitutional and invalid." headed by Greg Martin this year, a DeMello said it would be "an asset Griffin could not be reached last senior finance and philosophy to have an American as president. night for comment. major. Martin explained the group We have been trying to draw "I feel sorry for Jack," Araujo con­is dedicated to showcasing Black Americans in and make them aware, tinued. "We are not against him but American talent to the university share our culture. We want to against the way he became presi­and community. He said that both overcome the barrier and let dent. It was basically a dictatorship Notre Dame and Saint Mary's par­Americans share with us." and I come from a country familiar ticipated in the festival which was 
Regarding the controversy, Dur-with dictatorship." held in February. 


'Over-copulation' cited as problem 
ByJANE ANNE RIEDFORD link in over 30 countries has News Staff solidified this belief. Referring to the low West German 
Today's society does not suffer birthrate, Marx quipped, "If you from overpopuhition, it suffers from don't like Germans, I've got good over-copulation, at least according news for you, they're dying off fast," to Father Paul Marx, speaking last bringing a laugh from the audience night on contraception and abor­of approximately 100 people at the tion. 7:30 p.m. lecture in the library 
"Once you want to have sex for auditorium. 
fun, other people will too," said "Once you relax laws (on abor· 
Marx who suggested that the wide tion), it just becomes another form 
variety and availability ofcontracep­of birth control, and you can't find a 
tion led to sexual promiscuity. country with contraception and a 
The "Why not?" attitude, charac­nice birth rate," Marx said, sum­
terized by irresponsible sexual marizing his comments about abor­activity, he explained, inevitably tion and contraception around the leads to more pregnancies, abor­world. tions, single-parent families, oc­The alternative to contraception curance of venereal disease, and, is natural family planning, in which eventually, sterile women. He the couple values their fertility in­clarified the latter by citing ex­stead of cursing it by using con­amples of women who become traception, he said, adding, "Why is sterile after having abortions. it that God made the human female 
"As soon as you have contracep­so infertile?" tion in any country, abortion will fol­Marx, a professor of sociology at low as surely as morning follows Minnesota's Saint John's University, night," he said. is known around the world as a pro­
As both founder and president of life supporter and for his best-seller 
Human Life International, Marx "The Death Peddlers: War on the 
believes that the link between con­Unborn." His lecture was sponsored 
traception and abortion is absolute, by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
and his experience observing this Right to Life organization. 
SMC announces plans 
By SHANNON OAKES board at Saint Mary's to be installed StaffReporter next year. A possible meal plan at Saint 
Students will get a chance to say Mary's is under consideration. Ac­good-bye to Saint Mary's President cording to the boards, many con­John Duggan at a candlelight buffet flicts exist with this procedure and it May 9 in the College's dining hall, is under scrutiny. announced the Saint Mary's Board of Plans announced by the boards, Governance and Programming for next semester include a beautiful Board after a joint meeting. room contest possibly within the 
At the buffet Duggan will receive a first two weeks of school. A used gift of appreciation for his many furniture sale also is being planned years of service to Saint Mary's and for either the beginning of next year the students. or the end of next year. Details, 
Other information relayed at the however, have not yet been meeting included plans for a rider finalized. 



GNEUSnME 
TO REPAY YOUR LOAN. 
If you've gone to college on a National Direct Student Loan, a Guar~ an teed Student Loan or a Federally Insured Student Loan made after October 1, 1975, and your loan is not in default, here's a way to get your loan repaid. 
Use the Army's Loan Repayment program. Each year you serve on active duty reduces your indebtedness by one~ third or $1,500, whichever amount is greater. In a three~year enlistment, you eliminate your debt. 
Additionally, you could learn a valuable skill and take advantage of many other Army opportunities. If you have the time, we have the money. 
Check it out with your Army Re~ cruiter. 
SGTBrennan 234-4187 

ARMY. BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
DePaul University 

School of Accountancy 
Review Course for the November 1985 ., 

CPA Examination 
June 17-0ctober 28, 1985 
The 59th DePaul University CPA Review is now accepting enrollments for the Summer 1985 Review. The Review features live classroom·instruction, an all-CPA/all-professor faculty, convenient location and session options, and special repeat tuitions. The Review has an open admission policy. 
The last 58 reviews maintained: 
•70% or over pass/condition rate •over 85 medals and awards (statewide and nationwide) 
NO review can match the coverage, the instruction, the faculty and the experience of the DePaul CPA Review Course. For information call 
(312) 341-8640.  
DePaul University  Monday, Wednesday,  
25 E. Jackson Blvd.  Friday, 6-9 p.m.  
(Wabash & Jackson)  Tuesday, Thursday, 6-9 p.m.  
Chicago  Saturday, 9-12 Noon  

q-,DePaulUniversity 
r-------------------------------,
School of Accountancy DePaul University 25 E. Jackson Boulevard Chicago, Illinois 60604 

Please send me a brochureandadmission from the DePaul University CPA Review Course. Name ______________________________________________ 
Address __________________________________________ 
City ______________________ State __Zip---------­
---~---------------------------­

The Observer Thursday, May 2, 1985-page 4 
g 
~ 
..., 
~ 
:;);' 
~,;. 
f 

if 
l 
'So this is Bonn, Ron' 
President Reagan and his wife Nancy are followed by Arthur Burns, U.S. ambassador to Borm, yesterday as the presidential couple arrir,ed in Germanyfor a state visitand to attend the World Ecommzic Summit. 

Anti-government riots mark May Day in Polish cities 
As..'iociated Press 

WARSAW, Poland -Thousands of rock-throwing demonstrators battled riot police in Gdansk yester­day, and an estimated IS,OOO Solidarity supporters staged a two­hour peaceful May Day march in Warsaw to protest food price hikes and political arrests. 
About SOO Solidarity activists chanting "Solidarity" and "Lech Walesa" forced their way into the of­tidal government May Day parade in Gdansk. They interrupted the parade for I 0 minutes by sitting down in the road before being routed by baton-wielding police units. 
Almost a mile from the parade routl\ an estimated 2,000 to 3,000 mostly young demonstrators gat­hered near the former Solidarity headquarters and hurled stones ripped from the streets at a column of helmeted riot police, Western reporters said. 
'!be police initially showed restraint bur then charged with barons and shields and used water 
cannon and tear gas to disperse the 
crowd. Several demonstrators and 
police were injured. 

One member of the riot police was beaten ro the ground by demonstrators and taken away in an ambulance. A protester who ap­parently threw a rock at a police vehicle was rammed by a police car and then beaten by riot squads. The protester was taken away by am­bulance. 
Scores of demonstrators were ar­rested in the clash, which lasted over an hour and left the street lit­tered with stones and debris. 
Solidarity leader Walesa at­tempted ro join the government parade in Gdansk but returned home when his way was blocked by hundreds ofriot police. "We have no intention of getting into tights," he said. "It's a shame that someone divides us so brutally." 
In Warsaw, an estimated IS,OOO people chanting Solidarity slogans and carrying Solidarity banners marched past cordons of riot police in a two-hour demonstration before dispersing. 

..cctQowetrg fptr aQQ occag[ong." 
Comein and Browse 317 Lincolnway 232-3354 
THE EARLY.~ BIRD... --~­ 
Classes starting May 12  
.7 GMAT C1~l DlyS Eveninas & Weekends ·~~ 1717 E.So.Bend cA. Educational Center 2 7 2·4135  





Reagan's Nicaraguan sanctions cause dissent among congressmen 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan's decision to impose trade sanctions against Nicaragua won general praise from Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., and others on Capitol Hill yesterday, but critics said the move will drive the leftist Sandinista government even farther into the Soviet camp. 
Lugar, chai1rman of the Foreign Relations Committee, was quoted by an aide as saying the measures are "an important step," but not a com­prehensive policy toward Central America. 
"It's about time," Senate Majority Robert Dole said of Reagan's action. "I hope it's effective." 
Sen. Uoyd Bentsen of Texas, one of a group of Democrats previously urging sanctions, said the embargo "can help persuade those in power in Managua to send home the 2,500 to 3,500 Cuban and Soviet military advisers now in that country and to stop supporting armed insurgents against their neighbors." 
Bentsen and others said Reagan should persuade nations both in and 
AI.LIED 
SHIPPING 
Air& UPS 
219.277-7616 
We padc and Ship 
HOURS: 9-6 Mon-Fri 9-1 Sat 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS 
SR23 
out of Latin America to join the United States in limiting or dropping trade with Nicaragua. 
But there was sharp criticism for Reagan from a number of House members and senators who said in­stead ofencouraging the Sandinistas to negotiate an end to the civil war in Nicaragua, it will encourage them to become another communist Cuba. 
Last week, Congress refused in a highly-emotional battle to release Sl4 million Reagan had sought to help the rightist Contras seeking the overthrow of the Sandinistas. 
Men's Hair Styling at its finest (minutes from campus) 

Sen. David Ourenberger, R-Minn., chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said the embargo is "a plus rather than a minus. But it's nowhere near being an essential part of the policy that should be imple­mented, particularly when it's done unilaterally." 
Durenberger quoted intelligence officials who told the committee a week ago that the sanctions would have little. practical impact on the troubled Nicaraguan economy. 
"It wouldn't have done that much good or we would have done it al­ready," Durenberger said. 
Voting for Senior Fellowship Award 
Today and Tomorrow 11am -1pm 
I 
fli1 OBUD d k L F, rt L bb W!J 
~ 

T~ke _a tablet. Get aian, Welcome it~the >1980's. In today'.s society. a tan makes you .• _.. l(lt)Kand· feel mqresucc;e~ful.en~rgetic, a.nd sexy! Originally introduced and .approved 
•·Jo .lij1Jrppe and canada for •tanq~ng purpbses. by the Canadian equivalent .. of the Food 
.. and .Drug. Administration, JOO% safer (}rganJc canth<\Xanthln tablets have ·given· milllons of people deep, rich, and l'laturaltans. TW9 30 m.g. canth~nUifn tablets, taken twice daily tortwenty days•. produce ab­solutely safe; wonderfultans for eyeryone using them. Two tablets daily thereafter. qlalntainyourtao. w0; 
111tJ tJse of canthaxa ~s.ftdfy cOtPDaU.ble with SUO• t)attting ·or ultravi · · · · · · · · deeper and 
darket color than can til~ sun .or canthaxanthin alone; Usu~l 
Pl'fl are advisa· ble Wlth sun exposure~ ··. 

·· Durk Pearson, author Scientific Approacn:: st.. ln)1fs book~ "Canthax" anthin, taken over aperiod of time will yield abeau­tiful bronze color to the skin that looks like a sun tan ... [Canthaxanthin) is ared pigment found in cer­tain edible mushrooms, shellfish, and flamingo feathers.'' This product is guaranteed to be .absolutely harm­less to your health. Canthaxanthin is used extensively in foods you eat and is approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration as a food ooloring 
agent. 100 BEAUTIFUL TAN tablets $29,95· $54.95. Indiana residents add 5% refund if not satisfied! Visa and MasterCard orders ONLY call: 
219-236-5829 
01 m-~d check ()r mon"y order to: 
AR Otders shipped U.P.S. within 48 hou1'$ Allow 14 day delivery !or clw<:k$ Product literature endo$00 with ~ach order 


The Observer Thursday, May 2, 1985-page 5 



Arrests mount as students at Berkeley protest apartheid 


Africa 
continuedfrom page 1 
tee and are members of the Anti­Apartheid Network. 
Dettling said he considered the possible conflict of interest that he might experience because the stu­dent government committee was designed to study the University's 
By MIRIAM HILL 
Copy Editor 
Two hundred and seventy-one people have been arrested at the University of California at Berkeley in the past three weeks as students, faculty and Berkeley residents con­tinue to protest the university's in­vestments in South Africa. 
Between 200 and 500 people have staged a sit-in on the steps of Sproul Hall, an administration build­ing, since Thursday April II. The protesters have been sleeping on mattresses outside the building. 
The sit-in arose spontaneously after an April I 0 rally when 50 people refused to move from Sproul Hall until the university's Board of Regents agrees to listen to the protesters demands, which include complete and immediate divest­ment ofall university funds invested in South Africa. 
Berkeley has approximately $1.7 billion invested in companies with holding in South Africa, according to protester Howard Pinderhughes. 
The protesters also demanded that a public hearing be held to al­low community members to con­tribute their opinions to a report on divestment to be submitted to the regents. 
In addition, the protesters re­quired that the report be studied at the May 16-17 meeting of the Board ofRegents rather than at theJune 21 meeting as is currently planned. 

On April 16, Berkeley police stormed Sproul Hall and arrested 136protesters, including 17 student government members. One policeman was injured when a resisting protester bit him on the hand. 
"I'm missing all of my classes and I'm prepared to be arrested if that is what it takes to show how wrong it is to support white supremacy practices," said senior Richard Mel­nick. 
An additional 135 protesters have been arrested in the past two weeks, and the protesters added an addi­tional demand that all charges against those arrested be dropped, Pinderhughes said. 
Rallies for divestment are at­tended every day at noon by up to 7000 people outside of Sproul Hall, Pinderhughes added. 
Pinderhughes said the student protesters have received strongsup­port from faculty at the university and from Berkeley city council 
Please call 284-4626 for reservation!. and information 

NEW SCHEDULE 
EFFECTIVE APRIL zs, 198§ 
Travel United Umo to U from Chicago's O'Hare 
LEAVE  lEAVE  ARRIVE  ARRIVE  
NOTRE  MICHIANA  MICHIANA  NOTRE  
DAME  REGIONAl  REGIONAL  DAME  
BUS  AIRPORT  ARRIVE  LEAVE  AIRPORT  BUS  
SHELTER  SOUTH BEND  o·HARE  o·HARE  SOUTH BEND  SHELTER  
3.20 1m  3 40 1.m  6·00 l.m  8.30 1.m  10·50 1m  11 05 1m  
5,20 1m  5:40 1.m  aoo 1.m  1030 1.m  1150 p m  I 05 p.m  
7:20 1m  740 J.m  10 00 1.m  12·30 p m  2·50 p m  3 05 p m  
9:201 m  940 1.m  12 00 pm  2 30 p m  4 50 p m  5 05 p m  
IUD om  11:40 1.m  100 pm  4 30 pm  6 50 p m  105 p m  
1.20 pm  I 40 p m  400 pm  B30 p m  8 50 p m  9 05 p m  
310 p.m  3 40 p m  6·00 pm  8 30 p m  10.50 p.m  I I 05 p m  
5,10 p.m  5 40 p.m.  8 DO pm  10 30 pm  12 50 1m  105 1m  
HOpm  7 40 p m  10 00 p.nt  12 301m  2 50 1m  3 05 1m  

All ARRIVAlS AND DEPARTURES ON lOCAl TIME. CALL FOR COMPlETE liST Of PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS (219) 674-6993 OR CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT 

members, many ofwhom have been arrested. Berkeley mayor Gus New­port will speak in support of the protesters at a rally in front of Uni­versity Hall this Monday. City businessmen have donated food to the protesters who have pitched camp outside Sproul Hall. 
There is some speculation that Nobel Peace Prize winner Bishop Desmond Tutu will stop at the uni­versity when he visits California from May II to 13. 
The idea for the sit-in at Berkeley was sparked by a sit-in by students at Columbia University which began on April 4 and ended after three weeks last Friday. The students were demanding that the university divest itself of $32.5 million in indirect in­vestments in South Africa. 
On April 4, 20 Columbia students padlocked the doors to Hamilton Hall, an administration and clas­sroom building, forcing students and faculty to resort to an under­ground tunnel to gain access to the building. 
The Columbia sit-in "began as 20 people who were going to sit for three hours, but then more and more people came to support it," said Tanaquil Jones, leader of the Columbia Coalition for a Free South Africa. 
Bishop Tutu telephoned the protesters from his home in Johan· nesberg on April 11 to praise them for taking a stand on the issue of apartheid. Tutu thanked the stu­dents "on behalf' of the victims of apartheid, said protest leader Daniga Bolyii. 
Jesse Jackson and Gary Hart also lent their support to the protesters. 
The average number of people participating in the sit-in ranged from 75 to 250 with approximately 300 to 400 people showing up for daily rallies, according to Anne Kornhauser, editor·in-chief of the Columbia student newspaper. 
Jones said the recent violence in South Africa along with a decision by the university's Board of Trustees not to divest itself of investments in South Africa prompted students to stage a sit-in. 

investments in an impartial manner, while the Netwdrk already has proposed specific changes in the in­vestment policy. Dettling said, however, that it is difficult to remain completely neutral on such a volatile issue. 
According to Dettling, the com­mittee agrees with the changes recommended by the Network. 
He said the two organizations are "not bound to each other. We can disagree and we can leave the (Network)." 
Baccanari said student govern· ment and the Network are two in­dependent groups fighting for the same cause. 
"(The two organizations) are like the army and the navy, they're fight­ing for the same thing, but they're separate bodies," he said. 


REFRIGERATOR RETURN 
All refrigerators rented from S.A.B. must be returned to: 
STEPAN CENTER SUNDAY, MAYS 1:00-5:00 p.m. 
Refrigerators must be cleaned and defrosted before deposit will be returned. 
Sponsored by Services Commission of your Student Activities Board 



~i~~~_()__i_ll__t__________________
Th-ur-sda-y,_Ma-y2-,l-98_5_p_ag-e6 
Enforced silence at ND protest was unfortunate 
Tuesday, I lost some of my respect for the University of Notre Dame, the Notre Dame Law School and the principles ofopen debate and justice that they claim to espouse. That day, the right of students here to peacefully protest and to present views contrary to those 
Kristian Anderson guest column 
of an invited speaker was denied. That day, 
open debate was replaced by enforced 
silence. 
Harsh words, indeed, but words I think are 
fitting because ofwhat took place. 
When it was announced that William]. Ben­nett, secretary of education, was to receive the Thomas ]. White Educator of the Year Award, numerous students were outraged and decided to protest his visit to the Law School. Their protests were carried on in a spirit of open debate and education. Signs were put up around the Law School citing various state· ments Bennett had said on such topics as stu· dent loans for college. These signs questioned the choice of Bennett as "Educator of the Year." 
These signs and messages on the black· boards of the classrooms asked students to at· tend Bennett's speech and to listen to what he had to say. They also encouraged the audience to "clap only ifyou mean it." None ofthe signs called for any open clashes or disruptions during Bennett's visit or speech. 
Along with these messages, several students arranged for a protest march outside of the Law School prior to the speech. This protest was to continue inside the lounge during the speech· not in a disruptive manner, but rather by having the protesters simplysit quietly dis­playing their signs. 
Unfortunately, these protests did not go on as planned. Signs which had been around the Law School for a couple ofdays were suddenly ripped down. Ripped down not because they were posted where they should not have been · they were either by announcements of the speech, or were in places where other such announcements have been placed -but be· cause ofwhat they said. As well, students who attempted to put up new signs in the lounge prior to the speech were stopped from doing so. 
Outside of the Law School, campus security asked the protesters to keep down their chanting, so as not to disrupt classes. This re­quest came just four days after Law School classes had to continue while loud music was played, and loud speakers were used on the 
South Quad during An Tostal. As well, campus 
security prohibited these students from bring­
ing their signs into the lounge for the speech. 
The students were told that the Law School 
did not want to be discourteous to Bennett. 
The speech, and the rest of the protest then 
want on as planned. Bennett spoke. The 
protesters listened. There were no disrup­
tions. There were no denunciations. There 
were just thoughtful questions during the al­
lotted question period after the speech. 
I did not actively take part in any of these 
protests, but I fully supported my fellow stu­
dents in their efforts to bring open debate on 
an issue to Notre Dame and the Law School. I 
felt proud that my classmates felt strongly 
enough on an issue to protest and to attempt 
to educate others about their concerns. I also 
felt proud that they had not called for a dis­
ruptive protest, but for a quiet, thoughtful 
protest. They did not want to stop Bennett 
from speaking; they wanted him to be heard. 
But they also wanted their views to be heard. 
Unfortunately, the protestor's views were 
not treated with the same respect they gave 
Bennett's views. His views were allowed to be 
heard. Their views were suppressed, just at 
the time when starting them would have had 
the greatest impact. 
During my three years at the Law School., I have been told how important it is to be so­cially aware. I have been told that we were being trained not to be hired guns, but rather to be lawyers who are concerned with people and concerned with issues. I was told that Notre Dame lawyers were different because of their concerns about important matters. Why, then, when students show their concern about an issue are they prevented from fully expressing that concern? How are they to go forth into the world and speak for those who cannot speak for themselves when they are not allowed to speak here? How is open debate, and the search for what is right and just in our society furthered by what hap­pened here today? 
I want to believe that the University and the Law School believe in open debate. I find it hard to believe that after Tuesday's events. I hope that in the future, reasoned, reasonable debate and protest are not denied here again. 
I do not want to point a finger at anyone. I just hope that everyone -students, ad­ministrators, protesters -will learn a lesson from Tuesday's events. I also hope that open civil debate will continue here at the Law School. 
Kristian Anderson is a third year law stu­dent at Notre Dame. 

Got an .opinion? Share it! 
Viewpoint would like to bearfrom you. Ifyou wouldlilte to n!Spond to something you've 1Wid in The Observer, wby not wrl~ a letter to the editor. Letters should be rw/1-wrlt~n. typed. no more than 250 words in lengib and must bear the sig-ture ofthe author. Letters UJbicb are 110t signed Dy the author will not be pub· 
lisbftl. 
But letters are not tbe only way to voice your opinion in Tbe Observer, Viewpoint also accepts guest columns. Guest columns sbould be well-written, typed, 
Doonesbury 
no more than 500 words tn length and must bear the signature of tbe au10ur. A guest column, unlike letter to tbe editor, sbould notbea direct response to another editorial. 
Botb guest columns and letters to tbe editor can be mailed to The Obsen~er, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or fklivert!d to ettber our Notre Dame office in LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office in Haggar College Center. Please includeyour telephone number. 




Solutions to the crisis of declining ND minorities 
Despite University Director of Admissions Kevin Rooney's assertion that the location of this institution has an adverse effect upon minority applicants because "minorities prefer urban envirornments," it is increas­ingly evident that the University's !ask ofcom­mitment to the plight of black students has 
Lisa M. Boykin 
guest column 

resulted in the dwindling percentage of 
minorities that choose to enroll here annually. 
The Office of Admissions' disorganized at­
t~mpt to recruit minority students for the 
duration of the past two recruiting weekends 
is indicative of the negligent attitude that has 
created a precarious situation for minority 
students. 
A total of 41 black recruits visited the campus on the weekends of April ll-14 and April 25-28. These students did not have an opportunity to meet with any administration or faculty members although one meeting was scheduled with an academic advisor from the Freshman Year ofStudies. This was the extent ofthe contact between the administration and the black recruits. If the administration is going to display such a minimal effort, why did it bother going through the expense ofbring­ing these students to Notre Dame for a visit? 
If Notre Dame is in ·actuality concerned about improving minority recruitment, why was there not a representative from ad­ministration such as Father Hesburgh, Father Joyce, Father Tyson orJohn Goldrick to meet with these students? 
These recruits need professional guidance from the administration to assist them in determining of which institution they will at­tend. As of now, the only source for this in­formation is expected to come from the black students who are currently enrolled at Notre Dame; however, the administration should assume this role since it is uniquely qualified to provide this information. 
Although the Black Cultural Arts Council assists in many capacities in relation to the 
Garry Trudeau 
WCLL, I [}()JffTMR..I<OHL NE&PS He 7() lEUHIM THAT. &V&N!H()()JH 
7H& IV/11?./A/IIStvf:U.fJCF()R£ H/5 
TIM&, THe R£aRJ?5/1(}1(/5/IIJIIIJMNY F!i?E5H·MC£PRIDU/77/Ull?£vta!M5 


recruiting process, the Office of Admissions 
should invest more time in providing an ac· 
curate presentation of academic life to the 
recruits. The administration's failure to do this 
only serves to diminish Notre Dame's appeal 
to minorities. 
To think that more time, effort and money is 
spent on maintaining the grass on the quad 
than is spent on minority recruitment is an ex· 
treme insult to the members ofthe black com­
munity as well as an embarrassing reflection 
upon the University in comparison to other 
institutions which offer minority students bet· 
ter programs. 
Notre Dame needs to once again establish 
its priorities and dedicate itself to this cause, if 
in fact it is committed to it. 
Granted, Hesburgh was at one point 
actively involved in the Civil Rights Move· 
ment of the 1960s; however, now that the 
situation necessitates intervention, Hes­
burgh's inaction suggests that the respon· 
sibility for increasing minority enrollment is 
no longer considered to be a significant issue 
to the administration. 
If the University wants to demonstrate its concern, it should embark upon a mission that would not only increase the number of high caliber minority students at Notre Dame, but in addition would develop a substantial net­work that would assist minorities in the transi· tion to academic and residential life. Furthermore, if this University expects to retain a high minority level, more funds need to be appropriated in an effort to provide greater financial assistance so that students will not have to resort to transterrmg or withdrawing as a result offinancial difficulties. 
By working in conjunction with the Black Cultural Arts Council and other minority groups, the Office of Admissions and the ad­ministration can resolve this crisis ofdecreas­ing minority enrollment; however, failure to take an active part in this problematic situa· tion will result in a continuation of this trend and inevitably a disappearance ofthe minority scholar at Notre Dame. 
Lisa M. Boykin is in the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame and is the vice presi· dent ofthe Black Cultural Arts Council. 
Quote of the day 
"Each individual at Saint Mary's has a task, but no achievement is worth as much as what we discover in each ot­her." 
-john Duggan 
--~-­

"ie~P.~O~i~n_t~--------------------------------------------Th_u_r_sd_a~y-,M~ay_2_,_t_9s_s__~p-a~ge__7 


King Arthur's armor is beginning to lose its shine 
T'was once a proud and mighty empire. Notre Dame, that is. Remember? Remember back in the ol' days when the legend of the empire was known far and wide? The Holy 

Patrick Flood 
irish brawl 
Cross priests might as well have been called the Knights of the Roundtable and Father Hesburgh;Arthur. Really. 
The peculiar thing about it all was that things rarely went wrong within the kingdom. Year after year, the empire was represented by football teams which played for national championships and intelligentsia who were among the most elite in the land. Arthur and the Knights of the Roundtable were full of surprises, too. Why, in 1972 the empire even embraced women. The plebes of the kingdom could hardly believe that one. 

P.O. Box Q  
Tournament organizers  insulted a proud tradition is just downright said they could not help me because their mean. halls held Mass at 10:30 p.m. or even 11:00  Minorities neglected in  
thank all for assistance  •Who are you to criticize U-93's radio p.m. Gibson celebrates Mass in his dorm every programming? If you don't like it, change the Sundayevening at 10:30 p.m. Itreally shocked  the new ND yearbooks  
Dear Editor:  station on your radio! me that he took the time to say Mass for us. He  Dear Editor:  
Often when people look at the success ofan  •Since when are you, or anyone else for that even came back and celebrated Mass with us  I was outraged to see how blacks on this  
event, they tend to forget all the people be­ matter, privy to the decision-making methods again. He is a giving person who truly cares  campus were portrayed in the yearbook. If  
hind the scenes without whom it could not  of Father :Joyce? If you have a specific com­about the students here at Notre Dame.  someone not familiar with the make-up of the  
have run smoothly. Sunday's finals marked the  plaint, which you don't mention in your ar­There are some rectors here who openly  student body were to examine the yearbook,  
conclusion of Bookstore Basketball XIV, but none of it would have been possible without  ticle, I think you should go and see Father admit they cannot relate to the students; these joyce about it before you call his decisions are the ones who hide in air vents to catch  he might get the impression that the only blacks on this campus are those on the basket­ •  
the help and dedication of people like Glenn  ruthless and dumb in public. people breaking parietals. I do not understand  ball court or on the football field. I think this  
Terry and Notre Dame Security, John Mon­ •You are entitled to your opinion, of course. what the "mold" for rectors is, but I do know  portrayal is completely unfair. Blacks are in­ 
haut and his crew at maintenance and, most of  But by making it public, you have insulted that Father Steve Gibson is what a rector  volved in several different aspects of student  
all, the scorekeepers who stood out on the  anyone who every used the LaFortune lobby should be ­a friend.  life and this should be illustrated in the year­ 
courts day after day watching game after  as a place to relax, to study or to meet with Tracy C. Thoman  book. With this sort of misrepresentation in  
game. We feel the tournament was most en­ friends. Notre Dame student  one of the students' major publications, it is  
joyable for all, yet at the same time want  •If you don't like the policies of the Credit  no wonder that Notre Dame has trouble at­ 
people to realize that it never could have hap­pened without the contributions of people  Union, why didn't you take your account el­Duarte is not the propersewhere? I did.  tracting black students. Kenneth Hoefer  
like the aforementioned. Thanks to all. jeffBlumb Gus Herbert Marc Ramirez Carol Cavaliere  •My final argument with you, sir, is, how can choice to deliever talkyou criticize Father Hesburgh for standing up for what he believes? You should merely hope that his efforts are fruitful, otherwise, you may Dear Editor: not be here yourselfto take a stand on an issue As an alumnus and former counselor at  Notre Dame student Professor Storey retires to sadness of students  
MattHanley Suzanne LaCroix  of importance someday. Notre Dame, I am ashamed at the decision to Beaudine, in the time I have known you, award jose Napolean Duarte an honorary  Dear Editor:  
BookstoreXIV Commissioners  you have complained about many things. At degree.  We wish to take this opportunity to express  
times I have comisserated with you, others In 1980, when Duarte was a member of the  our admiration and gratitude to one of the  
Tired of Mike Beaudine  not. I know you will miss complaining about ruling junta ofEl Salvador, government forces all these things, but that is your business. murdered Archbishop Oscar Romero, as well  most outstanding professors ever to teach at this University. This year, William G. Storey,  
and his negative ideas  However, I hope you never need anything as four North American religious women. more from Notre Dame. See you at com­Duarte was the head of El Salvador's ruling mencement. junta from the end of 1980 until 1982, and  professor of Church history, retires. He will certainly be missed by the department of theology, and we will miss him dearly.  
I would like to respond to Michael ).  Cara M. Smith during that time his government's security  Professor Storey taught us how to become  
Beaudine's list of reasons for awaiting gradua­ Lewis Hall forces murdered thousands of civilians. Last  better students as well as better people. He  
tion.  year he was elected president of El Salvador.  taught us how to express our ideas in a clear  
Beaudine, what is your problem? You are about to graduate from one of the finest in­stitutions in the country. You say you are about to enter law school; therefore, I assume  He claims that he has the power he lackedFather Gibson helped before. Yet, massive human rights violations continue. Duarte's government is presentlystudents outside of hall launching an indiscriminate bombing cam­ and concise manner. In teaching Church his­tory, he presented us with both sides of the issues -some things other Church history teachers conveniently would ignore. He  
you had a high level of success during your  paign, which includes white phosphorus, on  believed we should be informed and respon­ 
undergraduate years here. Despite any small  Dear Editor: its own ·Civilian citizens. This campaign has  sibly think through the issues on our own. We  
unpleasantries you may have suffered, you  As liturgical commtsstoner for the off­killed thousands already and displaced more  believe though Notre Dame employs many  
should be quite pleased with yourself and  campus community for the 1984-85 school than 100,000.  teachers, there are few professors of Storey's  
your experience at Notre Dame.  year, I would like to extend my thanks to Fat­ caliber.  
Yet, in the last few weeks of your senior  her Steve Gibson of Carroll Hall for saying Independent I ::nan rights monitoring  We will miss him. During our discussions,  
year, you feel the need to make an incredibly  Mass for us. Getting a priest to come off­groups have verifi~ :1 these attacks and the use  we not only shared amusing anecdotes from  
rude statement aimed at the University and  campus and celebrate Mass at the beginning of of the white phosphorus. All of these actions  the history of the Church, but we also learned  
the people who have contributed to your  the semester was no easy task. I must have violate the Geneva Convention.  the importance of caring for each other,  
future. I admit that Notre Dame is not perfect,  called at least 20 different priests and heard  respecting others' opinions. Storey has done  
of course; there are things that none of us like  every excuse imaginable. Duarte has ignored the appeal of El Sal­ more than just teach us the history of the  
about it. However, in regard to several of the  vador's archbishop, Rivera y Damas, to discon­ Roman Catholic Church, or teach us how to  
reasons you listed the other day, you are  In complete desperation, I went to the tinue the U.S. military aid, which was also the  become better students.  
definitely out of line:  Office ofCampus Ministry to see if they could request ofArchbishop Romero, and instead is  You have become our friend. Thanks.  
•The dining hall should be given credit for  offer me any suggestions. I was given five requesting ever higher levels ofmilitary aid to  Pax et Bonum,  
trying to make the institutional dining ex­ more names, among these was Gibson's. I was pay for the war that has already killed more  joann Moschella  
perience less painful than it already is. Have  told that he was well-liked among the students than 50,000 civilians in the past six years.  Patrick Schwin Gerry Foley  
you ever had the pleasure of dining at any ot­ here -and after talking to him on the phone, I Is this the type of Christianity which ex­ joan Schaefer julie Popham  
her university dining hall? If you had, you  could tdl why. I wanted Mass to be at 9:30 emplifies the teachings of Christ and one  julie Miller Gary Kopycinski  
might appreciate the efforts that Hickey and  p.m. on the following Sunday. After checking which Notre Dame would wish to honor?  Suzanne Suarez Patrick Neary  
his staff make in order to please us.  his schedule, he agreed to come to Campus Father William N. Matthews  Suzanne Berry Heather O'Shea  
•Attacking Gerry Faust by saying that he has  View and say Mass for us. Other priests had Notre Dame alumnus  jackie Bohrer AnnAttea  

The legend ofthe empire grew and grew, as books, magazines and movies focused on the king and his cohorts who could do no wrong. But somewhere up in the great castle Arthur and the Knights of the Roundtable began losing touch with the people. It seemed that Arthur, in his quest to help other empires and other knights, suddenly became aloof. The roundtable began breaking at the seams, as the knights contested one another to replace Ar­thur. Distrust grew rampant and ultimately manifested itself in extremely questionable kingdom policy. The plebes of accepted the rules laid down by the roundtable, though. After all, the empire was still special, and cer­tainly proud and mighty in the eyes of its outside admirers. That was all that really mat­tered anyway since reputation became in­creasingly more important. 
The plebes, to be sure, still relished the status of living under the domain of the kingdom, even if the roundtable was breaking up and no one knew where Arthur had vanished. "Sh ... sh," they would tell one anot­her, "don't let the flaws of our kingdom be known." 

And the plebes could hide the truth for a very, very long time. They became virtuosos of deception in their attempt to maintain the status quo of the kingdom. "Oh yes," they would tell the plebes of other kingdoms, "Arthur is an eminent man and the Knights of the Roundtabe are just extraordinary." For­tunately, life within the kingdom was still bearable and even, at times, still special. There were virtuous local knights who consoled the plebes, taught them the proper way to live and gave the people reason to continue boasting. "Look at our magnificent castle," they would vaunt. "See how its golden spire shines throughout the land?" 
The dark dayfinally arrived, however, when the plebes could lie no more. You see, the dis­trust among the Knights of the Roundtable had reached such high proportions that mac­hination became the rule of the day. Local knights tried all they could to save the kingdom from downfall, but their efforts were futile. Dismissed from the kingdom and ironi­cally told that they were unworthy, the local knights were forced to journey elsewhere. This made the plebes extremely sad because all vestiges of the once proud and mighty empire were now gone. All that remained in the kingdom was jealousy among the knights who were once part of the roundtable and frustration among the plebes who no longer had any knights to lead them. 
And in the end, the plebes could boast no more. Their king had faded into obscurity and the roundtable been broken. The empire, once so proud and mighty, had become just like any other. The legend lived no more. 
Patrick Flood is a junior government major at Notre Dame and is a regular View­point columnist. 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

Edttor-tn-Chtel Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager. Dav1d Stephen1tch 
The Observer is the mdependent newpaper published by the students of the Managmg Ed/lor . Amy Stephan Advert1smg Manager . Anne Cull1gan News Editor Ke1th Hamson Jr Controller. B1ll Hlghducheck
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 

News Ed1tor. Dan McCullough Systems Manager Mark B Johnson
ref~ect the pol1cies of the adm1n1strat1on of either institution. The news is reported as 

Sa1nt Mary's Execut1ve Edlfor Theresa Guanno Product1on Manager John A. Mennell
accurately and as object1vely ~s poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 

Sports Ed1tor. Jeff Blumb 
of a maJOrity of the Ed1torial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column 

Accent Ed1tor Mary Healy present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of ttle V1ewpomt Edt tor Joe Murphy commun1ty. and the free express1on of vary1ng opinions on campus. through letters, Photography Edlfor Peter C Laches IS E:;;ICOuraged Copy Ch1el Frank L1po Founded November 3, 1966 



Accent 


Notre Dame and the Vietnam 
Marc Ramirez 
features staffwriter 


a period of student 
" we: arc: not about to send 
American boys nine: or ten thousand miles away from home to do what Asian boys ought to be: doing for themselves." 
President Lyndrm B. johnson, Oc­tober/964 
Soyou sayyou want a re11olution Well, you knou•, we all want to change the world But when you talk about destrnc­tiun Don't you know thatyou , till count me ou1. john Lennon and Paul MtCart11l'1' 1968 
Perhaps an architect might find some aesthetic value in it, but ot­herwist: it's just a long, black wall that stands out like a blemish on the white motif of the Washington, D.C., monument area. 
The wall stands as a grim reminder of one: of the darkest periods in American history-an era which reached its culmination just 
An...cf Bandits Rob four Students On St. Mary'1 Road 
,::. Now Dome lluclln<a Mre occooted 11 "I""' l;41 .. robbed or obout 54.29. lut nilflt tbout ...._• .-, "'" rwturrun1 to campus on the St. Wary'• 
..::-J-,, B.U Wocke, Hal Smith, and Michael ~II of IIA Alumni Hall, ,..., (olloftd by two ._. lloool typn." from U.S. 31 u they returned 
Jot! llioioo Club mMllnl II St. lobry'L .... Jlllor to lll<h"'' Holy cr-come..ry. tho ~"! lht two pabbed lob<ke (rom behrnd .. and. i 1..._ -lhin1 /wd'" JIIIO h11 ude. llod Thil 
Ill Cht 181 your wolle<a" 
....... .._,. lobck•'• wallot. wluch ... void or .... • 1-.J tho cord IICiion. Hla compenion '-......... from Holdvf'o ...u.t ond 1 Notre ......-,.,. <ontoinlnl $.29 from Smllh. Tho two­..... ~ tho thrH tu U.p WllkJnltoward tho 
...._down lht ompcy walloll. 
ten years ago with the surprisingly 
quick fall of Saigon to the North 
Vietnamese, a time laden with con­
flict, confusion, frustration and 
protest. 
The names of more than 58,000 Americans who died in the only war the United States ever "lost" arc engraved in a sea of commemora­tion that runs forever down the sides of the Memorial. They were the sacrifice this country made in an attempt to enforce its foreign policy of containment, a policy intensified by increasing American interests abroad and geared toward keeping the disease of communism from spreading throughout Europe and Asia. 
Characterized by new forms of music, clothing and heavier in­volvement with drugs, the counter­culture symbolized a release for those disenchanted with the values of the older generation. Music by such artists as Janis Joplin, the Grateful Dead, and Crosby, Stills and Nash lashed out bitterly at the effects of the Vietnam War, and the 

anger and frustration reached its 
peal< in the celebration of 

Woodstock in August 1969. They 
were talkin' 'bout their generation, 
and the time for action, they 
preached, was now. 

The student movement had been the most visible since 1966, and it escalated and reached its peak in mid-1970, when students at Kent State in Columbus, Ohio, called a rally to protest the presence of the National Guard on their campus after the students' burning of d1e ROTC building. Rocks were pelted at the troops, so the troops answered with tear gas and the students dispersed; the Guard followed. At last one detachment of guardsmen found iltself approaching a fence and retreated, while being bombed with rocks from angry students. 
With little warning the guardsmen turned and a single shot was fired. A 13-second fusillade ensued When it was over. nine 
THE, OBSERVERs~ 

November 13, 1967 
100 Deny War Effort At Gen. Johnson's Speech 

Murc th;m 400 penplc gave General Harold K. progress on all fronts." As to the U.S. soldiers thenr 
Juhnsun. Army Ch1cf of StilfL a standing oviltion selves, he was glowing in his praise. The American 
;II Ihe ~.:undu!!.aun of lm l1brary AudJtmtum speech soldaer, accordmg to the General, "1s a worker, a 
f-~Jd.ly n•ght Unwever, 100 nthers stuol.l for" moment 1eacher, and a friend." As General Johnson ~es it 
ut uiC"nt prutut after Sen10r Ball Re1shman had read a "The Amencan sold1er has helped build orphanages 
~~~~~~1 ev:', 111~rm.!ng the Vtetnam War "a barbarous and schools and huspJlals t~ aJiieviate the suffermg oi 
J re. helpless people caught m the path or war." 

. The pruteU, sponsored by the Notre D-o~me-St. Mary'!I Replymg to the Hawks who ask "Why don't we JUSt 
Sludcnls rur Peace. ume at the cunciUSIOn or a speech blast Lhe enemy orr the ma[p?", General Johnson 
wfm;h dcrended the U.S. presence and U.S. act10ns 111 stated "We seek no w1dcr war. We do not have a w1der 
v.etnan~ Retshm.. n's statement read tn part '"We call war. We du nnt stek the deslruct!UII ur the North 
upon General Johnson, and the Adnumstralton he VIetnam regtme." He stressed the I muted scope or u.s. 
reprewnh. tu ~lup the hombmg of North V1etnam obJCCtiVe~ tn Vtetnam, potntmg on one hand Ill the 
•mmedJ.:~tcly and begtn prepaut1ons rur the complete spel"tre or nude<~r war and on the other to the danger cesutlon .or md11ary uperauons... or "s•ttmg adly by" wh1le Commumo;IS take over a 
The General ap~ared unshaken by the protest, nallon. 

remark ana to thC' aud1ence that U.S. wld1er!!. 111 V1etnam The General guve consaderable lime to tracmg the 
are faghtmJ to preKrve the very rtght to da1St'nt whach hiStory or U.S. contamment polic1es in Asta, bearing 
the proltsteu had JUst uercased. down on nsing Red threat. He spoke or the Corn-­
In his lpftCh. General Johnson sought to answer mun1st takeover m Chma, the Korean War, and finaUy 
queahons abou1 the l'eliJOns for and succeu or the U.S. the lndoc.tuna war, stressmg that, as a result of these 
anvolvemcnt m South V1ctnam. As to why we are events, .. Our leaders were struck with the realization 
there, hr maullamed "South Vactnam wanls to refilm that jusl as the communist expans1on had to be stopped 
free or commuruJt tyranny and has asked us to wisl. m Europe it had to be stopped in the Far East -ln Korea 
Our fi!lhtma men are help•ns them meet and destroy and South Vietnam. 

forces t!nlenn& the country hom outside 1ts boundaries, General Johnson concluded with the 1dea that e~ry 
thw ua&Jtma the South V1e1rwneae to curb the lewl p:neralion of Amencans must pay an .. installment" in 
o( YIOiencc so that 1 duly constituted aow:mment can order to protect and defend rreedom. He said ..We are 
IIJWm." pnVIIep:d to enjoy a rreedom that has not been com­
pletely paid for and will.....,r be pa1d lor. We ore buyma 
The Army Clue( of Stoff apoke of worldwide efforu it on the installment plan ..." 

by the Communilll to oub..r1 ond dellroy "the YOU"I. As to United Stoles soldien in Vietnom, the General 
the wltled, and the unpownshtd Rltiona of the alobe.'" uid, .. Our ~rave younJiads in South Vietnam are payinl 
As 10 Vttlnam. he stated emphaucalJy ''The wnple, lhilpnerattons's .mstaJlment on freedom... . 

unvamilhed Iruth ll that South Vlelnam &sunder lltKk The Army Ch1ef of Staff drew a crowd wttich over­
by fotut orpna~d and rmned oulJJde its boundariel. flowed the Library Auditorium, which seats but 300. 
Thai ll no cml war."' Genenl Johnson spoke for 40 minutes, 11\Jwered ques-
Gcneral Johnson was ophmlltic over the results of hons for an additaonal 20, and then rushed lo catch a tho Uruted Stoles m Vtetnom. IIYIIll "We are. maltin& plane. 
$~~1li~~~t;i;~~~~f:~~~t~:~:~~~==~~~1:;~;~*!f::i~~~f:i~tlil~~~*;~]~~~~~1~~~;~:~~~~~~1~~=~j~~~=~:~:1:~:~:::~~~~~~~::~~~=i=~=~~~~~~~~tl~~i*~;~~i~~~i~~~~~~~~i~~t~~~i~~;;~jil;~;i;~lill~;~;1~~;~~~; 
Prof Affronts Hesburgh' s Law Says Halls Are Floating Hotels 
(Jull!lln H11y1WI, pro/~uor ofBioloty, ;1 il prt/tcl in Ktto-umvenaty room, the lault does not rest with the liberal ,.,. Hall nL) panetal hours but 1s a railure of parents, umversity and 
the Church to gu1de the moral and social development 
An open leuer to the Noire Dame fanuly: or the mdividuals involved. 

After rc:adlna fllher Ht:tburah's comments to the stu· The defense of the New Y~rk_ Times e~tor~ must be 
dcnl leadns u reported by The Observer. we feel that criticiZed ror ~raJ reasons. Ftrst, any md1Y1dual who there an ccrtam pomu wtuch can not be ianored: confuses Fr. John CavanauJh with Fr. James Kavanaugh 
Ac:cordJnl to The Qbserwr the Presadent Stated that is 10 rar OUI of COntact with the problems Of the COOttm­he had no nom.c.h (or la-. wtuch don't mean anythma porary Church thai he does not require this form of an ond thot the Iowa and rulel wluc:h we hove should be en-explonation. Secondly, it is difficull lo believe that lhe forc:ed. Surely he iJ a Wire thai many halb on this campus president of any great and contemporary university 
openly and with the knowledfe or the haU odminiJiration could ..... that an invilalion from the students Wll ¥~alate the offtdal parietal houn 1nd drink.in1 rtiUlations. not an invitataon from the university ._If tho studenb~ 111d If he 11 not aWire of this, we 1re witneuinB ~ne of the the student IOYetnment arc not 1n lntecraJ part ot '_he onappoeal 810,. jobs in /wtory; he Jw only lo Vllil one or uni..nity. then the uni¥enity doa not and con nol e~l. 
o1 hollo to observe one or our weekend rloatinl We uk ow -dent how t univeruly can dissoc:iale 11­:::b. .elf from itsstudenu . . reprd to the univenity'a rationole lor nol .Uowinl In conclusion, we muat uk (olbetl fa<eUoullly)
1 

wor::en in the rnidentW halb, the explanation ll unbe--what is ..partici..tion in 1 tension modulated by love'"? 1e bl ludi<roua. Tho foci that "many unmnity off~ To biolopb oware or reproduc:ll.,. proc:eun thiiiOWids c:" ~oprd the hoJJa U 1 ""*''I club" iJ certainly lholr like I --:ription of tho "IOcioJ nporcUIIJons" (eared by peropliw. Howowr, In reality. thHI hollo ore tho home the odmin11tratoon. for thouoando o( yOWIImtR for nine monlhl o( the year. Julian F. Hoyntl The rtliden<41 hollo 11W not 1 club Of I relreol from ewry 120 Koonan HoU 
tloy ure: they 1re tho oa1y rocilltitl oniloble r?.' tho 11~>­den.. 10 entertain ,..... tn relllm pr1VI<Y.Ir ooclol,. Ronold V. Baird ptfet*ionl" occur U 1 reouJI of enterllininl I prl In I 220 KMnln HoU 
students were wounded. 
StudentsJeff Miller, Allison 
Krause, Bill Schroeder and Sandy 
Scheuer were dead. It was May 4, 
I970. 

On a sunny February afternoon in 
1968, three Notre Dame students 
arrived for their scheduled inter­
views at the Career and Placement 
Offices on the second floor of the 
Administration Building. 
When they got there they found 
more than 200 students stationed 
outside the offices, congregated in 
peaceful protest against Dow 
Chemical, which was the chief 
supplier of napalm -a petroleum 

jelly which burned at a temperature 
of 1000 degrees whatever it 
touched -and plastic body bags 
being used in the Vietnam War. No 
one stopped the three from 
meeting their interviewers -the 
crowd simply wanted to express its 
displeasure with Dow's involve­
ment in the war. 
It was a landmark in student 
activism at Notre Dame. according 
to the February 9, 1968, issue of 
lbe Observer. It was "the first time 
a 'radical' demonstration has been 
permitted within the walls of a 
University building." Dean ofStu­
dent.~ FatherJames Riehle had 
refused permission for the: 
demonstration that morning, and 
had threatened that non-students 
involved would be arrested for 
trespassing. 
Despite the warning, a crowd 
began to gather at approximately 
I 2:30p.m. outside the offices. Fif­
teen minutes later, there were 
about 70 demonstrators outside. 
Riehle then addressed the group, and immediately issued an ul­timatum: the University would allow their protest, but not inside the Administration Building, which he termed "a place of business" and "private property" where students had no legal right. The crowd would have to trove. 
Indecision followed, as the group debated whether or not to obey. Suddenly the large brown doors at the main entrance were pulled open and a larger throng of ap­proximately I50 more protesters who had assembled outside flowed into the building. Among them were philosophy instructor Father David Burrell and Peter Michelson of the English department. 
'!be dilemma was settled. lbe demonstrators would remain. In peace. 
"If we're going to have a demonstration for peace," said student Forrest Hainline, "let's malte it a peaceful demonstration." 
"There were a lot ofdecent 
people who loved their country but 
found themselves on the other side 
of the law," explained Burrell, on 
this tenth anniversary of the war's 
end. "But there came a point when 
people watching their TV's finally 
said, 'I've had it.' 
"Here at the University we could malte a case for conscientious ob­jection. But what about the poor kid who's not in college, who thinks he's going over there to fight for his country? The war was being fought on the backs of the poor. That's another reason we were so against it." 
Wednesday, May 7, 1968: At 3 p.m., a demonstration organized on the Main Quad, led by senior Bill Reishman. Reish man proposed marching in rows of three, onto the field where the annual ROTC Presidential Review would be taking place, until they were 

stopped by police or security. He 
instructed them "not to give 
ground in any case." Reishman also 
asked that the demonstrators not 
incite trouble. 
Student Body President Richard Rossie attempted to speak at the microphone. but was denied. "You promised me this wouldn't hap­pen," he told Reish man. 
Senior Ned Buchbinder began to speak w the demonstrators, but was interrupted by Rossie who had pushed his way through the crowd: "I am against the: war in Vietnam and the industrial-military complex like many of you," said Rossie. "But you have no right to obstruct the marching." 
Reishman argued with Rossie, claiming that the protestors were simply respecting their own com­mitments. 
"Why don't you respect theirs?" 
Rossie shot back. 
The demonstration took place a~ 
scheduled, as SOO protestors seated 
themselves on the southwest 
corner of the field, intentionally 
blocking an area through which the 
Corps was scheduled to march and 
forcing them to take a route SO 
yards in front of the reviewing 
stand. 
Approximately 300 of those: 
protesting trespassed onto the fic:ld 
during the ceremonies in front of 
University President Father 
Theodore lksburgl1, Lieutenant 
Gencrall.cwis W. Walt, assistant 
commander of the Marine Corps, 
military men and their families. 
Hesburgh was forced to apologize 
to a perturbed General Walt. 
Following their appearance on 
the field, Rossie again tried to ob­
ject. "You've: proved your point." 
the burly president pleaded. "I 
approve ofyour ideas but 1would 
appreciate it if you left the field." 
The demonstrators sat quietly througl10ut the proceedings, stand­ing and applauding when the: na­tional anthem was played. 
October /5, 1969: National Moratorium Day. The University had given its support to anyone who felt obligated to skip classes, although teachers had to conduct classes for those students wishing to attend. At Rutgers, President Mao;on Gross had given his full support behind the event, as did administrations a[ Georgewwn, Columbia, Cornell, Harvard, Prin­ceton and the University of Chicago. 
A huge Mass was celebrated at the library mall. A few students 

-----·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

ar: 



rest 
hurned their draft cards. The FBI was there, so some were arrested hecause it was a federal offense to do so. 
"Then everyone marched to the ROTC huilding, and people were carrying white crosses draped with hlack cloth," said Father David Tyson, then a seminarian and now University vice president ofstudent affairs. "The crosses had the names of Notre Dame alumni who had died in the war. The group that organized the event stuck the crosses into the ground all around the building." 
May 4, 1970: The Kent State murders were national news, al­though the story ran on page 6 of the May 5 edition ofThe Observer. Students walked out on college campuses across the country in response to the National Guard's action. 
·\.I I'IK4 lla' ·~1 ltmnetu CONTACT 

At Notre Dame. ~tullent~ were restless and confu~n.l. They ~poke of"freezing" their education by walking out in protest as well. 
The Alumni Board was on campus at the time. Members had arranged to stay in the dorms. and they conducted a teach-in cam­paign, attempting to convince the students to stay. 
Chemistry teacher Emil T. Hof­man, now dean of Freshman Year of Studies, sent out a letter to his stu­dents on May 25, 1970, asking that they not "over-react" to the situa­tion and that they consider the importance of the career pursuits which they had chosen. He also at.ldressed the generation gap: 
"Your generation is dissatisfied with the world my generation has hrought to you. Admittedly it is in a sad way, but it is indeed an im­provement on the world that was left to us. My generation, that of your parents, did much to improve man's lot according to the temper and needs ofour time. We did not bring an end to racial prejudice, but we did bring about .legislation and attitudes that provide a beginning. We haven't found a suitable sub­stitute for war, but we did bring about the forum for airing interna­tional differences. Maybe your generation will solve these problems. 
"It seems to me, however, that the chance ofdoing so will be bet­ter if we close the gap and join forces. To do this, we must first learn to trust each other ... A dif­ference cannot be resolved simply by pointing out and emphasizing the shortcomings of the opposition_ We must first establish ourselves 


The Observer Thursday, May 2, 1985-page 10 
WELCOME 
e.. ND ~ ~ 
~ (~ ~~ ~ ..-~~ 
~0~ ~~ -r~ ~ STUDENTS ¥ ~~ ~ ~ tl ~ 
?s~ f• ~ ~ ~ 4t~ ~"'~ 
~.f-r ~ ~~ 
HONDA : • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • II • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • f:Jf::i...~ 
•
• TRUCKS •• 








~\\\ST dftiiU!'I. ~DODGE 
•
•
• 
• ~ CIIITY-IIIE ..... ~ PICKUPS
ECONOMY • CARs ••• 
.i.·:·-!•\ :.• :;t:l : VOLVO 
• ~/"~ ~ ~~ : AMC
• IU\tl • • 
• ·PONTIAC
nEW~USED • 
:TOYOTA



"'''"": • • • • •
GtAC: 

CdA&TAUCK
•



• 
~ lltllcu,., • ~ sus411u 
• Vot· ~~...4,,.
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • eN 
SPECIAL STUDENT FINANCING AVAILABLE THROUGH GMAC 
•SPECIAL INTEREST RATES •READY AVAILABILITY OIF CREDIT •LOW DOWN PAYMENT •NO PAYMENT FOR 90 DAYS 
• 
UDodgoOIIInl 10 Buboru. 4-Dr. 71-­
81 OlDS Blue, <4, 4-&Pd Yellow. 4. 5-spd BrOwn, 6, 5-speed 
e:z o-.. 110 ox 4-Dr. 10 Honde Accord 71Merc:­
CUSTOM CRUISER 
0010. •. 5-opd Brown. 4, 5-spd 81ue. 0. automatic LOADED. AIR 1'1 Dntun 510 Wgn. IOCoroHo LB 7101doll~ Blue. 4. 4--apd. Blue. 4, 5-spd 
White, 8, automatic 
11 CougOf XR7
11 COfOIIo BOMonu
·~999 
White. 4 

Reel, 4, 5-epd Blue. 6, 4-spd Blue e. automat•c .. ~2-11<. 13Cftotlorl 11 Dotouto 210Z 10 D.teun 210Z 11 C~lrce W-von 1984 CAMAROS 
Gray. 4. 4-spd Brown. 4, automatic Gray, 8. automatiC
Blue, 6. automat•c 

18 TO CHOOSE FROM While, 8, automatiC ·-..,-;· Black. 8, automattc Maroon. 8. autbma11c 
NMomeC•rto 13 Con>llo 11 CttaUon ~~U;I.~8~r. 71 Moflbu 
.. C4ftco OT ::rei!...-::., 4-WD ii'~ :~~~~~~·c 10 Cerollo 71TO<OnMG AS:'CH$2500 3: 
Blue. 4. S.lll)d . r.SIO. •~r ll<ue. •. 5-opd No.l200 TOYOTA White, 4, •-spd. Sliver. 4, 5-spd 1Gokt. autOIT'Iahc. lOad~ 
12f·110 XL

lfC-U Ma:daiH. 2-0r. t1 c..tc. IOf-Wgn. 71-.4-00« 
SrO'M'I. 6, 4-tpHd UD-210 s· BOX. HEAVY-DUTY BATTERY. &Ner. 8. automatiC 
Whtte. 6. automatiC PICKUP Brown. 4, automat.c erown, 6, automatic Maroon. tl;, 8uton1BIIC, loaded 
..c ........ ~au~ 11a.-L....... IOFofrmonl 7llllogol Brown. 6. automaltc ~ue. I. AUtomMtC: Blue. 4. automatic Brown, 8, a.tomafle: M c.tlce QT 11c-.e-or. 71Trt~n~AM
HEAVY·DUTY GENERATOR, :,~u=IIC 11 C·10 a.,onno13-­4-SPEED, 1400-<.B. PAYlOAD YellOw. 8, automatiC
Bfue. 4. 5--apd Biue. &, ,_opd. Blue. 6, automatiC White, automatiC: Silver. a. automatic 
110MC-11

M c.rnaro 81 Toyolll Coroll• 10 Corollo Wgn. 71 o.loun 1110
nc-Btuo,e.:!-­
Blue, 6. eutotnat.c Brown. 8. autOtNWc. toadecl 4. 5-llj)d Sliver. 4, automattt. &t-own, 4, 4-apc;S
'5995 

TODAY ISlAST DAY OF SALE 9a~~~usk 
..c-o u c.toe. 4-0<. IOO.,...OoT-l't ......... 4-00« ttlo;o.,iUI
Sltver. e. automat•c 78DATSUN 11 Corolla, J-Gr. Yellow. 4. 5-tpd
-.a....-Roo, •. 4-ood. · Uaroon. 8, outomotk: ll<ue.5-­
.. c-o 
13~.1-11<. B·210 71-c:.-10 Ootoun loftlbod
11 C1lotlon, 4-0r. ..c-a-D<. UT-Wgn. AUTOMATIC lntge, automatiC Gold. 8. automatiC 71T-IOf-110 
Brown. IS, automaftC Black. 4, autom8be toaoea • 7101do~ Black, 8, automatiC Yllftow.•• 5-_ 
6. eutoma1JC Blue, 4. 5-lpd White, 8, automatiC Brown. 8. automahC 
..C.,,IIo, 4-0<. u Corolla, 4-0<. 11-4-0<. 
Gold.•. 4-opd. 11-W-100­
'999

Orange. 4. 5-spd Blue. 4, 5-apd Maroon. 8, automatiC
11 lllogol. J-11<. Yellow. 4. 4-apeed
..c-uCelc:oloriJ 71 Coprloe, 4-00«
a~.2-0r. 
Maroon. 4. 4·8Pd 4. 5-llj)d o"""· e. eutomat1c

~~utomat1c Sttvet. 8, ~omatle 113~1 u~.4-Dr. 
11T-=~t::... 
o,..n, a. euromat1c. k)aded 71-71C·11
81acll.. IS. eutOmatte SltYer. 6. automabC Brown. 6, automatic
11.._Wgrl. Yellow. 8. l.utomattc 
a~&upr.

..a...v-~~'J".C:'c \Ntute. 8. automatiC 1985 CAVALIERS 71c_,w-71T-'"c-
Stlvet", 4, 4-apc:l IIIYe.•• 5-llj)d Blue. IS. avtoi'T'Iatle Beige, 8, automatiC Whrte.•• 4-speed
UC-4-0r. 11 c-lio OVEA 10 IN STOCK.
13Eoc:or1W... a-. 77No¥o, 4-00« Btue. 4. eutornattc Black, 4, ButomatK: Blue. 6, 5--SfXI • I08deO Srtver, 6. automatiC
Red. 4, 5-IPd 71C·10 ...c-12 o_., 4-()r. 
t1 COfOIIo Wgn. ?l~rt:loma11C
lfC.10­
:0'6988
StiVer. e. automatiC Blue. ~tomat.c Red. •. 5-opd
13-­

8. automatic Aed, 4, 5-epMCI ..
........ .._4-0r ~~~· Mnomattc 12 eo.-4-()r. 11~ WHILE SUPPLY LASTS F·110 Cuelom
811tek. 4. eutornat•c

wtute. 8., .-utomatle' Maroon. "'· 1Ul0fn8ttc Silver. 4. ~lomlttc U% FIIIAIICII8 TIIIU, API. 3G. Ll Brown. 6. 4-IJ)ee<l 71­
Sitvef'. 8. 3-sPMd 

ft\££1 THE LOAN FAMOUS FOR FINANCING GREAT 
POPCORN ARRANGER ~~fo?fIL~~\ MUSIC
FR E E POP & 
83~,1-tk 190mN024 •• Toyot. btra CMI

81 at.Uon. 2-0r ....__ 78 CHEVY
M81'oon. 4. 5-speed
Brown. 6. avtomatK Black. 4. automatic
Slue. automattc

13T-.2-Il<. ., Corollo. 2-11<. 11eua......._ '12·TON PICKUP 
Brown 8. automatoc liZT-.4-0<. 11 Omni 024 71~ 
Wtltte. 6. 5-spd Brown. 4, 5-8Pd Brown. 8. &utoma:IK: 
~ U C·10 8coltodofo Blue. 8. automat"
Red. 4, 5-&pd TRUCKS White, 4. automalo( Blue. 8. automatk: 11499 
U So-.. Wgn. OLC 10 Cltollon. 4-0r 11T·INrd ""-"
FROM 8·10 PICKUPS A BlAZERS 

Blue. 6 4-lf)Md 71C·10 TO ONE·TON DOOl.EYB 13 &-10 Black. 8 automahc 4 5-opd 
Blue. 4. 4-spd ~rQ· 8, 8ut01tnatoc 12~4-0r. IICIImpofa, 2-0r. Blue. 8 automatlc. kJddeu Brown. 8, automahc Blue. 4 4-speed
12 Z·21 Blue. 6. 5-tpeed 
s• T..,....

TERCEL 12 Creeekl. Aeo. 8. 4-8Pd 8110....1'11• 71 C4ftco OT 12-C·>O Brown. 6. automat1c Tnn!WNte. 8. autornatte Gokl. 4. 5--speea Red 6.:!-­::~t:v~~"3-DOOR LIFTBACK 12 E8COrt, •-Dr. ··~ 611-210 71 Aotgof Cp IZ.,_KingCOI>
Sltver. 4. autotnal'tc Blue. 8. M.ttomattc 4-SPEED. HEAVY-DUTY Red. 4 4-&pd 12CI-4-0<. MlroOn. 4. 4-epd Black. 6, automattc Blue. 4. 5-speect U CHO eom..lon E­
Brown. 4 automatiC Brown. 8. 108(jed
BATIERY & GENERATOR UZ-.4-0r Oil-71 c..,noa, 4-Door 12­
12Eoc:or1.4-0o. 120.10C-YOII
Maroon. 6, automatoc Maroon. 8. au1oma1oc: While. 8. automattc Biack, 4. 5-SQeed
&ue. automattc Tan, 6, eutOITNIIIC
12Hor1aon 71Moltbu,4-0aot 12&-10~
IOMonu

'619800 Green. •· •-aod ~~:r-210 B<ue. 8, 4-opd Sliver. e. ·automanc 8'ue. 8. 4-IC)eed a.....-
Biue 8. a~fomatle 

SPONSORED BY GATES CHEVROLET, GATES TOYOTA, GATESWAY LEASING 



--~~-­



Thursday, May 2, 1985 -: page 11
Sports Briefs 
Cushing 
continuedfrompage 16

The ND Rugby Club will hold elections for next 

BASEBALL TRIVIA 
cast a majority vote based their team members' choice. 
, year's officers tonightat 7:30p.m. on the second floor ofLaFortune. 
All club members should vote. -The Obseroer In order to alleviate the problem
"1947 World Series" 
ofprimarily senior council members The ND Rowing Club will hold its annual awards 
narrowing the candidates, which banquet on Saturday. All members who wish to attend should give 
1) Which pitcher threw a no-hitter for eight and two-third innings 
was the focus of the petition, Byrne SS to Joe B. in 240 Howard or MCD at Saint Mary's today For more 
for the New York Yankees only to have it broken up? 
opened last night's fdrum by stating
2) Which player ofthe Los Angeles Dodgers broke up that no-hitter? information, call Joe at 283-2526.-The Obseroer 
that in a council meeting held Tues­3) Which player caught joe DiMaggio's drive to left in Game 4 to day night, it was deCided that next 
prevent a game-winning home run? 

year at least one ! of a team's
4) Who was the manager ofthe Yankees?

A cricket matchwill be sponsored by the International representatives has t~ be an under­Students Organization on Saturday at noon on Stepan Fields. lbe 
5) Who was the manager ofthe Dodgers? 

classman. game once again will feature India against "The Rest of the World." 
by K.C. Culum 
Byrne stressed that the athletes Any interested players should contact Winston Griffin. -The Obser­should take the election of the 

ver 
Answers wlll appear in tomorrow's paper 
future representatives serioulsy so that they will best represent the ath­
letes' own views. 

The Obserr•er Notre;, Dame;, otfk.:. locate;,d on th.: third floor of laFortun.: Stud.:nt Ce;,nt.:r. acc.:pts dassifkd advntising from l) a.m. until -t p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Ohserr•er Saint Mary's offic.:. lo~·at.:d on the;, third floor of Haggar Colkg.: C.:nte;,r. acce;,pts dassitkds from 12::\0 p.m. until:\ p.m~. Mon­day though Friday~ lkadline;, for next-day dassitkds is :\ p.m. All dassifkd~ must tw prepaid. drher in pe;,rson or by mail Charge;, is I 0 ce;,nts per five;, charac­



Classifieds 
te;,rs r dav. 
LOST:  royal  blue  back  pack  has  3  Summer houeing n-.cl Two guys sN/1  WANT  TO  WISH  A  SENIOR  CON­ LAST  CHANCE  to  Mild  Mntlmenta  
NOTICES  notebooks and 2 books. Last seen in the South Dining Hall on Friday lhe 26.  need somewhere to live this summer. If you have someplace cheap to rent call  TICKETS  GRATS? If you're not sure how to express your con­ through THE OBSERVER Claulfieda Ia Friday Mlly 3, by 3:00pm for the fiMI  
PLEASE return ill need it lor finals. Trav  Dan at 1625.  gratulations, why not PUBLISH them?  lnue (MIIy I) of the 1884-85 OBSER­ 
2729  You can place a display ad in THE  VER or by Thuraday Mlly 18, for the  
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997  Need a ride East AFTER GRADUATION?  BIG BUCKS FOR GRADUATION TICK·  OBSERVER lor just $15.95 and wish  Mlly 17 GRADUATION ISSUEII  
WORDPROCESSING • 277·6045. Wordproc...lng•nd Typing 272-8827  Will the per110n who "borro-" the lrieh planter from the MCrmry'e cleek In 356 O'Sh-a, pi••• return it-no qu..tlone ••ked. It Wile • gift from •nother O'Sh-a MCretary Mver•l y•ra-ao.  Pbgh, Breezewood, D.C. Call Kathleen 2777 NEED MALE ROOMMATE NEXT YEAR AT HICKORY VILLAGE APTS. CALL MARK AT 272-6298.  ETS!!! CALL MARK AT 232-5645 TWO GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED IN A BAD WAY JOHN 277-0607 need 3 tickets lor grad. call John 3681.  graduation congratulations. The deadline lor placing a graduation ad is May 10. FCE FCE FCE FCE  SIUdent liaison Comminee vole lor 85/86 club officers at the Snite Museum fronl desk. Deedline 4:00pm Friday. May 10. oii'Nc·e·P·;,:ii·;:y;··iil:ow..o'F·;:·Fi'NAls"& PARTY! PROGRESSIVE MUSIC CLUB  
PRQ-TYPE Over 14 yrs. experience typing student papers. resumes, and dis­sertations 277-5833. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. Be Smart! Beat the rush! Sell your books lor $$. Books bought M-F Pandora's Books, 937 Soulh Bend Ave (1 block from Corby's). ATIENTION ATIENTION!! SAB REFRIGERATOR RETURN SUNDAY, MAY 5. 1-4PM STEPAN CENTER~ REFRIGERATORS MUST BE CLEANED AND THAWED BEFORE DEPOSIT WILL BE RETURNED. ATIENTION ATIENTION All geographi­cal clubs and mdiv1duals planning a baggage truck to their respective areas must fill out an application as soon as pos~ sible. Available at SAB office 1st lir LaFortune. ATIENTION TEXANS: Alllhose wishing lo ship luggage. furniture. etc~ to the Dal­las, Houston or San Antonio areas at mini­mal cosl, please contact Brian at 2140 or Tex at 233·5313. LOST/FOUND I LOST-gold ring with blue stone in South Dmmg Hall on Tues~ 4/23. II you found it, please call liz 1 992. Thanks LOST TWO WEEKS AGO FRIDAY AT STEPAN CENTER DURING THE JAZZ FEST -A BRACELET WITH A SILVER SETIING IF FOUND, CALL LINDA AT 4215  IF YOU TOOK A PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING BY ACCIDENT FROM F­LINE IN NORTH DINING HALL ON TUESDAY APRIL 30 BETWEEN 12:30 AND 1:00,1 REALLY NEEDTHATBOOK FOR A FINAL YOU CAN HAVE IT AFTER~ CAll KIM AT 4205 NO CUES· TIONS ASKED. REALLY. LOST: BRASS KEY RING MONDAY NIGHT, APRIL 29, AT SENIOR BAR. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL ANN AT 284­4438. QUESTION: Have you hugged your bike today? ANSWER: NOPE! It was STOLEN. QUESTION: What has one big grudge, and two tired legs? ANSWER: Some Oriental Guy LOST: GOLD SIGNET RING WITH INI· TIALS CMB. CAll CARLA AT 2621. FOUND: BROWN SUNGLASS--AFTER THE BLUE/GOLD GAME--CALL 3035 AND ASK FOR PAUL TO IDENTIFY FOUND: BLACK WATCH--GOLF COURSE--TUESDAY 4/30--CAll 3035 AND ASK FOR PAUL TO IDENTIFY LOST: A tri-color 14K gold mesh bracelet wilh a clasp lasten. on Friday 4-27-85. This is an anniversary present and has greal sentimental value. II iound please contact Rosanne 239-6436 at the Finan­ Need person(s) to drive U-HAUL to Den­ver belore or alter GRADUATION All ex­penses paid plus BONUS. CAll MARK AT 234-1253. WORK OUTSIDE THIS SUMMER MIC· HIGAN SUMMER CAMP is looking lor counselors, cooks, unit leaders, waterfront director. lnstructorsM swim­ming, rowboating, canoeing. horseback riding, archery, woodworking, drama, crafts, biking, nature studies. Must live on premises 9 weeks. College credit pos­sible. Salary plus room and board~ Call: Camp Chief Makisabee-(616) 424-5272. R1de needed: ALBANY /1-90 alter Sat May 11. Mark2153 HELP NEEDED AT SUPER SALE. GOOD PAY. THIS FRI.-SUN. APPLY GATE 3, A.C.C. 8:30 FRI. MORNING Responsible person who is handy at home repair is seeking a house sitting job lor 6 months to a year. Employed at Neighborhood Housing Services. Good references. caJI David 233-8335. NEED RIDE TO ATLANTA! Can leeve alter 5/13. Will share ex­penses. Call Andrea x3880. ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE N.D. APT. FOR '85-'86. COOL ROOMIES. CALL TIM AT 3546. BIKES BIKES BIKES.~. IF YOUR LOOKING TO SELL ONE, I'M LOOKING TO BUY ONE~ ANY BIKE, ANY CONDI­TION. CALL ED 1818 1 Rider needed to Jax. FIO<ida or ? along the way. Leaving Tuesday lhe 14th. Call Davidat3123.  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS PLEASE CALL PAUL OR JEFF ANYTIME AT 232-4525. GRAD TIX WANTED. NEED 3. PLEASE HELP OUT IF YOU CAN. CALL234·7319 PRINCE AND THE REVOLUTION wont be al my graduation but my family will! And they need 1 or 2 tickets. Call Bob M. at 3192 it u will. HELP!! I'M GETIING DESPERATE SENIORS!! I NEED ONE MORE GRADUATION TICKET!! WILLING TO PAY TOP DOLLARS FOR THIS TICKET!! PLEASE CALL JEFF AT 3859! YOU WONT REGRET HELPING A FEL· LOW SENIOR! THANKS!! NEED 5 GRAD TIX, PLEASE !! CAll KAREN AT 277-6740. I NEEDGRADTIX CALL WOZZ 1812 OR 3224 HELP!!! NEED FIVE (5!) GRAD TIX OR RENTS WILL MAKE ME STAY IN SOUTH BEND..CALL KEVIN AT 2872290 DERANGED PSYCHOPATH WILLING TO SWAP COVETED COLLECTION OF ODD $HARP POINTY OBJECT$ FOR GRAD TIX. CALL PAUL ]232-6697 TO SETUP $ALE. I DESPARATELY NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. IF YOU CAN HELP ME PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1236. WIL· UNG TO PAY BIG BUCKS. GRADUATION TICKETS? Will pay top dollar! Call Nancy x4225  RETURN YOUR FCE TODAYIII (TO HAll PRES. THANKS!! ) CARA, MAP, TRISH, MYM, MELIS, & KElll, THIS IS IT. YOUR LAST PERSONAL. ENJOY THESE LAST 2 WEEKS AND GOOD LUCK ON FINALS. TRISH & MAP, GOOD LUCK AT DISTRICTS THIS WEEKEND. TAKE CARE. LOVE, T Are you plann1ng to go to Europe any bme during the fall 1985?1tso, give meacallal 1346 (Ask fO< Barbara). I need graduation tickets (more than everyone else). II you can help call Barb at 1346. Thanks. All Single Albums ond Topes 6.50orless TDKSA&O'e 51or$6.50 While they last Only at Rock du Lac Firsllloor LaFortune CAUFORNIANSI II anyone can help get some of my stuff home to mid or North. Calif., or wanls to co-rent transportation there, I may be able lo pay a little more than the usual. Call Mike at 1004. I NEED GRADUATION TIX!!! Any extra call Sheila 234-7319. HELP'!!! MY MOM JUST HAD SEX­TUPLETS AND THEY All WANT TO GO TO GRADUATION!!!!! IF YOU HAVE AN­NNNNYYY EXTRA TICKETS PLEASE CALL TIM (1 108) or LISA (2775) GRIF· FIN... My Mom will be very thankful~  DANCE PAR TV! FRI MAY 3 1Q-1am ] CHAT AQUA FREE! DC CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK DC CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK QUESTIONS? CALL JOHNAT1726 CONGRATULATIONSCARA ON YOUR JOB AT NORTHWESTERN. WE'RE SO PROUD OF YOU!!!! GOOD LUCK NEXT YEAR. LOVE, THE GANG I HAVE AN EXTRA HOTEL ROOM FOR SAT., MAY 18, BEFORE GRADUATION. CALL MOLLY AT283·2621. TIME IS RUNNING OUT SO WALK DON'T RUN TO The Observer TO PUT IN YOUR CLASSIFIEDS TO SAY GOOD-BYE TO YOUR FRIENDS FOR THE SUMMER AND/OR TO WISH THE 1.5GMOUATESAHAPPYUFL THE LAST ISSUE FOR The Observer IS MONDAY, MAY 6. THERE WILL BE A GRADUATION ISSUE ON FRIDAY, MAY17. TO SPECIAL PE SRS THINGS ARE GOING SO FAST ft SOON WE'll BE DROWNINGIN THE EXCITEMENT OF SR WI< I JUST WANTED TO LET Y'All KNOW HOW MUCH I LOVE YOU GUYS AND HOW MUCH I'M GONNA MISS YOU ITS AN AWFUL FEELING TO BE LEFT BEHIND THANKS FOR MORE THAN I CAN SAY I'll NAME MY FIRST JEEP AFTER Y'ALL DROP IN FOR PIZZA ANYTIME TAKE CARE -LOVE CHRISTI-STEIN So Cal Club end ol the year picnic-across from Stepan(by mudpils)-Friday(5/3) 4­6pm-Aloha!  
LOST: One (1) Physics 128 book. Ac­cidentally(?) taken lrom South Dining Hall dunng lunch on 4/29. In order to stay at  cial Aid Office. Reward ol $25 15 offered if found.  heading east after graduation? ride needed to north jersey or nyc area. please call deb at 2900.  NEED GRAD TIX WILL PAY$$$ CAll4510  Why do -keep getting in eo many flghte?  NEED GRAD TIX CALL STEVE AT 277­3921  
NO I need to get at least a ·o· in the class and I need the book tosludylorlinals. Call Kevm at 2103 or put it back where you  FOR RENT  Part time job! Need help laying sod. $4 .00/h call 277.7660  I NEED GRAD TIX Call Keith 3540  Thank You Saint Jude!! CLASSOF'87  HEY O.K. SO YOU FINAllY TURNED 21. CONGRATULATIONS! "Debbie does Dallas'" or is it...  
found il. Thanks.  RIDER  TO  CENTRAL  NEW  JERSEY  PICNIC!!  "Debbie  does  Upper  Saddle  
LOST:IN SOUTH DINING HALL on April 25, a green backpack contain ing 3 folders, 3 notebooks. an accounting book, a management book, pens, pencils, a cal­culator. 3 packs ol gum, and other impor­tant stuff. II you have any into about lhis. think you know where it might be, or just want to talk, call Chris at 3244 or 3243. I really need lhis stuff lor finals. Thanks. Lost: Keyring with car keys and dorm keys on il. Lost on South Quad Friday after­noon. If found please return to Laura at 323 P .W. or call 2798. Did you aoodentally pick up a green lab book from the momtor's desk in the En­gmeenng Student Center? II you did, our names are on the book and we desperately need it back~ Please call us-­a three credit course IS ridtng on its safe return. LOST: BROWN WALLET between North 01ning Hall and LaFortune. Call Marc at 1170~ LOST: A green Comparative Government notebook and a red Political Theory notebook. They both have my name, dorm, and room number in them. If found, contact John Kilcran in SO<in Hall, room 335 My number is 2198.  (Middletown, Lincroft, Holmdel, etc.) FOR RENT: GRADUATE STUDENTS NEEDED !! Will RENT CAR & LEAVE ONLY 2-Bedroom HouM 1 mile from 5/12 OR 5/13...CALL PAT AT 3317 or C.mpue. Completely Remodeled­3318. $350.00/Month C.ll287-4107 •t 6 p.m. for•ppt. WANTED: A ROOMMATE FOR NICE CHEAP HOUSE. CALL RALPH. 1486 Chicago one-bedroom apartment to sub­let. Available May I. 10 minules by bus WANTED: PEOPLE TO GO IN ON SUM· from loop. Desirable neighborhood. MER STORAGE WITH US. WE HAVE Vintage building with elevator. Mo (312) TRANSPORTATION. CAll 284-5072 348-2418 AM or PM. OR 284-5080. WANTEDResponsible female roommate to share SMALL REFRIGERATOR IN GOODfurnished lownhouse apt. at Turtle Creek CONDITION, REASONABLY PRICED~ for summer and/or 1985-86 school year. CALLCYNTHIAAT284-9711 BETWEENCall Annene 272-6014 evenings. 8:30AM AND 5 PM. ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE N.D. APT~ FOR '85-'86. COOL ROOMIES~ ~~~~.~~-~-~-:.-~-~-~........... .. ... I FOR SALE WANTED I ~UNIT APARTMENT..FOR..s:A:i:e:..N·i:i: MEMORIAL AREA, EXCELLENT CON­N-Ticket• For Gr•du•tlon DITION 233-9728 232-4528 PIMM Cllil Mel •t 283-3716 HAVE SWEET DREAMS! 2 TWIN BEDS FOR SALE CALL 277-4872 '84 NO grad needs ROOMMATE lor 2 bdrm apl in Birmingham, MI. Call 272­FOR SALE: Post Office Jeap, '69, $150, 8617 if relocating in DetrOit area. CALL JOHN 234-9580  NEED GRAD TICKET!! CALL TED AT 232-5645 HELP'. need 3 grad.lix call mark x1204 $$$$FOR GRAD TIX 1346 WANTED.TICKETS FOR GRADUA· TION. PLEASE CALL ART AT 277-8371 $$$$ I HAVE GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL SELL REAL CHEAP. CALL BETH AND AMY AT21114. ARRGHH!! If I do not find one extra ticket for graduation, I'm dead!!! please call 3188 I need tix lor graduation. Will pay massive $'s. Call Greg at 1 1 53. HHH HELP FAMILY OF 22 SEE GRADUATION! YES, I really DO have 21 brothers and sisters. Do you have tickets? Call Angie 287-1 505 PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  Friday, May 3rd 4:30·6:30 Green Field CLASSOF'87 Mass at the Grono May 5th, 7 P.M. B.Y.O.B. (Blanket) Be Smart! Beat the rush! Sell your books lor $$. Books boughl M-F. Pandora's Books, 937 South Bend Ave ( 1 block from Corby's). HAPPY 21ST DEBBIE KELLY, YOU FEISTY IRISH WENCH! Now that you are finally legal, are you going to take pity on your two less fortunate roomates? Remember, we're still on the prowl lor a couple ol bonles ol Asti alter finals ... P.w. doesn't realize how lucky it is; take care and stop by South Quad occasionally next year. We'll miss you even if you are from New Jersey' Love, Maureen and Sandy Happy 21st Birthday Emily Ahern! Don't forget what I promised you tor your present -because I didn't! Have a greet one! Love, M.C. THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR ENDING  River" how 'bout... "Debbie does N.D." H•ppy Birthday from your future roomie' P .S. Do ducks eal banenas? TED: Why are you wasting time with ECON when you could go GO! --A Fellow Calilornian EJB: Its too bad the year and its pos­sibilities are ending, bur there's always next year ... •• A Secret Admirer THE MORRISSEY LUNCH PAIL CLUB You will soon be exposed. Beware ol girls in white dresses. Sl. Mary's Student Government is spon­soring TUNES TANNING AND TREATS SATURDAY, MAY 4 1-4 HCC TERRACE Come out and relax bel ore finals!! We wiH be giving away two hawaiian short sets. Rain: inside HCC ENJOY DOMINOS PIZZA THURSDAY FOR  
To the person who lhought that il would be cule to remove the set of keys from the secunty vehicle on Sl. Marys campus  NEED GRAD TIX, Will PAY$$$. JOHN 234-9580  Car top luggage carrier, 30" x 40" ~ Fits most cars $40. 232-5646~  HELP!! I AM IN DIRE NEED OF ONE MORE GRADUATION TICKET'!! PARENTS WILL Kill ME IF I DON'T  MY TEARS DO YOU UKE CHICS AND MONEY SMC Orientation seeks domers to assist  RASTA and help Ethiopia  
lriday night, lhe joke was taken very Sllflously. II you have any mlormabon, please call 239-6334 "' 232-9332 evenings. NO QUESTIONS ASKED ...  I need • C8rl Summer employment necessitates my buying a car~ If you have an inexpensive car that you don't want to drive all the way home. let me know. Call  FOR SALE: COMPLETELY REMODELED 2·BEDROOM HOUSE 1 Milefrom C.mpua. GrMt for tulnveet·  COME THROUGH WITH THIS DEAL!! PLEASE HELP OUT A POOR FELLOW SENIOR, AND CALL JEFF AT 3859.  in the moving of 500 SMC freshman inlo their halls. Benefits are many. Interested? Contact Maura or Carol at 4339 or 4352 (SMC)  MICHELLE CURTIN HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY. GO WILD. THROW CAUTION TO THE WIND.LET  
LOST: levi's jacket at lhe ACC S.IUrday "ght while Wlltching Tom my Sh•w IT\Ue a video. II found piMN call Colleen 284­ Dan at 1625. Thanks. ad Need 1 male roommala lor campus vi-Apbl (7Vet tummer, $170.00 Mch  men!. ~nd contract IIVallable. Cd altar& p.m. lor~ 287-4107 SANYO 33'x18'x17' FRIDGE LIKE NEW!  Attantlon .. tutora •ncl ceptaina o1 NSHP. Annual aprtng picnic Ia thlaSu....., from 2 to 4 p.m. et Stapan CliMer. Frea r..-..=rea drlnld BE  RETAIL FURNITURE SALES Part time, flexible hours. lmrned. openings. call Chria Pedevila 259-0007 10-IIPM The  YOUR HAIR DOWN. BE THE WILD WOMAN YOU WERE MEANT TO BE. LOVE, PEGGELS P .S DID WE MISS THE EXIT TO LOMBARD AGAIN?  
4034.  call John at 277-0808~  CHRIS284·5161  TtfEit£1  Furntiure G.llery, Milha.  



The Observer Thursday, May 2, 1985-page 12 
Cruz 3 hits, 3 RBI's sink Mets for Knepper, 10-3 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK· Jose Cruz, homered, 
singled twice, drove in three runs 
and scored three last night to back 
Bob Knepper and the Houston 
Astros to a 10·3 victory over the 
New York Mets. 
Knepper, 2·0, worked five in­
ning.~. giving up three runs on seven 
hits. Frank DiPino, the third Houston 
pitcher, worked the final two in· 
nings for his third save. Ron Darling, 
1·1, who pitched a shutout in his last 
start, gave up five runs, two of them 
unearned, on nine hits in his 6 1-3 
innings' work. 
Met's catcher Gary Carter did not 
play. He was diagnosed yesterday 
morning as having a cracked rib, sus­
tained Sunday in a 5-4, 18-inning vic· 
tory over Pittsburgh. It was not 
known when he'll return to play. 
Cubs 4, Giants 3 
CHICAGO · Shawon Dunston stole third base and came home with the winning run on a throwing error by San Francisco catcher Bob Brenly in the bottom of the ninth as the Chicago Cubs beat the Giants 4-3 yesterday. 
Top horses prepped for Derby Day 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, KY.· Spend A Buck is 
a speedy Kentucky Derby con· 
tender, but the time that most im· 
presses his trainer was the 12 
minutes it took to remove a bone 
chip from the colt's knee. 
Spend A Buck had arthroscopic 
surgery on the knee last Nov. 26, 
returned to racing with a third-place 
in the Bay Shore Stakes at Aqueduct 
on March 23, then turned in dazzling 
victories in the Cherry Hill Mile and 
Garden State Stakes at Garden State 
Park. 
Not so long ago, the colt would 
still have been recuperating. 
"It would have been a minimum of six months recovery priod," owner Dennis Diaz said yesterday. "He wouldn't have been here. He wouldn't have raced until the fall." 
Instead, Spend ABuck rules as one 
of the favorites, along with Chiefs 
Crown, Proud Truth and Rhoman 
Rule, for the 1 )-mile Derby on Satur· 
day. 
Entries will be taken today for a 
field of 14 three-year-olds which is 
shaping up for the 5250,000-added 
Derby, which would have a purse of 
about 5600,000 with 14 starters. 
One who won't be going is Creme 
Fraiche, winner of the Derby Trial 
last Saturday. Trainer Woody Step· 
hens said he plans to hold the gel­
ding out ofthe Derby and run him in 
the Illinois Derby May 18 at 
Sport~man's Park. 
Trainer Cam Gambolati said he thinks Spend A Buck suffered the knee injury when he jumped a track made by the starting gate during the Young America, in which he finished second at the Meadowlands on Oct. IH. 
However, if it did occur then, it was not noticeable, and Spend A Buck finished third behind Chiefs Crown and Tank's Prospect in the S 1 million Breeders'Juvenile Nov. 10 at Hollywood Park. 
r 
When the colt returned to Florida, X-rays were taken, and Gambolati called Dr. Wayne Mcllwraith of 
Colorado State University. 
"He told me if you give him six months he'll be 100 percent, but I can save you three months," Gam­bolati said. 
The 12-minute operation was per· formed at an equine hospital at Gulfstream Park in Hallandale, Fla. 
Dunston led oft' the ninth with a 
walk and stole second base. After 
pinch hitter Larry Bowa struck out, 
Bob Dernier was walked intention­
ally, setting up the possibility of a 
double play with Ryne Sandberg at 
to bat. 
But Sandberg, last year's National League Most Valuable Player, never got a chance to be the hero this time. 
With one strike on Sandberg, both Dunston and Dernier took off. Bren­ley's throw to third hit the dirt in front of the bag and bounced over third baseman Chris Brown's head into left field. Dunston ran home without a play being made. 
Dennis Eckersley, 4-1, got the win. Scott Garrelts, 0-1 was the loser in relief. 
Padres 6, Pirates 4 
PITTSBURGH · Tim Flannery's two-run double capped a three-run San Diego fourth inning last night as the Padres defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates 6-4. 
Eric Show, 3·1, withstood a three· run Pirate fourth inning to earn the victory, allowing three hits until 

EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'IL\IlE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 
I

United Limo ~81811 

ll!flir' 
10844 Mc~•nlev Hwv Osceold ~.. 1miUHIIIHII 
' 
674·6991 ··, , ,,.~ mu !{lf'WIII255,3068 ~III'IJj i ,. r'.' t 'IIIN Hllltl 
or call vou• Travel QqPnl t;,lj I I IWIIIIillllll;,IIIII""I' f-Jllllllllllllllllr.l
hl•llllm•n•u II 
R8ST8 ==presents=== 
REGGAE for -featuring== 

~DAllOl~ 
A RITA MARLEY PRODUCTION 

SATURDAY MAY 4, 8:00pm STEPAN CENTER 

Tickets on sale NOWI $4 La Fortune Record Store Rally Against Starvation 

~-----~----------------~----------------------------­

-----~~, ~--·• $ $ave $ $ ..88IIIAIII.._J/IIJ--IIIIIiiiil-llllliii 
S25.00 IO S150.00 Offtava dol 
On any Rant-it-Here, Leave-it-There Ryder One Way Truck Rental 
Offer valid only with this coupon. Not valid with other specials.
RYDER 


SOUTH BEND rents trucks to move it yourself LOCATIONS 1914 Miami St. 2715 North Bendix Dr. 289-6721 277-3550 OR 2627 South Main St. 
232-6729 
mAQ

L 
TrlMerlt of Northern Indiana 211·2114-7231 8002-11-5110 
----------------------------------------------------~~-----~ 
being replaced by Tim Stoddard 
with two on and two out in the sixth. 
Stoddard got out of the jam by get· 
ting Tony Pena to pop out. 

Rich Gossage, who put down an 
eighth-inning uprising, worked the 
final 1 2/3 innings for his sixth save. 
He got out of a bases-loaded jam in 
the ninth by forcing George 
Hendrick to pop up for the final out. 

The Padres scored in the second 
on Garry Templeton's single, Show's 
sacrifice and AI Bumbry's run­
scoring single before making it 4-0 
in the fourth against loser jose 
Deleon, 0-4. 
Braves 17, Reds 9 

CINCINNATI · Dale Murphy drove in three runs, two on his 1Oth home run, as the Atlanta Braves pasted the Cincinnati Reds 17·9 yes­terday in a game delayed two hours, 41 minutes by rain. 
Rick Mahler, 6-0, was the recipient of the major league's big· gest offensive outburst Lhis season. 
The Braves, who finished with 25 hits, rapped out eight straight hits in the first inning after there was one out. They scored six times, each run driven in by a different player, before the second out was made. 

Cincinnati starter John Stuper, 3· 
2, the first of six Reds pitcher, lasted 
one-third of an inning, allowing five 
hits and five runs, all earned. 
Yankees 5, Rangers 1 
ARLINGTON, TEXAS· Ron Hassey went 4-for-4, drove in his first four runs ofthe season and scored the ot· her last night as New York beat the Texas Rangers 5-1 for Billy Martin's first victory in three games since returning as manager ofthe Yankees. 
The RBis were the first of the season for Hassey, who replaced Don Baylor as the designated hitter against knuckleballer Charlie Hough, 1·1, and had a double and three singles. Over the last two seasons Hassey is batting .750 · 12· for-16 · with seven RBis against the Rangers. 
Starter Ed Whitson, 1·3, recorded his first victory since signing with the Yankees as a free agent. 
Orioles 3, White Sox 1 
BALTIMORE· Cal Ripken cracked 
Attention Seniors: 
You may purchase your "Weddingless Reception" tickets ($6 ea.) and "Movie Night" tickets ( $2 ea.) on Wed. and Thurs., May 1 and 2, in the main lobby of Lafortune from 11 am to 2 pm. 
Tickets are limited for both events so buy early!! 
The Saint Francis Shoppe is having a Spring Sale! May 2, 3 & 4 
SAVE FROM 10-50% ON ALL MERCHANDISE 
Including: 

• 
Baskets • Sterling jewelry 

• 
Pottery • Peruvian rugs & pillow covers 

• 
Navajo rugs • Onyx carvings 

• 
Ebony & Teak Carvings • Coffee 


Discover a unique shop with handcrafted merchandise we are proud to present. 
U.S. 31 NORTH (behind Fatima Retreat Center) Hours: 10am-5pm, Monday-Saturday/Phone 233-7467 
SEE THIS MAP FOR YOUR SAVINGS 
RENT FROM SOUTH BEND TO ANY OF THESE AREAS AND SAVE. 

a two-run homer and Rich Dauer added a solo blast as the Baltimore Orioles defeated the Chicago White Sox 3·1 last night with unexpected help from third-base umpire Tim Welke. 
Rookie Ken Dixon, 2-0, got the 
win. 

The White Sox had the bases loaded with one out in the sixth when Carlton Fisk hit a smash that went past the bag fair but struck Welke in foul territory behind third base. 
Since the ball had gone past a Bal­timore infielder, it was in play. Rudy Law, who opened the inning with a double, scored on the hit to pull Chicago to within 2·1. But Greg Walker, running from first base, ap· parently thought the ball had gone into the left-field corner and was trapped after rounding second. In the ensuing rundown, Scott Fletcher broke from third and was thrown out trying to score. Oscar Gamble then fanned on a 3·2 pitch. 
Ripken homered in the fifth off Britt Burns, 3·2, following a single by Dauer and Dauer hit his home run to open the seventh. 
The Observer Thursday, May 2, 1985-page 13 
Baseball standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE East E..t 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB Ch1cago 13 6 684 Toronto 14 7 .667 New York 12 7 632 Baltimore 13 7 .650 .5 
Montreal 13 8 .619 1 Detroit 11 8 .579 2 Philadelphia 8 12 .400 5.5 Milwaukee 9 11 .450 4.5 St. Louis 8 12 .400 5.5 Boston 9 12 .429 5 Pittsburgh 6 ~1f; Cleveland 8 13 381 6
'" 
New York 368 6 
Weal

West 
Cahforma 14 !l 636San Diego 11 9 550 1~ 9 .571 1.5
Los Angeles 12 '0 545 M1nnesota 
.524 Kansas C1ty 11 9 .550 2 Atlanta 10 10 .500 Ch1cago 9 Houston 11 10 
9 .500 3 Cinonnat1 10 11 .476 1.5 Seallle 10 12 .455 4 San Francisco 7 13 .350 4 Oakland 
9 13 .409 5 Texas 7 13 .350 6 
Yaeterdey's Raeulte 
Yeeterdey'e Raeulte Minnesota 7. Detroit 3 Atlanta 17. Cmc1nnat1 9 Baltimore 3, Chicago 1 Los Angeles 2. Si LOUIS 1, 12 1nnings Cleveland 6, Kansas City 5 Chicago 4, San Franc1sco 3 New York 5, Texas 1 
Houston 10. New York 3 Toronto 6, California 3 Montreal 3. Philadelphia 2 Milwaukee 7, Oakland 4 San D1ego 6. P1ttsburgh 4 Seattle 7, Boston 0 
Hartwig a big boost to teammates 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
How does one major in nursing, serve as a resident advisor, actively participate in school organizations, and still find time to compete in a collegiate sport? 
Ask Diane Hartwig, a member of the Saint Mary's track team, who manages to accomplish all of this and more. 
Hartwig, a senior from Princeton, Ill., maintains a full schedule yet is still able to contribute a great deal of time and effort to the Saint Mary's track team. 
"Diane has had to juggle her time since she's a nursing major, but she's done it, so she's really given a lot to our team," says Jean Kerich, track 

Not only does Hartwig compete in the javelin, discus, and shotput events, but she helps the younger team members in the field events, as well. 
"I enjoy helping people with their form. It's really rewarding to see ot­hers increase their distance in the field events," savs Hartwig. 
Hartwig certainly has the ex­perience to help coach her fellow team members. A track competitor since seventh grade, she was the county champion for the discus and shotput events in high school, and she received the Coach's Award 
both freshman and sophomore years at Saint Mary's for her contributions 

"I've always been involved in ath­letics, and track was one sport I really enjoyed. I love it," she says. 
Hartwig is pleased with her in­dividual performances in the field events this season but is satisfied particularly with her accomplish­ments in the discus event. 
Among Hartwig's other interests are the Student Athletic Council, the Student Nursing Association, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Fellowship of Christian Athletes, and Campus Ministry. 
Hartwig was attracted to Saint Mary's because of the atmosphere and its good reputation as a small, private, Catholic women's college. She decided to attend Saint Mary's primarily for its nursing program, however. 
After graduating, Hartwig plans to work as a neurological rehabilitation nursing specialist for patients with spinal cord and head injuries. 
Sweep 
continuedfrom page 16 

run. With two away, Shields reached base when third baseman John Hemingway did his Pele imitation on an easy ground ball. Shields went to second on an errant pick-off throw and moved to third on a wild pitch. From there, he had no problems scoring on Trudeau's single to left, which gave the Irish right fielder his 41st RBI of the year. 
Meanwhile, Powell had a no-hitter going with one out in the fourth before John Vanderwal lined a double to center. However, the Irish defense came to the rescue, as Van­thournout barehanded Roger Mar­quardt's bunt down the third-base line and gunned him down with an off-balance throw. Next, Powell helped his own cause, making a leaping stab of Hemingway's one­hopper up the middle to throw him out and retire the side. 
Still, the Broncos did not give up, putting runners on second and third with one out in the fifth. This time it was Shields, who had already made a pair of dazzling plays at shortstop, that came to Powell's aid. The junior shortstop went in the hole to get Kevin Mclellan's grounder and fired a perfect strike to the plate to nail 
JeffThrans trying to score. 
A lesser team may have been frustrated, but to Western Mic­higan's credit, it finally got to Powell in the sixth. Hemingway, who had been foiled in the fourth, came up with a sacrifice fly to left to tie the score at 1-I. 
The Irish were not about to let this pitching performance go to waste, and the bats came to life in the bottom of the sixth. Shields started the inning with a single, but was thrown out trying to steal. Un­daunted, Trudeau singled and managed to steal second using a nifty hook slide. One out later, fresh­man Mike McNeill came up with the big hit, lacing a grounder through the hole on the right side to send Trudeau sliding home just ahead of Craig Fields' throw. 
With a 2-1 lead to protect, Gallo had Buster Lopes warming in the pen, but Powell quickly proved he didn't need anymore help. Throw­ing harder than at any time in the game, Powell busted the first two Bronco batters with strikeouts, before Mclellan grounded out to end the game. 

The Irish now have a couple of days off before traveling to Maine to end the regular season with twin­bills on Saturday and Sunday. They could use the rest, as several players are nursing injuries with the latest casualty being Moran. The Irish cap­tain left the first game with a bruised heel which has been bothering him since the weekend, and he may only be available for pinch-hitting duty in the Maine series. 

The Obserwr Thursday, May 2, 1985-page 14 
Bolsters women's tennis team 
Petro has a team player in Schnell 
By DAVE WILSON 
.\ports Wrlter 
Aleader or a follower -the athlete usually falls into one of these catagories, and either way is an im­portant part of the team. But now and again there are those exceptions to the rule, those athletes that defy the odds. As leaders in some respects, and followers in others, they become both guide and inspira­tion to other members of the team. Senior Cathy Schnell fits just such a role on Notre Dame's women's ten­nis team. 
"Being a part of this team means more than just tennis 10 me," she says. "!like to encourage the up-and­coming players, hut at the same time, I have a lot of respect for the other seniors on the team." 
Schnell places particular em­phasis on the friendships that have resulted from her participation on the team. In fact, after living her first three years in Pasquerilla West, she moved to Farley Hall this year to be with her teammates. 
"My closest friends are right here among the tennis players," says the St. Louis, Mo., native. "In fact, I would credit those friendships with my decision to stick it out for four years. Tennis takes more dedication than most people realize." 
It is no wonder that Schnell knows 
about dedication. She is currently 
preparing to complete a very dif­
ficult degree in pre-med studies, and 
plans to attend medical school next 
Flockhart making the most of his opportunity 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL-Ron Flockhart ofthe Montreal Canadiens is happy to get some National Hockey League playoff time, and the speedy forward has made the most of his oppor­tunity. 
Flockhart had been benched in 
Montreal's I 0 previous playoff 
games but was a key performer in 
the Canadiens' S-2 victory over the 
Quebec Nordiques Tuesday night. 
'lbat victory deadlocked the best-of­
seven Adams Division final at three 
games apiece. Game 7 will be played 
tonight at the Forum. 
Flockhart, whose first goal of the playoffs was the decisive one in Game 6, lauded the Canadiens' or­ganization in the aftermath of vic­tory. He was all smiles when he was greeted by reporters from Philadel­phia, who, like the Flyers, await the winner of the Adams Division final. 
"Here, everything is like it wao; in 
Philadelphia," said Flockhart, who 
hadn't played since the final game of 
the regular season on April 7. "Here 
only one thing counts-winning. 
"'!bat's why I only think about 
doing my part. Everybody en­
courages you -ronald Corey (club 
president) and the others), it 
reminds me of my times with Ed 
Snider and the Flyers." 
Flynn 
continuedfrom page 16 
new coach. They all have different styles and I was looking forward to some consistency next year. He was a great motivator," said Murtagh. 
"It takes a while to realize the strenghs and weaknesses and we'll have to adjust again next year with a new coach. He wao; not a real verbal coach, but when he did offer con­structive uiticism or encourage­ment it meant a lot more to us," said Cushing, newly elected president of the Athletic Council. 
year in St. Louis. As a result, season, Schnell and Roemer turned academics and athletics pretty much out an impressive 24-8 tally. complete the day. In this her final season, Schnell 
"I won't say that my social life again plays thir<.i doubles, and with hasn't suffered because of my ten­freshman partner Michelle Dasso, nis," says Schnell, "but it has been has compiled a 17-4 record. well worth the commitment. The "Cathy has been a big help to me," friendships I have made will be says Dasso. "She is just a great per­deeply missed when I graduate. son, and I am going to miss her very 
"Actually, academically I am more much next year. The team thinks organized because of tennis," she very highly of her." continues. "'Jbe time I put into the 

Head Coach Sharon Petro is quick to share Dasso's opinions. 
"Cathy is a pleasure to work with, and a very hard worker," says Petro. "She is what I would consider a team player. She tries to do what is neces­sary to make this team go. 
"I know all the girls will miss Cathy next year," continues Petro. "It has been a lot offun having her on the team." 
Schnell will make her final ap­pearance with the Irish next week, when the team travels to Southern California for the NCAA Division II national championship. The Irish are 
Cathy Schnell seeded second behind Tennessee­

sport forces me to be more on top of Chatanooga, and will make their last things with my schoolwork. The bid at the title before being moved pressure only motivates me." up to Division I status next year. 
Tennis has long been a part of Schnell anticipates the trip, and Schnell's life. After a remarkable 22-graduation. 0 singles record her senior year of ''I'm going to miss this place like 
high school, she attended Notre crazy next year," she concludes. "I 
Dame for reasons other than tennis, know the championships are kind of but ultimately tried out and was ac­a now-or-never deal, but I can't help cepted as a walk-on. By her sop­thinking about graduation when I homore year, she was playing third return. IfI could do it again, I know I doubles with Greta Roemer, and last wouldn't change a thing. 
( ' 
..~, 
.;..)s:J ;;~~ ~ 
\-w ~;. 
-~ .~ ......, )< ... ~ ' 
THURS Ki:_=?/--~ -~­
2 QUARTER BEERS 
FRI 2 for 1 mixed drinks 3 'tUmidnite 
Saturday ... "PAR THREE" 


SOUTH BEND • LEBAN_ESE STYLE 
• Pita SW//t!d Salldwicltu GYROS 
• Deliahtful Pastrie• • Turlluh Coffee Tues-Sot 5:30PM-9:30PM 288-5639 
COMPLETE CATER-ING FOR PARTIES & BANQUETS ll.'i8 Prwt-Ave 
Notre DaDle Avenue ApartDlents 
NOWRENTING FORFAU 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Session) 
Offtce at 820 ND Ave 234-664 7 open Mon-Fri 3-6pm 256-5716 
Sat 11-3pm 
The Marketing Club announces the 
ANNUAL MARKETING BANQUET 
ON Sunday, May 5 5:00-7:00p.m. Senior Bar 
All marketing majors and club members are invited. No J.D. or admission fee required. 
Please R.S.V.P. to rm. 255 Hayes-Healy 
r!"IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIII..IIIIIIIIIIII! 
Just say ••• 
CHARGE IT! 
JUNIORS, SENIORS AND GRAD STUDENTS Apply now for a 
MASTERCARD VISA SEARS HUDSONS ZALES 
90%ofall applicants given instant credit. No cosigners! 
I Apply: Thursday and Friday, May 2-3 Lafortune Student Center 9am-4pm 
Brought to you by your Student Activities Board in conjunction with College Credit Card Corp. 
~lllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltiHIHMIHIIHIIIIIIi 






~c:tcj[Cl~----------------------------~---T-hu_r_sd-ay_._M~ay_2_,1_9_85--~pa~g~e-15 

Bloom County 
WfLL,.SINCE HES SO WELL CAMOUFlAGED, 
HE'S BEEN FRE'E TO 
RAID ANYTHING HE 
~NTS; FIRST FooD SALE"~ THf:N WALLETS NOW LOTTO MAcHI 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Minor prophet 5 USnaval 
historian 10 Record 14 Genuine 15 Convex molding 16 Navigator 
Tasman 17 Kismet 18 Br. assess· 
mentamount 19 Levin and Gershwin 
20 First part of quotation from Cicero 
23 City to Pierre 24 Tiber city 25 Lucky number 28 Rags-to-riches 
author 31 Before 32 Family member 35 Sword 39 Rushing stream 41 Laborjob 
©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
action 5/2/85
All Rights Reserved
43 Concerning 44 Withdraw 
Wednesday's Solution 
46 Papal name 5 Edible fungus 47 Extreme 6 Use 49 Approaches 7 Embarrassing 51 Not on schedule situation 53 City on the 8 Young or King 
Rhine 9 -contendere 56 Second part 10 Custom-made 
of quotation 11 Biblical 61 Molecule item patriarch 62 Hawaiian island 12 Serenity 63 Privy to 13 Otherwise 65 Idem 21 Laundry cycle 66 Sharp ridge 22 Cousin of ante 67 Brace 25 Bristle 68 Third part of 26 God of love 
quotation 27 Upright: abbr. 69 Matched 29 .;,._majesty 70 End of quo· 30 Grating tation 33 MIT word: abbr. 34 End of gang 45 Advisory group 56 Spar 
DOWN or spin 48 Conducted 57 Ancient 1 Sandy's sound 36-Negri 50 Mischievous kingdom 2 Main part 37 Pitcher 51 Water vessel 58 Zhivago's love 3 Profanity 38 Biblical in India 59 Biblical 4 Magician's · patriarch 52 Bouquet preposition 
place of 40 Truckdrivers 54 Type style 60 Soil concealment 42 Doctrine 55 Moved suddenly 64 Comedian Louis 


Berke Breathed The Far Side · Gary Larson 
Kevin Walsh 


"Now, in this slide we can see how the cornered cat has seemed to suddenly grow bigger .... 
~ 
Campus · 

3 p.m. -Tennis, ND Men vs. Eastern Michigan, Courtney Courts. 
3:30 p.m. Lecture, "Equivalent Homogeneous Modeling of Layered Elastromeric Bearings and Seals for Civil and Aerospace Applications," Dr. Leonard Her­mann, University of California, Davis, Room 303 Cushing. 4 p.m. -Radiation Laboratory Seminar, "Transient Intermediates in Photochemistry ofSmall-Ring Heterocycles," Dr. P. K. Das, NO, Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory. 
4:30 p.m. -AROTC Spring Awards Ceremony, Library Auditorium. 5:30p.m. -Jazz Concert, Notre Dame BigJazz Bands, Fieldhouse Mall, (In Case of Rain, The Nazz at 9 p.m.). 7 p.m. -Meeting, Rome-London Summer Program, Dr. Tony Black, SMC, Room 349 Madeleva Hall. 7 -8 p.m. · Meeting, Special Events Commit­tee, New Orleans Room, LaFortune, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 7, 9:15 & 11:30 p.m.· Fllm, "Star Trek II: The Wrath of Kahn," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored byStudentActivities Board, $1.50. 
TV Tonight 

6:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
6:30p.m. 16 M0A0S0H 22 Three's Company 28 VVheelofFortune 
7:00p.m. 16 Bill Cosby Show 22 Magnum, PI 28 Streethawk 
7:30p.m. lb Family Ties 8:00p.m. 16 Cheers 

Trickery! Trickery! Trickery!" ' 
7:30 p.m. · Meeting, International & Third World Development, Litde Theatre, LaFortune, Sponsored by Schiller Institute, Free. 8 p.m.-Concert, "A Concert ofSacred Music by French Composers," SMC Women's Choir, Church of Loretto, Sponsored by SMC Music Department, Free. 8 p.m. -Discussion, Led by Carol Mooney, ND Law Professor, Center for Social Con­cerns, Sponsored by ND Women's Caucus, Free & Open to All. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Broiled lamb chop Stuffed peppers Noodles romanoff 
Saint Mary's Baked chicken Soft shell beef tacos Zucchini-mushroom crepe Bratwurst on a bun 
22  Simon & Simon  
28  Eye to Eye  
34  34 Front · Nuclear Oisarmament  
8:30p.m.  16  Night Court  
9:00p.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Mystery· The Woman in VVhite  
!O:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Masterpiece Theatre  


.... 


S~orts 

Notre Dame third baseman Rich Vantbournout stroked a two-RBI single in the bollom of the second inni11g for the game-winning RBI in the opener ofyesterday's doubleheader with Western 
and had the support ofa potent Irish offense, as the righthander picked
Swim coach Flynn becomes fourth 
up his first win of the year against four defeats. 
Nevertheless, Cross may have

to submit resignation at St. Mary's 
By KELLY PORTOLESE shocked to hear that he has 
Saiitt Mary's Sports Editor resigned," said sophomore swim 
team member Mary Fisher. 

Saint Mary's swim coach Dan In his one year at the helm, Flynn's Flynn announced his resignation team broke three-fourths of the var­yesterday after one year with the sity records and the team placed team. 14th in Nationals. 
Flynn, a Notre Dame graduate stu­"I've really enjoyed working with dent, cited several reasons for his Dan this year and I feel it is unfor­decision. tunate that the team will have to 
"I have to spend more time with work with a new coach next year," my MBA program," explained Flynn. commented senior swim captain El­"I don't have the time the girls need len Byrne. "He brought about good or deserve. I am also very, very, dis­communication between the Saint appointed at the way the administra­Mary's and Notre Dame swim teams. tion is running things." "I know our team was shocked at 
Flynn's resignation comes within the announcement. It is just a shame a week of Assistant Director of Ath­Saint Mary's has lost another good letics Tim Dillon's resignation and coach. Why are all these coaches he is the fourth Saint Mary's coach to resigning and how is the athletic resign this year. department going to replace them?" 
"The last time I talked to Dan I un­junior swim member Mary Fran derstood he was going to be coach­Gisch also expressed disappoint­ing again next year and I am very ment in Flynn's decision to resign 
SMC Athletic Council names Cushing as president for '85 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
'!be Saint Mary's Athletic Council elected junior Anne Cushing as president for the 19H'i-86 school year after a question-and-answer forum in front of the present council and athletes last night in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
"I consider it a real priviledge that the athletes at Saint Mary's have elected me as a future president of the Athletic Council." said the three­year swim team member. "Although I know it will be a lot of hard work I am looking forward to working with the athletes next year. 
"'Ibis past year was the first year for the Athletic Council and I would like to see it continue to represent the student athletes and promote in­teractions between the sports on the varsity, club, and intramural levels." 
'Ibis year's president Ellen Byrne 
feels  the council  made a good  
choice.  
"All  the  candidates  made  

speeches, and based on them it was a majority vote that picked Anne. Ob­viously, we are all in agreement that Anne will make a great president," 
, said Byrne. The election, which was to have been held early last week, was postponed until last night due to a 
t ­
petition circulated whic11 requested a format change in the council's election procedures. 
Byrne, student government representative Ann Boulton, Elaine Suess of sports information, and in­tramurals representative Kerry Klein, interviewed and rated six can­didates on a point-value system and narrowed the candidates down to three. 
Cushing, junior Kim Kaegi and sophomore Jennifer Feeriey were the finalists selected, but in an open meeting requested by Director of Athletics Jo-Ann Nester, last Thursday, it was suggested that all six candidates be allowed to present a three-minute speech and answer questions posed by council mem­bers. 
As a result, junior Beth Kreber, sophomore Kris Pantelleria and freshman Rachel Bir were added to 
the  ballot  on  which  all  athletes  
present voted.  
Pantclleria,  in  her  speech,  

withdrew her name from considera­tion, however. 
Byrne opened last night's meeting by stating that each athlete would present her vote to her two team representatives who would each 
see CUSHING, page 11 

Thursday, May 2, 1985-page 16 
Irish reach .500 plateau with 7-1, 2-1 sweeping of Western Michigan 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports Writer 

It may sound strange if you have ever watched a ball game there, but right nowJake Kline Field is the hot­test place on campus. 
Larry Gallo's Notre Dame baseball team took out its broom yesterday at the friendly confines, sweeping visit­ing Western Michigan, 7-1 and 2-1. The Irish have now posted a torrid 12-2-1 mark in their last 1c; games, reaching the .c;oo plateau ( 23-23-2) for the first time since they were 4-4 midway through the spring trip. 
A pair of junior pitchers sparkled for the Irish yesterday to lead the Michigan. The Irish also took lbe nigbcap, which way. Brad Cross has been the hard­enabled them to reach the .500markfor the season. luck hurler on the Irish staff this Chuck Freeby bas details at right. year, pitching well enough to win several times, but usually drawing the loss or a no-decision. Yesterday, Cross fired a six-hitter in the opener 
cumstances. He's been tough. and today, even though he didn't feel that good, he got the job done." 
Cross may not have been well, but it was WeMern Michigan's bats that looked sick, as Cross induced the Broncos into 16 ground outs. The only run he gave up was on Kevin McNees' two-out double in the second. 
Notre Dame came roaring hack in the bottom half of that stanza, though, scoring four nms to give Cros~ all the help he would need. With two out and Mike McNeill on 
first, John Loughran singled to keep the inning alive. 'lben Bronco starter Joe Humphries ( 2-'i) went wild, walking Ken Soos and jackie Moran 
to tie the game at one. Rich Van­thournout followed with a two-RBI single to center to make it 3-1. After another free pass to Tom Shields, Mike Trudeau stroked another single to score Moran and give the Irish a 4-1 lead. 
Notre Dame tacked on a run in the third when David Clark's lead-off double was followed by singles by Loughran and Soos to make the score 'i-I. lbe Irish finished the of­fensive barrage in the fifth, when Loughran led offwith his third hit-a double into left-center. Soos' second consecutive RBI-single made it 6-l, before Steve Skupien blistered a double in the gap to score Soos and run the Irish lead to 7-1. 
Cross went the distance, striking out one and walking nobody. Despite his l-4 mark, the Royal Oak, Mich. native owns the third lowest ERA on the staff with a 5.09 mark after yesterday's outing. 
In the nightcap, the Irish jumped on top in the first with an unearned 
see SWEEP, page 13 
and is also concerned with the series of Saint Mary's coaches stepping down. 
"We'n: having qualified coaches not return because ofwhat seems to be a power-play going on in the ath­letic administration and the athletes are suffering for it. I'm really disap­pointed. I feel Dan worked well with the team. I feel like I've improved because ofhim," said Gisch. 
Junior co-captains for next year, Anne Cushing and Joyce Murtagh forsee a lack of continuity in next year's team. 
"The last three years I've had a 
see FLYNN, page 14 

been outdone by classmate Steve Powell, as the Buffalo, Wyo., righty pitched a masterful two-hitter en­route to his fifth victory in six deci­sions in the nightcap. Powell also had plenty of support, but this time it was from the defense which turned in quite a few plays that were nothing less than spectacular. 
Gallo believes that yesterday's games were just a sample of the kind of play that has sparked the tur­naround. "The last three weeks we've been getting great starting pitching, and that was the case today," noted the Irish mentor. "I'm really happy for Brad. He's only had one bad outing all year, and even then he was a victim of cir-
Gymnastics club has promise for the future after "rebuilding year'' 
Now that the school year is coming to an end, the gymnastics club finished the year with three tough meets: Purdue, School Craft, and Eastern Michigan. 
In the home meet against Purdue on Feb., 9, the gymnastics club defeated Purdue by five points. In that meet, Paul Nowak, a freshman, won the all­around title, while Matt Sennett, a sophomore, put in a strong performance in the vault with a score of7.6 and the high bar with a score of7.0. 
In their next meet against School Craft, a strong varsity team, on Feb. 16, the men lost by a slim mar­gin of five points, in which Nowak again won the all-around title with a score of3'i.2. Another positive spot in the meet was that the team as a whole scored a record-high 131 . 5 points. In their.final meet of the year, the men lost to another strong varsity team in Eastern Michigan, but were very impressed with Mike Downing's first all-around meet in which he scored a team-high 34 points. 
"Basically this year was a rebuilding year because we lost two men to the London program: next year's president Jim Ciesil, and Rich John," says Tim Sen­nett. "Along with Rich's gymnastic skills, he brings along alot of leadership skills." comments Tim Sen­nett. "Next year, the team should be real strong be· cause Paul Nowak will be a strongforce and with the emergence of Mike as an all-arounder, and the im­provement of hard-working Matt Sennett, the club should have plenty to build on for next year." 
The women's gymnastic club also had a good year and it had some very bright spots. 
In its meet against Purdue, junior Cheryl Sydow won the all-around title with a score of 29.4 and a record-high score on the vault. Other outstanding performances came from senior Dena Heisler, who scored an 8.3 on the floor and and 8.1 on the vault, freshman Jennifer Hoover, who received an 8.1 on 
Tom 
~ 
Yoon f:: =-y
-
Club Corner 

the balance beam, and Laurie Bcal, who also did well on the beam with a score of 7.1. 
"Cheryl should perform very well next year," says Sennett. "The only problem I foresee is that she is a very slow starter. lbe up and coming gymnasts of Jennifer and Lauric should also help out the team next year. Also, the women ofSaint Mary's, Maureen Durkin and Renee Conwell, will really help out the team with their specialized events." 
"lbroughout my four years," adds Sennett, "working with and coaching the 'family' has been very rewarding because the people arc great. Their future looks very bright and I wish them my best. We, the graduating seniors will definetly miss them all. Also. the team appreciates all the help Sandy Vanslager has given to the team amd thanks NVAand Saint Mary's for their facilities." 
WATER POLO: With the water polo season com­pleted in the fall, the team only had one tournament this spring in which it defeated Purdue, but lost to Northwestern. Mike Roberts led the team in scores and he and Steve Guenther were shared teams MVP honors. Marty Watts gained recognition by being the outstanding freshman. 
"I am looking forward to next year," says Tom O'Reilly, "because we will be returning most of the players: myself, John Coffey, Charlie Brady, Mike Roberts, and Steve Guenther. Also, with the building of the new pool, maybe our status as club will be upgraded to varsity, which is our main goal." 









